A hazy shade of win­
ter 
Colder and cloudy today with a high in the upper 40s. A chance of sprinkles or flurries toni ht with a low near 30. 
IACCENT: Miracle at Medugorje 

IVIEWPOINT: Theology and Science 


Students clean city, raise $2000 for relief 
By AMY HOWARD News Staff 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students took three hours from their schedules on Saturday to take part in the Fourth Annual Great Hunger Clean-Up. 
The Clean-Up is a national event that works toward community improvement and hunger relief. Volun­teers donate their time to clean up local sites and raise money for hunger relief through sponsors, said Liz Durkin, chairman of the event. 
This year, 100 cities throughout the nation partic­ipated in the event. 
Locally, 150 volunteers worked at 17 sites in South Bend, performing services that varied from painting, to chopping wood, to clearing debris out of abandoned lots, said Durkin, adding, "we even had a group of students who walked down Notre Dame A venue picking up trash." 
Volunteers raised at least $30 each, totaling over $2000, to be donated to domestic and international hunger relief, Durkin said. Half of 
see CLEAN, page 4 
•


654 s1gn 
By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
Concerned Saint Mary's stu­dents petitioned 12 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's officials last week in hopes of improving se­curity on the road that connects the campuses. 
Amy Carzoli, a Saint Mary's sophomore said she circulated a petition to let officials of both schools know students are con­cerned about a lack of security on the road. 
"I got the idea to do someth­ing because it struck me as odd that people are still being at­tacked even though a long per­iod of time has passed since the first rape years ago," Carzoli said. 
Carzoli, along with junior Caroline Piatak and sopho-

Sources: Israel killed official 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM--Israeli sources said Sunday that Is­raeli agents had assassinated PLO official Khalil al-Wazir, the No.2 man in the organiza­tion who headed the uprising in the occupied territories. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir declined comment. 
The sources said the opera­tion was carried out jointly by the Mossad intelligence ser­vice, the Israeli navy and an elite commando unit. They 

spoke  on  condition  of  
anonymity.  
They  said  it  had been  

postponed several times before Saturday. 
Al-Wazir, who was in charge of the PLO's military opera­tions against Israel, was shot to death Saturday at his home in the Tunis suburb of La 
Rustlers at camp 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI, Kenya--Rustlers armed with machetes and rifles raided nomad camps at dawn and killed 192 people and injured 50 in a remote part of northwestern Kenya, the gov­ernment said Sunday. 
The rustlers stole about 3,500 cattle, sheep, goats and donkeys, officials said. Forty of the 50 rustlers were captured and killed and about 3,000 animals were recovered. 
The sky over the massacre scene was black with vultures. Hyenas and other wild animals ravaged the bodies of the vic­tims, said the Sunday Nation, 



security 
more Kim Mahoney, sent a let­ter and a copy of the petition, signed by 654 Saint Mary's stu­dents, to the president and vice president of each school, the dean of students at Saint Mary's, vice president for stu­dent affairs at Notre Dame, student governments at each school, Saint Mary's Security, Saint Mary's Office of Student Activities, the Board of Regents at Saint Mary's and the Board of Trustees at Notre Dame, according to Carzoli. 
"We realize that the road is not under Saint Mary's juris­diction so we are petitioning the Saint Mary's officials mainly for support, because it is Notre Dame that will have to actually do something in terms of action to improve safety," she said. Sister Karol Jackowski, Saint 
Marsa by an eight-member squad. 
Palestine Liberation Organi­zation officials blamed Israel, saying the killing was designed to demoralize Palestinians and end PLO-directed protests in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
"I'm not ready to relate to these matters," Shamir told The Associated Press at his of­fice in Jerusalem when asked about reports Israel was be­hind the operation. 
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, co-leader of the coali­tion government, said in an in­terview on Israel radio that he hoped al-Wazir's assassination would not affect peace efforts. 
Apparently referring to al­

Wazir, he added: "we have to 
uproot violence as a ... factor 
see PLO, page 6 

kill 192 
•

1n Kenya 
an independent newspaper. 
Laban Kitele, a minister of state in the office of the presi­dent, said police tracked and killed about 40 of the 50 rustlers in a search aided by recent heavy rains in the district. The rest escaped across the border to Sudan. 
Kitele said in a statement that the attackers were a well­armed "terror gang" of Sudanese from the Toposas tribe and Ndongiros from Et­hiopia. 
The attackers hit 30 nomadic camps about 30 miles west of the border town of Lokichoggio 
see KENYA, page 7 



petition 
Mary's dean of student affairs set a date to meet with the three to discuss goals and possible administrative solutions, said Carzoli. 
The three hope to eventually hold an all-school meeting to of­fer student reports on progress and to hear ideas and student input, she added. 
Five basic proposals for im­proving security conditions have beep formulated by Car­zoli's group. 
Better lighting on the road, a 24 hour patrol car, security booths at each campus end, direct phone lines to Security on the road and better report­ing of the incidents when they occur to improve student awareness are positive steps 
see ROAD, page 5 
Monday, April 18, 1988
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Earth faces catastrophe unless developing nations stem rapid overpopulation, a population control group said Sunday. Over the next 10 years, the world will add another billion people, said the new report by the Population In­stitute. "Unless we wake up to the serious damage popu­lation pressures are doing to this planet, we will see a 21st century that could offer unprecedented catastrophic con­sequences," Werner Fornos, the group's president said Sunday. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Brown bag lunch, sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies, with Professor Alan Dowty of the government and international studies department will be held in Room 105 of the Law School. The topic will be "Israel and Democracy." -The Observer 
Big BrotherS'Big Sisters are having the Niland Award Presentation today at 4 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Awards will also be presented to all participat­ing seniors and attendance is mandatory. A regular meeting will be held afterwards. -The Observer 
Senior trip registration takes place today andTuesday in the West Point Room of LaFortune Student Center from 7 to 9 p.m. For details call Kathleen at 283-4220 or Theresa at 283-4071. -The Observer 
John Palmer, former assistant secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, will give a lecture titled "Beyond the Reagan Revolution: Reading National Priorities" today at 7:30p.m. in Room 122 Hayes­Healy. -The Observer 
A Biological Sciences Seminar titled "Spinal Cord Regeneration in Lower Vertebrates" will be given by Sidney Simpson of the University of Illinois-Chicago Tuesday at noon in the Galvin Life Science auditorium. 
-The Observer 
Those graduating in May that have obtained Student Loans must attend one of the two exit interviews: April 19 from 7 to 9 p.m. or April 21 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The John F. Donnely Program in Participatory Management within the College of Business Administra­tion will be inaugurated Tuesday. Activities include alec­ture by an Irish management consultant, Edmond Molloy, a specialist in organizational development from Tip­perary. -The Observer 
"A Republic Madam, If You Can Keep It," is the title of a lecture to be presented by Professor Forrest McDonald of the University of Alabama's department of history. The lecture, cosponsored by the department of history and the program of liberal studies, will be given on Wednesday at noon in Room 220 of the Law School. 
-The Observer 
Room picks for Siegfried and Knott Halls will be held on April20 at 6:30p.m. in the Office of Student Residences. A $20 hall tax is required to pick a room -The Observer 
Peace Corps Overseas Undergraduate Internship applications are available at the Center for Social Con­cerns, the Peace Institute and 101 O'Shaughnessy. Fresh­men, sophomores and juniors who are American citizens are eligible; candidates should have demonstrated interest in community service and potential to live and work over­seas. Fall, spring or summer placements are possible. For more information call 239-5142. -The Observer 
Summer Service Projects are still available. A $1200 scholarship will be awarded in return for eight weeks of service to the poor and needy in cities across the U.S. A few choice positions remain. For more information stop at the Center for Social Concerns or call 239-7867. -The Observer 

-Ihe-O.bse.~~or__ 
-------.L~Y~'-' --­
Design Editor ............. Melissa Warnke Sports Copy Editor ........ Greg Guffey 
Design Assistant .. ... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Layout .............. Kerri OWens 
Typesetters... ... Mike Buc Accent Copy Editor ...... Robyn Simmons 
............................... Jim Mercurio Accent Layout. ........... Annette Rowland News Editor ................. Chris Bednarski Photographer.. .............. Susi Hernandez Copy Editor.. . ............... Greg Lucas 
Tlloe Obeener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. "1M Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tille Obeener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
"1M Otleener is a member of "1M Aaodaled Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
'Part time' students need learning feeling 
You've seen them around. You might even know a few of them. They eat here, they sleep here, and according to the registrar, they go to school here. If not for this last fact, however, you might think they were "off-the-trail" tourists. 
Who are they? THEY are Notre Dame's ''part-time'' students. Not the official part-time students. Oh no. These students have full class schedules, pay tuition and occassionally, when they run out of shampoo, visit the Bookstore. 
You might have assumed they were an ex­tremist faction of second semester seniors. While the majority may be seniors, it is hardly limited to just seniors. In fact, I have come to believe these unique individuals have spent most of their school years perfecting this ''part­time" charade. It is evident to me from my experience with them that there are, in fact, two classes among them: the masters and their proteges. 
The masters are referred to as "the operators." They manipulate everyone and everything to keep up their game. Paper exten­tions and make-up tests are secured easily and generally place low on the list of priorities when making vacation plans. 
The proteges, otherwise known as "the wanna-bes," are less skilled in the techniques 
required to maintain the part-time role. They don't quite get away with it. 
You may wonder how I have become so well acquainted with this species of students. Well, the fact is, I live with two of them. 
They get up in the morning just in time to beat the crowd to the dining hall. In the after­noon they nap (they seem to have narcoleptic tendencies) or watch television, making sure someone keeps track of the soaps. They are closely related to the group known as couch potatoes. · 
Their evenings are spent in a variety of places: local gin mills, couches or beds. They can also be seen frequenting malls, airports, big cities . . . anywhere but a classroom or a library. They seem to have an aversion for, if not an actual phobia of these two places. 
Being in such close contact with them, you may wonder if I am not myself suspect of such 
M
WE"DLIKETO REMIND YOU THAT THE 
A UNCENSORED CONTENT 
T
OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY 
H 
THE CONSTITIJTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 1
THE CONSTITIJTION 
· fl1t \'1.\ 'rl.:; \\'<: h\'t· ~ 
0 
1 

Annette Rowland 

Assistant 
'

Production Manager '
A 


behavior. Well, there have been times when I thought I was falling into their ways. I have taken a few "mental holidays" as they call them, blowing off classes for a day or work for a weekend. For the most part, however, I have only been mildly affected. I have never taken a ten day "Easter Vigil" vacation in California or even thought about a six day "culture ap­preciationMardi Gras" vacation. 
Such are the ways of these people. They schedule all their classes on two days so they can have four-day weekends. For them there is no holiday, event or occasion not worth celebrating. 
So, what's my point? Let's just say I wanted to remind some pretty "remarkable" people that they've lost that "learning" feeling. And as the song says, "it's gone, gone, gone ... whoooa, whoa, whoa. 


A public serv1ce message lrom The Observer 



THE WALLETS 
LIVE 
Minnesota Music Awards 
Best Rock Band -'85 and Band of the Year -'84 
this Thursday night 9:30 at Theodore's 




LAST YEAR'S BIGGEST ATTRACTION IS BACK!! DON'T MISS IT! 



--~-­

Monday, April 18, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
Hijack standoff continues 
Associated Press Shortly before midnight Sun­released and additional hijack­
day, several Algerian police ers reportedly boarded the 
ALGIERS, Algeria--A pas­cars traveled to and from the plane. The jet then went toLar­senger aboard a hijacked plane. It could not be deter­naca, Cyprus, where the gun­Kuwait Airways jumbo jet said mined who was in the cars. The men killed two passengers and Sunday about 35 hostages on Kuwaiti delegation remained released 13. the plane faced certain death in an airport lounge well after On Tuesday night, it arrived if Kuwait refused to release 17 midnight. in Algiers and on Friday the convicted terrorists. It was the latest that the hijackers released an ailing
''All the passengers are in delegation had stayed at the hostage. good health. I hope the Kuwait airport since negotiations Algerian officials said Sun­government will act quickly to began, leading to speculation day that Palestine Liberation liberate the 17 young prisoners. the hijackers might make a Organization leader Yasser Otherwise we all face a black gesture connected with the Arafat was expected in Algiers end," said the man. He identi­Moslems' observance of but declined to say when he fied himself as Suleiman Far­Ramadan, the month-long per­would arrive or whether he han Doukhi. iod of fasting. Ramadan begins would play a role in the negotia­
Doukhi, who spoke Arabic in Monday. tions. a firm voice, also sent "greet­Since the Bangkok-to-Kuwait On the morning of the 13th ings to the Kuwait people, to flight was hijacked April 5, the day of the crisis, Algerian aut­my mother and father and to hijackers have demanded the horities abruptly expelled all those who miss me." release of the 17 extremists, hundreds of print and televi­
The message appeared to be jailed for bombing the U.S. and sion reporters from the section a recording. French embassies in Kuwait in of the VIP lounge where they 
On Friday, the hijackers December 1983. had been staying for nearly a brought two other passengers Kuwait has rejected the week. to the aircraft's radio to make demand. Reporters moved into tents, similar statements to the con­The plane, carrying 112 pas­erected by Algerian security trol tower and one on sengers, first landed in Iran, men, on the lawn near the Thursday. where 57 hostages were lounge. 
Contra talks balk over truce time 
Associated Press The U.S.-backed Contras are Despite the lack of agree­
insisting the Sandinistas must ment on a truce, a 60-day cease­verified have not been fully newspaper La Prensa said, "A 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua--rewrite the constitution and in­fire that started April 1 ap­worked out. permanent truce means the Negotiators for the leftist San­stitute democratic reforms peared to be holding Sunday, About 1,000 Sandinista sup­Sandinistas should be willing to dinista government and Contra before they sign any truce. The and neither side complained of porters rallied Saturday out­bury totalitarism and give up rebels were deadlocked Sun­Sandinistas are demanding any major incidents. side the U.S. Embassy in their ideal of ruling day over when a permanent that a permanent truce be Managua to protest American (Nicaragua) with a single truce in the six-year civil war signed first. The cease-fire, agreed upon support for the Contras and to party." should begin. Rebel spokesman Bosco March 23, calls for the rebels demand that leaders of the Con­"If they insist on a truce just 
But spokesmen for both sides Matamoros called the discus­to gather in seven cease-fire tra umbrella organization, the to dismember the Nicaraguan said they were not ready to quit sions "frank" and said he was zones. Nicaraguan Resistance, sign a Resistance, leaving intact the the high-level closed-door optimistic. Deputy Foreign But details of when they will permanent truce immediately. Sandinista's political-military talks, which began Friday Minister Victor Hugo Tinoco rally, how will they be resup­The demonstration was regime, then there will be no night and are the first held in called Saturday's meeting plied, wl)ether they will be al­peaceful and no arrests were peace or development not only the capital since the war began "productive" and added, "we lowed to keep their weapons, reported. in Nicaragua but throughout in November 1981. advanced quite a bit." and how this is going to be In an editorial, the opposition Central America. 


suggested retail price: $2499 
Special Student Price: $1399 

So readable the characters jump off the screen. More power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible operating system. Here's the Zenith Data Systems Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! And we can even put a spin on it ... 
NO\", the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great student J,»rice when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'U give you a fuU demon­stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from coUege to career! 
So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC ... our most powerful laptop yet. See soon! 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER CENTER COMPUTER-MATH BUILDING DEMO LAB 239-5600 

~,I ~fems 
THE OUAUTY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 

page 4 The Observer 


Doyle, Paese start work 
By JANET HEROLD 
News Staff 
Mter two weeks in office, Student Body President Tom Doyle and Vice President Mike Paese are getting down to busi­ness. 
Doyle and Paese have wasted no time in working to fulfill their campaign prom­ises. "We talked with (Director of Student Activities) Joe Cas­sidy and we've decided that we need 5 to 6,000 dollars to get a security guard so that possibly we can use some part of Lafor­tune as a 24-hour lounge," said Paese. 
"We are in the process of 
-budgeting for that right now, because it is something we promised and are going to do," Paese said. 
Doyle said he and Paese are pleased with the constitutional aspect of their offices. "We feel that what we've been given is a solid, workable constitution," he said. "What we would like to do is work within that framework, and hopefully be a little bit more outward looking ... to the student body, to some of the issues they feel need (to be) addressed." 

The student response to the student body president and vice president has been very positive since they have as­sumed office, Doyle and Paese both said. Student response was particularly helpful "when we were going through choos­ing the cabinet, we had a lot of people we knew before, and a lot of absolutely new people, and I think that's especially where Mike's and my enthusi­asm is coming from right now," Doyle said. 
Paese said he and Doyle have chosen "an incredible cabinet." Many former candi­dates, such as Ellen Nichols, Mike Keegan and Mary Berger, have been included in the cabinet, said Paese. 
"Our major shift in the cabinet is that we have a poli­tical concerns commissioner who is going to be working with the SUB on bringing in more speakers, and getting a debate series going, as well as various workings with the hall fellows program for national and inter­national issues," said Paese. 
"Given that we are the premier Catholic university in the country, we really should be out front on some of those (political) issues," Doyle said. 
Doyle and Paese said they have structured their student commissions to emphasize cul­tural as well as social concerns. "In August, all these commis­sions are going to be taking off ... imd there are going to be a lot of people that are needed (to work in the commissions),'' they said. 
To meet the needs of off­campus students, Doyle and Paese have established an off­campus commis~ioner and are "looking into working closer with off-campus (students) for off-campus crime." 
In the past two weeks, Doyle said he and Paese have had meetings with many adminis­trators. "Mostly what we have had to focus on is the response to the task forces," said Doyle. Doyle and Paese said they are pleased overall with the admin­istration's interaction with stu­dent government. "(University President) Father Malloy is uniquely interested in student activities," said Paese. 


Top theologians meet at ND 
By DAN MURPHY 
Staff Reporter 
Eight international top guns in theology met for a confer­ence on Gospel traditions this weekend at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
"I am impressed with the ex­traordinary array of scholars from all over the world that have been brought to the campus," said theology depar­tment chairman Father Rich­ard McBrien at the beginning of the conference. "I am im­mensely proud of this confer­ence," he said. 
The conference, titled "Gospel Traditions in the Second Century: Origins, Recensions, Texts and Trans­mission," addressed questions associated with the earliest 
.Clean 
continued from page 1 
the money raised was donated 
locally to the Hope Rescue Mis­
sion and to REAL Services. 
The Hope Rescue Mission is 
a non-profit organization that 
provides temporary shelter for 
the homeless and serves over form of Christian Gospels, said William Petersen, assistant professor of theology. "The issue is of fundamental impor­tance for studies in New Testa­ment and Church history, and also such fields as ethics and theology," Petersen said. 

Academians from England, the United States, Canada, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium gathered to give lec­tures, participate in panel dis­cussions and answer questions. 
University President Father Edward Malloy opened the con­ference by welcoming the panel and defining a theolo­gian. "It seems to me that the function of the theologian his­torically has been to take the experience of the faith commu­nity and make it available to successive generations," he said, "to do it with all the con­cepts and categories available and therefore provide a real service to the community of faith." 
"My own background is in Christian ethics, and there is a raging debate today about the ways in which the scriptual texts ought to inform the kinds of ethical claims that are made by those who take the Christian life seriously," Malloy said. 
He said the scholarship of the panelists is crucial to resolve the debate. "I hope that in your time here you will learn from each other and that you will make available through your common effort a greater range of resources from early Chris­tian sources for all of us in our work whatever our specialty might be" said Malloy. 

55,000 meals a month to the who sponsored the clean-up. Mishawaka community. REAL Communities in Zimbabwe Services provides meals to the will be taught to plant gardens elderly of South Bend. and will be provided with the 
The remaining portion of the supplies to do so, Durkin said. money was donated to interna­The clean-up also promotes tional hunger relief, said relations between students and Durkin. This money will be sent the South Bend community. to Zimbabwe through the Over­"The whole idea is that the stu­seas Development Network, a 1dents are out in the community service club at Notre Dame cleaning up," said Durkin. 
Monday, April 18, 1988 


The Observer I Susy Hernandez
Watch the ball 

A Notre Dame student engages herself in a relaxing Qame of paddle-ball. As finals approach, such outlets of tension often provide a welcomed way to unwind. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

is ~ou~ And that' sa grelat Plenty!! 
Continue to "let your littl~ light shine! 
u • s • c 


FOR THANKSGIVING 

PACKAGE INCLUDES: 
• 
Round Trip Air Fare 

• 
4 Nights in the Anaheim Marriott 

• 
Transportation to and from the game and a ticket to the game 

• 
N.D. parties at the hotel 

• 
etc. 



SIGN-UPS: MONDAY, APRIL 18 
I 
*Final payments will be due

Student Union Board Office 
when we return in the Fall. 

Haggar Student Center SMC 6:00-8:00 P.M. 
I 
TOTAL COST: 
$400.00 estimated 
$150.00 deposit up-front on the 18th 
OPTIONAL ACTIVITIES: 
(may require additional funds) 
• 
Disneyland 

• 
San Diego's Sea World 

• 
Universal Studios 

• 
Hollywood Movie Star's Homes 

• 
6 Flags Magic Mountain 

• 
etc. 





Monday, April 18, 1988 
The Observer 

SMC will offer new course 
By PATTY GREIPP and accounting. human resources in a News Staff The course will introduce growing company, will also students to the knowledge be taught. The course will 
A new course in women's and skills necessary for also focus on dealing with entrepreneurial training entrepreneurial success. lawyers, accountants and will be offered at Saint Sha·mon said the course is other professionals.Mary's next fall, said unique because students Shannon said 98 percent of William Shannon, associate who enroll will have the op­the 17 million U.S. busi­professor of business admin­portunity for a "mini" in­nesses are small businesses. istration and economics. ternship with the Small Shannon also said, 
The course, open to all Business Development "women are starting busi­Saint Mary's students, was Center in South Bend. nesses three times as fast as developed for students and The course will teach stu­men." alumnae seeking dents to prepare effective The course is the only entrepreneurial success, business plans, develop entrepreneurial course for Shannon said. marketing and sales plans, women at the college or uni­
Alumnae can enroll for undertake marketing re­versity level in the country, free, Shannon said. The search and implement sales according to the U.S. Gov­course has no required programs. ernment's Office of Wo­prerequisites, but Shannon Financing, understanding men's Business Ownership recommends a foundation in cash flow, using income of the Small Business Ad­marketing, management projections and managing ministration. 
SMC prof chosen for council 
By SUE O'CONNOR both the House of Represen­with the Hacienda Restau­News Staff tatives and the Senate to rants, Shannon said he can promote and recommend provide valuable insights to 
Saint Mary's professor legislation beneficial to his marketing students. He William Shannon was small businesses." said he believes he is able to named to the National Advi­Shanncn is the first Saint bring the academic world, sory Council for Small Busi­Mary's or Notre Dame pro­his first love, and the busi­ness Administration, said fessor to be appointed to the ness world together. Indiana Congressman John Council and the only wo­"Most members on the Hiler. men's college member on it, council are business per­
Shannon, associate profes­Hiler said. sons, not educators," Shan­sor of. business administra­As an educator at a wo­non said. tion and economics was the men's college, Shannon said "Professor Shannon will only Indiana resident named he feels he can add a unique bring to the Council a high 
Dame officials, according toto serve a four-year term on insight to the council. He degree of knowledge, expe­Carzoli.
Road

the council, said Hiler. said he believes few under­rience and profes­"We will call the Notre DameChairman and founder of stand the needs of women in sionalism," Hiler said. "His 
continued from page 1 

people soon to get an idea aboutthe Hacienda Mexican Res­small business. appointment will serve the that the group feels will ensure their input, but we expect thattaurant Chain, Shannon said "By the year 2000, one in cause of advancing the op­the security of students who they will respond even thoughhis duties on the Council will two small businesses will be portunities for small busi­walk on the road. it has not been Notre Dame stu­be to "work with the Small owned by women," he said. nesses throughout the The three students have not dents who have been at­Business Committees of Through his involvement country." 
received feedback from Notre tacked," Carzoli said. 





MAKE YOUR VOICE HEARD 
The students' response to the Task Force Reports: Times and Dates of students' response meetings 
DATE DORMS PLACE TIME 
4-18 Stanford I Farley I St. Ed Stanford 6:30 4-18' Grace Grace 9:00 4-19 PWIPE PW 6:30 4-19 Morrissey I Howard I Badin Morrissey 9:00 4-20 Alumni I Dillon Dillon 6:30 4-20 Walsh I Sorin I Cavanaugh Cavanaugh 9:00 4-21 Keenan I BPI Zahm Keenan 6:30 4-21 Fisher I Pangborn I Lyons Fisher 9:00 
• 

Task Force members will be there to answer questions. The dialogues from the meetings will effect policy decisions. 


BE THERE! 

.. .it's your chance to ask questions and express your opinion. • 
(Feel free to attend any of the meetings.) •• 


Monday, April 18, 1988
page 6 The Observer 


The Ob.§:E!rver I AP Photo PLO military commander Khalil ai-Wazir was killed early :saturday by a commando unit of seven men and one woman. AI-Wazir was killed in his house in the northern suburbs on Tunis. See story page 1. 
PLO 
continued from page 1 
that delays a political develop­ment. People who use violence will in the end see the limits of violence. It leads nowhere." 
The death toll from violence that swept the occupied lands after ai-Wazir's slaying rose to 
17. A 13-year-old boy and a 23­year-old man died Sunday from bullet wounds inflicted the day before, according to Palestin­ian sources. 
The Israeli military com­mand said the reports were being checked. 
Saturday's death toll was the worst in a single day since the Arab uprising began Dec. 8. At least 166 Palestinians and two Israelis have been killed. 
As PLO chief Yasser Arafat's No. 2 man, AI-Wazir---­supervised military operations in the territories occupied by Israel since the 1967 Middle East War. 
As main military planner for the PLO's mainstream Fatah, he was held responsible by Is­rael for a list of bloody terror attacks, including a bus hijack­ing last month in which three Israelis were killed. However, Israel has refrained from di­rectly addressing Palestinian 
Clarification 
A student's comment in The Observer on April 15 re­quires clarification. Mike Jaeger was misquoted in an article on the Mock National Convention. Jaeger actually said, "A Dukakis-Jackson ticket would be political suicide because these cam­paigns represent opposite ends of the spectrum in the Democratic party." 

charges and press reports saying it was behind al-Wazir's 
The Israeli-owned Itim news agency reported that the army declared all cities and towns and most of the highways in the occupied West Bank as closed military zones. 
An army spokesman said the military imposed a curfew on 22 refugee camps and villages in the occupied territories. He said the army also barred jour­nalists and non-residents from Anabta and from Nablus, the largest city in the West Bank with a population of 100,000. 
~) Michiana Chapter -Data Processing Management Assoc. 
~·~"'J 
invites you to their bigger and better than ever 1988 INFORMATION PROCESSING AND BUSINESS EXPOSITION 


-_ ­
I 

:  Free Tickets can be obtained  
S·-\  from participating Vendors  
Admission at the door  
-0~~~\  Adults $3.00  
(..  C'•  .  ..  ,·•J  Students $1.00  

YOU'LL HAVE A PREVIEW LOOK AT THE FUTURE IN: 
-Small Business Computers -Home Computers -Computer Display Terminals, 
Printers & Controllers -Word Processing Equipment -Dictating Equipment -Electronic Typewriters -Office Furniture & Supplies -Paper Shredders -Financial Management -Software for Micro Computers -Computer Power Supply Units -Temporary Services -COM Equipment -Electronic Cash Registers -Information Systems 
-Service Bureau Applications -Consulting Services 
Racial tensions 
Associated Press 
Recent protests by blacks at predominantly white univer­sities differed in their immedi­ate causes, but academic ob­servers say the incidents reflect increasing tensions. 
"There is such a rawness to race relations on campus now," Troy Duster, a professor of sociology at the University of California at Berkeley, said last week. 
"A lot of black students are feeling besieged and beleaguered. They feel that their fellow students and pro­fessors wonder why they are there in the first place," he said. 
Provocations for protests have run the gamut from an assault at the University of Massachusetts to verbal har­assment at Denison College in Ohio to a damaged bicycle in Berkeley. 
"In every single one of these instances, there has been some local incident or an accumula­tion of things ... the straw that broke the camel's back as it were," said Mary Frances Berry, a member of the U.S. 
Trapeze
Associated t"ress 
HIALEAH, Fla.--A trapeze artist fell to her death Sunday, hitting the floor of a circus tent headfirst before about 900 hor­rified spectators, police said. 
Belinda Amandis, 31, of Sarasota was performing alone without a net about 17 feet above center ring of Circus USA when she missed a maneu­ver, said police and circus owner David Mobbs. 
While swinging back and forth balancing on her back, she attempted to drop upside down and catch the bar with her knees, Mobbs said. Per­forming without using her hands, she missed the bar and fell. 
"She fell forward and she was trying to right herself up, 
-Fun Software -Modems -Computer & Word Processing Supplies -Microfilm Readers and Reader Printers -Calculators 
-Business Forms-Forms Handling Equipment 
-Printout Storage Equipment 
-Micro Graphic Products 
-Computer Repair Services 
-Main Frame Software 
-Educational Schools 
-Data Base Software 
-Data Recorders 
-Copiers 
-Consulting Services 
-Business Softwl'!re 
-Other Office Equipment 
commission on Civil Rights and Sigal professor of history at the University of Pennsylvania. 
"But if one looks generally, one sees that on these cam­puses you have the basic sort of reaction against the expan­sion of opportunity for blacks," she said. 
Although black college en­rollment has increased by about 25.000 between 1976 and 1986, according to the U.S. de­partment of Education, the proportion of blacks has declined from 9.6 percent to 8.8 percent of the national student body. Whites accounted for 79 percent of the students in 1986, down from 82 percent in 1976. 
Charles Willie, professor of education and urban affairs at Harvard University, said the protests are based on a sense of despair about the Reagan ad­ministration's commitment to securing equal opportunities. 
"The sense of abandonment leads to a sense of despair, and then there is a tendency to strike out at all kinds of harm, instead of accommodating," he said. "Where there is a sense of despair, the level of tolera­tion is certainly reduced." 
artist dies and by doing that she fell right on the side of her face. She wasn't that high up. She just hit the wrong way," said Tom Koenig, 40, of Hialeah, who was at the show with his two children. His wife, Annie Koenig, said, "At the second she fell, everybody was silent. Everybody thought it was part of the act. Then we realized what had happened." Spectator Carol Johnson of Coral Gables said, "I saw it whenithappened.ljustturned my head and said, 'Oh my God. She fell."' "The crew wanted to go on with the show in her memory," Mobbs said, but the perfor­mance was immediately ended because police evacuated the audience. Amandis was the 

r1s1ng 
Last week, Denison Univer­sity banished two white stu­dents from its Granville, Ohio, campus for the remainder of the academic year for harass­ing a black student. 
The students had been found guilty of harassing Aaron Laramore, a black senior, by pounding on the wall of his dor­mitory room and yelling racial epithets. 
In other recent incidents: 
-In Durham, N.C., about 300 people staged a protest FJ;.iday at Duke University, saying there were not enough black faculty members and calling the prestigious school a "racist institution." Joseph Di Bona, an associate professor in the education department, said the shortage of black faculty mem­bers means that blacks at Duke lead "disembodied lives." 
-About 100 students marched to City Hall in Lexington, Ky., on April 8 to protest a racial epithet used by A.B. "Happy" Chandler, the former governor and baseball commissioner who is now a member of the University of Kentucky's Board of Trustees. 
I

1n fall 
first act after an intermission. 
Mobbs described the solo trapeze act as perhaps the hardest in the circus because there is no one else to rely on. 
"She was one of the best in the business. She preferred not to work with a net. She felt it limited her," he said. 
Ringmaster Roy Houston said, "I watched the whole thing. I've seen a lot of them in this business. It's part of the risk that you take." 
Amandis, a native of Den­mark, had performed with several circuses and was respected as one of the world's best trapeze artist, Mobbs said. 
Belinda Amandis was the performer's stage name, police Sgt. Jorge Hierro said, and she also was known as Belinda Nielsen Visingard. 
Monday, April 18, 1988 
The Observer 

page 7 
NV primary close as accusations fly 
Associated Press pick up support at the expense 
of Dukakis. 
NEW YORK--Jesse Jackson The survey questioned 502 on Sunday accused his Demo­likely Democratic voters and cratic presidential opponents had a margin of error of 4.5 of inconsistent policies toward percentage points. South Africa as the New York Just how many voters go to primary contest moved into its the polls on Tuesday may be final hours with a flurry of eth­the crucial factor, some obser­nic campaigning. vers said. 
With a new poll saying the "The race is getting closer race for New York's 255 Dem­and turnout is the key," New ocratic convention delegates is York pollster Lee Miringoff, tightening, Jackson, Michael head of Marist College's In­Dukakis and Albert Gore Jr. stitute for Public Opinion, said aired differences over policy Sunday. toward South Africa and the A low turnout will favor Jack­Middle East, as well funding son, said Miringoff, because of for combating drugs. the candidate's near unani­
mous and highly committed 
The candidates also vowed to support among New York's work for party unity, regard­black voters, who generally less of who wins the Demo­make up about 25 percent of the cratic presidential nomination. vote in New York's Democratic 
"It's Too Close To Call," primaries. proclaimed the New York Daily News in a front-page In a telephone interview with headline Sunday as it released The Associated Press, New the findings of its latest poll. York Gov. Mario Cuomo said 
The overall poll numbers, he thought there could be a low based on responses from turnout for the primary. He Democrats questioned Monday also said he "wouldn't be through Thursday, had surprised" by a Jackson vic­Dukakis in front of Jackson, 51 tory. percent to 37 percent, with Meanwhile, Dukakis Gore trailing at 10 percent. defeated Jackson by a 3-2 mar­
However, the Daily News re­gin in Arizona's Democratic ported that in the final two days presidential caucuses Satur­of polling, Gore had begun to day night. 
IF YOU ARE GRADUATING MAY 1988•.. IF YOU HAVE OBTAINED STUDENT LOANS••• 
It will be necessary for you to attend (federal regulation) one of two exit interviews: April 19, 1988 7:00 to 9:00 PM 
April 21, 1988 7:00 to 9:00 PM at Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 
Security Beat 

in the B2 lot sometime between signs from the dorm's courtyard some­Friday, April 15 6:30a.m. and 3 p.m. on April 13. time after midnight on April 15. 
5:05 p.m. A Howard Hall resident 10:30 p.m.a set of keys was found 
5:35 a.m. A Security Officer on reported losing her lD case and contents on Stepan Basketball Courts and routine patrol discovered a vandalized in the CJ or Dl lot sometime between turned in to Security. vehicle parked in the D2 lot and noti­I and 4 p.m. The loss is valued at $50. II :45 p.m. A Pasquerilla West fied the owner. 5:25 p.m. A resident of Keenan resident reported that her car was van­
10:04 a.m. A Notre Dame em­Hall reported the theft of his backpack dalized while it was parked in the D2 ployee reported the theft of a phone and contents from his car that was lot sometime between 6 p.m. on April from the Decio Faculty Building parked in the D2 lot sometime between 13 and 9 p.m. on April 16. sometime around 9 a.m. The loss is 6 p.m. on April 10 and 2:30p.m. on 7:23 p.m. Security responded to a estimated at $60. April II. His loss is estimated at $40. disturbance involving four Grace Hall 
9:59 a.m. A University employee 6:12 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident residents in the Stepan parking Jot. reported the theft of a faculty hang tag reported that someone had scratched tire from his unlocked vehicle that was paint along the entire length of the parked in the B2 lot sometime between passenger side of his car that was 
8:15 a.m. and 5:30p.m. on April 14. parked in the Dl lot sometime between Sunday, April 17 

1:10 p.m. A Notre Dame em­3 p.m. on April 12 and 5 p.m. on ployee reported the theft of his gym April15. 3:50 a.m. A South Bend resident bag and contents from outside the Golf reported that his car was vandalized Pro Shop in the Rockne Memorial while it was parked in the Cl lot Building sometime around I p.m. on sometime around I a.m. Aprill3. Saturday, April 16 10:45 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident 
2 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh resident reported that he lost his ID Hall reported that someone had 9:25 a.m. Security responded to a case and contents on the Courtney Lane smashed his rear window and attempted minor two vehicle accident in the BI Tennis Courts sometime between to remove his CB radio. This occurred , lot. Damage was minimal and there 10:45 a.m. and II :30 a.m. in the D2 lot sometime between 4 a.m. were no injuries 2:25 p.m. Security assisted the on April 12 and I p.m. on April 15. 12:45 p.m Security responded to a Notre Dame Fire Department in extin­Damage is estimated at $75. telephoned bomb threat at Stepan guishing a small brush fire on the 
2:05 p.m. A Niles, Michigan resi­Chemistry Building.. North side of the Burke Memorial Golf 
dent reported the theft of several checks 2:26 p.m. A resident of St. Ed­Course. Damage was minimal and the from her locked vehicle that was parked ward's Hall reported the theft of four cause is unknown at this time. 
Judges set for Nazi verdict 
Associated Press tionally charged testimony Cleveland, Ohio, is charged from Holocaust survivors, doc­with operating gas chambers 
JERUSALEM--John Demjan­uments experts and the suspect that killed 850,000 Jews at the juk, who has spent the past 11 himself. Treblinka death camp in Nazi­years fighting charges he was Holocaust mastermind Adolf occupied Poland in 1942 and the notorious Nazi death camp Eichmann, the only other Nazi 1943. guard "Ivan the Terrible," war criminal to be tried in Is­faces a verdict Monday in his rael, was convicted and hanged But few Israelis doubt the 14-month-long court battle in in 1962. Unlike Eichmann, judges will hand in a guilty ver­Israel. Demjanjuk has insisted he is dict. For them, the only ques­
The three-judge panel's 450-an innocent victim of mistaken tion is whether the Ukrainian­page judgment is based on identity. born Demjanjuk, 68, will be more than 15,000 pages of emo-The retired autoworker from spared the death penalty. 
ders of Ethiopia, Sudan and side still harboring ideas of rus­Uganda. tling to desist . . . . Govern­
Kenya 

Police recovered 3,000 of ment response to rustling will continued from page 1 about 3,500 animals stolen by always be prompt and aggres­the rustlers, Kitele said. sive hot pursuit." 
on Wednesday. The semi-arid In the latest incident,district, whose mountains and On March 30, rustlers hacked rustlers struck at 6 a.m. and rugged valleys make it inac­15 nomads to death in northern killed men, women and cessible by car, is near the bor-Kenya and stole 2,000 goats. children with crude machetes 
and automatic and semi­
"Rustlers have lost all automatic rifles, Mohamed respect for human life to the Yusuf Haji, the Rift Valley extent that they will massacre provincial commissioner, told human beings in cold blood," the Sunday Nation. The news­Kitele said. "I wish to warn paper had chartered a plane to anybody within Kenya or out-the area. 
ATTENTION CLASS OF 1989: 
Senior Class Trip Signups Mon. & Tues., April 18 & 19, 7-9 p.m. West Point Room, La Fortune 

• 
Destination: NASSAU!!! 
The $498 trip includes all air and land accomodations $150 required at registration 
and there will be no registration next semester. 

*DON'T MISS OUT ON THE FUN­THERE'S ONLY ONE SENIOR TRIP* 



-----------~--­
Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, April 18, 1988 
P.O. Box Q 

Theology's 'laws' can be reversed 
Dear Editor: 

In his April7 Viewpoint column "Best theological route is orthodox," Notre Dame graduate John Regalbuto con­tends that just as the worlds of science and engineering have unchangeable laws which establish the parameters of useful inquiry (he cites the second law of thermodynamics as an example), so should the world of theology conduct its inquiries within the boundaries of its "laws," which Regalbuto equates with the teachings of the Pope (thus exclud­ing theologians who disagree with the pope's teaching). He writes: "It makes sense that those areas taught consis­tently over a long period of time can only be clarified and extended, and never reversed." I suggest that such an attitude will render both science and theology stale and meaningless. 
In science, the theory that the earth was the center of the universe was "taught consistently over a long period of time" (considerably longer than the second law of thermodynamics). For­tunately, Copernicus was willing to step outside of the accepted "laws" of his time, reverse them and free us from the error that such self-centered think­ing creates. The laws of Newtonian physics, taught consistently for three centuries, are now being successfully questioned by those reaching beyond even Einstein's genius to new paradigms by which to model the uni­verse (see Gary Zukav). 
In theology, the creation myths of 
Genesis were held for centuries (even 
by the popes) to be facutal accounts of 
the creation process. Today, only the 
most narrow-minded of biblical fun­
damentalists deny the majesty of God's 
plan of taking billions of years of evolu­
tion to unfold the wonders of creation. 
And let us not forget the Catholic 
Church's persecution of Galileo for his adherence to the above-mentioned Copernican school of thought; the world of science is not the only one that can be rightly accused of being closed­minded and self-centered in its clinging to a world view that was "taught con­sistently over a long period of time." 
Mr. Regalbuto identifies himself as a Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago. As a student, I would refrain from taking a class taught by someone whose scope of inquiry and vision are so lim­ited. For me, the excitement and beauty of science lies in its willingness to continually let go of old images, turn the status quo upside dowm, and open up new ways of understanding the uni­verse. I also wonder: "Did Notre Dame's graduate school challenge Mr. Regalbuto's attitudes while he was here, or peroetuate them? ... " 
As a theologian, I am inclined to com­pare Mr. Regalbuto's attitude to that of the third servant in Jesus' parable of the talents (Mt. 25: 14-30). In both cases, their attitudes show nothing less than a lack of faith --faith in the trust God as in us. The parable teaches us that we are trusted by God with our "talents" --whether those talents are scientific discoveries or theological in­sights. As Matthew Fox writes in "Original Blessing," "We are here to expand our gifts, and not, out of fear, to bury them." Burying the quest of truth in the stagnant holes of scientific "laws" or theological "dogmas" betrays the love of our God, who (again in Fox's words) "encourages the ever­expanding possibilities of ourselves and the universe." 
Dan Keusal 
Off-campus 
April 8, 1988 
SMC workers cite student rudeness 
Dear Editor: 
Having been brought up in a Christ­ian atmosphere, we have come to ex­pect those around us who have also shared a Christian, if not Catholic, background to have somewhat of the same values and principles. Nonethe­less, as many others here have realized, we were more than a little on the naive side. 
Our experience as student managers for the past year at Saint Mary's dining hall has been a great teacher. We have encountered thoughtlessness, greedi­ness, and rudeness to an amazing degree. Seeing girls call others names over cookies was a shock to our systems--not to mention having to take two hours to clean up tables after every weekday lunch because of the trays and trash left on the tables. We understand having to leave for a class, but a bit of common courtesy would go a long way. 
Those individuals who work at the dining hall from student worker to top management work hard and deserve more respect than they are receiving. This has been ignored for a long time because of the fear that we may be overreacting. An incident (Tuesday, Mar. 29) pushed us beyond our limits to the realization that the per­vasive attitude of superiority has gotten out of hand. Yelling obscenities at a full-time employee because she is fol­lowing the policies of the dining hall is uncalled for and is something that can­not be overlooked. However we were amazed and humiliated that this em­ployee took the incident in stride be­cause it has become common practice. If we are such Christian-oriented stu­dents, why then is such rude and demeaning behavior to be tolerated and even expected? We are not asking for people to withdraw criticisms of the food service. What we are asking for, though, is for you to realize that the employees of Marriott Corp. here at Saint Mary's are people who work hard every day to feed you and honestly care 
about what they are doing for you. What we are also asking for is for all of you to care about what you are doing to them. 

Carol Hunter Monica Badar Mary Dodd Brenda Kross Judy Hayes Michelle Gund KeH!• Igoe Saint Mary's College April 5, 1988 
Cash incentive is the issue 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Molly Jason's letter in the Apr. 7 edition of The Observer regarding my article on the morality of Crime Stoppers. 
The point I made there was that there are serious objections to a program of crime prevention that depends on mon­etary incentives. Contrary to what Ms. Jason seems to think, I am not against the implementation of a program like Crime Stoppers. In fact I am totally in favor of the implementation of a pro­gram to fight crime on campus after the model of Crime Stoppers although without the monetary incentives. 
I do not think, as Ms. Jason suggests, that Notre Dame students "are only looking for a quick buck." In fact, it is precisely because I don't that I believe as strongly as I do that a program with­out monetary incentives would be suc­cessful on our campus. 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Charity requires more than alleviating misery. It de­mands genuine love for the person in need. It should probe the meaning of suf­fering and provoke a response that seeks t o remedy causes." 
Bishops' Pastoral Letter "Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy" 
Ihe Observer Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..................... ................ Chris Murphy Business Manager ......... , .................... John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coc-cia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller............... . .... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager. . ............... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 

is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

...:
Accent

Monday, April 18, 1988 page 9 
ND basketball team finds a miracle in Yugoslavia 
MARIA JUKIC accent writer 

W
ho could have guessed that a small agricultural village in the mountains of Bosnia and Hercegovina, Yugoslavia would be the sight of massive pilgrimages from people the world over? Medugorje, which means between the mountains, Is the site of daily apparitions of the Virgin Mary by a group of village children. Mary began appearing to the youths in the summer of 
1981. Since then, hundreds of thousands of people have 
flocked to Medugorje in search of God or themselves. Among these pilgrims are many students from Notre Dame, including the basketball team and myself. 
Our Lady has been appearing every day to a group of Croatian village children for seven years now. The apparitions occur In a room in the parish rectory. Only the children see the Virgin. But people praying with them in the room see a transformation of sorts in the seers themselves. 
Before the apparitions, the children stand and pray. 
Suddenly, they stop praying and drop to their knees in 
unison. Their eyes are focused unblinkingly, on a fixed 
spot in the air. The children begin speaking to the Virgin. 
Their mouths move, but no sound is heard. When the 
vision Is over, they stand up again and proceed to Mass. 
Through my own personal experience at Medugorje, the 
thing that made the most Impact on me was the lack of 
conception of time. I usually have a very hard time staying 
In a church for even an hour. I have this tendency to leave 
or to faint, whichever comes first. In Medugorje, however, 
I was in the church for three hours, standing! It had felt 
Ilk~ twenty m i nutes. I could not believe that I had not 
even been conscious of the time. 
The Notre Dame basketball team had similar experi· 
ences as well. The basketball team visited Medugorje In 
the summer of I987. They related their experiences at a 
presentation about Medugorje last week. Coach Digger 
Phelps commented on having no conception of time, as 
did players Joe Fredrick. David Rivers, and Scott Paddock. 
Fredrick and Rivers noticed that as the apparition was 
occurring in the rectory, everything was dead 
silent, including the birds. Both players said that they had 
made a note of the loud cheerful chirping of the birds. 
Suddenly, as the vision was taking place, there was 
complete silence. 
All three had experiences with the sun. They all com­
mented on how they observed the sun spinning. It was 
simply not the normal sun. They were able to look at It for 
an extended period of time without any discomfort to their 
eyes. 
For all the skeptics out there, how can this be a hoax? It 
can not. What kind of incentive could lure a 1 0-year-old 
boy to give up two hours of his day, every day, for seven 
years?! How can miraculous healings be explained? Why 
are people not blinded by staring at the sun for minutes 
at a time? And why do people continue to flock to a tiny 
Croatian village from such faraway places as Australia, 
United States, and Great Britain? 
Something is happening here, and It cannot be denied. 
But what is the message Mary Is giving to the world? Her 
main call is peace. All she asks Is for prayer, repentance, 
and fasting. She is asking people to return to God and 
renew their faith. 
Soap update
J.R. 

All My Children: Palmer advised Silver to keep quiet about faking the rape. Adam admitted Skye's role In the arson plot to Brooke, but watched over the comatose Skye. Doug Lambert was found shot dead. A drunken Tom romanced Barbara. Coming: Matt goes undercover. As The World Turns: Paul hid his dismay over Barbara and Hal's engagement. Pam and Beau made love. Sabrina returned to England when Seth wouldn't for­give her. Barbara decided to start a new business and ruin "Simply Barbara." Coming: Beau Is torn by his feelings. Another World: Vicky inherited almost all of Reg's estate. Jason was bequeathed a l9ve letter from Elizabeth. Scott gave his In­heritance to AIDS research. Mary received a drunken pass from Jason. After a fight with Lisa about Vicky, Jamie moved in with 
anticipates 
Jason. Coming: Matthew is put on the' spot. Dallas: J. R. triumphantly prepared to assume control of Weststar. Nicholas revealed his whereabouts to Sue Ellen. Laurel divulged J.R.'s sexual blackmail plot to Clayton. Coming: Clayton seeks revenge. 
Days of Our Lives: Diana 
deceived Roman and Kiriakis by 
stealing the icon. Justin testified 
about organized crime. Eve 
learned she would be scarred for 
life. Jack used Melissa as an alibi 
when he was named a Slasher 
suspect. Coming: Jack escalates 
his vendetta. 
Falcon Crest: Vickie returned home alone, while Eric ,con­ducted business with Madame Malec. Carly saved Dan's life. An­gela tried to reunite Lance and Melissa. Richard got into trouble with the government. Coming: 
New series 
'Day by Day' provides laughs on Sunday nights 
JOE BUCOLO accent writer 
S
everal years ago NBC intro­duced America to the Keatons, a family full of love, companionship, and Alex. Ever since then, "Family Ties" has been a success around which people arrange their evening schedules. Now the creators of "Family Ties" introduce the Harpers of "Day by Day," a family that's sure to take enter­tainment and wit one step further. 
NBC airs its new hit comedy "Day by Day" on Sundays at 
8:30 right after the Keatons. The show centers around Brian recently quit his job to be· home, and his wife Kate (Linda Kelsey) who turn their living room into a day care center each and every weekday. By the time their son Ross (C. B. Barnes) has swallowed the last sloppy piece of Citrus Surprise (his own breakfast creation consisting of bread soaked in orange juice), the house is full of toddlers (one of which is their own baby girl) who are eager to learn--and even teach­-a few lessons. Kristen (Courteney Thorne-Smith) helps the Harpers and is the victim of Ross' teenage emotions. An­other series regular is Eileen Swift (Julia Louise-Dreyfuss), 
Brian's ex-business associate. 

The show's plots are clever and fresh, but not without a socially relevant point. Behind the alphabet blocks and the crayons is a running theme 
concerning Brian's attempt to rebuild his relationship with Ross. Brian feels guilty for working through Ross' chi~­hood and missing his early stages of growth. Now Brian attempts to make up for lost time, much to Ross' chagrin; he wants to spend time with his friends. 
The performances on the show are nothing to shake a rattle at. Douglas Sheehan, formerly of "Knots Landing," makes the switch from drama to comedy brilliantly. Linda Kelsey's aura of compassion and concern for the family is quite realistic. Courteney Thorne-Smith mixes intelli­gence and good looks to create the lovable psychology major she plays while C. B. Barnes portrays a carefree, hormone­driven teen. Ex-"Saturday Night Live" star Julia Louise-Dreyfuss steals the show with her zany, sarcastic portrayal of a woman who loves kids as much as they love cod liver oil. 
Most importantly, "Day by Day" is funny. While reading about Little Red Riding Hood walking through the forest alone, Eileen adds, "REAL smart." Kate asks the children If they've ever had anyone sleep over at their homes and one child replies, "My Uncle Sam does. He's not really my uncle, but my mother tells me to call him that. He sleeps in Mom's room." When Brian dis­tracts all the girls' attention from the guys at one of Ross' parties, Ross tells Brian, "Maybe the girls do (like Brian) 
but my friends are about to form a posse." 
"Day by Day" is a witty, clever situation comedy worth watching. The premise is new and more important. it works. The performances by the main stars and of the toddlers are excellent and the writing is su­perb. If only all sitcoms could be like this... 
takeover of Weststar on 'Dallas' 
Richard remains under suspicion. General Hospital: Colton made light of Melissa's. interest in him. Sean and Tiffany announced their engagement. Bobbie and Scott went public with their affair. Anna found Olivia in Duke's arms. Coming: Lucy and Tony's marriage crumbles. Guiding Light: Sonni decided against abortion. Sonni learned of Will's plot to kill Josh and make it look like suicide. Nicky's book disappeared after Ross got permission to use it as evidence. Phillip finagled Alan into sending him to South America. Coming: Rusty gets another chance. Knots Landing: Olivia was dis­covered unconscious following a drug overdose. Frank uncovered incriminating evidence against Manny at Lotus Point. Jill upped the ante in her plot to deceive Val. Coming: A brush with death. 
Loving: Soon after meeting young video producer Jeff Hartman, Gwyn gave into her at­traction and made love with him. Jack disliked Stacey leaving J.J. with a sitter while she worked. Kate learned Clay's true identity. Coming: Stacey's job causes more problems. 
One Life To Live: Asa fumed upon learning that Cord was back with Tina. Donald got a death threat. Mari-Lynn's evidence against Donald wasn't allowed in court. Blaze escaped from white slavers and found herself in a 20th century mental 
institution in Arizona where she met Melinda. Coming: Viki toug­hens up. Ryan's Hope: Lizzie broke up with 
Ben and moved back with the Ryans after finding Ben in bed with Nancy. Roger figured out why Ben seduced Nancy. Ryan 
and Mark encountered problems selling their movie Idea. Coming: Lizzie starts over again. 

Santa Barbara: Cruz rescued Chip from Wilma. Pamela pursued C. C. after he and Sophia filed for divorce. Keith rescued Gina from phony monks. Cruz stopped C.C. from demolishing the boathouse, while Keith and Gina snooped for the remains of Hal Clark. Coming: Fresh wounds from an old murder. 
The Young f:lt The Restless: 
Leanna was unable to get Victor's office keys. Nina and the baby moved back to Kay's, only to learn that Phillip was living with Jill. Sharon asked Nathan to be a nude model. Ashley solved the formula problem, and Jack bought out Marc. Coming: Leanna tries again. 
1988, McNaught Synd. 
-~--~ 

Monday, April 18, 1988 
page 10 The Observer 
Caps hOpe to shed label
Sports Briefs 
Associated Press better rested than the Capitals Stevens said. "They have a 
The Innertube Water Polo tournament is taking any applications for teams who did not sign up during the regular registration period. Call Barb at 289-5920. -The Observer 
The ND hockey team held its banquet Saturday night at the Monogram Club. Brian Montgomery and Matt Hanzel were named captains for next season, Mike McNeill won the most valuable player award, Bob Herber was named most improved, Pat Foley won the best defen­seman award, Rob Bankoske was named rookie of the year and John Welsch won both the St. Joseph County Notre Dame club award and the best defensive forward award. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will have a meeting to elect officers for next year on Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any questions should be directed to Marty Watts at 288-8732. -The Observer 
Chris Dauer shot a hole-in-one at the sixth hole of Burke Memorial Golf Course on Saturday. The hole-in-one was hit in a Flanner scramble golf tournament, and wit­nesses were Joe Montalbano, John Muellerleile and Mike Pleva. -The Observer 
The ND golf team placed 22nd out of 23 teams in the Kepler Intercollegiates last weekend at Columbus, Ohio. Further details will appear in tomorrow's issue of The Observer. -The Observer 
The ND women's basketball team signed Comalita Haysbert, a 6-foot swing player from Baltimore, and Jen­nifer Tranel, a 6'2" forward afron Billings, Mont., to letters of intent. Margaret Nowlin, :l 6'1" forward from St. Paul, Minn., and Deb Fitzgerald, a 5'11" guard afrom Watertown, Wis., already had signed with Notre Dame. 
-Associated Press 
The Washington Capitals used to be called chokers. If they win their next playoff se­ries, they'll be known by an­other title, that being the Patrick Division champions. 
The Capitals open their best­of-seven series against the New Jersey Devils Monday night at the Capital Centre in Landover, Md. Washington advanced to the divisional final Saturday with a 5-4 overtime victory over Philadelphia in Game 7 of their opening-round series. 
The Capitals, who had been haunted by past playoff fail­ures, became only the fifth team in NHL history to over­come a 3-1 deficit in the playoffs. 
"We've taken that choke label and I think put in on the shelf for quite a while," right wing Mike Gartner said. "We pulled together as a team and we showed just the type of character we always felt we had." 
The Adams Division final also opens Monday night, vrith Montreal hosting Boston. On Tuesday night, it's St. Louis at Detroit in the Norris and Ed­monton at Calgary in the Smythe. 
The Devils, who closed out their opening-round series against the New York Islanders Thursday, will be in Game 1. 
"It's silly that we didn't have another day off," Washington Coach Bryan Murray said. "I think it is a disadvantage. It's not bad if both teams go to seven. I will have to make some lineup changes to give some guys a rest." 
But Gartner said he doesn't think it will make a difference. 
"We don't feel tired at all right now," he said. "We're on an emotional high. Everybody feels pretty good. We played four lines throughout the series and we're pretty fresh right now." 
Although the Capitals cap­tured the season series 5-2, the Devils won the last two games, including their first victory ever at the Capital Centre. 
"We need to put pressure on their defense, forecheck them, try to cancel some of their speed," Washington defen­seman Rod Langway said. "The whole division is so close, it's going to be another tough series." 
The Devils' high-scoring line of Pat Verbeek, Kirk Muller and Aaron Broten was kept in check by the Islanders, but Washington defenseman Scott Stevens said the line is "one of the best in hockey." 
"We have to be careful, but we have enough talent to win," great goaltender (Sean Burke) and they're playing very well right now." 

If history is any guide, the Canadiens will beat the Bruins in the Adams final. The last 18 times the teams have met in the playoffs, Montreal has won the series. In three of the last four, the Bruins have failed to win a game. 
But Boston enters the series in better physical shape than the Canadiens, who must play Game 1 without left wing Mats Naslund and center Shayne Corson, who are out with strained knee ligaments. Montreal left wing Bob Gainey is bothered by a tender ankle, but he is expected to play Mon­day night. 
Despite the injuries, Naslund said the Canadiens are relaxed going into the series. 
"I don't think there's as much pressure when you're playing in the second round," he said. "I mean, if you lose in the first round, it's a farce. Your whole season is gone. If you lose in the second round, at least you know you got past the first round." 
Detroit and St. Louis have met only once before in the NHL playoffs, with the Blues winning that 1984 series. Detroit won the regular-season series this year 4-1-3. 
n.~Not~ Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, eccepta clualfled .s-tlling from 10 Lm. untll4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The 0....Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent8f, eccepta claaalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne tor next-day claaalfleds Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
Classifieds be pn!p8kl, either In person OJ by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five chanctera per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Professors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to make an appointment. 1 0·5:30 7 day&Week 
CALL 237·1849 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
WOADePLUS Scholastic Typin¢'diting Rush Jobs OK 256-3077 
LOST/FOUND I 
help! lost a brown wallet with initials FJD, contained 10, driver's liscence, and photos. It was lost somewhere between North dining hall and the Engineering li­brary. Please call Francis al283-1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall if found. REWARDIll!!!! 
LOST: One jeans jacket.! wouldn't care il you kept it il not for my keys being in the pocket. It was left in 101 Hurley after lhe 10:10 class on Wed. 4113. My name is in the coat so give me a call at x2003. 
FOUND: 3 X 6 IN. LT. BROWN AD­DRESS BOOK WITH ALPHABETIZED TABS. NO OWNERS NAME. FOUND BEHIND FACULTY LOT ACROSS FROM BRARE. CLAIM AT LOST & FOUND IN LIBRARY. 
FOR RENT 
2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 288-095&255-3684 
NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
GREAT STUDIO SUBLET !! Spacious, wall-to-wall carpeting, new krtchen. Avail­able May 15. Pertect for grad. student or prof. Quiet location, wllaundry facilities, etc. Call 289-7709. 
STUDIO APARTMENT TURTLE CREEK $339-MONTH CALL 277-4842 
···················-··--­
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER RENT CALL 283-1606 ERIC 

summer rental beautiful, large 1 bedroom apt. in house wtiver view. 1 mile from campus fur~ nished, safe neighborhood, fenced yard. 289-2527 
Lg. apt near Leeper Park. 288-2821. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914 3814224 
FOR SALE 
IBM PO?<T Model 086 1OMb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
TYPEWRITER-WORD PROCESSOR 
For Sale 

LOTS of GOODIES II Interested, pleaae call Amy x1263 
For sale; 1980 Chevette, excellent con­dition, 85,000 miles, $1,200 or best offer. Call Sarah at 283-3943. 
.MACINTOSH 128K; IMAGEWRITER 1 & ACCESSORIES Call TOM 2350 
St. Loula Cardinal Beaebell Fansll I have SIX tickets lor the night game on Aug. 5th against the Expos. I c.on't go, but I know you would love tot Only $50. x1580 
TICKETS 

I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN 
WE NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD fiX. CALL KAREN 2879, OR ERIC 232·1399 TODAY! 
HELP! I DESPERATELY need one more Commencement ticket. I'll make you a GREAT DEAL $$$! Call Gretchen 272­2836 
······················•··-. ···························· 
HELP!! I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233-4176 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week 
233-2342 
ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
Bartles Imports BMWMAZDPNW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th 
FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE Joba $18,4 to $69,891. Immediate openlngal c.oll JOB LINE 1-518-459­3611 Ext. F 784, 24hr. 
SENIORS: Moving to So. Cal. lor a per­manent job? Call me if you need a room­male. Jim 1912. 
SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or 
B. MILLER PO 665 NO IN 
JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campus... 
TWILIGHT RETREAT FOR WOMEN • • 
sponsored by the Statara of the Holy Croaa -1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. Call: Sr. Arlene at 288-2665 APRIL 29, FRIDAY 6:3G-11 P.M. (Evening meal Included) 
THE GRIND THE GRIND WED-13­CHIPS-1 0;30-?--FAI-15-BRIDGETTES­8TIL1000 CENT CANS MON-18­BRIDGETTES-10-CLOSE 780CENTBIG DRAFTS 
VoteUMOC Vote UMOC La Fortune Info Booth 
.~.O..N.:F..~!.?:.~.......................................... 
Are you familiar with rhe term ROADKILL? 
nan sauer for UMOC... 
STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER at STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Loweat rate. 24 hour electronic protec­tion. Call 654-3636. 
KAREN LYNCH 
KAREN LYNCH 
HOW MANY OTHER SYR DATES 
HAVE YOU FORGOTTEN? 
HEY YVONNE· WHEN'S THE NEXT CRAWFISH BOIL?!! 
CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF S6-$1c»>R. Can you make $12,1l0G'fr. delivering lor Domino's Pizza? You bet! Now hiring. 1835 South Band Avenue $3.7Mir with bonus at hire. 277-2151. 
SENIOR MONTH 1988 IS STARTINGIII SENIOR MONTH 1988 IS STAATINGIII GET PSYCHED AND CONTINUE THE FESTIVITIES MONDAY AT CHIP'S $2 PITCHERS AND $1 SEABREEZES STAAT THE FINAL MONTH WITH A BANG!II STAAT THE FINAL MONTH WITH A BANGIII 
SENIOR MONTH 1988!!! SENIOR MONTH 1988111 CONTINUE THE FES­TIVITIES TUESDAY AT TIVOLI'S DIME BEERS, LOTS OF FRIENDS, AND LOTS OF FUN HOW CAN YOU GO WRONG??? 
Like NO girts, I'm cold as steel Standing stalwart in the wind On the campus of our Lady. 
TRAVEL--MEET NEW PEOPLE--SEE THE WORLD Are these your hopes and dreams for the coming school year? Will you be leaving South Bend lor study in exotic lands? NOOMC FRESHMEN AND SOP­HOMORES WHO ARE STUDYING ABROAD NEXT YEAR: Come to Student Government's BON VOYAGE PARTY TUESDAY, APRIL 19 
4-6 PM THEODORE'S PIZZA, POP, TRAVEL TALK QUES­TIONS? MARY 1284 
Slam--Bam--THANK YOU MAMI BBB 
THANKS ST. JUDE, MOTHER MARY, AND TRISHI 
COME AND SEE THE BEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM... FIVE LYON1TES WHO BITE STARRING 
YVETTE "SYR QUEEN" RAVRY JACKIE "HOT LIPS" LABOE KELLY "sMASHING" RYAN MAUREEN "TEDDY" O'BRIEN DANA "THE RICK­ER" SCHALTZ TODAY AT 5 AT SMC. GOOD LUCKII LOVE, CARMINA AND LINDA 
SUMMER JOBS! SUMMER JOBS! AVAILABLE AT THE DEVELOPMENT 
PHONE CENTER EVENING HOURS, NO WEEKENDS. 20 HRS PER WEEK TIL THE END OF JULY! $4.35 ·$4.75 PER HOUR. PER­FECT JOB FOR SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS. APPLY ATBADIN PHONE CENTER OR eALL CAROL McCLORY AT 239-7938 
HEYIII Guess wh•t'a coming April 27 
SENIOR TRIPII SENIOR TRIPI! SENIOR TRIPII Sign-up Monday and Tuead•Y In LaFortunellll DON'T FOR· GETII 
CLASS OF '89 WATCH CAMPUS MAIL FOR INFO ABOUT SENIOR TRIPI SIGN-UPS ON MONDAY AND TUE8­DAYIIII Let's try some atreaa management I 
TO THE THEIF WHO STOLE THE WATCHES OUT OF 815 PEON FAI41!: MAIL THEM BACK TO THE OWNER BY 
41.21 AND I WON'T TURN YOU IN 
Kevin: Sorry I had lo get to class Thursday afternoon--but I'll be around . 
SOPHOMORES 
SOPHOMORES TODAY IS THE DEADLINE FOR TURN­ING IN APPLICATIONS FOR JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL THEY CAN BE PICKED UP OR TURNED IN AT THE SECRETARY'S DESK 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE EVERYONE(THAT INCLUDES STU­DENTS MOVING OFF-CAMPUS OR GOING ABROAD) ARE WELCOME TO APPLY! ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MATT AT x1686 
Dave Tyndall: Yes, here it is, lhe FORT WAYNE personal that you've longed for! 
-your U.P. buddy 
So, you have discovered you need not join the Army to see the work!? If you are beginning lo pack your backpacks and are getting your passport ready lor stamping, take a break Tuesday 4-6 lor Student Government's 
BON VOYAGE PARTY pizza pop travel talk at Theodore's all NO and SMC students who will be studying abroad next year are cordially invited! Questions? Mary 1284 
........................................................... WANTED: One silly goose, preferably Cancer. Must enjoy sharing hands; can­not urp. Needed because is so cute; dura­
tion needed could be indefinite. Sigh. Are you interested you goose? 
BOINKERS Go Boz, Brian, Ben, Kurt, Joel Good luck tonight. We'll be there. Remember, you o-ua a pertyl Love, Your F•n Club 
································································ 
AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTS ARE HERE X 1951 
HAPPY 21 LOPPERI THEREISNOLONGERANYAEASON NOT TO GO TO THE BARSI BEE ETCH I 
Kendra: You are fantastic! If I can ever help you, just ask. JOHN 
Dart Girt Says: HAPPY BIRTHDAY JACKIE I Keep those Thighs burning I 
CRAWFISH AND MARSHMELLOWS 
HAVE YOU TRIED THEM LATELY? 

Guido-oRosemary does not need psyc­hotherapy! What do you know, you're just a freshman. the Cushing classroom pirate p.s. stop stealing my quotes I 
So, happy happy happy LATE BIRTHDAYS to those 2-cool 2 chicks in 153 Farley: L.L. Coyla J. & RockO CilettOI! 
XXOO, Sa\J\':!'cts 
Michelle & Belay The horse is ready and waiting. Return my jockey and we'll be ready to race. 
Love, SGT Psycho 
Have A Coke And A Smile 
································································ 
HAPPY 21at JENII Love, A 
DAMN, I SCRATCHED ON THE EIGHT BALL AGAIN' 
VOTE VOTE VOTE ANN CLARK, PRES MAURA CLARKE, VICE-EJEANNIE SABIN, SEC. WENDY DILLON, TAEAS. REGINA HALL OFFICERS 
CLARK & CLARKE -THE TEAM WITH SPARKill 
LEMANS HALL '88-89 WE WANT TO MAKE LEMANS A PLACE YOU'LL BE PROUD TO CALL YOUR HOME! 
VOTE TUESDAY PANOS -PRES. SANDE-VP MtNDOCK -TREAS. JACOB -SEC. 
LEMANS HALL '88-89 WE WANT TO MAKE LEMANS A PLACE YOU'LL BE PROUD TO CALL YOUR HOME. 
VOTE TUESDAY PANOS -PRES. SANDE-VP MINDOCK -TREAS. JACOB ·SEC. 
(i'ti"E:"oi'iiEFi).si'Ei>H·r·:······················ 
Roses are red School colors of basketball teams currenHy under NCAA investigation are blue You're so vain You probably think lhis personal's about you 
Stephanie 

Just joking about the above personal. I hope you realize I'd never say you were vain. The only conceit I'd associ ale you with is purely metaphysical. Have an awesome unbirthday, and have fun working on your English paper. (Remember: "In every job that must be done, there is an element of fun. You lind the fun, and . .") 
l
Monday, April 18, 1988 The Observer page 11 
I 
Unser Jr. stops 
Andretti 
Associated Press 
LONG BEACH--AI Unser Jr. ended the Andretti family's hold on the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach, running away with Sunday's Indy-car race on the seaside road circuit. 
Unser, who will turn 26 on Tuesday, picked up his fifth Indy-car victory--all have come on road courses--and his first since the 1986 finale at Miami. 
Two-time defending CART­PPG champion Bobby Rahal finished second Sunday, one lap and 33.482 seconds behind the winner's Chevrolet­powered March. 
Kevin Cogan wound up third, followed another lap back by Raul Boesel of Brazil, Derek Daly of Ireland and Rocky Moran. 
Unser, who came back this year to the team owned by Rick Galles after a three-year stint with Doug Shierson, gave Galles only his second Indy-car victory and his first since Un­ser won at Portland, Ore. in June 1984. 
The winner, who had finished second here the last two years, averaged 83.655 mph in the 95­lap, 158.65-mile race on the tight 1.67-mile circuit. Unser won $91,160. 
Boesel, who replaced Unser on the Shierson team, now leads the season standings after two races with 22 points. Going into the next event, the Indianapolis 500 on May 29, Un­ser is tied with Phoenix winner Mario Andretti for second with 21 points. 

the first game was almost for-game with an earned run gotten by the end of the average under 1.00, walked the doubleheader, as the second first two batters. game Irish heroics could have Irish rightfielder Dan Peltier 
overshadowed any previous hit into a fielder's choice, but
o<b 
comeback. when Titan first baseman GET A $1 500 BONUS Lance Sulliva~'s throw to 
' second was wild, the bases

·(1..'~~ ORIGINAL PIZZA 
AND MUCH MORE FROM were loadedwith nobody out. THE ARMY RESERVE.

~~~ AND 
Mahaney promptly walked
If you join a selected Army 
Ed Lund to bring in a run. The
Reserve unit in the South Bend

FAMILY RESTAURANT 
SENIORS! 
Mark your calendars on May 2nd Class Dinner 6:30-8:00 pm. 

streak 
Andretti, who had won three of the first four Indy-car races here, including last year's, started on the outside of the front row and dashed past pole­winner Danny Sullivan at the start. 
Unser started fourth in the 26-car field but got a very good jump at the green flag and also made it past Sullivan's Penske PC17-Chevrolet. 
In turn eight on the 11-turn circuit--a hairpin--unser slipped past Andretti on the in­side to take the lead on the first lap and pulled away from the second-place car. 
He built a margin of nearly 17 seconds over Andretti by lap Art Brady and the Notre Dame lacrosse team were 
19. At that point, Scott surrounded by Denison all day Saturday as the 
Brayton's spin in the hairpin 
Big Red downed the Irish 14-6 at Krause Stadium. 

brought out a full-course cau­
tion flag and sent all the game, Olmstead moved into leaders onto pit road for their fifth on the Notre Dame all­
Lax

first round of pit stops. time scoring list with 92 career 
continued from page 16 points (56 goals and 36 assists).

Unser's crew, directed by man-up play scouted because He leads the team this yearchief mechanic Owen Snyder, they played Kenyon right after with 28 goals and 15 assists. had problems with the lug nut we did," McNicholas said. The Irish are 2-0 in the Great 
on the left-rear tire, apparently "Obviously our failure to score Lakes Conference with gamesstripping it. on man-up hurt us and we'll remaining against Wittenburg, They eventually got a new have to improve for the big Michigan State, and Ohio State. 
tire jammed on, but the long games coming up." They also have a non­
stop dropped Unser back to With his three points in the conference matchup at Ohio sixth, with Boesel, who stayed on the track during the caution, 
Detroit broke a 3-3 tie with taking the lead. an eight-run outburst in the
Clinch 
eighth inning, which includedBoesel lost power as the cars 

continued from page 16

were about to take the green home runs by Alan Budnick (lag again on lap 24, giving up game. Tim Hutson hit a home and Lonnie Draper. the top spot to Andretti's Lola­run in the third, his 11th, to set Chevrolet. Andretti, in turn, a school record for homers in The Titans took an 11-3 lead gave up the lead when he a season. Pesavento set two into the bottom of the ninth in­tagged one of the concrete bar­school records with his 37th ning. That's when things got in­
riers lining the temporary cir­career stolen base and his 120th teresting. 
cuit and came away with a flat 
career run scored. Titan reliever Todd left-front tire on lap 27. Notre Dame's six-run rally in Mahaney, who entered the 
score was 11-4.
area, you'll get yourself a nice $1 ,500 bonus. 
Hutson went up to the plate. 
His hit went up over the
But that's just for openers.

M-TH 
<€> 
You'll also have the 
rightfield wall for a grand 
opportunity to get money for 
slam. 11-8.

$2.00 
college through the G.l. Bill. Or 
James Sass followed with a 
you can get the money for 
single, and Dave Legus hit a

OFF 
vocational training. 
ball right through Titan second 
Already have a college loan? 
baseman Rick Tavormina's

PITCHERS 
Well, maybe we can help you repay 
legs, and still nobody was out. 
it. 
Dave Yawman was next up,
Need extra money? Sure you do 
and the Titans committed their 
And we'll pay you over $80 a 
third error of the inning. Sass 
weekend to start. You normally 
scored on the play. 11-9. No
train one weekend a month, plus 
outs.
two weeks a year. 
At this point, after the Irish

EWING AVE. 
The Army Reserve has a lot to 
had scored six runs with the
offer--and it starts with a 
benefit of just two hits, Dan
$1 ,500 bonus. Let's talk.

For Faster Service Kopitzke replaced Mahaney on 
Call SOT Mahome or SOT Cheek 

Call for Reservations the mound. Pat O'Brien
at 234-4187

288-3320 
promptly foul popped a bunt at­
Be All You can Be. 
tempt to Titan catcher Mike
ARMY RESERVE

2610 Prairie Avenue, (Just West of Olive) 

Wesleyan this Saturday and 
are 4-1 overall in the Midwest. 
As a result of the Big Red's 
win over the Irish, it appears 
as if Denison and Ohio Wes­
leyan will battle for the Mid­
west Lacrosse Association 
title. Air Force, meanwhile, 
seems to be on the verge of cap­
turing the reserved NCAA 
Western playoff bid because of 
the Irish loss. 
Stefanski. One out. 

Pesavento then hit an infield single, scoring one run and moving the tying run to second base. 11-10. One out. 
Kopitzke promptly walked 
Skupien to load the bases and 
move the tying run to third and 
the winning run to second. The 
next batter, Peltier, singled to 
center to score the tying and 
winning runs. 12-11. Notre 
Dame wins. 

"Peltier's the guy you want 
up there when the game's on 
the line," said Murphy. "That 
was the greatest comeback 
I've ever been associated with. 
When you're down 11-3 in the 
ninth with their best pitcher on 
the mound ... it's just a credit 
to our kids and their never-say­
die attitude." 

The Irish almost did it again 
in the first game on Sunday. 
Notre Dame overcame an 8-3 
deficit to tie the score at 9-9 in 
the fifth inning. 

Detroit scored five runs in 
the next two innings to take a 
14-9 lead into the seventh and 
final inning. 

Notre Dame scored three 
runs in the last inning, and the 
Irish had the tying run on first 
base when Detroit leftfielder 
Lonnie Draper made a great 
catch of a deep drive by Lund, 
giving the Titans the 14-12 vic­
tory. 

"You can't do it every time, 
but it was good to see them 
come back again in the ninth 
inning," said Murphy. "It 
shows we deserved to win three 
of four." 

The Irish were able to win 
three of four, but for a while it 
looked like Sunday's nightcap 
might be payback time for 
Notre Dame. 

The Irish held a seemingly 
insurmountable 13-3 lead in the 
sixth inning. But this weekend 
at windy Jake Kline Field, no 
lead was safe. 

Detroit, playing as the home 
team on Sunday, scored four 
runs in the sixth to make it 13-7, 
and four more runs in the 
seventh to close the gap to 13­
11. 

But Notre Dame answered 
with three in the eighth, and 
the game was called due to 
darkness with the Irish ahead 
16-11. 


SIU-Edwardsville, the team In other singles action, Cahill 
Associated Press the only one with a chance to $126,000 from the total purse of found Northwest Missouri lost to Portia George 3-6, 4-6 atcatch Norman on the final hole, $700,000 and pushed Norman's State on the other side of the number-one. Dasso fell toHILTON HEAD ISLAND, missed a 20-foot birdie putt that earnings on the American tour 
nets. Christina Bokelund 2-6, 4-6 atS.C.--Greg Norman, accompa­would have forced a playoff. to $353,100 for the year. He won The ease with which the Irish number-two, Lohrer lost tonied by a gravely ill teen-ager Hutton grinned broadly and three Australian titles earlier disposed of their foe was Michele Wreen 4-6, 1-6 atwhose wish was to watch him shook hands with a smiling this season. 
reflected in the game time. number-three and Pacella suc­play, came from four shots Norman, who then touseled the Frost, who has recorded six 
back Sunday to score his first youngster's hair. runner-up finishes without a While the typical dual match cumbed to Jenny Reuter 2-6, 0-6 for Notre Dame takes approx­at number-four.
American victory in two years, "I just want to thank Jamie," victory in four seasons on the imately five hours to complete, The freshman tandem ofa one-shot triumph in the Her­Norman said. "He showed me American tour, was second 
itage Classic. Sunday's match was consum­Pacella and Bradshaw picked
inspiration and courage. He again. He had a 70 and was tied mated in an hour. up the sole doubles win for theJamie Hutton, a 17-year-old told me he wanted me to shoot at 272 with Dr. Gil Morgan. 
"It was a ridiculous match,

leukemia patient whose wish it 64 and win I shot a 66 and that Morgan, who hasn't finished Irish, conquering Reuter and 
" said Gelfman. "Going in, we Demuro 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 at number­
was to see Norman play, was enough." lower than eighth this season, 
walked every step and watched Norman gave Hutton the a comeback year from expected two good matches. three. Cahill and Dasso lost to Obviously, we didn't get that." George and Bokelund 7-6 (7-5),
every stroke as Norman plaid jacket and trophy shoulder surgery, birdied the 
emerged from a four-man awarded to the winner. last hole for a 68. 6-7 (9-11), 1-6 at number-one The Irish had little trouble in doubles, and second-seeded
scramble with a bogey-free "I'd like you to have it and Third-round leader Fred 
final round of 5-under-par 66. put it in your hospital room. Couples simply couldn't get defeating Northwest Missouri Lohrer and Illig lost-to the team This is your trophy," Norman anything going. He had a State, sweeping all six singles' of Wreen and Stace 3-6, 3-6. matches in straight sets. With the loss, Notre Dame
Hutton was given the trip to said to Hutton, who was closing 73 and finished fourth At number-one singles, CeCe moved into a 3-3 series tie with this resort island by a wearing the jacket already. at 274. 
charitable group, Thursday's "I almost had heart failure Paul Azinger and David Cahill did not lose a game in SID-Edwardsville, dating back Child, which attempts to grant with all those short (par) putts, Ogrin, not really in the title beating Kelly Laintz 6-0, 6-0. to 1982. According to Gelfman, 
Second-seeded Michelle Dasso the team underestimated itswishes of seriously ill but he made them,' Hutton said chase over the last 18 holes, cruised by Carrie Correll 6-1, opponent, partially because of
youngsters. after Norman had one-putted were another two shots as 6-2, while Alice Lohrer its Division II status.
Hutton, from Madison, Wis., for par on the last two holes. Azinger had a closing 68, Ogrin 
sat with his idol on the player's Norman scored his first 69. bag beside the 18th green after American victory since 1986 he had completed play and with a 271 total, 13 under par 
Join

waited for the final groups to on the picturesque Harbour finish. Town Golf Links. 
The Observer 

I page 12 The Observer 
I 
Final 64 take the court 
Today's games mark the 5:30 -Yo...What Up? vs. Hans, Frans, and 3 Stepan 8 
Other.•. 4:00 -Carver High vs. Orange Blossom Special 
beginning of the Round of 64. 6:15-Lou's 2 QB's vs. Rick, Dan, and 3 Other.•. 4:45 -Return of the Fug~ive Guys vs. 5 Guys 
Starting today, the remain­Stepan 3 and 0 Girls: the NO ... 
4:00 -5 Slamma Jamma vs. Censored 5:30 -Swaggart, Bakker, and 3 Others vs. Les
ing games in the tournament 

4:45 -Who's Next ... vs. Put the Power of an Mrs and the Return... 
Upright... 6:15-Somfaw's Return vs. QB's Pub
will have referees. 

5:30 -Butch and the Boxcars vs. SCB Club Bookatore 9 6:15-Minahoonies vs. Men on Men 4:00-Hahn's Funeral Home vs. Murph and the Stepan 4 Magic Tones Bookatore Tournament 4:00-Do You Know Anything ... vs. Uncle Fester 4:45 -Stoney Island Ave. vs. Tequilla White and the Chiefs Lightening 
Monday's Gamea 4:45 -The Team That Couldn't Think ... vs. 5:30 -6 Guys That Can't Add vs. Debi Gibson Stepan t Whubus and His 4 Friends 6:15 -Ferrence and 4 Other Guys ... vs. 5 Guys 
4:00 -The Explosive Package and Boomer vs. 5:30 -Put it in the Hole Again, Chief vs. The Who Can Lick ... Son of 211 Groundskeepers... Bookstore 1 o 
4:45 -Check the Ice vs. Pop a Shot 6:15 -4 Brothers and a Sweet J vs. The Min­4:00 -SOS vs. Spidey's Netters 5:30-WeB Bricklayers vs.l'll Play, No I Won't... isters of Pain 4:45 -Boinkers vs. Swaggart, Reagan, and 3 
6:15 -Man in a Canoe Overboard vs. Pump Up Stepan 5 Other Guys Who ... 
the Volume 4:00 -Tofu's Last Gig vs. Malicious Prosecution 5:30 -A Bad Dude, A Cool Buu vs. Red, Red Stepan 2 4:45 -Corporate Raiders vs. The Tors Wine 
4:00 -Kinkoids vs. The Skirts 5:30 -Brace Yourselves vs. Top Guns 6:15 -Adworks' All-Stars vs. Larvae: Boon or 
4:45 -Air Daggers vs. Johnny Wad's Last Shot 6:15-Chip's Bar vs. Tookey Masters Bane 
Norman wins Heritage,rallies from four down 
The two sat and watched as David Frost of South Africa, the last man on the course and· 
Spring 
continued from page 16 
Defensive tackle Steve 
Roddy led the defense through 
the offensive line with three 
&acks, one coming during the 
offense's last drive: Roddy and 
the rest of the defensive squad 
held the Irish offensive units to 
284 total yards. 
"We're seeing every defense known to man, seeing all kinds of stunts and everything else," Holtz said. "Barry Alvarez thinks that will give us a better chance if we do all those things. 
"Whatever is going to enable us to be a good defensive team, we do. Defense is going to take first priority." 
The special teams' units fi­nally got a chance to compete in a spring scrimmage. Junior Sean Connor and freshman Jim 
Sexton both averaged 32.5 yards on two punts, while junior Pete Hartweger averaged 24 yards on three punts with a long of 43 yards. 
Ho missed a field goal at­tempt from 45 yards, and fresh­man Billy Hackett missed from 40 yards out. Ricky Watters led the punt returners with a 20­yard run. 
"We did not hit the ball real well," Holtz said. "Reggie hit two good ones and one bad one, but there wasn't anything im­pressive about the kicking." 
Holtz gave the squad the weekend off, and practice resumes Tuesday afternoon. 

The victory was worth 

A In conjunction with National Volunteer 
Week, April17-23, the Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana wishes to recognize and thank all of the Notre Dame and St. Mary students who have so generously volunteered their time to our agency this past year. 
John Baker  Adam Milani  
Tom Herr  Antonia Pancel  
Lisa Marz  Jon Theisen  
Juan Ortiz  Julie Fessel  
Dan Ripper  Paula Kostalansky  
Julie Darnell  Megan O'Brien  
Judy Kline  Lisa Perez  

THEHESBURGHPROGRAM IN PUBLIC SERVICE 
PRESENTS 
DR. JOHN L. PALMER 
Senior Economist and 
Co-Director, Changing Domestic Prlorites Project, The Urban Institute; 

] 
; Reg. $8 Mast;~(~~ :
Dean-Elect, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, 

t-------------------1 
Syracuse University 

:$5 OFF ANY PERM 
" Beyond the Reagan Revolution: 

I Mast~r<;_~ : 
Reading National Priorities" 

~------------------~ Monda~ April 18, 1988 
MasterCuts 
7:30p.m. 
family _haircutters 
122 Hayes Healy 
University Park Mall 277-3770 
c X X X " ', 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS------....,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
famdy haucuttns I 
:l -------------------,$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
Monday, April 18, 1988 
ND tennis splits, Gelfman unhappy 
By FRANK PASTOR eliminated Ann Arts-6-1, 6-0 at Sports Writer number-three. Kim Pacella prevailed over Notre Dame coach Michele Amy Andersen 6-1, 6-1 at Gelfman clearly was not number-four, Natalie Illig put pleased with the results after away Vicki Hollander 6-0, 6-1 her women's tennis team split at number-five and Cathy its weekend matches. Although Bradshaw emerged victorious the team lost to Southern over Patty Dingfield 6-4, 6-0 at Illinois-Edwardsville 3-6 on number-six. The teams did not Saturday, it was Sunday's 6-0 play doubles. victory over Northwest Mis­Notre Dame had a much souri State which the third­tougher time of it Saturday, fal­year coach found particularly ling to SIU-Edwardsville. The enraging. Irish claimed two singles' vic­When the Irish (11-14) left tories in the match, as fifth­Notre Dame on Thursday, they seeded Illig defeated Sandy expected to meet Mankato Stace 6-3, 6-7 (7-4), 7-6 (11-9), State in Sunday's match. and sixth-seeded Bradshaw However, upon its arrival at downed Nicky Demuro 6-4, 6-4. 
Monday, April 18, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
O's keep losing, 
Indians 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Mel Hall and Brook Jacoby had three hits apiece, and John Farrell pitched the Cleveland Indians to a 4-1 victory Sunday, giving the Orioles their 12th straight loss to open the season, one short of the major league record. 
The Indians, who won for the 11th time in 13 games, are off to their best start since 1966. 
Brewers 6, Yankees 3 

Joey Meyer homered for his first major league hit, Robin Yount and Rob Deer also homered, and the Milwaukee Brewers beat the New York Yankees 6-3 Sunday in Mil­waukee behind the pitching of Ted Higuera. 
Tigers 8, Royals 6 

Chet Lemon extended his hitting streak to alllO Detroit games, driving in two runs and scoring twice, and Jeff Robinson pitched the Tigers to an 8-6 victory Sunday over the Kansas City Royals at Detroit. 
Robinson, 1-1, allowed three runs on four hits over 6 2-3 in­nings. Three of the four hits off him were solo homers, two by George Brett and one by Jamie Quirk. 
roll on 
Blue Jays 2, Twins 0 
Mike Flanagan and Tom Henke combined on a seven­hit shutout, and Kelly Gruber figured in both Toronto runs as the Blue Jays snapped a four-game losing streak with a 2-0 victory Sunday over the Minnesota Twins at Toronto. 
White Sox 7, Athletics 6 
Lance Johnson doubled home two runs, sending Chicago ahead during a five­run fourth inning, and the White Sox beat the Oakland Athletics 7-6 Sunday to sweep their three-game series at Oakland, 
Red Sox 15, Rangers 2 
Mike Greenwell drove in a career-high six runs with a homer, two singles and a grounder Sunday as the Bos­ton Red Sox enjoyed a 15-2 rout of the Texas Rangers at Boston. 
Angels 7, Mariners 4 
Chili Davis drove in three runs with two hits, and Kirk McCaskill scattered seven hits in seven innings as the California Angels defeated the Seattle Mariners 7-4 Sun­day at Seattle. 
A super Birthday Wish for a very special year! 
We miss you and LOVE you! 
All our Love, Mom & Dad, Tom & Amy 
ANNOUNCING A NEW CONCENTRATION IN GENDER STUDIES 
Introductory and Advanced Courses Including: 
Engi291A: Engl386: 
Soc 342: Phil232: 
Phil230: 
Gender and Society in American Lit. American Authors: Women in the Nineteenth Century Marriage and the Family Women: Alternative Philosophic Perspectives Philosophical Ideas in Art 
For further information contact: 
Sonia Gernes Kathleen Biddick Hames Walton Janet Kourany 
Christia Mercer 
(English)  356 O'Shag  
(History)  456 Decio  
(English)  309 O'Shag  
(Philo)  623 Hesburgh  
Library  
(Philo)  321 Decio  

•
Braves end slide with w1n 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES--Zane Smith pitched a four-hitter and Damaso Garcia hit his first Na­tional League home run as At­lanta ended a record 10-game losing streak with a 3-1 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers on Sunday. 
Smith, 1-2, struck out five and walked one. The only run off the left-hander came in the third, when Rick Dempsey walked and scored from second on Steve Sax's single. 
Garcia hit two-run homer off Don Sutton, 0-2, with one out in the sixth to put the Braves ahead. The homer scored Al­bert Hall, who had singled. 
Pirates 12, Cubs 7 
Andy Van Slyke hit two homers and R.J. Reynolds had four hits to lead an 18-hit attack as the Pittsburgh Pirates pounded the Chicago Cubs 12-7 Sunday at Chicago. 
Van Slyke and Bobby Bonilla drove in three runs each, as did Reynolds, who had a pair of doubles and two singles. 
Vicente Palacios started for the Pirates but left in the fourth when he stopped a smash by Jim Sundberg with his bare right hand. Jeff Robinson, 1-0, relieved and got the victory. Jim Gott pitched the final 2 2-3 innings. 
Calvin Schiraldi fell to 0-2. 
Mets 3, Cardinals 2 
Kevin Elster's two-out single in the ninth scored Mookie Wil­son from tliird base Sunday and New York beat the St. Louis Cardinals 3-2 at New York for the Mets' sixth consecutive vic­tory. 
The Mets tied the score in the eighth on run-scoring singles by Darryl Strawberry and Kevin McReynolds and then went on for a three-game sweep of St. Louis. 
Wilson opened the ninth with a single off pitcher Steve Peters' shin. Peters fielded the 
Rocco'. Hair 
i_.·~,_Stylint 
I . 
I 
531 N. Michifcrn St:. Phone lU-4957 




I 

Associated Press 
Dale Murphy and the Atlanta Braves won their first game of the season Sunday, 3-1 over the Los Angeles Dodgers. Zane Smith was the winning pitcher for the Braves, who broke a 1()-game losing 
streak. 
ball and, while third baseman Terry Pendleton tried to prevent him from throwing, bounced a throw into the first­base stands for an error that sent Wilson to second. 
Pinch-hitter Barry Lyons sacrificed and pinch-hitter Tim Teufel lined out to Pendleton. Elster, a rookie mired in a 4­for-34 slump, then singled off reliever Scott Terry. 
Roger McDowell, 1-0, pitched two scoreless innings for the victory and Peters lost his first decision. 
Expos 5, Phlllles 2 
Andres Galarraga drove in three runs with a homer and a single as the Montreal Expos defeated Philadelphia 5-2 Sun­day at Montreal, sending the Phillies to their seventh straight defeat. 
•
No ga1n 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS--Marion Starl­ing and Mark Breland both thought they won. Neither of them boosted his stock. 
At the end of a rather dull 12 

Start your research career with Northwestern University's Medical School as a member of our prestigious and dedicated research staff. Your Involve­ment and challenge can start with research opportunities available in the 
areas of:  
• Mlcrolmmunology  • lndocrlnology  
• lntectloue Dlee•ee  • Allergy  
• P.thology  • lurgery  
• Molecul•r Biology  • Medicine  

Successful candidates will have Bachelor's or Master's degrees in the biological sciences. with emphasis on independent lab research Must possess a thorough knowledge ol tissue & cell culture, microbrology and biochemistry techniques Small laboratory animal handling expenence helpful. Proven academic achievement is also required 
Northwestern University offers a very competitive starting salary and com­prehensive benefits package, including dental insurance and 3 weeks pard vacation your first year. For immediate consideration. please contact your department chairperson or campus placement office. or send resume. which must include transcripts and two faculty references. to 
Northwestern University 
Personnel Department, Chicago Campus 339 E. Chicago Avenue, Room 119 Chicago, IL 60611 
An Equal Opportumty Employer M/F 

Pascual Perez, 2-1, pitched seven innings, allowing four hits while striking out eight to help the Expos sweep the three­game series. Andy McGaffigan worked the final two innings to get his first save, allowing no · hits. 
Astros 5, Reds 3 

Nolan Ryan struck out nine and broke a tie with a two-run single as the Houston Astros beat the Cincinnati Reds 5-3 on Sunday in Houston. 
Ryan, 2-0, pitched eight in­nings, allowing seven hits. Dave Smith got the final three hits for his second save. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the second, Mark Bailey singled and Chuck Jackson doubled. Ryan then singled off shortstop Barry Larkin's glove to score both runners. 
•
1n fight 

rounds Saturday night at the Las Vegas Hilton, Starling still was the World Boxing Associ­ation welterweight champion by virtue of a draw. 
"Mark maybe won three rounds," said Starling. "Mark was never in control of the fight." 
"I felt I came on in the late rounds," Breland said. "I thought I won." 
Two of the three judges gave Breland three of the last four rounds and the third called the last four 2-1-1 in favor of Breland. But the 1984 Olympic champion fell just short of regaining the title he lost to Starling on an nth-round knockout last Aug. 22. 
"I would have like to seen him finish up stronger," said Eddie Futch, Starling's trainer. 
Judge Jerry Roth scored it 116-113 for Starling, while Dave Moretti favored Breland 115­
114. Elias Quintana scored it 114-114. 
Starling now appears headed for a fight with Lloyd Honeyg­han of Britain, the World Boxing Council welterweight champion, in the fall at London. Honeyghan was at ringside. 
"I have to discuss that with my manager who is Marlon Starling," Starling said. 
Monday, April 18, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
McEnroe breaks 19-month slide 
Associated Press 
TOKYO--John McEnroe, ser­ving strongly and volleying well, trounced favored Stefan Edberg of Sweden 6-2, 6-2 Sun­day in the men's singles finals of the Japan Open Tennis Championship for his first tournament victory in 19 months. 
It was the first Grand Prix victory for McEnroe since he won in Scottsdale, Ariz. on Oct. 11, 1986. McEnroe was ranked No. 1 in the world from 1981 until 1984 but ·is currently ranked 25th. 
It was McEnroe's seventh career victory in eight matches against Edberg, who is ranked third in the world. He earned $122,250 from a total purse of $627,500 while Edberg took home $61,125. 
"I played up-and-down in the last year and a half, but it's good to win a tournament," said McEnroe, who never lost serve and broke Edberg four times in dispatching him in just an hour and 14 minutes. 
"I had very good concentra­tion today. I'll see how I can play now with different players and different surfaces. It will be just like climbing the moun­tain and it is still difficult to do." 

But his coach and former doubles partner, Peter Fleming, was optimistic about McEnroe, who has had several nagging injuries and has missed several tournaments after being suspended for his conduct on the court. 
"John is about 75-80 percent compared to his best days. I think a comeback is possible," Fleming said. 
McEnroe got off to a good start before 9,600 spectators on the hard court of the Ariake Tennis Park, taking the first game without losing a point. He consistently passed Edberg, who moved to the net aggres­sively. 
He broke Edberg's service in the fourth game and again in the eighth with a lob from the net to take the first set in 41 minutes. 
The second set was even quicker--just 33 minutes as the 29-year-old New Yorker hit two passing shots and a smash to break Edberg in the sixth game and take a 4-2 lead. Trailing 0­30 in the eighth game, Edberg double-faulted, then hit a ground stroke into the net as McEnroe raised his hands into the air to the cheering spec­tators. 
Spring Runs heId 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore Dave Flickinger and Carl Vogel were the big stars in Saturday's Irish Spring Runs. 
Flickinger, a Pangborn Hall resident, won the six-mile race with a time of 34:34. James Morningstar won the faculty division in a time of 35: 19 and finished second overall. Fresh­man James Coogan of Grace took third in 37:54. 
Kevin Scanlon was second in faculty and sixth overall with a time of 42:35. John Riley 
(38:19) and Casey Sprock 
(39:23) took the top two spots in the graduate student divi­sion. Lyons resident Kath­leen Emond won the women's race in 43: 24 followed by Kerrie Wagner (43:54) of Badin in second. 
East wins classic 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.-­Alonzo Mourning's 16 points and Billy Owens' 14 rebounds led the East to a 105-99 victory over the West in the McDonald's All American bas­ketball game Sunday. 
. 
The 11th edition of the game featured some of the nation's best high school players, most headed for major-college powers in the fall. 
Mourning, the 6-10, 230-pound center from Chesapeake, Va., who will attend Georgetown, hit a pair of late second half dunks as the East held off a West rally. 
Owens, a 6-8 forward from Carlisle, Pa., who has signed with Syracuse, added 10 points 
and shared the game's  most  
valuable  player  award  with  
Mourning.  


Vogel ran the three-mile race in 16: 15 to take the win. Kevin McKay was second with a time of 16:21. Ed Gibbons (18:12) was the first graduate student to finish followed by Eric W at­kins. 
William Flynn won the fac­ulty division in a time of 18:33 and James Moriarty (23:31) took second. Jennifer Brennan 
(22:45) of Walsh finished first in the women's three-mile run, with Jackie Henley (22:53) taking second. 

Charles Barkley and the Philadelphia 76ers are fighting for one of the final playoff spots In the NBA. The Indiana Pacers are also In the race for a playoff berth In the Eastern Conference along with 
Washington, New York and Cleveland. 
~ing
Advice .~ cansa~e'
alife ~ . 
..-::: 
FORD TOYOTA -VOLVO 

II 
DOMINO'S PIZZA · SUPPORTS YOUR : . ® CAMPUS FILM PROGRAM 
JAMES BOND 00711,;' 
FOR YOUR EYES ONLY 
FRIIIIIIIISSIA \lliH 1£1115 
James Bond in Two Action Classics: 
FOR YOUR EYES ONLY and FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE April 20th and 21st April 22nd and 23rd Showtimes: 8:00 PM and 10:00 PM Cushing Auditorium Admission: $1.50 
ORDER A DOMINO'S PIZZA, BRING RECEIPT FROM PIZZA BOX TO THIS SCREENING FOR 50% OFF ADMISSION. ONE DISCOUNT PER RECEIPT. LIMITED NUMBER OF T-SHIRTS GIVEN AWAY. ALL ATTENDING WILL RECEIVE MONEY-SAVING COUPONS. · 

Navrati Iova 
I 

WinS tit I e 
Associated Press 

AMELIA ISLAND. Fla.-­Martina Navratilova used a strong serve-and-volley game to defeat Gabriela Sabatini 6-0, 6-2 in just 53 minutes Sunday and win the $300,000 Bausch & lomb Championships. 
For the second-seeded Nav­ratilova, it was her fifth straight tournament title this year and the second time in as many weeks she has defeated Sabatini in a final. 
"I played well and she didn't. It's as simple as that," said Navratilova, 31, of Fort Worth, Texas. 
Sabatini's performance did not match her effort in the semifinals Saturday when she rallied from a 3-0 deficit in the final set to beat top-ranked Steffi Graf of West Germany, 6-3, 4-6, 7-5. 
"I was expecting the worst," Navratilova said. "I was think­ing she'd play great and she'd be on a high from yesterday." 
But Navratilova never al­lowed the third-seeded Sabatini to solidify her baseline game on the slow clay courts at Amelia Island Plantation. Nav­ratilova kept Sabatini guessing with strong serves and crisp put-away volleys. 
It wasn't until Sabatini was down 4-0 in the first set that she got her first game points. Sabatini was up 40-0 in the fifth game but squandered three game points and lost her serve. 

You ve come a tong way, baby! 
Happy 19th Maura Weiler 
We love you­The family 
BEUEVE IT OR NO~ THIS GUY IS IN CLASS. 
If you're looking for excitement and adven­ture, you'll find it when you enroll m Army ROTC. It's not your ordinary college elective. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 


c:.,..h"'l"'r"'hiiM This Summer Call Capt. Warrick 239-6264 

r----------~-~-~~ 
Monday, April 18, 1988 
The Observer page 15 

Campus · 
Monday 

An Tostal, April 18 through April 24, 1988. 12 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies seminar (Brown Bag) "Israel and Democracy," by Professor Alan Dowty, Notre Dame. Room 105 Law School. 
4:20 p.m. Physics colloquium "Testing Lattice Fermion Schemes Without a Computer," by Professor Eve Kovacs, Uni­versity of Illinois, Chicago. Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series "Old Maid," 1939, 95 minutes, directed by Edmund Gould­ing, USA. Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Saint Mary's student government lecture "The Naked Truth," by Jean Kilbourne, Wellesley College. Little Theatre. 
8:15 p.m. College of Science John A. Lynch Lectures in the Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Program ''DNA Replication," by Professor Arthur Kornberg, Nobel Laureate, Stanford University School of Medicine. Library auditorium. 
9 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series "Born in Flames," 1963, 96 minutes, directed by Lizzie Borden, independent production. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Sloppy Joe Roast Beef au jus Southern Fried Chicken Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Rotillini with Spring Vegetarian Chow Mein Vegetables Deli Bar Baked Sole with Savory Rice 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
88 Serf of old  Biscayne Bay  
67 Ornament  29 Like  some  
agents  43 Disencumber  52  lsr. dance  
DOWN  32 Ms Thompson  45 Gob  54  Arab gulf  
f  Tex. school  33  Flower spike  48 Ancient  58 Glorlole  
letters  35 Cut grass  ascetic  57  Male ant  
2 Literal  36 Objected  47 Wharf  59  Utilize  
translation  38 Agitate  49  Bread ends  60  Baden  Baden  
3 Atslstant  39 Observations  51  Uncouth boor  61  Hideaway  


Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
rT'S II CIIMPII/6N "'..IN E:KCHIIM£, UE'IJ t!K£ COII170!WTTON ff((}M 7rJ Hill£ )1;tl 5€£ 1HfiT 
• TfE fJNifl!P COCIIINe IINIJTHEK 'If50 fi/U./O!V CF ~RS, N51£R.5 71/K 111~ tJe' 5PeNT ON IINP !Willfl~P 51?Jff!N6 flN07HtfK 1% 
5CIJt1.:: f/H OH. orAtt 5111rJ&(;t£J? I I f?l?f/&5,,. H 
\. 

Calvin and Hobbes 
HER£ I f>.M, Wt>.\T\NG F<JR 
'NAAT KI~D Of ~E BUS. EL£'-IEI't MORE 
WORlD IS 11-\\S ?.1 ~ 
'fEARS Ot SC.\\OCll \0 Go. 
YOU ONL~ GET ~ q
-mEN COLLEGE, \1-\EN Mi\YBE 
Fl~t 'IEAR.S 'I!!! 
GRAOUAIE 9:HOJL, AN\) 1\-\EH 
TO Bt. {>. \1..\D ?f' I 'NORK \JNTIL l DIE. 
.. 
The Daily Crossword 

© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 04/18/BBAll Rights Reserved 
4 UnGisturbed at 
ACROSS 1 Digging Implement 
6 Chin. nurse 10 Opulent 14 Watery silk 15 Marquis de ­16 Noun suffix 11 Standby 19 -Bede 20 Pro vote 21 Hung. dog 22 Verifies 23 Open to 
question 25 Candle 27 Copy 30 Rink stuff 31 Youth gp. 34 Eatery 35 Parent 36 ~aby buggy 37 Pops 38 Biscuit 40 Offensive 41 Iowa city 42 Haul 43 Varnish 
Ingredient 44 Knightly 
title 45 Tiny -sleep 46 Meaningful 5 Poet's word 
name 6 Keen 48 Entice 7 Manhandle 50 Faction 8 Increase 51 Smith at 9 Call for 
times attention 53 Facilitate 10 Depart 55 -Na Na 11 Dense growth 58 Cupid's aim 12 Cicatrix 
LAID 
0 E R
59 Comprehend 13 Sews edges 
NSE SMUT
82 Soviet city 18 Location H A S~ ~~ M E T 0 I H A N 0
83 Machine 22 Imitate carbine 24 Paddle 
0 S S A T R I 
'E''A I
STEN OLLA LIITRE
64 Martinique 28 Pinnacle mount 27 Sagas 
T E N 0 R 0 L L L A 0 S 85 Prevents 28 City on 

ANDA.ONTD SHARE S T I N T 0 I L H A W E 0 SOLDO SNAG.NENE 

ter'5 KeEP 60SH, I'~ 7H05tf COKe flta'AYS 
ffl!C£5 :ihfJ((tfP f3I!£N UN­
f/P/ (Jf? wtU COMfOKTfl, 
5Htlr7T }(tl. WITH 60Vr 
I W/3.5/PES. 
~ 



Sports

page 16 Monday, April 18, 1988 
Irish clinch playoff spot with late rallies 
By STEVE MEGARGEE lot of baseball to play." Notre Dame clinched a spot
Assistant Sports Editor 

in the playoffs with Saturday's 
.. You could tell something was doubleheader sweep of the up when the sprinkler system Titans. But it was anything but went off at Jake Kline Field your average sweep. during the fifth inning of the Detroit held leads of 6-0, 7-1 second game of Saturday's and 8-3 in the first game Satur-Notre Dame-Detroit day. But Notre Dame exploded doubleheader. for five runs in the fifth to take But compared to everything the lead for good. Steve else that happened at Jake Skupien, playing second base Kline Field over the weekend, in place of an injured Mike the sprinkler incident was noth-Moshier, hit the game-winning ing out of the ordinary. single for the Irish as Notre When it was all over, the Dame won 9-8. Skupien's hit Irish had won three of four drove in shortstop Pat games from their Midwestern Pesavento. The throw home ap­Collegiate Conference rivals to · peared to beat Pesavento to the clinch a spot in the conference plate, but the senior from Lock­playoffs and virtually guaran-port, Ill., managed to slide tee themselves of hosting the away from the tag. playoffs. The only way Notre "Skupien had a great day, Dame (23-16, 9-3 in the MCC) and Pesavento will just find a will not be the host is in the way to beat you,'' said Murphy. unlikely circumstances that "Skupien did a nice job at Dayton sweep its eight remain-second base, and he's starting ing conference games or wins to hit the ball. We haven't lost seven of eight and wins a tie-a beat with Skupien in there. breaker. We miss Moshier, but "It made for exciting Skupien's done very well." baseball this weekend," said Tony Livorsi, who came on first-year Irish baseball coach in middle relief for Notre Pat Murphy, "to be 23-16 and Dame, earned his first col­Notre Dame catcher Ed Lund tags out Detroit's in first place in the MCC East legiate victory in the first Tom DIMambro In weekend action at Jake Kline division, but I'm not going to Field. The Irish won three of four games from get complacent. There's still a see CLINCH, page 13 
Denison stops lacrosse winning streak at seven 

By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse 

Glazier said that he was con­fident going into the game and that he didn't feel intimidated by the potent Denison attack. 
faceoffs because they just kept possession and kept scoring goals," Irish senior tri-captain John McNicholas said. "The around, but they had some midfielders that were really gunning from the outside," said junior defenseman Kevin sticks only moments before at­tempting the high percentage shots. 

"They started the game in a 
team paled in comparison to He came up with several big only way we could really get O'Connor. "Stopping shots like zone like we had seen before the Denison Big Red at Moose saves early on that he hoped the ball on offense was if they those is like trying to defense and we ate it up," McNicholas Krause Stadium Saturday as "would pump the team up." dropped it or if Jeff made the a baskeball team with a really said. "But then they started Denison turned a 5-1 deficit into While Glazier was thwarting save." good three-point shooter. Basi­mixing up their defenses and it a 14-6 victory that dropped the the Big Red attack, the Irish Early in the game, Glazier cally they adjusted like they took us time just to see what Irish to 9-2 for the season. offense used a patient attack to and the Irish zone defense shut had to in order to beat our defense they were in. 
The loss snapped the Irish's jump out to a 5-1 lead at the down the Big Red attack. zone." "We felt we could continue to seven game winning streak and 13:58 mark of the second quar­Glazier recorded five saves in Aside from the early five goal take it to them but they started prevented them from setting a ter. But they could do little the first quarter as Denison outburst, the Irish didn't fare to allow us only one shot at the school record of eight consecu­from there on as the Big Red scored only once on eight shots. too well on the offensive end of most each time down. They tive wins. adjusted to the Irish zone and But Himy and the other the field either. The Irish made us pay for our mistakes." 
Junior attackman John mixed up their own defense to Denison midfielders adjusted defense had some problems The Irish continued to have Olmstead led the team with two propel Denison to 11 straight to the Notre Dame zone by clearing the ball past the pesky problems scoring on man-up goals and an assist while soph­goals and an 8-2 record. screening Glazier and taking Denison midfielders, and when situations. They have con­omore attackman Brian Denison's Kurt Himy was low outside shots. The Big Red they did complete the transi­verted only 13 of 71 attempts McHugh contributed two goals. possibly the key player in the struck quickly towards the end tion the offense was unable to this season (slightly below 20 Sophomore goalie Jeff Glazier, game. Himy won 15 of the 22 of the second quarter to tie the get good shots. The team forced percent) and went 0-for-7 starting his first game of the faceoffs and scored three goals game at five, and from then on many bad shots and many against the Big Red Saturday. year, came up with a team on outside shots. Denison had the momentum. times when Irish players pen­"I think they had our main season-high 14 saves in the "That guy <Himy) was really "Jeff played fantastically etrated towards the goal the losing cause. good and he hurt us on the and had a great game all-ball was knocked out of their see LAX, page 13 
•

Defense dominates agatn 
By THERESA KELLY getting a look at life in the look at stats," Holtz said, "but and GREG GUFFEY trenches, and left irish head co­I can't believe Tony could Sports Writers ach Lou Holtz shaking his head. throw the ball any better than 
"It presents an awful lot of he did today. I think with little No flags. problems with a young offen­protection, he was on target Junior Mark Green returned sive line," Holtz said. "They're maybe with one exception." 
the opening kickoff in Friday's young and they're inexperi­Holtz also cited penalties as enced, but they'll learn, they'll a problem the Irish will have grow, they'll benefit and they'll to solve before the 1988 season
SPRIHG be better." starts in September. The of­fense was penalized five times 
FOOTBALL As has been the case all for 52 yards, with the defense 
spring, the Irish defense being flagged five times for 50 dominated, allowing only yards.Green's touchdown and two 
football scrimmage 85 yards field goals by sophomore "We just haven't developed for a touchdown virtually un­Reggie Ho from 30 and 35 that feel," Holtz said. "That's touched by the walk-on special yards. Green also was the re­something you have to get as teams unit. That also was the ceiving star, collecting 70 you go along. It's the missed only touchdown the Irish would yards on three catches. Tony assignments and the lack of score in a scrimmage marred Brooks rushed for 45 yards on fundamentals in the offensive by inconsistent play from the 13 carries, and Antwon Lark line that concerns me the most. offense. averaged 6.0 yards for his 5 People have to play next to one 
.. 
The Irish rushers gained 161 rushing attempts. another and work on their yards on 76 carries for only 2.1 Tony Rice saw the most rhythm and get that thing down yards per carry, while the playing time at quarterback, before thay know exactly what receivers caught 11 of 33 passes completing 6 of 20 passes for 99 they're doing." Tony Rice fakes a handoff to Anthony Johnson during Friday's for 123 yards. Notre Dame's in­yards. football scrimmage. The defense again dominated the scrimmage experienced offensive line was "I know everyone likes to see SPRING, page 12 as the offense could score only 13 points. 





