
[ACCENT: Biff and Muffy tie the knot 
[VIEWPOINT: "Have you ever noticed...?" 




Weekend Wheels to make first run 
VOL. XXII, NO. 40 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26. 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
The a..-I Kim O'Connor 
By JIM LANG News Staff 
BACCHUS will be sponsoring an Alcohol Awareness Week from October 31st to November 3rd, Mike Verbaro told the Hall President's Council at last night's meeting. 
Featured at 7:30 p.m. Wed­nesday, Nov. 2 in the Monogram room of LaFortune will be a talk by the mother of Len Bias, former Maryland basketball star who died in 1986 of a cocaine overdose. 
She will be speaking about the effects of drug and alcohol abuse on the family and its values. 
On Thursday night Digger Phelps will be the defendant in a mock trial, prosecuted by vol-

Hi I e r and Ward to meet i n debate in JACC Thursday 
By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter 
Students on campus will get a taste of congressional politics Thursday night when the 3rd Congressional District candi­dates square off iri a debate in the Joyce ACC. 
Incumbent Republican John Hiler will face Democrat Tom Ward, a Notre Dame graduate, in a one hour debate arranged, sponsored and moderated solely by students. 
Student assaulted in Dillon over the weekend by two unknown people 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporter 
A student was attacked and injured in Dillon Hall last Saturday night follow­ing the Air Force game. 
Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Security, said the assault occurred on Satur­day, October 22, at 8:45P.M. There are two male suspects who were allegedly accom­panied by a female, accor­ding to Johnson. 
Johnson said that the first suspect called out to the Dil­lon resident as he walked by. The two exchanged words and one suspect struck the student, while the other suspect assaulted the stu­dent twice, in the eye and cheek, said Johnson. 
Johnson said that follow­ing the attack the student retreated and the suspects left. "The student is not on campus, he went home to seek medical attention," unteers from the law school for a drunk driving offence. 
In addition to these events, Bacchus will be sponsoring lunchtime chats at noon from Monday through Thursday in the Dooley F oom of LaFortune. 
,
That same week will also fea­ture SUB's first annual "Quest ~ 
1 
for the Crown" weeklong fes­1 tival, the primary focus of I which will be daily competi­1 
1
tions between dorms for cash 
I
prizes and trophies, according to SUB representative Raja Singh. 
The dorms will be paired in teams of one male and one 
The Observer I Klm O'Connor
female dorm, and will compete 
in such events as an obstacle 
Junior John Brannigan, sophomore Steve Baumer, class yesterday afternoon in front of the Hesburgh 
see HPC, page 4 and junior Sandy Henson (left to right) review returned Library. 
exams from their Ancient and Medieval Philosophy 
The debate represents a \lnique opportunity for students to "make a statement on na­tional politics," said Mike Paese, student body vice pres­ident. 
"If Notre Dame votes in a block, it will determine the election," Paese said, noting the narrow margin in Hiler's victory over Ward in 1986. The 3rd district race then was the closest congressional race in the nation. Hiler edged Ward 
said Johnson. "I don't have 
any additional information 
on the injuries of the stu­
dent." 
The student was not hospi­talized, but he did go to the Student Health Center, ac­cording to Johnson. 

The first suspect is a black male, six feet tall, with a lanky build. Johnson said that he was also described as having short hair, 19 to 20 years old, and was wearing a grey sweatshirt. Johnson said that the first suspect was intoxicated at the time of the incident. 
The second suspect was described as a black male, five feet, ten inches, with a medium build. Johnson said that he has short hair, 19 to 20 years old, and was wearing dark grey. 
The third individual pres­ent, though not involved in the assault, was described as a black female, five feet, two inches to five feet, four by only 47 votes, after more than a two-month recount. 

The Notre Dame debate is an important campus event for two reasons, said Mike Keegan, student government's executive coordinator for poli­tical, cultural and social con­cerns. 
"We show (Hiler and Ward and the local community) that we're concerned with politics and that we're concerned with 
see DEBATE, page 4 

inches, medium build, 19 to 20 years old, according to se­curity. 
Johnson said, "Apparently there were people present who saw the suspects and may know something about them." 
"We, at this time, have no idea who they were. Any in­formation is important be­cause the injuries were serious enough for the stu­dent to go home," said Johnson. 
"Right now we are hopeful 
that someone knows who the 
people are and what they 
were doing in the residence 
hall. We believe that people 
know who they are and what 
they were doing," said 
Johnson. 

Any information about the 
suspects, who they were 
visiting, or the type of vehi­
cle the suspects left in, 
should be directed to 
campus security. 

.-H-i1e-r-v---=i-s=----its--=A_m_e_r-=--ic-a-n----t Studies students at ND 
By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter 

Rep. John Hiler, 3rd Con­,gressional District incum­bent, made a special visit to Notre Dame yesterday to talk with students in Amer­ican Studies Professor Robert Schmuhl's class. 
Hiler told students in Schmuhl's "American Poli­tical Life" class about his campaign for Indiana's con­gressional seat and about his opponent, Tom Ward, a Notre Dame graduate. 
"It's a difficult balancing act," Hiler said, adding that he has split his legislating with his campaign responsi­bilities, which officially began last December. 
The Republican divides his working week between Indiana and Washington, 
see HILER, page 6 

A cooler holiday 
Frank and Ed, the Bartles and James wine cooler representatives, find a home among the Halloween decorations in a sophomore's room In Howard Hall. 
' 
page 2 
IN BRIEF . 
The Rolling Stones the Temptations, Stevie Wonder, Dion and Otis Redding have been elected to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. This year, the Hall of Fame also will honor three early influences on rock 'n' roll: the blues singer Bessie Smith, the vocal quartet the Ink Spots and the gospel group the Soul Stirrers, of which the late Sam Cooke -himself an icon of soul music -was once a member. Induction ceremonies are planned in New York for Jan. 
18. -Associated Press 
He ate hamburgers with Marilyn Monroe and stood up Ava Gardner and "It Wasn't All Velvet," according to the title of singer Mel Torme's just-out autobiography. Torme is now enjoying a new audience he refers to as "a gang of yuppies" who've learned about him through appearances on TV's "Night Court." "We began to meet late at night," he wrote of Monroe, following the actress' divorce in the 1950s from baseball great Joe DiMaggio. "She loved Dolores' Drive-In for hamburgers. Several nights we sat in my car, eating those tasty burgers and talking I about everything. -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
A Mock Presidential Press Conference will be held in an effort to confront current issues before the elec­tion. Students from ND will be representing both the reporters and the candidates. Today at 7:30p.m. in Grace Pit. 
-The Observer 

College Democrats of ND-SMC will hold a forum concerning women's issues in the November elections today at 7:30p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFor­tune Student Center. Mrs. Georgia Boggs, member of the National Organization for Women, will speak. 
-The Observer 

Voter Information: Student Government will have a voter information desk at the O'Hara Lounge in LaFortune every afternoon from 12 to 6 p.m. until Election Day. -The Observer 
AnyStudentVolunteersinterestedindrivingdisabled students to and from class one hour per week should call Mike at X3305 or Pete at X3280. 
-The Observer 

Omicron Delta Epsilon the Economics Honor Society is sponsoring a free spaghetti dinner today from 5:30 to 
6:30 p.m. in the basement of Morrissey Hall for those interested in learning more about ODE. 
-The Observer 

Today a Peace Corps Representative will be at the Center for Social Concerns from 9-12 a.m. for consulta­tion with those interested in volunteering after graduation. There will also be a film about the Peace Corps shown in the Multi-Purpose room of the Center for Social Concerns at 6:30p.m. 
-The Observer 

Grace Hall Debate Series will begin today at 9:00 
p.m. in the Pit in Grace Hall. The issue will be: "The executive officers of any company which illegally pollutes the environment should serve mandatory jail time." 
-The Observer 

Right to Life Counselors will meet today at 8:00 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
-The Observer 

Design Editor .. . .............. Alison Cocks Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Gliwa Typesetters............ . . . . . . . . Mike Kolar ........................................ Mark Derwent News Editor ... ............. Colleen Cronin Copy Editor.. . ......... Christine Walsh Sports Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor. Cindy Broderick Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kerri Owens 

'Be QlleerYer (USPS ~99 2-<4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durilll cum and vacation periods. 'Be QlleerYer is published by the students of the University of Notte Dame aqd Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2!1 per semester) by writina 'Be ~er, P .0. Box Q, Nouc Dule, lndi&Da ~556. 
'Be OlleerYer is a member of 'Be Mlodaee.l rn.. All reproduction ripts are racrved. 
Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy Accent Designer .....•............. Jim Barrett Typist .. .... .. .... ......... . ...... Val Poletto .............................................. Sue Barton ND Day Editor...... .. .... Sandy Roth SMC Day Editor .. .. Sarah Demel Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Sports Grand Inquisitor ...... Matt Breslin 
~---------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 26, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 



Who is the "They" who seems to rule us? 
They say you shouldn't wear white shoes after Labor Day. They say you can never be too rich or too thin. They say men reach their sexual peak at age 17. They say these are the best years of our lives. 
Well, who are They and why do we listen to them? 
Some people take comfort in assuming these people are somewhere in Europe, or the West Coast --stereotypically the trend-setting regions of the world. 
When my roommate was four years old, her older and wiser cousin told her there was a big tall building in New York City that had T-H-E-Y spelled in huge blinking neon letters across the top of it and the people who worked there made up all the rules and passed them out to the world. 
That's about as good as any explanation for these masters of fad and fashion and omnis­cients on proper living. The quintessential "They" comprise a pretty powerful force run­ning through our society for a bunch of people we have never met. They control our conduct, our dollars and sometimes our self-evaluation. 
I remember when it was absolutely necessary to have a big purple plastic comb with some­thing like "TUSH" written on it in the back right pocket of my skating jeans (without studs) and roller skates with green wheels and match­ing pom-pons with the little bells in them every Friday night. We'd skate to "Saturday Night" by K.C. and the Sunshine Band, something from The Village People or maybe a couple skate to a Journey ballad. 
Everybody who was anybody or trying to be anybody was at the Rollercade because it was the thing to do. Says who? But we all went, even if we didn't really like to skate. 
Now, just because we drive ourselves to slightly different places to congregate with our peers doesn't mean we've shaken the desire to do the in thing in style. 
On October 6, my roommates and I counted 87 brown leather flight jackets on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students at the Saint Mary's Beer Gardens, Senior Bar and The Commons. There were too many people at Bridget's to add to this number. 
Last year, it was jean jackets, but it's always something. Hey, everybody needs a coat, right? Why not buy the one They are wearing? You can just picture Them sittng around at a meeting in someplace like Topeka, Kansas, drinking Cappucino and laughing at what They've created ... because They know how we feel about committing Faux Pas--in anyth­ing. 
But They don't limit Themselves to guiding us through the materialistic fashion world. For some reason, there is also a mysterious author­ity attached to statements like "They're saying now that both red and white wines are accep­table with all kinds of meat, pasta and fish." Great. Thanks guys. Now, if They can only come up with something about how to get let­tuce off our teeth at fancy restaurants without making that gauche saliva sound, we'll be so relieved. 


Everybody needs some stability in life, and maybe that's what They're for. Could be. There's a little conformist in everybody. Most of us wear clothes every day and it's nice to have some help choosing them, especially for those of us who aren't really morning people and can't make such decisions at ungodly hours. It's also nice to know we can impress our friends with things They say, like ''Everything happens for a reason" and "Money can't buy happi­ness." 
But whoever They are and whether or not They are right, They've got us, because nobody wants to be wrong and nobody wants to be out of it. As long as we all know what They say, we don't need to know who They are. 
But if only we knew how to become one of Them, then we'd be in business--the coat busi­ness, the comb business, the music business and the wine business. 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. tqrdetails. 
has classic rock: 
ac/dc • aerosmith • bachman turner overdrive • bad company the band • beach boys • the beatles • blue oyster cult • boston david bowie • jimmy buffet • the byrds • the cars • eric clapton jimmy cliff • cream • credence clearwater revival • jim croce crosby stills nash & young • deep purple • dire straits • the doobie brothers • the doors • bob dylan • the eagles • electric light orchestra • emerson lake & palmer • fleetwood mac foreigner • free • peter gabriel • genesis • grand funk railroad the grateful dead • the guess who • george harrison • heart jiml hendrix • the james gang • Jethro tull • billy joel • elton john • kansas • the kinks • led zeppelin • john lennon • lynyrd skynyrd • paul m•cartney • bob marley & the wallers • john cougar mellencamp • steve miller band • moody blues • van .morrlsson • tom petty & the heartbreakers • pink floyd • robert ~lant • the police • lou reed • rolling stones • rush • santana scorpions • simon & garfunkel • bruce sprlngsteen • steely dan steppenwolf • cat stevens • rod stewart • sting • supertramp james taylor • traffic • u2 • joe walsh • the who • wings • yes 
neil young • zz top • 

visa and mastercard accepted hours: mon••fri. 12·8 basement of u••~n•~u1n~ 
-~-~-l 

Wednesday, October 26, 1988 The Observer page 3 
ND Peace Corps volunteers talk to interested .students 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN tion, engineering, business and and is on the board of directors, 
News Staff libral arts. Most of the Peace according to McQuestion. Corps programs require a four­Notre Dame has a long tradi­
Two returning Peace Corps year degree or three to five tion of volunteers and has one volunteers were on campus years of relevant working ex­of the highest percentage of ap­yesterday and today to talk to perience. plicants of colleges and univer­students interested in joining Interested seniors and sities. Last year, 15 Notre the Peace Corps after gradua­graduate students are invited Dame graduates joined the tion. to apply. The acceptance rate Peace Corps. 
Stephen Rypkema, the area to the Peace Corps is about one McQuestion said a common Peace Corps representative, out of four or five, according to reason Notre Dame applicants and Michael McQuestion, a McQuestion. ·cited for joining the Peace Notre Dame graduate, both Rypkema served in the Corps was ''that they had been served as volunteers to the Peace Corps from 1984 to 1986, given so much in life, and now Peace Corps in the Philippines. in the Philippines, ip the they want to give some of it 
An information table for the Forestry and Agriculture Pro­back. It is a theological idea, a two-year program is set up in gram. very sincere one." the Hesburgh Library con­McQuestion, a pre-med course and at St. Mary's, in major while at Notre Dame, The Peace Corps, a U.S. Gov­LeMans. served three years in the ernment Agency, provides vol­
Today, there will be a Peace Philippines, from 1974 to 1977, unteers, who share their skills Corps film and open discussion in the Rural Public Health Pro­and energy with people of de­at the Center for Social Con­gram. Now, he is the super­veloping countries for a two cerns, at 7 p.m. On November visor of PolioPlus, of the Ro­year period. 3 and 4, Peace Corps represen­tary International Foundation. tatives will be on campus to in­Notre Dame has a close con­Today there are almost 6,000terview interested students. nection with the Peace Corps. volunteers working in 66 devel­
Rypkema said the Peace Father Hesburgh, former pres­oping countries, in Asia,Corps is looking for people in ident of the university, helped Africa, Latin America, and the sciences, health care, educa-in the initiation of the service Pacific. 
Reagan creates new federal office of Veteran Affairs 
Associated Press members: Welcome aboard!"' tumn sun in front of a columned no increases in compensation and we came prepared to make 
said Reagan, the self­building of the National War or improvements in health a case," Holt recalled in a tele­
WASHINGTON --Saying proclaimed enemy of an ex­College at Fort McNair, the care. phone interview. "But when he America's debt to military men panding federal government, president signed into law the Cooper Holt, executive direc­came in, he apparently had and women doesn't end "the who once suggested abolishing bill creating the Department of tor of the Washington office of decided against some of his ad­day the uniform comes off," the departments of Education Veterans Affairs, effective the Veterans of Foreign Wars, visers, and he said he wanted President Reagan signed legis­and Energy. March 15. said he recalled the day -last to do it." lation Tuesday giving veterans Reagan said the bill gives Spokesmen for veterans or­Nov. 10-that Reagan signaled Supporters of the legislation a Cabinet-level voice for the veterans "what they have ganizations applauded the he had accepted Cabinet-level had argued that the Veterans first time. deserved so long -a seat at the elevation of veterans issues in status for veterans. Administration already has the 
"I'm saying to all our veter­table of our national affairs." the councils of government, but "There were ·several of us fifth-largest budget among ans what I say to new Cabinet Sitting under a sparkling au-noted that the legislation offers over there at the White House, federal agencies . 

Wednesday, October 26, 1988
The Observer
page 4 

Eve of election in S.Africa is violent 
Associated Press as the number expected this 
time. 
JOHANNESBURG, South Critics say figures for blacks Mrica --Police used tear gas, will be virtually meaningless rubber bullets and clubs Tues­because so few are registered day to scatter crowds protest­and no local candidates repre­ing segregated local elections. sent major organization!> op­
Anti-apartheid leaders urged posed to the official apartheid blacks to boycott the vote, but policy of racial separation. without violence. Most leading opposition 
About 7,000 local offices groups are banned and ac­nationwide are at stake in the tivists generally view black elections today, the first time town councils as subservient to people of this racially the government controlled by separated nation will have cast South .Africa's 5 million whites. ballots on the same day. "If we were asked to vote in 
The 26 million blacks vote today's township conditions, only locally and have no voice we would not do so," the na­in national affairs. tion's largest daily newspaper, 
the independent Star of Johan­
President Botha's ruling Na­nesburg, said in an editorial. tional Party is expected to lose "Whatever statistics are squir­ground in white elections to the reled out to justify the staunchly pro-apartheid Con­legitimacy of elected black servative Party, which opposes councils, they will have no ef­the government's tentative fect on reality." moves toward reform. Archbishop Desmond Tutu 
Fewer than 500,000 of the 2.4 and other black anti-apartheid million registered blacks are leaders have defied rules of 2­expected to vote, despite an year-old state of emergency in ambitious government promo­advocating a boycott. Botha's tional campaign. government seeks a high tur­
Low turnouts also are an­nout among blacks as support ticipated in townships pop­for its claim of "broadening ulated by people of mixed race, democracy" in South Mrica. officially called "coloreds," More than 1,000 people held and those known as Asians, an anti-voting rally Tuesday at who are predominantly of In­the University of the Wit­dian descent. watersrand in Johannesburg 
A chamber of the national and many, including black ac­parliament, with little power, tivist Winnie Mandela, was created for each group in marched to a campus gateway. 1984. Riot police ordered them to 
About 21 percent of the regis­disperse, then fired tear gas tered black voters cast ballots and rubber bullets. Authorities in the last black municipal elec­said there were no injuries or tions in 1983, roughly the same arrests. 


Join the caravan 
Mary Lopez and Ed Meehan speak with Christine D'Addio from Albany Law School at Stepan Center 


Wages and inflation have shown marked increase in past year 
Associated Press  pay raises and higher benefit  costs resulted primarily from  
costs have sent total employer  a  rise  last  January  in  
WASHINGTON  -­ Wages in  costs up 4.7 percent in the 12  employers' Social Security tax  
the past 12 months have risen  months  ending  Oct.  1,  com­ rate from 7.15 percent to 7.51  
an average 3.9 percent, while  pared with a 3.4 percent rise in  percent, the Labor Department  
private  employer  costs  for  the previous 12-month period,  said.  
benefits  have  soared  6.7  the Labor Department said.  It also cited large increases  
percent-more than double the  Inflation, as measured by the  in health insurance costs and  
previous year-largely  on  in­ Consumer  Price  Index,  has  lump-sum  bonus  payments  
creases  in  Social  Security  risen by 4.2 percent over the  from  profit-sharing  arrange­ 
taxes,  the  government  said  past  12  months,  the  govern­ ments, which  are  now  calcu­ 
Tuesday.  ment reported last week.  lated by the government as a  
The combined effect of the  The steep increase in benefit  benefit rather than a wage.  
The DePaul University  

Professional Master of Science in Accountancy Program 
1989 Liberal Arts and Sciences Graduates: 
a .\peria/ an nounrnnent ronrerning 
rareers in business .ljJerifiral~\' for 
Liberal A11s and Srienres studmts. 
The School of Accountancv of DePaul The 15-month program entails: Cnlversity, Chicago, Illino.is, a TJ­• immediate Uune 1989) emplovment vear leader in innovative accounting in the Chicago office of a sponsoring 
accounting firm.
~ducation, oflers to selected graduates 
• an accelerated cour~e of studv inof prestigious Liberal Arts and business and accounting-a growthSciences programs the Professional industrv-at Chicago's DePatilMaster of Science in Accountancv. 
L'ni1·ersin·. 
The program is offered in conjunction 
Successfui completion of the DePaul 
with the nation's leading accounting 

PMSA Program results in: firms, is highly competitive, and 
• A :vtaster of Science in Accountancv 

restricted to students sponsored b\ degree from the Craduate School <lf the participating accounting firms. Business of DePaul L'niversit1 
• Full-time business and accou;Hing
The PMSA Program begins the week 
experience with a major accountingof June 19, 19H9. Recruiting fin· the firm 
program is currentlv in progress. 
• 
Eligibilitv to sit f<H· the CPA Examina­tion in Illinois 

• 
Broad career opportunities, and advancement, in professional account­ing with vour sponsoring firm. 








DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 
For more inh>rmation on the PMSA Program, contact the placement office on this campus, which is cooperating with this program, or Dr. John T. Ahern, Jr., Director, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson, Chicago, Illinois 60604, 
(312) 341-8770. . 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
course, scavenger hunt, and tug-of-war. 
Along with the daily competi­
tions, SUB will also be sponsor­
ing nightly social activities 
such as movies, performers, 
and parties. 
In other HPC news, Weekend Wheels will be operating for the first time this weekend, accor­ding to HPC co-chairperson Michelle LaRose, and this year's easy to find stops should make the bus more accessible to students stranded at the bars. 
Carroll Hall's Haunted House will be this Saturday from 8 to 12 p.m. Admission will be $1. 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
issues larger than ourselves," Keegan said. "This is a very important precedent." 
A six-member student panel moderated by Keegan will question each candidate on campaign issues during the debate in the concourse of the JACC, Paese said. 
The debate, sponsored by the Notre Dame student govern­ment, will begin at 8:30 p.m. Thursday and is open to the public. Free tickets for reserved seating are available at the Information Desk in LaFortune. 
Local media will attend, but the debate will not be televised, Paese said. 
Debate issues will range from education to foreign policy, Paese said. "It will be completely issue-oriented. All of our questions will be com­pletely, beginning to end, is­sues." 
Information on the Hiler and Ward campaigns, the presiden­tial election and other elections is available in the O'Hara 
Lounge on LaFortune's first 
floor from now until Election 
Day on Nov. 8, Keegan said. 
Paese said both camps have 

been very cooperative in pre­
paring for the debate. An exec­
utive committee set up by stu­
dent government has been 
planning the event, he said. 
Committee members in­

clude: Student Body President 
Tom Doyle; Vice President 
MikePaese; Mike Keegan; Ob­
server Editor Chris Murphy; 
Victor Krebs, president of the 
graduate student union; Julie 
Parrish, Saint Mary's student 
body president. 
Mike Moynihan of Notre 

Dame student government; Chris Devron of WVFI-AM; Bob Hawkins, ideas and issues comm1sswner for Student Union Board; College Republicans President Matt Gallagher and College Democrats President Karl Kronenberger. 
Mike Danch, general manager of the JACC, was in­strumental in obtaining the JACC for the debate, Paese said. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

) i-· ~ ""--...... ~~ ..... /// ! 
................-~.~~ 
' 
OOff'T DIIVI DltUNK,otr RIIK WITH A.'fOH( WHO DOH 

Wednesday, October 26, 1988 The Observer page 5 

Gov. Cuomo regrets his advice given to Dukakis 
Associated Press But Cuomo said he may have Cuomo continued on to In­be as large a landslide as I had presidential running mate. 
overestimated many American dianapolis later in the day for figured." 
INDIANAPOLIS--New York voters when he advised more campaigning on behalf of Cuomo has defined a Among other things, Cuomo Gov. Mario Cuomo said Tues­Dukakis not to respond to at­Dukakis and other Democratic "landslide" as 52 percent of the has said Quayle "appears to be day he gave Michael Dukakis tacks by the Bush camp. candidates. vote or larger. of limited intelligence." bad advice about ignoring at­"I said I believe the people Cuomo successfully In Indianapolis, Cuomo was tacks by Republican George are smarter than that," Cuomo portrayed himself as the under­to attend two fund-raising "They wanted somebody Bush, and he now believes the said of his advice to Dukakis. dog in his 1982 Democratic pri­events for Democratic guber­who was not more formidable Massachusetts governor "I'll tell you something. I was mary for governor in New York natorial candidate Evan Bayh, than Bush," said Cuomo last should capitalize on the under­dead wrong. A lot of people against New York City Mayor one a $500-a-person reception month of Quayle's selection. dog's role and "play the were fooled, if you judge it by Cuomo. for major Indiana Democratic "It took them awhile, but they 'Rocky' music everywhere." the polls." campaign contributors and the found one." 
"You are an underdog, use Cuomo made his comments While Cuomo continued to other a $100-a-person dinner at it," Cuomo said of his latest re­on a flight from Albany, N.Y., predict a Dukakis victory over which Cuomo was to speak. Asked Tuesday whether he'd commendation to Dukakis. to Chicago and later in a speech Bush which he said would come Cuomo's appearance in In­keep attacking Quayle even in 
"They'll (the American public) to about 300 Chicago-area together the last four days of dianapolis came after his harsh his home state, Cuomo said, "I give you an extra listen. They'll Democrats who paid $300 each the campaign, he said the attacks against Indiana Sen. prefer to keep the case as pos­lean forward out of respect." to hear the New York governor. Dukakis win would "maybe not Dan Quayle, Bush's vice itive as I can." 

Missing Purdue student turns himself in to police 
Associated Press they would not give him their birthday on Friday, when he 
permission, according to uni­will become a U.S. citizen. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-­versity spokesman Joe Ben­Police tracked Semen to Ot­A Purdue University freshman nett. terbein, about 25 miles east of missing for more than a week University police said Semen the Illinois state line, where a turned himself in unharmed to told authorities Monday that he service station worker said the Chicago authorities, the uni­had left Purdue because of youth had stopped in last Tues­versity said Tuesday. various pressures he didn't day, wearing a back back. 
Branko Semen, 17, went to believe he could handle. Cindy Payne, who operates Chicago police early Monday Semen said he had walked the service station, said Semen evening. He was taken to the most of the 100 miles to had asked for a map and a com­Transitional Living Program, Kankakee, Ill., and had taken pass. She had neither, "so he a facility for lost juveniles and a bus from there to Chicago. just walked out the door and runaways, where he was Bennett said police did not headed toward Illinois," Payne waiting to be picked up by his know why the youth had turned said. parents on Tuesday, aut­himself in, but Semen did tell horities said. authorities he intended to Semen's friends at the dor­
Semen, a science student return to the university. mitory complex where he lives from Merrillville, was last seen Campus police had asked said he had not talked about on campus Oct. 18. His parents, state police agencies in In­leaving the university and had Mr. and Mrs. Josef Semen, told diana, Illinois and other states not appeared unhappy. His sud­police their son wanted to leave to join in the search for Semen, den disappearance was Purdue and join the Army, but a German citizen until his 18th perplexing, they said. 

You can judge some books by their covers. 
C 
onviser Duffy & Miller knows how to write books that get great reviews. With our name on the cover, you are assured of getting the most compre­hensive study aids available. The Conviser Duffy & Miller textbook series is updated throughout the year to provide ~·ou with the most current information you'll need to achieve your goal. 
Our books represent an integral part of our highly re­spected program. Respected enough to be incorporated as part of the educational curric­ulum at major universities throughout the country. 
Our review series has even more to offer. Before you get into the books, Conviser Duffy & Miller has designed compu­terized diagnostic "Pre-Tests" to formulate personal study plans that will further encour­age your involvement in classes administered live by accounting professionals. Maybe that's why over 75% of all our students become CPAs. 
With the Conviser Duffy & Miller CPA Review ... you're bound for success. 
1-800-274-EXAM 
CONVISER 
~-----OUFFYttMILLER 
IJ 

page 6 
US remembers 
attack on 
Associated Press 
ST. GEORGE'S, grenada -­AU.S. Navy band played "God Bless America" and sailors from the frigate USS Simpson marched in review Tuesday as Grenadians celebrated the fifth anniversary of a U.S. invasion that ousted a Marxist junta. 
Navy Secretary William Ball III and other U.S. officials joined a crowd of about 1,500 for a military parade in the Queen's Park sports stadium to mark the invasion. 
Oct. 25 is now known as Thanksgiving Day on the island and is a national holiday. 
The American marchers were joined by Grenada's 
police force and coast guard. A police unit marched in a forma­tion that made the number five, for the anniversary. 
A message from President Reagan read by Ball said r Grenada had made major 
r 
progress since 1983, and paid tribute to the 19 American ser­vicemen killed in the invasion of the nation twice the size of Washington, D.C., declaring: "The Grenada that we know today, a free, peaceful country, is the best confirmation that those lives were not lost in vain." 
The United States, joined by seven Eastern Caribbean na-
Grenada 

tions that . provided token forces, sent 6,000 Marines and paratroopers to Grenada to ex­pel a Marxist military junta that had seized power in a coup. 
Six days earlier, soldiers had executed Prime Minister Maurice Bishop and 10 other of­ficials of his leftist govern­ment, killed scores of bystanders with mortars and automatic weapons and placed the country under 24-hour cur­
few. 
Bishop was overthrown as a result of factional feuding within his government. 
The U.S. military interven­tion was widely criticized abroad as a violation of Grenada's sovereignty. 
The Reagan administration said the invasion was mounted at the request of the Organiza­tion of Eastern Caribbean States, which feared Cuba would use Grenada as a staging area communist aggression in the region. Cuba denied any ag­gressive aims in Grenada. 
Grenada's 94,100 residents generally regard the invasion, which the Reagan administra­tion called a "rescue mission," as a liberation from repression and near-anarchy. 
In a speech Tuesday, Prime Minister Herbert Blaize chided Grenadians "who were on their knees in 1983" .but had forgot­

----·--~--------------------------------, 
The Observer Wednesday, October 26, 1988 

Fine feathered friends 
temperatures, it won't be long before the birds seek A gaggle of geese cross the road behind Lyons Hall, refuge in warmer climates, and the traffic problem is 
holding up traffic momentarily. With the recent frigid solved. 
ten "the deliverance that God had worked for them." 
"It was God who sent the Americans and Caribbean forces to deliver them," Blaize said. 
A memorial service was held at the St. George's University School of Medicine on Grand Anse Beach, where 480 Ameri­can students were evacuated by helicopter. 
A bronze monument on the campus bears the names of the 19 U.S. servicemen who died in the operation. Forty-four Grenadians and 24 Cubans also were killed. 

Since the invasion, the United States has poured $110 million into Grenada to finish an international airport started by Cuba, pave hundreds of miles of potholed roads and im­prove electricity, telephone and water systems. 
Parliamentary democracy is well-established and tourism has improved, but not to the ex­tent expected just after the in­vasion. 
A hoped-for flood of U.S. busi­ness investment has not materialized and the island's 
economy,  still  based  on  
agriculture,  continues  to  
struggle.  

Aeroperu plane crashes in Andes killing almost 20 
Associated Press 
LIMA, peru --An Aeroperu plane carrying 69 people crashed in the Andes shortly after takeoff Tuesday, killing at least 19 people, authorities reported. 
They said the 50 other pas­sengers and crew were injured. 
Some passengers were believed to be foreign tourists, the officials reported, but they did not release the identities or nationalities of the dead and in-
Hiler 
continued from page 1 
D.C. He said he has logged more than 525,000 Frequent Flier miles. 
Regarding negative com­mercial spots by his opponent Tom Ward, Hiler said "com­parative spots are part of the 1988 campaign." "He's had ads on saying I lie and he's had the ad on my family," Hiler said. 
"This is the first time the Republicans have responded to this stuff. I think if it's fair for one side, it's fair for both," he said. "This is not a business for the timid." 
The American people have news given to them in very short form because that's what they want to buy, Hiler said. "I think the American people vote on where they want to see the country headed based on a given philosophy of govern­ment," he said. 
"I don't think they have to know issues in depth to make a rational decision on who they want to run the country," he said. 
Hiler, who defeated Ward in the 1986 race by a mere 47 votes, said he thinks he will win again. "I would not have gotten into this race last December if I thought I wasn't going to win. I think it will be a close race, in the 2,000 to 3,000-vote jured. Lima police said five of the injured were foreigners. 
Officials said the cause of the crash had not been determined. A Peruvian congressman on Aeroperu Flight 771 said there was an explosion aboard just after takeoff. 
Reports on the number of deaths conflicted. 
Puno state Gov. Victor Ur­biola put the toll at 22. He spoke in a radio interview after visit­ing the crash site 540 miles southeast of Lima. 
Dr. Percy Cadenas, chief physician at the Juliaca hospi­tal, where the injured were taken, said as many as 20 people perished. 
Jose Guerra, president of the state-run airline, said the plane was filled to capacity with 69 people and 50 survived the crash, which occurred soon after the Dutch-built Fokker F­28left the Manco Capac airport at Juliaca in the Andes. The twin-jet plane was en route to Arequipa, Peru's second-

range." six weeks ago to speak to the 
Hiler, 35, has a wife and two class. "I was interested in young daughters. He has been someone in public office and he in public office for eight years. was a natural choice because 
Based on his students' inter­he was in local and national est, Schmuhl asked Hiler about politics," Schmuhl said. 
CaMPus 
every Thursday evening 
now in progress 
conducted by: Fr. A. D'Aionzo, esc 
October 27 
7:00 PM to 8:00 PM 
Ministry Conference Room Badin Hall For information: 239-5577 
OFFICE OF 
Sponsored by 
UNIVERSITY MINISTRY 
University of Notre Dome 
Notre Dome. IN 46556 ~

•
the Office of Campus Ministry •
• 

largest city 120 miles southwest two and the rear section burst of Juliaca. into flames. 
Tourists often take the flight to visit Lake Titicaca, in Police in Juliaca said four Bolivia near Juliaca. Peruvian legislators, a senator 
Officials said many pas­and three congressmen, were sengers and crew suffered among the victims but did not burns when the plane broke in give their conditions. 
~ F-~NATIONAL FUTURES ASSOCIATIOII 
YOUR 
FUTURE 
IN 
FUTURES 
The Compliance Department of National Futures Association is hosting a reception on Thursday. Odober 27. 1968 from 7:00 P_M_ to 9:00 P_M_ at the University Club 
NFA. the nationwide self-regulatory orga.nization for the futures industry. conHnualty seeks qualified Accounting and Anance graduates lor Stan Auditor positions_ NFA will be interviewing on ~mpus: November 1 at Notre Dame November 2 at St Ma,Ys 
Learn about a challenging career in a fMt-growing and exciting inclu:;try Juniors and Seniors majoring in Accounting or Finance are Invited to the reception. Refreshments will be servecl. 
GO IRISH BEATNA 1/r!// 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
Wednesday, October 26, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
i 
' 
·.~ 
.· •.,,, t 

.~~~A~.. filL-~ J ,.•
. p , \ 
. '( 


AP Photo 

Just another pretty face Ocean ice near Barrow, Alaska, Monday. Efforts to 
free the two whales imprisoned in the ice have not Native whaler Delbert Rexford pets one of the two been successful. They have been trapped for more California gray whales that are trapped in the Arctic than two weeks. 
Associated Press 
OCOTILLO, Calif. --An Army National Guard helicop­ter on a nighttime anti-drug smuggling mission clipped a power line and smashed into a desert hillside, killing the five lawmen and three guardsmen aboard, officials said Tuesday. 
The fiery crash Monday came on the first night of Op­eration Border Ranger, a joint anti-drug smuggling program conducted by six Southern Cal­ifornia sheriff's departments and the federal government, said National Guard Maj. Steve Mensik. 
The program to stem the flow of drugs into the United States from Mexico has been suspended while the accident investigation is carried out, he said. 
The UH-1H aircraft crashed while investigating a car 
Various research programs received nearly $800,000 total 
Special to the Observer various programs. Research funds totaled $364,200 includ­
The University of Notre ing: Dame received $760,509 in $128,740 from the National In­grants during September for stitutes of Health for research the support of research and on the ecology of vectors of the 
COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
When vou need a full service copy shop ~fore work or after hours. depend on Kinko's. 
kinko•s· 
the copy center 
18187 Sla!e Road 23 
271-0398 
ND-SMC Right to Life Presents 2nd Annual Respect Life Mass & Dinner 
Thursday Oct. 27 
5: 15 Mass in Sacred Heart Celebrant: Bishop D' Arcy 
6:30 Dinner inS. Faculty Dining Hall --Speaker Prof. Charles Rice 
8:00 Mute Court Rm. Law School 
Steven Mosher "China's Forced Abortion Policy" 
tickets for dinner $7.50 students information call ND-4832 
Helicopter crashes killing eight men 
Jamestown Canyon virus by Hank professor of aerospace Paul Grimstad, associate pro­and mechanical engineering. fessor of biological sciences. $21,960 from the Whirlpool 
$100,000 from the U.S. Depar­Corporation for a Whirlpool tment of Agriculture for re­Corporation fellowship in search on the molecular genet­engineering, administers by ics of the heliothis zea nuclear Kwang-Tzu Yang, Hank pro­polyhedrosis virus by Malcolm fessor of aerospace and me­Fraser, assistant professor of chanical engineering. biological sciences. $21,000 from Bowling Green 
$62,500 from the National Sci­State University for a post­ence Foundation for a doctoral fellowship at Bowling Presidential Young Inves­Green State University, ad­tigator Award for Jeffrey ministered by Andrzej Walicki, Kantor, associate professor of Conley professor of history. chemical engineering. 
$24,000 from the U.S. Depar­$5,000 from the Graham tment of the Navy for research Foundation for research by on fire spread in confined John Stamper, assistant profes­spaced by Kwang-Tzu Yang, sor of architecture, on the 
THE THOMAS J. 

-W§~6~~~5&_ -.. 
GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School 
Presents A Lecture By 
Jonathan Kozol Author of Rachel and Her Children Illiterate America Death at an Early Age 
On "At the Mercy of America: The Homeless and Their Children" 
Noon Thursday, October 27 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 

parked on a remote access road off Interstate 8 in the Mountain Springs Grade area, about 70 miles east of San Diego, Mensik said. 
"They were in the process of descending to get a closer look at the suspect vehicle. Ap­parently, at about 500 feet, they struck a power line that had been strung between two hil­ltops," he said. 
Lt. Col. Gage ofthe Army Na­tional Guard told The Associ­ated Press that the car ob­served by the helicopter apparently was a U.S. border Patrol vehicle. When asked what happened to the car, he said: "Nothing. I believe it turned out to be a Border Pa­trol vehicle. That's the best es­timate." 
Gage declined to give his first 
name. A telephone message ~ left at the Border Patrol was 1 not returned. 
1 
1 
nineteenth century world's fair. 
$1,000 from Purdue Univer­sity for research on tributary loading methods by Victor Bierman, associate professor of civil engineering. 
Awards for facilities and equipment totalled $4,840 from the National Science Founda­tion for research by Kenneth Olson, adjunct professor bio­logical sciences in the South Bend Center for Medical Edu­cation. 
Awards for instructional pro­grams totalled $130,000 includ­ing: 
$100,000 from Houston En­dowment Inc. for the Jesse Jones professorship in manage­ment, administered by Vincent Raymond, associate dean of the College of Business Admin­istration and associate profes­sor of management. 
$30,000 from the U.S. Infor­mation Agency for the Interna­tional Scholars Program, ad­ministered by Anne Hayner, staff professional specialist in the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Awards for service pro­grams totalled $67,185 from private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totalled $194,284 including: 
$119,947 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by John Van Engen, director of the Medieval Institute and associ­ate professor of history, on Christendom in the high Middle Ages. 
$47,492 from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for a summer seminar on Pas­cal's "Pensees": Faith, Rea­son, and the Meaning of Life, by Thomas Morris, associate professor of philosophy. 
$16,845 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Education for a Indian education program fellowship, administered by Joseph Russo, director of financial aid, and Tina Cunningham, financial aid counselor. 
$10,000 from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for the Ad Litteram Conference for Kent Emery, assistant pro­fessor in the program of liberal studies, and Mark Jordan, as­sociate professor in the Medieval Institute. 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 26, 1988
page 8 

On desk graffiti, football, and flowers 
Every Sunday night, the show "60 Minutes" gives Andy Rooney a few minutes to whine and/or show us "have you ever noticed?" insights about things in everyday life. Watching Rooney's bit on TV this past week gave me a novel idea. Since I couldn't think of anything worthwhile to write for a column, I thought I might compile my own list of "have you ever noticed?" gripes and see if I could get it published (if Rooney can do it on national TV, then there's no reason why I can't in a paper of such unparalleled excellence as The Observer). So, I'm finally get­ting a chance to let loose on some of the things around here for which I (and I hope many others) have no particular love. 
Glenn Fogarty 
with no apologies 
For starters, every time I go to find a desk in the library, it always seems that I find one that is covered with a plethora of not-very-polite sayings. These sayings usually feature some four-lettered epithets tacked on to such old standards as "your mother," "your 
sister," "fat N.D. chicks," and a host of others. General complaints are pretty popular, too. Occasionally 
\ there's even a bit of poetry as well, com-
Right to Life group slates Oct. 27 event 
Dear Editor: 
On Oct. 27, the second annual Respect 
for Life Mass, dinner, and lecture are 
being sponsored by the Notre 
Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life group. 
These events present a wonderful op­
portunity for us to gather together to 
celebrate life. My wife and I would 
definitely be in attendance, if it were 
not for the fact that on that date I will 
be participating in a national program 
on substance abuse in Washington, D.C. 
"Human life is precious because it is 
and when God gives life, it is forever." (Pope John Paul II) Saint Mary's Col­lege is profoundly aware of and rooted in its Catholic and Holy Cross tradi­tions. We believe deeply that the holi­nessoflifeisoneofGod'sgreatestgifts. 
Doonesbury 
!3XOEeMe I/)(}, AND I SIR ya;Gtir tuANT mGweANY SPAR& . IT TO YOU, 8UT 
•• {,(}(){JlJ) IT Be . RIGHT? 
\ \ 
plete with ingenious innuendo. Radicals vary it a bit and tack "narrow-minded business jerks" or "male chauvinists" onto the usual flowery four-lettered prose. 
How people actually get all the time to write all of this fine deskfront litera­ture I'll never know. I'm just waiting to hear someone be honest and reply to the question "Goin' to the 'brare to 
study?" with "No, I'm just going there to write on the desks for a while." Al­though I must commend the talents of these literary giants, I have to admit that reading the time-honored, four­lettered formulas is starting to get a bit tedious. Maybe the library could of­fer a course in "Creative Graffiti" so that the individuals who bless our desks with their talent could lend some literary grace or artistic flair to their work. I'd really appreciate it. 
Some of the things that go on at the football games really grate on my nerves as well. There's one awful cheer where students sort of shake their wrists around limply and shriek "Woo, 
Woo, Woo, Woo!" Only a woman or some type of fairy could have made up that monstrosity. Maybe if enough of us just stop going along with it, the morons who like it will get the hint and shut up. 

Armchair Quarterbacks are to be found a dime a dozen in the stands, too. Their favorite complaint a few years ago was "Oh, Beuerlein, you . . . (fil. in the blank)." Last year I heard them playing a game that could be described 
There's one awful cheer where everyone sort of shakes their wrists around limply and shrieks "Woo, Woo, Woo, Woo!" Only a woman or some type of fairy could have made up that monstrosity. 
only as "Musical Quarterbacks." It goes like this: "Put in Tony Rice," "Put in Kent Graham," "Put in Rice," and over and over and over again. The fa­vorite Armchair QB ditty this year is "Use the Option! Run the Option!" I swear I hear those words at least five times a minute. People who probably don't even have the slightest idea of what an option play is are probably mouthing those holy words these days. It's as if Moses could come down off Mt. Sinai saying "I give you ... The Option!", and these people would be 
P.O. Box Q 
As individuals in modern society, each of us has an obligation to reflect upon this serious issue and to act with courage to respect life. As Vatican Il's Constitution on the Church in the Modern World states: "All should be persuaded that human life and the task of transmitting it are not realities bound up with this world alone. Hence they cannot be measured or perceived only in terms of it, but (in terms that) always have a bearing on the eternal destiny of man." 
The efforts of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's group help us to focus the at­tention of our entire community on one of the most important issues of our 

the gift of a God whose love is infinite;--times. Let each of us support these 
events as an aid in our search for ways to affirm our commitment to a deep and lasting respect for life. 
William A. Hickey President, Saint Mary's College 
Oct. 24,1988 

Hiler/Ward debate. tomorrow night 
Dear Editor: 

Now that we have all had a relaxing, much needed break, we can look for­ward to all the things yet to come in November. As we all know, November 1988 promises to be an exciting month as our nation chooses its new leaders. 
Responding to the exciting number of people who registered in student gov­ernment's Voter Registration Cam­paign, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student governments have arranged for a debate between Representative John Hiler (R) and Tom Ward (D). They are the candidates for the 3rd Dis­trict of Indiana. As legal residents of South Bend and the 3rd district, you now have a responsibility to vote for the community leaders. Not only do you have the responsibility to vote, but this 
Garry Trudeau 
OH...YeAH, 58& WHAT  (j(}()O. I  OKAY, GIVfJMe  
YOU MeAN. Wtu., WHAT tl~ lliAT.  YaJI< MCWeYa?.  
IFI /XJNTGIVe YCV A 7HtN /~ Of0/(;0 'I!<NaAJ, TH/?CAT­?He VIC­\ YOU? TIM,NJT YCXJ.I  l'U.... /J4MN/ I /JON758£3M TO BeARM£/?.' I  
""'  

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letttlfS and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................ ..................... Chris Murphy Managing Editor ................... ........... Chris Donnelly News Editor ........................ ............... Regis Coccia News Editor ................................... Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
standing in awe. I just wish they'd spare me the play-by-play commen­tary. 
Having to buy flowers for SYRs ·is another thing. When I first got here, I thought that practice was pretty classy. I don't think so anymore. It's so com­monplace, it's trite, and expensively so. Considering that most girls throw the things out after the fact, I wish there were some alternative. I could think of better ways of spending money than on those silly green bundles, especially when it's three bucks or so a shot for a single rose. Maybe some entrepre­neur could invent "Disposable Paper SYR Flowers" and sell them for a frac­tion of the cost of the real thing. Better yet, how about just a paper picture of flowers in a green bundle. It would fit a lot more compactly in a trash can. If everybody used them, what difference would it make? Until that day, I'd just love to see some guy throw out his date's flowers for her, to save her the trouble. That would be a gallant move. 
I just hope I can come up with a worthwhile topic for next month. 
Glenn Fogarty is a sophomore cur­rently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
vote should also be an informed and educated one. 
In efforts to do this your student gov­ernments have arranged several infor­mation drives and tables in order to educate yourself on the issues, the can­didates, the parties, and the entire cam­paign. This drive at Saint Mary's is Nov.l-3 in Madeleva lobby from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. 
Most of all, we urge you to take the initiative and attend the debate be­tween Hiler and Ward on Thursday, Oct. 27 at 8:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Monogram Room. Your future leaders are visible now and are talking to you. Take advantage of this debate to listen and learn about the issues that will af­fect you from the people who will rep­resent you. 
Julie Parrish Student Body President Lisa M. Hill VP for Student Affairs 

Quote of the Day 
"Fate chooses our relatives, we choose our friends." 
Jacques Delille 1738-1813 

Operations Board 
Business Manager........... . ............. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager .... Molly Killen Advertising Manager... ..... Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager...... . ....... Bernadette Shi~s Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

-~-~---~---------------. 
Accent

Wednesday, October 26, 1988 
page 9 

Professor O'Rourke, teacher and writer 
W
"Just as environmentalists standard--and put our discus­STEPHANIE SNYDER must protect their reserva­sion on the path that he accent writer tions, writers must protect thought it should be on." their language." An example of a typical as­illiam O'Rourke may be O'Rourke's first hand expe­signment in O'Rourke's class known to most of the rience as a writer has been was when he had each of his Notre Dame community extemely beneficial to his students take a newspaper solely as a professor who teaching career. "My career article--a real story about teaches a course entitled Fic­as a writer allows me to start real events--and write a short tion Writing--a descriptive at a level of understanding story centered around it. "He writing course comprised with my students that other especially likes fiction written mostly of junior and senior professors take more time to realistically, that is, incorpo­English majors. What most achieve." He adds that once rating everyday, normal students do not know is the they begin turning in papers people and events," Searle fact that O'Rourke is also an the understanding deepens. explained.extremely talented and This professor sees his stu­O'Rourke has written three notable American writer. dents as equals and realizes novels, "The Meekness of 
He has always taken his they have strong views of Isaac," "Idle Hands," and teaching career as seriously their own. Mike Searle, a "Criminal Tendencies," all as his writing career. He is senior English major who had three of which were awarded quick to point out, however, taken O'Rourke's Fiction with praise from critics the difference between the Writing class last year, com­across the nation. His nonfic­two careers. "When you mented, "He (O'Rourke) tion book, and incidentally his teach," O'Rourke explains, knows when to lecture and first book, "The Harrisburg 7 "you have to step forward when to let the students talk. and the New Catholic Left," and speak for yourself. On Usually he would step back was chosen by The New York the other hand, with a book, and let the class discuss a Times Review as one of the you let the writing speak for subject or critique a paper most notable books of the you." He also believes all together. He would, however, year. He also edited ''On the writing should be given some step back in the discussion as Job; Fiction About Work by bia. O'Rourke taught at both said, 'If you can't do (write),special regard in that soon as he realized that we Contemporary Writers," a Rutgers University and teach,' but my generation did "writers are like environmen­had lost our direction. He collection of short fiction con­Mount Holyoke College as an both," O'Rourke laughed. He talists and books are like would then give his opinions-­taining works by such assistant English teacher is now currently working on reservations," he explains. which we accepted as the prominent writers as Bernard before coming to the Univer­three books: "Edmund Wil­
Malamud and John Updike. sity of Notre Dame in 1981. son's Elbow," a novel about 
Professor O'Rourke was the author's generation of born in Chicago. In 1968 he Starting when he was only writers, "The Terminal received his B.A. in English 26, this professorAvriter pub­Year," a novel dealing with at the University of Missouri lished a new book about collegiate life, and "Notts," a in Kansas City and in 1970 he every five years. "The gener­novel centered around the earned his M.F.A at Colum-ation before mine always coal-mining strike in 1984. 
Japan: different, exciting 
Hello from Tokyo, Japan. I price, one can dance and am here as a participant in drink until late at night. I Notre Dame's Year in Japan have also visited a temple in program. While I am here, I Asakusa, located within a few will be attending Sophia Uni­hundred meters of a row of versity, and residing in its strip joints. dormitory. My purpose in writing this column is to in­Besides giving me a sense form our student body of the of the city, visitng these dif­opportunities to travel abroad ferent places helps me to un­for a year, or a semester, and derstand the Japanese as a to spread interest and in­people. crease participation in the The Japanese are a very programs. interesting and complex race. totally dependent upon my 
most recent interaction with one of them.
Wedding couple Matt Cleary 
dress, Muffy took inventory of L tt f th 0 · 
Of course, I am newly ar­
JOHN BRENNAN Biff. His Gucci watch and e ers rom e nent rived in this country, of which Vuarnet sunglasses led Muffy Tokyo is only one city.
accent writer 

to believe that Biff had as Throughout the year, my ex­
much of Daddy's money as I arrived in Tokyo two They are very quiet and for­periences will grow, and myThey met during Freshman she did. He seemed a weeks ago, and in that time I mal, close to the point of impressions will become Orientaton Week. Even the gentleman in every way--his have seen much of the city rudeness, but when ap­more detailed and accurate. chocalate ice cream of the stature, build, and poise. and learned much from the proached, they become As of now, I am looking for­Ice Cream Social couldn't Muffy was not going to take people. Most of my time is extremely friendly and help­ward to the opportunity of distract Biff's attention from her eyes off Biff anytime spent exploring the city which ful. At times they seem to sharing my thoughts and ex­Muffy's pale, freckled, Irish " h · . is one of the largest in the feel superior to other races, periences with the rest of 
skin. She wore a yellow T e relationship world. I have been to Ueno, a but they are also very Notre Dame's student body. sundress. She obviously was lasted all 4 years ... zoo and park where couples curious, and find it exciting to Until next time, goodbye from of the right upbringing--a 'SOon. go at night and enjoy the talk to and learn from foreig­the other side of the world, Bloomfield Hills native, From then on Muffy and peace and quiet. Roppongi is ners. It often seems that my where we're still close enough plenty of Daddy's money. In Biff were like flies on a district of bars, where for a impression of the Japanese is to hate Miami 



Biff's mind, she studied the flypaper. The relationship English classics or philoso­lasted all four years at Notre Calvin and Hobbes phy. Without a doubt this Dame. Their classmates be­
LOOK. AT 11\15 ONE. HE's
beauty was highly principled, came increasingly ill with 
CARR~ING A CRUMB ltl!I-T"S a girl with lofty morals. each passing academic se­BIGGER 11\r-.N HI: 1'5, ~0 Biff's dream state was shat­mester. The culmination of f.lt:S ~VNN!N6. tered when the top scoop of these four years was the 
\

Muffy's five-scoop cone rolled recent October engagement on to her dress. Without ring. 111~ hesitation Biff grabbed 15 Daddy's blowing big bucks. '' -~ napkins and sprinted to the Come share the joy's of mar­aid of the fair Muffy. She riage with Muffy and BitT happily accepted his help. during Wedding Week, Wed­
As Biff gently stroked the nesday, Oct. 26 thru Sunday, ice cream from Muffy's Oct. 30. 
Bill Watterson 
~~' 
< .,, 
-,_ 
.;~~-A> 



Sports Wednesday 
page 10 Wednesday, October 26, 1988 
Sports Calendar NFL Standings AP Football Poll Sports Lists 
Wednesday NATIONAL CONFERENCE The Top Twenty college football teams in The East Associated Press poll, with first-place votes inSMC soccer vs. IUSB, 4:30 p.m. w L T Pet. PF PA parentheses, this season's records and total 
N.Y. Giants 5 3 0 .625 177 168 points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre 

EQUINE ELECTIONS 
Washington 5 3 0 .625 199 171 Dame opponents are italicized. Thursday Philadelphia 4 4 0 .500 179 160 Phoenix 4 4 0 .500 198 186 1. UCLA (35) 7-0-0 1,171
Women's I nnis at ITCA All-American 

Dallas 2 6 0 .250 138 166 2. Notre Dame (19) 7-0-0 1,144 Tournamer 3. Southern Cal (5) 6-Q-0 1,086 Central 4. Miami 5-1-0 1,024 Chicago 7 1 0 .875 157 83 5. Nebraska 7-1-0 893 Minnesota 5 3 0 .625 184 138 6. Flordia State 7-1-0 889
Friday Detroit 2 6 0 .250 102 153 7. West Virginia (1) 7-0-0 885 6-1-0
Hockey vs. ROCHESTER INST. OF Green Bay 2 6 0 .250 160 159 8. Oklahoma 762 Tampa Bay 2 6 0 .250 151 216 9. Auburn 6-1-0 706
TECH., 7:30 p.m. 

10. Wyoming 8-0-0 653 Volleyball vs NEBRASKA, 7:30 p.m. 11. Arkansas 7-0-0 586 
Lacrosse vs. JOHNS HOPKINS, 7 p.m. 7 West 1 180 137 12. Oklahoma State 5-1-0 498
New Orleans 0 .875 

13. LSU 4-2-0 342
Men's tennis hosts TOM FALLON IN-L.A. Rams 6 2 0 .750 230 140 
14. Michigan 4-2-1 338
San Francisco 5 3 0 .625 175 151
VITATIONAL 

15. Clemson 5-2-0 287Allanta 1 7 0 .125 142 220
Women's tennis at ITCA All-American 16. Syracuse 6-1-0 269 Tournament 
17. South Carolina 6-1-0 251 
18. Georgia 5-2-0 172
Women's soccer at Dayton Tournament AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
19. Alabama 5-1-0 158 East 
20. Oregon 6-1-0 151 D. C. Dukew L T Pet. PF PA Others receiving votes: North Carolina StateBuffalo 7 1 0 .875 171 139
Saturday 139, Indiana 69, Brigham Young 56, Texas-EI Grand Old Party
N.Y. Jets 4 3 1 .563 182 164 Paso 18, Washington 16, Southern Mississippi t3,Miami 4 4 0 .500 159 168

Football at Navy, 11 a.m. Colorado 9, Texas A&M 6, Pitt 5, Army 2, The Democrat
Indianapolis 3 5 0 .375 150 156

Volleyball vs. LSU, 7:30 p.m. Houston 1 , Iowa 1 . 
New England 3 5 0 .375 125 192 

Hockey vs. ROCHESTER INTST. OF George All The Way
NBA Preseason

TECH., 7:30 p.m. central 
Voo Doo Economics
Men's soccer at Florida International Cincinnati 7 1 0 .875 236 155 
Monday's Result Cleveland 5 3 0 .625 130 116

Classic L.A. Lakers 105, New Jersey 93 Ron and Nanci* 
Houston 5 3 0 .625 174 196 
Tuesday's Results Pittsburgh 2 6 0 .250 169 213
Men's and women's cross country at 

New York 125, L.A. Lakers 119 *Failed to finish race in only start.
MCC Championships 

Indiana 118, Dallas 107 Women's soccer at Dayton Tourney West Philadelphia 133, Phoenix 126 
Men's tennis hosts TOM FALLON IN-Denver 4 4 0 .500 167 140 Atlanta 108, Houston 98 
Source: Thouroughbred Racing Communications The Observer/Geoff Sauer & Marga Bruns 
Seattle 4 4 0 .500 141 160 Sacramento 103, San Antonio 97
VITATIONAL 
L.A. Raiders 3 5 0 .375 174 206 Utah at Golden State, late
Women's tennis at ITCA All-American 

San Diego 2 6 0 .250 102 169 Wednesday's Games Tournament Kansas City 1 6 1 .188 102 132 Milwaukee at Bosion Irish Hockey Cleveland vs. Dayton at Dayton, Ohio 
Tuesday's Game Penalties 
Seattle at L.A. Clippers 

Alaska-Anchoraga 8, Notre Dame 3 ND-Haikola (roughing) 4:06; AA-Conn (checking
Sunday's Games Thursday's Games 

Alaska-Anchorage 1 5 2 8 from behind) 6:28; ND-Herber (cross checking) 
Sunday Atlanta at Philadelphia Milwaukee vs. Boston at Portland, Maine 
Notre Dame 3 6:56; AA-Semeniuk (interlerence) 6:56; AA-BattersChicago at New England Indiana vs. Chicago at Cincinnati
Men's soccer at Florida International (cross checking) 11 :24; ND-Leherr (holding)
Cincinnati at Cleveland Houston vs. Ph~adelphia at Nashville, Tenn. 
12:40; NO-Patrick (high sticking) 16:03.

Classic Green Bay at Buffalo Sacrament.o vs. San Antonio at Corpus Cristi, FIRST PERIOD Women's tennis at ITCA All-American Los Angeles Rams at New Orleans Texas Scoring 
THIRD PERIOD Tournament Scoring
Miami at Tampa Bay Atlanta at Denver ND -Hanzel 2 (D. Bankoske) 11:20. 
Phoenix at Dallas L.A. Lakers vs. Utah at Provo, Utah AA -Coulson (Catani, Peluso) 13:49. 
AA -Conn (Coulson, Catani) 0:32.
Pittsburgh at New York Jets AA -Lofroth (Cody, Batters) 6:36.

Monday New York Giants at Detroit Penalties NO -Kuehl 2 (Caddo, Haikola) 15:25.
San Diego at Seattle AA-Sameniuk (roughing) 3:54; ND-Leherr 
Penalties

No sports scheduled Minnesota at San Francisco Scoreboard (interference) 8:01; AA-Branicki (elbowing) 10:25; NO-Herber (interference) 2:04; AA-Catani (cross
Kansas City at Los Angeles Raiders AA-Donald (hooking) 12:54; ND-Guay (holding) checking) 5:33; AA-Peluso (hooking) 7:53; 
Washington at Houston Results for Oct. 12-25 13:09; AA-Spooner (cross checking) 15:00.
Tuesday AA-Peluso (slashing) 15:25; AA-Cody (slashing) 
Monday's Games 15:57; ND-Kuehl (hooking) 17:09; ND-Herber

No sports scheduled Denver at Indianapolis Football (7-Q) 
SECOND PERIOD (high sticking) 18:48. Notre Dame 31, Miami 30 Scoring 
Notre Dame 41, Air Force 13 AA -Catani (Coulson) 1:26. Shots on goal
lnterhall Football NHL Standings 
AA -Catani (Coulson, Peluso) 5:49. Alaska-Anchorage 16 14 13 -43 Baseball 
AA -Catani (unassisted) 11 :03. Notre Dame 12 9 9 -30 MEN'S INTERHALL WALES CONFERENCE NO -Herber 2 (Caddo) 11 :24.
Notre Dame 11, Miami 2

Final Regular Season AA -Bogoyevac (Noble, Larson) 1 1 :50. Goaltenders: Alaska-Anchorage -Mayhall. Notre 
Adams Division Notre Dame 9, Miami 8 

AA -Lofroth (Cody, Batters) 19:42. Dame -Madson (t-3). A -725. 
Parseghlan w L T GF GA Pta. w L T Pet. PF PA Boston 6 2 1 35 23 13 
Hockey (1-3) 

Irish Baseball
3 1 1 .700 48 9 Buffalo 5 5 0 41 41 10
Dillon Western Michigan 8, Notre Dame 2 Off Campus 3 2 0 .600 37 24 Montreal 4 5 1 34 36 9 
St. Cloud State 4, Notre Dame 3

18 Quebec 4 6 0 38 48 8
Flanner 2 1 2 .600 20 Notre Dame 3, St. Cloud State 2 Thursday, Oct. 13 Friday, Oct. 14 
Morrissey 2 2 1 .500 16 47 Hartford 3 4 0 28 33 6 
Keenan 2 3 0 .400 32 42 Alaska-Anchorage 8, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 11, Miami 2 Notre Dame 9, Miami 8 Grace 4 0 .200 30 41 
Patrick Division 

Pittsburgh 6 2 0 49 34 12 Volleyball (1 HI) Miami ab r h bl Notre Dame ab r h bl Miami ab r h bl Notre Dame ab r h bl 
Leahy N.Y. Rangers 5 2 1 29 19 11 
Notre Dame over Pacific Borgese cf 3 0 1 o Pesavnto ss 4 1 1 0 DiMare If 4 1 2 0 Pesavnto ss 5 1 2 1 Alumni 3 1 0 .750 30 7 Philadelphia 5 3 0 36 30 10 
8-15, 15-7, 16-14, 5-15, 15-12 Santngelo ss 3 0 2 0 Counsell If 4 2 1 0 Santngelo ss 3 0 t 1 Counsell If 3 2 0 0 
Stanford 3 1 0 .750 40 12 N.Y. Islanders 4 3 1 28 27 9 San Jose State over Notre Dame Anderson 3b 3 0 0 0 Peltier cf 4 2 2 1 Borgese cf 4 1 Peltier cf 4 3 0 Holy Cross 2 2 1 .500 22 42 New Jersey 3 5 1 32 40 7 
Cavanaugh 1 2 1 .375 13 24 Washington 2 6 0 30 36 4 
10-15, 9-15, 15-12, 15-4, 15-10 Noriegarf 4 0 0 0 Lunde 5 2 2 2 Noriega rf 3 1 1 1Lundc 4 Ot Fabregas 1b 3 0 1 0 Sass rf 5 0 3 1 Tosar dh-2b 3 2 2 OSassrf 3113
Minnesota over Notre Dame
Zahm 0 3 1 .125 7 27 

Hinde If 2 1 0 0 Rotkis dh 1 0 0 0 Anderson 3b 4 1 1 0 Rotkisdh 4 1 2 2
15-5, 15-12, 15-4

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Sharts dh 4 0 1 0 Coss 3b 4 1 t 1 Hernandz 1 b 4 1 2 3Coss3b 3100Rockne 
Iowa over Notre Dame Hirsch c 2 0 1 t Binkiewcz 1b 4 0 2 0 Walker c 3 0 0 0 Binkiewcz 1b 4 0 2 0Fisher 2 0 2 .750 27 6 Smythe Dvlslon 15-4, 15-7,7-15, 15-11 Trujillo 2b 4 0 0 o Moshier 2b 4 2 3 2 Trujillo 2b 4 1 2 2 Moshier 2b 3 0 0 0Pangborn 2 1 1 .625 29 30 w L T GF GA Pis Notre Dame over Ohio State DiMare cf 1 1 1 0 Mee ph 0 0 0 0 Rodrigues If 0 0 0 0 Mee pr 0 1 0 0Sarin 2 1 1 .625 32 15 
Calgary 5 2 2 42 31 12 15-5, 16-14, 15-7 Duncanph 0 0 0 1 Krallph 1 0 0 0 Totals 32 8 12 8 Totals 33 9 10 7Carroll 3 0 .250 20 55 Los Angeles 5 3 0 45 39 10 Tosar ph 0 0 0 0 Baker ph 0 0 0 0St. Ed's 3 0 .250 25 27 Edmonton 3 3 2 32 35 8 Hernandz 1b 0 0 0 0 Allen pr 0 1 0 0
Men's Soccer (11-3-2)

Vancouver 3 4 2 30 25 8 Robinson If 0 o o o Martinez ph 1 0 1 1
Notre Dame 6, DePaul 1

Winnipeg 2 3 2 19 30 6 Cataldo 1b 1 0 0 0Sunday's Playoff Games 
College of Charleston 2, Notre Dame 1 
Totals 29 2 7 2 Totals 38 1114 8Pangborn vs. Stanford, 1 p.m. 
Norris Division Rutgers 2, Notre Dame 0
Dillon vs. Off Campus 2:15p.m. 
Toronto 7 3 1 45 32 15 

Miami 010 000 001 -2 Miami 000 402 01 1 -8Alumni, Fisher have byes St. Louis 3 3 1 28 31 7 
Women's Soccer Notre Dame 001 020 62x -11 Notre Dame 001 004 013 -9 Detroit 2 3 3 29 37 7 
Notre Dame 1, Saint Mary's 1Chicago 2 7 1 42 52 5 Notre Dame 3, Bowling Green 0 E--Trujillo, Hirsch, Santangelo. DP--Notre Dame E -Anderson, Piotrowicz. DP -Notre Dame 1. LOBWOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Minnesota 6 1 24 37

1 3 2. LOB--Notre Dame 9, Miami 11. 2B--Hirsch, -Notre Dame 7, Miami 4. 2B -PeHier, Borgese, Tosar, 
w L T Pet. PF PA Lewis 2, Saint Mary's 1 
DiMare, Lund. SB--Hinde, Borgese, Santangelo. S­Hernandez, Trujillo 2. 3B -Sass. HR -Rotkis. S ­
Farley 6 0 01.000 64 6 Saint Mary's 1 , Indiana 0 
·Santangelo, Pesavento, Mee, Counsell. SF-­Moshier, DiMare, Santangelo, Borgese, Walker. SFLewis 4 1 0 .800 55 38 Tuesday's Results Duncan, Hirsch. -Santangelo, Sass. •Pasquerilla West 4 1 0 .800 50 22 Montreal 1, Boston 1 
Cross country

Breen-Phillips 3 2 0 .600 39 31 Chicago 7, Quebec 4 Men's Miami lp hrerbbao Miami lp hrerbbsoSiegfried 3 2 0 .600 41 40 Pittsburgh 6, Calgary 1 
Southern Cal 21, Notre Dame 34 Grahe 3 2 1 1 1 3 Fernandez 5.2 6 5 1 1 7
Lyons 2 2 0 .500 21 25 Buffalo 7. New Jersey 4 Tucker, L 3 5 2 2 0 4 Knowles, L 2.2 4 4 4 2 4
Women's Martinelli 1.1 6 8 2 2 2 West 0 0 0 0 1 0
Walsh 2 3 0 .400 46 49 Toronto 4, New York Islanders 3 
Pasquerilla East 2 4 0 .333 42 49 Washington at Vancouver, late Southern Cal 19, Notre Dame 36 
West 0.2 1 0 0 0 2 Trujillo 0 0 0 0 2 0
Howard 3 0 .250 34 42 Edmonton at Los Angeles, late Notre Dame Notre DameKnott 1 4 0 .200 34 57 
Tennis 

Madsen, W 7 6 3 5 Piotrowicz 3.2 5 4 4 0Badin 0 6 0 .000 6 73 Wednesday's Games 
Women's Coffey 2 1 2 Conway 1.1 2 2 2 1Hartford at Buffalo
• 
Notre Dame first at MCC Championships WP -Martinelli. Balk -Martinelli. HBP -Borgese, Coffey, W 4 5 2 2 oWednesday's Games Montreal at Detroit 
Saint Mary's first at NAIA District Champion­Santangelo, Anderson, Hinde (all by Madsen). U WP -West. HBP -Noriega (by Piotrowicz). U -
Pasquerilla Wesl vs. Lyons, 7 p.m. Philadelphia at New York Rangers 
-Yonto, Doane, Russan, Nordquist. T -3:04. A -1,403. Doane, Yonto, Nordquist, Duffey. T -3:15. A -2,842. 
Lewis vs. Breen-Phillips, 8 p.m. Toronto at Minnesota ships 

Wednesday, October 26, 1988 The Observer page 11 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Michael Stonebreaker, who leads Notre Dame with 68 tackles, has been named one of 12 candidates for the 1988 Butkus Award, given an­nually to the top•college linebacker in the nation. The field will be cut to five on Nov. 9 and the winner will be announced Nov. 29. -The Obsever 
Basketball season tickets will be distributed next week to only those students who applied earlier for tickets. On Friday, Nov. 4, those students who did not apply but still want tickets can wait in line for the 2,000 remaining season tick­ets. -The Observer 
Digger Phelps will speak on "How I See the NO Basketball Season," today at 8 p.m. in the first­floor lounge of Saint Edward's Hall. The speech is part of the Saint Edward's Hall Forum series. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club will participate in an all-Western show Oct. 29 and an all-English show Oct. 30. Any members interested in showing must call Kerry at x1277 by Wednesday. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club has moved its weekly meetings to room 204 of O'Shaughnessy due to the cold weather. A meeting will be held tonight at 6:30 for all members. The team will travel to the Uni­versity of Toledo this weekend. -The Observer 
. 

The Saint Mary's soccer game today against IUSB, originally scheduled for 5:30p.m at Coveleski Stadium, now will be played at Saint Mary's at 4:30 
p.m. -The Observer 

Reggie Ho, the kicker for the Notre Dame football team, was selected as the winner of the Toyota Leadership Award for Notre Dame's game against Miami. Ho is a pre-med major with a 3.8 grade point average. Defensive end Bill Hawkins won the award for Miami. -The Observer 
The SMC 4-on-4 volleyball co-ed intramural tournament begins Sunday. Schedules are available at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827 
Matt "Schmear· Gallagher lor VP 
TEXTBOOKS ·Bought & Sold-Books lor ALL claaaea alii! avallablel UN· BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books, 808 Howard St., just oil ol NO Ave. 233-2342. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233·7009. 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
Typing. Call Pat at 271-8116. Located 2 mi. north ol Notre Dame. 
BUSH-QUAYLE '88 Signs are available! 320 Zahm or call Tom 1121 
PEACE CORPS FILM 'Lei it Begin Here' 7·0Qpm Wed.· Center lor Social Concerns· FREE 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST· SAPPHIRE HEART AND CHAIN LAST FRIDAY AT SOUTH DINING HALL. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD SEE CLAUDINE AT SOUTH DINING HALL 
Lost·pair ol red glasses in burg. case wt blue dol pattern on Mon 1ot between cushing 2nd II. and Farley hall if you picked them up, please call Molly x3560 
Lost: black Jean jacket. 100 rm. 217 O'Shag, It's cold so please return. Chris x2725 
PLEASE HELP ME 1111111 
I lost a silver watch probably be hind St. Edwards Hall. II you found rt. please call Jim at xl561. 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE!!!! 
II I'm not In, please leave a message Thank you. 
LOST· A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN LEATHER CASE AT sMC HOLY CROSS SYR. IF YOU STOLE IT ...JUST GIVE ME THE FILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580 
FOUND: WATCH AT NO BUS STOP. CALL 2485. 
FOUND: WATCH AT NO BUS STOP. CALL 2485. 
LUST 

RED, BLUE AND GREY SKI COAT 
FROM SENIOR BAR COAT ROOM $20 
REWARD WITH NO QUESTIONS 
ASKED PLEASE CALL STEVE X4358 
.................................................... 
LOST:necklace with blue onyx, heart 
shaped pendant.REWARD. See 
Claudine In South Dining Hall. 
Found: Kodak camera on the field alter the Pitt game. Call Dave at # 4020. 
HELP!! I LOST MY KEYS BEFORE BREAK AND MY ROOMMATE WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T FIND THEM SOON IF YOU HAVE FOUND A SET OF KEYS WITH 139 ON THE DORM KEYS. PLEASE CALL ME AT # 4205·-­THANKS 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291·7153. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N Breeklaot juat 20 mlna. from ND. Ideal lor al NO actlvltleo. ReaeNe now. 616-471·5711. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. Summer, yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Asla. All llelda. $900-2000 mo. Sight....,.. lng.Free Into. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST FOR VITO'S llARBER SHOP. CALL 233-4767. 
I STILL want to buy a MIAMI T·SHIRT If you have any left, please calli Laure # 
2963 

HELP!! I Ride Needed This Friday to Milw or Chicago or Madison$$$$ Rob x1532 
FOR SALE 
APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in· eluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283· 3481. 
aov.mm.nt HorMa fnlm .1.00. "U Repair". Also tax delinquent property. Call 805-644·9533, Ext. 1029 lor Into. 
250$ Roundtrip Airfare South bnd to 
Portland Call Rag # 1958 
TICKETS 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-8306 

NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE 
GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL 
CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE 
CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223·2440 
EXT. 7772. 

I NEED RICE TIXIII Lei's be serious--you don't want to see us play Rice, but my family does. I need 8 tickets lor the game. II you can help, please call me at 283-1 069 ask lor The Beeler. 
PLEASE HELPI-4 RICE GA'S NEEDED 
AND ONEGA OR STUDENT FOR PENN 
STATE CALL SUSAN-284-4373. 
Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos­
sible. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC­
4395. 

Need 2 Penn State Tix(preter stu­
dent)Will pay$$! Call Rich at 3317. 
2 TIX INCLUDED EACH HOME GAME 
WITH 

WEEKEND RENTAL OF 1 BEDROOM 
APT. 

3 BLKS. FROM N.D. $350 
CALL 219 272-2720 
I need 2 slud-GA lixs lor Penn St. call 
4431. 

I need 4 Rice Stud Tix: John x4364 
WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 will pay CA$h ... call Frank or Rob-3137 
I NEED RICE TICKETS BADLVIII Okay, everybody needs tickets here and there, but my parents are coming so I need 2 GA's. Please call Kerslin at 283­4220. 
You betcha I need tlcketall 
Please call the Beeler to sell him 8 GA's 
lor the Rice game. And when you call, 
tell Steve you think he's cute. Call 1069 
to sell llckels. 

I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY 
PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. 
HELP! NEW YORK FRIEND WANTS TO SEE NO GAME BEFORE RETURNING TO BIG APLE. CALL 3756 IF YOU HAVE 2 PENN GA'S 
I have 2 Rice GA's, willing to trade them plus $$$ lor 2 Penn ST GA's. Call Stacy at x3771 
Anyone needs NAVY GA's? I've gal three. Call Coop at 1791. 
I have FOUR NAVY TIX lor sale. First good offer takes them. Ask lor John at x3459. Whal a road lripllllll 
I need 1 GA lor the Rice Game. If you can help me oul, call x1259 and ask lor Evelyn. 
NEEof.o~.2~4.i:ii~~·i3·.A.:~··c:~ii·s~~--~fi4:· 
5063. 
I NEED 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT T!X FOR PENN ST. CALL JULIE AT 284· 5440 
HELP! I NEED 2-4 GA'S FOR RICE CALL JULIE AT 284·5342 THANKS 
F5RICE TICKETS I need two Student or GA tickets Call 283-3666, and leave message if no answer. 
HEY/ 
NEED THREE TICKETS TO PENN 
STATE 
CALL CHRIS AT 1644 
NEED 2 (OR 4) RICE GA'S CALL WENDY X1511 $$$ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE CALL SHEILA--271-9365 
HELP!! I NEED I PENN STATE TICKET. $$$ # 2697 
I need 2 or 3 RICE GAs, 2 PENN ST GAs and 2 PENN ST stud ti Call 1511 
WANTED· 4 Tickets lor Penn Stale call Erin x4281 
NEED PENN GA'S & I RICE STUD X· 3100 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S PLEASE!!! WILL PAY$$ 239-7323 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S 1 Preferably together. Call Sharon at 288-2314. 
3 RICE ST. TIX 4 SALE (x3201 lv. bob & mess.) 
Need Penn St. G.A.s--uncle's company will pay lop dollar lor llx. Call Mike 3540. 
I NEED 1 OR 2 PENN ST TIX call Deborah 3706 
I need 2 Penn St. Ga's and 1 Stud. Call Dan X1428 
································································ 
NEED 2 RICE GA·CALL STEVE 3375 
I NEED PENN STATE TIXII PLEASE CALL X2984 IF YOU HAVE ANY TO SELL 
HELP!! Need 2 Rice Tix Parents coming lo D lor I st time! Please! Bob x1794 ENDAD 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS! NOONE WILL PAY MOREl CALL 283-4772 
Need VAN HALEN TIX? Well, I've got 2 lor you. Just call 4107 with best offer. 
PERSONALS 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213·741­1338. 
HELPII need a ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. 15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141 
I NEE ED 2 PENN ST. GA'a NOWII WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT x4141. 

THE TIME IS DRAWING NEARER 
The axe Is sharpened 

(or perhaps the revolver 
Ia cocked 
or the noose 
knotted... ) 

GET READY FOR MY MURDER 
IN DISGUISE ... 
WEEKEND WHEELS 

It's a groovy kind ol bus 
WEEKEND WHEELS 
For the totally hlp 
WEEKEND WHEELS Everybody's doing It 

NO HOCKEY VS. R.I.T. FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY NIGHT, 7:30. 

WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYUST FOR VITO'S IIAMEII SHOP. CALL 233-4787. 
No shaving Basins in Taipei No Circus Lunch in Taiwan No Bill Webb Day in the R.O.C. Help! Reply to: Jim Carroll 
T.I.Y.A.C. Room 902 30 Shin Hai Road, Sec. 3 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 50 FT. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS GROUPS OF 8$435 PP 7 DAYS 1-8()().999-7245 ANYTIME ARRANGE SMALL GROUP & CRUISE FREE 
BASS PLAYER FOR ROCK N ROLL BAND NEEDED call Jim 288-6207 Scott 283·3249 
GAME THEORY 
GAME THEORY 
GAME THEORY 
GAME THEORY 

WI DAMN HAMMER Wed Oct. 26 at THEO's 9pm FREE FREE FREE wtiD SMCID 
LIVE IN JAPAN 

Individuals with a degree and experi­ence In: electronics, engineering, TESOL, linguistics, pharmacy, finance, management, real estate, ad­vertising, publlahlng, elementary edu· cation and the travel Industry Inter· eated In taachlng English lor one yaar In Japan to employees ol major cor· poratlon.,govemment mlnlatrtea should send resume and photo: 
International Education SeNicea Shin Talao Bldg., 10·7, Dogenaaka 2-chome Shlbuya-ku, Tokyo 150, Japen lnteNiews will be held In various U.S. cities thla tall. 
CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 

Thursday Night al Senior Bar t1 pm Come see Catholics in Bad Standing 
SOPHOMORES 
SOPHOMORES 

THIS THURS, SOPH NIGHT 
AT BARNABY'S 

$4 ALL YOU CAN EAT & 
FREE TRANSPORTATION OON'T MISS ITIII 
UB40 
U B 4 0 

U B 4 0 WVFI IS TAKING A BUS TO CHICAGO FOR THE SHOW ON NOV 4. $25 FOR BUS & Tl RESERVE SPACE BY BRINING MONEY TO STATION ON 2ND FL LAFORTUNE BIT 3 & 5PM UN· TIL FRIDAY 100.1. SPACE IS LIMITED! 
YOUR VOTE COUNTS!! Congressional Debate John Hiler v. Tom Ward Thursday 1(}27 8:30 p.m. ACC Monogram Room Tickets Available--Not Required NO and SMC Student Government ALL INVITED 
Need Tickets to Rica Game so I can show my brother how bad his team really is. Please Help! Sell me your STUDENT TICKET. Michael 1089 
ALUMNI SR. CLUB THURSDAY NIGHT CUP NIGHT CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING SPORTS RAFFLE DRAWING BE THEREIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
FATAL ATTRACTION FATAL ATTRAC· TION Tues, Wed, Thurs 9 & 11 SMC $1 Carroll Aud FATAL ATTRACTION 
FATAL ATTRACTION AT SMC TUES WED THURS. ONLY $1. 9 & 11 CAR­ROLL AUD 
BACK IN MY DAY ON A TRIP TO KEN· TUCKY, A NEW LANGUAGE WAS FORMED HEEBEGEEBE·A CHILL THAT MOVES 
"UP YOUR BEING" OF UNKNOWN 
ORIGIN CHUD-SLIMY SEBACEOUS MATTER FOUND ANYWHERE FROM DISHES TO 
TOENAILS NOT-A GENERAL EXPRESSION OF DISAGREEMENT, OFTEN INSULTING SATAN·THAT GUY WHO WALKS WITH YOUNG PEOPLE, GREAT SCAPEGOAT 
WHEN YOU SCREW UP THANKS TO ALL FOR A GREAT BREAK. ·C.J. 
To the CC Exec Committee Hera's to musical aluta,turkey pot pie & bluesberry achnappal 
Thanx & much love, the power-hungry enlightened one 
VAN HALEN ticket lor sale x2521 
THANKS RON! Jan 
The Mimeslayers need a vocalist. must eat glass for desired effect. Must make John Lydon seem !Ike a Las Vegas act. Violent psychedella, etc. call1121 
BUSH-QUAYLE '88 Signs are available! 320 Zahm or call Tom 1121 
BUSH-QUAYLE '88 There will be a short meeting on October 26 at 7:00 P.M. in 103 O'Shag. 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Head Coach Digger Phelps will speak on "How I See the Noire Dame Basketball Season" tonight at 8:00 in lhe St. Ed· ward's hall first·floor lounge. 
CLUB 23 The beat atullad plzZII In town. Groups welcome. 234·3541. 
THERE WILL BE NO ITALIAN CLUB MOVIE TONIGHT 
HELP!!! need ride lo MADISON lor HAL· LOWEEN (Oct 28) Pat 1746 
KAREN K Hope you and Mike had a great weekend! Glad I could help. Pat PS don't worry, things can only get better. 
Leanne Ebner 1st saw you last sem at SOH & thought you were cute. Now I'm lucky enough to see you 3 days a week in class. Would love lo lake you out. If 
interested reply here. "Psyched oul" PS Hope test today went well 
To the best roomale on campus: 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KELLY!! Love always, Laurie 
Ride needed to Illinois State this weekend (1 (}28,29). Call Laurie at X2611. Will share expenses. 
MODEL UNITED NATIONS wtll be having a BRIEF meeting at 7:30 p.m. Thuraday In 122 Hayea-Haaly to dla­cuaa our conceaalon stand and when to have our next simulation. Bring e friend !II 
TOASTMASTERS TOASTMASTERS MEETING TONITE IS CANCELLED NEXT MEETING--NEXT WEDNESDAY OFFICERS--CALL SEAN NOW! !Ill 

HEY CRAIG· WHAT KIND OF PERSON LISTENS TO THE MIGHTY LEMONDROPS? YOU DO? 
WELL, HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANYWAY! 
FROM-ONE OF THE "GUYS" 

To Pat "Gee, I wish 
I were a Brahl" O'Leary, 
HAPPY 21atttttlt 
From Kathy, "No Pat 

we're not related" 
and Vanessa "We are related 
but I've learned to daal 
with It" Brehl. 
CHICAGO BUS TRIP··'Windy City Shuttle" sponsored by the Student Activ· !ties Office, will run this Saturday, Oct. 
29. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 9:45am and return at 10 pm. Tickets are available for $10 at the lnlormatio Desk 1st Floor LaFortune. Next shuttle will run Saturday, Nov. 12. 
NAVY WE'RE ALL OVER ITIII 
Susan Haling Ia 21 todayll Contribute to her drunkenness tonightl 
HELPI Alumn apenl all day lookln lor Miami ticket and did not have time to buy a T-ahir!. Really WANTS NEEDS T-ahlrt with large football ticket on front and CBS aporia on back. II you have one, pleeea call 118rgarwt at 233­1111. 
HELPI Alumn spent all day lookln lor 
Miami ticket and did not have time to 
buy a T-ahir!. Really WANTS NEEDS 
T-ahlrt with large football ticket on 
front and CBS oporta on back. II you 
have one, please call Margaret at 233· 
8181. 
"It's 7 inches long and I can't get It outl" 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATE! KATE IS 20 TODAYII CALL KATE AT 3821 TO WISH HER A HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! 
To 'The girl with the dog": You are the 
most beaulllul lady ever to walk this 
campus. (Monk is prelfy cute, loo.) ­
Dog's best friend 
FALL BREAK 88 IN S.B. I. We should have gone to Florida! 2. Help! 3. I'm sleeping In my OWN bed tonight! 4. Whore's the ice tray? 5. Keep your nose clean! 6. Mo--are we going to Ml? ?.Shower & toothbrush would be nice! 8.Lake Stepan and the SS Mo 9.He LICKED my lace! 1 O.Spaghelli again?! 
11. NICE COFFEE TABLE!! 12.Who's !akin 
care of Lisa tonile? 13.1'm a res ponsible drinker! 14.QTIP hurry up! 15.REALITY 'II 16. Not another Genuine Draft commerciaiii17.Mike can NOT get us drunk againll18. UH·OH the ROOMMATES are BACK!! ITS BEEN FUNI?I·mo,lisa,tanja,rlta 
SERENADES! SERENADES! English or Spanish songs Coslumes,tool Perfect lor all occasions. Call ED at 3239. Want Ia have it said? Have It sung! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KELLY FITZIII We 
love ya, DUDE! Thai's our roommate, 
aaaaaaahhl 
Love, T&L 
BOB FROM ALUMNI WHAT, MEN WITH LONG BEARDS? DONE ANY LATE NIGHT TAILGATING SINCE THE PURDUE GAME. I HAVENT SEEN YOU AROUND FOR A WHILE. HOW ABOUT DINNER SOMETIME? THE DRUNK WITH BRACES 
PLEASE. PLEASE, PLEASEIII I NEED a ride lo the Navy Game or the OC area this weekend. Can leave whenever, will pey almost any price!!!! PLEASE call Shannon, # 1331. THANKS!! 
TASTE FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
Food & entertainment at Chamelon 
Room, HAGGAR-SMC 
OCT. 27, 7·10 P.M. Sponsored by Sound and Student Gov't. $2 Adml881on al door. 
DISC JOCKEY WANTED. APPLY 

THURSDAY IN PERSON, 8 PM TO 10 PM AT THE SPORTS BAR, 746 S. ED­DY, OR CALL FROM 8-10 PM 233-4858. 
/ 
•. 



The Observer 
The Observer I Trey Raymond 

Ale off to an impressive start 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Arnold Ale is quickly proving that he has what it takes to excel in competitive college football. 
He is rapidly gaining recognition as the freshman who started at defensive end in front of Flash Gordon and Andre Jones in the Miami and Air Force games, and although Jones has reclaimed his starting role in the upcoming game against Navy, Ale continues to see plenty of action. 
"He is progressing well," said George Stewart, coach of defensive ends under Head Coach Lou Holtz. "For a freshman to come into a situation like Notre Dame, a big time college university, and to have done as well as he has done is really an ac­complishment.'' 
Ale, along with Jones and Gordon, is part of a very talented defensive end squad, and to have been entrusted with the starting job against the Hurricanes, the number one team in the nation at the time, is quite an accomplishment. 
"He's one of those kids that are a little different," said Stewart. "He's like a Derek Brown or like a Rocket Ismail in terms of a kid who can come in and play and help a football team as a young athelete." 
Fans may remember Ale 
intercepting a Darnell Dick­
erson pass at Pittsburgh 
with 3: 10 left in the fourth 
quarter, sealing the victory 
for Notre Dame. Or a fan 
may choose to recall his per­
formance in the Michigan 
game, where on a first quar­
ter kickoff he recovered a 
Michigan fumble on its own 
22 yard-line which led to a 

Volley 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame rallied behind the seniors. 
''This last road trip really drained us and the win will help our spirit," said Shewman. 
The Irish are coming off of their first ever top-twenty ranking last week as they grabbed the 18th spot before losing that ranking after losses to San Jos~ State, Minnesota, and Iowa. This win coupled with two wins this weekend should vault the Irish into the poll once again. 
38-yard field goal. 
"Starting against Miami was an unbelievable experi­ence," said Ale. "I was shocked at the time I found out I was starting. I had a hard time sleeping the night before, actually the whole week before. All of a sudden I had the starting job against the number one team in the nation." 
"Arnold played well against Miami," said Stewart. "It was good to see a young kid in a big game like that not losing his per­spective. He was just trying to help us win, and he really responded well to the chal­lenge." 
Ale came to Notre Dame as an an experienced high school athelete. He played outside linebacker and cap­tained the team his senior year at Carson High School, and in his last three years there Carson only lost three times. 
In 1987, Carson was ranked in the top five high school teams in the country throughout the year by USA Today. Ale was a big part of its success, including in his senior season 117 tackles, 22 sacks, and 45 tackles for minus-222 yards. 
Ale also earned letters in track as a high jumper and triple jumper and in basket­ball as a forward. 
Ale's experience in one of the best high school football teams in the country, in which eight players signed Division I scholarships, made his transition to Divi­sion I college football a little easier. It was not, however, without its surprises. 
"In high school there's 
maybe one guy who is 250 
pounds, but in college the 
whole line is 280," said Ale. 
"In high school you may be faster than others but in col­lege even the lineman are as fast as you." 


The people whom Ale credits the most in helping him along are the other de­fensive ends and his coach. 
"Coach Stewart has helped me a lot," said Ale. "He helps me not only in football but also in problems off the field. He's a great co­ach. 
"Frank Starns and Scott Kowalkowski, Flash (Gordon) and Andre (Jones), have helped a lot 
too," he continued. "We're all tight like a family." 
As for the present, Ale con­tinues to improve, but accor­ding to Stewart, still has some improvements to make. 
"The thing that Arnold has to improve on, the same as Andre Jones a year ago, is overall body strength," said Stewart. "Coming from high school, and coming into a college environment in over­all terms of strength, Arnold lacks a little bit. 
"But he's a kid that in a year or two with a little added weight, if he can get a little stronger physically, it will help him tremendous­ly," continued Stewart. 
Currently, the 6-4 end weighs in at 203, and Stewart would like to see that num­ber rise to 215. 
Despite these possibilities of improvement, Stewart isn't worried. 
"He is very easy to coac­h," said Stewart. "Yod tell him something once and he knows it. He's the kind that if he has a weakness he's willing to work to improve that weakness. He's the kind that whatever we ask him to do, he'll do to the best of his ability." 
Wednesday, October 26, 1988 

Irish soccer loses for first time in '88 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Losing three out of its last four matches, the Notre Dame men's soccer team has crashed from the unbeaten ranks with a loud thud. 
After an auspicious 10-0-2 start, the Irish have fallen vic­tim to three soccer teams (Akron, College of Charleston, and Rutgers), while routing one squad of lesser talent (DePaul). The losses dampen Notre Dame's hopes for an NCAA tournament berth, either from the Great Lakes region or at-large. 
"Those (non-region) games can help a lot if we win," ex­plained Irish head coach Den­nis Grace. "Rutgers was fifth in the nation and Charleston was seventh (in the NAIA). It all depends on how we do from here on out." 
The Irish took advantage of the fall break to travel east and play some top competition in Charleston and Rutgers. The Cougars of Charleston, though an NAIA team, had the experi­ence of many older, European players, and the Scarlet Knights had shut out eight of their 11 opponents. 
In both games Notre Dame played flat first halfs, falling behind 2-0. But a quick halftime strategy change allowed the Irish to dominate both second halves, only to lose 2-1 and 2-0 respectively. 
"We pulled our sweepers (at halftime)," said Grace of the two comeback attempts. "We 
went man-to-man all over the field. It worked really well in both cases. We may even start 
the  weekend's  games  (at  
Florida  International  in  
Miami) that way."  

Three of the four shots to elude Irish keeper Danny Lyons "were incredible", said senior captain Joe Sternberg. Notre Dame's lone score came on a Pat Murphy goal on an assist from Sternberg. 
"We're very disappointed in the results," said Grace, "but I'm happy with a lot of the things we did." 
The Irish's last game before the road trip saw the DePaul Blue Demons travel to Moose Krause Stadium. The game provided no inclination of the scoring woes Notre Dame would soon encounter. 
The Irish exploded for a 6-1 victory, featuring goals by Bruce "Tiger" McCourt, John Guignon, Danny Stebbins, Steve LaVigne, and the first collegiate goal for Diego Miron. 
"It was the first time we were healthy in a while, and it definitely showed," said Grace. 
Grace also noted at the time that Charlel;ton and Rutgers were the beginning of an im­portant month of matches out­side the region. Despite the losses, Grace remained happy with his teams performance. 
"Conference-wise, we're back to ground-zero," said Sternberg. "We have to win this weekend (in two big games down south). Our morale is still high." 


SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12TH 12:30-5PM 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP ? 
For couples in a serious relationship. who want to explore choices and decisions for the future. including the possibility of marriage. 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 

COMMENTS FROM LAST YEAR: -"an excellent opportunity to examine our relationship in a comprehensive way• -"It was very helplullor both of us" ·This seminar really helped to clarify where our relationship stands and where it is going" 
PnE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED 
1m 

Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office­OFFICE OF library Concourse or Badin Hall 0MPUS 
MNISTRY 

Applications are due by Nov.4th 
Wednesday, October 26, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
•

Men's cross country falls 1n poll after usc 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team has encountered difficulties of late, losing junior Mike O'Connor for the season and losing to USC away on Sat­urday. 
Two weeks ago, the team turned in an uninspiring perfor­mance at the Notre Dame In­vitational, tying for a disap­pointing fourth place. 
Earlier in the year, moreover, the Irish learned that sophomore Pat Kearns would be out for the year with an injury. Last week, Kearns underwent sugery for a hernia. 
Right before fall break, it was announced O'Connor would be out for the rest of the season with a stress fracture of the leg. This is the most damag­ing injury to the Irish because O'Connor was their number three runner. 
Last Saturday the Irish lost to Southern Cal 21-34 to even their record to 1-1. In only the second meeting between the two schools, in which Notre Dame dominated in the first one, the Irish performed below expectations. 
The dual meet saw USC take four of the top five positions, with the only Irish runner being senior Ron Markezich, who ran the 4.6-mile course in 23:28.42 for second place. 
Southern Cal runner Fredson Mayiek, from Kenya, won the race for the Trojans in 23:09.73. 
Junior Tom O'Rourke took sixth place in 24: 11.56. Fifth­year senior captain Dan Gar­rett, who had finished first or tied for first in every meet this year for the Irish, finished seventh in 24:11.82. 
Sophomore Ryan Cahill finished ninth in 24:21.50, and fifth-year senior Rick Mulvey finished tenth in 24:42.86. 
"We went into the meet un­prepared mentally," said Gar­rett. "We thought they would roll over and die for us but they were really ready for us." 
The loss was especially a shock because just the week 
position to attract Notre Dame at this point. The only restric­tion facing it is that since it is being played at the same time as the Rose Bowl, the Pac-10 and Big Ten have refused to al­low their runners-up to make the trip to Tempe, Ariz., for the Fiesta. 
"We're continuing to scout both the Pac-10 and the Big Ten," said Fiesta Bowl com­mittee member Dennis Ed­wards. "We can extend invita­tions to them, but it's probably a question as to whether they'd accept it." 
The success of major in­dependents like Notre Dame, West Virginia and Florida State this season probably make that matter irrelevant. Rumors persist of a Fiesta Bowl featuring a Notre Dame­Miami rematch, but according to Edwards, that also is irrele­vant. 

before the Irish were ranked fifth in the country in a national coaches poll. Now they are ranked 12th. 
With the Midwestern Col­legiate Conference Champion­ships coming up on Friday, the Irish cannot afford to be run­ning poorly, especially with in­juries. 
"We can't push the panic but­ton and train especially hard for the (MCC) race," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "We'll train how we have trained and been successful over the past couple of years. I think it's a matter of getting the runners fired up and running an agressive race. 
"The runners have to run more as a group and go off right from the gun,'' continued Piane. "The runners can't run passively and let someone else dictate the race." 
Running passively was ex­actly what Notre Dame did against USC. 
"They <USC) took the lead and we just kind of let them do it," said O'Rourke. "We gave up in the middle of the race." 
The Irish cannot give up at the MCC championships, with stiff competition coming from Loyola (Ill.), who definitely will be up for the race. 
"Everybody's going to be mentally prepared for it," said Garrett. "They'll be up for it, we'll be up for it. Things should get interesting." 
"We don't think that would taineers also have to travel to 
be a good game," said Ed­East Rutherford, N.J., for an 
wards. "We don't think that encounter with a pesky Rut-~ 
Notre Dame's team would find gers squad. 
that attractive. They beat 
Miami; I don't think that they The Fiesta also could pair the 
want to have to prove it again." Irish with once-beaten Florida 
Since the Fiesta does not State, a team that quietly has have any ties with conferences, won all its games since a 31-0 it also could set up a game be­season-opening embarrass­tween the Irish and West Vir­ment at the hands of Miami. ginia. The Mountaineers are The Seminoles still have to play this year's Syracuse-­at South Carolina and at home undefeated against a weak against arch-rival Florida. The schedule. West Virginia's toug­Big Eight runner-up, provided hest games left are at home it is either Nebraska or Okla­against Penn State and homa, is another possible Syracuse, but the Moun-Fiesta Bowl participant. 
LaRussa tops in AL 
Associated Press points in balloting by a commit­tee made up of two Writers NEW YORK-Tony LaRussa, from each AL city. La Russa who piloted the Oakland Ath­received 103 points, compared letics to a club-record 104 vic­with 89 for Morgan and 37 for tories and the American Sparky Anderson of the Detroit 

League pennant, was named Tigers.AL manager of the Year Tues­La Russa got 15 first-place 
Bowls 
continued from page 16 
tern Conference and Pac-10 Conference runners-up. 
Nebraska lost to UCLA, and Oklahoma fell to Southern Cal­ifornia. But both UCLA and USC are members of the Pac-10 Conference, whose champion faces the Big Ten winner in the Rose Bowl. That matchup fig­ures to include the winner of next month's UCLA-USC game against Michigan. 
The other New Year's Day bowls (actually being played on Jan. 2 this season) are the USF&G Sugar, the Mobil Cot­ton, the Sunkist Fiesta and the Citrus. The Citrus Bowl, held annually in Orlando, Fla., is considered in a class slightly below those other games. 
Notre Dame played in the Cotton Bowl at Dallas last season, where the Irish lost 35­10 to Southwest Conference champion Texas A&M. The SWC has a team off to a strong start for the first time in several years, as No. 11 Arkansas holds a 7-0 record. The Cotton Bowl still might not get the matchup it wants, however, because Arkansas has to play Miami on the road on Nov. 26. That's a week after invitations go out, and not many people will expect the Razorbacks to win at Miami. 
The Sugar Bowl, held in New Orleans and hosted by the Sout­heastern Conference cham­pion, still has no idea who will be attending its bowl. Georgia, Auburn, Alabama, Florida and Louisiana State all are atop the SEC standings with one loss apiece. 
The Sunkist Fiesta Bowl, which is not tied to any confer­ence appears to be in the best 
ve thought about it. 
You've bied to imagine what it would be like. 
You know it would be exciting. And a challenge. And quite possibly the most rewarding experience of your life •.. 
Three Americans overseas in Asia, Africa and South America speak frankly on what Peace Corps life is like for them. 
It isn't easy and it isn't for everyone-they'll tell you that up front. 
But if you've ever considered going overseas in the Peace Corps, then now is your chance to see and hear for yourself what could be "the toughest job you'll ever love." 
fute: Former Peace Corps volunteers will be on hand to answer questions following the 25 minute film. And it's free! 
Film Seminar Wed, Oct 26 at 7 p.m. in the Center For Social Concerns Interviews: Thurs & Fri Nov 3rd & 4th Career & Placement Office 
U.S. Peace Corps 
The Movie 
"The Toughest Job You'll f:ver Love" 
day by the Baseball Writers As­votes, six more than Morgan,sociation of America. who took over the struggling
La Russa, 44, edged Boston Red Sox at midseason and led 
manager Joe Morgan by 14 the club to the AL East title. 
liADDY BIQTliDAY 
MOM!!! 
With much love, Your Domers 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
MED/LL SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM GRADUATE PROGRAMS IN 
• Print and Broadcast Journalism 
• Corporate Public Relations 
• Direct Marketing 


• Advertising 
A Medill Representative looks forward to meeting you at St. Mary's Carnival of Careers Thursday, November 3, 1988 

Items 
continued from page 16 
20. 
Bowl-speculating can b.; such a waste of time. 

21. 
But its better than knowing you'll be idle on Janu­ary 2. 

22. 
No more questions--Notre Dame can run and throw the football against anyone in the country. 

23. 
Consequently, Notre Dame can beat anyone in the country. 

24. 
It takes more than that to say that they will beat anybody. 

25. 
Knute Rockne won a na­tional championship in his third year as head coach. 

26. 
Frank Leahy won a na­tional championship in his third year as head coach. 

27. 
Ara Parseghian won ana­tional championship in his third year as head coach. 

28. 
Dan Devine won a na­tional championship in his third year as head coach. 

29. 
Lou Holtz is now in his third year as head coach. 

30. 
Raising four fingers at the start of the fourth quarter is a new Hurricane tradition. 

31. 
It means that the fourth quarter belongs to them. 

32. 
Well, it used to mean that. 


33. 
Maybe now its for their AP ranking. 

34. 
In 1957 when Notre Dame stopped Oklahoma's 47-game winning streak, the students were given a day off from classes on Monday. 

35. 
Is that why we had last week off? 

36. 
It was not a fumble--stop crying, Jimmy. 

37. 
That was not Rick Telander's first Sports Ilustrated story on Notre Dame. 

38. 
In 1978 he did a feature on Bookstore Basketball after posing undercover as a player in the tournament. 

39. 
Mter living through that, he has a right to call us "rest­



less,  brainy,  athletic  wise  
guys."  
40. We are.  
41. And  we  have  an  unde­ 

feated football team too. 
42. 
Miami doesn't. 

43. 
But it does say a lot about a team when many still con­sider it the best team in the na­tion after losing. 

44. 
But all that matters is that 


they were not the best team in the nation in our Stadium on October 15. 
45. 
October 15 also marked the start of basketball season. 

46. 
Congrats to Digger Phelps and Company for a great midnight practice. 

47. 
Have you seen the basket­ball schedule? 

48. 
Somebody over there has the right idea--there is a lot more to a top-notch program than 20 wins and a tournament berth. 

49. 
Back to football, Ara was right--a phoenix is on the rise from the ashes of 1985. 

50. 
Tough-nosed do-everything Pat Eilers' touch­down run came on the fifth carry of his Notre Dame career. 

51. 
As big as this win was, so too were the holes in the Irish secondary. 

52. 
To their credit, the sec­ondary gave up no pass longer than 23 yards. 

53. 
That's pretty good consid­ering Miami's big-play offense averages 22 yards per touch­down play. 

54. 
Is it true Cleveland Gary now uses Stickum? 

55. 
Not to go out on a limb, but barring natural disaster 


Ill 
ALUMNI SENIOR 

the Irish are virtually 9-0 going into Penn State. 
56. 
Will the temperature ever reach this number again? 

57. 
SI said it best, Notre Dame Is Back! 

58. 
May this number rest in peace. 


Ice 
continued from page 16 

played poorly early in the game. Co-captain Matt Hanzel opened the scoring at 11: 20 of the first period off a rebound from a David Bankoske shot. 
The Seawolves answered less than three minutes later when Coulson scored a shorthanded goal which proved to be the beginning of the end for the Irish. 
"It looked like a question of who was going to play worse," said Schafer. ''We won that bat­tle." 
The game was delayed for about 20 minutes at 17:14 ofthe first period because of prob­lems with the plexiglass. Whatever happened during the delay, Alaska-Anchorage proceeded to score five goals in the second period and make the final20 minutes of the game 
~!CLUB 



WED: (J(};I(EtR(}cfcfTIIE 80ROERII/TII«t.... 
THURS: @[billill IiJO(BUKP *Senior Class Fundraiser w/ "Catholics in Bad Standing" FRI: [billliJ@[]J [b[J[i]@[]J [b([Jill@[]J 
mmmm D ~gffi]) 
9-2:00 AM UNITED WAY NIGHT 
SAT: 1111Lf()tt!EE;t/IE811rfll.! 
-eo~ta/fre eol(t~t ete. ete. ete. 
Wednesday, October 26, 1988 

Women beat USC, win first dual meet 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team pounded USC by a score of 19-36 last Saturday, evening its dual meet record at 1-1. 
The victory was a milestone for the young women's cross country program at Notre Dame as the team won its first dual meet ever in its three years of varsity existence. The runners did it with veterans and underclassmen in a total team effort. 
The Irish overwhelmed the Trojans by placing five runners in the top seven. Senior captain Theresa Rice finished first, posting a time of 14: 19 on the 2 1;2 mile course in Los Angeles. She was followed by freshman Lucy Nusrala in second and sophomore Terese Lemanski in fourth. Completing the point total for Notre Dame were juniors Linda Filar (fifth) and Wendy Murray (seventh). The top five Irish runners crossed the finish line within a minute of each other, lessening the gap between the first and fifth finis­hers for the team from earlier meets. 
"It was a big win for us," said women's coach Tim Connelly. "We ran well as a team for the first time. Seven kids came through, not just two or three." 
Connelly was particularly encouraged by the finishes of Lemanski and Murray. Both ran strongly as they contrib­uted to the victory. In previous races, the Irish did not have runners who would step for­ward to fill in the fourth and 
fifth spots for the team. 
"(Lemanski and Murray) 

were the ones I was hoping 
would break through, and they 
did," said Connelly. 
Rice continues to turn in ex­

ceptional performances for the 
squad. She has been the first 
member of the team to finish 
in three of the first four races 

that the Irish have contended 
in. Her consistency has been 
one of the positive aspects of 
the season so far. 
According to Connelly, the 
win at USC is an important con­
fidence builder for Notre Dame 
as they approach the Mjdwes­
tern Collegiate Conference 
Championships this Saturday 
in Chicago and the NCAAs in 
November.The Irish will be 
gearing up for these races 
beginning this week, and they 
will try to build on their success 
at USC. 
"If we run at the MCC Cham­
pionships the way we ran 
against USC, then we should 
win," said Connelly. "We're 
excited about the win, but we 
have to keep rolling." 

a mere formality. for the Seawolves to increase 
Catani singlehandedly their lead to 8-2. The Frantz turned a 1-1 game into a 4-1 goal was the last for Alaska­game by scoring three goals, Anchorage, and only fittingly, two of which were shor­was shorthanded. Notre thanded, in a span of less than Dame's Tim Kuehl closed the 10 minutes. Bobby Herber kept scoring at 15:25 of the final per­the game relatively close with iod. a goal at 11:24 of the period, but Steve Bogoyevac answered ''They didn't handle adver­Herber's score just 26 seconds sity well at all," said Schafer. later, and the the rout was on. "That adds to the dilemma of 
"They (Alaska-Anchorage) it all. That bothers me as much are a pretty good team," said as the bad plays. We were out­Schafer. "At times, they made manned badly against Western us look bad. But when they Michigan, but we never quit. were on the other side of the "This was a horrible ice, we looked bad." nightmare," Schafer contin-
Things didn't get any better ued. "I feel badly about it, and in the third period. Robb Conn we'll try to do something about and Dowell Frantz each scored it. " 
: IllALUMNI : 
*i~CLUB i * ! SENIORS! ! 
* *
* * 
: Want Senior Formal to be an : 
* * 
: Awesome Event? : : Then Come by the CLUB on Thurs. : *: N"19ht to see the * 
* * 
:"CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING" : 
* 
~ * 
~ and partake in the 1st Annual : : Senior-Formal ! 
* *
:SPORTS SPECTACULAR RAFFLE: :* Extravaganza!! *: * * 
: Buy raffle tickets at the dining halls :! on Tues. and Wed. Nights and at : : your CLUB on Wed & Thurs Nights. : : Drawing held on Thurs. at 1:00 a.m. ! 
* * 
: Also Remember, as always, :! Thurs. is CLUB NIGHT : 
························~·········••* 


Buzz Mcflattop 

~-~----------~­
Wednesday, October 26, 1988 
CAMPUS 
7 p.m. PresentationrReception for all Accountancy, Finance, Economics, and ALP A students interested in discovering career opportunities with Continental Bank, in the Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
9 p.m.-2 a.m. Senior Class Bachelorette Party, Chips Sports Bar. 
9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Book Sale on damaged and dusty books, Memorial Library Concourse. 
12:1o-1 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
6:30 p.m. Department of Religious Studies Film, "Me~orial of Underdevelopment," Little Theatre. 
7 and 9:15 p.m. Graduate Student Union Film, "Roots," Li­brary Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
8 p.m. "The New Face of Fiscal Federalism," by John Shan­non, senior fellow, the Urban Institute, past executive direc­tor, Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations. Hayes Healy Auditorium. 
8 p.m. "On the Ordering of Things: Heidegger and Foucault on the Dangers of Modernity," by Prof. Hubert Dreyfus, University of California, Berkeley. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Grilled Reuben Veal Steak Roast Turkey Swedish Meatballs-Rice Cheese Lasagna French Style Waffles 
Poached Sole Julienne Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
The Observer 
page 15 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Berke Breathed 

48"-ofTwo 
Cities" 50 Juarez money 52 Eastern bigwigs' 
JUrisdictions 55 Berlin's "He's 
-Picker" 56 Greenhorn 58 Northern 
dwelling 59 Eliminates. 
editorially 60 OE.D. word 61 Pete or Billy 62" .what­
thou?" Amos 7 8 63 Wimp's cousin 
DOWN 
1 Lea sound 2 Matterhorn 
milieu 3 Engrossed 4 Ops's daughter 5 NYS.E. people 6 Donees 7 Pains' partner a Gang follower 9 Brick carrier 
10 To this matter 11 Be grateful 12 Cupola 13 Helper Abbr. 18 Dobbin fodder 21 Mel of animated 
cartoon fame 

23 Jeanne d'Arc. for 33 Female ruff one. Abbr. 35 Novel 24 Jiffy conclusion 
25 Halter, Spanish 36 Some style consonants 40 Whom the riled 
26 Estimates 
raise 28 These may be 

41 Least obese lost in gyms 
45 Aida of 29 Follow 

"M*A*S*H" 30 Seven, in Siena 48 Sufficient 
The Far Side 
49 A.L. home-run leader 1944 50 Poker holding 51 Therefore 52 Rapier's relative 53 Gael's land 54 Cicatrix 56 Madison Ave. output 57 La Guardia abbr 
. 
Gary Larson 
ACROSS 
1 Chagall or Connelly· 5 Refuse 10"Mary­little .. " 14 Wings 15 Right-hand page 16 Primitive poetry collection 11 Came near 19 Mechanics' concerns Abbr. 20 Less flighty 21 Soft. visorless cap 22 Stages 23 PIVOt 
24 Refra1n syllable 27 -Lanka 28 Postures 31 Knock 32 Figure skater's 
maneuver 34 Drive forward 37 Teachers' org. 38 Pac1fic or Gold 39The­
(brother-slster singing team) 42 Famous mummy 43 Actresses Joyce 
and Stritch 44 Clean-air org. 46 Unusual Oxford 
meas. 47 -'Orleans, in Quebec 
r.:-+7:+::+.::-t 
~ 


Mike Muldoon 


Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer advertising. 

Call 239-6900 



~-~-­
The Observer I Laura Matthias Alaska-Anchorage throttled the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, spoiling the home opener for the Irish hockey team 8-3 Tuesday In the Joyce ACC and dropping their record to 1-3. 
Fifty-eight ways to NO volleyball destroys Ohio State 
.~ 
remember Oct. 15 
It's been 11 days but the images are still fresh and so is the feeling. Notre Dame beat Miami and is 7-0 now. Amazing.. 
Amazing when you look at how far the Irish have come since three years ago. A lot has been said about this last game, but here are some thoughts on what occured on October 15 and where it leads us to today. 
1. 
Miami's Donald Ellis said Notre Dame was no differ­ent to him than Central Florida. Central Florida won on October 15 too. 

2. 
Akron didn't though. Gerry Faust's team lost to Auburn 42-0. 


of a season ending knee injury Brian 
suffered in the recent road trip. Wagner's loss will hurt theO'Gara Irish even though they did not show it against the Buckeyes. 
lrtsh Items 

The match was a blow-out 
3. 
In the post-game press conference, Jimmy Johnson said that he didn't think Notre Dame put much pressure on his Steve Walsh. 

4. 
Did he see the same game I did? Frank Starns prob­ably has a different opinion, too. 

5. 
Speaking of Starns, in the post-game press conference he opened with "Did y'all see Elvis in the stands? I left a ticket for him." 

6. 
That was the first thing on his mind after beating the No.1 team. 

7. 
After everything else that happened that day, I wouldn't be surprised if old swivel-hips himseJf was some­where in Rockne Stadium. 

8. 
Brent Musberger is the most bandwagon broadcaster in college football. 

9. 
His sidekick, Boy Wonder Pat Haden, wasn't exactly neutral in his praise for the Hurricanes, either. 

10. 
But then again, USC alumnus Haden would probably eat liver before giving the Irish a compliment. 

11. 
Fortunately ABC is covering the USC game on No­vember 26. 

12. 
Let Miami talk rematch--it'll never happen. 

13. 
The only place the two teams could meet ~gain this year is in the Fiesta Bowl and its representatives have said they have no plan to do that. 

14. 
Besides, Notre Dame and Miami have played 11 times on Grace Hall's TV station and the Irish have won everytime. Why play again? 

15. 
Speaking of bowls, Southern Cal holds the key to the national championship. 


Hi. If the Trojans win all their remaining games they will be No. 1. h 
17. 
No other football team in the country can say t at unconditionally. 

18. 
But Southern Cal also has the toughest road_. 

19. 
Comparisons of how ND and UCLA do ~ga~st the Trojans will determine the top-ranked team gorng rnto the bowl games. 


see ITEMS, page 14 
Sports 
Wednesday, October 26, 1988 

Alaska ices Irish in home opener 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
The good news for Notre Dame hockey fans during Tuesday night's home opener was that a bundle of goals were scored during Irish power. plays. 
Unfortunately, it was Alaska-Anchorage which was doing all the scoring. The Seawolves took advantage of four shorthanded goals to thrash the Irish, 8-3. 
"There is an old joke in hockey to decline the penalty," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "Four shorthanded goals--that could be a record. That's hor­rendous." 
Notre Dame's power play blues were only part of a nightmarish performance that left Schafer bewildered about his 1-3 squad. 
"I'm really disappointed," said Schafer, who directed last year's team to a 27-4-2 record against a considerably weaker schedule. "This was supposed 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's volleyball team destroyed an unimpressive Ohio State team without two of their usual starters Tuesday at the Joyce ACC. Zanette Bennett ar.d Col­leen Wagner both missed the match. Bennett was not able to participate due to sickness, while Wagner missed because 
from the start as Notre Dame crushed Ohio State 15-5, 16-14, 15-7. In the first game, the Irish jumped out to a 10-3 lead early and never looked back. Mary Kay Waller and Kathy Cunnin­gham snuffed the Buckeye hit­ters with numerous blocks as the rest of the Irish team 
Bowl picture unscrambling as bid date draws nearer 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 

With top-ranked UCLA and No. 3 USC aiming for the Rose Bowl, the Notre Dame football team is No. 2 in the polls and No. 1 in the hearts of the New Year's Day bowl selection com­mittees. 
Representatives from the Cotton, Fiesta, Orange, Sugar and Hall of Fame bowls atten­ded Notre Dame's 41-13 victory over Air Force, which im­proved the Irish record to 7-0. 
"The tradition of Notre Dame, its 101-year football his­tory, being a national team and just the mystique of Notre Dame makes it attractive," said Orange Bowl committee president Jim Barker. "Lou Holtz has brought Notre Dame backed them up with acrobatic digs. 
Freshman Jennifer Slosar started her first match of the season for the ailing Bennett. She led Notre Dame with eight digs and also contributed six kills. The 6-1 middle blocker played well throughout the game as she overcame first game jitters. 
"I was very nervous for the first few points, but after the match started to flow, I forgot about all my nervousness," said Slosar. 
In the second game the Irish were challenged by the out­manned Buckeyes. Unforced errors and service problems plagued Notre Dame through­out eventhough they never trailed by more then four points. A Waller service ace turned the tide for the Irish as they went on a five point surge. After a see-saw battle, Notre Dame prevailed in the end to win 16-14. 
Julie Bremner, as usual, 

back and made them a team to be reckoned with from now on out." 
Bowls can not officially ex­tend invitations to schools until Nov. 19, the day of the Notre Dame-Penn State game. Rumors of which teams are going where start being spread long before that time. 
"Prior to that time (Nov. 19) it's a courtship," said USF&G Sugar Bowl committee president-elect Jim Flower. "You can hold each other's hand, maybe squeezing it a little. You can't ask to marry yet, but you can say you're serious with your commit­ment." 
Miami's Orange Bowl fea­tures the Big Eight Conference champion against another team, and its winner has taken to be our home opener, festive and lively. This was like going to a New Year's Eve party with your folks. 
"We're not that bad," Schafer continued. "If we're that bad, we belong with the Mini-Mites and not in college hockey.'' 
Tony Catani and Troy Coul­son led the scoring attack for Alaska-Anchorage. Catani had a hat trick with two assists, while Coulson scored once and recorded three assists. 
"Coulson played a well­rounded game tonight," said Seawolves coach Brush Chris­tiansen, whose team improved to 2-3 on the season. "He's one of our best team players as far as getting back on defense and making the most of opportuni­ties. The opportunities came, and he set Tony up with a couple of goals." 
Notre Dame actually kept the game close in the first per­iod, if only because both teams 
see ICE, page 14 
played well for the Irish. She recorded 39 assists in 87 at­tempts. Quicks sets by Brem­ner to Waller were the key to Irish momentum. 
"Julie set extemely well tonight considering we were so tired," said Waller. "She was on target with everything tonight and that makes my job much easier." 
The third game was as easy as the first for Notre Dame as they cruised 15-7. Senior Whit­ney Shewman sparked the Irish with three service aces in the game and four for the match. Bremner and Waller teamed up again, this time for blocks, as the duo recorded three tan­dem blocks for the game. Wal­ler led Notre Dame with 12 blocks, while Bremner contrib­uted eight. 
Inspiration was a definite factor that contributed to the win. Being down two starters, 
see VOLLEY, page 12 
the national title for three of the last five years. 
That does not figure to be the case this season. Oklahoma and Nebraska are the Big Eight's two traditional powers, and both teams already have lost once this year. 
"It's disappointing, but you can't have them up there every year," said Barker. "You have to have them rebuild. We're ob­viously disappointed that they're not at the of the rankings this year." 
Barker also said the selection committee has narrowed its choices for the bowls non-Big Eight representative to Notre Dame, No.6 Florida State and No. 7 West Virginia, with longshots being the Southeas­
see BOWLS, page 13 



