IACCENT: 'Glass Menagerie' IVIEWPOINT: Impetus of Jackson ticket 


VOL. XXI, NO. 122 THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Convention promotes
Mock Convention Results 
660 total delegates 



political awareness 
L---1
D_u_ka_k_is_______________,JI384* 
By GINA CAMARENA Maryland, agree that the con­News Staff vention has made them more politically aware of world is­Speeches, rallies and enthus­sues and the nominating
IL--S_im_o_n_____________,l2&8* 
iasm marked the third night of process in general. "I don't the Mock Convention as know enough about what's delegates continued efforts to going on in the world today -­choose a Democratic presiden­it forces you to become aware
Gore lost 4th vote by 61 delegates 
tial nominee. of the issues," said Gaeta. 
Although the primary objec­Gaeta said she also felt the tive is to select a nominee, the emotional debates about abor­delegates agreed the conven­tion and capital punishment 
tion itself is invaluable in gen­were a positive reflection of erating political awareness how "people this age feel re­among students. sponsible for such issues." 
Jackson lost 3rd vote by 24 delegates 
Half of the 600 delegates ex­Hutton agreed that although 
* total delegates 
pected have actually partici­she "didn't know much about pated, said Press Secretary the process itself" until she be­
CHRIS DONNELLY/ TheObserver Brian McCarthy, but added came involved, she "has this is "really good" consider­learned a lot about the issues ing "people signed up not facing the candidates and knowing what was involved." facing the nation in general." 
Cuomo lost 2nd vote by 1 delegate In final vote 


Dukakis sweeps votes on 
"People are interested and The convention, especially want to know the process of the with the debates, said Hutton, presidential convention," "makes you think about your 
McCarthy said. The students own views and whether they 

involved take the event serious­are consistent." By MARK MCLAUGHLIN (Gov. Mario) Cuomo" cam­"We didn't really expect this ly, said McCarthy, but added, Delegates Missy Irving and News Editor paign suffered defeat after the much of a fight," Bettencourt "It's a fun seriousness with a Alex Deichak had different 
second ballot, Rev. Jesse Jack­added. In the four roll call votes sense of humor." reasons for their involvement. 

fifth ballot of convention 
Mary Gaeta and Carol Hut­Amid shouts and screams, son survived until the third bal­before the final vote, Dukakis 

wheeling and dealing, and lot, and Sen. Albert Gore was had a much narrower lead over ton, both delegates from see DELEGATE, page 6 
some hard-fought campaign­eliminated on the fourth ballot. Simon. 
ing, Gov. Michael Dukakis was Since the convention rules 
declared the presidential planned for more than five can­"I'd like to thank the nominee at the Mock Conven­didates, the first vote did not 'Graceland coalition'," said tion last night. eliminate any candidates on Simon mock campaign Dukakis' campaign won the the ballot, said Steve Claeys, manager Bill Smith after the final vote by a count of 364 rules comittee chairman. final vote. The "Graceland delegates to 268 for runner-up Mark Bettencourt, mock coalition" ran a highly visible Paul Simon out of a total of 660 campaign manager for the campaign, sporting bright red available delegates. Dukakis campaign, said he was buttons and bowties of every The voting process consisted "very pleased with the way it description. "We tried to be as of a multiple runoff vote, with turned out. I'd like to congrat­serious as we could, while still 
one candidate being eliminated ulate every one of the other 
after every vote. The "draft campaigns." see VOTE, page 6 
Soviets accused of faking troop withdrawal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C.­
The Soviets, on the verge of signing an agreement call­ing for their withdrawal from Afghanistan, sent large numbers of trucks across the border this week and some administration sources said they contained up to 15,000 fresh combat sol­diers. 
At the same time, Soviet 

rmored units already in Af­
hanistan moved south from 
abul to relieve the 
eleaguered city of Gardez, 
ccording to intelligence 
ources. 
Analysts who monitor the 
see TROOPS, page 4 

Senator speaks live via satellite at MNC 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR would be a "very historic Staff Reporter achievement," because it would mark the first reversal 
Indiana Senator Dan Quayle of Soviet expansion since the spoke live via satellite from institution of communism in Washington D.C. about the the Soviet Union in 1917. major issues facing presiden­The INF Agreement "must tial candidates in 1988 at the be addressed by the next pres­Mock National Convention ident," said Quayle, who sup­Wednesday evening. ports the agreement because 
The Republican senator, in "it has more good things about his twenty minute speech to it than it does on the Notre Dame's mock delegates downside." As positive aspects and spectators, primarily ad­of the treaty, Quayle cited the dressed the topics of national proposed decrease in the num­security and the ineffective­ber of nuclear weapons and the ness of the Indiana primary in increase in inspections allowed determining presidential can­by both the United States and didates. the Soviet Union. On the 
Quayle cited what he downside, he mentioned the believes to be the four major decrease of the nuclear threat 
components of the national se­in Europe as providing less of 
curity dilemma: Afghanistan, a deterrent for conventional 
the INF agreement, SDI, and 
war. Nicaragua. Thirdly, Quayle said he 
Quayle said the removal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan 
see QUAYLE, page 5 


page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1988 

In Brief 
Trapped in a bird cage for nearly 12 hours, an 85-year-old woman escaped without injury. The New Al­bany women, Clara Blankenburg, who shares her home with about 30 pets slipped and fell backward into the up­turned 4-by-4 foot cage about 1 a.m. Tuesday but refused treatment from the Health Department. Her animals, which include cats, dogs, birds and at least one opossum were left on the premises by the rescuers pending an in­spection by state health officials. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Mock Convention coverage will continue today at 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. on 640 WVFI-AM. Live reports will also be given throughout the night. -The Observer 
TheCampusPerspectivestalkshowwillfeatu~e a special edition today of guests from the Mock Convention from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. on WVFI-AM 640. Host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Student Art Forum will meet today at 5 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art to elect officers for 1988-89. -The Observer 
A forum to discuss opinions and ask questions regarding the Residentiality and Alcohol task force reports will be held today at 6:30 p.m. at Lewis Hall for Carroll, Holy Cross and Lewis; and at 9 p.m. at Flanner. -The Observer 
Seniorclass ''BackpacktoBriefcase''lecturescontinue today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. Topics include "Invest­ments" by Jim Stone of the CM Financial Group and "In­surance" by John Lloyd of the Lloyd Insurance Agency. 
-The Observer 

All economics majors and faculty are invited to a free pizza dinner today at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Peace With Justice Week continues today with a multi-media presentation called "People to People," which documents the journey of 31 citizens of Seattle, Wash. to the Soviet Union to deliver a petition for peace with 42,000 signatures. Aldon and Betsy Bell, who were part of the trip, will present it at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Brown Bag Seminars continue with "Journalism during the Transition to Democracy in Brazil" by Carlos Eduardo Lins da Silva of the Woodrow Wilson Interna­tional Center for Scholars. The event will take place Friday at noon in 105 Law School. -The Observer 
An international conference titled "Gospel Traditions in the Second Century: Origins, Rescensions, Texts and Transmissions" will be convened April 15 through 17 at the Center for Continuing Education. Eight scholars of international reputation from England, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Canada, and the U.S. will address questions concerning the earliest form of the Christian gospels. For more information call239-6691. -The Observer 
NotreDameAccountingAssociationissponsoring a trip to Crowe Chizek, one of the nation's fastest growing accounting firms, Monday, April 18, from 2:30p.m. to 5 
p.m. Sign up at the Accounting office. -The Observer 
Peace Corps Overseas Undergraduate In~ernship applications are available at the Center for Social Con­cerns the Peace Institute and Room 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who are Amer­ican citizens are eligible; candidates should have demon­strated interest in community service and potential to live and work overseas. Fall, spring or summer placements are possible. For more information call239-5142. -The Ob­server 

Design EditOT .. . ............ Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor .. MicheUe Berninger Design A.,istant ............. Kim Evans Accent Layout ................. Rachel O'Hara Typesetters... . .................. Mike Buc Typist . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ............ Lynsey Strand ..................................... Smed-Dog Laboe ............................................ Jenn Conlon News Editor...................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler Copy EditOT .... ..... ... . Erin Lynch SMC Day Editor ............... Joanne Grillo Sports Copy Editor............................ DC Photographer .......................... Sue Poch Viewpoint Copy EditOT .. Brian Broderick 
ne ~(USPS $99 2-4000) ia published Monday throuah Friday except 
duriJI& exam and vacation periods. neOlleerfer is publiahed by the students of the 
University or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqc:. Sublcriptions may be purchas­
ed lor S40 per year ($15 per ICIIICitcr) by writiq "he Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, ladiua 46,56. 
ne ....._ia a member orne ~... r-. All reproduction ri&hts are 
raerwd. 


A love once flipped for is never forgotten 
Wednesday, April6, started out like any other day. 
I came back from my morning classes, read the Chicago Tribune in my room, then went across the hall to read a friend's copy of USA Today. 
Sifting through the 257 or so stories USA Today finds room to fit on a single page, one stuck right out at me. 
Using their incomparable investigative jour­nalistic skills, USA Today reporters asked 1984 gold medal winner Mary Lou Retton if she had a steady boyfriend. And Mary Lou replied that she was indeed seeing someone in Texas. 
Wednesday, April 6, marked the end of my adolescence. 
I should have seen it coming eventually. After all, it was almost four years since I had developed a terminal crush on Mary Lou by watching the 1984 Summer Olympics on televi­sion. But the sudden ending of it all in a USA Today story (she could at least have sent a Dear John letter, for crying out loud) made me immediately begin reminiscing about my last innocent adolescent infatuation. 
It began when I watched the Olympics on television that year. I had read some pre­Games publicity about some 4'9" pixie from Fairmont, W.Va., who was the USA's top hope in the gymnastics competition at Los Angeles. But when I actually saw her, I was spellbound. 
I was attached to the set for the remainder of the week, cheering her on as she garnered perfect scores in the floor exercises and vault, becoming the first American to win a gold medal in the women's all-around competition. 
During the next week, I picked up copies of Time, Newsweek, Sports Illustrated and People, all of which had Mary Lou pictured on the cover. The magazines still are collecting dust on my bookshelves. Okay, maybe I've kept them from getting too dusty. 
Now it was time to start defending the latest object of my affections from the inevitable criticism. 
She's too short. Heck, I'm only 5'6". Mary Lou is just the right height for me. She has fat thighs. She's got powerful thighs. She's so fat. She weighs only 92 lbs. I looked it up in a Sports Illustrated article. 
This one-way romance reached its utopian heights a couple of weeks after the Olympics. My family was in Orlando, and the Olympic medal-winners were touring Walt Disney World for a day. I saw Mary Lou, surrounded by a mob of people, heading for Fantasyland (I'm not searching for a pun; she really was going to Fantasyland, walking toward It's A Small World). 
I immediately ran as fast as I could, and 
before I knew it, I was side by side with the 
woman of my dreams (Well, actually there was a security guard between us, but let's not gettechnical) . 

Mary Lou turned to her right and handed me an American flag that she was holding. Okay, what really happened was that she said, "Does anybody want this flag?" a friend of mine ended up getting the flag, and I grabbed the flag from my friend. But why get into sordid details? 
I spent the rest of the day clutching that flag with all my might. Catastrophe almost struck when I was riding Pirates of the Caribbean, and water somehow got on the flagpole, but I reassured myself that the water did not land on the part of the flagpole that Mary Lou had touched. 
This Mary Lou infatuation lasted a little while longer. I collected magazine advertisements that had my dreamgirl endorsing Energizer batteries, Wheaties, Pony shoes and Vidal Sas­son. 
But I never went overboard. I didn't boycott the Duracell corporation. I didn't wake up early and sit through the Smurfs on weekends, so I could watch Mary Lou's Saturday morning ex­ercise programs. (Actually, those came out a couple of years after the Olympics, and by that time the Smurfs seemed in better shape than Mary Lou.) 
So my crush on Mary Lou had just about worn out by the time I heard the terrible news last week. But it still caused me to reflect on those old adolescent crushes of my pre-college days. 
I wonder what Kristy McNichol has been up to lately. 
-~--~--------------~--------· 
Crank tunes fOr Cash!!! 
Are you interested? 
Theodore's D.J. applications for the '88-'89 school year are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor LaFortune. They must be turned in by April 20. 
--~ ~ 

Thursday, April 14, 1988 
Hijackers stubborn, talks deadlocked 
Associated Press :;;ter, affirmed Wednesday his 
country's "unwavering and 

ALGIERS, Algeria -An Al­principled stance of rejecting 
gerian official said Wednesday blackmail," the Persian Gulf 
that Kuwait's "intransigence" sheikdom's official nPws 
had created a deadlock in agency KUNA reported. "We 
negotiations with Shiite Mos­would not change our atti­
lem hijackers for the release of tude." 
32 hostages on a Kuwaiti jumbo A ranking Algerian official 
jet. told The Associated Press 
Food and water were taken privately: "If they merely 
in the afternoon to the blue-and­wanted to restate their known 
white Boeing 747, which the position, there was no need for 
hijackers call the "plane of them to send their high-level 
martyrdom." It baked under delegation to Algiers." He said 
the North African sun on an iso­"the intransigence" of Kuwait 
lated patch of tarmac at Houari had stalled negotiations. 
Boumedienne airport. His remarks appeared to 
A delegation from Kuwait ar­confirm unofficial reports that 
rived Wednesday afternoon to Algeria was pressing Kuwait 
help in efforts to free the for more flexibility. 
remaining hostages and the The jet left Larnaca, Cyprus, 
plane, which was hijacked early Wednesday after 12 more 
April 5 on a flight from hostages were released. They 
Bangkok to Kuwait with 112 arrived Wednesday night in 
people aboard. Kuwait and were met by the 
It spent three days on the interior minister, Sheik Salem 
ground in Mashhad, Iran, flew Sabah al-Sabah. 
to Cyprus on Friday and ar­On the same Boeing 727 to 
rived here early Wednesday. Kuwait were the bodies of the A mock Secret Service agent keeps the convention sponsible for enforcing the two minute time limit forThe six to eight gunmen, who two slain passengers, their cof­in control via communication with his cohorts in crime speakers and escorting unruly delegates out.
have killed two passengers, fins drapped in the red, black, 
prevention. Agents at the Mock Convention are re-
demand that Kuwait free 17 green and white Kuwaiti flag. 
pro-Iranian extremists con­Fifty-seven other hostages 
victed in the 1983 bombings of were freed at Mashhad, a city 
Woman has abortion against
the U.S. and French embassies in northeastern Iran. Pas­
there. The hostages included sengers released Tuesday said 
three members of the Kuwaiti one gunman boarded the plane 
court order, faces charges
royal family. at Massad and the hijackers Sheik Nawaf ai-Ahmed ai­got a new supply of weapons 
Associated Press
Sabah, Kuwait's defense mini-there. for an immediate review of a the man who claims to be the INDIANAPOLIS-An 18-Vigo Circuit Court injunction to father of the fetus, said the year-old Terre Haute woman prohibit an abortion. Terre Haute man "is ab­

Real Estate Analyst Program 
has undergone an abortion in Attorneys for both the wo­solutely devastated that his violation of a court order to man and her 24-year-old child has been taken from
Let Our High-Powered Program 

prevent her from terminating boyfriend, who sought the in­him."
Be APrelude To Your MBA! 

her pregnancy, the woman's junction, said they still want Bopp said he and his client 
Want some rock solid investment real estate 

attorneys said Wednesday. the Supreme Court to make a haven't thought about whether 
experience before proceeding with your graduate 

The attorneys sent a notice decision on the issues raised by they would want Vigo Circuit
education? Then consider this great opportunity with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest owner 

of the abortion to the Indiana the case. Because the case in­Court Judge Robert Brown to 
of income producing real estate. 

Supreme Court one day after volves a paternity action, nei­issue a contempt citation 
asking the high court Tuesday ther the woman nor man has against the woman for violat­
We're looking for enthusiastic, intelligent BA's and 

_______-.. been identified by name in ing Brown's injunction. Brown
BS's (who are already planning to attend a top business school in 1990) for two year stints in our 

·r All• d f1court records. issued a permanent injunction 
real estate analyst program. To qualify, you'll need 

I e ' "Faced with the decision of on Monday. 
a B+ or better undergraduate GPA and the skills 

t ' continuing with an unwanted However, in a brief filed with 
required for complex mathematical real estate 

the Supreme Court, Boppt Sht.ppt·ng ,pregnancy and with violating~
modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 

, ' court order, she made the deci-argued that a violation of the
Not only do these positions provide outstanding on-the-job training and experience, they offer very 

'Let us pack and ship yourf sion sh~ felt_ was right,:• said injunction should be punish­
able by a contempt of court
attractive starting salaries with comprehensive 

' felectronic equipment ' the notice signed ~Y RichC;lr~
benefits. 

. '' Waples, an Indiana Civil citation.
tstereo, etc. direct to you1 Liberties Union attorney who Waples told the court that he 
fhome by UPS -Emery. t represented the unmarried wo-wants it to review the case be­
cause of the issues involved, 
To apply, send your resume (including GPA) to: 
The Prudential Realty Group 

t 219-277-7616 t m~~he arrived at the decision the precedent set by Brown's
Detroit Realty Group Office 
2000 Town Center, Suite 2280 

t Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri , to terminate h_er pr~gnancy injunction and potential sanc­
Southfield, Michigan 48075 

• , ' after consultation with her tions against the woman. 
Attention: Analyst Program 

fUmvers1ty Commonst family and her physician," the 
f SR 23 & Hickory t statement said. "She did what "Fathers have rights in par­
. she had to do to protect both ticular cases. All we said in this 
The Prudential~ 
t Western Umon t her physical and emotional case is we want those rights to be balanced" against the rights Realty Group 
L Available ' health." 
'-----...;...-~------------------' ________, James Bopp, who represents of the mother, Bopp said. 

I 
TOTAL COST: 
$400_00 estimated 
$150.00 deposit up-front on the 18th 
OPTIONAL ACTIVITIES: 
(may require additional funds) 
• 
Disneyland 

• 
San Diego's Sea World 

• 
Universal Studios 

• 
Hollywood Movie Star's Homes 

• 
6 Flags Magic Mountain 

• 
etc. 




u • s • c 

FOR THANKSGIVING 
PACKAGE INCLUDES: 
• 
Round Trip Air Fare 

• 
4 Nights in the Anaheim Marriott 

• 
Transportation to and from the game and a ticket to the game 

• 
N_O. parties at the hotel 

• 
etc. 



SIGN-UPS: 
MONDAY, APRIL 18 
I
*Final payments will be due
Student Union Board Office 
when we return in the Fall. Haggar Student Center SMC 6:00-8:00 P.M. 
-----------~------­
Thursday, April 14, 1988 

U.S. merchants join Soviets to market capitalist products 
Associated Press in recent months. James Giffen, president of MOSCOW -Seven major the new American Trade Con­
U.S. companies said Wednes­sortium involving the seven day they've joined forces with companies, said this week's ac­the Soviets to produce every­tivity could lead to an thing from crackers to com­unprecedented volume of U.S.­puter disks in a consortium that Soviet trade. will market capitalist products Giffen, who also is president in a socialist economy. of the Mercator Corp., attrib­
In addition, U.S. industrialist uted the trade successes to "the Armand Hammer announced a improved political atmo­joint venture under which he sphere" following Soviet Com­will build two plastics factories munist Party General Secre­in the Ukraine. tary Mikhail Gorbachev's visit 
to the United States in Decem­

U.S. Commerce Secretary C. ber. William Verity and a group of Both governments beganabout 400 American business campaigning for expansion of leaders are in Moscow this commercial ties after the week for meetings with Soviet Washington summit, the leader Mikhail Gorbachev and businessmen said. other officials about the possi­The Soviets are activelybility of expanding trade be­seeking joint business projects tween the superpowers. with capitalist countries to help 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch Several agreements have improve the quantity andBraking away been announced already, and quality of consumer goods a.nd Coasting past the construction site of Knott and warm and sunny day. With the weather Mother Nature the businessmen say the to earn convertible foreign cur­
climate for broader coopera­rencies to pay for grain and
Siegfried Halls, this gent takes time out to enjoy a has been spinning out lately, it's no wonder. 






Troops 
continued from page 1 
fighting disagreed over whe­ther the trucks which moved across the border contained troops. One source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they apparently were empty and intended for use in a Soviet withdrawal. 
Another source said the trucks were believed to contain elite combat units to replace engineering and other support troops that are thought likely to be among the first to be pulled out. 
The activity was reported the day before the Soviets were ex­pected to sign as guarantors of a United Nations agreement on the withdrawal of the Red Army from Afghanistan. 

The Soviet units headed for Gardez, 80 miles south of Kabul and 60 miles from the Pakistani border, consisted of an un­determined number of soldiers and 420 vehicles, including T-72 tanks, armored personnel car­riers and mobile rocket launchers, said one adminis­tration source. 
Mujahedeen guerrillas recently cut the road to Gardez, where a Soviet special forces, or spetsnaz, regiment is gar­risoned, said one source. 
The advancing column and the spetsnaz regiment are also expected to attack stockpiles of 
guerrilla armaments. 
Correction 
Because of editing errors, the following information was incorrectly reported in Wednesday's Observer arti­cle about the Hall Presi­dents' Council. 
St. Edward's Hall Rector Father Gene Gorski was one of two finalists for Rector of the Year. His name was in­advertently omitted. The winner of the award was Fa­ther George Rozum of Alumni Hall. His name was misspelled in the article. In addition, the rector of Sorin Hall is Mr. Joseph McKenna. 

tion has warmed considerably 
other· 
Howto make ahit. 

TI1e American Express• Card is a hit virtually aJl)'Where you shop, from Los Angeles to London. Whether you're buying hooks, baseball tickets or brunch So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first 

sign of success. And because we believe in vour potential, we've made it easier for students of this school to get !he AmericaJl Express Card right now-even without a joh or a credit historv. So whether vou·re an lliJderclassman, 'senior or grad student. look into our automatic approval offers. For details pick up an application on campus. Or call 1-XOO-THE-CAW> and ask for a student application. The American Express Card. 
Dord Leave School Without Ie 

SMC poetry reading features Levertov 
Special to The Observer 
Poet Denise Levertov, ac­claimed for more than two decades for her modest and moving verse, will present a reading today at 8 p.m. in Car­roll Auditorium on the Saint Mary's College campus. 
Praised by fellow poet and critic Kenneth Rexrothas "the most subtly skillful poet of her generation," Levertov has numerous volumes of verse, es­says, broadsides and limited editions to her credit since the first American publication of her work in 1948. Her collection "The Freeing of the Dust," published by New Directions Press, won the Lenore Mar­shall Poetry Prize in 1976. 
with the work and traditions of the Black Mountain school, Walt Whitman and William Carlos Williams. She has also been noted for the beauty and sensuality of her nature poems, her haunting poems on grief, love of friends and friendship and for her condemnation of war and assaults against na­ture. 
Her recent collection, "Breathing the Water" (New Directions), draws upon themes of spirituality and warns of the failure to respond to the beauty of the real world. 
Through her forceful and passionate presentation of ur­ban lives, Levertov has been 

Under sunny skies, Brandon, left, and his Big Brother Sisters program and adopt South Bend youths as
most frequently associated 

get some kicks out of a soccer ball. Many Notre token siblings. Dame students participate in the Big Brothers-Big 


$6.3M Loftus Sports Center dedicated this month 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will dedicate Loftus Sports Center April 23. 
The $6.3 million indoor sports center is 614 feet by 210 feet and contains the Haggar Fitness Complex and Meyo Field. Alumni benefactors involved are John Loftus of St. Charles, II., chief executive officer of JRL investments; the Haggar family of Dallas, who own the Haggar Apparel Company, and Raymond Meyo, president and chief executive officer of Tel­xon Corp. in Akron, Ohio. 
The building, designed by Ellerbe Becket Architects in Minneapolis, opened for full use last November. In addition to the Haggar and Meyo facilities, it contains men's and women's locker rooms, a first aid station, a 154-seat auditorium, and four large con­ference rooms that can be sub­divided into nine rooms. 
The Haggar Fitness Complex is an 8,000-square-foot area for long straightaway end wide free weight and exercise ma­turns which lend themselves to chine activity in which about fast times. There are field 100 persons could work out si­markings for football, lacrosse multaneously. Computers and soccer, and a netting sys­generate individualized exer­tem that can accommodate cise programs and monitor batting cages and practicing performance. golfers. It is used for exercise 

Meyo field is a 100-yard. and recreation by students, Astroturf field, surrounded by faculty and staff as well as by a six-lane track, one-fifth of a varsity and club sports teams. mile measured on the inside Other activities include lane. The Mondo Track, a sur­rehabilitation exercise for face used in the Olympics and heart attack victims and ROTC Pan American Games, has a drill. 
-....
..... 

~. 
-


Woman suffocates;' -­
AN TOSTAL -S.O.B. ~ 


troops kill three Arabs 
~ ~ 
~ t 
1 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Troops killed three Arab guerrillas trying to enter Israel from Lebanon on Wednesday and a 70-year-old Palestinian woman was suff­
Sign Ups: 

Where: 3rd Floor LaFortune Armstrong Room 
ocated by tear gas soldiers tossed into her home, accor­ding to army and other reports. 

When: Thursday, April 14 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Two Palestinians were re­ported wounded by gunfire and 

Friday, April 15 3:00 -5:00 p.m. 

51 injured by rubber bullets, tear gas and beatings in a bat­
FOR 

tle between Palestinians and

WEEKLONG EVENTS: 

Israeli soldiers in the Gaza Strip.
Kisser--1 00 men, 100 women 
At least 144 Palestinians have died in the rebellion that 
began Dec. 8 in the occupied

Scavenger Hunt--teams of 3 (unlimited) 
Tuesday, April 19: Golf Tourney--18 teams of 2 each 
Wednesday, April 20: 
1) Airband Competition--15 group limit 

2) Slam Dunk--20 people for 9'3" (unlimited for 1 0') 
Thursday, April 21: Bike Race (unlimited) Saturday, April 23: 
1) Mud pillow fights--12 men 12 women 

2) Mud Wheelbarrow Race--40 teams of 2 

..... ..... Quayle suggested that it "needs to be more relevant in the political process." 





Quayle 
continued from page 1 
hoped ''the next president will pursue SDI" as a means to peace by limiting the threat of offensive weapons through the deployment of defensive weap­
ons. 

Furthermore, Quayle said he has "always been supportive of the Democratic resistance in Nicaragua" because of the threat posed by the intended spread of communism beyond the borders of Nicaragua. He said the way to avoid another 
~ "VietNam" is to "do the right I thing now" by providing aid for the Democratic resistance in Nicaragua. I As for the Indiana primary, 
tour of the building, a luncheon in the Notre Dame Stadium press box prior to the spring Blue-Gold football game, a 
Mass  in  the  facility  and  a  
reception  and  dinner  in the  
Hesburgh Library.  

The building is the latest in an expansion of athletic and recreational facilities at Notre Dame which since 1985 has seen the addition of Rolfs Aquatic Center with its olympic-size pool. 
West Bank and Gaza Strip, ac­cording to U.N. figures. An Is­raeli soldier and a 15-year-old Jewish settler also have been killed. 
Arabs attacked Arab mer­chants who defied Palestine Liberation Organization orders to close, firebombing the shop of a Jerusalem moneychanger and setting stalls ablaze in the Bethlehem produce market, police and witnesses reported. An Arab passerby was re­ported injured by the firebomb. 
Soldiers clashed for a second day in Gaza with Arabs protest­ing the deportation of eight Palestinians to Lebanon on Monday. 
"By the time the Democrats get to Indiana, over 70 percent of the delegates will be selec­ted," said Quayle who would like to see the primary moved foreward. 
Quayle's live speech was the first of its kind at a Notre Dame convention, said Brian McCarthy, press secretary for the convention. McCarthy said the operation required the in­stallation of a special telecon­ference line and the use of a satellite dish. Much of the work in providing Quayle's live speech was done by The Young Republicans organization at Notre Dame, said McCarthy. 
The choice of speakers, ac­cording to McCarthy, was lim­ited to those who were avail­able. "A lot of Senators were asked," said McCarthy, but be­cause of the abundance of work going on in the Senate around Easter, "Quayle was the only one who accepted." 
r-----------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, April 14, 1988
The Observer 

Dukakis: Gore needs the facts 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK, N.Y.­
Democratic presidential can­didate Michael Dukakis said Wednesday that rival Albert Gore "ought to get his facts straight" after Gore touched off a campaign clash about the use of nuclear weapons in Europe. 
President Reagan, his vice president on the campaign trail and talking tough about drugs, stepped into the political arena himself, s~ying politicians don't criticize Jesse Jackson for fear of being labeled racist. 


Delegate 
continued from page 1 
Irving said she is "very inter­ested in politics" and thought the Mock Convention would ex­pose her to the type of atmo­sphere she hopes to partake in the future. She also feels the

Climbing Jacob's ladder 

event promotes political A construction worker gets up into his work in the new chapel in Siegfried awareness. "It's a great idea," 
next to the Hesburgh Library. The new dorms, Knott and Siegfried, are slated to open in September for the fall semester. 



Vote 
continued from page 1 
having a good time," added Smith. 
Cuomo, while not an official Democratic candidate, had support from many delegates. "He's the only person with na­tional appeal," said Marg Clarkson, Ohio delegate. "He's the only person who can beat Bush." Cuomo came in last on the second ballot, only one del­egate behind Jackson. 
Rich Coglianese, leader of the "draft Cuomo" campaign, immediately threw his support to Gore after the loss. "He's the closest in line to Cuomo's policies, and he needs sup­port," said Coglianese during the two-minute speech alloted losing campaign managers. 
After Cuomo's loss, state chairmen and delegates tried to convert Cuomo supporters. Colleen Prentice, Ohio delega­tion chairman and a Cuomo supporter, was immediately surrounded by supporters of other candidates after the an­nouncement of Cuomo's loss. "I'll do what our entire delega­tion wants me to do," Prentice said after the lobbying efforts. 
"Things are changing every minute," said Jackson mock campaign manager John Far­ley. He proved himself right as his third place candidate fell to fourth and out of the race in the 
next roll call. The Cuomo delegates appeared to split be­tween the Dukakis, Simon, and Gore camps, while Jackson ac­tually lost votes. 
Farley asked Jackson sup­porters to vote for Simon after the loss. "Jackson and Simon are the two most liberal candi­dates," said Farley. "They stand for what America needs. It's important to keep psycho­logical unity, and these two candidates agree on a lot of is­sues," he added. 
The fourth ballot saw Gore's campaign lose by 61 delegates to Simon, with Dukakis in front 
by  12  delegates.  Many  
delegates  expected  the  en­ 
dorsement  of  Mary  LaSata,  

Gore's mock campaign manager, to boost Dukakis or Simon to victory. 
LaSata said in her concession speech, however, that "both are excellent candidates. Both have sane policies. I don't want to underhand either cam­paign.'' Although she said later that "most of my delegates probably want Dukakis," LaSata said she could not en­dorse one candidate over the other. The second ballot saw some controversy involving the New York delegation. Conven­tion rules allowed a state to vote all of its delegates on a percentage basis if only some of the state's delegates were present. 
New York delegation chair­man Brian Holst announced his delegation's vote as "41 for Jackson, one for Simon, and one for Gore." Because New York had only seven delegates pres­ent, the Mock Convention com­mittee ruled that each delegate had to take seven votes to make up New York's 49 delegates. 
said I:ving, _b~cause "Not~e Dame ts a pohttcally apathetic campus." 
Deichak, however, said he became involved as a delegate for the experience, knowing he "will never go to a real one." The most important aspect for Deichak is the platform, which was composed entirely by Notre Dame students and gives a "strict reflection of the stu­dents." 
"This is not a Democratic convention," Deichak said, but "a political party for Notre Dame." He said he felt that in creating the platform, "good arguments were given" to in­decisive views on issues. 
As delegatess, many of the students are experiencing a new facet they never knew would be so interesting. "I am now more familiar with the in­tricacies of the convention," said California delegate Bo Balesh, adding the event is "awesome and a great learning process for students." 
Chairman of the New Mexico delegation Phil Lucero said the convention "gives people in­sights into politics" and the 

NOAVEAPTS. 
SPECIAL SUMMER .. RATES AVAILABLE also renting for Fall 
2·Bedrooms completely ~rnished 
CALL 234--6647 
Protected ·by Pinkerton Security Agency 


Pac & Ship 109 Dixieway North STUDENTS 
1Let us send your goods home. We'll supply the boxes, pack and seal them for you! BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE SOc 
·······················-~ 
~~~ i llil Pac & Ship : su<tt 
_0+~0  :  This Coupon Good For  :  8~'oR;~R  
...,c,"-0  :  50c OFF  :  c~:,  
I1:  : I  

.........J---··········----------~--------· 
"I have to believe that a great many of us would find ourselves in great disagree­ment with the policies that he is proposing, and would per­
. haps be more vocal about them, if it wasn't for concern that that'd be misinterpreted into some kind of a racial at­tack," Reagan said. Gore stirred a new foreign policy controversy in the final week of the New York primary campaign after Dukakis told the New York Daily News "we reserve the right to use nuclear force" in the event of a Soviet invasion of Europe "when 
"procedures people don't know about." 
Ohio delegate Lisa Orchen said she enjoys the excitement the event generates. "All your friends are here," said Orchen, making it a "unique event to be involved in." Colleen Pren­tice, chairman of the Ohio 
delegation,  agreed,  saying,  
"it's fun  to  rally  and  carry  
signs."  

utah delegate Ken Bonacci said he is ''not really involved in politics," but is "having a good time." Bonacci said at first he thought the event would be ''a stuffy affair,'' but it has proven "to be a lot of fun." 
Michigan delegate Peter Stenger remarked that a con­vention representing both the Republican and Democratic platforms "would have given an even more interesting per­spective." Stenger, nonethe­less, enjoys the opportunity to "hear others' views and debates in an exciting man-there appears to be no other al­ternative." He added, "I don't think that's going to happen." 
Gore, battling for survival in the three-candidate race for the Democratic presidential 
nomination, quickly jumped on the Massachusetts governor and said he had "made a sig­nificant mistake in saying that he would launch a nuclear strike against the Soviet Union under . . . specific circum­stances." However, Dukakis never used the word "strike." 
At a news conference in Bos­ton, Dukakis said Gore "ought to get his facts straight." 
ner." 
Most of the delegates were disappointed, however, with the low turnout of student par­ticipation. "I wish more stu­dents would have participated since they indicated that they would," said Bill Fitzgerald, 
chairman of the Minnesota delegation. 
Fitzgerald said if "people were forewarned about the re­sponsibilities," they might have been more sincere in their decision to participate. 
Pennsylvania Chairperson Matt Bradley said, "there were a lot less than there should be." The amount of time required might have proved "a bigger committment than was ex­pected," he said. 
utah delegate DeeAnn Boel­beier agreed the event was de­manding on students' time, but added, "It is a good chance for people to get politically in­volved." 

IF YOU ARE GRADUATING MAY 1988••. IF YOU HAVE OBTAINED STUDENT LOANS ••• 
It will be necessary for you to attend (federal regulation) one of two exit interviews: April 19, 1988 7:00 to 9:00 PM 
April 21, 1988 7:00 to 9:00 PM at 
Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 

used BOOKS FRAMES 
P,E;RI 1 0D IGALS 









BAlE 
wednesday and thursday. 
April13·14 10am ·3pm 

O'Shaughnessy Great Hall 
~0 
THE SNITf MUSEUM OF All UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


1---_-----___----=----=----=--=-­
ThU'8day, Ap<U 14, 1988 
Viewp0 int 
page 7 
Jackson 
"What does Jesse Jackson want?" This seemed to be the question that emblazoned virtually every headline across the country. Following the Mic­higan caucuses, however, that question was aptly rephrased to "Can Jesse win?" From the beginning, Jackson simply demanded that his candidacy be afforded the same degree of serious­ness and respect as that of his Demo­cratic and Republican rivals. Now armed with the title of Democratic front-runner, Jackson has ultimately changed the dynamics of American politics. Race is certainly a consider­able factor in the 1988 election; however, the Achilles' heel for Jack­son's campaign will be his controver­sial political background and his lack of traditional government experience. Win or lose, he has demonstrated that America will soon be ready for a black president in the White House. 
Lisa Boykin 
in through the out door 
On Thursday, Apr. 8, I read with great concern Bill Sammon's article en­titled "Jackson demeans Democratic Party." Notwithstanding my personal views regarding Jesse Jackson's presidential campaign, it is evident that Sammon makes several problematic statements about minority group politics and the American dem­ocratic process. 
Sammon comments that Jackson has received "monolithic support from the black community, simply because he is black." This is a gross oversimplifi­cation. To assert that Jackson's success in the black community is derived solely by virtue of his color is to neglect the issues at hand and to debase the integrity of the black electorate. It is evident from Jackson's commanding Michigan victory that his campaign ex­tends beyond the traditional color lines. For example, he garnered 70 percent of the vote in Michigan's "thumb" region which has only two percent blacks. Obviously, Jackson's broad base of support is not necessarily lim­ited to minorities and ethnic, working­class whites for he seems to have at­tracted a plurality of the Democratic electorate. Jesse Jackson's message has such a massive appeal because Ronald Reagan's legacy of "voodoo" economic policy has not only served to triple the national debt and exasperate the plight of the lower class but it has 
Doonesbury 



campaign transcends color 
also clutched at the purse strings of America's working middle class. 
Furthermore, Sammon argues that the Democratic Party should not "al­low Jackson to be a significant power broker" and that "it would be inex­cusable for the Democratic Party to force his kindergarten politics on the entire nation." Sammon even goes so far as to describe Jackson as a "rabble­rouser"--a term I find offensive and in­appropriate. What Sammon fails to per­ceive is that the people have entrusted authority in Jackson with their ballots. His political strength was not given to him by the party--he earned it. There­fore, statements such as "Jackson doesn't deserve the political success he has enjoyed" are moot. With regard to oratory skills, Jackson clearly stands head and shoulders above his Demo­cratic and Republican rivals. I doubt that there is enough caffeine in the world to sustain interest in a Dukakis 
v. Bush campaign. 
Although it has been argued that Jackson's presence has threatened the party's chances for the presidency, I would assert that he has bolstered the party by registering several million new voters which incidently helped the Democrats to regain control over the House. What will ultimately secure the White House for the Democrats, though, is the eventual surfacing of reports detailing the involvement of George Bush and his cronies in the Iran­Scam. 
A common misnomer that Sammon falls prey to is to characterize minority politics as "radical". It is an interest­ing historical note that when formerly oppressed groups in American society have organized to demand the rights that were supposedly guaranteed to them by the Constitution, they were deemed as "radical". One only needs to recollect that Martin Luther King, Jr.'s philosophy of racial equality was hailed as such during the 1960's because it posed a potential threat to the status quo of segregated white America. Jesse Jackson is no more the "bearer of black politics" than Al Gore is the bearer of white politics: Jackson just happens to be the only black in the national politi­cal limelight, and his controversial po­litical undertakings ·should not be viewed as the standard norm for minority politics. 
This country's political and economic climate is ready for a charismatic leader who espouses a more equitable redistribution of economic resources. Whether or not Jackson will be that can-dictate has yet to be determined. However, he has clearly influenced his party's political agenda and has forced this nation to re-examine such issues as economic injustice and the war on drugs. In fact, Jackson's stance on various issues has been incorporated into the Democratic platform. If Jack­1 son legitimately edges out Mike Dukakis with the most popular votes and number of delegates come July, he rightfully deserves a place on the Dem­ocratic ticket as the presidential nominee. The political reality is that we live in a democratic society. The individual with the most votes is the one who wins. To deny Jackson this po­sition in some smoke-filled convention room in Atlanta would destroy the party's unity and ultimately tear at the moral fabric of the United States. 

Although it is too soon to predict the outcome of this presidential race, recent Gallup polls have revealed that if Jackson were to go up against Bush in November, Bush would capture 57 percent of the vote to Jackson's 33 per­cent. If Dukakis were the nominee, the Massachusetts governor would defeat George Bush 49 percent to 45 percent. More surprisingly, though, the polls reveal that if Bush were to face a Dukakis!Jackson ticket, the Democratic party would seize a 48 percent victory over Bush's 43 percent. These figures clearly illustrate that Jackson has res­haped the dynamics of American politics. Although Jackson's name may not appear on the Democratic ticket, he has obviously paved the way for fu­ture minority presidential candidates and has carved out a significant role for the minority and economically dis­advantaged electorate. 
An understanding of the 1988 presidential run for the White House can only be grasped if one has reckoned with the dimensions of minority group politics in this country. To underes­timate the growing power and influence of the minority polity or to apply a dif­ferent set of standards in evaluating minority candidates is to do an injustice to the system and the ideals of the gov­ernment it represents. Jesse Jackson's campaign will be savored for many years to come because, by challenging the system, he has demonstrated that America will soon be ready "to rise up and live out its creed so that one day individuals will be judged on the con­text of their character and not by the color of their skin." 
Lisa Boykin is a senior government and philosophy major and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Garry Trudeau 


"Whenever you are angry, be assured that it is not only a present evil, but that 
you  have  increased  a  
habit."  
Epictetus  

He lA/ANTS CRWIT FOR 8&/NG H/5 0/A/N MAN, BUTH&'5 AFRA!l? OF At/CNJfTING THOSe IUHO VOT& FOR HIM PRU!SUY BUAUS& H&'5 ReAGAN'S MAN/ NO 


Quote of the Day
()J()UW fAJHY, YOU GOT YOU /.JK& ANOTHER. 8/U. 705TeP OF GOOIJS IN 
OUTSIIJ&'Z YOURCAR2 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief............. .. ...... Chris Murphy Business Manager .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. John Ox rider Managing Editor........ .. ..... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ............... Molly Killen News Editor .......... ............................. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ................ linda Goldschmidt News Editor.................... .. Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager... Bernadette Sh11ts Viewpoint Editor............. .. ..... Matt Slaughter Systems Manager. .. ... .. ... .. ..... . .. . Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ............................... ....... Marty Strasen Controller... .. ................................ Todd Hard1man Accent Editor.................. ................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager.... .. .......... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor... . .. Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor.................. .. .... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 
---~-­
---------~ 




Accent

page 8 Thursday, April 14, 1988 
Fencing teams 

M
JIM SEIDEL val at Notre Dame in 1986, accent writer Auriol has led the women to undefeated seasons and an uch of Notre Dame's fen­NCAA Championship, while hel­cing success can be attrib­ping the men achieve similar uted to Yves Auriol, the wo­success. men's head coach and men's State and was a physical edu­assistant coach. Since his arri-cation instructor at Portland 

Oh, those things spring brings! 
MARIA JUKIC accent writer 

l\ h, spring... With the men­"-tion of the word comes images of sunny days, cool breezes, and bodies on the quads of Notre Dame. For the Notre Dame community, which has been imprisoned in the bleak cold of the South Bend winter, spring is an awakening of sorts. New life is everywhere. New leaves on the trees to new attitudes of the students. 
"Spring just makes you hap­pier in general," said one stu­dent. Another added, "I don't mind getting up in the morning as much when the sun is out. I 
just want to be outside." 
And outside is where Notre Dame students flock when the warm weather hits. "Spring seems to affect people in phys­iological ways because of the extended daylight," said Ursula Williams, a language professor. "You are waking up earlier, staying up later, and being more active. The physical activ­ity level is much higher." 
Groups of students abandon dorm rooms and invade the outdoors to practice their own form of sun-worshipping. Sun­bathers offer their very bodies to the whims of the sun. Ath­letes (or pseudo-athletes) defy the heat to shoot hoops, toss a football, or just frolic in the sun. Die-hard joggers thrive in the rejuvenated scenery. 
Leisure activity seems to be the rule, not the exception, for students during the spring. But 
what about school? "Spring makes your attitude on life in general better, but it tends to make your schoolwork worse," said one student. 
Students in spring seem to have so many options besides schoolwork. Their decisions are obvious. "Students are more easily distracted in class when the weather gets nicer," said Williams. "There is more daydreaming and looking out the windows." 
Why is this so? 
"Because spring means it's almost summer, and summer means fun," ,said a student. 
"Spring makes everything seem easier, like there's noth­ing you can't do," added an­other. 
"The sun and nice weather make it hard to be inside and studying. There's so much more to do," said a third. 
Spring tends to put things in perspective. It makes people happier in general. "Everybody has a lovely, whimsical look on their faces," observed Professor Harvey Bender. "Life is once again evident at Notre Dame. There is great promise for the world and the future. All is refreshing and neat." 
It seems to be a general con­census that spring, somehow, changes people's attitudes for the better. A smile appears more often than not, and people seem happier. Life is worth living once again. Wel­come spring! 

guided by expertise of Auriol 
Community College before coming to Notre Dame. He is married, has a ten-year-old son, and enjoys different sports, including tennis and soccer, as hobbies. 
Auriol gives credit to the men's coach Mike DeCicco for this season's great success. According to Auriol, the team's record of 27-1, a second place finish in the NCAA Champion­ship, and the selection of three players as All-Americans, came from, "Notre Dame's fine reputation which attracts solid atheletes year after year." 
In the next month, Auriol will know how next year's recruits look, and he is already optimis­tic. "My favorite part of coach­ing involves watching fencers develop and reach their poten­tial," Auriol said. "I enjoy teaching all three weapons: the sabre, epee, and the foil, and helping the men and women progress." He added that coaching is primarily the same in North America as in Europe, but there is a greater number of experienced fencers over­seas. Auriol sights the two coasts as hot spots for Ameri­can fencing, and notes that in recent years, the Boston area has produced several female standouts. "I never look back at success, though. If you do that too much, you endanger your future. I always look for­

ward to see how I can im­prove," said the coach. The transition that Auriol makes from college coach to 
Auriol has served as coach of the United States Olympic Fen­cing Team for the last ten years, and will be in Seoul for the Games this summer. Auriol has also coached the American entries in the 1978 World Championships, the 1976-79 World Junior Championships, and the the 1977 World Univer­sity Games. 
A native of France, Auriol holds a masters degree from the Institute National duSport in Paris. An all-around athelete, he was a professional rugby player as well as an excellent fencer. "Rugby was always my number one," said Auriol. "but you can't play it forever." Upon moving to the United States in 1972, he settled in Portland, Oregon, and formed the Salle Auriol Fencing Club which pro­vided private instruction to aspiring students. 
According to Auriol, his greatest accomplishment as a coach occurred when four fen­cers were selected by the Olympic team. From 1975 to 1985, Auriol coordinated the fencing program at Portland Olympic coach each year is "not difficult and proves to be ~ most interesting." Though col­legiate fencers are seldom 

MENAGERIE 
entrapped in lives of frustrated ambitions. In the production's beginning, the actors seem somewhat 
W
MARY ANN GRIFFIN rushed and disjointed, but accent writer as they settle into their roles, the action flows ednesday evening smoothly. brought the successful The story line is easy to opening of Tennessee follow. Abandoned by their William's "The Glass husbanMather, the family Menagerie" by the Notre relies upon Tom to provide Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre at for them. Tom resents this O'Laughlin Auditorium. The parasitic situation, and the play, set in the 1930's, un­tensions culminate on the folds the dismal story of a evening when Tom brings mother, her son, and her home a "gentleman caller" crippled daughter, for his sister, Laura. 
The Observei>'Rob Regovich Students perform on opening night of 'The Glass Menagerie'. 

oLder than 22, Olympians may be as old as .35. "There is no set peak age for a fencer," Auriol said. "The new training practices have lengthened the careers of many competitors." Even with the longevity, Auriol admitted that it is difficult for American fencers to excel in the Olympics. "The European nations are still the favorites," he said, "but who knows. One night, one match, anything can happen so I am optimistic." 
As coach of the 1980 Olym­pic team that boycotted the Moscow Games, Auriol remem­bers the disappointment of the atheletes. 'They sent us to China instead," he said, "but it was not the Olympics. The spirit was not there." The Los Angeles Games were different, however, and were made even sweeter by the boycott of 1980. "The spirit in 1984 was so high. The feeling of entering the Coliseum in the opening ceremony was so special, so unique. As we marched around, it seemed as if the whole track was filled by the 
U.S. team. I look forward to this year." 
Notre Dame seems to have good reason to look forward as well. In Auriol, the fencing pro­gram has a gentleman with a prolific record who is loved and admired by player and peer alike. 
As Tom Michael Grant suc­cessfully executes his duties as both narrator and son, the audience undoubtedly captures his internal struggle between fulfilling his dreams and taking care of his family. Claudia Wilson also performs well as the disabled daughter, Laura. Wilson gains the audience's pity as she portrays Laura's immobilizing self­consciousness and timidity. 
Daniel Gore brightens the production with his appear­ance as Jim, the gentleman caller. Most noteworthy, Jane Anne Riedford treats the audience to an outstand­ing performance as the mot­her, Amanda. She dives into her role as a melodramatic woman, whose perceptions are clouded by reminis­cences of and desire for a stable but vigorous, colorful life for her children and her­self. The nuances of Ried­ford's voice and gestures wonderfully mold the charac­ter. 
Despite a few slow mo­ments, the performers es­sentially interact smoothly and naturally on a well­designed set. "The Glass Menagerie" deserves ap­plause as worthwhile enter­tainment. 

Thursday, April 14, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Sports Briefs 
Daimon Sweet, a 6'5" guard from Beaumont, Tx., has signed to play for the Notre Dame basketball team next season. Sweet be­comes the fifth member of this year's Irish recruiting class. -Associated Press 
Bookstore XVII is looking for referees. Anyone interested is asked to attend a meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the Keenan basement. If you can not make the meeting or have any ques­tions, call Jeff at 1551. -The Observer 
The ND Porn Pon squad will hold tryouts for next year's squad beginning on Sunday. The first instructional clinic will be held from 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. on Sunday at the Rockne gym. All NOOMC women interested in being part of t~e squad are en~ouraged to attend. Any ques­tiOns should be directed to Erica Hinkle at 283­2493 or Melissa Howe at 284-5099. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team is looking for someone to help coach the team. Anyone inter­ested who has playing or coaching experience should call Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. -The Observer 

The ND;SMC Equestrian club will hold a year-end meeting and picnic on Sunday at 2 p.m. at Leanne's. To nominate club officers for next year, call Steve Hayes. Call Theresa at x2805 for more information. -The Observer 
:rhe ~nnertube Water Polo tournament IS ta~mg any ~pplications for teams who did ~ot s1gn up durmg the regular registration per­IOd. Call Barb at 289-5920. -The Observer 
Thll o..r-Notre Dame office, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu­dent CenhW,accepta clasalfled edvertlaing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday lhrougtt Friday. Thll ~Saint M.,ys office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for nex1~ clasaifledsls3 p.m. All clasaifleds must
Classifieds be prepU!, either In penson or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live ~per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 "AooPTioN:··i:~~i~~-~~-~~i;:·~h~-~-~~i·~-~ and poychologlol, deeply wloheo lo adopt newborn. Welcoming warm fam~ lly, love, opportunltleal Expenaes paid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect 212-724-7942. p·;~i;~;~;·~-~~;;·ij;~;;:~i~;;;~j~:·;;~~;;~;~:~ w111 buy your books. Call 233·2342 lo make an appointment 10·5:30 7 day&Week Wordproceo1lng-Typing 272-8827 ;:·Ai:.'i.........237:1949········;;o'R.......vo.uii WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. ......... iix·;;e·ii:r·:r;;P"iNo.siiFiiiic"E:···· .... CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 ....M.AciM'Ac·s·;:;:;;[i;:;"Acs·;:;AoMAcs... Look for more PD software, System Software updates, speakers like Guy Kawasaki from AGIUS, and much more .. (Ae)orgamza!1onal meeting coming soon lor next year The ROM Warnor returns LOST/FOUND CORONA KEYCHAIN & KEYS LOST AT SENIOR BAR OR BRIDGET'S I THINK PLEASE CALL PATIY AT 283·2807 IF FOUND!If!l!l BLUE NOTRE DAME WALLET LOST ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE.I LOST MY IDS IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY CLARE AT 283-2758 THANKS! LOST a steelblue (blackish) and gold bead bracelet somewhere between the ROTC and Aerospace and Engineering bu1ld1ngs about two weeks ago. I! was a g11! from my boytnend and has extreme sentimental value. If found PLEASE have a heart and call 283-2660 REWARD. Found: one Marnage and Fam1ly text and one begtnmng Italian text near Juniper and Howard Sis. over Easter break. Call Kathy 277·2944 FOUND--65 Glove&Minens at Losl and Found--Also many Glove and M1Uen Pa~rs: Searls TooII Claim today. 11 o LaFortune Hall FOUND: High School ClaOI Ring (glrl'o) In Rockne Memorial Locker room. Call 2311-6321.  NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 NICE ROOM TO SUBLEASE FOR THE SUMMER JUNE-AUGUST 31 KITCHEN,BATHROOM,LIVING ROOM,TV,ETC $125, CALL 288­7929,VOLKER Great Location near campus. Large brick home. Room for 6 students. 2 baths. Ready for Fall occupancy. $66Gino. plus utilities. 232·2366. Room for 4 students. Near campus. Ready for Fall occupancy. $44Dmo. plus u!llltlaa. 232·2366. 3 BD. HOUSE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS FOR FALL '88. CALL 289-8539. G'FiE;;;:··;;:r·uoio.susi:Er··;i··s;;~~~~~;. wall-lo-wall carpeting, new kitchen. Avail· able May 15. Perlect for grad. student or prof. Quiet location, wllaundry facilities, etc. Call 289·7709. sruDio:O:;;:O:Fil-MEiNl-ruFi-il:EcfiEiEi< $339-MONTH CALL 277-4842 WANTED SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusens Berkshires, WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pian<>j:llay for shows, JUdo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, rad10, video, archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and !ypisl. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad Eastchester, NY 10707 or cali 9141779-9406. PLEASE SELLMEGRADlJATiON TICK­ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$! CALL MARC AT 288-7105 ROOMMATE WANTED Summer only, male to share Campus­view two bedroom, $2001no., Includes air; Call Dorine at 272-1441. Drug uaera not tolerated. Fi'liie...N.eEoE·o··;:c;··;:;·~:;;;:;i··a;;··c;;;io THIS WEEKEND PLEASE CALL KAREN £1312 ROOMMATE(S) NEEDED Senior returning for grad school is looking for roommates for off~campus apartment or house. Call Todd x1788. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . ... . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Can I borrow someone's basketball? Please? See Dean Am. 339 FOR SALE  NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TICKETS. $$$ CALL STEVE 277·8932 Have extra senior formal bid, want to go? Chris-4006 call after 11 p.m. WE NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, CALL KAREN 2879, OR ERIC 232-1399 TODAY I ................................................................ PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. co.iio..aicvi:iii··:roi.i.iis~coi.:oii.Aoo ROCKIES 1966. WHITEWATER RAF· TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. si~;~;;;:···s;,·~~-..~~~;····~-~~~~~~;;···~i~~~ books tor $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week 233·2342 SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE I Apr. 15-17. Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10·5:30 7 days' week. 233·2342 ....................................... ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES 1sl Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey a! 236·2200 ........................................ Bartles Imports BMWMAZDANW All JETIAS a! invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends and interviews Throughout the evening. Have an opinion on The Task Force Reports?? We want you on The Campus Perspectivas talkshow Thursday, April 21 From 10 to 11 p.m. On WVFI·AM 640 Please leave you name and number In the News Director's mailbox In the WVFI office By Tuesday, April 19, 5 p.m. Hey Manor: Whatta ya say we get Ferris' future job back and can Spector's future. THANK YOU ST JUDE KAREN VUONO and JULIE PALAMARO:Pick up any more middle aged bus1nessmen lately? Congra!s to the 5 INEBRIATED LOONS...etc. BEAST, TEAM CAPTAIN MUGSY, HIGH SCORER (3) FLEX, 40% (2 OF 5) DUKE, 9% (2 OF 22) JOE BANANA, SWING MAN CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF $6-$1MiR. Can you make $12,011G'fr. delivering for Domino's Pizza? You bell Now hiring. 1835 South Bend Avenue $3.75ohr with bonus at hire. 277-2151.  JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campus... wA.NrEo:···~~-,;;~i~····P.or!M'Are·:···N~rth Chicago Subs,beginning in Aug. Call Mary Kay. £3023 or 2999 FiooMMAriis .. w:.\r:.i-ieii···;;Q"Fi···ai=i=~ CAMPUS NEXT YEAR ... 2 NEEDED FOR CAMPUS VIEW (spot reserved) or 1 for NO APTS. Call Jim2035 or Kevir>2033. GREAT HUNGER CLEANUP VOLUN~ TEE AS Remember to collect dona!ions.First prize: United Limo ticket, $45 value. Many other prizes. Try to gel at least $30. THANKS SATURDAY, APRIL 16 wai:i·t<-·-iHts-·su.M"MEii:i .. oN .. Hii.:-ioN HEAD IS. WANTED 2 ROOMATES TO SHARE CONDO CALL ANNE 284·4314 t.io.Moveiis i.ieeoeof:oFi t.iEiwsri.i~ DENT ORNIENTATION AT SAINT MARY'S WANTED ALL GUYS INTERESTED IN COMING BACK EARLY TO HELP MOVE IN NEW STUDENTS. CHANCE TO MEET NEW PEOPLE. WILL HAVE TO BE BACK ON WEDNESDAY, AU· GUST 17, 1966. FOR MORE INFORMA­TION CONTACT CATHY BURKE AT 284-5051 AN TOSTAL IS COMING! AN TOSTAL IS COMING I AN TOSTAL IS COMING! AN TOSTAL IS COMING! AN TOSTAL is coming! Bookstore Baskball, !he Mudpils, Stepan picnic Beatie Magic, Domestock, Mud Volley­ball, Club Bill, Canoe Races, Slam Dunk, MPillowfigh!s, !he Irish Wake and much much more! .............................................. Hey Dudes of THE GROOVE I I love your COOL sound a and amazing equipment I sure hope we can work together more often I GIVE ME A CALL ANY TIME (even If you juat need a mover) MJR -sound guy ................................................................ Congratulations Uncle Brian Allan!e How can you handle the suspense? ............................ ~ .... IRISH  NOTRE DAME POM PON SQUAD TRYOUTS: FIRST CLINIC 4117 11·2 ROCK GYM FIRST CUTS 4118 6·9 ACC PIT SECOND CLINIC 4119 8-11 ACC GYM 4 SECOND CUTS 4120 6-9 ACC PIT ALL TRYOUTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. ANYONE INTERESTED IN TRYING OUT IS WELCOME. MORE IN­FO? ERICA 2493 OR MELISSA 284­5099 Found: Two pastel bras hanging In the fourth floor bathroom of Cavanaugh. It they are yours, please come and claim them. We suspect they have great aentlmental value. -Two nice guy1 (ugly man sweat..ugly man sweat . .) Things are gelling UGLY Vote UMOC Vote UMOC Vote UMOC La Fortune Into Booth MON-FAI 7-9 PEAK. ciooD.i.:uci< iN ii:o:,,i,,i ... · THANK YOU ST JUDE Mike P. What a great picture of you in the paper !he other day I What a stud ! Take me to your SYR, you hunk 1111 Se· cret Admirer MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT WATCH MOVIES ON THE QUAD FRIDAY APRIL 15 FREE MOVIES""'FREE MOVIES THIS FRIDAY OUTSIDE ON MOD QUAD HELP CELEBRATE PE.f'W WEEK BE A PART OF THE BEST WEEK ON MOD QUAD JOIN THE PASQUERILLAS' FOR SPIRIT WEEK COME SEE MOVIES 8:30 FRIDAY ON THE QUAD HI! I'M JENNIFER CONLON And I need a date tor this weekend. Give me a call at 2975. Omar ·You are wanted. Can I eal? I don't know, give it a try. CONGRATULATIONS IRISH MARAUDERS DRILL TEAMIIII Way to kick bull and take names a! the Purdue Drill Meet! You worked long and hard for it, and you deserved everything you got! II was about time things went your way~wyou were long overdue, and  THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 FRIDAY 6am to 2pm 6:00 DEADHORSE 6:45 YOUTH IN ASIA 7:30 ELIXER (PURDUE) 8:15 CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 9:05 SGT. FRIDAY (PROFESSIONAL) 10:20 MATERIAL ISSUE (IN WVFI'S TOP TEN) 11:35 the GROOVE 12.45 TOXIC GYPSY (PURDUE) 1:15 ZETO & THE HEAT·ONS ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CYSTIC FIBROSIS FREE ICE CREAM SANDWICHES FOR THE FIRST 200 TO ENTER PLUS PRIZES AND A ROTATING DOOR POLICY OUT OF CONTOL Fiiiai.i.iii:·;;·:rico:·Fii:iz.ANN.iifi·s;;·;;io SIETE MESES ES UN LARGO TIEMPO! JA DAVE GULLOTT DAVE GULLOTT DAVE GULLOTT Hill THANKS!! AND YOU ARE MAN ENOUGH FOR ME ANY DAYIII KNOW SOMEONE SPECIAL? SEND ROSES SPECIALLY PRICED NOW! SUZANNE'S FLORAL 18061 STATE ROAD 23 277-2870 .......... M.o'ii'CiiJ;;i)·;:;aii.t'E·N·iciHr··-...... MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT THIS FRIDAY APRIL 15 MOVIES ON THE MOD QUAD FRIDAY APRIL 15TH COME ONE, COME ALL FREE FREE FREE FREE W';iE"Fie-···w"iiR'E....vou····w;:iiit4....rH'e LIGHTS WENT OUT? AT THE MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHTtll ................................................................ COME TO THE MOD QUAD MOVIE NIGHT HOT SPOT ON CAMPUS -FRIDAY NIGHT YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY HAVE ANYTH· lNG BETIER TO DO iN'riifiiisTiii)..iN'''si.i'ai:.ErnNa..iii=F'~ CtENCY OR 1 BEDROOM APMT. FROM MAY 15 TO AUG 15. WILL PAY $20Q-$300. CALL CATHY AT 2586 .  
LOST· BLUE ID HOLDER WITH CALI­FORNIA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND DETEX LOST ON MARCH 25 AT CHIPS IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X2691 LOST A RED 3-RING BINDER. I left It In room 101 of Hurley loa! Tueaday (45118) after my 1:15 cl111. If you picked It up, ple11e call Angle at 283· 4096. It hal everything from all of my claoaes In It and It Ia vital to my P811· 1ng my flnalalllllllf Thanks help'.lost a brown wallet with initials FJD. contained 10, dnver's liscence, and photos II was lost somewhere between North d1n1ng hall and the Engineering li· brary. Please call Franc1s at 283-1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall if lound REWARDIIIIIII FOR RENT  IBM P()?(T Model 086 1OMb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price Includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239· 7248 weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. i=ofi.sAi.:e; ..:·P~~~-~~-N~~;;~~~-~ki ;;;;;;;~ size 8. Call Jenn at 2975. ' Rnlt Alliance'83-5spd,4dr,air,new ·--~-~~ h&ball,clean,good cond·$190G1:Jest off· Dave3349 rvi>ewfit-ieR.wofio. pfiocessoll· For Sele LOTS of GOODIES lllntereated, please call Amy x1263 wit.;D"iii.i"Fii=EFi··;;aFi..sA'i:E··;;~~~ii~..c-~t wl Mistral Sail 368cm race board Call Ron 287·7736  GINGER AND MARIANNE: OK, OK WE'LL GIVE YOU OUR TIES, BUT PLEASE KEEP YOUR HANDS OFF MY RUBBER CHICKEN. GILLIGAN (AND THE SKIPPER) To the luckiest man: Thanks for every· lhing. I appreciate you being there in good times and bad. Good luck on your test I expect a 4.0 !his semester. Let's rock Senior Formal. I LOVE YOU I From the luckiest woman Can'tattend the Mock Convention? Want to get the scoop? Usten to the WVFI-AM 640 News Team Cover the Mock Con· vention At 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. With In· depth news reporting And commentary by WVFI's "Strictly SpeaMng" political commentators Uve, breaking reports April 30th FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE Jobs $18,4 to $69,891. Immediate openlngat call JOB LINE 1-518-459· 3611 Ext. F 794, 24hr.  SPRING RUNS ' ' ' ' This Saturday at ~.~:~?..:..:.:..:..~:~~.~_P at NVA " RIGHT TO LIFE NEEDS YOU Applications for all officer positions accepted until Friday Pick up, return to TIM MARCHESI-132 KEENAN or KATHLEEN ZASSICK-341 REGINA N, SMC Question~? call 271­0841 ..AniiNrioN..No.AN"i:i.sM"C''ctiic.l<s·· Next time you see a Domer on the Men's Volleyball Team give him a hug and wish him good luck at Bowling Green. :r;;~;;-~;..;;;;·N·o:s;;;c;·~~~i~i··~;;~:;············ Can't find an exciting date? Play the AN TOSTAL Dating Gamel! Pick up aplica!ions in !he An Tostal office, 3·5 ThurS'Fri. Coming soon.. Gidget Goes To Chicago and stays with a VERMIN!  couldn't be happier tor you! I just wanted to say I'm proud of you I You'll never know how much I would rather have been with you at the meet than where I was that week-end. GREAT JOB! Kevin "ceL:esrii.FFieiNo······.. ········ Is TWENTY-TUTII-ONE todayll Mallhew Scanlon: Happy B-day to the best STUD and brother aroundlll You made my frosh year so much easier. .. Love ya lois!! I little sister Sue Dear Nini and Staph, Instead -~t"ij~~.;~ you get a personal! Thanks for Friday night. I hope we didn't yawn too much because we really had fun. Love, J & M CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO CEDRIC FIGARO FOR UMOC  Are you lamlltar with the term ROADKILL? nan sauer for UMOC ... ................................................. To everyone who called, visited, sent TVs, roses, etc. while I had chicken pox, THANKS A MILLION! I luv ya'll, JULIE. . . ......... ····································· .. DO YOU LISTEN TO SUNNY 101 LUNCHTIME GOLD? If you would like to have Jack Reichert broadcao! live from !he Fleldhouae Mall before the end of April, call him at 236-1015 and tell hlmlll p·;i~-~~·c;l;~;;;;;~g··-y~~-;;~~·i·h;~;·i~·;;;;~g my smile back if you don'! want to. Jusl seeing you does !hal' ··Cinderella P S. Why not on the side?  
2 BEDROOM 2 BATH APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB·LEASE, NEW COMPLEX,POOL $500 FURNISHED CALL 271 0764 EVENINGS. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ..... . . . . . 2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288·0955 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 288-095!>255·3684 Summer Rental; 2 Bd.; $172tno. per per­son: Located al Ironwood and Edison: call 271-0559. 7 BEDROOM FURNISHED HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYS. TEM.SUMMER OR FALL 272-6306  ······································ ··················· 81 VOLKSWAGEN SCIROCO 5 SPEED STICK,SUN ROOF,STEREO,NEW TIRES & PAD,96000 MILES EXCEL· LENT CONDITION, S 2150, CALL JIN 272)8538 TICKETS I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN I DESPERATELY NEED 6 GRADUA­TION TICKETS! I WILL PAY BIG $$ FOR THEM. CALL TIM 4000 IF YOU HAVE EXTRA TICKETS.  COKE IS IT FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, size 8. Call Jenn a! 2975. SEMNIOR FORMAL TICKET FOR SALE 4 My date was killed by terrorists, so he can't go... Will take Best Offer, Call Diane 271-0205 SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLER PO 665 NO IN THANK YOU ST. JUDE, FOR ANSWERING MY PRAYERS.  Interested in reffing BOOKSTORE? Meet in Keenan Basement Thurs. at 8PM Questions-Jeff x1551 KATHLEEN BOCK is !he spe~ial girl ~j the day. Happy 221 THE GRIND .THE GRiND WED:i3~ CENTCANSMON-18-BAIDGETTES· ES·CLOSE...SOCENTOIG DRAFTS ................................................................ The Great Escape of '88 will have to end a! 2 am due to a misun­derstanding with the office of student ac­tivities. We regret the inconvenience.  HE'S REALLY UGLY, GUYSII NOOMC EQUESTRIAN TEAM-OFF TO A GREAT START. CONGRATS PAUL KELLY! GOOD LUCK SATURDAY! open ultimate frisbee saturday noon step~ han To whoever stole the red backpack from outside the third floor welghtroom at the Rock Wed a.m.: You can keep the money. Please jus! give everything elae to someone who can get II beck to me. Thoae things are very Important 349 Morrlaaey Call and lind oui-FROM ONE OF THE FEW GIRLS IN ENGINEERING  KISSER IS HERE! KISSER IS HERE! KISSER IS HERE! Object of lhe game: to obtain the most 'kissing oontracts' Strategy: k1ss your op· ponents before they k1ss you! Pnzes lor mosl 'strategic' KISSERSIII Sign ups Thurs. 7-9 and Fn. 3·5 in the An Tostal Office. STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER at STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Loweo! rate. 24 hour electronic pro!ec· lion. Call 654-3636. Just in case you missed the announce~ ment on Monday, Sco!l Bearby 11 en· gaged!. Be sure to congratulate htm if you see _hi_ml__ _  ....  


page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1988 

Lyle seeks 3rd straight win 
correction 
Junior attackman John Olmstead maneuvers against Lake Forest In Wednesday night's 11-7 Irish win. Olmstead leads the Irish In scoring with 
28 goals and 15 assists. Pete Lafleur has the detail of Notre Dame's ninth victory on page 16. 



Former pitcher has no regrets 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif.­
J.R. Richard, one of baseball's most respected and feared pitchers until a stroke at age 30 ended his career, harbors neither bitterness nor regret over what happened. 
"Everything has worked out for the best, that was the plan God had for me," said Richard, whose story will be the subject of a movie. "The main thing is I'm healthy and doing fine. I'm very content. " 
A lot of people thought Rich­ard was healthy and doing fine while pitching for the Houston Astros in the summer of 1980. But the 6-9 right-hander wasn't, and he knew it. 
"I knew I didn't feel right," he said. "Pitching against the Cubs in the middle of June, my arm started hurting in the third inning. The doctor with the team didn't diagnose the prob­lem, he put ice on my arm." 
Things got worse, even though he was the starting pitcher for the National League in the All-Star Game on July 8, where two scoreless innings earned him a victory in his only All-Star appearance. 
Richard was examined several times, and an ar­teriogram revealed an arterial blockage in his right arm on July 25, but the neck arteries were said to be normal and no surgery was recommended. 
"I went to the hospital, I was diagnosed as a head case," he recalled. Some people also called him a malingerer, despite his record. 
In 1976, Richard was 20-15 with a 2.75 earned run average and 214 strikeouts. In 1977, he was 18-12 with a 2.97 ERA and 214 strikeouts. In 1978, he was 18-11 with a 3.11 ERA and a big­league leading 303 strikeouts. And in 1979, he was 18-13 with a 2.71 ERA and, again, a big­league leading 313 strikeouts. 
On July 30, 1980, he was 10-4 with a 1.89 ERA with 119 strikeouts in 114 innings. 
That was the date it hap­pened. 
"I was on the field, tossing balls back and forth. All of a sudden, I felt a loud ringing in my left ear. I just laid down on the (Astrodome) floor. I re­member the ambulance com­ing to pick me up. Then I passed out," Richard said. 
He had suffered a stroke, caused, he said, by a blood clot. 
Associated Press 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, 
S.C. -Greg Norman once referred to the newly-crowned Masters champion, an easy­going and low key man, as "Sleepy Sandy." 
~'01' Sleepy Sandy has the po­tential to accomplish almost anything he wants," Norman said after Lyle won the 1985 British Open. 
"I think I have the sleep out of my eyes now," Lyle said on the eve of his quest of a rare, third consecutive victory, in the $700,000 Heritage Classic. 
And, with eyes wide open, Lyle likes what he sees in a review of recent action. 
Last week, the husky Scot be­came the first British subject qualified to wear the green 

Fans 
continued from page 16 

He doesn't know the score but does know that the Seahawks convert 41 percent of fourth­and-five situations in away games. He can't tell you who is on top in the AL East, but he does know Mike Pagliarulo is hitting .244 with two out and runners in scoring position in the last three innings of a game. 
Stat Man keeps the Elias Baseball Analyst on his qesk and subscribes only to l!JSA Today. He is the annoying per­~on who buys the baseball scorecard for a quarter and ac­tually keeps score--throughout the entire game. 
At the stadium on that Satur­day afternoon, you will be forced to listen to one of these types. And one of them will be forced to listen to you. Maybe stadiums should assign seating by the type of fan and keep everyone happy, especially all the irrational, irresponsible monsters that normal people transform into at the start of the game. 
jacket of a Masters champion. His triumph at Augusta, Ga., was his third of the season and made him the first man in three years to win consecutive titles on the American tour. 
"I don't think I can play much better than I have in the last few weeks," Lyle said. 
This week, he is attempting to become the first man since Gary Player in 1978 to win three in a row. 

The Observer incorrectly The first meeting of room­reported yesterday that mates occurred in the first Sean Brown and Joe Mas­round when Michael Paul sman were the first room­and Chris Fillio of Jolly mates to play against each Green Giant and the Four other in Bookstore Basket­Sprouts took on Dan Fahey ball this year. of Still Spank and the 
Monkeys. 

GRAHAM  
Sun., April 24  CHAPMAN  O'Laughlin  
7 30 p m  Auditorium  
Samt Mary·s College  
T1ckets Now on Sale  

0 Laughlin Au<l110r1um Box Qf!,ce r,cl<el Slut>. LaFortune Hall Notre Dame Century Center Box Qf!,ce 
All Seats Reserved '101'5 Students 
V1S8 MasterCard Orders andlnlormal,on 284·4626 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. 
Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting 
and it may be your last opportunity to grad­
uate with an Army Officer's commission. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARnST COWCi_E COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Scholarships this Summer 
W rrick 239-6264 
And, depending on his schedule for the rest of the season, he has a couple of major accomplishments within reach. 
He leads with $591,821 in earnings and has a shot at be­coming the first man to win $1 million in a single season on the American tour. 
In addiion, he is by a wide margin the leader in the Player of the Year standin s. 


open 12-6 Serving all you can eat Hot Dogs and Chili Dogs only $2.00!! so eat, relax, and e'1ioy 


Thursday, April 14, 1988 The Observer page 11 

And the beat goes on 
Book•tore Tournement Bookstore 10 Stepan 5 Malicious Prosecution over L1ons of the tribe of 4:00 -Kinkoids vs. Plugs Players Wedneadoy'o Rasullo Judah by 13 4:45 -Air Daggers vs. D3T2 Stepan 1 The Tors over LSP by 2 5:30 -Yo...What Up? vs. 5 Guys Who Sing 
5 Slamma Jammas over Fire D•gger by 8 Top Guns over The L1n8backer Lingerie Show 6: t5 No Blood, No Foul vs. Lou's 2 OB's Who's Next vs Sly & the Fam1ty Stone by t 2 by 8 Stepan 6 Butch & the Boxcars over IKE by 16 Tookey Masters over Several Spec1es of... by 4:00 -Tile MBA's vs. The Skirts 
M•nahoon~es over Look Who Bought the Myth 8 4:45-Johnny Wad's Last Shot vs. Kiss of Death by 6 Lyons 11 Tongue •• 
Stepan 2 Return of the Fugitive Guys over 5 Guys Who 5:30-Hans. Frans, and 3 other vs. 5 Guys With Ceneored over The Watus1 by 9 Follow Tnangle ... by t3 A Surburban Pul the Power over 01sgruntled Rastafanans J1mmy Swaggart, J1m Bekker & 3 other .. over 6:t5 -Rich, Dan, and 3 Other vs. Red Death 
by 14 Double Hems by 8 and the Jammin Provost SCB Club over The Maccabees by 9 Somfaw's Return over Fat's Runnin Bookstore 9 Men on Men over A Pilot & 4 Guys 25 to 22 Somtaw's Return over Fat's Runmn' OHers by 4:00 -Hahn's Funeral Home vs. 3 B1mbos and 
Slepon 5 5 the Horses Do you Know Anythmg over Look tor Us... by Lyons 12 4:45 -Stony Island Ave. vs. Emotionally Ex­9 Orange Blossom Special over We're PathetiC hausted.. 
The Team That Couldn't Think over Bayliss' so you... by t5 5:30 -All the Presidents Men II vs. 6 Guys that 
Boys by 5 5 Guys and no Girls: the ND ... over The Mic­Can't Add Put 11 1n the Hole ovm 4 Men & a Red Headed higan Connection by 1t 6:15 -La Carne Caliente vs. Ferrence & 4 by t2 Les MIS and the Return of the Smurts over Jolly Other .. Bookstore 10 
4 Brothers & a Sweet J over Dan Jansen, Deb1 Green Giant by 5 
4:00 -Murph & the Magic Tones vs. The new Thomas by 9 DB's Pub over The 4 Horsemen... by 8 
tumbleweeds 
Stepon 6 4:45 -AF ROTC ... vs. Tequila White LightningUncle Fester & the Ch1ets over Shaggy & the Thursday's Games 5:30 -Debi Gibson vs. Surf's UpMystery Machine by 7 Stepan t 6:15-Dantley, Lem1evix ... vs. 5 Guys Who Can 

Whubus & h1s 4 Fnends over Bla1r's Cous1n by 4:00-M1nd the Gap vs The Explosive Package L1ck... Lyons 118 and Boomer 
4:00 -SOS vs. Still Friends of Chris Nana1The Grounds Keepers over Kemsey L1kes L1Hie 4:45 -Check the Ice vs. LA Law 4:45 -Tank & the Fun Boys vs. Bo1nhersBoys by 8 5:30 -D1gger Phelps: A season... vs. We B 5:30-A Bad Dude. A Cool Buu... vs. Met theThe M1n1sters of Pa1n over We Don't Need a 

Bricklayers Serna
Center 29 to 27 6:15 -Man In a Canoe Overboard vs. Wally 6:t5 -Adwork's All-Stars vs. Off the GlassCarver H1gh over Dukes ot Slam by 8 and Julie... Lyons 12Bookatore 9 Stepan 2 4:00 -Spidey's Netters vs. The CitizensTofus· Last G1g over Long on the Yen by 10 4:00-A Sm1c Chick, A Doormat vs. Son of 2t1 4:45 -Swaggart, Reagan & 3 Other Guys ... vs.
Corporate Ra1ders over Kernels by 6 4:45 -Conjunction Junction vs. Pop a Shot Dogged by the Steering Comm...
Brace Yourselves over Reverse Peristalso by 
5:30 -Hard1es House Tiki vs. I'll Play, No I 5:30 -Red Red Wine vs. Forfeitt6 Won't 6:15 -Yikes, I'm SiHing in my... vs. Larvae·
Ch1p's Ba1 over Flipper and the Undertows by 6:15-Michael, CooiJ .. vs. Pump up the Volume Boon or Banet6 
Spring runs set for weekend 
spring weather, and I think that The scenic Irish Spring Runs 
By JOHN GREEN join the team late next week. Sly and The Family Stone, 21-9,
there is a lot of enthusiasm on will begin west of Stepan Cen­
Sports Writer Corporate Raiders, who 4 Brothers and A Sweet J 
campus for the Spring Runs," ter at 11 a.m. on Saturday, and reached the Final Eight last slipped by Dan Jansen, Debi One of the traditional Notre said Haney. the course will include a trek year before losing to eventual Thomas and 3 Other People
Dame rites of spring will be on The race is divided into two along the golf course and by the champion 'Da Brothers of Man­Who Fell Under Pressure, 21­display this Saturday with the categories--a three-mile race lakes. Participants can pay a 
hood in the quarterfinals, ad­12, The Groundskeepers buried running of the NVA-sponsored and a six-mile race. Trophies $4.00 registration fee at the vanced with a hard-fought 21-15 Kernsey Likes Little Boys, 21­Irish Spring Runs. will be awarded to the top two NVA offices until Friday, or win over Kernels. The Kernels 13 and Carver High sliced upOver 150 Domers partici­male and the top two female $5.00 at the race on the day of kept put an early scare into the the Dukes of Slam, 21-13. 
pated in the Spring Runs last finishers in the undergraduate, the event. year, and NVA manager Mat­graduate and faculty-staff divi­thew Haney expects an even sions in both the three and six 

Belles break losing streak
bigger turnout this year. mile races, for a total of 24 "We have had some beautiful trophies to be distributed in all. 

ND'61

ironwood wine and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors (219) 272-7144 
1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
SATURDAY 11 AM. 
THE 
Raiders by erasing a 6-1 deficit



Tofu 
with four straight hoops. After Peter Witte of the Kernels hit 
continued from page 16 
a 18-footer to make the score 
"Four of us have played to­6-5, Corporate Raiders raced to gether all four years," said an 11-6 halftime lead and even­ZadeH, "so we pretty much tual six-point win. Michael know what the other guys are Smith, who left the Irish bas­doing on the court. We didn't ketball team this season after play so well in the last round not following prescribed knee but today it all seemed to click. rehabiliation procedures, led We've got a shot at it all, but all scorers with seven points. right now we're just looking at Butch and the Boxcars used Malicious Prosecution, who we a balanced scoring attack to play Monday. Their five tough hike IKE out of the tourna­players and we can't look past ment, 21-4. Greg Thomas paced them." the scoring with 6-of-7 shooting 
Malicious Prosecution was as the Boxcars broke open the led by Joe Sternberg's five fast break in the second half to points as they set up Monday's put the game out of reach. game against Tofu with a 21-8 slaying of Lions of the Tribe of John Sheehan led Put It In Judah. The Hole with ten pints in their 
Mike Osborne scored seven 21-9 scalping of 4 Men and A points for Top Guns in their 21-Red-Headed Stepchild while 13 unveiling of the Linebacker Uncle Fester and The Chiefs Lingerie Show. Top Guns is shaved Shaggy and the Mys­made up of four law school stu­tery Machine, 21-14. Chip's Bar dents and Tim Crawford, a tossed Flipper and the Under­member of last year's New Or­toads with a 21-5 win, and Or­der team which reached the ange Blossom Special reas­Final Eight. Former Irish bas­sured We're Pathetic So You ketball captain Tom Sluby, who Better Not Lose, 21-6. played with the Dallas Mavericks and served as a In other action, 5 Slamma graduate assistant to Coach Jamma ousted Fire Digger, 21­
Digger Phelps this winter, will 13, Who's Next advanced past 
By HEATHER ATKINSON will be long. All but one of our put the Belles at a considerable Sports Writer starting line up were back for disadvantage and put a lot of this game which made a consi­pressure on players who had The Saint Mary's tennis team derable difference." not gotten much playing time 
bounced back from a tempo­On March 30 the Belles were so far this year. rary losing streak Tuesday, 
defeated by Hope College 6-3, "I didn't doubt their level of taking a tough road match but pulled together to win a playing ability, but the experi­from Illinois-Chicago Tuesday. close 5-4 contest over ence level of the girls was low," 
The duo of Sarah Mayer and Kalamazoo College on March said Head Coach Deb Laverie. 
Mary Turk turned in outstand­31. 

Coming out of the tourney 0-3,
ing performances again com­The weekend of April 8-9 Saint Mary's lost close ing from begind to win. Down Saint Mary's suffered some matches. The Belles were 5-0 in the first set they rallied bad losses in tournament com­defeated by Transylvania 5-4, to defeat their oppenents 7-6, petition held in Evansville. The Western Kentucky 5-4 and 
6-2. 

Belles, Evansville, Western Evansville 6-3. "These were pretty routine Kentucky and Transylvania "I was extremely pleased
matches with everyone win­University were the four teams with the showing of the girlsning very handily," said involved in the contest. who traveled and with the way Laverie, "This one got us Because of injuries, three of that they played," said 
turned around on a positive the top six players were unable Laverie. track for this weekend which to play for Saint Mary's. This Mayer, a freshman, had one 

Meet the only guy who changes his identity -;;;;:::::--....,.,. more often than his underwear. 
CHEVY CHASE









n-•· 
Free Admission 
IRISH 
Playing Thursday night at Theodore's -9:30 p.m. 
of the most outstanding perfor­mances of the weekend. Mayer won all three of her singles matches with a great com­eback in the third set of her third game. Down 5-0 in the third she come back to win the match 6-4, 6-1, 7-5. 
Mayer teamed up with Turk for the number two doubles team defeating Evansville, a former conference champion, 7-5, 6-4. 
Three girls, who turned in acknowledgable performances were Michelle Chaney, Mary Kate Coyle and Teri Pattillo. 
"We put some girls into the line up who had practically no playing experience and they really came through in a bind,'' said Laverie. 

SPONSORED 
BY NVA 



SPRING RUNS 
~~~~~~~~~ 

-
r-----­
1 
I I I 
I 
I 
I Baseball roundup
I I 

Yankees keep rolling
page 12 The Observer

I  
I  
I I I  Associated Press  Mel Hall followed with an RBI single and Brook Jacoby  Horner was 4-for-4 in the Car­dinals' 7-5 victory over Chicago  
I  TORONTO -Richard Dotson  hit  a  two-run double but was  Tuesday  night  and  bad  
I I I I I  pitched four-hit ball for eight­plus innings and Dave Win­field's RBI single keyed a five­run first inning Wednesday  out trying for a triple. Jeff Dedmon pitched 2 2-3 scoreless innings for the vic­tory. Juan Berenguer, 0-2, who  received an intentional walk with two outs and a man on second in the first inning. Danny Cox, 1-1 , scattered  
I  night, leading the New York  relieved Bert Blyleven to start  eight hits over eight innings for  
I  Yankees over the Toronto Blue  the eighth with a 3-2 lead, took  the victory. Todd Worrell got  
Jays 5-l.  the loss.  the final two outs in relief of  
f I I  Dotson, 2-0, took a two-hitter into the ninth inning but left after yielding a pair of leadoff  Royals 9, Orioles 3  Steve Peters for his third save. Giants 5, Reds 4  
I  singles. Reliever Dave Righetti  BALTIMORE -Danny  Tar­ 
I  finished,  allowing  an  RBI  tabull drove in four runs with  SAN  FRANCISCO -Will  
single to pinch-hitter Pat Bor­ a pair of doubles and a pair of  Clark's solo home run with two  
ders.  singles  as  the  Kansas  City  outs in the bottom of the 11th  
Rickey  Henderson  opened  Royals  extended  Baltimore's  inning gave San Francisco a 5-4  
the game with a single against  season-opening losing streak to  victory  over  the  Cincinnati  
Dave  Stieb,  0-2,  and  stole  eight games by defeating the  Reds Wednesday and snapped  
second.  Willie  Randolph  fol­ Orioles 9-3 Wednesday night.  the Giants' three-game losing  
lowed with  a  bunt single and  streak.  
Mike Pagliarulo hit a one-out,  Red Sox 6, Brewers 3  
RBI double. Claudell Washing­ 
ton then beat out a squeeze bunt  BOSTON -Ellis  Burks beat  Astros 4, Braves 0  
for another run.  out  a  bunt  to  keep  Boston's  
Winfield,  Don  Slaught  and  four-run fifth inning alive, then  
Bobby  Meacham  hit  run­ hit  a  two-run  homer  in  the  ATLANTA-Jim  Deshaies,  
scoring singles. Winfield is 15­ eighth as the Red Sox beat Mil­ who had shoulder surgery last  
for-29 this season.  waukee 6-3 Wednesday for the  October, pitched  a  two-hitter  
Brewers' fifth straight loss.  and Alan Ashby hit a home run  
Indians 6, Twins 3  Cards 4, Cubs 3  as the Houston Astros beat At­lanta 4-0 Wednesday to send the  
winless Braves to their eighth 
CLEVELAND -Ron Kittle hit a two-run homer and had an  ST. LOUIS-Bob Horner hit a bases-loaded sacrifice fly to  straight defeat. Atlanta is one loss shy of the  
RBI single that sparked a four­ the  warning  track  in  the  National League modern mark  
run rally in the eighth inning  seventh inning to give the St.  of nine from the start of the  
Wednesday  night  as  the  Louis Cardinals  a  4-3 victory  season shared by four teams.  
Cleveland  Indians  beat  the  over the Chicago Cubs Wednes­ All eight Atlanta losses have  
Minnesota Twins 6-3.  day.  been at home.  


Ex-Bear Payton involved in shooting; one injured 
Associated Press and had five left after the single The Bears' No. 34, nick­He joined the Bears as a first­shot was fired. named "Sweetness," retired round draft choice out of Jack­SCHAUMBURG, Ill.-The weapon had been at the from pro football in January son State in 1975. 
Former Chicago Bears run­restaurant for several days, Al­after 13 years and after ac­Payton and his wife, Connie, ning back Walter Payton was ley said, adding he didn't know cumulating 16,726 yards. live in west suburban Bar­involved in the accidental why. He said Payton was Last year Payton, one of the rington with their two shooting of the manager of taking the gun home. most financially successful pro children-a son, Jarrett, and a Payton's suburban Chicago The gun was an older model football players, announced he daughter, Brittney. 
restaurant Wednesday, police that Payton had bought recent­
+ 
.Anlerican 
Red Cross 
Be a volumccr. 
hopes to become principal ....--------------------......,
said. ly, but Alley said he was uncer­owner of an NFL franchise. He The victim, identified as El: tain whether it was an antique. held exploratory talks with mer Hutson, was shot about 3 Police planned to have the gun NFL commissioner Pete 
p.m. when a third man handed tested at Payton's request to Rozelle, who said many owners the gun to Payton, 33, and the determine whether it malfunc­would "love to see a former 
The Center of Social Concerns 
weapon discharged, Schaum­tioned and how, the chief great player own a franchise.'' 
presents:
burg Police Chief Kenneth Al­added. Both played down the timing ley said at a news conference. The shooting occurred in the of the pitch, made during a 
Payton was questioned and restaurant's office, Alley said. push for more minorities in the released and no charges are ex­An ambulance was called to the upper levels in sports. Paytonpected, Alley said. Police also restaurant at 3:13 p.m. said said he raised the possibility
questioned Payton's wife Schaumberg Fire Capt. John before, "but people didn't take Connie and four other Fields. . me seriously." 


Thursday, April 14th 
employees who all "cor­Payton, who retired from the Payton, born in Columbia, roborate the same story," the Bears at the end of the past Miss., started high school in a chief said. season as the leading rusher in segregated school system,The third man involved was National Football League his­shifting to Columbia High when not identified. tory, is a part owner of it was integrated. He didn't "Walter was on the telephone Studebaker's, according to take up football until the 11th 
Aldon &Betsy Bell
sitting beside the desk," Alley WMAQ-TV. grade.said, "and placed the telephone back on the receiver and turned back, and the gun went off striking Mr. Hutson in the left 
THE 1989 DOME 
"People to People." A multi-media 
leg just below the knee." 
is now accepting applications for the following
Hutson, 28, of Hoffman Es­


presentation about 31 citizens of 
positions:

tates was taken from 

Seattle, WA who traveled to Seattle's
Studebaker's restaurant to 
Academics Editor Sports Editor
Northwest Community Hospi­

sister city in the Soviet Union to deliver 
Assistant Academics Editor Assistant Sports Editor
tal in Arlington Heights where 

a message of peace: 42,000
he was in stable condition, said Gail Hillery, nursing super­

signatures from the people of the 
Copy Editor Extracurricular Editor 
visor. 
Assistant Copy Editor Assistant Extracurricular Editor 
Puget Sound region on 3,000 letters 
"The patient is not in a life­


pledging to work to prevent nuclear 
threatening situation," she 
Events Editor Business Manager 
said. 
Assistant Events Editor 


war. 
Payton has an unlisted tele­

Photographers 
phone number and could not be 
Assistant Hall Life Editor 

reached immediately for com­
ment. 
Assistant Seniors Editor 

7:30P.M.
The gun, a French-made, 

9mm semiautomatic pistol, 

at the

Applications can be picked up in the Office of Student Activities on
was registered to Payton, who 
the 3rd floor of LaFortune. They must be returned no later than
had the proper owner­
Center for Social Concerns 
12:00 p.m. on Monday, April 18.
identification and regiSifation, 
Alley said. Police didn't know 
why the gun was loaded, but Alley said it held eight rounds 
-

r-------------~--­
Thursday, April 14, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
ND golf team ·-.... ::-:--=-... :: ..
.. ...... .... ---......... ........:..·:.
....."11(---·-­
~ ,.. .._... ,_ --.._, ~­



looks to Kepler 
_t,..· -----......... .._ 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team will travel this weekend to the land of the legendary Golden Bear in an attempt to stake its claim as one of the up and com­ing schools in the Midwest. After an excellent finish at the Purdue Spring Invitational, the Irish golfers will seek to con­tinue their hot play. 
The Kepler Intercollegiate is a 54-hole tournament held an­nually at the Scarlet Course in Columbus, Ohio. The host and favored team from Ohio State will feature Gary Nicklaus, son of the legendary Jack Nicklaus. The elder Nicklaus also atten­ded OSU and helped design the Scarlet Course, which is con­sidered one of the best col­legiate courses in the Midwest. 
"Over the years, we've had some success there," said Irish head coach Noel O'Sullivan, "but generally speaking it's been our nemesis. Year after year we have one or two mag­nificent rounds, but very sel­dom three magnificent rounds." 
However, this could be the year for the Irish to break that jinx. Junior Pat Mohan cur­rently leads the Irish with a 75.9 stroke average. Senior captain Dick Connelly is providing the necessary leadership and boasts past success at the Kepler. Last year Connelly finished 15th out of a field of 120 with a final score of 229, including best score for the third and final round at 72. Con­nelly presently has a 77.5 stroke average. 
"This year, I feel that it may be the right time for a change," said O'Sullivan. "I am looking forward, as is the te!lm, to three consistent rounds. Along with the success of Dick Con­nelly, both Doug Giorgio and Pat Mohan are coming along like gangbusters." 
The starting five for the Irish Gold Squad will be rounded out with freshmen Paul Nolta, who also finished highly at Pudue, and Pat Kusek, a four-letter man out of Longmont, Colo. 
The Irish team is a relatively young one and has served to provide a unique cohesiveness for the players. Coach O'Sullivan has experimented with several variations in his starting team. Sophomore Bobby Kloska has also proven his abi1ity to play on the col­legiate level. The Elkhart na­tive comes off an excellent freshman year and is presently vying for a chance to prove himself as a member of the Gold Squad. 
"We're feeling good," stated O'Sullivan. "We have quiet op­timism. It's more than just hope, but it's not over­confidence. The team is glad to be under a little pressure. We're shooting for high place­ment as well as a proud perfor­mance in the tournament. We have the youth, experience, desire and attitude. All we have to do now is to go out and do it." 
The competition for the tournament will include teams from the Big Ten and Mid American Conference, as well as all the major independents. The top contenders will be Ohio State, Illinois and Kent State. The team from Ball State will be expected to surprise every­one once again, as they consis­tently have. "The Ball State team will come out firing, with their flashy red plaid pants and all that." 
MOCK CONVENTION 
TONIGHT 

Fin a I Night 
VICE PRESIDENTIAL n o m i n a t i o n s/ & b a Ilo t i Hg'i:i} 



ACCEPTANCE SPEECH By ---
PRESIDENTIAl-A NOMINEE 
ADWORKS 
.. ......_.
~..-.... 
The 

Bruce 'Tiger' McCourt and the rest of the Irish the U.S. Olympic Committee In the state of In-soccer team will be In action Thursday when they diana. Pete Gegen previews the game In his story compete In the Golden Boot match against In­below. diana. Proceeds from the game will go toward 





ND, IU get rematch 
Teams to meet in 'Golden Boot' charity scrimmage 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS-Thanks to a certain soccer match last fall and a group of promoters' ac­tions this spring, tonight's Notre Dame-Indiana soccer scrimmage has turned into more than just a scrimmage. 
It is being touted as the Golden Boot soccer match, a game pitting state rivals in a charity match for the U.S. Olympic Comittee in the state of Indiana. 
The organizers couldn't have picked a better time to benefit 
Luggage Truck Service 
To New Jersey 
New Jersey Club 
Loading Times Stepan Courts ....... Thurs 5-S 6-7 pm Bookstore ........... Frl Sti 10-12 pm Stepan Courts ....... Frl Sti 1-3 pm St. Mary's ....... Frl Sti 4:30-5:30 pm 
Unloading at Morris Plains and Lincroft (CBA) Sunday S-8 Question? Call x4073 ir x4076 
from this rivalry. 
Indiana is still smarting from its 4-3 overtime upset loss at Notre Dame in the fall. It marked only the third time in 15 years a team has scored four goals against the Hoosiers, and the Irish did it a man short, coming from behind twice. 
Mter that game Indiana won 16 straight and claimed the top ranking in the coaches poll un­til eventual national champion Clemson beat IU in the tourn­ament. Despite the team's suc­cess, time has not healed the wound inflicted by the Irish. 
"We'll be playing to win," 
said Yeagely of the scrim­
mage. "We haven't forgotten 
that loss." 
The revenge factor alone is 
worth the $5 admission price at 
IUPU-Indianapolis track and 
field stadium. 
"Thi.s is a big game for In­
diana," says Irish head coach 
Dennis Grace. "Yeagely knows 
our recruiting was helped by 
the IU win." 
Let's not forget this match is 
just a scrimmage, and both 
teams are trying to evaluate 
talent for the coming fall 
season. 
"We're going to do what's 
best for Notre Dame soccer," 
said Head Coach Dennis Grace. 
"We're going to play new 
people and try new things. I 
don't want to get blown out 5-0, 
but there are some things we 
have to accomplish." 
For this scrimmage Notre 
Dame's 18-man roster will be 
missing wingback Tom Con­
naghan, who has a shoulder in­
jury, and wingback Alex Kratz, 
who has chosen this spring not 
to play soccer. Also missing 
from last fall's starting lineup 
is senior captain Steve Lowney. 

Indiana loses a few more seniors for this match, three of whom started against Notre Dame--keeper Bruce Killough, midifelder Simon Kanter and wingback David Eise. More importantly the Hoosiers will play without midfielder Ken Godat and stopper Marc Be­hringer, both of whom were in­jured in indoor play earlier this semester. 
-
Indiana had a very success­ful indoor season, winning the St. Louis Budweiser Invita­tional and losing in a shootout in the championship match of the Northwestern Invitational. 

-
In those same two tournaments Notre Dame placed fourth at Northwestern and failed to move out of the preliminary bracket at St. Louis. 

r----------­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1988 
Wildcats 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Complacency and good oppo­sition pitching were two factors that effectively shut down the Irish baseball team yesterday. Despite the home field advan­tage and recent success, Notre Dame fell to Northwestern 5-0. 
The Irish were carrying a 20­14 record coming into the game, winning 14 of their last 19 contests. Wednesday, they were unable to get anything started. 
"We weren't mentally ready to play," said first-year coach Pat Murphy. "We have to play consistently every day, but we weren't mentally ready today. We played our worst game of the season." 
Part of the reason for the poor offensive performance of the team was the Northwestern pitching. Starter Tony Ariola blanked the Irish for six in­nings, allowing only five hits. 
In the final three innings, Notre Dame managed only three singles off three Northwestern relievers. 
"You have days like this," said Murphy. "You have to wipe them off and keep going. We lapsed mentally because we've won 20 games, but we can't start thinking that way if we want to win." 
This is the 18th-straight loss 

to Big Ten powers for the Irish. 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
Notre Dame tennis jumped into the forefront of college ten­nis on Wednesday when it received a letter of intent from the top tennis recruit in the­country. David DiLucia, the lOth-ranked high school player in the country, will enroll as a freshman in the fall. 
First year Irish coach Bob Bayliss is overjoyed at the prospect of coaching DiLucia, a native of Norristown, Pa. 

Bob Bayliss 

"This will be a signal to the country," Bayliss said. "Notre Dame will be a team to be reckoned with in the future. In terms of eligible college players, he is the prospect." 
DiLucia has compiled some awesome statistics over the last few years. His most recent accomplishment was winning the Easter Bowl tournament in Florida. The Easter Bowl is the biggest junior tournament in
-the country. Bayliss first met DiLucia at the National Junior Tourna­ment in Kalamazoo, Mich., last August. 
-
blank -Irish 5-0 
The last time Notre Dame defeated a Big Ten team was a 22-4 romp against Northwes­tern in 1986. 
Most of the damage against the Irish occurred in the first inning against senior starter Kevin Chenail. Mter allowing a leadoff walk to Todd Frese and a single to Tim Buhe, Chenail gave up a three-run homer to outfielder Bob Brucato. 
When the very next battter, Bob Beacon, doubled, Chenail was replaced. Mike Harmon got the call, and although Bea­con came around to score on a ground ball and a fielder's choice, Harmon pitched ex­tremely well. 
Harmon pitched seven in­nings and allowed only one earned run. He gave up five hits and no walks, and picked off three baserunners. 
"I came in with the attitude basically to hold them right

where they were and stop their------------------------------------­
momentum," said Harmon. "I felt confident with all three of my pitches, and was able to get ahead on the count. I felt strong." 
Notre Dame plays host to MCC rival Detroit this weekend at home. With a doubleheader on Saturday and then again on Sunday at Jake Kline Field, Notre Dame's spot in the postseason MCC could be se­cured. 
Bayliss, NO tennis land top recruit 
"That was a real flesh mar­ket, and I don't really get into that," said Bayliss. "I just told him where Notre Dame was going and why we might get there. He seemed interested." 
DiLucia placed third in the New Hampshire indoor at Thanksgiving. That tourna­ment featured the top 128 junior players in the country. It was then that Bayliss learned Notre Dame would be one the schools visited by DiLucia. DiLucia's signing was a move noticed around the country. 
"Notre Dame is making a huge commitment to upgrade tennis," said former tennis great Arthur Ashe in Chicago last weekend. "Think of it, Notre Dame with all it's clout. That's the biggest news I've heard in months. This will upgrade not only Notre Dame tennis but all schools that play Notre Dame." 
Bayliss feels there are a number of reasons why DiLucia chose Notre Dame. He is a member of the National Honors Society and academics are important to him. Notre Dame's difficult schedule was a factor. 
"Two important reasons I would mention are the Eck and Dick Rosenthal,'' said Bayliss. "We couldn't even approach DiLucia without a center like the Eck. Dick Rosenthal sat down and answered any ques­tions that David and his family had. These two factors demon­strated the school's commit­ment to the tennis program." 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
' ;~ . ; I\ ,.
•. , ' I I .f--l 
""c\' /-1~ ·"' .
...;._I ~ -~ ~ ·.. .,0/'I .. ·,, . ~.::. -~ ~.... </ . 
~~~ .._ .)~
8011'1t111'11""'""',011lnllvtmii...... WMODCK5 

If Notre Dame splits with Detroit, the Irish would almost be assured of a bid to the MCC tourney. If they take three of four they would clinch a bid, and if they sweep both doubleheaders, the Irish would be virtually guaranteed to host the tournament. 
As of now the Irish stand at 6-2 in MCC play. Dayton is second at 2-2 and Detroit hasn't played yet. The winner of the MCC tournament wins a bid to the NCAA tournament. 
IRISH ITEMS--Kevin Chenail's start yesterday broke the record for most career starts by a Notre Dame pitcher at 33 . . . second baseman Mike Moshier suf­fered a sprained right wrist in the second inning yesterday on a stolen base play. His condi­tion is stated as day-to-day. Steve Skupien replaced Mos­hier and went two-for-three . 
The Observer 1 Suzanne Poch 
The Irish hurlers had a tough day Wednesday as the Northwestern Wildcats broke out to an early lead and held on for a 5-0 shutout. Scott Brutocao has the story at left. 


An entry in your name is made each time you use your ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS card at Trustcorp Bank's LaFortune 24 hour ADVANTAGE location.* 
PLLt~ -open an additional aecoUD.t and earn more entrieat 
NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL TVPE OF ACCOUNT ENTRIES 
helaslve Direct Deposit .......................................... 25 Payroll Deduction.................................... 20NO Consumer Choice Loan ........................... IS FREE Checking (interest bearing)......... 10Banking Savings; Christmas Club; CD's ............... 10 Prime Une or VISA Card......................... I 0Beneftbl ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS Card..................... 5 
Fro• APRIL 4, throap MAY 7, 1988 -Drawlq held MAY 9, 1988 
GRAND PRIZE 
Worldwide roundtrip airlare for two on any American'Airlines route. PLUS-$300 ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS cash! 
FIRST PRIZE -Weekend package trip for 2 to downtown Chicago. 
SECOND PRIZE -SchwlnnrM 10 speed bike. TIDRD PRIZE -Golf clubs. 4 FOURTH PlACE WINNERS -Tennis Rackets 
5 nFDI PlACE WINNERS -35mm Automatic Cameras 
All airline and travel packages are provided by AmericanAirlines and QM@®$1 
LaForhme Banking Center 237-54ND 
f1.JU SERVICE BANKING HOURS: Monday-Friday lOam -7pm; Saturday lOam -lpm 
*All transactions except balance Inquiries qualify. No purchue necessary. Official rules and entry blanks are available at Lafortune Banking Center office. 
C 1988 Truatcorp Bank. South Bend MEMBER miC 
~----------------------------------------------------------J 
-

Thursday, April 14, 1988 The Observer page 15 

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 
7H€ IIM£KICIW FKOM 7H€ 
Kel'f?e501TIITl'rfr5 
MI&HT7H6Y 
~~~~-OF 

1/.AP.O.P.T.I/.P. 11€'5 
5€m£ WHY 
50 WhtJ P.O.'/) liRE He?E TO PI/~€/) 01/T 
RJf? II UJWlY NOT.? 
liRe PTA tr1t:ETWrTH IN11£ I?EN. 
V.f'. _? 
THGYf Ml?eNT5.

I
8/t.L. 
\ \\

I I 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
f>.. ltW Mf>..GW...N\tJIOOS GES\\ll<t:.S 'N\-11\.£ IN OITICE ~~ t.\\GIIT B't:. IN ORDE~. 
IF ~0\JR \-\\NO's GONt. ~\.MK, 1 \if\~ '3:)1.\E S\lG\;£5\\0NS. 
~~:~ 

_w The townsfolk all stopped and stared; they didn't know the tall stranger who rode calml'l through their midst, but they did know the reign of terror had ended. '§#<~.........~.....~.....~~~~H4.........~.....~~H4~H4.....-H~~H4~H4
....H4.....H4-························# ....................................................... 
THIS WEEK ~I ontr I)rthoN Film Festival 
··~~·· 


..1/:r/li ..
Thursday, Friday, .·· 'fiJJII\e~·~~~~>'l; 
Saturday, ~ April 14 AND NOW 
April 16
Apri115 FOR 
SOMETHING COMPLETEt: 
Holy Grail 

DIFFERENT Shows at 8:00 and 1 0:00 p.m.
Tickets $2.00 Catch Monty Python's Founder Graham Chapman at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Ufe of Brian 

April 24th. Tickets available 3-5 PM Weekdays Baseme~t of LaFortune 


Campus 
Thursday 
10-11:30 a.m.: Department of Modern Languages Workshop with Prof. Mary Ann Caws, Room 131 Decio Hall. • 
12:15-1:15 p.m.: Justice in the context of the U.S. Constitution Series Lecture, "The Meaning of AIDS," moderator: Charles Pressler, Saint Mary's. Lunchtime conversation and discussion with AIDS patients; sandwiches will be served, Stapleton Lounge. 
12:15 p.m. and 7 p.m.: Snite Museum Film, "Godzilla Meets Mona Lisa," 1985, color, 30 minutes. 
12:30 p.m.: GALA-Kellogg Graduate Student Workshop, "Cuba, Yesterday, and Today" (Impressions from 1970 and 1988), by Prof. Richard Weisskoff, Notre Dame, and Assoc. Prof. Kenneth Jameson, Notre Dame, Room 131 Decio Hall. 
3 -5 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture, "Foreign Relations as Political Process, Part 3," by Harold Saunders, The Brookings Institution, Room 110 Law School, discussion papers available in advance; call liPS offices, 239-6970, for copies. 
3:30p.m.: Reilly Lectureship in Chemical Engineering, "The Organization of Living Systems and Biological Modeling Strategy,'' by Professor Edwin Lightfoot, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
3:30p.m.: Civil Engineering Seminar, "Statistical Linearization in Structural Dynamics," by Professor Pol Spanos, Rice University, 301 Cushing Hall. 
4 p.m.: College of Arts and Letters Distinguished Visiting Scholars Series and Program in Critical and Continental Thought Series Lecture, "The Concept of Dialogue in Intercultural Relations," by Father David Tracy, University of Chicago Divinity School, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Room 283. 
7 p.m.: WVFI-AM 640 News Team coverage of the Mock Convention, with in-depth reports and political commentary. 8 p.m.: Riley Center Lecture, "Cantor and the Continuum Hypothesis," by Prof. Mary Tiles, London, England, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 8 p.m. Saint Mary's Department of English Reading by Denise Levertov, poet­in-residence, Carroll Auditorium. 10-11 p.m.: WVFI's Campus Perspectives talkshow with guests from the Mock Convention, host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. 11 p.m.: WVFI-AM 640 News Team coverage of the Mock Convention, with 
in-depth reports and political commentary. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Grilled Pastrami Sweet and Sour Chicken Meatloaf Stuffed Shells 
Saint Mary's 

Turkey Broccoli Divan Baked Meatloaf Cheese Blintzes with Ap­plesauce Deli Bar 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 One of the 
Aeslr 5 Tennis name 9 Sack 
12 Store event 13 College VIPs 15 Tiresome one 16 Leprechaun 
land 17 Film star 
Signe 18 Stir up 19 Nursery rhyme 
character 22 Make public 23 Teleost fishes 24 US humorist 27 Tableland 30 Rdll 34 Freeman of 
films 36 Alas. cape 38 Santiago's 
land 39 Eng. song of the 1930's 42 Reading 
matter 43 Wavy: Her. 44 Volume 45 Doctrines 47 Moist 49 Soak flax 50 202 52 Interdict 54 "You are old 
-" (Carroll) 60 Fish 61 Softly In 
music 62 Bivalve 64 Run before a 
gale 65 Drone 66 A Logan 67 Tiny ­68 Cheers 69 Appraise 
DOWN 1 Mao --tung 2 Damage 3 Mishmash 4 Oscar de 
Ia­5 Follower 
t-:::-+--+-+-1-­

© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
6 Brand 7 Hodgepodge 8 Follow 9 Yokel 
10 Saharan 11 Colloid 14 Staid 15 General e.g. 20 Pronoun 21 Composer 
Ernest 24 "It's ­unusual day" 25 Smooth In music 26 "We -joy" (Roethke) 28 Part of 

London  04/14/88  
29 31  Better Indonesian  41·Earthquakes 46 Singer  55 Styptic 56 Mural's  
32  Island Kind of figs  Cesare 48 Crony  57  place Curare's kin  
33 Adjust  51  Rainbow:  pref.  58  - breve  
35 Chi-chi  53  More pleasant  59  Beer need  
37 Wagner role  54 Points of  60  Plane  
40 Letter  convergence  63  Ms West  






Sports
Thursday, April 14, 1988 page 16 
Bookstore field bunches up 
:~ 

as third round continues 
By BRIAN O'GARA for jumper in the overtime to The Minahoonies survived a Sports Writer keep close and eventually se­scare from Look Who Bought cure the win. The Myth, a team which gave The teams get better and the "The Ministers of Pain is a up nearly 4 inches and 60 games get tighter in Bookstore power team," said point guard pounds per man to the team Basketball action, as the tourn­Andrew Higney. "I'm not sure which eliminated them. Look ament field continues to nar­we're into this overtime stuff Who Bought The Myth stayed row in anticipation of next and the endurance factor. I close in the second half with a week's battle of the final 64 sure was glad to see Jim scrappy defense and accurate teams. (Baugus) put in that last hoop outside touch, but could not 
Half of the third round games to give us the win and end it." keep the rally going to stage were played yesterday and the the upset. remaining 32 games-in that Minahoonies, who were led round will be played today. by Steve Antonelli (eight Though the 666-team tourna­points) and Tom Gorman
lllllllllt­
ment doesn't stop for weather, Higney, Miles Hadlock and (seven), used their brawn not it takes a break this weekend Rick Granger kept the Minis­only to clear the lane for hoops for the Senior Fornal and then ters in it with hot shooting but at times simply for their ;;r resumes on Monday with the hands in the overtime, compen­own enjoyment, and will need l Round of 128. sating for the absence of cneter to keep their game rolling in 
-~, ! Yesterday's last games at Tim Ryan with pinpoint outside the next round, which will be Stepan proved to be the longest, shooting. Granger, who poured the first to include referees. as The Ministers of Pain nipped in 12 points, broke a 26-26 tie, We Don't Need A Center in a then a 27-27 tie, with jumpers Tofu's Last Gig continued its marathon 29-27 win, while Men before before Baugus found run at the title with a 21-11 on Men shot down A Pilot and himself and the ball open under thrashing of Long On The Yen. 4 Guys Who Can't Fly, 25-23. the hoop to send his team into Tofu looked on top of its game 
The Ministers of Pain, who the next round. on both ends of the court and may go bicep-to-bicep with Right next door, Men on Men will be tough to handle if they Minnahoonies in the Round of set up their own match with continue to play that way. J.C. 64 if both teams survive their Minahoonies on Monday with Trebus (9-of-14) and Bill Zadell 
/Bob Jones 

next matchup, are typically a their overtime win. Pete (8-of-11) led all scorers.
Bookstore action has gotten tougher as the field winds down to 
physical team but matched We Hartweger tallied 11 points and 
the round of 64. Brian O'Gara has Wednesday's highlights In his see TOFU, page 11
Don't Need A Center jumper 14 rebounds for the winners. 
story at right. 

Irish lax downs Lake Forest 11-7 in Krause opener 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team took a trip through the Twilight Zone in its game Wed­nesday with Lake Forest as the 11-7 victory seemed more like the game tape of the Irish's earlier 11-6 victory over the Foresters on April 1. 
Senior tri-captain Tom Lanahan led the Irish from his middie position with three goals and two assists while junior attackman John Olmstead contributed a goal and an two assists as the team moved to 9-1 for the season. Senior goalie Matt McQuillan had 11 saves, coming up with nine in the first half. 
The last time the two teams met the Irish led 9-1 toward the end of the third quarter. In that game Lake Forest threw a scare into Notre Dame by closing to within 10-6 with five minutes to play. 

This time around the Irish had a big third quarter on their way to scoring nine goals in a row and led 11-2 with 13:29left in the fourth quarter. But the Foresters came back against the Notre Dame reserves to pull within 11-7 at the 4 : 44 mark before the Irish starters re­entered the game to secure the win. 
Notre Dame scored its five third-period goals on only seven shots and shot 44 percent for the game, significantly above its season average of 30 percent. What makes those stats even more impressive is the fact that seven of the goals came from the middies, who usually attempt tougher out­side shots. 
"We shot terribly as a team (1-for-20) in the second half against Kenyon's zone last week, and a lot of that has to do with the fact that the middies are not used to being the ones counted on to score," said Lanahan, who led the team in scoring for the second time this year. 
"A good team shoots around 35 percent for a game and hope­fully we're on that track now." 
Just as the game followed the bluebrint of the previous Irish­Foresters clash, this contest was true to form for Notre Dame in another way. For the fifth time this season, the Irish scored five goals or more in the third quarter to produce a com­fortable lead. 
According to Irish head co­ach Rich O'Leary, the third quarter is often the most cru­cial time in the game. 
"In the third period the teams start equally and both can make significant adjust­ments and come out with con­fidence," O'Leary said. "The third quarter is when you can turn the game around and for­tunately we've been successful in the third when we've had to be." 
A key factor in the win was Notre Dame's ability to clear the ball up the field. The Irish cleared 14 of their final 15 at­tempts, in part due to a halftime adjustment that utilized the faster midfielders to bring the ball upfield. 
Lake Forest coach Wayne Braxton said that his team could do little to thwart the vir­tually error-free Irish clears. 
"We did everything we could to stop them but you can't do much when they keep catching the ball," Braxton said. "I think in one sequence they passed the ball nine times with­out a mistake. The bottom line is that they did what they had to do in key situations. Their top three guys on midfield (Lanahan and fellow tri­captains John McNicholas and Art Brady) played tough and if they lost the ball they scrapped and got it back." 
A reader's guide to fan behavior 
You stand in line, you buy a ticket, you head for the stadium on a Saturday afternoon, you find your allotted seat (or any other one that looks good) and you feel like a normal, rational, responsible human being. 
But, at the opening pitch, the kick-off, the face-off or the opening tip, you become a different being. A fan. A monster. 
Fan is short for fanatic. No one, once that game starts, is sane, and yes, we all can relate to certain types of fans. 
We've all been seated near Loud Mouth. A for­merly decent (currently armchair) athlete now sporting a tremendous beer belly, Loud Mouth is behind his team all they way but can't help but let the 6,000 people or so within the range of his voice that if he were out on the field, the game would be different. 
Loud Mouth takes no prisoners. He hollers at the players, the coaches, the ball boys, the vendors, the officials, the trainers, the opposition, God and the women in short skirts, sparing no one and delet­ing no expletives. 
"OKAY YOU (expletive), IF YOU DON'T WIN THIS (expletive) GAME AGAINST THE (expletive) LAKERS, I WILL NEVER AGAIN BUY ANOTHER (expletive) GREEN AND WHITE STUFFED LARRY BIRD DOLL." 
If the game isn't close, Loud Mouth usually sits alone by the time the fourth quarter draws to an end. So he lets loose his wrath on all those he believes to be... 
A Fair Weather fan, who does not cheer for a team unless they've already got a lock on first place. He is more concerned with beating the traffic than beating the Yankees, the Celtics, the Islanders or the Cowboys. 
Theresa Kelly 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Fair Weather can't be anywhere but on the band­wagon, but doesn't realize that loyal fans have little toleration for him. Where do the Jets fans go when the Giants are winning? Where were the Giants' fans in 1987? Where are the Cardinal football fans now? When his team is in first, Fair Weather heads to the mall, buys a team T-shirt and is passionately behind the boys until they slump into second place. 
At the opposite end of the sports spectrum is the Born Loser. This poor type of fan (90 percent of which are Cub fans) denies that the team is bad, pronounces them to be underachievers, victims of bad timing and always says, "it's a game of inches." 
Born Loser is loyal, but sick. It could be next year, or next decade, whenever or never, Born Loser is eternally optimistic but always surprised when the team actually pulls out a victory. He is not surprised often. 
Born Loser is strong, having suffered so much, but weak to the perils of success. A pennant race or sudden death is usually too much for Born Loser to watch. 
The type of fan with the most rapidly growing population is Daddys' Girl. She was born on Super Bowl Sunday (another case of failed family plan­ning) and no one has forgiven her for that. She teethed on styrofoam cups still dripping with Bud­weiser and wailed at her brother when he switched from the NFL Today to Wild Kingdom reruns. She 
. is the son her father never had, even if she has a brother. Her friends play with Barbies, have tea parties and wear pink. She plays one-on-one, has Little League and wears Toughskins. She grows up and leaves home and still calls her father to get the scores and standings. She gets a job and spends her money on season tickets to everything. She gets funny looks when she scrambles with the eight-year olds for Ozzie Virgil's autograph, but she won't forget to get one for her son. Last, and least, we have the Stat Man, who is very trying, yet interesting to sit next to, at a game. 
see FANS, page 10 






