-.--------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------~--------~--­
IACCENT: Service of esc IVIEWPOINT: Attacks on Alcohol Policy 
r . ---:!71
No jacket required 
Mostly sunny, windy and warmer today. High in the lower 80s. Partly cloudy tonight with 20 percent chance of showers . 



THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1988 VOL. XXII, NO. 1 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Policy on tailgaters remains the same 
By MICHELLE DALL Senior Staff Reporter 
Despite the revised alcohol policy, the University's attitude toward tail­gaters will remain the same, according to Ann Firth, director of residence life at Notre Dame. 
"There will be no change in the policy regarding tailgating; tailgaters were never supposed to be student­sponsored," said Firth. 
The newly-revised 1988-89 Alcohol Policy states, "No student, student or­ganization, or-residence hall may orga­nize or sponsor 'tailgaters' on campus or on any adjacent fields or parking lots at any time for the purpose of ser­ving alcoholic beverages." 
According to the policy, students who 
violate the rules will receive a $300 fine 
upon their first offense. The document 
also states, "Further violations will 
result in suspension or dismissal (of the 
student).'' 
"Security has always made an effort to enforce the rules at tailgaters," said Security Director Rex Rakow. "No ad­ditional officers will be employed this year. Instead, Security will continue to enforce the rules consistently." 
"As long as the tailgaters don't in­fringe on the rights of others and aren't student or dorm sponsored," said Rakow, "they shouldn't impose a greater problem than before. Obvious­ly, large, loud gatherings will attract the attention of security officers." 
Although extra measures will not be employed to prevent alcohol consump­tion in the tailgating area, added steps will be taken to deter alcohol usage in­side the football stadium, according to Dick Rosenthal, director of athletics at Notre Dame. "We've added extra hosts and hostesses and re-trained our usher force so they'll identify anyone who at­tempts to drink in the stadium more easily," he said. 
see ALCOHOL, page 6 


' 
The Indiana gubernatorial candidates Evan Bayh and John Mutz as they debated at Notre Dame last night. 

Mutz and Bayh face off in first gubernatorial debate 
By DAN MURPHY Staff Reporter 
Republican John Mutz and Demo­crat Evan Bayh devoted most of their time addressing taxes, educa­tion and experience as they faced off in the first debate of their guber­natorial race Wednesday night. The hour-long event was broadcast live from the Center for Continuing Edu­cation at Notre Dame. 
"We Hoosiers understand the im­portance of traditional values," said Bayh, the first-term secretary of state, "family, hard work, public service." 
The two-term Lieutenant Gover­nor Mutz cited his political experi­ence and accomplishments. "The most important questions are those that will not be asked," he said, "the questions that are determining how we will react to those crisis and chal­lenges that we can't know." 
Bayh said he would keep taxes down by fighting wasteful spending, reducing spending by 10 percent and cutting his staff by 20 percent. He indicted Indiana's tax record for the last eight years, which includes five tax hikes, two of which were the larg­est in the state's history. 
see DEBATE, page 6 
Associated Press 
An earthquake shook Kentucky, In­diana and three other states Tuesday night, alarming thousands of people but causing little significant property damage, authorities said. 
Cracks appeared in a few buildings, items fell off walls, pilot lights in fur­naces were blown out and a home propane tank overturned near the epicenter of the quake, between Mount Sterling and Sharpsburg in eastern Kentucky. 
John Minsch, a geophysicist with the 
National Earthquake Information Cen­
ter in Golden, Colo., said the shocks 
registered 4.5 on the Richter scale com­
pared to a 5.1 reading for a damaging 
quake that was centered in about the 
same area in 1980. 
"It looks like this is the kissing cousin 
of the 1980 earthquake," University of 
Kentucky seismologist Ron Street said 
Wednesday. "It looks like it occurred 
in the same spot." 
Minsch and Street both said the 
temblor was not related to the New 
Madrid Fault, a 150-mile crack in the 
earth from northern Arkansas to south­
ern Illinois that produced catastrophic 
earthquakes in 1811 an 1812. 
"It practically shook me out of the 
chair," Betty Raines of Huntington, 
W.Va., said of Tuesday's quake, which 
also was felt in Tennessee, West Vir­
ginia and Ohio. 
The Ohio River town of Maysville, 
Ky., which suffered $1 million in 
damage during the 1980 quake, ap­parently was largely unaffected by Tuesday's tremor. Authorities there said no significant damage had been reported. 
Kentucky Department of Mines and 
Minerals officials said Wednesday there had been no reports of damage to the state's coal mines as a result of the quake. 
"I've worried all day about that but so far I haven't had the first call," said David Phillips, the department's dis­trict supervisor in Pikeville. Phillips said a severe earthquake easily could cause disasters in coal mines by forcing roofs to collapse. 
About 500 people called Cincinnati police to report the quake during the first hour after the quake, said Richard Young, Hamilton County Communica­tion Center supervisor. 
Montgomery County, Ky., Fire Chief Wayne Welch said the quake had damaged plaster and ceilings in a 98­year-old apartment building in Mount Sterling. After the shocks subsided, some of about 60 people who live in the building also reported smelling natural gas, Welch said. 
Authorities later determined the gas odor was coming from pilot lights for the building's furnaces that apparently had been knocked out during the initial quake or a minor aftershock immedi­ately afterward, Welch said. 
State disaster officials and local building inspectors also were checking the condition of several schools in the area. 
--~~-----­
page 2 The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
A hoop shooting contest will be hosted by 
Don't be cruel ... 
members of the men's basketball team on the 
fieldhouse mall at 2 p.m. today. This event is being held 
in conjunction with the LaFortune Student Center Open 
House. -The Observer 
let Elvis rest in peace 
OF INTEREST 
All student club presidents who have not 
received their allocations packets may pick them up in 
the office of student activities on the third floor of 
LaFortune Student Center between 9-12 and 1-5. -The 
Observer 
Future diplomats are encouraged to attend today's 
meeting for the model United Nations Club. It will be 
held at 7:30p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Hall. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Encounter participants, there will be a palanca writing session on Sept. 13, at 9 p.m. in the Lewis Chapel. Any questions, call Peter Smith at 283-3683. -The Observer 
Wear green to the game this Saturday. HPC and Irish Insanity are sponsoring a face paint at the dining halls and green field before the game. There is no charge, so come show your support for the Irish against. Michigan. -The1Jbserver 
Gregorian chant group begins with a reading of ferial vespers today at 4 p.m. in the Music Seminar Room (second floor of the Hesburgh Library). For more information call Fabian at 288-3020. -The Observer 
ROTC Cadet Commanders will be on WVFI's Campus Perspectives today from 10-11 p.m. with Dave DuHadway, Robyn Sayres, and Bob Castello. Call in at 239-6400. Hosted by Chris Shank. -The Observer 
An organizational meeting of the ND SMC 
Council For The Retarded will be held today at 7:30 
p.m. today at the ND Knights of Columbus Hall. Vans will pick up St. Mary's students between 7 and 7:30 p.m.in front of Holy Cross Hall. -The Observer 
Ladies of Columbus will hold an organizational 
meeting in the Knights of Columbus building at 7:30 
p.m. today. For further information, call 283-3103. -The Observer 
The Office of Student Activities is compiling a list of students who perform some act (bands, guitar players, jugglers, ets.) and who would like to perform on campus. Register in 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
-The Observer 
Seniors in the College of Science are encouraged to attend their Placement Night today at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. A Representative from Merck and company, Dow Corning Corporation, and Aetna Live and Casualty will give presentations on their respective industries. Following these, a mock interview will be conducted. -The Observer 
The Women's Resource Committee of the Graduate Student Union will sponsor a brown bag lunch session on the topic of "Women in Academics." The discussion will be facilitated by Rita Donley, staff psychologist, University Counseling Center. Join us Sept. 13 at 12:15 p.m. in the library lounge. -The Observer 

Design Editor Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Design Assistant .............. Beth Peterson Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Typesetters ...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Accent Layout... .............. Tim Irvine 
..................Andy Schlidt Typist . . . . . . . . . Diana Bradley News Editor... . ...... Kendra Lee Morrill ...................................Will Zamer Copy Editor . . . ............ Missy Weber ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey Sports Copy Editor... . .......... Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ............. Maura Reidy 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Ann Hebenstreit 
The Oblerver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through. Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tille Oblerver is a member of The Assodaled Press. All reproduction rights are re5Cnled. 
Robyn Simmons 

Accent Copy Editor 
For the past 11 years, every tabloid newspaper has had one story to fall back on when U.F.O. and Bigfoot sightings were down and Hollywood love affairs weren't heated up enough. It seems that the National Enquirer and its cousins follow one credo: 
When in doubt, do another story on Elvis. 
Yes, the King has been dead since 1977, but his reign continues. People just can't seem to get enough of him. Elvis' followers make their faithful pilgrimages to Graceland and weep over his grave while placing flowers at his tombstone. Elvis impersonators still perform in nightclubs across the country. And the tabloids keep trying to convince us that Elvis is still alive. 
Elvis has reportedly been sighted in a con­venience store and driving along a deserted country road. People seem to spot him everywhere. Some women say they have borne his illegitimate children (all born with jet black hair and sideburns.) One woman even claimed that she made love to the ghost of Elvis. 
All of these people who claim that they have seen Elvis usually come from towns with a pop­ulation of about 20 with a collective I.Q. even lower than that. Most eyewitness accounts sound like this: "And there it was, plain as day. It was the biggest thing I ever saw. With rhines­tones as big as my head. Then it started to sing 'Love Me Tender,' an' I figured that I had either met my maker or I'd just seen Elvis!" 
I know if I ever met the King, I wouldn't go running to the Enquirer. I'd show Elvis around campus, perhaps take him along with my friends when we go out on the weekends. I could introduce him to all the people I meet at parties, " ... and these are my friends Nancy, Lisa, and Elvis." 
Since Elvis seemed to have an affinity for eating considerable amounts of food in his later years, he could probably work in the dining hall. Elvis could eat all of the leftovers before they became ingredients in some casserole later on in the week. 
Elvis would also make Notre Dame a dry 
campus at last. As I recall, Elvis also had an 
affinity for intoxicating substances. Monk Mal­
loy could enlist Elvis as a drugs/alcohol officer, 
confiscating every narcotic in sight. 

ML6 

Elvis would go from party to party saying, "Sorry kids, I'm afraid the party's over. I've got my orders to drink every last drop of beer in the place. Remember, I'm doing this for your own good. Ifyou don't mind, I'll just start drink­ing from the tap." 
With Elvis on campus, he could hold concerts every week in the JACC. People from all over the country would flock to hear him sing and see him wiggle his pelvis onstage. With all of his fans traveling thousands of miles to see the King, South Bend-Mishawaka would truly be "alive with pride." 
I know that Elvis has a lot of fans who are truly devoted to him. I will admit that Elvis had an outstanding voice, and his performances were equally enthralling. However, the fact remains that Elvis never wrote any of his songs, hit on a 14-year-old Priscilla when he was about 25, and by the end of his life he was a bloated walking pharmacy. 
Of all the people in the world people would want to bring back to life, why should it be Elvis? I don't hear of people sighting Martin Luther King or Ghandi in the grocery store buying Oreos. Why aren't people looking for the ghosts of the truly great leaders of our time instead of a talented performer who let fame go to his head? Seeing Elvis is just wishful thinking, and those people who keep looking for him should spend their time more productively. 
So let me make it clear once and for all: Elvis is dead, he has been for 11 years, and he's not coming back. However, I did see John Lennon in the 7-11 the other day ... 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~~~~~-:~-~~~:~i~~~:~~:::.·~~;~··~~~--~p 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you danc1ng 
LaFortune.
on pool tables ton<ght

II II 

LIP SYNC CONTEST 
October 8 
Interested in participating? 
Call 239-6940 
Ask for Maura 
or 283-3723 
Thursday, September 8, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
Old Faithful evacuated for first time in park's history 
Associated Press million acres, park spokes­
woman Marsha Karle said. 

YELLOWSTONE NA-On Yellowstone's northern TIONAL PARK, Wyo.-For the border, a river of fire flowed first time in the 116-year his-within feet of two small tourist tory of the oldest U.S. national towns, and firefighters hoped park, officials ordered the winds would continue to shep­evacuation Wednesday of the herd the Storm Creek fire past Old Faithul Geyser complex Cooke City and Silver Gate, ahead of a 165,000-acre fire. Mont. 
About 800 visitors calmly left Nearly 550 firefighters and a the Old Faithful Inn, which fleet of bulldozers were moved park officials decided to close to the Island Park area in Idaho for the season more than a to keep the North Fork fire month early. Later, however, from spreading there. park officials decided to allow Forest fires also burned in day visitors in the area. California, Washington, Idaho 
High wind caused the North' and utah. Fork fire to expand by 20,000 The North Fork fire extended acres on its northern flank, but a finger of flame toward Old the blaze threatened no build-Faithful, but firefighters ex­ings in the geyser complex. pected to be able to steer the 
Fires in the Greater Yel-flames around the southern lowstone area, which includes perimeter of the complex, said nearby national parks in Mon-incident commander Denny 
"It's still sitting up on the ridge about half a mile away from 'us," Bungarz said. "We expect the fire, ~f it. does run into our lines, will h1t us very lightly. It will not be a big wall of flame." 
Park officials changed their mind about closing roads into the geyser complex and ban­ning all visitors after they flew over the North Fork fire, said Joe Evans, district park ranger in charge of Old Faithful. 
Park officials also scrapped a plan to evacuate employees of the historic inn and decided instead to have them stay about two days and close the inn for the season, which was sched­uled to end Oct. 12, Evans said. 
Bungarz said the 13 fires in the Greater Yellowstone area 

tana, have charred close to 1 Bungarz. had advanced a total of about
r-----------------------.... 80,000 acres on Tuesday. 
J,KAPLAN 
STANLfY H. KAPLAN EDU<AnONAL CENTER LTD. 
-IMPORTANT NOTICE­(Good News!!) 
A second LSA T prep course for the 10/1/88 test will be starting at the Kaplan Center immediately. If you were unable to enroll or if you are a transfer from another Kaplan Center and were not able to get a seat in Class I, please call the South Bend Kaplan Center right away for class dates and times. You will have the same instructor. Please do not delay if you want a seat in Class II. We regret any inconvenience caused due to increased demand for our LSA T prep course for the l 0 I 1/88 test. 
Kaplan Educational Center 1717 E. Sm•+'. Bend Avenue South ,end, IN 46637 PHLI'IIE 219/272-4135 
The fires burning in the park, which has a total of 2.2 million acres, are the worst by far in the park's history. In no year has the acreage consumed by fire exceeded 30,000 acres, park naturalists say. 
The Boise Interagency Fire Center, the coordinating office for firefighting in the West, said fires this year have charred 3.65 million acres. 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW-The commander of a Soviet space capsule stranded in space for a day may have worsened equipment problems by not taking manual control, the government news­
paper suggested Wednesday 
after the Soyuz TM-5 landed 
safely. 

The government daily Izves­
tia said reporters questioned 
deputy flight chief Viktor 
Blagov of the Soviet space pro­
gram, on whether the com­
mander, Vladimir Lyakhov, 
made mistakes Tuesday 
during attempts to fire braking 
rockets aboard his Soyuz TM-5 
capsule. 

The tiny capsule parachuted 
to a landing at 4:50a.m. Wed­
nesday, Moscow time, 100 
miles southeast of Dzhezkaz­
gan in the Kazakhstan republic 
of Soviet Central Asia. 

Despite a problem with the 
guidance system, the 
spacecraft landed within only 
a few dozen miles of the in­
tended target and only 24 hours 
late, Izvestia reported. 

Television showed the tiny spherical Soyuz capsule float­ing toward the ground on a white parachute with orange stripes againt a reddish dawn sky. A puff of dust rose from the ground when the capsule landed. 
Abdul Ahad Mohmand, the first Mghan in space, and So­viet crewmate Lyakhov spent 26 hours aboard the cramped 
capsule that had enough air for 
only two days, dwindling food 
supplies and no toilet. 

"Of course it was not an easy thing to sit in spacesuits for 24 hours," Lyakhov, 47, said in an interview near the charred capsule. 
The problems began after the capsule undocked early Tues­day from Mir, the space station where Lyakhov and Mohmand spent six days with three other cosmonauts. 
After boarding their capsule and undocking from Mir, the cosmonauts made two at­tempts to reenter the atmo­sphere on Tuesday. 
Izvestia quoted Blagov as giving a philosophical answer to reporters asking whether technical problems or mis­takes by mission control or the capsule crew were to blame for the landing delay. 
-"Life is guilty, a coincidence of circumstances," Blagov said. 
Izvestia said Tuesday's first landing attempt was aborted when an infrared sensor used in guiding the spacecraft mal­functioned. 
If you have not yet signed up for your SENIOR PORTRAITS, please do so at the following times and location: 
DATE: Thursday, Sept. 8th (That's Today) 
Friday, Sept. 9th TIMES: 12:00 pm-5:00pm; 6:00pm-8:00pm PLACE: 108 LaFortune (First floor by the phones) 
---.------~--------­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1988
:................................................
~ 
i• AllTRON ICS •j 
: "Where Knowledge Make All the Difference" : 
: : 
: SPEAKERS ELECTRONICS CAR AUDIO : 
+ JBL . HARMOi\J KARDOi\J CLARIOi\J + + WHARFEDALE Oi\JKYO JBL + : EPI MARAI\ITZ HITACHI : + ALTEC LANSING PHILLIPS PROTOi\J + : E.S.S. AKAI ALPHASOi\JIK •• 
+ PHILLIPS AIWA EPI : HITACHI COi\ICORD : 
H.H. SCOTI AIWA +•
+ PROTOi\J + 
•+ DISC PLAYER WHARFEDALE •i
0NL.Y95 3 BEAM SYSTEM DIAMONDS ....
: 
WITH DIGITAL FILTER +• 
219 

+ 
World's Best Selling, • • Bookshelf Speakers. + • ~--ONLY • 
:. I 15 . 2F~~E·gAp i
R.M.S. RECEIVER WITH BUILT IN EQUALIZER AND Programable .•
REMOTE CONTROL! 
: : 50 WATTS Memories! : : PER CHANNEL 19gL:gs : 
: i
: i
i i
Ask About 
WEACCEPT! 

• '{ AWA" 
VISA • 
: LAvA·JL_AaLE! Our Student M~~:J~:nno •
A AMERICAN EX. • 
: Discount :
: :
: : 
: 3915 GRAPE ROAD 277-1801 :
i 
You'll find us just North of Edison Road! : 
~................................................: 
-

Thursday, September 8, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
'Hell Week' ends for ND Army ROTC Rangers 
--~~·~--~~ 
By MICHAEL WELLS 
News Staff 
Yesterday ended the three day ordeal of "hell week" for freshmen and sophomores in the Army ROTC Ranger Corps. 
"Basically it's an initiation period for the Rangers," said Senior Chuck Wehnes, Cadet Company Commander for "Charlie" Company (Rangers). 
During this period the cadets are assembled on Green Field at 5 a.m. and put through two to three hours of grueling physical and mental workouts. Seventy-two Rangers went through the event, said Wehnes, including the junior and senior officers in charge of the cadets. 
This is also the first time the group has consisted of anyone who did not volunteer to be­come an Army Ranger, said Wehnes. 
In previous years, the Ranger company on campus has been composed of only those who voluntarily joined. Now, however; every student entering Army ROTC will be required to spend one semester in each of the three companies: Weapons, Drill, and Rangers, said Wehnes. 
Sophomores not previously in the Ranger program will also be spending one semester in each area. 
According to Wehnes, the 
idea behind the rotation is to 
broaden the experience of every cadet in the Army's pro­gram, who will then be given the chance to choose which company he will finally stay with as an upperclassman. "The changes in batallion have really improved the cadet com­pany. They're going to produce a more qualified cadet, espe­cially when they get to ad­vanced camp," said Wehnes. 
Pat Murphy, a sophomore spending his third semester in the Ranger program, des­cribed doing "low crawl and high crawl" races through the mud, getting "smoked"-when an officer runs you until you 
drop, and being subjected to "mental harassment" and "mind games." 
Nevertheless, Murphy's pre­vious experience with hell week gave him a slightly dif­ferent perspective this time around, he said. "Last year I was really intimidated. I didn't know any of the people," he said. "This year I wasn't ter­rified and intimidated, just challenged." 
SMC Board of Governance discusses new parking policy 
complaints have been received 
By KAREN BALCERZAK 
about increased violation fines, 
News Staff 
lack of space, and the "no The new parking policy was parking in front of dorms" rule. one issue discussed at last 
Student Body President Julie 
night's meeting of Saint Mary's Parrish talked to Jason Lin­Board of Governance. Many dower, business manager of St. 
~~~~~~~~~~!~~~~~~,~~!~!~!~!~~~!~!~!~!~~~!~!~~~!~!~~~!~!~~~~~~~~~~~!~!:~~~
o:.:-: .................................................................... ~:.-.· 
':.~ ·-:~ 
~ « 
~ I ~
... I~G~ ... 
~... .«... 
~ »
.... ... 
~ « 
:::. announces a .:.·: 
~ « 
~ « 
:~% Pflttsri P/o,~~,t cfo,ls ~%~ 
~ ~ 
-~ ~ 
~ ~ 
·;.·· through Friday ..~ 
;.:. ::.~ 
:~~ Decorate your room at bargain prices! ;~~ 
:~~ : _ : M-F Basement of LaFortune ·~.~ 
1 ~~·.-:•
.........................................................................................................·.·.···.•··.··•.•....................... 
Mary's, about the present con­cerns. He said the new policy is a result of the large number of violators and unpaid fines from last year. 
Half -hour loading1.mloading passes may be picked up at se­curity by leaving one's ID, Par­rish said. She added that the McCandless parking Jot is only three-quarters full, and stu­dents may find plenty of parking space there. Parrish asked students not to park in the Bertrand lot, as it is for con­vent use only. 
The student input table was also discussed at the meeting. This will be today outside Hag­gar College Center or, weather not permitting, in the lobby. 
"If you have a problem, come to us," said Julie Parrish. 
The idea of purchasing a computer for student govern­ment use was also discussed. This computer might also be available for student use during certain hours, said Par­rish. Possible locations are still up in the air. 

Voter Registration at Saint Mary's will be Sept. 20-22 in the dining hall and Haggar College Center. Registration will be sponsored by Campus Mini­stry. Information about the presidential candidates will be made available . 

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 


.. 

OVER MICHIGAN!! 

HANKIES AVAILABLE for $3/each W-F at the Dining Halls, Lunch & Dinner, at the Class Offices, SATURDAY around th·e STADIUM, & at the Senior Concession Stand at Alumni Hall 

GO IRI H! BEAT MICHIGAN 
------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r-----------~----------------~ ---------~------~-------------~ .. -----~--------------------------~..----~--~------------------.-~ 
Thursday, September 8, 1988

pageS The Observer 
ND men descend on SMC for yearly raid 
Observer Staff Report out the windows while security guards looked on. Linda Gogliotti of Holy Cross 
Domers descended on the Hall said she participated in Saint Mary's campus last night the evening's festivities be­to take part in this year's cause "it is a tradition and I "panty raid," with Regina and bought out Hudson's clearance McCandless Halls serving as underwear section for it." the primary targets due to their Resident advisor Aimee large percentage of freshmen Meccia, explaining the added residents. security measures in effect, 
said: "Because neither school 
Traditionally held the Wed­condones it, men were not al­nesday prior to the first home lowed inside of any of the football game, the raid con­dorms while the raid was going sisted of the men serenading on," Meccia said. the hall residents with "You Security prevented men Lost That Lovin' Feelin" as lin­from entering the dorms with­
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 
gerie inscribed with hand­out going through the usual es­
LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's as seen from the sundeck on top of McCandless Hall. written messages was hurled cort procedure. 
render the alcohol, said Rosen­without inhibiting the rest of those which occurred in past good outing for other fans thal. "Then, if the student the crowd going into the years, said Rosenthal. "In the forced to endure such boorish
Alcohol 
refuses to comply, the police stadium," Rosenthal said. past, a few people have abused conduct." will be contacted, and the stu­He added that fans will also alcohol privileges by employ­
-continued from page 1 
dent will have to leave," he be continuously reminded over "Our fans are our guests If a student is observed said. the P A system not to bring liq­ing abusive language, being .... We have an obligation to violating the alcohol policy in "The officers will try to ap­uor into the stadium. overly exuberant, and becom­the vast majority of our fans to .. the stadium, the ushers will prehend alcoholic beverages The policy was instigated to ing ill," he said. "This obvi­vigorously enforce this 
first ask the student to sur-prior to entry into the stadium prevent problems similar to ously destroys an otherwise policy," he said. 
of California," said 32-year-old candidates seemed willing to Robert Schmuhl, director oftain parts of the program with­
Debate Bayh, "and look where he is be as combative as they were," the Program on Ethics and the
out a tax increase. 

now." He said his good ideas said Associate Professor Media.
On the issue of higher educa­
continued from page 1 
qualified him for the job of
tion, Bayh said he would keep 
governor, despite his limited 18
Mutz firmly stated that there state college tuition within a would be no tax increase during reasonable limit while raising months of political experience. Mutz said his 20 years of ex­
his administration if elected tuition for students from out­
governor. A "Rainy Day" fund side the state by five percent. perience and record of pro­
DUH! 

and a 10 percent budget reduc­Mutz stressed a need to raise grams demonstrate his politi­
tion would generate money to cal knowledge. He said there is
student aspiration to attend cover any new programs or ex­college through scholarships, no substitute for experience, 
penses, he said. grants and work-study pro­and the office of governor liA,pp 
Mutz defended the tax hikes grams. should go to the candidate who made during his administra­"I have more experience now is best prepared. 19th ytion. He said they were neces­than Ronald Reagan had ''There was no clear winner, sary to "clean up" the prob­before he was elected governor but I was surprised that both 
lems caused by the recession which set in during the Carter administration and to fund the A Plus education reform in 1986. 
Accused of wanting to scuttle the A Plus program, Bayh said he wanted to preserve certain aspects of the program, such as lowering the student­teacher ratio and focusing on at-risk children. He said he had reservations about other parts of the program, especially the longer school year, which he said costs the state $100 million. 
"The A Plus program is a monumental achievement, truly a piece of leadership," said Mutz. He said would not be able to retain or expand cer-
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOWIIENTINGFORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th and get ONE MONTH RENTFREE 
Office at 120 NO Ave 134-6647 
Call Aaytime 
Easy Ed! 

Drew, Dave, Lear-Jet Sleepy-guy and Sully ' 


Viewpoint 
7 
Alcohol Policy: involvement and liability 
Graduation day at Notre Dame is the ancial liability for such failures, whe­agents from the student's residence The unfortunate reality is that, despite conclusion of an intense learning expe­ther they be student suicides, assaults halls, the University's Alcohol Policy this policy, the University may still be rience. A degree in a specific field is or accidents is almost unlimited. The is an example where legalistic held liable for millions of dollars for similar to the woven basket brought Deep Pocket Theory renders the uni­guidelines have been infused into a the independent conduct of a single stu­home from summer camp--a remnant versity, which is tenuously accountable family setting in an effort to diminish dent. of just one aspect of a complex learning for the student's conduct in the real potential liabilities. Although the policy The standard of conduct for experience. The University of Notre world, entirely accountable for the stu­is also founded on Christian norms for negligence in tort law is usually the Dame undertakes to educate the stu­dent's conduct in the courtroom. The personal conduct the policy clearly "reasonable man." Through analogy dent in the classrooms and in the teaching institution which seeks to both states: "Indiana Criminal Law regard­one comes to the concept of "the residence halls, in the chapels and in house as well as guide the lives of their ing the consumption, distribution, reasonable university." The risk of le­the sports arena. It is this multifaceted sales, supplying, and providing of al­gal liabilities, if not common care for approach to the educational endeavor coholic beverages is quite clear. There­others, is a legitimate means of encour­
"Direct involvement with
that is threatened by today's litigious fore, any student, student organization aging "reasonable" conduct by both in­society. Fearing massive legal the extracurricular edu­or residence hall is expected to comply dividuals and institutions alike. It is es­liabilities, universities and colleges cation of students is be­with the Indiana code." University of sential, however, that our legal have extracted themselves from deep Notre Dame, Alcohol Policy and Reg­standards of conduct do not render the 
coming an unacceptable
rooted educational programs while in­ulations (1988-1989). people of this nation who serve; stituting legalistic guidelines for stu­risk for the American Before one becomes too cynical of the policemen, doctors and educators, as dent conduct. Direct involvement with university." infusion of such legal jargon into a well as the common man, ineffective the extracurricular education of stu­document promulgated by a University and uncaring for fear of the risks asso­dents is becoming an unacceptable risk students appears to undertake a very which prides itself on interpersonal ciated with involvement. for the American university. worthy and· yet financially irrespon­ministry, one must consider the 
sible endeavor. liabilities associated with the sanction­Dave Cosgrove is a second-year law 
..
Dave Cosgrove The University of Notre Dame has ing of illegal conduct by thousands of student and is an assistant rector of 
both bowed to and resisted the pressure young adults in a crowded community. Morrissey Manor. 
guest column from the legal liabilities associated with the commitment to the guidance Every educational endeavor IS ac­of student extracurricular conduct. The companied by its own unique risk of philosophy of "residentiality" is as 
P.O. Box Q
failure. Our society looks upon failure much a part of Notre Dame as is the in the classroom as the student's failure University's commitment to academic and the consequences of that failure are and athletic excellence. Faculty, the a concern about a certain policy or therefore usually borne by the student. clergy, lay leaders and student leaders regulation, a specific class or
Ticket office 
The university's liability for such fail­seek to educate the Notre Dame student academia, or a social event or activity, ures will usually be limited to its outside the classroom by cohabitating planned poorly we want to hear about it. Now is your 
reputation as an effective teaching in­with the student as members of a fam­stitution. Potential financial liabilities ily under one roof. This deep root inte­for a student's classroom failure are gration of agents of the University minimal. renders Notre Dame, a financial entity, The university or college which seeks subject to almost untenable legal to educate its students outside the class­liabilities. With involvement comes room bears a variety of almost ijn­both responsibility and the risk of fail­limited risks. Contrary to the class­ure; a relationship which has been ex­room scenario, a student's failure in a ploited in the legal arenas of this nation. residence hall or in the nearby commu­While the University of Notre Dame nity is looked upon as a failure by the has resisted the pressure of these legal tudent's university or college. The fin-liabilities by refusing to extract their 
~~ cnMil\GN PRilPOStS 30-S~D DiPAlE DURING GAME FIVE 111\IE WORt~ SERIES 

Doonesbury 
5U!?tI  I'[) VOT& FOr<  Y&5, IT'S TIM& FOR A  TH& PO/..L.., A/.AS, WAS NOT  
HIM. ANYON& 7HAT  OIANG&. I THINK M05T  ADJU5TW FOR. ~ARCASM  
GOOD LOOKING MI.ET  WOM&N WANT A REAUY  
5TANP FOR REAUY 6001? THINGS. I  HOT GUY 7D 88 IN CHARGt3 OF TH& COUNTRY. /  OH 8{Jf, OH 80Y!  
0  

opportunity to tell your Student Gov­ernment leaders your feelings, sugges­Dear Editor: tions and ideas. We cannot guarantee 
Section 18, row 23, seat 26. In case any drastic overhauls, but we can you're wondering what those ticket guarantee your place to be heard. numbers are, they are assigned as my seat during the Michigan game. I have On Friday, Sept. 9, SMC Student Gov­six other tickets with similar numbers ernment will be hosting an open student on them, but none are the same. Yes, forum in Haggar College Center from in those seats, I can see ''Touchdown 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. This forum will be Jesus" as the offense scores. However, an opportunity for students to express I'm not going to be sitting with my their concerns by giving their input. friends or the student body, but with alumni. I'll be missing out on the spirit Mter a successful Activities Night at that the student body shares as it stands St. Mary's with 74 clubs and organiza­together during games, but I can watch tions participating and hosting over 600 it from the other side. I realize that as students, we know this campus is alive a freshman, I'm not going to get good with interested students. Student Gov­tickets, but having tickets on the other ernment and the Student Activities side of the stadium is ludicrous. Why Board are beginning to break down the did the ticket office run out of regular misconception that they are unap­student tickets? Good planning? Let's proachable. We realize the mutual re­face it, they know how many students sponsibility between students and their go to college here and have guaranteed Student Government to be responsive seats. Most students will be seated in to one another. sections 28-36, but why can't sections one and two also be used for student We hope therefore that you take ad­tickets? So far from my two weeks here vantage of a free snowcone once in a at Notre Dame, it seems like no one in while or attend a Club Tuesday held power can plan anything right, from every month. Or come talk with us so the alcohol policy to the honor code to this communication between Student sports. Government and the students we rep­
John Slankas resent can continue. In the wake of 
Pangborn Hall Freshman Elections and Voter 
Sept. 4, 198 Registration, don't let your vote be your 
only voice. 
SMC government Julie Parrish Student Body President
plans open forum 
Lisa M. Hill Vice President for Student Affairs Dear Editor: Christy Wolfe As St. Mary's students we always Vice President for Academic Affairs have something to say. Whether it be Sept. 7, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Do  not  forsake  an  old  
friend,  for the  new  will  not  
compare  to  him.  A  new  

friend is as new wine; when it grows old, you will drink it with pleasure." 
Sirach 10: 14-15 
------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Viewpoint
Thursday, September 8, 1988 

Protest will not nullify Alcohol Po 1 
Did the Adminstration's new 1988-89 campus to get a date? Is nothing sa­Selfish complaints aside, anyone who Alcohol Policy catch anyone else as off­cred? has been to an SYR can empathize with guard as it did me? Or were you former Put mildly, the University's handling freshmen who are missing out on the terested in regaining support for SYR's Howard residents used to it by now? of the entire situation was not the true SYR experience. By this, I don't and also providing other activities to After finally sifting through the as­smoothest. Most of us did learn of the mean drinking until you get sick and further enhance social life on campus. sorted rumors and determining what policy by word of mouth. Granted, the passing out on your date. I do mean King emphasized that anyone with fun the new rules actually are, the resulting attitude toward knowingly supplying finally getting up the nerve to ask some­ideas for group dorm events talk to feeling around campus does not seem alcohol to minors is justified. Since all one special to an event that is sure to their hall presidents about organizing to be Dne of great joy. If we complain 50 states now see 21 as the legal drink­be a fun time. Roaming the halls, stop­them. or protest, we will probably find our­ing age, it is logical that Notre Dame's ping at the bars, checking out the And finally, maybe it would be ben­selves with even fewer privileges than toleration had to fall in line. Yet is it decorations, getting acquainted with eficial to step and remind ourselves of before. We all somehow know that, not hypocritical that Indiana has had your date, socializing, heading to the the many other things there are to ap­even though life does not revolve 21 as the legal drinking age since dance floor after losing some inhibi­preciate about this University. Football around alcohol, our social lives will Prohibition was lifted, and the Univer­tions. To be sure, SYR's still have the season, and seven home games, is now never again be the same. sity has just now gotten around to com­potential to be enjoyable, but we can upon us. There will be no shortage of 
plying? Wouldn't it have been beter to all imagine a scenario where a bunch fun, food, and beverage on thoseAnne Hebenstreit justify an alcohol policy with basis in of people are crowded into one room, weekends. For the time being, we can law when the law was first in place? leaving occasionally to grab a bite to appreciate the outdoors--the lakes, the guest column And isn't it even more hypocritical that eat or maybe go to the bathroom. Grotto, the sunshine, and the trees. We while students are not allowed to drink It is extremely easy to complain all have the opportunity to take part in alcohol in the hallway outside their about the entire situation. Yet all of us, daily and Sunday masses within our The first reaction for most of us was room, just a few feet inside their own halls. There is no problem finding that something other than our room­four walls they can drink as much as "If we do not support someone any time to play basketball mate had been screwed. No alcohol to they want, as long as it does not become and attend the revised with, or tennis, cr a round of golf. We be served at SYR's, leaving drinking public? have also at our disposal an in­
version of SYR's, they
(and socializing) to be done in our Not only was the transition handled numerable number of professors who rooms? Mandatory 70 percent partici­abruptly and without sensible justifica­may disappear entirely." are willing to drop everything and help 
.. pation in order for the SYR to take tion, student privileges were denied and us deal with our difficulties in their place? I'm hard pressed to think of one no alternatives were proposed. Last especially upperclassmen, have an ob­classes. of my classes wher~:. there is 70 percent spring, the Task Force on the Use and ligation to ourselves and to others to These are just a few of the positive attendance (at least on Fridays), and Abuse of Alcohol suggested several im­make the best of the situation. If we do aspects of our lives here at Notre we're not paying $10,000 for that mediate alternatives to social life in not support and attend the revised ver­Dame. We have just been given one of privilege. We found that not only were their recommendations to the Univer­sion of SYR's, they may disappear en­the few negative aspects, the new Al­SYR's affected. After a few chilling sity. Among these were increased tirely. If we all open our minds a little, cohol Policy. It has been handed down rumors that all tailgaters were banned, availability of recreational facilities on we may even come up with come pos­to us, and we are left to accept it grace­we were at least relieved to learn that campus, legal lighting for outdoor bas­itive additions to SYR's. The price of fully, or to see what is left of our social only ones sponsored by students are ketball courts, greater opportunities to tickets will be lower, so higher atten­lives to disappear. If we fail to give it prohibited. And, not least, my favorite socialize on campus, alternate uses for dance may even be easier to attain. our support, we should remember that rule: no punch, even non-alcoholic, at Stepan Center, and development of our Hall sections could contribute extra a totally dry campus is not an parties. All right, maybe students can "park-like campus" for concerts and money and sponsor section dinners impossible fate. The challenge lies live with that --after all, beer is outdoor cafe/coffeehouse settings. All before the dance, to allow for a group ahead of us, and if we do not find a way America's drink, not Kool-Aid. But great ideas, but what has been done? activity. to accept it, we really will end up shoot­SYR's? Did they really have to take And so what are we to do? More There are also probably other posi­ing pool with our dates. away much of the social aspect of one movies? Ask a date to play football or tive social alternatives to SYR's that Ann Hebenstreit is a junior govern­of the few true opportunities on this pool? . have not yet been thought of. Tom King, ment and economics major 
Abortion issue more than black and white 
A recent Observer article called for source of the Church's teaching be be more acceptable approach to the issue. mother) are placed in higher regardthe issue of abortion to be discussed "In properly investigated. If we look to Based originally upon the arguments than the proven rights of the living (the light of the authoritative teaching of the Holy Scripture as the Church's first of Rabbinical authorities during the term "living" being defined here as church." In response to this challenge, source of knowledge, not only do we Talmudic era (who collectively ac­those knowingly in possession of souls),I seek to point out the source of such come out empty-handed, but we also cepted Aristotle's view that the soul is Church documents like the one written teaching; to question the ability of find contradiction to the "murderous" conferred upon the body at the moment by the Second Vatican Council are those individuals who proclaim as truth accusations made bv church leaders of conception, which lies in accord with made paradoxical in nature. Inevitab­that which still remains uncertain in concerning the act of abortion itself. the Exodus passage) all three branches ly, a choice does have to be made con­light of physical, philosophical, and There is but one source in the entire agree that therapeutic abortions may cerning the issue. Biblical evidence; and to additionally Bible (Old and New Testaments com­be permitted when the life of the mother As Christians, we are called to be dis­question the authority of those who bined) that specifically relates to abor­is physically endangered by preg­ciples of Christ, to follow His teachings, make moral decisions that affect others tion, the conclusion of which states that nancy, and that (particularly in cases and to be compassionate towards upon the premise of their own assump­the destruction of the fetus cannot be of adultery) abortions for the sake of others less fortunate than ourselves. tions. deemed murder. Exodus 21:22 reads: convenience are inexcusable. Conser­But according to some, we are led to 
"If people, when brawling, hurt a preg­vative and Reform branches addition­believe that someone who disbelieves
Richard Hunt 
nant woman and she suffers a miscar­ally concur that the practice be permit­in official Catholic teaching on abortion 
riage but no further harm is done, the ted when the mother's life is mentally has renounced God and stumbled into guest column person responsible will pay compensa­endangered by pregnancy, and also in moral blindness. But what kind of man,tion as· fixed by the woman's master, cases of rape and incest.. Do these al­professing himself to be a Christian,Contrary to the first point of discus­paying as much as the judges decide. lowances, liberal by official Church would willingly and knowingly force his sion, there is no current debate (at least If further harm is done, however, you standards, make abortion an "easy wife, daughter, or loved one to carryin educated circles) concerning when will award life for life." way out" or an "easy decision?" Of through the final term of pregnancy the life begins. It is but rather an age-old Catholic teaching on abortion is nei­course not. But it does reflect a more child of an attacker? Does he disobey query involving when the soul enters ther founded upon the Laws of Moses responsible, sensible attitude than that the will of his own conscience merelythe body, modern science having nor upon the recorded Gospels of Jesus of blind faith and constant adherence to satisfy an edict written by someone already proven the fetus to be a living Christ. It instead coincides with the to a set of impersonable rules. far distant and removed, so as not to organism from the moment of fertiliza­supportive teachings of the Greek phi­Catholics believing in the moral per­break with the formalities of Catholic 
tion. But is the living fetus a separate losopher Plato, who argued that the missiveness of abortion under certain tradition? Reason stands that he would entity from the mother, in and of itself? soul was conferred upon the body at the circumstances may take comfort in the not, if the man in fact is reasonable. Were the Stoics proper in their assess­moment of conception. It is upon this fact that their beliefs are not entirely For the choice of any individual on the ment that the soul enters the body fol­contingency that Church doctrine has inconsistent with Christianity. They specific question of abortion is not one lowing birth, or is the Roman Catholic developed and endured up to and are, however, entirely inconsistent with of performing an evil to bring about a Church right in its assumption that the through the present century. the beliefs of Plato and the established good, but is rather one involving that soul enters the body at the moment of The three major modern branches of dogma of the Roman Catholic Church. having to choose between the lesser of conception? Judaism (Orthodox, Conservative, and When the theoretical rights of the un­two evils in a very gray area. 
If one is to answer this latter question Reform) reflect an attitude towards born (especially in cases when the un­satisfactorily and thereby without abortion which may, upon the review born child serves as an aggressor that Richard Hunt is a sophomore enrolled doubt, it should be suggested that the of the discerning Catholic, provide a threatens its own life and that of its in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Editoral Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager ............................ John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................ ............... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager...... .. ...... Linda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shi~s 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager .. . ............ Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager........ . .......... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 


·Accent
Thursday, September 8, 1988 page 9 
esc offers service to community 
Matthew Spatz accent writer 
T 
he Center for Social Con­cerns. For some students, the name conjures visions of peace-loving, long-haired liberals protesting the killing of whales. For others, the center may be a place where the nuns work. Still others may call it the Commie Cafe. More likely, the name CSC doesn't mean anything to us because we have never both­ered to take a look inside. In fact, many students don't even know where it is. 
The truth is that the center offers something crucial to the lives of Notre Dame stu­dents and staff. It allows them to practice what they preach. In addition, it pro­vides a service to the sur­rounding community. 
The official mission of the center is to "integrate justice and peace concerns into everyday life through forma­tive educational experience." Kathy Royer, coordinator for service and social action groups, said, "We try to ta~e students into the South Bend and other communities to give exposure to different set­tings." In addition, "We give them a chance to think about and talk about their experi­ence." 
There are over twenty-five student-run groups that work with the CSC. They includes Amnesty International, Wo­men United for Justice and Peace, Community for the International Lay Apostulate <CILA), Right to Life, and many others. "The groups are fueled by student ener­gy," said Royer. "The center acts as a support system, pro­viding resources and moral support." 
Two new groups this year are particularly interesting because they are very much alive in the South Bend area. Food Share picks up left-over food from the Notre Dame dining halls and brings it to soup kitchens in South Bend. Another group, affiliated with the national organization, is Habitat for Humanity. Through actions of the group, two houses in South Bend are being renovated by students for families that would other­wise be homeless. 
Perhaps the group enjoying the most support by students is the Neighborhood Study Help Program <NSHP) which provides students with the chance to tutor children of all grade levels in the area. But 


Richard Thornburgh 
One More Thing 

me nightmares even worse than the time I dug into Grandma's asparagus pie before bedtime when I was seven. 
That loft deserved to be ranked among the wonders of the modern world for defying the Law of Gravity, and I deserved an Oscar for selling it to some suckers the next year. 
I don't know how folks manage in those new-fangled high-rises on the East side, but in the old dorms, lofts are 
Calvin and Hobbes 
where his hand is holding it in the back. Never give a drill to a philosophy major. It's a sure recipe for disaster. Also, avoid psychology majors during loft building. They can't resist trying to put square objects in the bolt 
holes. 
There really should be some kind of contest for death defying lofts on campus. I mean, why not? There's a contest for every­thing else here. The winner could get a year's worth of 

10 Q\J\£N FRAGG ... froND f.\ER MIG\-\T'i SIA"It. Or \\~S"It.Rif>. ... 
I 


there are many other ways for students to help. For in­stance, the Council for the Retarded helps integrate clients of the Logan Center into the community, and vol­unteers for the Overnight Shelter for the Homeless spend a night to help feed and clothe the homeless. 
This is the Year of Cultural Diversity, and the center is trying to support it with events such as hospitality lunches. Sept. 16 will feature 

The art of loftmaking 
free life insurance, and maybe there would be a cof­fin for the runner-up. I think the prize last year would have gone to some friends of mine who cut all their 4x4 supports and then discovered that their measuring tape was missing the first foot. So they simply tacked on an extra foot of lumber to each piece, and I'm still amazed that they're walking around campus without crutches. 
Now that these contraptions are up for another year, it's fun to look around at different ones and estimate how many cold ones were consumed during the construction phase. Let's face it--drinking and building just don't mix. There should be a law against it, but I'm sure du Lac is a step ahead of us. 
I've finally gotten over my freshman loft anxiety, but the scars remain for life. This year I'm sitting pretty in a 2x4 temple that won't budge, probably because I had noth­ing to do with its construc­tion. When I arrived in sunny 
Bill Watterson 

a Hispanic lunch with Mexican and Spanish food, dancers, and music. The money raised will go to La Casa in South Bend. "Cultural diversity is something we really want to work on this year," said Royer. 
"This year, we really want for students to give us a try,'' Royer said. "For students who don't want their lives to be completely consumed by it, we want them to get a taste of what we are about." 
We always hear so much about the Notre Dame family, but many of us are missing the opportunity to put into practice the Christian ideals of service we have been brought up believing. The Center for Social Concerns offers this opportunity, and it may be worth the five-minute walk over to the esc building to find out about it. By the way, it's that little one with the picnic tables next to the library. 


South Bend, I had the singu­credit for it, but it comforts lar experience of being me when I fall asleep to think greeted by a completed loft that even after World War and a roommate blotched III, our loft will stand among with stain and hammer the rubble for the cock­bruises. I can't take any roaches to enjoy.

VFI. lop 1 
Albums

1. 
SHRIEKBACK Go Bang! 

2. 
CAMPER VAN BEE­THOVEN Our Beloved 6. UB40 UB40 Revolutionary Sweetheart 7. IGGY POP lnstince 

3. 
HOT HOUSE FLOWERS 8. MICHELLE SHOCKED People Short! Sharp! Shocked! 

4. 
JESUS AND MARY 9. PSYCHEDELIC FURS CHAIN Barbed Wire Kisses All of This and Nothing 

5. 
JOY DIVISION Sub­10. SCREAMING TRIBES­stance MEN Bones and Flowers 


ne night during my0 freshman year, I awoke with a terrifying thought. "I'm suspended seven feet above the floor on a few sticks held together by chewing gum, paper clips, and prayers that were built by a business major from Pit­tsburgh. That's scary. It gave a must unless you want to stand on the sink to dress. However, this leads to a prob­lem: major construction at the hands of college intellec­tuals. 
It never ceases to amaze me when I walk around the dorm and see someone drill­ing a hole into a board right 



page 10 The Observer 
n.a..-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Centlll', accepts classified lldwrtising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Hauv-Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five characteB Pllf day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORD PROCESSING 237-1949 
TEXTBOOKS--Bought & Sold--Books for ALL classes still available! UN· BEAT ABLE PRICES!!! Pandora's Books 808 Howard St., just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 
\ LOST/FOUND ) 
FOUND: one Honda key in D-2, some­time on Friday. If you can identity the model and color of your car, you can have your key back. Don't be surprised if there are a few more miles on your car. Just kidding. Call Bill at x1407. 
FouNo;·RE-TA:iNeR.iN'soiiTii'oiNiNa 
HALL. ASK FOR CLAUDINE IN SOUTH DINING HALL. 
LOST/STOLEN Did you or perhaps your roommate acquire a slighffy worn pair of VASQUE MONTANA HIKING BOOTS (Brown with red laces, size 100) on Stu­dent Activities Night at Stephen Center? If so, they are MINE and I WANT THEM BACK!!! If you do decide to keep them, don't plan on wearing them on campus tor a least the next 2 years. These boots are easily identified, even at a distance, and I will be looking for them. Save your heanh, turn them in to Lost and Founp-No questions asked. Any information, call Shawn 271-0758 substantial reward of· fared for the recovery of the boots 3ndtlr the person who stole them. 
i'i:os:r·;;;;·i~i;;;;;;;d;~i;·;;;·~~;~·s;;;;k·ii;;~ 
blue one) in O'SHAG AM 117 or maybe at the Library. The first two chapters were boring but I'd like it back anyway. Bill x1436 
i:osriN.Noi-i·S5;;;;;,;·;;:ruoENr.io·A·No 
DETEX. PLEASE CALL MARY BETH AT 1825 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 255·36841.188·0955 
FURNISHED HOMES & ROOMS FOR RENT.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
Efficiency apt. near N.D. $160 & $140 mo. Call 25~4943. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAKFAST. Just 20 mlns. from NO. Ideal for all ND activities. Reserve now. 616-471-5711. 
Nice turn. home. Safe area near N.D. 287 ·6389·683·8889 
4 bedroom house. Nice neighborhood. $400. 288·3613. ··························· 
ROOM AVAILABLE JUST OFF ANGELA 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY for game weekends. 21~291·7153 
WANTED 
STUDENT BANDS TO PLAY AT DOWN­TOWN BAR. WE PAY WELL. CONTACT PETE BEFORE 2 P.M. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY AT 289·8031 OR SEAN AT 289·1021 AFTER 6 P.M. 
N.D. administrator's kids (ages 6 e 7) need sitter. T and Th. 2:30-4:30. $5-llr. Mike x7943. 
Needed: ND-SMC student to babysit for children of Scripture Study Group mem­bers at St. Joe Church one morning a week (9·11) for appr. 5-6 wks. starting in Oct. Transportation provided. Call 277· 9882 for more info. 
RIDE OFFERED TO PITT EXITS, I.U.P. LEAVE 9A.M!B, RETURN !V12-SB CALL JIM, 1935 
RELIABLE SMC Student for delivery of CHICAGO TRIBUNE & USA TODAY SMC·GOOD $$$ & X-MAS BONUS-call MATT 277-1859 
UNIV PIZZA DLVY·Now Hiring Drivers & Store Help! Good Pay, Flexible Hours! Apply 18055 St Ad 23 or call 277 ·8889 
Cocktail Wartresses Variety of shifts, will work around classes,good money. Apply at Ramada Inn of South Bend. 
SEX! Now that I have your attention, I will offer ANYTHING but this for 4 GA tickets to the ND·Pur(don't) game Sept. '24. PLEASE HELP! Call Brett at 263­
2850. 
N.D. Hockey is looking for an organist for home hockey games. Candidates should be imaginative and spontaneous with a good repertoire of popular music. Interested? Call tha hockey office 239­
5227. 
FOR SALE 
CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CALL FOR FACTS TODAY. 602-637·3401. EXT. 881 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, ORA 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272·5959 ANYTIME. 
························································ 
For Sale 1980 Honda Civic $600 call288· 9666 
HARMAN1<ardon 333c receiver, 20 walls per channel & Technics SL-1300 auto­matic direct drive turntable. $125 a piece. 232·8161. 
FOR SALE Apple lie Computer wl exter­nal disk, mOdem, mouse and all software needed. $750 OBO Call Bob at x1432 after 6pm for information. 
ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS Round trip ticket from South Bend to L.l. Airport leaving HY15 and returning 1003 for sale. Price negotiable call Sean. 272­1089. 
APPLE MACINTOSH 512K WITH 400K EXTERNAL DRIVE AND DIGITIZER:$700 300BPS APPLE MODEM:$50 ·OR BEST OFFER· X2445 
TICKETS 
I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & All HOME GAME TIXS.272-6306 
I want Michigan tix!lllllllllllllllll Lots of them for BIG $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 287-3311 DAYS 7-5. 
MSU TIX For sale and trade Mike S. # 
******************* 
I have FOUR Michigan tickets to trade tor FOUR Miami tickets. Please call ASAP if interested. Call Karen x2722. 
HELP!! NEED THREE MICHIGAN GA'S. ANYTHING YOU WANT. CALL SAM AT 259-6337. 
I NEED 2 TICKETS My family is coming into town for the Michigan game. Please help me find them a place in the stands! Call me at 272·5535, ask for Michelle 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X2743 
HELP I NEED 2 MICH GA'S. WILL PAY BIG$$$$. CALL TOM 1856 
I NEED THREE GA'S FOR THE RICE GAME! PLEASE CALL X2743 
MICHIGAN MICHIGAN NEED 10 GA'S MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI NEED 12 GA'S CALL GARRETT 287-5871 
WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN GA'S ... TOP $$$PAUL (616)-926-2986. 
I NEED MICH TIX CALL MIKE 4113 
MY BRO SUFFERED THRU THE FUZZV ERAI IS THERE A MICH TIX FOR HIM? BILL x4640 
HEY! I NEED A TICKET TO THE MICHIGAN GAMEl WHAT ELSE IS NEW, RIGHT? CALL CHRISTINA AT 2759. 
The epitaph on my father's grave will read: My only regret in life is that Notre Dame couldn't play Purdue TWICE a year, so that we could watch them lose twice as often. Help him watch stinking 
P.U. lose at least in football. Need TWO G.A.'s for the P.U. game (Sept.24). Please call Beth x1264. 
Is anyone up for a ROADTRIP?? How about watching Notre Dame crush Navy? For TWO tickets, call Beth x1264 (Will also trade for TWO Purdue tix) 
WE WILL TRADE MICH AND STANF GA TIX FOR MIAMI TIX. CALL 684-1304. 
TICKETS NEEDED BADLY. FAMILY COMING FOR PURDUE GAME. GA'S AND STUDENT TIX WANTED. WILLING TO PAY GOOD $$$. CALL TOM AT X2742. 
MIGH. TIX FOR SALE CALL 2871 BEST OFFER 
GOOD MONEY OFFERED FOR 2 GA'S TO ANY NO HOME GAME. CALL GRETCHEN X4805 
HELP! I NEED 2 GA TIXI! ANY GAME EXCEPT AIR FORCE. I have 3 A.F. to trade or pey $$$$ CALL KATHY X4208 OR 4279 
NEED 3 GA AIRFORCE tx call 2724 NEED 2 GA's TO MIAMI & 2 GA's TO PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$$$$ BRIAN 272·0291 
HELPII NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S. WILL PAY BIG $. CALL 284·4099 OR 284­5455 
Need 2 Mich tix Stud or Ga Call Kevin 
288-9303 
JUST SELL ME YOUR TICKETS NEED 4 for PURDUE, MIAMI # -± dl>-'" 
******************* 
ATTENTION, ATTENTION, ATTENTION !!Ill Desperately need three student tick· ets or GAs for the Michigan game for friends from New Mexico who have never been here. Will pay goOd money. Please call Mike at 1661. 
TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN AND WE WILL LOOK AT ANY OFFER. CALL 277-7260 AND LEAVE AMES· SAGE IF WE ARE NOT AROUND. THEY'RE FOR RECENT ALUMS AND THEY CAN USE STUDENTS OR GA'S, SO CALL !!!!!!! TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX TIX 
I NEED 2 MICH GAS CALL X2281 
WILL TRADE 2 TICKETS FOR MIAMI OR PURDUE FOR 2 GOOD TICKETS TO MICHIGAN, AIR FORCE OR PENN STATE. PHONE DAVE, DAYS AT (419) 626·0025 
NEE·o·2··puRoue GA:s:·wi·li··p·~·y· good 
$ OR will trade ANY STUDENT TICKET PLUS CASH for them. Give me a calli Melissa X4341 or X4553. 
·························· 
NEEDED 1 student or GA for Mich call Chris 277-7384 
My relatives decided yesterday to come down for the Mich. Game. Please help me lind them tickets. I want to stay in the Family. Ready to talk$$$$. Call MIKE 1089 
I NEED 2 TIX TO MICHIGAN GAME. NEED NOT BE TOGETHER. GA'S OR STUDENTTIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT. CALL BRAD x4245 
MY BRO,THE RECENT NO GRAD, SOMEHOW THOUGHT IT GOT EASIER TO GET TIX TO THE OPENER. ALUMNI ARE ALL ALIKE. GIVE HIM A BREAK AND SELL ME 2 TIX TO THE MICH GAME. CALL ELLIE AT X4678. 
I HAVE MICH. TIX.... WILLING TO TRADE 2 GA's of MICH. FOR 2 MIAMI GA's OR 2 STANFORD GA's. I MAY EVEN SELL THEM Wbut TRADING. SO CALL 272·9136 ASK FOR SUZV. TIX TIX TIX TIX 
NEED ONE STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX, 277·2944 KAREN $$$$ 
NEED STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICH. GAMEl!! CALL MATT X2054 
................................................................ 
NEED 1 MICH TIX WILL TRADE 1 STUD MIAMI CALL KURT X3626 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE; CALL ROGELIO 277·4416 
FOR SALE 1 TICKET FOR MIAMI GAME. SOLD TO HIGHEST BIDDER. CALL 3534 CECELIA 
MY FUTURE AT THIS SCHOOL DEPENDS ON YOUR HELP (SERIOUSL Yl) DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 4 STANFORD GA'S. WILL PAY OR TRADE AIR FORCE OR RICE GA'S. CALL MAUREEN 284·5052. 
U OF MICH GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OF­FER. EVES CALL LIZ 284·5328. 
NEED2GA'STOEITHER PENN STATE OR RICE. MONEY ABSOLUTELY NO PROBLEM. CALL 284·4404.ALSO WILL TRADE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI. 
NEED 2 MICH TIX-STUD. OR GA. 284· 5089 
NEED 2 MICH TIX-STUD. OR GA. 277­1513. 
$$$ FOR 1·4 MICH TICKETS. CALL VERY EARLY OR LATE ANYTIME 288· 1643. 
Will trade 2 Miami tickets for 2 Michigan tix Interested? Call Jen x4354 
PLEASE HELPI I need 2 PURDUE GA's and 5 PENN STATE GA's. WILL PAY! DAVID x4245 
•................................................................ 
Need 1 stud Mich ticket Dave 4681 
I NEED MICH GA OR STUDENT TICKET (WILL TRADE A PURDUE TICKET FOR ONE OR WILL PAY $$$)111 CALL BERT X2955. 
································································ 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL TINA 4852. 
i-i'Ei:;;·;·i··~~;;d-o'NE..ii~k~i·;~;··ij;~ ..;;;ic~ 
HIGAN GAMEl $$$ Call Kim x4420 
MICH TIX 1 GA 50 yrd ln.,1 STUD. 
LEAVE OFFER AT X3201 BO's by 8:00 pm TONITEI WILL INFORM OWNER BETWEEN 8&9pm 
Need 1 Michigan tic. Student or G.A. Will pay mediocre bucks. Call 40~8 
·······························:················:·····:········· 

I HAVE 4 PENN STATE GA'S! I WANT 4 PITT GA'S! Want to trade? Call Amy at 271-9885. 
NEED 2·4 MSU TIX; GA'S OR STU· DENTS. CALL AMY-·271-9885. 
NEEo···1···MiCH···r·~c .. WiLL···auy···aR 
TRADE WI PURD, STAN, OR RICE X3417 
BADLY NEEDED: 2 tickets to ND-MSU Sept. 17th Call collect 312·541-4595 Thanks. 
i-~~;d·2·;;;;~;;;;;:;;~~·;;;··ii~k~;~:·c-~,j'~i: 
lect 718 631 5871 p.m. or 516 271 8500 
a.m. or Write 1 Bay Club Dr. APT 12U,West Bayside NY 11360 
I NEED JUST ONE MICHIGAN TICKET. CAN YOU HELP ME, PLEASE?! CALL X1297 
NEEo..2..(3;\:~·-F'o'Fi ..AiR..Fo.Fic·e··c;;;.LL 
ANN 284·4043 
iiei:Piii....l...oesP.eR·;.:;:E'l.v...NEEo...2 
PURDUE GA'S. PLEASE CALL PEGGY AT SMC X5494 
NEED t-3 GA'S OR STUD. MICHIGAN TIX. CALL MARTY AT x1104. 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS! WILL DO ANYTHING WITHIN ETHICAL AND LE· GAL LIMITS TO GET MIAMI STUDS OR GA'S CALL SHARON! # 
******************* 
Do you need student tickets? Call 2753 or 2775734 
2 Mich tixs for sale 272-6306 
LET MY DAD SEE''THE''iRiS'H CRUSH 
HIS ALMA MATER· SELL ME 2 PURDUE GAs! CALL HOLLY x2956 
HELP! I need ONE STUDENT PURDUE TICKET, am willing to trade one AIR FORCE TICKET. Call Allison, 263·3736. 
........................... 

SELLING 1 MICH G.A. call Karen 3552 
HELP! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR M&D. $$$ NIC X2870 
Michigan Tlx Avallable!ll Call only if you have $$$ to spend and are willing to make a call to the U.of 
M. Otherwise, forget it. Call Cameron O'Sas at 3346, and make a generous offer. Don't waste our time! 
HELP I NEED 2STANFORD AND 2 RICE G.A.'sl!l!!! CALL DIEDRA AT 277·1416 
ANYONEIII! I need ONE--only ONE·· ticket for ANY gamell I won't be picky! ONE ticket for ANY game!! x4053 ask for Colleen THANKS A MILLION!!!!! 
Are you looking for Michigan tix? Will trade 2 Mich. fo• 2 Miami tix! call 2805 & ask for Kellyanne. 
............................................................. DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME . CALL ERIN AT 3757. 
I NEED LOTS OF STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE PURDUE GAME. CALL JILL AT X1302. 
NEED TO TRADE 1 Purdue GA for 1 Stanford GA Call Carolyn X3799 
PERSONALS 
I DESPERATELY need 5 GA's for Mic· higan. I can get by with 2 of those as student tix. My family is willing to pay a lot of$$$$$. Please call T.J. at 283-1637. 
My family -From MIAMI· wants to see the Irish blow away the CANES Don't let them down II need 4 tickets tor the MIAMI game. Money$$$$ is no object -at all. Call Paul x1847 anytime. 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING ORGANIZE OR INTERESTED IN JOINING THE N.D. SKYDIVING CLUB CALL DEAN 287·3024 
COME AND SEE MATT KING'S ORGAN RECITAL THURSDAY AT 8 IN SACRED HEART, 112 HR. 
ORDER THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE for on-campus delivery-call 277 ·1859 
ORDER USA TODAY delivered to your dorm door. CALL 277·1859 
HELPII need to get home next weekend. If you are going anywhere near Detroit please give me a call. DAN 1182 
~~~d-~~;·ii-~'k~i·;~;··si;~;~;d·g~;;;~:·c~l, 
Tom X3285. Will pay big $ 
GEORGE MICHAELS TIXI! See him live 
99. Call 2022 fast! 
SWAP I will swap any of my student tick­ets for one student ticket to the Michigan game or I will pay $$$ for one. Please call 2266 ask for Rna. 
•••soPHOMORES-Take a MOONUGHT CRUISE on Lake Michigan Thurs. Sept 15, $15 (tr•na. Incl.) Sign upa M-W, 3-Spm In Soph. 
Clasa office (2nd Fl. Lafortune) Hur­ryll! Space Limited! •••soPHOMORES-
CLUB TED is coming ... CLUB TED is coming ... CLUB TED is coming ... 
SORRY!! THEODORE'S WILL BE CLOSED SATURDAY NIGHT DUE TO THE MICHIGAN GAME. WE WILL BE OPEN FRIDAY FOR DANCING AND SUNDAY FOR NFL SPORTS VIEWING, THOUGH. COME AND JOIN US!! 
DUKAKIS·BENTSEN 1988 There will be a meeting for all interested Thursday, September 8 at 6:30 pm in 116 O'Shag Questions call : Mark x1177 
THE UNDERGROUND Grand reopening Friday night affer Pep Rally PRESENTS real ROCK-n-ROLL at NO AUSTIN Live music from 9:00 pm • 1 :30 am basement of Grace Hall THE UNDERGROUND 
CHRIS DONNELLY FOR CILA PRESI· DENT AND DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE 
CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHENANIGANS 277-1727 
CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHANANIGANS -1727 
WVFI Engineering There will be a meeting Thursday Sept. 8 6:30pm In WVFI's studios 200 Lafortune lor ell those who are Interested. No experi­ence needed!!! Questions? Call 23~ 6888 
NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. CALL MIKE AT 289-6623 
PAT BURNS ALL-AMERICAN, WHAT A GUY. HUGS AND KISSES, KB 
KAREN GREEN YOU DON'T HAVE TO READ OTHER PEOPLE'S PERSONALS BECAUSE NOW YOU HAVE ONE OF YOUR OWN: SO NICE WEATHER WE'RE HAVING HUNHII J.S. 
SOUND EPIDEMIC If music's a problem, we're the cure 
SOUND EPIDEMIC If music's a problem, we're the cure Disc jockey for all occasions 283·1765 
WEAR GREEN!!!!! 
This Saturday the Irish take on Michigan and every true IRISH fan will be decked out from head to toe in GREEN!!!! WEAR GREEN! 
WEAR GREEN' 
WEAR GRE~N! 

G 0 I A ISH IIIII! 
YES, SHE'S EATING AGAIN! let's go gat some Ice tea at AlAR'S! (What's lead tea?) DO YOU WANT A BLACK 3" PIPE TO DECORATE YOUR APART· MENT? It's art, really It's art! Do you want to make circles In the sand just one more time? Feel lha cool breeze at the end of a pier overlooking tha water? Whatever you do, promise me something: That you'll pitch that baseball cap In the trashcan! Can you still feel It wearing two? Is It just a crush? or more? Think of tha many locations we've triad!! If this doesn't do 11...1 willI 
Happy Birthday Love, Beautiful 
Bacchanalia Society· The Choice of A New Generation 
FATHERS! LOCK UP YOUR DAUGHTERS! ITS TIME FOR THE 69th ANNUAL DILLON PEP RALLY 8:15 IN RONT OF DILLON D I L L 0 N P E P A A L L Y DILLON HALL PEP RALLY 1st HOME GAME OF SEASON JOIN IN THE TRADITIONIIIJ DILLON PEP RALLY DILLON PEP RALLY 
DILLON PEP RALLY 
DILLON HALL PEP RALLY DILLON'S VERSION OF TRADITIONAL FOOTBALL PEP RALLY DILLON PEP RALLY 
DILLON PEP RALLY DO NOT ATTEND IF PREGNANT OR WEAK HEARTED 8:15 TOIGHT IN FRONT OF DILLON 
ANNUAL DILLON PEP RALLY DILLON PEP RALLY DILLON PEP RALLY DILL 0 N P E P A ALLY 
8:15 TONIGHT IN FRONT OF DILLON 
DILLON PEP RALLY TONIGHT 8:15 IN CLASSIC DILLON STYLE FEATURING NOTABLE PLAYERS AND COACH STEWART WITH TRADI· TIONAL DILLON FLARE DILLONPEPRALLY 
What thay are saying about Notre Dame students: ''I've never seen such a spirited bunch. That's why I stayed in the Indiana Na­tional Guard. I was hoping to get some tickets for the Miami game but George is taking them instead." --Dan Quale. 
"What's a student? Do we have them? Am I one of them?"-Demetrious Brown. 
"If they wear green, we are dead. Simple as that." -Big Bad Bo Schemblechler. 
LET'S SHOW THESE PEOPLE WHAT WE ARE All ABOUT!!!! WEAR GREEN, GREEN, AND MORE GREEN ON SATURDAY. LET'S BRING BACK THE IRISH SPIRIT THAT KEPT DAN IN INDIANA. 
G 0 IRISH 11!111 
I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE GEORGE WINSTON--IF YOU HAVE ANY EXTRA TICKETS, PLEASE CALL MELISSA 2756 
Hey KATE· the Pittsburgh Pied Piper ol P.E.!!! Usually poeple go to the first rehearsal. CONGRADULATIONS (you dark)!!! 
·····················:t······················ 
DON'T WORRY. BE HAPPY. 
LOST IN NOH ~: MY STUD. ID AND DETEX. PLEASE CALL MARY BETH AT 1825 
LONG ISLAND STUDENTS LOND ISLAND STUDENTS LONG ISLAND STUDENTS Otcoursethere's a Fall Break Bus!!! More tmportantly, we'llleave after the Irish blow away the Hurricanes and we'll be back in time to witness the Falcons shot down. We'll have lots to celebrate on board, hence we'll be immersed in party "spirits". Hurry, space is limited to 49 people. Cost: $80 round tnp ($45 one way). Call Lou (x1433) ... ONLY A DORK WOULD FLY!!! 
The children really are our future .. 
HEY, THE PRES. OF THE WINDSURF· lNG CLUBCALL JOHN AT 283·3349. I WANT TO JOIN THE CLUB. THANKS. 
MIKE BASILE: WHERE IS MY LETTER? I'M WAITING BREATHLESSLY... 
LAURA LINDA & MO: Thanks soooooo much for making my b-day so great! You guys are S the best evert (Have you ever had an EVER?) And to everyone else who helped make my day so great • 
THANKS! (I really was surprised!) And last, but not least, thanks to Dave and Dave for the wonderful shot • I'll always remember it! I love you guys! Luv, Kel 
····························-·· 
BORED AND PUKING FROM R.E.M. 
O.D. brash keys & lethal drums seek gu~ar & bass must be creative & skilled wish to perform originals Fitz 1608 I Jeff 3136 No Heavy Metal 
According to yesterday's Chtcago Tribune, Jimmy Johnson (a.k.a. Satan in· carnate) has indeed been receiving phone calls and letters. For those of you who missed it: 
Jimmy Johnson 

Ob Sports Information Office 
No. 1 Hurricane Drive 
Coral Gables, FL 33146 

First, beat Michigan. Then beat Michigan State and rf'urdue and Stanford and Pitt. Than beat Miami. 
TO THE COOLEST, HOTTEST, AND TALLEST GUYS IN FLANNER HALL: MURPH, KEVIN, AND GREG. THANK U FOR SUN. NIGHT. PP, U REALLY KNOW HOW TO HANDLE THOSE LOBSTERS, & WHO DRESSES U ANYWAY? YOGI, CUT ME A BREAK! IT WAS GREAT HAVING U ON TOP IN THE BACK SEATI 2 BAD IT RAINED ON YOUR TASSELS. GREG, WISH U COULD HAVE BEEN WITH US ALL WKEND. JOAN WAS GREAT, BUT U'RE RIGHT, THE COMPANY WAS EXCEL· LENT! LET'S ALL GO OUT AND "HAVE A COKE" AGAIN, ON US. HOW BOUT THE GREAT WALL? LOVE, A, L, & J. 
P.S. ARENT U GLAD WE DIDN'T BUY OUR TIX ON FRI? 
HEY PETE I GOT A QUARTER? GREAT! THEN NEXT TIME YOU ARE STRANDED AT BRIDGET'S, CALL SOMEONE WHO CARES! BECAUSE WE DON'T! 
WOULD LIKE TO TRADE 1 MICH STUD TIX FOR 1 MIAMI STUD TIX IF INTER· ESTED CALL 284-5405 
YOGI'S YOGURT 277-4337 WE DELIVER AT SMC ON TUES. & THURS. NITES 6-9 P.M. $5 MIN. 
LIVE MUSIC 10 PM-? NO COVER BOKO MARU AT MCCORMICK'S 115 N. MICHIGAN DOWNTOWN 
-~---~--------~~­
Thursday, September 8, 1988 The Observer page 11 
-
•

ND women's soccer looks to Indiana after w1n 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
Two games into their first varsity season, the Notre Dame women's soccer team remained undefeated with a 8-1 victory over St. Joseph's on Tuesday. 
"Obviously, we dominated 
for the most part,'' said Irish 
assistant coach Neil Schmidt. 
"We had 15 corner kicks to 
their 0. That kind of says it all." 
Despite a slow start, in which St. Joseph's scored during the first few minutes, the Irish played a solid game. 
"At first we weren't playing too well," said freshman Susie Zilvitis, who had a hat trick in the game, becoming the first Irish woman soccer player to score three goals in a game. "But after that first goal, we picked it up. It was fun. I just went out and had a good game." 
Schmidt credits the victory 

r~L~FoR~-~ 
~ EMP l QY MEN T ~ 
·

ON CAMPUS??? §§ §
i 
§

The Observer Typesetting Service is §
§

~ 
looking for TYPESETTERS. §§ ~ 
to a good team effort and said that "there was a lot of inten­sity shown on the field." 
The relative inexperience of the team necessarily places the tactical emphasis on the basics, leaving other areas, such as the passing attack, open to improvement. 
"We applied good defensive pressure," said Schmidt. "But we only scored on one corner kick, so obviously we need to work on our restarts." 
The Irish will be travelling to 

Bloomington on Friday to take on Indiana University. Al­though the Hoosiers are still playing at club status after ap­proximately eight years, Schmidt does not dismiss the competition. 
"I predict that it will be a low scoring game," he said. "The defense will take over." 
Schmidt said that he and Notre Dame head coach Dennis Grace are still working out their line-up, seeing what com­binations work well together and giving the players a chance to find out where they are most comfortable. 
"Right now everybody is playing defense and everybody is playing offense," he said. 
"It looks good for Friday," said Zilvitis. "We've been working hard to get ready for Indiana." 
After the Hoosier game, the next test for the Irish will come on Sunday when they head for Illinois to face Lake Forest. 

Garrison upsets Martina in Open 
Associated Press five match points in the second 
set before eliminating Nav-
NEW YORK--Zina Garrison, ratilova, the second seed who winless in 21 previous matches failed to reach the semifinals against Martina Navratilova, for the first time since 1982. ended her bid for a third Garrison, a 24-year-old from straight U.S. Open title Wed-~ouston, adva~ced ~0 the semi­nesday with a 6-4, 6-7 (3-7), 7-5 fmals for the ftrst time victory in the quarterfinals. · 
Earlier, top-seeded Steffi She appeared to have the 
i 
Graf breezed into the semi-match in hand when she raced ~ Stop in to our off.ice on the third floor finals while Chris Evert, out to a 5-0 lead in the second 
Gabriela Sabatini and Mats set. But Navratilova pulled &. of LaFortune to fill out an application. Wilander rallied for come-even by winning the next five 
~ 
Y § from-behind victories. games--staving off three .q..q...q,.q.•.q·q-.~~~~~·<Q.f»>~~•..q. ~ Garrison, the 11th seed, blew match points before breaking 
The American Express~ Card gets an outstanding welcome virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket or a leather-bound classic. Whether you're bound for a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for astudent application. The American Express Card. 
Don't Leave School Without It~ 

Garrison's service in the ninth game. 
Both players held serve before Navratilova easily took the tie-breaker. 
The two held serve for the first four games of the final set before Garrison broke on a backhand return to take a 3-2 lead. Navratilova broke in the lOth game when Garrison netted a backhand half-volley,

but Garrison broke back with . a cross-court forehand to go ahead 6-5. 
Navratilova staved off a fifth match point before Garrison ended the 2-hour, 33-minute match with a forehand volley. 
Graf won her 33rd straight match and moved to within two victories of completing a Grand Slam with a 6-3, 6-0 vic­tory over No. 14 Katerina Maleeva of Bulgaria. 
Maleeva's older sister, sixth­seeded Manuela, lost a two­hour baseline duel to Evert 3-6, 6-4, 6-2, while Wilander beat Emilio Sanchez of Spain 3-6, 7-6 (8-6)' 6-0, 6-4. 
Sabatini, the fifth seed, beat 16th-seeded Larisa Savchenko of the Soviet Union 4-6, 6-4, 6-1. 
Evert, seeded third, was down a set and a break before rallying to reach the semifinals for the 17th time in 18 years. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
After leading the nation in scoring as a freshman last year, Snow has picked up this season where he left off, scoring all four goals for In­diana last weekend. The Hoosiers are 17-1 in games Snow has scored at least one goal, with that one loss coming against Notre Dame. 
Complementing Snow on the front line is Sean Shapert, who led the team with 18 assists last season. Snow, Shapert, and Chris Sciortino are the starting forwards for the Hoosiers. 
The Hoosier midfield is weakened by the loss of captain Herb Haller, who sprained his ankle last week and probably will not play. Either Wes Priest or Mike Hanhouser will fill Hal­ler's spot, and Simon Kanter and Han Roest round out the midfield. 
Indiana's defense is solid, led by keeper Jeurgen Sommer, stopper John Paul and sweeper Jim Crockford, all of whom were named to the AdidasMet Life all-tournament team. Matt Isger and Mark Behringer are the wingbacks. 
IRISH ITEMS--No Irish players are expected to miss the game because of injury. Reserve forwards Pat Murphy and Tom Connaghan are both banged up, but expected to play. 

Thursday, September 8, 1988 
page 12 The Observer 

TODAY! LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN HOUSE Schedule of Events 
Beginning at 
Make Your Own Sundaes 
11:00 a.m. 
Create Your Own Newspaper Headline The Magic of Kevin Wilson Clown Around with "Bepo" the Clown Visit with Student Organizations in the Lobby Listen to the Music of Greg O'Connor 
1:00 p.m. WVFI Live Broadcast Paul Harron -Bagpiper 
2:00 p.m. 
Paul Gerni -World Champion of Pool Trick and Fancy Shots (Demonstration) 
4:00 p.m. Paul Gerni -Clinic­Student Center Tours Party at Theodores Twister Contest 
6:00 p.m. 
Music of Mike Rayburn 
6:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Fightin' Irish Marching Band 
8:00p.m. Craig Karges' "Magic of the Mind" Show 
10:00 p.m. OJ in Theodores 
12:00 Midnight Midnight Movie "Nightmare on Elm Street" 
-OPEN HOUSE-DRAWING 
Fill out a ticket in any of LaFortune Student Center Businesses and take the chance to win one of the following prizes: 
Two $50.00 Gift Certificates from Travelmore 
A $50.00 Savings Bond from Trustcorp Bank 
Shampoo & Conditioner from the Hairstylist 
Free Album, CD or Tape from the Cellar 
Bud vase with Rose from Irish Gardens 
Free Resume from Adworks 
Free Pizza from the Huddle 
Banana Split, 1 lb. fudge and 11b. of carmel corn from Fudge 'n Things 
Two $5.00 Gift Certificates from Country Harvester 
Forms available in the business: Fudge 'n Things, The Huddle, and the Student Center Information Desk. 
-~---l 
~------------------------------------~--------------~--------­
Thursday, September 8, 1988 
The Observer 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Outdoors is sponsoring a canoe trip to the Pine River in Michigan. The group will depart Friday afternoon, Sept. 17, and will return the following day. Deadline for registration is Wednesday, Sept. 14. For questions or registration, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
The SMC Student Athletic Council will be sponsoring a picnic for all the school's current athletes and those inter­ested in becoming varsity athletes. The picnic will be held Monday, Sept. 12, at 7 p.m. on the east end of Angela Athletic Facility. Call284-5549 and leave your dining hall number. -The Observer 
The Squash Club membership fee of $4 is due on Friday. Members should send fees to Bill Murray at 337 Holy Cross. The first meeting will be Tuesday, Sept. 13, at Court 1 of the Joyce ACC at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The NO Tae Kwon Do Club has workouts every Monday and Wednesday from 8:30 to 10 p.m. in the Joyce ACC gym. Beginners and advanced students are welcome. For more information, contact Richard Jennings at x1943. -The Observer 
Wear green to the game this Saturday against Michigan. The Hall Presidents Council and Irish Insanity will sponsor a face paint at the dining hall and Green Field. There will be no charge to get your face painted. -The Observer 
The NO women's golf team wants any women with a nine handicap or lower interested in trying out for the team to report to the Burke Memorial Golf Course between 3 and 4 
p.m. to see Coach Tom Hanlon. -The Observer 
Sweet C. Robinson, a Notre Dame employee, will be competing Saturday for the Illinois state PAKA middleweight kick-boxing championship. Robinson, ranked lOth in the world by the PAKA, already holds the Indiana and Michigan titles. 
-The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club competed over Labor Day weekend at the Harry Anderson Regatta at Yale in New Haven, Conn. The team fared well against the 18 east coast schools. This weekend the team will host the Notre Dame Intersectional Regatta. -The Observer 

Notre 0.11T1e Law School 
presents a lecture by 
Dr. Theodore Cooper Chairman of the Board and CEO The Upjohn Company 
on 
"Aid: Policy Concerns" 
12:00 Noon 
Tuesday, Sept. 13 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 
TODAY 
11:00 am 

until 
1:00am It's a fun-filled adventure! 
Detailed schedules available at the Student Center 
The WeekeRd Line-up at Mateo's Playing Field 

* 
FRIDAY Live Band 
8:00 -12:00 am 
* 

7" subs only* $2.75 from 5:00pm-7:00pm
*(not available for delivery) 
Giveaways
* 

* Mateo Specials all night 
* 


SATURDAY 
* 

* Sat Football Game on T.V. 
Mateo Specials all night 
* 

* 
Get in on our soft party subs for

* 
the game 





Specials not available on deliveries. 

1636 N. Ironwood Drive 
Free Delivery * 271-0SUB "Enjoy it outdoors at The Playing Field" *Help Wanted * 
page 13 

• 
Speculation swirls around Tyson 'accident' 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Mike Tyson's alleged suicide attempt, con­sidered pure fiction by those closest to him, may have been an attempt to attract more at­tention from a wife who is ig­noring him, sources close to the heavyweight champion said. 
Tyson's manager, Bill Cayton, meanwhile, confirmed on Wednesday that the fighter's actress wife, Robin Givens, and her mother have urged Tyson to see a Manhat­tan psychiatrist described as an expert on athletic stress. 
Stanford 

continued from page 16 
and kept its intensity long enough to win a game. 
Senior Maureen Shea's play improved as the match contin­ued, but neither she nor Ben­nett and Waller could dominate the net consistently against a much taller Stanford team and, in the decisive game of the match, this proved to be the team's downfall. 
The Irish played their best volleyball of the night in the fourth game and looked to be headed for a fifth game show­down with the Cardinals, but after leading 12-8 seemed to lose their concentration and go on the defensive. 
Even a brilliant defensive performance, led by Shew­man's 21 digs, and Waller's third service ace could not prevent the Stanford team from clawing its way into the lead and the Irish offense be­came nonexistent in the final stages of the game. 
"When it was 12-8, I thought 'We've got them; we're going into a fifth game,' " said Wal­ler. "But instead of finishing the game off, we just seemed to lose our concentration and fall apart as a team." 
The match was marked by play that was less than consis­tent for the Irish and the Stan­ford team, who executed their offense and defense with al­most mechanical perfection, seldom lost their intensity long enough for Notre Dame to take control of the match. 
"As far as skill goes I think we're right up their with them," said Shea. "But they had that mental edge and we weren't able to incorporate our individual performances into good team play as a whole." 
Waller led the team with 21 kills and 11 blocks and Shea and Bennett each contributed 14 kills, but Stanford was able to neutralize much of this attack. The Irish tallied a total of 17 blocks compared to Stanford's nine, but the Cardinals rarely let the Irish attack reach the floor. 
Stanford's rapid-fire sub­stitution kept the Cardinals fresh and the Irish seldom found the combination that could trigger a scoring run. 
"We just kept getting better as the match went on," said Lambert, "but we can't expect teams like Stanford to hand us a victory. We've got a tough schedule ahead of us and I think we have the ability to be a top ten team, but you've got to keep your intensity for the entire match or you might as well just give them the game." 

~~~--~~----~--­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1988 
Cross country faces G'town 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
AP Photo 

Martina Navratllova has good reason to look disconsolate after dropping a tough three set match to Zina Garrison in the quarter­finals of the U. S. Open. An update from Flushing Meadows appears on page 11. 
Friday, Sept. 9 Sept 11
DANCE-DANCE­DANCE-
to the favorite tunes played by SUPER great campus 
SPORTS 
D.J.'s opening SUNDAY at 
9:00 

Come watch NFL FootbaJI 4-7-PM 


Sorry Gang, NO FRIDAY LUNCH BUT this week, 
It is Business as usual Friday Night from 9:00-2:00 
GAME DAY!! 
Start things off at the Club on Saturday, open at 4:30 
GO IRISH! 
----~-----­
The Observer 
page 15 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
Thursday, September 8, 1988 
LECTURE CIRCUIT . . 
12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns presents Associate Professor George Lopez, Government and Peace Institute, on "Cultural Diversity as a Foundation for University Education," in room 124 esc. 
Noon Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government presents Larry Gostin, executive director of law and medicine, on "The Nucleus of a Public Health Strategy to Combat AIDS," in 220 Law School Courtroom. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Thin Steak Sandwich Pork Cutlet Chasseur 
Grilled Pork Chops Beef Pot Pie 
Turkey Divan Cheese Blintzes 
Stuffed Shells Deli Bar 

PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE 

DON'T SMOKE! 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY • 
COMICS 
Bloom County 

40 Tokyo, once 41 Johnny­44 Swears to 46 Rains icy particles 47 Mongoose targets 49 Pilots 
ACROSS I"-be praised!" 6 Word with land 
or sea 11 F.D.R. agency 14 The huntress 15 Actress Marta 16 Cry of triumph 17 "Shoot, if you 
must, this 
"· 
Whittier 19 Guidonian note 20 Writing 
implement 21Awareof 22 High priest 23 Lend 25 Moslem 
mendicant monk 
27 Conception 30 N.Y. time in May 31 Ponies 
32 "1-bueno!" 33 Pert 35 Mil. branch 36"A-man 
speaking to men": Wordsworth 
38 Utility must 42 Solti's title 43 -Islands of 
Denmark 45 Citrus drink 46 Tea fare 48 Gerona's river 49 Kind of appeal 50 Attics 51 Maximally 53 Abate 

12-aday
A I A. T 0 P E K A B E S T 
13 Runs a 
D RU B L I IMII T S L U R 28 Twosome 
meeting 
18 Former
SEMI.EA.IAE 
29 "Five-feet two,
..

-p 
LA N E RE M A DE 

Turkish coins 
S L E E P F U S S Y-24Turn-ear 
33 Bargain events 

to 26 "Rule 34 Oda site 
"f'ir AGHAS.TRASH 
~~~ CLARINETTLE 
Brita~nia" 
37 Dye

AGR HELENAILOAD 
man
!]]: ENERGY ENVY 
27 Demon 39 Sad 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
c'A'D OMNI PEEDEE 
F A I Rl A RL I S S 
era ro J! 0 0 D W I N D I A N TroCU L 1 N o A • A a o RA Tru ra 
-L I 
~il!rf0'"f1i

DE TIES T A~A 8­
11-\EfRE ~lNG \D S\J'iWOO US LimE l(lDS Win\ SllBL\M\t-l~l MIS%E5 IN. C1JR ~\<S, lt.Wt{G IJS TCl1\JR~ I~ 0\.JR 
Pt>-R9HS 'N\.ItN \11t: Sfl.I\JRI\If*IS 
~TThC.I<..! Ei\Rn-1 'fllll &. 
l<£NDE?.t.D 1-\ELP\..E.SS! 
~1\ \ 
~~-"',·_ 
54 African fox 56 Addison's partner 
60 Goethe's "The -king" 61"Her-...": 
Coleridge 63 Kind of cross 64 Growing out 65 Turkish decree 66 Compass pt. 67 Hearing, e.g. 68 "-Is Born" 
DOWN 
1 Fusses 2 Cadence 3 Slipper 
preceder 4 England, to 
Caesar 5 --scarum 6 Pen 7 Associates 8 "-we all?" 9 Irish fuel 
10 "Till the-" 1945 song ' 
11 "Barefoot boy, with-!": Whittier 51 "A life's but 
-": Shak. 52 Groove 55-quanon 57 Part of Q.E.D. 58 Castor's 
mother 59 German river 62 Tiny 
Gary Larson 


Calvin and Hobbes 
DID ~0~ SEE WE 1-\t>-VE f>.. 
SU8STITVTE 'TEf.-CW;:.R 
Tat».~? 

Bill Watterson 
I 11-\IN.k OOE ()f' US 1-\t>-S BITN EATIN.G ltXlMUC\-\ 
PA5\E I~ ARI CU\SS. 

"I tell you I've had ltl ... I'm not climbing Into that getup one more time until you tell me why I'm always the back end." 

CHECK OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEK: 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 9 THURS-Diamonds Are Forever
AFTER THE PEP RALLV 
FRI-Everything You Always Wanted
COME SEE 
to Know 

ALL TIMES: 8 pm & 10:15 pm ADMISSION $2 CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
REGENCY 
A dynamic, 5-man a capella group 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 
~~------,.---------~--~-~ -~ -----~------~----------~~--~-------­
-----------~-~­
Stanford too much for Irish volleyball 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Unfortunately, the Cardinals Sports Writer steadily accumulated points with their powerful net play 
The Irish had the Cardinals and seemingly unpenetrable in their sights, but they couldn't defense and they never relin­seem to pull the trigger. quished their lead. 
The Notre Dame women's The Irish rallied in game two volleyball team had its mo­behind the hitting of seniors ments of greatness last night, Mary Kay Waller and Zanette but fourth-ranked Stanford left Bennett, but neither team South Bend undefeated at 4-0 could maintain their side out after defeating the Irish in four long enough to tally more than hard-fought games, 15-5, 15-12, a point until the Irish broke an 7-15, 15-13. endless 8-8 stalemate and 
"Everyone had their mo­gained a 12-9 lead. ments," said Irish head coach But it was not meant to be, Art Lambert, "but we just gave as Notre Dame lost its com­them that last game. We cannot posure after a questionable call sustain anything for five games by a line judge and struggled and you've got to know that a to merely stave off the Stanford team like Stanford is going to attack without being able to take you four or five games. mount their own. We just got into the gift-giving The team's play improved as business." the match continued and by the 
Notre Dame and Stanford third game they played were locked in a continuous cohesively enough to keep struggle to maintain momen­Stanford on the defensive for tum but neither could do so con­much of the game. The Irish sistently. Sporadic play proved experimented with different to be Notre Dame's fatal flaw combinations, rotating senior and Stanford's perfunctory Whitney Shewman and sopho­precision kept the Irish from more Amy White into the mounting successful com­lineup, and this chemistry ebacks and maintaining their proved to be the difference in leads. the game. 
The Irish started out slowly Though the Cardinals made in the first game, showing the the Irish work for their victory, first signs of the communica­it marked the first time Notre tion problems they would suf­Dame successfully gained an<;l fer throughout the match, but maintained control of the game were still able to make Stan­
see STANFORD, page 13
ford work for its points. 
Men's soccer team to face perennial power Indiana 
By PETE GEGEN meet again Friday night at Bill "They have supreme confi­this time. We have to be ready satisfied. We didn't play the Armstrong Stadium, there wiH dence in themselves," said to play our best soccer. We kind of soccer we're capable of
Sports Writer 
be no surprises. Irish head coach Dennis Grace have to have the right frame of playing." BLOOMINGTON--If the "Notre Dame is capable of of his players. "Down one or mind." Meanwhile Notre Dame's of­
Notre Dame soccer team is beating any team any day," two goals, they have enough The Hoosiers have not lost a fense has been spectacular in looking for praise from the soc­said Yeagely. "They're a vet­character and confidence to regular-season soccer match the first three games. Bruce cer elite, it needs to look no far­eran team, they have depth, come back. But it's something since that upset, and their most 'Tiger' McCourt leads the team ther than within "its home state. they have good athletes, and thev'll have to outgrow." recent victories suggest that in scoring with three goals and 
"Upsets for Notre Dame are they never give up." Thanks to last season's upset they aren't ready to have that an assist, and Joe Sternberg fol­history," noted Jerry Yeagely, Yeagely knows all too well and Grace's ties to Indiana undefeated string broken. In its lows with two goals and two as­head coach of second-ranked that the Irish never give up. (former player and assistant AddidaSIMetropolitan Life sists. Indiana. "It's to the point that With a 3-1lead in last season's coach under Yeagely), Tournament last weekend, In­While Grace is not making if Notre Dame wins, it's not an game, his team failed to put Yeagely is gearing his team to diana bounced No. 3 North any lineup changes for Indiana, upset." away the Irish. play to its potential against the Carolina 2-0 and edged No. 4 his defense will have to be in 
The Irish reached that That persistence appears to Irish, and for good reason. UCLA 2-1 to win its tourna­top form to stop Ken Snow, one 
plateau last season when they have carried over to this "Notre Dame taught us a big ment. of the best finishers in the surprised the Hoosiers 4-3 in season. Down 2-0 to Lafayette lesson last year," said Y eage­"It was a great weekend, and game. overtime and went on to a 17-3-1 Saturday, Notre Dame ended ly. those were great wins," said 
season. When the two teams up winning 3-2. "They won't catch us napping Yeagely. "But the team is not see SOCCER, page 11 
As Irish prepare, crunch time approaches 
At football practice this week, only one thing was make many mistakes. Last year was an exception, Injury report--Tailback Tony Brooks has a stress 
important. but that wasn't the real Michigan team." fracture in his foot that will eventually require sur­Michigan. gery. Holtz plans to let him play and hope that he What's the big deal? The Irish are at home and Heading into spring practices, there were a lot of can finish the season. 
aren't far behind in the national rankings. spaces to fill on the team. Which players does Holtz "We've got our fingers crossed," Holtz says. "He 
But the Irish offensive and defensive lines know think have made the most progress since May? may always be one play away from ending his what they will be up against Saturday when they "That'd be hard to say; there'd be so many of season. He can't do it any more harm by not treating battle the heralded lines of the Wolverines. them," Holtz says. "Winston Sandri (offensive it now, but he's just one step away from the anes­
"Michigan's waiting, Michigan's waiting," sang guard) would be one candidate, then there's thesiologist." out one coach in reprimand. Defensive tackle Tom Gorman says he will be 
"I don't care what Michigan thinks of us coming ready to play following despite battling a shoulder into the game," Irish head coach Lou Holtz says. injury. "I only care what they think going out." "Up until three days ago, I was just watching, 
Michigan's daily quarterback guessing game but Sunday I was in the action again. It'll be okay, doesn't take away from the talent. I'll play, and the shoulder is going to be fine." 
"Demetrius Brown is a fine quarterback, even if Fullback Anthony Johnson suffered an ankle in­he did have a bad day against us," Holtz says. "If jury last week but was practicing with the team someone on that team beats him out, that really this week. tells me something." , (center) Mike Heldt, George Williams and Chris 
Notre Dame's 2-3 record against the Wolverines Zorich (defensive tackles). I could just go on and You'll be ready for It when It happens. includes last season's 26-7 win at Michigan Stadium. on." The NCAA has added a new scoring option for 
"What worries me most about Michigan is that Holtz mentions both offensive and defensive teams with offensive troubles. they're Michigan," Holtz says. "They play well linemen, but he regards the players on the defensive If a team blocks an extra point attempt, they can they play intelligently, they play hard, they're good line as the most improved on the team. pick up the football and run it the other way, scoring and sound and they're well coached. They are one "In three weeks, they've come a long, long way," two points if they cross the other team's goal line. of the best teams in the country. They just don't he says. Who thinks these things up, anyway? 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
standing effort, registering 14 kills on the night. Molly Mahoney has complete details of the match at left. 


