
Leave us alone rain 
A 90 percent chance of rain 
with possible thundershowers 
today. High in the middle to 
Irish Extra 
Rice at 
upper 50s. A 90 percent chance of rain tonight.

Notre Dame 

• 

~EKEND EDITION, NOVEMBER 4-5, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXII, NO.-.~ 

One of the many beautiful trees that are falling into autumn on Notre Dame's campus this month. 


Mercenaries fail in coup attempt in Maldives Isles 
Associated Press 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka-­Foreign mercenaries tried to take over the Maldives and In­dian paratroopers spread out early Friday in Male, the cap­ital, to aid embattled President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, Mal­divian officials said. 
Two officials reported Gayoom was safe and one added: "The situation is under control. Everybody is all right." 
A senior Sri Lankan govern­ment official said at least 12 people were killed and 22 wounded when about 150 mer­cenaries attacked Male, a city of 55,000 people, before dawn Thursday. 
The hired attackers were thought to be Tamils from Sri Lanka, about 400 miles east of Maldives in the Indian Ocean, diplomatic sources in Colombo said. 
Maldivian officials said shooting died down after the In­dian troops arrived. 

AP 
A senior Sri Lankan military official said former President Ibrahim Nasir of the Maldives was behind the attempt to over­throw Gayoom, who succeeded Nasir in 1978 and was re­elected to a third five-year term Sept. "23. 
Maldives has a population of about 189,000, most of them Sunni Moslems, spread across a 500-mile chain of small, low­lying coral islands known for fishing and glistening tourist beaches· 
The Maldivian officials, con­tacted by telephone from New Delhi, spoke on condition their names not be used. 
A maldivian police official said Indian paratroopers were deploying in Male. 
Some mercenaries fled by boat, a Maldivian security of­ficial said. He said he saw In­dian troops in the streets of Male but he did not know what happened to any remaining mercenaries. · 
A western diplomatic source in Colombo said his reports in­dicated the mercenaries in­flicted heavy grenade and bul­let damage on government buildings before the Indians ar­rived. 
The raiders apparently came ashore from fishing tr~wlers before dawn Thursday and at­tacked military headquarters next to the presidential palace. 
Press Trust of India said 1,600 Indian paratroopers were sent after an emergency 
see COUP, page 7 


Dukakis, Bush enter the home stretch of the race 
Associated Press 
Michael Dukakis asserted Thursday that voters by the millions are giving his un­derdog campaign "a very strong second look" in the waning days of the race for the White House. George Bush said Democrats were "grossly unfair" to say his advertising is tinged with racism. 
"You're looking at a man who was out front for civil rights and I will be again," the vice president said in a network television inter­view. He defended running mate Dan Quayle on the same score and said any po­litical wounds would heal quickly after the election. 
Dukakis combined an at­tack on the Reagan-Bush ad­ministration's record on drugs with ritual declara­tions that the political tide was turning in his favor. "His administration has cut deals with foreign drug run­ners. I'm going to cut aid" to their nations, said the Democratic nominee. 
Most of the national atten­tion was on the White House campaign, but not all. 
Democrats were express­ing confidence they would 
********* 

ELECTION ·aa 
control both -h~uses of ~ih"; 
new Congress, although 
Republicans said they had a 
chance of picking up a seat 
or two in the Senate. A dozen 
gubernatorial contests 
dotted ballots being printed 
for next Tuesday's Election 
Day. 
The public opinion polls in 
the White House campaign 
continued to provide encour­
agement for Bush. 
Dukakis was trying 
desperately to reverse poll 
deficits in several large 
Electoral College bat­
tlegrounds at once. He ven­
tured unexpectedly into New 
Jersey, crooning a Ia Bruce 
Springsteen, "I was born to 
run and born to win." But 
Bush, Reagan, Quayle and 
Co. were pouring it on in 
Ohio, where private polls 
continued to show a solid Re­
publican edge. 
ABC said its survey of 
North Carolina--once 
Dukakis' strongest hope for 
a Southern success--gave the 
vice president an 11-point 
edge. Dukakis held a four­
point margin in a New York 
survey. 
Bush and Dukakis were 
spending millions on campaign-closing television and radio commercials, and both the Democratic andRe­publican parties previewed a spate of advertisements designed to maximize party support. 

Dukakis had an ad featur­ing one of the most memorable television mo­ments of the campaign, with Democratic vice presiden­tial candidate Lloyd Bentsen turning to Quayle during their debate and saying, "Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy.'' 
Republicans countered with the Great Com­municator. 
"America is at peace, and we are prosperous once more.... On Tuesday, I hope you will vote Republican--up and down the ticket--to continue the change we began in 1981," said President Reagan in a 30-second GOP television commercial. 
Bush and Dukakis both were on morning television programs while embarking on another dawn-to-dusk dash through key bat­tleground states. 
In a live 30-minute inter­view on NBC's "Today" 
see ELECTION, page 7 
AP Photos 
George Bush and Mike Dukakis attend their respective rallies this week in preparation of next week's election. 

• 
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
The Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan of Indiana, Ken Taylor, said Thursday that his position shouldn't af­fect his bid to become Montgomery County coroner. "I don't think it should have been an issue because the job I am seeking has nothing to do with the Klan,'' said Taylor, who was unopposed in the Democratic primary. "Some people say it will hurt; some say it will help. I don't know what it will do," he said. "As long as you're doing the job, what your private affiliations are shouldn't matter." ­
Associated Press 
Geraldo Rivera was hit in the nose by a flying chair on his talk-show set Thursday as he•tried to break up a melee involving right-wing "skinheads" and black civil rights activist Roy Innis. The brawl broke out when one of the guests on the show, John Metzger of California, began shouting racist remarks at the audience. "About half the audience emptied in a free-swinging melee," said a spokesman for the show, Geertz. "Punches were thrown, fists were flying, bodies were flying." 


OF INTEREST 
Attention NO Seniors: advance registration for religious studies courses will take place at the Notre Dame Theology Dept., 340 O'Shaughnessy on Nov. 9 from 7-9 p.m., NOT Nov. 10 as indicated in Senior Blue Advance Registration Instruction sheet. -The Observer 
UB40 Bus Trip to Northwestern will leave at 5:15p.m. 
on Friday. Meet at Main Circle at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Campus Bible Study meets for supper at 5:45p.m. then for Bible Study. Come on over for a good home-cooked meal then stay to study the Bible with us as we continue looking at "Prophecy-The Twinkling of an Eye." Call 277-8471 or just come to the Campus House, 19525 Pendle Road (off Juniper). -The Observer 
Tutors Needed for the Neighborhood Study Help program to tutor South Bend children at 3-4 MW (call Mary X 1759) and at 5-6 MW (call Tom 287-8716). Tutors also needed at 3:30-4:30 MW, 5:30-6:30 TT, and 6-7 Tues­days (call Elizabeth X 3619 or Tara 237-9533). -The Obser­ver 
A Show of "Black Images" will be held today at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium, dedicated to images of black people in America. The show will consist of skits, songs, poetry, etc. -The Observer 
Arnold Air Society will host Logan Center mentally 
hanidcapped adults at the Notre Dame-Rice game on Nov. 
5. We will be meeting at 9:00 at the Main Circle. -The Observer 
Logan Center Halloween Dance today from 7:30 to 10 p.m. Current and new volunteers welcome and must wear costumes. St. Mary's van pickups between 6:45 and 7 p.m. Volunteer pizza party to follow. -The Observer 
Communion & Liberation will hold a presentation 
about the movement and its Notre Dame community at 4 
p.m. on Nov. 6 in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. For more information, contact Joel at 271-0913. -The Observer 
"Focus on Your Career:" a workshop to explore interests, skills, and values as they relate to choosing a career. Presented by Jeff Rice and Marilyn Bury, assistant directors of Career and Placement Services on Nov. 7 in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center 6:30-8:30 
p.m. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Delign EditM . . . . .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. Dave Roth Newa Editor ................... Matt Gallagher Dengn Aa.Uta..U . ......... Janice O'Leary COJIII Editor ....................... Miaay Weber ........................................ Shannon Poley Sparta COPJI EditMa .. .. .. .. ... Greg Guffey ....................................... Molly Mahoney 
TJ1peaeu.,.., .................... Molly Schwartz 
Etc.CopJI Editor ..................... Jobn Blaai
........................................... Paul Jackson 
Etc.oengn.... ......................... Tim Irvine Photograph.,.. .............. Llaa M.L. D'Anzi 
~ 0Mener (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except d~na ~ and vacation pcrioda. 'De O!Mener is published by the students of the Uruvenaty of Nooe Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semeater) by wrilina 'De Olleener P .0. Box Q Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46~~6. ' ' 'l1le ot.rnr is a member of 'De AIMdaled r.-. All reproduction rights are reaerved. 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 
This Tuesday, Nov. 8, ends a presidential race ~hat has made our candidates appear pathetic, mcompetent and foolhardy. 
Never before have the candidates running for the Oval Office perform so poorly for all the nation to witness. 
It is frightening to think that as voters, we are forced to choose from what one poignant observer called "the evil of two lessers." In a democratic system where barely a majority of its people exercise the right to vote, concerned citizens have mounted numerous registration drives. Yet, at the same time, most are appalled at the idea of going to the polls to cast that fateful presidential vote. 
To call this year's race a joke is probably pretty accurate. Let's examine some of the great campaign blunders that have caused voters to yearn for the political days of yes­teryear, when decisions were made in smoke­filled rooms and not American living rooms. 
George Bush wins the "I am out of touch with reality" award for his insistence on receiving the line-item veto from Congress. Bush has brought this issue up repeatedly in the presence of the people who fear him most--the media. As if it's not bad enough thinking about either of the candidates sitting in the Oval Office, it makes one observer ill to think of the probable winner wielding the power of the line-item veto. Great, let's give the "wimp" the absolute veto while we're at it. 
What gives George Bush the nerve to ask for the line-item veto? His present boss couldn't get it even with all of his persuasive acting. Now, the man who has become a sudden tough guy in America's eyes, the man who for eight years might as well have been in Massachusetts when the "tough decisions" were being made in Washington, wants the power to negate Con­gressional logrolling, a critical element of our democracy. 
Michael "please call me Mike" Dukakis has based his campaign on "core values and tough decisions." Granted, "the Duke" beat his coun­terpart in the first tough decision by picking' 
Lloyd Bentsen, a hard-nosed and trustworthy politician (a non sequitur?) over Indiana's own Dan Quayle. Let's just hope that Bush depends on Quayle as much as Reagan depended on George. 
Dukakis seems to really have the country's best interests at heart. It's not his fault that the Democratic party is in a shambles, at least in the eyes of a teflon-blinded America. 
But everytime Dukakis has a chance for the kill, he simply misses the opportunity. Maybe Dukakis is just too nice for the Washington hot-

Chris Murphy 


seat. We've still got to prove that America is tough, tough enough to fight off an unbalanced budget and an ever-increasing deficit. 
The real problem with Dukakis seems to be America's reluctance to put a Democrat back in office. Carter's failure in the office still looms large in the eyes of those who have felt the economic prosperity of the last eight years. Americans still believe that talking about edu­cation and poverty isn't enough. But, it seems that ignoring it by means of supply-side eco­nomics suits us just fine. 
Finally, let's give a hand to the media, the ones who have shaped this enlightening cam­paign process. For the next four years, as we look for answers from our government, we can hearken back to the six months in 1988, when the questions weren't asked. 
Instead, this election will be won by the commercial-makers, the ones who show trash washing up in the Boston Harbor and the ones who show George Bush's involvement with nu­clear testing. 
Let's hope that the residue of the last eight years of Reagan teflon sticks to America for the next four years. Then, in 1992, maybe we'll do it right. 
-~!IIPI-­
SWEATS 




AND MUCH MORE!! YOUR DESIGN SCREEN PRINTED TO YOUR SP~CIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX .928 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 255-4239 

·----L_
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________. 
-~-­

The Observer I Lisa D'Anzi 

A wreath in memory of Mrs. Lafortune is displayed outside the front of Lafortune Student Center. 
Rice weekend events 
.FRIDAY 
4:30p.m.: Band practice. Step off from Washington Hall. 7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. 
SATURDAY 
9 a.m.--Noon: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, fam­ily and friends are cordially invited to the Alumni Hospitality Center for films and information in the Joyce ACC. 9:30a.m. A closed meeting of the Alcoholics Anonymous Fellowship in the Center for Social Concerns. 
10:15 a.m.: Glee Club performs "ND in Review" on steps of Administration Building. 
10:30 a.m.: Shenanigans performance in the JACC North Dome. 
10:55 a.m.: Band concert on steps of Administration Build­ing. Noon: Pre-game program in Notre Dame Stadium. 
12:10 p.m.: Football: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Rice University Owls in Notre Dame Stadium. After the game: Alumni Hospitality Center in JACC North Dome. 


CALL TO PEACEMAKING  
Sunday, November 6  "INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS: CHILE, SOUTH AFRICA AND THE UNITED STATES" Dean David Link, N.D. Law School, 6:30 P.M. CSC, Sponsored by Amnesty International which celebrates the 40th Anniversary of the U.N. Declaration on Human Rights.  
"CALL TO PEACEMAKING OPENING MASS" Fr. Monk Malloy, C.S.C. Holy Mass at Sacred Heart church, 11:30 A.M.  ·  

Monday, "KEEPING THE PEACE AND PROTECTING NATIONAL SECURITY WITHOUT NUCLEAR WEAPONS" November 7 Robert Johansen,. Senior Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies. 7:30 P.M. at the CSC. Sponsored by UCAM. 
Tuesday, "PROGNOSIS FOR PEACE" November 8 Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., 12:00 Noon at the CSC, Election Day! 
"ELECTION POST MORTEM: WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?" Wednesday, Shelly Douglass, Chairperson of the FelloWship of Reconciliation, 6:15P.M. at the CSC. Sponsored by GILA. DEBATE ON THE PALESTINIAN UPRISING
November 9 

With N.D. scholars, Yehuda Kovacs and Edna Hidekel from Israel and Zoughbi Zoughbi and Jamal Abu Affcyeh from Palestine. 7:00 
Thursday, November 10 
Friday, November 11 
Sunday, November 13 
The Observer page 3 


SMC's Hickey attend.s drug and alcohol abuse conference 
By JOANNA GRILLO News Staff 
At the invitation of the Net­work of Colleges and Univer­sitit!s Committed to the Elimi­nation of Drug and Alcohol Abuse, Saint Mary's College president William Hickey at­tended a conference on sub­stance abuse issues. 
Hickey was joined by a panel of four other college and uni­versity presidents. 
"One thing that attracted them (the Network) to Saint Mary's is our alcohol education program that has been in place since 1979," said Hickey. 
As institutions are becoming aware of the increasing abuse of alcohol and other drugs they are responding by establishing educational programs, Hickey said. However, a major prob­lem faced by institutions is the lack of available information on which to build the programs. 
One of the purposes for set­ting up the Network was to enable participating schools to observe the data that other schools, such as Saint Mary's, have collected and to see what kinds of programs work and have worked in the past, added Hickey. 
The goals of the network in­clude: 
• To collect and disseminate research-and practice-based knowledge about successful 
programs;
• To provide a forum and mechanism for continuing communication and collabora­tion among institutions of higher education; and 
• To identify areas and prob­lems for further research and development. 
Hickey feels that substance abuse, particulary alcohol abuse, is a societal problem, not one that is unique to higher education or a certain job sec­tor. 
''We must begin to encourage institutions to establish educa­tional programs--not wait until a problem occurs such as the Len Bias tragedy at University of Maryland. We have to step up front in advance and 
· develop programming," Hickey said. 
"I do not think that the es­tablishment of an educational program means the elimina­tion of the problem but it does work toward th~ changing of at­titudes and hopefully over time behavior patterns will change and students will not always turn to alcohol and the abuse of alcohol," Hickey said. 
Hickey expressed a genuine satisfaction with the profes­sionals in Student Activities who have set up the alcohol education and counseling pro­
·grams at Saint Mary's. Among these professionals is Molly Sullivan who provides personal 
and confidential alcohol coun­seling to students. 
According to Hickey, the · number one goal of the Student Affairs staff is the implemen­
tation of the ''wellness con­cept" over the next three to five years. The wellness concept is an extension of the alcohol edu­cation concept, branching out to include eating disorders, stress and other problems faced by students today. 
"Through general program­ming they hope to bring about a modification of student life­style. Again, they want stu­dents to recognize that every activity does not have to revolve around alcohol." 
The implementation of well­ness is also an institutional priority for the next three to five years. Hickey said that there is ."a general recognition that we've had a positive im­pact on behavioral and at­titudinal change and we need to expand this." 
"We enforce Indiana state 
law, but we also realize that 
students of Saint Mary's are 
adults and they are responsible 
for their own behavior, but it 
is our responsibility to provide 
you (the students) with educa­
tion. We must inform you about 
the bad effects of alcohol abuse 
and that abusers will be dis­
ciplined." 
When asked of the benefits 
that came with his attendance 
of the National Forum on Sub­
stance Abuse Issues in Higher 
Education, Hickey replied that 
the invitation meant a wonder­
ful opportunity for both himself 
and Molly Sullivan to gain 
knowledge on the subject of 
substance abuse and gain the 
experience of professionals 
from other schools. 
"Education is a c~tre for 
problems," Hickey said. Hope­
fully, as people begin to realize 
the seriousness of abuse, the 
problem will begin to deminish. 

P.M. Theodore's. Sponsored by the International Graduate Student Committee of the GSU. FILM: ECLIPSE OF REASON Film with Discussion, 7:30 P.M. CSC, Right to Life 
US ROLE IN THIRD WORLD DEVELOPMENT Dr. Denis Goulet, NO Professor, 7:00 pm at the CSC, Sponsored by World Hunqer Coalition. 
HOSPITALITY LUNCH 

11:30 A.M. to 1:00 P.M., CSC Coffee House Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace FILM: CRY REASON 
. 
. 

A film about Beyers Naude, the leading white South African dissident who holds an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame. 8:00 P.M. at the CSC, with discussion led by Peter Walshe, Professor and Director of African Studies, Notre Dame, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network. 
"RESPECT FOR HUMAN DIFFERENCES AS A POTENTIAL OUTCOME OF CULTURAL DIVERSITY" Roland Smith, Executive Assistant to the President, Notre Dame. 12:15 P.M. to 1:00 P.M. CSC, Room 124. ANTI-APARTHEID RALLY 12:15 P.M. steps of Administration Building, Sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network. 
"PASSOVER TO PEACEMAKING: MAKING FRIENDS OF ENEMIES" Retreat with Jim Forest, General Secretary of the International Fellowship of Reconciliation, Author, Peace Activist, 3:00-8:00 P.M. with dinner, CSC Registr.ation $5.00 at the CSC. Sponsored by Pax Christi. 

page 4 The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 

New bacteria turns PCBs into less-harmful forms 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Oxygen­starved bacteria working in sediment beneath the Hudson River are transforming toxic PCB compounds into less dan­gerous forms, raising hopes of a significant easing of a major PCB cleanup problem nation­wide, researchers said Thursday. 
The resulting types of PCBs do not accumulate in living tissue, a government scientist said. 
The researchers from Mic­higan State University said their results with anaerobic or oxygen-free bacteria could mean that not every con­taminated sediment would have to be cleaned up, and cleanups that do proceed might be much less risky than people have assumed. · 
"If it is true, it could have enormous significance," said Richard Morgenstern, head of the Office of Policy Analysis in the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Sally Valdez Cogliani, an EPA ecologist and sediment specialist, said the discovery showed promise, but she was more restrained than Mor­genstern. "Probably most sit­uations are not anaerobic. I'd wonder about its general ap­plicability," she said. 
PCBs are a common toxic waste problem. In some of the 

better-known cases, they have Congress required EPA to contaminated harbor sedi-act because of findings that




t--••··················
~ My Clone is 21! ~ ie Nancy, "don' worry, ie 
iC • 
iC iC 
iC iC 
iC • 
iC • 
iC • ~ Be Happy!" Love, Mom & ~ iC all Woidats iC 
................................................ 
*···················~ 
• 
• 
!• HEY IRISH! i• i• LET'S GO INSANE!! !• 
•
• i SIGN UP FOR THE IRISH ! ! INSANITY CHEERING SECTION i i FOR THE ND HOCKEY AND ! ! BASKETBALL. BE APART OF A i i TRUE IRISH SPIRIT ALL ! i SEASON LONG!! :
. :• 
: SIGN UP LIST IN SUB OFFICE OR ·: : CALL 239-7757 BY FRIDAY! :
• 



i• GO IRISH! !•
•
• 
• 
··································~············· 
ments at New Bedford, Mass., and Waukegan, Ill. 
Millions of pounds of PCBs were used from 1929 to 1977. The nation's utilities are faced with the massive task of drain­ing them from their trans­formers by the early 1990s, and PCB spills all over the landscape are a frequent prob­lem. 
The Michigan State findings appear to substantiate a theory put forward by General Electric Corp., source of most Hudson River PCBs, in a dis­pute with New York State over cleanup plans for the river. 
The New York State Depart­ment of Environmental Con­servation said it wanted to dredge up and place in a landfill 360,000 cubic yards of PCB "hot spots" in the Hudson River above Albany resulting from legal GE waste dis­charges from 1951 to 1973. 
R.W. Groneman, spokesman for the depa.rtment, said of the new findings, "It's a good the­ory, but what does it mean in the real world?" 
Until EPA banned manufac­ture in 1977, some mixtures of the 209 possible PCB com­pounds, polychlorinated bip­henyls, were widely used as coolants and insulators in elec­trical equipment such as trans­formers and capacitors. The fluids do not transmit electricity and are extremely difficult to burn. 
· 
PCBs appeared to cause can­cer, skin and reproductive dis­orders in laboratory animals. 
PCBs accumulate in fatty tissue, and findings of high levels in fish led New York aut­horities to ban the taking of striped bass .from the Hudson or ocean waters inshore. 
The Michigan State re­
searchers inoculated a com­
mon, heavily chlorinated com­
mercial PCB with PCB-free 
bacteria from one of the Hud­
son sites. Sixteen weeks later, 
they found that 53 percent of 
all the chlorine had been 
removed, and molecules with 
only one or two chlorine atoms 
had increased from 9 percent 
to 88 percent of the sample. 
The oxygen-free bacteria do not attack single-and double­chlorine PCBs, the researchers acknowledged. But Frederick Kutz, a ·biologist in EPA's Of­fice of Research and Develop­ment, said the low-chlorine PCBs don't accumulate in the bodies of fish. 
Writing in the issue of Sci­ence magazine appearing Friday, the researchers--John Quensen III, James Tiedje and Stephen Boyd--said it appeared that the bacteria had evolved specifically to attack PCBs. Similar bacteria from non-PCB. hudson sediments had no ef­feet. 
..-------------. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
""Support the 
~ ~!.~DK:9.tQ~~ 
~-=--=--=--=-======-----------­

I .. X;~ 5:c:o 
~ on&n~r 

8=.30_.:...12._ :oo S\fpan CtY1~'l 
;,· 
:~. 

· Wh t' d ? AP Photo
a s up oc . 

What a lucky gardener-Fabio Bianchi from Mendrisio, Switzerland models 
his large carrot. The carrot, which was from his backyard, weighed in 
at 1125 grams.. 




him, too! 
Love, Karla & Michelle 

Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 The Observer page 5 

Quest winners 
The Observer I Lisa D'Anzi 
Flanner and P.E. halls win the pie contest thanks to their contestants Mike Wolfe and Kerry Meehan in the S.U.B. sponsored Quest for the Crown activities. 

p(t{F'-'!._~ 



me Weekertd Dinner Specials 
OR 
Regular Menu WHARF RESTAURAN 
----·-·--­



Computer virus infects six universities' computers 
Associated Press cessful by about 1 in the mor­He said university officials ning," about five hours after it disconnected their computers 
A large-scale computer bug was discovered. from outside networks about 8 infected systems at six major "This is for unclassified, non­a.m. CST, when the virus was universities across the country secured systems," said Gar­first discovered, and connected Thursday, including Massa-berson. "It did not affect our them again about noon when chusetts Institute of Technolo-classified national defense sys­the system was apparently gy, but officials said they were tern at all." purged of the invading pro­unaware of any damage. The lab's work includes gram. 
· The bug infected hundreds of design of the nation's nuclear computers but apparently weapons and key work in the Contact with other univer­didn't destroy any files or re-Strategic Defense Initiative. sities showed the "virus" also search, said Professor James "We are now powering back infected computers at the Bos­Bruce, vice president for infor-up and should have all these ton University, Purdue Univer­mation systems at Massachu-unclassified systems back on sity, the University of Wiscon­setts Institute of Technology in line by tomorrow," he said. sin at Madison and the Cambridge, Mass. "This has the feel of some-University of California at 
"We're not crippled," Bruce body who was sitting around Berkeley, Kline said. said. "It first showed up in the thinking one night over a beer, middle of the night and spread 'Hey, I can write a virus. Let's "This is the first time that I very virulently during the see what happens,"' said Char­know of that it (virus infection) day." ley Kline, senior research has happened on this scale to 
At the Lawrence Livermore programmer with the Comput­larger systems," Kline said. National Laboratories, in ing Services Office at the Kline said the virus traveled Livermore, Calif., spokesman University of Illinois at between computer systems Jeff Garberson said a computer Urbana-Champaign, Ill. through a process in which 
problem was discovered late Kline said the "virus," or compu~r operators usually 
HAMMES Notre Dame Bookstore 20°/o Discount on all Hardbound Trade Books (except Notre Dame Titles) Starting Friday Nov. 4th Ending after Christmas Dec. 26th Ideal for Gifts! Hours: 1989 CalendarsSat. Nov. 5th A Large Selection Available8:00 to 5:30  

Wednesday. program, entered the system send "electronic mail" mes­
"We ... took action to con-through a nationwide network, sages to each other. He said tain it, which means to stop it and began having the local sys­once the use messages were from spreading to other com-tern generate copies of the received, they linked up to puter systems. We were sue-virus. command controls, and told the 
local computer to make copies. He said the copies then sought James E. out other connected machin­ery. 

McMeel M.D. He said that as far as he knows, only locations using
Coroner!Democrat 
VAX computers, made by Dig­ital Equipment of Maynard,


ND Class of 1950 
Mass. ; or Sun computers made by Sun Microsystems Inc., of

17 years of experience 
California, were affected. But he estimated that about 75 per­

Chief Deputy Coroner for the past 8 years 
cent of all national networks use such computers. 

--------------------------------------------------------.....1 


page 6 The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 

,,-,. ,~; ·~, 
'\....• 'tl· • 
AP Photo 

Ninth anniversary 
Iranian demonstrators, chanting "Death to America", anniversary of the seizure of the former U.S. Embassy march down Tehran streets as they observe the ninth in Tehran Wednesday. 

Chubb Insurance agrees to pay drought damage claims of Hoosier farmers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--A sub­sidiary of Chubb Insurance Group has agreed to pay drought damage claims from as many as 1,543 Indiana farm­ers who paid premiums for drought coverage but didn't receive policies, state officials said Thursday. 
Lt. Gov. John Mutz, the state's commissioner of agriculture, said the agree­ment in principle was reached with Federal Insurance Co., a subsidiary of Chubb. 
The agreement will become final when it is approved by a federal court in Cincinnati where a class action suit against the insurer is pending, Mutz said. 
Mutz called the agreement "a fair, reasonable settlement that would put dollars in the pockets of many Indiana farm­ers who have been hit hard by the drought." 
"We've come a long, long way in terms of doing someth­ing for farmers in this state," said Mutz, the Republican can­didate for governor. 
Federal offered drought in­surance in Indiana and at least nine other states. The company had not planned for the demand for the coverage and later at­tempted to tell farmers that only a limited amount of the insurance was available, Mutz said 


Come Join Us For Live DJ Current Dance Music Great Sandwiches *Student Discounts* 
open: Tuesday Saturday 5 p.m. 3 a.m. 
Across from the Marriott Free Parking in Senor Kelly's lot 
,............................................ 
•
•
•
•
• 
~ 
BACCHUS sponsors mock drunk driving trial 
By RON SEVERINO 
News Staff 
Notre Dame Varsity Basket­ball Coach Digger Phelps acted as the defendant in a mock drunk driving trial sponsored by BACCHUS as part of Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Phelps played a fictitious character who pleaded guilty as charged to reckless homocide, involuntary manslaughter, and driving un­der the influence of alcohol. His character was a visitor from Philadelphia who, after drink­ing alcohol to a blood level con­tent of .13 percent at a pre­game party before the ND-Michigan game, caused an accident resulting in the death of his son (a Notre Dame stu­dent) and injuries to others. 
"The guilt would have to be awful if you killed your son," said Phelps afterwards. "The 





Copies 

kinko·s·
after five the copy center 
When you need copies after 18187 StAte Road 23 hour.;, depend on Kinko's, the 

271-G398
copy center. We're open late to seiVe you. 



obvious lesson is to take a cab." Phelps gave his thoughts on the case after the sentence was reached. 
Carmen Belefonte, who is an attorney from Philadelphia, was Phelp's defense attorney. 

Michael Barnes, head prosecuting attorney in St. Joseph County, acted out the prosecuting attorney's role in the trial. 
The mock trial consisted of only the presentations of the at­torneys and the decisions of three separate student judges: seniors Chris Murphy and Jean­nine Hallenbeck and junior 
Amy Weber. 

All three judges recognized the case to be a Class D felony, but each minimized the recom­mended sentence (two years of imprisonment in St. Joseph County) to two years of proba­tion in Philadelphia. 
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:30 &QWQRKs 

-------------------~-~-~--~--~------.......------------~---------~---------~ 
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
Election 
continued from page 1
.. 
show and later at campaign ap-/II>E!thl~lc ~I'QtliP$tSi1@~1ie~;e;••< >I 
pearances in Illinois and else­where, Bush said any political wounds would heal in the weeks 
after the election. "I think the I>II<Litterac~y fl~~!€1:3 ~~r<:I3J]t; ~~~~ 1 ~--...:........, 
country will come together," he said. The vice president also renewed his no-new-taxes pledge. 
Bush heatedly denied that his attacks on Dukakis over the Massachusetts prison furlough program had racist overtones 1· •••:CIIrnelt,;::n~lpic~l'>..>.. for citing the case of Willie Hor­ton Jr., who is black. Horton, a convicted murderer, bru-\II (5o-.~lr@enlt~ Flep@Uc. <3ah1~•·•i(:l(!ei)IE@;IeBl~J ~~~tth~ > talized a Maryland couple after escaping, but Bush said his commercial "didn't have any reference to his race and no picture on it." 
He said Dukakis countered with an ad showing a picture of a Hispanic prisoner who had L___•_M_o_n_e_ta_ry_u_n_lt_:_R_u_fiy_a_a_.--------------,----_J 
escaped from a federal prison program and committed crimes. 
"You're looking at a man who is one of compassion, of concern, and yes, I was out front for civil rights and I will be again," Bush said. 
OPEN FOR DINNER CARRY-OUTS AVAILABLE FINE EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT 
APrr. Dean Caple 
CQ Up 
Diplomats in Colombo and New Delhi said before the In-continued from page 1 dian soldiers arrived that 
Gayoom's troops were in gen­meeting of the Cabinet political eral control of Male but the at­affairs committee and three In-tackers held the radio and tele­dian warships also headed to vision stations and the Islamic Male. College. 
PRIVATE PARTIES UP TO 100 PEOPLE YOUR HOST -ROBERTO PARISI 
"The Italian Restaurant" 
Spaghetti Mostaccioli Linguini Gnocchi. Pizza Ravioli Tortellini Arancini Manicotti Bracioletti Filone lmbottito Lasagna A La Parisi's Fettucini Alfredo Bucatini Con Broccoli Alia Calabresa All Agllo E Olio Chicken Cacciatora Breaded Veal Cutlet A La Parmigiana 
232-4244 
page 7 

Effective hall fellow program studied 
By KATHY RYAN 
News staff 
Student government and John Goldrick, associate vice president of residence life, are trying to begin effective Hall Fellows Programs in Alumni, Keenan, Knott, and Siegfried Halls. 
The Hall Fellows Program was set up to better relations between students and faculty. The professors participate in dorm activities and encourage and promote academic pro­grams within the dorm. 
Chris Devron, student fac­ulty relations commissioner for student government, is working to begin programs in dorms which have no hall fel­lows and to upgrade programs in dorms whose programs have not been successful in the past. 
Devron will serve as a resource person by examining each dorm's present program and sharing the good charac­teristics of each with those dorms which need assistance in setting up new programs. His goal is to have an effective pro­gram in every dorm by the end of the academic year, but he feels each dorm is responsible for the success of its program. 
"We have had a lot of support from John Goldrick and the Of­fice of Residence Life,'' Devron said. Mike Keegan, student government's executive coord­inator for political, cultural, and social concerns and a res­ident of Alumni, is working with his R.A.'s and Rector to 
begin a Hall Fellows Program that will "take learning out of the classroom and put it in a social situation." 
"It will be a different way for guys to get together and to form more of an intellectual bond," said Keegan. 
Alumni is still in the process of voting for its fellows. The R.A.'s will ask their sections for nominations, and they, along with Keegan and their Rector, will make the choices. 
Siegfried Hall President Megan Hines is equally enthu­siastic about setting up a pro­gram. "We are starting fresh and are using this program to begin a tradition of academic incorporation in the dorm." 
Bush's gender gap remains 
Associated Press 

page 8 The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 





Soviets would like to see four more years of Reagan • 
Associated Press the party daily Pravda as a candidate the Soviets wanted to 
missile-toting cowboy, now is see in the White House. MOSCOW--The Soviets have portrayed as a reliable bar­Gerasimov said the Soviets a clear favorite in next week's gaining partner who sat down would like a prompt summit 
U.S. presidential election. Un­with President Mikhail Gor­with the next president of the fortunately for them, his name bachev and negotiated a nu­United States, whoever he may is Ronald Reagan, and the Con­clear missile treaty and in­be. stitution won't let him run stigated negotiations in Officials acknowledge their again. Geneva for a 50 percent cut in cautious non-partisanship is 
As George Bush and Michael strategic arms. motivated by fears that Dukakis make their last cam­But such expressions of showing a preferance for one paign swings before Tuesday's respect don't mean Soviet offi­man could brand him "the election, Soviets are waxing cials have fallen wholeheart­Kremlin's candidate" and nostalgic about the outgoing edly for Reagan. Shishlin made doom his chances for election. eight-year tenant in the White a point of rejecting outright his "Rival candidates will al­House who once called their most recent pronouncement legedly take advantage of our country an "evil empire" and that the diplomatic warming kind words and try to discredit joked about bombing it into between Moscow and Washing­the opponent who 'merited the oblivion. ton was due to the Reagan ad­praise' of the Soviet press," 
They are also looking ahead ministration policy of wrote commentator Melor to a Bush victory, although negotiating "from a position of Sturua. "Does anyone without apparent relish. strength." seriously believe that the So­
"To be quite frank, I can't Kremlin watchers have been viet press can make or break say I've personally been hard-put to find a preference in U.S. presidents? that is, to put carried away by the state­Soviet news accounts or official it mildly, nonsense." ments of either Bush or statements for either the Re­Sturua's article, published in Dukakis when they spoke of publican vice president or the the weekly Moscow News, Soviet-American relations," Democratic Massachusetts blasted Soviet media for overly Nikolai Shishlin, a spokesman governor. cautious coverage of the U.S. for the Communist Party "We prefer the winner," race, and included this unusual Central Committee, told a news Foreign Ministry spokesman endorsement: "Personally, I briefing Thursday. Gennady Gerasimov said prefer Dukakis, but I think 
Reagan, once caricatured by Thursday when asked which Bush will win." 
272-7376 


Position available. Immediate opening. Inquire within. 
It's not an easy life. In places from Chicago to Bangla­desh, you'll serve the poor and rich, the aged and young, the educated and uneducated. The' life demands prayer, hard work and vision. The rewards are great ... even in this lile. You will have opportuniti.-s to develop your potential. You will con­tinue the work of Christ, share His mission and respond to world needs. There is no joy in this world to compare with that. 
By the witness of our lives, Brothers serve in: Missions, Education, Social, Pastoral. Health Care, Youth and Retreat Work. Farming, Maintenance and other trades and profes­sions that help to strengthen Christian Community. 
For more information, Contact; Brother Don Gibbs. C.S.C. P.O. Box 460 Notre Dame,lndiana 46556 
219/233-2191 
,.,,_._ ·-·-· '\ ··' .J, •••• 




Associated Press p.m. at Newcomer Jewelry Store, said Sgt. Bob Ruff of the 
NAPPANEE, Ind.-A Nap­Indiana State Police post in panee police officer died Bremen. Thursday after being shot in a downtown jewelry store and his Ruff said he did not know suspected assailant was in sur­what caused the shooting to oc­gery, officials said. cur. 
Brent Nine, 41, of Nappanee, died around 7 p.m. of a bullet State police said there might wound to the neck, said the nur­be two suspects in the case and sing supervisor at Elkhart Gen­that both had been in the eral Hospital, who asked that jewelry store Wednesday and she not be identified. allegedly tried to buy someth­
ing with a bad check. 
Another man, identified as Michael Steel, was in surgery, An eyewitness said four to she said. five shots were fired in rapid 
succession in Thursday's inci­Nine was shot shortly after 5 dent. 
-·············································· 
: SOPHOMORES~ Interested :
. •· 
: in the position of Sophomore : : Committee chairperson for Junior ! : Parent's Weekend? : 
: Applications available in the : : Office o1 Student Activities, 3rd : : Floor LaFortune. : : Due November 7th, 1988 by 5pm ~ 

fQOM THE TOWEQOf 
O'~HAG 




W0ND fm 
88.9 
5RING6 YOU TtiE 5E<£>T Of' Pro8ressive Classical New A8e Jazz i\nd a variety of fine i\rt.s and Informational Pro8rams 
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Mutz : Bayh seeks office only as a stepping stone 
Associated Press 
period that political profes­
sionals say can be crucial in 
Republican. gubernatorial deciding close elections. nominee John Mutz questioned Mutz, the lieutenant gover­Democrat Evan Bayh's desire nor, launched his latest attack to serve as governor on on Bayh during a campaign Thursday by claiming Bayh swing through South Bend, sees the office only as a step-Warsaw and Fort Wayne with ping stone in his political Sen. Richard Lugar, a heavy career. favorite to win a third term 
Bayh deflected the charge by next week. repeating that he plans to serve "I view the job of governor a full four-year term if he as a serious responsibility for defeats Mutz in next Tuesday's which I have been training for election. 22 years," said Mutz, who turns 
Meanwhile, GOP lieutenant 53 on Saturday. "I fear that my governor candidate Stephen opponent sees it as one more Goldsmith claimed Bayh would jewel for his political crown." be a budget l;>uster if elected McDaniel said of the state com­and Republicans confirmed mittee's borrowed money. their state committee has bor-Campaign finance reports rowed $400,000 for a last-released last week showed minute advertising blitz for Bayh had raised $3.2 million Mutz. and had $1 million on hand in 
The flurry of activity came mid-October while the Mutz with only five days left in the campaign had raised $3 million campaign and on the threshold and had $429,267 on hand. of the races' final weekend, a "I think it reveals their fund-
HAPPY B-DAY 
WILLIE! 
MAG, KAHL, MOHL, BOB, KEZ, MO, LINDA, & LAURA 
raising hasn't gone as well as they hoped and they need more money to try to resurrect John Mutz's campaign," Bayh cam­paign manager Joseph Hogsett said of the GOP borrowing. 
The office "involves so much more than cutting ribbons and should never be· used only as a stepping stone to fulfill other ambitions," said Mutz. 
Mutz noted that Bayh, 32, said in 1986 that he wanted to serve a full term as secretary of state. . "I don't know how long he things he can get away with short-circuiting the political process in Indiana," said Mutz. 
Bayh said he wants only to serve four years as governor, 
, 
f .., Firebomb attack 
Radical students hurl firebombs at 
then seek re-election. 
Asked if he would serve a full term as governor, he replied, "Absolutely. Yes." 
"I hope to have the kind of record that will recommend me for re-election, and that's what I'm intending to do," he said. "I will not run for another office during my term if I'm fortunate enough to win this campaign." 
Meanwhile in Indianapolis, Goldsmith, resurrecting a "Bayh Budget Buster" chart he first unveiled in June, claimed the Democrat has pro­posed programs that would cost the state an additional $571 million. 
Goldsmith said GOP es­timates put the cost of major Bayh proposals such as a homestead tax credit at $100 million, a child care tax credit at $110 million and an anti-drug program at more than $100 mil­lion. He offered smaller es­timates, which he called con­servative, for other Bayh proposals. · 
Bayh called the Goldsmith 
figures "wild and inaccurate." 
"We've totaled up the differ­ent proposals made in this cam­paign and the fact is, he and his running mate have pro­posed more new spending than I have," said Bayh, who took a six-city helicopter tour Thursday. 
.'II 
APphoto 
police during a Chun Doo-hwan for alleged corruption and human 

riot in Seoul to demand the arrest of former President rights abuses. 



It's FREE 
Have a good time ... Leave your Keys Behind!!! 


EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT!!! 

12:35 1:25 2:15 3:05 3:55 end
1. 
Campus View 

2. 
Five Points 


(across from Amoco) 12:50  1:40  2:30  3:20  
3. St. Louis & Corby  1:00  1:50  2:40  3:30  
4. Main Circle  1:10  2:00  2:50  3:40  
5. Library Circle  1:15  2:05  2:55  3:45  


Viewpoint
page 10 Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
Don't just vote, vote responsibly 
As a retired Notre Dame professor, I'm delighted to see the upsurge in po­litical involvement evidenced both by the registration of 2400 students, and by the good political coverage in The Observer's news and letters. As a res­ident of St. Joseph County for 51 years, I want to ask a favor of you: if you don't know anything about a particular local election, please don't vote in that par­ticular race. When you put your hand on the voting lever, you have taken hold of a two-edged sword. 
Julian Pleasants 
guest column 
Such a large bloc of new voters, as some writers to The Observer have ex­ultantly noted, can swing elections in small legislative districts. In a small New England town, a group of students at the nearby college went en masse to the town meeting and voted to build a new town hall 180-feet long and 6-feet wide. That was merely frivolous. But the defeat of qualified local candidates by unqualified candidates when a bloc of voters blindly follow party labels or merely flex their muscles, would be an injustice and possibly a local disaster. 
The race for Indiana's 3rd district Representative in Congress is more complicated. Clearly you have a stake in the composition of the next Congress, which deals with national issues. You have the right and duty to be concerned not only about issues that affect you directly as students, but also with is­sues that affect the disadvantaged of this country, issues which are among a government'~ reasons for being. 
But making national laws is only half a Congressperson's job. A representa­tive must also oversee the application of legislated burdens and benefits in his-her district. This part of a represen­tative's job is as integral to our govern­ment's functioning as the role of lawyers who represent clients in law­suits. The representative's energy pro­vides a counterweight to sometimes ponderous administrative bureaucracy. The more permanent residents of a locality don't want voters to ignore this role in a concentration on national issues. 
A representative should also in some way represent hel!his constituents' views to the Congress. There is no for­mula for doing this in a representative democracy. But Congressman Hiler's idea seems to be that once we have voted him in we have acceptd his ideological agenda 100 percent, and he can ignore, e.g., a majority position in this district against Contra aid. But this devalues a fundamental reason for democracy, the value of collective wis­dom. Please, if you know little or noth­ing about the 3rd District race, think twice about voting on it. 
I was delighted to see that 750 stu­dents attended the Ward-Hiler debated on campus. That must be a landmark event in real, not mock, political in­volvement by Notre Dame students. 
But even those who attended must be aware, as all of us must be, that TV has conditioned us to judge style rather than substance. It is a conceit of ours, ·fostered by TV, that we can judge a person's qualifications by the way 
heshe looks and sounds. 

We forget that histrionics, the ancient 
art of appearing other than we are, has 
just become a science, based on instant 
feedback. The actor-producer John 
Houseman, who just died, once said in 
some wonderment that after his role as 
law professor in "The Paper Chase," 
and after his TV commercials, a survey 
showed that, next to Walter Cronkite, 
he was the most credible person on TV. 
Yet we knew nothing of him personally. 
There are more dependable ways of 
knowing a candidate. 

So please remember that an uni­
nformed or misinformed vote is worse 
than no vote at all. 

Julian Pleasants is a professor emeritus of microbiology for the Uni­versity. 
A simple decision in a difficult election 
At a meeting over the break in Princeton, I was conversing with a microbiologist from Oak Ridge and took the opportunity to ask him about recent revelations regarding atomic weapons' plants. He shook his head and retorted: ''A virtually unlimited budget with no accountability." He went on to explain how the bombmakers from a separate agency under the Department of Energy, receiving some 85 percent of its overall budget, have tended to use "national security" to ward off over­sight. 
David Burrell 
guest column 
Being a researcher in atomic energy uses himself, he was appalled at the equipment waste he noted in the weap­ons sector, yet also remarked at the outstanding people involved at higher levels. So the failure in oversight is largely political, as we witnessed in the White House reaction to these revela­tions: Praise for the Department of En­ergy, and "no problem." 
The problem, then, consists in a highly sophisticated avoidance of ac­countability on the part of the very people whom democracy deems to be accountable to the populace: public ser­vants. Hardly a secret--journalists have dubbed it the "teflon effect" --this administration has used public rela­tions expertise to perfect the avoidance of accountability into a fine art. Part of the strategy involved trashing inves­tigative reporting as "scapegoating'.'--· so the man who continued to abuse his role as director of the Department of Justice is said to have been a "victim" of journalistic overkill. 
A patent tactic for continuing to betray the public trust: ward off ac-
Doonesbury 
countability by making it difficult to ascertain what is going on, then take umbrage when those charged with facilitating public scrutiny have to barge through your barriers to get at the news. (Let us not forget that it was a Beirut daily which blew the whistle on what became "Irangate;" nor did the vice president respond to any ques­tion on that matter during either debate, beyond acknowledging .that there may have been "mistakes"-­Richard Nixon's word for trivializingculpability. · 
Yet perhaps the real culprit in all of this is ourselves: Are we too timid in demanding an accounting? Are we afraid to be made to appear intrusive? If we have been intimidated, then we have already begun to lose touch with our democratic legacy. And that is not only threatening to us, but also poten­tially catastrophic for the rest of the world. For America's position of power and potential for leadership makes the rest of the world hostage to our political system, as the nuclear potential we share with the USSR has delivered life itself into the hands of both of us. Lest these facts threaten to paralyze us; however, they actually lead to a remarkably simple decision process for a prudent choice on Nov. 8. 
For the more staggering the respon­sibility of American leadership, the clearer it becomes that we have no choice but to select a prudent public servant for our chief executive. Since no single person can claim sufficient expertise in the complexities of domes­tic budgets or foreign affairs, the least (and the most) we can ask is the judi­ciousness associated with prudence in human affairs, seasoned by public ser­vice. Moreover, not only can we ask it; but we must also require it. Yet since only three of the candidates can be said to possess this quality (with a reserva­
~,SIR. 
/A/H&R£'5 YOUR. 
PJeR/3 TRY­
YOUNG RUNNING 
ING7VHIT 
MAT£3.? I WAS 
7H&GmUNf? 
HOPIN<J 70 CON­
RIJNNINGl 
GMTUIA~ HIM. 
I 
\ 
tion to be noted below), a simple cal­
culus of prudence demands that we vote 
for the ticket containing two of the 
three. 
For abstention is in effect a vote, and 
selecting a potential president devoid of this quality would be an irresponsible act, and the reflections on America's role in the world add up to only one conclusion: an irresponsible vote by an American verges on culpable negligence in a world context. The reservation, by the way, does not leave any room to speculate . whether the junior senator from Indiana could be said to possess the requisite qualities, which general consensus holds he does not, but wonders whether the same public-relations strategems which this administration has used so effectively to escape accountability may have in­fluenced the vice president's choice of a running mate, and so leaves one won­dering about his prudence. Moreover, . the stated motives have backfired: All 
the yuppies I know are far too intelli­gent to elect one of their own to public office! 
Yet despite that shadow, I believe that three of the candidates--but only three--would pass an impartial test for prudent public servants. So what baffles me is to find people willing to let preferences for party or ideology obscure this simple decision calculus. But I may be missing something, so I have tried to represent the argument as succinctly as possible, in hopes that others may help me with it. For despite the vagaries of the campaign, which compounded the difficult issues by failing to raise them, I found it hear­tening to discover a simple rule for cas­ting a prudent and responsible vote-­quite independent of party allegiance or ideological preference. 
Father David Burrell is the Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Professor in the College of Arts and Letters, where he teachers philosophy and theology. 
P.O. Box Q 

Bush uses the NO Administration 
Dear Editor: 
As one of the few Dukakis supporters who was able to obtain tickets to the "major address" made by Vice Presi­dent Bush, I was dismayed at the spec­tacle I encountered. What was billed as a "non-partisan lecture" by George Bush was nothing more than an over­blown Republican rally. While I do not question Bush's right to come to our campus and address the student body, I do take issue with the fact that it was sponsored in the name of a University 
Garry Trudeau 
HONeY? HIHATCOt> IU {R fJPAP&5 HAN­
fX) IA/13 Oi& /A/ANT" IT, /J&AR.
\ 
...........
<!# 
institution, the Law School's White Cen­ter for Law and Government 

To associate our University in such a manner with a partisan rally was en­tirely inappropriate. I also feel it was incredibly naive for members of the ad­ministration to assume that it could have been any different with only one week remaining until election day. If the College Republicans or Students for Bush-Quayle had wanted to sponsor the rally, that would have been fine. The University administration, however, should have no part in partisan politics. 
Karen E. Stemm Knott Hall Nov. 3, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"Through sports, a coach can offer a boy a way to sneak up on the mystery of manhood." 
Pat tonroy 

~ 
Viewpoint
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
page 11 

P.O. Box Q 
NO manipulated by Bush campaign 
Dear Editor: 
After seeing the good name of Notre Dame and our number one football ranking used as backdrop for George Bush's presidential campaign, two ob­servations are in order. 
First, members of the Republican club on campus snatched up almost all the tickets to the event. Then, the leaders of the plan couldn't understand why so many students were angry. They told the media that other groups on campus were notified of the actual distribution time and had an equal chance to get tickets to see the vice president. Even if this claim were true, they are missing the point. 
It would have been just as bad if the Democrats on campus had conspired to take advantage of the distribution time. The point is, the average student, who is affiliated with neither group, didn't even have a chance to see the Vice President of the United States. What were the involved Republicans afraid of? Bush seeing the Notre Dame student body or the Notre Dame student body seeing Bush? 
The other observation is a disappoint­ment over the manipulation of Notre Dame by the Bush campaign. Billed as a lecture, the vice president's speech was a partisan message to an even more partisan audience. I agree it was naive of the University to expect Bush to stay away from the campaign. However, he was invited to give a speech that was on policy and not on politics. It is ironic that the agreement Vice President Bush broke was to speak not on the race or his opponent but on, you guessed it, ethics. 
Michael Carrigan Dillon Hall Nov. 2, 1988 
Ward: a consistent pro-life advocate 
Dear Editor: 
There are many Americans who op­pose abortion as the taking of human life and who also oppose the nuclear arms race as an unprecedented threat to life. Those of us with those views are often deeply frustrated by the limited choice of candidates presented to us by both major parties at election time. If a candidate is pro-life on abortion, he or she usually favors (in practice if not in rhetoric) more buildup of nuclear weapons that fuel the arms race and leave us and our children less secure. On the other side, candidates who sup­port meaningful arms control often ig­nore the right to life of the 1.5 million unborn children who are aborted each year in our country. 
This election, voters in the 3rd Dis­trict congressional race will have a chance to vote for someone who sup­ports a consistent ethic of life. Many local people don't realize that Tom Ward is pro-life on abortion: He believes that all human life is sacred from the moment of conception on. He opposes abortion and will support a con­stitutional amendment banning abor­tion except to protect the life of the mot­her. 
Tom Ward is pro-life on arms con­trol: He supports measures to reduce both U.S. and Soviet nuclear arsenals and negotiations for a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. In addition, Tom Ward is pro-life on the family is­sues of poverty and unemployment. He favors programs that are truly pro­family, that will help people in time of need and enable people to leave welfare for meaningful employment. 
For his courage to be consistent on respect for life in the womb, in the fam­ily, and in the future, Ward may lose some support. Those of us who agree with his consistent respect for life can let Tom Ward know that there is a real constituency for this position by our vote on Nov. 8. 
Willion DeMars 
Off-campus 
Nov. 3, 1988 
Students for Bush not at fault 
Dear Editor: 
As Chairman of Students for BuslvQuayle, it is my duty to further clarify the ticket controversy surround­ing the vice president's visit. I wish to reiterate that there was no organized attempt to purposefully mislead the or­ganizations on campus. In addition, it was unfortunate that the Student Activ­ities Office released a flyer announcing incorrect distribution times. Further­more, the University accepts all re­sponsibility for the incorrect times and information. 
I was notified on Saturday of the cor­rect distribution time. By the end of the day, every major student government group and media source had been notified of the correct information. As an obviously partisan organization, Students for BuslvQuayle proceeded to inform Republican students of the 8 
a.m. distribution time. The statement that Student Government did not know of any changes until Sunday is com­pletely false. I personally notified a member of the Political Concerns Com­mittee. 
The belief that a Republican group 
such as Students for BuslvQuayle would 
not have been notified by the Bush Ad­
vance Team is naive. Of course we were 
notified. For that matter the belief that 
the Bush Advance Team, or even Stu­
dents for BuslvQuayle, should have 
notified the Dukakis£entsen campaign 
is equally naive. Let's not fool our­
selves. 
On Monday evening the Student Sen­ate issued a resolution stating "The Stu­dent Senate regrets the manner in which the lack of information was taken advantage of by politically interesed students in an effort to prevent the majority of students from having the oppc·rtunity to attend." Correct time or not, Students for BuslvQuayle would have made every effort to inform Re­publican students about the vice pres­ident's visit. Enthusiastic support with only seven days before the national election is important. 
I personally regret the inference that somehow 800 college Republicans are not representative of normal college students desiring to see the head of their national ticket. In many ways my personal integrity and honor were ques­tioned this weekend, but misinforma­tion produces misconceptions. I can ac­cept that. We associated with Students for BuslvQuayle, our grassroots effort to notify Republicans of the vice pres­ident's visit was a fantastic show of hustle and spirit. We were better or­ganized in every sense of the word. How can we be faulted for wanting to en­thusiastically support the next presi­dent of the United States? 
Tom Ehrhardt Chairman, Students for Bush!Quayle in '88 Nov. 2, 1988 

'88 Election a sign of American decline 
Dear Editor: 
The future has been on my mind late­ly. As I watch the U.S. preparing to elect a president, I find little to inspire me with hope. The next president will either be a liar, a loser or both. What a prospect. It is not a very healthy sign when we must choose from such mediocrity. 
As Marcellus said in Shakespeare's "Hamlet," "something is rotten in the state of Denmark" (l,iv). Today, this could easily be said of the U.S. I once thought there were solutions, but now I am not so sure anymore. 
The U.S. has huge budget and trade deficits and, while it is true that the unemployment rate has dropped, it is also true that the purchasing power of the average wage has dropped in the last decade. There are many other facts such as these, which in themselves sug­gest that something is wrong here. Far more disturbing than any of these is the fact that many Americans dismiss almost all of them as being either wrong or unimportant. Many more are not even familiar with them. The "Great Communicator" claimed that facts are stupid things, yet it seems to me that he has never had to worry about them as the American voter is so woe­fully underinformed, and misinformed. 
The point is this: The average Amer­ican voter is not better off now than he was eight years ago, yet he stubbornly believes that he is. The thing that worries me is, what will have to happen before people realize that they have been fooled by others and by them­selves. Probably nothing will happen, and we will keep on moving towards Orwellian realities. That worries me more. The U.S. is in permanent decline. Much as I fear the calamity that would set us straight, I fear its absence even 
more. Communism will not defeat us though we like to flatter ourselves that only something as powerful as the So· viet Union could. No, we will be beaten by "the little man within," who em­bodies selfishness, ignorance and ar­rogance. 
If all you believe in is America, then that is pessimism. But I am no pessimist--I am a realist and an idealist. When America falls I will sur­vive because I have an identity distinct from patriotism. I do not believe that Coke and Big Macs are at the apex of human civilization, and I certainly will not die for them. As someone once said, "patriotism is the last refuge of scoundrels." How true. We are too stupid to believe in something, as this free society encourages us to do, so we simply believe in the society itself. Now, anyone who advocates change be­comes a traitor and a coward. Surely that is not what America should be. 
I cannot recall his exact words, but I believe it was Kierkegaard who ex­pressed his amazement at how hard we fight for the freedom of speech, while we do not even use the freedom we have always had: The freedom of thought. Wake up America, because you are likely to die in your sleep. 
Evan Smyth Off-campus Oct. 31, 1988 
Bush 'lecture' just another pep rally 
Dear Editor: 
We had thought that a campaign rally was one thing, and that a university lecture was another. In a campaign rally a candidate delivers his slogans to a crowd of the faithful; in a lecture a speaker presents a reasoned argu­ment and then answers questions. We are disturbed that Notre Dame recently allowed the Bush campaign to deliver one thing under the guise of the other. How many White Center for Law and Government lectures are preceded by the Ball State University Marching Band? For how many does it just hap­pen that those likely to disagree with the speaker are almost completely ex­cluded? How many University lectur-. ers play to anti-intellectual sentiment with sneering references to "charts and graphs"? 
The University dropped the ball on this one. While Americans from every point on the political spectrum com­plain that the campaign has been short on substance and long on the sound bite, Notre Dame pandered to the media con­sultants. To the many Bush supporters who may not be disturbed by what hap­pened on Tuesday, we would ask this question: What would you have thought if Notre Dame had been used to stage a Dukakis rally under the guise of a lecture? The question should be a non­partisan one. Dukakis supporters would have been embarrassed for him and for Notre Dame had it been his rally on Tuesday. 
All Americans concerned for the in­tegrity of our political process should be alarmed by the · engineering of audiences to serve as enthusiastic backdrops to evening news sound bites. If it wants to be regarded as a major university, Notre Dame needs to start acting like one, using its leverage to raise the standards of national debate instead of letting its name and symbols be appropriated for political purposes. Notre Dame should avoid even the ap­pearance of accommodating the slick media consultants who cheapen our na­tional deliberations. 
Stephen Fallon Assistant Professor Clark Power Associate Professor Program of Liberal Studies Nov. 3, 1988 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Moltt KHien News Editor .............................. .......... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark McLaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Marl\ Ridgeway Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ............... ......... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .......... Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 


KELLY JURAS accent writer 
W
acky, zany and off­beat. These three adjectives charac­terize the Rice University Band. Otherwise known as the Marching Owl Band (MOB), the group has chosen to brave hordes of loyal Fighting Irish fans and the South Bend No­vember chills by making its first ever appearance at Notre Dame this weekend. 
The Rice University Band, originally a small-sized, con­servative band due to the number of undergraduates, changed its style fifteen years ago to stimulate greater stu­dent interest. Currently referred to as radical and ec­centric, the MOB has evolved into a successful student group that has been reviewed on the front page of the Wall Street Journal and in Playboy Magazine. 
Do you wonder how the MOB gained recognition in these publications? Has the group dared to drop their trousers on field as several members of the Stanford Band once did? Mr. Ken Dye, MOB band director com­mented on the true focus of these articles: "We areal­ways the underdog and our 
MARCHING OWL BAND 


actors who use a football field for their stage. Their script consists of several scenes (or tunes) , and after each one a program announcer informs the crowd of the story line's progression. 
Since you will be experienc­ing your first football musical this weekend, you can expect the MOB's costumes, forma­tions and music to reflect the nature of their script. You will not be able to help but notice their distinctive uni­forms. The band members will storm the field in fedora hats, dark blue vests and slacks, and sunglasses, of course, to protect thP.\r 
program is compared to others in controversial public interest.'' 
Well, what actually makes the MOB different? Besides its catchy title, the MOB does not march. Rather, the 255­m ember team performs an eight minute extravaganza during which a pre-planned musical script is acted out. The enthusiastic program co­ordinator, Cherri Carbonara, upon hearing my intent to write this article, exclaimed, "It's (the program) musical and fun and funny! ! ! " 
The band members who sing and dance as well as perform musically are, thus, 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 

anonymity. Show assistants often share the field and dress in outlandish costumes to act out the characters in the script. If you suddenly feel several squirts of water on your face, don't pull out your Notre Dame umbrellas. The MOB members, fans and friends, each equipped with his own squirt gun, are merely protecting themselves from those in the crowd who may not appreciate the 
MOB's unique sense of 
humor. 
On Saturday, if you think that your pre-game tailgater consumptions are causing you to see unusual band forma­tions, such as choo choo trains and chicken legs, don't be alarmed. The MOB has been known to make such off­beat arrangements. 
Furthermore, as they claim to be specialists in "college party music," their repertoire varies from the sounds of the Blues Brothers to those of Count Basie. The MOB also plays anything from the "Flintstones" theme to Hand­el's "Water Music," as long as it contributes, of course, to the punchline of the show. 
Well, what can the Notre Dame fans expect to see and hear during halftime Satur­day? A Twisted Sister perfor­mance, a Happy Days giggle session or ... ? (Don't say "another Stanford perfor­mance" since, as stated by Carbonara, "We hate being compared to Stanford.") Sorry to inform you, but Dye was reluctant to share a com­plete MOB program schedule. "We gather interest when we keep it secret, but I will tell you that it is a real college oriented show." 


SCOTT KAHNEY accent writer 

C 
enter Street Blues Cafe, located in Mis­
hawaka's trendy 100 
Center, provides the 
Michiana area with just what it needs--a nightclub with style, taste, and great music. Mostly unknown to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's scene, or at least rarely visited by students, Center Street intertwines passionate music with an extremely pleasing atmosphere. 
As the name suggests, Cen­ter Street focuses on the blues. Live music is the norm at this club which is open Tuesday-Saturday. Ken Par­fitt, one of Center Street's owners, takes much pride in the high quality musicians his club continues to attract. They have played host to the Oreo Cookie Blues of Lonnie Mack and blues greats Luther Allison and Lonnie Brooks. Several weeks ago, their stage welcomed the rollicking piano and wicked smile of PineTop Perkins. 
Probably the major rea­son Center Street succeeds in continually bringing in major acts is the fact that it is a high-class establishment lo­cated less than two hours from the home of the blues-­
ALIEN NATIO 
REVIE 


-.~ 


at 


Time 12:10 p.m. EST 
TV& Radio 
WGN-TV 
(Dan Roan, Paul Hornung, John Mengelt) 
WNDU-TV 
Mutual Radio Network 
(Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) 
WVFI-AM 640 

Tickets Game is sold out (capacity 59,075) 
Notre Dame 1st

AP Rankings 
Rice unranked 
Notre Dame leads, 3-Q-0

Series 
First game in 1915 

Last Game October 12, 197 4 Notre Dame 10, Rice 3 
Sophomore sensations running over opposition 
Brooks paces Irish rushers in spite of season-long injury 


By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
A little stress is good for you. A lot of stress can cause you to break. 
While the stress Notre Dame running back Tony Brooks is feeling isn't exactly the type of stress that's good for him, it hasn't appeared to hurt his per­formance on the field. But too much stress could cause a se­vere break. 
Brooks' problem with stress this season isn't psychological. Since the summer, he has been suffering the pain of a stress fracture in his left foot. 
"It's doing better," Brooks says. "It's still hurting. We talked about having me sit out this year and give it a rest, but it was a decision they left up to me, and it felt OK. I could play, so I'm playing as long as it holds up." 
Brooks wears a pad on the 

Watters elusive in more than one way 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Since his arrival at Notre Dame, Ricky Watters has im­pressed Irish fans and coaches alike with his elusiveness. 
But while Watters may be elusive to tacklers when he is carrying the ball, he also has been elusive to onlookers at Irish practices this past week. The sophomore from Harris­burg, Pa., has been switching between flanker and tailback during this week's sessions. 
Neither position is anything new for Watters. He was Notre Dame's second leading rusher as a tailback last season, gaining 373 yards for three touchdowns on 69 carries. 
After moving to flanker at the end of spring practice, Wat­ters has become the top Irish receiver thus far in the season with 11 receptions for 215 yards and two touchdowns. 
"All that you need to be a great receiver, Ricky has," said Irish receivers coach Pete Cordelli. "It's a learning process every time you choose positions, but he's picked up very well on what we're trying to do." 
But according to Watters, he now has moved back to tail­back. 
"Right now, I'm back at tail­back," said Watters. "I think that's my natural position. Right now, I don't know how much playing time I'll get. I'll stand by Coach Holtz, and when he tells me to come in, I'll just go do my thing." 
Cordelli and offensive back­field coach Jim Strong, however, said they did not know if Watters was going to see more action at tailback or flanker for the rest of the season. 
"I don't really know for sure," said Strong. "Coach Holtz will make that decision. We're giving him reps at tail­back and at flanker. Coach Holtz will put him wherever he can help the team." 
Watters has gained 45 yards on 23 rushes out of the wishbone formation and on reverses.·His best game as a receiver was two weeks ago against Air Force, when he caught four passes for 108 yards and two touchdowns. 
He has added more high­lights on special teams, averaging 17.3 yards per punt return despite occasional prob­lems hanging on to the ball. Watters began his punt return­ing career for the Irish in spectacular fashion, going 81 yards with his first runback for Notre Dame's only touchdown against Michigan. He also scored on a 66-yard return against Purdue. 
His success on punt returns goes back to his days at Bishop McDevitt High in Harrisburg. During the 1986 season, one op­ponent tried passing every time it reached a fourth-down situation rather than giving Watters a, chance to return a punt. 
Watters is not surprised by his continued success in this area since moving up to the col­legiate ranks. But he says he was confident, not because of his own talents, but because of 
see WATIERS, page 3 
sole of his foot to distribute the pressure, and his black-painted high top shoes make him look deceivingly slow. The stress fracture will not heal on its own, and casting has not been successful for this type of in­jury in the past, so Brooks will be scheduled for surgery after the season. 
Despite the fracture, Brooks is the team leader in all­purpose running and rushing, compiling 561 yards on the ground and 123 yards in pass receptions. He averages 6.1 yards per play and 71 yards per game, despite sharing time in the Notre Dame backfield with Mark Green, Braxston Banks and Anthony Johnson. 
"I think the best thing about my running is my power," Brooks says. "I've been trying to do a lot of work on my speed, and my moves and quickness, 
see BROOKS, page 3 



T'he Game 

By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Editor 
When Southern Methodist University was given college football's "death penalty" in 1986 for various NCAA vi­olations, Notre Dame canceled its scheduled game at SMU for 1988. 
As a result, the top-ranked Irish no longer play a Southwest Conference team with a traditionally strong foot­ball team and a questionable record off the field Saturday afternoon. Instead, they play the opposite. 
Rtce University brings its 0-7 football team and a strong academic history into Notre Dame Stadium for a 12:10 
p.m. kickoff against the 8~0 Irish, who look to rebound from last week's slug­gish showing in their 22-7 victory over the Naval Academy. Mter their worst outing of the year, the Irish moved from No. 2 to No. 1 in the polls because top­ranked UCLA fell 34-30 to Washington State. 
But rankings never have concerned Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, and the Rice Owls do--despite their record. 
"I am impressed," Holtz said of the Owls, who lost by only a 21-14 score on the road against undefeated Arkansas last week and suffered a 24-10 defeat at the hands of Texas A&M the week before. "At the beginning of the year, I thought, 'Gee, they must be down this year.' 
"But they went down to Texas A&M and lost a tough game. Then they went to Arkansas at Little Rock--and that's a dif(icult place to play--and could have won the ballgame. It was tied in the fourth quarter. Our players know A&M (the Aggies beat Notre Dame 35-10 in the 1988 Cotton Bow}), so I don't think we're going to have any trouble getting our players' attentions focused on Rice. You watch them on film, and they're impressive.'' 
The first five dwllosses came against Indiana (41-14), Southwest Louisiana (41-16), Texas (20-13), Texas Christian (21-10) and Texas Tech (38-36). So Sat­urday afternoon, the top-ranked team in the nation will be facing a team with absolutely everything to gain. 
And at least one Owl feels destiny is 
earlier thla season. Brown and the top-
on his team's side. 
"How often does the last place team in the Southwest Conference get to play the No. 1 team in the nation?" Rice senior cornerback William McClay said. "It's an opportunity to make up for four years of bad luck and missed chances. 
"I don't think they'll take us lightly because they've seen the films and are well-coached. But I don't think they'll be prepared for what we'll bring up there." 
Notre Dame brings a 10-game home winning streak into the contest, and has not boasted an 11-game home streak since 1942-50, when the Irish won 28 con­secutive games at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Notre Dame offense vs. Rice defense 

Notre Dame could not find its rhythm 


The Observer I File Photo Alee receiver Melvin Turner atretchea for a pan agalnat TCU last season. 
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
against Navy last week and will be looking to rebound against a Rice team that allows its opposition an average of 
29.4 points and 400 yards per game. 
The Irish are averaging 384 yards a game in total offense, 260 coming via the ground. Holtz limited the use of the option against Navy because his backs were having trouble holding onto the ball, but junior quarterback Tony Rice averages 5.5 yards a rush (492 yards on 90 carries) and should be bootleg­ging and pitching once again Saturday. 
Sophomore Tony Brooks continues to lead the Irish in rushing with 561 yards on 92 carries (6.1 yards per rush) al­though he has played the entire season on a fractured foot. 
Senior tri-captain Mark Green, who starts and shares time with Brooks at tailback, is third in rushing with 476 yards on 99 carries (4.8 average). Also emerging in the Notre Dame backfield is freshman Rodney Culver, who averages 7.0 yards a carry (140 yards, 20 carries) and has scored two touch­downs, including a powerful 22-yard burst against the Midshipmen. 
Junior fullback Braxston Banks missed the Navy game to give his knee time to heal. Banks injured the knee at Michigan State in the second game of the season and is listed as probable for the Rice game behind classmate and starter Anthony Johnson. 
Notre Dame started the Navy game by throwing on 14 of the first 16 plays from scrimmage, but Irish receivers were dropping many of them and Rice finished the day 9-of-19 for 95 yards with one touchdown pass to freshman tight end Derek Brown. Rice is 52-of-103 (50.5 percent) for 814 yards on the season, with seven touchdowns and five inter­ceptions. 
Holtz put much of the blame for last week's poor showing on his young of­fensive line. But the probable return of junior guard Tim Grunhard, who was held out of the Navy game because of an injured ankle he had been playing on, should help the Notre Dame front. 
Sophomore inside linebacker O.J. "Juice" Brigance leads the Rice defense with 86 tackles, including four for losses. Safety Donald Hollas is next on the team with 56 tackles, although Rice coach and athletic director Jerry Berndt would rather not have a defen­sive back high on the list of tacklers. Hollas also plays quarterback behind starter Quentis Roper and is an aca­demic All-America candidate . 
Hollas is helped by McClay in a solid secondary, which gives up 153 yards a game in the air. 
The defensive weakness of the Owls is the line, which was hampered by in­juries last year and lost its three most experienced players to graduation. David Alston is the leading defensive tackle, but the senior is seventh on the team in tackles with 31. Look for the Irish offensive line to come off a slow week and dominate the line of scrim­mage. 
The Owls could have a tough time 
see IRISH, page 4 



•
' 
I 
Quentla Roper (QB) 
The versatile senior has thrown for 200 yards in three of the five games he has started this year. He completes 55 per­cent of his throws and also ranks fourth on the team in rushing. 

The sophomore started the first two games of the year at quarterback before switching to the defense. He led the Owls in tackles with 14 last week and is now second on the team with 56. 
Lorenzo Cyphera (FB) Mike Boudouaqale (SE) O.J. Brigance (ILB) 
Cyphers is Rice's leading rus­The senior is the top Owl The "Juice" leads Rice with her with 329 yards on 102 receiver, hauling in 24 passes 86 tackles and has become the carries for two touchdowns. The for 405 yards on the year, in­team's defensive general. The senior is also the second­cluding at least one in each of sophomore runs a 4.4-second, leading receiver, and has the last 11 games. He caught 40-yard dash and hits hard. He caught at least one pass in his nine passes against Baylor last had 18 stops against TCU. last 26 games. year. 
tters  
of the blockers on spe­ 
teams.  
"I expected it because of the  
way the guys block," said Wat­ 
ters. "In practices, we were  
setting up returns, and guys  
were making blocks so well. I  
was just running behind them.  
I knew they'd build a wall; it  
was just a matter of going out­ 
side that wall."  
"One of the greatest  
strengths Ricky has is that he  
has both great elusiveness, and  
he also has exceptional speed,''  
said Strong. "He's versatile  
with those two dimensions.  
He's a big-play threat  
whenever he has the ball in his  
hands. People have seen that  
since his first game here."  
Watters scored on an 18-yard  
run against Michigan in his  
fir-st game with Notre Dame.  
Michigan was one of Watters'  
final choices during the recruit­ 
ing process, along with  
Florida, Tennessee and UCLA.  
Watters liked what he saw at  
Notre Dame because of the  
University's similarities to his  
high school.  
"The place I went to in high  
school was like a mini-Notre  
Dame," said Watters. "It was a Catholic school, and I was used to the family atmosphere."  Notre Dame sophomore Ricky Watters (12) fights off Pat McNelis of Air Force. Watters once again will be breaking tackles as a  The Observer I Rob Regovich tailback after spending the first eight games of the season solely at flanker.  

-
page 3

Irish Extra
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 

explaining his reasons for but he does have a big finish in 

Brooks 
chosing Notre Dame. "A lot of mind. continued from pagP. 1 them went through college and "My freshman year, I 
didn't make it to the pros, and wanted to play," Brooks says. to get around the guys. I'm big they really didn't have anyth­"I did that. This year, I want and I do have some speed, that ing at all to fall back on. I didn't to gain 1,000 rushing yards, and just gives me a lot of velocity, want to be one of the I could do that. Next year, I'd and that's what gets you to stereotypes as far as my high really like to be named an All­break a lot of tackles." school goes. American. And senior year, I 
''There are a lot of good ath­want to win the Reisman 

Brooks' velocity has been letes, but not everyone can Trophy. I know that's a big good enough for three touch­make it to the pros." goal, but you never know what downs this season, two on Coming in to the Notre Dame could happen." receptions and one rushing. program from high school, 
Brooks came to Notre Dame Brooks took some time to make After Notre Dame, Brooks from Booker T. Washington the adjustment to college foot­would like to do his running in High School in Tulsa, Okla., ball. the pros, but if not, he wants to also the alma mater of "Adjusting was a big prob­be running his own business. Wayman Tisdale, who played lem for me," Brooks says. "I "I hope to play ball, but that basketball at Oklahoma before had some things to learn. This might not work out. I want to turning pro with the Indiana year, I'm playing a lot more, start my own business, to be Pacers. and I feel like I'm a part of the able to. do my own job on my 
team. Last year I had some own time." But Brooks and Tisdale were doubts; it was a maturity thing. Right now, Brooks is putting not the only talented athletes This year is different, and bet­his entrepreneurial aspirations 
The Observer I Scott McCann at Booker T. Washington. ter." on hold to work on his 1,000 Tony Brooks protects the football as he looks for a hole In the "We had a lot of good athletes Brooks has set goals that he yards...not to mention a few defense. The sophomore averages 6.1 yards per carry. at my school," Brooks says in says "don't start out too big," more Irish victories. 

TAILBACK 24 Mark Green 40 Tony Brooks 
Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 22 Anthony Johnson 39 Braxston Banks 
FLANKER 13 Pat Eilers 
QUARTERBACK SPLITEND 21 Aaron Robb ~ 9 Tony Rice 25 Raghib Ismail TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 17 Kent Graham 
80 Steve Alaniz 
p ::~~·p p~p'"~ p pfi5~ 
CENTER 
GUARD 55 Mike Heldt GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 75 Tim Grunhard 64 Mike Brennan 56 Ted Healy 
NOSE GUARD
Rice Defense 55 Paul Brotze 
TACKLE 83 Ted Humphreys TACKLE 98 Jacque Torres 94 David Alston 92 John Isaac 72 John Zurita 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
b b tp
99 Jeff Hood · 96 Wade Lee 
97 Joel Dawson A A40 Bill Stone 
INSIDE LINEBACKER A A INSIDE LINEBACKER
58 Donald Bowers 57 O.J. Brigance 59 Rich:ggan ~46 Brad McKay ~ 
CORNERBACK C!) ~ 1 William McClay CORNERBACK 
23 Nigel Codrington FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 7 David Griffin 10 Sammy Hartman 9 Donald Hollas 27 Greg King39 Brent Knapton 22 Terry Thornton 

Observer Graphic I Annette 
TAILBACK 32 Richard Williams 2 Eric Henley 

....... 
Rice Offense 
FULLBACK 45 Lorenzo Cyphers 44 Eddie EnriquezFLANKER 

18 Merritt Robinson 
SPLITEND
QUARTERBACK

85TimWinn 
(A} 3 Ouentis Roper 80 Mike Boudousquie TACKLE ~ 11 Bobby Schrader 
19 Courtney Cravin 64 David Maberry TACKLE
p"fScfS P P p~=:'l:= 

TIGHT END CENTER 86 David Mangold GUARD 56 Courtney Hall GUARD
84 Melvin Turner 75 Allen Koch 53 Richard Segina 53 Richard Segina 76 Scott Reeves 67 Trey Teichelman 
NOSE TACKLE 5o Chris Zorich Irish Defense 
TACKLE 92 Bryan Flannery TACKLE 

...
90 Jeff Aim 69 George Williams 

fieJ="C... s·"& ~ ~"~"""' :;~~~:~' 
CORNERBACK ~ ~ ~ CORNERBACK 
1 Todd Lyght INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 29 Stan Smagala 33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike S1onebreaker 32 D'Juan Francisco'f/!4 36 Donn Grimm 47 Ned Bolcar ~ 
FREE SAFETY 'M.(} STRONG SAFETY 
~~ b~~~:s~~thau ~ ~ ~~ g;~g~a~1~eeter 


Irish 
continued from page 2 
keeping Green, Brooks, Rice Johnson out of the secondary. 
Rice offense va. Notre Dame defense 
Irish Extra 
said. "They have changed completely. Eric Henley, who has picked up 280 Their alignment is similar to Stan­yards on 47 tries, an average of six ford's. They'll run tllle run-and-shoot yards per rush, as a back-up to junior alignment and yet they also run the Richard Williams (43 carries, 234 
and wishbone. They have the passing yards, 5.4 average). game--a game that gave us trouble with Senior and three-time letter winner Stanford--and the option that we could Mike Boudousquie is Roper's favorite have a lot of trouble with." target. The split end leads the team in And Roper is now the man in charge receptions (24), reception yardage of the Rice offense, and he is generally (405), yards per catch (16.9) and touch­considered one of the most versatile downs (3). 
Middies did not get a first down 
first quarter and finished the two first downs, 46 total yardsi6-o deficit. Inside linebackers Stonebreaker and Wes Pritchett con­tinue to lead Notre Dame with 86 and 83 tackles, respectively. 
An inexperienced defensive line has performed above all expectations this season. George "Boo" Williams leads 
Hollas started the first two games of quarterbacks in Rice history. He has Senior center Courtney Hall leads an the team with three sacks. the season as the starting quarterback completed 84 of the 153 passes he has offensive line that returns four of the Safeties George Streeter and PatTer­for Rice, and the Owls lost by Z7 points thrown (54.9 average) for 990 yards, five starters from the 1987 unit that led rell have two interceptions apiece for to Indiana and 25 to Southwest five touchdowns and five interceptions. the team to its second-highest yardage the Irish. Todd Lyght continues to Louisiana. Since Roper took over five Senior fullback Lorenzo Cyphers total in school history. anchor one corner position, while Stan games ago, Rice has been much more leads the Owls in rushing with 329 yards Notre Dame's defense dominated the Smagala and D' Juan Francisco are bat­competitive. on 102 carries (3.2 average), followed first half against Navy and has been a tling for time at the other cornerback 
"It's like two different teams," Holtz by highly-touted freshman tailback strong suit all year for the Irish. The slot. 
IRISH STATS OWL STATS SCHEDULES 
TEAM STAnSTICS ND OPP Johnson 54 213 3.9 3 22 TEAM STAnSTICS RICE OPP PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TD Culver 20 140 7.0 2 36 TOTAL OFFENSE 2551 2806 Roper 153 84.549 5 990 5
TOTAL OFFENSE 
3074 2319 Belles 11 53 4.8 0 18 YARDS Hollas 59 30 .508 2 373 1 NOTRE DAME (8-0)
--
YARDS Banks 18 48 2.7 1 6 Total Plays 507 477 Schrader 5 2 .400 0 13 0 d. MICHIGAN, 19-17Total Plays 561 514 
Watters 23 45 2.0 0 14 Yards per Play 5.0.0 3.9 RICE 217 116 .535 7 1376 6
Yards per Play 5.42 5.51 d. Michigan State, 20-3 
Setzer 8 23 2.9 0 12 Yards per Game 364.4 400.9 OPP 133 70 .526 1 1072 5
Yards per Game 384.2 289.9 d. PURDUE, 52-7
Eilers 5 20 4.0 1 7 PENALTIES-YARDS 50-433 32-459 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG
PENAL TIES-YARDS 43-416 50-397 
K.Graham 4 12 3.0 0 5 FUMBLES-LOST 18-5 20-8 Boudousqule 24 405 16.9 3 53 d. STANFORD, 42-14FUMBLES-LOST 13-9 15-11 
P.Graham 4 10 2.5 0 9 150 136 Cyphers 18 131 7.3 0 22
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 169 133 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS d. Pittsburgh, 30-20 
Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 By Rushing 72 87 Williams 16 156 9.8 1 42
By Rushing 110 54 d. MIAMI, 31-30
Mihalko 3 6 2.0 1 3 By Passing 64 43 Robinson 13 178 13.7 1 22
By Passing 45 69 Jarosz 2 -2 -1.0 0 0 By Penalty 14 6 Henley 13 140 10.8 1 30 d. AIR FORCE, 41-13By Penalty 14 10 
Ebert 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 110-46 95-46 Cravin 10 114 11.4 0 21 
d. Navy, 22-7 Team 1 -21 -21.0 0 -21 Percentage 4t.8 48.4 Turner 9 114 12.7 0 27THIRD DOWNS-CQMt_:-108754 109-34 
Percentage .50.0 31.2 Nov. 5---RICE
NOTRE DAME 4372081 4.8 20 52 POSSESSION TIME 225:09 194:51 Nixon 8 97 12.1 0 27
POSSESSION TIME 256:32 223:28 OPPONENTS 298 968 3.2 5 31 Minutes per Game 32:51 27:09 Roper 2 24 12.0 0 15 Nov. 19---PENN STATE
Minutes per Game 32:04 27:56 SCORING G TD PA R·PA s FG TP Mangold 2 11 5.5 0 6 Nov. 26---at Southern Cal
SCORING G TO PA R·PA s FG TP PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Richard 7 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Allen 1 6 6.0 0 6Ho 8 0 26-29 0-0 0 9-12 53 Rice 103 52 .505 5 814 7 
William RICE 116 1376 11.9 6 53
Rice 8 7 0-0 1-1 o o-o 44 Belles 4 2 .500 0 84 2 Parsons 7 0 11-15 0-0 0 4-11 23 OPPONENTS 70 1072 15.3 5 0 Green 8 4 0-0 0-0 o o-o 24 K.Graham 15 10 .667 2 79 0 Henley 5 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 DEFENSE TM TL-YDS PBU FR BKWatters 8 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 P.Graham 2 1 .500 0 16 0 Boudousqui 7 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Brigance 86 4-16 3 0 0 RICE (0-7)Brooks 8 3 0-0 0-1 0 0-0 18 ND 124 65 .524 7 993 9 Cyphers 7 2 0-0 0-1 0 0-0 12 Hollas 56 2-3 0 2 0 I. INDIANA, 41-14Johnson 8 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 OPP 216 117 .542 121351 8 Hollas 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Colcean 49 1-1 0 0 0
D.Brown 8 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 I. SW Louisiana, 41-16 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TD LG 
Roper 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Humphreys 46 1-2 0 0 0Culver 8 2 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 12 Robinson 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Bowers 44 0-0 1 .1 0 I. TEXAS, 20-13Watters 11 215 19.6 2 50Banks 8 2 0-0 0-0 o o-o 12 Hood 33 4-11 0 0 0
Green 10 102 10.2 0 38 I. Texas Christian, 21-10Eilers 8 1 0-0 0-0 oo-o 6 RICE 7 1411-15 0-1 (\ 4-11 107 Alston 31 2-5 0 1 1Ismail 9 210 22.2 1 57
Mihalko 8 1 o-o o-o 0 0-0 6 I. TEXAS TECH, 38-36
OPP 7 27 26-27 0-0 0 6-7 206 McClay 27 o-o-5 0 0Ismail 8 1 o-o o-o Brown 9 101 11.2 3 26
oo-o 6 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TD LG Latin 26 1-1 6 1 0 I. Texas A&M, 24-10 8 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
Terrell Brooks 6 123 20.5 2 42 Cyphers 102 329 3.2 2 15 Lee 26 2-4 1 0 0 I. Arkansas, 21-14Eilers 5 55 11.0 0 13Stonebrkr 8 1 0-0 0-0 o o-o 6 Henley 47 280 6.0 2 36 Torres 24 2-3 1 2 0
Hackett 8 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-2 4 Alaniz 4 74 18.5 0 26 Nov. 5---at Notre Dame
Williams 43 234 5.4 3 41 Isaac 18 0-0 0 0 0Johnson 4 54 13.5 0 19
Team 8 0 0-1 0-0 oo-o 0 Roper 82 228 2.8 1 41 Hartman 17 0-0 1 0 0 Nov. 12---BAYLOR 
NO 8 33 27-31 1-2 010-14257 Banks 3 45 15.0 1 30 Hollas 13 79 6.1 1 51 Hollas 16 0-0 0 0 0 Nov. 19---NORTH TEXASOPP 8 13 12-13 0-1 0 7-9 111 Mihalko 2 8 4.0 0 6 Enriquez 2 14 7.0 0 8 McKay 13 0-0 0 0 0
RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG A. Smith 1 4 4.0 0 4 Nov. 26---at Houston
Robinson 1 11 11.0 0 11 Zurita 11 0-0 0 0 0
Brooks 92 561 6.1 1 52 K.Graham 1 2 2.0 0 2 RICE 2901175 4.1 9 51 RICE 562 20-49 18 7Rice 90 492 5.5 7 38 NOTRE DAME 65 993 15.3 9 57 OPPONENTS 3441812 3.0 19 0 OPPONENTS 562 25-77 30 7Green 99 476 4.8 4 26 OPPONENTS 1171351 11.5 8 42 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  RICE OFFENSE  RICE DEFENSE  
POS  NO  PLAYER  HT  WT  CL  RJ:  30  Frank Starns  6-4  237  Sr.  POS  NO  PLAYER  HT  WT  CL  OLB  99  Jeff Hood  6-4  230  Sr.  
SE  25  Raghlb Ismail  5-10  175  Fr.  37  Scott Kowalkowski  6-2  226  So.  SE  80  Mike Boudousqule  6-2  190  Sr.  97  Joel Dawson  6-4  230  Fr.  
80  Steve Alaniz  6-2  196  Sr.  LT  69  George Williams  6-3  282  So.  19  Courtney Cravin  6-3  190  So.  OT  98  Jacque Torres  6-2  285  Fr.  
QT  66  Andy Heck  6-7  277  Sr.  74  Mirko Jurkovic  6-5  270  Fr.  LT  74  Mike Gonzales  6-3  280  Sr.  92  John Isaac  6-5  225  Jr.  
QG  61 52  Tom Gorman Tim Ryan  6-6 6-4  255 245  Sr. So.  NT  50 92  Chris Zorich Bryan Flannery  6-1 6-3  260 249  So. Jr.  LG  68 53  Kayne Coulter Richard Seglna  6-4 6-3  270 270  Jr. So.  ILB  58 59  Donald Bowers Richard Duggan  6-2 6-1  220 230  So. Fr.  
c TG  64 55 76 75 56  Mike Brennan Mike Heldt Gene McGuire Tim Grunhard Ted Healy  6-5 6-4 6-5 6-3 6-4  246 258 265 279 258  Sr. So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  RT DE MLB  90 93 7 97 34  Jeff Aim Bob Dahl Andre Jones Arnold Ale Wes Pritchett  6-7 6-5 6-4 6-4 6-6  246 248 215 200 251  Jr: So. So. Fr. Sr.  c RG  67 56 53 75 76  Trey Teichelman Courtney Hall Richard Segina Allan Koch Scott Reeves  6-3 6-2 6-3 6-3 6-3  275 260 260 290 270  Fr. Sr. So. Jr. Jr.  NG ILB DT  55 83 57 46 94  Paul Brotze Ted Humphreys O.J. Brigance Brad McKay David Alston  6-3 6-2 s-o 6-0 6-2  230 250 210 210 230  Fr. Sr. So. Sr. Sr.  
TT  71 72  Dean Brown Joe Allen  6-3 6-4  283 268  Jr. So.  36  Donn Grimm·  6-2  224  So.  RT  64 68  David Maberry Kayne Coulter  6-4 6-4  265 270  Sr. Jr.  OLB  72 96  John Zanita Wade Lee  6-2 6-1  250 205  Jr. Sr.  
TE  66  Derek Brown  6-7  235  Fr.  ELB  42  Mike Stonebreaker  6-1  226  Jr.  TE  86  David Mangold  6-2  225  Sr.  40  Bill Stone  6-2  210  So.  
88  Frank Jacobs  6-5  234  So.  47  Ned Bolcar  6-2  232  Sr.  84  Melvin Turner  6-1  225  Jr.  CB  1  William McClay  s-o  195  Sr.  
QB FB  9 17 22 39  Tony Rice Kent Graham Anthony Johnson Braxston Banks  6-1 6-5 6-Q 6-3  198 228 225 211  Jr. So. Jr. Jr.  FCB SCB  1 33 29 32  Todd Lyght David Jandric Stan Smagala D'Juan Francisco  6-1 6-2 5-11 5-11  181 192 186 187  So. Jr. Jr. Sr.  QB FB  3 11 45 44  Quentls Roper Bobby Schrader Lorenzo Cyphers Eddie Enriquez  5-9 6-1 5-10 6-1  175 190 210 200  Sr. Fr. Sr. So.  FS 55  23 10 39 9  Nigel Codrington Sammy Hartman Brent Knapton Donald Hollas  6-2 6-1 6-3 6-3  190 195 190 220  So. So. Sr. So.  
TB FL  24 40 13  Mark Green Tony Brooks Pat Ellers  6-Q 6-2 5-11  184 218 197  Sr. So. Sr.  55 FS  27 26 15  George Streeter Greg Davis Pat Terrell  6-2 6-1 s-o  212 198 195  Sr. So. Jr.  TB FL  32 2 18  Richard Williams Eric Henley Merritt Robinson  5-11 5-8 6-2  190 160 180  Jr. Fr. So.  CB  22 7 27  Terry Thornton David Griffin Greg King  6-Q 5-10 5-10  185 185 170  Fr. Fr. So.  
PK  21 18  Aaron Robb Billy Hackett  6-1 6-1  192 184  Sr. So.  p  31 16  Corny Southall Jim Sexton  6-2 6-Q  194 188  Sr. So.  PK  85 12  Tim Winn Clint Parsons  6-3 5-10  200 160  Fr. So.  p  12 9  Clint Parsons Donald Hollas  5-10 6-3  160 220  So. So.  
2  Reggie Ho  5-5  135  Sr.  14  Sean Connor  6-7  214  Sr.  10  Sammy Hartman  6-1  195  So.  

...... 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records 
A
I A
are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. 



Pete Sklko Jane Shea Marty Strasen Steve Megargee Theresa Kelly
In other words, it isn't enough to 
Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. 
pick the winner of a given game. 
49-46-2 45-50-2 44-51-2 40-55-2 36-59-2 The person must pick the winner .516 .474 .463 
.421 .379 .463 .453 and give the underdog points. (last week: 6-7-1) (last week: 5-8-1) (last week: 4-9-1) (last week: 5-8-1) (last week: 6-7-1) (last week: 5-8-1) (last week: 5-8-1) Home team is in CAPS. 
PITTSBURGH over Rutgers by 16 Scarlet Knights Panthers Scarlet Knight Scarlet Knights Panthers Panthers Scarlet Knights Indiana over ILLINOIS by 7 lllini Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers lllini Hoosiers Hoosiers 
MICHIGAN over Minnesota by 30 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Gophers Gophers Wolverines 
.. 
PENN STATE over Maryland by 8 Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Terrapins Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Terrapins Georgia over FLORIDA by 3.5 Gators Gators Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Gators Gators Michigan State over PURDUE by 14 Spartans Spartans Boilermakers Boilermakers Spartans Spartans Spartans 
W. VIrginia over CINCINNATI by 39 Mountaineers Bearcats Bearcats Bearcats Bearcats Bearcats Mountaineers 
Air Force over ARMY by 1 Cadets Cadets Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons 
Florida State over S.CAROLINA by 4 Seminoles Gamecocks Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Gamecocks 
ALABAMA over Lsu by 2 Tigers Crimson Tide Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Crimson Tide 
Oklahoma over OKLAHOMA STATE by 3.5 Sooners Cowboys Sooners Cowboys Sooners Sooners Sooners 
STANFORD over Wash. State by 1.5 Cougars Cardinal Cougars Cardinal Cougars Cougars Cougars Bears Trojans Trojans
USC over California by 22 Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans 
NOTRE DAME over Rice by 32 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 

CE"TER
STREET 
BLOES 
CAFE 
' Dressed in torn jeans or your best mini-skirt, you'll feel at home at Center Street. ' 


Stars such as Duke Tumatoe successfully entertain crowds at Center Street. 
. Dressed in torn jeans or best mini-skirt, you'll at home at Center Street. Though blues are their , Center Street also high­other musical styles. nights usually fea­Reggae bands, and these have been particularly ..,v1eru,,<1, with the ND crowd. floor gets quite "''"'"u","'n as people melodi­sway to the Rasta beats such as Yabba Grif­, Ragamuffin, and The 
Mighty Groovers. 
There is no cover charge on Tuesdays when Center Street has acoustic blues night. You never know who'll join the house band since these shows have a somewhat open-mike style. Someone may hop out of the crowd to pound the ivory or blow the harp for a song or two before slipping back into anonymity in a dark corner of the club. 
Last Tuesday, the four piece impromptu band had so much fun together that there came a point in the evening when their show shifted focus. No longer were they playing for the crowd; they were playing for themselves. The small, but appreciative audi­ence could feel the band's electricity deep within their soul and knew that they were experiencing blues the way it was meant to be. 
Music and atmosphere are 
not all that can be found lurking deep within the 100 Center. Center Street also of­fers a full menu, with entrees ranging from hamburgers to prime rib. Though the service was a bit slow last Saturday, the food provides a nice ac­companiment to an evening of blues. The slow service may have been due to the huge crowd that packed the club to the rafters to hear local fa­vorite Duke Tumatoe. I can't imagine a date who wouldn't be thrilled with a night of din­ner and dancing at Center Street. 
Another nice feature about this club is that you don't have to be 21 to enjoy it. Anyone can enter, but you must show ID if you want to drink. Cover is $4 (less than a movie) unless someone fa­mous is playing, when it 
see BLUES, page 14 


DOUG RADKE accent writer 
L 
os Angeles has been the pick for movie settings having to do with aliens and strange creatures. Remember the standouts: "E.T.," "Blade Runner" and "The Terminator?" L.A. is also the setting for the new movie "Alien Nation," but this one will be quickly forgotten. 
This film, under -the direc­tion of Graham Baker, tries to develop a new plot by giving a rough and tough L.A. detective, Jam·es Caan, an alien partner, Mandy Patinkin. We've always known California to be the capital of weirdness. 
A spaceship becomes stranded on earth, and the aliens inside eventurUy are tagged the Newcomers. Several years later, after quarantine, the quarter of a million aliens are trying to incorporate themselves into our society. 
The plot starts with an ap­parent holdup by several Newcomers. Caan's partner is killed, and two of the rob­bers escape. One is killed by Caan and is believed to be connected to two other assassination-type murders. 
Caan requests that he be given a Newcomer, Sam Francisco, for his new partner. Their search leads them to a connection between the murders and the holdup-­an alien narcotic ring. 
The major problem with Alien Nation is that the direc­tor plays it between a science fiction tale and a police story. As a police movie, the plot is far too simplistic. The audi­
ence is given every detail and must wait for the obvious climax. As a science fiction plot, the movie has potential but opts to be corny. The po­tential of an unknown alien culture is left mostly un­touched. Even the attempt to address the issue of prejudice is blunt and insulting. 
Though "Alien Nation" is playing at the Forum, I do not suggest that anyone see this film, not even ardent sci­fi buff::;. James Caan shows nothing of his enormous tal­ent; the plot lacks any depth. Your money would be better spent at a Rax dinner bar. This movie gets one out of five stars, at most. 

ATOUCH OF ITALIA 
restaurants. It consists of stuffed meatrolls with im­SHEILA CULM 

accent writer 

0 
ported cheeses, Italian herbs ne of South Bend's Italian 
and spices and is served with dining treasures may a side of spaghetti. very well be Parisi's. An aut­For those who still prefer hentic Italian restaurant, the typical Italian cuisine, 
"<
Parisi's boasts a superb Parisi's also offers menu, at a fair price, that pizza ( $7.95-13.95) , Italian 
offers more than just spag­subs($7.95), lasagna($7.95), hetti and lasagna. Also, the and veal parmigiana($13.95) atmosphere is perfect for a among others. dinner for two or a party of The atmosphere at Parisi's 
12. is between casual and formal. 
The fare offered at Parisi's The openness of the dining is unique and definitely some­area and the vari<ms sports thing the connoisseur will en­piing, gnocchi is an excellent memorabilia give it a casual joy. One can open the meal choice for those who prefer a appearance, whil~ the with the traditional an­potato based pasta. The gnoc­dimmed lighting, tablecloths, tipasto($4.95), or the not so chi and other pastas are and flowers give it more of traditional arancini($2.95). served with a choice of an upscale one. Arancini is a dish of fried tomato, meat, or mushroom The prices are fair-­rice balls stuffed with salami sauce. averaging $7.50 for a 
and mozzarella and is a nice Another specialty is the generous entree served with a change from the ordinary. bucatini con broccoli alla salad and Italian bread. There is also a homemade calabrese which is a pasta Located on South Bend Ave­
minestrone soup made from cooked in a light broccoli nue, just south of the ACC, Parisi's own recipe. sauce and spices. It is a nice Parisi's provides an accessi­For the main entree change of taste from the ble alternative to the dip.ing 
Parisi's offers a wide range traditional tomato based hall and carry-outs are-avail­of Italian specialties in addi­sauces, even for those who able. Parisi's is open Tuesday tion to a nightly entree. One don't prefer -broccoli. through Saturday, accepts 
of the highlights is One of the nightly specials, reservations, and will serve gnocchi($4.95-7.50, depending bracioletti($8.95), is a dish private parties up to 100 people.
on the sauce). A type of dum-not commonly found in Italian 

page 14 The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
etc. 

Reflections for November, the month of death 
Moses was going to start imposed on us because our a pill that all the sick people cure for Death?" Could they Maybe you prefer the myth 
the Book of Genesis with first parents ate the forbidden would take to cure them, ·not have asked Him: "Is that Moses wrote about the the famous line, "Call me fruit, or do you think that thereby robbing Death of its there no cure for Life?" coming of Death. But in No-Ishmael," until God pointed there has to be a better ex-sting and the grave of its vic-Could not God have invented vember, the month of the out that Ishmael will not planation? tory? Will there ever be a Death as a merciful exit that dead, when you're feeling sad show up until later in the I have my own serious cure for Death, available at human beings can take when about the fresh graves in the story; and by that time, he opinions about Death and Sin, the local drug store without a they are surfeited with the burial place, perhaps God al­will not be Ishmael, but both of which I take serious-prescription, helping the redundancies of existance? lows you the private myths Jonah. ly. I believe in Death for the people we care about live Does God let us grow old so which temper the wind to the 
So, under God's prompting, obvious reasons, and I believe forever? that when Death finally shorn lamb. Trust Him Moses wrote, "In the begin-in Sin on the evidence that Woody Allen says: "I would comes, we will experience enough to believe that no ning," as the opening words I'm gulity of conduct that I'll like to be immortal, not so dying as a terminal way of 
much through the books I falling asleep? 
"For Christians, if

write, but by living forever." But if Death is a cure for How many people agree with Life, what balms in Gilead Christ's resurrec-Woody Allen in want_ing to be are there for people who have 
tion has a

immortal? Was it the Sybil at a dread of Death? I can't tell Father Robert Griffin Cumae who asked for immor-you what the cure for Death meaning, Love tality without asking also to is, unless it's Love. What 
must be stronger

.....--letters to a Lonely God remain always young? By the good is Love, unless it's time she was 1000 years old, stronger than Death? Could than Death." she had shrunk to the size of Love ever be stronger than to do. He invented the myth overreact, so that He would a parrot and had to be kept in Death? matter what the first words of Adam and Eve as the want to punish me with tooth a cage. For Christians, if Christ's of Genesis are, the last word original soap opera of a mar-decay, wrinkles and a non-Wouldn't it be a bore to resurrection has a meaning, in the never-ending story is riage full of strife that en-functioning liver. plod down the road of life as Love must be stronger than Love--as in the Love that dured until Death. Remember the line from a perpetual elder statesman, Death. With head bent low defeats Death, which you can 

According to Moses, Death "Twelfth Night:" "Dost thou or as a patient in a nursing and wearing a crown of recognize because it has nail didn't come into the world think, because thou are vir-home visited by students who thorns, the Savior pushed scars in its hands. until after Adam and Eve had tuous, there shall be no more want to write term papers on through that gloomy door. sinned, but as George cakes and ale?" Could a care-aging? Would it be equally For three days, He lingeredGershwin tells us in Porgy less, God-accusing Christian tiring to stay 20 forever? in the house of the dead to 
Blues 

and Bess, "It ain't necessar-imagine himself addressing What must it be like to be visit the saints. On the third continued from page 13
ily so." Christians and Jews these words to an alledgedly Peter Pan, the puer aeternus day, He left it to enter alike believe in sin; but what puritanical, cheerless deity? refusing to grow up, always Paradise, and the saints went might cost a couple of dollars if you're like Casey, Stein-Would it cause you a faith looking for a new Wendy to with Him. Then He visited the more. The show is usually beck's preacher in "The problem, if you thought that sew his new shadow back on? old pals He hung out with on free if you have dinner. Grapes of Wrath," who fi-the Almighty had made up When Death finally came to earth, as proof of the Love Whether or not you fancy nally figured out that there's His mind to zap you, because Eden, was it really so unwel-that is stronger than Death. yourself a fan of the blues, no such thing as sin, but only you're out for a little fun? come? Can you imagine He also told them of Heaven, you'll enjoy yourself at Cen­stuff that people do? Can you This fall, I've gotten too Adam and Eve growing older which is a great festival ter Street Blues Cafe. The swallow that yarn about the many phone calls telling me and older, until they became prepared for us by the God of owners have succeeded in snake, the apple and the pair of deaths that I don't want to bored with Paradise in the Love, where our lost saints creating a club that pulls you in the Garden? When you're hear about, and I begin to way you and I might become and our sin-partners, in, makes you feel wanted, looking a corpse in the face, wonder if science ever could weary of the sunrise and sun-redeemed by grace, will be and most of all, calls you are you really convinced that find a cure for Death. Could set in Tahiti? waiting to be in love with us back. Check out Center 

Bindings Reg. $450.00 
Boots 
NOW
Poles 
Mounting $239.95 
DOWNHILL SKI BOOTS 
We ask God: "Is there no forever. Street; you won't regret it. 
i 
11 

Just Arrived... Large Selection of NAME BRAND SKI CLOTHING 
Robern Down Reg. $99.95, 
SKI JACKETS 
NOW $59.95 
Reg. $149.95 
Ultimo 

SKI JACKETS NOW $99.95 
Reg. $29.95 

SKI BIBS NOW $24.95 ~ROSS COUNTRY SKI PACKAGE 
$49.95

1><-C Skis, Leather Boots, Bindings, Poles, Mounting. Selected Sizes 
1988 HART SKIS 


Muniari Reg. $139.95 NOW $89.95 Hart Sportive Reg. $279.95 NOW $139.95 Weinmann Reg. $119.95 NOW $79.95 Hart Exclusive Reg. $3oo.oo NOW $149.95 Kolfach CE-150 Reg. $200 NOW $100.00 Hart Snow Dancer Reg. $259.95 NOW $129.95 
ALL SPALDING SKIS AT APPROX. DEALER COST! USED SKIS! Rossignal Saranac Ski Gloves Quantum: 909,808,707, W'Salomon 
Gortex Reg. $40.00 NOW $29.95 
447 bindings when new,

NOW $22.95 
Moisture loc Reg~~S.~O 
over $450.00 NOW

3 DAYS Thlnsulate Reg. $29.95 NOW $12.95 
$199.00

Sale Hours: other used skis
Fri., Nov. 4110-9 Sat., Nov. 511 0-8 $69.95 and up!
AAA SPORTS 
Sun., Nov. 6110-5 
Jameson Inn 14404 N. 
th Bend 
--~ ~----------~---~-----~----..------------------­
The Observer page 15 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per-day. 

Classifieds 
I NEED PENN STATE TIX! PLEASE THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP ST. 5 REASONS TO DONA TiE RICE TIX: 1. CALL # 2n1 ASAPI ASK FOR BETSY JUDE It'll make you feel good. 2. To get
l--_N_O_TIC_E_s_.--JII__FO_R_S_A_LE____, PERSONALS 
aomethlng done thla wknd. 3. Whet'a 

NEED 10 USC TICKETS CALL 284-5010 LIES I another lou to Rice? 4. Rlce'8' blind TYPING AVAILABLE 
1978 AMC Concord LEAVE MESSAGE N.D. CANDY doean't have e 1.... 5. It juat ain't the 287-4082 
2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mich tires Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White 118me without Jimmy. new battery and brakes, excellent NEED TWO (2) PENN ST. GA'S--MY Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check BusMtller-MIND POLLUTION? for student. Good car. DAD WILL PAY YOUR TUITIONII MIKE to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 OONATiE YOUR RICE TIX TO esc 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 
Call Chris 284-4288 x1817 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­272-8827 
1338. Don't Buy the Bush Uel DONATiE YOUR RICE TIX TO esc NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX. $$CALL x2133. 
.........................................................:...... RICE WEEKEND KellyO' OONATiE YOUR RICE TIX TO CSCII
HOCKEY TONIGHT VS. MICHIGAN­
Matt "Schmear Gallagher for VP Rooms next campus 4 ST. pay
available to I NEED PENN GA's--will DEARBORN 7:30. You have Ill up our Uvea lor twenty­JAMISON INN (219) 2n-9682 mucho dinero $$$$$$111 Please call Bob onederful yeara-Thenksl Oh Mrs, tomorrow MARGARET EGAN at x2321 and we'll talk! Love, Ded & Mom will be the big 191 Go to the Eck, and tell 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL hi··~;;:··········································· ..·········· 
1966 VOLVO Great Town & Winter Car her YOU LOVE IT.HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
$800.232-3438 Before 1Oam Alter 7pm DESPERATELY need 2 RICE GA'sl Will SCAW WOMAN I Just remember Bush is pay $!! Please call collect alter 6 pm. N·eiio···Fiioii:si\v...cirv:Nav·..;;··..;;;\;: ANYONE want a USC plane ticket? call No. 11-Love The Quad and Teeny Too. Typing. C•ll P•t at 27HI116. l.oc8ted 
Plane Tix to CA for XMAS OHARE to 513-531·3192. Thanks. GREEN 1440 Cathy# 1674 2 mi. north of Notre D•me. 
Orange Cnty 12117 to VIS Craig at.289-MAWEEN BWAKE, 
8415 TOP$ FOR GOOD SO. CAL. SEATS. aues:r··;;o·Fi·:r;;e··c·Fio\.VN··················· VICKI, We STILL can't believe you're 
NEED 2-6. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT Oct. 31-Nov .2 Can you think of a long list of EXOTIC hereiThings are definttely "Shakin" with 
(605) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. ways to celebrate your birthday, all in KK & BH-they're sooo hotlll You're totally ONE night? WE CANI "The Garden OUTTA CONTROL-especially alter aTICKETS want 2 Rice tix-needn't be together Mark i\··:;;;k:i;;;,·;i··~'d~;~i~;;·;~·-~;;i~;~··ij;~ Level" few Screwdrivers B..t we're still your 3278 glory for your dorrnl (and J.B.) buddies cuz "You Shook Me All Night 
\ LOST/FOUND] 
LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN 
OCT.31-NOV.2 HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY! Long!"
LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY 
WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 I need 1 Rice student ticket. Call# 1647. Oh,and we almost forgot ... 
CROSS SYR. 
will pay CA$h ... call Frank MEEP! MEEP! 
-
IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE 
or Rob-3137 Need 2 Rice GA's call Mike x3235 games, contests,tournaments,movies, ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM AMAZINGII 
FILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580 
dances,partiesllll PRESENTS PROF. DAVID LINK, DEAN HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY! NEED PENN ST TIX TERRY 4013 QUEST FOR THE CROWN OF NOTRE DAME'S LAW SCHOOL, Love, I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY Mon. Oct.31-Fri, Nov.4 SPEAKING ON "HOW I THINK YOU Jen,Kewwy & Stace 
LOST:BUNCH OF KEYS AROUND NO 
PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. HELPIII We desperately need PSU ll<ls.­SHOULD PREPARE FOR LAW POST OFFICE. PLEASE CALL JULI 
student & GA'sll x2607 SCHOOL," MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7 AT 
239-6335. 
HELP I i~·;;;;;;;;;;~·d;;;;;;;g·;~··;;;··~;~;··i,i;;;;;~~·k;;;; 7:00P.M., FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE. ALL Tony Rice, We hed fatth in your arm and 
I desperately need-2 Penn ST GA's at Need 2 Rice GA's. Ann, 2529. on 1V4 and back 11Al, I NEED a ride. ARE INVITED. you really came through for us. The entire LOST: Light-brown teddy-bear w" green 
any cost. $$$$Please call Stacy at x3n1 Will share expenses. Please call Chris team has worked and sacrificed for the Carroll
ribbon on 1(}29 at Haunted I need Rice TICKETS call 3436. al x2923. KEVIN MURPHY student body. You're welcome for our 
House: responds to "Cookie";very sen­HAPPY BIRTHDAY UTTLE BROTHER support.
..................................." .......~ ....................
timental,call 4666 
NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE need PENN STATE GA 288-4160 ON YOUR 21•11 THROW AWAY YOUR 
IS ANYBODY GOING TO DAYTON THIS 
CALL SHEILA--271-9365 FAKE ID'S. YOU ARE LEGAL NOWI To P.F.S.P (Costin M.): Every slam 
LOST-Seiko watch before Oct. break. WEEKEND, NEXT WEEKEND, OR ANY PATRICK, PEG, SUE, MIKE, COL· countsl Love, C.E.K.(S) 
REWARD. Jeff at3151. WEEK-sEND? WILL PAY$. CALL MARY 
4 PENN GA'S NEEDEDII WILL PAY ANY LEEN, & SAM & MOOCH, ETC.
I need 2 GA's and 2 Student tix lor Penn 
284-5128 OR 5117
AMOUNT WITHIN REASON. CALL TIM ••• LONG ISLAND STUDENTS ••• Don't
St. Call Chris at 4478LOST· GOLD BRACELET IN ROOM 6, 
1616 OR BRUCE 313-628-4300 8-Sp.m. PARTY-PARTY # 8 MORRISSEY go home for X-mas by plane. Take the
................................................................
O'SHAG OR NORTH DINING HALL ON WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? 
KEVIN MURPHY IS 21 I Bus From Helllll About $80 round trip.

RICE BEATS NOI! My parents think so.
THURSDAY, OCT. 27. CALL ANITA AT WHAT DO THEY DO?
Muffin is coming to NO finally but she HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Fliers will be mailed soon. ONLY DORKS 
I need 1 or 2 RICE GA's to prove them
4953. COME SEE...EXPO ROMA'88
needs a ticket for PENN STATE (either LOVE, MOM & DAD FL VI LOU (x1433)
wrong. JIM x-2383 

................................................................
GA or student) Please call Beth x1264. 
HELPI Someone picked up my new L.L. James Dean James Dean James Dean Attention SMC FreshmanHElPI HELP! HELP!
Bean Flying Tiger leather jacket during Stop by the LaFortune Ticket Sales from 
HELP ME! I NEED 1 PENN TICKET! Zeto says, "Bring your best gall!" ZETO Roses are red
NEED 3 PENN ST.
the Halloween party at Senior Bar Sat. 12-3 daily and meet James Dean
PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 AND THE HEAT -QNS "All substance-no Violets are blue
STUDS
night. Any info call Mike at 287-5502 no James Dean James Dean James Dean style-and one more reason for your mom Listen up freshman CALL BILL x4306 questions asked. Please return it-it was 
NEED RICE, P-ST GA TIX. ALSO NEED to hate rock and rollll" Friday night at cause we have some news 
my only warm. jacket. NO-USC TRIP TIX FOR SALE 277-4271 
A.F. PROGRAM. CHRIS x1073 THEODORE'S BEGINNING AT All these clues about red 2 RICE GA'S FOR SALE 
10:00P.M. really have something to be said 

LOST: Ruby ring on South Quad.ll found, NEED USC TIX 2n-4271
I'LL BUY ANYTHNG THAT EVEN CALL NANCY AT 2141 Look for posters in halls todayplease call 2731 and ask for Katie. 
CLOSELY RESEMBLES PENN TICK­THEODORE'S presents: PIERCE PET­
Attention SMC Freehrnen
ETS (1 OR 2). CALL LAURA 3756. TIS Nationally acclaimed recording artist­
LOST: a double stranded freshwater ................................................................ Clue # 2 Red, Red Paint It Red plays guitar, harmonica, and sings! Don't PEARL BRACELET at the MORRISSEY I DESPERATiELY NEED ONE RICE November 12 Boo Berry
HELP! I OUR PARENTS FINALLY LET miss him!ll Sunday, November 6 at 
-Don't worry, be happy! US GO TO THE USC GAME AND NOW 1:30P.M.
FORMAL last friday. Has great sentimen­STUDENT TICKETIII IF YOU CAN 
-J ALL WE NEED IS AT LEAST 4 TIX TO
tal valuel If found, PLEASE call Beverly HELP, PLEASE 
at x2605. CALL BETH X4021 AIESEC
THE GAMEl CALL JULIE AT 4351 OR I NEED 4 RICE GA'S PLEASE CALL Walsh SYR
AIESEC
AMY 271-9885 284-5231 GAIL OR MEGAN 
Walsh SYR Royal Blue Book Bag f,;~;;y-~;~;;;;·;;_;ih·;·c;;;·eii.Fiv·~~·;;p·(·~ AIESEC Walsh SYR 
LOST: AIESEC 
PENN STATE 42..0 over NO HAPPY TWENTY ZEROTH. BIRTHDAY 
Buy your tix now! 

Taken from the So. Dining Hall at pun, guys}. I need tour Penn St. GAs. AIESEC
Or ao uye my brother. Need 4 MAGGIE 'MAY' O'CONNOR I WISH I'D 
Nov. 12

Jeff x23n.· AIESEC stuff. etc. PLEASE RETURN ................................................................ 
Lunch on Nov. 2. It contains Arch. GA'a to ah-he's wrong. NEVER SEEN YOUR FACE LOVE, 
Cell Shewn et 2380 to help.$$ YOUR PRAYER SERVICE BUDDY 
Tracey x4032 Looking for 2 Penn St. tix Please call # Deb­
;;;;;~;;·i;;;;;;·;·;-;;;;,~;;··~i~'d;~;··~;jj"t;;;·;;: 
you have been the greatest.
1332 JENNIFER HAPPY ANNIVERSARYIII

lected to represent NO at thhe bowl s-
LOSTIIIIIeH my PEUGEOT watch ih the ................................................................
SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX MONEY Thanks lor a wonderful year Love Greg
game. let's not embarrass NO again. fElt's MONEY$$ MONEY MONEY Call Shana (your club 23 man)
pool room on Thursday 1Qo27 between NEEDED: Two PENN STATE STUDENT 
pick someone with a little class who
2:30 and 4:00PM. It is gold and silver tickets. Call MEGAN 2Sn Thanks! -Mary Jo outdid herseH this year on her
at X2691, offer her 2 Rice tickets and 
knows something about the Irish. listen to whet she'll offer you I FOCUS ON YOUR CAREER
with a white face and a moon B-day. We all enjoyed nu 
dial. REWARD. No questions call GREG NEEDED: One RICE GA, Please call ;;;·"M;~;~;~·i·;;;..i,i-;;;;,·i·;;·i..o~'d·i·;;;·:ii;;;i··· A WORKSHOP FOR ANY STlJDENT 
283-t653. MEGAN at 25n Thanks! Only 7 days until the First Annual US 
we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would be WHO IS UNCLEAR CONCERNING (The Big 'Oh) vs. them (student govt.)
CAREER MON­

really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call seNiof:i..sLoci<.f.'AFin·F·Fiioi>:v·:·oov THEIR DIRECTION.
Lost: Green sweat pants between JACC Fall Football Classic.
walter x2151 or michelle x2844 DAY, NOVEMBER 7; 6:30 p.m.-6:30
18 COME CELEBRATE WITH YOUR Anyone selling their RICE ticket? I'd love CLASSMATiES AND RESIDENTS OF and North Dining Hall Call # 381 o p.m.; FOSTER ROOM, LAFORTUNE. PRESENTED BY CAREER & PLACE­
We need bodacious ta-taa. $$$$ REWARD $$ 20.00 $$ REWARD 
PENN ST. TIX NEEDED NEED GAe end a GA. but would gladly settle for a student SOUTH BEND SENIOR BLOCK PARTY! STlJDENT TIX cell CHRIS or PAT 2053 ticketll Call Colleen at x4053. THANKSII SENIOR BLOCK PARTY! 
MENT. STlJDENTS OF ALL MAJORS $$$$ 

or KAY 4853 INVITED. Kathy P.,
Bookbag taken at South Dining. 
cL.u&iiE~;;.-.-;;rt·~i*-~;;d·;;;g~i~~ You looked great on Halloween! Could
DESPERATiELY need 2 yellow spiral ................................................................
Pt.M give me Penn St. GA'al pizza. Eel In or Carry out. FOCUS ON YOUR CAREER we go for a walk around the lakes?
"Eiectrophysics" ntbks in there. Call I MUST HAVE A PENN STATE TICKET 
Okay, I'll pay good money for them, but A WORKSHOP FOR ANY STlJDENT DavidLaura 28t7 or 2815. $$$$$$$$$ 20.00 
WILL PAY BIG $$$$ CALL STEVE

I really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at ci:u&..23..si~p..by·~;··ii;;;·li;;~:·a~ WHO IS UNCLEAR CONCERNING 
REWARD $$$$$$$$$$$ X1801
283-4220. THEIR CAREER DIRECTION. MON­
IRISH. Beet Rice. DAY, NOVEMBER 7; 6:30 p.m.-6:30 
SMC Freshman Formal LOST: room keys with 202 on them on FOR SALE: 2 RICE GA'S BEST OFFER November 12
I NEED 8 PENN STATE TICKS WILL .i\ii;;··N-.;;;··o~;;;~ ..;;;;~i-·1.1;;;;;;;:··~··;;;;;;;; p.m.; FOSTER ROOM, LAFORTUNE.
"KAL" key ring probably at BURNING 
BY 1 V4 CALL x3n1 Knights of Columbus HOUSE about six weeks ago ALSO 9p.m.-1 a.m. 
PAY TOP$$$ CALL 271-Q904 PRESENTiED BY CAREER & PLACE­
of my brother, a Notre Dame Alumni was MENT. STlJDENTS OF ALL MAJORS
in his glory. 4 day's later he got laid off I NEED PENN STATiE TICKETS IN A INVITED.
LOST: blue Macro text ("Sly") call Sly at 
HELP II! $12 advance, $15 at door
alter 20 years at Xerox. What does he
3122 if you have into I NEED 3 PENN ST. TIX WILL PAY$$$$
BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF 
want? A "Hate Night at Notre Dame" or
CALL MEG AT 284-50871 
THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL "Cathloics vs. Does anyone have access to 2 USC tick­
Convicts" T -shirt. Come BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL ets? or know of any possible sources? 
TO THE 1988 N.D. DRUMMERS 

on, help an Alumni out. If you've got one
I NEED 4 RICE GA'S PLEASE CALL I haved enjoyed all the great times and
TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A Please call Susan 283-4266
to sell call x3263.
FOR RENT 
284~5231 GAIL OR MEGAN all of the support I received from you. I wish you all the best in future years. I FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DON'T 
DELAY-CALL TODAY Ill si~···;;;~~-..s~i;···a·i\:~··s;;~i...Qii;;·..by THE MOST IMPORTANT FILM 
Sara, will never NEVER forget my "family". To

YOU WILL SEE THIS YEAR ... 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-11111188 CALL (616) 962-1664 No shoes, no shirt, no servicelll the seniors, ROCK IS UP I
CRY OF REASON
291-7153. ................................................................. I will never be able to thank you
I need many Penn St. GA'sl Call Pat 
THURS. 11110 7:30 PM et CSC
TWO RICE G.A.s FOR SALE---# 4179 Lou Holtz says, "I'm really worried about enough,. ... ! love you all,FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N BrNk1UI x1535 that Big Oh team. They're a fine club. PAUL "ROCKY" LOUGHRIDGE ju•t 20 mlna. from NO. lc:t..l lor el NO 
need two Rice GA's AF..Fiorc.Fo'RM'i\L·si\i:i:...................... They could play wnh anyone.
ecllvltlea. Re...,.. now. 61&-471-571 1. NEED PENNST TICKETS CALL MIKE­
Call2n-1503
1628 
Set, Nov 5 
Go Big 'Oh II The UNDERGROUND presents 

FUN & DANCINGII! HELP!! Family coming to the PENN ST game. I need 2 GA's and 2 Student tix. I need 6 Penn St. TIX, John x4364 
the Love Mldgeta 
I NEED PENN ST. TIX 2 GA, 2 STU Call 

WANTED 
Mark x1937. CONDITIONAL LOVE? You know n. My 
Happy Birthday, Gregl JJ 1661 Premier CHICAGO campus band 
You must be great to share Appearing tonight at 9:30pm a birthhday with me. In the basement of Grace HallHIRINGI Government job•your ..... My parents would love to see the # 1 brother will only come to see me if 1have 
S15,0011-$68,000. Cell (602) 1138-8665, IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 PSU tix (1:3 stud or GA's) Call KATH The Movie Critic TO THE SAINT MARY'S GIRL whose
Ext. 6262. GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. x1313 if you can help! 
friend from Mich St. was up on Fri. 1Qo28 love midgets an underground prod. and gave me and my buddy a ride from

2Ga's Desired for Penn, just 2-Will pay I need Penn St. GA's ... TOP $$$ need at least 2 penn 'st. ga's chris at Happy Birthhday Romano! 
1352. Campus View, I lett my blue bookbag in RITA PATTiERSON
$$$. Call Wendy at 2845474,soon GUARANTiEEDI Call Andy, 1930. All that jogging and lifting her car. Hyou have nplease call Jeff at I see that you heve a secret admirer, but
................................................................ 
has made you the healthiest 
I NEED 2 PENN STATiE GA'S SO The respect of an older brother-isn't n 283-2061 other clowns around here admire you too. 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT. for 20 year old alive. Maybe 1'/1 
7123

wonderful? In order to retain my brother's now.Call-3476. LOSE TWO MORE DIE-HARD FANS. respect lneed2 PENN STATEtixll! Have 
only$90.00 a month,starting right THAT THE NmANY LIONS CAN let you join my gym one day. 
BUCS 
pity-3767 COMING SOON! 
CALL X4652 TOM KING'S 21at BD Shelly, Shelly, why ya buggin'?
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE Grady and Campen 
P..:AiN·;N·o·siM'Pi:E:·;·Neei:i..iiicii'rix. 11-11-88 . Wink
Apple Computer, Inc... looking for • A winning taam
LOU 289-4315
motivated, enthualutlc lndlvldu•l to 
UB40 UB40 UB40 UB40be e Student Reprnentatlve et Notre .........N.iieo·p-;~~··si~i~··;rt~·...ii~·...$$$...... TICKET HELP!!! I desperately need a ride to exn Happy Birthday Maureen Blake Today is 
Dame. Knowledge of Meclntoah Hi J. Crew and Kevin! 
call John # 1806 FOR SALE 22 on the PA turnpike for Thanksgiving. your dayl Have a good onel LoVe your
aoftW•re product• •• well •• owner­Love, Bets and Janice
FACE VALUE, CALL x2706 CONCERT Can leav&teturn anytimell Will share ex­roomie-=-Leticiaahlp of • Meclntoah I• dealred. You 
HiiLf.·!·i··~;;;;i··2 ..Fii~··C3~··d;;p;;;~i;iv IS TONIGHT SO CALL NOW penses/ driving I Call Aileen x4975. ................................................................
ahould be e lre•hm•n, aophomore or K.R. -Do you like blind dates with receding Frank ("Do me"): 
Call Tina at x4846 JUNIORSIII JUNIORSIII LAST DAY HAPPYHAPPYHAPPYHAPPY
junior and be m•rt<etlng oriented. We hairlines? If so, call x2694 
require· 5-10 houra (e week) of your 
8:.\i:ii:v··i~..~;;;;;;··~;··ii··;;~~~-·si;;i~··ii~··;; FOR DOGBOOK PICTURESII TODAY BIRTHDAYBIRTHDAYBIRTHDAYI
time. You will help org•nlze end run To KC,
RICE TICKET FOR SALE CALL 2706 RM 002 LAFORTUNE, 4-7PM Wading for a rainy day, stud 4 GA call t767 evenings
eventa •• well •• put up poatera end My favorite sweeney sister. Thanks for luv: Agnes & Edie
dlatrlbute flyere. If you are lntereated, NEED PENN STATE G.A. & STUDENT the vicar:iQus jhril. But hang on to those
N·;;;d··:r:;~·;;;~~:·C3:A'.:;·;~;j-:;;iii·~~--~~~ BUMP
pleaae cell 312-399-4903 and leaVe· TIX CALL DON # 272-0456 shoes, ~·s nippy outside. 
ANDlimited green sluff Call 232-9541 and

your name and a time you can be Love, Molly GRND uscleave message • 
reached. This California Native Needs 4 USC Tix 
PACKAGEN·iieo·..;···s:r·uo··&···;;··C3~iPENN...sl) Happy unbirthday Stephanie Thomas! WITH FOR
Please help out. # 1805 John RIDER WANTED to CO SPG$10EN 
SALEMelissa x2707leaving Dec t 6'17 alter finals. Seve $$ 

Need 3 USC GAs please!!! Call Judy at Scrabble is a very nice tuna looking for NO HOCKEY $400 or BEST OFFER and see the country. Call Shane 1142 239-6515.-Aiso need Penn St. GAs.
N'i:i~·usc:·:r"Ri;;·;:;:x·Foii.si\i:E..277:4271 a sea to swim ln. Call Sarah at 284-4310 or Martha at 
................................................................ 
FRI NOV4 (3130685-9494. Leave message.

I NEED 1 RICE STUD TIC. DOUG 2243 QUICK! NEED 1 RICE STUD TIX # 4364 
N'iieo.usc:·:rix·2:n:42·7·;······················ Becky Miller, 7:30PM
................................................................ 
Good luck against Mich. St. Go Irish! To the guy who shared his umbrella with USC PACKAGE FOR SALEWanted a VHS video tape of the Miami­
SUPPORT THE IRISH me Tues alternoon between Flanner and $400 or Best offer .Call Sarah at 284-4310 Karen Ka., AS THEY FACE MICH-DEARBORN St.Ed's, I forgot to thank you. -The girt 
Notre Dame Game. Will pay top dollar. PLEASE I 
Contact Unden Johnston at (214)-979-I need 1 PENN ST. stud. Cell Kathy or Martha-(313)685-9494.' 
Enjoy UB40 for me since I can't go. from McCandless PS. Who are you?
2500 x3212 

---~---~------------~ ~---------~--------­
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
New York defenseman Shaw receives 12-game suspension 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK--Defenseman David Shaw of the New York Rangers was suspended for 12 games Wednesday by the Na­tional Hockey League for slash­ing Pittsburgh Penguins star Mario Lemieux. 
"Although this is the first of­fense of this nature committed by Mr. Shaw, he nevertheless deliberately swung his stick with two hands in an overhead manner, making contact with and causing injury to Lemieux," NHL executive vice president Brian O'Neill said. 
"His excuse that he 
retaliated because he was ,.....-----------------------, cross-checked by Lemieux is Wish your friends a Happy Birthday
totally unacceptable." rfl 1 
Lemieux, the NHL's leading through Observer adve s ng. scorer, suffered a bruised chest CaII 239·5303 for defalis. from the slash during the third L------------------------1 
period of Sunday's ·Rangers-
Penguins game. He remained face down on the ice for nearly 
Pittsburgh Penguins star Marlo Lemieux (66), In action here against 
five minutes before leaving un­
the Calgary Flames, suffered a bruised cheat Sunday after being 
der his own power. shaw
slashed by the New York Rangers' David Shaw. The NHL has 
received a five-minute major
suspended Shaw for 12 games. 
Sox name new skipper 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--Jeff Torborg, a former major league catcher who once managed the Cleveland Indians, was named Thursday as manager of the Chicago White Sox. 
The 46-year-old Torborg replaced Jim Fregosi, who was fired last month after the team finished fifth in the AL west 
with a 71-90 record.
Torborg, who had a 157-201 record with the Indians from 1977-79, has agreed to a two­year contract, terms of which were not disclosed, team offi­cials said. 
'Governor, you're no Lloyd Bentsen . 
..____...York, NY 10016 
A magazine dedicated to promote awareness and understanding 
., of international issues is being • developed. We are looking for students (both undergraduates and graduates) interested in the following positions: 
Applications will 
available at the 
lounge, second 
floor La Fortune 
Center. 
For more 
information, call: 
Manuel Cuevas 
1233 
t'~···~ ..J and a match penalty. 
KELLY 
O'BRIEN SMC will be 21 tomorrow! 11-5-88 
,!5~~~!~~~!!~i!:e=~a!.
1 
You've come a long­
way from Stinson 
Beach to Notre 
Dame... 
Happy 18th 
Birthday Joe 



Rangers were playing Wednes­day night, New York coach Michel Bergeron said did not agree with the length of the suspension. 
"I think it's a severe suspen­sion," Bergeron said. "He's a clean player. It's the first time he's ever used his stick. 
"David doesn't have a bad reputation. He's a great guy. I would like my son to grow up and be like him." 
Bergeron called Shaw's suspension a big loss for the team because its defense already is decimated by injur­ies. 
Lemieux returned to action Tuesday night, scoring two third-period goals to lead the Penguins to a 5-3 victory over the Vancouver Canucks. 

Shaw's suspension went into effect immediately. 
He is the fourth NHL player to be suspended this week. On Monday, Mark Messier of Ed­monton, Rick Tocchet of Philadelphia and Dave Manson of Chicago were suspended for violent behavior during games. 
Messier was suspended six games for slashing, Tocchet 10 games for eye-gouging and Manson 10 games for starting a fight at the end of a game. 
CHIM-ES LITERARY MAGAZINE NOW ACCEPTING
PLAYS 
POEMS 
SHORT STORIES SUBMIT TO 303 MADELEVA BY TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22 FOR FALL CONSIDERATION 


IllALUMNI 
SENIOR 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllh ~cLuB'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIll 
== == 
== == 
=== = 
== = 
Let's RAGE! 

We're .... 1.' =
111ft! 
ii

== = 
-ue of'··· \s at tne Cl: 
.:;,~\~~~ ~:~~ea:~;oo a.t1'· .s,..1·. ~os 

== = 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5 
THE 


Engineering Aud. $2 00 
8:00 and TO:OO · 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~­

Weekend Edition November 4-5 1988 The Observer page 17 
Birmingham prepares for final home game with ND 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
Kathleen Birmingham never kicked a soccer ball before her senior year in high school. 
That was five years ago, and when the Irish women's soccer team takes on Michigan State today in the final game of its season, she will play in her last game as a Notre Dame varsity athelete. 
That's pretty impressive, but one gets the distinct impression that it's all just part of a day's work for Birmingham. Per­haps it's her analytical back­ground as a biology major, but challenge does not seem to be a word that she shrinks from. 
Confident and capable, she has a great sense of what needs to be done--and how to do it. 
Back in the beginning, Bir­mingham played defense. 
"I played fullback because I didn't have any skills," st!e says matter-of-factly. 
The solution? Jump right into 
the  soccer  scene  at  Notre  
Dame.  
"I  really  learned to  play  

during the winters of my fresh­man and sophomore years here when a bunch of us would play indoors three or four nights a week," she said. 
The fast-paced action of the indoor game helped her to develop those basic skills, which she refined as a forward on the Notre Dame club team. 
Make your Notre Dame weekend 
a complete treat with dinner at
AFTER 
NOTRE DAME 
Miller's Country House. See us 
s1zzle and sear the freshest 
THE HOTTEST GAME AROUND 

CO~HOUSE 616-469-5950 
seafood, steaks and chops over an open charcoal grill. Try our Indonesian Salay, Blackened Fish, or the incredible rack of lamb. Don't miss the famous flourless chocolate cake and our ow_n ice creams ~a de with fresh fru1ts. EnJOY the mformal atmosphere of a country saloon in our grill room or delight in the 
woodland view from the garden room. Fabulous food, great drinks and a smashing decor. 
On Route 12 in Union Pier, MI/Just 30 minutes from South Bend 
When the team turned varsity 
this year, coach Dennis Grace 
assigned her to midfield, a new 
challenge and a new success. 
"I am very comfortable 
where I am now," she said. 
"The way we have it set up 
there is a lot of transition work. 
You have to be really quick and 
very consistent or you'll get · beat." 
"I have to concentrate on 
making the plays," she said. 
"What's the sense of me drib­
bling up the side of the field and 
shooting when my forward is 
in front of me, ready to cross 
it in to the people with the bet­
ter odds?" 
Nevertheless, Birmingham 
has recorded four goals, includ­
ing two game-winners and two assists. 
"If the opportunity is there of course I'll take it, but as a halfback, that's not really my job," she said." 
It is this efficiency that has lead Notre Dame to a 13-5-1 record in its first varsity season. 
"It's been a great first year," Birmingham said. "The en­thusiasm is always there. There are at least six people who constantly sit the bench, but they are out there every day. It's easy to practice when you know you are going to start, but they are out there and enthusiastic. I have absolute respect for that, that's the stuff that proves character. As long as you can say you enjoyed 


Fast Folk Musical Magazine Greenwich Village, New York City 
A nationally recognized and acclaimed writer, singer, and player of songs. 
hitting guitar work, expert harmonica solos, and rich, resonant vocals" as wei as" quiet perceptive humor" to produce an extradorinarily enjoyable show 
His performance includes selections from the Beatles, Johann Sebastian Bach, Bruce Cockburn, Hank Williams, Joni Mitchell and Bob Dylan, as well as his own original pieces. 
His name is Pierce Pettis and the consensus is that he's among the most talented additions to our stable of singer/songwriters in recent years." 
This show is a "must see!" THIS SUNDAY 1 :30 PM in Theodore's 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
"i~~~"'"\.~~ 
~ ~ \.~\\"\,;. 
HAPPY 21ST KEVIN 
MURPHY 
LOVE MOM & DAD 
presents: 
The multi-talented recording and performing artist 
PIERCE PETTIS 
doing it, then it's all worth it." 
The same can be said of her stay at Notre Dame. Although she grimaces at the mention of graduating, Birmingham 
-seems pretty sure of herself. Currently interviewing for jobs in pharmaceutical sales, she says that she is ready for a change of scenery. 
"I'm ready to move on, as any senior is," she said. "It would be nice to go back to Bos­ton, but I'm leaving my options open." 
One can't help but think that no matter where she ends up, Birmingham will confidently and efficiently prove that to a character as capable as hers, a challenge is just a success waiting to happen. 
Correction 
-
Special to The Observer 
It was incorrectly re­ported in Thursday's issue of The Observer that sopho­more Todd Tomazic qualified for the NCAA tournament. Sophomore Todd Layton actually qualified, not Tomazic. 
Also, Pat Boyd is not from Cleveland and did not suffer a shoulder injury last season. The resident of Mount Pleasant, Mich., in­jured his knee. 
AMERICAN 
+
CANCER 
SOCIE1Y® 

l 
I 
I I I I I 
l 
1 
l 1 
I 
1 I I 

r 
page 18 The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
After Ditka's heart attack, coaches debate job stress 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO AP --Pro football is a game of big crowds, big expectations and big money-­factors that NFL coaches say combine to generate big stress. That could lead to events like the heart attack suffered by Bears' coach Mike Ditka. 
Some of his colleagues said Thursday they accept stress as part of the game. 
"Coaching is no more stress­ful than being in management at a place like Honeywell or 3M," says Minnesota Vikings coach Jerry Burns, who believes Ditka's personality, more than his job, may have set the stage for the Chicago coach's coronary. 
"Mike is just more ex­citable," Burns said. "I don't think it had anything to do with football, really ... It could have happened to him if he was a car salesman or insurance salesman.'' 
But Gene Stallings, coach of the Phoenix Cardinals, said he could well understand how much pressure Ditka was un­der. 
"It's surprising there are not more of them," Stallings said of the attack that hospitalized Ditka. "You hear of the stress all the time. And the bad eating habits. I should know about that. And you don't get a lot of sleep with a job like this." 
Spike 
continued from page24 
who has stepped into the lineup as an outside hitter, has been playing well as of late, tallying 13 kills and a team-high 15 kills against LSU and will try to con­tinue her well-rounded play. 
Senior middle blocker Mary Kay Waller has consistently been a force to be reckoned with this season, recording a team-high 294 kills and 135 total blocks so far, and will shoulder much of the burden offensively and defensively. 
Senior Zanette Bennett has been playing well too, after recuperating from an illness, and has registered 254 kills for a team-high .295 hitting percentage and added 88 total blocks and 178 digs as well. 
Seniors Maureen Shea and Whitney Shewman have con­tributed to the Irish cause too. Shea has recorded 200 kills to spur the offense and Shewman has tallied a team-high 231 digs defensively. Shewman, though, may not see action this weekend if soreness in her knees persists. 
Freshman setter Julie Brem­
ner has established herself as 
a force in many categories, as 
she has 901 assists--the second 
highest single season total for 
the Irish--and also places 
second on the team with 228 
digs and third on the team with 
71 total blocks. 
"Our chances to get a bid are 
about 5000 at this point," said 
Lambert. "We've got to know 
where we are and what we're 
about and know we can do what 
it takes to get where we're 
going." 
Ditka, 49, the Bears coach since 1982, suffered a mild heart attack Wednesday fol­lowing a workout at the team's suburban Lake Forest practice complex. His condition was upgraded to fair Thursday, and he was reported to be joking with his doctor and free of pain. 
Steve Kazor, an assistant Bears coach, was one of two coaches who brought Ditka to the hospital. He said the episode caused him to reflect on how much time and effort goes into the job. 
"You get here at 4 o'clock in the morning Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday," Kazor said. "I get home late at night. . . There's always the pressure of trying to win a game. The peaks and valleys are just un­believable." 
The Bears won two weeks ago on a Monday night, beating San Francisco 10-9, then lost Sunday to New England 30-7. 
"Who's tq say" whether one tough game could lead to a heart attack, said Dr. Jay Al­exander, Ditka's cardiologist. 
Tom Landry, coach of the Dallas Cowboys, said there's "no question" that stress is a part of the job--especially when fans get unhappy. 
Landry, who has been with Dallas nearly three decad~s, said he follows an exercise pro­week to keep in shape. 
His 2-7 team has lost five games in a row, with last­minute plays often deciding the games. 
"Sure, it's been a lot tougher than it normally is," Landry said. "The coming down to the wire doesn't bother me. It's losing the football games." 
Landry has been the subject of newspaper polls asking fans if he should retire. 
"That's where most of the pressure comes from--from outside," Landry said. "When you're losing football games, everybody's on you. The media's on you, the fans are on you. That's where most of the stress comes from." 
Domenic Gentile, head trainer of the Green Bay Pack­ers, said Lindy Infante, the team's head coach, seems to handle stress well. But he said stress is ever-present. 
"That's the nature of the beast," he said. 
And Ditka, who is known to express his feelings in no un­certain terms, may develop dif­ferent ways of dealing with it. 
"He understands what hap­pened," Alexander said of the heart attack. "He's going to join us in compromise and be better for it." 
N D football receives honor in classroom 
Associated Press 
Not only is Notre Dame No. 1 in on-the-field rankings this week, the Irish also are No. 1 in the classroom. 
For the fourth time in eight years, Notre Dame has won the College Football As­sociation's Academic Achievement Award. 
Created in 1981 and pre­sented annually by the Touchdown Club of Memphis, Tenn., the award recognizes the CF A member with the highest graduation rate among its football players. 
Notre Dame registered a perfect 100 percent success rate when it graduated its entire incoming class of 1982 within five years. It's the first time since the award was established that any in­stitution has registered a perfect graduation rate. 
In addition, 12 other CF A schools received honorable mention .for having graduated 70 percent or more of the football players who entered in 1982--Boston College, Duke, Georgia Tech, Kansas State, Ken­tucky, Maryland, Penn State, Rice, Syracuse, Tulane, Vanderbilt and Vir­ginia. 

Notre Dame also received the award in 1982, 1983 and 1984. It was shared by Duke in 1984, which also won it in 1981 and 1987. Virginia was the winner in 1985 and 1986. 
"We don't have two programs--an academic pro­gram and an athletic pro­gram," said the Rev. E. William Beauchamp, execu­tive vice president of Notre Dame. "We have an educa­tional program which in­cludes academics and ath­letics and we expect our athletes to graduate at the same rate as everyone else. In this case, we are pleased that they've done even bet­ter than that." 

IIOCKEY 
VS. 
MICHIGAN DEARBORN 
7:30PM Friday, Nov. 4 
JACC 
$3.00/adult $2.00/student Blue-Gold Cards valid 



~~==-''--=='~"~ 
Friday November 4 This weekend: 
ZETO AND THE HEAT-ONS 
A popular campus rock and roll band. Don't miss them! Beginning at 1O:OOpm 
Saturday, November 5 Campus D.J.s will be playing your favorite tunes. We have all new music this week ordered at your request so come check it out and dance, dance, dance!! 
9-2am 

Don't forget to seek out Ted's Hideaway for great food Dnd drinks! 
-------~-­
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 The Observer 
NBA season opens tonight 
Associated Press 
The Dallas Mavericks, who lost in seven games in the West­ern Conference finals last season, are standing pat. The two-time NBA defending champion Los Angeles Lakers made a big move in the new unrestricted free agent mar­ket. 
The two teams will test their offseason strategies Friday night in one of 10 NBA season openers. 
The Lakers added free agent Orlando Woolridge and rookie David Rivers, giving Coach Pat Riley a chance to give his veterans a rest, especially 41­year-old Kareem Abdul­Jabbar. 
"For eight or nine years, we have been a seven-man rota­tion team," Riley said. "With the addition of Orlando Wool­ridge, the development of Tony Campbell and drafting David Rivers, this could be the deepest bench the Lakers have had in nine years." 
Nothing will change in the starting lineup as Abdul-Jabbar opens his 20th season alongside Magic Johnson, Byron Scott, 
A.C. green and James Worthy. 
The Mavericks, meanwhile, have done virtually nothing to change the team that lost to the Lakers in the Western Confer­ence finals. The only roster move so far is the signing of veteran Terry Tyler as a re­placement for reserve Detlef Schremp£, who might miss all of November because of an in­jured ankle. 
"There's a side of me that feels that we needed to do 
Stern .addresses fight proqlems 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -It's too early to telliftbe addition of a third official will curtail..fighttng in tbe.NBA1 Com~ missioner David Stern said Thursday: 
Stern made. that comment dUJ:'ing a news .CQnference following the annual tipoff luncheOn for the Indiana Pacers. 
The appe~nce came one day ·~er . the ~gue an­nounced $24,500 in fihes to 20 players mvolved uueparate fights during exhibition games involving Washington, Bos­ton and Detroit The Bullets were involved in two incidents. 
"That has nothing to do with the tbree~man system," Stern said of the fines. "There was a fight tbat sbouldn.'t have been and we've sent out a severe message that we won't tolerate it." 
";''l"'lit Detroit's :t:tick M~horn and Bos~n's Larry 1~he largest fmes, w1th Mahorn losmg $5,000 ··· The commissioner said he isn't sure the fa fine of any size will stop an annoyed player from trying to punch another. ·'f:~''"' 1 ''''''''· 


"But it has been our experience that fights were last year from the previous year. A couple o(players stood with their hands at their sides because they the last time they didn't it cost them money," he "You can be sure that any.additional fine is an deterrent to our no matter.what they are 
something," General Manager Norm Sonju said. "It's been very hard on me personally to see a couple of teams being able to go out and do things. 
"But there's another side of me that says, 'Look, you don't ever want to make a move to make a move. You should only make a move to improve.' I want to move only to improve." 
Other Friday openers in­clude New York at Boston, At­lanta at New Jersey, the Los Angeles Clippers at Philadel­phia, Cleveland at Charlotte, Milwaukee at Indiana, Detroit at Chicago, Houston at Denver, Seattle at Utah and Phoenix at Portland. 
Charlotte will be playing its first ever regular-season game. Another expansion entry, Miami, will play host to the Clippers in its opener on Saturday. 

really can't fail. In fact, it may even improve your G.P.A.: 
Should you buy one of our Macintosh·· Plus personal computers? Or one of our Macintosh SE personal computers? 
The answer, of course, depends. 
If you've been holdiiout for that ever-elusive combination of hi perfonnance and affordability, you'll very · ely want our Macintosh Plus. It has one full megabyte of RAM.l28K of ROM. And adouble-sided SOOK internal disk drive. 
Translated, that means the 
Macintosh Plus can plot astatistical fonnula 
or repaginate areport in the time it took you 
to read this sentence. 
But-ifyou truly want to expand your horizons-we suggest the Macintosh SE. It has all the attributes ofthe Plus, plus aUttle more. Like one megabyte of RAM, expandable to four megabytes. Awalloping 256K of ROM. As well as an expansion slot that lets you customize the system for your particular neros. 
And to ensure you have plenty of 
space for your growing intellect, the SE gives 
you achoice of two storage options. Either 
two built-in 800Kdisk drives. Or one built-in 
800K disk drive along with an internal 
20-megabyte hard disk. 
So even ifyour tenn paper begins to reach epic proportions, you can rest assured you'll have room for the whole thing. All six hundred footnotes included. 
Th learn more, visit your campus microcomputer center. They'll gladly answer any questions, including the one your parents will ask: 
How much? 
tl.The power to be yourbesr 

Computer Ce~ter Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
-.. ..-.. .. 
page 19 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The pep rallyfor the Rice game will be held today in Stepan Center at 7:00p.m. -The Observer 
lnterhall football semifinals Sunday pit Dillon against Fisher at 1 p.m. and Alumni against Stanford at 2: 15 p.m. Both games will be at North Stepan Field. -The Observer 
Basketball season tickets will be distributed today ·to those students who did not apply earlier for tickets but still want them. There are 2,000 remaining season tickets. 
-The Observer 
The USF&G Flag Football Drive to Cure Paralysis is scheduled for Friday, Nov. 11, through Sunday, Nov. 
13. The entry deadline is Monday. Teams may register at Non-Varsity. Call239-6100 for more details. -The Observer 
WVFI-640 AM will broadcast Irish hockey tonight at 
7:30 when Notre Dame hosts Michigan-Dearborn. Jamey Rappis and Will Clark will call the action live. -The Ob­server 
The NO Tae Kwon Do club welcomes beginning students to participate in the last half of the semester for half the membership fee (only $25). Practices are Monday and Wednesday at the Joyce ACC fencing gym from 8:30 to 10 p.m. Also, the NATKDA tournament is coming up in Constantine, Mich., on Dec. 3, to be followed by an awards banquet. All Notre Dame tournament competitors should check with R. Jennings. -The Observer 
WVFI-640 AM will broadcast the Notre Dame-Rice football game Saturday. Join Bob Splude and Kevin McCor­mack as the call the action. Coverage begins at 11:45 a.m. 
-The Observer 
Rockne Memorial hours from fall break to spring break have the building open from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. from Monday to Thursday, from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Friday and from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Recreational swimming hours are from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., 12 noon to 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Monday to Friday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday and 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7:30p.m. to 11 p.m. on Sunday. Fr. Lange weight room (302) hours are 3 p.m. to 10:30 
p.m. on Monday to Friday and 12 noon to 9 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. -The Observer 
Heres amultiple choice quiz you 

l 
l 
" 
l 
l 
--------------------------~~·----~~­
page 20 The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
ND hockey primed to continue rivalry 
By STEVE MEGARGEE had their problems with West-Assistant Sports Editor ern Michigan and Alaska­Anchorage, Dearborn has split What emerged as a rivalry a two-game series at Air Force last season continues this and lost 6-3 to Colorado College. weekend as the Notre Dame "I know they (Dearborn) are hockey team faces Michigan-going to be improved," said Dearborn in a home-and-away Schafer. "They lost to Colorado series. College, and it's no disgrace The Irish, 2-3, will host the losing to a team that's coming Wolves tonight at 7:30p.m. in on in the WCHA. I just know the Joyce ACC, then head to from talking to their assistant 
Dearborn for the second game of the weekend set on Saturday. The Saturday game will be Dearborn's home opener. 
"These were two pretty even teams last year," said Irish co­ach Ric Schafer. "I expect two pretty good games this weekend." 
Notre Dame only lost four games all of last season, and three of those defeats came at the hands of Dearborn. 
Dearborn won three of the four regular-season meetings between the two teams, en­abling them to win the Ameri­
over the summer that they had an excellent recruiting class." ~otre Dame will be playing 
without the services of injured defensemen Bruce Haikola and Kevin Markovitz. Haikola suf­fered a thigh contusion earlier this week in practice, and Markovitz has a recurring ankle problem. 
"They will not play this weekend, that's for sure," said Schafer. "It's hard to say after that.'' 
Notre Dame's first line of defense this weekend will con­sist of Tim Caddo and Mike 

Roy Bemiss (left) and Tim Caddo (center) will The Observer I Scott McCann have added responsibilities on the Irish defense Markovitz are out with Injuries. The Irish are at this weekend, as both Mike Leherr and Kevin home against Michigan-Dearborn tonight. 
can Collegiate Hockey Leherr. Roy Bemiss will play Association regular-season on the second unit, but those championship. Notre Dame are the only certainties on the stopped the Wolves 5-2 at Dear-injury-decimated Irish born to win the ACHA post-defense. season tournament. The Irish also are continuing 
Neither team has enjoyed as to shuffle their lines. This much success so far this weekend's series sees fresh­season, if only because the two man center David Bankoske teams have faced difficult op-moving up to the first line, ponents. While the Irish have where he is flanked by Tim 
NCAA penalizes Cincinnati Bearcats 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI--The Univer­sity of Cincinnati football and basketball teams were banned from postseason play for one year Thursday and placed on probation for three years for NCAA recruiting and scholar­ship violations. 
The NCAA said Cincinnati 
Swim 
continued from page 24 
One of the major factors in the Horned Frogs' success was standout senior Doug Ellis, who triumphed in the 50-and 100-yard freestyle eyents. For the TCU women, senior Barb Neily captured the top spot in the 500-and 1000-yard freestyle races. 
Today at 4 p.m., the Notre 
Dame Invitationals again will . 
feature the Irish and the 
Horned Frogs, along with 
Illinois-Chicago and Xavier. 
gave financial aid to basketball players who were ineligible, al­lowed non-scholarship players to attend school without paying tuition, exceeded limitations on football and basketball schol­arships and used gym classes as out-of-season football prac­tices. 
Cincinnati also housed a o-Kuehl and co-captain Matt Hanzel. 
Bankoske is tied with senior Bob Herber for the team lead in points. Bankoske has one goal with five assists, and Her­ber has scored two goals while tallying four assists. 
"He (Bankoske) is a skilled hockey player, and he's coming along fine," said Schafer. "He's playing a little better all the time, and we're pleased 
tential basketball recruit in a dormitory for three weeks and arranged for another to stay in a hotel at a reduced rate for two weeks. The school also ar­ranged for a reduced hotel room rate for the high school coach of two basketball recruits. 
with his progress." 
The second line has Bruce Guay, Bob Bilton and Herber. Senior center and co-captain Brian Montgomery has Rob Bankoske and freshman Mike Curry at his sides on the third line. The fourth line features freshmen Mark McClew and Mike Musty with sophomore Chris Olson. 

Junior goalie Lance Mad­son, who has saved 87.6 percent of the opponents' shots so far this season, will man the nets for Notre Dame this weekend. 
Friday's game will be bever­age cup night at the JACC. In a promotion sponsored by 
Mateo's  Subs,  1,000  Notre  
Dame  drinking  cups  will  be  
given away.  

The Notre Dame Golf Shop 

Exclusive Notre Dame Golf Wear and Equipment Distinctive Gifts for Christmas and all Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hat!, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas Open Year-Round Located '"Oo the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial Ice Cream -Fountain Service 
SEND FOR OUR BROCHURE AND ORDER FORM 
Gotr Shop -University or Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239-6425 
NEXT TRIP TO CAM PUS ... 

VISIT THE BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE 18 Hole Golf Course Puuing Green Practice Fairway 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP Exclusive Notre Dame Golf Wear and Equipment Distinctive Gifts for Christmas and all Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas Located "'Oo the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
SEND FOR OUR BROCHURE AND ORDER FORM 
Golf Shop -Unlverslt)' of :-lotre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239-6425 

DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND AMERICAN DISHES 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS 

• 
FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION 

• 
HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE 


DINING ·VEGETARIAN MENU 
6329 University Commons HOURS Man Thurs 11 AM 9 (Across From University Park Mall) Friday II AM 10 PM South Bend. IN 46635 Saturd"Y 12 NoordO PM 
I or Ur•servatiom & Carry-Out Call: 
272-6702 
OMICRON DELTA EPSILON CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO A 
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION FORUM 

ON NOVEMBER 7TH IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE AT 7:00 P.M. PROFESSORS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS 
James Rakowski David Betson Kenneth Jameson 

WILL ACTIVELY DISCUSS THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE'S ECONOMIC POLICIES 
A RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW 

--~-------~ ------~---------~~~ 
Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 The Observer page 21 
Dodgers only team 
without incentives 
Associated Press 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif.-­
The World Series champion 
Los Angeles Dodgers were 
the only major league team 
that did not put any bonus 
clauses in players' contracts 
this season while the Oak­
land Athletics offered more 
than $1 million in incentives. 
The information was given 
to general managers at their 
annual meeting that 
produced a trade sending 
pitcher Bert Blyeleven to the 
California Angels from the 
Minnesota Twins. 
There was also a discus­
sion about replacing injured 
players in the postseason, 
but no resolution. . 
"It came out of what hap­
pened in this year's World 
Series. John Tudor and Mike 
Scioscia both came out of 
games because they were 
legitimately hurt," said 
Dodgers general manager 
Fred Claire. "We were left 
with one catcher. That's 
something you need to ad­
dress." 
"You would hope that if you appeal to the commis­sioner's office, he would be able to take action in the best interest of baseball," Claire said. "No formal action was taken today and we'll con­tinue to talk about it." 
Injuries have played a big 
part in three of the last four 
postseasons. The St. Louis 
Cardinals lost Vince Cole­
man to a freak tarpaulin ac­
cident in the 1985 playoffs 
and they played without in­jured star Jack Clark in the 1987 World Series. 
While the deal that sent Blyleven to the Angels for minor league propects was the only one made, others may follow. 
Many general managers use these meetings to lay groundwork for trades that come later. There has been speculation, and denials, that the Cubs would deal shortstop Shawon Dunston to the New York Mets for shortstop Kevin Elster and relief pitcher Roger McDowell. 
A management report showed teams offered a pos­sible $12,711,500 in achieve­ment bonuses and paid $6,545,083, about 51 percent. In 1987, clubs paid $7,226,444, around 56 percent. 
r-------------------------, 
~ball
~~t98B 
UK investigates pawning incident 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky.--The Uni­versity of Kentucky dean of stu­dents said he will try to finish within one to two weeks an in­vestigation involving basket­ball freshman Shawn Kemp, who police say pawned gold chains stolen from a team­mate. 
"I will talk to all of the prin­cipals involved," said Doug Wilson, the dean, "just like I would in any case involving a student. Punishments can range anywhere from a repri­mand to probation to suspen­sion and dismissal from the school." 
The investigation is to deter­mine whether Kemp violated the school's Code of Student Conduct. Kemp could appeal the decision to a university judicial board if not satisfied, Wilson said Tuesday. 
Sean Sutton's two 14-karat gold chains had a total value of $700 and were stolen from his dorm room in Wildcat Lodge; where Kemp also lives, on Sept. 22. 
Kemp sold two gold chains to 
previous years, the money and the walk to the J ACC should pay 

Digger 
off. Even if the Irish don't win as many games as they expect 

continued from page 24 
to, and even if the "Battle to the other team," Phelps said Seattle" ends early in the Tuesday at Cavanaugh Hall, a NCAA Tournament, the losses few hours after he· escorted are bound to be more exciting Bush to football practice. than some of last year's vic­"Cheering for the other team-­tories. that's not what Notre Dame is And that's what Phelps' plat­all about." form is all about. He promises 
But last year, complacency his young and inexperienced was a reality, and the student Irish will be running-and­body is not completely at fault. gunning at every opportunity, The Irish played a home he has the talent to back up his schedule that included wea­promise and, most important­klings like Prairie View A&M, ly, most of the weaklings have Penn, Yale and Creighton. been erased from the schedule. Notre Dame beat eventual na­"I like the JUICe, the tional champion Kansas in one electricity, the style, the of the only exciting victories, chemistry ·of this team," said but even traditionally-strong Phelps, who stacked the home Marquette was a patsy last schedule with teams like In­year. diana, SMU, Syracuse,
The Irish also played a slow-
Temple, Duke, USC, Boston down game, so the students College, Houston and Louis­who did show up often could be · ville, in addition to regulars found fighting to stay awake in like DePaul, Marquette and their seats. Or leaving at Dayton. "All we do in practice halftime. is run and press. These guys 
But if the same thing happens want to run, and I'm just going this year, the students are at to send them out and let them fault. go." 
Even though tickets are not Junior guards and · co­cheap and the application captains Joe Fredrick and forms were not mailed to each Jamere Jackson lead a team student like they have been in with no seniors. But there is no Johnson's Diamond Exchange on Oct. 20 for $180, according to Sgt. Dan Gibbons of the Lex­ington Metro Police, who inves­tigated the incident and filed the police reports naming Kemp. 
Sutton is not pressing charges, and the police have closed the case. Kemp's lawyer, Thomas Miller, said he considered the case clo::o.ed. Kemp's "version is something he told me, and I'm not at li­berty to discuss it," the lawyer said. 
shortage of talent on this team. Sophomore Tim Singleton brings plenty of quickness to the point guard position, where he takes over for David Rivers. Sophomore Kevin Ellery and junior Tony Jackson return and look to expand their roles as forwards. 
Inside, 6-9 freshman sensa­tion LaPhonso Ellis should be sharing time with juniors Keith Robinson (6-9) and Scott Pad­dock (6-9), as well as fellow freshman Keith Tower (6-11). 
The other three freshmen also will see plenty of court time if the Irish run as much as Phelps indicates. Guard El­mer Bennett averaged 35.8 points a game to win the Mr. Basketball title in Texas, 6-5 forward Daimon Sweet averaged 24.8 points and 7.9 r-ebounds as a prep all-star, and Keith Adkins' job description is "to shoot the three," according to Phelps. 
Up-tempo basketball, a grueling schedule and a young, talented team: that is Phelps•· platform as he campaigns for the upcoming basketball season, which starts with an ex­hibition game Nov. 18 against Yugoslavia. 
It promises to be much more interesting than watching George Bush walk all over Mike Dukakis, or listening to the vice president's speech Tuesday at Stepan Center. 

***OPEN UNTIL 3AM FRIDAY/SATURDAY 
CATERING FOR TAILGATERS & SYRs OWNER-MATT HIGHBARGER NO '89 
1 -soc-ENfs-oFFT___sTOOOFF____i___s2:000FF-1 
I ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA I (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN TWO 16" ROUND PIZZAS) I
I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I , I 277-8889 I 277-8889 I 277-8889 
I 

I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 12QM38 ~~ UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 12{)1;88 ~~UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 12{)1;88I 18055 ST AD 23 18055 ST. RD. 23 18055 ST RD. 23 
~----------------------------------------­
page 22 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
actuality, Notre Dame's drive for the playoffs started four years ago with the recruitment of this year's senior class. 
"Right now, we're in a posi­tion where the seniors can go out with a fantastic finish," said Grace. "If we do well (in the MCC Tournament), we're going to the NCAA playoffs. 
"And I guarantee you this--if we make it to the playoffs and we get the bid, we'll be the only team in the country that gets a bid that doesn't have 11 full scholarships. We have two and that's it. That's a tribute to the kids, not a tribute to Dennis Grace. It's a tribute to the kids and the hard work they have put into the program." 
Although the NCAA Tourna­ment voters have the final say over which teams receive bids to the tournament, Grace believes that by winning the MCC Tournament Notre Dame controls its own destiny. 
"I don't think there's any doubt about. it," asserted Grace. "It's all in our hands and I couldn't ask for a better situation (for the team). Whatever we do, it's totally up to us. It doesn't matter what happens in the West, the South, the Northeast, or the Mid­Atlantic. We control our own destiny." 
SIDEKICKS · The '88 season marks the first time Notre Dame has participated in the MCC Tournament. ..Last year Evansville won the inaugural tournament by defeating St. ·Louis 2-1 in the championship match...Notre Dame finished its first season in the MCC with a 4-0 league record ...The Irish have already beaten both Detroit and Loyola (4-1) in regular-season play. . .Top seed St. Louis received a bye in the first round of the tourn­ament. The Billikens will face the winner of the game between No. 4 Xavier and No. 5 Dayton Saturday. 
SOberi
Advice~, can~
alife ~, . .•.."'". 
--~ -­
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
Lalonde confident of victory 
Associated Press decision in April, 1987. In Sep­"He's responded really well 
tember, 1981, he knocked out (to preparing for the fight). He 
LAS VEGAS--Marvin Hagler Hearns in the 14th round after realizes this is his time in his­had Sugar Ray Leonard beat Hearns controlled the fight for tory." and "just totally blew it," .most of the early going. Donny Lalonde said. "Hagler just totally blew it," Lalonde, who is 31-2 with 26 
He also said Thomas Hearns Lalonde said. "It was there for knockouts, was asked about a also would have defeated the taking." number of media reports con­Leonard in 1981--if Hearns Asked if he thought the deci­tending that his record is hadn't lost his aggressiveness sion should have gone to padded by wins . over low­in the late rounds. Hagler, Lalonde replied, "At caliber opponents. 
Lalonde, who'll defend his the time, yeah. But after World Boxing Council light watching it again, no." "I think every time you go heavyweight title against Talking about Leonard's into the ring, you want to think Leonard Monday night, feels he knockout of Hearns, Lalonde you're fighting a worthy op­can accomplish what Hagler said, "I think Hearns had it, ponent," he said. "I know after and Hearns couldn't. but he quit. I'm not taking I had my first pro fight, 
anything away from Ray; he wanted to go out the next day 
Lalonde said Leonard's pulled it out both times." and fight for the title. courage carried him to victory Lalonde hopes his homework "But managers know they in both those fights, but added, for the test against Leonard at have to bring you along, have "I think this time, it's too much Caesars Palace--videotape He seemed very impressed by punching power for him." viewing of both himself and Leonard's determination. 
Lalonde, who'll also be bat­Leonard--pays off. "He's courageous.-Mentally 
tling Leonard for the newly he's (enabled) himself to do created WBC super mid­"He watches tapes, comes to much more than he should be dleweight (168-pound) title, has the gym the next day and ac­able to do physically," the spent many hours studying tually is better," said Tommy Canadian fighter said during a videotapes of Leonard's bouts. Gallagher, Lalonde's trainer. press conference Thursday. 
With Yoit In The Game,
We'll Bring This Crowd To Its Feet. 

Last year, N.otre Dame's Drive to Cure Paralysis was the second 
most successful tournament in the country, raising over $6,300 for 
the Buonaconti Fund. Our #1 fundraising team, Big Bill's Team, 
was only dollars short of a free trip to the Sugar Bowl. 
This year we want to blow this project out of the water and be the 
number one school in the nation. Help Non-Varsity Athletics set a 
precedent that hundreds of other schools will look up to. 
USF&G Sugar Bowl Flag Football DriveTo Cure Paralysis. 

NOVEMBER 11, 12 & 13 LOFTUS ALL-SPORTS CENTER 
DEADLINE FOR TEAM ENTRIES NOVEMBER 7 

SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-, 

Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
CAMPUS 
3:30 p.m. Seminar on "Fuel from Municipal Sludge," by James Johnson, Jr., Howard University, Cushing 121. 
11 :30 a.m. Dept. of Economics Public Policy Workshop with Maria Aguirre, graduate student in Economics, on the Ar­gentinian Austral plan, Room 131 Decio. 
4 p.m. ND Swimming Relays, men and woman, vs. Texas Christian, St. Mary's, Univ. of Illinois-Chicago, Xavier, North Central, Marquette, Butler. RoHs Aquatic Center. 
7:30 
p.m. HD Hockey v. Michigan-Dearborn. JACC. 

7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Babette's Feast," Annenberg Auditorium. 


8 p.m. African Studies Program Film, "Spear of the Nation," a history of the African National Congress produced by Thames Television, U.K. Center for Social Concerns. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Italian Sausage Hoagie Batter Fried Perch Breaded Cheese Sticks Meatloaf 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Jerks Saint Mary's 
Breaded Fried Fish Italian Lasagna Fettucini Carbonara Deli Bar 
page 23

The Observer 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:+;:.+;,;+=-! 12 Goes inside 13 Unfortunate 15 Very short 19 Sound loudly 
Berke Breathed 
• 
... 
48 One of the lotophagi 
49 Mulberry-bark cloth 
50 Atypical 
52 Major, in music 
53 CPA's task 
54 Large snake 
56 Edit films 
57 Guard 
58 Mixes a salad 
59 Pitting devices 
60 What marks fall for 
DOWN 
1 Morning assembly call 2 Of beekeeping 3 Frighten 4 Light slaps 5 Sault-Marie 6 Tips to one side 7 On the jet 
8 Pleased producer's placard 
9 Glaswegians' headgear 10 "I Get_._,.. 1951 song 11 Where Daugavpils is 

• 
22 Element in 36Aegis 44 Roofer's need nail-polish 
37 Large land 47 Right-handremover holdings page23 Passerine bird 39 Ceremonies 49 Okla. oil center 26 Fissile rock 
40 Uruguayan27 Drop flavor resort town 51 Cut of pork 
30 Recipe abbr. 
41 Makes 53 N.T. book 
32 Bring into the reparation open 
55 Pisa-to-Verona
420scar-, 
dir.
34 It gets the wurst memorable 35 Vagrancy pianist 56 Kin of aves. 

•
The Far Side Gary Larson 

ACROSS 
1 Makes a grating sound 6 Mild soap 13 Jazzy swinger 14 Sandpaper, for one 16 Emulate Corrigan 17 Small, enclosed place 18 Bartletts 19 Actress Arthur 20 Thrifty one 21 Money for Loren 22Warning 24 Letter opener 
25 Hebrew judge 26 Public disgrace 28 Chemical suffix 29 Spreads lavishly 31-Patos, 
Cypriot town 33 Taste or smell 34 Thin plates 38 Arafat's gp. 39 Harsh or severe 40 Baudelaire's 
"Les Fleurs du 
43 Vivify 45 Time-zone abbr. 46 Trip for Tacitus 

• Sports
page 24 Weekend Edition, November 4-5, 1988 
Irish can decide NCAA fate in weekend tourney 
By FRANK PASTOR Detroit match will then meet The MCC tournament ap­Sports Writer the winner of the game between peared to be coming at a good No. 2 Evansville and No. 7 time for Notre Dame, who won 
The national recognition the Loyola Saturday at noon. The impressively against Penn Notre Dame men's soccer tournament will conclude with State and 19th-ranked Boston team has long sought is finally the championship match 2 p.m. University last weekend in the within reach this weekend Sunday. Florida International­when the Irish enter the Mid­Gatorade Classic in Miami. But western Collegiate Conference "For all practical purposes, the Irish lost some of their mo­Tournament in St. Louis. A vic­our tournament starts this mentum in Wednesday's lack­tory in the tournament will vir­weekend going into St. Louis," luster 2-1 victory over tually assure the Irish their said Irish coach Dennis Grace. Wisconsin-Green Bay. first-ever NCAA Tournament "If we don't do well, we're not berth. going to be invited, and prob­Notre Dame (14-3-2) 
Third-seeded Notre Dame ably shouldn't get invited, to defeated Detroit earlier this takes on sixth-seeded Detroit in the NCAA Tournament. But if season in a tight 3-1 match at the first round of the MCC we do well, we're going to the Moose Krause Stadium. But Tournament Friday at 2 p.m. NCAA Tournament--no doubt the team cannot afford a let­
• 
The winner of the Notre Dame-about it." down similar to that against 
TCU bests swimmers in Irish season opener 
By KEVIN REISCH and Petrillo accounted for a Sports Writer win in the 400-yard free relay. In 3-meter diving competi­
The Notre Dame swimming tion, senior Adam Hirschfeld program hoped to kick off its topped the field with a total season with a big splash. In­score of 250.50 points. stead, it was their opponents As on the men's side, young who made all the waves. talent shined forth in the Irish 
Last night at Rolfs Aquatic women team's 151-92. Center, the Irish men's and wo­Freshman Katie Pamenter men's teams dropped their finished first two times, sweep­opener to a solid Texas Christ­ing the 200-yard freestyle in ian squad. Even in loss, 1:58.07 and the 200-yard back­
• 
however, Notre Dame dis­stroke in 2:16.12. Also, sopho­played the potential that could more Amy Tri was victorious make it very competitive this in the 200-yard individual med­year. ley and came in third behind 
"We expected--and we were Pamenter in the backstroke right--that TCU would be a race. little stronger and faster than "We're trying to learn what us," said Irish coach Tim the makeup of our team will Welsh. "But I thought we did be, how versatile we are, and very, very well tonight. We had where we need to improve," a good deal more positive than commented Coach Welsh. "It negative to build upon." helped to have a lot of new 
In fact, the men's squad did people emerge tonight. We show some positive signs in a were very pleased by the 135-108 defeat. Sophomore Paul strong showing of the fresh­Godfrey led the way with two men." first-place finishes, winning Texas Christian coach Rich­the 1000-yard freestyle race in ard Sybesma was equally im­
10:02.71 and the 500-yard frees­pressed by the overall Irish ef­tyle in 4:53.37. fort. "Notre Dame's team is a 
Another sophomore, Jim lot better than they were last Byrne, sped to victory in the year. We had to use everybody 200-yard backstroke. To round every place we could to win." out the scoring, the combina­tion of Penn, Thoman, Froman, see SWIM, page 20 
ND volleyball faces big test 
Loss could end Irish chances for first-ever NCAA bid 
By MOLLY MAHONEY The Irish, now 12-9 on the Michigan in their series his­Sports Writer year, will travel to Ypsilanti, tory, winning last year in three Mich., tonight to take on the games, 15-3, 15-3 and 15-6, but 
· It's crunch time for the Notre Hurons, who are paced by 6-2 Wolverine setter Marie Ann Dame women's volleyball middle blocker Roxanne Davidson will be back to lead team. Munch and setter Sherry An­the offense attack against the 
Two regular-season games derson. Irish. 
and three tournaments are all The 6-1 Munch led the Mid­"They're both scrappythat stand between the Irish American Conference with a teams that can get hot," said and the possibility of post­.350 hitting percentage last Lambert. ·"They've beaten season play. season and Anderson was voted some teams they had no busi­Notre Dame will try to main­MAC Freshman of the Year ness beating, so I worry about 
tain momentum from their vic­last year. them." 
tory last weekend over LSU Eastern Michigan is 11-7 The Irish will try to com­and record crucial wins over overall and 4-2 in the MAC pensate for the hole left at the Eastern Michigan tonight on going into this week, but the outside hitter position after the road and Michigan tomor­Irish hold a 3-0 advantage over sophomore Colleen Wagner row in the JACC. the Hurons in the series his­was sidelined for the rest of the "Every match from here on tory, beating them last year in season due to a knee injury and out is extremely important to five games, 15-13,7-15, 15-13, 14-junior Kathy Cunningham r our chances of getting a 16 and 15-4. pulled a muscle by her ribcage (NCAA) bid," said Irish head Saturday night, the Irish will forcing her to sit out at least 
coach Art Lambert. "We can't face a 10-15 Michigan squad two more games.afford to lose to an unranked that has lost all 11 of its Big Sophomore Tracey Shelton, 
team at this point in the 
Ten matches so far this season. 
SPIKE, 18
season." Notre Dame has split with see page 
Green Bay when it takes the field against the Titans Friday. 
"They're an excellent team," said Grace. "We have to be very much prepared to play them and to do very well against them. We beat them 3­1, but you can throw all that out the window starting at 2 
p.m. Friday. I don't believe in letdowns, and I don't believe in burnouts. But we were in a very good position to lose (against Green Bay), and that infuriates Evansville, Indiana and Akron. Loyola holds down the seventh spot in the poll, but Grace looks for them to turn a few heads at the MCC Tournament. 
me."  
The  Irish  are  currently  
ranked  fourth  in  the  Great  
Lakes  Region,  trailing  


"I've got a feeling Evansville might just be looking past Loyola," predicted Grace. "If I had my druthers, I'd rather play anyone except Loyola in this tournament before, obvi­ously, Evansville and St. Louis. They have a lot of potential to do well and may do some damage in the tournament." 
The MCC Tournament 
see IRISH, page 22 


Digger campaigning for basketball votes 
Digger Phelps first met and became friends with Vice President George Bush 14 years ago, and this past week the two were campaigning at Notre Dame. 
Bush, of course, is campaigning for the United States presidency against Michael Dukakis. He delivered a speech at Notre Dame this past Tuesday, a week before 
·Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 
Election Day. 

But Phelps is on a campaign of a different sort--his an­nual tour of the dormitories to try to get students' minds on the upcoming basketball season. The main difference between the campaign of the Notre Dame basketball coach and those of the presidential candidates is that Phelps has a solid platform behind him. 
But it's a campaign nonetheless, and Phelps has a rather large obstacle to overcome if this basketball season goes anything like last year's: student complacency. 
"There were times when the students were cheering for see DIGGER, page 21 






