-----~-~~­


Bring your umbrella?
/ACCENT: Keaton in 'sober' role 
Partly cloudy, with a chance 
of rain tonight. Cooler tomor­
row, in the 70s, and more rain

IVIEWPOINT: Liberalism inundates news possible. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 3 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

24-hour lounge to open Sept. 6 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN been discussed," according to News I<~ditor Paese. The 24-hour Oak Room will 
Students won't have long to be run on a trial basis for wait for new social space on anywhere from 90 days to a se­campus --plans call for a 24-mester, said Paese. "I per­hour lounge in the Oak Room sonally think they'll make a 
Cafeteria starting Sept. 6, ac­fair amount of money," Paese cording to Tom Doyle, student added. body president. "Student use will determine 
"It's been something we've the longevity of the 24-hour been working on all summer. lounge," Paese said. "It's a It's something the students cooperative effort. If students really wanted," Doyle said. support it, it won't cost anyone 
"This will be seven days a a thing." week, 24 hours a day as far as I know," said Mike Paese, stu­Doyle and Paese originally dent body vice president. planned to have 24-hour space 
Doyle said the Oak Room opened in the LaFortune Stu­would "offer a limited menu, dent Center. "LaFortune didn't with Cokes, hamburgers, fries, work out," said Paese, coffee --stuff we can sell late "because it would have been at night." Doyle also said that difficult to keep one area open the menu had not been without affecting the whole finalized. building." 
Director of Food Services "Student Activities said the William Hickey was in­cost of securing the building strumental in the 24-hour would be about $10,000," said lounge plans, said Doyle. "We Paese. "Because of that, and can't thank Mr. Hickey because there would have been enough," he said. "We went to no food available, and no him and he said 'if that's what access to vending machines, the students want, that's what we thought it might be better we'll do.'" to talk to University Food Ser­
"It's a definite sacrifice for vices." them <University Food Ser­vices) to help the student It was Hickey's idea to use body," added Paese. the Oak Room as 24-hour space, 
Student government will added Paese. cover the cost of any damages "Our task now is to let stu­to the Oak Room, said Paese. dents know that this is around Any other payments for the use ... that everyone knows the of the Oak Room "have not service is there," said Paese. 

AP Photo

Polish strikers 
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa addresses strikers Tuesday at the Lenin shipyard In Gdansk. Story at right. 

By MARK MCLAUGHLIN contact with Notre Dame stu­Hurley will also oversee the News Editor dents in the past. "I worked in enforcement of campus speed my early days in the northeast limits. Security is empowered 
Former South Bend Chief of area of South Bend and I had to issue citations "on any road­Police Charles Hurley was contact with Notre Dame stu­way adjacent to campus" or on named assistant director for dents then," said Hurley. University property, Hurley police and security services "Notre Dame really attracts said. earlier this summer. good people, and I'm looking "The job's going well," he 
His new job will include over­forward to all that that brings." said. "I've been around the seeing the investigative and pa­and staff inquiries," said Hur­University all my life, and the trol functions of Notre Dame ley. "They'll alternate some (South Bend) police depart­Security, said Hurley. between walking beats, car ment was involved in some 
"Our investigators are there patrols, and working the to follow up on student, faculty, gtttes." see HURLEY, page 3 
Police repress striking port workers, others join protest 
Associated Press was getting the upper hand and was watching the Polish strike 
replied: "there is more and situation with concern, but the 
GDANSK, Poland--Police more news about strikes ended, Kremlin has not made an offi­converged on strikebound coal but on the other hand there are cial statement. mines and a port, activists said new centers of workers' con­In Hungary, where the Soviet Thursday, after more workers flicts still appearing." army crushed an uprising in joined stoppages and Solidarity Solidarity founder Lech 1956, more than 300 miners denounced official repression W alesa declared to young struck Wednesday against of the protests. 
bonus cuts and a new income 
The government and tax. It was the first known workers are struggling for the worker protest of stringent eco­initiative in the biggest labor nomic policies introduced by upheaval since Gen. Wojciech Karoly Grosz, who became Jaruzelski imposed martial law Communist Party chief in May. in December 1981 to crush and then outlaw Solidarity, the first In northwest Poland, helicop­independent labor union in the ters circled over the Soviet bloc. strikebound Szczecin port 
Strikers demand higher pay, early Thursday, and police better working conditions and massed outside its barricaded that Solidarity be made legal gate, said Solidarity spokes­again. man Piotr Niemczyk. 
"We condemn and strongly strikers: "it is you, the young Police invaded a bus depot in protest these acts," Tadeusz people, who will renew Szczecin early Wednesday, and Mazowiecki, a senior Solidarity and renew the 150 strikers who had been holed Solidarity adviser, said Wed­country.'' up there for a week yielded nesday of police strike­Strikes began Aug. 16 and quietly. A strike at the Mieszko breaking actions. have spread to more than 20 coal mine in W albrzych ended 
Government spokesman sites. Tuesday night in similar fas­Jerzy Urban was asked by tele­A soviet spokesman said hion when police broke down phone whether the government Wednesday his government the barricaded gate. 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, August 25, 1988 

IN BRIEF _ ! 
Over the summer ... the Board of Trustees added two new members: John Burgee, architect and member of the Advisory Council for the College of Engineering; and federal judge Ann Williams, seated on the U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois. The Board also established a standing Committee on Social Values and Responsibilities "entrusted with reviewing those matters of University policy, priority, and programming not normally covered by other committees of the Board.e"-The Observer 
Also over the summer ... Father Edward Malloy was named a full professor of theology, one of several faculty members promoted at the annual President's Dinner. Malloy was previously an associate professor. Congratulations, Monic -The Observer 
The Great American Rubber Duck Race, sponsored by Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana, is soliciting nominations for the Venue Selection, Logistics, and Certification Committees for the world class amateur event scheduled for April, 1989. According to Brad Senden, event coordinator, "Lots of quacks will be made about this event. But the need to supply food to those in need is quite serious. By holding a statewide event next April we should be able to raise something in the neighborhood of $100,000 for the food bank and give 40,000 contestants a quack at victory." 
-The Observer 
Jack Nicholson was named best actor for "Witches of Eastwick" and Jessica Tandy won best actress for "Bat­teries Not Included" at Tuesday night's 15th annual Saturn Awards presentation. The best supporting actor honor went to Richard Dawson for "The Running Man," and the late Ann Ramsey was cited as best supporting actress for "Throw Momma From the Train." "Robocop," last sum­mer's box-office hit starring Peter Weller and Nancy Al­len, won five Saturns, including best science fiction film. 
-Associated Press 
''IfAmericans cannot reclaim their communities from drugs, "then we're a bunch of wimps," New York Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield said Wednesday at a fund-raising meeting of his anti-drug foundation. Winfield ~aid the job required concerted effort in research, educa­tion, law enforcement and rehabilitation. Young people need positive alternatives and "just saying no is not enough," said Winfield. "Complex problems require com­plex solutions." -Associated Press 
The Class of '92 is gathering in college classrooms across Indiana this week. Doors opened Monday at Purdue and Vincennes universities and at Indiana University­Purdue University at Indianapolis. Classes begin this com­ing Monday at Southern Indiana, Ball State, Indiana State and Indiana universities. Officials at the universities re­ported the freshman class at Purdue should total about 7,000, about 2,000 freshmen at Vincennes and about 5,800 at IU in Bloomington. Ruth Vedvik, director of admissions at Ball State, expects a freshman class of about 4,000. "We had to close freshman applications last April 1, trying to hold the number to about 3,850 in a student body of nearly 18,000," she said.-Associated Press 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

Design Editor ........... Annette Rowland Sports Copy Editor .............. Pete Gegen Design Assistant .. .. .. .. Bernadette Shilts Accent Copy Editor ...... Robyn Simmons Typesetters .. .. .. .. . . . .. Mark Ridgeway Accent Layout ...................... Moira Fox . . .. .. ... .. . . .. ............ Andy Schlidt Typist . .. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... Will Zamer News Editor ..................... Michelle Dall ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler Copy Editor ................. Matt Gallagher Photographer ............... Susy Hernandez 
Tile OblenH (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblencr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Oblencr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
TM OblenH is a member of Tile Auodllted Pn!SI. All reproduction rights arc rCSHVed. 

Viewers take note: MTV is the one to watch 
I want my MTV. 
I watched it every day for three months this summer. Now I am going through withdrawal. I've tried putting on my W alkman and watching television, but it just isn't the same. 
I don't know exactly what happened this sum­mer, but I feel as though I've regressed about six years, to the age and mentality of the high school sophomore I was when MTV first went on the air and I was completely mesmerized for months by it. 
To wake up for work each day this summer, I made a cup of coffee and sat in front of the TV for a few videos, until I was ready to face the day. 
During my lunch break, I just about made it home in time to watch "Remote Control," the MTV game show for college intellectuals who were once (are still?) couch potatoes. 
When my sense of humor was feeling warped, I flipped the channels to MTV to catch an episode of "Monty Python's Flying Circus." 
I gave up watching the regular station news because the news is always so depressing. But, luckily, MTV has its own Music News, so at least I could keep updated on the world of music, if not the world of reality. 

Kendra MorriII 
Assistant News Editor 

<JilQ 
without. 


And of course, when I was in the mood for 

totally mindless and inconsequential mush, I 1--------.....IL--------­
just tuned in to MTV to watcMisten to the 10 or 11 videos that are played continuously every hour. 
I want my MTV. 
I may be the only non-junior high school per­son who is so addicted to MTV, but I can't un­derstand why. MTV has something for every­one, programming to appeal to almost every taste. 
For the masses of people who appear to like Top 40, MTV is a pop heaven. Once on the "cut­ting edge" of the music scene, MTV is now a televised version of the American Top 40. It even has a Top 20 Video Countdown. 
For the heavy metal types, there's the "Headbanger Ball" on Friday nights from mid­night until 3 a.m.--three hours of pure, unadul­terated heavy metal. 
For those into progressive music, "120 Minutes" (my personal favorite) plays altern­ative music videos every Sunday from midnight to 2 a.m. This show also plays alot of the old, original MTV videos, which were progressive at the time. 
For the true rock 'n roll afficionados, "Closet Classics" plays some of the best of the classic rock videos, usually clips from old concerts, every day at 12 a.m. 
And MTV is oh-so-much more than just music. "Remote Control" is a game show tar­geted directly to college-aged contestants, like a "Jeopardy" with questions that non-geniuses can answer if they watched 12 hours of TV per day when they were young. And Ken Ober, the host, is so much more entertaining than Alex Trebek (One of my goals is to be a contestant on "Remote Control" before I graduate). 

Siskel and Ebert have some competition now, too. "The Big Picture" host Chris Connelly reviews the latest movies each week and inter­views whoever happens to be the most popular actor/actress of the week. 
For anyone into strange but hilarious British humor, "Monty Python's Flying Circus" is on every night at 7:30 Eastern time (right after "Remote Control" --what a double feature!). 
And just like ABC News Briefs, MTV's Music News has flashes throughout the day, as well as a half-hour newscast on Saturdays, to keep viewers informed about what's going on in music. The journalism isn't quite as hard­hitting as that of the three major networks, but the news is definitely more upbeat. 
Perhaps the best thing about MTV is that if you leave the television for any period of time, within an hour the videos will be repeated so you won't miss anything substantial. 
I know the same videos are played over and over again, but it's so exciting to wait for that one video that hasn't been played in a few years, since Martha Quinn and Alan Hunter left. Or for the video that has just been released and hasn't been overplayed yet. 
OK. So MTV is completely mindless. But there are some times when there is no need to think and mindlessness feels pretty good. 
I want my MTV. 


Thursday, August 25, 1988 The Observer 

................................................................ 
Happy Blrthd•y Today 1s Laura S.'a birthday. Call her up and w1sh her a happy one. By the way Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
on pool tables tonight.

11 II 
Aug 25 Thurs Aug 26 Fri 

Aug 27 Sat Aug 28 Sun 
-bring blankets (rain location Knott Hall) 
*Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 1 00 Master Artists 
*Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $12! 
*Wide Variety of photographs ..... beautiful landscapes to high tech., ETC. 
*This is Your Last Opportunity to DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 


Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
Hot Tub Get-Together at Senior Alumni Club 7-8:30 PM 
Elk's Lodge Gathering 
Tunes, Friends, Refreshments 8PM-1 AM Buy tix at Senior Class Office Wed, Thurs, & Fri, Limited Tickets. Buses leave main circle at 8PM and will run every 1/2 hour. (directions can be pickfd up in the office.) 
Meet at New Buffalo Beach ( not the Dunes)-see signs for directions 
Mass at Grotto wI Fr. Levie lie 7 PM 

Freshmen urged to avoid alcohol 
By REGIS COCCIA News Editor 

The problem of alcohol abuse came across loud and clear to about 1,100 freshmen during an Alcohol Awareness Program on Monday, said Emil Hofman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies. 
Co-sponsored by Freshman Year and the Office of Student Affairs, the 55-minute program held in Washington Hall was shown three times to accom­modate attending freshmen. 
"Most behavioral problems among college students are those that stem from alcohol abuse," said Hofman, the pro­gram's master of ceremonies. 
"Our first attempt to address the problem was to talk to the freshmen," he said, adding that a similar, but less effective program was held last year. 
"Unfortunately, many of the people who would have benefit­ted did not show up," Hofman said. "Hopefully it deters people from getting involved (in abusing alcohol)." 
Speakers included Student Body Vice President Mike Paese, senior Kristen Williams and Kevin Hurley, who was in­jured in a drunk-driving acci­dent in 1985 and currently en­rolled as a freshman. 
Grace Hall Rector Father Gerald Lardner, Ann Firth, 
Hurley 
continued from page 1 

things like football, the Special Olympics, and the presidential visits." 
Hurley said he's still learning the ropes, though. "For exam­ple, registration this fall was a big event that I never realized went on at Notre Dame." 
.·£@:& 
R • I· P •BEERNUTS• 

, Now that Beernuts is · 
' no longer with us, The Observer is looking for a campus cartoonist. The position is paid, and the cartoonist is expected to work at least three days a week. Those inter­ested should submit a small portfolio their work to Chris Donnelly or Marga Bruns by Au­gust 31 . 
.; 

Happy 21st Birthday to Woodward 
Beware the eternal struggle. Hope no one shrouds or dispatches you this year. Have a great senior year! 
Love, Mom and Dad, Andy, Ned and Anne 
director of residence life, and Sally Coleman of the Univer­sity Counseling Center, also spoke during the program. 
In his speech, Paese chal­lenged the freshmen to avoid 
abusing alcohol. "He was very 
good. Dr. Firth stated the exact 
alcohol policy. She really gave 
it to them straight," Hofman 
said. 
Coleman told freshmen of 
services offered by the Univer­
sity Counseling Center for stu­
dents with alcohol problems, 
Hofman said. 
Hurley related his own 
struggle as a victim of drunk 
driving. "He pleaded with class 
not to abuse alcohol and not to 
drive drunk," Hofman said. 
"It was a good program and I think the freshmen were im­pressed by it," he said. "Not many walked out (Monday) and those that did did so be­cause they had particular ap­pointments. I think the stu­dents were spellbound." 
The Alcohol Awareness Pro­gram was planned as part of Freshman Orientation and will very likely be continued in the future, Hofman said. "The im­mediate thing is to get all of the freshmen to go," he said. 
"I think the point was made by everbody that alcohol has a place in social life," said Hof­man, "but we must consider what place that is." 
"I think it will take a year to go through the cycle," he added. "Because the Univer­sity is such an attractive place, every year there's something new going on." 
Hurley also said he has had contact with Notre Dame stu­dents in the past. "I worked in my early days in the northeast area of South Bend and I had contact with Notre Dame stu­dents then," said Hurley. 
"Notre Dame really attracts good people, and I'm looking forward to all that that brings." 
Think of your best friend. Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't drive drunk. 
Reader's Dlga8t 

<;..pag;;;a.;e;........;.4_______________________.......;.T..;.;h~e...;:O:;.;b:;.;;se;.;:;.;...rv;..;:e;.;..r__________________Thursday, August 25, 1988 
Quayle starts solo campaign, meets Bentsen 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS--Republican vice 
presidential nominee Dan 
Quayle, on his first solo na­
tional campaign trip, delivered 
an impassioned defense Wed­
nesday of his National Guard 

service, saying "I'm not 
looking for any medals" but "I 
served loyally." 
"Nearly 20 years ago, I had 
no reason to be ashamed of my 

service. And you know what, 
I'm sure as hell not ashamed 

of it now!" Quayle said in 
prepared remarks to a confer­

ence of present and former en­
listed National Guardsmen. 
Quayle said he "wasn't looking for favors" when he en­tered the Guard in 1969 and reiterated that "no rules were broken" and no effort had been made to "influence the process" of his admission during the height of the Viet­nam War. 
"I'm not looking for any medals. And I'm not asking for a pat on the back. But let me say this: I served. I served loyally, and I served to the best of my ability," Quayle said. 
The Indiana senator began his first solo campaign swing seeking to shift attention from the controversy that has stalked his candidacy and focus instead on his message of peace, freedom and jobs. 
Almost at the very start, he had a good-natured airport encounter with his Democratic counterpart, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, who had just warned Southern state legisla­tors not to "risk youthful in­discretion" in someone like Quayle who might someday as­cend to the presidency. 
Quayle's evening speech to the conference of National Guardsmen in St. Louis was evidently intended as the Senator's answers to his crit-

Sen. Dan Quayle 

ics. He has tended to view ques­tions about his military record as a slur on his patriotism. 
In the speech, he criticized Democratic presidential nominee Michael Dukakis for an "anti-defense attitude." 
"One of the worst false im­pressions Michael Dukakis has put forward is the idea that he stands for a strong national defense," Quayle said. "Maybe he sincerely believes that. But he stands for the opposite, and that position has been clouded over by the distractions of the last few days." 
During the day, Quayle kept out of range of reporters and sought to concentrate on cam­paign issues and the prospec­tive virtues of a George Bush presidency. An aide said Quayle wanted to focus on "things we want to talk about." 
Quayle ignored reporters' shouted questions seeking a response to Bentsen's remarks. Bentsen had tried to exploit Quayle's earlier com­ment that his "youthful in­discretion" was to blame for his vote against elevating the Veterans Administration to a Cabinet-level department. 
Join The Observer 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
,
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: •WiJREHOUSE sAtE• 
GALLAGHER'S CARPETS 
Ouality carpet at low iow ~ces. Many styles and cOlors to choose 
from. RerMallts, rol ends and ful rols. Prices start at'4.00 per 
yd. to '10.00. Save money, ~top and check OIK warehouse out 
before Y.OU buy. 
Assistant News Editor 
683·8800 
Located at 2428 U.S. 31 Niles, Mi. 
For further Information contact 

Open Mon. tllru lat. 9 til S#
Mark Mclaughlin or Regis Coccia 

Iring your student I. D. for IS OFF total pure/lase1
at The Observer (239-5303) 


The TI Business Edge Unique Power Touch display with touch-sensitive panels: two fOr financial' two fOr 
....
Get the "Edge" in your That's why you need the new 11 finance and statistics Business Edge calculator. It features a unique Power Touch™
courses with TI's new 
display panel with five display
Business Edge~ 
screens that are preprogrammed to 
Ifyou're planning a career in solve 20 ofthe most essential 
business, the first order of business financial and statistical problems. 
is to get the right tool for the job Just touch the screen to enter and 
you have right now-school. store information. 
!H0006 

•
usmess. 
...........--~:==...=..=.:;, 


statistics. Twenty pre­programmed functions in all. 



Solves for such financial results as present and future values, an­nuities, amortization, and interest conversions. Performs one and two-variable statistics. 
Want to get an edge in business? Get an edge in school first, with help from the 11 Business Edge. 
TEXAS~ 

INSTRUMENlS 
'"TmJemark of Texas lmtruments lnwrr<>mted ©1988 Tl. 

WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
'Il1c \\\1rd.'> \\'l' ilH· ~· 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Typists 
For further information contact On the firing line 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez
Jim Winkler 

Expressions of joy light these students' faces as they rituals: spending large quantities of money for books
at The Observer (239-5303) 

participate in one of their favorite back-to-school they probably will only read once (if at all). 
~~~~~~~~~G~RA~N~TJ~ON~E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bush leads 

Dukakis in 

state 
poll 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Vice Pres­ident George Bush surged ahead in Indiana following the Republican National Conven­tion and his choice of Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana as his run­ning mate, according to The In­dianapolis Star Poll released Wednesday. 
Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, held a 17­percentage-point lead over Massachusetts Gov. Michael 
MIT. Structural Engineering. University of Virginia, Fi-Uc Santa Cruz, Marine Bioi-University of Michigan, MBA Dukakis in a poll of registered voters. Analyzing and designing nance. Studies fluctuating ogy. Studies behavior of blue candidate. Assisted on pric-Also, four out of five voters polled said that questions about 
bridges. Developed working stock and money market whales and effect of environ-ing projects for GM. The HP­
Quayle's military record will model of a double spandrel arch trends. Assisted head trader ment on distribution of mar-17Bofferseasyalgebraicentry. not affect how they vote in No­vember.
bridge. The HP-28S helps him in Yen at Chicago Mercantile ine mammals. The new, easy Plus time value of money, cash 
The poll was conducted by analyze structural stress and Exchange. The HP-12C with to use HP-22S has a built-in flows and linear regression to the Gordon Black Corp. on Aug. 
21-22 for The Star. It has a mar­
geometry. It's the only calcu-RPN lets him analyze prices, equation library with solver, analyzebudgetsandforecasts. gin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. Among tM other results 
(which include voters who in­tend to vote for a candidate as
~::ctha~~::,:i~"~:::::-NewAchievers in :~~;:~":"":~:~:;:;:: 
It features variable. 
well as those who are leaning toward a candidate) are:
powerful Hewlett-
HeavyMetal,Swing,Blues 

• Of the 800 voters polled statewide, 52 percent said they 
matrix math and graphiCS cap-Packard's calculators are built 
and Motown 

support Bush; Dukakis was
abilities. And HP Solve lets him • for your success Look for them favored by 35 percent. 
solve custom formulas without ratios, net present value and giving her access to the most at your campus bookstore. Or • Bush leads Dukakis in every region of the state, holding his 
programming. With more than internal rate of return. He can commonly used scientific calll-800-752-0900, Ext. 658E, biggest margin, 61 percent to 25 percent, in the eight-county 
1500 functions, 32K RAM and even create his own custom equations Statistics with for your nearest dealer. 
metropolitan Indianapolis both RPN and algebraic entry, programs. The HP-12C is the linear regression And alge-We never stop asking "What if ... area. 
• Of the Democrats polled who the HP-28S is the ultimate sci-established standard in fi-braic entry. The ideal student said they voted for President
(h~ HEWLETT 

Reagan in the past, Dukakis
entific calculator. nancial calculators. science calculator. PACKARD 

leads 61 percent to 28 percent. 
• Bush did equally well with both sexes. He was favored by about half of the men and wo­men who were polled. 
Those polled also dis­regarded the flap over whether Quayle used family connec­tions to get into the Indiana Na­tional Guard in 1969 and avoid service in the Vietnam War. 
That year, the former Guard commander, Wendell Phillippi, was managing editor of The In­dianapolis News and Quayle's grandfather, Eugene Pulliam, owned the newspaper. 
Phillippi has said he made a call recommending Quayle. It has since been reported that 
HP-28S SCIENTIFIC HP-12C FINANCIAL HP-22S SCIENTIFIC HP-17B BUSINESS there already were vacanciesCALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR 
in the Guard when Quayle en-


~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ listed in May 1969· 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, August 25, '1988 

~­

Liberalism taints election coverage 
Another election year is upon us. We've watched the Democrats whistle "Dixie" in Atlanta and the Republicans be-bop on Bourbon Street; and, despite the inevitable complaints sure to come concerning the excessive length of the campaign and!or the avoidance of is­sues by the candidates, we're all going to be interested in whether Mr. Dukakis or Mr. Bush emerges as the winner come November 8. But herein lies the problem: following the campaign be­tween now and Election Day. For how do most of us do that? By reading and watching the major media of this country--ABC, CBS, NBC, the New York Times, Washington Post, Time, or Newsweek, to name a few. And what is the trouble with that? It is, simply, that a clear majority of those writing and reporting the news are a bunch of ideologically committed liberals who, knowingly or not, incorporate a liberal bias into their news coverage. 
Kevin Smant 
on politics 
Does that last statement scare you off? It shouldn't, for the evidence to support it exists in abundance. Estab­lishing that major media elites are in fact mainly liberals is easy. The best (though not the only) study was done by S. Robert Lichter of George Wash­ington University and Stanley Rothman of Smith College. They interviewed 240 
individuals, mostly from the major 
media outlets mentioned above. Fifty­
four percent described themselves as 
left of center, and 19 percent right of 
center. And how have they voted, say 
for President from 1964 to 1976? Never 
less than 80 percent voted Democratic: 94 percent for Johnson in 1964, 87 per­cent for Humphrey in 1968, 81 percent for McGovern in 1972, and 81 percent for Carter in 1976. 
Few people now dispute the glaring liberalism of most members of the media. What media defenders argue, however, is that it does not matter; that the news is still presented objectively, and that if anything newsmen portray all political figures in a somewhat nega­tive light (owing to the press's acquired cynicism). On the surface, this seems plausible. But certainly facts suggest otherwise. One of the earliest investiga­tions was by Edith Efron, who ex­amined network news coverage of the 1968 presidential campaign. She analyzed actual numbers of words the networks presented both "for" and "against" certain key issues during the campaign (such as U.S. policy on the Vietnam War) and she translated this into the number of words for and against the presidential candidates. The results? Let us take one network as an example. CBS gave Humphrey (the Democrat) 2388 positive words, against 2083 negative. It gave Richard Nixon 320 positive words, and 5300 

Doonesbury 
negative (perhaps this is why Efron titled her book "The News Twisters"). How can this be interpreted, except as an example of media bias against the perceived "conservative" candidate? 
Wait, it gets better. In 1984 George Washington University media analysts Michael Robinson and Maura Clancey undertook another comprehensive study of network news reportage of the 1984 campaign. Most significant in their findings was their analysis of the press "spin" or ideological tilt put on a story. How can one determine spin? Well, in October 1984 President Reagan took a train trip through western Ohio. This is "hard" news. But when Dan Rather labeled the ride "a photo opportunity train trip, chock full of symbolism and trading on Harry Truman's old turf," this is spin. 
So, Robinson and Clancey established specific rules and came up with a good pres&bad press total for all four 1984 presidential candidates. The results should not be surprising. President Reagan got 730 seconds of good press, 7230 of bad; Walter Mondale, by con­trast, received 1330 seconds of positive spin versus 1050 of negative; Geraldine Ferraro got 640 good, 400 bad; and George Bush? He got 0 seconds positive--nothing--and 1510 seconds of negative press. So President Reagan received ten times more negative coverage than positive, and George Bush no positive press at all. Can this be an accident? Come on. 
Garry Trudeau 
I THOUGI-fT OK4Y, IT'5 TH& ITUIA5 A !£T'5 CAPITAL Rff3TAURANT. OF AU5-15N'T IT A 
7RAUA I CHIN8'38 
. 1<&5TAU­RANT<' 
Editoral Board 

So what should be done? Press freedom in this country is sacred, and it should be. As much as I dislike what Sam Donaldson or Bruce Morton say, I would defend their right to say it. No, the initiative has to come from us, the· viewers. Just as we must examine po­litical candidates critically, so we must also watch the evening news critically. Something is not true just because Dan Rather says it is: one need not accept that a "crisis" exists just because ABC does a piece on the "farm crisis," the "AIDS crisis," the "drug crisis," etc. It is a wonder we can sleep at night with all these crises swirling around us. We must sample a wide variety of media outlets, not just television. To 
put it simply,  we  must make up  our  
own minds.  
The distinctions  are subtle. No  one  

argues that the heads of ABC, CBS, and NBC News meet every morning and discuss how to "get" Republicans. Nor, thankfully, is the media so persuasive as many of its liberal members millht like: Ronald Reagan, demonstrably no media darling, has still won 44 and 49 states in the last two presidential elec­tions. But the liberal bias exists. The real question is why, and for how much longer, will members of the media deny it. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in the history department and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Quote of the Day 

"To  achieve  all  that  is  
possible  we  must  attempt  
the  impossible-to  be  as  
much  as  we  can  be,  we  

must dream of being more." Rawn 
Operations Board 
NO, MISS NOUR!. KORbA 15 NOT 8WU18&N MARS 
PW7V, NOT&V&N TH8N? I ao5e.
ANI? URANU5... 
ALJAJAY5 GliT 
TH05& 6uY5 \ MIX8f)UP. 
\ 
\ 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily refleci the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
YOU f)(JMMY! 
I<DR&A'5 
NOT&V&N 
A PLANI3T! 
\ 

Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy  Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider  
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly  Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen  •  
News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia  Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt  
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin  Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts  
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter  Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway  
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen  Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman  
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy  Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns  
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele  

Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 

Founded November 3,1966 
Accent


page 7 Thursday, August 25, 1988 
Comic turns serious 
KeatO~d:,~.B~~r~fu~y~~"~."g£.~d•f~~~~,~!"~"9
BETH HEALY ~~~h-paymg JOb m ~ pre~-hoi addict. He is awakened by coke, only to find that she has changes of withdrawal. He 
user and everything that he 
comes in touch with. Worst ofMovies 
all, we see over and over that cocaine is not recreational -it 
L--------...L...--=:::;:__j kills. 
hgwus real estate firm m a phone call from a business
accent editor 
P.hil~del~hia and ,liv_es with ass.ociate and snorts coke hts .g1rlfnend. He s Just an while on the phone. He asks ordn~ary gl:lY· But he's ?ne Daryl where "the money," all

I
n the majority of this film, who Is add•.cted to cocame. $92,000 of it, has gone from 
Michael Keaton is anything The opemng scene shows . the escrow account. This is but "Clean and Sober." He's Daryl Poynter, pla.yed by M1-only the beginning of hisin control of lots of money chael Keaton, wakmg to an-problems. Then he shakes his 

Rock-and-Roll heaven found 
Hi-Fi Stereo Shop, nostalgia James Dean fans constitute a 
Associated Press 
jumps out and grabs the buyer. lot of Broyles' business, espe­
Collectible records from the cially around Fairmount 

FAIRMOUNT, Ind.--A quick 1950s, .-~osters, calendars and T­Museum Days in September. 
glance through Leo C. and shirts of Fairmount native Five hundred to 600 fans from 
Helen Broyles' record shop can Dean and photographs of Pres­as far away as Japan, Canada, 
be a little overwhelming. ley are all for sale. West Germany, Australia and 
The sound of Hoagy Carmic­''A lot of people come in to England have signed a James 
hael rings in customers' ears. just look at the walls," said Dean Fan Log that was started 
Autographed photos of Don Ho, Helen Broyles, manager of the in August 1981. 
Dinah Shore, T.G. Shepherd, shop. "Some of them don't pur­Broyles has two of the three 
The Beach Boys, The Reflec­chase anything. They are just James Dean classics, the 
tions, Skeeter Davis, Roger curious at all of the decora­themes from "East of Eden" 
Miller, Loretta Lynn and tions." and "Giant," on display only. 
Rosemary Clooney and a dis­Although Hi-Fi specializes in She still hopes to obtain "Rebel 
play of 45-rpm records in bright "oldies," the store sells anyth­Without a Cause." 
yellows, reds and blues line the ing from classical to disco, jazz Broyles said the people who 
store's walls. to country, contemporary to visit her shop make the job 
Posters of Elvis Presley, rock. worthwhile. A lady from 
James Dean, Smokey Robin­"Every time an old record Chicago had an inflatable Paul 
son, John Cougar Mellencamp leaves the store, I feel like I'm McCartney doll at home and 
and Mick Jagger and such losing an old friend," Broyles sent it free to Broyles. 
novelty items as Mickey Mouse said. "Otherwise, there are some 
figures and inflatable Beatles Hi-Fi sells records, tapes, days where I would like to stay 
dolls help to cover almost every cassettes and a few compact at home," she said. "I would 
musical era. disks besides James Dean hate to give it up. I like the 
After a search through the memorabilia. people and the music." 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

had a heart attack in the middle of the night. 

After the police comb his apartment for drugs and find nothing, he is requested not to leave the area, just in case the girl never wakes up. Despite this, Daryl runs to the nearest airport where his credit cards are rejected and he has to stay in town anyway. 
In desperation, he tries one last place for money since his supplier has cut him off. He calls his parents and asks them to give him $30,000 by either taking out a second mortgage on their home, or giving him an advance from their wills. They hang up on him. We learn that he has lost all of the $92,000 in the stock market. 
Between swigs of gin, snorts of cocaine and a never­ending chain of cigarettes, Daryl hears a commercial on the radio describing a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center that is completely con­fidential. He checks in to the drug rehab center denying that he has any problem with drugs, but views it as a safe place to hide from the police and his boss, who now suspects that Daryl has em­bezzled the $92,000. 
As Daryl's body cleanses itself of the cocaine and alco­hol, we see him go through 
SARAH VOIGT 
assistant accent editor 
W
hen painful memories are repressed they often emerge later to haunt the present. Tom Wingo realizes this truth in Pat Conroy's compelling novel, "The Prince of Tides." 
The story begins when Tom Wingo learns that his twin sister Savannah has just at­tempted suicide. Tom imme­diately flies to New York where he works closely with her psychiatrist. Together they attempt to understand why Savannah, a talented young poet, wants to slit her wrists. 
Tom unravels the history of his violent, complicated fam­ily relationships in a series of flashbacks. The novel alter­nates between chapters about the present and the past. The reader gains more and more insight into Savannah's pres­ent problems as the fascinat­ing web of deceit and denial surrounding their childhood unwinds. 
Savannah is not the only one who needs to face the events of the past. Tom finds discovers that he must face up to his responsibilities and he cannot continue to treat people in his abusive and ob­noxious manner. 

In this process we see him gain respect for himself and begin to find love and respect in others. He also finally recognizes the gravity of a life based on cocaine and free-basing: it destroys the -­
This film represents Keaton's first role in a drama, as well as perhaps his most powerful and real portrayal on film. So much 
unlike the perfect suburbanite he played in "Mr. Mom," Keaton's character is harsh and abrupt, clashing with almost everyone he comes in contact with. Keaton's acting talents come alive in "Clean and Sober," and after this we will hopefully see him in many more dramatic roles. 
This film is a close look at the life of someone who "does not" have a drug problem. It is at times a shocking film and a graphic one, but this is also a moving film of the life of someone who gets swept away by addiction. This is an excellent insight into a prob­lem that plagues so much of the upper crust of American society. It is a film not to be laughed at or ignored and definitely not a film to be missed. 
'Prince of Tides' royally rewarding 
that he cannot know himself until he analyzes his small town values, childhood fears and triumphs, and his brutal parents. 
Tom explains his unhappi­ness before he confronts his painful past when he says, "I was running away from that history, I thought -that bit­ter, outrageous slice of Americana that was my own failed life -or toward a new phase of that history." 
The backdrop to this family drama is the South Carolina low country near Kiawah Is­land. Conroy often uses vivid sensory imagery that allows the reader to smell the salt marshes, breathe the sea air, and hear the horns of the shrimper boats. 
Tom Wingo has a dry sense of humor that gives his dialogue an ironic tone. For ­example, Tom refers to his childhood as Hiroshima or the Titantic. He also claims, "It is an art form to hate New York City properly." 
"The Prince of Tides" is a beautifully written, carefully crafted novel that weaves the past and the present together to create a believable portrait of a pained family. 
Thursday, August 25, 1988---1
page 8 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A sportswriters meeting for veteran writers will take place today at The Observer. Fall assignments will be discussed. New writers will meet Monday night at a time to be announced. Questions may be directed to Marty Strasen at 239-5303 or 283-1471. -The Observer 
Football ticket forms have been mailed to all students, first-year ticket manager Bubba Cunningham said. Season tickets go on sale Monday (seniors), Tuesday (juniors), Wednesday (sophomores and grad students) and Thursday (freshmen) from 1:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. The seven-game season ticket costs $73.50. Those who do not receive applications may pick them up at the OBUD office in LaFortune Thursday and Friday from 7-9 p.m. -The Observer 

Warning that professional athletes are not above the law, a judge sentenced Minnesota's Dino Ciccarelli to one day in jail and fined him $1,000 Wednesday for hitting another National Hockey League player with his stick. He is believed to be the first NHL player to receive a jail term for an on-ice attack on another player. -Associated ·--Press 
The ND lacrosse team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the varsity team Friday at 4 p.m. in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
TheNDwomen's golfteamwillholdanorganizational meeting today at 6 p.m. in the basement of Walsh Hall. All those interested should attend. -The Observer 
WVFI (640 AM) will hold an executive sports staff meeting tonight at 7:30. For further information, call283­2265. -The Observer 
The Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament will be Saturday, Sept. 3 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 registration fee and must have a minimum of two girls. Proceeds will be donated to Dis­mas H_o~se. Signups will be held Monday and Tuesday in both dmmg halls at breakfast and dinner. Any questions should be directed to Kris Malaker at x1915 or Rachel Lyons at x2895. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby club will hold a meeting for all new ~layers ~oday at 5 p.m. in room 117 of Haggar Hall. Prac­tice begms Monday at 4:30 p.m. at Stepan Field. -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institute will have its first workout at 6:30p.m. Friday at Rockne Memorial. All re­turning members should attend. -The Observer 
Baseball roundup 

Yankees gain on Tigers, Sox 
Associated Press 

Twins 8, Tigers 2 Angels 4, Red Sox 3 
NEW YORK -Rickey Hen­derson's RBI single with two MINNEAPOLIS -Dan Glad­BOSTON -Roger Clemens outs capped a five-run rally in den and Kirby Puckett each hit lost his fourth consecutive deci­the ninth inning Wednesday home runs to highlight a six­sion for the first time in his and led the New York Yankees run second inning as the Min­career as the California Angels over the Oakland Athletics 7-6. nesota Twins defeated Detroit beat the Boston Red Sox 4-3 
The Yankees, 2-46 in games 8-2 Wednesday night and Wednesday night behind Mike they trail after eight innings, finished the season series with Witt's six-hit pitching in eight­came back with eight hits in 11 consecutive victories over plus innings and Tony Armas' the ninth against three the Tigers. two-run homer. pitchers. Most of the damage Clemens, 15-9, who missed a was against Dennis Eckersley, The Twins had five extra scheduled start last week for who leads the majors in saves. base hits in the second, one the first time since 1985, al­
The losing pitcher was Gene short of the club record for an lowed five hits and three runs Nelson, 7-5. inning, off Frank Tanana, 14-8. in six innings, striking out Cecilia Guante, 5-6, got the In winning 11 of 12 from seven to increase his major victory. Detroit, the Twins outscored league-leading total to 248. He 
Jose Canseco hit his major the first-place Tigers 65-18 has lost four consecutive starts league-leading 33th homer, a after dropping the first since July 30 while bothered by two-run shot in the ninth. meeting this season 7-0. a muscle strain in his back. 
Green: Tyson 'sucker-punched' 
Associated Press in self-defense after Green publicist said that Tyson had to 
ripped his shirt and shoved into see a physician because the 
NEW YORK -Mitchell Green him, "ranting and raving" that hand with which he hit Green says he will not drop charges Tyson and King owed him was hurting him, and that that heavyweight champion 
money. police agreed to postponeMike Tyson hit him with a Tyson failed to appear Wed­Tyson's appearance until sucker punch outside an after­nesday at a Harlem police sta­Thursday.
hours Harlem haberdashery. tion where he was to receive a Tyson's injury -a hairline "Mike Tyson hit me and ran summons charging him with fracture to the third metacar­like a sissy," said Green, who simple assault, a mis-pal -was not serious, according 
lost an encounter in the ring demeanor. The boxer's to his manager, Bill Cayton.
with Tyson in 1986 as well as the one-punch affair before "He's great," said Sweet, dawn Tuesday. one of five freshmen on the
McCaffrey
Green said Tyson hit him Irish squad. "He's full of ener­after he told the champ he did continued from page 12 gy, and he's really excited not fight hard in their 1986 bout on films, Elmer Bennett about getting us off and run­
because he had been cheated Daimon Sweet and Keith At­ning, like the rest of us are." by promoter Don King. kins are all very talented 
"I want a rematch," Green players. It's going to be a lot of "You can tell he knows a lot said at a Wednesday news con­fun coaching this group." about the game," said center ference he called to tell his side McCaffery met individually Scott Paddock. "He seems of the early morning fisticuffs. with all of the Notre Dame really excited about the year"Enough name-calling. All I players before the first team and we've all got the impres­
want is Mike Tyson to accept meeting Wednesday, and the sion that he's got a lot to offer, 
my challenge." players generally give him given his past success with 
Tyson said he slugged Green high marks. Lehigh." 
Tile oe..wer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, IICC8PIS classified adwlrtlalng from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile oe..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Centllf, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifleds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must 
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cMracters perday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
································································ 
USED TEXTBOOK5-·ALL CLASSES! Bought & Sold--Best pricasl PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph.233-2342 
WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
································································ 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
found: Pennsylvania Driver's Licanse of Jim Corr. Check with The Observer of-lice. ................................................................ 
FOR RENT 
I 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 683­8889-287-6389 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY...1-219·291· 7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-3684288-()955 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY ST. $1251 MO. OWN ROOM, SHARE 

-
BATH CALL BILL, ED, OR SCOTI 287­7933 OR STOP BY. WE DON'T GET PHONE UNTIL FRIDAY 
HOMES • ROOMS FOR RENT.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
POLITICAL PHONE SURVEYORS NEEDED EARN EXTRA MONEY PART TIME TEMPORARY POSITIONS EVENINGS AND SATURDAY $4.75 ·• $5.0G+f0UR CALL DIANA AT 233-9826 OR 259-3520 
TICKETS TICKETS TICKETS Will buy tickets to any ND football game, home or away, student or GA. Call us today and get $ to buy those bargain­priced textbooks. Call 4601, 3155, or 3157. 
Your football ticket application. Don't like football? I won't harass you about your lack of school spirit if you sell me your application. Call 2804 or 272-7690. 
LOFT WANTED! WILL PAY FOR A1 CONDITION. X3201 ............................................................... . I NEED A RIDE TO PITISBURGH ANY WEEKEND SOON. CAN OFFER RIDE 
~~-~-~-..~.~~.~.:.~.-.~:.~:.......................... 
I I
FOR SALE 
CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CALL FOR FACTS TODAY. 602-837·3401. EXT. 881 
.................... 
TANDY 1ooosx.·M·N:r·Fi:PN1-Fi&i:ol-s OF SFTWRE ··$1000; CALL 259·4317 AFT 5 
··································· 
SELLING MY FAITHFLiLL·····MULE (PLYMUTH VOLARE,76,STATION WAGON) FOR ONLY $150. UGLY AND RUSTY, BUT RELIABLE 
······························ 
LOFT FOR DORM ROOM;·"$Jo. Evenings -2n-5533. 
································································ 
BMW 2002, 72, sunr!, engine reblt··runs like new. $4000 219·872·2636 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and now it's up to me to sell his blue NO "starter" jacket (size Medium) Oust like on page 4 of the bookstore catalog). Like new. Regularly $63.955 but it's yours for only $30. Call 2804 or 272-7690 for this chance of a lifetime. 
1980 DATSANSX 200 RUN GOOD SOME RUST 232 5762 
BOOKS BOOKS 
Physics 127, French 101, The Holt Hand· book, An Anatomy of Drama, Elements of Style, The Portable Shakespeare, Epicoene, Dutchess of Malfi, Doctor Faustus, Chushingura, 20 Plays of the No Theatre, 4 Plays of Chikamatsu. 
can Will at 2089 
'79 Mercury Cougar XR7, A<:, VB, Good cond. $1800. 2511-6404 (altar 5:00). 
TICKETS 
NEED 1 STUDENT TX FOR MICHIGAN GAME X2756 
HELP!! MY PARENTS ARE ARRIVING FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME AND I NEED3 TIX DESPERATELY--WILL PAY $$$$$ CALL DEBBIE AT 2939. 
I want Michigan tlxlllllllll!llllllll Lots of them for BIG $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP I NEED MICH,MICH ST, • ALL HOME GAME TIXS.272-6306 
FOR SALE MICHIGAN tickets call Greg 234·6355 
NEED GA TtX FOR ALL FOOTBALL HOME GAMES. 272-0QSB. 
NEED GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME. 239-5303 OR 272·3753 AFTER 5 PM. ASK FOR SHIRLEY. 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STANFORD 
PURDUE  MIAMI  OR  USC.  VERY  
SERIOUS  $$$$$$$$$$  IN·  
VOLVED.CALL JORGE • 2065.  

PERSONALS 
Chris "I don't need friends" Fransen-
Oh...My God! Don't forget 
some of your old party buddies. 
Or it will be...whatever. 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x11n 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of ND and be in their band. My sister is in the Band of the Fighting IRISH. My parents need to be at the Michigarl'ND game to prevent my siblings from killing each other and to see their baloved children at this game of high sentimental value. Help stop needless violence. Sell me 3 tickets and keep my family intact. $$ little or no ob­ject. Call 2804 or 272· 7690. 

Bored with your afternoons ... Want to meet people and get In­volved ... Come worik at the Obaerver 
Be a part of the team as a DAY EDITOR or TYPIST Contact Jim Winkler at 239-7471. 
BROTHER WILUAM J. DOHERTY, 
C.S.C. Congratulations on your 45 yeara at 
the Post Office. GOOD JOB! 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB OPEN: Wed-Sat 9:00 to 2:00AM $2 
cover Lifetime CLUB Membership $25 ""Sign up at the Club anytime or grab a fonm in The Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
••sENIOR CLUB•• Stop by tonight and see what's up! OPEN 9:00-2:00AM WED-SAT 
••sENIOR CLUB•• 
ARE YOU A FEMALE ABOUT 6FT. TALL? DO YOU HAVE BROWN HAIR AND BIG BROWN PUPP DOG EYES? ARE YOU IN PROF. ANDERSON'S 
11:15 PSYCHOLOGY 111? IF SO I'M IN 
LOVEll!! JUST THOUGHT YOU'D LIKKE TO KNOW. JK 
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION Loving couple, both college teachers, un· able to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible caring people ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical ex­penses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect. 317·743.0791 
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study group. Introductory meeting: Today, 7pm, 309 Graca. All welcome! Questions? Call Jim 263 1621 or Andreas 287 4855. 
WHAT AN ALCOHOL POLICY! If you sit in your room alone and drink shots until you die, that's okay, as long as you don't make alot of noise doing it. However, if you want to have a drink with your date at an SYR, you beMer finish it before you walk to your friend's room across the hall. 
MATI BRESLIN!!!! You will forever be a God in my eyes II Even if you are a tainted man! 
MOM ALWAYS SAID DON'T PLAY WITH ROCKS­
YOU CAN GET HURT 
I SHOULD HAVE LISTENED 
TO MOM FATLIPS AREN'T FUN!! 
IF LIFE WAS 
ONLY ONE BIG SERIES OF 
FATLIPSIII 
WELCOME BACK JUNIORS!! THURS. Class Picnic 5-7 PM at Holy Cross Field 
Featuring ZETO AND THE HEAT ONS TXS still available for weekend trips SAT. Dunes Trip 
$5 -Aide and lunch provided 
Buses leave at 1O:OOAM. SUN. Chicago White Sox vs. Cleveland Indians at 
Pr. upholstered chairs $35, lamp $1 5, 4'x4' white carpet $10, AMf'M dual cas­sette deck $45. 291-4869.
WANTED 
12X12 CARPETS FOR SALE! 
GREAT CONDITION HELP WANTED, DAYS AND NIGHTS CALL 277-4587/284-5140 APPLY IN' PERSON MACRI'S DELl PENN STATE GA'S NEEDED. TOP 409 FARLEY!! YOU ARE BEAUTIFULII CLUB 23 NOW OPPEN IIPRICE PAID. 288·284 1 I LOVE YOU ALLII EVEN OUR 5TH STUFFED PIZZA • SANDWICHES ROOMIE, HEIDIHOI!

~;c~iC3~N";.:·N=o··i:.11Ai:1i··;:;x··;,v:;.:Nriio.· 
288-2841 

DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT HELPII! NEED GA TIX · FOR MICH, IF INTERESTED CALL STAN, MIA, RICE, PENN ST GAMES LOFT WANTED! WILL PAY FOR A1 MARK x11n 
CALL CHRIS AT 272-0882 CONDITION. X3201 Commiskey Park in Chicago 
$1 0 ·ticket and ride provided SIGN-UPS: Thurs. 1 ·3 Fri. 1 2·4 in Junior Class Office­2nd floor LaFortune 
ANY QUESTIONS? Call the office at 239·5 1 17 ""COME OUT AND ENJOY THE FUN"" 

Thursday, August 25, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Four indicted in Bloom-Walters agent scandal 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Three agents and Cris Carter of the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles were in­dicted Wednesday on charges ranging from racketeering to perjury following an investiga­tion of illegal payments and threats used to sign dozens of athletes. 
New York-based agents Norby Walters and Lloyd Bloom are accused of offering athletes cash, cars, clothing and trips in exchange for signed -in some cases post­dated -agreements allowing Walters and Bloom to repre­sent them in professional contract negotiations. 
Also indicted was agent Dave Lueddeke of Sherman Oaks, Calif. 
U.S. Attorney Anton Valukas said 43 college athletes who signed with Walters and Bloom, many of whom subse­quently became pros, avoided prosecution with pretrial agreements to perform com­munity service and to reim­burse a portion of their scholarships. 
The group also agreed to tes­tify if the case goes to trial and includes NFL players Ron Mor­ris of Chicago, Ronnie Harmon of Buffalo and Paul Palmer of Kansas City plus Brad Sellers of the NBA's Chicago Bulls. 
"We considered things like their age... their back­grounds, the amount of money involved and anv nrior record," Valukas said. 
Valukas said when induce­ments of cash or goods failed, Walters and Bloom resorted to threats. 
In one 1987 phone conversa­tion, the indictment charged, Walters told Seattle Seahawks linebacker Tony Woods -while Woods was still a student at Pitt: "This is my life on the line... Now it's your life on the line... your reputation, your business... your family, your brother, your school, every­thing is going to be tainted and tainted bad. 
· "It's gonna be terrible for 
Welcome Back Students!! 
To learn more about THE HOLY CROSS FATHERS AND BROTHERS 
Stop by and visit our display 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT '88 TUESDAY, AUG. 30th 7-10 pm STEPAN CENTER 
or contact 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocations Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 
you." 
Walters and Bloom, the original targets of the 18-month investigation, were indicted on charges of racketeering, mail fraud, wire fraud and extor­tion. 
The telephone at Walters' World Sports & entertainment Inc. office in New York went unanswered Wednesday. 
Attorney M.L. Trope, who is representing Bloom, said Wed­nesday, "Lloyd Bloom is a kid who... did not commit any crime. He'll vigorously fight to vindicate himself." 
Carter, who left Ohio State with a year of eligibility left and ended up with the Eagles in a supplemental draft, was charged with obstruction of justice for concealing a $5,000 payment delivered by Lued­deke from the federal grand jury investigating the case. 
Carter, who also had dealings with Walters and Rlnnm ::~lso was chare:ed with 

mail fraud. 
"I am cooperating ful­ly... and could only say that I regret my past mistakes," Carter said in a statement released by the Eagles. 
NFL spokesman Jim Heffer­nan said the league would have no comment on Carter. 
Lueddeke was charged with perjury and obstruction of jus­tice stemming from the $5,000 payment. Lueddeke did not im­mediately return a telephone call to his ficm, Pro-Line Sports. 
Walters, 58, and Bloom, 29, both face 70 years in jail and $2 million in fines. Lueddeke, 37, faces 15 years in jail and $750,000 in fines. Carter, who has agreed to cooperate with authorities, faces 10 years and a $500,000 fine. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
Day Editors 

For further Information contact 
Jim Winkler 

at The Observer (239-5303) 
l you can wear your schOO mascot on your famrite athletic­styled shoe, and enjoy the comfOrt of full-grain garment leather! When it comes to quality, comfOrt and spirited good looks, we speak your language. 
Team spirited shoes. 
~.J~I® 
BY JAVELIN 
Buy them here: 
r -, 
J.C. PENNY 
L 

For information on univtrsity ~o shoes (your school, or others) call 1-800-999-SHOE. 
page 10 
Rebuild 
continued from page 12 
is working with the first team at the other guard spot. Mike Heldt and Tim Ryan, both sop­homores who played a com­bined total of just over 30 minutes last year, are compet­ing for the starting slot at cen­ter. 
"I think we're getting better fundamentally," said Holtz. "We're startling to become a unit. (Sandri) has had a good fall. We have two good centers, and even though they're young, they're having a good battle.'' 
The young offensive line will be up against a vastly more ex­perienced Michigan defensive front. Led by Outland Trophy candidate Mark Messner, the Wolverines' defensive line is rated as the third best in the country by The Sporting News. 
In picking Michigan to win the national championship, The Sporting News also rates the Wolverines' offensive linemen as the nation's finest. That certainly should test an Irish defensive line that cur­rently has Bob Dahl, Ted FitzGerald and Tom Gorman nursing injuries, though all should be healthy by the Sept. 10 contest. 
"Michigan has the best offen­sive line in the country accor­ding to the stats and prognos­ticators," said Holtz. "It's going to be a real challenge to our defensive line, and it's going to be a challenge for our offensive line." 
Even though The Sporting News tabs Michigan as its fa­vorite to win the national title, most of the other preseason magazines on the newsstands seem to agree with the Associ­ated Press' and United Press International's selections of Florida State. 
The Seminoles are the top choice of Athlon, College & Pro Football Weekly, Inside Sports, Lindy's and Street & Smith's. Dissenting opinions come from Game Plan, which likes Clem­son, and Sport, which bets the farm on Iowa. 
The magazines can't seem to come to a decision a'to where Notre Dame will finish. The Irish are ranked as high as fifth by College & Pro Football Weekly and Inside Sports, but are nowhere to be found in Ath­lon's Top 20 forecast. 
More conservative estimates 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Copy Editors 
For further information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 

The Observer Thursday, August 25, 1988 
have Notre Dame ranked 12th Besides saying Michigan has linebackers, Clemson the best by Lindy's and UPI, 13th by the best offensive line, The defensive backfield, Texas AP, 15th by The Sporting News, Sporting News states that Tech the number-one wide 17th by Street & Smith's and Auburn has the top defensive receivers and Notre Dame the 20th by Sport. line, Texas A&M the standout strongest offensive backfield. 



Meet Spuds McKenzie On The Playing Field Fri-Sat Aug 26,27 
1636 N. Ironwood between Edison & S.R. 23 

FREE DELIVERY!!! 271-0SUB 
-Live remotes w/ WAOR-WZZP -Live Band on Sat Night -Sub eating contests -Give away's all weekend long -Big Screen T.V. Fri & Sat nights 
Now an eating and drinking establishment 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
SOFT  
CONTACT  
LENSES  
•Softmate Dally or Exte.nded Wear  
Contact Lenses  
Dally Wear: +7.00 to -12.00 ExtCnded Wear: plano to -6.00 •Tinted  
Contact Lenses  
Dally or Extended Wear  
Softm{lte B or Bausch & Lomb  2 different colora  




Thursday, August 25, 1988 The Observer 
page 11 

DINNER MENUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
ACROSS 25 Prefix with center
I Complain 
27 Marsh plants 
5 Converse 

Roasted Top Round Tarragon Chicken 
29 Expressed 
9 Topgallants 

Baked Sole Italian Lasagna 
31 Pindar was
14 Completed 

Mushroom Stroganoff Cherry Swedish Pancakes 
15 City in W one 
34"0f-I

Devonshire Sandwich Deli Bar 
Finland 
Sing"
16 Skiing heights 
35 Snoozed
for Rene 
39 V_P. under 17 Verne's 

COMICS 
G.R.F. skipper 40 Yorkshire city 18 Type of price 41 Whetstone 
19 Sal Mag lie was 42 Pinza in one "South 20 Wilder's Pacific"

Far Side Gary Larson ''town'' 44 An insecticide 23 Minks' 47 "Pathetique" relatives 
or "Moon­24 Atlantic bird light" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE

0  0  0 0 We•re still one player short.. Someone's :Jonna, have fo cui fl>emse/v('s ;,., no/f. 0 0  


Plonorio sports 
Bloom County 

fW.IN'/1 MIT£ !NSWJI(£ TWilY. 
Nm? 11 {?(}~ a: 
(}Cif·tr/6HfW()S S</Pfii?/Otr!TY. 
51 Suffix with peon or break 52-Nellie 
(prude) 55 Lead sulfide 57 Finn's hideout 60Starof"M" 61 Secular 62 Secondhand 63 Diaphanous 64 "-long way 
to T,ipperary 
65 Reno word 66 Llama's milieu 67 Line a roof &ll Word for an 
ecole coed 
DOWN 
I The Ubangi 
joins it 2 Wards off 3 Kind of control 4 Put to the test 5 Ran, as a 
stream 6 Attila's men 7 Rabbit 
follower 8 Private teacher 
9 It always attracts 10 "It's a sin to tell-" 
11 " ... woodman, -beechen tree!": Campbell 
12 Kind of bike 


13 Heathrow arrival 21 Rye fungus 22 Dispensers of T.L.C. 26 July 15, e.g. 28-quanon 30 Gormandized 32 Penrod's  35 Anagram for Ashe 36 Fictional Silver 37 Made beloved 38-diem 40 Horne and Nyman 43 Reasonable  48 Refer to 49 Raise a nap 50 Temper 53 Mulligrubs 54 On Mom's side 56 Confuse 58 Hudson Bay Indian  
friend  45 Press adjuncts  59 Amigo's  
33 The diamond's  46 Constantine's  agreement  
Speaker  birthplace  60 Pharm. degree  


Far Side Gary Larson 

·. 

"Mom! The kids at school soy we're a family of Nerdentholsl ... Is that true?" 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL 
Ar STEPAN MALL THURS AUG 25 12PM-5PM 
Cleanest, Cheapest way to rent 

....--------------­
Sports

Thursday, August 25, 1988 page 12 
Students to pay 
Lehigh's McCaffrey to see six sports replaces Shumate 
By MARTY STRASEN "We went round and round By PETE SKIKO sion, Phelps had narrowed his and PETE SKIKO with the idea for hockey last Assistant Sports Editor choices to three candidates: Sports Staff year,'' Cunningham continued. Don Casey, a former Temple "Ric Schafer (the Irish hockey Fran McCaffery, head bas­head coach who is now an as­
ketball coach at Lehigh Univer­sistant for the NBA's Los An­Students will have to pay to coach) really wanted us to sity, accepted a position this geles Clippers; Craig Lit­
see Notre Dame volleyball, wo­charge. We agreed with him, men's basketball, men's soc­but decided not to do it last 

summer as an assistant to tlepage, recently released as cer, baseball, wrestling and year.'' Notre Dame basketball coach Rutgers' head basketball coa­hockey games this school year, Reactions among the other Digger Phelps. ch; and McCaffery. 
first-year ticket manager affected coaches ranged from McCaffery, 29, led the En­"My top priority was getting Bubba Cunningham said Tues­satisfaction to surprise. Bubba Cunningham gineers to a 21-10 season last someone with Division I college day. "I would certainly think that scholarships for many of its year, the best in Lehigh's his­coaching experience," said Flashing student ID's at the we're worth a dollar," said wo­varsity sports beginning this tory, and compiled a combined Phelps. "When you take a look 
.. entrance is no longer enough, men's head basketball coach school year . 49-38 record during his three at (McCaffery), you see that he as $2 will be charged for admis­Muffet McGraw. "The admin­"It's a very modest fee," seasons there. took Lehigh to the <NCAA) sion to hockey games and $1 istration has always hoped that Rosenthal said. "We sure don't "I felt all along that there tournament for the second time each for volleyball, women's we'd be a revenue-producing want to price the tickets over really is only one assistant's in the school's history and basketball, men's soccer and sport and we've always drawn the students' heads, but at the job in the country that I'd leave nearly pulled the upset of that wrestling, Cunningham said. fairly well from the student same nme you nave to realize a head coaching job for, and tournament by taking Temple 
An "all-sports pass" is avail­body. that the cost of college athletics that's Notre Dame's," said right down to the wire (in the able for $10, he added. The pass "The only way we're going is rising every year. What McCaffery. first round). He obviously will allow students to attend as to start producing any revenue you're going to get is people "No question about it, this is knows the game very well, has many of the above-mentioned is if we start charging at the with a genuine interest in the the kind of opportunity that I've a good background with games as they wish to see. gate," she continued. "I think sports." aspired to since I started schools on the East Coast, and Passes are available at the students would be willing to "We don't call them 'non­coaching. And it's going to be we got nothing but super ticket office on the second floor pay a dollar to see us play." revenue' sports or 'minor' nice to be able to go after the recommendations from people of the Joyce Athletic and Con­"I'm behind the athletic de­sports anymore," Cunningham best players in the country, about him. vocation Center. partment, however they want added. "They're varsity something I didn't get to do all "It's just great to have some­
The decision to charge for to run their programs," noted sports, and they provide great the time at Lehigh (whose bas­one who's made the big deci­these events was made at a head baseball coach Pat entertainment. They are reve­ketball program does not pro­sions during crunchtime on year-end meeting in the spring, Murphy, also coming off his nue sports, but some will obvi­vide for scholarships). I'm your staff and, when you look Cunningham said. rookie year with Notre Dame. ously draw more revenue than really excited." at it, we're going to have ex­
"We think these are compet­"I know I have an input (in others." actly the same team in two itive sports, and that there is a departmental decisions), but The amount of revenue com­The former University of years as we will this year value which goes along with it's not my place to speak out ing in will now depend partially Pennsylvania point guard (there are no seniors on this that," said Cunningham. "A lot on such matters." on the number of students who replaces John Shumate, the ex­year's squad), so hopefully he of the coaches are happy about The funds raised by student decide to pay the price for Notre Dame star who resigned and the team will be able to gel it because it puts higher value admission prices will help of­games. Will attendance June 30 to become the head co­together."
ach at Southern Methodist.
on what these teams are doing. fset the budgets of the teams decrease because of a dollar or Lehigh played a decidedly
Shumate becomes the lOth as­
They deserve that. We have and improve the level of com­two? more uptempo game than some great athletes here be­petition through future scholar­"I don't think it will " Cun­sistant coach under Phelps to Notre Dame did last year, 
move on to the head coaching
sides the football and basket­ships, Rosenthal said. Notre ningham said. "At least I hope largely because of personnel.
ranks.

ball players." Dame approved additional it doesn't." McCaffery feels that next year 
"The day John left for SMU, he will be involved with one of 
he recommended that we hire the most talented runningFran McCaffery if we had the teams he's seen. 
opportunity," said Phelps.
ND takes CFA academic award 

"Personally, I think Fran has "I'll primarily be working
the background to be a strong with the guards in practice,"
Special to the Observer that entered in 1982, 24 players, all received addition to a basketball pro­said McCaffery, "and it's ob­their degrees within the allotted five-year per· Notre Dame won the College Football Asso­

gram that has tremendous po­vious we're going to have a lot ciation Academic Achievement award for the iod. In-fad, 16 of those 24 received their 
tential over the next few 
of quality people in the back­fourth time in eight years in May, and in the diplomas within four years. 
seasons." 

court. With Jamere (Jackson), process set a school record by becomming the Notre Dame's 100 percent rate marked the 
Phelps went through an ex­Joe Fredrick and Tim Singleton first school to reach the 100 percent graduation best since the CF A originated the award in 
tensive search for Shumate's we've got some solid experi­level for a given class. 1981, topping its previous record of 96.4 per­
replacement before learning of 
ence, and from what I've seen Notre Dame's entire freshman football class cent in 1984 (27 of 28). 
McCaffery's availability. Before making his final deci­
see McCAFFREY, page 8 

Holtz rebuilds offensive line for Michigan test 
While Notre Dame's 26-7 victory over Michigan in last year's season-opener Steve may be remembered more for Mic­higan's seven turnovers, it also fea­Megargeetured a standout performance from the Irish offensive line. 


Football Notebook 
With line featuring four fifth-year seniors leading the way, the Notre Dame rushing attack gained 214 yards. Former tight end Andy Heck and The result was characteristic of the en­junior Dean Brown figure to replace tire season as Notre Dame averaged Rehder and Spruell at the two tackle more than 230 yards rushing per game. positions. Junior Tim Grunhard, who 
started much of last season, returns at 
But heading into this year's season­guard.opener with Michigan, the situation is 
"It's awfully hard to rebuild a line " 
a bit different. Center Chuck Lanza said Head Coach Lou Holtz. "When y~utackles Tom Rehder and Byron Spruell: have to replace five starters, it's really 

and guard Tom Freeman all have tough.graduated. The offensive line's only 
"But we've gotten good leadership
non-senior starting last season's Mic­from Heck and Grunhard," Holtz con­higan game -Jeff Pearson -has since tinued. "Heck's played very well (atwithdrawn from the University for per­guard). He's done a nice job. And Grun­sonal reasons. 

hard's just a good, solid, consistent 
W~ile Lanza and Rehder are busy football player."makmg names for themselves with the Pittsburgh Steelers and New England 
At the other two spots on the line
Patriots, respectively, the Irish are however, the Irish will be relying o~ hoping that an offensive line filled with newcomers. Winston Sandri, a sopho­new n~mes can establish itself against more who did not play a down last year, 

a considerably more experienced Mic­higan unit. see REBUILD, page 10 


