Just like USC
IACCENT: What could have been 
Variable cloudiness, windy 
and mild Tuesday with a 40 
percent chance of thunder­
showers. High around 60.
IVIEWPOINT: Inquiring into faith 


VOL. XXII, NO. 54 
~ 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Drug tests ordered for transportation workers by DOT 
Associated Press After Burnley's announce­ment, the head of the 40,000­
WASHINGTON-The Trans­member Air Line Pilots Asso­portation Department on Mon­ciation vowed to go to Congress day ordered a wide range of and to the federal courts to drug testing, including random overturn the requirement for checks, for more than 4 million random testing. transportation workers from "Random testing is a airline pilots and flight atten­counter-productive, shotgun dants to truckers and rail­strategy that is at the same roaders. time an unwarranted invasion 
Transportation Secretary of privacy and of no significant Jim Burnley said the transpor· value in the battle against drug tation industries are no more abuse," said ALPA President immune to drug abuse as other Henry Duffy. parts of society, listing a series The series of federal regula­of accidents and other in­tions announced by Burnley dicators he said shows nar­call for transportation compan­cotics to be a problem among ies to have a comprehensive truck and bus drivers, com­testing program in place by mercial pilots and railroad December 1989. Companies workers. with 50 or fewer employees-in­
"The American people cluding tens of thousands of AP Photo demand and expect a drug-free over-the-road independent 
transportation system. These truckers-have a second yeararation for a November launch on the secret mission. new rules will take us as far as to comply. (Left to right) Pilot Guy Gardner, Mission Specialist practically possible toward The Transportation Depart­
William Shepherd; Richard Mullane; Jerry Roos; that goal," Burnley said at a ment estimated the testing will (foreground, Gibson). news conference. cost businesses more than $2.1 He acknowledged the tests, billion during the first 10 years, which take effect in a year, but Burnley said the testing likely will be challenged in the will save the same companies

Malloy and students discuss 
courts. about $8.7 billion in increased The Supreme Court has productivity, accident reduc­before it two separate drug­tions and medical cost savings. 

student-faculty interaction 
testing cases, including one in­Besides requiring random By NATASHA WILSON Devron, Student Faculty Rela­heads the Intellectual Life volving post-accident testing of checks, the regulations call for Senior Staff Reporter tions commissioner said they Committee which was formed railroad workers, that are ex­
called the meeting to encour­this semester to promote aca­pected to be decided next year. see DRUGS, page 7 
University President Father age all academic commis­demic growth around campus. Edward Malloy met with hall sioners to choose hall fellows Goldrick and student com­academic commissioners, stu­and participate in activities mittee members have met with 
Senate examines hall
dent government representa­with them. rectors and hall presidents this tives and hall fellows last night About 12 dorms currently semester to encourage in­

formals, phone books
to discuss ways to promote in­have fellows, Devron said, and creased interaction between teraction between students and added that he hopes every faculty and students, said com­faculty through activities with dorm will have at least one fel­mittee member and student By FLORENTINE council, and the Campus
HOELKER
resident hall fellows. low by the end of the school body Vice President Mike Life Council to show theirSean Hoffman, academic co­year. Paese. 
News Staff 
dissatisfaction with the deci­ordinator for the Student Gov­John Goldrick, associate vice sion to limit hall formals to
see MALLOY, page 7
ernment Association and Chris president for Residence Life, 
A resolution concerning one per semester. the limiting of residence hall Student Senate also ap­formals was passed by the proved the Fall Board of
Red dots intended to raise 
Student Senate Monday eve­Trustees reports. The ning. reports deal with co-ed The resolution, formed housing, transportation,

consciousness about nuclear war 
mainly by the four student parking, and social life at By REGIS COCCIA plosive power in the nuclear ar­with dots signifying the explo­
senators, stated that since Notre Dame. Senior Staff Reporter senals of the United States and sive power of the U.S. and So­
alcohol has been officialy "These reports are very, Soviet Union, said UCAM co­viet nuclear stockpiles. The 
eliminated at formals and very good. They address A new campus peace organi­founders Janet Herold and dots, each representing the 
formals are a "vital part of crucial aspects of life here zation took the issue of nuclear Dave Krier. total explosive power in World 
Notre Dame hall and social at Notre Dame and suggest war Monday and laid it at the "I don't think anybody has War II, almost blacked out the 
life," their numbers should some viable possibilities for feet of the Notre Dame commu­any idea what (nuclear slide, he said. 
not be limited by the Univer­change," said Student Body nity. strength) we have. We wanted 
sity Administration. Vice-President Mike Paese. UCAM, United Campuses To to demonstrate our nuclear ca­"It was so shocking to see in 
"Students have really A "Civil War" was an­Prevent Nuclear War, placed pability," Krier said. class, we just felt we had to 
communicated to us... that nounced between North and 6,000 red paper dots around "We wanted to let people share it," Krier said. "If noth­
this decision was a major South quads to support the campus Monday to raise know what we're going into and ing else, it was important to our 
flaw (in the Alcohol Policy) United Way. Money will be awareness of the dangers of nu­what supporting the defense organization. All we wanted 
and a step in the wrong di­collected at both dining halls clear war. system really means," Herold was to get people to think." 
rection," commented Tom during dinner, with the most Each individual dot said. "Our main goal on this Nuclear war is the greatest 
Rask and Mark Chapman. generous quad winning the represented the total nuclear campus is to inform. There are threat to life on earth today, 
The senators met with Fa­war. megatonnage of bombs in things we can do about our sit­Herold said. "If we don't start 
ther David Tyson, who rec­Finally, the long-awaited World War II, including the uation." there, with the biggest thing 
ommended that they use the campus phone directories bombs dropped on Hiroshima Krier said he got the idea that threatens our children, 
"proper channels" such as should be in the dorms by and Nagasaki, Japan while all from Professor George Lopez, 
the senate, Hall Presidents' the end of the week. 6,000 dots represented the ex-who displayed a slide marked see DOTS, page 7 
r 
,i ' ~ 
I 
I 
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Astrlk Gabriel, professor emeritus of the Medieval Institute, has been elected president of the International Society for the Encyclopedia of Church History in Hun­gary. The society, with headquarters in Toronto, supports and directs research in the Vatican Archives, continuing the post-World War II publications of papal documents on the history of Hungary. A native of Hungary, Gabriel received his doctorate from the University of Budapest in 1936. -The Observer 
The space shuttle Buran was successfully launched by the Soviet Union on its first, unmanned voyage early Tuesday, official Radio Moscow said. The radio made the announcement just minutes after the scheduled 6 a.m. launch Tuesday (10 p.m. EST Monday) from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Soviet Central Asia. It gave no details of the launch, but the timing indicated the countdown had gone smoothly despite fears that rising wind and ice would halt the launch for a second time. U.S. officials won't launch their space shuttle if there is ice on the booster rocket or orbiter, and cold temperatures contributed to the failure of booster rocket seals that led to the Challenger disaster in 1986. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Auditions for the Feb. 22-25 production of the musical "Simon" will be held Nov. 29-30 from 6-9:30 p.m. Sign up for an audition time in the SUB Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Any questions can be di­rected to Rob Meffe at 283-3660. -The Observer 
Photographers are needed to work on the 1988-89 Junior Parents' Weekend slide show. Those interested who have a 35mm camera should contact Dianna Gullott at 283-2639. 
-The Observer 
Black Cultural Arts Fashion Show tryouts will be held in Washington Hall Nov. 16 and 21 at 7 p.m. First cuts, Nov. 16, will be open to the public. Tickets are on sale at the door. For more information, contact Niobe Joseph at 283-4970. -The Observer 
Thanksgiving Service Project needs students to help at the House of Hope, a shelter for homeless women and children. Call Angi at 239-5293 for more information. 
-The Observer 
Artists Needed for Amnesty International's Christmas Card design contest. Three designs will be selected to receive $10 and aT-shirt. Call John Farley at 283-1561 for more information. -The Observer 
Sophomores interested in the Sophomore Committee fo~ J~o~ Parents' _Weekend 1988-89 may pick up an ap­plication m the Office of Student Activities, LaFortune Student Center, and return them by Friday. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Chorale presents its fall concert today at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
~xu~l Harassment is th~ topic of a brown bag diScussion today at 12:15 p.m. m the Hesburgh Library lounge. Sponsored by the Women's Resource Committee of the GSU. -The Observer 
Applying to Medical School? Come learn about oneof your options, Osteopathic Medicine. The ND PreProfessional Society is sponsoring a discusson with members of Omni Health care tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 
.118 Nieuwland Science Hall. -The Observer 
AIESEC meets tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Sorin Room LaFortune. Call Jeff at 283-3376 if you cannot attend. -Th~ 
Observer 

De•ign Editor . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Lisa O'Malley De•ign A..utant .......... Karen New love Viewpoint LaJIOIII .. . . .. .. .. .. .. Moira Fox TJIPe•ellen . . . . . . . . Bernard Brenlnkmeyer Accl!nt Editor ............. Trisha Chambers ............................................. Mike Kolar Accent Copy Editor............. Mike Restle New• Editor ................... Matt Gallagher Accent De~ner .......... Annette Rowland COJIII Editor .............. Christine Walah ND DaJI Editor ......... Chris Dombrowski Sport• COJIII Editor... . Greg Guffey Photographer............. Jennifer O'Donald 
De .,..._ (USPS "' 1-4000) is publilbed Monday lhrouab Friday cxcepccluriaa exam ud v.calioa periods. n..,..._ is publisbed by the sludenU of lhc Univcnil)' of Noue Dame ud Saini Mary's CoiJeae. Sublcriptiona may be purcbaa­ed for 140 per year (Ill per -let)by wriliaa n. ...._,,P.O. Boll Q, Notte 
Dame, ladiaM *'"· 
n. .,..._ Ia aiDCIDber of n. A111diW "'-·All reproduction riahll are 
~ 
Tuesday, November 15, 1988
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Secret admirer ads work wonders for social life 



The focus of this article is a true Notre Dame 
institution: The Observer personal ads. Every 
day at lunch, the great majority of students 
read through these ads. Although there are a 
wide variety, certain ones stand out: the 
"secret admirer" ads. 

In the essence of true equality, the secret admirer personals do not discriminate against either sex. As you've read, the recipients range from "the guy who works the salad bar at South on Monday nights" to the "gorgeous redhead in a green dress who was buying shampoo at the bookstore yesterday.'' 
The requests following these descriptive in­troductions vary as well. While some proclaim passionate love, others simply offer compli­ments or attempt to arrange a future rendez­vous. The primary goal, however, is to receive some form of response from the object of your attention. 
Of course, personals which read "Will the beautiful brunette in Dr. Freeman's8a.m. Orgo class, who wore spandex pants and a blue sweater to class Monday, meet me for an un­forgettable night of passion?" tend to go un­answered. While some personals are entered jokingly, others are placed by people with a genuine interest in meeting a specific someone. 
I recently tried this method myself. While studying on the 12th floor of the library last Sunday, I noticed an extremely attractive girl with golden blonde hair sitting only a few tables away. Now, most guys will probably say, "Big deal, there's plenty of great-looking girls in the 'brare every day!" It wasn't just her looks though--she had this smile that could knock you out of your Nikes. 
Not being one to make an idiot of myself if I can help it, I quickly rejected the idea of walking up to her and saying, "Wow, you look great! Let's take a walk and get to know each other.'' I could only picture two responses to this approach: being ignored or being laughed at as everyone in the area looked on. 
So I placed a personal to her the next day with the small hope of a response and with much kidding from friends. 
I did receive a reply, though, and after a little asking around found out her name and number. At this point, I decided to go all out and call her, which was not the easiest of decisions. It's difficult to be confident calling someone when the first words out of your mouth are: "Hi! Is this Purple Sweater? I'm Curious from Flan­ner." 
I guess the stars were in the right alignment or something, because when I asked if she'd be interested in going out sometime, her answer was yes. 
Rich 
Iannelli 
Payroll Manager 
We ended up seeing a movie, one of the most reliable forms of entertainment around. Need­less to say, I had a great time and I think she enjoyed herself, too, but that's not the point of this story. Regardless of whether I ever "go out" with her again, she'll have my respect and admiration. Think about it for a second. This girl was willing to go out with someone she had never met in person, someone who first ap­proached her through a personal ad. 
For any girls out there who don't think that's so tough, how many of you "screen" prospec­tive SYR dates in the dogbook before answering "yes" or "Sorry, but I'm taking a road trip to Iowa State that weekend." In all fairness, though, guys often do the same thing. The key is to be open-minded and maybe even a little adventurous. 
Granted, walking up to someone on the quad or sending a personal are not "sure things," but they can work. In my case, while I was initially impressed by this girl's looks and smile, I was even more impressed with her per­sonality and character--and this is someone I had never met in my previous two years here. At the very worst, I made a great new friend--an accomplishment I'd be proud of any day. 
Take a chance! There's almost always that special someone you've wanted to meet, but never have. Take a small risk. The pay off can be great! 


....___BU_Y_O_B_SE_R_V_ER_C_L_A_SS_IF_IE_D_S_____....~II • -­
"TWO THUMBS UP' AWONDERFUL TIME AT THE MOVIES..: 
·<:.ltw Well~ Eben. SISKU l [.8(JU l TH( "ICMlS 
CHER·NICOLAS CAGE 
M®NSTRUCK
l·a·, 
.,.p.~ 

Carroll Aud. SMC Tues Wed
) ) 

T h u rs( 1 5, 1 6, 17) 9&1 1 $ 1 
sponsored by SMC OFF CAMPUS 
Going to USC? All Saint Mary's Students must be Ht LeMHns shuttle stop at 3:00pm on Nov. 23 or we'1J leHve without you. Plane tickets & other important info will be pHssed t:"' A n 
out then. 
STUDt NT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

(BJ(Q) ~ ~ ~ ~[H) .._, .1.. .l. ......., 
Tuesday, November 15, 1988 The Observer 


Bush seeks to minimize world financial market jitters 
Associated Press "Exchange market stability nomic adviser Martin 
is the key ...Nobody is going to Feldstein, Bush said: "the 
GULF STREAM, Fla.-peg the dollar to any existing policy in effect is the adminis­George Bush, seeking to calm currency," he said in an infor­tration policy built around world financial market fears mal meeting with reporters on policy coordination and ex­about his forthcoming the beach. change market stability... presidency, said today that he Questions about the markets' That's the policy of the admin­will continue the Reagan ad­behavior have dogged the vice istration." ministration policy of coor­president during his post­dinated intervention with U.S. election Florida beach vaca­For the past three years, the allies in exchange markets tion. The Dow Jones average of United States and its economic when major currencies rise or 30 industrials fell almost 80 allies have had a policy of coor­fall too quickly. points last week, including a 47-dinated intervention in ex­
The president-elect sought to point drop Friday that was par­change markets when major minimize the weakening of the tially triggered by fears over currencies rise or fall too dollar against the Japanese yen erosion of the dollar's value rapidly. The central banks of and German mark and the abroad. the major industrial countries plunge of the stock market Asked if he would favor buy or sell dollars, depending since his election last Tuesday, lowering the dollar against on whether they ae trying to saying "These gyrations hap­foreign currencies as has been counter a rise or a fall in its 
AP Photo

pen." suggested by his sometime eco-value. On the beach 
President-elect George Bush and his wife Barbara leave the beach in Gulf Stream, Florida Sunday, where the pair are spending a long weekend 
Bush working on senior Cabinet posts; 
unwinding at the home of investment banker William Farish.

Brady will most likely stay at Treasury 
Associated Press wants to consider four or five announce them as decisions senior cabinet choices this are made, Fuller said. Bush WASHINGTON-President­week. They said he especially already has named former 
November 13, 1988 

elect George Bush plans to con­wants to assemble his eco­Treasury Secretary James 
sider candidates this week for nomic team rapidly, which also Baker III as the new secretary 
To The Notre Dame Community: 
his senior Cabinet posts, and a is likely to include former Dep­of state. 
list of three to five names is uty Treasury Secretary Rich­Bush fueled speculation 
We would like to apologize to the entire community for 
being drawn up for each, aides ard Darman as budget chief, about appointments by inviting 
our offensive act during the Sarin Talent Show on Nov. 4,
said Monday. and Stanford University Pro­New Hampshire Gov. John 
1988. In no way did we intend for the act to be interpreted
Bush will return to Washing­fessor Michael Boskin as chief Sununu to a private dinner 
as demeaning to anyone. We merely intended to imper­
ton from a Florida vacation on White House economic adviser. Monday night at his vacation 
sonate the well known rap group Run DMC. In retrospect,
Tuesday. He is expected to an­"I think that the economic quarters. Sununu is mentioned 
we see that our impersonation succeded in little more than
nounce that Treasury Secre­team, under the circum­as a leading candidate to be 
tary Nicholas Brady, a stances, would be one you'd Bush's chief of staff. So is Ful­
angering a significant sector of the Notre Dame family. 
As a family, we should strive to understand one another,
longtime adviser and friend, want to pay attention to early ler. 
will remain in his job after Jan. on," said Robert Teeter, a co­Bush also did nothing to 
but in order to understand we must first be educated. 
20, when the Bush administra­director of the transition with dampen speculation that the 
Unfortunately, the sheltered environments many Notre 
tion begins. Craig Fuller. White House would be run by 
Dame students come from do not afford that education. 
Leaders of Bush's transition Bush has no timetable for a power-sharing triumverate· 
Hopefully others will learn from our mistake and will use 
team said the president-elect making appointments, and will of Sununu, Fuller and Teeter. 

MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an informal reception to discuss two-yearjob opportunities for 1989 graduates as 
Financial Analysts 
•
In Investment Banking 

Thursday, November 17, 1988 7:00 p.m.-9:00p.m. Alumni Room Morris Inn 
that knowledge to better understand humankind. 
Sincerely, The members of the act 
Paid Advertisement 







E&J GALLO WINERY 

November 16, 1988 8 pm-10 pm 

Location: Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
ALL J\tiAJORS WELCOME 
Anyone interested in discovering career opportunities in Sales/ Sales Management with E&J Gallo Winery are invited to attend. 
sponsored by tl1e Marketing Club 

--~-----~-~~ ~--­
Tuesday, November 15, 1988
page 4 The Observer 

So You Can Own AMacintosh®! 
Before you go home this Thanksgiving, head over to your campus resale center for aStudent Loan-To-Own application. Break the news to your parents about the student deal of a lifetime! It's an opportunity for you to get an Apple Macintosh -the computer you really want for only $:)0.00 a month. 
With your parents' signature, you can 0\\11 a Macintosh computer. Apple's Student Loan:Ih-Own Program makes buying a Macintosh as easy as using one. 
Simply pick up a loan application at the address listed below, or Call XOO-X.-)1-LOAN to receive one in the maiL 
YIHir parents only need to fill out the application, sign it and send it. If they qualify. they'll receive acheck in just 
. a ft>w weeks for you to purchase your Macintosh. 
The big break is you don't have to prove financial hardship or offer collateraL Best of all, the loan payments can he spread over as many as 10 years. 
Isn't this just the break you've been 
looking for? 

0 I<Jill! .~pk• CompUier, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are l't'gislered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. 
.....· .... . • . ·.·Hwei;aja;e+-· 
0 •••• 
. d ... I I I 1 w:-· 
. e. 
Macintosh·SE · 
Introducing Apple's Student Loan-To-Own Program 

CONTACT: 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

------------------------~------~------~~--------­
Tuesday, November 15, 1988 The Observer pageS 

Catholic bishops to speak out on issues 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The nation's Roman Catholic bishops on Monday recommitted them­selves to speaking out fear­lessly on public issues in the new Bush administration while grudgingly bowing to Vatican intervention on a church mat­ter. 
The President of the National Conference of Catholic Bis­hops, Archbishop John May of St. Louis, opened the group's annual meeting by con­gratulating President-elect George Bush on last week's vic­tory. 
But he quickly added that the bishops, convinced despite criticism that there's no such thing as "too much social con­sciousness," would continue to tackle heated public issues as 
r·---------·-----------------------------------------~ 
1 I 21 fiT LAST ]ON! 
Love, 
Mom, 'Dad, !l\!Jbin, 1\fnee, !l\!Jnnie, Lisa, (jrandma and Mo[asses 
~-W.IRQ).I-.U~~>.tliS!t:)aii!C,~C<~'*"(>":iljt:(}~~,.ti(•~•!•K~D;:.l®I~K.-<#IIIM-!i'Jll!liR••••• 
Attention Juniors Interested In Working On JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND: 
Check committee you wish to work on below and bring 
this application to Junior class office by Tuesday, 
November 15, 5:00 pm. (Located on 2nd floor, 
FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their future. 
DR. ANTHONY S. SERIANNI 
College of Science 
"AN APPRAISAL OF SCIENCE AS A PROFESSION" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1988 7:30P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A Reception will follow the lecture. 

they did repeatedly during the Reagan administration. 
"Our voices will not be heard only in praise and apprecia­tion," he said. 
May and other leaders of the bishops' conference played down talk of new controversy between them and the Vatican, but most of the discussion at Monday's session revolved around two issues: 
-A last-minute intervention by the Vatican that will keep the group from voting this week on guidelines for resolving dis­putes with theologians, a docu­ment several years in prepara­tion. 
-The bishops' own proposed rejection of a draft Vatican document that seems to greatly limit the theological authority of conferences such as the American bishops'. 
LaFortune.) 
Committees: 

1
. Presidential Dinner 

2. 
Brunch 

3. 
Communications 


4. 
Welcoming Reception 

5. 
Mass 

6. 
Hall Party Name Address Phone 



7. Academic Workshop (Circle One) 
a. 
Engineering "b. Business Administration 

c. 
Arts and Letters 

d. 
Science 


8. Hospitality and Hotels 
Any Questions? Call Karen Croteau X1884 Chris Boron X2905 
AP Photo President Reagan met in the White House Oval Office meeting that human rights will continue to be a source Monday with Soviet Nobe~ Peace Prize-winning of disagreement between the United States and So­physicist Andrei Sakharov. Reagan stated at the viet Union. 
Quayle to resign Senate seat early 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Viee President-elect Dan Quayle an­nounced Monday he intends to resign his Senate seat in time to give his successor a jump in seniority over the new class of lawmakers being sworn in Jan. 3. 
Quayle said he had "no recommendations" to make on a successor when he met privately with Indiana Gov. Robert Orr, who will make the appointment. "I evaluated everyone from top to bottom," he told reporters afterward. 

Orr, a Republican, stressed that the decision would be his to make, and said he and Quayle "talked about a whole lot of people. That's confiden­tial." 
The list of possible succes­sors includes Rep. Dan Coats, a former aide to Quayle who holds the House seat once oc­cupied by Quayle; Indiana House Speaker Paul Man­nweiler and Mitchell Daniels, a former White House political director with close ties to Sen. Richard Lugar. 
Other names mentioned in­clude Marion County Prosecu­tor Steve Goldsmith; Lt. Gov. John Mutz, who was defeated 
in the election for governor last 
week, and Indianapolis Mayor William Hudnut. 
Others whose names have cropped up include former In­diana Secretary of State Edwin Simcox, one-time Environmen­tal Protection Administration chief William Ruckelshaus and Rep. Dan Burton. 
Quayle's wife, Marilyn, has passed up several opportuni­ties to say whether reports of her interest in the seat are true, although the vice president­elect told reporters that she in­tends to issue a statement shortly. 
Speculation on a new Indiana senator picked up Monday as President-elect George Bush said in Florida that he had "no specifics yet" on the duties Quayle will hold in the new ad­ministration. 
Bush said his campaign pledge that Quayle will head a space council stands. 
Officials also announced that Quayle would sit on on Tuesday when Bush meets with visiting West German Chancellor Hel­mut Kohl. · 

.....--1-Q-age-~a-y-le-·-w-ill_....p_,la_y_r_e_d-~c-~-d-r-~-j;-··r~~-----------------­new administration, experts say 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Dan Quayle 
is likely to be a "man on the 
outside" in George Bush's 
White House following a vice 
presidential candidacy that 
began in a furor but settled into 
obscurity, experts say. 
Encumbered by his image as 
a political novice who needed 
a bevy of professional handlers 
to survive early campaign con­
troversies, Quayle enters a 
Bush administration in which 
he has few intimates or allies. 
Relegated in the campaign to small towns and safe GOP areas, Quayle as vice president is likely to be given a tradi­tional ceremonial role-going to political gatherings and state funerals-rather than the advi­sory role that Walter Mondale and even Bush had, some scholars feel. 
"Dan Quayle is going to set the vice presidency back about a decade or more. One thing that political scientists have been talking about is just how much the vice presidency has grown . . . With Quayle, it's just going to retreat to the old days of politics and funerals," said Ryan Barilleaux, a profes­sor of political science at Miami University in Oxford, 


Detectives search for more bodies in California 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif.­Detectives armed with steel probes found a sixth body Mon­day in the yard of a Victorian rooming house run by a mis­sing landlady who had told a social worker she took in el­derly boarders as a way to repay society. 
The sixth corpse-uniden­tified like the others-was dis­covered shortly after digging resumed Monday morning. It was "wrapped in some type of clothing," and buried in a shal­low grave under a shed, said police Sgt. Bob Burns. The cause of death was not imme­diately known. 
On Monday, 200 spectators watched from behind police Ohio, who studies the Ameri­can presidency. 
Bush rarely mentioned his 41-year-old running mate during the campaign. When asked, Bush employed the stock lines that Quayle would "make an outstanding vice president" and had been "tem­pered by steel" as he weat­hered the early furor over his military service, academic record and personal life. 
The president-elect told reporters Quayle would have access to the same papers, in­formation and intelligence that is available to the president. But he would go no further· in describing what assignments he would give Quayle. 
Quayle says Bush has talked to him about heading a space council, and that he assumes he'll have a role in the admin­istration's anti-drug efforts. "I will be a very close adviser to the president," Quayle said. 
But that's not the way every­one sees it. 
Both Bush and Mondale came to their vice presidential campaigns with substantial reputations and were able to place key staffers in important positions in the respective presidential campaigns, Baril­leaux notes. 
"Dan Quayle has contributed nothing in the way of staff to the Bush campaign. He doesn't have his own big reputation on Capitol Hill . . . Dan Quayle has no friends in a Bush White House except George Bush," Barilleaux says. 

"They're going to give him a lot of window dressing, a space council, drug task force, but he's going to be a man on the outside ... not a man who's going to be consulted in a crisis, except on a pro forma basis." ~ i
No checkmarks, pleP ~e 
The Observer I Jennifer O'Donald 
But Eddie Mahe Jr.. a GOP consultant who worked with the Sophomores Mik~ Soyka, Paul .._,epnan, and Warren Palmore (left to Bush campaign, says Bush is right) spend a quiet evening in Keenan Hall Monday with their course likely to give Quayle a more selection guides, as they prepare to spend hours standing in line waiting active role in the administra­to checkmart~ourses and handing in registration forms at Stepan Center. tion than he had in the cam­paign. 


"Vindication demands that. Both of them will want to prove how right the decision was," Mahe says. 
Democrats portrayed Quayle during the campaign as a lightweight, a man with little or no legislative accomplish­ments, untested and un­qualified to be a heartbeat away from the presidency. Even some members of Quayle's own party were dis­mayed at Bush's choice. 
Quayle didn't help his case by making a number of cele­brated gaffes during the cam­paign. 
Grand Opening for the LaFortune Microcomzputer Facility
I 

Wednesday, November }6, 1988 Room 16 of the LaFort e tudent Center 

3:00p.m. 
")>bon Cutting Ceremony 
3:15p.m. Trese~t~tion..of Faculty Wortfst\tioh,lrogram Grant from\Ap~le Computer to Pre'siden hJall~y
l,vy•: \ 

3:30-4:15 p.m. Refresnments m the Foyer / 1~nd Re~~hration for Drawing




4:7. I J 
/Drawi;.g for Prizes 
lease join ,the Office of University Computing in celebrating the Grand Opening of its most recent m(crocomputer facility. 
lines as investigators worked lliiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ at the grounds of the home. Authorities say there could be eight bodies buried. 
Burns said police are still searching for the landlady, Dorothea Montalvo Puente, 59. 
burns said invesugators were told she ran a board and care home eight or nine years ago about eight blocks away, and authorities were interview­ing tenants and neighbors there. There were no immedi­ate plans to dig at that prop­erty, Burns added. 
Authorities issued an all­points bulletin for Puente, who disappeared Friday after detectives interviewed her for several hours and released her for lack of evidence. 
Authorities believe the vic­tims, apparently all low­income elderly people and all residents of the eight-room Vic­torian home downtown, were killed for their Social Security checks. 
for 

:.·.._;.~.'...:..·· ... :.·
'·':\:_-:·:· 

liTh: Prime of miss 
=:f,!f! J~~~n BrodieII.,::.;~· 
bg Jag Presson Rllen from the novel bg muriel Spark directed bg Julie Jensen 
nOVEmBER 11. IS. and 16 monDAY. TUESDRY. and WEDnESDAY 
O"Langhlin Ruditorium 1 to 10 p.m_ 
For ioformalioo, please call or yfsil: CDTHOffice, 1110 moreao, smc 26.f-.fli.f0 
.·, ...... a•• ~ • .• ·~..,. t .. ~'\ .. ·'!A ..... ..-. 4 .. 9 •• ,~ "' ........ .r .....,. ........................._ ... _ .... ~ ......... _.,.:•.••,. ...,.
.. .. . '· . 

a ew.. a a .a nc.a c a
-• 
Tuesday, November 15, 1988 

The Observer page 7 

Dots 
continued from page 1 
where are we going to?" she said. 
About 20 students in UCAM taped the dots to walks around campus between midnight and 
2:30 a.m. Monday and picked them up at 4 p.m., Herold said. 
UCAM is a national organi­zation with about 80 chapters at colleges and universities across the nation. The organi­zation's main branch is in Washington, D.C. 
Krier said he decided to form a chapter at Notre Dame after reading a pamphlet at Vander­bilt University, where his bro­ther was a UCAM officer. 

Herold and Krier formed the group at Notre Dame this fall with the help of Mike Affleck, coordinator of peace program­ming and education at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. The group's 20 members range from freshmen to graduate stu­dents, Krier said. 
"UCAM has no one, set poli­tical opinion. It has mixed members who are highly motivated," Herold said, add­ing that most people are inter­ested in the group "once they find out it's not ultra-liberal." 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
Last night Goldrick stressed the need for students to get to know their professors on a more casual basis outside the classroom because, he said, it is often difficult for professors to interact with every student in a class of hundreds. 
The univeristy has had a dif­ficult time developing the extra-curricular academic life on campus, Malloy said. 
"Since much of our day is devoted to the classroom ...we opportunity to be involved." 
The interaction of students and faculty on a casual basis allows for the "the looseness of exchange of ideas that you don't get in the classroom," said Morris, an associate pro­fessor of philosophy. 
"My idea of classroom teach­ing is that the disease in the classroom ought to be con­tagious. You want to take it back with you to the dorm." 
Morris said he especially en­joyed a viewing of clips from Woody Allen films and a dis­cussion of the philosophical and religious questions of the films with Flanner and Pasquerilla 

Q!~S!.1 
drug testing before employ­
ment, periodically during an­
nual physicals if there is 
reasonable cause to suspect 
drug use and after pn accident. 
The drugs covered by the tests 
are marijuana, cocaine, 
opiates, amphetamines and 
PCP. 

The random-testing provi­
sion, which requires that at 
least 50 percent of a given 
workforce be tested during a 
single year, has attracted the 
loudest protests from the uni­
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
PRE HOLIDAY SHOPPING 
BAZAAR 
GREAT SAVINGS ON (JNIQ(JE QUALITY ITEMS SOME ONE OF A KIND 
SCARVES•••JEWELRY•••CLOTHING LEATHER & EELSKIN PURSES, BRIEFCASES & ACCESSORIES 
SKIN CARE•••COMPLETE NAILKITS•••MAKE-OP SETS "MAKE YOUR SELECTIONS EARLY" 
PART OF YOUR SPENDINGS WILL BE DONATEDTOTHESCHOOL WHERE: LAFORTUNE STUDENT CTR...ROOM I 08 WHEN: MONDAY, 11114 -11119 TIME: 10:00 Afv'l -7:00 PM (SATURDAY, 8:00 Afv'l -12:00 
NOON) "EVERYONE IS INVITED" MC & VISA ACCEPTED "TREASURERS" UNLIMITED 


tend to think of the dorm as a West residents. ons. They argue that such tests place to escape and get away constitute an invasion of from that routine. To present Fr. Oliver Williams, an in­privacy and have minimal opportunities for intellectual residence hall fellow at Flan­benefit. 
development in that kind of a ner, said he is optomistic about climate is not always so easy," the future of the hall fellow pro­
said Malloy. gram. 
Thomas Morris, a fellow for "We're just beginning this both Flanner and Pasquerilla but I think it can be very suc­West Halls, expressed his en­cessful. It really does enhance thusiasm for the fellow pro­the intellectual atmoshpere (on gram and said he "rellished the campus)," Williams said. 

The Northern Trust Company 
Chicago, Illinois Mary Blackett, Vice President-Trust Department Phil Delaney, Vice President-Commercial Banking invite you to learn of prime 1989 job opportunities Tonight at 7:00p.m. in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn 
You dotit need yourparents'money 
to buyaMacintosh. 




Just theirsignature 
It's never been difficult for students to convince for you in just afew weeks. Which gives you and your parents plenty oftime their parents of the need for aMacintosh® computer There's no collateral. No need to prove financial to decide just who pays for it all. at school. hardship. No application fee. , 
Persuading them to write the check, however, is Best ofall, the loan payments can be spread over 
·~ 

another thing altogether. as many as 10 years. lntroducingApple's 
Which is why Apple created the Student Loan-to­Student LOan-to-own Program Own Program. An ingenious loan program that makes buying aMacintosh as easy as using one. Notre Dame Computer Store 
Simply pick up an application at the location 
Computer Center/Math Building
listed below, or call800-831-LOAN. All your parents need to do is fill it out, sign it, and send it. •••••~ If they qualify, they'll receive acheck 
©198!! Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. 
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, November 15, 1988 
The challenge of Catholicism 
Church teaching is tough. To comply we care too much about external obeying our due superiors, sacrificing another", or "Work hard and enjoy 
with it demands effort, struggle, self-things--about our G.P.A., our career, time and money to help the less for-life", or anything of the kind. They 
sacrifice, and pain. Christ called it the our image, our possessions, the esteem tunate, and so on. And then we get up-were: "What do you seek?" and then, 
narrow way. It is ironic though that others hold us in--and too little about set. Repression! Paternalism! Aut-"come and see." The first apostles (to 
while knowing full well that the way to the bigger things: about righteousness horitarianism ! Narrow mindedness! whom these words were addressed) 
any form of human excellence or any (i.e. not the pharasaical kind), about Condescension! Maybe. But maybe not. had the humility to admit they had not 
worthwhile achievement is narrow, we friendship with God, and about authen-No one ever said that being a real found what they were seeking, the 
are somehow disconcerted and an-tic solidarity with one another. Catholic was easy. If they did they were sense of inquisitiveness and the daring 
noyed when we discover this is the case either very naive or very deceitful or to keep looking, and the courage to 
with our faith. And what it promises is But we will go to great lengths, make both. But no one ever said that a 3.8, carry their search through to the end. 
so much greater---eternal life, eternal great sacrifices of time and energy, or a spot on the football team, or a job And the world has not been the same 
peace, eternal justice, eternal joy, and perform noble feats of self-discipline with Solomon Brothers was easy either-since. 
a very real participation in these right and self-denial, to improve our grades, -and no one would believe them if they 
now. excel in some intramural or inter-did. For those who have tried, being a Being a faithful Catholic is tough: so 
collegiate sport, or some extracur-full-fledged ·catholic is simple--one is anything worthwhile. But the grace
Thomas D'Andrea ricular activity, or to tie down that job knows what one has to do--it i!Mot easy. of God is always present and that is 
interview or get that summer intern­always help enough. And it's not just
inside out 

ship. We know what is required to But let's not condemn it or reject it something for priests and monks and 
exceed ourselves, and we value the until we've really tried to live it--all of nuns. Christ addressed all when he said 
The problem with our faith is that we lives and example of those who triumph it (since for those who have tried being seek first the kingdom of God and his do not see the pay-off so quickly, and in the contest. a lukewarm Catholic is a pretty lousy justice, and all good things will be we have not yet crossed to the other And then someone tells us that to be thing). Then, if we exercise a little pa­added besides. Have we even begun to shore where the pay-off will be com­a real Catholic requires certain elemen­tience, nothing good comes without a respond to this challenge and live as plete. So we tend to slack off: we grab tary acts of self-discipline and self­wait, we can see if it delivers what it Catholics with the character and con­at things, often good things, that seem sacrifice: getting to Mass weekly, promises. We can see if it is the most viction of a Saint Peter or Saint Paul? more immediate and tangible, but going to confession every once in a intensely satisfying and fulfilling way Let's hold off the complaints until then. which do not fully satisfy and leave us while, exercising restraint in things of being in the world, and through the often more frustrated than before. sexual, obeying certain eminently world, as it claims to be. Thomas D'Andrea is a graduate stu­
It is a problem of emphasis and reasonable laws concerning our con­The first words spoken by Christ in dent in philosophy and is a regular proportion; like the Pharisees of old, duct toward others, praying daily, his public ministry were not "Love one Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Students should be open to honor code 
Dear Editor: 
Gregory Volan in his column of Nov. 2, makes the point that the Honor Code works at other schools because students respect it. Respect is precisely what is needed for the Notre Dame Honor Code at this time. Respect means giving the Code a fair chance and accepting the responsibility of educating oneself about it. Volan insists that most stu­dents are "simply against the idea of an honor code." We cannot agree with this statement, for the idea of an honor code is simply the upholding of an in­dividual's personal integrity. What many students are not in support of is probably Volan's second point, the way in which it was implemented. 
The Code is continuing to evolve, and it is our hope that it will become some­thing that will help, not hinder, the Notre Dame academic community. If, at the end of this experimental period, students do not feel that it is a benefit, 
--r--~ 

J WHAT I'M SUG­• G/35TING, Ml<. " PRESiotNT, IS 
7HATWAWE3N COU/36& Nc&f)S 
(}(JJ51P& H&tP. .. 
they will decide upon its fate. So they 
do have the final say. 
We fully recognize the importance of 
student educations about the Code. This 
experimental period is one of educa­
tion. In the Academic Council meeting 
in April 1987, an unopposed voice vote 
approved this experimental period, 
which "will serve to publicize and 
cause awareness of the Honor Code. It 
will be a catalyst for discussion and will 
educate the campus community about 
the positive and negative aspects." 
We recognize that more education is needed, not just for students, but for the entire community. The University Honor Code Committee is currently compiling a handbook explaining the Code, and it will be distributed in the spring semester. Any suggestions and comments are welcomed by this com­mittee. Assessment letters will also be distributed to some participants in Honor Code sections. 
In reference to Mr. Volan's insistence that the Code is inconsistent with the social life at the University, our response is simply that the Honor Code had to start somewhere. Obviously, since it has encountered resistance already, thrusting it upon students in every aspect of their lives would have been a mistake. The codes at Haver­ford, Brigham Young University, Washington and Lee, and the military academies which govern all aspects of student life are based upon established traditions. We do not have the neces­sary foundation of tradition. We have to try an honor code and give it a chance before a tradition can possibly be es­
tablished. 

During the next few years, students will be educated about the Code so that they can responsibly decide for them­selves. We urge students to try to keep an open mind about the Honor Code and not to be prejudiced one way or the other until they understand it. Obvious­ly, Gregory Volan has tried to come to terms with the Honor Code and has made an educated decision about it. We thank him and respect him for it. 
Kristen Stamile Michael Shinnick University Academic Honor Code Committee Nov. 8, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
FOR RI3{RJ)ITJNG ON£3 OF OUR. !?&aNT GRAJJS GOOD, SHARON, GOOD/ 5TUPl3NTS.' tv& 
15 NOW WOR.J<JNG FOR. A MAXR NOW mB YOUR lbG 
N&WAN/l66R£5­
S/V/3MARK&nNG 


Viewpoint would lik to occasionall highlight quote from faculty mem bers, students an readers. So if you o someone you kno says something in tellectually stimulat ing, brilliantly funn or clearly controver sial, sent the quot to Viewpoint, P.O Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Quote of the Day 
"I don't know what your destiny will be, but one thing I know: the only ones among you who will be really happy are those who have sought and found how to serve." 
Albert Schwietzer 
Editorial Board Operations Board


=~Ihe Observer-.. 
-== 

Edrlor·m·Chrel Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John Oxnder Managmg Edrtor Chns Donnelly Advert1smg Des1gn Manager Molly K>llen News Ed1tor Reg1s Cocc1a Advert1smg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students ol the Umvers11y ol News Ed1tor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Sh1lls Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1n1 Mary's College II does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es ol V1ewpomt Ed1tor Man Slaughter · Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway the adm1n1s1rahon of e1ther >nsliluhon The news IS reported as accurately and obJeCIIvely as Sports Ed1tor Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hard1man poss>ble Uns1gned ed11onals represent the op1mon ol the ma1onty ol the Ed1lonal Board Accent Ed1tor Beth Healy Graphrc Arts Manager Marga Bruns Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews ol the" authors Column Sam/ Mary's Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele space >S available to all members of the commumty and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng Photo Ed1tor Michael Moran Opln>ons on campus. through leiters. IS encouraged 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Founded November 3,1966 



Accent 
Tuesday, November 15, 1988 page 9 


EXPANSION PROJECTS NEVER MATERIALIZED 
LAURA LINDNER accent writer 
T 
he Notre Dame campus is re­garded as one of the most beauti­ful and hallowed college campuses in the nation, in terms of its architec­ture, its landscape, and its many statues. Its character is largely the product of a comprehensive plan for campus development published by Professor Francis W. Kervick in 1920 under the direction of University President James Burns. 
Kervick's conception of an appro­priate campus architectural style and land use influenced the physical de­velopment of Notre Dame for 35 years after his projections. Since his ideas became reality, several other plans for the physical and academic development of campus have been proposed, one of which had the poten­tial to change the nature of the uni­versity entirely. 
In the 1950s the Queen of Scholars Graduate Campus was proposed to enhance the post-graduate dimension of the university. Each school was designed in a different architectural style, from Greek and Roman to Medieval and contemporary. 
It was to be located immediately north of St. Joe's Lake and included a 100-foot-high white marble column, surmounted by a statue of Our Lady Queen of Scholars, and surrounded by three concentric marble colonnades encompassing statues of past and future great world educators. 
The Queen of Scholars Graduate Campus was also to include a graduate administration building, a theater and gymnasium, a church, a women's dormitory, a visiting Bac­helor faculty living quarters building including transient hotel accommoda­tions for 100 people, a sports area, and a faculty housing and club area. 
The proposal provided more than an architectural design for six co­educational graduate schools; it had 
1-\E'{! W\1r..T's 1\-\\5 SNFf

Calvin 
IN Ill'{ SOUP?.' 'l'ECC~\1! 
\S 1\\\S RICE. ?./f' \T \it--0

and 
BEllER NOT BE! IN t-\'1 SOUP.'
Hobbes 
l \lt>.Tt. RICE! 

Bill Watterson 

UNDEVELOPED 
AREA 


FACULTY 
HOUSING 
AND 

CLUB AREA 

The Queen of Scholars Graduate Campus was completely abandoned as being too ambitious. Each of the six graduate schools was to have its own distinct architectural scheme and the entire 
the potential to revolutionize the graduate program at Notre Dame. This potential was embodied in the International Queen of Scholars Com: mission. 
The Commission was set up to en­hance the relationship of Notre Dame to the entire academic world through a variety of programs. It was to an­nually award ten monetary grants of $5,000 each (not adjusted for infla­tion) to selected scholars or educators throughout the world who contributed most during the year to the fields of scholarship and educa­tion. 
The selection of a scholar or educa­tor to receive one of these awards entitled the recipient, upon his death, to burial in the crypt beneath the scholar's shrine. The most distin­guished of the recipients was also to be honored by having a statue of the individual placed in one of the niches of the depressed concentric marble colonnades upon his death. 

The Queen of Scholars proposal provided for the consolidation of all of the Order of Holy Cross Commu­nity activities in a new group of buildings to be located to the north and west of St. Mary's Lake. 
These three buildings and campus areas --the undergraduate campus, the Queen of Scholars Graduate Campus, and the Holy Cross Commu­nity area --were to be entirely auton­omous in their own settings and ad­ministration. Each was designed to have the potential to expand in future years. 
It seems fairly obvious why the Queen of Scholars Graduate Campus never became a reality. The Lady Queen of Scholars shrine would have competed with "Our Lady of the Golden Dome," and a Midwest graduate program would have tran­scended anything offered by Harvard. 
Given the goals of this project, it is 
ground, Grace and Flanner, were the only buildings to see reality. 
ww, 

<:PS\1, WAIT '11L I 1£\.L 
'I PJ£R'iONE fl,T SC.\.\OOL 'tll\t>.T WE Hf>.D FOR 0\~1\\ER! 
Observer Graphic/ Annelte Rowland 
development was located north of St. Joe's Lake, as is indicated in the Illustration above and map at left. 
Photo courtesy of University Archives 
evident that a graduate campus of this magnitude would have been financially unfeasible as well as too idealistic in terms of its international aspirations and architectural design. The solidarity of each graduate school caused by its unitary design would also have undermined interac­tion between the students and faculty. 
It is also very possible that the university would have evolved into two very distinct campuses and that the graduate program would render the undergraduate program insig­nificant, given the former's ties to the international intellectual community. This development would definitely clash with Notre Dame's traditions and values. 
The construction of the "Mod Quad" was the product of a $52 mil­lion development program from 1967 to 1972 called "SUMMA: Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge." Aimed at bringing new distinction to the university, one of the objectives of this comprehensive fund-raising ef­fort was to allocate $9 million for the development of residence and dining facilities. 
The committment to residentiality and the need for new dorms cul­minated in a series of architectural proposals, one of which was the 1967 Ellerbe Projection. Ellerbe As­sociates designed an architectural scale model for a new quadrangle to be created north of the Memorial Library. 
Five new high-rise student residence halls were tentatively projected to form a semicircle around a church of contemporary motif de­signed to meet the growing liturgical needs and to serve a Catholic col­legiate community. Only two of the 11-storey skyscraper dormitories were built, Flanner and Grace Tow­ers. 
The failure to construct the addi­
tional three high-rise residence halls 
and the proposed Cardinal O'Hara 
Memorial Chapel was probably due to 
the failure of the SUMMA campaign. 
Nonetheless, the "Mod Quad" retains 
some of the character of the Ellerbe 
projection, and the same architects 
later went on to design the Joyce 
Athletic and Convocation Center. 
It is evident that parts of the Notre Dame campus may have been very different if these plans had been im­plemented. Our world-renowned campus may have featured a second church and an incredible graduate program. 

Tuesday, November 15, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 




Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287~ 
ACADEMICtiUSINESS TYPING 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Yogi's Yogurt, Now delivering-Moo. Tues & Thura. nights. Colombo Yogurt 7-9:30 call-277-4337. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST!! LARGE GOLD TONE BRACELET AT 818 GRACE ON OCT 
28. CALL ERIC AT X3883111 
HELP!! I've lost my glassas and can not see to take notes In classI Hyou've found a pair of pml<tose rimmed glasses in brown leatheriah case, please call x3782­·my G.P.A. depends on you I Thanks. 
Found: Sprint Fon Card near a phone In LaFortune. Please call x3782. 
FOUND IN NOH: one ladies watch Con­tact Katie at II 4824 
GENEROUS REWARD FOR RETURN OF TWO SMALL GOLD (SMALL DIA­MOND) RINGS LOST AT ND FOOT­BALL GAME OCT. 22, 1-. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 21~-2544. 
Helpllt somebody took by mistake a blue book bag on Friday November 11 at the South Dining Hall, around 1 p , please oontact Ueng Zhu at 283-3 52 or leave a measage to the Instil of International Peace Studies. 
FOUND: M1 of k8ya In Oak Room beloN Fall brMk. c.alt John 3443. 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 21~ 2111-7153. 
Fumlahed Roome & 2 Bedroom home neer c.arnpua.272-4130e
.................................................................. 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO. AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES­TER. 287-6389 OR 683-8889. 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT.for 110.00 a month.Cal~3476 
................................................................ 

WANTED 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS tor $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just ott N.D. Ave. Ph# 233-2342 
Full Time Nllnny 2 Young Chlldrwn ProfwealoNII Child Cere Light Houae WorloOrg~~nl:r.atloNII Slollla Excellent Set.ry & Benetti Provram Send Reaume To: Merlkay Cochran Dealgn Time P.O. Box 2027 Elkhart, IN 48515 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $1100-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrlea, All llelde. Fnae Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04-CoroNI Del Mer, CA 92825 
I need a ride to Cleveland area tor Thanks. $$$ BARB x4842 

FOR SALE 
Ia H True You Cen Buy Jeep• lor $44 thl04lllh the U.S. government? Get the facta toclayl Cell 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7318. 
TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALE! TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS PRE-STRUNG FOR $140-NICK# 1423 
'85 hobie cat 16 wlrailer,many extras call 1868 
tor sale: 1 plane tix:SB to Newark 111.22­11128-1'11 sail at cost call II 2898 or 288­
9402 
UNITED FLIGHT TICKET: THANKSGIV­ING Round trip Loa Angeles 1 0'22-1 0'28 BEST OFFER: CALL 283-3405 
USC PACKAGE!! For sale. Guys only. Call Dan at 271­0758. 
TAliVING ROUND TRIP O'HARE TO SAN FRAN. 2011>-28th $233 x3201 
FOR SALE PENN STATE GAa WITH WOMENS SKI JACKET & BIBS ALL FOR $215 CAU TRICIA 7-10 PM 284­5211 
ROUND TRIP TICKET FROM SB TO WHITE PLAINS, NY. DEC. 14 RETURN JAN. 17. CALL JIM 277-9958. 


TICKETS 

NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE CALL SHEILA--271-9365 
we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would be really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call waHer x2151 or michelle x2844 
I NEED PENN STATE TIXI PLEASE CALL # 2771 ASAPI ASK FOR BETSY 
TOP $ FOR GOOD SO. CAL SEATS. NEED 2-e. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT 
(805) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 PM 216-633-1072 FRANCIS. 
HELPI NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SII CALL 277-1513 
I need penn state ticketa. call at 277­6224. 
I need 2 USC ticketa Please help me out if you heve any. Call Bob at x3647. 
NPenn State GA's in a BIG WAYII Call Molly X1321. 
PLEASE HELP MElli I need 6 PENN STATE student tix or GA's Please call Teek at 288-9303 anytime. 
NEED penn GA x-3100 
NEED PENN ST. TIX-STUD OR GA MAGS 3322. 
................................................................ 
Need PSU tix stu or GA Call 'chris at 277-7384 
I need 5 PENN ST stud tix call X3884 or X3839 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IRISH UNCLE FINALLY OUT FOR A GAME. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S, DESPERATELY!! BIG BUCKS! CALL MIKE 3531, OR 320 KEENAN. 
NEED 7 PENN STATE GA'S CALL 284­
4336 
HELP I REAUY NEED 3 GAs to USC I Cecilia 4431 
I NEED Penn State STUDTIX 277-4842 
I WILL DO ANYTHING FOR A SET OF 4 PENN G.A.'S. MY BROTHER IS COUNTING ON ME. DONT LET HIM DOWN, CALL TIM 283-1616 
NEED PENN ST. STU. TIX. CALL JULIE X1271 
MY PARENTS ARE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM SOUTH AMERICA FOR THE GAME. I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PENN GAME THEY WILL PAY YOUR TUITION ... CALL RAUL OR CHRIST AT 1873 
Redneck& need 1 student and 2 GA's tor Penn State game. Call Bosephus at 3157 or 3155. 
New Jersey devil also needs Penn State GA's. Call Rudolph at 3155 or 3157. 
I NEED PENN ST STUDS CALL DAVE 2258 
HELPI I need a stud Penn St. tik. -call Amy 3789 
Penn State GAs needed, II 3348 $$$$$ 
NEED 3 STUD TICKETS FOR PENN STATE CALL ANNE II 3736 
DESPERATE FOR TWO (2) PENN ST TIXII PLEASE CALL DANII X3286. 
I NEED 4 PENNST TIXI X4000 MIKE 
Need two GA's tor Penn State Call Rob at # 1051 or Brian at 3234 
I NEED PENN ST TIX STUDENT AND GA CALL JOHN 1067 
I NEED PENN ST & USC TIX 272-6306 
$$$ I need Penn St. tixl Call Duane x1661 
$$$ 

MORGAN STANLEY NEEDS TIX TO PENN STATE; GA'S OR STUD'S. PLEASE CALL (800) 223-2440 EXT. 8971, FOR DAN. 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL TIM AT 412-343-4293. 
NEED 4 USC TIX PLEASE CALL 3570 
For sale: 2 Penn St stud tix. Best otter 
by 11-15 leave otter 277-7298 
I need psu tixs $$$ Kevin 1 024 
Hello. We need Penn State tix GA or student. Call 3488. Goodbye. 
PLEASE I I NEED 3 PENN ST TIX. JOE X1728 
Need Penn St. G.A. Tlx. Call Joe at 287­4561. 
PLEASEII-I NEED PENN STATE TICK­ETS!! CALL FRAN-# 2999 
I NEED PENN ST TIX CALL NED AT 1178 
I need two GA's tor the Penn State game. Please call Melissa at 283-3090 alter 7:00PM. 
WE'RE DESPERATE AND WEALTHY NEED PENN. ST. STUDS & GA'S. CALL 1649 
HELPII All I need are 2 Penn St GAs Call Tina at x4846 ANYTIME!! 
need Penn St GA. Tim3596 
NEED PENN ST STUD OR GA'SII CALL ROB 271-8323 
TWO SEASON BASKETBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL KEN 312-844-7236. 
I have ONE USC ticket tor sale. Sact. 7, Row 32, Seat 11 Call Ed at X3271 and leave otter I 
I NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S AND 1 STUD CALL JULIE 284-5440 
CHICAGO ALUMNI-WIU PAY TOP$$ FOR A PAIR OF PENN ST. GA'S CALL (312) 403-2659 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN. $$$ NO OB­JECT TERRY 1806 ANYTIME. 
PENN ST TIX FOR SALE 2 atud tlx on the 50­0K, they'rw on the 45 (Sr. Sect) c.all X3374 
It you HAPPEN to be burdened by extra Penn St. GA's In groups of 2's or 3's, call Pete x1053 and let him help you out. 
I NEED 2 G.S. PENN ST. TIX.--WILL PAY BIG $$$.-CALL 277-2506 AFTER 6 
I NEED 7 PENN ST. GA'S because there's this girt and ... Oh just call Tim at*2647$$$ 
I need 1 Penn St stud tick Rob 277-0548 
HELPII'M DESPERATE II NEED 3 PENN TICKETS CAU MARY 3782 ANYTIME I 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S? LUIGI'S BACK CALL 1391 
Need one Penn St. student or GAl Holly x2956 
SELLING PENN ST. STUD TIX LEAVE OFFER '4814, CHRISTINE 
DESPERATELY NEED 8 PENN ST GA'S CALL TODD AT 1406 OR 1409 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 PENN STTIX CALL JOHN AT X4384 
OF COURSE I NEED PENN STATE TIX 4 G.A.'s and 1 Stud. Torn Varnum x3267 
HELPII I NEED 1 PENN ST. STUDENT TICKET. MY SISTER WANTS TO SEE NO KILL ST. CALL MARK iC1937 
PLEASE I NEED PENN TICKETS, GA'S OR STUDENTS. $$ NO OBJECT. PLEASE CAU DAVID AT 2275 
Please sell me your Penn St. tix-Stud or GA-Jen 1268 
Hi I Are you from Iowa ? No ? Well I am and I need 6 Penn State G.A.'s tor some Iowans. So help me out and sell me your tickets-Go watch the game at Coach's or somewhere... Pat at 272-5848. 
PENN. ST. TIX FOR SALEI 2 G.A.'s c.all Man II 3610 
Will trade 2 USC tx tor 2 Penn St GAs. Call John at 271-0129(1eave message) 
HELPII Need 2 USC Tix Badly Call Rich 1461 or John 1073 
HELP HELP HELP NEED 1 PENN ST. STUD BILL x4306 
ROCKIN' RENTS FROM MILWAUKEE NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A-'5-CALL LAURA AT II 4419 $$$$$$ 
NEED 2 STU TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL CAF AT 2364 IF SELLING 
FOR THE LAST 3 YRS. MY FRIENDS FROM PENN ST. HAVE GOTTEN A LAUGH OUT OF THE PSU-ND FOOT­BALL GAME. NOW.IN MY SENIOR 
YEAR, THEY WANT TO COME OUT FOR THE GAME. PLEASE LET ME GET THE LAST LAUGH AND SELL ME 3 TIX. WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$. CALL ROLAND AT x3828. 
ONE PENN ST. GA FOR SALE BEST OFFER x414~indy 
I need Penn St. GA's call Mike at 277­1503 
SEUING 2 USC PLANE & GAME TIX. CALL 271-9885. $NEGOTIABLE. 
NEED 8 USC TIX. CAU 2761. 
YOU NEED MONEY, I NEED PENN STATE GA'S. CALL 2448. 
HELPII NEED 2 PENN STATE TIX. MY BROTHER IS COMING IN. CALL EILEEN 
*2615 
NEED SEVERAL PENN ST TIX!I CALL 284-5047 MISSY 
2 PENN STATE TIX WITH w-END RENTAL OF 2-BDRM. HOME NEAR CAMPUS, 272-e306. 
NEED 1 STUD. PENN STATE. 3860. 

PERSONALS 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tatty $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338. 
$$$$$ PENN STATE TIX WANTED GA OR STUD TIX CALL 234-1048 .... jen. 
UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-38811 
HEY SENIORS ... Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell Going to an SYR is hell. You and I, we both know that, The Christmas Fonnal is where it's at. 
Be sure to sign-up before you leave for Thanksgiving ... HO 
HO 
HO 

Chrlatmu FormaL. Christmas Fonnal ... 
Christmas Formal... 
Be thhere on Dec. 2 
Can anyone give me a ride to Cincinnati tor Thanksgiving Break? Please call Jen­nifer at x2128. 
MATH TUTOR-234-3678. 
HEY-IF YOU WERE AT HASBROOK'S AND ROONEY'S TOWNHOUSE FOR THE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION ON 1115 (SATURDAY) AND YOU KNOW WHO SWIPED OUR REMOTE CON­TROL FOR THE T.V., CALL US AT277­7280 OR WE'LL NEVER HAVE THE SAME CROWD OVER AGAIN. IF YOU HAD A LOT OF FUN LIKE WE DID, PLEASE HELP US OUT OR WE'LL LOSE THE SHIRTS OFF OF OUR BACKS TRYING TO GET ANOTHER ONE .... CALL US. 
Needed 2 Penn State Tix call 284-5545 
"John Bleat Ia a male alut." -T.C. 
24 hour Student Loung is OPENIII Lo­cated in the OaK Room South Dining HallIll 
Cincinnati anyone? Need ride lor break. Will pay $$$. Call Jen # 2550 
please sell your penn state ticket; either stud or Ga call kristie 2558 
RIDE NEEDED: TO WASHINGTON D.C AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK, CALL CHRISTY AT 284-5148 SHARE $$$1 
I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y.C AREA go 11­22 ret 11-27 will share exp call Peter x2124 
FREE BEERI(or Cash$) tor 1 PENN STATE tik. PLEASE call Brian at x17141 
CONSIDERING GRADUATE SCHOOL? QUESTIONS CAN BE ANSWERED AT GRADUATE SCHOOL NITE TUESDAY, NOV. 15, 1988 THEODORE$ 7-9 P.M. 
I nood a ride to exit 17 on the PA turnpike(or anywhere close, even Pn­tsburgh exn would be ok)Piease call Beth at X2964. I will share expenses! 
WANT TO SEE THE WORLD? GO ON THE SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLDlll VISIT 15 COUNTRIES IN ASIA AND EUROPE, STUDY IN INDIA AND GET 16 CREDITS FAU OF 1989. GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING .... 7:00 PM WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 16 MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. 
AUDITIONS tor the Feb. 22-25 produc­tion of the musical, "Simon" will be held at Washington Hall on Nov. 29-30 from 6-9:30. Sign up tor an audition time beforehand In the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune Questions should ba diracted to Rob Mette at # 3660. 
I SEE IT ... but... ILLUSION IS REALITY Male Stripper and 3-0 Woman? Delusion Allusion Illusion Stuart and Lori 
Pm CLUB THANKSGIVING BUS SIGNU HELD OVER TONIGHT AT 7 
P.M. IN LAFO ARST FLOOR. COSTS 
180. LEAVES TUESDAY AND RETURNS SUNDAY. QUESTIO MIKE OR KEVIN AT 3322. 
PITT CLUB BUS SIGNUPS 
CONSIDERING GRADUATE SCHOOL? GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT 
TUESDAY' NOVEMBER 15 THEODORES ' 7-9 PM 
DO YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT GRADUATE SCHOOL? WE HAVE THE ANSWERS II 
NOVEMBER 15 AT THEOOORES 7:0G-9:00 P.M. 
RITA: 
The Fool's very thirsty: will you get him a baer? H so, please leave # to place order e best datetime. 233307 
P.S. Don't reply next week: be away. 
NEED RIDE TO NYOWESTCKTR FOR THANKSGIVING CAN LEAVE TUES & RETURN FLEXIBLE CALL PAUL X-1414 
SOPHOMORES 
SOHPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT 
This Wed. at Univ. Park East Go with 
your class to see IRON EAGL U2 
RATTLE & HUM, CRYING IN THE DARK 
BIRD or BIG (all at 9:30) or ERNEST 
SAVES X-MAS (at 9:45) Buses will pro­
vide transportation-Meet at main circle 
at 8:45 Tickets available at the theatre 
or at Lafortune Into Desk tor $3.50 
SHANNON THIS IS YOUR MAIL FOR THE WEEK. 
Need ride to Mpt&St. Paul tor Thanks­giving. Can leave Monday night. Please call 284-4430. 
MOLLY M To the sex craved love killen. Has anyone found your un­derwear yet? 
TO MOLLY, KITTY ZACK, NIKIE NOR­RIS To the bast buddies in the worid. Thenks tor all thet you have done I LOVE YOU ALL GUKII MARY M. 
HELPI I need a ride to Exit 6 PA Tu mpike tor Thanks. break. Will pay $$$ Mike x4141 
DINNER WENCHES FROM HEU: EASY BABES!. ..lighten up. 
1188 
II you aew the dote yeaterday-and you 
•r• concerned about nuc._r w•r In 
our ~In UCAM (United Cem­pu... to Prwvent Nucleer War) Call X4205 or X1101 lor Information about UCAM, rneetlnga, and apukera. 
................................................................ 
ADOPTION IS THE ONLY WAY we will ever hear the laughter of our own child when St. Nicholas comes at Christmas. We are a happily married couple, both doctor who wish to take turns staying at home when we have a baby to adopt and love as our own. LegaV medical ex­penses paid. Call collect, conlidentially, anytime tor more into or to leave a mes­sage. (317)-844-1856 
ITALIAN CLUB FILM CLASSIC "LA DOLCE VITA" WEDNESDAY, NOV. 16 8:00 PW PARTY ROOM 
SAINT EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Unlveralty prnldent Fr. Edward Mal­loy will apeak on "How I See the Futurw of Notnt D•me," Wedneaday at 7 p.m. In thellrat-lloor lounge of St. Ed's. All are Invited. 
'''SENIORS''' THIRD THURSDAY AT BEACON BOWL 
~? 
(SEE YOU THERE) 
ELLEN NICHOLS FIESTA BOWL QUEEN 
ROCHESTER CLUB 
ROCHESTER CLUB Meetlng!Todayl 7:00pm In BP'a Pu.z­zleroom lor all atudents from Roch.,NY area. BE THEREII 
Amy, 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! I hope you have 
a 
great day. Love, Kevin 
SENIOR BLOCK PARTY 
COUNTDOWN: 
3 DAYS 
CHRIS, THE CHOP BY NOW HAS SWAM ACROSS THE OCEAN, CROSSED THE ENDLESS DEEP. AND WALKED OVER FIRE. 
# 4 MET II 1 AND NO MOVED AHEA ON THE MOVE AGAIN-IT'S LEWIS' 1988 CHAMPIONSHIP DRIVE. GO LEWIS! BEAT BPI 
And a special 1 -gun salute to Cot. who hed the absolute gall to heve a good time at this sorry excuse tor a social event. (Thanks a bunch,KM Also special thanks to HF from PM. 

From the Home Office, 136 Stanford TOP TEN QUOTES AT THE 12 HOUR POST­SYR PITY PARTY 10. But rt goes to ELEVEN I 
9. I can't miss ...I just can't mis 
8. Yeah,but I've got a Utile Richard I 

7. Do you realize how closely ether and alcohol are related? 6. Holmes 
was in the passion pit.. passionately pitting his date. 
5. Yeah, he got lei-edl 4 I have Memomakerl I make memos! 
3. Do you mean polar or Cartesian coordinates? 
2. Let's get crocked I (circa 5:30 AM on Sunday) 

1. Are we being too loud, Bro Vi?? Dave... Dave ... Can we have 5 more 
quotes? Okay Paul, 5 more PITY PARTY quotes 
5. Who crushed my cookies? 4. sn down, 
let me tell you about your carpet 
3. Give me a pillow before I jump on youl 

2. The whole dorm wouldn't ba good enough tor herl 1. I didn1 know a blind date meant that I wouldn't see her all night I 
Hey Klrt THE DOVE Ia not dead­there'a alweya '92 

Mom 
RIDERS WANTED 
-rldera to Fairfield County C1. lor Thenkaglvlng­aharw expenaea, leaving 21at or 23nd, rwtum 27th Cell Melt II 3810 
T-BONE-LIVES EROTIC CITYI Murph 
GO LEWIS BEAT BP 
MATT FAGAN likes the GoGo's 

WANTED: WINTER BOYFRIEND, WEEKENDS ONLY,SOME EXPERI­ENCE NECESSARY, APPLY TO LINDSEY 129 LEWIS. 
LEWIS FOOTBALL SUNDAYIIIII 

................................................................ 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR T-GIVING. $$.CHRIS x3048. 
BARB I can't buy you roses daily I can't ba your knight in shining armor but give me a chance 
Joyater (Yn, the RA In McCan) Aren't lat•nlght c.alla from lorwlg1111ra enlightening? It took me a 1m1e while but I IINIIIy reellzed Get the clue, rlghtl Well, I got It and lt'a love all the way. Get rwady lor the lorwtgn tnvaalon. The countdown hes begun, 
Slemprw Te gulero, Your foreign edmlrer 

................................ The Count-n haa begun ................................ Be prepered ........,,,,,,,,,,,.... The countdown 
has begun 

................................................................ 
HUGGY BEARI!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! SUP RISED YOU, EH WHAT?? FROM ME, DOC, CHUNKY, CAO"S", AND OF COURSE MOM. WE LOVE YOU Ill (4311!) 
.............................................................. 

John and Alison, alnlng In a tree, K­1-S-S-1-N-G... 
John-Campus Ministry lost a sign this weekend. What did you lose? .............................................. CHRIS DONNELLY IS OUR FRIEND. 
WE'RE SO PROUD. K&G 

LAST WINTER I GOT BUMPED FROM AN EASTERN AIRLINE FLIGHT AND THEY GAVE ME A ROUND TRIP TICKET TO ANYWHERE IN CONTNEN­TAL U.S. GOOD UNTIL THANKSGIV­ING. I CAN'T USE IT. IF YOU WANT TO BUY IT, CALL SEAN AT 4784. 
Kathy L.-We love those LADsl C & C 

As a veteran ol the German peace move­ment (Oct. 10,81), I want to extand a big THANK YOU to the folks who put the rad dots all ove< campus. Good jobl 
A. Krueger 
ED'S PARTY OF 9 TRIP TO CHICAGO Highlights 

9. "I wish I had a brush!" 8. Drug dealing on EVERY comer 7. Bog 6. Marc's ec­hoing hiccups 5. Disciples of Tim 4. MACHO R US 3. "Are we going to send him the 
Champion oner -Heather Quote II 2 
2. "I have lot like a Banshee!" 

1. PASSION MONKS : Heather. Pete<, 
Usa, Marc, Gaby, Tim, Jane and Mr. Ed 

Tuesday, November 15, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Aim could excel at more sports than just football 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
Combine the size and strength of a weightlifter with the height and agility of a bas­ketball player, and you've got some idea of the threat Jeff Aim poses to opposing quarter­backs. 
The 6-7, 248-pound junior de­fensive tackle has been a dis­ruptive force in opposing back­fields this season, stuffing ballcarriers, leaping to bat down passes, and occasionally coming down with the ball as well. 
"I may not be the most effec­tive pass rusher," said Aim, "but I can get my hands up. A lot of the time, because of the way our defensive backs are covering their receivers, their (opposing quarterbacks) only option is to do a kind of dump pass where the tight end will come around and the ball is just lofted over the line. 
"If there's nobody up there (on the line), the quarterback's just gonna throw it. Right when he throws it, you have a chance to jump up, and that's how I've made both of my intercep­tions." 
Both of Aim's interceptions have directly contributed to Irish scores this season. He picked off a late third-quarter pass against Miami to set up Reggie Ho's 27-yard field goal and give Notre Dame a 31-21 lead over the Hurricanes. He also pulled down a pass against Rice to set up a Tony Brooks touchdown run. 
Aim has tallied 44 tackles on the year, including 22 unassis­ted. He also has recovered a fumble, which is not surprising considering his knack for being at the right place at the right time. 
"I'll tell you what he does probably better than any player that I've ever coached," said Irish defensive tackles co­ach John Palermo. "He chases the football better than anyone I've been around. For the most part, he's at the right place at the right time." 
Aim is an integral part of a defensive line which features three first-year starters. He complements George Williams and Chris Zorich in fending off opposing blockers and apply­ing pressure on quarterbacks. 
"George, Chris and I have to put pressure on the quarter­back and try to get a hand up in his face," said Aim. "If we can, we sack him. But I think the most important thing is just to let the quarterback know that we're out there and we're trying to get at him. 
"I think we've been slowly proving we can do it. I think people know we're some kind of force to be reckoned with, and they're gonna have to do something to stop us." 
Aim credits Palermo for revamping the defensive line, considered something of a question mark prior to the season. 
"It's a new defensive line," said the Orland Park, Ill. na­tive. "We've changed the way we're hitting this year. We tend to hit people in the face this year. You know, we hit our head to their head, and it seems that it stops an offensive lineman. He (Palermo) just taught us how to hit this year, and it seems to be very effec­tive." 
Equally effective was Aim's switch from outside linebacker to defensive tackle. Recruited as a linebacker out of Carl Sandburg High School in Or­land Park, Aim was moved to the line three games into his freshman season. Palermo believes the switch was neces­sary to maximize Aim's defen­sive output. 
"Jeff is a very good technique 

Jeff Aim has made his presence felt on the Notre Dame defensive line this season. Aim has re­corded two key interceptions in wins over Miami 
football player right now," said here my senior year for the Palermo. "I think he under­recruiting weekend, they read stands the game fairly well. me my arrival time in South With his size and development, Bend as my departure time in the best way for him to show Chicago. So when I got to the his abilities was to move him airport, my plane had just down inside." landed in South Bend. 
Considered one of the top 16 "Had I had enough money to players in the nation according take a cab, I probably would to United Press International's have never come (to Notre 1985 prep talent survey, Alm Dame), because I would have was highly recruited coming gone back home. But since I out of high school. Strangely didn't, I waited at the airport enough,alackofpocketchange and I went on standby and I afforded him the opportunity to came down here. I committed visit Notre Dame. on my visit, which was kind of 
"They screwed up on my strange." recruiting visit," said Alm. "When I was supposed to come Alm has been plagued by a series of injuries in the three years since he enrolled at Notre Dame, but everything seems to have come together in 1988. He is enjoying his finest season to date, and has earned the · respect of his coaches to boot. 
"Going into spring football last spring, Jeff had a history 
, of being injured and basically not performing up to his abili­ties," said Palermo. "I think what he did was to make a com­mitment in the springtime that he was going to be the best player he could be. I think he really wants to help this foot­ball team." 
~~Km ~r:.E:tt: Thefoink Before '(OU Drink B re You Dnve 
SMC Off Campus is sponsoring MOONSTRUCK SANKOFA Nov 15-17 in Carol! Aud 9 & 11 $1 All welcome SANK OFA 
SANKOFA TOP 10 NITE OF FORMAL QUOTES 10 YOU SANKOFA continued from page 1 0 DICKED ME OVER! 9 HAVE ANOTHER DRINK-ON WEDNESDAY 

Class 
US 8 DOUG,NICE TIE 7 IS THAT YOUR TAPE? I 8:00 TO JEN,KATIE,ANGIE,MOLLY,AND KIM THANKS DIDN'T KNOW GIRLS LIKED THAT KIND OF THEODORE'S


-----------------------------, 
FOR MAKING SATURDAY NIGHT A LITTLE BET· STUFF 6 YOU LOOK PHENOMINALI 5 CALL ME HISTORY OF JAZZ
One Month Free 
TEA. LOVE, YOU KNOW WHO ELBERT 4 MEG, WE LOVE YOU 3 YEAH,WE HISTORY OF JAZZ MIGHT ALL FIT ON THIS BUS 2 NO, I'M TOM 1 HISTORY OF JAZZ 
ATTENTION ALL WOMEN HERE ARE TOP 10 DUDE! WEDNESDAY REASONS TO HATE CHRIS" JEFFORD" 10 POOL? 8:00 9 OH PLEASE 8 HE LIES 7 HE HAS AN EGO THE HAPPY GESTATION, BAAABY!! THEODORE'S SIZE OF CLEVELAND 6 "CAN'T YOU GO BY LOVE, 
Rent 

N.D. APT 

YOURSELF?" 5 YEAH RIGHT 4 "THE PHONE LAURA WASN'T OFF THE HOOOK."3 OH, REALLY? 2 HE SANKOFA STOOD ME UP 1 HE HAS A STUB SANKOFA
234-6647 

I HAD A GREAT TIME SATURDAY NIGH ATTN ALL SMOND TOASTMASTERS BULL­SANKOFA HOW ABOUT YOU? OH, YES BY THE WASY· WAS THROWING CONTEST 11117 220 HAYES-HEALY, TOMORROW NIGHT
RENT IN NOV. AND 
MAD. 

7:30. COME SEE WHO TELLS THE BEST TALL 8:00 THEODORE'S JEN,ANGIE,KA TIE TALE! ?'S CALL 284-5308, 283-1023 SANKOFA
GET ONE MONTH FREE 
SANKOFA 

SAKOFA Get Moonstruck at SMC Nov15-17 $1 9 & 11 at 
Ideal location walking distance to school 
Carroll Aud.

Furnished 2-bedroom 
_____________________________J 
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Any Type Home-made "You've tried the rest, now try the best" 


GRAND OPENING STARTS WEDNESDAY 
Free Pepsi with purchase (except with delivery) 
$1.00 off any size pizza 921 N. Eddy,
289-4625 Free Prizes South Bend 
THANKS TO ALL THE ROBS & BOBS AT THE WALSH SYR 
KEVIN, 

Where's you sock? Run away, Run away. 
TO: STEPHANIE, PEGGY, JACKIE, LAURA AND AMY THANKS FOR MAKING MY BIRTHDAY SOMETHING TO REMEMBER! YOUR THE BEST LOVE, KATHERINE 
RIDE NEEDED TO THE CLEVELAND AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK WILL SHARE EX­PENSES. CALL KATY 284-5405 
BOSTON I NEED A RIDE SO I CAN SURPRISE MY FAMILY FOR THANKSGIVING. ANYTIME FROM 11122 RE­TURNING 111.18. PLEASE HELP! LYNN AT 284­5512 
HISTORY OF JAZZ HISTORY OF JAZZ HISTORY OF JAZZ SANK OFA SANKOFA SANKOFA HISTORY OF JAZZ HISTORY OF JAZZ 
SANKOFA TOMORROW NIGHT THEODORE'S 8:00 
...whent all the cool people wiU be•.. 
• Fine Stationery

Resume 
• Matching Envelopes 
Service kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187 State Rooell 23
For a resume tl1at can do tl1e job, depend on Kinko's. 
271-0398 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, November 15, 1988 

Rader's dream comes true 
Sailing Club qualifies 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Doug 
Rader, calling his new job a 
"dream opportunity," was 
named manager of the Califor-· 
nia Angels Monday. 
Rader, 44, a former Texas Rangers manager and Gold Glove-winning third baseman for the Houston Astros, worked as a scout for the Angels during the 1988 season. He replace Cookie Rojas, who was fired late in the season. 
Rader is the 12th manager in the club's 28-year history. 
"There are not many people who love baseball who wouldn't be ecstatic, not only to be a part of this organization, but to get the job I have been given," Rader said during a news con­ference to announce his hiring. 
Rader, who will work with "not excellent talent, but good enough to get us headed in the right direction," said his top priority was getting the players to realize their potential. 
"The Dodgers are a perfect example," Rader said of the team up the freeway that won the National League playoffs and the World Series this 

season by upsetting the New 
York Mets and Oakland Ath­
letics. 

"They (the Dodgers) didn't play over their heads," Rader said. "They played to their abilities and other clubs did not." 
Rader said his contract with the Angels was for one year, and he was retaining the club's coaching staff. 
Angels owner Gene Autry said several people were inter­ested in the managerial job. 
"We interviewed quite a few men who wanted to manage here and I can truthfully say they were all qualified," Autry said. "We got it down to one guy and I think we made a very good choice." 
"The selection process went on longer than we had hoped," General Manager Mike Port said. "There were a lot of good baseball people interested. We have the man we want." 

Rader was appointed Rang­ers' manager in the winter of 1982. He had a 77-85 record and finished third in the American League West in 1983. He was fired by the Rangers in 1985 
after the team started the 
season 9-23. 
He has a major league managing record of 156-201, in­cluding a 1-1 record while ser­ving as interim manager for the Chicago White Sox in 1986. 
Rader played 10 seasons with three r:najor league clubs-­Houston, San Diego and Toronto. He was with the Astros for more than eight seasons. 
He won five consecutive Gold Gloves from 1970-74, and hit 20 or more homers three times. 
The Angels fired Rojas with eight games· remaining in the 1988 season and replaced him on an interim basis with third base coach Moose Stubing. The Angels lost all eight games un­der Stubing and finished the season with a 12-game losing 
streak and a 75-87 record, for fourth place in the AL west, 29 games behind Oakland. 
Others considered for the job included former Angels' manager Jim Fregosi and former Cleveland manager Pat Corrales. 


for National Regatta 
The Sailing Club qualified for the Collegiate National Regatta two weekends ago when it placed third out of five teams in the Regional qualifying meet. The top three teams were invited to compete in the National meet. 
Greg 
0
I


Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 
. '~\_ 

Two boats participated for the Irish. In the "A" Division, Pete Wall and Chris Blum sailed behind some strong winds to capture third place. 
In the "B" Division, Tom Seffions and Patti Losinske made a run for the championship, but came up short and settled for third place. 
"Overall, we sailed really well considering the compe­tition," said Losinske. "We hope to do even better in the Collegiate National." 
The Collegiate National Regatta is one of the biggest in the country. Besides Notre Dame, 18 other teams will be in action, all of whom qualified in other meets. Some teams who have qualified are Stanford and the Naval Academy. The Regatta will be held near Chicago on Thanksgiving weekend. 
The Men's Volleyball Club had a slight change in plans recently. The Irish will not travel to Canada over Thanks­giving break due to a lack of funds. In place, the money will be used to fund a trip to San Diego later in the year. 


USFG 
continued from page 16 
job of organizing the tourna­ment." 
Buoniconti ardently believes that this type of response is typical of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"There is truly something special about going here and 


Fiesta 
continued from page 16 
the season than the bowl. I told them whatever decision they reached was fine with me." 
But although the teams have been determined, the time and date of the game are still up for consideration. 
The Fiesta Bowl is scheduled 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS IWHO'S GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
----------------------------~ 
HELP WANTED 
Delivery Drivers, waitresses and waiters, 
Needed for Bruno's Pizza. Apply in person at Bruno's, 
921 N. Eddy 


after~·~~~~.........Ca·ll·2·n·~·00·6·be·m..ee·n·B··5.pm...... 
NOTRf OAMt CHORALt 
CARl L STAM, CONDUCTOR 

UNIVERSITY 

SCHEELE PURE WATER STSTEMS, INC 
needs Full /Part time: telemarketers canvasers sales people 
tor Mon.-Fri. 3-9pm Saturday 9-Gpm 
Excellent pay & benefits 

graduating  from here,"  said  
Buoniconti.  
Buoniconti  constantly  

deflects attention away from himself and is determined to remind everyone of the reason that the program exists. 

"That's why we're here," said Buoniconti as he pointed to two disabeled people con­fined to a wheelchair for the rest of their lives. 
for 5 p.m. EST on NBC televi­sion, but reports say the game may be pushed back to Jan. 3 at 8 p.m. if both West Virginia and Notre Dame remain un­beaten. 
Florida State, which had hopes of receiving a Fiesta Bowl bid and a chance to play the Irish should Syracuse upset West Virginia, now appears headed for the Sugar Bowl or Cotton Bowl on Jan. 2. 
WORKS BY BACH. IVES, BRAHMS, DURUFLE, BILLINGS. AND DISTLER 
Of NOTRE OAMf 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 15, 1988 8:00PM SACRED HEART CHURCH 

DENNYS, 1t2 MILE NORTt! OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. 
IS OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" T-SHIRT GIVE ~.WAY. 
FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO DENi.~YS WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
LEARN ABOUT THE NEWEST AND MOST VERSATILE FOREIGN STUDIES PROGRAM.•• THE SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD ALL NDISMC UNDERGRADUATES ARE ELIGIBLE. GENERAL INFORMATION MEETINGS: 
SMC: 7:00PM 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 14 CAMELIAN ROOM, HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER 

... 

Hockey 
continued from page16 
game, Kuehl put the Irish ahead 2-1, getting assists from Robert Copeland and Bankoske. But three straight Falcon power play goals in the next 11 minutes effectively put the Irish away. 
"This is the Year of Cultural 


T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS~ 
Diversity here at Notre Dame," said Schafer. "We could sure use a few Swedes, Russians and Canadians to shore up our defense. But for now, we've just got to get ready for Lake Forest." 
The Irish battle the Foresters in a home-and-home series beginning at Notre Dame this Friday night. 
RESPECT ... YOU KNOW IT DON'T COME EASY 
WE HAD TO EARN OURS. WITH ALL THE FLY BY NIGHT. HOCUS POCUS. DO-IT-YOURSELF "REVIEW.. PROGRAM>. ISN'T IT GOOD TO KNOW THERE'S CONVISER DUFFY lis MILLER CPA REVIEw? OuR cOMPREHENSIVE TExTs REPRESENT AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR HIGHLY RESPECTED PROGRAM. RESPECTED Et.OUGH TO BE INCORPORATED AS PART OF THE EDUCATIONAL CURRICULUM AT MAJOR UNIVERSITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY IN FACT. THE SEPTEMBER ISSUE OF THE "NEW ACCOUNTANT.. MAGAZINE RATED UNI· VERSITIES ACCORDING TO PASS RATES THREE OF THE TOP TEN SCHOOLS IN THE SURVEY USE THE CONVISER DUFFY 8 MILLER CPA REVIEW PROGRAM. THAT·s RIGHT. THREE OF THE TOP TEN I PLEASE PHONE US TO FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN JOIN THE OVER 75o/o OF OUR STUDENTS EACH YEAR THAT CAN PROUDLY ADD THREE MORE INITIALS AFTER THEIR NAME. C.P.A. AT CCJNVISER DuFFY 8 MILLER. WE'RE OUT TO EARN YOUR 
RESPECT.· 


LIVE •. COMPREHENSIVE r:so0-274-EXAM 
ND: 7:00PM 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 16 MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

Tuesday, November 15, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Buffalo routs Miami 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Ronnie Harmon ran for one touchdown and caught a 16-yard pass from Jim Kelly for another and Robb Riddick had two 1­yard scoring runs as the Buf­falo Bills maintained the NFL's best record by beating Miami 31-6 Monday night. 
It was the sixth straight win for the Bills, 10-1, who maintained their lead of four games over New England and Indianapolis in the AFC East with five games to go. 
The Bills, who intercepted Dan Marino three times, scored on their first posses­sion of the game. They led 10-6 at halftime and, relying mainly on a defense led by Bruce Smith, Cornelius Ben­nett and Art Still that held Miami to just 33 yards rush­ing, the Bills handed the Dol­phins their worst defeat since 1970. 
Then they put the game away with two touchdowns 2% minutes apart in the third quarter. 
The first score, with 5:33 left in the period, came on Riddick's 1-yard plunge at the end of an 80-yard drive aided by two Miami penalties. The second was a 6-yard run by Harmon set up by Bennett's interception and 30-yard return of a Marino pass on Miami's first olav after the kickoff. 
The Bills' 10-1 record represents their best start since 1964 and the six-game winning streak is their longest since 1974. 
Coach K not exactly pleased as AP tabs Duke No. 1 team 
.ajplcufulu14***;.K************'**************~.l-panel of sportswriters and
* 
. *broadcasters, well ahead of the

* 
Friday December 2 ~ Hoyas' 1,107. .

* 
' ~~ ~ ~ 


! South Bend's Union Station *Krzyzewski wasn't overly
* 
* 9 PM_ 1AM
* 
! Featuring "The Groove"
* 
* $lS per Couple
* 
!
* 
* ~a-.. ¥<'«"-~ <U«i ~
* ttJ s~ etM4 o~ 4! 7~. ~22 ttJ
* ~ '~""" ~.
* 
'A .-"''...

* 
.U~p.-oL ""'""""' vuw.o


o~~«~-L4?--. 
Associated Press 
Duke, a Final Four team two of the last three seasons, was named the No. 1 team Monday in The Associated Press' preseason college basketball poll. 
The Blue Devils, who finished fifth in the final regular-season poll last season and went on to the Final Four and a semifinal loss to eventual champion Kansas, received 33 first-place votes and easily out­distanced No. 2 Georgetown, which had eight first-place votes. 
Duke, which last held the top ranking over the final three polls of the 1985-86 season-­another in which it reached the Final Four--finished with 1,257 points from the nationwide 
f pleased at being No. 1.i "If you're ranked very high *early, there's a tendency to *think you've already accom­
*plished something, and youl really haven't accomplished
*anything," he said."* Michigan, Louisville and
*Oklahoma--another Final Four
* 
team from last season-­l rounded out the· Top Five in a

* 
voting that showed the quick


*turns of the fortunes of col­
*legiate basketball programs.
f l t

* Five• teams rom as 
;**-**•fo!o!(**************************** season's final poll--Purd~e,
Kentucky, Bradley, Wyommg 

Mike Krzyzewskl 
and Xavier, Ohio--did not even receive a vote in the preseason balloting and another, Kansas State, got just one. 
Kansas, which wasn't ex­pected to fare that well follow­ing the graduation of Danny Manning, the NBA's No. 1draft choice and the player most re­sponsible for the Jayhawks' title. However, a three-year probation for recruiting viola­tions was handed down to Kansas and the Jayhawks will not defend their title in the NCAA tournament. 
Nine of the teams in the preseason poll, including Geor­getown, were unranked in the final poll of last season. 
Eight teams received first­place votes and 51 of the 293 Division I teams eligible for re­ceiving votes did. 
Michigan received four first­place votes and 1,090 points, 74 more than Louisville, which got. seven No. 1 votes. Oklahoma 
had nine first-place votes and 1,001 points. 
North Carolina was sixth with three No. 1 selections and 915 points, just four more than Iowa, which had two first-place votes. One point separated No. 8 Syracuse, 852 points, and Il­linois, while Nevada-Las Vegas, the final team to receive a No. 1 vote, rounded out the Top Ten with 851 points. 
Arizona--the final member of last year's Final Four--led the Second Ten with 605 points and was followed by Villanova, Georgia Tech, Missouri, Florida, Florida State, Ohio State, North Carolina State, 
Temple and Stanford. 
Temple was the top team in the final poll of last season, but the Owls, who lost to Duke in the regional finals, lost three starters from the 32-2 team that brought the school its first No. 1 ranking. 
Georgetown and Louisville are the only members of the Top Ten not to have finished in the final Top Twenty of last season but Villanova, Georgia Tech, Missouri, Florida, Florida State, Ohio State and Stanford were not in that voting. In fact, Stanford and Florida State were not ranked at any time last season. 
In addition to those men­tioned above, Pittsburgh, Loyola Marymount, and Brig­ham Young did not return to the Top Twenty. 




ND, Trojans retain top spots 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame and Southern California are within one step of a showdown between the na­tion's No. 1 and No. 2 college football teams while Arkansas made the Top Ten for the first time this season and Houston cracked the Top Twenty after an eight-year absence. 
Houston, which last ap­peared in the Associated Press poll in September 1980, upped its record to 7-2 by defeating previously unbeaten Wyoming 34-10 Saturday night and drop­ping the Cowboys from lOth place to 16th. Colorado, No. 19 last week, fell out of the rankings by losing to No.7 Ne­braska 7-{). 
In addition, Auburn and Oklahoma swapped places, Auburn rising from ninth to eighth and Oklahoma slipping from eighth to ninth. 
Notre Dame, idle last weekend, received 40 of 59 first­place votes and 1,156 of a pos­sible 1,180 points from a nation­wide panel of sports writers 




Digger 
continued from page 16 
Basketball--the one that thought Jamere Jackson was too young to run for president­-will jump from his seat and loudly dispute one of Digger's coaching decisions. 
Later in the season, after one of the five talented freshmen misses a shot late in a crucial contest, he will jump up again, this time yelling "Mark Steven­son would have nailed that shot." 
But before we pass judge­ment so quickly, let's look a little deeper into the situation. 
Digger may not win NCAA championships, but he does win games, at least 20 of them the last five seasons. He's been in the NCAA tourney the past four years, and the 1977-78 Fighting Irish made it to the Final Four. Digger's teams have defeated the No. 1 team in the nation seven times. 
Yet students complain that this is Notre Dame, and they deserve more than simply a winning season. Bear in mind that no one wants to win a championship more than Dig­ger, but he will not do it at any cost. He will win it the right and sportscasters. The 9-{)-{) Irish, who play Penn State on Saturday, are No. 1 for the 
third consecutive week. 
Southern Cal, a 50-{) winner over Arizona State, received 18 first-place votes and 1,131 points. The Trojans, also 9-{)-0, are No. 2 for the third week in a row. They face No. 6 UCLA on Saturday and Notre Dame on Nov. 26. 

Last week, also with 59 voters participating, Notre Dame led USC 42-15 in first-place votes and 1,160-1,122 in points. In the last three weeks, Notre Dame's lead has decreased from 47 points to 38 to 25. 
The other first-place ballot went to defending national champion Miami, which was idle. The Hurricanes, 7-1-0, received 1,06() points. 
Unbeaten West Virginia, 10­0-{), remained No. 4 with 977 points following a 35-25 triumph over Rutgers. For the first time in three weeks, however, the Mountaineers failed to receive a first-place vote. 
way, his way, the Notre Dame way or not at all. 

Digger will be the first to ad­mit that Stevenson could have played and made a difference in losses to Duke and Kentucky last year. Digger says the Duke students would have greeted Stevenson with shopping bags in one hand and beer cans in the other. Maybe Kentucky and Kansas would opt for the cham­pionships and accept a little embarrassment, but Notre Dame and Digger never have and never will. 
"It cost us three big games," Digger said of the Stevenson or­deal. "But do we sacrifice what we are as a University to be No. 1 at any cost? We refuse to do that at Notre Dame and refuse to bend academically because the kids want a career that means something after school. We will not put our­selves in a position where the athlete is bigger than the Uni­versity." 
In terms of the things that supposedly count, like gradua­tion and preparation for the real world, Digger has the top program in the country. In 
terms of the marks under the 

wfin column tDh~t students hand ans count, 1gger some ow comes up short. That could 
change soon, especially as 

----THETHOMAS_]. --bangles 
r.e.m.
_HITE CENT_E__R II J til tuesday 



FOR LAWA~~D __G_QVERNMENT 
Notre Dame law School Presents A Lecture By 
H. Richard Lamb, M.D. 
Univ. %!~;;,t~·~~h<;:ifornia 
On " Involuntary Treatment for the Homeless Mentally Ill?" 
Noon Room 220 Tuesday, Nov. 15 Law School Courtroom 
.._____________________ 
Florida State beat Virginia Tech 41-14 and held onto fifth place with 937 points, UCLA's 27-17 victory over Stanford en­abled the Bruins to remain No. 6 with 866 points and Nebraska is again No. 7 with 805 points after edging Colorado. 
Auburn's 20-10 victory over Georgia lifted the Tigers into eighth place with 769 points while Oklahoma received 750 points and fell one spot after struggling past Missouri 16-7. 

Arkansas, 10-0-{) and one of four teams with perfect records, rose from 11th place to lOth by downing Texas A&M 25-20. The Razorbacks received 657 points. 
The Second Ten consists of LSU, Michigan, Oklahoma State, Syracuse, (:lemson, Wyoming, Houston, Alabama, Washington State and Georgia. 
Last week, it was Arkansas, LSU, michigan, Oklahoma State, Syracuse, Clemson, Georgia, Alabama, Colorado and Washington State. 

Proposition 48 begins to take 
full effect. 
Before Proposition 48, ath­

letes could get an 'A' in P.E. 
and an 'F' in science and still 
play. Notre Dame couldn't 
recruit those players, but it did 
have to play against them. Now 
the Irish can be competitive 
again, both on the court and in 
recruiting. 
"Now we're looking beyond just getting into the tourna­ment," Digger says. "We're now getting competitive with · the type of athlete we have. It's starting to swing back for usY 
With a team that will be in­
tact for two years and a 

talented freshman class, Dig­
ger could get that elusive title 
soon. If not, I doubt that he will 
lose much sleep over it because 
he knows that the Notre Dame 
program is doing things the 
right way. He looks at the big 
picture, the one that exists 
beyond the NCAA tournament. 
Never mind the titles, Digger will take the victories off the court, the wins that educate people and teach them about life after basketball, the les­sons gained not only in the classroom but also in the real world. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO crew team will hold a meeting for its novice members tonight at 7:30 in room 114 of O'Shaughnnesy Hall. -The Observer 
Irish Insanity will meet Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune to finalize plans for the Notre Dame-Lake Forest hockey game. -The Observer 
. 

The NO Ski Team is having a meeting tonight at 
8:30 in room 117 of Haggar. Bring turtleneck money. Anyone interested in going to Steamboat over Christmas is welcome to attend. Any questions should be directed to Woodsy at 288-5423. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club willl hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. Race team practices will be held each day this week from 3 to 5 p.m. 
-The Observer 
The SMC turkey trot will take place Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. Participants can choose from a five-mile run, a three-mile run or a 1.5-mile walk. A $1 entry fee is due at 5 p.m. today at the Angela Athletic Facility. The trot is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and administrators. 
-The Observer 
Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson will be guests on the WVFI-AM 640 Speaking of Sports college basketball preview show tonight from 10 to 11 p.m. Join host Greg Guffey amd Vic Lombardi by calling 239-6400 with ques­tions. -The Observer 
Darryl Rogers was fired by the Detroit Lions Monday after the poor start by the NFL squad. -Associated Press 
The SMC intramural racquetball doubles tournament for all Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff has and entry deadline of 5 p.m. Thursday at the Angela Athletic Facility. Participants will schedule matches on their own following the timeline established. For more information, call 284-5549. -The Observer 
The Synchronized Swim Club is holding practices on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and on Sundays from 11:15 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is welcome. Any questions should be directed to Tara at x3867, Katie at x2646 or Ann at x1294. 
-The Observer 



new! 
julian cope big country dire straits alphaville duran duran billy bragg ministry jane's addiction level42 cocteau twins los lobos 
pet shop boys 
...... I I 
.,-------------•-... . 1 .--. . , traveling wilburys
I : ­
steve miller
1

1 iit1iiiiiiiiiiiJ;;;-.;!;i!iiil!iiiLii!~~: I they might be giants 
paul simon

-1-TO_R_K-EY_T_O_ES_D_A_Y---,1 
fishbone edie brickell & I Free 32oz. drink I new bohemians with any 14 or 18 1 inch TURKEY or TURKEY I
I I plus...
1 BREAST sub order. 1 all your old favorites1-DON'T FORGET lOTH INNING SPECIAL I 
down in I EVERYDAY AITER 1OPM INCH SUB, I 1 CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4. 25 I 
1 1 the r.J 
271-0 SUB II -1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE cellar 
AOWORKS

\._·--------------~' ..,...;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iiiii=----;;;;;;==;;.11 


Tuesday, November 15, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

Thursday, Nov 17 Washington Hall 9 pm, $1 


&fun! 

............ 
46 Behind a ship 47 Kind of jury 49 Trapshooting 50 Like some 
autumn leaves 52 Biblical book 53 Hwy. 56Jai-­57 Go in 59 Close SO Villein 61 Paris's river 62 Autumn colors 83 Nosegay 84 Fencing sword 85 Aide: Abbr. 
DOWN 1 Casa room 
2 Patron saint of Norway 3 Colorful fall beauties 4 Soc.-page girl 5 Certain evergreens 6 Grow's home 7Tinhorn 8 Baseball stat 9 A source of soft wood 10 Fall beauties 11 London trolley 12Ye--Tea Shoppe 

15 Bright-hued fall 29 Autumnal color 50 Catch one's beauty breath
31 Place of worship 21 Narrate 51 Spread
32 Jester 52 Alert
23 Healthy 35 Mesa's kin 54 Boys
25Agitates 38 Fuel from bogs 55 Formerly,
26 Bar order 43 Employs 
formerly 27 Embarks 
45 Sault --Marie 

58 Bess Truman, 48 Enlighten --Wallace
28 An English royal house 49 Episode 59 Blue Eagle org. 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Egad! ... Sounds like the farmer's wife has really flipped out this time!" 
Noon White Center for Law and Government presents "In­voluntary Treatment for the Homeless Mentally Ill?" by H. Richard Lamb, Ph.D., University of Southern California, Room 220 Law School. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all Arts and Letters and Business students interested in careers with Northern Trust Company, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
8 p.m. The Graduate Student Union and the Student Union Board present "The Sword of Islam" as part of Middle Eas­tern Week, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
9 p.m. "Pop and Beyond," a program by three Notre Dame jazz combos, Washington Hall. There is no admission charge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Thin Steak Sandwich Pasta Bar Baked Turbot Ham & Broccoli Rolls 
COMICS 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Salsbury Steak Fettuchini Alfredo Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Betrayed 5 Luminary 9ln re 13 Tub plant 14 Dill and sage 16 Folk singer lves 17 Meek one 18 Of the eye 19Mildoath 20 Spot for SAC 
21 Playing card 22 Blazing 24 Sharp ridge 
26 Thorn 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.;;.~.;;+;.a.:.::!J!I~~~ ..;:+~;...f.:,,:.j .:;.J.::,;.i.,;+:~ 
27 Saunter 29Zone 30 Singer Davis 33 Of hearing 34 An Amerind 35Gala 36 Brief amour 37 To the left, at 
sea 39 Until 40 Truncates 41 Small number 42 Jesse James, 
e.g. 44 Theater sign 45 Bridge 

Buzz Mcflatop Michael F. Muldoon 



Sports 
Tuesday, November 15, 1988
paae 16 

Notre Dame to play West Virginia •tn Fiesta Bowl 
By MARTY STRASEN ported Monday that West choose to go to the Fiesta Year's feast includes West Vir­added. He also said the large Sports Editor Viginia officials had a similar Bowl," Rosenthal said. "They ginia. number of Notre Dame alumni meeting and that the Moun­put on a great bowl, and they An unnamed source in the in the Southwest and West and 
It's unofficially official: top­taineers will be extended a will attract the highest-ranked Daily Mail confirmed that the the fact the Irish have never ranked Notre Dame will meet Fiesta Bowl bid regardless of opponent for us to play." outcome of Saturday's game played in the Fiesta Bowl make No. 4 West Virginia in the the outcome of Saturday's final But although Fiesta Bowl of­between the Mountaineers and Tempe an attractive site. Fiesta Bowl at Sun Devil regular-season game against ficial Bill Shover called a Notre the Orangemen (8-0 will have Holtz said he was willing to Stadium in Tempe, Ariz. 15th-ranked Syracuse. Dame-West Virginia game "a no bearing on the bid. accept whatever decision 
Athletic Director Dick The Fiesta Bowl has indi­done deal," Rosenthal warns "The outcome of Saturday's Rosenthal and Beauchamp Rosenthal met Monday with cated its interest in both the that bids are not officially ex­final game at home against made, preferring to concen­University Vice President Fa­Mountaineers (10-0) and the tended until Saturday. Syracuse will have no effect," trate his own efforts on the up­ther William Beauchamp and Irish (9-0) since mid-season, "We're like the guest who the source was quoted as coming games against Penn Irish head coach Lou Holtz and and now can only hope the gets invited to dinner," Rosen­saying. "West Virginia is going State (Saturday) and at South­decided Notre Dame would ac­teams remain undefeated to set thal said. "We can't tell them to the Fiesta Bowl and is going ern Cal (Nov. 26). cept the Fiesta Bowl bid when up a game for the national what to serve." to play Notre Dame." "I sat down and talked with it is officially extended Satur­championship. But the Dominion Post said The Fiesta Bowl offers an es­Father Beauchamp and Dick day. "We met and came to the Bruce Skinner, the Fiesta timated payout of $3 million per Rosenthal," Holtz said. "I told 
Two newspapers, the Mor­conclusion that, if we were in­Bowl's executive director, will team. them I was more interested in gantown Dominion Post and vited after Saturday's game be at Mountaineer Field to an­"We haven't discussed num­
see FIESTA, page 12
Charleston Daily Mail, re-(against Penn State), we would nounce that Notre Dame's New bers with them," Rosenthal 
Falcons gain revenge on ND hockey squad 
seconds remaining in regula­Assistant Sports Editor By PETE SKIKO tion. 
"And we could have won it 
The Air Force Falcons in overtime," said disap­gained a measure of revenge pointed Irish head coach Ric against the Notre Dame hockey Schafer. "They (Air Force) team over the weekend, pick­picked up a penalty with 40 ing up a 6-6 tie and a 6-3 win seconds left in regulation and over the Irish in a two-game we should have started the series in Colorado Springs, Co. overtime with a man advan­
Notre Dame had swept the tage. But <Bob Bilton) got a Falcons in an emotional pair of silly penalty 10 seconds later games at the JACC last year, that maybe we shouldn't have and Air Force apparently was taken. not ready to forget about it. "Don't get me wrong--it was 
Peppering Irish goaltender a heck of a comeback. I give 
Lance Madson with shots and my guys a lot of credit. But for 
taking advantage of seemingly the most part, we played 
countless defensive miscues, average this weekend. If we're 
the 2-3-1 Falcons never let up, going to beat a lot of these 
with the exception of the third teams, we've got to play a little The Observer I Scott McCann 
period of Friday night's thrill­above our heads." The Notre Dame hockey team lost and tied a pair will try to bounce back this weekend In a home­
ing overtime tie. The overtime period ended of games with Air Force last weekend. The Irish and-home series with Lake Forest. 
Down 6-3 heading into the with no more penalties and no final period, the Irish rallied to more scoring, but plenty of play of Madson, it could have night, the junior faced 63 shots, tween the penalties and the forge a tie behind goals from questions for the Irish to solve. been a lot worse. Just look at including an incredible 29 in the lack of help on defense and on 
"We're not a dirty hockey the stats." second period, and steered the power play, I wouldn't have Chris Olson, Matt Hanzel and 
David Bankoske. Olson and team," said Schafer, "but this The stats are, indeed, fantas­away all but six. blamed Lance for hitting the 
Hanzel scored just 22 seconds weekend we picked up a lot of tic. In Friday night's contest, The Air Force power play showers early Saturday 
apart with a little under two­inopportune penalties that led Madson stopped 37 Falcon at­converted six of their 15 man night." 
and-a-half minutes left and to goals. We can't afford to be tempts, including six-of-eight advantages, leading Schafer to Two minutes into the second Bankoske's goal, with assists a man short against teams that power play opportunities--a question his young defense. period of Saturday night's coming from Hanzel and Tim can and will capitalize. Again, better-than-average night for "Part of it is the inexperi­see HOCKEY, page 12 Kuehl, came with only 19 if it weren't for the fantastic any goalie. But on Saturday ence," said Schafer, "but be-

Buoniconti at charity tourney 
By BOB MITCHELL found a straight road. Prior to sented the Miami resident with Sports Writer 1985, research was practically a plaque. non-existent but today in the "It was my first award from 
Football, the game which Miami Project there are 60 Notre Dame since I Nick Buoniconti played with a scientists working 24 hours a graduated," said Buoniconti. passion for Notre Dame 0959-day in 25 laboratories. The "I will treasure it and put it in 1961) and the NFL, crippled his Miami Project which spends a place of honor. My son, Marc, 22-year-old son on October 26, three and half million dollars a will treasure it also." 1985. In Buoninconti style, the year is the center for paralysis Marc, now a full time student 1961 co-captain and All­research in the United States. at the University of Miami, American did not sit back; he "As time goes on, the cure does his own part to help raise went out and did something becomes closer," said a deter­funds for the Miami Project. 
-about the situation. mined Buoniconti, a former "Marc, a psychology major, As a result, Nick Buoniconti laywer and president of a For­went to Dallas, Texas last returned to his alma mater this tune 500 company. weekend and raised $30,000 for weekend to kick off Notre Athletic Director Richard the Miami Project," said Dame's participation in a na­Rosenthal was thrilled that Buoniconti. tional campaign to find a cure Notre Dame could participate for paralysis. Over 200 students in this type of event. Nick Buoniconti is quick to and staff competed in the point out that he is very grate­"USF&G Sugar Bowl Flag "We will participate in the ful for Notre Dame's help in his Football Drive To Cure drive as long as the project quest to help the disabled. Paralysis" held in the Loftus goes on," said Rosenthal. "It "It is a nice warm feeling to Sports Center. is a great tribute to the Notre have this type of response." "I felt helpless when I saw Dame student body which said Buoniconti. "When you my son lying in bed," said evidences that Notre Dame have something happen to you Buoniconti. "I made a com­cares. Just again, it shows that like this, you look to your fam­mittment to him that research Notre Dame is helping to solve ily and friends for help. Tom will go on to get him out of that problems in society." Kelly <Director of NVA) just wheelchair.'' In recognition of went to work and did a great Indeed it has. Since 1985 the Buoniconti's exemplary com­drive to cure paralysis has munity service, Rosenthal pre-see USFG, page 12 
Digger deserves better from Irish student body 
At Duke, students stand in line all night--sometimes all 
week--for a chance to see their beloved Blue Devils on the 
basketball court. At Indiana, students stay up all night for 
a chance to buy tickets for half of the Hoosier games. 
At Notre Dame, students need only to walk five minutes 
to the JACC, write a check and be guaranteed a reserved 
seat for all17 games. Maybe that's just too easy. 
Greg Guffey 
Sports Writer 


At most other schools, students stand for the entire game no matter who the opponent and they never cheer for a rival squad. At Notre Dame, students--when they bother to show up at all--often sit and rarely cheer during the less-exciting games. 
Digger Phelps has built one of the most respected col­legiate programs in the country, one built on academics as well as athletics. He graduates players not only into the NBA, but also into the job world. His success rate is unequaled, with 63 of the 63 players graduating that have used their eligibility. 
Yet sometime during these early-season games, Joe 
see DIGGER, page 14 







