------------~--­
IACCENT: WVFI Sounds good IVIEWPOINT: Ritz: a decent hotel 
Put on a happy face 
Gray skies are gonna clear up...with a high the middle 70s. Increasing cloudiness and not as cool Wednesday night. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 22 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
, 


Voter registration drive underway 
ND wants informed voters 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Mike Keegan, Executive News Staff Coordinator for Political, Cultural, and Social Con­
Student Government is cerns, and John Hamill, sponsoring a voter regist[a­Political Concerns Commis­tion to encourage informed sioner, are leading the voter student voting, not just the registration project. participation itself. "Registering to vote is a 
Tables for voter registra­very important thing to. do tion were set up in both and we think that the Stu­dining halls during lunch dent Government is the ap­and dinner yesterday and propriate body to sponsor the registration will con­it," said Hamill. Hamill tinue today. There also will added that in the past many be a table set up in LaFor­individuals and small tune Student Center from 2-4 
VOTERS, page 7

p.m. see 
SMC encourages voting 
By ANN BRENNAN 
News Staff 
With election day 1ess than two months away, students at St. Mary's are getting ready to cast their ballots. 
Sophomores Kristen Swanson and Cindy Coulter of the Government Club, with the support of Campus Ministry, SMC Peacemakers, Student Gov­ernment and Vice President for Student Affairs Lisa Hill have organized a program to encoura e students to re is­
.,•.,,i 
·.· . . 
~'~~ ··~,~~~,·-~­
>,:,.-'.v• 
.."f' . :..:..~! ­
ter as voters either in In­diana or in their home states through absentee ballots. 
Swanson explained that students are eligible to reg­ister to vote in Indiana if they have not registered already in their home state. Furthermore, students who have registered at home may transfer their ballot to Indiana while they are a stu­dent in Indiana. In addition, the organization will provide information about voting in 

The ~rver I Trey Reymond 
Tim Gerkin helps Julie Haskins,· Rob Brantinan and encourage students to vote in the upcoming elections. John Steffan register to vote in the South Dining Hall. See related story at left. The registration table is part of a campus drive to 




Pamphlet explains 
rights of minors 
By LAUREL VITALE 
News Staff 
What rights does an un­deraged drinker have upon ar­rest? 
This is one of the important questions Saint Mary's Judicial Board has addressed in their newly issued pamphlet en­titled, "Saint Mary's Students Behind Bars: Your Next Case Might Be a Court Case," de­signed to familiarize students with the penalties for un­deraged drinking and their rights in situations involving alcohol. 
Peggy Kramer has been commissioner of the nine mem­ber Student Judicial Board for the past two years. She thought of the pamphlet as a result of the crackdown on underaged drinking during the 1986-1987 tive incidents." 
These questions were then taken to Linda Scopelitis, director of the Pre-trial Diver­sion Program of the South Bend Prosecutor's Office. Under her guidance Kramer answered these questions clearly and composed the pamphlet by No­vember, 1987. 
In addition to explaining the process of pre-trial diversion, the pamphlet illustrates the consequences of entering a bar or party with false identifica­tion and the actions which con­stitute resisting arrest. 
"We have received positive feedback so far because there was a need in our community to know minors' rights in situ­ations involving alcohol," Kramer said. "We are hoping the issuance of this pamphlet 

school year. Kramer referred will be a deterrent to minor
. :\.,-:"A. ... ·,~._ 
' ' :: ~· • . # ·~ ' ' ' ~ specifically to the large drinking." 
amount of Saint Mary's and The pamphlet is being dis­
,,'If' . ·"· ~ w 
ij' .a • ·.. ·.,t•"",:._~,..\• Notre Dame students ticketed tributed in Saint Mary's dorms 
.~,. . ' "!,~ ', . ,. • 
0 
.. ...:· ;.~ , . at Lee's Ribs in 1987. this week. Any Saint Mary's or 
. -. '.· ~~... ' 
~ ,_,.. .• -,.,,>1.1". ......, 
"I felt the J-board should be Notre Dame student who would . '. .'..__.:..;:_·· --. 
more than a disciplinary like a copy but has not received Lucky ducks The Observer I Trey Raymond body," Kramex: said. "We one should contact the 
Hungry water fowl gather around Helen Read and ·yell, these ducks may opt to stay on campus this asked minors questions they Residance Life and Housing Of­Ann Puetz at Saint Mary's lake Tuesday. If fed this winter rather than fly south. had concerning their respec-fice at Saint Mary's. 
Wednesday, September 21, 1988

page 2 The Observer 
iNSIDE COLUMf~ 


Fetal tissue issue is everybody's business 
IN BRIEF Herb True, University of Notre Dame adjunct professor, said Tuesday he will continue using his flaming hand trick as an audience attention-grabber despite nearly setting a lecture hall on fire. "When was the last time you set your audience on fire?" True joked Tuesday. He was lecturing Monday when he produced a small ball of fire in the palm of his hand. Someone distracted his attention, his hand was burned and he accidently hit a flip chart at the front of the classroom being used for a seminar for the American Amusement and Music Operators Association. The pages caught fire and flames reached the ceiling. No one was hurt in the incident at the Center for Continuing Education. Freshmen election results at Saint Mary's have been tallied. Peggy Abood, Lisa Blair, Melissa Budetti, Meg Dalition, Michelle Delaney, Colleen Durkin, Cathy Fisher, Anne McArdle, Alissa Murphy, Joelle Pouliot, Shanna Ran­dolph, Alysann Sieren, and Kelly Smith were elected to the Freshman Council. A run-off will be held on Friday for the Presidential and Vice Presidential positions be­tween the ticket of of Kelly O'Connell and Kerry Brown, and Susan Zielinski and Lori Marucut. According to Mic­helle Agostino, election commissioner for Saint Mary's student government, O'Connell's ticket received 18 percent of the vote and Zielinski's ticket received 16 percent. Agos­tino said that 59 percent of the freshmen class voted in this year's elections. "That's really high," Agostino added. -The Observer OF INTEREST The Notre Dame Juggling Club is holding an organizational meeting at 4 p.m. in the Fieldhouse Mall. In case of rain, the meeting will be in the Fieldhouse Mall. Welcome to all of those who are interested. Questions, call Shawn at 283-1082. -The Observer Registration for Urban Plunge begins today. Through Urban Plunge, students experience the conditions of injustice, poverty and apathy existing in our cities. Notre Dame students can register at Campus Ministry, the CSC, or with their hall representatives. Saint Mary's students can contanct Campus Ministry, Office of Justice Ecucation, or their h~ll rep. For more info., contact Sue Cumingham (239-5293) at the CSC. Deadline for registra­tion is Monday, Oct. 3. -The Observer Voter Registration will be held through tomorrow during lunch and dinner at the dining halls and from 2 to 4 p.m. at the O'Hara desk in LaFortune Student Center. Students who did not register at home or who did not secure absentee ballots can register here and vote as resi­dents of St. Joseph's County. -The Observer The World Hunger Coalition will have a general meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. All are encourage to attend. -The Observer St. Edward's Hall Forum is sponsoring a series of lectures by prominent members of the University com­munity this semester. Tonight's lecture at 7 features former Ohio Governor Richard Gilligan speaking on "Why I Will Vote for Dukakis" and Prof. Ed Murphy on "Why I Will Vote for Bush." The series features such speakers as University President Emeritus Father Theodore Res­burgh, University President Father Edward Malloy and Head Basketball Coach Digger Phelps and will be held in St. Edward's Hall's first floor lounge. All are invited to attend. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor.. . ....... Alison Cocks Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Val Poletto Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Gliwa ......................................... Becky Pichler Typesetters........ . . . . . . . . . . Mike Kolar ND Day Editor .................... Sandy Roth ........................................ Mark Derwent SMC Day Editor. ... Sarah Demet News Editor..... . . . . . . . . Colleen Cronin Ads Designer .................... Jeff Stelmach Copy Editor .... ..... . .... Rachael Jarosh ............................................. Karen Ruff Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen ........................................ Elisa Arrillago Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy ................................. Shannon McAllister Accent Layout....... ........... Jim Barret Sports Wednesday Editor. Theresa Kelly Sports Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin Tile Olllener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile 0Mener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas· c:d for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writina Tile Olllen'er, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tile Olllener is a member of Tile ~led Prell. All reproduction riahts are reserved.  


,,.. , 
Recent news of medical research using tissue from aborted fetuses has turned quite a few stomachs, including mine. It makes me wonder just where technology is taking us these days. Evidently, it's making others wonder, too. The National Institutes of Health have formed a 21-member advisory committee to investigate 
the scientific, legal and ethical issues surround­
ing the use of aborted fetuses. The committee 
met last weekend in Washington for the first time. The move is laudable, but so far the panel isn't getting to the heart of the matter. 
Father James Burtchaell, a Notre Dame the­ology professor who was named to the commit­tee, said they were given 10 questions to discuss on the practice of using aborted fetuses. Burtchaell added the panel hasn't even looked at all of the questions. 
Why was the panel restricted to 10 questions in the first place? If the group was appointed to investigate the controversial research, they should be permitted to ask away. It.seems very suspicious to me that the NIH would give their own committee members such short rein. What are they afraid of? 
The very idea of using aborted· fetuses for anything is absurd. Some medical researchers believe that transplanting fetal tissue may aid the treatment of certain diseases, such as Parkinson's syndrome and diabetes, the Asso­
ciated Press reported. Please tell me medical technology could not devise a more ethical so­lution to disease research. 
Research that compromises human life in an effort to better it is absurd. Many may argue against the viability of a fetus; we can expect that. But why should we discard the possibility that the aborted fetus was alive, despite an ap­parent lack of evidence? The issue in research using tissue from aborted fetuses is simply one of respect for the dead. 
What about organ donors? Well, donors make that decision themselves. They are at least given a choice. Fetuses aborted in pregnancy aren't given a choice. Perhaps right now we can't be sure the fetus is alive. But can we be sure it isn't? 
Debate over using fetal tissue in medical re­search is currently a question of ethics, not a direct debate on abortion. Burtchaell is right when he says this is a major policy. Abortionists and pro-lifers will will enter this debate sooner or later. It's an issue that should have been settled long ago, but must be addressed. 
When human life begins is a question medical · technology may help answer in the near future. Ultrasound and other techniques enable physicians to detect the fetus' heartbeat at in­creasingly earlier stages. Last I heard, medical 

· -----------------­

RegiS Coccia 
News Editor.. 

;==~=============~~=­

instruments could detect the heartbeat of an 
eight-week~old fetus, well within the first 
trimester of pregnancy. 

Consider that .once the human heart starts beating, it does· not stop permanently until " .death. I think that's a pretty good indication that fetuses are alive a lot earlier than science and various pro-choice groups would allow us to believe. Perhaps modern medicine is only a heartbeat away from proving"that human life 
·begins at conception. 

The so"called landmark Supreme Court deci­
sion legalizing abortion on demand was not one 
of Justice's finest. moments. 'I:he Supreme Court 
acknowledged it did not know when human life 
begins. But the justices didn't give the untold 
millions of fetuses aborted since then the benefit 
of the doubt. That is perhaps the greatest in­
justice ever wrought by the highest court in 
these United States. 

How much do we value human life? Until we 
answer this question for ourselves, the ethics 
of us~ng aborted fetuses for medical research 
will be debated. Vntil we decide for sure that 
some things in the world today are wrong, 
people will c~mtinue arguing to keep them 
around. If this issue turns enough stomachs, 
maybe we can rid ourselves of this sickness 
and make the world a better place. 

................................................................1 Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and WISh her a happy one. By the way ' !1 Laura,we do expect t6 see you dancing 
LaFortune 
on pool tables tonight. ' 


~--·~~;;:;:-p::~7~ 
1 ·~ ~: Available From I ·: SEPT. 21-0CT. 3 
I. 
I 
., 

at SMC: ·• 
I.''.. ND/SMC 48 hour immersion into 

-Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry: Badin Hall and Hesburgh Library -Hall Representatives 
-Office of Justice Education 

1281159 Madaleva Hall -Campus Ministry: 150 Regina -Hall Representatives 
1 
1 


1I ..,,,. 
I I
I

1 
S 
1 
inner-city life 

I I 
E I ;,.:
Act Now 
I For more information, contact the Center for Social ··. · I Concerns at 239-5293 or your dorm representative.1a 
!J~-.'l!-~O-.;;'~~,_'-.~!X.D~~,_,~~~llalt'(,::Gt'-4\'2!«<''~~*1K,~'~W8:'~ 
Wednesday, September 21, 1988 The Observer page 3 

Father Pelton invited to Chile to be an international observer 
By JIM LANG News Staff 
"Guarded optimism" is the outlook of Father Robert Pel-. ton for the uncertain political future of Chile and the incum­bent military regime. 
Pelton, Director of Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Concerns, was r~cently invited to Chile's Defense Committee for the Rights of the People (CODEPU) conferences, held from August 4-6, as one of several international obser­vers. 
One of the aims of the com­mittee was to focus on accusa­tions of human rights violations leveled against Chilean die­tator General Pinochet and his military Junta, said Pelton. 
The Observer I Mike Moran

He's alright Pinochet siezed power from Socialist president Salvadore 
Construction worker Wily Phillips is helped out of an ambulance yesterday 
Allende in a 1973 coup d'etat 

afternoon at the Nieuwland construction site. Phillips suffered severe 
and has ruled since then as a 

chest pains early in the afternoon. After receiving attention from the 
military dictator. According to 

ambulance medics, Phillips was released. 
Pelton, the United States was 

Presidential expert to speak on 1988 election 
Observer Staff Report 
A series of lectures ,on the 1988 presidential campaign, featuring Michael Novak, visit­ing Welch professor of Ameri­can studies, begins tonight at 
7: 30 in the Center for Continu­
ing Education. The three lectures, titled "Choosing Our King, 1988: A Monthly Election Watch," are co-sponsored by the Depart­ment of American Studies and the CCE and will include up­dates on the issues and trends of the campaign. 
Other lectures will take place at 7:30 p.m. on Wed., Oct. 12 and Thurs., Nov. 10. Each ses­sion will explore the campaign "against the philosophical and theological backdrop of the continuing clash of American 
stories and symbols,"  accor­ 
ding to the CCE.  
The  lectures  will  partly  

reflect on the uniqueness of the presidency, report on the cam­paign's turning points, provide 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME & iii if"ltfr f: z&JS 
PRESENT THE HEART AND SOUL ' OF SOUTH AFRICAN SONGI 
SUNDAY OCT. 9 8 P.M. STEPAN CENTER 
RESERVE TICKETS $10 
ONL V $4.00 WITH NO OR SMC STUDENT OR EMPLOYEE 10. 

MIRIAM MAKEBA 
AND 


HUGH MASEKELA 
Tickets Available at• Joyce ACC Box Office 

• LaFortune Box Office 239-7442
~-·.·  ~.  
~~  __nuv  • O'Laughlin Aud. 284-4626  
..,_  ·  ... ,  STUDENT UNION BOARD  

instrumental in Allende's downfall, and worked to des­tabilize his government during his two year presidency. 
During Pinochet's fifteen year rule, Pelton said, Chile un­derwent an economic revival in terms of its Gross National Product and its foreign debts. At the same time, however, there was a complete elimina­tion of the middle class, and it was the rich who saw the benefits of the revival, while the poor maintained their eco­nomic status or sunk into deeper levels of poverty. 
Also during this time, there was "brutal repression of those dissenting from the regime, repression documented by various human rights groups, including Amnesty Interna­tional," Pelton said. 
Many of those in attendance at the CODEPU conferences were victims of this repression, Pelton said, and had suffered torture at the hands of soldiers or served jail sentences for their actions. 
On October 5 of this year, Chilean voters will finally have a chance to cast their votes for or against Pinochet's dictator­ship. 
A vote of yes, Pelton said, is a vote for Pinochet to step down as the military commander-in­chief, but to continue to rule as · a civilian president until March, 1997. A vote of no is a call for Pinochet and his Junta to step down, and for general elections to be held for the President, senators, and deputies in December, 1990. 
"I believe that the election itself will be clean," Pelton said, "but after that . . . in either case I see many prob­lems." 
Pinochet's involvement in Chilean politics stems from his stay there as a Holy Cross mis­sionary from 1964 to 1972. Since then, he has made numerous return trips to study the role of the Roman Catholic Church in Chile. 
a good intellectual interchange and lively debate, a CCE press release stated. 
Although the lectures are billed as the 1988 Fall Faculty Seminar, students and other members of the University community are welcomed, the CCE said. 
Novak, a distinguished scholar of presidential politics, is the director of Social and Po­litical Studies at the American Enterprise Institute in Wash­ington, D.C. 

He has published numerous books, including "Choosing Our King," a 1974 study of the election process. Novak has held the Welch Chair in Amer­ican studies since last year. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ 
0 Call 239-6900 ~ 

the SUB presents 


BRUCE BABBITT 
former governor of Arizona and 
U.S. Democratic Presidential Candidate 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1988 3:00-4:00 PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
Back-up location-Washington Hall 

r------------------~--­
page 4 
,r 
r 
r 
I 
r 
" 
r 
I 
' 
r r 
' 
' 
' 
r r 
I 
I 
' 
r 
I 


--------. 
Wednesday, September 21 , 1988
The ObserVer 

Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and the golden glory of Notre .Dame.... 
. . 
'~In thi:" trea~Hr)' uf menwrabilia, eJiwrs Robert Quakenbush anJ Mike Bynum have cumpriseJ an iYP hrc;.'\ive anJ informative keep~ake about an American · hero, a legenJ who lives on in the hearts of many." SlIL!TH REND TRIRUNE 
... on sale now at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 

Coming soon from October Football Corp. 
Many Autumns Ago: The Frank Leahy Era '· at Boston College and Notre Dame. 

Wednesday, September 21, 1988 5 


I I ~7~ Pesticides lead to 'Wrath of Grapes' 
By MICHELLE LAROSE Both students plan to talk to News Staff various campus groups about the issues and show a tape of 
A bitter debate between mi­"The Wrath of Grapes," a film grant workers and Southern distributed by Chavez, showing California vineyard owners on the harmful effects of grape the use of pesticides has drawn pesticides. , the attention of two Notre The film depicts the workers' Dame students this year who reports of illness and the rise hope to promote campus of serious birth defects in awareness of harmful pes­children born of migrant ticides. workers. It also details the in­
The California laborers, led ordinately high incidence of by activist Cesar Chavez, who cancer in children in surround­
·-. 

The Observer I Trey Raymond spoke at Notre Dame last ing communities. The film 
of your

VIsiting Welch Chair Director c>f Social and of American Studies, Political Studies, 

best friend. 

University of Notre Dame American Enterprise Institute 
Wednesday, September 21 
Now,

Wednesday, October 12 Thursday, November 10 


think 

ALL SESSIOJYS BEGIN AT 7:30PM 

of your 

CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 

best friend 

A monthly update on the issues, trends, probabilities, and significance of the 1988 presidental campaign--against philosophical and theological backdrop of the continuing clash of American stories 

dead. 
Dm't drive diunk.

and mbols 
Light up the nig~t 
Sean and the Sun Kings light up Haggar Parlour at entertainment on tuesday evenings throughout the Saint Mary's Tuesday evening. Their performance academic year. was part of the Club Tuesday series which sponsers 
ARTHUR 




ANDERSEN 

~CO 
We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Dame seniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you to attend a reception to find out about 
. . . 

career opportunities In our Management Information Consulting Division. 
September 27, 1988 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Morris Inn -Notre Dame Room 


THE CENTER FOR 

CIOOIIIO OIB Kill, 1-:~t!'IIOI'fBL 
A SERIES OF 3 LECTURES IICBAIIi " 101M 

spring, argue their families, theorizes that pesticides seep communities and ultimately into ground water consumed by the consumer are threatened the children. by use of the pesticides Captan, Vineyard owners, however, parathion, Phosdin, Dinoseb claim there is no substantial and methyl bromide. They evidence supporting the further claim these pesticides workers' claim of the increased are unnecessary for the growth health risk due to the use of pes­of a healthy crop of grapes, and . ticides. They also cite strict that the owners use them only federal laws dictating the safe to improve the fruit's market use of the chemicals, and claim appearance. that the high cost of pesticides 
Seniors Celeste Freind and­severely limits the extent to Tony Tramontin became inter­which they are used. ested in the migrant workers' "Basically our main concern problem after Chavez visited is to get people to see what's campus. going on. There are so many 
"Although I didn't attend his people who don't realize that lecture, one of my friends who the use of pesticides could di­went became so adamant about rectly affect their lives," said boycotting the grapes that I Freind. wanted to find out more about She added that a recent Food it," Freind said. and Drug Administration sur­
Freind and Tramontin have vey found the residues of 30 been devoting research time to pesticides on a sample of Cali­identifying the issues and fornia table grapes. learning more about the pes­"The Wrath of Grapes" will ticides themselves. "It's be shown Thursday, Sept. 22 at amazing how toxic the chemi­7 p.m. in the Center for Social cals are. One of them, parat­Concerns, Tramontin said. 
hion, can kill you if only a tea­"Hopefully after seeing the spoon is spilled on you. And film students will choose to they are sending the workers boycott the grapes. But if they out into the field an hour after don't, at least they'll be aware they've sprayed," Tramontin of the problem," he said. said. 
County judge wants to be excused from jury duty 
Associated Press caseload makes federal jury service a hardship." 
CINCINNATI --One good Elliott said Monday his court turn deserves another, even on receives four new cases a day jury duty. and schedules 12 cases for trial 
Judge George Elliott of But­each week. ler County Common Pleas But U.S. district Judge Carl Court was called to federal jury Rubin in 1985 served on a service and wants to be ex­Hamilton County Common cused. Pleas Court jury and asked El­
The liott to reconsider. 
Rubin said his own jury ex­perience gave him a broader perspective. Rubin also wrote to say that federal jury service likely would be brief. 
"I think it highly unlikely that you would be required to serve more than three or four days at the most," Rubin wrote. "If, however, despite, the foregoing, you still seek to be excused, I will do so." 

Think 


Associated Press 
Democrat Michael Dukakis proposed a broad health insur­ance program for American workers Tuesday and told Re­publican rival George Bush "it's about time you came out from behind that flag" and ad­dressed the issue. Bush draped himself in patriotism, visiting the nation's largest flag manu­facturer. 
Dukakis, seeking support from working people, said the federal government should enact legislation requiring most employers to provide basic health insurance benefits for employees and dependents. 
"I think it's time we did something," said Dukakis. He said he wanted to extend health insurance to all Americans, and that the first step would be to provide it to working people through their employers. 

Wednesday, September 21, 1988 
Senate may raise minimum wage for first time in 8 years 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Senate Democrats maneuvered Tues­day to force a vote on raising the $3.35 minimum wage for the first time in eight years, stop­ping just short of accusing Republicans of filibustering the issue in deference to presidential politics. 
"We've been discussing the minimum wage since last week and haven't voted on a single amendment," complained Sen. Alan Dixon. "We are behind the curve. The people in this country realize you can't even hire people at a $3.35 minimum wa e." 
Vice President George Bush's presidential campaign said Tuesday that Bush likely would not unveil any specific minimum wage proposal until after his debate next Sunday with Democratic nominee Mi­chael Dukakis. 
"We're exploring a modest increase so long as its tied to a subminimum or training wage," said David Sandor, a Bush campaign spokesman. "But there's nothing scheduled for this week." 
Labor Secretary Ann McLaughin, meanwhile, was said by officials to be preparing a statement on behalf of the ad­ministration 



---GOVERNMENT
Happy Birthday Scamper 

Notre Dame lA1W School
from 

presents a lecture by
John '91 and Graham '94 

Professor Donald H. J. Hermann Director, Health Law Institute DePaul University College of Law 
on "Stemming the Transmission of AIDS" 
Thursday, Sept. 22 Noon Room 220 Law :School Courtroom
Move Over Darby O'Gill, II. Scamper is Coming to ND -too! 




-I I. . 
THE THOMAS J. 
Campaign aides said the first phase of Dukakis' program would give benefits to about 22 
w~r&~~~r;~
million people who have none. 


air products & chemicals arthur andersen & co. the boeing company 
I I 

caterpillar, inc delco electronics corp. 
I 

dow corning eli lilly & co. 
-
ford car product dvlmt. 
I 

icl americas, inc. indiana bell 
• proctor & gamble kurt salmon assootot8~. inc 
Industry Fair Day 
wednesday, september 2 7 7 7 .·DO am to 4:00pm first floor fitzpatrick 
Great way to obtain summer 
& 

permanent employment 
amoco oil & co. at&t bell laboratories brooklyn union gas central intelligence agency 
' 
navy naval avionics dow chemica!, usa exxon research & eng. co. general mills. inc ibm 
rohm & haas salomn brothers 


tellabs 
vista chemical co. 


Wednesday, September 21, 1988 

The Observer page 7 
we hope to compile as much in­Representatives from the three formation as possible on groups will work at the tables
Voters 
presidential and local · candi­and provide information for the 
continued from page 1 
dates/' voters on campus, Hamill groups have sponsored "In addition to the Informa­added. registrations but that this year tion Desk we will also issue is the first campus wide posters in the residence dorms Hamill said that registeringregistration drive. with information about the in Indiana is a good idea be­
Keegan and Hamill also plan various candidates. Another cause " students will be here to run a Voter Information part of the Campaign is to print for four years and for nine Campaign that will begin on cards for the dining hall tables. months of each year they will October 1 and continue through Each card would discuss a spe­be living in the state of Indiana. November 1. Keegan explains cific issue of the presidential They should worry about the is­that, "I think what John campaign with a side dedicated sues that affect them. It is also (Hamill) and I didn't want was to the Democratic view and the more convenient because the people registering and voting other to the Republican," said student does not have to mail without the necessary informa­Keegan. the registration and absentee tion. We would like the students Student Body Vice President ballot." 
to get information and have Mike Paese said that the idea well educated votes, not just of a Student Government spon­Keegan added that "Once a votes." sored registration "started last student re~isters here, theyThis campaign will include a spring when President Tom can just re-register at home table in LaFortune open Mon­Doyle and I were running for after they graduate. It is not a 
day through Friday from 12-6 office. One of our campaign problem because the Indiana 
p.m. This table will make in­promises was to try to make registration is nullified when formation pertaining to the the campus more politically you register in another state." 
local and national elections aware." available Keegan said. The Keegan said that the voter representatives working at the Hamill said that student rep­registration is a success so far. table will offer unbaised ma­resentatives from the Dukakis "On Tuesday, students were terials about the various can­Campaign and the Young sent for more forms. The didates, said Keegan, adding, Republicans were joining the LaFortune desk ran out of bal­"We started collecting materi­Student Government Cam­lots at three o'clock due to the als last week and by October paign for voter registration. great demand,'' he added. 
Getting an absentee ballot hall and in Madeleva Hall this can often be a difficult and con­week through Thursday, and
SMC 
fusing process. Senior Jackie offers students a chance to par­continued from page 1 Hengesbaugh, despite in-· ticipate in this year's election. 
quiries to the board of elections Without this opportunity, many person before November 7. Stu­and the post office was, like students would not have the dents from all states except many others, unable to find in­chance to vote, and Henges­Kentucky are able to vote over formation concerning an ab­baugh feels that "as a collegeOctober break if they have not sentee ballot. Fortunately the student it is important to take registered in Indiana or ob­voter registration committee an active role in politics tained an absentee ballot. has a table set up in the dining today." 
~***************************ie 

: NOTREDAMEAPARTMENTS t 
: COMPLETELY FURNISHED t
* 2 BEDROOM APTS iC 
* iC
lt RENT AS LOW AS iC 
: $99.00 A MON7H t
* iC
* iC 
: OFFICE AT 820 NO AVE ~ 234-6647 """ : CALL ANYTIME FOR APPT. AND INFO. 
t 
* iC 
*****************************. 







VOTER 
REGISTRATION 
If you did not reg­ister at home, you can register here in St. Joseph County and vote as citizens of the state of Indiana. 

* 
North and South Dining Halls (Lunch ~d Dinner) 

* 
LaFortune Student Center (2 -4 PM) 




Another revolt feared in Haiti 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti ­
Soldiers from six units ousted 
their commanders as a revolt 
spread through the military 
Tuesday, as the new president 
appointed a military chief and 
appealed for an end to the un­
rest. · .. 
Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril, who 
declared himself president 
early Sunday following a coup, 
said Haiti's military govern­
ment was taking steps to 
satisfy "the most urgent 
demands of the members of the 
armed forces." 
But reports of reprisal kil­
lings, demonstrations and a 
rash of military mutinies con­
tinued to grow. 
"I'm afraid we're on the eve 
of another insurrection," a gov­
ernment official said privately. 
Radio stations said gunmen killed four people in apparent reprisal for the Sept. 11 mas­sacre of 13 people during a Mass at a Roman Catholic church and other atrocities linked to the government of the deposed president, Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy. 
Nine other people have been reported killed since Avril seized power. The coup was led by non-commissioned officers and lower-ranking soldiers in Namphy's own presidential guard. Namphy was exiled to the Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti. 
Soldiers who staged the coup had demanded of the military command that Avril be put in power, that the military be reorganized, and that demo­cratic reforms be brought to Haiti, including free elections, sources said. 
During the ceremony outside the ~ational Palace, Avril said 
he was aware of "numerous 
problems" within the armed 
forces but urged his troops "to 
stay calm, not to adopt atti­
tudes which may expose the in­
stitution to wanton criticisms 
and affect the spirit of unity 
and solidarity which the new 
government is seeking." 
The president, shown on 
state-run television wearing a 
dress uniform, spoke from the 
palace steps to a gathering of 
about 200 soldiers representing 
all units of the 7,000-man 
Haitian army. 
At the ceremony, Avril an­
nounced the appointment of a 
new armed forces commander­
in-chief, Maj. Gen. Herard 
Abraham, who was foreign 
minister under Namphy. 
Abraham's appointment con­
firmed speculation that Lt. Col. 
Jean-Claude Paul, commander 
of the dreaded 700-man Des­
salines Battalion military unit, 
would not assume command of 
the army. 
The United States is seeking 
Paul's extradition to face 
federal drug charges in 
Florida. White House spokes­
man Marlin Fitzwater in Wash­
ington said Monday that Paul's 
elevation to army chief would 
have been an "indication of the 
difficulties we will have with 
this government." 
Namphy led a junta that ran Haiti for most of the 2 years since Jean-Claude Duvalier was forced into exile in February 1986. 
There was no announcement of an army reorganization during Avril's address. The an­nouncement had been expected Monday, but a goverment offi­cial said the high command was hesitating to make it, fearing a loss of its authority. 
It was unclear if that spurred the unrest among soldiers . 


Viewpoint
page 8 
P.O. Box Q 
Ritz owners resent column 
Dear Editor: 
As the owners of The Ritz Hotel, we felt compelled to respond to the article by Mark McLaughlin in the Sept. 12 publication of The Observer. 
The insinuations that something ille­gal is taking place at The Ritz are not only ludicrous but also way out of line. We sometimes advertise our phone number as 289-LOVE, and the LOVE is, in our opinion, a novel idea. The 289 however, which Mr. McLaughlin analyzed to spell BUY, is the work of Indiana Bell. We hope that Mr. McLaughlin devotes as much time to his studies as he apparently did in this determination. This type of deciphering 
r is reminiscent of that used by groups 
r 
who play rock music backwards to find r evidence of devil worship. 
~. There are several reasons our build­ing cannot be entered until the desk clerk "buzzes" you in, but to "look you over to make sure you are not a cop" is not one of them. In fact, many "cops'' and their wives or girlfriends have been guests of The Ritz, and we offer a dis­count to all law enforcement officers. We strictly enforce our "single or double occupancy only" policy, and the door buzzer helps the clerk keep track of people entering and leaving the building. The buzzer also provides se­curity for the hotel employees. 
Those insinuations, and the comment regarding the nature of our establish­ment, inspired a woman, who identified herself as the mother of a Notre Dame student, to call The Ritz the day the article was published. She called to let 
.------------------. 
Correction 
In John Raphael's Sept. 19 guest column addressing his objections to "The Last Temptation of Christ," two typographical errors caused confusion. The incorrect sentences should have read: 
" .. .In no way do I feel that viewing the movie would add to what I have written. I feel that it is a moral obliga­tion to avoid this type of attack on Chris­tianity, and in no way would I contrib­ute to the financial success of the producers." 
Doonesbury 
us know that she is going to recruit mot­hers of students to attempt to close down our establishment. The Ritz is what we advertise it to be and nothing more. Mr. McLaughlin's comments were slanderous, and we do not appre­ciate nor deserve such intimations. The Ritz does not now, nor have we ever, provided companionship. 
The brochure the writer "snagged" is one of thousands we freely hand out and send through the mail. They are not the prized possession he seemed to think his was. In fact, the clerk who took him on the tour probably handed it to him on his arrival. We also state in our brochure, "guests must provide their own alcoholic beverages." Mr. McLaughlin's selection of items from our brochure omitted that particlular item. The term "Champagne Suite" originated from the manufacturer of the heart-shaped whirlpools. 
The "etc." after our listing of bath­room amenities includes mouthwash, water glasses, and hairdryers. We would hope that the "adults" who stay in our hotel practice safe sex without our help. We do not provide condoms, nor do we promote sex or promiscuity. We do promote romance and intimacy between people who care about each other. 
As Mr. McLaughlin stated, the hotel is quite nice. As for the clientele we "try to cater to," they are quite nice also. Our 4-hour Getaways are very popular with couples who have children and find it impossible to stay out all night. On Saturday nights, approxi­mately half of our guests are honeymooners. We decorate rooms and provide cakes and decorations for many couples who are celebrating 
birthdays and anniversaries. 
Mr. McLaughlin entered our hotel 
with a purpose: to gather information 
to write an article presenting The Ritz 
as a questionable advertiser in Univer­
sity materials. Is he aware that we have 
advertised in the University Directory 
for the past two years? The University 
did not ask us to advertise. The pub­
lisher of the service directory just 
called on us like all of the other busi­
nesses who placed ads. 
We realize that many students are 
not happy with the administration's 
policy regarding alcohol, but is it fair to slander our business (or even involve us at am because of that conflict? We run a respectable hotel and have in­vested much time and money toward achieving a good standing in the com­munity. We donate rooms to help raise money for schools, churches, the families for seriously ill or injured per­sons, muscular dystrophy, and the list goes on. 
Far be it for us to say that Mr. McLaughlin has analyzed the situation a little too deeply to try to make a point (and a weak one at that), but the only "intent" anyone had was to reach the goal of all businesses; that of increas­ing profits. On the other hand, maybe we should thank Mr. McLaughlin for reaching out a bit far on this issue. With the exception of the mother who called to disapprove of The Ritz, the article has sparked some positive interest by the student body. It would seem that many students were not even aware of our ad until they read the article, and the comments we found unacceptable have been overlooked by some. 
Of course, we realize that many people at Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and throughout the community will not visit our hotel because of that article; and, therefore, we personally invite every­one to stop out, take a tour, and judge for yourself. 
Valri Harber-Platz John Platz, Sr. Owners, The Ritz Sept. 20, 1988 

Social work enriches life at NO 
Dear Editor: 
I am a 1987 graduate, currently a second year in Notre Dame's London law school program and an RA with the junior Arts and Letters London pro­gram. I've never written to The Obser­ver before, however, when I saw the "activities night" advertised in an Ob­server that an undergrad received over here a couple of days ago, I decided to write. I wish to encourage students at Notre Dame to give three hours a week to the social concerns volunteer pro­gram of their choice. Two years hindsight convinces me that these ac­tivities were the most important things I did in college. 
Garry Trudeau 
FOUNO IT!
/)(JKAK/5 YeAH, I'M CAUING 
Y&5TERI?AY'S M&SSA6U HOW ON, 
"PIQ< UP !JR.Y
CAMPA16N, AEJOUT Y£5TeRPAY's 
ITt: GrJT IT Hf3R& SOMI3PI.Aa3 ••• 
a&ANIN6 AT...II
M&SSAGB M?73A6t-OF-7Hf3­
NO... N0...50RRY, MYOFFIC& IS
l CONTROL.. PAY. IT /.f/A'3N7 ON 
NO, NO, THAT'S
5UCH A... COUW YOU HOW? I'LL 
NOT IT...
NE!P/5 
GO WOI<. ON 7H& GOVBRNOR.''3 
LA~ 
{}&51<. ~ vr~ 
NIGHT. 
~ ~---'•/'.h= 
Wednesday, September 21, 1988 
The range of opportunities you are offered at Notre Dame is exceptional. The Center for Social Concerns lists numerous activities, among the jail ministry, students assisting students, projects with South Bend's homeless, tutoring at many levels, visiting nur­sing homes, DISMASS House, CILA's Mexico Volunteer Program, Peace Corps internships, Logan Center, Big Brothers-Big Sisters, and Urban Plunge. Moreover, it will never be easier for you to volunteer: everyone can find an option suited to their inter­ests, everyone has needed talents and everyone has three hours per week (free enough) to participate. 
In particular, I want to promote the last three programs I listed above. The Logan Center needs volunteers for its Saturday morning "rec" sessons, scorers for its bowling league, and people for its other weekly activities. Try this if you want to learn something fundamental about human dignity. Big Brothers-Big Sisters needs recruits to fill its constant waiting list of children from single-parent homes. Being a Big Brother or Big Sister "match" to one of these children can be an exception­ally rewarding experience because your effect on the child is often self­evident, as is the mutual friendship you develop. You may also gain a new ap­preciation of your own privileges. Fi­nally, everyone should at some time go on one of the Urban Plunges directed by the esc to recognize what is "reality" for many people. Talk with Mary Ann Roemer or Fr. Don McNeill . at the esc for other suggestions. 
Everyone has three hours. 
Lou Brenner 
1987 Alumnus 
Sept. 16, 1988 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to 
P.O. Box Q, View­
point  Department,  
Notre  Dame,  IN.  
46556  


Quote of the Day 
"Peace must be realized in Truth; it must be built upon justice; it must be animated in love; it must be brought to being in freedom." 
Pope John XXIII (1881-1963) 
The Observer Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ........................ , ....... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coc.cia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tf;le University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controlfer .......................................... Todd Hardiman
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager......... .. ... Marga Bruns
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 



Accent
Wednesday, September 21, 1988 page 9 
transcribed from a tape made 
at the dinner table of Albert Einstein's home, a few weeks after he discovered the The­
Conversations of "mundanity"? 
ory of Relativity. 
orne of you may be and Boo-Boo Bear spon­S surprised to learn that in taneously combusting that spite of my mega-cool Secret­caused the fires. PeopleAgent-Man persona, in spite really do spontaneously burst of my reputation as a crack into flames, sometimes, youinvestigative journalist, I swl know. KEVIN WALSH Conversations I'd like to hear have time to think about the But that's neither whim nor little things. wham, as a slightly un­For instance, I'm still puz­balanced relative of mine zling over this inside rumor says. What I'm really trying about the real cause of those for here has nothing to do fires in Yellowstone Park. I with two smarter-than-the­heard that it was really Yogi average-bears igniting on Sat­ urday morning television. I've really been thinking a lot lately about all the conversa­tions that occur every day throughout history. We only hear a minute fraction of them. But what about the ones we don't hear? I've tried to narrow it down to two. The first one is purely a creation of my mind, sort of a Fantasy Conversation, if you will. If you will, that is, allow me to tag my sentences with pretentious expressions like " ... if you will ... " Garfield, Insufferably Smug Cartoon Feline, Meets Jason, Criminally Insane Psycho  Murderer: GARFIELD: I live for weekends. Boy, dieting stinks. Life bores you when you're perfect. I'm a party animal. JASON: (various mucous sounds) GARFIELD: I hate Mondays. Shopping is my life. JASON: (labored breathing, slug-snorting) GARFIELD: Big fat hairy deal. (The sound of a chainsaw starting. The sound of a blood-curdling, hig~-pitched shriek. Muffled laughter. Snot sounds.) Actually, I guess that was less a conversation than it was a homocide. Oh well. The next conversation was  EINSTEIN: Ho boy! Whatta day ... MRS. EINSTEIN: Now Al­bert ... EINSTEIN: Pass the damn butter .... (Sounds of clinking plates) EINSTEIN: My peas are cold again! I don't believe it! It is obvious that this shows a rare insight into the man, the lover, the misunderstood genius that was Albert Einstein. So, through all this, what have we learned? That fa­mous people are just like you and me? That everybody is vulnerable to occasional bursts of "mundanity?" Even newspaper colum­nists?  
Unique radio JULIE SHEPHERD primarily on progressive accent writer music. WVFI can be found at 640 M usic is often seen as a AM, from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. all means of escaping week long. The station is lo­ Hughes. Not only does its musical format give WVFI a sense of individuality, but the freedom granted to the disc jockeys also sets it aside from other radio stations in fJJ.e South Bend area. ·  way WVFI adds variety to its format. Along with the pro­gressive music which is played the majority of air time, the station also runs special show and this helps widen audience appeal.  and coaches. Another university-related program is "Campus Perspective" and it introduces guests who speak about events and issues per­taining to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. This show is broad­cast on Thursday at 10-11  
anxieties and frustrations. But for some students, in­stead of serving as an outlet, the repetition and lack of originality in a radio station can only add to these difficul­ties. WVFI (the Voice of the Fighting Irish), however, seems to have that fresh ex­citement and uniqueness that many people seek. "The whole basis of the station is to play a format that is dif­ferent than any other sta­tion," said manager Dan Janick of WVFI, a student-run radio station that focuses  cated on the second floor of LaFortune and employs ap­proximately 200 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. "The students pretty much run the show and there is very little administrative involvement," said Janick. WVFI also gives students the opportunity to become familiar with many new mu­sical groups. "Nobody can digest all of the new music that is released and by turn­ing to WVFI, you can get ex­posed to some of it at least," said senior disc jockey and production manager Andy  According to program su­pervisor Carrie Thomas, fifty percent of the disc jockey's show is comprised of his or her selections and requests from listeners. "College radio is special because the deejay is allowed the freedom to play what he wants and we emphasize that at WVFI," said Thomas. "They also get a lot of input from listeners and in most cases these re­quests are played right away." WVFI's request line number is 239-6400. The staff's individual musi­cal tastes are not the only  The special programs in­clude WVFI's top 10 show on Tuesday at 9-10 p.m., an oldies show on Wednesday at 3-5 p.m., an urban contem­pory show on Thursday at 9­11 a.m., a hardcore show on Saturday at 9~11 p.m. and a heavy metal show on Sunday at 7-9 p.m. WVFI also presents "Speaking of Sports" which is broadcast on Tuesday at 10-11 p.m. and features a call-in format for listeners and guests such as football players, basketball players  p.m. News, weather, sports and concert reports are also announced at various times throughout the day. The diversity and originality are what makes WVFI the unique radio sta­tion that it is. Not only can students learn more about music through WVFI, but they can also learn about themselves. Perhaps senior disc jockey Joe Medel sum­marizes WVFI best when he said, "It is a mind-broadening experience. If you're into new experiences, listen to WVFI."  

Advertising success 
COLIN FLEMING accent writer 
A
dWorks, Notre Dame's own full-fledged, indepen­dently operated advertising agency, has been in operation since 1983. The AdWorks com­pany has grown into one of the most successful business organizations on campus. Run entirely by a student staff, the agency provides quality advertising services for all of Notre Dame's clubs and or­ganizations. 
Some of the things AdWorks does for its clients are the design and production of ad­vertising posters, flyers, and novelty products, a complete resume service, and a logo design service. Its staff has at its disposal over 4,000 novelty products, from fly swatters to footballs to T­shirts with which to promote 
Calvin and Hobbes 
an organization or event. The little blue footballs that Uni­versity Food Services passed out at a picnic this year were designed and produced by AdWorks. 
According to the president of AdWorks, Dan Baldino, one of the most useful and practi­cal services they provide is the resume service. 
Everyone at one point or another needs quality resumes for job applications, and AdWorks has the capabli.ty to provide them. The staff will do resumes for half of what most services charge, and the profes­sionalism is unmatched. The staff designs the resume format on Macintosh com­puters, and then offers choices of print and paper for the final product. 
There are about 80 students on the AdWorks staff, some on salary and some who volun­teer. The students are in all 
types off academic majors, 
from graphic design, market­
ing, and business, to econom­
ics, history and English. 
Not all of the students intend to work in advertising for a career, but they still like working for the experience of involvement in a business. Staff members learn a lot of skills : such as the mechanics of operating a business, solicitation of new clients, in­teraction with business as­sociates, and maintaining a healthy business environment. 
Dan Baldino says that Ad­Works is a microcosm of a big­business advertising agency. He says, "Because it is so similiar to a large advertising company, what the staff learns and the benefits from their ex­periences become that much more valuable. All the hard work they put in is extremely satisfying. Working with other students, providing a great ser­vice, and getting the job done well are things AdWorks staff members could learn from few other places." 
Bill Watterson 
11r11T CJIJGHT 1\E£ ~~~ llEE ! TD BLOW ~~ I~ ~LW~~S CIRCiliTS f..\ W~~ID) 'TD Do W.S~! SCM£1\1\~G 
l 
.-.#'(". L\1(£ 1'1-1"'1 

t"~~ ­
I 
·t-..,. _j 
The Observer 



Sports Wednesday 
eage 10 Wednesday, September 21, 1988 
AP Football Poll Sports Calendar lnterhall Football _ Spo~ts__!..ists 
AP Top Twenty 
Home games in CAPS PARSEHIAN LEAGUE
The Top Twenty college football teams in The 
WLTPet. PF PA
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren-Dillon 1 0 01.000 7 0theses, this season's records and total points. Points Wednesday Keenan 1 0 01.000 14 8based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
Volleyball at Purdue Flanner 0 0 1 .500 0 0 
are italicized. 
Morrissey 0 0 1 .500 0 0
Women's soccer vs. WHEATON, 7:30 
Off-Campus 0 1 0 .000 0 7
1. Miami 2-0-0 1,171 p.m. 
Grace 0 1 0 .000 8 142. UCLA 3-0-0 1,104 LEAHY LEAGUE
3. Oklahoma 2-0-0 1,016 4. Auburn 2-0-0 900 Thursday 
Stanford 1 0 01.000 23 0
5. usc 2-0-0 859 
No sports scheduled Cavanaugh 0 0 1 .500 0 0
6. Georgia 3-0-0 802 Zahm 0 0 1 .500 0 07. LSU 2-0-0 794 Alumni 0 0 0 .000 0 08. Notre Dame 2~ 753 Friday Holy Cross 0 1 0 .000 0 239. Florida State 2-1-0 739 ROCKNE LEAGUE
10. 
Nebraska 2-1-0 639 Men's tennis at Navy Tournament 

11. 
West Virginia 3-Q-0 609 Men's soccer vs. WESTERN MIG· 


St. Ed's 1 0 01.000 18 012. Clemson 2-1-0 577 
HIGAN, 7:30p.m. Fisher 0 0 1 .500 6 613. Alabama 1-0-0 455 
Women's soccer vs. ADRIAN, 5:00p.m. Sarin 0 0 1 .500 6 6
14. South Carolina 3-0-0 417 Carroll 0 0 0 .000 0 0
15. Penn State 2-0-0 354 Volleyball vs. RICE, 7:30 p.m. 
Pangborn 0 1 0 .000 0 18
16. Pitt 2-0-o 230 
17. Washington· 2-Q-0 229 Last Sunday's Results
Saturday
18. Oklahoma State 1-0-0 175 
... 
Dillon 7, Off-Campus 0 19. Michigan 0-2-0 169 Football vs. PURDUE, 12:10 p.m. Flanner 0, Morrissey o 20. Florida 3-0-0 89 
Men's tennis at Navy Tournament Keenan 14, Grace 8
Alao reclevlng votn:Wyoming, Indiana, Arkansas, Cavanaugh 0, lahm 0Oregon, BYU, Colorado, Duke, Arizona State, North Stanford 23, Holy Cross 0Carolina State, Houston, Texas, Vanderbilt, Wash-Sunday Fisher 6, Sarin 6ington State, Air Force,Ohio State, Western Mic-St. Ed's 18, Pangborn 0 
Men's tennis at Navy Tournament 
higan. 
Next Sunday's Games
Women's soccer vs. ST. JOSEPH'S, 3 
Stanford vs. Cavanaugh, N. Stepan, 2 p.m
Regional Soccer Poll p.m. 
Zahm vs. Alumni, S. Stepan, 1 p.m. 
St. Ed's vs. Fisher N. Stepan, 4 p.m.
Men's soccer vs. BIRMINGHAM
This week'sGreat Lakn Region Coaches' Soccer Sarin vs. Carroll N. Stepan 1 p.m.
Poll. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized . SOUTHERN, 1 p.m. 
Keenan vs. Flanner, N. Stepan, 3 p.m.
1. Indiana 6-0-1 50 
OC vs. Grace, S. Stepan, 2 p.m.
2. Evansville 4-1-1 45 Morrissey vs. Dillon, S. Stepan, 3 p.m.
Monday
3. Akron 4-1-1 39 
4. Notre Dame 6-0-1 36 No sports scheduled WOMEN's INTERHALL 5. Wisconsin 6-1-0 30 
w L T Pet. PF PA 6. Cleveland State 3-1-1 24 
Tuesday Lewis 0 01.000 24 18 7. Bowling Green 3-3-0 21 
PW 0 01.000 12 6 
8. Wright State 5-1-0 15 Volleyball vs. NORTHWESTERN, 7:30 Lyons 1 0 01.000 8 0 9. Cincinnati 3-2-0 6 
p.m. PE 1 0 01.000 6 0 10. Western Kentucky 3-2-1 3 
Farley 1 0 01.000 14 0 Alao reclavlng votes: Michigan State • Ohio State, Knott 
Men's soccer at Bowling Green 
0 0 .000 18 24 Miami (Ohio). Badin 0 .000 6 12
Women's soccer at Chicago 
Walsh ~ 0 .000 0 8 
BP 0 0 .000 0 6
Volleyball Poll. National Soccer Poll 
~­
-----Siegfried 0 0 .000 0 14 
This week's AVCA Coachn' Poll of the top 20 The National College Soccer top 20. Notre Dame Division I collegiate volleyball teams. Notre Dame opponents are italicized 
Last Sunday's Results Lewis 24, Knott 18 (40T)
opponents are Italicized 1. Virginia 351 PW 12, Badin 0 (OT)
1. UCLA (44) 6-0 880 2. Indiana 332 Farley 14, Siegfried 02. Hawaii 6-1 835 3. Duke 315 Lyons 8, Walsh 0
3. Stanford 6-1 781 4. Harvard 277 4. Illinois 4-2 754 5. Portland 258 
PE6,BPO Today'a Gemn
5. Texas 7-1 668 6. SMU 240 Badin vs. Howard, 7 p.m.
6. Nebraska 8-2 633 7. Seton Hall 169 Farley vs. Lewis, 8 p.m.
7. BYU 10-2 627 B. Syracuse 164 Next Sunday's Games
8. T exas-Arllngton 6-1 523 9. Wake Forest 156 
Farley vs. Knott, 5 p.m.
9. Pacific 5-4 497 10. San Diego State 118 
Walsh vs. Howard, 6 p.m. PE vs. Lewis 7 p.m. 
10. Kentucky 6-1 490 11. George Mason 116 
11. Oregon 7-3 410 12. Evansville 112 
BP vs. PW, 8 p.m. Lyons vs. Siegfried, 9 p.m. 
12. usc 7-2 400 13. Air Force 100 
13. Cal-Poly SLO 10-0 364 14. South Carolina 36 
14. San Diego State 8-2 355 15. Rutgers 30 
15. Colorado State 6-3 259 16. Clemson 25 
Olympic TV 
16. San Jose State 8-0 239 17. Akron 18.5 
17. 
Washington 7-1 100 18. UNLV 18 September 21 

18. 
Arizona State 7-1 90 19. St. Francis 17 6-8 a.m. 

19. 
Minnesota 7-2 78 20. William & Mary 7 3-4pm 

20. 
Oklahoma 6-3 63 6:30 p.m. • 1 :30 a.m. Alao reclavlng votn: Arizona , Cal-Berkeley, Cal-Alao reclevlng votes: Vermont, Old Dominion, Gymnastics, women's all-arouund Santa Barbara, Cal-Long Beach, Penn State. Dartmouth, San Francisco, St. Louis University. Track 


Swimming, men's and women's heats Boxing prelims Basketball, men's prelims 
September 22 
6-8 a.m. 3-4 p.m.
PLAYER G~s SOG G 
6:30 p.m. • 1 :30 a.m. Zilvitls 5-5 19 6 Gymnastics, women's all-around 
Track Swimming, heats 
Sullivan s-s .itt.a s 0 
5-4 'i{{if 3
Birmingham 1 
Boxing, prelims 
Suba 5·5 13 3 0 Sisolak 5·5 16 1 1 National League/Holland 5·0 9 1 0 
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Ho 5·2 4 1 0 Haling 5·0 1 0 0 East 
w L Pet. GB McConville 5-5 5 0 0 New York 92 57 .617 Pittsburgh
McNeill 4-1 3 0 0 80 69 .537 12 
Montreal 74 76 .493 18.5
Lennon 5·5 2 0 0 
St. Louis 73 78 .483 20 Costantini 5·5 2 0 0 Chicago 71 79 .473 21.5 Miller 5-3 2 0 0 Philadelphia 60 90 .400 32.5 
Richards. 5·5 2 0 0 Skahan 5"0 2 0 0 West Woolchick 4-0 2 0 0 Los Angeles 88 61 .591 Menchaca 4-0 1 0 0 
Cincinnati 79 71 .527 9.5 San Francisco 79 72 .523 10
Illig 2·0 1 . 0 0 
Houston 78 73 .517 11Bundens 2·0 1 0 0 San Diego 73 76 .490 15 NOTRE DAME 5 100 18 3 Atlanta 52 97 .349 36 OPPONENTS 5 20 5 2 
Comer Kicks: Notre Dame 54, Opponents 4 
Tueaday's Results 
Penalties: Notre Dame 45, Opponents 31 Chicago 5, Montreal 4 (2nd game late) New York 6, Philadelphia 4 Los Angeles 6, Houston 0 
KEEPER Q.S MIN G GAA s 
Cincinnati 7, San Diego 2 Spencer 4-3 270 3 1.00 13 
San Francisco 7, Atlanta 4 McCrystal 3·2 180 2 t.oo · 7 Pittsburgh at St. Louis, late 
NOTRE DAME 5 4$0 5 1.00 20 Wedneaday's Games OPPONENTS 5 450 18 3.60 46 Montreal at Chicago :·~· San Francisco at Cincinnati 
Philadelphia at New York Atlanta at Houston 


SCORE BY PERIODS 1ST 2ND 10T 
Notre Dame 8 10 
Pittsburgh at St. Louis Opponents 3 2 San Diego at Los Angeles 
8 Lowest BaHing Averages Against Pitchers* . 

fthdanRyan:~ros ..187 average Mike Scott, Astros .-.215 average Jimmy Key, Blua Jays .218 average Bob Weth,·loduers · .218 average Charlie Hough, Rangers .218 average Jack Morris, nuers .m average 
*Versus all hitters, 1987; 
minimum 150 innings pitched 
Source: Baseball Digest Observer Graphic/Geoff Sauer and Marga Bruns 
Scoreboard ~ NFL Standings 
Results for Sept. 14 through Sept. 20 NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East  
Football (2·0) Notre Dame 20, Michigan State 3  w L T Pet. NY Giants 2 1 0 .667 Washington 2 1 0 .667  PF 56 67  PA 50 66  
Dallas 2 0 .333  48  50  
Philadelphia 2 0 .333  75  59  
Volleyball (4-4)  Phoenix 2 0 .333  58  62  
Colorado State del. Notre Dame  Central  
15-10, 16-18, 15-9, 15-12  
Houston del. Notre Dame 15-4, 15-17, 15-7, 15-12  Chicago 2 1 0 .667 Minnesota 2 1 0 .667 Detroit 1 2 0 .333  58 77 55  51 26 56  
Tampa Bay 2 0 .333  51  81  
Green Bay 0 3 0 .000  34  71  
Men's Soccer (6-0·1)  West  
Notre Dame 5, Michigan State 0 Notre Dame 5, Dayton 1  LA Rams 30 0 73 .648 New Orleans 2 1 0 .667  34 84  34 69  
San Francisco 2 1 0 .667  71  84  
Atlanta 1 2 0 .333  72  77  
Women's Soccer (3-2.0)  
Notre Dame 5, Western Michigan 0  AMERICAN CONFERENCE  
East  
w L T Pet.  PF  PA  
Buffalo 3 0 01.000  36  30  
Tennis  NY Jets 2 1 0 .667  71  34  
Women's Notre Dame B, Bowling Green 1  Miami 1 2 0 .333 New England 1 2 0 .333  37 48  69 55  
Indianapolis 0 3 0 .000  44  57  
Central  
Golf Women's Notre Dame 4th in the  Cincinnati 3 0 01.000 Houston 2 1 0 .667 Cleveland 2 1 0 .667 Pittsburgh 2 0 .333  66 58 32 65  50 94 43 68  
Lady Greyhound Invitational  West  
Notre Dame 9th in the  
Illinois State Invitational  Seattle 2 1 0 .687  58  41  
Denver 1 2 0 .333  61  44  
Kansas City 1 2 0 .333  33  50  
American League  LA Raiders 1 2 0 .333 San Diego 2 0 .333  76 33  73 64  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  Monday's Results  
w L Pet. GB  Cleveland 23, Indianapolis 17  
Boston 86 65 .570  
New York 80 70 .533 5.5  
Milwaukee 80 71 .530 6 Detroit 80 71 .530 6 Toronto 78 74 .513 8.5 Cleveland 72 79 .477 14 Baltimore 52 97 .349 33 West  Sunday's Results Buffalo 16, New England 14 Cincinnati 17, Pittsburgh 12 Kansas City 20, Denver 13 Miami 24, Green Bay 17 NY Jets 45, Houston 3 Minnesota 31, Chicago 7  
Oakland 95 55 .633 Minnesota 83 66 .557 11.5 Kansas City 79 70 .530 15.5 California 75 75 .500 20 Texas 65 84 .436 29.5 Chicago 64 85 .430 30.5 Seattle 61 88 .409 33.5  New Orleans 22, Detroit 14 Washington 17, Philadelphia 10 Phoenix 30, Tampa Bay 24 San Diego 17, Seattle 6 NY Giants 12, Dallas 10 LA Rams 22, LA Raiders 17 Atlanta 34, San Francisco 17  
Tueaday's Results  Sunday's Games  
Detroit 3, Cleveland 1  Atlanta at Dalles  
New York 7, Baltimore 1  Chicago at Green Bay  
Red Sox 13, Blue Jays 2  Cleveland at Cincinnati  
Chicago at Texas, late  Miami at Indianapolis  
Milwaukee at California, late  New England at Houston  
Kansas City at seattle, late  NY Jets at Detroit  
Minnesota at Oakland, late  Philadelphia at Minnesota  
Wedneaday's Games  Pittsburgh at Buffalo  
Chicago at T exes  Tampa Bay at New Orleans  
Minnesota at Oakland  San Diego at Kansas City  
Kansas City at Seattle  San Francisco at Seattle  
Baltimore at New York  Washington at Phoenix  
Cleveland at Detroit  LA Rams at NY Giants  
Boston at Toronto  Moncjay's Games  
Milwaukee at California  LA Raiders at Denver  


-
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTilUTION 
1l1c wcords we li\'e b,Y 
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH 
MURDER MYSTERY DINNER
HIRING 75 TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Solve The Mystery And Enjoy 
*Days 9am-5pm Offered August 20 -November 7 
Dinner In An Atmosphere

*Evening 5pm-10pm Year-round 
Conducive To An Intriguing
lOpm-lam Offered August 20-November 7 *Weekends Morning, Afternoon, Evening-Year-round 

Evening
$4.00-$12.00 I hour 
Jewell Community Promotions 
234-5554
121 S. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd Fl. 219-282-2754 
Wednesday, September 21, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
n.a..-NotAl Deme office, locat.ct on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­cs.nt c.nter, -=cepta clualfled ~Uig from 10 L"'-until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. 1'lw a..-Saint Milly's office, locat.ct on the thinS ftoor of ~Collge Cent•. -=cepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. unUI3 p.m., Monday through Frtday. DMdllne tor next-day clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda muat
Classifieds be prapakl, elth.-In pen1011 Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cants par live ~..day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
All ARE INVITED TO ST.EDWARD'S HALL TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. TO HEAR: GOVERNOR GILLIGAN SPEAKING ON "WHY I WILL VOTE FOR DUKAKIS"... PROFESSOR EDWARD MURPHY SPEAKING ON ''WHY I WILL VOTE FOR BUSH." 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST FRIDAY G-9 BETWEEN C·1 AND O'SHAG. A BLUE WALLET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL EILEEN AT 287-2882 BEFORE 10:00 P.M. PLEASE. I HAVE NO IDENTITY WITHOUT THIS. 
Helpll I losl a mother o'peart and brass bracelet somewhere near Caveneugh on 9·1 0. Has great sementat value-$$ reward IO< return! call Erin at 4915 if you can help mall 
LOST-LAST THURSDAY AT SMC: 4· LEAF CLOVER PENDANT. HIGH SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. PLEASE CALL JOYCE AT 5430. 
F~~~d dorm r.;;;;;; keys(404) in L~F~~­tune. Call 2n-1485 
.. .................................. . 
PLEASE, IF ANYONE FOUND A GOLD 
LADIES WATCH AT THE MICHIGAN 
GAME. SEC. 29·31 PLEASE CONTACT 
ME. AEWAADIIIIII KATE 2n-1574. 
ALSO LOST SMALL ALARM CLOCK 
SUNDAY ~~ SOMEWHERE IN 
LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL WITH 
ANY INFO--I NEED TO GET UP FOR 
CLASSES I 
. ... .................... .. . LOST: To peraon who picked up Clll­cutetor In Genellce Clau on Tundlly, Sept. 20, pte..• return to G~ 
Wlntero, 302 Zahm Holl. 
i:oii:r;--;--ri;;;;;~--;;;~~;;:··;;i'd ..~~k;;;d loco, Ramon nume.-.lo, doy ond dete, burgondy bond. Greet oentlmentol votue. If found PLEASE Clllt Mitt ot II 3810. Thanks! 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255· 38114'288·0955 
DO YOUR PARENTS NEED A PLACE TO STAY DURING FOOTBALL WEEKENDS? TRY THE "IRISH BED & BAEAKFAST"·-LOCATED 2 MILES FROM N.D. FOR INFORMATION RING 272-n38 
FURNISHED ROOMS & HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.272·6306 
1. ·ae·oA·OOM..APT_..WiTH'"K'iTCHEN:..a 
BLKS. FROM NO. AVAILABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEKENDS. INCLUDES 2 TIX TO GAME. $350 FOR WEEKEND. CALL 219·272·2720. 
WANTED 
GIRLS WANTED 9-19 from Grand Aaptda and surrounding areas 1o com­pete l0< the titiea of MISS PRE· TEEN GRANO RAPIDS, MISS JR. TEEN GRANO RAPIDS and MISS TEEN GRAND RAPIDS. Thouaanda of dollars In prizes including a trip 1o the Nationals In Orlando, Florida. FO< more info. call 1-800-:l-45-2330. 
RellaUront 
Opportunftleo The Ottw o..-o.n lillian -uront, with fll ttvely aptrtt and unique gordon 
Mlll"'l. 
le -hiring All POSITlONS: 
. Hoell&~ 
.lllrtondero 
. Wolbln & Welt,.-• 
. Coahlera 
. Dlehwi"'-M.Itlllty . Une coolco . Production & Prop Cooke . BuiMfll
.P_........_ 
PIMH opply 2~, dolly, et: 
The Olive Gorden 11410 Grope Rood 
Mlahewlkl 
An Equol Opportunity Employw 
THE OUVE GARDEN 
The Accent'o On Sueceu 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to provide FREE PREGNANCY TESTING AND COUNSELING 
CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES 23-4-3111 
WANTED --Part-lime waitresses to work evenings and weekends. Friendly at, no­sphere,descent pay. II interestt>d call 234·1 067.Ask lor Belly or Greg. 
Part time evening help needed. 19 hrsiWeek, $4.00tlr. Call 233·9045 5· 9pm. 
.................................•.............................. 
I'M GOING TO I.U., BLOOMINGTON AFTER THE PURDUE GAME ON SAT.· -ANYONE WANT TO AIDE ALONG WITH?? I'M COMING BACK SUN. NITE. CALL TONY 255·5152 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE AEN· TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 
T~h~i~-~~bi~ cass~H~-~k~$1'00 call Chris x3338 ································································ 
FOR SALE: CASIO CZ-101 program­mable, digrtal SYNTHESIZER -new con­dition, with carrying case and instruc· lions. CALL JOE II 1865 
···································"························· HOTEL FOR PURDUE WEEKEND MY PARENTS HAVE ADVANCE PAID FOR FAI AND SAT NIGHT AT THE "WORKS" DOWNTOWN. IF YOUR PAR· ENTS NEED A PLACE TO STAY CLOSE TO CAMPUS CALL JACK 1219 
Nlkkormal FT3 wt.!Bmm, SOmm, 80· 200mm lenses, 2 flashes, 2 cases. $550. 282·2577 alter 5pm 
2··si~~·3·t<~~a1~ u~i;~;;;;~--·;··s~i·i;~~d 
and fool pads. 2n-5234. 
GREAT PARTY CAAIIII 1970 Chevy lpela Convertible. Power everywhere: 454 engine. power windows and seats.$1,700. Call Terry, 287-8865. 
TICKETS 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X2743 
Neeo 2<3'A:~·ra·pe·NN"STATe·. ·sR-,AN 
272-0291 
Mom and Dads first vioit; help me make it a good one Need4 PURDUE tlx call 2226 John 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL ERIN AT 3757. 
-Footboll Ttcketa Four GA'a or •• mony •• po..tble lor Mloml, Penn St., and Air Force Coli 284-5280 or 287 • n52 onytlme Thank you ao much 
NE.eo··:;--·iAiiiMi ... ric.i<ET"s ... iiA:..ciii:i: 
SHARON 2945464 
Ne·ec:;··1··p·u~STUDE'NT.. TiCK·er··cALL 
JOHN 1427 
NEED 1 PURDUE G·;;:..PLEAse..ciii:i: II 3023 OR # 2999. 
HATE ..M.IAi.4iiii'HATE..MiAM·,·,·;,··HATE 
MIAMIIII I NEED 7 ( YES 7 ) MIAMI GA TIXIIIII CALL x1245 0< x1352 
iiEi:;;i..iiei:Pi..ii:~··;;;;··~;j:~·-8~~;.--;;;;;; he wants a black )agl I can't affO<d that, but I am looking IO< 2 Purdue GA's and one student tlcl<et. Don't let my dad be ~ 7~ this big dayllllllll Call Jenny 
iii.·&-sru·:n·~-~~·r;·;;~;;;~~·~;;;;;;;: 
MOney Ia no ob)ect.4521-Pa1 
$$$$··Neeo... P'ufio.ue···a:t:·s--·aADi:v $$$$ CALL x1649 
iiiiPiii'i'p:,jiiii'2'P'ufioue·CiA·~i-c;\i:i: 
GREG x1655 
.................................... 
NEED 1 STANFORD STUD. TICKET Col Yin 12052 
j'";;;;d"''i"'~i;;d;;~i--;;;:'"(i:l:'"ti;;i;;;;--;;;;..i;;;; PURDUE game. Please call Mike at 1882. Will pay big $$. 
ii'EFi.iiv..Fiii:isr·;;;;;;~;;;;·iii:i:··;;ou·ii-~i my undergrad yrs.Have a heart,sell grad stud. 2 Purdue stud tix 0< GAs.Jefl 2n­8573 
Pi:EAsei·i·N·Eeo·2·A·,fi·i'oR'cE··(i;._:g:-; STANFORD TIX x4364 ...........................NeEo........................... 
2 AIR FORCE GA'S .................. Needed badly: 1 Stanford Ticket Please! Thanks BunchesI Call Colleen at x4053 
I need Miami tix. will pay $$$$1 call Kate x4042 
let Mom & Dad seethe Irish I KELLY 288· 5737 
NEED 4 STAN FORD GA'S lor old alumni friend. Your support is greatly appreciat· ed, call Mike at x2344. Money is llttl&ho concern! 
Need 2 GAs lor NO-Miami game. Will pay big $$$. Call 294-5666. 
MY BROTHER WILL TRADE BEAUT!· FUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 PURDUE OR STANFORD GA x1999 NICK 
i-Fi.\oe·2-·sr.\NFoiio·:r,x··F'afi...i.1v MIAMI STUD TICKET OR CASH; 288­6603 
I need 2·5 Air Force GA's call Tom 
1632 
NEED 3 TIX TO STANFORD $$ 2697 
NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/All FOOT· BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272.0058. $$$$$ 
NEED TWO PURDUE GA'SIIIIIII WILL 
PAY$$$ CALL HEIDI AT 3860 
I NEED PURDUE TIX CALL MIKE 4113 
I WILL TRADE 4 PURDUE GA'S FOR THREE MIAMI GA'S. CALL ART AT (901) 525·1691 OR (901) 763·2586. 
HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 GA TIX FOR 
PURDUE FOR PARENTS PAY BIG 
BUCKS CALL JIM 289·5120 
Need 2 or 4 GAs-ANY HOME GAME 
x2707 Melissa 
Needed Desperately! Two Stonlord GAs Can pay big $$$ Call Jon at 1598 
HAVE 4 PURDUE GA'SII NEED 5iTAN· FORD GA'S --WANT TO 'f!:lADE ANOOR BUY PLEASE CALL MARK AT x1041 
WANTED: 2 PURDUE STUD OR OA MAUREEN X4112 
WILL TRADE PURDUE STUD TICKET & $$$ FOR MIAMI STUD TICKET CALL GREG# 1730 
HELP HELP HELP need live STAN· FORD GA'S Tony # 2020 
I NEED STANFORD GA's 
I NEED STANFOAD.GA's 
BIG $$$$$$$$'S CALL EO 1753 
..................................... 
I need two GA's IO< my parants lor any 
of the home games, especially: Purdue 
Rice Call Sly at # 3122 
Trade 1 AIAFOACE FOR 1 PURDUE Call Jake 4010 
..................................• 
Need 3 Purdue GA's real bad. Call Pat 
at2082 
I NEED 3 MIAMI TIX -PLEASEII CALL X2964 WILL PAY$$ 
I need 4 Tickets to Purdue, 2GA·2ST, 
CALL Scott # 1 053 
WANTED: 2 Purdue GA. Call Bill at 288· 3955 Wed 7 to 9 PM. ..................... EXCHANGE GA'S: 2 PURDUE, 2 AIR I'OACE, 2 RICE OR 2 PENN STATE FOR 2 STANFORD. CALL 2n-0526 AFTER 6 P.M. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME OAMES._p2-Q06 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. CALL NED 
AT 1178 
HELP II NEED PURDUE TICKETS STUD. and GA'S. CALL X2019 
I NEED ONE PURDUE TICKET CALL JOHN x1491 
Dad and his 3 wives need GA'siO< Miami­x1063 
Hold everything! I need 2 Purdue GA's -wiH pay $ 0< trade 2 Air Force GA's; call John x1804 
Will trade 4 PURDUE GA's for 4 PENN ST GA's Scott x1730 
MIAMI TICKET lor sale Call Sarah at 
4814 
HELPII I NEED MIAMI STUDs OR GAs, In a big wayll I ALSO NEED 2 STUDs FOR STANFORD AND 1 STUD FOR PENN STII $$$ CALL MIKE X2749 
................................................................ 
I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA'S. CALL SANOY AT 284-5221 
................................................................ 
STANOFOAO GA'SIII PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STANDFOAD GA'S, MY FAMILY REUNION WEEKEND IS COUNTING ON THEM. CALL MIMI AT SMC 52211111 
................................................................ 
NEED 3GAS FOR MIAMI AND AIR 
FORCE 284·5003 ANYTIME 
................................................................ 
NEED STANDFORD STUD OR GA TIXS. CALL MIMI X4447 
I'M DYING ... TO FIND 2 PURDUE GA'S PLEASE CALL 294·5458 
NEED TO TRADE. ... I need to trade 4-6 Stanford GA's IO< 4-6 Purdue GA'a. Please call (213) 301·3128 ()( (312) 475-1673. 
................................................................ 
WILL PAY BIG$$$$$ FOR 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL MONTE 283·15n 
.................................... 
NEED 2 PURDUE TIX, ST OR GA: WILL PAY OR TRADE FOR 1 MIAMI ST. • DIANA 4224. 
................................................................ 
Stu. tix lor sale. All remaining home games. Call 287986, 7-10 m. 
PURDUE GA 4 SALE 50 YO LN x3201 tv bt> or I cannot respond! 
Interested In 5 tickets to Penn St. game. Prefer all together but will consider seperate. Call Jim Stynes ii00-223·2440 ext. 7n2. 
N·o·a;~;;-~·~·;;d..2.iki~·i.4i~.;:;;Nii.Ci;;j:·15~ 
18005265361-Kate or alter 6 pm­2013825748 collect. ............................. WILL EXCHANGE MY 4 STANFORD GA'S OR PAY FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL CLAIRE 272·5989. 
WILL TRADE STANFORD, RICE OR PENN ST. FOR PURDUE, AIR FORCE OR MIAMI TIX. CALL CHRIS 684-1304, EVENINGS. 
DUDESII RICH RENTS FROM THE GOLDEN STATE NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE MIAMI GAMEIII CALL MIKE AT 287·8716 
I NEED MIAMI TICKETS PLEASE CALL BILL AT 4254 
need 3 Stanford GA's x2054 
HELPII Mom & Dad are coming! Need 2 AIR FORCE GA'SII call DIANNE x1992 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S $$Call Jay x1910 
Afraid you won't wake up Sat. for the 
12:20 game? Then let me BUY your PURDUE TICKET! (student or GA). Call Susan at 2722. Thanks! 
........... . .............. . Selling Purdue ticket: cell 234--9138, after 8:00P.M. 
I NEED: 4 Slnlrd GA's 1 Stnlrd or Air Free stud Call Dave # 1427 
'SAMMY NEEDS TICKETS ' TWO STANFORD GA & 1 STUDENT (OR 3 GA) PLEASE CALL 288~207 
MARCEL AND RUTHIE ARE COMING TO NO 1111 They need Stanford GA's from YOU Ill PLEASE Ill Call x4228 
Have TWO Purdue G.A.'s. Would like to trade lor TWO P.U. GA's In better lo­cation In stadium. Please help me out-­perhaps willing to trade e $$$$$$. Call Beth 1264 
AlA FOACEII3 stu tix IO< sale. call49151 
Need 1 student ticket to Perdue andt!r Stand lord game, Call John 288-2062 
I NEED 3 PURDUE GA's, JEFF x3276 
MI-AM·I still in need of 2 GA's call Jim a11647 
Have stud tix: 2PU 1 AF 1 PS Crit 1688 
WANT TO SELL ALL MY TICKETS • STUD AND GA·FACE VALUE JUST WANT TO BREAK EVEN CALL ME ANYTIME BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 4 A.M. AND 9 A.M. ASK FOR JOE S. 
PLEASEIIII NEED 2 PENN ST STU· DENT TIX. WILL PAY$$ OR TRADE 2 STANFORD OR PURDUE GA'S FOR THEM! CALL AMY PLEASE! X4953 or 4962. 
I NEED 2 or 4 GA's f0< PURDUEIll have 2 STANFORD GA's to trade. call Karen # 1314 
PERSONALS 
AVOID THE RUSHIIII 
Hill Rice Elrlylll 
T ·Shlria Printed 1o your specifications Call 2389, Chris 
NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX ell John et 112045 
GROUPS ... GROUPS ... GROUPS You don't h1V8 to tlgu,. It out olonel Groupo for peroonol growth, _.. II_., weight m1111ogement, .up­port lor black -n ond lldult chllclnon of olcohollca ..-. beglnnl"'l NOW. Call 239-7338 for dltoUo. 
I NEED GA OR STUD TICKETS FOR STANDFOAO. PLEASE CALL KATH· LEEN 5178 SMC I NEED AS MANY AS POSSIBLE I 
.~ ............................................................. 
I NEED 5 GA PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN 5178 SMCI 
INDUSTRY DAY Wednesday September 21 Industry Day Fair 11:00 AM -4:00 PM Fitzpatrick Concourse Bring resumes Perrnanemsummer Employment Opper· 
tunlties Industry Day Banquet 5:00 PM Mixer ACC Monogram Room 
PURDUE! 
PURDUE I 
PURDUE I 
I need one GA fO< Purdue. Mom loves 
NO and wants to see at least one game 
here this year, lind Purdue Is the one. 
Please call 283-2892 ASAP. Than xi 
DRUMMERS! BAND SEEKING DRUM­MEAl INTERESTED? CALL # 3123 
The Student Union Board is pleaeed to announce the produclton of a new mu· sical, "SIMON," on the Notre Dame campus this Feb. 22-25. Anyone inter· ested in the positions of choreographer, stage manager, or musical directO< should contact Rob Meffe by Sunday at 
# 3860. 
HARRY from CARROLL 
Remember me? Well I promised you I'd invrte you to our first party, didn't I? It's Friday, so give me a call. I've tried to call you a lew times but you're not home. Don't worry, I won't need any help walking home since I'll be AT hamel 
C from lYONS (now CV) 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, LA COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213·741· 1338. 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB OctoberS us October Bus Sign Up Sign Up Monday Sept 26 
7:00 Sarin Room LaFortune 
Don't forget to wish Colleen Timons a . . . HAPPY BIATHDAYIII 
HEY ALL YOU STUDS TODAY IS COL­LEEN TIMONS' B-OAY CALL X2278 AND WISH HER A HAPPY B·DAY 
JAMES BRAKE A MIKE TRIPPA Pleaae -Shirley In The ObMrver ASAP. 
MARK TAYLOR YOU BAND GOD YOU HAVE CAUGHT MY CUAIOUSITYIIIII ARE YOU TAKEN? PLEASE RESPOND HERE. DARLA 
The road to the etadlum contlnun... Good Job Farleyltllllllll 
BOB & JIM THE DRINKING GAME WE COULD NOT WIN WE WERE A LITTLE INTOXICATED SO NOW WE SAY HAPPY BELATEDIII LOVE VAl HOLLY AND JEN D 
............................................ 
To the 4 guys who play v-ball at Saint Mary's. We love you li-The women of Me Candless P.S. WHO ARE YOU?? I 
To girl who sat behind me using the UN· LOC computer on the 11th floor of 'Brare Sun. nrte I'd like to meet ya call TOM(1796). 
I LOVE YOU BABY DOLL II 
HAPPY 21ST TO THE HURRICANE MAAAYAI WE LOVE USII 
PUR 0 U-E PURDUE purdue Need just 2 GA'slll Please help! Call 
Greg x3367 
............................................. 
PW'a 3b hlo got 111111111 
................................................................ 
Hre lOt' free, Tim. II'S not my miS· sion bJI.. It's a solution. 
M.G. IF I DIDN'T BLOW IT LAST WKND, HOW ABOUT PIGGING OUT AT P.H. THIS WKND? M.P. 
................................................................ 
WOADPAOCESSING-TYPING 272· 8827 
................................................................ 
SMILE ... DAN WILL BE KING 
................................................................ 
HEY CHRIS GALLAGHER-IT'S OUR HOUSE AND DON'T YOU EVER COME BACKI STAY OFF THE LAWN TOOl · THE SOCCER WOMEN 
RIGHT TO UFE RIGKT TO LIFE "IS ABORTION THE ONLY UFE ISSUE?: THINKING & VOTING PR~FE" 7:00pm .......,._, n-tra LeFor· 
tune Thura, Sept 22 VO(er reg/afnltJon 10 follow 
Hlyllll H 1111yane bouaht • lluclont tlckM for 
lllchlgon Purdue, or lillY other home gome lhlt
.... 
Soc 21, ftow 80, s.t 12 on It, plea• ct~l 213-3348. lt'o very lmportontl Thllnkl . 
MIKEL-ANN WOWIII WHAT A NITEI THANKS SO MUCH. LOVE FROM A GUY AT R.ANNER. 
Rua Jonldow-Where .,.you??? -The Wornon You ~ldn't Flgu,. Out 
ALL ARE INVITED TO ST. EDWARD'S HALL TONIOHT AT 7:00 P.M. TO HEAR: ' 
GOVERNOR OILLIOAN SPEAKING ON "WHY I WILL VOTE FOR DUKAKIS"... PROFESSOR EDWARD MURPHY SPEAKING N "WHY I WILL VOTE FOR BUSH." 
Ki"M·"M:·n:ie·:rAi:t:·voL:u·p;:iJousoNe: YES YOU!-THE ONE WITH THE AUBURN HAIR. YOU RADIATE 
vou.Nii...iiiii·i::···MioNiiiiiT·--;z·;----;;: 
STONEHENGE. PLEASE WEAR WHITE. -KNIGHT II 
·HEY· I KNOW YOU WANT IT One Miami student ticket lor sale. Call 284·4322 before 11 p.m. 
MARY DEVLIN (I.e. Mrs. Paul Bier­busse), 
Heart-fell congrats on your engagement­AGAIN! It's still hard to believe. 
Lots of Love, Your OI'Aoomie. 
THE SALAD BAA SYA IS COMING 
THE ONLY SYA WITH BAAS IS COM· lNG THE SALAD BAA SYA 
LADIES, BRACE YOURSELVES THE SALAD BAA SYR IS COMING 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE GRAND HAVEN COTTAGE 1.Quazimoto YAH HOOOI 2.0on't WO<rry, be happy 3.01d Michigan really beat Rutgers? 5.Shawn, just drink beer-~ won't give you a Sparkover 6.Where's Keri and Mark? 7.What is this phallic thing we're dancing around? 8.0on't rock the boat! 4.0onut holes anyone? 9.1 think his name is Prince 10.1 didn't know your cottage was in a trailer park 
Hell St. JoHph In the lhlldow of the Grotto. May many seek your help. Man· //est of Men, Patron ol Workers, Silent Hero. For the favor of a l~etlme ... 
........................................... SERENADES by Ed Wolf Pertect IO< any occasion Call ·3239 
I need 4 P.U.G:A's chris 1603 
Hey -lcklll Hondymon-"Yep, thll thing II oturdy all right." Horoe Oo!tc· ·"'Pont, pont, n--uyll•m oxtrodl­nory." Foay-"Woclul woclul...my roommot11 oro Different." Love 1 ,2,3 ... lhl Account.llllt 
NOTRE DAME'S ONLY REAL AOCK-N­AOLU!LUES BAND: LIVE AT MCCOA· MICK'S CONEY ISLAND; FRIDAY, SEPT 23 (NEXT TO SENOR KELLY'S DOWNTOWN) 
PARTY WITH "BILLY THE 10" FRIDAY NITE AT MCCORMICK'S BAA 
SOPHOMORE FORMAL is October 7. Get a date beiO<e ll'a too late I 
TONY RICE, THE TRUE STUDENT BODY IS 100 PERCENT BEHIND YOU. WE HAVE FAITH IN YOUR ARM. THE RUSH IS ON, HATE MIAMI IIIII 
To oil of my •-aomelrlenda ond Cot· hotlce In Blld Stondlng: Thenks IO< making my 21st birthday a wonderful surprise. U.P. Park Apia. never saw a mO<e rockin party! You're great. Love, 
Kar 
B.P. BLITZ HAS STYLE AND PRIDE QUA NAME IS HONORED WORLD WIDE WE'RE ROUGH AND TOUGH WE'Ll NEVER GIVE UP 
SO B.P.'S ENEMIES HAD BETTER HIDEIIIIIIIII 
ANGELA ... Light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my aoul ... ANGELAIII 
BAOGANHEAD .. Are you hungry????? --M.M . 
PEGHEAO... H'a o.k. to like him as long as he doean~ part his hair In the middle. --M.B. 
Since I hove so many ads already, I may as wei requMI a ,_ room mate. Jody­wody Ia a WEENIEIII Luv, another weeniel 
ART LOVERS--NEED MONEY?? I need a ticket fO< the Chicago' Art Institute trip . Pl.eaM Helpll Will pay $$$ lor bolh bul and exhibition ticket. Call KIM at # 3874 
VIlLETTE GEORGE HAPPY 21111 you•,. n~nnln' with the big doge tonight .., get relldyl 
Lyane Footbell 
Waloh was only the 111'81 step to the stadium. Farley beware. BP -You can run (maybe), but you can~ hide. We'll ­you In the playa"• -~ you make H. With such rnotlvatlonli ~by our coach 
Steve, how can -loae? WE CAN'T 
CHRIS IIORONI Ha, you thought thet on your BIRTHDAY that you'd get awey without • peraonlll? No chancel Happy 20th from your favorite 
Grace RAI 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY PAT HALLI HE'S NO LONGER JAIL BAIT, PLEASE HELP HIM ACHIEVE HIS NON­AMATUER STATUS. LOVE, YOUfl BUDDIES. 
KIRSTEN: IT WAS A COLO DARK NIGHT ON THE TV THERE WAS A FIGHT IN THEIR GLASSES THERE WAS BEER IN THE AIR, A SMELL WE FEARED THE RATIO WAS IN THEIR FAVOR BUT WAS IT A NITE WE WOULD SAVOR STATS MARKS JON 
Aide n-1o South Florida IO< October Break. FT. Lauderdale 0< as close aa possible. Will share expenses. Call Paul V. at x3810 

Wednesday; September 21, 1988
page 12 The Observer 

U.S. basketball dumps Brazil 
K.T. 
continued from page 16 
throughout high school. She did not focus all of her energy on athletics, however, as her grades were good enough to earn her a full four-year aca­demic scholarship to Canisius. And now, as a junior living in Lewis Hall, Sullivan is over­flowing with enthusiasm for her new team and her new school. 
"From day one we've gotten along great," she says of the team. "We weren't exactly sure how we all fit together, but it's really starting to work out. We're looking to gel on the field as well as we do off the field." 
Just as Sullivan is happy to be here, Irish head coach Den­nis Grace is happy to have her. 
"K.T. is just fantastic, a good person and a great lady," he says. "She handles herself very well. With our young team she's taken on a very positive leadership role, and she's done up and beyond what we thought she might be able to do." 
STUDENTS 
Make studying easier with your own Computer! Build it yourself or we'll do the work for you! Buy a NEW unit or UPGRADE your present one. We have everything you need! 
Call P&P COMPUTERS 219-232-8987 
CALL COLLECT! 
------------------~ 
OCTOBER 6 
Interested i!J participating? 
Call 239-6940 
Ask for Maura
or 28 7 3 
Sullivan herself recognizes the' importance of her valuable experience of playing at a high level for so many years. 
"I am the only one on the team who has played varsity college ball," she says. "I can help them know what to ex­pect." 
As one of the team's central midfielders, Sullivan's respon­sibilities will include motiva­tion as well as field leadership. That shouldn't present a prob­lem for her. 
"I have a lot of fun out there on the field, you have to work really hard and ask 110 percent of yourself, but you can't ask more than 100 percent of anybody else," she says. "I'm glad that a lot of people get a chance to play, and I'm just happy to be out there." 
Grace agrees. 
"K.T. is very intelligent as a player, and has a unique abil­ity to bring people up to higher levels," he says. "Her biggest weakness is that she's only played at Notre Dame for one month, and not for the other two years of her college career." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Michael Jordan signed a new contract with the Chicago 
Bulls on Tuesday that is worth about $25 million over the 
nest eight years. -Associated Press 
Mike Stonebreaker, an inside linebacker for Notre Dame, has been named the Associated Press Midwest De­fensive Player of the Week for his performance last Satur­day against Michigan State. -The Observer 
The varsity crew team will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30 in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Bring checkbooks. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will conduct practice at 4 p.m. on Friday at the Joyce ACC in preparation for Saturday's match against Purdue. Plasyers will meet at 9:30a.m. on Saturday before the Purdue match. -The Observer 
In the NVA Golf Scramble, a tournament held last Saturday, there were ties for both first and third place. The teams of Parch and Mieczkowski tied the team of Olmstead and Ahern for first with scores of 68. Lawlis and Olinger tied Crobie and Sheedy for third with scores of 69. -The Observer 
The Domer Runs will be held on Sunday at 1 p.m. The three-mile and six-mile runs, sponsored by Non-Varsity Ath­letics, will include both individual and dorm competitions. If one signs up with his or her dorm, that person will auto­matically be signed up individually. Participation costs $4 in advance at the NVA office or $5 on the day of the race. 
-The Observer 
The SMC Co-Ed Flag Football tournament needs referees. There is a mandatory meeting on Thursday at 4 
p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility for prospective referees. For more information, call 284-5290. -The Observer 
The NO Aikido Club is holding practices Mondays and Wednesdays from 6 to 7:45p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. 
Associated Press 
SEOUL--The U.S. basketball 
team and boxer Michael Car­. bajal both got even Wednes­day, and swimmer Matt Biondi became the United States' first triple medalist at the Seoul Olympics, falling one stroke 
short of two gold medals. 
The basketball team scored 
a 102-87 victory ov-er Brazil, 
which had stunned the United 
States in the title game of the 
Pan Am Games last year. The 
victory clinched America's 
berth in the medal round. 
Carbajal, meanwhile, moved 
the U.S. boxing team another 
step farther from oblivion with 
a mean-fought victory over a 
South Korean who beat him last 
year in a dual meet in Seoul. 
Biondi, of Moraga, Calif., 
swam the fastest 200-meter 
free leg of the 800 relay in his­
tory in leading the Americans 
past the East Germans. Biondi 
missed another gold when he 
finished just .01 seconds behind 
surprise winner Anthony 
Nesty, the only swimmer here 
from Surinam. Beaten when he 
glided into the wall ·after his 
last stroke, Biondi thus added 
a silver in the men's 100-meter 
butterfly to the bronze he won 
in the 200 freestyle, and his 
quest for seven medals at these 
Games continued. 
The Soviets now have 11 
medals, six gold. China has 
seven medals, one gold, and 
Bulgaria and the United States 
have six each. Bulgaria has 
three gold, the United States 
two. East Germany has five 
medals, including three gold. 
While the Soviets were run­
ning away with the medals 
race, the wounded hero Greg 
Louganis and worried warrior 
Kenneth Gould got the 
Americans going on Tuesday. 
At the same time, Said 
Aouita of Morocco sent ripples 
of disbelief through the world 
of track and field. Now, it ap­
pears he may try for an Olym­
pic triple in the 800, 1,500 and 
5,000--even though the two 
longer races will be run 20 
minutes apart on the next-to­
last day of the Games. Aouita 
is the world record-holder at 
1,500 and 5,000 meters. 
The U.S. basketball team 
used a defensive pressure that 
has become the trademark of 
Coach John Thompson of Geor­
getown to wear down Brazil. 
Brazil led 38-37 with 7:34 to play 
in the first half, but that's when 
the United States defense went 
to work. J.R. Reid led the 
Americans with 16 points, 14 in 
the first half, and Danny Man­
ning and Dan Majerle had 12 
each. 
Brazil's Oscar Schmidt had 
31 points, but that was nine off 
his Olympic average, and 
Thompson said his players 
were sick of hearing about the 
Brazilian star. 
"This team was Oscared to 
death," the coach said. 
On Tuesday, the U.S. team 
went to a weapon not known to 
be heavily stocked in its arse­
nal, the 3-point goal, to beat 
Canada 76-70 for its second 
straight victory. Hersey Haw­
kins led the way with 13 points. 
It was a big victory for ·America's littlest boxer when 
Carbajal, of Phoenix, Ariz., 
defeated Oh Kwang-soo of 
Unlyenlty of Notre pamc 
Foreign Study 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY BELINDA 
LOVE THE GIRLS AT JILL'S MASSAGE PARLOR 
Program 
6:30P.M. 106 O'Shaughnessy 
All are welcome 
'Application Deadline for ;·. ~pring .Scmestcr~lil89, 
·o~t~ber:. 15-.~ 1988 
~~..................... 










LIP SYNC CONTEST 
South Korea 3-2 in a 106-pound matchup, giving the U.S. team two straight victories. 
Oh, considered a prime gold medal candidate, scored with the harder punches, but Car­bajal jabbed and countered well, often scoring with big flurries in a "fight marked by a lot of holding and wrestling. 
"He's the hometown hero," the 21-year-old Carbajal said. "I had to fight hard because of the crowd." 
Kenn$!th Gould advanced on Tuesday in the 147-pound divi­sion after two stunning U.S. losses a first-round knockout of Kelcie Banks and the loss by walkover of Anthony Hembrick. 
Gould was camped on the floor of the gymnasium long before his 147-pound bout started. He might not win, but he was going to . be there-­especially after what happened to Hembrick the day before. 


Wednesday, September 21, 1988 The Observer 

TEAR OUT THESE COUPONS. TEAR DOWN TO COCONUTS! THE ONLY MUSIC AND VIDEO STORE YOU'LL EVER NEED! 
........................ 
SUPER COUPON #l . SUPER.COUPON #2 
I ANY CASSmJ OR LP. I I ANY COMPAO DISC I 
!s6.99HSJ1.99! 
1 Present this coupon and receive any cass~tte 1 I Present this couv,on and receive ~ny single I or LP,(regularly priced up to $9.99) for $6.99. album compact d1sc ~re~ularly pnced up toI Limit 2. This coupon not valid with other I I $16.~9) f?r $11.99. Limit 2. "!ills coupon not I 
offers. Expires 9/25/88. NDAME vahd w1th other offers. Exp1res 9/25~~AME
...........~~.~ ...........;.~ 
AlSO SAVE ON THESE GREAT HIJS! 
CASSETIE OR LP 
LITTLE· FEAT Let It Roil
S6.99 
COMPACT DISC 

SJJ.99 
NO COUPON NECESSARY FOR PICTIJRED TITIES. 



5784 Grape Rd • Indian Ridge Plaza 
Mon.-Sat. 10am-10pm Sun. 11am-7pm 
(219) 271-0966 


Sale Prices Good Thru 9/25188. 

By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
"I was never mean enough," senior Mary Kay Waller laughed. "If you put me out there on the court now they would just put me away." 
It is hard to believe this is the same 6-0 middle blocker from Lawrence, Kan., who is leading the Notre Dame wo­men's volleyball team in kills, hitting percentage and total blocks. 
But fortunately for the Irish, if not so for their opponents, Waller is merely reminiscing about her high school.years when basketball--not volleyball--was her top priority. 
"I played volleyball as a side sport," says Waller. "It wasn't until my senior year that I realized my potential lay in vol­leyball. It takes a more aggres­sive person to play basketball and I'd prefer to hit the ball, not people. It fits my personal­ity more." 
Waller is now fully devoted to volleyball and sports statis­tics that could earn her All­American honors this season. 
She has dominated net play for the Irish in their first eight matches, recording 109 kills and 51 blocks thus far in the season, taking up where she left off last year ranked seventh in nation in blocking average. 
"She's doing extremely well this season," says Irish head coach Art Lambert. "Her play is tremendous right now and we'd like to see her take her game a level above that. We feel as coaches thatshe's got a great deal of potential--more than even she realizes--and we hope to tap it." 
Since joininp-tt..~ Notre Dame squad, Walle s helped the Irish impro~ om a 12-21 finish her fre~ .tan year to two consecutive 3L win seasons and a chance to break into the na­tional rankings for the first time ever this year. 
"We learned from those losses and put together a decent record the last two years," Waller says. "Now we're trying to get into the (NCAA) tourney so we'll have to be a little more obsessed if we want to make it." 
So far, Waller has taken her own advice and played with a zeal that has earned her all­tournament honors in the Saluki Invitational and the Holiday Inn 1 University Park Classic this season. 
Part of her success could be attributed to the team's trip to China this summer during which the Irish played a Chinese national team consid­ered by many to be one of the best in the world. 
But Waller also gained expe­rience on her own, playing for the U.S. Olympic B-team in San Diego, Calif. Chosen as one of only 15 players selected from the collegiate level, Waller spent 2 12 weeks training and played a three-match serieE against the West German na­tional team. 
"It was an unbelievable feeling putting on that United States uniform," says Waller. "People wanted our autographs--they respected us. I didn't feel like I deserved it. 
"It was worth all the hard work just to play for my whole country. 
"China was the same way," she continues. "The interna­tional experience was exciting, but more than that, it helped improve our skills and boost our confidence." 
Amid these personal achievements, though, Waller still believes team goals are the key to success. 
"The team is most impor­tant," Waller stressed. "It doesn't matter if I play well if the team as a whole doesn't. If I don't make All-American and this team goes far, I'd be way more excited. I don't even con­sider myself a prospect, I just want the team to win." 
Purdue 
continued from page 16 
can perform well consistently, 
but seniors Mary Kay Waller 
and Zanette Bennett will un­
doubtedly be major con­
tributors. 
Waller, a middle blocker who 
was the lone Irish representa­
tive on the Holiday In­
nUniversity Park Classic all­
tourney team last weekend, 
leads the team in total blocks, 
kills and hitting percentage. 
Bennett's statistics fall in right behind Waller's and her play will also be a factor in 
Notre Dame's control of the 
net. 
Senior Whitney Shewman has been struggling with knee problems, but she should be a defensive factor against Purdue with her team-leading 
3.57 dig average. 
The Irish will also need fresh­man setter Julie Bremner to continue her consistent play and add to the team-high 337 assists she has accrued thus far in the season. They will also need freshman Jennifer Slosar, who played in all four games against Houston last weekend, to continue to improve as a middle blocker. 
"Right now we want to cut down on our errors,'' said Lam­bert. "Teams aren't beating us, we're beating ourselves. 
-------------~--~-----------------------------. 
Wednesday, September 21, 1988

page 14 The Observer 
'He's the kind of guy you'd go to war with' 
5th-year senior Starns has team's respect 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
There is but one word to describe Notre Dame defen­sive end Frank Starns. 
Respect. 

The fifth-year senior from Akron, Ohio, is known on the team for intelligence, ability, and above all spirit. His team­mates and coaches respect him just as much as he respects the game of football. 
"His agressiveness is one of his greatest strengths" said de­fensive end coach George Stewart. "I'll tell you what kind of person Frank Starns is. If you're picking guys to go to war with, you'd pick him first." 
The Fightin' Irish football team will go to war at least nine more times this year, and the Irish defense will look to Starns as a leader throughout the season. Starns will do all he can to see the Irish win. 
"The team has tremendous chemistry this year," says Starns. "Basically, we're just a bunch of guys who love to play football. We've been tested by the run and done well. If we can put a good rush on the passing teams, we'll have a great year." 
Starns originally came to Notre Dame as a fullback, averaging 3.7 yards a carry and scoring three touchdowns his sophomore year. In the 

Frank Stems 

Although he is starting, he is still learning. According to Stewart, Starns is a true stu­dent of football. 
"In football you either hit your opponent or he hits you." said Starns. "It sound simple but requires alot of effort. You've got to dissect your opponent--know him better than he knows you. Then you can anticipate and get that ex­tra step that makes a great play." 
Starns has played extremely well in both games this season, registering two important sacks against Michigan and recording four tackles, three unassisted against Michigan State. As a defensive end Starns is very good and still im­proving. 
"Frank is relatively new to 



Wednesday, September 21, 1988 
The Observer page ·15 
f:AMPUS 
11 a.m. -4 p.m. The Industry Day Fair will be nt:i..: :n the Fitzpatrick (1st floor) Concourse. Sponsored by the Joint Engineering council and Society of Women En­gineers. 
6 p.m. General Mills is hosting a PresentationReception for all Accountancy and Finance seniors interested in discovering career opportunities, in the Upper Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. · 
6:30 p.m. Saint M~ris C()llege Couns.eling and Career Development PresehtatiQn, "Employment Opportuni­ties With First Chicago," by Mr. Robert Chrismer, Asst. Vice President for Chicago, Haggar Parlor, Haggar College Center. 
6:30p.m. Saint Mary's College Department of Religious Studies Film "Yasujiro Ozu, Tokyo story," Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. 
7 p.m.-9:15p.m. Graduate Student Union Film Series "Roots." This series will ~-shown for 5 Wednesdays in Septemb~r and October. Each showing will be fol­lowed by a discussion. Library Auditorium. 
10 p.m. -11 p.m. Campus Perspectives is holding a PAX Christi discussion on WVFI-AM 640. 
1DINNER MENUS. 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
3 Cheese Croissant Roast Beef w/Au Jus 
Pasta Bar Egg Rolls w;Sweet-Sour 
Fried Catfish Sauce 
Teriyaki Cube Steak Stuffed Potato Copenhagen 
Deli Bar 

COMICS 
Bloom County · 


NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Branda film: 50 Where 1960 Iphigenia was 
I Heavenly saved32 Case in Lat.

balance 

6 Belgian town 9 "Oh, gi~e me 35 Like Simon's 
55 Alan Bates couple film: 1967 14 Register 58 Rhino's kin 
36 Japanese food 
15 Steno's item items 61 Scram! 16 Verboten 62 Steeplejack's
37 Southern
17 "There Is bolt
soundNothin' Like 63 U. of Maine 39 Fashion's
" 

siteGeoffrey18 Always 64 Siam follower 
19 Junkets 40 "i-gracias!" 
65 Musical
20 Dean Martin 42 Penn., e.g. 
directionfilm: 1968 
44 Fast flier 66 -ofTerror23 W. German 
river 45 Kirk Douglas 67 Grange or film: 1951 Auerbach
24 Persona non 49 Costner film 
68 Word with 25 Havana house role 
common or horse 
DOWN ..
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I Turns pages 2 Ashley Wilkes's sister 3 Spain's Costa 
II Kind of sash 32 Madison Ave. 48 May or Stritch 4 Actor Cesar 12 Swab type 52 Former 13 Dawn goddess 33 Scottish hero Carolina 5 Pianist 21 Mellowed 34 Ties senator Templeton 22 Bits 53 Checks
38 Sweeper's
6 Boxed 26 Flu symptoms activity 54 A Lauder 7 Worker's 27 Decorticates 56 Press
41 Smith of 
reward time 28 Plus 57 Roman and 
tennis
8 "-Fideles" 30 The man Christian
42 Moved
9 Aleutian· without a 58 Rocky peak 
43 Twaddle
island country 59 Swedish ski 10 Tough 31 Gen. Early of 46 Embracer resort customer the C.S.A. 4 7 Plaza denizen 60 Taro-root food 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Andy Kinney 

Runny Noses 
G
'5cet:.w-yovrz_-t<.MMMAr~'· 
-$/N('t 'fDII {'A.;'1 "Pt/.;~ lfr· 
1J'Il'!< 4/'J'fMOl£, -rHt Olo/t..Y -rHttiGS ~ t-f I -ro VD A~£. &tT-1"/N 6-~Ary AAlt {A"(},.; 6­HAr!_TI('Hf.tS( (!vfJ£<;. 

Sports
page 16 
ND volleyball finishes 7-game trip at Purdue 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team will play the last game of a seven-game road trip as it takes on Purdue in West Lafayette, before return­ing to the friendly confines of the JACC for a string of four matches at home. 
The Irish dropped two games in last weekend's Holiday Inn/ University Park Classic, losing to Colorado State and Houston. 

-
Now they face the Boilermakers--a team they have yet to beat in their eight­match history--in their home territory. 
"We need this win," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "Purdue always has a good team and an excellent pro­gram, and playing in Lafayette is never very easy." 

A key to making this road trip easier on the Irish will be containing Purdue's powerful middle blocker Debbie McDonanld. 
McDonald, a junior who earned second-team All­American honors last year, and her fellow Boilermakers should be a force in the Big Ten again this year. They beat the Irish in four games last season 15-10, 14-16, 15-2, 15-4. 
Notre Dame, ranked 25th in the nation according to the Sept. 13 AVCA Coaches Poll, will face a Purdue team that also has come close to breaking into the top 20 poll. 
The Irish have been ex­perimenting with new lineups, trying to find a rotation that 
see PURDUE, page 13 


Rookie on ND campus, veteran on soccer field 
Sullivan leads ND soccer team 
By COLLEEN 
HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
K.T. Sullivan is just happy to be here. 
The 20-year old Long Island native transferred to Notre Dame this year after two years at Canisius College in Buffalo, New York. The reason? The Notre Dame women's soccer program finally gained varsity status. 
"I had originally wanted to come here as a freshman," says Sullivan. "I was admitted, but I really wanted to play var­sity soccer." 
Thus she deferred her dream and opted for the upstate New York school where she could continue her athletic pursuits. Majoring in finance and think­ing about law school, Sullivan never completely put Notre Dame out of her mind. So when she heard that Notre Dame's club team would be promoted to the varsity level this season, 
Wednesday, September 21, 1988 

Women's golf finishes 9th 
By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team tied for ninth out of 13 teams at the Illinois State Invitational tournament this past weekend with a total score of 684. 
The two-day tournament was won by Northern Illinois with a score of 617. 
Contributing to Notre Dame's score were freshman Christine Lazar (score of 163), sophomore Roberta Bryer (170), sophomore Heidi Hanson (176), senior Carolyn Burke (177), and soph­omore Pandora Fecko (178). 
Bryer currently holds the lowest team average with an 83.25. 
Notre Dame had a rough first round in Normal, Ill., falling to 12th out of 13 teams, 15 strokes behind eighth place. The Irish fared better the next day, however, making up the 15 strokes and moving into a tie for ninth place overall with Northern Missouri State. 
Irish in action tonight at Krause 
The Irish will take on the Wheaton women's soccer team tonight at 7:30 at Moose Krause Stadium. Grace is looking forward to a good match, saying he'd be "surprised is Wheaton comes in here at anything less than dynamite." 
Coming off a 5-0 shutout of Western Michigan, the team is looking better and better. Overall, Grace is pleased with the women's 3-2 record. He emphasized that there is still much to be learned and experienced. 
"The way I see it right now," he says, "the team is like a young colt. It runs like crazy and the effort is there. It has a lot of potential, but it makes a lot of mistakes. But so far they have done extremely well to insure that the future of Notre Dame women's soccer will be a success, and I wouldn't trade them for the world." 

she decided to transfer. 
"Canisius was great," she is quick to point out, "but this is really where I wanted to go in the first place. Every once in awhile I do get 'old-school sick', but this is totally the right deci­sion for me. I can't imagine myself anywhere else than at Notre Dame." 
Coming from Long Island, the hot-bed of Eastern soccer, Sullivan first played on an or­ganized level over 13 years ago. She was seven when she joined the community Youth league that her father was coaching. Within two years she had joined the travelling team and was well on her way to a successfull career. After two years of playing center halfback for a private high school, she switched to a public school with a better team, where she played left halfback. 
In addition to soccer, Sul-Jivan played basketball 
see K.T., page 12 
Irish need at least the threat of a passing attack 
It seemed like an innocent enough question. 
"Coach, can you continue to win without throwing the ball?" 
Notre Dame had just trounced Michigan State without throwing a complete pass over the line of scrimmage and had run the option flawlessly for 295 yards. 
"We can't win unless we throw the football," says Holtz, even though his 2-0 Irish had done just that moments earlier in front of 77,000 in the stands and a nationally televised audience. "I know that, and you know that, but our players don't know that." 
He's right on at least one count. Fifteen minutes later Tony Rice is surrounded by members of the media who scribble down every word the option­wizard has to say. Then, The Question. 
"Tony, can you guys keep winning without throw­ing the ball?" 
"I think we can," says Rice. 
Uh oh. 

First, the facts. In games Tony Rice has started at quarterback for Notre Dame, the Irish are 6-2. When he has thrown ten or less passes, Notre Dame has not lost. Rice has thrown the ball 21 times this fall for five completions. The Irish are 2-0. 
Notre Dame defeated Michigan and Michigan State without effectively throwing the football. 
Notre Dame can probably get by Purdue without throwing the football. Notre Dame could probably beat the Owls of Rice without seeing the football. And maybe Notre Dame can even upset Miami with­out throwing the football. 
But if the Irish are going to remain a Top 10 team they have to have a threat of being effective in the passing game. And right now they do not even have that threat. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

"Vegas ought to post odds every time we drop back to pass," said Holtz in yesterday's weekly press conference. 
The Irish have an explosive running attack. Rice was masterful on Saturday in his decision-making with the option. Much maligned in the preseason, the Notre Dame offensive line is opening holes in the defense and shutting up doubters. But Holtz realizes that keeping all your eggs in one basket is not a smart idea. 
"The last thing I want to be is a team that runs the option because we have to run the option," says Holtz. "We have to be able to run between the tackles and throw the football, and we haven't been able to do either." 
The option alone cannot support a team seeking a national championship. Without the threat of a consistent passing attack, an offense becomes stale and predictable. And stoppable. 
The blame cannot go solely on the shoulders of Tony Rice. His arm has improved, now his confi­dence needs to come around. That has to happen at the same time a green group of recievers, who are not always exactly perfect in their passing routes, learn the ropes. 
"We do some things awfully well but we do not do them on a consistent basis," said Holtz. "All anybody wants to know is what to expect when the ball is snapped. If you're gonna throw the sucker into the eighth row of the stands and do it every single time then at least you know what to call on and what to do--it's the inconsistency that's the problem." 
Holtz knows its a problem. So too will the Irish if, and when, the running game doesn't come to­gether as smoothly as it did in the final twenty minutes in East Lansing. 



