

Plunge Into fall?
IACCENT: Smithereens preview Variable cloudiness today with a 60 percent chance of 
rain showers, possibly mixed 
with sleet. High in the middle
IVIEWPOINT: Media: facts or fiction? 
40s. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 37 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Police crash AIDS demonstration 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md.-­Hundreds of demonstrators, demanding easier access to ex­perimental drugs for people with AIDS, blocked entrances to the Food and Drug Adminis­tration's headquarters Tues­day, prompting police to close the building to arriving employees. 
Vito Russo, a New York writer who said he was diagnosed with AIDS in 1985, said the demonstrators did not want the FDA to stop testing drugs, but to move faster and make AIDS drugs available as soon as it is determined they are safe -rather than waiting to judge their effectiveness as well. 
"The side effect of AIDS is death," Russo said. 
Montgomery County police, some of them wearing clear 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA, Ohio -A high school freshman stole the show and left Republican vice presidential candidate Dan Quayle temporarily speechless during a rally Tuesday when the youth announced he had been forbidden from displaying his homemade "Dukakis '88" poster. 
The Indiana senator was caught by surprise when young Sean Hertzch rose during a 
Student can pick up new ID cards 
Special to The Observer 
Student photo ID cards are now available for those stu­dents who had their ID photographs taken between Aug. 20 and Sept. 23, accor­ding to the University Registrar's office. 
The cards may be picked up Monday through Friday at the Registrar's Office at 213 Adminstration Building from 8:30a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Students must return tern porary ID cards,-the plastic Vali-dine card and the paper temporary card, to pick up their new student photo ID cards. Students who lose the temporary cards will be charge $5 for each lost card. If the Vali-dine card is lost, the ID photograph must be retaken. 
plastic surgical gloves, ar­rested and charged 175 demonstrators with loitering for blocking entrances. One protester was arrested and charged with assault and bat­tery of an officer during the slow, methodical process which went on for more than six hours. 
Most of the arrested protesters elected to walk to the waiting police buses, where they were handcuffed with plastic ties. A few chose to be dragged and were accom­modated by pairs of officers. Police said all those arrested were later released and would be scheduled to appear in court at a later date. 
Four men climbed atop two of the buses and huddled under blankets whipped by a chilly wind. Police made no attempt 
see AIDS, page 7 
question-and-answer session in the gymnasium of Ottawa­Glandorf High School to ask Quayle's position on freedom of speech in the school. 
"Do you agree with the school's policy of not letting me hold this sign up?" the boy asked, waving the remains of a blue-and-white Dukakis sign. 
"They won't let me hold this sign up." 
Quayle, obviously surprised by the query, paused as he searched for an appropriate 

.... 
auditions 
The Effect of Gamma Rays on 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1988 

Areas of change 
Father Edward Malloy held his first annual address to faculty members last night in Washington Hall. He 
Man-In-the-Moon­auditions Tuesday in the theater lab in Washington 
in this country and there are disagreements ... that's what this election is all about," he said. 
"There is a disagreement be­tween George Bush and Mi­chael Dukakis and you're going to make the decision," he said. 
Ruhe later said he had told 
Hertzch that he didn't care if 
the youth took the sign to the 
speech, so long as it was 
cleared with the people in 
see QUAYLE, page 8 
ISP active in Peace Program 
Special to The Observer 
This fall the question, "What sort of world would you like to live in?" was asked of 13 stu­dents from nine countries study at Notre Dame. 
The students, who represent the United States, Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, Israel, Japan and other nations, are participating in the University's International Scholars Program OSP) this year. 
Conducted by Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies, the program has begun its second year. ISP scholars will live together in a campus residence hall named International Peace House un­til June 9, 1989, pursuing master's degrees in peace 
see PEACE, page 4 
response. 
"Hold it up! hold it up," Quayle said, trying to make himself heard above the crowd's noisy rebuke of the youth. 
Then, asking the crowd to be quiet, Quayle again asked Hertzch what his question was. The boy repeated it, adding that although the Secret Ser­vice agents .in the gym had said the sign posed no problem, the school's superintendent, Mi­chael Ruhe, had told him such a display was inappropriate. 
"I believe that the school and I imagine the school policy here has freedom of speech," said Quayle, again struggling for words. 
"If you want to hold that sign . up, or any other sign up, go ahead and hold it up. You're not going to bother me," he said. 
He then regained his com­posure and turned his answer into a campaign promotion. 
"We have freedom of speech 
Marigolds, the upcoming play at Notre Dame, held Hall. 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN ­
IN BRIEF 
Divorces don't come cheaply, especially when you make $61 million, so a local rock band is throwing a benefit concert for Bruce Springsteen. The announcement for the Oct. 29 "Bucks for Boss" benefit by the Decibels was tinged with sarcasm. "His upcoming, self-inflicted divorce and all the time he has donated to causes have probably drained the guy," the release said. The Decibels plan to give away a pink Cadillac at the concert, a prize inspired by Springsteen's hit song about the car. -Associated Press 
Princess Diana admitted a dislike for needles Tuesday when she visited a clinic where young children were being injected under a government inoculation drive. 
"What on Earth have you set this up for? you know I can't stand injections," she said to her aid while touring the clinic in Stevenage, in western England. 
The 27-year-old Diana, wife of heir to the throne Prince Charles, turned away when a 4-year-old girl and a 13­month-old girl were given injections. The government pro­gram aims to immunize up to 660,000 children a year in Britain against mumps and rubella. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST '. 

Most conversations cluttered by cliches 
It's coming. Less than two weeks from now students will be faced with it. Some may come upon it in class. others will encounter it in the dining halls. A few might even hear it on the quad. 
The dreaded question: "Hi, how are you? How was your break?" The dreaded answer: "Good." 
Granted, by the time I finish saying, "Well, when I arrived in Florida after a 16 hour flight delay they told me my luggage was on its way to Turkey. I drove to the hotel only to find that the booking was for the following week, so I had to sleep on a cot in the conference room. It rained the entire week, and to top it all off, there wasn't a bar within twenty miles that would accept my fake ID." 
The lucky recipient of my good tidings is prob­ably halfway across the quad by now on his way to his 11:00 class. 
Still, every time I catch myself labelling something "good" I curse myself for my in­ability to to use a term more interesting than one which can encompass feelings about Chemistry 117, University Foodservice's rendi­tion of Double Domerburgers, yesterday's Far Side, or how I felt when I got out of bed this morning. 
One would think, sometimes, that no one had anything more interesting to say than a few overused cliches. That can't be true: in the last few years, I have discovered that underneath the "goods" and "I'm fines" there are people with unique and entertaining stories to tell, if only I take the time to engage them in con­versation. It's far too easy to limit a relationship to the now-and-then exchange of a few fre­quently used phrases. 
"Hey, what's going on?" 
"Nothing much." 
A handful of people can honestly say, "I've decided to renounce the material world and be­come one with nature." That doesn't necessar­ily mean that the remaining ninety-nine percent of us lead humdrum lives. 
A blow-by-blow recount of the most recent 
roommate squabble is probably inappropriate for a nodding acquaintance, but limiting a friendship to four years of trading worn out jokes can also become tiresome. 
I spent a day searching for alternatives to "good" and tested them on various acquain­tances I encountered on the quad. I found that "brilliant", "healthful", "palatable" and of course, "unobnoxious" merited some surprised expressions, but people were left in little doubt about how I felt. In addition, it was a wonderful conversation piece. 

Alison Cocks 
Assistant Production ManaQer 
j~f 
" 

CONVE-RSATION ET I QUE't'TE 'TocAy's "TOI"Ic.·. HINO&ftiNc; 'I'HE Pl;li.-06V€ =:: ~~.-FA.ux PAS 
Lately, I have also found myself making men­tal notes of catchphrases I have heard repeatedly in the past few weeks. "How'd you do on the test?", "Did you get your paper done?" and "How's your hell week going?" are among the favorites. 
While I agree that these are relevant to our lives, surely there is more to us than a few standard questions and answers. 
I used to wonder how many people honestly cared whether I was good, bad or indifferent, but by spending time avoiding what I feel are overused expressions, I particularly enjoyed talking to people because I didn't feel as though I could predict every word they would say. I discovered that maybe my life isn't as ordinary as I had once thought. 
I may not lead a dramatic life, compared to the lives depicted on the news or in "Days of our Lives" but, realistically, no one else I know does either. Fewer awkward pauses, seven­minute lulls and nervous laughter punctuate my conversations because I crack one or two jokes whose origin I can no longer remember and then run out of topics of conversation. 
Not only that, I might graduate in two years' time with fewer regrets because I tried to make the time to go beyond the superficial convers­tions once in awhile. I'm down to fewer "goods" a day and am the happier for it. It's the most enjoyable habit I've ever tried to break. 
~· ------·---------------------------------~------------------~~--------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Shaw of CNN to moderate debate 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Bernard Shaw of Cable News Net­work will serve as moderator of Thursday night's prime-time clash be­tween George Bush and Mi­chael Dukakis, announced the sponsoring Commission on Presidential Debates on Tuesday. 
The commission said Andrea Mitchell of NBC, Ann Compton of ABC and Margaret Warner of Newsweek would pose the questions to the candidates. 
The announcement came after CBS anchorman Dan Rather said he had declined an invitation to be a panelist. 
Rather said the format agreed to by the two cam­paigns was "not the best" and added he would rather report on the event than par­ticipate in it. 
The 90-minute debate will begin at 9 p.m. EDT Thursday in Pauley Pavilion on the UCLA campus in Los Angeles, barring a rainout that delays the conclusion of the National League baseball playoffs. 
In a reverse of the first debate, the first question will go to Dukakis, and Bush will have the final closing statement, according to Bob Neuman, spokesman for the commission. 
The Observer /Jim Brake l
Only two more milliliters 
John Gehred, a sophomore who lives in Stanford chemistry lab. Hall, watches his experiment closely in his organic 
1 
i 
I 
1
Shouts of 'anti-Christ' interrupt Pope's speech 

--------------· Associated Press STRASBOURG, France--A
esume 
militant Protestant leader from Northern Ireland, Ian Paisley, disrupted Pope John
Service 
Paul II's unity speech to the 
• Fine Sl:ltioncry 
European Parliament on Tues­day by shouting: "I renounce 
For J r~umc that can do the job, 
depend on Kinko,s. • Matching Em·clopcs 

you as the anti-Christ!" The pontiff had just begun

kinko•s~ 
delivering the key speech of his four-day trip to northeastern
the co center 
France, a talk in which he 
Peace Corps On-Campus Interviews 

Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a paycheck. In science, education, agriculture, forestry, home economics, industrial arts and other areas, Peace Corps volunteers are putting their degrees to work where it's needed most while gaining the experience of a lifetime: 
• 
Currently 34 graduate schools across the country reserve scholarships and assistantships specifically for former Peace Corps members. Many graduate schools offer academic credit for Peace Corps service. 

• 
Quality work experience recognized by employers. 

• 
Non-competitive eligibility for U.S. Government jobs. 

• 
Language skills. 

• 
Postponement of educational loans. $5,400 completion-of-service allowance. Opportunity to travel and to experience new cultures. 

• 
And much more. Contact your Placement Office for an interview appointment today. 


Film Seminar Wed., Oct. 26 at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Interviews: Thurs. & Fri. Nov. 3rd & 4th Career & Placement Office 
urged Europe to adopt a com­mon political structure. The European Parliament is an ad­visory body to the 12-member European Economic Commu­nity. 
Paisley stood by his desk in the back of the assembly cham­ber during welcoming remarks by Lord Plumb, president of the Parliament. As the pope began speaking, he was imme­diately interrupted by Paisley, standing about 11 rows from the pontiff. 
"I renounce you! I renounce you as the anti-Christ," shouted Paisley, leader of the Irish Protestant Democratic Unionist Party, who was in­stantly surrounded by about a dozen deputies to the Parlia­ment. They shouted to drown out his insults, threw paper at him and tore from his hands a crude orange banner reading: "Pope John Paul II, anti­Christ." 
Plumb twice called for order and then evicted Paisley to the applause of deputies and an es­timated 300 spectators in the 
gallery. A group of deputies dragged and shoved Paisley from the 
hall. He later told journalists, "I was hammered. I was beaten about the ears and body." 
John Paul smiled briefly at the outburst and resumed his speech that was again inter­rupted, this time by a round of applause. 
Paisley has spearheaded op­position to the 1985 Anglo-Irish agreement which granted the government of Catholic­dominated Ireland a say in the running of Northern Ireland, a British province where 60 per­cent of the population is Prot­estant. 
The pope has not taken a stand on whether the province should be united with the Irish Republic but has called for peace and reconciliation be­tween Catholics and Protes­tants. 
As he has throughout his trip, John Paul urged the unification of Europe and encouraged the nations to serve as "a beacon in the civilization of the world" by fighting pollution, prejudice and secularization. 
~llVV~<! (7<rAV
Tickets on Sale Friday With Special Guest 
JOHN KILZER EDNESDAY,NOVEMBER2 
7:30P.M. Morris Civi Auditorium 
All Seats ru!stl!rvl!n• 
$16.50 
Tickets Available At The Auditorium Box Office Night Winds (South 
Bend, Niles), Connection (Elkhart), Record &Tapes (Elkhart) & Super Sounds (Elkhart). 
OR CHARGE BY PHONE (219) 284-9190 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
studies while building a com­munity together. 
All 13 students will take part in a yearlong seminar, "Peace and World Order Studies" and a "Colloquium on Culture and Peace," including other courses offered in the Peace Studies program. 
The ISP was conceived in 1986 by Father Theodore Hes­burgh, University president emeritus and chairman of the Institute's international advi­sory board, at about the time the Institute was established. 
Hesburgh came up with the idea of young graduate stu­dents from all over the world living and working together in an intensive yearlong effort to design 1'1 wnrld thev would like to live in. Last year, 12 student from eight countries studied in the program. 
The students' academic backgrounds include law, phi­losophy, political science, busi­ness, international relations, applied linguistics, French, journalism and physics. 
Participants in the 1988-1989 program include: -Jamal Abu-Attiyeh, 26, of the Jenin Refugee Camp on Pales­tine's West Bank. Abu-Attiyeh, a 1986 graduate of Birzeit Uni­versity, worked as an English teacher and interpreter for journalists in the West Bank area. -Emil Bolongaita, 26, of Cayan de Oro City, Philippines. Bolon­gaita, a graduate of Ateneo de Manila University, taught so­cial sciences and math at Xavier University High School last year. -Raul Campusano, 26, of Chile. Campusano, a graduate of the University of Chile's law 
school, has been a 12-year member of the Christian base community movement in Chile. -Cobbie de Graft, 26, of Accra, Ghana. A graduate of Hope Col­lege in Michigan, De Graft has worked for the American Asso­ciation for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C. -Maite Gallego, 22, of Manila, Philippines. Gallego, a graduate of De La Salle Uni­versity, worked as an accoun­tant for Proctor and Gamble in the Philippines. -Edna Hidekel, 25, of Jerusalem. A graduate of Hebrew Univer­sity, Hidekel served as a lieutenant in the Israeli Army 
and worked for the Likud Party. -Susan Hixon, 22, of Carlsbad, Calif. Hixon, a graduate of Chapman College who lived with a French family during a year's study in Paris, was ac­tive in church-based peace groups. -Keiko Nagai Ito, 26, of Tokyo. Ito, a law graduate of Waseda University with a master's in international studies from Sop­hia University, is interested in international political economy and development problems. -Felicia Leon, 24, of Wellsburg, W.Va. A Notre Dame graduate 
who served as a residential as­sistant in London, Leon has done postgraduate work at West Virginia University. -Vitaly Rassolov, 20, of Kish'­niev, U.S.S.R. Rassolov, a fourth-year student in chemi­cal physics at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Tech­nology, is an accomplished chess player. -Oleg Vasilyev, 20, of Alma-Ata, 
U.S.S.R. A fourth-year student in aerodynamics and physics at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Vasilyev enjoys mountaineer­ing, skiing and building electronic models. 
-Liang Fang Yan, 23, of Shan­ghai, People's Republic of China. Yan, a graduate of Shanghai International Studies University, has taught English in secondary schools and served as an interpreter. -Liang Zhu, 26, of Beijing, People's Republic of China. A graduate of Peking Foreign Languages Institute, Zhu has earned a master's degree in po­litical science from Northern Illinois University. 
For more information on the International Scholars Pro­gram, call program adminis­trator Anne Hayner at 239-5014. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
Now acceplin8 applications for JPW Executive Committee! 
Available in Office of Student Activities or from Chris Boron in 241 P.W. Due b 5 , Frida Oct. 14th 

Sculptures of Therese Zemlin as they are featured in Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's College. 
The International Student Organization is currently developing a publication dedicated to promot~ awareness and understanding of 1nternat1onal1ssues as experienced by students. We ar_e looki~Q for people interested in the followmg pos1t1ons: • Editors 
• Operation Manager
• Photo Manager Applications will be available at the ISO lounge, 
second floor La Fortune Center until Friday Oct. 14. 
For more information, call: Manuel Cuevas 1233 Felix Villalba 2465 .M' 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12TH 12:30-SPM WHAT'S THE FUTURE  ._, OFFICE OF CZ\MPUS MINISTRY  
OF THIS RELATIONSHIP?  
For couples in a serious relationship, who want to explore choices and decisions for the future, including the possibility of marriage.  
TOPICS 1"0 BE PRESENTED:  COMMENTS FROM LAST YEAR:  

-Stages of relationships -"an excellent opportunity to examine our relationship -Expectations for the future in a comprehensive way" 
-Steps in making healthy decisions 
-"It was very helpful for both of us" -This seminar really helped to clarify where our relationship stands and where it is going" 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office­Library Concourse or Badin Hall 
Applications are due by Nov.4th 


Greg Dudeck works on the entrance to the North Dining Commons on Tuesday. 


Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
The Observer 
Another nuclear plant shut down due to health and safety violations 
Associated Press He gave the DOE credit for "It simply confirms what 
"taking the offensive." many people have said all 
GOLDEN, Colo.--The virtual It was the second major along -that safety and health shutdown of the Rocky Flats suspension of nuclear weapons problems at the plant are nuclear weapons plant because production in two months. greater than the DOE and of a safety violation follows Three reactors at the Savannah Rockwell (International Corp., repeated complaints by River Plant in South Carolina which operates the planO have workers, citizens' groups and were shut down in August be­been willing to admit," he said. the government that manage­cause of safety concerns. DOE shut down the main ment had a cavalier attitude plutonium processing room at toward health and safety. The DOE has made no plans Rocky Flats, 16 miles 
Jim Wilson, who heads a for either plant to reopen. northwest of Denver. state-appointed monitoring Tom Rauch of Citizens The shutdown in Building 771 commission on radioactive Against Rocky Flats Contami­at Rocky Flats apparently waste at Rocky Flats, called nation, a grassroots group stems from a Sept. 29 incident the shutdown Saturday sym­formed last year to protest the in which a Rockwell supervisor bolic of the Department of En­proposed incineration of radio­and two employees entered a ergy's new attention to prob­active wastes at Rocky Flats·, building without respirators lems at the country's aging saw the shutdown as a slap at because a warning sign was nuclear weapons plants. plant management. blocked from view. 
Energy Department adopts new nuclear safety rules 
Associated Press conference called to discuss plutonium, the other fuel 
problems with the three reac­produced there. 
WASHINGTON -Seeking to tors at Savannah River. "We are comfortable that "rectify past sins" in the oper­Department officials had Savannah River will operate at ation of weapons reactors, En­planned to restart one of the a sufficient level to meet the ergy Department officials on reactors as early as November, tritium needs of the future," Tuesday announced new safety but now plan to begin a four­Salgado told reporters. procedures that they said week "phased restart" that The news conference was would delay the reopening of will begin in December, said called to defuse criticism of the the Savannah River Plant but Herrington's deputy, Joseph Energy Department not only would not jeopardize the na­Salgado. over the Savannah RivP"" Pl nnt. tion's nuclear deterrent. located in Aiken, S.C., but also 
"We are about to embark on Salgado sought to calm fears over radioactive contamina­a program to restart, to move about possible shortages of the tion at another facility in Rocky back to a safe operating level, nuclear weapons material Flats, Colo., and over allegedly those reactors ... at the end of produced at Savannah River, lax security at weapons labo­the year," Energy Secretary especially of tritium, which ratories in New Mexico and John Herrington told a news decays more quickly than California. 
page 5 

In related developments Tuesday: 
-President Reagan voiced concern about the safety prob­lem during a meeting with top officials of the departments of Defense and Energy, Chief of Staff Kenneth Duberstein said. 
Duberstein, in an interview with the wire services, quoted Reagan as telling the adminis­tration officials that "we are most concerned and most com­mitted to making sure that all safety precautions are taken and that all rules and regula­tions be followed." 
-The chairman of E.l. du Pont Nemours and Co., which operates Savannah River un­der contract for the Energy De­partment, reacted angrily to charges that company employees had a lax attitude about nuclear safety. R.E. Heckert charged that du Pont was "caught in a political cross-fire" between the En­ergy Department and Capitol Hill. 
TbeMacitlloshl'lus,pou~a11tlaffordnble TbeMadnJoshSE,pou~andtxfltmdable 
Heres amultiple choice quiz you really can't fail. In fact, it may even improve yourG.P.A.: 
Should you buy one of our Macintosh'" Plus personal computers? Or one of our Macintosh SE personal computers? 
The answer, of course, depends. 
If you've been holding out for that ever-elusive combinationof high performance and affordability, you'll very likely want our Macintosh Plus. It has one full megabyte of RAM.128K of ROM. And adouble-sided 800K internal disk drive. 
Translated, that means the Macintosh Plus can plot astatistical formula or repaginate areport in the time it took you to read this sentence. 
But-ifyou truly want to expand your horizons-we suggest the Macintosh SE. It has all the attributes of the Plus, plus alittle more. Like one megabyte of RAM, expandable to four megabytes. Awalloping 256K of ROM. As well as an expansion slot that lets you customize the system fOr your particular needs. 
And to ensure you have plenty of space for your growing intellect, theSE gives you achoice oftwo storage options. Either two built-in 800Kdisk drives. Or one built-in 800K disk drive along with an internal 20-megabyte hard disk. 
So even if your term paper begins to reach epic proportions, you can rest assured you'll have room for the whole thing. All six hundred footnotes included. 
Th learn more, visit your campus microcomputer center. They'll gladly answer any questions, including the one your parents will ask: 
How much? 
ti.The power to be yourbesC 
~~ 
Computer Center 8:00AM-5:00PM Room 25 Math Building 
'r 
I 
I 
~ 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988
pageS The Observer 
DEAN WIITER CAPITAL MARKETS 
Invites All Accountancy, Finance and Economics Majors To A Presentation On 
Opportunities In Corporate Finance 
Morris Inn The Notre Dame Room Wednesday, October 12, 1988 8:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. 

Associated Press  ''We  went  as  a  scientific  killed  or  run  away,"  said  
group lo exchange knowledge  Figley. "But he killed the kid,  
ZIONSVILLE,  Ind.-­ Many  in our specialties, but it turned  right through the temple."  
Soviet  veterans  of  the  Af­ out to be a much more personal  Fearing his own potential for  
ghanistan war suffer from de­ kind of thing," he said. The trip  future  violence,  the  veteran  
pression,  combat flashbacks,  was  organized  by  Earth  has  chosen  not  to  have  
drug  and  alcohol  abuse  and  Stewards Inc., a Seattle peace  children, he said. "And that led  
high suicide rates,  a  Purdue  organization, and approved by  up to the question, "Can I ever  
University  psychologist  said  the Central Committee of the  forget this?"' he said. "And I  
Tuesday.  Soviet Communist Party and  told him, no, he'll never be able  
"They  don't  understand  the Soviet military, he said.  forget this."  
what's happening to them, and  But remembering the inci­ 
the people in the country who  One  member of the  group  dent in detail will help relieve  
are responsible for them don't  found himself drinking shots of  the stress, as well as realizing  
either,"  said  psychologist  vodka for  six hours with  an  that he might have intention­ 
Charles Figley.  emotion!'lllv l'h::Jr!!ed group of  ally fired wide at first to avoid  
The symptoms are identical  Soviet veterans,  members of  killing  the  child,  he  said.  
to  the  post-traumatic  stress  an informal Afgantsy club, said  "That's the sort of thing you  
disorders  that  has  troubled  Figley. The clubs have sprung  build on in therapy," he said.  
thousands of American veter­ up across the Soviet Union and  
<ms of the Vietnam War, Figley  give the veterans a chance to  The Soviet military bureau­ 
'­'  ,'\-l  ~.aid.  begin healing the traumas of war by talking with each other,  cracy is not geared up to offer adequate services to its Af­ 
Figley joined American ex­ he said.  ghanistan  veterans,  he  said.  
perts in fields such as artificial  A  25-year-old  veteran  im­ The general public has been  
limbs and wheelchairs on a 15­ plored Figley for help in coping  generally sympathetic to their  
day trip to the Soviet Union to  with the fact he shot to death a  service in an unsuccessful war,  
work with counterparts there.  child who had fired on his tank,  although civilians  were  apat­ 
He  also  met  with  65  "Af­ wounding two fellow soldiers.  hetic during the early years  
A snow blanket  Associated Press  gantsy," or returned veterans of the Afghanistan war, before  "He missed the kid with his last round, and was reloading and  when the government said the army's role was non-military,  
A very early snowfall hit the area of northern Maine on Sunday. Up to  returning Saturday to Indiana.  hoping the kid would either be  he said.  
two inches of snow fell causing several places to be without utilities  
because of down wires.  

~---------------~-~--~~-~ ~------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
The Observer pag~ 7 
I • 
Soviet war veterans have same stress as Vietnam vets 
America's Cup yacht seized by Cuban navy 
Associated Press  The Tampa Seahorse, a New  Coast Guard in Miami that the  The master of the ship dis­ spokeswoman  at  the  New  
Orleans-based  ship,  was  America's Cup entry, the New  puted the Cuban navy's claim  Zealand consulate in Los An­ 
MIAMI-­ A Cuban  gunboat  sailing about 12 miles off the  Zealand, was aboard the ship,  that the vessel was inside the  geles.  
seized  a  160-foot supply ship  southeastern tip of Cuba when  which was en route from Long  island  nation's  territorial  Kerrigan said New Zealand  
carrying New Zealand's entry  the  gunboat approached  and  Beach,  Calif.,  to  New  York  waters and placed  an  urgent  officials have ask{'d the State  
in the America's Cup race and  seized  it,  said  Coast  Guard  City.  call to the Coast Guard at about  Department and Coast Guard  
detained  eight  United  States  spokesman Dan Vogeley.  3 p.m. EDT. Coast Guard offi­ to  help  gain  the  vessel's  
citizens  Tuesday,  the  Coast  There  were  no  reports  of  cers  advised  the  master  to  release.  
Guard said.  The ship's agent later told the  shots fired or use of force, and  comply, Vogeley said.  
the ship and crew were taken  "They are confident of no sig­ 
• On October 14th the +···················­ without further incident to Cayo Mola, Cuba, Vogeley  The ship was escorted to the port "for inspection purposes,"  nificant delay" in winning release of both vessels, said  
+  Michiana Jazz Society  +  said.  said  Maggie  Kerrigan,  a  Kerrigan.  


: is sponsoring the first of its + 
Air Force tanker returning to base
t JAZZ CONCERTS : 
+ The first concert in the series + crashes and kills six military men 
+ 
will be at Knollwood Country Club + Associated Press at the air base in the northeast­aboard the plane were military

+ 
at 9:00pm t ern lower peninsula. personnel. OSCODA, Mich.--An Air Reports received by the The four-engine plane was

+ 
Featuring: + Force tanker plane crashed Pentagon indicated the plane reported to be on fire at the end 

+ 
Saxophonist Rusty Bryant + Tuesday at Wurtsmith Air was carrying six crewmen and of the runway after the crash, 


Force Base, killing six people 10 passengers, said Lt. Col. he said.+ of the Blue Wift + and injuring 10 others, aut­Rick O'Born, a Pentagon According to aU.S. Air Force 
+ 
along with + horities said. spokesman in Washington, fact sheet, the KC-135 is a mil­A KC-135 Stratotanker used D.C. itary version of the Boeing 707

+ 
The Steve Schmidt Trio + to refuel other planes went Eight of the 10 injured were transport and can fly at near

+ 
Season Memberships ar available for + down at 2:20p.m. as it was re­treated at the base hospital, sonic speed and at altitudes up 

turning to the base from a mis­Sgt. Darryle Moody said. He to 50,000 feet, allowing receiver : $} 0 the day of the concert : sion to K.l. Sawyer Air Force said the two people admitted to aircraft to onload fuel without

+ 
For more information call + Base in Michigan's Upper the base hospital were in good slowing down or descending to Peninsula, said Staff Sgt. condition Tuesday night. lower altitudes where jet en­


• 288-1339 • Donald Lawber, a spokesman Moody said all the people gines burn fuel more rapidly. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center ~ NORTHERN ~ AIDS
···················~ 
tor the Study of American Catholicism 0t"l continued from page 1 
Announces the Annual ~ IRELAND SEMINAR to remove them until they got 
ready to move the buses. When HIBERNIAN LECTURE f SPRING BREAK 1989 
, the men refused to get off the 
rooftops, they were handcuffed "LOOKING THROUGH THE ~ and dropped through hinged 
~ skylights into the compart­
LACE CURTAIN: 
10 DAYS IN IRELAND ments below -to cheers and THE IRISH-AMERICAN SEARCH A LAND OF SUFFERING AND HOPE laughter from their watching 
compatriots.
FOR IDENTITY AT THE TURN 
with pre trip orientation and follow up 
At least two glass door panels 
OF THE CENTURY" reflection 
were broken during jostling be­tween surging crowds and
Presented by : 
INFORMATION NIGHT: police during the early minutes of the demonstration. 
DR. TIMOTHY J. MEAGHER THURSDAY OCTOBER 13 
National Endowment for the Humanities 
7:30PM Thursday, October 13, 1988 CENTER FOR SOCIAL 
+
American 
4:15P.M. 
Red Cross
~ CONCERNS
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Be a volunteer. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Wednesday, October 12, 1988
pageS The Observer 
Drought-stricken farmers aided 
Associated Press they can quickly return to being productive." 
WASHINGTON--The Labor Five areas of Texas will get Department awarded two mil­a total of $1.5 million to assist lion dollars in emergency some 1,100 migrant workers re­grants Tuesday to programs in turning to the state, their home four states, including Indiana, in the winter, with little or no for retraining migrant and income because of the effects seasonal farm workers whose of the drought on crops. The jobs were lost to the effects of five areas are Rural Costal the summer drought. Bend, Middle Rio Grand, South 
The funds are from a special Texas, Cameron County and five million dollar account es­Hidalgo and Wallacy Counties. tablished under the Job Train­Oregon will get $824,500 to ing Partnership Act when it be­help up to 360 of some 12,000 came clear that the dry surplus farm workers because summer weather would have a water shortages in the eastern devastating effect on fall har­part of the state decimated vest employment. sugar beet, oniQn, potato and 
"These workers are caught bean crops. in an adverse situation beyond 
. ktj;;~.­
The Rural Alabama Develop­their control," said Labor Sec­
m:t.*i.Sffl~ 
Associated Press 
retary Ann McLaughlin. "We ment Corp. was awarded want to provide them with the $200,000 to help up to 155 necessary skills training so seasonal farm workers.
ship was one of the many attractions in New York's anual Columbus Day parade on Monday. 
Who's that
Most elderly drivers found to pose complete
less of a driving risk than teenagers crackerba/1 
Associated Press reaction time, vision problems way markings were redesigned behind those and difficulties in gauging to meet the needs of older WASHINGTON--A federal heavy traffic flow. drivers. Many road signs can­shades? 
study of elderly motorists But the study said while not properly be seen by 40 per­
called Tuesday for better driving skills often deteriorate cent of the drivers who are 65 Happy Early 
screening to identify impaired after age 75, many elderly years of age· or older, the study 
Birthday
drivers, but concluded there is people are "capable and safe said. no justification to restrict drivers" who pose less of a risk ''Age alone is a poor predic­
Tony!
driving solely on the basis of to highway safety than teen­tor of the (driving) perfor­age. age drivers. mance of any individual," said 
(Oct. 24} 
The report by the National The panel of experts sugges­the report, although after 75 ~ 
Research Council said that ted some of the problems with driver is "about twice as likely 
older drivers pose a greater elderly drivers could be eased (per mile driven) to be in-
risk of being involved in acci­if roadway signs were made volved in a crash" as middle-~·<$;•<$o•.q~.;.q.;~•<4>"·-<41<D-...Q•~><Q·tQ•~"><4'~-.0"><4.,0•.~'><6»<...:oh<.~:~ 
dents because of their slower larger and brighter and high-aged drivers. 
High and dry 
A replica of Columbus' ship, the Santa Maria, makes it way down Manhattan's Fifth Ave. The centipede 
9n~d~X!~ 
charge, including the Secret Service. 
''Apparently, some students asked him to put it down or move the sign -he was taking some peer pressure from fel­low classmates," Rube said. "But at no time did anyone from the administration say he could not put that sign up." 
Rube said he did overhear some people remark that they felt the sign was inappropriate. He said he believed it was a group of students, adults ­including some members of the office staff -and community leaders, but no teachers or ad­ministrators. 
Quayle quickly turned to an­other question, but shot a worried glance toward the youth who was soon sur­rounded by reporters. Hertzch said not only had he been told not to display his sign, but it also had been torn in half by fellow freshman Donald Stover. 

PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
.AMERICAN CANCER SOCIE'TY' 
"I'm a Democrat and I like Mike Dukakis and I think I should be able to carry this sign in here," Hertzch said. 
Stover, however, was mad at his classmate and said he was glad he had torn the sign, leaving Hertzch with only the letters "Duk." 
"I didn't like it " Stover ex­plained. "Dukaki~ don't even believe in the death penalty." 
Hertzch appeared uni­mpressed with the attention his question had drawn, but wavered when asked if he ex­pected to be punished for his actions. 
"Naw," he said, then smiled nervously. "Well, maybe." 
Asked if he planned to take action against the youth, Rube said, "No. Absolutely not. I think he has to be talked to about getting his facts straight, but as far as disciplinary action goes, no." 
OCTOBER 9 -15. 1988 _ CHURCH When tl}e ~reat American 
~~~~~~~~E~S Dr:~~~~:~~:.~:~~~~;~~~gh
~~ !ant to ach1eve but only to possess what success can bring. The implied promise: "the more you gel and spend the happier you 
WEE K will be" is an empty one. 
Success in life isn't how much we can gel but what kind of difference we can make In the lives of people. To be a priest,
Consider Ministry 
deacon, sister or brother in today"s world Is to touch the very 


heart of life, to enable people to grow into the fullness of who they are meant to be. 
Through Church ministry you experience the fullness of faith, hope, belonging and love. You carry Christ's message of good news. You reach out to those who are hurting. You stand for justice and mercy in a world that"s not just a liuJe crazy. You realize you don't have to buy the mountain to climb it The climb Is a tough one. One which will take faith and determination. 
The first step Is always the hardest; you should speak With someone who once was exactly where you are today. Someone who had the same doubts and fears. Someone who has been there, someone who won't make any promises but who might help you ask the right questions. 
Rev. John Conley. CSC Vocation Director Holy Cross Priests & Brothers
PHONE: (219) 239-6385 
Box 541 Notre Dame. Ind. 
Consider Ministry, a dream worth living. 
]
NOW OPEN Ths M~L~B~R Excellent 1ncltan Cutstne Tue. -SGt. 5:00pm-II :00,. 
RESER,~T10NSDESUlED 
1709SOUTHIENDAft:. (EDUON e&MU.S. 21) 
(219) 271-0115 


~~--------------------------------~-~ 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 The Observer page 9 
60-NINERS THOUGHT: TOP TEN QUOTES FROM PITTIMAHAR HOW 'BOUT IT? I LOST A GOLD BANGLE BRACELET OOOHH ... DOES FARM ll's Steve Dyokas' AT JERKS HURT YOUR WITTLE 10. STOP AT THE HARDEE'S IT'S THE 20th B-Day 
THE SOPHOMORE FORMAL OR FEEWINGS7 1ST EXIT protect the kids from Eddie and the BEFORE IT. THEN YOU ARE WOUND WAY TOO 9. IS THIS A ONE WAY STREET? wrath of VH LOVE Kerry, Lori, Dave 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE AND A TIGHTII 8. GO HOME NOW IT'S A BLOWOUT 
$GREAT REWARD$ PLEASE CALL 
7. THIS IS HARSH. 
ASHLEY J11 2799 331 LYONS 
6. THIS IS THE 2ND LARGEST BLACK RADMAN (that's what someone yelled President Amy, OAK IN THE STATE OF OHIO. at you Monday) you wore a red Mary­
You proved at Bridget's that you 5.A DOG WHO CAN'T FIND HIS WAY land sweatshirt-lookin' good! Top tO reasons to hate people who no longer have a Jr. High lace. HOME 
hale Mlami.10.N.D.alumnl can't sur! Kick some xxx on tests this week. IN THE WOODS, IS NOT A DOG 9Run up the score??ND55,Pur.7.8.0nl WORTH CLUB 23 Deep dish pizza and 
people not to sell T-shirts were GL HAVING. dally specials. Groups welcome. 
soc.7.10,000 ol them become heed CATHOUCSIN BAD 4. LET'S SACRIFICE THE OLD MAN. coaches the week ol a big game.6The 
3. I DON'T THINK SHE KNOWS WHERE support a coach who can double lor STANDING SHE'S GOING. Need ride to Okla.or anywhere close Mr.Furtay on "3's co."5.Their paren 
2. I DON'T THINK I'VE EVER RELIED for Fall Break.Will help with gas are 1st cousins.4Without M1ami, the ON A COLEMAN PRODUCT SO MUCH. and driving.Can leave or return 
would be watching highlights from 0 DANCE AND PARTY! 1. BEAT MIAMif anytime. Brad 4133. 
Golden Pond"3.Biue skies and sun do not appeal to lhem.2.Convicts have FRIDAY aftflf prep rally 
more lun.1.They wish their Johnson got the attention Jimmy's does! STEPHAN CENTER 6:30pm DON'T BLOW IT I would rather have a RUNNY NOSE Any problem WI thiS call me,Barry a BRING BACK RUNNY NOSES I hen be a jerk. t20t. 
................................................................ 

Happy Birthday Sieve, 
You domer to be. Sorry we can't be home. But you gol the next best thing, a "Hate Miami" T. 
Love Tom and David 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DETROIT AREA. 284­5089.KELLEN. 
Did you know that there are 6 buses ol M1am1 fans com1ng up tor the baseball game on Thursday? SMC CAN BY THEIR TICKETS WED DURING DIN­NER. ONLY $2. Game starts at 7 at South Bend Sox stadium. 
Eileen Joan Gagel is no longer a teenager! Happy 20th from your neighbor. 
I need a nde from MpiS'St. Paul back to school on 1 023. Please cal 284-4430. 
TO ALL MEN: BE THANKFUL THAT IT'S MARY'S BIRTHDAY. SHE LIKES MEN THIS 
WEEKI 
MARY R. THIS IS A LITTLE EARLY BUT...HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND GOOD LUCK -TEDDY AND FRIENDS ON THE 5TH 
FLOOR HEY C-C-COPPER Ill 
Just one queslion... Are Wanda and Cathy the 
kmd ol girls you can 
take home to Mary and Ed??? 
Love. 
TODD 
P.S. How's J.T.? 
O'Hare 
needs 
better 
controllers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Some flights should be rerouted to reduce congestion and the po­tential for errors by air traffic controllers at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, a Federal Aviation Adminis­tration report says. 
The FAA also should offer higher pay and other incentives to attract experienced control­lers to O'Hare and should im­prove their crowded facilities and old equipment, said an in­ternal study prepared for the agency_ 
The congestion in Chicago's skies also drew attention Tues­day from American Airlines, which asked the FAA to limit flights at all three of the city's airports. 
The FAA report, not yet released, recommends 80 steps for improving operations and safety at O'Hare, the nation's busiest airport. The proposals resulted from a month-long in­vestigation into the large num­ber of flight-handling errors there_ 
There have been 30 controller errors so far this year in the Chicago area, which includes O'Hare, Midway Airport and several satellite airfields, com­pared with 12 during all of 1987, the agency said. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
continued from page 12 
BEWARE MIAMI O'GONE IS BACKI FURMAGEI 
ONE: FIIIT"S ALL UP TO YOU­STILL TRUE. p.a--loat and found 
SUKINO HEll ~E 
I'M HEIIE,A l'f:IIFICT MATCH! TELL ME IIORE,THE LONELY CHAIUIER AWAI1'Sif 
NfY'f I 
AU I'IZZA ON ....,..y 
-ll.Aimo\MCI!II AND ~~ 2 
NEVER will you drink or dance me under the table. Just the same, good luck with your hell week. 
The I..MIM "llen:eclea Killer" 
BUT WHO NEEDS lll.OOO SHED? 
A SILKY TtiN STOCKING PASSED AROUND THE THROAT, DROPS OF POISON DISCRETELY DRIPPED, OR PERHAPS A 
HEAVY CLOTH PASSED OVER THE NOSE AND MOUTH WOULD DO THE JOB... 
C.DEMLING­THANX FOR EVERYTHING! IF YOU NEED ANYTHING I'M HERE TO LISTEN. SMILE THINGS WU GET BETTER. NA 
................................................................ 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988
page 10 
Bush faces media and Dukakis 
Separating fact from fiction during a presidential campaign can be a very trying task. Charges and counter­charges fill the air. Television and print media trot out their "conventional wis­dom" and put "spin" on events in order to interpret them to the average voter. To be more conscise, we can call this media's "conventional spin." This would not be a problem, except too many people accept conventional spin as fact --which, believe me, it is not. To see what I mean, let's look at some examples. 
Kevin Smant 
on politics 
"Michael Dukakis is now 
courageously rallying from behind." 
Rallying from ahead, you mean. Here's 
the man who held a seventeen point 
lead in July over someone caricatured 
in the media as a cross between Bozo 
the Clown, Pee Wee Herman· and Tiny 
Tim. Now, Dukakis actually trails by 
between four and nine points --yet the 
media acts as if the preceding two 
months never happened. Or they 
ascribe it to the Pledge of Allegiance 
issue. Excuse me, but twenty-point 
swings don't happen over issues like 
that. 
"George Bush is running a 'smear' 
campaign." This shows what short 
memories people have. Remember the 
Democrats' convention back in July? 
Their keynote speaker used the high­toned tactic of referring to Bush as being "born with a silver foot in his mouth." A later speaker called him a "wimp." Ted Kennedy could barely hold back his contempt as he asked "where was George?" Now Lloyd 
Bentsen personally attacks Dan Quayle for being "no Jack Kennedy." Of course Quayle was comparing his Senate ex­perience with Kennedy's --not his per­sona. But if you're a Democrat, I guess personal slurs count as brave moral judgments. 
"Michael Dukakis' proposals for health care, child care, and student aid show that he 'cares' and George Bush does not." This one comes mostly from the self-appointed guardians of Ameri­can virtue located in ther academic world. And they are right, to a point: undoubtedly, Dukakis will spend more federal dollars in those three areas than will Bush. And why is that so virtuous? All he is doing is trying to coax students, older people and mothers to vote them­selves government benefits --benefits that will come from the pocketbooks of other people. Gee, I always thought virtue had something to do with not coveting other people's things. Don't tax dollars count? George Bush pledges not to raise taxes. This applies to both rich and poor, black and white. They can keep what they earn. But what can you expect from those Ebenezer Scrooge-like Republicans? 
"Selecting Lloyd Bentsen for vice­president is purely an example of Mi­chael Dukakis' 'judgment.'" Demo­cratic party pros must be ready to explode; they're stifling so much laughter. Tell me, what did Bentsen ac­tually do of substance in the Senate? What examples can you give to prove his vaunted "readiness" to become president if disaster occurred? Fact is, the choice of Lloyd Bentsen was per­haps the most cynical act of the whole campaign. For he was chosen, despite obvious ideological fissures between him and Mr. Dukakis, for one reason, and that only: to win the state of Texas. 

Doonesbury 
HA!HA! 
... THC. UJIAIIjJ{ PfTOi, THe IAJOIA)... 
A~IV&NC.SS, THe HA!HA... 
OV/ill:/JEV8l1JP&[)MESSAG&S. 
N{JfTHJfT
I
IT'S JlJ5TA Tf?A66JY. Y&STER­
~ Cf){Jl.[)N'r.
[JAY Ht; IVASIVRAPPW IN OW 
GlORY. 7WAY l-It'S COVCRBJ I 
INSHAMe. 1 
...,_,1~ 
-..... ::::: 
Quote of the Day 
"With all the crap I learned back in high school, its a wonder I can even think at all." 
Simon and Garfunkel "Kodachrome" 
NO,Bl!T I5HOUW 
HAV/3. THC. 
SYMPTOMS Wtl?eAU. 1Hr;R&... 
That's it. And so far he's twelve points down. What a dynamo. 
George Bush, meanwhile, certainly didn't pick Dan Quayle in order to as­sure him of Indiana. He already had a lock on the Hoosier state. On the other hand, of course he picked him in order to help the Republicans win. Isn't that what every party nominating a national ticket has been doing for at least the last 160 years? At least Bush tried to reach out to a younger generation, while combining youth and experience on the GOP slate. Does that motive compare so poorly with the Democrats' rationale for their choice? I don't think so. 
Ah, but Dan Quayle did not--or could not --lay out a complete program for what he would do if he became presi­dent, you say. But how could he? How can one know what the world and domestic situation will be? Suddenly becoming president is necessarily an ad hoc situation. Just ask Harry Truman. The real question of this cam­paign, however, should be this: why didn't the debate panelists ask this same question of Lloyd Bentsen? And why did their relentless hounding of Quayle cause Cable News Network po­litical analyst Frederick Allen to call them "malicious?" George Bush deserves to win this election. But it sure is tough when he has to fight more than one opponent. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Quayle endures unfair exposure 
Dear Editor: 
Enough is enough. How much longer must Dan Quayle endure the current onslaught of humiliation and ridicule? Quayle has done nothing to justify such a shameful display of negative publicity from both Democrats and the news media itself. 
One would expect political mud­slinging from Sasso and the Dukakis campaign, which had produced com­mercials critical of Quayle before the vice-presidential debate had even begun. 
Among the news media, however, overly negative reporting cannot be tolerated. The American public can hardly be blamed for having doubts about Quayle. Since the day of Quayle's selection in New Orleans, the nation's papers and airwaves have been filled with negative journalism the likes of which have rarely been seen in a na­tional election. He has been hounded relentlessly by members of the media, and nothing Quayle can say or do will satisfy reporters eager to see him fal­ter. 
Members of the press are quick to point out their First Amendment freedoms and the public's right to know. But with freedom comes respon­sibility, and the media must acknowl­edge that their reporting does more than merely inform the public. It helps 
Garry Trudeau 
shape public opinion. The hole dug for Senator Quayle by the Democrats and the news media is deep indeed, but I applaud Quayle for his courage and for­titude in standing his ground. 
Dave Bruner Dillon Hall Oct. 11, 1988 
Sexism promulgates hurtful attitudes 
Dear Editor: 
Have you ever been hurt by insensi­tive jokes directed at you? If you haven't, try to put yourself in that po­sition, and imagine that the jokes are an accepted part of the community in which you live. There's a group of people who experience this here, at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. An of­fensive and demeaning attitude toward women has become an integral part of our community. Insults and harmful comments about women can be found in our campus jokes, t-shirts, comic strips, class discussions, and everyday conversation. 
We ask all members of this commu­nity to make an effort to become more aware of and sensitive to this problem. Count the number of times, in one day, you encounter such offensive or insult­ing comments and attitudes. When you do, have the courage to express your disapproval. This problem hurts all of us--both men and women. Please don't allow it to be incorporated into our com­munity. 
Linda Thimons Women United for Justice & Peace Oct. 11, 1988 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tllle University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial 'Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadene Shi~s Viewpoint Editor ................................. Man Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor .............•......................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
Accent Editor ... ································-····· Beth Healy 
Graphic Arts Manager ....................•.... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 

-
Accent
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 page 11 
Smithereens: doing their own thing well 
KEVIN WALSH lead singer and some original DD: Well, that's not someth material and we put an ad in ing we ever do on purpose.
accent writer 
T 
a music newspaper and that's We don't sit down and say he Smithereens are a how we found Pat (Dinizio, that we'll try to sound like New York based rock 'n' the lead singer, guitarist and the Beatles or something. It's roll outfit who most of you songwriter). Our first gig to­just sort of a combination of have hopefully already heard gether was on March 20, whatever our influences are of. If you haven't, then Wed­1980...so we've been together at the time. You know, we're nesday night is your perfect almost nine years. out on the road, we meet opportunity. They've been 0: How about the name, people, we see movies, see called ''Beatle-esque," "Who· "The Smithereens?" Anyth­bands, just generally hang like" and now they've been ing interesting about where out then we just get up there called by the Observer. We that came from? and play. spoke to Dennis Diken, the DD: Well, I guess it was from 0: What about the rumor that band's drummer and here is the old cartoons. Somebody Pete Townshend was going to some of what he said: was always talking about produce your last album? 
The Observer: Okay, stupi{ blowing somebody else to ... DD: I think we approached 
questions first. .. How did you smithereens! Probably, spe­him but he wasn't available guys get together? cifically Yosemite Sam from at the time. Dennis Diken: Well, Jimmy the old Warner Brothers car­0: What are some of your (Babjak, guitarist) and I toons. (Does Yosemite Sam feelings about the current to owe .something to "Stop ten? Will we hear some new have known each other since imitation) "I'll blow ya to "scene?" I know you've Your Sobbing" by the stuff on Wednesday? I've 

third grade. We started smithereens! ! '' worked with Don Dixon. Pretenders. heard rumors about your 
playing together and then we 0: You guys have been DD: Yeah, Don's a great · DD: Yeah, people tell us shows where you do a short met Mike (Mesaros, bassist) labelled by a lot of critics as producer and a great guy. that.. .I'd say that the Beatles show of your own stuff and in high school. We were basi­revivalists. How do you react Lots of fun. album was probably an inspi­then come back and do a cally a band looking for a to that? 0: Marti Jones? ration, but not the monster show of covers. Is 
DD: She's basically a casual Pretenders. At least not con­that pretty much what we can acquaintance. sciously. expect? 
0: 
Suzanne Vega? 0: So finally, what's next for DD: Well, actually, that's not DD: Pat used to work in the the Smithereens? so true. We do a long set of same office as Suzanne Vega DD: Well, we're touring until our own stuff, then come in New York City, so they've about Halloween, which is back for our encores and do a known each other for a while. actually the eighth anniver­bunch of covers mixed in with 

0: 
I noticed that the song sary of the release of our first our own stuff. We'll play until "Especially For You" wasn't LP (the now-unavailable everybody wants us to stop. on the album Especially For Girls About Town) and I'd So if you like good, high­You, but rather on Green expect us to be going into the energy rock 'n' roll, go Thoughts. Is that an old studio around the beginning and see the Smithereens. You song? of the year. won't regret it. 


DD: No that was written a 0: So is the new stuff writ-few weeks before we recorded Green Thoughts. It was a new one. 
0: I also noticed that "Something New" on Green 
-
Thoughts, was the title of a Beatles' album, and seemed 
Shakespeare's world 
W
ROBYN SIMMONS The group was able to see ning after the drama of assistant accent editor two of Shakespeare's plays -'Richard III'," said Varkey. • "Richard III" and a 1950's The Shakespearean plays illiam Shakespeare once rendition of ''The Taming of were complemented by the wrote that "All the the Shrew." In addition to the English-style Bed and Break­world's a stage." Almost 400 Shakespeare plays, the group fast establishments where the years after Shakespeare saw an elaborate adaptation students and faculty were penned these words, there are of Alexandre Dumas' swash­housed. "(They were) in still some places where buckling novel "The Three groups of 6, 10 or 12 students "I have taken large groups the Stratford weekend were visitors can see the stage of Musketeers" and T.S. Eliot's in Bed and Breakfast in the London program to all from different depart­his world. One place is "Murder in the Cathedral." houses," said Rathburn, "It's Stratford-upon-Avon," said ments in the College of Arts Stratford-upon-Avon, Shake­"The best part of the trip a very nice feeling--you're Rathburn, "I like the town of and Letters. "It's meant to be speare's English birthplace. was being able to see a fellow travelers stopping in at Stratford-upon-Avon in some very interdisciplinary," said Another location is Stratford, theatre show with not only an inn." ways better. Nothing can Rathburn, "In the process Ontario where the plays and excellent actors but filled These houses were part of compare to being on the ac­you get to meet more people spirit of Shakespeare have with an appreciative audience the English flavor of On­tual ground that Shakespeare you norm:~lly wouldn't meet been a tradition for 35 years. that valued the quality of the tario's Stratford. Most of the walked on. There is someth­befort• 1\:! these people Approximately 74 students performances," said sopho­buildings in the town were ing so special about that. blending together and travel­and 20 faculty members more Anita Varkey. built by English builders in <But) Stratford-upon-Avon is ing to another country is al­visited Stratford, Ontario last After the Friday and Satur­the 1860s. "Almost all the oftentimes hideously overrun together quite relative to the weekend in an event spon­day night performances, part houses are brick and built with tourists and from that Year of Cultural Diversity." sored by the Arts and Letters of the group went backstage with a Victorian style," said point of view I like Stratford, "(The trip) has alwaysCollege Fellow Office. This is to meet the actors who had Rathburn, "The connection to Ontario better." been a fantastic experience," -· the second year that the of­just performed onstage. The England is really intense The group of students and said Rathburn, "It's alwaysfice has sponsored this trip, students and faculty had an here." faculty which participated in been a lot of fun." although the Stratford trip opportunity to question the started out several years ago actors about their work. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
on a smaller scale under the "It was really interesting to supervision of Professor Paul see how much they enjoyed Rathburn. it," said Danica Petroshius, 
"I started doing this 10 or ''Then we got to see how 12 years ago with my Shake­what they talked about went speare students," said Rath­into practice." burn, "I found out that a While part of the group was large number of my students with the actors, the rest of had never seen a profes­the group visited a local pub 
­sionally acted live play--where they saw a cabaret 
.,..,,...,.,,.lly not Shakespeare ... performance in an intimate reading a play by Shake­setting. "The Liza Minelli is just not enough--it's look-alike provided amuse­meant to be seen." ment and a lighthearted eve­
-

-
Tile~ Notre Dame office, located on the thln:l floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, acc:epts classified ~Ising from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile ~Saint Mary's office, located on the thln:l floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next~ claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five characters parday. 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1988

NOTICES  DESPERATE! NEED RIDE TO PHILLY/ TRENTON AREA. WILL PAY$$!! NO  HELPI NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 2n-1513  NEED 6 Rice GA's! Will buy pairs. Call SCOTT # 1305  NEED PENN STUD TIX CALL LAURA X2521  JUNIORS TIME IS RUNNING OUT GET YOUR DOGBOOK PICTURES TAKEN  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  RETURN TRIP NEEDED. LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER MIAMI GAME. CALL CHRIS  NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE  I NEED TWO STUDENT TICKETS TO  HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET  BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE DO IT TODAY FROM 7-11 IN BASEMENT OF LAFOR­TUNE  
X3364 OR X3375.  CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223-2440  MIAMI  CALL TIM AT x1615  
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827  NEED RIDE TO INDY HYI4 AFTER 3:30  EXT. 1n2. I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'S-KRIS x2804  ANY PRICE, ANY THING. CALL JOE AT x2212  6 MIAMI TIXS. FOR SALE  I am looking for 4 GA's to any home football game. I have very little money but I would be willing to trade my services  
................................................................ • Matt "Schmeal'' Gallagher for VP  CALL TERESA 1367  TORCH needs two tickets for the Miami game or he will die. Call CHRIS at 3322  I need 2 tix for USC Also 1 Air Force stud for sale Jim 3371  2 GA's, 4 STUDENT CALL 2n-2638  as a photographer in exchange. Any size black and white portraits available. If in· terested call # 3331.  
PROFESSOR NEEDS student to wash  and keep the FLAME alive.  WILL TRADE 2 PSU GA'S plus $$$  
TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books lor ALL classes still available! UN­BEATABLE PRICES!II Pandora's Books, 808 Howard St., just off of NO Ave. 233-2342.  win dows inside&out. $5 hour. 232-0472. GOING HOME TO BAL TIMORE-OC AREA?  NEED 3 TICKETS TOGETHER FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 219­482-8989. WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI-NO  You WANT to sell ME your Miami Tix Will pay BIG $$$$ for 2 Miami GA's Call MONTE at 283-1577  FOR 2 MIAMI (ANY KIND) call FRANK 1534 Need 1 Miami Stud Ticket Will pay GREAT$$  watch for Vision watch for Vision watch for Vision  
MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND FINALE-MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 284-4626  HAVE ROOM IN CAR? ON LUGGAGE RACK? TAKE ME WITH YOU!I!!PLEASE? IF YOU CAN HELP A DESPERATE FEL­LOW DOMER, CALL LAURA 4934 SOON!  GAME. WILL PAY TOP $. CALL 305­981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. 2 MIAMI GAS FOR SALE. CAll 415­769-1248 /BETWEEN 9AM-5PM PACIFIC TIME  I have MONEY for Miami tix. Need 2 GA's or Stdt. Call Amy 3944 I NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL 2281  or mediocre SEX !!! call Liz x3278 NEED 5 AIR FORCE GAs WILL TRADE 2 MIAMI GAs RICH x1662  RIDE NEEDED TO PH ILLY lor break; will pay $ Call Dan 1765 HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR FAVOR­ITE GRANODAUGHTER,"MEME AND  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12.  I'M DESPERATE!!! NEED RIDE BACK TO SCHOOL FROM CINCINNATI ON OCT. 22 OR 23. $$$ CALL JENNY # 2550!!!!  SOMEBODY MUST HAVE 2 PENN STATE GA'S-PLEASE MIKE X1628 I need 8 PENN GA or two sets of 4 Life or Death MEGABUCKS offerred call Tim X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300 Have 2 Miami Stud tix for sale. Still in  MIAMI TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER BY 10 13 88 CALL X4118 SHEILA NEED 2 Miami GAs Will Pay $$$ and/or trade 2 45-yard line Air Force GAs. Call John after 11 pm  AIR FORCE stud for sale call Tim x171~ MIAMI stud for sale. Call x1437 FOR SALE-MIAMI STUDENT TICKET.  BECKY" I'm so proud of you Elizabeth-Anne Crisp, Happy 201h Birthday! Love, Mom  
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237-1949 I LOST/FOUND I LOST: Gold Hoop Earring!! Call 284­5171 if found. PLEASE HELP ME FIND MY EARRING!!!! LOST: BUNCH OF ABOUT 12 KEYS MAYBE NEAR NO POST OFFICE. CALL JULI AT 239-6335. THANKS.  FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­cluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283­3481.  Desperate need ol 2 Penn State GAs. Please call heather at 2n-3268 after 5 p.m. 2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR SALE 272-6863 NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S DESPERATELY CALL ED AT 288-6207 i-~~~;;· 2fi~~~-si:··G;;·-~: ..i..;;~~~..4··:.;:F: GA's. If you are willing to trade, sell, or buy, please call John at 2089. NEED MIAMI GA'S BIG BUCKS!!! CALL MATT AT (219) 484-9080  # 1805 Need 2 Miami Gas Will pay Big $$$ Call John After 11 pm at # 1805 AirForce $11 Pat 1027 THREE MIAMI GA's FOR SALE !!I These tickets are on the 45 yd line Call Mike Bennette at 516-746-51n or call Brian at 272-3405 ( I'll give him your name) . ONE MIAMI GA FOR SALE CALL 3580  CALL 234-9138 AFTER 6. (FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AF STUD.­Leave BEST Offer at 272-1788.) 2 AF GA's for sale call 271-9059 AF Stud 4 sale-$7. 277-5798 Johnny FOR SALE: ONE AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET. CALL 283-4816 SELLING 1 MIAMI GA;X4201 AFTER  RIDERS NEEDED to Houston, Texas Leaving 1CY13; returning 1CJ.23 Call Brian at x3670 or Mike at x2647 NEED 1 MIAMI STUD. CALL MIKE# 2238 I NEED HELP! Anyone have a Tandy 1000 TX Professional Write or Partmastere Manuel, PLEASE call Mar­cey x1339 LOS!! GOLD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER BAND SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN B.P, ZAHM, AND CUSHING. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL AMY X1339  
- FOUND: Man's black watch. Found after GreervScruffy concert. Call Chris at x3670. PLEASE Help! I lost my StMary's Class Ring around Senior Bar or the Commons on 10£. Initials EED (or maybe the name), BA, 83. Call 272-7065 or 289­4935. Thanks! STOLEN: Blue denim jacket from table by back door of North Dining Hall. If you have it, please return it to 100 Stanford Hall or call Chris at x2161. thanx LOSTI! GOLD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP. HAS A MOON AND SUN ON THE FACE. EXTREME SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE...REWARD OF­FERED. PLEASE CALL AMY X1339 LOST: GEOLOGY TEXTBOOK-THE EARTH'S  FOR SALE ONE MIAMI STUD TICKET Best Offer Call Chris 1 052 TELEVIDEO COMPUTER 10 MEG HARD DRIVE 1 FLOPPY DISK DRIVE KEYBOARD & MONITOR EXCELLENT CONDITION CPM 233-1101 FRANK Hotel Room Available for MIAMI Weekend. Call Brendan x3598. Miami Stud Ticket for sale to highest bid­der. Sara x4951 1980 DATSON 310GX COUPE, 5 SPEED CLEAN, GOOD MECHANICAL CONDITION, $995. 272-64n. King size bed, mattress, rails, box springs, bookcase headboard. Complete $100. Call 2n-3014 anytime.  8 AM-5 PM, M-F NEED 3 GA'S FOR PENN STATE!! I Will pay $$$$$.Please call MG at 284 5112. I NEED RICE TIXIII Let's be serious--you don't want to see us play Rice, but my family does. I need 8 tickets for the game. If you can help, please call me at 283-1 069 ask lor The Beeler. HELP ELP HELP HELP Need MIAMI stud tix Bill 2445 NEED 10· Miami Tx. GA or Std. Would like in grps. of 2 if possible. 233-2651. If you have MIAMI or AIR FORCE tix to sell, please call 284-9825 before 5:00 weekdays. WANTED: 3 MIAMI STUDENT TICK­ HAPPY DAYS!! WE HAVE FOUR MIAMI GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 6PM HY14. CALL 283-1181 ASK FOR JOHN OR DON MY UNCLE PHIL AND AUNT MARTINA CANT COME FOR MIAMI, SOWE HAVE TWO GA'S. CALL X1225 AND GIVE BEST OFFER BY THURS 6PM WE HAVE TWO MIAMI GA'S --CALL 1222 AND ASK FOR PAT--BEST OFFER BY THUR THE "FOUR NEAT GUYS" HAVE MIAMI TIX LEAVE BEST OFFER BY 1(}"14 X1712  10PM I HAVE YOUR WIFE AND KIDS. ALSO YOUR MIAMI TICKET!! $$$ # 3691.DAC. I NEED MIAMI STUDENT TIX!!! KRISTEN X1298 YOU WANT THEM! I'VE GOT THEM! I've got two student tickets for the Miami game! Best offer by Thursday. Call 2158 NEED 1 MIAMI TIX WILL PAY$$ &OR TRADE FOR 1 VAN HALEN TIX CALL ANN x4983  0 glorious St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­sor of all who invoke your special patronage 1n time of need, to you I have recourse, and from the depth of my heart I humbly beg to whom God has g1ven such great power to come to my aid. Help me in my present and urgent peti­tion. (Petition). In return I promise to make your name known and to cause you to be 1nvoked. Amen. Say 3 "Our Father'"s. 3 "Hall Mary"'s, and 3 "Gioria"'s. Publi.,Cation must be promised. Thank you, St. ,Jude! ROBOCOP Friday 8:00 and 10:15 p.m., Engineering Auditorium NEED RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS AFTER MIAMI x1999 NICK  
DYNAMIC SYSTEMS 4TH EDITION. I MUST HAVE MY BOOK! A REWARD IS OF­FERED. IF YOU FIND A GEOLOGY BOOK PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1789  ;···--Fioo·M···..;;-y;;·,·LA:iii:E···..;:·.:;t:;i:i:s.t;r NIGHTS AT DAYS INN THIS WKND. CALL DON 3024 .....FOR SALE••••• 1978 IMPALA WAGON  ETS. CALL BRENT AT # 3065. Need 2 AF GA's. My parents sold theirs and then decided they wanted to see the game. Mark 1913 1 AIR FORCE STUD. FOR SALE CALL MATT AT# 3610  I REALLY, REALLY NEED 2 PENN ST. G.A.S. LEE,# 1609 FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI TIX -STUD -­BEST OFFER BY 1(}"13--CALL X2117 YOLANDA  will trade 2PENN ST FOR 2 MIAMI GA CALL 283-2238 2 AFORC TIX 4 SALE SAME ROWSEC  I NEED ONE HOTElMOTEL ROOM FOR SATURDAY, OCT 15. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL SAM AT 239-6696.  
Guess what I found? A gold framed  GC,PW,PS,PB: 00 OR $800  CALL MONICA 2796  
pair of bifocals. If you care to obtain your vision, SEE if you can  CALL 283-3405 •••••FOR SALe•••••  HELP! I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUDENT OR GA. MY FAMILY NEEDS A PLACE  2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE. X1170  THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE  
call Stephanie at 284-4314.  UNITED AIRLINES FLIGHT VOUCHER  IN THE STANDS TO SEE ND BEAT  You don't have to look like Flo  
15 LOST: 1 WHITE RIBBON AT PUR  GOOD ANYWHERE IN US 00 OVER $200 CALL 283-3405  MIAMI. CALL BRIDGET AT 284-5075 NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY TOP$  NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX. CALL JIM AT 2050.  NEED 1 GA MIAMI TICKET. CALL 256-5429.  Joyner  
DUE GAME. ONE OF A KINDI GREAT  # 1913-JOHN  THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE  
SENT !MENTAL VALUE, ANY INFO COULD LEAD TO GREAT REWARDS!! X3201  must sale 1980 datsan some rust Call 232-5762.  Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos­sible. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC­4395.  STUD. TICKS FOR SALE INCLUDING 2 MIAMI TIX. CAll BART AT 234-4422.  2 MIAMI STUD TIX 4 SALE, 232-8327. I have two Miami married student  You don't have to break a sweet THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE  
tickets and one student ticket.  
LOST: BLUE N.D. ID CASE AT THE COMMONS OR IN CORBY'S PARKING LOT THURS, 10£ CALL BRIDGET 289-7616 FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. •······························································· FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BDRM  TICKETS BIG MONEY BIG MONEY I Need 2 GA's for the Air Force Game. Please Call Dan at 3365 or my mom will kill me. I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 WATERFORD BED & BREAKFAST welcomes NOTRE DAME FANS 1854 Brick ltallanate home on Natl<onal  NEED 2 PENN ST. STU TIX! CALL EL­LEN X3706 FOR SALE: AIR FORCE AND RICE STUDENT TIX -X4169 MIAMI STUD TICKET FOR SALE I am a warm weather friend--.60" and higher. Call Brian at x3670 with your sunny forecast. Will trade 4 A. F. GA for 4 MIAMI CALL 283-2238 NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.'S I CALL KENYON-1191  FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET BEST OFFER ACCEPTED x1010 miami ticket to sell or trade x4984 aft 5 Katie "Kareer" needs one ticket to Miami game! Call at 239-5200 until 5:00 or 232-5238 In p.m. Two Miami GA"s for sale! Call Jyt  Best offer. 239-6103 or 277-2574 NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'SIKELLEN284­5089 NEED 4 RICE GA'S TOGETHER OR IN PAIRS. 284-445214453 DIANE. PERSONALS  Three easy steps: 1. reach Into your pocket 2. Pull out your change 3. Stick It to the mile of tape on South Quad, this Friday from 9-5 In front of the Bookstore. BRING YOUR QUARTERS TO OUR MILE! All proceeds to benefit United Way It's Meg's birthday today so stop by Lyons and wish her a good one. Maybe she'll even set you up with a dale (like a brothe..Sister).  
- HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 ROOMS. ARE...AVA.ILABLE ·;;;: . THE "IRISH BED & BREAKFAST" FOR MIAMI & AIR FORCE GAMES. RING 272-7738.  Historic Register. 45 minutes from South Bend 219-533-6044. NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SII! $IS NO PROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 2n­3997.  HELP!!! I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'S... PLEASE, SELL ME YOURS. CALL GUY AT x3883 Need 2 Penn State Tix(prefer stu­dent)Will pay$$! Call Rich at 3317.  8:45-11:00 PM AT 271-0996 F60UITE POSSIBLY THE LASTMIAMI STUD 4 SALEI1 DAY SALE,BID HIGH! F6(PLS LV MESS. & OFFER OR I CAN'T RESPOND.) X3201  N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338. one, two, three, FOUR! Have fun this  The Saint Edwards Hall Players have moved back the meeting lor the announcement of their play lor the 1988-89 season. Anyone who attended our earlier meetlmg or who Is Interested In theater should attend this meeting. The time and date of thIs  
WANTED  FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL MARY AT  Miami Tix needed. Need 2 MIAMI GA's and 1 stud. $$$$ KEN 287-5451 in dire straits-need 3 Air Force GA name  4 AF STUDS 4 SALE X3201  weekend, but don't get too tired ... you have a big week ahead of you, Johnny! Love you, Rachely.  Important event will be given affer we return from October Break. Thanks.  
OVERSEAS JOBS.  l'IEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288·  your price. call Tom at 1596 NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's  F6 (LV MESS & OFFER OR I CANNOT RESPOND)  Scott (St. Ed's) Happy 18th on the 16th Love  WANT TO CATHOLIC  PURCHASE  T  SHIRTS  
Summer,  0968 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT.  x1999 NICK  Mom, Dad, Steve & Ami  S VS CONVICTS CALL 258-0600  
yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Asla.  1 Miami stud tix Sec 28 best offer  
All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtaee­ HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15  By 12 PM Wed 2448  
lng.Free Info. WrHe IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 1 need a ride to the Washington,DC area  Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much ' $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete at 287-5871.  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S, AND 2 MIAMI . STUDS. X1604 CHRISSY  FOR SALE AIRFORCE STUD TICK.  GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAMEtST. MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556  HELP!J Ride needed to Binghampton, Syracuse, Ithaca; will share$$ Please call 3944 and leave message  
for fall break. Will help pay travel ex­ NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS  FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S!I  20$ JIM 1935  
penses. Call X2376. Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT.for only  PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR CARLOS 289-8417  CALL KERRI AT 2156.  DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S  THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY,  NEED MIAMI GA'S. SMC 4349•  
- 90.00 a month,right now or beginning of spring semester.Call 3476.  2 Miami Stud for sale best offer by Thursday call 2036 or 4456  PLEASE CALL SHEILA: 271-9365  OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12.  NO TOASTMASTERS  
Ten Canadian hoaeheads are coming  NO MEETING THIS WEDNESDAY.  
Need ride to1rom NYC. Can leave TH $$$. Call Jose 272-1936.  down lor the MIAMI game, and they're bringing Ice cold Canadian beer and a bunch of funny looking money with  I need PennS!. iixs Stud or Ga Kevin x1024  HELP!! DESPERATELY NEED 1 AF GA. CA~L GEORGE 1595.  HELP!! need a ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. 15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141  NEXT MEETING WEDNESDAY, 1Q.26. 7:30 PM, 223 HH.  
them. They're offering both beer and  
RIDE NEEDED TO DAYTON  cash lor GAs. Good deal, eh?  Have 2 AIR FORCE GAs to sell  I NEEED 2 PENN ST. GA's NOW! I WILL  
I'd like to leave Oct 16, 17 and will pay for gas. Mike # 3200  Call Marty at 1471  Need Miami G.A. Tickets. Big Bucks. Call Joe at 287-4561 after 6p.m.  Call Stacy 1511  PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT x4141.  see CLASSIFIEDS page 9  

-
---------------------------~---~~-~-----------------------------..... 
Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 page 13 
AP Football Poll " Cross Country Poll Men's lnterhall 
Parseghlan League
The Top Twenty college lootboll teomo In The NCAA Men's Cross Country Top 20 
w L T Pet. PF PA
Associated Press poll. w1lh lirst-place votes in paren­
Dillon 3 1 0 .750 48 9theses. th1s season's records and total po1nts. Po1nts 
1. Wisconsin Flenner 2 1 1 .625 20 18
based on 20-1 9-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
2. Arkansas Keenan 2 2 0 .500 23 34 
are italicized. 

3. Datrmouth oc 2 2 0 .500 29 17 Morrissey 1 2 1 .375 6 41
1. M1ami (Fla.) (52) 4-G-0 1,115 4. Northern Arizona 
Grace 1 3 0 .250 24 31
2. UCLA (1) 5-0-0 1,051 5. Notre Dame Leahy League
3. Southern Cal 13) S-0-0 1,012 6. Texas 4 Notre Dame 5-0-0 932 7. Penn State Alumni 3 0 01.000 30 0
5 Flonda State 5-1-0 817 
8. Iowa State Stanford 3 1 0 .750 40 12
6 West V1rgm1a 6-0-0 811 
9. Stanford Holy Cross 1 2 0 .333 14 35
7. Nebraska 5-1-0 747 
10. Nebraska Cavanaugh 0 2 1 .167 6 24B. South Carolina 6·0-0 704 
9. Oklahoma 4-1-0 663 11. Providence Zahm 0 2 1 .167 0 19 
Rockne League
10. Oklahoma State 4-0-0 599 12. Indiana 11. Clemson 4-1-0 564 13. Oregon 
Sorln 2 0 1 .833 26 6
12. Auburn 4-1-0 538 14. Clemson Fisher 1 0 2 .667 13 613 Georgia 5-1-0 452 
15. Tennessee Pangborn 1 1 1 .500 20 24
14 Wyom1ng 6-0-0 323 
16. Bucknell Carroll 2 0 .333 20 41
15. M1chlgan 3-2-0 298 
17. Arizona St. Ed's 3 0 .250 24 27
16. Washington 4-1-0 257 17. Arkansas 5-0-0 239 18. Colorado 18 Indiana 4-0-1 147 19. North Carolina State Today'o Game•19. LSU 3-2-0 130 20. Brown 
Alumni vs. Cavanaugh, 7 p.m.20 Flonda 5-1-0 n (tie) Washington Dillon vs. Flenner, 8 p.m. Pangborn vs. Sorin, 9 p.m.
Others roce1v1ng votes· Alabama 61, Duke 39, 
Carroll vs. Fisher, 10 p.m.
Oregon 38, Washington State 38, Syracuse 26, Penn ·scoreboard 
Thursday's Games
Stale 25. Bngham Young 19, Western Mich1gan 17, 
Football (5·0) Grace vs. Morrissey, 7 p.m.
Ball State 9, Taxas-EI Paso 6, Hawaii 3, Colorado 
Notre Dame 30, Pittsburgh 20 Keenan vs. OC, 8 p.m.
2, Southern MISSISSippi 1. 
Holy Cross vs. Zahm, 9 p.m. all games at Cartier Field
Volleyball (9·5)Playoff Schedule Notre Dame del. Kentucky 15-13, 12-15, 15-9, 16-14
National League 
Women's lnterhall 
Wednesday Men's Soccer (10·1·2) Akron 3, Notre Dame 2 OT 
w L T Pet. PF PA New York a( Los Angeles. 9:08 p.m. Farley 6 0 01.000 64 6 
(Series tied 3·3) Lewis 4 1 0 .800 55 38
Women's Soccer 
PW 3 1 0 .750 38 16 
World Series Notre Dame 3, Calvin 0 Siegfried 3 1 0 .750 35 28 Notre Dame 3, Northwestern 0 Lyons 2 2 0 .500 21 2
Saturday, Oct. 15 
Wheaton 1, Saint Mary's 0 BP 2 2 0 .500 27 2 : at NL champiOn, 7:20 p.m. Sa1nt Mary's 1, Indiana 0 PE 2 3 0 .400 36 3 
Walsh 2 3 0 .400 46 49
Sunday, Oct. 16 
Howard 3 0 .250 34 42
Cross country 
at NL champion. 7:20 p.m. Knotl 4 0 .200 34 57
Men's Badin 6 6
Tuesday, Oct. 18 0 0 000 73 
Notre Dame 4th at Notre Dame Invitational Sunday's Results at AL champion, 7:20p.m. Dan Garret. 2nd (23:52.4) BP 7, Walsh 6 
Farley 12, Lyons 0
Wednesday, Oct. 19 Women's 
Siegfried 8, Badin 0
Notre Dame 6th at Notre Dame Invitational
at AL champion, 7:20p.m. PW 13, Knott 0
Theresa Rtce. 3rd (18:21)
Thursday, Oct. 20 Lewis 16, Howard 8 Wednesday's Games
at AL champion, 7:35 p.m. Tennis 
Siegfried vs. BP. 7 p.m.(if necessary Men's PW vs. PE, 8 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 22 Notre Dame, 11-15 record at Ball State Invi­tational
at NL champion, 4:20p.m. NFL Standings
Paul Odland, 1st in No. 6 singles
(if necessary) 
Wallace and Rister, 1st in No. 2 doubles NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Sunday, Oct. 23 
Women's at NL champion, 7:20 p.m. Saint Mary's 6, Saint Francis 3 (if necessary) Wheaton 6, Saint Mary's 3 

Through Sunday  
PLAYER, POSITION  G·S  SOG  G  A  PTS  GW  
Susie Zilvitis, F  13-13  52  13  5  31  2  
K.T. Sullivan, MF  13-13  31  9  2  20  2  
Mtmt Suba, F  13·13  31  5  7  17  0  
Joy Sisolak. MF  13-13  32  5  3  13  4  
K Blrmtngham. MF  13·1?  11  4  2  10  2  
Michelle Rlchard5, ST  12-12  10  2  0  4  0  
Bernie Holland, F  9-4  18  1  2  4  0  
Al1c1a McNeill, MF  10·1  10  2  0  4  0  
Susan Haling, MF  13-0  7  1  1  3  0  \  
Debbie Ho. F  13-10  9  1  0  2  0  
Julie Constantin!, WB  11·6  4  1  0  2  0  
Teresa Menchaca, F  11·0  5  0  1  1  0  
Chrlsting Gregory, WB  4-0  2  0  1  1  0  
Susan McConville, MF  13·13  6  0  0  0  0  
Molly Lennon, SW  13-13  4  0  0  0  0  
Debbie Skahan, WB  13-4  4  0  0  0  0  
Becky Miller, MF  12·3  4  0  0  0  0  
Kelly Hanratty, WB  9·0  0  0  0  ·0  0  
Julie Wooldrlch, F  8-0  4  0  0  0  0  
Mary Doherty, WB  7-0  2  0  0  0  0  
Amy Bundens, WB  5·0  1  0  0  0  0  
Dana LeCesse, MF  3-0  0  0  0  0  0  
Kelly McCrystal, K  2-0  1  0  0  0  0  
Karna Spencer, K  2·0  0  0  0  0  0  
Christine Illig. F  2·0  1  0  0  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  13  252  44  24  111  10  
OPPONENTS  13  64  11  5  27  3  
KEEPER  G·S  MIN  G  GAA  s  so  RECORD  
7-5  442  3  0.61  13  3  4·1·0  
9·8  708  8  1.01  23  2  6·2·0  
1·0  20  0  0.00  1  0  0-0-0  
13  1170  11  0.85  37  5  10-3-0  
13  1170  44  3.38  99  2  3-10·0  

East w L T Pet. PF PA Phoenix 4 2 0 .667 160 124 
N.Y. Giants 3 3 0 .5o'o 124 142 Philadelphia 3 3 0 .500 152 118 Washington 3 3 0 .500 146 137 Dallas 2 4 0 .333 108 125 Central Chicago 5 1 0 .833 130 67 Minnesota 4 2 0 .667 121 84 Tampa Bay 2 4 0 .333 100 132 Detroit 1 5 0 .167 85 11? Green Bay 1 5 0 .167 109 125 
West LA Rams 5 1 0 .833 178 106 New Orleans 5 1 0 .833 140 112 San Francisco 4 2 0 .667 142 120 Atlanta 5 0 .167 112 167 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA Buffalo 5 1 0 .833 111 105 
N.Y. Jets 3 2 1 .600 124 79 Miami 3 3 0 .500 98 96 New England 2 4 0 .333 78 148 Indianapolis 5 0 .167 99 125 Central Cincinnati 6 0 01.000 171 107 Houston 4 2 0 .667 119 138 Cleveland 3 3 0 .500 82 92 Pittsburgh 1 5 0 .167 116 158 
West Seatlle 4 2 0 .667 112 109 Denver 3 3 0 .500 116 87 LA Raiders 2 4 0 .333 141 169 San Diego 2 4 0 .333 74 122 Kansas City 1 1 .250 79 98 
Sunday's Results Chicago 24, Detroit 7 Buffalo 34, Indianapolis 23 Houston 7, Kansas City 6 Los Angeles Rams 33, Atlanta 0 Green Bay 45, New England 3 Cincinnati 36, New Vorl< Jets 19 Seattle 16, Cleveland 10 Minnesota 14, Tampa Bay 13 Washington 35, Dallas 17 Phoenix 31, Pittsburgh 14 Denver 16, San Francisco 13 OT Miami 24, Los Angeles Raiders 14 New Orleans 23, San Diego 17 
Monday's Reoult Philadelphia 24, New Vorl< Giants 13 
_ Sports Lists 

ALL GAMES AT ND:  ND leads 6-1  
GAMES AT ND STADIUM:  ND leads 6-1  
LOU HOLTZ vs. MIAMI:  0-2 (0-0 at ND)  
ALL GAMES AT MIAMI:  ND leads 6-5-1  
GAMES AT ORANGE BOWL:  ND leads 6-5-1  
JIMMY JOHNSON vs. ND:  3-0 (1-0 at ND)  
LASTNDWIN:  16-14 at ND in 1982  
LAST MIAMI WIN:  24-0 in 1987 at Miami  
CURRENT SERIES STREAK:  4 by Miami  
LONGEST ND STREAK:  11 (1967-1980)  
LONGEST MIAMI STREAK:  4 (1983-85; 1987)  

Source: Notre Dame Football Guide Observer Graphic/Geoff Sauer and Marga Bruns 
) Spirit Week Events 
THURSDAY 
3:00 p.m.--"CBS sports on Campus," Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
7:00 p.m.--Baseball vs. Miami, Coveleski Stadium ($3 adults, $2 children) 
7:30 p.m.--Men's soccer vs. DePaul, Moose Krause Stadium 
FRIDAY 
4:00 p.m.--All-campus picnic, Stepan Center fields 
7:00 p.m.--Notre Dame football pep rally, Stepan Courts Special guest--Olympic Speed Skater Dan Jansen 
8:00 p.m.--United Limo service from Stepan Courts to Coveleski Stadium 
8:30 p.m.--Baseball vs. Miami, Coveleski Stadium ($3 adults, $2 children) 
9:00 p.m.-11 :30 p.m.--Dance featuring 'The Groove,' Joyce ACC Fieldhouse 
11 :50 p.m.--"Notre Dame Basketball's Greatest Hits" video, Joyce ACC Arena 
11:55 p.m.--Introduction of 1988-89 Notre Dame men's and women's basketball teams. 12 midnight--~(;IIIIHilage by Notre Dame men's basketball team free posters gtven out by Coca-Cola) 
Halftime--Presentation of Maxwell House Spirit of Notre Dame Awards to one past and one current ND athlete 
Saturday Game Day 
10:30 a.m.--Notre Dame women's basketball scrimmage, Joyce ACC Arena 
1:30 p.m.--football: Notre Dame vs. Miami, Stadium TBA--Women's Soccer vs. Bowling Green, Krause Stadium 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 10:30 a.m. at the Joyce ACC Women's soccer vs. BOWLING Wednesday 
GREEN TBA at Krause Stadium
No sports scheduled 
Men's tennis at Volvo All-American 
Thursday October Break 
Men's soccer vs. DEPAUL Football: Oct. 22 vs. AIR FORCE.
7:30 p.m. at Krause Stadium Men's soccer: Oct. 16 at College of Baseball vs. MIAMI, 7 p.m. 
Charleston, Oct 22 at Rutgers.
at Coveleski Stadium Women's soccer: Oct. 23 at Bowling Women's soccer at SAINT MARY'S 
Green.
3:30 p.m. at Angela Field 
Volleyball: Oct. 18 at Pacific, Oct. 19 at San Jose State, Oct. 21 at Min­
Friday 
nesota, Oct. 22 at Iowa. Baseball vs. MIAMI, 8:30 p.m. 
Hockey: Oct. 18 at Western Mic­at Coveleski Stadium 
higan, Oct. 21-22 at St. Cloud State. Men's basketball INTRASQUAD 
Men's Cross Country: Oct. 22 at SCRIMMAGE 
Southern Cal. midnight at the Joyce ACC 
Women's Cross Country: Oct. at Southern Cal. 
Saturday Men's Tennis: Oct 15-23 at Volvo Football vs. MIAMI, 1:30 p.m. All-American in Athens, Ga. Women's basketball INTRASQUAD Women's Tennis: Oct 21-23 at SCRIMMAGE MCC Tournament in St. Louis. 

-

~-----~-~~-------~--­
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI 
page 14 Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
Trading cards to be distributed Saturday 
Special to The Observer 
Sixty thousand Notre Dame sports cards promoting fire prevention will be distributed Saturday as fans enter Notre Dame Stadium for the Notre Dame-Miami football game. 
A different one of the 15 full­color cards in the set will be handed out at each Notre Dame Stadium gate as spectators en­ter Saturday. 
Also, 10,000 full sets will be available beginning next week at area fire departments. 
The cards, printed courtesy of the United States Forest Ser­vice, feature Irish football co­ach Lou Holtz; players Andy Heck, Ricky Watters, Mark Green, Ned Bolcar, Wes Pritchett, George Streeter, An­thony Johnson, Tom Gorman and Braxston Banks; plus home schedules for volleyball, women's basketball, baseball, soccer and hockey. 
Howell, Cone wrote in a first­person article for the New York Daily News that Howell looked like a "high school pitcher" and Hershiser was "lucky" to throw eight shutout innings. 
The Dodgers, inspired by Cone's prose, chased him after two innings of Game 2, scoring five runs on five hits en route to a 6-3 victory. It was Cone's shortest outing as a starter this year, and his career as a col­umnist lasted only one more day. 
Cone then came back and got the last three outs of the Mets' 8-4 victory in Game 3 on Satur­day but still wanted a chance to prove his 20-3 season was not a fluke. 
Mter a shaky first inning,
-
Cone shut the Dodgers out on one hit until two were out in the fifth when reliever Brian Hol­ton singled, Steve Sax walked and Mickey Ha~cher singled in a run to make it .;.-1. Holton was 



ninth off Hershiser and Jay while during the regular season in 12 innings. 
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs Princeton University 
Graduate Education for Careers in Public Affairs 
International Relations Development Studies Domestic Policy Economics and Public Policy 
Presentation and question-and-answer session will be held with a Woodrow Wilson School representative. 
Date:  T-mrsday,  October 13,  D83  
Time:  D :)0  a.m.  and  LOO  ?.m.  
Place:  see  Career Placement  Jffice  

.--................... -........ ., ...... ~ ................ -.. -... -..... -·• . ~-..... --·--.. ·····-· ... ·-----····· ··-·
~ .......... ... ---' ~--------------------·-­
~ 


NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 page 15 

Miami linebacker rebounds from knee injury 
~ 4f---~· ~' ·~-_·· ~~~~~~F~E~artei:;~~~~~~~gJ~~ 
_-; .,_.,. total tackles against Wisconsin 
The bad news for Miami out-and eight versus Missouri. side linebacker Rod Carter was Miami won those two contests that anthroscopic knee surgery by a combined score of 79-3. forced him to miss the first two "When I first got back in the Hurricane games against Wisconsin game, it was still Florida State and Michigan. bothering me," Carter said. 
Now the bad news for Notre "The next game against Mis­Dame is that Carter is back and souri, I felt fine." playing in the form that made The Hurricanes didn't play
f _--him a pre-season candidate for badly when Carter was injured, the Butkus Award honoring the but they do play better when nation's most talented he is healthy. Carter has linebacker. started 24 games for the Bur-
Missing the first two games, ricanes, and they have won 23 two of the biggest contests of of those contests, including two the year, was especially hard victories over Notre Dame. for Carter. Instead of being the Carter and defensive end Bill vital clog on a stingy Miami Hawkins will be the only Bur­defense, the fifth-year senior ricane defenders starting their could only watch and hope. third game against the Irish. 
"It was very hard just to sit Miami downed Notre Dame by back and watch my team-scores of 58-7 in 1985 and 24-0 ~-..,; mates, wishing I could help," in 1987 in those games, both at 
Photo courtesy Miami Sports Information Carter said. "But we have so the Orange Bowl. In 1987, Rob Carter (91 ), Miami's Butkus Award 
which kept him out of the first two games of much depth we're not going to Carter recorded nine total candidate, has recovered from the knee Injury the season. play badly." tackles. 
"It means a lot to play Notre Dame because of all of the na­tional championships they've, won in the past," Carter said. "We're just concentrating on Notre Dame, what they're doing, and taking it one day at a time. They're big in the skills positions. We're expecting those guys to handle the ball and make the plays." 
In 1987, Carter excelled on the Miami defense, while playing in the shadow of All­Americans Bennie Blades and Daniel Stubbs. He led the Hur­ricanes in assisted tackles with 80, a new Miami record, and earned honorable mention as an AP All-American. His top performance was 19 total tackles, 13 unassisted, in a 41-3 romp over East Carolina. 
At the same time, the total defensive effort of the Hur­ricanes has dominated oppos­ing foes. Last year, the defense held opponents to 111 points, while the offense scored 392. 1988 Miami foes have scored just 33 points in four games and only three points came when Carter was playing. 
"I think we're faster this year," Carter said. "We get to the ball better than we did the last three years." 
Before his injury, Carter had gained 12 pounds and planned to switch to middle linebacker. His speed is also somewhat surprising. The 6-1, 230-pound Carter runs the 40 in 4.8 
Carter was redshirted his freshman year after a success­ful high school career in Fort Lauderdale, the same area that turned out first-round draft choices Lorenzo White, Mi­chael Irvin and Bennie Blades. He worked with the scout team as a linebacker and then battled George Mira for the starting spot in 1985. 
"I think everyone should be redshirted," Carter said. "When you get here, you're lost. The older guys talked to
EXCLUSIVE;~. spencer~ me and I appreciated it. You get to learn the system so that next year, you have the feel for it. It also helps with the books." 
AMERICA'S HALLOWEEN HEADQUARTERS 
And Carter has not forgotten 
Concord Mall Scottsdale Mall 
(219) 875-8032 (219) 291-4563 about hitting the books with as The Orchards University Park much vigor as he hits opposing 
(616) 925-8420 (219) 272-5705 players. Majoring in art, he hopes to be a cartoonist and
VISA • MASTERCARD· DISCOVER 
later own a studio. 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
All in the Corrigan family 
New Irish coach keeps lacrosse connection going 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
For new Notre Dame 
lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan, 
the "fastest game on two feet" 
runs in his family. 
Corrigan, the fourth of seven children, grew up with lacrosse under the example of his father and former Notre Dame Ath­letic Director Gene Corrigan and two uncles. These three brothers then passed the love for lacrosse on to their sons, who have branched out into prominent playing and coach­ing positions in the East and Midwest. And according to Kevin, he still consults his fa­ther and uncles for coaching advice. 
"There's a million things I've learned from my father, the biggest of which is how to deal properly with people," says Corrigan, a 29 year old native of Charlottesville, Va. "I still call him and ask him things and, even though the game has changed, the fundamentals are the same." 
There is also a significant Notre Dame connection among the Gene Corrigan clan. The elder Corrigan, after coaching and administrative stints at Virginia and the Atlantic Coast Conference, became the ath­letic director at Notre Dame in 1981 before returning to the ACC in 1987. Contrary to popular belief, Corrigan did not push for Irish lacrosse to be­come a varsity sport; instead, outgoing athletic director Ed­ward "Moose" Krause and Fa­ther William Joyce made the 
decision several months before Corrigan arrived. 
Nonetheless, the elder Cor­rigan did see his sons take turns among the Irish playing and coaching ranks. Kevin Cor­rigan began the Notre Dame connection as an assistant co­ach in 1983. His brother Tim then played for the Irish from 1984-86, with two more brot­hers, Bryan and David, holding assistant coaching duties through 1986. 
"And now I'm the head coa­ch, so there's definitely an Irish connection in my family," says Corrigan. 
A rich family tradition aside, Corrigan realizes the Notre Dame lacrosse team still needs improvements in areas such as recruiting and scheduling if they are to match the success he experienced at Virginia. 
Corrigan played four years for the highly touted Cavaliers before returning to Virginia as an assistant, where he coached for the last two seasons. In those six years at Virginia, Cor­rigan played on a national runner-up squad and helped co­ach another team to the final four. 
Corrigan is replacing Rich O'Leary, the only coach Notre Dame has ever had. O'Leary resigned to devote full time to his position as assistant direc­tor of non-varsity athletics. 
As only the second coach in 25 years, Corrigan says he in­tends to use much of what he has learned from his father and from his eight years in coach­ing to move the Irish lacrosse 
program into national 
prominence. 
In eight years as a spring 
varsity sport, the Irish have 
won or shared the Great Lakes 
Lacrosse Association title 
three times and just missed 
capturing the NCAA Western 
bid the last two years. 
To insure the team is ready 
by springtime, Corrigan has 
been running 10 hours of prac­
ticing and lifting per week. The 
Irish also will experience 
lacrosse at the highest level 
when they host perennial 
power Johns Hopkins on Octo­
ber 28. 
"We have been more intense this fall than most of the guys are used to," says Corrigan, "but it will get more intense yet. It's important for me to set the tone early on--every day we go out we want to end up better than the day before and you can't do that without a certain intensity and mental concen­tration." 
According to senior tri­captains Kevin O'Connor and Doug Spencer, Corrigan's background and attitude are having a significant effect on the team. 
"He (Corrigan) has a defi­nite aura of excitement about him such that the players have to show more of a respect and desire to be on the team," Spen­cer says. "He's used to top­notch lacrosse and he wouldn't be happy if anything fell short of that." 
O'Connor added that Cor­rigan's famil~· experience fur­ther helps the Irish. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Century Club deadline for pledges is Oct. 14. The Century Club is an NVA-sponsored self-discipline ex­ercise program where a participant acn choose to walk, run, swim, etc., and pledge for the distance. At the com­pletion of semester, upon achieving the pledged distance, the Centurion is awarded a special T-shirt. -The Observer 
The Rolfs Aquatic Center will reopen at 8 a.m. today. Open hours will be 8 a.m. till 4 p.m., and 6:30p.m. till10:30 p.m. today and Thursday. -The Observer 
Transportation is available to and from Friday night's Notre Dame-Miami baseball game at Stanley Coveleski Stadium. Three buses will leave from the pep rally (after its conclusion) to the stadium and will return to the Joyce ACC afterward. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
The Indianapolis Colts signed quarterback Bob Gagliano on Tuesday. In three games with the 49ers last year, the sixth-year pro out of utah State completed 16 of 29 passes for 229 yards. The 6-foot-3, 195-pounder becomes the Colts No.3 quarterback behind rookie Chris Chandler, who is expected to start Sunday against Tampa Bay after being injured last week at Buffalo, and veteran Gary Hogeboom. Former starter Jack Trudeau underwent knee surgery on Monday and is out for the remainder of the season. -Associated Press 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame started the scoring early, when just eight minutes into the game Joy Sisolak connected on a pass from Susie Zilvitis to put the Irish ahead 1-0. 
The rest of the first half passed uneventfully, as the Irish continued to attack and continued to be frustrated, more a result of coordination problems than anything else. The final statistics show that the Irish had 12 corner kicks in the game, to Northwestern's 2, but they will have to start con­verting these opportunities into goals if they are to be of any practical use. 
"Corner kicks are obviously a big part of the offense," said Grace. "They are an important indication of our capabilities." 
The second half began with Sue McConville's long high shot over the fingertips of the Northwestern keeper that raised the score to 2~. The junior midfielder's score, at 51:49, was her first of the season. 
Twenty minutes later K.T. Sullivan, all alone in front of an open net, headed in a loose ball for her tenth goal of the season and the final goal of the game, putting the Irish ahead 3-0. 
A frenzied Northwestern at­tack in the last fifteen minutes threatened the shutout, shared by Notre Dame keepers Karna Spencer and Kelly McCrystal, but proved fruitless. Grace, however, was not impressed with the overall defensive play of his team. 
"Our defensive marking is just not what it should be," he said. 
The Irish cross the highway Thursday at 3:30 to take on Saint Mary's in a rematch of the recent 4-2 Notre Dame win. 
"It's a big game," said McCrystal. "We've been think­ing about it, but we had to get through Calvin and Northwes­tern first." 
Grace feels confident about the game. He remained cau­
gays and lesbians at notre dame/st. mary's college 
presents 
LARRY BAKER 
speaking on 
THE CONDITION OF THE BLACK GAY MAN IN AMERICAN SOCIETY 
thursday, october 13th, at 7:30pm the first unitarian church 101 e. north shore drive (at michigan) south bend. indiana 
glnd/smc p.o. box 194 notre dame, In 46556 
tious, however, remembering that the Belles led the Irish 2-0 for the first two-thirds of the first game. 
::=-;... 
• Visiting Scholar Series 
AT&T COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETIERS 
Concentration in Gender Studies Series 
New Directions in Gender Studies 
Monday, Oct. 24, 1988 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
John D'Emilio 
Department of History, Univ. ofNorth Carolina at Greensboro 
Estelle Freedman 
Department of History, Stanford University 
Intimate Matters: a History of Sexuality in the United States 
co-sponsored by the Department ofHistory Reception follows in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
The AT&T Visiting Scholars Series is made possible by a grantfrom the AT&TFoundation, and organized by the College ofArts and Letters, University ofNotre Dame. 
•
' 
NOTRE DAME TENNIS 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 page 17 
Women confident at tourney 
By CHRIS COONEY Barton, Kristy Doran, Ann returns to the No. 1 singles spot Sports Writer Bradshaw and Tyler Musleh all for the Irish. Sophomores Kim are among the top seven Pacella and Cathy Bradshaw 
The Notre Dame women's singles players on the Irish and senior Natalie Illig com­tennis team travels to St. Louis, team. Clark and Barton were plete the roster. Mo., Oct. 21-23 to participate in ranked among the top 40 in this The team has been practic­the Midwestern Collegiate Con­fall's USTA 18 and under Junior ing for an average of 2 1-2 hours ference Tournament. girls standings. The other Irish a day in preparation for the up­
Coach Michele Gelfman is freshmen all achieved high coming meet. In addition, the very confident in her team's rankings within their own women lift weights three days chances in the meet. home regions. a week and most of them run 
"We should probably win," Gelfman does not think inex­five to six times a week. Gelfman said. "The competi­perience will hinder the suc­Notre Dame will be without tion is not nearly as strong as cess of this year's Notre Dame junior captain Alice Lohrer our previous competition this squad. who is out for the semester with fall." "All the girls are experi­back problems. Cahill is also 
The Irish are much improved enced tournament players," recovering from a knee injury; this year, largely due to the she said. "Our exceptional however, Gelfman says that presence of a talented group of youth should not hurt us at all." she is hitting well and back to freshmen. Katie Clark, Tracy Sophomore Ce Ce Cahill full strength. 
Men face 'cream of crop' at Volvo All-American 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer  in the Top 50 in the United States. Players from 80 teams will participate in this pres­ healed nicely, except for W al­ter Dolhare, the No. 3 singles player, who will not make the  match." DiLucia will enter the tourn­ament in the main qualifying  sists that these two are capable of playing at this level. "They are better than their  
This weekend,  members of  tigous event.  trip because of an ankle prob­ draw. He is  one  of only two  record has shown," professed  
the Notre Dame men's tennis  The tournament begins with  lem.  freshman in the country that  Bayliss.  "They  are  close  to  
team will face the cream of the  pre-qualifying matches on Sat­ Notre  Dame  will  send  six  was ranked in the nationally se­ being the best in their flights.  
crop in the Volvo All-American  urday  with  a  group  of  128 players  to  the  competition.  lected 56, the other being Todd  They  are  just one  win away  
Collegiate Tennis Tournament.  players,  each  selected  by  a  Dave DiLucia, the No. 1 singles  Martin of Northwestern.  from turning things around."  
The Irish will fly south to At­ panel of tennis coaches includ­ player,  suffered  a  bruised  The other members of the  Paul  Odland,  the  No.  6  
hens, Georgia, home of Univer­ ing Bayliss. Out of these 128  shoulder but will be ready to  Irish squad will enter the tourn­ player,  has  been  a  pleasant  
sitty of Georgia and the last ten  players,  eight  will  join  a  play this weekend.  ament  in  the  pre-qualifying  surprise, to say the least, boast­ 
NCAA Championships, to par­ nationally-selected 56 players  "Dave is looking to make his  stage. Brian Kalbas, the No. 2  ing a 5-1 season record.  
ticipate in the premier fall col­ in the main qualifying draw to  mark," said Bayliss. "In this  player, received a first round  
legiate tennis tournament.  compete on Tuesday and Wed­ tough event. He will find out in  bye.  Mike  Wallace,  Ryan  "Odland has gone from a guy  
"It is simply the best players in collegiate tennis," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "It is the  nesday. From that group, four players will go on to battle the top 28 players in college tennis.  a hurry where he stands." So far this season, DiLucia's play has been sporadic as indi­ Wenger, Dave Reiter and Paul Odland will start from the beg­ginning. In order to be among  was going to fill the bottom of the lineup to a player who is going to challenge the middle  
only event of its kind."  The main draw will produce the  cated by his overall record of  those eight who will advance,  of  the lineup,"  said  Bayliss.  
Among those standouts  are  winner of the tournament.  3-3.  these players will have to win  "Odland has raised his game  
Andrew  Sznajder  of  Pepper­ Recently,  Notre Dame has  "He has had trouble putting  four consecutive matchess.  to a higher level."  
dine, Buff Farrow and Brian  been plagued by a rash of in­ people away,"  said  Bayliss.  As of late, Wenger 0-5) and  
Garrow  of  UCLA  and  Jeff  juries affecting almost the en­ "He'll get a lead and then let  Reiter  (0-5)  have  not  been  "It is an honor in itself just  
Tarango of Stanford. all ranked  tire team. But the Irish have  people  creep  back  into  the  playing well. Yet, Bayliss in­ to get in," said Bayliss.  

·~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.~~~~~~~~-.~~ 
BET A ALPHA PSI and COOPERS & L VB RAND 
in support of 
"The Year of Cultural Diversity" 
present Miguel "Mike" Valdes, Partner-International Tax speaking on 
"AN INTERNATIONAL PERSPECTIVE ON A CAREER IN PUBLIC ACCOUNTING" 
Date: October 13, 1988 Time: 4:30 PM ­Place: Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Room 122 
-
.... 
-··--------------------------------------' 


NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 1988·89 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988
page 18 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
last year. During last year's games, every guy on the team went out on the ice expecting to win. That can't change just because the teams we play are of a higher caliber." 
In fact, Schafer believes that his team, featuring scholarship players for the first time in five years, actually may have more talent than last year's squad. 
"I think overall we'll be a better hockey team. If there's an index for hockey players, we've gone up a notch or two," said Schafer. "We don't have any (1988 grad) Mike McNeills on our team that could steal the show, but overall we'll be strong." 
Following is a position-by­position outlook of the 1988-89 Notre Dame hockey team: 
Forwards 
The Irish lose McNeill, the leading Irish scorer for the last three years, and Tom Mooney from last year's team. Step­ping up to the first line this season are Irish co-captain and center Brian Montgomery, Hanzel and right wing Tim Kuehl. Those three players comprised the Irish second line last season. 
"We've played so much to­
gether that we seem to know 
where the other two are on the 
ice at all times," said Hanzel. 
"I would expect our line, espe­
cially Kuehl, to do the majority 
of the scoring now that McNeill 
and Mooney are gone." 
Mike Curry, a freshman from Rochester, Minn., has found a spot on the second line, quickly assuming the left wing slot alongside senior center Bob Bilton and senior right wing Bob Herber. 
"He (Curry) fits into our line 
just great," said Herber, 
"because Bilton and I are both 
reasonably quick. Curry is 
probably one of the fastest 
players on the team after only 
two weeks. Although it's taken 
us a while to gel, I'm sure we'll 
be a good line both even-handed 
and on the power play." 
Junior Bruce Guay, who was 
second on the team in scoring 
at midseason last year before 
being sidelined with an injury, 
is the left wing on the third line. 
A pair of freshmen--center 
David Bankoske and right wing 
Mark McCl~w--c?mprise the
rest of the third hne. Center Rob Bankoske, left 
~~~~~~~g~~~aa~~t~~1n~;~~~
ice time with left wing Chns 
Olson, center Pat Arendt and right wing Mike Musty. One of 
those trios will make up the fourth line. 
Defensemen 
The Irish lose starters Pat Foley and Lance Patten to 
defenseman," said Schafer. "Markovitz shows flashes of brilliance. He's an exceptional stickhandler.'' 
A physical pair of players backs them up in senior Tim Caddo and junior Bruce Haikola. Irish co-captain and left wing Matt Hanzel, "but we've still got to go into every game with the same confidence we had 
"The important thing about both these guys is they don't hesitate for a moment to use their bodies," said Schafer. "They play with reckless aban­don, and because of that, they're effective." 
Freshman Kevin Patrick and senior Roy Bemiss, who played forward last season, make up the third line of defensemen. 
Goalies 
This portion of the team presents both Notre Dame's biggest strength and weakness. 
The Irish have Lance Mad­son returning from an excep­tional 1987-88 campaign, but once again, it appears as though the junior from Min­netonka, Minn., will be man­ning the nets for virtually every game of the season. 
Madson won the approval of his teammates last year after recording a 3.44 goals against average and an .882 save percentage. 
"We love Lance in net be­cause he's just so consistent," said Hanzel. "He refuses to let the bad goal in." 
Herber echoes the sentiment. 
"We've just got to have him," said Herber. "He knows he's got to be sweet in goal. If he's down, the team's down be­cause we're not going to be win­ning many 8-7 shootouts this year. He's got plenty of confi­dence, and he seems to thrive on pressure. He'll have plenty 

-
of it this year." 
Senior Mark O'Sullivan and sophomores Steve Hurd and Dave Kolata will back up Mad­son at goal. 
"Lance Madson's picked up right where he left off last season, and that is as an out­standing goaltender," said Schafer. "He'll receive the bulk of our playing time. I think it will probably have to be Lance Madson just about every game." 
Organist 
Schafer also has one more new player that he is only too enthusiastic to mention. 
"We've probably recruited one of the best organists you can ask for in Mike Callahan," said Schafer, an accomplished pianist himself. "I went out and bought a new keyboard that's fantastic. It can make a one­finger pianist sound good. This guy's a 10-finger keyboard art­ist, and we're pleased to have him." 

The Observer I Rob Regovich 
Both the players and coaches Lance Madson will once again be the man in the nets for Irish are confident that the Irish also hockey team this season. can be making sweet music on the ice. 
"We know we can play hockey with the big boys," said 
IllALUMNI-;===~
SENIOR a
Hanzel. "I know I speak for the rest of the team when I say we're ready to get our feet wet and see just how good we can 
~CLUB
be. We've got a great opportu­
nity this year." 
Added Schafer, "I'm certain we've taken Notre Dame hockey a step further. I think that we have in store a couple of major upsets this year." 
COifECROttTilE80ROER UIITIItft. ... 
~~\ 
G~~ 
MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI 
FIRE UP AT TBE CLUB 
9:00 • 2:00 AM 

graduation, butplentyofexpe-~ r. np 0 e a amas sen -o 
Qt.() 
rience does return. "-X'IS> Juniors Mike Leherr and "-With ~ 
~~~i~~:!ek;s~i~e~~llbethetop ": The Famous Vacationers ~ 
(Chicago Reggae Band) 
-
~ 
~ 
Thursday, Oct. 13 from 9pm -2am at ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
~ 
-

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ Q0 ~ X'IS> 
~ THE SENIOR CLASS AND THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ~ 
~ ~ 
iS SpOnSOring ~ 
00 
~ 
;?& 
~ ~ 
S T • t th B h d ff ~ ~ 

-----------~------------~------~ -----~------~-~-~~-----­
Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Pax Christi meeting about the political situation in Chile at the Center for Social Concerns. 
7:30 p.m. Michael Novak, Welch Chair of American Studies and the Director of Social and Political Studies at the American Enterprise Institute will hold the second of three lectures on Choosing Our King, 1988: Monthly Election Watch, in the Center for Continuing Education. 
8 p.m. PresentatiorvReception for all Finance, Accoun­tancy and Economics majors interested in discovering career opportunities with Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. at the Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
8 p.m. PresentatiorvReception for MBA students only who are interested in career opportunities with General Mills Restaurants in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
10-11 p.m. WVFI-AM 640 will have a discussion of Am­nesty International. 
DINNER iviENUS 


Notre Dame 
Devonshire Sandwich BBQ Pork Chops Pasta Bar Beef Turnover 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Braised Thin Steak French Bread Pizza Florentine Omelette Deli Bar 
Buzz McFiatop 
I J lilr.e t" welcome all of the \1tamt fuotllall player~ 111 a tour of Notre Dames campu~ 
Th1s 1s the library 
Yes. all the way up 
No way! 
There are lloolr.s in • there? 
The Observer page 19 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Remain 51 He created 
27 Understood Perry and 1 Jean de 29 Behind the Della
Brunhoff 
scenes 52 Mule of folk creation 33 Golfer Lee song
6 Brow wiper's 36 Woody's son 
sigh 54 Okinawa 
37 Phillips 
10 Thespian seaport
University is 
cutup 58 Some sleeves 
here
l3 Miss Scarlett end here 
38 Actress 
14 Buenos-61 Hung
Zadora
16 Famed ring 63 State further 
39 Supermarket 
name 64 Hobo
clerks, often 17 Buffoon 
66 o.s.s.
19"0uiou-?" 42 Genes 
successor20 Sugar-cane material 67 Swagger leftovers 43 Rascals 
68Sierra­
21 Polyurethane 45 Stalemate 69 King beater, infiber 46 Vast chasm, to pinochle23 Delightful the Bard 70 Rival of Nadiaplace 48 Hooded cloak 71 Organic24 Set of 50 Eureka compounddoctrines Springs, e.~. 
DOWN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1 Frozen dessert 

2 Winning 3 Sight on the 
Chesapeake 4 Plan 5 Light lines 6 Declines 7 Concealed 8 Is mistaken 9 -joy (is 
ecstatic) 10 Novel by 
Samuel Lover 11 Spiny plant 12 Saucy young 
woman 15 Emulates Ruth 18-were (so 
to speak) 
Berke Breathed 
Michael F. Muldoon 
DISCLAIMER: I do not wish to imply that rht U. of Miami is too euy. Ill leave that up to you to decide. 
r· 
.. 
22 Tiny Archibald of N.B.A. fame 25 Some saddle horses 
28 Sphere 
30 Went like the wind 
31 "And Phoebus -arise": Shak. 
32 Dutch export 33 Grandiose 34 City in Ohio 
The Far Side 
35 Foppish clotheshorse 36 Fields, to Agrippina 40 Support strongly 41 Tree's life blood 44 "Betcha boots!" 47 Bracelet's 
charms 
49 Chelae 
50 Picnic dish, for short 
53 Innermost shrines 55 Portion out 
56 German poet-essayist 
57"Do,-..." 
58 Bit of truth 
59 Comic-strip canine 
60 Crumbly soil 
62 Khartoum's river 
65 Spot for a snug bug 
Ga Larson 


Sports 
Wednesday, October 12, 1988
gage 20. 
Irish need great play, not green jerseys 
By MARTY STRASEN is all about. think they're defense is what At the other guard position, "Notre Dame has had a his­makes them a great team. sophomore Winston Sandri is
Sports Editor 
tory of beating No. 1 teams, a 
"I see people saying we don't expected to start for sopho­Irish head coach Lou Holtz history of doing the impossible, have a chance, and looking at more Tim Ryan, who suffered said he is not breaking out the a history of coming up with the the two teams, I might be in­a shoulder injury in the 30-20 
green jerseys for this Satur­unexpected performance by a clined to agree with them, ex­victory over the Panthers. day's showdown against No. 1 player you never dreamed of, cept for one thing--on a given Sandri started the Michigan Miami. a history of making critical Saturday, that's this Saturday, gatne before Ryan was moved But the third-year coach of plays at critical times. That's we do have a chance. We can from center to guard, and Holtz the fourth-ranked Irish knows what we're going to need, and win this football game. The rea­said there is a slight chance how important one football Notre Dame history is on our son I think we have a chance Ryan could be ready to play if 
game can be, although Holtz in­side." is because Miami is going to needed. sists that the battle of un­But the Hurricanes will be on see a great bunch of competi­EXTRA POINTS: Holtz ex­beatens is nothing more than a the other side Saturday after­tors on Saturday." pressed confidence in both his game. noon, and Holtz said he thinks One person the Hurricanes players and the Notre Dame 
"Keep in mind that it's just Miami has proven its billing as are unlikely to see is Irish student body that Saturday's 
a football game," Holtz said the best team in college football Lou Holtz junior offensive guard Tim game will not turn into some­Tuesday at his weekly press by amassing a 36-game Grunhard. Grunhard tore thing ugly. conference. "But it's a game regular-season winning streak, undoubtedly the best football ankle ligament against Pitt this "I don't think 'hate' is a you'll remember for the rest of including 20 straight on the team in the country," Holtz past Saturday and is listed as proper thing," said Holtz, who your life, and a game you have road. said. "They might be the best doubtful for the Miami game. to live with for the rest of your "I think Miami is a better passing team in college, they Freshman Joe Allen moves into 
see HOLTZ, page 14
life. This is what Notre Dame football team than last year--run the ball effectively, and I the starting spot. 

"'"·~"' "~ _.,....,,,...,..w,....,....,,"'*"_'~--·~~-...,~'*
ND soccer Deadline is Friday
-----""'~""'""·~\'~ 
tames 
for basketball tickets 
Special to The Observer In other words, if students
Wildcats 
want to be sure to get good tick­By COLLEEN The application deadline for ets, they should apply by HENNESSEY students wishing to purchase Friday. Sports writer 1988-89 basketball season tick­Students must go to Gate 10 
ets is this Friday, Oct. 14. of the Joyce ACC between 9 
The Notre Dame women's According to ticket manager a.m. and 5 p.m. to fill out an soccer team raised its record Bubba Cunningham, the application for season tickets. to 11-3 last night with a 3-0 response to the new procedure At this time students will have shutout win over Northwes­has been slow. He estimates to specify if they will want tern. Despite their total only 200 students have filled out lower arena or bleacher seats, domination over the hapless applications to date. and must pay a deposit on the Wildcats, a club team that falls "There is no guarentee stu­ticket. to 0-3, the Irish did not look par­dents will get tickets if they ticularly polished in the effort. don't apply in the next three Ticket prices for 17 home 
"We're still having a little bit days," said Cunningham. games are $85 for lower arena of a problem with our offensive­Tickets will be distributed by seating and $68 for bleachers. defensive transition," ad­class beginning Oct. 31 to only A deposit of $45 for lower arena mitted Notre Dame head coach those who apply for tickets. If seats or $40 for bleachers is re­Dennis Grace. "But a team fewer than 4,300 students apply quired during this application cannot get to a point where it for tickets, then an extra dis­period.
The Observer I Susy Hernandez
will be able to stop working on tribution day open to all stu­
The Notre Dame women's soccer team, fresh off Its 3-0 victory The balance of the ticket
that skill." dents who did not apply will be 
over Northwestern Tuesday night, travels across the highway 
held after the freshman distri­price is due at the ticket distri­
see SOCCER, page 16 Thursday for a rematch with the Belles. 
bution. bution. 

Ideas for answering Miami questions 
On Saturday, the eyes of the nation will be on Notre Dame. 
And that's just how we want it. 
No. 1 vs. No. 4. Miami vs. Notre Dame. Played in the mecca of college football. The defending national champion against a team that finally has a legitimate chance to pay the Hurricanes back for 58-7 and 24-0. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

There is so much national attention on this one football game, probably more than for any other this season. Both school's sports information departments are flooded with work--arranging interviews, distributing stats and prepar­ing for the media onslaught on game day. 
Several members of the media have already found their way to this campus to do prep work. Among them are the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and, rumor has it, the Miami student newspaper, The Hurricane. Granted it is just a rumor, unconfirmed by Alumni-Senior Club (Senior Bar) managers, but word has it that The Hurricane had ideas of going to Senior Bar tonight and interviewing Notre Dame students about the game. 
Innocent enough, you say, until you hear that they plan on posting the quotes (unfavorable towards Miami, I'm guessing) in the Hurricane locker room on Saturday to fire up their team. 
Whether or not The Hurricane does this, the truth is an awful lot of reporters are seeking to scoop one of the major reasons this game is so big--the revenge sentiment of Notre Dame fans. Some have called it hate. 
see ANSWERS, page 14 
By STEVE MEGARGEE PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editors 
Ric Schafer is doing the best he can to make sure his second season as Notre Dame hockey coach is as similar as possible to the first. 
The promotional events are back and better than ever. The Bertles and Barnaby's puck shootout for a car is back. A new organ has been acquired, and seats will be available on both sides of the ice. 
But all that remains to be seen is whether the team on the ice can be as successful as last season, when the Irish com-
Moving up in hockey world 
Tougher schedule awaits 1988-89 Irish hockey team 

"Every team on our schedule is capable of beating us and in some cases beating us badly,'' says Schafer in reference to this year's improved list of op­ponents. "We had seven games on our schedule last year that our coaches and backup goalies could have put on equipment and won." 
The new and improved schedule includes games with Merrimack, Michigan, West­ern Michigan, Boston College and a trip over winter break to the RPI Tournament. 
"Sure, the schedule is differ­ent and a lot stronger," said 
see HOCKEY, page 18 
Mets win 5-1 to even series 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES --David Cone wrote a different story in Game 6 of the National League playoffs, pitching a five-hitter as the New York Mets beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-1 Tues­day night to tie the best-of­seven series at three games apiece. 
The decisive seventh game will be played Wednesday at Dodger Stadium. Orel Her­shiser, a 23-game winner, will start for Los Angeles against Ron Darling, 17-9. 
Hershiser started Games 1 and 3 without getting a deci­sion, and got a save in the Dodgers' 12-inning, 5-4 victory in Game 4. 
Kevin McReynolds, with a two-run homer among his four hits in four at-bats, provided the offense against loser Tim Leary. McReynolds, who also had a sacrifice fly, drove in three of the five runs as New York provided the scoring Manager Davey Johnson had promised for the sixth game. 
The four hits tied an NL playoff record accomplished by eight players, the last Tito Landrum of the St. Louis Car­dinals in 1985. 
The Mets dominated the season series against the Dodgers, winning 10 of 11. But 
see METS, page 14 

