
Snuggle up
IACCENT: New SYR ideas Continued cold but partly sunny today. High in the low to mid 20s. Low tonight around 
10. Partly sunny and warmer
IVIEWPOINT: Reflections on winter 
tomorrow. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 98 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Parrish, Buch to have run-off 

SMC elections Friday 
By LISA MONTPETIT government is up," Thompson News Staff said. "We're very excited about The tickets of Julie Parrish such a high voter turnout be­and Annie Buch will meet in a cause it shows that students run-off election Friday after really do care about their none of the three tickets won a elected government," Parrish majority of the votes in the said. Saint Mary's student body elec­Buch added that their ticket tion, according to Frannie "will continue to give 100 per­Thompson, elections commis­cent. We've had a great time sioner. and will keep up a positive at­Two of the three class elec­titude." tions also resulted in run-offs. Reilly stated that their ticket Parrish, running with Lisa was very disappointed. 


Hill, candidate for vice presi­"It's unfortunate that the stu­dent for student affairs, and dent body did not recognize the Christy Wolfe, candidate for strength of our ticket," Reilly vice president for academic af­said. "We are not anti-student fairs and college relations, government, but the eliteness 
received 37 percent of the of student government must 

T~e Observer I Stacy St. Germaine 
votes. end," she said. 

~-,·-· .
~"'i\· -Julie Parrish's ticket (above) will The ticket of Buch, Kim Sar­Running unopposed, the new
~-~\~;_ .·,·.\.,. 
run against Annie Such's ticket on tori and Carol Mahony took 31 senior class officers for 1988-89
,-~i .. ' ~ 
Friday in the run-off student body percent closely followed by are Rose Pietrzak, Rozel Gat­election at Saint Mary's. The Par­Ann Reilly, Julie Marozas and maitan, Lisa Emlong and rish ticket, (from left) Lisa Hill, Par­Kelly Connery with 30 percent Maria Koch. Fifty-six percent rish and Christy Wolfe, captured of the votes. of the junior class voted and 37 percent of the votes in Wednes­The results showed the larg­the ticket acquired 84 percent 
est voter turnout that Saint of the vote.

day's election. The Buch ticket, 
Mary's has ever had with 57 "We're glad we had a good

(from left) Carol Mahony, Buch and 
percent of the eligible student class turnout, and we're

Kim Sartori, took 31 percent of the 
body participating, according looking forward to continuing

votes. Buch was closely followed 
to • Thompson. "I think it's the tradition," Pietrzak said. 

by Ann Reilly's ticket that had 30 
great because we've never had Gatmaitan added, "We want 

percent of the votes. Story at right. 
that many vote before and it 
see RUN-OFF, page 5
shows that interest in student 


Juvenile arrested Reagan holds press conference 
Associated Press said he had "every confidence" reservations during the
in the personal integrity of em­Iran-Contra affair. But heBy JIM RILEY knee during the assault. 

WASHINGTON-President battled Attorney General Ed­refused to say precisely what News Editor The juvenile was arrested Reagan said Wednesday night win Meese III. but said he could Bush had told him. 
on charges of Class D felony "we've never let up and we not comment on reports of the Reagan said he didn't wantNotre D~e Security ar­criminal confinement, Class never will" in efforts to win investigation of Meese's role in to become involved in the GOPrested a 17-year-old Ed­C battery and Class A felony freedom for American a proposed Middle East oil nomination fight, but hewardsburg, Mich. resident attempted rape. 

hostages in Lebanon, and said pipeline. showed plenty of zest when itWednesday afternoon -in Rakow had said at the if Republican presidential con­In a session with reporters came to bashing theconnection with the Feb. 7 time of the incident that the tender Pat Robertson knew that blended international af­Democrats vying to succeedassault of a female Notre victim was not sexually as­anything of their whereabouts, fairs with the domestic him. To hear them, he said,Dame student in the D-2 saulted. He said Wednesday it was "very strange" that "he presidential campaign swirling "we're in an economic slump" parking lot, said Rex the attempted rape charge kept it to himself." around him, the president con­suffering from a variety of ills.
Rakow, director of Security. was made because "at one At a nationally televised firmed anew that Vice Presi­Security officers arrested point, (the suspect) asked 
see REAGAN, page 6

news conference, Reagan also dent George Bush expressedthe juvenile in Elkhart her to take her coat off." 
County. Rakow said the Rakow said he didn't know 
suspect lived near the if the attempted rape charge 
s. Africa bans groups' acts
Indiana-Michigan border. would stand. 
"We had him under surveil­Rakow said Security the regulations ''will contrib-ing any activites or acts what-Associated Press lance along with Michigan brought in the Indiana State ute to a climate of stability, sover." . . . .
State Police for three days," Police to do evidence analy­JOHANNESBURG, South peaceful coexistence, and good Secunty pohce notif1ed at Rakow said. sis of the suspect's vehicle, Africa-The government on neighborliness among all pop-least nine UDF m~mber~ ~f-re­Security received the go­including analysis of fibers Wednesday banned political ulation groups." strictions on the1~ acbv1~1es,ahead from the prosecutor's and hairs found in the vehi­activity by 18 opposition Vlok's order prohibits the which included bel!~~ confmedoffice and juvenile aut­cle. Security was able to groups, including the nation's United Democratic Front, to home and proh1b1ted from horities to arrest the suspect make a positive identifica­largest anti-apartheid organi­which represents more than 2 speaking publicl:r. .
and apprehended him Wed­tion of the suspect. 
zation and its biggest union million members, from any ac-UDF co-pres1d~n~ Arch1enesday afternoon when he "We've had the jeep for 
federation, in the most sweep­tivity except bookkeeping and Gumede was proh1b1ted from re-entered the state. about three days now," ing crackdown in a decade. court action. The same order participating in any UDF ac­
The female Notre Dame Rakow said. "(The suspect) Anglican Archbishop Des­was applied to 16 other groups, tivities and banned from speak­student was abducted at traded it to a dealership. The mond Tutu said the move would covering most of the large ing to jo~rnali_sts.
knife-point in the late after­dealer cooperated to let us be seen by many government militant black political groups Albertma S1sulu, the other 
noon Feb. 7 while clearing have it since it no longer opponents as a "declaration of in South Africa. co-president, was ordered con-
snow from the windshield of belonged to the suspect." 
war." It gives Vlok the power to fined to her home from 6 p.m. 
her car in the D-2 parking Law and Order Minister prohibit any organization
see D-2, page 5

lot. She was stabbed in the see BAN, page 4
Adriaan Vlok, however, said "from carrying on or perform­


In Brief 
Notre Dame ranks 38th in the nation in the number of freshman merit scholars enrolled with 40 students. The University is among 17 schools who only enroll those Merit Scholars whose scholarships were paid for by the National Merit Scholarship Corporation or other corporate spon­sors. Most colleges pay for a number of merit scholarships themselves. When comparing those 17 schools enrolling corporate-sponsored Merit Scholars, Notre Dame ranks 16th. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Honorable Eleuterio Espinas, the Consul General of the Philippine Consulate in Chicago, will speak on the . recent developments in the Philippines today at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Call Peter at 283-1418 or Chris at 283-1554 with any questions. -The Observer 
Sophomore Literary Festival continues today at noon with John Engels in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. At 8 p.m., Don Hendrie Jr. will read from his works in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium and a reception will follow in the Library Lounge. -The Observer 
Anti-Apartheid Network continues with its film series on the racial policies of the South African govern­ment. Part IV of the Frontline series deals with the more recent administration of P. W. Botha. This presentation will be at the Center for Social Concerns tonight at 7. -The Observer 
Argentine politics from 1912 to 1976 will be discussed by Nancy Powers Friday at 12:30 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
FAF deadline is February 28 for the 1988-89 school year. Forms can be found in the Financial Aid Office in the Administration Building. -The Observer 
Volunteers are needed to move furniture for the new shelter for the homeless in the Gilbert's building. Help is needed Saturday for several hours in the morning. To volunteer, contact Ken at 283-3554, Kelly at 283-2822, Diane at 283-4001 or Mary Carol at 283-5231. -The Observer 
Civil Engineering Career Night will be tonight at 7 in Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center. There will be speakers on graduate school, govern.ment, structural and environmental engineering. -The Observer 
In recol!nition of Black History :Month, Grace Vision wilT be airing the PBS six-hour mini-series "Eye on the Prize." This is a documentary about the Civil Rights movement from 1954 to 1965. It will start at 3 p.m. today and 6 p.m. Saturday on Channel 4 in Grace Hall. -The Observer 
AIDS in Africa. and the African Diaspora will be discussed by a panel featuring Mutombo Mpanya, Ali Maz­rui, Paul Carryon, M.D. and Margaret Aguwa, M.D. It will be held today from 3:30 to 6 p.m. in the Multipurpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Minority student concerns and the University's aim to raise the minority student ratio will be tonight's topic on the Campus Perspectives talkshow from 10 to 11 
p.m. on WVFI-AM 640. Both administrators and students will be interviewed, including admissions counselor Derek Gandy and students Aneka Bell and Laurenteen Morris. Host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Women's Care Center!PregnancyHelpCenter is holding a training session for volunteers during the · weekend of Mar. 4. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testing, crisis counseling and community refer­rals. The session will be held on campus in the Knights of Columbus building. Please contact the Wqmen's Care Cen­ter Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 234-0363 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 

Design Editor ............. Bernadette Shilts Sports Copy Editor... . Rick Rietbrock Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . Stewart Garcia Typists... . ... Wendy Burek Typesetters.. . ... Mike Buc ............................................ Jenn Conlon 
............ Smed Laboe ........................................ Lynsey Strand News Editor... ................. Scott Bearby ND Day Editor... ... Kathy McKee Copy Editors ....................... Greg Lucas Photographer ........... Stacy St. Germaine 
........... Kendra Morrill 

Tille Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during CJWII and vacation periods. Tille Oblener is published by the students of the Univenity of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tille Obaenn-, P .0. Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tille Oblener is a member of Tille AJaodated Preu. All reproduction rights are reset"Ved. 
Movies today lacking classic film qualities 
"Here's looking at you, kid." 
When Humphrey Bogart spoke that line in Chris the final moments of "Casablanca," a tear slowly rolled down Ingrid Bergman's cheek. As Bednarski she stared back into Bogart's eyes, longing to stay with him forever, a generation fell in love 
News Editor

with the two movie legends. 

Bogart's generation was the last that would 
.----,....-----r-~,...-------z:::.-r--1 fall in love with a teary-eyed Swede in a rain­coat. They were the same people who had fallen in love with Errol Flynn dressed in green tights and Olivia D'Haviland dressed in long robes in "The Adventures of Robin Hood". Movies were simpler a generation ago. Romance reigned in America's hearts. 
In Robin Hood's final scene Prince John's forces battle Robin Hood's. Hundreds of war­riors are stabbed, beaten and clubbed--but none bled. In the climax, Flynn thrusts his sword through Claude Raines' heart. Raines quietly grits his teeth as he dies. That same year Dorothy threw a bucket of water at the Wicked Witch of the West who melted to death. Such violence is tame compared to today's stand­ards; that's how the generation wanted it. 
In the 1985 movie "Scarface " AI Pacino 
buri~s his face ~n a mountain of1cocaine piled MLB on his desk. His body is later riddled with l-----------------~ hundreds of bullets, turning his white shirt red from Mary Hart on Entertainment Tonight. as blood is spewed into the camera's lens. In Kids parade around the house with Sony"Friday the _13th" and its five sequels, a psyc­Walkmans attached to their heads, oblivious to hopath wearmg a hockey mask buries hatchets in victims' sculls and lops off women's arms parents' words. Their only communication and legs.. In one famous scene, he shoots an comes when they ask mom if the TV dinner she arrow through a teenage girl's eye. Audiences plans to pop in the microwave is chicken or felt sick to their stomachs. They loved it. turkey. 
The values of the "microwave" generation 
A couple of years ago Tom Cruise, in "Risky have obviously changed from those of the "Ed­Business," ran a bordello from his parent's ward R. Murrow" generation. home. Teenage girls swooned over him. Today's teenage boys fall in love with the latest 
Change, however, is inevitable. As much as blonde who takes off her shirt on the big screen. 
we wish our kid brothers and sisters would al­ways be kids, we realize they will not. While Every generation has a different set of Y'e may reminisce about the "good old days" values, beliefs and priorities. m years to come, we'll also regret some of the Years ago, families ate dinner together and things we did. I still regret wearing that leisure 
then gathered around the radio to hear Edward suit for my eigth grade picture. 
R. Murrow report the war news from London. Later, after the kids said their prayers, Sinatra Although thoughts of the past bring feelings and Crosby sang them to sleep. 
of. safety and comfort to our hearts, change brmgs progress and progress makes life better. Today, as family members run in and out of I still wish, however, that I was born 50 years
the house, they catch a glimpse of the news ago. 
Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? .· ·· Answer: Buy Opserver ad space. Call 239-6900. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a lifesaving Red Crass CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
m 

25~  Coupon for one FREE Ride on the Buzz Bus.  
Friday and Saturday Nights 12-3 am  
S&nlo• Clul> 12:00 12:30  F1ve Pomt~ (Goodwill) 12.03 12:33  Howard & Sl.louis 12 07 12 37  Schedule N.D. :v1oin .J-parlmonls Circle 12:10 12:14 12:1•0 12:44  St-.1C Ho_lygos; 12.18 12:48  Library Circle 12:22 12:52  Campus V1eW' Tunle Creek (lv~ & Voness) 12:25 12 55  
1:00  1:03  1:07  1:10  1:1·1  1:18  1:22  1:25  
1:30  1:33  1:37  1:40  1:44  1:48  1:52  1:55  
2:00 2:30  2 03 2 j3  2:07 2·37  210 2:40  2:14 2:44  2:18 2:~8  2:22 2:52  2:25 ~ t',r.,  25~  

-----------~­
California law mandates hazardous 
Associated Press 
"WARNING: this product defects or other reproductive cer." This sign could be posted 
SACRAMENTO, Calif.-Signs contains a chemical known to harm may be present in foods on a service station island, warning of potentially harmful the State of California to cause or beverages sold or served along a factory fence or on an chemicals in everything from cancer." This sign could be here." This sign could be assembly line. foods to workplaces will sprout seen on store shelves. printed on restaurant menus. In addition, there will be across California this weekend "WARNING: chemicals "WARNING: this area con­labels, newspaper advertise­under a law approved by voters known to the State of California tains a chemical known to the ments, letters and telephone in 1986. to cause cancer, or birth State of California to cause can-hot line!'; tellin eo le about 
Anyway youslice it,Domino's Pizza® is agreat deal! 
Use all or any of the coupons and save on your  Call us!  
next purchase from  
Domino's Pizza. Get rolling!  Notre Dame  

Offer ends soon. 

277-2151 Domino's Pizza will deliver 1835 South Bend Ave. your pizza-hot and fresh 
-in less than 30 minutes. Just give us a call. 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 


r---------------~ r---------------~
~---------------, I 
Think I I 
Thick $1.00 Off! $2.00 Off! 
$5.00 $1.00 off any 12" pizza. $2.00 off any 16" pizza. One coupon per order. Not One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. valid with any other offer. 
Only $5.00 for a 12" pizza with thick crust, extra cheese and pepperoni. Good on Thursday. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. 



Fast, Free Delivery'" Fast, Free Delivery •• a~ Fast, Free Delivery'" Expires: 2-21H8





I. mm®
Expires: 2-29-88 Exp1res: 2-29-88 
Valid at participating stores only. Valid at participating stores only. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Not valid w"h any other offer. Not valid w"h any other offer. Customer pays applicable sales tax. Customer pays applicable sales tax.... Customer pays applicable sales tax . ..1 
~---------------~ ~---------------~--------------­
warnings 
chemicals in the products they buy and the environment in which they work and live. 
But there probably won't be any warning signs for the more than 15,000 grocery, drug and cosmetic products bought every day. 
Hopefuls exchange sniping 
Associated Press 
Rep. Richard Gephardt echoed a George Wallace refrain on Wednesday, saying there is "hardly a dime's worth of difference" between his chief Democratic presidential rivals on economic issues. Re­publican Sen. Bob Dole sought to slice into Vice President George Bush's Southern sup­port. 
Gephardt blistered Gov. Mi­chael Dukakis and Sen. Albert Gore Jr. while a fourth Demo­crat announced he would not compete in the delegate-rich round of primaries known as Super Tuesday on March 8. Il­linois Sen. Paul Simon, reeling after a spate of poor finishes, insisted he would remain in the race but conceded he lacked the money to compete across the South. 

Among the Republicans, former television evangelist Pat Robertson said his Christ­ian Broadcasting Network once knew the whereabouts of the American hostages in Lebanon and suggested they could have been rescued. 
The assertion drew a tart response from the White House, where spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said, "Why didn't he tell us where they were?" 
It was the second startling comment in as many days from Robertson. He suggested on Tuesday that Bush's campaign aides were behind the recent public disclosure of television evangelist Jimmy Swaggert's sexual misconduct, and said they timed the disclosure to make life difficult for another television evangelist running for president. 
Bush denied that charge anew, saying, "I'd like to see an apology or proof." 
The vice president shrugged off Dole's solid victories Tues­day night in the South Dakota primary and Minnesota caucuses, saying, "You can't win them all." He made a flying tour through New En­gland, where he hopes to win the Maine caucuses over the weekend and the Vermont pri­mary next Tuesday. 
But those events -one in a state where the vice president owns a home and the other that has no bearing on the hunt for convention delegates -drew little attention from the rest of the field. 
Instead, other eyes turned to Dixie, which is hosting most of the 20 Democratic and 17 Re­publican contests that will be held on a single day on March 8. 
Dole campaigned in South Carolina with Sen. Strom Thur­mond at his side, and said he supports legislation on textile imports that is popular in the state. 

----~----~---·---~--­
Observer Board set to lead 
Special to the Observer 
The Observer has an­nounced the following pro­motions to complete the General Board for 1988-1989. New board members will as­sume their positions after Spring Break. The selections were made by Editor-in­Chief-Elect Chris Murphy, Managing Editor-Elect Chris Donnelly and Business Manager John Oxrider. 
Mark McLaughlin, a fourth year student in a five year Aerospace Engineer­ing and Psychology pro­gram, has been named news editor. McLaughlin, whose hometown is Middletown, N.J., currently serves as projects manager. 
Regis Coccia, a sopho­more American studies! French major, has been named news editor. Coccia, whose present position is as­sistant news editor, is from Bound Brook, N.J. 
Sandy Cerimele, a junior 
majoring in government and 
minoring in professional 
writing, will continue her 
present duties as Saint 


Role of layperson 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Staff Reporter 
The call of the Catholic layperson goes beyond church­going on Sundays, according to Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese. 
D'Arcy spoke Wednesday in the Law School Lounge at a lunch-time lecture sponsored by Jus Vitae, a right-to-life group. "The layperson is seen, in the light of the Second Vatican Council," said D' Arcy, "as someone who acts as a leaven or a yeast from within, to transform the world ... by being competent in his or her profession, but also by living the values of the gospel." 
He said all laypeople have a vocation to influence and change the world they live in "by bringing Christ to all those aspects of his or her family life, social life (and) professional life." 
"It (the vocation) is con­cerned with what they do every day, not just what they do on Sundays," he added. 
D' Arcy urged students to ''look at the signs of the times," and told them to "scrutinize and interpret, discern the signs of the times, strengthening 
Mary's editor. Cerimele's 
hometown is Youngstown, 
Ohio. 
Matt Slaughter, a sopho­more economics! govern­ment major, has been ap­pointed Viewpoint editor. Slaughter, who hails from Minnetonka, Minn., has served as assistant View­point editor. 
Beth Healy, a junior En­glisW American studies major from Evansville, In­d., has been promoted to Ac­cent editor. Healy currently serves as an assistant Ac­cent editor. 
Marty Strasen, a junior American studies major, has been named sports editor. Strasen, whose 
hometown is Sault St. Marie, 
Ontario, Canada currently is 
an assistant Sports editor. 
Mike Moran, a junior eco­
nomics/ALP A major, has 
been named photography 
editor. Moran, who is from 
Fullerton, Calif., is an assis­
tant photography editor. 
Molly Killen, a sophomore 
enrolled in the College of 
Arts and Letters, will con­
tinue her duties as advertis­

what  is  good,  opposing  
what is evil."  
"A  man  is  made  by  his  

choices," he said. "We will have to make a determination . . . whether we stand in the faith given by Jesus Christ ... or whether we stand outside it and march to the beat of this particular time," he added. 
D'Arcy praised the work of Sir Thomas More, an English lawyer, statesman and author of the early and middle 1500's. He lauded More's quest for truth, counter-cultural activi­ties in the name of Catholicism and incorportion of moral law into his practice of civil law. D' Arcy encouraged the audi­ence of law students to do the same in their future endeavors. 
r----------·-·--·-------1 
I Nl) AVE APTS. 
I 

Tonight at Theodore's 
1 l~arly Bird Special I 
.....,.__ 9 : 30 ---­1 Now renting for Fall I 1 2 Bedrooms completely furnished J I Sign up before break and Call I I _ receive a 10% discount 234-6647 I 
l!~!:.:!.~-~_?2.~~~1!. .~~~~-~.:.~~LJ 
ing design manager. Killen, whose hometown is Perrys­burg, Ohio, has served in this capacity since January. 
Linda Goldschmidt, a junior economics major from Scarborough, N.Y. has been named advertising manager.
Mark Ridgeway, a junior electrical and computer engineering major, has been appointed to systems manager. Ridgeway, whose hometown is Columbus, Ohio, currently serves as as­sistant systems manager. 
Bernadette Shilts, a soph­omore economics major from Fairfield, Calif., has been named Production manager. Shilts currently serves as a design editor. 
Todd Hardiman, a junior accounting major, has been named controller. Har­diman's hometown is Fort Belvoir, Va. 
Margaret Bruns, a sopho­more enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, has been named graphic arts manager. Bruns currently works as a staff artist and her hometown is Iowa City. 


Ind. and the ISO festival. --­
prohibited from speaking to the press. 
The 750,000-member Congress of South African Trade Unions was ordered to stick to labor issues and barred from political activities, such as advocating holidays with special meaning to blacks and calling for the release of detained union members. 
In Washington, State Depar­tment spokesman Charles Red­man said the government was "appalled" at the restrictive measures. 
"This is a giant step back­ward for South Africa," Red­man told reporters. 
BEER 
Old Milwaukee ... 24 cans..$5.99 Old Milwaukee Light...24 cans..$5.99 Ute ... 24 cans..$8.57 Miller's ... 24 cans..$8.57 Genuine Dralt ... 24 cans..$8.57 Miester Brau..,24 cans..$4.99 Utile King's ... 24 bottles 7oz ...$4.99 Hammes ... 24 cans..$5.99 Hammes light ... 24 cans..$5.99 Stroh's ... 30 pack ..$8.57 
RETURNABLES 
Budweiser ... 24 bottles ..$8.38 Budweiser ligh1...24 bottles..$8.38 Rhinelander... 24 bottles..$4.99 
QUARTS 
Budweiser ... 12 quarts ..$11.69 Budweiser ligh1...12 quarts ..$11.69 Busch... 12 quarts ..$9.99 


CITY-WIDE LIQUORS 3825 N. Grape Rd. 

Mish, Ind. 

Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-10 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 272-2274 

SUPER SPECIAL 
Old Style Regular Case of 16oz. cans 32 beers $7.99 
LIQUOR 
McCormick Vodka ... 1.75 liters..$7.99 McCormick Gin ... 1.75 liters..$8.99 Castillo Rum ... 1.75 lijers..$11.99 Dubouchett Peach Schnapp's ... liter ..$4.99 Dekuyper Apple Barrel Schnapp's...liter..$4.99 Dekuyper Root Beer Schnapp's...lijer..$4.99 
WINE 
Carlo Rossi. 4 liters..$5.59 Gallo Blush Chablis ... L5 liters..$3.99 

TRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE OFF EDISON AD 

~defined 

He gave human rights, abor­tion and the rights of women as examples of signs of the times which laypeople-should scrutinize and devote their energies towards in order to change the world for the better. 
The bishop also talked of the Church's necessity to be "counter-cultural" at times. He quoted Pope John Paul II in saying that American Cat­holics' "discernment (of good and evil), which the layperson especially practices, requires a more mature readiness to be counter-cultural." 
"Freedom to follow your Catholic faith does not auto­matically mean it will be easy to speak and act in tin~ name of the Lord Jesus," said D'Arcy, still quoting the pope. 
Ban 

continued from page 1 
to 5 a.m., prohibited from par­
ticipating in activities of the 
UDF and other organizations, 
and barred from addressing 
meetings of more than 10 
people. 

"We are all peaceful organi­
zations trying to unite the 
people. Is this the way of 
reform? We dare say the gov­
ernment is declaring war on 
the people of South Africa," 
Mrs. Sisulu told reporters. She 
said she wasn't sure if she was 
------------------CALLfOR SYR PARTIES 
.------------­
~ ------------~ 
Thursday, February 25, 1988 The Observer page 5 

junior class office will compete tween the Molly Bringardner
again in the run-off after two ticket and Margaret Belin's of the tickets tied for second ticket. 



Run-off 
continued from page 1 
place, Thompson said. With 52 percent of the fresh­to make sure the Class of '89 Lisa Catenacci's ticket led man class casting their votes, remembers us and the Class of the race with 49 percent. The Bringardner's ticket acquired '89 is remembered." tickets of Rachael J arosh and 36 percent of the votes cast. 
The sophomore class had the Jill Terry tied at 18 percent fol­Belin came away with 30 per­highest voter turnout, at 59 per­lowed by Elizabeth Hassel's cent and Natacha Doyle's cent, as well as the highest ticket at 14. ticket received 27 percent. number of voters who Thompson added that a run­Run-off elections will be held abstained at 17 percent. Three off will also take place for the Friday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at of the four tickets running for sophomore class offices be-SAGA during dining hours. 

Prof. defendS Palestinians 
of view ... their entire land has By LIZ PANZICA "These people have trained been occupied and there canCopy Editor the Palestinians for the first not be a peace until the Pales­time since the 1930s, to have a tinians, the people of the land, "The Palestinians are a very hope that they might have their have some portion of that land ancient and dignified people own land back," said themselves," he said. 
and they are appalled that Burtchaell of the PLO. "In Burtchaell said the WestAmericans can be so blind to their view they must free a por­Bank and Gaza Strip do not rep­their cause," said Father tion of the land." 
resent a viable portion of theJames Burtchaell in a lecture Previous Palestinian claims land. He said the PalestiniansWednesday night. Speaking to want to drive the Israelis to would need to be awarded land in St. Edward's Hall, the sea are only rhetoric now, suitable for farming and indus­
2% abstained. 

Burtchaell said, "The PLO is said Burtchaell. "It has been try so that the they would bethe only viable political repre­widely understood that there is willing to emigrate.
sentation of the Palestinian going to remain an Israel but According to Burtchaell, the
jurisdiction," Rakow said. The people." Burtchaell outlined also that there has got to be a
D-2 
land awarded to the Pales­
suspect was being held in the the history of the Palestinians Palestine," he said. "This ac­
continued from page 1 tinians must be good enough to 
St. Joseph County jail Wednes­and their lands and focused on ceptance on the part of the 
draw them out of Israel.
He said detectives developed day. the Palestinian viewpoint in Palestinians has not yet been The hostility between theleads on the suspect's vehicle Security was assisted by Mic­recent developments. matched by any corresponding Arab and the Jew is not an oldthrough information from the higan and Indiana state police, He said he focused on the Pal­politically viable group on the rivalry. The Jews were not avictim. Elkhart county and city police, estinian's view "because part of the Israelis," according factor in the Middle East untilThe juvenile will appear at a and St. Joseph County Police, Americans have a fairly good to Burtchaell. 
after World War I, he said.
hearing to be "waived to adult said Rakow. access to the Israeli view." "From the Palestinian point 

Students denied aid must explore options outside ND 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR impossible for me to return Until students are to prepare for when he has to fice "can't help all of them," Staff Reporter here next year," he said. guaranteed that they will leave. Cunnar is less for­he said. Cunnar is one of about ten receive aid they all must deal tunate. He is uncertain about 
"I've lived my life to come students who are presently with the same gnawing uncer­being able to attend school at He said the Financial Aid Of­here,'' said Jim Cunnar, a soph­financially unable to return to tainty. Frank Tarin, a fresh­all next year. "I've tried to ap­fice tries to help as many stu­omore with a strong grade Notre Dame next fall accor­man from El Paso, Texas, said ply to other schools," he said, dents as possible but does not point average in the pre-med ding to Joe Russo, director of he will "return next year but "but Notre Dame won't send grant any aid based solely on program who won't be return­Financial Aid. probably not after that." He my transcripts until I pay my need. According to Russo, the 
ing to Notre Dame next year Cunnar and other students said the money he'll get debts." decision to grant aid is based because of financial reasons. applied for financial aid but through financial aid loans and Russo said that the number primarily on "need, academic Having exhausted years were turned down this year and scholarships should be enough of students in danger of not performance and indebtedness worth of savings, a $2,500 stu­told that their chances are not for next year, but at that rate being able to return is about to date." Russo said he was 
dent loan and a $500 scholar­good for next year either be­ship from a local Notre Dame cause the financial aid office Club, Cunnar said "It is "is out of money," Cunnar said. 
~j:i-:-You'll. see JJI~ the savings! 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 

•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 


$39.98
Contact Lenses 
Dally W~ar Pow<:rs +7.00 to -12.00 
per pair
F.xt~nd~d W~ar Powors plano to -6.00 
•Tinted 
2 Pairs for
Contact Lenses Daily or 
ExtendedWear 

$99.98
a.••cb a Lomb or leftm1tc B 
2 Diflerent Colors 
An eye exam is required at the time of 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Limitea time offer. 
1111111111111111"'"'"""' ~c~ ....,,,,111111111111111111 
"Our eyewear prices are the lowest in fnd lana, and our eyecare quality is 1
11111111111111111111"''~~~....~111111 
unsurpassed. And that's a 
8~(3
prom(se from the doctor." 
a~ 
South Btnd Mishawaka 1111 E lnl.ad Rd 506 W. McKinley Bro•dmoor Pla:u K-Mn1/M1r1m Cenler 1craa from ScOUidak Mall neJ.t door l.o Oleo D,o~R 
291·4000 258-5000 
he would be about $18,000 in the same as in previous years. "optimistic that things will be debt by graduation. He has They "all will get special better than last year;" in ref­begun to apply to other schools help," but the Financial Aid Of-erence to the number of stu­
1988 

Sophomore Literary Festival 
University of Notre Dame 

Thursday, February 25 
12:00 pm Conversation with 
JOHN ENGELS Library Lounge 
Don Hendrie, Jr. Reading Library Auditorium Reception following 
in Library Lounge All events are free of charge and everyone is welcome 
Sponsored by Student Union Board 
dents accomodated for next fall's semester because of the University's $12 million com­mitment to increase minortiy enrollment in the next four years and the ongoing $300 mil­lion fund raising program. 
The Observer 
STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHICAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU­DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'S OF OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE TO BUDGET TRAVELERS. 

uncil TravQ 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL (312) 951-0585 



ND grad 
•


1n dream 
Associated Press 

MICHIGAN CITY, Ind.­Nightmares aren't all bad, a Michigan City dream therapist says. 
Sister Terese Fabri, a graduate of Notre Dame, helps people determine what their dreams are trying to say to them. 
Nightmares occur when the unconscious mind says, "Hey, we've got a problem here that needs to be dealt with," accor­ding to the therapist. 
Fabri said dreams represent our deepest, wisest self speak­ing to our sometimes foolish and neglectful self. 
"It's me learning about myself from within myself," she said. "We're walking around with the best therapist in the world right inside each of us." 
A student at Richland High School in Washington Fabri was a member of the proudly displays the school's symbol: a mushroom Sisters of the Holy Cross order 
for 20 years before joining the 
cloud. The students voted overwhelmingly on Tues-

assists therapy 

more liberal Sisters for a Chr­istian Community. 
A former school teacher, Fabri first became interested in dream therapy in 1985. While on a religious retreat, she found a copy of Morton Kelsey's "Dreams: A Way To Listen To God." 
After reading that book, she began recording and studying her own dreams. 
"Prior to this, I couldn't even remember dreams," said the therapist. "I was very im­pressed." 
Since then, she has con­ducted workshops at state penal facilities, schools and service organizations in nor­thern Indiana. 
She uses word association techniques to help others decip­her their dreams. 
"Dreams bring to us from our unconscious what we need to know about our conscious lives," she said. 
Angry parents protest demotion of elementary children 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Angry parents in a tough South Side neighbor­hood kept nearly half the pupils home from a public school Wednesday after the principal demoted 250 youngsters at midyear because of poor reading skills. 
"I will never agree to demot­ing my child," said Brenda Wimberly, whose 9-year-old 


Reagan 
continued from page 1 
''At the moment none 01 LI10Se things are true," he said. 
It was Reagan's first news conference in four months, and he passed up several invita­tions to criticize Israeli action against Arab protesters on the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
"We don't support that sort of thing,'' was as strong a state­ment as the president would make, but he added quickly that there was evidence that • the riots that provoked an Is­raeli military crackdown were not "spontaneous." 
Asked to elaborate, he said: 

"we have had information that 
there have been certain people 
suspected of being terrorists, 
outsiders coming in and stir­
ring up the trouble in those son, Dontae, was demoted from "I took the step because my third to second grade. "If his children were so far behind ­reading doesn't come up in two, three, four years behind April, then he can remain in in reading -that we had to do the third grade for next year." something," Dawson said in a 
About half of Beethoven telephone interview. Elementary School's 830 stu­"We had to take a stand that dents have been kept out of the children can't just sit in the school since Monday by angry classroom and do nothing," she parents. said. 
Principal Grace Dawson said Wednesday she would try to Dawson appealed to the par­make her decision stick. ents to come in for individual 
On other matters, Reagan raelis and Arabs would "r .. said Secretary of State George themselves of old ideas and Shultz had given him an "en­stances that cannot work" and couraging" report on his just­begin serious peace negotia­completed trip to the Soviet tions. Union, and said he hoped Is-

If you have a~ but are low on $$$ 
We may have a job for you 
The Observer is looking for a dependable, trustworthy, person (with a car) to pick up photos from the South Bend Tribune and deliver them to our office every weekday afternoon. 
If you're looking for a steady source of income-without a huge time commitment-this could be the job for you. 
Interested? Contact Chris Donhelly at The Observer office for more information. 
areas." 

D I s T I N G U I S H E D 
s T u D E N T 
A w A R D 
Once again the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations from February 19 to February 28 for their annual Distinguished Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following criteria: 
1. 
Service to Notre Dame 

2. 
Service to the Community 

3. 
Good Academic Standing 


Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association offici (2nd floor of the Administration Building), University Ministry offices (Badin Hall & Memorial Library), and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 29th. 
ADWOilKS 

meetings on their children's academic problems. 
While some parents taught their children at a makeshift alternative school Wednesday, about 20 met with Dawson at the school and another contin­gent attended the Chicago Board of Education's regular meeting to protest the demo­tions. 
Most of Beethoven's students live in the nearby Robert Taylor Homes, the nation's largest high-rise public housing project. It stands in one of the city's poorest South Side neighborhoods, an area rife with crime and street gangs. 
Dawson said the students were demoted Feb. 15 because of low reading scores on achievement tests. 

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
ASSISTANT 
PRODUCTION 
MANAGER 
For further information contact 
Bernadette Shilt&'Melissa Warnke 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
Are you interested? 
-interested in 
helping to 
manage and account for $3PO ..~OO??? 
If you are ... If you are a SOPHMORE BUSINESS MAJOR 
who enjoys 
working 
with 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU 
as the 
STUDENT BODY ASSISTANT TREASURER!!! 

The Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: Student Government 
SUB 
Halls clubs and organizations 
1ltis position will prepare you Applications are available in the for becoming the Student Body Treasurer"s office,2nd floor of Treasurer the following year. La Fortune. 12:30-4:30 p.m. 
applications are due on Wed. March 2 by 4:00p.m. 
ANY QUESTIONS? Contact Michelle Zinser at 239-7417 
--------~--------­






Viewpoint
Thursday, February 25, 1988 
A time to stop and reflect 
Mom was surprised at me for cussing when I should have been enjoying my out all the snow and the excesses of my time with God. South Bend winter. She told me that it After my phone call with mom, I was )Yasn't like me to say I hated winter, feeling angry with myself. Then I was especially snow. She gave me her stan-disappointed that I had let so much of dard quip on how God created every-winter pass me by. Then I was sad that thing for a purpose and how it is not the last few weeks would never come our place to question that purpose or to back again. I spent a few hours looking doubt it. Normally I would have rolled .. through my photo. album and high 
my eyes and submitted to her simple logic but this time Mom really hit home hard. 
Lou Sarabando 
guest column 

For the past few weeks Old Man Win­ter has overstayed his welcome-­concomitantly making many of us weary, sick and irritable. My own ir­ritability had brought on a serious case of winter depression and post-holiday doldrums. I'm afraid that I was begin­ning to fall apart as a person. My atti­tude towards life in general was growing complacent, and I was begin­ning to just let life carry me along rather than be an active part of it. And I can blame it all on the snow. 
Snow was such ecstasy in childhood! Schools closed, mom and dad stayed home from work--TV all day! I stayed warm and cozy indoors and watched the world stop just outside our front door. It was a time when you looked forward to helping dad shovel the walk. 
Years later, snow was still the greatest thing. You could still stay home and drink cocoa with mom and dad, only dad made you shovel the walk now. But you didn't really mind that much. It was the greatest feeling com­ing back indoors with your face all red and your cheeks feeling like they were burning up, slowly channeling the warmth to the rest of your icy body as you peeled off layer after layer of thick winter clothing. Just sitting in dad's recliner reading a "fun" book for the rest of the day was great. 
All of that was God's gift to me, and 
still is. I was getting so caught up in 
my secular life that I almost missed it 
this winter. I was writing papers, study­
ing for tests, reading books I was sup­
posed to have read by now, worrying 
about personal relationships, working, 
doing laundry, housecleaning, etc., 
Garry Trudeau 
1AJHAT'5 TH~ PA-
HeY.' 
GOIN60N llENTSAR£ 
L&Ts60 
IN TH~ (])NIJUCTJN6 
l{)THt
[)()CTOR? A PRE~­
CANIJI­
/ IJeNT/A/... 
IJAT&~' 
5TRAIIJ 
t:Jt8Am!
POU ... 
IHA! 

school yearbook remembering all the different stories and people that had slipped my mind. 
I went for a long walk in the snow. I wore my favorite blue sweater that my dad bought almost 30 years ago when he still lived on a farm in Portugal, and a wonderfully-itchy wool scarf mom gave me for Christmas this year. The thick blue boot socks I "borrowed" from my brother a few years ago also helped to keep me warm. I walked slowly around the neighborhood, not sure where I was going. I just wanted to see the snow--really see it like I used to when I didn't know so much. It was cold. But after a while it wasn't bitter cold. I really felt what my mom had told me. I felt so warm in my heart that it was no longer cold. 
When I got back to my place. I had added the following conclusion to my philosophy of life: if we look beyond what things appear to be, we not only see their true essence but also feel it ourselves. I know what it is to be snow­-and it is something wonderful. 
When I entered my apartment I felt that burning inside my cheeks as the warm air brushed against my face. I almost expected mom to be standing there with a mug of cocoa waiting, and I even felt a little disappointed that she wasn't, but I fixed it myself. I sat down in my favorite chair and held the pic­ture of my mom and dad standing at the Grotto, where I had just been. I sat for a long time and then went to sleep. 
I wanted to share my experience with everyone·else who was so busy com­plaining about the snow that they forgot what the snow represented. Go for a walk, forget everything for just a little while, and just feel the snow--feel what it means! 
Thank you, God, for my wonderful family, and thanks so much for snow 
Lou Sarabando is a senior En­glish!ALPA major. 
I'M TRYIN6 TO GET lHE GR.OVP 70 INTBR­
ACTRe3PON~I&Y. 
\ 
page 7 

P.O. Box Q 
men and women, from reporting their assaults. During her presentation the message was given that all crime vic­tim's names would be printed. The statement may be true in other com­munities but not in ours. I hope that you are willing to publish my enclosed remarks to provide the students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's college with the correct information. 
Thanks in advance for you willing­ness to help provide the accurate infor­mation. 
Laurel Eslinger Volunteer Services Coordinator Sex Offense Services February 18, 1988 
Ad shows lack of concern 
Dear Editor: 

That Fidelity magazine would resort to a scurrilous and ad hominem attack on a member of the Notre Dame com­munity is neither new nor surprising, although the vilification of a deceased member of that community does not set something of a new standard in bad taste. 
What is surprising is that the Obser­ver would actively cooperate in such a gesture of contempt, by undertaking to publish Fidelity's defamatory adver­tisement of Feb. 23, 1988. At the time of Father Rasmussen's death last se­mester, you made a sensitive and com­mendable decision not to publicize the more sensational aspects of the story. By reversing that decision now, for reasons of commercial gain, you have degraded not only Father Rasmussen and the University but also yourselves. You owe an apology to all your readers, but especially to those of us who were Father Rasmussen's students, col­leagues and friends. 
Charles R. Hohenstein 
Graduate student February 24, 1988 

The Observer welcomes your letters and columns. Please address them to The Observer, 
Involve yourself with PVO 
Dear Editor: 

Private· voluntary organizations direct services internationally, free of interference from their own or host gov­ernments. PVOs have become major establishments in development and humanitarian assistance work; they act as relief agents, lobbying groups and international diplomats. 
In recent years they have begun to work closely both with other PVOs and with academic institutions. For exam­ple, in 1987 the Ecumenical Working Group on Africa, which includes church organizations such as Catholic Relief Services, Luthern World Relief, Amer­ican Friends Service Committee and others, met at Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute to discuss collaborative ef­forts. 
PVOs are accessible. They are trying to get a familiar reputation, and they want to be used as access groups; for students they can be alternative job souFces; for facuty they can supply "real world" (i.e. broad, international) information for teaching or research. 
So the "PVO intiative" in progress is an attempt to conciliate PVOs with other PVOs, with students and facutly and with universities as a whole. Kel­logg Institute's Mutumbo Mpanya is ac­tively polling newcomers to make the PVO initiative successful. · 
His latest effort is a conference to take place Thursday, February 25, 1988, on AIDS in Africa. 
If anyone is interested in gettinig more information about this confer­ence, about working with a PVO or in obtaining research materials, contact either Mutumbo Mpanya, Kellogg In­stitute or Lara Naughton. 
Lara Naughton Off-campus February 22, 1988  
Rape needs  message clarifying  
Dear Editor:  

I am very concerned that the mes­sage delivered Tuesday night by Dr. Mary Koss will deter rape victims, both 
PO Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
r----------------,
Doonesbury 
_Quote of the Day
dJ GOOPTHINGQJO,a)?, CA-!iTRAIAJ POUS AR& /1113AN­
/N6/..&5~.
CHOO,~~~I
t«JB/N7V,., 

"After silence that which
" 
~» 

comes nearest to expressing
5TROU. AR.()(JNIJ TH~ 

the inexpressible is music." 
,... 6ROUNIJS... 
Aldous Huxley 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Oblerver is the independent newspaper publilhad by the students of the UnivaBity of Notre o-du Lac and Saint Mary·• Conaga. It does no1 nacassarily reflac1 the policial of the adminiltration of eithef institution. The ~ 11 reported u accurately and objectively as possible. UnSigned editorials repreaent the opinion of the m8jortty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. lertera and the lnlide Column preaenl the views of !heir aulhorl. Column apace 11 available lo all members of the IChool community, and lhelree expression of varying opinions on campus. lhrough leners. ia encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor·in·Chief .................................. Kevin Becker Business Manager .. .. ... .. ..... John Oxrider Managing Editor... .. .................... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ........ ....... Molly Killen N-s Editor ....................................Chria Bednarlki Advertising Manager ... ........................ Steve Clark New8 Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager... .. . . . ..... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ........ .........................Chrif M~ Projects Manager..... ...Mark Mclaughlin Spom Edltrx....... ........................... Dennie'(.orrigan Systems Manager .. . ... Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller.................. .. ... Tracy Schindele Saint Mlll)''l Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor.. .. ... . ... .. .. .. .. .... . . .. ............ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1111 


Accent 
Thursday, February 25, 1988 

Another article about SYRs 
eoa e
0
~ 
0 
~ 
~ 
Q 
~c 

r Al ~ so 
,?­
/"" 

, I 
r 
r r 
I 
n the month of the year that everyone agrees is two weeks too long, cold as a Nor­wegian nun, and cursed with Valentine's Day, it seems par­ticularly appropriate to enter­tain a brief discussion of the SYR phenomena. Not that SYRs ever last too long, are too cold, 


Kevin Walsh 
guest column 
or make too many pretensions 
about "luv." No, that's not what 
I'm saying at all. Why would 1 
say that? I think it's so funny 
that you think I'd say that. 
So we once again find our­
selves in the middle of 
February, in the middle of 
prime SYR time, and in the 
middle of another over­
elaborate sentence utilizing the 
royal "we." It's time to get back 
to basics. 
For those of you who don't know anything about the origins of the SYR. here is a brief history: Back in the early 50s, when Notre Dame was an all-male school, a sort of Cath­olic Alcatraz, the social life was ... well, geez, let's just say it was pretty lame. I know this is a shocker in this age of Theodisco and, urn, well, of Theodisco. But just try for a moment to imagine it. After many long, hard bouts of...well, after many long, hard bouts, our rugged forefathers created the SYR or the "Screw­Your-Roommate" dance. These days, historians are divided over whether the SYR was originally some kind of male­bonding ritual, a chance to make your roommate look foolish by setting him up with a local farm animal, or just 
another excuse to get drunk. Nobody I talked to was sure which of those functions the SYR serves today either. Everybody agreed, however, 
that no one should be allowed to attend one dressed like the Village People. 
Everybody develops their own little quirks about SYRs. I think it's always a nice gesture to ask a member of the oppo­site sex. It's just this little habit I've gotten into. I also like to decide whether I'm going at least a week in advance, just so I've got enough time to work up a good cold sore on my lip. 
Then there's always this Hower question. I'd like to 

clarify a sort of fine point here. We all know that every Hower is symbolic of something. For instance, if you bring a red rose, it signifies death. A pink rose means you're not afraid of your masculinity. A white rose says, "All my other socks were dirty." Other flowers have other meanings, but I'm sure you can figure those out. The final two guidelines for potential flower-buyers: Never buy a flower you wouldn't eat your­self, and never, ever, bring a date stink cabbage. 
When you finally get to the dance, the question inevitably arises, "Wuddoo we do now?" Of course, your options are 

many. You can dance to the disc j~key who will play, just so you know, "Shout," "Louie Louie," and "What I Like About You," in that order, most of the night. You can wait until he plays "Mony Mony" and watch in horror while all the prissy girls you ever met howl the off-color lyrics. You can run away. You can watch all the Program of Liberal Studies people dance like everybody did at Woodstock. You can puke your guts out. You can run away. You can press your lips against your date's lips until they become numb as slugs, or you can laugh at everybody else doing it. You can fall asleep. You can run away. And that's only the beginning! An SYR. if done properly, is a veritable carnival of possibility, an entire world of excitement. 
The problem is that of course most SYRs are not prop­erly done. In fact, many I've been to are about as exciting 
_,. ........ ' 
'----o 0 ..............., 
wooo?~ 
\\"' \ ",\\~ 
\ 
as acne medicine. That is why today I would like to propose, free-of-charge, a few new dance themes that I'm almost sure have never been done before. 
The Petting Zoo SYR: Import some baby pigs and goats and 
ducks and let them wander 
through the dance. A feedbag 
for your date is 50 cents extra. Fun for the whole family. 

The Safe-Sex SYR: The opposite of the petting zoo motif and probably a fine example, as most SYRs are, of what Woody Allen called "Oral Contracep­tion." In other words, just say no. 
The Cross-Dressing SYR: Come dressed as your date. Simple, 
fun, and learn a littile bit about societal gender roles in the process. 
The Generic SYR: Ask the most generic person you know. Call them "date" the wtJole night. Stare listlessly at the yellow squares labelled "decorations" on the walls. Drink one of the. two drinks--"beer" or "mixed drink." Dance to "Shout," "Louie Louie," and "What I Like About You" in that order the whole night. Maybe every SYR is using this theme already. 

In the final analysis, the main question posed by an SYF is "Wha ... ?" One graphic way o answering this question is to imagine Romeo and Juliet at an SYR. JULIET: Romeo, oh, Romeo, whatfore art thou major, Romeo? ROMEO: Ah, Juliet, your eyes are like two vats of cheap cherry wine laced with Everclear ... um, mine major is American Studies, why dost thou asketh? JULIET: Oh, Romeo, just won­dering why thou broughtst me stink-cabbage... 
See what I mean? There is a lesson in this ironic wordplay besldes that which can be learned from my skill with En­glish prose. 
Romeo and Juliet placed in an SYR context sound like Ab­bot and Costello. Think about it. 


Notre Dame Facelift? 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Christine Walsh Photos by Zoltan <Iry 
"I don't want to build anything. I 
just want to move the whole campus to California, or build a bubble over the campus so we wouldn't have to deal with South Bend weather. Also, most col­leges have a main strip leading into campus, with shops and boutiques. I'd like to see some­thing like that here." Jesilyn Barnes Sophmore 

"I want nothing for myself. I want a beach for my roommate, and I• think they should finish what they started: North Dining Hall. and the new dorms." 
Anne Hickey Freshman 

"We'd like to see some kind of fine arts building, with a large auditorium. exclusively for the fine arts. Washington Hall Is nice, but we have to share it with other departments. and it's just too small to meet the needs of this campus." 
Siiri Scott, Nancy O'Connor Freshman, Junior 

"Besides improving the arts facilities here, like making studios where people can work, I really don't know what we need. I think that with the renovation of La Fortune, there is ample space for other student activities. Actually, what we could really use, is an underground tunnel from Holy Cross Hall to the rest of campus." 
Mark Bellafante Freshman 

"How about building an indoor soccer arena. And we definitely need a 24-hour study lounge. Why did they remove the hill by the War Memorial? I don't know, maybe they're going to plant com or something." 
Jim Fitzgerald 
Freshman 



"I think that they should build more athletic facilities for non­varsity athletes, especially bas­ketball courts. There are some now, but every time there's an event at the ACC, they just close the whole building, so we can't play there. As far as the construc­tion by the War Memorial goes, I think they're extending the Niewland Science Building for labs and offices." 
Mike Basile Junior 


page 9 The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
The Squash Club will practice tonight Men's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip 
will be Sunday, February 28 from 12-4 p.m. All to Lake Forest tomorrow. Tne bus leaves at 1
at 7 p.m. at JA~C Courts 1 and 2. All players 
students and faculty members are invited to
should remember to bring $10 to cover expenses p.m. and returns at 1 a.m. (after game). Cost 
play. There is a $5 entry fee. Any questions, is $17, $15 for club members. -The Observer
for the March 5 white ball match at Michigan. 
call Mike at 1962. -The Observer 
-The Observer see BRIEFS, page 11 
Tile a.-wrNotnt Deme office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· -.t c.m., ~cl_.fted ectw.tl.tng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a.-wrSaint Mery's offlce, located on the third ft()()( of ~Collge Cent.-, accepts clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next~ clualftedala 3 p.m. All clualfleda muat 
be pniPMI, elthef In pen10n Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five cNrw:tenl per day. 



Classifieds 
IF YOU FOUND A CAMERA AT JPW,  
NOTICES  IT'S MY MOTHER'S. PLEASE RETURN AT LEAST THE FILM. 419 ST.ED'S (£2742). THANKS.  TICKETS  CLASS OF 1990 SOPHOMORE MOVIE ·NIGHT AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA FEBRUARY 25 (THURSDAY) GOOD  THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME 111111 Deadline lor applications to the Russia­Scandinavia summer study program is  Today Is Mary, billhdayllllllllllll  Mary's  21sl  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n·2724 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY.  LOST WOMEN'S GOLD WRISTWATCH WITH  I WANT YOU TO SELL ME EITHER 2 VANDERBILT OR 2 MARQUETTE TICK­ MORNING VIETNAM SHOOT TO KILL HOPE & GLORY TICKETS IN CLASS OFFICE WED(3:30-5:30),THU(2:30-4)  March 15. Enjoy Russia and Scandinavia while earning three credits II For more inlormalion and an application, call David  BAND, BEER, AND BRIDGET'S The Grtnd and  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287~82 TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949  SQUARE FACE DURING JPW pleaae call x3872 or x1581 If found  ETS. CAll MARC AT 268-7105. THANK YOU Hey ya'lll 4 gorgeous blondes lrom Van­derbilt are still coming up lor the game II We'll trade one of them lor TICKETS to the game, or we'll pay BIG MONEY  I need 2 (two) Vanderbuilt tickets. Call Kate x4060. (By lhe way, my roommate gives sexual lavors) But only for the tickets.  at x1155. BRAZILIAN CARNIVAL ••• BRAZILIAN CARNIVAL ··LIVE SALSA BAND -SAT. FEBUARY 27 AT THEODORES  .90 Molaono Thurs. 6-9 HAPPY BIRTHDAYIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Mary, Maryl """lrom the Campus View girls···  
for them. Call Pat at2n·7571 NOW. GO  PLUS FREE DANCE LESSONS PRO­ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER 233·7009.  CALL  WANTED  VOCE GO I NEED 3 MARQUETTE  GA'S.  CALL  VIDED BY THE BALLROOM DANCE CLUB TONIGHT AT THEODORES FROM 6 -7:30 P.M.  Mary-------HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAYIII-­FROM Mi88y, Carol, & Susan. ..  
ADOPTION: loving couple, phyalclen and paychologlat, deeply wlaheo to ldopt n-born. Welcoming wonn lam· lly, love. opportunltleal Expenaea paid. legal. conlldentlel. Coli Ellie ond Alon collect 212·724·7942. Get ready lor Spring Break by selling unwanted class books lor $$$ at Pan­dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off ND Ave) Open 7 days! week 10-5:30. TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 2n. 5014 WORDPROCESSING'TYPING. CALL PAT 234-5526. Need R1de to NEW YORK CITY..Athe near vicinity lor SPRING BREAKtrn::an leave any day. Will share expenses. Please call Mi88y 271-0868  Need Riders & dflvers to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1106 evenings. Sponsored by the I. U Club of Notre Dame. OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Auotralla,Aala. All lleldo. $90()..2000 mo. Slght­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52· IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­ING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT· lNG INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM­PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: CAMPUS PAINTERS 2901 CENTRAL STREET EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 312-251-0151  MARY £3760 Need 2 Vanderbilt tickets. CALL 2659. I NEED 2 VANDY GA'S-JB-4681 Wanted MARQUETIE TICKETS Frank x1244 Desperately need Vanderbilt GA'S·Mike 1699 Need 2 or 4 Vandy tlx. Will pay large sums of money lor your good seats. Call Kevin al 272-0816. WANTED: 4 TIX TO VANDBLT FEB.27 FOR FATHER & 3 BOYS. 312·541-4595 AFTER 6, 312·537·2727, 9-5. FOR RENT  Things We Won't Miss VIII: South Band Bars (or lack thereol) GONG SHOW Auditions GONG SHOW Audition's for next month's Sophomore Class Gong Show to benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach Program will be held Mon Feb. 29 and Wed Mar. 2 lrom 6:30 -11 p.m. in Crowley Hall. Applicants should call !he Class Office at 239-5225 and leave their name and number. GONG SHOW Audlllona GONG SHOW The Return of MONARCH Tues. and Wed March 1 & 2 at CHIP's Come and party to the sounds ol classic  Screaming Mldgeto From Hell Screaming Mldgeta From Hell Screaming Mldgeto From Hell They'rrrrrrre Baaeaeaacklll The Little Guyo From Hadea -II you'ra over 5'5" get ouna herall Agent 001 (RJG) A second with Mr. Potato Head in Dallas! CONGRATULA TIONSII Here's to more great things to comet Agent 002 BLOODY ENGLISH Watch Outll Molly Hyland is going to London I CONGRATULATIONSII Your Favorite Lewisite  KATHLEEN MCGOWAN, CON· GRATULATIONS ON MAKING RA. LEWIS HALL WILL NEVER BE LOVE, YOUR CHAMPAGNE CHUM. 00 SOMETHING FOR LENT WOMEN'S CARE CENTER NEEDS YOUR HELP PHONE·A-THON 6:30·9:30 TONIGHT 2nd FL. ADMIN BLD SUPPORTS ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION MR CARR, I "couldn't go a week with­oul"...saying hi. Jan, This one's for you! Your a VERY SPECIAL girl and I'm REALLY glad thai I "played with my phonell" --H.APPY BELATED BIRTHDAYI-­Iove MaH ...........H~Y'JOEY'B·.-·&J'DA·ve··M~i··········  
LOST/FOUND REWARD IIIII REWARD IIIII LOST. one small GOLDFISH; she was very special to me ~my one true fnend. answers to ·GooD MORNING, FARLEY· it lound,  Wanted: 4 lun people Anyone looking lor a ride lo anywhere in Florida during Spring Break call Jim £4065 GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd  FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 268-0955-255­3684 4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR· HOOD.475 MO. CALL 2n­9097.0THERS AVAILABLE  rock! PLEASE TAKE ME TO NYC SPREAK.2685 DY I need 2 or 4 Vandy GA'a Please Call Nancy x4126  FOR  SENIOR FORMALlll SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALlll GET A CATE NOW GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW SENIOR FORMALIII  Jus! wanted to wish two of my favorlle Drummers HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAYII Here's to Stompln', Flappin' & Rappin' tonighl at Senior Barl Love always, Mom.  
please call Brennan at 2158. no ques­ like a ride any day you're going. Shared  SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS  SENIOR FORMALIII  HAPPY BIRTHDAY EDI Have a fun lime  
tiOns asked -B.M HARVATH IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ· lNG 11111111111111111111111111111111111111 without my  expenses. Call Missy 271-0866 or leave message wtoommate. I Need 2 or 4 Vandy GA'o Pleaoe call Nancy x4128 Need ride ·Chicago -226 2660 ............................... ····························· RIDE NEEDED to Rochester,NY Thr. 311 0 Aher 11 am Call Bill £3467  2 rooma remaining, N.D. Ave.; 255-5652 evanlnga PERSONALS CPA. ..CPA.. CPA.. CPA...CPA...  Dave Stolpman, WHY ARE YOU IGNOR­ING ME? Orange gloves do the triCk Dude D. You're very welcome Who are you? Joy  SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR TWO. Q:WHY IS A TICKET CALLED A BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHY! SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALlll  tonight and drink one for me -but remem· bar lhe best is yet to come. Hai>Py'22'1 Love Always Laurie ROB HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY WISH BIP A HAPPY BIRTHDAY AT  
brown leather gloves lleh in 120 O'Shag  CPA...CPA.. CPA .. It's on Its way...  £1157  
on that cold Wednesday 10th 2:00pm. lllound, please call £1763 soonlllllllllllll ................... LOST··A HewleH Packard calculator. II you've round one please call Bill at x­1620. REWARD FOR LOST GOLD BRACELET(round).IT WAS LOST ON TUESDAY FEB 16, AND A GOLD HEART SHOULD BE ATIACHED TO IT. TO MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE, A PRESENT FROM MY BOYFRIEND. IP FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4178. THANK YOU Found: some chick's gla88es on the path up from the GroHo to the Ad Building. You're myopic and probably can't read !his. bul If you slill want them, they've got scratched lenses, a clear round frame, and seriously need some !ape lo hold lhem together. Call 3204 or 3206 and ask lor Bill, Dave, or Mall '"The Beast" any time th1s weekend to claim (or stop by 33Z'334 Holy X Hall). TO THE PERSON WHO INADVER­ RIDERS NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR VICINITY SPRING BREAK LEEANN 284-4455 WANTED Ride lor 2to STING CONCERT in Chicago on Sunday Call Staph 4036 Help! I Need a ride to and lrom St.Louis lor Spring Break. Will share expenses. Call Chris at x 1145 Ride needed to Ft. Laud. Will pay $$$ Call Paul x3522 DON'T FORGET YOUR TICKETS FOR PURLIEI NEED RIDE to and from Greencastle lo Depauw lor weekend ol Feb. 27. Will share driving and expenses. HELPII x1155 -David.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. "CC", "FH", FISH, WHATEVER THEY CALL YOU -HOW ABOUT MY FAVOR­ITE PW CHICK ?I HAPPY BDAY I I KNOW ITS NOT FLOWERS BUT CLOSE ENOUGH. HAVE A GREAT 21 Ill Loot Chance For Spring Break '681 Limited apace ramalna at South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal· ton Beach and Steamboat. Colorado lor okllng. Hurry, Call Sunchaae Tours toll free 1..fl00.321·5911 lor raaerva· llano and lnlonnatlon TODAY. Credit carda accepted. SMC FROSH come join us lor pizza  Ay, ay, ay, ay, Woody's got a woodylll! Ay, ay, ay, ay, Woody's got a woodyllll Hey 14923 Brentwood-You're one lenexa woman I won't let get away. Re­member. Rockhurst men always gel their girl. Watch the personals. MONTY Hat-trick Hat-trick Hat-trtck Remember that little deal we made? -God WE MADE IT MIKEll NOW LET'S CELEBRATE THAT BIRTHDAY AND A GREAT YEAR I LOVE YA, PIG To the girl I see in the South Dining Hall everyday with the blond curly hair and the red ski jacket, whose name I think is mimi. i would Iovato meet you-reply here. D.J. . ConGRANTulations Mary Barger We knew you could do it love You I Gretchen, Lisa & Sarah  SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII BID SALES MARCH 1,2&3 GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWlll GET A DATE NOWlll ································································ Elizabeth: play with passion--light up those strings. Love, Donald Duck. See·M~d~;;;~~~~ii~Eii~~b;;it;'(l~;;;~;;·~~ Monsieur Cello, together, at once, TONIGHT at 7:30 in the Snits's Annan­berg Auditorium. As an added bonus, confer wilh the distinguished members olthe Elizabeth Gerrish fan club. All this can be yours free, If you act now/ ............................. To the GIRL I c everywhere on campus who's Irish eyes are always smiling· yWHEN R U GOING TO ASK ME TO THE ST. PAT'S BALL 88'??? -A young Irish lad ..............\.,.............................................  ..................... James Patrick is 22 loday, wish him a "HAPPY BIRTHDAY" at £1157 or stop in Alumni and personally wish him .......... HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY JIM IIIII IIIII Congralulat10ns to MATI SLAUGHTER as The Observer wins lhree ol !he last four days of Name !hal Lunchtime Gold The dynasty conUnues NEED A RIDE TO SAN ANTONIO TX FOR SPRING BREAK HELP CALL T.J. AT 2053 LATE EVENING TO THE GUY IN THE GREEN SWEATER IN LAFORTUNE TUESDAY NIGHT, I THOUGHT YOU WERE COOL UNTIL I SAW YOU DRINKING THAT COKE. GET A CLUE, JUST SAY NOIII ..............•...................................... COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID­SUPPORT THE BOYCOTIII BAND, BEER. AND BRIDGET'S  
TANTLY PICKED UP OR FOUND  Thurs 25 After TOP GUN (9PM) IN HAG­ A STEAK DINNER  .90 MOLSONS  
MY BLUE VUARNET SUNGLASSES AT CAREER & PLACEMENT PLEASE RETURN THEM TO KATIE AT CAREER & PLACEMENT OR PLEASE CAU SEAN £2265 OR  AAJAX NEW YORK·Spring Break. Ride needed. Call Missy 271·0668.""""••••  GAR FREE TOP GUN THURS 25 (7PM) CARROLL HALL $1 SPONSORED BY SMC FROSH CLASS.  WAKE UP, ALUMNI! The dance of the year is but 1 0 days away. Get those bodacious dates soon. Alumni wakes up March 5.  will be provided lor 1 0% of those who participate in the Hunger Banquet spon­sored by lhe World Hunger Coalition on Thursday February 25 at5pm at the CSC. Proportional to world lood distribution,  AND THE GRIND THURS,II-11  
£2283 ·NO QUESTIONS ASKED SPRING BREAK WON'T BE THE SAME  YO BIP  TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING .. .ISN'T  35% ot the participants will eat a meal ol soup and rice and the rest of us will  Brtdgal'o l'rlllnlo The Grtnd  ...  
WITHOUT THEM I Ifill  FOR SALE  Here II is IIIII ••••a personal just lor you···· Oh, by the way, HAPPY "22" BIRTHDAY  VERY GOOD. SMC Addiction Week Feb. 29-Mar. 3 STAY TUNED FOR DETAILS  eat a typical Third World dinner of rice and bread. Like In real lile, people's prosperity altha Banquet will depend on  ond .90 Molaono Tllurs, 11-11  
LOST: PURPLE AMETHYST EARRING  Gue88 Who???????  Get your dale now  the luck of the draw. Please come join  
1n l1brary £2n31  Audilorium.  Call  BETSY­ HELP I CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPAIN(> BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE  Clue: I love chocolate II  Get your dele today Don't mlao the SYR of the year PE'o Monte Clrlo Nlghll  us in this learning experience. SENIOR MEN  Bind et BRIDGET'o Tllurs, 11-11 .90 Molaono end The Grtnd  
LOST THURSDAY 211&88 2 KEYS ON  TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE  HAPPY BIRTHDAY BIP  MOST SENIOR WOMEN  
A STAR SHAPED PAPER CLIP NEED THEM BACK REAL BAD. 271-0758  WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI·  HAPPY BIRTHDAY BIP HAPPY BIRTHDAY BIP  MIRROR  MIRROR  ON  THE  WAU  ARE WILLING TO PAY FOR HALF  To the ugliest human being on earth-­ 
ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127  WHOS THE SEXIEST ONE OF AU?  STEVE  "LEWIS  STUD"  DONOVAN-­ 
One gold & pearl earring either in B-P, Grace, or somewhere in between.  AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A UTILE BETTER.  SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOP­ WHY ADRIANNE HOLMES OF COURSE. FROM YOUR LOVERMAN  THE GRIND TONIGHT AT BRIG IDS 7-9  DHappy 20th Blrthday···-------··------your bestlriend  
REWARDIII Call x1330. THANKSIII  HOMORES  SOPHOMORE  MOVIE  THE GRIND  
.....................  COMPLETE  PEAVEY  PA  SYSTEM .  NIGHT  Crazy.  ................................................................  What's Important...  
MISSING: WOMENS LONG BLACK WOOL TWEED COAT FROM SENIOR  IDEAL FOR CAMPUS BANDS. VERY REASONABLY PRICED. CALL MIKE  AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA FEB. 25-TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE  CB This personal is not for youlll Love  Happy Happy Birthday Birthday MARY­MARY 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21  Don'! beat me up tonighl  Thanx  
BAR LAST SAT  IT'S GOING TO BE A  289-6508  CLASS  OFFICE  All  WEEK-$3  and Kisses  
COLD WINTER WITHOUT IT. PLEASE  Vin. Thanks lor a great year. You're the  
CALL MARY 2335732 LOST: pa1r ol eyeglasses--brown case with inil1als DAL on back II lound call Dave at 2508  MUST SELL: TICKET TO TUCSONII $150. LEAVES CHICAGO 12 MARCH RETURNS 19 MARCH. CALL: MICHELE 2604.  MOLLY BURTCH A ELL MOLLY BURTCHAELL  TO MV,I never really got a chance to reveal mysell HELP Ill Secret admirer-PK YO SALMA HOW ABOUT SOME CHARLIE CHAN THIS WEEKEND?  basil Have a Happy Birthday and gel ready lor the weekend. I love you! Joelle P.S."Happy Birthday to me... " LA LA  Train Good luck In Bengals II you win, maybe the Rebels will take rt easy on the Heels In the rematch The Trilecta Man Downstairs  
FOR  SALE  IBANEZ  ROADMASTER  MOLLY BURTCHAELL  VIDEO PISCEM  Keep your chin up. You are still the best.  
LOST IN OSHAG: pair of red Kombi ski gloves Mom will kill me II I don't lind them. Save a life, call Tom at 4010  BASS $225 NEGOTIABLE 3388 TIM MCAT BOOKS: 11.1 OFF, 1714  HAVE A NICE DAY  I'll see you again when the stars falllrom the sky.-U2  We love you. Your Alumni buddies  Dude: Sclentlfic Fact  


Photo Courtesy of Suzanne Booker Sophomore Sean 0' Brien prepares for Bengal Bouts. Matches start Friday night. ­
Soviet ski jumpers'· absence causes stir 
JO 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta-The So­viet Union's two specialist ski jumpers went home without competing in the showpiece 90­meter event, an Olympic offi­cial said Wednesday. 
The two jumpers, Edward Soubotch and Mikhail Essine, left on an Aeroflot charter Mon­day after finishing 38th and 39th, respectively, in the 70­meter competition on Feb. 14. 
Their failure to appear at Tuesday's 90-meter event caused Olympic organizers to search for them, especially after another Soviet jumper in the Nordic combined event did not compete and two other Nor­dic team members failed to make the required three jumps. 
The mystery was solved Wednesday when Soviet offi­cials informed organizers that Soubotch and Essine flown home as scheduled after the 90­meter event was postponed from Saturday until Tuesday because of strong winds, said Olympic press officer Terry Bullick. 
She said the Soviets withdrew from the Nordic com-


Summer 
_, 


STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 

• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITTLE T E IN MICHIANA" 
bined 70-meter. team event be­cause one · jumper, Allar Levandi, was ill and the coach applied too late for a substitu­tion. 
Without three jumpers, the team had no chance of winning, so the two healthy athletes, Vassili Savine and Andrei Doundoukov, did not complete the required three jumps. 
It was the third time during these Games that athletes either abruptly left or their whereabouts were sketchy. 


The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and .Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Features Editor Assistant Arts Editor 
For further information contact Beth Healy Deadline 5 p.m. Today at The Observer (239-5303) 
Mount follows father's .path 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS-If your name is Mount and you live in Lebanon, Ind., you're expected to play basketbalL 
If your name is Rich Mount, you're also fighting inevitable comparisons with a famous fa­ther who is still regarded as one of the best players to come out of this basketball-crazy state. 
The younger Mount, a 6-foot­3 junior at Lebanon High School, already gets about 10 letters a week from major col­leges around the country. But with his 27-point scoring average, it's more than just family history that's drawing the attention. 
"Being Rick Mount's son has been a great deal of help, from the standpoint his father has taught him a lot about offensive basketball," Lebanon Coach Dave Carney says of Rich, already seen as one of the top candidates for Indiana Mr. Basketball next year. "But it's been tough for him at times be­cause people want to compare Rich with his father." 
Rich's grandfather, Pete Mount, led Lebanon to a runner-up finish in the 1943 state tournament and was con­sidered the school's greatest player of all time ... until Rick, Pete's son and Rich's father, came along. 
Rick Mount, of course, be­
came even more famous than 
Pete. He was Mr. Basketball in 
1966, the first high school ath­

lete pictured on the cover of 
Sports Illustrated and an All­
American at Purdue, where he 
led the Boilermakers to a 

runner-up finish to UCLA in the 
1969 NCAA tournament. 

Rick Mount played profes­
sional ball for five years and 
retired when his son, Rich, was 
five years old. He now works at a sporting goods store in Lafayette. 
"I saw him play in utah, but I was too young to remember much;'' says Rich, 18. 'I was maybe eight or nine when I realized how great he was. I thought it was pretty neat, having a dad like that is pretty cooL 
"I said if I worked at it, maybe I could be as good. The thing is, most people remem­ber him at Purdue more than in high schooL That's what they're comparing me with, and that's hard to compare." 
Rick Mount is the second leading scorer in Indiana high school history with 2,595 points and a 27.3 career average. In college, he was a two-time All­American and averaged 34.8 points a game for his career. 
Rich Mount has 1,353 points and a 21.8 career average 24.2 over the past two years, 27.8 this season and 29.4 over the past nine games. He hasn't said where he wants to play college balL Purdue, naturally, has shown a lot of interest. 
"He taught me to really work hard at everything," Rich says of the help he got from his fa­ther. "He said stick with it, and I got a lot out of it. We'd play at the park every evening for two hours. In the afternoons, I'll shoot an hour and a half. I end up playing five or six hours a day since I was in seventh grade." 
It was when Rich was in the eighth grade that he first got statewide attention, although it wasn't the kind of publicity he would have preferred. 
His father got him "red­shirted," held back a year so he could gain more maturity and experience. 
"I think it helped me," Rich says. "I don't talk about it much, it's been forgotten about 
HAPPY 21st Jer-Rus 
F DWI 
mostly. but it helped me a lot, mentally and physically. Men­tally, mostly. It made me men­tally toug~r. I don't know why, but I knew at that point I needed to be mentally toug­her." 
The Lebanon School Board voted to let Rich, an honor stu­dent, repeat the eighth grade. The Indiana High School Ath­letic Association, which has rigid eligibility regulations, has no jurisdiction at the junior high level, but the statewide publicity surrounding the Mount case later prompted the Lebanon board to ban the prac­tice. 
By that time, Rich was in high school, where he averaged 
17.1 points a game as a fresh­man and 21.5 as a sophomore. This year, besides the 27.8 average, he's rebounding about 3.5 per game and shoot­ing better than 50 perc_ent from the field and 90 percent from the foul line. He had a streak of 38 straight free throws, which ·was snapped last week. 
If he does become Mr. Bas­ketball next year, he would be the first one whose father also was a Mr. Basketball. 
"That's a dream for every kid in high school basketball. I'm working on that," the young Mount admits. "But what hap~ns is you go out and work hara and make yourself a better player and that (reward) comes later. You don't concentrate on Mr. Bas­ketball. You do things that help the team win, and if those other things come along, that's great." 
Going into the final game of the regular season Friday night, Lebanon has a 14-5 record. 


LAST CHANCE 
TO GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER For the 

( LIP-SYNC CONTEST 
~ Saturday, March 5 F 
$200 GRAND PRIZE!!! 
*Interested acts contact Maura x2745 or Mark x1184 by Monday, Feb. 29. Sponsored by SUB & Theodore's 


Thursday, February 25, 1988 
OU tops Kansas; Hoosiers beat UW 
IU 84, Wise. 74
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla.-Stacey MADISON, Wis. -Dean Gar­King scored 22 points Wednes­rett scored 22 points and Keith day night, including six in a Smart added 19 but Indiana had 
row during a crucial stage late to hold off a late Wisconsin in the game, as fourth-ranked 
surge as the Hoosiers gained ' Oklahoma held off Kansas, 95-an 84-74 victory in Big Ten bas­
87, in Big Eight Conference ketball Wednesday night. basketball. The Hoosiers, 8-6 in the BigThe victory came despite a Ten and 16-8 overall, enjoyed a 30-point performance by 50-33 lead early in the second Kansas forward Danny Man­half before the Badgers, 3-10 in ning, who became the Big conference and 9-14 overall,
Eight's career scoring leader. came back behind Tom Manning, who now has 2,665 Molaski. points, eclipsed the mark of Molaski scored 18 of his 21 
2,661 previously held by points in the second half to lead Wayman Tisdale of Oklahoma. the Wisconsin rally, and he hit 
Oklahoma, winner of 11 
a short jumper to make it 50-35. The men's and women's fencing teams head Into ament. Scott Brutacao previews
straight, improved to 25-2 over­
Danny Jones, who also scored this weekend's Great Lakes Region fencing tourn-below.all and 10-1 in the conference. 21 points for Wisconsin, hit two Kansas dropped to 17-10 and 6-baskets to bring Wisconsin to 
5. within 50-39. 





Sports Briefs 
18th-ranked North Carolina State upset fifth-ranked Duke Wednesday night 89-78. Charles Shackleford led the Wolfpack with 23 points and Vinny Del Negro added 16. In other college basketball action, Harry Bell scored 21 points to lead Valparaiso over Marquette 70-66. -Associated Press 
The Water Polo team will practice tonight at 8:30 
p.m. at Rolfs. All those interested in playing at the Iowa Tournament in are expected to attend. Any questions, call Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Observer 
The Women's Soccer Club will participate in the Saint Mary's Indoor Tournament Saturday. Any questions, call Susan at 4541. -The Observer 
The women's track team is beginning practice for the outdoor season. Anyone interested in participating should show up at the JACC Fieldhouse today or tomorrow at 4 p.m. or call Amy Jo at 2533 or Linda at 2485. -The Observer 
SMC softball will have a meeting Monday at 4 p.m. Come to Angela and be prepared to work out. -The Obser­ver 
Crew members can pick up more tickets in room 202 Sorin. -The Observer 
SMC intramural volleyball forms are now available at AAF front desk. Forms are due March 2. -The Observer 
Harlem Globetrotters tickets for tomorrow night's appearance are available at the JACC. Chair seats are $10 and bleacher tickets are $8.50. -The Observer 
............................... 
~~..............................~ 
I ~ ~ 
~ I 
~ Tonight Movie 9:30-1:00 ~ ~ The Shining ~ ~ with Jack Nicholson ~ ~ starts at 9:30, free admission ~ 
~ Friday 9:30-2:00 ;i Campus DJ's Bryan Rao ..: ~ and Marty Crowe will ~ ~ play your favorites, so ~ ~ come on up and DANCE! ~ 
I Saturday 9:30-2:00 ~ ~ ISO event-check it out ~ 
Fencers to defend G L titles 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO from the surrounding region 9) and Brenda Leiser (30-12), Sports Writer will be from the NCAA Midwest and freshman Lynn Kadri (32­
Regionals, in which Notre 7). 
It's time for the real thing. Dame will also compete. "We are going to have a 
The 1988 postseason is finally The women fencers have also tough time defending our upon the varsity fencing team, experienced success at the title," said Auriol. "Wayne and this weekend the Irish Great Lakes in the past, win­State is very talented, and we squad will set its sights on the ning the last two Champion­won't have Molly. A positive is Great Lakes region, to partici­ships. However, the 17-2 wo­that Leiser and Kadri will be pate in a qualifying tourna­men will face stiff competition getting some good experience ment for the NCAA Champion­from their arch-rival Wayne fencing in this tournament." ships. State fencers, who beat the wo­The men, sending three fen­
All postseason fencing is ded­men in both home and away cers from each weapon, should icated to qualifying to the meets this year. have a good chance of qualify­NCAA Championships, held in "It's going to be a tough com­ing a good number of fencers Princeton, NJ. The winner of petition," said women's head to the NCAAs, and winning the the NCAAs is considered the coach and 1988 Olympic fen­meet. national champion, and the cing coach Yves Auriol. "It's In the foil division, senior team that has the best collec­going to be a different compe­Yehuda Kovacs (41-5) and tive performance will gain the tition, though. It's individual freshman Phil Leary (36-6) national title. and open. It's a different for­both have a good chance of 
The upcoming qualifier, the mat from what happened qualifying, and Derek Great Lakes Championships, before. We'll wait and see what Holeman (29-5) also is a will determine some of the fen­happens." legitimate possibility. cers who will be able to attend The women do not have the Notre Dame's sabre team is the NCAAs. numbers in their favor as the very young and talented, and 
The men's squad, coming off men do. Only one woman fen­all three potentially could a 24-1 (.960) season with its only cer qualifies to the NCAAs qualify. Freshman Leszek loss last weekend to Illinois, from the Great Lakes, one Nowosielski is having an out­has won the Great Lakes qualifies from the Big Ten, and standing season (24-0) and is Championships for the past three qualify from the Midwest hoping to win the Champion­four years. Its main competi­Regionals. ships. Sophomore Dan Yu (29­tion is Wayne State, who the The women also will be with­6) and freshman Chris Bauger Irish again defeated twice this out the services of senior fencer (20-5) both have optimistic year. Molly Sullivan, who is in hopes for a positive outcome. 
"The Great Lakes Champi­Europe participating in an in­The epee division is Notre onship is a key qualifier for the ternational meet. Dame's weakest, but still may NCAAs," said men's head co­Sullivan hopes to gain more qualify any of their three fen­ach Mike DeCicco. "I really points at the meet in order to cers. They are junior Todd think we should be able to win have enough points to qualify Griffee (31-11), senior Doug the title again this season." for the 1988 Olympic Games in Dudinski (35-9), and junior Ted 
At the Great Lakes, Notre Korea. Presently she has the Fay (29-10). Wayne State has a Dame is allowed to enter three fourth most points of any wo­talented epee squad and its fen­fencers in each of the foil, sabre man fencer in the nation, and cers will give the Irish their and epee divisions. The top the women's Olympic team main competition. three fencers in the tourna­takes the top five. "It's obviously going to be ment from each weapon will The women will be taking hard to qualify all of the men qualify for the NCAAs. sophomore Anne Barreda (47-fencers, because of the compe­
The rest of the qualifiers 4), juniors Kristin Kralicek (30-tition," said Auriol. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 
directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, 

Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M.
I Sunday Special 12:00-6:00 1 
Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
~ It's SUBS, SUBS, SUBS ~ 
Main Floor $6. Balcony $5 Tickets are available at Students & Semor C1t1zens $4 Washmgton Hall T1cket Office
I Build them how you like them I on W9d., Thurs .• Sun. only Weekdays Noon to 6 PM. MasterCard/Vis& orders 239-5957 
~ only $2.00 ~ 
~'''''''''''''''''''''''~ 
Nykanen sets Olympic record with third ski-jumping gold 
Associated Press It was little consolation to the Alpine medals at the Games, hapless Americans, though. but only its second gold. Pirmin 
CALGARY, Alberta-Matti With the Soviets gone, they Zurbriggen of Switzerland won Nykanen, the Flying Finn, finished last in the 10-team the men's downhill. Austria, soared to his third gold medal field. meanwhile, has only five Al­and became the first triple At the same time, the U.S. pine medals but three gold in 
jumping winner in Olympic his­Olympic Committee said it was men's combined and women's tory, while the Soviets were asking the help of George combined and super giant shut out for the first time Wed­Steinbrenner, hoping he could slalom. nesday at the Winter Olympics. do the same thing with the U.S. Defending gold medalist 
Olympic team that he did as Debbie Armstrong of Seattle Already an unprecedented owner of the New York finished 13th, one spot behind winner of the 90-and 70-meter Yankees. Steinbrenner, a Diann Roffe of Williamson, individual events, Nykanen USOC member, will be head of N.Y. added the third gold when Fin­a panel to review the U.S. ef­West Germany held onto its 
The Notre Dame women's swim team will participate In 
land won the new 90-meter fort. big lead after the jumping to 
weekend's Midwest Independent Championships in Chicago. Greg team event. Yugoslavia won "We can do better," win the Nordic combined team the silver and Norway won the Steinbrenner said. "We should medal, despite finishing eighth bronze. do better. The American public in the cross-country relay race
Women's swim team 
Since 1964, when ski jumping deserves the very best we can Wednesday. Switzerland, with was split into two events, no give 
them." the fastest relay time, won the jumper had won them both. In silver, and Austria claimed the 

heads to Mid. Ind. 
1984, Nykanen won the 90-bronze. 
meter event and took silver at The Soviets fell behind when By GREG GUFFEY The women finally got some 70. one team member got sick and of the breaks to go their way couldn't jump Wednesday. The 
Sports Writer Vreni Schneider won the gold at the MCC meet. The Irish medal in the giant slalom, other two Soviets didn't even After a season of peaks and rallied from a 11-point deficit giving Switzerland a victory in The Soviets still lead the bother to take all their jumps,valleys, the women's swim­after the first day of competi­its battle for Olympic Alpine medal standings with 22, in­and they pulled out of the event ming team has picked the right tion to down the Aces 634-573 supremacy with Austria. cluding eight golds. The East Wednesday.time to be on an upswing. for the title. Germans have 17 medals, West Germany is a two-time The women put everything That close win is more im­"I'm going to phone home seven golds, while the United world champion in this event, 
together last weekend in win­portant than it seems for the and say hi to everybody," States is stuck at four medals, which is new to the Olympics. ning the Midwestern Collegiate Irish. At 9-7, the Irish record Schneider said. including the golds of figure In a sport that's fast becom­Conference Championships in may not appear impressive, The gold rush East was skater Brian Boitano and speed ing a battle of initials, B&B Evansville and hope that suc­but four of those losses have bound to get going again soon, skater Bonnie Blair. succeeded T&D as Olympic ice cess and effort carries over to been by 12 points or less, a very though. Schneider, a slight favorite, dancing champions. B&B are this weekend's Midwest Inde­small margin in collegiate Katarina Witt of East Ger­took advantage of a fall by Natalia Bestemianova and pendent Championships in swimming. many took the first compulsory first-run leader Blanca Fer­Andrei Bukin of the Soviet Chicago. The Irish finished steps in her own battle against nandez Ochoa of Spain to win Union, and T&D are the incom­sixth in last year's meet. "The women have gotten American Debi Thomas in fig­with a two-run time of 2 parable Jayne Torvill and 
The men's squad has the stronger as a unit," Welsh said. ure skating and the Soviets' minutes, 6.49 seconds. Christopher Dean. week off before playing host to "Every time we came out of powerful women's cross­Schneider was nearly a second T&D turned pro after win­the Midwest Independent those close meets, their char­country ski team gets back into ahead of Christa Kinshofer ning the 1984 gold medal, and Championships next weekend acter developed and we said, action on Thursday. Guetlein of West Germany, 27-B&B haven't been beaten at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The 'one of these days' and here it year-old veteran who won a sil­since. 
men also won the MCC meet, is." ver slalom medal in 1980. "When we won second place 
But Wednesday was a day of 

easily outdistancing embarrassment for the Switzerland's Maria Walliser in Sarajevo, we were very
Evansville. With the confidence gained Soviets. Their Nordic com­won the bronze. happy and pleased we got Irish coach Tim Welsh wel­late in the season and the talent "I was hoping for a chance recognized by the public," Be­
bined team, heavily favored for ~. comes the chance for the men Welsh has assembled, a better a medal, pulled out of the com­in the first three (races), and stemianova said, tears running to rest before the next champi­showing may be in the cards 
petition after finishing last in I am overwhelmed with my down her cheeks after winning
onship meet. for the women in Chicago. 
the ski jumping portion the day success," Schneider said. Tuesday. "But today was the 
"This is a much-needed week "This is a much better team before. That gave Switzerland nine happiest day of my life." 
off from competition and this than the record might lead one team requires more rest," to believe," Welsh said. "We Welsh said. "The men have are ambitious and excited been a spirited, very deep team about this year's meet and we and their commitment to com­want to move up dramatically. pleting the season with pride is I think we have momentum and incredible." confidence to do it." 
~*****************~ 
t Leap into the~ £ 
Record Books t 


on Leap Day'', 
'*Feb. 29 .. 
Be a part of Notre Dame's _. 
attempt to set the « intercollegiate record for 

LEAP FROG 
4:30 pm South Quad -« Registration begins at 4:00 ._ in front of O'Shag.
.This kicks off an entire week of events to "celebrate St. Patrick's Day a wee-bit
I

.... early" Sponsored by SUB,t Classes of '89, '90, '91 • 
-~¥_._¥··············-· 
STUDENT ESCAPES FROM INSTITUTION! 
University authorities suspect Ft. Lauderdale, but he may have fled to any of these Midway destinations: 
MIDWAY AIRLINES"  MIDWAY CONNECTION"  
Atlanta  Minneapolis/St. Paul  Benton Harbor  
Boston  Nassau  Bloomington/Normal  
Chicago (Midway)  New Orleans  Champaign/Urbana  
Cleveland  New York (LaGuardia)  Dubuque  
Columbus  Omaha  Elkhart  
Dallas/Ft. Worth  Orlando  Grand Rapids  
Denver  Philadelphia  Green Bay  
Des Moines  Phoenix  Indianapolis  
Detroit  Pittsburgh (EH. 3/1/88)  Madison  
Ft. Lauderdale  St. Croix  Muskegon  
Ft. Myers  St. Thomas  Peoria  
Indianapolis  Tampa  South Bend  
Kansas City  Washington, DC (National)  Springfield,ll  
las Vegas  West Palm Beach  Traverse City  
Miami  Waterloo  

Sporting flip-flops and sunglasses, the student was last seen turning cartwheels through the airport, where he caught the Midway Connection• to convenient Chicago Midway Airport. Once in Chicago, he is believed to have hopped a quick, hassle-free flight to another Midway destination. 
Campus officials attribute his departure to an early case of spring break, as numerous faculty members recall hearing Jimmy Buffet coming from his walkman. 
To plan an escape of your own, call1-800-621-5700, or call your travel agent. 
Midwa Connection· 
c 1988 M•dw<ly A•rhnc5o.lnc 





Men's tennis sweeps doubles to upset Boilermakers 6-3 
By PAT KEARNS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team swept all three doubles matches to upset Purdue 6-3 Wednesday at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. The win came after three straight losses for the Irish, and raised their record to 6-3 for the year. 
The meet began with each team taking three singles matches. 
Notre Dame's number-one singles player Brian Kalbas ran into the tough serve and volley game of Purdue's Jim Gray, who won their match 6-3, 6-3. 
But the Irish showed some depth against Purdue. Mike Wallace scored an impressive 6-4, 6-4 victory over Jim Schumacher in number-two singles, Dan Walsh beat John Winegardner 7-6, 7-6 to remain undefeated (9-0) in his number­four singles spot, and freshman Paul Odland pulled out an in­spiring 7-5, 5-7, 6-1 victory over Brian Ritz at sixth singles. 
Then in doubles action, the Irish took all three matches in straight sets. The teams of Dave Reiter and Mike Wallace, Brian Kalbas and Ryan Wenger, and Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs all posted straight­set wins to chalk up the victory. 
After the meet, Irish tennis coach Bob Bayliss expressed both excitement and surprise after defeating the team that had beaten the Irish 7-5 in matches last semester. 
"On paper we didn't figure 
to win this match," said Bayliss. "They were a little better than us last fall." 
Bayliss credited the victory to his players' resolve to win and to the availability of the Eck Tennis Pavillion for daily practices during the winter. 
"I give the players credit for not getting down on themselves after losing three in a row," said Bayliss. "We needed this one. 
"Mike Wallace stepped in and had a very big win for us. Dan Walsh is still undefeated, and Paul Odland won in his second start of the year. I think we returned serve well today." 
Bayliss also handed out com­pliments to the players he has been shuffling in and out of the starting lineup because to in­juries. 
"Our lower guys--Dave Reiter, Paul Daggs, David Kuhlman, Paul Odland, and Sean O'Brien--have been very good," said Bayliss. "It's tough
coming out and not knowing whether you're going to start or not, and they've been very patient," said Bayliss. 
The Irish will try to pull off another upset this afternoon when favored Colorado (2-0) arrives at the Eck Tennis Pavillion at 3 p.m. 
"They beat Purdue 5-4 last year, so we know they're going to be tough," Bayliss said. 


ND '61 

Domestic and imported winPs heers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
I ;·2'1 NOHTJt IHONWOO[) DR. 50l1Tt1 J}f.ND. IN 4(iu.'J~ 

Friday, Feb. 26th 8 P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
Tlcket;s $10.00, Students $5.00 
ll.vallable at the Box Office 
£ To charge by -... 284-4626

a.~ ~Visa, ~~ter;d accept~ll/1 Saint Mary:s Colkg~
NOTRE OAME·INOIANA 

I~! l~J Ht,hk.-•dlo~mwn 
lntdlo,..nu·llnlu'f 
l<l72 l'llll'w.·,,.,lan•••·no:,.l .~ 111!,• l nllt•d \11~'"' I'IMh p..,,IIJ,·nt "I ~U,Ifl~ 

Ifthe press didn't tell us,who vw:>uld? 
fttl_tt't(lrlnlt"dtnltlfmlllttllllllllhcnllt·••tJirt•t•prt·,,andhcl\\ 
ilf!ntiCCh\IIUfrlj!hl•.llflildt...;U\,am rn:rprc"'''\IC.l'llllh('Flr\1 
\mrndmrntfcntcr<~l 1-14(141-5-ll·lhfMl 
Nation Soviet Union East Germany Switzerland Austria Finland West Germany Netherlands Norway Sweden United States Canada Czechoslovakia France Yugoslavia Italy Japan 
Gold Silver 8 8 7 6 2 5 3 3 4 0 2 2 1 2 0 3 3 0 2 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 Bronze Total 6 22 4 17 3 10 2 8 2 6 1 5 2 5 2 5 1 4 1 4 3 4 2 3 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 
I 

Source: Associated Press 
Cubs move closer to night baseball 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-For 72 seasons, day baseball and the Chicago Cubs have been synonymous at Wrigley Field. 
The Cubs are the last of the big league teams to end their day when the sun goes down. 
But if Thursday's City Coun­cil vote goes as its supporters expect, one of baseball's longest traditions will come to an end in six weeks when the 73rd season begins. 
"Yeah ! all right ! terrific ! , " said Joanne Budka, a lights advocate who can hear the crack of the bat at her home in Wrigley Field's shadow. "Night baseball is exciting. The Cubs need that." 
But many residents com­plain that what's good for the Cubs is not necessarily good for the neighborhood. 
They say night games in Wrigleyville, the neighborhood around the park, will mean rowdy fans pouring out of bars in the wee hours. Parking will be limited for residents return­ing home from work, and lawns and streets will be littered. 
"I'll move out," Noreen Gleeson, 27, said Wednesday. "It will ruin the neighbor­hood." 
A plan endorsed by Mayor Eugene Sawyer and aggres­sively pursued by the Tribune Co., owner of the Cubs, would allow eight night games during 



The Observer 
Typesetting Service is accepting applications for the following positions: 
CONTROLLER DORM REPRESENTATIVES ACCOUNTS MANAGER ACCOUNTS PAYABLE I RECEIVABLE CLERK 
Applications should include a personal statement and brief resume. Deadline for applications is Friday, February 26. 
For further information contact 
-Chris Hasbrook 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
LYMPIC MEDALS TABLE 
the 1988 season and 18 the fol­
lowing years until 2002. 
The City Council delayed a 
vote on the issue Wednesday, 
but a special meeting was 
scheduled for Thursday and 
supporters say they have the 
votes to see it through. 
Some aldermen have ac­
cused Sawyer and his council 
allies of fashioning a plan that 
has few benefits for 
Wrigleyville residents. Alder­
man Bernard Hansen, whose 
ward includes the ballpark, 
says he may go to court to 
prevent lights. 
During a council committee 
vote this week, Paul Kendall, 
a fervent opponent of night 
games, issued this warning: "I 
think you will find some real 
problems when fans start com­
ing . . . especially if they are 
wearing Cubs hats. They will 
be marked." 
Wrigley Field, named 
Weeghman Park when it was 
built in 1914, is the only major 
league ballpark without lights. 
It is bordered by small apart­
ment houses behind the out­
field. Some buildings are so 
close that residents can open a 
lounge chair on roofs and watch 
the games for free. 
During batting practice, 
youngsters dodge traffic on 
Waveland and Sheffield 
avenues to shag balls that clear 
the fence. 
The Cubs' inabilitv to olav home games after dark put Wrigley Field in danger of losing National League playoff games and the World Series, if the Cubs ever got that far, be­cause of baseball's commit­ments to television networks. 
Gleeson says she loves the Cubs, but her affection fades a bit when she's asked about night games. 
"I'll have drunks staggering on the sidewalk from 10 in the evening until2 in the morning," she said. "I've always been able to deal with the parking problems during the day, but night games, they'll bring the worst element into the neigh­borhood.'' 
The Cubs have threatened to move to the suburbs or outside Illinois if lights are not erected. 
"You're not going to get the same type of crowd that comes to Wrigley Field now. You're not going to get the families," she said. 

~
r-1 

Chris Geneser has been a success from the start gee features Geneser and his roommate and for the Notre Dame wrestling team. Steve Megar-teammate Jerry Durso below. 
Durso, Geneser 

Roommates share NCAA goal 
By STEVE MEGARGEE building the program, and that "I kind of like working with Sports Writer it wasn't just a coach talking. the freshmen," Geneser said. "It's easier having someone "It's an advantage for them At first glance, Jerry Durso you live with on the team," that we didn't have, so I figure and Chris Geneser have about Durso continued. "Chris was a the more they have, the better. as much in common as Mutt little more reserved when we It's just going to put them that and Jeff. first came here, and I was kind far ahead from where I was as 
Geneser comes from Iowa, of loud, and we've both gotten a freshman, plus I learn stuff while Durso hails from New more like each other." from them." Jersey. Durso always has been Durso and Geneser also have McCann is quick to praise outgoing, and Geneser was the both enjoyed an extraordinary Durso, the team's co-captain quiet type upon entering col­amount of success. Durso had with senior Ron Wisnieski, and lege. Geneser is almost six feet a 63-15 record in his first two Geneser for helping out a stan­tall, while Durso stands at 5-5. years, and he currently is dout freshman class that in­
But the common dreams of ranked fourth in the country's cludes Mark Gerardi, Todd establishing the Notre Dame 134-pound division. Geneser, Layton and Todd Tomazic. wrestling program and becom­with a combined record of 56-20 "Chris has been a laid-back ing All-Americans has made in his first two years, is ranked kid, but now he's opening up the two Notre Dame wrestlers eighth among the country's 177-and showing leadership," said and Flanner Hall roommates pounders. the fourth-year Irish coach. become close friends. But neither one of them has "Jerry's a team leader as far 
"We met the summer before reached his goal of being an as by example and taking the our freshman year and talked All-American. Durso was in­bull by the horns and telling at a tournament," said the 177-jured at Regionals his fresh­kids like the Gerardis and pound Geneser: "When we got man year, then lost early the Laytons their potential be­to school, we were both living NCAA Championships last cause he's been through it in Flanner and we've been year. Geneser swept through before. roommates the last two years. the Regionals last year, but a "This year they're both na­We just take out our frustra­knee infection kept him from tionally ranked and both have tions on our other roommates." competing in the NCAA's. excellent chances of placing 
In fact, Notre Dame's sig­"Our freshman year, we nationally," McCann contin­
ning of Geneser, a high school wanted to do it, but we realized ued. "They're doing what 
All-American, helped convince we had time left," said they're capable of, and they're 
Durso to follow suit. Geneser. "Now, that time is right on schedule. I'll be disap­
"When I first heard from here." pointed if they don't place at 
Notre Dame, what I heard was The two juniors have been on the NCAA's and be All­
just from Coach (Fran) their own since joining the Americans. 
McCann," said the 134-pound Notre Dame team. Since If they don't achieve that 
Durso. "By the time I came out McCann was just building the goal this year, McCann won't 
on the trip, they'd already program, the Irish had no star be the only one disappointed. 
signed Chris and a couple of upperclassmen to lead them "We've got the facilities and 
others, and that made me when they were freshmen. a coaching staff as good as any 
realize they were serious about Now, as juniors they realize the in the country," Durso said. 
importance of working with the "You can't goals so high you 
team's freshmen and leading can't reach them, but you've
Trump to 

by example. got to know what you're capa­"When we were freshmen, it ble of and not sell yourself
host fight 

was hard because we were short. We have a month before 
Associated Press leaders for the upperclassmen nationals, and our goal is to be 
who'd been here," said All-Americans." 
LAWRENCE TOWNSHIP, Geneser. "Giving orders to a Notre Dame next faces Mar­N.J.-The heavyweight title senior seemed kind of weird. quette on the road Saturday. fight between undisputed champion Mike Tyson and Mi­chael Spinks will be held in At­lantic City, N.J., on June 27, Donald Trump said Wednesday in announcing that he had won the bidding to host the bout. 
Trump told one reporter that he would pay $11 million, which would be a record, surpassing the $7 million Caesars World paid for the middleweight title fight between Marvelous Mar­vin Hagler and Sugar Ray Leonard last April in Las Vegas, Nev. 
"We have a commitment for 
the fight on June 27. I am 
looking forward to it," said 
Trump, a New York real estate 
magnate and hotel owner. 
The Observer /Trey Raymond 

"The two football guys really believe in for some rea­

Steal 
son," Murphy continued.
continued from page 16 
"They're like an atomic bomb steal a base, they were 3-23. waiting to explode and come 
"We have good team speed, into their own." and we'll use it to its nth Pitching is the most glaring degree," Murphy continued. question for the Irish going into "Pesavento has got to steal a the season. Murphy is counting bunch of bases, Skupien and on production senior Mike Har­Moshier will get their share mon, juniors Erik Madsen and and don't be surprised if (Pat) Mike Passilla and sophomore O'Brien and Peltier steal five Brian Piotrowicz. to 10 bases." "Talk about question marks, 
Either junior Tim Hutson or pitching is going to be a real sophomore Ed Lund will get the key," said Murphy. "These first base job. The starting po­kids have worked extremely sition also is up for grabs at hard. They may be short on catcher, with O'Brien, sopho­ability, but I'll guarantee more Dave Yawman and fresh­they'll fight to the end. We're man Jeff Knight in the hunt. just using the best available 
"Yawman has made giant pitcher at the time. We don't strides, O'Brien can do an ade­have the luxury of (a rotation) quate job and Jeff Knight is right now." young but has a tremendous The pitchers will be tested amount of potential," said quickly in a week of reunions Murphy. "We'll have to see for the Notre Dame baseball how they perform when we get team. Against Duke, Murphy under the lights." will meet first-year Duke coach 
Steve Traylor. Murphy 
In the outfield, Notre Dame coached under Traylor at has several newcomers to Florida Atlantic, as the school replace graduated seniors reached the top five in the na­Scott Rogers and John Lough­tion's Division II polls.At Wake ran, the most notable of whom Forest, the Irish meet their will start in centerfield. Senior previous coach Larry Gallo, Terry Andrysiak, the former who now is an assistant coach Irish quarterback, appears to for the Demon Deacons. have won the starting slot at "We start with seven very center. difficult games," said Murphy. 
Andrysiak will be flanked by "I'm just looking for the con­either O'Brien or junior James sistency and composure that is Sass (another football player) necessary for a winning pro­at left field and Peltier at right gram. We just can't worry field. about our record and just have 
"I'm fairly confident with the to worry about playing good situation," Murphy said. ball. The nature of baseball is "We've got a good athlete in not to have an undefeated Terry. He's just picking the season, but if we can approach game back up, and he picks a 65 percent winning clip, we'll things up quick. When mid­be in the hunt for an NCAA bid. season rolls around, he'll be a It mc.y not happen this year, heck of a player. but in years to come." 


The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For further information contact Kevin Becker at The Observer (239-5303) 

W ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF 

BARTENDER 
FOR THE 1988-89 SCHOOL YEAR NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY LICATION FORMS MAY BE PICKED UP T THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTN­ITIES, THIRD FLOOR LaFORTUNE LICANTS MUST BE 21 BY SEPT. 1, 1988 DEADLINE IS MARH 11, 1988 

Thursday, February 25, 1988 The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
12:30 p.m.: GALA-Kellogg Graduate Student Workshop, "Intransigence and Politics: A Review of the Interpretations of Argentine Politics, 1912-1976," by Nancy Powers, ND Government and International Studies graduate student. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 3 p.m.: Tennis, NDM vs. Colorado. Eck Tennis Pavilion. 3:30-6 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar, "Ideological Biases Versus Scientific Facts: AIDS in Africa and the African Diaspora." Chairperson: Mutombo Mpanya, ND. Presentations by: Ali Mazrui, University of Michigan; Paul Car­ryon, M.D., Mercy Medical Center, Chicago; Margaret Aguwa, M.D., Michigan State University. Multipurpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. 4:15p.m.: College of Arts and Letters Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series and the Department of Government and Black Studies Program Series Lecture, "Eth­nic and Racial Minorities in Advanced Industrial Democracies: Women, Minorities and the Study of American Politics," by Susan Welch, University of Nebraska -Lincoln. Room 122 Hayes-Healy Center Auditorium. 
4: 30 p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium, "A pseudo-differential calculus associated to three-step nilpotent groups," by Professor Thomas Cummins, Yale University. 226 Computing Center and Math Building. 7 p.m.: Lecture, Graduate Studies in History, by Professors William Dohar and Gregory Dowd. Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center. 8 p.m.: Sophomore Literary Festival, Don Hendrie Jr. will read from his works. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 10-11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talkshow, on minority student concerns and the University's aim to raise the minority ratio. Both administrators and students will be interviewed by host Lynsey Strand, WVFI-AM 640. Call in questions at 239-6400. 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grilled Pastrami  Turkey Cutlet with Gravy  
Sweet and Sour Chicken  Pork sukiyaki over Rice  
Meatloaf  seafood Crepes with Cheese  
Stuffed Shells  Sauce  
French Onion Soup  Deli Bar  

ACROSS 1 Kukla's friend 5 Snakes 9 Coastline 
14 Entice 15 Provo's state 16 Choir voice 17 Cruising 18 Zhivago's love 19 Lift 20 Healthy 23 Disencumber 24 Cover 25 Lasso 29 Venetian blind 
part 31 Witnessed 34 Catkin 35 Astound 36 Antitoxins 37 In the ­

(healthy) 40 Concludes 41 Excellent 42 "Mr. Chips" 43 -Angeles 44 Part of a.m. 45 Skyscrapers 46· Gold: Sp. 47 Weight 48 Healthy 55 Coli. tchrs. 56 Possessive 57 Consumer 59 Street show 60 Snug abode 61 Bypath 62 Long 63 Weaver's reed 64 Vehicle 
DOWN 1 Sunshine 
State: abbr. 2 Hurry 3 Region 4 Actress 
Patricia 5 Cafe ­6 Position 7 Sidekick 
familiarly 8 Iranian title 9 Glde's "-Is the Gate" 10 Listened to 


©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
11 Step -! (hurry) 12 Blushing 13 Before to poets 21 Muse of 
poetry 22 Antelope 25 Jacket feature 26 Kind of acid 27 Tears violently 28 Writing fluids 29 Pebble 30 Crescent­
shaped figure 31 Paris' 
river 32 Bellowing 33 Desires 35 Highlander 46 Bid 52 Hawaiian 36 Stash 47 Succinct dance 38 Papal scarf 48 "Dies -" 53 Jacob's 39 "-want to 49 A Charles brother 
set ..." 50 Ages and 54 Lease 44 Ascended ages 55 Snoop45 Like browned 51 Gas or 58 Car of 
bread oil yesterday 


Comics 
Bloom County The Far Side Gary Larson
Berke Breathed 

I REIILIZE WHY I'VE 8f'£N fiCTTN& JO P€CIJI..IIII< t.f/T£/..Y...  {l()VflH(/€ w'l/5 TIIL.KIN& 1/B(}(ff IT 7H/5 MOI?NING .. \  1111 51/FFERIN& FI?OM II "Milt£ MENOPIII/511/.. Mtll­f'ATERNfl/... Cf!CJC/15/f!Nfl/... &l/1/..T P05T-f'EN6U!Nfl/... Ell!?/..Y-/..IFE 5111/T '  OR flN fV/.fVI M.P. c. &.P P.€.1. 5NIT. I  HOW '801/TJIJ5T "5N!T".:' I  


Calvin and Hobbes 
Cotllt. \l'l, RoS~L~N .' I"M SORR~! W£ DIDNT Rt:ALIZ.E. C~IJIN ~~N'T \.£1 ~0\J IN. 
•··························································~•
: SUB presents: : 
i WEST SIDE STORY ! 
• 
: Tonight : : 8:00-10:00 pm : : $2.00 : 
: Cushing Auditorium :
• 
~·························································· 
Bill Watterson 
1\-\E \)CYJ!2. 
Wt-.S jM.I.MEO. 
~U...i. I mJLO!'fI G£1 
II CJI't.tt 

"Wow! Now Ed and Carl are gone.... Seems like lately we've been dropping like ourselves." 


Sports 
Thursday, February 25, 1988
page 16 

NO women travel to Valpo riding five-game win streak 
By THERESA KELLY defense held the Crusaders to said. "Lisa Kuhns has really Sports Writer 20 of 72 shooting (.278) while come on for us. We did not have the Irish, who led the nation in a very good perimeter game at VALPARAISO, In.-Looking field goal shooting at the time, all at the time, but now our of­to run its winning streak to six shot 53 percent. fense is much more balanced." games, the Notre Dame wo­Notre Dame still leads the Are the Irish ready for the 
men's basketball team will nation at 53 percent but Val­rematch? travel west (but not far) paraiso will probably be better "We were looking good this tonight to take on the Val­both ofensively and defensive­week," McGraw said of the paraiso Crusders at Val­ly. The Crusaders look like a Irish. "We didn't play well paraiso. better team to McGraw despite against Marquette, but we're 
At 17-6 and sporting the best their 5-18 record after Tuesday fired up for these next few record after 23 games in their night's loss to DePaul. games."10 year history, the Irish look The Irish beat Marquette 70­to beat North Star Conference "They don't have the size to 69 on the road last Saturday.foe Valparaiso for the second match up with ours, so we'll try '"These next few games" in­time this season. On Dec. 19, to go inside," says McGraw. clude Valparaiso and Sunday's the Irish clobbered the "But they are a good perimeter home finale against DePaul,Crusaders 93-60, with Heidi shooting team. They are shoot­both important in the Irish Bunek and Karen Robinson ing a lot better than they did NCAA hopes. With five games
scoring 15 points each and against us before. They are remaining, the team is on tar­Bunek pulling down eight also playing really good get for a 20 victory saeson and boards. defense." possible post-season play. 
"They're playing better now The Irish were 5-1 going into "If we don't win the confer­then they were last time we the last meeting, and the ence regular season, we won't 
played,'' says Irish head coach schedule has been tough since go to the tournament,"Muffet McGraw. "They are then. McGraw expects another 
•.1

McGraw said. "I wouldn't The Observer I Suzanne Poch
playing a lot better together Irish victory and says the team 
mind being in the tourney
arid working hard." has improved since December. Mary Gavin and the women's basketball team face Valparaiso today. 
anyway, but I don1t think
In the last game, the Irish· "We've gelled as a unit," she Theresa Kelly previews the game at left.
they'll let us do that." 

PW claims No. 1 seed for women's IH playoffs 
By JEFF HEILERT short jump shot midway Fecko led PW with 12 points drew a controversial blocking Lewis clinched a tie for Sports Writer through the third quarter to and Kathy Kronenberger's in­call. She converted both foul second place by defeating draw her team into a 16-16 tie. side game contributed eight shots to account for the two­Walsh (1-7). Lewis finished the 
Is coaching important in wo­Seguin's jumper capped off a points. point win. season with a 6-2 mark. men's Interhall basketball? It 8-2 Howard run and added to By virtue of its unblemished Lyons head coach, Don PE, the defending women's is if your team is coached by her own game leading point record, PW grabs the No. 1 Vitek, still looks positively Interhall champions, won by senior Gary Sasse. total of 14. seed for the playoff action. toward the playoffs. forfeit over Farley, but still 
Sasse led Pasquerilla East to PW rebounded with the help "Being undefeated is great," "We haven't practiced in a finished 3-5 and out of the an undefeated season last year of forward Francine Kelly. said Sasse. "But I hope it week," said Vitek, "and I think playoff picture. Farley and has done it again, this time Kelly connected on a couple dif­doesn't go to waste in the that had a lot to do with us dropped to 2-6 on the season. with rival Pasquerilla West. ficult shots to lead a 8-0 run and playoffs. We are going to have losing. The call at the end cer­Breen-Phillips, who had a Sasse has not lost as a coach in give PW the lead back at 24-16. to work on our press. tainly didn't help, but we bye the last week, grabbed the two complete regular seasons. "Hollywood (Kelly) really In other action, Lyons fell shouldn't have been in that po­fourth playoff spot with a 4-4 
Tuesday night, PW capped added some scoring punch back into a second place tie sition. We'll practice before the record. BP had defeated Badin off a perfect 8-0 season with a when we needed it tonight," with Lewis after being upset by playoffs and we'll be ready." earlier in the season to secure comfortable 41-30 win against said Sasse: "Her and those 'Dr. Badin (4-4) 34-32. Badin was led by Bartosch a playoff appearence. Howard (2-6). PW, however, J.' moves.'' With five seconds remaining with 15 points and Kristen Mil­Playoff action is set for Sun­did not escape without a scare. PW showed a very balanced in the game, Badin's Sue Bar­ler who added 13. Liz Bolt day, February 28, with semi­
Howard's Elise Seguin hit a attack. Floor leader Pandora tosch drove the baseline and paced Lyons with 11. final games at 6 and 7 p.m. 
Baseball team heads to Duke to begin 'Wonderdokter' era 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Murphy will coach the team in last season, with six home runs Sports Writer the 1988 Seoul Summer Olym­and 39 runs batted in. pics. ''Peltier will be a leader from First-year Notre Dame But Holland is far from the standpoint that he's an ex­
baseball coach Pat Murphy Murphy's mind right now, and cellent player and person,"isn't interested in thinking for that matter, so is South said Murphy. "He's a great kid 
about the past. He's much more Bend. The Irish start their and and excellent player who excited about the future of the season at Duke today, go from constantly works on his game.Irish baseball program, and there to Wake Forest, then People respect that." before the team has even taken have road games with Indiana the field for the first time, he and Indiana State, then go to Returning to the infield with has given it an entirely new Texas over spring break. Notre Pesavento are senior captain · identity. Dame plays its first home Steve Skupien at third base and 
Welcome to the world of game on March 22, after junior Mike Moshier at second "Wonderdokter" and his playing its first 17 games on the base. Murphy is hoping the in­junkyard dogs. road. Half of the home games fielders will best exemplify his 
"We can't wait for other will be played at South Bend's aggressive style. people to take it to us, we've new Stanley Covaleski "Pesavento is a good athlete got to take it to them," says Stadium. "We have to play especially at short, but what 
Murphy, referring to the ag­60 games to be competitive really makes that infield go are 
gressive style of play he has with the other teams in the Skupien and Moshier," said had his players adopt. "Our country because they all play Murphy. "They're hardnosed, whole team identity is not to 60 games," said Murphy. "The tough kids and won't get the look for excuses, just play the only way we're going to be able writeups Pesavento will get,game with a junkyard dog-like to do it is to play early in warm but they deserve a lot of cred­desire. I call them the junkyard weather." it." 
dogs. Although the Irish did not at­
Murphy has been called Murphy's top dogs this tempt many stolen bases last "Wonderdokter" in other parts season look to be senior season, they were successful of the globe. At least so says a shortstop Pat Pesavento and when they tried to run. Notre newspaper collage in his office, sophomore outfielder Dan Pel­Dame runners were safe on 85 commemorating his perfor­tier. Pesavento, last year's percent of their steal attempts mance managing the Dutch na­team MVP with ·a .333 batting last season, and the Irish were tional team last summer. The average, returns to the Irish 12-6 in games where they stole Holland team placed a surpris­after being drafted by the Bos­a ·base. When the Irish didn't
The Notre Dame baseball season gets In full swing this weekend. 
ing second in last summer's ton Red Sox last summer. Pel­
Steve Megargee previews the team's first year under Pat Murphy see STEAL, page 14
European championships, and tier provided the most power
at right. 











