-o-

Happy Tailgating! 
,,'
Irish Extra 

Partly sunny today with a high around 75. Clear and cooler
Notre Dame vs. 
tonight. Low around 50. Mostly sunny and pleasant tomorrow. 
Purdue 
High 70 to 75. 




Late hours in Oak Room in jeopardy, says Hickey 
By RON SEVERINO University Food Services for any News Staff money lost because of the program. Attendance at the Oak Room during 
Unless late-night use of the new 24-the night has continually fluctuated hour Oak Room increases within the since its opening on September 6. At next few weeks, the all-night aspect of times during the middle of the week, the lounge may be in jeopardy, said there are no more than five students University Food Services Director occupying the lounge, yet on a football William Hickey, Jr. weekends it can become quite busy with 
"There's been a serious decline in at­many patrons. tendance," said Hickey. "This pro­"We were short of help the night of gram must be measured in numbers. the Michigan game," said Virginia If it doesn't produce, it won't survive." Cleary, a Mishawaka resident hired to 
The number Hickey referred to was work the night shift. the amount of money taken in each Usually there are two employees night. Hickey said that it was necessary working the 11:00 p.m.-7:30a.m. shift to take in enough to cover the costs of during the week (except on football keeping the Oak Room open at night. weekends, when more help is re­At the present pace, the money brought quired). Both workers are responsible in is not sufficient. for running the cash register, cleaning 
Hickey made an agreement with Stu­and cooking to order. Cleary said that dent Government President Tom Doyle everything seems to be going smoothly and Vice-President Mike Paese that the at night but admits that the all-night 24-hour lounge would stay open only if lounge is "still highly experimental." no money is lost. Student Government 
See Oak, page 5
would be responsible for recompensing 
Gunman kills police officer, three others near Chicago school 
Associated Press "I'm assuming he may have had some type of grievance, but I don't know. 
CHICAGO-A gunman killed two "All the witnesses state that this in­people yesterday in an auto parts store, dividual never said a word" in the store then fatally wounded a police officer before opening fire, Martin added. and a custodian at a nearby school At an afternoon news conference, before police shot the man dead, aut­Martin gave the following account: horities said. The gunman, Clemie Henderson, 40, 
A city garbage man also was walked into the Comet Auto Parts store wounded, as was a second police officer about 10 a.m. and shot and killed two at the Montefiore School on the city's clerks behind the counter-John Van 

A Notre Dame student tests out his passing Hall. Maybe a future walk-on? West Side, and it was the injured officer Dyke, 41, and Robert Quinn, 26. Hen­arm on South quad near O'Shaughnessy who gunned down the man, said derson missed a third clerk, who Chicago Police Superintendent LeRoy pretended to be hit and fell to the Martin. ground.The dead police officer was Irma Quinn died with a pencil in one hand
New, tougher lockout 
Ruiz, 40, a mother of four who had been and a telephone in another. on the force 12 years, Martin said. Henderson then walked out a side en­The gunman, described by a friend trance and encountered city garbage
policy for SMC dorms 
as full of anger since his combat service man Laplose Chestnut, Jr., 34, fired his in Vietnam, had a history of battery

By ANN BRENNAN times for McCandless, LeMans, and See School, page 10
complaints and drug use, Martin said. 

News Staff Holy Cross halls are 7 a.m., 7 p.m. and midnight. 
Saint Mary's students this year dis­Times for Regina Hall, which is com­covered getting back into their locked prised mainly of singles, are 7 ·p.m., 9 rooms won't be as easy as in the past. p.m. and midnight to 7 a.m. A new lockout policy keeps locked out The policy was designed this year by residents locked out, said Director of second-year resident assistants. In an Residence Life and Housing Lissa Van­effort to decrease the high number of Bebber. lockouts, which last year totaled 800 in 
Students in the past were only re­each dorm, VanBebber asked the RAs quired to complete a lockout slip and for their opinions on how to deal with present it to their resident assistant. the problem. VanBebber emphasized But now they must follow a stricter pro­that RAs must consider their own stu­cedure. dent life as well. She noted that students 
Resident assistants will no longer who were locked out would often dis­carry master keys. A student who is turb the resident assistants while they locked out must follow these were studying or sleeping. procedures as outlined in the policy: Furthermore, VanBebber said she 
• 
Report to her hall desk and complete feels the new policy will "encourage the necessary forms. responsibility on the part of the stu­

• 
Wait until one of the designated room­dent." opening times. It is necessary for the student to keep 

• 
At the designated time, report to the her room locked and her valuables hall desk and meet a resident assistant safe; the protection of a student's pos­who will open her room. sessions is "the individuals responsibil­


Fighting Fire With Fir~e

• Go to her room with the RA who will ity, not the hall's," she said. 
verify the student's ID. California Department of Forestry fire The three designated room-opening See Lock, page 6 fighters light back fires west of Vacaville, 



~---------------­
-

page 2 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
OF INTEREST 
Mike Royko, syndicated columnist, whose acerbic putdown of Indiana angered Hoosiers in a 1982 column, has asked The Indianapolis News to drop his column. In a letter published in Wednesday's editions of The News, the Chicago Tribune columnist said he receives letters from Hoosiers who describe him as "a boob, a hack or a communist." Royko said the letters do not offend him as much as opening and reading them wastes his time. He pointed out that because Tribune Media Services Inc. does not permit him to choose the newspapers that carry his Cfllumn, as a personal favor, he wants The News to drop his column. "If you grant me this favor, I will be forever grateful and will never again say anything bad about Hoosiers," Royko wrote. He concluded, "Except for those who run for vice president," newspaper said. He called Indianapolis "probably the dullest large city in the U.S." and made fun of the Indianapolis 500. "That big, stupid race and Indiana deserve each other," Royko wrote. ­
Associated Press 
A Purdue University professor hopes to learn more about the similarities between Vietnam veterans in this country and Afghan veterans in the Soviet Union. Charles Figley, an international expert on psychological effects of traumatic stress, will be the senior scientist in a 15­member delegation evaluating services the Soviet govern­ment provides for veterans of the Afghanistan war and victims of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. The two-week trip, which begins Sunday, is sponsored by the Foundation for Social Inventions, a private group in the Soviet Union. It has been in the works for almost a year, according to Figley, a professor in Purdue's Department of Child De­velopment and Family Studies. -Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
BruceBabbitt,formerDemocraticpresidentialnominee, will be speaking on the Fieldhouse Mall today at 3:00. Babbitt, a graduate of Notre Dame, is also a former gover­nor of Arizona. Babbitt will speak for about an hour, and will then field questions from the audience. In case of bad weather, Babbitt will appear in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Exciting AFROTC action takes place today during the Drill Team and Arnold Air Society picnic at 5 p.m. on Holy Cross Field. Come watch these two groups compete for the AFROTC volleyball champion title. -The Observer 
Auditions for the Department of Communication and Theatre Stage Two Series production of Christopher Durang's "The Marriage of Bette and Boo" will be held tonight at 7 p.m. on the main stage of Washington Hall. 
-The Observer 
Logan Center Council for the Retarded will be holding its first dance tonight at Logan Center from 7: 30 to 10 
p.m.. The theme is a sock hop, so bring your wildest socks. There will be pizza after the dance. St. Mary's volunteers will be picked up at 6:45p.m. in front of Holy Cross Hall. Notre Dame volunteers meet at 7 p.m. in front of LaFor­tune. Questions, call Karen at 283-4950 or Jim at 283-3795 
-The Observer 
The cheerleading squad and The Porn Pon Girls will perform on Saturday at 10:30 a.m. in front of the Hammes Bookstore. -The Observer 
Issues '88, Notre Dame's rousing political forum formerly known as "Strictly Speaking", will debut Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on WVFI. This week's show features an exclusive interview with former presidential candidate and Notre Dame graduate Gov. Bruce Babbitt. Bob Groth moderates provocative political debate between panelists Chris Devron, Ed Yevoli, and Matt Schlapp. -The Observer 

Design Editors ............ Bernadette Shilts Sports Copy Editor ... ....... Theresa Kelly ........................................... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Layout.... ... Annette Rowland Design Assistant .. .... Janice O'Leary Etc. Copy Editor ....... ..... Susan Buckley Typesetters .................... Molly Schwartz Etc. Design.............. ............ Tim Irvine ...........................................Paul Jackson Irish Extra Layout ............. Alison Cocks News Editor................... Matt Gallagher .................................... Annette Rowland 
Copy Editor................... Ingrid Schmidt 
Tile Olllener (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina ClWII and vacation periods. Tile Obaner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina Tile OblerYer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Obeener is a member of 1'lle Alaodeled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Quayle shatters myths about college and life 
Myths die hard. Ask Joseph Campbell or ....:;C:=-:h,....--=.-------------­Edith Hamilton. Yet, whatever the outcome of riS this year's presidential election, this D 11 scrupulously bipartisan column urges students onne yall across the country to be grateful to Senator Dan Quayle for dispelling some myths about Managing Editor education that we suspected all along were ~:!;iii~!!!!!!!!~~~==::;~~~~~~~~
vunerable. r He set the record straight about four things: 
1 Myth# 1: Grades matter. The shattering of other myths depends on this one, so it is impor­tant to get this clear. No matter what your par­ents or professors say, no matter what you heard from the time you entered Miss Potter's Nusery School, grades will not stand in the way of employment opportunities. 
Take the most unlikely possibility: You, like Mr. Quayle, are a political science major in which you get Cs and even a D. To top things off, you are required to take a comprehensive exam in your field in order to graduate and you fail. According to the Wall Street Journal (81.9), this is not a difficult exam at DePauw--hardly anyone fails--but Dan Quayle failed. Not to worry. Read my lips: Grades do not matter. You'll have an even chance to get whatever job -------------------' you want. school, you do not want your transcript
Myth # 2: Transcripts will be evaluated; the released. higher the GPA, the better your chances. Myth# 3: Teachers' evaluations count. As a 
You've probably beenprogrammed to believe DePauw alum who was a senator in the "home" this one, too, but forget it. It was probably made state, Dan Quayle was proposed for an honorary up by ladies in registrars' offices all across the degree from his alma mater. Many faculty country who want to make a bundle by charging protested, signed petitions, and argued that he you $2 a shot for a copy. was "vapid," a poor student, a lightweight.
Dan Quayle has asked DePauw University Most professors remembered him as totally un­and the University of Indiana Law School not distinguished; some as a goof-off. A fellow stu­to release his academic records. Again, accor­dent recalled him as interested in "girls, golf ding to the Wall Street Journal, Senator and a good time." Quayle's grades were not good enough for ad­The president overrode the veto and con­mission to th University of Indiana Law School, ferred an honorary degree to a C student who but the Cleveland Plain Dealer found that he failed his comps. was admitted under an "equal opportunity pro­Dan's story is here to remind us that there gram" designed in part to assist poor and is no reason to be kind to faculty. They would minority students. like you to think that the recommendations they 
write on your behalf can influence your future, 

Personally, I like these comments from Mr. but the truth is nobody cares what they say Quayle on defense best of all: "Why wouldn't about you. an enhanced deterrent, a more stable peace, a Myth# 4: Be articulate. Have facts on your better prospect to denying the ones who enter fingertips at a job interview. conflict in the first place to have a reduction of Don't believe it for a second. 'offensive systems and an introduction to defen­The casual unrehearsed style is to be sive capability. I believe that is the route this preferred. When Senator Quayle cites the plot country will eventually go." (The New York of a Tom Clancy novel to argue for the Reagan Times, MOOS). defense program or is surprised to learn that 
Apparently, Mr. Bush knew a good thing when Vice President Bush had a major role in the he saw it. Mr. Quayle told David Broder of The Reagan 'campaign against drugs, these utter­Washington Post that George Bush "has leaned ings have a certain charm to them. on me on national security matters." People who have facts and know things tend 
Or was that Robert Ludlum? to appear arrogant to some and threatening to Will people wonder how? others. Don't get nervous. Mix up the facts. Say things like: "The Millions of Americans are evaluating Quayle Holocaust is one of the greatest tragedies in 
for the second highest job in the country and our nation's history" and "I was not born in they don't seem to care. You, too, may be just this century." These slips will make you seem as lucky. But be firm: For reasons of privacy, human. Nobody wants to have anyone perfect tell your prospective employer or graduate working for them. 
···········.····················································-~~ Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
11 
Happy Birthday 
Today is laura S."s birthday. Call her up 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way • ' 
laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune 
on pool tables tonight. • 
~***************************~ 
iC 

~  NOTREDAMEA~RTMENTS  t  
* ~  COMPLETELY FURNISHED 2 BEDROOM APTS  ~ ie  
*  ~  
RENT AS LOW AS  .  iC  
~* *  899.00 A MONTH  .  ~ iC  
~  OFFICE AT 820 NO AVE  iC~  
~  234-6647  iC  
~  CALL ANYTIME FOR APPT. AND INFO.  iC  
*  

.****************************. 







BRUCE BABBITT • • 
FORMER GOVERNOR OF ARIZONA 
• 
AND 

U.S. DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL • 
CANDIDATE •• NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS •• 
• 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1988 4:00 TO 5:00p.m. 
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
Speaker Wright denies charges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-House Speaker Jim Wright denied yes­terday that he revealed anyth­ing classified when he criticized a covert CIA opera­tion in Nicaragua, while Republicans pressed for for­mal ethics and intelligence in­vestigations of the speaker's remarks. 
Wright, who has become a lightning rod for Democrats on Central America policy, found himself again embroiled in con­troversy for his revelation two days earlier that the Central In­telligence Agency had in­stigated demonstrations aimed at provoking the leftist Managua government and sabotaging peace talks with the Contra rebels. 
The speaker repeated that assertion to reporters, but con­tended such CIA activity was already well known through news reports. 

"I didn't say anything that was revealed to me as classi­fied information," said Wright, D-Texas. 
While he denied breaking rules against disclosing secrets, Wright did not specify how he had learned of the covert operation in Nicaragua. He and other Democrats sought to focus attention on the administration's action rather than the propriety of Wright's disclosure. 
"In late August of last year, I became aware that elements of the U.S. government were seeking to disturb the domestic tranquility in Central America, to foment disturbances with a view to seeing if they could provoke" the Sandinistas into a crackdown that would derail peace talks, Wright said. 
"That seems to me just in­tolerably two-faced," he said. Wright added that he had been given "indirect assurance" that the practice has now been halted. 
House Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois and Rep. Dick Cheney, R-Wyo., chairman of the House Repub­lican Conference, formally re­quested investigations in both the Intelligence Committee and the Ethics Committee, which has responsibility for en­forcing non-disclosure rules. 

The Ethics Panel, formally known as the Commitee on Standards of Official Conduct, already is investigating Wright on unrelated allegations. 
And a primary sponsor of legislation to tighten Congress' control over covert CIA activi­ties, Sen. William Cohen, R­Maine, said the speaker's com­ments had apparently violated non-disclosure rules and jeopardized the bill. 
"The clear implication .. . is that the speaker's statement could only have been derived from classified information in the. possession of the House In­telligence Committee," Cohen said. "The speaker owes his colleagues in Congress and the American people an explana­tion." 
The Observer page 3 
The Observer I Scot McCann 

E11tertainment is "Tops" 
Two members of "Tops in Blue", the U.S. Air Force's ence during their free ninety-minute performance last top entertainment touring group, entertain the audi-night in Stepan Center. 
Ethnic violence in U.S.S.R. continues, troops enter region 
Associated Press 

to 6 a.m. curfew in
.. 

Stepanakert, the main city of 
MOSCOW-Tanks and troops the Nagorno-Karabakh region, rolled into two southern Soviet center of the dispute between republics yesterday where Armenians and Azerbaijanis protesters in an ethnic dispute that's been going on since attacked a prosecutor's office, February. Violence in ·the rallied by the hundreds of region this week killed one per­thousands and staged strikes. son and hurt 48. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Protesters, who want the Vadim Perfiliev told a news area to be taken from Azer­briefing in Moscow: "The sit­baijan and made part of Ar­uation is not improving. It has menia, attacked the city's pros­become even more threaten­ecutor's office in Stepanakert ing." yesterday. 
Authorities imposed a 9 p.m. "There are soldiers on every street, at every crossroad, checking passports and per­sonal cars," said a man who answered the telephone at the state radio and television of­
fice,  Gostelradio,  in  
Stepanakert.  
Nagorno-Karabakh,  in  the  

Caucasus Mountains, was vir­tually at a standstill and sealed off because of ethnic tension. 

In Yerevan, capital of the Ar­menian republic, about 700,000 people flooded the streets for a three-hour rally last night . 

FIELDHOUSE MALL •
: .
• RAIN: WASHINGTON HALL •
: : 
·······~······················································ 

---~----­
''Where Knowledge Make All the Difference'' 
I
r 
f 
I 
SPEAKERS CAR AUDIO 
i JBL HARMOi\l KARDOi\l 
+ WHARFEDALE Qf\jKYO
t . EPI MARAf\JTZiALTEC LANSING PHILLIPS . 
t 
• + 
:
•
i 
•
: 
•
: 

i 
E.S.S. AKAI 
PHILLIPS AIWA HITACHI 
H.H. SCOTT PROTOf\J 

1 f 2 PRICE SPEAKER
t 

Sale Thru Sept 30 
ON MANY MODELS SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE! 



Ask About 
WE ACCEPT!
' 

VISA MASTERCARD : 
DISCOVER

Our Student 
AMERICAN EX. 

Discount i 

················································~:
:
3915 GRAPE ROAD 277-1801 
• 
You'll find us just North of Edison Road! : 

....................­
..............................: 
\ \ \ '\' . ' . '' \ \ .., . 

----~--------~-~ 
I 
I 

Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 The Observer page 5 


I
-
-
I I I


-
-
I
-
-
II 

Army general named to head Lebanon's Parliament 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon­Lebanon's army commander will be the prime minister of a six-man military government, President Amin Gemayel said in a decree issued in the last minutes of his presidency yes­terday. 
Gemayel's stunning choice of a military Cabinet, led by army commander Gen. Michel Aoun, came after civilian Moslem fig­ures refused to take part in an interim Cabinet headed by a Maronite Catholic premier. 
Gemayel had to name a transition government because the deeply divided Parliament failed to choose a new president yesterday. The constitution bars Gemayel from seeking an­other presidential term. 
Earlier Gemayel was trying to form a civilian government under business tycoon Pierre 

11-11-11-11-11 

BIG BARGAINS 

Notre DameFootball The Goldenliadition 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
The Golden Tradition DAVE CONDON, CHET GRANT, & BOB BEST 

REG. 24.95 SALE 11.95 
SPECIAL STORE HOURS SATURDAY SEPT 24, 1988 ­
-

8:00AM TO 5:30 PM 
I
-

HAMMES 
­
NB~oM£ 
11-11-11-11-11 ' 
I
-
-
I 


RALL'Vf The 12 Greatest Notre Dame Football Comebacks JEFF JEFFERS 
I 

REG. 12.95 SALE 5.95 

I 

Helou, a Maronite Catholic who is a Parliament deputy. 
The shift to a military Cabinet appeared aimed at heading off the formation of two governments, one Christ­ian and one Moslem, that would have further cemented the sec­tarian cantons that have formed during a 13-year civil war that has left more than 150,000 dead. 
The decrees appointing the Cabinet members, who repre­sent the six main sects in Lebanon, came five minutes before Gemayel's presidency expired at midnight (5 p.m. EDT). 
Also yesterday, Moslems and Christians clashed around the dividing Green Line, and three top commanders of Amal, the main Shiite Moslem militia, were assassinated. 
Aoun, the Maronite army commander, and his five min­
~ 
isters will continue serving as the army's Supreme Defense Council, which controls Lebanon's military. The decrees, effective immedi­ately, also named Aoun as defense and information mini­ster. He remains the army commander. 
"I leave the presidency today worried and filled with anx­iety," Gemayel told the nation in a five-minute farewell ad­dress televised nationwide before issuing the decrees. 
"Today should have been a festival in which we rejoice over the election of a new pres­ident that would take the helm and the oath of office as I and my predecessors did," Gemayel said. "But the people of war were stronger than peace." 
Moslems and Christians 
fought after Parliament 
speaker Hussein Husseni 
postponed a Parliament ses­
sion to elect a president. 
Police said a Christian 
militiaman was killed and two 
soldiers of the predominantly 
Shiite 6th Brigade were 
wounded in a two-hour duel 
around the Green Line, which 
divides Beirut into Christian 
and Moslem sectors. 
Several mortar rounds 

crashed around the Parliament buildi~· Moslem west Beirut' Nejmah Square, protect 1,000 6th Brigade troops and Moslem policemen, police said. 
A police spokesman said Amal leaders Daoud Daoud, Mahmoud Fakih and Hassan Sbeiti died instantly after gun­men raked their car with ma­chine gun fire • and rocket­propelled grenades in south Beirut's seaside Ouzai district. 
Oak 

continued from page 1 
She reports that she usually 
sees about five to ten students 
studying for tests during the 
weeknight hours of 2:00 -5:00 
a.m. 
Two of these students, soph­
omore Pre-meds Steve Hed­
dinger and Kevin Noffa, made 
use of the 24-hour lounge most 
of this week, as they had to 
prepare for both Biology and 
Organic Chemistry tests. 
"The atmosphere keeps you 
awake--it's too easy to roll into 
bed when you're studying in 
your dorm," said Heddinger, 
who planned to stay in the 
lounge until four or five in the 
morning for an eight o'clock 
test. 
The Oak Room offers plenty 
of coffee for the late-nighters, 
along with a small variety of 
hot foods, sandwiches, drinks 
and other snacks. A big-screen 
television is kept on until about 
2:00 a.m. and then a stereo is played the rest of the night. 
The 24-hour lounge was the keystone of Doyle's and Paese's student services plank in last year's campaign for Stu­dent Government's top offices. Both have stressed that they did their part in opening the all­night Oak Room, but now it's up to the students to keep it alive. 
The decline in usage over the past week has spurned Student Government to resume inten­sive advertising for the Oak Room to remind students that the opportunity does exist, said Hickey. 


pageS The Observer 
Soviets offer to reduce long-range weapons 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-With the 
Reagan administration!s time 
running out, Soviet General 
Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev 
sought yesterday to give new 
momentum to arms control ef­
forts by presenting the United 
States with a broad range of 
proposals to sharply reduce 
long-range nuclear weapons. 
Although senior U.S. officials have virtually abandoned hopes for cutbacks in missiles, bombers and submarines of 30 to 50 percent as part of a new treaty, Gorbachev sent Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze here with sug­gestions for clearing two of the main roadblocks. 
Shevardnadze took the proposals to Secretary of State George Shultz along with a let­ter from Gorbachev to Presi­dent Reagan. The Soviet foreign minister is scheduled to see Reagan at the White House today. 
"The agenda is very broad, but we have little time," Shevardnadze said. 
In an effort to facilitate prog­ress, the Soviets had sent some of their proposals to the U.S. side before Shevardnadze's two-day visit. Asked if the foreign minister had brought good news, Reagan said, "I think so," as he boarded a helicopter at the White House to begin a campaign trip on be-
Lock 
continued from page 1 
VanBebber also feels that stricter enforcement will prepare students for life after graduation. She explains that when a person is locked out of her home, there is no one around with a master key. 
This new policy is ''not as tough as the real world, but more realistic {than last year's policy)," VanBebber said. 
The lockout policy has sparked numerous complaints from students. "It's as if it were a federal offense," said sophomore Nora Melchert. "It is inconvenient for some­one to have to let us in, but it is also an inconvenience to 
have to wait several hours to 
be let in," said LeMans Hall 
sophomore Anne Tandowsky. 
The first offense carries no penalty, but the second war­rants two hours parietal duty on a weekend and the third of­fense, eight hours' duty on a Saturday. 
**** 


half of Vice President George Bush in Texas. 
The two treaty obstacles the Soviet foreign minister singled out to reporters at the State De­partment involve the restric­tions to be imposed on the range of non-ballistic cruise missiles that can be launched by bombers and warships and ways of verifying that any agreed-upoa cutbacks on their number are not exceeded. 
Negotiators in Geneva have been unable to resolve these problems, as well as related questions dealing with Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative, the search for a space-based shield against So­viet ballistic missiles. 
Immediately after Shultz greeted Shevardnadze, teams of U.S. and Soviet experts began private deliberations on the twin issues of reducing stra­tegic nuclear weapons and on anti-missile defenses. Veteran American and Soviet negotiators Paul Nitze and Vik­tor Karpov headed their respective delegations. 
Shevardnadze also singled out hoped-for reductions in con­ventional weapons in Europe as a major item on the Soviet agenda. "We want to see where we are, where we stand and what the prospects are," he said. "We believe there are some good prospects." 
Negotations in Vienna are stalled over U.S. demands that 

PART-TIME CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS STUDENTS WITH OVERSEAS EXPERIENCE EARN MONEY NOW WHILE CONTINUING YOUR STUDIES! 
OUR' CLIENTS ARE CURRENTLY SEEKING QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS WITH FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA EXPERTISE, ESPECIALLY FOR ASIAN, AFRICAN AND LATIN AMERICAN MARKETS. MANY PART-TIME CONSULTING ANOOR RESEARCH ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE DURING SCHOOL YEAR. SOME FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE AFTER GRADUATION. FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED DEGREES WELCOMED. EXPERIENCE IN SCIENTIFIC AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FIELDS ESPECIALLY SOUGHT BY CLIENTS. 
FOR PROMPT CONSIDERATION PLEASE SEND RESUME AND PHONE NUMBER TO: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION P.O. BOX A-3629 CHICAGO, IL 60690 
OUR CLIENTS PAY ALL FEES. THERE IS NO COST TO APPLICANTS. 
A MASTEAPIECI! .. ONE OF THE eEeT AND 8AIOHTEiiT 
OF MODERN AMERICAN filMS" -........., .. , 1011 

~e~ 
\• 
~·~ ' Onct'

Unhelle'Wallte f.'t_ ~· 


~­

TONITE AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:45 nJESDAY 9:00 
OPEN CllY (1945) Monday9:00 Roberto Rossellini's classic of Italian neo-reallsm examines the human emotions of those In Europe during WWIL 

the Soviets give equal weight to human rights in any negotia­tions between the North Atlan­tic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact to reduce troops, tanks and other conventional armaments from the Atlantic Ocean to the Ural Mountains in the Sovet Union. 
"We have specific proposals in many areas," Shevardnadze said, adding that the discus­sions here would cover nuclear and space weapons and con­ventional armaments and chemical weapons as well. 
Even before his arrival, some U.S. officials were opti-. mistic that an agreement ~ould be reached on verifying com­pliance with a 1976 treaty to limit underground nuclear tests for so-called peaceful pur­poses to 150 kilotons. 
The idea is to clear the way for Reagan to submit the treaty to the Senate for ratification before he1leaves office in Jan­uary. 
Wrapping up a treaty to reduce long-range nuclear mis­siles is a much tougher and more important task. Reagan had hoped to complete the ac­cord during his second term as evidence that he is committed to rolling back the nuclear arms race. 
Last year, Reagan and Gor­bachev signed another treaty to abolish all U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range nuclear weapons. 
ND Communication and Theatre Film Series at 1he Snlte Museum 
THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE (1962) Tonight 7:30. 9'A5 An American Glls captured and brainwashed durtng the Korean War. then sent back to the US In a sinister plot to take owr the country. Frank Sinatra and Janet lehigh stcr n ths thriller which was acclaimed by critics at this yea(s New York Film Festival. 
PLAYnME (1967) Monday 7:00 Comedic director Jacques Tatl plays Mr. Hulot a he accompanies a group of American women who confront the complex~les of IWe in u~ramodem Paris. 
LAURA (1944) Tuesday 7:00 A methodical detective Investigates the murder of femme fatale Gene Tlemey only to have the corpse tum up alive. Otto Premlnger directs this polished, wttty approach to murder. 
CASAIILANCA (1942) Tuesday 9:00 Humphrey Bogart. lngrtd Bergman. Intrigue. Romance. Nolthlng else needs to be said. See ~I 
TUESDAY 7:00 CAli THE FILM HOTLINE 239-7361 
ADWORKS 
AP Photo
Head Above Water? 

Democratic presidential candidate Michael Dukakis tells Arkansas Democrats on Monday in Little Rock that many Americans are "treading water" after eight years of Reagan administration economic policies. 
FINALLYI 
A Book That Makes the History of Our Times Intelligible! 
BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR: 
CHURCH, STATE and FREEMASONRY IN AMERICA 
by Paul A. Fisher Former Bureau Chief for The Wanderer and Veteran journalist of the Catholic Press 
Behind The Lodge Door lifts the veil on the subterranean war waged against Church and State by the Masonic Fraternity for over 200 years -even in­fluencing U.S. Supreme Court decisions. 
An amazing and well docu­mented expose of a mysterious international organization whose impact on history has been so studiously (and curious­ly) ignored by historians. 
Fisher, a graduate of the Uni­


versity of Notre Dame, served Price: $}895 
per copywith OSS in Washington, North 
!Add $2.05 postage & handling)
Africa and Italy during World 
DISCOUNTS:
War II, and with Army Counter­
2-4 books. 15%: 5 books. 25%

Intelligence in the U.S. and Korea. Prior to his journalistic career, which began in 1973, he was Legislative Assistant and Press Officer for the late Con­gressman James J. Delaney (D., N.Y.). 
"A brilliant expose of the hidden power that Freemasonry has in the past and still is exerting so successfully to de-Christianize America. This is MUST reading .•." (Fr. Vincent Miceli, Ph.D., Christendom College). 
"Fisher knows how to do research and how to weigh facts, and those skills give his work a sense of balance and sobriety that make it as persuasive as it is alarming . ... {He] shows con­clusively that Oustice Hugo L.] Black's Everson opinion is un­hlstoricai. unconstitutional. and deliberately concocted out of Masonic dogma . .••" (Michael Schwartz, The Wanderer). 
READER REACTION: 
"In the last 35 years I've read quite extensively about Masonry. Your Book is the best." ]VB, California 
"A wonderful book. I hope you sell a million." PEH, florida 
''Your book needs to be gotten out to as many Catholics as possible and to other Christian Americans willing to listen.'' EL, Florida 
''I think that the Catholic Church should be grateful for your research." BLH, Indiana 
----------ORDER FORM--------­
SHIELD PUBLISHING CO. 
P.O. Box 90181 
Washington, D.C. 20090 

Send copy(ies) of BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR 
(at $18.95, plus $2.05 for postage and handling to: 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State _____ Zip _____ 
Amount enclosed: $.______ 





The Observer I Jim Brake

Extra! Extra! 

Two South Bend "newsboys" pedal between Keenan and Zahm Hall, delivering copies of the South Bend Tribune to ND students. 


tllt!TTIIE 

illDffi[!flJWill)J 
exclusively at Theodore's This week's drink special: FUZZY IRISHMEN 
(open the same hours as Theodore's) 
The Observer page 7 
Savings institutions post $7.5 billion loss, bailout urged 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The nation's savings institutions lost $7.5 bil­lion in the first half of this year, the government reported yes­terday, as a Senate leader called for the· biggest federal bailout in history. 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board said S&Ls lost $3.6 billion in the April-June quar­ter, a modest improvement over the $3.9 billion loss of the. first quarter. 
Nevertheless, the industry in only the first half of the year is already approaching the post­Depression record loss of $7.8 billion for all of 1987. 
Senate Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire, D-Wis., who is retiring after building a reputation as a penny-pinching legislator during 31 years in office, said yesterday that the next Congress will have to appropri­ate at least $20 billion -about $81 for every man, woman and child in the country -to bail out the industry. 
And healthy S&Ls, which 

Burnley blames deregulation for high airfares, local domination 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Members of a Senate committee faulted air­line deregulation yesterday for raising airfares for many Americans and leaving some cities dominated by carriers that control local air service. 
But Transportation Secre­have been paying to close or merge failed institutions so far, will have to eontribute an ad­ditional $30 billion, he said. 
"The bailout-to-come will be the largest ever in the history of the U.S. It will be far bigger than the combined cost of the assistance to Chrysler (Corp.), Lockheed (Corp.) and New York City," he said. 
The bank board report and Proxmire's statement came within a week of several new -and larger than previous ­estimates of the cost of clean­ing up the thrift industry. 
The General Accounting Of­fice, Congress' auditing arm, says it will cost $45 billion to $50 billion. The American Bankers Association, the trade group for commercial banks, says $74 billion, and some private analysts put the cost as high as $100 billion. The bank board says it intends in October to raise its $31 billion projec­tion. 
Meanwhile, Treasury Secre­tary Nicholas Brady on Wed­nesday directed a top deputy, Undersecretary George Gould, 
most Americans are asked if deregulation has been helpful, "you'll find an overwhelming perception that the country has benefited enormously." 
Burnley's defense, however, did little to ease the concerns of members of the committee, many of whom come from sparsely populated states. 
"My fares have zoomed up, up and away, and my service has gone down," said Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., chair­man of the panel. 

Hollings said it now costs him $510 to fly from Charleston, S.C., to Washington, compared with $120 in 1977, before deregulation, which marks its lOth anniversary next month. 
Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., said it costs $269 to fly from Aberdeen, S.D., to Rapid City, S.D., while a Washington to Los Angeles ticket can cost $239. 
"That is a very bizarre result," he said. "Our small cities and towns are really suf­fering from this thing." 
Sen. John Danforth of Mis­souri, ranking Republican on the committee, also com­plained that some airlines have been able to dominate air traf­fic so thoroughly in individual cities that "competition doesn't really exist." 


COUNTRY HARVESTER 
DISTRIBUTOR FpR MOUNTAIN MAN FRUIT AND NUT CO. 
10%, OFF ALL TRAIL MIXES 
to independently assess the conflicting estimates. 
That would be the first step in a possible re-evaluation of the administration's stance, which has been that the Federal Savings and Loan In­surance Corp. has as much money as it can efficiently spend well into next year. 
At a time when the adminis­tration is struggling to reduce the federal budget deficit, the question of how much must be spent on S&Ls is becoming in­creasingly critical. 
Since mid-August alone, the bank board has pledged nearly $13 billion in assistance to resolve the cases of more than 50 institutions. Because FSLIC lacks the cash to complete res­cue packages, its aid is coming in the form of prommissory notes and guarantees against certain kinds of future loss. 
According to figures released last week at a House Banking Committee hearing, FSLIC has more than $19 bil­lion in outstanding commit­ments. 
He said Congress must detel'­mine ''whether deregulation is truly working and if it's not working, what are we supposed to do about it." 
With the 1986 merger be­tween Trans World Airlines and Ozark Air Lines, TWA con­trols 82 percent of traffic at Lambert-St. Louis Interna­tional Airport. A report released Tuesday by the Gen­eral Accounting Office, an in­vestigating arm of Congress, found that after the merger, the number of St. Louis routes served by two or more carriers fell from 64 to 36, while TWA fares from the city grew by 13 percent to 18 percent. 
Alfred Kahn, who was chief of the now-defunct Civil Aeronautics Board in 1978 when deregulation was created, told the senators that "the airline industry is today far more competitive than it was under regulation." 
To deal with problems faced by cities dominated by individ­ual airlines, he suggested toug­her enforcement of antitrust laws when airline mergers are being considered, allowing foreign airlines to purchase American carriers, and taxing frequent flyer tickets to dis­courage repeated use of the same airline. 
tary Jim Burnley told the Sen­ate Commerce Committee that even though "the airline indus­try has its flaws," nearly 10 years of deregulation has benefited most travelers. 
"Overall the airline industry has become much more com­petitive as to price and service as a result of economic deregulation," Burnley told the legislators. 
Burnley cited statistics showing that since 1978, domes­tic air traffic has grown from 275 million passengers to more than 450 million, while average fares have declined 13 percent, adjusted for inflation. 
The secretary said that if 


He ps stu ntsre ·eve stress. 
The stress of solving equations that run from here to Tierra del· Fuego. Of tracking the elusive quark. And of analyzing the strains placed on your average suspension bridge on a windy day. 
To all of you who must move moun­tains ofdata we offer the MacintoshA) II com­puter. Owning one is comparable to having a personal workstation or powerful main­frame sitting on your desk. 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And 
a 68881 math co-processor. Its memory .expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­
city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open-with six NuBus!M slots for communications, video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
All of which is good reason to do one simple thing the next time an assignment has you stressed out: Plug one in. 
The power 
to be .., your best~ 
© 19RX Apple Compuler.lnc. Apple. tbe Apple IOf!,o and ,1/acintosb are rep,i,·tered trademarks rf. and '71:;e {>Otrer to beyour /m{ i,· a trademark ofApple Computer. Inc ,\II!Jus is a trademark ff'li!m~ lnstnanen£,·. Inc. .ll\' iJO\' i,· a n.xi.,tenxl trademark ifMicmi'Oji Corporation 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 


--~-~ --------~-~------~----------_........ 
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
Calm prevails inShreveport 
following racial riots, arson 
Associated Press 
SHREVEPORT, La.-A civil rights leader says decades of racism and black unemploy­ment made it inevitable that Shreveport would see an out­break of violence like this week's rock-throwing and ar­son following the killing of a black man. 
"Shreveport's been dodging the bullet for 25 years," said Larry English of the local NAACP chapter. 
The violence Tuesday and Wednesday nights, set off when a white woman shot a black man, was confined to a few blocks in Cedar Grove, a mostly residential neighbor­hood of modest houses and small businesses about six miles from downtown. 
Police spokeswoman Cindy Chadwick said no problems were reported in Cedar Grove after dozens of heavily armed Special Response Team offi­cers left the area early yester­day. 
Police took down roadblocks that sealed off the area for about four hours Wednesday night, but Chadwick said beefed-up patrols were ready to seal off the area again if vio­lence resumed. 
The rioting was set off by the killing Tuesday night of William David McKinney, 22. 
A 17-year-old white girl was ar­rested and officials said the shooting followed a drug deal that went bad, with the victim an innocent bystander. 
Black leaders said another factor was anger over the kil­ling of a black teen-ager by a white teen-ager at a restaurant last month. 
And, they said, there was lin­gering frustration over the recent acquittal in west Texas of three law officers accused in the beating death of a Florien, La., black man arrested last Christmas Day on suspicion of drunk driving. 
But those three incidents were only catalysts, black leaders said. 
The Rev. E. Edward Jones, president of the National Bap­tist Convention and a long-time Shreveport civil rights leader, blamed long-standing "institu­tional racism" for the trouble. But he warned blacks against violence. 
"Destruction is not the way. We need reasoning and logic," said Jones. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson blamed the unrest on poverty and illiteracy. 
''They've had too much access to guns and drugs and too little access to jobs, to scholarships," Jackson said in Baton Rouge. 

l-fAPPYNESS 
R~ 
4609 GRAPE ROAD• MISHAWAKA 1/2 MILE SOUTH OF UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
MON.-THURS. 11 A.M.-9 P.M. FRI.-SAT.-11 A.M.-10 P.M. SUNDAY 11:30-8P.M. 
277-0369 • 272-4072 
CARRY OUTS AVAILABLE 


vs. Rice 
TONIGHT 7:30 
JACC Arena first 250 in gate receive free bumper stickers 

vs. Western Michigan 
TONIGHT 7:80 
Moose Krause Stadium 
IRISH ATHLETICS 
' More Than Just A Game 
• 


AP Photo ning when police decided to secure the Cedar Grove neighborhood after violence broke out at a conveni­ence store. See story at left. 
Senate Democrats fail to defeat fillibuster on minimum wage bill 
Associated Press include a subminimum wage full-time students who work no 
for new hires, said the issue more than 20 hours a week. 
WASHINGTON-Senate needs extended debate. Since then, there have been Democrats failed yesterday to "I know a little bit about no votes in five days of debate. break a Republican filibuster filibustering and I've certainly Under the Senate's rules, ap­of a bill to raise the $3.35-an­led my share around here," proval of Kennedy's substitute hour minimum wage for the Hatch said. "But I only lead would effectively kill what first time since 1981. them on very, very important Republicans call a sub­
On a 53-43 vote -six short of issues where WE~ really have to minimum training wage that the 60 needed -the Senate have extended debate or what President Reagan and Vice refused to limit to 30 more I would call extended educa­President George Bush have hours debate on legislation by tional dialogue. This particular coupled to their approval of any Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­bill needs a lot of that." increase in the $3.35 wage floor. Mass., to raise the wage floor A week ago, Hatch intro­to $3.75 in January, $4.15 in 1990 duced the first Republican "We're not going to get a fair and $4.55 in 1991. . amendment in the debate -a 90-hearing on the training wage 
"It's only clear that there is day, 80 percent subminimum because the labor leaders don't adeliberate attempt to stall ac­wage applicablle to all new want it," said Senate Republi­tion on this bill," said Majority hires. can Leader Bob Dole of Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., Kansas. "It's not the who called the Republican tac­As a parliamentary tactic, Republicans versus the tics a filibuster. Kennedy immediately offered Democrats; it's the 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-utah, a substitute amendment Republicans versus the labor the leader of the Republican op­slightly expanding a currently leaders. They're telling us we position to any increase in the allowed, but little used, 85 per­can take this or leave it; we're minimum wage that does not cent subminimum wage for not going to pla1 that game." 
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH HIRING 75 TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
*Days 9am-5pm Offered August 20 -November 7 *Evening 5pm-l Opm Year-round lOpm-lam Offered August 20-November 7 *Weekends Morning, Afternoon, Evening-Y~::ar-round $4.00-$12.00 I hour 
121 S. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd Fl. 219-282-2754 
r·------~­

This week: 

Enjoy~ niglhts of dancing­
Friday and Saturday Music by Campus D.J.'s 
Friday and Saturday: 9-2 
Then on sunday it's: SPORTS SUNDAY 
presenting: The Notre Dame vs. Purdue -game replayed for your enjoyment 
Don't forget to visit the HIDEAWAY-a Theodore's exclusive Drink special this week: FUZZY IRISHMEN 
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
Quayle . cautions againSt 
QIVIng 1n 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Republican vice presidential candidate Dan Quayle said yesterday that perestroika in the Soviet Union has yet to live up to its promise, and he cautioned against making unilateral concessions to the Soviets at the arms table. 
The Indiana senator wrapped up a four-day swing across the West with what aides billed as a major foreign policy address, and he used a Teleprompter for the first time since his convention accep­tance speech. 
In a foreign policy speech earlier this month in Chicago, Quayle discarded his text and gave a rambling, discursive address. 
Addressing 1,300 people at a Los Angeles World Mfairs Council luncheon, Quayle made no mention of Michael Dukakis, the Democratic presidential candidate. But he criticized several Dukakis foreign policy and defense stances. 
Quayle said Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev recognizes that "without major changes, the Soviet Union could well en­ter the next century ... (like) a Third World nation." 
Of perestroika, or restructur­ing, he said, "Like the book of the same name, actual content has so far not lived up to the advance press notices." 
Americans should judge the Soviets' actions by whether they pull back from "global 'pot stirring"' in Mghanistan, Angola, Nicaragua and other places, he said. 
He called the Soviet radar station at Krasnoyarsk a bla­tant violation of the ABM treaty and it should be dis­mantled immediately, not turned into an international space tracking station as Gor­bachev recently suggested. 
He also urged the Soviets to demonstrate their seriousness on arms control by reducing their long-range SS-18 missiles and their new, mobile SS-24s and SS-25s. 
And Gorbachev should "show his good faih by renouncing the Brezhnev Doctrine unequivocally" and agreeing to a pullback of Soviet troops from Eastern Europe, he said. Because of the current imbalance of Soviet and NATO forces, the Soviets must pull back more troops, Quayle said. 
ije also called for the Soviets 
to allow freedom to emigrate 
"for Jews and refuseniks and 
anyone else." 
"One does not deal with the 
Soviet Union by unilaterally · removing negotiating leverage before the negotiations even begin," he said, in what ap­peared to be a reference to Dukakis' opposition to the mobile MX and Midgetman 
missiles. 
Turning to Star Wars, he said 
the proposed space-based mis­
sile defense system "is not a 
'fantasy' or a 'fraud' or a 
'gizmo' as some have called 
it." 
"It is the margin of survival 
for American citizens if a nu­
clear missile, whether by 
design or accident, is ever 
launched against our land," he 
said. 

USS Vincennes rescues 26 Vietnamese refugees at sea-
Associated Press 
WASHING'tON-The USS Vincennes, the Navy cruiser that mistakenly shot down an Iranian airliner over the Per­sian Gulf, rescued 26 Viet­namese refugees from a sinking fishing junk early yes­terday in the South China Sea, officials said. 
Dan Howard, the Defense Department spokesman, said the guided-missile cruiser was steaming in heavy seas wheri a lookout spotted a burning torch. After changing course, the Vincennes "found a small, double-ended junk carrying 26 Vietnamese refugees," the spokesman said. 
"The commanding officer determined the vessel to be un­seaworthy and took all 26 people aboard," Howard said. 
· Shortly after the 26 were rescued, "the boat broke apart 
School 
continued from page 1 
.38-caliber handgun at Chestnut and shot him in the hand. Chestnut was in good condition at Cook County Hospital, said spokeswoman Wanda Robertson. 
Henderson headed for Mon­tefiore, a school serving about 135 troubled boys, where he shot and killed custodian Ar­thur Baker, 33, who was outside the building. 
At the door he met Mrs. Ruiz and officer Greg Jaglowski, 38, who had been called to the school to deal with an unruly youth. Ms. Ruiz was felled with a bullet to the chest and Jaglowski was shot in the legs. 
"The offender retreated to a room, emptied out the empty shells from his revolver and reloaded with six fresh rounds," Martin said. 
When Henderson came back into the hall, he exchanged fire with Jaglowski, who shot him twice in the chest. Police found 22 more rounds of ammunition on Henderson. 

to Soviet demands 
and sank" in heavy seas, he cruiser rescued five Iranian said. fishermen who had been adrift "They were literally spotted in a small dinghy for more than in the nick of time," added Lt. a week after their boat sank. 
Cmdr. Craig Quigley, a Navy spokesman. 
"They had been adrift for 15 days and were out of food;:-out of water and subsisting on rain water. And as soon as they got on board the Vincennes, their boat sank." 
The V-incennes is transport­ing the refugees to its next port of call, the Subic Bay Naval Base in the Philippines. 
According to Quigley, one of the refugees spoke some En­glish and told his rescuers the group had begun its voyage from the city of Tra Vinh in the southern section of what used to be South Vietnam. 
The rescue was the second for the Vincennes in two months. Early in August, the 
Classified 
continued from page 15 
Scott C. Ever since Saturday, room 261 has not been the same. The late night beer talks, the movies, and the insuns have been lackluster without you. These are just a few of the many things that have been affected. So many people miss you --so many care. So please, Scott, make our temporary triple a quad again I Tim, John, and Mike 
SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX Now that I have your attention--! need 2 
Stanford tkts.--GA's Kevin X3316  or  student--Call  
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SCHUSTER!!  CAROLYN  

THANKS FOR SATISFYING OUR EVERY PHYSICAL NEED I LOVE, NOES 
B-6Since this is your !irs! personal, I wanted it to be as personal as possible... 
43 53638332 936382 61213153931111 M• 
ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS NE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDENTS: Spruce up your yarda and help to beautify your neighborhood. BUY DAFFODILS TODAY 1-t p.m. 603 N Notr11 Dame Avenue 
K-LOVE IS WONDERING WHAT HE'S DOING RIGHT NOW ...THIS VERY MO­MENT....Charles Schulz I MISS YOU. 
T. 
Lonely Guy, Hi I I'm lonely, too, but I wish there was a better way to do this. 
GREG MATEO HAS A CUTE BEHIND 
I LOVE YOU TOO, BROGSIII 
······!························································· 
Do be do!lilt's Theresa "Tree• Barnhart's 2111 No more UA-RA for this girl!! SMWEET!! nis going to be scar-Y! We love you!! 
SOPHOMORES HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TO A DANCE WITH JUST SOPHOMORES?? GET INVOLVED WITH YOUR CLASS FALL FORMAL OCT. 7 
TOP 10 REASONS TO MEET MIKE CALLAHAN 
10. In hla naxt life he'll be an ltellan hunk. 
9. He knowa Kathy, Michelle, and Peg­
gy. · 8. Hla reah haa cteered up. 
7. Hla mom's name Ia Peggy. 
6. He bellevea In "JUSTICE". 
5. He doean't live In Dillon. 
4. His blrthdey Ia March 16. 
3. He'a not Hipskind, Kennedy1 Dlzzer, or Ward. 
2. He has a sweet . 
1. Hla dad Ia teken. 
j
··································••••············•············· 
REMINDER TO All F.A.C. MEM­BERS ... MEETING TONITE 5 PM YOU KNOW WHERE 
The UNDERGROUND presents John Tyler An Acoustic Variety ol An Acoustic Va­riety of Rock This Friday Night 9:30 p.m. Grace Hall Basement across from Sarge's An UNDERGROUND production 
Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallegher This is your new nickname. Uve with it. You will never get rid of ~­
Your secret admirer 

COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
When you need a full service copy shop before work or after hours, depend on Kinko's. 
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23 
271-Q398 
O~'tWt'LL 
CHIIIE.SE·liiUICAII RESTAUUIIT ~cSzechuen,lhnd.rln a Hun.n Culelnel 
Lunches starting at_ ____ $3.45 Dinners starting aL _____ $4.95 Reslaaranf open 7 days 
Mon.-Thura.ll:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.·SuLI1:30 am to II pm Sun. &Holidays 11:30 am to 10 pm 
"" 130 Dixie Hwy., Boacalan.cl (next to Ranclall'aiDn) ·272-7376 
,. ..... .... ........ 

... ,.. ..... ..... ..... ..... ~'V'~'V'~'V'I.,..,'V'IN"'N'-"'N'-"'~~~~¥~¥~¥~~~~;v'V'I.w 

··························································································································································································································································· 
FRESHMEN LECTURE SERIES 
A series prese~ted by the freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the Intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
DR. LLOYD H. KETCHUM Professor of Civil Engineerin~ 
"AN ENGINEER\.NG EXAMPLE: A HISTORY OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL" 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1988 7:30PM. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................J 
\ , ~ ' ,. . 


The Observer Weekend Edition, September 23-25 


Time 
TV & Radio 
Tickets 

AP Rankings Series Last Game 
at 

12:10 p.m. COT 
WGN-TV (Dan Rqan, Paul Hornung, John Mengelt) Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) WVFI-AM 640 
Game is sold out (capacity 59,075) 
Notre Dame 8th Purdue unranked 
Notre Dame leads, 36-21-2 First game in 1896 
September 26, 1987 Notre Dame 44, Purdue 20 
NO's tiny hero making the grade on and off field 
Ho is perfect so far 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
For Reggie Ho, six out of six is nothing. 
Notre Dame's miniature walk-on field goal kicker is used to scoring 100 out of 100. That's how he earned nearly a 
3.8 grade-point average as a pre-med major over his first three years at Notre Dame. 
But now the 5-5, 135-pounder is kicking field goals and pul­ling out last-minute victories for the Fighting Irish. And when you're doing that, six out of six adds up just fine. 
Ho tied the Notre Dame single-game record by making four field goals, including a game-winning 26-yard boot with one minute and 13 seconds left, as Notre Dame edged Mic­higan 19-17 in the season opener two weeks ago. He added two more last week in a 20-3 Irish triumph over Michigan State, and has been perfect on three extra points in those victories. 
But the senior from Kaneohe, Hawaii, insists on keeping a low profile and a high GPA. 
"I'm just an ordinary, 
" 

average guy," says Ho, who calls reporters 'Sir,' gives credit for his success to every­one but himself and spends many hours a day in the li­brary. 
"I've got to study," says Ho, who has ambitions of becoming a doctor and perhaps joining the Peace Corps. 
Two years ago, Ho dec;ided he was doing enough studying. He kicked for his high school team during his junior and senior years, and decided in the fall semester of his sophomore year at Notre Dame that he wanted to give college football a try. 
The Notre Dame coaching staff suggested Ho kick for Cavanaugh's Interhall team during the fall season and give varsity a shot in the spring. Ho did just that. He practiced al­most every day and made the team in the spring of 1987. He kicked a 42-yard field goal in the 1987 Blue-Gold game and hit the upright with a 48-yard attempt later in the contest. 
"I never thought I could play 
see REGGIE, page 3 


The Observer I File Photo 

Purdue safety Marc Foster Is tied for the national lead with three Interceptions this year. 

Irish senior placekicking wizard Reggie Ho boots one of his four field goals against Michigan out of the hold of Pete Graham. Ho Is perfect on six 
Boilermaker pass defense takes over for tQp offense of the past 
By DOUG GRIFFITHS Purdue Exponent 
In 1985, Purdue had the second-best pass offense in the country, but how times change. 
Now the Boilers have the country's No. 1 pass defense. 
Although the Boilers have played just two games, their statistics are impressive. Purdue opponents have com­pleted only 8-of-34 passes (23 percent) for 118 yards (59 per game), with six interceptions and two touchdowns. 
Much of the team's early suc­cess defending the pass is due to the play of senior safeties Marc Foster (10 tackles this season) and Ronnie Beeks (12 tackles). Both have picked off three passes, tying them for the national lead in that category. 
"I've said all along that Marc Foster is one of the top safeties in this country," Purdue Coach Fred Akers said at his weekly teleconference Tuesday. "He is deserving of All-American mention." 

Considering the fact that Beeks was sidelined last season because of academic in­eligibility, his play has been an added bonus for the Boilers. 
"What he (Beeks) has been doing has really been a pleas­ant surprise for us," Akers said. "He gives us some strength not only in the pass defense, but in defending against the run. His impact on our football team can be felt more against the run than anything else." 
Purdue scored defensive honors in the Big Ten as well. It leads the conference in total defense (242.5 yards) and ranks second in the league in scoring defense (15 points). 
The defensive secondary isn't the only thing making noise these days in West Lafayette. The Boiler rushing attack has accounted for over 50 percent of their touchdown total so far this season. 
Three of Purdue's five touch­downs have come by the way of the ground attack. The Boilers have rushed for 349 yards this season (174.5 yards per game) with a 4.2 yards per carry average. 
Akers credits the success of the rushing attack to two areas: the interior of the offen­sive line and the backfield. 
"Bruce Crites has played very well at center," Akers 
see BOILERS, page 3 

~------------·----~~---------------------------------------~ 
·····-~----··-·"· . -------··--.............................----------------------·-·· --------·--................_........ . .................... . 
Irish Extra: The Game 
~2~~~.1!J lUll Ill !!II iflllllillfl!llll ..
--lll®IIM\I!Il-~i------illl!!!>liilll!lll!llillllllll!l!liil---------------!;a-·W·e~e-k·e-nd·E·d-iti·o·n·,SlileUJ,e~t-emiilriilbiiiler~.a.2-.2-~l-~~-.~-8­
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame already has played two of the present Big Ten powers in this young season. This Saturday, the Irish will see the future of the lately inept league. 
Purdue, once a perennial threat and most recently one of the doormats in the Big Ten, will bring a stable of young tal­ent into Notre Dame Stadium 
(12:10 p.m., WGN, WNDU). 
"They're a much-improved football team," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "I know Purdue plays us exceptionally well and they're a very talented football team. There's no doubt that they're getting better." 
It is the rebuilding era of Fred Akers in West Lafayette, and if Akers' track record is any indication, this team may be only a few years away from playing with the elite again. 
In two years at Wyoming, Akers went from 2-9 in 1975 to 8-4 in 1976 and a Fiesta Bowl appearance against Oklahoma. At Texas, he was 86-31-2 during his 10-year tenure. Akers sported a 3-7-1 mark in his first season at Purdue. The Boilers are currently 1-1 after a 20-6 loss to Washington and a 33-10 victory over Ohio last Satur­day. 
"It will be quite an uphill bat­tle for us in South Bend,'' Akers said. "This is a big traditional game and Purdue has played Notre Dame tough for many years. This will be a big chal­lenge for us and an opportunity to improve." 
The Irish, still ranked No. 8 in the country, will be going for a sweep of its 1988 Big Ten op­ponents. They downed Mic­higan 19-17 in the season­opener and Michigan State 20-3 last Saturday in East Lansing. 
Even with the Irish apparent favorites on paper, the Boilers have a history of pulling the big upset in the battle for the Shil­lelagh. Since 1950, Purdue has defeated then No. 1 Notre Dame teams five times. Purdue's 21 wins against the Irish trail only Southern Cal's 23. 
Notre Dame offense vs. Purdue defense 
The passing game is still the big question surrounding the Notre Dame offense. In two games, Irish quarterback Tony Rice is only 5-of-21 through the air for 90 yards. Add to those statistics the fact Purdue has the No. 1 pass defense in the country, and Notre Dame's passing woes could continue this week. Purdue's opponents have completed only 8-of-34 passes for 118 yards and two touchdowns. 
"We have to be able to throw the football," Holtz said. "What really frustrates a co­ach is the lack of consistency. We do it enough times well (in practice) and occasionally in the game, but we do not do it on a consistent basis. The one thing you cannot tolerate as a coach is inconsistency. If you're going to throw the sucker in the eighth row of the stands, then do it every single time." 
The Boilers boast one of the best secondaries in the country. Safeties Marc Foster and Ronnie Beeks each have three interceptions, tying them for the national lead. Foster needs only three more thefts to become the all-time Purdue leader in that category. 
With the status of the passing situation, Notre Dame will resort once again.. to the run­ning game. A questionable of­fensive line has matured quickly for the Irish in the first two games, becoming one of the team's dominating forces. Paced by senior tri-captain Andy Heck and junior Tim Grunhard, the line at times has allowed the backs to run at will in wins over Michigan and Mic­higan State. 
The backs have gained 524 yards on 97 attempts for an im­pressive average of 4.9 yards per carry. Tailback and tri­captain Mark Green is the Irish rushing leader with 202 yards. Tony Brooks will be forced into the fullback spot against Purdue because of injuries to Anthony Johnson and Braxston Banks. 
Banks is out indefinitely with a knee iqjury, while Johnson is doubtful for Saturday's game with a sprained ankle. Brooks, who took over at Michigan State after the i~uries, is playing in a· padded shoe be­cause of a fractured foot that will require surgery at the end of the season. 
"Tony Brooks stepping in at fullback was a very, very pos­itive sign," Holtz said. "We had his foot X-rayed and there's no change on it. I would like to think he's going to be able to go the rest of the year that way." 
Sophomore Darrin Trieb leads the Boiler defense with 25 total tackles, 20 unassisted. Senior outside linebacker Jer­rol Williams boasts 20 tackles, 15 unassisted. Even with the nation's best pass defense, the Boilers have not recorded a quarterback sack. 
Purdue offense vs. Notre Dame defense 
Notre Dame's defense con­tinues to be one of its strongest advantages. The Irish have at­lowed only 20 points in two vic­tories, holding the Michigan State offense silent in the second half last Saturday. That defense will get a test this week, though, as Purdue boasts a strong, two-dimensional at­tack. The Boilers average 179 yards per game through the air and 174.5 on the ground. Some­thing will have to give, with Notre Dame allowing only 114 yards per game against the run. 
Junior Shawn McCarthy anchors the offense at the quar­terb~ck spot. McCarthy, who also handles the punting duties, has already attempted 69 passes, completing 33 for 341 yards and two touchdowns. On the down side, opposing players have intercepted five of McCarthy's passes. 
Junior Calvin Williams is the leading receiver with nine catches for 121 yards and eight career touchdown receptions. 
Senior Scott Nelson is the leading rusher for the Boilers with 134 yards on 25 carries, while sophomore Jarrett Scales has gained 107 yards. Darrin Myles has scored three touch­downs while rushing for 52 yards. 
"They have a very balanced offense," Holtz said. "Anytime you play a balanced offense, it scares you. The jury's still out 
·on our ability to play against a team that can both run and pass." 
Michael Stonebreaker con­tinues to be the spark for the Notre Dame defense. He was 

· named the Sporting News de­fensive player of the week after the Michigan game and the AP Midwest defensive player of the week following last Satur­day's contest. Stonebreaker has recorded 33 tackles and returned an interception 39 yards for a touchdown to seal the win over the Spartans. George Williams, Chris Zorich and Jeff Alm will be the tackles for the Irish, while the ends are Frank Starns and hard-hitting Andre Jones. Zorich has 19 tackles, Williams 17 and Alm 15. Notre Dame's rotating linebackers remain among the best in the nation with Wes Pritchett, Ned Bolcar and Stonebreaker. 
~ ~ -:x>::/rilf ~ 







Akers enters his second The All-America and Jim ~eason as head coach of the Thorpe Award candidate is tied Boilermakers. He led Texas to for the national lead in intercep­nine bowl games in 10 years at tions with three. Foster was All-
the Longhorn helm. Big Ten last vear. 
1

~:::.'.':)o''jj"~·~·~~:::·;):f"(~J.-:.·~~·...;1;._. ,'; .,. _":.'··:· ~.·. :~.-"""·;~~···._::,~~ J2.iJI7 * 

Marc Foster (FS) 


Jerrol Williams (OLB) 
A 1987 honorable mention All-Big Ten defender, Williams made 102 tackles last year and is second on the team with 20 this season. 
J u a -! 111111 

Bruce Crites (C) Shawn McCarthy (QB) 
The 6-3, 249-pound senior is The 6-6 McCarthy throws well the most experienceG Boiler from the pocket and is 33-of-69 lineman, starting all 11 games for 341 yards in two games this at center last year. He started year. He is also Purdue's top 
11 ga!TI(f ~~iuard in J986, 11111ru:;": ~N~ 

Irish Extra 
~~~!J~£~~~:w,, 7_";-:;;,,,~~-""·-:--!<...,_...-----·""'"··~~':"~'~~~>";·~;\IG~""''"i<-"'·""l'"·'~-~'"""'·\Ji·\~·""~\!ll<og~~~~~~~...u·e·~-,,!ll~lllm_!.a!JI~·e-1--..
_• ... _ =~~~~~--r·e:m·;~ 

said. "He is a much-improved '-" ·•i for the team," Ho admits. "I foot is whether he can split the footbal player. And both our just wanted to be on the team. uprights from outside 40 yards guards (Jason) Cegielski (a t • It was kind of frustrating at as well as he does from inside former Irish lineman) and first, but I never considered that range. Holtz says sopho­(Derick) Schmidt, are very ,,.,,,,.,. quitting. I decided I didn't want more kickoff man Billy Hack-quick and agile. They are -. to be a geek." ett will try the longer field giving us some opporunities ''-11' Ho's only action last year goals, but Ho is ready if called that we didn't have." was a third-quarter extra point upon. 
Running back Scott Nelson against Navy. But working as "I'll try it from 60 yards if leads the Boilers in rushing. a back-up to Ted Gradel, an-Coach Holtz tells me to," Ho He's gained 134 yards on 25 other walk-on who worked his says. carries (5.4 yards per carry). way into an eventual starting 
•

Jarrett Scales has rushed for 98 role as a fifth-year senior, was yards on 27 carries. Darren a valuable experience for Ho. Reggie Ho Myles has gained 48 yards on ~ "Whenever I would get and his golden toe 17 carries and has all three frustrated or get down, Ted Kicked the butt rushing touchdowns. would help me out," Ho recalls. of a guy named 'Bo.' 
"<The backs) are all showing "Not so much on how to kick, 
--Father Matthew Miceli

what a year of practice and ex-but more on learning the sys-
Cavanaugh Hall Rector

perience does for you," Akers 
tern and working hard all the 
-
from "Mighty Ho"

time." said. "They're just better Ho's most nervous moment backs than they were at this came in those days, when he If anyone knows about Ho's time a year ago." first kicked in front of Irish toe it's Miceli. The Cavanaugh 
In the Ohio game, Purdue head coach Lou Holtz. Hall rector was there when Ho, received a blow to its experi­"I was more nervous when I then a sophomore, kicked the enced depth. kicked in front of Coach Holtz field goal that gave Cavanaugh 
Sophomore quarterback than I was in the Michigan its first Interhall football points Mark Maschech will miss the game," Ho says. in more than three years. rest of the season after break­He came through on both oc-Cavanaugh went on to beat ing his right leg just above the casions. Alumni, 3-0, and Ho got his first ankle in last weekend's contest. taste of fame around the dorm.
•

Freshman Brian Fox replaces "I was very honored to help Maschech as the No. 2 quarter­Late-night motorists thought Cavanaugh finally win a back. Reggie Ho was crazy one eve­game," Ho says. 
ning in 1986. But now that Cavanaugh's 
Although Fox is young and While still playing Interhall new hero (no offense, Tim lacks experience, Akers has football and dreaming of the Brown) is kicking varsity field confidence in his future. day he would wear a varsity goals, the Interhall team is 
"Brian is a good young quar­uniform, Ho worked obses­scrambling. Cavanaugh had terback prospect," Akers said. sively to turn his dream into a the ball inside the five-yard line "The two key words there are reality. Late one night, he and and failed to score in last ­
'young' and ·prospect.' He's got a friend walked to the Athletic weekend's 0-0 tie against Zahm
The Observer 1 File Photo

the size (6-5, 205 pounds). He's and Convocation Center to kick Hall. 
Junior quarterback Shawn McCarthy, who led the Boilermakers In
strong and he can pick things footballs into a net, but found "We would have won with 
up well, but he's just totally punting the last two years, has thrown for 341 yards in two games the building locked up for the Reggie," Miceli says.without experience." this season. night. But Ho is doing a good job of 
On their way back, the two adjusting to football at the col­spotted lights in one of the lege level. His formula is parking lots on Juniper Road simple: give your snapper,

Montana 'miraculous' in 1977 
and decided to turn the lot into holder and linemen all the a football field. credit for success, take all the
Irish slip past Purdue 31-24 en route to national title -,,It was the only place with blame for bad snaps and holds 
lights," Ho explains. "People (figure that one out), call By VIC LOMBARDI Comeback Kid, Joe Montana, Purdue opened . a 10-point thought we were nuts." reporters 'Sir,' and sacrifice Sports Writer administered an Irish come­lead on a 32-yard field goal by That was in the fall, almost your body, no matter how 
from-behind victory over Scott Sovereen and an eight­two full years before Ho kicked small, for the good of the team.
DATELINE: Sept. 24, 1977, Purdue, 31-24. He did it by put­yard touchdown pass from under the lights of Notre Dame But above all, study.
West Lafayette, Ind. ting 17 points on the scoreboard freshman phenom Mark Her­Stadium against Michigan. In the lockerroom after the in only 17 minutes of action. mann to Reggie Arnold. Ho also hq,s been known to Michigan game, .Ho spottedAfter having to sit out the By this time, Devine was dis­kick in the snow, but now the Greg Bisignani, a studentTime tV\ previous season because of a satisfied with Lisch's produc­Loftus Indoor Athletic Facility Sports Information Depart­
shoulder separation, Montana tion and replaced him with gives him a warmer climate in ment worker who is in one of
Capsule V 
was relegated to third-string Forystek. But it seems Purdue the winter. Ho's classes and was gatheringsignal-caller, behind quarter­linebacker Fred Arrington was "No one works harder than quotes from Ho. _backs Rusty Lisch and Gary offended by this quarterback Reggie Ho," Irish coach Lou Reggie greeted him with:
They called it the "Miracle Forystek. But Notre Dame change, so he knocked Forys­Holtz says. "Reggie kicks "Hi Greg. Have you studiedof Montana.'' 
coach Dan Devine sought the tek out of the game. every single day. He kicks your Musculoskeletal AnatomyIt was the 1977 National arm of Montana to help rally every day even in the winter. I yet?"
see MONTANA, page 4
Championship season when the his team. 

TAILBACK 24 Mark Green 5 Rodney Culver 
Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 40 Tony Brooks 35 Ryan Mihalko 

FLANKER 12 Ricky Watters ~ QUARTERBACK 
SPLITEND13 Pat Eilers 9 Tony Rice 80 Steve Alaniz

TIGHT END TACKLE 17 Kent GrahamTACKLE ,. 88 Frank Jacobs 66 Andy Heck 71 Dean Brown 
,.~~'"''" 
B6Do"k ~ J J",. ,. ~
J""'" H~ 

CENTER 
GUARD 55 Mike Heldt GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 75 Tim Grunhard 53 Winston Sandri 56 Ted Healy 
Boilermaker Defense 
TACKLE TACKLE DEFENSIVE END 99 Bill Hilchcock 72 Kris Burns DEFENSIVE END 43 Scolt Conover 90 Lonnte Palelel 
b~s· seys ~:::.::...CK.. 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 47 Jerrol Wtlliams 44 Tyrone Starks 39 Trent Decatur 
48 Jim Schwantz
F4

MIDDLE LINEBACKER . ~ , 
55 Darrin Trieb ~ 39 Trent Decatur W CORNERBACKCORNERBACK 
1 Steve Jackson ~-{!.) 2 Derrick Kelson 26 Julian Wagner FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 8 Tony Brown 
31 Marc Foster 3 Ronnie Beeks 
30 Brad Davis 11 Terry Johnson
t...---------------------=-o,......,;;;......,......,..-.t:­
Boilermaker Offense 
RUNNINGBACK RUNNINQBACK36 Scott Nelson 22 Jarrett Scales 
33 Darren Myles 12 Ray Graham 
FLANKER SPLITEND 88 Calvin Williams QUARTERBACK 80 Todd Moore 10 Robert Oglesby TACKLE ~ 5 Shawn McCarthy 81 Lance Scheib 
16 Brian Fox
f1\. 

76 Teko Johnson TACKLE 
~ 66ApandyTapylor 
p·p p~~~~C:T~~::':aann 
TIGHT END 84 Dwayne O'Conner ' 83 Kelly Turner CENTER 
GUARD 63 Bruce Crites GUARD 59' Jason Cegielski 51 James McCulley 64 Derick Schmidt 62 Nick Mamula 75 Jim Wormsley 
NOSE TACKLE 50 Chris Zorich Irish Defense 
TACKLE 96 Steve Roddy TACKLE 69 George Williams 90 Jeff Aim · 
~0E~~~~~~~ro 74 Mi~rko~ • Fl<~nnery D~~~~r~~~;!~D
.92Brya.n 37 Scott Kowalkowski ... 9' 38 Darrell Gordon 
CORNERBACK CORNERBACK 1 Todd Lyght INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ft. INSIDE LINEBACKER 29 Stan Smagala 32 D'Juan Francisco 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike Stonebreaker 20 Bob Satterfield 
-
~ 36 Donn Grimm 47 Ned Bolcar ""' 
FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 31 Corny Southall bJ!1J ~ 27 George Streeter 15 Pat Terrell W ·g. 33 David Jandric 
.. --~---.----------.:lilliillilll-lllii.IL.o....;.;.;..;.l..._......;.;··-..-;.:.;~"-""""'iii:·~L,·.o:o···~ 
-



Irish Extra
page 4 Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
shook up his team's offensive eluded marquee players like attack. Down 24-14 with just Ross Browner, Bob Golic and continued from page 3 oxer a quarter to play, Devine Bradley--buckled down and summoned -Montana to save stifled Hermann's heroics. Reenter Lisch. the day. And that he did. Montana drove his team from The sophomore improved his the Irish 42 with quick, on-the­
play and gave the Irish a 14-10 "I could see it in their eyes, money passes. Finally, sopho­lead, connecting on two touch­we had them," said Purdue ful­more Dave Mitchell plunged in down passes with senior run­lback John Skibinski, "and then from the five-yard line to capning back Terry Eurick. it changed. They got that the Irish rally at 31-24. 
spark, and .it was like a whole Montana didn't relinquish 
But the Purdue passing sen­new ballgame." the starting position for the rest sation smelled an upset all the That spark· was Montana. As of that 10-1-0 championship way. Hermann riddled the soon as he entered, the offense season. Irish secondary by throwing went to work. First, he drove "I was not concerned when consecutive touchdown passes the Irish 80 yards to set up a we were down," Devine said. to Raymond Smith and Russell · 24-yard field goal by Dave "Two years ago (1975) in my Pope from 37 and 43 yards, Reeve. Then, after an Irish in­first year here, we were down respectively. The Boilers built terception by Luther Bradley, 20 to Air Force and came back a 24-14 halftime lead behind Montana heaved a 13-yard to win. We were down 10 to Hermann's amazing 254 yards touchdown pass to tight end North Carolina the next week -.,Jin the air. Ken MacAfee for a 24-24 dead­and still came back." The Observer I File Photo 
Nearing the end of the score­lock. Guess who led the Irish com­Joe Montana calls the signals In a memorable Irish comeback less third · quarter, Devine The Irish defense--which in-ebacks in those victories. against Purdue. 
Montana 

-
IRISH STATS BOILER STATS SCHEDULES 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG TEAM STATISTICS PU OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG NOTRE DAME (2-0) Nelson 25 134 5.4 0 13 d. MICHIGAN, 19-17 Scales 27 98 3.6 0 12 d. Michigan State, 20-3 
TOTAL OFFENSE 561 509 Green 39 193 4.9 0 23 TOTAL OFFENSE 707 485 Schramayr 7 56 8.0 0 18 Sept. 24 PURDUE
-

YARDS Brooks 18 114 6.3 0 37 YARDS Mylef 17 48 2.8 3 7 
Oct. 1 -STAN FORD 

Total Plays 120 116 Rice 16 105 6.6 1 25 Total Plays 157 123 Graham 4 11 2.8 0 g 
Oct. 8 -at Pittsburgh

Yards per Play 4.68 4.39 Johnson 9 50 5.6 0 22 Yards per Play 4.5 3.g Fox 1 4 4.0 0 4 
Oct. 15 -MIAMI

Yards per Game 280.5 254.5 Banks 4 13 3.3 0 6 Yards per Game 353.5 242.5 McCarthy 2 3 1.5 0 3 PENAL TIES-YARDS 9-79 13-104 Watters 7 6 0.9 0 6 PENALTIES-YARDS 12-97 9-98 Mascheck 1 -5 -5.0 0 -5 Oct. 22 AIR FORCE
-FUMBLES-LOST 4-2 1-1 Eilers 1 6 6.0 0 6 FUMBLES-LOST 2-1 3-3 PURDUE 84 349 4.2 3 18 Oct. 29 -at Navy TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 18 30 Mihalko 2 5 2.5 0 3 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 40 22 OPPONENTS 89 367 4.1 Nov. 5-RICE By Rushing 12 14 P.Graham 1 -21 -21 0 -21 By Rushing· ' 18 14 Nov. 19-PENN STATE
RECEIVING NO-YDS AVG TO LG
By Passing 4 15 NOTRE DAME 97 471 4.9 1 37 By Passing 18 6 
Nov. 26 -at Southern Cal 

By Penalty 2 1 OPPONENTS 87 228 2.6 2 18 By Penalty 4 2 Williams 9 121 13.4 1 24 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 24-8 30-11 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 38-15 28-9 Nelson 7 45 6.4 0 14 
RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG
Percentage 33.3 36.7 Percentage 39.5 32.1 O'Conr10r 5 77 15.4 1 44 POSSESSION TIME 54:51 65:09 POSSESSION TIME 65:53 54:07 Moore 5 53 10.6 0 20 Minutes per Game 27:26 32:35 Minutes per Game 32:56 27:04 Scales 4 31 7.8 0 17 
Green 2 37 18.5 0 38 PURDUE (1-1)
Turner 2 14 7.0 0 9 Alaniz 1 23 23.0 0 23 Myles 1 5 5.0 0 5 I. WASHINGTON, 20-6 Brooks 1 18 18.0 0 18 
Graham 2 12 6.0 0 8 d. OHIO, 33-10 
Watters 1 12 12.0 0 12
SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP PURDUE 35 358 10.2 2 44 Sept. 24 -at Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME 5 90 18.0 0 38 
OPPONENTS 8 118 3.57 2 
Oct. 1 -MINNESOTA

OPPONENTS 26 281 10.8 0 32 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO 
Oct. 8 -at Illinois Ho 2 0 3-3 0-0 0 6-6 21 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TD Myles 2 3 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 18 
Oct. 15 -at Ohio State 

-Rice 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Sullivan 2 0 3-3 0-0 0 2-3 9 
Oct. 22-IOWA 

Watters 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Williams 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Fox 1 11.000 0 13 0 
Oct. 29 -at Wisconsin

Stonebrkr 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Rice 21 5 .238 3 90 0 O'Connor 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 McCarthy 69 33 .478 5 341 2 K.Graham 2 0 .000 1 0 0 McCarthy 2 0 0-0 0-1 0 0-0 0 Mascheck 3 1 .333 0 4 0 
Nov. 5 -MICHIGAN STATE 
2 .3 3-3 PU Nov. 12 -at Northwestern OPP 2 2 2-2 0-0 0 2-4 20 OPP 42 26 .619 2 281 0 PU 2 5 3-3 0-1 0 2-3 39 OPP 34 8 .235 6 118 2 Nov. 19 -INDIANA 
NO 0-0 0 6-6 39 NO 23 5 .217 4 90 0 73 35 .479 5 358 2 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE PURDUE OFFENSE PURDUE DEFENSE 
POS NO PLAYEA HT WT CL RE 30 Frank Stams 6-4 237 Sr. POS NO PLAYEA HT WT CL LE 43 Scott Conover 6-5 256 So. SE 80 Steve Alaniz S-2 196 Sr. 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226 So. SE 80 Todd Moore s-1 169 So. 90 lonnie Palelei 6-4 256 Fr. 25 Raghib Ismail 5-10 175 Fr. L T 69 George Williams 6-3 282 So. 81 Lance Schieb 6-0 187 Sr. • L T 99 Bill Hitchcock ~ 2n Jr. QT 66 Andy Heck 6-7 2n Sr. 74 Mirko Jurkovic 6-5 270 Fr. L T 69 Bruce Brlneman 6-5 282 Jr. 96 Bob Dresse! 6-5 258 Fr. 64 Mike Brennan 6-5 246 Sr. NT 50 Chris Zorich 6-1 260 So. 78 Todd Troutman 6-6 260 Fr. RT 72 Krls Burns 6-2 260 Fr. QG 52 Tim Ryan 6-4 245 So. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 249 Jr. LG 64 Derick Schmidt 6-3 266 Fr. 87 Larry Taylor 6-4 271 Jr. 53 Winston Sandri 6-4 253 So. RT 90 Jeff Aim 6-7 246 Jr. 75 Jim Wormsley 6-3 287 Fr. C 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 258 So. 87 Tom Gorman 6-6 255 Sr. C 63 Bruce Crites S-3 244 Sr. RE 41 Donzel Leggett S-5 242 So. 76 Gene McGuire 6-5 265 Fr. DE 7 Andre Jones 6-4 215 So. 51 James McCulley 6-5 268 Sr. 93 Dennis Dotson 6-5 231 Jr. TG 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 279 Jr. 38 Flash Gordon 6-3 214 Sr. RG 59 Jason Cegielski S-1 256 So. SLB 47 Jerrol Williams S-5 231 Sr. 56 Ted Healy 6-4 258 Jr. 62 Nick Mamula 6-5 241 Fr. 39 Trent Decatur 6-2 220 Fr. TT 71 Dean Brown 6-3 283 Jr. MLB 34 Was Pritchett 6-6 251 Sr. AT 76 Teko Johnson 6-5 281 Jr. MLB 55 Darrln Trleb 6-2 235 So. 73 Justin Hall 6-5 290 Fr. 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 224 So. 66 Randy Taylor 6-6 264 Fr. 39 Trent Decatur 6-2 220 Fr. TE 88 Frank Jacobs 6-5 234 So. ELB 42 · Mike Stonebreaker 6-1 226 Jr. TE 84 Dwayne O'Connor 6-3 235 Jr. WLB 44 Tyrone Starks 6-3 220 So. 86 Derek Brown 6-7 235 Fr. 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 232 Sr. 83 Kelly Turner 6-3 210 So. 4b Jim Schwantz 6-2· 206 Fr. QB 9 Tony Rice 6-1 198 Jr. CB 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 181 So. CB 1 Steve Jackson 5-9 180 So. 17 Kent Graham 6-5 228 So. 32 D'Juan Francisco 5-11 187 Sr. QB 5 Shawn McCarthy 6-6 224 Jr. 26 Julian Wagner 5-10 156 Fr. FB 40 Tony Brooks 6-2 218 So. CB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186 Jr. 16 Brian Fox 6-5 205 Fr. SS 3 Ronnie Beeks 6-o 205 Sr. 35 Ryan Mihalko 6-2 234 So. 20 Bob Satterfield 6-0 181 Sr. RB 36 Scott Nelson 6-2 218 Sr. 11 Terry Johnson 6-1 195 So. TB 24 Mark Green 6-o 184 Sr. SS 27 George Streeter 6-2 212 Sr. 33 Darren Myles 5-9 190 Sr. 5 Rodney Culver 6-0 212 Fr. 33 David Jandric 6-2 192 Jr. RB 22 Jarrett Scales 5-11 184 So. FS 31 Marc Foster s-o 194 Sr. FL 12 Ricky Watters 6-2 201 So. FS 31 Corny Southall 6-2 194 Sr. 12 Ray Graham 5-11 188 Fr. 30 Brad Davis 5-10 185 Jr. 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 182 Fr. 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 195 Jr. FL 88 Calvin Williams s-o 192 ·Jr. CB 2 Derrick Kelson 6-1 186 Jr. PK 2 Reggie Ho 5-5 135 Sr. P 16 Jim Sexton s-o 188 so. 1 0 Robert Oglesby 5-6 160 Jr. 8 Tony Brown 5-11 170 Fr. 18 Billy Hackett 6-1 184 So. 14 Sean Connor 6-7 218 Sr. PK 4 Larry Sullivan 6-o 174 Fr. P 5 Shawn McCarthy S-6 224 Jr. 


Each week, The Observer sports 
staff, a random student picked by the sports department and well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't 
Pete Sklko Jane Shea Steve Megargee Marty Strasen Theresa Kelly Larissa Wenning Dennis Corriganenough to pick the winner of a given Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Random Student Guest Celebrity game. The person must pick the 15-12-0 14-13-0 12-15-0 12-15-0 11-16-0 16-11-0 8-19-0 winner and give the underdog .556 .519 .444 .444 .407 .593 .296 points. Home team is in CAPS. (last week: 7-6-0) (last week: 6-7-0) (last week: 5-8-0) (last week: 6-7-0) (last week: 3-10-0) (last week: 7-6-0) (last week: 3-10-0) 
DUKE over Virginia by 6.5 Blue Devils Blue Devils Cavaliers Cavaliers Blue Devils Blue Devils Wahoos 
PITTSBURGH over W. Virginia by 2 Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Mountaineers Mountaineers 
SO. CAROLINA over Georgia by 2 Bulldogs Gamecocks Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Gamecocks. 
-
-PENN STATE over Rutgers by 12 Nittany Lions Scarlet Knights Scarlet Knights Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Wyoming over AIR FORCE by 2 Cowboys Falcons Cowboys Falcons Falcons Cowboys Cowboys ALABAMA over Vanderbilt by 14 Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Commodores Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Commodores Crimson Tide Indiana over MISSOURI by 6 Tigers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers AUBURN over Tennessee by 14 Tigers Tigers Volunteers Tigers Tigers Tigers War Eagles Lsu over OHIO STATE by 6 Tig~rs Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Oklahoma over USC by 1.5 Trojans Trojans Sooners Sooners Sooners Trojans Trojans OREGON over Stanford by 5 Ducks Ducks Cardinal Cardinal Ducks Ducks Ducks MIAMI over Wisconsin by 42 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Badgers Hurricanes Hurricanes FLORIDA STATE over Msu by 17.5 Seminoles Spartans Seminoles Spartans Sp'artans Seminoles Seminoles NOTRE DAME over Purdue by 21.5 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


-





-------=1
Viewpoint 
pagel1 : 
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 

Forums facilitate lively debate 
Lately the subject of student apathy has appeared in both campus and na­tional news. Studies reveal that the ac­cumulation of monetary wealth is more than a mere preoccupation with today's college students, and a weighty empha­sis on career curriculum by schools themselves thwarts the goals of liberal education. Students seem more inter­ested in furthering job opportunities for the future than in discussing the great issues of the day. Certainly, a part of this trend is understandable: a college degree no longer guarantees success in the marketplace and, unlike their par­ents, today's students will be strapped with the burden of paying back a huge national debt. 
Chris Devron 
against apathy 
But here at Notre Dame, one would expect the problem of student apathy to be less severe than generally expe­rienced. After all, this student \body is selected from a pool of the mokt intel­ligent, informed and gifted high school graduates in the country. One could, I suppose, speculate endlessly on why students do not express their interest in intellectual, political and social is­sues. Some argue that our students come from backgrounds that do not value intellectual inquiry; others point out that Notre Dame students are so well-rounded that non-academic inter­ests, like athletics, leave little time for academic-type pursuits outside the classroom. Whatever the analyses reveal, I believe that part of the prob­lem can be alleviated if students are simply made aware of the opportunities for political and social debates and ac­tivity. 

Last semester, some friends and I decided to begin a weekly radio show that would debate current political and campus issues. None of us had exten­sive radio experience: what brought us together was our interest in politics. Since we so often seemed to be engaged in friendly--and sometimes not-so­friendly--arguments due to different po­litical orientations, we thought it might be fun to try to debate on the radio. We found that it is a lot easier to argue in a dorm room that in a radio studio. The show is structured around three repre­sentatives of the political spectrum--a liberal, a moderate and a conservative. 
Our first show was a disaster. Playing the role of the liberal, I did my best to defend that perspective. To my surprise, mid-way through the show, the moderate changed his course and suddenly sounded like Jesse Helms. 
There I was--sitting next to a conser­vative and a moderate who could have been running for president of the Col­lege Republicans--desperately trying to recall the facts and figures I had studied to support my arguments. Noth­ing I said went unattacked as the blurry facts in my mind were articulated in loud shouts. My defense became less and less rational, and the response of my friends was to laugh hysterically. Soon the entire WVFI staff was in the studio laughing at my ridiculous com­mentary. As the weeks progressed, however, we developed a more profes­sional debating style. 
This semester, the show promises to be even better. With the election, there will be no lack of news to discuss. The show has convinced us that William Buckley, John McLaughlin, and Phil Donahue we are not, and we have in­vited several experts to join us as guests. Professors Peri Arnold and Robert Schmuhl will provide election analysis, and Rev. Oliver Williams will discuss the "Year of Cultural Diver­sity." We are planning a debate be­tween campus representatives from each campaign, and this Sunday, we hope to air an exclusive interview with Gov. Bruce Babbitt. Issues '88--the name we gave to our show--will also continue to address the campus issues that concern you the most (i.e., the 
P.O. Box Q 
Senior Reflection deserves a chance 
Dear Editor: 
A few years ago I was in the same position you're in now. I was a senior, saw those signs about the Senior Reflec­tion Group, and decided that I probably wouldn't enjoy it. So I didn't sign up. A friend of mine did. Luckily, her group needed another male. There were seven women and only six men and they wanted an even balance. At first I told her I didn't have the time. But after she told me about the great food (if for no other reason, go for the meal! ) , I decided to give it a try. All it took was that one time. Looking back, I can honestly say it was one of the most memorable experiences of my under­graduate career. 
For those of you unfamiliar with the Senior Reflection Group, it provides an arena for senior men and women to 
Doonesbury 

meet and discuss some common feelings and reflections as they near the end of their four years at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The group of­fers them the opportunity both to look back on their college experience and to articulate their hopes for the future, and provokes students to examine how social concern is and will be integrated into their lives. 
Once a month you will go to a faculty or staff home and share in a great meal prepared by group members. Then it's off to the living room with your coffee and opinions. Sometimes, people will bring "openers" that get the discussion going. The next thing you know, it's 9 
p.m. and time to go. 

At a time in your life when so much is going on, and so many worries are beginning to crop up, it's nice to know that other seniors here (besides just your immediate friends) are going through the same things too. And it's also encouraging to know that your pro­fessors really do take an interest not just in your academic life, but also in your personal life. So as I said before: give it a try. What have you got to lose? You'll at least get a great dinner! 
Ken Cotter '84 ND Law School Sept. 21, 1988 

Seeing, "Temptation" a pel'sonal choice 
Dear Editor: 

Enough already. I don't know about anyone else but I am tired of picking up The Observer and reading about the philosophical and theological pros and cons of why a person should and should not see "The Last Temptation of Christ." The only person's opinion who should count is your own. Only you can decide for yourself if you want to see death of the SYR, the alcohol policy, and SMGND relations). 
What does all this have to do with student apathy, you say? Well, I would be lying if I claimed that this article is not in part intended to get you to tune in to Issues '88 (Sundays, 12:30 p.m., WVFI 640 AM). But aside from my en­thusiasm for the show, I hope my ex­perience is evidence that even in this period of apathy, it is not only possible but also rewarding to be involved in intellectual debate. You can and should voice your concerns and become in­volved. From the Anti-Apartheid Net­work to the newly-established, campus­wide debate series, there are a wide variety of vehicles for political ac­tivism and discussion. The pages of The Observer and Scholastic need to be filled with our insights. A new hall fel­lows program will fail unless students begin to take an active interest. And student government has scheduled an exciting lecture series beginning with Babbitt this Friday. My advice, then, is threefold: First, find a forum to ex­press your views. Second, find a campus group and help implement those views through social service. And third, tune into Issues '88 this Sunday. Chris Devron is a senior government major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
but that was my choice. I won't second­guess you or try to sway you either way. For me the movie did not threaten my belief in God or Christ. The movie and the controversy have prompted me to really thinj{ about my personal beliefs and to decide just what it all means to me. A belief in God and Chrlst is a very personal issue, no two people feel the same, neither belief is right or wrong, just different and what is right for the individual. 
This controversy will continue long after we are all gone. So instead of trying to ramp our personal opinions down each others throats, why don't we all sit back, give the issue a rest, and be glad we made the right decision for ourselves? 
Teresa A. Westfall Off-campus Sept. 21, 1988 

it or not. r----------------, I personally decided to see the movie, 
Quote of the Day 


ANIJ YOU'VE GOT 7D /.&T US
GOV£3/?NOR, I.&TM£3 6N/3. IT 70 7H£3 FAa 15, TH£3 CAM­
JOHN, I 


"Running a football team is
YOU STRAIGHT. YOlJ'V/3. GOT 70 

Hf31,P Y0£.191R. YOU CAN'TI<&&P 
PAIGN 15 G&TTING 
APPR£3­

no different from running
f?{)()GH. 7J.I£3 su.JF?S (1.1
5TART /XJING A 8£3Tf£3R JOB Of 

RUNNING 7J.II5 CAMPAIGN 
... 8UTIT'5
C/AT&

AU. BY YOUR513/,F! 
NOTHING
YaJR PATRJOT/91rf. YOUR 
any other kind of organiza­tion--an army, a political party, a business. The problems are the same. The objective is to win. To beat the other guy. Maybe that sounds harsh or cruel. I don't think it is." 
YOUR 
Vince Lombardi 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of ll>te University of Notre Dame du Lee and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-In-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Managing Edltor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Aegis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shins Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports. Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controlfer .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 


KENDRA MORRILL especially for the amount of 
accent writer food served. The portions are 
so huge that apparently it's 
P 
apa Joe's Casa de Pasta typical for patrons to take is very appropriately part of their dinners home in named--eating at the restau­doggie-bags. rant is more like having a These prices also include home-cooked, or "casa"­dessert--a plate of various cooked, Italian meal than brownies, cookies and dining out. pastries brought right to the 
As you are seated by the table, again without you hostess, a huge bowl of salad having to order it. (which serves everyone at the One thing that is not in­table) and basket of garlic cluded in the price of the bread are already on the entree is the wine, but it's table just waiting to be eaten. worth the extra money. The And this is not just any salad. wine list is fairly extensive, 
-Papa Joe's 
This is an Italian salad with but the Sauvignon Blanc. pepperoni, pepperocini (little (Gallo, $8.95) complementshot green peppers), Par­most of the dishes. mesan cheese and delicious Almost surpassing the meal Italian dressing in addition to in authentic Italian flavor is the usual salad ingredients. the atmosphere of Papa Joe's. 
You don't have to wait to The tablecloths are red-and­
order to start eating, but it's white checked, as may be ex­very hard to put down the pected in an Italian restau­fork to pick up the menu and rant. Small iron chandeliers, choose an entree. Then once resembling candle-holders you do pick up the menu, it's more than light fixtures, 
even harder to choose an dimly light the interior. The entree from the 31 chicken, large plants that are 

veal, eggplant, pasta and seafood dishes that all sound equally enticing. 
A good choice is the Eg­gplant Joseph ($8.75), sauteed eggplant in olive oil and gar­lic, served over pasta and smothered with fresh mush­rooms and cheese. The pasta and sauce, both "casa­made," were especially good. 
Another delectable dish is the Chicken Papino ($9-25): fried breast strips over pasta topped with sauteed mush­rooms, tomato sauce, ricotta and mozzarella cheese. 
Other entrees include Chicken Marsala ($9.50), Shrimp Scampi ($11.25), Veal Parmigiana ($11.95) and Baked Manicotti ($7.95). 
The prices are reasonable, everywhere--surrounding the entrance, next to tables, hanging from ceilings--make Papa Joe's seem more like a warm Venetian garden than a Mishawaka restaurant. 

The best thing about Papa Joe's is that it gives you a chance to relax and enjoy a 
meal from the moment you sit down at the table through dessert, without having to scrutinize the menu and choose between different ap­petizers, side dishes and desserts in addition to the entrees. It's the perfect place to go when you want to enjoy good food and good company in a relaxed atmosphere. 
Papa Joe's Casa de Pasta is 
que bueno. 


Frank's 
CHRIS DONNELLY MATT GALLAGHER 
accent writers 
A
re you looking for six inches of pure ecstasy in South Bend? Try Frank's Red Hots, on State Road 23 just east of campus. 
Frank's is nothing fancy. One wouldn't take a friend here to impress them with the atmosphere, but rather with the food. That explains the relatively modest prices. 
A visit to Frank's is not one to a typical hot dog stand. Rather, the interior reminds one more of a tidy, modern fast food restaurant. 
Frank's, as the name im­plies, specializes in hot dogs. The menu also offers hamburgers, cold cut sand­wiches, ice cream and ribs, but we chose to stick with the main fare. 
Frank's hot dogs come in many varieties. Their specialty is the Chicago Dog, which includes relish, onions, tomatoes, pickles, celery salt, hot peppers and mustard ($1.45). One of us did not care for the color of the relish, which appeared neon green. However, this did not affect the taste. 
For the traditionalists among us, Frank's offers the New York Dog. The New York Dog is loaded with mounds of sauerkraut, ac­cented by your choice of Bel-
Red Hots measL 

gian or regular mustard. 
We also sampled the plain, boring hot dog with ketchup and mustard, to test the quality of the bun and dog ($1.29). The steamed bun was a bit soggy, but this was due to the juices of the Vienna beef hot dog, which was of the finest quality. 
And the cheese fries. Ah, the cheese fries. The fries, by some bizzarre trick of modern physics, managed to stay warm the entire meal. One of us chose the plain cheese fries ($1.25), while the other opted for the chili­cheese fries combination 
($1.75). 

The cheese, basically your plain melted, sticky-gooey cheddar, smothered the generous helping of thin, deli­cate fries. Frank's "homemade" chili was delec­table, a definite improvement over the basic cheese fries if your tastes run in that direc­tion. 
Frank's also offers a myriad of other hot dog pos­siblities, which unfortunately we were not able to sample. 
• ' ' > I '' • • ' • • 




up 


these delicious dogs is under $2.00. 
The counter service was quick, efficient and friendly. The dogs and fries are made fresh, while you wait, and after you place your order they are happy to bring the steaming fries out to your table. 
One important note: the place has more than a healthy share of South Bend's finest. Ordering anything stronger than root beer could 

a trip downtown. 
's offers what every 

t on a budget needs-­
filling food at relatively 
Bill Watterson 
JENNIFER KROLL accent writer 
T 
he Skillet is not a place where you would expect to run into a lot of alumni in plaid pants. Something of a cross between a Denny's, a truck stop, and your Aunt Ida's kitchen, The Skillet has a distinctively small-town, Midwestern flavor that is amusing and utterly un­nretentious. broasted chicken ($5.85), 
which the menu refers to as 
''truly the most delicious and 
the most digestible chicken 
we have tasted," is really 
very good, though a little on 
the greasy side. One entire 
page of the menu is devoted to it, and the restaurant also features chicken carry-out for those on the go. Besides chicken, The Skillet serves deliciously tender prime-rib ($6.95), as well as various 
-The Skillet-
On entering The Skillet, one's attention is first drawn to the generous assortment of crayola artwork hanging above the front counter. If you have to wait for a table (which you might, as The Skillet seems to have a fairly devoted clientele) you should examine the bowl of ceramic fruit, the large wooden chicken, and the various two year old issues of magazines like Circle and Wo­
men's Day that are provided for your amusement. 
Beyond these initial treasures, however, The Skil­let is also liberally strewn with antiques and knick­knacks, and some rather in­teresting ones, at that. My companions and I had to en­quire to find out exactly wha• the harness clamp was, and this was enthusiastically ex­plained to us by our waitress. 
The catch-words at The Skillet are "hospitality" and "broasted chicken." The kinds of steak and seafood including farm-raised catfish ($6.25). (Sorry kids, no al­coholic beverages--this is a family establishment.) For dessert, what else but apple pie ala mode ($1.50)? 
Definitely down to earth, The Skillet is one of those home town kind of places where the waitress calls you "honey" and "kids" (she even chastised one of my companions for not 
"vegies"). It also must be one of the last places on this earth where Wetnaps (those little lemon-scented towelettes in the pouch--remember those from family trips as a kid?) are distributed with your meal. 
Some might find The Skillet tacky, but I thought it was a lot of fun. The food was good­-everything from the cranberry-apple relish to the onion rings--and the experi­ence was a definite change of pace. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~EP,  Mt>.RS Mf\'( B\: A Lim£  Wt.''lt. GeT fl.. 'f4"C>Lt. Pl.AAH  t-!Cl"ffii~G  BUT RUGGE.D,  1\1~1'5  t()T '(OIJR  IT 'Nt>.C:.  
\'1JLL I  BUT  IT'S B£nt.R 111t>.N  1b O'JRC:.El'Jt:S. BAAND NE'N  NMUAAL BEf>..\.lT'{ f>..S ~R  C~~O~ BAA 'NRIIPPER  JUS\ \\IER£.  
EAR\\-1.  t>.~D  UNS~\L£:0.  tt0 P£<ft£,  />..s T\-1£ £iE 0.~ stE.  OIJ£R 1\-1£~. IS IT?  r... !1\INVTI:.!  
NO \1:>LLUTION.  r 'Nr>.s~\  
GCli~G TO  
LEA'JE IT.  

Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988· 
-.. 


Robert Cray brings the blues to all 
SCOTT KAHNEY accent writer 

T 
he blues? Isn't that what you're supposed to listen to when your baby's got you down? 
Not according to Robert Cray. Cray and his band use a sharp, flashy style in an attempt to bring the blues to the people. Don't Be Mraid of the Dark, Cray's fifth album, succeeds in letting people know that the blues are not just for drunk, depressed old men. 
Notre Dame had a firsthand experience with Cray two years ago when he opened for Huey Lewis and the News. Cray's short but inspired 
opener had to play second fiddle to the fluffy pop of Huey Lewis, but his electric 
blues stole the show. Unfor­tunately, most of the ND 
crowd was at the concert to 
hear Lewis and never really 
noticed what Cray had to of­
fer. 
Cray's newest album has a nice mix of sharp upbeat tunes and slower traditional blues numbers. Songs like "Your Secret's Safe with Me" and the title track testify to Cray's talent in producing riveting popular songs with­out losing his blues backbone. "I Can't Go Home" is the highlight of the album's slower numbers. 
In "Night Patrol," the al­bum's best track, Cray suc­cessfully combines his sooth­ing voice and guitar into an inspirational look at the down and out. Cray's guitar seems to wander the lonely streets alongside the hero of this song, a policeman on the night patrol. 
Another highlight, "Across the Line," makes me feel al­most like I'm sitting in a dark Chicago blues club. The interplay between the sax and guitar solos lacks only a cold beer and some cigarette smoke. Add those ingredients and I'd swear I'm listening to a live show. 
Cray's horn section, the Memphis Horns, continues to provide a lively backdrop for his vocals and guitar. The horns also receive the added bonus of David Sanborn's saxophone on "Acting this Way." Sanborn's searing guest solos provide an added touch of finesse to Cray's already solid album. 
Although Don't Be Mraid of the Dark continues Cray's tradition of pure blues, it may not be as successful as his 1986 album Strong Persuader. -· Those familiar with Cray's work will realize that Don't 
Be Mraid of the Dark lacks the riveting focus Cray produced two years ago. 
Even taking a step down from Strong Persuader, Cray is still able to produce a suc­cessful album. Don't Be Mraid of the Dark has as­sured us that the next time Cray and his band come to South Bend, they won't be opening the show for some teeny bop popster like Huey Lewis. 
For those of you who have never listened to the blues or are maybe just a little bit afraid of embarking on a new road, I challenge you to give Robert Cray a try. As far as the blues go, Cray's music provides a good starting point to begin your journey into the world of the blues. His music succeeds in bridging the gap between the rock-n-roll of today and the blues of Chicago in the 50s and 60s. 
Don't be mistaken: Robert Cray plays nothing but the blues. His music, however, is not for the lonely, depressed wino but for all of us. So sit 
-

back, take a long draw from whatever you're drinking and give Robert Cray and his blues a chance. C'mon, Don't Be Mraid of the Dark! 


Etc. 

eage 14 Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
The last temptation of the Church 

last temptation. What will it be, and when will it happen?" 
"It's nothing new, I prom­ise you," He said, chortling at seeing me curious. "All the sins that can happen are already invented. All the kings of temptation are also old hat." 
"Well Sir," I replied, showing some just indigna­tion. The Stranger of Galilee can be exasperating when He wants to be; that's why Mil­ton had to write a poem, jus­tifying the ways of God to man. "The last temptation of the Church was Your idea." 
He stayed silent, until a little pure Christian love passed between us. Finally He said: "Father, the last temptation of the Church will be the same as the first temptation was: to contain the Son of Man in the framework of an official Creed. If you believe the 
"Last night at the movies, I saw Jesus sitting in the back row, wearing a Mickey Mouse t­shirt and eating popcorn." 
Creed, you're orthodox. If you don't believe, you're a heretic. In a dark age that's bad, because the Inquisition will get you if you don't watch out." I wished the movie would start. The con­versation was now over my 
head; however, He was tem­pering the wind to the shorn lamb. Kindness shone out of him like sunlight as He ex­plained His idea to me. 
"When you read the Gospels, beginning with Mark and ending with John, don't you ever sense how confusing the Son of Man is?" He looked humble when He referred to Himself (the Second Person) in the third person, as though He felt it would be immodest to refer to Himself in the first person. "He, the Son of Man, warned the Jews that they would have to search the Old Testamant to find out Who He was, ac­quainting themselves with the Suffering Servant of Yahweh, the Son of David, offspring of the root of Jesse, the Prophet whom the prophets ex­pected." 
He shook His head, amazed at how complex it was to be the revealer of the mystery of God. "On top of that, I had the personality of a sharp­tongued village rabbi who went to wedding receptions, helping the caterer when the wine ran out. I was a bird watcher with the eloquence of a nature poet. I was a street preacher who got in trouble with the Establishment. I was a luckless Jew who was polished off on the Cross. I was the Holy One not allowed to suffer corruption, accor­ding to the promise of the Psalms." 
For a moment, He let the 
glory shine through, proud of 
how much the Father loved 
Him. 
"Later," He continued, "Paul wrote of One having the form of God, Who thought nothing of emptying Himself of His godhead, and assuming the form of a servant." 
He looked at His watch. "Listen," He said, "I'm not staying, since I've seen the movie, and I'm needed at a thousand deathbeds. The portrait of the Son of God is amazing, because it was Ghost-written." He didn't give me time to acknowledge His pun on the Holy Ghost. "Even critics who say there is no God admit that there's no portrait in world literature that delineates such a rich 
character." 
He hurried through the praise of Himself, because He was embarrassed. "It only took the Church a few cen­turies to figure out from the Gospels what to say in the Creeds, which represent or­thodoxy. I enjoy the Creeds when they're sung in Latin; but even in English they have dignity. Orthodoxy bothers me, if it means everyone must have the same picture in their heads at the same time. Paul came close to the right idea when he spoke of himself as being all things to all men. What more would the Son of Man want to be 
see, GRIFFIN, page 16, 

-
The partners and professional staff of Peat Marwick Main & Co. are proud to announce that the following Notre Dame graduates have joined our professional 
staff during 1988:  
Michael Broughton, Atlanta  Maria Morin, San Jose  Colleen Sullivan, Los Angeles  
Mary Kate D'Amore, Chicago  Melinda Murphy, Orange County  Frances Theby, Chicago  
Richard Ehrman, Dallas  Robert Nobles, Atlanta  Grant Weidner, Chicago  
Laurie Holderread, Chicago  Kathryn Pierce, Chicago  Craig Yarwood, Chicago  
Thomas McLean, Chicago  John Steffan, Toledo  Lawrence Zuley, Pittsburgh  

Peat Marwick will be on campus October 6th and 7th to interview qualified students for outstanding opportunities in Accounting and Auditing, and Tax throughout the United States. We look forward to seeing you on campus. 
L 
ast night at the movies, I saw Jesus sitting in the back row, wearing a Mickey Mouse t-shirt and eating pop­corn. 
"Sir," I said shyly, "is it really You?" 
"Good evening, Padre," He answered like a Catholic at Mass. "Does your flock know you're here, out of uniform?" He winked as though we had a joke going. 
Outside the theatre, the picket line stretched around 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the block. If the zealots had seem me dressed as a priest, buying a ticket to a movi"e which, according to them, turned the Gospel into por­nography, they'd have eaten me, scapulars and all, for breakfast. 
"Sir," I said reverently, "You don't exactly look like a holy card Yourself." 
He gave the chuckle of a Deity in mufti who enjoys being naughty. "I've got one of those dog collars you fel­lows wear in the line of duty and a pectoral cross and a bishop's ring. I only wear them in Rome, on days when I want to see how the other half lives." 
All of a sudden He grew very serious, as though He were listening to prayers from a Third World countr and He murmured something that could have been the com­mand for a miracle. 

Then, He gave me His at­tention again: "What brings you to a flick like this?" 
"Curiosity," I replied. "What's your excuse?" I wasn't trying to be flippant. He seemed to agree that the situation was comic, our run­ning into each other like a couple of hale fellows, well met, enjoying an evening off the reservation. 


He said: "It's homework for Me." He was thoughtful, as He must have been when He asked Simon Peter: "Who do men say that I am?" He explained "I show up in all kinds of places: camp meetings, Sunday schools, church synods, the Crystal Cathedral, the Pope's chapel, the sessions of Hadassah, Pizza Hut to support the belief 'Pizza and beer!Jesus is here,' any place where I can find out what believers are saying, if I keep My ear to the ground." 
I sat in reverence, consider­ing the magnitude of His work as the Son of God. He said: "Have you ever written an article on the last tempta­tion of the Church?" 
I answered: "I never en­visa ed the Church havin a 
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 The Observer page 15 
n.'*--'Not,. Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent c.ntw, .:c:ep._ claaalfled ..tv.tl-.g from 10 Lift. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvough Fl1day. The a...--s.lnt Mery's otflce, located on the third floor of H-oo-Collge Center, ec:c.p._ c&aalfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frtday. DMdllne tor next-Gay claaaltledele 3 p.m. All claaaltlede must 
be pnlpllld, either In person or by mall. The charga Ia 10 cen._ per five c:tw.ctwe per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Part time evening help needed. 19 hrsAveek, $4.00111. Call 233-9045 5­9pm. ......................................... HEY NO--GROOVY RECTOR NEEDS 2 PURDUE GA's. CALL JUDY AT 239· 6515.  I need two GA's for my parents for any ol the home games, especially: Purdue Rice Call Sly at I 3122 Need 3 Purdue GA's real bad. Call Pat al2082  TICKETS NEEDED FOR NO­STANFORD. COLLECT: 215-5311-11421. ................................................................ ROSES ARE RED. VIOLETS ARE BLUE. I NEED TWO MIAMI G.A.'S. JOE X1728 JC)E~-~~-2-STANFORD GA~-~-~-~d~  NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX call John at x2045 HELPI I need a ride to Boston, Mags. for Fall Break. Will help with expenses and driving time. Call Serah at 4814.  JAMISON INN -PURDUE WEEKEND Some room• available. Calf for 111aerva11ona. 277-111182. SMC STUDENTS LIKE ITALIAN FOOD? SIGN UP FOR SAB'S VIVA ITALIAN NIGHT 5-6:30 SEPT 28. SIGN UPS  
WORDPROCESSING 237-111411 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277·7406 CHRISTMAS SHOPPING WITH AVON 277-7406 WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-3127 A TYPICAL CONVERSATION AT HOME· Tom· W-E·N·S·D-A-Y Mike: K­A·R·E·N Tom: W·E·N-S-0-A-Y, etc. Will lh1s weekend be the ultimate showdown between these WOMAN WHIPPED boya? W>lllhere be ANY HOT WATER left? DATES TO REMEMBER: Kelly's com1n' In ONE WEEKI Dawn-November? LOST: To per110n who picked up cal­cula1or In a-tea Cl..a on TuMday, Sapt. 20, pla1111 ratum to Gr.g Wlntera, 302 Zllhm Hall. ................................................................ LOST: a Timex watch, gold colonod face, Roman nume111la, day and date, burg.ondy band. G11181 Mnllrnental value. If found PLEASE call Man at 11  FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN· TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. .................................................... FLORIDA CONDO ON THE OCEAN 2 bedroom, 2 bath corner apartment on lhe Atlantic Ocean In Pompano Beach, Florida. New carpet. drapes, and fridge, lreshly painted, semi-furnished. $139,900.1nterested, caii(219)283-2089 or (305) 943-3088. FOR SALE: CASIO CZ-101 program­mable. digital SYNTHESIZER ·new con­dillon, with canrying case and instruc· lions. CALL JOE II 1865 .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . . . ......... . Nikkormat FT3 w-28mm, 50mm, 80­200mm lenses, 2 flashes, 2 cases. $550. 282-2577 after 5pm GREAT PARTY CARIIII 1970 Chevy lpala Conver1ible. Power everywhere: 454 engine. power windows and seats.$1, 700. Call Tenry, 287-8885. ............................. Want to go to SAN FRANCISCO 4 ThxGiVing? Cheap plane ticket for sale.  I NEED 3 MIAMI TIX -PLEASEII CALL X2964 WILL PAY$$ I need 4 Tickets to Purdue, 2GA-2ST, CALL Scott II 1 053 I NEED TfXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. CALL NED AT 1178 ' ............................. I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 284-5221 NEED STANDFORD STUD OR GA TIXS. CALL MIMI X4447 I'M DYING ... TO FIND 2 PURDUE GA'S PLEASE CALL 284-5458 NEED TO TRADE ... I need to trade 4-6 Stanford GA's for 4-6 Purdue GA's. Please call (213) 301-3128 or (312) 475-1673. .......................... WILL PAY BIG$$$$$ FOR 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL MONTE 283-1577 ND Grad need 2 tkts Miamit>ID Oct. 15· 18005265361-Kate or after 6 pm­2013625748 collect. WILL EXCHANGE MY 4 STANFORD GA'S OR PAY FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL CLAIRE 272-5989. WILL TRADE STANFORD, RICE OR PENN ST. FOR PURDUE, AIR FORCE OR MIAMI TIX. CALL CHRIS 884-1304, EVENINGS.  ly. He'll do jus1 about anything to get them. Make him a happy and satisfied man by selling him yours. Call 272-3405 and do your good deed tor the day. ......................... I need a purdue ticket 4681 greg .................... WANT TO SELL ALL MY TICKETS STUD AND GA'S FACE VALUE JUST WANT TO BREAK EVEN CALL ME ANYTIME BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 4 A.M. AND 9 A.M. ASK FOR JOE S. ............................................................. FAMILY COMING I'ROM CALIF. NEED AIR FORCE GA'S NAME YOUR PRICE I CALL 284-51741 NEED 4 PENN ST. TtX. I PROMISED THEM TO SOMEONE. GET ME OUT OF A JAM. CALL DAVE 1418. Desperately need 2 STANFORD lix Call Monica at X267 4 or X3358 MY BROTHER WILL TRADE BEAUTI­FUL EX-WIFE FOR ONE STANFORD GA x1999 NICK ;··;;:r;i,i·F'o-Fio·&·M·i;M"i.sruo·:rix·Foii SALE MEGAN X4354 ............................................... Yikesll ND law stud needs 8 Stanford GA's or will lose job offer. HELP, PLEASEII 283-2748 Todd I need 2 STANFORD STUDSI! Call John at 3410 NEED.3 PENN STATE GA'SI!I $IS NO PROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 277· 3997.  To all those who know and love John Whelpley,thal crazy engineer who,yes, partakes in rugby.To much dismay this young man is the victim of a dread-Tful misnomer:THEBOYFRIENDI The names John PREFERS are:Euchre(Eucker), Ferdy, JW, Loveslave,The Whelper, Jack West, Buttercup. Please feel free to call x1376 or stop by 601 Flanner to make sure John(or whatever you'd like to call him) is not victlmizediWISHing you well. Woman of Sodom tt.yflll II anyone bought 1 atudent tfcka1 tor Michigan Purdue, or eny other home game tha1 hae Sec 29, Row 80, Seat 12 on It, piMM call 283-3346. lt'a very Important! Thanka. THE SALAD BAR SYR IS COMING ................................................................ THE ONLY SYR WITH BARS IS COM· lNG THE SALAD BAR SYR LADIES, BRACE YOURSELVES THE SALAD BAR SYR IS COMING Hall St. Joaeph In tha ehedow of tha Grotto. May many seek your help. Man-. /lest of Men, Patron of Workers, Silent Hero. For the favor of a lifetime ... tt.y -tckall Handyman-"Yep, thla thing Ia aturdy aU right." Ho1111 Dorll­·"Pant, pant, n...uauyt lam ex1rodl· nary." Fozzy-"Wacka wacka...my  FRIDAY (23) IN DINING HALL. ITS FREE\ I NEED MIAMI STUD TICKETS CALL KAREN 277-29891 ....................... ...................... SUMMER PROGRAMS FOR SMC AND ND LONDON (WITH TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND. AND FRANCE) AND ROME (WITH TRAVEL IN FRANCE, GER., SWITZ, AND N. ITALY. CLASSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EDUCA­TION, HISTORY, ITALIAN AND JUS­TICE. MEETING OCT. 5, 7:00PM IN MOREAU HALL LmLE THEATER (SMC) INFO AND PIZZA FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-3726 ........................ SPARKY·IThis one's for you! I LOVE YOU ... Your Babydoll TR, GO BACK TO YOUR ROOM YOU BIG FAG! NEVER MIND RJ,I'LL TEACH YOU. LOVE,TO .....................................................­......... KIM M., AS f WAS SAYING:YOU RADIATE Sl:NSUAUTY,SUP OUT OF THOSE SADDLE SHOES I JOIN MEI­SS NO LAW WOMEN: WE SUGGEST YOU FORM A FOOTBALL TEAM TO SCRIM· MAGE W'LOU (DON'T HURT REGGIE I) WE ALSO SUGGEST THAT THE FEW ATTRACTIVE ONES ATTEMPT AN AT­TITUDE ADJUSTMENT SUCH AS LOWERING YOUR NOSES & YOUR AT THE SAME TIMEI NO OF­FENSE MEANT TO THE INNOCENT. -THE LAWMEN  
3610. Thanks! loat· calc.125 elhs and guhck text bOOk ~ in rm.226 of math building name and number 1n 1ns1de cover of lext FOUND: HEWLETTif'ACKARD CALCU· LATOR IN 107 LIBRARY. THURSDAY !VIS CHECK WITH OBSERVER 9am· 3pm  Erin at 4915. Moving must sell: TV, stereo, beds, tables. sofa. sewing machine, micro­wave. and much more call John 288­2062, Open Apt. Sat. 9-24, 8-6pm, 1112 S. 20th St. Apt 505, South Bend PLANE TICKET FOR SALE ROUND TRIP FROM SOUTH BEND TO N.Y.C. • DURING THANKSGIVING WEEKEND  DUDESII RICH RENTS FROM THE GOLDEN STATE NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE MIAMI GAMEIII CALL MIKE AT 287-8716 need 3 Stanford GA's x2054 HELP!! Mom & Dad are coming! Need 2 AIR FORCE GA'SII call DIANNE x1992  Purdue GA for sale call Deepak 1911 N.D. S KSI (just kidding,/ know they're (f 1 but I needed your attention) 1 PURDUE 50 YARD LN. GA 4 SALE 60 BY 5 PM WILL INFORM OWNER BY 6 PM X3201 ................ ....... NEED -2 PURDUE GA'S CALL ALLISON X1297  roommet• are Dttterent." Love 1,2,3 ... the Accountant NOTRE DAME'S ONLY REAL ROCK-N­ROLI..tSLUES BAND: LIVE AT MCCOR­MICK'S CONEY ISLAND; FRIDAY, SEPT 23 (NEXT TO SENOR KELLY'S DOWNTOWN) PARTY WITH "BILLY THE ID" FRIDAY NITE AT MCCORMICK'S BAR  WHAT..Will ·s·ANTA'"SAv WHEN "HE VISITS MICH. THIS YEAR? HOI HOI HOI ................................................................ A TTRACTIVE,SEXY,INTELLIGENT MALE SEEKS INTIMATE RELATION­SHIP(S) Wf>ASSIONATE FEMALE(S) OF SIMILAR QUALITIES. NO STRINGS ATTACHED! EXPERIENCE NOT NEC­ESSARY,WILLING TO TRAIN.-MR.13  
lost· blue flex 3 folder. has • h181ory and geology" on front tf tound please call mike at 1789  REAL CHEAP! CALL MIKE X3288  I NEED: 4 Stnfrd GA's 1 Stntrd or Air Free stud Call Dave II 1427  NEED 5 STANFORD GA's CALL SUSAN 2551  SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES  ........................................................ JOANIE, Happy 14 months! I love you! Love, Michael  
LOST set of kaya on DESMOND FITZ GERALD keychaln Please call Karin 272­9903 FOR RENT FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255· 3684-288·0955 FURNISHED ROOMS & HOMES NEAR  TICKETS NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X2743 Mom and Dads first visit; help me make II a good one Need4 PURDUE tix call 2226 John DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME CALL ERIN AT 3757.  'SAMMY NEEDS TICKETS ' TWO STANFORD GA & 1 STUDENT (OR 3 GA) PLEASE CALL 288-6207 MARCEL AND RUTHIE ARE COMING TO NO !Ill They need Stanford GA's from YOU 1!1 PLEASE Ill Call x4228 ...................... MI-AM-I still in need of 2 GA's call Jim at 1647 PLEASEII\1 NEED 2 PENN ST STU­DENT TIX. WILL PAY$$ OR TRADE 2 STANFORD OR PURDUE GA'S FOR THEM! CALL AMY PLEASE! X4953 or 4962. ........... .................. ............  I have 2 MIAMI GA's tor the highest bid­der. HURRY! 277-5798 Johnny SELL ME YOUR MIAMI GA'S! CALL KEVIN 4605 PURDUE STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE $20 CALL 3719 IF NOT SOLD BY 8 PM, PRICE GOES OOWN TO $15. I STILL HAVE ONE PURDUE STUDENT TICKET TO SELLI CALL 1511 HAVE 2 MIAMI STUD TIX TO SELL·· BEST OFFER CALL 1511  SOPHOMORES BEACON BOWL IS BACK! This Thursday--Buses leave main circle at 8:30 and 9:00. Transportation IS FREEl SOPHOMORE FORMAL Ia Oc1ober 7. Get a data belo111 lt'a too late I TONY RICE. THE TRUE STUDENT BODY IS 100 PERCENT BEHIND YOU. WE HAVE FAITH IN YOUR ARM. THE RUSH IS ON, HATE MIAMI IIIII JULIE WRIGHT TURNS 18 TOMOR· ROWI HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO A FINE  ........................,. .................... HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOMII You silly guy. Stick to your achedule like a real manl (Not like some people) Love, J and M SATURDAY IS TOM PARSLEY'S BIRTHDAYIII Call x-4357 and make obscene noises. He loves !hall ·········•··································· Rachael J. Have you told Gary aboul Scott; and Scott about Greg; and Greg about Rob; and Rob about Steve; and Steve about ? Someone who knows bet­ter to be One  
CAMPUS.272·6306 1 BEDROOM APT WITH KITCHEN. 3 BLKS FROM ND AVAILABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEKENDS. INCLUDES 2 TIX to GAME. $350 FOR WEEKEND CALL 219-272-2720. BED 'N BREAKFAST PRIVATE ROOM I BATH. MINS. FROM CAMPUS. 2111-277-78118. ................................................................ HOUSE FOR RENT OFF ANGELA. CALL 232-3616 WANTED  I REALLY NEED 4 STANFORD STU­DENT TIX TWO STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE AND 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE COMING IN FOR MY BIRTHDAY. PLEASE HELP ME GET MY PRESENTSIIIIIIIIIIIII CALL JOHN X2163 NEED 7 MIAMI TICKETS GA CALL SHARON 2845464 HATE MIAMIJII HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIIII I NEED 7 ( YES 7 ) MIAMI GA TIXIIIII CALL x1245 or x1352 $$$$ NEED PURDUE GA'S BADLY $$$$ CALL x 1649 HELPIIII NEED 2 PURDUE GA'sl CALL GREG x1655  NEED TWO GA'S & 1 STUDENT TIX FOR MIAMI PARENTS WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$$ CALL STEPH 1319 ............................ WILL SELL MY TWO MIAMI STUD. TICKETS TO HIGHEST BIDDER ON !¥.30 LEAVE OFFER AT 277·7298 .................. ....... DESPERATE need 1 GA for PU game. Am willing to trade other stud. tickets plus cash. no reasonable offer refused call Doug 684-4844 or 288-2528 .......................... NEED AIR FORCE AND MIAMI GAS­CALL 3348 FOR $$$$ MEOW MEOW SAID THE LIDDLE PUTTY-TAT. NEED 2 PENN ST. STUD TIX PAT X1535 .......... ................  2 Miami GA's 4 sale-best offer­Greg(904)492-1404 Need 4 GA Tix Miami. Call collect 215 94 7 5464-Brian I NEED 2 STANFORD STUDS!\\ CALL Greg x1655 FOR SALE: 1 GA for each Miami & AF games. Call X-4864. SELLING ALL STUDENT TICKETS 272· 9903 STANFORDI! Need to trade 2 student tix tor 2 GA's. PLEASE call Mimi at 284­5221 WILL PAY $40 FOR ANY MIAMI TIX .  DOMER DAME! LOVE, COLLEEN HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY JULIE WRIGHT! DON'T FORGET TO VOTE REPUBLICAN! WE LOVE YOU, KIM & SUSIE, SV '92. SCARY TtfOUGHT NUMBER 1: MICHELLE LAROSE, alias LoLa, is not yet 21 years old. SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 2: On Wednesday, September 28, LaLa turns 21. SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 3: LaLa thinks nobody will remember ~s her birthday. Hopefully these scary thoughts will make everyone get out and help make La La lolo on her big day.  CLASS OF 111111 CLASS OF 111111 00 YOU HAVE A DATE YET??II THE SOPHOMORE CLASS FALL FOR­MAL IS OCT. 7 BE THERE/I! ........................... FRANK STAMS, HE'S THE KIND OF GUY YOU'D GO TO BED WITH HICKEY! HICKEY! HICKEY\ THERESA BARNHARTIIII You'111 finally legal! Happy Birthday you auper RA youI Love, Farley Half Stall  - 
Reatau111nt OpportunltiH  Will trade 1 Miami stud. tick and $$ for 2 Penn Stale GA's. Call Allison X4341  I need 1 Stud. and 2 GA'a for Stanford. Call Mfke at 4100. i...NE.Eo···:;..·Pu.FiouE'·-;:;i\:s...$$...c'ACi..  284-5088.  I NEED ONE PURDUE PETER AT X1307.  STUD.  CALL  To Katie M.-a If was three weeks ago today wasn't It? But let's face It-even I knew I was going to gel "negged"l -O.A.  
Thl Olive Garden Italian R-urant, with Ita flvaly aplrft and unique g.orden Mlllng, ·fa now hlrtng ALL POSITIONS: . Hoata I Hoatn•• .Bartendl,. . Walta111 I Wa1t111...1 . Caahlera . Dlah-~tlllty . UM cooke . Produc11on I Prep Cooka . BuaMrl . Paata Makara PIHM apply 2prn-4pm, dally, 81: Tha Olive Garden 6410 Grape Road Mlahawaka An Equal Opportunity Employer THE OUVE GARDEN Tha Accent'a On Succna VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to provide FREE PREGNANCY TESTING AND COUNSELING CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES 234-3111  NEED 1 STANFORD STUD. TICKET Call Vln x2052 NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S lei Mom & Dad see the Irish I KELLY 288­5737 Need 2 GAa tor No-Miami game. Will pay big $$$. Call 284-5666. NEED 3 TIX TO STANFORD $$ 2697 ........................... NEED GA TlX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-oo58. $$$$$ I NEED PURDUE TIX CALL MIKE 4113 HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 GA TIX FOR PURDUE FOR PARENTS PAY BIG BUCKS CALL JIM 289-5120 Need 2 or 4 GAs-ANY HOME GAME x2707 Melissa ........................... Needed Desperately! Two Stanford GAs Can pay big $$$ Call Jon at 1598 HAVE 4 PURDUE GA'SII NEED 5 STAN­FORD GA'S --WANT TO TRADE ANOOR BUY PLEASE CALL MARK AT x1041  SHANE 289-4315 NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S 288-3639 TRADE 1"'PeNN s·;.::"FO'A''1'''M'IAMi~''2 RICE, OR CASH. MIKE X4103 WANTED 6 MIAMI GAs N~ R~~;;;;~~bj~ Offer Refused Call x4702 and leave a message 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET FOR SALE $15. *2055. MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED FOR MOM AND DAD AND THEIR FRIENDS. 6 GA, 4 STUD. WILLING TO TRADE STAN­FORD GA'S. CALL 233-3Q27. STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED 3 STUDS 2 GA'S CALL JIM 1935 I NEED Miami St. Tix x-2235 I have 2 Miami GAs Call collect at 914· 492·1404 with offers NEED Purdue tixs, stud or GA Chuck 2448 Need 2 student tickets lor Purdue. Please call Sus1e at 287-5602 if yo~ have any extra.  PERSONALS Thank you St. Jude and the Holy Spirit; you have never failed me. JMB LIVE MUSIC 10 PM-? NO COVER BOKO MARU AT MCCORMICK'S 115 N. MICHIGAN DOWNTOWN I NEED GA OR STUD TICKETS FOR STANDFORD. PLEASE CALL KATH­LEEN 5176 SMC I NEED AS MANY AS POSSIBLE I I NEED 5 GA PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN 5176 SMCI ............................................ DRUMMERS! BAND SEEKING DRUM­MER! INTERESTED? CALL II 3123 N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, LA COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A .. CA90037. 213-741­1336.  TIGGER, HELL WEEK IS OVER! LET THE ROMANCE RESUME! Thanx for being there. LOVE, STEVE NEED 5 RICE TIX TOGETHER OR IN BLOCKS OF 2 AND 3. AT LEAST 3 GA'S, 2 STUD OR GA. HAVE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S TO TRADE. CALL LAUREN X4041 ........................ GMPB, SO YOUR FINALLY 21. AT LEAST NOW I WON'T BE ROBBING THE CRADLE. ENJOY AND GOOD LUCK SURVIVING YOUR BIRTHDAY WITH ALL CONTENTS REMAINING IN­SIDE. AL I AM THE LAST OF THE SIX MAN TO GET A DATE. I NEED FEMALE COM· PANIONSHIP SOON. PLEASE CALL LONELY TOM AT 3283 IF YOU ARE WILLING TO HELP. RIDE FOR 2 NEEDED TO ANYWHERE WITHIN 2 HAS. DRIVE OF NYC FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES -CALL BRIAN AT X2035 DESPERATELY NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS AND 2 MIAMI STUDENT TIXS. PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT 277-3268 AFTER 5 P.M. PAT MULANE A ROSARY WAS SAID  vti.uNci. ciiiii::·F;;·t;;;··~i··;;;;;;;·i;;;;·k~~;;, In shining, slightly dented armor to lei the cry of a maiden go unheeded. But even a brave knight is loathe to go out on a limb and expose his phone number to the masaes. Perhaps my lady could sug­gest a meeting place? -Galahed SO. CAL CLUB SO. CAL CLUB MEETING: TUES.SEPT. 27 ii:oo QUESTIONS: CALL JENNIFER x3496 HAPPY BIRTHDAY LEONARDI WE LOVE YOUIII -US ...................... It's the Purdue All-American Marching Bandl With the golden gin, the gin in black, the silver twins, the all-american twins, the world's largest basa drum, and the Bill Moffit Soundpower Series! (bubbida-bubblda-bum) THEY DON'T HAVE THE IRISH GUARD THOUGHIII GO MARCHING IRISH! ROCK THE STADIUM TOMORROW...frdmfh ............................................ LIZARDS LIZARDS LIZARDS SET THE UZARDS FREE!Ill Handa clenched on the wheel, ahe Mya: Welt 0111-. ­00 hava a dae­lgnated drtver, but I'm not 1111 oopel Until tomorrow with anothar ltzarcly memory! In Uzardl -Trult, IC  
WANTED --Pan-time wa1tresaes to work evemngs and weekends. Friendly atmo­aphere,deacent pay. II Interested call 234-1067,Aak for Betty or Greg. WANTED-TOUR REPRESENTATIVE Eatabllahed Tour Opera1or Mlkalocal  WANTED: 2 PURDUE STUD OR GA MAUREEN X4112 WILL TRADE PURDUE STUD TICKET & ~$ FOR MIAMI STUD TICKET CALL GREG II 1730  One Purdue Student Ticket Available. 289-8020 Brian I need 2 AF GA'sl DAWNx2286 I HAVE PERDUE AND STANFORD STU TIX CALL JIM AT 271-8307  PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB OctoberS us October Bus Sign Up Sign Up Monday Sept 26  FOR YOU DOWN AT THE GROTTO A FELLOW DOMER LOOKI I am taking a poll. II you think Robin VIllanueva Ia gnaat, piMM call 3474 and let Barb know.  Hey, Hay ~·a NORA PURTELL'S B-Day The Big "18" S.M.D. Love, Kathleen & Julie Betesvllle, "You are a dorl<l"  
Rep to help promote and Mil Sprlr19 BrMk Trlpa to Cancun, AcapulcO end Bahamaa. Muat bl egreaalve, peraon­ablaand worll7-10 houraa -"·Earn S3,000c on average plua FrM Trtpl Call (1100)255-3058.  HELP HELP HELP need five STAN· FORD GA'S Tony II ?020 I NEED STANFORD GA's I NEED STANFORD GA's BIG $$$$$$$$'S CALL ED 1753  2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR SALE.272·8863 .................... I NEED MIAMI STUD AND GA TIX FOR MY BROTHER'S B-DAY PARTY. WILL PAY$$. CALL BERNIE 239-77~.  7:00 Sorin Room LaFortune AVOID THE RUSHIIII Hate Rice Eartylll  Hey--11 you are trying to sell Kelly a hate­Miami T-shirt, I DON'T KNOW YOUR NAME therefore, I can't call you. Please leave a mesaage with the roommate or keep trying to call. The number Is 2718. thanka ---Kelly.  LOOK OUT, PAT MURPHY ... See Classified, page 10  





page 16 

Women's soccer improves, hosts Adrian, St. Joseph's 
By ALYSSA FLECK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish women's soccer team is hoping to add two more wins to its 4-2 record this weekend. They will face Adrian tonight at 5 p.m., and St. Joseph's on Sunday, Sep­tember 25 at 3 p.m. 
Head Coach Dennis Grace is not sure of what to expect from the Adrian team, but the Irish have been working hard in their practices and have made great improve­ments in the past couple of weeks. They will be working on their offensive and defen­sive restarts for this weekend's games, and will continue to work on getting the back and midfield into the attack. 
Grace is optomisti~ about Sunday's game, the Irish having already beaten St. Joseph's on the road earlier 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
be the site of both games, tonight's contest with unde­feated Western Michigan at 
7:30 and Sunday's 1 P.M. matinee with NAIA power Bir­mingham Southern. 
Both visiting teams can boast of impressive records and sta­tistics. Western Michigan brings a 3-0-1 mark to the Stadium, while Birmingham Southern is 3-2 with three shutouts and a 24-4 scoring edge over its opponents. 
"Maybe their schedules aren't tough," said Grace, "but when you win ballgames, you're confidence goes right up. We have to maintain our intensity for 90 minutes --we can't afford any "Coca-Cola breaks <Grace's term for his team's repeated lulls so far this season)." 
One player Grace expects those 90 minutes from is Kern. In a very short time, the 5-11, 180-pounder from San Jose, Cal­ifornia has already impressed with his skills and experience. 
"He plays wing-back, stopper-back, and mid­fielder," noted Grace. "Hell, he'd probably play goal if I asked him to --and do well." 
Kern isn't your average, straight-from-high school to college soccer, freshman. In fact, Grace cites Kern's expe­rience, especially on nationally competitive club teams, as one of his greatest assets. 
"Physically, I can match-up with college players," said Kern. "I played at a high level on clubs; that experience has helped me a great deal." 
Starting for an up-and­coming soccer team is heady stuff for a freshman, but Kern is taking it in stride and keeping his eyes set on team­goals. 
"Starting my first college game was a big thrill," ad­mitted Kern. "I have to con­tinue working on my game and improving. We're going to lose a lot of seniors next year, so the younger players are going to have to be leaders. We're on our way to the NCAA's. We know we can do it." 
One of the key elements in

.. 
working toward that NCAA berth will be winning every game which is supposed to be won, including both games this weekend. 
"If we get out of this weekend 

this season. Although they did not have much trouble in the teams' first meeting, Grace says they will still have to "play really hard." He is very pleased with the 'team's recent progress, and he is impressed with the work ethic of the practices. "I am amazed with how 
far we have come in just the 
past month," Grace said. 
"The team looks better and 
better at each practice." 

The players themselves are looking forward to the next two games. "We're really psyched," said fresh­man Deborah Skahan. "Wednesday night's win over Wheaton helped lift the team, and we're really up for these next games. We're hoping to see a lot of support out at the field." 
Both of the games are to be played on Notre Dame's Krause field. 
undefeated," said Grace, "that'll set us up for our big Bowling Green trip (Tuesday afternoon) and the middle of our schedule, which is very tough." 
Mitch Kern simply hopes that he can continue his success and create a long, successful Notre Dame career. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

BLUE AND GOLD CARD EXCHANGE Monday, September 26th Tuesday, September 27th at theNorth and South Dining Halls Must have temporary Blue and Gold Card to exchange for a permanent card. Permanent cards also available for $10.00 

0.5.-Soviet Relations: l Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday Oct9ber 6th 8 to 10 p.m. 
WHERE: JACC 
TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff 
$6-adults 
Tickets should be purchased in advance. 
On Sale (starting September 26th Monday) M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC Also will be sold in the dining halls 
The Observer Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
SMC tennis wins two matches 
By MARY KATE COYLE son 9-0. 
Sports Writer " It really feels as though we are in a tennis groove after win­The Saint Mary's tennis team ning the Invitational," said 
tacked ori two more victories Belles' co-captain Jennifer to its season record, raising it's Block of last weekend's Saint mark 6-0. 
Mary's Invitational. "All the On Tuesday, the Belles hard work and sweat is paying 
traveled to <nderson College. off." They went out on the courts and On Wednesday, the Belles proved they are serious com­
traveled to University of Illi­petitors, winning at every nois, capturing another win, 7­
flight and shutting out Ander-2. The Illini were one of the 


Griffin 
continued from page 14 
than all things to all men, drawing them into the web of His love, through insights filled with grace, based on piecemeal evidence?" 
I said: "What does it mean: the last temptation of the Church?" 
He answered: "On the eve of Armageddon, hardnoses of every variety will be insisting that salvation depends on believers having the right kinds of thoughts--the same 


LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a l1fesav1ng 

Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
m!l 

limited thoughts they have in their own heads. Orthodoxy is important; that's why the Holy Spirit is its Guardian. But the splendid ambiguities 
and contradictions that the 
Holy Spirit left in Scripture 
are important, too; otherwise 
there wouldn't be so many of 
them." 

The lights were turned down to signal that the movie was beginning. "Is this film, then, offensive?" 
He answered: "In compari­son with other things, it's as blameless as the catechism. It could remind unimagina-
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME & IVVPE-f'MBB 
PRliENT 
THE HEART AND SOUL 
Of SOUTH AFRICAN &ONOI 

MIRIAM MAKEBA 
ANO 

HUGH MASEKELA 
Tickets Available at• Joyce AeC Box Office 4& -, • LaFortune Box Office 239-7442 ~~ __{~] • O"Laughlin Aud. 284-4626 
-·-·-· ntJDeHT..-•o.uo 
tougher teams on the Belles' schedule. 
The Belles have proved themselves as a strong, domi­nant team, definitely a team to look out for. If the Belles can keep their dynamic record, they could be on their way to a state title. On Monday, the Belles will compete against Tri State, on the Saint Mary's ten­nis coqrts. 
tive teachers of how incon­
gruous it was for the Word to 
become flesh. But have you 
heard Jimmy Swaggart 
preaching on hellfire?" 
All at once, I felt that the darkness around me was ho­ly, but the seat beside me was empty. He left me His popcorn. On top was a Bible tract; the stamp on it said: "Support Grace Rescue Mis­sion." 
I was not asleep; this was not a dream. It's not hard to recognize Jesus; you can tell it's Him by the scars on His hands like a si nature. 

~---~~--~~----~-­
------------~--­
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Stepan Court time requests now are being taken to reserve a court for your hallk>rganization. Please pick up an applica­tion in the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. The deadline for applying is Sept. 
30. -The Observer 
Blue and Gold Cards will be sold and exchanged at dining halls during dinner next Monday and Tuesday. You must have your temporary cards with you to receive a per­manent card. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will play a match against Purdue at the Joyce ACC courts at 10 a.m. Saturday. This is the first squash match at Notre Dame in three years. -The Observer 
Domer Runs will be this Sunday at 1 
p.m. The three-mile and six-mile runs, spon­sored by Non-Varsity Athletics, will include both individual and dorm competitions. If you sign up with your dorm, you automati­cally are signed up individually. The fee for the runs is $4 in advance and $5 the day of the race. -The Observer 
The NO-Purdue pep rally will be held at 7 p.m. tonight on the Stepan basketball courts. -The Observer 
Stepan Courts will be reserved from 
4:15 to 6:15p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons running through Wed­nesday, Sept. 28. The 5-10 and Under Basket­ball tourney will be held during these times and have priorities on the courts. -The Ob­server 
The Squash Club will conduct practice at 4 p.m. today at the Joyce ACC in prepa­ration for Saturday's match against Purdue. Plasyers will meet at 9:30a.m. on Saturday before the Purdue match. -The Observer 
John Lujack, Notre Dame's former Reisman Trophy winner, will be signing autographs from 10:30 to 11:30 Saturday morning at the Joyce ACC concourse on the second floor. Posters featuring a replica of Saturday's game cover, which features Lujack, will be sold at the concourse for $7 during the autograph session. -The Observer 

SaturdayNight Worship & Praise A CHRISTIAN CONTEMPORARY WORSHIP SERVICE ON SATURDAY NIGHT 6:00PM Nursery Provided 
*Especially for University Students *Biblical Preaching *Social Interaction 
Bible Teacher-Marcus Warner Pastor of University Outreach 
d~ 

~~ 7215 Grape Road THE {behind Chi-Chi's)NEW Granger, IN 277_
4737
CHIIRCH-.r 




SANDI PATTI 

IN CONCERT 
1988-1989 WORLD TOUR 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 7:30PM 
NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. ALL SEATS RESERVED: $11.50 AND $9.50 
TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY, 
SEPTEMBER 26  
TICKETS  AVAILABLE  AT  THE  J.A.C.C.  BOX  
OFFICE,  ALL  TICKET  MASTER  LOCATIONS,  
BETHEL  BOOKSTORE  (ELKHART  AND  

MISHAWAKA), CHRISTIAN LIGHT (NAPANEE), BAKER'S BOOKSTORE (ST. JOSEPH, Ml), WORD OF LIFE (MICHIGAN CITY) AND CHRISTIAN CENTER (SOUTH BEND). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 1-800-284-3030 $1.00 OFF FOR GROUPS OF 20 OR MORE THROUGH BOX OFFICE ONLY PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS AND NEW COVENANT PRODUCTIONS 
The Observer 
-------------------...._.., 
page 17 

Sooners take a pass on Southern Cal 
Associated Press 
Jamelle Holieway, the con­
. summate wishbone quarter­back, says Oklahoma may take to the air Saturday when the third-ranked Sooners face No. 5Southern California in the Los Angeles Coliseum. "We have to put points on the· board, and the only way to do that is to throw the ball," he said. "I believe it's going to be a high-scoring game." The Sooners, 2-0, have lost their past two meetings with the Trojans, 2-0, and have scored only seven points in the last six quarters against USC. Holieway has attempted 10 passes this year in victories over North Carolina and Arizona, completing five for 134 yards and one touchdown. The Sooners rank fifth in the nation in rushing with 328 yards a game while the Trojan defense is 12th best against the run. USC coach Larry Smith realizes the game will loom large in the national rankings. 
Coast team hasn't captured the 
national championship since 
USC won in 1972. 
"This is a big game for na­
tional prestige," he said. 
In other games involving Top 
20 teams, Wisconsin visits No. .1 Miami, Fla.; Tennessee is at No. 4 Auburn; No. 6 Georgia travels to No. 14 South Carolina; No. 7 LSU plays at Ohio State; No.8 Notre Dame hosts Purdue; Michigan State faces No. 9 Florida State; and Arizona State meets No. 10 Ne­
braska. 
Also, No. 11 West Virginia is at No. 16 Pitt; No. 12 Clemson travels to Georgia Tech; Van­derbilt visits No. 13 Alabama; No. 15 Penn State hosts Rug­ters; San Jose State is at No. 17 Washington; Texas A&M faces No. 18 Oklahoma State; Wake Forest travels to No. 19 Michigan; and Mississippi State plays at No. 20 Florida. 
Columbia, losers of 42 games in a row, plays Lafayette, 2-0, in New York. The Lions bowed to Harvard, 41-7, in their first 
1~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii·-----~_;H;e~i;s~a~ls~o~a;w;a~r~e~t~h=a~t~a~W;_:es:_t game and have not won since 
a 21-18 victory over Yale on Oct. 15, 1983.
KAMPAI SERRA-CHAN !! 
On the other hand, the top­rated Hurricanes, 2-0, have
ICKI -1 CKI -ICKI 
won 34 consecutive regular­season games, including a thrilling 31-30 come-from­behind victory last week over
Our little 
Michigan.
geisha-Qirl is 
Miami coach Jimmy Johnson is grateful for the chance to 
now 21! play the winless Badgers --42­
1

omed t
e 0 ne. Lots of love-all your friends. 
point underdogs --after two games against nationally-
ranked opponents. 
"I think it's a little bit of a relief not going into another week of hype and emotion," he said, hoping to move his team closer to the record of 45 
...-.rnzJ-ooiiiiiiJii.,... Rev. Russell Fish, Pastor ~~~~~~~~~~.::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::Jstraight victories, set by Okla­
~;.;;;;.;.;;;;;.;;;--.___________....;.___.... homa from 1953-57. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;~~~~~~·········································································



: ..II,. 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
: ..... I 
i• DOMER 
: 3 AND 6 MILE RUNS 
: SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 25
•

: BOTH RACES AT 1:00 PM 
• DORM COMPETITION
• 

• 
5-7 person teams Top five score 

• 
Team members automatically entered 

• 
in individual competition Entry Fee: $4.00 per person In advance 

• 
$5.00 per person day of 

• 
Trophies for 1st Place Men & Women 


• 

INDIVIDUAL COMPETITION 
Six Divisions: Men's & Women's Undergrads Men's & Women's Grad Men's & Women's Fac/Staff 
Trophies to 1st and 2nd in each Division 
Entry Fee: $4.00 in advance $5.00 day of 
e TROPHIES 
: 
i : •
: 
• 
: : • .. 
• 
• 
• • 
• • • 
e 

: T-SHIRTS AWARDED TO ALL FINISHERS : e DOOR PRIZES e 
.• --------/~....----......~,-------.• 
: -----Jr -$ lE===== : 
e DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 21 e e CALL 239-6100 e 
~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;;;:;:;:;:;;;;;:;:;~········································································· 
---~-~---------.......
----~--~-­
--·-·----­
The Observer
page 18 

Williams makes big hits for Irish 
By FRANK PASTOR man got hurt and I had to move game. The Wolverines were Sports Writer over to tackle because I had held to less than three yards played that position before. I per carry. 
To add a slight twist to feel that it's really my best po­"They did a good job against former President Theodore sition." a darn good Michigan offensive Roosevelt's famous line, Notre Defensive tackles coach John line, " asserted Palermo. "We Dame's George Williams Palermo couldn't agree more. knew going into the game that speaks softly but delivers some The first-year coach believes Michigan was going to be big hits. that Williams' attributes are tough. We had to play hard and 
The sophomore defensive tailor-made for his new (old) really get ourselves tackle from Willingboro, NJ position. prepared." has earned a reputation this Williams has registered 17 season for punishing opposing "He's got good quickness, total tackles in the two games, ballcarriers and quarterbacks pretty good football sense, and including 12 unassisted. He also while maintaining an always he's really made some prog­recorded one tackle for loss and pleasant demeanor. Even amid ress this season, " Palermo an important quarterback sack a series of position changes. said of Williams. "He's also in last Saturday's 20-3 defeat of 
Originally a defensive done a good job of keeping his Michigan State. tackle, Williams was moved to weight down, which helps him nose guard last year where he perform better." This week, Williams and Co. played behind senior starter "I guess I'm quicker than I prepare to face Purdue's explo­Mike Griffin. Following an im-look, " quipped the 6-3,283-sive passing attack. The defen­pressive showing in spring pound Williams. sive line must put pressure on practice, Williams won the Because of his history of po-Boilermaker quarterback starting spot and was slated to sition changes, one is hesitant Shawn McCarthy if it is to start ahead of Chris Zorich and to call Williams' most recent make things easier on the Steve Roddy in the September move permanent. But if his much-maligned Irish second­lOth opener against Michigan. early-season performance is ary. However, a sudden wave of in-any indication, Williams might "Purdue is a very good pass­juries soon mandated a change finally have found a home at ing team, " said Williams, of plans. defensive tackle. "and this will be a real big test The Observer/David Fischer 
"Coming out of spring prac-The front line of Williams, for our pass rush. We really Sophomore George Williams makes a tackle against the Michigan tice, I was number one at nose Zorich, and Jeff Aim combined haven't had a big test yet, be-Wolverines. Despite switching positions (and switching back again), guard, " said Williams. "Then to shut down Michigan's potent cause Michigan and Michigan Williams has made his mark on the defense. Frank Pastor features 
AMERICA'S NATIONAL STUDENT, 


CONTEST
YOUTH & BUDGET TRAVEL EXPERTS 
<;,;;s-.ta.rt.,...iniiliig._l.e.ft.t..a,.ck.,l.e...)...T...o.-m....,.G...o...r-_...r.-u~sh•i•noliilg_a..,t-.ta"':c•k~in~th:-e-..o...p...,en~i~niliiilg_S~t-a~te~a...re...b~o-t;,;;h;.;r"""u.,sh•i•n;lijg.,;t.;,ea;;;;m~s-.'_' 
~-­
Ir Is • h 
continued from page 24 
The team got an outstanding performance from sophomore outside hitter Tracey Shelton, who played in her first match of the year against Purdue. 
The 5'6 Shelton played in all four games of the match and recorded 10 kills, 15 digs and two service aces for the Irish. 
"I'm delighted with the play of Tracey Shelton and Maureen Shea played extremely well," said Lambert. "But it's hard to be totally pleased when you have the talent to beat them and you keep coughing the ball up." 
Notre Dame will try to rally from its three-match losing streak tonight when it takes on visiting Rice in the JACC. 
The Irish are 1-1 with the Owls in their series history, winning last year in five games, 7-15, 15-11, 10-15, 15-6 and 15-7 and will play at home for the first time since their 

..... Sept. 7 loss to Stanford . "You achieve what you aspire to," said Lambert, and if we are going to improve as 
.. 
a team each girl has got to Debbie Haley and middlP reachdowninsideandhelpher-blocker Suzanne Zakrzewski, self. It all goes back to expec-won -second-team All­tations and right now our's are Conference honors last year in too low." the Southwest Conference and 
The Irish will have to deal should help the 5-3 Owls . with Rice's 5'10 outside hitter "Everybody realizes what Diane Kuhlman and her team-has to be done," said Lambert, mates who have earned a "so now we just have to go out reputation for being a hard-there and do it. I think we're working team that hustles to going to play well against Rice maintain ball control. and if we get a win now we'll 
Two juniors, outside hitter be just fine.'' 

the large lineman at left. 
.----------------------..
The Notre Dame Golf Shop 

Exclusive Notre Dame Golf Wear and Equipment Distinctive Gift! for Christmas and all Occasions :::iloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls. Towels, Umbrellas Open Year-Round Located "On the Curve~ in the Rockne Memorial Ice Cream -Fountain Service 
SEND FOR OUR BROCHURE AND ORDER FORM 
Golf Shop -University or Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239-6425 


VISIT THE BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE 18 Hole Golf Course Pu uing Green Practice Fairv.·ay 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP Exclusive Notre Dame Golf Wear and Equipment Distinctive Gifts for Christmas and all Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas Located '"On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
SEND FOR OUR BROCHURE AND ORDER FORM 
Golf Shop -Unlverslt~· or :-.iotre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239-6425 



LIP SYNC 
• 
Worldwide StudenVYouth Fares 

• 
Regulary Scheduled Airline Tickets 

• 
Rail Passes • Budget & Student Tours OCTOBER 6 

• 
International Student I.D. Cards 

• 
Youth Hostel Cards 



MANY MORE STUDENT TRAVEL DEALS 
Interested in participating? 
831 Foster Street 29 E. Delaware Evanston, IL 60201 Chicago, IL 60611 
Call 239-6940 
312-475-5070 312-951-0585 
Ask for Maura 
Out of Illinois: 1-800-545-8999 



or 28 7 3 
Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 The Observer page 19 
Yanks battle Boston, but don't forg.et 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --The second act of the Yankees-Red Sox drama, opening in the Bronx Friday night, will determine whether New York is ready for the bright lights or the small time. 
Boston holds a 4 l!2 game lead over the third-place Yankees entering the three-game series. Milwaukee is four games back. 
"We still control our own des­gan told his players after the Red Sox lost 1-0 Wednesday night in Toronto. "It's been that way since Aprill or whatever. We're still out in front and they've got to catch us." 

A week ago, the charging Yankees swept into Fenway Park, hoping to cut into a 4 l!2 game deficit. New York won the first game against Roger Clemens but the Red Sox swept 
tiny boys," Manager Joe Mor-the next three and seemingly 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. ­~ Call 239-6900 C 
exiled the Yankees from the 
American  League  East  title  
chase.  
"We're  where  we  were  

before," Yankee relief pitcher Dave Righetti said. "But this time, I think it would be a good chance to win all of them." 
"They made it like this," said catcher Don Slaught, whose 12th-inning homer Wednesday night gave the Bronx Bombers a 3-2 victory over the Baltimore 
Mayhem 
continued from page 24 
Meanwhile, the Korean fighter was holding a silent protest of the decision, sitting in the empty ring for more than an hour until the lights were turned off in the gym. 
Imagine sit-in protests of of­ficiating in American sports. 
'=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ Michigan football coach Bo
1 Schembechler would be sitting alone on the 50-yard line after almost every loss. There was an American protest Wednesday as well, al­beit one of the more traditional variety. 


Orioles. "We've done our job this week and so far they haven't done theirs." 
The Red Sox lost two of three games in Toronto this week and have dropped eight of 10 to the Blue Jays this season. 
Boston plays Toronto in a three-game series beginning Monday in Fenway Park before ending the year with four games in Cleveland. 
U.S. gymnastics officials, coaches and gymnasts lashed out at the East German of­ficiating after the Americans barely lost a bronze medal to East Germany. The East Ger­man judge issued a half-point penalty on the American team when alternate gymnast Rhonda Faehn stepped on the uneven bars podium to remove the springboard of teammate Kelly Garrison-Steves while Steves was competing. 
Faehn stayed on the podium to watch the rest of the routine, and the rules state that once a competitor begins a routine, no one else · is allowed on the podium. 
Brewers 

"We're still in first place and the other clubs have to catch us," Red Sox reliever Bob Stan­ley said. "You can be sure we're happier where we are than the other teams are." 
The Yankees close with seven road games in Baltimore and Detroit. If they are still in contention when the regular season ends Oct. 2, they will host the Texas Rangers in a make-up game Oct. 3. 
The East Germans took the bronze medal by less than a half point, and the Americans were outraged. 
Faehn obviously was not coaching her teammate or doing anything to help the American cause. In fact, three of the six judges did not even notice her. But the East Ger­man judge apparently was watching Faehn instead of the routine, and then watched her own country's team move ahead of the Americans for the bronze. 
What's next? 
Certainly not homework during Olympic hours. 







UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
BRINGS YOU .THREE P'S TO ENJOY DURING THE PURDUE GAME WEEKEND 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PIZZA-N.Y. STYLE SHEET PIZZA. OUR FULL SHEET IS LARGER THAN 2, 16 INCH ROUND PIZZAS, OR WE'LL CUT IT IN HALF, OR EVEN A QUARTER-WE'LL FILL ANY APPETITE. 
LOWEST PRICES EVERYDAY, PLUS 3 COUPON SPECIALS TO MAKE YOUR PRE OR POST GAME PARTY COMPLETE. 
FROM LOU'S IRISH DELIVERED TO BOILERMAKERS 
THE FIGHTING IRISH WILL DELIV~R THE PAIN, BUT WE'LL DELIVER THE BEST TO YOU, FAST, HOT, & FREE. 
18055 SR23 
FOR FREE DELIVERY CALL:  (BEHIND CAMPUSVIEW)  
OPEN AT NOON SATURDAY. OPEN UNTIL 3 a.m. FRIDAY & SATURDAY.  277-8889  (LOOK FOR OUR OTHER SPECIALS ON THE BACK COVER OF THE NOOMC  
MATI HIGHBARGER-ND '89-0WNER  STUDENT BUSINE~S DIRECTORY)  

--------------~--------------·------------­

1 50 CENTS OFF I 
I ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA II (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) I I FREE DELIVERY I I 277-8889 I
1 I
I 

$1.00 OFF 
ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA (LJI["V'iER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) FREE DELIVERY 277-8889 
I 
UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 10-23-88 UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 10-23-88 18055 ST. RD. 23 18055 ST. RD. 23
I 
I

I $2.00 OFF I 
I 

ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA
II 
I

(LARGER THAN TWO 16" ROUND PIZZAS) 
I

FREE DELIVERY 
I

I 277-8889 
I
I

I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 10-23-88 I 118055 ST. RD. 23 
I 

~--------------------------------------------· 
...... 


-r---~~~---~-----~--­
t page 20 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 
~ 
l I 
~ 
f 
~ 
Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and the golden glory of Notre Dame ... 
"In thi.'l treasury of memorabilio., editors Robert Quakenbush and Mike Bynum have comprised an irrhrc;''ive and informative keepsake about an American hero,. a legend who lives on in the hearts of many." 
SOLlTH RENU TR!RllNE 
... on sale now at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Coming soon from October Football Corp. 
Many Autumns ·Ago: The Frank Leahy Era at Boston College and Notre Dame. 
I 
I I , ! 
-~­
' 


Mayhem reigns at the Olympic boxing competi­AP Photo tion In Seoul. Above, Korean officials and spec­Below, South Korean aulstant boxing coach Park tators voice their opinions of a judges ruling. Hyung-choon takes a seat during the melee. 
:i/':.!1'
~\c,-rt. -~ 
., ~ -~ ...:,.' T''
t· ·­
' "'I 

'!J~.6
,
'*~·~f\' 
• ,)b~wu4; ~oi•J 
,. 

\ ­
1 


Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea --Byun 
Jong-il sat 67 minutes in a 
boxing ring Thursday, trying to 
understand the nine minutes of 
fighting that went before and 
the 4-1 decision that followed, 
the two penalty points that 
went against him and what 
they may have cost him. 
But no matter how hard or how many times Byun tried, whether he sat in the glaring lights or the glowing dark, the numbers just wouldn't add up. Which explains, perhaps, how he could have begun Thursday full of fancy and just 19, and ended it feeling all of 90 and looking for a place to bury those dreams. 
"He is sleeping, it is better that he sleeps," a member of the Korean Olympic delegation who identified himself only as Mr. Chun, said in a telephone interview from the athletes' village early Friday. 
"He feels that he won the game and so he sits in protest. Now, it is better that he sleeps for a while," he continued. "His problem has ended." 
Actually, it may just be beginning. And the problem is no longer just his. 
Byun, a bantamweight, was suspended indefinitely from competition by the Interna­tional Amateur Boxing Associ­ation (AlBA), and may not box again for years. 
Five South Korean officials one an assistant coach and an­other a trainer --who took part in the punch-kick-and ear­pulling attack on referee Keith Walker following the decision were thrown out of their own Olympics by the AlBA. 
And Walker, who assessed the penalty points against Byun for butting in his morning bout against Bulgarian Alexa'ndar Hristov, is heading home to New Zealand and early retire­ment. 
"Walker had said this (Olympics) would probably be his last anyway," said Paul Thompson, a member of Australia's National Olympic Committee. "For his own bene­fit, he did the smart thing. Why stay here and get crucified? 
"But," Thompson added, 
................... 

"GLASNOST juM keeps on comin' at 
you. By 1990 it may not be nec­
essary to go to the CIA for a 
reliable map of Moscow. At the 
same ti..,.e, though, KGII chairman 
Viktor Cheb.tkov reminds us of 
the vital diwnction between lib­
erty and license. A timely warn­
ing. First you let 'em have maps 
and the next thing 
you know it's porn To subscribe to Na·
tiona/ Review call 

and drugs and ha­
1-800-341-1522, or

beas corpus." 
write NR, 150 East
35th Street, New 

"this is a sad way to end a career." 
As Thompson spoke to reporters at the close of the evening session, Australian boxer Darrell Hiles stood nearby, nodding and dabbing a towel on the nasty gash Korean boxer Lee Jae-hyuk had opened moments earlier --also by but­ting. Lee won 5-0. 
"I think (what happened) this morning affected Darrell's mind," said teammate Darren Obah, unsolicited. "We noticed it in the first round. It was kind of scary out there. 
"You could feel it in your bones," Obah said. "It gave me the shivers." 
Indeed, AlBA officials had expressed doubts earlier in the day about whether there would even be a night session, but removed them after as­surances from the Seoul Olym­pic Organizing Committee that additional security measures would be in place at ringside. 
For much of the afternoon, the New Zealand Embassy in Seoul was deluged with calls protesting the split decision. Several callers cursed, one man identified himself as a businessman and said he had canceled a contract, another demanded severing diplomatic ties. 
And even before the Byun­Hristov fight Korean newspapers had stoked the lo­cals with accounts of how U.S. officials were lobbying against Korean boxers. 
According to the stories, the Americans were still upset over the elimination earlier this week of middleweight An­thony Hembrick, who missed the bus, arrived too late for his fight against Ha Jong-ho of South Korea and was dis­qualified. 
Before the Hembrick fiasco, the Koreans were undefeated. They lost four straight after, the last being Byun. 
The South Korean team is now minus a coach and a trainer, who were knocked out of their own Olympics for at­tacking Walker. 
The suspensions, announced Tuesday night, also involved a member of the Korean Boxing 
.Federation executive board and two Olympic helpers. 
"I have no words to defend it," said Anwar Chowdhry of Pakistan, president of the In­ternational Amateur Boxing Association. 
"Th k' k' d
ey were 1C mg an 

punching and pulling my hair out," Walker said. "I was
• 

~~~·=·=~·=··=~·=:::..:.":.:.,.:..:-~-~~~~~~~~N~,'!~"'~~~$~~6~~,~ k~~~:~co~c~~~ back by the 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Feature's Photo Editor 
For further Information contact 
Mike Moran by Tuesday, Sept. 27 at 12 noon 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
~ 

----------------------------------~----------------~­

I 
I 
AP Photo
Members of the USA mlm's 4 x 200 m freestyle team (from left, Douglas Gjertsen, Matthew Cet-The anchor swimmer, Matt Biondi, was still in the llnskl and Troy Dalbey) celebrate their gold medal. water. 
Olympic weekend preview 
Lewis hunts for more gold 
Associated Press his quest to repeat his four gold medal performance of 1984 --a 
SEOUL, South Korea --The feat duplicating the efforts of 100-meter dash offers Carl Jesse Owens in the 1936 Olym­Lewis adouble chance at Olym-pies. pic distinction. "I just want to run each step 
The headline event on Day 7 one at a time," Lewis said. -Saturday in Seoul, Friday in "The 100 meters is a big event 
the United States --carries with it the chance at earning the title, "the world's fastest man" for Lewis, and is the first step of his quadruple gold chase. 
The final of the 100-meter dash is expected to offer a matchup between Lewis and Canadian Ben Johnson, the world's two fastest sprinters. 
"It's good for track and field just like Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier were good for boxing," Lewis said. "I feel 
what we're doing is focusing at­tention on our sport and ad­vancing our sport." 
The 100-meter dash will also be the first step for Lewis in 

for me. I'll put 110 percent into that. Then comes the 200, the long jump and the relay. That's the way I'm going to go into this. I'm not going to an­ticipate." 
The triple jump will also be contested. American Willie Banks, who won the event four years ago, is again the favorite. 
The women's heptathlon 

moves into its second day. ------------,,• 
American Jackie Joyner-Kersee, the only heptathlete to surpass 7,000 points --she has done it four times --has said she will aiming to break her world record. 
Mary T. Meagher, an Olym-

Atlantic Ocean Living Child Care or Elderly Non-Infirmary Care 
.. 

Full time Live-in position available in Boston . Call or write: Helping Hand 25 West St. P.O. Box 17 Beverl Falls, Ma 01919 1-800-356-3422 
DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 
SZE;.CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND. AMERICAN DISHES · 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS 

• 
FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION 

• 
HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE DINING 

• 
VEGETARIAN MENU 


6329 University Commons HOURS Man Thurs 11 AM-9 PM (Across From University Park Mall) Friday II AM-10 PM South Bend, IN 46635 Saturday 12 Noon-10 PM 

I ur Ue.<ervatiom & Carry-Oul Call: 
272-6702 
pic triple-gold medalist in 1984, will begin her attempt to dupli­cate that feat in the women's 100-meter butterfly --friday night in Seoul, Friday in the United States --a day of five swimming finals, the first three track and field medal events, and the first appear­ances of Lewis and Edwin Moses. 
Meagher, who will turn 24 next month, is the oldest mem­ber of the U.S. women's swim team. She has held world records in the women's 100-and 200-meter butterfly for more than seven years. 
ENGINEERING 
JOBS 

Don't send blind resumes! Use our weekly listing of the best opportunities nation-wide. $14/12 issues. 
JOBNET. POB 12817, LAKEPARK,FL 33403-0817. SPECIFY YOUR MAJOR: ME, CE, OREE. 
Benes pitches in Seoul, but his heart is in Indiana 
Associated Press eluding his Olympic ·debut, a 
three-hit, 12-2 rout of Australia 

SEOUL, South Korea --At $3 on Wednesday. a minute to phone home, even Often behind the hitters, he the top pick in the major league walked four in 6 2-3 innings, baseball draft can't afford to while striking out four. call his wife in Indiana as often "I think I've been having as he'd like. trouble with my mechanics," 
Still, Andy Benes is glad Jen-Benes said. "The biggest thing nifer, who is seven months I need to do is be more consis­pregnant, didn't come to the tent and stay together (in good Summer Olympics. form) through my delivery." 
"It's hard being away from Benes, who probably will her, and she really wanted to pitch again next week in the be here. But the doctor thought medal round, almost got a com­she'd better stay home since plete -~ if short --game in his we're expecting a baby in No-outing against Australia. vember," the American After the Aussies scored two pitcher explained. runs in the top of the seventh 
"I know it's hard on her right to cut the Americans' lead to now, my not being there. And 4-2, Charles Nagy relieved him it's hard on me, too, being ·and got the final out of the in­away. I feel bad that I can't be ning. with her now, because I feel The U.S. team then came up like she needs me there." with eight runs in the bottom 
Benes, a powerful 6-foot-6, of the inning and the game was 235-pounder from the Univer-called because of the Olympic sity of Evansville, was selected rule ending games if a team first by the San Diego Padres leads by 10 or more runs after in the June draft. seven innings. 
His fastball tops 90 mph, but "I knew if I could just hold he has been having some trou-them that we'd finally lock it ble with his control recently, in-up," he said. 
eO/liE!IIIII/[)/1/E(T t(()UR Plllt.l FR/, .. 9-2,-oo 

cfi1T.,,, OPE# 1/2 1/()tiR
. 

lifTER TilE111!!E't 
eotVettttlotV 

••etMitG•to•TttloYttlcetiVtfN•cnttEtf•• 
* 
* 
*



VAN HALEN 
* 

SUNDAY OCT. 30--7:30*PM RESERVED SEATS $16.50 
Ticket sale for NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S Students-Faculty/Staff Will take place THIS MONDAY 10:00 AM At Ticket Windows located at Gate 3 of JACC Limit four tickets per purchase. VALID ID REQUIRED
* NO one may assemble before 8:00am. Drawing for position in ticket line at 9:00 am--Sale starts 10:00 am 
* *
TICKETS MAY BE CHARGED BY PHONE ALSO AT 10:00AM THRU TICKET MASTER--CALL 1-800-284-3030 


Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 The Observer page 23 




7:30 p.m. to 1 :00 a.m. Chinese Moon Festival, Wilson Commons. Tickets available at the Graduate Student Union office, 3rd floor LaFortune Student Center. 
6:30 p.m. Campus Bible Fellowship, at the Campus House on 19525 Pendle Road off Juniper Road. Topic is "The Jew and God's Promise". Call 277-8471 for rides or information. 
12:15 p.m. Anti-Apartheid Network weekly vigil, Admin­istration Building steps. Discussion of the current sit­uation in South Africa. Saturday 
9:30 a.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Multi-Purpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. 
12:20 p.m. Football, Notre Dame vs. Purdue 
Sunday 
3 p.m. ISO Movie Night, ISO Lounge. 
8:00p.m. Year of Cultural Diversity Christian Business Values in an Intercultural Environment: A Conference. Center for Continuing Education. 
8:00 to 8:30 p.m. "Ideas and Issues" featuring an inter­view with Representative Dan Coats, WSND-FM. Call 283-7342 with questions. 
~DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Kielbasa on Diamond Jim Batter Fried Perch Fettucini Alfredo Meatloaf 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Tacos Batter Fried Perch Monterey Bake Deli Bar 
• 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Wilson's 51 Place thrush 53 Yoko
I Alaskan city 29 Look up to 54 River, site of 6 Olive or plum 31 Disburses Victoria Falls 

II Where 56 33 "The stag at 56 "TheAcross ruled -...":Scott Magnificent"13 Great violinist 

34 Keats 58 Flexible 15 Spotted cats 
specialty 59 Of the great 16 Operative 35 Promenades beyond 17-.Bias 38 Makes piquant 60 Ramp's cousin 18 Sinful 41 Emulsion 61 Ancient 20 Exclamations 42 Three-way joint ambulatories 
21 -Bator 44 Flings 23 Spiteful 46 Grooves DOWN 24 Proofer's word 47 Parts of shoes 
I Italia's big 25 Yearned 49 E.r.a., e.g. 
island 27 Nittany Lions' 50 Gold, in 2 Where the
Genova

in st. Shannon flows 3-Aviv 4 Small
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
protuberance 5 Victim of Cortes 6 Reginald of oldfilms 7 Quarrel's result 12 Getaway 32 Daddy 41 Congealed
8 Controversial 13 Lacuna 35 Mice, men, 43 Tall bird 
sighting 45 Backless seat ·
14 Pungent etc.
9 Published 4 7 Erstwhile
19 Pennies: Abbr. 36 Kind of 
illegally caliphate
restaurant
22 Bete noire's 

I 0 Durer and minister
relative 37 Fixed
Rembrandt, 48 Layovers
24 Five Nations 38 Calyx parts
e.g. 51 Egyptian king 
members

II What 39 Baltic state 52 Part of Q.E.D. eyeglasses do 26 Took a plunge 40 Divisions for 55 Youth org. in steam 28 Early Sanskrit Howard 57 Where Ike rooms 30 Defunct car Nemerov commanded 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



"Good heavens, Bernie! We've got company! ... And you're never going to catch that stupid squirrel anyway!" 
-

------------------------~--=-------------------------------------------------------------·-·-----------------,=-w•-•-u-·-~~-H-~A-~~ 
• 
page 24 Weekend Edition, September 23-25, 1988 [ 
Kern makes ·mark in starting lineup 
Irish soccer plays two at Krause 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Just six games into the 1988 season, Notre Dame men's soc­cer coach Dennis Grace made a decision which has turned some heads. 
Facing a testing, two game home-stand weekend, Grace has inserted a freshman into his starting line-up, but the co­ach isn't complaining of injury problems or lack of depth. 
Instead, he is touting. talent, like that of his gifted freshman mid-fielder, Mitch Kern. 
Kern impressed in early season practices, saw key playing time in the Irish's first six (5-0-1) games, and finally earned his first collegiate start in last Sunday's 5-1 victory over Dayton. 

"Mitch has been playing so well that he forced me to make the line-up change," said Grace. "He's tough --mentally and physically --an excellent all-around player." 
Kern and his teammates will have to be tough this weekend, as they look to extend their un­beaten string to nine games, hosting two teams which they should beat. That forecast, however, is what Grace is wary of. 
The Irish have finally ar­rived on the Soccer America Top-20, placing 18th, and an ISAA (Coaches' Poll) ranking may not be far behind. Notre Dame, however, must continue its winning ways. 
Moose Krause Stadium will 
see SOCCER, page 16 
The Observer I Rob Regovich

Freshman Mitch Kern takes a shot on goalie (or earning a spot In a talented Notre Dame soccer
Mets win NL East 
is It a shot on goalie) In an Irish victory over lineup.
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --The New York Mets won their second National League East championship in three years Thursday night as Ron Darling pitched a six­hitter and beat the Philadel­phia Phillies 3-1. 
It was the fourth division crown in the Mets' history and they clinched it going away. The Mets won their eighth straight, 13th in 14 games and for the 23rd time in their last 28. 
A boisterous crowd of 45,274 packed Shea Stadium and were riding on every pitch as the 

Mets drove toward their pen­Dayton this season. Kern has wasted not time In nant. The Mets took the lead 2-1 in the sixth with a big assist from 
Irish try to halt three-match skid 
starter Don Carman, 10-13. 
Darryl Strawberry led off with a walk and moved to third on Kevin McReynolds' single to left-center field. With Gary Carter batting, Carman threw a wild pitch high and outside and Strawberry trotted home with the go-ahead run. 
The Mets added a run in the seventh when Mookie Wilson scored from second on McReynolds' RBI infield single. 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team dropped its record to 4-5 Wednesday night after losing in four games, 13-15, 15-11, 11-15 and 7-15, to Purdue. 
The Boilermakers, now 5-5, have a 9:.0 record against the Irish and continued to dominate the series with the help of junior middle blocker Debbie McDonald who recorded a match-high 23 digs and 20 kills for an impressive .581 hitting percentage. 
The Irish tried to counter with an attack of their own, but a breakdown in the team's block­ing allowed the Boilermakers to win despite their own sporadic play. 
"Our blocking stats went way down," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "We were not playing aggressively and we were not getting the blocks over the net, so it came down to our team making more errors than they did. The team beat itself more than (Purdue) did." 
But senior right side hitter Maureen Shea played well, tallying 14 kills and 13 digs for the Irish and junior outside hitter Kathy Cunnin­gham followed close behind statistically with 13 kills and 10 digs. 
see IRISH, page 18 

Boycott sanity at these Olympic Games 
A major scheduling error has college students find a seat on the bus, and showed up late for had everything straightened out and a few days all over the country going to school while the his opening match. Even when the driver shut passed without a major controversy, along came greatest sporting event in the world is taking the door on him, U.S. medal hopeful Anthony Wednesday night. Not counting snipers in previ­place. Hembrick thought he had plenty of time to get ous games, what took place Wednesday night at 
Notre Dame students should step forward and to the gymnasium for his bout. As it turns out, the gymnastics and boxing venues has to rank be leaders in a national boycott of homework Hembrick and the American boxing coaches mis­among the zaniest happenings in Olympic his­during the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South read the schedule, thinking the fight was much tory. Korea. So what if it's not summer anymore, and later. A Korean boxer lost his bout on points, thanks so what if the United States is trailing in the 
in part to two points he lost for head-butting, an medal count. Marty offense he was warned about four times. When 
You've got to check out some of the wacky the decision was announced, his coaches and a things going on over there. Strasen group of Korean boxing officials stormed the ring It doesn't matter if you're not a sports fan. The and punched the New Zealand referee. only prerequisite is a strong sense of humor, be­It took more than a minute for security guards 
Sports Editor
cause the Olympics are turning into a comedy to enter the ring, while people were hurlingbetter than any Thursday night sit-com. chairs and water bottles at the referee. It took What's funny, in a slightly warped sense of the Hembrick showed up four minutes late, and 20 guards to get the injured official to the dressing word, is the chaos in South Korea these days. was counted out of the Olympics before he even room. Some of the results aren't funny at all. stepped into the ring. 
see MAYHEM, page 19
First, an American boxer claimed he could not But just when you thought the Olympic officials 
--·------------l· 
r -----.--.------.... ­
~-.--~ 
A• ­

--o>< •• ..--••·-~-·-•-• ··'"'" ~:=-~·~·~-~· ·:.~:==.=7"~~,.7~1??'1

I 1st down, a season to go I l:l.'r
To subscribe now : please send $35 for 
Keep informed about the Notre Dame tootbaU and 
the entire school 

basketball teams. students. faculty, .and the changing 
Year or $20 for one 
.campus. WhUe you are away, Jet The Obser-~er bring 
semester to: f' 
r

-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's home tt> yoo.. ·The Observer $taft of mot-e than 250 SWdents vnna continue to <XJver 
The Observer 

an of the Notre Dame and Saittt Marya news flifiPJ day. 
P.O. Box Q

-Subscribe now and you11 be sure to stay imotmed 
Notre Dame, IN

dUring No1re Dame's drive to the nadonai d1ampionsl1fp 
46556 

and through FIIIWMalloy's second,_as ~fdent. . 
....-_.­
• t f I I
t, • • 






