
Typical South Bend
IACCENT: The Soviet Union Mostly sunny and very cool today. High in the lower 40s. 
Clear and very cool tonight 
Low in the middle to upper
IVIEWPOINT: GSU and the status quo 
20s. 


Jim Buckley, general manager for central operations for Apple Computer, Inc., presents Monk Malloy with a Steuben Glass apple and a 
Apple donates $1 /2M for Macs 
By MATT GALLAGHER Senior Staff Reporter 
Apple Computer, Inc. pre­sented a $450,000 grant to Notre Dame Wednesday for the pur­pose of placing Apple Macin­tosh computers in the offices of seventy percent of the Notre Dame faculty within three years. 
The grant was presented to University President Father Edward Malloy at a ceremony formally opening the new stu­dent computer laboratory in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. The grant was presented by James Buckley, vice president and general manager of central operations for Apple Computer, Inc. 
"What's being done here at Notre Dame, with the faculty work stations, the labs for the students ... I think that Notre Dame is at the leading edge of what's being done with com­puters in the United States," Buckley said. 
"We're really excited here about the opportunity we have to implement our $18 million computer plan, to provide accesss to computing of the highest quality to students and faculty, to staff and adminis­tration," Malloy said. 
Bill Keegan, regional manager of public relations for Apple, said Notre Dame and Apple have been working to­gether since 1984, when Notre Dame, along with several other 
see APPLE, page 4 

Airlines follow Continental, cut discount airfares 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-At least one major U.S. airline decided Wednesday to follow in part Continental Airlines' move to boost most discount fares used by the majority of vacation travelers. Several other large carriers considered whether to boost discount fares, too. 
Competitors of Continental, a subsidiary of Texas Air Corp., were expected to follow suit eventually. 
"I would be surprised if they didn't," said Helane Becker, an airline analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. 
Spokesmen for United Air­lines and Delta Air Lines said that the carriers were studying Continental's move and consid­ering whether to follow it. 
Northwest Airlines partially followed the action, changing around 30,000 MaxSaver fares between different cities, said Northwest spokesman Red Tyler in Eagan, Minn. The Con­tinental changes, he said, in­volve more than 100,000 such fares. 
"We continue to review the others," Tyler said. "There is still indecision in the industry.'' 
Estonian parliament declares sovereignty 
Associated Press 
TALLINN, U.S.S.R.-The Es­tonian parliament on Wednes­day declared the tiny Baltic republic "sovereign" with the right to veto Soviet laws. 
Before the vote, deputies from the Communist Party and government of Estonia held a debate in which they detailed the republic's need to control land, factories and laws, saying centralized control from Moscow had been ruinous for both the economy and envi­ronment. 
The vote on the "declaration of sovereignty" was 258-1, with five abstentions. It came after a vote on related amendments to the Estonian constitution that passed 254-7. 
The amendments include one declaring that Soviet laws will take effect in Estonia "upon their registration by the Presidium of the Supreme So­viet of the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic in a way reg­ulated by it." That somewhat vague wording was apparently the result of a last-minute com­promise. 
The other four amendments add human and civil rights guarantees, claim the land and natural resources of the republic as the property of Es­tonia rather than of the "state," and guarantee the right to hold private property. be negotiated with Moscow to "determine the further status of Estonia in the composition of the Soviet Union." 
The passage of such measures by a government body is an unprecedented act of defiance toward central aut­horities in a country still feeling its way through Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev's policy of "glasnost" or open­ness. 
Houston-based Continental notified travel agents on Tues­day night and Wednesday that it would revamp its MaxSaver program to base fares on the length of a flight. Competition on individual routes, not mileage, had determined the fares in the past. 
Under the new formula, scheduled to take effect Nov. 23, MaxSaver fares for longer flights generally would be raised while those for shorter hauls would mostly be reduced. 
The changes appear to have the effect of raising roughly two-thirds of Continental's MaxSaver fares and cutting the remaining third or so. They fol­low by a few days plans in­itiated by Continental and matched by other major air­lines to drop another category of discount air fares-the "junk fares" available four to seven days before a flight that are used mainly by business travelers. 
Like Continental's, most of Northwest's fare changes were increases, Tyler said. Northwest so far has only matched Continental in the markets where the two airlines compete directly, he said; in other markets, Northwest will wait to see whether the other carriers follow Continental's lead. 
The hikes in both advance­purchase MaxSavers and last­minute junk fares reflect the recent trend toward higher air fares propelled by increasing passenger traffic. 
"Consumers definitely are paying higher prices," said Andrew Geller, an airline analyst at Provident National Bank in Philadelphia. 
Airline fares are up an average 8 percent from the same point in 1987, he noted. 


Malloy looks towards future in St. Edward's Hall Forum 
By NATASHA WILSON Senior Staff Reporter 
University President Ed­ward Malloy shared his thoughts and insights into the future of Notre Dame during last night's St. Ed­ward's Hall Forum. 
"One of the great chal­lenges we face is how to preserve the quality of teaching at the same time we enhance the infrastruc­ture of support for education in general," Malloy said. 
The university, he said, is encouraging professors to excel in teaching, research and publication and service and trying to recruit more quality professors. 
As recommended by the recent university task force on teaching, the administra­tion is trying to identify the departments which warrant an increase in professors, the president said. 
Over the last five years Notre Dame has added 100 faculty members to the overall faculty without in­creasing the size of the stu­dent body in an attempt to reduce the teaching load of faculty in certain depart­ments. The professors would thus have more opportunity for research, publication and sabbatical time, Malloy claimed. 
In an effort to diversify the faculty the university has tried to recruit more minorities and females, he added. 
Malloy cited the improve­ment of the computerization on campus as another priority of the administra­tion. 
"We have a $18 million plan of which will include computerizations, resources for the faculty, a significant improvement in the local capacity of the mainframe computer." 
"We've also tried to con­centrate on our resources in the library. We've had to build up, which is a very ex­pensive proposition, the periodicals and books in given areas," said the uni­versity president. "Anot­her area we are trying to work on is facilities and the laboratory space." The ad­dition to Nieuwland Science Hall, he contends, will sig­nificantly improve class­room lab space for the physics classes. 
"We hope to be able within two years to break ground for a new classroom facility (in the Green Field area) if 
see FORUM, page 6 

page 2 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. bishops rejected a draft Vatican document Wednesday that questioned the authority of conferences such theNational Conference of Catholic Bishops. Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago said of the Vatican draft, "We think the document is so flawed that the Holy See should start over." Pope John Paul II has praised the American bishops on controversial efforts such as their national pastoral letters on nuclear weapons and treat­ment of the poor. But Vatican officials, noting the rising prominence of national bishops conferences, have declared that such organizations are not part of the Church's traditional hierarchy. The Vatican has asked all national bishops' conferences to respond to its draft docu­ment on their role in the Church and no final version is expected for months or even years. --The Observer 

OF INTEREST 
Siegfried Academic Night presents "Children of Apartheid," a 45 minute documentary of the South African Struggle, at 7:30p.m. in the TV lounge. Professor Peter Walshe, Director of African Studies, will offer a discussion following the video. -The Observer 
Ballroom Competition Dancers: Practice will be 
held Friday in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Gym at 
3 p.m. Women should arrive at 2 p.m. -The Observer 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship sponsors an interdenominational Bible Study tonight at 7 p.m. in 317 Lewis Hall. -The Observer 
Democratic Socialists of America and College Democrats sponsor a Democratic forum tonight at 7 p.m. in the CSC. This forum will discuss a new direction for the Democratic party. -The Observer 
Beta Alpha Psi presents Jack Caulfield of Chase Manhattan Bank's Controllers Department, speaking on "Ethics: In the Changing Financial World," at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. All are invited. -The Observer 
J.J. Murphy, visiting filmmaker, will be at the Snite Museum tonight at 7 p.m. for the showing of his film "Frame of Mind," a 1985 entry in the Florence Film Fes­tival. He will be on hand afterward to discuss the film and answer questions. -The Observer 
Women United for Peace and Justice will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the CSC. All are invited to attend. -The Ob­server 
Phone Books for Off-Campus students can be picked up in the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune. -The Observer 
A Ceramics Workshop by Eva Kwong and Kirk Mangus will take place Friday, Nov. 18, at 9:30p.m. in Room 152 Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. Call the SMC Art Department at 284-4631 for more information. -The Obser­ver 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
-------.L-=Y=-~ --·­


--Ih-e-Obse.~~r-­
Design Editor .. . Annette Rowland Design Assistant .......... Janice O'Leary 
.. .. ...... _ ........ Chris Labaree Typesetters .. _. Bernard Brenninkmeyer ......................................Andrew Schlidt News Editor .. _ . . .... Sara Marley Copy Editor ..................... Paul Jackson Sports Copy Editor.. _.. _--~ Pete Skiko Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Ann Hebennazi Viewpoint Layo"t -------------Laura Manzi Accent Editor __ ........ Trisha Chambers Accent Copy Editor __ Michelle Berninger Accent Designer .... __ .. __ .... Mike Conway Typist .. . . .. . Will Zamer 
............................ Diane Bradley ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor .. .. .. Maura Reidy Photographer ............ ........ Erin Cusack 
'he o..n. (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday cxoepc durina exam and vacation periods. Tk ~... is published by the studenu of the University of Notre Damc and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S..O per year (S2!l per IICIIIester) by writina'lk ~.... P.O. Bo• Q, Notre Dame, IodiaJia 46556. 
Tk ~is a member of Tk Mlodll_. "'-· All reproduction riahU are racrved. 
Thursday, November 17, 1988
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Darts: the ultimate game for the couch potato 

I fell in love the other day. Not with a person, not with a pet or a city or a place. I fell in love with the greatest game ever created: darts. 
It began one foggy, rainy night over Fall Break. A friend and I were v,isiting the University of Illinois, in Champaign. We dashed into a local watering hole to get out of the storm. As we passed by the gentleman at the door who welcomed us, we came upon the sight of that round piece of corkboard that would change our lives. We felt drawn toward it, as if it were a part of our destiny. 
Darts offers all of the thrills of a real sport. The competition can be intense, with the small, lethal projectiles flying through the air at tremendous speeds. The danger of injury is just as great as that involved in more glamorous sports, such as ski jumping and auto racing. Since the playing field is usually the back room of a bar, the danger of an innocent bystander wandering into the field of fire is great. The thrower must also contend with the very real possibility of a strained arm or a tired wrist. 
The skills of the players are amazing. A good "darter" has to contend with many outside influences which might potentially prove fatal to his game. Wind, humidity and a myriad of other natural factors all must be accounted for before the moment of release. 
Other, man-made hazzards also affect the throw. Primary among these is the alcoholic haze in which most dart players find themselves, but one must also account for the slippery floor of the bar, cigarette smoke stinging the eyes and popcorn kernels in your teeth throwing one's balance off that little bit which might make all the difference in the world. 
But don't let that scare you. Darts is the ultimate lazy-man's game. Think about it for a second. The only possible exertions involved are throwing a dart and putting down the beer which is most likely in your hand between throws. 
The only flaw in the game, and one which I believe must soon be rectified if I am to continue on my quest for the National Darts Championship, is the fact that someone must pull the darts out of the board. This unfortunate part of the game involves some poor soul, already exhausted from having thrown three darts, walking all the way over to the dart board (at least 8 feet away!) and performing the Herculean task of removing the darts from the board. 
Darts is by no means a simple game. Indeed, there are many complex varieties of the game, enough to satisfy the most discriminating of garners. The basic variation is plain, simple darts, with the individual players trying to score the most points. 
Matt Gallagher 
Assistant News Editor 

Other versions of the basic game include 301 (counting down from 301 to zero; you must reach zero exactly to win), baseball (different areas represent base hits, doubles, triples, homers, etc.), and a bunch of other games which are far too complicated for me to understand. 
The computer revolution has hit the game of darts full force, and I for one believe this is a change for the better. Electronic dart boards are springing up across the nation. These boards, replacing the common corkboard ones, have two tremendous advantages, both of which the couch potatos amongst us respect and appreciate. 
First, it is now possible to throw a dart and score points without the dart sticking into the dartboard (I guess there is some computer sensor which thinks the dart stuck). This not only allows one to score points on a weak throw, but also allows a much easier dart-retrieval process, as the darts which don't stick invariably wind up right in front of your feet after bouncing off the board. 
The second revolutionary bit of progress the electronic dart board has brought about involves the entire scorekeeping process. It is no longer necessary that a player be able to add and subtract in order to play. Indeed, I believe that the whole mathematical aspect of the game scared many people away. Now that this educational impediment has been removed, I anticipate a wave of dart-hysteria sweeping the nation. 

nGeneral Has Oetermin~~. 


--....--------­
a e 3
Thursday, November 17, 1988 The Observer 
~ ~------------~-------------~--~---~ 
Economic 'corrosion' feared despite shrinking trade deficit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The U.S. trade deficit narrowed by al­most 15 percent to $10.5 billion in September, the government said Wednesday, but not enough to prevent a new as­sault on the dollar over worries about what the head of the Federal Reserve called a "dan­gerous corrosion" of the Amer­ican economy. 
Exports rose by $700 million 
to a record high $28.2 billion, 
the Commerce Department 
said. Imports declined by 2.5 
percent or $1.1 billion to $38.7 
billion from a record high in 
August. The $10.5 billion trade 
gap for September was down 
Governer-elect Bayh looks to take action in ending House deadlock 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Demo­cratic Gov.-elect Evan Bayh, urging leaders of the divided Indiana House to compromise, said Wednesday night he would try to break a deadlock if the leaders' negotiations fail. 
"I think they're still in negotiations. I've urged them to reach a compromise on their own," Bayh said at a Statehouse news conference. 
"If we reach the organization 
day and state government is in 
danger of becoming dead­
locked.. .I will have to give 
serious thought to taking some 
MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an informal reception to discuss two-yearjob opportunities for 1989 graduates as 
Financial Analysts 
•
Ill 

Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 17, 1988 7:00 p.m.-9:00p.m. Alumni Room Morris Inn 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan-Benazir Bhutto claimed vic­tory Thursday after election returns showed her populist party trouncing the opposition in Pakistan's first open elec­tions in more than a decade. 
With 103 of 205 districts reporting, the Ms. Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party had 52 seats in the National Assembly compared with 21 for its main rival, the right-wing Islamic Democratic Alliance. 
The nine-party alliance in­
cludes loyalists of President 
Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, the 
military president who died in 
a plane crash three months 
ago. Another 30 seats in the as­
sembly went to independents 
and minor parties. 

Ms. Bhutto, as leader of the 
victorious party, would be the 

MAY, 1989 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 
IN PREPARATION FOR THE 

r 

CPA EXAMINATION 
en 

-1 INFORMATION MEETING§
m 

THURSDAY DECEMBER 1,1988 ~ 7:00P.M:· 
""0 :xJ 

ROOM 122 ­
0

HAYES-HEALY CENTER 
m

NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
en 

COUEGE OF BUSINESS 
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
...,) 

first woman to lead this Islamic nation. 
"The victory the PPP achieved is because of the self­less sacrifices, the struggle by people of the PPP," Ms. Bhutto said at a news conference after a rally of 8,000 people on the lawn of her family home in the southern city of Larkana. 
The crowd chanted "Long Live Benazir!" and "Benazir, prime minister!'' 
Former Prime Minister Mohammad Khan Junejo, one of Bhutto's main rivals from the Islamic Alliance, conceded defeat late Wednesday in his bid for an assembly seat. 
"We're on the losing side," 
he said of his defeat by a Pakis­
tan People's Party candidate in 
his hometown of Sindhri. He 
said the Bhutto party had 
"succeeded very well." 

by $1.8 billion from the revised August trade deficit figure of $12.3 billion, a drop of about 
14.6 percent. 
But neither change was big enough to stem a new selling wave of dollars by traders worried about inflation from an overheating economy and skeptical of President-elect George Bush's promise to reduce the federal budget def­icit through a "flexible freeze" without any tax increases. 
The dollar, resuming its downward path of last week, fell about half a percent against the Japanese yen and 1 percent against the West German mark on Wednesday despite what currency traders said was in­tervention by the Fed to prop it up through massive pur­chases of dollars using yen. 
In the past month, the dollar has fallen nearly 9 percent in value against the yen and about 7 percent against the mark, halted only by a brief respite Monday when Bush and Trea­sury Secretary Nicholas Brady promised that the new admin­istration would not scrap a two­year effort to maintain its stability. 
Stock prices, in turn, resumed their downward turn, with the Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks falling 38.59 points. 
action," he said. 
However, Bayh said he's not sure what action he could legally take. His lawyers are researching that, he said. 
The 100-member House is evenly divided between the two political parties for the first time in history. Both the Re­publican and Democratic caucuses have nominated their own candidates for speaker, the chamber's most powerful position. 
Bayh, in his role as secretary of state, will call the House into session for its organization day next Tuesday and preside over the election of the speaker. 
House Democratic leader Michael Phillips, D-Boonville, has predicted he will be elected. Rep. Paul Man­nweiler, the Indianapolis Re­publican who was the speaker in the last session, claims he has 50 solid votes in his caucus. 
Bayh said he has consulted with both leaders, urging them to reach an accord by organi­zation day. 
Mannweiler has suggested a power-sharing arrangement that would equally divide com­mittee chairmanships and give each party numerical equality on each committee. 
~ge 4 The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1988 

10 tornadoes hit Arkansas, killing 6 
Associated Press 

SCOTT, Ark.-National Guardsmen helped keep order Wednesday after up to 10 tor­nadoes churned through Arkansas, killing six people, damaging scores of homes and businesses and temporarily knocking out power to 16,000 customers. 
The twisters destroyed or damaged 240 homes and mobile homes and eight businesses, said Gary Talley, spokesman for the state Office of Emer­gency Services. No monetary estimate of the damage was available Wednesday. 
Seven counties were 
AP Photo-
Mile High snow storm declared disaster areas by Gov. Bill Clinton, who set aside 
Denver is hit with as much as five inches of snow snow from automobiles will become a more $350,000 in state emergency 
in the first snow storm of the season. Cleaning frequent sight as wintry weather rages on. funds. 
Apple 

continued from page 1 
major universities, became a charter member of the Apple University Consortium. 
Keegan said that Apple donated a number of "seed" Macintosh systems to Notre Dame several years ago. 
"The idea of this program is to, within three years, put an Apple Macintosh onto the desks of 80 percent of the 700-member faculty," Keegan said. 
Keegan said the $450,000 grant represented equipment 
which  would  be  distributed  
over the  rest  of  this  school  
year.  

"At the end of this year we will look and evaluate what we need to do" to complete the pro­gram, Buckley said. "Maybe 
more faculty investment, maybe more student invest­ment" would be necessary on Apple's part to complete the program, Buckley said. 
"We're hoping we can cap­ture the minds and hearts of the student of Notre Dame with the Apple Macintosh comput­er," Buckley added. 
Buckley said Apple was working with the University to increase the availability of Macintosh computers to stu­
dents on campus. 
STEAKS •
PRIMERIB . 
SEAFOOD ~~~use 
HRfSTNJRAJ'fT 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


Apple Computer is receiving no financial benefit from the grant, Buckley said. "We don't get any additional financial in­centive from donating these computers to a school versus giving them to a company," Buckley said. 
He added that, prior to the 1986 changes in the tax laws, Apple would have received a tax break from such a dona­tion. However, this is no longer the case. 
The other purpose of the cer­emony was the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new Macin­tosh laboratory in the base­ment of LaFortune. Malloy of­ficially opened the laboratory, which has been open for stu­dent use since Fall Break. 
"The opening of the LaFor­tune student cluster is our op­portunity to make computers more accessible to the student body," said Donald Spicer, as­sistant provost for University computing and director of the 
Office  of  University comput­ 
ing.  
The  cluster  contains  50  

Macintosh computers, Spicer noted. It is open from 8 a.m. to 1 a.m. Monday through Thursday, with shorter hours on weekends. 
The space currently occu­pied by the Macintosh labora­tory was formerly a t.v. room. Scott Cowdery, director of user 
Atleast49tornadoestouched
services, said the decision was 
down in Arkansas, Missouri,
made to turn this particular 
Kansas, Illinois and Iowa on 
space into a computer lab be­
Tuesday night. A seventh per­
cause of the low usage the t.v. 
son was killed in southwest 
room was experiencing. 
Missouri. The same storm
Cowdery noted that the cen­
system left three people dead 
ter is staffed by 23 students. 
"The lab has been running for the last two or three weeks. . .It has been practically full ever 
SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE 
since it opened," Cowdery said. 
for Impress 
Junior Parents Weekend '89 

is forming now! 
-Pick up applications in Student Activities Office (Lafortune) -Due Friday Nov. 18 5:00pm 

NOW! WE HAVE DELIVERY 
Call 277-7744 
Subway Sandwiches & Salads is now delivering to the Notre Dame campus. Delivery times are 5:00 p.m. until 12:00 midnight everyday of the week. Call today and try the "Fresh Alternative". 
~!I] ;12lttM 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
I~---------------,
·-.--. . ' 
I I I I I I I I I I
I I
Thirsty Thursday 
I Free 32 oz. soda ; I with any 24 inch sub order. 1 
I

I-I 1
DON'T FORGET 1OTH INNING SPECIAL .• I EVERYDAY AFTER 1OPM 7 INCH SUB, I 
I CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25 I 
II 271-0 SUB I -1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE 
I 

\ I 
~---------------' 
in road accidents in Colorado and was blamed for the electrocution death of a woman in Illinois. 
The National Weather Ser­vice said the storms were caused by a cold front colliding with warm, moist air. 
"We saw it coming, but there was nothing we could do," said Police Chief Darnell Scott of the central Arkansas town of Lonoke, where two people were killed and about 30 houses were reported heavily damaged. 
At the height of the storm, 16,000 customers of Arkansas Power & Light Co. lost power for different periods, said AP&L spokesman Jerol Gar­rison. By Wednesday morning, only about 1,000 customers still had no power, he said. 
About three dozen National Guardsmen were called out for several hours Wednesday to look for survivors and keep non-residents away from homes in Pulaski County. More guardsmen performed similar duties in Van Buren County. 
Thursday, November 17, 1988 
Daniels favored as successor to Quayle 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Mitch Daniels Jr., president of the Hudson Institute and a former aide to President Reagan and Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., is the leading candidate to fill Vice President-elect Dan Quayle's Senate seat, a report broadcast Wednesday said. 
WISH-TV quoted a source close to Gov. Robert Orr as saying that if Daniels wants the seat, he has the support neces­sary to get it. 
Orr, a Republican like Quayle and Lugar, intends to make the appointment before he leaves office at the end of the year and is replaced by Democrat Evan Bayh. Quayle, elected vice president as George Bush's running mate, has said he will resign the seat in time for Orr to fill the seat. 
Orr press secretary Dollyne Pettingill said Daniell? is one of many people who have been mentioned for the job. 
ITlffil})[p)J 
~D~ 

illDillTirnffiffi)J [[)ffi\!11] 
Prepare to do battle tonight! 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President­elect George Bush asked aides to sign a pledge designed to prevent leaks and conflicts of interest Wednesday and, leaders of his transition team refused to talk about the re­ported selection of Washington outsider John Sununu as White House chief of staff. 
As the capital buzzed about the choice of Sununu, the feisty, conservative governor of New Hampshire, Bush spent the day in separate meetings with British Prime Minister Mar-
The Educated Choice 
for Faculty and Full,Time Staff... 
... 1ST SOURCE BANK'S EASY BANKING CLUB! 
1st Source Bank has the best and most unique direct deposit payroll program available. With our Easy Banking Club you get: 
IMMEDIATE VALUE 

• Free interest bearing checking account (with 200 free checks) or a Free savings account. 
EVERYDAY VALUE 

• 
Free Resource Card for easy available access to your money. 

• 
The safety and convenience of direct deposit of your paycheck. 


FUTURE VALUE 
• 

1h% discount on consumer loans. 
• 
Free appraisals on approved mortgages or home equity lines. 

• 
Free first trade at our 1st Class Brokerage Services ($35 maximum). 

• 
50% discount for the first year on safe deposit boxes. 

• 
Free Travelers checks. 



For more information call any 1st Source Banking Center. 
garet Thatcher and Soviet dis­sident Andrei Sakharov. Bush will meet with Thatcher again over breakfast Thursday. 
The vice president was mum about filling the chief of staff's job, saying "no final decisions" had been made. 
Sources close to Bush said, however, he would name Sununu to the post. Next to the president, the chief of staff is the most powerful person in the White House with influence over access to the Oval Office, the agenda, scheduling and other matters. 
The other contender for the 

The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 
If interested, submit a one page personal statement to Chris Murphy at The Observer office by 3:00pm, Monday, November 21. 

t~~~~~;e~!t~ind 
bv J.J. Murphy
presented at the Flnr.,,..,....., Film Festival (Florence, ltaly-1985) 
•haH chiller and haH parody, part tongue 
in cheek and part heart in the mouth. " 
-1loo c.,.T-. 

job was Craig Fuller, who has been Bush's vice presidential chief of staff for four years. 
Sununu, who returned to New Hampshire after a Monday night meeting with Bush, said, "We've had discus­sions...about that job (chief of staff) in particular." 
At a news conference in Con­cord, Sununu said, "A request isn't a formal request until the 
tall thin guy (Bush) sings. And the tall thin guy hasn't sung publicly, and therefore I'm not going to comment on this in any way at all. 

~source
-.Bank 
Member F. D. I.C. Your partners hom tha first 
Visiting Filmaker J.J. Murphy will be present at the screening of Frame of Mind to discuss his film and answer questions. Mr. Murphy's films have been shown at such prestigious festivals as the New York Film Festival and 
Edinburgh Film Festival. Admission $2.00. Film Series asses will be honored. Am'iQRKS 


President Reagan and British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher review an honor guard during 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
we get the resources for it." The new facility, Malloy said, would help alleviate some of the lack of class space. 
The university has already broken ground for Hesburgh Center for International Studies and will begin con­struction on a band practice facility and a new ROTC build­ing in the near future. 
Malloy also addressed the trends in the majors of stu­dents. 
The enrollment in the College of Arts and Letters, he said, has been increasing over the past few years because of the addi­tion of the Arts and Letters Pro­gram for Administrators and the computer science pro­grams. 
While the Colleges of Busi­ness and Engineering have had a stable population, the num­ber of students in the College of Science continues to decrease. The university wants to attract more students into science majors. 
"The biggest change that I foresee in academics separate from the component parts of the undergraduate education will be the concentration at the graduate level," Malloy said. 

The improvements in the graduate school, he said, will include a better quality of stu­dents and a more attractive at­mosphere in which graduate students can live and learn. 
"As we move forward the quality of the graduate school will enhance the reputation of the undergraduate program." 
At the requests of students at 
the  forum,  Malloy discussed  
the  timely  issue  of  student  
housing.  

"It has been the commitment of the university to provide housing all the undergraduate students who want to live on campus. We have had no lot­tery for the last 10 years or more and have no intention of having a lottery ·unless no one moves off campus," he assured his listeners. 
"The reaction to the percep­tion that people were going to be forced off campus shows that there is something positive about the dorm experience that people would like to preserve." 
The office of student residences i.s presently con­centrating on improving graduate housing, Malloy said. 
"We are exploring now ways to finance the construction of graduate housing (on-campus) as quickly as possible." 
The university will also con­tinue the renovation of under­graduate residence halls each summer, he added. 
Malloy also gave his impres­sions of the general character of the university and its stu­dents and how it might change in the future. 
''This is the Year of Cultural Diversity and I feel very good about what we've been able to do at diversifying the student body." The university presi­dent said he hopes next year's theme of the Year of the Fam­ily will be equally successful. 
The enrollment of under­graduate students will prob­ably remain around 7500 stu­dents, with an increased percentage of females, Malloy said. 
~~ ~ 
Vin!fl .Masters 
OJ S.<Viu 

'D-9'....... "Ul~bk. 
A00N£Y WIGGIH5 BR.&O B4NACKA ROONEY KLOCI<OW 
IC6161•1..a3al 1!6111)47..:~ 1218)2!iol-$0oll 
wn•llll.lllllllll·lll·llllllllllll''" :::---..•••1111111111111111.111.11111.1111.1111.11111 
=-----~rkn =----­
-= = £ = 
~~ 
a====a ~=~=~= 
.lll-11111111.111.111.1111111111111111111... ···••lllllllllllllllllll·lll·llll.llll.llllilllll 
This we;~: on your dancing shoes beca~~~e;~i~~~se i~a:;~ou;!!D.J.'s ~ 
=== = 
Thursday's hours: 10-1 
Thursday, November 17, 1988 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, NOV. 14 
H:30 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reponed the theft of a lamp and a VC"R from her unlocked car while it was parked in the Bookstore Lot. The theft occurred sometime between R:OO a.m. and 3:00 p.m.on I 1/12. Her loss is estimated at $230.00. 
10:20 a.m. Notre Dame Security recovered a backpack belonging to an Alumni Hall resident. The student stated that his backpack had been stolen from the lobby of the South Dining Hall at approximately 12:30 p.m.on 11/10. Two books were not recovered. and their replacement value is estimated to be $90.00. 
TUESDAY, NOV. 15 
I 2:45 p.m. A resident of Pa,querilla East rep1med theft of her radar detector from 
Crime of the Week 
The Crime of the Week is the theft of bookbags containing hundreds of dollars of books from the South Dining Hall. 
Security reports that there have been four reports of thefts during September and nine thefts so far in November. 
her vehicle while it was parked in the D-2 Lot sometime between 11/12 and 11/15. 
4: I 5 p.m. A re,ident of Holy Cross Hall reported the theft of his backpack and contents from the lobby of the South Dining Hall sometime between II :!K)a.m. and I :30 
p.m. His loss is estimated at $29.XO. 

WEDNESDAY, NOV.l6 
10:30 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of her purse from her unlocked car while it was parked in the South Dining Hall Lot. Her loss is estimated at $50.m. 
II :25 a.m. A Keenan Hall re,ident reported the theft of his student football ticket from his unlocked room sometime between 9:30 and IO:IKl p.m. on 11/15. His loss is estimated at $10.50. 
All but two of these thefts have oc­curred during the lunch hour. In each case the victim had his or her books in a bookbag on the shelves in the lobby of South Dining Hall. Victims have returned to find their bookbags gone. 
If you have any information about this or any crime at Notre Dame call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You won't have to give your name and you'll be eligible for a cash reward of up to $300. Help put a stop to this and other crimes at Notre Dame. 
Mickey Mouse turns 60, labelled 'Republican' 
Associated Press lican," said Roy Disney, who 
ought to know. 

WASHINGTON-Mickey No sooner had Walt Disney's Mouse celebrated his 60th nephew uttered the R-word birthday two days early Wed­than Michael Eisner, board nesday with balloons, a four­chairman of Disney's $3 billion tiered cake and a jazz band corporate empire, grabbed the party, where his tailless microphone and said, "No, he's friends disclosed he's a con­non-partisan." tented bachelor and a closet But the elephant was out of Republican. the bag, and Mickey didn't 
"I think he's been a Repub-deny it. 

hard way? If you need to get to O'Hare, count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. 
Call674·6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent.
=Friday and Saturday: 10-2 
a = 
United Limo 
; Hungry or thirsty? check out Ted's Hideaway 
We'll Get You There 
= then---you won't be disappointed! = IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 
.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111110111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
Thursday, November 17, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Former boatperson earns 7 degrees from MIT in 7 years, sets record 
Associated Press people, Nguyen, 26, has earned multiple degrees "to get the 
his seventh degree from the most out of my time at MIT and 
BOSTON-Tue Nguyen did Massachusetts Institute of out of my tuition." more than nibble from the tree Technology, a doctorate in nu­of knowledge, he made a feast clear engineering. The school "You're not likely to find an­of it. says it thinks that is a record other person like this very of­
Just nine years after arriving for MIT. ten,'' said nuclear engineering in this country with thousands Nguyen told the MIT public professor Sidney Yip, of other Vietnamese boat relations office that he earned Nguyen's doctoral adviser. 
Class 
continued from page 10 
HOOKEE!Yea you. The brain fry is almost ov~• ,,hen you have Bonnie to deal with.Avoid the rush-kill your roommate now. pills 
F.I.S.H. QUOTES FOAM FERRIS STATE 1.WE ARE SO HOT AND SO COOL! 2.TRACIE IS OUR LEADER 3. ET YOU CAN'T GET ON WIO THE APPL 4.THEME SONG,"UNDERCOVER ANGEL" 5.SARGE WE'RE AEADY,ANYTIME SARGE 6.YOU HAVE ONE MINUTE,59,58... 7.0H THAT'S COOL COACH,REAL COOL 8.THERE WILL BE NO STUDYING 9.HAVE WE LEFT JACKABOICES YET? 10.LADIES NIGHT OUT THIS FRIDAY 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY LIEB, LOVE, RACHEL. JULIE & ANN 
DEATH NOTICE SCOPELITIS, Chet Lamar, 2 weeks, of Morrissey, beloved fish of Geoff, loving grand nephew fish of Linda D.d1ed ABSOLUT LV from lack of oxygen ac­cording to ichthyologists.Burial at seitMonday ser­vices and wake are pnvate 
JFM, Buena Suerte con su vida (esp. el amor). Grac1as por todo. HASTA! 
SCAMPER 
N.D. may be # 1 but you are # 1 in my heart. 
Love, SNUGGLES 

SCAMPER HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE, SNUGGLES 
PITI CLUB BUS 

PITI CLUB BUS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE. Call Mike or Kevin at 3322--$60 AT 
···································· ........................ MIKE PAESE FOR FIESTA BOWL QUEEN I! MIKE PAESE FOR FIESTA BOWL QUEEN!! 
DESPARATE FOR RIDE TO NYC! WILL DO ANYTHING. CAN LEAVE 1V21 22 23. CALL DAN AT 1724 
KITTY CARRYALL 

& G.M. SCHMEN HEH you two!l Put a quarter in the magic bed to become New Guinea KANGAROOS on the trail of LUST!! That's worth a rapid fire GUH!!! 
FRANKLY I'M STUNNED! your pal DROOPY 
Live rock and roll BILLY THE 10 

Friday night at McCormick's (downtown next to Senor Kelly's) PARTY WITH THE ID !! 
You are our SUNSHINE, our only SUNSHINE!' Thanks for being such a SWELL MAMBA, 
Love Georgia & Musty 

WE DID GET THE WHITEY'S QUESTION RIGHT, EVEN IF YOUR SISTER HAD TO TELL ME WHAT COLOR YOUR EYES WERE AND I HAD NO CLUE WHEN YOUR B-DAY WAS. WELL I KNOW NOW AND I'LL NEVER FORGET IT, EVER!! 



HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY SARA!I ETERNALLY YOURS (HA), DAN ... 
l, 

.................. ····················· ······························ HEY PETE! WHY IS IT THAT CHICKS KEEP MIS­TAKING YOUR ROOM FOR THE BATHROOM? IT'S A CRUEL FORM OF PUNISHMENT IS'NT IT? 
........................................ If you're so FUNNY , Then why are you on your own lonight? And if you're so CLEVER , Why are you on your own tonight? And if you're so VERY ENTERTAINING , Why are you on your own tonight? And if you're so terribly GOOD LOOKING , Then why do you sleep ALONE tonight? Because tonight is just like any other night, That's why you're on your own TONIGHT . The Smiths dedication to all DOMERS The Observer I Erin Cusack
Monk see, Monk do 
........................................................................... 
TOM, HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAYI THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A GREAT BROTHER! I'LL MISS YOU NEXT YEAR! 
University President Monk Malloy, continuing to be an active member 
BUFFY 

of the Notre Dame community, speaks before a crowd at the St. Edward's Hall Forum. 

BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Any Type Home-made "You've tried the rest, now try the best" 
GRAND OPENING STARTS WEDNESDAY 
Free Pepsi with purchase (except with delivery) 

$1.00 off any size pizza 921 N. Eddy, Free Prizes South Bend 




"0 caJs
Presents: 
9uitar 
tnando!in harrnon·
ICa 
One of the greatest musical duos on the college circuit! Their sound ranges from ballads to rhythm and blues. They combine simple humor with tremendous musical talent to produce a show that SHOULD NOT BE MISSED!! 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
2:00 P.M. at Theodore's 


J 

....---------------------------------~-------­
Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, November 17, 1988 
Graduate students enjoy their anonymity 
In recent months, graduate students have written Viewpoint articles under the auspices of the Graduate Student Union Information Office. The opinion of the GSU, as suggested by these ar­ticles, is that graduate students are treated poorly by the University, and that major changes in University policy toward grads are needed. Some have bemoaned grad student "apathy." Recently, the GSU suggested that grad students try to become more like un­dergrads. I am a member of the Grad Club Board, as well as a former mem­ber of the Graduate Student council of the GSU, and I would like to present an alternative view, in favor of the status quo. 
Francis Deck 
guest column 
The fact is, that we as grad students are not treated all that badly by the University. There can be no doubt that we are treated differently than under­grads. Of this we should be eternally grateful. But to say that we are "second-class citizens" and such is hog­wash. 
Currently, the relationship between the grad student body and the Univer­sity can be summarized as follows. First, the University leaves the grad students alone. Second, the grad stu­dents leave the University alone. My personal attitude is that what the Uni­versity does in its spare time is none of my business. In general, the best thing the University can do for us is to stay out of our hair and give us some peace and quiet so that we can get our work done. Mter all, the greatest gift the University can give a graduate stu­dent is his ticket out of here. Of course, to make our stay at Notre Dame a little more enjoyable, the University might provide us with some social diversions, but it does this quite well by providing space for the Grad Club. 
Some grads have called for more "representation" at the University. I'm not sure exactly what that means. I have found that in the matters which concern me the most as a grad student, my department represents me quite well. For instance, my department sets my stipend level, and provides my re­search and office space. It is also my department which is responsible for that huge hole which is being dug out­side of LaFortune, which, when filled 
Doonesbury 
in with bricks and mortar, will give my 
research group even more space. There 
is practically nothing that any student 
organization can do for me with ten 
years of resolutions and meetings that 
my advisor or my department can't do 
with a single phone call. 
Some of the grads I have spoken to 
have told me that some departments 
do not show such consideration for their 
grad students. Many of these students 
have come from positions of respect 
and authority in the "real world," and 
feel that their departments treat them 
like children. Such failure to show 
proper deference to the qualifications 
of one's colleagues and subordinates is 
highly unprofessional, and would not be 
tolerated in a corporate setting. Unfor­
tunately, there is probably little that 
the University can do to correct this 
problem, since it arises from the per­
sonal attitudes of individual faculty 
members. 

A major gripe I hear about the Uni­versity is that it does not provide enough housing to grad students. However, it is hard to support the view that the University "owes" us more housing. It is a different situation for the undergrads, where the University must act in loco parentis (like a crazy mother). Also, keeping as many under­grads on-campus as possible builds good community relations. But most grad students prefer to live off-campus, and our needs are quite well satisfied by the community, with whom we have a very good relationship. In any event, even if we do "deserve" more housing, all of our begging and pleading won't make the University build anything for us until it's good and ready to. 
Some grad students complain that we are not welcome at undergrad social activities. I have driven through the Northeast neighborhood on Friday nights, and the sight makes me ill. Frankly, most grad students want no part whatsoever in under grad social ac­tivities. Many grads are married and some have kids. What need have we for SYRs? As for "intellectual" activities, most of us spend fourteen hours a day doing intellectual activities, and the last thing we want is more of the same after a hard day at work. The Grad Club, with its purely social atmosphere, is just what the doctor ordered. 
The University, so I am told, has quite a strict set of rules of conduct. Formally, these rules apply to grad stu­dents. However, the University gra­ciously does not push these rules on us. 
ANO YOU AC:­
HOW ABOUT 

0, WAI.t:¥N! 174/R JJ
50100{.. OJ5&MIJ.OF 50NG? IA/HJfT A leAK.Y 
A V10£00F 

JU/61./ NE5Tl&O IN
7Hl3 50KJOL­

501001..­Mt:/110/?.Y-' 
I [)(JNNO,
SON6"? 

7H8 PERFUMW /3050M
SONG? \ 
ZONK...
~~ 

OF I<NOIAI-'-......,....--...,.__ /,6068.'
I 
\
(( 

If we demand that the University treat us like under grads, they will. The result may be unbearable. As it stands, we are generally treated like staff or ad­junct faculty members. with a few ex­tra privileges, and a few privileges taken away. When we have minor gripes or problems, they are usually taken care of right away through our individual departments, or we take care of them ourselves. 
One should not get the impression that this is a minority viewpoint. The vast majority of grad students I have talked to agree with me on what I am saying here. Change is not always for the better. Perhaps our "apathy" is a good thing. It may be too late to turn back the clock, but I hope the Univer­sity's traditional "hands-off" policy towards its grad students will remain as long as I am here. As long as the University does as little as possible to impede my progress toward my doc­torate, I will be happy. 
Francis J. Deck is a graduate student in physics. 
P.O. Box Q
I 

More dorms needed, not fewer students 
Dear Editor: 
The Viewpoint column "Dorm quota system: yet another mistake" of Nov. 14 stated that "the Office of Admissions has consistently underestimated the matriculation rate for several years, resulting in an overabundance of fresh­men." In truth, we have underes­timated the matriculation rate for the past four years by a factor of 0.0038 which has resulted in an extra seven freshmen per year. This represents some respectable estimating on our part when one considers that the actual matriculation rate has varied 0.06 during those years, and actually declined 0.02 after last year's winning football season, quite the opposite of the author's implication elsewhere in the essay. In any event, the extra seven freshmen have not caused the housing dilemma. 
Until more campus housing is built or the off-campus housing situation im­proves, there will be a need for a policy regarding the assignment of freshmen to residence halls and written procedures to solve the problems created if too few upperclassmen choose to move off-campus. I am hope­ful that students and rectors will work constructively with the Office of Stu­dent Residences to create the best pos­sible policies and procedures for main­taining the residential character of Notre Dame while facing the reality of the growing desire for campus housing. 
Kevin M. Rooney l)irector of Admissions Nov. 16, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"Being a woman is a terri­bly difficult task since it consists principally in dealing with men." 
Everyone invited to Senior Block Party 
Dear Editor: 
Arriving as freshmen in South Bend from various parts of the world, the four years ahead of us looked like a long stretch of time. Now as seniors of Notre Dame we realize that our stay here has actually been very short. We have had four years to make our impact on Notre Dame, but we must soon leave with its influence stamped upon us and pass our privileges onto another fresh­men class. As a result of the transience of our stay at Notre Dame, students rarely make an effort to become a part of the larger community which sur­rounds the student body. Yet the mem­bers of this larger community remain here to greet the next group of incoming freshmen and aid the seniors in reach­ing commencement. 
A group of seniors have been working to put together the Senior Block Party, an annual event on the Friday before the final home football game of the season. The purpose of this gathering is to bring together members of the South Bend community with Notre Dame students in a friendly, fun-filled event. Our goal is to enjoy entertain­ment, drinks, and ethnic foods together with the larger community of Notre Dame and South Bend. Everyone is in­vited out to this year's Block Party at the Joyce ACC on Nov. 18 from 3 to 6 
p.m. Hope to see you there. Chris Lee Kathleen Maglicic Senior Block Party 
Committee '88 Nov. 15, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 

Joseph Conrad 
Editorial Board Operations Board
------. .1.-::::Y=-'-' ---·-­
-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-·­
Ed1tor-m-Ch1el Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John Oxnder 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managmg Ed1tor Chns Donnelly Adver11smg Des1gn Manager Molly K1llen News Ed1tor Reg1s Cocc1a Adver11smg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt News Ed1tor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Sh11ts 
The Observer IS the ondependent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty ot V1ewpomt Ed1tor Man Slaughter Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nl Maris College It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of Sports Edttor Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hard1man the administration of e1ther 1nslltul10n The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Ed1tor Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the maJonty of the Editonal Board Sa1nt Maris Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the" authors Column Photo Ed1tor M1chael Moran space IS available to all members of the community and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 
,----------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Accent 
page 9

Thursday, November 17, 1988 
Seeing the color through the gray 
Impressions of the Soviet Union 
THERESA LOOMIS Hemingway and Fitzgerald--but accent writer Faulkner seemed to be the biggest hit. Obviously, the government would 

After hearing the others' not find his work a threat. post-break stories about I didn't look at the book on Ameri­Germany's Oktoberfest can history, but I was told by those atmosphere of beer-toting who did that although it could not be 
frauleins, polka music, and labeled "untruthful," it was definitely cameraderie, and after seeing the slanted. tans of those who opted for the Earlier, I referred to our hotels as French beaches of Nice, I admit I "memorable." Indeed they were; was jealous ... but I still consider although they too were most often myself extremely fortunate to have fairly drab places. Since Intourist had They will trade any pin they have for we met could not have been made the lottery for the Soviet Union to do some quick shuffling to accom­just one piece. friendlier. Our 21-year-old tour guide, trip. modate us, I feel as though we saw a I cannot deny that the Soviet Natasha, became one of our best 

Only 18 of the approximately 40 of side of the country not all tourists are Union's overall atmosphere was one friends. She felt that many people of us who wanted to go had the opportu­purposely shown. of bleakness. However, I also cannot the older generation are so full of nity. With the recent surge of interest Our hotel food was predictable deny that bright spots did exist. party slogans that they don't know in travel to the USSR, the govern­after our first few meals. Sour dough Among these bright spots I include how to think for themselves. As a ment has set limits to control the in­bread, beets, tomatoes, hard-boiled the Moscow Circus in Gorky Park, tour guide, she had been trained to flux of tourists. eggs, and variations thereof appeared the sleeper train to Novgorod, that put in plugs for the Communist party. 
As our Aeroflot flight into repeatedly before us. Another city's lovely fall colors, Leningrad's Actually, only 19 million out of 286 Leningrad descended, the cloudy sky novelty--little square tubs with hooks amazing Hermitage museum, and the million Soviet citizens claim party on the wall for attaching accompany­horse we nicknamed Olga and for membership.The Soviet people also ing implements posed as showers. whom we smuggled eight sugar cubes The highlight of the trip for most of Without shower curtains, bathroom and three tomatoes from the Nov­us was the acquaintance of several
put up with conditions 
floors became great puddles-­gorod hotel. I also include my realiza­Novgorod residents. We were sup­which, by American disastrous for those late night trips to tion that complete freedom of religion posed to have met with students but the bathroom. Most memorable exists, although party members are met instead with young factory 
standards, would be 
(hardest to forget), our Novgorod discouraged from practicing. workers. At the arranged social gat­unbearable. hotel package included bedbugs. Moscow's Red Square is a powerful hering (sounds like Notre Dame, 
The Soviet people also put up with and intriguing setting at night. The huh?), they taught us a traditional gave the entire landscape the gray conditions which, by American stand­red of the flag with its hammer and dance. We had no choice but to and drab appearance I had always ards, would be unbearable. Their sickle makes a striking image flutter­reciprocate by teaching them the associated with the country. And stores (based on my Novgorod expe­ing against the dark immensity of the hoky poky. though, throughout the trip, I riences only) live up to their outward sky. The square, bordered by St. Obviously they were impressed. 
remained on the lookout for someth­appearances. All window displays Basil's cathedral, Lenin's tomb, A group of us met again the next ing that would radically alter this look as though they've been exactly evening and spent hours (the most 
stereotype , I never found it. the same for 30 years. Once inside, I Despite the stereotype I rewarding of the trip) discussing The country was gray ... and it was was reminded of a rummage sale. hold of a gray country, politics (glasnost, perestroika), reli­already cold. On the way to the first Products were of poor quality. Vari­gion (they were atheists), expecta­
of our "memorable" hotels, we ety barely existed. I have come away from tions, beliefs, and questions we had passed building after building of the Grocery stores weren't a pleasant for each other. At the end of the night 
the Soviet Union with a
identical concrete, unadorned archi­experience either: rusty cans, dusty we toasted to friends, took a few tecture used for apartments. In a city tins, cloudy jars, unappetizing chick­colorful sense of the group pictures, exchanged addresses, 
such as Leningrad, with a population ens. Babies wait outside. There's not walked back to our hotel through wet
people.

of 5.5 million, few people ever own a enough room in the stores to accom­fall leaves, and said our goodbyes. 
home. modate buggies. Lenin's museum, and Gum's depart­1 remember the first night in Red Each person is allotted 12 square People do wait in lines--for fish in ment store (pronounced Gooms--its Square we had asked some Soviet meters in the government-owned flats Novgorod, for baked goods in Mos­appearance is more impressive than students what news they heard of the 
and approximately 17 in the cow, assuredly for many more things its name); radiates the same effect United States. They knew about un­privately-owned flats. Rent is only 2 of which I do not know. whichever way one stands. employment and about California's 
or 3 percent of the average income It's no wonder, then, that young I enjoyed the Kirov Theater too, loose moral atmosphere, drunk and has not risen in decades. In­people wanting to trade illegally for even though I had gone expecting the driving, and needle-shooting addicts. comes range from 250 to 800 rubles a money or clothes appear almost in­ballet. The heavy woman at the ticket Hopefully, we created a slightly more month--manual laborers earning stantaneously wherever Americans window finally conveyed to us that it positive impression. Despite the more than doctors. go. Western currencies can be used in was not performing that night. We stereotype I hold of a gray country, I 
Intourist, the Soviet Union's "travel barioshkas, stores selling goods for decided to stay for the opera--my have come away from the Soviet agency," fuddled our itinerary. In­tourists--goods which the Soviet first opera. Not until 15 minutes into Union with a colorful sense of the stead of spending all of our time in people themselves cannot obtain. it, when we heard a distinct "nyet," people. Moscow and Leningrad (as we We went to the Novgorod barioshka were we absolutely sure it was in Once back in London, we took the thought we would), we spent three twice one day. Both times after we Russian. The production was extrava­tube to our usual stop. As I walked full days in Novgorod. Ever heard of pulled on the door the women at the gant and well received. tiredly from the station, I was it? Neither had we. desk inside seemed to be motioning Most definitely, the Soviet Union's surprised how happy I felt to see the 
Intourist had promised two sched­us away. So twice we left. We thought best aspect is her people. I remem­neon advertising, the cramped little uled events per day. Near the end we had come during break times. ber, though, that the first person I shops, the color, and the variety (the they had to stretch their imagina­Later that night, we were slightly saw upon deboarding the plane was a sun! ) . That dirty street has never tions. We even had a tour of the Nov­embarrassed to discover that the wo­soldier at the foot of the stairs. The looked so good since. ­gorod library. men had simply been motioning for majority of older people were serious I don't think I'd choose to return to 
Seriously, seeing the English litera­us to push on the second door. and, I sensed, somewhat skeptical of the Soviet Union, but I wouldn't have ture that the government did allow Kids carry with them collections of us. missed it for the world ... or Oktober­proved interesting. Lots of small pins expressly for gum-trading. However, the young people whom fest.. .or the beach at Nice. 

Thursday, November 17, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  FOR SALE: '82 CHEVY CAVILlER-NEW BRAKES, NEW TIRES, OVER $1000 REPAIR WORK (CARBORATOR  PLEASE I NEED PENN TICKETS, GA'S OR STUDENTS. $$ NO OBJECT. PLEASE CALL DAVID AT 2275  I really need one Penn Sf student ticket. Please call john at 2163 and leave name and number.  Alison: You will be forever be our beloved PB. You shall leave a legacy ol cynicism unparalleled in our era.  HEY GRANDMA, GO IRISH!!! YOU ARE A CINFUL WOMAN.  
NEEDS WORK) GOOD PRICE-$500.00  HELP! I need a ride to Exit 6 PA Tu  RIDE NEEDED TO ROCH, NY AREA  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  CALL MARY AT 284-5060  Hi I Are you lrom Iowa ? No ? Well 1 am and I need 6 Penn State G.A.'s for some Iowans. So help me out and sell me your  I need a PENN STATE ticket call 222 PENN STATE 222 PENN STATE call 222  rnpike lor Thanks. break. Will pay $$$ Mike x4141  ON 11121. CALL BRETT x2034 Thks. RIDE NEEDED to PARKERS­ 
ACADEMICSUSINESS TYPING 237-1949 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. LOCAL NOT FOR PROFIT ORGANIZA· TION HAS OPENINGS FOR QUALIFIED PERSONS IN OUR GROUP HOMES. RESIDENTIAL ASSIS· TANTSSUBSTITUTES PROVIDES CARE AND TREATMENT FOR DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED ADULTS. FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULES. VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE AND TRANSPORTATION NEEDED FULL TIME. PART TIME. SUBSTITUTES. REPLY TO: LOGAN 1235 N. EDDY ST., P.O. BOX 1049, SO. BEND. IN 46624: 289·4831  TICKETS NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE CALL SHEILA--271-9365 we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would be really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call walter x2151 or michelle x2844 TOP $ FOR GOOD SO. CAL. SEATS. NEED HI. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT (805) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 PM 211H133-1072 FRANCIS. HELP! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SII CALL 277·1513 I need penn state tickets. call at 277­6224.  tickets-Go watch the game at Coach's or somewhere... Pat at 272-5848. Will trade 2 USC tx lor 2 Penn St GAs. Call John at 271·0129(1eave message) •• RUEBEN KINCAID IS COMING •• AND HE NEEDS 1 PENN ST. TICKET CALL 277 5843 STD. OR GA HELP!! Need 2 USC Tix Badly Call Rich 1461 or John 1073 ROCKIN' RENTS FROM MILWAUKEE NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A.'S-CALL LAURA AT II 4419 $$$$$$ NEED 2 STU TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL CAF AT 2364 IF SELLING  I NEED 2 USC TICKETS, HAVE$$$$! PLEASE CALL TERRY, 288-5423 NEED PENN STATE TIX. BIG$$$ CALL 831-3727 Collect betw. 8-5 PLEASE: Help me impress my brothers by selling me 2 Penn St GA'sl$$$ call TRISH x4003 AG­GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG Please help mel! I am brokel!l fl you are In need of a Penn St. Student Tlcket-1 have one. Call me at 2612 and save me from becoming a pauparllfThanksllf 0 NEED PENN ST STUD? I HAVE ONE! BEST OFFER AT 2186-TIFFANYIIf  ADOPTION IS THE ONLY WAY we will ever hear the laughter of our own child when St. Nicholas comes at Christmas. We are a happily married couple, both doctor who w1sh to take turns staying at home when we have a baby to adopt and love as our own. LegaV medical ex· penses paid. Call collect, confidentially, anytime for more info or to leave a mes· sage. (317)-844·1856 •••SENIORs••• THIRD THURSDAY AT BEACON BOWL 9-? (SEE YOU THERE) ELLEN NICHOLS FIESTA BOWL QUEEN  BURG, WV or near it, Nov. 22. Ride needed back from LEXINGTON, KY or ATLANTA, Nov. 27. Call Susan, 2722. THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES IS MEETING AT THE CCE GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID THURSDAY-12:15 PM FIESTA BOWL DISCOUNTED AIR FARES Round trip to Phoenix: Chicago O'Hare $240 & $248 Ch1cago M1dway $283 Detroit $214-$298 New York J.F.K. $278 Cleveland $298 Ft. Wayne $358 Dallas $258 Wash. D.C. $238 Philly $318 Cincy $318 Louisville $338 Atlanta $288 Boston $258 Umiled no. of seats available' Must buy by Nov. 28. Call Cynthia (214) 233·8468 or (214) 324-9831 (H). ''The Noire Dame myst1que IS gone." Joe  
FOR THE LAST 3 YRS. MY FRIENDS  THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE EMERGENCY!!  SENIOR BLOCK PARTY  Paterno-1986  
LOST/FOUND HelpIll somebody took by mistake a blue book bag on Friday November 11 at the South Dintng Hall, around 1 p . please contact L1ang Zhu at 283-3 52 or leave a message to the Instil of International Peace Studies. FOUND: aet of keys In Oak Room before Fall break. call John 3443.  I need 2 USC tickets Please help me out il you have any. Call Bob at x3647. Need PSU fix stu or GA Call Chris at 277-7384 HELP! REALLY NEED 3 GAs to USC! Cecilia 4431 NEED PENN ST. STU. TIX. CALL JULIE Xt271  FROM PENN ST. HAVE GOTTEN A LAUGH OUT OF THE PSU·ND FOOT· BALL GAME. NOW.IN MY SENIOR YEAR, THEY WANT TO COME OUT FOR THE GAME. PLEASE LET ME GET THE LAST LAUGH AND SELL ME 3 TIX. WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$. CALL ROLAND AT x3828. I need Penn Si. GA's call Mike al 277­1503  I DESPERATELY NEED PENN STATE TIXI PLEASE CALL ME AT 2853 ASAP! DESPERATE I need 2 Penn Slate GA's Call Mark $2342 I NEED STD. TIX FOR PENN STATE!! CALL AND GIVE PRICE TO NICK AT 3247  COUNTDOWN: 1 DAY J.A.C.C. 3-8 PM GO LEWIS! BLITZ BPI RIDERS WANTED Need rldars to Fairfield County Ct. lor Thanksgiving­ RIDE NEEDED to BINGATHACA area for Thanksgiving: can leave Mon.: will share expenses:call Erin # 3757 COME SEE NO's BEST NEW BAND THREE JACKS AND A JILL THURSDAY NIGHT AT CLUB 23  
I lost a gold pulsar watch last Friday.The band on rt ts busted,so if you found it don't put 11 on. Instead, please call Shifty at 1588 Otherwise I Will have my room­mate Paul beat you up. Reward offered for the Iinder.  Rednecks need 1 student and 2 GA's for Penn State game. Call Bosephus at 3157 or 3155. New Jersey devil also needs Penn State GA's. Call Rudolph at 3155 or 3157. HELP! I need a stud Penn Sl. lik. -call  SELLING 2 USC PLANE & GAME TIX. CALL 271-9885. $ NEGOTIABLE. NEED 8 USC TIX. CALL 2761. YOU NEED MONEY. I NEED PENN STATE GA'S. CALL 2448.  NEED PENN ST GAS WILL PAY ANYTHING OR DO ANY FAVORS TOM 1739 need 1 GA¢2 stud tx for Penn Sl call  share expenses, leaving 21st or 23nd, return 27th Call Matt II 3610 T-BONE-LIVES EROTIC CITY! Murph  I NEED A RIDE FOR THANK. BREAK TO (OR ANYWHERE NEAR) EXIT 17 ON THE PA TURNPIKE. CALL BETH 2964 $$$ SARA LIEBSCHER  
REWARD to the person returning my 89 class nng left in the Loftus mens locker room. It has MJM on the 1nside. Call Matt at 289-4315.  Amy 3789 Penn State GAs needed, II 3348 $$$$$  HELP! I NEED 2 PENN STATE TIX. MY BROTHER IS COMING IN. CALL EILEEN II 2615  Paul 1865 NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX TIM 287-6053  GO LEWIS BEAT BP  HAPPY BIRTHDAYllf HAVE A GREAT DAY!! LUV VA, YOUR ROOMMATES  
I NEED 4 PENNST TIXI X4000 MIKE  
LOST: An 18", 14K gold chain. Lost somet1me before noon on Tues.. Novem· ber 15. It IS diamond cut on one side, hering bone on the other. Please call Leslie at 2812. LOST: ONE ILILINOIS DRIVER'S LICENSE. TlfE PERSON WHO FOUND  Need two GA's lor Penn State Call Rob at II 1051 or Brian at 3234 I NEED PENN ST TIX STUDENT AND GA CALL JOHN 1067 I NEED PENN ST & USC TIX 272-6306  NEED SEVERAL PENN ST TIXI! CALL 284·5047 MISSY I NEED 2 PENN ST. GAs! CALL KATIE 284-5136 2 PENN STATE TIX WITH WIEND  PENN STATE STUD TICKET FOR SALE ALL FROM 9·10 TONIGHT 1935 I NEED 2 PENN ST. STUD TIX X1631 NEED 5 PENN ST. TIX STUD OR GA WILL PAY$ CALL CHRIS x2866  LEWIS FOOTBALL SUNDAY!!!!! I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR T-GIVING. $$. CHRIS x3048. John and Alison, sitting In a tree, K­1-S-S-1-N-G...  FIND A FRIEND IN AUGUSTA Augusta Chnstmas Cocktail Party Dec. 3 Call a Friend  
IT CALLED MY ROOMMATE. PLEASE CALL AGAIN-I NEED SOME IDENTIFI­CATION II 2681 KEVIN  $$$ I need Penn St. tixl  RENTAL OF 2-BDRM. CAMPUS, 272-6306.  HOME  NEAR  Penn st stud for lease Call Grit i688 btwn 3 and 9pm Th  John-Campus Ministry lost a sign this weekend. What did you lose?  RIDE NEEDED  
LOST: Gray Maxell Dlac at Computing Center on Sunday, Nov. 13 etapprox. 5 pm. lnltfellzed TRACY. Need deeperetely. Cell 239-5474 or 683­7884.  Call Duane x1661 $$$ MORGAN STANLEY NEEDS TIX TO PENN STATE; GA'S OR STUD'S. PLEASE CALL (800) 223-2440 EXT.  NEED 1 STUD. PENN STATE. 3860. I need one (only one!) ticket for USC.$$$$ call Molly 4544. Penn stud fix FOR SALE Call Mike at 2647  Really need 2 Ga's and 1 Student for Penn St. x 1577 3 PENN STATE STUD TIX NEEDED MICHELLE II 2615  LAST WINTER I GOT BUMPED FROM AN EASTERN AIRLINE FLIGHT AND THEY GAVE ME A ROUND TRIP TICKET TO ANYWHERE IN CONTNEN· TAL U.S. GOOD UNTIL THANKSGIV­ING. I CAN'T USE IT. IF YOU WANT  Gotng to Iowa Saturday after game. Call Amy at 284-4265. Will share $. PLANE TICKET FOR SALE TO D.C. ON NOV 19 CHEAP!! Call 284-4242.  
6971, FOR DAN.  I'll give you a 6-pack of beer, a bag of  TO BUY IT, CALL SEAN AT 4784.  NEED RIDE TO  
FOR RENT  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL TIM AT 412-343-4293.  HELP!! NEED 2 OR MORE PENN ST STUD TIX GEORGE 1595!1  chips, and your price, if you give me your stud Penn State ticket. You'll be getting paid lor being warm and comlortabale  Get Moonstruck at SMC Nov15·17 $1 9 & 11 at Carroll Aud.  DUTCHESS COUNTY, N.Y TUES. OR WED. CALL CINDY 272-7690  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153.  NEED 4 USC TIX PLEASE CALL 3570 Hello. We need Penn State lix GA or  2 PENN STATE GA'S FOR SALE CALL RONALD AT 272-4583 BETWEEN 9.00 AND 12.00 PM  while you watch lhe game on TV. Give me a call at x1704.  SMC Off Campus is sponsoring MOONSTRUCK Nov 15·17 in Carol! Aud 9 & 11 $1 All welcome  LOOKING for GUY to SWitch USC TRIP flight. I depart 11123 5:50pm NWST Want  
student. Call 3488. Goodbye.  to depart 3pm NWST J1m 1865  
Furnished Roome & 2 Bedroom home near campua.272-6306  PLEASE I I NEED 3 PENN ST TIX. JOE X1728  I need 2 Penn State GA's Call Sly at II 3122  PERSONALS  ATTN ALL SMCIIID TOASTMASTERS BULL-THROWING CONTEST 11117 220 HAYES-HEALY, 7:30. COME SEE WHO  OR LOOKING for GIRL to switch USC TRIP flight. I depart 11123 3pm NWST Want  
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO. AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES· TEA. 287-6389 OR 683-8889.  Need Penn St. G.A Tix. Call Joe at 287­4561.  i..NEiio· ;·r;iit:iN..sruo· iii"c;;:cc·2·77~ 9428---ROB  N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White  TELLS THE BEST TALL TALE! ?'SCALL 284-5308, 283-1023  to depart 5:50 NWST. Sharon 1813  
Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check  KIM,  BILL NEVILLE  
WANTED SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Phil 233·2342  PLEASE!!-! NEED PENN STATE TICK· ETS II CALL FRAN-II 2999 I NEED PENN ST TIX CALL NED AT 1178 I need two GA's for the Penn State game. Please call Melissa at 283·3090 after 7:00PM.  Help!!l I need 1 stud or GA for Penn Stale call John x3367 Need 2GAs & 1 Stud lor Penn St!!l Call Maunne x2615. HELP! I'm going home to California for USC game, but I have no tixl If you can help, call Kevin at 1128.  to: MAIN EVENT, LA. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, LA.. CA90037. 213-741­1338. $$$$$ PENN STATE TIX WANTED GA OR STUD TIX CALL 234-1 048 .... jen.  Vivir sin su amor noes v1vir CLUB 23 Excellent stuffed and nsgular pizza. Eat In or carry out. 234-3541 THANKSGIVING BANQUET Dinner at the Anaheim Marriott for ANYONE going to the USC GAME, tix  I never thought the nde home would in· elude champagne, Boston, and so many other memories. It's been a year to re­member. HAPPY ANNIVERSARY love, me BUSH OR DUKAKIS? WE REALLY DON'T CARE WHO YOU VOTED FOR, WE JUST WANT YOUR  
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All !felda. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625  WE'RE DESPERATE AND WEALTHY NEED PENN. ST. STUDS & GA'S. CALL 1649 HELP!! All I need are 2 Penn St GAs  I need 1 PENN ST GA. Seen 1730 Need 2 Penn State Tix Call Tom-288­4036  before long a female student will be se· lected to represenl ND at thhe bowl game. let's not embarrass ND again.let's pick someone with a liHie class who knows something about the Irish.  at the LaFortune Box Office until Friday, Nov. 18 btwn 12:30 & 6:00pm Share the day with other ND Fans!!! Pay by cash, check, Visa, or Master card. ADVANCE SALES ONLY!!  MONEY!!!!!! STOP BY THE F.A.C. CON­CESSION STAND BEFORE THE PENN STATE GAME AND GET YOUR HOT DOGS, BRATS, DOUGHNUTS AND MORE, YOURS FREE WHEN YOU  
HELP I NEED TO GET OUT OF SO BEND IF YOUR GOING TO THE D.C. AREA FOR BREAK PLEASE CALL KIM 284·5174 $$$  Call Tina at x4846 ANYTIME!! need Penn St GA. Tim3596  PLEASE HELP! I NEED ONE PENN STATE TICKET OF ANY KIND. CALL TRISHA AT 283·1290.  UN IV PIZZA DLVY 277-8889 HEY SENIORS ...  To my Farley SYR Date of last Friday­Thanks for a fantastic time I I hope that we can go out again sometime very soon  DONATE A PREDETERMINED AMOUNT OF MONEY. STOP BY, IT'S A GOOD CAUSE, JUST ASK US.  
RIDERS NEEDED To Pins. for Thanksgiving Call Laura 284­5243.  NEED PENN ST STUD OR GA'SII CALL ROB 271-8323 TWO SEASON BASKETBALL TICKETS  NEED 3 STUD OR G.A. TIX FOR PENN STATE..DESPERATEII CALL ED AT 287-7933  Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell Going to an SYR is hell. You and I, we both know that. The Christmas Formal is where it's at.  I Post that JeH Jeffers autograph along with the Hall Notes on kissing your date .. Baby Fouy Bear I  IRISH REPUBLIC T-SHIRTS $8.00 Golden Dome, Stadium. & TO Jesus on the back: Leprachaun on front. XMAS GIFTS! We Deliver. 289-1850.  
RIDER NEEDED Round trip D.C. area lv. Sun. 11120 rtn. Sun. 11127. Karen 284-5185.  FOR SALE. CALL KEN 312·844·7236. I NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S AND 1 STUD CALL JULIE 284·5440  TOP$ FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S & 1 STUDENT TICKET. CALL KATHY AT II 2880 ASAP!! 1 PENN ST. STUDENT TICKET FOR  Be sure to sign-up before you leave for Thanksgiving ... HO HO  WANTED: Riders to Houston for Thanks­giving. Leaving Mondayish, returning Sunday. Call Brian at x3670. Please please please.  Congratulations Laura love, Kelly  
- FOR SALE  CHICAGO ALUMNI-WILL PAY TOP $$ FOR A PAIR OF PENN ST. GA'S CALL (312) 403-2659  SALE. BEST OFFER, CALL PAT AT 1004. I Need TWO PENN STATE STUDENT  Christmas FormaL  HO  Going lo D.CA'lockville,MD area for Thanksgiving? I need a ride from there lo N.D. anytime that weekend. Will share expenses. Please call Stacy X1511.  hlag.  
CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CAUL FOR FACTS TODAY. 802-837-3401. EXT. 881.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN. $$$ NO OB· JECT TERRY 1806 ANYTIME. If you HAPPEN to be burdened by extra Penn St. GA's in groups ol 2's or  tickets: Please call MEGAN 2577 NEED PENN ST GAs. CHRIS xt073 WILL PAY BIG$$$$ FOR PENN STATE  Christmas Formal.. Christmas Formal ... Be thhere on Dec. 2 MATH TUTOR-234-3878.  BILLY THE ID L1ve at McCormick'..Coney Island  BALLROOM COMPETITORS--meet Friday in room 219 of THE ROCK­women who want to, come at 2 and everyone else, at 31!1  
- for sale: 1 plane tix:SB to Newark 11122· 11128·1'11 sell at cost call II 2898 or 288­9402 USC PACKAGE!! For sale. Guys only Call Dan at 271­0758.  3's, call Pete xt053 and let him help you out. I NEED 2 G.S. PENN ST. TIX.--WILL PAY BIG $$$.-CALL 277-2506 AFTER 6 I NEED 7 PENN ST. GA'S because there's this gtrl and... Oh just call Tim at II 2847 $$$  GA'S CALL MONTE 2831577 HELP MUST HAVE 4 GAS FOR USC PLEASE PLEASE CALL HEATHER 284­5264 OR LEAVE A MESSEGE 2 Penn St. tixs for sale 272-5095  I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y.C AREA go 11· 22 ret 11·27 will share exp call Peter x2124 A Night of Illusion with Stuart and Lori COMEDY MUSIC SLEIGHT OF HAND  FRIDAY NIGHT RUTH ANN KEYSO BECOMES A WO­MAN OF THE WORLD THIS WEEKEND WHEN SHE TURNS 201 CALL HER AT 2865 AND WISH HER HAPPY B·DAYI (OR ASK HER TO AN SYRI)  Top Ten from our side! tOMy date can't walk! 9Can anyone focus this thing? BAnd lhis is Chessy 7What flowers? 6Hey, it was a ntce tie Doug. 5Dude, mine's not bad! 4Will I get lo see you again? 31 don'l know; what's your name? 2My date has Pumpk1h Breath! 1Dates R us--WE DELIVER!  
TECHNICS SL·BD2 turntable: Jay"1910 T!GIVING ROUND TRIP O'HARE TO SAN FRAN. 20th-26th $233 x3201  HELP!I'M DESPERATE!! NEED 3 PENN TICKETS CALL MARY 3782 ANYTIME! DESPERATELY NEED 8 PENN ST GA'S CALL TODD AT 1406 OR 1409  HELP! SAVE ME FROM CERTAIN DEATH BY THE HANDS OF MY OWN TWO BROTHERS SELL ME YOUR 2 PENN STATE TIX. JOE 3698. PLEASE! TWO PENN STATE STU. TIX FOR  ILLUSION November, 17, 9:00pm Washington Hall $1 IT DID NOT HAPPEN LAST WEEK, BUT IT WILL HAPPEN THIS WEEK. Wed &  HELP! Need a ride to Albany, NY,for Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. call Veronica 3764. You don't have to be from I he West Coast  DINNER WENCHES FROM HELL You misinterpreted: "EASY" just meant "whoa". not...well...you know. I give up, you winl I'm transferring. 1188  
FOR SALE PENN STATE QAa WITH WOMENS SKI JACKET & BIBS ALL FOR $215 CAUL TRICIA 7-10 PM 284· 5211  OF COURSE I NEED PENN STATE TIX 4 G.A.'s and 1 Stud. Tom Varnum x3267  SALE. CALL LIZ 284·4325 OR SARAH 284-4310 NEED PENN STATE G.A.'S CALL 284· 4336.  Thurs in the dining halls, you can sign up to win a free phone call to your friends studying abroad. The best part is that this time it's going to be FREEl! Courtesy of Student Government and the Alumni  to enjoy CORVALLIS CALLING Sun. Nov. 20 from 8 lo 12 at Shenanigans (in the G-town Mall) You don't have to stay in and study this Sun.  COME WATCH SARA LIEBSCHER TAKE 20 SHOTS ON HER B·DAY TONITE AT 7:301! GOOD LUCK SARA II!  
ROUND TRIP TICKET FROM SB TO  HELP!! I NEED 1 PENN ST. STUDENT  Association. ?'s-Mary 1363 or drop oH  It's only a two day week So go to Mass  
WHITE PLAINS, NY. DEC. 14 RETURN JAN. 17. CALL JIM 277-9956.  TICKET. MY SISTER WANTS TO SEE NO KILL ST CALL MARK x1937  I HAVE ONE PENN STATE STU. TIK. CALL DEBBIE 284-4431.  name, address, and phone number at 427 BP for a chance.  in the morning and party with Corvallis Calling at nighl  see CLASS, page 7  

--~--------~~----------------~-----------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 17, 1988 The Observer 
page 11 
All-America team selected 
Top-ranked teams are well-represented in AP voting 
Associated Press 
Sean Elliott of Arizona, Stacey King of Oklahoma and Danny Ferry of Duke--three players who were instrumental in their team's Final Four ap­pearances last season--were the top vote-getters in The As­sociated Press' preseason All­America team announced Wed­nesday. 
Joining the three senior for­wards on the six-man team were sophomore guard Mark Macon of Temple, senior guard Sherman Douglas of Syracuse and junior forward J.R. Reid of North Carolina. Douglas and Reid tied for the final spot in the voting of the 65-member panel which selects the weekly Top Twenty. 
Elliott and Reid were All­Americans last season, while Ferry and Macon were chosen for the second team. 
The 6-foot-8 Elliott was the top vote-getter, having been season while shooting 57 per­season but his 8.2 assist
HELP WANTED 
cent from the field, 47 percent average shows how important from 3-point range. he is, especially this season
Delivery Drivers, 
Ferry is looking for his third when Syracuse could see fresh­
waitresses and 

Final Four trip in a storied men playing a key role in the 
waiters, 

career at Duke, the No.1 team offense. 
in the preseason poll. The 6-10
Needed for 
son of the Washington Bullets The other top vote-getters
Bruno's Pizza. Apply in 
general manager was named were: B.J. Armstrong, Iowa, Atlantic Coast Conference 16; Pervis Ellison, Louisville, AP flhc*)

person at Bruno's, 
player of the year last season 14; Todd Lichti, Stanford, 13; North Carolina's J. R. Reid, shown in action In last year's NCAA 921 N. Eddy 
after averaging 19.1 points, 7.6 Glen Rice, Michigan, 13; and playoff game against Michigan, was named one of six members rebounds and 4.0 assists. Mookie Blaylock, Oklahoma, of the preseason All-America team. Details and other team
::~ftAr 3:30 o.m. 

Macon was named to every 10. members appear at left. 
To The Infamous 

Heldt

EIKabone
* 
continued from page 16
AKA 
onship ring. 

Phreddy Phart * * * 
And some people might rec­
ognize his name. "It's not a very glamorous
* * AKA 

CHICO 
position," understated Heldt, 
"unless you fumble a snap. As 
long as I make the holes and
Plaunting Phlatulence Phreely 
is Disgusting! 
see the backs' names in the paper, I'm happy." 
+
American 
Signed, A Friend 
Red Cross 
(Mama says Hi!) 
Be a volunteer. 

named on 56 ballots, two more than King and three more than Ferry. 
Macon was named on 30 bal­lots, while Douglas and Reid each appeared on 23. 
King is the leading returning scorer of the group, having averaged 22.3 last season while grabbing 8.5 rebounds and blocking 2.6 shots per game. The 6-10 King is considered the top center in college basketball and many feel King will be playing the season feeling he has to prove his being cut from the Olympic team was a mis­take. 
Elliott didn't make the Olym­pic team either despite his being considered a versatile player so necessary in that sit­uation. He, too, will be on a team hurt by graduation as El­liott and Anthony Cook are the only starters returning from the Wildcat team which held the No.1 spot for six weeks last season. Elliott averaged 19.6 points and 5.8 rebounds last all-freshman team last season and his 20.6 points and 5.7 rebounds per game were more than enough credentials. The 6­5 native of Saginaw, Mich. will have to take more of the bal­lhandling responsibilities this season following the gradua­tion of point guard Howard Evans. 
Reid is the only Olympian on the preseason All-America team. The 6-9, 250-pounder suf­fered a foot injury in Seoul and missed three games there. He broke a bone in his other foot during practice at North Carolina last month, under­went surgery and is not ex­pected to rejoin the Tar Heels until conference play begins after the first of the year. He ~ averaged 18 points and 8.9 rebounds last season while shooting 61 percent from the field. 
The 6-foot Douglas will once again be running the show for the Orangemen. He averaged 
16.1 points per game last 


CAMPUS VIEW APAR,.MEN,.S HAPPY 7BANKSGIVING 
Renting now for August 1989 Furnished Apartments Indoor pool 
-¥-FOR  Exercise Equipment  
INFORMATION  and Jacuzzi Spa  
CALL  
272-1441  

~-~-~--~-----~---~---­
-----~~--~-----~--~~ ----~-­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1988 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 

having Notre Dame acquire the 
benefits of a tough, conference­
type scheule while retaining in­
dependent status. 

"Since we're not in a confer­
ence, we figured we'd play the 
best schedule we can by 
playing two teams from every 
conference, which will be our 
conference--our 28 games," 
said the all-time winningest 
Notre Dame coach. "Then, that 
will condition us for what we're 
trying to do in March." 

The improved schedule has 
the players excited as well. 

"It was hard to keep your 
mental attitude high last year 
when we were on such different 
keels--in the weekend playing 
a Duke or Kentucky, then 
playing a weaker team on a 
Tuesday or Thursday," said 
Fredrick. "This year we have 
to be mentally in it each night. 
We can't go down the schedule 
and say, 'There's a win, there's 
a win,' we have to prove our­
selves every night." 

Second, the freshman class: 
led by 6-9 forward LaPhonso 
Ellis, the Notre Dame Class of 
1992 has been rated as one of 
the best in the nation. 

Flanner nips Pangborn in lnterhall soccer 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 

The interhall soccer champi­onship has finally been nar­rowed down to the last game of the season, to be decided in tonight's season finale between Pangborn and Flanner. 
Tuesday night at Moose Krause Stadium, the upstart team from Flanner forced a final championship game by defeating Pangborn 1-0 in a rough and physical match. As the team from the loser's bracket, Flanner needed to win that game in order to force a one-game ali-or-nothing con­test for the interhall champion­ship. 
And that is exactly what they did. 
"I didn't think that we played very well," said Pangborn co­ach Derek Weldon. "Our of­fense wasn't there. We had one forward injured early in the game, and another one didn't arrive until later." 
Under warm but blustery conditions, the only goal in the game came midway through the first half. Going against the wind, a shot on goal by Flanner forward Garth Behrje got held up by the wind just enough to cause some indecision and con­fusion on the part of Pangborn's defense. The ball was deflected out front and promptly deposited in the net by Flanner midfielder Dave Neidell. 
Despite an overwhelming number of shots by Pangborn, they could not capitalize when it counted. Another stellar per­formance by Flanner goalie Tom Malone made the only e"oal of the e"ame a winner. ~ Pangborn~ will attempt to rebound and capture the title in tonight's game. The two teams will square off at 7:30p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium to decide this year's interhall soccer champions. 
"I think once these guys adapt to the concentration at this level as well as the con­cepts at this level, coming out of high school and going into college, we'll begin to make strides as a basketball team," said Phelps. 
Ellis, a first-team selection on the 1988 Parade All­American team, led East St. Louis (Ill.) Lincoln High School to the 1987 and 1988 Illinois state titles. He averaged 18.9 points, 18.8 rebounds and 7.3 blocked shots for Lincoln. 
"I think LaPhonso Ellis is everything we thought he was going to be," Phelps said. "I didn't want to put any pressure on him, I just want him to blend in. 
"He's got to stay out of foul trouble, know when to block shots and when not to, and he'll be an agressive player inside at both ends of the floor. He'll start, he'll play. Let's see how he does." 
Two high scorers from Texas add to the highly-touted fresh­man class. Point guard Elmer Bennett, Texas' Mr. Basketball in 1988, averaged 35.8 points and 6.2 rebounds for Houston Bellaire High School. Daimon Sweet, a 6-5 off-guard, was named the MVP in the Texas high school all-star game. 
Other freshmen include 6-2 Keith Adkins, a three-point shooter from Paintsville, Ky.; and Keith Tower, a 6-11 center from Coraopolis, Pa. 
Tower surprised Phelps with his surprising play on the front line, which includes Ellis and returning players Scott Pad­dock, a 6-9 junior, and Keith Robinson, Notre Dame's top re­turning scorer and rebounder. 
Robinson has just returned to practice following an ankle in­jury suffered early in the school year. 
"(Robinson) has got a lot of catching up to do," Phelps said. "He's picking up things in review as far as the system, so he's playing catch-up. I don't know how much of a factor he'll be at the early part of the season. 
"I think Tower is the surprise," Phelps said, "because I didn't think he'd do as well as he is doing. He picks up the concepts really well and he's a good player. He's going to help us a lot." 
Sophomore  Kevin  Ellery  
adds  depth  to  the  Irish  
frontcourt.  

Fredrick, Jackson and point may cause one of the players, guard Tim Singleton bring ex­perhaps Sweet, Jackson or perience to the Irish backcourt. Fredrick to see time at small Fredrick returns after averag­forward. ing 7.7 points per game his sophomore year. Jackson, last "As far as the style of play," year's defensive player of the Phelps said, "we'll try and year, scored 5.3 points per con­press full court as much as we test and added 49 assists, can. We'll play 10 guys the first playing in every Irish game. half, we've got that talent, and 
keep the heat on the opposition. 
At point guard will be soph­Obviously, we want to move the omore Tim Singleton and Ben­ball down the floor. nett. Singleton had 38 assists in "We'll make mistakes early, 28 games last season, playing but once this team comes on, mostly in defensive situations. they'll be able to compete 
The large number of guards against anybody." 
finally found that picture I 
Belated Happy 21st Birthday Janice Terpin 
Love, Guess Who 
(with a little help from their Observer contact) 
., 

·······-'-'<«"-'·''·'····"""""'""'"""'""''''''"'-"""'''""""'' ® 
The American Express'" Card gets an outstanding welcome 
virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket or a leather-bound classic. Whether you're bound for a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. 
The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without It~ 


------c ~-__,-.,.....-•---____..--•-_.,__.
~-~ ~---~---~ ~ ---~----~--·-~-----------~-··----·--~ 
Thursday, November 17, 1988 The Observer page 13 

Irish to open against Mexico 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
It all starts tonight for the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team. 
The Irish take to the court in an exhibition matchup with the Mexican National Team tonight at the Joyce ACC to open the 1988-89 season. 
"We're anxious to see some new faces," said second-year head coach Muffet McGraw. "It's hard to tell right now how good we'll be and this will be a good test for us." 
McGraw is still juggling lineup options for the Irish who look to improve upon last season's 20-8 record. Senior co­captain Heidi Bunek will anchor the middle, sophomore sparkplug Karen Robinson will start at point guard, but beyond that nothing is settled heading into tonight's matchup. 
"We really haven't made any decisions yet on starters," said McGraw, "so tonight will be a good opportunity to look at people in game situations. 
"This team from Mexico isn't very tall, but they're fast. They've had a few injuries so they're only playing about eight people. But like most in­ternational teams, they'll move the ball well and get it up the court quickly. It should be an uptempo-type game." 
That suits Karen Robinson just fine. 
"We're supposed to be a run­ning team and this will be a good challenge for us," said Robinson. "It'll also be nice to play against someone other than ourselves like we do in practice and did Sunday in the Blue-Gold game. This will be a good test of our progress so far." 
The Irish are entering their first year as members of the nine-team Midwestern Col­legiate Conference, which in­cludes Dayton, Marquette and Loyola. In the pre-season coaches poll the Irish were picked to win the conference by all seven of the coaches who voted. 

Bunek, who averaged 17.9 points and 8.8 rebounds last season, was also picked as a pre-season conference first­team All-Star. The Irish also return Lisa Kuhns, a senior co­captain who is deadly from the perimeter and averaged nine points per outing last season. 
After meeting the Mexican team tonight the Irish will travel to Northwestern on No­vember 29 for their first regu­lar season game. Following the Virginia Tournament the next weekend, Notre Dame's first home game will be Dec. 7 against Marquette. 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 

Karen Robinson (20), shown in action last season against Marquette, returns this year to help lead the Irish women's 
ND tennis to play final meet 
basketball team. Brian O'Gara details the women's upcoming exhibition game against Mexico at right. 
Rolex Regional Qualifier to conclude men's fall season 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
Position available. 
This fall the Notre Dame
Immediate opening. men's tennis team has traveled to Athens, Ga., and Annapolis, Md., but this weekend the Irish Inquire within. 
1 
will stay in Indiana. The Irish squad will pack their bags for the Rolex Regional Qualifier .. not an easy life. In 
Thursday through Sunday in 
pl~:•ccs I rom Chk.1go to Ban~la· 
Bloomington. Although the
c.lcsh, you'll serve the poor and 


Irish have faced top national talent, Notre Dame's last fall event will be no easy task. 
"The Rolex is limited to the top individual players in the region," said Head Coach Bob Bayliss. 
Among those standouts in the region is Malava Washington of Michigan. Washington won the Volvo All-American Collegiate Tennis Tournament, college 
rich. the aged and young, the 
educated and liiH.·ducatcd. The life demands prayer. hard work and vision. The rewards are .:rl•at. .. even in this life. You will have opportuuilic•s 10 devdup your potential. You will con­
tinue the work of Christ. share 
llis mission and respond to world needs. There is no joy in this world to compare with that 
By the witness of our lives. Brothers serve in: Missions, Education, Socii\1, Pastoral. Hcallh Care, Youth and Retreat Work. Farming. Maintenance and other trades and profes­sions that help to strengthen 
Christian Community. 
T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS,
For more information. 
Contact: 
llrother Don Gibbs, C.S.C. 
WHo•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
P.O. Box 460 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
219/233-2191 
DENNYS, 'VZ MILE NJ)_RI.li OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS"
HOLYCROSS T-SHIRT GIVE P.WAY. 
FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO OENNYS
BROTHERS$ 
WE ARE OPEN 24 HAS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
tennis' premier fall event. Dan Goldberg of Michigan, runner up in the NCAA Championships in 1987, is another top partici­pant. 
The 96-player field contains five of the top six recruits in the country from last year. Ty Tucker, Ohio St.'s No.1 player, won the National Indoor Cham­pionships (18 and under) in 1987. Another top incoming player is Todd Martin of Northwestern who captured the National Grass Court Championship in 1987. 
"The tournament has the top freshman in the country," said Bayliss. "It is as good a regional tournament as you can have." 
The open draw singles and doubles competition winners and runners-up will advance to the national Rolex competition. In the singles competition, 16 of the 96 players will be seeded by a selection committee. The 32 tandems in the doubles com­petition will not be seeded. In order to participate in the tournament each team can sub­mit up to six singles players and two doubles teams which are subject to a selection process. All of Notre Dame's six singles players and two doubles teams were approved. 
"I hope we make the strongest showing possible," said Bayliss. "Our top four players have demonstrated that they can do some damage." 
The Irish singles lineup has undergone some changes since the Tom Fallon-Notre Dame In­vitational. Mike Wallace, back from a rotator cuff injury, will play singles and doubles com­petition for the first time since mid-September. Paul Odland (7-3) has climbed to the No. 4 spot from No. 6. 
"Paul has had the best results week in and week out on the entire team," said the second year head coach. "The new position is based on his achievements. 
In the doubles competition, the number-one tandem of Dave DiLucia-Walter Dolhare (4-3) and the number-two duo of Mike Wallace-Dave Reiter (5-2) will compete for the Irish. 

I 
l 
I I 
l 
A 
~ 
l 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1988 
McGuire happy to be here 
Frosh center leaves Southeast, bolsters offensive line 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 

You wouldn't think the Deep South could ask Gene McGuire for any more favors. 
While playing at Mosley High School in Panama City, Fla., McGuire earned first-team All­America honors from Parade and USA Today. The Mosley Dolphins, a 1-9 team when he was in lOth grade, went a com­bined 17-3 during his final two years at the school. 
But when McGuire made his decision to attend Notre Dame, several people from around the Florida Panhandle did all they could to make him change his mind. 
"I got a lot of pressure to stay in the state to play football, and Alabama was really close, but my mom and dad wanted me to go to Notre Dame," said the freshman center. "This was the first place I visited, and after I came here I didn't want to go anyplace else. 
"Alabama respected my decision," McGuire continued. "I still got a lot of pressure from Florida and Auburn. They were kind of rude about it, but they weren't going to change my mind." 
Even after he committed to Notre Dame, rumors were rampant that McGuire eventu­ally would decide to stay closer to home. 
"About two weeks before sig­ning, somehow a rumor got started that I'd go to Ala­bama," said McGuire. "Both my best friends from high school were going to Alabama. I was recruited with both of them, and we took numerous trips to Alabama to see them play. People thought I'd go with my friends, but no, this place is worth it. 
"Even after I signed, there was a rumor I'd go to Alabama. I had to go on the news and report it was false." 
McGuire has demonstrated this fall just why so many schools were after his services. The 6-5, 265-pounder has taken advantage of a young offensive line to work his way to second on the depth chart as a center. 
McGuire himself was a little surprised at how early he received playing time. 
"I really didn't know what to expect; I came into frehshman camp, and that went pretty well," said McGuire. "Then, I 

saw the upperclassmen come in and it was like 'Geez, they're big boys.' Then we saw them run and lift weights and saw how fast and strong they were." 
A guard in high school, McGuire sampled three differ­ent positions during the pre­season drills. He started at quick guard, then moved to quick tackle behind Andy Heck, and finally arrived at center when Tim Ryan was moved to quick guard. 
"The center starts the whole offense functioning,'' said Irish offensive line coach Tony Yelovich. "He controls 10 other people, so he has a lot of re­sponsibility. 
"Gene is working and has been very conscientious in learning his rules and assign­ments," Yelovich continued. "It's always difficult for a freshman to adapt to every­thing that transpires on the of­fensive line. With the depth problems we have, he's stepped into a position where he can contribute." 
McGuire has not had too many difficulties making the adjustment of going from a high school All-American to a college second-team player. 
McGuire attributes much of his personal improvement heading into college to a couple of his high school coaches-­George Cochran, who became the head coach after the 1-9 dis­aster, and strength coach Bill Graff. 

"My lOth-grade year we ran a lot of sprints, and football was more conditioning than it was learning," said McGuire. "We'd run 60 sprints a day sometimes before and after practice. When the brand new coach came in, it was a com­plete turnaround. 
"I really wasn't very good in junior high at all. I was a late bloomer. I had been about 225 to 230 pounds, kind of tall and skinny. My strength coach, Bill Graff, really got me started with running and lifting weights and built me up." 
In fact, McGuire still psyches himself up for games by remembering the motto his team had in high school. 
"I try to envision myself making the great block, like it's fourth and goal on the one," he said. "The nose guard's going over me, and I'm just driving him backwards. That was our motto, 'Envision Greatness,' to 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Referees are needed for men's basketball, women's basketball and grad basketball with the opportunity of ear­ning $8 per game. Stop by the NVA office or call 239-6100 for more details. -The Observer 
The NO Women's Track Club is holding a brief organizational meeting tonight at 8:30 in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. If unable to attend, please notify Linda at x2563. 
-The Observer 

TheSMC intramural racquetball doubles tournament for all Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff has and entry deadline of 5 p.m. today at the Angela Athletic Facility. Participants will schedule matches on their own following the timeline established. For more information, call284-5549. 
-The Observer 

Jose Canseco, the first major leaguer to hit 40 homers and steal 40 bases in one season, was selected unanimously the American League Most Valuable Player on Wednesday. The muscular Oakland right fielder received 28 first-place votes and 392 points from a panel of 28 sportswriters, two from each AL city. Canseco is the seventh AL player to be the MVP unanimously, and the first in 15 years. Boston left fielder Mike Greenwell, with 242 points, was runner-up to Canseco, followed by Minnesota center fielder Kirby Puckett with 219 points. Canseco hit .307 with 42 homers and 124 runs batted in while leading the Athletics to the AL pennant and a 104-58 record. -The Observer 
Bill Glasson shot an 8-under par 64 Wednesday for the first-round lead at the $600,000 Kapalua International Golf Tournament. John Mahaffey and Bob Gilder shared second place, each shooting 65. -The Observer 
envision yourself doing great aJplolufu14****:.14***********'**************=f
*
things,  and then it will  hap-*  
pen."  :  
* 

But even though he learned* many of his skills back in * Panama City, nobody was ever ! going to talk him out of Notre * 
Dame. * 
"I liked the thought of living * in dorms with the rest of the * students. Everything's so close ! 
here and I really got along with * the coaches," said McGuire. * "Coach Yelovich came and ~ visited me a few times. * 
"I heard a lot of bad things * 
about the weather and how cold * it gets," McGuire continued. "I *
* 

said, 'Just get me more clothes,* 
· Friday, December 2 * South Bend's Union Station **
* 
Last Chance for Tickets 
Next Tuesday Nov. 22 
9 PM_ 1AM i * Featuring "The Groove" *
* 
* 
$18 per Couple ! 
j
* 
'il?et«-... 'fl'"-<1~ -d H<MU:<f * (6 s~ eta44 0/lta-4 j 7~. ~~ 22 (6 * -k 'fl'"" ou.u~. * 
* 
·~.u~ ,.._. ..r s,""" et= * 
o11<..-L«?...r...... * 


Thursday, November 17, 1988 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
ti p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all MBA students interested in careers with Ford Motor Company, Alumni Senior Club. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all students interested in careers with Morgan Stanley Alumni Room, Morris Inn. ' 
7 p.m. The Rochester Club will meet in the Puzzle Room of Breen-Philips Hall to discuss transportation, social activities, and other activities. Call Chris at 283-1348 for more informa­tion. 
9 p.m. SUB presents "A Night of Illusion" Magic Show, Wash­
ington Hall. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Special 
Student 
Thanksgiving 
Dinner 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Jerks 

Middle Eastern Week 
IdAST CHANCE Tuesday, November 15 Movie & Discussion The Sword of Islam, Montgomery Theater, 8pm 
Saint Mary's 
Terragon Chicken Italian Lasagna Cherry Crepes Deli Bar 
f'!?atfl~ 7Hef((;'5 NO l(lii/!JCN 1lJ £Xf€CT HIMN61lJ 5(!FFe'l{ tate# ONE MOl(~ rrNY tfi!CK0­f£tONJJ Of !Nf/N~ '8f3 
Cf/MPIII&N 13118f3t£. 
LOOK! I'VE GOT TvJO DIFFERENT COLOR.tD 
e 
SOC\<', ON· I'M NOT I J WEARING UNDERW-f\R.
I: 
) 
().. 
'~~ 
~ 

The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DOWN 
1 Little rascals 2 Uncovered 
wagon 3 Eastern bigwig 4 Insisted on 5 Boat mover 6 Bikini, e.g. 7 Corncake 8 Shirley or 
Sheridan 9 Spicy 1 o Reluctant -:+.=+:'+=i 11 Highway !rashers 
Berke Breathed 
12 Pot starter  28 Sounder  41 Crucial times  
13 Lack  29 "Sesame Street"  42 Alludes (to)  
18 Grown  character  44 Southern nut  
22 Excuses  30 Goes with 32 Record­ 45 Starling relative 46 Dull  
24 Clementine's dad, e.g.  company name 35 Cave in  47 Radius, e.g. 48 Actress Merrill  
25 Floats  36 Gathers  49 Scads  
26 Here and there  38 Cheat  so Father of Cainan  
27 Toothpaste  39 Merit pay  53 Staff  


"God, I hate walking through this place at night." 
Thursday, Nov 17 Washington Hall 9 pm, $1 
ACROSS 
1 Frosted 5 Actress from Greece 10 Thicke from 
Canada 14 Ball role 15ln accord 16 Tarzan 

transporter 11 Temperamental 
one 19 Room addition 20 Take both sides 21 Arranged by 
type 231nvalld 
24 Computer device 25 Walk like ducks 28 Opposite of estivat!'ld 31 Red as­32 S.RO. indications 33 Lingerie item 34 Loving 35 Enclosed 36 Peewee 37 Tsk 38 Solemn 39 Goblin 40 Purist 

42 Wakes 43 Unnecessary 
feature 44 Quaker leader 45 Yacht's home 47 Confuse 51 Author Murdoch 52 Parade 54 Resort for one's 
niece? 55 Fish locator 56"Do­
others ... " 57 Summer refreshments 58 Barbara and Anthony 59 Leave behind 
1 l 
~ 
By THERESA KELLY STEVE MEGARGEE  cessful year unless the Final Four."  we  make  however, schedule  are and  the upgraded the talented  
Assistant Sports Editors  The Irish will be entering the 'Battle for Seattle' with a se­ freshman class. First, the schedule:  it  in­ 
When  each  Notre  Dame  vere  shortage of experienced  cludes five  preseason top  20  
men's basketball player heads  warriors.  With  Sean  Connor  clubs  in  Duke,  Louisville,  
to daily practice, he first hits  switching sports (to football)  Syracuse, Georgia  Tech  and  
a sign which reads, "Make the  and Mark Stevenson switching  Temple. Other highly regarded  
Impossible Happen." The front  schools (to Duquesne), Notre  teams that appear on the Irish  
of it says, "Battle to Seattle,"  Dame enters the season with  schedule  include  Indiana,  
referring to the site of the 1989  no seniors.  DePaul,  Southern  Methodist  
Final Four.  But Phelps is confident in the  (under  new  head  coach  and  
It's all part of the new atti­ leadership  of  junior  co­ former  Irish  assistant  John  
tude prevalent around the Irish  captains Jamere Jackson and  Shumate) and UCLA.  
basketball team. No longer will  Fredrick.  "Every competitor's dream  
20 wins and an NCAA tourna­ "I  think  Jamere  and  is to have that challenge to go  
ment berth be good enough-­ Fredrick  are  great leaders,"  out against a highly-regarded  
this year, the Irish are setting  said  Phelps.  "I think  they'll  team and see what you can do,''  
much loftier goals.  have  everybody  playing  to  said Jamere Jackson, the other  :  
"It's really weird. In the past he (Coach Digger Phelps) has  their potential, and they'll take care of the ups and downs of  Irish co-captain. "If we were scared of the best teams, we  •a  a  21 'L..i  
always  stressed  a  20-win  the season."  wouldn't be competitors."  The Observer 1 E. G. Bailey  
season," said Irish co-captain Joe Fredrick. "The attitude now is it's not going to be a sue- The two aspects of the Irish basketball team that have drawn the most attention,  For Phelps, it's a matter of see HOOPS, page 12  Junior center Scott Paddock goes up for a layup In Sunday night's Blue-Gold game. Steve Megargee and Theresa Kelly oreview the men's season at left.  

Sports 
Thursday, November 17, 1988
page 16 

ND basketball team will try to 'make the impossible happen' 

Heldt anchors offensive line 
But sophomore center not yet a household name to fans 
By TIM SULLIVAN American Chuck Lanza, but "It's gonna be a tough one. Sports Writer was penciled in the starting (Penn State's) faced with a role last spring. losing season, they're playing 
Quick, name the starting cen­"It's an honor," said Heldt of number one with a chance of ter on the number one ranked starting as a sophomore. "I'm humiliating us. We're gonna college football team in the na­playing as well as I can, trying battle up front." tion! to get bigger and better." 
Give up? Heldt's back-up experience As for another battle--the 
Well, if you meet the 6-4, 260 last season makes him one of Miami War--Heldt was more pound one-time Florida state the elite "returning players" than elated with the victory. He heavyweight wrestling champ, on a line filled with newcomers was relieved, too. you won't soon forget him. to the college trenches. 
Mike Heldt. Write it down. "I can go home now. Their Number 55. He's been the reg­"We have to play as a family starting middle linebacker ular starter all season long and inside," noted Heldt of a line (junior Bernard Clark, 1988 Or­will be a fixture there until which has surprised most with ange Bowl MVP) is a good graduation day. its performance. "If you play friend of mine from high 
Heldt excels at a no-name po­next to someone else, it's to­school. It was great to play sition, but he doesn't mind. tally different. We've got great against him. It wouldn't have 
"Somebody has to do it," said chemistry. It's a lot of fun." been as great if we had lost," the seemingly always-happy added Heldt with a laugh. sophomore. "They told me one That chemistry and the effec­day--'you're a center now'--so tiveness of the young offensive And Heldt will be going home that's where I am. I like it; it's line will be challenged by Penn with more than just a Miami a challenge." State's defensive line--a group victory in his pocket. He'll 
A three-sport star at Leto which stuffed the running know that he's a key member High School in Tampa, Fla., games of all but West Virginia. of the Irish offense, and maybe Heldt chose Notre Dame over And Heldt certainly isn't ex­he'll have a National Champi-Florida and Florida State. He pecting an easy Saturday after­
see HELDT, page 11
sat last year behind All-noon. 
The Observer 1 Trey Raymond 
Mike Heldt (55) blasts a hole up the middle for Anthony Johnson during the Rice game. Tim Sullivan features the center at right. 
Football team loose, well-rested for Penn State 
The verdict is in on the near two-week layoff for the Notre Dame football team, and Irish coaches and players are smiling at the results. 
"It's definitely relaxed," senior tri-captain Mark Green said. "We feel good about ourselves and about what we're doing. The attitude is outstanding. Now it's just a matter of going out and doing it." 
Coach Lou Holtz gave the team a three-day pass last weekend. While the players were resting, Holtz and the coaching staff poured over game films to try to avoid last year's three-game slide that began with the Penn State game. 
The Irish returned to the practice field with zest Monday, practicing unusually long and hitting un­usually hard for the first day of the week. Holtz saw progress after the layoff, although he didn't expect substantial improvement. 
"We had some good crispness today," he said after the Monday practice. "We're too banged up to get a lot better.'' 
Holtz is 1-1 after open dates with the Irish. Last year, Pittsburgh downed the Irish 30-22 and Notre Dame defeated Navy 33-14 in 1986. In the 1980s, the Irish are 4-3 after an open date, including a 44-7 win over the Nittany Lions in 1984. 
Saturday's game will be the last in Notre Dame Stadium for the Irish seniors. 
During their four years, the seniors have com­piled a 19-4 ledger at home, including their current 11-game home winning streak. Penn State was the last team to defeat Notre Dame at home, 24-19 in 1986. The four home-field losses were by a total of 10 points. 
Greg Guffey 
Football Notebook 


"They raised me," Holtz said. 
Some thoughts on going through the tunnel one last time: 
Tri-captain Mark Green: "I remember the first day, the first game against Michigan State. You could look up and see the stands full, the glowing gold helmets and the band playing loudly. I'm glad about the situation. I can't think of a better way to go out." 
Tri-captain Andy Heck: "The four years have certainly gone by fast. It really hasn't hit home. I don't get real emotional about these things. I just want to be 10-0." 
Holtz says the Irish kicking game will be back at full strength against the Nittany Lions after a series of changes in the past few games. 
Reggie Ho will handle the field goals and extra points, Billy Hackett the kickoffs and Jim Sexton the punting chores. 
"We're back again," Holtz said of the kicking game. "We've got Hackett straight and Reg straight." 
Injuries shouldn't be a big problem for the Irish in Saturday's game. 
Offensive guard Tim Grunhard rested Thursday as did fullbacks Anthony Johnson and Braxston Banks. All three should be able to play against Penn State. Freshman tight end Derek Brown has been sidelined throughout the week with a case of the flu and freshman running back Rod Culver is nursing a sore shoulder. 
In another related item, offensive lineman Justin Hall is making a speedy recovery from a broken leg and may be in action as early as the Southern California contest. 



