Cooling off
Etc.: New weekend edition 
Showers and thunderstorms today. High in the low to mid 60s. Much cooler tonight and Saturday with showers possi­

/VIEWPOINT: Monk on Bookstore 

ble. 




Sandinistas and Contras call truce 


Junior Chris Sullivan relaxes with a Sports Illustrated  temperatures bring students back outside to do their  
article about Bears linebacker Otis Wilson while care- reading.  
fully balanced in his Cavanaugh window. The warmer  



Assailant at 02 lot will be tried as an adult, faces jail 
By MICHELLE DALL Frazier is being charged with a juvenile, "the sentence would Copy Editor Class A felony attempted rape, be much less severe," said Class C felony battery, and Barnes. If convicted, Frazier The case against Harold Class B felony criminal con­may have spent time in a Leroy Frazier, Jr., accused of finement. juvenile home or served a assaulting a female Notre As an adult, Frazier will face much shorter prison sentence. Dame student in the D-2 imprisonment if convicted. The The victim of the assault was parking lot on Feb. 7, will be maximum sentence for at­attacked at knife-point at waived to an adult court, tempted rape is 20 to 50 years, around 5 p.m. on Feb. 7. Secur­County Prosecutor Michael battery, two to eight years, and ity officers, working in con­Barnes said Wednesday. criminal confinement, six to 20 junction with the Indiana state 
Frazier, a Edwardsburg, years. police, the Elkhart county and Mich. resident, will be tried as "The case will now be moved city police and the St. Joseph an adult, despite the fact he is to an upper court" to continue county police, arrested Frazier still 17, it was decided at a proceedings, said Barnes. hearing on Wednesday. If the suspect were tried as see ASSAULT, page 6 

Diet, lifespan link found at ND 
ByKIMBERLYTRENNER sium March 27 to March 30 at said. These areas include en­Senior Staff Reporter Notre Dame. docrinology, anatomy, the "The Lobund Aging Project brain, and gastrointestinal 
"There is no question that is a four year study supported functions. diet has a direct relationship to by the Retirement Research "Half of each group of rats aging," said Professor Morris Foundation of Chicago," said were fed the same diet reduced Pollard, Coleman Director of Pollard. by 30 percent. The restricted Lobund Laboratory at Notre "Researchers studied condi­animals had a significant in­Dame. tions in conventional and crease in life and a lower in­
germfree rats, all of the same cidence of disease," said Pol­
Preliminary findings in what sex and strain," said Pollard. lard. is believed to be the largest and "A consortium of 26 inves­"Since 1935 the reduction of most comprehensive study of tigators from the United States diet has been linked to aging," the effects of restricted diet on and Canada examined tissues he said. "What we are trying aging in laboratory animals in the aging animals according will be presented at a sympo-to their areas of expertise," he see AGING, page 4 

Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua Nicaraguans on Thursday reacted with hope tempered by memories of war to an agree­ment between the government and Contra rebels that may bring peace for the first time since 1981. 
Both sides kept their guns silent by mutual consent. A business leader said the cease­fire accord signed Wednesday night was a miracle. 
During three days of negotia­tions in a border town that resulted in an agreement Wed­nesday night, both sides had said it was the last chance for peace in Nicaragua. The for­mal cease-fire is to begin April 1. 
Washington reaction, page 7 
Virgilio Godoy, president of the opposition Independent Liberal Party, said Thursday: "I believe that the agreement is a hope. It is not a question of saying now who won and who lost in the agreement, but that Nicaragua and thousands of mothers who have sons in the war won." 
Alonso Moreno, who owns a shoe store and has three nep­hews in the army, said: "This is the most important thing that has occurred since 1979 when the Somoza dictatorship was overthrown." 
In a broadcast Thursday, the rebel Radio Liberacion said, "The (Nicaraguan) Resistance has taken an initial step to end the hostilities in Nicaragua, a very significant step." 
El Nuevo Diario, a pro­government newspaper, asked a question in its banner head­line: "Cease Fire! Peace Ex­plodes?" 
Enrique Bolanos, president of the private enterprise coun­cil and staunch government critic, called the pact "a miracle," and added: "Per­haps the Sandinista Front will finally comply with its word." 
During the negotiations at Sapoa, on the Costa Rican bor­der 90 miles south of Managua, President Daniel Ortega made a suprise visit and said it was time "to bury once and for all the military confrontation." 
Rebel leader Alfredo Cesar told journalists at the meeting: "It is not just a chance to achieve peace and harmony, but the only chance." 
Leaders of the Sandinistas and the U.S.-sponsored Contras stood side-by-side on a makes­hift dais Wednesday night in Sapoa, sang the national an­them together and signed the cease-fire. 
During the three days, both sides retreated from hard pos­itions, especially the Sandinis­tas, who stand to gain the most from an agreement that would virtually end the insurgency. 
The Contras agreed not to ac­
cept military aid and to receive 
non-lethal supplies exclusively 
from neutral organizations. 

ND students learn about honor codes at meeting 
By DAN MURPHY many of the honor codes Staff Reporter were based on tradition. "Some honor codes are over 
Student support is the big­100 years old. We're trying gest problem facing the in­to start something now (at stitution of an honor code at Notre Dame) and if it works Notre Dame, according to we'll have to form our own freshman Kristen Stamile, traditions." She thinks edu­one of three Notre Dame stu­cation is the key to gaining dents who attended an honor student support necessary code conference at Prince­establishing an honor code ton University March 3 system at Notre Dame. through March 5. Stamile said that during 
The three-day conference the conference she ex­brought together represen­amined formats for student tatives from 36 colleges to academic dishonesty discuss the problems and hearings, problems concern­benefits of adopting and ing transfer students, and maintaining an honor code. the definition of dishonesty. 
"I think that most of the The creation of an honor student body here is not for code at Notre Dame is an honor code at all, and "something that must be many teachers seem scorn­handled sequentially,'' said ful about it" said Stamile. Associate Professor Kevin 
She heard "mostly suc­Misiewicz, Notre Dame's cess stories" from students faculty representative at the of colleges employing honor code systems, and noted that see HONOR, page 8 
--~-­

page 2 The Observer Friday, March 25, 1988 



In Brief 
Officers for the Law School's chapter of the Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy studies were recently elected for the 1988-89 school year. Norbert Hart was chosen as president; Lester Syren, vice-president; Edward White, secretary; and Daniel Squires, treasurer. 
The Observer 

Of Interest 
Model UN General Assembly meeting will be Saturday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. Protec­tionism, Palestinian Homeland, Panama, and the Inter­national Drug Crisis will be discussed. Call Chris at 283­1466 with any questions. -The Observer 
A Jump Rope-a-thon sponsored by the Student Government to raise money for the American Heart As­sociation will be held in Stepan Center at 1:30 p.m. on Sunday. For more information contact Steffanie Keller at 283-3617 or 239-7668. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball will begin today and continue through April 24. Accordingly, the Bookstore Lot, Lyons Court Lot and Stepan Court parking area will be closed to parking from March 25 to April 24. Vehicles with A-7 decals may park in the South Dining Hall Lot (A10), the Infirmary Lot (A15) or the Laundry Lot (A-9). Vehicles with "B" decals may park in the Stepan Lot (B-16) or the East FacultyStaff Lots (B-2--across from Hesburgh Li­brary). Those with "Construction" parking decals may park in White Field, just north of the D-2 lot (east of the East Gate entrance to campus). If you have questions about where to park, please contact Security at 239-5555 or 283-4444. -The Observer 
Today is the last in the Friday Forum Series on the Notre Dame academic honor code. The talk will be at 
12: 15 at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Black Law Student Association's Alumni Weekend will be this weekend. See the BLSA bulletin board in the basement of the Law School for the schedule of events. ­
The Observer 
The InternationalFestivalwillbeheldonSaturday 
at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Engineers' Week concludes today with Fluid Friday. Ev~nts include an ice cream social at 2 p.m. in the engin­~rmg student ce~ter, follo~ed ~y the faculty!Senior recep­tion at_4:30 p.m. m the Umvers1ty Club. -The Observer 
GleeClubticketsfortonight'sconcertwillbeavailable at the door beginning at 8:05p.m. based on availability. -The Observer 
A Lenten Twilight Retreatfor women will be tonight from 6:30 to 11 p.m. at 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. For information call 288-2665. -The Observer 
CILA is sponsoring an all day workshop tomorrow beginning _at 9 a.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The workshop lS run by Network, a Catholic social justice lob­by, and will deal with the platforms of the 1988 Presidential Candidates along with practical information on how to effectively participate in the '88 elections. -The Observer 
Human Rights internship application deadline has been extendoo to Monday, Mar. 28. Return applications to 121 Decio. -The Observer 
Steve Daley, candidate for Governor of Indiana, will speak to College Democrats and all other interested stu­dents and faculty Monday at noon in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
~aro_slav_ Pelikan, Yale University theologian and hiStorian will speak at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium on Tuesday, March 29 at 8 p.m. on "A Church Between East and West: The Millennium of the Ukranian Experi­ment." -The Observer 
--&-=Y=-'-'
---Ih-. e-Obse.----~~r-----
Deoign Editor .................... Joe Zadrozny ...............•............................ Jenn Conlon Deoign Ao.tiotant ............... Sean Buckley NO Day Editor .................. Janet Herold TJIP"oeltero ...................... Jolm Mullaney Photographer................... Suzanne Poch ...................................... Paul D. Jaebon Etc. Copy Editor............... Matt Murphy New• Editor ....................... Tim O'Keefe Etc. Layout ........................... Moira Fox Copy Editor ................... Matt Gallagher Etc. Editor• ........................... John Blasi Sporto Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen ...................................... Triah Chambers 
Vieoopoint CopJI Editor ..... Patrick Zande Etc. Deoign ...................... LaiD'a Stanton TJIPUII ................................. Will Zamer 
ne o.-.w (USPS 599 l...tOOO) is published Monday throuah Friday exccp! duriq exam and vacation periods. ne o..r.er is published by !be students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptions may be purebaa­ed for S40 per year IU' per semester) by writina De u..er--, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dule, IDdiaDa .t6556. 
ne Ollllner is • member of ne "-ddiled ..... All reproduction riahts are reserved. 


Media stresses style at expense of substance 

"Who's in first?" "That's right." "What?" "He's running second." "Who's running second?" "No, Who's in first, What's running second." 
This old Abbott and Costello comedy routine sounds like the present-day presidential cam­paign. 
Today's media has lost focus on what's im­portant on the campaign trail. All its attention now goes to the two big Ps --the polls and the personalities. 
Although personalities influence many voters' decisions, the media floods the public with personal flaws, rather than concentrating on the issues. Candidates are constantly categorized by the media with short one-liners, such as Bush the Wimp, Dole the Hatchet Man, or Robertson the TV evangelist. In the media's search for easy quips, they have distorted what the public really needs to know. 
Don't misunderstand me. Personalities do have their role in politics. It is true that Ronald Reagan's personality had a lot to do with his election, but does that make him a good pres­ident? Not in and of itself. Voters need to know how a candidate thinks and what kind of person he is. Mter all, voters wish to elect someone who has ideas and aspirations similar to their own. 
The media must take more responsibility for elections because their coverage of the cam­paign affects peoples' votes. Most people make their decision on a candidate based on what they read in the newspaper and what they see on T.V. 
The media needs to cover the whole campaign objectively; When the nightly news only shows us the one-liners from a speech or debate, rather than the overall tone and content, the public is denied one of the more important aspects of the campaign, the platforms. 
Recall the Dan RatheliGeorge Bush con­frontation. Rather attacked Bush for not dis­closing more information about the Iran-Contra affair. Bush counterattacked with, "How would you like it, Dan, if your entire career was judged by the eight minutes that you walked off the set?" It's too bad that political interviews that were meant to inform the people have to turn into vicious, personal attacks. Bush's comm­ment describes how unfair the media's coverage of the campaign can be. On the eve­ning news, we rarely hear much about a can­didate's views. Rather, we are given the quips of a debate or interview. 
Politicians are not perfect, and they some­times say things they shouldn't, like Dole's com­ment to Bush on NBC News several weeks ago: "Stop lying about my record!" 
These sharp comments do need reporting, be­cause they do say something about the can­didate's personality, but unfortunately they overshadow all the other relevent information of the campaign. 
Polls are used as the standings of a presiden­tial race. Almost every newspaper, network, and campaign staff conducts their own polls, yet many have different results. Earlier this week, I heard on the news that if Dukakis and Bush were nominated, the former would win. That's a pretty tough call to make eight months before the election, especially since the Demo­cratic race is so close. 
Polls, personalities and comic lines are great, but why doesn't the media report more of what we want to hear?' We want to know what the candidates are likely to do about Central America, the Middle East, the economy, the abortion issue and others, but they don't seem to want to tell us. 
Now that the delegates are being counted and the media can make their bar-graphed polls with caricatures of each candidate under their respective totals. But when a winner is finally crowned, and the pomp is over, the voters will be left asking "who's who?" 

PREGNANI' 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY' 
Gl.ND/SMC SPRING SPEAKER SERIES 
,.,._ 
PETER M. NARDI J
Pro feu or of Saclolog
( 
Pllzar College, Cellforn~o 
snMJNG ON 
"HOMOPHOBIA" 
1 PM--(SUNDIIY) MRIICH 27, 1988 611LIIIN LIFE SCIENCE BLDG. IIUDITORIUM, NOTIIE DRME UN IUEIIS ITY 
Sponsored by 611YS liND LESBIIINS liT NOTRE DIIME/ST. MIIIIY'S COLLEGE P.O. BON 194 NOTRE DIIME, IN 46556 

N T E R N A T 0 N A L 

A MULTICULTURAL VARIETY SHOW SATURDAY MARCH 26. 7:30PM WASHINGTON HALL FREE ADMISSION 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW MULTICULTURAL COUNCIL AND 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS ORGANIZATION
• 
f 
r 


-----~-------~----~-­
Friday, March 25, 1988 The Observer page 3 
--~­
North, Poindexter plead innocent to charges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Former na­tional security aides Lt. Col. Oliver North and John Poindex­ter and two businessmen pleaded innocent Thursday to charges they ran the Iran­Contra affair as a vast criminal conspiracy and defrauded the government of $17 million. 
One by one, the defendants were called before U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell at their arraignment, and asked by courtroom clerk Barbara Montgomery, "How do you wish to plead?" 
"Not guilty," replied Poin­dexter, President Reagan's former national security ad­viser, and North, a top assis­tant to Poindexter. 
"Not guilty, your honor," responded retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord and Albert Hakim, who controlled the money and procured the arms for the once-secret Iran­Contra operation. 
Opposition leader returns to Panama 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama­
A leading opposition figure returned from exile Thursday and rejoined an increasingly desperate struggle to topple Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. 
"We have but one objective: to get rid of Noriega and build reconciliation and democracy in Panama!" said Ricardo Arias Calderon, the president of the Christian Democratic Party, in an address to a chant­ing, cheering crowd of about 300 people who greeted his flight from Costa Rica. 
"I am profoundly moved to be back in my own land," he said. 
The return of Arias Calderon, considered a presidential aspirant in elections scheduled for May 1989, came on the fourth day of a nationwide gen­eral strike aimed at ousting Noriega, who is the head of the 15,000-member Defense Forces and is the power behind the ci­vilian government. 
Despite almost unanimous support for the strike by busi­ness and industry, Noriega remained defiant, saying Wed­nesday night his opponents at home and in the United States don't "have the capacity" to overthrow him. 
That feeling appeared to be shared by some strike leaders, who said it might take a revolt by fellow officers to remove Noriega as head of the Defense Forces. 
"There are growing pockets within the Defense Forces that are against Noriega," said Jose Mulino, an attorney and oppo­sition leader. "What we don't know is if they will act." 
But in his speech to a group of about 500 supporters, Noriega claimed the military was maintaining "its high moral and patriotic beliefs" despite a failed barracks coup last week. 
Eleven officers were ar­
rested in that foiled plot. 
Noriega dismissed more than 
a dozen officers and shifted the 
assignments of other key per­
sonnel. 

ND'61
ironwood wine and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquor 
(219) 272-7144 
1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
also renting for Fall 
2 Bedrooms completely furnished CALL 234-6647 
Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 
All four defendants were released on their personal recognizance and told to report weekly by telephone to a pre­trial agency. Although cri­minal defendants are often asked to surrender their pas­sports, Gesell said he would not impose that condition. 
Dressed in conservative business suits, the four men made their first appearance in court since a federal grand jury, convened by Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh 14 
--,·. 
,..~·~ .. -:_:; . 
t. . 
.. ~ 
Arkles Unite! 
months ago, handed down a 23­count indictment March 16. 
North, retiring as a Marine lieutenant colonel May 1, and Poindexter, a retired Navy rear admiral, embraced before the judge entered the crowded courtroom. 
The defendants are charged with conspiring to defraud the United States "by deceitfully ... organizing, directing and con­cealing" a program of support for the Nicaraguan Contra 
i ~ • . .. . j 
-· 
rebels at a time such assistance was banned. 
The indictment also said the defendants "knowingly did em­bezzle, steal and convert to their own use" part of the proceeds generated by the sale of weapons to Iran. 
Gesell set no trial date but said he would hold an early hearing to determine whether evidence gathered by Walsh is not tainted and therefore ad­missible. 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
As a part of their "Rites of Spring," Architec.ture stu­Lake. The students are looking forward to the up­dents listen to poetry and music near Saint Mary's coming Beaux Arts Ball. 
Gephardt to quit if no victory soon 
Associated Press 
Democrat Richard Gep­hardt, who has fallen on hard times since his Iowa victory 45 days ago, will quit the presiden­tial race unless he scores an upset victory in Michigan this weekend, aides said Thursday. George Bush, meanwhile, headed for Connecticut expect­ing to pad his huge lead on the GOP side. 
Gephardt said he'd made no decision to drop out, declaring, "My mother always told me to cross. one bridge at a time." But the scramble was already on to pick up supporters who 
~------------------~-------------------------.r.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;
~-::::.....____. >..~......._
ND AVE APTS• h ~ 
T ....­
Monday, Marc 28 ~ lf.)t
Library Auditorium lli1J®©hl@rnf00
SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AVAILABLE 
Dome tic P ll·cy Debate 
S 0 7 p.m. Featuring Panelists: 
Dr. Perry Arnold Head of Notre Dame Government Department 
Mr. Patrick Pierce Saint Mary's Government Department 
CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE South Bend's Historic Art Deco Train Station is a Great Place for Your Graduation Party. We have halls to accomodate 25 to 600 people. CALL 233-2876 
would be freed if he withdrew. 
"There's no question there are some union leaders who are now supporting Dick Gephardt who would find Paul Simon the most attractive of the alterna­tives," said Illinois Sen. Simon at an appearance in Kalamazoo. 
Simon,whoisinfourthplacelin the Democratic delegatecount, just ahead of Gephardt,
spoke of getting "back in the ballgame." Among the Republicans,
former Transportation Secre­tary Elizabeth Dole, wife of Bush's main rival, Sen. Bob 
Dole, said in Oshkosh, Wis., 

that her husband now has 




::1~ 
merely a "long shot" chance, but she added, "He's got the grit and determination needed to keep him in the running." 
She said neither she nor her 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AON~"""~· husband have discussed the 
possibility that one of them might be Bush's running mate for the general election. "I'm really not seeking to be on the ticket. I'm going 12 hours a day just trying to carry Bob's mes­sage," she said. 
Vice President Bush, holding a commanding lead in the bat­tle for Republican convention delegates, was traveling to Connecticut, saying he was taking nothing for granted in the primary there next Tues­day. 
page 4 


AIDS patient because there is no conclusive medical evidence on how the deadly dis­ease is spread, a judge ruled in a decision disclosed Thursday. 
Superior Court Judge Lawrence Waddington said in a 14-page decision that Jes­sica's Nail Salon could legally refuse to give Paul Jasperson a pedicure despite a West Hollywood ordinance banning AIDS discrimination. 
The ordinance "fails to respect the right not to be in­voluntarily exposed to a risk of personal harm," the judge said. The decision late Wednes­1986, appointment for a pedicure after employees over­heard him telling an acquaint­ance he had AIDS. The suit didn't seek damages, only a court-ordered pedicure. 
Jasperson's attorney, Gloria Allred, argued the salon's refusal violated a West Holly­wood ordinance that prohibits businesses from discriminat­ing against people with AIDS. 
But lawyers for Jessica Var­toughian, owner of Jessica's Salon, challenged the con­stitutionality of the West Holly­wood ordinance and argued 
The Observer 
self to the danger of death?" attorney Paul Geragos asked during the non-jury civil trial on behalf of Jessica's. "We're talking about self-protection and self-defense." 
Geragos said Thursday he was pleased with the decision. While an ordinance barring AIDS discrimination is fine, he said, requiring people to do something that threatens their life isn't. 
AIDS is caused by a virus that damages the body's im­mune system. 
UPS delivers babies now 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-It was a special delivery, even for workers of United Parcel Ser­vice. 
The package was an 8-pound baby boy born to Bob Turner, an UPS delivery driver, and his wife, Deanna. 
Unfortunately, Turner didn't make the delivery. The job went to his boss, Bloomington UPS supervisor Pem Lincoln. 
Mrs. Turner called UPS about 3:30p.m. Tuesday to say she was starting labor and asked that her husband be notified. 
Lincoln called back about 15 minutes later to say Turner would be home in 45 minutes. 
"She said that was fine," said Lincoln. "But the way she said it indicated to me that there was some concern." 
Another 15 minutes went by, and Lincoln called again. This time, Mrs. Turner said she needed to go to the hospital im­mediately. 
Lincoln rushed to the Turner home. While he was dialing an ambulance, the baby arrived. 
Lincoln, 47, the father of four and a grandfather of four, worked in a pediatrics ward in the Navy 25 years ago. 
Mrs. Turner and son Daniel Lee were taken by ambulance to Bloomington Hospital. 
They were discharged 
Thursday~ 
"Everybody is OK," Turner said Thursday. "I was very surprised. I thought she would have a quick delivery, but not that quick." 
Aging 
continued from page 1 
to do is slow (aging) down," said Pollard. "No one knows the mechanism of life exten­sion or disease reduction. We think this study will contribute substantially to a better under­standing of the mechanism of dietary restriction," he said. 
The diet is an all-vegetable, natural grain diet which is low in fat and reinforced with vitamins and minerals, said Pollard. The Notre Dame diet could be translated into a human diet, he said. It has been tested over many years and found to be excellent, he added. 
"We anticipate that (the study) will be applied to health in men and women," said Pol­lard. The findings of the study will be published in book form, he added. 
In addition to the project col­laborators, there are five inter­nationally recognized geron-
Friday, March 25, 1988 
tologists chairing the symposium sessions, said Pol­lard. These include Edward Masoro, professor and chair­man of the Department of Physiology at the University of Texas Health Science Center; Richard Weindruch of the Na­tional Institute on Aging's Nutrition Program; Joseph Meites, Department of Physi­ology, Michigan State Univer­sity; Peter Holt, chief of the Division of Gastroenterology at St. Luke's Hospital and the De­partment of Medicine at Co­lumbia University; and Morton Rothstein, professor of biolog­ical sciences at the State Uni­versity of New York in Buffalo. 
Dr. Brody of the University of Illinois will be speaking Sun­day afternoon on aging in the 20th and 21st centuries, said Pollard. All sessions will be held in the Center for Continu­ing Education. The symposium is being funded by the Retire­ment Research Foundation and The National Institute on Aging. 
When you finally finish War and Peace, asmall celebration NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION '88
is in order. 

2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, illinois 60208 
Please sendmy free copy of the Summer Session '88 catalog with financial aid and registration information. (Available mid-March) 
Name 
School Address 
City 
State ZIP 
Home Address 
City 
State ZIP 
Some, some summenime... Send the coupon or call 1-800·FINDS·NU (Inside illinois call312/491-4114) ss 3 
Friday, March 25, 1988 
The Observer 
page 5 

' .. ··~ ' ~-· ,~«,
: -..
Two more die in West Bank unrest 
Associated Press Israeli warplanes raided Pal­estinian guerrilla bases on the 
HEBRON, occupied West outskirts of Sidon for the Bank -Soldiers shot two Pales­second straight day. It was the tinians dead in street battles third Israeli air raid into 
Thursday after a night of Is­Lebanon in a week and the fifth raeli raids in which Arabs were this year. arrested and taken to schools Soldiers have rounded up at converted into detention least 700 Palestinians in the centers. past week, and about 3 000
' 
Seven Arabs were wounded . 
s~nce the rebellion began, in in confrontations in the occu­mghtly sweeps through vil­pied West Bank, including a 12-lages and refugee campsyear-old girl shot in the left leg aimed at removing leaders of in Tamoun, a village 10 miles the rebellion. west of Nablus, hospital offi­cials reported. Among those detained Wed­Thursday's deaths brought to nesday night and early109 the number of Palestinians Thursday were several men killed since the Arab rebellion believed responsible for the 
began Dec. 8 in the occupied latest Palestine Liberation Or­West Bank and Gaza Strip, ac­ganization leaflet, said Nahum cording to U.N. figures. One Is­Mendel, spokesman for the 
raeli soldier has been killed. Police Ministry. He would not Monsignor Michel Sabbah, identify them or say how many Roman Catholic patriarch of were arrested. 
Jerusalem, canceled the tradi­An Islamic official in Hebron tional Palm Sunday procession said about 200 imams -moslem from the biblical Mount of religious leaders had been ar­Olives to Jerusalem's Old City rested in the West Bank city because of continuing violence. this week. He said, on condition Ariel Sharon, the hawkish of anonymity, that most were 
former general who now is in­members of a fundamentalist Jaws V The Observer/Suzanne Poch 
dustry and trade minister, said group. Palestinians involved in the Many of those arrested were Freshman Kerri Owens does her laps during the someone is drowning has not yet been covered in rebellion might be expelled taken to half a dozen Arab lifesaving section of her physical education class. class. from Israel and the territories schools the army converted The availability of a scuba mask and snorkle when it has occupied since the 1967 into temporary detention Middle East war. centers~ 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communlcafion &Theatre presents 
Chemical weapons used by Iraq 
Associated Press sion to conflicts in the Middle warplanes have droppedEast. Their use, but not their chemical bombs on several vil­NICOSIA, Cyprus -The production, is banned under a lages in northwestern Iraq
slaughter of Kurdish civilians 1925 Geneva agreement. 
after Iranian forces overran 
in Iraqi poison gas attacks and The London-based Jane's the Kurdish area in a groundIranian warnings of retaliation Defens'e Weekly noted in a offensive. underscore the growth of the recent study that the use of Western correspondents inchemical warfare arsenals of poison and nerve gases since 
Iran have reported evidence to major Middle East powers. 1984 in the 7-year-old Iran-Iraq substantiate Iranian claims Despite efforts to curb such war has "changed the rules of that 5,000 Iraqi Kurds were weapons, their spread has 
war in the Middle East.'' killed and another 5,000 injured
added a dangerous new dimen-Tehran charges that Iraqi when Iraqi warplanes dropped Ode to Webs 
chemical bombs on towns cap­This is Amy Frances Weber 
tured by the Iranians in north­She has fluffy, red hair. 
east Iraq last week. She's from B.P., of course, 
Nicholas Beeston of The So you should be scared. 
Times of London reported from Keenan Hall loves ol' Webs, 
Halabja, one of the towns, that 'cause she's a silly goose, 
"hundreds and possibly And we really don't care 
thousands" of the Kurds, who if she smells like a moose. 
have been rebelling againstWe hope to lie in her "Bed of 
Baghdad for years, were killed. Passion," And dream of her curls 
Hashemi Rafsanjani,
in a "perverted fashion." 
speaker of Iran's Parliament 
About her sexy legs,and her 
and Ayatollah Ruhollah 
aerobic flair, All complemented by 
Khomeini's representative on
her excessive nostril hair. 
the Supreme Defense Council,
But we love you Amy Weber 
warned Thursday that Iran will
direction and production design March 241h lhru 271h at 8 pm 
even more than peanut butter and 
be forced to use chemical
ROBERT GRAHAM SMALL Haggar Parlor/Saint Mary's College 
jelly, But you're even better cos 
weapons in retaliation if the

you're not as smelly. 
Iraqi attacks continue.
Happy Birthday! from the 
The intensity of Tehran's ac­
Kingdom of Keenan 
cusations against Iraq in recent days has heightened fears that the Iranians may be
**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
seeking to justify using chemi­cal weapons of their own. 
U.S. State Department
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
Spokesman Charles Redman 1 said Wednesday there was evidence Iran may already
1. REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­
have fired chemical artillery shells into Iraq. He declined to
Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially 
elaborate. 
Iraq, a signatory to the 1925 agreement, has been con­
recognized organization on campus. 
2. APPLY FOR FUNDING. 
demned by the United Nation four times since 1984 for using
3. APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 
chemical weapons. The 
Iranians claim the Iraqis have launched around 100 chemical attacks in that period, mainly against Iranian troops. 
4. ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 
DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: 
Iranian-backed Kurdish guerrillas fighting the Bagh­dad regime for autonomy have 
FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. 
pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 
claimed scores of such attacks on their villages in the last
315 LaFortune Student Center 
year. 


page 6 The Observer Friday, March 25, 1988 
Taking the New McDonald's a 
pill does not r big hit in Yugoslavia
increase risk Associated Press in Belgrade has created such a sensation as this one today," BELGRADE, Yugoslavia -one policeman said. 
of cancer 
Communism suffered its first "I think this restaurant has
Associated Press Big Mac attack Thursday as no competition in Belgrade," McDonald's opened a restau­said Milica Danic, a housewifeCHICAGO -Long-term use 
rant in Yugoslavia, and police who treated her son to a
of birth-control pills, even by 
were called in to keep custom­cheeseburger. "It is much 
women who began taking them 
ers from getting too unruly un­cleaner, the service is faster,
as teen-agers, does not in­
der the golden arches. the interior is nicer and it is not 
crease the risk of breast can­
too expensive."
cer, a new study of more than 
"I just wanted to taste The Belgrade media have
9,000 women concludes. 
genuine American suggested that the success of
The findings were reported in 
hamburgers,'' said Milica McDonald's in Yugoslavia
Friday's Journal of the Ameri­
Nikolic, a high school student depends on its acceptance by
can Medical Association. 
who waited for three hours to citizens long accustomed to a
Previous studies disagreed 
taste her first Big Mac. hamburger-like fast-food dish 
over whether the pill increases 
· People curiously examined called the Pljeskavica: ground 
the risk of breast cancer for wo­
the renovated restaurant's pork and onions on a bun.
men through middle age. Some 
plush interior and the back-lit "In fact, this is a clash be­
researchers have suggested 
signs depicting the tween the Big Mac and Pljes­
the conflicting conclusions 
hamburgers, french fries, milk kavica," said Vesna Milosevic, 
might be the result of a long­
shakes and other fare · more an official of Genex, a Yugos­
term latent effect from ea:ly 
familiar in the West. It also fea­lav state-run enterprise that 
use. 
tured amber-colored tables has contracted a joint venture
"But we found no direct 
and floors, pastel-colored up­agreement with McDonald's. 
human evidence for such a 
holstery, modern art paintings "Our aim is not to destroy
latent effect," said Dr. Bruce 
and discreet illumination. the Pljeskavica on the Yugos­
Stadel, one of the study's aut­
The fast-food outlet, located lav market," said Predrag
hors. Stadel was at the National 
on a downtown square, had Dostanic, managing director of
Institutes of Health when the 
drawn crowds in recent days, the Genex-McDonald's. 
study was conducted and now 
and they began gathering long "We want to change customs 
is with the Food and Drug Ad­
before it opened Thursday. of the local people used to com­
ministration in Bethesda, Md. 
Police kept watch on the lines pletly different eating habits,'' 
"This was a very, very large 
of customers snaking around he said. Lounging at tables for 
study . . . and these data are 
the block, and they regulated a long time after a finished
immensely reassuring," he 
the number who came inside to meal will draw a warning.
said. 
avoid overcrowding. Smoking is forbidden, and al­
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
You're in the Army now 
Juniors Jim Chapple and Steve Connor, members of Notre Dame's Army ROTC, prepare for weekend exercises at Camp Atterbury in southern Indiana. 

S&Ls suffer record losses 
Associated Press 1987 pushed the industry's red league of Savings lnsitutions, ink for the year to a record $6.8 the industry's largest trade 
WASHINGTON -The billion. group. savings and loan industry, That was nearly 50 percent The nation's 3,147 federally drained by insolvent institu­greater than the previous post­insured S&Ls lost $1.8 billion in tions in Texas, last year re­Depression record of $4.6 bil­the third quarter of last year corded its worst loss since the lion, set in 1981, when the prime and $1.9 billion in the spring. Great Depression, the govern­lending rate soared above 20 They earned $100 million in the ment said Thursday. percent. first three months of the year 
The Federal Home Loan "I hope it's the worst we'll and had a modest $132 million Bank Board said a $3.2 billion ever see," said James Christi­profit for all of 1986. loss in the last three months of an, chief economist of the U.S. 
Assault 
+ Happy : 
continued from page 1 
: 19th • 
Feb. 24 in Elkhart County. Using information obtained 
: Birthday :
from the victim and an auto dealer, detectives were able to trace the suspect's vehicle. : Bridget Mickus: 
The victim, who did not ap­pear at the hearing, said, "I haven't seen the 'guy (Frazier) 
since the attack." Although she •+ Love from •+ 
was at the courthouse at the 
+ Mom, Dad, :
time of the hearing, she was not asked to testify. : and Colleen + 
Barnes said the trial will probably take place in June at the earliest. 
•. ...: 
"No opening of a restaurant cohol will not be served. 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken. for 
Caps and Gov1ns 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30 
Between 9:00 -4:00 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
------~·-~------~-------~---~-------------­
Friday, March 25, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Washington reactions to ceasefi re positive 
Associated Press 
ons shipments to the leftist Managua government. 
WASHINGTON -Congress House Speaker Jim Wright,and the Reagan administration D-Texas, said the Nicaraguanwarmly welcomed a agreement marks "a newNicaraguan cease-fire agree­chapter in the unhappy history ment Thursday, and some offi­of that war-torn country" andcials said it could usher in a vowed to move ahead before new era of bipartisan U.S. 
Easter on a package ofpolicymaking on Central humanitarian aid for the Con­America. 
tra rebels.
"We consider this agreement to be an important step for­"This is a bad day for the ward," said Secretary of State cynics," said Sen. ChristopherGeorge Shultz, who added that Dodd, D-Conn., a leading Con­the truce leaves "no excuse" tra opponent. "A piece of paper
for continued Soviet-bloc weap-has been signed by people who 
Jessica's rescuers argue over movie rights 
what took place could ever be
Associated Press 
put on the screen," said Peeler, 
MIDLAND, Texas -For 58 president of Midland's hours after a toddler tumbled Airmaster Equipment Corp., into an abandoned well, which contributed drilling ma­hundreds of rescuers worked terials for the rescue. together to free her, but now The effort brought praise and an effort to bring their heroism a spotlight to Midland, an oil 
to television has divided them. town of 97,400 people in western 
Two groups -one mostly Texas. volunteer rescuers and the "It was a special event. other city officials -are There was so much effort, and negotiating separately with dif­everyone had their own story. ferent TV producers for a Maybe it should be kept special movie of the story that cap­like that," he said Thursday. tured the nation's attention as The Jessica McClure Res­it unfolded live on television. cuer's Association, a group of 
Both groups are awaiting the about 30 volunteers, is commit­endorsement of Chip and Cissy ted to a movie deal with Los McClure, whose 23-month-old Angeles producer Larry daughter Jessica became stuck Spivey, president of Highland in a 22-foot-deep well for 58 Communications Group, Inc. 
hours in October. The group has asked all res­
One volunteer rescuer, cuers to join them. Bruce Peeler, said he is remaining neutral \n the dis­
The association's president, pute. But he said he wonders 
Kragg Robinson, said 33 mem­whether the story could be told 
bers have signed a contract properly in any case. 
that includes an initial $200,000, "I am wondering if a unified plus future payments, to be group got together . . . if a divided among the member­
really true, accurate picture of 
ship. 


A fresco 
Every student's dream comes true as an English class meets outside near the War Memorial. Students and professors alike, when faced with warm, sunny 
many thought would never be able to sit down face to face." 
But the White House and some in Congress also said the accord, while a strong sign of new health for the regional peace process, rests heavily on promises of future moves by both sides that could prove dif­ficult. 
President Reagan, getting into his limousine after speak­ing to high school students in suburban Vienna, Va., was asked whether he thought the 
cease-fire agreement would hold up. "I don't know. We're looking carefully at it," he replied. 
"There is a lot of room for encouragement here, yes, but there's also a lot of room for skepticism, and I'm trying to b;tlance those two off," said White House spokesman Mar­lin F'itzwater. 
"We're beginning the process. We need to watch it. We've seen processes like this start before and fail," he said. 
"This seems like a more con­crete step, and there certainly reason to be hopeful. But I do not want to play down the skep­ticism side of it either because we are skeptical." 
Congressional leaders and the administration began con­ferring on a new package of aid to the Contras on Wednesday, and more meetings were scheduled for Monday. Wright said a vote could come later next week and food, clothing and medicine could begin flowing to the rebels by Easter. 
Dissolving checks a surprise for banks 
Zurawski of the Chicago Police 
Associated Press Thursday. 
Department's financial crimes 
A check clearinghouse said it 
division. Authorities also areCHICAGO -Checks treated has warned 142 banks to be on checking a report of a possible
with a chemical that causes the lookout for the dissolving them to disintegrate into con­checks, which may have an un­
dissolving check in Indiana, fetti shortly after being usual odor and feel oily. Zurawski said. 
"The one I've got in front ofdeposited have shown up in at The checks have turned up me looks like a handful of
least two states, costing banks at five or six banks in the nearly $70,000 since the begin­Chicago area and at one in Ten­
ashes," Zurawski said. ning of the year, police said nessee, said Capt. James The checks, supposedly drawn on personal accounts at banks in California and Ten­nessee, have been reported in about 12 incidents in recent weeks, costing banks about $70,000, he said. 

In most of the cases, someone would open a new account at a bank with a small amount of 
money and later make a larger deposit with a dissolving check. Later, the money would be withdrawn from the account 
T·SHIRTS 
SWEATS 
before the bank could learn that the second check was bogus. The check's decomposi­
AND MUCH MORE!! 
tion would leave little for evidence.
YOUR DESIGN SCREEN LEARN
PRINTED TO YOUR 
CPR,
SPECIFICATIONS.CAL 
PLEASE. 
Take a l1fesav1ng Red Crass CPR course. 
UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 
+American Red Cross
255-4239
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

~-----~---~
------~----~..--~---·--------·---~--..-,---· ~,.·~--­
page 8 The Observer Friday, March 25, 1988 
Three suicides in two weeks stuns Evansville school 
EVANSVILLE, Ind.-Police and psychological counselors met Thursday night with par­ents at Reitz High School fol­lowing the suicides of three stu­dents in the past two weeks. 
"It's a scary situation," said Patty Kelley, a senior at the school. "Even people who didn't know them are affected by it." 
Police were there to head off rumors about the deaths, said Vanderburgh County Sheriff Clarence Shepard. 
"There are a number of rumors going around about satanism and cults and things of this sort," Shepard said. "We have found nothing in any of the three that indicates any satanism or cult." 
The three victims were boys who knew each other and were in the same year in high school, the sheriff said. Two were Reitz sophomores, and the third was a former student who trans­fered to another school. 
The latest victim, Larry "J.J." Orth, 15, was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound at 6:30 Wednesday mor­ning. Orth had called friends to tell them he wouldn't be back at school, and the friends went to his home and found the vic­tim in his living room, along with a note indicating he was having family problems. 
Eric Sanders, 16 and also a Reitz student, died March 10; and Steven Schaefer, 15, who left last year, died March 13. 
"The last two appear to be copycats," Shepard said before the meeting. "But all three were immediate, personal, emotional problems with the young men. One was a boyfriend-girlfriend problem, 
and the others were tamuy 
problems." 
School officials acted quickly 
to prevent more "copycat 
suicides," said Susan 
McDowell, head of psychologi­
cal services for the Evansville­
Vanderburgh School Corpora­
tion. 
"It happens with one, and it 
kind of spreads," she said. 
"Kids are kind of impres­
sionable and they're easily in­
fluenced. And if they see that 
one of their friends has dealt 
with a problem that way, they 
may try to handle it the same 
way. They don't look at the long 
run." 
Six psychologists and two 
counselors were sent to the 
school of 1,350 students on Wed­
nesday to assist the four coun­
selors normally assigned to 
Reitz. The school corporation 
began a training program for 
Honor 
continued from page 1 
conference. The first step is discussing honesty and formu­lating a definition of an honor code, he said. The next step is finding out to what extent stu­dents want to be involved in an honor code system. 
Non-proctored exams and in­forming on peers are the two most controversial issues over the adoption of an honor code system, said Misiewicz. Both issues were addressed at the conference. 
"It is difficult for faculty members to give up the idea of proctoring exams" said Misiewicz. He said non­proctored exams place greater responsibility on students in a climate established for honesty. 
Informing on peers means reporting fellow students in­volved in academic dishonesty. This practice, also known as non-toleration, is often funda­mental to honor code systems and places additional responsi­bility on students, said Misiewicz. 
Non-toleration poses a diffi­staff in the fall that included education about the danger sig­nals evidenced by youngsters contemplating suicide, and a video tape program about a suicidal student. 
"Almost eight out of 10 kids who commit suicide will leave clues," McDowell said. "They may not talk about it, and typ­ically it's not as overt as telling someone what they're going to do, but they will leave signs of some sort, and that's why we've had our in-service (training) this year." 
The school was to begin a "buddy system" to pair new­comers with older students, and peer counseling groups headed by trained juniors and seniors to talk to troubled youngsters, said principal Christine Settle. 
cult dilemma for students, ac­cording to Associate Provost Father Oliver Williams. "Somehow loyalty has to take the backseat to integrity" he said. "It's not easy. Before you see the value of turning some­one in you have to see that there are high costs in not turning them in." 
Misiewicz thinks a period of education and growth is neces­sary for Notre Dame students to accept the responsibilities created by an honor code. He said, "It's not something that's there, it's an attitude that develops. It's countercultural in our society." 
Instituting an honor code at Notre Dame is a big challenge, said Misiewicz, but he thinks the University can apply its pride in athletics to academics. "We have to look at Notre Dame and find a way of ap­proaching an honor code given our heritage and tradition" he said. 
"I don't know what will hap­pen, but I think that's good" said Misiewicz. "This isn't an area where the administration says 'You must do such and such.' " 

!11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111!:
Ryan White, -­AIDS victim, ~ e?®rcP The Sophomore Class ~ is honored 
~ @~ Presents ~ 
in Omaha -­
Associated Press 
~ '\~~ ~ 
INDIANAPOLIS -Teen-age AIDS victim Ryan White will -­
-
attend "Ryan White Day" ac­­
tivities this week in Omaha, ­
-
Neb., and also will visit Council Bluffs, Iowa. ­
-
Ryan, 16, and his mother, ­
-
Jeanne White, will visit Father ­
-
Flanagan's Boys Town on Friday in Omaha before speak­­
-
ing at a forum on AIDS and ­
-
AIDS education, The In­­
-
dianapolis Star reported -­
Thursday. ­
In Council Bluffs, Ryan will visit a children's home. Ryan's efforts to attend 
~ ow -~ ­
school even though he carries the AIDS virus divided the ­community of Kokomo, Ind. 
In spite of national health of­---­
ficials' assurances, school offi­­
-
cials and worried parents -: March 29 at 8:00 pm. in Washington Hall -: 
weren't convinced that other 
: Purchase tickets at the Sophomore Class Office :
children would be safe sitting next to Ryan, who contracted 5 Benefits St. Hedwig's Outreach 5 AIDS through infected treat­-ADWORKS­
ments for hemophilia. ;RIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: 
Viewpoint
Friday, March 25, 1988 page 9 
•
Heed the VOICe of divestment 
Listen. It is still there. It is not on the front pages. It is not grabbing the cur­rent headlines. Perhaps, for our pur­poses, it is better that way or even for­gotten altogether. 
Marty Rodgers 
guest column 
Listen. It passes in the wind above 
the trees on our beautifully sculptured 
campus. It is not welcome here for it 
stains and tears at the moral fabric of 
our University. It rattles our buildings 
and destabilizes the ethical cor­
nerstones of this place we call our 
second home. It is the painful evidence 
that we are living and propagating a 
lie. It is a poignant reminder of our 
failure to hear the calling of Christ. 
Listen. Damn. As in Poe's "Telltale 
Heart," it is still there--constantly nag­
ging on our collective conscience. Be­
ckoning a response. Echoing. Rever­
berating. Resounding. Resiliant. 
Haunting. Maybe by our silence we 
shall silence the irritating noise which 
burdens us and which names us an ac­
complice to atrocious acts against 
humanity. Perhaps we may comfort 
our hypocritical souls by rationalizing 
that we are doing all we can by doing 
nothing at all. 
Listen. It is the cry of the children of 
God. It is the cry of the children of South 
Africa. Their irrepressible voices 
defying the weak muffler of selective 
divestment espoused by Father Wil­
liams and the Board of Trustees. As we 
stand in the symbolic shadow of the 
greatest matriarch this world has ever 
known, their lament underscores the 
glowing contradiction present between 
the social responsibility this Catholic 
University proclaims to have for the 
entire human family and its procras­
tination in dealing with the sin of apar­
theid. 
We can be silent for no longer for 
there comes a time when silence is 
nothing short of betrayal. Betrayal to 
the oppressed people of South Africa, 
to our mission, to ourselves and to the 
crucified Christ. 
We can no longer hide behind the veil 
of selective divestment. It simply does 
not work. Selective divestment is a 
morally vacuous position disguised as 
innocent, practical, bottom-line philos­
ophy. The current guidelines to which 
we adhere are a joke by which we seek 
to transfer and to avoid our social re­
sponsibility. Selective divestment 
Doonesbury 
makes a mockery of itself by asserting 
that we can maintain leverage within 
South Africa when the government has 
banned and-Or censored all anti­
apartheid organizations such as the 
United Democratic Front (UDF) and 
African National Congress (ANC). We 
are attempting to dismantle a bastion 
of brutality by noble, but frivolous prin­
ciples which the South African govern­
ment would ban. 
We must wake up and admit that our policy is just not working. Our policy of selective divestment is predicated on the Sullivan Principles which Sullivan himself has recently denounced. Would you stay on a plane if the chief engineer just grabbed a parachute and said that the plane is failing and won't reach its desired destination? As the Supreme Court came to recognize the error of its ways in Korematsu, Dred Scott, and Plessy where it had previously served to justify and augment the sins of rac­ism and prejudice, so too Notre Dame must rescind its current and equally erroneous stance regarding South Africa. 
As the Supreme Court realized that these precedents were incongruous with the Constitution--the living docu­ment upon which our nation is founded­-so too we must realize that our current policy of selective divestment must be reversed, for it is undermining the eth­ical matrices upon which the very con­struction of our University rests. 
Under the guise of selective divest­ment, Notre Dame has issued a hypocritical message which it shall prove to regret. Even the Holy Cross community and U.S. Catholic Bishops have realized that such policies do not work and have withdrawn their re­sources from the oppressive machinery of apartheid. 
One day, hopefully soon, Notre Dame will see that it has fallen short of the beatific calling of Christ and remove its investments. But when will that day of reckoning come? When will Notre Dame confess its sin and no longer wal­low in the valley of indecision and in­consistency? The words of Dr. Martin Luther King answer that question for us: 
"I know you are asking today, 'How long will it take?' I come to you this afternoon however difficult the mo­ment, however frustrating the hour, it will not be long, because truth pressed to earth will rise again. How long? Not long, because no lie can live forever. 
FCKJR MONTHS, FaR~ MllfT'S 7Ht ()IFFERENC&~ ANPHAvt 7HE FAMILY MOV!3 IN, 700! 7HtMORe 
How long? Not long, because you still reap what you sow. How long? Not long, because the arm of the moral universe is long but it blends towards justice." 
Listen. This Sunday, Palm Sunday, when you listen to the Passion of Christ, listen to the cries of the children of South Africa. This Sunday, when you reflect on the hypocritical sign of the Kiss of Judas and the betrayal of Christ, reflect also on our hypocritical sign of selective divestment and our betrayal of Christ, of our mission, and of our­selves. This Sunday when you pray, pray for the children of South Africa and pray that the inevitable day on which Notre Dame acknowledges it has walked an errant path will be soon. Truth is calling. Listen. 
Marty Rogers is a senior enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. 
P.O. Box Q 
Bookstore: an athletic tradition 
Dear Editor: 
One of the great traditions of Spring at Notre Dame is An Tostal Weekend and the related event called Bookstore Basketball. Over 600 teams are sched­uled to compete in this latter activity. For some, it is a lighthearted moment, with crazy costumes, a bit of self­mockery and a chance to participate in a special Notre Dame experience. For others, it is an opportunity for testing their skills against some of the better student athletes in the country. 
Unfortunately, there have been times in the recent past where the spirit of camaraderie and good times was marred by verbal displays and crowd behavior that suggested racial and eth­nic attitudes that are totally unaccep­table in this community. We are working hard on creating a more diverse student body here at Notre Dame. Next fall we will begin a year­long celebration of cultural diversity. Now is the time for each of us to commit ourself to this positive development. 
Racism is one of the great scourges in world affairs and in our national his­tory. There is no place at Notre Dame for comments or actions that display racial or ethnic insensitivity. I am con­fident that together we can celebrate this Rite of Spring in a proper Notre Dame fashion. Thank you for your help. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy President March 24, 1988 
South Africans wrongly depicted 
Dear Editor: 
The absurdity of Professor Peter Walshe's attack on President Reagan's South African policy is starkly revealed by his comments regarding the African National Congress. For those who may be unaware, the ANC is an extremely violent terrorist organization which is supported by the Soviet Union and its allies. Contrary to Professor Walshe's contention, the ANC's goal of a com­munist South Africa and the means which it employs are abhorred by the vast majority of black South Africans. Unfortunately, those blacks with the courage to speak out against the ANC are usually executed publicly by a bar­baric process known as "necklacing," which involves burning a person alive by igniting a gasoline-filled tire hung above his fettered body. The ANC has subjected numerous women and children "collaborators" to this in­human act. Yet, in spite of these well documented facts, Professor W alshe contends that the ANC and its "humane leaders," such as Nelson Mandela, are truly representative of the black citizens of South Africa. It is indeed tragic that leftists such as Professor Walshe are working so diligently to im­pose a brutal communist regime upon the people of South Africa. We can only hope that South Africa is spared the fate of nations such as Ethiopia and Angola, which are suffering from the 
disastrous  effects  of  communist  
takeovers.  
Ron Kunkel  

Cavanaugh Hall March 9, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
THAT NIGHT, Ht 5tNT FOR. H/5 FAMI~Y. 
ANP PAP -BRING toTS OFT~! 
l 
Quote of the Day 
"The only people who never fail are those who never try." 
llka Chase 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
·Editor-In-Chief ........................... .............. Chris Murphy BuslnN& Manager ................................ John Oxrider Managing Editor ..................................Chris Donnelly Adve!1ialng Dellign Manager ................... Molly Klllen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .............................. .............. Regie Coccia Advertillng Manager .. .. .... Und.l Goldechmidt News Editor...................................... Mm Mclaughlin Production Manager ....................... Bemadlltte Shllla VIewpoint Editor................................... Matt Slaughter Syatem4 Manager ............................ Mm Ridgeway
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ......................................... Marty Struen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of 
Accent Editor .............................................B4llh Healy Graphic Arta Manager ........................... Marga Brune
the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tut1on. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sllint M8fY'll Editor ............................Sandy Cerimele
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor ......................................... Michael Moran
Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the school community, and the free eKpression of vary1ng opinions 
Founded November3, 1966 
on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Denny's 
a culinary delight 
'Best Man': 
By MARK McLAUGHLIN and 
REGIS COCCIA 
Denny's Devotees 
D
enny's is the only place you can get Slammed and like it. That's Slam as in Grand Slam, one of the many reasonably priced meals available at this all-night venue two miles north of campus on Route 31. 
AFTER BAR ~ 
:.; x:;.-.-/:: ~";.:' ' 
The atmosphere of the place leaves a little to be desired. Mindless Muzak variations fill tht: airwaves, unless you're lucky · enough to hear Anthony the late night cook sing. He'll also offer opinions on Notre Dame football if you ask him. 
The decor is pseudo-wood formica and green plastic that appears on the seats, in the plant holders, and in the Astroturf shelf of the mirrored pie rack. The pictures on the wall look like cerebral cross sec­tions of an optimist's head, with clouds and brain tissue forming the strata. 
But the food is well worth put­ting up with the decor. Prices range from $.3 to $7 for entrees, most of which come with side dishes of veggies or salads. We got the Denny's Combo, which offers a large cheeseburger, french fries, and a huge garden salad for $4.05. This meal was quite filling, and not all that ex­pensive. 
The piece de resistance, though, is the Grand Slam Breakfast. The Mercedes of the morning meaL the Bentley of breakfast, the Rolls-Royce of repasts, the Slam includes two eggs any style, two plate-sized buttermilk pancakes, two strips of bacon, and two sausage links. Denny's people being the ac­comodating type, they will gra­ciously permit you to trade in sausage for bacon or vice versa. And all this for only $2.99? Believe it! 
The Grand Slam is so popular that a local cult has bloomed around the meal. Ask the 
Cavanaugh presents a timely political satire 
Old Spaghetti Works 
waitresses to tell you about the 22 people who piled out of a van once at 4:.30 a.m. to get 
Slammed. 
The menu offers many types of food, ranging from a steak and shrimp dinner to chili and cheese omelets to nachos su­preme to the Sicilian burger. The breakfast menu is the most extensive, and the cheapest. Some items are only available during the day, but others are 24-hour temptations for the tongue. 
No alcoholic beverages are sold at the Denny's here in South Bend, although the Den­ny's Pub has proven a popular spot in Florida. The soda served was in generously large glasses and had real ice cubes, not the crushed ice found in cheap diners. 
Getting water glasses refilled can be a problem, though, be­cause service late at night some­times comes up shorthanded. Although the very fr.iendly late night staff tries hard, large groups of people may find a lengthy wait for late night meals. 
But guests of Denny's are 
treated to entertainment pro­
vided by the steady stream of 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­
dents scurrying about the suspi­
ciously inexpensive Motel 6 
(without luggage --hmmm ...) 
next door. 
If you feel like deserting your 
confectionery morals for a day, 
you -:an indulge yourself in 
desserts like the sinfully deli­
cious Chocolate Decadence. 
Chocolate layer cake smothered 
in ice cream and hot fudge is 
the perfect ending to a great 
cheap meal. 
We have been told that the 
Denny's Grand Slam, with a side 
of hash browns and a large 
glass of O.J., is the perfect cure 
to late-night hangovers. Many 
people apparently think this, 
since a line often forms about 
2:.30 a.m. on weekends to 
sample the fare. 
If eating at Denny's is dieteti­
cally criminaL we'll be repeat 
offenders. 
SUSAN HRACH accent writer 
C
avanaugh Hall Productions has put together a fine cast of character actors for Gore Vidal's "The Best Man," and generated enough energy to make this play an enjoyable one to watch. As a political satire, 
PLAY REVIEW 
' :0:';.:: 
the plot follows rival presidential candidates' moral dilemmas in the heat of the race for nomina­tion at the party convention. 
SHEILA M.CULM accent writer 
}\ re you tired of going to the 1"\same restaurant every time your parents come in for a weekend? Are you sick of paying for overpriced meals when you're out on a date? Or, are you bored with the dining hall and with fast-food? The Old Spaghetti Works in downtown South Bend might just be the alternative you've been looking for. 
RESTAURANT " 
0. ;.: :-: 0 
The Old Spaghetti Works devotes itself to making fine Italian cusine at a price that won't drain your wallet. The homemade pastas come with a variety of sauces, and also keep with the Italian tradition of ser­ving generous portions.~ 
The atmosphere is casual. The restaurant, formerly part of an old Singer Sewing machine fac­tory has a decor reminiscent of the turn of the century. Ferns, antiques, and a train car that you can dine in all add to the effect. 
Allee Russell (Maggie McDonald), left, wife of a presidential hopeful, and Sue-Ellen Gamadge (Susan Elias) "Hustle with RusseD" In the photo at left. At right, the pair support Allee's husband Bill, played by Joe Markey, in "The Best Man." 
Although the candidates were fictitious, Gore Vidal threw past and present political figures into his tight dialogue. The candi­dates' parties went unmentioned, but from the clues, it wasn't Re· 
. publican. The writer didn't im­mediately win the audience's sympathy for his likeable intel­lectual candidate, William Russell (played by Joe Markey), but the more charasmatic but devlish Joseph cantwell (played by Matt Azer) aroused interest from the start. 
Susan Elias turned in a neat performance of the party 
The menu is predominantly 
Italian and for a good reason: 
that is what the Sphaghetti 
Works does best. Each table is 
given a bottomless basket of 
garlic bread to begin the meal. 
And if you still can't wait for the 
entree, the appetizers are a solu­
tion. The fried zucchini is a good 
choice. It is cut into large 
pieces, dipped in a tempura-like 
batter and deep fried. 
Each entree comes with a soup and salad. The soup is a robust homemade minestrone that tends to be spicy. The small dinner salad comes with your choice of dressing. The poppy seed dressing is recommended as it is not too sweet or sour. 
Then, as if you haven't eaten enough, the entree arrives. The pastas come with your choice of a marinara, meat, hunter's, alfredo, white clam, or red clam sauce. The hunter's sauce is different from the traditional spaghetti sauces. It is a brown sauce full of fresh vegetables and mixed with sweet, dry ver­mouth. The oven entrees include a homemade sausage lasagna that would fill even the largest stomach, ann a fresh eggplant socialite, annoying everyone appropriately. Also notable for good characterizations were Christopher Riordan as dying President Arthur Hockstader (the last "real hick" president), Martin Schubert as Major Sheldon Marcus, and Alicia Alley as Cantwell's bubbly Southern wife. On the whole, all major charac­ters played well and should prove even more enterta!ning for this weekend's performances. 
The opening-night jitters should be resolved by 

parmigiana which is baked and served on a bed of fettucini. The menu also features a variety of Italian sandwiches and homemade pizza. For those who have not yet had their fill, the Spaghetti Works offers some Italian desserts including spumoni, Italian ices, and can­nolis. 
The moderate prices, large portions and atmosphere make the Spaghetti Works a bargain. Entrees range in price from $5.75 for pasta with marinara sauce to $10.95 for the New York strip steak. There are daily dinner specials that cut the price of a specific entree by $1. Reservations are recommended for the weekends, but weekdays are typically not as crowded. A sign near the door recommends that dress be "casual but neat." 
The Old Spaghetti Works is an excellent alternative to the usual dining hall fare. The prices are right and the quality of both the food and the service are excel­lent. The Old Spaghetti Works is a tasty addition to the South Bend restaurant scene. 


ht's show. Energy level, ~h high in general, lagged 'les (the opening. for exam­but the complicated plot the audience's attention. e damper in this moral con­)ctween political forces is :xlstentlal question posed by lying president. Satirical gue ami pointed charac­ltions leave little room for sophy. The issues of life, 
1. and God are given pass­onsideration by Vidal, 1q the audience unresolved 1eedlessly confused. 10me script problems hurt "The Best Man," the Cavanaugh director and his cast and crew have not. Nick Rossi has coached some latent comedians into very appealing performers for this play, supported by strong actors--the two leads and Maggie MacDonald (playing Rus­sell's wife Alice) in particular. For early evening entertainment this weekend (curtain opens at 7:30 
p.m. today and tomorrow), this 
amateur acting company pro­vides good laughs and presents a play worth breaking anyone's Lenten resolution against the Hesburgh Library. 
1 Reinhold stars as a father who accidentally switches places with his ll "VVce Versa." 
----~--------------~-------------------------------~---~·~----~---. 
Friday, March 25, 1988 
Bridget's: an old favorite 
DAN GERLACH accent writer 
H
ome football and basketball games, SYR's, An Tostal are events that most Notre Dame students will fondly recall after graduation. I. however, will also remember the fun times I spent at Bridget McGuire's Filling Sta­tion, a.k.a. Bridget's, a.k.a. Dan's second home. 
BAR BEAT : 
:-:~ z W' : ' 
A scant five minute drive from the recesses of D-2 by 1979 or­ange Ford Pinto, Bridget's offers reasonably priced drink specials, a relaxed atmosphere, and op­portunities to meet lots of people from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. I prefer to park in the back, as I am that much closer to the Great American Hot Dog Stand for post-bar nourish­ment. 
Upon entering. I never fail to be greeted by my favorite South Bend policeman who asks for my ID and says things like, "Say, kid, is this really you?" and "Weren't you in here last night-­when do you study?" Once in­side, proceed straight ahead to the bar. This might take quite a bit of doing on crowded nights, which is why it is not such a bad Idea to frequent Bridget's on Mondays, Wednesdays, some Tuesdays and Thursdays--when everyone else is In the 'brar. 
Do not be discouraged; Bridget's bartenders keep things moving. although there are never enough of them. It's espe­cially a problem on weekends, and can get frustrating after a seemingly endless wait with thirsty Domers on each side. Upon ordering. be sure to flash a bill or two (this will catch the bartender's eye) and know what you want ("Two specials)" is my most frequent order.) Ordering two beers at a time can often prove to be a time-saver. 
Bridget's offers other activities as well. Pool playing is a big favorite, mainly because the pool table is smack dab in the middle of the bar. I must cau­tion you that their pool table has had more beer spilled on it than most breweries produce in a month, and pool sticks in the ribs can be quite painful when carrying beers back to your friends. 
The music is solid: you can always hear It--as long as you're within a one block radius. I warn against singing along with the tapes, because they often quit in the middle of songs, and sing­ing alone in a bar is quite em­barrassing. 
I highly recommend casual dress (nannel shirts and old jeans are preferable) as beer has a way of getting spilled on that new blouse or shirt. I also rec­ommend ordering specials: eighty-five cent Molsons on Thursdays, quarter beers on some Wednesdays (with a $2 cover) and ninety cent 16 oz. drafts on Mondays are all worthwhile bets. I personally miss the old fifty-five cent draft specials and the ninety cent vodka and grapefruit specials. 
Bridget's has begun to feature bands on occasion, giving yet another reason to stop by. Al­though It is by far and away my favorite, I warn you that Bridget's Is not for everyone, but on weeknights, It Is a fun place to relax and talk with your friends, while meeting new people at the bar or in line for the bathroom. Hopefully, I'll see you there Monday night; I'll be the one who looks like he's just come home. 
'Intimate Jazz' creates mood 
T
BETH HEALY accent writer he lights are low, the air is smokey and everyone in the Blue Wisp Club is ready for the sultry jazz tunes of the Steve Schmidt Trio jazz band to come out. sit down, and start playing the sounds that they're known for around Cincinnati. 
MUSIC ~, 
The goal of the Michiana Jazz Society, in association with WVPE FM88, is to recreate this type of informal jazz atmosphere. "In­timate Jazz" is the title of a se­ries of three concerts that will be held in South Bend with the Steve Scmidt Trio and a different featured artist each session. 
The Steve Schmidt Trio is a jazz band that makes its home in the Blue Wisp Club in Cincin­nati. The band has produced six albums and is well known in Cincinnati jazz cirles. The band's namessake, Steve Schmidt, plays the piano. He also used to play for Count Basic's Big Band. The bass player, Mike Sharfe, is es­pecially well known in Cincinnati. The band's drummer, John Von Ohlen, is the most well known member of the group. He played with Woodie Hermann's Big Band, as well as Stan Kenten. 
"Some people think that he's one of the best drummers in the world," said Dr. Philip Schneider of the Michiana Jazz Society. "When I was in Cincinnati I used to enjoy just sitting back and watching him play. It's a very subtle kind of playing." 
One of the reasons the Jazz society is bringing the band to Indiana is because Michiana is a very jazz-conscious community, shown by the high numbers of jazz festivals in the area, as well as the popularity of WVPE. 
"WVPE is a very high quality jazz station. Even Cincinnati doesn't have a station as jazz-oriented as Michiana, "commented Schneider. 
The first artist to be featured is guitarist Bruce Forman. He will be playing with The Steve Schmidt Trio on March 25 at the Erskine Club House in South Bend, from 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 
a.m. Tickets are available by mail. at Nightwinds Record Stroe, Record Connection and at the door for $15.00. 
... _

(-• I ~, ! ..-, "' ' •-._ ' 
suwcs• 
r-~~--------------------------~------~·~·---------­
Etc.
page 12 Friday, March 25, 1988 
A feast day for a lonely God 
J.loly Week Is at hand. What Homer, or Dostoevsky--could are eager to talk about," notes Image of Christ, honored as ping their small coins In the 
lido you make of the poor, have Invented? Opinions of Chekhov. An Anglican cleric the Lamb of God and the Suf­poor box, and the teenagers 
luckless Jew who dies on the Him become a part of theol­wrote of Jesus: If you have a fering Servant of Yahweh. pleased with their lives as 
Cross? A modem cynic once ogy, and theology could be flat, He isn't going to change What do you think of the Son young Jews. They were prob­
wrote: "They should have fed your excuse for dismissing Him the tire for you; but He'll sit of Man, whom Francis wor­ably shy with Him as He was 
Him to the lions. His followers as a lifeless abstraction. and chat with you while you're shipped as his Lord and shy with them. Knowing how would had a hard time making Oppressed by a trlumphalis­
changing the tire yourself. Savior? Are you afraid He Important they were, He must a religious symbol out of min­tic theology, Swinburne wrote: 
might move In on you with His have put truth in front of them 
cemeat." "Thou has conquered, 0 pale If you could talk to Him as grace, and try to make you-­so that they wouldn't be hurt If He had been judged guilty Galilean; the world has grown 
Christians are supposed to do inconveniently and against your by this world's lies. 
when they pray, He would will--a saint; and having Him as 
never lie to you; and He's so a friend, you might have Does the stock market close 
full of truth, He wouldn't allow naught beside such as wealth on Good Friday. It hardly mat­

Father Robert Griffin 
you to lie to yourself. "Yet was and fame? ters; at noontime during Lent, 
Letters to a Lonely God I sore adreacY Lest, having St. Ignatius Loyola, founder the churches in the financial Him"--as a friend--"1 must have of the Jesuits, so they say, districts of cities like New York naught beside," wrote Francis used to meet Francis xaviet are usually crowded with 
as a cattle , they would gray Thompson in the "Hound of when he was student at the workers from Wall Street, wor­have hanged Him; if He had all men abase them before you Heaven." This fear is why University of Paris. Loyola shipping the Prince of glory 
been convicted as a mobster, in spirit, and all knees bend, I believers keep Him at an arm's would unsettle that lad with his whom this world once 
He might have died in the kneel not, neither adore length for a lifetime. question: "What does It profit a crucified. Power brokers from 
electric chair. As an itinerant you...... 
Possibly the saint of the man to gain the world if he the most secular establish­rabbi accused of disturbing the e.e. cummings has a poem Church whom Jesus loves the loses his own soul?'' In the ments pay their homage to the peace in an obscure comer of which makes Him less cosmic: most Is Francis of Assist; yet end, Francis xavier was con­Son of the Most High who lived the Roman Empire, He was "no time ago'or else a life/ Jesus, In making Francis His verted, and became a great among us as a homeless street punished like a slave to whom walking In the darkr1 met christ all-time favorite, took none of missionary of the Jesuit order. person. no justice Is owed. jesus)my hearttflopped oveli" the joy from his youth. I'm not Loyola, and none of 
The Imperial governor before and lay stlllr-While he Francis has been popularized you are xaviers. To tell the Could you not pray to Him as whom He was tried offered the passed(astlose as I'm to as the original flower child. truth, I'm more worried about 
the lonely God? In that lonelyhowling mob on his doorstep a yoi.JI}'es close&1nade of noth­Francis, a nature poet and the loss of my own soul than I kingdom in which you paychoice between Christ and lngtexcept lonliness." 
singer of romances, was more am about losing yours. Is the taxes on your isolation, Good Barabbas. D.L. Sayers 
"My heart is a lonely hunter than a hippie; he was deeper pale Galilean waiting to sweep Friday is kept as the feast daydescribes Barabbas: "It does that hunts on a lonely hill." than that. Perhaps more than 
you off your feet in Holy Week of the lonely God. The Church's not do to think of him as just a Can lonely be a word that any other Christian we know of, with offers of sanctity that you hymn on that day is the 
'robber' or a 'murderer--we describes the Son of Man? 
he was in love with God's can't turn down? I don't think Lamentations: "Does it mean 
must think of him as a mem­Such vulnerabillty--lonliness world. He didn't want to own He's going to knock you off nothing to you, all that pass
ber of the I.R.A., arrested like that attributed to the long­any piece of the world; he only 
your horse on the road to by? Look and see if there be during the 'troubles'; with Jesus distance runner--makes Him 
wanted to take care of the Damascus. any sorrow like unto my sor­as the rival candidate pre­more humanly accessible than people who were in it. row.... " 
sented by the English govern­all the pomp and circumstance 
So close was he to Christ I see Him as the Gospels Under the rubric of loneli­ment for the kindly considera­which priestcraft has attributed 
that, at the end of his life, God picture Him: an observer watch­ness, which Holy Week high­tion of a Dublin crowd." to His divine existance. 
marked him in the flesh with ing people entering the lights, you may find that the What do you make of this "People who lead a lonely 
the wounds (or stigmata) of the Temple, loving the children God of love is waiting for you,loser from Galilee that no mere exlstance always have someth­
Passion, so that all ages could excited by their visit to a stranger whose attention He's writer--even Shakespeare, lnA on their minds that they 
appreciate him as the visible Jesusalem, the widows drop-been trying to get. 


SOB presents •• 
The annual 

_..... 
-Musical Competition! $300 Grand Prize!! I 

Saturday. March 26 9:00pm 

Friday,_ March 25, 1988 The Observer 
pago1~
Midwest Collegiate Conference Cougars were soundly defeated Dan Peltier, Pat Pesavento who batted just .212 with 21 RBI opponent, but the games will by Indiana last weekend, but and Tim Hufson. Peltier is last season, headed into Bethel 
Home I 
not count in the MCC standings. they do return 12letter-winners working on a 13-game hitting with a .429 average and 27 RBI
continued from page 20 
Butler is a member of the from a team that reached the streak and had a team-leading in his first 16 games. 
against Big Ten schools since MCC's Southern Division, NAIA District playoffs last batting average of .440 going beating Northwestern on May while the Irish play in the Nor­season. into Wednesday's "With people like Tim Hut­4, 1986. thern Division. doubleheader sweep of Bethel. son, Dan Peltier and Pat 
Saturday's doubleheader Chicago State began the The Irish have been Pesavento was batting .356 as Pesavento in our lineup, we with Butler will be Notre season ranked 35th among the bolstered all season by the of Wednesday and led the Irish heve the capability to score our Dame's first meeting with a nation's NAIA teams. The three-man hitting attack of with nine stolen bases. Hutson, share of runs," said Murphy. 
The 0.....Not,. Dame office, locaa.d on the third Hoof of LaFortune Stu· dent eent.r, .ccepta clualfled -'-"linG from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvough Frtdey. The 0.....Saint Milly's office, located on the third floor of H-ag.Collge Center, .ccepta c'-lfleda from 12:30p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frtdey. DMdllne for next~ clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda must
Classifieds 
be pnlpald, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five charKten per cky. 
JOHN H. BP 422 will never be the same. KATHY HINCHEY, Legs, Bimbo, Magg1e
gil out duh way! God, she's ugly! 
FISH KILLER! Have a smashing 18th B-DAYI 
'--No-Ttc_N_O_TIC_E_s____JIIL...._W_A_NT_E_D____J 
Kt-LAASP HUMAN RIGHTS APPLICA­HAPPY B'DAY WALTER STREICHER nan sauer for UMOC... Just when you 0: WHAT HAS 22 LEGS, 3 HORNS, TION deadline has been extended to love Jim
ONE VELVET SMOKING JACKET, AND Monday, March 28. Please return themthought it was sate 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT· SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS to vote tor a decent, upstanding SOUNDS LIKE PRINCE, ARETHA 277-1051 DAY. ' Counselors, 21 e. Coed. sleepaway American citizen.. sauer for FRANKLIN, JAMES BROWN, ANITA 
to 121 Decio ASAP!! It's TIM O'KEEFE'S 20th b-daylnan 
Wish him a happy one
................................................................ camp, Massachusetts Berksh~res. WSI, UMOC.. BAKER ETC., ETC.? A: FIND OUT TYPING AVAILABLE arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water FRIDAY AT THE ARCHITECTURE TRISH 
287-4082 sports, gymnastics, drama, pianoplay for AUDITORIUM AND SATURDAY AT Congrats on your new digs. And yes, shows. judo, photography, dance, com­that's mah tickeetll REGINA. 
world, she did go a day sans-pink. ,FORT MYER'S FLASHER, HAPPY 20TH!
................................................................ puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­
TRY TO KEEP IT IN YOUR PANTS
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING etry, guitar. radio, video, archery, year­HAPPY 21ST ELLEN!
272-8827 book, woodworking, AN and typist. Write: 
THE GROOVE Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, 
Things to avoid on your bday: !.shopping Happy 21st, Mary Faith! Happy 21st,
FRIDAY, BEAUX ARTS BALL 
rides 2.marrying Mary Faith! 21st,10707 call
Eastchester, NY or SATURDAY, REGINA BEACH PARTY, cart moped renters Happy Mary Faith! 
BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS 
Someone thinks you're very special!beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts 
E·x;;E·ii:r··..;:y·;;iN·a··..sE.iivicE':..·ciii::i. 91 4177G9406. 4-7, ALL WELCOME, AND NAZZ COM­3.Tony Macaroni 4.singlng Pump It Up 
on stage to a crowded bar 5.REDWIND 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. PETITION, 9pm, STEPAN KEMP 6.Girls trom,uh,LEWIS 7.vinegar
.....................wof1o~·;;t:iis .................... WINNETKA, tL lam !kg for daytime atu­Students: Sell your unwanted class Ride for 2 needed to NYCNorthern NJ

B.toilet seat naps 9.14 rounds of vodkadent aa oummer girl. 312-446-3171 books for $$ at Pandora's Books. BOB DON'T MISS THE GAME OF THE CEN· area Will share ex­
collins Live It up Bahama Mama! for Easter Break. Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week penses and driving. call 2282.
Scholastic Typing-Editing 8V81. TURY THE SCREAMING MIDGETS 256-3077 FROM HELL
233-2342 HAPPY 21ST SLAW I
NANNIES NEEDED -SOUTH FLORIDA vs. 
We'll do anything for pastel M & M'sl Nannlet>tltothera Hetpera, no fee, 1 SPRING BREAK-OUTSALEIApr. 15-17. FIVE WOMEN UNDER 5'3" (right Andrea?) 
Banahee Scammer 
Don't forget to acam&YAK (DO YOU year minimum commitment. 1-80D-9· Used Books 50-90% ott. New books 30% 
Monday, 6:15 at STEPAN "Never has Remember that akl trip?) Get reedy
NANNY-1 Modern Day Nannlea, Inc. off. Pandora's Books, BOB Howard off NO auch a compilation of ahortneas been HOLY ST. JUDE: Apostle and Martyr,
for aome sertoua BATIING & SHOTS! 
assembled one
Ave. 10-5:30 7 days/ week. 233-2342 on court of play. ·great In virtue, rich In miracles, Kinsman 
LOST/FOUND Ride needed to-from Baltimore for Whatever unfolda In thla game will be 
in Christ, Intercessor of all who invoke Easter.Leave 3'30 aft. Astrid-3194 one to remember. Whoever emerges Tonight Club 2311 
Sean & the Sun Kings your aid In time of need. I pray to you to 
as the victor will be the Messiah to
HELP!!! LOST WATCH A GRUEN THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS Live Music & $1 Molsensl use your God given powar to aid In my WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED ROCK CHIPSIII ahort people worldwide. This will be urgent petttlon. return
$1 cover 21 1.0. req. In I promise to SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. COME OUT AND PARTY WITH THE publish your Novena and to make your
Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-7466. a game that will go down In the lore of Mldgethood" -Brent Musberger
MAYBE LOST IN BRIGETS. VERY HIGH STONE HENGE ROMEOS AT CHIPS name known. Three Hail Marys and three Sell me some grad tixs. 3282 Steve 3'25 & 3'26. THE STONE HENGE
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF­To girl in red SAAB 9000 Wed. afternoon, Glorias. Say tor nine days, publication
WHAT BANDS DO YOU WANT TO
FERED IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ROMEOS AT CHIPS you are fantastic. Really would like to must be promised. Novena never fails! 
RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE Fri. WITH AWESOME DRINK SPE· COME TO CAMPUS ? Look tor the
ABOUT IT CALL 277 ·3226 meet you. If tree SAT. night, come to
Mar. 25 Can leave anytime Fri. or even CIALStttlf S.U.B. survey coming soon. 
NAZZ competition and see CATHOLICS THANK YOU ST. JUDE Ill Your answers Thurs. evening Will share expenses Call 
IN BAD STANDINGIII to my prayers guided me to the HolyHeidi 233-4176, evenings or early mor­FRANKLY, MY DEAR, WE DO GIVE A 
Wear black and whltefi(J) Your ad­Graille .. Novena NEVER fells Ill 
ning. ····I S.U.B. CARES I Tell us what movie mlrer(J)
LOST you want to see in the S.U.B. survey
DID YOU HERE THE NEWS? THE TONIGHT AT CLUB 2311ONE PAIR OF SILVER PRESCRIPTION 
Two students need ride to St. Louis for coming soon.
STONE HENGE ROMEOS WILL ROCK 
Peenmo and the Squankera SEAN & THE SUN KINGS
GLASSES IN A BLUE HARD CASE. Easter week-end. Will help pay tor ex­CHIPS. DON'T MISS THEM! MOLSENS
GREAT MUSIC & $1Word Tour 1988LOST AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME 
penses. Call -1046 or -4183. DAVID LEDERMAN coming to NO ? 
$1 COVER & 21 1.0. REO.
begins onBETWEEN THE ACC AND THE MAIN 
Need ride to Philly or D. C. area for Easter Well, maybe not --but S.U.B. wants to TONIGHT AT CLUB 2311
Tuesday March 29, 4 p.m. at Lyons 12CIRCLE. PLEASE.CALL JOE AT 4842. 
TELEMARKETERS -DAY & EVENING know who YOU want to see. Fill out the
break. 
Squankees bewaretSHIFTS. $4-HR. CALL AFTER 1 PM Will share expenses. Please call Tasha survey coming soon. 
Tonight at Club 2311 
683-0861. X404t. 
LIVE MUSIC & $1 MOLSENS
TOP 1 0 PLACES VISITED BY THE
LOST/l"AKENIII dark blue Allergan make· The Stonehenge Romeos would like to SEAN & THE SUN KINGS!! 
NEED RIDE TO COL. OHIO FOR WASHINGTON SEMINAR GROUP:
up bag from the lost and found box of thank all of y'all who helped us drink $1 cover & 21 I. D. req. 1at floor O'Shag. It was only missing tor International Festival Sat.,March 26,7:30 5. Roy Rogers CHIPS dry in February!!! The lirst time Tonight at Club 2311
EASTER BREAK! KATHY x4205 PM Washington Hall FREE ADMISSION 
6. Rayburn Bldg·... no, the Hart
an hour. yel 11 was lifted. What good are in 2 years. Let's do it again this weekend. 
Bldg... no, the Russell Bldg.
my cosmetics going to do you?! The re­
7. Duddlngtons.
Oh, you betcha!
placemenl cost Will be near $75. Call CHIPS FrVSat: The Stonehenge TO A GIRL WHO IS ABOUT TO TURN
B. Congressman Downey's office.
I need a ride to the Minneapolis-St. Paul
upon your sense of decency and please FOR SALE Romeos, $2.50 pitchers and tree autog­TWENTY-TWO, I WOULD LIKE TO EX·
9. Kennedy Center parking garage.
return the items to 1st floor O'Shag, the area tor Easter. I can leave as early as raphed Andy Gibb posters to the t st 500 TEND A SPECIAL BIRTHDY WISH TO
10. Brickskellar.
lost and found. or 112 Lyons/ £2903. Wed. afternoon and would like to return people through the door YOU! HOPE YOUR BIRTHDAY IS A Model 100 Portable Computer $267.00 Tuesday morning. I'll pay money, share
Thanks! 
'\'''''''''''''''''''''''''''' ........................... BLAST, SO DO NOT LET THE DAY 
Call 256-3077 expenses. etc. Call Kris at 4505. 
She's wild! She's crazy! She's ELLEN PAST FAST. HAVE A HAPPY SUB SOUTH PADRE TRIP--Two carry­NICHOLS and she's turning 21 this BIRTHDAY---MARYANN V. LIZ
SUPER SINGLE WATERBED WITH
on bags were left on the buses on the ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st KEN SCHWARTZ weekend! return tnp from South Padre. If you think DARK PINE BOOKCASE HEAD­Source Bank will finance your car pur­To the $10,000,000 SMC Hey you! Keep 
BOARD. GREAT CONDITION. IN­
they m1ght be yours, stop In al the SUB chase For more information call Ellen I WANT YOUR SAX Dear Marni, It's been a wonderlul week, up the good work and maybe I won't kill 
CLUDES HEATER & BUMPER PADS.
office (2nd floor of LaFortune), or call Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 and I'm sorry I have to go, but just think you afterall ... It would make me feel bed. 
$200 FIRM. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5
239-7757 --a month and a half and you're out ol
P.M. Bartles Imports BMVWMAZDMIW All Is It true that the wild woman of Hickory school! Then maybe you can come and ;:c;P..iii'R"ii.A.soNs To CELEBRATE EL· 
FOUND: PAIR OF MEN'S BLACK & ....................................................·~···· ...... JETIAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends Village turns 22 on Sat? Yes! It's a fact. visit me, hmm? Love, AI LEN NICHOLS' BIRTHDAY 1) she eats WHITE ICE SKATES AT STEPAN GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. April 30th Maryann Vassallo (Miss Fun to her 
dog beef jerky treats 2) everybody else (U Repair) BUY Propartlaa for back
CHEMISTRY. ALSO, PAIR OF LADY'S friends) Is about to be a year older & is doing it 3) those alabaster legs 4) she'll PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN BROWN TAXES! THE GREAT COKE OUT SUPPORT wiser so be sure to wish her a good one. GONG lend you her church shoes 5) her CASE. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND AT Info, REPO Llatlng 1·516-459-3546 THE BOYCOTI MARCH 22-25 HAPPY BIRTHDAY KILLER Love Duke SHOW GONG Bahamian tan B) she has no scruples 7) STEPAN IN ROOM 10S. GONG SHOW GONG 4A knows how to party 8) she Is Madon­
EXT H·794 24 Hro. THE GREAT COKE OUT MARCH 22-25 SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SHOW GONG SHOW na's body double 9) complimentary auto­A reward lor return of men's gold bracelet SUPPORT THE BOYCOTI GONG SHOW GONG graphed passport photos will be given
Fender bullet electric guitar wr hardshell SOPHOMORES Fender case. Like new, strap included. TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA
lost in or around lhe ACC on Sat. Mar. SHOW GONG out 1O) she feels the need . $175 or BO. Mike-x171B
19 a her the NCAA Tourney night games. Things We Won't Miss XXII: SATURDAY AT MITCHEL'S11:30-MS­GONG ................................................................ Please. if there Ia a God or a St. Jude. HTH's SINGLE & $8-COUPLE 
10 our favorite Dank1s-Happy 21st Kate, or a St. Anthony. then lei the finder call WITH ZETO AND THE HEET ONS AND 
1974 Olds delta at very very low price! 
Sandy, Malim, & Blanche me. as lhe bracelet was an 87 xmas gift A DJ THE GONG SHOW
contact Suresh 239 5273' 234 3250 
from my now deceased wife. Please call BUY TIX IN CLASS OFFICE THIS Pat 239 5096 or 289 9667 People Who Remind You They're From WEEK WASHINTON HALL 
Things We Won't Miss XXIII: TUESDAY MARCH 29 
THU-2:3()..4, FRI-1-4:30 TRANSPO TICKETS 
Jersey 8 P.M. 
PROVIDED 
I Alert 520ST Computer For Sale TICKETS ARE $21N THE SOPH. CLASS LOST AND FOUND I LOST a shell ear­Catch The Wave: Coke OFFICE, SECOND FLOOR, LAFOR­192k of ROM,
Includes 512k of RAM,HELP! HELP! Anyone with extra GRATE­ring between the Lyons parking lot and 
TUNE. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. RGB color monitor, external 3.5" diskFUL DEAD tickets tor either one of the
my room on March 5. I FOUND a scarl HEDWIG'S OUTREACH HOUSE.
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES drive, mouse driven desktop, PLUS overChicago shows, please call Scott at 3217 near the K of Con March 14. Please call 
SOPHOMORES $150 of FREE software!!!
or Erin at 1302. Will pay $$.
2880 or leave a note at 201 Lyons to For sale:Round trip airline tlcket(Amer. Call Mark at x1 5115
TOGATOGATOGATOGATOGATOGA 
identify the scarl or Jell me you found Wes(} :Chicago-Phoenix GONG BEST OFFER OVER $500
TOGA TOGA 
half of my favorite pa1r of earrings. SHOW GONG
Leave:J IMarchTH720A TICKETS NOW ONLY $!>SINGLE, Retum:4Apri1MOBOOA Call X /ISO GONG SHOW GONG
$&COUPLE PERSONALS SHOW GONG SHOW
FEATURING ZETO AND THE HEAT 
LOST· A gold timex watch with gold band Shoebox Greetings (a tiny little dlvl· GONG SHOW GONG
ONS on March 23 In lhe ACC we1ghtroom or slon of Hallmark) Is looking for humor AND A DJI SHOW GONG GOODBYE KENTUCKY!
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
the adjacent rear parking lot. PLEASE writers. find
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE You'll a challenging BUY TIX IN CLASS OFFICE THU(2:30-GONG 
contact Kirk al 289-6714 If you have career In creating Innovative graetlng 
4) FRI(1-4:30) BUSSES PROVIDED 
found it. cards that represent a fresh alterna­"I didn't really care about making the final tive to traditional humor cards. THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES JACK "GOOSE" GIVENS DAY eight. I just wanted u& 10 eliminate Ken­
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
AAJAX Shoebox offers a competitive salary, It begins on April 5 It's coming soon. tucky, so Stephan1o Thomas and Joanna a stimulating creative environment Watch this space lor details. Guiltinan wouldn'l tx able to brag about "DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY 
and one of the finest benefit programs the crooked program t11at'~ run in their
GOAT IS?" available. Juat write 10 (ten) Happy 18th Kathl Finally, no more hometown." humorous greeting card Ideas on a jai~quidbait. Love, PFC..WEBS JEN BONVECHIO Villanova coer 11 tlollle Massimino
FOR RENT IRISH MUSIC IRISH MUSICIII 
olngle sheet of paper and send them JEN BONVECHIO
JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS AT 
along with your resume and S.A.S.E. Didn't you ever learn how to knock?
STRAIGHT MESSAGE £2
LARGE N.D. AVE. HOME AVAIL. MR. CHRISTIAN'S DILEMA ON 
NEED RIDE ---one way to North Central FOR FALL TERM; LEASE PLUS PRAIRIE AVE NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA 
to: "You have let your work slide so far Editorial Manager To the TRAMP-New Jersey for Eesl"l ~ rCan leave as
that I can't give you any kind of good
DEPOSIT; 255-5852 evenlnga EVERY FRI AND SAT 8-12 
Shoebox Greetings Exactly what does the legal age altow­early as Wednesday at 1 p.m. -Willing
grade. I don't know what has happened F5Mall Drop No. 200 parieta1 breaking? Live it up on your 21st to help In dnv1ng and 1n expenses ­
to the student you used to be. Please Hallmark Carda, Inc. birthday with your -LADY Please call Magan •27fi4RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have 
get some help." Poat OHtce Box 419580
your carpet professionally cleaned by 
The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Off· 
D'JUAN FRANCISCO Hare's the longFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­campus negotiable. We also do furniture. 
Kansas City, MO 641416560 
Transfer student looking for cheap sub­WANDA THE FISH awaited personal you·re an a--1
let for summer months! call 3484 would like to wloh BRIAN BENOIT a 
BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-095&255-Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY 
3684 Jason, Mary, and Bnan Have tun ex·
Special Information: "How to Say No whale of a 21st birthday.
evade me the Healthy Way" Send $1 to LlfeCom,Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, changing on FLUIDS FRillAY. Congrats, 
2 houses available for faii,BB rent: 817 great in virtue and rich in miracle near It's GEEK WEEKI XOXOXO. Pat and Leo 
Box 1632, St. Cloud, MN 58302. TOP FIVE REASONS TO WISH
N. St. LOUIS,4 to 5 students. 713 N. St. Kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful inter­DAD: HAPPY BIRTHDAY NUMBER 49 
BRIAN BENOIT A HAPPY 21111: SUMMER JOBS 5. Ha'a acquiring all aorta of neat toya
Louis, 6 students 232-4964 cessor of all who Invoke your special Sani~i·i~-~~~d·-·g~~~~g Break'£2'ii'b'~ug·h·t patronage in time of need, to you I have 
YOUR DAUGHTERS AT N.D. AND 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS that he can play with all by himself; the family closer togothnr We like this 2 & 7 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT, recourse from the depth of my heart and 
S.M.C. LOVE YOU AND WISH YOU 
PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK 4. He'a legal; 3. She's legal too, but place because it's QUiet Is this on tape?FOR SUMMER &.OR FALL. 272-8306 humbly bag to whom God has given such 
AND MOM THE BEST. THANK YOU 
MOUNTAINS that'a a different atory; 2. The Judge I'm so bored ...let's do . ,,athing tomor­great power to come to my assistance. 
FOR ALL THE GREAT TIMES. TERRY CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­
probably won't; 1. Crazy Bob seya row Smurlel I can'l hold 1t to Ocala: we FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL. Help me in my present urgent petition, 
AND WALLY SAY HI. KEEP WATCHING INGS 914-3614224 he'a OK. 
have to pull over now The Ricker diet LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH In return, I promise to make your name 
FOR MORE... LOVE KELLY AND 
2AM cookie attack Lei's make na fate LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, known and cause you to be invoked. Say 
NANCY 
RIDE NEEDED to Galesburg, IL (or at night-9:30 Moj take anolher ptcure whyCARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI­three Our Fathers, three Hall Marys and 
Just least Peoria) lor Easter. Call Susan, don't yah fce-JT ·Sweel 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE SYRACUSE I say x1511.
ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS Glories. Publication must be promised. 
BINGHAMTON N.Y AREA FOR uNOc. 
AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN­St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. 
nde needed from DGMd area back to FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA­Amen. This Novena must be said tor 9 
EASTER BREAKIIIII CAN LEAVE 
RIDERS418eded to ATLANTA tor Easter. South Bend after Easter break call 284­TION CALL 277-7360 DAYS OR 272· consecutive days. 
ugly nan on campus.. ANYTIME THURSDAY. PLEASE CALL Call Dan at 271-9082. 
5227 6181 EVENINGS 
ERIN AT 2732. 
I' 

page 14 
Track moves out, hosts ND Invite 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
After spending a long, cold winter running indoors, the Notre Dame men's track team moves outdoors to greet the spring weather. The Irish open the season this Saturday at home, hosting the Notre Dame Invitational. 
As can be expected, the team is eager to begin the outdoor season. 
"We're very enthusiastic about the outdoor season," said head coach Joe Piane. "Any time you have a long break you're especially excited about starting again. It should be a really interesting season." 
This Saturday's meet wwill feature such teams as the Uni­versity of Detroit, Western Michigan, Aquinas College, Lewis, and Southwestern Mic­higan. "Most of our athletes haven't run since the end of February, so we're opening with a fairly low key meet to get them going,'' explained Piane. 
Among the Irish athletes competing this weekend is sophomore Glenn Watson. 
After an excellent indoor season in the 55 meter high tiurdles, Watson should be even better in the 110 meter high hurdles. 
Freshman Robert Harris will get his first shot in the 200 me­ter dash. "Robert should be very good in the 200 meters this year," said Piane. 
Sophomore Yan Searcy and junior David Warth both will compete in the 800 meter run for the Irish, and senior Dan Cahill will be running the steeple chase, a "new and dif­ferent event," according to Piane. 
As Notre Dame begins its outdoor season, one of its most important goals is to qualify runners for the NCAA Cham­pionships. In particular Piane is looking for senior co-captain Dan Garrett, junior Ron Markezich, and Sophomore Mike O'Connor to qualify. The 4x100 and 4x400 meter relay teams also are expected to have good seasons. This Saturday's meet on the Monogram Track in Krause Stadium will begin at 1:00 with the field events. Running events start at 2:00. 

Purdue beats S. Alabama Sabre 
Associated Press 
AMARILLO, Texas --Aided by Christa LaCroix's game­high 14 points, Purdue Univer­sity outscored South Alabama 10-0 in the last three minutes to earn a 63-55 victory in first­round Women's National Invi­nois State-Nevada-Las Vegas game. 

Purdue received a balanced scoring attack as Lisa Jahner and Sharon Versyp joined LeCroix in double figures with 12 apiece. Purdue made 16 of 20 free throws, compared to 5 of 7 for South Alabama. 
continued from page 20 
four-time All-Americans in their careers. 
Dan Yu, Notre Dame's other entry in the sabre competition, finished 13th. 
In today's foil competition, the Irish will send two-time All­American Yehuda Kovacs and 
Individual ResultsNCAA Fencing Championships Sabreat Princeton, N.J. 
1. Bob Cottingham (Columbia) 2. Chris Reohn (Columbia) 3. Peter Cox (Penn State) 4. Leszek Nowosielski (Notre Dame) 5. David Cox (Penn State) 
Team Standings 6. Chris Owen (Penn State) 7. John Novotny (Yale) Columbia 30, Penn State 28, Notre Dame 27, Penn 8. John Toomer (Rutgers) 9. David Stallman (Penn) 25, Yale 24, Rutgers 23. 13. Dan Yu (Notre Dame). 
~·················~ 
Friday, March 25, 1988 

Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JtMb advertising. ~ 
A,_ :k Call 239-6900 
The Observer page 15 
Irish find solace at home 
Women's tennis hosts E. Michigan tonight at Eck 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
Mter ten straight matches on the road, the Notre Dame wo­men's tennis team returns to the friendly confines of the Eck Tennis Pavilion tonight at 6 to take on Eastern Michigan. 
Home sweet home. 
For many teams, a month­long road spin can be hazar­dous to both their record and their confidence level. For a team as young as this year's Irish squad, the results can be downright calamitous. Just ask coach Michelle Gelfman. 
"Traveling has been a very hard adjustment for all of the freshmen, " says the Irish co­ach. "It has hurt us psychologi­cally as well as physically." 
An important deterrent to the unpleasant effects of the road is the emergence of a team leader. To that end, captain Michelle Dasso has performed admirably. Although the Irish roster is virtually deplete of up­perclassmen, its sole senior is a gem. Like all respected leaders, Dasso leads by exam­ple. 
"Michelle has found a good balance between traveling, academics, and her social life, " says Gelfman. "She is playing extremely well, and I think she'll finish strong for us this year." 
Dasso plays at number-two singles behind freshman Ce Ce Cahill. She also teams with Cahill to form the top doubles tandem for the Irish. The fresh­man's astounding success in 
The DePaul UniversityProfessional Master of Sctence in Accountancy Program 
1988 LA&S GRADUATES: A Special Announcement concerning Careers 
in Business Specifically for Liberal Arts and 
Sciences Students. 
The School of Accountancy of DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, a 75-year leader in innovative accounting education, offers to selected graduates of prestigious Liberal Arts and Sciences programs the Professional Master of Science in Accountancy. The program is offered in conjunction with the nation's leading accounting firms, is highly competitive, and restricted to students sponsored by the participating accounting firms. 
The 15-month program entails: 
• 
immediate (June 1988) employment in the Chicago office of a sponsoring accounting firm. 

• 
an accelerated course of study in business and accountmg --a growth industry--at Chicago's DePaul University. 


Successful completion of the DePaul PMSA program results in: 
• 
A Master of Science in Accountancy degree from DePaul University 

• 
Full-time business and accounting experience with a major accounting firm 

• 
Eligibility to sit for the CPA Examination in Illinois 

• 
Broad career opportunities, and advancement, in professional accounting with your sponsoring firm. 


Participation in the PMSA is restricted to candidates sponsored by participating accounting firms. 
The PMSA Program begins June 20, 1988. 
For more information on the PMSA Program, contact the placement office on this campus, which is cooperating with this program, or Dr. John T. Ahern, Jr., Director, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 341-8770. 
singles play since being single match. You have to want teamed with her captain can­it more than the next player. not be dismissed as mere coin­You have to want it for Notre cidence. Dame." 
It is precisely this senior The lessons the team has leadership which insured the learned from its grueling road Irish success in Las Vegas. Al­schedule will benefit it in the though the Irish won two of six long run, but the immediate matches on the trip, the players results will be on display learned a great deal about Friday evening. themselves and each other, and most importantly, they learned 
Once again, the team will be that they possess the talent to 
playing in front of a partisan pull out the tough matches. 
crowd. For the first time in a "The girls learned that you 
month, however, all on hand can't let down," said Gelfman. 
will be cheering for the Fight­"You h::~vP. to olav tough '=''""r:\' 
ing Irish. 
Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball begins today at 4 p.m. on the Bookstore courts. The Hall of Fame game will have Tim Brown, David Rivers, Tony Rice playing on the same team against the Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball scorekeepers who missed last night's meeting, please call Mike at x1962 if still interested, or stop by room 108 of Keenan. -The Ob­server 
In the NBA last night Washington edged Atlanta 94-91, Houston thrashed New York 134-117, utah dumped Sacramento 117-97, and Phoenix surprised Milwaukee 119­
114. -Associated Press 
In the NHL last night several fourth-place teams tried to improve their positions for playoff berths. In the Patrick Division the New York Rangers came through with a 6-1 victory over Edmonton. Hartford likewise helped its chances with a 3-2 win over Detroit, but Toronto came up empty, losing to Calgary 7-1. In other games Boston edged Winnipeg in overtime 4-3, and New Jersey bombed St. Louis 8-2. -Associated Press 
TheND Sailing Club is looking for anyone interested in teaching sailing for the spring semester. Call Mike at x3508 if interested. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will practice this week at 7 p.m. each night at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any questions should be directed to Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Observer 
The ND Men's Volleyball defeated Aquinas College last night at the Joyce ACC Pit. Tonight the club closes its home season as the Irish host Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne, the 12th-ranked varsity team in the nation. The match will start at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC Pit. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will continue its spring season this Saturday. The Irish will travel to Ball State at 1 p.m. to put its undefeated record on the line. -The Observer 

TONIGHT 
Ooen 9:30-2:00 
Dance, Dance, Dance with campus DJ's Dave Bruneel and Bryan Rao 
Check out the specials ato our beverage bar! 
SATORDA Y Open 9:30-2:00 Catch the newest tunes as Anne Seifert and Kris Murphy play the tunes to keep you dancing all night! 
SONDA Y served from 12:00-6:00 ALL YOO CAN EAT SOBS 
$2.00 
The Observer Friday, March 25, 1988 
Spring training roundup 
Soto makes pitch to return 

Associated Press 
Mter spending most of the past two seasons on the sidelines, Mario Soto is making his pitch to return to the Cin­cinnati Reds' starting rotation. 
Soto, idled by shoulder troubles for most of 1986 and 1987, pitched six scoreless in­nings Thursday as the Reds defeated the Houston Astros 3­1. 
Soto, who has won all three of his spring decisions, allowed only one hit, walked none and struck out two. He faced the minimum of 18 batters. 
In five exhibition starts, Soto has allowed 12 hits and three earned runs in 19 2-3 innings for a 1.37 earned run average. 
Chris Sabo had three doubles and scored two of Cincinnati's three runs. 
Expos 4, Braves 1 
Neal Heaton pitched a six­hitter as Montreal beat Atlanta in a game shortened to seven innings by rain. 
AP Photo The Cardinals' VInce Coleman lies on the ground after running Into Toronto's Tony Fernandez during Wednesday's game In Dunedin, 
Fla. St. Louis also had a tough time Thursday as Philadelphia roughed up the Redbirds 16-7. 
Pirates 4, Blue Jays 2 
Ruben Rodriquez had a solo homer and Dave Hostetler drove in two runs as Pittsburgh ended a five-game losing streak. 
Yankees 6, Twins 1 
Jose Cruz went 3-for-3 to boost his spring training average to .540 and three New York pitchers combined on a six -hitter. 
Red Sox 5, Dodgers 3 
Boston pounded Fernando Valenzuela for seven hits and all their runs in the first two innings. 
Cubs 10, Athletics 4 
Rafael Palmeiro had three hits, including his second spring homer, and drove in five runs for the Cubs. 
Giants 13, Angels 1 
Bob Melvin had two of San Francisco's nine hits in a nine­run fifth inning as the Giants mauled the Angels. 
Phillies 16, Cardinals 7 
Newly acquired Bill Almon went 5-for-6 and Chris James and Darren Daulton drove in three runs to pace Philadelphia Phillies. 
Indians 6, Brewers 0 
Scott Bailes allowed two singles and struck out six in six scoreless innings Thursday, and Carmen Castillo, Jay Bell and Brook Jacoby had three hits each for Cleveland. 
Tigers 5, Royals 3 
Jim Morrison hit his first home run and Frank Tanana won his first exhibition game for Detroit, which snapped Kansas City's seven-game win­ning streak. 

squeeze 
SQUEEZE -BABYLON AND ON ha hyIo 11 a11d o 11 CASSETIE OR LP 
Includes: 
'"Hourglass~ 
"S53-593T,' 

$599
'"Footprints:' 
'"Trust Me" 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
l=lH:~~t:l~l 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-·SERVICE-PARTB-·ACCESSORIES 
• 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY • OPEN TUES 9AM-7PM 

• 
OPEN WED -SAT 9AM • 5:30PM 


Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks Parts & Service Available 
Students $26.95 
ROSELAND 277-8866 
with ad cut-out 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 
EURYTHMICS 

EURYTHMICS -SAVAGE
SAVAGE 
CASSETIE OR LP
Includes: Q ~
Ill 
I Need a Man/Shame ~ ll!:i!" IIU Beethoven (I Love to Listen to) 

THE CHURCH STARFISH 
THE CHURCH • STARFISH 
CASSETIE OR LP 

GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities  available  in  NAVY  
MEDICINE.  
• Medical Scholarships  

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus on March3o; 1988 JOB FAIR. Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-527-8836 

• UNDER THE MILKY WAY 
£\RIST£\­
(Subject to Manufacturer's
CD'S S1299 
Availability) 
ON SALE NOW! 
AT 
THE HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Sale Prices Good Through April 2, 1988 
Friday, March 25, 1988 The Observer page 17 
Blue Devils escape Rhode Island 73-72 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Kevin Strickland scored 11 of his 12 second-half points during a 22-10 spurt that brought Duke from behind for a 73-72 victory over upstart Rhode Island in the NCAA East Regional semi­finals Thursday night. 
NCAA -/. -i,N-4l ~\ 
TOURNAMENT (~~~~~~~ 
, .. <::::!.J,']/1, 
-------:-~·\"'• ,• I 
E. Rutheford NJ '~~·· 
The fifth-ranked Hlue Devils, 27-6, play the winner of Thursday night's second game between top-ranked Temple and Richmond in Saturday's regional final. Temple had beaten Rhode Island, its Atlan­tic 10 Conference rival, all three times they met this season. 
Duke, which led by as many as 13 points early in the first half, trailed 51-46 with 15 minutes left in the game. 
The Blue Devils, looking to make their sixth trip to the I<'inal Four, responded with their 22-10 spurt in the next 13 minutes, with Strickland hit­ting two free throws to make it 68-61 with 2: 13 left. He also hit Duke's only 3-pointer during the rally. 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
NCAA Southeast Regional Thursday night. 
The Sooners, topping the 100­point mark for the 20th time this season, surged to an early 11-point lead in the second half, saw Louisville close to 76-74 midway through the half and then pulled away again. 
It was the seventh victory in a row and the 19th in 20 games for the Sooners, 33-3, who will face Villanova in the regional title game on Saturday for a berth in next week's Final Four in Kansas City. 
Villanova, playing near flaw­less ball, upset No. 6 Kentucky 
Rhode Island, which finished the season 28-7 after upsetting Missouri and Syracuse in the first and second rounds, closed the gap to 68-65 on two free throws by Kenny Green with 
1:10 left. 
But Robert Brickey, who scored 15 points, hit four straight free throws in the final 
1:04 and grabbed a key rebound off a missed free throw by 
Strickland  with  50  seconds  
remaining.  
Brickey's  two  ·free  throws  

with 13 seconds left made it 73­
69. Rhode Island rushed the ball upcourt without a timeout and got a 3-pointer from Carlton Owens, the Rams' only 3-point goal of the game, with seven seconds to go. 
Duke quickly inbounded the ball, and no Rhode Island player could stop the clock with a foul before the game ended. 
Danny Ferry led Duke with 17 pojnts, Strickland finished with 14 and John Smith 12. 
Rhode Island was led by Owens with 19 points and John Evans, Tom Garrick and Mer­gin Sina with 14 each. Garrick had averaged 30 points in Rhode Island's five previous postseason games, which in­cluded a 68-63 loss to Temple in the Atlantic 10 tournament final. 
80-74 in the other semifinal 
game Thursday night. 
Grant hit his first six shots 
of the second half, including the 
team's first four baskets to help 
build a 64-53 lead with 17:22 to 
play. 
Louisville, 24-11, made a run on two baskets by substitute Mike Abram and another pair by Herbert Crook, cutting the lead to 76-74 with 9:54 to play. 
The Sooners wasted little time in asserting control again. 
Dave Sieger sank a 3-point basket and King followed with a three-point play to build the lead to 82-74 with 9:18 to play. The Cards never got closer than six points the rest of the way. 
tiCfifi Tournamcznt 
The Final Sixteen 
Purdue Arizona Kansas State 
Iowa 
Pontiac, MI.,___..., .----tSeattle, WA 
March 25 & 27....--_ ___;,M.;;..;.;...;ic""'h..;.;i......,;;;a.;._n Vanderbilt ..:.K.:.:a::::n:....:.:::.sa=s__--;March 25 & 27 
L------1North Carolina 
Kansas City, MO .,___
J;;..;..;._---tKansas City, MO Oklahoma April2 April2 Oklahoma.....--.=...:..:=.;.;;.;...;.;...;;.;. LouisviIIe 
.....__-tBirmingham, AL Vl'llanova 
March 24 & 26·.,._ _ ___::;,.:,:..:.=..:....:~= 
Kentuck
Duke 
Duke Kentucky L...-_:....:..;:;.;...;.;:..=.~ 
Temple handles Richmond 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­-Mike Vreeswyk scored eight of his 19 points in a 20-8 spurt mid­way through the second half as No. 1 ranked Temple defeated Richmond 69-47 Thursday night in the NCAA East semi­finals, ending the Spiders string of postseason surprises. 
NCAA (,l~1 l'l.4~~ 
..:.;T~O::.!:U::.:::R::...N_A_M_E_N_T_(~:-' • ~\\ 
.. ,;,
-------~.... .._.;.
E. Rutheford NJ •"'"'''' 
The victory was the 18th straight for the top-seeded Owls, 32-1, and moved them into Saturday's regional cham­pionship game against second­seeded Duke, which defeated Rhode Island 73-72. The teams have not played this season. 
Temple, which went into the game as the No. 1 ranked team in defensive field goal percentage at 39.5 percent, rarely was threatened against Richmond. The Owls' stingy matchup zone constantly forced the Spiders to shoot from much farther than they wanted. 
Richmond, the champions of the Colonial Athletic Associa­tion, stayed close for about 24 minutes. Then the Owls took over behind Vreeswyk and sensational freshman guard Mark Macon, who scored 24 points. 
Leading 39-34, Macon hit a 15­foot jumper to start the Owls on their big run, and Vreeswyk followed with two free throws. Point guard Howard Evans converted a layup off a steal, and after Steve Kratzer hit a layup for Richmond, Evans fol­lowed with a 3-point shot for a 48-36 lead. 
Vreeswyk added a pair of 3­point field goals late in the r.un and Macon finished it with a turnaround jumper from 15 feet for a 59-42 edge. 
Tim Perry and Evans both finished with 11 points for Temple. 
Ken Atkinson led the Spiders with 15 points. 
Richmond, 26-7, was the 13th seed in the East, the lowest left in the tournament. The Spiders defeated defending national champion Indiana and Georgia Tech in advancing this far, but were no match for Temple. 
Kansas influences Midwest action 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich.--There should be plenty of fans from the state of Kansas in the Sil­verdome Friday night as a team from the state plays in each game of the Midwest Regional semifinals. 
NCAA .(, "i\N:4/'~ ..:..;N:..:O:....:T-=Eo.:B:..:O::....::O:::...:.K-=--_(ti--,. ~~,~
-------\"'~~~-:!!.!)
Pontiac Ml ~..._ . , 
Kansas takes on Vanderbilt in the opening game while Kansas State meets Purdue in the second game. 
Both coaches talked of pride in the Big Eight Conference and in the state for having two teams in the 16 teams still remammg but downplayed pointing toward a meeting. 
"Kansas State has to got to be happy if we win because they've proved they can beat us," Kansas Coach Larry Brown said. 
Kansas State beat the J ayhawks two of three times the schools met this season, in­cluding a 72-61 victory that snapped Kansas' 55-game home winning streak. 
PONTIAC, Mich.-­
Vanderbilt guard Barry 
Goheen had nothing but praise 
for Commodore fans. 
''The Vanderbilt community 
and the city of Nashville has 
been sort of electric since our 
win," Goheen said of the over­
time victory over Pittsburgh 
last Sunday. "It's about time 
they've had something to cheer 
for. It's been 14 years since 
Vanderbilt has been in the 
NCAAs and the community and 
the fans deserve this. They've 
been great all year." 
This is Vanderbilt's third ap­pearance in the tournament and the Commodores came within two points of the Final Four in 1964. Michigan, led by Cazzie Russell, beat Vanderbilt 87-85 in the Mideast Regional final that year to advance to the Final Four . 
PONTIAC, Mich.--The Big Eight and Big Ten are the only conference to have three teams each in the round of 16. 
Kansas and Kansas State of the Big Eight are both in the Midwest Regional, while Okla­homa is the top seed in the Sout­heast. 
Purdue is the top seed in the Midwest, while Iowa and Mic­higan are both in the West Regional. 
The appearance in the round of 16 is the third straight for Kansas and the Jayhawks are one of only three teams to have advanced that far in each of the last three tournaments. Duke and North Carolina are the others. 
PONTIAC, Mich.--The Sil­verdome is an imposing struc­ture but the players who prac­
ticed on it Thursday for this weekend's Midwest Regional didn't seem that impressed. 

Friday, March 25, 1988
page 18 The Observer 
QB Fouts retires 
Associated Press 
RANCHO SANTA FE, Calif.­
-Quarterback Dan Fouts, who 
directed San Diego's record­
setting offense of the late 1970s 
and early 1980s, retired 
Thursday, saying his body 
could not take the battering of 
another football season. 
"After 15 years, this body has taken about as many hits as it can,'' Fouts said in a news con­ference at his Rancho Santa Fe estate, about 20 miles north of San Diego. "It's just time for me to move on to a new phase in my life. 
"I feel fortunate that I have my health intact, that I have all my teeth, and that I have a few yet-unscrambled brain cells. Really, that's the way I want to go through the rest of my life. I want to enjoy it, and I believe I will." 
Fouts, 36, said his decision to retire was a mutual one by him and club officials. At no time was he pressured into leaving, adding that he did not consider going to another team. 
Fouts acknowledged there had been differences at times between him and some club of­ficials, including owner Alex Spanos. But asked if he held any grudges, Fouts said, "No, there really aren't any." 
The club reportedly reached a contract buyout agreement with Fouts last November in which the six-time Pro Bowler gave up all contractual guaran­tees beyond 1987 in return for an undisclosed bonus, last year's full $750,000 salary despite the strike-interrupted season, and $375,000 for 1988, when the pact expired. 
The Chargers, meanwhile, have been actively trying to trade for an experienced quar­terback because backup Mark Herrmann has been effective only in relief and third-stringer Mark Vlasic, a rookie last year, lacks seasoning. 
The holder of seven NFL passing marks and 42 club records, Fouts once was con­sidered among the league's most durable quarterbacks. 
Spring 
continued from page 20 
ent or former NCAA Division I 
basketball player, male or 
female, per team. Also, only 
three varsity football players, 
or two football players ans a 
Division I basketball player, 
are allowed on one team. 
Another rule that is part of 
the uniqueness of Bookstore 
Basketball-is that games are 
played regardless of weather 
conditions. It has not been un­
usual to see thunderstorms and 
snow fall on the campus during 
the tournament, but the games 
go on. Also, no substitutions or 
time outs are allowed. Free 
throws and field goals are both 
worth one point, and the games 
are played to 21. 
In 1978, the tournament was 
given national attention in a 
four-page Sports Illustrated ar­
ticle in the May 15 issue. The 
writer, Rick Telander, joined a 
team undercover and did not 
interview players openly to 
avoid glory-seeking students. 
"I've never seen a campus 
where sports are more impor­
tant," said Telander. "Even in 
the calmest of times Notre 
Dame can resemble an Olym­
pic training village." 
The first sign of spring 
Friday 
Bookstore Court 
4:00 -Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Men vs. The 
Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys Stepan 1 
5:00 -Oh My God, It Talks! vs. Dangling Fury 
5:45 ·The Bumblebees vs. CBF Stepan 2 
5:00 -A Pilot and 4 Guys ... vs. Slow Train Com in' 
5:45 -4 Stools and a Smoot vs. Dick Vitale's All 
Masonry Team Stepan 3 
5:00 -Vanilla Thunder vs. Prude 
5:45 -Untouchable 5 vs. Vo Ban and the Mis­
haps Stepan 4 
5:00 -Ollie North and 4 Other Guys . vs. 5 Un­dergraduate ... 
5:45 -SCB Club vs. Ground Wags Stepan 5 
5:00 -Dangling Childhood vs. Trophy Bearers 
5:45 -Q-2 But Still Trying vs. Dr. Whoopie's 
Scurvy Dogs Stepan 6 
5:00 -We Couldn't Think of a Name ... vs. We're the Basketballs 
5:45 -Swaggart, Bakker,...Good Word vs. An 
Engineer, Pre-professional. .. Bookstore 9 
5:00 -Screaming Arch ...lrom Hell vs. Never Ever Mix the Scram and Grease-b-gone 
5:45 -You Mean You Wear tt... vs. Do You Know 
Anything About Real Estate Bookstore 10 
5:45 -Heavy Drugs vs. We Drink Alone 
Saturday 
Stepan 1 
1:30 -Radiation Researchers vs. Man In A Canoe Overboard 
2:15 -The Wet One ... vs. Best of the West 
3:00 -Stud Mullins vs. Billy and the Bikers 
3:45 -We Could Dunk, But Why vs. 3 Men, A Fag, and A Husband 
4:30 -Dick Vitale's One-Eyed Bandits vs. We Eat Road Kill 
5:15 -We Like Little Girls vs. 5 Guys Born To 
Hang Stepan 2 
1:30 -The Moles vs. Wagner's Mustangs 
2:15 -SPUDS vs. Bad Diaper Rash 
3:00 -Bruce Babbit and the Jamaican... vs. Young Socialists at NOOMC ... 
3:45 -5 Evangelists Behind Bars vs. A Midsum­mer Nights Dream 
4:30 -The Grungemasters vs. Team Number 172 
5:15 -The Goob, Foor, Lurch, Opre, Sloth Crew 
vs. 1 o Legs, 9 Hands Stepan 3 
1:30 -We Need 2 More Guys So Call 2101 vs. Don't Shock My Corn 
2:15 -3 Guys, Racho, and the Muchacho vs. Chicken Heads 
3:00 -Spaceman Spill and His Spacely Sprock­ets vs. We Like Bug Juice 
3:45 -The Butcher Shop vs. Long on the Yen 
4:30 -Something God-Awful and Gross vs. 4 RA's and a Guy Working ... 
5:15 -Flipper & the Undertows vs. Gunning with 
the Buddha Stepan 4 
1:30 -!'lo Threat vs. Wally and Julie, Steve and Kathleen Forever 
2:15 -Forceable Unconstrained Carnal... vs. George Bailey & the Building ... 
3:00 -Eddy Edwards & 4 Other Guys ... vs. The Trinity 
3:45 -Team A vs. IKE 
4:30 -The Giving Tree vs. 5 Really Big Dudes 
'5:15 -Magna Non Est Scala vs. Eat Dirt Stepan 5 
1:30 -LA Law vs. If You Give Us A Number Give Us 69 
2:15 -Some Unknown Miscreants vs. Sly & the Family Stone 
3:00 -Sweep It Under The Rug vs. The Explosive Packages & Boomer 
3:45 -Fire Digger vs. The Lords of the Lay-ups 
4:30 -Really, We Know What We're Doing vs. Fica Jams 
5:15 -Mercurians vs. Dump Digger 
Stepan 6 
1:30 -The Merry Mets vs. Pepperoni Pizzas and a Car 
2:15 -Apathetic Guys Who Probably Won't Show Up vs. Fur Bumpers 
3:00 -Small But Huge vs. The Potato Heads 
3:45 -Thirty and Under vs. The Members 
4:30 -Transport Phenomena vs. Loadwarriors 
5:15 -ML T & 4 Other Guys From Real Cities 
vs. Tap Into Europe Bookstore 9 
1:30 -Slaughterhouse Five vs. Emotionally Ex­hausted and Morally Bankrupt 
2:15 -No Money, No Drugs vs. 3 Bimbos and the Horse They Rode In On 
3:00 -5 Screams From The Loft vs. Michael Cool J & 3 Other Guys ... 
3:45 -Lumberjacks vs. A Few Good Wastes of Education 
4:30 -4 People With A Clue & Jeff vs. Mess With the Best Die With the Rest 
5:15 -Abu Nidal & His Card Carrying Commu­nists vs. Shockum Tohubahus 
Bookstore 10 
1:30 -The Maccabees vs. Know Your PLS Her­itage 
2:15 -Conjunction Junction... ·vs. 4 Men & A Pregnant Quad 
3:00 -The Plumbers & the Rest Is Censored vs. Primitive Bushmen 
3:45 -A SMC Chick, A Doormat, & 3 Other ... vs.. The Broken Combs 
4:30 -The Watusi vs. Don't You Be Looking At My Johnson 
5:15 -John McGrath & 4 Others vs. Falto Fenomenal Fire 
Lyons 11 
1:30 -Court Mongers vs. The Dog & 4 Men From Murp 
2:15 -4 Nice Guys & Bill vs. Dantley, Lemieuix, T.D., & 4 Other Guys ... 
3:00 -5 White Guys With No Tan Lines vs. Dunkin Hines & the Turnover Kings 
3:45 ·Team That Time Forgot vs. Not A Chance 
4:30 -Joy Bag Jugglers From Hell vs. Boinkers 
Lyons 12 
1:30 -Stench Mongers vs. LSP 
2:15 -Just Shillelagh vs. Bakker, Swaggert & 3 Other Guys Who Sleep Alone 
3:00 -Air Force ROTC & the Flying Irish vs. Now You See Us, Now You Don't 
3:45 -Wet Armadillos vs. The Slobbering Labradors 
4:30 -None Ot This vs. Murph & The Magic Tones 
Corrections 
Mlsasslgned Teams On page 22, the team listed as # 41 Check the Ice is actually # 411 Death Potatoes. On page 10, the team listed as # 130 Dump Digger should be Things Fall Apart. 
l.louble Teams Two teams are named Slaughterhouse Five. Team # 369 on page 5 is captained by Jim Corbett, and Team # 393 on page 18 is cap­tained by Keith Harbor. Two teams are named Five Amigos. Team # 562 on page 2 is captained by Steve Carr, and T earn # 629 on page 4 is captained by Ray Lopez. 
Nameless Teams 
Team# 123 on page 6 is The Team That Didn't Turn a Name in on Time, captained by Will Anderson. Team# 627 on page 18 is Team A, captained by Mike Olsen. 
Two-Timing Teams Team # 43, Five Guys Who Play Less than Tony Jackson, is listed on both page 5 and page 9. That team will only play on page 9. 
Confused Teams Anyone who cannot locate their team on the schedule can call Mike Manning at 283-1962. 
NL President: Postema's fate undecided 
Associated Press per said it was standing by its 
MESA, Ariz.--National story. League president Bart Giamatti also was quoted in Giamatti said Thursday Pam the newspaper as saying Pos­Postema could still become the tema, 33, would return to the major leagues' first woman minors. umpire this season, a day after "She'll be back in the Amer­saying she was going back to ican Association as a crew the minors. chief," he said. "We have two 
"I have consistently said we openings. We haven't made a will not make an announce­decision on who will fill them." ment about any of our people The Sacramento Bee ran a (umpires) until we reach a similar story quoting Giamatti decision, and there is no deci­as saying: "I think she does a sion yet," Giamatti said. good job. Does that mean she'll 
"We are still studying 10 be called up right away? no, it people and she is one of them," doesn't." he said. The two San Francisco 
However, USA today quoted papers, the Chronicle and the Giamatti in Thursday editions Examiner, also used Giamat­as saying Postema would not ti's comments on Postema, be one of two umpires added to saying she likely wouldn't be in the NL's pool of vacation the majors this season. replacements, and the newspa-In denying that a decision 

Mar Main Apartments 
* Convenient Downtown Location 
* Security Entrance+ * Utilities Included+ * Laundry Facilities on Premises+ * Range From $285 thru $425+ * Efficiencies Still Available
•+ 
125 W. Marion St.
+ 233-2098 ask for Mary Jane Chase 

had been made on Postema, Giamatti also declined to spe­cifically talk about her. 
"I don't talk about individual umpires or their abilities. I never have and never will," he told The Associated Press from Mesa, where he was attending worked first base during Cin­cinnati's 3-1 win over Houston at Kissimmee, Fla. 
a  Cubs-Athletics  exhibition  
game.  
On  Thursday,  Postema  

When the game was over, Postema signed a few autographs and then walked quickly toward the umpires' room as reporters trailed. 
Asked about the published reports, she said, "I haven't heard anything, just what I read in the papers." 
HEY PETEI YOO REfiLL GltOWrt OPI 
HAPPY 21st 
t MUCH LOVE, MOM, DAD TIM, KRISTI MATT 
FPIDAY 
~50<tDRAFT ~BARTL.ES&JAVMES BERRY 75¢ 
~~~I:~;~~~'Y
JAMESON WHISKEY DRINKS 75t 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------~ 
Friday, March 25, 1988 The Observer page 19 
Campus 
Friday 
11:15 a.m.: Department of Economics Public Policy Workshop with Wayne Pul­ver, gradudate student, Room 131 Decio. 
12:15 p.m.: Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns, Perspectives of Members of Notre Dame's Academic Honor Code Committee, Room 124 CSC. 4:30p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium, "The Geometry of Linear Differential Sys­tems," by Le Dung Trang, University of Paris, Room 226 Computing Center. 
5:30 p.m.: Open Art Exhibition, Douglas Kinsey: Images of Survival, Snite Museum. 6 p.m.: Women's Tennis vs. Eastern Michigan, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
7:30 & 9:45p.m.: NO Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Blue Velvet," Annenberg Auditorium. 8:15p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall. Saturday 
8 a.m.: National Teachers Exam, Engineering Auditorium. 9 a.m.: Midwest Student Sociology Conference, LaFortune Student Center. 1 p.m.: Outdoor Track Invitational, Moose Krause Field. Sunday 
4 p.m.: Wrestlemania IV, Joyce ACC, $9 and $13. · 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Pasta Bar Grilled Cheese Filet of Sole Clam Chowder  Batter Fried Fish Cheese Enchiladas Eggplant Parmesan Deli Bar  

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a art of it. 
Comics 
Gary Larson
Bloom County Berke Breathe9 The Far Side 


Bill Watterson 
"Man, Larry, I don, know If we're up to this .... 1 mean, this guy's got kneecaps from hell." 
SUB PRESENTSWOODY ALLEN WEEK 

"A MID SUMMER NIGHT'S SEX CoMEDY" Friday & Saturday 
8:00 & 10:00 PM Cushin Auditorium $2.00 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  
1 Vendetta  
5 Fr.  
revolutionary  
10 Deceive  
14 Hindu god  
15 Disconcert  
16 Utility  
customer  
17 Fleur-de-lls  
18 Thick-headed  
19 Festive  
20 Second  
chance In  
court  
22 Warnings  
24 Embezzles  
25 Preserve  
26 Ancient  
kingdom  
28  Duration  
31  Russ. sea  
34  "-Bovary"  
WWII  
38 March family  
chronicler  
41  Place for  © 1988 Tribune Media Services. Inc.  03125188  
experiments  All Rights Reserved  
42 Inception  
43 Shades  4 Eng. prima  
44 Pare  minister  
 
46 Sports org.  5 Like one of  
 
48  Residue  Allee's friends  
 
49 Gridiron term  6 Eve's  son  
 
53 Algonquian  7 Flied for  
57 Overcome by  office  
Cupid  8 Halper: abbr.  
58 "The World  9 O'Neill play  
 
According  10 Sea cow  
to-"  11  Defense gp.  
 
59 VIgilant  12 Riches  
 
61  "-Camera"  13 Epochs  
62 Great Lakes  21  Poorly  
port  23 Jury  
63 Pardon  27 Ike's first lady  
64 Disparagement  28 Store away  
65 Precious 66 Nurse Cavell  29 Rodgers' "­Swell"  03125188  
67 .Rochester's  30 Loathe  
Jane  31  Every1hlng  
32 Jungle sound  40 Reprove  53 Mature  
DOWN  33 Fr. river  45 Natty  54 Singular  
1 Bazaars  35 Hammarskjold  47 Cuckoo  55 Solo  
2 Plumed  37 Scores: abbr.  50 Po's land  56 Was In debt  
bird  39 "The March  51  Balk  57 Revue part  
3 Gat together  King"  52 Finn. lake  60 Fr. friend  



I • 
.. 
-----------------------,-----~----------------------------------------~ 
.. , 
s 
orts 
Friday, March 25, 1988
page 20 

Irish baseball hosts Wisconsin in opener 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Chicago State at Coveleski Assistant Sports Editor Stadium. The twinbill with the Cougars will start at 12:30 p.m. After playing 17 of its first 18 Wisconsin, which currently games on the road, the Notre holds a 5-7 record, returns 18 Dame baseball team returns letter-winners from a squad home in grand style this after-that swept four games from noon. Notre Dame at Jake Kline Field 
The 8-10 Irish take on Wiscon-last season. The Badgers will sin at 2 p.m. today in Notre put ace lefthander Tom Fis­Dame's first game at Stanley cher on the mound today. Coveleski Stadium. The new Fischer throws with velocity South Bend facility seats 5200 ranging in the 90 mph range, fans and will house the fled-and he is projected to be a first­gling Class A South Bend White round pick in this spring's Sox franchise. major league draft. He posted 
"Coveleski Stadium is an-a 2.03 earned run average last other indication of where our season. program is going," said first-Scott Cepicky is the Badgers' year Irish coach Pat Murphy. leading hitter, batting .333 with "It is a tremendous facility, three home runs and 16 runs and we are very lucky to be batted in. Wisconsin's lineup able to use it for some of our also includes Mike Barker and home games. It is as good as John Byce, both All-Big Tense­any Division I ballpark in the lections last year. country.'' In previous action, Wisconsin 
Notre Dame's clash with swept two games from Duke Wisconsin will be just one of and split a pair with Wake For­five games on the Irish est. The Irish opened their schedule for this weekend. season by splitting two with Notre Dame will go to In-Duke and losing two to Wake 
The Observer I David Fisher 
dianapolis for a doubleheader Forest. Notre Dame also has
Senior shortstop Pat Pesavento (throwing) and junior second 
against Butler on Saturday, · lost 15 consecutive games
baseman Mike Moshier (background) patrol the middle of the infield 
then returns home on Sunday
for the Irish baseball squad, which opens Its home season this 
for a doubleheader with see HOME, page 13
afternoon at Coveleski Stadium against Wisconsin. 
Bookstore Basketball: spring has arrived 

Leszek Nowoslelskl 
Frosh puts ND fencing in third 
Special to The Observer 
Freshman Leszek Nowosielski was named second-team All-American in the men's sabre competi­tion as he put the Notre Dame men's fencing team in third place in the NCAA Championships after the first day of competition. 
Columbia leads the team standings with 30 points, fol­lowed by Penn State with 28 and Notre Dame with 27. The foil competition will be held today, and the tournament concludes Saturday with the epee competition. 
"It could be worse, it could be better," said Irish head coach Mike DiCicco. "I think we're in a decent posi­tion. Leszek gives our foilists and epeeists a chance to win the title." 
Nowosielski placed fourth in the individual competi­tion, qualifying for the final round of six before losing his first match to Chris Reohn of Columbia, who finished second. Nowosielski then defeated David Cox of Penn State 10-7, but lost to Peter Cox of the samJ school by the same school for fourth place. 
Nowosielski became the first freshman All-American since Notre Dame foilist Charles Higgs-Coulthard did it in 1984, and the first fresh­man All-American in the sabre competition since Notre Dame's Mike Sullivan did it in 1976. Both Higgs­Coulthard and Sullivan were By PETE SKIKO 

teams involved, rookie Sports Writer 
Bookstore Commissioner Mike Manning has experienced rela-
The first robin, the first 70-tively few problems.degree day, hopefully the last 
"Certainly, an improvementice patchpuddle--they've all over last year is the fact that made their appearance on the we're only dealing with teamNotre Dame campus. 
names, not numbers," said 

Manning, a sophomore. "The teams whose names did not clear the panel (which decided whether the names were usable or not) were easy to get a hold 
But springtime officially kicks off today at 4:00 when Bookstore Basketball teams take the court for the 17th con­secutive season. 
The largest basketball tourn­ament in the world only got big­ger this year, at the expense of the more superstitious players. The number of teams in this year's tourney swelled four squads to, you guessed it, 666. 
Despite the number of of and we didn't have any prob­lems finding them a suitable name. The biggest hassle we've had is that I forgot to put 
· page numbers on the schedules. I guess I have to apologize for that. 
"Two teams were on the schedule twice, but that situa­tion has been cleared up. Things have been hectic ­there's been a lot of work to do and some of the assistant com­missioners have showed me the ropes. I'll be glad when it fi­nally gets underway." 
Action starts, as it does every year, with the Hall of Fame . Game on Bookstore Court 9 at 
4:00. Thisyear,Lou'sTwoQB's and Two Blind Guys, featuring Tony Rice, Kent Graham, David Rivers and Tim Brown, takes on The Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys. Rivers and Brown are playing only in the Hall of Fame game, and Rice's squad will take on two other players if it continues in the tournament. 
A total of 15 games will be played today, heading into a full slate of action over the weekend. 
Also of interest, women's head basketball coach Muffet McGraw and assistant coach 
--but Steve (Wenc, commis-Bill Fenley will be playing on sioner for the last two years) Saturday for a team called 
Dick Vitale's One-Eyed Ban­dits, and the new, revamped edition of Screaming Midgets from Hell take Stepan Court 2 on Monday. 
The tournament has grown in numbers and popularity every year since 1972 when two stu­dents, Fritz Hoefer and Vince Meconi, decided that Notre Dame needed to liven up the campus athletic scene in the spring. That year, 53 teams competed in the tournament. 
The champions in Bookstore's initial year were led by Irish basketball star John Shumate. He was joined on that team by varsity tea:r:n­mates Gary Brokaw, Dwight Clay, and Pete Crotty, and foot­ball quarterback Cliff Brown. After that team dominated the tournament, a rule was imple­mented to allow only one pres-
see SPRING, page 18 
Villanova upsets Kentucky 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--Doug West and Mark Plansky keyed a late first-half run, giving Vil­lanova a lead it never lost as the Wildcats upset sixth­ranked Kentucky 80-74 in the NCAA Southeast Regional semifinals Thursday night. 

The lone Big East represen­tative remaining from the six who started the tournament turned aside favored Kentucky with a nearly flawless perfor­mance. 
Plansky scored five points and West four in a 14-3 burst in the last 4: 30 of the half to create a 43-32 lead. Villanova, 24-12, built its lead to 49-36 early in the second half and withstood a pair of surges that twice saw Kentucky get within four points. 
The victory sent the sixth­seeded Wildcats, who won the national championship in 1985, into Saturday's regional title game against the winner of 
Thursday  night's  clash  be­ 
tween  No.  4 Oklahoma  and  
Louisville.  

Kentucky, finishing 27-6, first got within four at 63-59 with just under nine minutes remaining, but a 3-point basket by Kenny Wilson ended that threat. 
The Southeastern Confer­ence champions got within 74­70 with 2:04 to go, but Villanova milked the 45-second shot clock and West, who finished with 20 points, converted a 12-footer. 
Plansky and Wilson each hit two free throws in the final 33 seconds to create eight-point leads as Villanova went 17 of 17 from the free throw line in the game. 
Rex Chapman led all scorers with 30 points, including five 3­point baskets. 
Oklahoma 1 08, Louisville 98 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.-­Harvey Grant scored 34 points and Stacey King 24 as fourth­ranked Oklahoma won a fast­paced shootout over Louisville with a 108-98 victory in the 
see TOURNEY, page 17 
' • 
~ 
' 
t 
! 



