Happy Halloween
IACCENT: Mystery ghost returns Increasing ghosts this after­noon with warmer werewolf breath. High in the lower 50s. Mostly ghoulish tonight with

IVIEWPOINT: Beyond the classroom 
chance of blood sprinkles. 



MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
'
Explosion at refinery ,.,..,.-"' kills one, injures three 
Associated Press what caused the fire and explo­
sion shortly before 2 p.m. in the 
WHITING, Ind. -One worker refinery's No. 3 oxidizer unit, was killed and three others which makes industrial as­were seriously injured by as­phalt, said Elise Sims, an phalt tar that burned through Amoco spokeswoman. their clothing Sunday following Sims said said the fire began an explosion and fire at an about 2 p.m. CST and was Amoco Oil Co. refinery, aut­brought under control by the horities said. refinery's firefighting crew 
Two of the injured were in within about half an hour. critical condition with third­"The fire has been contained degree burns over at least 60 in one small area of the percent of their bodies, said Dr. refinery and no outside assis­


BOO!
Michael Pepper, an emergency tance was necessary. We have room physician at St. Cath­had one fatality," Sims said. erine's Hospital in East The refinery in this Chicago Chicago. suburb along the Illinois­
"They were covered with tar Indiana state line was once the from their heads down to the largest in the nation and has tips of their toes. We had to cut been the scene of several major 
The Observer I Jennifer O'Donald

all their clothes off with a cast fire and explosions in the past saw," Pepper said. 10 years, including two earlier It was not immediately clear this year. 
Room 423 Farley is the location of this truly scary pumpkin doing its best to frighten its residents. 


Notre Dame to welcome Pres. nominee Bush 
By CHRIS MURPHY the Law School's White Center munity can obtain tickets at the speak to the Notre Dame com­Penn State football game on Editor-in-Chief for Law and Government Lec­Student Activities Office, ac­munity by letter on July 22, as November 15, 1986. He also par­ture Series. cording to the public relations part of an on-going University ticipated in the International 
Vice President and Republi­(Bush's speech has been billed press release. tradition, according to Conklin. Summer Special Olympics can Presidential Nominee as a "major address," accor­The last presidential candidate Games' closing ceremonies in George Bush will visit Notre ding to Bush aides, Conklin Students will be limited to to accept this invitation was the summer of 1987. Dame Tuesday, according to said. two tickets per person. Seating Democrat Jimmy Carter in the Richard Conklin, University Tickets for the event will be for the event begins at 1:30 fall of 1976. The center sponsoring the director of public relations and available to Notre Dame stu­p.m. and ends at 2 p.m. Tuesday's visit marks the campaign address was estab­information. dents, faculty and staff starting University President Ed­third campus visit of Bush as lished in 1977 to examine public 
at 8 a.m. today at the LaFor­ward Malloy invited Bush and vice president. He had atten­policy questions within a Bush will speak in Stepan tune Information Desk. Mem­Democratic Presidential Can­ded a University trustees' framework of Judeo-Christian Center at 2:30 p.m as part of bers of the Saint Mary's com-didate Michael Dukakis to reception and the Notre Dame-values, according to Conklin. 
Major merger with Kraft will be biggest non-oil merger 
'. 
Associated Press 
cash and securities, but also 
NEW YORK -Kraft Inc. said would heap $12.4 billion in new Sunday it had agreed to a $13.1 debt on the company. billion buyout by Philip Morris "Our shareholders are re­\ Cos. Inc., ending a short but in­ceiving full value, and this tense takeover fight in the big­Hamish Maxwell, chairman gest merger ever between two and chief executive of Philip \ non-oil U.S. companies. Morris, said in a statement his 
In a joint statement, the two company believed the merger food giants said they reached would create "a U.S.-based a definitive agreement in food company that will com­which Philip Morris would pay The Observer I Jennifer O'Donald
pete more effectively in world Dorm decorations 
$106 cash for each of Kraft's food markets. outstanding shares. "Kraft's products provide an A scary skeleton ... A ghoulish ghost ... A wicked witch ... 
If completed, the merger excellent complement to our would be second in size only to existing product lines and po­the $13.3 billion acquisition of sition us to capitalize on mar­Gulf Oil Corp. by Chevron keting opportunities 
Corp., in 1984. worldwide." 
The agreement comes just five days after Kraft, which is Those products include some based in Glenview, Ill., said it of the best known foods on U.S. would negotiate with Philip supermarket aisles, including Morris only if the tobacco and Philadelphia cream cheese, consumer products company Miracle Whip salad dressing, raised its initial $90 a share Sealtest and Breyer's ice buyout offer to equal the value creams and Velveeta cheese of a defensive restructuring spread. proposed by Kraft. 
Kraft on Oct. 23 rejected Still pending is a $20.3 billion Philip Morris' initial offer as buyout proposal by the invest­inadequate, and unveiled a ment firm Kohlberg Kravis 

restructuring it said would pay Roberts & Co. for food and A devilish door ... And a student's spirit (Angle Bel­lanca's).
its shareholders $110 a share in tobacco giant RJR Nabisco Inc. 







page 2 
r 
IN BRIEF 
Halloween is Jayne Ware's time to howl, so to speak, because it's about the only time of year she finds a big audience for talk about her line of work: ghostbusting. The vanity license plate on her van says "GHOSTBUS," and her business card says "Granny Ghostbuster" alongside 'Parapsychologist." For most of the year, Mrs. Ware says she does serious investigation at the request of people who have "unexplainable happenings" in their buildings. But around Halloween, "people usually expect me to make a fun thing out of it, so I go along with the idea," she said, laughing. "These are about the only two weeks of the year I talk about 'ghosts.' The rest of the year, during research and for lecture purposes, I prefer to call them 'energies' or 'vortexes."' -Associated Press 
Terry Coyne took second place in extemporaneous speaking, and third in impromptu speaking to pace the Notre Dame Debate and Speech Team to a strong finish in the Age of Aquarius Tournament this past weekend at Ball State University. Fred Tombar finished fifth in prose interpretation, and Jim McCarthy narrowly missed placing in impromptu speaking for the Irish. -The Obser­ver 
OF INTEREST 
300 Rice Student Tickets are needed to allow mentally handicapped adults from the LaPorte County Sheltered Workshop and Logan Center to attend the Nov. 5 game. Students can drop off donated tickets in the dining halls or at the Center for Social Concerns this week. -The Observer 
Any College Republicans or BushQuaylesupporters interested in working on the George Bush visit should attend a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 254 of the Center for Continuing Eduation. -The Observer 
The Feast of All Saint's, a holy day of obligation, is celebrated tomorrow. A Vigil mass will be held in Sacred Heart Church today at 5: 15 p.m. Mass will also be cele­brated on Tuesday at 11:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. Please check your residence hall bulletin board for the time of hall masses. -The Observer 
Free Flu Shots are offered today in the Library Concourse from 9 a.m to 9 p.m. -The Observer 
Manufacturers Bank will be on campus today in Room 122 Hayes-Healy to discuss career opportunities in Commerical Lending and Financial Analysis. -The Obser­ver 
Humanitas, the journal of the College Arts and Letters, is soliciting essays, interviews, fiction, and reviews. Direct your submissions to the third floor of LaFortune. Deadline is November 4. -The Observer 
Sexual Harassment, a panel discussion, will be held tomorrow from 12: 15 to 1 p.m. in the Library Lounge. It is sponsored by the Women's Resource Committee of the Graduate Student Union. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
Design Editor .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Lisa Tugman Design Assistant ........ Ann Buff Typeaetters ........... Jim Mercurio .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . Andy Schlidt News Editor.................... Colleen Cronin Copy Editor ..... .. .. .. .. .. .. Cindy Broderick Sports Copy Editor........... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Michael Truppa Viewpoint Layout........ Annette Rowland Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor .......... Kathy Lenney Accent Designer............. Robert Sedlack 
~lie Ol.enteo (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except dunna eum and vacation periods. 'ntOlleen« is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Muy's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina 'nt Ot.ent«, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, llldiana 46S56. 
'nt ~is a member or 'nt Mlodaled Pna. All reproduction riahts are 
raerved. 
Typists.................. .. ..... Diana Bradley ............................................. Will Zamer ND Day Editors ..... ........ Diana Bradley ....................................Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor .. .. .............. Liz Lobb Photographera ........... Jennifer O'Donald .............................................. Zoltan Ury Ads Designers..... .. ........ Mindy Breen .............................................. Patti Kase .......................................... Megan Keane ............................................ Molly Killen 
Monday, October 31 , 1988
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Halloween has taken on an evil meaning 
Halloween... a night for investigating the "dark side" of life. It's a night on which groups of people get together to swap horror stories visit graveyards, and hold seances with th~ hopes of contacting the dead or not-so-dead. The facination with the unexplained and the unknown has become an integral part of what happens on this holiday. However, it was not always this way in the past. 
The word "Halloween", which stems from the word "All Hallows Eve", began as a night in which the deceased heros and loved ones were remembered and their lives were cele­brated. The tradition of the time was to act out the many adventures of their lives by dressing up as the hero and putting on skits describing the battles and bravery of their lives. This was continued to the next day, "All Saint's Day", in which the faithful would celebrate the saints which had devoted their lives to the service of God. 
As time went on, the evil characters became just as prominent as the heroes and soon practi­cal jokes took place among the children. The now popular form of trick-or-treating was a method of quelling the children and keeping the mischeif to a minimum. However, as the adults began to join the more mystic activities, the evil side of the evening became popular. 
Today, the facination with evil has become an everyday occurrence in books, magazines, and filmmaking. Writers such as Stephen King explore horrifying events which would nor­mally seem impossible, but after reading his works seem to be happening just around the corner. Horror magazines including "Fan­gora", showing monsters and victims with a great deal of blood and guts, are found on most bookstore shelves. The most famous of all media displaying this is the motion picture. Bil­lions of dollars are made each year on mindless flicks starring ghouls, goblins, ghosts, lunatic axe murderers, aliens from outer space, and even usually harmless animals such as birds, ants, frogs, and most ordinary house pets. 
If all of this is mere fantasy, then why is the subject is so popular? It has to do with the "dark side" within all of us. This is the same force which makes you wa~t to jump when looking over a high ledge, or ride the highest, fastest roller coaster in the world. This adventurous spirit creates an adrenalin high which can be just as good and just as addicting as most drugs. 
Mark Ridgeway r n 
Systems Manager 

Seeing a movie in which every minute most people would be frightened to a near-death point can show off your courage, bring others closer, and boost your ego without actually risking your life. However, it seems that most of today's movies deal so much with reality that paranoia is an evident result. 
The last reason has to do with mere curiosity. The unknown usually does not stay unknown for long because of this instinctive feeling. We hold seances to see if ghosts do exist and to learn if contact with dead spirits is possible. We also explore the possiblities of monsters of this world or some other in the hopes that all species are not yet accounted for. 
As an adult, looking at the way Halloween is today, I feel that the true meaning of the night has been lost, but that the fun of the celebration has not been lost. There are still costumes which depict courageous heros and beautiful prin­cesses, and cute little boys and girls, dressed as pumpkins and cowboys, who still enjoy the mystery and magic of Halloween in the sense it was meant to be when the tradition first began. 
Monday, October 31, 1988 The Observer page 3 
•

Future election 1n Israel creating more violence 
Associated Press 
BElT SAHUR, Occupied West Bank -Israeli soldiers shot to death a Palestinian on Sunday, and Arab sources said 21 others were wounded in clashes across the occupied lands. A firebomb hurled at an Israeli bus injured five people, the army said. 
Extra soldiers were deployed 
OPEN FOR DINNER CARRY-OUTS AVAILABLE FINE EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT 
throughout the territories for fear Tuesday's national elec­tions would bring more vio­lence. Troops in black berets were seen moving into a girls high school in Bethlehem. 
The military didn't say how many extra soldiers were put on patrol. 
Israeli officials have said election day may bring an up­surge in violence in the 10­

PRIVATE PARTIES UP TO 100 PEOPLE YOUR HOST -ROBERTO PARISI 
"The Italian Restaurant" 
Spaghetti Mostaccioli Linguini Gnocchi. Pizza Ravioli Tortellini Arancini Manicotti Bracioletti Filone lmbottito Lasagna A La Parisi's Fettucini Alfredo Bucatini Con Broccoli Alia Calabresa All Agllo E Olio Chicken Cacciatora Breaded Veal Cutlet A La Parmigiana 
232-4244 
1412 S. South Bend Ave. South of JACC 
month Palestinian revolt against Israeli rule. At least 305 Palestinians and six Israelis have died since the uprising, known by its Arab name "in­tefadeh," broke out Dec. 8. 
The uprising and the future of the occupied territories have become the major issue in Is­rael's parliamentary elections. 
Near the West Bank town of Jericho, an attacker threw a 
Open Tues-Sat Dinner 4:00pm-11 :OOpm 
firebomb that destroyed an Is­raeli bus, the army command said. 
Four of the injured were brought to Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem, hospital spokes­woman Ruth Mekel said. She said two were soldiers. No details were immediately available on the fifth injured passenger. 
Underground Palestinian leaders called a general strike 

Dorit SquanderTime. 
:\rHI plar1 it. And lllake the most of it for sollll' of this cour1trv's i<lrgPst acln•rtisPrs. " 
l.vo Hurrwtt U.S.A., the world's tl'Ilth l<lrgest ac!Vl'rtising agency, 
Buy It. 
is looking for entry-level recruits for their Media Department. 
You'll learn about planning and buying advertising time and space. This presentation is open to graduate and undergraduate students of every major. 

So come find out more about Media, a career that puts plenty of time in your hands. 
ACareer In Media·Tuesday, November I, 8:00pm· University Club 
I
Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 

\\,• 11 "''''"'1111'"' ~Will • 111'111.,. ,.lfl,llllf'. A11111WI. H·\Sf: lle•111m e•. 11/w II & lit•clie•I:.Ctiii/11/CI/IIfle'IJ/1/i f.'ch."'"· /im11 Wille!: fir.;llimllcls, !ie'lle'lfli MoiC/r.i, /lull" flem/1 II./ 1/e'/11:. f.:,.eNe•t: 1\1'//u~.~. !:mil. Marta~. Me'/ i11111Jicl'. Me'/ icmiJ/cl's Ou>llers o/ Cilim.Wil~ Norlflll'e's/ lm/ie/1/IJ. Miller. \/" S11111f" l·i .. :C'II!·i""'' I·... .\11wll. Iilcl\lllllln/e•. fl•l'·'im/Se•1 e'll·flp/1/le'YIIIJiiwud l'lliliiiMom:,, /'illslmn: l'rciC'/C'r& (iw~tl!lc•. H1i1uml'""'Vicks. Sum.,.,lllle'. St lwllle•l: Se•t e'll·l )1 I' SA. Slllr·l\isl. 'fNewli""· 1Yopim11<1. ll11ile•c/ Air/ill<'.\. lllloml 
Tuesday to coincide with the parliamentary elections, and they joined Moslem fundamen­talists urging another strike for Wednesday. 
An army spokesman said a Palestinian teen-ager died when soldiers fired plastic bul­lets on youths in the Christian village of Beit Sahur, the site of the fields where the Bible says shepherds first learned of the birth of Jesus. 
Marcos on trial in US for stealing 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Former Philip­pine first lady Imelda Marcos arrived by luxury jet and limousine along with her en­tourage Sunday to face ar­raignment on federal charges she and her husband looted their homeland of $100 million. 
The Marcoses were indicted Oct. 21 on charges they em­bezzled more than $100 million and used it to buy New York real estate, art and other prop­erty. If convicted on the main racketeering charge, they could receive up to 20 years in prison. 
Defense lawyers convinced 
U.S. district Judge John Keenan that Marcos, 71, was too frail to make the 9-hour flight. His arraignment was postponed at least until a government physician examines him. 
Defense lawyers have said Mrs. Marcos, 59, would plead innocent. 
Willy Paderon said Marcos, whose 20-year rule was ended by a military-civilian revolt that lifted Corazon Aquino to power, was abandoned by the United States. 
'We wanted to show Mrs. Marcos and President Marcos that there are Filipinos who still support them," Paderon said. "I hope they will be vind­icated of all these politically motivated charges that are coming left and right." 



page 4 The Observer Monday, October 31, 1988 


Monday, October 31 , 1988 The Observer page 5 
Ghosts roaming Cline Ave. in Ind. 
Associated Press 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. -Years ago a woman's two children drowned along the banks of the Calumet River. Now her spirit returns each Halloween to search, but she never seems to find them. 
So goes one version of the story of the Cline A venue Ghost, who, along with a differ­ent apparition known as the Cudahy Ghost, roams a popular haunting strip along Cline Avenue. 
Charlie Tinkham, a 59-year­old Hammond resident and professor at Purdue University-Calumet, said there are several versions of why these ghouls continue to stalk one of Indiana's most danger­ous highways. 
Another version portrays the ghost as a broken-hearted soul who supposedly went to the river to kill herself. 
Yet another adaptation has the ghost nagging her husband so incessantly to return to their old neighborhood in West Gary that he killed and buried her there. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS & STAFF DO YOU NEED A GOOD SHOT IN THE ARM? GET YOUR FREE FLU SHOTS 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31 LIBRARY CONCOURSE 9:00am-­9:00pm TUESDAY,NOVEMBER1 LAFORTUNE (RM. 1 08) 9:00am-­9:00pm WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2 LIBRARY CONCOURSE 9:00am-­9:00pm THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3 LAFORTUNE (RM. 108) 9:00am-­9:00pm 
THIS SERVICE IS OFFERED BY UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES IN COOPERATION WITH STUDENT AFFAIRS AND THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT. 
CAMPAIGN '88: THE REAL ISSUES 
Notre Dame Student Government PRESENTS A DEBATE BETWEEN 

LIBERAL VIEWS VS. 
John Gilligan  -Professor & Director of Institute  
for International Peace Studies  
and  

Joseph Bauer-Law Professor, University of Notre Dame 
On November 1st at 7:30 p.m. In the Norman Barry Courtroom of the Notre Dame Law School. 
And then there's the other spirit that haunts Cline Ave­nue. 
Every year a crowd ranging from dozens to hundreds gat­hers near the Calumet River west of Cline A venue to spot the Cudahy Ghost, Tinkham said. 
This spirit, also a woman, was supposed to have taken a taxi ride to a Mexican neigh­borhood in East Chicago some­time around Halloween of 1966. The cabdriver took her to the address and, after dropping her off, realized she hadn't paid her fare. 
He returned to where he'd left her. But the matronly lady answering the door denied seeing his passenger. She later brought out a photo of her daughter, which the cabbie recognized as his passenger. 
"She's been dead for years," said the woman. 
Tinkham said the tellers of this story always claim it's true. 
"The truth is that there are stories like this in every major American city," he said. "It's a very popular urban legend " 
-
,. 
Obeerver I Jennifer

Huey Lewis and the News? 
get into the Halloween spirit by attending the "Come Megan Siczek, center, and (left to right) Lisa Fox, as the person you most wish were dead" party at 
Woman in South found to eat dirt 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Miss. -Once 
Guady Duron, Anna Stachpagle and Kelly Krauser Flanner Hall. 

••..I_III_I_



........................ 
-CHIMES LITERARY MAGAZINE 
NOW ACCEPTING PLAYS POEMS SHORT STORIES SUBMIT TO 303 MADELEV A BY TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22 FOR FALL CONSIDERATION
-

CONSERVATIVE VIEWS 
Charles Rice  -Law Professor,  
University of Notre Dame  
and  

James Carberry -Professor Chemical Engineering, University of Notre Dame 
~ 
4 

...... ...... 
...._IIIIIIII_•......
IIII-II:M 


Viewpoint
page 6 Monday, October 31, 1988 
Service enhances a theology class 
Editor's Note: Students interested in taking Theology and Community Ser­vice should go to the Center for Social Concerns to pick up a learning Agree­ment before Nov. 7. There will be a meeting for all interested students on Monday, Nov. 7 at 4:15p.m. at the CSC. 
It is special when a student has a chance to take a class that offers a new way of thinking about the world and the people in it. Even more rare is the op­portunity to participate in a class which stimulates change in the way a student reacts to his or her environment. As difficult as these classes are to find, Notre Dame offers one in particular that has given its students the chance to develop and cultivate more than book learning. This class enables a student to experience the chapters of text and incorporate the ideas into weekly tests of values, faith, and incorporate love. The class to which I am referring is Theology and Community Service, and the type of knowledge the student leaves the class with is invaluable. 
Laura Shemer 
guest column 
Hearing the name, Theology and Community Service, one is hardpressed to find a relationship strong enough to merit a semester course. Once the general terms are des­cribed, however, it becomes easy to un­derstand the complimentarity of the two. The community service involved 
ND represses religious diversity Dear Editor: 
The year of cultural diversity is one of the most important developments in recent Notre Dame history. Everyone on campus should profit enormously from the efforts being made. 
There is, however, one curious omis­sion from the program. That is the whole are of religion which, in America certainly, is one of the most important areas of cultural diversity. I find it most strange that this vital area of diversity has been blanked out entirely whereas other universities take it most serious­ly. 
in the course is a a 45-minute visit to two residents of a South Bend nursing home per week. No regulations bind the visitor to certain procedures during their visits. Instead the students are provided with creative freedom for whatever activity they think would most enhance the relationship with their "old person." Often times this in­cludes playing bingo or cards, sharing photos and anecdotes about each other's families, or just sitting and holding hands. The emphasis of the community service aspect is for the stu­dent to serve his or her elderly person in whatever capacity they need, while concentrating on how it feels to be ef­fective and ineffective in fulfilling the "old person's" needs. 
Now the theology part. What does it mean to be a Christian? Many would argue that simply attending weekly liturgy is all that God demands of those professing to be Christian. But what sort of example do we see in the Bible through Jesus? Certainly not one who is just regurgitates a listing of guidelines by which to live. Jesus was a man of action. He befriended, sup­ported, and guided many of the most despised people of his time. Instead of reciting rhetoric to closed ears, Jesus showed how to live as a good person and not just how to act like one. Through his example, we can learn how to better ourselves, how to befriend, support, and guide a group of people who need it most in our time, the elder­ly. 

The subject matter of the class is dif­ficult for the average twenty year old student to look straight in the eye. In the most vibrant, vital years of one's life, it is often difficult to think about-­and sometimes debilitating to deal with--issues of the elderly and dying. As students in an especially active uni­versity, it is thought morbid and depresSing to consider what it's like to be old, to live in a nursing home, or to be facing an impending death. Each student comes into class with his or her own experiences and concerns, making them strong in some areas and weak in others. The starting point for each student is acknowledged and reflection in these areas often times helps the stu­dent to place fears aside and to refocus on the helping aspect of the class. 
In addition to the visits, the class meets to discuss theological issues raised in readings and in the interac­tions with "old people." A wide variety of topics ranging from the grace of God to Jesus as a Servant are discussed not only in the framework of theological readings, but also in terms of what that means for us, as humans. This aspect of the course also raises issues which are as unique as the student who comes to the class. Some doubt the place of God--or even God's existence--in their own lives. Many question their faith when it seems our "ever-loving" God seems to play cruel tricks on us. There are students who question the form of God in which they want to believe. A wide variety of topics is brought to each 
P.O. Box Q 
At another church-related university (Emory) there is a kosher counter in the dining halls to make Jewish students feel welcome, yet nowhere at Notre Dame is kosher food available. Black Muslims now constitute the third larg­est religious group in the American mil­itary forces, yet nowhere is there a suitably oriented prayer room on campus. The religious needs of about 800 Notre Dame students are dis­regarded in the sense of providing chapel or office space for religious leaders. Yet Brandeis University, a predominantly Jewish school, has built a chapel on campus for Catholic stu­dents. And many other church-related universities make such space available to other Christian and Jewish chaplaincies. 
Must we persist in this ghetto-like avoidance of the most important of cul­tural diversities? It is this attitude that makes Notre Dame so oppressive a place for non-Catholics. I hope this at­titude can change within the University as it has within American culture at large. 
James F. White Professor of Theology Oct. 28, 1988 
Hedwig children appreciate tickets 
Dear Editor: 
We wish to thank the many generous students who donated their Air Force game tickets for use by children in the St. Hedwig Outreach Program. The youngsters involved in the program en­joyed their trip out of usual surround­ings into the spirit and fun of cheering the Irish to victory from the student section. We welcome your support and send along a warm "thank you" from the kids themselves. 
Beth Apone John Failor Rob Hogan 
Maylee Johnson Fr. Tom Streit Oct. 28, 1988 

Doonesbury 
(:3()()0 CV&NIN6. TOOAY, IN AN A570N15HIN6 7VRN OF £3.VENT5, 8U5H 5CRJPTa'R./TEI<. P&66Y "RJINT5 0' U6HT'' NOONAN [}f;(1.Af<U) TH£3. &/..13C.TION OFF/-I 
OAUYOV&R.! 
PU8i/C ReACTlON 70 N&W5 OF TH/3 5HOI<1CN&l? CAMPAIGN a'AS &CliTAT!C. TH/3 VIC& PR&51t:J/3NT, a'H/1£ a&ARJ.,Y 5U/?PR/5t{} 8Y H/5 HAN{)I.[;R'5 {)!3Cf5/0N, WA5 
PHIW50PHICAL. WH&N H£3. MliT WITH R&roR:f£3.1<5 TOCJAY. 
I 

class meeting allowing for supportive, yet challenging, questions of what it means to be "good Christians." 
Theology and Community Service asks many unsettling questions. The nature of the questions requires that each student reflects within herself and reach for a greater understanding of who God is to her and what that means for her life. The pondering and ques­tioning makes each student vulnerable as she or he exposes weaknesses or fears, but the atmosphere of the small group discussion, provided in class time, allows for sensitive and respect­ful support and guidance. 
It is understood that each person has a unique opinion and insight into the question of God and the elderly, and it is understood that the way we develop as students and as people is to share those feelings without fear of reprisal or of being ostracized. On the contrary, the class nurtures the development of individual nuances in each person's the­ology and respects that difference. Not every question is answered or every fear allievated, but for the student will­ing to take the risk of facing the ques­tions, the outcome can be a positive change to a closer relationship to God andlor oneself. When considering the meaning of this sort of peace, it is no surprise that this class is a special one to the University. Laura Sheffler is a senior psychology major and took Theology and Commu­nity Service last spring. 
H£3.Y, IT'5 NIN£3. f3}(7"RA OAY5 RJR. 
TH& 7RAN51T!a/. tf/15 CAN U515 
113M. IF IT'S OV&R., IT'5 OV&R. 
YOfJ'R/5 NCJT 60/NG 70 CATCH M& ti/HIN/NG A80fJTIT -n-t&WAY7H&Y MIGHT liPIN .....:''2_......... 
805TON' /r' 

Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day 
"From ghoulies and ghosties and long-leggety beasties and things that go bump in the night, Good Lord, deliver us!" 
Cornish prayer 

f}{J/<AK/5, OFF CAMPAIGNING 
50M/31A/H~, COUW NOT 138 FOUNO FOR COMM&NT. 
3:­
-~e-Obse.~~er-­--=-.1-=Il ----&.~Y~ ---­ Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef Managmg Ed1tor  . Chns Murphy Chrts Donnelly  Busmess Manager Advert1smg Des1gn Manager  John o~nder Molly Killen  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Cocc1a  AdvertJsmg Manager  L1nda Goldschmidt  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Product1on Manager  Bernadette Sh1lts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa•nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pollc1es of  V1ewpomt Ed1tor  Matt Slaughter  Systems Manager  Mark R1dgeway  
the adm1mstratton of etther 1nstitutton. The news IS reponed as accurately and obJeCtively as  Sports Ed1tor  Many Strasen  Controller  Todd Hard1man  
poss•ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinron of the maJOrity of the EdrtonaJ Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  GraphiC Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column  Samt Mary·s Ed1tor  Sandy Cerimele  
space IS available to all members of the community and the Jree e~press1on of vary•ng  Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  
op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  

----~-----------~~ --~~ 
Accent
Monday, October 31, 1988 page 7 
Monsters of Rock jam at JACC 
H 
PAUL PILGER than 30,000 over the summer "Eagles Fly," which fit accent writer months, they looked right at surprisingly well into Van home in the small basketball Halen's riveting, 90 decibal alloween festivities got arena. Lead vocalist Sammy show. And, late in the show, started a wee bit early as Hagar sang, shouted, and Hagar admitted once again, this summer's Monsters of sometimes screamed out the "I Can't Drive 55." Rock headliners took the lyrics to tunes from Van Drummer Alex Van Halen stage last night at the Joyce Halen's latest albums, 5150 has a speeding problem as ACC. In the spirit of the and OU812, as well as the few well. Throughout the evening, holiday, Van Hal en brought songs that remain in the live he displayed what might be Notre Dame a monster of its set from the David Lee Roth the quickest and surest own in the form of a ferocious era, like "Panama" and double-bass footwork in the two hour rock'n'roll show. "Ain't Talkin' 'Bout Love". realm of rock drumming. Though the band had been Hagar also performed an Certainly, OU812 includes 
playing to crowds of more acoustic version of his song, some of Alex Van Halen's hottest drum licks (or "Al­licks") yet recorded, and last night his solo, during which his entire set was elevated above the stage, highlighted his superior playing. 
As for the other half of the rhythm section, bassist Mi­chael Anthony held down the heavy back beat while supply­ing high, backing vocals. For the encore (which included "You Really Got Me," "Girl Gone Bad," and "Rock'n'Roll"), Anthony brought out his bass guitar shaped like a Jack Daniels bottle, which gave the crowd The Obserwr I Zobn (Jry something else to cheer 
Sammy Hagar and Eddie Van Halen rock the night away.
about. 

For anyone wondering if and splits, and soloing with the OU812 album had more Eddie Van Halen's visit to the absolute precision as a ciga-drive and raw energy than Betty Ford Clinic earlier this rette burned at the end of his the selections from 5150. But, year has effected his playing, trademarked red and white Van Halen proved that, in a it hasn't. He gave a typically Kramer guitar--the usual leg-live setting, they are still the 'Eddie' performance, leaping endary guitar hero stuff. world's greatest hard rock into the air for scissor kicks Overall, the material from band. 
Washington Hall haunted by mystery ghost 
JULIE RYAN 
Y
roof and a ghostly figure was accent writer seen. The strangest account of a ou are walking through ghost sighting was by Pio Washington Hall late at Montenegro. He saw a ghost night, when all of a sudden, with a phantom horse mount­the lights go out. You're ing the steps to the second afraid of the dark. You want floor on the southside of the to light a candle, but you're building. afraid of fire. You hear the In an effort to put the ghost stairs creak, a horn blow, a stories to rest, in 1968, four toilet flush, but no one is Notre Dame juniors went on there. It's Halloween 1988, a ghosthunt. One of the stu­and it's back--the ghost of dents disguised himself as Washington Hall. George Gipp, in a white sheet 
There are many ideas of and football helmet. The who this ghost could be: others took pictures of him on 
* The ghost of George Gipp, the stage. who slept on the stairs of The ghost's footsteps rever­Washington Hall the night berated, sounding like a before he contracted the dis­heartbeat. Suddenly, the ease that killed him. lights went out. Two of the 
"' A steeplejack who fell to students tried to turn on the in 1985. A group of students toilets flushing by themselves about the whole situation,
his death from a loft in the lights, but they couldn't be­gathered on the stage in and footsteps creaking up the "No self-respecting 107 yearroof when building the hall in cause a force held the switch Washington Hall with a ouiji stairs as he stood at the top. 
old theater should be without 1886. down. board. They asked the ghost, Syburg agreed that, "The its ghost stories. Theater is
* A cavalry soldier who was The students heard creak­"Do you want to speak to building is old, and it does magic to begin with, so it is a killed and buried on the hal­ing steps and saw a flash of us?" The reply was, "No. creak alot. But there were natural place for stories." lowed burial grounds where light before racing out of Goodbye." other strange things. I would Barkes said. the campus is today. Washington Hall. One student Professor Syburg, from the leave my keys hanging in the Professor Nevert, of the 
Throughout the years there commented on the experience Notre Dame communication lock on the door and all of a sceneography department in have been many accounts of saying, "Something does ex­and theater department con­sudden they would start Washington Hall, agreed with 
-
the ghost. In 1946, locked ist. We all saw something in firmed that there were odd swinging by themselves." Barkes. "Most good theaters doors were reportedly there." happenings in Washington Tom Barkes, manager of are haunted. It's a place
opening and slamming. There The last recorded corres­Hall. Living there as a stu­Washington Hall, is skeptical where the human spirit is cel­were footsteps heard on the pondence with the ghost was dent, Syburg remembers about the ghost sightings, ebrated," Nevert said. even though he has had an But this doesn't stop 
Bill Watterson

Calvin and Hobbes 
experience of his own. He ex­Reginald Bain, chairman of plains that it was in his im­the communications and agination and had nothing to theater department, from do with the building. hunting for clues to solve the 
Barkes was walking mystery of the ghost of Wash­through the hall, when out of ington Hall. the corner of his eye, he saw Students are just as curious a girl dressed from the 1960's. about this ghost. Every year She had long hair and wore on Halloween, a group holds a wild colored clothes. But seance on the stage in the when he turned his head for a auditorium, hoping to see the closer look, she was gone. ghost. Perhaps this year
Barkes is still doubtful they'll be lucky? 




... 
----------------------------------------~~ 
---~-----~----­
Monday, October 31, 1988
page 8 The Observer 
No.4 Miami 31, No. 5 Nebraska 26, 
E. Carolina 7 Missouri 18
UCLA
Basketball ticket information 
At Lincoln, Neb., Bryan
continued from page 12 
Special to The Observer for lower arena seating will 
Carpenter's 49-yard run with 
get it. 

At Greenville, N.C., Steve 8:24 left helped the Cornhus­
Season basketball ticket The rest of the tickets will 
to Erik Affholter as third­Walsh threw four touchdown kers gain the Big Eight victory.
distribution begins today be distributed according to 
ranked Southern California passes for the fourth straight Nebraska improved to 8-1 
with the senior class. the following schedule : 
took sole possession of first game as the Hurricanes pulled overall and 4-0 in the confer­
Student should bring their Juniors-Tuesday 
place in the Pacific 10 Confer­away in the final quarter. ence. Missouri fell to 2-5-1 and 
copy of the ticket application Sophomores-Wednesday 
ence football race with a 41-20 1-3 in the league. 
and the balance due on the Freshmen-Thursday 
victory over Oregon State on The Hurricanes, 6-1, took 
No. 7 West Virginia 51,
price of the tickets to Gate Beginning Friday, ap­
Saturday. command when Bubba 
Penn State 30
10 of the Joyce ACC after 1 proximately 2000 tickets will 
McDowell blocked a punt early 
p.m. be available to all students 
Peete connected with his fa­in the fourth and Sandy Jack At Morgantown, W.Va.,
According to ticket who did not apply for tickets. 
vorite receiver on touchdown recovered the ball at the East Major Harris ran 27 yards for 
manager Bubba Cunnin­They will be sold on a first­
plays of 21, 11 and 55 yards as Carolina 8. On the next play, a touchdown and threw two 
gham, all students, includ­come, first serve basis until 
the Trojans improved to 5-0 in Walsh hit Andre Brown with a long scoring passes, leading
ing freshman, who applied they run out. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A sportswriters meeting will be held Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the office of The Observer in the third floor of LaFortune. Any questions should be directed to Marty Strasen at 283-1471 or 239-5303. 
-The Observer 

The ND men's soccer team defeated Penn State 3-1 and Boston University 5-1 over the weekend. Tomorrow's issue of The Observer will detail the two matches. -The Observer 
The Irish women's cross country team 
placed second in the MCC meet in Chicago saturday. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer team lost 6-0 to Dayton and fell 2-1 to Xavier over the weekend. Tomorrow's issue of The Observer will feature both those matches. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse team lost 22-3 to Johns Hopkins on Friday. Tomorrow's issue of The Ob­server will have a story on that match. -The Ob­server 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

the Pac-10 and 7-0 overall, their scoring pass, giving Miami a West Virginia to its first 8-0 
best start since 1975. 24-7 lead. 
Basketball season tickets will be distributed this week to only those students who applied earlier for tickets, beginning with seniors today. On Friday, those students who did not apply but still want tick­ets can wait in line for the 2,000 remaining season tickets. -The Observer 
Rockne Memorial hours from fall break to spring break have the building open from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. from Monday to Thursday, from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Friday and from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Recreational swimming hours are from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., 12 noon to 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Monday to Friday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday and 1 
p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7:30p.m. to 11 p.m. on Sunday. Fr. Lange weight room (302) hours are 3 p.m. to 
10:30 p.m. on Monday to Friday and 12 noon to 9 
p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
start in history. 

Irish Outdoors is holding an organizational meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for the spring semester will be discussed. Questions should be directed to Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Obser­ver 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold a meeting at 8:30p.m. on Tuesday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. All those planning to try out for the team or planning to go to Steamboat must attend. Bring money from turtlenecks and the remaninder of the Steamboat money ($240). Those who can not make it to the meeting should call Woodsy at 288­5423. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team is holding signups for anyone wanting to play on the team. Those interested must sign up on the roster and show proof of insurance at the NVA office by Wed­nesday. A team meeting will be held shortly after the roster deadline. Any questions should be di­rected to John Kirk at 289-1124. -The Observer 
LOST GOLD ST. CHRISTOPHER MEDAL. HAS GREAT SENTAMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL3223, DAVE. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WCROSS AT THE ROCK IN THE GYM ON 1G25. IF FOUND CAll JEFF AT 1504. PER­SONAL VALUE-REWARD! 
LOST: CALCULATOR Would the guy who I loaned my calculator to on Sunday (1G23) in the Ubrary (2nd floor) please call me. x3885. 
FOR RENT 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N Breakfast juat 20 mlna. !nom NO. Ideal lor al NO activities. Reserve now. 616-471-5711. 
WANTED 

OVERSEAS JOBS. 
Summer, 
yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtaae­lng.Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
HIRING I Government Job• your area. $15,000-$611,000. Call (602) 838-8885, Ext. 6262. 
I need a ride to Cleveland for T -Giving. leave 11123, return 11127. Will share ex­penses, driving call Chris at 3048. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN CANCUNI Become a College Tours rep­resentative on your campus and get a free trip. Nothing to buy--we provide everything you need. It's easyl Call 1­800-727·0005 
6 PENN STATE GA RICK 4235 
FOR SALE 

AP~£ lie COMPUTER PACKAGE_ in­.eiOding keyboard, green-screen monttor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­pleworks word processor, blank data dis­
ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283­3481. 
................................................................ 
1978 AMC Concord 2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mich tires new battery and brakes, excellent for student. Good car. $1695 Call Chris 284·4288 
RICE WEEKEND Rooms available next to campus JAMISON INN (219) 277-9682 
Fly in your friend for the ND-PSU gamel I've got a round trip ticket from PSU to NO for sale, arriving 11117, departing 11120. I'll even throw in my game licket! Call 3504 
Computerized TYPEWRITER. Excellent condftion. 2996 
TICKETS 
I NEED TIXS FOR All HOME GAMES.272-6306 
WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 will pay CA$h... call Frank or Rob-3137 
I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. 
HELP I I desperately need 2 Penn ST GA's at any cost. $$$$ Please call Stacy at x3771 
HEY! I NEED THREE TICKETS TO PENN STATE CALL CHRIS AT 1644 
NEED 2 (OR 4) RICE GA'S CAll WENDY X1511 $$$ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE CAll SHEILA--271-9365 
NEED PENN GA'S & 1 RICE STUD X­3100 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S PLEASE!!! Will PAY $$ 239-7323 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S I Preferably together. Call Sharon at 288-2314. 
Need Penn St. G.A.s--uncle's company will pay top dollar for tix. Call Mike 3540. 
I NEED 1 OR 2 PENN ST TIX call Deborah 3706 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS! NOONE Will PAY MOREl CAll283-4772 
4 PENN GA'S NEEDED! I Will PAY ANY AMOUNT WITHIN REASON. CAll TIM 1616 OR BRUCE 313-628-4300 8-5p.m. 
CASH CASH CASH I Need 2 Rice GA's or my mom will kill me. Call Dan at 3365. 
Muffin is coming to NO finally but she needs a ticket for PENN STATE (either GA or student) Please call Beth x1264. 
NEED: 2 RICE GA'S 2 RICE STU I 2 PENN STU CALL ROB-277-9438 
I need PENN ST. stud tix-call 3808 
NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S JOE X1728 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 8 pen state tix Please call 44951 
HELP MEl I NEED 1 PENN TICKET! PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 
NEED RICE, P-ST GA TIX. ALSO NEED 
A.F. PROGRAM. CHRIS x1073 
BIG BUCKS AND NO WHAMMIES I I NEED 1 RICE ST. TICKET SO GIVE ME A CALL AND LEAVE A MSSG KEVIN# 271-0359 
HELP! I OUR PARENTS FINAllY LET US GO TO THE USC GAME AND NOW All WE NEED IS AT LEAST 4 TIX TO THE GAME! CALL JULIE AT 4351 OR AMY 271-9885 
PENN STATE 42~ over NO Or so uya my brother. Need 4 GA'a to ahow he'a wrong. Call Shawn at 2380 to help.$$ 
PARENTS COMING. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA' PLUS TWO GA'S FOR FRIENDS. DO NOT RUIN OUR REUNION. x2377 JEFF. 
WANTED: 2 RICE GA'S CAll MIKE X2261 
SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX MONEY MONEY$$ MONEY MONEY Call Shana at X2691, offer her 2 Rice tickets and lislen to what she'll offer you! 
I NEED 1 RICE STUD TIC.-DAN x4115 
I REALLY, REALLY NEED TWO STU­DENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE GAME.CALL CHAD at 1580 . 
................................................................ 
we need PENN TIXIJ 2 GA's would be really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call watter x2151 or michelle x2844 
PENN ST. TIX NEEDED NEED GAa and STUDENT TIX call CHRIS or PAT 2053 or KAY 4853 
I NEED 2 RICE GA's PREFERABLY TO­GETHER. CAll 3023 OR 2999. 
One Rice stud. ticket for sale, $10. Call Chris ASAP, X2923. 
WANTED: tix for Rice and Penn State games. You may call collect at (312 893­3413. Thanks. 
PERSONALS 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338. 
No shaving Basins in Taipei No Circus lunch in Taiwan No Bill Webb Day in the R.O.C. Helpl Reply to: Jim Carroll 
T.I.Y.A.C. Room 902 30 Shin Hai Road, Sec. 3 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 50 FT. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS GROUPS OF 8$435 PP 7 DAYS 1-800-9tiiH245 ANYTIME ARRANGE SMALL GROUP & CRUISE FREE 
HAPPY HALLOWEEN from CLUB 23 Stop by and celebrate with ua. 
"Don't be a Stan" Krafter, Judge, and Celeste 
hi ag. 
SOPHOMORE BARN DANCEfl FRIDAY, NOV 411 BONFIRES! DJI HOT CHOCOLATE! Ilea on ule In clan office In LaFor­tune, Nov 1-3 btw 3-5 $5 per person COME JOIN THE FUNfl 
Want to sell your NO-USC game trip package? Call Molly X1321. 
NEED RIDE·BAY CITY-NOV 5 PAT GREEN 1440 
QUEST FOR THE CROWN Oct. 31-Nov.2 
A week-long adventure to capture the glory for your dorm! OCT.31-NOV.2 
Quest for the Crown-Oct.31 ,Monday WIN,LOSE OR DRAW 4-4:30 COS­TUME PARTY 9-12 Theodore's 
Wed, Nov.2 Quest for the Crown VARI­ETY SHOW 7pm-9pm Theodore's Slart getting an original act together for points for your dorm (talk to your hall president lor details) 
games, contests,tournaments,movies, dances,parties!!l! QUEST FOR THE CROWN Mon, Oct.31-Fri, Nov.4 
ITS COMING I!! 
................................................................ 
DON'T MISS ITII LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES! 
········ciiFiN.iviii:..o.F'.c'AFieEFis..v......... 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3RD, 3-6 
P.M. ST. MARY'S ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
KAREN, HAPPY...WEll HAVE A NICE DAY ANYWAY JOHN END AD 
Is anyone driving to or near Milwaukee on 1 V4 and back 11!6, I NEED a ride. Will share expenses. Please call Chris at x2923. 
Rita Pattaraon Are you still out there? I still want to meet you and I have not seen you since betore the Pitt gamell Please leave me a per­sonal soon. I await your replyl 
Your edmlrer 

IS ANYBODY GOING TO DAYTON THIS WEEKEND, NEXT WEEKEND, OR ANY WEEK-END? WILL PAY$. CALL MARY 284-5128 OR 5117 
I need a carpet an<!Or end table. Call Tony at 3216. 
-
-
TYPING AVAILABLE 287..acJ82 
Matt "Schmeal" Gallagher for VP 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE . ..-CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
CALL OOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237·1949 
Typing. Call Pat 81 271-ll116. Located 2 mi. north of Notre Dame. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY CROSS SYR. IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE FILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580 
LOST RED, BLUE AND GREY SKI COAT FROM SENIOR BAR COAT ROOM $20 REWARD WITH NO QUESTIONS ASKED PLEASE CALL STEVE X-4358 
Found: Kodak camera on the field after the Pitt game. Call Dave at# 4020. 
HELPII I LOST MY KEYS BEFORE BREAK AND MY ROOMMATE Will Kill ME IF I DON'T FIND THEM SOON IF YOU HAVE FOUND A SET OF KEYS WITH 139 ON THE DORM KEYS. PLEASE CALL ME AT # 4205--­THANKS 
lost! Keys on a Notre Dame key ring lost in lewis Hall October 14. H found call Julie at 4143 
FOUNDIII One jean jacket! It was left in our room on October 14. If you are mis­sing a jacket call Jutie or Lenore at # 2198 lo identify or stop by 208 lewis. 
lost: BIG UMBRELLA--Pittsburgh Newsprint. Reward. Call Angela 283 
3440 
···i:~~r~~~~~~;i=~;~i:~~-· 
N.D. letter Sweeter at Sr. ·lila< 
H you picked one up by accident please call Colleen at 272·5891 
This sweater is really important to him and he'd really appreciate anyone who would return ft. Thanks 

,.;·
ltL_______________________________________________________________ 
Monday, October 31 • 1988 The Observer page 9 
Dilucia wins singles title at Fallon Invitational 


By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
This weekend at Notre Dame's Eck Tennis Pavilion, members of the Irish men's 
tennis team payed tribute to former head coach Tom Fallon the only way they 
knew how-they won. The Irish posted a 15-8 overall record in the Tom Fallon-Notre 
Dame Invitational; 5 of the 15 victories were earned by freshman Dave DiLucia. 
Notre Dame placed participants in both the A singles and doubles final matches 
and DiLucia captured the A singles title. 
A good indicator of a team is what the opposition thinks of you. Wiscons on head coach, Pat Klingelhoets spoke highly of both the Irish squad and the quality of the tournament. 
"It is a very well run and good tournament," said Klingelhoets, coach of the chanmpionship doubles team. "Notre Dame has improved a lot and they are going to do some damage in the future." 
"I mixed it up a lot and tried to serve and volley as much as possible," said DiLucia. ''The support of my teammates and friends helped tremendously.'' ''When I felt like giving up, they gave me strength". 
The other Irish competitors were determined to do their own part. Brian Kalbas lost in the second round to eventual semi-finalist John Noble of Ball State, 6-2, 6-2. Kalbas played for 9 hours on Friday and the "tank was on empty", according to Bayliss. 
Walter Dolhare, in the A draw,fell to finalist Mark Leschly of Harvard, 6-1, 6-3. Dolhare, a junior transfer from Austin Peay, defeated an excellent opponent, Brian Uilhein in the second round, 4-6, 7-6(7-5), 6-0. Odland, the biggest suprise of 
The Observer I Scott McCann

the fall season, lost to Scott Hulse in the B draw, 6-7,(2-7), 7-6(7-5), 6-4. 
In the doubles competition, the Irish accumulated a 5-3 record. Notre Dame Junior wing Tim Kuehl and the Notre Dame hockey team rebounded from an 8-3 loss number-one duo of Dave DiLucia-Walter Dolhare advanced to the finals. Yet, they to defeat Rochester Institute of Technology 3-2 In overtime Saturday night at the lost in straight sets, 6-3, 6-2 to Wisconsion's No.2 team of Nelson-Schwartz. Joyce ACC. Steve Megargee details the turnaround beginning on page 12. 
RIT 
continued form page 12 
on the Kleis goal. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to 2-0 with a power play goal just four minutes later. Matt Hanzel received a pass from Tim Kuehl on the right 
circle and beat RIT goalie Fred Abraham for the second score. 
But RIT came back to tie the game in the first six minutes of the third period on goals by Todd Person and Jim Regan. 
The game stayed that way until a short and frantic over­time. Each team had oppor­tunties to score in the first minute of the 10-minute sudden death overtime period, but only the Irish took advantage. 
RIT had three men in front of Notre Dame goalie Lance Madson, but the Tigers failed to convert. In a matter of seconds, Notre Dame's Bob Herber was flying down the right side with the puck. He passed left to Bruce Guay, who shot past Abraham just 42 seconds into overtime. 
Madson recorded 32 saves for Notre Dame, while RIT's Abra­ham turned back 24 Irish shots. 
"There was much less room to roam on the ice," RIT first­year coach Buddy Powers said. "Our guys were consistently picked up and covered. Last night, we we got a lot of second chances at goals, but tonight they did a better job of clearing out." 

RIT certainly did have plenty of chances to score in Friday's game, which opened the Tigers' season. RIT was par­ticulary adept at cashing in on those opportunities in the second period, when the Tigers scored six times to break open a game Notre Dame had led. 
Notre Dame's Bob Bilton scored the only goal of the first period, on assists by Kevin Patrick and Guay. RIT's Regan scored in the first min­ute of the second period, but Notre Dame regained the lead when Kuehl scored at 8:00 of the period. 
From then on, it was all RIT. The Tigers scored three times in a span of three minutes during the middle of the period, then scored twice more to take a 6-2lead into the third period. 
"We had far too many miscues and far too many giveaways, but I think this un­derlies that we are not a highly skilled team," Schafer said after Friday's game. 
Irish 
continued from page 12

Oversize kinko·s· 
ol the three Notre Dame touch­downs. "When you don't relax, you start thinking about things 

Copies the copy center 
a little bit more than you nor­

18187 State Road 23 
mally do." Copy documents up to 24" x36'' 
The Irish offense could muster only two lengthy touch­down drives, of 68 and 67 yards, 

:.tt Kinko·s. the copy center. 271-0398 
-::==================~~~~ after capitalizing on an early
_ fumble in the first quarter. Otherwise, the offense was relatively unproductive. TheGRAD STUDENTS Irish lost two fumbles, one by Tony Brooks in the second
We need your help to Improve Grad Life. at Notre Dame~ 
quarter that made Holtz leery

We eon put your Ideas Into.aeHQn•.. 
of calling the pitch the 

LIMITED TIME COMMITMENT 
Find out where you would like to help. Check out our committees: Help us improve: 
-Travel Grant  -Information  
-Women's Resource  -Publicity  
-Intellectual Life  -Social  

-Campus Housing 
-Ticket Allotment 
-Social Life 
-Library Hours 
-International Grad Sudents 
HOW? 
Come to our Informational Meeting/Social Dinner. 
WHEN: NOV. 1ST WHERE: ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB TIME: 5:30PM Dinner• 6:00PM Presentation 
remainder of the game and an­other by Green in the fourth. Three times the Irish ran only three plays and punted. 
The Navy defensive line con­sistently penetrated into the Irish backfield, beating the Irish off the line of scrimmage. The offensive line, a question mark at the beginning of the season, has been hurting lately because of injuries. 
"I think we lost a unity factor today," said guard Tim Grun­hard, who did not play Satur­day. "There's been a shuffling going around. The offense runs on consistency and streaks and we didn't get ourselves on a consistent streak today. I'm glad we got it out of our sys­tem." 
Heading into this season, Holtz expressed concern about the depth and experience of the Irish offensive line. 
The line answered the ques­tion marks in opening season wins over Michigan and Mic­higan State. Grunhard says the offensive line won't be forced into answering the same ques­tions again. 
"I think it's going to be easy to get up (against Rice)," he said. "We have to play our foot­ball to beat them. We're not just going to lay our helmet on the field and beat them." 
ANY OTHER PROBLEMS? 
ANY SUGGESTIONS? 
gl uate student union-----.-----Unlvelllly ol NotreDame 307 LaFortune 
(219) 239·6963 
The Observer Monday, October 31, 1988
page 10 

Irish volleyball wins international battle with LSU 
By MOLLY MAHONEY deficit into a three-point lead Shewman defensively knocked Sports Writer at 14-11 and then survived 14 the Tigers down and kept them sideouts to claim the victory at down to help the Irish take the 
The Notre Dame women's 16-14. match. volleyball team took on more The second game was played Even the brilliant play of than the Louisiana State tigers at much the same tempo, as LSU's Monica Freitas, who last Saturday night. neither team could maintain tallied 24 kills and 10 digs for 
The Fighting Irish faced an their serve for more than three the match, could not prevent international contingent of points. freshman setter Julie Bremner players from Brazil, Turkey, The twin towers, Waller and from orchestrating a number Sweden and Canada--all trying fellow senior Maureen Shea of brilliant performances from to prove they could put up a took charge though, as Shea led her hitters. fight against the Irish. the offense with five kills and Bremner did it all for the 
Notre Dame, now 12-9, won a Waller controlled the net for Irish, as she contributed 61 as­hard-fought four-game match the defense, contributing three sists for an impressive .500 set­14-16, 15-13, 15-5 and 15-10, but assisted blocks on the last three ting percentage and added 11 not before the Tigers and Irish points of the game. digs, four kills and four total Brazilian Monica Freitas made The Irish hit the ground run­blocks to the Irish cause. the Irish work for every point. ning in the third game after Her sets helped give Waller 
In the first game, Notre evening the score with the another strong outing, as Wal­Dame and LSU exhanged Tigers and winning 15-5 on a ler recorded a team-high 21 points and side outs until the slew of kills from the trio of kills and eight total blocks. Irish managed to grab their Waller, Bennett and Shea. Bennett and Shea followed largest lead of the game at 10-6. Game four saw the return of close behind Waller, adding 19 Seniors Mary Kay Waller and the see-saw style of play that and 18 kills, respectively. Shea Zanette Bennett and sopho­characterized the first two also finished with a team-high more Tracey Shelton all bom­games, but Notre Dame .600 hitting percentage for the barded the Tigers with a series grabbed the lead early and match. of kills and service aces. never relinquished it. 
But the Irish could not main­A balanced offensive attack Shelton stepped into the tain their momentum, as the and the continued strong play lineup once again to provide an­Tigers turned the four-point of Shelton and senior Whitney other fine performance, as she 
teams to get to nationals. big meet is in two weeks," said 
MCC 

Since the MCC Champion­Markezich. "I don't want to get ships were primarily a confi­too excited about the MCC's.
continued from page 12 

dence booster for the team, the You work all season for the pionship meet. runners did not get excessively goal of running at nationals and This means that the Irish will excited about the race. the district meet gets you 
have to defeat one of these "It was good to win but the there." 
Navy 
continued from page 12 
down reception. The Irish settled for a 29-yard field goal by Ho and a 16-0 halftime lead. 
"Fortunately, our defense was ready to compete and really played well,'' said Holtz, "because every time we tried to get something going on of­fense we had a penalty or some­thing. We didn't have any kind of continuity.'' 
Whatever Holtz told his team at halftime had an immediate effect when the teams took the field for the second half. After receiving the kickoff, the Irish went 67 yards on seven running plays, capped off by Ryan Mihalko's one-yard burst for the score. But Tony Brooks' at­tempt for two points off left tackle fell inches short of the goal line, leaving the score 22-0. 
After four fruitless posses­sions, two for each team, Navy received the ball on the Irish 33 after a 10-yard Jim Sexton punt. Quarterback Alton Griz­zard scampered 22 yards around right end on the fifth play of the drive to put the Middies on the board with three minutes left in the third quar­ter. 

But the wind was finally taken out of Navy's sails early in the fourth quarter on a con­troversial fourth down spot after the Midshipmen had driven the ball down to the Irish 30. 
Fullback Deric Sims stretched for what appeared to be a first down but, after the chains were brought out and the ball's position was scrutinized for over a minute, the officials turned the ball over to Notre Dame on downs. 
"I would say that it was a matter of less than a quarter of an inch," said Irish linebacker Wes Pritchett, who was standing right on top of the spot during the deliberation. 
After that, it was merely a matter of the Irish running out the clock on another win, but it was never easy. 
"We like to think that very team has a breaking point ex­cept us." said Rice, who was 9-of-19 for 95 yards and a touch­down through the air. "And we like to think that when the other team reaches their breaking point, we have it in control. We never reached Navy's break­ing point." 
Holtz was a little more direct in his evaluation. 
"People will say, 'Hey, it's a win'," he said. "But let me tell you something. We've got a lot of serious problems. We're glad to get out with a win, but our kicking game is in trouble, we haven't been able to run be­tween tackle-and-tackle all year, and our backs are doing a lot of dancing around. We're not a very good football team right now." 

If}«iregoing to drink and drive at least let the rest of Ll~ kJlCM: 
Reader's Digest 
tallied 13 kills and a team-high 15 digs. 
"I'm really, really pleased," said Irish head coach Art Lam­bert. "This is the best we've played all year. We came back after the first game and just said 'We're not going to lose this thing.' 
"Every win helps you down the road and as the team gets more and more consistent in its play, I think we'll do really well." . 
Saturday night's optimism was a far cry from Friday night's disappointment after the Irish fell to 6th-ranked Ne­braska in three games, 15-12, 15-7 and 15-13. 
The Irish kept the first game close, but the Cornhuskers took the early lead and the Irish could never mount a comeback strong enough to take it away from them. 
A number of service errors and a lack of communication prevented the Irish maintain­ing a consistent attack. 
Notre Dame's offense disin­tegrated in the second game, as the Irish hitters could only manage nine kills for the game. The Irish would fight back only to see the Cornhuskers jump ahead again. 
The Irish, led by Waller's net play, broke out of their two­game trance to gain some mo­mentum in game three, but the jump-serves of Nebraska's Be­cki Bolli broke the Irish and put the Cornhuskers in charge for good. 
"It was not a good night for us," said Lambert. "Nebraska's got a great team and plays great defenses. We played well in spurts and then let them turn it around on us." 
Nebraska's head coach Terry Pettit, who coached Wal­ler on the Olympic B-team last summer, praised the Irish ef­fort. 
"I'm impressed with what Art (Lambert) has done at Notre Dame," said Pettit. "They're a whole level above what they were last year. Notre Dame has a fine team." 
~e~ 
ND Communication and Theatre Film Series at the Snite Museum Film Hotline 239-7361 
BEit'lllA!'I/U "JiWERNIHt Cll.\l.I.L:\l,L'> n 11. .\t \Ttt or: ctii\'AI.IlY IN AN EI'IC"Ii\I.E 01' 1.0\T, COlJIL\<;r A.'\D DEFIANCE. 
"****MAS~fERFUL.
AN AWE-INSPIIUNG EXPERIENCE. 
'BEATIUCE' IS A FILM FOI~·THE AGES." 
-.JJmt.·~ \bnll'ft·. "II IE IH )~I ( )N lll"ltAU> 

~nmunrnnmnmmummumuuumnmmnnnnunmnmnmmnnnmnmnnnnmnnnnmnnnmnmnmnnmmnmnmnnnmmnuunnnnnmnmnmnmnmnnnmmnmunmnmnnnnnnnmmnnmmnmnnmnmmnmmnmnnmnmmnmm 
FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
VINCENT R. RAYMOND 
ASSOCIATE DEAN, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
"BEYOND THE BBA--THE WORLD OF BUSINESS" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1988 
7:30 P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Monday, October 31 , 1988 
The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS 
11:30 a.m. Dept. of Economics Workshop "China's Economic Development Strategies for the Coastal Areas," by Prof. Gao Xian, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4 p.m. Theology Colloquium, "The Relation of Philosophy and Theology," by Father O'Meara, and Prof. Freddoso, Library Lounge. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute and Dept. of Sociology Lecture "Base Ecclesial Communities in the Latin American Church," by Pedro Ribeiro de Oliveira, Room 110 Law School. 
4:15p.m. Peace Institute and Dept. of Government Lecture "International Non-Alignment: The Yugoslavian Experi­ence," by Vladimir Matic, Minister Counselor of Yugoslavian Embassy, Room 121 Law School. 
4:15p.m. Philosophy Dept. Lecture "Causal Decision Theory and Game Theory," by Prof. William Harper, University of Western Ontario, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Psycho," di­rected by Alfred Hitchcock, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Black Cultural Arts Council Meeting in the BCAC Room. 
9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "King Kong," directed by Merian Cooper, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Speidano Romano Baked Sole Baked Ziti Top Round of Beef 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
HALLOWEEN BUFFET Roast Beef Seafood Newburgh Almond Chicken 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Smokers' 49 Prophet gadgets 
50 Contrite 30 Acted violently 1 Like the 
American eagle 53 Clergyman or 5 Athirst college bigwig 
33 Incensed 

10 Eastern church 34 Long-limbed 57 Organictitle 36 Cassowary's kin compound 14 "I cannot tell 
37 Londoner's tax 

58 Not aIa carte
" 
38 Kind of knife 60 Composer15 Turned rigid with 39 Street sign Harold

fear 16 Topsoil 40 Part of I.L.O. 61 Give instruction 17 Preprandial 
41 A suburb of to reading 62 Nobelist Wiesel 
Boston 19-Domini 42 Beat, old style 

63 Secondhand 20 Raiment 43 More pithy 
64 Hair-raising21 Larch 45 Intervals of rest 65 Orlop, for one 
23 Entry 47 Sharif and 25 Close a deal others 

DOWN 
1 Ali chaser 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



2 Touched down  
3 Spirited song  
4 Joys  
5 Worn-out  
6 Sandy's  
comment 13 Frenzied  
7 Nanny 18 Declaim  
8 Pound and 22 Out of town  
Stone  
24 Flynn of flicks 9 Crop up again  
26 Permissible10 Call to arms, to  
Shakespeare 27 A Forsyte  
11 Waiter's friendly  28 Gourmet  
words  29 Carpenter, at  
12 Judge's bench  times  

Berke Breathed The Far Side 

41 Kind of belt 42 Career 44 Beamed 
55 Auricular 56 Strong odor 59 XXVI doubled 
Gary Larson 


Calvin and Hobbes 
11"'5 So.R'( B£1NG SICK... 
ESP£C1Alli A.i ~IG~I. 
~\It--T If ~t'l '51\CK M£. FV\.l T\JBES f!.N\> ~OSESi' W~l If 1\\ri ~'JE mCJPEW..iE!' W\lf1.T If-i\.l't. ~\)()~ l=t>.I\S? IF 11-\IS IS Mt.. 1'-\'i... \.J>ST 
N\G\-\T...ALJY£.-?..:> 

Bill Watterson 
n\£N I CAN FE'N 'f\.\INGS lOOK fOR't-INID AR£ lESS m \lt>.~ING ill£ mMR>RTING Bt.\> "'t> lfl~af "'W.~ A1\Gt.R 
TOMORROW. 'fiOOS UP 100 
LAIE. 


"\l'J ee\<. e\<. \ 
\' S fUO f\lO \N e
fo\ r.o\\' s \\' s 
{" fO 
Quest for the Crown, Quest for Craziness ! 
Today 

lfeefr 1 
I 

Sports
Monday, October 31 , 1988 page 12 
Irish struggle to beat Nav make claim on No. 1 
Defense dominates Wash. St. tops UCLA; USC stays unbeaten as ND escapes 22-7 
Associated Press Assistant Sports Editor By PETE SKIKO 
It's time to shuffle the ballots again. Another 
Notre Dame defeated Navy 22-7 in Baltimore No. 1 team has fallen. on Saturday and will probably control college The top-ranked UCLA Bruins, playing on football's number one ranking this week after their home field at Pasadena, Calif., ble\\< UCLA's loss to Washington State. 21-point lead Saturday against Washington 
But what was reason for celebration in most State and lost 34-30, damaging their hopes for Irish camps was reason for consternation on a national championship. the face of Head Coach Lou Holtz after the "We were the No. 1 team in the country and game. on track to the Rose Bowl and a national cham­
"The first thing I want to do is to compliment pionship and we lost," UCLA quarterback Troy the Naval Academy," said Holtz. "I think they Aikman said. "Words don't describe how I played above their ability and they really took feel." it to us. At the same time, I am very disap­Rich Swinton's 1-yard touchdown run with pointed with the way we played, especially on 6: 21 remaining capped Washington State's com­offense. eback from a 27-6 deficit, but the Cougars 
"Offensively, we just got whipped. The offen­needed a goal-line stand in the final minute to sive line was simply controlled by Navy's de­preserve the victory. fensive line. That forced us to gamble, and we The Bruins, 4-1 in the Pac-10 and 7-1 overall, 
made some mistakes when we passed and drove to the Washington State 6-yard line with pitched wide. We just weren't very sharp on 35 seconds left, but four straight incompletions offense today at all." by Aikman ended the threat. 
Holtz was not just trying to fire his team up The Cougars are now 2-3 in the Pac-10 and to play hard for the remainder of the season. 5-3 overall. The Irish truly could not put the clearly inferior No. 3 Southern Cal 41 , but feisty Midshipmen away until late in the 
Oregon St. 20

fourth quarter. The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Not that they didn't have their chances. But 
Irish defender Jeff Aim (90, with ball) recovers a first quarter fumble Rodney Peete threw three touchdown passes 
nearly every time the Irish threatened to take 
by Navy quarterback Gary Mcintosh to set up Notre Dame's first
control, they self-destructed in some area. 
touchdown. Also In on the play is defender Frank Stams (30). see UCLA, page 8
On Navy's second play from scrimmage, quarterback Gary Mcintosh fumbled and the Irish recovered on the Middie 27. Six plays later, Irish QB Tony Rice found Derek Brown crossing 
Holtz puts heat on offensive line 
in the end zone for a 10-yard touchdown pass 
and a 7-0 Notre Dame lead. By GREG GUFFEY "It was disappointing because of the standard and 
Navy ran three plays and punted following Sports Writer level we have," Holtz said. "The thing that concerns Anthony Johnson's kickoff and it appeared me is that we didn't play to our expectations on offense. Notre Dame would try to put the game out of BALTIMORE--Moments after a lackluster 22-7 Irish Our offensive line got beat up." reach early. But after driving 33 yards into victory over an inspired Navy squad, the reporters Notre Dame gained 267 yards on the ground and 129 Navy territory on the next series, Tony Brooks covering Notre Dame huddled around a television set in the air. While those statistics looked impressive on fumbled a Rice pitch and Navy recovered. in the interview room, watching the Maryland-North paper, they didn't come as easily and did not look as 
Mter Navy's fourth punt (the Middies had a Carolina game on a local television station. good on the field. total of 14 first-quarter yards), the Irish.largely As Irish coach Lou Holtz entered the room, someone The offense appeared lethargic at times, never ob­behind the running of tailback Mark Green, suggested turning the game off in order for Holtz to taining the unity it exhibited in the opening seven went 68 yards in seven plays, culminating with speak. Holtz, though, had other ideas. games. Receivers dropped passes with running room Rodney Culver's 22-yard touchdown run. But "I'd like to see a good football team," he said, motion­ahead, backs lost key fumbles and linemen missed im­Reggie Ho missed the extra point wide right, ing to leave the game on. portant blocks. quashing some of the Irish momentum. And Holtz wasted little time explaining that he hadn't By no means was it a typical offensive performance 
Navy could go nowhere on its next series and seen a good football team, especially on offense, Sat­from the team that could soon be No. 1 in the country. the Irish took over on their own 39 with three urday afternoon in the stadium that houses the owners "It's more or less a rhythm," tailback Mark Green minutes to play in the half. Mter moving of the longest losing streak in American League said of the Irish offense. "I think things on offense hap­quickly down the field through the air, Notre baseball history. pen in a rhythmic pattern. Things were disrupted Dame faced second down at Navy's 17. Rice hit "We're not a good football team right now," Holtz today." Brown at the five yard-line, but the freshman said. "We're struggling in a lot of areas." "I think we weren't as relaxed as we usually are," tight end dropped what would have been a first-The area that felt the brunt of Holtz's criticism was said freshman fullback Rodney Culver, who scored one 
the offense, particularly the inability of the offensive 
see IRISH, page 9 

see NAVY, page 10 line to control the line of scrimmage. Inside Sports 
Irish team effort takes MCC title 
Volleyball tops LSU page 10 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO rett finished third in 25:01. and Cahill that particularly 
Dllucla wins singles title page 9 
Sports Writer Jim Westphal from Loyola pleased Piane. (Ill.) finished second in 24:14. "This was the best Mulvey 
Basketball ticket Information page 8 
With its back against the Loyola, despite hosting the looked all year," said Piane. wall, the Notre Dame men's meet and being designated as "He couldn't have come up cross country team turned in a "the team to beat" by Notre with a better race at a better 'Different' ND rebounds revitalized performance at the Dame head coach Joe Piane, time. The same goes for Cahill. Midwestern Collegiate Confer­was unable to upset the Irish "Their runs are going to 
to earn split with RIT
ence Championships held on and finished second. serve as a confidence booster Saturday in Chicago. The secret to the Irish's suc­for the district meet coming up By STEVE MEGARGEE
With the District IV meet just cess was a strong overall team in two weeks," continued was the overtime victory that
Assistant Sports Editor 
around the corner, the Irish effort. The third, fourth and Piane. "None of their perfor­gave the Irish a split with RIT needed to bounc~ back from fifth runners all ran well, which mances came as a surprise; The Notre Dame hockey and brought the team's record disappointing performances in solidified the Irish overall per­we've just been waiting for team lost 8-3 Friday in the first to 2-4. the past three weeks. formance. them to come around." of a two-game series with the "We had a wholesale change 
And bounce back they did, in Junior Tom O'Rourke, senior The meet also showed that Rochester Institute of Technol­of players overnight," said the form of running as a team. Rick Mulvey, and sophomore the Irish can run better. ogy, then looked like an en­Irish coach Ric Schafer. "The The team had five runners in Ryan Cahill finished fifth, None of the runners have tirely different group of results were favorable. For the top ten places, all of them ninth, and tenth in the meet, reached their potential, and players in a 3-2 overtime win some guys, it was their first big running the 8000-meter course respectively, which put the they hope this potential will be Saturday. varsity game. Just about every­in under 25:30. Irish in command at the finish realized at the District IV meet Well, actually it practically one got their chance." 
"This was the most aggres­line. on November 12. was an entirely different group Sophomore Craig Kleis, one sive run for the team in a The District IV meet, which of players who took the ice for of those new faces, got the Irish while," said Irish head coach "It was wonderful that Ron will be attended by such power­Notre Dame on Saturday. started Saturday night byJoe Piane. "The guys ran like won the meet," said Piane, houses as Wisconsin, Mic­Mter seeing his team suffer scoring the first goal of the they wanted to win." "but the team couldn't have higan, Michigan State, and consecutive 8-3 losses at home game at 5:46 of the second per­
In a field of eight teams and won without the great perfor­Central Michigan, will qualify (to Alaska-Anchorage on Tues­iod. Rob Bankoske and Roy78 runners, Irish senior Ron mances from O'Rourke, Mul­four teams to the NCAA Cham-day and RIT on Friday), six Bemiss each recorded assists Markezich won the meet in vey and Cahill." new faces were inserted into 
see MCC, page 10 see RIT, page 9
24:01. Senior captain Dan Gar-It was the running of Mulvey Saturday's lineup. The result 

