Thanks for the I . -6-I
/ ETC.:New Smithereens album review 
memories... 
Sunny and warm today, high in the 60s. Sunny Saturday, 
:1;·:
high of 65.

IVIEWPOINT: Finals and God 

VOL. XXI, NO. 133 
•

Awards g1ven at SMC convocation 
By KATIE KEARNEY and MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporters 
Awards to graduating seniors, faculty promotions, and a speech by the president of the College marked the Honors Convocation held at Saint Mary's Thursday night. 
"The Honors Convocation is a chance to gather as an aca­demic community and honor faculty and students alike," said Saint Mary's President William Hickey in an address to the convocation audience. 
"You make all of us proud to be members of the Saint Mary's community," said Hickey. 
Awards were presented to students and faculty in ceremonies at 0'-haughlin Auditorium, including medals to co-valedictorians Joan Bout­ton and Gretchen Gilcrest. 
Students Meghan Rafferty and Mary Malina were each presented with National Asso­ciation of Intercollegiate Ath­letics Academic All-American awards. Only 37 of these awards were presented throughout the country. 
Sister Elena Malits, profes­sor of religious studies, was 
see AWARDS, page 12 
FRIDAY, APRIL 29 1988 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
•

Girl recover1 ng, but sti II in danger 
By REGIS COCCIA day the doctor was hopeful. News Editor There are some ups and downs but I feel her condition is im-
Melissa Sauceda, the girl in-proving," he said. jured during last Friday's An Sauceda, who likes to be Tostal Keg Toss, has been called Missy, is an 18-year-old moved out of the intensive care high school senior from Wes­unit at Saint Joseph's Medical laco, Tex. She was visiting Center but her condition friends on campus when she remains serious, the hospital was accidentally hit in the head said Thursday. by a keg. Sauceda remained in 
The hospital said Sauceda's critical condition last weekend condition is no longer critical until Sunday, when she but she is acutely ill and her regained consciousness, vital signs may be unstable. Leveille said. 
"She's doing better but she's "The doctor is satisfied with still sick," said Director of her progress," Leveille said. Campus Ministry Father "He's very hopeful, but head Andre Leveille. "Sometimes injuries are difficult to deal she's very lucid and can sit up with. I myself feel she's going and talk and other times she to pull through all this." gets very sleepy and Leveille said he feels withdrawn." Sauceda's parents, who flew to 
Leveille, who has been visit-South Bend last Friday, are ing Sauceda every day since "holding up well." the accident, said Sauceda's It was not known Thursday doctor was optimistic about the how long Sauceda will remain girl's condition. "Even vester-in the hospital Leveille said. 

exams signal the year's end, the grotto remains one of flickering candle flames on a dark night. As final of the few tranquil sites here. 
The rough rocks of the grotto absorb the dim glow 
Hundreds protest Noriega's rule 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama-­Hundreds of demonstrators set up flaming barricades on the streets of the capital Thursday in a protest calling for the ouster of military strongman Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. 
Hours before the demonstra­tion, government security agents arrested 30 people in a crackdown on opposition ac­tivists. Others were being sought by police. 
Attorney General Carlos Vil­lalaz told a news conference those arrested were planning a three-day campaign of vio­lence which he said may have included tampering with two locks of the Panama Canal. 
Among those arrested was elect of the Panama Canal So­ciety of Professional Engineers. 

In a statement, the society called it "one more proof of the constant violation of human rights by the Defense Forces of the Republic of Panama." 
Riot police lobbed tear-gas canisters and fired birdshot into the air to break up small pockets of demonstrators on the Via Espana, a main thoroughfare in Panama City. Barricades of burning tires, garbage and boxes blocked some side streets. 
Several arrests were re­ported. 
The protesters, some on bal­conies high above the burning rubbish, chanted, "Get Out, Noriega ! " "Justice ! " and --a derogatory reference to Noriega. 
"We are civilistas and we want democracy and justice in Panama!," shouted a middle­age woman. Civilistas refers to supporters of the National Civic Crusade, which has or­ganized protests against Noriega since June. 

This is the last regular issue of The Observer before sum­mer vacation. The Observer will resume its regular pro­duction on Wednesday, Aug. 
24

Enrique Marquez, president-"Down With Pineapple Face!" 
1170 

Student response to
1085 


task force reports 1n 

By KENDRA MORRILL "The student body made its Assistant News Editor opinion very clear on some is­
669 

lsues; a consensus was The results of the student reached on the issues," Paese 
government survey on the said. task force reports concerning One of the questions con­
I
f;i ;·· 
.··.•..
301 

Residentiality and Whole cerning residentiality that in­
Health and the Use and Abuse cited a large response was:
I
111
71 

of Alcohol have been tab­"Should the University bring ~--~----~r~--~~~~rL---~~~~L---~--~ 
{ ulated, and show "clearly a more minority students into NO NO NO NO < lot of trends," said Mike the University?"Paese, student body vice The results showed 60 per­
I 
j 
~~ • . ..•. 1\ .-••~ 

Should Notre Dame Do you feel the Do you agree with Should the president. 
cent of women and 53 percentbring more University should the policy University institute ~~-Paese said student govern­of men answering affirma­minorities into the prohibit the public recommendation co-residential ment "didn't have any tively to this. "The students'University? use of alcohol at prohibiting evening housing? (.;; 
preconceived notions" about answers show them to be gen­what the responses would be. erally in favor of bringing
tailgaters? football~a~es? .cc,.,,,,,,.. ., i•li The actual responses did minorities to campus," said 
reveal certain trends, he said, Tom Doyle, student body
Selected It f The Observer I Geoff Sauer resu • rom the student government survey of student reactions to the task force reports especially in the areas of co­see TASKS, page 12
Issued earlier this month. residentiality and alcohol. 
Fnday, Apnl 29, 1988
page2 The Observer 


In Brief ND must give more 
Rental trucks for clubs hauling students' luggage home must be registered at either the Main Gate or the East Gate upon arrival. Trucks may load only at the Lyons basketball courts, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore parking lot, or the Stepan outdoor basketball courts. -The Observer 
Handicapped parking is available at Notre Dame for commencement week. Interested parties should con­tact Security or the Registrar's office. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Anti-nuclear activist Dr. Helen Caldicott will speak on May 5 as part of he ground-breaking for the Theodore 
M. Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The lecture is scheduled for 4 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 
Good news and bad news ... Class of '89 Dogbooks are coming, but not until next fall. Watch for details in August. -The Observer 
Tryouts for readers for the Senior Last Trip to the Grotto on Thursday, May 12 will be held today at 3:30p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Tryout material will be provided. Contact Matthew Zyniewicz at 271-0039 in you have any questions. -The Observer 
The Center for Social Concerns celebrates its fifth anniversary today with a 5 p.m. mass as Sacred Heart Church followed by a receptiontlinner in the South Dining Hall. All are welcome. -The Observer 
A rally for social justice will be held at 4 p.m. today on the steps of the Administration Building. It is sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network, with Pax Christi, NAACP, Amnesty International, BALSA, the Wo­men's Caucus and Cheshire. -The Observer 
Seniors' Last Day of Class dance tickets will be available at the door. The dance starts at 9 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the JACC. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's Chimes literary magazine will be distributed on campus on Monday, May 2. -The Observer 
The Campus Bible Fellowship willsponsor "Food 
and Fellowsbip" tonight at 6:30p.m. at the Campus House 
at 19525 Pendle Rd. -The Observer 
Seniors who have received Senior Scholarship Fund applications should only return them if they intend to donate their room deposit money. Please check the "YES" 
box. -The Observer 

The last chance to pick up a 1988 Dome will be tonight from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Dome office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The SenioliAiumni Senate picnic will be held at the Senim1Alumni Club from noon to 3 p.m. on Saturday. It will be an opportunity to meet alumni from various cities along with other seniors who will be moving there. Hot dogs and drinks will be provided courtesy of the Alumni Association. -The Observer 
The Senior Class YardSalewill beheldonSunday. 
Items to be sold can be dropped off at Stepan Center from 
11:30 a.m. to noon. If you have any questions call Lisa at 283-4588 or Eileen at 283-3397. -The Observer 
A "May Day" celebration will be held at the Grotto on Sunday at 6:45p.m. in honor of the "Month of Mary!' The event will consist of humns, a rosary, and solemn bendiction of the Blessed Sacrament. -The Obser­ver 
Vice President George Bush will be visiting South Bend on Monday, May 2. Students are needed to turn out at the airport to greet him . .If you are interested, call Matt Gallagher at 283-1964 or Mike Kraft at 283-1891. -The Ob­server 

Dealgn Edit01' ..........•••••..... Joe Zadrozny .....•..........•................•.... steve Megargee Delign Aamtant ..........•.•... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Copy Edit.,. ..... Patrick Zande TIIJ>"aettera ...............•..•... John Mullaney Viewpoint Layout........ Annette Rowland ..........................•................Paul Jackson Etc. Copy Edit.,................ Matt Murphy Newa Editor....................... Tim O'Keefe Etc. Layout ........................... Moira Fox Copy Edit01' ................... Matt Gallagher Typilt .. . .....•.••...........•.•... .•... Will Zamer Sp01'ta Copy EditMI . . . . . .. . . . . Peter Gegen N D Day Edit01' .................. Janet Herold ............•............................ 'Theresa Kelly Photographer .............. Lisa M.L. 0'Anzl 
r 
De 0..... (USPS '99 2.-4000) ia published Moaday throuch Friday except 
l ! ~ 
duriq cum ud vacation periods. n.a.--ia publilhcd by tbc students of tile t 
UniY«<ity of Notre c.-udSaint Mary's Collep. Sublcriptions may be purcbu­
ed for 140 per year <S2' per-ter) by writina n.~.P.O. Box Q, Notre 
o-e, lndianii46S'6. 

n.~11 a __. of n. ~... l'n& All reprodu.:tion riabts are re.wd. 
support to the arts 
Quick, what is WVFI's station number? 
Probably half of you don't know or are not quite sure what the correct answer is (640 AM, by the way). The reason for your ignorance is simple-you don't listen to it. Don't feel bad: you are not alone. 
It is a shame that this is the case at a Uni­
versity like Notre Dame. Most college radio stations are extremely popular on their respec­tive campuses, but at Notre Dame few people listen to WVFI. 
The real problem is neither that WVFI is doing a poor job nor that there is competition for a Domer's radio ear, but rather that the University does not devote a lot of support to the arts. 
The reason most people don't listen to WVFI is that they can't hear it very clearly. Not only is it mono, but it also sounds like there is a sock over the speaker. WVFI is not a licensed AM station. Simply put, the signal is restricted to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. They are not allowed to broadcast anywhere else. 
If WVFI upgraded to a licensed AM signal, the reception would be infinitely better and people in the South Bend area could hear it (a great deal of people in the greater Princeton area listen to the Princeton University station, WPRB). When you increase the amount of lis­teners you increase your advertising and you make money, which helps pay for costs and continued improvements. 
A lot of people in South Bend would listen to a station like WVFI if there were one they could receive. The local merchants are more likely to advertise if there are more people listening to the station. 
The University's attitude towards the com­munication arts is apparent not only in their philosophy towards WVFI. Notre Dame also lacks a solid theatre program. , 
My high school of 750 students performed six professionally-directed productions a year; Notre Dame has only four. Correct me if I'm wrong, but there seems to be a problem here. Notre Dame should do something to correct this. 
Just as college is a traditonal place for new styles of music, it should also be a place for new styles of theatre. Four productions does not leave room for experimental theatre. Why not have four main stage productions and four 'second' stage productions? 
There are two problems the University must correct before the theatre program can be first-rate. First, Notre Dame needs to improve the quantity of course offerings in communications and theatre. Such a move would increase inter­est in theatre and improve the quality of the theatre _l!roductions through better training. 
································································ II Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Heppy Birthday . Today. is Laura s:s birthday. Call her up 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and WISh her a happy one. By the way ' Laura,we do expect to-you dancing 
LaFortune
!! 

on pool tables tonoght. • 

"LAST-DAY-OF -CLASSES" SENIOR FAREWELL 
Thanks for the Good Times 
~~ Fieldhouse Mall ~~~ Friday. April 29th 
'ITO[M]~ 4-6 PM 

ALL RitE WELCOME!
I 


Chri·S 

II

Donne Y 
Managing Editor 
~~~~~~~===========..
r 
M 
B 


Second, our theatre facilities need improve­ment. Washington Hall is inadequate for such a large campus. The Task Force on Alcohol and the Whole Health recommended a new theatre building larger than Washington Hall but smaller than, say, the JACC. Such a building would allow for bigger theatre productions and also would provide a better concert hall. The new hall would help attract bands that could not fill the JACC and do not wish to play in Stepan Center (e.g. REM, Squeeze, 10,000 Maniacs, etc.). 
Let's face it, there are few prospective Notre Dame students who would be satisfied with our communications and theatre program. If we attract more theatre-oriented students the quality of the department productions and in­terest would be increased. This is a needed im­provement. 
One of the main reasons the Notre Dame theatre department is having such problems stems from the merger of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's programs some years ago. The attempt to seperate the programs was never completely successful. It's time to reevaluate the program and make the necessary changes. 
Notre Dame might have a strong commit­ment to the communication arts but it certainly isn't apparent. A renewed commitment to WVFI and the theatre program would be step in the_right direction. The benefits seem to far outweigh the costs. 
Friday, April 29, 1988 
Striking Poles visited by Politburo member 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland--A mem­ber of the ruling Politburo went to a sttikebound steel mill Thursday, but there was no sign of progress toward settling Poland's worst labor unrest in six years. 
Authorities moved to block a second strike called for Friday in another city by reportedly detaining an organizer, but ac­tivists said their plans were still on. 
The high-level visit to ths Lenin steel mill near Krako by Politburo member Alfr Miodowicz came on the third day of a strike by thousands of workers for higher pay. 
Workers expressed outrage that management began talks Thursday with the official trade union at Nowa Huta, bypassing the unofficial strike committee. Several hundred students rallied in support of the steelworkers in Krakow un­til being dispersed by police. 
The strike at the 32,000­worker Nowa Huta plant was the biggest in Poland since the 1981 crackdown on the out­lawed Solidarity independent trade union. 

The Observer I Usa D'Anzl

Art In trash 
Freshman Kelly Golden proudly displays her humanities project, entitled "Notre Dame Life." Golden proves that art is in the eye of the beholder. 
page 3 

Diversity task force report out 
By ANGELA MCDONALD 
News Staff 
Minorities at Saint Mary's College was the topic of a study conducted recently by a Diver­sification Task Force ap­pointed by College President William Hickey. _ 
The task force, studying ways to diversify the College's student body, faculty and staff, presented a list of recommen­dations in a 196-page report to Hickey on April 4. 
Some of the task force's recommendations include: 
•Enrollment 
of 20 minority stu­dents in the 1989 freshman class. 

•Establishment 
of an exchange with a college or university with a significant number of minority students. 

•Creating 
a resource list of minority scholarships avail­able outside Saint Mary's. 

•Development 
of a College or­ientation program for minorities. 

•Creating 
more on-campus ac­tivities for minorities. 


The task force report also recommended the implemen­tation of a college prep workshop for college-bound minorities in the Michiana area minorities will increase the average by 81 percent over the average of the last two years by creating high quality educa­tional programs, sensitivity to the students and comprehen­sive commitment and efforts to change every part of the com­munity in this way," the report stated. 
"The task force will formally present this report to the fac­ulty at the College forum at the beginning of the fall semester; however, our goal for this year was to accomplish this report in time for the Board of Regents meeting," said Nancy Menk, assistant professor of music and task force member. 
Members of the Diversifica­tion Task Force include: Mary Ann Rowan, director of admis­sions and task force chairper­son; Susan Banek, freshman academic counselor; Judith Casey, director of financial aid; Nancy Menk, assistant professor of music. 
Other task force members are: Renee Kingcaid 1ssistant professor of French; ferrence Martin, assistant pr fessor of Religious studies; minority senior Pamela Bet1 ~1; junior Lisa Gonzalez and junior Jill Tomko. 




Some Core classes will be 
•


held 1n dorms next year 
Lunches startin& at. ____ ..$3.4 

The new classes are designedDinnen startin&at. _•.••. $4.7 to improve intellectual life in loar .,.... 7 dayo a w­the dorms and foster better re­
......Tllun.: II :30 a.a.-10 p.a. 
lations between students and
Frt.-Sit.: 11 :30 La.-11 ,_•. 
faculty, according to Assistant
""'· & IWWaya 11:30 La.-11 ,_._


Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272-7376 
South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
$9.99 Pan Pizza Dinner Special 
lncludt·s a large Deep-Dish Sicilian or 14" P..m Brio • pi7.7.a (with up to -~ toppings) and 2 ordersofhread-;tick-;. 
l>ronk.,ncll mdudt·<l 
Nul ,-ali<! with any cllht·r 
l'C JUpt Ill I If di:'\Oillnl 


By AMY HOWARD 
News Staff 
Five experimental sections of the sophomore Arts and Let­ters Core Course will be taught in dorms next fall. 
Professor Barbara Turpin, concurrent assistant profes­sional specialist in the College 
Dinnerfor 2Just $5.99 
lndutks your choice ofa medium Deep­Dish Sicilian pit.7.a or a 12" Hand-lhssed Round or 10" P·.m Brio ' with I topping and I order ofhreadstick-;. 
I>rink.' not int.:ludnl. 


of Arts and Letters. 
"The idea was to provide a more relaxed atmosphere for discussion," Turpin said. 
Five women's dorms and five men's dorms were paired up for the classes, said Turpin. Ten students from each dorm were chosen randomly to take part in the classes that will meet in their dorms. Although the setting will be different, the course material will not change, Turpin said. 
Professor Tom Swartz, the Arts and Letters College Fel­low, came up with the idea about six months ago. "The purpose of doing it was to ex­periment with living and learn­ing," Swartz said, adding that he wanted to demonstrate that learning is not confined to the classroom. 
"The natural grouping for learning is with your friends," Swartz said. "We're trying to create a living room atmo­sphere where intellectual life can sparkle." 
Swartz said he hopes stu­dents in the program will begin going to plays, dances, and other intellectual events out­side of class as a result of the new atmosphere. He plans to provide each hall in the pro­gram with a hall fellow to at­tend these events with the stu­dents. Student Government has set aside money to help stu­dents pay for the events, Swartz said. 
Swartz chose the dorms to participate in the experiment after talking with the halls' rec­tors and redresses to deter­mine where the class could work best, he said. 
Lewis Hall will be paired with St. Edward's, Farley with Zahm, Flanner with Pasquerilla West, Walsh with Sorin, and Morrissey with Lyons. 

The teachers for the new classes were selected by Swartz. 

Congratulations Class of '88 
Especially for: 
Marilyn Laurenzano Patti Tripathi Jerry Roerty Jim Oliver Andrew Somple John Perez 
Scott Connolly Tim Brown Liz Murphy 
Love, 
Maria 

~ 
I 
Friday, April 29, 1988

I page 4 The Observer 
•



Theology and politics m1x 
•


1n El Salvador's 
By LYNSEY R. STRAND Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: This is the last story in a three-part series of a Notre Dame group's recent trip to El Salvador and rela­tionship between religion and politics in the country. The poor of El Salvador are a people crucified, said govern­ment graduate senior Carol Stuart, who spent Holy Week there. 
Fellow group member Dan Strub, a senior, quoted the Human Rights Quarterly on statistics since 1980. In a country the size of Massachu­setts, "over 40,000 civilians have died in political murders and 3,000 more are disappeared victims. Internal refugees, in camps and dislocated through­out the countryside, number over 500,000." 
La Lucha, the Struggle, is carried on by people in the Christian-based communities and non-governmental human rights groups. "Archbishop Romero is the martyr and saint of the people," said Rita Kopczynski, an assistant pro­fessional specialist at the Res­burgh Institute for Peace and International Studies. 
"Romero preached of how brother could kill brother. If you are a Christian, how could you believe in God or call your­self a Christian when these things can be done to people," she said. 


Romero's successor, Arch­bishop Rivera y Damas, wrote a letter suspending the Christian-based communities, said Strub. Michael Garvey, Notre Dame's assistant direc­tor of Public Relations, noted that "these poor folks are enor­mously vulnuerable and pretty much friendless in their own country. Their only slight se­curity is in their community to­gether." 
Catechists from the base communities travel thoughout the country teaching people to read, understand the Bible, and talk about their condition in re­lation to the Bible. "Any at­tempt to organize poor people is regarded as subversive by 
the country's government and military," Garvey added. 
Graduate student Father Brian Miclot distinguished the country's catechists from those in the United States. "These catechists are treatened, tor­tured, and even killed for what they do. Most catechists that we met serve the poor. They begin talking about the deves­tating situation of most of the people, then teach as Christ taught.'' 
The El Salvadoran govern­ment, military, and wealthy call the catechists, coopera­tives, and leftist guerrillas "Communists," said Notre 

turmoil 
Dame group members. 
Sophomore Pete Morgan dis-' agrees with these claims. ''These people are working on more socialist ideals, but the Communist label is used to dehumanize people. The socialist ideals have brought people together in cooperatives to meet the needs of the com­munity. 
"The FMLN guerrilla move­ment is influenced by Marxist ideas," he said, "which can be found in the Acts of the Apostles. The FMLN are not now supported by the Soviet Union or Cuba." 
The leftist guerrillas were not represented in last month's congressional elections be­cause "members would be a walking target for the right," Stuart noted. "The left believe it is a stronger statement not to vote." 
Kopczynski outlined that only 16 per cent of the total pop­ulation of 4.5 million voted last month. 
"The government will send buses to the communities, but they always come back empty," said senior Kathy Brommeland. 
On Easter Sunday, Miclot celebrated mass for the village of Santa Cruz. "It really made me see the meaning behind the Gospel, the reason why Christ suffered and rose again," said Strub, adding "Even amongst all the oppression, it felt like a real heaven." 


HAMMES 

Support The Dream With 3M 



Reg. $3.60 Reg. $2.79 Reg. $2.39 Scotch Strapping Tape Scotch Clear Box Sealing Tape with Reusable Tape Depenser $2.39 
Scotch Package Mailing Tape tan or magic




$2.59 
$1.99 
Friday, April 29, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
ND. Purdue form 
research 
Special to the Observer 
Researchers at the Univer­

' sity of Notre Dame and Purdue University have formed a re­search center to help Indiana industry develop and use new technologies in superconduc­tivity. The Indiana Center for Inno­vative Superconductor Tech­nology this month received $587,459 for its first year from the state-supported Corpora­tion for Science and Technolo­gy. The center may receive up to an additional $1 million from CST over the next five years. The center is based at Purdue with research sites on the campuses of both univer­sities. Paul McGinn, assistant professor of materials science and engineering, will serve as coordinator for the center at Notre Dame. The recent discovery of high temperature superconductors has excited the scientific com­munity more than any event since the discovery of the tran­sistor. This year's Nobel Prize is shared by two Swiss physicists, Karl Alex Mueller 

center 

and Johannes Georg Bednorz, whose work revolutionized su­perconductor research. The de­velopment of commercial ap­plications for superconducting materials is one branch of su­perconductor research gener­ating a good deal of interest. 
According to McGinn, one major objective for the first year of this joint venture is to establish a consortium of mem­bers of Indiana industry to con­tribute to the Center's opera­tion. The Center will serve as an information base and as a research and training facility for the consortium. In addition, Center researchers will serve as consultants for consortium members as well as be avail­able to participate in collabora­tive research projects. 
Other Notre Dame members of the center include, C. Ben­jamin Alcock, Freimann pro­fessor of materials science and engineering; Alan Pelton, as­sistant professor of materials science and engineering; Al­bert Miller, chariman and pro­fessor of materials science and engineering, and Walter Tomasch, professor of physics. 

It's a bird, it's a plane ... 
Captain Crime Stopper and sophomore Ann-Marie Walker, president of the Notre Dame Crimestoppers, 
The Observer I Usa D'Anzl 

take their message to students in North Dining Hall In a quest to rid the campus of the forces of evil. 
Candidates will visit Michiana area soon 
By LIZ PANZICA and MATT GALLAGHER Senior Staff Reporters 
The Indiana primary is May 3 and candidates will descend upon the area in force. Presidential hopefuls George Bush and Jesse Jackson both will be visiting the Michiana area in the next few days. 
Vice President George Bush will hold a rally at Michiana Regional Airport Monday mor­ning. Bush will arrive around 8 a.m. on Air Force Two, the official vice presidental jet, said Sean Walsh from the White House. 
From Notre Dame, about 40­50 College Republicans plan to meet the Vice President's plane. "We are really excited about Bush's vist to the area. We've gotten some great sup­port from our members. Even though it's during finals week, we plan to do some sign paint­ing and such,'' said Mike Kraft, co-chairman of the group. 
At this time Bush's itinerary has not been finalized, said Walsh. 
Rev. Jesse Jackson, a con­tender for the Democratic nomination for President, will also be campaigning in the area this weekend. 
In another campaign-related event, Democratic National Committee Chairman Paul Kirk will speak at the Law School Sunday at 2:15p.m. The national media is expected to attend because Kirk has a major announcement to make, said Mike Schadek, chairman of Notre Dame College Democrats. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 


MATEO-rs SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 

Mateo's thanks all N.D. and SMC students for your support during our first year. 

During finals week please enjoy a FREE 13 ounce soft drink with any 14" sub. 
limit 4 per order offer expires May 6 


Please join us again next year! 
Frtday, Aprtl29, 1988 
page 6 The Observer 

................................................. 
•
:
: 
i 

:• 
:
i 
•
i• 
• 



• 



orne 

from 

232-2499 
OPEN FOR LUNCH r----------------------,-----------------------1 


2 MEDIUM CHEESE PAN PIZZAS $10.99 
$1.29 per extra topping covers both pizzas. Supreme $13.99. Super Supreme $14.99. Available on both Pan and Thin 'N Crispy® pizza. 
Valid on Delivery only. 

For Delivery Call: 232-2499. 
Offer expires: May 29, 1988. 

Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per delivery at participating Pizza Hut® Delivery units. Not valid in combination with any other 
Pizza Hut® offer. Thin 'N Crispy is a registered trademark of Pizza Hut, Inc. Our drivers carry no more than $20 cash. 1120¢ cash redemption value. 


limited Delivery area in South Bend and 
ELI V f. R Mishawaka. <1: 1988 PiZ<a Hut, Inc. 
LARGE SUPREME PAN PIZZA $9.99 
Available on both Pan and Thin 'N Crispy® pizza. 
Valid on Delivery only. 
For Delivery Call: 232-2499. 
Offer expires: May 29, 1988. 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per party per delivery at participating Pizza Hut® Delivery units. Not valid in combination with any other Pizza Hut® Delivery offer. 
Thin 'N Crispy is a registered trademark of Pizza Hut, Inc. Our drivers carry no more than $20 cash. 1120¢ cash redemption value. 


limited Delivery area in South Bend and 
Mishawaka. <tll988 Pizza Hut, Inc. 
L----------------------~-------~---------------~ 
~............................................... 
Friday, April 29, 1988 
The Observer page7 

Pot for sale 
Kathleen Lehman ponders just which pot mom and dad would love as Tracy Dippo demonstrates the 

Lead levels

High Street Storage 
Observer Staff Report 1212 High Street South Bend 
Notre Dame's water supply

5' x 5' --$15 I month 
will still qualify as safe under 

5' x 1 0' --$20 I month 
any likely new Environmental 

1 0' x 1 0' --$32 I month 
Protection Agency guidelines on lead levels, said Robert Zerr, director of risk manage­

1 0' x 20' --$45 I month 
other sizes available 
ment and safety. Current EPA guidelines

288-3575 
state that lead is a health con-


West ,Bank closed by general strike 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM--Bakers and street vendors joined a protest strike Thursday that virtually closed down the occupied ter­ritories and Arab East Jerusalem. Israeli army gun­fire wounded two Palestinians. 
The strike coincided with declarations by Israeli aut­horities that the 5-month-old rebellion in the West Bank and Gaza Strip had begun to ebb. 
Underground Palestinian leaders called the strike in a bulletin issued last week, and it appeared to be as widespread as dozens of others since the 1.5 million Palestinians in the oc­cupied lands began what even the Israelis now call the "in­tefadah" --the uprising. 
Arab reporters said baker& and street vendors, who usually operate during strikes, joined this one in most areas. 
In Hebron on the West Bank, about 100 young Palestinians set tires ablaze in front of the municipal building and shouted for the resignation of Mayor Abdel Majid Zir, Arab wit­nesses said. Zir was appointed by Israel. 
A 20-year-old protestor, Raed Shuhkee, was wounded by gun­fire when Israeli troops dis­persed the crowd with tear gas, rubber bullets and live am­munition, the witnesses said. 

Dozens of Arabs blocked the road to Ebween, a village near Ramallah with rocks and bur­ning tires, then threw stones at Israeli soldiers who arrived in three jeeps, a villager re­
ported. 
•

1n ND water are safe 
cern at certain levels of expo­sure. The current EPA guideline is 50 parts per billion (ppb) but that guide is likely to be lowered "significantly," ac­cording to a press release from the Department of Risk Man­agement and Safety. 
Notre Dame's water supply tests at about 5 ppb of lead, well below any new standard that 


Thanks, Notre Dame, ForTalkingWith Us! 
,--,.-.----....___________ 

~ ~" \ ~ f(•Prompt, friendly, personal service \ \ AC\('fffi{j'fj\, ~ 1•No monthly f:e, no start-up charges, ~ \
~'\.)./ Y and volume diScounts ~\ 
Y \ .--• Special services to meet your ~~ ~__...,-' special needs ~~ 
• For more information, call219-271-4400 (South Bend area), 219-283-4150 (on campus), or toll-free 800-222-5275 



G.-·-·
.. -.. 
~-­
CTI Telecommunications, Inc. 
111 Sunnybrook Court· South Bend, Indiana 46637-3499 

--------------------------------WECONNECT.-------------------------------­

might be established, said Zerr. other local water sup­plies have as high as 30 ppb of lead, he added. 
"We take samples and send them to an independent labora­tory," said Zerr. "There's also some EPA sampling done, so there's two tests totally inde­pendent of the University," he added. 
One source of lead content in water on campus is several Halsey Taylor water fountains, which have been reported as containing lead-soldered joints. These fountains have not been replaced "as far as I'm aware of," said Zerr. 
Zerr said, however, that water samples have shown that water supplied by the Univer­sity is quite safe. 
The University provides water for the Holy Cross com­munity, the WNDU offices, and the Notre Dame Credit Union as well as to the campus, ac­cording to the press release. 

Too much lead in the human body can cause serious damage to the brain, kidneys, nervous system and red blood cells. The greatest risk, even with short exposure, is to young children and pregnant women. 

lf\nlre~il~ todrinkwxl dri-.c at lca<;t let !1-c rest of Ll~ kntMc 
Reader's Digest 
HOW MANY COPIES 
WOULD YOU LIKE? 
Whether you need I or 100.000 copies. you get them fast at 
Kinko's. 
THE 

RIVERSIDE 
EXECUTIVE 

NOWACCEPTING 
RESERVATIONS 
ONE OF SOUTH BEND'S FINEST EXECUTIVE SUITES 
Weekly or Monthly Rentals Available 


pageS The Observer Friday, April 29, 1988 
A Word of Thanks to ... 
Rite of Christian Initiation: 
R.C.I.A. Team: Diane Zipprich 
Randy Rentner Pat CostelloChris Mengucri Mike Flangan, C.S.C.

Angelo Stagnaro Jill Schirmer Barbara Grady 

Sponsors: Julie ?oletta
Ed Fitzgerald Pat CostelloArthur Caravajal 

Tom CummingsRobert France Ann Marie WolfPaul Burke 
Mark Taylor Anne Tabor Joe Roche Kristin Shepeck Bill Gray 
Confirmation: Confirmlli.ion Team: 

Alex "KratzTerry Brady 
Sponsors: 
Katherine Tillman 

Ray Cihak Christina Rhinehart Mike MurphySteve Lawrence Maggie Sieger 
Jane Titterton Bridget Mickus Patty PieronekDavid Gould Linda PlonskiAlex Kratz Bob Dahlke Pet~ VerdiKristin Komyatte Jim Palmer, C.S.C.
Merrit Hamilton Scott Wellmann Pat Costello Frank Salerno Dana Schaltz Terry Brady 
Guest Speakers for R.C.I.A. and Confirmation: 
Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 

Rev. Michael Himes Fr. Robert Kennedy Sr. Pat Gantz, C.S.C. 
Patricia Wissmer Br. John Kuehn, C.S.C. 
Residence Hall Liturgical Coordinators: 
Jim Fleisher Norm Campbell Mike Murray Laura Richelsen Roberta BryerPeter Morgan 
Mark Gredler John Peric Susan Schoppa Steve Megargee Mark Korzenecki Mike Napierkowski 
Mark Monile Anthony Hansen Michelle Heintz 
Chip Shaia Kathleen Quinn Gerald Duff Doug Anderson Jim Bran Phil Wuesthoff Cheryl Cowden Marcy Hambridge Tim Daley Amy Humphrey Ke~ Scheve Kate Lyons 
Bob Carson Eileen Doherty Erich Schiffgen, Debbie Winarski Keven McCormack Vicky Rappold Michele Ryan Cecilia Bryer Jim Peredo 
Liturgical Ministers: Readers Coordinator: 

Mr. and Mrs. Kelly Sr. Elenor Bernstein, C.S.S. Jack WalshGene Vavrick, C.S.S. 
Communion Minister Coordinators: 
Gene Vavrick, C.S.S. Pat Lyons Sr. Madeleine Sophie Mr. and Mrs. Peter Thernton Peter Lombardo 
Server Coordinators : 

Harry Bride Bill Wack Dana Lizarraga 
Usher Coordinators: 
Jack Duman Don and June Siegmund Noreen Moran 

The Notre Dame Folk Choir: 
Christina Fallon Jill Johnson Mary Miller Lauren Pillar Kelly McGonaghy Eric Waffner Christine Su Eileen Lauer Elizabeth Crummy Paula Gile Bridget O'Brien Jill Locey Marjorie McCall Joanie Francoeur Elizabeth Sherowski Michael Ball Ed. Fitzgerald Michael Kremer Rob Lofaro Christy Sieger Tony Gangloff Michael Schrimpf David Early Kevin Hubbard David Stosur Tony V anHoof Paul Masaro 
The Notre Dame Liturgical Choir: 
John Anthony Kathleen Maglicic Rip Ewell Trey Brown Pat Sain Tom Finn Ann Biddlecom Mike Knotts Steve Wilbricht 
Denise Boychuk David Roth Pat Gorman Ginny Cummings Julie Beyer Karen Julka Tina Chou Kassie Misiewicz Janine Robinson 
Katie Clark Kathy Berman Joe McGarry Lynn Ewing Dan Cahill Colleen McShane Jeff Drozda Lisa Vidergar Sharon O'Keefe 
Yvonne Duncan Gretchen Braun Scott Ruffo Lonnie Hill Leah Domitrovic Dan Sheldon Carolyn Gardner Scott Wellman Jane Anne Riedford 
Amber George Jeff Cooper Rebecca Besser Bridget McGrath Eric Olsen . Steve Werner Anne-Marie Wilmouth Carol Plum 
Notre Dame Women's Choir: 
Denise Boychuck Cecilia Winczewski Kelly McGonaghy Nhung Pham Gretchen Weiss Gina Aya-ay Janet Sterbanck 
Notre Dame Handbell Choir: 

Paul Waguespack Ann Marie Wolf Cecilia Burger Claire Harbeck 
Mike Deer Celestina Rivera Ann Howard Christina Curtin 
Notre Dame Encounter Teams: 
Dari lssing, C.S.C.  Diane Fitzgibbon  George Cannon  Bill Lies  Patrick Lmbeck  Chris Mengucci  Karen Logsdon  Rosanna Silva  Pete Morgan  
Nick Schrantz  Cate O'Hare  David Gallivan  Lucy Ciletti  Jim Aman  Helen Gilboy  Richard Rehg  Nancy Wehner,  Bob ')'Leary  
Tom Mustillo  Betsy Pawlicki  Eileen Doherty  Mike James  Julie Collinge  Joris Binder, O.P  Rita Robinett  Jim Wimbiscus  Julie Oxler  
Dianne Vasko  Andy Shannon  Frank Parigi  Peter Smith  Dan Lizarraga  Heidi Davis  Kristin Shepeck  Tim Malone  Jim Palmer, C.S.C.  
Johanna Branick  Linda Wall, O.S.F.  Anne Curoe  Judy Hutchinson  Dan Strutzel  
HosMtetreat Couples for Marriage Preparation:  
JBime and Esmee Ballalta  Tex and Brigid Dutile  Tom and Gloria Marullo  Pat and Mary Clare McCabe  
Mike and Chris Etzel  Steve and Nancy Fallon  Ken and Joan Milani  Mike and Nancy Morris  
Tom Fling and JoAnn Della Neva  Rick and Diane Klee  Clark and Ann Power  John Robinson and Deb Deery  
Doug and Carol Kmiec  David and Angel Konkey  Jim and Ann Seckinger  David and Rosemary Spalding  
Dave and Chris Krueper  Ken and Ann Lauer  Jim and Pat Taylor  Mark and Nan Tulchinsky  
Mark and Adrianne Lenyo  Jerry and Marge Marley  T.J. Sutherland and Patricia Wismer  Mike and Suzanne Woodward  
Volunteers at University Village:  
Advisory Council Members:  
Bill and Therese DeMars  Chris and Jeanne :Stewart Tom and Amy P etee  Jo n and DeAnn Bailey  

Tom and Colleen Smith 
Rick and Sally Giolvannetti Ross and Kathi Niebergall AI and Marci Hibbard Paulo and Marta Araya George and Carol GuentherP alai and As Santoso 

Guillermo and Alicia Garcia Bob and Cindy Mangiaforte Lewis and Melanie Conwell 
Alan and Cathy Lindsay Bob and Jane Burns Peter and Erica Fling Kelly and Nancy Talcott Michael and Pam Munro Michael and Suzanne Woodward Frank and Rita Ward Greg and Kathy Sturrus Yutao Shen and Xiaozhong Zhu Mark and Donna Smillie Joe and Cindy Antos

Manuel Bastias and Rosa Saavedra Supervisors for the After School Program: Sherry Ghatee Marcia Hibbard Carol Guenther Erica Flint 
Julie Mundell Min Gong 
Maria Amorim Colleen Smith Village Exchange Workers: Marcia Hibbard Roswitha Brauer 
Liturgical Musicians: 

Bill DeMars Cindy Antos Volunteer Undergraduate Babysitters for the Village: Kathy Ferreira Terri Dempsey Amy Keusal Carolyn Diorio Grace Giorgio Jenny Uber Barbara Seidl Amy Eden Mary StrittmatterKa~y Brommeland Sue Marhefka Dana Togni carrie Magnusen Mary Baron Elvia Pellouchoud Lindsay Dodd Mary Policastro Me!issa SummermeyerDamelle Duchateluer 
English Tutors on Saturday Morning: Bridget Gillespie Becky Clusserath 
Todd Tilton Bob White Kevm Hoar Scott Neilson 
John Mikulak Mike Slattery Keith Tadrowski 

Special Thanks: As Santoso AmyPetee 

Groups: 

~Eucharistic Ministers, Readers, and Servers at Sacred Heart Church, residence halls, Law School, and other N.D. communities *Liturgical Music Coordinator and musicians. 

~ND to ~11. of you who have volunteered your help m our mm1stry. ~~ e~A\is.c; ,1 , 
. ... l \ ~ Drrector ~ ~
rp


~~~~:~\~ .i.~:t
·~ t}ll ,.-'£' /)~ -~~ 0 _c; -J. ~ ja':/""''~« 
CJFFICt (JF

n wa::;; ~~ ~-~'l!m 
(Z\MPUS f\11!NI5TRY



!.ff!t,~Q~~ do.~~ ~.g ~~ 

Friday, April 29, 1988 

The Observer page 9 
Billion dollar AIDS bill passed by Senate 

Associated Press makers debated whether to avoidance of intravenous drug renew a 1987 ban on federally use. The provision also says no 
WASHINGTON--The Senate funded materials said to di­on Thursday passed a billion­rectly promote or encourage dollar AIDS information and homosexuality. research bill that calls for man­The ban, which expires Sept. datory AIDS testing of people 30, was passed last year 94-2. convicted of sex and drug But sentiment shifted this year crimes. after several senators said it 
"Finally, we have declared was having a chilling effect on war on the virus and not on the public health efforts in the 
-victims in our battle against homosexual community, which AIDS," Sen. Edward Kennedy, has the highest percentage of D-Mass., said after the 87-4 AIDS victims. vote. The Senate agreed to the ban 
The vote came after hours of sponsored by Sen. Jesse Helms, bitter argument over the con­R-N.C., but also agreed to an­tent of educational materials other provision that says edu­paid for with federal dollars. cation materials should stress 
Tempers were lost, curses the public health benefits of hurled and senators denied the abstinence, a single opportunity to speak as law-monogamous relationship and 
COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
For copies before work or after hours, depend on Kinko's, the copy center. 
ATLANTA Gregory A. Harris James M. Karle 
BALTIMORE Stacy S. McCarren 
BUFFALO .Patrick M. Trask 
CHARLOTTE Todd J. Siczek 
CHICAGO Daniel P. Carrigan Michael A. Higgins Noeline M. Morrissey John C. Puetz Michael A. Ruff John R. Souter 
CLEVELAND Michael J. Albertone 
COLUMBUS Shawn T. O'Brien 
other part of the bill should restrict the dissemination of accurate information to anyone at risk, apparently su­perseding the Helms ban. 
In addition to voting unani­mously to approve mandatory AIDS testing of people con­victed of sex and drug crimes, the Senate also accepted neutralized versions of several conservative amendments that supporters said would have hampered the bill. 
Sens. Kennedy and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, sponsors of the fiscal1988 research and educa­tion bill, called it the nation's first comprehensive statement of an AIDS policy. The two are chairman and ranking minority member, respective­ly, of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee. 

The bill authorizes $665 mil­lion for state and federal AIDS education programs, increased hiring at the National Institutes of Health, a new home health care program for AIDS victims and special efforts to help high­risk minorities and in­travenous drug abusers. A committee aide said open-ended research money would bring to total to about $1.1 billion in annual spending. 
The bill's passage also was lauded by Victor Basile, exec­utive director of the Human Rights Campaign Fund, the na­tional political action commit­tee for the gay and lesbian com­munity. 
In the House, a bill covering research on AIDS is pending in the House Energy and Com­merce Committee's health sub­committee. Bills covering the other areas included in the Sen­ate bill have not be introduced. 
The 97-0 vote on a testing amendment by Sen. Don Nickles, R-Okla., marked the first time Congress has ven­tured into uncharted areas of AIDS testing and confiden­tiality. 
The Reagan administration announced last year it would test new immigrants and the Senate later put its stamp of approval on the policy. 

Release of documents would threaten life of defendant in Iran-Contra case 
Associated Press the prosecutor said public dis­
closure of the material could 
WASHINGTON--The Iran­jeopardize lives, including that Contra defendants Thursday of one of the defendants. refused to accept a compro­The defense wouldn't accept mise in their battle to gain voluntary procedures to access to masses of classified resolve pretrial government documents, while deciding instead to every inch of legal ground --es­pecially over access to classi­fied material. 

An exasperated U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell tried to mediate a host of differences over the documents, defense access to witnesses and even 


DETROIT MarkS. Jevahirian Amy L. Treder Daniel J. Walsh 
HOUSTON Anthony J. Smith 
INDIANAPOLIS Scott A. Anderson Thomas B. Gabbert 
LOS ANGELES Mary E. Grimes Paul J. Irving 
MINNEAPOLIS Patrick J. Foley 
MORRISTOWN 
Ralph T. Ferrara 
NEW YORK Anne M. Costello Paul J. Meissner Richard C. Reynolds Gregory J. Smith Brian A. Staub 

~--------------Price 
PHILADELPHIA Michael J. Maransky 
PITTSBURGH Richard K. Heller 

RICHMOND Robert F. Newman 
SAN DIEGO 

Cynthia M. Lamfalusi 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Lori F. Croteau Robert J. Fitzgerald, Jr. Tonya M. Grootendorst 
SAN JUAN Astrid Navarro 

ST. LOUIS Elizabeth A. Conway 
TAMPA Carl J. Kozlevcar 

Waterhouse 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
---------~~--­
page 10 The Observer Friday, April 29, 1988 

Openings beginning Summer '88 Call Today! 



1-800-621-3670 ext. 3 

The Peace Corps is an exhilarating two year experience that will last a lifetime. 
Working at a professional level that ordinarily might take years of apprenticeship back home, volunteers find the career growth they1re looking for and enjoy a unique experience in the developing world. 
International firms and government agencies value the skills and knowledge mastered during Peace Corps service. 
Paid Volunteer Positions are currently available in the following areas: 
• Agriculture (crop extension,  • Education  
plant protection, farm  • Engineering (civil & water  
mechanics, beekeeping,  resources )  
AG education )  • Industrial Arts  
• Forestry  • Business Management  
• Fisheries  • Home Economics  
• Nursing  • Public Health Extension  

ANY COLLEGE DEGREE OR RELEVANT EXPERIENCE COULD QUALIFY YOU FOR THESE POSITIONS. 
PEACE CORPS 
THE TOUGHEST JOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE 

have laundry taken 
.------------­
Friday, April 29, 1988 
Baker defends Meese in the White House 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker warned top-level aides to President Reagan on Thursday they could lose their jobs if they were discovered planting news stories calcu­lated to increase pressure for Attorney General Edwin Meese's resignation, an admin­istration source said. 
This source said that at the morning staff meeting, Baker brought up recent published reports saying close associates and friends of Reagan's were working together to try to get the embattled Meese out of the administration. 
FORD -TOYOTA -VOLVO 

~~~ ~~.J.
·~ JEFFERSON & CEDAR-MISHAWAKA ,~ 



r----------------,
1 PAC & SHIP · 1 
I 115 Dixieway North I I 277-7748 1 
ISTUDENTS I 
1 We will be ON CAMPUS to supply, pack, 1 1 seal, and send boxes for you! 1 
I Sonr & I 
~ v~ I
I Stepan Center 0ftf, '1'1).I 12 -6 p.m. Or .Sfv, &r &t I
0

I Mon. -Sat. t1&1}18 i""~& I



L----------------J 
Overdrawn 
By MIKE O'CONNELL 
News Staff 
Last week, St. Michael's Laundry Service announced that it would confiscate the laundry of graduating seniors with accounts exceding the fifty dollar allowance. 
Supervisor of Assembly and Distribution Carol Denney sent out letters to hall special delivery representatives on April 15 that said, "Please ad­vise your senior participants if they are over the fifty dollar allotment as of April 14, (their laundry) can no longer be charged. They must pick-up bundles at the laundry and pay cash." 
Director of Laundry and Drycleaning Lupe Garcia said, "This is the first year we've held the laundry. Last year we let it slide, then we were notified that we couldn't collect from the graduating seniors and lost the money " said Gar­cia. 
Student Accounts informed St. Michael's on Monday that it was closing accounts on April 13, which only gave Denney two days to inform the hall repre­sentatives of the situation. 
"We hoped that somehow we could charge them later " said 
Baker, this source said, told the two dozen senior White House aides that he "had had it with these stories" and said people who disagree with that "should come to Howard Baker and talk about it" rather than going to news reporters. 
Baker made it clear that in such a scenario, the discussion would have to focus on whether the staff member would con­tinue to work for Reagan, the source said. 
The administration source who was knowledgeable about what transpired in the meeting agreed to discuss it on grounds that he not be identified public­ly. 
----~--~-~------­
~-----~------------~-·---~----~­

Former Israeli Ambassador Abba Eban speaks on fared his solutions to the current crisis In Israel. Story "Religion in Israel" at a lecture yesterday. Eban of-below. 

Negotiation key to Middle 
East peace, says Eban 
said, "we should have to give 
up our other attributes of our 
Zionist vision Jewish 
majority . . . democracy 
and the hope for peace." 
Eban also exempted the Palestinians in many in­stances. The problems in the Middle East "don't arise be­cause we are Israelis and they are Palestinians, because we are Jews (and) they are Mus­lims, it is a general algebraic problem that applies to any po­sition," he said. 
"It is not the throwing of the stones and the bottles," added the ambassador, "the inner story is an absence of struc­tural harmany in the relations between these two peoples." 
Eban described the Middle East problem as forseeable. "It is ... unrealistic to subject 600,000 Jews to the rule of an Arab majority," he said. 
seniors will 
Denney. "When Student Ac­counts informed us on April 11 that they were closing in two days, I tried to call the reps; I left messages, and I contacted the rest through the release forms of the laundry which was delivered." said Denney. 
Many seniors were upset when they learned that they had to walk to St. Michael's to pick up their laundry instead of having it billed and delivered. Senior Rob Bennett said, "I think the laundry ser­vice has been unfair to the stu­dents in general. It's alright when students are under­drawn, but once you go over the limit they hold your laundry." 
Garcia said, "St. Michael's Laundry is a service to the stu­dents similar to the dining hall service. You don't get money back for the times you don't eat at the dining hall." 
"There was no possible way to bill the money to Student Ac­counts once they closed." said Garcia. "We try to let the stu­dents know exactly where they stand every week on the indi­vidual account slips which are delivered along with the laundry." said Garcia. 
Garcia said, "All unclaimed clothing is sent to the mis­sions." 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Staff Reporter 
Former Israeli Ambassador to the United States and the United Nations Abba Eban called for negotiations as the only means of a possible solu­tion for the current problems in the Middle East. 
"For peace we need their consent; we cannot live without it ... It is important that this negotiating initiative should not fail," said Eban at a lecture he gave Thursday entitled "Religion In Israel." 
"It is one thing to say that there must be renegotiation," said Eban, "(but) it is another thing to cancel the idea of sharing, and to call for 100 percent-ism. The doctrine of 100 percent has failed." 
Eban added, "It (the current crisis) cannot be solved by only one party . . . it can only be solved by convergence, by the simultaneous abandonment of some positions (by both par­ties)." 

Eban noted that all oflsrael 's successes in the past have been made in negotiations of an in­ternational nature. "An inter­national conference, said Eban, "with all its clumsiness, cannot do any harm." 
"If you refuse a negotiation, you can lose your life," added Eban, "(but) if you go to a con­ference, you can lose nothing but your brief case." 
In addition to international negotiation, Eban said, "We (Israel) have to devote our­selves . . . to the problem of 
negotiating and rearranging 
and determining the structure 
of our country 
(determining) who it is ... 
what is Israel's character -­
that is the answer." 
Eban also said that Israel 
would have to resolve what he 
called a "crisis of values ... If 
we insist on maintaining the 
present territorial conflict,'' he Special to the Observer 
page 12  
ROTC  •holds spr1ng  
awards  ceremony  

The following awards were among those announced at the spring awards ceremony of the Department of Military Sci­ence: 
• 
The American Veterans of World War II Award to Cadet Chris Govekar. 

• 
The Leadership Medal to Cadet Paul Nobbe. 

• 
The Sons of American Revo­lution Award to Cadet Gregory Olson. 

• 
The Veterans of Foreign Wars Award to Cadet Brian Stokes. 

• 
The American Defense 



Awards 
continued from page 1 
named the winner of the Spes Unica award. Jeanne Rodes, lecturer of English, was pre­sented with the Maria Pieta award, an award nominated by students. Also announced were seven faculty promotions to full professorships. 
Twenty-seven department awards to students were given Preparedness Association Medal to Cadet Dan Soller. 

• 
The American Legion Awards, one for military excel­lence to Cadet Michael Baid, and one for military scholar­ship to Cadet Todd Hardiman. 

• 
The Reverend John J. Cavanaugh Award to Cadet Matthew Ryan. 

• 
The Deputy Commander's Award to Cadet Jeff Vuono. 

• 
The Battalion Command­er's Saber to Cadet Ronald Giometti. 


The ceremony took place on Thursday afternoon in the Res­burgh Library auditorium. 
out at the convocation. other department awards were also given out in smaller depart­ment meetings before the con­vocation. 
After the department meetings, students and faculty joined an academic procession to O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Hickey said the Honors Con­vocation was a chance to reflect on what Saint Mary's has tried to do for the senior class during its four years at Saint Mary's. 
Friday, April 29, 1988 
The Observer 


Army Cadet Michael Schellinger proudly receives the "George C. Marshall torneys more time to submit Award" in the Army ROTC Spring Awards ceremony. Story at left. written arguments. 
For 1he faciS call your local Red Cross. or wrt1e, AIDS 
+
American Red Cross ~ Wlshington. DC 20006 

The Observei1Lisa D'Anzi 
Kentucky can't sue people who loot graves 
Associated Press 

MORGANFIELD, Ky.--The state of Kentucky has no right to file a civil suit against 10 men charged with desecrating In­dian graves, attorneys for the men said. 
Three of the defendants are from Indiana. 
Attorney General Fred Cowan filed the suit March 8 to recover artifacts and mone­tary damages arising from a relic-hunting operation in Union County. 
Defense attorneys in the civil suit claim the state has no right to file the action because it does not own or control the Slack Farm, where the collectors were digging. 
Union Circuit Judge Will Tom Wathen on Wednesday gave at­

Tasks 
continued from page 1 
president. But he added that most students, writing addi­tional responses on the back of the survey, included a qualification that the minority students must be as qualified as any other student accepted to the University. 
The responses to the report on alcohol were also very trend-oriented, according to Paese. 
Having a "dry" section in dorms was rejected by 75 per­cent of women and 74 percent of men surveyed. 
Concerning alcohol being provided at SYRs and semi­formals, Paese said "students felt not only that alcohol should be provided but that the dorm should provide it." 
Sixty-nine percent of women and 72 percent of men responded that the hall should provide alcohol at these events. 
A "clearly overwhelming" number of students were against prohibiting the public use of alcohol at tailgaters and prohibiting evening football games, said Paese. "Students voiced loudly their opinions on the alcohol recommen­dations," he said. 
"The trends are clear and the student body has said what they thought," said Doyle. "We will continue to push for what the student body thinks and said they wanted." 
"These are issues that really touch students in an every-day way, more than others," he said. 
The questionnaires were sent 
to all on-campus students in 
April. Out of about 6,000 sur­
veys sent, 1,200 responses were 
received, according to Melissa 
Smith, executive coordinator 
for special projects and coord­
inator of the survey. 
"We felt this was a very good 
response, especially at such a 
busy time of the year," said 
Doyle. 
Smith said anything over 
1,000 responses gives a repre­
sentative sa~ple of student 
opinion. "(The survey) was 
definitely statistically valid," she said. She added that she, Doyle and Paese met with Patrick Murphy, associate pro­fessor of marketing at Notre Dame, to make sure the survey was statistically sound. Murphy reviewed the ques­tions, said Smith, and "we went by what he said." 

The numbers do not include 


Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 
~CLUB 
* DJ's! * 
Applications for DJ's at 
Alumni Senior Club can be picked up at the Student Activities office 
3rd Floor of LaFortune Just make sure to turn them back in BEFORE YOU LEAVE!! 


Flanner Hall's surveys, which were stolen from the dorm, she said. 
"We didn't feel there was any problem as far as including seniors' responses to the sur­vey," said Smith. "The senior response was certainly less (than the other classes), but that's to be expected." 

PLEASE 
Will the person who broke into my locker at the Rockne Pool Wednesday night 
PLEASE 
RETURN MY WEDDING BAND ,, 
) 

Keep the cash, keep the watch 
BUT 
This is my 25th Wedding 
Anniversary 
RETURN MY WEDDING BAND 
TO Denis F. Ellis Executive Chef University Food Services South Dining Hall 
......------------------------------------­
Viewpoint
Friday, April 29, 1988 
pag: 13 
•

Do not 1gnore God during finals 
I am sure that if a survey were taken, asking students here to name the worst time of the year, the answer would overwhelmingly be the time that we are going through now. In these last days before finals, it seems as if everything that was listed on the syllabi in the beginning of the semester is due on the · same day, so it is quite easy to get caught up in a frenzy of academic ac­tivity. Certainly this has its good points, but it often has some negative ones. It seems that we get so caught up into finals that we exclude everything else that should have priority in our lives. I wish to mention one aspect of our life here that is often in danger of neglect during this perilous period. 
John J.A. Raphael 
guest column 
The danger that I speak of is the ten­dency to neglect our spiritual life during this very crucial time. So often one hears students saying that they are not going to Mass because they have to study, or they have a huge paper due that will require an all-nighter. These complaints are usually true, but as Christians we all know that the Mass is essential to our relationship with God and that nothing on earth should keep us from being present at the sacrifice of Our Lord on the altar. When we are tempted to put aside our religious obligations for other pursuits we should be drawn to the words of Christ in the 
P.O. Box Q 
UMOC benefits Leukemia fund 

Dear Editor: 
To the student bodies of Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's this is a letter of ap­
preciation. To all those who were in­
volved in last week's UMOC contest-­
from the organizers to the participants 
and donators--thank you! 
Because of your support, an unprece­
dented $1,750 was raised! The money, 
as you may know, is being presented 
to the Jansen family and in btrn will go 
the Leukemia Society of America. Your 
generous contributions, efforts, and 
support are truly appreciated by all. 
Tricia Jansen Chuck Neidhoefer Organizers of the Notre Dame­Jane M. Beres Leukemia Fund 
Olympic skater thanks ND 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing to the Notre Dame com­munity express my sincere thanks for your gracious and generous contribu­tion to the Leukemia Society of America. 
Doonesbury 
WHAT I'M 7RYIN6 70 R6I.JRe ARE Y()(J OtiT/A/I-ff 'IOU UXJI< 50 5TAR1N6 IJIFFER£NT. ITS YOLR 
j AT. MIKE? G/.A'fl3r£J! YOiJ IJSflJ70 
: •  \  UM6/.A$­fSI  
"  

gospel of St. Matthew: "Therefore do not be anxious, saying, 'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall we drink?' or, 'What are we to put on?' (for after all these the Gentiles seek); for your Fa­ther knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and His justice, and all these things shall be given you besides" (Mt 6:31­34). Thus we see that God knows how much we need to get an 'A' on that test, and He also knows how long we will have to stay up to cram a semester's worth of reading into one night, but we also see that what is essential to us as Christians is that we place God first in everything, for it is in Him that we will find the motivation and the strength, despite our own weakness and negligence, to accomplish the things that He has in store for us. 
This is true not only with regard to Holy Mass, but also with our daily prayer life. As Christians we have been constantly instructed by Our Lord that prayer is essential to our relationship with God. In the garden of Gethsemane He tells Sts. Peter, James and John to: "Watch and pray that you may not en­ter into temptation. The spirit is will­ing, but the flesh is weak" (Mt. 26:41). If we are to resist these temptations to choose lesser goods over God, then it is essential that we pray contantly. Each one of use has a unique and in­tensely personal relationship with God, and it is up to us to cultivate that friendship by making a special effort to stop and visit Him in the Blessed Sacrament, by saying the rosary, and by conversing with Him is a way that best fits our individual personalities. It is very important that we do not take the attitude that after finals it will be possible to do all of these things; this is precisely what we are to avoid. God wants us to turn to Him now and He wants to be an integral part of every aspect of our lives. He· wants us to be aware of His presence and His preeminence in every endeavor that we take on. Let us not approach finals week as unbelievers would. Let us approach them filled with humility and with con­fidence, knowing that we have turned to God, the source of our strength. 

Finally, I wish to say something about Our Lady. No prayer life would be as fruitful as God intends it to be without recourse to the Great Mother of God, Mary most Holy. This is espe­cially relevant to us at Notre Dame. This is not only for Catholics, but also for the entire community. Mary is the mother of all; she wishes to draw all of us closer to her son. We have the great privilege of living in a Marian year, a year set aside by our Holy Fa­ther, Pope John Paul II, to call the at­tention of the entire world to the great gift that God has given us in His Mother. Now is the time for us to reflect over the past academic year to see how well we have taken advantage of this year of grace. The time is now because the Marian year will end on August 15, 1988. When the fall semester begins, the Marian year will be over. Now is a good 
On Sunday, Feb. 14, 1988, I was in Calgary, Canada, participating in the 1988 Winter Olympic Games. I was scheduled to speed skate in the 500 me­ter race that evening. On that same morning, just hours before my event, I received some tragic and heartbreak­ing news: my sister, after a year-long battle with leukemia, passed away. I had known my sister was seriously ill, and being away from home a lot, I could not be with her as often as I would have liked. When I did have a chance to talk with Jane, she told me: "You don't have to win a medal, just do your best." In my grief and sorrow, I tried to skate, I tried my best! As fate would have it, I fell in both events, but I did give if my best effort. 
This was a very sad and tragic time for me. I received support letters, cards and telegrams from people all over the United States and Canada, and when a person experiences a loss such as I had, sometimes they are so hurt that they feel alone in the world. These letters made me realize that I was not alone, but in the company of many caring people. 
It is your generous contribution, three months after the death of my sister, that made me realize that the care and concern people displayed is not an immediate response generated by the media and the tragedy at hand, but a true and deep human compassion for the welfare of others. 

Again, I thank you for your contribu­tion, and I pray that this will be the check responsible for finding the cure for leukemia. 
Dan Jansen 

U.S. Olympic Speedskater April 28, 1988 
Tyson extends best wishes 
Dear Editor: 

I should like to take this opportunity to extend my best wjshes and prayers to the Class of 1988 as its members prepare to move on to new ventures. Commencement is a time of mixed emotions for many who leave. Excite­ment, apprehension, happiness and sadness all come together during Commencement Weekend. 
For those of you who are graduating seniors, it is my hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an education of the mind and of the 
Garry Trudeau 
BOY, /AI& MAY HAVE HAO MaRe IN(.()MMON IN C0/,1,&:66 7HAN ~ 7HCXJGHT. I I«JNIJfil< IAJHY tut f)tON'T HAlle 7He5/?FUl./NGS FU?.IiACH O'!HlfR 8ACJ< THEW...  OH... RIGHT. I  
"""  

time to see if one has benefitted from the various activities that were spon­sored by Campus Ministry in honor of this extraordinary year. The Rosary celebrations of October 7 and February 11, for the feasts of the Holy Rosary and Lourdes, and the special Masses that were held on December 8 and March 25 for the feasts of the Immac­ulate Conception and Annunciation were times when the University com­munity publically rejoiced with Our Lady. It would be sad if one did not participate out of indifference or misplaced priorities. However, even if this is the case, all is not lost. One can still take advantage of the remainder of the Marian year. There wil be a public ceremony at the Grotto on Sun­day May 1 at 6:45p.m. It will consist of the rosary, which is said there everyday, along with Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. May is the month of Mary, and this is a beautiful way to usher it in. It also affords us a way to consecrate the remainder of the semes­ter to God through the Blessed Mother. This is also the revival of a tradition here at Notre Dame (stop and look at the Marian year display in the library concourse ifyou want to see how it was done in the past). So let's end this year on the right note, regardless of what particular practices you choose, seek the kingdom of God first, and the other things will follow. 
John J. A. Raphael is a junior currently enrolled in the College of Arts and Let­ters. 
heart. May your commitment to your faith in God and to service match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. Notre Dame has high ex­pectations of its students. The tremen­dous contribution that our alumni make to oul' society and to the Church is a testament to the importance of those high expections. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and professional degress, it is my hope that you will take with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. If you bring to your chosen field a strong set of ethical con­victions and a commitment to justice, you will represent the best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a note of gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here. You have also made a variety of contribu­tions to your colleagues, the institution and those of us who remain to assist students who come in the future. 
May the Lord go with each of you. We are blessed to have you as a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Family. 
Father David T. Tyson, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs April 27,1988 
Quote of the Day 
"What made us friends when first we met? Well, I think know; 
The best In me and the best In you hailed each other because they knew that always and always since life began, our being friends was part of God's plan." 
Fr. Joe Carey, C.S.C. Dillon Graduation News May 15, 1987 

~--------------~-------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint

pag_e 14 Friday, April 29, 1988 
Decide between truth and myth 
"Refugee Camps Tell Real Story," Apr. 26 . These writers tried to attack Billy Lerman who presented a letter, entitled "Palestine: the Facts and the Myths," on April 20. In his letter, Mr. Lerman tried to base his arguments upon citations of specific speakers who are not considered to be friends of Is­rael, unfortunately, supporting Israel in their words. (A nice methodology demonstrated by a freshman at Notre Dame). 
Dr. Asher Brenner 

guest column 
Mr. Shannon tried to present the side of the Arabs in the West Bank who were his hosts for a couple of months. I suspect that their reports lighted his imagination ("One specific case that occurred while I was in the Holy Land"). Dear Mr. Shannon, have you personally evidenced this incident? Could you cite (and send me) any printed report describing this case? 
I suppose th-at the gentlemen Bualuan and Al-Farisi, are natives of some "friendly" Arab countries, who have forced me to be a soldier for the last 16 years (with a leave of two years at Notre Dame). Reading their review, I assume they don't belong to the Depar­tment of History. I would like to refer to the terms "Deir-Yasseen" and "Sabra and Shatila," mentioned by the two gentlemen in one breath. "Deir­Yasseen" was an arabic village where in Israel in order to prevent such cases in the future. 
"Sabra and Shatila" are two refugee camps in Beiruth, Lebanon, where during the Israeli invasion to Lebanon in 1982, Christian Arabs (the Lebanese Falangas) killed near 800 innocent Mos­lem Arabs. Commission of inquiry called by hundreds of thousands Israeli demonstrators in Tel Aviv found some of the Israeli leaders at that time, with indirect responsibility for this case, be­cause of their inability to predict the revenge motivated actions of the Chri­stian fighters. 
I would like to refer to some "literary gems" regarding the Israeli Arabs. I was teaching at the Technion in Haifa, where nearly ten percent of my stu­dents were Israeli Arabs. Their "passes' (Bualuan and Al-Farisi) to the University, were their BMW and Volvo cards which drove them from their "ghettos" (the unforgettable, Chris Julka, in his artical on Feb. 1). Yes, it is true that they don't enjoy all the rights in Israel. Therefore, this sum­mer, when I will be back, I will fight and demonstrate in order that they will get the right to serve three years in the Israeil Defense Army as equal citizens. 
Mr. Gaffney tried to reject the argu­ments of Mr. Lerman, using "original translation" for two Israeli books in or­der to present his pro-Arabic views. I am not sure whether Mr. Gaffney has read Menachem Begin's book (Begin was not responsible for Deir­Yasseen! ) , I am doubtful if he has even seen the binding of Geula Cohen's book (would you believe that she called her­self a terrorist?). 
It was surprising to find the same term ("Stern Gang") in the letters of both Mr. Gaffney and Mr. Araman. I suppose that they are both fed with the same "objective" history literature. Another amazing finding is their com­mon and genius idea to take a poll in the refugee camps in order to find out who caused the refugees problem. I would like to address the attention of the readers to the basic fact that refugees (everywhere in the world) have always been and consequence of violence. If you will carefully study the history of the Jewish,'Arabic conflict, you may conclude that in all violent confrontations (1920-21, 1929, 1936-39, 1947, 1956, 1967, 1973), the initiators were the Arabs themselves. 

Another aspect which is not well un­derstood by Mr. Gaffney is the differ­ence between terrorists and freedom fighters. Indeed, Menachem Begin and Ytizchak Shamir (former president and prime minister of Israel), were called "terrorists" by the British army. However, they have not killed any British woman or child, nor have they hijacked any British airplane. They have not attacked any British sportsman in the Olympic games and have not put and bomb in the heart of London. I don't think the PLO deserves any relation in this discussion. I hope the readers will judge this in their search for the truth. 
I must indicate that I agree with Mr. Araman that "refugee camps tell the real story." This is the story of the Arab countries who have insistently rejected every trial offered by their goals to dis­cuss this problem. They have always selected war as a means to achieve their goals while preserving the camps for the eyes of the world. The other "facts" presented by Mr. Araman are interesting. May I suggest that those interested will read some American history books? For example, the math­ematical analysis of the fighting forces balance in the 1948 war, presented by the latter. Mr Araman probably forgot to mention that five Arabic armies (Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt) fought aside the 2200 Palestin­ian fighters. Let's all forgive him for his tiny mistake. 
Dear readers, I have followed the celebration of network news describing the rioting in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. I also know that there are other, more effective ways to silence such troubles. Hussain, King of Jordan, dem­onstrated it well during "Black Septem­ber," 1970, when his troops killed nearly fifteen thousand Palestinians in the Hammat, Syria, in 1986. Another il­lustrative lesson was demonstrated by the Iraqui leaders who killed hundreds ef civilians in a chemical weapon at­tack. This last incident which happened only a few weeks ago, has not driven demonstrators to the steps of the Ad­ministration Building. 
I must admit that not all the Arab countries produce oil (as mentioned by Bualuan and Al-Farisi). However, they all together initiated the oil crisis in the seventies. They allied to the UN resolu­tion that "Zionism is a form of Racism" 0975), and tomorrow if they wish, they can lead to a UN resolution that the Sahara camel is a lion. 
Dear readers, I would like to apologize for my attempt to lead you through my opinions. As a faithful reader of this newpaper, I am confident in your intelligence, and I call those of you who are interested in this subject to carefully study this issue in order to select the truth and the myth in all recent letters. 
I think I represent a generation of realistic Israelis who do not believe that they should be "light for the nations." However, we all believe in our right to exist and defend ourselves in a tiny piece of land called Israel. Last week we celebrated our 40th independence anniversary. I am sure that some mis­takes have been done during these years, and more will be done. However, we shall seek for negotiation, compro­mise and peace. 
The discussion summerized herein, concentrated in the history of the Is­raeli/Arabic conflict. During a search for the truth in a forest of legend and history, one may find that there is one side who has always written, sang and hoped for peace, and the other side who has always answered by war. I will lecwe the solution of this war and peace puzzle to the readers. 
Mr. Asher Brennan is a professor in the Department of Civil Engineering. 
P.O. Box Q 

NO and SMC must regain unity 
Dear Editor: 

This letter has taken me quite a long 
time for formulate in my head. What I 
want to say is not too easy--especially 
now with my four years in this commu­
nity coming to a close. Throughout the 
past years I have witnessed many 
changes within our Notre Dame-Saint 
Mary's society--some that have been 
fruitful, some that have not. 

Being a senior, and becoming some­
what involved with the inner workings 
of Saint Mary's, I have witnessed many 
circumstances which I feel are not very 
becoming of two institutions of higher 
education. Both schools have a fine 
record of educating individuals in a 
stimulating, spiritual atmosphere, yet 
when one begins to see what lies under­
neath the surface, it is easy to become 
quickly disheartened. 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­
munity has since childhood been a very 
important part of my life--as it has been 
to a good number of others in this so­
ciety. I have a long traditional back­
ground with both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and now that I am a senior at Saint Mary's, I can't help but to recog­nize that my admiration has somewhat dwindled. 
The unity between the two campuses, in my opinion, seems to be in a sad state. I am not speaking of actual uni­fication, but instead one of heart and mind. Particularly, I would like to ad­dress this to the students at both schools who appear to be too caught up in the pettiness of immaturity to realize the actual impact of the pain which they are afflicting on others. I do not think this is what either insitution wants to impress upon their students. Becoming intellectually stimulated people, as well as individuals able to discuss and work with one another in an atmo­sphere of fellowship, seems to be re­
flective of the Christian education we are all receiving here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
My point is not to anger individuals but to advise the underclassmen on the dangers of becoming separate entities, and instead to strive for a collegiate atmosphere where individuals from each institution can share intellectual, as well as social interaction. Each school shares in the other's history, and 

that is impossible to deny. My hope is .that the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community of the future will succeed in overcoming the barriers which have separated them in the past. 
Francesca Trigiana 
LeMans Hall 
April 28, 1988 

Bands on quad hinder studying 
Dear Editor: 

If I were to say that there are many final exams, as well as "regular" ex­ams this week, people would make light of the fact that I probably just made another sarcastic, or even ignorant, comment of something which I just came to realize. However, there are some people out there who apparently are more ignorant or oblivious to those obvious things in life than I am. I am writing about the scheduling of bands to play around the time of finals week on Fieldhouse Mall. Last year, on a night before finals began, a band set up and proceeded to "rock" the quad, much to the frustration of the members of BP, Farley, Zahm, and especially Cavanaugh. My applause goes out the the individual in Cavanaugh who put his speakers in the window and, in his own loud words, told the band to stop. Well some people never quite get the point, as I am now listening to WVFI without the benefit of an AM radio. These individuals, and the ones who schedule them to be there, (we all know which college they are in), are obvi­ously unaware of impending finals and other exams this year as well. Maybe they deserve the benefit of the doubt; it's not that they are oblivious to reason, it's just that they don't care. I hope they prove me wrong on both counts. Other­wise, someone will again sonically demonstrate the adage "Actions speak louder that words." But please, let's be civilized; if those who schedule the music would care to be considerate and meet with the hall councils of the north quad dorms, maybe we can avoid mixing music with the interesting sounds of O'Hare International Airport. 
William C. Pierce Cavanaugh Hall April 26, 1988 

Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette ShiHs
Notre Dame du Lac a·nd Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Phpto Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Founded November 3,1966 
-~--~--··--­
Friday, April 29, 1988 page 15
The Observer 


adidas.._~~·

MANY MORE
~~ 
KID'S e MEN'S e WOMEN'S"'.;. 
~~::__ ' COnVERSE -~ ........· 
-
(:laabok c 
CAMERAS 
AD BY SUN GRAPHICS 
LEATHER JACKETS 
0 MEN'S & WOMEN'S6 0 LEATHER JACKETS 
FASHION • CYCLE UI"TO 
SOOfo OFF 

TWIN BRANCH 
FURNITURE 

SOUTHSIDE FURNITURE 
RECLINERS * BEDROOMS * DINErrES * 
""""''......... 
20th CENTURY 
$488 
RECLINER GROUP 
COLONIAL COCKTAIL HEX-COMMODE & SQUARE-COMMODE TABLES $(;g 
SOLID OAK, SMOKE GLASS, 3-PC EARLY AMERICAN LIVINGROOMBRAS TRIM END TABLES 

PILUJW.ARM, ANTROIIINYLDN COVERS, HANJWOOO FUlKS, SPRIU fDII COISTIUC'OOI,
S79
ALL WOOD 

FillY lllllltll SUITIII AT 
$595 
BAR STUOIS 

$44 'f/1/AUTY FURNITURE AT THE BEST MUCH 
PRICES EYER OFFEREr . MORE 
PICTURES NOT NECESSARILY REPRESENTATIONAL • All SALES FINAL • E-ACH SlORE RESPONSIBLE FOR OWN MERCHANDISE 
FLOOR LAMPS ,_ $28 TABLE LAMPS,_ $19 
COPYRIGHT SUPfR SALH Of AllliiiiCA, INC. 11M18 


--------~---~----~­
Th& Observer 


Som'place Else som'thing else 
ACCENT STAFF 
J""'\'n't let the rough exterior of .l...lthe Golden Eagle Motel and Its restaurant Som'place Else keep from dining there; a hearty meal awaits the adventurous eater. Som'place Else offers a variety of steaks and seafood at exceptionally reasonable prices. 
Located on U.S . .31 In Niles, Michigan, Som'place Else Is quite a journey from the Dome, but well worth the drive. The Golden Eagle Motel Is not the most glamorous of hotels and Som'place Else reminded these reviewers of a cozy hole-in-the­wall. 

While the cornucopia of crack­ers and breadsticks was enough to satisfy us until the arrival of the main course, the absence of appetizers was disappointing. Unfortunately the small dish of cheese that accompanied the crackers could have used some refrigeration --a thin crust had formed on the surface. 
The salads which were in­cluded in the price of the entrees were good but not ex­ceptional. Fresh lettuce topped with croutons and beets were highlighted by an assortment of 


Address: U.S.N. 31 Niles, 
Michigan 
Reservations: on weekends 
Recommended: steaks and baked potatoes Prices: $5 for sandwiches 

homemade dressings. Although the rolls were served warm, they did not appear homemade. In addition, the butter also suffered from a lack of refrigeration. 
The entree on the other hand 
was well worth the walt. The New 
York Strip steak ($9.95) com­
pared with the best restaurants 
frequented by these reviewers. 
The succulent steak was served 
with a large sweet baked potato 
smothered In sour cream. 
The meat from which the 
chopped sirloin ($5.65) was 
prepared was excellent; fat was 
nonexistant and the gristle which 
usually accompanies such a dish 
was kept to a minimum. Unfor­
tunately, the meat was slightly 
undercooked, but this did not 
detract from the overall excel­
lence of the dish. 
Some might ask. "What is beef tenderloin en brochette?" It is beef skewered with vegtables somewhat like a shish-ka-bob, and if you want to try an excel­lent example of this dish ($8.25) Som'place Else is the place to go. The beef was excellent and well prepared. It is difficult to avoid over-cooking such a dish, yet the cooks did an admirable 
job with the prepartion. 
As one expects from any res­taurant, Som'place Else does indeed serve alcohol. There is a large bar and wine is also of­fered on the menu. Other noteworthy entrees include the spaghetti ($4.65), the fried chicken ($4.95) and the french fried shrimp ($8.25). All meals include salad, potato, rolls, and coffee. 
The owner promises in the menu, "We want you to ef1ioy every meal enough to tell a friend." He delivers what he promises. We enjoyed our meal enough to tell 12,000 of our 

The Smithereen' s 
Green Thoughts 
RICHARD THORNBURGH accent writer 
W 
ith their latest album Green Thoughts, The Smithereens attempt to broaden their musical style but only manage to produce a confused menagerie of songs with few bright spots. 
Cpmposed of Pat DiNizio on guitar and lead vocals, Jim Bab­jak on guitar, Dennis Diken on drums, and Mike Mesaros on bass, the band has a 50's rock­n-roll sound which they per­fected through years of playing small clubs in New York and on the East coast. They played for a year as the backup band for Otis Blackwell of "Great Balls of Fire" fame. 

Especially For You, their 1986 album, enjoyed great sucess as well as harsh criticism. The band stuck to their simple style and hit the charts with "Blood and Roses" and "Behind the Wall of Sleep." However, some critics claimed that all the songs sounded alike and disapproved of their obsession with loneli­ness ("Alone at Midnight," "In a Lonely Place"). 
Their new album, Green Thoughts, tries to capitalize on the band's sucessful style as well as expand it in response to the critics. The result is confusion. Several songs are catchy, but none have the sparkle of those on their last album. The first two songs on side one, "Only a Memory'' and "House We Used to Live In" are hard driving rock tunes with nothing memorable. 
The lyrics of "Home" are very 
repetitious and simple. 
The other three songs on the side form a weird series of country, hard rock. and jazz styles. In "Something New," the band really does try something different with a country sound of twangy guitars similar to The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. "The World We Know" is a weak attempt at a heavy metal type sound, and "Especially For You" completes the strange combination with Steve Berlin (not Beuerlein) on saxaphone and a jazzy brush beat on the drums. 
Lead singer and songwriter Pat DiNizio calls his songwriting process an "intuitive one." He says that a lot of writers are get­ting away from the classic songwriting structure. "There are a lot of songs, particularly a lot of the funk things, written around rhythms" or riffs instead of melody. DiNizio says, "I believe that the bottom line is always the song. The Smit­hereens have always stood for and believed in a good, well crafted pop song." 
"Elaine" is the only standout on side two and sounds similar to the western rock of The Beat Farmers. 
The Smithereens can't be ex­pected to stagnate with their 50's sound, but Green Thoughts shows that they haven't quite mastered any other styles yet. Nevertheless, they remain one of the most promising solid bands to hit the scene in recent years. Their lyrics take a hard, intelli­gent look at relationships, and their simple rock-n-roll is refreshing after the deluge of techno-pop on the radio waves. 

acce 
I 

l\ fter listenin! nMurphy's lat Hysteria, I got t did when I first Pop's last albun Blah. Both artis for their powert 
singing styles ~ victimized by a zealous produc give Love Hyst rating as Pop's ; Blah!" 


. ':," 
'·• \, 

I· 
I, j 
ve Hysteria is h, blah, blah 
MANCINI 1t writer 
to Peter est release, Love he same feeling I
~ 
listened to lggy n Blah, Blah, ts are well known ui, provocativelut seem to be Je and over­ers. Sadly, I must ria the same ··"Blah, Blah, 
REVIEW 
,, 
"~ 

once the un­spirit of olted and :>re sedate, rna­years of being 1is previous lust 
and lack of .y, I found it hard 
~lodramatlc 
ove Hysteria. a soloist in 198.3 pie of years 
'SOUnd he felt 
the World Fail this song gets some radio e album was airplay, it might hit the top of e Murphy al-the pop charts. 

Murphy has changed the tone of his lyrics on this album. He has replaced his powerful songs of pain, sorrow and revenge with songs about love and relation­ships. 
Despite these changes In style, Love Hysteria will probably do very well. The music is fine tuned and easy to listen to al­though it might put you to sleep. However there Is one song worth noting: the delight­fully evil "Socrates the Python." 
The energy that pervaded the Bauhaus albums as well as Murphy's last album is lacking on this one. Peter Murphy's in­credibly powerful voice carried his earlier works. However Love Hysteria is not something to scream about, mainly because Peter didn't. lowed his sinister and surreal instruments to do their own thing. Love Hysteria, however, is completely different. 
Love Hysteria Is mechanically sound because of the well­organized accompaniment, but Murphy's voice is quite restrained. The music is light and eerie: an effect Illustrated by 

•

I.'s IS 
ACCENT STAFF 

L
ocated at 21.3 N. Front St. in Niles MJ, N.J.'s Old Towne Saloon Is certainly worth the 20 minute trip. H.l. 's offers a wide assortment of burgers, salads, soups, sandwiches, and entrees. If your taste runs to ethnic foods, N.J.'s menu includes Mexican and Cc\Jun dishes too. N.J.'s could concentrate more on quality rather than quantity, but overall it's a solid bet. 

In addition to the varied menu, N.J.'s offers a unique atmosphere that changes with the holidays. The colored lights and bunnies that hung from the ceiling created a festive and lively feeling in the old saloon. The large antique bar featured a variety of canadian and American beer on tap although prices were a little steep. 
The appetizers we chose were by far the highlight of the meal. We began our meal with the potato skins and onion rings. Each potato skin was generously covered with cheddar cheese and bacon bits, and served with sour cream. The onion rings were delicious: the large slices were fried to a crisp in a light batter that was far from greasy. 
The night we reviewed N.J.'s, the menu featured half-priced hamburgers so being economically minded, we went with the special. The gourmet burger ($4.25) combined mush­rooms and swiss cheese with a rich gravy served on the side to complement the sand­wich. The other burger we tried was the bacon burger which really was nothing out of the ordinary. While the burgers were large and not 
I 
·~·· 
Friday, April 29, 1968 



a good buy 
too greasy, they were only served medium -­just medium. 
The other sandwiches we tried were the gyro and the ribeye steak sandwich. The gyro was disappointing as the meat resembled the type bought frozen In a package. The ribeye steak 
....­
sandwich was also disappointing because It was rare and yet somehow tough. 
The specialties of the house were quite varied: from Seafood De Jonghe, shrimp and crab meat with mushrooms baked In De Jonghe butter, to Bacon Wrap Filet an entree with a 6 oz. filet wrapped In bacon strips and then broiled. The prices for these entrees appeared to be reasonable too ($8-$11). 
The desserts looked very tempting (New York cheese cake particularly), but due to the fantas­tic appetizers we were too stuffed to try them. They also offered Ice cream drinks such as the Dream Cicle (amaretto with orange juice) and After Dinner Mint (tia mia with creme de menthe) which also sounded good. 
By far the most exciting events of the night were watching the miniature train wind Its way around the dining area followed by a trip to the second floor after dinner to play the Love Tester game. For a quarter you can find out If your Hot Stuff or just Blah depending on where the light stops. 
N.J.'s Old Towne Saloon features a large menu, lively atmosphere, and moderate prices and deserves some student attention. 
Hi's Old Towne Saloon 
Address: 213 N. Front St. Phone:(616) 684-777 Niles, Michigan Prices: $5 for chicken Recommended: $8-10 for steaks Appetizers, Entrees 
J 

-
-
.1: 
~ 
t 
Ill: 

'8 -.t 
~ 
J ~ 
.0 
'! 

I-... 

.. 
. 


Friday, April 29, 1988
18 The 


(i-.·] 
. -~ 
·• 
t '

I " leJI. DO~ I NO'S PIZZA" GUARANTEES ... .. l. " -~ 
em1
.. -;,-~ 
~-~ ~ 

HOT. 
Your pizza from Domino's Pizza u is always hot and fresh from the oven because it's delivered -like magic-in less than 30 minutes. We guarantee it!* 

GS. 
Redeem the discount coupons below and save on your next purchase from Domino's Pizza. Call now before the offer disappears! 

Call us! 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery area.277-2151 *Call store for details. 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
r-------------------, r------------------.., 
I ONE MEDIUM I I ONE MEDIUM I I CHEESE PIZZA I I CHEESE PIZZA I 
I I I I 
: $3.99 : : $3.99 : 
Additional items only 60¢! Additional items only 60¢!
1 1 1 1 
10 slices of hot delicious pizza! 10 slices of hot delicious pizza! 
1 1 1 1 1 Delivered to your door in 30 minutes 1 Delivered to your door in 30 minutes 
1 1 
~. 
·­
1 •• or you get $3.00 off! 1 1 • or you get $3.00 off! 1 I · Expires: 5-8-88. Open for lunch! 1 I · Expires: 5-8-88. Open for lunch! 1 
1 : . ~'!) One coupon per order. Not vahd with any other offer. 1 1 • One coupon per order. Not vahd With any other offer. 1 Valid al participating locations. • na:mel • · ® Vahd at part1c1pat1ng locahons. na:mel
..___.. __________________ ...J L ___________________ .____.. 
• • • -· • • ••• • ••• ·. ··~··• .., -•... :.. ~ ~ '• •.. ~ 1. & "' t t t r ' • ~ · • • • • -.-, • -·• ·• o9 J •-" •· •# A' a·.._. 6 • f 11 • f f y f • • t' y I' • 9 • t' • • • • • • 6 a .,, •' .... • •'. r.' . 
Friday, ~pril 29, 1988 
Accent 
page 19 
•

A time for Wine and roses 
E 
lie Wiesel tells the story of of the tragedy you've lived the collapse of your dreams-­at life, until you have flrst cried out ever meeting a priest. a Gregor, a sutvivor of the through. You cry from the sor­for this kind of crying to start. over it. The laughing and the football coach, or the University Holocaust. seeking a new fu­row that makes you feel dead As you cried a~ birth, so you crying are spiritual gifts that President. That's like saying 
ture after the horrendous trials Inside, and from the pain that cry once more when you're have more grace In them than that you got a high grade In a 
of his past. On the advice of a makes you feel any form of born again. The Roman liturgy the gift of tongues. class In which you never 
friend, he visits a rabbi. When death would be an escape and 
has a prayer for the gift of The walls of the campus are opened a book. or took notes. the rabbi asks what Gregor ex­merciful. You cry when the log­tears. Gregory, in Wiesel's covered with notices. Father It's no compliment to the pects of him, Gregor answers: jam of lee piled against your story, was fresh from the 
Henry Nouen says that those of teacher, but who Is the loser, If "Make me able to cry." heart has finally broken, and Holocaust; why must he ask: us engaged In a ministry of you paid for an education In 
The rabbi shakes his head. you have accepted the limita­"Make me able to cry?" He presence--which refers to the which you didn't get your "That Is not enough. I shall tions of the human condition; hasn't exactly been spending way you and I have of being money's worth, or earned a 
the winter on the borscht cir­present to one another--should degree that you don't respect? 
cuit. Perhaps to sutvive the be concerned over a ministry Are you happy here, or rest­
death camps, he had to harden of absence--or a way of being less? You'll flnd that out later,
Father Robert Griffin 
himself and not cry at all; he creatively absent from one an­after you have separated your thought the agony might be memories Into clusters,
Letters to a Lonely God 
other. 
washed out of him, If he could This means we leave our representing the good times 
generate a flood of tears. St. friends with good memories: and the bad. When you start teach you to sing. Grown to be in pain Is at least to live. Exupery wrote: "It is such a kind words, signs of affection, wishing that the good times people don't cry, beggars don't You cry, and from the crying secret place, the land of tears." gestures of sympathy, peaceful could come again, you're on ­cry ... Crying Is for children. Are comes purification; It would be your way to being In love with you still a child, and is your life easier for the brain to put on a I suspect that the cosmic "I hope you have the place forever. 
a child's dream? No, crying's crown of thorns tipped with secret, which God does not tell 
happY memories ... " 
no use. You must sing. fire. In this catharsis, the soul us until we're ready, Is that life, The campus has great char­I would like the story better If starts to rid itself of the self­
though It treats you roughly, is silences, and joyful celebra­acters whom you've been Gregor had asked the rabbi: poisioning. which has numbed not written to be a tragedy, but tions. This Is why goodbyes are waiting to meet. Why don't you"Make me able to sing." and It In the dullness of limbo. 
a comedy. It's a divine comedy, Important; they should be full Introduce yourself now, before the rabbi answered, "That is If the Imagery of language 
full of what Virgil calls of lovely rituals that linger like you go home? You may be not enough. I shall teach you here embarrasses you--like 
"lacrimae rerum," the tears of a presence. more pleased, later on, with Jaow to cry." I said, "to cry," Shelley's, "I fall upon the things. 
Hellos are important too. the hellos that you said at please notice, not "to weep." thorns of life! I bleedl"--color Chesterton reminded us that Now that the year Is ending. we graduation than you are with 
Children weep because they're me a romantic, of whom much Christ never hid His tears, but should start saying the hellos the goodbyes.frustrated; fools weep because should be forgiven because he 
only His laughter. He climbed we've postponed; in other If you walt ten years to meet they are sentimental. Neurotics 
has a cold. the mountains to be alone; words, we'd better speak out your all-time favorite campusweep when they are full of self­Crying on this Olympian level 
there was something in His now, or we may forever have to personality at an alumni event-­pity. Spoiled people weep to face that His followers were not hold our peace. and you flnd that he or she Is get their own way. "Are you happy allowed to see; they wouldn't The seniors used to make a as wonderful as you had 
Crying. when you think of it. 
here, or restless?" have understood it; it would Last Visit to Sacred Heart hoped--both of you may be sad expresses a great human emo­have scandalized them. Church on graduations because the great friendshiption. Weeping is to crying what • may only happen a half a 
Christ kept them from seeing weekend. For a few of them, It that could have existed has to giggling Is to laughter. dozen times in your life, or His mirth, His joy, His laughter was a first visit; they'd never be called on account of dark­Weeping can be a prelude to maybe only once, in the let 
on the mountains which only been inside the church before. ness. Nobody meets everybody,crying; a warmup exercise; a down that comes after you His Father heard. The trauma 
but you can have a good time substitute, until the real thing 
have sutvived the breaking In which He was the chief actor I know an old grad who trying. I hope you have happy comes along. point. You may walt for years-­is part of the Divine Comedy. 
seems proud to say that he memories of the friends who Crying begins In the flnal act after the funeral. the breakup, Maybe you can't start laughing went through Notre Dame with-you love. 



eaZy'''pc 
Sin.1.de Floppy I >ri\·e: 

~ll\.!\.!t'~ll'd rt·Liil pnl"t·: $999 our price only: $499 
I>ual Fl< >ppy I >ri\T: 

~ll.\.!.\.!t':-;lt'd I"t'LIIi pnl"t·: $1199 our price only: $599 
Sin.de Floppy \\·ith I brei I >isk: 
~ll.\.!.1-!t'~lt'd rt'!;1il pri(v: $1699 our price only: $899 
The eaZy ™pc from Zenith Data Systems gives you a full-featured computer that's so simple to operate, you can be up and running within minutes after opening the box. And it even comes with a 14" monochrome moni­tor attached. Along with an easy-to-use keyboard, and compact, high-capacity 3Y2" disk drive. Added to all this, you get some very important extras ... 
Like service and support. As an authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll give you a full demonstra­tion. Match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met. 
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 
·­
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center-x7689 
'\.
-or-Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 
\ 


.>­
data 

systems 

Friday, April 29, 1988 
page 20 The Observer 
Recruiting slows progress as coaches prepare clubs 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
Progress has been slow but 
sure for Notre Dame's three 
new varsity sports. 
Arrangements for the upgrading of three club sports to varsity level for the 1988-89 school year are on schedule, al­though the are not expected to draw top talent for another year. 
"When softball was named to varsity status, the timing was kind of late to begin recruiting prospects,'' said Assistant Ath­letic Director and future wo­men's softball coach Brian Boulac. "We didn't actively get 

-out and recruit this year. We have a couple coming in who are competing in high school, but I don't know if they'll be the ones to take us to the new level." 
Notre Dame soccer coordin­ator Dennis Grace echoes Boulac's felings. 
"When the announcement was made, a lot of the top girls were already comitted (to other schools)" said Grace. 'It's very tough for us." 
With the women's soccer season beginning in the fall, Grace has had just a few months to get to know the club team and to put together a schedule for the team. Included in the 19-game schedule are three Irish soccer doubleheaders, with the men's and women's teams facing the same school. 
"It will bE> very competi­tive," said Grace. "We're using the same philosophy -I used for the men's team when I arrived here--put them up against the best teams. In the long run it will greatly benefit the program." 
A coach still has not been named for the women's golf team. Although the team com­petes in both the fall and spring, the official NCAA season occurs in the spring. 
Both the softball and soccer teams have two scholarships for next year, but both Boulac and Grace indicated that they may not use the entire allot­ment. 
"We're not going to give out scholarships just to give them out," said Grace. 

Morrissey tops I H baseball; Stanford to face St. Joe's 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
Stanford A defeated Holy Cross by forfeit Thursday to ad­vance to the quarierfinal round in Interhall baseball tourna­ment action. 
According to Holy Cross' Mike Camhi, the Hogs were not aware that the game, which was postponed Wednesday due to rain, was to be made up 
IU's Jones part of drug rumor 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX, Ariz.-The NFL's Phoenix Cardinals say they still intend to sign Indiana wide receiver Ernie Jones, their seventh-round draft pick this week, even though he repor­tedly tested positive for drugs. 
Two Phoenix newspapers re­ported Thursday that Jones, who was projected to be a second-rowld selection, fell from favor with other NFL teams for twice testing positive for marijuana at scouting com­bines this year. 
Both The Amona Republic and the Phoenix Gazette cited unidentified sources for the story. 
Until Jones signs a contract with the Cardinals, however, the team can't do anything ex­cept offer him advice if he does have a drug problem. 
Team vice president Curt Mosher said the club still in­tends to sign Jones. 

"I'm sure we will vigorously --attempt to sigll every player we drafted," he said. 
George Boone, the Cardinals' director of player personnel, makes the final decision on who the team drafts and defended the choice of Jones. 
"I will say this--if we didn't think this player would be worthwhile, we'd never have taken him," Boone said. "We wouldn't mess with someone talent-wise or character-wise if we didn't feel he'd line up and 
do the job for us." 
Last fall, Jones was named the Big Ten Conference's most valuable player after catching 59 passes for 1,115 yards and 12 touchdowns. 
Thursday. Stanford A will meet St. Joe's Friday in the quarter­final round. 
St. Joe's defeated Zahm and Pangborn earlie. this week to advance. Dan Harzencik of St. Joe's believes that his team will rely on what got them this far to beat Stanford A. 
"Our team has been a really good hitting team, "says Har­zencik. "We need to keep hit­ting the way we've been, and we need to get strong perfor­mances from our pitchers." 
The winner of the Stanford A-St. Joe's game will go on to face the Cavanaugh Bandits this weekend. Whoever comes out on top in that game will op­pose Morrissey in the finals. Since Morrissey cruised through the winner's bracket without a loss, its opponent must beat them twice to claim the championship. 
Don't throw away those old clothes or furniture, give them to the END OF THE YEAR CLOTHING DRIVE As you do your spring cleaning, place cloth­ing, furniture and other items in the barrels located in each dorm. For klfo. or special pick up call: 239-7018 I 239-6536 I 234-6000 $tarting April 29 Pick ups: May 2,1 o,17 
Sponsored by St. Vincent DePaul* *Office ofCampus Ministry** Knights of Columbus 
ENJOY 
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY'S 
MADRID CAMPUS COMPLETE CURRICULUM IN ENGLISH, SPANISH Liberal Arts, Business, 
Science, Hispanic Studies 
JULY SESSION INCLUDES: GRADUATE PROGRAM IN 
HISPANIC STUDIES 
SLU is an AAEOE 
Apply NOW for SUMMER & FALL! 
INFORMATION: TEL 1-800 325-6666 
221 N GRAND BLVD ST. LOUIS, MO 63103 




The Observer I John Studebaker 
The Notre Dame women's soccer club, shown here In action against Saint Mary's last faH, Is getting set to taka the step up to varsity level next fall, playing a tough 19-gama schedule. 
CAR WASH South end of Notre Dame Stadium 
sponsored  by:  Notre  Dame  
Varsity  
Football Team  
.  

Members of the team will be ·washing cars --Fri. 12-6 Sat. 7-7 
Proceeds go to Logan Center 
"HEY OTIS! MY MAN!" 
CITY LIMITS NIGHTCLUB 
f/JROUDL'f f/JRIESIENTS 
OTIS DAY 
& 

TOGA! 
TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! 
THE "ANIMAL With Special Guests: THE EDGE 
FRIDAY, MAY 6th, 1988 
IrS GONNA BE A 
TOGA PARTY! 
$100 PRIZE FOR THE BEST TOGA! 
WEAR YOUR TOGA AND GET A COIIPUIIENTARY PASS FOR A FUTURE EVENING ATCITY L/11/TS 
COME AND HEAR OTIS DAY & THE KNIGHTS DO ALL YOUR FAVORITE ""ANIMAL HOUSE" HITS 
INCLUDING: 

'"SHAMA LAMA DING DONG"", "LOUIE, LOUIE"", AND THE NATIONAL PARTY ANTHEM 
'"SHOUT!" 

TICKETS: $8.00 Advance $10.00 Day of Show 
GENERAL ADMISSION 
LIMITED SEATING AVAILABLE 
DOORS OPEN BPM SHOW STARTS 9:30 
Tickets •v•ll•ble •t: City Limits, Super Sounds. Record Connection, World Records &Tapes, N1ghtw1nds (both locations). Tracks Records & Tapes, Lots ol Sound Adv1ce (Goshen). Nonh Side Aulo (Eikhan). 
DRESS IS CASUAL BUT NEAT (otriclly enloned) YOU MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
CITY LIMITS 1130 W. BRISTOL ST. ELKHART --7148 

Friday, April 29, 1988 page 21
The Observer 

The~ Notnt Dame offl~ located on the third floof ol Lafortune Stu­dent Center eccept11 cluallled .s-tt.tng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvougll Fnday. 'I'M ~Selnt ....,._ office, located on the third floor ol H-oo-conge Center, KC~~~Pta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne tor next~ claaallleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaallleda must
Classifieds be pl'llp86d, althllr In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per live charKterW per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  WANTED ROOMMATE FOR APARTMENT IN GEORGETOWN FROM JUNE TO AU­GUST. GREAT LOCATION AND REASONABLE PRICE. CALL STEVE X1654 ARE YOU GOING TO BE HERE THIS  FOR SALE I Brand new lull size bed, giant dresser with mirror. Call 277-9022. ................................................................ FOR SALE: BROTHER TYPEWRITER, 2-STEREO SPEAKERS, BICYCLE-­MUST SELL CALL 289-6623 AFTER 7:00PM  SUMMER SCHOOL? Need 2 room­metea · NO Apta. CHEAPER THAN DORMS Mike r4328 or Marty 239-8041 c,\A'Per~cHeA'Pi.ii'Eiaii:·a:·x·;·;;:·;;i:rs McCandless double. Buy It now and store itl Call Julie X5426  Thank you, St. Jude. ROCHESTER CLUB: There will not be a baggage truck this semester. Sorry tor any inconvenience! LANCE PATTEN  GEORGIA BOSSELER, HOPE YOU FIND YOUR WAV HOME ON VOUR BIRTHDAY! DISH Cleu ot•ear You've been a g-t group of frlanda, and I wlah you all !he vwy beet. Enjoy  
............................................................,_, Wordproc..alng-Typing 272-8827 ·········iix-;;ii-iir'nPiNa.siiR"iiicii:········ CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 ................................................................ TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 WORDePLUS Scholastic Typing.tditmg Rush Jobs 0 .K. 256·3077 Computer An Fa1r Fnday, April 29 on Roley Hall Room 200. Come see lhe latest in lntoractove An. VIdeodisks, and Computer Musoc at 4 p.m and Computer Ammat1on Videos at 5 p.m. Don't moss the most onnoval•ve computer and an work Noire Dame has seen in years. COMPUTING CENTER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES The Computing Center 11 now takong ap­plications tor Fall '88 student employment w1th1n the User Sarvoceo group. Positions are ava1la~e 1n both microcomputer and mult•·user system areas. Expenence preferred, but nol required lOt' the appli­cation process. Freshmen, sophomores, and women are especially encouraged to apply For more onlormatoon, contact Usa at 239-5153 from 8:30a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday ·Fnday or stop by Room t t ot the Computing Center. MA.; • .:jlj'i.'v"' CARING PERSON exp W'!>re-schoolers, needed tor dajl'l!vng care ol our 3 tots (aged 10 mos. 2, 4) In our home It you can provode care 1 atv.vk OR occaSIOnal evngs OR occasoonal overmtes. phone 232-7273. $3.!>11r; 112 hr wlk to NO TO All MY FELLOW BARTENDERS, MANAGERS, AND SECURITY PEOPLE: THANKS FOR A "BEER-Y" SPECIAL YEAR I I'll MISS YOUI MAUREEN so'.ciii:iFoRN.iA.ci:ua~·'Ei~·;w·~~·;·;;~~i. canceled due to hogh costs,lack ot demand Have a great summer. AN AL300 STATiSTICS SURVEY SHOWS THAT STUDENTS DO NOT IM· PROVE THEIR GEOGRAPHIC AWARE· NESS DURING THEIR FOUR YEARS OF STUDY. THE AVERAGE STUDENT ANSWERED 75.3% OF THE QUES­TIONS CORRECTLY. LOST/FOUND FOUND HP15c CALL 1453 LOST Alli~~-i~~~ i~~k~t ~,it! ~ s~i ot KEYS Inside. Lost on Saturday Apnl 23. It lound, please call -1 need my keys backll Call Ellie at x1253. LOST: One SHARP CALCULATOR and a CROSS PEN & PENCIL set in a tan case. Was droppped between N. Dining Hall and Farley PLEASE return to TINA at •2702, 322 or 318 PW. NEEDED FOR FINALSIII THANKSI LOST: Black & gray pinstripe Jacket at Tovoll's 4119. AND FOUND: Guy's black 1acket at Tovoli's 4119 I'm hoplng we just swotched jackets. Please call Mary Beth 4558. LC)s:r,t:E:ivi olii:ii< BLUE JEAN JACKET WCHECKED LINING FROM SA BAR LAST THUR. MY NAME AND ADRESS ARE ON A LETTER IN THE POCKET WHICH I NEED. NOT TO MENTION THE SENTIMENTAL VALUE OF WHO GAVE ME THE JACKET I KNOW IT WAS ONLY A MISTAKE, AND AS A DECENT PERSON AT A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY YOU WILL RETURN IT TO ME.  SUMMER WITH NOWHERE TO LIVE ? WORRIED ABOUT HAVING TO LIVE ON CAMPUS UNDER SUCH STRENUOUS REGULATIONS ? WORRY NO MORE II TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER RENT AT TURTLE CREEK II GIVE US A CALL AT34980R3506ANDWE'LLSETYOU UP WITH ROOMMATES (OR YOU CAN BRING YOUR OWN). WE DON'T CARE II JUST CALL US OR SPEND A SUM­MER HERE WITH LIMITED FUN AND MAXIMUM RULES ..... 3498 OR 3506 WANTED WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help aave 1 Ute and earn extra cash at the aama time. New and old donors who have not given within 30 days wilt be paid $12 cash alter donating If you bring In thla ad. Come to American Plaoma on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday or Saturday, 515 Llncolnway West, South Bend. 234-6010. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANO.WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMI('S ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914 3814224 Looking tor used Mac call Todd at 1639 with model and price GRADUATING? MOVING TO IN­DIANAPOLIS? LOOKING FOR FEMALE TO SHARE APT OR HOUSE. CALL 2n­5906 WANTED MALE ROOMATE, NEXT YEAR PREFERABLY AT RUNAWAY BAY APTS CALL JOHN 255-7137 Need nde 10 Colorado dunng or lollowing senior week. Willing to share expenses and provide sleepover tor those going to California. Call Pete at •31 05. RIDE NEEDED to Wash. D.C. Area after finals. I can leave Fri. May 6 after 4pm. Call Rich II 3485 .......................... Summer School? Female roomate needed to sublet tor summer. Cheaper than dorms! Kartene II 4068 Anyone with VIdeotape ot NO-ALA loot­ball game-please call Sharon 284-5260 RIDE NEEDED to D.C. Area can leave anytime after Tues May 3 & will share costs Call Amy at 3486 Please lake me home I IN DESPERATE SEARCH OF ... a place of realdence for the aummer? I have the place. Now I need the 111&1­denta. Approximately $14Gtno., In­cluding utllttleo. Call Joe at 287-4906. FOR SALE Government Homeo from $1.00. "U Repair". Alao tax delinquent proparty. Call 805-644-9533 Ext. 1387 lor Info. IBM PC?<T Model 086 10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 840K RAM and Ouadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak ulill1ies and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook 11, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 a.m. 1o 5 p.m. FOR SALE: 18" K-TV, 2 LARGE LAMPS, SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL-SIZE BAR, 2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS ....... CALL 271-0868  79 Blue Chevy Impala. Good condition. Call 3282--Steve 19n 924 PORSCHE, 65,429 MILES. $5,700. CALL 272-5896. FOR SALE: 1983 YAMAHA MOTOR­CYCLE. GOOD CONDITION. 4000 MILES. BEST OFFER. CALL AN AT 283· 3022 . 1985 NISSAN SENTRA Sta.Wag. air,radio,4-spd.,34,000 miles, Excellent Condition. Call after 5pm 272-8401 :76 FORD:'43'K'MiLES':'NEW'EX'H:A:UST, TIRES $500 OR BEST. 284-5159 TICKETS I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­TION. WILL PAY. CALL3257 ASK FOR BRIAN HELPII I need 2 grad. 1ix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233·4176 .................... OUR FAMILIES ARE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO, SO WE NEED 10 GRADUATION TIX. WILL PAY ANY PRICE. CALL 277-7261! I NEED 1 GRAD TIC $DAN 234-5346 NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL JOSE 3348. ................................................................ NEED GRAD TIX $$$$ 288-8730 $$$ For Sale: South Bend to LaGuardia round trip airline ti•. Leave South Bend friday May 6, 2:15 PM. Cheapll $100. 272­0579. GRAD. TIX needed --COLIN x4656 WE FLUNKED OUTIII Have 8 grad tix PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ................................................................ YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre DamM>t.Mary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. endad Students: Sell your unwanted class books tor $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day..Week 233-2342 A'TIENTiON·····aa····GR'AC>UA'TEs·····1·~t Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or JeH Corey at 236-2200 ........................................... B;rt;;;~ lmpons BMWMAZD.WW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th ................................................. ;·L.;;;;·;; who bought the myth... "; I thought that would gel your aHention. Happy birthday to the man, the MYTH, the legend; JOHN Dl DIEGO ::sE.NiOFis;··aoiNCl''TO. A'"NEw·crrv·? CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER N.D. GRADS GOING TO THE SAME CITY. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW." Have A Coke And A Smile ................................................................ OH, MY GOD, THEY'RE BACK II the Lab/an Miners are coming!!! "HIRING1 Government Jobs -your a111a.  HEY BUD! Congratulations II You made itll Way to go, pel. Just a lew more finals and you're home treel Wish I didn't have to go through nall again. (esp. wb you) But hey, I'll 0 just hop in a car & drive the 8 hrs. anytime I feel like it, right? And anyway we have 3 11.! weeks ot hell(?) to look forward to first. Here's to itl Con· grats again and good luck with lite. I sure am proud ot you I Love always, your Ia· vorite simpleton and amateur biker who you beHer not forget as you move on to the bigger and beHer. MARTY WATTS FOR THE NBA DRAFT II MARTY WATTS FOR THE NBA DRAFT II PLACE YOUR BETS NOW ON WHAT ROUND HE'LL GO IN ...... II ;;'B:.:.:EiY''WiiN-TE·o:·c;I.RtNG. cATHOLic COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION. CON­FIDENTIAL, LEGAL, All EXPENSES PAID. HELP US HELP YOU. CALL KATHY COLLECT AFTER 6PM 312­482-7898 ................................................................ HELPIMY WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FROM GUATEMALA FOR COM­MENCEMENT AND NEED 2 EXTRA TICKETSIIIPLEASE CALL ANITA AT 1365.WILL PAY $$$11 .................................. Mv.sis.NEEos RIDE FROM MADISON or MILW., WI AREA TO NO FOR MY GRADUATION SHE CAN LEAVE AF· TERNOON OF MAY 14, PLEASE CALL MIKE 1833 ................................................................ SCOTT THOMPSON SCOTT THOMPSON SCOTT THOMPSON SCOTT THOMPSON tuma 23 on Saturday, ao wish him a HAPPY BIRTHDAY Neiio"Fiiii'E..:ra..svA·Ac-usii:i:r;;AcA AREA-CAN LEAVE AFTER 4pm FRI AlYSSA-3736 SI!NIORS: EMPLOYERS ARE STILL LOOKING FOR YOUI IF YOU ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THEM, DROP OFF ONE MORE COPY OF YOUR PROFILE FORM AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. WE WILL KEEP IT ON HAND AND SEND COPIES TO EMPLOYERS AS YOU MATCH THEIR REQUIREMENTS. SI!NIORS: EMPLOYERS ARE STILL LOOKING FOR YOUI IF YOU ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THI!M, DROP OFF ONE MORE COPY OF YOUR PROFILE FORM AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. WE WILL KEEP IT ON HAND AND SEND COPIES TO EMPLOYERS AS YOU MATCH THEIR REQUIREMENTS. SI!NIORSr EMPLOYERS ARE STILL LOOKING FOR YOUI IF YOU ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THI!M, DROP OFF ONE MORE COPY OF YOUR PROFILE FORM AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. WE WILL KEEP IT ON HAND AND SEND COPIES TO EMPLOYERS AS YOU MATCH THEIR REQUIREMENTS. :r~·ih~·-g·~·;,g·~j·n;~·-Ob~~~;;·:·i(~~~~-i·. Mark P., JR and CB (the fearless news editors), Mike N., Chris M.. Chris D., Reegomania, Kendra, Cathy S., Anne­Marie D.. the Julkalizer, Laura S., Mark M., Shirley, Tim O'K., Greg (I hate student senate) L., Dennis C., Many S., Jo Ann W. and a cast ot hundreds ... thanks tor making this year a great year. Good luck in all your futures. I'll really miss people who've been friends and lellow Obser­verltes tor tour years. Watch tor my by;ine in the Chicago Tribune in a lew years . Eric M. "Bob Woodward" Bergamo Alright, alright. . To Nancy, Debbie, Diane, Diane, Andrea. and Colleen ot EDUC 201 F at noon : He111 Ia your paroonall AHen­dance sheets just won't be the same.  I DID NOT SEE YOUR SWEET BUNS AT BRIDGET'S LAST NIGHT. I WANT YOUIII WHEN IS YOUR NEXT PARTY? THIS WEEKEND? I'Ll BE THERE. LOVE, MUFFY P.S. MY ROOMIE WANTS Me. I sri// think It should have been the Flying Purple Penatrotorl Bri-rHave a TERRIFIC 20th ... Dinner is on me tonite even though it's not MY tuml You can make it up to me through sax lessons, though. Okay? Then it'll be MY tum to say "Thanks!" I LOVE YOUIII -Er Happy 19th Anne O'Leary We love yal AM and HAT CATHY S. Please, please, stay at ND. You'll be glad you did. -Your Keebler ell B. Is this just aHraction? Definitely not, but It sure does help . As we count down the .days, sleep be­comes a very low priority . Thus tar, it's been so much tun Ill Thankal E. Hey Dude I This was the last chance. You didn't think I'd forget did you? E. ;;iiciiei:i:E··e-··aoi:a;··:i~;;·~~~i;;;;··;~ say THANKS tor everything you've done tor me. You're the beslest soster in the world! II HAPPY GRADUATION! Love al­ways LiHie Bolg It's a little earty, but. . .........H.~PP'~"Eiirt;;;i~~-oi~~".;' Tracyl ................................................ ........H·~·PPY Binhday Diane Tracylll ..................... ... HAP.Pv"siRTHDAY DIANE TRACY! ..ii"AP';;v"iiifi:rtiii:.:.:v··iii:.:.:t.i'E rfilicvit. Thanks tor being an awesome room­mate, Di (except tor that music) KATHRYN Lumpy is LAME r~~k·&·:r~~~:·n;·~·~·~..;~;·y-o-uA'·;;~rt~~~~ Rider & Wad r;;~·:rav·;~·b~;~~·;;;;;·;j;·~~·;·;~·i:~j;~·s.·) but il will live on and continue to abuse chicks. Thanx Trlllol PADRE BOYZ REMEMBER? The toy The jiz sheet Trillo's 30 1t bong Tequila bong & Crazy's power yak When Duke (Mark) drank Greased Lightning Hap shaking lace Goose would rather talk than rally T aquila & Fruity Pebbles Oooah haa ya doon? Pi phis & Tri deHs TO's just a BJ The troll & the link (Rider & Wad) Whataburger 4 timelrtlay The sunken toy Wad's pile driver on Hap Penn & Rider's mission at 4am You will drink & you will like itl Roland & Kappa Kim N~~~··c;··;·~;;~··;;~~rt-·ii··;~--~i;;;~~i ..~;~;_ Good luck on MCAT'slommorrowll know  that "RMI WorldI" ·ICetle uiCe,_r" Hey lll' Bro. It's good lo know I'm numbar one (or at least near the top) ot the parallel list. You're number one on a lot ot my lists --mainly the triendahlp one --but not on the AIM list. Maybe that's improving these days. I'll send you a postcard when I'm satoslied and you can do the same when you're on target. Nice Lltel Big Sis Steven Michael Mauk, Sirl Thanks tor the movie and the picnic. Come back and visit next yearl Holmes Dungaon Rats, I will miss you. You've got a place to stay next year so I expect lots ot com· pany. Stein Have s nice 1/le Tim ..............................................................., BETH "HANDS ARE VERY NICE THINGS, ESPECIALLY AFTER THEY ttJl.VE TRAVELLED BACK FROM A "!'RIAL OF TIME AND DISTANCE"--1 SINCERELY LOVE YOU, NOW AND FOREVER. P.S. THPPPTTTII MATT YOU FINALLY MADE ITt SHI HEAD REALLY IS A TERM OF EN­DEARMENT WELL,(SAID LIKE RON) I'Ll SEE VA IN AUG. AND, OH, THANKS FOR THE WARN­ING I ................................................................ MOM & K.C. "GANG BANG IS GOOD FOR YOU .. ." CAN'T WAIT UNTIL1·SlY IS BACK TOGETHER AGAIN MISS YOU GUYS-SPACEY & DEED WOMAN KAREN ONLY 4 MORE MONTHS THAN I CAN BORROW YOUR CLOTHES. CAN'T WAIT FOR YOU TO BE BACK DEE DEE CANDY 32 MORE DAYS 768 MORE HOURS 2.8E6 MORE SECONDS AND I'll BE THEREI IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY WITH LITTLE GERMAN MEN THAT HANG UP ON ME. CAN'T WAIT TO SEE YOU. TRACY HEIDI HO MOIIIIIIII Farley 4A Ia loving youII Juat welt, It'll beg-11111 MSneddon As It by destiny The place remained. And the time that was g81ned Is lrreplacable. Duane DIFranco, Mike Archibeck, and Joe Wllde--MCATS are going logo gf8al. God bless. I love ya'll. NT Anne O'Leary Have a happy btnhday Sunday, and a great summerl Tony Mary and the girts ot 722 PE, Best wishes tor a great summer. I'll miss you all. Tony w~~~..~~i··,;~~i~? ..R~~;~t;~.. &·~~ Jude. Thank you Saint Judel RGP VIEJO, Thanks so much tor making this year the best. That special person you are means so much to me. Who ever thought I'd become infatuated with a small town boy? I'll miss you,MLJO. I LOVE YOU. ·-VIEJA P.S. Tonight Is only a lew hours awayl HOLLIANNE LOGAN Thanks tor the loanl What could heve been a painfully dull semester was transformed into 4 very social months. I'm forever In your debt. Best ot luck at Leo Burnett. -Elizabeth Anne  ....  
THANKSII JIM 4085 lost: one btu~ nd nspsack ;;.;,1;; ~~ ~;~~~; longerpnnts containing my id, dete•. dnver's hsence, keys, and clothes. most treasured 1s the picture ot my grandparents. please return asap. call lisa •4455 FOUND: One black London Fog umbrel­la. Found In Room 205 Cushing on Wed­nesday, Aprol27 at 3:15pm. It this baby's yours, gove Sean a call at 1153. It not, I'm keepong n. FOR RENT NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCH<XJL YEAR 6838889 &-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR g MO LEASE FOR FALL.272~306 pj~~·j;;·;;;u::i·i:~;~;--r;·;;;;;;;;;;;;;;..;;.;-~·~; near campus. Furnoshed or unfurnished. Also available for summer. Call272· 7258 Lookong tor ONE ROOMATE to lake over own furnished room In a Tunle Creek Townhouse tor the aummerl Call Tim at 1644 lor details.  Refrigerator tor $50 -like new call ColeHe at 287-07 42 1981 Otda Wagon 89000 mllea Excel· lent Condition New tires, brakes, car­borator. $2200 27HJ785 76' ELDORADO 69000 MLS NO RUST NO DENTS NEW EXHAUST $900 AL­PINE SYSTEM $3200 CALL ED AT 232 1198 AFTER 6 PM AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ANIMALS FOR SALE 50"/o OF RETAll PRICE II 232­1198 Smith-Corona XD6500 Mem.Writer;W'!lpellwri1e,x1r.printwheel,low mileage $300;684-0538. t978 4-Door VW Rabbit 92,000 miles. Good Cond. $950. Call 288-6154. AN TOSTAL T-SHIRT LIQUIDATION $5 X1951 1987 Buick Grand National, Mint condi· tion, need cash: $4,000 or best offer. Call John 271-0765  $15,000-$68,000. Call (802) 838-8685. Ext. 8282. CHIMES 88 CHIMES 88 CHIMES 88 CHIMES 88 is coming May 2 ......................................... SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER 25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP COURSES. NOW THRU &-15-88 FOR SOUTH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA • SAVE SSS'SIII CALL272-4135 FOR IN· FO. ................................................................ Ride needed to Binghampton, Syracuse area Fri. evening, May 6, or Sat. Just me and one very small suitcase. Will share e•penses. Call Erin at x2732. .................................. jUNIORS, JUNiORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SEMESTER. :iu.NioR"S:.:iuNioR"s:·:iuN.Ioris;..;:iiriN IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SEMESTER. THANK YOU SAINT JUDEI  M.J. GRANT HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAYIII I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY. ITS BEEN A GREAT YEAR WITH YOU (U ot M, THE CHIPPED TOOTH, "BEAUTIFUL EYES", THE AN­NUAL MULDOON'S TRIPS, etc.) HOLD TIGHT UNTIL SATURDAY NIGHT. MAYBE I'LL EVEN BUY YOU A BEER. LOVE KATHY Dear John McOaker, We a111 ao aorry to hMr about your lather'a woraanlng condition. Feel lree to aklp your exema. You can make them up any time, aa fer ao we're con­cerned. Juat have your buddy Monk atralghten tt out wtth ua. Sincerely, Your tMchera -ro·e-vEFivaN·E--i.i<'Now·8ooii..t:uci< ON FINALS AND ENJOY YOUR SUM­MEAl diane yu I've had to live with ~ I've had to hear about it Good Luck on the CPA Brian John (I Care, sure)  you'll do great! sliZ:.:.:NN·:e:·;;;;~;;~·a;;·~·;;i~~:·wA':rE'Rs 1s A FIELD HOCKEY WONDERIII Congrats on the leHer, pal. Love, Wags To all the cool dudes (Deadheads, Green Egg chefs, Barbara B's) ot ALUMNI -Thanks tor all the tun, Happy Summer. Love, WAGS ................................................ Brad,Mike,Chris,Brendan,Paui,Eric,John,l "Y'all" have been such special friends to me over the pest lew years. Thanks tor all the GREAT limes! I am going to miss you so much next year! CONGRATULA­TIONS and GOOD LUCKIIII Love Al­ways, Karen ................................................................. CHRIS SULUVAN & MARK BUDDE CHEER UP LOOSERSIII ·THE RACQUETBALL GODDESSES i.tii"F;;;;:&n:siiv::.:.:N'i:i········aoR.aeoiis· TOP 6 LIST 6 CALL ME GORGEOUS! G 5 SNORTI A,M,G 4 ME, IN THE BATHROOM WITH 5 GUYS? M 3 WOOO,WOOOI A 2 THAT'S WHY THEY CALL IT 'SEX ON THE BEACH'! M 1 SHE MADE ME DRINK IT,ROG. G REVENGE I DISH  KERSTIN WHITE IS 21111 Thanka for ell tha mamortea ... have 1 GREATtlrne tonight but PLEASE SUR· VIVE and don't meka me go It alone next yNrlll Your partner In crtme ................................................................ MIKE PAESE We're having a party with our 21.2 L.L S.A.M. How about a little tennis? -or maybe one ot those other three sports? .................... s~~:· ..H;;;;u;;,r, and Meg---Thanks tor everything this year--YOU ARE THE GREATEST---I can't omagine not living in "the quad"--1 love and will miss you all very much this summer---J .............................. Regia--Thanks tor the ad--you're the best--it made my day--JH iiow....Hiifio--·c-;;·N....voli...FiO:Ci<?? EVERYONE IS WONDERING uti wii:i:""'vou.....Fi.oci<···..Me·····j:jiifiii'?? HARDROCK???? i:ie.Ne···;;ou'A'i:iE·;;·aoo:·;u::·c;F·t.iu;;: FY'S FRIENDS WANT YOU. THEY CAN MAKE YOU FEEL SOOOO GOOD. SEE YOU AT BRIDGET'SIII see CLASS, page 23  

~-­
1 
1

:I .pa~ge~~~------------~~~~~~Th~e~O~~~N~er~----~--------------F~--·~~~~·~-~

...............................................! 
i

THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! 
Student :• Appreciation :
•

i Sale 
I I ~­
I :: 10°/o Off Your Purchases* 

April 29, 1988 
i 

I I 
Just Show Your I.D. Card 
I. I 


Ir--------~--------~--------,
BICYCL~ BONUS I TOUGH ON~ I TRUNK BONUS I
i 

I I COOL~R BONUS I .. I :• 
I Register to. Win a 1 Register to Win I Register to Win 1I 10 Speed Bicycle 1 a Cooler I a Decorator Trunk 1 :I I 14*14*19 I 1s•16•2a I 
1. Name IName I!lame I : 
1Address 1Address . I Address I 
Phone I Phone I Phone I 
TOSHIBA ·
F--------1--------+--------1
I 
RADIO/TAPr; I WAGON BONUS ISTUDENT DRAWINGI . lreCORDf;R I I TABLE BONUS I BONUS II II Register to w,·n II
I De·nister to ..,,.... Register to Win 
n~ "~· I a~~~I an FM Stereo Radio a I I I Cassette Recorder I Radio Flyer Wagon I I 
IName I Name 1Name_ I I 
I 
IAddress 1Address 1Address 1 I 1Phone 1Phone IPhone 1 I "' 
1---------~--------L--------J 

: 
• 

•
THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! : 
: HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE i 
. : 
t ..............................................J 
--------------------------------------------------~--------~-----------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 29, 1988 
Sports Briefs 
Dan Garrett requalified for the NCAA championships at the Penq relays Thursday night. The senior captain of the Notre Dame track team placed third in the 5000-meter run. Mike O'Connor missed qualifying by placing eighth with a time of 14:02. Ron Markezich withdrew from the 10,000-meter run because of a foot injury. -The Observer 
The ND hockey team has signed six high school players to letters of intent. Left wing Lou Zadra (Stoughton, Mass.), right wing Mark McClew (Toronto, Ontario), center Pat Arendt (Rochester, Minn.), center Mike Curry (Rochester, Minn.), center David Bankoske (Buffalo, N.Y.) and Kevin Patrick (Schenectady, N.Y.) represent the first signees to Notre Dame hockey scholarships in five years. The Observer 
Aerobics and stretchercise sessions will be held during finals week. Aerobics will be held at 4:30 p.m. at Gym 2 of the Joyce ACC from Monday, May 2 to Thursday, May 5. Stretchercise will be held at 5:30p.m. in Gym 2 of the JACC on Tuesday, May 3 and Thursday, May 5. -The Observer 
Women's varsity soccer will hold a brief but mandatory meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Pasquerila West basement for all those intersted in playing on the team next year. Any questions should be directed to Susan. at x4541. Sweatshirts also will be distributed at the meetmg to team members. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby club will have its final match of the year Saturday afternoon against Eastern Illinois. The game will begin at 1 p.m. behind Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball referees should stop by Mike Manning's room (106 Keenan) today between 3 and 5 p.m. to pick uo their checks. Please brine: the referee jerseys at that time. Call Mike at x3073 if there are any problems.-The 
Observer 
The Observer page 23 
and rarely makes a mistake. some personal goals and have He's not a real flashy player tried to push myself to the
Seniors 

but he always gets the job limit. That has meant sacrific­
continued from page 32 

done," O'Leary said. "Doug ing some personal things in or­
Those seniors are led by this has tremendous athletic ability der to help out some of the other year's three middie tri­and has helped us with his abil­guys." captains (Art Brady, Tom lity to bring the ball upfield. Tri-captain McNicholas ac­Lanahan, and McNicholas) And Kevin is probably our best knowledged McQuillan's im­and goalie Matt McQuillan. overall defenseman and has portance to the team this year. 
McQuillan, whose save done a great job covering the "He's definitely a very gutsy percentage ranks among the other teams best player all goalie and has provided superb top ten in the nation, directs a year." leadership. Everyone respects Notre Dame defense that this Nonetheless, most of the him and knows what a compet­season has held the opposition players agreed that McQuillan itor he is," McNicholas said. to less than eight goals a game. is the main force behind the The players said that a vic­The Irish defense has also kept Irish defense this year. The tory against Ohio State is very the opposition at bayon man-up senior goalie had 18 and 22 important to the seven seniors, situations slightly more than 75 saves in the last two Irish who include McQuillan, the tri­percent of the time this year. games and is averaging 13 captains, McDonald, middie 
"Coming into the season, we stops per game. His goals John Burtis and attack Jeff were very uncertain about how against average, meanwhile, is Shay. the defense would play because impressively under seven per "We want nothing more than we lost all of the starting game. to win this last game because defense from last year and had "Having Matty in the goal is guys from last year still tell us to do some rebuilding," great for our defense because how that loss to Michigan State McQuillan said. we know he'll come up with the last year left a bitter taste in 
"The stat's show we've done outstanding saves and that just their mouth," McDonald said. a good job this year and some­makes our job that much While McQuillan and .• times we've played well above easier," McDonald said. "He's McDonald led the defense this our potential. I can't comple­also done great on clears and year, the tri-captains played a ment the defense any more." is really like a quarterback out major role in the Irish transi­
The starting defensemen, there for us." tion game. Brady has won over senior Randy McDonald and McQuillan started his fresh­60 percent of his faceoff at­juniors Kevin O'Connor and man year and is second on the tempts while McNicholas and Doug Spencer, played together Irish all-time saves list with Lanahan are third and fourth on the 'defensive middie' line 438. Despite his success as an on the Irish scoring list this last year but had little experi­underclassman, McQuillan year. ence at close defense entering said his performance this Burtis started the first six this season. Nonetheless, season was of great impor­games of the season at a time O'Leary said that each of the tance to him. when the Irish set the tone for starting defensemen has "I've been pretty pleased the rest of the season. Shay, played within his own capaci­with how I've played. I knew it meanwhile starter for eight ties. was my last year so I went all­games but has been out since 
''Randy has been very steady out," McQuillan said. "I set then with a knee injury. 
n.a.--Non o.me offtce, "-ledon the thln:l floor of L.afoftune Stu­dmt Center, MlCIPb claaiftecl edweltl.tng from 10 Lift. until 4 p.m., Monday lhRiugll Ffldar. The a.-..Selnt ~otftce, looaa.d on the third floor of ..._.,Collge c.nt• . .cc.pta claalfieda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday tfm)ugtl Ffldar. Oeedllne for nut.-y clualfteclala 3 p.m. All cluelftecla muat
Classifieds be ~. either In pen10n or by !Mil. T1MI c:Nrge Ia to centa par 1M ~...day. 
Congratulations to John Parker and Anne Happy Pat Bradley, Top ten altuatfona and peopla of '88, CONGRATULATIONS, DEBBIE TOP 5 QUOTES Ferry on their engagement. Good luck, You are a BW. Why are you 80 afraid of from the only peopla on campua who · WHAT A GREAT JOB YOU'VE DONE. FROM THE BUTTCHEESEand name It after me. 
the toy? Childhood memories? Bobbi, no count. 10. Spit and the paulon Nd

Class 
WHAT A WONDERFUL DAUOKTER TO THE SCRUMPER: doubt It's been a V8fY amusing and fun ruler. YOU ARE. 5. "Get me drunk & I'lldo justabout anyth­Notre Dame four years. Wed & Alder 11. Did anyone ob-• man leaving LOOKING FORWARD TO A GREAT Ing."
continued from page 21 
Business • cert.ln •nonymoue women'• SUMMER. 4. "What are you trying to tell me, that 
Students dorm without hla ul'lderwellr? (plaid LOVE, MAMA D. I DAD I'm better than sleeping? Well Scott It clependa, do you think doH wHh Angela Ammon. boxera, they _..) 8. Nine atoraa and 3. "Drunkard? I'm leaving I" 2. "There's a they'd give ua two VCR'a or jult one? INTEREST When MCATs are over you will end your not • Playgirl In • ona of 'em. 2· 7 at the Archttect Building.' 
-Jenn call 2335 to get The business shirt lameness and party wHh us. Your 7. The forum HCIIon (when -finally To our STUDS & HUGE, You've made 1. "Hey, are you one of those boya that Cempus View Roomies dklflnd one). this year the bestiThanks Manl Here's a doesn't like ... r TO THE WIEAOOO who stole my swim­8. Speedy, Ivan, and the Rocke god­lew from our HUGE list of quotes: 1. suit from the Rock on Wed April 27 be­who would all do the lwnala 
lookln' Good 2. Silence yourself! 3. SURPRISE, THIS ISN'T REALLY APRIL tween 9:40-IO:OOPM: you never know GNg: Thankllor all the love and all the 
James Cotton?Are you In there James? TO THE BEST AT SMONO 'SPECIAUY 11x • favor by taking • long walk oil
28, IT'S FEBRUARY 851111 what diseases you can get 1rom a suit If mernoriea·MN,Boyne,londue, AMV,KRIS,MISSY,SANOYDENNIS,ROSE,
4. Sears Tower? Yeah, It's that building • ahort plar. 5. Fan-taak·tlc atorlll
you haven1 used It yet and are woman movies,wh~e ro8811 and champagne. • MARTHA,SHERRI,VICK,CCH,HOBBS&3N.
right there behind the Federal Express4. Tripping over the rail behind
enough, why don1 you return It to the Chrla FOR THE MEMORIES. THIS OKIE WIU
truck. 5. They may be big, but we're
Brldg.t'• In • mlnlaklrt In haiti

SCOTT IIEARIIY·I aaw you Saturday losl-lound at the Rock? From a P.O. HUGEl 6. You're impressed with mel 7. MISS YA'UISAVE ME A COOL ONE skinny dipper. LAURIE: Be good thla summeriNo 
to gat to the Gram American Hot Dog

night at Senior Bar and almost couldn't I shot my wile ... 8. Mary, Mary you're on NEXT YEAR !YOU'RE THE BEST LOVE-
Stand. 3. Richard

hold myaell back--would you Uke to ,_t mushy stuff wtrBKI Hugs,Roomle 1 my mlndl 9. They called us GEEKS and BARBIE
2. Another ona 111111 the duatl 

me at Duck lalllrld on Saturday, aay CLUB DANKISIII DORKSI 10. CHICAGO IN THE RAIN ..-ound 7? I'll be walling ... CLUB DANKISIII GEORGIA: Happy Birthday Babel Love 
1. The drinking marathon (flv. daya of 

until next year ... -your secret admirer CLUII OANKISIII ya' Chris WE LOVE YOU, SheH C: (My pel from Cel) WE MADE ITI
alcoholic blur) and enaulng ································································ 
IICUrlty guard chall(a). A final

The legend IIVII on. Thenkl for being a special friend II LOVE
N&S
thought: men .,. pond ac:um (oHdlcatad to tholl of Ul who

Holy Saint Jude apostle and martyr,great YOU 088 ya at homel Karen 
Well Scott, I gueaa this II the end of the THE SKID ROW RAP.. In vlrtue,rlch In miracles,kinamen In Now, SKID ROW -It's a jammln place Christ,lnterceaor of all those who invoke h-auf111rad at their handa).
PMaOnala War (aeelng u there will be Joanne, The table's on fire -does anyone no more Peraonela this yeer). H'a been It may be strange your aid In time ol need.l pray to you to care? love, TOP GLEE CLUB QUOTES OF 1986: 1.
Schnookuma, The last Observer, last

lun--nno hard feel1nga? But Hain't no disgrace use your God given power to aid in my Stacy "Sooot, were you a REAL Glee Club Pres­
Frlday,lastweekolcl88888 at NO forever 

-you know who We've got Pat Timon ·not a pretty lace urgent petitlon.3 Hall Marys3 Glorlas Ident In another Iller 2. "Are you a
and you gat a last peraonal. Minnesota

He went for UMOC heinoul bush pig?" 3. "I know a guy REASON FOR ZETO REUNION BRIAN 
here we comet Veal Oec.30. I LOVE

And grabbed the eighth place J&B Life In hell was hotl Alwaye remem­whoee name Is Oemis, he's ao horny he 
YOUI Pooker bear 

CRAZY JANE WE'LL MISS YOU AND Uam Canny geta pummelled to the ftoor BROHMAN'S UNCONDITIONAL LOVE ber to get the fries whenever you need o# '% kangaroo..." Best of luck to Claaa YOUR He aays to atop caffeine. L&S of '88 clubbero. You're all wonderful. ALL NIGHTERS NEXT SEMESTER But just gets more LET'S SEE. MARY'S BIRTHDAY IS ON Love,
Karen,Jim,Fish,Mark,Pat,Ted,Kurt,John

LOVE YA-K,T,IB SATURDAY, BUT WE HAVE TO LEAVE Laune Lesniewski
Infamy was a t>ast ail well as a boom TRISH, GINA, MARY C., KATHY,
O.,Mary Thereaa,Oonna,TIME FOR THE SHOWER, SO WE'LL

And things were popping up LAURA, I MARY D. Thanka lor making
Nancy,Matt,Chrls,Luke,Pat,Jim and allPUT IT IN ON THURS. BUT THArS

In Bill Lambert's room this year the greatest. I'll never forget the
our other friend& of the last lour years.

NANOOK: HAVE A VERY FUN SUM­Things are rockln' lor you and me REAUY FRI. NOW, WHO'D I HAVE great times we've had together. I know Meg of Lamb, We're 80 aony for trying LUNCH WITH? AAIIIIHH HAPPY 
Thenkl. Good Luck. We love youl A &

MER BUT NOT TOO MUCH FUN, IF As Michael Colley we'H all be lrlends forever. I love you aftlll to fry you ... at least we dldn1 bum the
JR

BIRTHOAYI LOVE. LCD toaa not Included). Your 'What-Knot' pub 
YOU KNOW WHArS GOOD FOR YOU. Gets a bit hot'Me Natacha pizza bread. Cere for a carry out? (Meg 
SKID ROW·ft'a the place to be
Happy 19th Birthday, Margo. JOHNNYO

Cindy and Sue

Now this rap Ia done pel&I 
Love, Kim Good Luck on the MCATI
It's been great. Don't get bummed out

But then 80 are we JC. Good Luck on your MCAT.
-Timmy, MF, & Marlsaa

because we're not here next year. At CLUB 23
Kitty, Julie & I will be 3 guys looking lor a 4th roommate to thinking ol you thll Sal. FRIDAY NIGHT
least you have a chance to go undelealed WATCH OUT FOR BACK ALLEYS OF next year, even II we won't be here to
share a Campus View Apt. next year. Love your little sla, Joy LIVE I BARS. YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT WtU buy an after game beverage! 
Good Luck Sat. Angl You'H do great I Just 

$21Gtnonth. Call John at 28HI654. No ACOUSTIC I 
think 6:00 (5:30?)1 -c, M. T

HAPPEN. BE CAREFUL IN CUBA-­Your Bros, J and B
study geekl or acid-heads please. IICHESHIREII WATCH OUT FOR THE RIOTS.. 
Thenkl St. Jude 

..SMILEI K John, 1. Good luck on finals; 2. Thank
AMY H. THANK YOU FOR EVERY· 
you for a great semester; 3. I can't walt

NANOOK: I WIU THINK OF YOU OF· THING THAT WEVE SHARED. GOOD Wow, I'm starting to see the light DR'S BIZ, ARCHIE, DUANE I JOE Hey ERINijOidflsh are really tastey-the TEN. KEEP IN TOUCHI I lOVE YOUI K unnl Senior Week/L-·,
LUCK ON FINALS AND FINISH GOOD LUCK ON MCArSII WE LOVE craclcerel CAREY, ELIZABETH, and 
Me 

TRIONA·Ride thole matre-1 JIU­TO 3 WONDERFUl ROOMMATES: Tab 
STRONG. ENJOY THIS SUMMER AND YOU GUYSI THE PARTYBABES 
Suck him for all he's wor1hl VERN·I'm TRACY, HELEN, AND GINA-THANKS HAVE. ESPECIALLY "THE ROSE." Good thing that toenail polish was on and holding your blankeiiOf r&MOml JULES. 
ALWAYS REMEMBER WHAT WE GENO THANKS FOR HELPING MAKEFOR A FUN-FILLED YEAR. lOVE YOU 
LOVE, KEVIN that one of us had a haircut Glad to be MY FIRST YEAR AT SMC SO SPECIAL I Does your jaw still hurt? CHRISTINA-Hia 
GUYS, KRISTIN beck. ICatftr, .....,, .,.,..,., Good luck on 
I LOVE YOU, MAZIE name Ia ELIOTt And to the real of my F-1 LOVE YOlJ.B buds In PE· What a yeer-one down, two
finals to the bestest roomies ever/ Mullet McGraw 
Allante, that was pretty shaDow (above), To the beat roomies & my beat lrienda, to gol I love you aMI Kim
but we were deep when we needed to MARGE C. ·-Wanted you to know how KAR, P.SUE, & CARLIN; For one year, 
for 

be. Get that hair washed 80 we can watch wonderful a young lady you are, and how we lived together, laughed together, clied JIM WELSH,
MIM America 111111 CARMINA 
the Brady Bunch tonlghtl We'll miss you next semester when

lucky (and prMieged) I am to know you. together, grew together, and loved to­THANK YOU FOR MAKINO THIS YEAR 
Prealdent, Mullet Babies, Inc. you're In Londonl When you come back
You make me very happy, and I like you. gether. Hwe haven't covered the bases VERY SPECIAL 
be sure to wear your hair down 80 we 

I LOVE YOU. Muller was robbed. We demand a can recognize you. We'll wear our con­
A lot. PUOGE, A Not-So-Secret-Admirer. and still remained lr1ends·then I don't
CaUiornla Here We Corne know what true lriends are. Thanx lor the JO
recount. tacls. Love,JJ,PJ,BJ,TJ,MJ,YJ
JULIE M. EO"BOOM BOOM"V. MARY memorlesl I'D never forget you guye.
Mullet lor Moola KraUIII Award. Ringo, better call a truce belore we get
B. SUE AND ANNETTE Thenkl lor an Good luck. I'U miss you, I love you I Here'a LL. COOL BIZ. You are the biology
Muftet Mania, SOME PEOPLE ONLY READ THE
aweaome year. I'll mlea you aH thts to Fun, Friendship, and the Future I Ciao I queen, Legend In leather. Good luck on
bombed again. By the way I came

Cetch HI SHORT PERSONALS 
oumrner·l can1 walt till Akron&Cedar mi. your MCAra. And don1 wear pleather.
through the other night, tum on the reapeclometer.

Pt.Oont forget to write. Good luck on Love, Mol 
SOME PEOPLE ONLY READ THEfinal& LOVE. YOUR CARMEX QUEEN 

LONG PERSONALS 

!~pee~-' ll111r*1 to all who made deliver­CeMn, WaH, this has certainly been an H'a your t>rthday Ing the Obaerver euler... Especially: To the MEN of 418 Walsh: BUT CHRIS SIMMS NEVER READS ·Interesting-year. Despite our lncom­Hey Physics Chicks, 
................................................................ 
Anxious to 088 you because you'l~ Thla Is your last peraonal lor at leaat a
That meana H II time for you to atop Gay, Brother Courtney, Mary Carmola, THE PERSONALS I'LL MISS YOU petit>llty, you have been a great friend. 
5) Halp the "Dip 11' peck year. What wiN you do without me? Better 
being a -nle, grab a lhol glua, and Debbie Wonlach, the gala at Galvin, all NEXT YEAR-GOOD LUCK. LOVE, Thenx for aome great memorleell'ft mill 
4) Infect ua w"N.D. wanna-b&Morrls lm" yet, what wiU I do without you?I?II'H really 
have yourl8ff a good time. the glr1o at St. Marya (who made Htun). SPIKER, BElli, BUB OR JUST LIZ. you alotl Hobbes. P.S. BELLAI You're only 21 OIICI... 
Fever mill you both. You'd both better wntelAnna Mae JIIOObe, Amy Tremel. The 
3) Bargain w' the Dudes Take care ol your men.
doonnan .. Morna Inn, Our fast and HAPPY BIRTHOAY SAMMYI You are my Happy Birthday to you, lrlendly poatal workera, and moat lmpor· 2) Take us off-campus besteat friend and I hope you have the Hey Pete Schwabe, Love Joe 
Happy Birthday to you, 1) Always be LOVED! bestest day. UNE NINE Here's your control code ................................................................
tantly, Shirley Grauel. H'a been great to Happy Birthday dear Herbie, ·still Brain-dead, LOVE
l8rV8 you. Jim lind Kevin 
p

happy Birthday to you. Maura & Kimberly BABY Rolli,
·The Obeerver Guye I love your br11C811. 
Friday, April 29, 1988
page 24 The Observer 
Knight claims remarks were misinterpreted 
Associated Press 
Indiana University basket­ball coach Bob Knight said Thursday his remarks about rape and stress on a national television show were misin­terpreted and that his critics have overlooked his contribu­tions to social causes. 
"Anybody who knows me would be quick to say I would be one of the last people to adopt a careless attitude about rape as criminal assault, or toward any form of crime," Knight said in an interview with The Bloomington Herald­Telephone. 
"I have been rather surprised when going through my mail that of all of the people I have seen quoted on this issue none has taken the time to drop me a note on recent things that I have done and have aired on child abuse, drug and alcohol abuse, the library, disabled children and adults, adult literacy, Special Olympics, Big Brothers and Big Sisters, mus­cular dystrophy, the hemop­hilia society. . . " 
The criticism stemmed from a statement he made when asked by NBC interviewer Connie Chung how he handled stress. 
"I think that if rape is inevi­table, relax and enjoy it," Knight told Chung in an inter­view broadcast Monday night. "That's an old term that down, so you have no control over it. I'm not alking about the act of rape. Don't misinterpret me. But what I'm talking about is something happens to you, so you have to handle it--now." 
University President Thomas Ehrlich said Tuesday that he deplored Knight's ref­erence to rape in the interview with Chung, and said the coach was not speaking for the uni­versity during that interview. 
Knight did not return tele­phone calls to his office on Thursday. But in his interview with the newspaper the coach said he had been misun­derstood. 
"The word rape can be used in several ways," he said. "One 
're to use. The is in that has 
The Observer I File Photo 

As he has done often In the past, Indiana coach troverslal remarks on NBC earlier this week. Bob Knight Is left on the defensive after his con-
Knight 
continued from page 32 
innocent things Bob Knight might be accused of. 
Just ask his players about some of the things he says in practice. 
Granted, NBC is a long way from the Assembly Hall bas­ketball floor. Knight knows by now how the press can make issues out of things that are not issues. In short, he should not have made the comparison. 
But Bob Knight is Bob Knight. He has a history of not thinking twice about saying the first thing that pops into his mind. You never know what he's going to say or do in a post­game press conference. Mter one game, Knight walked into the conference room, told a story about fishing and walked out. No questions, no answers. Nothing about the game at all. 
It is amazing how anyone, es­pecially members of the media who have been around Knight, can accuse him of making a statement about rape. But they did, even though he was obvi­ously not trying to say that rape 

This week at the Snite: Friday, Apri129, 7:00 & 9:30pm 
MAURICE 
~ 
James Ivory (A Room with a View) 
/;; adapts another novel by E.M. Forster. 
// A beautifully filmed, provocative 
/ 
romance about the sexual awakening of a young man tom between his own longings and the confines of Edwardian England. 

With the 1upport of the lodlaoa Artl Commla1lon .t: the National Endowment for tbe Artl 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 


tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~ 

out of control or over which you have no control. It obviously was in that context that I was using the word, as I explained in the interview." 
Knight's NBC interview was conducted March 1 at Assem­bly Hall, the morning after In­diana lost to Illinois, according to the newspaper's column written by sports editor Bob Hammel. 
During the interview, Ham­mel said, Knight asked Chung and her NBC director to delete the remark about rape out of concern he would be misin­terpreted. Hammel said that Chung "had used the most ob­jectionable of four-letter words several times in a lively back and forth discussion on camera. Somehow NBC did not elect to use any of those com­ments..." 
Two law students at the Bloomington campus, Susan Thomas and Sara D. Mowell, said they were planning a "Give Back the Knight" march on Sunday to protest the coac­h's remarks. The Bloomington chapter of National Organiza­tion for Women sponsored a rape-awareness march called "Take Back the Night" on Sun­day, the day before Knight's comments were made. 
"He equated rape and sex, which is one of the mythologies that surrounds rape," said Ms. Mowell. "And I think he needs to be held accountable for his uneducated remark and for his ignorance about the subject." 
The coach's comments oc­curred in the midst of continu­ing concern in the Bloomington area about the safety of women on and near the campus of 32,500 students. 
The Indiana University Police Department counts 14 rapes or attempted rapes since the start of the school year, ac­cording to deputy director George Huntington. 
Knight said he hoped the con­troversy generated by his remarks would serve a useful purpose. 
"All I can say is that if this did, even through mism­terpretation, focus attention on a very serious social problem, then I'm happy to have assist­ed," he said. 
Dad, Mom, 
Bid,AJm~.& 
•.'·····.·.·..r··.·.·.·
vogs.. ····•···•·········· 
should be an enjoyable experi­ence. He was just being Bob Knight, which some might argue is a crime in itself. 
But if it was someone other than Knight making the com­ment, the papers might not have been flooded with the story, or lack thereof. The statement was unfortunate, but it was not the story everyone made it out to be. 
Bob Knight will be Bob Knight. 
The press will be the press. 
And it seems nothing will ever change the years of feuding between the two. 

'l)enws' 
RESTAURANT 
Congratulations to the Class of 88 
Open 24 Hours 
Breaktast :>ervea Anytime I mile north or campus 
52626 US 31 N. 277-0022 


THE SKY'S THE LIMIT!! 

LOVE Mom and Dad Ed and Michael 

---~---------~-­
Friday, April 29, 1988 
The Observer page 25 
Men's tennis finishes season at Illinois State Hard-working Kalbas leads Irish 
By GEORGE TRAVERS lessness that Kalbas exhibits. Sports Writer "He was instrumental in the recruit­ing of Dave DiLucia, our top incoming 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team player. He's willing to help out for one winds up its season this Saturday reason only --it will help the team. against Illinois State. The team travels That's something anyone would ad­to Normal, Ill. for a scheduled 1 p.m. mire." outdoor match. Beyond the fundamentals, Kalbas' 
The Irish (17~12) will try to snap a true strength lies in his intense deter­two game losing streak, as well as say mination and desire to win. Kalbas him­goodbye to seniors Dan Walsh, Paul self recognizes this and feels it helps Daggs, and Sean O'Brien. Led by fresh­himself and more importantly, the man star Ian Symmonds, Illinois State team. will be a tough match for Notre Dame. "When I play I will attempt try anyth­
For the Irish it marks the end of an ing in order to win. I play a precise up and down, but always exciting year. passing shot game, so concentration is If one had to pick the heart and soul of a must. If I can't concentrate, I can't the '88 Irish, it would undoubtedly be play well. This year I feel my strong number one singles player Brian play has come because of this concen­Kalbas. Kalbas has been an awe inspir­tration, along with a lot of hard work." ing force on the team this year, excell­ing both on and off the court. 
Kalbas is not always a dominating force on the tennis court. Being that he 
Kalbas, a junior from Carmel, In­5'10" and 140 pounds, he often plays diana, is 16-10 in singles play. He has with a physical disadvantage com­been one of the top Irish players for the pared to his opponent. It is then that past three, but this year he has made Kalbas can use this determination he a quantum leap to become one of the posesses to wear down his opponents. premiere college tennis players in the country. Relying on his quickness and accu­
First year coach Bob Bayliss sees rate passing shots, Kalbas has been Kalbas as the spark in his squad. able to beat most of his slower and tal­
"As well as being a leader on the ler opponents. Kalbas will captain the team, Brian Kalbas has become a com­Irish next year, and looks to sparkplete tennis player. This year I've seen Notre Dame into the top twenty. him make great strides to improve on his weaknesses. Bayliss also feels the Irish can im­
"Brian is not the type of player who prove greatly next season, and says 
will take it easy in practice," said Kalbas will be an integral part of that Bayliss. "In fact he is one of the hardest improvement. practicing players I've coached. He's "Things look very bright for next improved his serve, his return and his year. We have a strong, experienced
A precise passing shot game has helped singles position tennis 
doubles play to become an all-around returning squad and some outstanding
lift Brian Kalbas to the number-one squad. 
great player." recruits coming in. We will play an­~ ·1:13A 3HJ. 'J.SV:)AOOB 'J.S'fOAOOB '··· .•••••.~ty 1~,;1 ~0. DtD~v, J0 •. n Kalbas helps the team in many ways other tough schedule, facing schools
.,,..""'""',"'"' ........... ,..,.,.,t.J,, _ n:.... ········· 4AJr... Yot 
off the court. Besides being a respected such as UCLA and Texas A&M. Come leader as a person and a player, Bayliss next year, Notre Dame will be ready
~BUY CLASSIFIEDs:·~ 
is particularly impressed at the self-for anyone." 
J.~'< ---...~......... .,s., ~vp~~'""BJ. ralij The Observer
·.o-1! 
9

f ,'i)£4j,.'*'J-;.,~ ! st Campus VIew? P1e-,!~~.., l!o,"IO 'to11 8$ L------------' 
•••••••··••·••·••···········•••·············••·······••····•········•••·•••·•·••••···••·······•··•········•••••••••••··••••••••••••••••••••··•·········••·••••··••·••••···•••• 
Hey! To Ernst & Whinney! 
Congratulations to the outstanding 1988 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's accountancy graduates who are
Where's 
beginning their careers at Ernst & Whinney: 
University of Notre Dame 
everybody 
Tim Adams Chicago Bill O'Neill New York Mike Allen Grand Rapids Jim Oliver New York Tim Arnold Boston Pete Pellegrino Chicago
going? 
Joe Aubuchon Chicago Andy Richardson Philadelphia John Burtis Boston Stacey Schwartz Chicago Bob Carroll Cincinnati Jim Schwetschenau Chicago Lisa Conboy Chicago Mike Szymanski Boston Markris Dalum Chicago Mark Taylor Pittsburgh Tom Elliott Chicago Diane Tinley Boston Nancy Horas Chicago Bob Tirva Chicago Tom Hudak Boston Brian Tobin Chicago Mike Huecker Chicago Karen Vohwinkle Boston Mike Hug Fort Worth Mary Sharon White Chicago Kevin Keane Chicago Gretchen Loeffler Cincinnati Steve Lunney Boston 
Saint Mary's College 
John Maher Atlanta Jeff Morgan Chicago Julie Baer Chicago Mark Naumann Chicago Joan Boutton Chicago Bob Neirynck Boston Sheila Campbell Indianapolis Shannon Oakes Boston Jean Saelens Chicago John Omernyk San Francisco Vanessa Van Paemel South Bend 
Why Ernst & Whinney? Because these accounting students know that Ernst &Whinney offers challenging careers and an 
EIU Ernst & Whinney open track to advancement and personal growth. 
············································•······•···················•·····•··························•·····•··········••···•·····•·••······•·•·······•·····•·········•····• 

_, 
-~------------------------­
-~ ~ 
page 26 Friday, April 29, 1988
The Observer 

Pesavento does it all 
By STEVE MEGARGEE gory, having scored 134 runs talent, and we needed to Assistant Sports Editor while at Notre Dame. believe in ourselves. Coach And as for batting average, Murphy instilled that in all of 
When Pat Murphy arrived as Pesavento ranks second on the ,us." Notre Dame head coach, he squad to sophomore In a Notre Dame baseball knew he had plenty of questions rightfielder Dan Peltier. But a season that has seen the team to solve. But amid all the prob­.349 average through 45 games go through periods of hot (14 lems and uncertainties, there certainly is nothing that would wins in 17 games) and cold was one given--the Irish would make a coach upset. (five losses in the first six be strong at shortstop. "Pesavento has been great, games), Pesavento's example 
Pat Pesavento had been just outstanding," said as a model of consistency plenty effective during the past Murphy. "People don't know leaves Murphy certain his star • two seasons for the Irish, bat­how much he's done because shortstop will not be ending his ting .366 in his sophomore year he can hurt you in so many baseball career when he leaves and leading the team in hits ways. He can hurt you with his Notre Dame. (57), runs scored (39) and defense, offense, baserunning "There's no doubt he'll be stolen bases (14). And after or even with a heads-up play drafted," Murphy says. "No being picked late in the draft mentally.'' question about it." by the Boston Red Sox last The three-year starting Pesavento too knows he has spring, the senior from Lock­shortstop also has set a new a great chance of being picked port, Ill., was emerging as a school record for hits in a in the higher rounds of the draft pro prospect. career (177), and he is 11 hits this time around. 
.. _ "Pat should lead us in stolen away from the record for hits "I've heard from a lot of dif­bases, runs scored and prob­in a season (70). ferent teams," said Pesavento. ably batting average," said "He's a great competitor and "Last year, I only hear from Murphy. "I really believe he is a great athlete," continued about five, but this year I've worthy of All-America recogni­Murphy. "We know what we're heard from about 15 or 20 tion, not just because of his getting when he steps on the teams, so the outlook's pretty ability but also because of his field, and that's 100 percent. He good." competitiveness." never plays poorly. He might But with a year of eligibility It might sound as if the first­not have a good day in the field, left, and with the Notre Dame year coach was putting a little but he'll be doing great hitting baseball program starting to too much pressure on his vet­and running the bases. And if turn the corner, it remains to eran infielder. Instead, it was he's not hitting, chances ate be seen whether Pesavento will a match made in heaven. he's making some great plays leave after this season or not. "He told me after the fall that in the field." "I have a lot of options," said I'd be leading off, and that was The admiration is mutual. Pesavento. "I've got another something different for me," Pesavento realizes Murphy's year here, and if I get the said Pesavento. "My job is to contributions in helping the money I want (from the pros), just get on base, steal a base if squad, which was 15-29 a year maybe I'll go after this year. I can and score, and that's all ago, post a 26-20 record so far "But I'm really hoping to I've had to do. Coach Murphy's this season. come back," Pesavento contin­told us we all have our own jobs "He's a lot more aggressive ued. "Baseball's starting to to do, and that's been mine. than (former) Coach Gallo, take off here, and I want to be "I think I felt a little extra and he's a lot more positive, a part of it. And Coach pressure, but it was a good type which all of' us needed," said Murphy's someone I want to of pressure," the shortstop con­Pesavento. "We always had play for." 
tinued. "Coach laid down what 
DIIHIII....UHHIII..................__.............UIInii..........IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII...UIIIII...III 
I had to do, and no ifs, ands or buts. I've been able to produce. I feel comfortable, and he's made me feel comfortable." 
And in a season full of surprises for the Irish baseball team, Pesavento's production has been all that was expected. 
Murphy expected him to lead the team in stolen bases. He has set a new school record for stolen bases in a season with 25 swipes. Pesavento also has set a new career mark with 43 stolen bases. 
Murphy expected him to lead the team in runs scored. Pesavento has set a new school record with 57 runs scored this season. He also has shattered the career record in this cate­
3.20 a.m. 6.15 a.m. 
5:20 a.m. 7:45 a.m. 8:15 a.m. 7:20a.m. 9:45a.m. 10:15 a.m.
Grace wins 
ND'61 

9:20a.m. 11:45 a.m. 12:15 a.m. 11:20 a.m. 1:45 p.m. 2:15p.m. '1--...-----.11 1:20 p.m. 3:45p.m. 4:15p.m. 
ironwood
IH lacrosse 

........,~:---·,____..-'----~ 3 20 p.m. 5:45 p.m. 6 15 p.m.
wine and spirits 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
5:20 p.m. 7:45 p.m. 8:15 p.m.
Sports Writer 
• 10:15 .m.

Domestic and imported wines beers liquors Grace beat Off Campus 4-2 
(219) 272-7144 
Thursday night to win the In­terhall lacrosse title as an­

1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 ticipated. Accoring to NVA student co­
7:55 a.m. 8:15 a.m. 

800 a.m.
ordinator Tara Hotopp, Grace 
9:55 a.m. 10:15 a.m. 

10:00 a.m.
was expected to win the cham­
1155 a.m. 12:15 p.m 

12 00 p m 
pionship but she said Off 
Do you recognize this~ 
1:55 p.m 2:15p.m 

2:00p.m
Campus was the surprise team 
3:55 p.m 4:15 p.m. 

4:00pm
of the tournament. Off Campus 
5:55p.m 6:15p.m 

6:00pm.
upset Cavanaugh in the semi­
Cfl? 
7:55 p.m. 8:15 p.m. 

8:00pm.
finals 3-2 in sudden-death over­
10:25 p m. 10:45 p.m 

11:00 p.m
time. 
12:25 a.m. * 
Junior captain Craig Mer­rigan led Grace with two goals 
We re glad it•s
while senior John Kirk and 
junior Mike Shevlin each added 
going to be 
a score. Grace's sophomore 
goalie John Schoen "did an ex­
with us in the
cellent job" according to Mer­

rigan and was named the Windy City!
team's most-valuable player. 
Grace kept the ball on offense for most of the game as the goaltending of senior Pete 
CALL UHITED UMO 
McCormick kept Off Campus in 
the game. 

Friday, April 29, 1988 page 27
The et.rver 

Orioles cannot buy a break 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS--The Bal­timore Orioles can't even get into a save situation. Mean­while, a career minor-leaguer steps off an airplane and picks up a save for the Minnesota Twins. 
That's how it goes when the record-setting Orioles come to town. 
The Orioles' 4-2 loss to Min­nesota on Thursday was their 21st straight, setting the all­time American League record for futility. They had shared the old mark of 20 with three other teams. 
Next on the list are the 1961 Philadelphia Phillies, who hold the modern major-league record of 23 in a row. The Orioles visit the Chicago White Sox for a three-game series, starting Friday night. 
Baltimore starter Mike Bod­dicker was singing as he emerged from his post-game shower Thursday. And he wasn't singing the blues. 
"I've always told the kids coming up that if you keep (the Twins) under four you can win at the (Metrodome)," Bod­dicker said. "So I'm not hang­ing my head. I tried the best I could. I battled and I know the hitters are doing the same." 
Boddicker, a former 20-game winner who makes about $850,000 per year, did pitch decently. But he was out­pitched by a pair of jour­neymen who began the week in the minor leagues. 
Allan Anderson went 6 1-3 
strong innings and, after Mike 
Mason struggled, Mark Por­
tugal went the final 2 2-3 for his 
second major-league save. 
Anderson, who was recalled from Class AAA portland on Monday, was making his 13th major-league start. Portugal, a one-time bonus baby who has struggled for three seasons In­cluding 1-10 at Portland last year arrived during Thursday's game. He replaced Steve Carlton, who was was released Wednesday. 
"I got to the airport around the second inning, to the bal­lpark around the third and onto the field around the sixth. I was in the game by the seventh," Portugal said. "I was supposed to pitch yesterday and my arm was ready to go." 
Entering with the bases loaded and one out in the seventh, Portugal struck out pinch-hitter Fred Lynn and then got Cal Ripken to pop up. Both have been Twin killen over the years. 

GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS TUESDAY, MAY 3rd THRU SUNDAY, MAY 8th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND TABLE WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 3rd THRU MAY 8th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT 
(LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 1OOibs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

( 
Those woeful Ortoles still show no sign of turning It around, setting an American League record 
AL roundup 

Baltimore breaks loss record 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS--The win­less Baltimore Orioles set an American League record by losing their 21st straight game Thursday, falling to the Min­nesota Twins 4-2 on just six hits against Allan Anderson and two relievers. 
The Orioles went meekly. After Eddie Murray's leadoff double in the fourth, they did not get another hit until Murray led off the eighth with a single. At the same time, Baltimore commited two errors, and pitcher Mike Boddicker walked six and hit three batters. 
Royals 6, Yankees 3 
George Brett drove in three 
.~runs with a homer and double as the Kansas City Royals beat New York 6-3 Thursday night at New York to win a three­game series at Yankee Stadium for the first time in eight years. The Royals, who had lost 22 of their last 25 games in New York before winning the second 

A's 6, Blue Jays 2 
Dave Parker hit a three-run homer in a five-run fifth inning and Dave Stewart became the first six-game winner in baseball Thursday night as the Oakland Athletics completed a three-game sweep of the Toronto Blue Jays with a 6-2 victory at Toronto. 
Stewart, 6-0, balked twice for 11 this season, tying the major league record set in 1979 by Steve Carlton of the Philadep­hia Phillies. 
. 

Mariners 3, Indians 1 
Rookie Mike Campbell threw a five-hitter and Henry Cotto knocked in two runs Thursday night at Cleveland as the Seattle Mariners beat the Cleveland Indians 3-1. 
Campbell, 2-2, struck out seven and walked three for his second complete game of the year, sending the Indians to only their third loss in the last 13 games. Cleveland's 16-5 record still matches the best start in team history. 
Tigers 5, Angels 0 
Frank Tanana pitched a five­hitter for eight innings, raising his record to 5-0 Thursday night at Detroit in the Detroit Tigers' 2-1 victory over the California Angels. 
Tanana, who struck out five and and walked five, needed relief from Mike Henneman, who pitched the ninth for his eighth save. 
White Sox 6, Red Sox 0 
Kenny Williams' three-run homer and the four-hit pitching of Dave LaPoint led the Chicago White Sox to a 6-0 vic­tory Thursday night that snapped the Boston Red Sox' six-game winning streak. 
Williams' homer, his fourth of the season, carried more than 400 feet into the upper deck in left field in the second inning. It came after Carlton Fisk and Dan Pasqua both sin­gled off loser Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd, 2-1. 

TIME TO 
HIT THE L I N IC I 
BURKE MEMORIAl GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP AT THE ROCKNE MEMORIAl 
sruonns u.so 

SHIRTS ,. SWEATE:RS ,. CAPS STRH $4.25WD 8'$5.251DE 
BfULS " UMBRELLAS * GLOIJE:S 
19 HOLE COURSE: 

STUDENT SPEC IRL RE:NTRL CLU9S RND CARTS 
riNALS WHK FRE:E MILK SHRICE: Wlrn NE:W TE:E:S JUST OPE:NED! 
$10 PRD S~OP PURC~ASE: 



~--~ 
Friday, April 29, 1988 

The Observer page 28 
Captain Skupien adjusts, picks up hitting 
,.. 


It The Observer1 Suzanne Poch 

Irish captain Steve Skuplen has been making enough contact lately to raise his batting average almost 200 points. 
EXTRA BASES-Notre Dame leads the MCC in team
MCC 
hitting with a team average of .295 as of Apr. 19... Peltier's
continued from page 32 

.395 average on that date ranks not reached the NCAA's for 18 him second in the conference years. in hitting. He leads the MCC in 
Notre Dame is almost cer­doubles ... Tim Hutson ranks 
tain to host the tournament, as tops in the conference in home 
it appears the Irish will clinch runs and runs batted in ... 
.. the MCC's East Division title. Pesavento leads the confer­Evansville and Butler also ence in runs scored, with Pel­have clinched tournament tier just behind him. 
of four from Detroit at Jake Kline Field. Notre Dame prob­ably will face Butler in the first round of the tournament. 

"We've played Butler and beaten them twice in two tough games," said Murphy. "They'll have a revenge factor * in their favor. The bottom line *
* 
is to go out and play baseball 
* 

and keep your mind thinking of ~ each play and each pitch one at a time. If we do that instead *
* 
of just thinking 'we can beat 
* 

Butler' or 'we can beat * Evansville,' good things will *
* 
happen." 
* 
If Notre Dame does host the 
* 

tournament, the first day of ac­*
* 
tion will be May 20 at Jake Kline 
* 

Field, with play switching to ** Stanley Coveleski Stadium on ** 
May 21 and 22. 
*
* 
Stephan1a-"1hank you for being a friond" ..."F-· (Elton Jclln 
* 
or Michael w. Smith) .. ."Wa~ng 
* 
on a Friond'.. ."My Boot Freind"a 
* 
Giri'.. ."Oid Frienda".. ."Whonaver I Call You Friend' ..."'fou're a 
* 
Friend of Mlne'...'You Got a 
*
* 
Friend." Uh oh, I'm already ahead of you IHl on this one. SerioUsly. thanks lor being woo you are and for making a couple of 
* 
*
claases a lot more fun. Happy unbirthday, good luck on exams and have an awesome summer. 
*•*********************************! 

• ©Anheuser-Busch. Inc Sl , Mo 
Any University-owned *
*
* 
refrigerator is to be *
* 
returned to Stepan *
*
* 
Center Cleaned and *
*
*
Defrosted on 

*
*
*
*
*
Friday, April 29 *
* 
Between 12pm and 5pm *
*
*

*
* 

Your $20.00 Deposit will ** be refunded then. ** 
*
*
* 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
"Pretty much I'm kind of the liasion between the coaches and the players," says senior Steve Skupien, citing his major role as captain of the Notre Dame baseball team. 
The role of a captain usually doesn't include spending much time on the bench. But that's exactly where the Mission Viejo, Cal., native found him­self after suffering a slow start at the plate. 
Skupien slumped along with 
a .129 batting average in his first 12 games. First-year Irish coach Pat Murphy had fresh­man Mike Coss take over the captain's starting position at third base. 
"I pretty much an even-keel player," said Skupien. "Maybe with the new coach, I tried too hard. And with the pressure of captaining, I may have put too much pressure on myself to ex­cel." 

But having started at third base for the past two seasons, where he had shown himself to be one of the team's major catalysts and top defensive players, Skupien couldn't help but be surprised with his sud­den change in fortune. 
"I definitely wasn't used to the role," said Skupien. "I just tried to keep a positive frame of mind. I knew I'd get a shot righthander would react to his demotion. 
somewhere."  
Skupien's  reaction  to  the  
switch pleased Murphy,  who  
wasn't  quite  sure  how  the  

"He's been a good captain and a steadying force, and he's accepted his role whatever it's been," said Murphy. "It's a good example for the players when you have a senior captain sitting on the bench and not complaining. 
"It's very common for a two­year sitting on the bench to get hurt feelings," continued Murphy. "He just put his nose to the grindstone and butsted his butt. He's been a gre~t lift for us." 
Skupien's patience eventu­ally paid off. When junior second baseman Mike Moshier sprained a wrist in a 5-0 loss to Northwestern on Apr. 13, Murphy turned to the captain. 
Having not worked at second base since his freshman year, except for a few workouts in the fall, Skupien has made the switch from third base smooth­ly. 
But Skupien's been even more impressive with his hit­ting. The captain is batting 17­for-32 in the last 12 games for 
a .531 average. His average for the season has soared almost 
TWO GREAT WAYS TO· SPENO 
AN EVENING. 
Super-premium Michelob and Michelob Light in 12 oz. bottles. 
200 points to .313 (before Tues­day's 5-2 win over Purdue). 
"I realized I had nothing to lose," said Skupien. "I decided not to let things affect me and just concetrate and relax. wanted to make sure not to push and let things take care of themselves. 
"I'd say the main thing was just confidence," the captain continued. "I figured I might as well just get the job done." 
Murphy has been more than pleased with Skupien's emer­gence at second base and its effects on the Irish infield. 
"I'm really happy Skupien got the opportunity to prove to me he's a real player," said Murphy. "When he got beaten out (by Coss) I didn't know how he'd respond. He just waited and proved himself when his time came. 
"He's going to be tough to get out of the lineup," Murphy con­tinued, referring to what might happen when Moshier returns to action in about a week. "It's a tossup on what the infield will be like, but it's a good situation to have." 
berths. Either Detroit, Dayton or Xavier will fill the one other spot in the tourney. 
Evansville is the definite fa­vorite in the MCC this season. The Purple Aces sport a 28-13 record with wins over Memphis State, Vanderbilt, Alabama­Birmingham and West Vir­ginia. Evansville also has the conference's top two pitchers in Andy Benes (9-1, 0.82 ERA as of Apr. 19) and Craig Fis­cher (6-1, 2.54 ERA). 
The Irish swept a doubleheader at Butler on March 26, winning the first game 5-1 and taking the nightcap 3-2 in extra innings. In other MCC action, Notre Dame has split four games with Dayton at home and won three 
WELOCOME TO THE COMPAnY OF MATURE GEnTLEMEn 
Happy 21st Birthday on ay 23 
LOVE YOU, DAD & MOM 


------------------------~ 
I 
I 

page 29 Fno.y,Apnl29, 1988
The Observer 


NL roundup 
Brunansky powers Cards 
Associated Press Pirates 2, Giants 1 second baseman Robby Thompson. 
SAN DIEGO--Tom SAN FRANCISCO--Darnell Jeff Robinson, 2-0, pitched 3 Brunansky hit two homers to Coles' bloop RBI single in the 2-3 innings of one-hit relief. pace an 11-hit attack Thursday lOth inning gave the Pittsburgh as the St. Louis Cardinals beat Pirates a 2-1 victory over the Cubs 5, Dodgers 1 the San Diego Padres 6-4. San Francisco Giants 
Thursday. LOS ANGELES--Andre Daw­
Brunansky hit a two-run son ignited a four-run sixth in­homer in the second inning off The Pirates, who won for the ning with a two-run triple and Padres starter Ed Whitson and 13th time in their last 16 games, the Chicago Cubs survived a a solo shot in the fifth off Mark had only four hits. Their run pair of errors Thursday night Grant. He now has three was charged to Craig Lefferts, en route to a 5-l victory over homers in his last two games. 1-1, and was the first off the the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
reliever in seven games this Calvin Schiraldi, 1-2, struck season. out seven and walked one in 5 Larry McWilliams, 1-0, 1-3 innings.
pitched 5 1-3 shutout innings to pick up the win after relieving Bobby Bonilla opened the in­starter Jose DeLeon in the ning with a bloop single to cen­Rookie Tim Belcher, 1-1,second inning. Todd Worrell ter and was sacrificed to fanned six of the first 10 batters came in with two outs in the second by Sid Bream. Don Rob­and finished with a career-high ninth and struck out Chris inson then relieved Lefferts eight strikeouts. He allowed Brown to pick up his sixth save. and gave up the game-winning only a fourth-inning double by
The loser was Greg Booker, hit, which went into short right Dawson through the first five 0-1. field just over the glove of innings. 


WIN A WORlDWIDE TRIP FORTWO! 
TYPE OF ACCOUNT 
Ewclw•lwe Direct Deposit .......................................... Z5 PayroU Deduction.................................... 10NO Consumer Choice Loan........................... 15 FREE Checldn1 (Interest bearing)......... 10 Savings; Christmas Chtb; CD's ............... 10 Prime Uae or VISA Card......................... I 0Beaeftta ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS Card..................... 5 
f...-APIUL 4, ....... MAY 7, 1-__,. Dra....llei411AY I, INI 
GllAND PRIZE Worldwide roundtrip airfare for two on anyAmerican Airlines route. PLUS-$300 ADVANTAGE/CIRRUS cash! FOIST PIUZE -Weekend package trip for 2 to downtown Chicago. 
SECOND PIUZE -Schwinn™ 10 speed bike. TlllllD P1UZE -Golf clubs. 4 FOIJIITII PlACE WINNERS-Tennis Rackets 
I FIFI1I PlACE WINNEllS -35mm Automatic Cameras All airline and travel packages are provided by AmericanAi1ines and QUj';.fj@ 
LaFortaae Benldns Center Z37 -S4ND 
fUll. SERVICE BANKING HOURS: Monday-Friday lOam -7pm; Saturday lOam -lpm 
•All tranaactlone except balance lnqulrle• qualify. No pun:baR neceuary. Official rule. and entry blank.l are available at Lafortune Buldq Center omce. 
01..TrvA:orp Bank. Soutllllead MEMIIEII me 
Capitals win, 
• 

even ser1es 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.--Scott Stevens set up four goals, including the go­ahead score by Dale Hunter in a three-goal first period, as the Washington Capitals routed the New Jersey Devils 7-2 Thursday night to send the Patrick Division finals to a seventh game. 
With the victory, the Capi­tals evened the series at 3-3 and forced a deciding game at the Capital Centre Satur­day night. The winner will open the Wales Conference finals Monday night at Bos­ton, the Adams Division win­ner. 
Washington's victory marked the fourth time this year that the Capitals have avoided elimination from the playoffs. The Capitals rallied from a 3-1 deficit to beat Philadelphia in the opening round. Before this year, the Capitals were 0-5 when facing elimination. 
Goaltender Pete Peeters, returning after missing Game 5 due to a concussion suffered Sunday night, out­played Devils' rookie Sean Burke, who was not sharp and was replaced after two periods by Bob Sauve. 
Claude Loiselle gave the Devils a 1-0 lead 18 seconds into the game, backhanding the puck past Peeters from 
just outside the crease after 676 for the series. 
******************** 
: -¥ APRIL 29, 1988 
~ 

~ .* HAPPY 19TH : BIRTHDAY
f* f!! ROB~·~ 
• • Love, Mom, Dad, Billy lf--~1
! . Ryan, Brett & Travis 
~****************
' 

Students earn money and gain job experience this summer. Positions now open in: 
·Marketing ·Office Autornlltlon ·Personnel • Accounting 
• 
Distribution • Manufactulllng 

• 
Advertising • Telemarketing 


No experience necessary. No fee, no contract. We have the poshlons/hours to keep you busy this summer. 
r~cnd. Contact these offices for more tmormatlon: 
KIJIIClt• 
1900 EMI Golf Rd. 
Sct.umburg, Ill. 
3121812-1233 
2400 E. O.Von Ave. 
O.PIIIIn... lll. 
31218n-0850 

One Md-Arnerlc:. Plaza Oekbroak T..,._, II. 312J!J74-27117 
1801 North Bond st Nlf*vlle, Ill. 3121380-2440 
t1707 Skokie Blvd. 
Skokie, Ill. 
3121t173-<4024 
Bring In this ad and receive an addhlonal $20.GO on your tim paycheck. 
4740Weeteed'ISt. 
Oeklllwn, Ill. 
312183~1 
845 North ~Ave. 
Chlcllgo. II. 
3121387-eoM 
55WeetMonroe 
Chlclfo, II. 3121782--4181 
Chlcllgo 0111ce A!Mmllllon 35EaetW_.., 
Chlcllgo, II. 3121346-0278 
it bounced errantly off the backboards. 
But Peeters stiffened and the Capitals came back with three goals for a 3-1 lead after the first 20 minutes. 
Mike Ridley tied the game when his flip pass from the side of the net went in off Burke's stick at 6:40. 
Hunter gave the Capitals the lead when he lifted the rebound of a shot by Stevens from the left point over Burke at 13:07, while Wash­ington was on the power play. 
Steve Leach made it 3-1 when he scored on a 25­footer from the slot at 17:03 after taking a lead pass from Stevens. 
The Capitals made it 4-1 when Yvon Corriveau inter­cepted a cross-ice pass at center ice by Randy Velis­chek, went in alone and beat Burke from 15 feet at 10:43 of the second period. Dave Christian knocked in Mike Gartner's rebound at 17:48 for a 5-1 lead. 
Kelly Miller's short­handed goal at 5:25 of the third period, also set up by Stevens, made it 6-1. New Jersey's David Maley added a goal at 7:21 before Gartner's power-play goal with 1:28 left completed the scoring. 
The two teams combined for 81 penalty minutes, giving them a playoff-record 
* :
* ~ 
~ ~ 

.. 
.­
·-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, April 29, 1988
The Observer
page 30 

IH soccer champs crowned 
Mouch's goal leads Lewis past Farley 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
The women's Interhall soc­cer season ended yesterday with a game, which was surpsising considering the number of forfeits that marked the 1988 season. 
Lewis Hall used a tough defense and the timely scoring of junior Ellen Mouch to defeat Farley 1-0 at Stepan field. The Lewis offense held the ball at the Farley end throughout most of the windy second half, and Mouch's goal with about seven minutes remaining was 

.. 
all Lewis. "We deserved to win," said Lewis coach Dan Carr. "Far­
ley is the toughest team we've played, and this game could have gone either way." 
Carr's team reached the playoffs the easy way. 
"No one plays," Carr said. "We only played two games before the finals. We need to play more games to see who the better teams really are." 
Lewis reached the finals the easy way, winning forfeit deci­sions over Badin and eventual runner-up Farley and winning contests with Pasquirilla West and Walsh in the B Division. Farley reached the finals with a 3-1 record, the only loss being the forfeit to Lewis. 
In the A Divsion, Lyons powered its way through the regular season with a perfect 4-0 mark, followed by Breen­Phillips (3-1). Howard Hall finished at 3-2 and Pasquerilla East ended at 2-3. 
Farley beat Lyons to open the final four and reach the title game, and Lewis remained un­beaten with a win over Breen­Phillips to set the stage for the final matchup. 
"It was a really tight game," 
said Carr. "There was always 
pressure at both ends." 
"We came inot this with a good attitude," Carr continued. "We were serious about win­ning, but we also wanted to have fun." 

Alumni completes tourney sweep 
saved two penalty shots in the 

By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor  "We were disorganized in the first half," Davison said. "The wind was really a factor. We  final, and St. Ed's keeper, Eddie Bradley, also played a  
Alumni  Hall  completed its  got things back together in the  tough game.  





1988 soccer season with a second and really started "Both the goalkeepers had championship game victory playing better." great games," said Brian Shea, over St. Edward's Hall in yes­Alumni reached the champi­St. Ed's captain. "They both IllALUMNI terday's Interhall final. onship game through the win­made some great saves. It was SENIOR ~ The defensive struggle was ners bracket, remaining unde­
agoodgame.Alumnidefinitely ...__
cLUB
tied 1-1 after regulation and feated in the five games deserved to win. They were the ... 
captain Jon Davison's Alumni leading up to the final. The best we played all spring." squad won the contest on team disposed of Grace, Runner-up St. Ed's beat penalty kicks, 4-2. Pangborn, LaPolla and St. LaPolla in the loser's bracket ~~~IS:IS:~~----;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~uaS!IsJ 

St. Ed's used the favorable Ed's before facing St. Ed's in order to reach the rematch win to its advantage in the first again in the final. with Alumni in the final game. 
Doug Riely and Will Norwind

half and took an early 1-0 lead John Boroski led the Alumni 
r:RtDAY ...Ill 
on sophomore Jim Milligan's defense throughout the season, were both defensive standouts 
goal, but Alumni came back in and brother Chris scored every for the St. Ed's squad. 
the second period. regualtion goal for the cham­"It was a clean, physical, oo_t DRAFT 
Mike Hennessy scored the pions up until the final game. good-spirited game," Shea tying goal as he headed the ball Colin McCarter was also an of­
said. "Our whole team would 

75 <t MADRAS ·Dtr.-5EA6REEZE 
into the net coming off of a fine fensive leader for Alumni. like to thank Alumni. We feel 
I-lEV••• WE'It€ CLOSEt> ·nu~ SA.i'Uc.DA.V. 
cross from John Coveny. In goal, Bill Fitzpatrick really good about the game." 
SEN\OR 'WEEKSc.~EDULE
Jordan explodes as Bulls beat Cavs 
WE•u. a& OP8M: Pistons 96, Bullets 87 Thomas and seven from Adrian FR\DA\' MAV <0 •
Associated Press 

Detroit won its opener · Dantley, took a 62-61 lead on a 
S~RO~Y MA.'I I
Michael Jordan scored 50 against Washington as Isiah breakaway layup by Thomas Thomas scored 26 of his 34 with 4:33 remaining in the third 
points, including 20 in the 

We Dt-JE~O~Y MA'I I\ (oLDies t.J\E:t\rr li)
points in the second half. quarter and led the rest of thesecond quarter when he out­way.
scored the entire Cleveland Washington had a 42-38 edge 11-\IJQ"SO~\' MA.'I \'Z. 
team, as the Chicago Bulls beat at halftime before Steve Colter 
the Cavaliers 104-93 in the hit the Bullets' first six points Mavericks 120, Rockets 11 0 S~~D,t..~ 'MA'/ \4 
opener of their best-of-five of the second half, giving them Dallas got a balanced offense 
o~s ~EN A.T 9 :oo ~=»tv~ c.L.a:.E /li::r 2:ooam.
NBA playoff series Thursday a 48-41 lead. led by reserve Roy Tarpley and But the Pistons, getting 12 center James Donaldson to out­21 t.D. IS ~EQUIRED, •
night. 
third-quarter points from last Houston. 

Activities Night August 30, 1988
~························································ 
The following organizations have registered for a table at the 1988 Activities Night held at 
Stepan Center. If your organization has not yet registered, please stop by the Student Activities 
Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline for registering is May 3. 
Adworks** AIESIC** Aikido club** Air Force ROTC** Alpha Epsilon Delta** American Lebanese Club** American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics** American Society of Mechanical Engineers** American Society of Metals** Amnesty International Group 43** Anthropology Club** Anti-Apartheid Network** Arnold Air Soceity** Arts and Letters Business Society** ASCE-Student Chapter** Asian Society of Notre DameSaint Mary's** Bacchus** Bagpipe Band** Balet Folklorica Azul Y Oro** Baptist Student Union** Big BrotherS'Big Sisters of Notre Dame** Black Cultural Arts Council** BCAF** Boxing Club** Center for Basic Learning Skills** Circle K International** Community of The International Lay Apostolate** College Democrats** College Republicans** Council for Fun and Learning** Dismas House** Dolphin Club** Dome** Entrepreneurial Club** Equestrian Club** FeUowship of Christian Athletes** Fianace Club of Notre Dame duLac** FoodShare** Free Enterprise Club** German Club** Gymnastics Club** Handbell Choir** Hawaiian Club** Hispanic-American Organization** Ichthus** Irish Marauder Drill Team** Italian Club** International Student Organization** Investment Club** Japan Club** Judo Club** Juggling Club** Knights of Columbus** Knights of Immaculata** League of Black Business Students** Uturgical Choir** MadMacs** Marketing Club** Math Club** Men's Volleyball Club** NAACP** National Society of Black Engineers** ND Porn Porn Squad** Neighborhood Study Help Program** New Jersey Club of Notre Dame** Omicron Delta Epsilon** Overnight Shelter for The Homeless** Oversees Development Network** Pax Christi -Notre Dame** People of Praise Club** Phlllipine Club** PreProfessional Society** Progressive Music Club** Project Head Start** Psychology Club** Raquetball Club** Right to Ufe, Notre DameSaint Mary's** Rugby Football Club (Men)** Scholastic** Shenanigans** Ski Team** Society of Women Engineers** South Bend Boys Club** Spanish Club** Spiritual Rock** Squash Club** SL Edward's Hall Players** Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG)** Student Tutorial Education Program•• Student Union Board** Synchronized Swim Team•• Thomas More Society** Toastmasters** Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble** Volunteers for Northern Indiana State Developmental Center ... Water Polo Club** Windsurfing Club** Women United for Justice and Peace•• Women's Caucus•• Women's Track Club** World Hunger CoaUtion•• WVFI-AM** 


Friday, April 29, 1988 -------------------T~h~e::..:::O:::bse=.:.rv.:.:e::.:r_______________________P_a_g_e_3_1 

Campus 
Friday 8 a.m.: Medical College Admissions Test, Engineering Auditorium. 10 a.m.: Spring Pottery Sale, O'Shaughnessy Great Hall. 1 p.m.: SMC Tennis vs. St. Francis College, SMC Tennis Courts. 
Saturday 8 p.m.: WWF Wrestling, JACC Arena, $12 and $9. Sunday 4 p.m.: Center for Social Concerns Spanish Liturgy, Farley Hall Chapel. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
April in Paris Special Dinner  Baked Fish Swedish Meatballs Fried Veggie Basked Deli Bar  

• 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Mild oath 5 Shoot the 
breeze 

9 Put away 14 Melange 15 Sworn avowal 
16 City on the Po 17 Hamilton Is on them 18 Circus performer 
19 Stupid 20 Planes do 23 Bargain 

counter sign 24 Lively dance 25 Joanne of the 
movies 27 Words to 

music 32 Lessen 36 Cheer 39 USSR sea 40 Planes do 43 Nonesuch 44 Palo­45 Moved gently © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 46 Rill 
All Rights Reserved 

46 Kin: abbr. 50 Not as much 9 "OH In the­53 Kubla Khan's night" 
land 10 Sandwich fish 


58 Actors do 11 Alg. seaport 62 Story 12 Peel 63 Pilfer 13 Comp. pt. 64 Small -(be 21 More mature
.. 

leery) 22 Gr. letter 65 Ledger entry 26 USSR range 66 Sound 28 -avis 67 Scratch out 29 Rainbow 68 Feats 30 Spelunker's 69 Mast milieu 70 Vaticinator 31 Coaster 
~ 32 Fuaaes
5tC Dl~~ 
DOWN 33 Inclination 
D(IV£ 1 Must 34 Mimic 


Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
, Comics 
Bloom County 


2 NY city 35 Biblical weed 
3 Kitchen 37 Can. prov. M/21/11 
necessities 38 Repute 
4 Bible book 41 Less wild 
5 Treasure chest 42 Unbend 52 Pry 58 Other 
8 Moiety 47 Makes aware 54 Approaches 59 Snout 
7 Go on -49 Eng. cathedral 55 Nimbi 60 Having pedal 
(carouse) town 56 Certain digits 
8 Macbeth's 51 Epsom and enzyme 61 Sp. lady 
title smelling 57 Absolute 62 Craze 
Berke Breathed 
Bill Watterson 

At the VIncent van Gogh School of Art 

I 

l
POMPER: 
100
'" 
Sorry We Won•t Be 
•
There For Your Big Dayl 
HAPPY 
c.
EARLY 
21ST 

---~----­
• Sports
page 32 Friday, April 29, 1988 
ND hosts Buckeyes in G L title match 

By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team battles Ohio State for the Great Lakes Lacrosse Associ­ation title at Edward W. 'Moose' Krause Stadium (Loftus Sports Center if rain) Saturday at 1:30 p.m. 
The 11-3 Irish enter their season finale against the Buck­eyes with their best season record ever and a chance at their third Great Lakes cham­pionship, having won in '85 and '86. A loss to the Buckeyes would throw the two teams and Michigan State into a three­way tie for the title. 
The Buckeyes battled Air Force, who beat the Irish 14-8, to a 14-13 loss earlier in the year. Thus the Irish know they can't afford to take Ohio State lightly or let-up on the emotion that helped them beat Mic­higan State Wednesday. 
"Ohio State is certainly be­coming a force in the Midwest and we will have to take them out of the game early," said senior tri-captain John McNic­holas. "If the intensity isn't as high as against Michigan State, we could be in for a surprise." 
The Irish will be without leading scorer John Olmstead, who will be taking the MCAT exam. Head coach Rich O'Leary said it is "still a mys­tery" how the Irish will make up for Olmstead's absence, but the team said they feel up to the task. 
"It goes without saying that it will be 'Romper Room' .out there without Johnny on the field, but I think we'll be able to handle it," junior attackman Mark Healy said. 

The game will be the farewell performance for seven seniors who have all made major con­tributions to this year's record­The Observer I Rob Regovich 
setting team. Art Brady Is one of several seniors playing their Stadium. A win would clinch the Great Lakes title last home match Saturday when the Notre Dame for the Irish. see SENIORS, page 23 lacrosse team hosts Ohio State at Krause 
Marching to a different beat 
Record-breaking NO baseball prepares for MCC 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Before the season started, first-year Notre Dame baseball coach Pat Murphy made allu­sions to a classic oldie when he said he wanted to "bring back that winning feeling." 
The Irish have done just that, sporting a 26-20 mark with eight games left in the regular season. But with all due respects to the Righteous Brot­hers, the Irish have decided to make noise with their own records this year. 
Notre Dame players have broken nine school records already this year, including marks for doubles, homers and runs runs scored. Dan Peltier holds the doubles record with 16 this season, Tim Hutson's 12 homers sets the school stan­dard in that category and Pat Pesavento's 57 runs break a school record. 
Pesavento has been the leader of this Irish band, set five records this 

.... 
season. The senior from Lock­port, Ill., also is well within reach of the mark for hits in a season (70). 
The squad's onslaught on the Notre Dame record books does not mean nearly as much to Murphy as the winning record that the Irish team has for the first time since 1982. 
"I don't concern myself much with the records," said Murphy. "It's the mark of people having great perfor­mances individually, but it means nothing if the players don't work together, execute and win. It's nice, but what's most important is winning." 
Notre Dame has no games during exam week, but once finals are over, the season resumes with a vengeance. The Irish play nine days in a span of five days to close the regular season. 
The stretch begins with a May 7 doubleheader at Val­paraiso. Notre Dame then hosts Valpo for a doubleheader 
and 
~ 
,.. 
. .t.·.:·""'l'i 
t·· 
Jake Kline Field for a single game on May 9. 
The Irish end the season on the road with a doubleheader at Illinois-Chicago on May 10 and a twinbill at Ball State on May 11. 
"We've had a tremendously successful year so far, and we'll try to keep the practices short but intense this week," said Murphy. "It's important this week to get schoolwork taken care of, but we don't want to slack off on baseball. 
"Even though school's out when we play again, we can't lose discipline and time man­agement now," continued Murphy. "It's imporatant that we continue to play good baseball because going into the tournament you want to be playing your best." 
Murphy is referring to the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence tournament, which has an NCAA Tournament bid at stake for the winner. The Irish have 
see MCC, page 28 

Scenes like this one-freshman Greg Vogele fol· home run last 
ltl8 U0581V8r I Mll<tl MUIIIII 
week against Illinois-Chicago­

lows home Chris Flynn (8), James Sass (9) and show that "the winning feeling" has returned to Tim Hutson (24) after hitting his first collegiate Irish baseball. 
~PreSS--Overreacting 
to Knight's remark 
Here's this large man, a man so big he can't keep his gut inside his sweater during basketball games, cuffing Connie Chung in the head on national television Monday. 
That's not exactly what you expect when you tune in to an NBC News correspondent, unless you knew ahead of time that Indiana basketball coach Bob Knight was the subject of Chung's interview. Then you'd expect just about anything. 

Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 

For the record, he wasn't really hitting Chung. Chung asked Knight how he motivates his players, and Knight decided that acting it out would be clever. That was quite innocent compared to what was coming up in the interview. 
But there was something symbolic about the beating Knight was pretending to give Chung. He was acting out on a member of the media exactly what the coach has been exchanging with the media for 17 years at the Hoosier helm. A good, sound thrashing. 
Then the media struck back. Knight gave them the per­fect chance. 
The interview was about stress, and Chung asked Knight how he handles it. Knight responded with an unfortunate and downright strange comparison to rape. 
"I think that if rape is inevitable, relax and enjoy it," Knight said. He was trying to make a point that worrying about something inevitable only creates more stress. Leave it to Bobby Knight to say it in a manner like that. He immediately realized the stupidity of his comparison, and added: 
"I'm not talking about the act of rape. Don't misinterpret me there. But what I'm talking about is, something hap­pens to you, so you have to handle it--now." 
The comments appeared in newspapers all over the country the next day. Bob Knight seems to have a knack for stirring up controversy. If he's not harassing a police officer or a reporter, he's throwing a chair across the floor in the middle of a game or pulling his team off the court because he disagrees with the referees. Citing the example of rape in an interview about stress is one of the most 
see KNIGHT, page 24 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Lewis, Alumni claim IH soccer  Kalbas,  Irish  tennis  finish  
crowns ...................... page 30  season ...................... page 24  
Morrissey, St. Joe's set pace  New women's varsity sports  
In IH baseball .......... page 20  taking shape ............ page 20  










