Clouded visions
IACCENT: Aerospace Engineering Lab Becoming cloudy Tuesday with a 40 percent chance of light snow by late morning.
IVIEWPOINT: The problems of rape 
High near 30. 


Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H.-Vice Pres­ident George Bush forecast a win but Sen. Bob Dole showed confidence Monday as the GOP presidential field sprinted for the finish line in a tight New Hampshire primary race. Democrat Michael Dukakis said his expected win might be smaller than predicted. 
Bush campaigned side by 
Man with chest pains hospitalized 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
A University administrator was listed in serious condition in the coronary care unit of Memorial Hospital Monday night, a hospital spokeswoman said. 
Walter Bartholomew, an as­sistant director in the adminis­trative computing department, was carried from the Adminis­tration Building by paramedics at about 2 p.m. Monday after complaining of chest pains. 
No determination had been made as to whether he had suf­fered a heart attack, the spokeswoman said. Before a determination is made for such patients, ''usually they are un­der observation for a few days and undergo many tests," said the spokeswoman. 
Bartholomew had suddenly taken ill in the administrative computing office on the fourth floor of the building, said Karen Aberli, a secretary in the of­fice. "We really didn't know what was wrong," Aberli said. "He did say that he had chest pains." 
The paramedics carried Bar­tholomew in a special collap­sable chair down the northeast stairwell of the Administration Building. Bartholomew indi­cated to the paramedics at the 
see SEIZURE, page 5 
side with former Sen. Barry Goldwater as he threw all his campaign could muster into a bid to arrest Dole's week-long surge and regain his own poli­tical footing. 
One candidate after another posted hopeful predictions of a surprise when New Hampshire voters render their verdict in the nation's lead-off primary on Tuesday. 
"I don't know where all those political pundits are today but they ran for cover four years ago and they're likely to run 

for cover tomorrow," said former Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont, back in the pack in the GOP race. 
Rep. Jack Kemp, his GOP candidacy on the line, held out the hope of a second-place finish that would confound the pollsters. "I'm going to finish in a good competitive third or higher," he said. 

Democratic Sen. Paul Simon, also facing tough times if he falters, said he was sure he'd defeat Rep. Richard Gep­hardt for second place. Refer­ring to Dukakis' commanding lead in the polls, he said, "I think there is a possibility of a real surprise coming tomor­row." 
Fellow Democrat Bruce Bab­bitt, far off the pace in the polls, said, "I'm anticipating a strong showing and a surprise but I can't put a number on it." 
Former television evangelist Pat Robertson bid to deal with a tempest that arose over his claim that the Soviet Union has 
see ELECTION, page 5 
Waldheim says 
he won't 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria -President Kurt W aldheim rejected the "slanders, hateful demonstra­tions and wholesale condemna­tions" of those who want him to resign and urged the nation Monday to unite behind him. 
His televised speech ap­peared certain to deepen divi­sions caused by the report of an international panel of his­torians last week. It questioned the president's moral integrity and said he was "in close prox­imity" to Nazi atrocities during World War II and did nothing to stop them. 
On Monday, he claimed with­out giving specifics that "parts 
•
res1gn 
of the report do not correspond to the facts but are built on presumptions and hypotheses. For that reason, the conclu­sions drawn cannot be upheld." 
Waldheim, 69, used highly emotional language in appeals both to World War II com­patriots and those too young to know "the horrors of this war." 
He said he might have erred in not discussing his wartime past but said he never tried to conceal it. "I have a clear con­science," the former U.N. secretary-general told Austria's 7.5 million citizens. 
In their 202-page report, the historians concluded that 
see AUSTRIA, page 5 
'Monty Python' star to give show at SMC 
form a comedy act in O'Laughlin Auditorium on April 24. The former actor
Crimestoppers proposed 
A bulldozer gorges itself on what used to be a hill next to the Clarke 
held Monday night in the 
Memorial Fountain. The work is part of preparation for the building of 
Haggar College Center. 
an annex to the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Chapman, one of Great 
B. itain's top actors, will per­
By ANGELA MCDONALD News Staff 
The comedy act of former Monty Python actor Grab m Chapman and the upcoming student government elec­tions were topics of discus­sion at the Saint Mary's pro­gramming board meeting 
By GREG LUCAS Copy Editor 
The Student Senate dis­cussed a proposal that calls for the implementation of an on­campus Crimestoppers pro­gram, Monday night. 
According to Brian Holst, student senator, who intro­duced the resolution, the pro­gram would be run in a similar manner as the one in South Bend and other cities: a "crime of the week" would be publicized and monetary rewards would be given to a student who was able to supply information leading to an ar­rest. 
Holst cited the large number of bookbags that are stolen each week and recent assaults of students in parking lots as justification for definite action. "We need to address this prob­lem currently,'' said Holst. 
"Notre Dame student gov­ernment would supply a cer­tain amount of money for the reward fund," Holst said, add­ing that the actual program would be run entirely by Notre Dame Security. 
Holst said that Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame secur­ity had agreed to support the program if it ever got off the ground. 
Holst said that he had also spoken to John Goldrick, asso­ciate vice president of student affairs. "Dr. Goldrick seems supportive of the idea," Holst said. 
see SENATE, page 5 
in "The Monty Python Show" is best remembered for his appearances in "The Holy Grail" and "Life of Brian.'' 
Graham is on a college­wide tour, which already in­cludes the University of Al­abama and SyracuseUniversity. 
"The show is supposed to be spectacular and everyone is encouraged to attend this event," said Smith Has­hagen, vice president of Stu­dent Affairs. The show is co­sponsored by Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Tickets are on sale $5 per student and $10 for the general public.
The Junior Class will be sponsoring a Mardi Gras today from 9-1 p.m. at the Elk's Lodge. Junior class Vice President Rozel Gat­maitan said that although tickets may be purchased at the door-, "we encourage everyone to buy the tickets before the Mardi Gras, be­cause we are anticipating a huge turnout." For more ticket information contact Rozel at 284-5083 or Rose at 284-5049. 
Elections for the student body and class officers will be held Feb. 24 in Saga during meal times. 
There will also be a "Meet 
The Candidates" night held 
on Feb. 22, for students to 
become more acquainted 
with the people running for 
office. 
";Everyone is encouraged to note the forthcoming events and come out and support the Saint Mary's community," said Has­hagen. 

page 2 
In Brief 
''Hoosiers'' will be showing in Moscow and Leningrad this week as part of a rare American film fes­tival. The film has gotten little international play has never been released in most European nations. However, the Soviets understand basketball and the problem of a drunken coach's assistant is expected to hit home in a nation with a campaign against alcoholism underway. A big question is whether the Soviets will be able to grip the concept of a small high school team competing and even­tually winning against much larger schools. -Associated Press 
A federal judge temporarily barred enforcement of a new rule Monday that prevents federally funded family planning clinics from advising pregnant women on abor­tion. The suit claims the new ruling violates a federal statute, censors free speech and violates the right of privacy of patients. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
A Chinese sword dance demonstration sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics will take place at 4 p.m. in the Hes­burgh Library auditorium. It will be conducted by Hongyi Sun, a native of China. -The Observer 
Mock convention delegate sign-ups will be held 
in North and South Dining Halls today and tomorrow. 1,000 
delegates are needed. -The Observer 
I.S.O., the International Student Organization, is spon­soring a lecture by Dr. Ken Jamison, Professor in the Department of Economics. The lecture will be on "The Evolution of Possible Future Spheres of Influence in the Economic World" and will be held at 7 p.m. in the I.S.O. Lounge in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Career decision making workshops will be held for undeclaredUndecided sophomores at the University Coun­seling Center from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in Room 300. -The Ob­server 
A logo contest is being held for the Collegiate Jazz 
Festival's thirtieth anniversary, to be held April 8 and 9. 
The winning designer will receive $100 and old designs are 
available for reference. Entries are due Feb. 29 in the 
Student Union Board office. For more information, contact 
Dave Thornton at 287-6575 or Kevin Mundy at 283-3797. 
-The Observer 
A Campus Bible Study "Program for Lent" sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry will be held on Tuesday nights at 8. This is a five one-hour session series during the season of Lent with Father AI D'Alonzo, CSC, as Director. Registration and orientation will be at 8 p.m. at the Badin Hall Chapel. -The Observer 
Your scholarship may be taxed if it exceeds the cost of tuition, fees, books, and supplies. Information meetings ·for undergraduates will be held this afternoon from 3 to 
4: 30 in Room 600 of the Hesburgh Library and tomorrow morning from 10:30 to 11:30 in Room 1300 of the Hesburgh Library. Additional meetings will be held Thursday mor­ning and next Wednesday. -The Observer 
World Hunger Coalition will hold a meeting tomorrow night at the Center for Social Concerns at 7. Bill Jordan, a Holy Cross Associate who recently returned from two years of service in Chile, will speak on his experience in Third World agricultural development. -The Observer 
Financial Aid forms must be filed now in order to get financial aid for 1988-89. F AFs that reach CSS after Feb. 28, 1988 are late. Forms are available in the Financial Aid Office. -The Observer 
The Catholic Faith Series continues in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Sister Regina Coli will speak from 7 to 8:30 on "The Church." -The Observer 

Design Editor .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Matt Breslin Sports Copy Editor ......... Theresa Kelly Design Assistant ............... Pete LaFluer Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Matt Slaughter Typesetters ...................... Dana Jennetta Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner .................................. Becky Gunderman Accent Copy Editor ....... Theresa Loomis News Editor..... .. ........ Chris Julka Accent Layout.. ............. Kathleen Moran Copy Editor ...................... Matt Crowley Photographer ....................... Jim Carroll 
nt Ollllner (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throu&h Friday except durin& ClWII and vacation periods. neOblener is published by the students'of the Univcnity or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purc:bu­ed for $40 per year (12.5 per semester) by writina nt Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
'he Ollllner is I member of 'he Allodalld ~. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, February 16, 1988
The Observer 
ND has moral duty 
to go 
I was disappointed last week to find that The Observer is against the Coca-Cola boycott or­ganized under the Anti-Apartheid Network. 
The claim is that the boycott seems more like a personal attack on Donald Keough than a tool of political pressure. The emphasis is on edu­cation and information instead of action. 
The Coke boycott was not started at Notre Dame. It is a national effort to pressure the South African government, and Notre Dame is just one of many to join the campaign. 
The fact that Donald Keough is chairman of the Board of Trustees is coincidental. It is not a personal attack on him, nor anyone, but the South African government. 
Despite previous efforts to roll back apar­theid it is still with us, and has been in South Africa for far too long. Deadlines for the dis­mantling of this racist political system have come and gone, and it does not appear that it will be happening anytime soon. Talk is cheap. Education will not stop apartheid. The time for action has come. 
But be assured I ..am not your typical political activist, screaming about the latest issue. In fact, I have never participated in a political demonstration, and often I am opposed to them because they cause more trouble then they solve. I find it unbelievable that people think that by starving themselves they can cause sig­nificant political change. 
Nonetheless, the Coke boycott simply puts economic pressure on a company that has proclaimed divestment, but it is practicing pseudo-divestment in reality. 
The boycott is a great tool for the students to collectively let the Coca-Cola Company know that the public is not fooled by their divestment policy. We cannot boycott every company still operating within South Africa, but at least it is a step in the right directon. 
Divestment is the only viable policy for the dismantling of the apartheid system. Nothing speaks quite like the Almighty Dollar in our society. 
Now the profits from Notre Dame may not be significant enough to force Coke into com­plete divestment, but if many of the major col­lege campuses aQross the country also stage successful boycotts, the company will have to rethink its position. 
This does not mean we should not use our computers in the Math-Computer Center be­cause IBM is not completely divested. By doing this we would be causing more harm to our­selves than to IBM. 
On the other hand, the Coke boycott does not hurt the student body nearly as much since there are many other substitutes. Sure there is 
•

• 
HH 88 
WANTED: 
STUDENTS TO LIVE WITH FORMER PRISONERS
-efE
--llii!Ei==-· u=-A ..... 
* * *
DlSMAS
,. 
Apply to Kathy Royer (7862) at Center for Social Concerns
f)ouse 
* * * 
of APPLICATION DEADLINE 
February 29 
Mi~trihll~ 
• 
1eneed someone with the ronfidence ofaSDgtOOD,thededialtionof­amarathontrandthe rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer Call us all-800-424-8580, Exl. 9l 
Out with the old In with the new 
SALE 

"A community of support, reconciliation, and adjustment, the 
110 N. Whittaker • New Buffalo, Ml 49117 
Dismas House of Mlchlana offers a unique opportunity for Saint 
(616) 469-0801 
Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training experience with former prisoners. Together an environment of 
Extraordinary sportswear 
trust, friendship, and hope can be built to provide the confidence 
for men and women 
and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and integral member." 
50% off on our Eileen West dresses 
50% off on all men's pants, outwear 
Tim Dempsey, Resident of Dismas House
50% off on gorgeous handknit sweaters and more ... 
'uncola' 
Mike 
no Pepsi at the Dining Hall, but there are many other drinks available other than Coca-Cola soft drinks. Drink milk or water; they are better for you anyway. 
Firms like IBM do not escape completely. When the time comes for the University to make another major purchase of computer equip­ment, it should not buy from companies that have not made sincere efforts toward divest­ment. There are many other computer compan­ies that can satisfy the needs of the University, besides IBM. 
Many people try to argue that divestment of American firms from South Africa will just al­low for investment by foreign firms. 
First of all, the U.S. is a political and eco­nomic leader in the world. If the U.S. and its allies boycott South Africa, it would put pres­sure on many other countries to follow our lead. Obviously, we cannot force every country to boycott, but we must as a country follow our own path and do what is right for us regardless of our neighbors' policies. 
It is my sincere hope that the Notre Dame community can unite to send a small, yet sig­nificant signal to the Coca-Cola Company and the world, that we will no longer put up with a country that refuses to initiate reforms to dis­mantle apartheid. 

Tuesday, February 16, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
Israelis clash with Arabs, may have buried 4 alive 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Police fought Palestinians in the holy city Monday, and hospital officials said an Arab was wounded by gunfire. It was the first bloodshed reported in Jerusalem since riots in the oc­cupied lands began Dec. 8 
In the West Bank town of Kfar Salem, 40 miles north of Jerusalem, military inves­tigators questioned four young Arabs who say Israeli soldiers using a bulldozer buried them alive after a protest Feb. 5. 
"I am afraid. I thought I was going to die," Abdel Latif Mah­moud Ishtiah, 19, said soon after he was questioned in a white police van. "I dream about it all the time." 
Maj. Gen. Amram Mitzna, military commander in the West Bank, said a sergeant­major from the military gov­ernment and two or three other soldiers were involved and would be tried. 
He told army radio: "Even in my worst dreams, I would never imagine such a thing 
• 
even though I constantly warn commanders to expect the most awful things that could happen when soldiers find themselves all of a sudden com­manding and deciding the lives of citizens." 
In another case, the newspa­per Hadashot said three sol­diers of the elite Golani brigade were given jail terms of at least 21 days each for violating or­ders against excessive use of force. The army said it had no information. 
According to U.N. figures, 54 Arabs have been killed by Is­raelis since protests began in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Israel captured from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East war. Most of the dead were shot by soldiers, and hundreds have been wounded. 
Israel radio said 21 arrests were made Monday in Jerusalem, which Israel has annexed, bringing to 437 the number of Arabs detained in the city since trouble began in December. It said the latest ar­rests include four activists who had been leaders in organizing protests. 
Jerusalem police spokesman Rafi Levy said arrests were made in the Shufat refugee camp and Silwan village, both inside the city limits. 
He said police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse stone-throwing protesters in Anata, near Shufat. Levy said there were no reports of shoot­ing, but a border police officer at the scene told photographers rubber bullets and live am­munition were used. · 
Officials at Mukassad hospi­tal said a 23-year-old Arab from Shufat was brought in with a gunshot wound in the abdomen. The Arab-run Palestine Press Service said he was shot during a clash in Shufat. 
Border police in Jerusalem's Sur Bahir neighborhood fired tear gas to subdue protesters who built roadblocks of twisted metal and burning tires. 
The American Express• Card gets an outstanding welcome virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket or a leather-bound classic. Whether you're bound for a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Cant now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for astudent application. 
The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without It~ 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1988 
•
Iran regime 1n 10th year 
Associated Press Chief among the rival camps ecution of hundreds of oppo­are the revolutionary purists nents in the revolution's early 
TEHRAN, Iran -Ayatollah personified by Prime Minister days, had this to say about po­Ruhollah Khomeini's regime is Hussein Musavi and those litical disagreement during a in firm control as his fun­called pragmatists, who are led recent Majlis debate: ''the damentalist Islamic revolution by the parliament speaker, brave troops at the front should begins its lOth year, but a Hashemi Rafsanjani. not be worried by what may ap­power struggle looms when the No threat is evident to the pear to be irreconcilable dis­87-year-old patriarch dies. regime itself despite political agreements." 
His lieutenants appear to be rivalries and domestic grum­Security remains tight, there preparing for Khomeini's bling. is great distrust of foreigners, death, which will be a major Senior revolutionary leaders and the United States still is the test for the revolution at a time acknowledge public discontent "Great Satan." of war, economic hardship and but say economic hardship Revolutionary Guards, increasing international isola­stems from the war, not the fanatical followers of tion. revolution. Iraq invaded Iran Khomeini who are present in 
Khomeini is reported in poor in September 1980 after several every village and city neigh­health and has sought recently, border incidents. borhood, appear to have stifled after years of reluctance, to They also claim more public resistance. eliminate obstacles to eco­projects have been completed Islamic puritanism, per­nomic and social reform. than under the shah and more vasive in the early days after 
He remains the revered Im­has been done for the "mostat­Khomeini's return, has been am, symbol of an Islamic hafeen" (deprived), the mil­relaxed somewhat. resurgence that toppled the lions of slum dwellers and "There's dissatisfaction with late Shah Mohammad Reza peasants who formed the the strict Islamic rules im­Pahlavi and brought Khomeini bedrock support for Khomeini. posed on people and with the home in triumph on Feb. 1, Streets are full of people economic hardship, but at the 1979, after 15 years in exile. searching for bargains in the same time most people are 
The old man's messianic well-stocked stores, which are proud that Iran has resisted the charisma and authority have prohibitively expensive, or Iraqi invasion and so much held the revolution together standing in long lines outside pressure from the United through the long war with Iraq, shops that sell rationed goods States," one Western diplomat and Iran's other pressing inter­at government-controlled said privately. national and domestic prob­prices. 
The Observer I Jim Carroll lems. Everything is available on "People realize there's littleUnder the hoops Jockeying for position in the the black market -or "free they can do. They live in hope misty world of Iranian politics market," as the Iranians call the war may end soon, either
Members of the Ballroom Dance Club gave a whole new meaning to 
has intensified because of elec­it -at 10 times the official price. through victory or a settle­
'courtship' by taking another shot at developing their dancing skills Mon­
tions for the 270-seat Majlis, or Hojatoleslam Sadeq ment, so that at least their eco­
day night on a basketball court in Stepan Center, a meeting place highly 
parliament, scheduled for Khalkali, a former Islamic nomic hardship will be allevi­
frequented by the club. 
AprilS. prosecutor who ordered the ex-ated." 
US 'prepared to deal' T+++++++++•+++++++++++++++++++' with Soviet behavior 
i Q 0 . : 
• Associated Press The statement reflected the administration policy, since 
: Happy Birthday, Dear Heather : 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan the rise of Soviet leader Mik­administration's policy of hail Gorbachev in 1985, of 
keeping military and keeping distasteful and bitter : Happy Birthday to you : espionage blow-ups with the So­bilateral disputes from poison­viet Union from slowing a drive ing efforts to elicit from Mos­for better overall relations is cow a better human rights 
: Happy 21st Birthday, Dear Heather: 
back in operation following the record, arms control com­collision of U.S. and Soviet war­promises and a withdrawal of ships in the Black Sea. troops from Afghanistan. 
: ~ We love you. : 
The United States com­plained about Soviet actions in Over the past three years, last Friday's incident by sum­whether the issue has been al­moning Soviet ambassador leged Soviet spying, the jailing Yuri Dubrinin to a 20-minute of U.S. journalist Nicholas protest meeting with the State Daniloff, or attacks on Ameri­~ Dad, Mom, Eric ~ 
Department's third-ranking of­can military observers in East ficer. Germany, the Reagan admin­The department issued a istration has complained ­public condemnation. taken retaliatory action in some cases -and then gone back 
Yet Secretary of State to the bargaining table. 
l............. ................

George Shultz has no plan to dwell on the incident when he goes to Moscow next week to discuss arms control, regional issues like Afghanistan and the superpower summit envisioned for the spring, according to an aide who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
How much damage will the Black Sea incident do to the broad range of U.S.-Soviet re­lations? 
"Not much," the aide said. 
Indeed, the State Depart­ment's on-the-record reaction to what Navy officers called the deliberate and dangerous So­viet bumping of American war­ships operating innocently in the Black Sea included com­ments that conveyed more ex­asperation than outrage. 
,-,As Secretary of State Shultz said just a week ago, we are prepared to d~al with the best and worst of Soviet behavior," said spokesman Rudolph Boone. 
It is, after all, "a competitive relationship," Boone said. 

TO SIGN UP IN THE DINING HALLS TO BE A DELEGATE! 
Tuesday, February 16, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Victor Krebs, chairman of the committee for graduate-t.mdergraduate rela­tions, said that he objected to the moral implications of paying students for accusing other students. "A better idea would be to raise the moral con­sciousness of the community/' Krebs said. 
In other business, Dave Kinkopf, sophomore class pres­ident, announced that he is cur­rently trying to establish the "Sophomore Sibs Weekend" as an annual event. "What we're trying to do now is basically put (the program) under the Office of Student Activities and make it an annual event," Kinkopf said. 
According to Kinkopf, the sibs weekend was first held last year as a small pilot project. "We feel the project, based on participant response, was an overwhelming success," Kinkopf said. 
Kinkopf said that the pro­gram would be run under the same rules that were estab­lished last year, including an age limit of 12-15 years for the siblings. 
College Briefs 
The drug "Ecstasy" may be more popular than researchers first thought. A survey of 369 Stanford undergraduates in May has revealed that as many as one-third tried the drug. An earlier study had reported that only 8 percent had used Ecstasy. The drug, also known as MDMA, is chemically related to both hal­lucinogenic and stimulant drugs. Ecstasy may cause brain damage. -The National On-Campus Report 
The 1987 winner of the National College Bowl Tournment which was held back in June, was kept a secret until last month. In the final, Minnesota beat Georgia Tech, but the winner was kept secret until the Disney Channel broad­cast the final match. All of the participants were sworn to secrecy. This is Minnesota's second 
consecutive  title.  -The  National  On-Campus  
Report  
The  time  is  elusive  at  California  State  

University at Hayward, where broken clocks, lighting difficulties and a host of other problems have upset some students, faculty and staff. One student says the clocks are so bad that "we have London time, Baghdad time, Paris time, and sometimes Singapore time." Others say the hallways are too dark and office lighting is often blurry. -The National On-Campus Report "Decent Exposure" is the name of a new tan-through umbrella. It's made from a ma­terial that has a built-in sunscreen to allow burn-free tanning. There's a canopy version-­big enough for two--plus visors and caps that prevent peeling noses. -The National On­Campus Report 
A gender gap in financial aid is readil apparent, according to researcher Mary Moran in "Financial Aid and Women: Equity Dilem­ma?" For every dollar of financial aid a man gets, women receive 73 cents in grants and 84 cents in loans. Women face greater loan bur­dens, cultural factors against certain careers, and biases in favor of men. -The National On­Campus Report 
Datingabuse--includingridiculing, withholding approval and affection, public or private humiliation, and acting jealous or angry be­cause of a friendship with the opposite sex can be as damaging as physical abuse, says a Kansas professor who's studying the subject. Emotional abuse, he says, isn't always as vis­ually evident, but the scars are just as traumatic. Female freshmen are at the highest risk for dating abuse. -The National On-Campus Report 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GET 
INTO THE GRAD 
SCHOOL OF 
YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact 
is, no one has helped STANLIY H. UPIAN IDUCATlONAl CINTIR lTD. students score higher! 
IKAPLAN 
OTHER COURSiiS: MCAT. OAT, NClEX, NTE, CPA, BAR REVIEW, & OTHERS 
17 17 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
LSAT CLASS STARTS SOON!! 
FRESHMEN 
, .. E..VILRY DA 
00 Oldies Po.r+y Pa.i 1'{ "-:3oPM-s:~PM ALL u CAN E~T/DJliNK 
~PS.e ADMlSSIOH Iff" 'liOOF't-1 
CHECKERS C.AFE 
$21JI 00 PER DA'I 
.,, P~US lA)( 
PER PERSON 
QUAD OCCUPANC.'y' 
HfDAYTONA 
IOf<OADvv'A'Y AND A 
. . 1-800-874-/822 
. (' : 
DAYTONA BEACH 
FLORIDA 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY DEAN JAMES TAYLOR AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
6:30P.M. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16,1988 ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
Austria 
continued from page 1 
W aldheim tried to cover up his 
service as a German army 
lieutenant in the Balkans in 
1943-45. The government ap­
pointed the panel at 
Waldheim's request in Septem­
ber, after the United States put 
him on a "watch list" of un­
desirable aliens. 
Chancellor Franz Vranitzky 
said in a televised interview 
Sunday, which was praised 
even by conservative critics, 
that W aldheim "did not deal 
exactly with the truth" and 
must restore his credibility. 
Vranitzky said he would con­sider resigning if the conflict over W aldheim continued oc­cupying time the government should devote to other matters. The Socialist chancellor leads a coalition with the conserva­tive People's Party, which sup­ported Waldheim's election campaign in 1986. 
A petition drive for Waldheim's resignation has ob­tained more than 2,000 signa­tures, including those of most leading intellectuals, accor­ding to an employee of the news magazine Profil. It printed the first 1,496 signatures on three pages Monday. 
About 5,000 opponents of Waldheim demonstrated in downtown Vienna on Sunday, and about half marched to his office in the Hofburg palace, calling out for his resignation. 
The president has consis­tently denied wrongdoing since Austrian and U.S. media first disclosed his Balkans service in March 1986, during the elec­tion campaign. As the contro­versy continued, he has refused all demands that he resign. 
Seizure 
continued from page 1 
time that his pains were con­tinuous but were not becoming any more severe. 
He was then transferred to a stretcher on the first floor and transported to Memorial Hospital. 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1988 

Fireworks light up the sky over Calgary as part of which takes place each night during the XV Winter the Federal Express Celebration of Medal Winners, Olympics. 
Lithuanians protest Soviets 
Associated Press quickly disappeared down the to the Soviet sphere of influ­
city's narrow streets. ence. 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. -Soviet Tuesday marks the 70th an­About 80 percent of Lit­authorities staged an outdoor niversary of Lithuania's huania's 3.6 million people are rally to protest alleged U.S. in­declaration of independence on of Lithuanian descent, the high­terference in Baltic affairs Feb. 16, 1918, only months after est percentage of native popu­Monday, and officials cracked the Bolshevik revolution lation of any of the Baltic down on nationalists to prevent brought Communists to power republics. protests marking Lithuania's in Russia. Lithuanian Foreign Minister short-lived independence. Vladislavis Mikuciauskas, 
Lithuania, along with the asked by foreign journalists 
About 2,000 people gathered neighboring Baltic states of Es­who travelled from Moscow on in a chill wind on Gediminas tonia and Latvia, was absorbed a trip sponsored by the Soviet Square in central Vilnius for by the Soviet Union in 1940, a Foreign Ministry if people the official rally. Most kept year after the Ribbentropp­could mark the independence their hands in their pockets and Molotov Pact between Nazi day, said: "personally, yes. chatted with neighbors during Germany and the Soviet Union But it is forbidden to organize the hourlong protest, and then consigned most of the country anything." 
Expose on town now bestseller 
Associated Press In an interview, she said she 
and Pulitzer, 56, no longer had 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. personal conversations. She -Roxanne Pulitzer, whose ver­said she once loved him and sion of life in exclusive Palm now bore him no bitterness. Beach hit The New York Times "Sadder but wiser, I've bestseller list this week, says learned that the rules are dif­she feels no bitterness towards ferent in Palm Beach, just as her ex-husband five years after the rich are different. Both are their tawdry, well-publicized more ruthless. My story is divorce. about that difference and my 
"This is my Valentine's Day failure to appreciate it, whe­present," Ms. Pulitzer said of ther out of foolishness, love, reaching No. 10 Sunday on the passion or all three," she says national nonfiction bestseller in the book. list with "The Prize Pulitzer: At the 1982 divorce trial, the Scandal That Rocked Palm Pulitzer and other witnesses Beach -the Real Story." testified about her cocaine use, 
The book, which on its first affairs, occult experimentation page calls Palm Beach a "Buf­and in general, "gross moral fet Society Babylon," is full of misconduct," in the words of gossip about the rich and fa-Circuit Judge Carl Harper. mous, from Alfred Harper awarded custody of Bloomingdale to Barbra their twin sons to her husband. Streisand. Ms. Pulitzer, who has visitation 
There are descriptions of her rights, got to keep her Porsche, cocaine use and sexual fan­jewelry and some other items, tasies and realities. She says and received $2,000 a month that the first time she slept with alimony for two years. publishing heir Herbert Stunned by the ruling and "Peter" Pulitzer, she fan­outraged by the portrayal of tasized about making love to her as, she recalls in her book, 
O.J. Simpson, the former star "a sex-crazed, cocaine-running back for the Buffalo addicted disciple of Bills football team. witchcraft," Ms. Pulitzer 
Ms. Pulitzer, 36, is surpris­refused all interviews and book irigly favorable to Pulitzer. offers. 
"I married him because he Her money gone, she posed was the sexiest, smartest, fun­nude in "Playboy" in 1985, niest, strongest, most intrigu­received more calls from pub­ing and interesting man I had lishers and changed her mind. ever known," she says in the ' Ms. Pulitzer said she had book. They met when her first written "an upbeat book that's marriage, to an upstate New not revenge-oriented" for Vil­Yorker with a home in Palm lard Books with help from Beach, broke up. Kathleen Maxa. 



The Zenith Data Systems Z-159 Enhanced PC is IBM PC®-compatible and faster than the IBM PC/XT®. It's everything you'd expect in a powerful, flexible, expandable PC. And we're throwing in a few extras ... 
Now, the Z-159 Enhanced PC can be yours at a great student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! 
So stop by today. And see the Z-159 Enhanced PC for yourself. See you soon! 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center x7689 
or 
Fourway Computer Prod. 
Brad Koch 277-7720 
Zenith data systems 

data 
systems 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
© 1987, Zenith Data Systems 
r---------~-----------------------------------------------------------------~~-----------------------­
Accent
Tuesday, February 16, 1988 page 7 
'My Two Dads' not fully matured 
T
hese days prime time tele­viewer could predict. it cannot taurant In the building. vision viewing Is more con­be biologically determined The episodes are entertain­fusing than a plotilne on "Dal­which of the men Is the girl's Ing but not always funny. They las." It is very common for the father. What happens now? The usually pertain to competition new shows of a particular TV choices are clear cut. The men between Michael and Joey or season to mimic recently suc­can either put the girl up for the traumas of being a 12-year­cessful movies, and this TV adoption or do the responsible, old girl. What, no diaper season Is no different. The suc­unreal, typical TV thing--move changing scenes? (Nicole's too cess of "Baby Boom" and In together and raise the child. old for that.) In one episode Michael and Joey compete in a racquetball tournement to de­Joe Bucolo 
termine who is the "champ of the world." Another plotllneTo be ~ontinued ... deal's with Nicole's desire to 
ity. Greg Evigan also shines, TV comedy that does have
have a brother, which, for the 
keeping In character right down good actors and an enviable
obvious reasons, is a difficult 
to the hand gestures he makes time slot. The show's need for 
request for Joey and Michael to
"Three Men and a Baby" has The men are Michael Taylor while saying. "Now that we're Improvement lies In the 
spawned a number of similar satisfy. writing. but. once that's Im­
(Paul Reiser) and Joey Harris going to become fathers, why 
proved upon, NBC's comedy
TV shows, one of which is "My (Greg Evigan). Michael is a fin­Ali the episodes are full of don't we become adults, too?" Two Dads." one-liners (Michael: "We're fa­can emerge as a well-written,
ancial advisor who dresses to Stacl Keanan is a young actress In "My Two Dads" which airs kill and lives according to his ther of the year."); however, to with a bright future ahead of fresh show. One question: Why 
on NBC Sundays at 8:30p.m., appointment book. Joey's be considered outstanding. a her. 
didn't all these writers who are two men are caught In a con­dress could kill; he's an artist sit-com needs more than that. obsessed with "baby'' plots just fusing legal predicament. It who owns the loft in which they With an unoriginal and quite Besides the actors, "My Two get together and create one 
good show in which three men
seems that these former col­live. This fact is evidenced by unbelievable premise, the Dads" has another pricelesslege roommates, who haven't the furniture and interior writing of the show must be and a baby Inherit a daughter
advantage--its time slot. Posi­seen each other In 13 years, decoration. Their daughter Is clever enough to bring the tioned snugly after "Family for whom they make gourmet 
are about to inherit a gift from Nicole (Staci Keanan), a sweet viewers beyond these draw­Ties," "My Two Dads" main­baby food (which becomes a a deceased woman they both girl concerned about her fat­backs. tains a huge portion of the marketing success) and move used to date. They appear in hers and their relationship. into "Our House"? Of course,
"Ties" viewing audience. Since the judge's chambers only to Since the judge (Florence Stan­The performances on "My then the house would be so
time slot can mean life or discover the "gift" Is a 12-year­ley) lives in the same building. Two Dads," however, are death for a show, NBC blessed crowded the show would have old girl. (Those who remember It Is easy for her to check on worthy of praise. Paul Reiser is Joey and Michael with not only to be titled "Full House," which "Baby Boom" should be experi­Nicole and the dads. One final one of today's funniest com­a daughter, but a great place Is already In use. Hey, which encing extreme dt;ja vu right show regular is "Kiawickl" (Dick edians and portrays his charac­to raise her. one of these guys shot J.R. about now.) As any regular TV Butkis), the owner of the res-ter with class and responsibil-"My Two Dads" Is a typical anyway? 
Wind tunnels enhance lab's 'air' of professionalism 
NORMAN CAMPBELL creating a department with a on more research. space and Mechanical Enginee­equipment to be moved to the accent writer solid foundation in research. "The tunnels are composed ring. more than $400,000 has heat and power lab, which is With this thought In mind, of two subsonic tunnels for been appropriated for tunnel located between Ave Marla wat Is that ugly building?" Brown and Professor Emeritus flow velocities to a limit of research In the last year. Press and the maintenance Robert S. Eikenberry designed Mach 0.8, one transonic tunnel "We have the best three­building near Stepan Center,'' 
"Oh, It's just a place to store the wind tunnels that lie within for flow velocities of Mach 0.8-dimensional tunnels for flow said Patrick F. Dunn, Associate the baseball equipment and a the Aerospace Engineering Lab­1.2, and two supersonic tun­visualization in the world,"said Professor of Aerospace and few of the engineering stu­oratory. nels for flow velocities of Batill. Batill also said that the Mechanical Engineering. There dents." Built In 1947 from World War greater than Mach 1.2. They United States Air Force has just they will join an 80-foot-long 
This scene Is replayed year II Navy surplus compressors, allow researchers at Notre completed a $20 million proj­atmospheric wind tunnel to after year as Domers pass the the wind tunnels have been Dame to study components for ect. which is an extension of serve the research needs of the small building next to the housed In the aerospace lab aircraft ranging from slow the basic wind tunnel design aerospace program. Joyce ACC. which is affec­and help complete much of the propeller planes to the most created at Notre Dame. Along with the tunnels in the tionately known to aerospace low-speed wing testing that is modern jet fighters," said Step­The power of the tunnels is aerospace lab and the heat and engineering students as the done in the United States. hen M. Batill. Associate Profes­very immense. They are so power lab, there are three "aero shack" or "the garage." Wind tunnels are used to sor of Aerospace and Mechani­powerful. in fact. that the small tunnels located in the Few people outside of the speed air through a small test cal Engineering. power plant must be notified basement of Fitzpatrick Hall. engineering department realize section and simulate air flow Notre Dame has had a great before use to insure that no These tunnels are mainly for that within the pre-World War II over any object that travels reputation in the field of circuit overloads occur. the use of undergraduate stu­walls lie some of the best re­through the atmosphere, such aerodynamics research dating "When Fitzpatrick Hall of dents for the basic curriculum search wind tunnels in the as an aircraft. Through the use back to the 1870's, when Albert Engineering was constructed, re9uirement. United States. of wind tunnels, researchers Zahm performed tests on the tunnels were to be moved 
After founding the aerospace can test new technology In glider type aircraft. The Univer­to this new site. However, cal­With the equipment that is program in 1937, which was realistic situations without en­sity's wind tunnels have en­culations showed that the tun­available at Notre Dame, the one of the first degree pro­dangering human life, while hanced that reputation. Accor­nels could extract the air from research ranks with the latest grams In the United States, Dr. saving valuable time and ding to Robert C. Nelson, the entire building over a per­technological developments In Frank Brown was Interested in money that can be better spent Associate Professor of Aero-iod of a few hours," com­engineering. So now when 
mented Batill. So, for ventila­Domers walk by that ugly little tion and sound dampening building next to the Joyce ACC purposes the tunnels remained they will know that some of the in the old building at the east most sophisticated aerospace end of campus. testing equipment is right un­
"Future plans call for the der their noses. 
The Observer 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editor 
For further Information contact 
Beth Healy at The Observer 
(239-5303)
High technology wind tunnels ensure continuing quality research. 


• .: ~ ., l' ............• ........-.--•
4 ....... ·..;•... -•• •..."'~ .....
.. . '' ....... . 

Precautions a positive step 
In a seemingly secure university environment, students are not always as careful as they should be. Crime, physi­cal assaults and even rape remind us that students are not as safe as they might think. 
Last Sunday, Feb. 7, a female Notre Dame senior was assaulted in the D-2 parking lot. Though the victim was not sexually assaulted, the incident is a reminder that our community is not immune to the possibility of assault, whether it be sexual in nature or not. 
Students must take precautionary measures in order to avoid the possibility of sexual assault. 
A positive step in educating our community has been made by inviting Dr. Mary Koss, a clinical psychologist and one of the country's foremost researchers in the fields­of crime, rape and sexual assault, to speak at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. Her lecture tonight at 7:30p.m. will provide the professional insight necessary to alert stu­dents, both male and female, about the reality of sexual and physical assault and how each can be faced or even avoided. 
It is encouraging that more than 20 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's organizations have sponsored this lecture. The lecture alone, however, is not enough to eliminate the possibility of sexual assault in the community. 
Awareness of the likelihood of this occurrence in our community must follow Dr. Koss' presentation of the facts. This awareness then should manifest itself in different programs, such as discussion forums with assault victims and experts or self -defense requirements in physical edu­cation classes. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have very effective coun­seling networks. Perhaps an increased awareness of these counseling resources could prevent future attacks. 
It is encouraging that this step has been made. Now, students must work in order to understand the reality of sexual assaults and what can be done to avoid or combat the possibility from occuring. 
-The Observer 
On a weekly basis The Observer will select an issue that Is of interest to the community. In order to present various views on the issue, columns will be solicited from members of the school community. An invitation is also ex­tended to members of the Administration. In addition to these contributions, The Observer will also comment on the issue. 
The Observer welcomes letters to the Editor concerning the opinions presented on these and other Issues. The Observer, however, reserves the right to edit all letters, and the shorter the letter the better chance it has for publication. You may address the letters to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Confronting t 
Information can dispel myths 
Anyone. Anytime. Anywhere. These are the truths about rape and sexual abuse amid the myriad of myths and misinformation. Sexual victimization pervades our society. It can happen to anyone, at anytime and anywhere--even Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Byron Stevens 
guest column 
Sexual assault runs the gamut from the non-touching offenses such as obscene phone calls to sexual har­assment in the work place to the most violent and abusive touching offense, rape. Recent studies indi­cate that one in four American wo­men will have been sexually abused in some fashion during her lifetime. The FBI reports that rape is the fast­est growing violent crime in the na­tion. The Bureau also estimated that 10 to 30 percent of all rapes are not reported. Rape is not something that only happens in dark alleys in the bad parts of town. Victims of rape come from every race, creed and socio-economic class. 
Perhaps the most frightening fact about rape is that it is likely that the rapist will be known to the victim. Psychologists and professionals in the criminal justice field are becom­ing increasingly aware of this phe­nomenon known as "date rape" or "acquaintance rape." Victims are often manipulated by a "friend" or date into a dangerous situation in which they have no control; they can be forced or blackmailed into having sex against their will. 
These past few weeks The Obser­ver's Viewpoint pages have been filled with issues clamoring the need for more education: AIDS, alcohol abuse, apartheid. But as a commu­nity we are in need of education re­garding sexual abuse and rape per­haps more than any other issue. Mary Koss, Ph.D., the country's foremost expert on acquaintance rape, conducted a survey among col­lege women which indicates our ig­norance. The survey began: "Have you ever been raped?" Most an­swered no. Later the same survey asks: "Have you ever been forced to have sex against your will?" Many of those who answered negatively to the former question wrote yes to this latter one. What, then, is our crite­rion for rape? That it be done by a stranger? Or that it be done at gun­point or knifepoint? 
Rape is a sexual act that occurs 
without the consent of both parties. 
Rape is not erotic, or some expres-
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther Institution The News is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief. . . .... Kevin Becker Bus.-ness Manager ............................. John Ox rider Managing Editor ..... .................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor ............... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor. ... . . ................. ... . . ......... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Wamke Viewpoint Editor ...................... . .... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .. ............................ Dennis Corngan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor... .. .. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor... ..... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor... . ...... Jim Carroll 
Founclecl November 3, 1188 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 

oint 
page 8 -9 
harsh realities of rape 
assertively, but we need to accept mistrust while developing healthy,
Both females and males others' wishes. We need to learn that mutual male1'emale relationships. sexual prowess is measured in the Take a look at the posters; read the capacity for mutuality, tenderness messages. I hope you have never
suffer in this crime 
and respect, and not "how many heard one of the coercive state­
Last semester I traipsed all over aware of the crisis of rape? Men times you can get laid." ments, nor do I hope you ever use Notre Dame's campus to post the encounter the same post-rape Thus the "No means No" posters. one of them. publicity for a rape awareness week traumatization that women do, so If we learn to take people at their sponsored by CARE (Campus Al­they too should seek counseling to word and not use coercive threats to Sarah Cook is a senior psychology liance for Rape Elimination). When deal with the devastation of a sexual gain a false feeling of sexual success, major and student coordinator for I entered some of the male dorms, I assault. If you are someone who is we can avoid guilt, shame and CARE. was surprised when some of the men 
not yet directly affected by rape, I .------------------------------,
questioned why they needed to know encourage you to keep learning I about rape because, obviously, they about the problem by becoming in­themselves could never be vic­formed. Dr. Mary Koss, clinical psy­timized. It is estimated, however, chologist from Kent State Univer--. J 
P.O. Box Q 
that one in three women is at some sity, will be speaking on the most ._____________________________J 
point sexually assaulted in her prevalent form of rape on college lifetime. This means the chances are campuses, date rape, in When we asked why they didn't high that most men will at least meet "Outrageous Acts in Everyday Security lacking check into it, they said that the two a victim and come to know her. If I Seduction," on Feb. 16 in Carroll at St. Mary's girls didn't want to leave their car. 
have not yet caught the male ear, Auditorium at Saint Mary's. This We explained to them that we then maybe this fact will grab you: will be an excellent opportunity for Dear Editor: wouldn't just walk away from our the FBI estimates that 10 percent of men and women to learn more about This letter is to voice our disgust car while it was in the middle of the all sexual assault victims are men. an issue that can have a direct affect with the Saint Mary's Security sys­street. The Security people said that Unfortunately, most male rape vic­on your lives. tem. To us the purpose of Security they didn't understand what we ex­tims are unwilling to report their as­is to protect the students' well being. pected them to do. I explained that sault and only recently have their Mary Huffman is a senior history This, however, is not how the people I felt that it wouldn't be outrageous reports been heeded with serious­major and a member of CARE. of our Security system feel. They feel for them to drive out and let us sit ness by the police. This is especially that they are only responsible for the in a warm, safe car while they called true in the case of prison rape, in students when they are on the actual us a tow truck and then provided us
Posters
which victims who reported to the campus. a ride back to campus. They didn't authorities risk being further abused Our disenchantment with the sys­feel the same way and asked us why or even murdered by their fellow in­tem became apparent to us last Sat­we didn't try to phone a tow truck
emphasize
mates. Male rape, however, is not urday night when the car we were ourselves. Which would they have confined to the cell, and it can hap­driving stalled on Ironwood Road rather had us do: walk on a highway
openness
pen to anyone, male and female near the toll road. For fear of some­to a strange house and knock on the alike. You may have seen the black and one slamming into the car from be­door or take a ride with a stranger? white "No means No" posters hind, we stood alongside the car We thought that both options wereMary Huffman around campus and wondered what hoping a policeman would drive by. absurd. With the crime we hear they are about or where they came We weren't in an area where we about on the news everyday we felt from. The posters are a result of the could use a phone and were afraid that we would possibly be jeopardiz­guest column cooperative effort of CARE to abandon the car in the middle of ing our lives. The ironic part of this (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimina­this 45 mph road. Mter about 30 story is that last week we all Rape is defined by one psycholo­tion), SOS (Sex Offense Services) minutes a man pulled over and of­received flyers stating that Saint gist as "being forced to perform a and the Indiana State Board of fered to drive us to his house to call Mary's had implemented a systemsexual act against your will." Rape Health. During the month of Security or a tow truck. Not feeling in which people stranded off-campusis not sex, then; it is violence whose February, they will be distributed to safe about that we asked him if he could be helped if they called Secur­in advertis-weapon is sex. Therefore, when a all area college campuses and high could call Security and explain our ity. Security would either come pick 1 the courts­man is raped, he too becomes a vic­schools. situation. Not wanting to give a them up or would send a cab. They t education? tim of another man's violence. In stranger our names, we told him to chose to do neither for us. Theytmine one's eastern Massachusetts in 1984, close Sarah Cook just give them Trish for our names. didn't even call for a tow truck. How 1s. The next to 100 cases of men raped by other Mter about 25 minutes he returned much trouble would it have been to Most of us men were reported. This is a signif­and informed us that Saint Mary's call us a tow truck even if it was a like icant number, and the statistics can guest column Security would not leave campus. He prank? Second, who are they to be applied all over the country, then told us he would drive down to decide whether or not it is a prank?something worth listening to. Date rape, or acquaintance rape, a nearby Mobil station and get us a Wouldn't it have been better to take 
What, then, is the motive of the is a problem on today's college cam­tow truck. While he was gone Paul the time out to check it out than to rapist? According to psychiatrist puses. In fact, it is a problem Gatchell, an off-duty Notre Dame Se­read about two St. Mary's girls who Marshall Forstein of Cambridge everywhere. It is estimated that one curity officer, stopped to assist us. in the zero degree weather got Hospital, "Many heterosexual males out of every four women by the time He let us warm up in his truck and frostbite, were assaulted, abducted rape other men as a way of putting she is 18 years old will be a victim also radioed a tow truck for us. He or possibly found frozen to death out them down and strengthening their of rape or attempted rape. Over half even attempted to start the car but on Ironwood. We feel that it's better own sense of masculinity." Thus, of these women will know their at­was unsuccessful. Approximately 25 to be safe than sorry. Obviously this men who rape other men cannot be tacker. The FBI estimates that only minutes later the tow truck arrived isn't the opinion of Saint Mary's Se­stereotyped as homosexuals; this is 10 percent of all sexual assaults a~e and towed the car away. curity. not only untrue, but it would mis­ever reported. Why is this crime When we finally arrived back to We hope, by exposing this fault, takenely equate homosexuality with silent? Why are the other 90 percent campus we were so enraged that we that in the future Security will think violence. This is also not to say that never reported? went directly to the Security office. twice after receiving a similar phone men who are raped possess feminine The crime is not reported because When we entered we noticed there call. And remember next time you qualities. Rather, the rapist is often of the guilt, shame and embarrass­were six Security personnel inside. feel the need to criticize Notre Dame 
stigma. looking for someone available and ment that accompanies a sexual as­We asked them if they had received Security, just think about how much vulnerable who he can humiliate to sault, especially an assault by an ac­a phone call stating that two girls more worse off the girls at Saint 
in the Pro­empower himself, regardless of quaintance. What can we do about were stranded on Ironwood with a Mary's are. ies and a gender. This fact alone should open it? Contrary to what many think, we broken car. They responded saying works as a the eyes of men who still believe they can do something about it. Commu­that they had indeed received a call Patricia Bracken OS (Sex Of­could never be victimized. nication is a key factor in avoiding from a man saying the same thing. Tricia McLaughlin adison Cen-With these startling facts in mind, acquaintance rape. Not only must we They assumed it was a prank call Ji.oly Cross Hall 
what can you do to become more learn to communicate honestly and and disregarded it. 
Doonesbur} 
ifJLONc AMON6 THe IJtM(XMT7C aJNTCNI?!RS, rtNNeSSEE'S 
P~NC6A~RTHAP~ 
PARW FOR POIAitR FRIJM 8/l<fH. 
H& C£/<TA/Ni-Y SEEMEP!?eAI?Y. 
/JEP&Nf?!NG OJ H/9 AUP/CNC/3, 
... IUEU-PRCPAR£1/... 7Ht HARVAR[)-TRA/N/3{) Pf?INCE tat!~ BY TURN9,!Aitu-VtRSW. .. 
Garry Trudeau 
... ANO BIUNGUAL . 
Y:4LL !AlANNA HeAR 
MAH COON IJIIWG 
/ CAU.? 
February 12, 1988 • 
Campus Quote 
"Effective leadership 
means  getting  the  best  
people  you  can  find  to  
shape  the  vision  and  

help in achieving it." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1988 
Temple stays on top 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The Loyola Marymount Lions may not even notice they've broken into the national rankings for the first time in the school's his­tory, or if they quickly disap­pear from the Top Twenty. 
A seven-second attention span makes it difficult to ab­sorb information. 
"There's nothing very mys­terious about me and my coaching," said Coach Paul Westhead, whose high-scoring Lions have won 17 in a row and are ranked 20th in this week's poll. "I teach a non-stop run­ning game, shoot the ball within seven seconds. 
"We play so hard, play a full­court press every play and then shoot so fast, our guys have trouble knowing what their names are, to say nothing about national rankings ...,"he said. 
Temple held on to the No. 1 ranking . in The Associated Press poll, with the Owls, 20-1, receiving 28 first-place votes and 1,141 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. The next three teams--Purdue, Arizona and Oklahoma--remained the same from last week. 
Rounding out the top 10 teams in this week's poll were No. 5 North Carolina, Duke, Brigham Young, Pittsburgh, Kentucky and Michigan. 
A loss to Temple, coupled with a loss to then-No. 5 Pit­tsburgh, knocked Villanova from the poll. Kansas State, which lost twice, and Indiana, which split two games, also fell from the poll. 
Missouri, which was ranked for five weeks from the start of the season, came in at 15th and Georgetown returned to the poll at No. 18 after a one-week absence. 
Sports Briefs 
The women's rugby team will have an organizational meeting Thursday, February 18, at 6 p.m. in the Middle Room of Farley Hall. If you are unable to come but are still interested in playing, call Lauren Nathe (3560), Kathy Shannon (4067) or Sarah Prinster (4039). -The Observer 
The Alpine Club will have a meeting Thursday, Feb. 18, at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. If you have any questions; call Shawn Foley at 271-o758. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will practice tomorrow at 7 p.m. on Courts 1 and 2 of the JACC in prep­aration for the March 5 match at Michigan. All interested club members who plan to partici­pate in the match, which will be a hardball match, should attend. -The Observer 
NBA scores from Monday night: Milwaukee over Washington 114-110, Chicago defeated At­lanta 126-107, Cleveland topped Sacremento 104­95, New York edged New Jersey 97-96, Detroit beat Philadelphia 102-95, Golden State over San Antonio, 126-122, Dallas edged Seattle in OT, 128-122, utah over Portland 112-94 and Boston over Phoenix 107-106. -Associated Press 
WVFI's "Speaking of Sports" will feature Scholastic Sports Editor Marty Burns and Ob­server Assistant Sports Editor Marty Strasen. Call 239-6400 from 10-11 to talk about the new football recruits or anything else from the world of sports. -The Observer 
The Blue Line Club will sponsor a trip to Notre Dame's hockey series against Michigan-Dearborn this weekend. Buses leave Friday, Feb. 19, at 2 p.m. and return Sunday at 1 a.m. (after the game). Cost is $30 for bus transportation, and $65 per room at the Hyatt Regency. -The Observer 
NUL scores from Monday: Philadelphia edged Hartford 5-4 in OT, the Rangers beat Montreal 3-1 and Detroit topped Los Angeles 6-1. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Tile a...-Notre Dame office, located on the third Hoof of LaFortune Stu· dent Centw, -=cepta clualfled ~stng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtdlly. n.a...-Saint ~office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, -=cepts claalfledtl from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtdlly. Deedllne for next-day claaalfledsls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five 
~perRy. 
LOST: IRISH WALKING HAT, SANDY  SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL:  JEN BONVECCHIO  Things We Won't Miss Ill:  
NOTICES  BROWN TWEED. 284-5100.  CALL  HEATHER  TICKETS  It's QUALITY, not quantityll  JEN BONVECCHIO YOUR HUSBAND IS LOOKING  FOR  "How was your SYR?"  
Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs for the best price on Sony D&DD 3.5" diskettes for your Macintosh r olher computer. Call 283·21 01 and help support the Macin· tosh Users Group! Ouerenteed for life MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  LOST: One grayMember's Only Glove between Hurley and Grace. Call 2382 •• MONEY •• MONEY •• MONEY • A REWARD for the wonderful person who will return to me a rhinestone bracelet lost in the South Dining Hall at the Mardi Gras Dance. PLEASE return this ·it belonged to my Mother and it is quite important to me. Call Martha at 239·6116 or 239-5913 FOUND: Pair of eyeglasses between  HEY Y'ALL, 4 BEAUTIFUL BLONDES FROM VANDERBILT ARE DESPERATELY SEEKING VANDY NO BBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL PAT 2n­2151 PLANE TICKET 4 SALE S.BEND TO CHICAGO ¢ CHICAGO TO BUR­LINGTON,VT £2153 I NEED 3 MARQUETTE TIXI PLEASE CALL MARY AT 37601  R.Bud You like men and I like beer Dear Kateso-Bateso, Hope your 16th is as sweet as you are. Happy Birthday!! We hope you like your new car from Mom. (Oops, we weren't supposed to tell). Tom Doyle, Happy (belated) Valentine's Dayl Thanx for a truly different SYR. No more 1:30 a.m. phone calls-· I promise. Good luck today. Trouble... WELL, THE REVIEWS ARE IN:  YOU! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LORI SHEMANSKI LOVE, MOM & DAD APARTHEID DISCUSSION WED. 7:30 PM ZAHM BASEMENT APARTHEID DISCUSSION TAKE TIME OUT EVERYONE WELCOME WED ZAHM 7:30 ....,.................ELEcTioNs.....................  B.S. I want your sour cream. Love, Potato-Heed Patty, Happy Birthday from your friendly nieghborhood red cross worker Matt Tarah, Happy Birthday, even though this parsonal is a day late, and thanks for being my date to our SYR. I really had a good time. Matt.  
P.E. and D-2 parking lot. Call Lisa at  'STUNNING! TWO THUMBS UP!' - ELECTIONS  
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2n­7406 TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. MY GIRLFRIEND needs a ride from NO to Pittsburgh after JPW. If your parents would be able lo give her a ride 1o the Pittsburgh area, please csll Kevin at 239-5303. Thanks. AN TOSTAL IS COMING! WATCH THIS SPACE Ill LOST/FOUND I Lost Lost Black and Gold Seiko watch. If found csll Rob at £2506. Reward Reward FOUND: SMC 88 class ring at 733 St. Louis St. Sat. 2-7 am during parformance of Robert Duvall and Napalm Surfers. Call Dirt 288-3421. FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES NEAR ZAHM HALL. CALL JEN AT 3193 TO CLAIM. LOST: An all black Nikon FA Camera wl flash and motor drive: To the parson who borrowed rt, the camera has tremendous sentimental value but cen be replaced -lhe film inside, however, is of the Cogswell Family's visit and therefore priceless. If you have an attack ol con­science send the film lo Mark Dillon 203 E. Navarre St. South Bend. Any informa­tion call 288-8673. Thanks. LOST: Gold ring with blue stone, Has­burgh Library last week. Call Beth 81288­6631. REWARD.  4276 to claim. ................................................................ \ PERSONALS FOR RENT I OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 2n­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 3097, 683-8889. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-095&255­SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL 3684 THEY'RE BACK!II EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288­Lalit Chance For Spring Break '8810955 Limited apace remains at South Padre, North Pedra, Daytona Beech, Fort Wel­ton Beech end Steamboat, Colorado for skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchue ToureWANTED toll free 1-800-321-5911 for reserve­tiona and Information TODAY. Credit card• accepted.WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE for Mac ** KATHRYN HUMM •• Tomorrow -­512e with no SCSI port. Call 239-5n2 Comp Hell II You'll do Greetand leave a message for Matt. EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK!Need Ride 1o I.U. any weekend JPW needs student workers. Call 239­Will share expanses. Good Conversa­7814 for more info/tionalist Call 11 08 evenings. INTERESTED IN MAKING A UTILE EX­TRA CASH ON THE WEEKENDS? Be a photographer for Irish Photos and takeOVERSEAS JOBS •. Summer, yr.round. pictures at SYR's and formals. All youEurope,S.Amer.,Auatrelle,Aala. All need is a 35mm camera and a desire tofields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtaee­meet people. CALL PAT AT 2318.lng.Fraa Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mer,CA 92625. Hey wierdos: the Progressive Music Club of Notre Dame (under new management)Ride needed to Detrort area Jan. 19. Will announces bus trip to Nothwestem forpay well. Call Mary 3803 Echo and the Bunnymen concert 39. In­fo: Greg x1182; Zep x1409. RIDE WANTED TO DETROIT FOR 2-18 TIL 2·21 CALL JOE AT 2056 Yea, but will the Almighty Roundball God kiss you goodnight?NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS OH. THIS FRI. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL Give me a PKATHY 4205. HELPI I need ride or riders to Purdue Susie Herald··aDoes the Brown Derby21!9. Call Laurie 4011. come before or after lhe Belmont Stakes?lll  ROGER EBERT 'I'D GIVE THEM MORE THAN TWO THUMBS UP, BUT I ONLY HAVE TWO HANDS. EXCELLENT PER­FORMANCE!' -GENE SISKEL 'THEY'RE SUPER-FREAKY!' -RICK JAMES 'HOUSEQUAKEI DAMNI THEY A 2 GOOD 4 Ul SHUT UP ALREADY AND LISTEN 2 THE BAND!' -PRINCE THEY COULD ONLY BE TALKING ABOUT ONE BAND. THE GROOVE FALL INTO THE GROOVE TUES. FEB 23 AND WED. FEB 24 AT CHIPS A GROOVE THIS FUNKY IS ON THE RUN ... M&M ITS YOUR BIRTHDAYIII HAVE FUN BUT REMEMBER IT IS A SCHOOL NIGHT. HAPPY BIRTHDAY YOUR TELEPHONE FRIEND ATIENTlON PETE ''THE WIMP" ABOWD STOP CRUCIFYING THE N.D. FIGHT SONG WITH YOUR MUZAK RENDITION! FROM THE COMMITIEE TO BAN THE WHIP COMET, Thanks for a great Valentine's weekend I I guess a little romance never hurt anyone. Love, CUPID To the "old man" who enjoys thinking of fishnets, teddies, and SNAPS: for your 2 cents -wine, candlelight, soft music, no one knocking on the door... Wallbanger: I gave you an expensive whistle and some greal bubblegum. I even let you lick my neck, you kinkmonster, and what do I get in return? DATE RAPED!II Thanx for a skirt rippin' good time. Flipper To my secret admirer, Please reveal yourse~! MV  ELECTIONS CAST YOUR VOTE TODAY: MARK CHAPMAN FOR STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 3 ELECT MARK CHAPMAN STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 3 PUT THIS DOWN, ELECTIONS ARE TODAY! GO VOTE FOR MARK CHAP­MAN STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 3 ROB MERKLE YOU ARE THE BESTI WE LOVE YOU... KATHRYN AND DIANE TONIGHT AT CHIPS TONIGHT AT CHIPS THE STONEHENGE ROMEOS COME DANCE AND PARTY WITH THE STONEHENGE ROMEOS TONIGHT AT CHIPS THE STONEHENGE ROMEOS CHIPS TONITE ATTf!.NT/ON JUNIOR rDRMf!.R HOWARD Rl!.S/Df!.NTS: 11 looks now like the JPW party Is on for Saturday night Feb. 20th, alter the dinner (around 9:JO or so) In room 219 In the Rock. 11 will last for about lwo hours or so. We will be asking for a slight donation at the door, since, as If you need to be told this, we don't have a hall to cover the extra costs. If you have any questions or problems, call Kevin at J609 or Kent at 289-6614. Make sure you tell any Howard guys you see about It too, In case they don't see this ad, We'll also try to send out letters. See you there. Vic, Thanks for a great time SAT. night! Old J. Taylor strikes again. Can'fwait for the pictures. T.P. FRI. night (wear a bathrobe?) -Q. T. xxy KLEINFEL TEAS UNITE xxy Fat Tuesday Fest11 pm 148 Farley GOOD LUCK TO SWIM TEAMS AT CONFERENCEIIII  A typical Dina remark: "I forgot I like him..." -T. Fr. Edward Malloy, President of the University, will celebrate Mass on Ash Wednesday, February 17, at 5:00pm In the 'Log Chapel' for theology rnejore and minora. YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam&StMary's College P.O. Box 194, Noire Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. Vote Doyle-Paase Vote Doyle-Paese Vote for Tom Doyle and Mike Paese TODAY 111111 Pumpkin :Sorry that we couldn't do lunch yesterday. How about Thursday? I hope you figure everything out; I know what your going through. Remember -no pres­sure, right ? I be leaf in you ..... ! DING-HAPPY BIRTHDAY! You sure are getting old. Missed ya on Valentine's Day. All sends his best. -KMH MARDI GRAS NIGHT TONIGHT at the Elk's Lodge Cash Bara, D.J. FREE shuttle bus leaves every half hour from LeMans and Main Circle Tickets at door, $3.00 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ KEENAN REBUTIAL TRYOUTS Wed. and Thurs. Llbrery Audltortum Cell x1288 or x1314 SSSSSSSSSSSSSS We need your actl You need our money! KEENAN REBUTIAL KEENAN REBUTIAL KEENAN REBUTIAL KEENAN REBUTIAL  
IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN  FOR SALE  Words of the wise from our own CP: " ... The more you do it, the easier you get!..."  We're Not Blowing Smoke: The Choice Is Coke  ooh ow ooh,ooh ow oh Duke,there's a keg at the end of your  TRYOUTS Wed. and Thurs. Llbrery Auditorium Cell x1288 or x1314  
LAFORTUNE. LOST BROWN LEATHER JACKET AT BRIDGET$ WED. NIGHT. IT ALSO HAS MY CHECKBOOK AND TAX FORMS IN  Ia It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government. Get the facta todeyl Cell 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316.  Don't worry, KC--you won't stay quote free for long! -fashions of a class act·  Allante Remember the chips  The Bear  milellll rally around Touchdown at Conference AAJAX-SPROUT AAJAX-SPUDS  ssssssssssssssssss Be funl Be rfchl Do the Keenan Rebuttal!  
IT. PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTUNE OR CALL JOE AT 232-7602. THIS JACKET AND ITS CONTENTS ARE QUITE IMPOR­TANT TO ME SO PLEASE HELP ME OUT. I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­INGIII!III wrthout my brown leather gloves I left in 120 O'Shag on that cold Wed­nesday 10th 2:00pm. H found, please call £1763 soonl/11111111111 Found playing basketball Thursday eve­ning: Mens basketball jersey -call JC at 1209 to claim.  SLEEPER LOVESEAT Blue contemporary design like new con­dillon $250 CALL 284-4531 or 287-7023 HELP I CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN MON. MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTIABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. BARGAinll AT-Ticket CHIC·MIAMI,any time,$179,£234 4948  FASHION SAVVY 8 pm CENTURY CENTER FEB. 20 -designer faahlona lor men & women, live band, party-free trenaportatlon Coke IsH Coke: The Choice of a New Generation  IRISH SWIMMERS GOOD LUCK IN EVANSVILLE!! WIN IT ALL. MENMEN­MENMEN HUMINA HUMINA HUMINA SWIM· MERS WIN THE MCC!III STUDMUFFIN O'GARA STUDMUFFIN O'GARA STUDMUFFlN O'GARA HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE LAST OF THE RED HOT-I MEAN, PINK AND SQUISHY ICE CREAM LICKERSIII LOOKING FORWARD TO THE BAC­CHANT FESTlVITlESIIII  AAJAX·SWAN AAJAX-FOX AAJAX­PLUG AAJAX-FELD SWIM, FRESH· MEN, SWIM..SWIM LIKE THE WIND TOM PENN..Conference . champ 50,100,200 freesII What's Important Is You We went from the Orient lo N. Cal. to CORK, Ireland in the same evening I had a good time, where are we going next? St. Edward's Hall movie night LaBamba Tues., Feb. 16 at the St. Ed's first floor lounge  WIL LEONARD, Thanks for being there. Thanks for lis· tening. Kara Michele Roig, Glad you're back. Kara R.J.T. 1.) I wea at O.D'a party. 2.) Obviously not an undergred. 3.) One who knows the trua meaning of having • good 1111111. Ia thllt specific enough?  


Tuesday, February 16, 1988 The Observer page 11 
'll__ 
AP Photo 
Michael Smith and the Brigham Young Cougars maintained their spot In the top 10 In this week's Associated Press Top 20. Details of the poll appear on page 10. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS 
If you're a Math, Engineering, Physics, or Chemistry major & your GPA is 3.014.0 (or better), the Navy would like to give you: 
• 
$1,100 a month until graduation 

• 
Paid graduate-level training 


A Navy Engineering representative will be on campus 
Fcbru~ry 17 & iC 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. toll-free: 1-800-221-5932 
NAVY OFFICER. • LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 for Building Improvement Fund) 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE ClVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS, WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: 284-9190 
CompuServe is Opening Doors at Noire Dame 
Open House: Thursday, February 
'18, 1988 Alumni Room, Morris Inn 5:30 -7:00 p.m. 
Come on in-take a look at (y)our Future. 
As the perrentage ofpem>nal computers on deskt:op; in bl.lSines<!es and hom~ 
escalates, more doors open for you at CompuSene. FORI'UNE 500 com~es,. 
gowmment agencies, leading inwstment banking finns ~ ~orward-~ J?­
II 
dividuals depend on us for computer-to-computer commumca~ons and information delivery. CompuSene is leading the information age, pioneenng technology and its application in business and home environments. 
Marketing 'Ihrinee Program Marketing 'frainees attend a summer program .at Co~p~ne's corpomte head­
quarters beforejoining one of30 branch offices m ma.JOr crti~ ~~ co.untry. CompuSene's Marketing 'frainee Program provides extensl': instruction m the information industry, product applications, sales and ~~tegy. Ifyou miss us on campus, inquire about CompuSerw careers m marketing at your 
college plarement office, or send a reswne ta 
CoDlpuSerW 
~tManager PO.Boc~12 
Irish soccer team loses one, ties two 
and 12-1 p.m. Saturday. 
Rates are $3 overnight, $5 for two nights, $6 for three nights and $2 for Saturday noon-5: 30 
p.m. 
There is a $5 late fee for equipment returned after 5:30 

p.m. 
Sunday. 


GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthropol­ogy, art, bilingual edu­cation, folk music and folk dance, history, phonetics, political sci­ence, Spanish langu­age and literature and intensive Spanish. Six­week session. July 4­August 12, 1988. Fully accredited program. Tuition $510. Room and board in Mexican home $540. 
EEO/AA 
Write Guadalajara Summer School 
Education Bldg., Room 225 University of Arizona 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
Regional rivals Indiana and Evansville may have been at the St. Louis Budweiser Indoor Invitational last weekend, but the Irish soccer team never got the chance to face them. 
The Irish failed to advance out of their four-team prelimi­nary bracket, losing one game and tying two. 
"It was a nightmare," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "The ball wasn't bouncing our way. We would make one little mistake, and they would score every time." 
NVA announces deadlines, hours 
Special to The Observer · •Floor hockey hall tourney. Feb. 23, from 7-9 p.m. at Burke Team members must reside in Memorial Golf Course. Ski ren­Non-varsity athletics has an­same hall. Game equipment is tals available at the Rockne nounced the following entry required and there is a $15 Golf Shop ($1) and free hot 
deadlines: entry fee. chocolate will be provided.Tomorrow: .Cross country ski tour, to February 24: 
•Singles racquetball. The be held Sunday, Feb. 21. Equip­•Lacrosse tournament. En­
elimination tournament is open ment rentals are available for ter by halls. Roster minimum to anyone on campus. There the three-four hour tour. is 15 players, maximum is 25. are two divisions, intermediate Registration fee is $2. A $25 entry is due with rosters. and advanced, and the tourney There will also be a cross March 5: is limited to the first 64 entries. country moonlighter Tuesday, •Sneaker broomball. A one 
,. .. .. ,.­
day open tournament will be 
~CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY~ Program for Lent 
Badin Hall Chapel on Tuesday nights at 8:00 p.m. Five one-hour sessions during the season of Lent. 
Father AI D'Aionzo, CSC, Director 
Register and Orientation on Tuesday, Feb. 16 at 8:00 p.m.. 
Notre Dame faced former NCAA champion Southern Illinois-Edwardsville Satur­day. The Cougars jumped out in front, but the Irish closed the lead to 3-2 in the fourth quarter. With Dave Augustyn in goal as a sixth attacker, SlU-E tallied a late goal to win 4-2. 
Notre Dame was hoping to get back on the right track against Sangamon State, but the former NAJA champions erased a 3-0 deficit to tie the Irish 3-3. 
The icing on the cake was Sunday's match against former junior college champ Florissant Valley. The Irish held March 5 at the JACC ice 
• 
rink. NVA also has pledge cards available for the Century Club until March 2. Members fill out a pledge card at NVA, pick an aerobic activity, choose 

• 
a goal to work toward and com­plete a log book. Free t-shirts awarded for working out. 


Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­contact sports. Forms and more information are avail­able in the NVA office. 
Students, faculty and staff may rent cross-country ski equipment from NVA, Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, inside the golf pro shop entrance. Check outs are available from 4:30-5:30 p.m. Thursday­Saturday and from 12-1 p.m. Saturday. Check in takes place 4:30-5:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday jumped to a 3-1lead, but Floris­sant Valley answered with three goals to take the lead. A late goal by Bruce "Tiger" McCourt off a restart by John Guignon gave Notre Dame a 4-4 tie. 
. The Irish, whose inexperi­ence indoors did not help their chances at the tournament, will have at least a month off before playing two outdoor scrim­mages. 
"I wish we were playing next weekend so we could get those games out of our system," said Grace. "We just have to realize it was one of those things and then forget about it." 
5000 Arlington Centre Bhd 
Tucson, AZ 85721 
Colwnbus, OH 432W 
(6021 621-4729 or 
'!'here's no time liiiP the present 
621-4720
to start thinking about the future. 
--------------~--­
~-----~~-~~----­
The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1988
page 12 
Distance medley highlights Irish track action 
By MIKE SULLIVAN the distance medley team's im­the 5000 meter race. Markezich finish indicative of the team's As with previous meets, this Sports Writer pressive victory over such covered the distance in a time capability and talent. one included some key perfor­
stong teams as Wisconsin, Mic­of 14:19:00, a time which "Track is not at all like a mances by Irish athletes who 
The Irish men's track team higan, Iowa, and Michigan qualified him for the IC4A sport like basketball where it's finished out of the top six. was on the run again this past State. The team consisted of Championships by twelve strictly wins and losses. We Among those include senior weekend, this time in Cedar sophomore Mike Rogan, fresh­seconds. went into the meet with specific Rick Mulvey, who placed 7th in Falls, Iowa. The Irish com­man Robert Harris, sophomore goals, among them to prepare the 5000 meters. Also perform­peted in the Central Collegiate Mike O'Connor and senior co­Freshman high jumper John Garrett and O'Connor for our ing well was freshman runner Conference Meet against some captain Dan Garrett, running Cole placed in the top six with upcoming meets," proclaimed Kevin Whalen, who turned in a of the fastest competition of the the 800, 400, 1200, and 1600 a jump of 6 feet 10 314 inches. Piane. "We competed as well 1: 55:00 in the 800 meters. indoor season and returned meters, respectively. Sophomore Glenn Watson also as we thought. Our goal was with some "very satisfying" Other impressive individual placed in the top six in the high not to go into the meet to score ''All in all it was a very pleas­results, according to Head Co­performances turned in by the hurdles with a time of 7:52. as many points as we could. If ing meet. We are continuing to ach Joe Piane. Irish included junior Ron The Irish finished in 13th we did, we probably could have improve with every meet," 
The meet was highlighted by Markezich's 4th place finish in place, but in no way was the finished as high as fifth." said Piane. 
Barreda qualifies for Junior World Championships 
Worlds will be held at Notre Dame in April. 
Accompanying Barreda in Cleveland was Irish fresh01an Lynn Kadri, who finished 35th. Because of her age, Kadri will be eligible for two more Junior Olympics, which, according to Auriol, will give her valuable experience. 
For the 01en, there were so01e good perfor01ances and so01e disappoint01ents. In gen­eral, the sabre and epee divi­sions were successful, but the foil division, to quote Head Co­ach Mike DeCicco, "could have been better." 
Freshman sabreman Chris Bauger finished highest among all Irish fencers, placing 13th in his division, co01peting 
7-6, 6-4. Irish doubles tt~a01s have yet to lose a match this year. 
The men's tennis team is definitely on a roll. In the next five 01atches the Irish will put their undefeated record on the line against the likes of Northwestern, Iowa, Miami, Purdue and Colorado. 
"We're 01aking a big ju01p," Bayliss said. "I think we are ready." 
against a total of 107 sabre men. senior in high school Mergen Freshman David Kirby was finished 23rd in the sa01e tourn­close behind in 16th place and ament. sopho01ore Dan Yu finished 20th. Also attending the Junior 
Worlds fro01 the Notre Da01e 
"Our sabremen gave a very fencing squad will be fresh01an good account," said DeCicco. Leszek Nowosielski, who will "The results were excellent." be representing Canada. 
Nowosielski won the junior
In the epee division, fresh­tourna01ent in Canada which Dlan Matt Mergen fenced to assured him a spot in the Junior for01 and finished 14th out of Worlds and also holds a perfect120 co01petitors, just missing 20-0 record this year for Notre the final round. Last year as a Dame. 
JUNIORS 
JPW 
REGISTRATION 

In Lafortune Sorin Room 
Tuesday, 16 February 9:oo a.m.-1o:oo p.m. 
Wednesday, 17 February 9:oo a.m.-1o:oo p.m 
You must bring your student ID card and You must register at this time to attend the weekend events. Tickets will be contained in your registration package along with weekend information. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Over the weekend, the Irish fencers competed with the best young competition across the nation in the Junior Olympic Fencing Championships. The meet, held in Cleveland, was comprised of contestants under 20 years of age, and resulted in one Irish fencer qualifying for the Junior World Champion­ships. 
As was expected, sophomore Anne Barreda earned enough ~ points at the Junior Olympics to qualify for the Junior World Championships to be held •·in April. Barreda, who was practically a shoe-in for the Junior Worlds, finished sixth in 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
6-3,6-2; Paul Daggs defeated Craig Capelli 6-2, 6-2 and senior Sean O'Brien rolled over Mike Ridener 6-4, 6-2. Bayliss said that Daggs played a particu­larly intense 01atch. 
"Paul won by keeping the ball in play in the backcourt and coming into the net the tourna01ent even though she was seeded first. 
"It was a little bit disappoint­ing," said women's head coach Yves Auriol. '1She should have done better. In fact, she almost went out in the first two rounds." 
Barreda, however, managed get the job done. She pulled her­self together and overcame her poor start to earn her sixth place finish. 
In a tournament with the best 110 women fencers from across the nation competing, finishing sixth is 01ore than respectable. 
Barreda will be one of three women who will represent the entire United States, compet­ing against 34 other countries and 450 atheletes. The Junior 
whenever possible," Bayliss said. "He kept the pressure on Capelli for the entire 01atch." 
In doubles action the Irish tea01 of David Kuhlman and Wenger beat Bowers and Siminski, 6-2, 6-2. Pat Walsh and Ron Shashy of Notre Dame edged Eastern Michigan's tea01 of Polito and Ridener 6-2, 4-6, 6-0. Finally, the Irish soph­omore tandem of Arnell Gal­lanosa and Ji01 Kilway out­lasted Dancer and Capelli 3-6, 

Eye Exams
ProfessionalVtsion 
Large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 
20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
South of U.S. 23 1635 N. Ironwood 277-1161 
Tourney 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame's third-seeded doubles team of sophomore Stephanie Tolstedt and fresh­man Ki01 Pacella went unde­feated on Friday and posted a 5-1 record for the weekend. 
But the standout perfor­mance of the weekend may have been turned in by the fourth-seeded pair of freshman Cathy Bradshaw and junior Julie Sullivan. The duo won their first four 01atches before falling to Western Michigan's Steaphanie Schule and Kathy Spray on Sunday. 
"They had an excellent tournament," said Gelfman. "Cathy Bradshaw played with­out a doubt some of the best doubles I've seen. Bradshaw was all over the net and crunch­ing everything, and Julie was an excellent stabilizing factor in setting the pace of the game." 
The Sunday loss by who helped make the first an­nual Eck Doubles Classic a suc­cessful one, mentioning team 01anager Vicki Buth, tourna­ment director Reddy Gustine, assistant coach Mike Owens and Notre Da01e 01en's tennis coach Bob Bayliss, who helped Gelfman set up the tourna01ent draws. 
The tourna01ent served as a dedication to Frank and Bryce Eck for their contributions to Notre Da01e tennis. Frank Eck attended the entire tourna­ment, and the Irish wo01en's tennis team gave the Ecks a mantel clock with an engraved plaque. 

Bradshaw-Illig was the only 
defeat the Irish suffered all 
Ambitious people to be campaign managers for day. Notre Da01e posted a 5-1 

record to cap off a weekend in the Hart and Gephardt campaigns in the Mock 
which Gelfman focused on the 
success of the tea01 rather than Convention.
any particular individual. "I think everyone was an out­
standing contributor," said Gelf01an. "I was particularly pleased with the lower-seeded players getting the chance to 
go into the tournament and do If interested call Steve. x1654 
well." Gelfman also cited the the 

contributions of other people •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
J 

Tuesday, February 16, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Zurbriggen launches quest for five skiing golds 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -Pvrmin Zurbriggen won the first Alpine medal of the Winter Olympics on Monday, using the men's downhill as a first step in his quest for an unprecedented five gold medals in skiing. 
Zurbriggen won the race by a half-second over Swiss team­mate Peter Mueller in a battle of past and present on the slopes, while preventing an Eastern European sweep of medals during the third day of the Games. 
"It was my biggest goal, and I'm so happy," Zurbriggen said. "It was a great feeling." 
Alexei Prokourorov of the So­viet Union won the men's 30­kilometer cross-country skiing race, and Jens Mueller of East Germany won the men's luge in the day's two other medal events. 
The Soviet Union leads the medal standings with five--two gold, two silver and one bronze. East Germany, Czechos­lovakia, Finland and Switzer­land are tied with two apiece. Both of East Germany's medals are gold. 
The United States has yet to win a medal, but that could change Tuesday night in pairs figure skating, where Ameri­can couples stood third and fourth after the short program. 
"We're gonna go out and kill them," said Todd Waggoner, 

who teamed with Gillian Wachsman to finish fourth after the short program. 
In hockey, the United States, a big winner against Austria in its first match, took on Czec­hoslovakia, a first-round upset victim to West Germany, as the B pool teams got back into ac­tion. Two other matches had Norway against West Ger­many and the Soviet Union against Austria. 
Mueller, 30, the best downhil­ler in the world in 1979 and '80 and a silver medalist at the 1984 Sarajevo Games, started first on Mount Allan, where the downhill was postponed from Sunday because of winds that reached 98 mph. 
Skiing in calmer winds with a little fresh snow on the course, Mueller finished in 
2:00.14. Judging by practice times, it didn't look like it would hold up, but it did--until Zurbriggen came down, 15th in the starting order. 
Zurbriggen had better times at every interval--combining his giant slalom genius on the twisting upper section of the course with his deftness in downhill on the flat lower section--to finish in 1:59.63. 
With the slalom, giant slalom and two new Alpine disciplines­--combined and super-giant slalom--still remaining on the schedule, the versatile Zurbriggen has a shot at the Olympic accomplishments of Austrian Toni Sailer and Frenchman Jean-Claude Killy. 
In the days of only three Al­pine medals, Sailer and Killy each scored a clean sweep-­Sailer at the 1956 Cortina Games, Killy in 1968 at Grenoble. It's possible for Zurbriggen. In winning the World Cup overall title last season, Zurbriggen captured the individual titles in downhill, super-G and giant slalom. 
Todays Events: 
All times are eastern standard. 
Ice Hockey 
12:00 p.m. Sweden vs. Poland 
4:00 p.m. Canada vs. Switzerland 8:15p.m. Finland vs. France Figure Skating 8:00p.m. Pairs Free Skating Luge 
12:00 p.m. Ladies 1 & 2 Run Alpine Skiing 
1:30 p.m. Men's Comb. Slalom Curling 
10:30 Round Robin 
ABC Coverage 
8:30 to 11:00 p.m. Pairs Free Skating, Men's Comb. Slalom 
11:30 to 12:00. Highlights of the day's events. 
Franck Piccard, who skied right behind Zurbriggen, won the bronze medal in 2:01.24, be­coming France's first Alpine medal-winner since Killy. The best the United States could do was 26th by 19-year-old A.J. 
THE LEADER IN HIGH PERFORMANCE POLYMER FLOORS, COATINGS, LININGS, AND CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS. 
The Stonhard Difference: 
STATE-OF-THE-ART PRODUCTS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ONE SOURCE OF RESPONSIBILITY 
• 
TRADITION OF QUALITY 

• 
CUSTOMIZED SOLUTIONS 


IIHAR 
SALES ENGINEER 
LAUNCH A CAREER IN TECHNICAL SALES WITH THE WORLD LEADER IN HIGH PERFORMANCE POLYMER FLOORS, COATINGS, LININGS AND CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS. 
Stonhard, Inc. has consistently grown 20% or more each of the last five years and now has immediate openings in its entry-level Sales Engineer Program. This 12-15 month program will fully prepare you for a challenging career in technical sales as a Stonhard Territory Manager. 
Your first 4-6 months will be spent at our suburban Philadelphia headquarters where you will learn our business inside and out by interacting with the following departments: 
• 
MARKETING 

• 
TECHNICAL SERVICE 

• 
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 

• 
PRODUCTION 

• 
SALES ADMINISTRATION 


Nine months as a Field Engineer at one of (15) metropolitan locations will give you the necessary product knowledge and exposure to a wide range of field conditions to effectively interact with our installation teams and customers. A professional, customized selling skills training program will round out your year. 
Upon successful completion of this program, you will join the ranks of our Territory Managers where our established commission-based compensation allows uncapped earnings potential. $45 K THE FIRST YEAR IS AVERAGE! 
This is a unique opportunity to join a dynamic, market-driven company that believes in rewarding hard work, enthusiasm and results. 
We will be looking only for those B.S. Chemical, Civil and Architectural Engineers who have a mature and outgoing personality with a true desire for a sales career. (Individuals with related engineering degrees in conjunction with outstanding interpersonal skills will be considered.) 
If you are a recent college graduate or will be graduating in the coming year and desire more information regarding this career opportunity, contact your campus Placement Office or send your resume in confidence to: PERSONNEL MANAGER, STONHARD, INC., P.O. BOX 308, MAPLE SHADE, NEW JERSEY, 08052. 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Kitt of Rochester, N.Y., who finished in 2: 04.94. Jeff Olson of Bozeman, Mont., was 28th in 2:05.09. 
Four years ago at Sarajevo, the Soviets went 1-2 in the 30­kilometer cross-country race with Nikolai Zimyatov and Aleksandr Zavialov, the famed "Z boys." In a postscript to '84, the Soviets did it in 1988 with the "P.S. boys," Prokourorov and Smirnov. 
Prokourorov won in 1:24:26.3, followed by team­mate Vladimir Smirnov, the early leader who finished finished 8.8 seconds back. Vegard Ulvang of Norway won 
the bronze in 1:25:11.6. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
self in last year's Western Regionals, where he clinched a spot in the NCAA Champion­ships by defeating Schmitz. 
"He really came around; it was a pleasant surprise," said McCann. "Knowing Ron, he set his goals, and he'd be disap­pointed if we didn't expect it of him because he wants us to have confidence in him." 
Mter a fairly slow start in his senior season, Wisniewski has won five of his last six matches to raise his record to 12-6-1. And he is gradually starting to shake his problems with incon­sistency. 
"In the beginning of the season and last year, my coaches and parents would wonder which Ron was going to come to the match--the one who could wrestle well or the one who didn't wrestle so well. 
"I've lost some matches that I shouldn't have, but I'm a little more consistent this year." 
Having movewd from the 150 weight class to 142 classifica­tion this year, Wisniewski looks to be seeded second in the region going into the Regionals. The top two wrestlers at Regionals in each weight class advance to the na­tional championships. 
"If he goes out and wrestle like he can, he should be able to make nationals," says McCann. "He's wrestling with a lot of confidence, which has been a big problem for him in the past." 
Technique, inconsistency, confidence--Wisniewski has spent his entire college career solving problems he had in his past. 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1988 
Men's volleyball dominates club foes 
The Men's Volleyball Club continued its streak The downfall of the week came Thursday when against the good varsity teams." against club teams last week, but still cannot seem the team traveled to Muncie to face the Cardinals, While he admits the varsity schools have an ad­to maintain that consistency when it meets varsity a varsity squad. The Cardinals dominated the Irish vantage in terms of recruiting and exposure, An­squads. 15-8, 15-7, 15-6. derson thinks his squad can be competitive with 
The Irish easily downed three club teams to boost anyone. their record to 14-3, but faltered against ninth­Greg "They get psyched out before the match," An­ranked Ball State in straight games. Notre Dame derson said. "I feel the team can play with any remained atop the conference standings with a per­Guffey varsity team in the Midwest. I have trouble motivat­fect 5-0 mark. ing them that they can play against these teams." 
Notre Dame routed Toledo 15-7, 15-6, 15-5 Monday The Irish rebounded from the loss to the Cardinals 
Club Corner
and came back to down Hope College 15-4, 15-3, with a 15-4, 15-5, 13-15, 15-7 victory over Calvin Col­13-15, 15-4 Tuesday. Those wins, both over club lege Friday. teams, hardly tested the Irish, according to coach "We played extremely well and did the things we Bill Anderson. had to do," Anderson said. "We played with more 
"We dominate the club teams," Anderson said. intensity than we did the night before. You have to "We played extremely well." play at the same level no matter who you play." 

-~­
/"'-.. /'""" 
...._/ .._.,.....
··.­
/ ....._.,. 
• 
-
AP Photo 
Czechoslovakia came from behind to defeat the United States 7-5 In Olympic action In Calgary last night. See story at right 
Peace Corps 
Czechs rally to defeat Americans 7-5 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -The United States blew a 3-0 lead and collapsed under the weight of a final-period barrage in a 7-5 Olympic hockey loss to Czechoslovakia Monday nght. 
The victory kept alive the Czechoslovaks' hopes for a spot in the medals round. They had lost 2-1 to West Germany in their opening game and seemed on the way to another defeat when they rallied for four third-period goals, the winner a short-handed goal with 5 : 29 left. 
The Americans scored on their first three shots against No. 1 goaltender Dominik Hasek in the opening 6:08. But their composure collapsed in the final two periods as they allowed several breakaways. Goaltender Mike Richter played strongly in goal, but was 
On-Campus Interviews 

Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a paycheck. In science, education, agriculture, forestry, home economics, industrial arts and other areas, Peace Corps volunteers are putting their degrees to work where it's needed most while gaining the experience of a lifetime: 
• 
Currently 34 graduate schools across the country reserve scholarships and assistantships specifically for former Peace Corps members. Many graduate schools offer academic credit for Peace Corps service. 

• 
Quality work experience recognized by employers. 

• 
Non-competitive eligibility for U.S. Government jobs. 

• 
Language skills. 

• 
Postponement of educational loans. 

• 
$4,200 completion-of-service allowance. 

• 
Opportunity to travel and to experience new cultures. 

• 
And much more. Contact your Placement Office for an interview appointment today. 


See Our Free Film Wed., Feb. 17th at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Interviews Wed., & Thurs., Feb. 24th & 25th at the Career Placement Office. Interviews at St. Mary's, Fri., Feb. 26th in the Career Development Center 
unable  to  stop  the  Czechos­ are 1-1 behind the Soviet Union  
lovak charge.  and West Germany, both 2-0.  
The  United  States,  which  The top three teams in each  
beat Austria 10-6 in its opener,  pool  advance  to  the  medals  


round. 
Dusan Pasek led the Czech comeback, scoring the tying goal with 7: 25 left, then setting 
will meet the unbeaten Soviets up Igor Liba's game-winner Wednesday night. The with a perfect pass to cap a Americans and Czechoslovaks two-on-one break. 
MEXICAN RESTAURANTE  
DAILY DRINK SPECIALS  
MONDAY 75¢ DRAFT Featuring: Michelob & Miller Lite TUESDAY MARGARITA VILLE $1.00 off all Jumbo Margaritas only $}.95 75 ¢ shots of Cuervo Gold A Jumbo & a shot for only $2.50 WEDNESDAY HOT SHOT SCHNAPPS NIGHT 75 ¢ shots of "Hot Tropical Schnapps" $1.50 Sunburns & Suntans THURSDAY CORONA NIGHT cross the Border for only $1.25 a bottle FRIDAY Molson & Moosehead 2 Canadian favorjtes for only $1.00 a bottle SATURDAY Our Top Shelf Golden Margarita made with Cuervo Gold & Cointreau $1.00 off -Only $2.95 SUNDAY Pitchers of our famous Margaritas for only $4.90  


---------------~------~---­
Tuesday, February 16, 1988 
The Observer page 15 

~************************~ 
~ ~ 
-+c J.. Saturday, March 5 eA ~ ~ _.. at Theodore's ,/) 
I ~ 


~ ~ ~ $200 GRAND PRIZE!!! ~ 
~ ~ ~ (/
********Sponsored by SUB ~ ** 

Interested acts should contact Maura (x2745) or Mark (xl184) by Feb. 19. 

Campus 
Tuesday 
11 a.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Mardi Gras Brunch and Bridge Card Party, University Club. 12 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture, "Is There a Substitute for the Parents' Role in Education?" by Professor James Coleman, University of Chicago, Room 220, Law School Courtroom. 12 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar, Brown Bag, "Gramsci and Mariategui: Ar­chitects of Cultural Politics and Political Culture," by Prof. Joseph Buttigieg, Room 131 Decio Hall. 3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Applications of Analytical and Experimental Mechanics to Composite Materials Research," by Prof. Donald Adams, Director, Composite Materials Research Group, University of Wyoming, Room 303 Cushing Hall. . 3:30p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "An Integer Approach to Solution of Problems in Basic and Applied Sciences," by Prof. B.D. Kulkarni, visiting professor in ND Chemical Engineering Dept., Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Membrane Glucocortoid Receptor's Role in Lymphocytolysis," by Dr. Bahiru Gametchu, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 7 p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Olivet College, Auxiliary Gym. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film series, "Kubelka-Fluxus GroupShartis Program," 66 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m.: C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) Lecture, "Outrageous Acts in Every Day SOO.uction," by Dr. Mary Koss, Kent State Uni­versity, Carroll Auditorium. ·, 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Umberto D," 1952, BW, 89 minutes, directed by Vittorio do Sica, Italy, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Oriental Soup French Dipped Sandwich BBQ Pork Hoagie Cheese Enchilada Veal Parmesan Fettucini Carbonara Roast Turkey Deli Bar 
Broccoli Cheese Rice Casserole 
Comics 
Bloom County 
Pf(!H'ITC t.l~ 1HING5 / WHtrr.' 
~KNOW/ 
I 
~ 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
OH, Y(X/ KNtJII/... THOSe (K;tY 
111170 
PO... 8UTM7T IN FIIJtVT OF 
lim.£tn!NOR. 1HIIVG5 M'llU. 
t/11, IJNC6?5711N/? 
YOIIW
BICJI OTlltt?. ... &1?056 1HIN65 
Y()l) 
11£~
/IE M*K fMIIGINe 
CHK/51!€ 
KNC.W.. IH!N6S? 
fJI?INKtlY 
\ I 
WIM:I IJ(JT 
1HRT 
Bill Watterson 

Goldfish laundry days 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Vault 5 Due 
10 Influence 14 Sword 15 Soloist? 16 Symbol of 
virtue 17 NY harbor 
attraction 20 Shades 21 Leather flask 22 Meadow 
sound 23 Wile 26 Time period 28 Aries sign 31 Croissant 33 Soak 37 Ripen 38 Heathen 40 Kan. town 41 Houston 
attraction 45 Considerate 46 Kingdom 47 Audio receiver 48 Ahchoo 51 Ticket 
throwaway 52 Sec 53 After 55 Plant 57 Bustle 60 Inlets 62 Lily family 
plant 66 Wash., D.C. 
attraction 70 Aria 71 Chopin piece 72 "-girl!" 73 Antelope 74 Was very fond 75 --do-well 
DOWN 1 Witticism 2 Until 3 Intend 4 A Fonda 5 Bravo! 6 Court 7 Data 8 -Bly 9 Complained 
10 Haggard novel ....._..___..___.__ 
©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. Aft Rights Reserved 
11 Cordial 12 Palo ­13 String toy 18 Assumes 
forcefully 19 Produce fruit 24 Detergent 25 Eng. 
composer 27 Restraint 28 Carries clout 29 Encore! 30 Intermediate 32 Adds rum 34 Jotted down 35 After taxes 36 Truman 39 Under In 
poems 42 "-of 54 So much In thieves" music 43 Sherlock 56 Engraving tool find 57 Included 44 Undeveloped 58 Fashion name 

stage 59 The one 49 Nothing and ­50 Banished 61 Dirt 
63 Quote 
64 Crate 
65 Winglike 
67 Mr. Peepers' Wally 
68 Dutch town 
69 Sweater size: abbr. 

Sports 
Tuesday, February 16, 1988 
page 16 
Voce, Rivers enjoy homecoming; Irish face Rutgers 
Irish center Gary Voce, along with teammate and co-captain David Rivers, will be returning home to the New York area tonight to take on Rutgers at the Meadowlands. Dennis Corrigan details the trip home and previews the game above. 
Men stay unbeaten; 
Men top Eastern Michigan 8-1 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team protected its undefeated record on Sunday as it marched over Easten Michigan 8-1. The Irish are now a suprising 5-0; the Hurons fell to 0-1. 
For the Notre Dame team, this has been an unbelievable year. Coach Bob Bayliss himself is shocked at the teams Cinderella-like start. 
"I thought we'd be 3-2 at this point," said Bayliss. "Needless to say this has been a pleas­ant surprise. Now we've got five eonsecutive matches with teams that beat us last year or are better than us on paper. The next week and a half is crucial." 
For the next few weeks the Irish will be un­derdogs, but on Sunday they were the favorites all the way. Senior captain Dan Walsh came from behind to defeat Dean Dancer 4-6, 6-2, 6-4. Walsh is a notoriously slow starter and often drops the first set before bouncing back. 
Freshman Ryan Wenger alsolost a set early but went on to victory over Mike Siminsk-i 6-2, 6-7, 6-2. Bayliss was impressed with Wenger's play. "Ryan had some big shots at key points. He just overpowered Siminski." 
In other singles matches, Dave Reiter trounced Eastern Michigan's Aziz Hoosenally 
see TENNIS, page 12 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -When Notre Dame meets Rut­gers tonight at the Byrne Arena in the Meadowlands (9 p.m., WNDU-AM 1500, WSBT-AM 1060), the game will be almost a secondary attraction. The main focus will be on senior co­captains David Rivers and Gary Voce. 
Rivers, from nearby Jersey City, and Voce, from Queens, N.Y., will be making their final appearances in the New York area as members of the Irish. Both players say they're 
Wisniewski gets consistent 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
With a 22-2-2 record, Olivet hardly can be considered a pus­hover despite its Division III status. 
But after facing three top 20 teams in the last week (Nebraska, Michigan and Ohio State), the Notre Dame wres­tling team likes its chances in tonight's home dual meet with the Comets. Action starts at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC Pit. 
"Olivet can't compete with the last three teams we've played as far as ability," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "It's the kind of meet we can come out and dominate if we come out with any kind of intensity. 
"They won't be used to our type of competition," contin­ued the fourth-year Notre Dame coach. "They shouldn't stay with us if we come out and wrestle. It's all up to us." 
Tonight's match will repre­sent the last home dual meet for the Irish before they host the NCAA Western Regionals on March 4-5, and also will be looking forward to the homecoming. 
"It's going to be a going out thing for me at home," Voce said of the trip. "I will never wear a Notre Dame uniform again. This will be the last time going back, and I just want to enjoy it as much as possible." 
"I'm looking forward to seeing my family," said Rivers, who denied having anything special on his mind when he takes to the floor. "I have a job to do. I can't really pay much attention to what the fans may want. I'll be myself, and it will still be an exciting game." 
the last home dual meet in the collegiate career of 142-pound co-captain Ron Wisniewski. 
If McCann had his choice, Wisniewski would be staying for one more year. 
"He still has a lot to learn," said McCann. "It would be great if he could have been able to sit out a year because he's so young physically.'' 
It's not as if Wisniewski, an NCAA qualifier last year, has disappointed anyone at Notre Dame. In fact, it's the opposite. 
Wisniewski has had to spend all four years trying to adjust to the collegiate brand of wres­tling. 
"He had an extremely poor wrestling background," says McCann. "He didn't come from a good program. His technique was extremely crude, and he had a lot of bad habits." 
Although Wisniewski still managed to record a 23-16 record his freshman season, he admits he was no expert on the finer points of his game. 
"I had the strength and desire to win, but I didn't have any technique whatsoever," 
What may make the contest the Meadowlands, I'll be very between the 3-18 (0-13 in the At­happy." lantic 10) Scarlet Knights and If there was ever a team that the 14-7 Irish may be the fact could put an end to this streak, that Irish head coach Digger it's Rutgers. The Scarlet Phelps and his squads have a Knights are on a streak of their 0-5 record in the Meadowlands, own, having lost a school­including a 74-68 loss to North record 15 games in a row. Carolina in last year's NCAA There has been much specula­East Regional Semifinal. Rut­tion that third-year Head Co­gers beat Notre Dame 61-59 in ach Craig Littlepage, who pre­1983-84 season in, you guessed viously was the head man at it, the Meadowlands. Penn and an assistant at Vir­
"I'm looking forward to a win ginia, will be losing his job in the Meadowlands," said when the season ends. His cur­Rivers, who lost to Duke 81-69 rent record at Rutgers is 19-59. there in his freshman year. Rutgers' leading scorer is 6-5 "We've never won there. If we freshman forward Tom come away with a victory in Savage, a transfer from Vir-
Wisniewski recalls. "It was quite a struggle for me to do moves right. 
''A lot of times I won just by strength, and I didn't think of trying to do moves correctly." 
Wisniewski was able to find success without the correct style in his sophomore year as well, coming just one point short of qualifying for the NCAA Championships. But McCann was trying to raise the stature of Notre Dame's pro­gram by upgrading the schedule. No longer could Wis­niewski rely on strength alone. 
He finished his junior year with a 20-14 record, but he was plagued by inconsistency. A prime example came in the Na­tional Catholic Tournament, where Wisniewski lost to Mar­quette's Jim Schmitz by a 15-0 score. 
"My head was out of the match," Wisniewski said. "I thought I would win. There was no way he was 15 points better than me." 
Wisniewski redeemed him-
see IRISH, page 13 
women 
host Eck tourney 
Doubles Classic a two-way success 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Last weekend's first annual Eck Doubles Classic was a two-way success for the Notre Dame women's tennis team. 
The Irish won 70 percent of their matches in the last two days of the tournament. But that was almost secondary to the way in which Notre Dame handled a tournament that included 115 matches, nine teams and a dedication. 
"It was excellent," said Irish coach Michele Gelfman. "The tournament went extremely smoothly. We had a lot of good people on our support staff." 
Gelfman had no reason to be disappointed with the efforts of her players either. After a relatively slow first day of action, the Irish doubles teams posted a combined 14-6 record on Saturday and Sunday. 
"One of the big problems with hosting a tour­manent like this, especially when the players are going to class during the day, is that it serves as a disturbing factor," said Gelfman. "Some of our players virtually walked from the classroom onto the tennis court. 
''On Saturday and Sunday, all we were con­cerned with was tennis, and it was obvious by our record. " 
see TOURNEY, page 12 

ginia Tech. Savage is averag­ing 11.3 points per ballgame to go along with 4.7 rebounds. His partner on the frontline is Lee Perry. The 6-7 sophomore is averaging 8.2 points and 5.1 boards a contest. 
The Knights will start either Anthony Duckett or Mark Peterson in the pivot. Duckett, a 6-6 junior, averages 10.0 points per game and a team­leading 6.3 rebounds. Peterson, a 6-9 senior, is averaging 3.2 points and 2.3 rebounds. 
The backcourt is made up of 6-5 senior Darren Campbell and 6-3 freshman Cr Carter. 
-~-~­
