IACCENT: Big Blue review 
Tan Time 
~-£:I 
Sunny and warmer today, with a ~ \ high near 85. Fair and warmer 1 tonight, low near 65. J
IVIEWPOINT: Shed that ND apathy 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1988 VOL. XXII, NO. 8 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND sophomore hit near JACC 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN "We all heard this big 'pop'," 
Senior Staff Reporter 
said sophomore Jennifer Ric-
A Notre Dame student bards, who was waiting on line remained in fair condition at for football tickets with Mack­St. Joseph Medical Center Wed-ett near gate 10 of the JACC. nesday night after being hit by "Then we l?oked around and a car on Juniper Road near the saw her behmd the car. There Joyce ACC. was a Jot of bloo_d, an~ her leg 
Lisa Mackett, a sophomore looked really tw1s~ed.. . from Knott Hall was crossing Mackett was m mtens1ve towards the JACC around 2:40 care Wednesday night at St. 
p.m. on Wednesday when a car Josep_h M~dicB:l Cent_e~, and traveling north on Juniper was_ hsted m fa~r cond1bon. struck her, knocking her onto Richards said _later that the front windshield and then Mackett had sustamed a bro­over the car. Mackett then ken right leg and had lost a lot landed on the rear window of of blood but was otherwise in the car shattering it and fell good condition. Eyewitnesses
, ' 
to the ground, according to 
see MACKEn, page 6
eyewitnesses. 
Construction error closes Rolfs pool 
By DAWN MEYER ing the bottom of the pool at News Staff the expansion joints. It is a Freshman Matt Heslin keeps cool between classes by the Clarke Memorial Fountain. lengthy process because the A construction error has left caulk must set for a period of the Olympic-sized pool in Rolfs time in order to dry and be Aquatic Center temporarily cleaned, said Stark. Once the
closed, said Dennis Stark, work is completed, the pool will director of aquatics. take five to six days to fill. Associated Press termining how many babies apparently was an engine prob­Repair work on a problem "At this time it is impossible were aboard, he said. lem," Fred Rollins, Delta's dis­dating back almost three years to project when the caulking 
GRAPEVINE, Texas-A Thirty-four survivors were trict manager for marketing in has delayed the pool's reopen­will be completed," he said. "It Delta Air Lines 727 jetliner hospitalized, Berry said. Sur­Salt Lake City, where the plane ing indefinitely, Stark said. was to have been ready by the burst into flames as it crashed vivors included the captain and was headed. The pool was drained July 21 15th of August." on takeoff Wednesday, killing two other pilots, one of whom A 16-member NTSB panel ar­of this year so repairs could be In the meantime, the pool at 13 people. But 94 survived as was working as a flight en­rived late Wednesday from made, said Stark, who also the Rockne Memorial is being passengers, some cradling in­gineer, he said. Washington to bolster a three­teaches physical education. used by the varsity swim team fants, scrambled out of the "We were just terrified," person team from Fort Worth. "It was a construction prob­and classes usually held at shattered fuselage. said passenger Mona Member Lee Dickinson would lem that should have been done Rolfs. 
Thomason. "We jumped on the not speculate on a cause, but from the beginning," he said. While swimming classes and 
At mid-afternoon, six hours wing, but it looked like we were said the team would remain at Workers wanted to correct the swim team practice will con­after the crash in hazy sunshine jumping into a pit of fire." the scene at least five to seven problems last year, but repairs tinue at the Rockne Memorial, at Dallas-Fort Worth Airport, Investigators had no imme­days. He said it was uncertain at that time would have inter­non-varsity sports such as Delta spokesman Bill Berry in diate indication of the cause of if the aircraft flight data recor­fered with the Special Olym­water aerobics have been dis­Atlanta said 13 fatalities, in­the crash, said Michael Ben­der, known as the "black box," pics held on campus. "If this continued until work at Rolfs is cluding an infant, were con­son, a spokesman for the Na­had been recovered. happened last year, we'd be in completed. firmed but that the numbers of tional Transportation Safety Spokesmen for Boeing and deep trouble." "The only thing we can do is victims could continue to fluc­Board in Washington. for Pratt & Whitney, the man-The repair involves recaulk-sit tight," Stark said. tuate. The count was compl­"Apparently the pilot made icated by the difficulty in de-an attempt to abort .... There see DELTA, page 6 
Walesa calls for end to strikes 
Associated Press the government in the near fu­the strike committes for the ac­ture, according to a statement tual ending of the negotiationGDANSK, Poland-Solidarity read by an aide, Piotr of other postulates and the 
leader Lech W alesa called on Konopka. suspension of the strikes," Poland's striking workers Walesa said he raised the im­Walesa's statement said. Wednesday night to settle their portance of Solidarity in his After giving the Walesa local grievances and end the three-hour meeting with statement, Konopka added: "I country's worst labor unrest in Poland's interior minister, hope that it will appear as a seven years. Gen. Czeslaw Kiszczak-his first historical day." 
Walesa made the appeal with government leaders in six Konopka said Walesa con­hours after meeting with gov­years. ferred with strikers at the idled ernment leaders on the wave "The participants in the dis­Lenin shipyard, where the of strikes that began Aug. 16 cussion recognize that all af­Solidarity leader still works as calling for higher wages and fairs related to trade union an electrician, and the strike the legalization of Solidarity. movement would be discussed there could end very soon. 
He said the national issues of by the round-table," Walesa Strikes are in effect at nine guaranteeing trade union said. other worksites across the pluralism and legalizing his "I propose therefore that we country.outlawed trade federation suspend the current strikes. I Walesa also went to the would be taken up in round­accepted further talks with Imagine this n. a--;Zobn Ury 


table discussions promised by central authorities and turn to see STRIKES, page 6 The Dome as it is reflected in the doors of the Hesburgh Library . 
• 
---------~-­
Thursday, September 1, 1988
page 2 The Observer 
IN BRIEF 
Sister Mary Ewens, O.P., a Sinsinawa Dominican nun and former president of Edgewood College, has been appointed associate director of the University's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholocism by Professor Timothy O'Meara, University provost. She has written a book,"The Role of the Nun in 19th Century America", and has contributed articles on American sisters to a variety of scholarly journals. Her current projects are a book on the oral history of the Sinsinawa Dominicans and a study of nuns and aging. She is also doing research on a community of Eskimo nuns. -The Observer 
Opportunities for college students to obtain volunteer positions in conservation and resource management for the coming winter and spring seasons are now available through the Student Conservation Association's Resource Assistant Program. These positions enable selected students to participate in the work of government and state agencies responsible for the care and management of the country's national parks, forests, wildnerness areas and wildlife refuges. Positions are now available with starting dates between November 1 and April 30. Interested people should send a postcard requesting the "1989 Resource Assistant Program Listing" and an application to the Student Conservation Association, PO Box 550C, Charlestown, NH, 03603. -The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
Football Concession Stand Packets are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. All organizations running concession stands must pick up their packet before Sept. 9 or they will forfeit their stand. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Science QuarttM'Jy is having a 
meeting for all interested writer~ graphic artists, and 
photographers today at 7 p.m. ill 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
Any interested students who cannot make the meeting 
can call Rob at 283-1795 or Jackie at 283-4942. -The Observer 
There will be a rally tonight from 5:00 to 6:30 
p.m. for Indiana Democratic gubernatorial candidate Evan Bayh and Senator Bill Bradley (D-NJ) at SBN Aviation behind the airport. Refreshments wil be served. Bayh will be debating his Republican opponent at Notre Dame on Sept. 7. -The Observer 
Fulbright Grants for study abroad for 
undergraduate seniors during 1989-90 will hold an 
informational meeting Sept. 5 at 4:30p.m. in 120 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. The application deadline is Oct. 5, 
and interviews will take place Oct. 12. -The Observer 
WVFI News Veterans wishing to return for another year of reporting and broadcasting need to be at the scheduling meeting today at 7:00p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The International Student Organization will 
have its first general meeting today at 7:00p.m. in the 
Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune 
Student Center. Plans for this year and committee 
members will be discussed. Refreshments to follow at 
the ISO lounge. -The Observer 
The Bagpipe Band will have a meeting for anyone interested in learning to play the bagpipes today at 7:00 
p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune Student Center. No experience necessary. If you are interested but cannot attend the meeting, please call Paul Harren at 283-3166. 
-The Observer 

Deaign Editor . . . . . .. .. .. . . .. . . . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Loyout ............... Laura Manzi Deaign A..utont .. .. .. ... .. .. . Beth Peterson Accent Loyout ....................... Moira Fox Typeaettera ................... Mark Ridgeway Typiat............. ..... .. .. .. .. .. .... .. Will Zamer ........................................... Andy Schlidt ........................................ Diane Bradley Newa Editor............. Kendra Lee Morrill ND Doy Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey COPII Editor ....................... Missy Weber SMC Doy Editor .. ... .. .. .. .. .. Maura Reidy Sporta COPII Editor................ Pete Skiko 
ne ~er (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam aDd vacation periods. ne~er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame aDd Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writilll ne OMener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
ne ~er is a member of ne Allod8ted rr-. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
Glimpse of world peace viewed at Medjugorje 
I got a glimpse this summer of something I thought I'd never see. I traveled halfway Regisaround the world to a place I had never heard of before. What I discovered there has im­Coccia pressed me more than anything I've seen before 
News Editor 

or since. 


In July, I went to Medjugorje, a small village ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ in central Yugoslavia where six young people claim to have seen the Blessed Virgin every day for the last seven years. 
What's important about this latest set of Marian apparitions is its message. At Lourdes (1858), Mary called for penance. The message at Fatima (1917) was prayer and the conversion of sinners. Mary's message at Medjugorje (pronounced med-you-GOR-ee-a) re­emphasizes these. 
The surprisingly regular apparitions in this impoverished village are the longest ever re­ported. Mary first appeared to four girls and two boys in Medjugorje on June 24, 1981. They claim she has been appearing to them ever since. 
Mary's message here is a simple one, di­rected to all people. When she first spoke to the visionaries, she called herself the Queen of Peace. Mary told them she wants peace in the world and gave them ways we can achieve it. 


Peace, Mary said, is obtained through prayer, penance, conversion and fasting. She told the visionaries that people must give up Two weeks later, six children reported seeing sin and believe God exists. Fasting for peace her on a hill in Medjugorje. every Friday will help foster a spiritual dis­It is clear the message given at Medjugorje cipline. Mary calls us to pray with our hearts is of worldwide importance. But why didn't and to have faith. That's a small price for an Jesus come himself? Because only a mother end to war and strife in the world. could call back her wayward children. It's time 
Medjugorje itself is a living example of the for us to come home to Jesus and to Mary, our 
peace Mary advocates. Each day, the local Spiritual Mother. 
church overflows with thousands of pilgrims Take a good look at the world today. We find 
from all over the world. The villagers, poor as peace in precious few places. Most of us are 
they are, graciously s~are their homes and too busy to pray regularly, and when we do, 
tables with outsiders. it's usually only to ask for something we desire. 
The villagers, most of whom speak only Reports of international terrorist attacks, 
Croatian, communicate with smiles. They are wars between rival nations, injustice and op­
peaceful, prayerful people. It is a deeply pression, almost fail to surprise us. We've be­
moving experience to see people of all come jaded by tragic news. 
nationalities, and even different religious con­Sex and violence have become standard en­
victions, gather together in peace to pray. tertainment fare. Success today is measured in 
Medjugorje showed me peace can be a reality material goods. The "spoils" of success are 
in a world torn by war and violence. It should spoiling our spiritual lives. We are burdened 
surprise no one that Mary, a model of gentle­by material excesses while others struggle to 
ness and peace, calls for peace. For her to visit meet basic needs. It gets in the way of our peace 
us on earth, it must be important. with others and, more importantly, with God. 
Before Mary began appearing in Yugoslavia, Fortunately, the problem has a remedy. We 
Franciscan Father Tomislav Vlasic was con­must obey Mary's command and follow her ex­
cerned with the declining spiritual life in Med­ample. Let's get off the material inside track 
jugorje. One day while he was praying, he to nowhere and on the road to peace. Once at 
received a prophetic vision in which Christ said peace with ourselves and others, we can possess 
to him, "Do not fear, I am sending my mother." the thing that really matters --peace with God. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from::~;:;~;~~1~I~:t:.~:~~::~~~ II 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you danc1ng

II 
on pool lables tomght LaFortune. 
3rd Annual Picnic 
. Saturday, Sept. 3 at 1:00 p.m. 
. at the Campus House-­19525 Pendle Road 277-8471 (Call for rides 
-


or more information) 
• c ( 
. Join us for a relaxed timec~~l...~:.>; of volleyball, basketball, · games & good food. -~~~ . Our staff & students would · love to meet you. . ALL ARE WELCOME! 
-----~------------~­

Thursday, September 1, 1988 
Stage possibly set for Mandela release 
Associated Press the Constantiaberg Clinic in Cape Town, a spokesman for 
JOHANNESBURG, South the prison service, Danie Im­Africa-Jailed black nationalist melman, told the independent Nelson Mandela has been South African Press Associa­moved from a hospital to a tion. private clinic while he "Nelson Mandela's condition recuperates from tuberculosis, has improved to such an extent the government said today. that his further treatment in The move sets the stage for a the Tygerberg Hospital was no possible release from govern­longer necessary," Immelman ment custody. was quoted as saying. 
Mandela, 70, was transferred on Aug. 12 from Pollsmoor The spokesman gave no indi­Prison, to nearby Tygerberg cation of how long would be in Hospital, where he was the clinic or what the conditions diagnosed with the disease. of his stay would be like. 
Mandela, leader of the out­The move appears to confirm lawed African National widespread speculation that Congress, has been in prison Mandela would be placed in a for 26 years. private clinic and gradually 
He has been making a speedy reintroduced to the South recovery from his illness, his African public before the gov­doctors have said, and was ernment decides whether to 
Sophomores wait in line for their football tickets Wed­student tickets sales as the freshman take their turn
moved late Wednesday night to release him outright. 
nesday in front of the ACC. Today wraps up the to stand in line. 
Americans' income rises, but poverty level follows suit 
Associated Press figures dealt with black taled 32.5 million, slightly size of the population is the most effective means of im­Americans, who suffered a sig­higher than the 32.4 million re­growing faster than the num­proving the life of Americans 
WASHINGTON-American nificant increase in poverty. ported for 1986. The poverty ber of people living in poverty. is a strong, productive eco­family income rose by one per­The government defined the rate was 13.5 percent, down Median family income last nomy." cent last year but the number poverty income level as $11,611 from 13.6 percent. year was $30,850, up from of people living in poverty also for a family of four in 1987, up Butz said neither change is $30,534 the year before, the Fitzwater said the increase edged upward slightly, the from $11,203 the previous year. considered statistically signifi­bureau said. in poverty among blacks "ob­
Census Bureau reported Wed­William Butz, the Census cant because they are within The poverty report was likely viously is disappointing," but nesday. Bureau's associate director for the margin of possible error in to generate controversy in the that women were "making the "The economic recovery is demographic programs, said the report, which was based on presidential election campaign greatest gains." leaving many poor Americans the nation's "economic perfor­a sample of about 60,000 because of its bad news for "We think this is a good behind," said Robert mance, in terms of income and households across the country. blacks. report," Fitzwater said. "It Greenstein of the Center on poverty, has been mixed" as It is possible for the poverty President Reagan's spokes­documents a decrease in 
man, Marlin Fitzwater, said in poverty, a continuing rising in­
Budget and Policy Priorities, a usual. private research group. The number of Americans rate to decline even when more California that the report pro­come and reflects a growing, He said the most disturbing living in poverty last year to-people are poor because the vides "further evidence that strong economy." 



11 designed its advanced scientific calculators to help cut science and engineering problems down to size. 
It takes more than an ordinary calculator to help make an extra­ordinary future scientist or engineer. 

IH<XX>7 


ews. 
The Tl-65 Technical Analystn.4 Offers all the built-in functions ofthe 
11-60, plus a stopwatch 
/timer, eight physical con­
stants, decision program­
ming (if... then) capabilities 
and 100 programming steps 
for repetitive calculations. 
The TI-60 Advanced 
Scientific Features such built­
in functions as hexadecimal 
I octal coversions, integration 
using Simpson's rule, statistics 
(including linear regression), 

trend line analysis and metric to The Tl-95 PROCALCTM Our most powerful, top-of-the-line 
English conversions. There are advanced scientific features BK RAM and a full range ofscientific, 
also 84 programrni ng steps for mathematical and statistical functions. It uses redefinable function 
repetitive calculations. keys to provide easy access to 200+ functions with menu-like win­dows and has a flexible file management system to conveniently store programs and data. The 11-95 offers optional accessories such 
as Solid State SoftwareTM cartridges for Mathematics, Statistics, and  
Chemical Engineering, and 8K Constant MemoryTM cartridge, a  
portable printer and a cassette interface.  
11's advanced scientific calcula­ keys and simple keyboard layouts.  
tors-the 11-60, 11-65 and the  This helps you concentrate on real  
11-95 PROCALC-were designed  problem solving, instead of solving  
with all the right scientific  the mysteries of a complex  
mathematical and statistical func-.,.  calculator.  
tions you'll need to get ahead in  With all the demands your ad­ 
school and in your career. These powerful calculators were carefully created to be easy to use. They feature large, color-coded  vanced courses place on you, you need the help of an advanced scientific calculator from 11. Copvriaht © 1968 TI  TEXAS~ INSTRUMENTS  
n.4 Tradcmark o(Tn111 lnottummrolncorporercd  

• 
~-­
Thursday, September 1, 1988
page 4 The Observer 


Featuring one of the hottest, most talented bands on camous: 
9lllirn (fuCOORlffi 
Doors open at 9:00 PM 
Come early. Space is limited. 
Don't miss this campus 
sensation! 


Campus D.J.'s Kris Murphy and John Staunton will be playing your favorite tunes.· Bring old friends, make new ones. Great prize give-aways all night long. Open 9:00 -2:00 AM. 
. -..;<....... 
"\!,
..... 
~··.

2nd Floor LaFortune 

Thursday, September 1 , 1988 
The Observer 

Afghan cosmonaut joins Soviet cosmonauts on space station 
Associated Press 
leagues entered the space 

MOSCOW-An Afghan cos-station and met with the two monaut who has flown combat cosmonauts already on board. missions against rebels in his Vladimir Titov and Musa country arrived with two Manarov already have spent Soviets at a manned space sta-eight months in space and hope tion Wednesday and appealed to break the 326-day space en-for peace in his homeland. durance record in December. 
That record was set by Soviet 
cosmonaut Yuri Romanenko, 

State-run television trans­
who returned to Earth on Dec. mitted live as the Afghan cos­29. monaut and his two Soviet col-Afghan Abdul Ahad Mob-
Thousands flee flood; death toll rises 
Associated Press 
DHAKA, Bangladesh Thousands of people poured into the center of the capital Wednesday as the Buriganga River flooded low-lying neigh­borhoods and left one-fourth of the city under water. 
President Hussain Muhammed Ershad issued an international appeal for food, helicopters and boats after touring flooded areas in the countryside, where people were throwing their dead into swirling waters because there was no dry land for burial. At least 56 people died Wednesday as rivers across Bangladesh continued to surge over their banks, the independent news­paper Sangbad reported. Most died when boats sank or houses collapsed, but some were killed when they were bitten by snakes unseen in the water. 
Dhaka newspapers said 592 have died since June, when the annual rainy season began. Er­shad said the official toll was 250, but the government's count is generally considered low. 
"We need food grains, 
.
mand, m a message addressea to his countrymen from the So­viet space station Mir, which means "peace," said violence could not be seen from outer space. 
"I would like to believe that such will be the situation on the land inhabited by my brothers and sisters, on the land of our fathers and mothers who have suffered so much during the years of the war," he said 
helicopters and river craft from our friends for tackling the flood," Ershad told reporters. "Everywhere I have gone people have asked for drinking water." 
In Dhaka, residents stocked food, anticipating that floods would force markets to close. 
At Victoria Park in the oldest part of Dhaka, about 3,000 people camped out with the few possessions they rescued from their flooded homes. 
. : -~*"''· 
~---~~~­

The Observer I Zoltan Ury Junior J.J. Ryan of Keenan Hall munches while waiting for his Japanese 
An apple a day. . . 
class to start. 

_..-,~ 
.---./ 
• 


---------------~;_____ ® 
The American Express" Card can play astarring role virtually anywhere you shop, from TUlsa to Thailand. Whether you're buying a 1V or aT-shirt. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about eVel)1hing you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. 
College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. Whether vou're afreshman. senior 
or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or caiii-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. 
The American Express Carel. Don't Leave School Without It~M 
II 
TRAVEL 
RELATED 

• SERVICES 
Governor blasts Bayh commercial 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Republi­can Gov. Robert Orr charged Wednesday that a television commercial mentioning Dem­ocratic gubernatorial nominee Evan Bayh's role in the debate over license branch reform is "untrue, misleading and offen­sive" and should be withdrawn. 
Bayh rejected the governor's request, argued the advertise­ment doesn't exaggerate his role in the license branch debate and claimed Orr was simply trying to help elect GOP Lt. Gov. John Mutz as Orr's suc­cessor. 
At a hastily arranged news conference, Orr blasted Bayh, stopping just short of calling the Democrat a liar. Orr said he led the movement to reform the state's politically con­trolled license branch system, and Bayh played no part in the reform. 
"He is implying by what he says that he has been in the leadership role in license branch reform," said Orr, who is barred by law from seeking a third straight term. "He has never been at the forefront or even involved in license branch reform. I have." 
Orr sent a three-page letter to Bayh demanding an apology and urging him to withdraw the ads. 
"To suggest that you are re­sponsible for reform when clearly you are not is simply wrong," Orr wrote. Asked at the news conference if he was calling Bayh a liar, Orr said he doesn't use that word and would leave it to Hoosier citizens to decide if it applies. 
Bayh responded quickly by defending the accuracy of the advertisement's claim and charging partisanship had caused Orr to misinterpret the commercial. 
"The governor is an honorable man . . . but he's doing all he can to help my op­ponent win the election," Bayh said. 

The Observer I Zoltan Ury
Time to relax 
A. student naps in the sun in front of Cushing Hall. 
Delta 
continued from page 1 
ufacturer of the plane's three engines, said they would also send investigators. 
Fire and rescue crews quickly reached the wreckage in a level field about 1,000 feet beyond the end of the runway. It was at the opposite end of the airport from the site of the crash of a Delta Lockheed L­1011 on Aug. 2, 1985, in which 137 people died. 
"We didn't make it 50 feet in the air. We skidded and then the engine exoloded." said pas­
senger Jim Hammock of Gar-
Strikes 
continued from page 1 
Roman Catholic episcopate in Warsaw where he conferred with advisers and church offi­cials for two hours after his talks with Kiszczak. In Roman Catholic Poland, the Church is a power rivaling the govern­ment. 
Afterward, he said: "I am an optimist." 
He then stepped into a car that took him and Solidarity ad­viser Tadeusz Mazowiecki from the capital to the Gdansk shipyard where Walesa founded the union in the labor turmoil of 1980. 
Mackett 
continued from page 1 
said that Mackett remained conscious after the accident. 
Mackett had walked across Juniper Road to purchase ice cream from a small ice cream truck, Richards said. Mackett was struck when returning to the line for sophomore football tickets. 
"A lot of students ran over to see what had happened," said Richards. "One of them got a 
checked to see if she was breathing O.K.. We heard sirens almost right away.~' 
The car, a grey Porsche, was driven by a Mishawaka resi­dent. "Initial indications are that speed was not a contribu­ting factor in the accident," said Assistant Director of Se­curity Phillip Johnson. Neither land. "There was pan­demonium. People were jumping on the plane's wing and burning themselves on it because it was so red hot. We got out of the way fast because we thought it was going to ex­plode." 
Penn Waugh, a Dallas attor­ney who was on the flight, told reporters the plane "never got in the air." 
"You heard the thing crumple so you knew you were going to crash the whole time," said Waugh, who was uni­
njured. "You were just looking for a way to get out of the plane. You're hoping you weren't going to die." 
In Washington, the State De­partment called the meeting a "welcome and significant step forward." It expressed hope the Communist authorities are prepared to work with Wales a and other leaders "widely ad­mired and trusted by the Polish people." 
Meetings between Walesa and ranking Polish officials last his intern-




SOFT 

ment in 1982. Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski's government im­posed martial law in December 1981 to suppress Solidarity, the first free union in the Soviet bloc, and outlawed it in 1982. 
The current round of labor trouble began two weeks ago and at one point idled 20 plants and mines employing 100,000
.. 

blanket and some people lt--------------------------1 


CONTACT LENSES 
•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 

Contact Lenses 
Dally Wear: +7.00 to -12.00 
Extended Wear: plano to -6.00 

Most of those hospitalized suffered burns, cuts or broken bones. Bill Whitman, a spokes­man for Harris Methodist­
H.E.B. hospital in Bedford, said 64 survivors were brought to the hospital, of whom 19 were admitted. 
All those admitted were in satisfactory to stable condi­tion, and the most serious cases involved smoke inhalation, Whitman said. 
Flight 1141 originated in Jackson, Miss., and was taking off for Salt Lake City when it went down at 9:03a.m. 
•Tinted 
Contact Lenses 


Dally or 
Extended Wear 
Softmatc B or 2 different colors 
Bausch & Lomb 

Eye exam required at time of purchase. No other discounts, previous ofders or sale ttems apply. Ltmited ttme offer. 
Thursday, September 1 , 1988 

Study says 1 in 3 inherit cancer gene 
Associated Press 

BOSTON-A gene inherited by a third of all white Americans may be responsible for most cancer of the colon and rectum, and a search is on to pinpoint this inborn cancer trigger, researchers say. 
The study, to be published today, suggests one gene-or perhaps several-that are pres­ent at birth put some people at high risk of developing adenomatous polyps. Colon and rectal cancers develop from these growths. 
Researchers who conducted the work at the University of utah say they believe the still­unidentified genetic factor ac­counts for 50 percent to 100 per­cent of all cancer of the colon and rectum, which strikes an estimated 147,000 Americans annually. 
"This paper is of particular importance, because it points to the fact that a single gene may underlie a significant por­tion of all cases of colon can­cer,'' said Dr. Michael Swift of the University of North Carolina. "It gives, in princi­ple, a way of getting to that gene and identifying it." 
Dr. Randall Burt, a co-author of the utah study, said that locating the gene is one of his team's goals. "We think we have a fairly good chance of one day finding the gene or genes," he said. 
Until now, many experts 
believed that inheritance played only a minor role in colon cancer. 
However, inheriting the gene does not mean that one is des­tined to have cancer. Other studies have shown that only about 5 percent of adenomatous polyps go on to become cancerous. The re­searchers believe other genetic factors or diet may play a role in turning the polyps cancerous in people who inherit the gene. 
"We are not saying that genes are the only thing that are responsible for this, but only particular individuals who have inherited the suscep­tibility are at increased risk," said Dr. Lisa Cannon-Albright, the study's principal author. "Then other factors, such as diet, act upon those people to transform polyps into colo­rectal cancer." 
In another report published with the study in the New En­gland Journal of Medicine, Dr. Bert Vogelstein and others from Johns Hopkins University say that a series of four or five genetic mutations and dele­tions are necessary for colon or rectal cancer to occur. Just how the two discoveries fit together is still unclear, but Vogelstein said they don't necessarily con­tradict each other. 
The American Cancer Soci­ety recommends that people over age 50 have stool tests an­nually for signs of cancer. 

alcohol nor d · "Our eyewearprices are 

rugs were m-the lowest tn fndiana, and 1111 E Ireland Road 
volved, Johnson added. lit ts 

Johnson also said that no ~::J!~C:W.~hat's a in the Broadmoor Plaza charges will be filed against the promfse from the doctor." 291-4000 driver at this time. -12~-Z-­
"There were a couple of p%. ~~ ~ e:U~. il 
times earlier today that there Hours: Mon 10-6, Tu i & Sat 9-6, Thurs 9-8 were nearly accidents" on the Appointments ava but not required. 

same stretch of Juniper Road, 1'=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;Of;;;fices;;;;;;thro;;;;;;;;;;;In;;;di;;ana;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=.l
Richards said. • 

-~---·-~------· ~~----------~---­
--~--------------~-------------~------~--------~~--~---~ 
September 1 1988 The Observer 



Dukakis attacks Bush; calls him 'election-year convert' 
Associated Press 
Republican George Bush promised action to reduce acid rain on Wednesday and declared ''I am an environmen­talist." Rival Michael Dukakis shot back: "Talk about an election-year convert." 
Seeking to gain the initiative after two weeks of moribund campaigning, the Democratic presidential nominee delivered a broad attack on Bush for a second day, ridiculing his statements on the environment and demanding an explanation of his role in the Iran-Contra debacle. 
Bush, campaigning in Mic­higan, avoided mention of his rival's name--a new course after weeks of calculated at­tacks. But his Republican run­ning mate Dan Quayle picked up the cudgel and denounced Dukakis as a "defeatest liberal." 
The Republicans continued to poke fun at Dukakis's aged snow blower that became a symbol of his frugality at the Democratic convention. 
"His ideas are as old as that 25-year-old snow blower," Quayle said in Baton Rouge, La. 
Dukakis campaign strategists were targeting Quayle, the Indiana senator whose selection stunned even Republican insiders. Dukakis campaign manager Susan Estrich said they would depict his selection as an indication of poor judgment by Bush, and would make that one of the central themes of the fall cam­paign. 
"One issue we are certain to hear more of from Democrats across the board is the selec­tion of Senator Quayle and his record and qualifications," she said at a briefing in Boston. 
Quayle was unbowed by the prospect of two more months of personal attack, saying, "I can stand the heat and I'll stay in the kitchen." 
A new ABC-Washington Post po~l released Wednesday found twice as many voters thought t~e Democratic vice presiden­tial candidate Lloyd Bentsen was more qualified than 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Accounts Receivable Clerk Submit resume by Wed., Sept. 7 The Observer 3rd Floor LaFortune 
For further Information contact 
Todd Hardiman 
at The Observer (239-5303) 

r---------------------------~
I 

: Explore the life and times : of the Amish at historic 
:AMISHA ~ 
Nappanee, Indiana 

I Tht>t'e's so much for you to see and do; 
r 
"~·~ L ' f). " 
·-Fu·nous •.."!'~,ers mner -liul & Breakfasr Lod1,~ng -· T~.e House und tmm Trur -CraJi Demonsf'Tcltlons -1-br~edrau'll Buw Rick -Live Musical T.leil!eT 

I' 1 Clip this ad and save $5 per party, $1/person on Amish r\crcs 1 "Total Experience" Coupon! (Includes House and Fann Tour, Buggy Ride, Vocumenwn 
1 Mc"IIL' and Thre>lu,rs' Dinner. Ncx valid t.dch ,Jiher discount< nr <faial offro, exp. 12/31 /88) 
I Open daily, 10-8, Sunday 10-6 Call219/773-4188 
1 

I Amish Acres is 20 mi. S of the lnJ;ar.a To'l RoaJ in Nappanee, IN. Take Exit 
1 

~ _?2~R~. !,? ~· ~ ~·= ~ t~':w:t~ :i:. ______________ 0.J liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii____.___lllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;;; 
ore Dame Knights of Columbus 
NO's Only Fraternity invites you to an OPEN HOUSE with interviews and refreshments on 


We're 
Quayle. But two-thirds said Quayle should remain on the ticket. 
The poll showed the presiden­tial race a statistical dead heat­Dukakis had 48 percent to Bush's 47 percent, within the 3.5-point margin of error of the survey Aug. 24-30 of 1,129 regis­tered, likely voters. 
Bush stood on the Michigan shore of Lake Erie to deliver a speech aimed at separating himself from the Reagan ad­ministration with more activist positions on major environ­mental issues of acid rain, the "greenhouse" effect and pollu­tion of waters. 
"Polluters should pay," the vice president said. "I am an environmentalist, always have been, from my earliest days growing up and then as a con­gressman ... and I always will be." 
Quayle campaigned before students at Louisiana State University and toured an Ex­xon oil refinery. He said he and Bush "vigorously disagree" with Dukakis's opposition to of­fshore oil exploration. 

Only Hart leads Quayle in negative news coverage, according to media study 
Wednesday Aug. 31 7-10 pm Thursday Sept. 1 7-10 pm Monday Sept. 5 7-10 pm Tuesday Sept. 6 7-10 pm 
next door to the bookstore! 
reporters and non-partisan analysts were positive only 33 percent of the time, according to the study. The researchers called that ratio "worse than any candidate received during the primaries aside from Gary Hart's 21 percent positive rating." 
By contrast, they said, Re­publican presidential nominee George Bush had a 49 percent positive rating during the pri­mary season and his Demo­
cratic  counterpart,  Michael  
Dukakis,  had  a  58  percent  
rating.  

The latest study showed that 

Quayle's service in the Indiana National Guard was the most common topic, appearing in 50 of the 93 evening news stories. His background of privilege dominated 19 stories, his rela­tionship to lobbyist Paula Parkinson arose in 13 stories and his good looks came up in 10 stories. 
Quayle was called a conser­vative 24 times in 12 days, the researchers reported. All the Republican primary candi­dates combined were called conservative only 27 times during 18 months of campaign­ing, they said. 
The non-partisan, non-profit Center for Media and Public Affairs, directed by social scientists Robert and Linda Lichter, has been analyzing evening news coverage since the start of the primary season. The results are published in a newsletter called Media Moni­tor 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Republican vice presidential nominee Dan Quayle has received more negative coverage than any na­tional candidate except Gary Hart, according to a study of network evening news pro­grams released Wednesday. 
Researchers from the Center for Media and Public Affairs said ABC, CBS and NBC broad­cast 93 stories on the Indiana senator from Aug. 16, when he was selected, to Aug. 28. The following night there were no stories on him. 

The cumulative airtime was three hours and 22 minutes­"more than one-quarter of all evening news broadcasts for 
nearly  two  weeks  after  his  
nomination,"  said  the  re­ 
searchers.  
Evaluations  of  Quayle  by  

FRES MEN 
R NG ON TAE EAST R E SATUR AY, SEPTEMBER~, 1988 9:ooA.M. TIL~~oN 



L a aa 



Viewpoint
page_8 Thursday, September 1, 1988 
A desperate plea for constructive debate 
So the beginning of the year is finally over. You have made all your class changes (for better or for worse), you have cleared all your boxes out of the hallway, you have called mom andre­quested all the necessities you stupidly left at home. A sense of calm begins to settle upon the campus. And here you sit in the dining hall, munching on some Lucky Charms and reading this drivel. Did you ever wonder who writes these paradigms of journalism? 
Matt Slaughter 
and another thing 

In a word, anyone. You must under­stand that an opinion-editorial page such as the Viewpoint page is by nature a passive entity. Its purpose is to pro­vide a forum in which the members of the Notre Dame community can ex­press their views. Views on what? On anything and everything. The author writes whatever crosses his or her mind; Viewpoint prints it. 
This last statement must be qualified. Department policy, which appeared in the first issue of the year, states "com­mentaries will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible, or submit­ted by anyone mentally unbalanced." My condolences to those of you out there who fall into these categories. Such is life. But do not worry, you're in good company--we have in the past had to turn down God and Satan, among others. The vast majority of this com­munity qualifies, then, to write in to Viewpoint. Congratulations. 
Why, however, have so few people chosen to exercise their First Amend­ment rights thus far this year? A major revision of the campus alcohol policy greeted students returning this fall; The Observer ran a house editorial on the merits (or lack thereof) of the changes. Not one student has written to comment on these developments. Tom Varnum wrote an excellent piece on the sensitive issue of racism in American politics. Again, not letter one. At least we in the Viewpoint de­partment thought these were volatile topics; perhaps not. 
Is the Notre Dame community that apathetic? I don't want to think so. We all have opinions. Let's start expressing them for all to hear, before the Red Menace sweeps in from Canada and we're all drinking vodka. The idea of the university is to enrich the mind; the Viewpoint page is an excellent way to do just that. 
You can write in one of two ways. You can submit a column; these are the longer commentaries which focus in depth on a given issue. Or you can submit a letter to the editor; these are the shorter commentaries which fall under the "P.O. Box Q" heading, and they either respond to a previous column or letter or briefly present a point. You can write as often as you want. You can write in whatever style you want. Choose an interesting topic which deals with a campus or national or international issue such as the club­bing of baby harp seals or the insipid spread of commie-pinko subversive Deadheads in America. Then write about it. 


Don't be bashful. Drop your commen­tary off at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune, or drop it in campus mail. You have bought paper and pencils at the Bookstore by now. 
You have a nice loft to lie on, perhaps a nifty couch some seniors conned you into buying. You have no more excuses. 
Matt Slaughter is a junior economics major and is the Viewpoint editor. 
P.O. Box Q 
Big business dominates media 
Editor's Note: The following is the cor­rect commentary by Mr. Gundersen which was inadvertently omitted from yesterday's paper. 
Dear Editor: 

On August 25 Mr. Kevin Smant in­formed us that "We must ... watch the evening news critically" because the mainstream press puts a liberal "spin" on their stories. He was half right. We do have to watch and read the news carefully--but not because it's liberal. Rather, the opposite is true--the main­stream press is a corporate-dominated entity which must and does support the government's line. 
Corporate domination manifests it­self in many ways. First look at the ownership of the three major networks from which most Americans, unfortun­ately, get their news. They are all corporate-owned and -operated and their first responsibility is to their stockholders, not the American people. Tom Brokaw, Peter Jennings and Dan Rather all recognize this and conse­quently will never say anything that challenges the basic tenants of corpor­ate capitalism. They know that their paychecks and jobs depend upon the profit margins of NBC, ABC and CBS. 
Secondly, advertisers will not patron­ize a publication which doesn't tell its readers how wonderful the corporate structure is, and for anything to be read in large numbers it needs a massive influx of advertiser's money. That is why Time is on the newsstands and The Progressive struggles to keep printing. 
This corporate influence also forces the mainstream press to back the gov­ernment's line. Look at how the main­stream press covers Central America. The governments of El Salvador and Guatemala are moderate and steadily approaching democracy, so we are told. Nicaragua, on the other hand, is an evil, communist nation run by a ruthless dictator, so we are told. Un­beknownst to most of America is that 
year after year El Salvador's and Guatemala's human rights records are far worse than Nicaragua. But because the government supports, legally and illegally, El Salvador, Guatemala and the Contras, the media must and does support their activities. 
Another example of corporate­government propaganda was the main­stream press' reaction to the KAL 700 and the Iranian airbus incidents. Pres­ident Reagan called the Soviet's action ''an act of barbarism (and a) horrifying act of violence" while the Americans committed "a proper defensive ac­tion." Because Reagan said this, the press felt it was their duty to approach the two incidents from that perspective --despite overwhelming evidence which showed both offenses to be accidental. 
Corporations and the government have another advantage which individ­uals and smaller organizations do not have --unlimited financial resources. The public relations budgets of the Air Force compared with those of the American Friends Service and Na­tional Council of the Churches of Christ, two peace oriented groups, presents one illustration of the power of money. The Air Force has 140 newspapers with a combined circulation of 690,000; a magazine, Airman, with a circulation of 125,000; 45,000 headquarters and unit news releases, and 3,200 news confer­ences. American Friends Service spends $500,000 with a staff of 11, has 200 press releases, and 30 press confer­ences. The National Council of the Churches of Christ spends $350,000, has 100 news releases, and 4 press confer­ences. Common sense dictates that the press will print more information from the Air Force. 
Mr. Smant's right when he writes that one can't trust the mainstream press, a fairly radical idea from such a conservative person. I agree. Listen and read with caution when you pick up the paper or touch that dial. You're taking in corporate America and their government's propaganda. 
Craig Gundersen Grace Hall Aug. 30, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"Good humor is one of the best articles of dress one can wear in society." 
William Makepeace Thackeray 
I [)()N'T CARE IAJH!tr IT I HEAR 
Ptff HIM IN TH& 

AMPH&TA'rl/N/35,
COS75.' I WANT &I.-VI~ YOU. 
fJIAmNfJ 5U!Tf3! 
I'M WAY 

~IR! CIJMPU­
7lJ PlAYMY ATLANTIC MR. f, 
ANO TAl<& CARE 
AH&AO 

MfiN75 CF lH/3
C!7YCA51NOS! . . 
OFHIM! fA/HAT 
OF 'rV~ 

CAPTAIN/
/i..VI~ WAN'T5, ~IR. 
\. 
&I-V15 6675.' 
I 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor·in·Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports. Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Atts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 






Accent

page 9 Thursday, September 1, 1988 
Sculptor reveals cultural diversity 
I. Collins, assistant professor  and with society. His work  ders, tape, string, and auto- 
LAURA LINDNER  of art, art history and design,  offers some puissant clues as  mobile bumpers in his art.  
accent writer  believes this is significant  to where humanity is headed.  "The combination of warm  
because "the art department  The poignant symbolism of  plastic and cold steel is in  
has always been sensitive not  his art is rooted in his  keeping with the ever chang- 
Have you ever seen an au­tomobile bumper trans­formed into an aerodynami­cally sleek helmet shaped like  only to minorities, but also to the malefemale ratio when inviting artists to campus." Jackson and his exhibition  subjects--women, races and religion. Jackson's subjects reflect his interests and activities. In  ing dualities of my subject matter," said Jackson. Some of Jackson's works on display at the Isis Gallery  
a raven? If not you must ven­ "Social Comments in Bronze"  the 1960s, he was actively in- through Sept. 16 include  
ture to the Isis Gallery in the  embody the concept of cul­ volved in the campaign to  "Botha I," "Monument to a  
Riley Hall of Art and Design. A master at "tapping the natural energy source," sculptor Preston Jackson has come to Notre Dame as the first in a series of visiting artists to the department of  tural diversity and the level of excellence as a minority artist that Notre Dame is trying to bring to this campus. Both the man and his art reveal rare and in­cisive reactions to the human  enlarge the black student pop­ulation on college campuses. His interest in gender and sexism is tied to his belief that women experience a real difficulty establishing them­selves as artists. His art mir- Deceptive Religion," "Social Symbolism," "Release the Rhino," and "Soweto Landscape." Much of his cur­rent work reflects the evils of apartheid. "Release the Rhino" elicits the freedom of  
art, art history and design, and as the first minority speaker in a number of events sponsored by the Uni­versity as part of The Year of Cultural Diversity. The Year of Cultural Diver­sity was established last year as a response to a minority report submitted to Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy in June 1987. The goal of the year-long program is to heighten the minority aware­ness of all members of the Rob Regovich I The Observer Notre Dame community. Sculptor Preston Jackson The art department was the enlightens the Isla Gallery with first department to plug into this program. Father Austinhis exhibition, "Social Comments  being and his world. Jackson describes his art as mere "reactions to what is, some­times prophetic in nature, but mainly a mirrored image of how I view life." Jackson is a professor of art at Western Illinois University. His art is exhibited at several universities and galleries in-eluding the Isobel Neal ' Gallery Ltd., a gallery exclu­sively for black artists. Jackson's art generally takes the form of a social commentary entwined with cogent political overtones. He deals with human beings' relationships with each other  rors his b~lief that."all human bemgs are m some way connected to one another and are responsible for one another." Jackson traditionally works in bronze. His polyester resin works contain a mixture of steel and metal ingredients, giving a "cold yet beautiful appearance to the art." He take~ a mold of anrthing he considers "aesthetically pleasing or interesting." This includes a rubber mold of food remnants at his studio. The imaginative sculptor has also often used garbage bags, mud, clay, fish blad- Nelson !dandela and depicts a man bemg expelled from an image resembling a womb. This represen.tative imagery "reflects the Inner and outer love and hate for the things I see and have become.." . The art of Jackson ISm­trinsically powerful and, viewed in the context of The Year of Cultural Diversity, his work. brings SOf!lething from which the entrre Notre Dame community can learn. The preciseness of this premier minority artist deserves inspection because of its uniqueness and relevance to our age.  


'E·~·~hantment of 'Big Blue'~ causes conflict for diver 
S 
BRIAN O'GARA of his passion for the sea. friend and rival, Mayol. So accent writer Throughout the movie he the two meet in Geneva for seems distant unless a tete-a-tete which will omewhere between wrapped up in his private eventually consume both of what you know and world with the dolphins, so their lives. what you wish, the far down he cannot see the The back-and-forth publicity poster reads, is surface. Barr's California claiming of new diving "The Big Blue." upbringing and French records is a spectacle of 
As one of the last fron­schooling blend together pride and friendly competi­tiers, the sea has an over­perfectly to produce a Cali­tion, engulfed in a shared whelming power. It cap­fornia surfer-look with a love of the sea. The contest tured French director Luc European mysticism. to see who can go further Besson at the age of eight A business venture into the depths reaches as he took up scuba diving brings Cross, played by dangerous levels. Both men in Mangarani, a Greek Is­Rosanna Arquette, to Peru reach their physical limits. land in the Mediterranean, where she meets Mayol. Both men are told that any but was held at bay until She returns to the fast lane further attempts at a new 
Photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures 
now. Besson's passion for of New York City but can­record could result in 
Jean-Marc Barr Ia tom between hla love of an American
the sea finally comes to not get the mysterious death. Both men are form in this adven­diver out of her mind. Cast begged to stop. Both men bualneuwoman and hla pualon for the ... turetomance, semi­in a role similar to the continue. Both men eventu­biography tale of Jacques bumbling role she played ally will plunge into the Mayol. in "Desperately Seeking water and never come 
Mayol, 61, is a legendary Susan," Cross concocts a back up. free diver who participates business emergency in The magnetism of the in one of the world's most Mayol's next destination, Big Blue swallows up both dangerous sports--one in Sicily, then makes a Molinari and Mayol, men­which men, without the "sacrifice" for the com­tally and physically. But it benefit of scuba breathing pany and makes the trip. victimizes Cross as well. gear, plunge to depths as Cross is a woman in in­She enters the water only far as 300 feet below the fatuation, not in love. Love once during the movie, water's surface. is what Mayol and his trying to talk to Mayol 
Besson delivers Mayol's number-one competitor, about their relationship in love-of-the-sea to his audi­Enzo Molinari, have for the his own world. But it ence in a captivating man­depths of the Big Blue. doesn't work. Nothing does, ner, contrasting it with the Cross is in love with the and at the end of the infatuatory love of his com­mystery of Mayol, but movie, she is crouched at panion, or rather stray­knows so little about him the dock, alone. puppy-brought-home, and his passion that she The footage, above and Joanna Cross. He opens spends most of the movie below the water, is excel­with what could be a frustrated because they lent. The actors fit their portrait of his own grow no closer. roles perfectly, and Besson childhood--a young boy Molinari, the defending delivers his love for the diving into the water near world champion in free sea in a captivating man­Greece, toying with the diving, epitomizes the ner. After much success in dolphins, exploring the Big proud champion who Europe, Besson should Blue. Mayol, played by realizes that his champion­have no feat that "The Big Jean-Marc Barr, grows into ship is not complete unless Blue," his American debut, a man but never grows out he defeats his boyhood will take a dive. 


oage10~~~--~~----------------------~==========~~~------------------------~~~~~~~~~ 
n.'*--'Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Cent•, IICCepts classified IIIMKtlsmg from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n. '*--'Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge CentiiJ, accepts claalflecls from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day clasalfleds Is 3 p.m. All clasalfleds must


Classifieds 

be prapald, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five 
~PIIJday. 

PENN STATE GA'S NEEDED. TOP Nancy2 Clements2 Tho crossing theMI-AM-I in need of tickets. 4 GA's 
I NEED 3 STANFORD GA TICKETSIIIF PRICE PAID. 288-2841 miles frees the eyes to discover sightsneeded(Miami) call Jim at 1647 WILL 
YOU HAVE ANY OR KNOW WHERE I they have never before seen I cannotPAY$$$$ 
~-N_O_TIC__ES~~~~--FO_R_S_A_LE~ CAN GET SOME, PLEASE CALL MIC­MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX WANTED. imagine a treasure more predous than HELLE X 4021 288-2841 good friends who much more to me
TYPING AVAILABLE o;~p;,~;;;;;:·~;;;;;;·;·t:;i~;;·"Q:;.:·~:··a~··» BMW 2002, 72, sunrf, engine reb«--runs 
mean. Luv-vmel

287..ul82 involved. Call Andrea at 3858. i:i·i;;;·~;;;;;;;;d·;~·u-~i·i~ct;;;;;;j;~~~:·L;;~~ 
HELPIII NEED GA TIX FOR MICH.
like new. $4000 219-872-2636 
................................................................ 

Fri. Sept 2. Will pay $$.Call Scott at 1045 STAN, MIA, RICE. PENN ST GAMES For my Snuggle, I miss you XOXOX 
................................................................ I have FOUR Michigan tickets to trade DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT for FOUR Miami tickets. Please call

1980 DATSANSX 200 RUN GOOD CALL CHRIS AT 272-oB82 Bunny 
IF INTERESTED CALL SOME RUST 232 5762 ASAP ~ interested. Call Ksren x2722. 

NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STANFORD MUSH AND T-1-GRR-R, NOT EVEN
MARK xttn ................................................................ ALL NEW GLEE CLUB MEMBERS WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD FOR 2 

iieo···:;:j···si=ieAi<FAs;:···i:ioot:is···Foi:i PURDUE MIAMI OR USC. VERY CLOSEII BONES NEEDS A DATE WITH 
SERIOUS $$$$$$$$$$ IN­HIS DREAM GIRL AND SPOT NEEDSTUXEDO FOR SALE! MICH GA'S CALL MIKE 2238 FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N VOLVED.CALL JORGE • 2065. A NEW PAIR OF SHOES!! P.S. DONT
use'i:i···reXTi300i<S:~ALL···cLAS5est Very C"-p • c.ll Mark Ill 1423 BREAKFAST REGISTRY..•t-219-291­
FORGET THE ROSES AND MAKE THE
7153 Need 2 Mich Tix x2707 Melissa SHOES SIZE 1011
Bought & Sold-Best prices! PAN­HELPII 

DORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. just off Michigan ticket desperately needed! of N.D. Ave. ph.233-2342 TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALEI Miami ticket, too. (student or GA). Fuii"Ni5j:je"i)···H·ouse...s"AFe···Nei(3ii. 
NEED 4 ND-PENN ST. TIXI CALL COL­Thanks to everyone who helped to make Two PRINCE SPECTRUM ceramic rac­PLEASE call Susan at 2722. BORHOOD 255-361w.!88-0955 
LECT DAVE OR KIM, 317-243-9430 my 21st such a special dey! Love,
Who Ia God? is this semester's theme queta ................................................................ 

(DAY), 317-1139-9334 NIGHT. Thereseof our interdenom'U Inter Varsity Christian with cover and pre-lltrung lor $180. SELL ME MICHIGAN TICKETS. CALL HEYIII Need Stanford, Pitt & Mich tix.
Fellowship Bible Study group. Inter­All lntarallted call Mark Ill 1423 MARIE 2n-5294 

Call John at 3410.
ested? Join us tomorrow. 7pm, 309 ................................................................ Grace. Or call Jim (2831621)or Andreas HELP!! NEED THREE MICHIGAN GA'S. 

iliiA"T.-Tii'E.iius·ti·;;;;;,·;;~~;·t:;i;;;;;iti~j;~ 
To whom ~ may concern, now! 4 recent and
(287 4855) for more info. ANYTHING YOU WANT. CALL SAM AT 

On August 22 of this year a box contain­wealthy alums are looking for 4 GA's
PiiAiiev···F>·.A.:···svsreM····;;ai:i···~Ai:e 259-8337. PERSONALS 
ing various books was taken from the400w head, 150w cabinets Excellen« 
i··Neeo.oNe.sruoe·N:r-·oii..iiA..''FoR back area of Farley Hall. The box hascond~ion, AWESOME sound call Paul You name the pries. Call Ssra at x2851 DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT the name Michael Ury on ~-If you mis­
x1847 anytime MICHIGAN CALL BILL AT 1647 

or Mary at 289-9134. IF INTERESTED CALL 
I LOST/FOUND I 

takenly took this or took ~ on purpose p;~;;;;;·4·~;;;;·i);;;;;;·kii.Fo·ii·sA.i.E·j-~i s;,-;;;,··~~~;;;;·"M;~;;ig:~·i;;,··;;·:;;;;,j~ii··;;, please return ~-This box contains many 
MARK xttn of my books needed for my major. If you
LOST: French book (Qu'est qui se refinished, make me an offer call Paul pay big bucks for 2 GA tickets to see his A"iiso.LiiTei:v.'MusraEi1.1iici1:·:nx. 
have any information please call H 3331.
passa?) Put in light green backback out­x1847 anytime team fail miserably Sept. 10. Call his OR I'M IN BIG TROUBLE, HELP! $$$$ THE UNDERGROUND 

No questions will be asked and yourH 4639. THE UNDERGROUND
side bookstore by mistake. Please call ticket sgent at X3489. Ask for Brian. 

cooperation will be greaHy appreciated. 
X2865 

................................................................ THE UNDERGROUND 
................................................................ MACMODEM FOR THE MACINTOSH. i·Nee·o·:r·lci<'ETs."Fo·ii·t:iiciii"GA.N.ANo Now finish reading the rest of the per­
I NEED TICKETSIIIIII THE UNDERGROUND 
sonals. Okay, ao doea everybody elae, buttLOST: Midway Ai~ines tix from DFW to COMP. WITH ALL MAGS. MANY FEA­PURDUE, STUDENT OR GA. CALL 
LGA on 613 somewhere 1>1 Nieuwland TURES MICHELLE AT 2668. 

realty I'1Md them. I IIMd 6 tick... lor ................................................................
Ub and 2nd ft LaFortune on &25. Very CABLES,MANUALS,SOFTWARE INCL ................................................................ 

~;;;~j···················································
Purdue, either atudent or GA. Pleaae OAR HOUSE open 'Ill 3 a.m. U.S. 31imp!. $$ reward. call OJ 287-5502 ASKING $350 CHUCK AT 3211 Need MICHIGAN ticket(Studeni-GA)I help me out. I will pay caah, child....,, North, one block aouth of Holiday Inn. 
The Obaerver'a Top Gun hed a
................................................................ Have Stanford,AirForce,Rice,Navy,& 

food, druga, anything lor them. Call ................................................................ 
birthday ... Jim at 1109 or leave a meuege Ill 239-GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRELOST: Ring. Aat navy blue stone, Blue, full-size sofa. excallent cond. 2 dey Mich.State GA's to trade. Call H 4031 
... yesterday. Sorry we were late, chief. monogrsmmed MMG. lost in Flanner Hall beds by night), perf. cond. 255-4048. t:iv···aesr..FFiieNo···FFioM...Fi:oFiio:A Cheerfully, engraved MC snd 62 on side, beds wtomer table (sofas by day, twin 
7471. DAME.ST MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box 194 
at end of spring semester. Great sen­WANTS TO FREEZE TO DEATH!! The News Department
Notre Dame, IN 46656timental value. Reward. Call collect (914) PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE SELL ME 238-8051. YOUR PENN STATE TICKETII WILL
&;;;;;ji·iridii;~-~~·i;;;;;;·a·;;;;;;;tt;;;·~;.;;$7ci; NEED 4 GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME large microwave oven in great cond~ion. PAY $$$. CALL MIMI AT SMC 5221 GAME. CALL 284-5666 FOR $$$. 
IRISH GARDENSinstructions etc. $150. Call Gerry 
HA.iiti..8e.iiN··:raw··;:o·i3·ET-·o"Ne..M.Ic: IS NOW OPEN FOR BUSINESS Jerry Larkin 
LOST:Biue ID holder with 10, Detex & (x.7125) 

Congratulations on sewing your own Key and calling card on my way from Ne.iio·2·-rix.t:1icii~No:·c:;u·coli:ec:r HIGAN TICKET OR THE GOOD LORD button. Your family would be proud. 
PLANTS FROM $3.00 FLOWERS FOR 
YOUR LOVED ONES
Foi:i"'sAi.E:·197ii.Pi:iNr'tA.c··;;ii:ii~eiFio·. WILL CALL ME HOME. CALL STEVE Opan 12:»5:30 Mon-Sat
Dillon to Flanner. Call283-2558 Chrissy. 315-672-3617 AFTER 5 PM. 
Reward. Everything works. V8.automatic,Air., 1662 
pwr.steerinQbrakes,AMf'M stereo,! NE.eorix.FoR..ANv.iiot:iE··;;oo:r·ii:.\i:i: 

i··~ii ..d;;.. :ANmiiia··;~··;~~;;~ii~··i~~ Hey Mike, 
owner(N.D.student),clean.$1500 or best 

GAME. CALL 287-3311 DAYS 7-5. TO THE GUY I HELPED AT THE BRAR Any time you need help with your shirt 
offer. 239-6208 either one student or one GA for the Mic­
LOOKING FOR SCULPTURE BOOKS. iieeo.i4i.N"oriie.iiA.IiE~eNN.sr:Arti WANT TO GET TOGETHER SOME­Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP 
higan game. Call Kerstin at 4220. Please
FOR RENT 

help me because I sm desperate.
TICKETS! CALL COLLECT DAVE OR TIME? -FROM THE GIRL ON THE iiicA"MA.i:io:·FiFie·i:i·eo·:i:o;\oeo~"i.i.i<e KIM, DAY 317-243-11430 OR NIGHT OTHER SIDE OF THE SHELF. LINDA
Ne.iiil·2·s:ruo·iiNrric.t<ET-s.Faii·"M·;c::
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND 683­

NEW, $8500i3.0. CALL X3856 317-839-9334. 284-5140
HIGAN GAME, WILL PAY $$$$1 CALL
8889-287-6389 .....................................................-·~~ ....... ................................................................ Happy Birthday 
BILL x1837

PENN..srAre.GAMe·2··;:~k;i;·;;;;;;;;;;;; to the "'Well-llnown American volley­
TO CTO WADE: WAA, WAA, WAA I TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" 
call John x3068 or leave name WANNA GO HOME WAA, WAA, WAA I ball alar" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $80.00 PLUS 
WANT MY MILK AND COOKIES Kathy Cunninghsm I 
i·;;;;;··2·M;;;;;;·(3A;;·;;;~~;·i;;;~·;;,v~; Wish her a great 21st!
TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME
else on this psge. $$$$ x1609 'WINDY CITY SHUTTLE" sponsored by 
WANTED 

DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­GAME TIXS.272-8306
Neeo..M"icj:jiG"AN..sruo'iii.j"T..i:i.ii..GA: the Student Activities Office will star! Sat­
TALS AT 272-5859 ANYTIME. ................................................................
urday, Sept. 3, departing from the MainI NEED A RIDE TO PmSBURGH ANY CALL TONY AT 1089 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NEW
Circle 9:45am. Tickets $10 at LaFortune
WEEKEND SOON. CAN OFFER RIDE HOME GAMES. 272-G058. Information Desk. Next shuttle will
ROOMMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY MOVIE REVIEWER-EXCITING ACCENT 
BACK. DAVE-271-Q758. run ................................................................ Saturday, Sept. 17.
ST. $125' MO. OWN ROOM, SHARE WRITER REALLY BRIAN NO MORElli
Unversity 1.0. re­
BATH CALL BILL. ED. OR SCOTT 287-wii:i:··:rR"Aoii..2..N.O:"MicH··,..;x··;;c;i:i..2 quired. WE CAN ONLY STAND ONE PERSON 
NEED MONEY? WE DISTRIBUTE

7933 OR STOP BY. WE DON'T GET TO BE SO TALENTED BEFORE YOU 
BOOKS. 10-20 FLEX HRS. PER WEEK NO-MIAMI TIX. CALL 407-72HI354.

PHONE UNTIL FRIDAY WILL HAVE TO WRITE ABOUT YOUR­
I DESPERATELY need 5 GA's forMic­$41-iR. 288-1002 BETWEEN 5 AND 7 SELF IN IRISH ITEMS 
PM NEED MICHIGAN TIXI MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided higan. I can get by with 2 of those as 
Rent a Computer for the school yesr or ................................................................ 
CALL MIKE OR JAKE AT 288-2268 OR to go to Michigan instead of ND and ba student tix. My family is willing to pay a 
for the! special project. Macintosh or IBM. HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY DANIELLE 
NOW HIRING. DOMINO'S PIZZA. 287-8104. in their band. My sister is in the Band of lot of $$$$$. Please call T.J. at 283-1837. 
674-5973 "C.N. SOUP" GRAHAM! WE HOPE THE 
the Fighting IRISH. My parents need toDRIVERS, PIZZA MAKERS, PHONE POLO MAN ISN'T THERE TO WATCH 
HELP. $4 HR. PLUS TIPS & MILEAGE. iiot:1e····C3:.\M"e···FooraAi:i:···:rici<.E-Ts be at the Michigan-NO game to prevent Ruoii.(3ii:i"Ci:ooi<.ING·;:o·M-Ai<e.8;\"No
3 BEDROOM HOUSE, 810 HOWARD YOU BLOW OUT ALL YOUR CANDLES, 
NEEDED. CALL 283-1143, FLANNER my siblings from killing each other and
CALL AFTER 3:30 P.M. 277·2151 OR TO SING WITH SKA, FUNK, AND
ST. $300MOtUTILITIES. DEPOSIT RE­BY THE WAY. WHAT COLLEGE DOES 
to see their beloved children at this game 
STOP AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE. HALL H 626. ASK FOR TIM. REGGAE INFLUENCES. IF INTER­
QUIRED 288-1002 BRIAN GO TO? HAVE FUN AT
of high sentimental value. Help stop ESTED, CALL 284-5414 BRIDGETS, BY THE WAY1•.•WHEREneedless violence. Sell me 2 tickets and 
Efficiency apt. near N.D. $180 & $140 DOES SHE LIVE? WE LQVEYOUI K.C.,
keep my family intact. $$ little or no ob­exPe.iiie.Nceo..oFii.'iM·M·iiii···se"Ei<i;:ji3
mo. Call 259-4843. JEN, MICHELLE & f<ATIE, {)'QIJR 4
ject. Call 2804 or 272-7690. 
BAND. TOM AT 2n-7571
TICKETS Tuition paying parents need MIAMI and OTHER ROOMIES) ' :i0\ ,· FOUR FLAGS FARM MICHIGAN GAs--Will pay $$ or TRADE I wanl Michigan tixlllllllllllllll\11 Lots of ''"'"""""''"""""""'"''''"t"nf",'._~t)...........
······(3;;;;;;i·op;;~i~iii"(3;~;;d·c;;;;;~i~9i·····
BED 'N BREAKFAST. Juat 20 mlna. USC or PENN STATE tlx. Save a life, I NEED A RIDE TO GRANO I'IAPIDS,
them for BIG THEODORE'S!
from NO. Idee! lor all NO actlvltlea. My fsmily -From MIAMI-wants to see the call 3593. MI. FRI. SEPT; 2 CALL JENI X4430
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
Re....,. now. 616-471-5711. Irish blow away the CANES Don't let Featuring: THE GROOVE Friday Night. ................................................................ them down II need 4 tickets for the MIAMI LEADERS WANTEDII CONTACT ARMY SMC EQUESTRIAN CLUB MEETING
Doors open at 9:00P.M. Come ea~y. Nice fum. home. Safe area near N.D. game. Money$$$$ is no object -at all. ROTC AT 239-6264 ASK FOR CPT to JIMMY MAHER: con-JAZZ-6:00 SUNDAY. ROOM 105 SCIENCE
Space limited. 
287-6389-683-8889 Call Paul x1847 anytime. WARRICK ulationslllllll Diana and Ann BLD. 
N. V. Giants must 
•


w1n without Taylor 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­And starting at weakside linebacker for the New York Giants is ... who knows? 
That might be the biggest question around the Giants locker room these days in the wake of the substance abuse­related suspension of Lawrence Taylor. It's also the question that none of the Giants coaching staff is answering with the season opener against the Super Bowl champion Washington Redskins on tap for Monday night. 
"Come to the game," coach Bill Parcells said Wednesday when asked about who would replace Taylor. 
Actually, replacing Taylor, a seven-time All Pro, with one person is nearly impossible and probably something the Giants will not try to do. 
"We have a philosophy on 
defense, but because you lose 
one player you don't change 
your whole philosophy," Par­
cells said. "So we will do what we think is right for this week, for this game, and then we will worry about next week, next week." 
Parcells has several options for replacing Taylor. The most obvious would involve using a combination of reserves Byron Hunt and Andy Headen at the weakside linebacker, with recently signed holdout Carl Banks on the strong side. 
Banks also can play both strongside and weakside linebacker, so Headen and 
Hunt can also alternate at 
strongside if necessary. There 
is also a chance that inside 
linebacker Pepper Johnson 
might be moved outside to join 
linebackers Harry Carson, 
Banks and Gary Reasons in a 
3-4 defense. 
One reason the Giants might 
elect to play a 4-3 against Wash­
ington is that the Redskins 
traditionally have tried to es­
tablish a running game against 
them, but with little success. 


Joe Morris (20) and the New York Giants were blown away In last year's season opener by Rich­ard Dent (95), William Perry and the Chicago Bears. This year, the Giants face the world cham-
AP Photo pion Washington Redsklns In their opener, and they must play without the suspended Lawrence Taylor. A related story appears at left. 

Thursday, September 1, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Irish volleyball has tools to reach a higher level 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The combination of a volley­ball team with eight returning monogram winners, one of the nation's top recruiting classes and a challenging schedule that includes nine of the 14 teams topping last year's Top 20 poll just might provide the Notre Dame volleyball team an op­portunity to realize its full po­tential. The squad kicks off the new season Saturday night at 
7:30 in the JACC Pit. 
The team erased a few ques­tions during its five-match tour in China against a Chinese na­tional team considered by many to be one of the best ever. But, the Irish have yet to reap the benefits of this experience and satisfy the queries of the coaches and players alike, who wonder how well the squad will utilize its potential. 
Senior captain Maureen Shea 

MIT. Structural Engineering. University of Virginia, Fi-Analyzing and designing nance. Studies fluctuating bridges. Developed working stock and money market model of a double spandrel arch trends. Assisted head trader bridge. The HP-28S helps him in Yen at Chicago Mercantile analyze structural stress and Exchange. The HP-12C with geometry. It's the only calcu-RPN lets him analyze prices, 

:~~;ctha~~::,:i:"d:~:::: NewAchievers in =~~~=~e::e:::~::: 
variable.

::::~::~ Heavy Metal,Swing,Blues Hewlett-

and Motown 

Packard's calculators are built
matrix math and graphics cap­abilities. And HP Solve lets him solve custom formulas without programming. With more than 1500 functions, 32K RAM and both RPN and algebraic entry, the HP-28S is the ultimate sci­entific calculator. 

HP-28S SCIENTIFIC HP-12C FINANCIAL HP-22S SCIENTIFIC HP-17B BUSINESS CALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR 
will be a key to unlocking much of this potential as she heads into her final year as one of the team's most consistent players. As a middle blocker for the team, Shea has etched her name in the record books as the career leader in digs and games played and will anchor a team that is trying to mesh the experience of its seniors with the new talent of the fresh­men. 
Senior Mary Kay Waller will try to make this job easier for Shea by continuing her assualt on the record books as well. She was a veritable human wall· last season, finishing seventh in the nation in blocking average last season, and she currently stands as the career leader in block solos, block as­sists, total blocks and blocking average going into her final season. When working in tan­dem, Waller and Shea are a for­midable duo and should cause 
ratios, net present value and internal rate of return. He can even create his own custom programs. The HP-12C is the established standard in fi­nancial calculators. 
opponents fits this year. 
Senior Zanette Bennett will also be back--to the delight of fans in the "Z" corner--to im­prove upon her career-leading 1075 kills and maintain' her team-leading hitting percentage. Bennett has been playing primarily as middle blocker, but will also spend time as an outside hitter and should continue to excite crowds with her "in-your-face" style of play. 
The Irish will have a strong defensive player in senior out­side hitter Whitney Shewman, who has recovered from last year's knee surgery, and team will look to her to provide a spark coming off the bench and possibly even start. 
Saturday also marks the return of junior outside hitter Kathy Cunningham who missed the latter part of last season after dislocating her right shoulder. Cunningham adds versatility to the lineup with her hitting ability and de­fensive skills that adhere to Head Coach Art Lambert's first rule of ball control: "pass­ing, passing, passing." 

A new edition to the squad, freshman Julie Bremner, should help the Irish in a much 
needed area--setting--and help convert this passing into points. The Wheaton, Ill., na­tive was named Reebok Na­tional High School Co-Player of the Year in 1987 and should be an asset in the assist category this year. 
Bremner could very easily be setting passes for a fellow freshman, Jai Bruno, who saw quite a bit of playing time with her in China. Bruno, who ar­rives from Colorado Springs, Col., as that state's Player of the Year, is adept at both set­ting and hitting from her posi­tion on the right side and should 
Uc Santa Cruz, Marine Bioi­ogy. Studies behavior of blue whales and effect of environ­ment on distribution of mar­ine mammals. The new, easy to use HP-22S has a built-in equation library with solver, 
• giving her access to the most commonly used scientific equations. Statistics with linear regression. And alge­braic entry. The ideal student science calculator. 

University of Michigan, MBA candidate. Assisted on pric­ing projects for GM. The HP­17Bofferseasyalgebraicentry. Plus time value of money, cash flows and linear regression to analyzebudgetsandforecasts. 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~braska. San Jose State
\Lamoert s alma mater),
-----.1 Western 
Michigan and Cal 

for your success. Look for them at your campus bookstore. Or calll-800-752-0900, Ext. 658E, for your nearest dealer 
We never stop asking "What if ... 
~~HEWLETT 
PACKARD 


make an immediate impact on the team. 
Sophomores Amy White and Colleen Wagner, a right side player and outside hitter, respectively, should add depth to the Irish squad and are ex­pected the contribute signifi­cantly during the upcoming season. 
The Irish are now members the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference, having left the North Star Conference after last season. But due to a two-year waiver, they will play virtually as if they were independents this season. Such a move means that the schedule is less constrained but more difficult than in past years. 
Notre Dame faces a 1987 runner-up and final four qualifier in Stanford and Texas as well as the 1986 champion Pacific and will face a slew of top-20 caliber teams such as Colorado State, Kentucky, Ne­

Poly-San Luis Obispo. 
But this is not the end of the intimidating list of teams on the Irish schedule this year. Also slated to play the Irish are Arizona, Louisiana State, Penn State and Purdue--all who com­peted in post-season play last year and seven powerful Big Ten teams such as Indiana and Northwestern. 
"Last year we showed we could play with some of the best teams in the country,'' said Lambert. "This year, we've got to turn the corner and start beating some these teams. If we don't, it could be a pretty long season with the quality of our schedule." 
The Irish will face the first of many obstacles in the way of a NCAA post-season bid this Saturday night against the visiting Hoosiers from Indiana. Last year, Indiana defeated Notre Dame in four games and four starters return to its lineup this year. 
"It all comes down to how bad they want it," said Lam­bert, "and what price they are willing to pay to achieve suc­cess." 
Thompson to ­stay on top of Olympic team 
Associated Press 
FULLERTON, Calif .. The 

cutting is done and now the fine 
tuning begins as Olympic bas­
ketball coach John Thompson 
sharpens the team he selected 
to defend the gold medal in 
Seoul. 
"We need some more work 

and I'm being a little harder on 
them," Thompson said after 
the nine-game exhibition tour 
ended with a 91-71 victory over 
Athletes In Action Tuesday 
night. 
"I've been a nice guy too 

long." 
Thompson, a taskmaster, 

drew a laugh with the final 
remark. 
The team was reduced to its 

final 12 players Tuesday with 
the cutting of Cal-Santa Bar­
bara point guard Brian Shaw. 
Shaw, the first round choice 

of the Boston Celtics, was 
caught in a numbers crunch at 
the position, which will be han­
dled primarily by Bimbo Coles 
of Virginia Tech and Charles 
Smith, who plays for Thompson 
~...........................................................................................;~at Georgetown. 
r-----------------------~ -------~ 
Thursday, September 1, 1988
page 12 The Observer 

-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The new sportswriters meeting, 
originally scheduled for Sunday night, has been rescheduled. The meeting now will take place immediately following The Observer orienta­tion meeting that starts Tuesday at 9 p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium of the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. Anyone interested in writing sports for The Observer who is unable to attend and who did not attend this past Monday's meeting I~>IJJuu.•u contact Marty Strasen at 283-1471 or 239­
-The Observer 
NO All-Sports passes are available at a table set up outside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Hours will be the same as football ticket hours. The cost is $10 and admits one to all home var­sity events for soccer, hockey, volleyball, baseball wrestling, women's basketball and in­door tra~k. The pass also grants special dis­counts at the Marriott restaurant and lounge whenever presented. -The Observer 
The NO Rowing Club's organizational meeting has been changed to Monday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Varsity will begin at 7 p.m., and novice will begin at 8 p.m. All interested rowers, please attend. -The Ob­server 
The NO women's softball team will hold a meeting Monday at 4:30p.m. in the Joyce ACC football auditorium. All those interested in women's varsity softball should attend. -The Observer 
The NO Judo Club will have its first practice this Sunday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Everyone is welcome, and no experience or obligation is required. Please wear a loose sweatshirt and shorts or sweatpants. Any questions should be directed to Mike at x3470. -The Observer 
Men's lnterhall football captains must come to a meeting Friday at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium. Captains are asked to bring the name of the team member to be cer­tified in CPR or the CPR card of a player who 
holds certification. Equipment issue. next week. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting Thrursday at 8:30 
p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. Call Theresa at x2808 for more information. -The Observer 
N 0 golfcoach George Thomas is interested in meeting any freshmen with a three handicap or better who are interested in trying out for the Irish squad. Please see Thomas between 3 and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, or call him at 295-4210. -The Observer 
Student football managers will have an informational meeting today at 8 p.m. in the Joyce ACC auditorium (enter gate one) for any freshmen interested in becoming student foot­ball managers. Any questions should be di­rected to the manager's office at 239-6482. -The Observer 
Off-Campus football is hoping to begin practice later this week. Anyone interested in coaching or playing for the team should call Pete Walsh at 289-8408. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus soccer team will hold a practice sometime this week. Anyone inter­ested in playing for the team should call 288­8345. -The Observer 
The NO wrestling team will have a mandatory meeting Monday, Sept. 5, at 3: 30 
p.m. for anyone interested in trying out for the 
team. The meeting will be held at Coach Fran McCann's office located on the second floor of the Joyce ACC in the east wing near the pool. 
-The Observer 
The Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament will be Saturday, Sept. 3 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 registration fee and must have a minimum of two girls. Proceeds will be donated to Dismas House. Signups will be held Monday and Tues­day in both dining halls at breakfast and dinner. Any questions should be directed to Kris Malaker at x1915 or Rachel Lyons at x2895. -The 
Observer 




SOCCER 
The FIGHTING IRISH ended the 1987 season as one of the nation s elite soccer powers. This year they will be better than ever. 
The 1988 season opens at home tonight. 7:30p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium against Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival -LOYOLA. 
JOIN ~THE IRISH 
~..;; jft'$' .... _ as they ~-· • battle for -..:~; ~t • Midwestern ~-.. · dom~nance under
<#' the hghts. 
TONIGHT 
N.D. vs. Loyola7:30p.m.
Moose Krause Stadium $2 adult $1 children 
Tickets available at gate one hour prior to game time. (First 500 paid admission receive NO Soccer Team poster.) 


Open 11:00 AM­1 :00 AM (or later) 
dlppetlze'l. Llneup If: dt1ateo '!1 t::8andwlc.he!1. 
On th.~ .::EukCLntr. 

MOZZORELLA STICKS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.65 
7"

RINGS (good ones) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.65 
MATEO ........................... 2.89 
ZUC;CEllNISTICKS .......................... 2.65 (Hom, !urkey ond Salomi) ••.•••.••.•••••••••••••••.••••••••• 1.05 TURKEY ........................... 2.89 .................................... 1.55 
'TURKEY BR ........................ 3.14 HAM .•.•...........•.......•...... 3.03 
......................... 1.55 
TUNA ............................. 3.03
ALO CHICKEN WINGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.75 
ROAST BEEF ••........••...•...... 3.14 SALAMI ........................... 3.14 Above served with a choice of CORN BEEF •.••............•...... 3.14 Marinara Sauce or Cheese Sauce REAL ITALIAN ..................... 3.14 
(Cappocolo, Proclullo ond Genco Salomi) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.45 COMBINATION .................... 3.14 (A fine blend of Roost Beef, Hom and Turkey (Hom, Turkey ond Roost Beef) in • Boillian Sauce wtth Onions and Muahrooma added) VEGETARIAN SUB ..............•.•. 3.03 (3 types of Cheeses w/oll the V8Qe16blea) 
OF THE DAY ................................ l.SS SEAFOOD SUB .......... : .......... 3.24 PASTRAMI ........................ 3.14 CHICKEN SALAD ................... 3.03
~ -~..;_::~:~~=··" 


PHILA. CHEESESTEAK .....•........ only one size (12") 
(Chopped Steak, Melied Cheese, Onions, 
-~  
7"  
MUSHROOMS  ................... ..  .47  
X-MEAT .......................... .  .47  
X-CHEESE .........•...••..........  .28  
VEGETABLES  ................... .  .28  

...........................05 (heated) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .10 
Baseball owners nailed for collusion 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-For the second year, baseball owners were found guilty Wednesday of col­lusion to destroy free agency. An arbitrator said the'clubs en­gaged in a "patent pattern" of bid-rigging that defied fair play and a free market. 
Damages involving such stars as Montreal's Tim Raines, Detroit's Jack Morris, Philadelphia's Lance Parrish and the Chicago Cubs' Andre Dawson will be determined after this season, avoiding any disruption of the pennant races. 
Arbitrator George Nicolau, in a harshly worded 81-page opinion, found "there was no vestige of a free market" be­tween the 1986 and 1987 seasons. It was replaced, he wrote, "by a patent pattern of uniform behavior" in "deliberate contravention" of baseball's collective bargain­ing agreement. He found that communications between clubs were designed to further the free-agent boycott. 
Nicolau's decision will precipitate another round of multimillion-dollar damage hearings and will allow several of the free agents in the case the opportunity for free agency. 
Another arbitrator, Thomas Roberts, ruled last Sept. 22 that clubs conspired against free agents between the 1985 and 1986 seasons. Nicolau's opinion was much more expansive and, among others things, accused baseball officials of making of­fers "for public relations pur­poses" and of having "remark­able lapses of memory'' in their testimony. 
He also found that American League president Bobby Brown and two AL club owners pressured Philadelphia Phillies owner Bill Giles not to sign Parrish, one of the two premier free agents who switched teams by taking pay cuts. 
Donald Fehr, executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association, said "the owners stand exposed as willing to make a contract and then deliberately violate it, to collude and conspire to vio­late their solemn contractual commitments to the players; to avoid their obligations to the fans to put the best possible team on the field." 
Barry Rona, executive direc­tor of the owner's Player Rela­tions Committee, maintained the teams were innocent. "Not only was the conduct of the owners consistent with guidelines established in the Basic Agreement, such con­duct, it should be noted, in no substantive ways differed from that of player agents and other representatives of the players." 
Economic experts hired by the union have proposed dama­ges of between $20 million and $30 million in the first collusion case, according to information obtained by The Associated Press. 


(H8<1led Pepperoni, Cheese w/all Ftxlnqs) 
!l3eue7.age!1. 
sm. lg. sm. lg. Potato Salad . . . .89 1.10 Papal . . . . . . . . . . . .59 .89 
and Red Sauce) [Jn the Duen 14" 
18" .80 1.27 

MEATBALL ........................ 3.03
.80 1.27 

CARDOSA ......................... 3.14 
.47 .80 (Mealb<>lla w/Cheeae, Muahrooma, OnJon) .47 .80 
PIZZA SUB ......................... 3.03 (Salami, Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onlona
.10 .15 

and Red Sauce w/Melled Cheese) .10 .10 REUBEN ••••••••••.•••••••••••••••• 3.14 (Corn Beef, Sauerkraut, Thouend Island DresslnQ w!Melied Swiss Cheese) PEPPERONI COSMO •.....•.•.••... 3.03 
14" 18" U3 5.34 
4.13 5.34 4.61 5.34 4.34 5.34 4.34 5.34 4.61 5.34 4.61 5.34 4.61 5.34 4.61 5.34 
4.61 5.34 
4.34 5.34 
4.81 5.54 4.61 5.34 4.34 5.34 
4 81 
. ~ 
4.34 5.34 4.61 5.34 4.34 5.34 
4.61 5.34 
4.34 5.34. 

Cole Slaw . . . . . . .89 !.I0 Diet Pepsi . . . . • . . .59 .89 Potato Chips. . . . .69 1.39 Slice . .. .. .. .. .. .59 .89 
HELP WAI7ED
Pickles. . . . . . . . . .45 .65 Dr Pepper . .. • . . . .59 .89 Tasty Kake Cupkakea. . .60 Mountain Dew. . . .59 .89 
(Imported from Philo.) 

.._;· ..-('•.'" 

Free Delivery 271-0SUB 
Go Ahead, Confront the Beast!!! 


Thursday, September 1, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
SUB CAMPUS EN,.ER,.AINMEN,. PRESEN,.S 
Effi:BO[l PAR,.IES ON ,.IE QUAD 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Payroll Clerk 
-must be a junior or senior Accountancy Major -submit resume to Todd Hardiman in the Observer Office, 3rd floor LaFortune -Deadline Sept 4, 1988 
For further Information contact Todd Hardiman at The Observer (239-5303) 
Baseball roundup 
A's keep rolling 

Associated Press 
OAKLAND--Storm Davis won his ninth straight decision and Mark McGwire hit his 27th home run as the Oakland Ath­letics beat the Boston Red Sox 7-2 Wednesday to complete a three-game sweep. 
Jose Canseco got his lOOth RBI, reaching that level for a third consecutive season, with a single in the seventh. After the single, Canseco, who has 34 homers, stole his 34th base and moved closer to becoming the first 40-40 player in major­league history. 
Davis, 14-4, allowed five hits and two runs in 5 2-3 innings, leaving after Todd Benzinger got a two-run double. Four relievers combined to hold Bos­ton to two hits the rest of the way. 
McGwire opened the scoring with a three-run shot in the first inning off Mike Smithson, 6-5. Dave Henderson led off the fifth with his 21st homer to give the A's a 6-0 lead and made two outstanding catches in center field. 
Brewers 4, Blue Jays 2 
MILWAUKEE--Don August combined with two relievers on a nine-hitter and Robin Yount drove in two runs with a homer and a single as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Toronto Blue Jays 4-2 Wednesday. 
Royals 1, Indians 0 

KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Bill Pecota's suicide squeeze drove in the only run of the game in the seventh inning and Charlie Leibrandt scattered seven hits as the Kansas City Royals beat the Cleveland Indians 1-0 Wed­nesday night. 
···················~ 
..ic  Yo Drey!  ~ ~  
....  ....  ~ ~  
ic  Give Jimmy Malloy  ~  
ic ic  a funky a-­bass line ...  ~ ~  
..  ~  
...  ~  

... Happy Belated B-day~ ... J~~ ~ ... Love, ~ ... AM. ~ 
.........................~······~·· 
Reds 4, Pirates 1 
CINCINNATI--Kal Daniels 
hit a three-run homer off 
reliever Jim Gott in the bottom 
of the eighth inning Wednesday 
night to lead the Cincinnati 
Reds to a 4-1 victory over the 
Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Rookie left-bander Norm 
Charlton, 1-2, allowed eight hits 
over eight innings to get his 
first major-league victory in 
four starts. The 25-year-old 
Charlton walked three and 
struck out three. 
Padres 6, Mets 3 
NEW YORK-Andy Hawkins survived a three-run second in­ning to combine with Mark Davis on a five-hitter, and Roberto Alomar's RBI double broke a sixth-inning tie as the 
San Diego Padres beat the New 
York Mets 6-3 Wednesday. 
Alomar and Garry 
Templeton drove in two runs 
each for the Padres, who broke 
a string of 19 scoreless innings 
by scoring twice in the second. 
Benito Santiago had three hits 
for San Diego. 
Expos 4, Dodgers 3 
MONTREAL--Tim Wallach singled home pinch-runner Pasqual Perez with two out in the ninth inning as the Montreal Expos beat Los An­geles 4-3 Wednesday night and snapped the Dodgers' five­game winning streak. 
Pinch-hitter Graig Nettles doubled with two out against reliever Alejandro Pena, 5-6. Perez came in to run for Nettles and scored when Wal­lach blooped a single into cen­ter field. 
• 
...... --~ :" -~ 
~: 

Carney Lansford slides In safely at Yankee AP PhOto Stadium last week. Lansford and the A's contln-7-2 win over the Boston Red Sox last night. The ued to roll In the American League West with a major league roundup Is at left. 
said Holtz. "If we had our en­tire, experienced offensive line with us now, and we were playing as well as we are on defense now, I might say that our defense looks really good. But we certainly don't have our offensive line back intact, so either we're good on 'D' or lousy on '0'. 
"The offensive line isn't chal­lenging the defense anywhere near what Michigan's will. A lot of people say they (Michigan) have the best offen­sive line in the country . 
"Earlier I said that our tail­backs need the same personal­ity traits as a kamikaze pilot, and that wasn't said in jest," Holtz continued. "But I do think we're coming along and making a little progress on the offensive line. George Mar­shall, Brian Shannon and Tim Ryan are making good strides, but we have got a tremendous amount of work to do yet. Right now, our defense is simply dominating them." 
Friday's scheduled scrim­mage will be closed to every­one, public and press. 
"We're going to be there awhile," said Holtz. "But when we come out we're going to be a football team." 
Notebook 
continued from page 16 
"Anthony Johnson has missed eight days of practice with a bad ankle and the trainer tells me he'll be out in­definitely. AJ is one of the best practice players you can find, but missing all of that practice time is sure to have a detrimen­tal effect on him when and if he comes back." 
Another question mark ap-
Burns Rent-Ails 
2.5 Cubic Foot 
Refrigerator $45 I School Year 
Free Delivery and Pickup Available 
332 
W. Mishawaka Ave. 
259-2833 
"-----------' 

pears at the wide-out positions. With the graduation of Tim Brown and Reggie Ward and the absence of Martin and Carpenter, the Irish are ex­tremely inexperienced at split end and flanker. According to Holtz, Watters will be the start­ing flanker, followed on the depth chart by Pat Eilers, Rod Smith and Aaron Robb, who was out for an extended period with an injury. 
At split end, Steve Alaniz will start, Ray Dumas is the backup and Raghib "Rocket" Ismail follows. While admitting that Ismail shows promise, Holtz does not expect the speedster to be an impact player early on. 
"Remember, Rocket was a running back in high school," said Holtz. "Right now, differ­ent coverages present a prob­lem for him and he has a tough time finding a hole to get open. He has a long way to go, but he will get there. He is extremely talented." 
If Holtz is high on anyone, it 
1g now, e e ense 1s so 
is  the  defense.  But  he  is  
cautiously  optimistic  there  
al~~R·.  ht  th  d f  .  

far ahead of the offense it's al­most hard to comprehend," 
Starting this Friday 
with ZETO fltiD THE HEAT-OtiS 
4:00-5:00 Fieldhouse Mall 
Start your weeken J right!! . 

r 
Thursday, September 1, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
Graf, other seeds steamroll at Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Steffi Graf, trying to complete the first Grand Slam sweep in 18 years, made a believer out of Elizabeth Minter Wednesday. 
"I think she'll win the tourn­ament," Minter said after fal­ling to the top seed 6-1, 6-1 in the opening round of the U.S. open. "I don't think she can be beaten, especially on this sur­face. She's just too powerful." 
Graf, who has lost only one set in Grand Slam competition this year, barely broke a sweat in her 42-minute workout against Minter. 
"You could see she was in­timidated," said Graf, who has won 29 matches in a row. "Sometimes she didn't even know the score or that it was her turn to serve." 
While Graf took another step toward the Grand Slam, third­seeded Chris Evert made his­tory by playing in her 18th straight Open. 
. . . 
~vert, a siX-time Open wm­ner, tied the women's record for most _consecutive U.S. championships. played. when she _beat Conchita Martmez of Spam 6-4, 6-1. 
"This tournament means a lot of memories and history to me," said Evert, who equaled the record set by Pam Teeguar­den from 1967-84. 
Andre Agassi, the No. 4 men's seed, won his first match ever at the Open with a 7-6, (7­5), 6-3, 6-3 victory over fellow American Philip Johnson. 
Agassi, who has won 19 straight Grand Prix matches and six titles this year, is being touted as the next great Amer­ican player. But the 18-year-old from Las Vegas, Nev., said he isn't feeling any pressure. 
"I play tennis for myself, not to fulfill other people's expec­tations," said Agassi, who lost in the first round here the past two years. 
Five-time champion Jimmy Connors started his 19th U.S. open with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 victory over Agustin Moreno of Mexico. 
"I pleased with the way I 
-played and I'm pleased with the shape I'm in" said Con­nors, who broke' a four-year title drought in July. "If I can lift my game another notch, it would be pretty good for me." 


AP Photo 

Andre Agasal, the best American hope to chal­yesterday at Flushing Meadows, as did the rest lenge for the. U. S. Open tennis title, won easily of the seeded players. A roundup appears at left. 
Men's soccer to open vs. Loyola 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
Even though the Ramblers are 0-7-1 against the Irish, the Loyola (Ill.) soccer team proves to be a formidable foe this season. Notre Dame coach Dennis Grace and his eight re­turning starters vividly re­member last year's 2-1 over­time victory over Loyola in the season opener. 
Then-freshman Steve LaVigne headed in the winning goal in a game that thrust the soccer team to a torrid 14-0 start. The two squads will kick off the season tonight at 7:30 in Krause Stadium. 
"I know Loyola is coming here to play," said Grace. "We have to make sure we're ready to play Notre Dame soccer, period." 
But it may be diificult to play Notre Dame soccer when you star goalkeeper is out with a leg injury. .Junior keeper Danny Lyons, who started every game last season, will be unable to play in the home opener because of a chin injury he sustained in practice. 
Senior Kevin Mayo gets the 
nod in his first-ever start as an 
Irish goaltender. The rest of the 
squad has the utmost confi­
dence in the senior's debut this 
evening. 
"They've played enough to­
gether as a team to where this 
shouldn't affect them," said 
Lyons. "I'm sure they all have 
confidence in Kevin." 
"I'm not concerned with the 
team having faith m me De­
cause they're behind me and 
are very supportive. Physi­
cally, I'm more than ready," 
added Mayo. 
The Ramblers return 10 
starters and 15 lettermen as 
they attempt to improve from 
last season's 8-11-3 mark. With 
this much returning experi­
ence they may provide another close, edge-of-the-seat contest. 
"I'd like to see a close 3-1 or 2-1 ballgame just to keep it ex­citing. But I think on a wide field like Krause we should have no problem," asserted LaVigne. 
"I expect if we play to our potential it won't be much of a game," said senior forward Randy Morris. "Of course I'd like to win, but I just want to see us play well, work hard and stay injury-free. From there it doesn't really matter what the score is going to be." 
Playing under the lights proved to be lucrative for the team last year as they posted a perfect 10-0 record in Krause Stadium. The team will try to keep that streak alive as well 

as achieve it's 100th victory at home. 
Tickets will be $2 for adults and children and $1 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents (unless you have already purchased the Notre Dame All­Sports pass). 
SIDE KICKS -A few of the players on the Notre Dame squad will be aiming for some personal milestones this season. Randy Morris needs 
just three assists to become the all-time leader in that cate­gory. Senior forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt and senior midfielder Joe Sternberg need 11 and 14 goals, respectively, to move into third place in that list. 
HOW TO STAND OUT IN A CROWD. 
Saint Mary's College women are recognized everywhere by their official ring crafted by BALFOUR. 
Design Integrity with more options at a fair price, on campus personal delivery, No COD shipments and charges and over 20 years experience has made BALFOUR the 
overwhelming supplier of choice. 
September 6,7 ,8 and 9th is Ring Week at Saint Mary's College. You can order your Balfour ring from 10:00-4:30 on any of these days in the Haggar College Center Game Room. 
Look for the BALFOUR table to order your
ring. BALFOUR 
"The Preferred Jeweler of Saint Mary's Women" 
OJBalfour. 
3214 Menauquet Trail Michigan City, Indiana 46360 

-21 ID Required - 
FRIDAY LUNCH featuring * Hamburgers-Cheeseburgers * Fries * SUBs * Cheese Fries -Turkey * Cheese Sticks -Roast Beef * Onion Rings -Ham-n-Cheese * Deep Fried Mushrooms*Pizza * Potato Skins*Nachos  
First Friday Lunch of the year!  

Thursday, September 1, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
4:00p.m. SMC Volleyball vs. Lake Michigan College, Angela Athletic Facility. 
4:15p.m. Army ROTC Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium. 
5:00p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Indiana University, South Bend, Moose Krause Stadium. 
7:00 
p.m. Career and Placement Services presents Arts and Letters Placement Night for all senior Arts and Letters majors in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

7:00 
p.m, Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship invites everybody to join their interdemoninational Bible Study group in 309 Grace Hall. For further information, call Jim at 283-1621 or Andreas 287-4855. 


7:30 p.m. Soccer vs. Loyola, Moose Krause Stadium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
7:30p.m. Department of Philosophy Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture "Varieties of Racism," by Anthony Appiah, Cornell University, Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
.. NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 Ice palace? 47 Bothered
-~­

24 Acclamation continually1 Digest, for 26 Key spot on a 49 Clean ashort car blackboard6 Goodbye, 30 Allergic 51 Ski resort inLondon style disorder Utah
10"-Ideas" 

1951 song ' 33 Tiny 52 Unexpected 34 Like some beer loss
14 Irregular 36 Pertaining to 54 Goofed on the15 Middle East the east diamondgulf 37 Ticket-booth 59 Crescent­16 Fountain order 

17"­sign shaped roll 38 Fire preceder 61 Form or talk
Boccanegra," 39 Press closing endingVerdi opera 40 College in N.C. 62 De-, in18 U.S.A. or 42 Craft, in "The GreenU.S.S.R. 

Cordoba Pastures"20 High 43 "Music" to a 63 Actressschoolers, hitchhiker Tushinghamusually 45 Octogenar­64 Meaning22 Actress 
ian'sgoal 65 Author Rand etMacMahon 
al. 66 "Thanks -!" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 67 Garden 

implement 
DOWN 

1 Remainder 2 Clinton's canal 



3 Inherit 13 Anagram for Byron hoods beat 
4 "--Born," 42 Across 31 Actress Eva 50 Computer1948 Kaye 19 Buddies -Saint communica­musical 21 W. Afr. 32 Make-of tions, for short 
5 Offside result 
republic (finish off) 52 Bruins' home 6 Story 25 Part of T.L.C. 35 Befuddled 53 Importune7 Hebrew month 26 Creator of 38 The Keys are 55 Division word 8 On edge Hedda Gabler these 56 Photo finish 


9 Ampersand 27 "The-Left 41 Nymphs of the 57 Bacchanalian -·: :-: 10 Set apart Behind Me" deep cry .-.;-~ ····.
11 Be completely 28 Singujar 43 Dyeing ester 58 Author Earl · self-evident person 44 Propertied -Biggers12 Earl of Avon 29 Below, to ·46 Uses a shuttle 60 Srta.'s mother 
48 What some 
:' 




Gary Larson 



,l 

Notre Dame 
Reuben Turkey Divan Beer Stir Fry Cheese Lasagna 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Calvin and Hobbes 
PlANET C._lVIN MCNES KR.O§ nt£ SCL~R S1SltM. 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet Hungarian Goulash Rice & Spinach Bake Deli Bar 
IID@:JO~ NOTICES U~Til ~~~ ClR~II T/t.l<£.5 HIM DIRECTL'i BETWEtN 1\-\E S\l~ ~~I> EA!ml 
COULO '(OJ
CAL~IN Cf..\JSE.S fl-TOTPIL 
MC:l~E., PLEI\SE ~
SOLAR t.CLIPS£! EARll-\ \5 
'«)U'R£ IN M'i
5\\~Dt.O IN \)~KNESS. 
l\G\\i.
lt>'tl lO~G 'tl\lL Ct>.LV\~ 
STt\'( 1\4ER£ ?! 

MORE FACTS OF NATURE: As part of nature's way to help spread the species throughout their ecological niche, bison often utilize a behavior naturalists have described as "ballooning." 
: . CHECK OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEK:
························································~·······························································. 
•
•
•
•
.
! CARNIVAL 
I 
•
5 SATURDAY, SEPT. 3RD 
! 6-1 0 PM
•
: Fieldhouse Mall
•
•
• 
I FOOD! MUSIC! GAMES & PRIZES! 
I
•
: 50 cent tickets for each event.
•
• 
Movies this Week: 
Thursday: Broadcast News Friday: Good Morning Vietnam 
Saturday: Knute Rockne: All American : •
• 

All Times: 8:00pm & 10:15 pm I 
Admission $2 I
•

Cushing Auditorium : 
• 
;
•

• ­
. 
5 
• 
•
5 
!
• 

• SPONSORED BY ND STUDENT UNION BOARD I 
~ ..............................................................•...............•.............•.........................•.• 

~--­

-------~­
Sports 
Thursday, September 1, 1988 

ND women's soccer team to play first game ever 
By COLLEEN HENNES­let the fans down, or let them­tainties that will necessarily nite starting line-up for today's Grace said that 1988 is not to SEY selves down." arise. match against IU-SB, em­be primarily a developmental Sports Writer Grace views the first game "I think we're gonna see it phasizing that players must year. He is looking for the wo­
merely as an interesting and all come together in the game,'' earn their spots on a daily men to play as well as they can 
At 5:30 pm today the Notre exciting historical fact, and not said sophomore Bernie Hol­basis. as a team this season, rather Dame women's varsity soccer as an important issue in the de­land. "If it all has to do with "Starters are starters be­than simply looking ahead. Of team will take the field in the velopment and formation of the one team outworking another cause they work hard. It's im­course, as with any beginning, first game of their season and soccer team. we should do fine." portant that a lot of kids get a there is a look toward the fu­their existence. The decision "We are a team," he ex­Ten days of practice, includ­lot of playing time." ture. last year to make women's soc­plained. "We're here. I'm ing daily workouts with the Grace has a 49-27-9 (.629) And, as Holland said, "They cer a varsity sport put the 1987 amazed at how much the girls men's team, may not have been record in four years coaching have been talking a lot about club team members and have accomplished in ten enough to completely coor­the Notre Dame men's soccer next year," when the schedule several new athletes in the days." dinate all the aspects of a first­team. Assistant soccer coach will include some of the best spotlight. The players seem to have taken year team. Sullivan says that Neil Schmidt will take over the teams in the country. 
to this view as well. the players are not yet sure team when the men's and wo­However, Coach Grace said 
The challenge to prove them­"The team gets along really what positions they will be men's schedules conflict. Nei­he doesn't measure the success selves goes beyond the op­well," said junior K.T. Sul­playing. ther plan to use a different ap­of a team in terms of wins or ponent, Indiana University­livan, "and everyone's really "We have a lot of flexibility," proach in coaching the women. losses. South Bend, and is one that willing to work hard." she said. "We're a little unsure "I just see them as athletes," "If at the end of the yearHead Coach Dennis Grace feels Hard work and a positive at­abouteverything,butev~ryone Grace said. ''To me they're just we've reached our potential, if the team is ready to accept. titude are two attributes that has worked really hard. We're soccer players. Trust me, when we've progresses at a good
"I'm very optimistic," this team seems to possess in still seeing who plays best they start playing against ex­rate, if we are better at the end 
Grace said. "We are absolutely abundance, and the players are where and what kind of com­perienced college ball players, of the year than we are now,ready. This is the first game eager and committed to binations will work out." they're not going to get treated then Dennis Grace will be a 
and I know they're not going to working out any initial uncer-Grace does not have a defi-with kid gloves." happy coach." 
. I 
Freshmen buy tickets 
Special to The Observer 
Freshman ticket sales begin today for the 1988 Notre Dame football season. 
Students are asked to bring their application, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center on the day specified for each class. One student may present a maximum of four (4) applications and ID cards. 
Student football ticket applications have been sent to all students with a campus or local address. If you have not received your application or if the class status preprinted on your application is incorrect, you are asked to come to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC prior to your designated class issue day. 


Ricky Watters runs the ball In the open field last year against Boston College. Watters switches positions this year to help shore up the depleted 

National polls are the least of Holtz's worries 
Lou Holtz has been around long enough to know teams in the country and then put teams that people reasons and (split ends) Pierre Martin and Bobby that preseason wire service and magazine Top 20 will recognize in the bottom 10, and Notre Dame is Carpenter (academic ineligibility) are no longerlistings mean about as much as the seat number a team everybody recognizes. They think, 'We'll with us. So we've really had to get by with veryprinted on your student football tickets. just put Notre Dame down then. That would be little experience at the wide-out positions." 
But he's also one to considerably downplay his worthwhile.' " Holtz lists Ricky Watters as his starting flanker, 
team's potential heading into the season. And Notre but cautions against expecting miracles from one Dame's No. 13 ranking in this week's Associated One of the main things Holtz and the Irish are of last year's most pleasant surprises of the Irish Press poll is fodder for Holtz's barbed tongue. worried about heading into the Michigan game is offense. 
"You know," smiled Holtz, "after being around injuries to key personnel. Since the end of spring "Ricky Watters has to try to learn a new offensive for awhile it seems to me that if they think we're practice, at least four players who had been pen­position, while, for now, remaining our number two going to be good that year, they'll put us in the top ciled in as probable starters on the depth chart may tailback," Holtz said. "Hopefully someone else will three. If they think we're going to be decent, they'll 
emerge to back up Mark Green at tailback, but
-put us in the top six. Ifthey think we've got a chance until that happens, Watters has to stay on top of to be good, we'll be in the top 10. If they think we're both.''
Pete 

not going to be that good, they'll put us in the top With Watters scheduled to start at flanker, Green 15, and if they think we're going to be horrendous, Skiko without a definite backup at tailback and Johnson then they'll put us somewhere between 15 and 20. sidelined at fullback, the highly-touted Irish run­
For them, that's about where we belong, some­Football Notebook ning game is largely depleted. where between 15 and 20." 
A stress fracture in Brooks' foot was discovered 
Holtz indicates the Irish will have much more last week, but Holtz said he apparently received pressing things to worry about than where they'll not be ready for Michigan: defensive tackles Bob the injury about two months ago. But Holtz certainly be in anybody's preseason poll next Saturday, when Dahl, Ted FitzGerald and Tom Gorman, and tail­is not interested in finding a quick fix for one of his they face Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. back Tony Brooks. Brooks ran a few plays in Wed­best running backs. 
"It's been my experience that we're almost al­nesday night's practice, his first action in about a "Any decision made about Tony Brooks' return ways going to be in the preseason Top 20 in maga­week. Fullback Anthony Johnson is questionable, will have his future and his health first in mind,"zine polls," said Holtz. "There are so many Notre and Holtz says right now it does not appear as if said Holtz. "He is a fine quality player and he cer­
Dame fans across the country that they're going to he'll be ready to play by next Saturday. tainly has a lot of playing time ahead of him. The stick us in there somewhere so our fans will buy "We've had to face a tremendous amount of ad­last thing we want to do is rush him back and have their magazine and read what they have to say him rein jure himself. 
versity since the end of the spring practices," said 
about us. 

Holtz. "It hasn't only been the injuries, but 
see NOTEBOOK, page 13
"What they'll usually do is list the real top 10 

(offensive guard) Jeff Pearson left for personal 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch flanker reserves, and Is also slated as the number two tailback. Football Notebook takes a look at 
the status of the offense below. 






