
It's come again
IACCENT: Notre Dame Folk Choir Another day of clouds and rain with a high in the lower 60s. 80 percent chance of showers tonight. Don't pack the
IVIEWPOINT: Palestinian refugee camps 
umbrella yet. 


VOL XXI NO. 130 TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
I 1$ 
The Observer I Mike Moran 
Would the real UMOC please stand? 
Wearing pantyhose over his head and standing his fingers curled to form the letter "U" which stands before an egg-soaked banner, sophomore Phil Mar­for "ugly." Marzolf came from behind after a diligent zolf proudly raises his hand in the UMOC salute --campaign to win the dubious honor. 
•
"Underdog'' WinS U.M.O.C. 
By MATT GALLAGHER An Tostal, with candidates re­Candidates raised the money Copy Editor ceiving a vote for each penny by various methods, including they raised. going door-to-door and begging 
Phil Marzolf swept to victory Marzolf raised $526.00. at the Senior Bar, said Feic. in the Ugly Man on Campus Second-place finisher Mike Marzolf was "really happy to 
competition, easily outdistanc­"Coma" Moran took in $338.44, win the award. We felt that we ing all competition while nudging out Music Professor were the underdogs at the raising over $500 for charity, Carl "Chip" Starn, who gar­beginning, but pulled it out in 
said organizer Michele Feic. nered $311.21. the end." Feic, who ran the UMOC 
Feic said the money raised Marzolf attributed his vic­competition with Martha Wen­would go to the Notre Darnel tory to the help of his staff of 
del, said that the event raised Jane M. Beres Lukemia Foun­
15 to 20 friends who went door-a record $1750.44. Donations dation. In the past, money has 
see UMOC, page 4 
were taken during the week of gone to various other charities. 

Dukakis, Jackson disagree 
Associated Press Pittsburgh. "Terrorism does dealing with terrorists was an 
not emerge out of the blue." abrupt shift in a campaign
PHILADELPHIA --Michael 
The candidates agreed that debate which had been focused Dukakis and Jesse Jackson dif­in hostage situations, the gov­on economic issues, particu­fered Monday over whether ernment ought to talk to people larly how to assist Pennsylva­
any concessions should be who could bring about the nia's ailing steel industry. 
made to terrorists holding release of persons being held. Americans hostage, while a U.S. policy holds that Amer­Dukakis was aiming for his new survey said Dukakis ap­ican officials ''will talk to any fourth straight primary victory 
peared headed for another big­official or group about the in a contest with 178 delegatesstate presidential primary vic­safety and release of hostages at stake. 
tory in Pennsylvania. but we will not make conces­Vice President George Bush, 
sions," according to the State who could clinch a convention"You never make conces­Department. 
majority with a victory in sions to terrorists --ever," 
Pennsylvania, compared his Dukakis told reporters during 
--=:rw::ll~ campaign rebirth after an Iowa 
a final campaign swing across caucus defeat to the revival ofthe state before Tuesday's pri­Pittsburgh, a once-strapped 
mary. But Jackson insisted, "The steel town. Jackson rejected what he fact is that our government has called "material concessions" talked with terrorists and has 
"I know what it's like to be 
to terrorists but did not rule out negotiated, in some instances knocked to the canvas," he 
political accommodation. He successfully. It is good as a said, adding that his politicalalso said he could conceive of policy, but there must be al­
comeback was "a parallel to situations where he would ways flexibility in the policy. 
what you demonstrated here." 
grant safe passage to hostage­...We ought to take every ini­takers and added, "I choose tiative we can to gain the The latest Associated Press negotiation over blind bloody freedom of the American delegate count gave Bush 1,081 confrontation." hostages in Beirut." -58 short of the 1,139 needed for 
"If we are going to deter ter­the nomination at the GOP con­rorism, we must address the Eight Americans are held vention next August. His only underlying causes of ter­hostage by Moslem extremists remaining rival, former televi­rorism," he said after an in Beirut. sion evangelist Pat Robertson, appearance at a high school in The discussion of tactics for has 31 delegates. 

Court to rethink affirmative action 
Associated Press letting stand a ban on sexually 
explicit telephone message ser­
WASHINGTON --A deeply vices in Arizona. split Supreme Court said Mon­-agreed to decide whether day it will consider throwing wardens of federal prisons out a key civil rights decision should have sweeping power to used to fight racial discrimina­say what publications inmates tion. may read. 
By a 5-4 vote, the justices The court said it will use the took the unusual step of ex­racial-harasssment case as a panding the scope of a North vehicle to weigh overturning a Carolina racial-harassment 1976 ruling that expanded the case to consider limiting the right of minorities to sue over ability of minorities to sue alleged discrimination. private citizens for monetary Justice John Paul Stevens, in damages. a sharply worded dissent, said 
Critics said the announce­minority groups may feel ment could have a major psy­betrayed by the court's willing­chological impact on ness to consider discarding an minorities, raising fears that a important civil rights prece­newly solidified conservative dent. majority on the court is willing He said the action is unwise to consider dismantling other activism and will "have a det­civil rights victories. rimental and enduring impact 
In other action, the court: on the public's perception of the 
-turned away the first "dial­
see BIAS, page 6
a-porn" case ever to reach it, 

Rescue continues on USS Bonefish 
Associated Press The explosion triggered a 
fire that filled the 219-foot ves­
NORFOLK, Va. --One of the sel with smoke and toxic 
Navy's last diesel-electric sub­fumes. The sub surfaced and 
marines wallowed helpless on Cmdr. Mike Wilson ordered it 
the surface Monday awaiting a evacuated. 
salvage vessel after an under­The frigate USS Carr, which 
water explosion and toxic fire also was in the training exer­
injured 22 sailors and left three cise, took aboard 89 of the 
missing. Bonefish's 92 crewmen. The 
The 30-year-old USS McCloy, which also was train­Bonefish, its remaining crew ing nearby, reached the evacuated to shore bases, Bonefish before nightfall, the floated alongside the frigate Navy said. USS McCloy about 160 miles off Also steaming to the scene Florida, said Chief Petty Offi­and expected to arrive Tuesday cer Terry Borton, a spokesman was the salvage ship USS Hoist at Atlantic Fleet headquarters from the Little Creek Am­in Norfolk. phibious Base in Norfolk. 
There was no apparent dan­The Bonefish was launched ger that the submarine, which in 1958 from New York Ship­carries only conventional building in Camden, N.J. it is weapons, would sink, he said. powered on the surface by 
"The decision made was that three 1 ,500-horsepower diesel no one goes aboard" until a spe­engines that drive a single cialized submarine rescue propeller and charge batteries. ship, the USS Petrel, arrived While submerged, the batteries later in the day, Borton said. power t,wo electric motors. 
Specialists on the Petrel, The Bonefish and its two based at Charleston, S.C., with sister ships, the Barbel and the Bonefish, "will make an as­Blueback, are among the last sessment when it is safe to of the Navy's diesel-electric board the Bonefish. They have submarines and are used prin­the expertise and the equip­cipally to mimic Soviet sub­ment to test the toxicity of the marines in training exercises. air" inside the boat, said Lt. The Soviets still operate about Fred Henney, another fleet 100 diesel-electric boats. spokesman. The 22 injured were trans­
It was not known if the mis­ferred to the aircraft carrier sing men were aboard the sub John F. Kennedy, which or in the water. steamed to Mayport, Fla. 
The explosion occurred Sun­From there they were flown to day afternoon in the boat's bat­the Naval Hospital in Jackson­tery compartment while the ville. The other crewmen were Bonefish was submerged on a taken to Mayport by the Carr routine training mission, said and flown to the Charleston Air Borton. Force Base. 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1988 

In Brief 
Panamanian dissidents are planning to undertake a military operation against strongman Manuel Antonio Noriega by the beginning of next week, an opposition leader said Monday. He gave no details, but the group apparently comprises high-ranking defectors from the Defense Forces who came to the United States shortly after Panama's crisis erupted two months ago with Del­valle's ouster. -Associated Press 
Jane Fonda will be extended an official welcome when she comes to visit the town of Waterbury, Connecticut. The city's Board of Alderman defeated a resolution against welcoming Jane Fonda whetl she comes to film part of the movie "Union Street" this summer. The vote was a set­back for the anti-Fonda campaign, led by a group of vet­erans still bitter over the movie star's 1972 trip to Hanoi. The proposed resolution stated that the city would not extend Fonda any official welcome, "symbolic or other­wise." -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
l Senior Month ticket sales will be held from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune 
I 
Student Center. Seniors must buy tickets for all Senior Month and Senior Week events by Thursday. -The Obser­ver 
The Overseas Development Network will hold 
its final meeting of the year today at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Business will be finished and plans for next year will be discussed. All members must bring their T-shirt money. -The Observer 
Billiard tournament finals will be played today at 7 p.m. in the poolroom under the Huddle. -The Observer 
The Juggler's spring 1988 issue will be distributed today through Wednesday in LaFortune Student Center, O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Hesburgh Library. The Jug­gler Poetry Reading will be Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Library Lounge and the writing competition award win­ners will be announced. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
Graduate student copies of the special issue of the Notre Dame Report containing the reports of the Univer­sity Task Forces are available from Victor Krebs, 272-7892. 
-The Observer 
The Royal Leichtenstein Quarter Ring Sidewalk Circus will be on the Fieldhouse Mall from noon to 1: 15 
p.m. on Wednesday. -The Observer 
Connecticut Club sign-ups for loading the Connecticut Club baggage truck are Wednesday in the main lobby of LaFortune Student Center from 3:30 to 5:30p.m. and in Lemans lobby at Saint Mary's from 9 to 9:30 p.m. For more information call Kent Weldon at 283-1228 or Andy Titterton at 271-9082. -The Observer 
Rev. Stanley J aki, professor of physics at Seton Hall University and 1987 recipient of the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, will give a lecture entitled "St. Thomas and the Universe" on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. -The Observer 
The University Counseling Center is giving a workshop on test anxiety today from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
A faculty panel presentation addressing "Gradu­ate School Preparation" will be held Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. All majors and class~s are invited; juniors are encouraged to attend. The event 1s sponsored by Career and Placement Services. -The Observer 
"Easter in Santa Cruz," a report and slideshow by a Notre Dame delegation on a week spent in El Salvador with human rights activists and the people of San Salvador and Santa Cruz, will be shown on Thursday at 12:30 p.m. in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 

Design Editor ........... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Layout .. .... R. Aschenbrenner Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . Slug Lafleur Accent Layout ........ Kathleen McCaffrey TypesetteTs ...................... Jim Mercurio Typists... . . . . . Jenn Conlon ..................................... Mark Ridgeway ........................................ Lynsey Strand News Editor. ...................... Chris Julka ND Day Editor ...... Kathy Mckee Copy Editor ... . . ...... ... . . . .... . Erin Lynch SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Sports Copy Editor .......... Theresa Kelly Photographer ...................... Mike Moran 
ne o.-ner (USPS ~99 2.-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq eum and vacation periods. ne 0'-"a-is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semeslel") by writina ne Olllena-, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Iadiana 46~~6. 
ne ~is • member of ne Allodllled ....... All reproduction ri&hts are raerved. 

ND shows ex-Nazi what holiness really is 
"I want only to repent, your Holiness," the 
ex-Nazi pleaded. "Is salvation still available Brian 
for purchase?" 
The Pope flashed a pious look of disgust and Conway whispered, "Sshh! Indulgences are out of the question. The sign on the Vatican steps ex-Assistant Viewpoint Editor }iW"'"''· .._ plicitly says, 'Minors and Nazis not served.'":!!.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!~ Reaching into the Papal Desk, the Pope pulled out a scroll and handed it to the man. "But your cause is not lost, Mr. Waldheim. Take this list of virtues and search. You must find virtue in others to see and feel it in yourself." 


Kurt W aldheim, current Austrian president and former United Nations Secretary General, looked perplexed. "But I'm a politician, your Holiness," he said. "You must direct me to vir. tuous surroundings. Where can I go?" 
The Pope rose for the benediction: "Make a pilgrimage to the University of Notre Dame. The path to virtue winds there. Go in peace, now, to love, to serve, and to leave a donation as you leave." 
Mter that controversial private interview last year, W aldheim, who had been accused of sig­ning letters to send Jews away to concentration camps during the Holocaust as well as of cover­ing up his Nazi career, caught the next plane to the Michiana1Ioly Land Regional Airport. 
for a happy hour before mass." 
Waldheim's Notre Dame courtesy guide, one Following mass, Waldheim exited Sacred of ND's less virtuous students who chose the Heart with a look of less-than-moderately as­guide position tofulfill some community service tonished admiration. "What a wonderfully or­hours, met Waldheim and asked him which part nate and beautiful structure of a building," he of the bastion of virtue he would like to see first. gasped. "It's as gorgeous inside as outside. 
Consulting the Holy Papal Virtue Scroll, Now, my young guide, show me Piety." Waldheim shouted, "Take me to Patience, and "Piety!" the student yelped, "you were just make haste." in church." 
The guide left Waldheim inside the Depart­"Oh, yeah. I guess I did notice some piety in ment of Patience on the fifth floor of O'Shag. the midst of admiration for such flamboyant Waldheim left reciting "If your string is in a decoration...OK, the last virtue on the Scroll knot, Patience will untie it" between getting is Generousity." shoved and cussed at on his way through the Next Waldheim found himself in the Office of mobs and riots of checkmarking lines. Financial Aid. "Please teach me about 
Outside of O'Shag, when Waldheim asked Generosity, sir. How do you help the poor?" where to find Modesty, the guide said, "I can't The financial aid officer snapped, "Poor? help you there. But we certainly have pride. Go Poor? What do poor people have to do with Irish!!" generosity? They have nothing we want; the 
poor can't even contribute much to our "Isn't pride one of the seven deadly sins?" bookstore. We're a private Catholic university; Waldheim inquired. we can't be helping the poor." 
"Urn er urn...Tradition is what I meant; "I think I understand now," Waldheim said we've got a proud tradition. Just look at that thoughtfully as his tour ended, and he waited beauty," the guide said, pointing toward the at the library circle for a ride to the airport. Golden Dome. "That's $300,000 worth of solid, "I'm beginning to feel virtuous already, but I gold-plated tradition up there." still don't feel fully absolved. I'd like to meet 
"It is indeed something to be proud oi," the man I've heard so much about: your fueh-Waldheim replied. "Now show me Modera-rer, Father Hesburgh. Where is he?" tion." The ND courtesy guide pointed straight up. 
"You're in luck. The homily at today's mass Waldheim wasn't sure whether the student at Sacred Heart is about Moderation. Since we aimed toward the fourteenth floor library suite have a few minutes, let's head back to the dorm or beyond . 
.-----------------------------------~ 
FORD TOYOTA -VOLVO
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a l1fesav1ng Red Crass CPR course. 

PH: 259-1981 
+American Red Cross 
~~l:. ~~_j.
·~ JEFFERSON & CEDAR-MISHAWAKA ·~
1m 

Tuesday, April 26, 1988 The Observer page 3 
MBA Club elects first woman President ever 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Staff Reporter 
For the first time in its his­tory, the MBA association has elected a woman as president for the upcoming year. 
Gretchen Grieb, graduate business student in her second year, was elected president of MBA association by the first year students of the college of masters of business adminis­tration. 
Grieb and her opponents were nominated by fellow stu­dents "based on their percep­tion" of how well she would per­form the duties of the office. 
The duties of the president in­clude coordinating activities for the college, seeking out more firms to interview at the college, and making a better name for the school, said Grieb. 
One of her chief goals, she says, is to "do all I can to make our reputation bet­ter...(because) the program 

Construction workers replace a stained glass window above the entrance to Sacred Heart Church. Though the crews may not feel all the con­struction Is a bother, the up-coming closing of the church which it neces­sitates may inconvenience parishioners. 
Each onebad to Ap;ainandagain. the big test came. each athlete was ready. Striving for his personal best. 
That's how it is with 
And that's how it is h another form ofcom­ition-standardized 

JKAPLAN 
110­

1717 E-SOUTH ~END AVE­SOlJTH f\END, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
SIGN UP BEFORE YOU GO HOME TO RESE R V E SPA C E F 0 R Y 0 U R F A L L l SAT CLASS IN SOUTH BEND! 
INDfPENDENT SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM9 
is very young and a lot of people don't know about it." 
Grieb said her future plans for the school include contact­ing alumni of the MBA school, as well as other university alumni, in an attempt to get some of them to come to Notre Dame as speakers or as inter­viewers at the college. 
She also said that she was in­terested in organizing another "case competition" in the fall. Such a competition, which is held annually in the spring, al­lows MBA students to test their skills by presenting a hypot­hetical legal case before an ex­pert panel, given 24 hours to prepare for the presentation. 
She also would like to give the MBA students more "hands-on experience" through a business communi­cations program or workshop designed to help students at "getting up and talking in front of a group of people." 
Grieb was a member of Notre Dame's 1985 graduating class which she says gives her "a good idea of how the University works," as well as interactiQns between students and profes­sors. She described herself as a "fan of Notre Dame" be­cause, she says, she "likes the people it attracts." 
AI Arevalo, vice-president of the MBA association, and Lisa Phipps, secretary and trea­surer of the MBA association, were also elected on April 7 along with Grieb. 

Senate OK's bylaw suspension 
By JENNIFER GRONER 
News Staff 
In its last meeting of the se­mester, the Student Senate voted to suspend a provision in the bylaws of the undergradu­ate constitution that prohibited funding to non-service organi­zations whose members did not pay dues. 
The by-law was formed to in­sure that organizations would give an accurate account of the number of their members when applying for funding by requir­ing members to make a mone­tary contribution. Because the by-law was passed so late in this year, the senate is allowing non-service organizations to receive student activity fun­ding next year without requir­ing members to pay dues, but the by-law will be reinstated for the following year of 1989-1990. 
The Senate also approved the appointed student government cabinet and the student activity fee budget for the 1988-89 aca­demic year. In addition, Mike Carrigan was approved as par­liamentarian. 
In addition, preliminary results of the student govern­ment survey/questionnaire on the Task Force reports were also announced. The offical results will be released on Wed­nesday of this week. 
The last meeting of the sen­ate for this semester was delayed last night because of poor attendance which resulted in a lack of a voting quorum. 
A quorum was eventually achieved after several phone calls were made. According to student body vice president Mike Paese all of the members of the senate were contacted prior to the meeting to encour­age them to attend. "I am sort of angry, everyone knew of the importance of this meeting," Paese said of the delay. 
Student body president Tom Doyle also commented saying, "I think this makes the prob­lems that could arise in the fu­ture painfully obvious. We will not tolerate this next year. We need everyone to attend, and the meetings to start on time. This is the only way we can make the meetings run effi­ciently." 


Getting the scoop 
While students were studying, Zachary Scott grounders hit by his father. 
luxuriated in the sun on the North Quad, fielding 
Defense 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --The judge in the Iran-Contra case barred defense testimony Monday at a 
pretrial  hearing  because  
lawyers  for  Marine  Lt.  Col.  
Oliver  North  and  two  co­ 

defendants violated the ground rules of the proceeding. 
Before beginning a hearing on whether independent coun­sel Lawrence Walsh impermis­sibly used the compelled con­gressional testimony of the three defendants, U.S. district Judge Gerhard Gesell sternly warned North, former National Security Adviser John Poindex­ter and businessman Albert Hakim about complying with his orders. 
Since lawyers for the three defendants did not give Walsh's office timely notice of the tes­timony it proposed to submit at the hearing, Gesell said the defense would not be able to present a witness. 
"The independent counsel 
testimony 
complied with the letter to the order, the defense ignored the order" and "decided to engage in some kind of outreach pro­gram," the judge said, refer­ring to defense attempts on Friday to subpoena documents from Walsh's office. 
Gesell stayed the subpoenas 45 minutes after they were served on Walsh and eight members of his staff. 
"The orders of the court are going to be complied with," Gesell said. 
"We are going to proceed, whether the atmosphere is one of confrontation and name­calling or not," the judge told the defendants and their lawyers, who had accused Gesell in court papers of setting up a procedure that "makes a mockery" of their clients' rights. 
Gesell reminded the defen­dants that under the rules of criminal procedure he had "exclusive responsibility" to 
barred 
conduct the trial and pretrial proceedings. 
Walsh contended in court papers last week that the defense violated Gesell's April 13 order by missing last Thursday's deadline for giving him information about the wit­ness it proposed to present at the hearing. 
Barry Simon, one of North's lawyers, denied that the defense had violated the court order. 
When Monday's hearing got under way, Walsh took the wit­ness stand and described elab­orate procedures used to prevent investigators and prosecutors from exposure to the testimony that North, Poin­dexter and Hakim gave to Congress last year under lim­ited grants of immunity from prosecution. 
The defense contends that forcing the three men to stand trial would violate their Fifth Amendment right against self­incrimination. 

-----------~~~ ----~---~-~ 
page 4 
Electrician now a martyr 
Associated Press into a crazy man. It turns a shy man into an angry man." 
BETHLEHEM, occupied The clearest evidence of the West Bank --Salim Shaar al­change in Salim is in his diary, ways liked fixing things. He a frayed notepad from a spent the last afternoon of his souvenir shop lovingly life laying new tiles on the fam­preserved by his family. It ily porch and wiring new lights. speaks of his growing despera­
He planned to finish the job tion. the next day, after a morning of throwing stones at Israeli "I don't dream about toys soldiers. But a soldier thought anymore, mother," Salim he saw a firebomb in Salim's wrote in an entry directed to hand, and the next time Salim his mother, Fatmah, several crossed the porch he was weeks before his death. "When carried, with a bullet hole in they killed my friends I grew his head. up a thousand years." 
On an afternoon two weeks When the violence began later, members of the family Dec. 8, Salim was a good­sat at home sipping strong natured young man devoted to Arab coffee and talking about his job, who often stopped at the shy, 23-year-old electrician, the homes of neighbors after Bethlehem's first martyr of the work to see if anything needed Arab rebellion that began fixing, his family says. nearly five months ago in the "People appreciated him, Israeli-occupied lands. and his work made him hap­
"This uprising changes py," said his brother 
everyone," said Salim's father, Mohammed, 21. "He didn't 
Khalil. "It turns a sane man have any great ambitions." 
The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1988 
Israelis cheer death sentence 
Associated Press ...The blood of the victims and muttered, apparently in 
still cries out to us." prayer. 
JERUSALEM --A judge "Ivan the Terrible" The 14-month trial in a sentenced John Demjanjuk operated the gas chambers converted movie theater on Monday to die for Nazi at Treblinka, where 850,000 was only the second in Israel war crimes and said the Jews were killed in 1942-43. of someone charged with retired Ohio autoworker per­Demjanjuk was convicted Nazi crimes. More than sonally killed tens of last week. 250,000 people attended and thousands of people as the sessions were broadcast live sadistic death camp guard The judge, who was born on radio and television. "Ivan the Terrible." in Poland and lost his par­Adolf Eichmann, who di­
Hundreds of spectators ents in the Holocaust, said rected Adolf Hitler's pro­jumped to their feet and ap­Demjanjuk "served as an gram for exterminating plauded. Some shouted arch henchman who with his Jews, was tried in Israel and "Bravo!" and others own hands killed tens of hanged in 1962. "Death! death!" Survivors thousands of human beings. of the Holocaust, in which 6 He humiliated and degraded Court spokesman Yossi 
million Jews were killed, his victims." Hassin said Demjanjuk also cried and embraced each Minutes before the sen­probably would be executed other. tence was read, Demjanjuk by hanging "if the sentence 
Judge Zvi Tal said Dem­shouted in Hebrew: "I'm an is upheld on appeal." janjuk's crimes at the innocent man!" John Demjanjuk Jr., the Treblinka death camp in Demjanjuk, 68, was in a defendant's 22-year-old son, Nazi-occupied Poland could wheelchail" because of back sobbed silently. He said the "never be forgiven by the problems. He is a Ukrainian family had expected a death hearts of men or be Orthodox Christian and sentence and would appeal obliterated from memory. crossed himself repeatedly within days. 
Soldiers tighten security
1. Phil Margoff 52,600 
Associated Press are expressing frustration with Prophets near the walled Old
2. Mike "Coma" Meyer 33,844 
the failure of underground City.
3. 
Carl "Chip" Starn 31 '121 JERUSALEM --Police ar­leaders to provide enough fin­The 14 shop owners could 

4. 
Mary "I Love Stanford" Berger 13,582 rested Jerusalem wholesalers ancial aid to offset economic face up to two years in jail. Monday who were said to be sanctions imposed by the Is­They opened their stores


5. Tim "Buddha" Kirk 9,532 
helping the Palestinian rebel­raelis. across from the Damascus
6. 
Mike Hawley 7,288 lion in the occupied lands, and "The Palestinians are asking Gate at 2 p.m., abiding by the 

7. 
Greg "Boo" Andreas 6,862 soldiers confiscated identity where is all the support money PLO order, and police closed cards of several dozen Arabs the underground leadership them three minutes later. 


8. Patrick "Trish" Timon 6,850 
accused of inciting violence. said it would provide," said Israeli authorities want Arab 
9. 
John Dice 3,689 Military spokesmen said a Mubarak Awad, an Arab­merchants to open all day, but 

10. 
Dave Tyndall 3,599 navy patrol craft sank a rubber American who promotes non­leaders of the rebellion have or­boat off the Lebanese coast violent resistance to Israeli dered stores opened only in the 


11 . Nan Sauer 1,553 
before dawn, killing an un­rule. afternoon. Army instructions
12. 
Mike "Butt Ugly" Paese 1,444 determined number of Pales­He added, however: "the Monday were that shops on the 

13. 
Molly Baker 1,228 tinian guerrillas. Israel radio people are frustrated, but they Street of the Prophets remain said two guerrillas were in the aren't giving up." closed.


14. P. Kevin Trautner 1,100 
boat. Soldiers ordered shops in Cohen said: "Indictments
15. 
Eric "Kondola" Nelson 500 Israel radio said loss of their Bethlehem and Jerusalem to will be handed up in a few days, 

16. 
Bill Delaney 370 documents would prevent the stay closed Monday afternoon. and the matter will be brought Gaza Strip Palestinians from Underground leaders of the before the court." 


17. Maureen "Ugly Mo" Kelly 226 
entering Israel. It said the Palestine Liberation Or­A merchant who locked his 
18. 
Lisa "Really Ugly" Abbot 216 Arabs also were ordered to ganizaation leaders told them shop while watched by police 

19. 
Craig Brummell 127 check in with Gaza police twice to open. said: "There's no law which a day. Soldiers in Bethlehem says when you must open or


20. Chris McCarthy 125 
At least 173 Palestinians welded shut the doors of six close." 
21. 
Dave "The Ugly Accountant" Lese 105 have been killed since riots shops that followed PLO in­Crowds of shoppers 

22. 
Sean "I'm a Lame Dude" Fieber 40 began Dec. 8 among the 1.5 mil­structions. In Jerusalem, police patronized open shops. on lion Arabs of the occupied West arrested 14 merchants who nearby streets.


23. Tucker Woods 37 
Bank and Gaza, which Israel opened their shops. When asked why the Street 
24. 
John "The Iguana" Shipman 24 captured from Jordan and "Whoever is given an order of the Prophets was singled out, 

25. 
Erin Barthelemy 15 Egypt in the 1967 war. An Is­must follow it," said A vi Cohen, Cohen replied: "You have to raeli soldier and Jewish settler a senior Jerusalem police offi­start somewhere." But Nabil


26. Mike Lynch 10 
also have been killed. cial who watched riot police Feidy, a merchant on Saladin 
27. 
Digger Phelps 10 Violence has declined in the and officers on horseback close Street close by, said those ar­

28. 
Paul "Smelly Velli" Carvelli 10 past few days and Palestinians the stores on the Street of the rested were wholesalers. 


overtaken at the end. Starn resorted to other fund 
Hey Students!
"We ran a clean campaign, raising means, notably includ­
UMOC 
The semester is almost over! Time to start thinking about
but we came in third," said ing swallowing a goldfish in Starn. "But I know that I'm South Dining Hall. "I'll prob­
how you are going to get your stuff home. RYDER TRUCK 
continued from page 1 
truly ugly.'' ably send a picture (of the 
RENTAL is running a special on all size trucks. Rent a 
to-door in girls' dorms with a Starn said that funds were goldfish swallowing) to Mom ­
truck, take a couple of friends home with you, and split
picture of Marzolf taped to a raised at collections after Glee she'll gag," said Starn. 
the cost. Like to Rock and Roll when you drive home
glass, asking for donations. His Club and Chorale rehersals. He Competition is already 
across the country? Several models of our trucks now
staff also campaigned in Flan­noted that most of his donations heating up for next year's 
offer cassette players. Why listen to a static AM radio the 
ner Hall, afterwards putting were just pennies and nickles, UMOC competition. Said Starn, the pennies and nickels into and not the large ($10 and $20) "There's always next year. I 
whole way home. It's a long journey, you might as well 
coin rolls. 
make it as comfortable as possible. We can guarantee
bills which some of his compe­will clearly be as ugly then asStarn, who directs the Glee tition received. I am this year.'' 
you a 1985 or newer vehicle with an AM-FM radio, power
Club and Chorale, was upset 
steering, power brakes. Call the following number for your 
about his loss, noting that he 
discounted rate. 219-277·3554
was the early favorite in the 
Triple Prize-Winner:
UMOC competition but was 
Queen Sofia (Madrid, 1979) Munich International (1976) Gu/lar '15 lnlernalfonal 
SHARON ISBIN Guest Guitar Recital 
TUESDAY, APRIL26, 1988,8:00 P.M. WASHINGTON HALL TICKETS: $5.00; $4.00 with Notre Dame ID 
presented by 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music University Artist Series
If)OO're !Pi~ to drink am dri-.e 
aileeN let tre rest of us knoo~ 
Reader's Digest 



----------~---~-~----~-~~--··--~------_. ---------------~ ~-­
Tuesday, April 26, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Poem: Shakespeare's work or much ado about nothing? 
Associated Press  ence Monday--four days after  perts claim that the poem has  notice."  written it?" Levi said.  
LONDON--By thee or not by thee? That was the question that swirled around a poem an Oxford University professor said is by William Shakespeare but other scholars rejected as false. "I'm convinced it is by Shakespeare," said Oxford's professor of poetry, Peter Levi, as he held up a photocopy of the untitled poem at the center of the tempest. Levi called a news confer- his claim emerged in a London newspaper--to introduce a 28 page book he has written to prove the poem was written by The Bard. Counters Professor Stanley Wells, director of the Shake­speare Institute at Birming­ham University said: "I do not think for one moment it is by him." The controversy has spread to the Huntington Library in San Marino, Calif., which has the disputed poem. Some ex- been known of since 1801, and some say it's not up to Shakespearean standards. Levi has support from a man­uscript scholar, Eric Sams, who says the poem may even be in Shakespeare's handwrit­ing. "I don't terribly mind what happens to my reputation," said Levi. "It would be a ter­rible act of cowardice not to have printed as a poem of Shakespeare what other people were too idle or too silly to  He said he first read the un­titled poem when he asked the Huntington Library for photocopies of several manuscripts for his Shake­speare biography. The poem is pasted in the back of a manuscript volume containing a play by John Marston, a dramatist contem­porary of Shakespeare, and bears initials that could be "WSH" or "WSK." "I think it is 'W. Sh.' Other­wise why would Marston have  "Without that signature I would not have been absolutely certain, but no one disputes that the writing is Marston's and I believe he was appending the initials of the poem's au­thor." Asked why the poem had been neglected since Shake­speare died in 1616, Levi com­mented: "I can't imagine. The verses have movement like the end of 'The Tempest.' They recall 'As You Like It' and 'An­tony and Cleopatra.'  
ND Award Finalist Announced  

By HEIDI SCHLUMPF In addition to living at Dis­The award is sponsored by mas House, Dempsey par­Campus Compact, a na­
News Staff 
ticipates in the In­tional network of collegeand 
Senior Tim Dempsey was mate{)utmate Program at university presidents. chosen as a finalist for the the Indiana State Peniten­Robinson Social Service tiary at Michigan City. He "Campus Compact is a Award for his work with in­also has given presentations kind of umbrella organiza­mates and ex-offenders. about Dismas House to tion of colleges and univer­
The award honors five stu­teachers at Westville sities in the country to share dents each year who have Prison, students at St. information and promote the performed outstanding Joseph's High School and idea of social service," said public service in the past 12 classes at Notre Dame. University President Father months and have developed Edward Malloy. Malloy at­innovative approaches in Malloy chose Dempsey as tended the group's last set community service. Notre Dame's nominee for of meetings in Washington 
Although Dempsey was the award from three D.C. last February. He not selected as one of the five finalists. Ken Kollman, nominated Dempsey for the to receive $1,500 for a project leader of Notre Dame's vol­award in March. proposed in their applica­unteers for the homeless tions, Dempsey did qualify shelter, and Lisa Buonac­Dempsey hopes to con­
as a finalist. corsi, who did a summer tinue his work in social ser­
Dempsey, a major in En­service project helping preg­vice after graduation. "I glish and philosophy from nant teenagers, were the might be working as a house Arlington, Va., lives at Dis­other finalists. director at a Dismas House, 
mas House, a half-way "I think the strength of and I'm also considering house where students live Tim's service is in the crite­Covenant House," he said. with ex-offenders. He also rion of the innovative ap­serves as a volunteer at Hot­proach," said Kathy Royer, "I've been active in social line, a crisis intervention coordinator for ser­service all through high service in South Bend. vice-social action groups at school and even in grade 
"I think social service the Center for Social Con­school because my whole work is important because cerns. "The Dismas House family is very involved," he it's a way of putting my re­approach is very innovative said. "I hope to continue that ligious convictions into ac­and that put him above the involvement thoughout my tion," Dempsey said. others." life." 
GMAT Najib offers to withdraw 
Associated Press withdrawal would allow the es­U.N.-mediated agreement timated 3 million Afghan signed April 14 in Geneva by
LSAT KABUL, Afghanistan--Pres­refugees in Pakistan to return the United States, the Soviet ident Najib on Monday offered home. Union, Afghanistan and Pakis­to withdraw Afghan troops However, the proposal ap­tan.
MCAT 
from their posts near the Pakis­peared to be little more than a tani border if anti-communist face-saving acknowledgement The United States, China and GRE& guerrillas and Pakistan agree of the difficulties the Afghan several other countries have to do the same. army is having against been aiding the Afghan guerril­"We are ready to create a onslaughts by anti-communist las via Pakistan. The SovietNCLEX 
non-military line" between Af­guerrillas based in Pakistan Union arms the Afghan mili­ghanistan and Pakistan, Najib and supplied with U.S. and tary forces. Each superpower said at the opening of celebra­Chinese weapons. has reserved the right to con­tions marking the lOth anniver­Soviet troops entered Af­tinue its assistance as long as sary of the Afghan revolution ghanistan in 1979 to help quell the other one does.
RANSFER TO YOUR HOME TOWN! 
that installed a Soviet-backed an uprising by a guerrilla front. The guerrillas, who were not ET HOMESTUDY PACKETS NOW! government. The Soviet Union has agreed direct party to the Geneva ac­
Najib told an assembly of to start withdrawing its esti­cord, have vowed to continueFFER GOOD ONLY IN SOUTH BEND. I three small parties loyal to his mated 115,000 troops from Af­fighting until Najib's govern­government that such a ghanistan on May 15 under a ment is overthrown. 


~· Niece testifies on cyanide deaths 
Associated Press charges of causing death by murder of her husband by tampering with over-the­making it look like one of a se­
* Expires 6/15/88 SEATTLE --Stella Nickell, counter capsules, plotted to kill ries of random poisonings. 
accused of killing her husband Bruce Nickell to collect insur­Ms. Stewart, who lived in and another person with ance. Houston at the time of the June c cyanide-laced Excedrin cap­Mrs. Nickell is charged in the 1986 deaths, testified that Mrs. sules, "seemed irked at every­deaths of Nickell, 52, and of Nickell seemed upset during a thing" and wanted to leave her Susan Katherine Snow, 40, who telephone conversation in May home a month before the died after ingesting poisoned 1986 and "wanted to know if she deaths, a niece testified Mon­capsules of Extra-Strength Ex­could come to Texas and stay
KAPLAN! 
day. cedrin. with me.''
STANLEY H KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER LTD. 
Wilma Stewart testified as Mrs. Nickell also faces three The world's leading test prep organization Mrs. Nickell's tampering trial counts of tampering with a Mrs. Nickell, who lived in the entered its second week in U.S. product involved in interstate Seattle suburb of Auburn, did 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WI ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
District Court. Mrs. Nickell's commerce in the tainting of not say anything specific had 
daughter, Cindy Hamilton, was capsules in two Extra-Strength happened but "just seemed 
expected to testify against her Excedrin bottles and an irked at everything."
1717 [. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-4135 
mother later in the day. Anacin-3 bottle that were
South Bend, IN 46637 
Prosecutors say Mrs. Nick­recovered in local stores. At the end of the conversa­
ell, the first person in the Prosecutors said Mrs. Nick­tion, though, Mrs. Nickell was 
United States to be tried on ell was trying to cover up the laughing, Ms. Stewart said. 

~---~:..Pa.:;~gLe:.......;..6_____ ---------~~--------------~--:~--_-_T:..:.h.:.:e:....O::::.~.::.~::.:•:.:.-~..:..~::.:r~~--------~~~=-=..._..=-==_=_:::::::::::=_=_=_=_=-===T=u=e=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=2=6,=1=9=8:,8--_-_-_-__ ------­
'Outstanding senior' 
to be awarded by 
SMC alumnae group 
By LISA MONTPETIT assistant director of Alumnae Relations. 
News Staff 
Nominees will be chosen 

The Saint Mary's College by senior class members, Alumnae Association will she said. present the Outstanding During the Fall 1987 Senior Award for the first meeting of the Alumnae 
time at the Alumnae-Senior Board of Directors, the need Brunch May 12. for such an award was dis­cussed and evaluated by the 
The honor will recognize a Student-Alumnae Commit­student who has exhibited tee, Fodor elaborated. deep devotion to Saint Just as the Valedictorian Mary's through her aca­and Lumen Christi Awards demic success, involvement are concerned with the in student and community "mind" and "soul" of Saint 
The Observer I Mike Moran activities, and her dedica­Mary's, the OutstandingReel Fun tion to the values, spirit and Senior Award will deal with mission of the College, ac­the "heart" of the College,
With the approach of finals, there seemed to be as brought this resident of South Bend to Saint Joseph's 
cording to Mary Beth Fodor, she said. 
many unfamiliar faces roaming the campus as those lake, where he tows in his most recent catch. of students. Michiana's sixty-degree thaw yesterday 
Bias 
continued from page 1 
court as an impartial ad­judicator." 
He was joined by Justices William Brennan, Harry Blackmun and Thurgood Mar­
shall. 
In a separate dissenting opinion, Blackmun said, "I am at a loss to understand the motiviation of five members of this court to reconsider an in­
terpretation of a civil rights statute that so clearly reflects our society's earnest commit­ment to ending racial discrim­ination and in which Congress so evidently has acquiesced." 
The court's majority said the dissenters were making it sound like the court was over­turning the 1976 decision. 
"We have, of course, done no such thing," the unsigned order issued by the majority said. "It is surely no affront to settled jurisprudence to request argu­ment on whether a particular precedent should be modified or overruled." 
The North Carolina case, argued last Feb. 29, now will be held over until the court's next term beginning in Octo­ber. A ruling is likely in 1989. 
Voting to rehear the case were Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Byron White, Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy. 
O'Connor, Scalia and Ken­nedy were appointed by Presi­dent Reagan, a critic of some high-court rulings he considers too liberal. 
Brenda Patterson, a black woman, wants to use a post­Civil War law to force her em­ployer, McClean Credit Union, to pay actual and punitive da­mages for alleged harassment. 
Lower federal courts said the law, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, is designed only to ban ra­cial discrimination in hiring firing and promotion-not racia harassment. 
Ms. Patterson still coull charge racial harassment un der a 1964 civil rights law. Bu the more recent law provide: that those who win their case: in court may collect back pay not potentially big awards a~ compensation for emotiona; and mental suffering. 
Civil rights groups say the more limited 1964 law may not be a sufficient deterrent to har­assment. 
t 
t 

' WHAT'S ADEGREE GOOD FOR? t
t

t t 
t
f

t t 
t
f 

t
f t

t 

t
f 

t
t 

( ) PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT t
t 

t 
' t
f ' ( ) $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD 
, t t ' f (JI') ALL OF THE ABOVE AT t t t
t Your Ford Force Dealer t t t
f t 

t 

t
t 

t
t 

t
t 

tt 
t
' ' t
t 

t t 
tt 
, t 
' t
t 

, At Yo4r Ford Force Deal~r your 
credit record, it must indicate pay­t ' degree is worth a lot. If you've ment made as agreed. tf graduateC.:, Jr will graduate, with a The $400 from Ford is yours 
Bachelor's or advanced degree whether you finance or not. Keep it tf between October 1, 1987 and Janu­or apply it to the purchase or lease 
t
f ary 31, 1989, you may qualify for of an eligible Ford or Mercury , $400 from Ford and pre-approved vehicle. t ' credit from Ford Motor Credit Com­For all the details, contact us or t pany. To qualify for pre-approved call Program Headquarters, toll free, t 
credit, you need: (1) verifiable at 1-800-321-1536. But hurry. This 
t
t employment beginning within 120 limited time offer is only available
Ford Motor
days after your vehicle purchase; between March 1 and December 31, t
' 

(2) a salary sufficient to cover Credit 1988. Take advantage of the
' 

f normal living expenses plus a car Company Ford/Mercury College Graduate t payment; and (3) if you have a 
Purchase Program now. 
tt 
t
t South Bend Motors Poulson Ford Jordan Ford Rochester Ford Walkerton Ford 
t
Akron Etna Green Mishawaka Rochester Walkerton
t 

t
t Bremen Ford Eby Ford Sales Oliver Ford Sales Kerlin Motor Company Rice Ford t Bremen Goshen Plymouth Silver Lake
t 
Warsaw 
t 
Fieldhouse Ford Tri·R Ford May-Harris Motor Sales Basney Ford of South Bend Jim Dobson Ford tt 
DoMotto """' Rom;ogtoo w;oomao I
t 

Pete Fall Ford Bobilya Ford Brooks Motor Sales ~b:k:r~~a Sales I(IJ;1•11 t
t 

Elkhart LaGrange Rensselaer · f 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


Business
Tuesday, April 26, 1988 • 
page 7 

Dukakis vs. Bush: We all lose 
By RICH COGLIANESE Business Writer 
As it appears now, the 1988 
presidential election will pit 
two different economic 
philosophies against each 
other. Republican candidate 
George Bush has the eco­
nomic philosophy of the 
Reagan administration. 
Democrat Michael Dukakis, 
however, is a Kenyesian 
economist. This will make 
for some interesting 
scenarios in the business 
world. November could very 
well set the tone for the eco­
nomy over the next four 
years. 
First, the "Massachusetts 
Miracle" is a fraud. The 
revival in the Massachusetts 
economy is due to tax cuts 
and increased military ex­
penditures. Gov. Dukakis 
has claimed credit for and 
promoted this "economic 
miracle" in Massachusetts. 
Massachusetts is just one 
of the states in the Northeast 
experiencing great eco­
nomic expansion. All of New 
England is experiencing 
rapid economic growth. 
Without the increase in the 
expenditures in the defense­
related businesses there, 
however, the expansion 
would not have been an eco­
nomic boom. 
Dukakis also has another 
flaw. He relies far too much 
on increased taxes. Many 
people who live in that state 
refer to it as "Taxac­
husetts." Taxes got so high 
a popular referendum was 
needed to lower tax rates. 
Gov. Dukakis initially op­
posed even this. 
These high tax rates on a 
national level would destroy 
the economic gains made 
over the last six years. In­
stead of being able to spend, 
both industry and the con­
sumer will have to hand over 
more money to the federal 
government. 
As Dick Addis would say, "The weather word for today is stormy." It is ob­vious that the market has been bouncing around with 
no real sense of direction. 
This is because of the in­
vestor uncertainty over who 
the next president will be. In 
Dukakis, one sees trouble. 
As long as the race stays 
close, the market will con­
tinue as is. As Dukakis' 
chances grow in the polls, 
the market will steadily 
decline. If Bush is able to 
start to pull away, however, 
expect a mid-to late-sum­
mer surge to take over the 
market. 
After that, "Bus­hanomics" requires some examination as well. As with everything else, it seems like Bush is a believer in supply side because Reagan converted him. Bush is a po­litical realist who under­stands it will be politically necessary to run in Ronald Reagan's shadow. During the 1980 Republican prima­ries, George Bush termed the economic system he has since come to love, "Voodoo economics." However, as with many other things, Reagan made Bush a true disciple. Wall Street will have the same uncertainty about George Bush. A Bush victory will bring a surge to the market but that could quickly become erased as questions over trade, the deficit and the value of the dollar all may spell prob­lems for both Bush and the economy as a whole. 
Assuming a Bush victory in November, the market surge will probably last only a couple of weeks (a man who has lived in the shadow of another does not get a long honeymoon). He will have to come out with a real plan to balance the budget and strengthen the dollar if Wall Street will be happy to see President Bush. 
If Dukakis is victorious in November, look for a steady drop in the market. The boys on Wall Street do not look kindly on his tax-and-spend economic policies. As wholesale prices climb up now, a Dukakis victory would probably spell the end for the boom in the market. Investors, then, are really looking at the lesser of two evils for the presidency. Both men raise suspicion with investors. But Bush causes a little less worry. 
THE CANNING BUSINESS 
DA 

......... .... . ...... ........... .. . 
SOURCE: U.S. News & World Report Figures do not add up to 1 00 because not all respondents were specific or answered both questions. 
TIME OF DAY EMPLOYEES GET FIRED 11% EARLY MORNING 18% MIDMORNING 3% NOON 17% EARLY AFTERNOON 21% LATE AFTERNOON 1% EARLY EVENING 
Geoffrey SauerfTHE OBSERVER 
The year in review: 
a look 
By MICHAEL J. F AEH­NER Business Editor 
As graduation rapidly ap­proaches, seniors look back on probably one of the best years of their life. Just like any other person, we begin to reflect on the past year. The past school year had its ups and its downs in the business world. Here are just a few highlights in which Domers will probably never forget. 
On the top of the business world news had to be Black Monday. Who can ever forget a 508 point frop in the Dow Jones in one day. How can anyone forget the record 600 million shares which were traded in that one day. 
Closer to the Dome, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, John Phelan, addressed the Notre Dame community about strong lead­ership for the financial commu­nity and the need for a greater sense of ethics instead of more regulation. 
Once again Notre Dame was blessed with another visit from another expert in his field. John Kenneth Galbraith, professor emeritus of economics at Har­vard University, delighted the student body with his analysis on capitalism and warned of the danger of bureaucratic ex­cesses and waste. 
One of the biggest events of this year had to be the visit of President Ronald Reagan. Reagan, who came to dedicate the 22-cent Rockne stamp, 
Dow up; 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Stock prices moved ahead in quiet trading Monday amid expectations of further signs of a healthy eco­nomic outlook. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials climbed 22.21 points to 2,037.30. 
Advancing issues outnum­bered declines by more than 3 to 2 in New York Stock Exchange-listed trading, with 939 up, 603 down and 470 un­changed. 
Big Board volume came to 
156.95 million shares, against 
152.52 million in the previous session. The NYSE's com­posite index rose 1.18 to 148.21. 
The government is due to 
at 1987-88 
praised the economy and urged 
America onward with 
prosperity. 
As Reagan dedicated the Rockne 22 cent stamp, a few days later the Post Office decided to raise the price of a stamp to 25 cents nailing Americans with an additional three cents. 
America saw the emergence of protectionism under the leadership of Congressman Richard Gephardt (D-Mo.), only to see it countered with a threatened Reagan veto. 
It was also the year that two leading experts on business in Congress decided to make a run for the White House. While Gephardt heralded protec­tionism all across the country, Congressman Jack Kemp (R­NY) trumpeted supply side and Reaganomics. Needless to say, both fell short of the Oval Of­fice. 
Americans began to worry more about the large budget deficits and placed it as one of the most important domestic issues facing the nation. The fear of Japan and the Far East became deeply embedded in the minds of many due to the competitive nature of the Jap­anese and the dramatic in­crease in Japanese investment in our country. 
Trade figures placed a damper on the economy, even though the dollar fell. The "buzz" word for the economy was recession, but it would be a year without one. 
The Fed's change in leader­ship from Paul Volcker to Alan Greenspan proved to be a smooth transition with little change in policy. Relations with the White House still were rocky. 
The Winter Olympics came and went in Calgary, Canada. February proved to be a good ratings month for ABC, but the loss from the games proved to be too much. 
Speaking of sports business, Tim Brown cleared some money on the superstars and the University picked up a clean $2.3 million for appearing at Dallas in the Cotton Bowl. (The real question is, if Coach Holtz can get that much, why can't Digger?) 
Adworks, the Cellar, and Irish Gardens finally got their independence from SUB and they finally get more say in how their stores are run. Oh yeah, the obvious, Notre Dame tuition is going up. 
Back to the real world, this year saw the end of an era and to one of the most successful slogans. Sure, remember "When E.F. Hutton talks, people listen." E.F. Hutton be­came a victim of mergermania and takeovers. 
Sure, there were a lot more other interesting highlights of the past school year, but hey, finals are coming up. As the senior class moves on, so an­other freshman class enters. Lets pray for a good market and a more exciting year, so that next year's "Year in Review" is a lot more interest­ing. 
market optimistic 
issue favorable reports Tues­Southern Co. led the active day on the progress of the eco­list, up in a blizzard of block nomy for the first quarter of trades focused on the compa­
the year and Friday in the in­ny's impending quarterly divi­dex of leading economic in­dend. Volume in the stock dicators for March. surpassed 28 million shares. 
Mobil rose to 47 and Exxon Nationwide turnover in was up to 44. Both companies NYSE-listed issues, includingreported strong first-quarter trades in those stocks on earnings. regional exchanges and in the 
Auto issues were broadly over-the-counter market, to­higher as the industry posted a taled 179.03 million shares. slight gain in mid-April domes­tic car sales. General Motors Standard & Poor's industrial 
rose to 74; Ford Motor to 47, index rose 2.91 to 305.83, and and Chrysler to 23. S&P's 500-stock composite in­dex was up 2.32 at 262.46. 
Other gainers among the The NASDAQ composite in­blue chips included General dex for the over-the-counter Electric, up to 41; Coca-Cola, market gained 1.23 to 375.27. At up 2 to 39; Procter & Gamble, the American Stock Exchange, up 1 to 78, and DuPont, up 1 to the market value index closed 84. at 298.95, up .92. 
The Observer Typesetting Service Is Now Hiring Students Typesetters For the 1988-89 School Year Call Chris Hasbrook at 239-7471 Through Wednesday 427 
Viewpoint 
.Tuesday, April 26, 1988 

P.O. Box Q 
..., 

Arabs left involuntarily 
Dear Editor: 
In his "Palestine: The Facts and the Myths," (The Observer, April20) Billy Lerman ventures on a historical detour in an attempt to justify the current draconian policies Israel is carrying out upon Palestinians in Gaza and on the West Bank. He invites us to shift· our attention back 40 years to the first of the five wars between Israel and her neighbors. Then, he asserts, the "Arab inhabitants of Israel. . .left of their own free will." Hence, any notion that they "were forced from their land ...at the hands of the Israelis.. .is logically as well as factually incorrect." He sup­ports this bizarre conclusion by citing what he pretends are concurring Arab sources. 
This stark perversion of the origins of the tragedy that binds Jews and Arabs to what Martin Buber called a "land of two peoples" belongs to a sadly familiar repertory of wild mis­representations lacking respect for either the tangled past or the ominous future of this crisis. Simply at face value, Lerman's argument displays abysmal gaps that neither his logic nor his facts can fill. If, for instance, the Arabs left voluntarily, how does he ex­plain the te.ns of thousands of victims on both sides, many of whom as re­ported these very days are utter in­nocents, desperate for refuge from the bombs or bullets that pierce their homes? Indeed, one wonders if Ler­man's definition of voluntary departure might not also extend to the Jews of Amsterdam who dutifully complied with the orders to report to the train station on a given day in 1944. 
To clarify matters, I suggest that 
Lerman test his hypothesis. Let him 
visit Palestinian residents of a camp in 
the occupied territories and take a poll, 
asking them if they left their homes and lands willingly. If he should be ham­pered by an Israeli soldier enforcing the curfew or ban on reporters, he can ask him if he is familiar with Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that dates from that same fateful year, 1948: ''Everyone has the right to leave any country, includ­ing his own and to return to his country." 
Finally, if Lerman seeks to increase his grasp of what prompted the flight of some Palestinians at this time he might turn to Israeli sources. For ex-
a a 
ample, in his book "The Revolt," former Prime Minister Menachem Begin openly describes his terrorist ac­tivities, including the admission that he was responsible for the massacre of the Arab village of Deir Yassin in April 1948, where 250 women and children were killed. The explicit and widely proclaimed threat that other Arab com­munities could suffer a similar fate will provide an important clue as to the mo­tives and intentions of those Palestinian civilians who evacuated a war zone in panic. Nor should an investigator over­look the chilling impact of the assas­sination of the United Nations negotiator, Count Folke Bernadotte in September of that year. This operation was carried out by the Stern Gang of which current Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir was then a commander. Or for a feminist perspective, he might read the account detailed by Geula Cohen, a member of the Knesset, in her book "Woman of Violence: Memoirs of a Young Terrorist: 1943-1948," which David Ben-Gurion recommends highly 
on the dust jacket. 

Perhaps investigating such less cel­ebrated dimensions in Israel's history will assist Lerman in his appreciation of certain continuities with that nation's policies of today. For now and not 1948 1s the moment in question. The hour is long past when we could afford to ig­nore, dismiss or deny any part of the relationship that defines the fateful con­junction of Palestinians and Israelis. Mutual recognition must come, and it can happen only through the courage to face as much truth as any of us can stand. 
Patrick D. Gaffney, C .S.C. Department of Anthropology University of Notre Dame April 24, 1988 
Office of Alcohol needs surveys 
Dear Editor: 

Last week a survey was sent out to 
a randomly selected cross-section of 
students to assess levels of alcohol and 
drug use at Notre Dame. It is essential 
to the Office of Alcohol and Drug Edu­
cation to have a large response rate to 
this, and I'm asking students who have 
received these surveys to take a few 
minutes, fill them out and mail them 
back. 

I'm aware of the quantity of work at 
this time of year, and also of the num­
ber of other surveys that have been sent 
out, but the information you give to us 
is vital to our work. 
Again, this is a confidential survey 
that will never be used to identify any 
mdividual or be used for purposes other 
than research and education. You have 
the protection of University policy, pro­
fessional and personal ethics, and 
federal law .to assure this. Thank you 
for your help. 

David Dannison Director, Office of Alcohol and Drug Education April 24, 1988 
Movie reinforces Christ's message 
Dear Editor: 

The Viewpoint letter from William A. 
Murray printed in the April 15 issue of 
The Observer about Monty Python's 
"Life of Brian" misrepresents the point 
of the movie. 

Murray states that "the movie presents Christ's life, crucifixion and ,ressurection as butts of jokes." But the imovie is about the life and crucufixion of Brian, not of Christ (who plays only an incidental part in the movie). This distinction is not mere casuistry: ''Life of Brian" does not satirize the life of Christ himself, but rather the lives of Christ's contemporaries--in particular, 
those Jews who were searching 
desperately for a leader to liberate 
them from Roman oppression. 
The Jewish masses were ready to fol­
low anyone who appeared powerful 
enough to be a likely candidate for the 
prophetic Son of Man. Jesus himself 
criticized them for this--they expected 
him to be a political rather than a spir­
itual Messiah, and when they found that 
his Kingdom was of Heaven and not of 
earth, they deserted him. Similarily, 
when Brian proved not to be what his 
followers had expected, they deserted 
him. 

It is in this sense that Brian is a Christ 
figure; in other respects, Brian is most 
certainly not intended to represent 
Christ. "Life of Brian" pokes fun at 
Jews and Romans of Christ's time, not 
at the Christian or Catholic faith. The 
object of the movie's disdain is the 
masses' false conception of what reli­
gion should be, not religion itself. 
Murray poses the question, "Is noth­
ing sacred?" Of course there are sa­
cred things, and Christ is one of them. 
Does "Life of Brian" violate the sacred­ness of Christ's life? I think not. If anything, it serves to reinforce Christ's message--that the many (in this case Jews and Romans alike) are all too likely to choose worldly power over spiritual humility. 
Narciso B. Jaramillo Cavanaugh Hall April19,1988 
Refugee camps tell real story 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Mr. Lerman's article "Palestine: the facts and myths" of April 20, I would like to mention a few facts that Mr. Lerman failed to men­tion. Mr. Lerman did not mention the Palmach, the hagannah, the Irgun and the Stern Gang, all Jewish terrorist or­ganizations that were carrying out massacres of civilians in 1948. Yes, the Palestinians fled because of the un­merciful war in 1948. Jewish armed men numbered 260,000; the Palestinian na­tional defense was a poorly armed 2,200 men. People fled for their lives and livelihoods; some people were forced at gun point to march to the border by Jewish armed guerillas. It is amazing that Mr. Lerman did not mention these facts. 
As a Palestinian American who grew up in the West Bank, I cannot speak for what the Arabs did or did not do. I only can speak about my family's experi­ences. Mr. Lerman did not mention the village of Yalu, home for 6,000 Pales­tinian villagers, which was destroyed by bombardment then razed to the ground and a public park erected in its place, hiding any previous human habitations. These are but a few exam­ples of why the Palestinians left their homes. Faced with such atrocities, I think Mr. Lerman would willingly leave his home and happily live in a refugee camp in a foreign l~nd. 
I cannot help but to be sarcastic of Mr. Lerman's simplistic views that two million Palestinians left their homes, farms and properties because they were told to do so and did that freely. I suggest a trip to a refugee camp in the Middle East to find out the real story. 
Joseph Araman Off-campus April 22, 1988 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................ ......... Chris Murphy Business Manager ......... . ........ John Ox rider Managing Editor ........................ ....... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Corda Advertising Manager ............. .... Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shi~s Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 

Accent 
Tuesday, April 26, 1988 page 9 
Notre Dame Folk Choir broadens its horizons 
The Observer Is looking for 
@W®If@®@@ ©@~lYJ!Ji1il[fi)~@~ 
who are interested in writing 
Contact Beth Healy 
239-5303 
COLLEEN CRONIN accent writer 
hose students who have T been able to drag them­selves out of bed before noon on a Sunday morning and at­tend mass at Sacred Heart Church have heard the Notre Dame Folk Choir perform. Most people probably didn't realize who they were listening to, but the Choir is gradually becom­ing more well known. 
Under the direction of Steve Werner who works with Campus Ministry, and student co-coordinators Rob Lofaro and Elizabeth Crummy, the Folk Choir consists of sixteen singers, most of whom are undergraduates. Add to that six Instrumentalists, whose talents range from the trumpet to the Celtic harp, and a new and dif­ferent sound emerges. 
Mr. Werner writes a m£\iorlty of the choir's music, but it also performs many of the same traditional son~s that are sung 
Picnic celebrates spring in style 
MAGGIE MACDONALD accent writer 
is the season when the T sunshine and the green grass lure us ail outdoors for picnics, baseball and ul­timate frisbee ... when young minds turn to thoughts of love ... and finals. This Tues­day evening the St. Mary's women of Holy Cross will cast aside thoughts of papers and exams. They will focus their attention, per­haps not on love, but on enjoying their dorm picnic in the company of Notre Dame men. 
Each section of Holy Cross has selected a section from various ND dorms for this mixer which is sponsored by Holy Cross' RA staff and Hall Council. According to Jill Tomko, Holy Cross resident. this mixer was done last year among RAs from Holy Cross and other dorms. 
This year the event will take place on a grander scale. "We decided to go all out this year, "said Tomko. And Indeed they have. In addition to a barbecue, the Holy Cross picnic will feature games ranging from volley-at weekly masses. The Choir makes the songs unique through their own combination of singing and music. "There is more harmonization and music," according to Lofaro, "which gives a fuller sound." 

The folk choir has been in existence for nearly a decade but is not yet widely known. To remedy this, some changes have been made. In particular, the Choir has "become more invoied in other liturgies on campus." · 
In addition to Sunday mass at Sacred Heart. it has per­formed at the Freshman Orien­tation mass at the beginning of the year at:Jd at the dedication masses for the Rolf Aquatic Center and the Loftus Sports Singers and Instrumentalists of the Notre Dame Folk Choir share their varied talents.
Complex. "The Administration 
is beginning to recognize us and two days after graduation to alternating yearly between 
let us do more things," com­mented Lofaro. 
Another project to "increase awareness and let more people know about us" is a trip to Ireland. The Choir will depart 
bail and "Twister" to "Duck 
Duck Goose". 
There will certainly be 
twisting and shouting going 
on in places other than on 
the Twister dots. Mistaken 
Identity will entertain at the 
event with a wide mix of 
songs_. 

According to bass and guitar player Mike Senkovich, "We do basically pop... neat. little fun songs." Vocalist Lisa Devereaux. drummer Dave Vreeland, keyboardist Tray Brown and bass/guitarist Mike Ury will perform such party delights as "Johnny Be Good," "La Bamba," a number of Beatles' tunes and a few originals by Ury. 
According to Senkovich, the band will play some pieces like they've never been played before. He said, "We're gong to have fun with the songs and we hope that everyone will have fun also." With the music of Mistaken Identity, and the efforts of the Holy Cross RA staff headed by Patty Quinn, the picnic will be a good opportunity--before the chaos of finals--to enjoy the spring season with friends. 
spend two weeks performing in foreign and American tours. Ireland. The irish-American Foundation is helping out If noon is just too early to financially, along with the Uni­wake up on a Sunday, the Folk versity. The Choir hopes to Choir is giving a concert this make touring a regular event, Wednesday at 9 p.m. at Sacred 
Three sons follow in I father's footsteps1 I 
•• •• •• ·• ., I 
Associated Press 
· The Veliine brothers started 
rocking at an early age, 
and it's easy to figure out why. 
Dad was a chart-topping pop 
star, the home stereo con­
stantly effused Eddie Cochrane 
tunes and the family went to 
Dick Clark's place for visits. 
"We grew up with eight 
guitars lying around," says Jeff 

Velline, 22, singer Bobby Vee's 
eldest son. 
"We were pretty much ex­
posed to it from an early age," 
added Robby, 20, guitar in 
hand. 
Jeff, Robby and Tommy, 2 L 
are the Vees, a St. Cloud 
brother-trio carrying on 30 
years of rock tradition in the 
Velline family. 
Their original music is by no 
means the only thing working 
for the Vees. They are using 
their father's private St. Cloud 
studio to record a local album. 
They also have worked up a 
set with Beej Chaney, former 
lead singer of the Suburbs, 
which will give them exposure 
in the Twin Cities. 
Robert "Bobby" Veliine, called The Big Vee by his sons. "They're light years ahead of me as far as where I was when I was their age." 
At their age, Bobby Vee had some gold records, including "Rubber Ball" and "Take Good Care of My Baby." 
Vee's 30 years in the busi­ness often translates into sage advice for his sons. He gives 
them pointers on performing. songwriting and on the busi­ness in general. Vee also will produce his sons' first album, which will be released on their own label or a local one. 
The Vees are working on their album nearly full time, putting aside --at least temporarily--their parents' wishes that they go to college. 
"For awhile they were on the school kick," said Tommy, the bass player. For now, however, Karen and Bobby Velline sup­port their sons' projects. 
Although music is a full-time occupation, the brothers say it's too early to talk about music as a career. And it's way too early, they say, to talk Heart Church. If anyone is In­terested in being a member of this unique group, simply make an appointment with Mr. Werner for an audition. And, yes, it is too late to become a member to go to Ireland! 
a regional level," said Jeff, the 
drummer and band spokes· 
man. "We're not in a big hurry 
for something to happen. We 
don't have any false illusions 
about the business." 
Through their high school years the brothers played in cover bands with other people. Last spring. after conflicts with the others, they decided to make it a threesome and do original material. 
Each member understands his role in the band. Jeff handles business, Robby does most of the writing and Tommy does the talking. marching and head-banging on stage. 
"I first was attracted to them by seeing them do a warm-up set for the Suburbs," Chaney said. "They're very levelheaded, very professional and they're really nice guys." 
In shows with Chaney, the Vees play about two sets of material alone. Then, Chaney joins them for a third set. and they mainly play Chaney's ma­terial. 
For their part of the shows. the Vees hope their original 
And, most important. the about matching their father's music catches on. According to brothers sound good together. six gold albums. Jeff, the band finds a catchy "They've been playing since "The highest of our expecta­tune, then everyone labors to they were 7 or 8," said father tions is to entertain people on find the perfect lyrics. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
~--------------~~---~~~---------~-.~~~------------~------------------------------~------------~ 
Tuesday, April 26, 1988
page 1 0 The Observer 
n.a..-NotAl o.meoffice, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, .cc:ept. clualfted ~ling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday througtl Frtdar. n.a.....Saint tAry's office, located on the third Hoor of H-ugwCollge Center, .cc:epta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtdar. Deadline for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
be pt11pakl, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five charKtera per day. 
Classifieds 
LOST: Black & gray pinstripe jacket at 1981 Olds Wagon 89000 miles Excel· Dude Cheri and Liana, Have I told you Tivoli's 4119. AND FOUND: Guy's black lent Condition New tires, brakes, car­We shed assets last week, our stock is Amy, 
that you suck? I have. Good!
jacket at Tivoli's 4119. I'm hoping we just borator. $2200 271.0765 switched jackets. Please call Mary Beth 
NOTICES way up Got a little PUNCHy Saturday 
Roomie £3 night? That's O.K.--your LUSHious 
4558. 76' ELDORADO 69000 MLS NO RUST TYPING AVAILABLE NO DENTS NEW EXHAUST $900 AL­self is allowed a slip occassionally! THE now
First there was SLUG
287-4082 Lost-Set of Keys on an ND ring Fri. af­PINE SYSTEM $3200 CALL ED AT 232 Maureen Kelly 
there is SLUGETTE. Her name-­
ternoon on South Quad # 81 4 on key 1198 AFTER 6 PM Thanks for coming up & visiting my Call Ted X1762 school (and Theresa's school, tool). Fin­Bernadette. Give her a call. Professors and grad-students: Pandora's AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ANIMALS FOR gerpainting, greasy pizza, speed­will buy your books. Call 233·2342 to baii...Whal's more could you want from TJE, Do you listen to The Who?
SALE 50% OF RETAIL PRICE # 232­
make an appointment. 10·5:30 7 Thanks for the personal.
1198 a weekend? Hint: The Sor;Jg is Over... day&Week P.S. -Thanks for the bucket and shovel! The Abdicated One
FOR RENT 
Moving oH campus?Wordproceaalng-Typlng 
Creating a party room? 
272-8827 NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO For Sale: Matching loveseat and Karen Julka, Guess what? Your You lake !he 4-North out of ih~..~y..b~t ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR armchair...chocolale brown strong wood The WORLD'S SMALLEST COMPLETE brother owns the personals section! you can't take the boy out of 4-North 6838889 frame, top condition, bought practically CIRCUS will be at NDIIII Don't miss the 

Good luck on your papers and tests
CALL 237·1949 FOR YOUR new, used only one semester...great Wackiest of the Wednesday's events. T~; .~~ .b~~k·~~B;~~~~i~k~. ~ijj·;;;~k~ the WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 
6-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR price...call2170... in lime for hall storage. Come see the show from noon until 1 :30 Cards fly high CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER al the Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by 
························· 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. 

OR 9 MO LEASE FOR FALL.272-6306 81 Chevette· 70,000 mi. Runs Student Government and CSC Who was that girl in the pink?CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 To Jeb You manly hunk of 
great, nice Interior, $1150. Of course, she is love
meat my pass1on for you drips like spitFOR RENT 3 BR HOME SUPER CLEAN Call Paul 1530 THE CIRCUS IS COMING 
off the wall. I only think of you twice(dayINSID&OUT, WITH GARAGE. WALK TO TOMORROW I!!I! Wed. from noon until and night). How about playing a few head Alison you a;e the be~l DE..~~~;~~··~~·­TYPING 
CAMPUS. $470 MONTH NEG. CALL 1 :30 at the Fieldhouse Mall games, you psycho god? If interested tience, attitude & such a diligent worker PICKUP & DELIVERY 
LEN AT 234-7650 OR JOHN 232-3972. 
call x3663 XOXO THE CALLER
277-7406 Smith-Corona XD6500 Is it too !ale? 
Mem. Writer;w'spellwrite ,xtr.printwheel,low 
Have A Coke And A Smile A. Bud for UMOC
ATTENTION anyone looking for big$ torm1leage $300;684.0538. 
Roger for UDOC WORD¢PLUS 
LARGE, FURNISHED STUDENT a good couch (preferably light color) call 
HOUSE available lor summer andbr x1700 or 1061
Scholastic Typin9'Edit1ng 1978 4-Door VW Rabbit 92,000 ;;;;j~~·.
tall session on NO Ave. 255-5852 Doubling the previous record? 
Rush Jobs O.K. $1100 call 288-6154 
We'll see ... 

evenings. LIZ,KELLIE,TRISH&PATTY:Thanks for
256·3077 "HIRING! Government jobs"!!eur area. 
making my 19th Birthday so speciai!You We still have to make it until Friday$15,CJ00.$68,000. Call (602) 838-8885. 
Plan for FALL! Large 5 bedroom house can coach me anytime lit was a weekend
Ext. 6262. ·i~ ·;:~·rti~·c~~k
near campus. Furnished or unfurnished. MOVING SALE: double mattress, I'll never forget.Y'all are my beslesl sum~~~-·s~bi~t·:;;~~t~ · Computer Art Fair Also available for summer. Call272-7258 nightstand, bureau, 2 sets of drapes, friends! Love,Colleen or other close-to-campus location. 
Friday, April 29 in Ailey Hall Room 200. DEAR DEDE, HAPPY TWO YEAR AN­
endtables, bookshelves all musl go. Prefer one-bedroom, but not that picky.Come see the latest in Interactive Art, NIVERSARY.! MISS YOU SO BAD, AND 
Call Andy al x 1 699 Videodisks, and Computer Music at 4 I WISH I COULD BE WITH YOU. LOVE
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR Details call277-7t37 JOAN, PATTY, EMA,THE DOUBLE 
SUMMER RENT CALL ERIC X·1606 BLONDE, KATHY MATH MAJOR,
p.m. and Computer Animation Videos at FOREVER. SAN
AN TOSTAL JANET, LAURA, THANKS FOR THE Joke of the week:5 p.m. Don't miss the most innovative 
WANTED T-SHIRT KIDKNAPPING & THE PICNIC. IT WAS John, IOU fitly cents
computer and art work Notre Dame has NEEDED: ROOMMATE West Chicago
ROOMMATE FOR APARTMENT IN LIQUIDATION A "BIRTHDAY" WE'LL NEVER FORGET! 
seen in years. bulbs-Oak Park area, call Jane (SMC
GEORGETOWN FROM JUNE TO AU­$5 GOOD LUCK ON FINALS & HAVE A GUST. GREAT LOCATION AND X1951 87) 312-482-7289 GREAT SUMMER! LOVE, SHELLEY & FLANNER HALL, especially RM.401,
Going to TENNESSEE??ride needed to 

REASONABLE PRICE. CALL STEVE THE TARAIST salutes JACK A. BROGAN on theKnoxville area,S.S or fY7. Will share cost. 
X1654 RIGHT TO LIFE PARTY .......•.................. celebration of his 2oth B-DAY. Con­
Not much luggage. call Tanja, X2843. 

WED. 27, s-1:00 esc LAST CHANCE DO MET-SHIRTS "2322 gratulations to "AMERICA'S FRIEND". PIZZA & POP REMEMBER. GOOD GUYS FINISHCOMPUTING CENTER Officers, Reps, Faculty, Volunteers HEY TIFF -THAT'S RIGHT,YOU!HAPPY FIRST!
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 

WELCOME! BIRTHDAY FROM THIS CRAZY ....................
The Computing Center is now taking ap­APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB-LET ROCK'N ROLL SINGER WHO IS DIG· ED HICKEY Thank you for standing in
TICKETS
plications for Fall '88 student employment 2 BDAM IN TURTLE CREEK GIN' YOU LIKE AN ARTIFACT-THAT'S as a witness to my parents' car accidentwithin the User Services group. Positions PREF. FEMALE RENTERS FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES· RIGHT,YOU!I HOPE YOUR B-DAY IS 4-22. I really apprec1ate your kindness. 
are available in both microcomputer and CALL JENNY 284-4289 
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR. GRADUA­COAT. 38,000 MI. CALL 271-0868. THE BEST EVER-I'M AT YOUR DIS­--Mary Beth
multi-user system areas. Experience preferred, but not required for the appli­

TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR SHOW DAN JANSEN ND CARES. $ POSAL.ANY REQUESTS? LOVE, G BRIAN FOR LEUKEMIA. CHECKS PAYABLE Before You Demonstratecation process. Freshmen, sophomores, 
TO PEBBLE BEACH, 1111 GRACE, AND Before You Boycottand women are especially encouraged Before You Protest 
to apply. For more information, contact HELP!! I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big NOTRE DAM~JANE BERES ANY ONE WHO HELPED TO PUT UP
WANTED 
$$$ Call Heidi 233-4176 LEUKEMIA FUND CQ TRUSTCORP WITH THE BOY FROM HELLII!I!!!! Make Sure You Vote FirstLisa at239-5t53 from 8:30a.m. to 5:00 LAFORTUNE THANK YOUIII!I!II! SORRY ABOUT p.m. Monday -Friday or stop by Room 
OUR FAMILIES ARE COMIN·G·ALLTH.E ALL THE TROUBLE!! I LOVE YOU
11 of the Computing Center. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATEA SPORTS WAY FROM PUERTO RICO, SO WE ALLI!II!I!II!I! 
TICKET SALES FOR SENIOR MONTH 
ACTIVITES!II Mon-Thurs, 3-5 pm, in thePRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK NEED 10 GRADUATION TIX. WILL PAY SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER 
25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT, KARA ENGLANDI!If!!! KARA EN­Notre Dame Room of LaFortune A limited CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP GLANDI!I!I!II! Congrats on number of tickets are available so gel MOUNTAINS ANY PRICE. CALL 277-72611
LOST/FOUND 

I NEED 1 GRAD TIC $DAN 234-5346 COURSES. NOW THRU 6-15-88 FOR Bookstore!!!!! You terminated them !I!!! your tickets now!! TICKET SALES FOR SOUTH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. 
INGS 914 3814224 

SENIOR MONTH ACTIVITES!!! HELP! We need grad tix real bad. If TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA • There's a difference between su11e 233FOUND: Set of car and office keys on a 
SAVE $$$'S!!! CALL 272-4135 FOR IN· and hell but I can't figure out what. For Sale
Notre Dame key ring. Slop by room 1 0-S you've goI any to spare call Dan 1434 Two good-looking roommates with
FO. 

or Yvonne 288-0943. WE WILL PAY. 
diplomas, a loft with iron ladders, a bottle in Stepan Chemistry Building between 8 
CHICAGO ROOMMATE NEEDED of champagne and w1ne, two ex's, two
GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION
a.m. and 1 p.m. to collect them. NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS.
Graduating in May? Working in Chicago? a faculty panel will discuss research, ap­Go to any singles bars lately? adorable little sisters. bullhorns, a saxop­
CALL JOSE 3346.
Looking for a roommate? Call me plication, selection. April 27, 4:00 p.m. hone, a file cab~net, a carpet with foam Lost: AI Senior Formal; A black purse padding, a bowling MVP trophy, a dis­
STEVE G. 289-9233 Notre Dame Room (LaFortune). All To the girl who was giving free towel ································································ classes and majors invited. JUNIORS en­shows in Walsh on Sat-Whattime is the tributorship, a George Bush sticker, a with a Kodak camera inside and a Vivitar 
camera in a gray case! If found please NEED GRAD TIX $$$$ 288-8730 $$$ briefs column, a Ch1cago apartment
couraged to attend. Sponsored by Career next show because I want front row seals. 
call George at 287.0753 or Kathleen at 

SENIORS: LivingWorking in Wash. D.C. & Placement Services. lease, and a LA beachhouse. If you know 
...your local nut284-4288!!11 

next year? Need a ROOMMATE? Call who. stop by or call about our open house JOHN at x1666 this week.
HAPPY 19TH TIFFANY I
LOST: LIZ CLAIBOURNE PURSE AT I know you hate communicating this FRESHMAN FORMAL. MY I.D. AND PERSONALS 
REMEMBER-WISE MAN SAY: IT'S 
DESPERATE AND WILLING TO way, but they needed me to fill SUMMER SCHOOL? Need 2 room·
ALL RELATIVE-JUST RUN IT UNDERKEYS PAY...for graduation tickets call Monica space, so I'm taking the opportunity COLD WATER Ill HAVE A GROOVY mates NO Apts. CHEAPE.R THAN 
ARE INSIDE SO GIVE ME A CALL AT OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
# 3938 DORMS Mike x4328 or Marty 239-6041 
284-5182. REWARD! REWARD! CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE to say thanks for every single mo­DAY I LOVE, SHEA 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ment that went unwasted. And for wants travel prtner-Call 3938 forgiving me for those that were. 4pm ALUMNI HALL PARTY ROOM 
Want to go to Europe? Female senior GIVE BLOOD TUES. & WED. lOam ­
LOST: SCARLET OHIO STATE U. LET· si~;;~~i~~ ..·s;,i...~~~~ ...~~-~~~~;;;;· ..~i~;~ D TOP FIVE ROTO QUOTES OF '88 C 
L.S. from the home office of Regina 5."There's
TER BLANKET AT STEPAN COURTS books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808
Looking for used Mac BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT
a novel idea!" 4."YOU are a serious idiot!" call Todd at 1639 with model and price LIVE ALUMNI HALL TUES. & WED.
DURING BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL. Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7days'Neek ············································-···· 3."Aick, the little sailor boy." 2.1 believe GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION lOam -4pmCALL BILL SEXTON AT 23H123. 233-2342 
the quote was, "You are never doing a faculty panel will discuss research. ap­
anything with him again!" !."Circle what GRADUATING? MOVING TO IN­plication, selection. April 27, 4:00 p.m. AME -I WANT TO BE JUST LIKE FSSI! 
LOST: brown leather wallet with every· ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st 
doesn't belong in this picture!"DIANAPOLIS? LOOKING FOR FEMALE Notre Dame Room (LaFortune). All
thing valuable in ~. Please return it to me Source Bank will finance your car pur­
and i will give you a reward. If you're a chase For more information call Ellen
TO SHARE APT OR HOUSE. CALL 277-classes and majors invited. JUNIORS en­Balt..Wash.DC area RITA AND TINA
RIDE NEEDED to 5906 couraged to attend. Sponsored by Career ONCE WE SAW YOU IN YOUR TOGAS, 
blonde 6' male and want to keep the Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
after graduation Rob # 1204 & Placement Services. WE DECIDED NOT TO GO TO M.J.'S
minnesota license as a fake id be my 

guest but please give me back the copy ········································ ~rt·~~~---j~~~ ··s·MWMAZDMiVI···Ail 
RELIABLE person looking for fully fur-WE DON'T NEED SMC'S OR PORNOS
·············································-················· Returning this to whom it concerns: He nished private apartment or house for the For Sale M plane ticket to anywhere in is so wonderful, Generous and TO KNOW YOU DON'T QUALIFY AS
card,insurance cards, and instant cash JETT AS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends 
Ever summer. Call 3765. US Valid thru 1AI9. Call: Chris x1747 REAL WOMEN. TINA, APPAAENTL Y 
card for my bank at home. and give me April 30th 
charming. I will be happy without him,w-B<l. YOU COULDN'T HANDLE SEVENthe nd id because ij doesn't do you any 
bul Such is the fate of his princess.NEED RIDERS TO MPLS. LEAVING 5'5 INCHES, SO YOU WENT TO THE
good keep the credit cards because STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER 
they're no good anymore anyway i lost at STORE·MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE!
OR 5>6. CALL LEEANN 284-4455. Hey Shirley... 
10 REASONS NOT TO GO TO
ij on wednesday, april 13 at night be· Lowest rate. 24 hour electronic protec· WARD. RITA, WAS THAT FINGER
Even though you are taking away one of 
BRIDGET'S(¢) 10-lt smells like day old the best day editors in Observer history, 
tween the future home of the international lion. Call 654-3636. PAINT ON YOUR NECK OR ANOTHER 
dog p•.. that has dried In the sun the day staff still loves you.
peace studies and alumni en her call 1060 HICKEY (HOW LONG WILL THIS ONE 
g.The security cop with the 'stach onFOR SALE Need a ride home to Phila. area--can Monday nights 
or leave it anonymously in 207 alumni if LAST??) 
...................................... 
you want the reward call 

leave Fri. after 4 pm. I'm shipping most Aide needed to Binghampton, Syracuse 8-10oz. drafts on 16oz. beer nights I am convinced that I have THE BEST 
of my stuff home, so I won't take up too area Fri. evening, May 6, or Sat. Just me 
7-Lame people playing poolIBM PC?<T Model 086 and one very small suitcase. Will share
LOST:CAMERA, CANON SURE-SHOT. friends in the world.To all who filled my
much room. Call Matt x1686 6-6'9" hulks elbowing you In the head 10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and expenses. Call Erin at x2732.
LOST AT THE SENIOR FORMAL AT birthday weekend with surprises. 1 love 
THE DANCE ON SATURDAY NIGHT. IF ··························· 5-The back bar Is NEVER open you. Lisa Howard
Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 Erika Olmsted --you will be ,;,;~~d';;~~~ 4-Too many freshman smoking Camel
FOUND, PLEASE CALL 2541. 

price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, the summer!! For Sale 
Light cigarettesAST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. Airline Ticket to Denver 3-Wad p"..lng, ralphlng and swinging
FOUND: MAN'S TIMEX WATCH IN THE Diane, for all you do and all you are,
DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO j:i~;;pv··airtt;;;~)::·i~..;,:;v··:,;i·~;~:·A~hi~y .... leaves 541 
his toy In the back corner and other software packages also avail­Love ya, call x4514 2·Too many special recording 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL MEN'S LOCKER thank you! Love, 
stars able. For more information, call Mike Erin
ROOM. Lisa 
from around the world charging $2 Krager at 239· 7248 weekdays from 8
FOUND: BASKETBALL. CALL 1657 i<~·~;;·;~·::........................................... covers ................................... 
a.m. to 5 p.m. FRANK JACOBS: I think your new
WITH DETAILS AND DESCRIPTIION. 1·MARTHA 2 "HOT" IRISH GUARDS : .HOWZ 
I'm sorry that your childhood was so glasses are sexy! 
ABOUT A REPEAT PERFORMANCE? 
deprived-but but it was fun to hear you
LOST: Mead stenographer's notebook. rii:A:Ni<.vou·s;;iN-r.:ilioii···--···........... LUV, THE SOLID GOLD DANCER & 
talk about ij anyway. At least you learned Indiana Primay Is May 3 MIKE NEEDS
Important contents inside. Reward if HER "OBNOXIOUS" FRIEND
Ia It True You can Buy Jeeps tor $44 
to make a pot of coffee! YOUR HELP!!!! II! Students interested in 
found. Call 3308. ;:;;i·~·9~·-i;ii·;;;;;~·~i··;i;~··~iii~~··;j;~~jji;··i:i,
through the U.S. government? Get the ··Tim lending Mike a hand: Call 232-3722 MICHAEL-Thank~·;~;·~·g;~~~-:,;;~-;;k~;;;;·l
facta today! Call 1-312-742·1142 Ext. still be here:
FOUND: RHINESTONE SHOE ORNA· You're the sweetest thing. Love, Jeanine 
JR and KM and late night chats 
MENT AT SENIOR FORMAL. CALL 7318. Mallnl Pringa I'm so sorry I hurt you. That's my & Suzi P.S. Thanks to 
................................................................
283-2871. So which do you prefer, 2A, 3B, or 4? only regret. And because of this I feel Sue,Sue,Amy&Carolyn!14" COLOR TV SAMSUNG $85 CALL Jl 
unGRATEfULly DEAD. 2834155 Sandy Laura-
GEOGRAPHIC CLUBS 
Take the stairs. Trust me, it's better tor Does the thought of going on the final 
GEOGRAPHIC CLUB ORIENTATION Very important. PLease call Colin at other night, I got some quotes for you: Interested In starting a geographic 1078. I don't want to live in LA, where the big­
LOST: Gold Ring w;:h "NCC" inscription. Fofi...sA'Ce:·..i983..G:Fiiv...Fofio"ifi: you. Denny's run set your heart fluttering? Ringo, since you missed the movie the 
COAT. GOOD CONDITION. CALL 271--A concerned citizen club for students from your home city
0868. Laura-­
gest cultural advantage is being able to Get "pumped" for me
;;;~;;;-~;;;;..o~;;..r<~iiv·: .............................. or alate? The Student-Alumni Rela· 
LOST: A blue-jean jacket with a set of turn right on red. Ilona Group
Fofi...sA'Ce:···i983-..G.Fiiv...Fofio-·is: 
KEYS inside. Lost on Saturday April 23. Thank you for bringing my little sister to Denny's run! I'm a bigot, I know, bul to the left. 
SARGCOAT. GOOD CONDITION. 38,000 MI.
If found, please call -1 need my keys see me. We had fun I don'l think you like emotion too much. Ia presenting an InformationalCALL 271 ·0868 
back!! Call Ellie at x1253. See you soon --the stranger Kevin, What is fascinating is that its physical. meeting. TONIGHT 7:00 IN 3 weeks till summer opens for the (Poor paarking job) That's ok, we can MONTGOMERY THEATER (LA FOR·
FOR·s·ALE·:-·1a:·K~TV·.·2·LA·RGE.LAM'PS·. 
LOST: One SHARP CALCULATOR and To my roommate-to-be, season. It'll be great. Keep the tank full walk to the curb from here. TUNE)
SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL-SIZE BAR, 
a CROSS PEN & PENCIL set in a tan You better not be plann~ng on having any and the shades on·· we're gonna cruise! You're gonna love nightclubs, they're a All are -!cornell!
2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS ....... CALL 
of your kids running around underfoot ps. I know that dude! lot of fun. 
271-0868. ········•······················································· 
--Jeff Aegis May I inl.,rject something at this particular I just tton't understand the significance case. Was droppped between N. Dining 
point in time. of blue zinc oxide Hall and Farley. PLEASE return to TINA Refrigerator for $50 -like new 
Love fades. at x2702, 322 or 318 PW. NEEDED FOR call Colette at 287-07 42 Come oul &~~~..;;;~·i~i~~; ..~~;:;·~~ ..2 I have to go now because I'm due back CARPET -CHEAP! BEIGE, 8' X 12' FITS FINALS!!! THANKS! For Sale feet: ND Lacrosse vs. Michigan State on planet earth. McCandless double. Buy rt now and store 
One loveseat, perfect for reading, sleep­Wednesday at 3:30/0hio State Saturday If we lived in California, we could play it! Call Julie X5426 Oneway tickello Philly, $138, Sun., May ing, etc. at 1:30. Games at Krause Field. outdoors everyday. FOUND HP15c CALL 1453 8th, 12:45, call 287-1243 or 239-7313. Bargain price -$5. Call Pete at 4653. Last home games of lhe year! 
SISTERS OF SATAN UNITE! 
Tuesday, April 26, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Quarterbacks finally taken on NFL draft's second day 
Associated Press 1981. Last year's was 18 hours 
even. 

NEW YORK -Don McPher­McPherson, a 6-foot, 182­son, the Heisman Trophy pounder with 4.4 speed in the runner-up, set off a run on 40-yard dash, might have been quarterbacks on the second taken several rounds higher day of the NFL draft Monday had he opted to play wide after the position was virtually receiver or defensive back. But ignored the first day. he insisted on staying at quar­
McPherson, who led terback despite the contention Syracuse to an 11-0-1 season, by some scouts that he was too was taken with the 12th pick of small and didn't have an arm the sixth round by the Philadel­strong enough for an NFL quar­phia Eagles -the 149th player terback. taken but only the second true He would be more likely to quarterback taken during the fit into the Philadelphia style draft. than that of other teams. The 
The first, Chris Chandler of Eagles' starter, Randall Cun­Washington, was chosen on the ningham, is a scrambler. third round Sunday by In­McPherson plays the same dianapolis, the 76th pick over­way, although he is four inches all. Earlier, Phoenix had taken shorter, 35 pounds lighter and Tom Tupa of Ohio State with lacks Cunningham's arm 
Stan Humphries of Northeast Louisiana State Unl-Monday's picks proved that teams are stlllloolng
the 68th pick, put Tupa is re­strength. 
verslty was one of the quarterbacks taken on the for players to throw to all the receivers drafted
garded primarily as a punter. 
second day of the National Football League Draft. Sunday.
Before this year, the latest a "I'm not disappointed one quarterback had been chosen bit. I knew going into the draft Cunningham and McPherson Washington took Stan Two more quarterbacks was in 1974, when Dallas took that I wouldn't go in the first would also give the Eagles two Humphries, a quarterback went during the seventh round Danny White with the 53rd couple of rounds because I black quarterbacks, the second from Northeast Louisiana. -Mike Perez of San Jose State to pick. wanted to go as a quarter­time in NFL history that has the New York Giants and Ker-
Altogether, 11 quarterbacks~ back," said McPherson, who happened. In 1984, Houston had It was the Redskins' interest win Bell of Florida to Miami. were taken on the second day. said Eagles Coach Buddy Ryan Warren Moon and Brian Ran­in Humphries that fueled Both had been rated much 
The draft wound up at 5 p.m. "made it clear to me that he som on their active roster. rumors the Super bowl champs higher before subpar senior EDT after a total of 16 hours, likes me as a quarterback and might be willing to deal Jay seasons, particularly Perez, 44 minutes over two days, the only that. Two picks after McPherson, Schroeder, the backup to Doug . who is considered a tough-guy second fastest draft since the "To have the opportunity to Dallas took another quarter­Williams. But Humphries is kind of leader and once had a merger of the AFL and NFL in play quarterback is what I'm back, Scott Seculesilf Virginia. considered a project who will roughing-the-rusher penalty 1967. The fastest was 16:19 in after." And later in the sixth round, take several years to develop. called on him. 

•
'Internationals' beat 'U.S.' team 1n sudden death 
Associated Press SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Greg Norman sank an 18-foot birdie  The victory was worth $100,000 apiece for Norman and Woosnam and they also split a $50,000 bonus for winning the  The "International Team" of Norman, from Australia, and Woosnam, from Wales, trailed by four shots after 13 holes. But  par-3, 196-yard 18th hole on the adjacent but only partly­completed Geronimo course. Under the playoff format, the  The "U.S." team of Trevino and Nicklaus had fired a 4­under 32 on the front nine to take a two-shot lead at the turn  
putt on the first hole of sudden death to give himself and  final hole.  they made eight birdies over the final 11 holes to shoot a 6­ first birdie won. If nobody birdied, the closet tee shof to  with four birdies and five pars.  
partner Ian Woosnam a one­ Nicklaus and Trevino each  under-par 30 on the back nine  the pin would win.  Their only bogey of the round  
stroke victory over Jack Nick­laus and Lee Trevino in Mon­day's $300,000 Desert  received $25,000 in the best­ball, stroke-play tournament in which the final nine holes were  and forge a tie at 64 over the par-72, 7,045-yard Cochise course-a new layout developed  Norman used an 8-iron to get 18 feet from the pin while Nick­laus was 20 feet away and both  came on the 17th as Norman and Woosnam parred the hole to tie at 7 under. Both teams  
Scramble,  an  experimental  televised live on cable for a cost  by Nicklaus.  Woosnam and Trevino 35 feet  birdied the 18th  to  force the  
pay-for-view golf tournament.  of $12.95 per household.  The scene then shifted to the  shy of the hole.  playoff.  
In the best-ball format Woos­ 
\----------tl nam  moved his ball  to  Nor­ "The  bogey  gave  them  a  
\-------...  man's mark but missed his putt  chance,"  Nicklaus  said.  "It  
\----------for  birdie.  Norman  calmly  was a lot of fun until we bogyed  
\--------..  made his for the win before a  17. That killed us. It got them  
\----------11 gallery of 3,000-many of whom  even and it was the first time  
paid $500 to watch \---------11 augural match.  the  in­ we hadn't been up on them all day.  
lff~,~~,,", "~If.;r·.-----.~  
., '~  

1~cno~. \J\S1~ is apart o 
AP Photo 

Jack Nicklaus may not be smiling now, as he and partner Lee Trevino were beaten by the International duo of Greg Norman and Jan Woosman at the $300,000 Desert Scramble. 


-~-----------~----·~-~~----~--­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1988 
Nothing close about weekend lacrosse action 
Olmstead hits century scoring milestone 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
"Blowout" was the name of the game for the Notre Dame lacrosse team last weekend_ 
The Irish routed Wittenburg 18-4, then found themselves on the other side of the fence by falling 17-1 to Ohio Wesleyan. 
Notre Dame's record now stands at 10-3. The victory over Wittenberg, serving as more than a game for the reserves, gives the lacrosse program their first ten-win season. 

Junior attackman John Olmstead repeated his team­record of nine points in a game by scoring two goals and seven assits against Wittenburg Thursday. Senior tri-captain john McNicholas contributed two goals and three assits while fellow captain Art Brady added four goals to the Irish rout of the Tigers. 
McNicholas scored Notre Dame's only goal against Ohio Wesleyan as the Irish were out­matched in nearly every phase of Saturday's game. Senior goalie Matt McQuillan came up with a season-high 18 saves as only five of Wesleyan's 40 shots did not reach the goal. The Battling Bishops, who moved to 10-1 for the year, cleared the ball out of their zone 90 percent of the time and won 15 of 21 faceoffs, in addi­tion to scooping up 55 ground balls to the Irish 40. 
"Their defense was strong and they really dominated on ground balls. Whoever leads in ground balls usually controls the game," said sophomore middie Mike Quigley, who leads the Irish with 52 ground balls this year. 
"Before the game I heard the announcer say Ohio Wesleyan was the number one team in Division III and they came out on the field and proved that they are even one of the na­tion's best team's overall, regardless of division," Quigley said. 
Irish coach Rich O'Leary said he was disappointed in the team's effort against the Bat­tling Bishops. The Irish at­tempted only 16 shots in the game and continued to have trouble on man-up situations, converting on only one of nine opportunities. 
"We didn't play very well and couldn't control the ball or keep it away from their of­fense," O'Leary said. "We went in knowing we didn't have much of a chance to win and that might have affected us.. It should have been a much closer game." 
I 
The Wittenburg game gave several of the Irish reserves and freshmen the chance to bask in the scoring limelight. Sophomore Vinnie Vitale and freshman Pete Gillin scored their first goals of the year while freshman Mark Brady netted his second goal of the year and freshman Chris Rowley added an assist. 
Olmstead's nine points against the Tigers gives him 101 for his career (58 goals and 43 assists). He joins an elite group of five players to have scored over 100 points and still has a year to go. The others: Joe Franklin '86 (161), Bob Trocchi '85 (143), Steve Pear­sall '84 (125) and Tom Grote '86 (122). 
The Irish close out their season at home this week with games against Michigan State and Ohio State. They play the Spartans at 3:30 on Wednesday and then take on the Buckeyes on Saturday at 1:30. 
Wins against those two oppo­nents would give the Irish the Great Lakes Lacrosse Associ­ation title, which they won in '85 and '86. Michigan State won the conference last year on their way to the NCAA Western bid, although Air Force all but has this year's NCAA reserved Western berth locked up. 
The Olympic torch will burn for all those athletes who do not test positive for banned substances. The International Olympic Committee Is discuss-
NBA Standings 
Western Conference Mldw..t Dlvlalon 
Final Standings 
Eaat.m Conference W L Pet. GB Atlantic Dtvlalon Pet GB y-Denver 54 28 .659

W L 

· x-Dallas 53 29 .646 1 y-Boston 57 25 .695 19-x-Utah 47 35 .573 7 x-New York 38 44 ::: x-Houston 46 36 .561 8 x-Washington 38 44 19 _ x-San Antonio 31 51 .378 23Philadelphia 36 46 439 21 _ Sacramento 24 58 .293 30 New Jersey 19 63 232 38 Pacific Dlvlalon Central Dlvlalon _ y-LA Lakers 62 20 .756
y-Detroit 54 28 .659 

x-Portland 53 29 .646 9 x-Chicago 50 32 .610 4 x-Seattle 43 38 .531 18.5 
x-Atlanta 50 32 .610 4 Phoenix 28 54 .341 34 x-Milwaukee 42 40 .512 12 Golden State 20 62 .244 42 x-Cieveland 42 40 .512 12 LA Clippers 17 64 .210 44.5 

Indiana 38 44 .463 16 x-made playoffs
y-won division tiUe 


The Observer I Suzanne Poch Irish junior John Olmstead led the Irish lacrosse team to victory over Wittenberg last Thursday and broke the 100 point career scoring mark. The Irish were blown away by Ohio Weslyan on Saturday. Pete LaFleur details the action at left. 
IOC talking penalties for positive drug tests 
Associated Press 

LAUSANNE, Switzerland ­Armed with new penalties against substance-using ath­letes and unethical laborato­ries, the International Olympic Committee is honing its attack on doping in sports to make sure this summer's Games are as drug-free as possible. 
"Last year, IOC-accredited labs around the world tested more than 37,000 samples, and 854 came back positive," Prince Alexandre de Merode, the chairman of the IOC's medical commission, said. 
Anabolic steroids were the most abused drug, showing positive in 521 cases. Steroids add to muscle bulk and strength, but have been shown to carry serious side effects such as liver damage. Am­phetamines and other 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
stimulants were next, with 301 cases. 
The labs also found 24 cases where athletes used probenecid, a "masking agent," to try to hide the pres­ence of other illegal drugs. 
The total number of postive cases came to 2.25 percent of the total -not a large number, but one larger than the IOC wants. 
On Sunday, Merode, an IOC vice president from Belgium, urged the federations that gov­ern the summer Olympic sports to adopt uniform drug penalties, suggesting a multi­tier plan similar to one the IOC is using for the first time this year. 
Under it, athletes who take drugs only to enhance perfor­mance are dealt with differ­ently than those who might take then accidentally. 

YOUR UNCLE WANTS TO PAY FOR COLLEGE. BUT ONLY IF YOU'RE GOOD ENOUGH. 
Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition and provide an allowance for fees and textbooks. Find out if you qualify. 


ARMY ROTC: 
AP Photo lng possible penalties for drug users. See story at right. 
Allied Shipping 
Let us pack and ship your electronic equipment, stereo, etc. direct to you home by UPS-Emery. 
219-277-7616 
Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDEm STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
1 

' . ~ . ; I\. .
•·f ·' ' I : J-l 
I '"'· \' -~ , ... ~-. >!}_.-'I
/' .'·~-/.
...;._ ~ -'-: " ~ '/ I " ·-. , ~-':, .-/
~'.,;J~---~ 
DOJI'JDIIVl._,.II,OII:ItiD[WITKII'I'Ofrn:WitODCKS 
THE SMARTEST COWGE
University Commons 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
SR 23 & Hickory 
Scholarships This Summer 
Western Union 
Call Capt. Warrick 
Available 
239-6264 

Tuesday, April 26, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Canadians, down 3-1, face Boston's Lemelin 
Associated Press 
The Montreal Canadiens know why the Boston Bruins seemingly have a lock on their NHL playoff series. They just haven't been able to find the key yet. 
"We have to find a way to beat Reggie Lemelin," Montreal coach Jean Perron said of the Bruins goaltender. "He has played very good, and the entire Boston team has been playing with discipline and waiting for their chances." 
Lemelin stopped 22 shots Sunday night as the Bruins took a 3-1lead in their best-of-seven Adams Division championship series with a 2-0 victory. 
The playoff shutout was the second in Lemelin's 10-year career, the first for the Bruins in postseason over Montreal since 1978, and now Boston is poised to do something it hasn't done for even longer. The Bruins have not beaten the Canadiens in a playoff series since 1943. 
"We're confident this is our year," Lemelin said. "We're going do it.... We're creating a new era." 
The Adams Division series resumes Tuesday night at Montreal. In Sunday's other game, Washington beat New Jersey 4-1 to tie the Patrick Division series 2-2. That playoff resumes Tuesday night at Lan­dover, Md. 
Lemelin replaced Andy Moog in goal after Montreal won the first game of the series 5-2. In the past three games, Lemelin has held the Canadiens to four goals. 
"Although we won the second game, we didn't play that good in the first two games in Montreal," Lemelin said. "Now we've picked up momen­tum. Once you get in your mind that you can do something, you can do it." 
Veteran Rick Middleton broke a scoreless tie in Game 4 with a a backhander that trickled into the net at 11:25 of the second period. 
Patrick Division 
Clint Malarchuk, the victim of New Jersey's 10-4 victory in Game 3, replaced Pete Peeters in goal midway through the second period after Peeters was injured. He stopped 13 Devils shots and held New Jer­sey scoreless the rest of the way. 
"That was the toughest mo­ment of my entire career," Malarchuk said. "I had to put everything out of my mind and just focus on this game. I couldn't lose, because then we would have gone back to Wash­ington down 3-1." 
A shot by New Jersey's John MacLean hit Peeters in the mask, knocking him back­ward, and Peeters had to leave the game after his head hit the ice. 
"I knew he was seriously hurt," Malarchuk said. "I knew I was going to play, but I was really nervous. I was thinking about what happened Friday night." 
M A T H 
1 0 1 
A public service message from The Observer 
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
SUMMER IN CHICAGO AT ··-Ill FOR 137 WAYS TO: 
[1?' Get a head start [1?' Fill prerequisites [1?' Make up coursework [1?' Speed up graduation 
• 
137 undergraduate or graduate courses to choose from 

• 
8 week summer session-June 13 to August 6 

• 
Day and evening classes 

• 
Convenient locations: Main Campus, liT West and Extension Centers 

• 
Ample FREE parking 


FOR INfo'ORMATION CALL TOLL FREE: 
In Illinois 1-800-572-1587 Outside Illinois 1-800-448-2329 
Ask for: MARY EDWARDS 
Illinois Institute of Technology 3300 South Federal Street 

Chicago, Illinois 60616 

Raymond Bourque of the Boston Bruins and Chris Chellos of the Montreal Canadlens will take to the Ice again as Montreal tries to stage a com-
Orioles rearrange to find a win 
Associated Press possible, and there has been Worthington is batting only 
speculation pitcher Scott .234 but has hit four home runs, 
MINNEAPOLIS -The Bal­McGregor, 0-3 with an 8.56 including three in the last four timore Orioles, who have lost ERA, might be released. games. Hughes is batting .306. their first 18 games, shuffled Hemond said he had not their roster Monday by calling talked in the past week with the Red Sox 5, Brewers 1 up three players from Class New York Mets about center AAA Rochester and sending fielder Mookie Wilson, who has Bruce Hurst pitched a six­outfielder Jim Traber and asked to be traded. hitter and struck out eight Mon­pitcher Oswaldo Peraza to the The Orioles are the poorest­day night as Boston beat the minors. hitting team in the majors at Milwaukee Brewers 5-1, the 
Pitcher Bill Scherrer, third .198 and their 6.01 ERA is Red Sox' sixth straight victory. 
baseman Craig Worthington second-worst to Minnesota's Hurst, 3-0, did not walk a bat­
and outfielder Keith Hughes 6.36. ter and allowed the only run in 
will officially join the Orioles the ninth inning. 
Tuesday in time for a night "We're in a situation where The Red Sox chased Mil­
game against Minnesota. we're trying to find solutions," waukee starter Bill Wegman, 
A roster spot still must be Hemond said. 1-3, with one out in the seventh 
cleared and Orioles general Scherrer, formerly with Cin­when Ellis Burks' RBI-single 
manager Hollie Hemond said cinnati and Detroit, has four drove in Brady Anderson, who 
another move would be made saves at Rochester. He will had doubled, and gave them a 
Tuesday. He said a trade was serve as a left-handed reliever. 3-0 lead. 
:i 
,•, 

AP Pholo Those woeful O's ... Baltlmore pitcher Mike Bod­some moves In order to put at least one victory dicker looks as If the Oriole's 18th straight loss on the board. Is too much for him to take. Baltimore has made 
ng-ups p on ng
-You're still not out of luckl Sign-ups will continue on .3rd floor LaFortune, Student Activities Office, until the end 
-4 p.m. $150.00 Down, $400.00 Total Includes: 
•Round-trip 
air fare 

•Tickets 
to the game 


•4 nights Anaheim Marriott etc... 
Don't Miss Outll 

--------~~­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1988 


TT 12:30-8:30 
SMC track takes 8th at District 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's varsity track team placed eighth at dis­tricts Saturday at Huntington College in Indiana. 
The District meet is a large invitational competition in which the top qualifying run­ners advance to the national meet. None of the Belles achieved a this privilege, but many placed in the top six on Saturday. 
Senior Cathy Kennedy placed fifth in the 1500 meter run with a time of 5:22.7. She also finished a respectable sixth in the 800 meter run while teammate Jacque Benchik placed sixth in 5000 meter run. 
The 1600 relay team of Kelly Streit, Maggie Daday, Cathy Kennedy and Mary Cassidy took an impressive third with a time of 4:32.9, which was just short of the required standard time. 
The cold, windy weather destroyed any hopes for the 400 relay as a bad exchange caused the saint Mary's team to be dis­qualified. 
In the field events, Jeanette O'Neill placed fourth in the javelin with a throw of 95'5". 
The highlight of the day came in the 100 meter dash as fresh­man Kelly Streit set the school record with a time of 13.16 seconds. 
"Everyone worked very hard and many of the girls finished seventh place which was very pleasing to see." said Belles' head coach LarrySzcechowski. "There has been a lot of improvement through­out the season so hopefully we will do quite well in our last match next weekend." 

Lakers defend title 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Last June, after the Los Angeles Lakers won the NBA Champi­onship, Coach Pat Riley per­sonally guaranteed that his club would repeat as titleholders, becoming the first team in 19 years to accomplish such a feat. 
Now, it's put up or shut up time, and Riley has some fresh ammunition to fire up his troops as they begin their quest for a second straight title. 
A round-table discussion was aired on CBS Sunday after­noon, in which none of the net­work's so-called expert com­mentators picked the Lakers to win the title, despite their NBA­best 62-20 regular-season record. 
"That's OK," Riley said, re­ferring to the opinions of Tom Heinsohn, Billy Cunningham and Billy Packer, all of whom tabbed the Boston Celtics to 
Track 
continued from page 16 
Also contributing to the Irish good fortunes at Indiana were freshman Pat Kearns and John Cole. Kearns took third in the 10000-meter run and Cole placed third in the high jump. Cole recorded his best effort thus far, with a jump of 6'11 314". Sophomore Glenn Watson also chipped in with a third 

the final day and dropped Noel O'Sullivan's Irish Into ninth among 
Golfers start fast but fade away on last day 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 

Last Saturday after the links had cleared, the Notre Dame golf team had settled comfor­tably into the fifth place spot among fifteen of the top schools in the Midwest. 
Unfortunately for coach Noel O'Sullivan's Irish linksters, the competition had other plans for the finish of the Spartan Invi­tational at East Lansing, Mich. 
"When we can be very com­petitive for two-thirds of any tournament, I have to feel good," said O'Sullivan, "and the team feels good as well." 
But several top contenders saved their best rounds for last and pulled away from Notre Dame and the rest of the pack. When it was all over, the Irish found themselves a respec­
win the title, and Rubie Brown, who selected Detroit. "People are basing their opinions on his­tory. 
"We don't have anything to lose this year. Nothing. The only thing we have to lose is a great opportunity. It's a great opportunity, one that took us eight years to get." 
The Lakers officially open defense of their title Friday night when they entertain the San Antonio Spurs in the opening game of a best-of-five series. Game Two will be Sun­day night, with the series then moving to San Antonio for a third game on May 3 ancJ a fourth game, if necessary, on May 5. 
What if the Lakers don't win the title? 
"There are no conse­quences," Riley said. "None. They won't lose their respect, their identities, their money, their rings, their pride, if they don't get the job done." 
place, running the 100 high hurdles in 14.12 seconds. 
The Notre Dame track team will send representatives to two meets this weekend. Some members of the team will go to the Penn Relays, as already mentioned. The rest will attend the Ball State Invitational at Ball State. 
Coach Piane stated that the emphasis this weekend will be on individual performances, rather than team scores. 
table ninth overall. 

"Our team looks good in that our preparation is working well," said O'Sullivan, "but what seems to show in the tour­naments is our youth." 
Indeed the Irish are a very young team, consisting of two seniors, two juniors, four sop­homores and two freshman. Next year the Gold Team will remain intact for the most part, save for the loss of senior cap­tain Dick Connelly. 
"Now I have five guys with an understanding of actual tournament play," stated O'Sullivan. "Next year there will be no excuse." 
The Irish put up some good numbers for the Spartan Invi­tational and posted a 78 stroke average for the tournament. But once again the Irish were dogged by bad weather. 
Sports Briefs 
WVFISportsStaffmembersmustattend The ND Sailing team placed first overall a meeting Wednesday at 8 p.m. at the station. in the Purdue Spring Regatta last weekend. Next year's plans will be discussed. Call Jamey Pete Wall won the 'A' Division with crew Chris Rappis at x2266 or Greg Guffey at x1701 if you Blum, and Tom Sessions won the 'B' Division have any questions. -The Observer with crew Watts Hudgens. -The Observer 
• • • . . The Burke Memorial Golf Course will 
TrtvtaNtghtreturnsforthefmalSpeakmg hold graduation priority tee times on Friday of S~orts tonight on WVFI-640 AM. Join the ex-May 13 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Saturday: ecutlve sp~rts st;;tff by calling 239-6400 from 10-May 14 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Call 239-5721 for 11 p.m. Prtzes will be awarded. -The Observer special graduation reservations. Special 
graduation weekend hours of the course's pro 
TheSailingCiubwillholditslastmeeting shop will be 6:30a.m. to 8 p.m. on Friday, May of the semester tonight at 6:30 at the boathouse. 13, and 6 a.m. to 4 p.m on Saturday, May 14 All members are asked to attend. -The Observer and Sunday, May 15. -The Observer 
r ··. 
·/·) 

Leading the team was junior Doug Giorgio with 76-78-76 for a 230. Close behind Giorgio was junior Pat Mohan who had the low round for the Irish at 75 and combined it with 77-79 to finish at 231. Senior captain Dick Con­nelly had a rough start but helped out with two more sub­eighty rounds at 84-76-79 for a 
239. Freshman Paul Nolta started well at 78 but had 80-85 to end up at 243. Fifth man for the Irish was Bobby Kloska who was impressive in his first outing as a member of the Gold Team, with a 83-81-80 for 244. 
All the top finishers managed to outdistance the Irish with the help of superb final rounds. Il­linois took the honors at 891, powered by the one-two punch of its top two golfers, who were co-medalists at 217. The Iowa Hawkeyes were a distant 
second at 905, while Wright State came in third at 912. The Irish total for the three rounds was 937. 
The future looks quite good for O'Sullivan. He feels that the Irish certainly have the poten­tial to turn themselves into a solid team. 
"Being competitive looks very bright for the future," said O'Sullivan. "Youth will develop into maturity, and hopefully that will turn into the staying power we need to do well for an entire tournament.'' 
Notre Dame will close out the regular season this weekend when they travel the same five Gold Team members to the Midwestern Invitational in Lake Geneva, Illinois. Once again the Irish will go up against fifteen of the top schools from the Midwest. 

Tuesday, April 26, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 

© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
04/26/88 


Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
~'( fl..I..L \\.\~ SRQ.K'i ? 'IEAH.~T 
~~ t..I..L 1\.1~ VI'(~ ~ f>.GU,..llt I'VE 
IV 1\-11:. G\l'( t.'i.\sts, ~IW GO\ lWc. SM.\£ 
~'T 1-\£ £'-l£R S\J()'tJ G\.ltsn~s 
HIMS£LF t>.ND ~Vt. II? 1\SOOT GOO. 
\ 

"Say, Will -why don't you pull that thing out and play us a tune?" 


CU5HI NG-AUD. APRIL 27 and 28 
ADMISSION 
PlEA~E:
~2.~ NO FOOb otl>iiAIK! B:OO.~.f 10:OOP.') 
Tuesday 
8:30a.m.: CIAUM Lecture, "College programming, The full sweep," by Bruce Donovan, Dean of Students Office, Brown University. 
9:30 a.m.: CIAUM Lecture, "A model comprehensive alcohol program for universities," by Jean Kinney, Executive Director, Project Cork Institute, Dartmouth University Medical School. 
11 a.m.: CIAUM Lecture, "Family issues in alcohol use and abuse," by Barbara McCrady, Center of Alcohol Studies, Rutgers University. 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Institute and the Department of Sociology Seminar, Brown Bag lunch, "Problems of Democracy and Political Integration in Peru, " by Professor Julio Cotler, Columbia University, Room 131 Decio. 
2 p.m.: CIAUM Lecture, "Unanswered questions about distressed faculty and staff: Why won't they let us help them?" by Peter Nathan, Program Officer, MacArthur Foundation and Rutgers University. 
3 p.m.: CIAUM concluding discussion. 4 p.m.: SMC Softball, SMC vs. Tri-State, SMC Softball Diamond. 4 p.m.: The WVFI Moment, music interspersed with interviews with ND 
notables, questions taken from the audience, 4 p.m.: Diane Fitzgibbon, Laurie Bink, 4:30p.m.: Chuck Lennon, Tom Doyle, 5 p.m.: Mary Ann Roemer, 5:30 
p.m. Dean Emil Hofman, 6 p.m.: William Hickey, Pat Cooke, 6:30p.m.: WVFI's "Strictly Speaking" commentators, Bob Groth, Chris Devron, Ed Yevoli, Matt Schlapp. 
8 p.m.: Department of Music University Artists Series Concert, Sharon lsbin, Guitar Recital, Washington Hall, tickets required. 
8 p.m.: Kellogg Institute International Conference on Labor Movements in Transitions to Democracy (CLMTD), today through Thursday, Room 11-104 Cen­ter for Continuing Education, sponsored by The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), Arthur O'Nei, and International Development Research Center <DRC). 
8 p.m.: CLMTD Session I, Introduction and Overview. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Italian Beef Sandwich Roasted Turkey Beef Fried Rice Baked Noodle Casserole 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
ACROSS 1 Show host Griffin 

5 Desert 11 Knucklehead 14 Brainchild 15 Done by sight 16 Part of E.A.P. 17 Twin 18 Take back 19 A Gershwin 20 Take 22 Krlstofferson 23 Common abbr. 24 Begin 
earnestly 25 Tree 

26  Islamic deity  
28  Natives of  
Karlstad  

30 Lay hold of 31 Liturgical 
vestment 34 Uppity one 35 Coming 38 Garner 40 Heb. 
measures 42 -rival 43 Orchestra 

members 45 Track 47 Stlckum 48 Slow boat 49 Test 51 Excellent 53 Attentive look 54 Praise 58 Drone 59 Do no work 61 Kind of 
measurement 62 Yoko ­63 Blue dye 65 Game piece 66 Rocky 
pinnacle 67 Public tiffs 68 Tied 69 Person 70 Ancient Gr. 

ceramic ring 71 Comic Foxx 
DOWN 1 Very rich king 2 Draw out 
All Rights Reserved 
3 Behave 4 Servants 5 Separate 6 High card 7 Twain 
character 8 Startles 9 Raja's wife 

10 -crafts 11 "Jaws" 
director 12 Artery 13 Lulu 21 Internees 25 Was Esau 27 Hot rock 29 Son of Seth 31 Bow 32 Shelter 33 -Orioles 35 Saudi province 36 Sgt. 37 Even If 39 Windfall 41 Comic Martha 44 Printing 
dagger 46 "Cool Hand

_.. 

49 More boring 50 Squirrel's 
occupation? 51 Snapshot 52 Continue 55 Force 
04/28/88 
56 Lubricated 
57 Heaving 
motion of a 
vessel 
60 Single time 
61  Lichen  
64  Earth:  
pref.  


,......__________ 
Sports
page 16 Tuesday, April 26, 1988 
Irish defenders go in draft Figaro to Chargers, Wells to Bengals 
By MARTY STRASEN and we feel he can make the Figaro was fourth on the Sports Editor transition to the inside Irish with 53 tackles last fall. linebacker position,'' Haluchek He led the team with three 
A pair of Notre Dame defen­said of the 6-2, 246-pound forced fumbles and five tackles sive players were selected on Figaro. for losses in 1987, and also re­the final day of the two-day "From what we have seen," corded three sacks. In 1986 he NFL draft in New York on Mon­Haluchek continued, "he plays set a single-season record with day. a tough, physical, aggressive seven fumble recoveries. 
The San Diego Chargers se­style of football and has the at­San Diego expressed the lected linebacker Cedric titude necessary to fill that po­most interest in Figaro before Figaro in the sixth round, 152nd sition." the draft, Figaro said. overall, and the Cincinnati 
"They told me that they were Bengals took defensive back interested in me as an inside Brandy Wells in the ninth linebacker," he said. "I have round, 226th overall. no problem with that. At this 
Those selections brought point I just want to play foot­Notre Dame's representation ball. It's a relief that this is all in the draft to five players. over with." Reisman Trophy winning receiver Tim Brown was the Wells will be reunited with sixth overall pick by the Los former Irish assistant coach Angeles Raiders on Sunday. Of­and current Bengals assistant fensive linemen Tom Rehder coach Mike Stock in Cincinnati. 
Brandy Wells 

and Chuck Lanza then were "He (Wells) has got good chosen back-to-back in the Figaro said he expected to go speed and provides fine third round. Rehder went to earlier in the draft, adding that coverage," Stock said. "He's The Observer I David Fischer New England and Lanza was an ankle injury suffered this also an outstanding special Notre Dame linebacker Cedric Figaro was drafted In the sixth round taken next by Pittsburgh. past season might have raised teams player. He's a hard, ag­by the San Diego Chargers In yesterday's wrap-up of the 1988 NFL 
Rounds six through 12 were some doubts about his ability gressive hitter and we feel he Draft. Figaro was the 152nd pick overall. Marty Strasen has the completed Monday. to play in the NFL. has a very good chance of details at left. 
Figaro will move from out­"I understand there were a making the team.." side linebacker to inside lot of questions about my ankle Wells often was called the linebacker when rookie camp and everything," said Figaro, hardest hitter on the Notre 
Irish play Big 10 
starts later this spring, who sprained the ankle against Dame squad at both safety and Charger linebackers coach Alabama and did not start the cornerback. But he was kept 
Mike Haluchek said. next week at Penn State. "But out of four games with a knee at Jake Kline Field 
"Although he played outside my ankle's fine now. I'd say it's injury his junior year and linebacker for Notre Dame, he about 80 percent, but I'm ready missed another two starts this By STEVE MEGARGEE But after losing five of its possesses good size and speed to play." past season. Assistant Sports Editor regular starters from last 
year's squad, Purdue has had Having won five of its last six a rough time of it this season. games at Jake Kline Field, the Mter a weekend series with
Irish track 5th at lntercollegiates 
Notre Dame baseball team will Iowa, the Boilers ranked ninth try to continue its home field in the Big 10 with a 6-14 confer­
By BILL STEGMEIER sing first place by only two ture long jumper Carl Lewis as ence mark.
fortunes this week in two con­Sports Writer inches. Indiana's Van Cowden he prepares for the Summer tests with intra-state rivals. Brian Piotrowicz, a sopho­won the event. Olympics. 
The Irish face Purdue this af­more out of South Bend Wash­The Notre Dame varsity Smith's previous best jump "To be in the same field as a ternoon at 2:30p.m. before en­ington High School, is thetrack and field team placed in college was 23'11 314". The Carl Lewis would be an honor tertaining Indiana at 3 p.m. on probable starting pitcher forfifth in the Indiana Intercol­Indianapolis, Indiana native in itself. I hope to do well." 
Wednesday. "I don't think it Notre Dame. Junior Erik Mad­legiates this past weekend. In­attributes some of his success makes a difference to these sen figures to take the mounddiana State took first place and at Indiana to his familiarity There were two individual guys where they play," said for the Irish against Indiana.
the host Hoosiers of Indiana with the surroundings. winners for the Irish at In­first-year Irish coach Pat The Irish have been aided came in second. Purdue "In high school, IU was my diana. Senior Tom Mick took Murphy. "I like to play at Jake recently by the emergence offinished third and Ball State hometrack.Ihadjumpedthere first in the hammer throw, with Kline Field. It's my favorite several underclassmen.
laid claim to fourth place. several times before and it may a distance of 190'4". Fellow field, but it doesn't matter to Seniors Tim Hutson and PatHead Coach Joe Piane was have been an advantage," senior Brian Driscoll won the these guys." Pesavento and sophomore Dan impressed with his team's per­Smith stated. "For instance, I javelin, with a throw of 189". 
• Notre Dame, which cur­Peltier have turned in consis­
formance. knew, before we even got there, Amother standout for the rently holds a 25-20 record, will tently strong hitting perfor­"We had some great individ­how fast the runway was for Irish was senior Rick Mulvey, have to chances to put a halt to mances, but sophomoreual efforts at the Intercol­long jumpers." who took second in the 3000­a 20-game losing streak against catcher/third baseman Ed legiates," Piane said. "There's meter steeplechase with a time Big 10 opposition. Lund also has come on of late. 
still room for improving, but Smith, who has also done the of 9:12.55. Mulvey had to over­"It's tough to play Big 10 Lund's classmate Dave Yaw­overall, I was pleased." triple jump and run the 200 for come a bit of bad luck, as he teams in the middle of the week man has been receiving more
Leading the Irish Saturday the Irish,. is looking forward to clamored into a barrier during because they have more playing time at catcher him­was freshman Jeff Smith. the Penn Relays this weekend. the race. 
depth," said Murphy. "I'm self. Freshman outfielder Greg 
Smith flew 25'3" in the long The meet, held at the Univer­see TRACK, page 14 kind of tired of hearing about Vogele, who has hit well jump, taking second and mis-sity of Pennsylvania, may fea­how many consecutive games whenever he has received we've lost to Big 10 teams be­playing time, slapped a grand cause it's not indicative of our slam on Sunday against program. Don't be surprised if Illinois-Chicago, and sopho­we knock one of these teams more Mike Rotkis has been ef­off." fective in limited duty. 
Purdue, a participant in last In addition, sophomore year's NCAA Tournament, pitcher Mike Coffey, who defeated Notre Dame 11-7 on rarely was used in the begin­April 13 at West Lafayette. In ning of the season, fared well that game, the Boilermakers in two assignments last rattled Irish pitching for nine weekend. runs in the first two innings. "You can't talk about Notre Notre Dame rallied with five Dame baseball in 1988 without runs in the ninth, and the game mentioning Pesavento, Peltier ended with the tying run at the and Hutson," said Murphy. plate. That victory by the "They've meant so much to us Boilers snapped a six-game this year. Irish winning streak. "Eddie Lund is also doing a 
great job," continued Murphy. 
The Boilers have had win­
"Mike Rotkis, Greg Vogele and ning seasons for the last four 
Dave Yawman have done good seasons under 11th-year coach jobs, and Mike Coffey has been Dave Alexander. Purdue has impressive of late with two 
compiled respective records of good outings last weekend. 37-27 and 36-24-1 over the last With all those players being
Senior captain Steve Skuplen and the Irish 
two seasons, both of which have sophomores, and Vogele being 
baseball team will try to even the $eason series 
produced second-place finishes a freshman, it's pretty excit­
against Purdue today and avenge an earlier loss 
in the Big 10 for Purdue. ing." 






