
Liquid Paper 
IACCENT: Tackling social tragedies A virtual "white-out" today with heavy snow continuing. Windy with accumulations of 6 to 8 inches by evening. Chance of 
IVIEWPOINT: Reflections on love 
snow tomorrow. 


VOL XXI NO 88 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

tive politicians and commen­The Observer I Trey Reymond 
"Our responsibility as an or­
tators reject it. Safety in numbers 
ganization is to act in response
Residents of Alumni Hall maintain the tradition of 
Hall. Section dine-ins are a popular and long-standing 
see AUSTRIA, page 5 
together as they savor dinner in South Dining see AIDS, page 4
tradition all over campus. 

GPA's importance depends on goal 
By REGIS COCCIA The senior, who asked not to be identified, said he was
Assistant News Editor 
offered a job as a manage­
For most students, admis­ment information consultant sion to Notre Dame required despite a cumulative GPA of a high grade point average. only 2.66. "My GPA has been But is a high GPA still im­steadily declining since portant to get a job or ad­mission to graduate school? A's and 
According to several ad­

B's at ND
ministrators at the Univer­sity, a high GPA is very im­
Part 2 of
portant for admission to 
a three-part
graduate and professional 
series
schools but less important in the job market. 


"It is the single most im­freshman year," the stu­portant thing that is consid­dent, an electrical engineer­ered by graduate schools," ing major, said. "I had a 3.6 said Robert Waddick, assis­freshman year. The reason tant dean of the College of is I have a declining interest Arts and Letters. "Now, in in electrical engineering. the job market I don't think I'm more interested in the it's all that important," he business end of engineerin­said. g," he said. 
"Most of the people I've 

Waddick said he thinks talked to are shocked," the most companies look for in­student said. "I have a volvement in activities that friend in aerospaceshow something about the (engineering). He has a 3.8 
applicant's character, such and he interviewed with Ar­as the position of resident as­thur Andersen but he didn't sistant and community ser­get the job." vice. The student said he feels 
A Notre Dame senior's his involvement in campus
recent job offer with the New activities helped him get the York consulting firm of Ar­job, even though he has no thur Andersen and Company practical work experience.shows that GPA is not a "I was very heavily involved 
major, and certainly not the 
see GRADES, page 6
only, concern. 

'TAP' helps students, taxpayers 
By DAN MURPHY at ten locations throughout ward Malloy's) view of how 
News Staff Michiana. The program, in its Notre Dame should interact 
17th year, started Saturday and with South Bend," he added. 
"I like seeing their faces will continue until the Internal The TAP centers have been 
when they get a bigger Revenue Service's April 15 busy and the rush is expected 
refund," said Michelle Mat­filing deadline, said Ken to continue for two weeks, said 
thews, a junior accounting Milani, faculty coordinator of Milani, because people are 
major at Saint Mary's. the program. eager to recieve their returns. 
Matthews is one of 45 stu­The student tax preparers, Tuesday morning was so busy 
dents volunteering their time to junior and senior accounting at the Senior Citizen Center in 
prepare state and federal tax majors, will prepare about Howard Park that Notre Dame 
returns for low-income tax­1,500 to 1,800 returns this year. senior Shannon Oakes had to 
payers from the South Bend­They recieve one credit hour turn people away. "At first 
Mishawaka area. for participating in the pro­when they came in it was over­
Notre Dame's Tax Assis­gram, he said. "It's a terrific whelming, and the first returns 
tance Program (TAP) is offer­use of the students' talents and took us a long time," said 
ing free help to taxayers with time," said Milani. "It ties in 
annual incomes below $20,000 well with Monk's (Father Ed-see TAX, page 6 

Senate race minus one candidate 
By JIM WINKLER pulled out of thP. race," Hof-get the votes from Stanford Staff Reporter rman said. "I didn't have the that Sean would have had." necessary enthusiasm." Kiernan expressed disap-
Saying, "My heart wasn't Hoffnian's withdraw! from pointment that Hoffman was into it," Sean Hoffman ex­the race leaves District 1 voters not going to run. "It's too bad. pained Wednesday why he with two choices, Pat Kiernan I was looking forward to dis­withdrew from the race for the from Holy Cross and Keenan cussing the issues with him." District 1 senate seat. Hall's Billy Joel. Both Kiernan Kiernan said that he didn't 
ND[SMC ELECTIO.NS. know how this would affect his Hoffman, a Stanford resi­chances. 
dent was the only current senator seeking re-election, Hoffman said that he is not
88 before he withdrew Tuesday. and Joel expressea surprise at sure how his not running will He is presently the senator the announcement that Hof-affect the race. "The other two from District 2, but due to re­fman would not seek re-are good, interested districting Hoffman and other election. canidates," Hoffman said. He Stanford residents will be in Joel said, "This (Hoffman's also said that the fact that no District 1. withdrawal) definitely helps senator is seeking another 
"I had trouble deciding whe­my chances. People who don't term may be good for the sen­ther or not I wanted to run, and know much about the senate 
I only decided last week to run are usually inclined to vote for 
see SENATE, page 6
at all. Yesterday (Tuesday) I the incumbent. Hopefully I can 


page 2

r 



In Brief 
Presidential candidates squared off Wednesday as they positioned themselves for next week's New Hampshire primary. Rep. Richard Gephardt fended off attacks from Sen. Paul Simon and Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, as the second and third place finishers ~n the Iowa caucuses accused Gephardt of flip-flopping on Issues. Surprise second place finisher in Iowa Pat Robertson turned aside questions about his religious broadcasting background, while Sen. Robert Dole contin­ued to try to chip away at Vice President George Bush's lead in the New Hampshire polls after Dole's victory in Iowa. -Associated Press 
Panama's military leader, Gen. Manuel Antonio Norieg~, provided military training for U.S.-backed Nicaraguan rebels after he met twice in 1985 with Lt. Col. Oliver North, a former top Panamanian intelligence offi­cial testified Wednesday. North told Noriega in October 1985 that the Panamanian training bases were needed be­cause U.S. laws at the time banned any direct U.S. help for the rebels fighting Nicaragua's leftist government, Jose Blandon said through an interpreter. Blandon, who was fired last month by Noriega as Panama's consul general in New York, also told a Senate Foreign Relations sub­committee that Vice President George Bush used Noriega to send a warning to Cuban leader Fidel Castro hours before the U.S: invasion of Grenada in 1983. ·Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Notre Dame's Nine Candidates for Student Body 
President will be the guests tonight on WVFI-AM 640's 
Campus Perspectives talkshow from 10 to 11 p.m. Chris­
topher Johnson, Steve Viz, Ellen Nichols, Mary Berger, 
Tom Doyle, Chris Rado, Matt Micros, Michael Keegan, 
and Bill Pelino will be interviewed. Host Lynsey Strand 
will take questions at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Mardi Gras Ball dance lessons will be given tonight 
from 6 to 7 p.m. at Theodore's. The lessons are sponsored 
by the NDSMC Ballroom Dance Club. -The Observer 
A resume workshop will be given by Marilyn Bury, 
assistant director of Career and Placement Services at 4 
p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Students of all majors and classes are invited to attend. -The Observer 
School gardening in Chile will be the topic of a slide 
show and discussion by John Kennedy today at 12:30 p.m. 
in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
A candlelight rosary service, celebrating the feast 
of Our Lady of Lourdes, will be held tonight at 6:45p.m. 
at Sacred Heart Church. Regina Coli, C.S.J. will be the 
homilist. -The Observer 

Career decision making workshops will be held 
at the University Counseling Center on Feb. 15 -18 and 22 
-25 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. for sophomores who have not selected 
a major. Call 239-7336 and ask for Bart, Julie or Rita for 
more information. -The Observer 
The Theology Forum willholdanimportantmeeting tonight at 10 p.m. in the first floor lounge of St. Edward's Hall. Dave Kinkoff, Marty Tracey, and Anne Marie Wolf will discuss their papers on Hebrew Scriptures. Pizza will be served. -The Observer 
TheAnti-ApartheidNetworkpresents''Apartheid, 
Part II" at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Part II of the Frontline series on modern South Africa 
examines how the apartheid ideology became entrenched 
in South Africa's political and economic institutions after 
the election of the Nationalist Party in 1948.-The Observer 

Design Editor ............ Bernadette Shilts Design Assistant ............... Michele Dall Layout Staff..... ............. Carlie Schubert Typesetters...... .......... Mike Buc ............................................ Smed Laboe News Editor... .................. Scott Bearby Copy Editor ........................ Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor ....•... Steve Megargee 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Brian Boderick Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Typist.... . .............. Wendy Burek ........................................ Lynsey Strand 
ND Day Editors ..... ........ Kathy McKee Photographer ................. Trey Reymond 
Tile O!Mener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throush Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S-40 per year (S2~ per semester) by writina Tile O!Mener, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Oblener is a member of Tile Alaodaled Pnu. AI! reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, February 11, 1988
The Observer 

Question of sock color puzzles fashion slave 
I'm a little fed up with this fashion thing. 
How I long for the carefree days of childhood: Garanimals and Oshkosh B'Gosh made it easy to match colors while plaid pants and big collars were considered cute. 
I am, according to a friend, "a slave to fas­hion," and I want to be freed. Not a slave in the sense that I worry about putting together the perfect combinations of clothing, but a slave because I am trapped by my inability to under­stand the laws which govern the world of fas­hion. 
I constantly inundate my roommates with 
questions like, "Does this match?" Or "Do 
these go together?" Or simply, "Does this look 
dumb?" And that's not just on SYR nights but 
everyday, although I know they must dread the 
moment I start to prepare for an SYR and pull 
out everything in my feeble wardrobe. 
The most troublesome articles of clothing for 
me are also the smallest--socks. 
St. Michael's Laundry wields a lot of fashion 
power for guys around here, in case you didn't 
notice. By regulating the dates of laundry 
dropoff and pickup for men's dorms, St. Mi­
chael's also dictates when our sock supply wili 
be depleted or replenished. 
No matter how many new pairs of socks I buy, there always come a few days each se­mester when the supply of whites run out and I am forced to commit the fashion faux-pas of wearing colored socks with my white basketball sneakers. I try to defend myself by pointing to the chilly South Bend winter and claiming that it is only practical that I wear something on my feet to keep warm. But fashion should not take a back seat to comfort or reason, it seems. 
Carelessness with socks was my latest tragic flaw at a recent SYR. It seems I was too caught up in finding the appropriate tie and suspenders to wear, forgetting that I had put on two differ­ent color socks to judge which looked better with my pants. You guessed it-the suspenders and tie dilemmas were solved, but off I trudged to the SYR with one gray sock and one brown sock. Oops. 
What I am getting at is that fashion concerns have taken over the most basic elements of getting dressed. GQ is becoming the Big Bro­ther which monitors our every move. 
I think Notre Dame women who wear sweats in the ice cream lines at the dining hall have the right idea. If you can't look good or you 
Brian O'Gara . '
•
~: 
Assistant Sports Editor 

simply don't care, then why even try? You might as well look as bad as possible just so it is clear you have no intention of trying to look good. 
Don't get me wrong, because women on this campus are often quite fashionable, and they have no trouble with socks. For example, have you ever noticed that girls' socks have to match the sweaters which they are wearing? I wonder which they buy first, the socks or the sweaters, and which they buy to match the other. 
Today a friend told me that her socks didn't match. When I looked at her feet I had to dis­agee. Tan matches tan in my book of fashion, small as it may be. But she meant her socks didn't match her sweater, which was gray. When I say my socks don't match, they really don't match, i.e. the above SYR fiasco. 
Though I probably just assured myself of never getting another SYR date, it had to be said. While I do admire those walking fashion statements who seem to easily put together the perfect look, I don't think I'm alone in my lack of fashion know-how and general disregard for best-dressed lists. So bring on the t-shirts and sweats, and hand me that ice-cream scoop. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o hfesov•ng Red Cross CPR course

+American Red Cross m!l 
'J'he Notre UmntYSaint 1H~1ry 1 s College Ut>ftublic~ms 
p·u.1.erzt a fu.h<'LE. fry 

CJfz_~ df-ono-tafrf~ :John d/-if~-t 'LL~. Con9't£H {wm tht:-3'~-J !DL1.t"tict of!Jndiana cSatu"Lday, 'Jdrwa'"!J 13th, 1988 12:30 p..m. c;:}f::.~u'l.9h .-£ifrw'"!J .-£ou.n9::. 


Thursday, February 11 , 1988 The Observer page 3 


AP Photo 

A conventional speaker Presidential aspirant Pat Robertson speaks at a convention in Buffalo, 
N.Y. Robertson was the suprise runner-up behind fellow Republican Bob Dole in the Iowa Caucus this week. 


9:30 PM -2:00 AM 
February 12: 

SOUTH DINING HALL 
• Tickets Available At the Door. 
•Free Ballroom Dance Lessons TONIGHT at Theodore's (6:00PM-7:00PM) 
Sponsored by the NDSMC Ballroom Dance Club. 

Professor 
By LIZ REEVES 
News Staff 

A Saint Mary's College 
foreign language professor is 
attempting to raise funds to 
help pay the funeral and medi­
cal expenses of a young boy 
who recently died of AIDS. 

Professor Nicholas Meyer­
hofer said he has collected a 
few hundred dollars so far, for 
the family of Richie Teders. 

Teders, 13, died Jan. 9 after struggling for three years with the symptoms of AIDS. He was infected with the virus in 1982 after receiving AIDS infected blood in a Fort Wayne, Ind. hospital for injuries suffered in a serious car accident, Meyer­hofer said. 
Teders' family is now strug­
gling to pay $3,000 worth of fu-

Cold, flu 
By DEIDRE FINN 
News Staff 

The cold and flu season is 
well under way this year and 
Notre Dame students are 
feeling the full effects of it. 

"By definition, certain dis­eases hit at certain times. Colds are common during the winter months. There will be steady cases until spring, but it is by no means epidemic," said Dr. James Moriarity of Notre Dame Health Services. 
There are no reported cases of influenza at Notre Dame, said Moriarity. 


starts AIDS fund 
neral expenses and unes­timated medical expenses, the professor of German said. 
Meyerhofer, who has never met Teders' family, said they do not even know about his fundraising efforts. "They don't need to know my name," he said. "They just need to know that there are a lot of folks in South Bend who care." Meyerhofer's donation will be sent to the family in an 

anonymous check, he said. 
Nicholas Meyerhofer
Meyerhofer said he learned of Teders' case through this is just one instance of it,'' Richie's godfather, a member he said. of Meyerhofer's church. Contributions to the Richie 
Richie's case, "shows that Teders Fund can be sent di­(AIDS) is not a one-sided issue. rectly to Meyerhofer at 153 It's not restricted to one social Regina Hall or mailed to Bank group. In this case an innocent One, 111 West Edison, Mis­little boy was its victim, and hawaka, In. 46545. 

season 'catching' 
Dr. Bernard Vagner of Notre Dame Health Services attrib­uted the absence of influenza cases to the flu vaccines that were given in November. 
"There is a misconception about the flu," added Moriarity. "It is often thought to be a combination of vomit­ing, nausea, and diarrehea, but it is really a respiratory dis­ease," said Moriarity. 
The majority of cases seen in the infirmary have been com­plications from colds, such as bronchitis, sinus infections and strep throat, said Moriarity. 
Notre Dame is symptomatic of the rest of the country. "There isn't anything unusual about the number of colds this year or on this campus," said Vagner. 
"I believe that most of the students with colds aren't com­ing to the infirmary," said Moriarty. "Most of the stu­dents can treat themselves at home and don't require medi­cal attention." 
Moriarity speculated about the reasons why colds spread 

so fast on campus. "There is a 
greater opportunity to get in­
fected because students live in 
such a closed environment with 
a lot of different people around, 
for example, classrooms, 
dormrooms," said Morarity. 
Vagner added that the dry air 
created by heating systems 
add to the respiratory prob­
lems. 

Vagner offered simple ad­
vice during this cold and flu 
season. 

"The cold virus is spread by coughing and sneezing, there­fore washing your hands fre­quently and using disposable tissues will help prevent the spread of the germ," said Vag­ner. "You cannot catch a cold from a chill or lack of sleep, these may lower your resis­tance." 
If you do get a cold, liquids and bedrest will help you feel better, said Vagner _ 
"Not everyone responds to the same treatment," said Moriarity. "I'm for anything that makes you feel better, that includes remedies such as chicken soup." 

WORK. SHARE. 

LIVE. SAVE LIVES. 
You can have a summer full of adventure & personal grov.th while imprming health for the people of l.atin America. 
VOL.UNTEER 1 

lobe an Amtgm \Oiunl!:er. \Htte: Amtgo~dc las America~ . .5oiKStar l.ane. Hou~ton. Tcxa~ 77057. 
Or call. 713-7K2-5290 or Xllll-:!J 1-7796 (!HJU-.W2-45XO in lex;)A~ 
-~---------------------------------------------_.. 


MARDI GRAS BALL 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, February 11, 1988 
Court: Gays to be permitted in Army 
Associated Press sexual acts. Lower courts, in­
cluding the 9th Circuit in a 1980 
SAN FRANCISCO -The decision by Judge AnthonyArmy's ban on homosexuals Kennedy, who recently was was ruled unconstitutional confirmed to the SupremeWednesday by a federal ap­Court, have allowed the mili­peals court that said tary to base exclusions on 
homosexuals are entitled to the homosexual conduct. 
same protection against dis­But the appeals court Wed­crimination as racial nesday said the Army's 1981 minorities. regulations go further by tar­geting a soldier's sexual
"The discrimination faced orientation, regardless of con­by homosexuals in our society duct.
is plainly no less pernicious or 
intense than the discrimination A ruling that specific sexual faced by other groups" af­conduct can be forbidden by forded protection from dis­criminal laws cannot be trans­crimination, said the 9th U.S. lated into "a state license to Circuit Court of Appeals in a pass 'homosexual laws' -laws 2-1 dec1:>ion. imposing special restrictions on gays because they are gay," 
The ruling was the first by a Judge William Norris said. 
federal appeals court to grant Leonard Graff, legal director 
strict constitutional protection for National Gay Rights Adv­
to homosexuals and to prohibit ocates in San Francisco, hailed 
a branch of the armed services the ruling. "I think it's about 
from excluding people on the time that the courts recognized 
The ObserverI Trey Raymond 
basis of sexual orientation. that gay people have been Come blow your horn In 1986, the Supreme Court denied their rights," he said. 
Two artisans in South Dining Hall are preparing for fashioning a papier-mache trumpet. The ceremonial
upheld a Georgia anti-sodomy The Defense Department 
the upcoming events of Junior Parents' Weekend by trumpet may summon juniors and their parents to the 
law that allowed criminal pro­had no immediate comment on 
traditional JPW dinner.
secution for private homo-the ruling. 

But she added, "If anyone vices is putting together a came and asked for the policy, group of people who will begin 
AIDS 

yes, it would be released." to go from dorm to dorm to give 
continued from page 1 Seager said she usually likes AIDS presentations within the 
to talk about the policy with dorms, according to Seager. to medical information," anyone who requested a copy "We've tried every other pos­Seager continued, "and every of it to see if he or she has any sible avenue to communicate piece of information has questions or concerns. with people (about AIDS) and proven over and over again "(Releasing the policy) is have not gotten a lot of atten­that the public as a whole is not more than just giving out a dance and response," Seager at risk. We have to act in ac­piece of paper," Seager said. said. "Students may feel more cordance with facts." But the emphasis should be comfortable in the dorms-­
more at home." Seager met
The UniversiLy AIDS policy on education, not policy, said has not been publicly released Seager. "That's the policy," with Hall Presidents' Council but is available by request she said. "The most important Tuesday to discuss the planned from health services. "We thing is education." presentations, she said. "Theydidn't feel it was important for To help Notre Dame students (the hall presidents) suggested publicity to be associated with become more aware of the that we submit a list with dates the guidelines," said Seager. facts about AIDS, health ser-so that they can pick a date for 
LIP -SYNC CONTEST 
~************************~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ Saturday, March 5 ~ ~
! _.. at Theodore's .1) ! 
~ ~
! $200 GRAND PRIZE!!! : 
~ ~ ~ 
********Sponsored by SUB ~ ** 
Interested acts should contact Maura (x2745) or Mack (x1184) by Feb. 19. 
each of the dorms (on which the presentation will be given)," Seager said. 
Mter this fs done, "we'll be off <md running," said Seager. 
Educating rectors and resi­dent assistants, putting up in­formational posters, making available informational pamphlets, advertising in The 
______..,.____ 
Pretty In Pink: 
St. Mary's Carroll 
Auditorium Admission: $1.00 February 12 & 13 
7pm & 9pm & 11 Sponsored by 
SMC Stud. Gov't. 
Observer or Scholastic and giving out an AIDS hotline phone number are among the other AIDS educational efforts made by health services. 
"We need to make informa­tion available in a variety of ways," said Seager. "People respond differently to different media stimuli. What works for one may not work for another.'' 
BEER Meister Brau....24 can......$4.99 Old Style....24 can....$7.99 Old Style Light ....24 can....$7 .99 Michelob....24 bottles....$9.99 Michelob light....24 bottles....$9.99 Lite....24 can....$8.57 Miller's....24 can....$8.57 Genuine Drart....24 can....$8.57 LONG-NECKS Budweiser....24 bottles....$8.38 Budweiser light....24 bottles....$8.38 Lite....24 bottles ....$7.99 Miller....24 bottles....$7.99 QUARTS Budweiser.... l2 qts....$11.69 Budweiser light....12 qts....$11.69 LIQUOR McCormick Vodka.... l.75....$7.99 Nelson's Spiced Rum....liters....$3.99 Cossack Gin....750 ml.. .. $3.99 Cristallmported Schnapp's....750 ml ....$3.99 (It's from Columbia!) Dubouchet Peach Schnapps....liters....$5.99  CITY-WIDE LIQUORS WINE Carlo Rossi....4 liters.....$5.593825 N. Grape Rd. Francia Astl Spumonti.. .. 750 ml....$3.99 Sutterhome White Zinfadel....750 mi.. .. $3. 99 Matilda Bay....4 pk....$2.99Mish, Ind. Fuzzi Navel.. .. 2 liters ....$2.99Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. TRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE OFF EDISON RD. 272-2274 SUPER SPECIALS Edllln DEKUVPER SCHNAPP'S APPLE & ROOT BEER LITER $4.99 CALL fOR SYR PARTifS  


Thursday, February 11, 1988 
Shuttle bolt flaw could force delay 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. ­
Engineers working on the 
redesigned space shuttle rock­
ets said Wednesday they have 
discovered a bolt design error 
that could delay NASA's plans 
to resume flights Aug. 4. 
The engineers at Marshall 
Space Flight Center and at 
Morton Thiokol Inc. were 
trying to determine if the 
design of 72 bolts used to secure 
the booster exhaust nozzle 
should push back the date for 
the first post-Challenger 
launch. 
"If we convince ourselves it is an acceptable condition, there is no schedule impact," said Royce Mitchell, a member of the Marshall redesign team. "If we took the worst case, we're talking weeks if we have to change the flight and qualification motors." 
The problem area is one of several on the booster, which was redesigned after the Chal-Ienger exploded in January 1986, killing all seven aboard. 
The redesigned joint includes a second rubber 0-ring seal and rubber washers for each bolt, Mitchell said. The bolt assem­bly is considered part of the joint's secondary seal, which would keep exhaust from es­caping if the primary 0-ring were breached. 
The bolts, originally threaded all the way to the bolt head, were redesigned to have a smooth, unthreaded area for the rubber washers to seal against. 
But the Thiokol design en­gineer failed to specify that to the bolt manufacturer, Mitchell said. "The groove of the thread kind of tunnels un­der that rubber and would al­low gas to get under it," he said. 
Profits forecast in 

U.S. industry poll 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U.S. manu­facturing executives see only a one-in-four chance of a reces­sion this year and by a wide margin expect profits and ex­ports to be up over 1987 levels, an industry group said Wednes­day. 
The National Association of Manufacturers said a survey of 100 chief executive officers showed high levels of confi­dence about the economy and little concern about fallout from last October's stock mar­ket plunge. 
"The survey shows that manufacturers are more opti­mistic than economists," said Jerry Jasinowski, the associa­tion's executive vice president and chief economist. 
Jasinowski said that, as a result of the upbeat survey, he plans to increase the group's forecast of gross national prod­uct growth in the first three months of 1988 from an anemic 
0.6 percent to "between 1 and 2 percent." 
Questioned in the survey were 100 manufacuturing exec­utives who sit on the trade group's board of directors. The survey was conducted on Feb. 5 during an annual meeting at Marco Island, Fla. 


Study essentials 
dent Center. Stocked with all the study essentials, 
Freshmen Richelle Aschenbrenner and Kelly Madden 
refreshments, music, and a large supply of books the 
hit the books in the Alumni Room of LaFortune Stu-
two are prepared for a long evening. 
•


'Living art' IS 'off the wall' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sometimes, Stephen Taylor Woodrow can't wait to be off the wall. 
Especially after six or seven hours of posing as one of "The Living Paintings" at a Manhat­tan art museum. 
"You get panic attacks. You think, 'Everyone's staring at me,"' said Woodrow, a British performance artist whose piece explores the relationship between art and its audience. 
"When I eat, they see every little bit going into my mouth." 
Five days a week, Woodrow, covered with black spray paint, attaches himself to a harness and dangles from a canvas on a wall at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo. 
Beside him hang artists James Melloy, painted red, and Dale Devereux Barker, in blue. 
"They're like traditional portrait scenes," said Woodrow, citing the precedent of "the English artist (J.M.W.) Turner, who tied himself to the 
fierce rows in the coalition gov­ernment.

Austria 
There were rumors that continued from page 1 W aldheim was preparing to 
Unidentified sources quoted resign. A source close to the 
by Austrian news media said president, speaking on condi­
Waldheim and the conserva­tion of anonymity, called the 
tives accepted it only after reoort "devastating." 
GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your potential, look into the many opportunities available in NAVY MEDICINE. • Medical Scholarships • Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors • Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. • excellent Medical Facilities • Competitive Salary & Benefits • Navy Officer fringe benefits A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus February 17 & 18 in the Pre-Professional Office Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. An information booth will be outside the Ubrary 1-800-527-8836 NAVY*-OFFICER.  
LEAD TilE AfiVENTURF.  

mast of a ship to see what it was like in a storm." 
"But our hanging here, I sup­pose, is fairly untraditional," he conceded. 
Each living painting portrays a mood. Melloy slouches and seems bored, but agrees to shake hands with an onlooker; Barker, looking shy and sad, tentatively extends his hand to be touched; Woodrow, the hostile one, frowns, brusquely gestures to a middle­aged woman to move closer, then yanks her hair. 
But Waldheim, the 69-year­old former secretary-general of the United Nations, said again Wednesday he had no in­tention of resigning. 
He said Hans Rudolf Kurz, the chairman of the panel, ''has unequivocally stated that there was no culpable conduct on my part and that I was not involved in any war crime actions." 
STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHICAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU­DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'S OF OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE TO BUDGET TRAVELERS. 
ouncil Travv 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL 
1---(312) 951·0585----t 


~-~-----~---­


NO phone home 
Tax 
continued from page 1 

Oakes "but it was really kind of fun. " 
Community resonse to the TAP is positive and many tax­payers appreciate the service. Gratitiude is one of the benefits students reap from the TAP. "Whenever I finish a return most people are really grate­
ful, because it's 1ree ana they 
might be getting bigger 
refunds" said Evelyn Wessel, 
a senior at Saint Mary's. 

To prepare for the program 
participating students must 
take a federal tax course and 
six training sessions headed by Milani. The training sessions focus on the types of problems students will encounter while preparing tax forms. If un­usually difficult problems arise taxpayers are referred to one of the two major centers at Hansel Neighborhood Center or the South Bend Public Li­brary, where Certified Public Accountants are available along with the students, he said. 
In addition to the ten TAP centers throughout Michiana, two mobile 'SWAT' teams (Students Working at Taxes) visit people unable to get to the centers. The SWAT teams are called to nursing homes, hospi­tals and private homes to pro­vide the tax service. 
Freshman Margaret O'Hara talks to her dad over the Calling home can be comforting, in more ways than phone in the first floor of LaFortune Student Center. one. 






Marijuana 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -One marijuana cigarette is as bad for the body as four or five ordinary cigarettes, and regular pot users may face the same lung cancer risk as pack-a-day smokers, says the author of a new study. 
"Our study deflates some­what the myth that smoking just a little bit of marijuana can't be that bad for you com­pared with tobacco, since 
tobacco  smokers  generally  
smoke  far  more,"  said  Dr.  
Donald Tashkin.  

The reason is the way pot users smoke, tending to take deep puffs and hold them in. 
The new study found that this style of smoking means one joint, or marijuana cigarette, deposits four times as much tar in the lungs as one tobacco cig­arette. And it results in five times as much carbon monoxide in the bloodstream. 
"The smokers of only a few joints of marijuana a day may have at least as great a risk of 

Grades 
continued from page 1 
in Logan Center, the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program and in dorm activities. Outside the University I don't have any practical work experience, but here at the University I write computer programs for an eco­nomics professor." 
But are most Notre Dame students too serious about grades? Assistant Dean Robert Waddick thinks not. "I think (Notre Dame) students are the same as other students. I don't think the students at Notre Dame are overly concerned with GPA," said Waddick, but added he feels students consid­ering law and medical schools usually are. 
"I think (pre-med students at Notre Dame) are conscious of 
GPA because they have a goal in mind," said Father Joseph Walter, chairman of pre­

ND '61
professional studies in the Col­lege of Science. He said he does 

ironwood 
not feel Notre Dame students 

are "cut-throat" at all. wines and spirits
Walter said admission to medical school is competitive but doesn't require an ex­ Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144  
tremely average.  high grade point "Last year we had  1725 NORT!1 IRONWOOD DR  SOUTH B[ND, IN 41i635  
about 125 students with GPAs  

above 3.2. Only about three stu­

study lists risks 
developing lung cancer, if not a greater risk, as the average tobacco smoker," said Tash­kin, a researcher at the Univer­sity of California at Los An­geles. 
He estimates that three or four joints a day could pose about the same lung cancer risk as three-quarters of a pack or a full pack of cigarettes. 
There  are  20 cigarettes to  a  
pack.  
Tashkin  said  his  research  

suggests that pot smokers may also face an elevated risk of heart attacks. 
His latest study was pub­lished in Thursday's New En­gland Journal of Medicine. 
Experts have long suspected that marijuana smoke is harm­ful to the lungs, but there has been little hard evidence. Six years ago, a panel of the Na­tional Academy of Sciences concluded that pot smoking probably has similar effects as tobacco, and heavy prolonged use may lead to cancer. 
Surgeon General C. Everett Koop has called marijuana "a major public health problem in the United States." 

• 
Are you an Accounting Mq_jor? 

• 
Would you like some experience? 

• 
Are you a dedicated, hard worker? 

•would 
you be interested in a paid position? 


The Observer is looking for a 
CONTROLLER 
The Observer is looking for YOU 
Applications should include a two page personal statement and a brief resum€. 
he deadline for applications is FRIDAY, FEB 12. 
dents were not accepted (to medical schools) who had 3.2 or better," he said. 
Pre-professional students at Notre Dame need not worry, however. "We're probably one of the best sources of students for medical school in the country," Walter said, adding that a journal for college ad­visers recently ranked Notre Dame eleventh in the nation for medical sch«?ol acceptances. 
Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Ser­vices, said students should not worry about getting jobs be­cause of GPA. "We don't want students to believe that if they don't graduate from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame with a 3.5, they won't get a job. That's ridiculous.'' 

-~ CJ 1.1 ~~ ~@m~ Special Olympics needs volunteers to help coach basketball. Three different teams need your help at these times: Monday & Wednesday: 4:45-5:30 5:45-7:00 7:00-8:30 Referees are needed for weekend basketball games. (Refs are paid $10 per game) For more information call Jon at  
283-2CD6 or Sue Koffmann at Logan Center 289-4831 ~  VC  




Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling  For personal~ confidential  
on campus at  interview with no obligation~  
Moreau Seminary  please write or calla vocation  
Notre Dame, IN  director Box 541~ Notre Dame~ IN  
46556  
How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood?  For appointment. call between  
8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6385  
What is the academic  

Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 


and formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray 
if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
-~ 


Viewpoint
Thursday, February 11, 1988 page 7 

Valentine's Day: a time to reflect 
Valentines Day is Sunday. The for your peers at Notre Dame, the simply dissolve away as you are healthy and life-giving. As we enjoy the florists and postal workers will be busy people you live with and study with, handed a diploma, or even because you cards and flowers, I hope we each feel delivering the traditional tokens of af­your friends, to have those same un­meet the person you want to marry. It loved and accepted not just for our fection. I don't really mind the com­reachable expectations; the enemy you will take an act of the will to destroy physical beauty but for our total per­mercialism of this event--I enjoy being know can do the most damage. (Of these standards or I fear the same fel­sonhood. remembered with cards and carnations course, unrealistic expectations about low telling fat jokes in the dining hall as much as anyone. It is important to appearance are not limited to the male today will be criticizing his wife of to­Lastly, I hope to attend future feel loved. gender nor to only physical appearance morrow because she hasn't yet lost all Keenan Revues. Maybe sometime I'll 
In my work with the Office of Uni­but can be just as easily applied to that weight after her last pregnancy. see an act that satirizes guys who in­versity Ministry, I meet and talk with areas of performance, statues, wealth There is simply no room for such dulge in ridiculous standards and ex­many couples who are in love. Most of and lifestyle.) I am, however, limiting demeaning attitudes in a loving rela­pectations for women. Now that would ~ 
these couples are engaged and prepar­these remarks to physical appearance. tionship between equal partners. Not be funny! ing for marriage. Others are in serious As I reflect on these two events, the now, not later. relationships and considering a com­article and the revue, I find them not As we celebrate this Valentines Day, Tracey Sandman is the Coordinator of mitment to a future together. All are to be coincidental but closely interr­let us challenge each other to set ex­Marriage Preparation Programs at the asking questions and exploring what it elated. Cruel jokes about women's ap­pectations in our rPI::~tionshins th::~t are Office of University Ministry. takes to love a person for a lifetime. pearance and behavior, whether told in I'd like to share some reflections on a public revue or in private conversa­love and relationships and the effect tion, reflect the teller's attitudes and two recent experiences have had on my expectations which in turn affect both reflections. how men perceive themselves and what 
P.O. Box Q 
they will do to achieve those expecta­
Tracey Sandman 
tions. No single person or group need shoulder the blame for establishing Women's hoops The goal, as we perceive it, is to pres­these objectionable standards, but we sure the government of South Africa to
guest column 

all share in the responsibility to change thanks fans change its apartheid policy. Unfortun­
them. ately, much of America is doing just 
The first experience was two weeks Which brings me to Valentines Day, Dear Editor: the opposite. Divestment only creates ago. I read a front page story in the the time to celebrate love. I have yet The Women's Basketball team and a short-term squeeze. In response, the Observer about eating disorders among to meet a couple in love who'did not coaching staff would like to thank South Africans realize that they can women at Notre Dame. It was shocking want to enjoy a lifelong, meaningful re­everyone who attended our Tennessee manufacture products at home that to learn that one of five women on this lationship together. game for the enthusiastic support of our they used to import. For one, this boosts campus suffer from anorexia, bulimia Though the phrase "falling in love" program. employment and GNP. Now it is at the or a combination of both. It seems clear is the common description of what hap­It was exciting for us to play in front point that South Africa is actually ex­that the personality profile common to pens when you meet that special per­of our biggest crowd of the season. Al­porting for profit many items that they these disorders--perfectionists, over­son, it wrongly suggests that love just though we were disappointed with the used to have to import. The only ones achievers driven to success--fits happens to us. Love is far from a pas­outcome of the game, we were none­hurt by divestment are the blacks, who numerous Notre Dame students. Yet sive experience. An act of the will is theless inspired by the crowd. Tennes­were poor to begin with. Their position these factors alone cannot account for required to love a person for a lifetime. see may be ranked number four in the gets worse as the improving economy the number of people affected by these In a sacramental marriage (which country, but our fans are number one! increases the white government's illnesses. Our society's image of women most Notre Dame students intend for We hoped you enjoyed the game and power and control. as models and starlets significantly in­themselves) we are called to a love that will continue to support our program fluences all women's self-images. For places no conditions on our partner. In as we move toward the "Top Twenty." Instead of divestment, America every woman battling the torture of an other words, we promise that no matter We intend to avenge our first loss to should invest in South Africa. If eatiing disorder, there are probably what happens we will be true to this DePaul, so please come out Sunday, America's trade grew to the point at two or three more whose own images person, "For better or worse, in good Feb. 28, for a FAN-TASTIC game! which South Africa depended upon our are equally poor but acted out in less times and bad," etc. This unconditional Muffet McGraw goods, then we could pressure them in severe, though still debilitating ways: love does not follow automatically from Head Coach much the same way that OPEC ran an insecurity, self-doubt and self-dislike. the experience of falling in love with a Women's Basketball oil embargo against the United States. The pressures to look a certain way beautiful person. A daily commit~ent Feb. 10, 1988 A stronger presence in the South create a restricted quality of life and is necessary to successfully live a life African economy would give the States speak poorly of what our society values. of love and respect. a stronger voice. If the presence be­
The second experience was attending I am concerned about the men and Divestment won't comes strong enough, the South Keenan Revue. It was my first oppor­women who buy into the standards for Africans would have no choice but to tunity to see first-hand what I had heard appearance and behavior set by others. solve problems listen. With divestment, we are only iso­about for so many years, and I enjoyed How will their attitudes and their jokes lating ourselves from any position of it. I like satire, especially clever satire, affect their future relationships, espe­Dear Editor: authority and influence we might have and I saw some great skits. I regret cially with a spouse? Do people assume We are very disturbed to read in this had or hoped to attain. By investment, though, the disproportionate number of that such ideas are simply de rigeur paper that there is such an uprising to and a stronger control of the South acts regarding over-weight women and for college students and will, like the divest in Coca-Cola. While we are African economy, the goal of ending women as sex objects. It is one thing dining hall food, be gone forever upon against apartheid and believe that apartheid can be accomplished. for an anonymous society to set un­graduation? Do they have one set of demonstrating and creating awareness realistic and unreasonable standards standards for women in general but an­may be helpful, we would like to point Matthew Cleary for women's appearance and behavior; other for those they love? I don't believe out one thing that these protestors do Patrick Kusek it is difficult enough to fight the enemy that. Like love, attitudes about appear­not seem to realize--divestment does Flanner Hall you can't see. It is quite another matter ance are not passive. They will not not work. Feb. 9, 1988 
Doone~bury 
tVtR HtARJ) OF RETIN-A. 
SON? IT'S A V£1<'/IMPOR­
TAm NtiAJ M&lJION&. IT j A1A!<£5 tuRINKL£5 60 
. 1 AWAY... 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ot the admimstration of either institution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the ma1ority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the school community. and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners. IS encouraged. 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day
I KNOW, 
HONeY. MOMM>:: Htil-G&T fJAfJ/?Y'S OVCRIT. 
I \
l7'fiNG. 

"When a person is down in the world, an ounce of help is better than a pound of preaching." 
Edward G. Bulwer-Lyton 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
BusOness Manager ............................ John Ox rider Managing Editor. . Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager . Molly Killen News Editor ... ...... Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark 
News Editor... . 
Editor·in-Chief .. ...... . ... Kevin Becker 

... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... . .. Chris Murphy 
Projects Manager ..................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor . . . Oenms Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ... . . . . . . . Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor . ...... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton 
Photo Editor.. .. . . ...... Jim Carroll 




Accent
page 8 Thursday, February 11, 1988 
Tricks to tackling social tragedies 

sandwiched between waffles, peanut butter was the star of the show. 
In retrospect. I can say that all the viewers who picked up some kitchen hints from these segments are nutritionally set now that they find themselves in college without a wealth of tremendously appetizing dishes available to them. 
The "ZOOM" kids did not just encourage my creativity with food groups, but they also taught me a trick which has gotten me through many a seven-minute conversation lulls. There is no real name for this deft move but I call it "ZOOM butterfly arms." If you do not know it now, let me try to describe it. 
First, stand with your arms extended at your waist. Slowly bring your forearms together, crossing them with your right arm closest to your chest. When your arms cross at the elbows, keep your elbows to­gether but uncross your forearms. When they are paral· and then once you have the basics down, speed the whole process up a bit. The fun part comes when you can do it quickly, and no one can figure out how you do it. 
Fine and dandy, you may say. Now what do I do with this sought-after skill? True, this is not a move you do walking across campus, nor is it some­thing used to impress a poten­tial employer at an interview. This is a party move. A "hey, no one-is-talking-or-looking-at­each-other" move. Like I said, it lifts the seven-minute lull. 
Although there were no lulls to be found at an SYR this weekend, we started talking about things people do like the butterfly arms, and we put to­gether a brief list of "Stupid Date-Party Tricks." Of course, we had to clarify if these were 
a) stupid tricks you do on a date, or b) tricks you have to do if your date (the person or the event, I guess) turns out to be stupid. Here are a few we came up with: 
I. Making faces--for example, puffing your cheeks out so you look like a chipmunk, and then flaring your nostrils so you look like a chipmunk on the prowl. 
2. 
Contorting your body in such a way as to display every possible double-jointed part of your anatomy--for example, bending only the top third of your fingers or thumbs back­wards. Or, as one limber lass demonstrated Saturday, pulling your ankle up to your hip and then almost in front of your thigh. 

3. 
Figuring out if you can curl your tongue or roll it on its side; if you can wiggle your ears or raise your eyebrows one at a time; or which way your hair curls. 

4. 
Swapping scar stories: "When I was two, I slipped in the bathtub and that is where this quarter-inch scar on my eyebrow came from." 

5. 
Balancing drinks (yours and those of others) on your head. You don't just stand still then, however. You balance while you boogie. 


This is just a small selection of "Stupid Date-Party Tricks." Of course, the day after an event it is sometimes difficult to re­member just what you did do to keep yourself and everyone else entertained, but maybe these ideas will come in handy sometime. 
It can't hurt to have a few tricks up your sleeve because you don't want to be the cause of a comment like one I heard Saturday: "I have a stupid date, but to make matters worse, (he or she) can't do any tricks." 
Which sport beats the cold? 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Christine Walsh Photos by Zoltan (J.y 
"I love hockey. I've always been a Gophers fan, and it's great that Notre Dame is competitive this year. Notre Dame hockey is awesome, and there's no sport like it when the fighting starts. Violence: It's the only place you can get it on campus." 
Kelly Madden Freshman 

"Water polo is, by far, the best winter sport. We haven't lost a match yet. Actually, we only prac­tice in the wintertime. We com­pete in the spring and fall. As far as spectator sports go, hockey was a riot the other night." 
Bob Brutvan sophomore 

"More people see the basketball games. They're televised, and it's probably the most recognized winter sport at Notre Dame. I'm more interested in college bas­ketball than any other sport. After football season's over, I watch basketball, and I don't watch anything else." 
Oeorge Babk Senior 





"I guess hockey is the most prominent right now. It's the most exciting of the sports. There's a lot of action, and the fact that they can do all of that on skates amazes me." 
Susie Paulik Junior 

"Basketball is my favorite Notre Dame sport. I've played the game, and I've always enjoyed it. Sports like hockey aren't popular in the south where I'm from. I was raised on basketball. I have season tick­ets." 
Monica Murray Senior 
"I like hockey because tickets are free, and the team is doing really well this season. They've really turned around theirsport. They've just regained varsity status, and have really turned around their sport. It's a change from your basic football and basketball every year." 
John Quinn Junior 

N
ext to "Kidsworld," my fa­vorite television show as a kid was "ZOOM." 
My mom always found the cooking lessons amusing be­cause nine out of ten times the dish of the day had peanut but­ter in it. Whether it was put on toast with raisins and bananas, or swirled into ice cream and 
Mary Berger 
Back In the High Ufe 
lei and you appear to be praying, bring your left forearm over closest to your chest. Con­tinue to uncross your arms all the way until you are back with your arms extended out at waist level. 
That is the basic butterfly technique. Be sure to keep your hands free of each other 


r 

Thursday, February 11 , 1988 The Observer page 9 
-
Tile a.--Not111 Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­ct.nt Center,IICC8Pt11 clualfted ~.mg from 10 Lm. untll4 p.m., Monday ttvuugh Friday. The a.--s.lnt u.rya office, located on the third floor of H-uo-Collge Center, accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Oeedllne for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds muat
Classifieds be pnJpald, either In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ~perday. 
LOST: An all black Nikon FA Camera 'IV  U2 COMES TO NO  ELECT  TOM  EHRHARDT  STUDENT  
NOTICES  Itash and motor dnve: To the person who borrowed it, the camera has tremendous  TICKETS  BONO, THE EDGE, LARRY, AND ADAM WILL BE SIGNING AUTOGRAPHS IN  BILL BAILEY  SENATE DISTRICT 2  
sentimental value but can be replaced  THE FARLEY PENTHOUSE TONIGHT  I want to marry you end take you away  ELECT TOM EHRHARDT SENATE DIS·  
Sony Dloketteo Contact Tim D1erks of MadMacs for the best pnce on Sony DS{)D 3.5" d1skeHes for your MaCintosh r other computer. Call  -the 111m inside, however. is of the Cogswell Family's visit and therefore priceless. If you have an aHack of con· sc1ence send the film to Mark Dillon 203  WANTED: TWO G.A.s FOR UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL AMY £2845  IN HONOR OF MONICA VEGA'S 21ST BIRTHDAY COME PARTY WITH THE BAND AND FARLEY'S SPECIAL "PARTY GIRL"  from ell ol this. Your Secret Admirer  TR/CT 2 ELECT TOM EHRHARDT SENATE DIS· TRICT 2  
283-2 t 01  and help support the Macin·  E. Navarre St. South Bend. Any intorrna·  CARRIE  MCCALL;FRI&SAT,GATE3  
toeh Users Group/ GuerantOMtd lor tile TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT;  tion call 288-8673. Thanks. DID YOU ACCIDENTALLY PICK UP MY NAVY BLUE SPORTS COAT FROM THE McCANDLESSREGfNA FORMAL? IF YOU DID, IT'S PROBABLY TOO LONG ON YOU AND I HAVE YOURS. THANX. CALL KEN AT 2165.  HELP/II/I Need UCLA Tickets BIG TIME CALL 271-0868 ask lor Missy, Carol or Susan Will trade lower arena ticketsf/1 Desperately need UCLA G.A.s for my wealthy parents. They will pay big bucks or give you a good deal on a Honda. Call Tim at 1651.  CHRISSIE C., WHAT A BABEl TOP TEN QUOTES FROM WALSH SYR 10. OH, YOU'RE WEARING A MINI· SKIRT. 9.GOD, EILEEN, HOW SLOSHED IS CHRIS? 8.HEY, WHERE DID MARK AND LAURA GO? 7.SO, WHEN DID YOU START LIKING GIRLS? 6.YOU'RE BOTH HIGH·  BLUELINE CLUB TABLE,ASK TIM,PLEASEI Only 1 Day Bill Webb Day February 12, 1988  FOR  HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEBBIE YOU TEXAS WOMANifll FINALLY LEGALII AND YOU THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO EMBARRASS YOU I LARRY SAYS:RICS RANGERS NEED YOU ON THE ROAD. IRISH MUSICII JOHN KENNEDY AND  
277-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING ·CALL DOLORES 237·1949 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  FOUND: A PAIR OF BLACK LEATHER GLOVES AT THE CIRCLE BUS STOP BY THE CASH MACHINE. TO IDENTIFY CALL KEN AT 2165. LOST: Gold ring with blue stone, Has­burgh Library last week. Call Beth at 288· 6631. REWARD.  HELP/ Need 3 UCLA tlx stud or GAll 277·7137 need 1 STUDENT ticket lor UCLA game:Tim 3451 HELPI f NEED UCLA GA'S/1 JOHN X1654  LIGHTED IN MY DOGBOOKI/ 5. WHAT'S THE MATIER? ARE YOU AFRAID? 4.WE PAID A LOT OF MONEY FOR THIS, YOU OWE USI/13.f'LL HURT YOU IF YOU DON'TII 2.VOULEZ VOUS COUCHEZ AVEC MOl? 1.SO. ARE THESE YOUR DOGBOOK DATES? ....MARK AND RYAN-THANKS FOR AN AWESOME TIMEIII YOU BOTH ARE GREATI LAURA AND TRACt  Who i&Was Bill Webb? Many people have asked this question the past few weeks. Bill Webb, man or myth? The answer is that Bill Webb was a man just like any other man. But wasn't regular, he wasn't ordinary, and he made a difference. HEY YOU, SALTY DOGSIII FROM THE PARIETAL BUSTERS.  FRIENDS ARE PERFORMING FRI. AND SAT. EVENINGS FROM 8 TILL 12 AT MR. CHRISTIAN'S DILEMA ON PRAIRIE AVE. (NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA) ALSO AVAILABLE FOR PRIVATE PAR· TIES, CALL 233 6298 THERE'S A BRAND NEW GROOVE THAT'S GOIN' 'ROUND THE GROOVE. BCAC TALENT SHOW  
MRS. COKER 233·70011. TO THE ETTY GIRL whose car had a IIHie trouble starttng a hHie after noon, the car with the numerical Nebraskan LARRY SAYS;IRISH ICERS ARE ROCKIN,SO LETS ROLL WITH THEM ON THE ROAD  FOR RENT FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND. 277­3097, 683·8889. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-095&'<!55·  NEED 2 GA'S FOR UCLA WILL BUY OR TRADE FOR 2 STUDENT TIX CALL JILL 2702 HELP III N.D.Grad Dad in for Soph. parents weekend. Need two tickets (either stu­dent or G.A.) for UCLA game. Please  JUNIORS I TONITE IS JR NITE AT.•• CLUB MOVE CLUB MOVE CLUB MOVE BE THERE.  Yo, Cathy Stacy! Happy Birthday! How does it feel to be 20 years young? Love, The Observer Punster MAUREEN llo MONICA  FEB 13, 7 P.M., LIB. AUD. CHIPS FEB. 23·24 The Hairy Buffalo waa seen /eevfng South Quad end seemed to be heodfng toward North Dining Hall. Need tix lor UCLA b'ba/1 ···stud or other­ 
Let me do your TYPING/ Cot/ 784-2963 3:30-8pm S4 por poge you ouppty poper  3684 EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288·  call ERIN: 284·5252 MUST HAVE 2·4 UCLA GA'S CJ X1382  JR NITE AT  Thanks tor stopping by laat weekend. You were the llle of the party. ·Mike  wise ··WILL PAY CALL x2576 Rick.  
I LOST/FOUND 1 LOST WALLET -GREY, LEATHER 'IV I D. KEYS ·FOUR KEYS ON SILVER  0955 I WANTED WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE for Mac 51 2e with no SCSI port. Call 239·5772 and leave a message for MaH.  .................................. I NEED 4 MARQUETIE TfXS. CALL MIKE 232-0550 PERSONAtij OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER llo LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  CLUB MOVE JUNIORS CLUB MOVE JUNIORS CLUB MOVE TONITE TONITE TONITE JUNIORS·  YO ANN-DOG llo COLLEEN How are things going In SMC-Iand? Boy you nurses sure can take your medicine, especially when DEATH-ly sick. That Ia unless you don't ahow up...........................................,. ..  The party at your house Sat. was fun, But the party at mine made the night great. Sweet & Iunny guys like you are rare Hope to see you out soon. ·Charlie Chesw1ck I know this ooundo weird, but did anyone lose a pair of sneakers at the 21 party in Lyons Friday night? II so, call 3026 to identify and cfa1m.  
RING /lost them sometime on Saturday  
Z6 or Sunday 'l/1 at e1ther the Huddle or South D1mng Hall. Please call Rich at 272·4516 LOST MAN'S GOLD RING WITH ONYX SETTING. FRIDAY NIGHT, IN  Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. .....................  SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORNINGS 914-3814224  GET OUT OF YOUR BRIDGET'S I COMMON'S AUT I DO CLUB MOVE I TONITE  THE UNDERGROUND presents: John Tyler Ill (guitar & vocals) Friday 2'12, 9pm "basement of Grace Hall"  HELP! RIDE NEEDED ·OHIO TURNPIKE EXIT 11 2119-21.11 WILL PAY CALL KRISTEN £1759 TOP 5 REASONS WHY WE CALLED OUR ROOMMATE SAT. MORNING: 1)  
O'LAUGHLIN AUD. OR IN BACK PAS· SAGE OF ART EXHIBIT AREA SEN­ MALE TRANSFER STUDENT LOOKING FOR CHEAP SUB-LET FOR SUMMER  JUNIORS I  need rd 10 winona,Mn tri call 1435  Wanted to CLAIRily why he was there. 2) We wanted to say hi. 3) We wanted  
TIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 232·1555. REWARD LOST ·IRISH FRIENDSHIP RING  MONTHS CALL X3484. OVERSEAS JOBS ..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer..Austrafla,Asfa. All  IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANY DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY,  SO  WHAT IF YOU DON'TA:AN'T DANCE ?1?1  K;~thleen. the lace ol an angel, eyes like diamonds. To much beauty lor anyone to handle. Zoot  to wake him up. 4) We got him ONE date for Sat. 5) Because someone was iook1ng for Claire. Concerned Observers  
(Ctaddaugh) 1 lost a small (siZe 4) lnsh fnendshlp nng last Fnday n1ght This ring  fields. 5900-2000 mo. Slghtsee­lng.Free Into. Write IJC,PO Bx 52·  FEB. 11.  CLUB MOVE CLUB MOVE  "LEARN  TO WRITE AN RESUME"  EFFECTIVE  
has great sentimental value, so PLEASE return n11 you lound 1!. A reward Will be offered. Call 283·3484 11 you have my nng Thanx FOUND AT THE LEWIS SYR A NAVY  IN04,Corone Del Mar,CA 92625. ································································ NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND. CALL RICH AT 1148. ·o DESPERATELY NEED RIDE r6  CELEBRATE VALENTINES DAY 2 TO 7 GET-TOGETHER (SATURDAY) CALL ROBIN AT 255·5974 FOR MORE INFO. Business llo Society In Japan  CLUE MOVE TONITE TONITE TONITE  GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWtll GET A DATE NOWtll GET A DATE NOWtll SENIOR FORMALIIII  Preoentatlon by Marilyn Bury, aaola· tant director of Career llo Placement ServiCft. 4:00 p.m. today, Heoburgh Llbrery Lounge. Students of all maJora end claaaeo Invited.  
BLUE NAME  SPORTCOAT THE BRAND IS JOHN ALEXANDER; MADE  PURDUE THIS WKND CALL STEVE AT £1078  Optional Credit-Financial Aid International Internship Programs  CLUB MOVE I  "LEARN  TO  WRITE AN RESUME"  EFFECTIVE  
FOR G. FOX CALL BRENNAN AT 2158 TO CLAIM. LOST: Patr of black HOTFINGER gloves Sat N1te between ACC and Dillon If found please call Rob 1784 beCause my hands are cOld. Thanx  NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND THIS WKND-WfLLING TO SHARE RENTAL· PAULA £2674 ........................... HELP ME,SOMEBODY HELP ME. I NEED A RIDE TO U OF M FOR THIS WEEKEND! I WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND I'M NO CHEESEBALL TOMMY  406 Colman Bldg., 811 1al Ave. Seallle, WA 98104 (208) 623-5539 ATIENTION ALL HISTORY AND AMST MAJORS Volunteers needed to guide tours and give slide show presentations lor South· hold Restoration In South Bend. Learn  SO WHERE IS IT ?1?1 DOWNTOWN NEXT TO SENOR KEL­LY'S BE THERE I TONITE I  Coast to Coast II the taste with the most Coke •• KATHRYN HUMM " Soft lighting, flowers, Knots Landing. How 'bout It?  PreMntallon by Marilyn Bury, aaalo· tant director of Career llo Placement Services. 4:00 p.m. today, Heaburgh Llbrory Lounge. Studenta ol all ma)oro and cfaaoes Invited. BRIAN O'GARA: What impression??? Your nag must have been flying at hall· mast.. ...Or was that it???  
Losl LoBI Black and GOld Seiko walch If found call Rob at £2506. Reward Reward FOUND CALCULATOR BY SOUTH DINING HALL TUESDAY MORNING. CALL KRIS AT 2790 TO CLAIM. REWARD:LOST CHEMISTRY BOOK £  271-9467 FORSALE _ ______.l  excning facts about the citylll Must be dependable and have own transports· tion. For more Into contact Leslie Choitz. Exec director 234-3441. Nancy J Happy V·Day Remember, What maHers is you Guess Who?  JUNIORS I CLUB MOVE I JUNIORS I CLUB MOVE I  Laat Chance For Spring Break '88! Limited space remains at South Padre, North Padre, Day1ona Beech, Fort Wal· ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado tor skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchaoe Touro toll tree 1-800-321-5911 lor reoerva­tlons and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted.  NDH--Wed--6:30: Were you the guy wearing a RED shirt and SUSPENDERS in E-line? if so, the g1rl who's been seeping you thinks you have gorgeous eyes I GM (Maybe I'll see you again at dinner?)  
INSIDE COVER  Martin M-36 acoustic guitar $775 232­ BOO ANDREAS  Theology Forum Members: Pleaoe at­ 
FOUND SMC 88 claBB nng at 733 St. Lou1s Sl. Sat. 2·7 am dunng performance  6528 Hohner  5-string  bluegrass  banjo··  Enjoy Coke.  FOR UMOC IF HIS NAME DOESN'T SCARE YOU .. HIS FACE WfLLII  tend an Important meeting tonight at 10:00 P.M. In the llrat floor lounge of St. Edwards Hall. Your fellow  W.T.W. Congratulations on everything. NO Law and May have got to fight to get the best  
of Robert Duvall and Napalm Surfers.Call  prfessional quality $375 232·6528  students-Dave Klnkolt, Marty Tracey  there is. Rock on/  
Dirt 288·3421. Yamaha PA, slave amp, mini-monitors I know thoo sounds wetrd, but did anyone S1500 tor system 232-6528 lose a patr ot sneakers at the 21 party 1n Lyons on Saturday night? II so, call Tascam 4-track Portastudio Great tor 3028 to Identity and claim bands, demos. $850 232-6528 FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES NEAR Cruise lor 2 lrm Ft Lauderdale .VSdays ZAHM HALL CALL JEN AT 3193 TO in Freeport ¢3days near Orlando·$160 CLAIM. Call 259·4317 after 5 Candy is dan:dy,  EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK! JPW needs student workers. Call 239· 7814 for more info! SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMAL!!! SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMAL!!! BID SALES MARCH 1,2,3 SENIOR FORMALIII WATCH YOUR MAIL FOR DETAILS  Can anyone out there speak Swedish? II so call "2304 LISTEN TO THE NO PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES! ON WVFI'S CAMPUS PERSPECTIVES TALKSHOW TONIGHT FROM 10 TO 11 WVFI·AM 840 CALL IN AT 239-6400 Donut, Hope all your Valentine wishes come true I  and Anne Marie Wolf -will dlocuoa their papers on Hebrew Scriptures. Plzze will be aerved. Support your tel­low atudenta. Susse, was fur ein Tag 1st haute? Haute ist eln ganz besonderer Tag fur mein lit· tiest bunnyl HAPPY ANNIVERSARY ••• Bimmmer Boo HAIRCUTS:Oniy $4 ill I'll come to YOUR room I Call Jean 4244 JOY SISOLAK  MONICA VEGA MONICA VEGA THE WORLD WAITS FOR YOU TO CELEBRATE YOUR 21st BIRTHDAYII ENJOYII Cathy Stacy· Happy Birthday! Roses are red, violets are blue, come to my place Friday and there is something tor you. ·Snuggles  
Roses are neat, But Observer ads  SENIOR FORMALIIII ................... NDH--Wed--6:30: Were you the guy wearing a RED shirt and SUSPENDERS in E-line? It so, the girl who's been scoping you thinks you have gorgeous eyes I GM  GUMBYGATE...TOM DOYLE. WOULD YOU ELECT A MAN WHO WOULD STEAL A GUMBY FROM AN INNO· CENT SCOOTER? THIS LUNATIC CAN­NOT BECOME PRESIDENT....CHIEF AND THE EVIL ONE. 3)0UESTIONS:1 )Which wo­men?2)Waiting for what?3)What kind of guy? (Busy llaHering mysel~ RJT  3I'M SOOO SORRYII ..PSYCHI HEY, AT LEAST EVERYONE KNOWS SOME­ONE CARES! FUTURE F U I C SHELL, WELCOME TO NDI GET READY FOR THE THREE LEGGED AACEI KAR & JANET TO ALL THOSE WHO KNOW KATHY PANOS: BEWARE THERE WILL BE  HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY CATHY I Love Trish and Liz How many s~-ups are you up to now? ATIENTION JUNIORS: The Senior Trip depends on youf Turn in your preferences form today at the call office. Make a difference/ Oues· lions? Call Kathleen at 4220 or Theresa at 4071.  
Are really sweet.  (Maybe I'll see you again at dinner?) Stevie, Be Mine?\  OREO MISER· SO, WHEN DO f GET TO USE THE HAT? GREEN FIELD AWAITS I -THE JELLY DOUGHNUT  THREE OF THEM ON CAMPUS THIS WEEKEND FOR SPW/f The Boycott is Over The BoycoH is Over  Monica Vegellll A certeln OUIJa foretold me that today Ia your 21 11 Blrthdoyt Hopi It 11 out of theo world! We !ova youtl Pebble Belich  - 
Let your sweetheart see,.,./ love expressed through O~Jf~Mft'er  Happy Birthday Trloha Chembere from one Observer goddess to another!! The famous 112's of '88:  ................................................................ SEAN AND THE SUN KINGS. Thurs. Night at CLUB 23, 10 pm $ 1 Cover ............................................. SEAN AND THE SUN KINGS. Thurs. Night at CLUB 23, 10 pm $ 1 Cover  '"COMPO"' Jual wanted to wloh you a HAPPY Vatenlfne'a Day! (YEA!) From your  FOUND/ One watch, lost sometime TueB. nile, between the foot and head of my bed. Call Suzie, 2839 or stop by 329 Walsh to claim.  
Valentine classlfleds or display ads.  1) Haff way to 20/11 2) Haff way to bikinis  ··········································· SEAN AND THE SUN KINGS. Thurs.  "accent" to your affinity lor 'Z., I.U. hoopo, the beach and the muolc of  They're Coming! They're Coming\  
Qassifieds will be accepted from 1Oam to  (alright, shorts!!) 3) Haff way to housing!!  Night at CLUB 23, 10 pm $ 1 Cover ...............................................................  Bruce llo Johnny, you are truly opeclol. I'm 10 happy that wloheo do • .,..  Soon they will be all over a Bookstore court near youfl  
IPnfevery weekday. The Observer is located in room 314laFortune or call239-7471 for  4) Haff way to graduation 5) ????? Thanks for choosing the Golden Dome.  A TRIBUTE TO BOB MARLEY, TtiE KING OF REGGAE. CLUB 23, FRIDAY NIGHT STARTING AT 10. NO COVER,  II,.. come true. (Good luck thlo weekend In Iowa -you'll do aweoomel) Love,  YeB, ladles and gentlemen, TME LABIAN MINERS  
further information.  You're too good a friend to have missed!  $1  MOLSONS FEEL FREE TO BRING  Hooaler  ARE COMING II  
YOUR OWN TAPES  

-



page 10

-

No. 1 Owls fly past city foe Villanova 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Fresh­man Mark Macon scored a season-high 31 points and Howard Evans had 17 points and a school-record 20 assists Wednesday night, carrying No. 1 Temple over 20th-ranked Vil­lanova 98-86. 
Mike Vreeswyk scored 19 points and Tim Perry 14 as the Owls won their fifth straight and boosted their record to 19-1. Temple made 14 foul shots in the final 1:50 to preserve the victory. 
Villanova, which led 65-61 with 10:42 remaining, slipped to 16-7. The Wildcats, led by Doug West's 27 points, also had four players in double figures. 
Temple, which led 41-40 at halftime, got the first basket of the second half. But the Wildcats went on a 13-4 surge, taking a 53-47 lead with 15:51 remaining. 
Villanova clung to the lead, 
and after a basket by Tom 
Greis, led 65-61 with 10:42 to go. 
Then, the Owls outscored the 
Wildcats 10-2 to lead 71-67 with 
7:50 left. Villanova got within 71-69, but Temple, with Macon scoring three field goals, boosted its lead to 80-73 at the 
3:46 mark. 
Syracuse 84, Pitt 75 
PITTSBURGH -Matt Roe scored 25 points and point guard Sherman Douglas destroyed fifth-ranked Pit­tsburgh's man-to-man defense by scoring 12 of his team's final 15 points as No. 11 Syracuse beat the Panthers 84-75 Wed­nesday night. 
Syracuse handed the Big East-leading Panthers only their second conference loss in eight games by rallying from as many as seven points be­hind. 
The Orangemen trailed 68-66 when Stephen Thompson made a free throw and Douglas hit a 17-footer to give Syracuse, 19-5, the lead for good at 69-68 with 
6:20 left. 
Pitt, 16-3, lost for the first time in 10 home games. 
If ~Jllre ~:,roing to drink culll drive at lea<;t let the te>1 of lL'-kncM. 
Reader's Digest 


-
DON'T FORGET TO ORDER VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS! 
1 /2 dozen long-stem roses $16 1 dozen long-stem roses $32 AVOID THE RUSH, ORDER EARLVI Valentine deliveries will go out Saturday night. Hours: Monday-Saturday 12:30-5:30 
·--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------A-D_W_OR~K~S 
Purdue 72, MSU 70 
EAST LANSING, Mich.­Todd Mitchell scored 12 of his 16 points in the second half and Everette Stephens made four free throws in the stretch Wed­nesday night as No. 2 Purdue held off Michigan State 72-70 in the Big Ten. 
Purdue improved to 20-2 overall and 9-1 in the Big Ten, while the Spartans slipped to 8-12 and 3-7. 
The Spartans, who trailed by 11 points with 1: 30 remaining in the first half, scored the final five points before intermission and hit eight successive shots at the start of the second half to conclude a 13-2 run that made it 43-all with 16: 24 remaining. 
George Papadakos, who missed the Spartans' two pre­vious games with a back in­jury, came off the bench to score 17 points, 11 in their second-half comeback. Mic­higan State, which never led, was behind 55-54 after Papadakos' dunk with 10:26 remaining. 
Kentucky 69, Auburn 62 
AUBURN, Ala.-Rex Chap­man scored 25 points and fresh­man Eric Manuel added eight in the final minutes as lOth­ranked Kentucky defeated Auburn 69-62 Wednesday, in­creasing the Wildcats' lead in the Southeastern Conference. 
In other college basketball action Wednesday, Lafayette romped past Hofstra 72-52, Maryland edged Clemson 70­66, Cleveland State conquered Virginia Commonwealth 83-76, Alabama rolled past Missis­sippi State 61-48, Georgia ate up Florida 71-65, LSU clawed Mississippi 78-57, Iowa whipped Ohio State 92-75, Mar­quette defeated Canisius 85-73, Saint Louis tripped Cincinnati 80-73, DePaul scalped Bradley 88-80 Kansas chirped past Okla­homa State 78-68, Vanderbilt trounced Tennessee 90-62 and Memphis State crushed South­ern Mississippi 113-97. 
I~-~-------------,,~>"'-J 1 
A\.-~ THE KNIGHTS I 
We are only 1 
minutes from campus. We now have a brand new I MALE DEPARTMENT BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE.~ 
Haircuts are $6 with this coupon. 1 
277-1691 -' 
The Observer Thursday, February 11, 1988 

NCAA tourney tickets on sale 
Special to the Observer 
Tickets are now on sale to the general public for the March 17 and 19 first and second-round NCAA basket­ball tournament games at Notre Dame's Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
All tickets available are upper arena seats at $36.00 each. All lower-arena seats have been sold -either through the sale to Notre Dame season-ticket holders or through allotments to the eight participating teams. 
Each ticket is good for all three sessions (two games Thursday afternoon, two games Thursday evening and two games Saturday af­ternoon). Individual session tickets at $15.00 (lower arena) and $12.00 (upper arena) will be sold the days of the games, if they are available. 
Tennis team sports 4-0 record 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­
nis team puts its perfect record on the line at 3:30p.m. Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion against a struggling Eastern Michigan University team. 
So far this season, the 4-0 Irish have suprised even Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss. Not even he expected the Irish to get off to such a fast start. He attributes the success to prac­tice and an intense desire to win. 
"I'm really impressed with the team as a whole so far this year," said the first-year Irish coach. "The match against Toledo last Saturday was im­pressive. Brian Kalbas prob­ably shouldn't have played but he did. He played because he's a competitor. That's the atti­tude our team has had all year." 
That competitive edge has not been without costs. Top­seeded singles player Kalbas is doubtful for Sunday's match as a result of the groin pull he ag­gravated in the Toledo match. 
Eight teams out of the Midwest Regional will be as­signed to play in South Bend. Both an afternoon and eve­ning doubleheader (four games in all) will be played on Thursday, March 17. The four winners return for an­other doubleheader on Sat­urday afternoon, March 19. 
The teams assigned to Notre Dame will not be de­termined until the complete NCAA tournament bracket is announced on Sunday, March 13. Exact tip-off times will be announced at that time. If Notre Dame receives a bid to the NCAA tournament, there is no guarantee the Irish will be assigned to play at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center -since the NCAA tournament committee can assign each of the 64 teams to any region it chooses. 
In addition, senior captain Dan Walsh was hobbled by a sprained ankle, although he should play Sunday. 
Kalbas played on Saturday to avenge a loss dating back to last year. He hopes his injury won't hold his team back. 
"Right now I may play on Sunday, but if there's any doubt in my mind I'll sit this one out," said the junior. "Hopefully 


The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's Day Editors 
Must be available 12:30-3:30 any week day. 
For further information contact Sandy Cerimele at The Observer (239-5303) 
A PROGRAM FOR COUPLES IN A SERIOUS RELATIONSHIP WHO WANT TO EXPLORE CHOICES AND DECISIONS FOR THE FUTURE. WHICH INCLUDE AMONG OTHER THINGS. THE POSSIBILITY OF MARRIAGE. 
SRTURDRY, FEB.27TH 12-5pm 
Topics to be presented: -Singes of relntionships -EKpectntions for the future -Steps in moking heolthy decisions 
Pre-registration is required. 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office. Library Concourse or Badin Hall. 
Applications are due by Feb. 22nd
L !! 
~ 

~~~~~~~ 
Each of the eight teams assigned to Notre Dame will receive a minimum of 250 tickets for each session in which it plays. If Notre Dame receives a bid to the NCAA tournament and is as­signed either to South Bend or another ifrst-round site, ticket availability for both students and general public will be announced Monday, March 13. 
Tickets are available at the Gate 10 box office at the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center from 9:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Mail orders should include $1.50 for postage and handling. Phone orders using major credit cards can be made by call­ing 219-239-7356. There is no limit on the number of tick­ets available. Checks should be made payable to Notre Dame-NCAA. 
Mike (Wallace) can take my place at number one." 
Bayliss hopes for a quiet match against Eastern Mic­higan, so his team can gear up for its toughest portion of the season. Notre Dame's next five matches after the Hurons are against some of the top teams in the Midwest, including Northwestern, Iowa, Miami (Ohio), Purdue and Colorado. Those matches will decide if the Irish are a fluke or for real. 


Thursday, February 11, 1988 The Observer page 11 
-


~-~-­
Varsity 
continued from page 16 
Members of the field hockey team are understandably up­set. The Jan. 18 team meeting was the first time they heard of the decision. Now the players, including nine fresh­men, three of whom started, have to decide if field hockey 
William Beauchamp, surveys 
show that softball and women's 
soccer are both high-interest 
sports among women at Notre 
Dame, as well as among the 
MCC members. Only one 
other MCC school has a field 
hockey team. Women's golf 
also registered high in the in­
terest survey, and it has the 
added dimmension that, accor­
ding to Beauchamp, "its ex­
penses are minimal." 
Yes, money is the bottom line 
of these decisions which affect 
so many students and coaches 
at Notre Dame. With a former 
banker as athletic director, 
nothing less should be ex­
pected. Dick Rosenthal and the 
entire department all should be 
commended for making moves 
which, in the long run, will be 
very beneficial to Irish ath­
letics. 
But the bottom line isn't good 
enough for what has transpired 
in the last few months. Con­
sider the two stories cited at 
the top of this article. It would 
be easy to conclude that the 
decisions were made last se­
mester and the athletic depar­
tment hid them from the field 
hockey team. 
That is not true. The final 
decision to drop field hockey 
was made in January, accor­
ding to Beauchamp. 
What is true is that the deci­sions were poorly handled. Tearing up a team's practice field, reassuring the coach that there is nothing to worry about, and then coming back three months later to state the oppo­site was not the way to handle the decision. 
The athletic department should have told Lindenfeld in October that they were consid­ering dropping the program, while they were tearing up her practice field. In fact it would have been best to announce the decision last semester, to give the players more time to con­sider their options, although the people involved in the deci­sion said it was announced as soon as possible. 
Field hockey may not be as popular as ice hockey, but to the athletes involved, the sports are equally as challeng­ing and rewarding. The field hockey decision, though ul­timately a good one, was han­dled poorly. Period. 
SMC falls to ITT in final seconds 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
Trying to rebound from a loss 
at the buzzer on Tuesday night, 
the Saint Mary's basketball 
team faces Purdue-Calumet on 
the road tonight at 7:00. 
A last-second shot lifted 
l.l.T. over Saint Mary's 67-66 on Tuesday. The Belles' record now stands at 9-9. 
The Belles took an early 14-4 lead and dominated the game until the last part of the first half, when l.I.T. caught up. On a last-second desperation shot, 
1.1.T. hit a three-pointer and took a 35-30 lead at the half. 
"We played well except for the last six or eight minutes of the first half, when we let our guard down," said Belles coach ­Marvin Wood. 
During the second half, Saint Mary's ralled. With one minute left in the game, the Belles led 66-64. Saint Mary's missed a shot, and I. I.T. pulled down the rebound. 1.1.T. managed to ­keep posession for the remainder of the game. In the final seconds, I.I.T. made a three-point shot to defeat the Belles. 





Ill. 

is important enough to them to transfer from Notre Dame. 
Another group of athletes at Notre Dame went through the same experience in 1980. The hockey team was stripped of all 20 of its scholarships in a cost" cutting move by the athletic de­partment, then the team was dropped to club status to allow the players to transfer without losing a year of eligibility. 
The campus was in an uproar. Twelve articles on the decision appeared in The Ob­server in the month of February alone. Hockey was very popular (and for good rea­son), but it was cut off at the knees. 
Field hockey, on the other hand, is not nearly as popular, and the uproar on campus has been correspondingly small. 
Field hockey is a dying sport in the Midwest -Purdue's dum­ping of its eight-scholarship program is testament to that fact. 
And that trend is one of the factors the athletic department used in its decision. Notre Dame's entry to the Midwest Collegiate Conference was an­other factor. According to Ex­ecutive Vice President Father 

Anyway youslice it,Domino's Pizza® is agreat deal! 
Use all or any of the coupons and save on your next purchase from Domino's Pizza. Get rolling! Offer ends soon. 
Domino's Pizza will deliver your pizza-hot and fresh -in less than 30 minutes. Just give us a call. 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 

Call us! 
Notre Dame 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 

I~---------------,
Think Thick $5.00 
Only $5.00 tor a 12" pizza with thick crust, extra cheese and pepperoni. Good on Thursday. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. 
Fast, Free Delivery •• 
Expires: 2-29-88 
Valid at participating atoras only. 
Not valid with any other offer. 
Customer pays applicable sales tax. 


~---------------~ 
r·--------------~ 
$1.00 Off! 
$1.00 off any 12" pizza. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. 
a~ Fast, Free Delivery'" 
mm® 

Exp1res: 2-29-88 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays applicable sales tax.... 
L••••••••••••••• 
r---------------~ 


$2.00 Off! 
$2.00 off any 16" pizza. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. 

Fast, Free Delivery •• Expires: 2-:ztl-tl 
Valid at participating storaa only. Not valid w~h any other offer. Customer pays applicable sales tax. ..1 

L••••••••••••••• 
-~--------------------~-~ ----------~-----......------------­



The Observer Thursday, February 11, 1988 


Detroit next for Irish women 
By JEFF HEILERT tend our defense because they Anne Schwartz both suffered all shoot the three-pointer." knee injuries and will miss the
Sports Writer 
The Lady Titans are led by remainder of the season. Junior 
Coming off a big win at Duke 5-7 senior guard Kim Chandler. Lisa Kuhns' availability is in and facing a 2-18 Detroit squad, She is averaging 16;8 points and question after she also injun~d how can the Notre Dame wo­6.8 rebounds per game. a knee in the loss to Tennessee men's basketball team avoid a "Kim is very quick," said on Feb. 3. big letdown? Four letters will McGraw. "She also rebounds A team that once relied on answer the question -NCAA. great for a 5-7 guard. We'll the press and the fast-break 
The Irish hope to improve have to play her tough; she had has been forced to change its their chances for a bid tonight 40 points in a game earlier this game plan, according to when they host the Lady Titans season." McGraw. at the Joyce ACC. Tip-off is set Detroit's tallest player is just "With only nine healthy for 7:30. Going into tonight's 6'0 and the Irish look to domi­players, we are not a running contest, the Irish own a 13-6 nate the inside play with 6'4" team anymore,'' McGraw said. mark with nine games remain­forward Heidi Bunek and 6'2" "Especially with Diondra out, ing. center Sandy Botham. Bunek we lose so much quickness. We 
is leading the Irish in both 
"The team talked after the scoring and rebounding with have no one to replace the Duke game," said Notre Dame 18.4 points and 8.5 rebounds a quickness we lose on her side. head coach Muffet McGraw, game. Botham follows closely We've been working on running ''and everyone agreed we could at 15.4 points and 8.3 rebounds. a little in practice, and we're conceivably win the rest of our going to try to get it going games. At 22-6, we would be ''They are not as strong in­again." tough to turn down (for a NCAA side as they are outside," said Freshman swingman Sarah bid). We can't just win, though, McGraw. "Our inside people Liebscher looks to start her we have to win big." should have big games. After second game in place of Kuhns. 
The rest of the season starts seeing limited action against She responded in her first start
The Observer I John Studebaker­
with a young Detroit squad, Duke (both were in foul trouble against Duke by going 6-of-7
Facing a relatively small Detroit team, the Notre Dame women's 
which is returning only one the whole game), they should from the floor and 7-of-8 from
basketball team is looking for big performances from its inside 
starter from a 21-6 team a year be ready to go." the line to tie for team high­
players like Heidi Bunek (44). The Irish enter tonight's matchup with 
ago. The Irish recently have been point honors with the injured
a 13-6 record. 

"They are an uptempo team slowed by a rash of injuries. Kuhns. Kuhns' status against 
l:lantum 7 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 who take very quick shots," Starting forward Diondra the Lady Titans is question­
McClendon 12 0-3 0-0 0 1 0 said McGraw. We'll have to ex-Toney and reserve forward able. 
·aauartlebaurre2 3-6 1-3 3 1 7 Herzog 13 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 
continued from page 16 200 24-52 7-14 22 15 59 
Rams 

FG Pet. • .462. FT Pet. -.500. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -20. Assists . 9
for the count. Fred 

(Taylor 3). 3-PT shooting -Taylor 4-5,
Quartlebaum hit a jumper and McClendon 0-1. Technicals . none. 

Taylor hit his fourth three­
Eye Exams
pointer of the game for the final 

ProfessionalVision
Notre Dame (64) score. Taylor finished with a M FG·A FT-A R F P 
Large Selection of Frames

Dr. Ronald L. Snyder
career-high 19 points to lead Fredrick 34 6-10 2-2 2 2 14 
All Types of Contacts

Voce 32 3-7 4-4 13 4 10
Fordham. Danny O'Sullivan 

Robinson 30 7-11 0-0 6 3 14added 14. Singleton 34 2·3 0-1 2 3 4 The game marked the return J. Jackson 19 3-4 0·0 1 1 6 Stevenson 32 5-15 2-2 8 1 12
of junior forward Mark Steven­

Connor 2 0-1 0·0 0 0 0 
son. He finished with 12 points T. Jackson 6 H 0-1 0 0 2 
and eight rebounds. Paddock 11 H 0-0112 200 28-53 8-10 33 15 64 
Notre Dame 64, Fordham 59 Fordham (59) FG Pet. -.528. FT Pet. · .800. Team M FG-A FT-A R F p rebounds -5. Turnovers -19. Assists -19 
Parrotta 34 6-14 1-2 6 3 13 (Singleton 12). Technicals-none. Paterno 32 2-5 0-0 5 1 4 Halftime -Notre Dame 30, Fordham 16. O'Sullivan 34 5-11 4-8 7 2 14 Officials -Tom Grzywinski, Tom Palmer, 
Pedro 10 0-0 0-0 0 2 0 Robert Woda (all MAC). Taylor 36 7-11 1-1 1 3 19 A-10,432. 

20~ DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
South of U.S. 23 1635 N. Ironwood 277-1161 
-
-
STUDENT ESCAPES FROM INSTITUTION! 
University authorities suspect Ft. Lauderdale, but he may have fled to any of these Midway destinations: 
MIDWAY AIRLINES®  MIDWAY CONNECnON~  
Atlanta  Minneapolis/St. Paul  Benton Harbor  
Boston  Nassau  Bloomington/Normal  
Chicago (Midway)  New Orleans  Champaign/Urbana  
Cleveland  New York (LaGuardia)  Dubuque  
Columbus  Omaha  Elkhart  
Dallas/Ft. Worth  Orlando  Grand Rapids  
Denver  Philadelphia  Green Bay  
Des Moines  Phoenix  Indianapolis  
Detroit  Pittsburgh (Eff.Jt1t88l  Madison  
Ft. Lauderdale  St. Croix  Muskegon  
Ft. Myers  St. Thomas  Peoria  
Indianapolis  Tampa  South Bend  
Kansas City  Washington, DC (National)  Springfield, IL  
Las Vegas  West Palm Beach  Traverse City  
Miami  Waterloo  

Sporting flip-flops and sunglasses, the student was last seen turning cartwheels through the airport, where he caught the Midway Connectionm to convenient Chicago Midway Airport. Once in Chicago, he is believed to have hopped a quick, hassle-free flight to another Midway destination. 
Campus officials attribute his departure to an early case of spring break, as numerous faculty members recall hearing Jimmy Buffet coming from his walkman. 
To plan an escape of your own, call1-800-621-5700, or call your travel agent. 
MidwayConnection· 
c 1988 M1dway Alflmes Inc 

-
Jfpr You'll. see 

pV the sav1ngs! 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 

•Softmate Daily or Extended Wear Contact Lenses 




$39.98 
Dally Wear Powers •7.00 to -12.00 

Extended Wear Powers plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted 
2 Pairs for
Contact Lenses 
Daily or Ex:tendedWear 


$99.98
....cb a: Lomb or 
S.ftmate B 
2 Different Colors 

An eye exam is required at the time of 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Limiteo time offer. 
11111111111111 "'""'"' 1111111111111
11 ~c~ .......,.,111 
"Our eyewear prices are the lowest tn fndiana, and 

our eyecare quality Is 1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU..,~~~....~IIIIIi 
WlSwpassed. And that's a promlse from the doctor.'" B~D 

South Bond Mishawaka 1111 E Irel••d Rtl 506 W. McKinley Br~dmoor Piau lt·Mtrt/Martin Center ac:rcufrom~MIIl nu.t&x..toO.CoDru1. 
291-4000 258-5000 

Thursday, February 11, 1988 

The Observer I Rob Regovich Sophomore 118-pounder Andy Redenbaugh (top) won his match Wednesday night, but It wasn't quite enought to upset No. 13 Mic­higan. The Notre Dame wrestling team fell to 5-3 with the loss. 
Track team faces major test 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Fresh off one of its toughest meets of the season, the Notre Dame track team leaves the friendly confines of the Loftus All-Sports Complex this weekend to travel to Cedar Falls, Ia., where it will com­pete in the Central Collegiate Conference Meet. 
The upcoming meet will give the Irish much competition, with the likes of DePaul, Loyola, Illinois State, Mar­quette, the Big Ten teams (excluding Ohio State and In­diana) and the Mid-American Conference teams all par­ticipating. 
"This will be, if not the best meet of the season, as good as the IC4A Championships," said Irish coach Joe Piane. Last weekend's initial home meet, 
. while an overall success for everyone involved, resulted in injury to a few key Irish run­ners, including junior middle­distance runner David Warth. Because of his injury Piane has slightly altered his pre-meet strategy. 
You've thought about it. 
You've bied to imagine what it would be like. 
You know it would be exciting. And a challenge. And quite possibly the most rewarding experience of your life ... 
Three Americans overseas in Asia, Africa and South America speak frankly on what Peace Corps life is like for them. 
It isn't easy and it isn't for everyone-they'll tell you that up front. 
But if you've ever considered going overseas in the Peace Corps. then now is your chance to see and hear for yourself what could be '·the toughest job you'll ever love." 
rt>te: Former Peace Corps volunteers will be on hand to answer questions following the 25 minute film. And it's free! 
See Our free film, Wed., Feb. 17th at 7 p.m. 
in the Center for Social Concerns. Interviews, Wed., & Thurs., Feb. 24th & 25th at the career Placement Office. 
Interviews, at St. Mary's, Fri., Feb. 26th in the career Development Center 
U.S. Peace Corps 
The Movie 

"The Toughe~t Job You'll Ever Love" 
The Observer page 13 

'Funky call' costs wrestlers -· 
Irish just short in upset attempt despite Gerardi's win 
By CHRIS KILEY and JEFF TILTON Sports Writers 
Officiating. It can make or break a team in close matches. 
For the Notre Dame wrestlers, attempting to knock off the 13th-ranked Michigan Wolverines, it produced a heartbreaking turn of events. A fifteen-second scramble for control cost 142-pound Ron Wis­niewski five points and the match, and it just about ended the Irish hopes for an upset in their 24-16 loss Wednesday night. 
"There is no way that was five points," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "Maybe it was five points in freestyle wres­tling, but not in collegiate. It was just a funky call." 
The Wolverines sport an 8-3 mark. 
Despite the loss, there was still much to cheer about. Mark Gerardi, a 158-pound freshman from El Cajon, Cal., won 10-9 over Michigan's junior Joe Pantaleo, who was ranked second in the nation for his weight class by Amateur Wres­tling News. 
"You've got to hand it to Mark," said McCann. "That was just a tremendous win for a freshman." 
McCann is still very pleased with the teams progress. 
"Believe it or not, I think we're better," said McCann. "There were a couple of matches that we had to have. I was a little disappointed at 142 and 150. However, I still believe that our program is coming around." 

other winners for Notre Dame included 118-pound soph­omore Andy Radenbaugh, 134 pound junior co-captain Jerry Durso and 177-pound junior Chris Geneser. 
Notre Dame will face a top 20 team for the third time this week when the Irish host No. 16 Ohio State on Friday. In last year's meeting between the two teams, the Bukeyes trounced the Irish 36-6. McCann eagerly awaits this year's rematch. 
"We match up better with Ohio State than we did with Michigan," said McCann. "They're a ranked team, and they are dynamite at 190 and heavyweight. I still think we can win six matches." 
Hopefully, this match won't be close enough to call. 
"We're trying to put together a strong distance medley team to override the injuries," said Piane. 
The medley, which consists of the 800, 400, 1200, and 1600 meter events, will be composed of sophomore Mike Rogan, freshman Robert Harris, soph­omore lViike O'Connor and senior co"captain Dan Garrett. 
Other events in which Piane is looking for good things in­clude the mile relay, the long jump (led by freshman Jeff Smith) the high jump (led by John Cole) and the distance events. 


~(\~ TQUE ~TOQIE~ TONIGHT 9:00 
at THEODOQE~ 
-
page 14 

The Observer Thursday, February 11 , 1988 
·­


The 5-10 and under league needs someone to organize next year's league. If interested, call Jim Manning at 283­1459. -The Observer 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS If you're a Math, Engineering, Physics, or Chemistry major & your GPA is 3.3/4.0 (or better), the Navy would like to give you: • $1,100 a month until graduation • Paid graduate-level training A Navy Engineering representative will be on campus Febru.ory 17 & 18 Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information, toll-free: 1-800-221-5932 NAVY OFFICER. * LEAD THE ADVENTURE.  

ALUMNI SENIOR  

~ 
-

1988 Notre Dame football signees 
Arnold Ale Walter Boyd Derek Brown** Rod Culver* 
Shawn Davis* 

Pos. LB Ht. 6·4 Wt. 200 Hometown Carson, Calif. 
Bernard Mannelly
High School Carson. 

Pos. RB HI. 6-0 Wt. 195 Hometown Hillsborough, 
Devon McDonald
N.C. High School Or­ange. 
Pos. TE Ht. 6-7 Wt. 235 Hometown Merritt Island, 
Gene McGuire*
Fla. High School Merritt Island. 
Pos. RBDB Ht. 6-0 Wt. 212 Hometown Detroit, 
George Poorman
Mich. High School DePorres. 
Pos. WRDB Ht. 6·0 Wt. 170 Hometown Tulsa, 
Troy Ridgely*
Okla. High School Mclain. 
Hometown Groose Point, Mich. High School 
Marc deManigold 
Pos. DL Ht. 6-5 Wt. 232 
Martin Scruggs
Groose Pointe North. 

Pos. QB{)B Ht. 6-2 Wt. 
193 Hometown Cocoa, 
Fla. High School Cocoa. 
Chris Hall Rusty Setzer* 
Pos. OL Ht. 6-5 Wt. 290
Justin Hall 

Hometown Dallas, Texas 
Michael Smalls 
High School Plano. 

Pos. RB Ht. 5-10 Wt. 175 
Hometown Wilkes-Barre,
Raghib Ismail* Rod Smith*

Pa. High School Meyers. 
Pos. DL Ht. 6-5 Wt. 270
Mirko Jurkovic 

Hometown Calumet City, Ill. High School Thorton 
Tony Smith 
Fractional North. 

Pos. OL Ht. 6-6 Wt. 235
Lindsay Knapp* 
Hometown Deerfield, Ill. 
Kenny Spears* 
* Parade AII-Americ,an 

Yonto 
continued from page 16 
one that we have a great need for." 
Holtz said Wednesday that he hadn't made any solid deci­sions on who would replace Fazio and Yonto. 
"My first thought would be that (current Outside Linebacker Coach) Barry Al­varez would be the guy that would probably be the defen­sive coordinator and inside linebacker coach. I think Barry knows the players, coaches, system and knows what we want to do. He's an excellent teacher. That's my first thought. 
"My second is that we would revamp the defensive staff. We would move different people to a variety of different things." 
Holtz indicated that he was 

High School Deerfield. 





Sports Briefs 
Varsity and Novice crew teams will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland to plan Spring Break trip. Bring a $10 deposit for the trip. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in forming a women's rugby team please call Lauren (3560), Sarah (4039) or Kathy (4067). No experience necessary. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
not sure who wo~ld replace :•••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••• 
Yonto, but he sa1d that he : 
hoped to have the staff in place • 
by next Wednesday. : 
------------:• 

Recruits 
continued from page 16 
"The nucleus of this program in the future is going to come out of the parochial schools, Chicago, Ohio and western Pennsylvania. We have got to get back into every Catholic high school in the country. That's not a suggestion. That's an order." 
The Irish may be getting their 23rd recruit in Graylin Johnson of Port Arthur, Tex. The defensive back had ver­bally committed to Notre Dame, but did not sign Wednes­

.
•
• 
:
•: 
: 
•
•

. 
: : 

an outgoing person? • 
• ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0G~~~~~~
well organized? : ""l->,."'....,."'....,."'
.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
! Ifyou are, then the Observer ! !wants a person like YOU to be the!
•
•
•
!
•
•
: 
: 

a motivator? •
•

dedicated? :
•

experienced? : interested in Advertising? 
:•
•
•
•
: 
•
•
• 

ADVERTISING MANAGER !
•
•
. 

Applications should include a personal ! 
Pos. DL HI. 6-4 WI. 230 Hometown Marietta, Ga. High School Maris!. 
Pos. LB HI. 6·3 WI. 220 Hometown Paterson, 
N.J. High School Ken­nedy. 
Pos. OL Ht. 6-5 Wt. 265 Hometown Panama City, Fla. High School Mosley. 
Pos. QB{)B Ht. 6-2 Wt. 185 Hometown Palatine, Ill. High School Fremd. 
Pos. LB Ht. 6-4 Wt. 255 Hometown Baden, Pa. High School Ambridge Area Woods. 
Pos. DBWR Ht. 6-1 Wt. 165 Hometown Abeline, Texas High School Cooper. 
Pos. RWB Ht. 5-9 Wt. 180 Hometown Gary, Ind. High School Roosevelt. 
Pos. LB Ht. 6-3 Wt. 220 Hometown Rialto, Calif. High School Eisenhower. 
Pos. RB Ht. 6-1 Wt. 183 Hometown St. Paul Minn. High School Roseville Area. 
Pos. WR Ht. 6-2 WI. 170 Hometown Gary, Ind. High School Roosevelt. 
Pos. RB HI. 6-2 WI. 215 Hometown Atlanta, Ga. High School Woodward Academy. 
Texan stars staying home 
Associated Press 

APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR POSITIONS OF 
FOOD & SUPPLY MANAGER PROMOTION, RENTALS, & ENTERTAINMENT MANAGER 
APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE PICKED UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES, THIRD FLOOR LaFORTUNE. 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION IS 
day. : statement and a brief" resume. : 
················································u.--~~~~~~~~--------~~~--------~~~~ 

r----------------------~----~----­
Thursday, February 11, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
Thursday 
12:30 p.m.: GALA (Graduate Association for Latin America)-Kellogg Graduate Student Workshop, "School Gardening in Chile," slide show and discussion by John Kennedy, Department of :F:conomic, Room 131 Decio Hall. 4 p.m.: Resume Workshop, by Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career and Placement Services, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 4 p.m.: Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Time Resolved Diffuse Reflectance Studies on Opaque Solid Samples," by Dr. Douglas Weir, ND Radiation Labore.~ tory, Conference Theatre of the Radiation Laboratory. 7 p.m.: Lecture, "On Alzheimer's Disease," by Mark Laker, Recreational Spe­cialist, Indiana State Board of Health, Carroll Auditorium, Sponsors: SMC Nur­sing Department, Sisters of Holy Cross Management Services, REAL Services, and Indiana State Board of Health. 7:30p.m.: Basketball, NDW vs. Detroit, JACC. 
7:30 p.m.: Anthropology Lecture, by Conrad Kottak, University of Michigan, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 8 p.m.: Program of Liberal Studeis Public Lecture, "Newman's Ideal of Liberal Education," by Reverend Ian Ker, College of St. Thomas, Minnesota, Library Auditorium. 
10-11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talkshow, with ND's Student Body Presidential Candidates, WVFI-AM 640, host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. 

Dinner Menus 
49 Fictional plantation

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 50 Cup handle 53 Newspaper feature 
Tomato Soup Roast Beef 56 Dissolve 57 Male ant
Footlong Chili Dog Chicken Breasts with Rice 
58 Canary kin

Beef Stew Pilaf 
59 Cote 
residents 60 Link

BBQ Pork Loin Green Bean Casserole 
Cheese Enchiladas Deli Bar 
61 Growing out 
DOWN

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
1 Hormone 2 Hawkeye State

•·f ' I ,f­
• ;~ ''I\, . 
3 Murdered 
4 Chaney of films

/ _, \, ·. d/ '; .~... "-\:-~ .)~_,--/~ 
...... ~~ ~.~::.a...J-~-----=­
5 Contestant 

-OOfil f IMIIIII OltUMJI tm RID( WITH AM'fOftl WHO Onl \ 

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

ACROSS 1 Bridal path 6 Peel 
10 "The World According to-" 
14 Punctuation mark 15 Golf club 16 Eye part 17 Party game 
20 "Hee -" 
21 Debacle 
22 "I -tell a lie" 23 Venture 24 American Beauty 
25 Very high 
28 Calif. city 
32 Frequent 
33 Subsequently 
39 Binge 40 Carried 41 Remove dirt In a way 43 Like some pools 44 Colors 45 Treaty 46 Consented 

©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 02/11/88 All Rights Reserved 
6 Affect with resentment 7 In -(not 
progressing) 8 Caviar base 9 Settle 
10 Afr. region 11 Eng. river 12 Gambling city 13 History 18 Old times 19 Sample 23 Eat 24 Extent 25 Leading 26 In the future 27 Obese 28 Temptress 


29 To the left at 
sea 30 Not a soul 31 Totted up 33 A Roosevelt 
and others 36 Race course 37 Fall guy 39 Swings around 
Far Side 

40 Evasive 
answer word 42 Bureaus 43 Angel 
Instrument 45 San Diego pro 46 High point 47 Developed 48 Part 49 Make a 
journey 50 Poet Pound 51 Landed 52 M. Lacoste 54 Yoko ­55 Buddhist sect 
Gary Larson 




Bill Watterson 
"For crying out loud, lgorl First there's that screw-up with the wrong brain business, and now you've let his head go through the wash In your pants pocket!" 

SPONSORED BY SUB 
Friday &

Thursda~ 
8 & 10 pm Saturday 
$2.00 admission 



,-----~-­
1 
I 
' 
~ 
~ 








Sports 
Thursday, February 11, 1988

page 16 
Rivers-less Irish end slump; Singleton spearheads triumph 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN responded with 12 assists, four lack of experience. When we Sports Editor steals, four points and only five look at the tape tomorrow we turnovers in 34 minutes. can make adjustments. I knew 
Notre Dame's 64-59 victory "Of course," the New Or­we could win tonight, it was over Fordham last night was leans native laughed when jsut a matter of by how many. living proof that close only asked if he had been nervous. It was good to get the guys the counts in horseshoes and hand "I talked to David before the experience." grenades. The Rams came game. He told me to relax and The Irish and Rams were back from a 19-point deficit, but get into the flow of the game, even early, but an eight-minute in the end it didn't matter. The then start using my offensive scoring drought in the first half Irish, without David Rivers, moves and penetrating. He told left the Rams down 22-10 wwith held on to snap their three­me to just to take my time. 8: 45 left. The Irish increased game losing streak. "I'm used to playing defense, their lead to 30-19 by the half. 
"We played the game we defense, defense from high The Rams were their own wanted to play," said Fordham school. It was always defense worst enemy, shooting just 8­head coach Nick Macarchuck, first, offense second. If I con­of-19 from the floor. who saw his club slip to 12-11. centrate on more defense then The Irish opened the second "We wanted a low scoring the offensive game will come." half with a 10-2 run to put the game, one in the 60's, but we Offensively, the Irish, now Rams on the canvas, but they H had trouble scoring. We were 13-7, were lead by Joe Fredrick couldn't come up with the KO. P making too many mistakes. and Keith Robinson who tallied Notre Dame was up 56-41 with Notre Dame is just too good 14 each. 3:22 left to play when and strong inside. Eventually "We decided not to play Fordham's Mark Taylor began they're going to score points. David yesterday," said Irish to connect from three-point Without Rivers we thought we head coach Digger Phelps, who range, and the Rams began to had a good chance." added that Rivers might not turn up the pressure on the -.. 
For the Irish, playing without practice Thursday. "We could young Irish. Turnovers and Rivers, who sprained his right have played him, but it was a Taylor's shooting allowed ankle against Duke Sunday, good experience for the other Fordham to cut the lead to 60-52 
The Observer 1 John :stuoeoaKer 

was a chance for their younger guys. Singleton needed the ex­with 49 seconds left. players to step in and get some perience tonight, and he played 
But ~our free throws by ~~~ Starting in place of an Injured David Rivers, freshman Tim Singleton much-needed experience. very well. VocefmallyputtheRams 0 (10) responded with 11 assists to help Notre Dame snap Its three-
Freshman Tim Singleton filled "We had a few breakdowns 
see RAMS, page 12 game losing streak last night against Fordham. It was the New
in for the senior guard and at the end, but that was just 
Orleans native's first career start. 

Football recruiting focuses on backs, receivers 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
They slowed down just long enough to sign national letters of intent Wednesday. 
But the 1988 Notre Dame foot­ball recruits will be off and run­ning in the fall. Irish head co­ach Lou Holtz and his staff received commitments from one of the best, and certainly one of the quickest, incoming freshman classes in the nation. 
"We've got awfully good speed at the skill positions," ex­plained Holtz, who also recruited one of the top classes last year. "We put the empha­sis on the skill areas this year -running backs and wide receivers -because we don't have a lineman on our football team with less than two years of eligibility left." 
The 22 recruits, one short of Notre Dame's scholarship limit of 23 players this year, in­cludes 11 Parade All­Americans and the magazine's Player of the Year, 6-7, 235­pound tight end Derek Brown of Merritt Island, Fla. 
Five running backs among Parade's selections also signed to play for the Irish. 
Junior Mark Green, Notre Dame's leading rusher the past two seasons, will be moved to flanker for the 1988 season. Holtz made that announcement at a press conference Wednes­day afternoon. 
Green, one of the team's tri­captains, lettered as a wide receiver his freshman year. 
"They are fine athletes, win­ners and competitors, and we have needs in a lot of areas," Holtz said of the incoming run­ning backs. "Somebody might end up in the defensive second­ary, but they will all be given the opportunity to run the foot­ball." 
Raghib Ismail of Wilkes­Barre, Pa., rushed for 2,112 yards as a prep senior and runs a 4.4 40-yard dash, while Kenny Spears of Atlanta gained 2,023 yards and scored 22 touch­downs. 
The Irish also signed Detroit's Rod Culver, Walter Boyd of Hillsborough, N.C., and Rod Smith of Roseville, Minn. 
Smith was Minnesota's state long-jump champion and holds a state-best mark of 10.8 seconds in the 100-meter dash. 
"The guy that's probably the happiest is our track coach," Holtz said. 
A set of speedster cousins will bring more flash to the Notre Dame lineup. Ham­mond's Rusty Setzer runs a 4.3 40 and made Parade's list as a defensive back. Setzer was In­diana's state track champion in the 100 and 200. His cousin, receiver Tony Smith of Gary, was a member of the state­champion 400-meter relay team. 
Another receiver, who signed in the final few hours, is Tulsa's Shawn Davis. Davis is consid­ered the best receiver in Okla­homa and runs the 40 in 4.5. 

Holtz credited assistant co­ach Vinny Cerrato for recruit­ing the highly-touted Brown away from the Florida schools. 
"He (Cerrato) is one of the best," Holtz said. "We are very fortunate to have a great recruiting class on paper. The question is how much better they're going to get from here." 
The signings of top players from all over the country means few incoming freshmen from Ohio and western Penn­sylvania, usually hotbeds for Notre Dame recruiting. 
Holtz said he would like to get more commitments from players from those areas, as well as Chicago, in the future. He added that he would like to do more recruiting among the Catholic high schools as well. 
"When you recruit national­ly," he said, "it's only natural that you'll end up with some of the best players in the country. But you've also got to have the guys who just love Notre Dame -like I did growing up. 
see RECRUITS, page 14 

Field hockey situation handled incorrectly 
A ditch on the field hockey practice field sounded like a good idea to Irish head coach Jill Lindenfeld. Mter all, drainage improvements were needed on soggy Alumni Field. 
The ditch that appeared in early October did not allevi­ate water problems, however. It helped to transform a part of Alumni Field to a softball diamond. 
And just a few weeks later Lindenfeld inspected the new astroturf field in the Loftus All-Sports Complex, which her team would use for bad-weather workouts. The turf was painted with markings for football, soccer and lacrosse. But there were no field hockey lines. 
Pete 
Gegen r,~ 
Sports Writer 
,Jt;. :. 

Fazio, Yonto leave Irish staff 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN  ing. You get to be 50-51 years  first in the nation in the 1980  
Sports Editor  of age, you've been a head co­ and 1981 seasons.  
ach and you're sitting around  Yonto, who is a former Irish  
On the same day Irish head  in a hotel room. There are some  player and began coaching un­ 
coach Lou Holtz talked about  discouraging things about that  der Ara Parseghian, is return­ 
the newcomers to his squad, he  aspect. It does take a lot out of  ing to a job he held for former  
also announced that he had two  you.  Irish Athletic Director Gene  
vacancies to fill on his coaching  "He's a fine football coach,  Corrigan while Gerry Faust  
staff.  and I've had nothing but the ut­ was Notre Dame's head coach.  
Defensive Coordinator Foge  most respect for him the entire  
Fagio and Defensive Line Co­ time he's been on our staff."  "There's no one on our staff  
ach Joe Yonto have both  Under Fazio, who also  who has been more intimately  
resigned from Holtz' staff.  coached the inside linebackers,  involved with Notre Dame foot­ 
Fazio has taken a job as the  the Irish defense finished the  ball for a longer period of time  
special teams and tight ends  season ranked 17th in total  than Joe Yonto has," Holtz said  
coach for the Atlanta Falcons  defense (301.3 yards per  of Yonto's retirement from  
under Head Coach Marion  game), 13th in pass defense  coaching. "He built a well­ 
Campbell. Yonto will be a spe­ (147.1) last season and finished  deserved reputation as one of  
cial assistant to Notre Dame  the 1986 campaign ranked 19th  the top defensive minds in the  
Athletic Director Dick Rosen­ in rushing defense (119.5).  nation, and Notre Dame was  
thal.  Fazio was a head coach at  fortunate that Joe chose to stay  

"Foge flew down there yes­Pittsburgh from 1982 to 1985, with us for as long as he did. 
r 
Both of these stories are interesting, now that the Ath­terday and was interviewed," where he compiled a 25-18-3 "The position he is taking is 
i 
letic Department announced that field hockey would be Holtz said of the move. "It all record. Previously he was the one that Dick Rosenthal will
I 
dropped from varsity status next year. 
happened within the last two defensive coordinator for the have to talk more on, but it is days. He mentioned the finan­Panthers under Jackie Sherrill, 
' ~ 
see VARSITY, page 11
I 
see YONTO, page 14
cial renumeration and recruit-and Fazio's defense finished 




