Back to reality
IACCENT: A Literary Mardi Gras 
Mostly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of snow. High in the mid to upper 30s. More clouds, snow and rain in store

IVIEWPOINT: The Honor Code 




VOL. XXI, NO. 94.  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1988  
·  the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's  
L  •  


Doyle, Paese win student body election 


By ERIC M. BERGAMO Doyle carried his home dorms, including home Senior Staff Reporter residence of Grace and also residence Dillon. In Pangborntook the off-campus vote in his and Carroll, the vote was even Tom Doyle and Mike Paese total. Viz took his home dorm for both candidates. 
coasted to a convincing win in of Flanner, along with Dillon, The run-off election for stu­
Thursday's run-off elction for Howard and Sorin. dent body president became 
student body president over "We're very, very happy and necessary after Tuesday's
Steve Viz and Chris Boron, we'd like to thank everybody election failed to give a 
while Mark Chapman was who worked with us and all the majority over 50 percent to any
elected District 3 student student body for helping us and of the nine tickets. 
senator over Matt Thiel by the supporting us," Paese said. 
slim margin of 16 votes. "The greatest thing was the Doyle, with 1,041 votes, and The official results were number of people we met," he Viz, with 698 votes, were the declared at 10:11 p.m. by Om­added. top two vote-getters in Tues­budsman co-director John Wil­Chapman won 452 votes for day's election. son. 50.9 percent in his senate race Doyle said the win was "fan­Doyle won 20 out of 24 dorms, while Thiel took 436 votes for tastic." 
garnering 2,015 votes for 59.1 49.1 percent. "We're elated," Doyle said, 
percent of the total votes cast. The senate vote was "we can't thank the people who 
Viz captured 1,397 votes for 40.9 recounted three times before worked with us enough." 
OBUD with running a smooth ident Laurie Bink on April 1.
percent. being declared official, Wilson Doyle and Paese said Viz was election. The next two months Doyle
A total of 3,412 votes were said. an "exemplary" candidate and and Paese plan to organize
cast in the election, less than Chapman won four dorms in thanked him and Boron "for a Doyle and Paese will succeed their student cabinent andthe 3,711 votes counted Tues­his race, sweeping home dorm very fair race." current Student Body Presi­
day. of Fisher, and Thiel won two Paese also complimented dent Pat Cooke and Vice Pres-see DOYLE, page 4 
Caller admits to kidnapping 
Associated Press 
TYRE, Lebanon -Moslem militiamen searched rain-drenched citrus groves and val­ley caves Thursday for Lt. Col. William Hig­gins, and their leaders threatened to go after his kidnappers unless the U.S. Marine is freed soon. 
"We want Higgins back and we have no red line as far as his case is concerned,'' said Daoud Daoud of the moderate Shiite militia Amal, the dominant force around this ancient port. 
U.N. peacekeeping troops and about 1,500 Amal militiamen virtually sealed off a 300­square-mile area. 
An anonymous telephone caller said a previ­ously unknown group carried out the abduction Wednesday just south of Tyre. He claimed Hig­gins, who commands U.N. truce observers in south Lebanon, is a CIA agent. 
The abduction brings the number of foreign hostages in Lebanon to 25, including nine Americans. Most are believed held by pro­Iranian Shiite extremists, whose main Hezbol­lah militia has been challenging Amal's dominance in south Lebanon. 
An Arabic-speaking man said in the telephone call to a Western news agency in Beirut that he represented the Islamic Revolutionary Brigades, and declared: 
"William Higgins has joined the hostages. He 
see MARINE, page 6 

Democrat Babbitt, Republican Du Pont quit '88 race 
Associated Press 
Democrat Bruce Babbitt and Republican Pete du Pont fell by the presidential campaign wayside on Thursday, while Vice President George Bush said "I'm telling the truth" about GOP rival Bob Dole in his tough television commer­cials. 
With one exception, the six Democratic survivors con­verged on Texas for a two-hour debate broadcast live on public television. Republicans Bush, Dole, Jack Kemp and Pat Robertson vied for support in Nevada's caucuses, a competi­tion that drew little notice with delegate-rich primaries just around the corner. 
Babbitt made his exit grace­fully in a quip-filled Washing­ton news conference. "Look,. I'm not going to slash my throat if we don't raise taxes tomorrow," said the former Arizona governor, who had asked voters to stand up for a national sales tax to reduce the deficit. 

Babbitt, who finished fifth in Iowa's caucuses last week and sixth in New Hampshire's pri­mary on Tuesday, said the campaign was "the greatest joy of my entire public life." He praised all his former rivals but endorsed none of them, saying he would do what he could to aid the eventual win­ner of the Democratic nomina­tion. 
Du Pont, whose provocative ideas about fundamental change in Social Security and abolition of farm subsidies failed to attract much voter support, announced his withdrawal in a news confer­ence in Wilmington, Del. 
"The campaign has lowered its flag but the crusade con­tinues to march," said the former governor and congress­man. He said his ideas are right for the country and "they're coming to Am~rica sooner or later." 
Sen. Albert Gore Jr. of Ten­nessee, hoping to emerge as the Democratic front-runner after Super Tuesday, said his rivals had taken positions that were out of the mainstream, and added he was the one who could lead the Democrats to victory in 1988. 
"Dick Gephardt, for exam­ple, has changed one position after another ... Jesse Jackson hasn't had a single day of ex-
see GONE, page 4 page 2 The Observer Friday, February 19, 1988 


Internationally acclaimed novelist Josef Skvor­ecky will open the 1988 Sophomore Literary Festival this Sunday, Feb. 21, in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center concourse. Events will begin at 7 p.m. with a per­formance by the University Jazz Combo followed by Skvorecky's reading at 8 p.m. in the JACC Monogram Room. -The Observer 
A gymnastics meet featuring Notre Dame against Miami of Ohio will be held Saturday at 5 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Shenanigans will present a Junior Parents Weekend concert at 1 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. Saturday in the Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
TheHonorableJudge R.EugenePincham,Appellate Court of Illinois, will speak at the Law School Moot Court­room on Feb. 22 at noon. In his presentation, Judge Pincham will share his experiences, reflections and projections for Black America from a historical, legal and personal perspective. -The Observer 
An Tostal organizational meeting will be held Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 120 Cushing Hall. Help is needed in areas including Thursday, Friday, Saturday events, publicity, mobilization, booklets, programs and more. ­
The Observer 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Restdences for positions of Summer Hall Manager and Assistant Manager. They may be picked up in Room 311 Administration Building. The deadline for return of appli­cations is March 14. -The Observer 
Fashion Savvy, an annual fashion show, is to be held Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Century Center. Special sho~case with designer Denderah's and Brooks Brothers. Tickets are availabe in the Ticket Stub and proceeds go to charity. 
-The Observer 
Financial Aid Form deadline is Feb. 28. Any undergraduate wishing renewal of their aid or seeking a student loan for 8&89 must file an F AF. Forms are avail­able in the Financial Aid Office. -The Observer 
CILA Mexico Project members must stop by LaFortune today between noon and 5 p.~. to talk to Dan or Mike. A meeting will be held Sunday mght at 6 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The Catholic Faith Series continues in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Sister Jean Lenz will speak from 7 to 8:30 p.m. on "Scripture," Sunday, Feb. 21 and Tuesday, Feb. 23. -The Observer 
Deaign Editor .................... Joe Zadrozny Accent CoPll l!;dilor ........... Matt Murphy Deaill" A.,i&tant ............... Michelle Dall Accent La11ou1.. ............... Heather Hynes T1fpeaettera ............... Becky Gundennan 
.............. : ....................... Mark ~dgew~y ~~~~-~:::::::::::::::::~::·K.~~;;u:=:;; Newa Ed1tor ....................... Regis Cocclll ND Da11 Editor .................. Janet Herold Copl/ Editor ......................... Greg Lucas Photographer ................... Rob Regovicb Sparta CQPII Editor.......... Marty Strasen Special La11out ........... Mark McLaugblln Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Patrick Zande Computer Graphic•.... ......... Geoff Sauer 
'he 0111enw (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday tbrouah Friday except duriq exam 8lld vacatioo periods. n.OIIIB'Yer is published by lbc students or the University or Notre Du1e 8lld Saint Mary's Collqe. Sublaiptioas may be purchu­ed for S40 per ycu (US per semester) by writina n.Olllener, P .0. Box Q, Notre o.me, ladiana 46556. 
n.o..r.. is a IIICIIIbcr or n. Alloda..,. rn.. All reproduction riahts are raerved. 



Liberal education goals need consideration 
Education has been a hot topic of late both within academia and in the presidential cam­paigns. Many ideas are being put forth to im­Jim prove the nation's educational system, includ­ing such things as a much needed increase in Carroll funding, improvement in the quality of teach­ing, and a restructuring curriculum. Photo Editor 
It is the last of these suggestions that is the r=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
most controversial. Many critics condemn 
public education for its failure to instill morals in the younger generation. The charge is that teaching has become prone to relativism and that this is somehow the ruin of the nation's future. Further complaints indict public schools and universities for being too concerned with careerism and narrow specialization. 
What is called for is the return of a truly liberal education with a strong moral backing. Under most plans a broad, inter-disciplinary curriculum would be the basis for such a pro­gram. These would provide the student with a wide, coherent view of the human situation free from the wishy-washy relativism of the current specialized training in place today. · 
The presumption behind such an education often is that the student will come to know the True and the Beautiful within a complete circle of knowledge. And it is precisely this sort of presumption that forms the mystique of liberal education. 


In my eight semesters here at Notre Dame I Often there is a hostility between the different 
have taken a wide assortment of courses in a branches of learning as they compete for the variety of disciplines. I have even chosen a best students, more faculty, and increased fun­major in liberal studies. And although the ding. The competition however, is not the sort 
quality of teaching and the quality of materials in which there is understanding and respecthere on campus are among the best available between opponents. Quite possibly there will anywhere for any price, I am unconvinced that not even be dialogue between conflicting sides. 
a liberal education either could or should pro­For instance, while operating under com­vide the coherent and consistent sort of knowl­pletely different assumptions about the essence edge that many of these critics esteem. of man, a neurobiologist might approach the 
If liberal education does not provide the neat phenomenon of suicide completely unaware and sort of answers and firm moral backings in a uninterested in what a theologian or philoso­place like Notre Dame, then these outdated pher might have to say about the matter. goals should be dropped and liberal education Presumably a liberal education could consider taken for the advantages it really offers. all sides of such questions. 
The mystique of liberal education presup­In doing so there is the possibility that nothing poses that taking courses in different depart­is resolved or that the conclusions will be rel­
ments of the University is not only possible but ative. Both sides of such a question have strong somehow coherent and consistent. Everything cases to make. Regardless of how other fields 
learned would make one's picture of the world of knowledge might oppose them, each branch ever more clear and complete. of learning continues to prosper in its own di­
Unfortunately, the University, in its rection. academics, is not the happy sort of family that This fractured and fragmented structure of this mystique supposes, at least insofar as I university academics is not necessarily a bad 
have experienced and understood it. There is a thing. In fact, it might be one of the strengths 
wide disparity between the colleges and often that make a modern university stimulating and even within single departments both in terms productive.of what counts as learning and how further re­In such a place, liberal education, to the ex­
search should be conducted. This contributes tent that it is possible, provides a wide sampling anything but a unified view of what is true, of different views rather than a consistent pack­
what is moral, or even what is important. 

Get Involved in the 


World ofAdvertising 
NOW 
Create &Promote multi-thousand dollar advertising campaigns 
We need volunteers In the following areu: 
copy writing ad design muketing promotional concepts 

Ezperlencecl and non-aperiencecl positions available 
Pick up appllcatlolll at the Secretarr• desk 2nd!toorLaFortune AppUaJtlons endue l1wrscfau, February 25th 

Cold facts 
Old Man Winter once in a while relent& in his treatment of the campus. Sophomore Pete Morgan, left, and freshman Jim Peredo, see·n here on the Fieldhouse 
, ............................................
•
• 
..
•

Do you like pizza? • Come get your fill 
at Theodore's on Sunday 
only $3.00 buys as much PIZZA as you can eat. 
Open 12-6 pm 
-Sponsored by the Student Ucion Board Cultural Arts Commission. 

The Observer I Rob Regovich 

mall, think the unusually pleasant weather merits a 
closer study. 
(~""'] .. ····· 

~~ ~11. ~ (c,···~.~.···Q·...·.,.•r.··"'.2.enantaans 
~ Q,.J""!\ D . hl ~ presents ~ A JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
~ ~ CONCERT ~ ~ Two shows! 
~ 1 :00 and 2:30 PM Saturday ~ February 20, 1988 ~ 
Theodore Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
page 3 

Class candidates get campaign rules 
By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
A mandatory meeting of all who wish to declare candidacy for class offices and off­campus commissioner will be held Tuesday, Feb. 23. Candi­dates for all positions are re­quired to obtain signatures on official petition forms to be dis­tributed at the meeting. 
According to the official campaign rules, candidates for class offices must have 100 signatures for placement on the ballot, while candidates for off-campus commissioner need 75 signatures. The petitions must be turned into the student 
government office by Feb. 26. The rules governing the elec­
tion proc~ss were distributed to the ca~dtdates at a brief in­formational meeting 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21  7:00pm Jazz Combo Performance  
J.A.C.C. Concourse  
8:00pm Josef Skvorecky reading  
J.A.C.C. Concourse  
Reception following in Monogram Roan  
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22  l2:00pm Conversation with Josef Skvorecky  
Library Lounge  
8:00pm Marilyn Krysl reading  
Library Auditorium  
Reception following in Library Lounge  
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23  l2:00pm Conversation with Marilyn Krysl and  
Etheridge Knight,  
Library Lounge  
8:00pm Peter Michaelson and Etheridge Knight  
reading,  
Library Auditorium  
Reception following in Library Lounge  

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24 12:00pm Conversation with Peter Michaelson 
Library Lounge 
8:00pm John Engels reading 
Library Auditorium 
Reception following in Library Lounge 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25 l2:00pm Conversation with John Engels 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27 l2:00pm Conversation with Paule Marshall Library Lounge 
Library Lounge 8:00pm Don Hendrie, Jr. reading 
Library Auditorium 
Reception following in Library Lounge 
8:00am Breakfast with Don Hendrie, Jr. 
South Dining Hall 8:00pm Paule Marshall reading 
Library Auditorium 
Reception following in Library Lounge Thursday.John Wilson and Jim Grace, co-directors of the Om­budsman Election Committee, stressed that candidates cam­paigning for the March 8 elec­tion may do so only between March 1 and March 7. 
"One of the problems that we had in the last election was (the candidates) being over­exuberant about telling their friends that they were run­ning," said Grace. 
"Once  (a  candidate)  
declares  an  organizational  
meeting  and  has  people  

working under him," said Wil­son, "He's responsible for the actions of those people." 
There will be a $75 campaign limit for all tickets, which con­sist of a president, vice presi­dent, secretary, and treasurer. Any tickets exceeding this limit will be penalized. 
Any Notre Dame full-time undergraduate student in good academic standing may run for office. A thorough overview of all of the election rules will take place at Tuesday's meeting . 

LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a lifesov1ng Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 

University of Notre Dame 

ALL EVENTS ARE FREE OF CHARGE AND EVERYONE IS WELCOME 
,. 


Friday, February 19, 1988
page 4 The Observer 

Doyle 
continued from page 1 
"work closely" with Cooke and Bink. 
"There's a lot of things we set out to do... a lot of good things, good things for Notre Dame students, so we can get around to doing them," Doyle said. 
Viz congratulated Doyle on his win after the announce­ment. 
"I just want to wish Tom and Mike all the congratulations in the world. It was a good race... I wish them all the luck in the world next year," Viz noted. 
Chapman said he was 


Gone 
continued from page 1 
perience in government. ~ike Dukakis hasn't had a smgle day's experience in foreign policy. We're going to lay it on the line in this campaign, and the next 19 days are going to be very interesting," he said. 
Dukakis, who won the New Hampshire primary on Tues­day and is aiming for a victory next week in Minnesota, threw his support behind union paper­workers on strike in Maine. 
"I'm not here to make a cam­paign speech," he said after he signed a proclamation support­ing the United Paperworkers International Union. "But I wouldn't object to any sup­port," he told t~~ . dozen strikers who were v1s1tmg the Massachusetts statehouse in Boston. 
Illinois Sen. Paul Simon was 

the lone Democrat to skip the 
Texas debate. :aut he hedged 
on his earlier decision to quit 
the race if he couldn't win 
either the South Dakota pri­
mary or Minnesota caucuses 
next week. 
On Wednesday, Simon said he'd quit next week if he couldn't come in first in one of 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER SESSIONS 1988 
Programs at Georgeto'im 
0 Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 0 Approaches to Teaching Writing 0 Public Affairs Internships 0 High School Programs 0 Intercultural Training 0 Interpretation and Tran~larion Institute 0 Language Courses 0 Theolog)' Conference 0 Lnerary Criticism Conference 0 Parish Workshop 0 Institute for HS Teachers 0 Sacred Scripture Institute 0 Alumni College 0 English as a Foreign Language 
Stssions 
Pre-!\lay 23-]une 17 First-june 6-july 8 8-Week Cross Session-june 6-july 29 6-Week Cross Session-june 20-july 29 Second--july 11-August 12 
StoJ _.i•/IJI"NNiM: 

Name-----------------------------------------­Address --------------------------------------­--------------------------------Zip•---------­
Programs abroad 
0 Antwerp, Be ium-lnt'L Trade 0 China-Chint 'Language and Culture 0 Tours, France-· .anguage and Culture 0 Fi"'ole, Italy -lt. 'an 0 Florence, Italy-R. 1aissance Culture 0 Greece-Humanitie. 0 Leningrad, l'.S.S.R-'lussian 0 Oxford, England-CAJn 1arati•·e 
Business (undergraduate 0 Oxford, England-Intern. ·ional 
!\olanagement (graduate) 0 Quito. Ecuador-Spanish 0 Trier, West Germany-Gen. an 0 Dublin, Ireland-Irish Literal re 
GttNJtloa Uoivmity ir •• tf/1111/oppqrll •ii"J/ IJ//in1141ivt 1Kii011 ifiStitullotl ;, tmjJ/oymnt. ·a'llli aJmissi(Jfi.J. 
Call (202) 687-6224 or mail to: SSCE-( ieorgetown l 'niversity .>06 Intercultural Center Washington, D.C. 2005 7 

Tom Doyle 

"pleased" with his close win. 
"Matt (Thiel) did a great job, he ran a very tough campaign. It was too close for comfort," Chapman said, adding, "I'm 
those two states, but he and aides said he was raising enough money to stay the course at least through the 20 Super Tuesday primary and caucus contests on March 8. 
Gephardt, who is bidding for a victory in South Dakota to go with the one he earned in Iowa on Feb. 8, picked up the en­dorsement of former Gov. Har­vey Wollman and toured a senior citizens center. 
Gary Hart flew home to Den­ver after poor finishes in Iowa 


ST. JUDE 

0 Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracles, near Kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful int('rcessor of all who invoke your special patronage in the time of need, to you I have recourse from the death of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such greaLpower, to come to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to he invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glodas, For nine consecutive days. Publication must be promised. St. Jude pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. This Novena has never been known to fail, I have had my request granted. 
Lawmakers under hypnosis not just blowing smoke 
, I
looking foward to next year." 
Chapman said he plans to talk to former senator Mike Carrigan for advice for next year. 
and New Hampshire. He said his campaign is "not for ego and ambition,'' but for a cause, and vowed it would continue. 
Bush had his new down-hume campaign style on display in Missouri, where he visited the Tin Lizzie truck stop restau­rant. The vice president also stressd his service with a popular President Reagan, saying, "many things have im-. proved since the president and I took office." 
25¢ 

Coupon for one FREE Ride on the Buzz Bus. Friday and Saturday Nights 12-3 am 
Schedule  
Senior Club  F1ve ::Jomt~ (Goodw•lli  Sl.louis  N.D. -~por1menls  MOin Circle  s~.1c Hul'i.QQ'c  Library Circle  Campus V1ew' Turtle C:eek (lvl & Voness)  
12:00  12:03  12 07  12:10  12:14  12.18  12:22  1225  
12:30  12:33  12·37  12:1'0  12:44  12:48  12:52  12 55  
1:00  1:03  1:07  1:10  1:1·1  1:18  1:22  1:25  
1:30  1:33  1:37  1:40  1:44  u8  1:52  1:55  
2:00  2 03  2:07  2.10  2:14  2:18  2:22  2'25  
2:30  2.33  2:37  2:40  2:44  2 ~a  ;"':-.r:,  

The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
For further information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 
2.52 
25¢ 

smoking program Thursday brought to the Legislative Plaza by Rep. Tommy Burnett, D-Jamestown. The program was led by Harry Miles, direc­tor of Midwest Counseling Inc. of Columbus, Ind. 
Burnett was hypnotized about 16 weeks ago in the pro­gram and said he hasn't had a cigarette or chewed tobaccc since.
Mike Paese 

Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The smoke-filled rooms of political lore may fade around the Capitol, or at least become a little less prevalent, now that a group of lawmakers has under­gone hypnosis to kick the ciga­rette habit. 
About 15 or 20 legislators 
spent $25 ellch to attend an anti­

Friday, February 19, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
(40MB Hard Disk) our price only: suggested retail price: 

Model 80 $6499 $3499 
(80MB Hard Disk) our price only: suggested retail price: 

Flight of fancy 
The Notre Dame campus takes on an ethereal quality night lights of western Michiana fade into the horizon. at night viewed from towering Flanner Hall, as the 




The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 

ASSISTANT VIEWPOINT EDITORS 
COPY EDITORS 

Brief resume and personal statement due Monday by 5 PM in the Observer Office 
Questions may be addressed to 
Matt Slaughter 283-3489 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-386 packs the speed of a supermini in a desktop PC. It provides operations and text display up to 500~ faster than competing.PC's. Enjoy the superior advantages of new performance standards for: faster processor, more memory, high resolution video, and greater expandability with the Z-386. And added to all this are a few important 
extras ... 

Like service and support. As an authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we can help you configure your new system, give you a full demonstration, and match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met. 
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 


$4099
$7499 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center 
x7684 or Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 7i•nw 1 data 
~ systems 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 

t'" 19~7. Zeruth D~ta Systems 
New Reagan 'small' budget $1.1 trillion 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan proposed Thursday his smallest Pentagon increase but sharply higher spending for AIDS research and airline safety in a $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget that was largely pre-ordained in a deal with Congress. 
''This budget does not fully reflect my priorities,'' the pres­ident said in his message ac­companying the last spending plan he'll see through to com­pletion. "But . . . abandoning the deficit reduction compro­mise would threaten our eco­nomic progress and burden fu­ture generations." 
The spending plan only hints of the "Reagan revolution" years as it strives to comply with the administration's agreement with congressional 
l{:?<<<:rr· 20th::~ :}~:{~{:~:{~11 

•::::::::::::cl RTHDA 



+.o\'•c*hr1s ·* * 
*McCarthy Late*_. .. * Bev, 'Rogetf'-casey & your girlfriend Sand it 

leaders last November to reduce the federal deficit. 
The agreement set overall spending limits for domestic, military and foreign aid spend­ing. Reagan has already signed the tax increase required under the agreement, adding $14 bil­lion to the Treasury's receipts for next year. 
The president's plan envi­sions overall spending of $1.094 trillion, offset by $965 billion in receipts. That would leave a deficit of about $129.5 billion in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, within the guidelines of the Gramm-Rudman budget­balancing law and down from $150.4 billion last year and an estimated $146 billion this year. 
Because .of the agreement with congressional leaders, Reagan was forced for the first time to submit a military budget that would not keep pace with inflation. 
Restrained to $294 billion in outlays, up from $285.4 billion this year, the president pro­posed reducing the nation's active-duty forces and aban­doning the goal of a 600-ship Navy. 
The administration predicts that if its budget is adopted deficits would continue to retreat from the record levels earlier in Reagan's term. When Reagan took office in 1981, the annual deficit was $78 billion, and he promised to bring the budget into balance within three years. Instead annual deficits nearly tripled by fiscal 1986. 
Friday, February 19, 1988
page 6 The Observer, 
Daoud is military com­mander of Amal, the Shiite militia led by Justice Minister 
Marine
Security Beat continued from page 1 
N abih Berri. He said in South 
Wednesday, 
February 17 
2 p.m.-Two residents of Howard Hall reported the theft of two pairs of shoes and $15 cash from their room sometime between Feb. 5 and Feb. 8. Their loss is estimated at $72. 
2:30 p.m.-A resident of Grace Hall reported the theft of his ski jacket from his room sometime between 7 and II 
p.m. on Feb. 16. His loss is estimated at $150. 
5:03 p.m.-A Breen Phillips resident 

Hundreds evacuate as pipeline leaks toxins 
Associated Press 
FREMONT, Ohio-Hundreds of people around this northwes­tern Ohio city were evacuated Thursday as a toxic chemical that leaked from a oil company pipeline snaked its way through the Sandusky River toward Lake Erie. 
At least three people were treated for injuries after an es­timated 100,000 gallons of toluene, an octane enhancer, spilled Wednesday from the Sun Co. pipeline south of there. 
Five hundred people, includ­ing 300 residents of Old Fort, a town 10 miles to the south, were evacuated late Wednesday and early Thursday because of the fumes, and Sandusky County Sheriff Dave Gangwer said up to 5,000 people could be evacuated along Fremont's riverfront. 
"It could get worse," Gangwer said. "It depends on how slow it moves, and it's slowing down rapidly." 
Officials estimated a 14-mile section of the river was con­taminated; the river was flowing at about 1 mph. 
The spill killed scores of fish in Sugar Creek and the San­dusky River and could affect waterfowl migrating into the area, said Mike Taylor, a wildlife officer for the Ohio De­partment of Natural Re­sources. 
Gov. Richard Celeste declared a state of emergency for Sandusky County, which in­cludes Fremont. The declara­tion makes state assistance available. 
Meanwhile, the Ohio Envi­ronmental Protection Agency told officials in Fremont to stop drawing water from the San­dusky River because part of the chemical had flowed into the river near Tiffin, nearly 20 miles upstream. 
Gary Rathfelder, assistant superintendent of Fremont's water plant, said about 4 mil­lion gallons, one day's normal supply of water, was in reserve tanks and the city would close its water intake valves as the spill arrived. 
Toluene is a flammable chemical that can produce ir­ritating or poisonous gases, ac­cording to an emergency response guidebook published by the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
Sonya Elam, a spokeswoman for the Ohio Disaster Services Agency, said the chemical spilled in a swampy area in Seneca County, south of Fremont, population 22,000. 
reported losing her wal!et and contents in the vicinity of Riley Hall of Art Design or South Dining Hall sometime between late afternoon on Feb. 14 and the morning of Feb. 15. 
6 p.m.-A Notre Dame employee reported that the convertible top of his car had been slashed a[\d a suitbag and clothing items had been taken. This occurred sometime between noon and 
4:30 p.m. in the B2 lot. His loss is in excess of $250. 
7:03 p.m.-A resident of University Village reported that his car had been broken into sometime between 10 a.m. and 5:45 p.m. in the B2 lot. HiG loss is estimatPd at $40. 
9:52 p.m.-A South Bend resident was issued a citation for excessive speed on Juniper Road. 
Thursday, February 18 
I:28 a.m.-A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of her gold watch from the fourth floor restroom around 
12:30 p.m. on Feb. 17: 
9:00 a.m.-A Notre Dame empioyee reported the theft of $3 in change from her unlocked vehicle in the B2 lot sometime between 8:30 a.m. and 5 
p.m. on Feb. 17. 

. e--­
satntMary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS ABROAD 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30 pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 for Building Improvement Fund) 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS, WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: 284-9190 
will only come out after he is tried on grounds that he is one of the directors of the CIA in south Lebanon. Higgins is now out of Beirut after he was brought out from the south." 
Before hanging up, he said a statement and photograph of Higgins would be released soon. There was no way to aut­henticate the claim. 
Higgins, a 43-year-old native of Danville, Ky., heads the 76­member observer group at­tached to the U.N. interim force in Lebanon, the peacekeeping force in South Lebanon known as UNIFIL. Of­ficers under his command rep­resent 16 nations. 
Lebanon: "we're capable of confronting the people who've carried out the abduction if need be, but I hope a quick, happy ending will be accom­plished." 
He and senior aides told reporters they believed Hig­gins and the captors still were in an area southeast of Tyre, which is 50 miles south of Beirut. 
Timur Goksel, spokesman for UNIFIL, agreed. "We do not have any reason to believe that he is out of the South," Goksel said at headquarters in Naqoura, just north of the Is­raeli border. 
Large resort in Glacier National Park, MT is seeking student employees for the 1988 summer season: Waiters-Waitresses, desk clerks, cooks, salespeople, cocktail servers, office, service station and main­tenance personnel. Monthly salary including room and board. A representative will be interviewing February 22 and 23 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Career and Placement Service office. Please sign up for an appointment. 

CLASS OFFICE AND OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER ELECTIONS 
FOR TIIOSE INTERESTED IN DECLARING TIIE!R TICKET CANDIDACY !'OR 11ffi OFF!CES OFTiiE C! ASSES OF '89 '90 ANI)'9! JJJESE DATES ARE OF GREAT IMPORTANCE· 
Informational Meeting for Prospective Candidales: lHURSDAY. February 18 
6:00 pm Noue Dame Room. 2nd floor LaForrune 
MANDATORY Meeting foe Declared Candidates: 
1UESDAY, February 23 

6:00 pm Noue Dame Room, 2nd floor LaForrune 
Petitions Required for Candidacy Due: FRIDAy, Femlary 26 
12:00 noon in the Student Government Offices, 2nd floor Lafortune 
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS: CAMPAIGNING ENDS: 
JEJLJEC7l1ION DA"tl: 
Runoff Campaigning (ifnecessary) Runoff Election (If necessary) 
nJESDAY, March 1 
MONDAY, March 7 umidnight 
nJESDAY, March 8 
Wednesday, March 9 Thursday, March 10 

Applications for Theodore's Student 
Managers for the 1988-89 
school year are now available in the Office of Student Activities. They must be turned in by 
Monday, feb. 29 
I I 

Friday, February 19, 1988 
Freshman housing 
Photographer Jill Fuglister, left, takes a picture near Nieuwland Science Hall of four freshman running for 

Great copies. Great peop!e. 


Copies sc 
"'"'"'"' fin~ 100 C<J1>I'S lrom 
,.,. ~nal. oil< ~ miWI 
I'RK1. u.... nml <Opi<S. you nml Kinlu>• 
m~nrm"'~2l 
SOOTU lEND. IN 06637 
Telephone 271-0398 
YOUR CAMPAIGN HEADQUATERS 
l••••••li-iiii"il'li'·ii'..,..il'oi'"•,.ii'llii'....ii'i'"•'iii"'lli.....i-ii"i."•••••• of Mrs. Matson's son, a 1942
Notre Dame alumnus who died two after 

GOTO 





MEDICAL SCHOOL 
Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and fees paid in full-plus earn more than $600 a month while you attend school. 
Clip and mail the coupon below. and we'll send you full details on the Armed 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. 
We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the 
Army, Navy or Air Force. . 
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gam 
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as 
a commis:;ioned officer in the Reserves. 
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected 
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits •••••••••••• • ••• ••••• and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical I YES' Sendmelulldeta•lsonhowlheArmedForcesHealthProlesSionsScholarshipProgram 1
•can help cut my medrcal school expenses. Imeellhe age requ11emcnts noted below. 1teC hnO I0gy. ·I I understand I am under no obligation. 
Ma1l thts coupon ro: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865 I
I Huntington Stat1on. NY 11746·2102 9012 
I

1 Check up to three. 0 Army ·0 Navy 0 Air Force 121-U ,..,. ol •••I 111-ll run ot agel 119-JS run of •e•l _I Pluu pnnl all mlormiltOn clearly and complelelyIf you meet the age requirements noted befow for the Service of your 
I Name·__,.,::-------..:-::~=-------.:::;---I I Male D Fe malo

cho1ce-and want to cut the expense of medical school -send for more information today. 
You can donate twice a week. We pay $8.00 for the first donation and $10.00 for a second donation in the same calendar week. New donors or donors who haven't donated in the past 30 days BRING IN THIS COUPON and receive a $4.00 bonus following your initial donation. That's a total of $24.00 you can earn in y Jur spare time your first week of donating. 
The Observer 
. "~ 
The Observer I Rob Regovich 

Sophomore class office. The freshmen here seem to really dig being candidates. 
NO Law dean gets endowment 
Special to the Observer 
The deanship of the Notre Dame Law School has been en-· dowed with a gift from the es­tate of Sylvia Matson of Bolivar, N.Y. 
The benefactress, who was 99 at the time of her death in Au­gust 1985, was the widow of Al­bert Matson, a Bolivar attor­ney with business interests in oil and gas. The Joseph A. Mat­son Chair is named in memory 
ftnt Mtddltlhllt•l lui 
I
I Address Apt. II 
I C•ty S1a1e Zip I I I I I I : I Phone o::::IJ o::::IJ I I Soc. Sec. No. o::::IJ CD I I I I I I
I 
A•••Code Numbt• 
College B•rth Date CIJ CIJ CD I 
I Field of Study Gradua!lonM~Jte rn rn I 
0I The tnlorm•llon you volunlardy provtdo w•ll be u~ed purposn only The mu•e COIT1J.IIe: •1•'· lhtYt,. 
I 
YOU CAN EARN $12 


WITHOUT LIFTING AN ARM 
American Plasma 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, Ind. 46601 

page 7 


Supreme Court gets Kennedy, fills bench 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Anthony McLeod Kennedy took his place Thursday as the 104th Su­preme Court justice in U.S. his­tory, restoring the court to full strength for the first time in eight months and inheriting a pivotal vote on key issues. 
"I do solemnly swear that I will administer justice without respect to persons and do equal right to the poor and to the rich," Kennedy, 51, said in a brief courtroom ceremony wit­nessed by some 450 invited guests. 
He then took his seat at one 
an Air Force training flight ac­cident. 
The chair's first occupant will be David Link, who has headed the Law School since 1975. The Law School joins the colleges of Arts and Letters and of Engineering in having its deanship endowed. 
"Professor Link has contrib­uted in countless ways not only to the University but also to the local CQmmunity and the legal profession nationally," said Provost Timothy O'Meara, who made the announcement. 
"He has been a man 
with his time · end of the high court bench reserved for the Supreme Court's newest member. 
Mter a private reception hosted by the court, Kennedy went to the White House to a take a second oath of office in the presence of President Reagan. 
"Justice Kennedy has shown a consistence and a courageous dedication to preserving ours as a government of laws, and that's why I nominated him," the president said. 
"He won the respect of his colleagues and of the entire le­gal community," Reagan said. 
with a gift for working with others. Under his leadership the Law School has undergone two major expansions on campus and firm foundation has been put under the school's unique program in London," O'Meara said. 
"The quality of the law fac­ulty and the resources for re­search have been significantly strengthened during his ten­ure, and the Notre Dame com­munity as a whole is the better for his service," O'Meara added. 
A specialist in law and tech­nology, Link received a B.S. in commerce degree from Notre Dame in 1958 and a J.D. from the University's Law School in 1961. During five years as a trial supervising attorney in the U.S. Treasury Department, he earned the "Young Federal Lawyer" Award from the Federal Bar Association and the Secretary of the Treasury's Award for meritorious service. 
Mter government service Link joined the Chicago law firm of Winston, Strawn, Smith and Patterson where he prac­ticed as a partner specializing in corporate tax law and inter­national business transactions. Link joined the Notre Dame law faculty in 1970. He is an expert in computers and law and in the economics of law practice and the co-author of three major volumes in taxa­tion. He is currently teaching and doing scholarship in the field of ethics of the legal profession. 
Link has served as chairman of the American Bar Associa­tion's (ABA) standing Commit­tee on Law and Technology, chairman of the ABA's President's Committee on Quality Legal Services and chairman of the ABA Section on Law Office Economics and 

f 



Viewpoint
r 
page 8 Friday, February 19, 1988 
Why the Honor Code can be successful 
Objections to the Honor Code have included the following: 
It requires "squealing" on friends; it is reminiscent of a police state, in which citizens are required to turn in other citizens; it places an unfair burden on students who are reluctant to judge others; it makes failure to report an offense as serious as cheating; it may change Notre Dame's atmosphere of mutual support. 
These objections have two themes: life at Notre Dame under the Honor Code will not emulate adult life in our society, and the Code will harm the spe­cial Notre Dame atmosphere. I dis­agree on both counts. 
Jeremy Lane 
guest column 

The Honor System is closely analogous to professional life in America. In my own profession, law, practitioners are required to be respon­sible not only for their own behavior but for that of their colleagues. When I was admitted to practice, I took an oath to uphold the Code of Professional Responsibility. That code obligates me to inform the Professional Responsibil­ity Board if I become aware that a col­legue has done something which raises serious questions about his or her fit­ness to practice law. I am subject to discipline if I fail to do so. 
I have had to fulfill that obligation three times in twenty years. One of them probably cost me a friendship. It was no fun, but it involved a serious violation which was not inadvertant. 
On the other hand, I have been aware of many situations in which minor, probably inadvertant, violations of the Code may have occurred. In those cases I have discussed the situation with the attorney involved to ensure that there would be no repetition. But in the serious cases, it was not for me to be the judge. Had I decided not to report the matters to the Board, I would have usurped its function. To remain silent is to be a judge; whereas, to report an apparent serious violation is to permit those charged with the duty of judging guilt or innocence to do their job. It is also their duty to punish, or forgive, the offender. I may forgive one who offends only me; it is not my place to bestow that forgiveness on behalf of the entire community against whom an offense is committed. Similarly, a stu­dent witnessing cheating has not been given the right to absolve the offender on behalf of the entire University com­munity. 
The medical profession places a similar duty on its members. Recently three doctors were disciplined, one for chemical abuse, and the other two, his associates, for doing nothing despite knowledge of the abuse. There are good reasons for this mandatory peer­enforcement: the authorities are inade­quate, standing alone, to protect the in­tegrity of the system. Also, potential 
Doonesbury 
!PRINCE~$  
SOUTHeRN 57RATE6Y  
5CCMW A GOOD  
•  I'M ONE OF Y:4/..L. "'-..  IIJ()NNO, PRINCE... /THANKS  
ANYWAY...  
/  

victims are often the least likely to be aware of wrongdoing. If a surgeon operates while drunk, the patient under anaesthesia, who may die as a result, will not know it. Only the doctor and his colleagues will. That's why it is not enough for us as professionals to be honest and competent. We have a duty to our profession, and to the people it serves, to make sure that the profession can be trusted. 
Friendship is an important value. But what are its responsibilities, and is it the highest value? I question the as­sumption that it is an act of friendship to watch your friend cheat and do noth­ing. Cheating is not a victimless crime. Anyonewhohasbeengradedonacurve can figure out the impact of one or two students cheating on a final. A student whose honest 75 percent should have been a 4.0 winds up with a 3.0. That could affect a competition for academic 
honors, a fellowship, or a slot in medi­cal school. Far-fetched? Maybe a little, but I think it makes the point. There­fore, when you let a friend cheat, what you're doing is letting one of your friends hurt himself, you, and your other friends. 
The offender may also be a victim, in a way. A person may cheat out of momentary weakness. If there are no adverse consequences, he or she may be more tempted to do it again. And again. And may keep doing it, to be caught someday when the conse­quences are much greater, such as loss of a professional license. Or maybe the cheater will never get caught and will go on cheating other people throughout life. 
On the other hand, suppose the first time he cheats he gets an anonymous note telling him that he was seen and that if it happens again he will be turned in. The cheater, if his standards are what they should be, will be severely embarrassed and will be far less likely, due to a combination of fear and desire for the respect of his peers, to cheat again. Incidentally, fear of punishment as an inducement to good behavior is not unique to the Honor Code; it is a feature of our faith. And honorable habits, even if formed with the help of imperfect motivation, can still see us through times of trial. · 
Though we cannot know, in any case, the consequences of not holding some­one accountable, they can be tragic. Leadership requires a combination of integrity and guts. Personal honesty without the courage to hold others to their commitment to the same standard has often resulted in catastrophe. A few examples: 
During the development stage of the infamous Dalkon Shield IUD, scientists knew it had a tendency to "wick" bac­teria, a tendency which later killed or maimed thousands of women. Those scientists did their jobs in that they re­ported the defect to their superiors. But they were ignored or intimidated, prob­ably out of fear for their jobs, into keeping silent while the information was buried by profit-hungry execu­

5111?/?eNL-Y, IN THE WINGS, Gl30R{j/A '3ENIJ:TDR 5AM NUNN 
QJ;Af<&[) HIS THROAT. 
tives. Suppose one on them had gone public, or even threatened to go public? How many women would be alive, or able to have children? 
Engineers at Morton Thiokol con­cluded that the 0-ring seals were 1ikely to fail in a low-temerature launch. They faught a good fight internally to prevent a launch; for a time they prevailed. But NASA pushed, and the higher-ups caved in. The engineers had "done their job." But suppose they had recognized that their loyalty lay not only to their friends, or even to their employer, but also ultimately to the astronauts? Had just one of them gone publi<:, or threatened to, he or she might have been fired, but seven lives would have been saved. 
History hints at other examples: the early plans for the Titanic called for more lifeboats than the ship finally carried. 
Integrity and guts can make a differ­ence. During the Iran-Contra mess, a high offical was prepared to commit perjury before Congress, but backed down when an assistant threatened to blow the whistle. 
The fight will never end. Even today, people are losing their jobs in the fight for safety in the space shuttle program. We have to have people like them who are willing to fight for what is right and to demand it from their friends and col­legues. Notre Dame should be a train­ing ground for such people. The Honor Code can help. That it won't always succeed is no reason to scrap it any more than sin is a reason to scrap the Ten Commandments. 
That doesn't mean the proposed Honor System is perfect. It shouldn't equate the cheater with the honest but silent witness. I believe, however, that this is a solvable problem. I believe that the concept is sound: Notre Dame should be a place where young women and men are trained not only to have personal integrity but also to expect their friends and collegues to have it. 
A student witnessing a violation could respond in one of several ways: make a formal report; talk to the offender privately; send the offender an anonymous note; in a serious case, of­fer the offender an opportunity to self­
Garry Trudeau 
HIS (JNlJER5TVCJY FRDZE IN /-IORROR. 
RELAX. J£5' a&AR!N'MAH 
7HRDAT. 
............___ 
is not sure he or she witnessed a viola­tion has no duty to take any action. Be­cause of the supportive atmosphere at Notre Dame, students are very unlikely to intervene unless there is an unam­biguous violation. The person who sneezes during a test won't have to wor­ry. The person who has crib notes will. 
We've seen all the TV ads which say, "Friends don't let friends drive drunk." It's true, because drunk drivers hurt themselves and others. I believe that friends don't let friends cheat, for the same reason. 
If, after being warned, a "friend" continues to cheat, it is fair to question the genuineness of the friendship ; the cheater at that point knows he or she is putting an innocent friend in the ter­rible position of either countenancing dishonesty or reporting a friend. True friends don't put people in that position. 
The analogy to denunciation of poli­tical dissenters in Russia is inappropri­ate: there is a world of difference be­tween turning someone in for disagreeing with an unelected govern­ment which has no legitimate claim on citizens' loyalty and being prepared to report an intentional violation of a freely accepted and mutually benefi­cial code of conduct. 
If the Honor Code is to succeed, it must be explained and "sold" to incom­ing classes from the beginning. The freshmen orientation program should devote significant time to it. Students must understand that it is important training for life, not just a way of taking exams. 
Regarding the impact of an Honor Code on the Notre Dame atmosphere: which is more truly supportive, an at­mosphere in which you tell your friend, "I care for you, therefore you can do destructive things and I won't inter­vene," or one in which you tell your friend, "I care about you; therefore, I will do what I can, or what I must, to help you be the best person you can be, even if it means risking your anger. I will treat you fairly, and I expect you to keep your commitment to treat me fairly"? I believe the latter reflects a deeper commitment. Jeremy Lane is a 1965 graduate of Notre Dame and is Executive Director 



Quote of the Day 
"A happy family is but an ear­lier heaven." 
John Bowring 

Friday, February 19, 1988 page 9
Viewpoint 



Teaching 1n NYC: a serv1ce project 
As a teacher of high school remedial writing, I have seen my share of bril­liance. "Death," one student writes, "is the number one killer in the world." Keen observation. This paper gets a 4.0 for content. 
Patrick Conlin 
t l


gues CO umn 

Amusing anecdotes and quotable quotes are fringe benefits of teaching. I'm writing today to tell you how you might gather your own collection. 
This year myself and other 1987 Notre Dame grads, Maria Madigan, Molly Rozum, Elaine Trigiani, Mark Sheridan, John Patella, and Paul Bridenstine are teaching in New York City Catholic high schools as part of a new volunteer service program organ­ized through the New York Archdiocese. Three 1987 grads of Holy Cross College and Bucknell also work with us. 
Three schools are currently involved in the program. Cardinal Hayes, where the men teach, is a school of about 1200 

P.O. Box Q 

Empathy abounds for club sports 
Dear Eaitor: 
The University of Notre Dame wo­men's track club would like to com­mend Pete Gegen for his series of ar­ticles about the recent decisions of the athletic department. His coverage was thorough and reflected well the quan­daries facing both the athletic depart­ment and the teams involved. We would also like to extend our sympathy to members of the women's field hockey team for their loss of varsity status. They have always conducted them­selves with the spirit and dignity rep­resentative of Notre Dame. As a club sport which has sought varsity status for over ten years, we, the members of the women's track club, can appreciate the difficulties the field hockey team is facing now and will face in the future. 
The recent actions of the athletic de­partment were ill-timed at best and reflect insensitivity to the needs of the athletes. Should money be the bottom line in structuring intercollegiate ath­letics? Should it take precedence over the commitment to current athletes? In light of the fact that the athletic de­partment represents the University of Notre Dame, its treatment of the field hockey team is extremely disappoint­ing. 
Amy Senew Linda Filar Marie Rhomburg Wendy Murray Women's Track Club Officers February 15, 1988 


A new beginning for student businesses 
Dear Editor: 
A new beginning for student busi­nesses is about to arrive. Effective April 1 of this year the student busi­nesses, Irish Gardens, The Cellar and Adworks, will no longer be operated from with the Student Union Board. A boys. Nestled in the South Bronx, Hayes draws its students largely from there and Harlem. Cathedral High School for girls draws its population from the aforementioned areas, as well as Brooklyn and Queens. St. Raymond's,
also for boys, is located in the North Bronx. 
The first day of school was shockingfor a number of reasons. First, nohe of us had any teaching experience. Second, not only were we now "the teachers," but for the first time, we were in the minority. The schools are composed of inner-city students, run­ning roughly 65 percent hispanic and 35 percent black. There is no question these places afford a fascinating view into an area of society that needs scrutiny: the inner city. 
The ten of us have received diverse assignments. Our assignments range form remedial writing to history to En­glish to band. We teach an averge of four to five classes daily, so any inex­perience we had was quickly corrected. 
Mter school, there are countless op­portunities to interact with the stu­dents. Mter-school tutoring, while often a necessity, is a fantastic way to get to know the kids. Athletics provide an­other great vehicle to get involved. From our group there have been soc­cer, football, track, basketball and cross-country coaches. Virtually any activity you might think of will often find an audience and would necessarily need a moderator. . 
We live separately. The women live together in Manhattan's upper west side. They have ample opportunity to take in the culture or simply explore the city right in their neighborhood. The men live on an upper floor of Cardinal Hayes. We each have our own "apart­ment" along with a group of teaching diocesian priests. By proximity, we have a "community" with these priests, there are few restrictions, and our free time is our own. Since we live in the South Bronx, we get a closer look into inner-city neighborhoods. For our frequent trips to Manhattan, however, the subway is only two blocks away. To fund our exploring, a weekly stipend of $100 is coupled with our full room and board. 
Not only is this a great way to expe­rience New York, it is the best way to render community serivce through 

new organization called the Student Business Board has been formed to oversee the operation of these busi­nesses. The operation of the Student Business Board will be governed by the Business Control Council, which is com­posed of the General Manager, the three store managers, the Student Body Treasurer, the Student Body President or Vice-President and a Student Senator. We are not beginning the search for a General Manager. The General Manager will be the Chief Fin­ancial Officer for the student business. Quantitative decisions concerning staffing, inventory, promotion or other matters directly affecting the financial performance of the business will be his11er responsibility. If you are business-oriented and want a real chal­lenge, we would be interested in hearing from you. Applications and in­formation regarding the position and the Student Business Board are avail­able in the Student Government offices in LaFortune. Application deadline is Friday, Feb. 26 at 5 p.m. 
Paul M. Bierbusse Executive Assistant Student Government February 18, 1988 

SMC Security not a babysitter 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing this letter in response to what I feel was an overstated com­plaint of the Saint Mary's Security De­partment (Feb. 16, 1988). It seems nec­essary to specify the conditions under which Security is obliged to respond. Saint Mary's Security is not and should not be a 24 hour baby-sitting service. What would the two ladies have done if their car stalled 10, 20 or 30 miles from campus? 
It would seem to me that two women in college should be capable of handling the situation a little better. Mter graduation, they will not have a campus security department to call upon. The histrionic garble about being "assaulted, abducted, or possibly found frozen to death" was a bit much. Being safe is one thing, but this situation was taken to an extreme. Ladies, I'm surprised the man who stopped for you didn't rob you, tie you both up and gouge your eyes out with a blunt stick while guffawing evilly. At least he would have kept you from suffering the impending doom at the hands of the "strangers" who were probably licking their chops while waiting for you in nearby homes. 
Brian Chapman Off-campus February 18, 1988 


Reagan's ND ties questionable 
Dear Editor: 
As one of the participants in the con­versation about which Bob Hallahan complained in the Feb. 10 issue of The Observer, I would like to respond to what Mr. Hallahan has said. First, Mr Hallahan complained that I, and others like me, are "politically unaware." The reported conversation has nothing to do with my political awareness, or lack thereof. I was stating my opinion about a specific act of Ronald Reagan, not about any problem I might find with his foreign or domestic policy. My point is valid. Ronald Reagan--on<:~--played a part in a movie entitled "Knute Rockne: All-American." He played George Gipp, a player who has reached legendary status in this country. Now, Mr. Reagan's friends call him "Gipp" and the Minnesota Twins gave him a Twins shirt with "Gipper" printed on the back. Mr. Reagan is coasting on the name recognition and emotions which follow a name such as George Gipp or Notre Dame. My feelings about this have nothing to do with my feelings teaching. We were full time teachers from day one. It is also a great way to give service to a talented group of young people that really needs help. The schools have extremely high per­centages of students from single-parent homes, and many of the students receive need-based financial aid. Despite these difficulties and many others, 85 percent of the seniors at Car­dinal Hayes will go to college in 1988. College is often on the students' minds, and it is almost mystifying for them to picture the pastoral setting of Notre Dame. I have had numerous freshmen affirm, only because of our brief asso­ciation, that Notre Dame is their first choice in schools. 
If you are interested in a one-year service project that allows you to teach and get involved in the lives of young people, please consider teaching at Ca­thedral, Cardinal Hayes, or St. Raymond's next year. For further in­formation and applications, see Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns. Pat Conlin is a 1987 Notre Dame graduate and is a voluntary teacher in the New York Archdiocese. 
about Mr. Reagan as a person or as 
President of the United States. I can 
dislike his using the Notre Dame name 
without disliking, or liking, for that 
matter, his policies or his personality. 
Second, Mr. Hallahan takes issue with the alleged "Notre Dame ar­rogance." Personally, Mr. Hallahan, I worked very hard to achieve the status of a Notre Dame student. I would object to anyone--be he President, pauper, or Supreme Court justice, who allies his name to a school, name, and tradition, to which he does not belong. Does the fact that Martin Sheen played Presi­dent Kennedy in a movie entitle him to the benefits of the Oval Office? Neither does Ronald Reagan's playing of George Gipp entitle him to the benefits of the Notre Dame name or tradition. 
Kerry A. Sieger Lyons Hall February 12, 1988 

Attack on Opus Dei unnecessary 
Dear Editor: 
Ms. Ann Pettifer is entitled to respond to Thomas D'Andrea's column, and she is entitled to her opinion re­garding Opus Dei. However, in res­ponding to Mr. D'Andrea's opinions, Ms. Pettifer attacks an organization to which he belongs. 
If Ms. Pettifer disagrees with Mr. D'Andrea, she should state her reasons for her disagreement. Failing to pres­ent a reasonable argument, Ms. Pet­tifer implies that we should dismiss Mr. D'Andrea's opinion simply because he belongs to an organization with which she disagrees. 
Perhaps Ms. Pettifer would ask you to remember that I was a Boy Scout (a member of a para-military, sexist, sur­vivalist group), when you assess my objection to her letter. 
Michael P. Latz Notre Dame Law School February 18, 1988 
Editorial Board Operations Board




Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief... .. . . . . .. .. Kevin Becker Bus;ness Manager ............................. John Oxrider 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .......................... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................Molly Killen News Editor ........... .....................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .......................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin
Viewpoint Editor.... ........Chris Murphy Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor... ... Dennis Corrigdn Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton lhe administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele
Accent Editor.... . .. ............... Michael Naughton 

possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... laura Stanton Commentaries. leiters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor... . ....... Jim Carroll 

IS available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leiters, is encouraged. Founded Novemb.tr3, 1988 
Ace
Friday, February 19, 1988 


"Pra,ctice being a good Samaritan" 
On We~nesdays Acce~t ta~e. . " they should have been warned may need a visitation of grace broken beer bottle scattered ~a~e, Kns Mu~hys self-· . Bash•~g, ~sed to apply to about when they were weaned. that will leave us thoughtful in over the grass where students ms1ghtfulness: Hey, buddy, the ~portm hfe of cavemen, MADD are my kind of people. ways that will not be writtt.n up play. Charity drags a drunken you're 20 years old. That's beatmg. each other over the As a chaplain anxious to save on the centerfold of The Obser-classmate out of a bar where halfway to 40," reminded me head With clubs. Today ~e youngsters from tragedy, I'm ver. he could be murdered for his that at 60 ~r so, I'm h~lfway to have pope-bashers, ethmc: happy to see people become Wednesday, bringing blessed varsity jacket. Charity puts a 120, a patnarchal age 1f there bashers, gender-bashers, JOck-specialists in the way they want ashed to the employees of the sign on a Coke machine that is ever was one. bashers, and gay-bashers. to keep wolves from the door. North Dining Hall, I heard that out of order, as a warning to 
Is it churlish, then, to remind one of the women had fallen the next guy to save his activists that in their concern on the ice, and was now in the money.Father Robert Griffin 
for life, they should do more hospital with a broken ankle. I 
Charity is also thoughtful. than climb on bandwagons felt bad for the women; a Charity flushes a toilet afterLetters to a Lonely God traveling a widely advertised worker who devotes herself to using it. Charity, fastidious circuit? waiting on students shouldn't enough to line the toilet seat The Right-to-Lifers used to have it so hard. with paper, doesn't leave the
Moses, who scolded the "Basher" is the metaphor ror a get on Father Theodore Hes-I am angry at what happened tis~ue there for the next guy to Israelites from Exodus to critic. I should write William burgh's back about defending to her. Why was the ice there? peel off. Charity doesn't rip offDeuteronomy, was 120 when Satire, to find out where the the unborn against the violence For several days, the sidewalks things.
he died. Every priest is, ex clever, colorful use of the word of abortion. Hesburgh would were treacherous. Anyone, Last Friday, Captain Ahab officio, a scold; however, in started. 
wisely answer: "All life is holy, young or old, could have disappeared from my door inBiblical parlance, he's called a Do I sound unpleasant, like a from the womb to the tomb. slipped. Notre Dame family Pasquerilla West. Did heprophet. preacher, a self-appointed Save the unborn; but save also members are injured every wander off on his wooden leg,Prophets tend to end their prophet, or a kid-basher, when the young children, the winter, on days when steps and to attend an SYR party in an-careers shabbily; some are I remind students of the truths teenagers, the young adults, sidewalks are a glare of ice. other dorm? If you should seestoned to death; the best of that make people free? I mean especially those who are par-Am I now bashing the mainte-him, please send him home;them bit the dust when he was ~no harm, since I love Notre ents of growing families." nance department? It's not my don't encourage him to stay insawed in half, like a log. Did : Dame and all the members of "Save the working men and intention to tell the mainte-your room. Captain Ahab is thethey cut him lengthwise, from the family, and I'm not trying women, the retirees, and the nance department their busi-apple of Darby O'Gill's eye. 

head to toe, or did they save to upstage students in their elderly. The holocaust destroy-ness. That dog cries to sleep at nightthemselves work by dividing desire to do good. 
ing the unborn is unspeakable. A caring community isn't in a when he looks for Captainhim through the middle? The Observer is filled these But don't forget the holocaust rush after an accident to find a Ahab, and sees he's not there.

In the words of Eliot's days with warnings that rein­devouring the unwanted, the scapegoat to blame. A caring Kris Murphy, at 20, is a warn·Prufrock: "I an not a prophet...I force the warnings heard on unneeded, the uncared for, the community says: "We have a ing to the rest of that no one ishave seen the eternal Footman television: Life is beautiful, so misfits and defenseless. We problem. What can I do about getting any younger. Kris mayhold my coat, and snicker/And don't mess it up with drugs, must have a burning compas-it?" Notre Dame is not short of have heard that in the eveningin short, I was afraid." The drunkenness, sexual disease, sion for them as victims." able-bodied people, thousands of life, we will be judged oneternal Footman is Death. unwanted pregnancies. Protect I'm happy to see the newspa-of whom live in the dorms. On love. If Notre Dame is a caringIf Death is snickering at a youself from eating disorders, per articles promoting Alcohol days when the walking is community, Kris may learncoward like me, afraid of being and attend a lecture on Rape Awareness or concern for the tough, could not some of those some of life's lessons early: sent to a prophet's grave, I say: Control. 
AIDS epidemic. I admire the dorm residents, for the sake of The best kind on"Death, be not proud!" I W6igh Of all the groups intent on speakers reminding us of the the common good, take a consciousness-raising is to250 pounds; critics planning to saving us from ourselves, the need for inter-racial under-shovel in hand, to clear off the practice being a goodsaw me ·in half will have their title of one of them sounds a standing or our duties to the ice? But how often, in the Samaritan. Just because yourwork cut out for them. little redundant: Mothers 

Third World. All these highly worst of winters, does that neighbor isn't naked, hungry, "Bashing," I've noticed, is the Against Drunken Driving. Was touted causes deserve our happen·r thirsty, or in prison, doesn't current jargon-word that the ever a mother indifferent to, or heartfelt support. Still, for Charity, I hope, isn't blind. mean that what you do for him smart-talkers use when they're in favor of, drunken driving? Notre Dame, I dream of more Charity doesn't spend all its isn't done for Christ. If my attacking the loudmouths. It shows how dangerous the than this. time conjuring up a devil who telling you this is kid-bashing, Those guilty of any of the world has become, when mot-1have a dream of this, God's isn't there ignoring the devil you can treat me to one of ~lle~e? forms of bashing are hers have t~ .identi~ them-little acre of a campus, improv-waiting in living color, just those hemlock cocktails that tmphc1tly condemned as red-selves as mJhtants m a crusade · 'tself as a truly caring com-outside the front door. old Socrates enjoyed as a necks who take unfair advan-to save children from mistakes ~~~ity. For this to happen, we Charity stops to pick up the nightcap. 
Literary Festival: a premier event 
O
STEPHANIE SNYDER still put together solely by stu­a reading in the library accent writer dents at Notre Dame. This auditorium, and the next mor­e student says to another, year's executive committee ning each will hold a "con­You'll never guess what my consists of four students: Mike versation" for those who are Freshman Seminar professor is Evces, Brian Bajuk, Stephanie interested in learning more making our class do... (sigh). Thomas, and Mike Anderson. about the author. Books by We have to go listen to some Professor Matthias and Profes­each author are available at the boring lecture for this thing sor O'Rourke have been their bookstore, are on reserve at called the Sophomore Literary connections with the past Fes­the library, and will be on sale Festival. I'm going to feel really tivals and have helped them at the receptions following the stupid being the only freshman "compile a list of authors to readings. there, too." The other student invite," Evces explains. Al­Josef Skvorecky will begin him an American Book Award works include "Blount's Anvil," laughs. though the help of these pro­the week on Sunday. Skvorecky in 1987. a novel, "Scribble, Scribble, 
This is a typical reaction fessors does not go unap­is originally from Czechos­Peter Michelson, a prolific Scribble," a collection of short from an uninformed student on preciated, Evces emphasizes lovakia, where much of his prose and fiction writer, as well stories, and his most recent the subject of the Sophomore that the Festival "is strctly work was banned by the gov­as a former professor at Notre novel, "A Survey of the Atlantic Literary Festival. The event is student-run." ernment censors, and he now Dame, will also give his Beaches." really a series of brilliant read­During the summer, the en­lives in .Canada. Along with reading on Tuesday. Some of The last author to give her ings and stories, given by pres­tire committee wrote invitations writing novels such as "Miss his works include "The Eater" reading will be Paule Marshall, tigious authors, from around to numerous well-known aut­Silver's Past," "The Cowards," and "The Aesthetics of Pornog­a novelist. She is co-sponsored the world. The point most hors in hopes that some would and "The Engineer of Human raphy." by the Black Cultural Arts stressed upon, however, Is that respond. Some agreed enthusi­Souls," Skvorecky has writen On Wednesday, John Engels, Council. Her first and most It is not just for sophomores, astically, some rejected, and many screenplays. a native of South Bend, a highly acclaimed novel, titled but that everyone, including others just never replied. double graduate of Notre "Brown Girl, Brownstones," was the public, is welcome and A sum of money for each Marilyn Krysl, a poet and Dame, and a distinguished adapted into a play in 1960 urged to come. The Festival is author is provided by the Cul­short story writer, will continue poet, will give his reading. En­and then won Best Play of the 
a week long this year, from tural Arts Commission of the with her reading on Monday gels was: a Pulitzer Prize Year. Since then, she has writ­Sunday, February 21 to Satur­Student Union Board to each night. After graduating from finalist in 198.3, a recipient of ten several other books and day, February 27 -and is free. author who does attend; the the University of Oregon, Krysl the Fullbright Award from has received many awards. 
The attendance for the event English department and the wrote five books of poetry. Her Yugoslavia in 1985, and he The morning following each is large and does not just con­Collegiate Fellows Office have latest is "Mozart, Westmoreland also won Pushcart Prizes in author's reading, there will be sist of Notre Dame students; also made contributions. and Me." 1980 and 1984. He has written a conversation with each au­about one half of the audience Some of the more famous Etheridge Knight, who is co­12 books including "Signals thor, with the exception of are local citizens and those authors from past years include sponsored by the Black Studies From the Safety Coffin," "Blood Hendrie, for whom the Col­from surrounding states. "It John Irving, Tennessee Wil­Program, will give a reading on Mountain," and "Cardinals in legiate Fellows Office is spon­(the Sophomore Literary Fes­liams, Kurt Vonnegut, Norman Tuesday. Knight, who has been the Ice Age." soring a breakfast Friday mor­tival) has such magnitude that Mailer, Allen Ginsburg, John nominated for a Pulitzer Prize, ning. people all over the nation talk Updike, and Arthur Miller. began his career as a poet Don Hendrie Jr., a novelist "Each author has expressed about which authors are going These names alone disclose while serving time in the In­and winner of a Pushcart Prize much interest in interacting to attend. It's a premier deal," the importance and prestige of diana State Prison for a in 1979, will give his reading with and meeting Notre Dame claims Mike Evces, chairman of this cultural event. narcotic's-related armed rob­on Thursday. Graduating from students," Evces explains. "It's the executive board for the Fes­This year seven authors will bery. His most recent Stanford in 1965, he went on ( the Festival) not going to be a tival. be attending the Sophomore publication entitled "The Essen­to the University of Iowa Writ­series of dry lectures--It's a fes­
After 21 years, this event is Literary Festival. Each wili give tial Etheridge Knight" brought ers Workshop in 1967. His t.ival after all." 



nt 
page 11 



1Must-=-see mov1es ) 
SOMI':THING WILD Fri Annenberg Auditorium 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. 
Jeff Daniels stars as a business executive who Is in for quite a weekend after he commits a serious crime --he neglects to pay his lunch check. Strangely enough by doing this he attracts the attention of co-star Melanie Grlffilh, and the two are ready for an unusual tour of America. Color, USA. 1 14 minutes. 
• PHILADI':LPHIA STORY 
Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 

Star-studded classic comedy about the upper class and romance. Director George Cukor places Katherine Hepburn In the role of a spoiled heiress who must swallow some of her pride in order to keep her love Interest. Cary Grant. Jimmy Stewart also stars In this Academy Award winning film. Black and White, USA. 1 12 minutes. 
NOTORIOUS Mon Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 

Cary Grant also stars In this film only now he plays the role of an American agent with talented actress Ingrid Bergman at his side. Bergman places herself In danger because she must marry an older spy, Claude Rains, to uncover his suspicious activities. Needless to say It Is another classic Alfred Hitchcock thriller. Black and White, USA. 98 minutes. 
Local 
Today at .3 p.m. the Notre Dame Men's Tennis team will compete against Northwes­tern University at the Eck Ten­nis Pavilion. 
The Snite Museum of Art presents the exhibit "Recent Accessions: Prints and Drawings." It Is a collection of works on paper from the 15th to the 20th century and in­cludes French, Italian, Ger­man, and American designs. Call 2.39-5466 for more Infor­mation. 
The Notre Dame Men's Tennis tea~ takes on Miami at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 4 p.m. on Saturday. 
The Notre Dame Music Depar­tment Concert presents William Cerny on the piano at the Annenberg Auditorium at 1,:.30 p.m. on Sunday. 
On Monday, the World Wres­tling Federation's "Superstars of Wrestling" at the JACC. It begins at 7:.30 p.m. Call 2.39­7516 for ticket Information. 
"King Arthur and the Magic Sword," a children's play, will be presented by the Indiana University of South Bend Theatre Department In the Main Auditorium. Perfor­mances are Saturday and Sunday at I p.m. Call for ticket information at 2.37­4278. 
On Sunday at 8 p.m., "Chinatown" with Jack Nic­holson and Faye Dunaway will be shown as part of the Indiana University of South Bend Film Series In the Northside Hall Little Theatre. The film begins at 8 p.m. Call 2.37-4278 for ticket information. 
Pacific Coasts Concerts presents Cheap Trick with all four original members per­forming March .3 at the Indiana Club. Tickets go on sale today and can be pur­chased at Night Winds or any other Ticket Master outlets.... 
SACRI':D HEART SUNDAY MASS SCHI':DULI': 
5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) 
Fr. Paul Holland 9 a.m. Fr. George Wlskirchen 10:.30 a.m. Fr. Richard McBrien 
12:15 p.m. Fr. John Lahey 
7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady Chapel 
SACRI':D HEART CONFI':SSION SCHI':DULI': 
11:15 a.m. Monday thr Satur­day 5 p.m. Monday thr Friday 7 p.m. Monday thr Thursday 
SAINT MARY'S SUNDAY MASS SCHI':DULE 
10:.30 a.m. Church of 
Loretto 4:.30 p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.m. Holy Cross Chapel 10 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers-Church of 
Loretto 
SATISFACTION Forum Cinema 

Justine Bateman makes her big screen debut as Jennie Lee the lead singer In a struggling rock and roll band. Composed of four girls and one guy, they become closer friends after spending their first summer out of high school performing in a ritzy beach resort club. On the way to success they suffer through those Inevitable social class clashes and learn about love. Also stars Llam Neeson and Deborah Harry. 
IRONWI':f:D University Park East Cinema 

Based on William Kennedy's Pullltzer Prize-winning best-seller, this film tells the story of Francis Phelan (Jack Nicholson) and Helen Archer (Meryl Streep) who must struggle to live on the streets of Albany during the Depression: Carroll Baker stars as Phelan's wife and Fred Gwynne as the bartender who they get to know. 


Local Theater Guide 
0000000000000000000 
Rf:ADY Ill CINI':MAS TOWN AND COUNTRY 
2.340 Hickory Rd. Niles, Michigan 420 E. Main St. 
259-9090 68.3-1112 
"SHE'S HAVING A BABY" "THREI': MEN AND A BABY" "MOONSTRUCK" 

"PLANI':S, TRAINS, AND AUTOMOBILI':S" "THRI':E Mf:N AND A BABY" 
"BATTI':Rif:S NOT INCLUDI':D" SCOTTSDALI': CINEMAS 
"THI': COUCH TRIP" "MADI': IN HEAVI':N" 
I 15.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-458.3 
"ACTION JACKSON" "SHOOT TO KILL" 

FORUM CINI':MAS 100 CENTER CINI':MA 
North Village Mall 277-1522 
I 00 Center St. 259-0414 "THI': LAST f:MPI':ROR" "SATISFACTION" 
"WALL STRI':ET""BROADCAST Nf:WS" "FOR KEEPS" 


Justine Bateman and friends star as members of a rock and roD band In "Satisfaction." 
UNIVERSITY PARK Wf:ST 
University Park Mall 277-0441 

"SHOOT TO KILL" "GOOD MORNING VIETNAM" "HOPI': AND GLORY" 
UNIVI':RSITY PARK EAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7336 
"THI': Sf:RPENT AND THE RAINBOW" "IRONWI':f:D" "ACTION JACKSON" "PLANES, TRAINS, AND AUTOMOBILI':S" "BAR FLY" 
"CRY FRI':EOOM" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 
• r'fideo Re¥iew 
'I
11 
"The Lost Boys"(1987) Is a hlp ghoul story about a group of renegade motorcycle youths-Vampires who inhabit a picturesque California (where else?) coastal community. Star~ Corey Feldman, Kiefer Suther­land, Dianne Wiest and Edward Herrmann (Warner Home Video, rated R. 98 minutes, $89.95). 
"A Prayer for the Dying"( I 987) Is a suspense­thriller about an IRA terrorist (Mickey Rourke) whose attempt to leave Ireland gets him In­volved with organized crime In London. Also stars Alan Bates and Bob Hoskins (Virgin Vision, rated R. 104 minutes, $89.95). 
"Rolling Vengance"( 1987) Is an all-out revenge'destructlon file about a young man who creates a 15-fool 8-ton "Monster Truck" to wreak havoc on the villains who murdered his family (Charter Entertain­ment, rated R. 90 minutes, $79.98). 
"The Supergrass"( 1987) is a British comedy of errors about a young man, set up by police in an undercover operation to capture dope smugglers, whose aplomb comes undone 
when faced with read criminals (Charter Entertainment. rated R. 105 minutes, $79.98). 
"Crazy Moon"( 1987) Is an offbeat love story starring Kiefer Sutherland as a slightly eccentric rich kid with a fond­ness for big band music, bow­ties, and crazy shenanigans who falls In love with a free­spirited young deaf girl (Nelson Entertainment. rated PG-13, 89 minutes, $79.98). 
Fred "The Hammer" William­son stars ln'The Mes­senger"( 1986), an action­packed crime drama about an 

• 
ex-prisoner who gets Involved In the Syndicate while avenging the death of his wife (Orion Home VIdeo, rated R. 95 minutes, $79.98). 
Miscellaneous: For the children, this week's releases included the animated "It's the Easter Beagle, Charlie Brown"(HI-Tops Video, .30 minutes, $14.95) and three new episodes of the snugly video bear Teddy Ruxpln ("A Royal Adventure," 70 minutes, 
• $29.95;"Teddy and the Mudblups," .30 minutes, $14.95;"Win One for the Twlp­per," .30 minutes, $14.95). 

.....-----------------------------·----­
Friday, February 19, 1988

page 12 The Observer 

Sports Briefs 

The ND volleyball team has gained three top high school players for next year. Julie Brem­ner, a 5-10 setter from Wheaton, _IlL, heads the group. She was named Reebok National Co-Player of the Year and received many other honors. Also signing letters of intent were 5-8 hitter~oanna Br~no of Colorado Springs, Colo., and 6-1 hitter Jenmfer Slosar of Farmington Hills, Mich. -The Observer 
Keith Adkins, a 6-2 prep senior basketball player from Paintsville, Ky., has announced he will attend Notre Dame. Adams is a three-point ace, averaging 32 points a game for his 15-9 squad. He has hit 119-of-238 three-pointers this year, exactly 50 percent. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC gymnastics team willfaceMiami of Ohio tomorrow at 5 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Cheerleading and leprechaun tryouts should attend an organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium of the JACC. Requirements will be addressed and applications distributed. Instructional clinics will be held the following Monday or Thursday evenings. Proof of insurance is necessary for clinics. For more infor­mation, call John Romney (272-8718) or Marge Ball (4068). -The Observer 

n.oe..-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, KQePtll ciiiSIIified .m.tising from 10 Lnt. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. 'The oe..-Saint Mary'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts clualfleds from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday through Frtday. Delodllne for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. AUclasslfleds must 
Classifieds be prtlpMI, either In person Of' by mall. The charge Ia 10 centa per five charKtenl per day. 
LIFE'S TO WHOEVER TOOK THE SPORTS IL­LOLA AND FRANKIII!III (ALIAS MOM SHEEP -Thanks lor the marvelousFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­A BEACH 

BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955255-LUSTRATED OUT OF MY MAILBOX ON AND DAD!) I'M SO GLAD YOU TWO moondancea and celebrating the beat
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL
NOTICES 3684 
2"13 OR 2"14: PLEASE RETURN IT-­CAME! IT'S GOING TO BE A GREAT year of my lila on that wonderful 

Beachlront hotel on famous strip with 2 50ny UISketbla 
INTACT--IMMEDIATELY. NO QUES­WEEKENDIII LOVE YOU BOTHIII weekend. Lat our year together be a 

restaurants, 3 bars, large pool, bike shop Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs lor the 
TIONS WILL BE ASKED. THANK YOU. JACKIE foundation of what we can build our 
and beachwear. Only $14S?ers. (4/toom) 
JOE MC., 306 BROWNSON P.S.I HAVE lives. I love you.
best price on Sony 0&00 3.5" diskettes for 8 days, 7 nights of Florida fun, sun 
WITNESSES Closed doors and soft floors are the cure ALWAYS YOUR CAMEL.
lor your Macintosh r other computer. Call & surf. Don't miss outll Call Now! !-Boo­
lor old fashioned snaps. Twirl an old P .S. So how Ia the weather?­
283-2101 and help support the Macin· 4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR­ENJOY-US. 
KATHLEEN-HOW NICE FOR JPW TO man's rocker-this weekend ? So happy...
tosh Users Group! Guaranteed lor tile HOOD.475 MO. CALL 277­

BE PLANNIOD IN HONOR OF YOUR9097.0THERS AVAILABLE LONDON-ROME SUMMER PRO­BIRTHDAY~ THAT MEANS THE HEY SS-DOGMATIC IS JUST OOG­ATTENTION ••• All she's looking lor is GRAMS1988 CELEBRATION HAS TO LAST AT MATICII LOVE YA-WB TWO DOLLARS! H's KATHLEENMARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 
SMC.ND 277-1051 DAY. 
LEAST AN EXTRA WEEK SO WE CAN FOCHLER'S birthday! Stop by 209 BP London: May 18-June 17 -travel In HAVE THE REAL PARTYIIIWE LOVE Shmurdz, thanks for the 'za. I love you and see what you can do to make it HAP­lreland,Scotland,England,& France
WANTED 
YOU, CUPCAKE! PIDG, KRIS, AND lor it. Let's make it breakfast next time, PY!
TYPING AVAILABLE 
BAlOG OK?! : Lots o' love, : D. 
287-M182 

Rome: June 12-Juty 11 -travel In Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any France,Swltz.,Gann.,& Italy Cou"""'
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING TO FELLOW VERMIN HANGERS: Kim: No 21st goes without a personal. 272-8827 RANDY, BOB, AND SEAN ... (wait, that's Happy Birthday! again. Love,The crazy
weekend tn Photo,Bio,Buac,Hist,Soc,& ltal. MAURA KENNEDY, Will share expanses. Good Conversa­INFORMATIONAL I ORGANIZA­Amicus est tamquam aHer idem.
not your REAL name!) ·-HAVE A GOOD Ecuadorian. 

tionalist TIONAL M.U.
WEEKEND. LUV, DEL

Call 1108 evenings. MEETING
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 277· SLAP (JAMIE): Thank you so much lor 
Sponsored by the I.U. Club of Notre Feb 23 -7:00 p.m.
7406 HELP I the Rosas and services rendered this Dame. carroll Hall (SMC) I NEED A RIDE TO Valentine's Day weekend. Love the one Alumni Hall TYPING -cALL DOLORES BALL STATE. who loves the blonde.
For More Info, Call Prot.Biack at 284-Welcomes the parents ol all of ~s juniors.

OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round.237-1949 CALL LIZ AT 284-5262
4460 Have a great weekend and enjoy yourEuropa,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala. :All visit to the center ol the universe.
IF YOU CAN HELP. KRISTEN GILL: Have an awesome 19th
ex;;t:;n:···;:yj;iN.Ci....st:iivict::·..c.\Li 
fields. $900-2000 mo. Sigh._ 
birthday! : Love Kerri laat Chance For Spring Break '881
MRS. COKER 233-7009. lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­
IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92825. 
Limited apace remains at South Padre, HE'S 5'8", 169LBS., HE'S FROM
THE SALTV DOGS ARE BEGINNING FlexclapMY GIRLFRIEND 
North Pedre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal­ROCKVILLE, MD, HE'S A SENIOR, AND 
TO LOSE THEIR SPICE !Ill FLEXCLAPneeds a ride from NO to Pittsburgh after : ' • ' RIDE NEEDED • • • 
ton Beach and Steamboat, Coloredo HE'S SURPRISINGLY LARGE-YOU
Flexctap
JPW. II your parents would be able to To Minneapolis weekend ol Feb 26th. 
for skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchaae Tours GUESSED IT---HE'S THE LOOMERIII
TO MATT CRAMER: HAVE A GREAT
give her a ride to the Pittsburgh area, Will share expenses. Call Jane at 284­
toll free 1-800-321-5911 lor reserva­AND AS IF ALL THAT WASN'T
B-DAY. YOU ARE A GREAT FRIEND!!! 
please call Kevin at 239-5303. Thanks. 4411. 
tions and lnlonnatlon TODAY. Credit ENOUGH, HE'S A YEAR OLDER AND
WE WOULDN'T TRADE YOU FOR FICA JAMS IN 2C & SC 
cards accepted.

c;~~~i;y·H~~~~i~~-~·-r;;;~i·;;~~~~-i~-~h;;;:, Wanted: lour riders to anywhere in ANYTHING. STAY COOL! LOVE, THE WISER: NO MORE CHAPPED LIPS, NO SMC CHICKS. Roses are Red MORE MUSKRATS, AND NO MORE
Mom this weekend! La Fortune Florida, during spring break Give me a K 
She-ra is hot. As lor thinking about anyth­THINKING BETTER OF IT. HAPPY Dear Snuggle, Here's your Valentine ing else; Well no, I'm not. BIRTHDAY LITTLE GUY, AND MAY IT personal--I Love You, Bunny BE A BANNER YEAR FOR THE BIG 
basement--Fun Gifts. if interested call '4085 
Get ready lor Spring Break by selling 

unwanted class books lor $$$ at Pan­Need Ride to CHICAGO 2-26 ·2880 What's it spell? GUY. dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off 
For Sale: Creighton and Marquette Stu­Duhhh-Duhhhhhhhhh: dent ticket x11 08 This is ridiculous. Can you imagine what HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHARLIE BUCK­

NO Ave). Open 7 days/ week 10-5:30. NEED RIDE To-FROM OR JUST FROM -fashions of a class act­MD SPRING BREAK WILL GO TO D.C., 
other people think when they see us on LEY!! BIRTHDAY WISH: THAT THE

FASHION SAVVY BALT,OR LOWER PA: MARK 1422 
Have a Coke the quad? Do you care? Do I? YEAR ENDS SOON FOR WILLIAM F.
8 pm CENTURY CENTER 
While studying the CPA IS HE STILL ALIVE? 

FEB. 20 Wanled: 4 fun people -designer fashions lor men & women,
\ LOST/FOUND l 
Day 6 ·I can't take it anymore. I'm still: Anyone looking lor a ride to anywhere 

live band, party-in Florida during Spring Break :call Jim 
polite.
free transportation thank you, st. jude!! Day 7 -1 begin to get crazy. I pace. I THE TOP 1 0 REASONS WHY YOU
FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES NEAR £4085 
thank you, st. jude!! babble. SHOULD LOVE CASEY MOORE: COM· ZAHM HALL. CALL JEN AT 3193 TO 
Day 8 -1 cirlce the prey slowly, move in PILED FROM THE HOME OFFICE IN

CLAIM. An Tostal Organizational Meeting Sun­
for the kill. .. LINCOLNWOOD, IL 10. HE TAKES OR­day, Feb 21 7:30 PM Thursday, Friday, GANIC CHEMISTRY WITH A SMILE 9.

"OBVIOUSLY" This personal is for youIF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN FOR SALE Saturday Recess, the Mudpits, St. Mary's HE SWEATS WHILE DOING AEROBICS 

Dan Ta!boll Love KAS ... and she met a handsome King, who 8. HE IS A REAL SOCIAL BUTTERFLY 

O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN events, etc. Be a part ol it! 
THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. 

AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING SCREAMING MIDGETS HELL 
BRIAN: was travelling through the countryside 7. HE'S ORGINALL Y FROM THE WEST 

IN FROM 
LAFORTUNE. ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING MIDGETS HELL I can't bear the thought of you with an­building an army lor a war. And when he COAST 6. HE LOVES THE BEACH 
SCREAMING FROM other woman. If you won't have me then first saw her he said 'Wow." And when BOYS 5. HE'S NOT AFRAID TO EM· 
................................................................ BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE THEY'RE BACKlit 
there is no reason for me to live. Please she first saw him, she said ... BARRASS HIMSELF IN PUBLIC 4.HE'S be mine or I can't go on. 
I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE GREAT TO SIT BY IN CLASS... WHENINGIIIIIIII without my brown leather WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL: : Becky Snugglebunny: I need a hug. YOU DON'T FEEL LIKE TAKINGgloves I left in 120 ()'Shag on that cold 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­The DARK FORCE is wijh them!!! 

Studmuffin NOTES 3. HE HAS THE BEST CON·
Wednesday 1oth 2:00pm. If found, ABLE. CALLJON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 VERSATIONS WHILE HE'S SOUNDplease call £1763 soonl!llll!l!!lll : : : AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION TIRED OF HEARING WORN-OUT SYR ASLEEP 2. ALEXANDER GRAHAM

BECKY:
JUST A LITTLE BETTER. 

CLASSICS LIKE 'WHAT I LIKE ABOUT BELL IS HIS HERO 1. "CHICS DIG HIM, Get control of yourself. There's more to
FOUND: Pair ol eyeglasses between YOU' AND 'MONY, MONY'? WHEN 
life than me. Wake up and smell the col­BECAUSE HE RARELY WEARS UN­4276 to claim. Bass, Hardshell case. Traynor Bloc-80 lee. The writing is on the wall. Face the N DERWEAR!"
P.E. and D-2 parking lot. Call Lisa at :FOR SALE: Steinberger-copy Headless WAS THE LAST TIME A BAND DIDN'T 
PLAY 'SHOUT? THE NEW SOUND ON You looked good at dinnermusic. Here's looking at you kid. A birdAmp. Set lor $400 or best offer. Also, CAMPUS IS COMING TO CHIPS, FEB 

in the hand ... Buy American Dave Stolpman, LET ME USE YOU AND 

LOST--A Hewlett Packard calculator. If Complete Bedroom Outfit-Obi. Be& Box 23 AND 24: THE GROOVE DON'T MISS ABUSE YOU! LOVEBrianyou've found one please call Bill at x-Spring-Triple Dresseo' Mirror-S-Drawer YOUR CHANCE TO DANCE YOUR 
or best offer. Call

1620. Chest. Set for $250 WAYOUTOFTHE RUT AND INTO THE Skoal BanditGene Jr. at 282-1757 ... 
GROOVE I THERESA V. Without you I wither_ OK, The pig will live, and Tobacco RoadFOUND RACQUETBALL RACKET 
SLINKY will be vacant, but we'll be better off lor ELAINE O'BRIEN (MOM): WELCOME
COVER IN PW MON 2"15. CALL £2737 New Geze bindings. Negotiable. Call 

ATTeNTION JUNIOR FORMeR HOWARD 
it. TO NOTRE DAME HAPPY 29TH! LOVE 
TO CLAIM 3945. 
RI!.STDeNTS: It looks now like the JPW 
Call THERESA V 3821 H's her Bday 2-20 It could be hell around here lor the next K&K 
................................................................ 
party Is on for Saturday night Feb. month and a half, but then again, it
REWARD FOR LOST GOLD FOR SALE: LONDON -2 round trip tlx 20th, after the dinner (around 9:JO or 
HAVE A GOOD ONE TV already isl JEANNE STIENBRONN (M.D.) : CON­
BRACELET(round).IT WAS LOST ON -use by 6-15-88 Call 317-848-7590. 
so) In room 2191n the Rock. It will last The Big Apple GRATSIIIIIITUESDAY FEB 16, AND A GOLD for about two hours or so. We will be 
SLINKY WANTS YOU T.V. I KNEW YOU COULD DO IT
HEART SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO IT. FRESH BLACK WALNUT MEATS asking for a slight donation at the TO MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE, A (WHILE THEY LAST). $5 LB. CALL 

door, since, as If you need to be told PRESENT FROM MY BOYFRIEND. IF BETTY AT 239-5604. 
To: Kathryn and Diane TLC, this, we don't have a hall to cover the thanks a whole bunch Only 21 more days until I can see yourFOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4178. : 

extra costs. If you have any questions smile. LDve, BREEN-PHILLIPS ... GET READY,THANK YOU 
but I would have rather seen your tan 
or problems, call Kevin at J609 or Kent SPIRIT WEEK WILL BE HERE SOON!!
lines SJC 
at 289-8614. Make sure you tell any THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE BPI!
Love you guys RobFound: some chick's glasses on the path Howard guys you see about It too, In up from the Grotto to the Ad Building. TICKETS \ 
case they don't see this ad. We'll also MARGARET COX LIKES BALD MEN!
DON'T WORRY AMERICA. DOLE WILLYou're myopic and probably can't read 
try to send out letters. See you there. RISE FROM THE SOUTH ON SUPER
this, but if you still want them, they've HEY Y'ALL, 4 BEAUTIFUL BLONDES IRISH MUSIC!! !Ill JOHN KENNEDY AND TUESDAY AND WE'LL BE LIVING IN NEW YORK! NEW YORK! BREAK A got scratched lenses, a clear round FROM VANDERBILT ARE Things We Won't Miss VI: FRIENDS AT MR. CHRISTIAN'S DI­BOB DOLE'S AMERICA I LEG JOHN. 

frame, and seriously need some tape to DESPERATELY SEEKING VANDY NO 

SUB activities (can YOU name one LEMMA FRI AND SAT 8-12 DINNERS hold them together. Call 3204 or 3206 BBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL PAT 277­
you've attended?) SERVED UNTIL 8 Rumor has it that ANGELA MENDOZA Last night was the balls Till!
and ask lor Bill, Dave, or Matt "The Beast" 2151 can't make it past midnight... we'll take 

any time this weekend to claim (or stop Paula, am I being too forward yet? Just any bets (call x1330) -this could be yourI NEED 4 GA'S TO VANDERBILT GAME 
by 3321.334 Holy X Hall). DID YOU MISS VALENTINE'S DAY? wondering .... lucky night -who knows, maybe she'll SHE WAS STANDING BY THE BAR, 
................................................................ CALL WENDY X4114 
make ij lor her BIRTHDAY -this wild sex Mmmm, SHE WAS LOOKING ALRIGHT! 
: TO THE PERSON WHO INADVER­0 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CASEY! 
goddess ol Texas turns 20 at midnight!

• 
TANTLY PICKED UP OR FOUND I NEED 3 MARQUETTE TIXI PLEASE C I hope your 2oth is the best. You HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANGELA!!
MY BLUE VUARNET SUNGLASSES AT CALL MARY AT 37601 deserve a great b-day after this weeki 

WHAT IS PUDDLETALK?CAREER & PLACEMENT •• KATHRYN HUMM •• ( -KATHRYN Don't celebrate too much. Have a great : FIND OUT TONIGHT : WVFI 64 AMPLEASE RETURN THEM TO KATIE AT WANTED: 2 TIX FOR VANDERBILT 
HUMM -) Hardships are surmountable one! Love yal Laura 7-9pm
CAREER & PLACEMENT GAME can Krist! 281-9840 

and Joys much more special when Dear TC lrm PV To live is to love, learn, OR PLEASE CALL SEAN £2265 OR 
shared with someone like you. Thank you and laugh. May your 19th yr be filled with £2283 -NO QUESTIONS ASKED 2 VANDERBILT AND 2 MARQUETTE 
lor being that someone. --M.W.O.G.A.S. WE, THE JANITORS IN THE LAFOR­all ol this & more. Happy B-Dayl luv, a OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, SPRING BREAK WON'T BE THE SAME TIX lor sale $10 272-8813 
TUNE BUILDING, 00 OUR BEST AS SM friend 

CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
WITHOUT THEM I IIIII A TEAM IN KEEPING OUR BUILDING BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA'S-Mike 1699 IN GREAT CONDmON AND HEIDI WHATS HE GOT THAT I AIN'T 
................................................................ 

COOPERATING WITH ONE ANOTHER GOT? HES GOT YOU, THATS WHAT LOST: PURPLE AMETHYST EARRING I NEED SOME VANDERBUILT TIX. 
AND WE'RE PROUD TO SAY THAT WE HES GOT : MATT MARK-surprise! Thanks lor always being in Library Auditorium. Call BETSY-­CALL DON-1744 
Why go to ADWORKS lor your resume? ARE JANrrORS OF LAFORTUNE. ................................................................ there. I love you, Nance 
£27731 
Come to us! ZOINKS!! 
I WANT YOU TO SELL ME EITHER 2 

• Typeset quality : WELCOME MOM & MR LARKIN! IT'S TERRIE'S TYPING VANDERBILT OR 2 MARQUETTE TICK­
I CAI'I'f SEE! • Personal service GREAT TO HAVE YOU HERE, STEWART, FROM ONE COOL CE TO 287-1283 : Word processing available, ETS. CALL MARC AT 288-7105. THANK 
I'm blind wt> my glasses that I lost last • Lower prices LOOKING FORWARD TO A TERRIFIC ANOTHER, THANKS FOR THE Laser printer. Will do term papers, busi­nigh! between the JACC & the main • Money-back guarantee WEEKEND. I LOVE YOU, KIM : AWESOME PERSONAL. --PILAR ness letters, dissertations, resumes, foot­
YOU 
................................................................

circle. Silver prescription glasses in a Call Tim at 283-2101 to sat up an ap­notes and saving on disk. Reasonable blue case. pointment with the pros. To one WILD BP chick turning 20: KLM, WHAT DID MOM SAY? NOW ASK prices. Please call JOE x4642 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, ANGELA! You're DAD I 
PERSONALS 

the greatest! Love, A & P :YO! HELGA! You're more than a woman MARY CLARE WELCOME TO NO : I'LL DRINK COKE OR DIET COKE IF I BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355 to mel : Love ya blindly, : ROB SIX GORGEOUS BABES WE'RE SO HAPPY TO SEE YOU : Dxxx WELL FEEL UKE IT. STOP TEL­............................................................... from Vanderbullt coming lor game. LOVE, M & P UNG US WHAT TO DO IN THE PER­
FOR RENT 

Sanibel No tlx, no babaal SONALS BEFORE THE DRUIDS COME CPA..CPA ... CPA ... CPA ... CPA ...It's on Sanibel Help Improve tha ratlol TO ALL MY CIVIL FRIENDS, (HERE'S BACK. FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 277-~sway ... Sanibel II have tlx to Mil, call Don-1744 YOUR PERSONAL), YOU'RE 3097, 683-8889. AWESOME! --PILAR 

page 13
The Observer

Friday, February 19, 1988 

O
This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound® to the beach, the mountains or your hometown. ...-............;_For $49.50 each way, you and your friends 
Women's basketball 
Warriors look for revenge 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
It's amazing how much con­fidence a big win on the road can give a team. 
After upsetting then 17th­ranked Duke two weeks ago in Durham, N.C., the Notre Dame women's basketball squad is playing with a new sense of di­rection on the road. And it could not have come at a more crucial point in the season. 
The Irish (16-6) began a season-ending road swing Wed­nesday with an 87-69 rout of Cleveland State and travel to Marquette Saturday for a North Star Conference game. Five of the team's remaining six games are away from the JACC, the lone exception being a Feb. 28 encounter with DePaul. 
"Winning on the road at Duke gave us the impetus for the rest of the season," assistant coach Bill Fennelly said. "It gave us a lot of confidence that if we 


~in have a great G~ GR'~~HOUND
time when you ._ ., ~ . . ® go Greyhound. An leave the driVIng to us. 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greybound Lines, Inc., Trailways Lines and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Fare is eacb way per person based on round-trip purchase. Offer effective 2/15/88through 4/25/88. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. Greyhound also offers an unlimited mileage fare for $59.00 eacb way. Some restrictions apply. C) 1988 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
can win at Duke, we can win anywhere. It's an ACC school and it's a tough place to win." 
The Irish have won four of their last five on the road since a 79-59 loss to Virginia Jan. 4. That's a drastic improvement over the 3-4 mark the team posted the first half of the season away from the JACC. 
"We're at the point where we realize our last games are on the road, and we have to win them," Fennelly said. "We've sustained our play on the road better than we did earlier in the season. We're approaching it in the sense that we need to finish 22-6 to make the NCAA." 
As if playing on the road is not bad enough, the Irish also have to fight injuries during the stretch run. With Diondra Toney, Annie Schwartz and Carol Elliott out for the season, the team is down to nine players. Starting guard Mary Gavin is nursing a stiff back and forward Lisa Kuhns is bat­tling a knee injury. 
Coach Muffet McGraw gave the squad Thursday off to rest for the meeting with the War­riors (8-16) of Sister Maria Pares, O.S.F. Pares has a 17-33 record during her two years at Marquette and a 20-year career mark of 354-82. 
The Irish easily downed the Warriors 88-51 Jan. 26 behind the school-record 32 points of Heidi Bunek. 
Forward Patty Baker leads Marquette, averaging 13.2 points and 8.5 rebounds per game. Centers Heidi Ach (10.9) and Kerri Christiansen (10.7) round out the double-figure scorers for the Warriors. 
"We have to expect them to try something different defen­sively to shut off our inside game," Fennelly said. "They did better from the perimeter, especially in the second half, than we thought. We have to make sure Patty Baker and (guard) Kathy Schweiger don't get hot early." 
The Irish have won nine in a row from the Warriors, but Fennelly hopes to avoid a let­down with the prospect of the NCAA tourney looming over the Irish. 
"The main thing we have to do is not let down," Fennelly said. "We played them earlier in the year and beat them pretty bad, so there is a ten­dency to letdown. Anytime you play on the road and have the Marquette-Notre Dame riv­



Friday, February 19, 1988

page 14 The Observer 
a tired Irish team coming off ~~==========================================::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
we might have a physical let­down, but the kids handled this week very well." 
And a very weary Donoher was almost apologetic for trying to beat the Irish with a 
_§low-down game. 
Thursday's Results Notre Dame 59, Dayton 47 
Dayton (47) 

M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Corbitt  40  6-14  1-2  6  1  13  
Uhl  30  3-6  0-0  1  4  6  
McCracken  40  2-5  2-2  5  1  6  
Knight  39  5-12  0-0  4  1  10  
Springer  35  5-8  0-0  1  5  10  
Donoher  1  1-1  0-0  0  0  2  
Bradds  1  0-1  0-0  0  1  0  
Branch  5  0-0  0-0  1  2  0  
Robinson  2  0-1  0-0  2  0  0  
Howard  7  0-1  0-0  2  0  0  
200 22-49  3-4  22  15  47  
FG  Pet.  -.449.  FT  Pet.  -.750.  Team  

rebounds -2. Turnovers -15. Assists -13 (Corbitt, Knight and Springer 3). 3-point FG -Knight 0-1, Springer 0-1. Technicals -none. 
Tennis looks for surprises 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team takes its perfect record into a grueling weekend with matches at home against Northwestern, Iowa and Miami (Ohio). 
The 5-0 Irish meet Northwes­tern today at 3 p.m. Saturday the team has back-to-back matches against Iowa and Miami at 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. All action takes place at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Notre uame w111 be an under­dog in all three matches, but Bayliss' biggest worry will be Northwestern (2-1). Last year the Irish fell to Northwestern 7-2 and last fall they were downed 4-1. 
"All three schools are tough, but N othwestern is the best. They beat us badly last fall in a shorter match,'' Bayliss said. "Our strength lies in our depth, and that's an edge we lost in the fall. Hopefully, we can use it to our advantage in the longer match on Friday." 
The Irish also have seen Iowa earlier last year, losing 7-2 at 
home. Iowa (2-0) looks to face ••••••••••••••••••••••• 
the match today. Miami (Ohio) 
has yet to play this year but is 
predicted to be one of the top 
Mid-America Conference 
teams. 
Mter a two-week layoff, Bayliss is glad to have the ser­vices of Brian Kalbas back. Kalbas, the No. 1 Irish singles player, is coming off a groin injury. 
·'I would say Brian is about 90 percent right now," said Bayliss. "But he is a real com­petitor and I don't expect his game to drop at all." 
Up to this point the men's ten­nis team has faced relatively weak teams. But for the rest of the season the Irish will predominantly have the role of underdogs. 
"So far this season has been delightful," Bayliss said. "But this weekend we play three matches in less than two days, and on paper we're underdogs in all of them. But we've definitely made a jump this year. We can compete. It's at home, it's Junior Parents Weekend. With a big crowd be­hind us we can look for 
suprises." 
The night belongs to Michelob: 
Exceptionally smooth Michelob in convenient 

12-packs 
©Anheuser·Busch, Inc Sf lows, Mo 

b;::;;:::;;:::;;:::::;;:;;:::;;;;;;;=:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;=:=:=:=======~~~==~~~~~~~===============Jl 
"I felt if we had any chance to win we had to slow it down some," he said. "It's hard on our team because we haven't had this type of game plan for any other game and it's hard for the other team to play at that pace, especially at home. 
"We were successful at slowing the game down, but we just couldn't hit our shots." 
Notre Dame (59) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Stevenson  34  4-9  0-08 08  
Voce  37  7-9  4-4  9  2  18  
Robinson  13  3-4  0-0  .  1  3  6  
Rivers  37  5-15  6-8  5  1  18  
Fredrick  33  3-7  2-2  0  3  8  
Singleton  3  0-0  1-2  1  0  1  
Nanni  1  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Nicgorski  10-0  0 -0000  
Connor  5  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
T. Jackson  10-0  0-00 00  
Ellery  1  0-1  0-0  1  1  0  
J. Jackson  6  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Paddock  28  0-1  0-0  4  1  0  
200 22-49  13-16  29  11  57  
FG  Pet.  -.449.  FT  Pet.  -.813.  Team  

rebounds -b2. Turnovers -13. Assists -16 (Rivers and Fredrick 7). 3-point FG -Rivers 2-4. Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 27, Dayton 16. Of­ficials -.Dan Chrisman, Tom O'Neill, Eric Har­mon (all MCC). A -10,948. 

JOHN, 

HAPPY 19th B-DA Y To a man born to sit on the "BUSCH" MOUNTAIN. Have a great one! 
-The Fourp 
HOW MANY COPIES WOULD YOU LIKE? 
Whether you need 1or 100,000 
copies. you get them fast at 
Kinko's. 


kinko•s~ 
Great copies. Great people. 





Toilet 
. continued from page 20 
can see the dilemma. The offi­cial has to call something, even if it's after the first bucket. 
"We checked to see if the rule 
applied only when it inter­
rupted the flow of the game at 
a crucial time," said Conboy. 
"The officials have to call it 
even after the first basket. 
We're going to go ahead and 
keep making the announce­
ment.'' 
Once again, this appears to 
be a case where the NCAA is concerning itself with trivia when there are more pressing matters to be concerned with . Throwing streamers or toilet papers after the first bucket of the game is as much a part of college basketball as cheer­leaders and bands. Can you im­agine the scene in the Palestra in Philadelphia, where this tradition originated? Every game would start with a tech­nical foul, two if two Big Five teams are playing. 

Yes, the potential for injury exists. But when was the last time you saw anyone maimed for life when hit with or 
The Student Business Board 
(for Adworks, the Cellar, and Irish Gardens) 
is looking for a 
Ge~eral Manager 
IfYou are Energetic, Entrepreneurial, and Interested... 
We Want to Hear from You! 
Job descriptions and applications are available at the secretary's desk, 2nd floor LaFortune. 


The Observer 
Typesetting Service is accepting applications for the following positions: 
CONTROLLER DORM REPRESENTATIVES ACCOUNTS MANAGER ACCOUNTS PAYABLE/ RECEIVABLE CLERK 
Applications should include a personal statement and brief resume. Deadline for applications is Friday, February 26. 

For further information contact Chris Hasbrook at The Observer (239-5303) 
toilet paper? It takes pretty good aim to hit a player in the eye with a roll of toilet paper. 
When there are more serious problems within college ath­letics, the NCAA's toilet paper legislation leaves me raw. 
Here's a rule change that may come about if the NCAA Rules Committee passes it. Un­der consideration is a proposal that would give a player three foul shots if he was fouled on a three-point attempt that was no good. This makes sense. After all, why not trade two points for three? 



---------, 
Friday, February 19, 1988 The Observer page 15 



Kuehl, Herber bring winning hometown tradition 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The state of Minnesota is gen­erally regarded as the empire state of hockey. And when it comes to high school hockey in Minnesota, you can't get much better than Edina High. 
But when senior Bob Herber and junior Tim Kuehl left their hometown of Edina to attend Notre Dame, they saw someth­ing Edina had not prepared them for. Losing. 
At Edina, they never saw much losing. At Notre Dame, it was becoming a bad habit. 
"It was a little frustrating be­cause we had a losing team here, and I was used to playing on winning teams," said Kuehl. 
He certainly had not played on many losing teams in high school. As a wing at Edina High during his senior year, his team was tops in the state all year before being upset in post­season play. 
The quality of play at Edina was such that Herber, a junior wing for the Irish, couldn't make his high school team his senior year. 
"I didn't play junior varsity the year before, and about 120 guys tried out for the team," Herber said. "The coach said I was about the last guy cut. 
following year, having been recruited by assistant coach and Edina native Tom Carroll, the Irish had another losing record, at 10-19-1. 
After that season, Lefty Smith resigned to end his 19­year tenure as Notre Dame's hockey coach. As Notre Dame took its time deciding on a new head coach, golfing buddies Herber and Kuehl spent the summer swapping rumors (Schafer) instilled a new atti­tude. He was really excited about rebuilding the program, and that made us excited. He's really the gung-ho type." 
Schafer got the Irish off to the start he wanted, as Notre Dame held an 11-2-2 record by semester break. But Kuehl and Herber were not quite satisfied with their personal perfor­mances in the beginning of the season. 
said Schafer. "He was always

r-p====~~~==~lt Nl) AVE APTS. I effective, but he was even more effective when he went on that
1 l~arly Bird Special I 
spree." Herber, who was anything

1 Now· renting for Fall I 
but pleased with how he played 1 2 Bedrooms completely furnished I early in the year, also has 
emerged as a major force for I Sign up before break and Call I the Irish. He currently ranks lOth on the team in points with 
I receive a 1Oo/o discount 234-6647 I 
nine goals and 15 assists.

Tonight Open 9: 30-1: 00 
"I was really disappointed DJ'S Dave Brueneil and Marty 
with my first half," the junior said. "After Christmas break, 



t~~!::!.~-~._P_!.~:!.~.~.E.~~~-~!.':~¥-1 
Crowe will start off the 
I felt I had to play better, and

weekend with great tunes, 
I have." 
HOORAY K.K.!!

so stop up and DANCE! Schafer knew Herber was going to be a key player for his 
21st

Friday Open 9:30-2:00 team. 
"I liked him from the start,"Join us for more of the same IRTHDAY ... TODA Schafer said. "He's one of our 
as Ann Seifert and Tom Tisa fastest skaters, and he's trying his hardest all the time. He
play your favorites. GO FOR IT 
serves as a catalyst for the rest Saturday Open 9:30-2:00 NAKFOOR! of the team." 
With Kuehl and Herber pro­

DJ'S Greg Harris and Rick Reuter viding outstanding second will have you dancing all night! halves, the potent Irish offense 
ALL OUR LOVE has averaged almost seven

Sunday Special Open 12: 00-6: 00 
Mom, Dad, goals a game. And Notre Dame has won 14 straight to run its
Pizza Pizza Pizza Pizza 

Cheryl, Holly, Joy, record to 23-2-2.All you can eat---$3.00 The Edina natives are doing
B 
more than their part to carry the winning tradition of their hometown over to Notre Dame. 


Andrysiak won't return 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame quarterback Terry Andrysiak will not return to the Irish football team for a fifth season in 1988, Ath­letic Director Dick Rosenthal announced Thursday. 
The 6-1, 184-pound Andrysiak had applied for a fifth year be­cause of his limited play as a freshman in 1984. 
"Our policy on granting ad­ditional years of eligibility has not changed," Rosenthal said. "We do not plan to red-shirt athletes on a wholesale basis, but we will continue to consider extra years based on medical hardship." 
"In Terry's case, there is not sufficient medical evidence of physical injury in his freshman season in 1984 to merit the ex­tra season being approved." 
rStephen 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY! 
Love, our Crazy Family 
in Pass Christian 
"The talent's great there. back in Edina. Kuehl, who had played on the Edina's got one of the top pro-"We played in a summer same line as senior captain grams, and they've won the hockey league together and Mike McNeill last season, had most state championships." went golfing together, and we'd trouble adjusting to his new 
Herber instead played for a hear rumors and stuff," Her­linemates. He scored Notre junior B team in Edina, and he ber said. "We found out late in Dame's first goal of the season, helped that team win a state the summer and didn't know but then went into a scoring championship. Then he went to what to expect." drought. Notre Dame, where he did When Notre Dame finally an­But the line of Matt Hanzel, make the team, but the Irish nounced the new coach-former Brian Montgomery and Kuehl were not enjoying too much Irish player Ric Schafer--the has been a hit for the Irish, par­success. players still did not know what ticularly in the second half of 
"The fact that we were losing to expect. It's hard for anyone the season. did give me a chance to get in to know much about a guy In fact, a recent scoring spurt the lineup," Herber said. "It who's been coaching in Alaska by Kuehl, who leads the Irish seemed like people were used (at Alaska-Fairbanks) for the with five game-winning goals, to losing here--it was like a last several years. has placed him second to losing environment." "It was unpredictable. We McNeill in total points on the 
Notre Dame went 12-21-1 knew we had talent, but there team (18 goals, 21 assists). A during Herber's freshman were so many question knee injury will keep him out year. With Kuehl aboard the marks," said Kuehl. "He of action this weekend. 



r---·--------·-----------1 "He was really on a roll," 
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 19, 1988 





Weekend's Events 
FRIDAY, February 19th 
(Telecasts,:B:00-11:00 p.m., 
11:30 p.m.-Midnight) 
12:00Noon Luge, Doubles First and Second Runs. Cross-Country Skiing, Men's 15 Kilometers. 2:00p.m. Alpine Skiing, Women's Combined Downhill 4:00p.m. Hockey, Czechoslovakia vs. Austria 4:15p.m. Hockey, West Gennany vs. Soviet Union 8:00p.m. Curling, Semifinal 8:15p.m. Hockey, United States \:"S. Norway 

Jansen, Americans fall again 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta -Speed skater Dan Jansen fell in a race for the second time Thursday, passing from tragedy to deep frustration at a Winter Olym­pics he had dedicated to the sister who died on Valentine's Day. 

Jansen, America's world sprint champion, was on his way to what could have been a medal, maybe gold, in the 1,000 meters when he tipped over on the outside edge of his right skate on a back straightaway of the final lap. 
He fell and sat on the ice in disbelief, rocking back and forth with his face buried in his hands. Coach Mike Crowe and teammate Nick Thometz helped him off the ice, although he was unhurt physically. The pain was mental, and it was ex­cruciating. 
After he left the ice, he embraced his fiancee, Canadian speed skater Natalie Grenier, and cried in her arms. 
He fell, too, last Sunday, just hours after his sister died. That time he fell on the first turn of the 500 meters. 
It was an Olympics in which America's best just wasn't good enough as wind played tricks with the schedule and Eastern Europeans toyed with the opposition. 
Winds that reached 72 mph and blew one skier right off the course forced postponement of the women's downhill and team 90.-meter jumping. America's best bet in the downhill, Pam Fletcher, was gone anyway, breaking a leg when she ran into a volunteer worker during warm ups. 
Bonny Warner had the best finish of any American luger in an Olympics, but she was more than two seconds behind win­ner Steffi Walter, who led an­other East German Olympic sweep. Warner was sixth, 1.875 seconds away from the bronze. 
Saturday, February 20th 
(Telecasts: Noon-6:00p.m., 
7:00 p.m.-Midnight) 
12:00Noon Two-man Bobsled, First and Second Runs. 
12:30 p.m. Alpine Skiing, Women's Combined Slalom. 
1:00 p.m. Biathalon, Men's 20 Kilometers 3:00p.m. Hockey, Finland vs. Sweden Curling, Finals 3:30p.m. Ski Jumping, 90 Meters 4:15p.m. Hockey, Canada vs. France 7:00p.m. Speed Skating, Men's 1500 Meters 7:15p.m. Figure Skating, Men's Free Skate 8:15p.m. Hockey~.Poland vs. Switzerland 
Sunday, February 21st 
(Telecasts: 11:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m., 7:00 p.m.-Midnight) 
11:00 a.m. Figure Skating, Dance Compulsories 12:00Noon Two-Man Bobsled, Third and Fourth Runs. Cross-Country Skiing, Women's 4 x 5 Kilometer Relay. 2:00p.m. Speed Skating, Men's 10,000 Meters. 
2:30 p.m. Alpine Skiing, Men's Super Giant Slalom Disabled Skiing, Giant Slalom. 
3:30 p.m. Hockey, Soviet Union vs. Czechoslovakia. Freestyle Skiing, Aerials. 
7:00 p.m. Hockey, Austria vs.Norway. 8:15p.m. Hockey, West Gennany vs. United States 

ND 61

ironwood_ 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
11':2."> NOFnt1 IRONWOOD DK. SOUTH .m:NO, IN -+ri635 



The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS (2) 
Personal statements are due Monday by 5 p.m. in the Observer office. Questions may be addressed to 

Marty Strasen at 239-5303. 

U.S. 
31 (Dixieway) Nllftllln Roseland-(Acms from Holiday lm) 212-1433 


BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. : ~ ~ AUTHORIZED DEALER BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES--SERVICE-PARTs--ACCESSORIES • CLOSED SUNDAY & MONOAY • OPEN TUES 9AM • 7PM • OPEN WED· SAT 9AM-5:30PM Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks Parts & Service Available Students $26.95 ROSELAND 277-8866 with ad cut-out 135 DIXIE WAYS.  
. or more years of 4 A person Wlth.fouran e-vnect a median · d cat10n c "'.t'college e u f $32 270/year.mcome today o , /frut: ~r~4;~~~--h~-~;~~~ew--~·!117'·-· ~~;jro~:;tj1~1f!1 a1 iS considered one of 5. Northwestern Mutu.es to work for in the ten best comparo America. ~ut'.~~fi~ ~~ii;;:J:~· !BUE or FALSE? Get the rest of the answers-Attend a presentation by representatives of the Beckley Agency on Careers with Northwestern Mutual Life: -Thursday, February 25 -7:00p.m. -The Morris Inn-The Alumni Room Or, see your placement office for information on interviews to be held Friday, February 26. ~~~ The Quiet Company® -NO  



Tile Ceflllio! PANCAKE HOUSE 

f~ Refo&ciUUd 
Our Specialty 
Extra Large Oven Baked 
APPLE PANCAKES! 



$100

No Restrictions No Coupons OFF Needed 
Thru Feb. '88 

Open 7 Days a Week at 6:30 A.M. 
NOW, FOR Al,J!YIITED TIME! 


FREE 
TANNING SESSIONS WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! call us today! 


~~UQ
~ ~1985 FUN TAN. 1NC 
UNIVERStTY COMMONS/ ST. RD. 23/ PHONE 272-7653 
WELCOME NO JUNIOR PARENTS 

Special All 

This Month! 
• 



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
Friday, February 19, 1988 page 17
The Observer 



Griffee, epeeists hold key to stopping Illinois 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO The team will travel to Sports Writer Champaign, Ill., tonight and participate in a quadrangular "This is one I'd pay money meet along with Purdue, Mic­to see." higan State, and, of course, Il­
As Head Coach Mike DeCicco linois. has plainly illustrated, the "Illinois is going to be the big men's fencing team is ready to meet," DeCicco says. "Illinois take on arch-rival Illinois, and has six seniors in their nine­is literally saving the best for man starting squad, and like last. us they're undefeated." 
JUNIORS. 
Find gifts for your parents at the 
COUNTRY HARVESTER~ :a!H~:r~i;~rgifts _.afJiJ 
*The Bookstore Alternative ~ 


HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY 

NIGHTMARES! 
Brian (lggy) & Dave (Spike) Doherty 
Sorry, No Stripper 

THE PHILADELPHIA INSTITUTE 

Dem.andfor our graduates exceeas supply 2to1. 

The Philadelphia Institute• is The Institute for Employee Benefits Training The Institute for Tax and Fiduciary Management The Institute for Paralegal Training {with specialties in International Trade Law, Litigation Management, Real Estate Law, General Practice, Public Law, and Corporate Finance and Business Law) The Law School Transition Program The London Summer International Legal Studies Program, and much more. 
A New Class of Law and Management Professionals Over 7,000 college graduates have used our 4-month graduate­level programs to qualify for positions with some of the best law firms, corporations, banks, and financial institutions in the countty. Our placement service will help you find a job in the dty of your choice-a service backed by a unique tuition refund. 
B.A. required. For information and a free booklet entitled OPTIONS: New Careers in Law and Business, return the cou· pon or call 1-800-222-4758. In PA, call (215) 567-4811. 
We'll be on campus Mar. 2 
Contact your placement office to arrange for an interview. 
Nationwide; lifetime Job placement GSL Loans (up to S7,500) Housing Merit Scholarships 
THE PHILADELPHIA INSTITUTE 
Approved by the American &r AssOciation 


We've put more than 7,000 college educations to work. 
Indeed, both Notre Dame and "There's no one on the squad Illinois have fenced the same who wants to win more than teams, and both stand without Griffee," DeCicco says. "He a loss. For the last three years, can hardly wait for Saturday however, Notre Dame has to come around." beaten the Illini. 
"It's going to be very close," DeCicco says. "They're the only team that stands between us and an undefeated season. 
"We're going to be ready. It's going to be a back-and-forth, seesaw battle the whole way. Illinois is a great team but we can fence well, too." 
Illinois' veteran squad is in the epee division, where the team may be the strongest. Miles Phillips, Tim Hensley and Joe Socolof are all talented 

Todd Griffee

fencers and will be likely to give the Notre Dame epee Griffee, 26-7, has beaten all squad a very challenging three Illinois epee fencers at match. least once over his career, and 
Todd Griffee, the captain of will be looking forward to doing it again. 
FRI. FEB. 26th 




NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: $10.00 $8.50 
$2.00 DISCOUNT: ND-SMC STUDENTS! FACUL TV/STAFF 
Wochners 
Kases 
This simple rhyme of ours contains 
Much love for the Woidats and the Keanes 
We greet the HeiseJs and Kellys too 
To celebrate JPW! 
Love, 
Melissa, Patti, Nancy, Megan, Jane, and Anne 
~~ 
"Illinois is going to be 
tough," says Griffee, "But we 
should be ready for them. We 
should win if everyone bears 
down. They're definitely not a 
team to be underestimated." 
Griffee is one of the few fen­
cers on the team from the South 
Bend area. A native of Niles, 
Mich., Griffee attended St. 
Joseph's High School and 
learned how to fence at Notre 
Dame. 
''Todd is one of the few kids 
we've had from our communi­
ty," says DeCicco. "He started 
with us as a novice and now is 
among the top epee fencers in 
the country." 
At the NCAA tournament last 
year, he finished 12th in the na­
tion. He was only a touch away 
from finishing eighth, which 
would have made him an all­
American as a sophomore. 
His career record is 48-7 
(.873), which is second on the 
all-time winning-percentage 
list for epee. 
Adding to his accomplish­ments, he finished second in the Great Lakes Tournament last year, where a senior from Wayne State beat him out for the title. 
Now Griffee has the added responsibility of being captain of the epee team. He is in charge of virtually all the train­ing of the epee team, and he coordinates the starting lineups with DeCicco. 
"Being captain puts a lot of responsibility on a person," says Griffee. "You have to set the example all the time, and to give it all you've got." 
"Todd's being captain is a credit to him and his talents," DeCicco says. "He:s a very competitive epeeist." 
Griffee is also a member of the Army ROTC Ranger pro­gram, which also requires a lot of time. He has to balance being captain of the epee team, an Army Ranger, and, of course, a student. 
As for Illinois, Griffee holds a special position. He is captain of the epee squad, in which Il­linois is the strongest. 
"Todd Griffee right now is capable of winning three bouts for us," says DeCicco. "He holds one of the keys to beating Illinois, as does the entire epee team. As captain, he is espe­cially important. 
"If he can go through Illinois undefeated, it will really help him in his attempts at the NCAAs. It would be a great kickoff for the National Cham­pionship." 


page 18 The Observer Friday, February 19, 1988 


Irish head to Dearborn for rematch with Wolves 
-~----~-----~-----~-----~---~-~­
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF 

BARTENDER 

FOR THE 1988-89 SCHOOL YEAR NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE PICKED OP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTMTIES. THIRD FLOOR LAFORTUNE. APPLI<!:ANTS .MOST BE 21 BY SEPTEMBER 1. 1988. 
DEADLINE IS MARCH 11, 1988 
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwewwwww~wwwwww 
By STEVE MEliARGEE Sports Writer 
It happened so long ago that it might be hard for some fans to remember when the Notre Dame hockey team last lost a game. But the Irish remember it vividly. 
Michigan-Dearborn ended Notre Dame's eight-game win­ning streak on Dec. 5 at the JACC, as the Wolves sprinted to a 5-0 lead before eventually winning 6-2. 
Since that tiine, Notre Dame has won 14 consecutive games, shattering the previous school record of nine. But this weekend, the Irish are being thrown back to the Wolves. Notre Dame plays at Dearborn at 7: 30 tonight and Saturday night. 
"Air Force, Dearborn and Windsor are probably the toug­hest teams on our schedule," said first-year Irish coach Ric Schafer. "Dearborn's ,a very well-organized team, and they're deadly on the power play." 
Times have not been so good for Dearborn lately. The Wolves have lost 11 of their last 20 games since beating Notre Dame. 
But while the Irish have feasted on the likes of Dayton and Villanova during their streak, Dearborn has paid the consequences of having a much tougher schedule. Teams that have swept Dearborn include Alaska-Fairbanks and U.S. In­ternational, teams that are in about the same position as the Irish in the college indepen­dents poll. Fairbanks ranks 

ALUMNI

Ill 

SENIOR 

:z: 
1­

second, while U.S. Interna­tional is in a virtual tie with Notre Dame for fourth. 
"They've lost a couple, but they've played some strong teams," Schafer said. "They're going to be strong." 
Dearborn still leads the American Collegiate Hockey Conference with its 8-1-1 con­ference record. The Wolves have an overall mark of 20-13-3. 
Notre Dame (5-1-2, 23-2-2) ranks second in the conference. If Dearborn wins a single game over the Irish this weekend, the Wolves win the regular-season title. The ACHA Tournament on March 4-5 at Dearborn will determine the conference champion. 
The Irish, who have been playing wihthout sophomore wing Bruce Guay for the last two weekends, also lose the ser­vices t>f classmate Tim Kuehl this week'end. Kuehl, who has torn cartilage, ranks second on the team in total points, while Guay is fourth. The two have been key figures in an offense that has averaged 6.9 goals per game. 
Notre Dame's defense will have to find a way to stop Dear­born's diversified attack. Joe Burton, Tim Osburn (22 goals, 36 assists), Tim Osburn (27,30), Mike Humitz (13,38) and Ron Duda (29,21) all have 50 points or more for the Wolves (Mike

McNeill is the only Notre Dame _._._,..,..,..,...,.....,.....,..,..,....,....,...,.._.._._.._._.._,.,.~ 
player with over 50 points). Joe Mocnik is not far off the pace, with 29 goals and 16 assists. 
The Wolves also have been impressive at the nets. Regular goalie Mike Klavon allows just 
3.63 goals per game, and Dave Church is averaging 4.14. 
Notre Dame's Lance Mad­son, however, has been even better. Having played in 23 of Notre Dame's 27 games, the 
••••••• ••••••• 0 •••••••••••••••• 0 0 0 ••••••••
:.:0:.:.:.:.:0:.:.:.:0:.:.:.:.:.:.;.:.:.:~:·:·:.~.:.:.:.:.:.: 0:0:0:0:0:0:0:.:.:0:0:• 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 ••••••••• 0 •••••••• 
•••••••• 0. 0 ••••••••• 0 •••• 0 ••••••• 0 •••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 ••••••• 0 0. 0 ••••••••• 0 ••••• • • • • • 0 0 0 • 0 •• 0 ••• 0 •••• 0 • 0 0 •••• 0 ••• 0 • 0 •••••• 

sophomore is allowing just 3.6 goals per game, and has turned back over 88 percent of the op­posing shots on goal. 
McNeill has engineered the Irish offense all season long. The senior captain has scored 23 goals and recorded 38 as­sists, and had NHL scouts watching him two weekends ago in the Notre Dame-Air Force series. 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 








~!:CLUB 
WELCOME 
JUNIOR PARENTS/ FRIDAY 
50~ DRAFT SEAGRAM'S GOLDEN t1~ 

SATURDAY 
MILLER 
GENUINE DR~n" 75,.. 
OR l.I"TE • 60TTL.E 1­
TANQUERAY'N'TQN(C $12i 
25 C. P\Z'ZA SL.\C S !!! 
"Last time we played them, we beat them clearly once (5­3), and they beat us clearly once," said Schafer. "It was a clear split. They're ahead of us, and with a split they'll stay where they are. 
"We've got an edge in our recent success," Schafer con­tinued. "That gives us a certain degree of confidence as we en­ter each game." 

~************************~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~. Saturday, March 5 ~ ~ ~ _.. at Theodore's ,/) 
I ~ 


~ . ~ ~ $200 GRAND PRIZE!!! ~ 
(/



!*******Sponsored by SUB ~ *! 
Interested acts should contact Maura (x2745) or Mark (xl184) by Feb. 19. 

Friday, February 19, 1988 The Observer 

~camPus 
Friday 
3 p.m. Tennis vs. Northwestern University in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 4:30p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Maximal Subgroups of Algebraic Groups," by Donna Testerman of Ohio State University in Room 226 Computer-Math Build­ing. 
7:30 & 9:30p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Something Wild," in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Saturday 
8 a.m. Law School Admission Test in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
9 a.m. Tennis vs. Iowa in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
4 p.m. Tennis vs. Miami in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Sunday 
1:30 p.m. Music Department presents William Cerny on piano in the Annenberg 
Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Fried Clam Strip Roll 
Batter Fried Perch 
Fettucini Alfredo 
Cheese Enchiladas 


\ 

Don't 
\ 

\ drink 
~~ and 
tAD drive
~ 


Berke Breathed 
Bill Watterson 
Saint Mary's 

Fish Parisienne Deep Dish Vegetarian Pizza Vegetable Kebobs Deli Bar 
page 19 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 X marks It 5 Say "hello" 
10 Bivouac 14 List of feasts 15 Make a 
comparison 16 Butterlne 17 US literary 
notable 20 Resort 21 Spheres 22 Thoughts 23 Rose's love 24 Unless In law 26 Work by 17A 33 Plant of a 
clone 34 Single 35 lt. resort 36 WWII 

command 37 Liquid measure 39 Fr. department 1=-+-+--+-­
40 Recorded 
proceedings 42 -and outs 43 Crayon 45 Work by 17A 49 Ratio words 50 Loud sound 51 Footwear 54 Sports group 55 Couple 58 Work by 17A 62 Lease 63 Type face 64 Eastern VIP 65 Leg joint 66 Accumulate 67 Gala affair 
DOWN 1 Bribes 2 Support 3 Ancient Gr. 
theaters 4 Young child 5 Halo 6 Having wales 7 Makes do 
(with "out") 
8 Always In poems 9 Explosive 
10 Friendly 41 Stir up 43 Muscle 51 Tree's 


contraction skin 44 Tanker cargo 52 Apparent 46 Paris suburb 53 Fr. river 47 Stands on 54 Louise or 
edge Turner 48 Tantalizes 55 Coin 
The Far Side 
56 Determinate amount 57 Frightening 
creature 59 Epoch 60 Gypsy 61 Ump's kin 
Gary Larson 
© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
02/19/88

All Rights Reserved 
11 Lily plant 12 Tableland 13 Utensils 18 Automaton 19 Pugilist's 
weapon 23 Exist 24 Not any 25 Roman 
highway 26 Pay the tab 27 Certain cover 28 Act the ham 29 Untrue 30 Wild ass 31 Mlle. Plat 32 Musical work 37 Elevator 38 Division word 

t., 



s 
orts 
Irish outlast Dayton 59-47 

By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
In the Dayton lockerroom after the game, Flyers head co­ach Don Donoher threw his empty can of 7-Up toward the garbage can 15 feet away. The toss came up short, just as most of his team's first-half shots had and just as his slow­down strategy had. 
. Notre Dame used Dayton's first-half futility and some strong second-half inside scoring from Gary Voce to take a 59-47 win from the Flyers. 
Anthony Corbitt hit a 16­footer, his only field goal of the first half, to pull Dayton to within three at 17-14 with 6:29 left in the half. From then on, Dayton's shooting went frigid, and the Irish defense put the heat on. 
Dayton's Negele Knight hit a layup with 3:59 left for the Flyers' only hoop for the rest of the half as the already low­flying offense was totally grounded, while Notre Dame scored 10. Not exactly a run, but enough to add some pad to its lead. 

The Observer I Robert Jones Dayton shot just 38 percent Gary Voce (54) scored 18 points as Notre Dame stopped the Dayton (8-of-21) in the first frame, Flyers 59-47 In a slow-paced game at the Joyce ACC Thursday while the Irish hit an even 50 night. 
Flyers play at a snail's pace, crawl away with 12-point loss 
NCAA's concern: toilet paper You may have noticed the new announcement at men's basketball games telling fans not to throw toilet paper, or anything else for that matter, onto the court. The an­nouncement stems from a new ruling by the NCAA on fans throwing streamers, toilet paper or whatever on the court, traditionally after a first basket. Under the new rule, the referees must assess a two-shot technical foul against the head coach of whichever team's ·fans threw the streamers and award the ball to the oppo­nents.  
Dennis ~ Corrigan .· ~. ~ Sports Editor  
"We called Ed Stipes, of the NCAA Basketball Commit­tee, to get a clarification on the ruling," said Notre Dame Assistant Athletic Director Missy Conboy. "He said the officials had no discretion. They had to call the two-shot technical. When we announced it the first time, the officials didn't know they had to call it. We called Stipes to tell him that." The first thing the officials have to do is determine just whose fans threw what. Obviously if 300 rolls of toilet paper come from the corner of the Joyce Center, the offi­cials are going to whistle Digger Phelps. But suppose just a few come sailing down from midcourt? Then whose fans threw what? Was it an Irish fan or an opponent's? You see TOILET, page 14  

By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
In the middle of last night's evening nap, a basketball game broke out at the Joyce ACC. 
The game was slow, to say the least. The 32-31 Notre Dame advantage in the second half was a frenzy compared to the 27-16 halftime score. Maybe the late (8 p.m.) start was keeping the players up past their bed­times. 

It was Dayton's game plan to keep the pace slow. They ,. succeeded, but didn't win the game. It was a moral victory, of sorts, but for Notre Dame ... 
"It was a win," said Irish guard Joe Fredrick. 
Dayton tried a few fast breaks in the second half, but was too, you guessed it, slow for David Rivers and the Irish defense. 
"They (the Flyers) wanted to play ball control and eat some time off the clock, then look to score," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "They didn't want to get into a blow-out type situation.'' 

Why did the Flyers chose to go with a game plan that made the court look bigger, the ball seem heavier and the basket much higher? 
The reason was player per­sonnel. The Flyers are not only very inexperienced, but were also hurt by injuries. From 3:59 to go in the first half untill6: 11 remaining in the second! half the Flyers scored one point. 
And although the Irish only scored 10 in that span, it was enough of a lead to put the Flyers out of the contest.. 
"We felt we had to slow it down if we were going to have any kind of chance," said Dayton head coach Don Donoher. "We were successful in getting into the slow pace, but we just couldn't get the ball to go in." 
The Irish schedule consisted of three games (now three vic­tories) in the last five days, in­cluding a Tuesday night trip to New Jersey to face Rutgers. Even with the wear and tear, the players were not thrilled with the pace of last night's contest. 
"We thought they might try to go at us," said Gary Voce, ''figuring we were tired with three games in the last five days." 
Apparently, the Flyers thought differently. 
"I was pretty disappointed," Fredrick said. "I was hoping for a fast-paced game. I knew a lot of the people on the team, and a faster game would've been more fun." 
Although it looked as if the teams were afraid to shoot in case they might wake up the crowd, the Irish were pleased with the victory and even found some positive aspects in the slow pace. 
"I think we handled the sit­uation pretty well," Phelps said. "You could play this way in the first round (of the NCAA tournament). You don't know who you're going to play. You might get someone who plays that way. It's good to face them during the season." 

percent (11-of-22),ledbyDavid Rivers' 4-of-7 (12 points). The Flyers added 12 turnovers to their list of problems on their way to the team's lowest point total of the season. 
"Playing against that type of offense, to be up by 11 at halftime was really someth­ing," said Notre Dame head co­ach Digger Phelps. "I thought we played some pretty good defense and created a lot of their missed shots and turn­overs." 
The drought continued when the second half began, as it took Dayton another 2:54 to score, which enabled the Irish to grab a 33-17 lead. Notre Dame con­tinued to widen the lead and a Rivers-to-Mark Stevenson alley-oop ended in a dunk and a 42-25 Irish advantage. 
Dayton slowly got back into the game as Corbitt, Knight, and Ray Springer pulled the team to within 10 at 49-39 with just more than five minutes remaining. But that's as close as the Flyers would get the rest of the way. 
Corbitt recovered from a 1­of-6 first half to hit 5-of-8 second-half shots and finish with a team-high 13 points. 
With Dayton beginning to find the range, the Irish may have been in some trouble had it not been for the inside play of Gary Voce. The senior co­captain scored 12 points in the middle seven minutes of the second half, including two three-point plays to pick up a Notre Dame offense that was looking for a lift. 
Voce also grabbed nine rebounds. 
"He's developing just like (Donald) Royal did last year at about the same time as an inside scorer," said Phelps. "He's getting into a groove where we can count on him for a basket or to draw a foul in­side. He's just getting more confidence each game." 
"I've gotten more confident and I'm at the point in my career where (Phelps) wants me with the ball," said Voce, who tied with Rivers for game scoring honors with 18 points. 
While the game was no aes­thetic masterpiece, Phelps said he was not about to be fus­sy. 
"I'm just happy to win," he said. "I was worried with how we would respond to three games in five days. I thought 
see IRISH, page 14 


Each day, The Observer contains in-depth interviews, concise quotes, and guest columns from Notre Dame's top administrators, coaches, and student leaders. And when famous political figures, celebrities and clergy visit Notre Dame, The Observer's staff of over two hundred students covers.the campus to bring you the news. 
• 'lo •-i" 
~ -·---. ~ ~-~ --~--..-. ~ ~....~;-.. ~­
Join Now and receive The Ob­server for just $40 for the next academic year. In a few short days, you can have The Observ­er in your home. 
Name _______________________ Address ---------------------•
City ____State __Zip __ 
Simply detatch and mail thi card and we'll bill you or sen this card along with a check o money order to: 
The Observer P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 


' • __.. _ --• -• ·--' --> -· • , ..-••• -•• 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--------------------~ 


• 

orzn 


·· ···.> ·--founded 1888 
Brought to you by the Sorin College Centennial Committee 

The Sorin Experiment 
As part of the campus versial. Suspicious Victorians expansion in 1888, Notre Dame questioned this radical departure took a radical step in building and wondered what adolescents the first Catholic college would do with such freedom, but dormitory in America with they were assured by the private rooms. So radical was Scholastic that the rooms would the plan that one account says be "large enough to encourage Father Sorin sent the president, study and at the same time Thomas Walsh, on a bogus trip small enough to discourage to Europe in order to start the visiting." "The privileges of project. Sorin Hall" were also limited 
By the 1880's, the dream that only to juniors and seniors of had begun with a crude, wooden exceptionable academic status chapel in the wilderness was and character. rapidly expanding and needed a One of the many legends transition into a true, Catholic behind the conception of the University. The Main Building hall has it that Father John was becoming overcrowded and Zahm, the innovative vice­officials wanted to attract older president of the university, students and expand the Law originally proposed the single­School. Students from grade room dorm. However, Rev. school through college studied, Thomas Walsh, the more slept, and ate together in a conservative president, was communal system at the Main hesitant about such a radical B u i I ding. The plan for a move. Zahm then appealed to dormitory with single rooms was Sorin, the retired president and revolutionary in Catholic education and highly contro-see SORIN, page 2 


Notre Dame's Law School founded in 1869 came to prominence in Sorin Hall under its colorful Dean, William Hoynes. With flair, imagina­tion and hard work, the "Colonel", as he preferred to be known, built up the quality and size of the school during its thirty-year occupation of the first floor. 
Fr. Andrew Morrissey, Sorin's first rector and later University President, credited Hoynes with the Law School's foundation and Hoynes typically took the praise. Hoynes reputedly read the dictionary to maintain his eloquence in the classroom and to complement his high profile style of dress. Fellow Sorinites, fascinated by their ostentatious Dean-in-Residence, were amused by his public appearance and eloquent language and often played practical jokes at his expense. In 1905, after being drenched by water tossed from the third floor, Hoynes pleaded with such effectiveness that a porch was soon constructed for his protection. 
Hoynes came to Notre Dame as an undergraduate in 1867 before becoming the editor of a New Jersey newspaper. He later attended Law School a t Michigan, where he received his LLB in 1872. University Presi­dent Fr. Walsh invited him to Notre Dame in 1883 to become the Dean of the Law School. 
"Colonel" Hoynes w a s instrumental in the provision of the 'moot' court room on the south side where his students could practice and he himself lectured there for hours daily. 
The Law course was extended from two to three years in this early period. Though not a Colonel while in the service, the students chose to give him 
this title because he took responsibility for the training of the military on campus. These became known as the "Hoynes" Light Guards. 
In 1923 the newly appointed dean was Thomas F. Konop and and the Law School had moved from Sorin to its new premises in Hoynes Hall, now Riley Hall of Music. Hoynes retired to Sorin. His stately appearance and ro­bust ways were noticeably absent as he retired. When teased about the use of a cane, Hoynes shrugged it off and never again used a cane, though it was 
see HOYNES, page 3 
In 1969 Sorin Hall split from the University of Notre Dame in a dramatic protest gesture against University policy and established itself as a self­sufficient and independent College. The protestors were few in number and their words were louder than their actions. The words they utilized were 'Sorin College' and they were etched on to a small wooden plaque and raised to the roof of the Sorin porch. 
The idea of identifying the hall as independent of the University did not manifest itself until the late 1960's. The image however, had always rested on the minds of Sorin's residents who were for the most part, 'worldly and experienced' upperclassmen and graduate students who enjoyed being set apart. 
The new entity, based on the tradition amassed from the hall's vast history, was modeled after the Ivy League's conception of the independent college in a University. 
The withdrawal of Sorin failed to make the I o c a I headlines and was a relatively small event compared to some of the other happenings on the campus at that time. The 'Sorin College' sign was erected and a few lighthearted speeches were given in front of the boisterous and 'newly emancipated' student body of Sorin College. 

This centennial year the 'College' status will b e recognized formally with the 'Sorin College First Annual Com­mencement Exercises.' College diplomas will be distributed to the graduating seniors after they complete a commemorative day of classes on Saturday April 9th. 



Sorin College 
Paid tor by sor1, 
·...z..--:......!..~-----~~~-:::~--~·-'---....1·---~-~-~ 
Viewpoint Paul Fenlon: Last 
Paul Fenlon, professor of English, 64 Burke, the d 
"Paul Fenlon lived in the room I live in now. He had it decorated like a year resident of Sorin hall and last of if he would: Victorian drawing room with pictures all over the walls. The plaster was the Notre Dame bachelor dons, possessed the Departll'chipping and the wall needed a new coat of paint, but Paul would not hear a "genius for friendship" according to wanted meol it. While Paul was on a family vacation in Pennsylvania pictures were those who knew him. you ever b 
taken of the room from several different angles, the walls were done over, When Fenlon died on November 7, anything?'the pictures were put back according to the photos, and Paul Fenlon never 1980, the long tradition of bachelor Woodrow l noticed." -Monk Malloy professors living in student halls ended. Democrat, a Accqrding to Edward Fisher, Fenlon's that." The 
"We live in a place :with walls that should speak. In the research for friend and biographer Paul Fenlon first victory was this feature, we have stumbled upon some of the better known moments as came to Notre Dame as a student in 1915, job at First recorded by writers down through the years. We owe-much to those who "when Father John W. Cavanaugh was he worked f~ have documented the history and to those who helped present it today in a president, Knute Rockne was a chemistry "I hated' fashion that is accessible to many." -Joseph Me Kenna , Rector professor, the electricity in student Paul Fenlon 
residences was turned off at 10 p.m., and -~ the South t -
tuition, room, and board was $400 a most at hom year." He lived his first years in Corby ,. There was a1
1

Hall, but took up residence in Sorin, at were studen
"Sorin Hall is the 
age twenty, during-World War I. He these visits,paradigm, the model of what became one of the first underclass
a College and University the young 1 
residents of Sorin, originally a senior with no reasituation should be. It is an dorm, when Father Cavanaugh pr<;>mised again offereintimate hall where a small 
number o~ students and faculty diplomas-to any seniors who chose to English. serve in the war. Many senior Sorinites, Fenlon re·
can live together." -James Carberry '50 
Father John O'Hara: Cardinal 
. '.~-, 

"Living in S o r i n John O'Hara, Prefect pf Religion, Noctre Dame, through his promotion of symbolized being a Senior. I Sorin Hall resident;:~ and fol;ttlder of th~ practices such as frequent communion, was ji,lst glad to get a high "Religious Bulletin"(!\vas born in 1888 just confession, Novenas and visits to the enough grade point average to 26 days before the >birth of the ,~Beg~ Grqtto. c ,c .. < c , . _ ···c . _ live in a tower. room.:: -" W~Jt dormitory that wotjlld later become his Rising at 4.30 a.m., , he awoke people · Collins home.as _pri!'!St .and teacher. ·.As. a, spiri~ iorJhe early Ma~.§ \}ncl,, gjspens~.d cqmmu­
tual director and president, O'Hara has nion and confession while his teaching written his name indelibly in the duties included Spanish, Commerce and ! UI1iversity history books through his Religion. Until 10 p.m. he received "My,dosest~fl'iends today. promotion of traditional Catholic wor­numerous students who sought his are still the friends I made ship on campus and his support for the guidance from an old leather chair in during my years at Notre '"Fighttrt'"~lti'~tf ~-wotnii rr··teams of the Room 141. Known for his statistical Dame.r -Walter Lee Fleming period. ;J;., analysis of, religious practice on campus '40 1 John O'Hara entered the 'graduating by counting the number of hosts consumed class of 1912 and in August of his senior at daily communion, O'Hara released year, signed up as a novice {rt the Holy figures on :a regular basis to show that Cross order. After a 1924 niove to 141 the religious life of the campus was Sorin, the new priest became:~nown as a improving.; From only a few communi­
"I enjoyed every yearI 
counselor and confessor and b:fficiated at cants in 1916 the average daily commu­day, and minute at Notre the obligatory morning aJ\d evening nion increased to 1469 in 1937-38. Sorinite coa, Dame,. and my Senior year in and Rockne
prayers as well as Saturday and SundaySorin Hall was the peak of Mass. According to Fr McAvoy, O'Hara's O'Harais religious fervor also shared a dee my student life experience." -biographer, this energetic young priest combined with the Fightin' Irish football each other. 
Edward J. Cronin '38 helped develop the religiot:{s spirit of spirit that developed under fellow the Rose Bo· 
spacious classro()ms in the south he~ing the telltale squeak of the door eloquent," Hoynes "calleSorin wing of Sorin'~vfirst floor. This opening on one such night, a third floor every name in the calenda area included a moot court room prankster dumped his bucket's load in the previously recorded. HE
The Porch: 

from page 1 
designed to give\the law students usUal manner. This time, however, the ancestry in a half dozen la leader of the Holy Cross practical experience. victim happened to be Professor Hoynes, 
t Biggest
congregation, for help. The The second floor rooms on the Dean of the Law School and first floor Hoynes was loved by intrigue thickened when Fr. north side became known as resi,(ient. According to Lahey,the "Colonel" Dame so concerned U n Sorin ~nt Walsh to Europe for a "Professors ' Alley" since they was "immaculately clothed for some formal decided immediately to 1 science-(:onvention so that Zahm, were the home. of a series of affair in Washington Hall," and the the future protection of t as acting president, could com­bachelor profe$sors. In the bu~~et's deluge drenched Hoynes "to the leaving... as a perpetual n mission and supervise the design early days of the hall, the imiltediate discomfiture of everyone mistake." Therefore, ace of the hall. Sorin blessed the basement was the center of concerned.... His fist raised to high account, it was built as a 
Umbrella On 
Campus

cornerstone on May 27, 1888 as recreation where students were heaven" never before "so angry or so protect Colonel Hoyne! the climax of the school's able to play cards, billiards, and celebration of his sacerdotal piano. It al!b contained a Built in 1905 as an umbrella for the golden jubilee. The day's reading room a~ a smoking room eccentric professor "Celonel" Hoynes, festivities also included a where a debat~g society and a the Sorin Porch has added a unique Solemn High Mass in Sacred "Browning Clulf' met. In later dimension to the activities of the Heart !Church, a banquet, mili­years, the ~'basement was hall, providing a gathering place for tary displays, and fireworks. partitioned if\-o rooms that hall photographs, mail deliveries, Two ~ys later, Walsh returned, housed Rockmffand many other talent shows, and impromptu beauty shocked to see the inevitable great Notre Dame athletes. contests in the spring. expansion of the campus. Du~ to the st:cess of the So~in During the 1930's, the legendary
[' 
Expenment a:~d the rapid rector Rev. John "Pop" Far I e y :)'he original building of 60 expansion of th~ university, the personally distributed the mail hereroomsiwas completed that year, north and soti(h wings were three times daily, often sniffing theand stUdents moved in on January extended in 1SQ7 adding forty envelopes for perfume and teasing the12, 18$9 after Father Sorin held more rooms and 1nearly doubling recipients about their contents. Anti­dedication ceremonies in the the residentialkl(capacity. The war demonstrators attached the "SorinchapelJ~f St. Thomas Aquinas on infamous pore~ was tacked on College" sign to the front of the porchthe first floor. J.E. Cusack, a later in April Qf 1905, but the in 1969 when Sorin seceded from Notre memb~r of the first football original plan ftif a four-sided Dame to protest University policies inteam or' 1887, had the honor of structure with fo~r entrances and the Vietnam War. Until recently,the firs_t room pick because of his an enclosed qua~'fangle was never Sorinites lounging on the porch heldhigh academic standing. 
completed. Nevertheless, the mock beauty pageants by flashing Sorijn Hall also housed the Sorin Hall exp~ment in single-numbered cards to rate the co-eds first G&tholic Law School in room residenc~ allowed Notre passing by. It has also been the site of 
~::1tTnW~~~J~fn~~--?fi~~'"'""ft~~fttft'fc~ilk. ,m~~~ii~~~~~~tfth~~"c_P~~~--:r.Uli~,:­
movedf!rom its cramped quarters university, co etitive with the Even more legendary is the story of in the Main Building to the more 'c best .colleges iq ~htH'tation.-...-. w~-·itsronstruction. ,coo·.·,..;··.·' 


Professor Paul Fenlon 
unsure of their academic status, jumped at the chance for a guaranteed diploma, thus opening up -room for juniors in the dorm. 
After graduation, Father Joseph 

The Victorian style of a Sorin room :in the 1890's. 
f~ 
v 
Answers to 'Sorin Trifia' 
'~.;~ 
ISlJ,j ·tz kp-e,; '8L S!OJJnL ·zL :< CHI){:lO}I CJlUU)f. ·9 l{S[l!M TZ l1"l''l ·a •1'\11!15 ·u •l"!ll•no::> ·s ; . Ojl!A!ld ·zz anqeuO(] '9L hJ!SJW•l!::> ·or ;;-...qns ·t li>ll() '6-p;ljOlJ '£

+'IJ'IUOYj ,: L~-' .u1ap~n"fl, ·~r. ' WII"Z 'Ot 1001! puv awN "t( . ~lis ·s "'"1 ·z ; alfOOJ<Wil "6l UOSJallal!::> ')I"!) "£L tpl0d '/; po!) 'L 
The popular but poorly documented story behind the porch was narrated by Rev. Thomas Lahey in his biography on Colonel Hoynes. According to his account, "in those less refined days," it was a favorite "indoor sport" of residents to occasionally dump buckets of water from the second and third floor windows onto people leaving by the front door for the evening. After Tbe current 


' J>agl's 2-.' 
<'oll(•g(' Frida.\, h.·hruar~ Jl), II.JSX 
of the Bachelor Dons The Moving Statue 
n of studies, asked Fenlon soon became friends with two other young The Statue saga began one intellectual creeps" of Sarin and The Sorin rector by this time re to stay on and teach in teachers, George Schuster and Clarence morning in 1952 when the the "nerds of Walsh." The had reached his limit and of English. "My father Manion. Said Schuster, "Paul Fenlon pedestal which held the bronze conspirators allegedly took the placed the statue in hiding. to get out", he said, "'Did had a genius for friendship." He kept figure in Sorin was found vacant. statue and buried it in a sand This measure was eventually of a teacher doing in close touch with Manion, Schuster, and Months later, intensive official trap on the golf course. When nullified by the insistent pleas I answered, 'Dad, look at others his whole life. His door was investigation had failed to finals neared the pranksters of the students who wanted to ilson!' He was an ardent always open to all comers, and friends provide any clues as to the were forced to improvise a see the statue back in Sorin Hall so he had no answer for knocking were always interrupting the whereabouts of the statue. Then conclusion to their jest. They but the Homecoming weekend of er Fenlon won, but his conversation . one day there was a glimmer of publicized the return of the then -1962 saw the sculpture descend Paul's Uncle got him a Fenlon lived in Sorin for 64 years as a hope in the form of a postcard . notorious statue in local bars and from the heavens via helicopter of Chicago where student, teacher, and then as a retired from France... "Visited the theaters and arranged to have and land at the Library nine months. professor. His room in the last years of Louvre today. Paris swings at the final telegram sent from construction site. From there, every minute of it!" said his life was on the first floor, in the night... Father Sorin." For Washington. On the big day jubilant students escorted the On weekends he came on northeast turret, nearest Sacred Heart weeks postcards and telegrams they retrieved the statue airborne-qualified statue by to the place he felt Church. found their way to the Golden (which had since been stored in chariot to Sorin where 
the Notre Dame campus. Recently, the first floor St, Thomas Dome from departure points that an off-campus garage) and celebrations continued. 
extra bond when his sisters Aquinas Chapel has been renovated dotted the globe. The worldly brought it to campus where a Again the statue disappeared at Saint Mary's. During with money raised in the the Paul statue visited such events as the small group of students had from campus when Sorin seniors ther Burke could see that Fenlon Memorial fund. Each Spring, coronation of Elizabeth II, the appeared. Instead of putting the took their friend home and in n was facing up to a job Sorin Hall residents gather to honor Kentucky Derby and the figure in a cab the jokers carried 1972, Rev. James B,4rtchaell 
• 

sense of vocation. So he Professor Fenlon at the Fenlon dinner to Indianapolis 500. their burden to the back of tracked down the work of art Paul a position teaching bestow honors upon current Sorin residents __ Explanations for the stat~e's Cushing whereupon they and brought it back to Notre whose lives follow the example of unexpected sabbatical are yelled,"Hey Sorin," and then Dame. The figure stayed under 
ed to Sorin in 1920, and Notre Dame's last bachelor don. numerous and have ranged from proceeded to run away the locked surveillance of plausible to just short of undetected. They had completed Burtchaell for nearly ten years. coherent. One of the leading the perfect crime. In 1983 Sarin H411 was accounts portrays a tale of renovated and the statue was
Virtues 

collegiate practical pranking..It There were several sightings returned for good. As a seems that in the early winte~; of of a short still figure with precautionary meas~re the 
order to guarantee the availability of 1952, two Dillon undergraduates fishing pole in hand, stiffly sculpture was filled with the Eucharist to the players before the 
collaborated to provoke an resting against the bow of a concrete and soldered to-the floor game. According to Fr. Hope, Rockne in altercation between the "anti~ rowing boat on St. Mary's Lake. with iron rods. 
a press conference once referred to O'Hara. 
as his 'first assistant' and gave his 
fellow Sorinite the credit for the success 
of his 'teams. In response, O'Hara 
authored a religious survey to show that 
football was an aid to religion "by using 
up idle time and lessening physical 
temptations by its discipline". 
I Ie founded the "Religious Bulletin"· and used it as a means to promote religious practice on campus. After criti­cizing jazz music in one issde, the residents of Badin produced coplfs of the "Irreligious Bulletin" in responje to the priest's remarks. O'Hara wa~the last 

O'Hara
~r. John Notre Dame Prefect of Reli~ion and ~·h Knute Rockne. O'Hara moved to Dillon before becoming,Univer­were of the same age and sity president and later qardinal p respect and friendship for O'Hara. An altar is dedicated to John The priest even traveled to Cardinal O'Hara in Sacred Heart 
wl in 1925 with the team in Church. 
d the guilty ones pranksters --an intriguing story but hard-lo members of the water-throwing r, and a few never swallow. •1 brigade. Others, who thought of the ! questioned their peace and comfort they could enjoy in 
Sorin Trivia 
nguages." However, the extensive research of the good old summer time, smiled...." Philip Hicks ('80), a former Sorin resident, This article affirms the tradition of 1. " Made Sorin Number One." 
everyone at Notre suggests that this account is highly plaus­the water pranks and dates the 2. Which departinent was housed in Sorin originally?iversity officials ible. He verified the incident with refer­construction in April. 3. Father O'Hara held the post of of Religion. 
~rect a porch "for ences found in the Dome and Scholastic and In 1906 , the Dome links Hoynes to 4. What was thetnickname for Sorin's basement in the early, 1900's? entering and dated it to March of 1905. The April 1, 1905 the porch and names the pranksters 5. What was the'original (though rarely used), name for S<:frin ""''"'"'r of a tragic Scholastic announced, "Preparations have with a satiric cartoon which narrates Hall? ing to Lahey's already begun for the building of a porch for that a Sorin resident by the name of 6. Sarin's most famous resident of yesteryear ; of umbrella to Sarin Hall. Upon erection of the scaffold­MacFarland, "who has been here long 7. Because of a ~water bomb" , what fixture was added to sbrin? 
-+

from the Sorin ing many remarks of regret came fromthe enough to know all the vicissitudes of 8. Which brothers and first floor residents composed the Nqtre
time and students at the University, 
Dame Victory March? ·. 
apropos of the Sarin Hall porch, had 
9. What is Sarin's screaming mascot? · the following dream. He was walking 
10. What was Knute Rockne's major? , it seemed, along the path leading to 11. What artifa~ was consistently stolen from the hall? j
the hall when in a haze there 
12. The four unique architectural features of Sorin . appeared in the windows immediately 
13. What famo~ author visited a Sorin professor in the 192(l's? 
above the entrance the shades of 14. What two btl:ly parts are polished on the statue of Fat~r Sorin? 
Mullen, Cornell, Confer, Gardiner and and · ·,; other old-time disturbers with pitchers 15. What al~e passing leader recently lived in Sorin rif11? 
in their hands. With mournful 
16. What famous talk show host lived in Sorin? ·' shakings of the head they 
17. What was distributed daily to students on Sarin's front trch? 
contemplated the new porch." As 
18. This hall is ~med after a former Sorin "pop"ular recto_ MacFarland approached the porch, 
19. Who desig~ both the Administration Building and S6fin Hall? 
the scene faded from view, and "he 
20. Who was tl-j acting Notre Dame President at the time Sorin heard softly dying out: was built? ' . ;)
'It was not like that in the olden 
21. What weeklY. sporting event occurs weekly with reside~ and 
days, University P~sident Monk Malloy?in the days beyond recall, 
22. Sorin is the~rst American Catholic dormitory with -·-J-­When everybody got ducked that rooms. ;t ­
lived in Sarin Hall.' " 23. Which President was sent to Europe to enable the cons~tion of In 1908, the Dome celebrated the Sorin? • _· 
porch with the following ballad: 24. Whot floodn Sodn bo"'' the h;ghe,t «>ling,? ..;.:---.
The Old Water Bucket 
::::::::::~---~L~~~Jil~H;ow:~~;~P,;~~~;~;,,are "'the 
fcml! tettJTTecrton··-presents· thtm­., .. }{_QYJl eS. ·· ·' ··~~·A~r~~irgffj~~~~ ~afs t~n~~e~ to view; from page 1 until two days later: when The one-armed police forcer the need·ed;-At thtiiage ot eighty, he ·Haynes came in with 11 bill from watchman named Dorin, appeared in !:,j full military a doctor and denied that 1he had And e'en the dear co-eds whom uniform at a ;Memorial day ever seen one. Fr Burns ex­some of us knew. parade and though not fit to plained that someone ~n the The wide-spreading tree and the make the marCh, none could doctor's office must hav~ gotten porch that stood by it, refuse him the opportunity. He the name mixed up and the The reason for which was that was annoyed that two boy scouts Colonel accepted this solution. cataracts fell accompanied him on either side Still refusing health care, he And deluged our Colonel, at least on his short march to the finally was forced into hospital mighty nigh it. cemetery. and died in a comatose state on Alas, for the bucket! That porch When Hoyne$ lay ill in Sorin, March 28, 19JJ without making was its knell. Fr Burns had to have the doctor any will. ·
I Sorln Hall. 

Knute Rockne of Notre Dame: coach, actor, psychologist 
In every sense of the word Knute Rockne was an All­American. 

According to his many biogra­phers such as Lovelace, Brand­field and Stuhldreher, Rockne's character dictated his success. Moose Krause who met Rockne in his freshman year could surely attest to this fact: '". . . It is true that certain men are created or born to leadership, Rock surely was one such."' It is also said that he dominated everything and everyone, whether on the football field, in the classroom, at a coach's convention, a business meeting or a social function. He has been
• called a zealot, a fierce perfectionist who analyzed every phase of his trade like no other had attempted, a psychologist, a supreme actor, and undoubtedly an extraordinary coach. 
Born Knute (pronounced Kanute) Kenneth Rockne in 1888, he was raised in Chicago after immigrating at the age of four from Voss, Norway. He was a mischievous child who no doubt lived up to the anecdotes told of him later. Failing to finish North West High School in Chicago because of excessive absences, Knute worked for 4 years before being convinced to attend Notre Dame in 1910, a college of which he had hardly heard. 
After qualifying as an under­graduate, he worked a dozen jobs one of which was a waiter at the university dining halls to pay for school. Because the dormitory was cheaper than an individual room, Rockne moved into Brownson Hall for his first two years. His roommate was none other than Gus Dorais who would later help him perfect the forward pass. In his third year Rockne moved to the more prestigious Corby Hall, a peren­nial choice of upperclassman at the time, and took up chemistry. He would later graduate magna cum laude. Finally, in his senior year Rockne moved to the basement of Sorin Hall, then known as the "subway." Legend has it that Rock's steel grid over his window was loose. Being an American businessman, he charged Sorin Hall residents for post-curfew entrances and exists. 
Rockne's innovative skills carried over to the gridiron. By playing on the scrub teams off and on and for Brownson Hall for his first couple of years, he learned how to compensate for his small size by using his head. In the summer of 1913 before his senior year, Knute and Gus Dorais obtained jobs as life­guards at Cedar Point, a resort on Lake Erie. They packed a couple of footballs and began 
practicing the forward pass with Gus as quarterback and Rockne his receiver (timed at 4.6 in the forty). The forward pass up to this time had been frowned upon due to its difficulty. That fall after perfecting the pass in organized practice, Dorais and Rockne displayed their newly found skills in a 35-15 victory over a greatly favored Army team. Old fashioned football had met its death. 
Four years later in 1918, Rockne's skill in understanding, analyzing, and innovating the game, landed him the head coaching job. In thirteen years as head coach, Rockne won 105, lost but 12 and tied 5. 


Athletes who lived in the basement (clockwise from top left): Paul Hornung, Knute Rockne, Johnny Lujack, Steve Beuerlein, Stuhldreher and Miller of the "Four Horsemen", and Edward "Moose" Krause. 
Athletes: At home in the subway 
It is no accident that the first name on the 1888 Sorin Hall roomlist was J. E. Cusack halfback on the first Notre Dame football team of 1887. For since that time Sorin has become home to some of the greatest players a n d coaches in college football history. 
.Over the years, athletes seemed to migrate to the basement of Sorin, affectionately referred .to as the "subway" by its residents. In fact, the "subway" housed two of the most legendary men of college football. The immortal Knute Rockne shared a room in this pipe-lined den of Sorin with his famous cohort, Gus Dorais. Dorais and Rockne went down in the record books together in November of 1913, when they revolutionized the use of the forward pass to trounce the heavily favored Army cadets 35-13. 
During the glory years of the 1920's, Rockne won 3 national cham pi onshi ps, produced 11 All-Americans, and compiled the highest winning percentage in the history of football. T h e subways reached its heyday came during these years which Rockne coached. During this time, the subway housed stars like Hunk Anderson, Fritz Slackford, Roger Kiley, Buck Shaw, Frank Reese, Eddie Anderson, Harry Boujan, Frank Caughlin, Johnny Mohardt, Harry Mehre, and Chet Wynne. 

One of the few freshman ever to live in the Sorin "subway" was Harry Stuhldreher. Stuhldreher roomed here in 1921 with veteran quarterback Chet Grant, the 138-pounder who was ten years Harry's senior. Stuhldreher must have learned a great deal from his aged mentor because he went on to quarterback the 1924 "Four Horseman" team, probably the most glamorous team in all of football history. Stuhledreher was not the only "Horseman" to live in Sorin. His backfield partner, Don Miller, the 161-pound right halfback, lived in room 301 during the 1924 school year. 
As if th~se great legends were not enough, Paul Hornung, Johnny Lattner and Johnny Lujack, three of Notre Dame's seven Heisman winners, have also lived in the hall. In addition to being a football player of the highest caliber, Lujack also won monograms in basketball, baseball, and track while at Notre Dame. Edward "Moose" Krause, another resident of the hall, is also remembered for his all-around contributions to many Notre Dame sports. A football player while in school, "Moose" went on to become Notre Dame's athletic director. 
All the glory is not confined to the past however. 
Recent greats that have lived in Sorin include Rocky Blier, Ken MacAfee and Steve Beuerlein. 
The Notre Dame Victory March 
After successive road trips to on the pian~ in Sorin's first floor and one of the best organists in other College song, it is also the A A b0 d Bl0 1· gton in . ~ead!f\K room while .12.h..n the east After hearing of their basisfor1llany highsc:hoolfight 
·o··.·e·.··r··.P_ ·b·a n •. _s_._n·....~·.Sm_·•.•.·.··_h·_·o_ S ..·his.·····.room _Sof\gs. :·:During••Yjorld· }"'a~}t, ....a
tMi~~.:~.~-~.-~.'._:_f,....... .•..•.~.·.t· ...•.:_._a_n·······l·adl..•.••.,_t_f•.e_.o·.·.·.a_.h•. ·o··-·.•·.·.• _._.nea..f.•.·.·.~.·.·.··,··.'.•.•..·.9····_·t·_o_·w·.....·•.o•.•.~.·.· ···.· retu;rned:··-·to ···a crea,H()Ilr·••:Jthe····prof~ssor :.illyit~--•• sdiJresidents, decided that -~t:~~rrif~i~f~i~ll"!~ ~ e ~!t~~t{fi>~~~~~~i1~i;a?t~~:.~.~g~i~Nf~6!~~lhew;::~~~!~£~ Nbtre Dame deserved to have Shea brothers met again, the rendition was loudly praised by Notre Dame according to a Press itJ own school song. reading room was occupied and all who attended the impromptu Release of 1958: . · nael,... the... elder...brother. Michael, an, .accomplished , redlaL .. .. ; ; ... ''Father, the big .";ffensive 
t· 9o~~~;;~t!{'f::~~~::,'"'~r~!J:~~·.;;i;·~lfffi;&~~.;c·~· .:1 
~raduate student iri"'hi$tory and ' lyrics w~re joined to 'create The ' Adtpinis.t~ation Buildmg du~mg tonight the bands a~e pl.aymg. 
~~:~~~i~i~~;t;~f~1~1fi~~:~~~l~~~l~~~M~~
limericks. 'lt' with Professor Wilham nahonal and mfernahonal fame. but The ~otre Dame V1ctory Michael rehearsed the tune Hammond, his organ instructor Paraphrased more than any March."' 





