
Irish Extra 
Notre Dame at Pitt 



FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1988 

. the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Pozner, Donahue talk on U.S./Soviet relations 
Pozner: U.S. Donahue: 
and U.S.S.R. U.S.S.R. has 
are 'condemned changed to coexist' significantly 
By CHRIS DONNELLY By CHRIS DONNELLY 
MATT GALLAGHER MATT GALLAGHER 
Senior Staff Reporters Senior Staff Reporters 
The following is the transcript of an The following is the transcript of an 
exclusive interview with Soviet jour­exclusive The Observer conducted with 
nalist Vladimir Pozner, conducted Phil Donahue shortly before his discus­
before his televised discussion with Phil sion with Soviet journalist Vladimir 
Donahue. Pozner. 
The Observer: How do you think The Observer: How do you feel 
U .S.!Soviet . relations have chahged U.S.!Soviet relations have changed 
since you began these forums? since you began these forums a few 
Vladimir Pozner: There has been a years ago? 
dramatic change over the past two and Phil Donahue: Well, two years ago 
a half years. When I began addressing when we did our first space bridge 

~~-tt*~\., 
~ 
• 
I 

Amencans m 1980, we were m full con­nobody believed G lastnost. (Theyfrontation. When I came to the U.S. and thought) it's another Russian trick, the 
met people here, I found fear, even whole audience will be made up of hatred and certainly very little sympa­KGB; they'll rig the audience. It was thy for what was happening in the So­apparent to us. We were worried about 
viet Union. I think the change relates that too. I didn't want it to look like we 
very directly to the changes that have had been duped. I'm proud too. 
happened in the Soviet Union -the So we sent our people over there. We 
changes that seem to be Gorbachev's brought our own interpreters, and we 
changes. went up to people on the street (and
Today in America there is an enor­to question what you have always felt
By REGIS COCCIA asked), 'Do you want to be involved in 
mous interest in the USSR even com­Senior Staff Reporter was right," Pozner said. a U.S.!Soviet (discussion) ? ' Older 
pared to last year. The questions I get "To a great extent that's what we're people said 'no', but most of the 
at press conferences and during lec­Willingness to change traditional at­doing today," he said, noting the new younger people said 'yes' and then we tures seem to be more knowledgeable titudes and understand each other are Soviet policies of perestroika started. 
questions. I see a pretty positive kind keys to U.S.-Soviet relations, talk show (restructuring) and glasnost 
of change. host Phil Donahue and Soviet commen­(openness). "It's a great painful Every criticism we leveled at them 
tator Vladimir Pozner told an audience process and it includes our attitude during the debate aired in the Soviet 
The Observer: As a private citizen last night in Notre Dame's JACC. toward the United States. Union. We asked about: Sakarov, who 
how do you feel these changes of Gor­Both men received standing ovations "Without that kind of painful honesty, at the time was still in Gorky; Afghanis­
for their remarks on improving rela­it's just about impossible, I think, to
bachev will be lasting changes? Do you tan; Poland; KAL (the downed Korean 
tions between the two superpowers. hope for a better future," Pozner said. 
think the framework is in place? jetliner) . It all survived. Nothing was Pozner: That's very hard to say. I Each stressed the need to change old "My message to you is I hope you cut out. We really believed it. Now, two find it difficult to look that far ahead. attitudes and think about the future. have the desire, the concern and the years later, more and more people I think that deep down inside both "If there's anything important in the strength to reassess what you have believe it. This is real. We don't know 


world, it's to question what you have 
see POZNER, page 7 

always thought to be unquestionable, 
Saint Mary's Senior Father·Daughter Weekend 
Schedule of Events 
Friday, October 7 9:00·10:00 a.m. Late Registration, LeMans Hall Lobby 
4:00-6:00 p.m. Noon-1 :50 p.m. 
Registration in LeMans Hall Lobby Picnic Lunch, Haggar Terrace-Parlor 
8:00p.m. 2:00·3:00 p.m. 
NOOMC Theater presents "Antigone" in Career Exchange in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 3:00p.m. 
9:00-11:00 p.m. University of Notre Dame vs Pitt large screen 
Cocktail Party in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall televisions, Haggar Parlor and Game Room 
9:00-Midnight 

Saturday, October 8 Casino Night, Angela Athleti9 Facility SMC 
8:00a.m. 

Sunday, October 9
Golf Tournament, NO Golf Course 
9:00a.m. 

Tennis Tournament, Angela Athletic Facility 9:00·10:30 a.m. 
SMC Continental Breakfast, Clubhouse 
9:00a.m. 10:30 a.m. 
5-K Run, Angela Athletic Facility SMC Celebration of the Liturgy, Church of Loretto 
see DISCUSS, page 7 see DONAHUE, page 8 
Father/Daughter Weekend commences 
She also feels this will bring the 
By JENNIFER WOLK 
seniors closer together with
News Staff 
their class and with their fat­The Saint Mary's College hers. 
sixth annual Senior Fa­Jennifer Burke, who coor­ther!Daughter Weekend com­dinated the Liturgical Service mences today with registration for Sunday, arranged to have from 4:00-6:00 p.m. The only members of the senior weekend will officially kick off class participate in the choir with a cocktail party at 9:00 and folk group. Katy feels that 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. events such as this will make 
According to Katy Burns, the weekend a special one for head coordinator for the everyone to remember. She weekend, "This will be a also said that there will be 255 weekend for fathers and fathers attending this weekend daughters to get together, to which is a higher turnout than spend some time without dis­they have had in past years. 
tractions and to enjoy each "Everyone has gone out of 
other's company. I really want their way to help plan this people to take home some good weekend. I know it is going to memories when they leave." be special," concludes Katy. 


page2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 

No-class Miami 'Canes need Irish education 



Derrick C. Benn, son of Clyde Benn and Janice Benn of Midwest City, OK has been awarded a $1000 scholarship by the National Science Foundation through NSF's Minority Graduate Fellowship Program. Bennis a junior, majoring in Mathematics. Benn said, "I'm glad for NSF's encouragement. I just wish every kid could get that kind of support." 
Two gay Indiana inmates who petitioned the court to be married have been fined $2,800 by a Hendricks Circuit Court judge for wasting court time and misrepresenting the law. Phillip Shroyer, 30, and Todd Reed, 20, are in­mates at the Indiana Department of Correction medium security prison in Plainfield. Shroyer is serving a 20-year term for robbery. Reed is serving a 15-year burglary term. They claimed a constitutional right to be married, al­though Indiana law prohibits marriages of two men or two women. 
OFINTEREST · 
Seniors meet at Pep Rally at Pitt at Station Square at 7 p.m. tonight, at Mario'sBlue Lov's on South Side after Pep Rally, and at Permanies at midnight. For more in­formation, inquire at Senior Class Office. -The Observer 
JPW Executive Committee is now accepting 
applications from all juniors. Applications available in 
Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor LaFortune Student 
Center or from Chris Boron in 241 Pasquerilla West. Due 
Friday, October 14th. -The Observer 
Need a Ride? The committee for the transportation Board of Trustees report has submitted questionnaires to all undergraduates. Please fill them out and return them to designated a:r:eas today. -The Observer 
Seniors Sign-ups for Chicago Trip Wednesday, October 12 are today and Monday in the Senior Class Office. -The Observer 
The NO Preprofessional Society is sponsoring a tour of Memorial Hospital's Heart Institute, including the Open Heart Unit, on Monday, October 10 at 3 p.m. If in­terested call Lynn at 283-3194 by Sunday to reserve a spot. 
-The Observer 

Hawaiian Beach Party Dance tonight for Logan Center volunteers from 7:30-10:00 p.m. St. Mary's volun­teers meet at Holy Cross Hall at 6:40 and 7: 10 for ride. 
-The Observer 

The Philippine Club will be performing their native dance, the Tinikling, at Fieldhouse Mall from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. -The Observer 

General Assembly Simulation of the Model United Nations Club will be held Sunday, October 9th from 2-5 
p.m. in Room 124 Hayes-Healy. Mandatory for those who want to attend out-of-town conferences. -The Observer 
Tutoring in Accounting will be offered this Sunday night in Room 124 Hayes Healy from 7:30-9:00 p.m. -The Observer 
Issues '88, Notre Dame's weekly political forum in sponsoring a discussion on the '88 election with Professor Peri Arnold and others, Sunday, 12:30 p.m. on WVFI. -The Observer 
Open House at Siegfried Hall, Saturday, Octobe_r 8. Watch the Pitt game on big screen TV, have a half-time cookout, and celebrate mass with Father "Monk" Malloy after the game. -The Observer 
Music from Bach, Mozart, and Telemann head up a special concert by the renowned Ars Musica tonight, 
8:45 p.m. in Washington Hall. Free admission. -The Ob­server 
Design Editor ...................... David Roth Etc. Designer ....................... Tim Irvine Design Assistant ........... Janice O'Leary Typists................................. Val Poletto Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Molly Schwartz .............................................. Sue Barton ...........................................Paul Jackson ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee News Editor ................... Matt Gallagher SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demet Copy Editor ................... Ingrid Schmidt Irish Extra Copy Editor .. Marty Strasen Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Irish Extra Layout ...... Annette Rowland Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Patrick Zande ........................................... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Layout .................. Moira Fox Photographers .. .. .... .. .. .. . Jennifer Sewall Etc. Editor ........................... John Blasi ......................................... Rob Regovich 

Tille Olllener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tille Oblerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tille Olllener is a member of Tille AuocDied Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
have to res ect them for their taunts and in-class. 
WE'D LIKE TO

Wish your friends a happy 
REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS

birthday with Observer 
MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

)Mt advertising. ~ 
lHE CONSTITUTION
·n1c \\\x.is we liv(' tr.·

0 Call 239-6900 C 
'··; ~ 

;ad<lptedby 

ILEWI!i liAl.ANTIERE 
fran the play by JEAN ANOUIUI 

costume and scene~ by UNOA H-WIGLEY lighting by TI«JMAS W.. WHIPKEY October 5 • 6 • 7 • Bitt 8:10 October 9. itt3:10 O"Laughlln Auditorium Box Offlce ii!B4-46ii!6 
1A NotrE Dame/Saint Mar-y's TheatrE production Ipresented by Saint Mary's College Department of Communication lit TheatrE 
Nobody is going to miss the game in Notre Dame Stadium next weekend, but a lot of people have missed the point when it comes to battling archrival Miami. 
The bottom line in potentially the biggest col­lege football game this year is : respect --you get it by earning it. 
The University of Miami's football players have a bad reputation for showing no class on the playing field. They proved it when the Fight­ing Irish played them last year. I know; I was there. 
The Hurricanes exhibited cockiness unbe­coming for any athletes. Remarks to downed players about their mothers are truly tasteless. Head Coach Jimmy Johnson is notorious for run­ning up scores when the game is clearly uncon­tested. 
Miami's football fans are equally obnoxious. It was uncomfortable enough watching Notre Dame lose miserably last year in the Orange Bowl, but insults weren't warranted. 
This gives people here the idea they should hate Miami. That's very understandable. But I can't understand why Notre Dame students and fans should feel they must imitate Miami's team to beat it. 
The anti-Miami t-shirt campaign on campus recently has been feverish enough to put our presidential candidates to shame. Read any of them lately? They sport very clever designs, but most of their slogans can't be printed here. 
"Beat the Rush --Hate Miami Now" was one of the earliest. Newer ones play off the Miami "U" logo. Some suggest Jimmy Johnson has a deficiency in anatomical areas. Others are more direct. 
Notre Dame Coach Lou Holtz wrote an open letter asking for student cooperation next weekend. He made an excellent point about Notre Dame's student body by noting its com­petitiveness, intelligence and intense desire to succeed. But that's not all; we also demonstrate closeness and caring for other people --except, it seems, Miami. 
Lou is right when he says we should show our intelligence by showing respect for Miami. They've won 36 straight regular-season games and 20 on the road. Nobody does that without playing some good football. Luck just doesn't last that long. 
We should respect Miami's coach and team if only for their ability to play football. We don't 
Regis Coccia 

News Editor ML& 

suits. And they don't have to respect us for ours. 
Notre Dame's rich football tradition was more than 100 years in the making and it's still going strong. Legendary coaches Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian built a legacy of dig­nified champions at Notre Dame. Let's continue that tradition. 
Miami is a new kid on the block of major college football traditions like ours. Maybe they can't help lacking class. But we can. Don't think for one minute we can't lose the game this weekend or next or any other. Miami is a for­midable opponent who is not to be underes­timated. 
One thing; though, is sure to rouse the Fight­ing Irish ire : the Hurricanes wear the colors of the Irish flag. They better be ready to surrender the colors when they enter Notre Dame Stadium next Saturday. But until they do, we must act like the winners we are. 
We should never lower our standards of con­duct for any opponent in any game. Miami is no exception. I truly believe we can beat Miami on the field next weekend. But nobody can beat us off. Let's show the 'Canes you can win with 

page J 

Chilean election results discussed by grad students 
By MIKE O'CONNELL· call elections according to News Staff Chile's constitution," said Atria. "No one knows what will 
The results of the Chilean happen during this next year."elections of Wednesday, Octo­ber 5 were the topic of a dis­The four major politicalcussion yesterday led by changes that need to be made graduate students Rodrigo in Chile today are as follows: Atria and Ernesto Livacich. "cooperation of political par­
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, ties, changes in the constitu­Chile's president for the last tion, State reforms such as , ... ;; ' eight years, was defeated in a decreasing the power of the national election with 43% of military and putting an end to
•',, 

the electorate in favor of Pinoc­violence," said Atria. "With het, 54% against. regards to Chile's future, the ' "Our feelings today are more possibilities are endless, but I
AP Photo 

for celebration than anything believe the people of Chile will 
Ricardo Lagos, president of the Party for Democracy, Pinochet government conceded defeat in the else," said Livacich. "We've 
defend themselves the same congratulates Patricio Aylwin, president of the Chri­presidential referendum Wednesday. See story at been waiting for this for a long way that they have for the past stian Democratic Party, at the "No Command" party right. time." fifteen years: strong human headquarters in Santiago, Chile shortly before the Livacich continued the dis­rights groups, strong politicalcussion by focusing on Chile's parties and a strong media." economic changes since Pinoc­said Atria. 
U.S. hostages in Lebanon 
het came to power and how the Jimi Stukas, a Notre Dame recent elections would affect student who attended the lec­Chile's immediate future. ture, spoke about his experi­
threatened by kidnappers 
"Inflation is down from 500% ences in Chile during the sum­in 1970 to 16% in 1980; the fiscal mer of 1988. Associated Press of the hostages, which we shall hostage in Beirut. The hostage deficit has been reduced and "In Santiago, the govern­make the backbone of our con­held longest is Terry Anderson, exports are up thanks to ment controlled the media and 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Kidnap­frontation," the statement chief Middle East correspon­changes by Pinochet's Minister gave the impression that pers holding two American said. dent for The Associated Press. of Finance," said Liuacich. everything was great, so it captives threatened their The photograph showed He was kidnapped March 16, "Unfortunately, the drop in seemed that Pinochet would safety yesterday if interna­Cicippio wearing a red and 1985. consumption per capita and the have no problem winning the tional interference in navy blue top. Cicippio, 58, of Hostage Mithileshwar Singh, fact that the minimum wage in election," said Stukas. "Last Lebanon's political crisis con­Valley Forge, Penn., was act­an Indian citizen and resident Chile remains at $50 per month month after following the story tinues. ing comptroller at the Ameri­U.S. alien, was freed from cap­shows why Pinochet's argu­in the news, however, I realized 
The warning came in a type­can University of Beirut when tivity Monday after being held ment of a strong economy that the government under written statement in Arabic he was kidnapped on the 20 months in Lebanon. He was failed to win the election for Pinochet did a good job of from the Revolutionary Justice school's campus Sept. 12, 1986. undergoing medical examina­him." hiding the truth." Organization. The statement Revolutionary Justice, tions in Wiesbaden, West Ger­Atria spoke to the audience 
was delivered to the Beirut in­believed linked to Iran, also many. through translator Maria When asked about his opinion dependent newspaper An­claims to hold Edward Austin Perez, as he concentrated on on the elections, Stukas 
Nahar along with a polaroid Tracy, 57, of Burlington, Vt., A U.S. official there said yes­the political repurcussions of replied, "The people of Chile picture of U.S. hostage Joseph an author, who was kidnapped terday that Singh said he and Wednesday's elections. 
have made it very clear that 
James Cicippio. Oct. 21, 1986 in Moslem west three Americans held captive Even though Pinochet was they want to restore the 
"We shall use all the cards Beirut. with him were frequently defeated by a popular vote, he Democracy which they had en­to thwart these conspiracies, There are 16 hostages, in-moved by abductors to thwart will remain in power until joyed before Pinochet came to including the card of the safety eluding nine Americans, held efforts to locate them. December of 1990 when he must power."
.... 
~--~ 
~-------· 

·-------· 
I 
I 

I I
I ~~~ ® [Q)®©[k\ I I ®ITi1©1 IW®mt®U' @TI®ITi1 ®\Yl®U' I 
I I I I 
1 I I EffiJJ[E Drnmomrn rnmrnrnmmm 1 I I
1 Dogbook individual portraits for all Juniors, both on 1
1 & off campus,& both ND & SMC I I I
1 Monday October 10 from 4:30-8:30 LeMans Hall at SMC I I Tuesday & Wednesday October 11 & 12 from 7-11 I 
I & I 
1 Thursday October 13 from 4:30-8:30 
I 
1 

in Room 003 basement of LaFortune
1 1 
I I
You don't want to be recognized from the geeky freshman picture 1
1

1 your mom sent in, do you? Don't you want to find out what new & 1 1 interesting SYR dates you could get from changing this image? Solve I I both problems at once, show the new you to the rest of the Class of 1 
I 1990 & come aet yur doabook oicture undated. 1
·-------------------·---------------------1 
j 
Friday, October 7, 1988 
Alternative foreign studies program discussed at esc 
and probably El Salvador. Aca­By MICHAEL WELLS demic courses for college
Staff Reporter 

credit are also a part of the ex­
Yesterday's meeting in the perience. Center for Social Concerns be­The program's organizers tween interested students and emphasized the differences in the director of Augsburg Col­this semester abroad from lege's Center for Global Edu­other, more traditional pro­cation marks the CSC's bring­grams. Mugge described the ing back of an alternative Cuernavaca semester as "an foreign studies program absent international studies program from Notre Dame since 1986, with a very clear peace and jus­according to Kathleen Maas tice approach." Weigert and Mike Mfleck of the "Each year we probably esc. have 8 or 10 colleges 
Joel Mugge, the director of represented," said Mugge, Augsburg's Global Education whose own college of Augsburg program, outlined the struc­is located in Minneapolis. ture of his university's study 
AP Photo program in Cuernavaca, "The courses, too, are done Wipe Out Mexico for this coming Spring in a fairly non-traditional Semester. Describing the pro-way,"saidMugge. "Itisn'tjust Soldiers clear debris after two railway cars with ex­gram, Mugge said, "It's very someone feeding them a bunch
USSR Tuesday. Four people were killed and another 
plosive cargoes blew up at a railyard in Sverdlovsk, 280 injured. Twelve buildings were destroyed. experimental. There's a great of formulas." Notre Dame stu­deal of involvement with the dents have traditionally local community." received full credit for the five 
The program, being coor-courses taken, said Weigert,
Naples inaugurated as President 
dinated through the CSC by Af-Faculty Liaison and Academic fleck, the Center's Coordinator Coordinator for the CSC. Un­for Justice and Peace Pro-like the programs offered by
of Holy Cross Junior College 
gramming, consists of various Notre Dame's Foreign Studies segments. According to Office, however, participants By JIM WINKLER new process of formulating Mugge, these include five need to petition the administra­
Pointing out that vocations are three-year plans for the College weeks of intensive Spanish, a tion for a leave of absence.
Staff Reporter 

declining, Naples said that it is as a whole. "My hope is time spent living.in a commu-Weigert also indicated that 
Brother David Naples, important that the Board of that...more and better plans nity house, several weeks anyone wishing to find out named as the second president Trustees be committed to fur-will be developed, so that Holy living with a poor Mexican more about the program should of Holy Cross Junior College thering the tradition of the Cross may continue to offer the family, and a trip to Nicaragua act quickly. last April, was officially in-Brothers of the Holy Cross. best to its students." augurated yesterday in the In his address, Naples men-In his concluding remarks, school's St. Joseph Chapel. tioned that Holy Cross has Naples recounted the need to Naples succeeds Brother John served the needs of the Mic-continue the tradition estab­Driscoll, co-founder of the col-hiana region for 22 years, but lished by the Brothers of the lege, who served as president "no concerted effort has been Holy Cross and carried on by from 1966 until his death in June made to tell the people of Mic-Driscoll at Holy Cross Junior of 1987. hiana." Naples continued by College. "I see Holy Cross 
Brother James Leik, who co-saying that more people need educating youth in a manner founded the school with Dris-to know what Holy Cross has that would lift the spirits of our coli, served as interim presi-to offer and how the community founders ... .I see Holy Cross as dent until Naples was named can benefit from the school. a unique educational option for last spring. Naples also saw it important the people of the Michiana area 
Welcoming greetings were that Holy Cross continue its for years to come." 
offered to the congregation • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
from Joseph Kernan, Mayor of

r 
the city of South Bend. Kernan Insurance Sales Management spoke of the fortune .of South Current middle management field person Bend and the educational op-1 k' f · d t 't 'th
portunities within the city, and oo .mg or m~r~ase oppor um YWI . he offered the assistance of the natwnal mulb-lme company. Work drrectly city to Naples. with General Sales Manager on recruiting, 
Kernan's rel!larks were. fol-training, target marketing, and sales. UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STATE lo~e? ~Y greetmgs from Stster Outstanding opportunity for long range career UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY 
Vrrgmta Kampwerth, the Pres-. . 
ident of Ancilla College. growth. Send resume with extensive work UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Kampwerth, on behalf of the history and goals to: 
OFFER

other colleges and universities represented, offered wishes of • A FOREIGN SERVICE CAREER
General Sales Manager
wisdom, joy, balance and • 
cooperation to Naples as he : P .0. Box 2858 Representing the United States abroad as a sets out in his new role. : South Bend, IN 46680 Foreign Service Officer Kempwerth finished by offer-: 
The Initial Step: 

ing "wishes of God's blessings • Equal Opportunity Companies MF. 
in all that you do here." In-: • The Annual Foreign Service 
ldde m. ose db················································
th
c u covere y 



Kampwerth's remarks were 
Father David Tyson of Notre 
Dame and Dr. William Hickey 
of Saint Mary's. 
Mter Kampwerth, Sister M. Jeanne Finske offered greet­ings from the Holy Cross Junior College faculty. Finske praised Naples and offered "support, friendship and our best effort in this new era." She also pledged the faculty to work to accomplish Naples' goals. 
Naples was then inaugurated and addressed the congrega­tion. He reiterated the dreams of Father James Dujarie and Father Basil Moreau, two French priests who helped formulate the Congregation of the Holy Cross during the French Revolution. "Moreau had a dream, that brothers, priests and sisters should work together in their various mini­stries. The founding of Holy Cross Junior College helped ful-

Written Examination December 3, 1988
Woodrow Wilson School 
Deadline for receipt of application:
of Public and October 14, 1988 
You may obtain an application by calling (703) 875-7108
International Affairs 
(24 hour line) or by writing: 
U.S. Department of State Recruitment Division (CN) 
Princeton University 
P.O. Box 9317 Rosslyn Station 
Graduate Education for 
Arlington, VA 22209 
Careers in Public Affairs 
or at you Career Planning and Placement Office 
International Relations 

Eligibility Requirements: 
Development Studies Domestic Policy To be eligible to take the Foreign Service Written Ex-
Economics and Public Policy amination, applicants must be: 
Presentation and question-and-answer session will be • At least 20 years old on the date of the examination held with a Woodrow Wilson School representative. 
• Citizens of the United States 
Date: Thursday, October 13, 1988 
• Available for WORLDWIDE ASSIGNMENT, including Time: 10:00 a.m. and 1.00 p.m. Washington, D.C. 
Place: 

see Career Placement Office 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Friday, October 7, 1988 The Observer page 5 

AP Photo

Post-Battle Brotherhood 
Lloyd Bentsen, 0-Texas, left, speaks with Sen. Dan Quayle after their vice presidential debate in Omaha Wednesday. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Copy Editor 

For further Information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 
Introducing: 
~ s\~QP 

o'Qe 
Telephone directories will be delivered in early November 
By MAURA KRAUSE schedule," according to the Of­Staff Reporter fice of the Registrar, have been processed much more effi­
The frayed, worn-out tempo­ciently than in past years. rary phone directories cur­rently being used across The Scantron enrollment campus are to be replaced in form used this year made as­the not so distant future. sembling the information for 
According to University the phone books much easier Directories, the company although it did create, "many printing the phone directories, added corrections for students the new books will "be on that marked their Scantrons in­campus in early November." correctly," said the registrar's The books, which are "right on office. Despite the "many, many address changes and cor­rections from enrollment until now, the process has been greatly speeded up by the Scantrons and the phone books will be much more accurate this year than last." The phone books take so long to compile because of the in­credible amount of processing that must be done before they can even be sent to be printed, according to the registrar's of­fice. 
Yugoslav· party HQ stoned by mob; party bosses ousted 
Associated Press 
NOVI SAD, Yugoslavia-The Communist party bosses of a Yugoslav province were ousted last night while a stone­throwing crowd of 30,000 people assaulted their headquarters. 
They had promised to resign earlier yesterday in the most dramatic development in three months of mass street protests over ethnic strife and economic crisis. 
Several people were reported injured when the crowd outside party headquarters in Novi Sad, capital of Vojvodina prov­ince, surged toward lines of riot police, hurling stones that smashed windows in the build­ing. 
Belgrade radio quoted doc­tors as saying some people suf­fered bone fractures, but no fig­ures were given. The protesters began to disperse after the leadership stepped down. 
Removal of the provincial leadership could lead to wholesale changes in the na­
~:t~ 

tional party and Yugoslavia's 
six republics. 
Stipe Suvar, the national party chief, said Tuesday night there will be changes in the ruling Politburo and policy­making Central Committee at or before a Central Committee meeting scheduled for Oct. 17. 
Tanjug, the official news agency, said the Vojvodina party committee voted 87-10 to dismiss the 15-member Polit­buro, the highest political body in the province. Two members abstained in a meeting atten­ded by 99 of the committee's 127 members. 
Provincial party leader Milovan Sogorov said a 10­member provisional group would be established while new leaders were chosen for Voj­vodina, a flat, fertile area that produces most of the nation's grain. 
The provincial leadership promised to resign after meeting with Serbian party leaders in Belgrade, Tanjug re­ported. 
Dozens of groups of 1,000 to 2,000 demonstrators rallied in 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
!Be.d and !Buak.f~t 
THE KERNERS REo Buo TRAIL NORTH PHONE BUCHANAN, MI 49107 616-471-5711 
Anyone may come-
Everyone may perform. 
Novi Sad to press demands for 
new leadership. Tanjug esti­
mated the total at 100,000, but 
an Associated Press reporter 
put the number at about 50,000 
in midafternoon. 
Gen. Nikola Ljubicic, a mem­ber of Yugoslavia's federal presidency and a former defense minister, told Serbian party leaders yesterday that "emergency measures" should be taken to stop the unrest but was not specific. 
"I am concerned about today's rally in Novi Sad," Tan­jug quoted him as saying. "Will this rally be satisfied with the decision to be taken (the resig­nation of Vojvodina's leader­ship)? It can raise other demands. How can we control the situation?" 
Witnesses said police rebuffed an attempt by about 30,000 people overnight to force their way into the provincial Central Committee building. There were no reports of injur­,ies in that confrontation, but ,state television said one official 
1 

was hit by a thrown bottle Wed­1 nesday. 1 
1 
I 
j 
j 
SfEAKS ~r· 
PRIMERIB ·\ 
SEAFOOD ft~use 
RfSTAlJRANT 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

Have fun, show off, enjoy entertainment by fellow students Comedy, singing, putting on skits-­Whatever your specialty, here's your chance to do it on stage. 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 9 7:00-9:00PM 
The Observer Friday, October 7, 1988
e6 

ese 
•

aVIn qesn't exact y ut you In se ect com 


Time was, earning an MBA put you head and shoulders above the crowd. 
But in the push and shove of the current job picture, the opportunity to stand out isn't just anywhere. It's right here. At General Mills Restaurants, Inc. Where we recognize your accomplishments. And more importantly, help realize your potential. 
By putting you in a position to make decisions. Assert your leadership. Have an impact. Not five years from now. But right from day one. 
Contributing your marketing or finance savvy to our thriving Orlando-based billion dollar restaurant organization. There's The Olive Garden, fine Italian cuisine set amidst a natural garden setting. 
York's, a unique self-service restaurant concept thriving in 1 00+ locations across 22 states. And of course, Red Lobster. Far and away the leader in satisfying America's growing appetite for seafood. 
An eclectic group to be sure. But sharing in common one great opportunity for a few well chosen MBA graduates. So if you're interested in being more than just a face in the crowd, join us Wednesday, October 12th, at 8pm-1 Opm for our presentation and reception in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn. 
Or write to: MBA Employment, General Mills Restaurants, Inc., PO. Box 593330, Orlando, FL 32859-3330. 
~I 
I GENERAL MILLS RESTAURANTS, INC. 
I 
r 
I r 
r 
RED LOBSTER® 
THE OLIVE GARDEN® 
©General Mills Restaurants. Inc. 1987 Equal Opportunity Employer 
' 
' 
~ ~ 
• 

. .'I.': : : :,
~~~----~~-----a•----------------------­
r----------------.----~----------------------------~------~----~------------------------~----------------~~--­
f_ 1 ~. '. "· ·, <, 1 Friday, October 7, 1988 The Observer page 7 
I I ' I 

a Soviet friend of mind, and , they don't there will be a com-pare to being an American
r· 
think it is a very interesting plete withdrawal. journalist? What effects do the one, is why is it that people that · The Observer: What are your reforms have on that? 
Pozner 
continued from page 1 
can become presidents, that is thoughts about Secretary Gen-
to say vice presidents, are not eral Gorbachev's recent Pozner: Today, being a So­Americans and Soviets would elected, are not chosen by, the ....._ ~ "house cleaning" in the Krem-viet journalist perhaps gives like to have a better relation­American people? ..,._. .,..,_ lin last week? you more satisfaction than ship. Americans have lived un­It is a little bit like a circus ' ' "' Pozner: I feel very positive being an American journalist der the nuclear threat for to us as we watch it from about it It was a step I was because you feel that your in­decades and decades, just as abroad. Certainly it is an inter-waiting for after the 19th party put is actually changing the the Soviets have, and they ex­esting process. Perhaps there conference in June. country. You feel that you have perience a tremendous sense of are things we could learn from It is a change in the political a voice in changing public relief when things get better. it, but it does seem to us that structure that we absolutely opinion in supporting the Therefore, I think that, pro­the important issues are not ad-er need. It is taking the power policies of glastnost and vided there is no sudden, dra­dressed. It is more like a e;ame threatening situation than a from the central commitee perestroika. matic change, relations will or showmanship. It is getting flight to Mars. But I think we party apparatus and giving it continue to improve. the vote without really talking will be working together in to the soviets, which gave our Another one of the differ­
We don't have to be close about the serious issues. space. country its name. ences between American and friends, but we are condemmed The Observer: Do you see The Observer: Conventional The soviets are the counsels Soviet journalists is that we to co-exist --we have no choice any of the following happening arms reduction? that are the backbone of the So-tend to stress the idea of re­but to co-exist With that in over the next ten years? First Pozner: Absolutely. I don't vjet political structure, but one sponsibility. We know we affect mind, I believe the relationship of all, the START treaty? thinkwecanhaveanimportant that -has been ignored for the people. Americans don't like to can become one of cooperation. Pozner: Yes, I definitely START agreement with a cut past 60 years. It is there that take responsibility. They like to 
The Observer: Although you believe that the START treaty in nuclear weapons if we do not the power should be. It is there think that they don't affect are not a voter in the U.S., do will happen much sooner than look into conventional weap-that the elections are. It is public opinion; they only in­you have any comments about in ten years. I think it is in the ons. there that even non-party form people. the current presidential race in cards. The Observer: Complete So-people are elected to office to the U.S.? The Observer: A joint viet withdrawal from M-run the country. I tend to disagree with that 
Pozner: Looked at from U.S;Soviet mission to Mars? ghanistan? Without that change we can-view, but I would say that until abroad, the election process in Pozner: That too could hap-Pozner: I have no doubt not hope to achieve the goals the changes occurred in the So-the U.S. is a somewhat strange pen. Although, I don't think it about it There will be a com-of the reforms. This is a signal viet Union, journalists in my one. The debates don't seem to is all that important It would plete withdrawal. I would only of that very important change. country lived in a straightjack­touch on the issues, and there be far more important if we hope that Pakistan would To me it is crucial. et There were very tight limits is an awful lot of mudslinging. could pool our efforts on ecol-facilitate that and perhaps the The Observer: How does on what you could and could 
One question I was asked by ogy, which is a much more U.S. would too. But, even if being a Soviet journalist com-not say. 
Donahue introduced Pozner, his "I'm here to tell you that the Rus-Donahue and Pozner's visit, spon­friend of several years, with an anecdo-sians are not coming. The Russians are sored by the Student Union Board, was
Discuss 
tal view of U.S.-Soviet relations. "If here. We got us here tonight on this featured as an event in the Year of Cui­
continued from page 1 
we're not strong, the Russians will be. stage a real, live commie," said tural Diversity. Marilyn O'Reilly, thought about my country for the sake 'The Russians are coming."' Donahue. spokesperson for both men, said Notre and the future of both yours and mine." "We now spend 37 cents of our income Americans must look at the Soviet Dame contacted her after a similar 
Donahue said U.S.-Soviet relations tax dollar just to take care of the debt Union from the Soviet's point of view, presentation last year at St Bonaven­are vital to future generations in both to accommodate the hardware that this Pozner told the audience. ture College in New York. countries. "This is not about conserva­nation has committed its national trea-"We make a big mistake when we Donahue met Pozner several years tive or liberal or Republican or Demo­sure to because, 'the Russians are com-look at another country. We judge an-ago and featured him or.. u.e Donahue cratic, this is about common sense and ing,"' he said. other country through our own frame Show in New York. They co-hosted a I know that you join me in hoping that "We have committed all of this of reference. Then we pass judgments show in 1986 via satellite from Seattle, more Vladimir Pozners will be exposed wealth to defending ourselves against from our own frame of reference, and Wa. and Leningrad in the Soviet Union. to more American audiences so that we the Russian bear that is coming over that's a mistake because it misleads It was broadcast within both countries may reach out for the rest of this cen­the mountain, and we cannot protect us," said Pozner. to an estimated 153 million viewers. tury and into the next one instead of our mothers on municipal subways," "We don't really understand the Pozner, 54, was born in Paris and lashing. We owe no less energy for our Donahue said. "The Russians are com-other side, unless we try to look at it lived in Brooklyn, N.Y. for 10 years. children." ing. from that other ~id~erspective." His Soviet father, a Metro-Goldwyn­
GRADUATE STUDY 
•

In AEROSPACE ENGINEERING 

at GEORGIA TECH 
Major areas of study and research: 
Aerodynamics Aeroelasticity Combustion Computational Fluid Dynamics Computer-Aided Design Flight Mechanics & Controls Propulsion Rotary Wing Technology Structural Dynamics Structures-Composites 
Write or call: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-6046 
Mayer employee, moved his family back to Russia in 1948, when Pozner was 15. He holds the rank of political
IAMERICAN 
observer, the highest classification awarded Soviet journalists. 
T~· 

T H N K 

Think Big This Christmas! You can earn $1200 in just 3 months! 
PART-TIME 
OPPORTUNITY! 
Convenient, Modern 
South Bend Offices 
Plan ahead this yearl Using only 18-23 hours per week of your spare time. you can earn aft the money you need this hokday season. 
Stay with The Signature GrQUp into the New Year and earn enough to rMqtt other financial 

full-time employment, talk to in. 
To qualify, you must: 
• Have the desire to succ . . 
• Enjoy working with a variety of peol;lleff!t;.;::;!f4,.·• · 
The Signature Group will pr·OWcjitf''''·: 

• 
Hourly salary well above minimum·· wage with accelerated increases; 

• 
Valuable company-paid ''"' 

• 
Paid Vacations and Holidays. 

• 
Generous Montgomery Ward discount. 

• 
Opportunity to move into management. 


VAWABLE BONUSES INCREASE YOUR EARNINGS EVEN MOREl 
• 
Referral bonuses are paid when we hire an employee that you refer to us. 

• 
Attendance bonLtses. 

• 
Another special bonus is yours after you complete three consecutive months with us. 


CALL 236-4206 
SIGNATURE 

ANY DAY between 9 AM and 9 PM to arrange an interview. 
An Affiliate of Ward 
MIF 

---~---­ ----------------------------------------------~---------------r------------------~  
page 8  The Observer  Friday, October 7, 1988  

YOU GUYS STILL OON'T GET IT? DEDES --D.E. ---OEDER ---DEDERICH SHARON VALUS,
ANDI: SHANE, HAVE A HAPPY 21ST 
I'm really glad that you came out HELLO...is anyone home? ... BIRTHDAYIIIANDCOMESUNDAY, RE­---DONG ..... BARRY SAYS HE'LL MEET IS YOUR BOY FRIEND AS LOVJNGLy to vist me at NO. Was last night MEMBER, IT WAS WORTH ITI
Introducing: KING SAP!! YOU AT THE COPA-CAVANA. WE SAY DEVOTED TO YOU AS YOU ARE TO
Class 

NIX THAT...WE HAVE MUCH BETTER 
continued from page 13 Braddock's! I love you. place: SKID ROW CINDY BRODERICK THINGS IN MIND. CREW IS NEVER AN I OOUBT IT Regretlollly yours, "BAYBEE" time: TBA MY WEEKEND EXPLOITS ARE NOT EXCUSE. WE'RE SO PROUD OF YOU Your Multiple rejectees of St.Eda 
great or what? ~ reminded me of Coro1111tlon for the kings HIM? 
Donahue 
continued from page 1 
how long it will last or how suc­cessful it will be, but it is real. And anyone who doubts that only has to see Ronald Reagan with his arm around Mikhail Gorbachev in Red Square. 
This is a twentieth century development. This man has changed the Soviet Union more than any other single (leader) . Perastroika and glastnost, are the biggest changes in The So­viet Union since the revolution itself. 
The Observer: From your re­lationship with Mr. Pozner and your trips to the Soviet Union, how do you view the difference between being an American journalist and a Soviet jour­nalist? 
Donahue: Well, we've argued about that a lot. They do rankle when you talk to them about the fact that we are freer than they are, and I still believe that is true. I think, however, that this is less true then it used to be. It is remark­able when you recognize how much the press has changed from just two or three years ago. Soviet journalism now in­cludes outfront criticism of Gorbachev or those that oppose him. 
It is not a bawdy as we are; it is not as irreverant. They don't stick their nose under the tent as often as we do. 
I find it interesting that Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev both have one thing in common --they both hate the press. I was very impressed with how impatient Gorbachev was with the media when he was here. He held a press con­ference. It was as though he was (thinking) 'why don't you get off it, why are you always talking.' He wants to tell the news what's the news, and so does Reagan. And you can't do it. 
The Observer: What is the possibility of seeing a START treaty in the next ten years.? 
Donahue: I don't have any doubt in my mind that we are going to have equivalence in the stockpile of nuclear weap­ons. More and more people are coming to the realization that an increase in these inventories does not make us stronger... The western consciousness is growing about the folly that we are going to save our children by (having) 50,000 nuclear war­heads. 
The Observer 

································································ 
Future MIS/Coporate Executives 
SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
guages, and we're
U 
he rush of adrena­
line. The surge of developing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
excitement. The flash of inspira­If you have ~ degree 
tion.Fanllliarfeelingsto in business, MIS or a talented IS professionals related discipline, high at The Travelers. And to academic achievement, 
the promising graduates exposure to hardware and who'll join us this year. softwar~, and so~e pro­You've discovered these feelings in your aca-11 ~~u~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~ 
demic work. Recognized .. dentials for ACCENT. them in the elegance of . If you're a highly-advanced technology. motivated person, an 
And now you can share in them at The independent worker, and an innova­
Travelers, where the support is tive thinker, you have the right chemis­stronger, the environment more try for ACCENT. sophisticated and the applications Now make the right move. To The more challenging. Travelers' ACCENT program. Where 
. As a distinguished college graduate you'll find varied ana valuable learning with an Information Science-related experiences. A supportive human background, you now have a difficult environment and a sophisticated tech­
decision to make about your future. nical one. And where you'll find plenty That's why we created ACCENT. A of opportunities to help move you fast-paced, competitive program. ahead. 
Offering a comprehensive foundation You'll also receive a competitive sal­in Information Systems concepts and ary, complete benefits and even an IBM practices, financial services concepts PS/2 to take home with you. Plus gen­
and principles of management -lead­erous relocation assistance to our Hart­ing to key professional positions. ford, Connecticut home office. 
All in one of the most advanced IS So, if you're a bright and talented environments in the financial services IS-oriented graduate, join The Travelers. industry-including the largest IMS Where the accent is on you and shop, 14 IBM mainframes and a 30,000 the inspiration shared by all. terminal SN A network. Sign up by October lOth to inter­
· But our commitment to staying on view with a Travelers' recruiter on the cutting edge of IS technology November 15th or 16th. Or, send your doesn't stop tfiere. We've recently resume to: Gail Greenier, The Travelers installed over 25,000 IBM PCs, inte­Companies, 30-CR, CN88, One Tower grated the latest 4th generation lan-Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
TheTravelerST 
You're better off under the Umbrella>'' 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
FAC FAC FAC FAC 
FAC FAC FAC FAC SORRY, THE FAC WILL NOT BE MEETING TONITE!I 
KAREN CARBONE NEEDS A DATE TONIGHT!!!! PLEASE SEE OUR AD!!! 
HAPPY 21ST TO MARK RIDGEWAY OBSERVER SYSTEMS GOD!!!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY COSMO I Love, Your 5 Roommates 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES BUSES FOR THE FORMAL WILL BE LEAVING THE MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00 AND 9:30 PM ONL VII GET PSYCHED!! 
Plaster Pittlllll GO IRISHIII!I Plaster Pitt!I! II 
JOE AND KAREN ARE AN ITEM 
BILL DID YOU REALLY MAKE VIDEOS FOR SADE? HERE'S YOUR AD 
(now your fen club Ia cempuawlda) FREDDIE B.(YEAH YOU), 

YOULOVEDITLASTTIME, 
SOISAID"WHATTHEHAY?" 
I'LLGIVEYOUANOTHERONE 
TOMAKEYOUHAVEAGREAIDAY. 
YOULOOKGREATINYOURB.H. 'ers 
THEYMAKEYOUASWEETCHICK, 
WEARTHEMSOMENIGHT 
ANDMAYBEWECANCATCHDINNER 
ORAFLICK. 
(LIKEMAYBETUES? HA) LOVE,BUD 
CALC 265ERS: ONE OOWN, TWO TO GO. WE REALLY MIGHT MAKE IT! 
CHRIS and ERIC DON'T DO ANYTHING I WOULDN'T DO. USE YOUR SPECIAL POWERS AND BE CAUTIOUS .... FAITHFUL FRED 
The UNDERGROUND presents: COR­VALLIS CALLING Tonight at 9:30pm In the basement ol GRACE HALL!! FREE ADMISSION IIIII 
Just when you thought ij was safe to cross the ILLINOIS border again; SENIOR CHICAGO TRIP, Wed. Oct. 12 tickets on sale in sen class office 
victors: MM,ZEF,n (with a tilde) Administrative meeting soon in the "GOD QUAD" 
IRON STOMACH You may not have those weapon foots But your unduly prapa1'11d for anything 
toots 

Just ramember "short and thick does the trick." Love, Your Bush and Cactus 
ELAINE HAMMES when when when will she go tangent? 
LEWIS 1 NORTH unije to break the pact 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARGOT! Hope ell your wishes coma true! Your best friend 
TO THE BOYS IN 308 ST. ED'S WHEN IS DINNER??!! WE ARE STARVED!! HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO MAKE RAVIOLI FROM SCRATCH (SHAKESPEARE) ? HARLOT FROM HELL, TAINTED WOMAN, AND SCAR­LET TROLLOP 
MURDER BY NUMBERS, ONE TWO THREE LIMITED TO CO-ED GRECO-ROMAN MUD WRESTLING MY, OH MY, WHAT THREE YEARS CAN DOl BELIEVE!! 
ATTENTION 
ALL MIAMI T-SHIRT VENDORS 
THE OBSERVER WOULD LIKE TO DO 
APHOTOSPREADOFTHEGREATVA­
RIETY OF SHIRTS AVAILABLE. IF YOU 
WANT YOURS INCLUDED IN THIS 
COLLECTION, PLEASE CALL ROB 
REGOVICH AT 277-6224 AND LEAVE 
A MESSAGE, SO THAT WE CAN AR­
RANGE A TIME BEFORE THIS SATUR­
DAY CALL TODAY. THANK YOU. 
Tom King-

Your Beacon Bowl presence was uni· 
mpressive. The dare is on. 
A Real President 
"Everybody get out of the room I I want to wish LORI MARUCUT a Happy 18th Birthday!!" Don't worry guys. She's legal now!! love Kerry, Steve, and Dave 
································································ 
TALL,ATTRACTIVE,"MODEL-LIKE FIG­URE" BLOND SEEKING KIND,GENTLE,TALL, DARK AND HANDSOME MAN. IF INTERESTED PLEASE RESPOND-AWAITING A PRINCE CHARMING 
FOR STICKING WITH IT. HA HA HEE. THIS ONE'S GONNA BE SICK TO MAKE UP FOR LOST TIME AT SLU. IS YOUR "LmLE HORSE" REALLY A BETTER DRIVER? LOVE AND BAD IN­TENTIONS, YOUR BUDS AT H.C. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MEG! STOP EATING THOSE RAISINS. LOVE, THE ONE-FINGERED SLABS. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHRYN! Rumor has it that you've got •a body that doesn't quit" and that several NO men want "to run their fingers through your long, auburn tresses..." Meanwhile, the iron rod is being dislodged by your loving friends. Corruption can be fun ... love, D &M 
Kevin of the infamous "Love Quad"­oHappy 21st on Saturday. We love you. Ann, Katy, and Amy. 
SENIORS! Tired of studying for mid­terms? Ready for a break before a break? Join us in Chicago on Wed., Oct.121 Sig­nups in Senior Class Office I 
BRENT The Doctor prescribes a Happy Birthday. You know what to do. 
P.S. Don't get the wrong lmpnsnlon If-had known you wens such a bich we wouldn't have wasted our valuable time. 
································································ 
GIRL IN PE I am anxious for your response, I want to know who you are and if you are in­terested. Your Lover ol long Heir 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY KEVIN WHITESIDE Now you can pass out at the bars instead of on my doorstep! You're too old to be laughing at Mass. -A.P Collins 
Attention ladies with buckets!!! Mojo Whiteside is 21 and lookin' lor love. Call for appt. 1633. 
BADIN HALL SYRI BADIN HALL SYRI Get your tickets TODAY! II Get your dates later!! 
Badin Hall SYRI Buy Tix Today!! Help your section win a 6 ft. SUB! 
HELP!! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO THE ATLANTA AREA FOR OCTO­BER BREAK! WILL HELP WITH EX­PENSES! CALL AMY 284-5493. 
Viewpoint
Friday, October 7, 1988 
page 9 

Shell article disregards facts 
The Oct. 5 Viewpoint article, "ND Must Denounce Shell Alliance" by John­Paul Checkett has some serious errors of fact. The article implies that the Uni­versity of Notre Dame is about to host an institute which is, to quote Mr. Checkett's article, "designed to redirect attention from companies like ... Shell and their de facto support for apartheid to another more hypot­hetical discussion on South Mrica post­apartheid. This institute is part of a thinly-disguised plot to exploit educators in order to protect profits gained by the maintenance of the apar­theid system." 
Oliver Williams 
guest column 

I cannot say strongly enough: these statements are preposterous. The Uni­versity of Notre Dame is not now con­sidering such an institute and has never considered any such project. 
While it may be true that Shell hired a management consultant who sugges­ted such an institute, no one ever pro­posed such a project to this University and, if someone ever does, you can be assured that the answer will be NO. The University of Notre Dame is a major teaching and research institu­tion where the coin of the realm is in­tellectual competence. No matter how much money any persons or corpora­tions offer Notre Dame for a Cen­terAnstitute-Chair, they will never be able to install their particular ideologi­cal favorite at this University. We are engaged in a search for truth, a col­laborative venture that sometimes en­tails the abrasive inter actin of scholars. Such interaction always has as its goal 
the discovery of truth. A careful ex­amination of our academic depart­ments will reveal that the search for truth is alive and well. 
Mr. Checkett's article also quotes the consultant's report as stating that Fa­ther Oliver Williams has "close ties to the South Mrican Business communi­ty." This statement is also fallacious. I was in South Africa during the sum­bishop Denis Hurley, the then-presi­dent of the Southern Mrican Conference of Catholic Bishops. I lived with Archbishop Hurley, and he ar­ranged interviews with major leaders of South Mrica--business, religious, academic, labor and so on. Those in­terviews included very helpful private discussions with Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Reverend Beyers Naude. These interviews were part of the re­search for the book I wrote on South Mrica ("The Apartheid Crisis," San Francisco: Harper &Row, 1986). There is no basis to claim that I have "close ties to the South Mrican Business com­munity." 
While I have never seen the manage­ment consultant's report for Shell (The Neptune Strategy), I can only surmise how my name is listed. The three Notre Dame persons listed in the report, Fa­ther Hesburgh, Professor Lee Tavis and I, have all either written or spoken against the complete withdrawal of 
U.S. investments in South Mrica if the companies will aid in the dismantling of apartheid. For example, in my 1986 book, I argue that if a corporation takes dramatic steps to show it is on the side of the blacks in their struggle for civil and political rights in South Mrica, then its continued presence can serve the cause of liberation in that troubled land. I made that argument after dis­cussing the issue with hundreds of 
black South Mricans. A June 1988 report by the Investor Responsibility Re­search Center ORRC) supports my conclusion that most blacks in South Africa do not support the withdraw} of foreign investment. 
Now, if the rumors quoted by Mr. Checkett are true, Shell's management consultants have advocated the strat­egy of co-opting anyone who might be sympathetic to companies remaining in South Mrica. Over a year ago I was warned by a friend in Washington, D.C., that Shell might be embarked on a co-option strategy. To this date, Shell has not been in touch with me or, to my knowledge, anyone else at Notre Dame about South Mrica. Should Shell con­tact me, I will give them the same ad­
mer of 1985, and my host was Arch-vice I published in my 1986 book: the 
Submit all commentaries to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Doonesbury 
THAT'5 
PUTT!Nfi ITMIUJ/..Y, 

TJAMMIT, JOHNSON, I 
"{7)/.D YOU/ NO ONe IS 70 60 NeAR 7HiffMN& a;u..AR -NO ave/
" 

only way for a company to justify its presence in South Mrica is to be a force in overcoming the evil system of apar­theid. Some companies should follow that example, in my view. I argue that money spent by companies on public relations in the United States rather than on assistance to struggling blacks in South Africa is money wasted. 
No matter -how much money any persons or corporations offer Notre Dame for a Cen­ter/Institute/Chair, they will never be able to in­stall their particular ide­ological favorite at this University. 
The idea of a research center or think-tank at a major U.S. university where all the major constituencies in the South Mrican struggle might work together on a new constitution has long been discussed by ethicists. Shell's management consultant did not originate this idea, but they apparently adapted it to their own purposes. This, in itself, is no reason why Notre Dame should not consider having a center. Any center at this University would be on the terms of our faculty and would not be a vehicle for any ideology, no matter who funds it. Should Notre Dame have such a think-tank? 
I can think of some reasons for it and some against. On a number of occa­sions, ethicists have approached me with suggestions for a center to study the transition to a black-controlled South Mrica. One strong advocate of such a center is James Armstrong, former Methodist Bishop of Indiana and president of the National Council of Churches. I have always forwarded inquiries about such a center to the In­stitute for International Peace Studies, the natural home to consider such a proposal. 
By way of conclusion, I am concerned about the way the accusations about Shell's apparent co-option strategy have been raised. I am a firm believer that the University is the place to dis­cuss difficult issues, but the coin of the realm here is intellectual competence. Half truths, innuendo and ad hominem arguments only take away from our im­portant mission. I have publicly debated the ethics of investments in South Mrica with Professor Peter W alshe on television and on-campus any number of times. I have discussed my position with any student who ever asked. I do this in the belief that I can learn something and that perhaps the other person can learn something as well. I hope this spirit will continue at this great university. 
Reverend Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., is the Associate Provost ofthe University. 
P.O. Box Q 
Lyrics justify Manilow's music 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is addressed to Mr. Steve Megargee 's excellent Inside column of Sept. 29. I too am a Barry Manilow fan. I have most of his albums and his recent book. I've been listening to his music since I was four· (I'm now seventeen) and have seen three out of four of his concerts in my hometown (I was too young the first time he came). And I'm definitely going to be at that concert on Oct. 7. I wouldn't miss it for the world. 
I even agree with the fact that he looks like a beagle. But if you get beyond Barry's basic appearance (and the nose), it is the words of the songs that really matter. He has advice for 
Garry Trudeau 
HAV& YOU 
THOUGHT IT'57VO ABaJT601N6 LAT&,M/'35. 
70TH&PO­THefJOO­uce,51Rr a:xJ'S 700 
I OCEP.I 
,,,.. 
_... :. 
/'I~ 
\ 

all subject matters, both romantic and real-life. Many of his songs have gotten me through some of the darkest days in which I thought there was no hope of happiness ever again. He also accen­tuates individuality and tells you that it's all right to be different. You've got to be just a little different if you're a Manilow fan. Finally, he has that mel­low type of voice that can fit almost any mood. 
Therefore, don't criticize a Barry Manilow fan until you've heard the songs for yourself. Don't concentrate on the '70s type of music or the outdated haircuts on the covers of the albums. Listen to the lyrics. And maybe, just maybe, I'll see you at the concert along with the rest of us Manilow fans. 
Julie Sweet Knott Hall Oct. 5, 1988 

Campus Quote 
"The Important thing to remember Is to question what we have learned to be unquestionable and through that we learn what Is right." 
Vlad imlr Pozner October 6, 1988 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by lhe students of t11e University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saini Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Edltor-in·Chlef ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Edltor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts VIewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controlrer .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerirnele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 



DAVE DESALLE accent writer 
S 
he is called the "Empress of 
African Song" by 
some and "Mamma 
Africa" by others. The virtuoso South African singer, Miriam Makeba will be performing with jazz trum­peter Hugh Masekela on Sun­day at 8 p.m. in Stepan Cen­ter. 
Makeba and Masekela have recently completed a six­month world tour with Paul Simon's Graceland tour. T~eir music includes every­thmg from traditional South African songs to stirring protest marches and pop. 
Miriam Makeba was born into the Xhosa tribe in Johan­nesburg, South Africa, in 1932. Early in her youth she began singing in school and church choruses and soon be~an t~ pr~test her country's white mmonty regime through song. 
She gained popularity as a moralist in the Manhattan Brothers, one of South Africa's top bands, and in 1955 rose to international at­tention for her brief appear­ance in the documentary "Come Back, Africa." She impressed Harry Belafonte and Steve Allen so much that she soon appeared on Allen's television show and began to tour with Belafonte. 
Makeba set fashion trends with her hair and clothing in the 60s and started a dance craze with her international hit "Pata, Pata." 
"I had been singing for some time when in 1967 I re­corded a very silly song called 'Pata, Pata.' Immedi­ately it became very popular and this won me even more songs," she said. 
Since 1~, she has been in exile from South Africa due to her songs and speeches criticizing the Pretoria regime. The regime fears her return may cause further po­litical upheaval. In the same year, she was denied entry to attend her mother's funeral and in 1963, after she testifi~d before the United Nations Special Committee Against Apartheid, her records were banned at home. 
As the result of her 1968 marriage to Black Power ac­tivist Stokely Carmichael, she lost many concert dates and recording contracts. "There was a subtle boycott when I married Stokely " she said "but that did not mean I ' stopped working. I went to where I could get work." 
Makeba relocated to Guinea and continued to tour in Europe, Africa, Latin 

UNDER AFRICAN 
SKIES 

MAKEBA MASEKELA 
'1 
America and Asia. She served as a Guinean delegate to the United Nations from 1975 to 1976 and is noted for her speeches against the apar­theid system. 
Her personal life has been a~ turbulent as her profes­sional career. She is in her 28th year of exile and has survived a plane crash, 11 auto accidents and cancer. She has also been married five times. She comments: "I have been denied my home. We have been denied our ~and .. I ~~ve watched my fam­ily dimimsh as relatives are killed. I am in exile on the outside. We are in exile on the inside." 
Miriam Makeba received the Dag Hammarskjold Peace Prize in 1986. Her auto­biography, "Makeba: My Story," has been published rec~ntly meriting favorable reviews, and her new album Gargama, was released ear-' lier this year. 
H~gh Masekela, 48 years old, IS a debonair trumpeter who continues to use a unique style he developed to both en­tertain and convey a political message. A native of South Africa, he left his homeland in the 60s to train in London and New York City. In 1968 he s?l~ over 4 million copies ?f h~s mstrumental hit "Gray­mg m the Grass." That same year, he founded the Botswana International ~chool o~ ~usic to train aspir­mg musicians. 
In 1985 the International School was, interrupted by a South African commando raid under the pretext of a search for African National Congress guerrillas. 
Masekela's latest album ~amarram, features town~hipJazz, Afro-beat dance rhythms, jazz and vocal work. His work carries a strong anti-apartheid mes­sage that is further illustrated by his self-imposed exile. 
He has said, "There's nobody who can divorce their lives from the politics of ~o~th Africa. Whether you're mside or outside of South Africa, you've got a lifetime fight on your hands." 
Miriam Makeba and Hugh Ma~ek_ela have both spent therr hves working to raise consciousness about apartheid and to share the moving music of their struggling h?meland. On Sunday eve­nmg, open your eyes to the world and your ears to the music of South Africa. 
Tickets for the concert are $4 for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and are on sale at the JACC and O'Laughlin box offices. 
PAUL A. PILGER BILL DONARUMA accent writers 
fiJI. he Groov~ owns per­
,,,,,,1, haps the most aptly named band on any , college campus. 
Their music not only flows from their musical ability, but from their ability to perform--to "Groove." Their musical depth, both vo­c~lly and instrumentally, pro­
vides a punch which takes their performance beyond the stage and gets the audience into "The Groove." 
The Groove formed in the spring of this year with guitarist Harold Sivers vocalist Leroy Mcintosh, and drummer Brian Doherty com­ing together as the core of the band. Leslie Edwards and Lois Conrad hold lead vocal positions, while keyboard duties are mixed between Colin Quinn and Greg O'Connor. The horn section is comprised of Brian DiBona and Bob Lecinski on trum­pets, and Ken Schwartz on sax. Sharing lead male vocals with Leroy is bassist Scott Tallarida. Together they form not just a set of great musicians, but a group of good friends. 
Though The Groove made I t~e. conscious decision of pro­t vidmg an alternative to the il campus music scene, (ruled c mostly by formula one rock combos playing typical N.D. 0 music) they attest under oath 1 that the primary considera­G tion in compiling a reper­( toire was personal taste. r. 
"\Ye wanted to play the t mus~c we grew up with, the f music we really enjoy most," says Harold. "We weren't hearing any of it anywhere. a Not from bands, not on the radio." b 
And whose music influences v The Groove? Leroy proclaims li Prince, Stevie Wonder 
' 
Hanks hit!~ 
DOUG RADKE accent writer 
I 
t has only been a few months since Tom Hanks t~rilled audiences with his performance in "Big." Once again he is up on the silver screen but t~is ti~e he shares the' spot­light with Sally Fields in "Punchline." 
Hanks plays Steven Gold, who flunks out of medical school and is forced to pursue stand-up comedy as the ~eans _to pay his bills. Sally Fields Is Layla Krytsick, a mother of three and the wife of ~n insurance agent, who is trymg to satisfy her inner compulsion to be a comedian. Both perform nightly at The Gas Station, a club whose stage curiously resembles the set from the Maxwell House coffee commercials. 
The movie transcends the simplicity of one-liners vul­garity and slapstick reiied upon heavily in today's movies. Hanks' character has emotional problems stem­ming from his childhood which grow worse with each passing scene. Fields must 


at 


Time 3:00 p.m. COT 

TV & Radio 
ESPN-TV (Roger Twibell, Lee Corso) WNDU-TV Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) WVFI-AM 640 
Game is sold out
Tickets 

(capacity 56,500) Notre Dame 5thAP Rankings Pittsburgh unranked Notre Dame leads, 32-16-1
Series 
First game in 1909 October 10, 1987

Last Game 
Pittsburgh 30, Notre Dame 22 

A phone call is all the incentive Bolcar needs 
Senior tri-captain has nose for football 

By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
When Ned Bolcar comes through the tunnel for a Notre Dame football game, he carries a lot more with him than his 6-2, 232-pound frame. 
The senior tri-captain carries with him memories of the endless phone calls that flood his room. And that's all he needs to pump him up for 60 minutes of football on Saturday afternoon. 
"This guy here is in tears," says Bolcar as he says goodbye to another well-wisher. "He says 'Ned, Pittsburgh is the biggest game of the year! You don't understand--all you've worked for will be down the drain if you don't beat Pit­tsburgh. Don't worry about Miami or anything else.' I say 'I know, Jim,' and he says, 'Are you ready?' And I say, 'Yes we're ready.' And we are." 
It is because of calls like this one that Bolcar has developed the reputation of always being ready--ready to deliver the big hit, recover the key fumble and provide the leadership to take a team to the heights this one seeks. 
"I get friends and subway alumni from home calling me up the night before a game," says Bolcar, "and they're ready to cry on the phone and tell me how bad they want Notre Dame to win. They are so fired up. It's important to them in their life, so then you realize how important it should be to you and your life. We're out here playing for Notre Dame, practicing for Notre Dame and living Notre Dame. You'd think when it came time to play the game we would care enough to get emotional enough and all excited to go out there and hit somebody.'' 
Hitting somebody is Bolcar's vocation at the linebacker spot, and with his nose for the foot­ball, he has become as difficult as a hurricane for opponents to stop. Irish defensive coordina­tor Barry Alvarez concurs. 
"Ned Bolcar is extremely physical and he is always around the football. All you need to say about him is that he makes plays on Saturday," says Alvarez. 

And his play on Saturdays last fall didn't go without recognition, earning him second-team all-America honors. Four times he had 10 or more tackles in a game. Seven times he led the team in tackles. He played more 

Ned Bolcar 

minutes than any other defen­sive player and never regis­tered less than six tackles in a game. For his performance, CBS and Chevrolet named him 1987 Defensive Player of the Year. 
But that was 1987, and this fall the dynamic linebacking duo of Bolcar and fifth-year senior Wes Pritchett has added a new face that is making a big impact--junior Michael Stonebreaker. Academically ineligible last season, Stonebreaker has moved into Bolcar's slot as the free­roaming eagleback while Pritchett retains the other starting linebacker position. That situation became more evident in spring practice, which Bolcar missed most of because of an ankle injury. Now Bolcar is the swing man between the two positions. 
"Ned plays both positions," says Alvarez. "The eagle linebacker is away from the tight end so he runs free and it is harder for a blocker to get to him. The "Mike-back" is preferably a little larger be­cause he has to take on the guard on almost every play. Ned fits the bill on both of them. He's versatile in that way, and that's why he's playing both positions." 
"I think he has handled it (being the swingman and con­sequently seeing less playing time) very well," continued Al­varez. "It has to be a tough sit­uation for him. All three linebackers are excellent--they could play for anybody. When they've got the opportunity, they all have produced. That's what I want. I've got an obli­gation to the football team to play all three of them because they are all good football players. Not because some­body made all-American--that doesn't concern me one bit." 
Bolcar's decreased playing time in favor of the three-man linebacking rotation has not diminished his intensity or his nose for the ball. He has one interception this fall and a key fumble recovery on the Stan­ford 1-yard line last weekend that set up Notre Dame's second touchdown of the day. 
After a stellar high school career that earned him Parade co-Player of the Year honors and a guest column in USA Today on the recruiting process, Bolcar came to Notre Dame ready to produce on the football field--but sat instead. 
"All along I had confidence that I could play and hit as hard as anybody out there," Bolcar says. "But I realized I've got to be fundamentally sound to be good on every play. The learning process at this level takes time." 
Bolcar's concerns about not playing as a freshman were augmented by the mood of Gerry Faust's last year as head coach. A lot has changed in three years. 
"When I came here fresh­man year," recalls Bolcar, "I was kind of disappointed in Notre Dame football. I came in at the end of Faust's years and there seemed to be light at the The ObeeMir 1 Trey Aeymond end of the tunnel. Then Coach Irish linebacker Ned Bolcar Is sharing time with Mike Stonebreaker Holtz came in and it was like a and Wes Pritchett this year, but that has not slowed the Intensity breath of fresh air. He was a or the performance of the senior trl-captaln. Brian O'Gara features 
coach with experience in build-the tough-nosed Bolcar at left. ing programs and soon after things started picking up. have had. The mystique and We've now become closer as a tradition were a big part of why team and we've gotten better I came here in the first place 
every year, and now Notre and now I'm a part of that. Dame is starting to rise to the "Now Notre Dame is more national prominence that it like I expected it to be." once knew and always should And thanks to the intense and enthusiastic play of Ned Bol­car, Notre Dame football is more like what the fans who call him expect it to be-­winning games, climbing polls and chasing national cham­pionships. 

beyond Pitt's win-loss record. A look at the recent history of Notre Dame-Pitt matchups should be enough to divert the attention of even the most ardent Miami hater: 
• 
Last season the Panthers jumped out to a 27-0 halftime lead and handed fourth-ranked Notre Dame its first loss of the season, 30-22. 

• 
Pitt has won each of the last three meetings, including a 10-9 win in 1986 and a 21-16 victory in 1983, both at Notre Dame. 

• 
The Irish luck in the injury depart­ment could end with the astroturf at Pitt Stadium, where Corny Southall and Terry Andrysiak both suffered fairly serious injuries last year. Head Coach Lou Holtz, a noted synthetic-surface hater, lost two fullbacks on the astroturf at Michigan State this season. 


"What really concerns me is practic­ing on astroturf," said Holtz. "We may lose somebody in a freak accident like we lost (freshman offensive tackle) Jus­tin Hall last week with a broken leg." 
There is something about playing the Panthers at Pitt Stadium which just does not figure in the rankings or the records. Holtz has been pushing that angle, downplaying his team's No. 5 ranking and 4-0 record. 
"When I think about Pitt," said Holtz, "I think about the same (situation going into Stanford)--! just don't know. Our morale and attitude at practice was good Monday, but I'd rather have execution on Monday and morale and attitude on Saturday. 
"I don't think there's any doubt that if Pitt was playing anybody but maybe Notre Dame or Penn State, then they might be down. They will not be down against Notre Dame. That just goes with the territory." 
One clear advantage the Irish have over Pitt is the injury situation. Notre Dame has relatively few injuries com­pared to the way Pitt is nicked up. 
"We're missing some key compo­nents becasue of injuries from the Ohio State game," noted Gottfried, "and they keep getting reinjured. Should we hold them out, or should we play them? That is the question we're facing this game." 
Both teams are strong running squads, big and physical, and noted for their play in the trenches. 

"I'm not sure what form the game will take," said Gottfried. "We are a running football team, and Notre Dame is a very good running football team. It could get down to a bump-and-grind type of game. 
Pitt offense vs. Notre Dame defense 
A rising star at quarterback, a vet­eran offensive line and an eye-opening freshman running back combine for a diverse Panther attack. 
The quarterback is sophomore Dar­nell Dickerson, and Gottfried says he's better than the three pro quarterbacks he's coached in the past. 
"Darnell Dickerson is a pure, raw tal­ent," said Holtz. "He has a great arm, he has great feet, and he puts points on the board." 
Dickerson has completed 31 of 63 passes for 508 yards and four touch­downs, and he also is the team's third­leading rusher with 185 yards on 40 carries. Because of Dickerson, the Pan­thers have installed the option in their offense. 
"You get so concerned about Dicker­son," said Holtz. "He has such great 
-

mobility and you want to get a little bit of pressure on him." 
But to get pressure in the Panthers' backfield, the Irish will have to beat a veteran offensive line, including con­sensus preseason All-American Mark Stepnoski at right guard and 6-5, 275­pound senior Tom Ricketts at left tackle. Junior center Dean Caliguire is questionable with a thigh injury. 
How well the Pitt offensive line plays should determine how much action the Irish secondary will have. 
"Our defensive line and our lineback­ers have played very well up front, and consequently it hasn't put undue pres­sure on the defensive secondary," said Holtz. "But Pitt can control the line of scrimmage, and when they do that, you have to involve the secondary in trying to stop their power game and their op­tion game." 
Amazingly the Irish secondary's leading tackler, strong safety George Streeter, ranks only seventh on the team in total tackles. With the linemen and linebackers stopping runners before they break through, the second­ary has contributed more with eight in­terceptions. The result is a defensive unit ranked 13th in the nation in total defense (265 yards per game) and fifth in scoring defense (10.3 points a game). 
Last Saturday the Panthers received 
Tony Rice continues to improve. Against Stanford he recorded career highs in completions (11), rushing yards (107) and passing yards (129). 
Gottfried said he fears Notre Dame's passing attack because the Irish are such a good running team. 
"You have to defend the entire field on the option," he said. "They can run inside or outside off the option, then they can go to the play-action pass, and that puts a lot of pressure on our defense." 
Ranked third in the nation in pass defense going into the Boston College game, the Panthers fell to 14th after the Golden Eagles quarterback Mike Power burned the Pitt secondary for 238 yards in the air. 
Among the Pitt linebackers, one par­ticularly stands out in Irish eyes--senior Jerry Olsavsky. The middle linebacker recorded 17 tackles in 1987 (7 solo, 10 assists) and 15 tackles in 1986 (eight solo, nine assists). 
Irish tackle Dean Brown may have his hands full with with Panther right end Burt Grossman. A preseason All­American, Grossman has recorded 80 tackles in each of his last two seasons, but he missed the Boston College game with an ankle injury and his status is questionable for this week. 
''Watching them against Ohio State,'' said Holtz, "I was so impressed with them defensively. Their defensive linemen are exceptional. Olsavski just has a natural nose for the ball, and I think he really ties that defense to­gether." 
Free safety Troy Washington leads the Pitt secondary with 27 tackles and an interception. 
Pitt's mission is simple--stop an of­fense averaging 281 yards a game on the ground and 33 points a game. 
The Irish have a string of three games where a player has rushed for more than 100 yards. Mark Green had 125 against Michigan State, Tony Brooks ran for 110 in the first half against Purdue, and Rice optioned Stanford all night for 107 yards. 
With Notre Dame's passing game im­proving and Pitt's injuries mounting, solid Irish execution could go a long way on offense. 
PANTHERS TO WATCH 

Tom Ricketts (OT) Troy Washington (FS) Dean Callgulre (C) Bill Osborn (FL) Mark Stepnoskl (OG) 
The senior ail-America can­didate is one of the top tackles in the nation. The 6-5, 275­pound Ricketts bench presses 405 and squats 580. 

The only veteran returning from last year's highly-touted secondary, the 6-2, 190-pound senior had 77 tackles and two interceptions in 1987. 
Caliguire makes the switch from guard to center this year, after earning all-East honors last season. The senior played center his freshman year. 

The sure-handed Osborn was second on the team with 26 receptions for 341 yards. The senior caught a 30-yard TD pass against the Irish last year. 
The Outland Trophy candidate might not look tough in this photo, but the NFL Draft Report rated him tops among ail offen­sive players. 



Call it luck, call it a miracle, or call it a fluke, but the victory By THERESA KELLY renewed national prominence STEVE MEGARGEE for the Irish while it stifled any Assistant Sports Editors hopes of a national champion­ship for Pitt. The hero was a When Allen Pinkett freshman named Pinkett, who graduated from Notre Dame, rushed for a game-high 112 he left behind a trail of broken yards. records, a 25-20-1 record at 
The Panthers took a 6-0 lead Notre Dame and a 58-7 loss to on two field goals by Eric Miami. Shubert. Both drives were ad­He was drafted in the third ministered by a quarterback round by the Houston Oilers, who later rewrote the NFL who at the time weren't a whole record books--Dan Marino. lot better. 
Then, in the second quarter, "I was lucky," Pinkett said. the Panthers were forced to "I came onto this team when punt from deep in their own ter­it was on the gound floor and ritory. had the potential to be someth­
But after the Irish moved the ing very, very big." ball to the Pittsburgh 21-yard line, Blair Kiel and his offense And in Pinkett's second year could not budge the Pitt with the club, the Oilers at least defense. Mike Johnston came partially lived up to that poten­on to kick a 38-yard field goal, tial. During a year filled with and things did not look good for adversity in the form of an NFL the stagnant Irish offense. players' strike and a front of­
Later in the quarter, the Irish fice threatening to move the recovered a fumbled punt and franchise to Jacksonville, a began a drive from the Pitt 45. young but talented Oiler team 
reached the playoffs. 
see CAPSULE, page 4 

After earning a wild card 
f'A.. 
TAILBACK 
27 Curvin RichardBPitt Offense ~ 35 Ricky Turner 
FULLBACK 31 Dan Crossman 22 Ronald Redmon
FLANKER 12 Bill Osborn 
~ 

QUARTERBACK
f!:''' Wllliomo A 15 Darnell Dickerson 
TIGHTENO
80 Vernon Kirk 82 Tom Huebner 
1!4 36 Donn Grimm FREE SAFETY 
31 Corny Southall bid 15 Pat Terrell V TACKLE 

~ 8 Larry Wanl<e62 Roman Matusz 70 CalVert Jones 
TACKLE
f'A.. 71 Tom Ricketts 

!'"' ...-~ ~..~,.·~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 76 Mike Llvorio 
CENTER 

GUARD ~~~ldt
GUARD 64 Dean Caliguire GUARD 
52 Tlltl Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 77 Mark Stepnoskl 78 John Glesky 72CMsGoetz 53 Winston Sandri 
75 Tony Delazio 73 Bill Cherpak NOSE TACKLE 
Pitt Defense TACKLE TACKLE 
89 Tom Sims 00 Mate Spltldler

TACKLE so Chris zonch TACKLE Irish Defense 
96 RiChard Allen 97 Jeff Esiers

90 Jeff Aim 96 Steve Roddy 69 George Williams 
47 Ned Bolcar ~ 
CORNERBACK 

3 Alonzo Hampton16 Robert BradleySTRONG SAFETY
bid 27 George Streeter
• 26 Greg Oavls 

spot in the American Football Conference, the Oilers defeated Seattle before getting eliminated by eventual confer­ence champion Denver. 
The 1988 season has seen the Oilers continue their winning ways, with Pinkett playing a larger role in the team's suc­cess. 
Despite playing second­string to running backs Alonzo Highsmith and Mike Rozier, Pinkett leads the Oilers, 3-2, in offensive production. He is tied with Marcus Allen of the Raiders for the AFC lead in scoring with 36 points (six touchdowns), and ranks lOth in the conference in rushing, car­rying 57 times for 259 yards and two touchdowns. 
"It's a privilege to be in the backfield with such great names," Pinkett said. "I'm happy to be on a team with a winning record in the NFL. This is the first year that I've actually felt like an NFL back." 
Irish Offense FULLBACK 
22 Anthony Johnson 35 Ryan Mihalko 
fl..ANI(ER 
SPLITEND12 Ricky. Walter$ QUARTERBACK

13 Pat Eilers 8 9 Torly Alee 80 Stove Alaniz
SPLIT END 
25 Raghlb Ismail

TIGiff IND TACKLE ~ 17 Keol Grallam
e1 Henry Tuten 
• 86 Derek Brown 6$ Andy Haek
19 Baron Jackson 
One of the three Oiler deci­sions was a 38-35 win over the Los Angeles Raiders and two other Notre Dame football alumni, quarterback Steve Beuerlein and flanker Tim Brown. Pinkett led Houston to victory with three touchdowns in his first start of the season. 
"I was thrilled to death that the coaches gave me the oppor­tunity to start," Pinkett said, "and I was more excited that we won the game. If I had started, run for 200 yards and scored four touchdowns, and we lost, I would think someth­ing was lacking in my effort. 
"I had some success, and we won, but it was a team effort," continued Pinkett. "That's the great thing about the team this year; that's what's going to make the difference. We don't have any selfish players on the Oilers." 
Pinkett's four years at Notre Dame coincided with the regime of former Irish head co­ach Gerry Faust. Despite 
TAtLBACK 

:?4 Mark Groon 
40TooyBrooks 
~ Jerry Ol&a\18kytwl1 46 Craig Gob ~ 
V V 
FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFElY 
~ T~y Washington 
5 Louie Riddick24 Doug Het21er 14 Marcus Washington 
-

Pinkett's talents and broken records, 'Pinkett, Pinkett, pass and punt' produced disappoint­ing results for the Irish. 
"I have no regrets about Notre Dame," Pinkett said. "If I had the opportunity, I'd go back and do it again. The only thing I'd change is the number of victories." 
Pinkett holds Notre Dame records for rushing attempts in a game, 40 against LSU in 1984, and in a career, 889 from 1982 through 1985, which earned him the career high in rushing yards, 4,131. 
Other Irish records Pinkett holds are season 100-yard games (nine in 1983), career 100-yard games (21), career rushing touchdowns (49) and touchdowns in a season, 17 in 1984. 
Over his career, Pinkett averaged 96.1 yards per game and 4.6 yards per carry, both Irish records. He is also the career scoring leader, with 53 touchdowns and one two-point conversion, good for 320 points. 
TACKLE 
~~=~­
GUARD 75 Tim Grunha.rd 72 Joe Allen 
~~e~ay 
17 Michael Hadley 

DISJIENSIV& ~NO-" " • DEFENSIVE END
91 Camel Smith 92 Burt Grossman 
94 Nelson Walker 94 Nelson Walker
r~~~1!~:ki i:b~ ~ ~Mlrk~ovic ~=~=~D 
~88ACl<ER 1t 1!4 1t UNI!BACKER
CORNERBACK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ CORNERBACK 
o:A M~~$..~ 7 Prentiss Wright 
""' 1...,. .,..,T.,n 4!! Ricardo McDonald
1 Todd Lyght INSIDE UNEBACKER~ ~INSIDE LINEBACKER 32 D'Juan Francisco 
33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike Stonebreaker 29 Stan Smagala 
MIDOLE UNEBACKER 
1t 



page4 Friday, October 7, 1988 
a two-yard plunge by Thomas. The Irish clinched the game
Capsule 
But the fourth quarter was on their next possession when all Notre Dame. they drove 65 yards in six
continued from page 3 

The Irish outscored Pitt 21-3 plays, ending on a seven-yard Kiel used just three plays to in the final stanza, the first touchdown trot by Pinkett. score, including a 30-yard coming on a 54-yard flea­"When you've got the ath­heave down the middle to ful­flicker. Kiel handed to running letes like they have and you lback Larry Moriarty. The big back Phil Carter who pitched hold Pitt under 21 points, fullback then hulled in for the the ball back to Kiel, who then you've done a heck of a a job," score and a 10-6 Notre Dame threw to a wide-open Joe said linebacker Mark Zavag­advantage. Howard for the touchdown. nin, who registered a team­
Marino accumulated a high 16 tackles. "They're a healthy 314 yards in the air, but Pitt closed the gap to a point great football team and they're it was Pitt's rushing attack that on a 47-yard field goal by going to get their yards. But granted the Panthers a third­Schubert on its next possession. when we had to, we sucked it quarter touchdown. Bryan But Pinkett thwarted any Pan­up. We would bend, but we Thomas and Joe McCall both ther rally hopes as he broke wouldn't break." carried the ball in a long 98-five tackles and raced 74 yards Faust couldn't have said it
The Observer I File Photo 
yard Pitt drive that ended with for a touchdown. better himself. 
Allen Pinkett dives through the Miami defense for the Irish. 
IRISH STATS PANTHER STATS SCHEDULES 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP Culver 12 74 6.2 1 36 TEAM STATISTICS UP OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG TOTAL OFFENSE 1496 1050 Watters 13 24 1.8 0 13 NOTRE DAME (4-0)
A. Walker 60 374 6.2 5 89 YARDS Setzer 8 23 2.9 0 12 TOTAL OFFENSE 1661.o, 1091 Richards 44 310 7.1 3 83 d. MICHIGAN, 19-17 Total Plays 267 264 Belles 5 22 4.4 0 10 YARDS ::: Dickerson 40 185 4.6 
4 20 d. Michigan State, 20·3
Yards per Play 5.60 3.98 Banks 4 13 3.3 0 6 Total Plays 2~ 259 
Crossman 19 87 4.6 1 8 Yards per Game 374.0 262.5 K.Graham 4 12 3.0 0 5 Yards per Play 5.9 5.3 d. PURDUE, 52-7
Redmon 16 57 3.6 0 6 
PENALTIES-YARDS 17-154 27-233 Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 Yards per Game 416.3 272.8 D.Moore 35 2.7 d. STANFORD, 42"14
13 0 13 
FUMBLES-LOST 5-3 3-2 P.Graham 3 9 3.0 0 9 
Turner 7 21 3.0 0 4 Oct. 8 -at Pittsburgh
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 78 61 Eilers 2 6 3.0 0 6 PENALTIES-YARDS 26-220 25-304 Christy 1 11 11.0 0 11 By Rushing 54 25 Mihalko 2 5 . 2.5 0 3 FUMBLES-LOST 8-2 9-6 Deveaux 2 5 2.5 0 5 
Oct. 15 -MIAMI By Passing 20 33 Jarosz 2 -2 -1.0 0 0 Oct. 22 -AIR FORCE
Wanke 2 -16 -8.0 0 -4 
By Penalty 4 3 Ebert 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 81 55 PITTSBURGH 
2041069 5.2 13 89 Oct. 29 -at Navy
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 54-26 59-19 Team 1 -21 -21.0 0 -21 By Rushing 
50 23 OPPONENTS 167 547 3.3 4 64 
Nov. 5 ·RICE POSSESSION TIME 119:20 120:40 OPPONENTS 139 387 2.8 3 18 By Penalty 6 8 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Nov. 19 ·PENN STATE Minules per Game 29:50 30:10 
Percentage 48.1 32.2 NOTRE DAME 2151124 5.2 9 38 By Passing 25 24 
Nov. 26 -at Southern Cal THIRD DOWNS-CONV 53-19 59-20 SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Percentage 35.9 33.9 Dickerson 63 31 .492 2 508 4 
Ho 4 0 13-14 0-0 0 6-8 31 Rice 41 20 .488 2 304 3 POSSESSION TIME 130:00 110:00 Wanke 12 6 .500 2 88 1 Rice 4 4 0-0 1-1 0 0-0 26 Belles 3 1 .333 0 34 1 Minutes per Game 32:30 27:30 Scanlon 0 0 .000 0 0 0 
PITTSBURGH (2-2)
Green 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 
K.Graham 6 3 .500 2 18 0 UP 75 37 .493 4 596 5 
Brooks 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 P.Graham OPP d. NO. IOWA, 59-10 D.Brown NO 52 25 .481. 4 372 4 SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP d. OHIO STATE, 42-10 
2 1 .500 0 16 0 92 39 .424 4 544 3 
4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Watters 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 OPP 68 .544 2 TO
125 8 663 RECEIVING NO YOS AVG LG I. W.VIRGINIA, 31-10Johnson 410-0 0-0 00-0 6 A.Walker 
4 5 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 30 
Culver 310-0 0-0 00-0 6 I. Boston College, 34-31
RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Dickerson 4 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Tuten 14 256 18.3 2 76 
Ismail 410-0 0-0 00-0 6 
Watters 5 63 12.6 0 21 Richards 4 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Osborn 8 138 17.3 2 54 Oct. 8 • NOTRE DAME 
6
Stonebrkr 410-0 0-0 00-0 Eilers 4 49 12.2 0 13 VanHorne 3 0 14-14 0-0 0 1-3 17 Williams 4 74 18.5 0 50 
Oct. 15 · TEMPLE
Hackett 4 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-1 4 
Ismail 3 80 26.7 1 54 Osborn 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Crossman 4 33 8.3 0 12 NO 4 16 14-15 1-1 0 7-9 133 
Oct. 22 -NAVY
Brooks 3 58 19.7 1 34 Tuten 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Kirk 2 19 9.5 0 17 OPP 4 5 5-5 0-0 0 2-4 41 Green 3 44 14.7 0 38. Kaplan 2 0 5-5 0-0 0 2-3 11 Jackson 1 39 39.0 1 39 Nov. 5 · RUTGERS D.Brown 3 18 6.0 2 6 Hampton 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Huebner 1 22 22.0 0 22 Nov. 12 -at Penn State.RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG Alaniz 2 49 24.5 0 26 Crossman 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Redmon 1 12 12.0 0 12 
Nov. 19-at N.C. State
Green 57 284 5.0 2 26 Johnson 1 9 9.0 0 9 Jackson 1 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Bouyer 1 5 5.0 0 5 Brooks 41 283 6.9 1 37 Mihalko 1 2 2.0 0 2 Dickerson 1 -3 -3.0 0 -3 Dec. 3 -at Syracuse Rice 35 279 8.0 4 38 NOTRE DAME 25 372 14.9 4 54 UP 4 19 19-19 0-0 0 3-6 142 PITTSBURGH 37 595 16.1 5 76 Johnson 23 108 4.7 1 22 OPPONENTS 68 663 9.8 2 37 OPP 4 10 8-8 1-2 0 5-7 85 OPPONENTS 39 544 13.9 4 36 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  PITTSBURGH OFFENSE  PITTSBURGH DEFENSE  
POS  NO  PLAYER  HT  WT  CL  RE  30  Frank Stams  6-4  237  Sr.  POS  NO  PLAYER  HT  WT  CL  LE  91  Carnal Smith  S-3  24S  Jr.  
SE  80  Steve Alaniz  S·2  19S  Sr.  37  Scott Kowalkowski  6-2  226  So.  SE  81  Henry Tuten  s-o  175  Jr.  94  Nelson Walker  6-3  250  So.  
25  Raghib Ismail  5-10  175  Fr.  LT  S9  George Williams  6-3  282  So.  Baro Baron Jackson  6-1  190  Jr.  LT  89  Tom Sims  S-4  265  Jr.  
QT  SS  Andy Heck  6-7  277  Sr.  87  Tom Gorman  6-6  255  Sr.  L T  71  Tom Ricketts  S-5  285  Sr.  96  Richard Allen  6-3  265  Fr.  
64  Mike Brennan  6-5  246  Sr.  NT  50  Chris Zorich  6-1  2SO  So.  76  Mike Livorio  6-5  250  Fr.  RT  93  Marc Spindler  S-5  270  So.  
QG  52 53  Tim Ryan Winston Sandri  6-4 6-4  245 253  So. So.  RT  92 90  Bryan Flannery Jeff Aim  6-3 S-7  249 24S  Jr. Jr.  LG  72 73  Chris Goetz Bill Cherpak  S-3 6-4  270 270  Jr. Jr.  RE  97 92  Jeff Esters Burt Grossman  6-3 S-0  265 270  Fr. Sr.  
c  55  Mike Heldt  S-4  258  So.  93  Bob Dahl  6-5  248  So.  C  S4  Dean Callgulre  S-3  2S5  Jr.  94  Nelson Walker  6·3  250  So.  
76  Gene McGuire  6-5  265  Fr.  DE  38  Flash Gordon  S-3  214  Sr.  78  John Glesky  6-4  250  Sr.  SLB  58  Curtis Bray  S-4  220  Fr.  
TG  75  Tim Grunhard  6·3  279  Jr.  7  Andre Jones  6-4  215  So.  RG  77  Mark Stepnoskl  S-3  265  Sr.  54  Mike Boykin  6-2  225  Fr.  
72  Joe Allen  6-4  268  So.  MLB  34  Wes Pritchett  6-0  251  Sr.  75  Tony Delazio  6-4  250  Fr.  
TT TE  71 70 86 88  Dean Brown Marty Lippincott Derek Brown Frank Jacobs  S-3 6-5 S-7 6-5  283 284 235 234  Jr. Sr. Fr. So.  ELB  36 42 47  Donn Grimm Mike Stonebreaker Ned Bolcar  6-2 S-1 6-2  224 22S 232  So. Jr. Sr.  RT TE  S2 70 80  Roman Matusz Calvert Jones Vernon Kirk  S-5 6-5 6-2  270 270 250  Jr. Fr. Sr.  MLB WLB  55 46 7 48  Jerry Olsavsky Craig Gob Prentiss Wright Ricardo McDonald  S-2 6-1 5·1 0 6-2  218 220 205 225  Sr. So. So. Fr.  
QB  9 17  Tony Rice Kent Graham  6-1 6-5  198 228  Jr. So.  FCB  1 33  Todd Lyght David Jandric  S·1 6-2  181 192  So. Jr.  FL  82 12  Tom Huebner Bill Osborn  6-6 S-D  250 190  Jr. Sr.  LCB  3 16  Alonzo Hampton Robert Bradley  S-D 5-10  195 185  Jr. Jr.  
FB  22  Anthony Johnson  s-o  225  Jr.  SCB  32  D'Juan Francisco  5-11  187  Sr.  2  Reggie Williams  6-2  190  Jr.  ss  5  Louis Riddick  S-3  210  So.  
TB FL  35 24 40 12 13  Ryan Mihalko Mark Green Tony Brooks Ricky Watters Pat Eilers  6·2 S-D 6-2 S-2 5-11  234 184 218 201 197  So. Sr. So. So. Sr.  SS FS  29 27 26 31 15  Stan Smagala George Streeter Greg Davis Corny Southall Pat Terrell  5-11 S-2 6-1 S-2 6-0  186 212. 198 194 195  Jr. Sr. So. Sr. Jr.  QB TB FB  15 8 27 35 31  Darnell Dickerson Larry Wanke Curvin Richards Ricky Turner Dan Crossman  S-4 6-2 5-10 6-1 S-1  200 195 190 198 195  So. So. Fr. Fr. Jr.  RCB FS  14 25 17 43 24  Marcus Washington Cornell Holloway Michael Hadley Troy Washington Doug Hetzler  6-2 5-11 5-1 0 S-2 6-0  195 185 170 190 190  So. Sr. Sr. Sr. So.  
PK  2 18  Reggie Ho Billy Hackett  5·5 6-1  135 184  Sr. So.  P  1S 14  Jim Sexton Sean Connor  s-o 6-7  188 214  So. Sr.  PK  22 9  Ronald Redmon Scott Kaplan  5-11 6-1  205 180  Fr. Fr.  p  1 4  Yusef Washington Jeff VanHorne  S-2 5-9  200 170  So. Jr.  

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer 


person does against the spread. 
Pete Skiko Jane Shea Steve Megargee Marty Strasen Theresa Kelly Janice Terpin Allen PinkettIn other words, it isn't enough to 
Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Random Student Guest Celebrity
pick the winner of a given game. 
31-24-0 27-28-0 26-29-0 26-29-0 22-33-0 29-26-0 24-31-D

The person must pick the winner 
.564 .491 .473 .473 .400 .527 .436 and give the underdog points. (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 7-7.0)Home team is in CAPS. 
PENN STATE over Cincinnati by 26 Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Bearcats Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Bearcats Bearcats 
SYRACUSE over Rutgers by 7.5 Scarlet Knights Orangemen Scarlet Knights Orangemen Scarlet Knights Orangemen Scarlet Knights MICHIGAN over Michigan State by 13 Wolverines Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Spartans INDIANA over Ohio State by 7 Buckeyes Hoosiers Buckeyes Buckeyes Hoosiers Buckeyes Hoosiers ILLINOIS over Purdue by 7 lllini Boilermakers Boilermakers lllini lllini lllini lllini AIR FORCE over Navy by 21 Falcons Falcons Falcons Midshipmen Falcons Falcons Falcons 
Oklahoma State over COLORADO by 2.5 Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys ALABAMA over Mississippi by 16 Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide OKLAHOMA over Texas by 16 Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners USC over Oregon by 15 Ducks Ducks Ducks Trojans Ducks Trojans Trojans UCLA over Oregon State by 28 Bruins Beavers Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Auburn over LSU by 1 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers War Eagles War Eagles Tigers TCU over Rice by 17 Horned Frogs Owls Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Horned Frogs Owls Horned Frogs Notre Dame over PITTSBURGH by 5.5 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 
Friday, October 7, 1988 



James Brown, and as sources of inspira­. The Groove play songs 
For The World to but a few. The Groove incorporate their own into each set--tunes t fit rather inconspicuously among their tried and true 
But with such a heterogene­mix, what category does Groove fall into? Is The 
a "dance band"? The consensus: NO! "We be Minneapolis funk, that's not totally it," says 
rattles off quickly, , we play jazz, and blues 
n Ken throws a curve , "We play whatever we to play, whatever we 
'Well we're not a rap well. But regardless of how much, or how little, cash flows in, all revenues find their way into a band account for future group endeavors like gigs, recording, and emergency band meetings at Macri's. 

The members of the Groove naturally assumed positions of responsibilty. The monitor­ing of band funds fell under the auspices of trumpeter Bob, while Drummer Brian Doherty, an art major, designs all art work for the group. Harold, who returned to N.D. after graduation last May and took a job with se­curity in order to stay with the band, handles Groove PR. 
The Groove are a lesson in musical chemistry. Each part may be quite potent on its own, some more than others, but together this is a highly volatile solution. They've taken a specific design, a premeditated plan for what 
they wanted in a band, and 
successfully mixed it with 
their talent, drive, and in­
stinct. 
At this point, The Groove are putting together originals between gigs, four of which they'll take into the studio this month their first marketable demo. They're also working on a new live show in preparation for a pos­sible showcase. 
The band consensus is that if their project takes them beyond a college campus, they'll certainly rise to the occasion. Well, this group doesn't need any luck wished upon it; it works hard and plays hard, and will continue to do so if it just stays in The Groove. Sorry, it just had to be said. Catch The Groove tonight at the Sophomore Formal--you won't be disap­pointed. 

The ObMtVer-1111 DoNrurna 
band," says Leroy. Alright then, the marquee will read: Tonight The Groove--the hot­test non-rap outfit this side of any side. 
And the band is certainly hot. The Groove could be 
it big in 'Punchline' 
balance her obligations as a mother, the pressures from an unsupportive husband and the advances of Hanks. The plot develops as Hanks decides to show Fields the ropes of being a good stand­up comedian. This eventually leads to the climactic final scene, which pits them against each other in a con­
test promising to send an amateur to the "big time". 
"Punchline" contains several scenes of humorless emotion which give it surpris­ing depth. Though not com­pletely successful in this pur­pose, parts of the movie are heart-wrenching. One night, Hanks breaks down on stage when his father and brother come to watch his act, and another time Hanks dances a rendition of "Singing in the Rain" when Fields ends his hopes of a serious relation­ship between them. Unfortun­ately, the ending scene does not finish the story, leaving the audience wondering if Hanks can make it in the commercial world or if his instability will prove to be his downfall. 
Sally Fields does an excel­lent job portraying her char­acter. She does not overact her lines and thus fills the role quite naturally. The scenes in Layla's home are some of the best in the movie, something which the director smartly highlighted. These scenes show that real life is full of hilarity. 
Hanks also proves that he possesses other talent besides humor. The Steven Gold char­acter is very complex and demands a good deal from Hanks. 
"Punchline" is more than worth the ticket price. In fact, this movie is perfect to see on a date. Hours of "have I ever told you about..." came from my seeing it. Presently, the movie is showing exclusively in major cities, but hopefully it will come to South Bend. I found it to be a great excuse for spending an evening in Chicago, however. The plot is believable enough and cap­tivates your attention. I'll give "Punchline" four out of five stars. 
busy each weekend gigging-­and then some. Someone might guess there's a bit of money to be made in all this. Are they in it for the money? For an eleven piece band in South Bend, they do pretty 



--~--~-~-~-~­

etc. 

pa~e 12 Friday, October 7, 1988 
Another year older and deeper in debt 
P 
ardon me for mentioning Knapp's, and they gave it to is not a reason for having a saw a child/And he laughing where the lamb lies down 
it, but today--October 7--is me free, and I was happy dog. A dog gives you the best said to me/Pipe a song about with the Lion of Judah? 
my birthday. I'm too old to be with that. I'm not so special thing he has; that is, himself. a lamb' ;;So I piped with Dogs, children, mother-
shy about telling you, and, that I deserve seven cakes, I wonder if John Paul II has a merry cheer .... " Then I will 
anyway, how else would you not when there are children dog. read Graham Greene's essay, 
''Does God, do you
know? Mom and Dad aren't in the world who never have Shakespeare wrote: "When "The Lost Childhood," which going to publish a birthday cakes. I wish I could give we are born, we cry that we ends with A.E.'s verses: "In suppose, save up announcement in The Obser­them some of my cakes. I are come'ro this great stage ancient shadows and 
all the lost 

ver with my baby picture should wish I could give them of fools." It is Lear who twilightsWhere childhood had 
gracing it. some of my birthdays; but I speaks, and he is eighty. He strayed/fhe world's great childhoods in the I love Easter, Thanksgiv­would prefer for them to have is in a happier mood before sorrows were boriVAnd its 
Third World

ing, Christmas and the birthdays of their own. he dies. He proposes to Cor­heroes were madeAn the lost Fourth of July, but all of us I will not mention how old X delia that they "live, and childhood of Judas,.,Christ was countries and givecelebrate those days together. am today. However, I'm old pray, and sing, and tell old betrayed." 
them back to the
tales, and laugh at gilded but­
Does God, do you suppose,
terflies ... and take upon us the children in 
save up all the lost childhoods 
Father Robert Griffin 
mystery of things, as if we 
in the Third World countries Heaven?" 
were God's spies .... " 

and give them back to the
Letters to a Lonely God Once his great rage at children in Heaven? 
hood: how sentimental can
being old and helpless has 

you get when you turn 63? Itburnt out, Lear has the tem­Children are on my mind as all has to do with cake.
God has October 7 marked on enough to have perament of a child in love I write about my birthday, 
His deskpad as the date He grandchildren; sometimes I with gentle things, for these because I'm remembering If you were planning to send me a card in place of a
would keep special for me. So wish that I did. When I see do not humiliate him in his my mother. When she died cake or a present, instead, thanks, Mom, thanks, Dad, the Pope on television with kingly estate. My estate five years ago at 87, she was 
for giving me a place in the children on his lap, I wonder would be kingly if I had the blind, her mind was wander­drop the price of a Hallmark (I'm assuming that you care
sun. I finally found out it if he wishes he had patience to be God's spy, and ing, and she seemed to be enough to send the very best)wasn't the stork that brought grandchildren. The Queen see all the kinds of beauty constantly in the company of into the nearest collection box 
me, but a lark in the night. It Mother in England has that a child or a poet sees. her loved ones in heaven. She was a joke, wasn't it, about grandchildren and great­was worried that the children for saving the children from 
anything harmful. As the Gip­finding me in the cabbage grandchildren; in addition, ''When I see the would get in trouble with the 
patch? You should have the English children bring her nurse, though there wasn't a per said: "I don't know 
known that sooner or later, I flowers on her birthday, and Pope on television child to be seen anywhere in where I'll be then, but I'll 
would find out the truth. then you can see she's a that nursing home. I finally know about it, and I'll be hap­
with children on

Yeats wrote, "The years grandmother to her country. figured out that she was con­py." 
like great black cattle tread Is she happier, do you think, his lap, I wonder if cerned about her own I'm not expecting more 
the worldiAnd God the as a grandmother than John than two or three cards, but 
children who had died in in­
he wishes he had 

that's the way you handle theherdsman goads them on be­Paul is as the Pope? fancy. Is it maudlin to believe 
hind/And I am broken by John Paul could change the grandchildren.'' that those early children overflow if you're the Queen their passing feet." rules and fill up the Catholic came to their mother to walk Mother or the Pope. It's as The years haven't broken rectories with children; but it On my birthday I will read her home? true for me as it is for them: 
me yet; but the years when would be too late, of course, Charles Lamb's "Dream "You never stand taller than 
the birthday cakes keep com­for him. As a matter of fact, Children" and William Who will John Paul and I when you bend down to help a 
ing for a week, I feel slightly it's too late for me, and that's Blake's "Songs of In­have to walk us home, unless child." God save the 
crushed by their abundance. why I have a dog. Dogs don't nocence": "Piping down the God sends us back the Darby children; old timers like me 
Last year, I had only one bring you flowers on your valleys wild-Piping songs of O'Gills who may have can take care of themselves 
cake: I ate lunch at Bill birthda · but love of flowers pleasant leeOn a cloud I preceded us into the land on their birthda s. 
Heres amultiple choice quiz you really can't fail. In fact, it may even improve your G.PA.: • 
Should you buy one of our 

Macintosh·· Plus personal computers? Or one 
of our Macintosh SE personal computers? The answer, of course, depends. If you've been holding out for that 
ever-elusive combination of high performance and affordability, you'll very likely want our 
Nowyou
canD 
Macintosh Plus. It has one full megabyte of RAM.l28K of ROM. And adouble-sided SOOK internal disk drive. 
Translated, that means the Macintosh Plus can plot astatistical formula
asmuc 
or repaginate areport in the time it took you to read this sentence. 
But-ifyou truly want to expand your horizons-we suggest the Macintosh SE. It has ail the attributes of the Plus, plus alittle
tosh 

more. Like one megabyte of RAM, expandable to four megabytes. Awalloping 256K of ROM. As well as an expansion slot that lets you customize the system for your particular needs. 
And to ensure you have plenty of
as you 
space for your growing intellect, theSE gives you achoice of two storage options. Either two built-in SOOK disk drives. Or one built-in 800K disk drive along with an internal 20-megabyte hard disk.
need. 
So even if your term paper begins to reach epic proportions, you can rest assured you'll have room for the whole thing. All six hundred footnotes included. 
1b learn more, visit your campus microcomputer center. They'll gladly answer any questions, including the one your parents will ask: 
How much? 

tl.The power to be yourbesC
The Macinlosh Plus.jJQwnfolandafforriahle 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

---------~ 
page 13

Friday, October 7, 1988 The Observer 
The a..-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Centef, IICC8Pta cluslfled edwlrtiiMng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of H-ugar Conge Cent•, accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five charact1lnl P8f day. 
WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIA MAYBE NEAR NO POST OFFICE. CALL HALL? S.. MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 219-HALL? Sae MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH Shuttle' sponsored by the Student Actlv­NOTICES JULI AT 239-6335. THANKS. MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 482-8989. rtles Offlice, will run this Saturday, Octo­
LOST: BUNCH OF ABOUT t2 KEYS WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE NEED 3 TICKETS TOGETHER FOR CHICAGO BUS TRIP -'Windy City 
MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oc1. II ............................................................ at Bpm In Stepo~n C.ntar lor ONLY $4 ber 8. The bus will leave the Main Circle 
at 8pm In Stepo~n C.ntar lor ONLY $4 
TYPING AVAILABLE to $1011 239-7442 & 284-4626 WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI-NO to $101 239-7442 & 284-4626 at 9:45am and retum at 10pm. Tickets 287-4082 GAME. WILL PAY TOP $. CALL 305-are available at the Information Desk, tat 
You liked them on Paul Simon'•
FOR RENT 
DESPERATL Y need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ 981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. floor LaFortune lor $tO. Next Shuttle will 
Graceland World Tour; You'll love them TYPING 2 MIAMI GAS FOR SALE. CALL 415-in person! Miriam Makaba & Hugh PICKUP & DELIVERY BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE 769-1248 BETWEEN 9AM-5PM Mankela In Concert Sunday, Oc1. 9 I, Motherhen, heraby retrect all state­277-7406 2111-7153. STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL PACIFIC TIME menta made by my sell against 'Garve'. 
287-5451, KEN. run Saturday, October 29. 
at8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & MARY AT It won't happen again 
284-4626 

FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDROOM SOMEBODY MUST HAVE 2 PENN CHRISTMAS SHOPPING WITH AVON HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 TIX 4 SALE STATE GA'S-PLEASE MIKE X1626 MULTICULTIJRAL WEEK GRAND To the English major who loves Latin In 277-7406 ANALE ·MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH
t STU. MIAMI & 1 STU. AIR FORCE my 2:45 TTh Theo 100 course BEST OFFER -X4t79 1 MIAMI HI! Waiting anxiously with baited breath
STUDENT TICKET lor sale, MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 
9 at Bpm In Stepan C.n1ar. 239-7442 & 284-4626 
best offer by 1CY7 at 6pm. 'til Thursday lor your ar11cle. 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING WANTED NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 Call Karin at 2899. The Bio-French major who hates to write. 272-aa27 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288-P.S. What's your by-line? 0968 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT­
G'*• don't deapalrl Let ua put to­ATTENTION FOOD FANATICS I need 8 PENN GA or two sets of 4 Life gather a wonderful gilt from THE MODEL UNITED NATIONS CLUB willDO YOU UKE JAZ2? DO YOU LIKE 
NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY or Death MEGABUCKS offerred call Tim COUNTRY HARVESTER. We deliver to be having Ita llra1 almulllllon on Sun­REGGAE? Than you'll low MIRIAM IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION $$$$. CALL CAROLE 3296. X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300 Notre Dame, St. Mary'a and aand via day, Oc1.111rom 2·5 p.m. In 124 Hayaa­MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­
PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOUI UPS. Store houra Mon.'f'rl. 12-8:30_ Healy. Toplca wtll be chemical weep­cert SUNDAY, OCT-111118pm In Stepo~n 
All RIGHT, ENOUGH SCREWIN' I need 1 Miami, will buy or trade stu. tic. one un, third world debt, nuclear !rae
Center. 239-7442 & 239-4626. 
PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND AROUND--I HAVE LOTS OF MONEY lor any other home game. Call John 2n-Rochester, NY-Riders needed -Beat the zonae, and any1hlng you come up RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECE~ FOR MIAMI TlX. STUD OR GA'S. I WILL 5364. bus Call ANDY 2290 with. Bring .-..oiU11ona and a frland IWHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE 
SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST ALSO TRADE THE RIGHTS TO MY II you need help wtth reeolu11ona, atopHALL? S.. MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH REQUIRED!) FIRST BORN. CALL TOM 3593. Air Force student tix lor sale_ Call x1560. by 413 Cavanaugh In tha evening.
MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 JUNIORS at 8pm In Stepo~n Center lor ONLY $4 
CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272-HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Air Farce stud for sale:3t 1 t JUNIORS FOR SALE ONE-WAY TRIP FROMto $101 239-7442 & 284-4626 
1922. Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much CLASS BOXERS ARE HEREII LONG ISLAND on Oct 21. $40. Colleen $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete Have 2 Miami Stud lix lor sale. Still in $6 283·2291.
TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Booka 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL DAVE at 287-5871. Desperate need of 2 Penn State GAs. YOU CAN PURCHASE ONE AT THE
lor ALL claana atlll available! UN­
AT X1072 Please call heather at 277-3266 aHer 5 CLASS OFACE(2ND FLOOR LAFOR­RIDE OFFERED TO PITTSBURGH EX­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora"a 
NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS p.m. TUNE) EVERY AFTERNOON AFTER ITS. LEAVE FRI. OCT-7, 2:00.
Booka, 808 Howard St.. )uat off of NO 
OVERSEAS JOBS. 2PM OR WITH YOUR DORM REP GET RETURN SUN. OCT_ 8, NIGHT.
PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR Ave. 233-2342_ Summer, 2 TIX TO All HOME GAMES FOR BEHIND THE CLASS OF 1911011 CALL JIM 11135­yr.round-Europa,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala. 
SALE 272-8883 You liked them on Paul Slmon"a 
CARLOS 289·8417 All llelda-$900-2000 mo. Slght-­GREET THE TEAM!
Graceland Wor1d Tour; You'll love them 
lng.Fr.. Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S DESPERATELY INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS "Job The football team will retum from the Pitt1n person! Miriam Makeba & Hugh 
IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. FOR SALE: CALL ED AT 268-6207 Saerch Tachnlquaa" WORKSHOP game shortly aHer 10 p.m. Saturday night 
Mankela In Concert Sunday, Oct_ 9 t MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE October t 0, 7:00 p.m. Career & Place­
student ticket--BEST OFFER--call Mary at the main circle_ On-campus travel representative or or­I need 2 Penn St GA's. I have 4 AF ment Career libraryat Bpm In Stepan Center. 239-7 442 & 
at# 2286

284-4626 ganization needed to promote Spring GA's. II you are willing to trade, sell, or All international students are invited. I am looking lor 4 GA's to any horne Break trip to Florida or Texas. Earm Tan Canadian hoaaheada are coming buy, please call John at 2089. Sponsored by Career & Placement Ser­football game. I have very little moneyMULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND 
money, free trips, and valuable work ex­down lor the MIAMI game, and they're vices. but I would be willing to trade my services FINALE -MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH perience. Call Inter-Campus Programs: bringing Ice cold Canadian beer and as a photographer in exchange. Any size MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 
t-800-433-7747. a bunch of funny looking money with NEED MIAMI GA'S black and white portraits available. It In­9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 !ham_ Thay'ra ollerlng both beer and BIG BUCKSIII NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE,ITHACA terested call # 3331.
& 284-4626 RIDE OFFERED TO PITTSBURGH EX­ceah lor GAa. Good deal, eh? CALL MATT AT (219) 484-9080 OR ROCHESTER FOR BREAK.CALL ITS. Call Marty Ill 1471 8 AM -5 PM, M-F ALYSSA-2732 YOU HAVE BETTER THINGS TO DOl 
LEAVE FRIDAY, OCT_ 7 AT 2:00. CONDIT WOMAN God she's finally 211Sand your package via UPS at DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA TIX Even though you become 'belligerent"
RETURN SUN. OCT. 9 AT NIGHT. CALL JIM 1935. 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER HELP MElli!
Student Tlcketa lor Sale TOGETHER FOR PENN STATE CALL when inebriated I'll make sure you'll avoid 
located lor your convenience In tha I NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S CALL 
1395 the tile floor tonrtel Love ya,
banment of DEBBIE x4980 Ole
NEEDED: RIDE FROM ST. LOUIS TO NO SELL OR TRADE(FOR MIAMI STUD)-3 i;·y~·~··~~··;~·~~· th'~i··~~~~~-~-~~·~r THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Two Miami Tickers RIDERS WANTED 
Anyone needing to eouthern
Oct. 23 pm and a ride
OPEN MON-FRI 12:~:30 AF, 3 RICE, t PS STUD.GUIDO 258-you in the Haggar center Wednesday
Three Air Force Tickers Fairfield Ct,
in exchange for 5916 RIDE TO STL OCT. t6
(Not an agent of UPS). night, sorry, I didn't see your messege
N.Y. City, or anywhere along rout& 80 until Thursday. Maybe we could try Itaaat.
Kathy x3781
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NEED 3 GA'S FOR PENN STATEIII Will again?
Call Will at 283-2089 and make your Will be leaving early Oc1.16-0NE WAY 
MRS. COKER 233-70011. pay $$$$$.Please call MG at 284 5112. OJ
BE$T OFFER! ONLY! 
Call Matt at # 3610t roommate needed-3 bedroom house. 

FOR SALE:2 STUD. TIX FOR AIR ITALIAN CLUB SHIRTSTHE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE About 3 miles from campus. Male, grad. 
FORCE CALL 284-5160 SOLD OUT
BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, HELP! NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 277-t513
Call 287-4240 or 7650. Ask lor Ashok or TO ORDER CALL: VIenna x1833
OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIAEDS IN PLEASE SELL MIKE WADE YOUR
Jeff. 
I NEED RICE TIXIII

BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12_ Need 2 PENN STATE Tix Will pay$ or MIAMI GA TICKETS. 
watch lor Vision Need nde to Pgh. lor break-will pay. CJ watch lor Vision 
Let's be serious --you don't want to see
trade other GA's Sean x1352 HIS PARENTS ARE MAD ENOUGH 
us play Rice, but my family does. I need x4009 watch lor Vision
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR THAT HIS SISTER ACCIDENTLY TOOK 
8 tickets lor the game. II you can help,
TYPING-WORDPROCESSING Need Rice GA's and Penn State Ga's HIS CAR KEYS BACK TO NEW JERSEY 
please call me at 283-1 069 ask lor The
237-11149 Abe x1352 WITH HER LAST WEEK. NOTHING
Ride needed to Cleveland lor break. 
Beeler. Prefer to leave after Miami game. Will 
ELSE GOES RIGHT FOR HIM EITHER. "TANTALIZING TANYA' lnterden'tl Bible Study (Inter VarSity Ch­HELP HIM...287-9870 HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ill
Need 2 GAs (not student) lor Miami. Call nallan Fellowship) A good way to get to 284-5666. We luv Ya, share expenses and can drive. Call 
MIAMI STUD TICKET FOR SALE X4565 Mathew between 4 and 6 pm or late night 
BEST OFFER BY 1010 at 234-3250.
know us· Come to our Bam Party Sat­Deb, Jules, and Kel 
urday mght. II you can't make it, come 
NEED A HOTEL FOR THE MIAMI NEEDED: Dealers lor Senior Fa­
Miami tckt. lor sale.Married student so RIDE NEEDED TO
to the next study Thursday, 7 pm, 3 t 7 WEEKEND? I need tickets for the game. thei'IDaughter Weekend Casino Night HEY KG !Ill HAPPY WEENIE DAY!! YOU 
no id req.,call 277-7296

Lew1s. II you can, call Jim (283 162t) or KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS ... M&D 
Let's talk trade: your tix lor my Friday Oct.8 You must be 21 years of age. II Andreas (287 4855) for details BREAK.WILL SHARE EXPENSES EN­and Saturday night reservations at the interested call Connie at SMC Student THIS WEEKEND!!! THANKS FORDA YTON-COLUMBUS,OHIO FOR 
HELP ELP HELP HELP Need MIAMI TERTAINING CONVERSATION 
hotel on # 31 that rhymes with Test Tinns Activites -264-4562 for details. EVERYTHING, --BYOU KNOW WHO WANTED· MIAMI T-SHIRTS FOR AN 
stud tix Bill 2445 GUARANTEED! CALL SUDHAMA:234­
and starts with a B. Call Man at x3500 OBSERVER PHOTO SPREAD. or x3633. To tha Boya who put In the Belinda
5782 AFTER 5 
TIX 4 SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIR F_ STU­
T-SHIRT VENDORS· PLEASE CALL II you came to last week's C.rllale Peraonal ... # 1827 MAKE YOUR OFFER.
ROB AT 277-6224 AND LEAVE NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE ANTI APARTHEID VIGIL It Ia amazing how Intelligent you could 
A MESSAGE SO THAT WE MAY AR­GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL THANK YOU! eound with a n-11111tude and a wired RANGE A TIME 
One Miami stud. ticket call 2171.
CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE COME AGAIN AND BRING A FRIEND
FOR SALE ~-­
AND PLACE SO THAT YOUR T-SHIRT CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223-2440 Follow the example of We NO Men by
AIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE
MAY APPEAR EXT. 7772. FRI. t2:15 DOME STEPS not taking out frustrations of your own In IN A PHOTO SPREAD OF ALL OF THE verbal slams against others... 
2 GA'S AND t STUD TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" 
ALSO COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS
SHIRTS. DO NOT BE LEFT OUT MIAMI 
NEED 4 USC TIX FOR "BOOGERI" -MAKE OUR VOICE TWICE AS LOUD T-SHIRT VENDORS DO NOT BE LEFT CARL 4073 RIDERS NEEDED TO
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S TAX. OR A t 9" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS 
CALL ERIC AT X3573 ATTENTION ALL FAC MEMBERS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE 
OUT DO NOT BE LEFT OUT MIAMI T­CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Tha FAC haa cancelled DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­SHIRT VENDORS DO NOT BE LEFT 
I need Miami Tix 27t -831 t NEED tO Miami Tx. GA or Std. Would 
tonlta'a m..tlng.

OUT like in grps. of 2 if possible. 233-265t. LEAVING AFTER MIAMI GAME, RE­
TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 
FAC FAC FAC FAC FAC

HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI ....................................................... TURNING SUNDAY 1M!3. CALL X4253 
THE SUSPICIOUS RED MARKS ON 
GAS. CALL DEBBIE X2667 2 MIAMI STUD TIX 4 SALE x1765 SMACKIN MACKIN'S NECK ARE 2 LONELY BLOND ITALIAN WOMEN Round Trip Ohare-Aibuquerque Oct 14­THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE 
19. Kathy x4821
BIRTHMARKS-LET ME REPEAT BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, 
I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'S-KRIS x2804 FOR SALE: 3 MIAMI STUDENT TICK­DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO 
BIRTHMARKS EVEN THOUGH THEY ETS. CALL BRENT AT # 3065_ OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIAEDS IN AREA OCTOBER
D.C. FOR BREAK.

Round trip ticket from SB to Newark 1 013 BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12.
ARE ONLY NOTICEABLE AFTER A -1M!3 call John 277-2454 Need 2 Miami G.As will pay $$ or trade DON'T LEAVE US BEHIND! CALL LISA LATE FRIDAY OR SATURDAY NIGHT! 
2 PENN STATE GAs or 2 45-yard line Need 2 AF GA's. My parents sold theirs 284-4346 
HELPII need a ride to Pittsburgh on Qct_
AIR FORCE GAs Call John # t 805 and then decided they wanted to see the game. Mark 1913 SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­15 ASAP following the Miami game_ Will cluding keyboard, green-screen monrtor, share expenses. Mike x4t41
NEED 2 MIAMI GA's CALL JOE 2054 BUSSES TO THE FORMALdisk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­
1 AIR FORCE STUD. FOR SALE ARE LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE
LOST/FOUND I 

pleworks word procassor, blank data dis­I NEEED 2 PENN ST. GA'a NOWII WILL
I NEED A MIAMI & AN AIR FORCE GA CALL MATT AT# 3610 AT 8 AND 11:30 lor my Pa. ANY QUESTIONS, CALL 239-5225 ks. $950 or best oNer. Call Brian at 283­PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL 
348t. 

NEED 4 TICKETS TO OCT 22 OR NOV JASON AT x4141.
PLEASEHELPMEFINDMY 
Pa is coming from Maul and has $t 20. S U E D E J A C K E T I HOPEFULLY Call Chris at t 355 RIDE NEEDED TO PHILL Y lor break;
19 GAME. CALL COLLECT AFTER 7 
STAR 24-pin printer, !Ike new, must sell,
PICKED UP WHILE CLEANING AT THE PM (216) 255-8503 ASK FOR CINDY. JUNIORS SMC AND NO DON'T FOR­will pay $ Call Dan 1765
259-7065. 

GET TO GET YOUR DOGBOOK PIC­FARLEY BARN DANCE FRIDAY NIGHT NEED 4 P. ST. GA'S 
DANIEL BOONE STYLE, TAN WITH FOR SALE-MIAMI STUDENT TICKET TURES TAKEN OCTOBER 10-13 Dear Mom,
WILL PAY TOP$$ X3201
ONE-WAY BUS TRIP FROM LONG I~ 
BEST OFFER 264-4335

LONG FRINGES AND FIFTY, YES I'm doing fine here at the University of
LAND to N.D. on Oct.21. $40. Colleen SMC JUNIORS DONT FORGET TO
FIFTY BUCKS IF YOU CAN TELL ME Our lady. This weekend we play Pitt and 
283-2291. 

4 MIAMI STU. TIX AVAILABLE. BRIAN AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET FOR GET YOUR DOGBOOK PICTURES
ANYTHING ABOUT IT AT ALLI CALL next weekend, well, y'know, we play JEN AT X4238 OR 403 FARLEY. I WILL Miami. Please pray lor the guys; we need
269-8020 SALE CALL LIZ SMC # 4386 TAKEN MON. OCT-10 FROM 4:30 TO 
FOR SALE ONE MIAMI STUD TICKET
DIE A HAPPY WOMAN REMEMBER, 8:30 LAMANS HALL It!
Best Offer Call Chris 1052
FIFTY BUCKS 1111 SEWNG STUD AIR FORCE AND RICE HELP! I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUDENT 
Love Always,TIX. CALL CHRISTINE '4814 OR GA. MY FAMILY NEEDS A PLACE My GRANDFATHER WENT OVER­
Your Son

8t Toyota Tercel 4-spd 2-dr coupe. Frnt 
IN THE STANDS TO SEE NO BEAT BOARD AGAIN_ .. I HAVE 4 RICE GA'S. 
Lost: NO class nng, gold with Q.reen 
whl drive. Very reliable. 78,000 mi. Tires HAVE G.A.'SI NEED $NEGOTIABLE. CALL KATRINA X4678_ TDS Happy AnniverSISry, the time spent
I MIAMI YOU MIAMI. CALL BRIDGET AT 284-5075stone. Reward oNered. Call Dean 277­and battery 2 yrs old. BIG TRUNK HOLD THEM! CALL JOE NOW AT 2008 AND with you has been awsomel Thanks lor
4673. V4 KEG! $t ,500. Jennifer, 259-5906 MAKE AN OFFERII NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY TOP$ must sell plane ticket from mishawaka being such a great lriend,and a ternllc # 1913 -JOHN international to newark! flight leaves 
lover. I LOVE YOU!! LOSTI Sometime on Saturday, Green RAE
friday october 141 70$ or best offer call F1eld? A green emerald, ftoeting heart 
I NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'SI CALL 271-brian 3574 
TICKETS HELPI HELPI HELPIIII Buay tonight?
necklace 02781 THANKS! 
Our roornllla lan'llLola of sentimental valuellll II found, Rachel Crossen, Are you mad at me? II

PERSONALS Do you know Karen Cerbone?
please call Kate at 277-9609. 
Miami St Tick FOR SALE. Chris 3373 so, maybe I can explain. Dave from En­
Do you know that her roomates are taking glish
S$$ Reward S$S$ NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­
off TONIGHT at 5 p.m. lor an evening of NEED ONE STUD TICKET lor MIAMII N.D. CANDYBALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272.0058. 
wineing and dining and Super1ection in

S$S$$ STACY KELLY
Please call KIM x4420 Personalized Notre Dame, Green-Whrte a beautiful, cozy Michigan City suburban Happy Birthday! 
Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check 
LOST: Cas1o l(x) 100 calculator between home? Do you know how guilty they
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME Even though I'm not going to be here, I
HELP!

Keenan Hall and Lafortune on Friday, to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 39t t would feel leaving her behind--­
GAMES.272-6306 wanted you to know that I'll be thinking
I heve $90 and am DESPARATELY in S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­
September 2. NO JACKET. Chris 3373. DATELESS?! Do you know anyone will­
about you. Remember: TT-Ll Luriches
need of two MIAMI GA's. 1338. 
desparely need 2 gas lor miami (upset) are the greatest and here we come Miami ing to be her date? II you're Interested
Call JIM at x1010STOLEN: Braun Electric Razor from game 2723491 game! Celebration next weeki Love, or can be bribed, let us know ASAP 
Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher
Campusvlew at a Friday night 2-7. I know before Karen feels like a REAL LOSER1
Marisue 

how people are a Her a long night of drlnk­Call 37111 and leaw you nama, num­
NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SIII $IS NO 
TORCH needs two tickets lor the Mlarni
ing.Pieaae return. Call: Ed 277-Q530 PROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 277-Dear Kevin, ber, ehort blo, and name ol the pareon
game or he will die. Call CHRIS at 3322 TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO SIGN
Thanks 3997. You mean everything to me, and paying you to an._rthta ad, and, oh,
and keep the FLAME alive_ UP FOR A SENIOR REFLECTION 
how well you llka your fila! mignon_ LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH ON STEP­Signed, her concenned roomata. ­
I love you so much.

GROUPI STOP BY THE C.S.C. 
NEED PENN ST. TKTS.(ST OR GA) It's true whet they say: 
I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUD. OR GA.HAN FIELDS -CALL BRET 1389 OR WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER Absence makes the hear grow fonder. P.S. Check p. 27 ol the Claaa ol 90
CALL MIKE 1882.

t376 DO YOU LIKE JAZ2? lfo YOU LIKE your Mary Oogbook_ Thla Ia NOT a Joke.
HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALL JOE 277­
REGGAE? Than you'll low MIRIAM
0725 LOST Gold Hoop Earrlngll Call 284-MAEKBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­
NEED 3 AF GA'S. REBECCA 4953. 5171 II found. PLEASE HELP ME FIND cert Sunday, Oc1. 9 at 8pm In Stepo~n SENIORS! SENIORS! RUSH STREET see CLASS, page 8 MY EARRINGIIII NEED MIAMI GA'S. t063. NEED 3 MIAMI GAs. Call JJ at 166t Center. 239-7 442 & 284-4626. IS WAITING! 
Friday, October 7, 1988 

TASTE OF NATIONS 
OCTOBER 8~ 1988 
9:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. STEPAN CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
* 
Food From All Over The World 

* 
Student Entertainment 

* 
DJ All Night Long

* 
Dance Contests 


I I I 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
-
Friday, October 7, 1988 The Observer 
page 15 


By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Humble, hardworking, hope­ful and almost always harried. 
This is sophomore Tracey Shelton, and when she's not on the volleyball court honing her skills as a left side hitter for three hours each day, you may find her in class or at the li­brary studying. You might even find her running errands for her job in the Administra­tion Building. 
Just about the only place you won't find Shelton is sitting down in her room doing noth­ing. 
"I just need to keep myself busy," Shelton said. "I go 
'Cats 
continued from page 20 
its inability to keep a lead. Un­til recently, Notre Dame has jumped out to big leads but has rarely capitalized. 
"We must keep our momen­tum in order to put teams away," said Lambert. "A 5-0 lead is great, but we must con­tinue to add to the lead and not let teams catch up and create a change in momentum." 
The Irish have never beaten the Wildcats, including a loss in five games at Notre Dame last year. 
As of late, the Irish have had a balanced .attack using up to seven players. Seniors Zanette Bennett, Maureen Shea, Whit­ney Shewman, and Mary Kay Waller have all but destroyed 
but nothing--even a number of outstanding games--insures a players continual presence in that position. 
"Things fluctuate all the time," said Shelton. "I'm not going to be perfect every day, so I've just got to keep working hard and concentrating on never making mistakes. Other­wise, someone else will step into the lineup." 
But even after stepping down for now to let fellow sophomore Colleen Wagner fill her shoes as left side hitter, Shelton still continues to make positive con­tributions to the team. 
the last four opponents. Sop­homores Colleen Wagner and Tracy Shelton both have stepped in to give Notre Dame added punch on the left side, while freshman setter Julie Bremner consistently has played well. 
Senior Mary Kay Waller has been particularly effective, compiling numerous blocks and an extremely high hitting percentage. She attributes the team's recent success to many areas. 
"The weak teams have been confidence builders for us along with the fact that we are playing at home," stated Wal­ler. "Our intense practices have made us enjoy winning even more." 
The Irish are entering the most difficult portion of their toughest schedule ever. 

she and Lambert are talking about the same person. 
"My serving needs to be more consistent," said Shelton, "and I really have to improve my hitting. My blocking would have to be my biggest weak­ness and even with my defense and quickness as my strong points, I still have a lot of work to do." 
Shelton is the last to mention her own attributes and the first to pass the credit for her recent strong play. 
"My teammates have been so supportive," said Shelton. "I was afraid they would think I was inferior, but they're al­ways behind me to encourage me and back me up. 
"And I have to thank God, because He's the only reason I'm getting through this season," continued Shelton. "He gave me this talent and the potential to do this, and He's always there to give me a little push when I need it." 
For now, Shelton will bide her time until the Irish need her to step in again to spark the offense with her hitting or add stability to the defense. But she will continue to divide her time between the court, the class­room and her chores in the Ad­ministration Building. 
"She's just a great, well­rounded person who is grateful for the opportunity to play for Notre Dame," said Lambert. She's what being a student­athlete should be all about." 
Join The Observer 

ENGINEERING JOBS Don't send blind resumes! Use our weekly listing of best opportunities nation-wide. $14/12 issues. JOBNET. POB 12817, LAKE PARK, FL 33403-0817. SPECIFY YOUR MAJOR: ME, CE, OREE. 
crazy if I have too much time on my hands. That's why I love volleyball so much. It's never easy, and sometimes I feel like I'm not going to make it. But when you get to the end of the day, you feel like you've ac­complished something." 
And these days, Shelton has had reason feel· good about her accomplishments. 
She joined the team last year in October as a walk-on and after a year of learning Notre Dame's system, stepped into a starting role against Purdue, Rice and Northwestern. 
Shelton got the starting nod in the first match of her career against the Boilermakers and tallied 10 kills and 15 digs for 
All Times
,' 8:00 0 10:15 
. Cushin8 Auditorium
l $2.00 children under 13 -$1 
the Irish in a losing cause. 
She then contributed seven kills and seven digs as a starter in Notre Dame's three-game victory over Rice, which earned her another starting as­signment against Northwes­tern. 
SIEGFRIED HALL celebrate PRESENTS: Mass with 
g· ~fftie;J'' Join us on Oct. 8 Fr. "Monk" Malloy 
ND vs. Pitt
at ti!l 
on Big Screen TV 
~~\ A
f(g0.to.tdo.g ~· oob,
t~ Half-time cookout f.\,\,\ 
~~ f~ 

Friday, October 7, 1988 

Beth-No~ ~ o·~ ~ /{,~ 

:r ~ 
. . . 
c·-~ 
~ j ~~rA;uo.:o~~~ . 1h ~ r 


~ ~~ ' ~~~~-r rp 
J.r v tJ~~-

~~­
~~~~!j~!!J~ ~~ -~ 


4· . ~ 
~~ 
Y1\ ~ . ~ 
~
~~J0).-

~~""-./. 

. 'f,.#IJA~ ~ 0;. ' .
~'(A.~ • ~~ ~ 
~ u ~~. <i +Jt.A~~ a~O . . 7e ~~~ . 
~ ~~;,) ~~ ~ ~~ (!:>OAAtT ~ l v~y\)~~r
.1~~&.~~ ~-~ ~~c: 

-
---, 
j

Friday, October 7, 1988 The Observer page 17 
j 

Weiss single leads A's past Bosox 4-3 
Associated Press Dodgers-Mats update 
BOSTON -Rookie Walt NEW YORK -The New York Weiss, the ninth-place hitter in Mets wanted a split in Los An­a lineup of sluggers, singled geles and David Cone needed home the tie-breaking run in an eraser. the ninth inning Thursday night The Mets accomplished their and the Oakland Athletics beat goal at Dodger Stadium, but the Boston Red Sox 4-3 for a Cone may never be able to for­commanding 2-0 lead in the get what happened in his first American League playoffs. postseason start. 
The Athletics headed home, The Mets had stunned the where they swept all six games Dodgers and Ore! Hershiser in from Boston this season and Game 1 of the National League have won 14 of the last 15. playoffs by rallying for three Game 3 is Friday night with runs in the ninth inning for a Oakland's Bob Welch facing 3-2 victory. Mike Boddicker. The Dodgers were emotion-
Jose Canseco, who led the ally down Wednesday night but majors with 42 home runs and got their inspiration from an 124 RBI, homered for the unexpected source. second straight game and In a column written for the Mark McGwire hit an RBI New York Daily News on Wed­single in the seventh for a 3-2 nesday, Cone said Los Angeles lead before Rich Gedman's reliever Jay Howell reminded home run in the bottom half of him of "a high school pitcher" the inning tied it. and that Hershiser was lucky 
But while Oakland's Bash to shut out the Mets for eight Brothers brought the Athletics innings. 
back against Roger Clemens, it was the bottom part of the order that won it. Ron Hassey singled with one out against Red Sox relief ace Lee Smith and took third on Tony Phillips' two-out single. That brought up Weiss, a .389 hitter against Bos­ton this year, and he escaped an 0-2 hole against the fast-balling Smith and lined a single just in front of diving center fielder Ellis Burks. 
Dennis Eckersley, who led the majors with 45 saves, got his second save of the series. Gene Nelson went one inning for the victory while Smith, who got out of a first-and-third jam in the eighth by retiring Canseco and Dave Parker on fly balls, took the loss. 
Prior to Game 2, the Dodgers posted Cone's article on the clubhouse wall and said his words showed no respect. 
The Dodgers scored five runs on five hits in two innings to chase Cone and went on for a 6-3 victory to even the best-of­seven series at one game apiece. 
Thursday was a travel day and the series resumes Friday night at Shea Stadium with the Dodgers' John Tudor pitching against Ron Darling. 
The joke in the Dodger club­house after Game 2 was that they gave Cone plenty of time to meet his deadline. 
"I can't understand what was going through Cone's mind," winning pitcher Tim Belcher said. 
WAKE UP MARY CLAIRE 
IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY! 
[llffiJ])[}J)J 
~([Jffi]Jg 
P.S. C.M.
'J 
y 
C.H. P.O. 
J.F. M.H. Todd# 38 

ttf8PREt£1/Tt.· 

SUNDAY 
Place: Montgomery Theater 1st Floor LaFortune Show times: 2:30PM 9:30PM 
--------------------• 
j j j 


AP Photo Mark McGwlre (lett) and Jose Canseco (right) championship series. The Athletics defeated the have reason to celebrate as the Oakland Athletics Boston Red Sox 4-3 Thursday night to take the head home with a 2-0 lead In the American League commanding series lead. 
Kalamazoo nips SMC soccer 1-0 
By MOLLY McNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team was narrowly defeated Wednesday by Kalamazoo Col­lege, the eighth-ranked team in Division III, by the score of 1-0. 
Kalamazoo's only goal came 23 minutes into the contest on a lucky shot as the Kalamazoo forward took the ball from fif­teen yards out and the shot bounced over the head of the 
occer 

continued from page 20 
will take the field against this weekend. 
He said that a victory would not only build momentum en­tering the stretch run of the season, but also would help bring more national respect to the Irish soccer program. 
"The proper respect has not come yet," says McCourt, "but it's changing now. This game is a big factor concerning how people will look at us." 
McCourt will play Sunday despite _a broken toe suffered in the Sept. 9 game against In­diana. He is just one in a long line of walking wounded that 
Since The New Republic has been thrashing George Bush for Ques­tioning Dukakis's Patriotism, we were interested to note a sentence in a recent issue: "Even patriots, arc only mumbling along (with the Pledge]." Even patriots? Are palri· ots some son of fringe group? Aren't we all patriots? Apparently 
not. At least not To subscribe In Na-when we (we lib-tiona/ Rt'Vit'M' call crals) are talking t-800-341-1522. or 
among ourselves. write NR, !50 East 35th Street. New 
York. NY 10016 

Belles' goalie, Lisa Carter. 
"It's unfortunate that the deciding goal had to be one that was undeserved," said coach Tom Van Meter. "We had plenty of opportunities, but we just couldn't convert." 
The Belles' catch-up attempt was led by valiant efforts from Mollie Meehan and Tricia Troester, who average a goal a game for the Belles. 
The second half was 
have forced both coaches to shuffle their lineups. 
"If the game were today we'd be missing four starters," says Grace. "Steve and Paul LaVigne, Tiger and Danny Stebbins all have missed prac­tice this week with injuries." 
Akron has been so plagued by injuries that the Zips have not been able to establish any consistency in their lineup. 
"We've played 12 games, and only two players have been healthy enough to play in all of them," said Parker. "We can't keep the same team together." 
The Zips will have played five games in nine days when the teams kick off Sunday, while the Irish will be well­rested. They were given an un-
Before Johnson came to Miami in 1984, the percentage
Miami 
of Hurricane football playerscontinued from page 20 who graduated was less than future games at Notre Dame, 30. Johnson has brought that at Louisiana State (considered figure over 70 percent. the toughest place in the country to win) and against And Miami did have a Arkansas. Rhodes scholar last year.
The story berates Miami and Notre Dame did not. 
J h f l k f d · Th' 1 · · · 
0 nson Or a aC 0 aca emlC lS CO Umn lS not pralSIDgstandards and says "No we Jimmy Johnson or Miami. I 
' ' 

may not have any Rhodes hate them, too, but not for any 
--iiiii(g~:2il~~----..:::s.:::ch::;o;;.;l:.=a:=.:rs;;.;.:.:..;":..."______
r 


1 
·"'•''' ''"''""'"'' 

?t!Wte ememadte~ 
ND Communication and Theatre
RzN~rAl 

Film Series at the Snite 
=·:-:~~.!. ~:o"'-::;;.:;.:::;.:·~.!.~:;"'...:;';:,:O:,~::!!:v~"""" • 
L!l CAIAIINl!ll (IM..J)
..._,00 
Jean-l.uc Godard dlrKII fhll -~·and Ufi¥ parable oboul ftW llupldlty of war 01 two clodhoppera Ml out to light for their ldng In 
•xd1onge for "ol the tr•a.ur• of the wand" 
"'"""''LM""a"..., 
=:..'!'cmftodd•omoobout.,..cO<WiciH-fondowhohlulc go Jlrolght bJI fndllhol fbt• • ogolnll ~ 
TWO W!!I(J IN ANDlH. TOWN (1M2) 
Tueadav 7:00 
Klrlt Oougla~, Edword G ~,..,. ~ C~. and George Hamilton 
liar In !~•lory otiM pr~ of a cOlt ondcr.wprodudng a 11m on 
locotlonhlbne. 
AL'""''.wz""" 
~:o~:.Acod«nyAwo-da,llobFolle'tflmllomtuf.,PeceofONIGHT AT THE SNITE :~:.~':h:!..~.;.~:v=~~·::.:..~~·~oo:!·~· 
7:30, 9:45 CALL THE FILM HOTLINE 239-7361 
L---------------------~A~o~w~o~RK~sw 
dominated by the Belles' im­pressive execution of offensive passing and defensive attack. 
"We dominated the second half entirely," said Van Meter. "I was extremely happy with our field play, unfortunately we just couldn't put the ball in the net." • 
The Belles travel to Wheaton College Saturday to try to return to their winning ways. They return home Sunday to face Indiana. 
expected blessing when Wed­nesday's scheduled game at Valparaiso was cancelled, giving them extra time to heal and prepare for Akron. 

A victory would boost the team into third place in the region, which would merit serious consideration from the NCAA selection committee. 
But for now, Grace is focus­ing his attention on Akron and trying not to look ahead to rankings and the tournament. 
"I'll be concerned about where we stand a month from now," he says, "but now I'm just worried about Sunday." 
Ah, yes. Sunday. The day Notre Dame soccer moves into the national spotlight. 
of the cheap-shot reasons out­
lined in yesterday's Observer. 
What Holtz was trying to do through his letter, and what the athletic department is trying to do through the activities planned for the upcoming Spirit Week, is channel the stu­dent anti-Miami sentiment into tasteful form-not libelous ac­cusations like the ones in the "Johnson rebuttal" story. All 
that story did was show that there are some people who will go a long way in making the Notre Dame student body look bad in its pre-Miami spirit. 
Let's get pumped Up. Let's 

get a little crazy for the biggest gl'ta!'le oflthes year. Bluikt let'se'do 
m a cas y way, e w ve always done it in the past. 
---~ ---~------------~-~-­
r---~-~----_..--~----------~­
I The Observerpage 18 
I lnterhall roundup
l 
BP finally grabs first victory 
By MARK SLOAN Sports Writer 
Breen-Phillips got its first win of the season by a convinc­ing margin over winless Badin, 20-0. 
BP's offensive attack was led by running back Christie Alkidas, who ran for two touch­downs. 
Badin's offensive woes con­tinued as its quarterback threw four interceptions. Karen Marsh was on the receiving end of two, Anne Broderick and Kate Mapother each grabbed one. Mapother returned hers 30 yards for a Badin score. 
"This win was a real shot in 
the arm," remarked team cap­
tain Marsh. "Now we know how 
to win, hopefully we can do 
more of it." 
Farley 14, PE 6: Farley's 
dominance of women's Inter­
hall football continued as it 
defeated PE Wednesday. 

Quarterback Colleen McGil­lis was responsible for both of Farley's scores. She ran the ball in from 43 yards out for one score, and passed a 30 yar­der to Jennifer Salmon for an­other. Farley was 1 for 2 on con­version attempts as Tammy Goodwin scored two points. 
Women's Interhall football continues Sunday with the fol­lowing games: Lyons (2-1) vs Farley (5-0): Un­defeated Farley puts its league lead on the line again against Lyons. Farley's defense al­lowed its first points of the season on Wednesday, but it is still the most forbidable in the league. Lyons' counterattack is led by running back Debbie Niichel, who is certain to pose a threat. 
Breen-Phillips (1-2) vs Walsh (2­
2): BP got its first win Wednes­
day, and team captain Karen 
Marsh hopes the "taste of win­
ning" inspires her team to an­
otlller victory Sunday. Walsh 
hopes to rebound from a disap­
pointing loss to Siegfried. 

Siegfried (2-1) vs Badin (0-5): 
Siegfried's offense is hot, and 
although Badin is winless, its 
defense is tough. This game 
will be decided by either 
Siegfried's defense or Badin's 
offense. Badin's offense has 
been all but productive so far, 
but the fact that this is their 
last game may provide some 
extra incentive. 

PW (2-1) vs Knott (1-3): Knott, 
after opening the season with 
three losses, is ready to win 
again, after shutting out 
Howard 8-0 in its last contest. 
PW lost its first game last Sun­
day to Farley. 

Lewis (3-1) vs Howard (1-2): 
Lewis started the season off 
with a loss, Howard with a win. 
Lewis, behind its strong 
defense and the leadership of 
qu8trterback Ellen Mouch, is thE! favorite. 
as a surprise to many people, runners as having a vital role. but not to him. "We've got to run together, 
"I think in other people's more as a team," said eyes I've been successful," O'Rourke. "We've got to get said O'Rourke. "In my mind our fifth, sixth, and seventh I'm running where I should be man closer with the top." running." Michigan also will be sending 
At last year's National Cat-Brad Barquist, who qualified 
Women 
continued from page 20 
Connelly says that this is be­
cause she finally began to 
believe that she could do well. 
Now he wants to see this same 
attitude in freshman Kevaleen 
Ryan and sophomore Terese 
Lemanski. 
One runner whom the Irish 
are counting on is freshman 
Lucy Nusrala. She placed third 
against Georgetown in the first 
meet and 12th last week, estab­
lishing herself as one of the 
team's top runners even though 
she is only a freshman. 
Nusrala had a stellar cross 
country career in high school, 
placing third in the Oregon 
state championships, and she 
also ran well in track. 
"She knows what we need 
and she goes out and does it," 
Connelly said. "She's not in­
timidated. She has the poten­
tial to be a national qualifier." 
Connelly notes that it is tough 
for a freshman to be competi­
tive right away, but Nusrala, a 
native of Corvallis, Ore., is 
taking it in stride. 
"So far it hasn't been that 
bad handling both," she says. 
Nusrala did not anticipate 
her success here because she 
had heard that running in col­
lege is much tougher than at 


Friday, October 7, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A_ pair of twins will be facing off against each other d~rmg Satu~day's Notre Dame-Pittsburgh football game. Insh defensive end Devon McDonald and Pitt linebacker Ricardo McDonald are twins born in Kingston, Jamaica, who moved to the United States when they were 12 years old. -Associated Press 
The Seattle Mariners, the only franchise in major league baseball history that never has had a winning season, cleaned house Thursday by firing manager Jim Snyder and three of his coaches. -The Observer 
The NDISMC Ski Team has its turtlenecks back. Anyone who plans to go to Steamboat or try out for the team must attend the meeting Tuesday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. For those planning on going to Steamboat, bring a $100 deposit to reserve a spot. -The Observer 
WVFI-640 AM will begin its coverage of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh football game at 2:45 p.m. Saturday. Bob Splude and Vic Lombardi will call the action from Pitt Stadium. -The Observer 
The nov~ce boxi~g tournament will be held Monday at 4:30p.m. m the boxmg gym at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for NVA Co-Ree basketball. Stop by the NVA office or call at x6100 for a great chance to earn $8 per game. -The Observer 
Officials are needed for Saint Mary's flag football ~nd for the Saint Mary's 4-on-4 volleyball program. If mterested, call Maureen Harty, assistant athletic director, at 284-5548. -The Observer 
In the NHL's opening day of the season, Boston edged Toronto 2-1, Quebec topped Hartford 5-2, Buffalo nipped Montreal 3-2 and Philadelphia tripped New Jersey. ­
Associated Press 

~P0-:1S Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Fnday m The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ACCENT COPY EDITOR 
For further information contact 
Beth Healy at 283-1264 
IP----------------~
OPENING SOON I I ~ 
1
1 rn®illrnrn 9~ 
I I
I South Bend's Newest Restaurant I I I
I Now accepting applications for: cooks, I I busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid I I vacations, 0/otips I I Part time 8-20 hours I I Full time 40 hours or more I 
I I
I Apply from 1-7, Monday-Friday I 
1 Vety close to campus 
I 
I1 phone 277-7678 I 
1 m S.R.23 
I 
1I ~ f I
I , -• 8_ I
2046 SR23 
~-~--------------~ 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
11th, in 25:30.4. 
The Irish realize that they have to lower their times in or­der to have a chance at winning the meet. Garrett and Markezich, who have not run an all-out race this year, will give their utmost today. 
"We have to run well," said Markezich. "Michigan looks really good, with all five of their runners from last year re­turning. We have to have as many runners in front of the Michigan guys as possible." 
One runner who will help the Irish chances for victory will be junior Tom O'Rourke, who finally feels he is running up to his potential. His 25 :13 finish for sixth place last week came for the NCAA's last year. And as luck would have it, the Wol­verines' third and fourth run­ners have just become eligible this week and will be running their first meet of the season today. 

Western Michigan will send Jesse McGuire, who won the Mid-America Conference last year and who also qualified for the NCAA's. 
There will be several other natiional-class runners, includ­ing Bill Taylor and Jeff Goolsby from Central Michigan and Scott Zoldak and Shannon Ritchie from Ohio University. 
"This is a better meet than the National Catholic in terms of quality up front," said Piane. "The individual runner up frolllt is going to be extremely 
strong, and there is more depth this year." 
holies, O'Rourke finished 52nd with a time of 26:20.6. His cut­ting of more than a minute off his time a year later helped the Irish win the meet last week. The National Catholic was the only meet he ran last year. 
"He's a different runner than he was his first two years," said Piane. "He's very hungry. He trained a great deal this summer, is doing an excellent job, and has a real aggressive attitude." 
O'Rourke has his goals, but realizes his place on the team. 
"I think I can improve a lot," said O'Rourke. "I have a lot of personal goals but if our team accomplishes what we want to accomplish, personal goals will fall into place." 
In order to be effective against such powers as Mic­higan, O'Rourke sees the lower 
Friday, October 7, 1988 
CAMPUS 
FRIDAY 
7:30-8:00 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:00 p.m. Culture on the Quad, Hawaiian Club, Fieldhouse Mall 
12:15 p.m. Fireside Chat with Prof. Bill Micamble on Australia, International Students Organization Lounge. 
1:00-4:00 p.m. Men's and women's cross country, Notre Dame Invitational 
4:30 p.m. Culture on the Quad, Philippino dancers, Fieldhouse Mall 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film, "The Funeral," Annenberg Auditorium 
8:30 p.m. Barry Manilow Concert, $15.50 and $17.50, Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center SATURDAY 
8:00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 
1:00 
p.m. SMC volleyball vs. Tri-State University, An­gela Athletic Facility 

1:00 
p.m. ND Women's soccer vs. Calvin College Moose Krause Stadium ' 


.DINNER MENUS 

Notre Dame 
Grilled Reuben Southern Fried Chicken Seafood Newburgh w/ Shells Vineyard Veg & Cheese 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Fried Fish Italian Lasagna Fettuccini Carbonara Deli Bar 
The Observer page!~ 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 What a bogy 51 Lacedaemon does 
54 "-Graffiti,"
I Viscid 
27 Adjusts 
1973 film
substance 
31 Quote 

57 Film editor's milieu 
4 Fourth Estate 32 Oriental 
verb 
~hilosophy 

10 Large Poly-34 .N. figure: 59 "-tu," nes1an craft 1959 Verdi aria 
35 Heeling, as 

14 Tavern 60 Singer-
a ship composer
15 Plunderer 
37 Kin of hems 

from Ottawa 
16 Made hot 
and haws 

61 Singerfrom
under the 
38 Back~art 
Brooklyn
collar 

40 "Osoe-" 17 Unit of tone 41 Bandleader 62 Type of buoy pitch Shawetal. 63 Actor O'Neal 18 Star's concern 44 Plaintiff 64 Ranked at 
45 Illustrious

20 Violates Wimbledon 
§roup

22 Single-masted 65 Ike's
47 ids

boats command
49 Intends 23 Thrashed 50 They're not 24 Ring pros DOWN 
I Ornamental braid ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Kayo blow 3 Away from the movte studio 4 Secret 

5 Most gaunt 
19 Disturbs
6 Disabled 
21 Gets along 

7 "-Diary": 
Twain 24 Hover 8 A neighbor of 25 Rogue Pol. 26 Eyelashes 9 Utensils on 27 "The Camp-pencils bells are I 0 Southwestern corn flour 28 High point II Former for stunt men constellation 29 A Chan 12 Servants, e.g. portrayer 13 August 13, e.g. 30 Bills, in Peru 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
33 Cord and 50 "-Apart," Pierce-Arrow Frost poem 36 Papeete's 51 Raddle 
location 52 Insignificant 53 Type of 
39 Ex­
mackerel

serviceman's 
54 Poilu's
garb 
weapon

42 Orders back 
55In­

43 "-toWatch 
(bogged

Over Me," 
down)

1926 song 
56 Tenor Martini 

46 Clan badge 
58 Proceed, in 

48 Grew crops Scotland 
'e 
Gary Larson 



Buzz McFiatop Michael F. Muldoon 
And remember. once youOnce Ye hit that tritlion
Doea't Dan Quayle nm..i.nd 
Me aJld VaJlna ... er ..

doUar jackpot on the buy a farm. it's younyou of 10meoae7 
G.orlll are aoina to win 



_.. 
to teep,Yh"l. the National Debt 

Early seHiers of Beverly Hills 
SUB PROUDLY PRESENTS 
Mary Poppins 
s~"{\)~0 ~..,..-..-:--~-~-}a­
1 re-~....,...t~-=--:::~::-::-~-0~-dm_l
0-:15-. 

Engineering auditorium Admission $2 
Sports 
Friday, October 7, 1988
page 20 


Cross country teams 
Injuries affect lineup for women's squad 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 

The women's cross country team was chal­lenged last Friday by several tough opponents in the National Catholics, and it will face the same level of competition today when it hosts the Notre Dame Invitational. 
The race is scheduled for 1 p.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly says he needs all of his runners to race competitively if the Irish are to overcome talented teams such as Ohio University, Kent State, Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Ball State. 
Ohio and Kent State are ranked in the top 10 in the same district as Notre Dame, and Wis­consin, which Connelly says is the favorite, is the Division III national champion. 
A change in the Irish lineup will be the return of Jenny Ledrick, who had been injured, and the absence of Terry Kibelstis. Connelly is un­sure of how Ledrick will race after missing the first two scheduled meets; however, he says that she is in good shape. He is hopeful that the entire team will be back in form within two weeks, including Kibelstis. 
In the meantime, top performances are ex­pected of Theresa Rice and Linda Filar, both of whom are coming off high finishes in the National Catholics. 
"Theresa has to believe that she can run with 
• anybody, and she can," says Connelly. "She 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team faces perhaps Its biggest 
could win on Friday." 

challenge of the season this afternoon when it hosts the Notre
Filar placed 15th in the National Catholics. 
Dame Invitational. The Irish so far have won a dual meet with Geor­
see WOMEN, page 18 
getown and have taken first place in the National Catholics. 
ND set for Akron showdown 
Road game with Zips key to soccer team's NCAA hopes 

By ROB PIERCE Sports Writer 

The goal of the 1988 Notre Dame soccer team: an NCAA Tournament bid. 
The Irish could take a major step toward that aim Sunday when they travel to Ohio to play the nationally-ranked Akron Zips in the most important game of the season. 
"As far as a bid goes, this game is probobly the biggest of the year," said sophomore midfielder Steve LaVigne. "We have to win this one." 
Akron is ranked second in the Great Lakes Region and 15th in the nation in the latest polls, while Notre Dame is tabbed fourth in the region. The Irish made a brief appearance in the top 20 last week but dropped out following a tie at Wisconsin over the weekend. 
"They are without a doubt 
Dennis Grace 

one of the best teams in the country,'' said Irish coach Den­nis Grace. 
But Akron coach Steve Parker does not agree with the polls or with Grace's assess­ment. 
"The ranking is totally un­realistic," said Parker. "We should be 115th. We're very talented, but we're too incon­sistent and immature." 
The Irish are winless against the Zips in six tries, having been outscored by a combined total of 19-4, but recent history might provide some hope for Notre Dame. 
When the teams last met, in 
1986, Notre Dame battled Ak­
ron to a 1-1 deadlock. The Zips 
advanced all the way to the na­
tional championship game that 
year before losing to Duke. 
"We were a very young team 
then," said Grace. "Most ofthe 
players who contributed in 1986 
are still with the team now." 
One of those players is Bruce 
"Tiger" McCourt, the leading 
scorer the past two seasons and 
currently ranked fifth in Notre 
Dame's all-time scoring chart. 
McCourt claims that the 1986 .squad was as good as the Akron team it tied, but that this year's team is better than the one it 
see SOCCER, page 17 
Irish head to No. 8 Kentucky 
..._ By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
Riding the crest of a four­match winning streak, the Notre Dame volleyball team will travel into Wildcat country Saturday to play the University of Kentucky. 
The Irish, 8-5, are coming off their best performances of the year in victories last weekend over Butler and Western Mic­higan, but the eighth-ranked Wildcats will be a formidable opponent in Notre Dame's quest to make the NCAA Tourn­ament. 
"This part of the schedule is, by far, the most important," said Irish coach Art Lambert. "We need to win most of these matches in order to make the NCAA's." 
Kentucky, 13-1, suffered its only loss against Oklahoma in the Wildcats' third match of the season. Another opponent for the Irish is Kentucky's Memorial Arena. The Wildcats have not lost on their home court since October 1986, which adds up to 23 straight wins at home. 
Kentucky will be led by senior outside hitter Kim Thompson, senior middle blocker Lisa Bokovoy and sophomore setter La~ra Linder. These returmng starters come from a 1987 team that ran up a 32-1 record and an NCAA quarterfinal finish. 
Notre Dame's major prob­lem so far this season has been 
see 'CATS, page 15 
host ND Invitational 
Men face toughest challenge of season 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The men's cross country team will face its biggest challenge of the season when it plays host to the 33rd annual Notre Dame Invitational at 2 p.m. today at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Invitational will be a true test of the strength of the Irish, as such challenging teams as Michigan, Western Michigan, Central Mic­higan, and Ohio University will be attending. 
The Irish, to date, have easily won both of their meets this season, with senior captain Dan Garrett and senior Ron Markezich intentionally tying for first place at the finish line. 
Things will not be so easy today, as the defending champion of the meet, John Scherer from Michigan, will be back to defend his title. 
Scherer won the meet by running the five­mile course in 24: 10.4, easily beating Dan Gar­rett by eight seconds. His run helped Michigan to win the whole meet last year. 
Scherer is the NCAA champion of the 10,000 meters outdoors and is second in the country in the five-mile cross country race, so Garrett and Markezich will have their work cut out for them. Irish coach Joe Piane remains optimistic. 
"A list of the top runners of the meet has to include Markezich and Garrett," said Piane. "And don't count out (Mike) O'Connor or (Tom) O'Rourke." 
Last week, at the National Catholics held at Notre Dame, in addition to Garrett and Markezich finishing in 24:39, O'Rourke finished in sixth place in a time of 25:13. O'Connor placed 
see IRISH, page 18 

Johnson story lacking in facts and class 
When I first read it, the letter Lou Holtz addressed to the student body in yesterday's issue of The Observer struck me as a touch demeaning. 
How many coaches have felt the need to address the Notre Dame student body and request classy behavior in the past? Certainly not Holtz, as far as I can recall. 
Digger Phelps published a letter in The Observer two years ago, praising the student body for its support of the basketball team after his Irish upset top-ranked North Carolina. Notre Dame was called for a technical foul near the end of its 60-58 victory over the Tar Heels because the fans showered the court with ND cardboard placards, but Phelps had only praise in his letter. 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 


So why do we have to be asked to be classy this time? 
Well, this time is different. Take a good look at page 9 in yesterday's issue of The Observer, three pages before the letter from Holtz, and it becomes a little easier to understand why Holtz is concerned. 
The writer of a story headlined "Johnson rebuttal" showed what Holtz and the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment are up against in trying to keep the pre-Miami hype 
somewhat tasteful. 

Attempting to address the Notre Dame student body from Jimmy Johnson's point of view in a humorous way, the article associated everything from drugs to academic ineptitude with the Hurricane coach and the University of 
Miami. 

I'm no Miami fan and certainly no Johnson fan. But if you're going to attack the school or its football coach, it's only fair to attack them on honest grounds. 
Johnson runs up the score on teams. That's a valid basis for attack, but no mention was made of that in the article. 
Instead, the story joked that Johnson pushes cocaine in the recruiting process, a serious accusation with no factual basis. 
It made fun of Miami's schedule, which does have its share of patsies. But the Hurricanes already have beaten Florida State and Michigan, and the 1988 schedule includes 
see MIAMI, page 17 




