--------------------------------~~~ -~~-----------------­
Gray skies smile
IACCENT: 'Tops in Blue' Mostly cloudy and warmer today with a 60 percent chance of showers. High in the upper 70s. Variable
IVIEWPOINT: Stevens' visit protested 
cloudiness and mild tonight . 


VOL. XXII, NO. 23 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre bame and Saint Mary's 
Shuttle launch may be delayed 
Associated Press But for some reason the nozzle installed in the Aug. 18 BRIGHAM CITY, Utah-An test booster contained a ring of old-model nozzle inlet ring was the old, pre-Challenger design, used in the final test of Morton Medal told The Standard­
Thiokol's redesigned space Examiner newspaper by tele­.. 
shuttle booster rocket, but phone from NASA's Marshall 
NASA has not decided if the dis­Space Flight Center at 
covery will delay next week's Huntsville, Ala. 
scheduled shuttle launch, a He said NASA wants to know 
spokesman said Wednesday. how the old ring got into the redesign test motor, and whe­NASA spokesman Ed Medal ther it somehow was installed said it had not yet been deter­in the boosters poised to lift mined if the outdated ring was Discovery and five astronauts used in the two boosters at­into space. tached to the space shuttle Dis­covery, scheduled for launch "It is true that a nozzle for­Sept. 29. ward nose ring, not of the The ring, located inside the redesigned solid rocket motor nozzle assembly at the tail of design, the RSRM design, was the shuttle booster, was inadvertently installed in the The Observer I Mike Ury redesigned for production PV-1 (Production Verification 
dents yesterday.

models of the solid rocket 
motors. 
see RING, page 7 

Keane appointed dean of College of Business 
Special to the Observer Furuhashi, Herrick Professor O'Meara in announcing the ap-national goals," O'Meara elected him a member, and in John G. Keane, director of the of International Business, who pointment. "Of equal value will added. 1987 The Conference Board, an 
U.S. Bureau of the Census, has is returning to teaching andre-be his rich and varied back-Keane, a Fort Wayne, In-economic study group named been appointed the Martin J. search. ground in the Census Bureau, diana, native, received his bac-him a senior member. Gillen Dean of the College of "Keane is a man of vision where his many responsibili-helor's degree from Notre Keane was nominated by Business Administration at the and integrity whose experience ties included educating people Dame in 1955. Previously, he President Reagan as the University of Notre Dame ef-in combining the resources of for Bureau work. had earned a undergraduate eighteenth director of the fective January 1989. academe with the needs ofbusi-"He also supervised exten-degree in Russian studies from Census Bureau and sworn in by 
ness and government will sive and sophisticated re-Syracuse University (1952) and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor Besides the Gillen deanship, prove valuable in leading the search in the Bureau, and his a subsequent MBA degree from in 1984. he will also assume the Howard College of Business Adminis-role in expanding its technical Indiana University in 1965 and As director of the Bureau of 
J. and Gelarding F. Korth Chair tration to a new level of aca-assistance and analysis over-a PhD from the Univerity of Census, Keane has been re­in Strategic Management. He demic distinction," com-seas should enhance achieve-Pittsburgh in 1965. In 1973, the will succeed Dean Yusaku mented Provost Timothy ment of the University's inter-Economic club of Chicago see KEANE, page 9 

Role of media in campaigns discussed by speaker Novak 
By MICHAEL WELLS 
News Staff 
The role of Dan Quayle's bat­point out, however, that the "The media so ganged up on 
tle with the media in swinging Democrats have their work cut Dan Quayle, initially I think it voters away from Michael out for them. evoked one of those powerful Dukakis this summer was one One important fact which hate reactions. . . against the of the central themes of a talk Novak cited to back this up is media," said Novak, "Not that last night by respected author that Catholic voters, tradi­people like Quayle all that and political observer Michael tional supporters of Demo­much." Novak continued Novak. cratic candidates, according to that,"it was no fault of Novak, a visiting Welch pro­the polls are favoring Bush by Dukakis. He tried to stay out 
fessor of American studies at 43 percent to 41. Novak called of it. It was suddenly the media Notre Dame for the second fall Catholics an important swing against Bush, and in that case semester in a row, has been in­vote, and said, "My own view people were backing Bush." vited to give a series of lectures is that (the Catholic vote) will Novak, a journalist and 
evaluating this year's determine whether Michael chairholder at the American 
presidential campaign. Last nukakis wins or not." Enterprise Institute, a Wash­
night's lecture in the CCE Professor Novak, himself a ington D.C. think tank, is the 
auditorium, the first in a series Catholic who attended Holy fourth person to occupy the 
of three, was a mixture of eval­Cross Seminary for four years, Welch chair at Notre Dame. 
uation of the parties' campaign and who later worked with the In general comments about 
strategy and of insight on Kennedy campaign, indicated the presidential selection 
recent trends in the electoral that this is not necessarily con­process, Novak reminded his 
process. nected with strictly Catholic is­listeners of the harsh com­
"The beautiful thing about sues. Novak did cite the ments made by the media in American politics is that anyth­public's sympathy for Bush years past over other Oval Of­ing can happen in '88," said and Quayle in the face of media fice seekers, including Ken­Novak, commenting on the ele­attacks, though, as probably nedy and Reagan, who later ment of uncertainty in any elec­the best explanation for their grew to receive great public af­tion year. He was careful to recent jump in popularity. fection. 



Thursday, September 22, 1988
page2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
A naked man ran into St. Patrick's Cathedral on Wednesday night and attacked people with an iron prayer bookstand, killing one man and injuring a police officer before being shot to death by other officers, authorities said. The man entered the church about 8 p.m. carrying red carnations and walked to a front alter, where he removed the prayer bookstand and repeatedly struck an usher before attacking a woman praying in a pew, accor­ding to police and witnesses. The man was shot and killed by police after he attacked an officer trying to subdue him, said police spokesman Raymond O'Donnell. ­
Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
The Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry presents "Partners in Mystery: An Invitation to Involve­ment," at 8:45p.m. in the dining room of the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 
The Asian Society will hold a meeting at 5: 30 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. Call Mark at 283-1022 or Tina at 283-1346 for more information. 
-The Observer 
Van Halen Ticket Sales for the Oct. 30 concert will start at 10 a.m. at Gate 3 of the JACC on Sept. 26. -The Observer 
The Wrath of Grapes, a film detailing the struggle of the united farm workers will be shown at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The Model UN Club will meet at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
Images of America, an exhibition of America from the 16th to 20th centuries is located in the West end of the Library Concourse. Professors Anadon and Tarragon will give a presentation at 7:30p.m. in the Faculty Lounge of the Hesburgh Library. -The Observer 
The Italian Club will hold its first meeting at 7:30p.m. 
in 204 O'Shaughnessey Hall. Call Vienna at 283-1833 for more information. -The Observer 
Voter Registration will conclude today in ND and SMC Dining Halls and at the O'Hara Desk in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Tops In Blue, a musical presentation, will take place at 7:30p.m. at Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Pax Christi will be featured on WVFI AM 640 at 10 p.m. with special guests Jeff Long, Julie Coyle, and Terri Proksch. Call in at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Moon Festival presented by the Graduate Student Union and the Chinese and Taiwanese Associations will take place Friday, from 7:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Wilson Commons. Tickets available at the GSU office, LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
--Ihe-0bs.--e~~A.-=Y=-'-0E-­
_L.J ---­
Design Editor ............. Annette Rowland .................................... Tammy Martinez Design Assistant .............. Beth Peterson ............................................... Jodi Topel Typesetters...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer _.................................---Shannon Roach ........................................... Paul Jackson Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berringer News Editor ....................... Sara Marley Typiots .. Will Zamer Copy Editor ...................... Missy Weber .........................._ ............ Diane Bradley Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Ann Hebenstreit SMC Day Editor ............... Maura Reidy Ads Designers.. ................... Molly Killen Photographer......... .. .. Mike Ury 
Tile o.-ner (USPS S99 2-'1000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile OIIRrver is published by the students of-the University of Notte Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notte Dame,lndiana46SS6. 
Tile o.-ner is a member of Tile Auodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Remembering Kelly: Kindergarten revisited 
Dear Kelly, 

I passed by our old school the other day. It 
was recess, and the playground was packed. 
The schoolyard teemed with 5-year-olds jump­
ing from the jungle gym and skipping through 
the hopscotch squares. 

It didn't seem that long ago that you and I 
were freckled faces in that crowd. 
You were my best friend back then. We 
shared everything from crayons to coat hooks. 
We placed our carpet squares side by side every 
nap time, and you always saved the green one 
just for me. ·~ 

We both agreed that "Tinkertoys" were a gift from the gods, and we spent every extra minute on the monkey bars at recess. We always sat together during milk and cookie break -you liked oatmeal 'n raisin, and I always picked chocolate chip. 
Remember when we pulled the chair out from under Tommy Ewald and had to spend recess in the coat room? Or how about the first time we walked home from school by ourselves? It seemed like 20 miles, even if it was only three blocks. And I'll never forget the day we begged my mom to take us to the school carnival and then cried when we were put on opposite teams at the tug of war. 
We stuck together, no matter what. You liked me even when I didn't color in between the lines and my "Garanimals" didn't match up. Even our imaginary friends were "best buddies." 
It was pretty traumatic when I transferred to the neighboring Catholic school in first grade. We cried for weeks, and I thought I'd never find another best friend. 
But I did. 

And pretty soon, those old kindergarten days were just memories, shoved to the back of my mind, somewhere in between my first valentine and my first bike. 
Once we'd left Mrs. Bray's morning kinder­garten, our paths didn't cross much. Mter a while, we were so caught up in swimming les­sons and spelling words and other "big kids" stuff, pink ribbons and popsicles just didn't seem that important anymore. 
Then, halfway through first grade, a group of men came to school during recess one day and constructed a fence between our two schools. I saw you even less after that. They built up lots of barriers when they erected that wall. 
We lost track of each other somewhere down the line. By the time I graduated from grade school, you were··just another face behind the fence. 
I don't know if you'd recognize me now, Kelly. A lot's happened since those pre-lunch box days. I've gone through braces and boyfriends and curfews and college. 
I don't worry about getting lost in the grocery store anymore, and I can read the Dr. Suess books all by myself now-even the big words. 

This week: Enjoy three nights of dancing­
Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
Music by Campus D.J.'s Thursday's hours: 9-1 Friday and Saturday: 9-2 
Then on sunday it's: SPORTS SUNDAY 
presenting: _ The Notre Dame vs. Purdue game replayed for your enjoyment 
Don t forget to visit the HIDEAWAY-a Theodore's exclusive Drin~< special this week: FUZZY IRISHMEN 

And I'm no longer afraid of the dark .... well, not really. I'm still a Iitle scared of monsters under the bed, only we call them "cockroaches" now. 
I'm about two feet taller than when you knew me, and scraped elbows and loose teeth don't make me cry anymore. And I can drive and vote and even stay up past 9 o'clock. You'll never believe this, but I actually LIKE going to bed early now! . 
But ya know what, Kelly? Being big tsn't everything it's cracked up to be. I don't have much time for "The Electric Company" anymore. And -don't tell anybody -but I still get scared sometimes. But now I worry about different things -like chemistry tests and gov­ernment grades, instead of flashcards and thun­derstorms. And job security instead of security blankets. And SYRs and GREs insted of ABCs. 
My mind's cluttered with "big people" thoughts, like presidential elections and alcohol policies and Green House effects .... 
I remember when college seemed light years away. We never thought we'd get "that old." Gosh, now we're almost all grown up! Well.... not quite. 
Under all the big person pretense, I still love the monkey bars. And even though I cut off my pigtails long ago and my baby teeth are all 
gone,  I  still  pick  the  onions  out  of  my  
hamburgers,  and  green's  still  my  favorite  
color.  

I still think about you sometimes, Kelly. And if you were here, I know you'd be munching on an oatmeal cookie and saving the last green carpet just for me. 
----------------~--------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 22, 1988 
The Observer 

Sophomore, senior offices broken into over weekend 
By MIKE O'CONNELL 
News Staff 
The Senior Class Office, Sophomore Class Office and the Adworks Office in the LaFortune Student Center were broken into and robbed last weekend. 
Large amounts of cash were taken from the Senior and Sophomore Class Offices, while Adworks suffered a loss of only $75, according to Adworks Vice President Mickey Seymour. 
Senior Class President Tom Tisa and Sophomore Class President Rob Pasin refused to comment on the incident be­cause the investigation is still in progress. 
Notre Dame Security has been investigating the larceny since it was first discovered last Sunday. Lt. Bill Hedel of Notre Dame Security has been assigned to the case. 
"We're in the very early stages of the investigation right now," said Hedel. "At this time we are interviewing people who had access to the office, janitors, people with keys to the office --it's still too early to draw any conclusions." 
Security declined to release the exact amount of cash stolen from the offices or what the money was to be used for. 
"I came in on Sunday after­noon and saw the cas}) box which is usually kept in the Of­fice Manager's desk left open on top of one of the desks. Luck­ily we had just made a large deposit in the bank earlier that week," Seymour said. 
''The door to the office was not pried open, and whoever broke in just took the cash and left all of the checks behind," 
~-----~--· Adworks controller Max
Verkamp said. 
"Security did not dust for prints like they did for the Sophomore and Senior Class Offices, because of the number of people who handled the box after the theft," Verkamp said. 

"To my knowledge, nothing of this magnitude has hap­pened here before," said Ceil Paulsen, assistant director of Student Activities, who also su­pervises LaFortune. 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY3 


~***************************• : NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS ~ 
: COMPLETELY FURNISHED ~
* 
2 BEDROOM APTS iC 

* 
RENT AS LOW AS iC 



: $99.00 A MON,.H ~ 
* iC
* iC 
: OFFICE AT 820 NO AVE ~ 234-6647 '"?' : CALL ANYTIME FOR APPT. AND INFO. ~ 
* iC 
*****************************. 
page 3 


"Hold that pose." Tom Schmidt of Varden Studios takes Senior pictures at LaFortune on Wednesday. 
House Speaker tells of CIA Nicaraguan action 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Congres­sional conservatives voiced outrage Wednesday over House Speaker· Jim Wright's disclosure of a purported U.S. covert operation in Nicaragua. 
President Reagan referred to Wright's comments as a "violation" and said the speaker had been indiscreet in telling reporters Tuesday that the CIA hired operatives inside Nicaragua to stir up demonstrations against the leftist government and damage peace efforts. 
The administration stead­fastly refused to either confirm or deny Wright's report. 
Representative Henry Hyde, R-111., the ranking minority 
r....oc.cr.............. ............................ ............................ ..............~.............. .............. ........................................................J" ..................... .......J"...o""J" J"J"..rJ"~ J"J"J"J"J"J"J"..r~
...o--.....-J.Y"".....-~ ...o--...oc:r ~ ...o"" .......J" ~J" .............. ............................ ..............J"J"s 
§Ii  ATTENTION ALL SENIORS!! ABSOLUTE LAST CHANCE FOR SENIOR PHOTOS  
~  
8 ~  Because of popular demand, yearbook photographers will  
~  extend portrait sessions for one week beginning Monday  
~  9-26-88 and ending Friday 9-30-88.  
§ ~  Sign up for your sitting in Room 108 of La Fortune  
~  Student Cneter between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00  
~  

p.m. 
I§ This is your absolute last chance to be photographed for § the yearbook!! 
I§ 
I 
I§ ~ 
§ 
I 
I ~ 
s 
I 
I~ 
~ 

l~JQO"'~.,;O'"'J"..;O"'"..;O"'"~..r~JCO"'...o""~~~.,;O'"'./.)"'".;'".;'".,;Q""..;O"'"~.,.r....co"".;'"J" ~~~..;O"'"...ocY'...o"".....cccr~
.............. ....... 
member of the House Intelli­gence Committee, called Wright's assertions "San­dinista propaganda." 
"It's appalling," Hyde said of Wright's disclosure, which the speaker said was based on CIA testimony. "It's a no-win situation for America. God help Americans down there (in Nicaragua), that's all I can say." 
Hyde said he could neither confirm nor deny the dis­closure, but added: "What he said is news to me, and I serve on the Intelligence Committee . .. I sure as hell want to know who that testimony is from and under what circumstances he got it." 
Hyde said GOP house leaders would meet Thursday with the Wright matter "high on the agenda." Asked whether there would be a call for an ethics probe, he said: "I think there will be." 
House Republican leaders late Wednesday formally asked the House ethics com­mittee and the Intelligence Committee to investigate Wright's conduct and recom­mend "appropriate action." 
Wright already is being in­vestigated by the committee on unrelated allegations. Sanc­tions for unauthorized dis­closure of classified informa­tion can include removal from committee membership, cen­sure, or expulsion from the House. 
Aspokesman for Wright, Wil­son Morris, said the matter had been blown out of proportion and that Wright had violated no rules in talking about the CIA activity. 
"CIA involvement in Nicaragua has been admitted by the CIA and the White House," Morris said. "It's been repeatedly documented. It's all in the public domain." 

~ ----~­
page 4 The Observer 
Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and the golden glory of Notre Dame. .. 
"In this treasury of memurahilia, editors Ruhert Quakenhush and Mike Bynum have comprised an irP hrc:.\itJe and informative 
keepsake ahnut an American hero, a legend who lives on in the hearts of many." 
-SOL 1TH REND TR IRUNE 
r r 
r 
r 
~ 
f r 
r 
r 
I 

f 
r 
' 
...on sale now at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 

Coming soon from 
October Football Corp. 
Many Autumns Ago: The Frank Leahy Era at Boston College and Notre Dame. 



Thursday, September 22, 1988 The Observer page 5 
,1·.;. ·'"' 
. 
' ' 
~ .f 
' 
-J ~ . The governor speaks 
Former Ohio Gov. Richard Gilligan, left, speaks to a group during the St. Edward's Hall Forum last night. Gilligan spoke on why he will vote for Dukakis and 
source: retired Senator Barry 
-~
~---------------------•• :rn~~eru



VOTER 
REGISTRATION 
If you did not reg­ister at home, you can register here in St. Joseph County and vote as citizens of the state of Indiana. 

* 
North and South Dining Halls (Lunch and Dinner) 

* 
LaFortune Student Center (2 -4 PM) 




Se tember 20 -22 
i 
The Observer I Mike Ury 

Law Prof. Edward Murphy, right, told why he will vote for Bush. Future forums will feature speakers such as University President Father Edward Malloy. 

Candidates prime for coming debate 
Associated Press 

Presidential rivals George Bush and Michael Dukakis plunged into preparations Wed­nesday for their first debate, poring over fat briefing books and getting tips from media and political advisers. Dukakis took out time to propose a "Healthy Start" program guaranteeing basic medical care for poor women and children. 
"When children and their families have needed a helping hand, Mr. Bush's administra­tion has given them a cold shoulder,'' Dukakis said during a visit to Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston, where he met with two new mothers and their babies. 
"When the time came to stand up for our children's health care needs, George Bush was nowhere to be found," the Democratic nominee said. 
Bush also was the target of criticism from an unexpected 

FACTORY 
TANNING SALON 

Attention Seniors: Call for information on our special package plan 
Student Discounts! 
272-0160 Mon.-Thurs. 7am-9pm 52580 U S 31 N Fri. 7am-Spm 
· · · Sat. 7am-5pm South Bend Sun. 1Oam-3pm 



• 

·~
• I ~ 
• PH --,r1rH \ 
e , r= 9-~ -"'C;" 
• .~ aq= li1 ~ 
: DiSMAS
.

: fJ0 U5e 
Kathy Royer (7862) : 

I Center for Social Concernsat •••
••• oi: : Mj(){1il\1H\ : 
: *************************** : 
'A community of support, reconciliation, and adjustment. the • :J:srr.Js Heese of Michlana otters a unique opportunity for Saint • • \iar(s ~nd Notre Dame students to share in a lite-training • 
c~penence with former prisoners. Together an environment ot • • •:ust. friendship, and hope can be built to provide the confidence • and courage necessary for each to enter sodety as a valuable and • • 1ntcnral member." • 
• Tim Dempsey, Re5idenl of Oismas House • 
Goldwater, the outspoken con­servative and 1964 GOP presidential nominee. 
Goldwater introduced Bush's running mate, Senator Dan Quayle, at a Rotary Club luncheon in Phoenix, and then before relinquishing the microphone said: "I forgot something that I had to say, and I hope you take this kindly. But I want you to go back and tell George Bush to start talking about the issues, OK?" 
Quayle merely laughed and said, "I wish Barry would just say what's on his mind." 
Republican Bush, with his schedule cleared of public ap­pearances, spent the day in Washington meeting at the vice presidential mansion with ad­visers in preparation for the na­tionally televised debate Sun­day night. The 1-hour encounter at Wake Forest Uni­versity in Winston-Salem, N.C., will begin at 8 p.m. EDT. 
Bush's schedule included a mock debate, with former Dep­uty Treasury Secretary Rich­ard Darman playing the role of Dukakis. 
. 
: 
STUDENTSTOLIVEWITH • FORMER PRISONERS • 

~m= • 
e
************* • 
: 
~~ 
. 

Thursday, September 22, 1988
pageS The Observer 


Faculty grants are announced 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,278,832 in grants during July for the sup­port of research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $835,256, including: 
•$186,846 
from the National Institutes of Health for NMR studies of kinases and related enzymes by Thomas Nowak, professor of chemistry. 

•$179,797 
from the National Institutes of Health for synthe­sis and study of microbial iron chelators and analogs by Mar­vin Miller, professor of chemistry. 

•$150,000 
from the National Science Foundation for ultra high energy gamma ray re­search by John Poirier, profes­sor of physics. 

•$77,415 
from the National Institutes of Health for re­search on sexual dimorphism in neuropeptide systems by Sunny Boyd, assistant profes­sor of biological sciences. 

•$62,818 
from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Maureen Hallinan, White professor of arts and let­ter in sociology, on deter­minants of students' interra­cial friendliness. 

•$60,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Kenneth Olson, ad­junct professor of biological sciences on hormone metabolism by fish. 

•$43,056 
from Amoco Chemi­cal Research Center for re­


search by Charles Kulpa Jr., associate professor of biological sciences, on path­ways of fine acid degradation and mixed microbial cultures. 
•$36,000 
from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for re­search on single-electron charging effects by Steven Ruggiero, associate professor of physics. 

Awards for instructional pro­grams totalled $32,484 includ­ing: 

•$22,484 
from the University Space Research Association for an advanced aeronautics design program, administered by Stephen Batill, associate professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 

Awards for other programs totalled $338,852 including: 

•$302,000 
from IBM.· for access to the IBM Palo Alto Sci­entific Center for Walter Johnson, professor of Physics. 

•$36,600 
from the National Science Foundation for a graduate research fellowship program, administered by Chau Le, assistant vice presi­dent for advanced studies. 

•$26,198 
from the Institute of Museum Services for conser­vation project support ad­ministered by Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum of Art and associated professor of Art, Art History and Design. 

•$16,000 
from the U.S. De­partment of Education for the Jacob Javits. fellowship pro­gram, administered by Chau Le. 




Associated Press
A soldier's return 
After 28 days in Yellowstone fighting forest fires, Army from his twins on Sunday. Capt Dennis Ward received a warm welcome home 
Riots erupt over Soviet annexation 
Associated Press Stepanakert, the territory's 
largest city. 

MOSCOW-Rioters burned In Yerevan, capital of neigh­homes and cars, and gunfire boring Armenia, officials rang throughout a city at the rejected a demand by heart of an annexation battle thousands of protesters for a between the southern Soviet new meeting of the republic's republics of Armenia and Azer­Supreme Soviet, or parlia­baijan, the official Tass news ment, to renew a petition for agency reported Wednesday. annexation of Nagorno-
Officials in Azerbaijan's dis­Karabakh, a mountain puted territory of Nagorno­enclave. Karabakh imposed a curfew and banned gatherings to cool "There are hundreds of ethnic passions after violence thousands of people in front of broke out Tuesday and Wed­the Supreme Soviet," said Ar­nesday in and around penay Popoyan, wife of activist and former political prisoner Rafael Popoyan. 
"The city is very tense," she said in a telephone interview from Yerevan. Ageneral strike that began Sept. 16 continued. 
Her husband said later by telephone that a government announcement was read on Ar­menian television declaring such a session by the Supreme Soviet would be illegal and rejecting the demand. 
"This answer is a violation of the constitution," said Popoyan. 





8RUCE BABBITT 
FORMER GOVERNOR OF ARIZONA AND 
U.S. DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL 
CANDIDATE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS • 
• 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1988 

4:00 TO 5:00p.m. 
•
• FIELDHOUSE MALL •
•


RAIN: WASHINGTON HALL 
• 
Thursday, September 22, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Outbreak of riots follows shooting 
Associated Press 
SHREVEPORT, La.­Hundreds of angry blacks burned stores and rioted in the streets after a white woman fa­tally shot a black man, and black leaders warned Wednes­day against a recurrence of vio­lence. 
"We're sitting on a powder keg," said state Rep. Alphonse Jackson, who called for a bira­cial anti-crime committee. 
"People want protection," said Jackson, who is black. "I call on citizens to restore law and order." 
His plea followed a meeting of city officials and macK leaders to discuss the rioting that persisted nearly five hours, unti13 a.m. Wednesday, and which officials said was related both to drugs and racial problems. 
Stores were looted and burned, and rioters threw rocks and bottles at whites. There were reports of racial slurs and chants of "Hot Bis­cuit," the restaurant where a white teen-ager killed a black teen-ager on Aug. 4, an incident that set off racial tension in this northwestern Louisiana city of 250,000, the state's second larg­est after New Orleans. 

SOFT CONTACT LENSES •Soft.Y}18.te Daily or Extended Wear Contact Lenses Dally Wcjlr. +7.00 to ·12.00 Extindcd Wear: plano to -6.00  
•Tinted Contact Lenses Dally or Extended Wear Sofunttc B or 2 different colors Bausch & Lomb  
Eye exam required at time of purchase. No other discounts, previousoiders or sale Items apply. Limited time offer. "Our eyewearprices are the lowest tn fnd.tana, and 1111 E Ireland Road ~~::cf!~~~~rs a in the Broadmoor Plaza promfse from the doctor." 291-4000 p.J;;d--­ffi ~ • [&I Hours: Mon 10-6, Tues. Fri & Sat 9-6, Thurs 9-8 Appointtnents available but not required. Offices Indiana  



Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 10 p.m. WHERE: JACC TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff 
$6-adults 

Tickets should be purchased in advance. 
On Sale (starting September 26th Monday) M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC Also will be sold in the dining halls 
A Cancun airport official uses a bullhorn to announce of Hurricane Gilbert. flight times to stranded tourists due to the destruction 
Man registers .5 blood alcohol 
Associated Press 
PERU, Ind.-A man who registered a .50 percent blood alcohol level regained con­sciousness Wednesday and was in stable condition at Dukes Memorial Hospital's intensive care unit, police said. 
Ivan Archuleta, 35, of Peru was found unconscious on the seat of his father's pickup Tues­day night and taken to the hospital when he could not be awakened. A blood test was or­dered. 
A blood alcohol content of .10 
is legally drunk in Indiana. First Sgt. John Forbes of the state police said death can oc­cur in the blood alcohol content range between .40 and .50. 
Charts measuring how many drinks it takes in a time period for a person to achieve blood alcohol levels don't read higher than .40. 
Miami Circuit Judge Bruce Embry estimated a person weighing 180 pounds would have to drink about 28 shots of whiskey or about 28 12-ounce cans of beer in two hours to at­tain a .50 content. 

O.S.-Soviet Relations: 
Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with 
Archuleta was found in a pickup belonging to Fructuoso Archuleta, who was charged with operating a vehicle while intoxicated and public in­toxication. 
Ivan Archuleta was charged with public intoxication. He currently is on probation on a previous public intoxication charge after pleading guilty in circuit court on Aug. 11. 

Ring 
continued from page 1 
Motor, fired Aug.18)," said Ed Snow, a Morton Thiokol spokes­man at Ogden, reading a prepared company statement. 
"The forward nose ring per­formed satisfactorily. The er­ror was discovered during reg­ular post-test examination and analysis of the part. NASA and Morton Thiokol are working to discover how the error was made and how it can be prevented in the future," the statement said. 
Medal said he believed the mistake was discovered within the last day or two. 
"We fully believe the correct parts are in the flight set," company spokesman Rocky 

Raab  told  the  Associated  
Press.  "We  and  NASA  are  
researching  the  record,  the  

documents, to make sure they are the correct parts. Even if they were not, they would not affect the safety of the flight." 

Raab said the discovery was made during X-ray analysis of the part after the test firing. "There is no visible difference between the two parts," he said. 
The Aug. 18 test, the fifth full­scale static firing of the redesigned booster, was con­ducted at Thiokol's Wasatch Operations plant 25 miles west of Brigham City under NASA and Thiokol supervision. 
Mter the test, engineers dis­assembled the rocket and began a lengthy process of ex­amining it. NASA later pronounced the test a success and certified Discovery for launch. 
Most of the booster redesign was aimed at making the rocket safer. A faulty 0-ring seal on one of the booster seg­ments was blamed for the Jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the space shuttle Challenger. 
• f"#i_-_ -.•.:, , , •••,.,.,...... ....,~·J , , •' 11•, ,..,· ,-:• ,l •' J' ,• ~ ,• •"•' ·"~' ,........ ' II~ • o. ' VI·" • ~ .,. ... •· ,..-• ·­
r 0o • • . 

The Observer 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
Introducing the new B. M. 0. C.-the big­gest Macintosh on campus: 
The Macintosh· IT computer. It's the per­fect roommate for power hungry students who do high speed computing, video pro­cessing, engineering or graphic design. 
Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II is the fastest, best performing Macintosh ever built. Yetwith all its sophistication, it still has the same point-and-click simplicity that Macintosh has become famous for. 
Which means, ofcourse, the Macintosh II and you will be the perfect roommates: It cooks. And you clean up. 
The power to be 
® your besf 

Thursday, September 22, 1988 
The Observer page 9 
Keane 
continued from page 1 
sponsible for the nation's larg­est statistical agency with about 9,000 employees and a current budget of $645 million. The Bureau's four major cen­suses, some 250 annual demo­graphic and economic surveys and about 2,000 annual reports reflect almost every individual and institution in the country. Its work and reports cover in­come, education, living ar­rangements, crime, health, aging, retail and wholesale trade, housing starts, agricul­ture, government expendi­tures, business inventories, im­ports and exports and a myriad 
of other areas. 
Prior to his federal appoint­ment, Keane had a career as a management consultant, ini­tially at the United States Steel Corporation and than at Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Inc. He fol­lowed that experience with eleven years in advertising agencies in management and research capacities. 
From 1968 to 1972 he was re· search and planning director 

for J. Walter Thompson in Chicago. 
Just before his Census Bureau position, he was presi­dent of Managing Change, Inc., a Barrington, Ill. consulting firm specializing in strategic planning and business environ­ment assessment. He has pub­lished articles in more than twenty marketing, manage­ment and statistical publica­tions and has served on the ed­itorial review board of the Journal of Marketing. He served in 1976-77 as president of the American Marketing As­sociation. 

His federal government re­sponsibilities have involved in­ternational work with some 35 countries, and he has lectured at 29 American universities 
and 5 abroad. Among his duties in the Census Bureau, he was in charge of its large educa­tional component. This activity included residential postgraduate training for more than 125 foreign statisticians in English and Spanish, as well as short term technical assistance in about 30 countries annually. He directed the Centers for De­mographic Studies, for .Eco­nomic Studies, and for Interna­tional Research, as well as the 
Professional Skills Develop­ment Program and the Inter­national Statistical Programs CentP.r_ 
Keane·· and his wife, Rosemarie, have three children, John, Sharon, and Janmarie. 
The Korth Chair to be held by Keane is a gift of a 1941 Notre Dame graduate and his wife. In 1945 Howard J. Korth and two associates founded a charter airline that eventually became TransAmerica Air­lines. A former officer of the airlines and director of is par­ent company, Transamerica Corporation, Korth has been a 

Class 
continued from page 13 
H·iiv":iu.Ciis·,··:y~~..~~~-JoR·i·n;;;·-;;;;~~ 
sage is for you. What's the secret word? Deoxyribonucleic acid. I haven't asked you that since I was 17, so young and foolish. Hope your cold is better. Mine went away so yours shouldn't be to far behind.(HMM) Scout's Honor. lm like, Another yodeling Cubs fan 
································································ 
PATTYII The countdown fa over-U R 
LEGALIIOH BOY! -and I DIDN'T even get to your preMnt ftml Heppy Bdey, Love, MOON 
LINDA, I LOVED THE JEANS YOU WERE WEARING YESTERDAY! DON'T EVER TAKE THEM OFF. WELL, MAYBE P.S. DO YOU HAVE ANY SPE· CIAL VISITORS THIS WEEKEND? HANZ 
AIDE FOR 2 NEEDED TO ANYWHERE WITHIN 2 HAS. DRIVE OF NYC FOR OCT. BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES ·CALL BRIAN AT X2035 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS AND 2 MIAMI STUDENT TIXS. PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT 277-3268 AFTER 5 P.M. 
URBAN PLUNGEIII INFORMATION AND REGISTRATION PACKETS AVAILABLE NOW! CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERN OR SEE YOUR HALL REP FOR INFO. FIND OUT MORE...MAKE A PLUNGE II 
SWEETHEART, LOVE IS TOO WEAK TO DEFINE JUST WHAT YOU MEAN TO ME THANKS FOR THE BEST 5 MONTHS EVER! LOVE ME 
member of the College of Busi­ness Administration Advisory Council since 1962. He and his wife, Geraldine, live in Pied­mont, California. 

The Martin J. Gillen Dean­ship was established by Notre Dame to honor a benefactor, a native of Wisconsin who went onto become a successful cor­poration financial advisor in New York City. 
The College of Business Ad­ministration, founded in 1921, is the University's second larg­est college, with 1,600 under­graduates and 300 MBA stu­dents. 
ROCK AND ROLL AS fT WAS SUP· POSSED TO BE (HOW MANY TIMES HAVE YOU HEARD SOME TWINKlE CAMPUS BAND SAY THAT?) HOs­TILE, SWEATY AND STUPID. SOUNDS LIKE A CROSS BETWEEN CZAR, 
RICK  AND  BRUNEEL  TONIGHT  
BRJDGETTES  11-9  TONIGHT  
BRIDGETTES 6-9  

Tonight at Club 23 
SEAN & the SUN KINGS 9p.m.-12 $1 cover live acoustic music!! Sean & the Sun Kings .... Club 23... 
Friday at Senor Kelly's... Sean & the Sun Kings in their final appearance of the semester 
SEAN & THE SUN KINGS 
LOOK I I em taking e poll. It you think Robin Vlllenueve Ia gre!d, pfeeM cell 3474 end let Barb know. 
JAMISON INN -PURDUE WEEKEND 
Some room• evelleble. Cell for reaervllllona. 277-1111112. 
SMC STUDENTS LIKE IT ALlAN FOOD? SIGN UP FOR SAB'S VIVA ITALIAN NIGHT 5-6:30 SEPT 28. SIGN UPS FRIDAY (23) IN DINING HALL. IrS FREEl 
I NEED MIAMI STUD TICKETS CALL KAREN 277-29891 
Andy-Sorry for all of the trouble I have caused. 
I am really sorry. My sister was right Your are a really sweet guy. I'll call you 
soon. 
Your SMC, Andrea Olsen 


GIANT COLLEGE BLANKETS 
Beautifully woven high-pile acrylic blankets 



ONLY S241L~ SJ91L~:::~u 
Exactly the kind of blanket you've been wanting ...warm, luxurious, beautifully woven in your school's official colors. It's great as a bedspread ... a wall display...a lap wrap at the games. These lifetime-quality blankets are soft, thick high-pile acrylic (warm but lightweight) in a big BO"x55" size. Machine washable, too. And reversible, With the same insignia and colors appearing front and back. 
l I 
ALUMNI-BRING BACK HAPPY MEMORIES. Own the official blanket of your alma mater. Ideal for the car, boat, guest 
________..._. __________________
room, and to give as gifts_ Order yours today on MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. 
MAIL TO: Call Toll-Free Anytime College Blankets 
1-800-972-5858 

One American Way, Roanoke, VA 24016 
Credit Cards Only 

YES, please rush my Official College Blanket(s) for just $24.95 each, or 2 for $39.90. (Add $6.00 ship. & hdlg. per blanket.) 
42 COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES-TAKE YOUR PICK 
Select your school(s) listed below: 
D Alabama Unlv.  l:"'lowa Univ.  D Penn State  
D Arkansas Unlv.  D Maryland Univ.  D Pittsburgh Unlv.  
D Auburn Univ.  D Marquette Univ.  D So. Methodist  
D Baylor Univ.  D Memphis State  D Syracuse Unlv.  
D Clemson Univ.  D Michigan State  D Temple Unlv.  
D Duke Unlv.  D Michigan Univ.  OTexasA&M  
D Florida State  D Minnesota Univ.  D Texas Christian  
D Florida Univ.  D Nebraska Univ.  D Texas Unlv.  
D Georgetown  D No. Caroi.Univ.  DU.C.L.A.  
D Georgia Univ.  D Notre Dame  D U. Southern CAL  
D Georgia Tech.  D Ohio State  D U.S. Air Force Acad.  
D Houston Unlv.  D Okla. State  D U.S. Military Acad.  
D Illinois Univ.  D Okla. Univ.  D U.S. Naval Acad.  
D Iowa State  D Ore. State U  D Vandebllt Univ.  

CHARGE TO: OVISA 0 MasterCard 
Acct.# 

Exp. date ___________ 
Qty. __Total Enclosed $________(VA res. add sales tax) 
Name~---------------------------------------­
Address -----------------------------------­City ________________State ____Zip _____ 
Tel.#( ----------------•©WAJ\1988 




Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, September 22, 1988 
Invitation of Stevens degrades University 
Supreme Court ;Justice John Paul Stevens will be the featured speaker at the dedication, on Friday, Sept. 23, of the Courtroom at the Notre Dame Law School. The choice of Justice Stevens for this honor is inappropriate. 
Charles E. Rice 
guest coLumn 

Although he was not a member of the Supreme Court in 1973 when it decided, in Roe vs. Wade, that state prohibitions of abortions were unconstitutional, Jus­tice Stevens is one of the four Justices now on the Court who uphold Roe and apply it rigorously against attempts by the states to regulate abortion. In the 1986 Thornburn case, the Court held un­constitutional Pennsylvania statutes restricting abortion, including one re­
r quirement that, in post-viability 
r"' abortions, the physician must use the care and techniques that would "provide the best opportunity for the unborn child to be aborted alive" unless that technique "would present a signif­icantly greater medical risk to the life or health of the pregnant woman." Chief Justice Warren Burger, who had voted with the majority Roe vs. Wade, dissented in Thornburgh. As a result, the Thornburgh case was decided by one vote. Justice Stevens, however, voted with the majority and wrote an opinion enphasizing the non­personhood of the unborn child. Justice Powell, who voted with that majority, has since been replaced with Justice Kennedy. Justice Stevens, it is true, has voted and argued at times against the Court majority and in favor of state requirements that parents give their consent or at least be notified before a dependent minor obtains an abortion, as in Danforth in 1976 and Matheson in 1981. Nevertheless, he is generally an indispensable member of the four-
Justice Stevens, how­
ever, voted with the 
majority and wrote an 
opinion emphasizing the 
non-personhood of the 
unborn child. 
Justice bloc which has continued the rigid application of Roe, as seen in the Thornburgh case. 
We may assume that Justice Stevens is "personally opposed" to abortion. And undoubtedly his motivations are noble. However, the inappropriateness of this invitation arises from the transcendent importance of Roe vs. Wade. In that case and its companion case of Doe vs. Bolton, the Supreme Court ruled that the unborn child is not a person at any time before birth, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment which protects the rights of a "person" to life and to the equal protection of the laws. The framers of the Fourteenth Amendment did not spe­cifically consider the status of the un­born child, but they clearly intended that all human beings would be per~ sons. This was a reaction to the Dred Scott case in 1857, in which the Supreme Court held that freed slaves were not citizens and said that slaves were prop­erty rather than persons. 
In Roe vs. Wade, the Supreme Court said that it would not decide whether the unborn child is a human being. In­stead, the Court held that he is not a "person" and therefore his right to life is not protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. The mother's privacy right to have an abortion (a right which the Court discovered in its own rulings since 1965) prevails over the non-right of the non-person in her wgmb. The Court went on to spell out, in effect, a license for elective abortion at every stage of pregnancy until birth. 
In Roe vs. Wade, the Court held that whether or not the unborn child is a human being, his is not a person. The decision is thus the same in effect as a frank ruling that an acknowledged human being is a non-person and has no rights. It is a resurrection of the spirit of the Dred Scott case. And it is precisely the principle that underlay the Nazi extermination of the Jews, that an innocent human being can be declared to be a non-person and sub­jected to death at the discretion of others. 
Of course, if the unborn child can be treated as a non-person so as to be killed at the discretion of others, so can his elder, retarded brother or his grand­mother. I(a human being can be sub­jected -to death at the discretion of others, he is to that extent a non-person. The ethic of depersonalization is reflected in the now prevailing rule that permits withholding of food and water, with the intent to cause death, from retarded infants and incompetent adult patients including some who are con­scious and not terminally ill. We tend to call this compassion. A more realis­tic view would call it murder. But the institutionalization of murder is not surprising in a society which accpets legalized abortion. For the irreducible reality is that every abortion, at whatever stage of pregnancy, causes the death of an innocent human being. 
We have no right to judge the internal culpability, or lack of it, of anyone in­volved in abortion. But, in the objective moral sense though not in the technical legal sense, every abortion, as the deliberate killing of an innocent human being, is a murder. Leo Alexander, M.D., who wrote the seminal analysis with respect to the American situation, "It is much like Germany in the '20s and '30s--the barriers against killing are being removed." (see Joseph R. Stanton, M.D., The New Unter­menschen, Human Life Review, Fall, 1985, 77, 82) 
In this context the invitation to Justice 
Stevens by this Catholic law school is 
inappropriate. I am sure that the invi­
tation was not intended as an affirma­
tion by Notre Dame that his view on 
legalized abortion is correct. However, 
by this invitation we tell our students that abortion is merely one consititu­tional issue among others and that it really does not make all that much dif­ferenct whether a lawyer or judge sup­ports the depersonalization of innocent human beings. We imply that the im­portant thing is to be a "competent" lawyer; yet it hardly vouches for one's professional competence if he is unable to see the centrality of this issue as of Dred Scott. We encourage our students to show "compassion" to the poor and 
But, in the objective moral sense though not in the technical legal sense, every abortion, as the deliberate killing of an innocent human being, is a murder. 
helpless. Yet the poorest and most help­less victim of all is the child who is murdered in the womb; society's an­swer to the difficult pregnancy should be, not to kill the baby, but to help the mother and the child, before and after the birth, as long and as fully as nec­essary. We encourage our students to serve the cause of "peace"; we would do well to remind them, as Mother Theresa has often said, that "The greatest destroyer of peace in the world is abortion." And we encourage our stu­dents to work to build a just moral or­der. We might remind them of what Pope John Paul II said at the Capitol Mall in Washington in 1979: "If a per­son's right to life is violated at the mo­ment in which he is first conceived in his mother's womb, an indirect blow is struck also at the whole of the moral order, which serves to ensure the in­violable goods of man. Among these goods, life occupies the first place." 
The invitation to Justice Stevens, I am certain, was well intentioned. But surely there were other suitable per­sons who could have been honorea with this invitation wother than a Supreme Court Justice whose one vote has kept the regime of legalized abortion intact. The invitation disserves our students and degrades the University. 
Charles E. Rice is a professor of law at the University of Notre Dame Law School. 
P.O. Box Q 
Pro-lifers guilty of hypocrisy 
bear Editor: 

In the four years that I have been at Notre Dame, the moral righteousness of those opposing abortion has never failed to amaze me. Recently we have seen articles by them alongside others praising the role of the military or ROTC. I have often wondered what the crossover is between these two groups, 
i.e. how many of those who support the military are also anti-abortionists? I am sure the figure would be of interest to many. How many anti-abortionists do you think would protest if an army general were to give a talk at Notre Dame instead of an executive from a pharmaceutical company. 
Why have the anti-abortionists cho­sen to focus on this particular aspect of "violence to humanity" when there are many more instances of violence in the world around us? There is no ambiguity when a poor peasant is killed in Central America, very often by U.S.­made guns or bombs. This is a loss of real human lives, not a group of cells that is often not even visible. There is no ambiguity when 35,000 die of starva­tion every day (compared to 30,000 aborted fetuses, as another letter in The Observer informs us). These are real flesh and blood people with fathers and mothers and sisters and brothers who weep for them even if the anti­abortionists do not. Or the hundreds dead in Africa or the Middle East due to political violence. Ask yourself how many are being killed and do you really care? It is hypocritical for the anti­abortionists to portray themselves as defenders of human life when all they really are are religious fundamen­talists, unable to look beyond their dog­matism. Some can even bomb clinics while claiming to be pro-life. 
We were given a quick course on pros­taglandins by Mr. Rothfus in his Sept. 12 column although he forgot to mention that birth control is not their only use. Prostaglandins belong to a large family of compounds that are produced in many tissues and apparently have a va­riety of functions in the body. Even the prostaglandins he mentions have clini­cal uses in the management of miscar­riage and in the induction of labor at term. He also forgot to mention (again?!) that while Upjohn did develop these products, they no longer conduct research on the reproductive functions of prostaglandins, focusing instead on the treatment of ulcers and cardiovascular diseases. 
Mr. Rothfus even quotes feminists in the column, when they have been con­sistently pro-cboice. He would also have us believe that he is concerned about third world countries! Depo­provera, the drug mentioned, is the least of their problems. In any case these countries have often been used as testing grounds for new products by western pharmaceutical companies, this did not start with the use of Depo­provera. Or were the anti-abortionists aware of that? 
Mukul Ranjan Off-campus Sept. 21, 1988 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
60VERNOR? ~'9 A GUY ON THe PHON£3  ITIA/A5 ABOIJTMAR/T/M£3 l.AIAJ ANO FISHING RiGHTS. I OUT­ IT INCWIJ/39 t:UM/NATINf37HfJ9?; ANOMAl-1?3 A~D IN 7H13  
tf/HO MN15 70 KNOW WHAT Y?37E:RJ?AY'S  UNW A 2?rPOJNT PR06RAM THAT aJUW P05mON 71115  APP/3UAT8 C:OUKT RULJNG ON 7718 5Tim3 OF MA93ACHIJse775  
M/39SAGe -OF-TH£3­OAY WAS. ANY 105/r? / 5(/,RE,.,  JRY 70 CAPITAl-f!& a-1 WJ/15/NG ---­PROV/9/0NS IN CX/5'TIN6 CHAR:r8RS.  v. 5TAR KIST. INAOPmON,., ~  
""'  ~  

Quote of the Day 
"Some people come into our lives and quickly go. Some stay for awhile, leave footprints on our hearts-­
and  we are never the  
same."  
Flavia  Weedn  

--~--­

Viewpoint
Thursday, September 22, 1988 page 11 
a 


'Prosperous' era ignores harsh facts 
Some supporters of George Bush claim to talk economic facts in defense of the economic record of the ReagawBush administration. We agree that it is essential to look at the eco­nomic facts of the last eight years; the trouble is that Reaga!YBush defenders tend to forget some facts. 
Kathryn English Kimberly Lane 
guest column 

Are you better off now than you were eight years ago? The answer might be yes if the only people questioned were in the top five percent of this country's wage earners. It is certainly true that this small minority has enjoyed sub­stantial financial growth. However, ac­cording to a recent report published by the Economic Policy Institute, the fact is that the workers in the bottom 60 percent are actually worse off than they were eight years ago. It reports that since the ReagawBush Administration took office "more than 3 million workers moved down the ladder from jobs with mid-level earnings to jobs with low-level earnings." The rich got richer while the poor got poorer. Real hourly wages for males (as adjusted for inflation) actually dropped seven percent during the Reagan Administra­tion. Would these people say that they are better off today than they were eight years ago? Doubtful. 
ReagawBush defenders quote the statistic that "3 million people less are now living below the poverty level than in 1982." However, they fail to acknowl­edge the fact that from 1979-1986 the number of full-time year-round workers who earn less than the poverty level actually increased by more than 600,000. In fact, according to Robert Greenstein of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, "poverty levels are far higher than the (1978) 11.4 percent figure and 8 million more Americans. are poor today." Another fact: More than one seventh of our country's pop­ulation was living below the poverty level last year. 
Some also applaud the ReagawBush Administration for creating "18 million jobs," over half of which they describe as "good jobs" that earn over $20,000 a year. Yet the fact is that this same administration cut spending on educa­tion and training, making these "good jobs" inaccessible to the majority of the now unemployed. These jobs may be good news to a Notre Dame student, but the average American is not able to attend a prestigious university or indeed, receive any post-high school training at all. These $20,000 job oppor­tunities are simply not a reality for them. Related to this, another fact of interest is that the average number of business failures each year of the ReagawBush Administration was ap­proximately double the previous high and nearly triple the post-war average, as cited in an economic report by the Budget Committee. 
Some accuse Governor Dukakis of using "smoke and mirrors" to create the illusion of a balanced budget. What are the facts of the ReagawBush budget? Reagan was elected on a prom­ise to: one, balance the national budget; two, reduce taxes; and three, increase military spending. "Smoke and mirrors?" Did it work? No. He reduced the tax burden of the best-off. He spent more on the military. He did more to worsen the deficit tha·n any president in history. His tax cut was never intended to help balance the budget. David Stockman openly stated, when it was all over, that the "tax less-
The rich got richer while the poor got poorer. Real hourly wages for males ... dropped seven percent during the Reagan administration. 
spend more" plan was intended to create a deficit so bad that Congress would be forced to cut spending on so­cial programs. Congratulations David; your plan worked brilliantly. The tax cut has not been vindicated. The recent so-called economic boom has been financed by an irresponsible federal spending spree paid for with borrowed money. What is truly outrageous is that Reagan and Bush, who borrowed it, are not going to have to pay it back. Who will? We will. The percentage of the budget going to pay interest on the def-
SURf Wf Nf~D 

ASTRONG DEFENSf BUT Wf ALSO NHD A 
COMPfTfNT COMMANDfR· IN-CUIEF! AM IRIGI/T?.. 
• 
icit was roughly doubled under Reagan and Bush. We are going to pay higher taxes for the rest of our lives because of Reagan and Bush's "voodoo econom­ics." 
The evidence continues. The Reaga!YBush administration doubled the merchandise trade deficit during its first term, averaging $64.9 billion a 
The percentage of the budget going to pay interest on the defecit was doubled under Reagan and Bush. 
year. The figure during the second term is even more appalling as it skyrock­eted to $151.1 billion. In 1985, for the first time in history, this country be­came a debtor nation in total balance of payments. As quoted from AFL-CIO News, this debt has risen past the $400 billion mark this past year. The ReagawBush administration did raise taxes. Of course, these tax increases (things like reducing or eliminating deductions for medical expenses and casualty losses) hurt the middle class more than the wealthy. It is true that, as a group, the elderly are better off than ever before. Why? Because the Democrats made it politically impossible for Reagan and Bush to tamper with cost-of-living adjustments to Social Security benefits. The only reason the deficit is not even worse is that Democrats in Congress prevented Reagan and Bush from reducmg taxes of the wealthy even more than it did and from spending even more than it did on the military. 

Facts are stubborn things. The bot­
, tom line fact is that the ReagawBush economic policies justify retiring both of them in November. We cannot afford four more years of Bush's "voodoo eco­nomics." 
Kathryn English and Kimberly Lane are sophomores currently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. 

London trip opens new dimensions 
As I write, I am overlooking bustling Piccadilly Circus, the heart of London's theatre district. Similar to New York's theatre area, Piccadilly radiates with bright neon signs, majestic theatres and hordes of excited people. Yet Pic­cadilly, and this city as a whole, exudes an elegance and civilty of which New York can only dream. 
Michael Schadek 
abroad 
From the moment I set foot in Lon­don, it was obvious that I was to expe­rience a brand new lifestyle. From the bright red double-decker buses to the old-fashioned black cabs, city transpor­tation is but one small facet of the vast differences I have encountered here. Although I have been on the London Program for scarcely more than a few weeks, adjusting to the changes has been easy, and more importantly, fun. No longer do I become angry about the fact that I have not figured out the cur­rency, and no longer do I concern myself with the fact that cars and buses are heading directly toward me from the right rather than the left. I have also accepted the fact that London's fast food restaurants charge 5 pence (almost a dime) for ketchup. I have resolved myself to accept all tlie differ­ences and "live, learn and love Lon­don." I'm beginning to sound more and more like a tourist representative, I fear, but love London is precisely what I do. 
Within the short time I have been here I have gazed at Big Ben and Par­liament at night from a boat cruise on the Thames. Although our disc jockey knew we were Americans and thus felt compelled to play five Michael Jackson songs in a row, the cruise was a fan­tastic opportunity to see the city at night. We have also experienced the legendary London theatre by way of three plays, and some students han already made use of their plastic at Harrod's. 

The next three and a half months are certain to be an educational period un­like any I have ever experienced. I have already been challenged in some of my most fundamental beliefs. For in­stance, last Sunday an Iranian gentleman tried for 45 minutes to con­vince me that the United States is the greatest terrorist organization in the world which savagely destroys inno­cent Iranian citizens aboard commer­cial .airliners. This man was a fixture of Speakers Corner in Hyde Park where every Sunday any individual can speak about anything they wish while the huge crowd heckles and jeers. It is all very interesting, very hip and very Lon­donesque. 
I never realized education--real education--could be so exciting, but the London Program is proving the fact. Living and studying in London provides a broad new dimension of the world, and that must be good. So, while I miss the campus and beautiful South Bend, I'll stay in London a while longer. Be­sides, Big Ben keeps much better time than the Sacred Heart clock. 
Michael Schadek is a senior in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters currently studying in London, and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year In VIew­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to 
P.O. Box Q, VIew­point Department, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 

-
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 

' Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tile University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts 
Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either inst"ution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary"s Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 

is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 

campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 



Accent 
page 12 Thursday, September 22, 1988 
Air Force's 'Tops in Blue' returns to NO 

DAVID DESALLE accent writer 

S 
ynthesizing art, music, special effects, and choreography is the prime characteristic of an award winning Broadway show. It is also the key to the perfor­mances of "Tops in Blue," the U.S. Air Force's top en­tertainment touring group. 
This troupe of specially talented military personnel will be giving a free ninety­minute performance at 8 p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 22, at the Stepan Center. Last year, the performers rocked the Joyce ACC before a crowd of over 5,000 students. According to Nick Rossi, the Cultural Arts Commissioner for the Student Union Board, a comparable audience is expected for this year's performance of "The Magic of Imagination" which will combine comedy, dan­cing, singing, and the modern sound of the Heavy Blue Ex­press, the group's guitalikeyboard based musi­cal accompaniment. 
The show tells the story of Kay, a lonely young girl who lives on Swing Street and joins a group of neighborhood kids in search of adventure. They are drawn to "The Magic of Imagination," the town's toy shop where they enjoy mischievous childish fun. That is, until Old Man Irwin surpises the group, causing it to scatter with Kay left behind. Irwin recognizes that Kay needs a friend and helps her to use her imagina­tion. She learns she has the ability to face life with both realistic goals and her own dreams in mind. 
The cast of "Tops in Blue" is selected from over 250 tal­ent contest finalists who are chosen from thousands of par­ticipants in the annual Air Force worldwide talent con­test. These finalists are sub­ject to more than a week of interviews, intense competi­tion, and auditions. The "Tops in Blue" candidates then have a month of rehear­sals at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas. Eighteen-hour 


The Rime of the Ancient Roadtripper 
-
-· 
WVFI 
AM64 
TOP TEN ALBUMS 
Sept. 6 -Sept. 13 
1. 
JESUS AND MARY CHAIN Barbed Wire Kisses 

2. 
IN TUA NUA The Long Acre 

3. 
SCREAMING TRIBESMAN Bones and Flowers 

4. 
BIG AUDIO DYNAMITE Tighten Up Vol. '88 5. UB40 UB40 



6. 
Married to the Mob Soundtrack 

7. 
HOT HOUSE FLOWERS People 

8. 
SHREIKBACK Go Bang! · 

9. 
SIOUXIE &THE BANSAEES Peek A Boo 


10. 
PAUL KELLY &THE MESSENGERS Under the Sun 


day sessions produce the 
theme and content of the 
show and after that grueling 
month, the cast is ready to 
begin its worldwide tour. 
Since !953, "Tops in Blue" has provided professional en­tertainment to both Air Force personnel and members of the civilian community. Leonarda J. Sarinas, a ''Tops in Blue" vocalist, said that the biggest reward is the op­portunity to be part of some­thing that does so much for so many people. The group has appeared on television on numerous occasions, notably during the 1950's on the Ed Sullivan Show, and in 1985 when a 52-member cast and 1,000 volunteers performed in the half-time show of Super Bowl XIX. In 1987, it helped to coordinate production for the "Bob Hope Birthday Spe­cial." 
"Tops in Blue" usually ap­pears at Air Force bases, but according to Captain T. DuPre, assistant professor of aerospace studies, "They look for unique opportunities to perform. Originally Colonel year that "Tops in Blue" has Dave Woods, come to South Bend. professor of aerospace studies DuPre said, "Anybody will , invited 'Tops in Blue' to per­be generally surprised by the form here through his friend, show. You'll leave the show Tom Edwards, the head of feeling good." So take a Air Force entertainment. The break from the books tonight group has since returned for and let "Tops in Blue" help many successful perfor­you explore "The Magic of mances." This is the fifth Imagination." 

RICHARD THORNBURGH accent writer 

"The Rime of the Ancient Roadtripper" It is an ancient Roadtripper Who corners me at the bar With long gray beard and glittering eye He has journeyed from afar. 
The Lansing crowd is merry As the Irish await the game. The domers file into Dooley's To cheer the Irish fame. 
He tells me of his pilgrimage: And I cannot choose but hear; And thus spoke on that ancient man, The bright-eyed Roadtripper. 
"Two weeks ago we left South Bend With a six-pack for the road, Legs soon cram·ped, an empty tank, Unsure of where to go. 
Michigan State was somewhere north, At least that was our belief; The cold ones went down quickly But bean fields gave relief. 
Three days thus we journeyed Not knowing where we went; 'Is this Lansing?' I asked a man: 'No sir, this is Flint.' 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~, n\IS IS 0JR ~~ 0011€. 
CbMIC. ~... COI>\\C lli:X:*S.. 
1\JNt>. ... ~t ONO'i BAAS ... ~0 St.T \lP CAMP. 
I GUE'3S 't.IE SI-IOJ\.D \lNI'KK 
MoR£ 1\INI>. ... 10<:)1}\SR\!'51\ts... f... 0.~ OP£N£R ... LOOK'S UKI:. WE~ N.LSU. 
Through the cornfields our car did fly Until it sputtered to a stop: The gaskets blown, transmission stripped, The radiator shot. 
Our trusty craft we left behind And journeyed forth on foot; Our legs grew weary, our sight grew dim As miles behind we put. 
Then lo, a sight of wonder 
Amazed our tired eyes: From beneath those noble corn stalks John Cougar did arise. 
'Howdy, folks. Lookin for State? It's just around the bend.' Then the prophetic saint of farmers Vanished in the wind. 
This eerie sight inspired us all To set forth once again. We finally arrived in Lansing Seeking pubs and an Irish win." 
Thus spoke the ancient Roadtripper, Haggered from his plight. I ordered another and pondered his tale As he danced away the night. 
'Tis a strange tale, to be sure, One I never sought, For I have nev.er heard one speak in rhyme, But the habit is rubbing off. 
• Bill Watterson 
,... KIQIT uGHr. r 1 1\10\lG\IT IT MIG\11 BE SCAR'( Sill.PING 0\11 
~ "'tW PlANE\. 
-
r--------------------------------------------------------­
ND students, members of Foodshare, regularly share food from the University Dining Hall with the Hope Rescue Mission in downtown South Bend. 
Making Education Come Alive: The Story of Scott 
Scott graduated from a prestigious boys' South Bend. He signed up and started in late had learned and where he was heading, he 
high school in Boston. To his parents' delight September. realized that his education was only beginning he was admitted to Notre Dame. He was His four years at Notre Dame were years and that his instincts when he was a freshman scared when he arrived. having heard so much of growth and change. He learned that he were incredibly good--getting involved and about the competition he would face didn't want to be a lawyer--even though his opening oneself to new experiences IS a way to academically and how he would be living and Dad was still sure that he would become a make education come alive. studying with the "cream of the crop." His partner in the family firm. He learned that Scott took advantage of the educational instincts told him that the way to begin to fit in friendships are powerfully important and experience that is offered at Notre Dame. He at Notre Dame was to get involved in difficult at the same time. He went to France tried new experiences and tested new ideas. something worthwhile in addition to for a year and came back knowing how much His experience at Notre Dame will continue to 
academics. He was looking forward to he had yet to learn. His tutoring expanded to be a part ot his life. Whatever his choices are intramural basketball--he had heard all about work with juvenile delinquents and a summer for the future, they will be made in light of the famous Bookstore tradition--but that wasn't project with street people in Los Angeles. All what he learned by becoming involved. The until spring. So he went to Activities Night in these experiences led him to appreciate in a Center for Social Concerns is one vital way search of something that would put him in special way the ideas and writings to which his that students can get the most out of their touch with some new people and help him live professors exposed him. In his senior year he education at Notre Dame. the "Notre Dame Experience." He found out joined a Senior Reflection Group and began to he could tutor two times a week with other think about life after Notre Dame. As he Kathy Royer students at a Hispanic neighborhood center in talked with his fellow seniors about what he Coordinator, Service/Social Action Groups 
Commission helps Center
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
LUNCHES 
In this Year of Cultural Diversity the 



with projects
Center is especially happy to invite people to participate in our Social Concerns 
This year Student Government is working very organize new, unexpected and innovative Lunches. These give the campus a taste of 
closely with the Center to facilitate student activities. This year a variety of special projects the richness of a variety of cultures. The 
community service. There are commissions are being undertaken with the Commission, Center staff assists students and social 
within the Student Body Cabinet which direct including the CROP Walk, a Thanksgivingservice groups to sponsor lunches which 
their efforts to this cause. One of these, the food drive, and this Center publication. focus on issues of social concern both in our 
Social Concerns Commission, works in For additional information, contact the Social local and our global community. The 
conjunction with the many organizations, both Concerns Commissioners: sponsoring group prepares and serves a 
on and off campus, affiliated with the Center, Brian Shea meal which generates proceeds that are used 
such as the World Hunger Coalition, the 121 St. Edward's Hall (283-1805)by the group to support their service 
Church World Service and the Community Mary Sue Twohy programs. 
Service Commission. In effect, the 233 Lyons (283-4414) Commission aids the Center to prepare and 
The Urban Plunge: Why Participate? 
-"After spending part of my Christmas break on the Urban Plunge, I was struck by the glaring disparity between the rich and the poor. -For Bill. a mentally retarded 28 year old, the most mundane task of setting the table for dinner is an impossibility. 
-Growing up in a well-structured family seems to be taken for granted by most of us. Yet. physical and mental abuse is an everyday thing for the children I encountered at a school we visited. 
-A simple comment about the type of food at the dining hall would never enter your mind if this were the only meal you and your family would have today." 
From Shane O'F/aherty, The Ohsen•er, 1/88 

Early this year 288 students took part in the Urban Plunge--a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame and St. Mary's students have never seen. This year's Plunge will occur sometime during the week of January 6-13. Its purpose: 
-To experience injustice, apathy and poverty; -To increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and -To witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. 
" • • .IN SERVICE TO THE BROADER COMMUNITY. " 
I think that at the local level, the Center allows us to be present students sense what these people do through their work, and come back to significantly in service to the broader community around us. Whether it is Notre Dame to reflect about it. young people who need tutoring, or elderly people who are confined, or Of course, there are also programs during the summers both in this people who are suffering from problems with addiction or people who have country and abroad. 
been in trouble with the law, or whatever, we are presented with All of this allows us to prepare our students to think about their futures opportunities for service. differently, and to develop a value oriented Christian concern for the needy In addition to that, the Urban Plunge Program offers a fairly large members of our local communities and our world. number of students the opportunity to get in touch with people in their local 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. University President 
communities who work there day in and day out in these areas. The 
From a 1988 videotape interview 
Center for Social Concerns 
The Center is a component of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry of the University of Notre Dame. 
1988-89 DIRECTORY 
SERVICE and SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS 

American Red Cross Amnesty International NO Anti-Apartheid Network Big Brothers/Big Sisters Center for BasicLearning 
Skills Circle K Community for the 
International Lay 

Apostolate Council for the Retarded Council for Fun and Learn Dismas House Foodshare Graduate Association for 
Latin America Habitat for Humanity Knights of Columbus Legal Services Madison Center National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People Neighborhood Study Help Program Northern Indiana State 
Development Center NO/SMC Project Head Start Pax Christi Student Advocate Volunteers 
for the Elderly Student Tutorial Education 
Program St. Thomas More Society Volunteers for the Overnight 
Shelter for the Homeless . Women United for Justice and 
Peace World Hunger Coalition Youth Services Bureau 

Center for Social Concerns paid advertisement The Obse1 


Groups enrich students and community 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP COMMUNITY FOR THE 

WOMEN UNITED FOR
PROGRAM INTERNATIONAL LAY 
JUSTICE AND PEACE
The Neighborhood Study Help Program (NSHP) is the largest 
APOSTOLATE 
volunteer service organization on the Notre Dame I St. Mary's campuses. We tutor South Bend area school children of various The Community for the International Lay Apostolate (CILA) is a backgrounds from kindergarten to the high school level. Usually, group of students who feel that, for them, living a Christian, service­The members of WUPJ have joined together to educat 
each tutor works with one child. Tutors visit the children at a school oriented life-style involves integrating this "orientation" into many ourselves and others to grow in the power of our commo or neighborhood center twice a week for approximately one hour. different aspects of their lives. Thus, there are four aspects of sisterhood, to lead us to an understanding of our responsibilities i We provide transportation. CILA, each with its own projects. Our EDUCATION projects the world today, and to the action we must take accordingly. Th 
Questions? Please call Tara Durney (237-9533), Elizabeth include faculty-dinner discussion groups centering on social issues goals of the organization are: 
Blaney (283-3619), or Jennifer Thoene (283-1334). and workshops. Our SERVICE projects include playing with kids at -Informed discussion and creative action on vital issues o a day-care center, going to Appalachia over Fall Break, and to justice and peace Mexico for a month in the summer. Our SPIRITUALITY activities -Affirmation of the belief that together we can make 1 include weekly reflection groups and an annual retreat. Our difference for peace and justice 
FOODSHARE SOCIAL activities include camping trips and dinner parties. -Spiritual nourishment to our peace-making CILA people become involved with whichever project(s) they -Celebration of our common humanity
Foodshare is a voluntary student-run organization designed to choose, depending on their time and interests. New members are -Cooperation with local, national and inter-national peace andirectly feed the hungry in the South Bend area with food left over most welcome. If you would like more specific information on our justice groups from the dining hall. The food is taken to homeless shelters, Hope 
projects, call Pete Morgan (283-1205). If interested contact Kristin Komyatte at 283-3791.
Rescue Mission, Dismas House, and the Co-op 65 program. Each student volunteers for approximately two hours once a week. Foodshare also promotes student awareness of waste and hunger around us. If you can volunteer for even an hour to feed someone else, please call Lisa Mackett, 283-4945. 
, ~ 
r 


r 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 

No More Shacks! This is the motto of Habitat for Humanity, a service organization devoted to en~ing _th~ poverty hou_s~ng _crisis worldwide. Founded in 1976, Habitat 1s m over 200 cltles m the United States and in countries throughout the world. Habitat members participate in the construction of ho.~es for _low-income families. The houses are sold to these fam1hes at mterest-free mortgages, providing an affordable alternat~ve to slum~ or housing projects. Prospective homeowners are reqmred to p_ut m 500 hours of "sweat equity" -that is 500 hours of labor on theu own home or other Habitat homes. 
The Notre Dame campus chapter is a charter member of Habitat's campus program, and is the first campus Habitat chapter to be established at a Catholic university. The ND group sends weekly work crews to the South Bend project site and welcomes all volunteers. Specific construction skills are not necessary. In addition to the weekly work crews., the ca!llp~s organizatio_n also meets monthly on campus to coordinate actiVIties as well as mform 
the membership of Habitat activities worldwide. For further information please contact Kevin Mundy at 283-3797, or Krista Smith at 283-2639. 
AMERICAN RED CROSS 

The ND I SMC branch of the American Red Cross is a group of students who provide first aid services at ND home football games, basketball -games, concerts, An Tostal, interhall sports, and more. We also operate a Quick Response System whereby we are on stand­
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS DISMAS HOUSE 
by to provide first aid or transportation to the Student Health "Charity, Unity, Fraternity, Patriotism": These are the The Dismas House student group is a relatively new projecCenter when needed. All of the events we work in guarantee free cornerstones of the Knights of Columbus. First and foremost is working in cooperation with the Dismas Board of South Bend uadmission. Call Brother Louis Hurcik (239-7053) about classes. 
Charity, at the heart of all activities of the Knights, from Council operate a community of former prisoners and students. Thi:Our current student coordinator is Brian Dinardo (272-3405). It's a Masses and Rosaries to volunteering our services for retarded community promotes bonds of trust and friendship between students great way to help the community and make friends. Call Brian with 
citizens. and former prisoners, and serves as an unstructured rehabilitatioi any questions. 
The Knights of Columbus, Council number 1477, and our sister program for the former prisoners who often need to be reconcile 
organization, the Ladies of Columbus, remain dedicated to our with society . Any student who is interested in living at Dism 
history and traditions. If interested, stop by the Council building, House next fall should contact Kathy Royer (239-7862). next to the Bookstore, or call at (239-7018).
rPa,\ Chn!iU 

"It's no big thing. I just wanted 1




,.,ridhungerc.a~lihoo 
because their 
"/ Pax Christi -Notre Dame is ... -a community of support and friendship 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition was -a way to work for peace founded in 1974 to educate our community on the issues related to 
VOLUNTEERS FOR THE 
-a group of people committed to creative consciousness-raising the tragedy of world hunger. A second purpose is to actively 
-a source of strength for peacemakers participate in the fight against world hunger, and thirdly, to foster OVERNIGHT SHELTER FOR THEI We meet bi-weekly (usually Tuesday nights) ,for prayer, discussion, spiritual growth among the members of the coalition. 
and action. At our meetings you may find: Our largest undertaking is the Wednesday lunch fast each HOMELESS i -a bunch of fun people semester, where hundreds of students forfeit their lunch This club is new. Its main task is to organize the volunteers il -lively discussions symbolically. The cost of the food is donated directly to various the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community for work at the Overnigt Shelter for the Homeless. Also, it will work actively to publiciz
-brainstorming creative alternatives or solutions to violence and hunger relief and developmental programs. Other WHC programs 
injustice include bi-weekly meetings and speakers, visits to local soup the problem of homelessness in America to the college communit~ -fig newtons and milk kitchens, participation in World Food D\IY and Third World through speakers, articles, and fundraisers. If you are interested i volunteering at the shelter, or in helping the homeless through othc
-people who want to make a difference (no matter how small, or Awareness Week. 
to means, contact Kelly McGoldrick (283-2812) or Diane Ricker (28:,big!) in a world hungry for justice and peace. For more information, The WHC is always open energetic suggestions and 
call Julie Coyle (283-3784), or Jeff Long (283-2450). enthusiastic members. Please call Ron Burkhart (287-8716). 4045). 
1988-89 SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION GROUP LEADERS 
American Red Cross Brian Dinaro 272-3405 G.A.L.A. Carol Stuart Pax Christi Julie Coyle 283-3784 
Bill Fazzalaro 283-2334 Frank Volker Jeff Long 283~2450 Amnesty lntc:mational NO John Farley 283-1562 Habitat for Humanity Kevin Mundy 283-3797 Right to Life Theresa Harrington 283-4832 Anti-Apartheid Network John Paul Checkett Knights of Columbus Michael Feeley SAVE Cathi Dillon 283-4975 
Arnold Air Society Robert Kuehn 283-2774 NAACP Lionel Coleman 283-3658 Shelter for the Homeless Kelly McGoldrick 283-2812 Big Brothers/Sisters Laura Sheffler 287-9644 Joe Watson 283-3804 Diane Ricker 283-4045 Brian Torok 283-4115 ND/SMC Head Start Program Denise Talotta 283-2510 STEP Phil Kraker 283-1062 CILA Pete Morgan 283-1205 Gary Seibel 283-3489 Jay Bottarini Dave Lawlor 283-3268 NISH Wilfred King 283-1788 John Reiser 283-1606 Circle K Greg Rodrigues 283-1152 Chris Ryan 283-1788 Thomas More Society Chris Devron 277-0535 Council for Fun and Learn Jessie Agostino 277-4470 NSHP Tara Durney 237-9533 UCAM Janet Herold 283-4205 283-3619 Women United for Justice & Peace 283-3791 

Former prisoners and ND students form a community at Dismas House in South Bend. 
Peter Smith  283-3233  Elizabeth Blaney  Kristin Komyatte  
Council for the Retarded  Jim Mohan  283-4075  ODN  Tom Keating  288-9303  World Hunger Coalition  Ron Burkhart  287-8716  
Karen Maier  284-5526  Reni Cohen  
Dismas House  Tara Durney  237-9533  
Foodshare  Lisa Mackett  283-4945  



CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING 
SKILLS 

The Center For Basic Learning Skills, located behind St. Paul's Methodist Church at 1007 West Colfax in South Bend. provides illiterate adults with an opportunity to acquire basic learning skills-­reading, writing, spelling. and mathematics. 
The volunteers tutor one day per week (Mon.--Thurs.), on the day of their choice. A van leaves for the Center from the library circle at I: 15 p.m., and from the main circle at I :20 p.m. It returns to campus from the center at 3: 15 p.m. Call Sr. Marita at (259­5427) before 9:00 p.m. 
BIG BROTHI;:RS/BIG SISTERS 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a non-profit social service organization primarily funded by the Notre Dame Student Activities Board, in conjunction with the United Way of St. Joseph County 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters provides a setting in which the student and the child can meet and enjoy themselves. Activities range from cookouts to rollerskating parties, and add some flavor to the personal meeting the student and the child experience on their own. 
The gift of shared time and friendship can last a lifetime, and the price is just a few hours a week. Please share the experience with us. For inforn1ation call Laura Sheffler (287-9644). 
NORTHERN INDIANA STATE 
pages 2-3 

Center ford!Social Concerns 1988-89 
:'i'i+fpr mor~.information, call 239-5293 
· ······ ..,...,.., <·:.~=i=:=::::nt:=::.:-==:.: 

Center programs excite broad interest 
campaign, Notre Dame students will At the Center, the University
SUMMER SERVICE 
get an insider's look at the candidates 
community works for a world wherePROJECTS: people have their basic needs met, a
and their critics. 

The controversial issues of peace, world at peace, a world of justice.TEACHING prosperity and ethics will be our focus. Any vision and all work for a world SURVIVAL SKILLS You'll hear from the politicians, renewed will be enriched hy you. To 
special interests and church officials. begin. stop by the Center for coffee With on-campus preparation, on-site and say hello. "I'm still amazed when I think of experience and on-target reflection, 
the talk I had with a lady who runs a you will never view elections the 
half-way house and program for same.
DEVELOPMENT CENTER APPALACHIAN
mental patients down the street from Earn one Theology credit. ForNorthern Indiana State Development Center is a small residential the shelter. I asked her what she was more information: Mike Affleck, SEMINARfacility for mentally retarded children and adolescents. The teaching her clients, and she answered, Center for Social Concerns, 239-7943.
residents of NISDC go to special education classes in schools 'basic survival skills: how to balance a Another Seminar will be scheduled In the mountains of Kentucky ...
throughout the South Bend Community. Their education docs not 
checkbook, how to dress and eat during the Spring Break. 
stop in the schools, however. as the children also participate in a You Can Change The World 
properly, and we even have a course variety of training. therapy, and recreation at NISDC. 
on how to be a janitor.' There arc so This fall, and again in the spring.
Please consider a volunteer experience at Nbrthcrn Indiana State many things that I took for granted 50 students will serve and live amongDevelopment Center. Our facility is close and convenient for before my SSP." 
the poor of Appalachia. Through hard
WELCOME!

students. Our residents would really enjoy having you come. 
David Hurtubise, SSP '88 
physical labor and person to personFor more information, call Chris Ryan (283-1788). 
Lafayette, LA 

contact, we will celebrate the cultural The Summer Service Projects arc 
richness of the mountain people and eight week sessions of community 
I had the privilege this 
learn from them of the injustice they service set up through Alumni Clubs 
summer of meeting alumni of 
endure. Our hands will join theirs all over the country. Eighty-six Notre 
many CSC programs. They 
offered this advice: 

changing the world by widening the Dame students took part this summer. 
circle of hope and understanding. A tuition scholarship is awarded to 
For more information on the-Be sensitive to other time
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR 
each participating student. The 
Appalachian Service Seminar, contact THE ADVANCEMENT OF scholarships arc provided by Notre 
commitments of the students. 
Mike Affleck (239-5293). Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. 
• Emphasize that experiential COLORED PEOPLE Andrews Endowment. Every project 
education is critical for our work The Notre Dame chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. prides itself on is different. Students work in shelters 
as alumni in different responses to being the most inclusive organization on campus. Students from all for the homeless, soup kitchens, 
need: law, business, medicine, 
THE FACUL TV AND 
races and creeds combine their energies and talents to act on issues homes for abused children. spouse 
engineering, counseling, United which affect the minority peoples on campus and in the society at abuse shelters, Head Start programs, 
CENTER
Way, ~c. 

large. For more information on what N.A.A.C.P. is doing, please camps for inner city children, etc., etc. 
ACTIVITIES

-Encourage those who didn't attend Activities Night that there 
call Lionel Coleman (283-3658) or Joe Watson (283-3804). Applications arc available beginning in 
January for SSP '89. 
A variety of faculty-related activities arc available through the ­arc still opportunities. 
Post-Graduate Service 0 p­
It is my hope that you will 
Center. The Friday Forum, a
portunitles: Workshops, seminars 
feel free to drop by the Center and faculty-led talk/discussion series,and other meetings enable seniors to explore challenging opportunities meets four times each semester toconsider the integration of service into 
STUDENT TUTORIAL EDUCATION 
for service and social awareness examine a particular theme. During
their chosen careers and/or the 
with excellent students and staff. 
1988-89 it is "The University and the
PROGRAM advantages of a year or two of Year of Cultural Diversity." A relatedThe Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP) is dedicated to volunteer service, e.g., Peace Corps, 
Don McNeill. C.S.C. 
workshop is being planned for the
helping the residents of the South Bend Juvenile Facility develop Holy Cross Associates. Contact Mary 
Director 
January break. Faculty serve as
socially and educationally. As tutors, our major goal is to motivate Ann Roemer (239-5293). 
speakers and discussion leaders during the residents to complete and improve their schoolwork, and to teach the week-long "Call to Peacemaking"
them better study habits. Each participant tutors on either Monday Senior Reflection Groups: (fall semester) and "Peace with Justice" or Thursday evenings from 7-8 p.m. Transportation to and from the Notre Dame seniors arc invited to join CALL TO PEACE­(spring semester). 
facility if provided. Questions?'! Phil Kraker (283-1 062). about eight to ten of their classmates to form a senior reflection group. MAKING WEEK 
Some faculty serve as pivotal
Approximately 125 Notre Dame and (Fall) 
participants in the Urban PlungeSaint Mary's seniors participate in PEACE WITH follow-up session where small groupssenior reflection groups. They gather of "Plungers" spend an evening at theapproximately once a month in a JUSTICE WEEK
b direct my energies to the homeless 
faculty's home to reflect on and beginfaculty or staff home where they plan (Spring) the analysis of their Urban Plunge
plight is so urgent." 
and prepare a meal followed by These arc just two of the Justice experience. Others host small groupsinformal discussion that focuses on the
Ken Kollman '88 

and Peace Opportunities offered by the of seniors who meet in the faculty'splans and concerns that students have Center during the year. Join us for a home four or five times in the springas they approach graduation. Contact speaker, film, course, or off-campusMary Ann Roemer (239-5293 ). 
seminar. see CENTER, back page
GRADUATE ASSOCIATION FOR 
LATIN AMERICA WASHINGTON 
The Graduate Association for Latin America (GALA) is an 
SEMINAR
interdisciplinary group of graduate students interested in Latin American issues. GALA intends to continue to sponsor events The Election Edition which have potential for attracting broad support from among the 
Just three weeks before the many groups on campus interested in Latin American issues. Direct presidential election, 24 questions to Carol Stuart (2H7-0535). 
undergraduates will collaborate in a 
special edition of the Washington 
see GROUPS, back page Seminar. On the crucial issues of this 
1988-89 COMMUNITY SERVICE COMMISSIONERS 
Alumni  Keenan  Bill Mordan  283-3340  
Boctin  Jcn Freeman  2!!3-3712  Joe Casey  283-3370  
Breen Phillips  Cathy Olsen  283-1296  Knott  Sheila Geary  
Theresa McFadden  Lewis  Debbie Hines  283-4500  
Carroll  Lyons  Susan PaulicJ.ci  283-1669  
Cavanaugh  John Theisen  283-1573  Morrissey  Rob Hogan  283-3500  
Dillon  Mike Newell  283-1586  John Failor  283-3458  
Farley  Tracie O'Connell  283-4041  Pangborn  
Fisher  Mike Knapp  283-1987  Pasquerilla East  Kim Hamlin  283-4420  
Ftanncr  Jim Pillar  283-1057  Pasquerilla West  Maura Hogan  283-1759  
Dan Twomey  283-1()62  Siegfried  Kathy Ryan  283-4821  
CIIW:  John Whelan  283-1747  Sarin  Mark Maslinski  283-2271  
lloly Cross  James Nusrala  283-3223  St. Edward's  James Gorenz  283-4254  
llowan:l  Stefanic Dziedzic  283-2562  Stanford  Lany Hughes  283-2027  
MariaGruvey  283-2562  Walsh  Tanya Kne  283-3851  
Julie Parker  283-2620  


CSC Staff-Pictured above (left to right): Ardis King, Secretary; Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director; Mary Ann Roemer, Coordinator: Senior/Alumni Programs; Kathy Royer, Co?rd!nator: Service and So~ial Action Gro~p.s; Angi Jern~y, 
-
Sccrctary-Rcccpttomst; Kathleen Maas Wetgcrt, Faculty Ltatson/Academtc Coordinator; Michael Affleck, Coordinator: Justice and Peace Programming; Carol Porter, Secretary; Eugene McClory, Associate Director. Not in picture: Sue Cunningham, Coordinator: Urban Plunge and Summer Service Proje~ts. The work of the Center is also facilitated by student managers and student asststants, by resource persons, and volunteers. 
Vl.v. 

Center for Social Concerns paid advertisement The Observer page4 
Groups 
continued from inside insert 
STUDENT ADVOCATE VOLUNTEERS FOR THE ELDERLY 
Student Advocate Volunteers of the Elderly (SAVE) is a service 
organization that helps to meet the needs of the elderly in the South 
Bend area. The primary work of SAVE for the last 10 years has 
been to visit the lonely elderly, although in many cases SAVE 
volunteers have cleaned houses, shoveled snow and done yard work 
and other miscellaneous odd jobs. 
For more information, call Cathi Dillon (283-4875). 
~I 
YOUTH SERVICE BUREAU 
The Youth Service Bureau 70001 Program is designed for high 
school dropouts between 16 and 21 years of age. Services provided 
include GED preparation, pre-employment training, job 
development, and motivational activities. John Reid (ND '70) is 
program director. 
Volunteers serve as individual tutors in math, language, and 
reading. GED classes meet Monday through Wednesday from I to 4 
p. m. Interested individuals may contact Bonnie Strycker at (284­9231). 

LEGAL SERVICES 
The Legal Services Program ot Northern Indiana is a private non-profit corporation providing free legal representation to low income individuals in northern Indiana. Legal Services assists people who cannot afford a private attorney with legal problems in areas such as housing, public benefits, consumer, health and family law. 
Being a volunteer with Legal Services is interesting and challenging work full of learning opportunities. Contact Kevin McGrath (234-8121 ). 
THE OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK 
Overseas Development Network (ODN) is a nationwide student organization working to respond constructively to the problems <;Jf world hunger and poverty. 

Notre Dame/St. Mary's ODN works closely with other social action groups to organize our two main events. Third World Awareness week is a week long educational series featuring lectures, -films, and discussions about issues in the Third World. The Hunger Cleanup involves students from both schools donating a few hours to clean-up projects in South Bend as a fundraising effort to benefit both the local and overseas community. ODN meets regularly at the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, call Tom Keating (288-9303). 
ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is an organization designed to increase awareness on campus about the oppressive government of South Africa and to prompt us to do what we can to establish a just government in that country. Our main goals this year are to encourage the University to divest its holdings in all companies doing business in South Africa, and to combat racism on campus. All are welcome at our weekly vigils at 12: 15 
p.m. on Fridays on the Dome steps where we hear news updates from the region. Contact John Paul Checkett (283-3795) for more information. 
CIRCLE K 

Circle K International is an organization dedicated to service, leadership development and career development. 
Our weekly service activities include visits to Marian Hill Retirement Home, Logan Center, NISH (with St. Mary's), and Ducomb Center for juvenile offenders. Speakers on career development and other pertinent social issues are also available at meetings to educate the members. Circle K International (CKI) wants to involve tomorrow's leaders today. Contact Greg Rodrigues (283­1152) for more information. 
"Can I just go ahead and have a successful career and live comfortably? What's my responsibility when I see so much injustice?" 
FUN AND LEARN 

The Fun and Learn Program is a recreation/socialization program for six to sixteen year-old children who are experiencing difficulties in school. The program seeks to develop self-confidence, self-esteem, and to challenge children physically and mentally through recreational activities. It is not a tutorial program. Volunteers are needed. Interested students contact Jessie Agostino (277-4470). 
Polly Carl '88 

PROJECT HEAD START 
Project Head Start is a comprehensive, interdisciplinary child development program designed to serve pre-school children from families with limited income. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who take part in the program volunteer in a Head Start classroom one morning or afternoon each week. 
If interested, contact Denise Talotta (283-25 10). 

~ AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Amnesty International is a non-partisan worldwide organization advocating human rights and working to free prisoners of conscience, ensure fair trials for political prisoners, and stop torture and executions. Amnesty International's volunteer groups in cities and campuses around the world, write letters to government authorities responsible for abusing human rights; publicize Amnesty's human rights concerns in the communities; and raise funds to support ongoing human rights work. 
If interested in helping with Amnesty's work, contact John Farley at (283-1562). 
COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded is one of the largest and best known volunteer organizations on campus. The CFR, in conjunction with Logan Center, participates in a wide variety of activities for clients at many different levels of ability. 
The most popular of these are the recreation periods on Saturdays and the Friday bowling program. Monthly dances are also held at Logan Center and are announced in The Observer and by campus posters. 

-For more information on these and other programs, please call Jim Mohan (283-3795) or Karen Maier (283-4950). 


MADISON CENTER 

ST. THOMAS MORE SOCIETY 
The St. Thomas More Society consists of a group of 
Madison Center, a comprehensive mental health center 
individuals committed to keeping alive and spreading the 
providing mental health and substance abuse services, 
ideals and moral principles exemplified in the life and 
utilizes volunteers from the community. Volunteer 
death of St. Thomas More. The two primary focuses of 
positions are appropriate for students interested in the ,,
the society are its lectures and community service. For 
mental health field. 
more information contact Chris Devron (277-0535). 
Training is provided for each program. Those interested in applying or receiving further information may contact Jack Roberts (234-0061). 
"Introduction to Peace Studies,"ACADEMIC "Peace Movements in America,

Center 
"Social Concerns in America:
COURSES 
Homelessness."

continued from inside insert Theology Courses (Don McNeill, C.S.C. and Staff): Reading AND MORE ... semester to converse about their and reflection on issues raised by Hispanic Community Con­undergraduate years at Notre Dame service experiences. Courses include: cerns (Staff): Opportunities for and to examine how social concerns "Church and Social Action," contact with programs serving the are and will be integrated into their "Theology and Community Service," Hispanic community in South Bend lives upon graduation. Still others are "Reflection on Service," "Theology and elsewhere. asked to serve as advisors to the and Social Ministry." Latin America Programsvarious service/social action groups Other Justice and Peace 
(Staff): Students study in Mexico for a 
affiliated with the Center. 
Courses (Kathleen Maas Weigert): semester or a year at the Universidad 
For further information, contact 
Study and analysis of contemporary lberoamericana or in the Program in Kathleen Maas Weigert (239-5293). ethical and moral issues in justice: Global Community of Cuernavaca. 
FRO'M THE EDITOR'S DESK 
In presenting this four-page special on the Center for This is a paid advertisement made possible through Social Concerns, we wish to remind the reader that we are the cooperation of: focusing on the student service and social action groups, -The Observer staff who assisted in its production, and social concerns programs and activities connected with -Notre Dame Student Government which partially the Center for Social Concerns defrayed the cost, 
Current information on Center programs and activ­-The student groups which provided a writeup on their ities is available through the CSC Calendar/Newsnotes organizations, distributed to faculty and students, and through the esc -Center Staff who shared material on their programs, Newsletter, mailed primarily to Center alumni. Each of -And you, the reader, whose interest and followup makes these publications appears quarterly. all of this worthwhile. 
Thank you. Eugene J. McClory 
Thursday, September 22, 1988 The Observer .page 13 
--------------------------~~~~------------~------------------------~~­
n.oe..-Notnt Deme office, located on the thlnl floof of Lafoftune Stu­dent eent.r, IICCePhl classified .m.tltdng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., ~Y through Fftdar. n.oe..-s.Jnt M8ry'1l office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, IICCePhl ciMslfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Oeedllne tor next~ ciMslfleds Is 3 p.m. All clasalfleds must
Classifieds be pnlpakl, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cMr.cters per day. 
NOTICES  HEY NO--GROOVY RECTOR NEEDS 2 PURDUE GA's. CALL JUDY AT 239­6515.  NEED GA TlX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272.0058. $$$$$  MARCEL AND RUTHIE ARE COMING TO NO 1111 They need Stanford GA's from YOU Ill PLEASE Ill Call x4228  PERSONALS  SOPHOMORE FORMAL Ia October 7. Get a dllta belora It's too hotel  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  FOR SALE  NEED TWO PURDUE GA'SIIIIIII WILL PAY$$$ CALL HEIDI AT 3860 I NEED PURDUE TIX CALL MIKE 4113  Have TWO Purdue G.A.'s. Would like to trade tor TWO P.U. G.A.'s In better lo­cation In stadium. Please help me out-­perheps willing lo trade ¢ $$$$$$. Call Beth 1264  LIVE MUSIC 10 PM-? NO COVER BOKO MARU AT MCCORMICK'S  TONY RICE, THE TRUE STUDENT BODY IS 100 PERCENT BEHIND YOU. WE HAVE FAITH IN YOUR ARM. THE RUSH IS ON, HATE MIAMI IIIII  
WORDPROCESSING 237-1849  TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE  HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 GA TIX FOR PURDUE FOR PARENTS PAY BIG BUCKS CALL JIM 289-5120  AIR FORCEII3 stu tix for sale. call49151 Need 1 studenl licket lo Perdue andt>r  115 N. MICHIGAN DOWNTOWN  KIRSTEN: IT W}.S A COLD DARK NIGHT ON fHE TV THERE WAS A FIGHT IN THEIR GLASSES THERE WAS  
A TYPICAL CONVERSATION AT HOME: Tom: W-E·N-5-D-A·Y Mike: K­A-R-E-N Tom: W-E-N-S-0-A-Y. ole. Will lhla weekend be !he ulbmale showdown be!Ween lheae WOMAN WHIPPED boys? Wllllhero be ANY HOT WATER left? DATES TO REMEMBER: Kelly's oomln' In ONE WEEKI Dawn-November? \ LOST/FOUND I  DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. Technics double cassette deck-$100 call Chris x3338 FOR SALE: CASIO CZ-101 program­mable, dlg~al SYNTHESIZER -new con­dition, wilh carrying case and Instruc­tions. CALL JOE II 1865 Nikkormat FT3 w-28mm, 50mm, ao­200mm lenses, 211ashes, 2 cases. $550. 282-2577 after Spm  Need 2 or 4 GAs-ANY HOME GAME x2707 Melissa Needed Desperately! Two Stanford GAB Can pey big $$$ Call Jon at 1 598 HAVE 4 PURDUE GA'SII NEED 5 STAN­FORD GA'S --WANT TO TRADE ANOOR BUY PLEASE CALL MARK AT x1041 WANTED: 2 PURDUE STUD OR GA MAUREEN X4112  Standlord game, Call John 288-2062 I NEED 3 PURDUE GA's, JEFF x3276 MI-AM-I still in need of 2 GA's call Jim at 1647 Have stud tlx: 2PU 1 AF 1 PS Crit t688 WANT TO SELL ALL MY TICKETS -STUD AND GA-FACE VALUE JUST WANT TO BREAK EVEN CALL ME ANYTIME BETWEEN THE HOURS OF  Lonely guy looking tor company. Respond here ... PLEASEIII OJ AVOID THE RUSHflll Hate Rice Earfyfll NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX call John at 112045 I NEED GA OR STUD TICKETS FOR  BEER IN THE AIR, A SMELL WE FEARED THE RATIO WAS IN THI'IR FAVOR BUT WAS rT A NITE· WE WOULD SAVOR STATS MARKS JON BOB & JIM THE DRINKING GAME WE COULD NOT WIN WE WERE A LITTLE INTOXICATED SO NOW WE SAY HAPPY BELATEDIII LOVE YAI HOLLY AND JEN D SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 1:  
Helpll I los! a mother o'pear1 and brass 2 Size 3 Karate Uniforms. 1 Set handbracelet somewhere near Cavanaugh on and toot peds. 2n-5234.9-10. Hss groal aemenlal value-$$ reward for roluml call Erin a1 4915 If you GREAT PARTY CARIIII 1970 Chevycan help mell lpela Convertible. Power everywhere:............................................ 454 engine. power windows andLOST: To peraon who picked up cal­aeats.$1 ,700. Call Terry, 287-8865.culator In Genatlca Clan on Tueaclay, Sept. 20, pleaM ratum to Greg Want to go to SAN FRANCISCO 4Winters, 302 Zahm Hall. ThxGiving? Cheep plane ticket tor sale. Erin at 4915.LOST: • Timex -ch, gold colorad lace, Roman nurnenofa, day and date, Moving must sell: TV, stereo, beds,burgandy band. Graat Mnllmentel tables, sola, sewing machine, micro­value. If found PLEASE call Matt at II wave, and much more call John 288­3610. Thanks! 2062, Open Apt. Sat. 924, 8-6pm, 1112 S. 20th St. Apt 505, South Bendloot calc. 125 ollla and gulick lex! book !19 in rm.226 of math building PLANE TICKET FOR SALE ROUND name and number In inside cover of texf TRIP FROM SOUTH BEND TO N.Y.C. DURING THANKSGIVING WEEKENDFOUND: HEWLETIA'ACKARD CALCU· REAL CHEAP! CALL MIKE X3288LATOR IN 107 LIBRARY, THURSDAY 9"15 CHECK WITH OBSERVER 9am· 3pm ..... ~~..~~~~.............),L-._TIC_K_ET_S____,J _ NEED 4 GA'S FOR  WILL TRADE PURDUE STUD TICKET & S$$ FOR MIAMI STUD TICKET CALL GREG 111730 HELP HELP HELP need five STAN­FORD GA'S Tony II 2020 I NEED STANFORD GA's I NEED STANFORD GA's BIG $$$$$$$$'S CALL ED 1753 I need !Wo GA's tor my parents for any of the home games, especially: Purdue Rice Call Sly at II 3122 Trade 1 AIRFORCE FOR 1 PURDUE Call Jake 4010 Need 3 Purdue GA's real bed. Call Pat at 2082 I NEED 3 MIAMI TIX -PLEASEfl CALL X2984 WILL PAY$$ I need 4 Tickets to Purdue, 2GA-2ST, CALL Scott II 1053 EXCHANGE GA'S: 2 PURDUE, 2 AIR  4 A.M. AND 9 A.M. ASK FOR JOE S. PLEASEIIII NEED 2 PENN ST STU­DENT TIX. WILL PAY$$ OR TRADE 2 STANFORD OR PURDUE GA'S FOR THEM! CALL AMY PLEASE! X4953 or 4962. I NEED 2 or 4 GA's lor PURDUEIll have 2 STANFORD GA's to trade. call Karen II t314 NEED AIR FORCE AND MIAMI GAt CALL 3348 FOR $$$$ MEOW MEOW SAID THE LIDDLE PUTTY-TAT. NEED 2 PENN ST. STUD TIX PAT X1535 I Mad 1 Stud. and 2 GA'a for Stanford. C.ll Mike at 4100. I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S $$ CALL SHANE 289-4315 NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S 288-3639 TRADE 1 PENN ST. FOR 1 MIAMI, 2 RICE, OR CASH. MIKE X4103  STANDFORD. PLEASE CALL KATH­LEEN 5176 SMC I NEED AS MANY AS POSSIBLE I i"N'~iio··;;··aii"j;iJfi'ouii··:rix ..Pi:iiAs·E CAL~THLEEN 5178 SMCI GLEMBYINTERNATIONAL IS LOOKING FOR MODELS! 1988 Fall Faahlon Pevlew with Scott Cole of London Both Male and Fernala models needed. ahort~ong hair SEPTEMBER 28TH AND OCTOBER 17TH All Cuta done FREE-the lat•t fa• hlonal If lnt..-..ted call Deb or Marfa 272-7412 PURDUE I PURDUE I PURDUE I I need one GA lor Purdue. Mom loves NO and wants to 888 at least one game here !his year, and Purdue Is the one. Please call 263-2892 ASAP. Thanxl DRUMMERS! BAND SEEKING DRUM­ MICHELLE LAROSE, alias Lal.a, is not yet 21 years old. SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 2: On Wedneadey, September 28, LaLa turns 21 . SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 3: l.ala thinks nobody will remember Its her birthday. Hopefully lheae acary thoughts will make everyone get out and help make La La lolo on her big day. HEY FOLKS! Wish the Big O'a systems god a great dey. He's feeling a little low, ao when you 888 him, aey "HII" ································································ Yo, Herold Angel: I love ya, bebe. Keep up the good work. For alt you do, this thanks tor you. Ciao, The Big Gu11 I NEED ONE PURDUE STUD. CALL PETER AT X1307.  
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255­361w.288-0955  PURDUE CALL X2743  FORCE, 2 RICE OR 2 PENN STATE FOR 2 STANFORD. CALL 2n-0526 AFTER 6 P.M.  WANTED 6 MIAMI GAB No Reasonable Offer Refused Call x4702 and leave a message  MEAl INTERESTED? CALL II 3123 N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White  JOHN, do you know that within the naxf week or so HELENE will have blown !he entire eastern seaboard?  
DO YOUR PARENTS NEED A PLACE TO STAY DURING FOOTBALL WEEKENDS? TRY THE "IRISH BED & BREAKFAST"--LOCATED 2 MILES FROM N.D. FOR INFORMATION RING 272-n36  GOOD MONEY OFFERED FOR 2 GA'S TO ANY NO HOME GAME. CALL GRETCHEN X4805 ················································· NEED 2 GA'a TO PENN STATE. BRIAN 272-0291 I need 4 GA's for Rice. Call Nancy 4434  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.2n-a08 i NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. CALL NED AT 1178 HELP II NEED PURDUE TICKETS STUD. and GA'S. CALL X2019  1 AIR FORCE STUD TICKET FOR SALE $15. II 2055. MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED FOR MOM AND DAD AND THEIR FRIENDS. 6 GA, 4 STUD. WILLING TO TRADE STAN­FORD GA'S. CALL 233-3027.  Tatty $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1336. PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB  To the muscular, cute, senior baritone; thanks lor all you do. We love youIf Your Freshmen Faltoa. NEED 5 RICE TIX TOGETHER OR IN BLOCKS OF 2 AND 3. AT LEAST 3 GA'S, 2 STUD OR GA. HAVE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S TO TRADE.  
FURNISHED ROOMS & HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 1 BEDROOM APT. WITH KITCHEN, 3 BLKS. FROM NO. AVAILABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEKENDS. INCLUDES 2 TIX TO GAME. $350 FOR WEEKEND. CALL 219-272-2720. ............................... BED 'N BREAKFAST PRIVATE ROOM & BATH. MINS. FROM CAMPUS. 219-277-7898. HOUSE FOR RENT OFF ANGELA. CALL 232-3616 WANTED Reotaurant Opportunltlu The Olive Garden Italian Reataurant, with Ito lively oplrlt end unique garden Mttlng, Ia now hiring ALL POSITIONS: . Hooto & Hoot••­. Bortendera . Walter• & WoltraoMI . Caohlero . Dlahwaoheretltlllty . Una cook• . Production & Prep Cooko . au-ra . P11ta Makara PfMII apply 2pm-4pm, dally, at:  Morn and Dada tirsl visit; help me make rt a good one Need4 PURDUE lix call 2226 John DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL ERIN AT 3757. I NEED: 4 Stnlrd GA's 1 Stnlrd or Air Frca stud Call Dave II 1427 •SAMMY NEEDS TICKETS • TWO STANFORD GA & 1 STUDENT (OR 3 GA) PLEASE CALL 288-e207 Need Football Tlckato Four GA'a or ao many ao poaalble for Mloml, Penn St., and Air Force Call 284-5260 or 287-7752 anytime Thonk you oo much need 4 MIAMI GA'scall Bill 16531hankslfl NEED 7 MIAMI TICKETS GA CALL SHARON 2845464 HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIIII I NEED 7 ( YES 7 ) MIAMI GA TIXIIIII CALL x1245 or xt352 HELP! HELP! Ws my dad's 8-day and he wants a black jag I I can't afford that, but I am looking for 2 Purdue GA's and one student licket. Don't let my dad be sad on this big dayllllllll Call Jenny X417t GA & STU Tix needed lpr Purdue game. MOney is no object.452t-Pat  My family lives to BOO Jimmy Johnson and his scums, but can't wbut ST 4 Mia. GA's. S$ 1063 Will trade 4 PURDUE GA's tor 4 PENN ST GA's Scott x1730 HELPII I NEED MIAMI STUDs OR GAB, in a big wayll I ALSO NEED 2 STUDs FOR STANFORD AND 1 STUD FOR PENN STII $$$ CALL MIKE X2749 I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 284-5221 STANDFORD GA'SIII PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STANDFORD GA'S, MY FAMILY REUNION WEEKEND IS COUNTING ON THEM. CALL MIMI AT SMC 52211111 NEED STANDFORD STUD OR GA TIXS. CALL MIMI X4447 I'M DYING ... TO FIND 2 PURDUE GA'S PLEASE CALL 284-5458 NEED TO TRADE .... 1 need to trade 4-6 Stanford GA's for 4-6 Purdue GA's. Please call (213) 301-3128 or (312) 475-1673. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$ FOR 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL MONTE 263-15n NEED 2 PURDUE TIX, ST OR GA: WILL PAY OR TRADE FOR 1 MIAMI ST. -DIANA 4224. Stu. tix tor sale. All remaining home games. Call 287986, 7-10 m. NO Grad need 2 tkts Miami-NO Oct. 15­ STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED 3 STUDS 2 GA'S CALL JIM 1935 I NEED Mlemi St. nx x-2235 I have 2 Miami GAs Call collect al 914­492-1404 wilh offers NEED Purdue tixs, stud or GA Chuck 2449 I need one student ticket lor Stanford, call Cory x3143 Need Miami GA's and Stud's Call Dan 17n. I need 2 AF GA'sl DAWNx2286 I HAVE PERDUE AND STANFORD STU TIX CALL JIM AT 271-8307 2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR SALE.272-6863 I NEED MIAMI STUD AND GA TIX FOR MY BROTHER'S B-DAY PARTY. WILL PAYS$. CALL BERNIE 239-7735. TICKETS NEEDED FOR No­STANFORD. COLLECT: 215-539-8421 . WATERFORD BED & BREAKFAST welcomea NOTRE DAME FANS 1854 Brlckltallanate home on National Historic Reglater . 45 minutes from South Bend 219-533-8044 . ROSES ARE RED. VIOLETS ARE BLUE. I NEED TWO MIAMI G.A.'S. JOE  OctoberBus October Bus Sign Up Sign Up Monday Sept 26 7:00 Sorin Room LaFortune HELPII need a ride to Boston, Mass. lor Fall Break. Will help with expenses and driving time. Call Sarah at 4814. Gonads are tor tree, Tim. It's not my mis­sion but.. It's a solution. RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE "IS ABORTION THE ONLY LIFE ISSUE?: THINKING & VOTING PRO-LIFE" 7:00pm Montgomery Theatra LaFor­tune Thura, Sept 22 Voter registration to follow Heyllll If anyone bought a atudent tlckat for Michigan Purdue, or any other home game that has Sec 29, Row 60, Seat 12 on It, piMM call 283-3348. lt'o very Important! Thanks. THE SALAD BAR SYR IS COMING ................................................................ THE ONLY SYR WITH BARS IS COM­ING THE SALAD BAR SYR  CALL LAUREN X4041 N.A.A.C.P. Meeting at 7:00, 124 Hayes­Healy--Tonight DUKAKIS-BENTSEN t 988 •••••••• There will be NO meeting tonight. Please re­member Gov. Bruce Babbitt is speaking on lhe Fieldhouse Mall tomorrow. Friday from 4-5 pm. HEY SOCCER WOMEN, BYRDS WILL BE BACK! DARLA --Are you kidding?? Filth year seniors are ALWAYS available. You name the place...l'll bring the maoe. MT,DM,BG To the one who is always In my heart and constantly on my mind I just want to aey I LOVE YOU Joanne Reed! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JEFFfl lt'a about tlme.U Hey, Jackie-11 more daysII ATTENTION, ATIENTIONIIIIII IT IS MARK RIDGEWAY APPRECIATION DAY--SO WHEN YOU SEE A COMPUTER--SMILE AND KNOW THAT BECAUSE OF MARK RIDGEWAY COM­PUTERS WILL NEVER TROUBLE YOU. THIS HAS BEEN A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE OBSERVER LUNCH CREW--MARK-WE LOVE YOU I IIIII  
The Olive Garden 6410 Grape Road Mlahawoko An Equal Opportunity Employer THE OLIVE GARDEN The Accent'o On Succeoo CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all poaltlono. Both okllled and unakllled. For Information, Call (815) 292-e900 Ext. H-408.  S$$$ NEED PURDUE GA'S BADLY $$$$ CALL xt649 HELPIIII NEED 2 PURDUE GA'sl CALL GREG x1655 NEED 1 STANFORD STUD. TICKET Call Vln x2052 PLEASE! I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-1 STANFORD TIX x4364  1 8005265361 -Kate or alter 6 pm­2013625748 collect. WILL EXCHANGE MY 4 STANFORD GA'S OR PAY FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL CLAIRE 2n-5989. WILL TRADE STANFORD, RICE OR PENN ST. FOR PURDUE, AIR FORCE OR MIAMI TIX. CALL CHRIS 884-1304, EVENINGS. DUDESII RICH RENTS FROM THE GOLDEN STATE NEED 2 GA'S FOR  Xt728 JOE needs 2 STANFORD GAa very bad­ly. He'll do just about anything to get them. Make him a happy and satisfied man by selling him yours. Call 272-3405 and do your good deed lor the day. i need a purdue ticket 4681 greg FRESHMEN I Have 2 student-aectlon tlx to trade for non-etudent-aectlon tlx. 232-o458.  LADIES, BRACE YOURSELVES THE SALAD BAR SYR IS COMING Hall St. Joaeph In the ohadow of the Grotto. May many seek your help. Man­liest of Men, Patron of Workers, Silent Hero. For the favor of a lifetime ... Need 2 STANFORD Student Tickets call John •2137 I need 4 P.U.G.A's chris t603  HAPPY 18TH DAVE WHAT A HOT CHEST! LOVE, BECKY •JULIE, MARGARITA, AMY BARBARA B OINTMENT • MIKE ON MICROPHONE, PAUL ON PERCUSSIVE THINGS, T.J. ON SITAR AND RICK ON CZAR. TONIGHT AT BRIDGETIES 8-9 THE CONTINUING SAGA OF BAR­BARA B OINTMENT..,_,_, Thlo oummer, Mike took lime on to find hlmMII. Czar waa In the Peeoo  - 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to provide FREE PREGNANCY TESTING AND COUNSELING CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES 234-3111  NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S let Mom & Dad see the Irish I KELLY 288­'5737 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S lor old alumni friend. Your support is greatly appreciat­ THE MIAMI GAMEIII CALL MIKE AT 287-8716 I NEED MIAMI TICKETS PLEASE CALL BILL AT 4254 need 3 Slantord GA's x2054  WANT TO SELL ALL MY TICKETS­STUD AND GA FACE VALUE JUST WANT TO BREAK EVEN CALL ME ANYTIME BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 4 AM AND 9 AM ASK FOR JOE S. 283­1145 ......................................................  Hey -lckall Handyman-"Yap, thla thing Ia aturdy all right." Ho-Dori<­·"Pant, pant, nuaauuyllam extrodl­nary." Fozzy-"Wacke wacke...my roommatea are Different." Love 1,2,3 ... tha Accountant  Corpo ototloned In Detroit. Rick spent the summer at the Batty Ford Clinic and atlll kaepa In touch with Uu Minelli. Paul took lime on to lind Mike and T.J. became the manager of a gourmat ralltaurant, got flrad for drink­Ing on the job and decided to go on  .­ 
WANTED --Part-lime waitresses to work evenings and weekends. Friendly atmo­sphere,descenl pay. If inlerested call 234-1067,ABk for Belly or Greg.  ed, call Mike at x2344. Money is lilll&flo concern! Need 2 GAs for NOMiami game. Will pay big S$$. Call 284-5666.  HELPII Mom & Dad are coming! Need 2 AIR FORCE GA'SII call DIANNE x1992 I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S S$ Call Jay x1910  I NEED ONE STUD TIX FOR THE MIAMI GAMEl PLEASE CALL FRANK 289-5310 FAMILY COMING FROM CALIF. NEED AIR FORCE GA'S NAME YOUR PRICE I CALL 284-51741  NOTRE DAME'S ONLY REAL ROCK-N­ROLLIBLUES BAND: LIVE AT MCCOR­MICK'S CONEY ISLAND; FRIDAY, SEPT 23 (NEXT TO SENOR KELLY'S DOWNTOWN)  But, -·ra together tonight...... BRIDGt:TTES 8-9 IF YOU WERE AT 515 MARIAN LAST SATURDAY NIGHT, DO YOU REMEM­BER ... THE 15 KEGS, DO YOU RE­ 
Part time evening help needed. 19 hrsMeek. $4.00tu. Call 233-9045 5­9pm.  MY BROTHER WILL TRADE BEAUTI­FUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 PURDUE OR  NEED TWO GA'S & 1 STUDENT TIX  NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX. I PROMISED THEM TO SOMEONE. GET ME OUT OF A JAM. CALL DAVE 1418.  PARTY WITH "BILLY THE 10" FRIDAY NITE AT MCCORMICK'S BAR  MEMBER THE 15 COP CARS, DO YOU REMEMBER THE 15 SALIVATING AND EXTREMELY HORNY POLICE DOGS, YET, REPRESSED THE MEMORY OF  
STANFORD GA xt999 NICK  FOR  MIAMI  PARENTS  WILLING  TO  SOPHOMORES  THAT  AWFUL  BAND  THAT  WAS  
I'M GOING TO I.U., BLOOMINGTON AFTER THE PURDUE GAME ON SAT.­ 1 need 2-5 Air Force GA's call Tom  PAY BIG$$$$ CALL STEPH  1319  2 Purdue GAs WANTED! Call4189 with your price!  SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES  PLAYING THERE? RELIVE THE EXPE­RIENCE TONIGHT BRIDGETTES 11-11  
·ANYONE  WANT  TO  RIDE  ALONG  1632  WILL  SELL  MY  TWO  MIAMI  STUD.  BEACON  BOWL  IS  BACK!  This  TONIGHT BRIDGETIES 8-8  
WITH?? I'M COMING BACK SUN. NITE.  TICKETS  TO  HIGHEST BIDDER  ON  Need t Purdue ticket. 272-7690  Thursday--Buses  leave  main  circle  at  
CALL TONY 255-5152  NEED 3 TIX TO STANFORD S$ 2697  !¥.!0 LEAVE OFFER AT 277-7298  -Cindy  8:30 and 9:00. Transportation is FREEl  see  Class,  page 9  - 

Thursday, September 22, 1988
page 14 The Observer 

US boxers taking command in Seoul 
Associated Press at the 1984 Olympics, won his second bout within the distance 
SEOUL -The spirits of U.S. when he stopped Nokuthula Olympic boxers were buoyed Tashabangu of Zimbabwe in considerably Wednesday. the second round. 
"We ain't losing nothing," <Johnson watched the first said heavyweight Ray Mercer round of the Kim fight and said, after watching Arthur Johnson "I feel if I'm at my best, I'm give the U.S. team its third pretty hard to beat." straight victory and fourth of the competition. Elsewhere, South Korean 
Johnson stopped Bish-coaches attacked a referee nubahadur Sing of Nepal in the Thursday after one of their second round of a 112-pound boxers lost a decision to a Bul­bout for his second victory, put­garian in a 119-pound bout at ting the Americans at 4-2 over­the Olympics. all. 
''Everybody's fired up," said Several punches were Johnson after being loudly thrown at referee Keith Walker cheered on by several team­of New Zealand by head coach 
mates. "Everbody is cheering Kim Sung-eun and his assis­for you. You can hear them. It tant, Lee Han-sung, and helps a lot." Walker was hit by at least one 
Johnson's victory set up a blow to the kidneys. second major U.S.-South Korean matchup. Several other Koreans, one of 
The United States won the them dressed in a business suit, first one when Michael Car­also charged into the ring after bajal of Phoenix turned in a big it was announced that Byunthird round for a 3-2 victory on Jong-il had lost a 4-1 decision to the morning card over Oh Alexandar Hristov of Bulgaria.Kwang-soo, the favorite for a The South Korean was gold medal at 106 pounds. penalized two points for but­
The 22-year-old Johnson, of ting. Minneapolis, will meet Kim Kwang-sun of South Korea in A water bottle and a chair the quarterfinals Sunday. were hurled into the ring but 
Kim, who lost to 106-pound no object appeared to be
Romanian gymnast Daniela Slllvas performs a 
gold medalist Paul Gonzalez of thrown from the spectators,
perfect floor exercise Monday night during the 
Los Aungeles in the first round who booed loudly. 
Summer Olympic games In Seoul. Slllvas' perfect 
Latest Olympic debate: Just what deserves a perfect '1 0'? 
Associated Press "It comes when they have even closer to heaven. Seven Hardy Fink of Canada, a judge Karl Marx Stadt or four more something inside," she contin­perfectos went to the Soviets en with 19 years and Olympic ex-years on the waiting list, living 
SEOUL -If one synchronized ued, clutching both hands to route to their team gold Tues­perience dating back to the 1976 with the folks in Leipzig. swimmer drowns, must the her heart. "One feels that. day night -three to the brilliant Montreal Games, "a lot of lOs other? If a gymnast looks back Then you can judge the ele­Dmitri Bilozerchev, two more makes crowds in gymnastics It can mean the front of the for the high bar in the middle ments and anticipate." to Valeri Lyukin -and two Jap­halls behave like people at a Wheaties box -remember Mary of a double-death-defying Faj­Judges anticipated perfec­anese pommeled the horse well stock-car race who go to see Lou Retton's lOs on the final kusz, should he -like Lot's wife tion five times during the final enough in succession for a pair the crashes. two exercises at Los Aungeles to -have to pay a price? of the women's team gymnas­of them, lifting their comrades overtake Romanian Kati Szabo 
Outrageous as those ques­tics competition Wednesday past the Chinese for the bronze "Everybody wants to be for the gold -or a diet made up tions might be, judges are night, after awarding a dozen medal. there when it happens," he largely of what's inside. facing an even tougher one be­lOs to the men just one night Things got so out-of-hand at added. "They feel disappointed cause of the rash of perfection earlier. one point during the men's when it doesn't." More than a few Olympic that has broken out at these Elena Shushunova made the events even the Koreans in the sports employ judges, but most Olympic Games: exactly what Soviet team golden by manag­crowd -usually neutral, but al­Subjectivity may be great for of them also employ a system, makes a 10? ing the feat three times. Sprite ways polite -joined in the beauty contests or the however crude, of checks and 
"For me," said women's Daniela Silivas could get just booing after East German racetrack, but it's a decidedly balances. Boxers lose close gymnastics judge Iuliana two, which is where Romania Aundreas Wecker took the less-than-perfect way to settle decisions, but they also take Dragomirescu of Romania, "it finished. Each now has four, slightest hippity-hop after lan­sporting contests in the matters out of the judges' is when all is perfect and the three behind Nadia Comaneci's ding a triple somersault off the crucible that is the Olympics. hands by hitting an opponent routine is done with -hhow do record, with individual events high bar and had to live with To the competitors, it can so hard that even his close re­you say it -amplitude and still to come. near-perfection: 9.9. mean the difference between lations lose consciousness. elegance. The men have been climbing "To some extent," said an apartment of one's own in Same with taekwondo. 

fP.""" ~ P,..l fP. If!,.,~,,,...,~ T··· , '"'' 
rlY'm! mnus mm; tm 1!::~ , !n! 
,,..~~,.JP.~,_.,,,,..., n,,,~ 
r-rn~~~nr£~ ~~!it£ l't!mtt.• ,.'·',. ~,.,..., ,. ~ ,.~ T·:· 
~ nm= un~!::!'! nts~ . 
,.," ,,,,.,.... '"'" If', "· ~~P.tf'
!!I 1!-'!LM~· ~·!II 
~~ ~~1!1!~

,..,..,,, r,,.,.... ~ttCK 
~ 

-
!!'l:."U'1!\.~· • . . l!'!'! ~ Located In the baeement of Lafortune 
,.,.,tf',....~E vlea and maetercard eccepted I!*'I!"! ~~l5C::! c houre: 12·8 M·F 
Loads of styles, sizes, colors... 
...and great prices 
TO BOOT! 
1500 PAIRS OF NAME BRAND BOOTS TO CHOOSE FROM 
*Acme *Dan Post *Texas *Tony Lama *Dingo *Capezio *Nocona *Imperial 
Infant size 4 thru men's size 14 

Men's Boots From $59.95
, f/1,. ~rP ~rPP fP.rt,.P"flN!! 

!6MJ!l! lQIJ IE ~tdGlL l£L' ! IUn! HOURS: Mon thru Sat. 10-8 Sun. 10 to 5 
"'"fP. T' , ,,rP
""I; .•. lilft.ts!:"'fP.ff''-" , , ,.",.,. 
~· P'l:l:.'lllL lY'r!Mtsn~ 

~ ~-.-J~=--=--==r"-'-~JII 
~:::::_~==========~~
One mile north of U.S. 20 on Fir Road 55345 Fir Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(219) 259-1188 

--------~--------~ 
Thursday, September 22, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Indianapolis Colts running back Eric Dickerson returned to his Indianapolis home after Monday night's 23-171oss to the Cleveland Browns to find 
AP Photo It had been robbed. Dickerson lost, among other things, a gold and diamond ring worth over $2,000. There are no suspects In the robbery. 
3112 

OC Hoobers look to defend IH title 
By JOHN CRONIN Grace A, a team that may cause some problems for the
Sports Writer 

Hoobers, trounced Zahm B, 4-0. 
The defending champions of "We have a lot of talented the 1987 men's interhall soccer young players, who work ex­league, the Off Campus tremely well as a unit," stated Hoobers, will have their hands · Grace captain John Patterson. full this year as they try to hold Mter losing to Morrissey A on to the crown. The 26 teams by the ~core of 5-1, the Holy that compose the league are Cross B team bounced back to randomly divided into four snap a 24-game losing streak divisions. Following the regu-by defeating Zahm B 3-0. Cap­lar season matchups, the top tain Tony Malandra's reorgan­two teams in each division will ization of the offense contrib­square off in the postseason uted to the shutout. tournament to decide who will Perhaps the most competi­be the 1988 champions. tive of all the divisions, the 
The Hoobers have been Western European, features touted as having the highest six top-notch teams, all capa­concentration of talent on the ble of winning the division. roster, but player attendance Zahm A-1, which made it to the continues to be a problem. As semifinals last year, has its en­the early favorite in the South tire startinng lineup returning. American Division, the However, the veterans of Zahm Hoobers defeated Dillon Big A-1 dropped the first game of Red 2-0. the season to Stanford A by the 
"We have to make the score of 2-0. playoffs and in order for us to "We have excellent ball control do that we must win the rest of and good overall skills," stated our games," commented Big Zahm captain Andrew Shimer, Red captain Mike Mihelick. "but we have our work cut out 
for us after losing to Stanford." 
Other action in the Western European division included Alumni's 1-0 victory over St. Ed's in a defensive battle. 
Pangborn Violence was edged out by the Off Campus LaWtMBA 3-2 in a shootout on Sept. 18. 
The Flanner A team leads the North American Division after shutting out both Morrissey B and Sorin. "Goalkeeper Tom Maloney and the rest of the defense have provided a lot of opportunities for the offense to score," com­mented Flanner captain Bart Fox. 
The Fischer Green Wave defeated Sorin 1-0 after Pat Hall scored the lone goal. Stan­

, ... ,~:;:;;;;..,----® 

111e American Express® Card can play astarring role virtually anywhere you shop, from 'fulsa to Thailand. Whether you're buying a1\' or aT-shirt. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about eve~1hing you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. \\11ether you're a freshman. senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-TfiE-CARD and ask for a student application. The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without Its" 
II 
TRAVEL 
RElATED 
• SERVICES 

ford B blanked Cavanaugh 5-0  
on Thursday, Sept. 15.  
In the European Division, the  
much improved team from  
Carroll known as L'Equipe  
Vermin downed Holy Cross A  
1-0. Holy Cross, a team that ad­ 
vanced to the semifinals last  
year, recuperated and pounded  
Dillon BMF 4-0.  
"The loss to Carroll was disap­ 
pointing because last year we  
beat them handily," said Holy  
Cross captain Jeff utz. "We  
have had some key losses in  
some key positions, but I still  
believe that we will do well."  
The Zahm A-2 had a first  
round bye and is a team in def­ 
inite contention for a playoff  
bid.  
Notebook  
continued from page 20  
"Ryan wasn't at fullback in  ...  
the spring; he'd gained  
weight," said Strong.  
''Through track, he dropped his  
weight back down to about 235.  
Coach Holtz made the decision  
before two-a-days to put him back <at fullback).  __..  
"He's a Notre Dame-type  
player, he's unselfish and un­ 
derstands his role on offense,"  
continued Strong. "He's an ex­ 
cellent blocker and is develop­ 
ing his running skills as well.  
He's a dependable person.  
Against Michigan State, when  
we were down 3-0, he made  
some nice blocks on runs Mark  
Green had."  


----~-~---­
page 16 The Observer 
pitching of late. But It's their pitching that made 
headlines last night. Details and the baseball 
roundup are below. 
Baseball roundup 

A's set save record vs. Twins 
Mark McGwlre, here shown charging Nell Allen of the New York Yankees after Allen hit McGwlre with a pitch earlier In the year, and the Oakland A's have been roughing up American League 

Associated Press 
OAKLAND -Dennis Eck­ersley recorded the 61st save of the season Wednesday for the Oakland bullpen, establish­ing a major league record, as the Athletics beat the Min­nesoti Twins, 6-3. 
The old record of 60 saves in a season was held by the Cin­cinnati Reds, who reached that total in 1970 and 1972. 
Bob Welch, 16-8, allowed five hits and he retired 13 consecu­tive batters after giving up a run in the third inning. He left in the eighth after a leadoff single by John Moses. 
Eckersley got the last three outs for his 43rd save. 
The A's, who have clinched the American League West, moved 43 games over .500, with a 98-55 record, for the first time in Oakland history. 
The A's were down 2-0 at one point but scored three runs in the third and three in the fifth off Bert Blyleven, 10-16. 
Ron Hassey broke a 2-2 tie with an RBI single in the third, and Tony Phillips had a two­run triple in the fifth. 
Blue Jays 1 , Red Sox 0 

-
TORONTO-Mike Flanagan and Duane Ward combined on a six-hitter as the Toronto Blue Jays slowed Boston's drive clinching the American League 
East by beating the Red Sox 1-0 W ednesday night. 
Boston, which began the day five games ahead of the Mil­waukee arewers, has lost out eight out of 10 against Toronto this season and must play the Blue Jays three more times, Sept. 26-28 at Fenway Park. 
Tigers 3, Indians 2 

DETROIT -Darrell Evans' two-out double in the eighth drove in Matt Nokes with the go-ahead run as the Detroit Tigers beat the Cleveland Indi­ans 3-2 Wednesday night. 
The Tigers trail the first­phia Phillies 4-3 Wednesday place Boston Red Sox, who ear­night, moving the Mets to the lier lost to Toronto, by five in brink to their second National the American League East. League East title in three Each team has 10 games years. remaining. The Mets, who have run to 
the title with seven straight vic­tories, 12 in 13 games and 22 in Mets 4, Phillies 3 their last 27, lowered their magic number to one and clinched at least a tie for first. 
NEW YORK -Darryl Straw­The Pittsburgh Pirates staved berry hit his 36th home run and off elimination by beating the New York beat the Philadel-St. Louis Cardinals 5-0 . 










!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
LSAT I•J !IJFJ 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO ENROi,..L IN THE KAPLAN LSAT PREP COURSE FOR DEC. 3, PLEASE CALL OR COME BY THE KAPLAN CENTER TO RESERVE YOUR PLACE IN CLASS. 
EVERY EFFORT WILL BE MADE TO ACCOMMODATE ALL NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED SO PLEASE SIGN UP EARLY. 
CLASSES BEGIN OCTOBER 4! 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IINI 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 


Thursday, September 22, 1988 
Ojeda cuts finger, is lost fo-r season 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New York Mets left-bander Bob Ojeda un­derwent successful surgery Wednesday after he nearly severed the upper one-third portion of his left index finger with an electric hedge clipper in a gardening accident at his Long Island home. 
The Mets said Ojeda under­went five hours of microsur­gery at Roosevelt Hospital. The surgery was performed by Dr. James Parkes and Dr. Richard Eaton. 
Eaton said the tip of the finger was reattached includ­ing damaged arteries, tendons and nerves. 
Parkes said that the acci­dent, which occurred at 11: 15 a.m., nearly severed the finger at the joint. 
The cut went through both 
FINALLY! 
A Book That Makes the History of Our Times Intelligible! 
BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR: 
CHURCH, STATE and FREEMASONRY IN AMERICA 
by Paul A. Fisher Former Bureau Chief for The Wanderer and Veteran Journalist of the Catholic Press 
Behind The Lodge Door lifts the veil on the subterranean war waged against Church and State by the Masonic Fraternity for over 200 years -even in­fluencing U.S. Supreme Court decisions. 
An amazing and well docu­mented expose of a mysterious international organization whose impact on history has been so studiously (and curious­ly) ignored by historians. 
Fisher, a graduate of the Uni­

versity of Notre Dame, served pnee: $}895· per copywith OSS in Washington, North 
Africa and Italy during World !Add $2.05 postage & handling) 
War II, and with Army Counter-DISCOUNTS: Intelligence in the U.S. and 2-4 books. 15%; 5 books. 25% Korea. Prior to his journalistic career, which began in 1973, 
he was Legislative Assistant and Press Officer for the late Con­
gressman )ames). Delaney (D., N.Y.). 
"A brilliant expose of the hidden power that Freemasonry has in the past and still is exerting so successfully to de-Christianize America. This is MUST reading . •."(Fr. Vincent Miceli, Ph.D., Christendom College). 
"Fisher knows how to do research and how to weigh facts, and those skills give his work a sense of balance and sobriety that make it as persuasive as it is alarming . ... [He] shows con­clusively that [Justice Hugo L.] Black's Everson opinion is un­historical. unconstitutional, and deliberately concocted out of Masonic dogma...." (Michael Schwartz, ThE: Wanderer). 
READER REACTION: 
''In the last 35 years I've read quite extensively about Masonry. Your Book is the best.'' ]VB, California 
''A wonderful book. I hope you sell a million.'' PEH, Florida 
''Your book needs to be gotten out to as many Catholics as possible and to other Christian Americans willing to listen.'' EL, Florida 
"I think that the Catholic Church should be grateful for your research.'' BLH, Indiana 
----------ORDER FORM --------­
SHIELD PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Box 90181 Washington, D.C. 20090 
Send copy(ies) of BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR 
(at $18.95, plus $2.05 for postage and handling to: 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip ____ 
Amount enclosed: $______ 
the bottom and top arteries and bottom and top tendons of the finger and shattered the joint. Eaton took out the damaged parts of the joint and then fused the remaining portion, con­nected the remaining blood vessels and nerves and stabilized the finger. 
"Microsurgery in the hand is very effective," Parkes said. "The nerve is back, the artery is back and the finger is stabilized." 
Parkes said the clippers slipped and Ojeda could not control them. 
Parkes said it would take fuur to six months for Ojeda to recover. 
"It is a blow," Mets general manager Frank Cashen said. "We planned to use him in one playoff game and a World Se­ries game if we got there." 
Thursday, September 22, 1988 
The Observer page 17 


SPORTS BRIEFS Bad NBC ratings worry CBS 
Stepan Court time requests now are being taken to reserve a court for your hallrt>rganization. Please pick up an application in the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFor­tune. The deadline for applying is Sept. 30. -The Observer 
The SMC Co-Ed Flag Football tournament needs referees. There is a mandatory meeting on today at 4 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility for prospective referees. For more information, call 284-5290. -The Observer 
Stepan Courts will be reserved from 4:15 to 6:15 
p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons run­ning through Wednesday, Sept. 28. The 5-10 and Under Basketball tourney will be held during these times and have priorities on the courts. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will conduct practice at 4 p.m. on Friday at the Joyce ACC in preparation for Saturday's match against Purdue. Plasyers will meet at 9:30a.m. on Saturday before the Purdue match. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 


Bible Study 
-No, we don't do athletics. uvarait;y" is just an old word ror uuniveraity". -What we do is: Meet each Thursday to discuss the Dible. -This ia an interdenominational group. 
.. While the group a• a whole is Christian, non­Christiana and undecided who want to know more about the Dible are very welcome. 
-In the past, we've had students f\-om both SMC and ND aa well as graduate etudents. 

We meet Thursdays, 7pm, in 317 Lewis. Just come 
and see! Or, if you have any questions, call Jim (283 
Hl21) or Andreas (287 4855). 
-I 

air products & chemicals 
' 

arthur andersen & co. 
Associated Press  A rating point equals 886,000  dropped since they began using  
households.  the new viewer measurement  
SEOUL  -In  the  cutthroat  NBC's early ratings  are. 21  system last year.  
world of television, where the  percent lower than the network  -lag time. Because of the 14­ 
gold goes to the winner of the  projected,  even  though  ABC  hour difference, nighttime in  
ratings  race,  one  network's  and CBS  are  showing  reruns  New York is daytime the fol­ 
misfortune is usually another  and movies because of produc­ lowing day in Seoul. Although 
network's gain.  tion delays caused by' the writ­ NBC  emphasizes  that  all  
So why is CBS worried about  ers' strike.  prime-time  coverage  is  live,  
NBC's disappointing ratings at  ABC, which has televised 10  some  viewers  may  be  con­ 
the Summer Olympics?  Olympics, would not comment  fused.  
Because low ratings in Seoul  on NBC's ratings.  -late start. The Los Angeles  
will make it harder to sell ads  Before the Games started,  Olympics began  in late July  
for future Olympics, and CBS  NBC  projected  an  average  when there was no competition  
just spent $243 million for the  prime-time rating of 21.2. If the  from the NFL or college foot­ 
U.S.  broadcast rights  to  the  ratings fall below that mark,  ball, and the baseball pennant  
1992  Winter  Games  in  Al­ the network would have to give  races hadn't reached their cri­ 
bertville, France.  advertisers  some  of  their  tical stage.  
money back.  -away  games.  Americans  
"I hope NBC's ratings im­ Barring a complete disaster,  were more excited by the 1984  
prove, for their sake and for  though, the network expects to  Olympics because they were in  
our sake," CBS spokesman Mark Carlson said. "We've in­ turn a profit on its $440 million Olympic investment. NBC  the United States.  ...  
vested a lot in '92. The ratings  spent $300 million for broadcast  -slow start. Track and field  
they're getting have implica­ rights and another $140 million  competition doesn't start until  
tions for all of us."  on production and equipment,  Friday,  and  other  glamour  
Ratings for NBC's first four  but covered the costs by selling  sports like boxing and basket­ 
prime-time shows were 32 per­ about $550 million worth of ads.  ball are still in the preliminary  
cent lower than ABC's at the  No one knows for sure why  rounds.  
1984  Summer Olympics.  The  the ratings are so much lower  "There really haven't been  
Seoul shows averaged  a 16.3,  than 1984, but there are a lot of  any American heroes yet, ex­ 
compared  with  23.6  for  the  theories:  cept maybe Greg Louganis,"  
comparable telecasts from Los  -people meters. Ratings at  NBC spokesman Kevin Monag­ 
Angeles.  all three major networks have  han said.  
fr;~~  Soccer continued from page 20 forward to even more improve­ 
ment in the weeks ahead."  
FOUR FLAGS FARM !Be.d and !B'LE.ak(a!..t  The team will be working on its defensive and offensive res­tarts for the coming game  
THE KERNERS  against Adrian. The Irish will  
REo Buo TRAIL NoRTH  PHONE  go for their fifth win tomor­ 
BUCHANAN, Ml 49107  616-471-5711  row at 5 p.m. at Moose Krause  
Stadium.  
I'  

amoco oil & co. 
' I,
',,I 

at&t bell laboratories. ;.·'it:·
j'l ,,
,I:

Industry Fair Day
the boeing company brooklyn union gas 
caterpillar, inc central intelligence agency 

wednesday, september 2 7 
77:00 am to 4.·00 pm
delco electronics corp. 
navy naval avionics 
first floor fitzpatrick 
dow corning dow chemical, usa 

ell lilly & co. 

exxon research & eng. co. . 
Great way to obtqin
ford car product dvlmt. 
general mills, inc 
lei americas, inc. 


summer 
ibm 
indiana bell 

& 
proctor & gamble rohm & haas 


permanent 
kurt salmon assootatA~, inc salomn brothers ­

employment 
tellabs vista chemical co. 


-----------------------------------' 

l 
i 
I 
Thursday, September 22, 1988
~~--~--------~----------~----------~J 
Boilers nip Irish 
Special to the Observer Debbie McDonald, a Second Team All-American WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. selection for the Boilers last 
The Notre Dame volleyball year, dominated the Irish by team fell in four tough registering 20 kills. games to the Purdue Boiler­makers last night, 15-13, 11-Lambert tried to shake up 15, 15-11, 15-7. The Irish fell hi's team by inserting Tracy to 4-5 on the year. Shelton into the starting 
All the momentum was lineup. Shelton, a sophomore taken out of the Irish sails who walked on the team last in the first game when, after year and who had never bolting to an early 12-6 lead, played in varsity game Purdue won nine of the next before, rose to the occasion 10 points to win the game. by scoring 10 kills and 15 Notre Dame head coach Art digs.Lambert gave a familiar ex­planation for his squad's Notre Dame was also led loss. by Maureen Shea, who 
"Our problem tonight is tallied 14 kills and 13 digs, one we've had in the past," and Kathy Cunningham who .... said Lambert. "we just 
notched 13 kills and 10 digs . 
aren't able to put people away once we get on top of The Irish next take thethem. We played pretty well, floor at home on Fridaybut we've got to finish teams night against the Rice Owls. 
off."
, ·l'c&A£\i; 
AP Photo 

the American League East. Morgan Is featured ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ below. 
'Other' Joe Morgan lifting Red Sox 
Associated Press times that we don't have a managerial change for the Bos­manager in the clubhouse." ton success. 
TORONTO On a recent Barrett emphasizes that it's "Most of us liketi Mac, but it flight, the Boston Red Sox Morgan's attitude for the club's seemed that in tht first half of joined in singing "Be Happy" relaxed, happy mood. He notes the year the whole topic of con­as a tape deck was played. that Morgan knows the game, versation seemed to be, 'Is Mac That, many players say, is the can be tough, has "great going to go.' key to the team's midseason hunches and makes the "Then the decision was made turnaround and drive for the moves." and Joe's attitude took over. He American League East cham­Morgan, 57, grew up in the said he was going to play every­pionship. Boston area, playing baseball one and that made for a hap­
And Joe Morgan, with just and hockey in high school and pier clubhouse with everybody over two months as a major college. And, with a $190,000 contributing." 
Dwight Evans and Ellis Burks have good reason to celebrate as Red Sox head coach Joe Morgan have their team smiling and running away with 

league manager, is credited for contract for next year, he's the new atmosphere. "just having" fun in the AL 
In his 37th year in baseball, east race. most of it in the minors, Mor­gan is having fun and so are "I thought we were a lot bet­the hitters and pitchers. ter than a 43-42 club when I took 
"Everybody loves him," over and maybe I've instilled second baseman Marty Barrett a little more confidence in said. "His laid back attitude is them," Morgan said. "A 
something else." manager can do only so much, 

Promoted from third base co­though. It's up to the playersach when John McNamara was to get the job done." dismissed on July 14 after the The Red Sox went 19-1 in All-Star Game, Morgan's en­their first 20 games under Mor­th~siasm became contagious. gan. And, heading into Wednes­
"Joe hasn't changed a bit ex­day night's game with the cept that now he's a little more Toronto Blue Jays, they had an open in his enthusiasm,'' Bar­87-65 season record, good for a rett said. "The way he goes five-game lead in the East. about things it almost seems at Barrett credits the 
... 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTR~ DAME & 55 t fibs = , : ~ 
ONLY $4.00 WITH NO OR SMC STUDENT OR EMPLOYEE 10. 


MIRIAM MAKEBA 
AND 

HUGH MASEKELA 
Tickets Available at• Joyce ACC Box Office 
• LaFortune Box Office 239-7442 

·~ 

·.. /. 
• O'Laughlin Aud:. 284-4626 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

f:AMPUS .. 
6:30 
p.m. Saint Mary's College Counseling and Career Development Presentation "Employment Opportuni­ties with First Chicago," by Robert Chrismer, assistant vice president, Haggar Parlor, Haggar College Center. 

6:30 
p.m. Saint Mary's Department of Religious Studies Film "Yasujiro Ozu, Tokyo Story," Carroll Auditorium, Maleveda Hall. 


7 p.m. & 9:15p.m. Graduate Student Union film series "Roots," Library Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. ND Women's Soccer vs. Wheaton College, Moose Krause Stadium. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­tion for all MCC, MIS, CAPP, and E&CE seniors inter­ested in discovering career opportunities with the Lante Corporation, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
8 p.m. Coffee Hour in the International Student Organi­zation Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Sloppy Joes Tarragon Chicken Beef Stir Fry Italian Lasagna Fried Chicken Cherry Crepes Vegetable Marinara Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Thursday, September 22, 1988 
The Observer page 19 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

I Recorded, in a way 6 Site of Port-au-Prince 11 Delay, old style 12 Past month 14 Man from Oman, e.g. 15 Delicious drinks 17 Hornswoggled 18 Bsh. orpk. 20 Navajo's home 21 Utah's-National Park 22 Eyelid inflammations 24 Rama's wife 
25 Superlative suffix 26 Scottish royal family: 
1371-1714 28 January 1 
drink 29 Loses hope 31 Swimming 
mammals 33 Famed 
octogenarian 34 Malay boat 35 Tex. river 38 They get Jots 
of suits 42 "To-is human ...": Pope 43 Makes beloved 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


45 A nephew of Abraham 46 Low-skilled worker 48 Sights on a 
jalopy 49 Commanded 50 Christie and 
Karenina 52 Posed 53 Eton boy's 
mom 54 Milk sugar 56 Slow 
disintegration 58 Eagle or lark 59 Relative 
magnitudes 60 Viewpoint 61 Luster 
DOWN 
I Sites of small 

-
tempests 2 Vice President 

Barkley 3 Indemnified 4 Airport abbr. 13 Skilled 27 Porticoes 40 Western 5 Render speaker 30 Greek letter jamborees 
alcohol unfit 41 Ship's rear
14 Dressed 32 Dress leather 
for drinking timber 44 Abandon 
34 Large serving 
6 TV detective roughly dishes 47 Province of 
South Africa7 October­16 Hidden 35 Flower part 49 MemorableS Constant hindrances 36 Punta-, bandleaderdesire 19 An orangutan Chilean port 51 Marsh bird 

9 Schipaand 22 Salary 37 Wild ones at 53 SpeckGobbi of opera 23 Squirrels and 40 Down 55 Cambodian 10 Picture in the magpies 38 "Last Supper" coin mind 26 Rhone picture 57 Stadium 11 Injury tributary 39 High spirits sound 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Andy Kinney 

w/1Af pv tov ~A y 
~(!.OIIT flrJ/7H!tJ & r)Ufl.. 
t;ll,rA&i 1-(Rfvf PA1'tR§ AT 111~ f'.1n? 11 
7HOiitP 1 A((.£ AF>o<IT UMM '-f 11~11f!-5? 
\~/ a~u;;~N~A5,
({$;:f~ IT f/Mi rl L /Bf.Af-Y? 

v/, /­
'lfBitJ-·."1 v~: -~ i 
"r~ __c • ~ 
{ \ r : 

CHECK OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEK: 
BRUCE BABBift 
THURS: James Bond's Moonraker FRI: Woody Allen's Zelig SAT: Repo Man
Fri, Sept. 23 
ALL TIMES: 8 pm & 10:15 pm
4-5 PM 
ADMISSION $2
Stepan Center 

CUSHING AUDITORIUM
Fieldhouse Mall FREE ADMISSION 
Rain: Wash. Hall 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 




Sports 
Thursday, September 22, 1988 
Women's soccer beats Wheaton,1-0 
By COLLEEN "it's only a matter of time HENNESSEY before we score." 
Sports Writer "Everything just sort of The Notre Dame women's 
came together," said Sisolak of soccer team raised its record the goal. 
to 4-2 last night with a 1-0 win over Wheaton College. As is True enough, with 14:56 left reflected in the score, it was a in the second half, junior Joy physical and evenly matched Sisolak took a perfect ball from game, with both teams falling Mimi Suba and beat the short of their scoring potential. Wheaton keeper with a classic
-The first half saw no scoring header to score the only goal action, but both teams mounted of the game. It was her second strong offensive attacks. Nei­goal of the season. ther side, however, could com­plete the threat and put the ball Grace praised the tenacious in the net. The half ended at play of the women, stressing 0-0. that the defense did well in 
"They did everything they holding off the Wheaton attack, could," said Irish head coach in particular mentioning Dennis Grace. "The most im­several key players. portant thing is to generate op­portunities, and we are doing "Sue McConville had an out­very well in that respect." standing game in midfield," he 
The Irish took the field after said. "Our two wingbacks halftime determined and ready played well, too. Debbie Ho as to win. They started the second an attacking wingback is just · half with a solid offensive effort getting better and better in that produced everything but a every game. The whole team score. Grace was not dis­has come so far in the past pleased with the effort, three weeks, and I'm looking however.
Debbie Ho, cousin of Irish football placekicker 

"When we put that much
Reggie Ho, dribbles the ball downfleld last night see SOCCER, page 17
pressure on a team," he said,
against Wheaton at Moose Krause Stadium. The 
The Observer I Eric Bailey 

Notre Dame women prevailed, 4-2. Details can be found at right. 
Men's tennis team hopes to gain respect at Navy tourney 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
The climb to the top of the collegiate tennis world is a long and difficult ascent, yet Irish head coach Bob Bayliss believes that the best place to start is against top teams. This weekend, the Notre Dame men's tennis team will receive a crash course in nationally ranked talent at the Navy Na­tional All-Conference Tourna­ment in Annapolis, Md. 
"There are nationally ranked teams in Annapolis and this will give us a chance to play some top competition," said Bayliss. 
Top competition is just what Notre Dame will get when they set foot on the courts of the Naval Academy. Also converg­ing on this site will be Kansas, Arkansas, West Virginia and Texas A&M. All of these schools are ranked in the Top 25 in the country with the nazorbacks possessing the highest ranking at 10. Round­ing out the tournament combatants are the host team, Navy, Illinois, and the Deacons of Wake Forest. 
The tournament will be con­ducted as an individual compe­tition, grouping all the number one seeds toghether and put­ting them against one another. This grouping will be done from the number one seed to the number eight seed. The doubles competition will be conducted in the same manner. 

Bayliss, who coached Navy from 1969-1984, is convinced that this tournament is a step in the right direction for the men's program. 
"This tournament will show that we can play at this level and will make Notre Dame more attractive to recruits," said Bayliss. 
However, looking at the pres­ent situation, Bayliss thinks that this trip will help develop the team on an individual basis as well as a whole. 
"Personally, I hope everyone plays as well as they can," said Bayliss. 
On the team, Bayliss com­
mented that "it always benefits 
your team when you test your 
metal against the top teams." 
As a result of the influx of 
new talent, the men's team has 
undergone some reshuffling of 
the lineup. As of the present, 
Dave DiLucia, a freshman 
from Norristown, Pa., holds 
the number one position as a 
result of being the victor in a 
challenge match against Brian 
Kalbas. Kalbas, a senior and 
the number one player last 
year, assumed the number two 
spot. 

-DiLucia recently played doubles at the United States Open tennis tournament at Flushing Meadows, New York. 
His experience in national com­petition is sure to aid the Irish bid for national recognition. He and Kalbas should duel throughout the season for the top spot. 
Walter Dolhare, a junior transfer from Austin Peay, grabbed the third seed. Dol­hare is suffering from a sprained ankle and will not be 100 percent, but will play. Junior Mike Wallace, the second seed last year, holds the fourth seed. Sophomore Ryan Wenger, the third seed last year, plays in the fifth spot. Dave Reiter, Paul"Odland, and Mike Brown earned the sixth, seventh and eighth seeds, respectively. 

Irish offense features new faces in new places 
Almost overshadowed in the second-half success of the running game last Saturday against Michigan State was the presence of some new faces both on the line and in the backfield. 
Sophomore Tim Ryan, who had been the second­string center, started ahead of Winston Sandri at guard. In the backfield, following the first-series injuries to fullbacks Braxston Banks and Anthony Johnson, second-team tailback Tony Brooks gained 66 yards on 11 carries after replacing the tandem. 
With Banks out four to six weeks and Johnson doubtful for Satutday's game at home against Purdue, Brooks is listed to start at fullback. Ryan also is expected to continue his new guard assign­ment in a starting role. 
"Tim Ryan was moved to offensive guard last Monday (before the Michigan State game)," said Head Coach Lou Holtz. "We did not expect him to start in all honesty... we planned on playing him part of the time. He played well for his opening start." 
Offensive guard is Ryan's third position since ar­riving at Notre Dame last season. The sophomore from Kansas City, Mo., saw limited action at inside linebacker last season, then was listed as a center during the spring and fall practices. 
Senior Ted FitzGerald switched sides from de­fensive line to offensive line, where he was expected to replace Ryan as sophomore Mike Heldt's back-up center. But FitzGerald suffered a knee injury during Tuesday's practice, which leaves freshman Gene McGuire of Panama City, Fla., as the second­team center for the time being. 

"Gene is adjusting and learning constantly," said offensive line coach Tony Yelovich. "It's unique for 
Steve Megargee 
Football Notebook 
a freshman to have the opportunity as quickly as he has, but he keeps improving. Every day he gets better." 
Brooks figures to see double-duty in the backfield, keeping his old job as second-team tailback behind senior Mark Green while also starting as fullback. Brooks did play fullback in last year's Michigan State game following injuries to the regulars. 
"He's learning a new position in a week, and remembering his old one," said running backs co­ach Jim Stron . "He's learnin two game plans, from the tailback spot and the fullback spot. We don't like to do it, but Tony has good football aware­ness. "We've really zeroed him in on fullback this week. We're trying to get him as many reps there as possible. The execution and assignments are to­tally different (at tailback and fullback)," contin­ued Strong. "Johnson and Brooks have taken about 1,000 snaps on each particular play since I've been here, so they can be polished in that situation. We're trying to knock the rust off a guy and polish off the rough edges." 
Brooks also is still suffering from a partially frac­tured foot, which has the Tulsa, Okla., resident wearing an orthopedic shoe. 
"We had his foot X-rayed, and there was no change on it," said Holtz in his Tuesday press con­ference. "I would like to think he'd be able to go the rest of the year that way. To have played on astroturf (at Michigan State) and have practiced without having it digress, we're encouraged, though something could happen on any play." 
Sophomore Ryan Mihalko and freshman Rodney Culver also figure to see action in the backfield. Mihalko, also a javelin thrower on the Irish track team, moved to fullback in the fall after working 
on the defense in the spring. 
see NOTEBOOK, page-15 





