
No mittens
IACCENT: Sandi Patti shows her stuff 
Mostly sunny Wednesday. 
High around 50. Clear and 
very cool Wednesday night. 
Low in the lower 30s.

IVIEWPOINT: The Lost Election of 1988 


Vice President George Bush addresses a crowd endorsed Indiana Republicans John Mutz for gover­Tuesday afternoon in Stepan Center. The Republican nor and Rep. John Hiler for Congress. presidential nominee spoke on his campaign and 
Partial text of the Vice President's speech at Notre Dame Nov. 1 
Editor's note: Reproduced He has sincere beliefs; I have will. Why the difference? I below are excerpts from the sincere beliefs. But those 
think I see more clearly that prepared text of Vice Presi­beliefs are totally different, dif­the economic engine runs bet­dent's speech. ferent in theif assumptions and ter with lower taxes. I see the different in their implications. father and mother at the dinner The campaign is in its final And it seems to me, after six table counting up the bills and week and we're close to deci­minths of a hard fought cam­realizing again that ''the power 
sion day. So this is a good time paign, that what it all comes to tax is the power to destroy."to let the smoke lift from the down to is this: One of us I know it's a tough call for battlefield and talk about what represents the American some, but I believe that the 
the fight is really all about. mainstreat-tand one of us does death penalty is a fair and just 
There have been a lot of not. One of us holds main­punishment for crimes of ex­charges and countercharges stream views and stands for traordinary cruelty and vio­the past few weeks, been some mainstream values -and one of lence, particularly involving
painting in broad strokes -and us does not. And the death of police officers. My
that's not all bad. In fact, it was "mainstream" isn't just the opponent does not. inevitable. We are fighting for middle -it's the big full-hearted I would like for our children something big here -the future center, it's the traditions and to have the right to say a vo­
of a great nation. And some of the faith and the beliefs that luntary prayer or observe a the differences between my op­have guided this country for 200 moment of silence in the 
ponent and me are so deep and years. schools. My opponent dis­wide they demand broad agrees . strokes. On taxes, crime and ••••• But to get the true size of America's place in the world, I know how to get peace. And what divides us you have to go 
you could probably call the dis­I know how to keep it. I know back in time. tance between us "the great that strength and clarity lead I came to power with Ronald divide." to peace, that weakness and Reagan only eight years ago,
It's not a divide that has to ambivalence lead to war. My but it was another world. The do with different degrees of opponent's view? Far as I can economy had been sinking, and 
conviction. At the last debate I make out he views American so were our hopes that we'd was asked all of a sudden to strength with anxiety and continue as a force in the world. 
name some of the things about America's role with am­For me, the symbol of the era Governor Dukakis that I like, bivalence. was the helicopters sinking in and I said with conviction that I am wary of taxes; I do not the sand of Desert One. I recall I think he is a sincere man with like them; I will not raise them. this with no pleasure: those a wonderful family. My opponent is not, does, and were painful times. 

Bush highlights 'great divide' of the campaign 
By REGIS COCCIA received wild applause, cheers 
Senior Staff Reporter and standing ovations. Bush's 
promises to work for peace and 

Stepan Center hosted a pep the poor were accompanied by rally on a national level Tues­chants of "four more years"day when Vice President and loud applause. George Bush made a special But some gave the vice pres­visit to Notre Dame one week ident a colder reception, inter­before the presidential elec­rupting the speech with shouts tion. of "lies, lies" and "this is not 
Bush's speech, sponsored by a rally, this is not ND." the Law School's White Center About a dozen students on Law and Government, sum­shouted angrily out at Bush, marized "his campaign as a who turned to address them, "great divide" between his saying their outbursts happenvalues and beliefs and those of all the time and calling them Democratic presidential "fringe liberals." nominee Michael Dukakis A large group of students 
before more than 2,000 seated stood outside Stepan, protest­inside the cramped facility. ing the controversial ticket dis­Noting the football team's tribution for the event. About 
recent number one ranking, 900 tickets were given to Notre Bush said, "Thanks to Repub­Dame students, but most of lican leadership in the White those were taken by registered House and Lou Holtz's leader­Republicans who were notified ship here, both Notre Dame of a distribution time earlier and America can say, 'We're than the one posted by the Stu­number one!"' dent Activities Office. 
The trip to Notre Dame was "I see that Tom Erhardt and the vice president's third visit Tom Schlapp (sic) have done a in the last three years. Bush good job here and I'm gratefulattended the Notre Dame-Penn to them," Bush said of the ap­State football game in 1986 and plause, citing leaders of Stu­the closing ceremonies of the dents for BushQuayle who Special Olympics in 1987. 
During the speech, Bush see BUSH, page 9 

The ObeeMir I Jim Brake 

Junior Jeff Sepeta interrupts Vice President Bush's speech yesterday, with shouts of "lies, lies..." much to the dismay of most of the highly partisan audience. 
But we rolled up our sleeves economy. They said we'd cause and sent out a message: "The massive unemployment. But slide stops now -the comeback now, as you know, unemploy­beings today." ment is at a historic low. They 
We lowered taxes, forced said we'd cause massive infla­down inflation, cut the rate of tion. Now it's a third of what it government spending and cut was. regulation. The result: the greatest, most expansive Our job now is to see that the peacetime economic boom in economy isn't tied to the old American history. business cycle but breaks free, 
Do you know what our oppo­so the boom isn't followed by
nents said about what we were doing? They said we'd ruin the see TEXT, page 9 

page 2 
IN BRIEF 
The Washington Post on Wednesday said it would endorse neither George Bush nor Michael Dukakis for president, calling this year's race a "terrible campaign, a national disappointment." In a long editorial entitled "No Endorsement," the newspaper's editors said "we would have liked" to support Dukakis but were especially alarrfled at his deficiencies in foreign affairs and defense. The editorial said Bush made himself too beholden to the far right of the party and he is "really the major source and cause of the tawdriness of this campaign." 

OF INTEREST 
The Italian Club will be showing the movie, "A Joke of Destiny" today at 8 p.m. in the Pasquerilla West party room. 
-The Observer 
Tom Ward Live on WVFI today from 8:45 to 9:15 
p.m. Students are welcome to call with questions at 239­6400. 
-The Observer 
A Variety Show featuring acts by various dorm teams will be presented today at 7 p.m. in Theodore's as part of the week-long Quest for the Crown. Admission is free. 
-The Observer 
300 Rice Student Tickets Needed to allow mentally handicapped adults from the LaPorte County Sheltered Workshop and Logan Center to attend the Nov. 5 game. Students can drop off donated tickets in the dining halls or at the Center for Social Concerns until Sat. Nov. 5. 
-The Observer 
Any Sophomore interested in being Sophomore Committee Chairperson for Junior Parent's Weekend can pick up an application in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor LaFortune. Due Monday, Nov. 7th by 5 p.m. 
-The Observer 
Volunteers for the Homeless members interested in the Special Services program must attend the organi­zational meeting today at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. If you have questions or problems contact Tom Sutliff X1729. 
-The Observer 
The Democratic Socialists of America will hold 
a second organizational meeting today at 7:30p.m. in 119 
O'Shaughnessy. 
-The Observer 

California Table Grape Boycott committee will hold a meeting today at 8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 
The AFROTC Formal Ball will be held this Saturday, 
Nov. 5 at the Elks Club. The Air Force band will provide 
the music. 

-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
Design EditOT ... . Alison CockB Accent Copy Editor ........ Matt Murphy Design Auiatant ............. Beth Peterson Accent Designer... . . . . . ..... Jim Barrett Typesetter~... . . . . . . Mike Kolar Typist .. ............................ Val P.olletto ..................................... Mark Ridgeway .............................................. Sue Barton News Editor... . Matt Gallagher Copy Editor.. . . . Christine Walsh ND Day Editor.. .. Sandy Roth Sports Copy EditOT .............. Pete Gegen SMC Day Editor.. . ... Sarah Demet Viewpoint Copy EditOT. Cindy Broderick Photographer.... . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott McCann Viewpoint Layout... . Kerri Owens Sports Wednesday Editor. Theresa Kelly Accent EditOT . .. . . . ... Robyn Simmons Sport• Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin 
Till o.-n. (USPS 599 2~) il published Monday throuah Friday acept durina cum &Del v.ation pcrioda. Till o..ner is publilhed by the students of the University of Notre Dame &Del Saint Mary's Collqe. Sublcripcions may be purchas­ed for S40 pa yar (U$ pa semester) by writiaa Till o..ner, P .0. Box Q, Noue Dame,IDdiaDa4M56. 
Till~ is a -ber of Till "-daiNI r.-. All reproduction riahts are .---1. 
Wednesday, November 2, 1988
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Endorsements stir debate and complaints
. 
What do we know that you don't know? 
Many people have a hard time understanding newspaper endorsements. No, it's not a reading problem; most newspapers are written for the seventh grade level anyway. Even the New York Times is only a ninth-grade newspaper. 
Endorsements fall under the broader cate­gory of what are called "house eds" by news­paper people. Whenever you see something on the Viewpoint page signed by The Observer, it's a house editorial. 
I guess the problem is why the opinion of a few newspaper people is worth more than yours or any reader's. It's not, really. Publishing house editorials is one of the perks of being a newspaper publisher. Since the Editor-in-Chief and the General Board are sole and actual pub­lishers of The Observer, we have the right to run our opinions as long as they are clearly labeled as our opinions. 
Our opinion is probably worth something. After all, all of us on the Editorial Board (which writes house eds) read the newspaper every day and are reasonably knowledgeable about political and campus affairs. Granted, we are not as cognizant of Representative John Hiler's voting record as some local residents. But, we do not raise an opinion until we have done some research into things like voting records and stands on issues. Sad but true, I think that puts us ahead of a majority of the electorate. 
The Observer is at a bit of a disadvantage on house editorials since ours are written by com­mittee, while many newspapers have one editor writing--and the publisher approving--house editorials. Since everyone on the Editorial Board has a chance to edit the copy before it's pasted in the paper, a house ed often comes off as sounding watered down. 
Of course, this does not excuse us from the blame. Every time a house ed runs everyone even remotely associated with The Observer seems to get lots of opinions thrown at them about how wrong The Observer is. Not that most Observerites have control over the house eds-­even the nine members of the Editorial Board who write them are usually not completely 
Mark Mclaughlin 
News Editor 

satisfied with them. After nine editors change a house ed it usually has become something no one totally agrees with but, something everyone can live with. 
But all the complaints we get on endorse­ments and editorials actually show that they are working. An endorsement is not meant to change the readers' minds. No newspaper does that. 
What an endorsement does is spark debate. It allows all those Ward and Dukakis supporters to go out and convince all their fellow readers that The Observer is a conservative rag and that their candidates are the truth, the way and the light. That's the point, and judging from the irate phone calls and comments I've been receiving, the endorsement has served its pur­pose admirably. 
********* 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper 
Election DayBe a part of it. November 8, 1988 
Carro 11 Aud i tori urn:
•

Nov. 1-3, 9 & 11 : Only $ 1 SMC : cr-A n: 
SPONSORED STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD·. BY LEMANS ~ .l,. .I. I I e 
HALL SAIRT MARY·s COLLEGE • 
Wednesday, November 2, 1988 
The Observer page3 
Urban Plunge draws record applications 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
A record 475 students have registered to participate in the Urban Plunge this January, up from 287 who took part in the program last year. 
The Urban Plunge is de­signed to allow students to "see the poor and meet the social service people dedicated to hel­ping the poor," said Sue Cun­ningham, the Urban Plunge Co­ordinator. 
The program, described by Cunningham as "the best pro­gram going anywhere" is not "designed to try and cause stu­dents to change their major and life plans to serve the poor." 
The Plunge jusf strives "for people to go on in life and re­member the poor. The pro­gram is just supposed to be seeing the poor ,and although it is ideal to do a little hands on experience in a soup kitchen, that may not happen," said Cunningham. 
Most of the students who have participated in the Plunge describe their experience as unforgettable. 
Michelle Soper, a junior who took the plunge last year while in Dallas for the Cotton Bowl, describes the Plunge as, "very eye opening. It helped me to be more aware of the problems of the homeless and the fact that there actually are people who don't have a place to live. I now see the homeless as individual people, not just a stereotyped group." 
Ken Bouley, a junior who also 'took the plunge' last year has nothing but praises for the pro­gram. 
Said Bouley, "I stayed two nights with an inner city family in Roxbury, an area outside of Boston, and I got to experience a totally different lifestyle. It gave me the sense that the people of the inner cities are real people with real problems, most of whom are being forgot­ten by our government." 
The Urban Plunge is taken as a one credit satisfac­tory;tmsatisfactory course within the theology depart­ment. Participating in the plunge, writing a follow up paper and attending a follow up discussion earns a satisfactory grade. 
The Plunge is open to all stu­dents of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Students can register as of­ten as they like, but, "students can't do the Plunge three times expecting to add the credits up to a theology requirement. Each year the Plunge is a dif­ferent course number," said Cunningham. 
Because of the large number of students registered to at­tend, the coordinators are ex­periencing a shortage of sites, but are ''working diligently and hoping very much to be able to place everyone. Four new sites have been added to the already large number of sites all across the country, from Boston to L.A.," said Cunningham. 

Members of the press traveling with Vice President reference to the vice president's like for pork rinds George Bush wearing Halloween pig masks during for snacks which he often shares with the traveling the arrival of the Vice President in St. Louis Monday. press. Some of the press chanted "no more pork rinds" in 
HPC discusses Weekend Wheels~ 24-hour Oak Room 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Staff 
The Hall President's Council held its weekly meeting Tues­day night in Pasquerilla East to discuss information about campus events and to inform students of activities. 
The meeting took off with Fidelma Callery's comments about the success of Weekend Wheels. She suggested that the president's try to gain support for the program by posting fliers and telling students that the program is free of charge. 
In the past, student govern­ment has provided fliers advis­ing students of the operation hours of the atheletic facilities. 
Kerstin White, co-chairperson of the Hall Presi­dent's Council stated that the 24-hour Oak Room will run throughout the semester, but that "more participation is needed if the program is to con­tinue next semester.'' 
Kevin Corazon, President from Carroll Hall, reported that the Carroll Haunted House was a big success. "About 800 people came through the gate and we had to turn about 350 people away," he said. 
Kerstin White then told the Council Len Bias' mother will be speaking in the Monogram Room of the JACC on Wed. Nov. 2 at 7:30p.m. 

Helps students relieve stress. 
The stress ofsolving equations that run a 68881 math co-processor. Its memory from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­the elusive quark. And of analyzing the city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open-strains placed on your average suspension with six NuBusN slots for communications, bridge on awindy day. video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
To all of you who must move moun-All of which is good reason to do one tains ofdata we offer the Macintosh' II com-simple thing the next time an assignment puter. Owning one is comparable to having has you stressed out: Plug one in. a personal workstation or powerful main-.,_ frame sitting on your desk. . 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And The power to be your besC 
© /f)H.C.:,VJfllt• 0»1!f1111t'r. "'': .fJfJ/(•, !llf.• ."fJfJ/t• lr~'" mul ,llt14.intrtd' an· n.'Ki.:~mrllmtlmurrl~i r(. mui'71Jt• /llllll'rlfJ IJe.l"*" /)(~· i.~ a tmdt11ltlrk r!f.f1(1/l' Onnputrr../11(. ,\it/Ius zs rllrrulmlflrk '!f7i:\n,·Jn:~lnmwl*. lnr ..ILV /1(1\ i.\· a n~i:ti/1.-nfllrrNkmarl! r!{.1lit.nN!fl f.hrpomtion 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

Wednesday, November 2, 1988
page 4 The Observer 
Free flu shots offered by University Health Services 
By NATE FITZGERALD 
News staff 
Free flu shots are being of­fered to all Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty through Thursday of this week. 
The shots will be adminis­tered today from 9 a.m. to 9 
p.m. at the Hesburgh Library concourse, and Thurs. in Room 108 of the LaFortune Student Center during the same times. 
Students or faculty who wish to participate need only to fill out and sign a simple release form and present a university identification card to receive the free shot. 
Lollipops are provided as an 
Economy signals slower growth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment said Tuesday that its chief economic forecasting gauge dipped 0.1 percent in September, the third decline in the past five months. 
Private economists said the Commerce Department's In­dex of Leading Indicators was signaling slower growth but probably no recession for next year. 
The 0.1 percent September decline followed drops of 0.7 percent in both May and July. Often, three consecutive monthly declines have been the signal of an impending reces­sion. 
But the latest declines have been interspersed with large monthly gains, including a revised 0.5 percent increase in August and a sizable 1.5 per­cent advance in June, the big­gest gain since late 1986. 
After smoothing out the big month-to-month swings, analysts said the leading index was indicating a slowing of the robust economic growth of the past year. 
"There is absolutely no ques­tion that the economy is slowing down," said Lawrence Chimerine, chief economist of the WEF A group, an economic consulting firm. "The only question is whether this slow­down will lead into a reces­sion." 
Chimerine said he believed a recession can be avoided over the next 12 months to 18 months, although he said this forecast could prove too opti­mistic if consumer spending slows more than expected or if the dollar comes under further sharp pressure from foreigners worried about the ability of the next administration to deal with budget and trade deficits. 
If foreigners suddenly decide they no longer want to buy U.S. debt, that would force U.S. in­terest rates higher and could push the country into a downturn, he said. 
The recovery from the 1981­82 recession completes a peacetime record of six years this month and the Reagan ad­ministration is hoping this per­formance will persuade voters to keep the White House in Re­publican hands. 
While many economists once believed that the new president would face a recession in his first year in office, most are now predicting the downturn will not occur until 1990 at the earliest. 
incentive for those who are wary of needles. 
Carol Seager, director of Uni­versity Health Services, said, "it's not unusual for a lot of people to have the flu, the way people live and study so closely here." 
Seager recommends that everyone who can take the shot should, adding that taking the shot "keeps the students active and in class." However, not everyone should get the shots. Anyone who is in the first trimester of pregnancy, has an upper respiratory infection, or is allergic to eggs should not receive the shot, said Seager. 
University Health Services 
The overall economy, as measured by the gross national product, is expected to expand at a robust 3.8 percent annual rate for all of 1988, the fastest pace since the last presidential election in 1984. 
However, David Wyss, an economist with Data Re­sources Inc., predicted that growth next year would dip to around 2.3 percent. He said that forecast was in line with the signals from the leading index. 
Many analysts believe that a boom in U.S. exports, which has accounted for fullv half of the growth this year, and busi­ness investment spending, an­other key sector, will both level off in 1989. 
In a second report Tuesday, the Commerce Department said construction spending rose 0.6 percent in September to an annual rate of $403.4 bil­lion as strength in housing and government construction offset a decline in office building. 
Construction spending for the first nine months of the year is just 0.7 percent higher than a year ago, a sluggish per­formance which analysts ex­pect will continue because of widespread overbuilding of of-began this service last fall, hoping to curtail the spread of the flu on campus last winter, by administering 2700 shots. This year they have adminis­tered approximately 8!\0 shots so far, according to Seager. 
Seager said, "We're trying to be more active in reducing the number of students having the flu." According to Seager, the shot would cost about $15 lit a doctor's office. 
For those who cannot make it to either location this week, free shots will still be available for free at the Student Health Center as long as supplies last. 
fices and other commercial space. 
Top policy-makers at the Federal Reserve met behind closed doors Tuesday to map monetary strategy for the next two months. Analysts said they expected no dramatic moves to boost interest rates, primarily because the signs of economic slowdown had eased fears that inflation was getting out of con­trol. 
If You See 

Chicago's Sears Tower, the world's tallest building and corporate headquarters for Sears, Roebuck and Co., is up for sale, Sears Chairman Edward Brennan announced Monday in Chicago. 
ALUMNI REUNION 
CONCERT 

Featuring the 200-vuice Alumni Chorus • 
~----­
Friday, Nuvcmhet· 4 • 8:30pm Joyce Athletic ami Convocation Center Admission $3.00 • Group rates a1·uiluhlc 
Tit·kl'ls .., . .,;l.,hlc illlloc J. A.C.C. llux Ollit•t• :mol :tl tlot• l.al·i,rttlllt' St~Kit·ut Ct•ult'r """ 2:1'J •nso ur2:1'J·S'J57 \'isa illltl ~l:t•lctCml AtT<'plcd 

..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
This Could Be 
YOU 
~ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

,...,~YJYV\N~INI......,...........YJ......'riY'~INI......,...... ,......YJYV"tN ...... II'VI......,.......,,.,...~Y'rlvv'riY.....,......,....... 
Wednesday, November 2, 1988 
The Observer 

Every Student Deserves 


a e 5 

Bush leads polls with one week left 
Associated Press his schedule to cancel a trip to 
South Bend-the same city Bush 

George Bush campaigned was visiting. like a president-to-be Tuesday, Democratic vice presidential saying he hoped for a meeting candidate Lloyd Bentsen with Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­climbed into the cockpit of an bachev soon after moving into F-16 fighter for the benefit of the Oval Office, while Demo­television cameras as he crat Michael Dukakis said renewed his campaign to per­"Made in America" was the suade Texans that Dukakis only label he cared about as he would be strong on defense. bid for union support. President Reagan was on the 
road on behalf of Bush and
********* 
other Republicans, ripping into Dukakis for describing himself 

ELECTION '88 
as a liberal in the mold of 
Roosevelt and Truman. 

The polls one week before Dukakis is no "Harry Election Day showed Bush a Truman and he's no FDR," the solid leader, and the contrast outgoing president said -and in campaign styles between the then depicted this year's front-runner and the underdog Democatic candidate as a man couldn't have been plainer. pursuing the "Carter-Mondale 
The vice president struck an liberal agenda." above-the-fray pose in a speech Bush said "much progress at the University of Notre has been made" in superpower Dame, saying he wanted to relations during the Reagan
meet Gorbachev for a "serious years and added it was impor­and direct examination" of su­tant for him and Gorbachev to perpower relations. "size each other up" correctly. · The GOP presidential He said he would ask his sec­
1 
j 
nominee also pledged to ap­retary of state to "make it Ipoint "moderate persons of clear that I am prepared to conservative views" to the Su­meet with General Secretarypreme Court. Gorbachev at the earliest time 
Dukakis was in the political that would serve the interests trenches, blending his appeal of world peace." for blue collar support with an "My purpose in such a attack on alleged Republican meeting would not be to influence peddling; achieve any grand
"As president, I'm not going breakthrough, but to engage in to stand up for the sharp a serious and direct examina­operators, I'm going to stand tion of where we are and how up for the lathe operators and we can best go forward toward machine operators," he said. further arms reductions, a 
The Dukakis campaign also decrease in regional tensions 
unveiled a new one-minute ad and further adherence to centering on the theme "The human rights and thus toward Rich Get Richer'' and claiming a surer peace," he said. Dukakis' tax proposals would The vice president was be fairer to the middle class. heckled periodically by about 
Dukakis' aides said their two dozen people, but he told private polls pointed to a race the rest of his audience of 2,000 that was narrowing. Privately, that he had come to expect it some Democrats expressed as a part of life on the cam­doubts, while ABC said its sur­paign trail. vey of California showed Bush In a sidelight to the cam­a leader by seven points in the paign, a top Bush fund-raiser nation's biggest state. denounced as "rotten" a report 
A CBS news poll released implying that he was trying to Tuesday showed Bush holding use his position to land a public a 12-point lead over Dukakis, relations contract for his firm 53-41 percent. The survey of with the government of Haiti. 1,065 probable voters was con­Fred Bush, who is not related ducted Saturday through Mon­to the vice president, said he day and had a margin of error had told his partner Michael of plus or minus three Govan to "forget it" when it percentage points. came to Haiti, but his partner
Dan Quayle, Bush's running had ignored the admonition mate, expressed irritation with and had written the nation's GOP campaign managers new president using Bush's after they abruptly switched name. 
CARTER,  DUKAK$,  
FORO  CARTER  MOHOALE  BUSH  
($21.$ miaion eaCh) ($29.4 million each) ($40.4 m~fion eacll)  ($46.1 minion each)  
Figures do not include federal funds authorized for  patty oonventtons  
and total matching funds.  

•Rep. JOhr1 Anderson received .$4;2 iniftkm. in federal campaign funds. 
Source: Federal Election Commission 
API Trine Giawer 

()'r. 
',\.I \'VI I 
~\·0 . 
Recoton XR90 AudioTape 
Recoton brings you over 15 hours of top 
quality recording power in its convenient 
90-minute cassette 10-Pack. A great 

"gift-pack" for any music lover. Limit 3. 
MaxeiiUR90 AudioTape 
With FREE UDS-11 90 Tape! 
The perfect tape for all your recording needs. Stock up now while the savings are hot. Buy the 10-Pack and get a FREE Maxell UDS·II 90


Wednesday, November 2, 1988
The Observer 

He ps stu ntsre ·eve stress. 
© 19HH Apple CompuJI!r.lnc. Apple. the Apple /Of{o and Macinlr~o;IJ an.' rep,islered /r(l(/emarks rf. and ·n:Je potrr!T' lobeyour h~{ is a trtldemark ofApple CompuJI!r. Inc. ,\li/lus is atmd£'11/llrk rfli!..WL'i flt.,1romenlo;. Inc. .IL\'.[)0\' i1· a n.1{i.'ilen.'d trademark ofMicmsqjl Corporation 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
The stress of solving equations that run from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking the elusive quark. And of analyzing the strains placed on your average suspension bridge on a windy day. 
To all of you who must move moun­tains ofdata we offer the Macintosh11) II com· puter. Owning one is comparable to having a personal workstation or powerful main­frame sitting on your desk. 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And a 68881 math co-processor. Its memory expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open-with six NuBus!M slots for communications, video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
All of which is good reason to do one simple thing the next time an assignment has you stressed out: Plug one in. 

ll) 
The power to be your best~ 

The Observer 

Four engineering faculty named to endowed chairs 
Special to The Observer 
Four Notre Dame faculty in the College of Engineering have been appointed to newly endowed chairs by University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
The faculty are William Gray, professor of civil engin­eering; Ruey-wen Liu, profes­sor of electrical engineering; Thomas Mueller, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering and Arvind Varma, professor of chemical engineering. 
"These appointments are a tribute to the strength of our faculty in the College of Engin­eering. These four professors have made outstanding contri­butions to the body of knowl­edge in each of their fields,"
O'Meara said. 
"They also have demon­strated leadership within the engineering faculty and excep­tional dedication as teachers. I am honored to announce their appointments," he said. 
According to Anthony Mic­bel, McCloskey dean of the Col­lege of Engineering, these four appointments have increased the number of endowed chairs to a total of nine within the col­lege, or 10 percent of the entire college faculty. "The diversity of fields covered by these scholars attests to the uniform high quality of our engineering faculty," he added. 
Gray, a specialist in water resources, will hold the Mas­sman Chair in Civil Engineer­ing. A native of San Francisco, he received his bachelor's degree in chemical engineer­ing from the University of Cal­ifornia at Davis. He holds both master's and doctoral degrees in chemical engineering from Princeton University, where 
0 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii0 
The Educated Choice for Faculty andFuzz,Time Staff... 
... 1ST SOURCE BANK'S EASY BANKING CLUB! 
1st Source Bank has the best and most unique direct deposit payroll program available. With our Easy Banking Club you get: 
IMMEDIATE VALUE 
• Free interest bearing checking account (with 200 free checks) or a Free savings account. 
EVERYDAY VALUE 

• 
Free Resource Card for easy available access to your money. 

• 
The safety and convenience of direct deposit of your paycheck. 


FUTURE VALUE 

• 
'12% discount on consumer loans. 

• 
Free appraisals on approved mortgages or home equity lines. 

• 
Free first trade at our 1st Class Brokerage Services ($35 maximum). 

• 
50% discount for the first year on safe deposit boxes. 

• 
Free Travelers checks. 


For more information call any 1st Source Banking Center. 
~source
-.aank 
Member F.D.I.C. Your partners from the first 
for nine years he was a mem­ber of the faculty in the Depar­tment of Civil Engineering un­til he came to Notre Dame in 1984. 
A past president of the Inter­national Society for Computa­tional Methods in Engineering, he now sits on the Society's per­manent organizing committee. He is editor of the journal Ad­vances of Water Resources. He is also the chairman of the De­partment of Civil Engineering. 
Liu, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1960, has been named Frank M. Freimann professor of electri­cal and computer engineering. He is a native of China and a United States citizen who holds bachelor's, master's and doc­toral degrees in electrical 
engineering from the Univer­sity of Illinois. 
Liu is a specialist in circuits and systems, and his research centers on the theory of non­linear circuits and systems, au­tomatic control theory and high-speed data transmission. He has written more than 100 journal articles, conference papers and invited lectures on these and related subjects. 
Mueller, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1965, has been named Roth-Gibson professor of aerospace engine­ering. A native of Chicago, he received his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the Illinois Institute of Technology and his doctorate from the Univei'sity of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana. 
In recent years Mueller's re­search has centered on the aerodynamics of sophisticated small and low-speed aircraft -­specifically low Reynolds num­ber aerodynamics--with appli­cations in remotely piloted 
vehicles, sailplanes, ultralight 
manned aircraft and man-
powered aircraft. A better un­
derstanding of how air flows 
around the wings of aircraft at 
low speeds will help engineers 
improve the design and en­
hance the performance of this 
type of aircraft. 
A prolific scholar, Mueller 
has written one book on low 
Reynolds number 
aerodynamics and chapters in 
another five, in addition to 
more than 130 journal articles, 
symposium papers and 
reports. He also has presented 
more than 90 invited lectures 
and seminars in the United 
States, Western Europe, Japan 
and Taiwan. He is a fellow of 
the American Society of Me­
chanica! Engineers and has 
served with the College of 
Engineering as director of 
engineering research and 
graduate studies. He is cur­
rently chairman of the Depar­
tment of Aerospace and Me­
chanica! Engineering. 
Varma, a native of India and a U.S. Citizen, has been named Arthur J. Schmitt professor of chemical engineering. He com­pleted his undergraduate work at Panjab University and holds a master's degree from the University of New Brunswick and a doctorate from the Uni­versity of Minnesota, where he remained for a year as an as­sistant professor. He was a senior research engineering with the Union Carbide Corp. for two years before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1975. 
His research interests are in chemical and catalytic reac­tion engineering, kinetics and catalysis and mathematical modeling. He has published more than 90 research papers in these areas and has co-edited 
a e 7 
u.
*
L' 
/. ' 
AP Photo

Imelda faces arraignment 
Despite near-freezing weather, former Philippine first lady Imelda Marcos is coatless and dressed in an evening gown as she arrives in New York Federal Court Monday for arraignment on embezzlement and racketeer­
ing charges. two books. He also has pre­sented more than 50 research papers at various professional society meetings and has delivered more than 40 invited research seminars at univer­sities and industrial research laboratories. 
Varma served the college of engineering as chairman of the chemical engineering depart­ment from 1982 until this fall. He is a fellow of the American Institute of Chemists and is a recipient of an Into-American Fellowship and a Fulbright Scholar Award. 
The Massman Chair in Civil Engineering memoralizes a 1928 alumnus of the College of Engineering who died in 1970. Henry Massman Jr. was presi­dent of the Massman Construe­tion Company, a Kansas City, Mo., firm founded in 1916 by his father. His three sons are also 
graduates of Notre Dame,
Henry Massman III in 1953, John Massman in 1956 and the late Robert Massman in 1958. 
The Frank M. Freimann Chair memorializes a pioneer in the electronics industry. President of the Magnavox Co. for 18 years prior to his death in 1968, Mr. Freimann served for many years on the advisory council for science and engine­ering. In 1962 he received an honorary doctor of engineering dep-ee from Notre Dame. Five 
The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism presents 
"CATHOLICISM AND THE 
CONTROL OF CULTURE IN BOSTON, 1900-1920" 
by Professor Paula Kane of Texas A & M University 
Thursday, November 3, 1988, 4:15 Library Lounge 
endowed chairs at the Univer­sity bear his name, four in the College of Engineering, and one in the College of Science. 
The Roth-Gibson Chair in Engineering was established by William and Patricia Gibson Roth in honor of their parents, Euclair and Kathryn Roth and Loren and Ruth Gibson. Mr. Roth, a 1960 Notre Dame alumnus, is chairman, presi­dent and chief executive of Dravo Corp., a construction and engineering company based in Pittsburgh. He also serves the University as a member of the advisory coun­cil for the College of Enginee­ring. The Roths have two sons, the youngest is a sophomore at Notre Dame. 
The Arthur J. Schmitt Chair in Engineering memorializes an engineer, inventor and edu­cational philanthropist who, at­hough he never completed high school, held 13 patents and con­tributed significantly to the growth of the electronics indus­try. At the age of 30, he estab­lished a firm in Chicago that became an international ven­ture, the American Phenolic Corp. This corporation helped to revolutionize the telecom­munications industry, specifi­cally in the area of electrical connectors and coaxial cables. Mr. Schmitt died in 1971 at the age of 77. 


Wednesday, November 2, 1988

pageS The Observer 

AP Photo 
An orthodox Jew casts his vote in Tel Aviv yesterday (See related story below.) 
morning during the General election in IsraeL 
Israeli elections go down to the wire, Likud leads 
Associated Press scenes Wednesday, with Labor tions ended in ·deadlock, with 
leaders wooing the Shas party, Labor winning 44 and Likud 41 
JERUSALEM-The right­projected to be the largest re­seats.. wing Likud bloc and left­ligious party with six seats. The 65-year-old Peres, grim­leaning Labor Party dueled With 95 percent of the 4,800 faced, said at Labor head to head in Tuesday's par­polling stations reporting, Is­headquarters his party was liamentary elections with the rael army radio said Likud was still in contention. small religious parties holding projected to get 39 seats and "The results of the election the balance of power. Labor 38 in the 120-seat Knes­are not yet final," he said. 
Likud leader Yitzhak Shamir set, or parliament. He urged his followers, 
appeared to have the edge in Likud and small right-wing "Let's not lose faith, and let's forming a ruling coalition and parties together would have 46 consider the options for form­said he was convinced he could seats. Labor and small leftist ing a government in the next stay on as prime minister with parties would have 56. 24 hours." the help of the religious parties. That would mean that Labor Peres noted that for Likud to 
But Foreign Minister Shimon and its allies would not have win, it would have to join with Peres said his Labor Party still enough votes to block forma­the Moledet, or Homeland had a chance of luring religious tion of a coalition between party. The party headed by parties into a Labor-led coali­Likud and the religious parties, former Gen. Rehavam Zeevi tion. which appear more ideologi­advocates transferring the 1.5 
The election was widely cally attuned to Likud and are million Palestinians from the viewed as a crossroads in de­forecast to get 18 seats. occupied lands to Arab termining the future of the oc­Israel television's exit polls countries. cupied territories and shaping predicted Likud would have an Israel's policy for dealing with edge in forming a governing Labor officials noted that its hostile Arab neighbors. A coalition. Rabbi Yitzhak Peretz of the 
Palestinian insurrection has A smiling Shamir told sup­Shas, a party oriented to Sep­
gone on for 11 months in the porters at campaign hardic Jews of Middle East occupied West Bank and Gaza headquarters he believed origin, left the door open to a Strip, claiming the lives of Likud could get together a possible alliance with Labor. more than 300 Palestinians and majority of 61 seats. The 73-year-old Shamir 10 Israelis. "Based on the facts we have conceded that forming a gov­
Labor advocated an interna­before us, it seems that the sit­ernment "would not be easy"tional conference to talk peace uation commands and enables and negotiations might last for with the Arabs and proposed the Likud to form Israel's next days.sacrificing some of the occu­government," Shamir said in a In an obvious bid to woo re­pied land for a negotiated nationally televised speech. ligious parties, Shamir said settlement. Likud opposed In a later TV interview, Likud had never opposed a keyboth. Shamir opposed the idea of a Orthodox demand to limit reli­
Intense negotiations were ex­national unity government like gious conversions to those ap­pected to take place behind the the one formed after 1984 elec-proved by Orthodox rabbis. 
Doyle, Paese boycott Bush's speech 
By MATT GALLAGHER tion wasn't fair for the typi­securing tickets. Senior Staff Reporter cal Notre Dame student," "We felt it wasn't fair for Doyle said. us to attend when the 
Student Body President average Notre Dame or Tom Doyle and Vice Presi­Doyle referred to prob­Saint Mary's student didn't dent Mike Paese did not at­lems surrounding the distri­have the same chance," tend yesterday's lecture by bution of tickets on Monday. Doyle said. Vice President George Bush Student Activities circulated as a result of the controversy flyers noting the time of dis­Doyle said he was gladsurrounding the distribution tribution as noon, but actual that Bush chose to visit of tickets for the event. ticket distribution began at Notre Dame. "It was good 
8 a.m., allowing certain stu­for the University. It shows "When it came down to it, dents with privileged infor­that the political excitement we felt that the whole situa-mation an advantage in is there," Doyle said. 
Carnival of Careers to be held tomorrow at SMC 
Special to The Observer pursuing careers in the 
educational systems. 

Students from both St. The FBI and IRS are two of Mary's and Notre Dame will the represented Government have an opportunity to gain in­Offices. formation on future career, A brochure will be made volunteer, and internship pos­available to students listing the sibilities at the fifth annual individual organizations, the Carnival of Careers tomorrow. types of positions offered, and 
The carnival will take place the cities within which they at St. Mary's College in the An­hold offices. gela Athletic Facility, from 3-6 The majority of the organi­
p.m. zations are from Chicago and 
The event features represen­its surrounding suburbs: Mic­tatives from several different higan, Ohio, and Indiana. Many organizations offering post­of the firms represent large na­graduation opportunitites, in­tional corporations. ternships, and summer jobs. Carnival of Careers is spon­
Eastman Kodak, IBM, and sored by St. Mary's student First National Bank of Chicago government, senior, junior, are just a few of the and sophomore boards; and the represented businesses avail­Career and Counseling Devel­able to offer career and job in­opment Center. It provides an 
formation. Over thirty hospi­opportunity for networking and tals and Medical Centers will general information gathering. 

Wednesday, November 2, 1988 The Observer page 9 
volatile change, not ill thought­longer move or grow. It would and push for a return of solid tween desired and necessary. 
out change, not change for a be ironic if we did this to our­values, including respect and It demands an ability to take
Text 
continued from page 1 
bust but is more like rolling thunder. 
In foreign affairs we built up our defenses, walked unbowed to the bargaining table and asked the Soviets to join us. When they refused we contin­ued to rebuild, knowing that if overtures wouldn't work, strength would. 
It did. They came to the table, and the talks that fol­lowed produced the first agree­ment to ban a whole generation of nuclear weapons. 
Eight years ago we took on the status quo and challenged the defeatism that others called deep thinking. Some­times they called us radical, and in truth we did seem dif­ferent. But what we led wasn't a revolution but a return -a return to common sense, basic truths, and timeless values. 
Has it all been triumph? No. But it's triumph compared to what we had. 
That's why I believe Ronald Reagan was right when he talked about the American desire for change. He said, We ARE the change. 
I believe in change -no slogan or a pose. I believe in change that is improvement, change that means let's to­gether try to make the world better. 
Let me tell you about the changes I wish to make. I'll start with what I won't do, and then tell you what I will. 
I won't raise your taxes, and for three good reasons: you're not undertaxed -a tax hike would slow the economy -and if we raise more revenues, the Congress will just treat it as more money to spend. 
I won't accept big new spend­ing. I may have a difference with the Congress on this. I will try to work with them. But if the people vote for me on No­vember 8th to keep taxes and spending down, and Congress doesn't listen to the will of the people, then I'll have to use the veto. 
I won't allow what seems to be the desire of the liberals in Congress to "Europeanize" the American economy. By that I mean tying it up with so many rules, regulations, mandates and tax forms that it grows muscle-bound and can no 
Do you want to prepare for an international career? 
Do you want to get practical experience with an internship abroad? 
Do you want to become fluent in a foreign language? 
Visit the University of South Carolina table at the MBA Forum in Chicago, at the Palmer House, 17 East Monroe Street ·November 4 • 5, 1988 
Or write: MIBS Program-Dept. KM, College of Business Administration, University of South Carolina, COlumbia, SC 29208 I Phone: (803) 777-2730 

selves just as our European 
allies are freeing themselves ­
by emulating us! 

I won't let anyone balance 
the budget by gutting defense. 
I'll have to make tough calls on 
setting priorities in defense 
spending. I am pledged to those 
money-saving Pentagon 
reforms. But I will not tear 
down the build-up that was the 
parent of our current peace! 
I mean to keep us strong while keeping my ol' busines­sman's eye on the bottom line. I respect bottom lines -1 just known they're not the only line on the ledger. 
Those are the things I won't 
do. But leadership is more 
"will" than "won't " and I 
want you to know ex~ctly what 
I will do. 

I will be an activist president. 
I want this job because I want 
to do things. 

I will continue to build a strong defense. I will pursue more progress with the Soviet Union. 
I will work with Congress to reach agreement on a flexible budget freeze to get spending under control. 
I will move, here at home, to halt the pollution of our envi­ronment and do more to clean up our lakes and rivers and oceans and air. 
I will appoint a strong cabinet -a vigorous new lead­ership to build on our progress -to bring new approaches and new ideas. 
I will work with governors, Congress and educators to set high standards for our schools, to reward success and increase educational opportunityespecially for the poor. 
I will continue to speak for 

The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce 
THE RILEY PRIZE 
IN 

ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
This competition is open to any Notre Dame undergraduate or graduate student. The prize carries with it a $300 award The rules governing the competition may be obtained in 132 O'Shaughnessy. The deadline for submissions is April 15, 1989. 

non-violence. the long view, and to take short 
term heat to win long term

••••• gain. There are other questions It is the place of cutting mo­before us. I have spoken of a ments -the moments that cut kinder, gentler nation, and I through the expected and the plan to speak about it for the everyday and force us, through next eight years. action, to define ourselves. I don't know what the cutting And I start from this prem­moments will be for the next ise: In America these days President. there is prosperity -sand that's But I know they'll come. good, even if it does sometimes And I know I'm prepared -at upset the fringe liberals. But, least as prepared as you can when it comes to wealth, some be. of them are like the stern old I am no mystic, and my lead­Calvinist who was up all night ership will not be the most worrying that someone some­charismatic. But I'm not sure where was out having a good we need a lot of razzle dazzle. time. There's probably enough Wealth isn't bad in and of it­drama in the world already. self -but it's not an end in and But I'll try to be fair; I'll try of itself either. It just a begin­to be wise; and I'll listen. ning. And so you know my hopes The percentage of our people and aspirations; you know who are poor has gone down what I intend to do. significantly during the eco­And now the day of decision nomic expansion of the last six nears; and now you must years. But because our popula­choose your side in the great 
tion is growing, the absolute divide. 
number has grown. And what I ask for your support; I need 
about them? your help. I need your vote. 
Every vote counts. And I want 

We can't go back to the old you to send out the word to 
ways of trying to buy our way everyone you know, to every­
out of the problem. We tried one who cares about you. Tell 
that for decades, for genera­them we need their help, your
tions and it didn't work. I'm not parents and your brothers and 
going to become president just your sisters and your friends 
to indulge some more failures. and the teachers and the nurses 
But I'm not going to turn and the lawyers and the bus 
away _from this problem just drivers -everyone, now, tell 
because so far it's been unsolv­them: We need you help.
able. And now you can tell you 
children and grandchildren 
that on a cool crisp day in the 

The Oval Office required an month of November in 1988 you 
unflashy good judgment, a reli­helped a future president -and 
able calm; it requires that you he will never forget it. 
know the difference between Thank you. And God bless 
important and crucial, be-you all. 
misunderstaoding of men and
Bush 

women. "Does my opponent continued from page 1 respect old-fashioned common 
sense? I think he's guided more were responsible for getting by abstract theories and grids Republican students tickets. and graphs and computer prin­The second student's name is touts and the history of Swedish Matt Schlapp. social planning," Bush said. 
"It seems to me, after six "I suspect he's guided more months of a hard fought cam­by ideas about the way men paign, that what it come down and women should be than the to is this: one of us represents way they are," he said. the American mainstream -"Let me more specific about and one of us does not," Bush the great divide. I know how to said. get peace and I know how to 
"One of us holds mainstream keep it," the vice president views and stands for main­said, vowing to work with the stream values --and one if us Soviet Union to promote world does not. And mainstream isn't peace. _ just the middle ... it's the "I will be an activist presi­traditions and the faith and dent. I want this job because I beliefs that have guided this want to do things. I will con­country for 200 years," he said. tinue to build a strong defense. 
Bush drew laughs and ap­I will pursue more progress plause when he described with the Soviet Union. Dukakis as inflexible and "I will work with Congress to 
reach agreement on a flexible 

Thursday Nove1nber 3 

Engineerin~ Aud. 
8:00 and fO:OO $2.00 
Holy Grail 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4 

budget freeze to get spending under control. I will move, here and at home, to halt the pollu­tion of our environment and do more to clean up our lakes and 

SATURDAY, 
NOVEMBER 5 
rivers and oceans and air. "I will appoint a strong
THE 
cabinet, a vigorous new lead­


ership to build on our progress, to bring new approaches and new ideas," Bush said. 
"I will work with governors, Congress and educators to set high standards for our schools, to reward success and increase educational opportunity, espe­cially for the poor." he said. 
"I don't know what the cut­
ting moments will be for the next president," Bush said. "But I know they'll come. And I know I'm prepared." 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

Viewpoint
eeye1o Wednesday, November 2, 1988 
Debate format in need of reform 

Like most Americans, I found the visors must modify their proposals to three televised "debates" profoundly fit the package of television. Other disturbing if not boring. The questions aspects of campigns are also affected were silly, the answers were adversely by television. The financial programmed, and the media's post­burden of television commercials in­debate psycho-babble was inane. Con­creases their strategic importance. sider this: Bush was asked if his father Television, like other media, can be would be proud of him; Dukakis was extremely beneficial to political given a chance to explain why the debate, but also severely limiting. Tele­American people don't like him; both vision specializes in symbolic imagery. Bentsen and Quayle were asked to give Thus when JFK wanted to assure allies us a catalogue of their favorite expres­of U.S. support and warn the Soviets of sions of pop culture. Their correspond­our commitment to democracy, he ing responses were, for the most part, delivered a televised speech in front of entirely predictable. the Berlin Wall. But television's sym­
bolic imagery can have the effect ofChris Devron trivializing complex issues. 
What does George Bush standing un­
against apathy derneath the largest American flag ever sewn really say about his (or his opponent's) patriotism? What does 
In responding to other questions, the Bush standing in Boston harbor tell us candidates blinded us with a thousand of his environmental policy? What are points of light, dazzled us into confusion we to make of Dukakis the tank com-by citing bills without reference to their mander? Of course television and content, and generally hypnotized us American politics are not newlyweds. with facts and figures that directly con-Ever since the day that an unshaven tradicted their opponents' own refer-and sweaty Richard Nixon debated a ences to statistics. Lincoln and Douglas suave and young-looking Jack Ken-were rolling in their graves--and not nedy, television has had a powerful im­from laughter. pact on politics. 
The other prominent television Ronald Reagan represents the pin-events of modern campaigns are the nacle of television's influence. He'll al­national conventions. These were ways be known as the Great Com-equally absurd. The pundits told us that municator, but I wonder how great a both men delivered the best speeches communicator he really is. Sure, if you of their respective political careers. restrict communication to the medium Granted, neither man shines for his of television, Reagan wins an Emmy. oratorical skills, but I have a very fuzzy He is the master of the thirty-second memory of both speeches which were sound bite. During the '84 campaign delivered just a few short months ago. while Mondale was trying to capitalize The only thing that comes to my mind on the perception by the working class are visions of a rusty snow blower and people that Reagan was insensitive to something about a George Bush wish their needs, Jim Baker planned a clever list--you remember: "I want to be the media event. One night RR quietly and education president," "I want a gentler unexpectedly slipped into a pub in an 
and kinder America," etc ... If neither ethnic, working class neighborhood just candidate had a great tradition of outside Boston. Within seconds, net-oratory to draw upon, their lapses works arrived. The sound-bite of RR ---------------downing a few brews with the boys and sharing a couple of back-slapping ... today, television toasts helped bring negatives down al­
most instantly.

threatens the life of the 
But put Reagan at the podium andpolitical process itself. expect him to deliver an unscripted, in­telligent piece of oration, and you're ---------------surenot to get a barn burner. Reagan's might be forgivable. In fact both inherit speeches are memorable for their one­an election process that was shaped and liners that get aired on the evening molded by the oratory of Woodrow Wil­news, not for their wit or insight. The son and Bobby Kennedy. only two examples we have of Reagan It is no coincidence that the decline delivering anything close to brilliant of debates and convention corresponds speeches--Barry Goldwater's nominat­chronologically with the rise of televi­ing speech and his address to students sion. Television can be a wonderful at Moscow U (sorry, Notre Dame)--are medium and has, in many ways, con­more notable for their symbolic in­tributed to political dialogue and dis­fluences than for their oratorical course. The information explosion, flourishes. Perhaps we ought to rename spurred on by the increase in televi­Reagan the Great Actor--how ironic! In sion's influence, means that more any event, Americans are beginning to 
Americans have the chance to be in­catch on to the drama, and, in this cam­formed. But today, television also paign, polls show growing impatience threatens the life of the political with the actors. process itself. With the emergence of How can we change the system? the thirty-second sound bite and the Hopefully, candidates in future races photo-op, the media consultant has will detect our dissatisfation with the reached an enviable position within way the issues are presented and campaign hierarchies. Even policy ad-respond by a return to real discourse. 
Doonesbury 
IAJ&U, BARBARA, IU & UJOK­ING INTO TH61r1JfT7"8f<. l'U. 88 5TU/7'/ING IT. I WANT 70 HAV& AU-TH& FAGT51N FRONTOF111& 
70 I CAN ~?,?-----=
As5&ss -Jvtr --:--...1 
TH& 51T-?.-~ l 
' 
. 
UATION. (~~ 
~~ \ 

Some institutional changes could have As far as conventions and advertising a positive impact. The parties them­go, the voters do have a direct line of selves, who control the debates, ought influence. Public funding pays for a to insist on a new format. The present good part of the staging of a convention. one puts unreal expectations on the can­Conventions might again become didates. They must know every fact, meaningful arenas for substantive dis­every figure, and every position. When cussions if they weren't pawns of the a question is asked about education, for network executives, who are in turn instance, rather than addressing it, the pawns of their corporate sponsors.candidate flips through his mental card Voters ought to demand that conven­file and regurgitates his position paper tions be broadcast only on public tele­on education. vision. As the networks themselves 
To rectify this problem, the format plan to cut back on convention ought to emphasize freer debating be­coverage, a -move to PBS might be ex­tween the candidates and less involve-pedient anyway. 
The financial burden of 
The use of advertising is tricky toteleViSiOn COmmercialS reform, since it involves questions of increases their strategic first amendment jurisprudence. But importance. perhaps the federal elections commis­
sion could stipulate that no matching 
----------------funds be used for television advertising. ment by the media. Such a change Here, again, PBS might help by offer­would also do away with the unfairness ing the candidates, free of charge, of rebuttals in the current system. In lengthy slots of time in which they could one press conferencetlebate we just carefully and responsibly spell out their saw, for instance, a candidate was positions on the issues. asked to list the most influential book or movie he recently read or saw. How Reform won't return us to the pre­was the opponent to offer a rebuttal? television days. In light of the per­In the process of answering this type manence of sound-bites and one liners, of question, we missed a chance to see voters need to ask themselves whether the candidates actually debate each they want to pick the best actor or the other on an important issue. best leader. But I do believe that the A new system in which the candidates reforms I've suggested have real po­have more control would most likely tential since they rely on the two most mean more mistakes. But for real dis­significant elements in elections--the course, a mistake here or there is a parties and the voters themselves. It's small price to pay. We would also have about time we rescued the future of our to learn that our future president is not nation's leadership from the communi­an expert in every subject. Education cations experts, Madison Avenue, and along these lines might not be such a the Big Three. bad thing, however; we would be able to decide which subjects we think are 
Chris Devron is a senior government
important for candidates to have ex­
major and is a regular Viewpoint col­
pertise in, and then observe their 
umnist. 
answers in those areas. 
P.O. Box Q
\ 

and-white, cut-and-dried policy issue.El Salvadoran We were allowed an unusual insight into a U.S. foreign policy concern fromtalks planned the vantage point of the human beings who are directly feeling the effects of Dear Editor: the decisions that we voters make from 
Last spring, a group of nine people our vantage point in the north. from the Notre Dame-South Bend com­This week, Nov. 1-4, all of us at Notre munity made a trip to El Salvador, a Dame-Saint Mary's are fortunate to country torn by civil war since 1980. We have a chance to gain some of this in­were able to speak with many of the sight. Mario and Maria, two people common people of this country who are from the grassroots of El Salvador, are caught in the midst of the strife -­here to view the reality of our situation people, who like the majority of Sal­and to share with us some of theirs. vadorans, have chosen not to take up Please take this opportunity to talk with arms but who instead are peacefully them and to touch this important per­working and hoping for a change in the spective on El Salvador. Contact the oppressive government1nilitary struc­Center for Social Concerns about times ture of their nation and a mediated and places when meetings will be held. resolution to this war that has savagely wracked their civilization. 
Pete Morgan

Our time in El Salvador allowed us 
Alumni Hall 

to put human faces with a situation that 
Oct. 31, 1988 

we otherwise tend to view as a black-
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
PleASE 
lXJN'T [)() 
THAT. 

"Just because the message 
may never be received does 
not mean it is not worth 
sending." 
Segaki 

Wednesday, November 2, 1988 page 11
Viewp0 int 
•

Election '88: The uninspired campa1gn 
Author's Note: The following co~umn is accused of leaning too far toward one in Texas? It sure isn't Mike Dukakis. the rest of us. Perhaps if he took a stand 
not, I repeat not, satire. Each word is candidate, the next they are being Ifthis is the mainstream, why are there on something and defended himself, he 
to be taken literally. Kind of. criticized for not taking a stand. millions of people living below the may win the respect of these people. In 
As the sound bites and photo oppor­And what of J. Danforth Quayle? Does poverty level? Why are you proposing ignoring the liberal voters, he is driving 
tunities we know as the 1988 presiden­this man deserve to hold the office of lower interest rates so more people can them into apathy and disillusionment. 
tial election grind to a long-awaited vice president? He has been grilled by buy homes? Judging by your idea of He is not the only non-conservative on 
halt, one fundamental question must be the media for using daddy's influence "mainstream," most of us already the ticket. By alienating the liberal 
asked: do either of these sniveling, to avoid being shipped to Vietnam. I do have one place to live. Or two. Or three. base, he may have driven them to 
mud-slinging, uninspiring men (using not hold this against him. I, too, would What is so terrible about being a voting for an independent or libertarian 
the term lightly) deserve our vote? have used every ounce of influence to liberal? According to Webster's, a ticket or even worse, not voting at all. 
Does George bush, who has played avoid being involved in a senseless war. liberal is "tolerant of views differing
patty-cake with the likes of General But, for him to have done this and still from one's own" and "favoring politi­My final gripe about Decision '88 con­
Noriega and Ayatolah Khomeni, believe the war was justified and to con­cal reforms tending toward democracy cerns each man's courage. Neither has 
deserve to sit in the oval office? Does tinue supporting arms for the Contras and personal freedom for the individ­been willing to take a stand on the is­
Michael Dukakis, who has been unable boggles the mind. There is a fine line ual." Tolerance of other's views? Poli­sues. Neither has had the courage to 
to stare down a spineless George Bush, between cowardice and conscience and tical reforms tending toward distinguish himself from his opponent. 
deserve to sit down with Gorbachev to Master Dan has crossed it. democracy? No wonder Bush treats Bush and Dukakis have run an uni­
decide the fate of the world? As Nancy Who is running the Dukakis cam­"liberal" like a four-letter word. nspired, uncommitted, underhanded 
says, "Just say no!" Does the American paign, Pee Wee Herman? It very well Heayen forbid we be tolerant or willing campaign. Neither has had the courage 
public, who has put up with more than may be the most disorganized, lazy to stand up to the other and say, "I am 
a year of overblown name-calling, campaign ever run. One wonders if the The parties themselves, the better candidate and here's why." 
deserve a better choice? In this year of Dukakis camp has any idea what kind Instead, we are subject to such non­
who control the debates,
"Cultural Diversity," the answer must of operations Bush has his fingerprints sense as "a thousand points of light" 
be, "Oui, mes amis." on in the last eight years. Remember ought to insist on a new and "we can do better." I've heard 
the Iran-Contra scandal? Dirty dancing format. more concrete statements in Bridget's 
Tom Varnum with General Noriega? These should be on a Saturday night. 
two of the biggest issues of the cam­to change. The dispute over this word
third and long 

paign, yet we have heard next to noth­is pointless anyway. Read my lips, For once, Dukakis may have a point.
ing on these issues from the Dukakis George. Dukakis is not a liberal. He is We can do better. We can do better than 
campaign. so close to you on the polical spectrum, these two candidates. As one of my pro­
What has happened to the election As for the Bush campaign, it is more he can tell what flavor gum you are fessors remarked in class last week, 
process in our country? Bush and slickly packaged than a group of Solid chewing! Jesse Jackson is a liberal. "If, out of the 240 million people in our 
Dukakis have twisted and manipulated Gold dancers. I am beginning to wonder Mario Cuomo is a liberal. Mike Dukakis country, our choice for the highest of­
the truth so much even they are con­if George wears red, white and blue is not. fice in the land comes down to these 
fused. In the first debate, Dukakis skivvies. Bush claims Dukakis wanders two, we are truly in some deep doo­
called Bush the "Joe Isuzu of American somewhere "outside of mainstream This is part of Mike's problem. Why doo." 
Politics." Ah, people in glass houses, America." Excuse me, George? Just has he abandoned his liberal base? Why
eh, Mike? Dukakis has done his share who lives in the vice presidential man­is he worrying so much about the so­Tom Varnum is a senior Eng~ish and 
of creative campaigning. Even the sion in Washington? Or in a beach house called Reagan Democrats? These communications major and is a regu~ar 
press is confused. One minute, they are on the coast of Maine? Or in a condo people are as sick of George Bush as Viewpoint co~umnist. 
Honor Code lacks student support 
Within the next two years, Notre As one student explained to me, tee honesty, the administration has SYR dances, the number each dorm 
Dame will be a university completely during the summer before his freshman thrown the responsibility to the stu­can have, and the minimum level of 
under an honor code. Although I sup­year, after confirming his acceptance dents: ~e ~ust now regulate our own participation each SYR must have. 
port the honor code, I have doubts that to Notre Dame, he was sent a packet academic hves to ensure that we live 
it will really work at Notre Dame. I of papers that he had to sign. In this them honestly. In effect, the adminis­Of course, the argument can be 
have heard that it work:; at other packet was one sheet that only briefly tration says that with the honor code, raised that the alcohol policy is a nec­
schools, so well that professors are not explained the honor code and asked for students do not need an external system essary regulation because of the threat 
afraid to give closed-book, timed take­a signature. Thinking that these were enforced by the University to guarantee of liability. But at Haverford College, 
home tests. At these schools, there is standard forms, he went through the academic honesty, because we can the alcohol policy that their adminis­
no schedule during exam week; stu­packet signing the forms without think-guarantee honesty ourselves, without tration has recently proposed must be 
dents take their exams any time they ing much about what he was signing; external regulations. accepted by the student body before it 
want and are on their honor not to give when he arrived at Notre Dame, he then What the administration has done to takes effect. A friend at Haverford tells 
out or receive test questions. The honor learned more about what he had our academic lives with the honor code me that the students will most likely 
code works at these schools because the already committed himself to. That the is inconsistent with the way they regu­accept the policy because they under­
students respect it. But even with our administration can produce a stack of late our social lives. Parietals are the stand the threat that liability causes to 
pathetic version of the honor code at forms showing that the entering fresh-best example of the regulation of our the University. 
Notre Dame, which does not provide men have pledged to follow the honor social lives. Parietals, in effect, say to 
for such benefits as an unscheduled code does not mean that they truly sup-us that there is a time to socialize, a The administratiOn has created an at­
exam week, students do not respect the port the code. time to sleep, and a time to study. To mosphere at Notre Dame where the 
honor code. Another reason that the students do make it easy for us, the University has regulation of students' social lives is 
not respect the honor code is that they • • • high, where student opinion on major
Gregory Volan had no say in establishing the policy. What the adminiStration policy decisions is unimportant, and 
The "honorable" way to institute an haS done tO OUr 8C8· where policy is dictated from the ad­
guest column 

honor code is to hold a r~ferendum: if demic lives with the ministration to the students. Time after 
the students overwhelmmgly support • • • time, the students have been forced to the honor code, then it should be in-honor COde IS lnCOnSIS· accept these decisions without their There are several obvious reasons for ~tituted camp~s-wide.Jf the code were tent with the way they own input. And now, the administration this disrespect. First, many students, mtroduced thiS way, then students regulate OUr SOCial liVeS wants students to take control of their 
if not the majority, are simply against would respect the code because they · • own academic honesty and regulate it 
the idea of an honor code. This became had a say in the matter. Also, entering set 2 a.m. as the time to kill all social themselves, although the students are 
obvious to me when we discussed freshmen would be exposed to a student interaction on campus. At 2 a.m. it is unprepared for this freedom. Is it so 
moving the Program of Liberal Studies body that supports the honor code; they bedtime for the well-balanced person. surprising that the students object to 
onto the honor code, and the majority would learn to appreciate the code and Why do we need such artificial rules to the honor code? It is the natural and 
of students in the Program opposed it. pass this support of the honor code on guarantee that we live healthy, consistent reaction of a student body 
Although the administration can and to the classes that follow. moderate lives? Why can't we regulate that is used to being regulated by the 
will claim that entering freshman sup­Although the lack of respect for the our own social lives in the same way administration. The University, 
port the honor code because the~ ~ledge honor code is a problem for its effec-that the honor code lets us regulate our however, is being inconsistent with it­
to abide by the code before arnvmg at tiveness, there is a more subtle prob-own academic lives? At Notre Dame self as it establishes this honor code. ­· Notre Dame, we must remember that lem: it is inconsistent with the other we are used to having our social lives Although I support the idea of an honor 
students choose Notre Dame for many policies concerning students that the regulated for us, and we find reasons code, I cannot respect the honor code 
reasons, but that Notre Dame is on the administration has established. The to accept the rules. here at Notre Dame because the other 
honor code is not one of them. Rather, honor code is a way of deregulating the The alcohol policy is another example policies are inconsistent with it. 
it is something they will put up with to policing of academic honesty. Instead of the regulation of our social lives. The 
come here. of having a set of safeguards to guaran-University has dictated the rules at Gregory Vo~an is a junior PLS major 
Editorial Board Operations Board
-Ih-e-~--~~-­
----~&.~Y=-~A---­
Editor-in-Chief............... . .................... Chris Murphy Business Manager ............................ John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor.......... . ........ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly KNien News Editor.................. . ........... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ......... ........ Unda Goldlchmidt News Editor........................ .... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadene Shilts 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor... . . . ....... Man Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor................ ...... ........... Marty Strasen Controller ........................................ Todd Hardiman the administration of erther instrtution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor... . . ................. Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor..... ............. Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor. . . . .. .. Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 

~....................~------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------~ 
Accent
page 12 Wednesday, November 2, 1988 
A new and different sound at the JACC 
S 
REGIS COCCIA Great Thou Art." song with only a piano ac­accent writer During the concert, it was companiment.difficult to tell who enjoyed piritual song met spirit the show more, Patti or the Patti's appearance at Notre when award-winning audience. The vocalist Dame was sponsored by Sun­gospel singer Sandi Patti en­colored her performance with shine Promotions and Chick­tertained thousands in a con­stories from her daughter An­Fil-A, a national fast-food res­cert in Notre Dame's Joyce na, age four. taurant chain which supports ACC Tuesday night. Early in the show, Patti Christian music. When she Patti, one of the nation's asked all children in the audi­·completes the U.S. part of the top female inspirational ence from age five to nine to "Praise Glorious" tour, Patti vocalists, stopped at Notre come on stage. About 150 will have performed in 120 Dame on her "Praise children gathered on stage to cities, including New York, 
... Glorious World Tour 1988-sway and wave with Patti, Los Angeles, Chicago, Atlanta 1989." Accompanied by who led them in "The and Nashville. pianist Dick Tunney and a Friendship Company," a song quintet of singers, Patti in­about knowing Jesus and At 32, Patti is familiar with spired the audience with her being friendly with others. performing--and getting voice and captivated them by The concert's most emo­awards for doing it better sharing her feelings. tional moment came after than anybody else in gospel 
She glittered in a sequined Patti related a touching expe­music. She has been honored 
blue gown, but Patti's voice rience with her daughter An­with four Grammy Awards, 
shone during songs such as na. "Aren't you glad (Jesus) recognizing the Best Female 
"Love Will Be Our Home" didn't say, 'Come unto Me ye Gospel Performance, four 
and "In Heaven's Eyes." Two who have your act to­Gold Albums, representing 
of the concert's most gether?"' she joked. Then, in sales exceeding 500,000 copiesmemorable songs were "Let tears she sang "In Your Pres­and 19 Dove Awards for her There Be Praise" and "How ence," an emotional, melodic contributions to gospel music. 

Sandi Patti brought her "Praise Glorious" 
This year, the Gospel Music JACC Tuesday evening. Association gave Patti three .----------------------------. Dove Awards for Gospel Art­ist of the Year, Female Vocalist of the Year and Song 
Calling all poets
of the Year ("In the Name of the Lord"). 
Patti began singing when 
.Special to The Observer she was a little girl in her 
trance forms necessary.native Anderson, Ind. and has 
N arne and address should be 
T 
he John Keats Poetry 
been involved in music ever 
on each typed, legibly printed Prize of $100 has been 
since. She and her husband 
or photocopied sheet. SASEestablished by New American required Publication Spring Poets as an annual award
John Helvering have been 
issue of New American Poets open to all U.S. college stu­
touring since 1979, after 
First North American Serial dents.
Sandi's Sfmg, Patti's first al­
Rights acquired. 
bum came out. 

In addition to the Keats Submit entries to New 
:·, 

Prize, three categories have American Poets, 2395 Sim­
Since then, Patti has 
been established as book montown Road, Gap, Penn­
produced eight albums, ap­
award prizes (chosen at the sylvania 17527. The award
peared on "The Tonght 
discretion of the award direc­director is Dominic Tomas­
Show," the Grammy Awards 
tor) plus publication. setti.
and several network specials 
The deadline for entries is 
such as NBC's "Christmas in 
Nov. 30, and the entry re­New American Poets is an
Washington" in which she 
quirement is $1 per poem. emerging poetry quarterly 
sang before the President and 
Submissions should be limited emphasizing contemporary 
A collection of S.ndl Patti's greatest hlta. Mrs. Reagan. 
to no more than five poems. poets and poetry, criticism Work must be previously un­and line drawings. Chapbook published, traditional rhymed format, copyrighted. Further 
forms or contemporary free information available upon verse; no length limit, no en-request. 
Social issues seminars 
A
AMY ECKERT sentatives from our govern­tions throughout Kentucky accent writer ment and foreign govern­and West Virginia. The stu­ments. They discussed dents had a chance to work in record number of Notre international concerns with day care centers and per­Dame students spent their diplomats at the Soviet and formed manual labor such as midsemester breaks learning South African embassies, and painting, cleaning, and about social issues through also met with U.S. negotiators repairing roofs. Taking part semina:-s held in Washington, from Geneva at the Pentagon in hoe-downs and potluck din­D.C. and Appalachia. The and a CIA representative. ners with Appalachian resi­seminars, offered every se­The students also talked to dents also helped them to ab­mester as theology courses some special interest groups, sorb the culture of the region. through the Center for Social such as Greenpeace. Cultural Affleck said that the semi­Concerns, sent 22 students to activities, such as sight­nars were intended to enable Washington, D.C. and 100 to seeing and a play at the Ken­students to compare what 
-Appalachia, according to nedy Center, were also part they saw and learned with Mike Affleck, Coordinator of of the agenda. their Christian values. "What Justice and Peace Program­we hope they learn is how to ming and Education. The Notre Dame students find God inthis world," he 
Once in Washington, D.C., participating in the Appalac­said. the students met with repre-hia seminar went to six loca-
Calvln and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
--~----------~~ 
LOC*. 'f*W' OONT I LOOI( COOl? 
To participate in one of the Appalachia seminars will be 
~MAot~' I'(M I CAN F\G~T CRIME 
seminars, a student needs offered again next semester,
4. S\JPER~ ~1\\0JT At.I~ONE. ~~lNG oon-n} ·. ~ \RIJE H:Hmi'l! enthusiasm and a willingness along with a seminar in Nor­to examine the social issues thern Ireland. Due to the the seminars raise. "We're large number of applicants looking for students inter­this semester, students were ested in taking a serious look given priority by class. If you at the issues of justice and are interested in participat­repression," Mfleck com­ing, it is therefore rec­
mented. comended that you apply ear­The Washington, D.C. and ly. 
~---­
---~~------------~---~ ~---­
Wednesday, November 2, 1988 The Observer 
page 13 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
Classifieds 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN PARENTS COMING. NEED 2 PENN ST. NEED 1 STUD & 4 GAs(PENN ST) "MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­CRAIG GUNDERSEN CANCUNI Become a College Tours rep­GA' Melissa x2707 PAIGNS" A PRESENTATION BY PAUL is 
HEATMISER

NOTICES 
resentative on your campus and get a PLUS TWO GA'S FOR FRIENDS. DO REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­We love your haircutfree trip. Nothing to buy-we provide NOT RUIN OUR REUNION. x23n ,$$ HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 MENT SERVICES. ROOM 122 HAYES XOXO, Elaine & Kathy
everything you need. It's easy! Call 1-JEFF. STUD. TIX FOR RICE GAME. LYNN HEALY CENTER. TONIGHT, 6:30p.m. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
800-727-0005 STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS WEL­
SMC-5132

287-4082 w..\N:riio;··;;··Fiic"E..C3A:;;···c"AU:..t:1ii<e 
COME. REPEATED TOMORROW­P•ce PI­
................................................................ 
6 PENN STATE GA RICK 4235 X2261 NO-USC TRIP TIX FOR SALE 2n-4271 SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. 
t. Do we have too go through the mon­WORDPROCESSING-TYPING siix···siix···sE"x···sEx···siix····M·a·Niiv tains to get to Appalachia? 2. I keep
GLOW IN THE DARK NO T-SHIRTSI 272-3827 seeing people in the log. 3. I wish all the 
NEED USC TIX 2n-4271 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT. for MONEY$$ MONEY MONEY Call Shana For sale in St. Ed's rooms 125 and 126. lines were solid. 4. I think I'm going to
only$90.00 a monlh,starting right at X2691, offer her 2 Rice tickets and i..NiiE:·ii-·P'iiNN···srA"ii-rixi···;;t:iiA"sii Call Tim at x1783. now.Call-3476. listen to what she'll offer you! Great Christmas Gifts!! 
have a hear attack. 5. Wa~. We're out

CALL # 2n1 ASAP! ASK FOR BETSY
Matt ""Schmear· Gallagher lor VP of hot chocolate 6. We need a calorie i..Nii'Ei:i··;;·P·iiN·N·s;::·"GA"·s:oAN··~;;;·;·;; high. 7. Let's keep eating until dinner. 6.
BAE Computer needs responsible stu­N.iiiio.iouscrici<E:rs·c:A"u::284:5Q·;a dent to represent our computer. In­NEED RIDE Get off man. 9. H~ her. Hit her now. 10. 
LEAVE MESSAGE

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL centive bonus plan. Interested i""Nii"Ei:i··;··FiicE·s:ruo·:ric:::oAN"·~;;;·;·;; to Mpls., MN for 1V4-tlro will pay ex­'i 'azel!
per­MRS. COKER 233-7009. more to come
sons please send resume to 3563 N'Eiio·;··-ro3··;;iiNN·s;::·C3·..\:s::·Mv·i:i·..\o penses. call nm 4788 Ryder Street, Santa Clare, CA 95051. 
i..ii.iiAi:i:v:·FiiiA"Ci.v..Niiiio.rwo·s;:l:i-
WILL PAY YOUR TUITION!! MIKE x1817 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR oENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE i-~~;;j·~·;;;;~-~~-;:~;;;~~·;;~~:·Fl.:\."~~~;,:;~ TYPIN!WIORDPROCESSING ITALIAN CLUB MOVIE
GAME.CALL CHAD at 1580. the week of 1 VI 9-11126. Call Dave 2n­
NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX. $$CALL x2133.
237-1949 "A JOKE OF DESTINY" :;;~·~;;;;;;··P-iiN'N.rixii ..2.C3A"·~··;.;~~i;;··;;;. TONIGHT AT 8:00
i·~;;;;;;--3-·Fi;;;·C3:A.:~:··c:~ii·i<~~·~;··si;;·~;
FOR SALE 0854 
J;;;;~~-o~~~--J~;;;~~··o~;~··j·~;~~··o~~-~ PW PARTY ROOM
really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call 
# 3122

Typing. Call Pat at 271-8116. Located 
waller x2151 or michelle x2844 Stop by the LaFortune Ticket Sales from 
1 need 1 student ticket for Rice. Call
2 mi. north of Notre Dame. 
12-3 daily and meet James Dean APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­P'iiN·N·sr."rix.NE'iioiio"Ne.iio.GA";~-~.i James Dean James Dean James Dean SENIOR BLOCK PARTY FRIDAY, NOV 18 COME CELEBRATE WITH YOUR 
Monica at # 267 4 

cluding keyboard, green-screen monrtor. STUDENT TIX call CHRIS or PAT 2053 Faii··;;;.:_E:·;;·ii-icii."GA":~ii.c:A.LL..i<iiFiil• disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­or KAY 4853 NEEDED: 2 XL T-SHIRTS CLASSMATES AND" RESIDENTS OF 
AT x2156 

pleworks word processor, blank data dis­"CATHOLICS VS CONVICTS" SOUTH BEND SENIOR BLOCK PARTY! MadMacs ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283-i.N.iiiio·2·ii·,c;ii·C3A:~·PREF.iiR'..\eLvra·-i ..Niiiiii..4...Pii.NN'··;;r:··C3A:;:.:::;;;i,:··;;~Y CALL 232-2051 EXT. 240. SENIOR BLOCK PARTY! Mealing 3481. 
GETHER. CALL 3023 OR 2999. 
mucho dinero $$$$$$!11 Please call Bob
Thursday, Nov. 3 :ra····;:;;·ii·-··C3·iFii:····iN .. ··;:·;;e··..P"uFiPLE HAPPY BIRTHDAY MISSY! LUV, H 
at x2321 and we'll talk!

······;;i~~~~-~i~~·;;;;;··;;;~~-·si:··a-;.::~i·····
7pm Am 226 Computing Center Government Homes from $1.00. SWEATER AND GREEN COAT WHO
................................................................ 
CLUB 23-Call for our dally specials.

Featuring Desktop Publishing "U Repair". Also tax delinquent Okay, I'll pay good money lor them, but ATE LUNCH IN THE HUDDLE FRIDAY
I need 4 Rice GA's. Call John 2n-5364.and other neat stuff property. Call 805-844-9533, Ext. 1 really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at AFTERNOON, HOW WOULD YOU LIKE 234-3541 The Notre Dame 1029 for Info. 
283-4220. i:i"iisP"iifi..\i:e-c-v·;;;;;;;;·2-FiicE.GA:;i·wii. TO MAKE A NEW FRIEND? KEN 2n­
Macintosh User Group MEGAN GILLIGAN IS 20 TODAY!
4587 MadMacs w·ANriio;·;-i~--i~;··ii;~;··~~"d··p-;~~-si~i~ 
pay $!1 Please call collect after 6 pm. 
513-531-3192. Thanks. 1978 AMC Concord games. You may call collect at (312 893-THANKS SMC VOLLEYBALL TEAM! 
WATCH OUT, DAFFAGILLY,

2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mich tires 3413. Thanks. ro;;·-s·FoFi.Gooi:i..so:··c:Ai::··seArs. THIS ROOKIE THINKS WE'RE new battery and brakes, excellent AWESOME LINKS IN A CHAIN THAT Cuz we're all feeling kind of silly
NEED 2-8. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT lor student. Good car. CANT BE BROKEN. LOVE JENNIFER
i..N.iiiio..ii..Pii'NN"..srA"-Tii..rici<s··;;vit:i. You're in need of lots of luck 
(805) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
Tomorrow don't be mad at OI'BicChuc

LOST/FOUND 
Call Chris 284-4288 PAY TOP$$$ CALL 271-0904 t:..ii:usc.rFii;;·;:·,:x·Foiics..\Cii.277427i 
But TONIGHT WILL BE A DILL Yl 

;.;~~;·2-·Fi;;;.;··ti~:~;;;;;;~:;·b~-i~~ih~~-M~-;;.,
"Niiii.iiii·ii;··3··;;ii"NN"..srArii..sruo··c;R 
3278 
NEED USC TIX 2n-4271

RICE WEEKEND GA (RICE STUD. TIC FOR SALE ORLOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN Rooms available next to campus TRADE) JIM 1935 i-~~~d·i ..Fii~~·~;~d~·~;·;;~k~i:·c:~ii # 1647. sMc-··s·c;;·iNiiss···ci:us···p-iie.iiii.N:rs After Notre Dame beat Miami, a friend 
LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY JAMISON INN (219) 2n-9682 of my brother, a Notre Dame Alumni was 
.....................................................\ ..........
CROSS SYR. i..N.iiiio..Pii.NN'..sr:A.rii..rici<E:rs..iN··;,. WALL STREET NOV 1-3 IN CARROLL 
Need 2 Rice GA's call Mike x3235 in his glory. 4 day's later he got laid off
IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE AUD 9&11 ONLY $1.
Computerized TYPEWRITER. Excellent BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF after 20 years at Xerox. What does heFILM. PLEASE. JEFF X3580 
condition. 2996 THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL 
Two Rice tix for sale 272-5095 C3iiiiiio.is..C3ooo:·~;;·v;;~,i-si;~~~-"N~~ want? A "Hate Night at Notre Dame" or BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL "Cathloics vs. Convicts" T -shirt. Come
t-3 SMC Carroll Aud. 9&11 $11966 VOLVO Great Town & Winter Car TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A 
DESPERATE on, help an Alumni out. If you've got oneLost! Keys on a Notre Dame key ring 
$800.232-3438 Before lOam After 7pm. FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DDNT to sell call x3263.
Lost in Lewis Hall October t 4. If found i:~~~;;·i·~·;~·;·~~~~~~~:·s~~-w~ii.si;~~i·"N~~
DELAY-CALL TODAY Ill I NEED 10 PENN STATE TIX, GA OR 
call Julie at 4143 t-3 Carroll Aud SMC 9& 11 $1 Sponsored
USC-NO PACKAGE FOR SALE# 1370 STUDENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME I'D 
by SMC Business Clubs )
..................... APPRECIATE IT! CALL TRISH M 284-MIKE the CW
FOUND!! I One jean jacket! It was left in 
My·d~d·;;·~·;i~~~~·.;--N:o supporter who 5056. ...........,\ii;~ii~~-·sMc·F~~;h;,:;~~·········· Will you kindly keep your mail to yourseH? 
our room on October 14. If you are mis· 
has seen N.D. edged out at P.S.U. the ................................................................ You're embarrassing me (but not enough 
sing a jacket call Julie or Lenore at # Clue # 2 Red, Red Paint It Red
TICKETS 
last two games. I want him to see us that I'd disinvite you on Saturday).
2198 to identify or stop by 208 Lewis. November 12 
Thanks in advance. crush them, can you help me? I need 2 
................................................................
PERSONALS 
SATURDAY NIGHTS TOP 15 .15)But One Big HLOST: HELP!! My dad was here for NEED FOR HOME or 1 GA and 1 stud. Call me
I TIXS ALL GA's at 
the Air Force game and lost his he's soo ugly. No he's noll 14)Baby
GAMES.272-6306 4935. 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NEXTN.D. CANDY cakes, Baby cakes, BABE 13)We don'tN.D. Letter Sweater at Sr. Bar DR. McALLISTER!!!! Good job Shannon.

Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White have beer but we haveIf you picked one up by accident 
WATERFORD BED & BREAKFAST Need 4 RICE GA & 1 PENN ST Stud or Love ya, Elisa. please call Colleen at 272-5891 GA. Call Maurine 2615. 
Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check some...We'll drink ill 
welcomes NOTRE DAME FANS to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 12)Wait, before this goes any THE MOST IMPORTANT FILMThis swealer is really important 

1854 Brick ltallanate home on National S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 2t3-741-further, Is this a private convo?
to him and he'd really appreciate I need 4 Riee GA's. $$$ Call John at YOU WILL SEE THIS YEAR ... 
Historic Register. 1338. ttTurn out the lights and I'll bark tO)I've
anyone who would return ~-Thanks 2371 
CRY OF REASON No ·iiaci<iiv······vs-:······;;tiC"iiiaA"N: THURS. 11110 7:30 PM at CSC 
45 minutes from South Bend never been in this dorm! 9) No, he's not, 
219-533-6044. No you don't,
db desperately desires 2 penn state ga's 
DEARBORN, Yes, he might, Yes you should!
LOST GOLD ST. CHRISTOPHER x2352 or x2375 1 FOOTBALL GAME IN 2 YEARS. MEDAL. HAS GREAT SENTAMENTAL 
FRIDAY NIGHT 7:30. 8) I don't think you've ever seen wA"NrEo:··six..Fiicii"C3A"·~:·;;;;~~~-:~;;;:·6 me really drunk. 
VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3223, SAD, HUH?
I need many Penn St. GA'sl Call Pat DAVE. 
will pay CA$h... call Frank 7) This is totally hypothetical, 
xt535 ··························$$$$$"""'"""""""""""""""""""""""" 
or Rob-3137 of course. 
DONATE YOUR RICE TIX TO THE CSC LOST: CALCULATOR 
PENN STATE TIX WANTED 6) Liz: It's short for Lizard 5) I can always
NEED PENNST TICKETS CALL MIKE-Would the guy who I loaned my calculator 1628 PLEASE.
GA OR STUD TIX say, 'It's o.k., i ..N.iiiio··:rwc;;··;;ii"NN···s;::--C3A":s:--A"Nv iAn I was blind.'
CALL 234-1 048__
to on Sunday (H¥23) in the Library (2nd 
................................................................ 
floor) please call me. x3885. PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. HELP!! Family coming to the PENN ST hi ag. 4) No, but I have a compact, AF ROTC FORMAL BALL 
a lipstick, and coverup.
game. I need 2 GA's and 2 Student tix. ................................................................ Sat, Nov 5 
HELP! 3) She wants to know why I broke 
LOST:BUNCH OF KEYS AROUND NO SOPHOMORE BARN DANCE!! FUN & DANCING Ill 
Mark x1937. POST OFFICE. PLEASE CALL JULI 
I desperately need 2 Penn ST GA's at uo with you.
FRIDAY, NOV 41! 
239-6335. any cost.$$$$ Please call Stacy at x3nt 2) We're really good friends we M.B.: Italian men smell. Can't wait to get
Geraldo needs 6 GA's for 6 friends for BONFIRES! DJI HOT CHOCOLATE! 
just never socialize back to the states to see you. A.F.
the RICE game on the eve of the 6th. tlca on sale In clasa office In LaFor­
LOST IN THE HUDDLE # 1 YOU BE BLIND AND I'LL BARK
HE also needs 2 stud tix for the altar BROWN LEATHER PURSE. WARNING: LOVE
NE'iio..2" ..ioFi···4)···Fiicii···a·ii:s··c;ALL tune, Nov 1-3 btw 3-5 $5 per person HEY CHRISTINA QUOING I LOVE YOU 
boys. call SARAH X3736. COME JOIN THE FUNII 
MY WENDY X1511 $$$ Kate 'Mediate' IIIII from your secret admirer CREDIT IS NO GOOD! PLEASE Want to sell your NO-USC game trip &
My parents would love to see the # 1 RETURN ANYTHING YOU CANT USE. IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 package? Call Molly X1321. Liz 'ard Lips' CALL LISA AT 239-5474 OR 288-8733. 
NEiio····;;ii"NN····srAl-E···:rix::p-L£Asii 
CALL SHEILA--271-9365 Dear Gash, Sorry to rat on you, but now
GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. 
NO QUESTIONS ASKED. ...................................................... NEED, RIDE-BAY CITY-NOV 5 PAT Is anyone driving to or near Milwaukee the world knows that Nov. I was your bir NEED PENN GA'S & 1 RICE STUD X-GREEN 1440 on 1 V4 and back tlro, I NEED a ride. thdey, and that you're the prime can­
I really,really,really need 3 RICE GA's a 
LOST: Light-brown teddy-bear W' green 3100 Will share expenses. Please call Chris didate for a midnight plunge in the lake!
whole lot. TOM 287-6053 Tell my stupid 
QUEST FOR THE CROWN at x2923. Happy belated birthday bu ddy; I hope
ribbon on 101.19 at Carroll Haunted roomates to take a message if I'm not
Neiiio·2·PENN.srArii·i3·A:s·P"t:iiA"sii·,·;, Navy ROTC taught you how to treed
House: responds to "Cookie":very sen­Oct. 31-Nov.2
there. 

timental,call 4666 WILL PAY$$ 239-7323 ................................................................ IS ANYBODY GOING TO DAYTON THIS water! A week-long adventure to capture the WEEKEND, NEXT WEEKEND, OR ANY Bruce Lee
Yo' Skeezera--Papa Beer needs 2 GAs
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S I glory for your dorm! WEEK-NEND? WILL PAY $. CALL
LOST-Seiko watch before Oct. break. 
and one Stude for Rice. Big Biz Man REWARD. Jeff at 3151. Preferably together. MARY 284-5128 OR 5117
OCT.31-NOV.2
has his MoJo workln and needs tlx for ................................................................
Call Sharon at 288-2314. TO THE SAINT MARY'S GIRL whose 
a funky time. Tallgater Invites Included HAPPY 20TH MEGS! LOST: GOLD BRACELET IN ROOM 6, THE SAINT EDWARD'S HALL friend from Mich St. was up on Fri. 1 (}28 
In the package. Call Riff Randle at 1 hope your future fiance likes youngerO"SHAG OR NORTH DINING HALL ON PLAYERS WILL BE HOLDING OPEN and gave me and my buddy a ride fromx4508 to gat on the perty train. women.
4P"ii'NN.GA:s.NiiiioEoi·,·w·,·.:_L·P-;.:v·A'Nv AUDITIONS FOR AGATHA Campus View, I left my blue bookbag inTHURSDAY. OCT. 27. CALL ANITA AT 
Love, 'The Party Babes" 
4953. AMOUNT WITHIN REASON. CALL TIM CHRISTIE'S... TEN LITTLE INDIANS her car. If you have it please call Jeff at
C'MONII KNOW I CAN SCROUNGE UP 
1616 OR BRUCE 313-628-4300 8-5p.m. AUDITlONS WILL BE ON WED AT 4 283-2061
ABOUT 8 STD. TIX FOR THAT AND ON THURS AT 71N THE ST. ED'S HELP! Someone picked up my new L.L. 
···············c:A"sii··c:·iis-ii··c:A"sii··············· HOLOCAUSTAL RICE GAME CALL PARTY ROOM. ALL ARE WELCOME! We naed a new nameBean Flying Tiger leather jacket during 
NICK AT 3247 t~e Halloween party at Senior Bar Sat. 
1 Need 2 Rice GA's or my mom will kill YOU ONLY HAVE TO BE THERE FOR But we're gonna play at Bridget's
games, contests,toumaments,movies, night. Any info call Mike at 287-5502 no 
me. Call Dan at 3365. ONE OF THE TWO TIMES. FOR MORE Thu. Nita, 7-9:30 anyway ZETO & THE 
I need Penn St. GA's ... TOP $$$ dances, parties!!!! questions asked. Please return n-n was INFO CALL DUANE AT # 1661 OR HEAT-ONSGUARANTEED! Call Andy, 1930. QUEST FOR THE CROWN
M~iii~··;~·-~;;;·i;;;;··;~--Ni:i ..ii~~~i:;··i;;rt··~j;~ LOWELL AT# 1699 Mon, Oct.31-Fri, Nov.4
my only warm jacket. P.S. We play really good songs 
needs a ticket for PENN STATE (either ................................................................
I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S SO LOST: Ruby ring on South Quad. If found, 
GA or student) Please call Beth x1284. ITSCOMINGIII TO THE FARLEYITE IN THE CHAPEL
THAT THE NmANY LIONS CAN 
LATE SATURDAY NIGHT-I AM
please call 2731 and ask for Katie. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MURPH!
LOSE TWO MORE DIE-HAHD FANS. ··················oaN··r·MiSS'iTii······~·-··········
i-~~;;;;·P"ii'NN..s;::··~i;;;;··ii~~ii"3808······· PRAYING FOR YOU! 
Love, Lori Jen2 Lisa Louise Chris CALL X4652 

LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES! 
& Shannon DESPERATELY SEEKING 8 pen state WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? 
········c-..\FiNiv..\i:.oF··c:A"iiEiiFis·v········· 
WHAT DO THEY DO? 
tix Please call 44951 for sale: 1 Rice, 1 Penn St student ticket. 

FOR RENT COME SEE...EXPO ROMA'88 ­
MURPH, MEATLOAF IS CALLING fiiii:P..t:1ii·;··,... Nii.iii:i·--;···;;ii"NN··:rici<8·, best offer 289-2527 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3RD, 3-6 

OUR NAMES. LET'S DANCE TO PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 P.M. ST. MARY'S ANGELA ATHLETIC DIANE TRACY: You are one of the most 
CELEBRATE YOUR BIRTHDAY!

PLAIN AND SIMPLE. I NEED RICE TIX. 
FACILITY incredible looking girls that I have ever
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-LOU 289-4315
Ne'Eo.Fiicii:·P~sr.C3A.rix:·ALso..NiiEi:i seen! P.S. Your smile is awesome,too.
291-7153. ··········A;:;:·iiNli.oN"."No..sri:iosii·i········· 
A.F. PROGRAM. CHRIS x1073 signed, An Admirer HAPPY 
;I
I NEED 2 RICE GA'S MIKE 4113 ................................................................
5'7" SPUNKY BLOND NEEDS HELP 
21atAIESEC

8iC3..8i:ici<s..A'Ni:i.."No.wii.AMMiiis··;·j GETTING OVER A MAN. CAN YOU 
BIRTHDAY NEED 1 RICE ST. TICKET SO GIVE ME HELP??? Please send cards,letters,&
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N Breakfast I NEED Penn State stu. tix. $$$ AIESEC 
MIKE WISE A CALL AND LEAVE A MSSG KEVIN # !lowers to: "SHE LOST THAT LOVIN' MUCH LOVE, YOUR LIL'SIS 
Just 20 mlns. from NO. Ideal for al NO call John # 1806 AIESEC 
activities. Reserve now. 616-471-5711. AIESEC 271-0359 
FEELING" 349 BADIN HALL 
AIESEC BED 'N BREAKFAST wbath. Mlns. to 5 Rice stud. tix needed 4521-Pat AIESEC
i·L:c···s·uy:···A"NvrH'NC3···:r;;A";:····iivE'N ::;;tA·;c····c-Jiii.ij;"JiiGt:."S;····uAii:··--c;A"ii 
SYR DATES FROM HELL:campus. Avail. for Rice & Penn St. 2n­

CLOSELY RESEMBLES PENN TICK­PAIGNS. A PRESENTATION BY PAUL 10. He was nice but... 9. I don't think he 7696. 
HELP! I need 2 Rice GAs desperately ................. El:AiN·ii·HAM.MEs················· 
ETS (1 OR 2). CALL LAURA 3756. REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­likes girls. 8. I'm going with a Muppet­Call Tina at x4846 
MENT SERVICES. ROOM 122 HAYES Kermit 7. My date left me lor another
thanks for NAVY, Sixteen
HELPii..ouFi..PA.Fiii.N:rs.'FiNA"Ci.v..iiT HEALY CENTER. TONIGHT, 6:30p.m. woma 6. Oh my god ... He guido-dances!! 
Love, the slugs and the other geekWANTED US GO TO THE USC GAME AND NOW STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS WEL­5. Her date left her so lei's put 
BADLY in need of 9 Penn State tix 5 stud 4 GA call 1767 evenings 
COME. REPEATED TOMORROW -ice in her socks. SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. =ra·'i'f.iE:..i:s:a·sAN"a"LiE:r·c-a·M"MiniiE: 4. My dale left me for another man! 3. 
HIRING! Government Jobs-your aree. ALL WE NEED IS AT LEAST 4 TIX TO UB40 tic lor Fri. concert includes bus ride AND Honestly, the black shirt goes 
$15,000-$88,000. Call (602) 838-8885, THE GAMEl CALL JULIE AT 4351 OR # 14 78-ask for Doug ::iAAi·.::-···c-iii.ij;.JiiGN"s:·····i.iAii:····c;A·;,;: 
THE COOKS-THANKS A MILLIONIII great W' the whrte pants.
AMY 271-9885 

PAIGNS" A PRESENTATION BY PAUL FROM: THE BOARD MEMBERS 2. He didn't like all the alcohol. 1. HeExt. 6262. 
Need 2 Penn St. tics-GAs or studs name 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­tried to suck my lace off!!!
PENN STATE 42-0 over NO $$-call Doug # 1478 
MENT SERVICES. ROOM 122 HAYES 
...............................::................................

Or so says my brother. Need 4 
HEALY CENTER. TONIGHT, 6:30 p.m. 
Hey, J.R. JOHN EMGA's to show he's wrong. 
Need Two Penn. G.A.'s and will pay un­
STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS WEL­
HAPPY 26111 (late, for a change) So You FINALLY Got the Credit YouCall Shawn at 2380 to help.$$ 
limited green stuff Call 232-9541 and 
COME. REPEATED TOMORROW­
Lots of love, Deserve-CONGRATULATIONSI-An Ex­leave message 
SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. 
C&M 
Laxer 

..........................................................:;;-... 
................................................................ 

... 
r 
I r ­
• 
... 
page 14 


-Basketball Tickets 
Special to The Observer applied for lower arena seating 
will get it. 

Season basketball ticket dis­The rest of the tickets will be tribution begins today with the distributed according to the fol­senior class. lowing schedule: 
Student should bring their Sophomores-Wednesday copy of the ticket application Freshmen-Thursday and the balance due on the Beginning Friday, approxi­price of the tickets to Gate 10 mately 2000 tickets will be of the Joyce ACC after 1 p.m. available to all students who 
did not apply for tickets. They 
According to ticket manager will be sold on a first-come, Bubba Cunningham, all stu­first serve basis until they run dents, including freshman, who out. 
lnterhall Football 
MEN'S INTERHAU  WOMEN'S INTERHALL  
FINAL STANDINGS  w  L  T  Pet.  
P..-..ghllm t..gue  Farley  5  0  01.000  
w  .L.  T  Pet.  PF  PA  PW  3  1  0  .750  
Dillon  3  1  1  .700  48  9  Lew;s  3  2  0  .600  
011 Campus  3  2  0  .600  37  24  B·P  3  2  0  .600  
Flanner  2  1  2  .600  20  18  PE  3  2  0  .600  
Morriasey  2  2  1  .500  16  47  Howard  2  2  0  .500  
Keenan  2  3  0  .400  30  42  Siegfried  2  2  0  .500  
Grace  1 4 0 .200 L.Mhyl.Mgua  30  41  Lyons Walsh  2 2  3 3  0 0  .400 .400  
Knott  1  3  0  .250  
Alumni  3  1  0  .750  30  7  Badin  0  5  0  .000  
Stanford  3  1  0  .750  40  12  
HolyCrou  2  2  0  .500  22  42  
Cavanaugh  1  2  1  .375  13  24  
Zahm  0  3  0  .000  7  27  Wedneacloly'a RMulta  
Rockne I..Ngue  PW ovar Lyons  
BP over Lewis  
Fisher  2  0  2  .750  27  6  
Pangborn  2  1  1  .625  29  30  
Sorln Carroll St. Ed's  2 1 1  1 3 3  1 0 0  .625 .250 .250  32 20 25  15 55 27  Sunday'a Raaulta Lewis over Siegfried Howard over Lyons  
BP over Knott  
PLAYOFFS Sunclwf'a -..Ita  PE over Badin Fa~ey ovar Walsh  
Stanford 14, Pangborn 7  
Dillon 3, OC 0  Today'a Gllmcta  
Suncl8y'a Gamea  Howard vs. PW, 7 p.m.  
Alumni vs. Stanford, 2:15p.m., N Stepan  Knott vs. Siegfried, 8 p.m.  
Dillon vs.  FISher. 1:00 p.m .• N Stepan  Ptayofl palrlnga and ­ TBA.  

Irish Soccer 
Through Tuesday 
PLAYER, POSmON G-5 SOG G A PTS GW Randy Morris, F 18-18 34 10 10 30 1 Bruce McCourt, F 18-18 49 10 7 27 2 Joe Sternberg, MF-F 17·17 29 9 7 25 3 John Guignon, MF-ST 18-18 18 5 4 14 1 Danny Stebbins, F 16-0 11 4 1 9 1 Steve LaVigne, MF 14-11 19 4 1 9 1 Pat Murphy, F 16-0 8 3 3 9 0 Tom Connaghan, F 17-6 17 3 3 9 2 Mitch Kern, MF 18-12 20 3 2 8 2 Rolfe Behrje, MF 16-7 12 1 2 4 0 Mark Crowe, WB 13-4 2 1 0 2 0 Diego Miron, MF 3-0 1 1 0 2 0 Dave Augustyn, WB 18-17 6 0 1 1 0 Paul LaVigne, ST 18-18 1 0 1 1 0 Kar1 Roemer, MF 16-0 1 0 1 1 '0 Mike Drury, SW 18-18 5 0 0 0 0 Dan Gordon, WB 18-18 4 0 0 0 0 Rob LaMear, MF 6-0 0 0 0 0 0 Larry Scanlon, WB 7-0 1 0 0 0 0 Warr1ck Muldrow, MF 5-0 0 0 0 0 0 Steve Archer, F 2-0 1 0 0 0 0 Bobby Allong, MF 2-0 0 0 0 0 0 Danny Lyons, K 18-17 0 0 1 1 0 NOTRE DAME 18 241 55 43 153 13 OPPONENTS 18 160 20 16 54 3 
Corner Kicks: Notre Dame 141, Opponents 68 Penalties: Notre Dame 383, Opponents 267 
KEEPER G-S MIN G GAA s so RECORD Danny Lyons 18-17 1511 19 1.13 54 4 12-3-2 Kevin Mayo 7·1 169 1 0.53 2 0 1-Q-0 NOTRE DAME 18 1680 20 1.07 56 4 13-3·2 OPPONENTS 18 1680 55 2.94 95 1 3-13-2 
SCORE BY PERIODS 1ST 2ND 10T 20T TOTAL Notre Dame 25 30 0 0 55 Opponents 13 6 0 1 20 
SCHAEFFER IS THE ONE BEER TO HAVE WHEN 
YOU'RE 
TURNING 21
-

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
LOVE, 

MOM, DAD, KATHY, 
JIM, FRANK, DAWN, 
VINCENT,LINDSAY & 
KELLY 

AP Football Poll 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Notre Dame (44) 114-0 1,144 
2. Southern Cal (11) 7-0-0 1,097 
3. Miami, Fla. (1) 6-1-0 1,041 
4. West Virginia (2) 8-0-0 950 
5. Florida State 7-1-0 886 
6. UCLA 7-1-0 647 
7. Nebraska 8·1·0 835 
8. Oklahoma 7-1-0 739 
9. Auburn 7-1-0 715 
10. Wyoming 9·0-0 658 
11 . Arkansas 8-0-0 564 
Winning Percentages12. Oklahoma State 6-1-0 490 13. LSU 5-2-0 379 14. Michigan 5-2-1 352 15. South Carolina 7-1-0 301 16. Syracuse 6-1-0 281 
Team Years Won Lost Tied 0/o
17. Clemson 6-2-0 266 
18. Alabama 6-1-0 216 
1. Notre Dame 
19. Georgia 6-2-0 162 
20. Brigham Young 7-1·0 81 
2. Michigan
lie Indiana 6-1-1 81 
3. Alabama 
Others receiving votes: Texas-Ei Paso 26, Wash­
4. Texas

ington State 19, Southern Mississippi 15, Oregon 7, Colorado 6, North Carolina State 6, Pitt 4, Texas 
5. O<lahoma 
A&M 4, Army 3, Washington 2. Western Michigan 2, Houston 1. 
6. 
usc 


7. 
Ohio State


NBA Preseason 
8. Penn State 
Pre-aon Standlnga 
9. Nebraska 
Eeatern Contar.nca 
Atlantic Dlvlalon 
;1 0. Tennessee 
99 
108 93 95 93 95 
98 
101 
98 
91 

W  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  6  2  .750  Source: NO Football Guide  
Philadelphia New York Washington  6 4 4  2 3 4  .750 .571 .500  1.5 2  Soccer Poll  
Charlotte  2  4  .333  3  
New Jersey  1  6  .143  4.5  ISM c..ct.a' Polloi tha Top 20 Soccer teama  
Central Dlvlalon  1. Virginia  16-0-2  354  
2. Portland  19-0-0  342  
Cleveland  8  0  1.000  3. Sf. Louis U.  17-2-2  308  
Detroit  6  2  .750  2  4. Evansville  14-3-2  264  
Chicago  5  2  .714  2.5  5.  San Diego State  14-2-3  233  
Indiana  5  3  .625  3  6. Seton Hall  12-3-0  223  
Milwaukee  4  4  .500  4  7. South Carolina  11-3-3  211  
Allanta  3  5  .375  5  8. Indiana  15-3-1  195  
9. Howard  14-0-1  178  
Weatam Conleranca  10. Adelphi  13-4·1  150  
Mldwnt Dlvlalon  11. Wake Forest  11-3·4  101  
w  L  Pet.  GB  12. SMU  9-2-6  88  
Utah  5  3  .625  13. Connecticut  13-6-1  80  
San Antonio  4  4  .500  1  14. UCLA  11-4-3  50  
Houston  3  5  .375  2  15. Brooklyn  12-1-2  33  
Dallas  3  5  .375  2  16. Philadelphia Textile  13-2-5  18  
Denver  2  6  .250  3  17. George Mason  11-4-3  15  
Miami  1  4  .200  2.5  18.  North Carolina St.  10-5-1  13  
Pacific Dlvlalon  19. Boston U.  12-3-3  9  
20. Santa Clara  11-2-5  3  
LA Clippers Seattle  4 4  2 3  .667 .571  .5  Others receiving votes: Duke, Eastern Illinois, Ak­ 
LA Lakers  4  4  .500  1  ron , Air Force.  
Sacramento  3  4  .429  1.5  
Phoenix Portland  3 2  5 4  .375 .333  2 2  Scoreboard  
Golden State  2  6  .250  3  

Ragular -aon baglna Friday 
Football (8-0) 
Notre Dame 22, Navy 7 

Sports Calendar 
Hockey (2-4) 
Home games in CAPS 

RIT 8, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 3, RIT 2 Wednesday Men's soccer vs. WISCONSIN-GREEN 
Volleyball (12-9) 
BAY, 1 p.m. 

Nebraska over Notre Dame 15-12, 15-7, 15-13 Thursday Notre Dame over LSU 14-16, 15-13, 15-5, 15-10
No events scheduled 

Friday Men'a Soccer (13-3-2) Notre Dame 3, Penn State 1
Women's soccer at Michigan State 
Notre Dame 5, Boston U. 1
Volleyball at Eastern Michigan Men's soccer at MCC Championships 
Women's Soccer (13-5-1) 
in St. Louis 

Dayton 6, Notre Dame 0 Women's tennis at Rice Tennis Classic Xavier 2, Notre Dame 1 Hockey vs. DEARBORN, 7:30 
Croaa country
Saturday 
Men'a Football vs. RICE 12:10 p.m. 1st MCC Championships Volleyball vs. MICHIGAN, 7:30 p.m. Ron Markezich 1st, 24:01 
Women's
Hockey at Dearborn 

2nd at Mcc Championships 
Men's soccer at MCC Championships Women's tennis at Rice Classic Tennla Men's
Sunday 

hosted Tom Fallon Invitational 
Wrestling at Michigan State Invite 
David Dilucia 1st, A flight Women's tennis at Rice Classic Dilucia and Waiter Dolhare, 2nd Men's soccer at MCC Championships doubles 
659 202 40 .754 684 229 32 .741 632 223 43 .728 652 242 31 .722. 612 220 50 .722. 586 22.8 49 .707 614 243 49 .706 624 270 40 .690 622. 278 39 .683 584 259 59 .682 
Observer Graphic/Geoffrey Sauer 
· NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eeat 

w L T Pet. PF PA NY Giants 6 3 0 .667 190 178 Washington 5 4 0 .556 216 212 
Phoenix 5 4 0 .556 214 196 Philadelphia 4 5 0 .444 203 187 Dallas 2 7 0 .222 148 182 
Central 

Chicago 7 2 0 .778 164 113 Minnesota 5 4 0 .556 205 162 Detro~ 2 7 0 .222 112 166 Green Bay 2 7 0 .222 160 187 Tampa Bay 2 7 0 .222 165 233 
Weal 

LA Rams 7 2 0 .778 242 150 New Oooans 7 2 0 .778 190 149 San Francisco 6 3 0 .667 199 172 Atlanta 2 7 0 .222 169 244 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat 

w L T Pet. PF PA Buffalo 8 1 0 .889 199 139 NY Jets 5 3 1 .611 206 184 Miami 5 4 0 .556 176 182 Indianapolis 4 5 0 .444 205 179 Naw England 4 5 0 .444 155 199 
Cantral 

Cincinnati 7 2 0 .778 252 178 Cleveland 6 3 0 .667 153 132 Houston 6 3 0 .667 215 213 Pittsburgh 2 7 0 .222 189 237 
w..t 

Seattle 5 4 0 .556 158 174 Denver 4 5 0 .444 190 195 LA Raiders 4 5 0 .444 191 216 Sen Diego 2 7 0 .222 116 186 Kansas City 1 7 1 .167 112 149 
Suncl8y'a Gllmaa Tampa Bay at Chicago LA Raiders at San Diego Buffalo st Seattle Dallas at NY Giants OetroH at Minnesota Green Bay at Adanta LA Rams at Philadelphia Miami at New England Pittsburgh at Cincinnati San Francisco at Phoenix NY Jets at Indianapolis New Oooans at Washington Kansas City at Denver Buffalo at Seattle 
Monday'• GaiMe Cleveland at Houston 

The Satnt Edward's Hall Players vvill be holding auditions for 
Agatha Chnstie's 
~~1ren !Little !Indian§" 
Audtttons \ltllll be held on Wed. at 4:00 
Wednesday, November 2, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Flag football for a cause 
NVA directs USF&G tournament for paralysis research
Dillon, Stanford advance in playoffs 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Dillon and Stanford, defending champions of their respective divisions, began the drive to another champi­onship game with opening round victories Sunday in men's Interhall football action. 
Top seed Alumni and No. 2 seed Fisher each received first-round byes. 
Using a defense that held up in cricial situations, Dillon overcame a persistent Off Campus team with a 38-yard field goal by Kohl Schneider. The lone score of the game was booted on the last play of the first quarter. "I was greatly satisfied with the team's play," said Dillon captain Paul Drey. "We had a lot of guys hurt and the replace­ments did an exceptional job." 
Both teams keyed on defense in the second half, trading interceptions. Off Campus used a strong passing attack to sustain one final drive in the fourth quarter. Mter taking over on their own 24, Off Campus used a screen pass to drive to the Dillon 49. But the Crime would intrude no further. The Big Red defense rose to the occasion, regis­tering two sacks for a total loss of 14 yards. Mick Meyer intercepted on third and long to wrap up the win. 
Dillon will face Fisher in one of Sunday's semifinal games. 
Stanford ousted Pangborn behind two Sean Gilboy touch­downs to set up Sunday's rematch with Alumni, the favor­ite to win the championship. Alumni beat Stanford 10-6 in regular season play. 
Chris Westfeld scampered to the one yard line before Gilboy chalked up his first score of the day, ending the first half. Gilboy added another touchdown in the third quarter. 
"We played real hard, which is what we'll need to do every week to take the championship," commented Stan­ford captain Steve Wightkin. 
•.•.•.•.•.•.......•.•.~......................... i SOPHOMORES-Interested ! : • in the position of Sophomore !• ! Committee chairperson for Junior i i Parent's Weekend?. ! 
: Applications available 1n the : : Oftice of Student Activities, 3rd : : Floor LaFortune. : : Due November 7th, 1988 by 5pm : 
~·······~·····································~~ 
By KEVIN REISCH Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive year, Notre Dame will partici­pate in a nationwide campaign 
to  help  find  a  cure  for  
paralysis.  
Notre  Dame  students  and  

staff are eligible to enter a three-day flag football charity tournament occurring Nov. 11­13 at the Loftus All-Sports Cen­ter. All those who wish to take part in the event must register with a team of at least 10 players and submit a $25 entry fee at the Non-Varsity Athletics Office in the Joyce ACC by Mon­day, Nov. 7. 
The top moneymaking team in the nation wins a free trip to the USF&G Sugar Bowl. In ad­dition, the club that collects the most funds at Notre Dame receives Casio mini televi­sions. 
Last year, Notre Dame's drive raised over $6,300, the second highest amount in the country. Sally Derengoski, as­sistant director of NVA, hopes to build upon past success and capture the number-one spot for fundraising. 
"Last year, we were really encouraged by the positive at­titude and willingness of the student body to make the drive a success," said Derengoski. 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
ment fever.' We're so close, now we have to give it every­thing we can." 
Green Bay, 11-7-3 and ranked eighth in the Great Lakes Region, is coming off a two­game skid which broke a six­match win streak. Like the Irish, the Phoenix tied Wiscon­

.. ;PJJII!fl/ 

Sally Derengoskl 

"Now the important thing this year is to get students involved to raise money for an ab­solutely super fund." 
Proceeds from the flag foot­ball event will be applied to the Marc Buoniconti Fund as part of the Miami Project To Cure Paralysis. 
In the fall of 1985 Buoniconti, then a linebacker for The Citadel, suffered a severed spinal cord while making a routine tackle, and he became paralyzed from the neck down. Marc's father, Nick, a former standout linebacker for Notre Dame and the Miami Dolphins, has endeavored to tackle paralysis for a loss ever since that tragic play. 
Buoniconti has arram!:ed for national publicity of his son's injury in order to raise funds for expanded research into dis­covering a remedy for spinal paralysis. The Miami Project has found that regenerated nerve cell growth may some­day restore movement to pre­viously disabled persons. 
According to Beth Loden, program coordinator of the event, USF&G Flag Football promises to accomplish two main goals this year: to raise money for the research project and to raise public awareness about the needs of the disabled. With over 100 universities signed up, the drive figures to collect up to a quarter million dollars. 
Since Notre Dame, Auburn, and Cal-Berkley all scheduled their programs for the same weekend, Loden expects the drive to capture local and na­tional media attention on Nov. 
12. The publicity will include a 

video  news  release  of  Nick  
Buoniconti's  visit  to  Notre  
Dame.  - 

"Notre Dame, being such a well-thought of university, has the potential to hold a premier tournament," said Loden. "The average age that people become disabled is 19. That's why this event belongs on a col­lege campus." 

sin earlier this season. 
This senior class, which also included midfielders Kurt Roemer and Tom Gerlacher in past seasons, represents Grace's first complete recruit­ing class and established the base for upgrading the Notre Dame soccer program. 
"I don't even want to think about it," Grace said when asked what the team will be like when this class graduates. 
Three of the top seven career scorers at Notre Dame come from this group. McCourt is third with 109 points, Sternberg right behind with 101, and Mor­ris is seventh with 86. Kevin Lovejoy, a 1981 graduate, tops the list with 153 points. 
IRISH ITEMS: Despite losing to Notre Dame 5-1, Boston Uni­versity moved up a notch to 19th in this week's ISAA Coaches Poll ... Three injured players are questionable for Wednesday's match. Steve LaVigne missed the last two games with a sore ankle, Danny Stebbins reinjured his ankle and Mitch Kern suffered a leg injury at Florida Interna­tional. 

Tiger 
continued from page 20 
name than "Tiger" to describe McCourt on the field, but it doesn't seem to fit the Granger, Ind., native's personality. 
Most South Bend area high school and youth soccer players know McCourt from the soccer camps at Notre Dame or the dozens of games he referees for the Michiana Soccer Association each sum­mer. 
"I enjoy teaching camp and working with the kids," said McCourt. "I'm kind of quiet off the field, but when I'm playing in a game, I'm a totally differ­ent person. It's sort of a mean instinct which comes out as ag­gressiveness." 
His parents, Bruce and Carol McCourt, also are very active in the soccer community, hel­ping to organize the annual Fourth of July tournament 
which raises funds for the 
Notre Dame soccer team. The 
McCourts were introduced to 
Irish soccer by former Irish as­sistant coach Hank Hofman, who coached Tiger's club team. 
McCourt's high school coach, Tom Van Meter, also helped steer McCourt on a path which included a year at Holy Cross Junior College before entering Notre Dame. Now the Saint Mary's soccer coach, Van Me­ter couldn't be more pleased with the progress of his former player. 
"It's a pleasant surprise to see all the hard work pay off for him," said Van Meter. "The more I'm around him, the more I'm in awe of what he's accom­plished. He's kept a level head about what he's done, espe­cially the way he still works with the kids. He's still willing to do things in the community to help with soccer." 

Belles 
continued from page 20 
NCAA Division III teams, and Saint Mary's, an NAIA school, showed that its talent is com­parable with that level. 
Szweda and Ellen Boyle are the only two seniors on the team, giving the Belles a strong nucleus for next year. 
The Belles accomplished the three goals they set for them­selves at the beginning of the season, which were to have a 
winning season, the most wins 

"This was the best soccer of a Saint Mary's soccer team, since I have played here," said and to beat the Division III senior Anne Szweda. schools they played. 
... 

Wednesday, November 2, 1988 
page 16 The Observer 
Hall of Fame lists 16 players, coaches 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Mass. Four backcourt stars--Dave Bing, K.C. Jones, Earl Monroe and Lenny Wilkens--were among 16 players, coaches and contributors nominated Tues­day for the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
Rounding out the nine players nominated for the February election were frontcourt stars Dave Cowens, Walt Bellamy and the late Larry Foust and two women, Ann Meyers, a standout at UCLA, and Nera White, an AAU all-star from Nashville, Tenn. 
Three coaches also were named by the screening com­mittee which is headed by Hall of Farner Bob Cousy. They are Jack Hartman, who has the best winning record in Kansas State history; Jack Ramsay of the Indiana Pacers, who has posted 15 winning seasons during a 20-year NBA career that has made him the win­ningest active coach in the league, and Will Robinson, who 

>'*"~.., tf¥41 ~It 4~"1< 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A ~portsw~lters meeting will be held today at 8 
p.m. m the office of The Observer in the third floor of LaFortune. Any questions should be directed to Marty Strasen at 283-1471 or 239-5303. -The Observer 
The NVA scuba meeting, originally scheduled for tonight, has been moved to Wednesday, Nov. 9. The brief informational meeting will be at the Rockne Memorial room 218 at 6:30 p.m. Classes will start the following Sunday. 
-The Observer 

The NO crew team will hold a mandatory meeting for all novice members in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall tonight at 7:30. Those unable to attend should call Mike Hammett at x3223 or Karen Doty at 284-5146. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team is holding signups for anyone wanting to play on the team. Those interested must sign up on the roster and show proof of insurance at the NVA office by today. A team meeting will be held shortly after the roster deadline. Any questions should be directed to John Kirk at 289-1124. -The Observer t-­
Items 

continued from page 20 
When I came here as a fresh­man that was all there is to hold on to. Either it was that or lis­tening to Gerry Faust brag about what "fine citizens" his 5-6 Irish would be. 
Sophomore year came a breath of fresh air in the form of Lou Holtz, The Wit and The Wizard, The Coach and The Comic. And what a difference that 5-6 season was from the previous year. 
Then came last season and a return to "the big top," peaked by Tim Brown's Heisman chase and a Cotton Bowl berth. 
And now it's here. 

The Irish are no longer just in the big top, they're at center ring. No.1 in the nation and the top team on the bowl commit­tees' New Year's wish list. 
Notre Dame's recent ascen­sion in the polls and national prominence signifies a return to the glory days. This is what we will tell future Domers about. This is what Fighting Irish football is all about. 
Winning football games. 

But lets remember there are four reasons not to get carried away. 
RICe, Penn State, Southern Cal and a Jan. 2 opponent. 
OK--three reasons. 

When the Irish basketball team upset top-ranked North Carolina two seasons ago, NBC broadcaster Dick Enberg remarked that "if you can't be number one, the next best thing is to beat No. 1." 
Everyone wants a piece of the nation's top team. We did on October 15, and so will Rice this weekend. Then Penn State will have the same thing in mind later this month. And so will Southern Cal. 
Let's not get complacent. Let's not rewrite history yet. 
"Nothing has changed," noted Lou Holtz in yesterday's press conference. "There is not seven points on the board before we start. It's not like we get an advantage." 
Holtz is right when he says that nothing is different, really. Notre Dame's football team is the same group of guys it was when AP ranked it No. 13 before the Michigan game. 
The desire to put the football in the end zone and hit people, not a glorious past, is what has won eight football games and that is what is necessary to win four more. 
Then we can start editing Wake Up The Echoes. 


The NBA regular season 
··-····---~~£~ 
Wb IL
AP Photo 

gets underway Friday, featuring some 
familiar faces In new places. Above, Kurt Rambls, long-time LA. Laker, Is now playing for the Charlotte Hornets. 
Stipanovich to miss 20 games 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Center Steve Stipanovich, who missed only seven games in his first five years in the NBA, will be out at least the first 20 games this season because of an ailing left knee. 
An arthroscopic examination showed the problem to be iso­lated in the bone and not the joint structure. 
"I think it's good news," said Pacer general manager Donnie Walsh, "because we know more now and we know how to deal with it. Still, until I hear otherwise, we're looka­ing at six weeks (recovery time)." 
Stipanovich underwent the examination on Monday. He apparently had received a hard blow that caused blood to stop supplying nutrients to the knee, causing the soreness, Walsh said. 
Before the arthroscopic sur­gery, doctors weren't sure whe­ther the irritation was in the joint or in the bone. 
"My understanding is that the bone is the lesser of the two problems," said Walsh. "If there had been something wrong in the joint surface, that would have been major (similar to the injury that ended former Pacer Clark Kel­logg's career). but it's not that. 
"The question now is whe­ther you just rest it or go ahead with a surgical procedure that could speed up the recovery 

llXA]ON~ 

~~FINAL!> OF"ffiR.:: QA'( 100RNV 
7:oo-ct:oo: VARt;rrY ~ LOCATION: "THSO PO~S DE~: C~lS ~ \SAM C.~5AT\VIlY 
8:00J> IO:IS \ MOVJ:: ' SL;;;PaN6 BSAOT'I' 
L-oQiiiON; (.l)St-\IN6 Aut>\TOR.IUM CD5T: $1 

'-----------~~ --~-~--------------------~---~­
Wednesday, November 2, 1988 The Observer page 17 
NCAA suspends 
wEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 2ND 
Red's Sabo named 

IS ~
ND • 
ARE YOU??! 
~ 
~ 
~ 

t • 
Prove it.
I 
~ I ~ 
I • 
~ 

1• ~ Donate your Rice ticket * so developmentally ~ ~
: • disabled adults can be there when ND wins t • this Sat. ~ 
~

• 
: • It's up to YOU to prove it's not just our 
•football team that's *1 ! 
*Drop off student tickets at the Center for Social Concerns ~ 
~ 

• or dining halls until Sat., Nov. 5 I • 
.... 

-Committee said the investiga­tion which uncovered the vio­lations at Kansas was started 
nc::>e::>cx:>c=~=<::~eocx:::~oe~::>c:~oc=c~eo=-:~oc=c~e~::>c:~oc=c~eo=-:~e<=<:~eocx=-c=e<~ by telephone call from a "con­fidential informant" dealing with the recruitment of a
ALCOHOL AWARENESS 
"highly visible transfer student-athlete.'' Reports have linked former
WEEK 1988 
Memphis State guard Vincent Askew to the probe although the NCAA announcement did not identify anyone. Askew was recruited by Kansas and then­coach Larry Brown and spent 
MRS. LONISE BIAS 
(MOTHER OF THE LATE LEN BIAS FROM THE 
the summer of 1986 on campus. He then returned to Memphis
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND) 
without playing for the Jayhawks. Brown is now coaching the San Antonio Spurs of the NBA.
"SUBSTANCE ABUSE ON 
Milt Newton, a senior for­ward and key member of the
COLLEGE CAMPUSES" 
squad that beat Oklahoma 73-89 in last April's NCAA title game, 
]RlOHlO&UDDER 
])the-E 
om ~.p 


ALL :ADvE;JZt:'LSir)oi'AiD rOt\"'0"( ALUn]l)i-Sc()IOZ.. C,LU[) Diego Padres had 11. Damon ~e<=c~e~~~e<=c~eo=-:~e<=<::loOCX~~~~~~~=<:>e::>cx=-c=~=c:~eocx:::~oe~e~~• Berryhill of the Cubs and 
NL Rookie of Year 
MONOGRAM ROOM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Third baseman Chris Sabo, who batted .271, hit 
11 homers and drove in 44 runs for the Cincinnati Reds, was named the Jackie Robinson Na­
JOYCE ATHLETIC AND 
CONVOCATION CENTER 
tional League Rookie of the Year Tuesday by the Baseball Writers Association of 
America. 
Sabo received 79 points and 11 first-place votes from a panel of 24 writers, two from each NL city. First baseman Mark Grace of the Chicago Cubs was second with 61 points and right-hander Tim Belcher of the Los Angeles Dodgers was 
7:30PM 
BXCtbus 
third with 35. 
AQWORKS 

Ron Gant of the Atlanta Braves had 22 points and Roberto Alomar of the San 
Kansas basketball
I 

Associated Press 
MISSION, Kan. -Kansas, the 
1 

defending national college bas­I ketball champion, was put on a three-year probation Tues­1 day by the NCAA for recruiting violations and will not be al­l lowed to defend its title. 
In addition to being barred from postseason play in the first-year of the probation, the 
• Jayhawks will not be allowed 
' to have paid campus recruiting visits in 1989 and will be stripped of one scholarship1 during that period. The NCAA also ordered the school to "show cause" why it should not be penalized further if it fails to disassociate three unnamed boosters from the program "based upon their in­volvement in violations of NCAA rules." The NCAA seriously consid­ered imposing the most ex­treme sanction--"the death penalty" --which would have shut down the basketball pro­gram for an entire year. Only Southern Methodist's football 
I program has felt the wrath of that punishment. 
1 
"Kansas was on the bubble, so to speak," said David Berst, 
l assistant NCAA director for en­
r forcement. "I'm sure there was a lot of discussion on that 
I point, but no severe violations involved any of the players who were on the team. It was a tough decision." The report by the Infractions 
broke down weeping during a news conference on the Lawrence, Kan. campus and left the room. He returned a few minutes later to say the probation "hit me like a ton of bricks." 
"I thought I wasn't going to be seriously affected by it, but I am," Newton said. "We still have a couple of goals to shoot for, like winning the conference and the Big Eight tournament. I think it will make us play harder." 
Kansas officials who com­plained about the delay in deciding the case had no idea the program stood on the edge of the death penalty. 
Berst said the delay was caused partly by deliberations on whether to give Kansas the death penalty. 
But instead of being the second school to get that penalty, the Jayhawks become the first NCAA basketball champions prohibited from defending their title. 
"Because we believe the uni­versity effectively presented its case, and we believe the NCAA committee gave us a fair hearing, we will not appeal," Bob Frederick, athletic direc­tor, said at the campus news conference. "We are obviously disappointed with the penalties but we accept them. It's time to put the past behind us." 
Kansas must make annual reports on action it is taking during the probationary period to bring its program into com­pliance with NCAA rules, in­cluding a full audit of athletes' summer jobs. It also must make annual reports on wages and salaries paid to players employed in university sum­mer camps and camps operated by the school's ath­letic staff. 
The NCAA said violations in­cluded improper inducements with a total value of at least $1,244 to the unnamed recruit, including clothing and airline tickets. 
Kansas could still play in the Big Eight postseason tourna­ment, which decides the con­ference's automatic qualifier to the NCAA tournament, if other Big Eight schools agree to it. 
Gregg Jefferies of the New York Mets were tied with three points each and Ricky Jordan of the Philadelphia Phillies had two. 
"I'd rather play for wins than personal awards and all that stuff," Sabo said during the season. The Reds finished second in the NL West for the fourth consecutive year. 
Sabo stole 46 bases, tied for fourth in the league and the most for a Reds rookie since Bob Descher's 54 in 1909. 
Sabo hit 40 doubles, third in the NL behind Andres Galar­raga's 42 and Rafael Pal­meiro's 40. Sabo was the only rookie to play in the All-Star Game and did it before the 
hometown crowd in Riverfront Stadium. But his performance dropped in the second half of the season. 
_________________......,._____________________ 
Wednesday, November 2, 1988
page 18 The Observer 
'The little things' earn Culver a ch8nce to play 

Freshman fullback scores first touchdown 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 

Rodney Culver believes the little things often count the most. 
Whether he is gearing up for the football season or planning his future, the freshman run­ning back from Detroit, Mich. likes to be prepared, which means mastering the fun­damentals. 
"Everybody at this level has talent," observed Culver. "When I was recruited (by Notre Dame), they told me that I had a good chance to play, but I had to work hard and learn the fundamentals. When you execute the little things right, things begin to come to­gether." 
And come together they have for the 6-0, 212-pound Culver. In four games for the Irish this season, he has carried the ball 20 times for 140 yards, a spec­tacular 7.0-yard average. He scampered 36 yards for a touchdown against Purdue, and last week broke off the left side for a 22-yard touchdown run in Notre Dame's 22-7 win over Navy. 
"As soon as (quarterback) 
Tony (Rice) handed me the 
ball, there was a lot of space 
there (on the left side of the 
line)," recalled Culver. "All I 
had to do was run. People were 
saying that I had to use some 
ability (to score). Maybe when 
I got to the ten, one or two guys 
hit me, but then I slid off. 

"It was wide open. All I had to do was one spin move, and 

,_ 
Rodney Culver 

tney teach us that every day in practice. The minute I saw that goal line, I wasn't going to be denied. I knew I wouldn't get too many more chances this year." 
Irish backfield coach Jim Strong asserts that Culver will have plenty of chances to prove himself this year, a tribute to his strong work ethic. In fact, Culver was switched to ful­lback from strong safety ear­lier in the year to exploit his many talents as much as to shore up an oft-injured back­field. 
"I think Rodney Culver's found a home at running back,'' said Strong. "We had him at strong safety at first. He was an excellent defensive back in high school, and when we brought him in at running back, we had a need in the secondary so we put him over there for awhile. 
"One day, we were having a goal-line scrimmage and Co­ach Holtz put Rodney in at run­ning back. He had a chance to do some things to catch Coach's eye, so we've left him there since that particular time." 
The various position changes were nothing new to Culver, who played on both sides of the ball at St. Martin de Porres High School in Detroit. A three­year letterman in football, bas­ketball and track, Culver per­formed at running back and defensive back for a team which won the state champion­ship during his freshman 
season. 

He compiled 1,548 yards rushing, including 20 touch­downs in his senior campaign. He also caught 12 passes for 147 yards and an additional three touchdowns. Defensively, he made 57 tackles and inter­cepted three passes on the year. 
Culver chose to attend Notre Dame for its long-term educa­tional benefits. He feels its the best place for him, and the sit­uation on the football field might be best for Culver as well, learning from veterans Braxton Banks, Anthony Johnson, Mark Green, and Ryan Mihalko. 
"I used to get corrected a lot," admitted Culver, "and I was wondering sometimes, 'What's wrong with these guys?'. They were so intense. They used to tell me, 'Don't worry, you'll get used to it.' They want us (the freshmen) to be very efficient in what we're doing, to get the job done. They helped me learn the sys­tem here." 
Stage is set, but Owls· doubt outcome will be tragic 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Rice corner­
back William McClay says the 
stage is set for the winless 
Owls' game Saturday against 
No. 1 ranked Notre Dame. 

It's being cast as a tragedy by oddsmakers, but McClay ex­pects the Owls to give a com­mand performance. 
"I don't think they'll take us lightly because they've seen the films and they're well­coached," McClay said. "But I don't think they'll be prepared for what we'll bring up there." 
The Owls will take along the nation's longest losing streak, now at 14 losses, but McClay was referring to the inspired performances the Owls have turned in against heavy odds the past two weeks. 
"There's no telling what fate holds for us," McClay said. "The stage is set. It's just a matter of us going out and get­ting a few breaks. We've just been inches away for so long." 
Rice, 0-7 this season, will 
catch the Fighting Irish just as 
Ranking 
continued from page £U 
Louisiana State in his first 
game as head coach. But the 
Irish lost 25-7 to Michiian the 
following week. 

The last time Notre Dame 
played in Notre Dame Stadium 
as the top-ranked team was in 
1970 against Georgia Tech. 

But none of that matters to 
But before any of the veteran players would help Culver, he had to first earn their respect. His solid special teams' play impressed both the veterans and the coaches. 
"We expect most freshmen to contribute to the kicking game," said Strong. "Ifthey're going to come in and play as freshmen in the first place, they're going to have to do a great job on special teams. Rodney's done a good job on special teams, and I think that's just a carryover to the fullback position." 
Culver shares more than just special teams responsibilities with his fellow freshmen. Ac­cording to Strong, Culver also makes his share of mistakes. 
"Like any young player, he's made a lot of mistakes that young players make in execut­ing the assignments," said Strong. "I think the one thing Rodney's shown is steady im­provement. He's been able to make the corrections that we've seen in the actual game films, and transfer that over the following week and not 
make  the  same  mistakes  
again.  
"He  has  excellent  work  

habits, and he's a very coach­able young man. He's the guy that goes out to practice and works, and you can see a little bit of improvement in Rodney Culver every day." 
Culver would have it no other way. 
they have been elevated to the and elevated Quentis Roper Berndt said. Watching film of No. 1 spot in The Associated into the starting quarterback's the Irish signal-caller at work Press poll. job. is not fun. 
Rice hasn't won a game since it defeated Southwest Texas State 38-28 Sept. 26, 1987, and the Owls haven't had a winning season since 1963. 
"There's a lot of desire on our 
part," McClay said. "We don't 
have a lot of great players so 
it's a matter of us being a great 
team. 

"We go out every week against Texas A&M, Arkansas and now Notre Dame, and everyone expects us to get blown away. It's a driving force for us." 
The Owls have lost to the Texas Aggies 21-14 and 11th­ranked Arkansas 21-14, much closer margins than expected, the past two weeks. 
The Owls have shown im­provement since Coach Jerry Berndt closed workouts before the third game of the season and pulled a quarterback switch. 
He moved starting quarter­back Donald Hollas to defense 
Holtz ana nis quest for the 1988 National Championship. 
"Nothing has changed," Holtz said. "There isn't going to be seven points on the board before we start. It's not like you get an advantage. : . It's not like you're allowed t. have two fumbles and they're going to give the ball back to you. It doesn't mean anything. It just gives somebody something to talk about and somebody some-
Hollas has helped solidify the defense and Roper has prospered at quarterback. 
"We're playing now the way I felt we could play so it's not surprising to me we played well against A&M and Arkansas," Berndt said. "I'm more surprised we didn't play against Indiana and USL (Southwestern Louisiana)." 
The Owls haven't been em­barrassed but they have kept losing and again they will be heavy underdogs against the Irish. 
Berndt expects another physical game similar to the one they played against the Aggies. 
"They're a very physical football team on both sides of the football," Berndt said. ''They can run over you or they have the speed to get around you." 
The Owls' biggest worry will be quarterback Tony Rice, 
thing to write about. 

"I'm exactly the same today as I was when I woke up yes­terday," Holtz continued. "The players are the same. We're not bigger; we're not stronger; we're not faster; we're not go,ing to change our uniforms. If you start worrying about No. 1 and think you're special and try to defend it, I think the pres­sure would be tremendous. There's enough pressure on our players." 
"Tony Rice is a super ath­lete," Berndt said. "He came out on a play against Miami and he turned the wrong way, realized his mistake and still made 8 yards and a first down. That's what he can do." 
Notre Dame needs to beat Rice and Penn State before a 

'l11e College orScience Disiil1guisl1.ecl Scll.olcu­LecttJl-e Series 
November 3rd 8:00 PM Galvin Ufe Sciences Auditoriw11 (Room 283) 


~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~~~ 
showdown with Southern Cali­fornia, ranked No. 2 this week. 
But McClay hopes the Owls 
can spoil the matchup.  glamour  
"How  often does  the  last  

place team in the Southwest Conference get to play the No. 1 team in the nation?" McClay asked. "It's an opportunity to make up for four years of bad luck and missed chances." 
I 

Wednesday, November 2, 1988 The Observer page 19 

.CAMPUS 
12:1o-1:00 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
1:00 p.m. Soccer: ND vs. Wisconsin-Green Bay, Moose Krause Stadium. 
7:00 and 9:15p.m. Graduate Student Union Film Series, "Roots." Library Auditorium. Each showing will be followed by a discussion. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
9-10:30 a.m. "Rhetorical Form in the Historiography of Phi­
losophy," by Prof. Mark Jordan, ND Program of Liberal 
Studies, Room 131 Decio. 
12 p.m. "Men and Women Migrants in the 19th Century and Their Image of America," by Prof. Dirk Hoerder, University of Bremen, West Germany, Library Lounge. 
3:30 p.m. "Multigrid Calculation of Complex Fluid Flows," by Dr. S.P. Vanka, Argonne National Laboratory. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4 p.m. "Crisis and Change in Haiti: A View from the United States Congress," by the Honorable James Oberstair, Wash­ington, D.C., Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Pasta Bar Savory Baked Chicken Fried Catfish Beef Enchiladas Chix Fried StealvGravy Spinach CrepesCheese Sauce Oriental Pita Supreme Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Buzz McFiattop 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Inside: Comb. form
1 Chore 26 Extend a5 Heroic poetry 

subscription9 "By the-­
28 Prince Charles's 

early light ... " 
in-laws 14 "The Time 
32 Swampy area Machine" race 35 Half or third of a15 Part of Boone's dance 

gear 36 Author Segal 
16 Indian, e.g. 38 Subway rider's 
17C.-­
aid

Parkinson, of Parkinson's Law 39 --ha-Shanah 19 Famed hostess 41 "--Last of yore Night," 1986 film 
20 Parlor piece 43 Defeat narrowly, with"out"
21 "--but known. 44 Loosen a lacet 
23 "You're the 46 Menachem --,"Porter Begin's tune one-time group 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
48 "Turn left, Dobbin!" 49 Bailey of comics 51 Nine-sided figures· 53 Attain 55 Cpls.' bosses 56 October beverage 58 Hoppe's game 60 Systematic design 64 Corporate I D's 66 Pakistan's locale 68 Mode 69 Dashiell contemporary 10 Carry on 71 Orbital point 72 Arabian gulf 73 Jeux de mots 
DOWN 
1 Hamilton bills 2 Tub plant 3 Kind 
11 Charles 31 Disdain 52 Scale note Kingsley novel 54 Book before 
4 Mitten loser of 33 "Cosmos" rhyme 12 Western alliance author Joel 56 Part of T.A.E.
5 The King of 13 Ginger follower 34 Gushes forth Siam's sentence 57 Chicago area
18 Therefore 37 Sci-fi writers' 
ender 59 Parliament
22 Rep.'s opposite awards 
6 P.G.A. man member 
25 Klipspringer's 40 Writer Shere 
71naugural 61 Birthright seller 
cousin

highlight 62 Sen. Bosch­
27 Modern 42 At. no. 74
a Opera supe's witz's state 
artist-designer 45 Slips by 
prop 63 Diner sign 
28 Second-stringer
9 Ball masks 47 "Of course!" 65 Armand's 29 Ring up 50 "The Name of the affirmative one-pointer 30 Bunny's largess Rose" author 67 Diminutive suffix 
The Far Sldtt Gary Larson



Mike Muldoon 

• 
..... 
Sports 
Wednesday, November 2, 1988
page 20 

Despite polls, Notre Dame not yet No.1 with Holtz 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 

Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz held his weekly press conference in the Notre Dame Stadium pressbox Tues­day, the day after his Irish were named the country's No. 1 team, because the WNDU television studios were booked. 
So it was in this setting, perched majestically above the field on which he has guided his 8-0 squad to 10 con­secutive home victories, that Holtz tried to dispel the notion that the Irish are the best football team in the nation. 
"The most important thing is that it's 
.. 
difficult to stay on top," Holtz said. "But we're not on top. We just hap­
pened  to  receive more  votes  than  
anyone else." Notre Dame  received  those  votes  

after Washington State upset then top­ranked UCLA 34-30 this past weekend, while the Irish earned a lackluster 22-7 victory over Navy in Baltimore. 
But polls mean very little to Holtz. They always have. 
"If the polls were accurate, they wouldn't have to vote every week," Holtz said. "They vote every week be­cause they're not right. It hasn't been very good luck for Florida State, it hasn't been very good luck for Miami and it wasn't very good luck for UCLA. I don't like being No. 1 at this time of the year. I like to be No. 1 on January 2." 
But the Irish are No. 1, at least in the polls, and now the question is how well the team will handle its spot at the top. After Notre Dame hosts Rice on Satur­day and then takes a week off, the Irish finish their schedule with a home game against Penn State and a visit to USC, which currently holds down the No. 2 position in the Associated Press poll. 
Holtz cited tlie Hertz Rent-A-Car com­pany, which uses the "No. 1" theme in its advertisements, as an example of how a team should handle its top billing. 
"I don't know why everyone gets ex­cited about the thing," he explained. "I don't notice anyone jumping up and down at Hertz Rent-A-car when I check out a car... We just have to prove that we're the best team--not in the country­-but on the field on the given Saturday." But players, students and fans are getting excited about the latest poll, and with good reason. This is the first time Notre Dame has been ranked No. 1 since 1985, when Gerry Faust beat 
see RANKING, page 18 

Irish host Green Bay -in final home soccer match 
Last hurrah for 'Tiger' 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 

Much is at stake besides an NCAA bid when Notre Dame's Bruce "Tiger" McCourt plays his final home soccer match against Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
It marks the last time Notre Dame soccer fans will get to see six senior players, includ­ing McCourt, the team's No. 3 all-time career leading scorer. 
"A lot of people associate Notre Dame soccer with Tiger McCourt," says Irish coach Dennis Grace. "Everything that has happened to the pro­gram the last two years is a credit to all our seniors, but it would not be there without Tiger McCourt." 
The four-time MVP at St. Joseph's High School in South Bend has started all but eight games for Notre Dame in his career. His career point totals include 45 goals and 19 assists. 
More impressive than his to­tals is the number of times McCourt has scored against the 
Seniors try to extend careers 
Seven seniors will play in their final home soccer match today at 1 p.m. when Notre Dame hosts Wisconsin-Green Bay at at Krause Stadium. 
Forwards Bruce "Tiger" McCourt, Randy Morris, Joe Sternberg and Pat Murphy, midfielder Joe Sternberg, stop­per John Guignon, wingback Danny Gordon and ·keeper Kevin Mayo all will try to keep the team's hopes alive for an NCAA bid in this critical match against the Phoenix. 
The Irish will have a prime opportunity to impress the selection comittee this weekend at the Midwest Collegiate Conference Tournament, the field for which includes No. 3 St. Louis and No.4 Evansville. 
"If we lose to Green Bay, we can forget about this weekend," says Gordon. "A lot of the guys have 'tourna­
see SENIORS, page 15 
top teams in the country, from his goal in a 1-0 upset of North Carolina-Charlotte in 1986 to his game-winning and game­tying goals against Indiana the last two years. 
"Tiger was the first one to step up and score on the top teams in the country," noted Grace. "In the last two years, we've only lost six games, all to ranked teams. I wouldn't trade Tiger for anything." 
McCourt is one part of a deadly offensive duo on the Irish front line which has played together for three years. Randy Morris is Notre Dame's career assist leader, thanks in part to his work with McCourt. 
"That's one of the things about being together for so long--we know where the other person is," said Morris. "Tiger has a knack for the goal. In games that the opposition thinks they have him covered, before they know it, there he is scoring. He just has a knack for being in the right place." 
There isn't a better nick-
see TIGER, page 15 
Belles end fall seasons 
Soccer records best-ever 10-6-1 record 
By JANE SHEA Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's soccer team ended its season with back-to-hack victories this past weekend, bringing its record to 10-6-1. 
After a five hour bus ride the Belles defeated the College of Wooster 1-0. Trish Troester scored the goal from a Greer Gilliland cornerkick. 
In the first half the Belles were sluggish, but ~ept the game even. The players did not lose their composure and were able to hold on for a win. 
"We were a bit ragged after our bus ride," said Head Coach Tom Van Meter,"but we had momentum coming off a win." 
With 10 minutes to go in the game the Belles came alive and scored the winning goal. They controlled play the rest of the game. 
Sunday the Belles played Oberlin College and again had trouble getting into the game. Play in the first half was even, but Saint Mary's controled the second half. Troester again scored the only goal in the team's 1-0 victory. 
"We played better as a team in the second half," said Van Meter, "and were able to gain the upper hand." 
Oberlin and Wooster are both 
see BELLES, page 15 
Volleyball places 6th at SMC Invitational 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
A young Saint Mary's volley­ball team ended a tough
• 
rebuilding season this weekend as it hosted its own Invitational Tournament at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles posted a 1-3 record in the two day tournament and finished in sixth place. Madonna College, a newcomer to the tournament, beat defend­ing champion Michigan­Dearborn in an intense final match to capture first place honors. Siena College took Franklin College to three games before it finally cap­tured third place. 
Seven teams representing the four state region of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio participated. 
The Belles had a tough tourn­ament draw as their first two matches had· them facing the top two teams. They lost the first two rounds to Madonna and Dearborn, respectively. 
The Belles bounced back though with a sound perfor­mance against Defiance Col­lege in round three. This vic­tory boosted them into the semifinal round where they drew a bye. 
Advancing to round six, Saint Mary's met a tough St. Xavier team. A 10-15, 8-15 loss left the Belles with a six place finish overall. 
"I was disappointed we didn't reach all the goals we set but we did gain valuable playing experience," com­mented head coach Sue Med­ley, "Next season we should start with a higher level of play 

The Observer I File Photo 
Bruce "Tiger" McCourt (above) and six other seniors play the last home match of their careers at Krause Stadium this afternoon against Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
Top ranking won't rewrite history--yet 
At 6:09 Monday evening the Associated Press officially announced that it had happened--Notre Dame is No.1 again. As leprechaun Ray Lopez said in yesterday's Chicago 
Tribune, "Its about time." 
Lopez was reflecting the thoughts of a student body which came to South Bend as freshmen and heard the legendary stories of past Irish heroes. Notre Dame fans love to boast about their football tradition, as they deserve to. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


Seven Heisman Trophy winners and 11 national cham­pionships. The greatest coach in football history who gave th~ most famous pep talk in sports history. Hundreds of stories about memorable games, including the game won for the Gipper and the pull-out-the-green-jerseys win over Southern Cal in 1977 which propelled Dan Devine's team on to Notre Dame's last national championship . 
Seventy-five years ago yesterday, Gus Dorias and Knute Rockne teamed up to use the forward pass for the first time anywhere as an regular offensive weapon. The ensuing 35-13 upset of powerhouse Army (that was a long time ago) was proof that Notre Dame had, in the words of the 1988 Football Guide, "made it to the big top." 
But these are all memories are just that--reflections upon the past. We've heard them from alumni and parents, read about them in programs and seen them in "Wake Up The Echoes'' 
see ITEMS, page 16 


