Mildly mellow
IACCENT: BCAF fashion show 
Partly cloudy today with a 
chance of snow and a high 
reaching into the 40s. Colder 
tonight with additional snow.
IVIEWPOINT: Avoiding apathy 


MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1988
VOL. XXI, NO. 95 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
•
Shultz, Shevardnadze report progress 1n talks 
Associated Press rebuilding program in Western Europe. 
MOSCOW-Secretary of State The spokesman, Gennady George Shultz and Soviet Gerasimov, said the moder­Foreign Minister Eduard nization program in NATO Shevardnadze claimed "good countries clashed with the new progress" Sunday in daylong U.S.-Soviet treaty to scrap talks on arms control, human intermediate-range missiles. rights and regional conflicts. Gerasimov said building new 
missiles with a range less than 
But a Soviet Foreign Mini­315 miles was "incompatible stry spokesman sharply with the strengthening of criticized the U.S. nuclear European security." 
Iranian group backs captors 
Associated Press was a CIA spy. U.S. and U.N. officials denied the charge.
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Iranian­Higgins, a decorated Viet­backed Hezbollah extremists nam veteran and a one-time clashed Sunday with Shiite military assistant to former militiamen searching for a kid­U.S. defense Secretary Caspar napped U.S. marine and Weinberger, heads a 76-man declared support for his abduc­observer group attached to a tors. U.N. peacekeeping force in 
A Hezbollah leader said he south Lebanon. He was kid­believed Lt. Col. William Hig­napped on Wednesday near the gins had been smuggled out of ancient port city of Tyre.south Lebanon. Hezbollah is believed to be 
"We declare solidarity with, the umbrella organization for and full support for, the strug­pro-Iranian groups holdingglers against America who con­foreign hostages in Lebanon. front the plots of the great Police said Hezbollah and Satan,'' said a statement from Justice Minister Nabih Berri's Hezbollah, or Party of God. mainstream Shiite Amal "The demands of the Organi­militia clashed in a brief 
zation of the Oppressed on firefight in the southeastern Earth are just." Lebanese village of Ein el­
The Organization of the Op­Tineh. No casualties were re­pressed on Earth on claimed ported.responsibility Friday for Hig­gins' kidnapping, charging he see KIDNAP, page 3 

Governors appeal for relief from red tape 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The nation's governors appealed to the White House on Sunday for relief from 163 federal rules and regulations and heard a former governor call for a con­stitutional convention to res­tore states' rights. 
New Hampshire Gov. John Sununu, opening the National Governors' Association's win­ter meeting, said that the time had come to press for a new division of authority between the states and Washington. 
"There has been an erosion of the fundamental balance struck 200 years ago in Philadelphia," Sununu, the NGA chairman, said at a news conference before calling the first plenary session to order. 
President Reagan was host­ing a black-tie dinner for the governors Sunday night, then inviting them back to the White House Monday to hear first­hand of their concerns. 
James Miller III, director of the Office of Management and Budget, told the governors the Reagan administration had carried out nearly 50 of 80 recommendations the NGA made 16 months ago to reduce red tape and administrative burdens on state and local gov­ernments. 
Eyeing the new stack of 163 recommendations, Miller said, "There's a lot more out there that needs to be done. It's hard to do." But he added, "There is no question that our federal system of shared power be­tween the federal and state governments . . . is healthier today than it has been in years." 
The governors heard just the opposite from former Georgia Gov. George Busbee, who warned, "We are about one recession away from a com­plete breakdown of domestic government in this country." 
Busbee, an Atlanta lawyer who governed Georgia from 
see FEDERAL, page 4 
The U.S. State Department both agreed we made good seventh-floor apartment. Sak­spokesman, Charles Redman, progress across the range of is­harov said serious Soviet dissociated the U.S. govern­sues," Redman said. reforms were under way but ment from the Soviet criticism. Shultz took an hour off to the country had not made 
Otherwise, both sides gave meet with noted Soviet dissi­enough progress yet on human extremely upbeat appraisals of dent Andrei Sakharov, who rights or on Afghanistan. the Shultz-Shevardnadze talks, wished him well in pressing for he said. human rights reforms. Shultz Sakharov was sent into inter­
"They both agreed without called the 1975 Nobel Peace nal exile in Gorky for almost any hesitation whatsoever that Prize winner "an inspiration" seven years in 1980 for speak­the atmosphere was excellent and a "model and symbol" to ing out against the Soviet mil-throughout the day, that they the world. were businesslike, and they They met in Sakharov's see TALKS, page 5 

Every man a king 
Although a freshman, Frank Timons reigns over the Weekend at Joyce ACC. The theme of this year's juniors from atop a float during Junior Parents JPW was "Mardi Gras." 


Gore looks forward to primaries 
Associated Press turf. Twenty states hold Dem­fallen on the Democratic race's 
ocratic delegates contests two winners to date -Richard 
DALLAS-After sitting on the then, including every Southern Gephardt, who won in Iowa, sidelines in Iowa and falling state save one. and Michael Dukakis, who won short of his aim in New Gore's strategy flies in the in New Hampshire. Hampshire, Albert Gore Jr. has face of the conventional wis­It's no coincidence that those two weeks to show that he, too, dom that, as in the past, to win two rivals were the ones Gore is a real contender for the Dem­the nomination a candidate in targeted with a flurry of barbed ocratic presidential nomina­either party must first score a attacks as quickly as the first tion. success in the earliest contests Southern debate began in Dal­
Gore, the Tennessee senator of Iowa and New Hampshire's las last Thursday. who has made much of his To disprove that thinking, Southern roots, long ago Gore must mount in the two Gore and his strategists have crafted a strategy for winning weeks before Super Tuesday a long contended he already had the Democratic presidential campaign that appeals "a ticket to Super Tuesday" be­nomination that is 100 percent broadly to Southern white cause Gore is from the South dependent on achieving a voters -since Jesse Jackson fig­and because he early on breakthrough on one day. ures to capture most of the decided to forego Iowa's 
That day, March 8, looms black vote. caucus system to concentrate large now that the race for the And Gore must do so against on the delegate-rich states that nomination has moved to his the attention that naturally has vote March 8. 

Monday, February 22, 1988 
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Thomas Shaffer, former dean of the Law School, will return to its faculty next fall as the first occupant of the Robert and Marion Short Chair in law. Shaffer received his law degree from Notre Dame in 1961. He taught at the University from 1963 to 1979, and served as dean from 1971 to 1975. Shaffer leaves a teaching position at Washington and Lee to return to Notre Dame. -The Observer 
' ' ' 

Of Interest · ··. ·. ··_ 
Thirtieth Annual Finance Forum will be held today in Room 122 of Hayes-Healy and Tuesday in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Robert Davis, managing partner of Crimson Capital Co., will discuss "Fundamen­tals Court in Buyouts," and Robert Welch, chairman of Landmark Financial Corp., will speak on "In the Private Industry." Both presentations will begin at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
"New Developments in Natural Family Planning" will be the topic of a presentation at 7:30p.m. in Room 222 Hayes-Healy. Mercedes Wilson, executive director of the Family of the Americas Foundation and internation­ally known expert in Natural Family Planning, will describe the natural methods. Classes in Natural Family Planning will begin on campus Wednesday. For more in­formation call 288-2662. -The Observer 
A logo contest is being held for the Collegiate Jazz Festival's thirtieth anniversary on AprilS and 9. The win­ning designer will receive $100 and old designs are avail­able for reference. Entries are due Feb. 29 in the Student Union Board office. For more information, contact Dave Thornton at 287-6575 or Kevin Mundy at 283-3797. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Ballroom dance meets tonight at 7 in Stepan. -The Observer 
An informational!organizational meeting will be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's for the London-Rome Summer Programs 1988. For more information, call Professor Black at 284-4460. -The Obser­ver 
Deadline for FAFs to reach the css is Feb. 28. Forms are available in the Financial Aid Office, Room 103 Administration Building. -The Observer 
Amnesty International will have a letter writing meeting tonight at 6:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. Amnesty's Human Rights Week for April will also be dis­cussed. -The Observer 
Studentfacultypaneldiscussion entitled' 'Diversity, What are We Mraicf Of?" will be held tonight from 6 to 
7: 15 in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans as a part of Di­versity Week discussions at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Sophomore Literary Festival continues at noon in the Hesburgh Library Lounge with a conversation with Josef Skvorecky. Marilyn Krysl will be reading at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, followed by a recep­tion in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. -The Observer 
Adlai Stevenson will present a lecture on "Democracy and Civic Virtue: From the Greek Ideal to the Modern American Reality," at noon on Wednesday, March 2. The presentation, sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government, will be given in Room 220 of the Notre Dame Law School. -The Observer 
Collegiate Jazz Festival needs workers for the festival on April 8 and 9. Ticket takers, stage crew, and many others are needed for all three sessions. Anyone interested should call Ken Schwartz at 283-1100 as soon as possible. -The Observer 

Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Sports Copy Editor........ Steve Megargee Design Assign Assistant ..... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge Typesetters .................. .......... Mike Buc Accent Copy Editor ....... Robyn Simmons ............................................ Smed Laboe Accent Layout............. Katy Kronenburg News Editor. .. .......... Chris Julka Photographer ..... Mike Moran Copy Editor ........................ Greg Lucas ND Day Editor ................ Beth Cornwell 
Tile OlleerYer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. Tile ObMner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptiom may be purchas­ed for S-40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile ObRnH, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olller<er is a member of Tile Aaodaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

ND commencements could get much worse 
Most of last year's Notre Dame commence­ment was formal and ceremonious. It was a little rowdy near the end, but it was nothing Jim like the chaotic graduation ceremony which took place at Georgetown University last May. Riley 
Notre Dame's ceremony began quietly. As 
News Editor

the band played and the choir sang, the black­robed graduates silently filed into their seats inside the Joyce ACC arena. Honorary degrees were presented. Dignitaries spoke. The hundreds of ND degree recipients waited polite­ly, quietly, patiently through the formalities. 
Then the conferral of degrees began. And the solemn scholars broke into bedlam. 
The graduate students and College of Science students jumped up and applauded themselves loudly as their degrees were conferred. As Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh prepared to confer degrees on the engineering students, seated to his right, the business majors on his left screamed "geeks" across the arena. Mter he conferred the degrees, the engineers also erupted in noisy celebration. 
Next, the students of the College of Arts and Letters celebrated their degrees with confetti, streamers, and a champagne shower from a shaken bottle. As Hesburgh was about to confer degrees on the business students, they lept to SW't. \\ovw-. their feet, sounding airhorns. The engineers drinking through five hours of ceremonies un­screamed across the arena, "Don't do it Father der a hot sun. Ted." But after joking that he was having The chaos was so great that the speaker was second thoughts, he went ahead and conferred barely able to talk over the noise. The platform the degrees. party was sprayed with champagne. Two fist 
Suddenly, the noise ceased as all fell silent fights broke out. One girl was rushed to the for the rest of the ceremony. hospital after being hit in the face by a cham­
A Northwestern graduate watching all this pagne bottle. said she had never seen such a rowdy gradua­This year, Georgetown students have sugges­tion. A Harvard undergrad said the loudest ted shortening the ceremony so there will be noise heard at a Harvard commencement was less time to get drunk. Others have offered to the unfurling of an anti-apartheid banner. encourage their fellow students not to drink. 
But Notre Dame's rowdiness paled next to But many students maintained that drinking the chaos which occurred during last year's was an integral part of commencement. commencement ceremony at Georgetown. Stu­Fortunately, few ND parents went running to dents there did more than just shower each the liquor stores between baccalaureate and other with a little champagne. They drank it. commencement to buy champagne for their Gallons of it. sons and daughters as G U parents did last year. 
The ceremony was held outdoors on a 90 And drinking isn't yet considered an integral degree May day. Fifteen thousand people part of the ceremony at Notre Dame. crammed into a lawn which was meant to hold But Notre Dame commencements are begin­10 to 12 thousand. They started drinking during ning to deteriorate along with those of high the baccalaureate mass that morning and kept schools and universities across the country. 
The broadening scope and under way to better prepare development efforts of these 
~ 
larger scale of human resoun::es be added in ceramics, glasses, For more iriformation: 
prepared to work: with a wide superalloys, advanced com-Dt:rAR.TMENTOFMATERJALSScn:NcE 
variety of materials. The posites, sophisticated processing ANoENmNEERING 
Occupational Outlook Hand-and analytical techniques. Built RooM 384 FmrATRICK H.w.
j 1 
lxd. U.S. Department ofLabor oo a strong base in unit)ing 239-5330 
·~<Q>~~<Q>~<Q>~~~~~<Q>~<.Q>~~~ 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 22, 1988 The Observer 
page 3 
Israeli troops kill two, Palestinians to protest 
Associated Press ficials said the man, Ahmed 
Abu Salhiye, in his 50s, died of 

JERUSALEM-Israeli sol­a heart attack after being over­diers killed two Arabs Sunday come by tear gas. in clashes in the West Bank. The latest deaths brought the Palestinian organizers called number of Palestinians killed for stepped up protests to coin­by ·Israelis since the protests cide with the visit of U.S. Sec­began Dec. 8 to 61, according retary of State George Shultz to United Nations figures. this week. Officials in the Economy 
The army said soldiers shot Ministry said the government and killed the Arabs in sepa­had spent $330 million to rate confrontations in the West finance the crackdown on the Bank city of Nablus and the protests. Israel's 1988 budget is Deir Ammar refugee camp. $31 billion. N ablus hospital officials said 17 Defense Minister Yitzhak Arabs were wounded. Rabin rejected demands that 
The army initially reported he issue specific guidelines to a third Arab shot and killed in soldiers to curb the use of ex­Nablus but later retracted the cessive force against Palestin­statement. Nablus hospital of-ian protesters. 
The Student Business Board 
(for Adworks, the Cellar, and Irish Gardens) 
is looking for a 
General Manager 
If You are Energetic, Entrepreneuiial, and Interested... 
We Want to Hearfrom You/ 
Job descriptions and applications are available at the secretary's desk, 2nd floor LaFortune. 

Not everyone is fasting during this traditional Christian hands a customer a heap of snacks from the Deli 
season of mortification, as sophomore Jim Cella Bar in LaFortune.-----------­

1;==H=a=p=py=19=th=B=irt=h=da=y=~ Kidnap 
continued from page 1


Tim Kalbas 
Hezbollah militiamen opened 
Love Mom & Dad 
machine-gun fire on an Amal 
patrol near the village in the
Mol, Mo, & Bri 

western sector of the Bekaa valley and the patrol fired back rocket-propelled grenades, said a police spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity according to regu­lations. 
When the 30-minute clash ended and the Amal patrol left, Hezbollah gunners pounded Is­rael's self-designated security zone in south Lebanon with mortars, the spokesman said. 


If you need 
•


cop1es, you need

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
kinko•s®


FRESHMEN 
creat copies. creat people. 18187 State Road 23 

·····················~··············································· 
271-0398 

EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION A PROGRAM FOR FRESHMEN WHO WISH TO LEARN MORE· ABOUT A MAJOR IN BUSINESS 
A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY 
ADMINISTRATION 


6:30 P.M. 
STUDENTS, FACUL TV &STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your


TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1988 
relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 


ROOM 122 

WHEN: October 9-11, 1987 November 20-22, 1987 January 22-24, 1988

HAYES-HEALY BUILDING 
• March 25-27, 1988 

CONTACT: Cqmpus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242 
SIGN UP


FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
DEADLINE: ---=M::..:..=.:a:..::..:r::;_C=h=--4-=-------­


FRESHMEN 

COST: $15.00 
OfFICE OF 
-
(?MPUSMINISTRY 


page 4 The Observer Monday, February 22, 1988 
tial candidates are talking of new federal initiatives in such
Security Beat ~ Federal areas of traditional state con­
Thursday, Feb. 18 

10 p.m. A Breen-Phillips Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from Section 8 the Joyce ACC Arena. Her loss is estimated at $61. 
10:50 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a minor traffic accident at the E c k Pavillion. There were no injuries and damage was minimal. 
Friday, Feb. 19 

5:15a.m. A University employee reported the theft of a golf cart from the Howard Hall archway sometime between 4:40 and 4:55 a.m. 
8:35 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of the trunk lock cover from her car while it was parked in the Stepan Basketball Courts. The larceny occured sometime between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Feb. 18. Damage is estimated at $30. 
12:09 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her train case from her vehicle while it was parked in the B2 Lot sometime between 10:15 a.m. and 8:15 p.m. on Feb. 17. 
2:10 p.m. A University employee reported a larceny from the language lab office i n O'Shaughnessy Hall sometime between 3:45 p.m. on Feb. 18 and 11:45 a.m. on Feb. 19. 
5:30 p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of cash from her unlocked room sometime between 2:50 and 3 
p.m. Her loss is $15. 
5:30 
p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of her wallet and contents from her room sometime between 12 and 

5:30 
p.m. on Feb. 13. Her loss is estimated at $25. 

5:30 
p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of a gold ring from her unlocked room sometime between 7 p.m. on Feb. 13 and 5 p.m. on Feb. 19. Her loss is estimated at $400. 

5:30 
p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of a gold necklace from her room sometime between 4:50 and 5 


p.m. Her loss is estimated at $40. 
6:15 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a minor traffic accident which occured at the Douglas Road entrance to 
Saturday, Feb. 20 
1:10 a.m. A Lorain, Ohio resident reported the theft of a radar detector from his vehicle while it was parked in the Cl Lot between 9 p.m. and 12:30 a.m. on Feb. 19. His loss is estimated at $200. 
I: 15 a.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported that a suspicious person was seen inside of Sorin Hall. Notre Dame Security escorted the suspect off of University property. 
Sunday, Feb. 21 
3:00 a.m. A St. Mary's student reported that she was assaulted on campus by a ND student that she knows. The woman was not injured. 
II :02 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a minor traffic accident on Juniper Road at the Library Circle. 

ED HILL 
LOVE, 

RATTlY A 

continued from page 1 trol as education, welfare, eco­
nomic development and cri­1975 to 1983, urged the gover-minal justice. nors to press for a constitu-"Begging Congress or the ad­tiona! convention "to break the ministration to pay attention to gridlock, sift through the blue federalism is, in my opinion, a smoke and mirrors and restore waste of time," said Busbee, a a sense of order and accoun-Democrat. "Governors and tability in American govern-legislators are not treated ment." much differently from the 'Na-
The federal government is tional Association of Ball Peen raiding state and local revenue Hammer Producers'-except sources and dumping unfunded that (they) have a PAC mandates on the states, Busbee (political action committee) said..~....B:nd most of the presiden-and you don't." 
~~~~~------~,~~-~~~----~l

~~The CO: -~c1
~-. . '... -.· ' op ·•' ·. . . . :.\!~;··\· 
:-. ~ 
~ UIC's ~ ! MBAConsider the benefits of your M~
'-! from U I C. '-! 
! A ~rogram that works ~ith you:! '-! Gam management expenence '-! ~ while earning a salary through ~ ~ co-op. You'll enhance your resume and ~ ~ you could land a great job. Excellent teaching~ ~ and research in 11 concentrations comple-~ ~ ment your co-op learning experience. ~ ~ A dynamic location for learning and ~ 
:;1111 living: Chicago's exciting business environ-:;1111 ~ ment is in our front yard-and our backyard. ~ ~ Our campus is easily accessed by car and ~ ~ public transportation. ~ ~ A valuable alternative: Chicago's only ~ '-! state-supported, AACSB-accredited MBA '-! ~ program helps you reach your goals without ~ ! losing your shirt ! '-! For details, '-!! write or call 312-996-4573. ! 
'-! ~ L'AkRSHY '-!


I ~~~~ I
! !
The MBA Program (M/C OTT) ~ College of Business Administration ~ '-! Box 4348 '-! ~ Chicago, Illinois 60680 ~
Mo.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,. 

You Want A Great Display Of Portable Power? 


The Zenith Data Systems Z-183 Laptop PC 
suggested retail price: our price only: 


$3599.00 $2050.00 

The Zenith Data Systems Z-183· PC gives you all the power of a desktop in a lightweight, laptop PC. Plus it 

Demo Lab 9-12 M-F
features a dazzling blue backlit LCD screen for great readability. Along with 20 megabyte hard-disk with 


Room 113 Computing
single floppy drive for expanded storage. And you'll get longer battery life than with most competitive, 


Center -x7689
hard-disk laptops. Added to this, are some important extras ... Like service and support you can count on. As an 

Fourway Computer Prod. authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll help you configure your new system. Give you a full demonstra­
Brad Koch 277-7720 tion. And match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs 

7'*"" I~ferns 
have been met. 

AUTHORIZED DEALER So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 
© 1987, Zenith Data Systems 

----------------------------------------------~-----------· --­
Monday, February 22, 1988 The Observer 
Court seeks mercy killer's name 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-One of the na­tion's leading medical journals is headed for court in what may be its most serious editorial controversy -the publication of an anonymous article by a doctor who described commit­ting a mercy killing. 
The Cook County state's at­torney's office wants the name of the doctor, but the Journal of the American Medical Associ­ation, citing a state free-press law, says it will be in court Monday seeking to quash the subpoena. 
Letters to the journal have been about evenly split on whe-· ther JAMA should have printed the anonymous essay. 
It's not the first time in recent years the 105-year-old journal, the official publication of the country's largest organi­zation of physicians, has found itself in a clash over its con­tents. 
In 1984, a U.S. army medical expert charged that AMA offi­cials killed a story he had sub­mitted on smoking so they could win favor with politicians in tobacco-growing states. 
Two years earlier, the jour­nal was accused of publishing an article on heart medicine to placate a major drug company that was an advertiser. 


+ ·=· 
,("·~ :: :: ::")..
'.,\,j._, :: :: .,_.,._;; 
:· 
. 
+ ::::: ·=· :::::
~ 
,("-~ :: :: ~").._
'.,\,j._, .. .. ..;:_;,..J 

HOLY TOLEDO! T.G.ROCKET LEGAL FOR FUEL LOAD THAT WILL MAKE 




81STI BIRTHDAY 

AREAL BLAST!!!! 
• + 
. ::::: ·:· ::::: 
00 .. " 
~ 
......n. 
JAMA officials denied the 
charges in both cases. 
The latest case involves the 
broader issues of press 
freedom and mercy killing. 
In the Jan. 8 essay, titled, "It's Over, Debbie," a doctor described injecting a lethal dose of morphine into a woman dying of ovarian cancer. He wrote that he did not know the patient, but was asked to check on her and moved by her plea of "Let's get this over with." 
AMA officials said they did not verify the incident but believed it was based on fact. They said the author had re­quested anonymity. The essay did not indicate where the doc­tor lived or where the incident occurred. 
Last week, the Cook County state's attorney's office served JAMA with a subpoena order­ing it to name the writer of the article. 
AMA attorney Kirk Johnson said the journal would not com­ply. JAMA officials said their attorneys would file a motion Monday to dismiss the sub­poena. 

~~cQ>~cQ>cQ>~~cQ>cQ>~
i con#nued from page 1 


The Observer I Mike Moran 
Portrait of a legend 
In the tradition of such masters as Walt Disney and the illustrators of Marvel Comics, junior Patrick Atagi sketches a warrior wielding thunder­bolts for his Basic Drawing class at Riley Hall of Art and Design.

TaI k s 

.­
~~======~~==============~J:==cQ>=~=====<Q><Q'>==~=======cQ>======-:: 





HEY SAINT MARY'S! 
ARE YOU LISTENING MEET YOUR CANDIDATES for student body and class office at an election debate in Regina 
North Lounge. Be there to hear the answers on current issues at Saint Mary's. 
BE INFORMED BEFORE VOTING 
•

7pm In Regina North Lounge 

t. An TOStaJ §§ 
§


!§ Logo Contest 
. 

Logo due Frl·. feb.26
l 
§
§

§ at SUB office by 3:00 
~ 
L 
itary intervention in Afghanis­
tan. 
The treaty to ban U.S. and 
Soviet missiles ranging from 
315to3,125mileswassignedby 
President Reagan and Mikhail 
Gorbachev at their summit 
meeting in December in Wash­
ington. The treaty is now before 
the U.S. Senate and the Su­
preme Soviet for approval.
Gerasimov said the Soviets were eager to see the treaty placed in force and had begun withdrawing short-range mis­
siles from East Germany and 
Czechoslovakia. But he rejected assertions by U.S. of­ficials that the Soviets were holding back on a date for the next summit meeting until the treaty was approved. 
that there is some sort of link,"
"We never stated directlythe Soviet spokesman said. Reagan and Gorbachev agreed to meet in Moscow but 
did not set a date. Redman said the two sides were considering "the general time frame of 
mid-May or early June." 
Redman said holding a sum­mit did not depend on complet­ing another treaty to halve the superpowers' arsenals of long­range bombers, land-based missiles and submarines. 
Negotiations in Geneva have slowed down over ways to verily the cutbacks and over the U.S. program to develop an anti-missile defense in space. 
Shultz discussed verification procedures with Shevardnadze. A joint state­ment is to be issued after talks Monday with Gorbachev. Shevardnadze is expected to deal with the problem and also compliance with the 1972 Anti­Ballistic Missile Treaty, which the Soviets say prohibits much of the U.S. "Star Wars" pro­gram., 


Correction 
The results of the Senate District 3 run-off were incor­rectly reported in Friday's graphic. The correct results were 452 votes for Mark Chapman and 436 votes for 
Matt Thiel. 
-




Viewpoint
page 6 Monday, February 22, 1988 
•

Knowledge comes 1n questioning 
Too often in our world today, people are simply content to sit back and listen to everything told to then:t without even thinking about raising a· possible ques­tion or two. The problem with this lack of questioning is that a select few are put in influential positions of power, facing no opposition to what they say or do. Who is to say that everything these select few say is true and unques­tionable? Actually, no one is. Granted, there are certain facts which should, or at least can, remain unquestioned. But in an attempt to gain more knowl­edge, all of us should avoid apathy and complacency by questioning as much as possible. 

Rob Hahn 
guest column 
The now classic confrontation be­tween CBS anchorman Dan Rather and Vice President George Bush is an ex­cellent example of the need for ques­tioning. CBS News surely thought it was important enough to take a good amount of time out of the newscast to question Bush; the interview took nearly half of the actual news time during an evening newscast. America has the right and should want to know what role our own Vice President played in one of the largest covert operations exposed during the last de­cade. 
Sometimes aggressive reporting is the only way to achieve answers to such difficult questions, such as the one sur­rounding Bush's involvement and knowledge of the Iran-Contra affair. The questions Rather presented during the interview were legitimate. In fact, many others have asked those same questions. Take, for instance, James Gannon, editor of the Des Moines Reg­ister. When he questioned Bush about the Iran-Contra affair during a debate involving Republican candidates for president, Gannon was faced with criticism. Instead of giving a simple answer to the question, Bush criticized the manner in which the Register had covered the whole affair. 
The response to both the Rather con­frontation and the Gannon questioning was greatly in favor of Bush. This is a very sad commentary on the American people. Instead of wanting to know answers, in this case answers to politi­cal questions, many people find it much more convenient to criticize the press and others for asking tough and some­times disturbing questions. These same people apparently would prefer a stance of ignorance and allow those in power to do as they please without any form of "checks and balances." 
Many philosophers would also agree with the need to question. One philoso­pher in particular has set forth a hy­pothesis stressing the need to question. 
W.K. Clifford states: "It is wrong al­ways, everywhere, and for anyone, to believe anything upon insufficient evidence." The only way proper evidence can be obtained is through thorough questioning. Clifford adds: "No simplicity of mind, no obscurity of 

Doonesbury 

station, can escape the universal duty of questioning all that we believe." He says that those who do not question in a quest for sufficient evidence are hur­ting themselves and those around them. 
Everyone is taught numerous differ­ent things throughout a lifetime, whe­ther it be inside or outside of the class­room. The problem is that so many people take so much they are taught to be true without even thinking about questioning those beliefs. Leo F. Bus­caglia, in his book, "The Way of the Bull," notes that, "during the years of my life I have been schooled by our society in many things. Mostly, I learned and never questioned." He then added that after some thorough ques­tioning, "it soon became painfully ob­vious that much of what I had been taught had served as the greatest deter­rent to joy and finding myself ..."This shows how much one can miss when there is an absence of questioning in one's life. Take a moment to consider how much you and I have missed, be­cause we have failed to ask questions and open our eyes. 
The need to question exists every day, and no one is exempt from that need. Through investigation, we in­crease our awareness of the world around us. Sometimes our questioning may prove fruitless. Yet for those times something new is learned through ques­tioning, it is well worth the effort set forth. If you disagree with this need to question, then go ahead and believe without question that the Chicago Cubs will win this year's World Series, that Elvis Presley and the Beatles will play live in concert at the Joyce ACC this year and that Richard Nixon will be the next President of the United States. 
Rob Hahn is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 


1 P.O. Box Q 
Letters can affect S.African injustice 
Dear Editor: 
The current upheaval in South Mrica has raised consciences around the world; yet to many the reality is thousands of miles away and quickly leaves the minds of those distanced from the conflict. The media often portrays the struggle as impersonal by reporting of the masses. However, the following incident is an attempt to bring the situation into a more intimate con­text. 
On Aug. 5 or 6, 1986, Mutile Henry Fazzie, the vice president of the Eas­tern Cape Regional Structure of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in South Mrica, was arrested by South African security police at a road block near New Brighton Township. Accor­ding to Amnesty International, he is believed to be detained under emer­gency regulations at St. Alban's Prison in Port Elizabeth. Mr. Fazzie was con­sidered a moderate influence in the black community and sought to resolve black grievances through negotiations with the apartheid business communi­ty. 
As a result of this concern and in­volvement, he and Mkhuseli Jack, an-
Garry Trudeau 
other UDF leader, were issued five­year banning orders in March 1986 which restricted them to Port Elizabeth. These orders received much criticism abroad and from white South Mrican businessmen. This outcry not only led to the lifting of Mr. Fazzie's and Mr. Jack's bannings, but it initiated the invalidation of all banning orders in South Africa that same year. Mr. Fazzie has significantly contributed to the blacks' liberation. His wife, Ethesia Buyiswa Fazzie, also suffered arrest and joined him in prison in December 1986. They both are detained without trial. Amnesty International reports that Mr. and Mrs. Fazzie are believed to be victims of torture and ill­treatment at a security police detention in Port Elizabeth. 
Amnesty International will be writing letters to South African govern­ment officials today, Feb. 22, urging the immediate and unconditional release of Mr. Fazzie. If the facts and realities of this case have heightened your concern for those suffering injus­tice in South Mrica, I encourage you to join us tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. One letter can make all the difference. 
Mary Budde Farley Hall February 19, 1988 
QI::4Y... I{)(). YaJ KNOIU IUHY~ 
I MeAN, EJUA/JS/3 I 8&L.I&V/3 
IF YOU WE'VE EJI.JilTA ReAL 7HIN/<.. fO(JN!JA7lON OF 
zm TRJJST, ' 
REA/7t... lJON'T 
\ YOU~ 
Y&s,Y~ GOO/?. HERE IGU/395 /A/13-GO.I[)(),.. 
\ 
\ 
REAOY 57UN

OH,BO't 
Gl/N~

OH,BOY.,. 
0 
"" 

"Joy is the echo of God's life in the soul." 
Unknown 

Editorial Board Operations Board



Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... Kevin Becker Bus;ness Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor... ........ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dsme, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

News Editor..... . ................... Chris E!tednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .... .. .. ... ... . ..... ... . . Jim Ailey Production Manager ...................... Melissa Wamke The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Viewpoint Editor . . . . . ........... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Sports Editor ................................. Dennis W'r1gan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton the administration of either institution. The News is reponed as accurately and objectively as 
Accent Editor ............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Ms Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor... . ............... Jim Carroll is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 



Accent

Monday, February 22, 1988 
page 7 
Soap update 

An angry Miss Ellie gets tipsy on 'Dallas' 
All My Chlldrem After fan­ing. Sonnl told Josh that she tasy visits from Nick and her and Will were planning a father, Erica finally was surprise party. Sonni ready to return to Travis; pretended to be pregnant. 
she married him. The judge Will secretly decided to kill sent Nlco to prison where he Josh. Coming: Wedding confronted Creed and Ross. plans are ruined. Nico spurned Julie's offer of Knots Landing: Under pres­help. Coming: Tension sure from his business as­erupts in jail. sociates to gain control over 
Another World: Reg bribed a Lotus Point, Charles asked judge to let him see Abby to elope. Mack had an Elizabeth's safety deposit angry confrontation with box. Michael found the box Frank. Patricia took off on a 
key inside Elizabeth's watch secretive journey. Coming: and beat Reg to the Johnny's schemes grow evidence. Reg then tied up more dangerous. Donna and held Michael at Loving: Stacey discovered gunpoint. Cass and Nicole more incriminating evidence dated. Sam found his mot­about Jack and Lily. Ava her at his apartment after consulted a lawyer to see If Amanda invited her to the her marriage was legal. wedding. Vicki saw Lisa Fearful of harm from Clay, kissing a thug. Coming: Ava took drastic measures. Vicki makes the most of her Dan pushed Jim to continue news. with Carrie. Jim recalled As The World Turns: Emily being a priest. Shana op­lost the baby. A guilty Hol­posed a hypnosis session den felt newly bound to his which would reveal the marriage, while Emily tried double agent. Coming: Jim to but couldn't tell him is torn by his memories. about the baby's father. Paul One Life to Live: Bo ex­covered for. Andy's drinking. plained that he divorced Dldi Barbara feared reprisals in after she left him for an­

Models show off their 'Fashion Savvy' 
TAMRYN ETIEN accent writer 
T
he only thing in this world that separates the men from the women is the ability to do a .360 in Nike sneakers versus flve inch heels. 
It is the world of Fashion Savvy, The world brought to Notre Dame Saturday night by the Black Cultural Arts Festival (BCAF) at the South Bend Cen­tury Center, 
Sixteen st1.,1dents from the University of Notre Dame strutted their stuff (and the stuff from participating local clothing merchants) to the latest in funk music Their dancy, highly choreographed presentation dazzled the stand­ing room only audience for nearly three hours. 
Because of the bad weather, the 8:00 performance got off to a late start. but It was a perfor­mance worth waiting for. 
Emcee Jocelyn Allen, a Notre Dame freshman, told the audi­ence to let go of its inhibitions; it was entering the world of fashion savvy--the world where the innocent would become sensuous, where the tame would answer the calls of the wild, and the free of heart would see the elegant and elite. 
The first hour of the show was dedicated to "In Leisure" where the models showed that stone washed denim is still the rage and can be worn a num­ber of ways, leather is "hot" and bright cotton in solid colors is "cool". 
The models' versatility was 
shown by presenting their fas­
hion sets in a number of ways. 
The audience saw all sixteen 
models on the stage only in 
the opening. The T-shaped run­
way was indeed overflowing-­
not only with the hottest in fas­
hion, but with the some of the 
hottest looking men and wo­
men on Notre Dame's campus. 
Senior model Yolanda McCul­
lum has been in the show for 
four years and choreographed 
much of this year's presenta­
tion, Other female models in­
cluded Michele Cage, Lois Con­
rad, Vivian Croswell, Danielle 
Duchatellier, Robin Holley, 
Tracy Lowery, and Frances 
Shavers. 
The male models included 
Calvin Allen, Lionel Coleman, 
Ray Dumas, Mark Green, 
Everett Jackson, Andre Jones, 
Cornelius Southall, and James 
Suttle, 
In the first part of the show, there was very little hope for the men to catch up with the women who played hard to get. But they gave in for the second set "In Business". These up­and-coming young urban professionals showed that double-breasted suits and matching silk ties and hankies are the wave of the men's fu­ture, as well as skirted long 
jackets for the women. 
The third and fourth sets, "In Elegance" and "In Twilight", gave the lighting crew a chance to strut its stuff and music co­ordinators a chance to slow it down, 
Despite a few musical gaps, covered skillfully by the models who just made their own music, the first half of the 
show went rather well. 

A student band, The Groove, entertained the audience during intermission, keeping anybody with an ear for good music from going to the bath­room. Models Lois Conrad and Michele Cage, also band mem­bers, captivated the audience with a very good rendition of Sade's "Sweetest Taboo." 
The second half of the show 
ended well--but the beginning 
left a little to be desired, A rep­
resentative from Denderah's, 
an Indianapolis designer, 

showed that her ability to em­
cee was not near her abi'lity to 
design. 

The second half was again plagued with minor music problems, but this time the models were not given the chance to make their own music. Instead the Denderah's representative announced her dismay by exclaiming "oh, please" and "we'll get it to­gether in a minute." 
Her avante garde line was far from avante garde, while her oriental line was as oriental as the shag carpet in my living room. I did enjoy the burlap jacket in her oriental line, which was quite avante garde. 
When emcee Jocelyn Allen reclaimed her chair, the perfor­mance reclaimed its validity, in my opinion, as a good student effort to display the talents of some of the men and women on campus, and the exciting clothes of the some of the South Bend clothing mer­chants. 
prison.Coming: The murder 
case is reopened. 

Dallas: Miss Ellie shocked 
everyone by flying Into a 

drunken rage after seeing 
Clayton with Laurel. Clayton 
was unable to win back his 
wife. J.R. and Kimberly's 

sch,eme to rid themselves of 
Sue Ellen backfired. April 
revealed a startling confes­
sion to Bobby. Coming: The 
custody trial begins. 

Days of Our Lives: Jack lost 
his kidney after falling from 
a roof and was put on 

dialysis. Kayla decided not 
to press rape charges. Eve 
was attacked by a slasher 
while going to see Nick. 

Frankie realized that Emily Is 
Eve. In Peru, Roman and 
Justin botched a plan to 
save Serena, Diana was 
arrested for murder after 

trying to deliver the ransom 
money. Coming: Roman to 
the rescue, again. 
falcon Crest: Melissa 

r~ected her long-lost Uncle 
Frank,. who turned to Angela 
for help. Maggie and Rich­
ard's Carribbean honeymoon 
didn't tum out as planned. 
Emma sought revenge 
against Richard, blaming 

him for her friend's death. 
Coming: Richard foils 

Eric's plans. General Hospital: Steve took a few steps. Simone col· lapsed while trying on her wedding gown. Scott com· forted Robin, who finally expressed her grief and fear. Tony forgave Lucy after Charlene intervened. Colton showed skill as an evan­gelist. Anna put a clue in the note Grant told her to write to Scorpio. Grant bought dynamite. Coming: The survivors emerge. Guiding Light: The man from Chelsea's past arrived 
just as Phillip was propos· other man. George admitted to Bo that he drugged Oakie. Clint was Intrigued when Ginny Fletcher, a ringer for Viki, arrived in Buchanan city. Cody rescued Clint from a lynch mob. 
Llta left Milagro at the convent. then was accidentally killed by Rolo. Cord found Rolo, but not the baby. Coming: Clint eludes his rescuers. Ryan's Hope: Dakota was hit by a car but suffered a few broken bones; Dee felt re­sponsible. Chaz and Ryan enjoyed a date. Sherrl planted evidence against Emily. Art Muller's goons shot Dakota and knocked down Johnny, who had a heart attack. Coming: Johnny's price for loyalty. Santa Barbara: Mason went for help after he, Julia, Tori and Jason were stranded in a mountain cabin. But Mason was injured and taken to the hospital in a coma. Sophia went to T.J. for comfort after seeing Pamela embracing C.C. 
Cruz, Eden and Cain stowed away on a boat to Mexico In pursuit of Andrea. Andrea was arrested and stalked by a killer in jail. Coming: A race against time. 
The Young and The Rest· less: Traci accused Brad of betraying her by working with Lauren on the fund raising memorial. Phillip told Nina he refused to accept paternity. Amy reached a dead end in her investiga­tion of Cricket's father. Steven agreed not to tell Ashley about Leanna's his­tory. Coming: An eventful birthday party. 
1988, McNaught Synd. 



Mardi Gras 
'88 


Monday, February 22, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
USA hockey team falls 4-1 •
Spprts BriefS 

' 

c knocked out of medal hunt 
Cheerleadingandleprechaunhopefulsshouldattend an organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium of the JACC. Requirements will be addressed and applications distributed. Instructional clinics will be held the following Monday or Thursday evenings. Proof of insurance is necessary for clinics. For more information, call John Romney (272-8718) or Marge Ball (4068). -The Observer 
Men's BookstoreBasketball sign-ups will be Sunday, February 28 from 12-4 p.m. All students and faculty mem­bers are invited to play. There is a $5 entry fee. Any questions, call Mike at 1962. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The ND wrestlers lost to Central Michigan 27-12 on Friday night at Central Michigan. Tomorrow's issue of the Observer will have details of the dual meet. -The Observer 
Steve Pate earned his second victory of this year's PGA tour by taking the Andy Williams Open on Sunday. 
-Associated Press 
Associated Press 

CALGARY, Alberta-The United States lost its offense and its chance at an Olympic hockey medal Sunday night in a 4-1 defeat to a West German team it had to beat by two goals. 
The loss was a bitter disap­pointment for the Americans, who were seeking vindication in the Olympics after finishing seventh at Sarajevo in 1984. Now, they must win a final game in the consolation round just to match that finish. 
The Americans fell behind 2­0 early in the game and never could catch up, their high­powered offense bottled up by a smothering defense and West German goaltender Karl Fries­sen, a former member of the NHL new Jersey Devils. 
In its entire 60-game exhibi­tion schedule, the U.S. team was held to one goal only twice, and it had scored 26 goals in four previous Olympic games. 
When the offense was needed the most, though, the offense failed. 
The U.S. outshot the Ger­mans 34-23, but scored only on Scott Fusco's goal early in the third period with West Ger­many already ahead 3-0. 

The Americans ended the preliminary round with a 2-3 record, the two victories com­ing against the only winless teams in the same pool, Austria and Norway. 
The Americans started at a disadvantage, needing not just to win but to win by two goals under Olympic tiebreaking procedures for the final berth in the medals round. 
As it turned out, that calcula­tion never entered the picture as the West Germans jumped to a 2-0 lead on goals by Dieter Regen and Ron Fischer in the first period and clinched it on 
third-period goals by Peter 
Obresa and Roy Roedger. 

West Germany killed off 3:33 of a four-minute power play with six minutes to play as the United States got off only three shots before Scott Young was called for slashing to end the man advantage. 
It could have been worse. 
With the Germans up 2-0 in the first period, U.S. goalie Mike Richter deflected a penalty shot by Roedger and then made a kick save on him. 
The Americans had their chances in the first period, but came away empty-handed largely because of Friesen's goaltending and their own bad luck. 
A shot by Jim Johannson hit the crossbasr, and a shot by Corey Millen was stopped on a brilliant glove save by Friesen. 
In the second period, the West Germans appeared con­tent to play defense, and they played it well, keeping the 
Americans off the scoreboard despite being outshot 11-5. 
l'leo..wrNotre o.meoffice, located on the thinS floor of Lafortune Stu· dent eem., eccep\11 claaalfied edvwtlalng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through F~. n.o..wrSaint Mwy'1l office, located on the thinS floor of H-oo-Collge Center, accepts claaalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through F~. Oeedllne lor next-08y claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds musl
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:tw.cters per day. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2IT-2724 NIGHT; 2IT·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1849 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Terrle'a Typing 287-1283 WORD PROCESSING, LASER PRINTER, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, CAN SAVE ON DISK, FOOTNOTES, RESUMES. 
Get ready lor Spring Break by selling unwanted class books lor $$$ at Pan· dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open 7 days' week 1 0·5:30. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 2IT­
45014 
woFio.PR.ociissiNMY'PiNci.'....cAi:i 
PAT 234-5528. 
Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the near vicinity lor SPRING BREAK!!! Can leave any day. Will share expenses. Please call Missy 271-0868 

' LOST/FOUND I 
IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. 
I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­INGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII without my brown leather gloves I left in 120 O'Shag on that cold Wednesday 1oth 2:oopm. II found, please call £1763 soonlllllllllllll 
LOST--A Hewlett Packard calculator. II you've found one please call Bill at x­1620. 
FOUND RACQUETBALL RACKET COVER IN PW MON 211 5. CALL £2737 TO CLAIM 
REWARD FOR LOST GOLD BRACELET(round).IT WAS LOST ON TUESDAY FEB 16, AND A GOLD HEART SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO IT. TO MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE, A PRESENT FROM MY BOYFRIEND. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4178. THANK YOU 
Found: some chick's glasses on the path up from the Grotto to the Ad Building. You're myopic and probably can't read this, but il you still want them, they've got scratched lenses. a clear round frame, and seriously need some tape to hold them together. Call 3204 or 3206 andasklorBill, Dave, or Matt "The Beast' any time this weekend to clllim (or stop by 3321.334 Holy X Hall). 
TO THE PERSON WHO INADVER­TANTLY PICKED UP OR FOUND MY BLUE VUARNET SUNGLASSES AT CAREER & PLACEMENT PLEASE RETURN THEM TO KATIE AT CAREER & PLACEMENT OR PLEASE CALL SEAN £2265 OR £2283 ·NO QUESTIONS ASKED SPRING BREAK WON'T BE THE SAME WITHOUT THEM!!IIII 
................................................................ 
LOST: PURPLE AMETHYST EARRING in Library Auditorium. Call BETSY-­£2IT31 
LOST THURSDAY 2/IM!B 2 KEYS ON A STAR SHAPED PAPER CLIP NEED THEM BACK REAL BAD. 271-0758 ................................................................ 

FOR RENT 
I 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-Q955<255· 3684 
4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR­HOOD.475 MO. CALL 2IT­9097.0THERS AVAILABLE 

WANTED 
Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. Sponsored by the I.U. Club of Notre Dame. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Aala. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtsee­lng.Frae Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92825. 
CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­ING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT­ING INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM­PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS OF CHICAGO. IF INTERE.STED SET UP AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: CAMPUS PAINTERS 2901 CENTRAL STREET EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 312-251-0151 
• • • RIDE NEEDED • • • To Minneapolis weekend of Feb 26th. Will share expenses. Call Jane at 284· 
4411. 
Wanted: tour riders to anywhere in Florida, during spring break if interested call •4095 
NEED RIDE TOFROM OR JUST FROM MD SPRING BREAK WILL GO TO D.C., BALT,OR LOWER PA MARK 1422 
Wanted: 4 tun people Anyone looking lor a ride to anywhere in Florida during Spring Break call Jim £4085 
DAYTON Ride needed 2-26-:v.!B.Call Lisa 2685. 
GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd like a ride any day you're going. Shared expenses. Call Missy 271-0868 or leave message wtoommate. 

FOR SALE 
HELP I CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 
21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI· ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. 
FREsfi·····Eii.Aci<·····w:.\i:f.jiJ;:·····Meiirs 
(WHILE THEY LAST). $5 LB. CALL BETTY AT 239-5604. 
································································ FOR SALE: ONE PIEDMONT TICKET ROUNDTRIP TO ANYWHERE IN THE CONT. U.S. $225 OR BEST OFFER. 
~~-~~--~:.~.~--~~~-~~..~-~~~~..~~~:.~~~­

I TICKETS 
I NEED 4 GA'S TO VANDERBILT GAME CALL WENDY X4114 
WANTED: 2 TIX FOR VANDERBILT GAME Call Krlstl 291-9640 
I WANT YOU TO SELL ME EITHER 2 VANDERBILT OR 2 MARQUETTE TICK­ETS. CALL MARC AT 268-7105. THANK YOU 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA'S-Mike 1699 
Hey ya'll !4 gorgeous blondes from Van· derbilt are still coming up lor the game II We'll trade one of them lor TICKETS to the game, or we'll pay BIG MONEY lor them. Call Pat at 277-7571 NOW. GO VOCE GO I 


PERSONALS 
CPA ... CPA ... CPA ... CPA ... CPA ..CPA ... 
CPA ... CPA ... It's on its way ... 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. 
································································ 
Last Chance For Spring Break '881 Limited space remains at South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal­ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado lor skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchase Tours toll free 1-BOG-321-5911 lor reserva­tions and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted. 
YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College 
P.0. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. 
Sanibel Sanibel Sanibel 
································································ 
TO WHOEVER TOOK THE SPORTS IL· LUSTRA TED OUT OF MY MAILBOX ON 2/13 OR 2/14: PLEASE RETURN IT-­INTACT--IMMEDIATELY. NO QUES· TIONS WILL BE ASKED. THANK YOU. JOE MC., 306 BROWNSON P.S.I HAVE WITNESSES 
HELP I I NEED A RIDE TO BALL STATE. CALL LIZ AT 284-5282 IF YOU CAN HELP. 

Have a Coke While studying the CPA 
LEENE & MARY B. 

2 of the neatest gals we knowl 
Happy Birthday 

We LUV youi·-T&C 
Ever heard of NATURAL FAMILY PLAN· NING? This a~ernative to artificial con­traception is SAFE,HEALTHY,EFFECTIVE and MORALLY ACCEPTALE.Learn mo re tonite at 7:30 pm Hayes-Healy room 222 where Mercedes Wilson,expert in the field will talk. For into on class starting Wed on campus call 288·2662. 
Kelly Do you take cream and sugar with that coffee? 
An ObseiVer 

WE, THE JANITORS IN THE LAFOR­TUNE BUILDING, DO OUR BEST AS A TEAM IN KEEPING OUR BUILDING IN GREAT CONDITION AND COOPERATING WITH ONE ANOTHER AND WE'RE PROUD TO SAY THAT WE ARE JANITORS OF LAFORTUNE. 
'' KATHRYN HUMM " " KATHRYN HUMM " Thank you for your patience, indecision has left, enjoyment ahead. --Bellboy. 
MR. LA ··Goodluck in NEW YORK. Knock there socks off, but keep yours clean; I'm probably going to have to bor­row them. 
What's Important... I'll give you 30 minutes to tell me how brilliant you are 
But remember 86·83 Brilliant¢ 3 
ZOINKSII 
KRISTEN CARTY, JUST WANTED TO TELL VA 'WE MISSED YA THIS WEEKEND!" LOVE, THE POLLOCK DOWN THE HALL 
JEANNE STIENBRONN (M.D.) CON­GRATSIIIIII I KNEW YOU COULD DO IT 
SOPHOMORESIII FEB.25 IS SOPHO­MORE 
MOVIE NIGHTT AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA. BUS LEAVES MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00. GOOD MORNING VIETNAM SHOOT TO KILL HOPE & GLORY TICKETS ARE $3-0N SALE AT THE CLASS OFFICE M, T, W, T.(2ND FL. LAFORTUNE) 
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOP· 
HOMORES SOPHOMORE MOVIE 
NIGHT 

AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA 
FEB. 25-TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE 
CLASS OFFICE ALL WEEK-$3 
GIVE MISS LUDWIG LIP ON HER BIRTHDAYII HAPPY B-DAY KARENI Raggedy Ann D. OK, I promise, no more cheap, hall-dead flowers. Just be careful; you might get 
what you asked lor. 
.............................................................. 
Hey Chipper, Chicago was so much fun the first time, we must do it again. One night just isn't enough though ... would you like to go to 
senior formal with me? Francis 
P.S.·Bring the ones with the little red hearts on them. 
MARGARET COX LIKES BALD MEN I 
DON'T FORGET YOUR TICKETS FOR PURLIEI 
Things I'll miss about the office: L.S.'s static cling. Things I'll miss: everything that's GRAP­HIC about LS. LS, where ART thou? 
Forever in blue jeans. 
Things I WON'T miss about the office: 
Last week (Wacke Week) 
OOOOOOOOOOO,BABY ..... you KNOW what I likelllll ..... CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING ..... You guys are the II 
GRACE-GATE '88 E Is it over, or just beginning? 
Lookout New York, the man's been a broker. He's Been A Broker! A BROKER I He's also a victim. 
The next time we have a date, it will be a the Wake. It's a good thing that we don't see each other lor awhile. It will be good lor us. We will grow. Are you busy Thursday? 
NEED RIDE to and from Greencastle to Depauw lor weekend of Feb. 27. Will share driving and expenses. HELPII x1155 ·David. 
To the girl at the last Zahm hockey game who was there to see the goalie.There is a game tonight.Hope you'll come. 
BILL SULLIVAN We sure wish spring would hurry up and get here ... we miss seeing your beautiful legs! 
Kendra bear: Thanks lor the Valentine! You're the best copy-editor in town. · Scott 
It just wouldn't be Wednesday night with· out Bernadette and Kate Bush -what a combol Congratulations to both ol you on your riew ObseiVer power trip. Re· member "Impress People, Work for the ObseiVer." ·The Stick with Me Kid 
••••••• Congratulations ···•••• CHRIS BEDNARSKI Winner ol Friday's Sunny 101 Name that Lunchtime Gold "I can retire lullilled," said Bednarski "Thank goodness he did it before gradua· lion," said Shirley "Yeah!" said the stall ••••••• GO, BEDNO ••••••• Thank you, Allaenll 
AAJAX 

NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. Call Missy 271·0868......... 
0 holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­sor of all who invoke your special patronage in time ol need. To you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. (3 Our Fathers, 3 Hail Marys, 3 Glorias). St. Jude, pray lor us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. JMB (Publication must be promised. This novena has neven been known to fail. 
Say it tor 9 consecutive days). My request has been granted beyond all possible belief. 
HEY!! Something Fun! Something New! •• BRAZILIAN CARNIVAL •• I Live Salsa Band I SATURDAY 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB Maeta tonight at Stepan Center ALL ATTENDII 
to BEVERLY PERT lrom Howie Hall You probably don't remember me but I sure remember you-rhow about a date? RESPOND HERE-PLEASE! 
CATHY "The Crusher" R 

HELPIIIIII Date rapallll All I did was get In bed with you. With that right crosa of yours, you ought to be In the Bengal Bouts. 
-Your VIctim 
T·Your f~rst personal! You gotta love me lor that. ·STAN 
to KR SQUARED-you too guys ' 

FELICIA... WHAT have you been EATINGI? 
"' HAPPY BIRTHOAY TO JEFF 
JANICIK "' YOU REALLY PUT ON A GREAT SHOW!II FROM ,YOUR FRIENDS ON THE FIRST FLOOR JANITORIAL STAFF NIEUWLAND SCI­ENCE HALL. 
LIGHTS, CAMERA. ACTION BUCH MAHONY SARTORI SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT VOTE VOTE VOTE BUCH MAHONY SARTORI 
SMC VOTE REILLY, CONNERY, MAROZAS FOR STUDENT BODY OFFICERS. 
MAGGIE CONGRATULATIONSII YOU MADE IT WITHOUT READING TOM JONESIII SO 
BENE·FIT A -TTON NATACHA DOYLE·PRES. JACKIE BRODY-V.P. MARIA MARCZAK-SEC. JEANNIE SABIN-TRES. FOR SOPHO· MORE CLASS OFFICE UNITED LEADERS FOR A CHANGE 
MARY BETH TELL ME IT'S NOT SOl DON'T MARRY WILL, MARRY ME. YOUR LOVE, DENNIS THE GOD 
L---------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 22, 1988 _________________T_h_e:........:O....;:b..;;.s..;;.erv--.:.e_r_________________________r:P.::a.2.ge:..._:1....:..1 


Temple, Purdue pass tests, s~ay atop polls 

Associated Press ranked basketball teams Sun­
day. 

The Temple Owls and No. 1 Temple did it the hard 
Purdue Boilermakers lived up way, coming from behind in the 
to their billing as nation's top-second half on the road at 
....n ....~...

r:======~···· ..........========;-. 

••••••• JMW"""""~""""""""""""'M""'O""O""'d""'a""y""',wv.flftftleb""""".21ftft19"""""~""""""""""~""""",_,. 


····-················ 


:-:·:-: 
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR MEDICAL STUDENTS. 
Medical school costs ore rising every day They're climbing foster than many students con handle without the right kind of financial help. If you're a medical student, the Air Force may hove the best answer for you. We offer on excellent scholarship program that con ease the financial strain of medical or osteopathy school and allow you to concentrate on your studies. Participation is based on competitive selection. Let the Air Force make on investment myour professional future. For more information, call 
CAPT JAMES RICHEY USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
317-848-5830 
Collect 
Chapel Hill and routing No. 5 North Carolina 83-66. The second-ranked Boilermakers beat visting Indiana, 95-85. 
In another game on Sunday, host Missouri, ranked No. 15, defeated Oklahoma 92-70. 
Mike Vreeswyk scored 26 points, including five 3-point goals, to lead Temple, 22-1. 
In Top Ten games Saturday, No. 3 Arizona beat UCLA 78-76 in overtime, No. 4 Oklahoma defeated New Mexico 120-100, No.6 Duke outlasted Kansas 74­70 in overtime, No. 7 Brigham Young edged Hawaii 72-70, No. 8 Pittsburgh downed No. 18 Georgetown 70-65 after a brawl ended the game with four seconds left, and Florida beat No.9 Kentucky 83-76. 
No. 11 Nevada-Las Vegas defeated San Jose State 85-68, No. 12 Syracuse nipped Connec­ticut 73-71, No. 13 Iowa beat Minnesota 107-86, Georgia Tech downed No. 14 North Carolina State 87-84, No. 16 Vanderbilt tripped Georgia 77­71, No. 17 Bradley stopped Creighton 78-71 in overtimE>, No. 19 Wyoming downed Colorado State 57-50 and Loyola (Calif.) defeated Pepperdine 142-127 to clinch its first West Coast Athletic Conference title in 27 years. 
At Columbia, S.C., a brawl in Louisville's 98-88 double­overtime victory resulted in the ejection of South Carolina Coach George Felton. 
Purdue 95, Indiana 85 
Todd Mitchell scored 21 of his 24 points in the second half and Troy Lewis had 22 points and a career-high 14 assists as second-ranked Purdue retained possession of first place in the Big Ten Confer­ence. 
Melvin McCants added a career-high 21 points for Purdue, 22-2, 11-1. Keith Smart scored 23 points and Jay Ed­wards 20 for Indiana, 15-18, 7-6. 
UNL V 85, San Jose St. 68 
Gerald Paddio scored 23 points and Jarvis Basnight has 20 points and 11 rebounds for 
~~ 
Get Involved in the 




World of Advertising 
NOW 
Create &Promote multi-thousand dollar advertising campaigns 
We need volunteers in the following areas: 
copy writing ad design marketing promotional concepts 
Experienced and non-experienced positions available 
Pick up appllcatlons at the Secretary's desk 2nd noor LaFortune Applications are due Thursday, February 25th 


Tennis loses three in weekend matches 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The previously undefeated Notre Dame men's tennis team came back to reality this weekend. 
Despite a gallant effort, the Irish lost to three superior teams in the 1988 Notre Dame Men's Quadrangular. After fal­ling to Northwestern, Iowa and Miami of Ohio, Notre Dame now stands at 5-3. 
Coming into this weekend, Bob Bayliss' Notre Dame squad was an impressive 5-0, and had yet to lose a doubles match all year. Bayliss knew his team would be underdogs for the first time this weekend. He thought they were ready, but it was just a case of too much, too soon. 
"This was a case of ex­tremely tough scheduling," said Bayliss. "In our first five matches, we were definite favorites, and in the last three we were heavy underdogs." 
Action at the Eck Tennis Pavilion began on Friday with a match against Northwestern, which Notre Dame lost 8-1. The 

Applications for Theodore's Student 
Managers for the 1988-89 school year are now available in the Office of Student Activities. 
They must be turned in by 
No. 11 UNLV, 23-3 and 12-2 in 
the Pacific Coast Athletic As­
sociation. 
It was the seventh straight loss for San Jose State, which got 1~points from Ricky Berry. 
Wyoming 57, CSU 50 
Reggie Fox scored 13 points to help No. 19 Wyoming im­prove to 20-5 and 9-5 in the Western Athletic Conference. Pat Durham scored 19 points for Colorado State. 
Loyola, Calif. 142, 
Pepperdine 127 
Bo Kimble scored a career­high 36 points and Hank Gat­hers added 32 as Loyola ran its winning streak to 19 straight. The Lions, 22-3 aiid 12-0, set a WCAC record for points and the two teams combined to set a conference scoring record. 

Pepperdine's Levy Mid­dlebrooks had a career-high 40 points and grabbed 25 rebounds. 
only Irish winner was senior captain Dan Walsh. In fact, Walsh was the only Notre Dame plaver to avoid losi~ a singles match all weekend. In the number-one singles match, Brian Kalbas lost to Matt Ar­mon 6-2, 6-3. 
The Irish lost five of the six 
singles matches, prompting 
Bayliss to make a strategic 
move by resting his top doubles 
teams for Saturday. 
It was more of the same on Saturday. In the day's first match, Notre Dame fell to Iowa 7-2. Kalbas defeated Iowa's Martin Aguirre in straight sets 7-5, 6-3. Walsh came through with the only other Irish win. Mike Wallace lost to Dan Novak 6-3, 7-5. Ryan Wenger and David Kuhlman both lost in three set matches. In doubles action, Bayliss' strategy from Friday failed to pay off, as the Irish lost all three matches. 
The most positive aspect of the weekend for Notre Dame was its match against Miami of Ohio on Saturday afternoon. The Irish played an amazingly intense match considering the grueling schedule, losing 6-3. 
"We played better as the weekend went on," said Walsh. "After the initial loss we woke up and started to play pretty well" said Walsh. 
Once again Kalbas and Walsh won. Senior Paul Daggs got Notre Dame's other vic­tory. Kalbas soundly defeated Miami's Jeff Skolnik, one of the top 25 players in the country, 6-2, 6-2. the country. Bayliss feels Kalbas himself is becom­ing one of the premier players in the country. 

"If I could say one thing about Brian it would be that he is absolutely maximizing his capabilities," the first-year co­ach said. "He is an incredibly intense competitor and played excellently considering he reaggravated his groin in­jury." 
"We have a lot of depth and a strong will to win, as was shown in the Miami match," said Bayliss. 


"' ------~---~---~---.------~~---~-­
... 


Monday, February 22, 1988 


CLASS OFFICE AND OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER ELECTIONS 
FOR TifOSE ~'TERESTED lN DECLAIUNG TH11R TlCJCET CANDIDACY f-QR nm OffiCES OF WE Q.ASSE$ OF '19. '90. ANQ'9L DIESB QAif.1 All OF GREAI IMPORTANCE· 
MANDATORY t-1oeting for DcdMcd DndidMcs: 

lUE.SDAY, February 23 
6:00 pm Nocre Dame Room. 2nd floor LaFonune . 
~c cons Required for Undid.acy Due: FRIDAy, Febnwy 
26 

12.-<Xl noon in the ShJdc01 Gowmmen1 OCfices. 2nd floor Lalonune 
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS:  TUESDAY. MJ.rch 1  
CAMPAIGNING ENDS:  MONDAY. Mm:h 7  
II midnicht  

EL!EC710H DllY: 1UESDAY, MMch 8 
Runoff Umpai&Jlinc (if necesury} wednesday. Much 9 Thursday. March 10 


Monday, February 22, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Skaters earn America's first gold, silver medals 
Associated· Press 
CALGARY, Alberta-Tomas Gustafson of . Sweden set a world speed-skating record and became the Winter Olym­pics' first double gold medalist Sunday, while America still basked in the triumphs of its own two skaters. 
Franck Piccard won the super giant slalom and gave France its first ski racing gold since Jean-Claude Killy took Grenoble b~ storm in 1968. Anita Wachter of Austria won 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 for Building Improvement Fund) TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS, WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND .'S. CHARGE: (219) 284-9190 
1988 

-Sponsored by the Student Ucion Board Cultural Arts Commission.
Sophomore Literary Festival 
the women's combined. 
With spring-like tempera­tures lingering in the Rockies, Brian Boitano and Eric Flaim were America's men for all seasons. Boitano with a gold in figure skating, and Flaim won a silver in speed skating. 
And, while Americans could not match the mighty Soviet bloc in medals, they at least had something to talk about be­sides the weather. 
"I got one for the USA," Boitano said Sunday, one day after his victory. "The thought has occurred to me that if we leave with no more gold medals, at least we've got this one." 
Flaim, who won his silver in the 1,500 meters, finished Sun­day's 10,000 in fourth place. It was Flaims's third No. 4 finish 
America had three medals, but its hockey team failed to stay in contention for another one Sunday night, losing to West Germany 4-1 in a game that decided the third and final team advancing from the B pool into the medal round. 
-The Soviet Union beat Czec­hoslovakia 6-1 in a rematch of the 1984 gold medal game, and Austria met Norway in the other Group B games. 
Poland's best hockey player, Jaroslaw Morawiecki, became the first athlete to test positive for steroids from urine samples taken in the first week of the Games. Morawiecki was banned from the Games, and Poland had to forfeit a victory over France, costing it any chance of winning a medal. 
The Soviet Union and East Germany have 26 of the total 66 medals at these Games, in­cluding 12 of 22 golds. The Soviets have 16 medals, East Germany 10. 
Gustafson, a 1984 gold medalist in the 5,000, won at the same distance last Wednesday in Olympic record time and set a world record in winning Sun­day's 10,000 in 13 minutes, 48.20 seconds. The old mark was 
13:48.51 by Geir Karlstad of Norway. 
"How do you describe happi­ness?" he asked after his first gold medal. "I will have to write a poem." 
Piccard, who already had a bronze in the downhill, chal­lenged Mount Allan's super giant slalom course where others showed caution on the icy, steep hill. 
He got such a rough ride, he cracked his helmet open when he hit a gate near the start and slammed his poles into the snow at the finish, fearing the 


FRI. FEB. 26th 
8:00 P.M. 

NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: $10.00 $8.50 
$2.00 DISCOUNT: 
ND-SMC STUDENTS' 
FACUL TV/STAFF 
worst. But he was a winner by more than a second over Hel­mut Mayer of Austria, and he spoiled the return to action of downhill gold medalist Pirmin Zurbriggen and the debut of Italian ace Alberto Tomba. 
The Soviets won another gold medal Sunday when their wo­men's cross-country relay team prevailed, tying East Germany with six golds. Four of the Soviet golds are in cross­country skiing, where they have won nine of 15 medals of­fered so far. 
America's next good chance for a medal is Monday when speed skater Bonnie Blair of Champaign, Ill., renews her rivalry with East German Christa Rothenburger in the 500 meters. 
Gustafson beat Michael Hadschieff of Austria, a bronze medalist at 1,500 meters, by 
7.91 seconds. Leo Visser of Hol­land, second behind Gustafson in the 5,000, won the bronze. 
Piccard's gold was the first in the Olympics for the French men since Killy won three golds in Grenoble before dissension ripped apart the team and destroyed it in the mid-1970s. 
"I made lots of mistakes in the upper part, but by the bot­tom of the race, I was skiing better," Piccard said. 
Piccard, a non-winner in five seasons on the World Cup tour, chattered and churned his way th~ough the course, ending in 1 mmute, 39.66 seconds. Mayer ~as 1.3 seconds behind for the silver, and Lars-Boerje Eriksson of Sweden won the 
bronze. 
University of Notre 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23 


Dame 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 

7:00pm Jazz Combo Performance WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24 12:00pm Conversation with Peter Michaelson 
JAC.C. Concourse Library Lounge 
8:00pm Josef Skvorecky reading 8:00pm John Engels reading 
JAC.C. Concourse Library Auditorium 
Reception following in Monogram Roon Reception following in Library Lounge 
12:00pm Conversation with Josef Skvorecky THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25 12:00pm Conversation with John Engels Library Lounge Library Lounge 8:00pm Marilyn Krysl reading 8:00pm Don Hendrie, Jr. reading Library Auditorium Library Auditorium Reception following in Library Lounge Reception following in Library Lounge
• 

12:00pm Conversation with Marilyn Krysl and FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 8:00am Breakfast with Don Hendrle..Jr. 
Etheridge Knight, South Dining Hall 
Library Lounge 8:00pm Paule Marshall reading 
8:00pm Peter Michaelson and Etheridge Knight Library Auditorium 
reading, Reception following in Library Lounge 
Library Auditorium 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27 12:00pm Conversation with Paule Marshall 
Reception following in Library Lounge 

Library Lounge 
All EVENTS ARE FREE OF CHARGE AND EVERYONE 
Monday, February 22, 1
page 14 The Observer 




Today's Events 
12:00 Noon Cross-Country Skiing: Men's 4x10-Kilometer Relay Ice Hockey: Finand vs. Poland 1:30p.m. Alpine Skiing: Women's Super Giant Slalom 3:30p.m. Freestyle Skiing: Moguls (demonstration sport) 4:00p.m. Hockey: Sweden vs. Canada 8:00p.m. Speed Skating: Women's 500 Meters Short-Track Speed Skating Speed Skating: Men's 1500 Meters 8:15p.m. Figure Skating: Dance Original Set Pattern 8:30p.m. Hockey, France vs. Switzerland 
ABC Coverage 
8:30 to 11:00 p.m., 11:30 to Midnight. 

Wolves 
continued from page 16 
again. Tim Osburn scored at 
14:02 of the second period, and Joe Mocnik followed with a power play goal less than four minutes later, and the Wolves led 5-2 with one period to play. 
McNeill and Montgomery scored in the first two minutes of the third period to close the gap to 5-4, but the Irish could get no closer. Ron Duda scored his team-leading 30th goal at 
17:31 of the final period to seal the win for Dearborn. 
The Irish had plenty of power-play opportunities throughout the game, but they never could take advantage. Notre Dame went 1-for-7 in the man-advantage situation for the game, and the Wolves also scored during one Irish power play. 
Schafer thought the loss of sophomore wings Bruce Guay and Tim Kuehl, who both were sidelined with injuries, might have had something to do with 
Notre  Dame's  scoring prob­ 
lems.  
"We  sorely  missed  their  

presence," said Schafer. "They represent 41 of our goals this season. We played well enough to win, but Dearborn played well. They played with a lot of emotion, and they're a good hockey team. 
"Everybody gave their best effort," Schafer continued. "I'm disappointed with the loss, but not with the effort. They might have a little more skill than we do right now." 


Irish 
continued from page 16 
11-3 run to tie the score at 47-47 with 13:54 to play in the game. With the score still tied at 57-57, the Irish outscored the War­riors 14-2 to take a 71-59 lead and put the game away. 
Notre Dame clinched the win with a barrage of free throws down the stretch. For the game, the Irish connected on 33 of 42 free throws, a stat that left McGraw pleased. 
"It was a great day for us at the line," McGraw said. "It 
· was much better than we had been shooting." 
The Irish continue their road swing with a game at Val­paraiso on Thursday. 
•

Boitano WinS duel of Brians 
Associated Press 

CALGARY, Alberta-A fist thrust in the air by an elated Brian Boitano and the pain that pinched the face of Brian Orser told it all. 
"It's the ultimate," Boitano said after he beat friend and skating opponent Orser for the gold medal Saturday by a razor's edge, the second straight time the Canadian lost an Olympic title to an Ameri­can. 
The bronze went to up-and­coming Soviet skater Viktor Petrenko. 
man's choice of military music group for Saturday's long pro­and battle colors, with Boitano gram, both were careful to wearing blue and Orser don-avoid looking at the other, zip­ning red, capped 10 years of ping by with eyes averted. competition. Boitano had lost "This whole week was ex­the last two encounters, at hausting like no competition Skate Canada last fall and at I've ever experienced," said the 1987 world championships. Boitano, 24, of Sunnyvale, 
Calif. "It was pressure at its 
ultimate." 

When he stepped on the ice, 
Boitano said, "There was a 
voice saying, 'This is it. This is 
The buildup had been intense it.' And then there was another for a faceoff billed as "The Bat-voice saying, 'Just treat it like tle ofthe Brians," and it clearly another competition. It was a weighed heavily on both men. kind of a fight, a tug of war and During warmups in the last an exhausting fight." 
appointment at a news confer-
Orser, choking back his dis-F;:::====================~ 
ence, put on a brave face. "Sure I'm disappointed," he said, "but now I have to focus on Budapest and defend my world championship." 
The dramatic showdown of freeskating, performed to each 
Spring Break: Vail, Colorado 
A mandatory meeting will be held February 22 (tonight) for those going to Vail for_ Spring Break. 
TIME: 7pm PLACE: Montogomery Theatre, Lafortune 
There are a few spots still available. Any Questions, call: Mike 271-9448 or Paul 283-1116 
1/1t You'll see 

Jr. · the savings! 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 



•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 





$39.98 
Daily Wear Powers +7.00 to -12.00 
Extended Wear Powers plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted 

2 Pairs for
Contact Lenses 
Daily or 
ExtendedWear 


$99.98
&.a1c:b 1': Lomb or 
S.ftmate B 

2 Different Colors 
An eye exam is required at the time of 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Limitea time offer. 
"Our eyewear prices are 
the lowest in fndiana, and 
our eyecare quality ts 
wtSurpassecL And that's a 
promtse from the doctor." 


Soutb Bend Mishawaka 1111 E lrelal!d Rd 506 W. McKinley Broadmoor Plaza K·M•n/Mutin Center lata from Saa.dlle Mall ncJ.t door ID Oleo Drua, 
291-4000 258-5000 




PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 
Parsons in Paris: 6·week program June 30-August 13, 1988 Pa1nt1ng, drawing, art hostory and the l1beral arts Pans and the Dordogne countryside or S1ena. Italy 
Fashion in Paris June 30-July 30, 1988 Fash1on Illustration, a hostory of European costume and contemporary :rends on French fashoon. Slode presentations, museums. studoo and retail outlets. guest lectures. 
Photography in Paris June 30-July 30, 1988 The aesthetiCS and craft of photography. Lectures, gallery v1s1ts and shooting assignments. 
Architecture and Design in Paris June 30-July 30, 1988 European decoratove arts and the hostory of French architecture. Parsons faculty and staff members of the Musee des Arts Decoralofs. Alternate curriculum available on architecture and modern1sm. 
Parsons In Great Britain July 7-August 8, 1988 A program co-sponsored by the Cooper-Hew1tt Museum Archotecture and decorat1ve arts 1n London. Four excurs1ons to nearby country homes and towns. 
Parsons in Italy June 30-July 29, 1988 Pnnc1ples of architecture and the h1story of ltal1an arch1tecture Rome. Florence. Ven1ce and M1lan 
Parsons in Israel July 13-August15, 1988 An on-depth ontroduct1on to the h1story and archaeology of Jerusalem. and to technoques of artiStiC representatoon and photographoc reportage. 
Parsons in West Africa July S.July 30, 1988 Ceram1cs. fobers. metalsmoth1ng, photography. archaeology or lradotoonal Afncan art and archotecture The Ivory Coast and/or Malo (813·8124188) 
Bank StreetJParsons June 27-July 29, 1988 A JO•nt three-summer master's degree program w1th fh€ prestogoous Bank Street College of Educat1on The curnculum exam1nes educatiOnal superv1· s1on and adm1nostratoon w1th a vosual arts focus 
College Session in New York June 27-July 28, 1988 Full-tome study 1n a spec1fled art and desogn area Draw1ng, pa1nt1ng, ceram1c and textile des1gn. commumcat1on des1gn, photography, architec­tural desogn. Illustration, fash1on 1llustratoon or fash1on desogn, 
Pre-College Session in New York June 27-July 28, 1988 A full·t1me opportunoty. For hogh school students cons1denng college majors on draw1ng, pamtong, ceram1c and text1le desogn, commumcatoon des1gn. photography. ontroductoon to archotecture, 1llustrat1on. fashoon 1llustratoon. fashoon merchand1s1ng or fash1on des1gn. lntroduct1on to art and des1gn also available. • 
Pre-College in Israel July 13-August15, 1988 A new program offered JOintly w1th the Bezalel Academy of Arts & Design. Prom1sing h1gh school students v1sit maJOr h1stoncal sites. Emphas1s on ar­chaeology and draw1ng or photography 
Pre-College In France :July 14-August 11, 1988 H1gh school students of art1st1c prom1se VISit Pans and the Dordogne reg1on. College-level drawing and paintong. w1th lectures 1n art history and prehistoric archaeology, 
All foreign programs 1nclude a1r transportation. land transfers and accom· modations. Dorm1tory arrangements for New York programs are available. Selected programs are offered With undergraduate cred1t, graduate cred1t and no-cred1t options. For addilionallnformat,on, please return the coupon 
below or call (212) 741-8975. 
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 66 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011 
Please send me mformation on the follow1ng special summer programs: 
D Parsons/Paris D Parsons/West Afnca 
D Fash1on/Paris D Bank Street/Parsons 
D Photography/Paris D College/New York 
D Architecture/Paris D Pre-College/New York 
D Parsons/Great Britain D Pre-College/Israel 
D Parsons/Italy D Pre-College/France 
D Parsons/Israel 
Name _______________________________________ 
Address 

City·__________State,_____2ip._____ 
Phone __ -----------------­
.------------------------------------------~-~-­
, February 22, 1988 
15
The Observer 

The Daily Crossword 
Monday 
12:30 p.m. -Biological Sciences Seminar "Suspended Animation: The Bioc­hemistry of Animals in Limbo," by Ken Storey Carlton University. Room 283 Galvin Life Science Center. ' 
6 p.m: -Saii_It Mar~:s Justice Educato~s and Peace Makers Faculty,Student panel d1scuss1on on Why Are We Afratd of Change and Diversity?" Nancy Schoeneman, Saint Mary's, Moderator. Stapleton Lounge 6:3~ p.m. -Saint ~ar~'s Biology Department lecture "The New Genetics: Appli­cations and Imphcat10n for Our Future," by Samuel Rhine Nobles Center In­dianapolis Little Theatre ' ' 
7 p.m. -Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series "Philadel­phia Story," 1940, 112 minutes, directed by George Cukor USA. Annenberg Auditorium ' 
7:30p.m. -Basketball Notre Dame men vs. Creighton, Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
7:30p.m. -Natural Family Planning of South Bend and Campus Ministry lecture "New Advances in Natural Family Planning," by Mercedes Wilson executiv~ director of Family of the Americas Foundation. Room 222 Hayes-He~ly 
8 p.m. -Colleg~ of Arts and Letters, Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, and department of h1story lecture. Theme: Innovative Approaches to Religious His­torr-"'~he Wars of Religion in 16th Century Europe," by John Bossy, York Umvers1ty, England. Room 122 Hayes-Healy 
8 p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival. Marilyn Krysl will read from her works. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

9 p.m. -Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series presents "Notorious," 1946, 96 minutes, directed by Alfred Hitchcock USA. AnnenbergAuditorium ' 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Hot Beef Sandwich Turkey Divan Pasta Primavera BBQ Pork Ribs Saint Mary's Roast Beef au jous Corn Dogs Vegetarian Lasagna Deli Bar 


Comics . -: . .. · , 
. 

Bloom County 
81?11Cl 'rTXJf(5e(_F: 
MR!:Jf?A 5Tf?£1SIIN£1 !5 Pt.IIY/Nf:7 F(X}m£ WtrH IXJN JOHN50N. 
\ 

Calvin and Hobbes 
ACROSS 1 lt. resort 6 Sphinx site 
10 March date 14 Exhausted 15 Confess 16 Calamitous 17 Charlatan 19 1A e.g. 20 Moth 21 Immigrant 23 Minute 
quantity 25 Choir member 26 lt. lake 29 Stick 32 Prosperous 
times 35 Plenty for poets 
36 Chairperson's 
program 37 Pile 38 Kind of bath 40 Lode content 41 Networks 43 Stannum 44 Witty answer 47 "-vldl, vlcl" 48 Dexterity 49 Fruit 5 Between: pref. 50 Anthony or 6 Blarney stone 
Barbara gift? 51 Ditto 7 Lendl of 53 North Sea tennis 
feeder 8 Torrid ­55 Blowhole 9 Clumsy 59 Hickory nut 10 Fool 62 Football 11 Alit 
maneuver 12 A Gardner 63 Equivalent 13 Swami 66 Dies -18 Writer Jong 67 Potpourri 22 Lucid 68 Actress 24 S.A. capital 
Ekberg 26 Jal alai basket 69 Diamond with 27 Walking ­
a voice (elated) 70 Traveled 28 Ascended by 71 Finch's Moses 
relative 30 Wading bird 31 VIm 
DOWN 33 US patriot 1 Rotating piece 34 Avila's land 2 Amaryllis 39 Fragrance 3 Stopper 42 Each person 4 Lower, as a 45 Kind of 
curtain muscle 
~ ,~ · · ·-·.· · --. -. · 
. . . 

Berke Breathed Far Side 
.. 

02/22/BB 

46 Seed coat 57 Fr. composer 52 Russ. union 58 Arthurlan lady 54 Bombeck 60 US naturalist 
namesakes 61 Opposed 55 Whirl 64 Shoe tip 56 Unadulterated 65 Thrash 
Gary Larson 



5TK~!SilNO'S
Yll KNOW He'5 YOIIN&eK 
'TOY 80Y &OY.
1HilN He'R. FKIIC77CIIUY 
1180Y. 
I
I 

• 

"Dollar to a doughnut It's them Cyclops brothers again." 
• 
• 

MOVIES THIS WEEK SPONSORED BY SUB 

WEST SIDE STORY ANIMAL HOUSE 
Wed & Thurs $2.00 Friday and Saturday 8 & 10 pm Cushing Auditorium 8 & 10 pm 




Sports 
Monday, February 22, 1
page 16 

Kuhns, Gavin lead the way as Irish conquer Marqu.ette 
By GREG GUFFEY With Bunek struggling, it We think that if we win the next 
Sports Writer was time for others to step up four games we will get in." and shine for the Irish. Lisa Marquette controlled the 
In its first meeting with Mar­Kuhns poured in a career-high opening tap and then controlled quette this season, the Notre 22 points, hitting six three­the entire first half. The War­Dame women's basketball pointers, and Sandy Botham riors twice built leads of seven team coasted to victory behind scored 19 points, all in the at 17-10 and 27-20. The Irish cut the career-high 32-poilit effort second half. the advantage to 36-33 at the of Heidi Bunek. One of the biggest boosts half on a Kuhns three-pointer 
The host Warriors held came from senior co-captain with :50 to play. Bunek to only 10 points in Sat­Mary Gavin. She scored a "We let them score at will," urday's rematch, but the rest season-high 15 points, but McGraw said of the first half. of the squad picked up the slack McGraw said it was her lead­"We didn't have any intensity. to pace the Irish to a 79-69 vic­ership that got the team going. I was not pleased at all with
• tory, their fifth straight win. "She played with a lot of in­the first half. That's what hap­
With more than 100 of her tensity," McGraw said. "We pens when you beat a team by fans watching, Bunek, a Mil­were flat and complacent in the 37 points earlier in the season waukee native, shot only 3-8 first half, but she really got and you're expecting to win from the field and 4-8 from the everybody going in the second again. You're expecting it to foul line in 32 minutes of action. half. She thought she could pick happen without working for it." She eventually fouled out late up some of the slack." In the second half, Both am in the second half. Not only did the Irish com­took control. She scored the 
"She didn't play well," Irish plete the season sweep of the first six points of the second coach Muffet McGraw said. "It Warriors, but they kept alive half to give the Irish a 39-36 was a big homecoming for her. their NCAA tourney hopes. The lead. Gavin added a basket and There were a couple hundred win improved their record to Kuhns a three-pointer to boost 
of her fans watching and the 17-6. the lead to 44-36. local television station inter­"It looks a lot better if we 

The Warriors then went on a With senior guard Mary Gavin (1 0) scoring a season-high 15 points, 
viewed her. She was pressing win by 20 points," McGraw 

the Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated Marquette 79-69 
too hard and she got into some said, "but we were on the road 

on Saturday at Marquette. Notre Dame next plays at Valparaiso on
foul trouble." and they take that into account. see IRISH, page 14 
Thursday. 

UM-Dearborn snaps hockey team's streak in sweep 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 

day as the Wolves swept Notre Dearborn jumped out to an minutes later, scoring from Dearborn's superb penalty­Sports Writer Dame 3-1 and 6-4 at Dearborn. early lead less than four close to the same spot as Bur­killing unit kept the Irish of­"Their goaltender was ex­minutes into Friday's contest ton had on his winning goal. fense frustrated.Michigan-Dearborn goalies ceptionally hot Friday night," when Joe Burton converted on "The defense played pretty After the first 12 minutes
Mike Klavon and Dave Church 

said Irish coach Ric Schafer. a power-play opportunity. well most of the time, but we went scoreless, the Wolvesstopped just about everything "We just couldn't get it by their At 14:20 of the first period, made a couple of mistakes they scored three goals in less than that came their way last goaltender. We outshot them Matt Hanzel tied the game on jumped on," said Schafer. "It five minutes to gain a com­weekend. Saturday too. We just couldn't a shot from just inside the right was a hard-fought series." manding lead. Burton's shor­
By the end of the Wolves' se­get the upper hand." 

circle. The Irish, who averaged Notre Dame took several thanded goal to open theries with the Irish hockey team, The Dearborn sweep 
6.9 goals a game going into the shots from close range during scoring highlighted the run.
they had stopped Notre Dame's clinched the ACHA regular 

weekend, would not score the final two periods, but Senior Tom Mooney scored14-game winning streak and its season title for the Wolves, who again on Friday. Klavon managed to make the with less than two minutes left 
chances of gaining the Ameri­sport a 10-1-1 conference record Burton, the Wolves' leader in save every time. Although the in the period to make the score can Collegiate Hockey Associ­and a 22-13-3 mark overall. 

total points, scored his second Irish outshot Dearborn 25-9 in 3-1, and Tom Fitzgerald madeation regular season title, as Second-place Notre Dame fell 
goal of the evening at 6: 12 of the final two periods, the it a one-goal game by tallying well. to 5-3-2 and 23-4-2. A post­the second period to give Dear­Wolves outscored Notre Dame at 4:31 of the second period. 
Klavon recorded 37 saves on season tournament March 4-5 

born the lead for good. 2-0 during that time. But Dearborn built the leadFriday night and Church fol­at Dearborn will determine the Ken Chaput added the final Church did not enjoy quite aslowed with 34 saves on Satur-ACHA champion. 
goal for the Wolves four much success on Saturday, but see WOLVES, page 14 


ND looks to cont·inue string against inexperienced Jays 
By RICK RIETBROCK starting guard, James Farr. coming off wins against Assistant Sports Editor The 5-10 junior, who attended Fordham, UCLA, Rutgers and Northwest Community Col­Dayton as it continues its drive Riding a four-game winning lege, is averaging 13.5 points to be included in the NCAA streak, the Notre Dame basket­this year. Both guards are Tournament. With four of the ball team will entertain threats from three-point range. last five games of the year at Creighton tonight at the Joyce The rest of the Creighton home, Head Coach Digger ACC. Tip-off is at 7:30p.m. roster is definitely young, all Phelps says he is most con­
The rebuilding Bluejays, underclassmen, but the cerned with getting his team billed as 'young but tested' by probable starting frontcourt, back to where he it should be, their media guide, have en­all freshmen, is just in the and letting the tourna:ment dured an up-and-down season process of being tested. take care of itself. and have hit some hard times Chad Gallagher (6-9) is 
... of late. They have lost to Brad­having a fine rookie year at one "We were in a groove after ley (twice), Illinois State and forward spot, hitting for 11.4 we beat Kansas, then we went Wichita State in the last 10 days points and grabbing 5.3 into a holding pattern for two to drop their record to 13-14 (5-8 rebounds per contest. weeks with Mark Stevenson in Missouri Valley Conference Bob Harstad (6-6, 220 out," Phelps says. "Now we play). pounds) has been solid as the want to get back to where we other forward, averaging 8.2 were when we defeated Senior Rod Mason is points and 8.3 rebounds. Kansas. 
Creighton coach Tony Barone's Bill O'Dowd, (6-10, 195) has "We just need to get Steven­main man. Mason averaged been getting the starting nod at son back to playing the way he 
13.3 points to earn Missouri center lately. For the season, was before his suspension, and Valley Conference Newcomer he averages 1.8 points and 1.4 get a little more consistencyof the Year honors last season boards., from our inside game, and we'll 
after coming from Northeast­be fine." ern Oklahoma A &M junior col­The Bluejays were hurt by Notre Dame leads the overall lege. the loss of sophomore Todd Eis­series 17-15, and the Irish have 
The 6-3 guard averages 21.2 ner, who started at forward last won their last two gamespoints and 4.6 rebounds this season. Eisner had reconstruc­against Creighton. Benoit Ben­
Keith Robinson (50) and the Notre Dame basketball team will try to season. tive knee surgery earlier this jamin led the Bluejays to a 60­pull down their fifth consecutive victory tonight against Creighton. Creighton's other junior­year. 58 win over the Irish in Omaha Rick Reltbrock preview the encounter at the Joyce ACC at right. college transfer is also its other Notre Dame, now at 16-7, is during the 1984-85 season. 







