----~----­
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Chilling out
/ACCENT: Sarcastic Slap 
Colder Tuesday with a 40 per­cent chance of snow showers. High 25 to 30. Very cold at night with a 40 percent chance 

/VIEWPOINT: SMC Election Endorsement 
of snow showers. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 96 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

ND to increase minority aid 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI tee said would enhance all News Editor aspects of minority undergrad­uate and graduate life at Notre 
Notre Dame will seek signif­Dame. icant increases in minority en­The Univeristy will also in­rollment in the next four years crease the number of minority through formation of a $12 mil­faculty members, O'Meara lion endowment fund for said. Fourteen new faculty pos­minority financial aid, Univer­itions will be targeted sity President Father Edward primarily for blacks, Hispanics Malloy announced Monday. and American Indians. 
The money, which Provost In certain disciplines such as Timothy O'Meara said is engineering and science, already available, will help the however, where there are few University increase the num­minority professors, he said ber of minority freshman from women may be hired to in­the present 11 percent to 15 per­crease their presence on the cent by 1992. Minority graduate faculty. "The primary enrollment, presently five per­objective, however, is with cent, will double, he said. minorities," he said. 
"I have great confidence in The University will also the steps to be taken," Malloy create academic support sys­said at the afternoon press con­tems for minorities to help stu­ference. "But we have a long dents who received deficient way to go." educations from urban high 
The announcement marked schools, Malloy said. "We find the administration's first that the raw ability is often response to recommendations there," he said. by its Committee on Minority "Rather than force the stu­
Building up for the beach 
Students. dents with those kinds of back­A would-be Arnold Schwartzenegger works on his Memorial. Building muscle tends to bear more weight The committee, appointed by grounds to have to compete physiQue at the third floor gym at the Rockne with students as spring break comes closer. Malloy in 1986, made 12 recom­closer. mendations which the commit-see RECRUIT, page 5 

Swaggart confesses fascination with pornography 
Associated Press God, said late Sunday. The evangelist flew from his ALEXANDRIA, La. -headquarters in Baton Rouge Television evangelist Jimmy to Alexandria where he was ex­ airport aboard a van. Staffers at the church's district offices refused to say anything about the meeting.  The Washington Post re­ported Monday, quoting a source who spoke to a Jimmy Swaggart World Ministries  gelist Jim Bakker for committing adultery, compar­ing him to a cancer that had to be excised.  
Swaggart was summoned to appear before elders of the Assemblies of God on Monday,  pected to meet with the district presbytery. Janway said the group would report its findings  Swaggart did not describe his misconduct Sunday in his con­fession, which drew gasps and  board member, that Swaggart said he did not engage in sexual intercourse with the woman  Swaggart had worked last summer to develop an ethics code for broadcast ministries  
one day after he delivered a tearful confession of sin and stepped down from the pulpit. "I think he is a man of in­tegrity. I think he made a mis­take. I don't think it's a fatal mistake," Cecil Janway, dis­trict superintendent of the two million-member Assemblies of  privately to the general council of the country's largest Pen­tecostal denomination, in Springfield, Mo. Police kept reporters away from Swaggart at the Baton Rouge and Alexandria air­ports. Swaggart had no com­ment after landing and left the  tears from his congregation. An overflow crowd packed his 7,500-seat family worship center after reports that church officials had been given photographs purporting to show Swaggart and a known prostitute going into and out of a motel room.  but "paid her to perform por­nographic acts." The evangelist had confessed to a fascination with pornogra­phy stemming from his boyhood, the source said. Eleven months ago, Swag­gart scathingly denounced fel­low Assemblies of God evan­ to stem a drop-off in donations caused by the sex and money scandal at the PTL ministry under Bakker's reign. With tears streaming down his face, Swaggart said Sunday he was stepping down from the pulpit "for an undetermined, indeterminate period of time:•  

SMC candidates debate prior to SBP elections 
By MATT GALLAGHER Staff Reporter 
Candidates for Saint Mary's student body officers met Mon­day night in the Regina North Lounge to debate prior to the elections. Each ticket had a chance to express its positions on the issues raised by the elec­tions in an attempt to distin­guish itself from the pack. 
There are three tickets in the running, each of which fields a candidate for student body president, vice president for student affairs, and vice pres­ident for academic affairs and college relations. 
Each ticket was given time for opening and closing remarks. The rest of the debate was devoted to questions pro­posed by the election officials, The Observer editorial board, and students who attended the meeting. 
The three tickets all basi­cally agreed on the problems facing Saint Mary's in the next year, citing student apathy, lack of diversity, Saint Mary's security's role, and the revision of the Saint Mary's mission statement as some of the most important issues. 
The ticket of Ann Reilly, Julie Marozas, and Kathy Connors stressed academics as an area of concern for them. They noted that they would seek to change languages from three 
see DEBATE, page 4 

Faculty criticize Kaplan courses, support cheaper self-preparation 
By CHRIS SKORCZ Staff Reporter 
With students around the world scrambling for posi­tions in the most competitive colleges, universities and graduate schools, a large in­dustry has grown up around the standardized tests that have become almost univer­sally mandatory in the ap­plication process. 
Leading this industry, in terms of reputation and sheer size, is Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Center Ltd. But are the Kaplan Cen­ter's services really worth the several-hundred-dollar price tags the various courses cost? 
Definitely not, said Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts &Letters. 
"Stanley Kaplan over­charges. He discriminates against the kids who haven't got the dough," said Wad­dick. "The only thing you can do to prepare for the standardized tests is relieve anxiety and the cheaper you can do so the better." 
Waddick called attention to the many books of sample tests and test-taking strate­gies available to test-takers at a fraction of the cost of a single Kaplan course. 
Several guides containing three sample Law School Admissions Tests (LSAT> are available for only about $15, said Waddick. The preparatory course Kaplan offers prior to the LSAT costs almost $600. Similar workbooks are available for the Graduate Management Admissions Tests (GMAT) and the Graduate Record Exams (GRE) for even less than the LSAT book. 

"I've never told a kid, 'Hey, don't take the Kaplan course,"' Waddick said. "But if you can prepare for an aptitude test--which measures the student's po­tential for the first year of graduate study--the test is not valid. Many of these tests such as the MCAT are 
see KAPLAN, page 6 

Tuesday, February 23, 1988
page 2 The Observer 



In Brief 
The prosecutor for St. Joseph County will defer filing charges against the man arrested by Notre Dame Security in connection with a series of threatening phone calls. Security had questioned the man last month concerning threatening phone calls made to female students at Notre Dame. Security then arrested him -on warrants out of In­diana University at Bloomington in connection with calls made to that campus. The St. Joseph County prosecutor will defer charges in this jurisdiction until after the case in Bloomington is over, said Rex Rakow, director of Se­curity. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
In recognition of Black History Month, Grace Vision will be airing the PBS six hour mini series "Eye on the Prize.'' This is a documentary about the Civil Rights move­ment from 1954 to 1965. It will start at 3 p.m. on Feb. 23 and 25 and 6 p.m. on Feb. 24 and 27 on Channel 4 in Grace Hall. -The Observer 
"Preyaring for Second Interviews'' will be the topic o a presentation given this afternoon by Jeff Rice, assistant director, Career and Placement Services. The presentation will be held in 119 O'Shaughnessey at 4. This workshop will be repeated Wed. at 6:30 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessey. -The Observer 
Adlai Stevenson will present a lecture on "Democracy and Civic Virtues: From the Greek Ideal to the Modern American Reality," at noon on Wednesday, March 2. The presentation, sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government, will be given in Room 220 of the Notre Dame Law School. -The Observer 
A logo contest is being held for the Collegiate Jazz Festival's 30th anniversary, to be held April 8 and 9. The winning designer will receive $100 and old designs are available for reference. Entries are due Feb. 29 in the Student Union Board office. For more information, contact Dave Thornton at 287-6575 or Kevin Mundy at 283-3797. 
-The Observer 

30th Annual Finance Forum will be held at 4:30 
p.m. in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Robert Davis, managing partner of Crimson Capital Co., will discuss "Fundamentals count in Buyouts," and Robert Welch, chairman of Landmark Financial Corp., will speak on "In the Private Industry." -The Observer 
Final Scholarship Taxation meeting will be Wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Students who have scholarships/grants which pay for more than tuition, fees, books and supplies are responsible to report a portion of their aid on their tax return. The discussion will be directed to undergrad­uate students. -The Observer 
FAF deadline is Feb. 28 for the 8&89 school year. 
Forms can be found in the Financial Aid Office in the 
Administration Building. -The Observer 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7 in the Stanford Hall 24-hour lounge. -The Observer 
Senior Class Chicago Trip will be Wednesday. Buses will leave Notre Dame at 7:30p.m. Stop by the class office from 3:30p.m. to 5 p.m. to get tickets.-The Observer 
Sophomore Literary Festival continues with a conversation with Marilyn Krysl and Etheridge Knight at noon in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Readings by Peter Michaelson and Etheridge Knight will take place in the Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. A reception will follow in the Library Lounge. -The Observer 
The Math Club will meet at 7:30p.m. Wednesday in the Pasquerilla West Chapel Lounge to hold informal dis­cussions on both summer and career opportunities avail­able to math majors. Pizza and refreshments will be served. -The Observer 

Design Editor .. . ..... Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout ....... R. Aschenbrenner Design A..istant . .. . . .. .. .. .. . Michelle Dall Accent Copy Editor ....... Theresa Loomis Typesetters.... .. .......... Danna Jannetta Accent Layout ............... Kathleen Moran ............................................. Tom Elliott Typists ................................. Will Zamer News Editor.... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Cathy Stacy ................................ Katherine Harrigan Copy Editor..... .. ............. Matt Crowley ND Day Editor ... Janet Herold Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Photographer ................. Joann Whitfield Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Tony Lang 
TM Olllener (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& cum and vacation periods. TM Obeener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2.5 per !CIIIcstcr) by writi111 TM o..ner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46SS6. 
TM Olllener is a member of TM ~led Pnu. All reproduction riahts arc I'CICI'Ved. 

'CPA wanna-bees': Why do they do it? 
CPA. 

I have come to hate those letters. They stand for Certified Public Accountant. They should stand for Crazy Peoples Association. Insanity is the only reason I can think of that adequately explains why we do what we do. 
CPA wanna-bees generally fall into two categories. You have your serious candidates -the ones who spend weekend nights hidden be­hind a wall of books in a back corner carrel on an upstairs floor of the library. You also have your not-as-serious candidates -those who spend weekend nights at Senior Bar, a reputed pre­accountant hangout, bemoaning their fate and coincidentally making future business contacts in the process. 
Whatever their type, you surely will recog­nize the CPA candidates around campus. They walk hunched over beneath the staggering weight of the CPA review manuals (manuals! -a stone tablet is more like it) they carry in their backpacks. They mumble incoherent phrases like "commercial paper" and "cost of goods sold." They have circles under their eyes from getting up at eight o'clock or some other un­godly hour on a Saturday morning so they can trudge through snow at minus two degrees and sit through six or eight hours of material they don't understand. They have negative check­book balances since they just paid for these delightful classes, not to mention outrageous fees dished out to sit for the exam. 
There are other practical considerations as well. They have dirty laundry stacked taller than they are (at least the girls do). They haven't spoken to their roommates, much less their parents, in weeks. They are in danger of failing the Intro to Everything classes they took to get enough credits to graduate. They are never home. 
All of this is not to say there were never any benefits. We went to more receptions, dinners and brunches last semester than in the entire preceding three years. We also got enough mail to break the mail clerk's back, telephone calls to make AT&T stock shoot up, and plane trips to fill the friendly skies twice over. All those fringe benefits are easily forgotten now that decisions have been made and there is only work left to be done. 
The scary part is what we put up with to get here. Jokes about accounting geeks who can't add without a calculator. Gag gifts like ledger paper and mechanical pencils. Reprimands 
~ 


about how we were socially unaware and only after money. 
It only gets worse after you graduate. Ac­countants get a bad reputation. People think all you read is the Wall Street Journal, the only colors in your wardrobe are navy blue and gray, you carry pencils in your pocket, and you stay home on Tuesday nights to watch "thir­tysomething." 
The family gets in on the act, too. They give you presents like ties and socks for Christmas. They ask you to balance their checkbooks or worse yet, do their tax returns. 
You have to wonder why we do it. There must be some benefit to this hidden beneath the books, the long hours, the stereotypes. Maybe it's the feeling of accomplishment from knowing we're almost at the end. Maybe it's the feeling of power that comes from knowing that stock market crash or no, the world will always need accountants. Or else, as Lucy says in the Peanuts cartoons, it might just be the good clean sound of cold hard cash. 
Oh well, at least there are a lot of us. Misery loves company. 
.-----------------------------------------~ 


------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------------~--~-------------------------­
Tuesday, February 23, 1988 The Observer 
page 3 
Rhine discusses consequences of genetic engineering 

By SUE O'CONNOR 
News Staff 
The Biology Department of Saint Mary's College spon­sored a lecture "New Genetics: Applications and Implications for the Future" in Moreau Hall's Little Theater. The lec­ture by Dr. Samuel Rhine, a genetics specialist and the In­diana Academy of Science Speaker of the Year for 1987, discussed many of the practi­cal uses and consequences of genetic engineering. 
Rhine first discussed Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World," written in 1932. In the work, Huxley predicteci the fir!':t tP!':t 

Dukakis talks tough; Dole taunts Bush 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS, Min. ­Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis said Monday he might authorize military operations against terrorist base camps if he wins the White House. GOP hopeful Bob Dole taunted Vice President Bush for ceasing ef­forts in South Dakota and Min­nesota, battlegrounds for this week's campaign contests. 
"I don't know where George Bush is," Dole said in Duluth. "Later today we're going to send him a map of Minnesota so at least he gets a little idea where it is." 
Bush was in South Carolina and Tennessee, virtually con­ceding the South Dakota pri­mary and Minnesota caucuses to his GOP rivals. 
Dole is heavily favored to win the South Dakota contest. But he sounded less confident of his chances for victory in Min-

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ASSISTANT PRODUCTION MANAGER 
For further Information contact Bernadette Shilt&'Mellssa Warnke at The Observer (239-5303) 
---f!I---­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· 1 NOlANA 
SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS ABROAD 
Lb'ndon Rome · £fv18Yi lll-june ~7 . . June 12 -July 11 Tla~l!fn leland, ·. Travel-in FraACe, 
Scotl•md and fran~ Germany and 9vtj.tzerland 
i 

Courses offered in • ; (1! ART. BIOLOGY, HISTORY, BUSINESS, ECONOMICS,. ITALIAN AND SOCIOLOGY 
ll 

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
Feb. 23., 7 p.m. Carroll Hall For more information celntact Professor A.R. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
-------·-------' 


tube baby would appear in 600 years. In a 1958 sequel to the work, Huxley reduced the prediction to 100 years. The first test tube baby was actu­ally born in 1972, Rhine said. 
Rhine explained gene splic­ing and cloning (the major aspect of genetic engineering) as a "cut and paste" process. The difference is, however, that instead of cutting and pas­ting with scissors and paper, it is all done with the use of en­zymes. Different enzymes cut the DNA in different patterns, Rhine said. 
Rhine said one of the most important applications of ge­netic engineering is in the pro­
nesota, where former televi­sion evangelist Pat Robertson and Rep. Jack Kemp have w~ged energetic campaigns. 
On the Democratic side, Dukakis has invested heavily in Minnesota in hopes of bag­ging a win outside his New En­gland backyard. Dukakis, Rep. Richard Gephardt, Sen. Paul Simon, Sen. Albert Gore Jr. and Jesse Jackson have cam­paigned heavily in South Dakota as well. 
Gephardt campaigned in South Dakota and Wyoming, while his spokesman accused Gore of hypocrisy and released a list of what he said were switches in position the Tennes­see senator has made on issues ranging from abortion to farm policy to spending for the MX missiles. 
That was an attempt to turn the tables on Gore, who has vigorously attacked Gephardt for switching his position on 
key issues. 
duction of insulin. He said an endless supply now exists. An­other application of the process is the production of the gene for Interferon, a drug currently being tested for use as treat­ment of cancer and acquired immune deficiency syndrome(AIDS). 
Genetic engineering is also used to manufacture the gene for a growth hormone, he said. The problem existing in this, Rhine says, is that many par­pnt" ''!;!nt ~!'!,..!.:-~"'llct:-cn tc "'~ 
injected with the hormone. These children are already tall, but with the hormone, chances of winDin~t ~thletic scholar­ships increase. Rhine said the hormone has become a "new steroid." 
A high-risk AIDS group, hemophiliacs, can also benefit from genetic engineering, he said. Through the process, the gene for the protein required for blood clotting can be manufactured. Rhine said the process can also be used in reverse by producing the gene which destroys arterial blood clots near the heart, thus pre­venting heart attacks. 
DNA fingerprinting, copying strands of DNA is being used in forensic medicine, he said. Evidence at the scene of a crime can be matched with the DNA pattern of a suspect to prove if that suspect actually did commit the crime, Rhine said. 
Genetic engineering is also used in the detection of Hunt­ington Disease, a genetic dis­order manifested in middle­aged people. Rhine estimates the test to be 90 percent accu­rate. 
The genes of a 2400 year-old mummy have been cloned, as have the genes of an 8000 year­old brain, Rhine said. A vac­cine is trying to be developed for the AIDS virus, HTLV III. Rhine said this is very risky for laboratory workers. 




Thiel claims election violation 
By GREG LUCAS Copy Editor 
Matt Thiel, former candidate in the run-off for district three student senator, spoke to the Student Senate Monday night about a violation that he 
STUDENT/YOUTH FARE. EACH WAY BASED ON ROUND TRIP FROM CHICAGO. CALL FOR FREE STU­DENT TRAVEL CATALOG. 100'S OF OTHER DESTINATIONS AVAILABLE TO BUDGET TRAVELERS. 
ouncil Trave 
29 E. Delaware • Chicago, IL 
1---1:-1 2) 951-0585----1 
............<4 
Riding out the weather 
Senior Jessica Quinn and Junior Elaine Lawson make exercising more enjoyable by listening to tunes. The 
exercise bikes in the first floor gym at the Rockne Memorial are well-used as the winter months continue 
to make outdoor riding less attractive. 
claimed occurred in his race. 
"A candidate in my race solicited endorsements before the campaigning period started," Thiel said. 
According to Thiel, although the candidate was forced to for­feit the endorsements by Om­budsman, he was allowed to resolicit the endorsements. 
"I think you can see right away how this would give someone an unfair advan­tage," Thiel said, adding that it would be much easier to resolicit someone's endorse­ment after he or she had already promised to endorse a certain platform. 
Thiel lost the run-off election to Mark Chapman by the slim margin of 16 votes. 
Thiel introduced an amend­ment to the constitution that would provide a definite penalty for. future offenses against the OBUD rule that prevents campaigning before a certain date. 
The proposed amendment reads: "Any candidate who solicits endorsements before the campaigning period must 
(1) 
forfeit those endorsements; 

(2) 
inform the endorsers that the endorsements are invalid; 

(3) 
and not be allowed to re­solicit any endorsements until so many days after the cam­paigning period begins as the endorsements were solicited early." 


Jim Grace, OBUD co­director, verified thE> claims made by Thiel, but said that he thought penalties should be left open to the discretion of the OBUD directors. 
"I'd hate to see specific penalties assigned for every specific offense that we think of," Grace said. 
The senate will vote on the amendment next week. 
In other business, Brian Holst, student senator, urged senate members to personally research the South African apartheid issue in preparation for upcoming discussion that will lead to a definite senate stand on University divest­ment. 
Holst said that people from the Anti-Apartheid Network and "hopefully" someone from the administration will speak at next week's senate meeting. Both the divestment and status quo positions will-. be represented, Holst said. 
''At that time or the next week we have to declare where we stand as a Student Senate," said Holst. 
In other news, Holst said John Goldrick, associate vice presi­dent for residence life, and Rex Rakow, director of Security, were discussing Holst's crimestoppers idea and would inform ·him by next week of their reactions. 
The Crimestoppers resolu­tion would provide for a mone­tary reward for any pertinent information on a "crime of the week." 


wounded Monday in this West from army bullets, a speaker day to announce the University's increased effort to recruit minorities for un·dergraduate studies. See story
Bank town 10 miles north of rejected the Shultz trip. page 1. Jerusalem and another 





was..----11111!1---------------------------lll!ll--------------• 
page 4 
·Israel fears visit may spur violence 
Associated Press presence will lead to an up­
surge in violence by Arabs 
RAMALLAH, occupied West pressing their case for an end Bank -Angry, defiant Pales-to 20 years of Israeli occupation tinians marked Martyrs' Day of the West Bank and Gaza, in the occupied territories Mon-seized during the 1967 Middle day with graveside speeches East war. and stone-throwing demonstra-The latest spate of unrest tions as they remembered the started Dec. 8 and has resulted 61 Arabs killed in clashes since in scores of deaths, hundreds December. of injuries and arrests. 
Attorney General Yosef Harish, meanwhile, released a (in Kfar Naami, a village of letter to Defense Minister 2;000 inhabitants six miles west Yitzhak Rabin, criticizing of here, about 1,500 Arabs Rabin's policy of allowing sol-marched through the streets diers to beat protesters. chanting anti-Israeli and anti­
"You cannot use force as a American slogans. means of punishment, abuse or In a fiery speech at the humiliation," Harish said. graveside of one of the two vil-
One Palestinian was shot and lage residents who have died 
shot during a demonstration at Jabaliya refugee camp in the Gaza Strip, according to hospi­tal sources. The army said it was checking the reports. 
About 1,500 additional police 
. officers, brought in from throughout Israel, flooded Jerusalem in advance of the visit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz, set to begin Thursday. The reinforcements will back up the holy city's nor­mal contingent of 1,000 officers. Authorities fear Shultz's 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
credits to four to reflect the fact that these classes meet four times a week. Regarding stu­dent life, Reilly stressed ap­proachability. 
"'We will implement only the activities the students desire," stated Reilly. "It's not quan­tity, but quality of activities" that counts. Reilly suggested monthly meetings between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student government officers to improve the activities of P~,.h 
Julie Parrish, Lisa Hill Christy Wolfe stated that they didn't want to completely restructure, but rather to con­tinue the advances of the pres­ent student government. They saw their role as not only leaders, but also as represen­tatives of the Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
"We serve ... to give a stu­dent perspective to the admi­nistrators," said Parrish. They suggested implementing a stu­dent survey similar to Notre Dame's this year to determine exactly what the students wanted. Regarding the diver­sity of the students who attend Saint Mary's, Parrish sup­ported the idea of an exchange with Spellman College, an all­Black women's college, to in­crease awareness of other people. 
Anne Buch, Carol Mahony, and Kim Sartori are the third ticket running for office. They stressed fulfilling the Saint Mary's mission statement, given to all new students as a guide for them and the college. "We, realizing the Saint Mary's mission, will strive to aim above it." 
Buch saw their role as offi­cers as both leaders and a lia­sion. "We are a liasion to the administration, using your ideas and our actions," stated Buch. They would attempt to bring the activities of the Stu­dent Government to the stu­dents. 
FIDELITY Magazine 206 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 
name please print clearly 
a Liturgist" issue plus a one year's · subscription (11 issues) to Fidelity. 
street 
0 $28 for a free copy of your "Requiem for a Liturgist" issue plus a two year's 
city state zip subscription (22 issues) to Fidelity. 
It's Time For A Change. It's Time For Fidelity 
The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1988 
, 
The Observer/Mike Moran 
University President Father Edward Malloy and University Provost Tim O'Meara held a conference Man­
.REQUIEM FOR A LITURGIST 
' 

Endgame Dissent at Notre Dame 
ON August 31, 1987 the head of Notre Dame's liturgy program was discovered in the basement of his home in South Bend slumped against a sofa. He had been shot through the heart with a .357 magnum. Near the body police found whips, handcuffs, a number of weapons, inlcuding two automatic rifles, and several articles of leather clothing of the type worn by those into motorcycles and/or sadomasochism. The head of the liturgy program also left a note requesting that he be given no form of Christian burial. 
SO begins a story that is now sending shock waves throughout the Catholic Church in this country. Have you ever wondered why the Church is in. such a mess? Have you ever wondered why the Mass has become a political football? Have you ever wondered where your local liturgy commission gets its crazy ideas? Have you ever wondered where dissent comes from and where it leads? "Requiem for a Liturgist" is not just the story of one influential man's death. It is a cogent account of the entire trajectory of 
dissent -where it comes from and where it leads -and the effect of dissent on the liturgy and the Church. "Requiem for a Liturgist" is typical of the no-nonsense reporting you get month after month in Fidelity. Subscribe now and I'll send you a copy free. 
I have enclosed: 0 $2.00 for one copy of "Requiem for a Liturgist." 0 $15 for a free copy of your "Requiem for 
Tuesday, February 23, 1988 The Observer page 5 


Reagan cautions governors against welfare ·moves 
'
. 
Associated Press governors' bipartisan welfare reform bill in the Senate. 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan instead said he still Reagan cautioned the nation's strongly supported a less costly governors Monday against Republican alternative that the 
pressing for costly federal so­House rejected two months lutions to the problems of wel­ago.fare and child care. He also cautioned the gover-
His remarks to the National nors to go slow on child care,
Governors' ·Association were where both Democrats and labeled a disappointment by Republicans in Congress are Massachusetts Gov. Michael proposing to expand federal Dukakis, a Democratic support and subsidies for 
presidential hopeful, who said working parents. Reagan should be backing the "Maybe it's my conservative 
Violent rains kill hillside dwellers 
mudslides on Friday.
Associated Press 
Civil defense officials 
RIO DE JANIERO, Brazil -A warned that huge boulders and deadly mix of rock and mud rain-loosened earth on many threatened hillside homes hillsides presented an extre~e during a fourth day of violent risk of new avalanches, partic­
rains Monday which have ularly in the crowded shan­killed at least 75 people in the tytown slums that line the hills. Rio area. In the working-class north 
The new danger slowed ef­Rio district of Abolicao, rescue forts to reach a buried roomful workers used sledgehammers of children and prompted the and spikes to break up concrete 
' mayor to order hundreds of slabs of a three-story apart­residents to "get out while ment building that collapsed there's still time." under a mudslide Sunday night, killing at least nine resi­Mud-caked survivors flashed dents. thumbs-up signs as they were Fourteen people were taken carted away on stretchers, alive from the rubble. Televi­while rescuers moved gingerly sion crews broadcasting live about the unstable hillsides in from the site showed survivors the city. covered with yellow-brown Scores have died there since mud flashing thumbs-up signs the heavy rains began trigger­as they were borne away on ing sporadic floods and stretchers. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
For further information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 
CLASS OFFICE AND OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER ELECTIONS 
FOR TiiOSE INreRESTED IN DECLARINO 1liEIR TICKET CANDIDACY FOR nm OFFICES OF DfE O.ASSES OF 19 yo ANIJ:'il JJJESE QATES ARE OF GREAT IMPORTANCE· 
MANDATORY Meccinc for Dc:c1aRd Candiducs: 
TIJE.SDAY, Fcbnwy 23 6:00pm NOR Dame Room, 2nd Ooor LaFortune 
~ririons Required fdr Candidacy Due: FRIDAY, Pcbnwy 26 
12:00 aooa In lhe Shldcat Government Offices, 
2nd floor LaConunc  
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS: CAMPAIGNING ENDS:  ruESDAY, Maclll MONDAY, MGda 7 amldni&ht  
EUCUON DAY:  TIJE.SDAY, March 8  
Runoff Campaiplinc (Ifncx:asuy) Runoff Elcclion (Ifacccssuy)  Wednesday, March 9 1banday, March 10 ~ .r.t. _&l .~"JJliW(qj{lf}ftlf[  ~  

l .....................~a~~o~~-~~~ 
.... ...
~ 
bent, but I can't help but feel Reagan said the alternative Howard Baker, Reagan'suneasy sometimes," he told the bill sponsored by House chief of staff, said Reagangovernors gathered in the East Minority Leader Robert Michel would veto. the House-passedRoom of the White House. would also give states freedom welfare reform bill, but mightWelfare programs have be­to "develop your own ideas on approve a less expensive mea­
come "a crippling poverty child care." sure still being shaped by the trap ... They keep the poor Mterward, Dukakis told Senate Finance Committee. poor," Reagan said. "Now, reporters that he was very dis­The governors are pushingmuch of the push for child care appointed. Sen. Daniel Patrick is designed to rectify the ills of "Just one word from the pres­Moynihan's bill, which would earlier programs, and many of ident, I think, would get this bill toughen enforcement of child these efforts are timely and passed and done before the support, help states pay for job good. But in this area, more election and get it off the table training and make participa­than any other, government as a partisan issue and get tion mandatory for most un­should tread carefully." going," said Dukakis. employed adults. 


University recommendations to· increase minority enrollment 
Recommendation 1: The University establish a volun­science and engineering in­University commit itself to·· tary affirmative action plan tents. a comprehensive plan to in-that would make available a 
. crease minority presence at . certain number of new fac­Recommendation 10: The the University among stu~ ulty positions for the ap· Graduate School aim to dents, faculty, and adminis· pointnient of black scholars. double its minority enroll­tration. A senior adminis· ment over the next five tator be named to Recommendation 6: The years. To accomplish this implement this plan. University undertake a new end, a full-time minority 
and comprehensive effort to recruiter be added to the , Recommendation 2: Notre ensure that social life on staff of the Graduate School, 
e 
Dame establish the goal campus become more invit· that new and competitive over the next five years of ing for minorities. minority fellowships be es­. building a minority presence tablished, and that the Uni­among undergraduate stu­Recommendation 7: The versity consider establish­dents of 6% black, 6% University undertake a ing a program of Hispanic: and 1% native serious program to educate dissertion-year fellowships American. the majority--faculty, staff, for minority graduate stu­
and students alike--to be­dents. Recommendation 3: Notre come more sensitive to cul­Dame should commit itself tural differences among stu­to a stable and competitive dents and to promote an Recommendation 11: The financial aid plan for environment free from any University give serious at­minority students that can kind of discrimination. tention to sustaining and in­be communicated to creasing minority alumnilae prospective applicants. Recommendation 8: Each involvement--in regular 
undergraduate college as­alumni affairs, in student 
Recommendation 4: The sume responsibility for es­recruitment, and in interac­University reconstitute its tablishing academic support tion with current students. affirmative action systems for minority stu­procedures for faculty and dent&, drawing together the 
administration so that the talents of interested stu­Recommendation 12: As senior -administrator be­dents and faculty alike. part of comprehensive plan come actively engaged in Recommendation 9: The · to grow as a multicultural the process of hiring, ensur­Office of ·the Freshman community, the University ing that every effort is made year, in conjunction with the develop a strategic plan of 
Colleges of Science and public relations to project to bring minorities into. the Engineering, develop an in­this commitment to its own active pool of candidates. tensive support system for constituency and the 
Recommendation 5: The minority students who are broader public. 
minorities will not be lowered, academic and social programs O'Meara said, but minorities will be mounted to raise the
Recruit "might have one course or two consciousness of Notre Dame 
continued from page 1 at a different pace." students to minority concerns, Associate Provost Father O'Meara said. with other students who had the Oliver Williams, who will head During the year, Williams advantage of high-quality in­the program, said he will first said, distinguished minority struction," Malloy said, "we "sit down and listen to minority speakers will be invited to the have tried other pathways to students." • University. make sure they don't prema­This will be followed by what "The (plan) does embody turely drop out of the so-called O'Meara calls "The Year of very much the whole sense of harder programs." Cultural Diversity." Starting the committee report," said 
Graduation standards for in the fall, full-scale pastoral, Nathan Hatch, chairman of the Committee on Minority Stu­dents and associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
"I think the key element was the comprehensive plan over­seen by a high-level adminis­trator," said Hatch. "That's 


The Observer 
Typesetting Service is accepting 
what minority alumni have 
been calling for, for some time now. "The only controversial deci­
applications for the following positions: 
CONTROLLER 
sion was whether there should have been a minority to head up the plan," he said. "That 
DORM REPRESENTATIVES 
ACCOUNTS MANAGER 
would have been ideal but it
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE__! RECEIVABLE CLERK 
was more important to get something done immediately.'' 
Applications should include a personal statement and brief resume. 
James Dillard, a black fresh­
Deadline for applications is Friday, February 26.. 
man from Flanner Hall, said it doesn't matter that Willaims is not a minority. It depends on the person, he said, and their
For further information contact 
committment to change.

Chris Hasbrook 
"It's about time" Notre

at The Observer (239-5303) 
Dame attempts to increase minority enrollment, he said . 
page.6 The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1988 

Kaplan 
continued from page 1 
professional tests, achieve­ment tests, and one's perfor­mance on them depends on the quality and number of related courses the student has taken prior to the standardized test." 
Father Joseph Walter, chair­man of preprofessional studies, echoed Waddick's comments, especially regarding the MCAT. 
"If a student without the Kaplan course would not sit down and prepare (on his own), if the student lacks the self­discipline to study the books of practice tests, then the courses may be worth the cost," said Walter. "The courses are really a kind of imposed self­discipline. If a student can prepare alone, studying a few hours a week for several months before the test, he will score as well as Stanley Kaplan students." 
As proof, Walter related the following story. In 1977, there were no Stanley Kaplan ser­vices in South Bend and a Notre Dame student interested in the Kaplan services had to go to Chicago, meaning that only. one or two students each year took the Kaplan courses. A decade ago the average MCAT score for Notre Dame preprofes­sionals was 59, said Walter. 
Now, with a local Kaplan of­fice just minutes from campus, almost half the 200 or so stu­dents take the Kaplan course but Walter said that the average score is still 59. 
"The academic courses one takes are important to one's success on the MCAT," said Walter. "Advanced chemistry and biology classes in addition to required classes adequately prepare the student for the MCAT." 
On the other side of the debate, Kaplan people speak of the value of their courses. Eleanor Kesim, administrator for the South Bend and In­dianapolis testing centers, em­phasized the unequalled re­search materials and assorted resources the Kaplan centers offer their students. 
"Ours are top-of-the-line courses for those serious about getting into the best schools," 
I . Kesim said. "We have been in 
I business since 1938 and have taught millions of students at our 126 centers throughout the world. And it is our feeling that a general review prior to the test, no matter what level the student is at, will make a dif­ference." As evidence, Kesim cited Kaplan Center studies that have indicated that taking a Kaplan course will improve the Scholastic Aptitude Test taker's score by 100 to 300 points, out of a possible 1600. On the LSAT, a Kaplan course will make a difference of ap­proximately six points, out of a possible forty-eiJZht. Concerning the controversy over the cost of the various Kaplan courses, Kesim con­tended that several hundred dollars is but a small fraction of a student's total college ex­penses, especially at a private university such as Notre Dame. Furthermore, said Kesim, scholarships are avail­able to students demonstrating financial aid from their college or university. This aid will cover up to a maximum of 50 percent of the cost of the Kaplan course. 
"Our courses are a very minor cost of a college educa­tion. And when one considers the fact that the better the graduate school the student gets accepted into, the higher will be that student's income upon graduation, the cost is more than justified," said Kesim. 
Why then the general dissat­isfaction with the Kaplan courses? Peter Grande, associ­ate dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and an expert on standardized testing, is still not sold on the Kaplan courses. 
"I am not that enthusiastic about the Stanley Kaplan ser­vices," said Grande, "espe­cially because of the costs. Stu­dents serious enough can do well on the tests if they have enough time for repeated prac­tices such as sample tests and self-help manuals for three or four months prior to taking the standardized test. That is the best way to go. A Kaplan course, on the heels of a test, would have limited value. The only real value a Kaplan, crash-course approach can have is to prepare the student in the sense that the individual has done all he could possibly do to prepare for the test. And that is not a trivial psycholog­ical advantage," Grande said. 

Kidn-apped ma-rine on tape 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -The kid­nappers of a U.S. marine offi­cer released a videotape Mon­day in which he recited their demands, including withdrawal by Israel from its border "security zone" in south Lebanon. 
Lt. Col. William Higgins, who appeared to be reading from a text written by his captors, said President Reagan "has to take responsibility for the crimes he has committed against the op­pressed people in the region." 
Higgins was abducted last Wednesday on a highway south of Tyre, the ancient port 50 miles south of Beirut. 
A group calling itself the Or­ganization of the Oppressed on Earth, which claimed respon­sibility for the abduction, released the 70-second tape. 
The kidnapping increased friction between two Shiite Moslem forces vying for domination in south Lebanon: the moderate Amal militia, which is trying to rescue Hig­gins, and Hezbollah, or Party of God, which is loyal to Iran and is believed to be an umbrella for groups holding most of the 25 foreigners mis­sing in Lebanon. 
Amal militiamen and troops of the U.N. peacekeeping 'force in south Lebanon, using dogs, searched the caves and groves of the Tyre area for the sixth day Monday without result. 
Higgins is commander of the 76-man Observer Group­Lebanon attached to the U.N. 
interim Force in Lebanon, or UNIFIL, the south Lebanon peacekeeping force. 
Hezbollab claimed the 43­year-old Marine from Danville, Ky., was removed from the area despite a dragnet by Amal and U.N.. security officers. Release of the tape, delivered to a Western news agency in Beirut, suggested the abduc­tors were able to get Higgins out. 
• The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For further information contact 
Kevin Becker at The Observer (239-5303) 
, 


The Notre Dame Finance Club Presents THE THIRTIETH ANNUAL FINANCE FORUM 

Monday, February 22, 1988 Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4:30 p.m. ROBERT J. DAVIS 
Managing Partner 
Crimson Capital Company ''Fundamentals Coun_t in Buyouts" 


Tuesday, February 23, 1988 127 Nieuwland Science Building 4:30p.m. ROBERT V. WELCH 
Chairman 


Landmark Financial Corporation ''Entrepreneurship in Private Industry'' 
Each presentation will be followed by an informal reception. Students, faculty and general public are encoura ed .to attend. 
·-· .. ·~· · ......... -. ·. u ........ 

-~--­







Viewpoint
Tuesday, February 2~. 1988 paoe 7 
Parrish ticket deserves your vote 
Experience, competence and a realistic approach set the ticket of Julie Parrish, Lisa Hill and Christy Wolfe apart from their oppo­nents in the race for the 1988 Saint Mary's student body offices. 
The task of the Student Government Association requires dedica­tion to produce results in implementing programs, reviewing College policy and motivating students to participate in events and decisions that directly affect the student body. 
This dedication is best represented in the Parrish ticket. 
Julie Parrish brings the experience of holding a student body office at Saint Mary's. Having served as vice president of academic affairs and college relations, she is familiar with the administrative chan­nels of communication necessary to efficiently pursue student goals. Lisa Hill's experience on the Board of Governance and Christy Wolfe's involvement on the Academic Mfairs sub-committee on stu­dent diversity contribute to the overall competence of the ticket. 
The goals addressed in their platform are realistic in content as well as in approach. Their attitude is relaxed yet confident in present­ing them to the student body. Their efforts are sincere to include student input in their decisions and they are willing to raise student awareness of both the issues and events in the community. 
The Parrish ticket emphasizes the value of student input. This input should begin Wednesday with a vote for Julie Parrish, Lisa Hill and Christy Wolfe. 

-The Observer 

JUMt 

,--. 
Doonesbury 
AACR ?ENIU!i/31<'5, H& NO t.ONG&R N&&l/5 HIS !<&STRAINING JACKET! 
I 



Ihe Observer 

Managing Editor .. .. . . ...... Mark Pankowski
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dsme, IN 46556(219)239-5303 

News Editor... . ......... Chris Elednarski News Editor .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. . . .......... Jim Riley The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Viewpoint Editor. . . .. . ... . . . Chri'.Murphy Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Sports Editor . . . ....... Denms Olm~gan lhe adm1mstration of e1ther institution. The News is repor111d as accurately and objectively as 
Accent Editor. . ... . . . Michael Naughton possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board 
Saint Mary's Editor. . ...... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor ................... Jim Carroll IS aveulable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners. is encouraged. 
OlJK£'5 NW 5ei-F-CONTROL.. 15TH& PF()lJ(JCT OF REAL  A/.'30, THAT NOVOCAIN  NOU/,NOW. I.£T'S NOTALARM  
COURA6f3 ANOA LOTOF  INJUT/ON  Tfi&OTHER  
HARP U/ORJ<, RIGHT, l?UKE~ I  INTO MY5/<lJU. PROBABl-Y  PATIEN7"5! I  
OION'T  
HUI<T.  
\  

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .. . ...... Kevin Becker 
Privacy better 
Dear Editor 
I write out of ambivalence about the 
article in Thursday's Observer about a 
staff member's medical leave. On the 
one hand, I found the article to be very 
objective and mostly accurate, with 
sensitivity to its subject matter. It was 
well balanced, and certainly made 
clear that the issue under consideration 
is a disease. 
On the other hand, I have serious 
reservations about the wisdom of the 
editorial board in running the article at 
all. The information reported in the ar­
ticle was privately given to the mem­
bers of Fisher Hall, so that they would 
know the status of an issue that directly 
affects their lives. The article leaves 
open an assumption that it was given 
at a press conference. As the represen­
tatives of The Observer who were pres­
ent by virtue of their association with 
the hall were told, the matter of medi­
cal assessment is considered by the 
University to be private and confiden­
tiaL There was no need for the public 
to know of an individual's private medi­
cal decision. 
If every public person considering 
medical assessment were to know that 
his or her decision would be reported 
in the campus newspaper, he or she 
would not be as willing to pursue diag­
nosis and required treatment. 
It will never be my intention--and I 
fully trust that it will never be the in­
tention of the University administra­
tion, either--to make public what is es­
sentially a private matter. That the hall 
had a need to know about what was 
going on can be defended. I have 
serious doubts that the decisions of per­
sons associated with the hall who are 
also reporters and editors can be. 
Please reflect on your decisions in this 
light. 
Moreau Seminary 
February 21, 1988 

Women's Caucus urges input 
Dear Editor: 
As you might already know, there is now a Women's Caucus at Notre Dame for women and men feminists and po­tential feminists. Feminism is a philos­ophy held by both women and men 
Garry Trudeau 

P.O. Box Q 
should be, respected 
"Each day comes bearing its gifts, untie the ribbons." 
Ann Ruth Schabacker 
which believes that women ought not 
be discriminated against socially, 
politically, economically or religiously 
because of their gender. It doesn't 
mean that women want to climb the 
patriarchal or hierarchical ladder and 
fit into men's world. Feminism is about 
the transformation of society. As the 
feminist Anica Vesel Mander states, 
"We see a universe where everything, 
and we mean literally everything, is 
integrated and interdependent, not 
separated and conflicted." This means, 
for example, that we do not see women 
and men as opposites who are in com­
petition against each other, but rather 
as humans with various types of per­
sonalities and capabilities who are fun­
damentally connected to and dependent 
upon each other, the earth and, for 
many feminists, God. We reject all 
stereotypes of women and men as well 
as all conquest-oriented modes of think­
ing. 
As feminists, we believe that sexism is a serious, deeply imbedded problem and work to eliminate it. We define sexism as the belief that sex is the pri­mary determinant of one's human traits and capabilities and that sexual differences produce an inherent supe­riority of one sex. And we hold that, like racism, sexism is evil. 
An article in the Dec. 21, 1987, issue of Time magazine serves to illustrate the seriousness and enormity of just one aspect of the problem. It states: "An estimated 2 million to 4 million wo­men are beaten by husbands or boyfriends each year, more than are hurt in auto accidents, rapes or mug­gings. The FBI says that every four days a woman is beaten to death by a man she knows welL" 
Based on a survey given to all inter­ested persons, the Women's Caucus will focus on individual and campus consciousness-raising and working for changes in the NOOMC institutions to ensure justice for women, as well as being a support group for feminists. In these endeavors, we hope to work with the administration, not against it. 
The Women's Caucus invites faculty members, staff members, graduate students and undergraduates from both campuses to our meetings that are held every other week. Inquiries can be ad­dressed to: Women's Caucus, oo Mail­room, Administration Building. 
Chenoa Seaboy Lyons Hall Women's Caucus February 18, 1988 


Quote of the Day 
Operations Board 
Bus;ness Manager ............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Pro;ects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager ............................Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... laura Stanton 





Accent 
page 8 



'Slap Maxwell': a real hit 
H
arsh or bitter derision or probably the most popular. tasteless remarks seem to be irony," "a sharply ironical She's a seductive, sassy, "slap­Slap's keys to success; taunt or gibe," and "a sneering happy" woman who loves to however, this quality permeates or cutting remark" are just a tease Slap--even though she's all aspects of the show. few of the ways a dictionary engaged. She's the only The sarcasm is carried as far might define "sarcasm." woman--or person for that as possible without offending However, an avid TV viewer matter--who can truly under­viewers. While some may find may use simply two words to stand (and manipulate) Slap. the humor insulting, most en­
define this term: Slap Maxwell. Nelson is the source of one joy this comedy, which seems to be Dabney Coleman's "claim to fame."
Joe Bucolo 
The second "gem" is even more brilliant than the first.
To be continued... 
"Slap Maxwell" has a continu­ing storyline, which is a rare characteristic of a dramedy. 
"The 'Slap' Maxwell Story," of the show's trademarks: the The episodes do not have indi­airing on Wednesdays at 9:30 "glass eye" jokes. Slap is con­vidual plots, but help to con­p.m., is ABC's new dramedy stantly kidding Nelson about tinue the season's running starring Dabney Coleman. The his glass eye--only the latter storylines. show's central figure, Slap Max­doesn't have one! These scenes In recent weeks, for example, well, is an arrogant, egotistical are funny and clever, and not Slap tries to remarry his ex­sports columnist for a finan­at all insulting despite the fact wife. After weeks of arguing cially struggling newspaper. that they may sound so in and bickering--not to mention Seeing that Slap can only writing. almost getting shot--Slap 
vouch that half the things he Annie, Slap's "ex." is crucial manages to win back Annie's writes are true, it is no wonder to the show since she brings love and she agrees to remar­the paper is in trouble. out what little romance Slap ry. However, in his typically Other characters include the has inside him; yet, Slap con­blunt manner, Slap changes his staff secretary, Judy Ralston stantly annoys her. He pushes mind on the day of the wed­
(Megan Gallagher); Slap's ex­her to such extremes that, in ding, leaving Annie at the altar. wife Annie Maxwell (Susan one episode, she pulls a gun This incident gives rise to Amspoch); Slap's story editor, on him. (Hey, there's someth­"Slap Maxwell's" newest addi­
Nelson Kruger (Brian Smiar), ing Maddie should try on tion to the cast, Shirley Jones. and "The Dutchman" (Bill DavidI) Yes, Mrs. Partridge assumes Cobbs), a bartender. What makes this show so the role of Kitty Nolan, Slap's out a tune to win Slap back. 
The characters are realistic, a appealing? There are two main old flame. Jones adds a much "The 'Slap' Maxwell Story" refreshing switch from so many attributes of the show that put needed touch of class to the and its lead-in "Hooperman" other series' "perfect" charac­it on a level above the rest. show and will make guest ap­make up one of television's ters. Each has a unique per­The first is the sarcastic pearances in several episodes. best hours of viewing. "Slap sonality. Next to Slap, Judy is humor. Sarcasm and seemingly Who knows? Maybe she'll belt Maxwell" is a clever, witty show 
Endowment advances peace studieS 
Associated Press struck by the provocative and continually been in conflict with "This endowment provides a African studies. 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va.-The penetrating nature of his each other," Bill points out. gigantic and generous boost to The center also oversees the widow of a man whose dream ideas," says Dr. James A. Bill, Reves proposed an interna­our program," says Bill. "Our operation of the university's 13 was world peace has found a way a noted authority on the Middle tional federal system whereby a concerns in international study-abroad programs in loca­to further his ideas more than 40 East and director of the center. higher rule by law would wield studies are basic; they deal tions ranging from Europe and years after his international best The major premise of "The ultimate authority. with survival. the caribbean to the People's seller on the subject was pub­Anatomy of Peace" is that as "This international structure "We're interested in studying Republic of China. lished. long as there are nation-states must have the force of law and whether violent conflict is inevi­Mrs. Reves became interested 
Wendy Reves, a native ofTexas with geographical boundaries the agreement of the great table to mankind," he says. in supporting international now living in France, has and competing interests, then powers behind it to be effec­"We're concerned with the is­studies at William and Mary honored her late husband, war is inevitable. tive," explains Bill, who notes sues of war, peace, world or­through her contact with Emery Reves, by committing $3 "His predictions on nation­that Reves was critical of both der, international justice and friends in Williamsburg who million to endow the Center for states have been borne out a the League of Nations and the U.S. foreign policy. Interna­share her late husband's com­International Studies at the Col­half century later," says Bill. United Nations, which he tional studies are designed to mitment to world peace. lege of William and Mary here, "We continue to live in a viol­believed were not equal to the enable us to confront sensi­Frank Shatz, a local newspa­to insure that vital issues on ent world of war and interna­task of keeping the peace. tively and realistically these per columnist, told Mrs. Reves world peace are studied and per­tional conflict." "It may be time to go back kinds of problems." of the university's plans for the petuated. and look at Reves' ideas," says A very basic way of promot­center. Shatz, an emigre from 
"When I read Reves' book. Since the book was pub­Bill. "Perhaps we should re­ing international problem­Czechoslovakia, had read 
'The Anatomy of Peace,' I am lished in 1945, "Nations have examine his perceptive diag­solving is through the study of "Anatomy of Peace" before nosis and then work from foreign languages, says Bill. fleeing the Communist there. With nuclear arsenals "William and Mary already has takeover of his country. ever-present, the stakes in­the foundation of a strong in­"It became my bible," says volved in this enterprise could ternational studies program Shatz, "transforming me into a be no less than human sur­because of its longstanding faithful disciple of Emery vival." emphasis on foreign language Reves." During Shatz' first 
The Reves gift will endow study," he points out. return to Europe, he decided to virtually all of the William and Unlike many universities, visit Reves, "to pay my respects Mary Center's activities. It will William and Mary over the to the man who had so be used to establish a distin­years has maintained its profoundly influenced my out­guished visiting scholar-in­foreign language requirement look on world events." residence program and to fund for graduation. Reves, who was born in Hun­academic conferences, library The Center for International gary and later became a British acquisitions, multimedia re­Studies serves as a coordinat­citizen, invested in European sources, academic research ing office for William and Mary industry after World War II. He and scholarships. undergraduates majoring in was also founder and president 
The endowment also will be international studies; this in­of Cooperation Publishing Co. used to establish a peace prize cludes East Asian, Latin Ameri­and Cooperation Press Service, recognizing an individual who can and Soviet-Russian studies an international syndicate embodies Emery Reves' com­as well as international rela­publishing the views of leading mitment to international peace. tions. A minor is offered in statesmen. Reves died in 1981. 
that proves to America just how stimulating television can be. It's nice to see real situations in which real characters operate... even if one does have a glass eye. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


Business 
• • " ........ 0: ... 

Tuesday, February 23, 1988 
Internships give the experiencethat puts you above the rest 
By STEVE CLAEYS Business Writer 
There are many obstacles be­tween you and that perfect job. 
One is the oldest Catch-22's of the business world. You can­not get a job unless you have experience, and you cannot get experience unless you have a job. Another is when the inter­viewer looks you in the eye and asks, "What can you offer my company?" Or worse yet, "Exactly why do you want to enter this field?'' 
What is an ambitious student to do? 
It all comes down to differen­tiating yourself from the crowd. This also holds true for getting into graduate school. You need something special to make you stand out from the thousands of other applicants. 
An internship is one way of getting into that job or school of your choice. 
Interviewers and admissions committies highly regard in­ternships for several reasons. First, an internship shows that you are definitely interested in your field. Internships also il­lustrate that you can handle the responsibilities of the working world such as being to work on time and getting along with others. Finally, an internship shows that you have ambition because, as we will see, landing on internship is not easy. 
In addition, many personal benefits can also be found in an internship. Internships allow you to explore a field without becoming overly committed. They are a chance to experi­ment and see where your inter­ests lie. An internship also gives you an opportunity to see the working world in action. You experience everything from fighting traffic to office gossip. Most importantly, an internship gives you the con­nections to get the job you want later on. 
The first step in obtaining an internship is to decide exactly what field you want to intern in. 
When choosing a field, keep a number of things in mind. If you are limited to working near home during the summer, rec-
Grants to aid Indiana students 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -A supple­mental financial aid program sponsored by Lilly Endowment Inc. will provide grants to an estimated 4,100 additional stu­dents at private colleges in In­diana this year, the endowment announced Monday. 
Last year the endowment in­itiated a seven-year, $50 mil­lion package of financial assis­tance to ensure that Hoosiers attending public and private colleges and universities in In­diana would pay about the same proportion of their col­lege expnses. 
During the 1987-88 school year, more than 11,000 students received grants under the pro­gram. Those grants averaged $550. 
However, few students at In­diana private colleges ognize that some fields are only found in a few areas. The majority of substantial govern­ment internships, for example, are concentrated in Washing­ton D.C. How much money you need to make is also an impor­tant factor in choosing a field. Generally, private sector in­ternships pay much better than those in the government or with a research institute. Some­times the only internships available in a field hardly pay at all or are voluntary. Re­member, however, that you are not working solely to earn money, but also to gain experi­ence that will pay off in the fu­ture. 
The next step is to look for a company, government agency, or research institute in the field of your choice. 
One way to do this is to use the many internship guides in the Career and Placement Li­brary. Career and Placement also has job announcements for internships along with a packet illustrating how to apply for on­campus internship interviews. 
The Career and Placement Center has two drawbacks though. First, everyone uses it. The positions listed in the in­ternship guides will probably be pursued by thousands of ap­plicants, thus becoming hightly competitive. This also holds true for the positions posted by the Center. A second drawback is that you are exposed only to those employees who have an established and relatively large internship program. This severely limits the number of internships you can apply for. 
A second method to finding an internship is on your own. This can be much more time consuming and frustrating, but often results in a unique and enjoyable internship. Often a company or organization does not consider having an intern until someone applies for an in­ternship, or they may take in­terns but not widely publicize it. 
The basis of a personal in­ternship is sending out as many coverletters and resumes as possible. 
Your coverletter and resume must look professional, and qt1.J1 !lwd for aid under i;he original formula because some of the schools are reasonably priced, Lilly officials said. 
"The supplemental awards represent our attempt to fine­tune our program of financial assistance," said William Bonifield, vice president for education at the endowment. "We never intended to penalize 
the independent colleges that..__________________________ have held the line on costs. 
point out exactly why you would be a worthwhile intern. Always remember that you are literally selling yourself. 
You should be agressive, but not intimidating. Offering to be interviewed is one way to assert yourself without being too pushy. Another method is to follow up your letter with a telephone call a week or two later. 
Your letters should also go out as early as possible. April and May are often too late to start an internship search. Companies tend to give out in­ternships first come, first served. 
One question remains: who do you send your resumes to? Trade magazines, government almanacs, and research jour­nals are one source of names and addresses. 
The most important source of this information, however, are other people. Talk to someone associated with the field, such as a professor. Do not be afraid to draw upon acquaintances, friends of the family, or any other connections you may have. Often these people are more than happy to help out and may lead you directly to an internship. 
The key to getting an intern­ship is to investigate every pos­sible avenue. 
Remember that no intern­ship will be perfect. Sometimes an office will not know what to do with you at first, or mis­judge your abilities. If this hap­pens politely confront your boss about the situtation. Often he or she will not know of your problems unless you point them out. 
Do not be surprised, however, if you are given sec­retarial work, especially during your first few days. Every internship has it's grunt work, be it making copies or delivering packages. 
An internship can be a valu­able experience, both in obtain­ing it and being an intern. No matter what field you intern in or how you get your internship, it will definitely be an asset when you pursue a job or graduate school in the future. 
page 9 

Olympic business a Who, Who?-Chrysler, that's who. The Calgary Games represent the first time that General Motors has not ad­vertised during the Winter Olympics. GM had exclusive rights for car advertising, but decided to pass after ABC asked for a $50 million fee. In addition, GM lost its right of first refusal for the 1992 Winter Games. Chrysler took advantage of the situation by purchasing one-half of the advertising. When Chrysler purchased Amer­ican Motors, the deal included AMC's one-fourth of the ad­vertisin~. Ford Motor Company also has 25 oercent.  
Wholihan and Claeys Business Briefs  
a Dumb Olympic Ads-With the millions companies are spending to advertise during the Olympics, you would think that at least their commercials would be half-decent. Coke, however, wins the Business Brief Annual Stupid Ad Award with their commercial featuring the hockey player and the figure skater. While the idea of an American hockey player skating with a presumably Eastern Bloc figure skater may look good on paper, the commercial comes across as sickenly sweet. Instead of promoting goodwill, this commercial provokes an opposite reaction with its unreality. One Notre Dame student commented, "I'd love to crosscheck that figure skater into the wall." a P.O. Box Z-Business Week reports on a nifty product that those of us who receive volumes of mail will appreciate. AES Technology's new MailSystem opens envelopes and removes their contents. Bundles of 150 envelopes are placed in the system and sprayed with a chemical. The 180 degree heat opens the envelope, while the rest of the unit stacks the contents. AES Technology is pushing the $475,000 machine towards businesses that receive over 600,000 envelopes a month. Roommates should probably chip in for this one. a Student Bashing-Over the past few years students delin­quent in paying off their student loans have been under fire. They are often being portrayed as the prime debtors to the government. An Office of Management and Budget report, however, reveals that while $5.7 billion is owed to the gov­ernment by students, $51 billion is owed in back taxes and tax penalties, and $11.8 billion is owed to the government in unpaid farm loans. Apparently, instead of going after it's largest debtors the government would rather attack students who are politically weak. Such is the price of student apathy. a Master of the Obvious Award-This week's winner is Carrie Dolan. In her feature article on aspirin, the staff reporter for The Wall Street Journal said that chemical com­panies make about 90 billion aspirin tablets a year. Dolan then states, "If all those tablets were stacked on top of each other, they would make a very high stack." Thanks Carrie. How high would that stack be? 284,090.91 miles  
What America is Drinking (estimated billions ofgallons consumed in 1987)  

10 

Source: Beverage Industry 
Wish your friends a happy
Question: How do you reach over 12,000 

birthday with Observer
people daily? .. ·· 

,JMt advertising. JMt
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. 
~ Call 239-6900 C
Call 239-6900. 
~ .... • • •••••• -~ ... ,-... ,· ... ,: • -· • • , -~ ' 

The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1988
page 10 





Streak 

continued from page 16 
against Illinois, with the only victory came from freshman Matt Mergen in reserve. 
On a brighter note, three freshmen went undefeated over the weekend. Phil Leary was 6-0 in foil, Leszek Nowosielski was 4-0 in sabre, and Dave Kirby went 5-0 in the same weapon. Leary and Nowosielsk( fenced against Il­linois, each posting impressive 3-0 records. 
Nowosielski ended the season as the only Irish fencer to have a perfect season (24-0), and he did it as a freshman. 
"Unless we screw them up in coaching, these freshmen can start up a new streak compa­rable to any we've had," said DeCicco, "especially when you have freshmen leading the team in winning percentage (Nowosielski)." 
In foil, Yehuda Kovacs and Derek Holeman both posted 2-1 records, for the only other above-.500 records. 
The team ended the regular season with a 24-1 (.960) record. The 98-meet winning streak is second-longest in Notre Dame history, the longest one being 122 meets over the 1975-80 seasons, all under DeCicco's coaching. DeCicco, however, doesn't-keep track of the streaks. 

"To tell you the absolute truth, streaks are just for the recordbooks," he said. "The only people who they might be important to is the kids. I don't really pay attention to them." 
This weekend, both the men's and women's team will travel to Detroit to compete in the Great Lakes Championships. The men have won the last four Great Lakes Championships and the women the last two. 
WE"DLIKETO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
'llu· \WlrJs \\'l' ll\T ~\· 
11111 a...-Notnt o.me office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, .:cepta claaalfled ec:tw.tlsmg from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a...-Saint M8ry'a office, located on the third floor of tt.oo-Collge Center, accepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday througtt Friday. Deadline for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be snpakl, either In p8f'liOf1 or by mall. The charge Ia 10 oenta per five charactera per ct.y. 
NOTICES 

MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 277· 7406 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Get ready for Spring Break by selling unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan­dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open 7 day&' week 10-5:30. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 277­5014 
WORDPROCESSING'TYPING. CALL PAT 234-5528. 
Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the near vicinity for SPRING BREAKIII Can leave any day. WiN share expenses. Please call Missy 271-0868 
MATH CLUB MEETING DISCUSS SUM­MER INTERNISHIPS AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES. WED P.W. LOUNGE -7:30pm PIZZA $ SODA ­ALL WELCOME 
\ LOST/fOUND I 
IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK RRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST I FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. 
I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­INGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHtHIIIIIIII wHhout my brown leather gloveS I left in 120 O'Shag on that cold Wed.-lay t Oth 2:00pm. II found, please~ £1763 soonlltllllllllll 
LOST--A Hewlell Packard calculator. II you've found one please call Bill at x­1620. 
FOUND RACQUETBALL RACKET COVER IN PW MON 2'15. CALL £2737 TO CLAIM 
REWARD FOR LOST GOLD BRACELET(roundj.IT WAS LOST ON TUESDAY FEB 16, AND A GOLD HEART SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO IT. TO MUCH SENTIMIONTAL VALUE, A PRESENT FROM MY BOYFRIEND. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4178. THANK YOU 
Found: some chick's glasses on the path up from the Grotto to the Ad Building. You're myopic and probably can't read this, but if you still want them, they've got scratched lenses, a clear round frame, and seriously need some tape to hold them together. Call 3204 or 3206 and ask for Bill, Dave, or Matt "The Beast" any time this weekend to claim (or stop by 330034 Holy X Hall). 
TO THE PERSON WHO INADVER­TANTLY PICKED UP OR FOUND MY BLUE VUARNET SUNGLASSES AT CAREER & PLACEMENT PLEASE RETURN THEM TO KATIE AT CAREER & PLACEMENT OR PLEASE CALL SEAN £2265 OR £2263 -NO QUESTIONS ASKED SPRING BREAK WON'T BE THE SAME WITHOUT THEM!I!III 
LOST: PURPLE AMETHYST EARRING in Library Auditorium. Call BETSY-­£27731 
LOST THURSDAY 2'1&118 2 KEYS ON A STAR SHAPED PAPER CLIP NEED THEM BACK REAL BAD. 271-0758 
FOUND: MONEY ON NORTH QUAD. TO CLAIM CALL TARA AT X3724 AND STATE WHEN, ABOUT WHERE AND HOW MUCH LOST. 
$$$$$50 REWARD$$$$ LOST: black leather jacket with fur lining at OC perty Fri. night. If found or know where it Is, please call John at 1 388. no questions asked plus reward 
One gold & pear1 earring either in B-P, Grace, or somewhere in between. REWARDIII Call x1330. THANKSIII MISSING: WOMENS LONG BLACK WOOL 'TWEED COAT FROM SENIOR BAR LAST SAT. IT'S GOING TO BE A COLD WINTER WITHOUT IT. PLEASE CALL MARY 233-5732 
LOST: pair of eyeglasses--brown case with initials DAL on back If found call Dave at 2506 


FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955'255­3684 
4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR­HOOD.475 MO. CALL 277­9097.0THERS AVAILABLE 

WANTED 

Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. Sponsored by the I.U. Club of Notre Dame. 
OVERSEAS JOBS ..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Aale. All llelda. $900-2000 mo. Slght­lng.Free Into. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­ING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT­ING INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM­PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: CAMPUS PAINTERS 2901 CENTRAL STREET EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 312-251-()151 
CAMP WINADU lor boya now hlrtng. High Salary pfua Room and Board. II you -uld like to epend your aummer In M8u., write to: Doug, 290 Brlldlord Dr., C.nlleld, Ohio, 44408 or call 216­533-7497 for mo.. tnlonnatlon. 
• • • RIDE NEEDED • • • To Minneapolis weekend of Feb 26th. Will share expenses. Call Jane at 284­4411. 
Wanted: four riders to anywhere in Florlde, during spring break H interested call • 4085 

Wanted: 4 fun people Anyone looking tor aride to anywhere in Florida during Spring Break call Jim £4085 
DAYTON Ride needed 2!.!6-2!.!8.Call Lisa 2885. 

GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd like a ride any day you're going. Shared expenses. Call Missy 271 -0888 or leave message wtoommate. 
1Need 2 or 4 Vancly GA'a Please call Nancy x4128 
Need ride -Chicago -21.!6 2880 

AIDE NEEDED to Rochester,NY Thr. 3fl0 Allar I 1 am Call Bill £3467 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO WEEKEND OF 21.!6. PLEASE CALL NANCY £2764. 
RIDE OFFERED TO CLEVELAND TURNPIKE EXITS, PITTS. EXITS, OR I.U.P. --LEAVE 31.3, RETURN 3-6--CALL KATRINA 1823 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR VICINITY SPRING BREAK. LEEANN 284-4455 

FOR SALE 

Ia It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government. Gst the !acta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
HELP I CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 
21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. 
COMPLETE PEAVEY PA SYSTEM. IDEAL FOR CAMPUS BANDS. VERY REASONABLY PRICED. CALL MIKE 289-6508 
MUST SELL: TICKET TO TUCSON!! $150. LEAVES CHICAGO 12 MARCH RETURNS 19 MARCH. CALL: MICHELE 2804. 
FOR SALE IBANEZ ROADMASTER BASS $225 NEGOTIABLE 3386 TIM 

TICKETS 

SEX? BEER? MONEY? choose any one in exzchange for VANDERVILT tix. Stu­dent or GA. Call Mark at X1536. 
WANTED: 2 TIX FOR VANDERBILT GAME Call Krlatl 291-9840 
I WANT YOU TO SELL ME EITHER 2 VANDERBILT OR 2 MARQUETTE TICK­ETS. CALLMARCAT288-7105. THANK YOU 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA'S-Mike 1699 
Hey ya'lll4 gorgeous blondes from Van­derbilt are still coming up tor the game II We'll trade one of them for TICKETS to the game, or we'll pay BIG MONEY for them. Call Pat at 277-7571 NOW. GO VOCE GO I 
NEED 3 MARQUETTE GA'S. CALL MARY £3760 

PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COED BICYCLE TOUR8-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. 
Lest Chance For Spring Break '881 Limited apace remalna at South Padre, North Pl8dre, Dayton~~ Beach, Fort Wal­ton Beech and Steamboat, Colorl8do lor aiding. Hurry, Call Suncheae Toura toll tree 1~321-5911 lor raurv• Ilona and lnlonnatlon TODAY. Credit carda accaptl8d. 
Sanibel Sanibel Sanibel 
HELP I I NEED A RIDE TO BALL STATE. CALL LIZ AT 2114-5282 IF YOU CAN HELP. 

Dude 
It's Coke outside of hell too 
Back to you in the booth Dude East 
Cork 
Here's a live report 
The buildings are big 
It's not as nice as South Bend 
Miss me yet? 

JEANNE STIENBRONN (M.D.) CON­GRATSIIIIII I KNEW YOU COULD DO IT 
SOPHOMORESIII FEB.25 IS SOPHO­
MORE 
MOVIE NIGHTT 

AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA. BUS 
LEAVES MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00. GOOD 
MORNING VIETNAM SHOOT TO KILL 
HOPE & GLORY TICKETS ARE $3-0N 
SALE AT THE CLASS OFFICE 
M, T, W, T.(2ND FL. LAFORTUNE) 
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOP­
HOMORES SOPHOMORE MOVIE 
NIGHT 
AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA 

FEB. 25-TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE 
CLASS OFFICE ALL WEEK-$3 
GIVE MISS LUDWIG LIP ON HER BIRTHDAY!! HAPPY B-DAY KAREN! 
DON'T FORGET YOUR TICKETS FOR PURLIEI 
DAVER (BEDITO), Do I know you from someplace? Thank you for THREE YEARS of interrupting my studies, and of loving me. "YOU'RE AWESOME!" Love ya, Your Turkey 
Sam Things are great here It's stop and go from the Trade Center to Broad A lillie fog this morning Oh Oh, There's a Knicks fan down there Whoops, somebody got hit He got hurt bad And those were a nice pair of Sergios too Well, I guess he won't be needing those sneakers anymore And that's traffic 
NEED RIDE to and from Greencastle to Depauw for weekend of Feb. 27. Will share driving and expenses. HELPII x1155-David. 
AAJAX 
NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. Call Missy 271-0888:···---· 
FELICIA... WHAT have you been EATING!? 
LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION BUCH MAHONY SARTORI SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT VOTE VOTE VOTE BUCH MAHONY SARTORI 
SMC VOTE REILLY, CONNERY, MAROZAS FOR STUDENT BODY OFFICERS. 
BENE-FIT A -TTON NATACHA DOYLE-PRES. JACKIE BRODY-V.P. MARIA MARCZAK-SEC. JEANNIE SABIN-TRES. FOR SOPHO­MORE CLASS OFFICE UNITED LEADERS FOR A CHANGE 
Kristin Lewis, I'm the founder of the Kris­tin Lewis Fan Club of NO. I have been waving at you from several rows up in SEC 5 tor the ENTIRE basketbaU season, AND FINALLY, as the crowd was leaving the Dayton game, I got (I THINK) a teensy weensy wave and a smile out of you. Needless to say, it made my evening. -Your £1 Fan P.S. I love the way you eat popcorn at halftime. 
WE'VE GOT YOU COVERED SAINT MARY'S!! PARRISH HILL WOLFE VOTE TOMORROW FOR STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 
WE'VE GOT YOU COVERED SAINT MARY'S!! PARRISH HILL WOLFE VOTE TOMORROW FOR STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 
Intense. 
Things We Won't Miss VI: 
"Do you have 50 cents I can borrow?" 
Things I'll miss: L.S.'s voice in bed on Saturday mornings. 
GONG SHOW 
Audltlona 
GONG SHOW 
Auditions for next month's Sophomore 
Class Gong Show to benefit St. Hedwig's 
Outreach Program will be held Mon Feb. 
29 and Wed Mar. 2 from 8:30-11 p.m. 
in Crowley Hall. Applicants should call 
the Class Office at 239-5225 and leave 
their name and number. 
GONG SHOW 
Auditions 
GONG SHOW 
BERNIE 
BERNIE 
BERNIE 
THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK 
YOU. WE REALLY APPRECIATE 
YOUR HELPING OUT SATURDAY 
NIGHT. YOUR THE BEST ... YOU 
HONORARY JUNIOR,YOUII LOVE 
YOU, 
HEIDI I THERESA 
HEY STOLPMANII!Let me tie you down. I'm into bondage! 
RIDER(S) NEEDED TO MIL­WAUKEE-STEVEN'S PT. 21.!6 -21.!8, CALL MELINDA £4117. 
TOM, BOB, TIM, SHAWN, JOHN, BRIAN, JOE, RICH, THANKS FOR THE GREAT NIGHT AT MOTEL 61-THE PE 4:45ERS JOY THANKS FOR THE GREAT SER­VICE AND THE EXTRA BOTTLES OF WINE AT JPW DINNER. LET'S GET TO· GETHER SOMETIME. WRITE BACK IF INTERESTED! D. 

Wise old man say-Behind every SNAP is a Lace Teddy 
FRIDGE DANCER, I COULD BE FAL­LING FOR YOUR DISTORTED LIT· HUANIAN WAYS. IT MUST BE THE DEEP SEXY VOICE. YOUR KAMIKAZEE PILOT 
HEY TIM BROWN AND 1987-BB IRISH THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES 
DAN-0, HELLO ... AGAINI 2 words that say everything. HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIDII You're a spacial friend. LDve, Maureen 
ANDREA, TOO BAD HE FINALLY OPENED THE LANGUAGE LAB ON SUNDAY. TALKING WITH YOU WAS MUCH MORE FUN. MR. RUSSIAN X2318 
SMC CLASS OF 1990 GO OUT AND MAKE A DIFFERENCE AND VOTE TOMORROW FOR LISA CATENACCI-PRES. TARA MELICHAA-V.PRES. CAROL BERKOWSKI-SEC. DEIRDRE MILON-TREAS. 
HEY FRIGS ( CHRIS) TOP FIVE REASONS TO GOTO LOUISVILLE 1. TO PULL V 2. PLAY PHOTON 3. SEE SCOOTER 4. SLAM DUNK CONTEST 
5. ESCAPE JPW 

GOING TO CHICAGO THIS WKND?CONSIDERING IT?PLEASE LET ME JOIN YOU FOR THE RIDE.2885 DIANE 
Mike Norman Yes, so I "forgot" to talk to you again in class yesterday, how about a chance to make H up at PWs SYR on Friday? the gir1 from first aid 
Rocking chairs are line lor old men, but young ladies like me prefer something with a little more SNAP. I'm sure that you (with all ofyour experience) can think of something a little more exciting lor next weekend. 
I need 2 or 4 Vandy GA'a 
Pleaae C.ll Nancy x4128 

KATHERINE, THANKS FOR A GREAT WEEKEND IN YOUR LUXURIOUS ADA HIDEAWAY!! WE ENJOYED SLEEPING WITH CHUMMY AND THE GANG. LOVE, THE "LOVE QUAD" 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL RELIGIOUS COMMISSION INVITES YOU TO HEAR FATHER JAMES BURTCHAELL, C.S.C SPEAK ON ''THE ISRAELI­PALESTINIAN CONFLICT." THE TALK WILL BE GIVEN TOMORROW, FEBRUARY 24 AT 9:30PM IN ST. ED­WARD'S FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE. 
Congrata Shirley -The Obsarver'a MCond winner ol Sunny 101 Nama that Lunchtlma Gold. The dynaaty ralgnalll 
Earn up to $5,000 thla achool year man~~glng on-campua marketing, pro­grams lor top national companlee. Flexible part-time houra. Must be a Jr., Sr., or Grad atudent. C.ll Rand! or Dee at (800) 592-2121. 
STUDMUFFIN O'GARA STUDMUFFtN O'GARA STUDMUFFIN O'GARA WHEN CAN I GET ONE OF YOUR FA­MOUS OMELETTES!II! 
BERNIE SHILTS BERNIE SHILTS BERNIE SHILTS SOMETIMES SOMETHINGS CAN GO UNSAID 
HEY, INTERVIEWEESII Forget black or grey suits with burgundy shoes, black shoes are called for! Yves S. Laurent 
THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME IIIII! Deadline for applications to the Russia­Scandinavia summer study program is March 15. Enjoy Russia and Scandinavia while earning three credits !! For more information and an application, call David at x1155. 
WHO LET THOSE FLOWERS ON MY STUDIO DESK ON 2117???????? A.B. 
Lisa (al SUNY Oswego) Only two weeks until I get horne tor break! Would Thursday be all right for dinner? And, by the way, do you Italian food? Your room· mates brother Eric 
Darling sister Karen Where's my Os­wegonian? I miss the Adventures of Cap­tain Milktoast Your somewhat loving bro­ther that sends you the Observer with Calvin and Hobbes inside 
MAJOR CONFUSION NIGHT will be held Wednesday, February 24th at 7:30 in Nieuwland. Studenl Representatives will give a brief talk as well as answer any questions in the areas of Marketing, Finance, Management and Accounting. Ali students facing a "major" decision are invited. 
The bells should ring The band should play 
In response to the news which I heard today. Though I am not sure when I proposed to thee. It seems you have chosen to marry me. Your pear shaped diamond is ordered at last. From polka partner to wife are we spinning too fast. 
Congratulations BIG BRIAN O'GARA on turning twenty-one 
JENNIFER Thanks for the greal weekend! MSC 
Beautiful Becky Gunderman It's good to know that you read the personals better watch out 
IT'S NOT JUST ANOTHER DANCE AT THEODORES •••••••• IT'S A BRAZILIAN CARNIVAL 
Ill LIVE SALSA BAND FROM CHICAGO Ill WATCH FOR MORE INFORMATION!!! 
Yes...the rumor is true . .St. Pat's Week is Coming...Get GREEN! 
Obviously,you have a drinking problem! hed a horse named Tin..OUDE Ill loaf of Sugar? 
GEORGE: I had a great time Sat. night. Hope you did too-B 
CONGRATULATIONS SENATOR CHAPMAN For winning the election, but more im­portantly for proving that the promotion of sell rather than attempting to cause the downfall of another is what breeds winners. CONGRATSI P.S.I LOVE YOU! 
ATTENTION: Chris Murphy:Observer employee of the month. Thanks a mill! From your phone pal at SMC. P.S. WE WON!!! 
BRYN HAUGH; HEY EVERYBODY CALL THE WOMAN WITH THE SWORD AND WISH HER A HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAYIIIII LOVE, RIE RIE, MAG­GOT, FRUIT LOOP AND ZARD 
BRYNOLAHAUGH EXCUSE ME, WHAT'S YOUR LAST NAME? HOW ABOUT ME AND YOU-A CAN OF DIET COKE A CAN OF TAB-THE LATEST ISSUES OF GLAMOUR AND COSMO­A BOTTLE OF DARK RED NAIL POLISH-AND BOW WOW WOW ON THE TAPE MACHINE??? IT'S GOT POSSIBILITIES!! HAPPY B-DAY, LOVE THE ONE AND ONLY CAPT. ZARD 
CLASS OF 1990 SMC VOTE LIZ HASSEL SARA MANTEl MELANIE TAGHON GINA SPEZIALE 
SMC JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS HASSELl MANTEl! TAGHONI SPEZIALE! DON'T FORGET TO VOTE FEB 24 SAGA 
I KNOW IT'S GETTING OBNOXIOUS. BUT WE REALLY WANT THEM TO WIN SO REMEMBER. .. HASSEL MANTEl TAGHON SPEZIALE FOR JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS. GOOD LUCK YOU GUYS! LOVE JO, ANNIE, AND GERTIE 
CJ IS IT TOO LATE TO "DISCUSS THE ISSUES?" X3896 CHRISTINA 
-~ -~~---­
-------------~--~-­
Tuesday, February 23, 1988 


Temple holds on to top spot in poll 
Led by Temple, the top four teams in The Associated Press college basketball poll remained the same Monday, while Georgia Tech was ranked for the first time since the preseason ratings. 
Temple improved its record to 22-1 on Sunday when it handed then-No. 5 North Carolina an 83-66 home loss. The Owls received 44 first­place votes and 1,231 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters to remain the No. 1 team for the third consecutive week. 
Purdue, 22-2, held second with 10 first-place votes and 1,185 points after Big Ten Con­ference victories over then-No. 13 Iowa and Indiana. Arizona, 25-2, remained third with three first-place votes and 1,114 points, four more than No. 4 Oklahoma, which got five first-place votes after improving its record to 24-2. 
Duke, which received the final first-place vote, improved one place to fifth with 1,001 points. The Blue Devils, 20-3, beat Virginia and Kansas last week, the second game going into overtime. 
Pittsburgh, 19-3, jumped two places to sixth after receiving 930 points after Big East Con­ference victories over Provi­dence and then-No. 18 Geor­getown. 
Michigan, Nevada-Las Vegas, North Carolina and Syracuse rounded out the Top Ten for the week. 
The Wolverines, 21-4, were lOth last week, but jumped to seventh with 831 points. 
Seton Hall 89, Pitt 72 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­-Mark Bryant scored eight of his career-high 32 points in an 18-2 run late in the second half to lead Seton Hall to a 89-72 Big East Conference upset of No. 6 Pittsburgh Monday night. 
Seton Hall, 18-10 overall and 6-7 in the Big East, relied on its defense as much as offense in the late going1 holding Pit­
. tsburgh to just one basket in the final seven minutes in win­ning for the fifth time in six ames. 
The Observer 

'·.·.· 
~ .. 
1._ t 'rf'~ " 

r 'f~ ' 

"* 


~-.... ­

' ..._ 
-~ 

AP PI10IO 
Both North Carolina and North Carolina State from fifth to ninth after being subdued by No. 1 have lost ground In this week's Associated Press Temple, and the Wolfpack dropped from 14th to Top Twenty basketball poll. The Tar Heels fell 18th after losing to Georgia Tech. 

 
DAILY DRINK SPECIALS  
MONDAY 75¢ DRAFf Featuring: Michelob & Miller Lite TUESDAY MARGARIT A VILLE $}.00 off all Jumbo Margaritas only $}.95 75 ¢ shots of Cuervo Gold A Jumbo & a shot for only $2.50 WEDNESDAY HOT SHOT SCHNAPPS NIGHT 75 ¢ shots of "Hot Tropical Schnapps" $1.50 Sunburns & Suntans THURSDAY CORONA NIGHT cross the Border for only $1.25 a bottle FRIDAY Molson & Moosehead 2 Canadian favorites for only $1.00 a bottle SATURDAY Our Top Shelf Golden Margarita made with Cuervo Gold & Cointreau $}.00 off ­Only $2.95 SUNDAY Pitchers of our famous Margaritas for only $4.90  

IIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIADIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

STUDE'S LOUNGE 
Corner of Ironwood and Mishawaka Ave. 
Cordially Invites NO & SMC To Join Us: 

WICKED WEDNESDAY: Frozen of Regular Long Island Ice Teas $2.50 
24 oz Draft Beers Domestic Canned Beers Imported Canned Beers All Shots 
THURSDAY: 

Any Shot 24 oz Draft Beers 
FREE SNACKS 
$1.25 $1.00 $1,75 $1.00 
$1.00 $1.00 
MUSIC-OJ-BEST IN TOWN TOP 40 DANCE MUSIC 


NO COVER 
Across the street from 7-11 Food Mart 

11111111111-IWIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIUIIHIIIIIIIUU 

Globetrotters to visit JACC 
Special to the Observer 
They have been cheered by the millions, from Wagga Wag­ga, Australia, to Walla Walla, Washington, from Manilla to Montevideo to Moscow. And on Friday, Feb. 26, for one perfor­mance only, those Harlequin Houdinis of the Hardcourt, the world-famous Harlem Globetrotters, bring their hilarious brand of basketball magic, as well as their 6,043­game win streak, to the Joyce ACC. 
Tickets for the 8 p.m. show are $10 for lower arena seating and $8.50 for bleachers. They may be purchased from 9 a.m. to 5 p.rri. at Gate 10 of the JACC. 

Eye Exams


ProfessionalVISion 

Large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 



20~ DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 

South of U.S. 23 1635 N.lronwood 277-1161 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1988 

By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Going into last weekend's In­diana Intercollegiates held on the campus of Purdue Univer­sity, the Irish track team had a goal of finishing in the top three. The Irish narrowly missed that goal, however, finishing fourth out of 20 teams behind Purdue, Indiana State and Indiana. 
"We were a matter of a few places out of third place," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. 
The Irish turned in several outstanding performances, in­cluding Mike O'Connor, who placed second in the mile run with a time of 4:09. 
"Mike did a really good job," said Piane. "It was an ex­tremely competitiv~ race." 
The highlight of the meet for the Irish was the 3000 meter run 



Irish 

continued from page 16 
for 23 (48 percent) . The Irish had eight turnovers to sevent for the Bluejays. Notre Dame was a paltry 5 of 12 from the free throw line, but the Irish were able to dominate the boards, grabbing 20 rebounds to only nine (all defensive boards) for Creighton. 
And perhaps the most surprising statistic of the first half was the total of one point for the leading scorers for the two teams, Rivers (one point, 0-6 from the field) and Rod Mason (no points, 0-1 from the field). 
Another big contributor for the Irish in the second half on a night when they could not manage to rid themselves of the stubborn Bluejays was Paddock. The 6-9 center finished with 10 points and 12 rebounds. Paddock kept Creighton from building any kind of lead in the second half with several garbage baskets as he finished with six offensive rebounds. 
"For Scott Paddock to get 12 rebounds and 10 points, that's a perfect game for him," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "He hit some big foul shots, too." 
The Irish finished with a 43-20 
advantage on the boards, in­
cluding a 14-5 bulge on the of­
fensive glass. Voce led the Irish 
with 13 rebounds. 

The Irish may have been in 
some trouble had Creighton not 
matched nearly every Notre 
Dame miscue. But in the 
second half, when the Bluejays had some opportunities to put Bob Harstad led Creighton some pressure on the Irish, the with 12 points, while Rivers led shots just wouldn't fall. 
Notre Dam~ with 13. 

Creighton hit just 12 of 35 second-half shots (39.7 per­cent). · 
Despite the frustrating loss, Creighton head coach Tony Barone was not discouraged. 
"I thought it was a real pos­itive experience for my kids," he said. "Our problem was not executing the shot selection when Notre Dame got up by four." 
AN TOSTAL LOGO CONTEST 

$25 PRIZE 
Logo due 
Fri. Feb 
at SUB office by 3:00 
Indiana, C. Michigan pin losses on ND 
By JOHN GREEN Pearson. Pearson was ranked Sports Writer among the top ten wrestlers in the country going into the meet. 
It was a rough weekend for "Mark really wrestled well," the Notre Dame wrestling McCann said. "He proved that team as it suffered a pair of he is definitely one of the top losses to Central Michigan and freshman wrestlers in the Indiana and saw its duel meet country." record fall to 6-6. Also on Sunday, 142-pounder 
Friday the Irish traveled to Ron Wisniewski won his second Mt. Pleasant, Mich., to meet a match of the weekend, and tough Central Michigan squad. Chris Geneser bounced back Back-to-hack victories by 134-from that controversial loss at pound junior. Jerry Durso and Central Michigan on Friday 142-pound senior Ron Wis­night to pull out a win for the niewski, coupled with wins by Irish at 177 pounds. freshmen MarK Gerardi (158) Despite the losses over the and Todd Tomazic (167), put weekend, coach Fran McCann points on the board for Notre has reason to be optimistic Dame, but the rest of the team about his team. After having came up short as Central Mic-. one of their most intense prac­higan decisioned the Irish by a tices of the season on Monday final count of 27-12. morning. McCann feels that his 
Among the decisions which Irish are ready to bounce back went against the Irish was a against Marquette on Satur­controversial pin by a Central day, and then give a strong Michigan wrestler of Notre showing in the NCAA Dame's Chris Geneser. Regionals and Nationals in McCann claimed Geneser was March. choked on the pin, but the ref­"I said at the start of the eree ignored the Irish coach's season that I expected to be .500 complaints. · in duel meets this year, and 
Things didn't get any better that's exactly where we are for coach Fran McCann's Irish now," McCann said. "Plus, we two days later as they traveled have done very well in our in­to Bloomington for a Sunday af­vitationals this season. We line ternoon meet. The combination up much better in tournament­of a good Hoosier team and a style meets. We are a good, travel-weary squad of Irish solid tournament team. wrestlers proved to be too "Another encouraging sign is much as Indiana pinned a 30-10 that the kids came into practice loss on the Irish. after the Indiana meet with 
Mark Gerardi provided one much improved attitudes. Our of the few bright spots for the spirits are really high now. The Notre Dame on the afternoon nationals are the big time, and when he came through with a we're going to be ready for big win over Indiana's Mike them." 
1988 
Sophomore 
Literary 

Festival 

University of Notre Dame 
. Tuesday, Feb 23 
12:00 pm Conversation with Marilyn Krysl 
and Etheridge Knight Library Lounge 
8: 00 pm Peter Michaelson and Etheridge Knight reading Library Auditorium 

Reception following in .Library Lounge Sponsored by Student Union Board 
• 

where Notre Dame captured three of the top seven places. Senior co-captain Dan Garrett placed first with a time of 8:09, followed by junior Ron Markezich in second at 8: 15, and junior Mike 0 'Rourke placed seventh with a time of 8:37. 
Both Garrett's and Markezich's times were good enough to qualify for the IC4A's. Other Irish athletes placing high in the meet were freshman Jeff Smith, who jumped 23 feet, 7 inches to finish fourth in the long jump. Sophomore Mike Rogan qualified foe the IC4A's in the 800 meters by running a 
1: 52: 98, good enough to place sixth. 
Piane also had some very key performances turned in by sop­homores Yan Searcy and Glenn Watson. Searcy, returning from a recent ankle injury, ran a 1:04 in the 500 meters, and Watson had to ward off some shoving and pushing in qualify­ing for the IC4A's in the 55 me­ter high hurdles with a time of 7:49. 
"Glenn ran a great race " said Piane. "It was a re~l breakthrough for him. It was unfortunate he got slugged around the way he did. I mean, the race resembled the Pitt­Georgetown brawl." 
While the fourth place finish may appear good to the casual observer, the Irish aren't satisfied. 
"Show me a 'coach and a team that is satisfied with fourth and I'll show you a team on its way out," said Piane. "We can run better and we will." 

--~--------~~~------------­
The Observer 
.... 
.-,
' ""= I ' ..._ ~~ < ' 
... 
AP Photo 

Bonnie Blair became just the fourth American sprint Monday. Her world-record time of 39.10 woman to have ever won a medal In a skating edged East German rival Christa Rothenburger. event when she captured the gold In the 500-meter 
CALGARY, Alberta--Bonnie Blair lifted Americans' morale and medals count in speed skating Monday, winning the women's 500-meter sprint in world-record time. 
"I think I just got it on guts," said Blair after becoming only the fourth American woman to win a gold medal in speed skating and the first since Sheila Young won the 500 in 1976. 
"I really didn't watch (Rothenburger) skate, but I did see her time. But this past week I had gone a lap that I knew would be good enough to beat her," she said. "That's what I kept telling myself, that I could go faster." 
It also was the fourth U.S. medal of this Olympics, the second in speed skating, and it 



Soviets, East· Germans dominate medal count 
CALGARY, Alberta--The So­viet Union won the two-man bobsled Monday, and gold was going East at the Winter Olym­pics, where unusual weather forced the Games' lOth postponement in 10 days. 
Sigrid Wolf gave Austria Its third gold medal earlier in the day, setting up a Rocky Moun­tain duel with Switzerland for Alpine supremacy. 
The Swedes, meanwhile, fi­nally won a cross-country race, the 40-kilometer relay, while the Soviets earned a silver as their medal count mounted to 18, six more than East Ger­many. 
The Soviets lead with seven golds, compared with six for East Germany, which won the silver and bronze in the bobsled to raise its medal count to 12. No other country has more than three. 
Of 25 gold medals awarded at the Games so far, the Soviets and East Germans have 13. The Soviets also have one of two triple medal winners, Vladimir Smirnov, who skied the first leg of the cross-country relay. 

Cold, biting winds up to 35 mph forced the second delay of the 90-meter ski jump. Matti Nykanen of Finland, who won at 70 meters, will have to wait until Tuesday to try to become the Winter Games' first double 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION A PROGRAM FOR FRESHMEN WHO WISH TO LEARN MORE ABOUT 
A MAJOR IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
6:30 P.M. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1988 
ROOM 122 
HAYES-HEALY BUILDING 



FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
page 13 
Blair wins gold in speed skating 
jumping gold medalist. He's been waiting since last Wed­nesday. 
Rob McCormack, chief of competition for the event, called the waiting "psychologi­cal torture," and international jumping official Torbjorn Yg­gaseth of Norway said it was "mental cruelty." 
Since the Games began Feb. 13, wacky weather, ususally high winds, has delayed com­petition in men's and women's 

c::=::~==·=-:-: 
Nation 
Soviet Union East Germany Austria Switzerland Sweden Finland United States 
Netherlands West Germany Norway Canada Czechoslovakia France Italy Japan 

provided a measure of revenge for her team. 
Blair's time of 39.10 seconds nipped the world record set minutes earlier by her East German arch-rival, Christa Rothenburger. In the men's 1,500 meters Saturday, Ameri­can Eric Flaim saw his world record last only five minutes before East German Andre Hoffman beat it and took the gold. 
"She looked to me and I gave her the thumbs up," said Flaim, who settled for silver. "She did a heck of a job." 
Rothenburger took the silver behind Blair, while the bronze went to East Germany's Karen Kania, her sixth Olympic medal, in 39.24 seconds. 
downhill events, women's luge, bobsleds and ski jumping. 
Wind had delayed the final two runs of the two-man bobsled competition from mor­ning until afternoon. Soviet driver lanis Kipours had taken over the lead on the second run Sunday as deteriorating track conditions caused by warm weather and blowing sand slowed East German driver Wolfgang Hoppe. 
Hoppe won the silver, his four-run aggregate only .71 seconds behind Kipours 
YMPIC MEDALS TABLE 
Gold Silver Bronze Total 
7 6 5 18 6 5 3 14 3 3 1 7 1 4 2 7 3 0 1 4 2 0 2 4 2 1 1 4 
0 2 2 4 1 1 1 3 0 2 1 3 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 1 0 1 2 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 
= 
Source: Associated Press 



Sports Briefs 
Candidates for cheerleadinJ;! and leprechaun tryouts should attend an organizationaf meeting Sunday, Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium of the JACC. Requirements will be addressed and applications dis­tributed. Instructional clinics will be held the following Mon­day and Thursday evenings. Proof of insurance is necessary · for clinics. For more information, call John Romney (272­8718) or Margo Ball (4068). -The Observer 
ND basketball is the topic on WVFI's "Speaking of Sports." Gary Voce and Joe Fredrick join host Rick Rietbrock and co-host Jamey Rappis from 10-11. Call 239­6400 with comments or questions. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be Sunday, February 28 from 12-4 p.m. 
-~----­

The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1988
page 14 

VQIIeyball Club's success merits promotion 
The Athletic Department recently promoted three women's club sports--soccer, golf and softball--to the varsity level. 
While those programs will definitely maintain the rich tradition of Irish athletics, it seems that the Athletic Department passed on another group deserving of varsity recognition--the Men's Volley­ball Club. 
The Volleyball Club currently is 16-4 and has rolled over most of its opponents in straight games this season. Three losses have come at the hands of varsity programs, programs that have the ad­vantage of recruiting and backing by their athletic departments. 
"We are one of the most successful programs on campus," Irish coach Bill Anderson says matter­of-factly. 
Now it seems that this would be a clear-cut case. The obvious solution is to promote the program to varsity status. In reality, though, the situation is much more complicated. 
Assistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac says the volleyball program applied for varsity recognition and received consideration. The final decision was not to promote the club. 
The main reason for the denial was that only three teams compete on the varisty level in the Midwest -Ball State, Ohio State and Indiana-Purdue Ft. Wayne. Most of the volleyball powerhouses are located on the east and west coasts. 
"Ball State and Ohio State have to go to the coasts to play their games," Boulac said, "and that be­comes an expensive ordeal. There was some con­sideration, but it was not sufficient right now to make a move." 

Sweep 

continued from page 16 
can afford to do that and allow the freshmen and sophomores to compete. They did a beauti­ful job." 
Brian Rini won most valu­able swimmer honors in win­ning the 200, 500 and 1650 frees­tyle events. Dave Thoman won the 100 and 200 backstroke. Bill Jackoboice won the 100 butter­fly, Tom Penn the 100 freestyle and Paul Godfrey the 200 but­terfly. The 400 relay team of Tom Blank, Rini, Sean Barry and Thoman also took first. 
For the women, Byrne was second in the 1650 free and the 200 backstroke and sixth in the 100 free. She was part of two second-place relay teams. 
Christy Moston was a big winner again for the Irish, taking first in the 100 back and the 200 and 400 individual med­ley. She was also part of the winning 200 medley relay team along with Becky Wood, Mary Acampora and Kathy Quirk. 
other winners for the Irish 
included Wood in the 100 and 
200 breaststroke events, Kay 
Richter in one-and three-meter 
diving and Acampora in the 200 
backstroke. 
Monday's Results 

Notre Dame 66, Creighton 54 Creighton (54) M FG-A FT-A R F p 
Gallagher 31 4-10 o-o 3 5 8 Harstad 38 6-15 0-0 4 1 12 O'Dowd 14 0-2 0-0 1 3 0 Farr 29 4-11 3-4 2 4 11 Mason 33 4-9 0-0 3 3 9 Cole 10 1-2 0-0 0 3 2 Moser 2 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Rodgers 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Roggenburk 27 4-7 0-0 2 3 12 . Johnson 15 0-2 0-0 4 4 0 200 23-58 3-4 19 27 54 
FG Pet -.397. FT Pet -.750. Team rebounds -1 . Turnovers -12. Assists -1 0 (Mason 5). 3-point FG-Farr P-1, Mason 1-5, Cole 0-1, Roggenburk 4-6. Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (66) 

M FG-A FT -A R F P Stevenson 27 4-9 2-4 3 2 10 Voce 39 3-7 3-4 13 2 9 Robinson 12 3-5 1-1 4 1 7 Fredrick 33 2-5 4-6 2 1 8 Rivers 34 2-11 9-11 4 1 13 Singleton 6 1-1 3-5 0 0 5 Connor 5 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Ellery 5 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
J. Jackson 10 1-1 0-0 1 1 2 
Paddock 29 4-5 2-3 12 0 10 200 21-46 24-34 39 8 66 
FG Pet. -.457. FT Pet -.706. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -17. Assists -12 . (Rivers 6). 3-point FG-Rivers 0-1. Technicals 
-none. Halftime -Notre Dame 27, Creighton 27. 
The Irish are making one west-coast trip this season, but Boulac says a varsity program would have to make several of these trips during the season to be successful. The cost involved in these trips would be unreasonable. 
"At times, it's really frustrating," Club President Jim Sullivan said, '!because we put so much time into it. We could be a volleyball powerhouse." 
Other varsity teams, however, travel just as much if not more than the volleyball team would. The fencing team holds just one home meet, al­though a number of teams competed in it. The wres­tling team has traveled to Las Vegas, St. Louis, Air Force and Wyoming. The swimming team spent semester break in Arizona and traveled to Boston College and Providence. 
Greg Guffey 
Sports Writer 

True, the fencing team is one of the top powers in the country, but Anderson says his squad could very easily achieve this status. The Midwest Inter­collegiate Volleyball Association of Ball State, Ohio State and IUPU-Ft. Wayne needs one more team· to round out the conference. It looks as if Graceland College of Iowa will join the conference. The winner of the conference gets an automatic bid to the NCAA Championships. 
''They already play each other four times a year," Anderson said, "and that gets redundant." 
Anderson and his team erased any doubts that the Irish could compete on this level Saturday. The team lost to lOth-ranked Indiana-Purdue Ft. Wayne 15-13, 15-12, 15-12, but showed it can be a force on this level. 
"I thought it was the best we played all year," Anderson said. "The players are not intimidated any longer. They finally decided to pull it together. It was the first time in Notre Dame volleyball his­tory that we scored double figures against a varsity team. We definitely are ready to move up." 
Anderson contends that other Midwest club schools are waiting for someone to make the first move before going varsity. 
"If Notre Dame goes varsity, I look for other schools like Michigan to go varsity," Anderson predicts. "Michigan State is on a one-year program this season." · 
The Irish have proven they can compete with varsity teams. This team is as competitive as any at Notre Dame and draws bigger crowds than any of the sports promoted earlier in the year. I'm not saying that the volleyball team is more deserving than these sports. That's not the point. 
The Athletic Department should review the case again, disregarding the issue of money. This time the decision should be based on the ability of the team to compete against the top teams in the country. 
At the present, the program is not improving by playing other club teams that have no intention of advancing to varsity status. The men's volleyball team could be one of the top powers in the country, bringing more recognition to Notre Dame. 

The American Express® Card can play a starring role 
virtually an)'Where you shop, from Thlsa to Thailand. Whether you're buying a1\' or aT-shirt. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. 
College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now Whether you·re a freshman, senior 
or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. 
The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without lt5"' 
ll
lllAVEL 
RElATED 

o SERVICES 
i I I 
L 
Tuesday, February 23, 1988 The Observer page 15 



Campus 
Tuesday 
12 p.m.: Brown Bag Kellogg Institute Seminar, "Private Voluntary Organizations and the Poor: The Case of Haiti," by Professor Anthony Catanese, DePauw University and Guest Scholar, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Decio Hall. 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Department Graduate Seminar, "Ther­modynamic and Mass Transfer Aspects of Membrane Formation," by Dr. A.J. McHugh, University of Illinois, Urbana, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 4:15p.m.: Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values Lecture, "Values and Environmental Decision Making," by Professor Douglas McClean, Univer­sity of Maryland, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "How Animals Survive Freezing," by Dr. Ken Storey, SMC, Carroll Auditorium. 7 p.m.: Information on the SMC London and Rome Summer Program, by Dr. Anthony Black, SMC, Carroll Auditorium. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, Landow I Snow Program, 50 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium. 8 p.m.: Sophomore Literary Festival, Peter Michelson and Etheridge Knight will give a joint reading from their works, Library Auditorium. 9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Bitter Rice," 1949, BW, 93 minutes, directed by Guiseppe de San tis, Italy, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's French Bread Pizza Fried Chicken Make Your Own Burrito Bar Beef Burgundy over Noodles Egg Foo Young Fresh Vegetable Quiche Top Round au jus Deli Bar 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Musical symbols 
6 Intense 1 0 -we forget 14 C'est ­15 Author Leon 16 Ms Adams 17 Fight place 18 -Tyler Moore 19 Abominable 20 Predicament 22 Level of 
command 24 Authority 26 Unorthodox 
doctrine 27 Calif. city 30 Dwarf 32 Ore deposit 33 Remove rind 35 Book of maps 39 "I -Camera" 40 Old-timer 42 Anger 43 Fla. city 45 Br. pirate 46 Forearm bone © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 47 Peruvians 
All Rights Reserved 
49 Coach 




51 Chink 54 Country on 
Hispaniola 56 Stetson strip 58 Infatuated 
with 62 Gumbo 63 Charged 
particles 
65 "No man Is an Island" poet 
66 On an even ­67 Hint 68 Upright 69 Biographer 
Leon 70 Posted 71 Snicker-­6 Athos' creator 7 Period 8 Shamrock 
land 
9 Hitchcock classic 10 Hare In Its 
first year 11 Roman judge 12 Fodder places 13 Small 21 Nearsighted 
one 23 Macho male 25 Hideous 27 Apartment 28 City In ltalla 29 Dutch treat 31 Schmo's kin 
34 Aleutian 41 Concede 

DOWN laland 44-machine 1 Attired 36 Happy tune 46 Fabled animal 2 Gull suborder 37 Florence's 48 Dlstrusters 3 -Knlevel river 50 Plano pieces 4 Skill 38 Cauterize 51 Congest 5 Popeye or 40 "Wheel of 52 Gathered 
Bluto Fortune" lady leaves 


Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 

...11Nll1HI1T'5 
1H€ WilY I W!Ni ... 
Tl/650AY, F£8. 23, PRIMA 1988. COr/1?11&€/ lliiNNI1. !Jri5H 15A NOOa£ 
0 
0 

53 ".•. as lovely 
as-" 55 Plus Item 57 Give out 59 Leg joint 60 In the past 61 Seines 64 Sister 
MOVIES THIS WEEK SPONSORED BY SUB 
WEST SIDE STORY  ANIMAL HOUSE  
Wed & Thurs  $2.00  Friday and Saturday  
8 & 10 pm  Cushing Auditorium  8 & 10 pm  

Sports

~?_age 16 Tuesday, February 23, 1988 
Singleton sparks lllini end ND fencers'
Irish to victory 
streak at 98
By RICK RIETBROCK found Paddock for a stuff and Assistant Sports Editor and a foul. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO
Singleton ended his furious With just over seven minutes four-minute spree in rousing Sports Writer remaining in the contest, Notre fashion when he stole the ball 
In what proved to be the only Dame was clinging to a two­from Rod Mason and took it the a near-perfect
point lead over Creighton. The length of the court for a layup. blemish on record (24-1), the men's fen­Irish needed a big play from And then he returned to his cing team lost to arch-rival Il­their point guard--and Tim familiar spot on the bench to linois on Saturday, ending their Singleton responded. watch Rivers take care of the three-season reign over not just In just over four second-half lead. 
Illinois, but all their regular­minutes, Singleton scored four "Singleton hurt us," said season competition.
points, handed out two assists Creighton head coach Tony Going into the meet the menand added a steal to lead Notre Barone. "Singleton was the key held a 97-meet winning streak, Dame on an 11-2 run that gave to the game. He's got great, dating back to 1984. That streak the Irish a 56-45 lead. They great quickness. I was not ended on Saturday.
went on to take a difficult 66-54 aware that he was as quick as Easily making their way
win. he is." 
through Purdue 24-3 at the com­The Notre Dame run oc­Singleton said his intentions petition, the Irish increased the curred with a lineup of were very simple. 
streak to 98 before losing to Il­Singleton, Joe Fredrick, Scott "I just wanted to penetrate linois 15-12. The team thenPaddock, Gary Voce and Kevin and make something happen," posted a 22-5 victory over Mic­
Ellery. Singleton said. "I wanted to higan State, but in no way did Singleton, who Irish head co­draw or foul or dish it down it make up for the previousach Digger Phelps said was his low." 
loss.
team's MVP for the game, Before that late streak, the "It was really a disappoint­replaced a struggling David Irish could not put any distance ment," said 27th-year Head Co­Rivers with 8: 18 left in the between themselves and ach Mike DeCicco. "The main game and Notre Dame leading Creighton. Notre Dame had its problem was that we had seven 45-43. The freshman guard fed biggest lead of the first half at 5-4 bouts that we lost. They wonFredrick for a left-side jumper 15-9, but could never get its of­the bouts they needed to winto start the the Irish run. fense rolling. Matt Roggenburk the competition." ·Chad Gallagher answered hit three 3-pointers and the The many close bouts showwith a short turnaround Irish went scoreless for the that the Irish fencers were notjumper, but Singleton was just final 2 : 43 of the half allowing outclassed. Illinois just had the getting started. He drove right the Bluejays to tie the game at better day. 
of the lane and drew a foul on 27, and allowing the boo birds "When you're scoring fourGallagher. Singleton hit both to voice their displeasure. 
touches consistently it means
free throws. Both teams added their fair you're working well," DeCicco James Farr then got by share to the error-filled first added. "We let them do whatSingleton on the baseline, but half. Notre Dame shot 11 for 26 they do best. They've provenas the night would have it, Farr (42 percent), Creighton hit 11 
... that they're good fencers, andblew the easy layup. Singleton a key match here and therethen drove into the lane and see IRISH, page 12 won them the meet." 
The Illini won several key matches in the epee division, beating Notre Dame by a score
Women's tennis splits pair at Madison 
of 8-1 in epee, which put the ad­
vantage heavily in their favor. By TIM SULLIVAN Overall, the Irish moved to 5-3 weekend, as she upped her per­three sets, including a pair of Though Notre Dame countered Sports Writer on the season after a successful sonal record to 5-0 with a pair tie-breaking sets. with a 7-2 foil victory and a very 
weekend at the Wisconsin of convincing wins. In Satur­Dasso and freshman Cathy small 4-5 disadvantage in 
The scores, 1-8 against Wis­Quadrangular. day's Wisconsin match, Bradshaw pulled out the two sabre, it was the epee bouts consin and 9-0 against Furman, "Coach (Michelle) Gelfman Cahill's victory included the biggest victories of the Furman that decided the meet. may lead one to believe that was happy with the weekend only two victorious sets of the match. Both spotted their op­"We lost some key bouts, the Notre Dame women's ten­overall," said Irish senior and nine-match contest for the ponents a set (Bradshaw via a particularly in epee," says nis team played very differ­second-singles player Michelle Irish. close tie-breaker) , yet they DeCicco. "You can't deny that ently in its two matches over Dasso. "We played well. Wis­The Furman score (9-0) was came away with three set they're going to win some, but the weekend. consin (now 6-1) was just a not indicative of the match, ac­victories--Dasso 5-7, 6-2, 7-5, three of our eight losses in epee 
In reality, however, the team very good team. cording to Dasso, as the action and Bradshaw 6-7 (7-4), 6-3, 6-3 were 5-4 bouts." played very well in both Freshman sensation CeCe was much more exciting than Notre Dame will next play The starters in epee were 0-7 matches, but was simply out­Cahill was again the corner­the final score. Five of the nine host to Colorado Thursday at matched in the first contest. stone of the team's effort on the matches were extended to the Eck Pavilion. 
see STREAK, page 10 
Irish swimmers sweep MCC Championships Byrne, MVS Rini lead teams 
By GREG GUFFEY peted in five events and tallied 61 Sports Writer points, the exact margin of victory. "It was neat in a coincidental way 
Senior co-captain Barbara Byrne was that she figured in the final margin of anticipating an enjoyable weekend of victory," Welsh said. "She was a sig­watching the rest of the swimming nificant help. Itwas a tremendous boost team compete in the Midwestern Col­to the spirit and energy of the team. legiate Conference Championships in We're lucky that we originally entered Evansville. That, however, never her with the intention of scratching materialized. her." 
Expecting to watch from the sidelines The men's squad easily won the con­as the Irish went with their youth move­ference meet, outdistancing Evansville ment, Byrne wound up helping the team 589-357. Butler was third with 275 to the conference title. She came out of points. The Irish won convincingly the stands to pace the Irish to a 634-573 despite leaving the juniors behind for victory over Evansville. Xavier took Junior Parents' Weekend. third with 269 points. "We knew we had a real strong 
Byrne was in Notre Dame Thursday team," Welsh said of the men's perfor­when she got the call from coach Tim mance. "What was important to us was Welsh. The team had fallen behind that we won the meet and allowed the early in the meet, and Welsh, who juniors to go to Junior Parents' wanted to try using only underclassmen Weekend. The program goal is that we in this meet, needed the experience of Byrne to give them a boost. Bynre com-see SWEEP, page 14 








