
Frosty melts
IACCENT: New film releases Partly · sunny and warmer today with a high in the upper 
40s. Mostly cloudy and 
warmer tonight with a 30 per-.
IVIEWPOINT: The enigmatic grad student 

cent chance of light rain. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 48 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1988 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Candidates' quest Pipe bomb 
is found in


for votes continues 
NO stadium
·Associated Press 
********* 

George Bush and Michael ELECTION '88 By REGIS COCCIADukakis both laid claim Sun­
Senior Staff Reporter 
day to precious, last-minute Democrats voiced confi­momentum in their campaign dence they would retain or per­A small pipe bomb filled with marathon, the vice president haps widen their majorities in an unidentified substance was 
declaring the tide was "moving the House and Senate in Tues­found early Saturday morning, in our direction" and the com­day's balloting, and they got near Notre Dame Stadium and bative underdog insisting he little dissent from Republicans 
rei_Dove~ by_ a bomb disposal was "rocking and rolling" to on that score. umt, sa1d Drrector of Security · 
an election upset Tuesday. One of the tightest Senate Rex Rakow. 
The political equivalent of a races was in Florida, where a 
nuclear exchange occurred on late-hour poll showed a virtual A stadium usher found the 
television, where the dead heat between Democratic device, a 4.5-inch phistic pipe 
Republicans and Democrats Rep. Buddy MacKay and Re­with an attached fuse, at 7:20 
spent millions of dollars in ad­publican Rep. Connie Mack for a.m. Saturday between Gates vertising for the waning hours the seat being vacated by Dem­16 and 17 on the pavement out­of the campaign. The two can­ocratic Sen. Lawton Chiles. side the stadium, less than five 
didates bought time for 30-Bush aide Alixe Glen des­hours before the Notre Dame­
minute commercials on all cribed the vice president's Rice football game, Rakow 
three major networks for elec­rapidly changing itinerary as a said. 
tion eve on Monday. "Magical Mystery Tour." 
After securing the area;Although national polls Dukakis tried to defy the clock Notre Dame Security·called the pointed to a victory by GOP and was flying overnight from South Bend Police Depart­nominee Bush, both candidates Spokane to Cleveland and then ment's bomb disposal unit,battled the clock and physical St. Louis--and then back to the which arrived at about 7:50exhaustion in a final drive to West Coast for a noon rally a.m. and removed the device,snare undecided voters and Monday. · he said. 
nail down the presidency. A series of state polls pro­NBC news said Bush led na­vided a picture of several close Rakow said the pipe bomb · tionally by five percentage races. One poll gave Bush a 17­was then taken to a police pistol points, and that one of every point lead in Texas, with its 29 range, where authorities at­five voters were undecided or electoral votes. But Dukakis tempted to detonate it from amight switch allegiance. was reported gaining on Bush distance with a shotgun.
"There ain't" no stopping us in the latest survey in Colorado, The bomb did not explodenow unless we stop ourselves," and holding an eight-point lead and did not appear to containthe vice president said at a in Iowa. 
black powder, a substancebreakfast rally in Colorado NBC news said its nationwide Associated Press on Election Day minus two. But usually used in pipe bombs,Springs, Colo. survey completed Saturday we could just as easily be plus Rakow said. 
"We canlt turn the White night showed the vice president 
WASHINGTON--There is an two or better."
House over to the people who with a lead of 48 percent to 43 unusual unanimity this year One reason little change is An unidentified grainy, oil­claim to be on our side but who percent, down from two weeks about prospects for the Senate expected is that, unlike some based substance was found in­left the country on its back," earlier, and that a very high 21 in Tuesday's balloting: past presidential elections, side the plastic pipe. The bomb Bush said. percent of the voters are "un­democrats will remain in con­there has been no overriding and its contents will be takenCountered Dukakis, also decided or may still change trol, and may well increase national theme dictated by the to a laboratory for analysis,beginning his day in Colorado, their minds." 
their eight-seat advantage. top of the ticket, the kind of Rakow said.
"He's slipping and sliding, Bush professed little doubt "The Democrats will hold compelling issue that wouldwe're rocking and rolling." . about the outcome Tuesday. 
onto 54 seats at a minimum, propel voters to seek massive
Dukakis sought to raise fears "Things are moving in our di­A fuse was attached to the
and I believe have a very good changes.
over the possibility that Bush­rection,'' he said as he raced device but it was not lit, he said. 
opportunity to add," said Sen. Rather, polls have show a
-if elected--might put vice Sunday from Colorado to Cali­Security received no threats or 
John Kerry of Massachusetts, general contentment with the
presidential running mate Dan fornia to Michigan. phone calls about the bomb
chairman of the Democratic status quo, and that works to
Quayle in charge of the White Dukakis, in a desperate race, before or since it was dis­
Senatorial Campaign Commit­the benefit of incumbents.
House crisis management noted that both candidates covered. No other bombs were 
tee. . That advantage extends to
team. · began the day in Colorado. discovered, he said. 
"We realize ·it's still quite the House, where very little"Gives you the chills, doesn't "For months George Bush volatile out there," said Tom movement is expected in the Rakow said the bomb was the it?" Dukakis asked. "Think has been following me around Mason, spokesman for the Na­Democrats' 255-177 majority. first such device he has foundabout it--the Cuban missile tional Republican Senatorial in nine years with security. Se­crisis, with Dan Quayle in Committee. "We could end up curity is still investigating the 
charge." See ELECTION, page 3 See OEMS, page 4 
incident. · 

Polling places
Special to The Observer 
Center from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Students registered to vote on Tuesday, Nov. 8. in Indiana should know where they can cast their Off-campus students: votes on Election Day, Tues­All off-campus students day, Nov. 8. must vote at the official pol­
Information on polling ling place within their places and candidates, as respective voting precinct. well as all local and national Student government advises elections, can be obtained at off-campus students to call the information desk op the 239-6283 from 12 to 9 p.m. first floor of LaFortune Stu­today for precinct numbers dent Center. and polling sites. Off­
campus students may also On-campus students: call their local government Students may vote in Stepan offices for information.
Out." The talent show was held on the porch of Sorin Friday night. 

A real wipe out 
One of the entries in the Sorin talent show consisted of these students, lip-syncing the Fat-boys' hit, "Wipe 

page 2 The Observer Monday, November 7, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 
Seniors should keep job search in perspective 
Rejection. It can be so hard to accept. I mean, 
OF INTEREST 
Saint Edward's Hall Forum presents Professor David Link Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, speaking on "How I Think ' You Should Prepare for Law Schoo,l " tonight at 7 in the St. Ed's first-floor lounge. All are invited. 
-The Observer 
Off-campus voters: Peopl~ who r~gistere~ to vote in Indiana and live off-campus will vote m locations set by their townships and precincts as shown on their registra­tion card. Off-campus students can check a chart in the student government office on the second floor of LaFortune or call 239-6283 from noon to 9 p.m. today to find polling places. -The Observer 
"Focus On Your Career," a workshop given to explore interests, skills, and values as they rel~ted to choosing a career, will be presented by Jeff R1ce and Marilyn Bury, assistant directors of Career and Place­ment Services. All classes and majors are invited to attend the presentation tonight from 6:30 to 8:30 in the Foster Room of LaFortune. -The Observer 
An African project will be presented this afternoon from 3:45 to 4: 45 at the Center for Social Concerns by Michael Heisler, M.D., ND '72. He is a member of a team of Russian and American physicians planning a peace project in Arusha Tanzania, Africa. All interested students are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Ballroom Dance Club will meet tonight in Stepan Center at 6 for Intermediate and 7 for Beginning dancers. 
-The Observer 
Presidential Forum on Economics will be held tonight at 7 in the library auditorium. Sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon, this forum will feature Profs. Bet­sun, Jameson, and Rakowski of the Economics department discussing the economic dimension of this year's election. A student-faculty reception with refreshments will follow. All are cordially invited to attend. -The Observer 
'Coverup,' adocumentaryfilmontheiran-ContraAffair, will be shown tonight at 9 at the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 
Father Hesburgh, University President Emeritus, will speak tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns at noon. Entitled "Prognosis for Peace," his speech is part of the Call To Peacemaking Week. -The Observer 
Scared about Nuclear War? Bob Johansen will be speaking tonight at the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30 on "Keeping the Peace and Protecting National Security Without Nuclear Weapons." Please join UCAM (United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War) at this event. -The Observer 
Adult Children of Alcoholics will hold a meeting tonight at 7 upstairs in the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Quarter Mile, a fund-raiser sponsored by Hall Presidents Council, raised $700 for the United Way. HPC would like to thank all who particpated for their support and contributions. ~The Observer 
A palanca writing session will be held for all past NDE participants tomorrow at 9 p.m. in the Pasquerilla West Chapel. Call Mark Bellafante at 283-3160 for further information. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................. Lisa Tugman Copy Editor.. ......... Rachel Jarosh De•ign A..i•tant . ...... Ann Buff Sports Copy Editor .......... Theresa Kelly Type•etten . . . . . . ............ Jim Mercurio Viewpoint Layout. .. ... Annette Rowland .. ... .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. Andy Schlidt Accent Editor .............. Robyn Simmons New• Editor. .. . . Michelle Dall Accent Copy Editor ......... Kathy Lenney Accent Designer......... .. . Robert Sedlack 
nt OIIMner (USPS ~99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. nt c:Mo.ner is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writina nt Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, I ndianll 46~ 56. 
nt ~-is a member of nt "-'dated l'laa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 


Tom Ward is Pro-Life on Abortion, Arms Control, and Domestic Issues. TOM WARD WILL: PROTECT THE UNBORN from abortion 
To Tom Ward, all human life is sacred, from the moment of conception on. He opposes abortion and will support a constitutional amendment banning abortions except to protect the life of the mother. 
PROTECT OUR FUTURE from a nuclear war Tom Ward supports arms-control measures designed to reduce U.S. and Soviet nuclear stockpiles, negotiations towards a comprehensive test-ban treaty, and efforts to 
keep the arms race form spreading into space. PROTECT OUR FAMILIES from the devastation of unemployment and poverty 
Tom Ward favors programs that are truly pro-family, that will help people in time of ne·ed and enable people to leave welfare for meaningful employment. In this election, there is only ONE 
consistent-life-ethic candidate for Indiana's Third District Paid for by Notre Dame Justlife. 
isn't it an indication that in some way we have 
failed or ·are inferior or don't have "what it 
takes?" 

No. And now is when seniors have to ingrain 
that in their minds. 

Most of us have not experienced much serious 
rejection (SYR dates notwithstanding). Even 
when applying to colleges, how many of us came 
to Notre Dame because we couldn't get in 
anywhere else? 

Then the final year at Notre Dame rolls 
around and seniors begin to prepare for life 
after college--maybe tr;ying to get into a good 
grad school or interviewing for the ideal job. 
We've always been pretty successful in our en­
deavors before, so this should be no problem 
and we all should get exactly what we want, 
right? Not true. 

The catch is that everyone applying for jobs 
and spots in graduate schools is very well­
qualified. 

The companies interviewing on campus have 
their pick of Notre Dame students. Unfortun­
ately, they can't take every person who inter-· 
views with them so most get rejected from one 
company or another. 

I'm not saying "don't worry, be happy (even if you get a rejection letter)." I am saying this 'is a time when it is so important to keep the job search in perspective--not to let a few rejec­tions convince you that you are destined to work at McDonald's with high school students. 
I lost my perspective when I interviewed with 
one of my "dream" companies. I was devas­
tated when I was told the company "would not 
be continuing the interview process" with me. 
My first thought was my qualifications and ex­
periences really aren't that great; next, I do 
awful in interviews and will never get asked 
back for second interviews; then, I don't have 
whatever it takes to get a job; thus leading to 
the conclusion that I will never get a job. 
All this from one interview. Fortunately I have friends who do keep things in perspective. 
One friend said one out of 10 or 12 companies you interview with will make a job offer. From his perspective, he had a few down but only a few more to go before an offer. 
Another friend asked me what was the worst thing that could happen if I didn't get a job through Career and Placement. Well, I wo';lld have to hit the pavement and conduct a JOb search like just about everyone else has to. 
He told me how fortunate we are at Notre Dame because we have opportunities to inter­view with prospective employers on campus, while so many students at other universities don't have these opportunities, and even more people don't have college degrees. Yet we have degrees from Notre Dame, which gives us a jump on others in the job market. 
He's right. 
Something else I realized is every company in every industry has different needs. A rejec­tion simply means you may not fit the exact specifications of that company, but there are other prospective employers out there whose specifications you do fit. 
The point is that rejection is unavoidable, but it can't make you not want to try for something. It isn't failure. It isn't an indication you are inferior or don't have "what it takes." It is an experience that might cause you to look at things a little differently, but then again, every­thing looks a little differently after college. Maybe it prepares you for when that time comes. 


Second phase of immigration reforms to begin 
*************************************************** 
* 
a  Reminder to all USC  trip participants  ~t  
*  
* *  ~ ~ ~  
~ **a  Mandatory meeting tonight at 7 p.m. or Cushing Hall auditorium.  9 p.m.  t ~ ~t  
~ ** *** Be sure to bring roommate ************************** application forms. ******************** ~ ~•**  

Monday, November 7, 1988 The Observer 
Andres plans events at SMC 
By CATHLEEN MEERE News Staff 
Although Dennis Andres was appointed director for confer­ence and events services at Saint Mary's just this year, he has already indicated he has big plans for bringing new events to the college. 
Andres said he has developed a five-year plan for coordinat­ing special campus events at the college by trying to "get anything and everything I can that's appropriate." 
''The job involves coordinat­ing schedules and finding clients, whether they be faculty members, students ...or other, off-campus per­sonalities, for banquets and shows," Andres said. 
Andres said he arranges for both campus organizations and outside groups to use confer­ence rooms, theaters and other campus facilities. Opening the college's facilities to different 
Associated Press 
The second phase of the federal government's im­migration amnesty program starts today, when thousands of amnesty recipients can begin applying for permanent residency and receiving their so-called green cards. 
Federal officials expect about 1.5 million of the 1.8 mil­lion non-agricultural workers who applied for amnesty under the Immigration Reform and 
CALL TO PEACEMAKING 
Monday, November 7 "CALL TO PEACEMAKING OPENING MASS" Fr. Monk Malloy, C.S.C. Holy Mass at Sadred Heart church, 11 :30 A.M. 
"KEEPING THE PEACE AND PROTECTING NATIONAL SECURITY WITHOUT NUCLEAR WEAPONS" Robert Johansen, Senior Fellow, Institute for 
International Peace Studies.. 7:30 P.M. at the CSC. Sponsored by UCAM. 
Tuesday, November 8 "PROGNOSIS FOR PEACE" Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., 12:00 Noon at the, CSC, Election Day! 

groups is particularly benefi­cial to local organizations, said Andres. 
Groups Andres deals with range from bagpipe performers to comedians to ballet companies. "Clients should be appropriate for the Saint Mary's (audience), and they should bring in money," he said. Profits earned from the events are put into the school's general fund. 
Andres' responsibilities for planning and scheduling campus events include provid­ing programs for St. Mary's students' and faculty mem­bers' enjoyment. 
Andres said he is both happy and excited about his new po­sition. He said he feels comfort­able in the Saint Mary's envi­ronment and looks forward to 
bringing · in  many  types  of  
clients.  
Before  coming  to  Saint  

Mary's, Andres was Managing 
Control Act of 1986 to apply for permanent residency. 
But that figure may be opti­mistic, authorities said, be­cause some potential appli­cants could find themselves shut out of overcrowded En­glish and civics classes they must take to qualify for per­manent residency. 
In Los Angeles, at least one school--the Evans Community Adult School--has been holding classes 24 hours a day to handle the crush. 
Director for the Holiday Star Theatre in Merrillville, Ind. Since 1979 he has held various positions at the theatre, includ­ing event coordinator, produc­tion manager and technical director. 
Andres also served as Assis­tant Managing Director of the Erie Civic Center and Warner Theatre in Erie, Pa. and an as­sistant professor at Mer­cyhurst College in Erie. 
He also was event coordina­tor and production manager for the Erie Ballet Company and Administrative Production As­sistant for the Syracuse Stage in Syracuse, N.Y. Andres earned his master of arts degree from Syracuse Univer­sity in 1976 and his bachelor's degree from Mercyhurst Col­lege in 1972. 
Andres is succeeding Randy 
Brown, who has accepted a po­
sition with Fort Wayne 
Memorial Coliseum. 
In Dallas, classes for am, nesty recipients are free in public schools, but many at­tend privately-run programs. 
In New York City, classes will be offered by the Board of Education, the City University 
of  New  York  and  many  
community-based  organiza­ 
tions.  

New York's applicants rep­resent 153 nations and pose a challenge to educators, accor­ding to Garrett Murphy, direc­tor of the state Department of 
What Can An MBA 
Degree Do For You? 
T · H · E 
OHIO 
STA1E 
UNIVERSITY 

page 3 
The Observer I Laura Matthias 
An unidentified student walks amidst' snow covered boughs and slushy sidewalks Sunday near lhe School of Architecture. The first snowfall of the season caused controversy among students as some headed out­doors to enjoy the snow while others cuddled up inside: refusing to admit winter has arrived. 
Education's Division of Con­
tinuing Education. 
"We probably have more lan­
guage groups and more lan­
guages than any other state," 
Murphy said. 
Arthur Helton, a spokesman 
for the Lawyer's Committee 
for Human Rights, predicted 
New York state would be 
"overwhelmed" by a late 
swarm of applicants because 
the U.S. Immigration and 
Naturalization Service has 
done little to inform im-

An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opportunities, income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program offers merit-based financial aid and. has no prerequisites. We enroll both business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For a free brochure about our programs, please write or call: 
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road Columbus, OH 43210-1399 614-292-8511 
migrants about the education program. 
"It's starting with remarkably little fanfare," he said, adding that many im­migrants are probably un­aware of the educational com­ponent. "People may just think they have (legal) status now, and they aren't thinking about the next step." 
The INS released its guidelines for civics classes only about two weeks ago. 
Election 
continued from page 1 

on the issues. He discovered education a few months ago, he even discovered the environ­ment a few months ago," he said. 
"This week he started follow­ing me around on my message, telling people he's on your side. Now he's following me around the country. I'll tell you one place he's not going to follow me. He's not following Lloyd Bentsen and me to 1600 Penn­sylvania A venue." 
Quayle, who shows up as a drag on the Republican ticket in virtually all the polls, declined invitations to appear on network television and cam­paigned Sunday in Virginia, one of the safest Republican states, where a new poll showed Bush with a 56-25 per­cent lead. 
---------------------------------------------------~-----------­

AP Photo 
manding the arrest and punishment of former Pres­ident Chun Doo-hwan. See related story below. 

page 4 The Observer 
radical students in SeouL The protesters were de­
Ex-president's arrest demanded 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea-Tens of thousands of screaming protesters clashed with police Saturday throughout South Korea, demanding the arrest of former President Chun Doo­hwan on corruption charges. 
Riot police in Seoul fired tear gas to block a 10,000-strong crowd from marching to the former president's house. The protesters threw rocks and firebombs. 
At least 11 officers were in­jured, authorities said, includ­ing 10 hurt when a police sta­tion in Seoul was pelted with rocks and firebombed. Dozens of protesters were seen injured and carried away, but police gave no' figures for the total number of injuries and arrests. 
Tear gas filled the streets of seven other South Korea cities­-Wonju, Chunchon, Cheju, Kwangju, Taegu, Taejon and Pusan--as police fought stu­dents at anti-Chun rallies, aut­horities reported. 
The scandal over corruption allegedly committed by Chun and his family has been the major political issue in South 
Dems 
continued from page 1 
"There isn't the thematic dif­ference" that has pervaded presidential contests in the past. Mason said. "President Reagan said it best: we are the change. It's not as clear a man­date as in 1980, when there was such a screaming need for change." 
That was the year Republicans rode Reagan's coattails to a 12-seat pickup and control of the Senate for the first time in a quarter-century. In 1986, an eight-seat gain en­abled Democrats to retake con­trol. 
This time, Republican George Bush and Democrat Michael Dukakis have been criticized for running a race devoid of issues, devoted mostly to personal attacks and distortions of each other's records. 
So issues in this year's Senate campaign have been largely drawn from a list of topics that Democrats claim as their own, although they have been used 
Korea since the Summer Olym­
pics in Seoul. Opposition 
groups rejected a governing 
party offer Saturday for Chun 
to make a public apology for 
his alleged misdeeds in office. 
Students in Seoul burned ef­
figies of Chun, President Rob 
Tae-woo and Uncle Sam, and 
thousands of citizens cheered 
and shouted ''Arrest Chun Doo­
hwan!" 
Rob was elected in Decem­
ber to replace Chun, who held 
office seven years. The election 
followed months of anti­
government demonstrations. 
In Pusan, an opposition 
stronghold south of Seoul, 
police fired tear gas at 
thousands of protesters trying 
to burn an effigy of the former 
president after a street march, 
according to Yonhap, the South 
Korean news agency. 
Pollee also battled groups of . slogan-chanting protesters in 
Kwangju, after students razed 
two police buses, shattered doz­
ens of windows and damaged 
eight cars in a firebomb attack 
on a government prosecutors' 
building. 
One student was injured 
by candidates of both parties: 
the environment, education, 
social security, health care and 
"family issues" like child care. 
Also prominent in Senate 
stump speeches and advertis­
ing have been the problems of 
drugs and crime. 
Most Senate incumbents of 
both parties appeared likely to 
win re-election on Tuesday, but 
there were several prominent 
exceptions. 
Analysts said Republican 
Sen. David Karnes, who was 
appointed in 1987 to fill an un­
expired Nebraska Senate term, 
was the most likely to be 
ousted. Democratic former 
Gov. Bob Kerrey, a popular fig­
ure, held a heavy lead in polls. 
Three other incumbents--two Republicans and one Democrat--also faced difficult battles for survival. 
In Nevada, GOP sen. Chic Hecht, who for months had been considered the most vul­nerable Republican incum­bent, has fought back to a dead heat with his challenger, Dem­ocratic Gov. Richard Bryan. 
when he fell out of a third-floor window. 
In Seoul, police martial arts squads drove protesters into side streets, beating and kick­ing them, but the protest swelled with thousands of other citizens demanding Chun's ar­rest. 
Thousands of riot police using armored vehicles fired volleys of tear gas at more than 15,000 protesters at one crowded shopping area. 
During the Seoul rally, leaders called for bigger rallies next week and vowed to attack Chun's house. 
Radical students have at­

Monday, November 7, 1988 
Gunmen were behind failed Maldives coup 
Associated Press 
MALE, Maldives--Military officials tried to break a high seas standoff Saturday night with gunmen who staged a failed coup in Maldives, seized 25 hostages and were holding them aboard a crippled boat, officials said. 
Two Indian warships tailed the boat in the Indian Ocean, and military officers were negotiating by radio with the gunmen for release of the hostages, Indian and Mal­divian officials in Male said. 
"We have not yet reached any conclusion. There are many lives involved. There are threats to life," said Maj. Zahir of the Maldivian security forces. He gave only one name. 
"We are trying to solve the problem as soon as possible," said Zahir nearly 48 hours after the ship left Male, the capital. 
Officials said an aide to former President Ibrahim Nasir participated in Thursday's pre-dawn attack and may have instigated it. 
Nasir, who lives in Singapore, denied involvement. 
In Male, members of the se­curity forces patrolled the gray sand streets. Businesses and shops were closed because of a national day of mourning for those who died in the violence. 
India's top diplomat in Male said 27 to 32 people were killed when 150 gunmen--believed to be Tamil mercenaries from nearby Sri Lanka--attempted to overthrow President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom. 
"This figure is probably un­derstated, because the mer­cenaries may have removed their dead," Ambassador A.K. Banerjee said. He provided no breakdown on the deaths, but said 25 people were taken hostage aboard the vessel. Ear­lier reports had said there were 18 to 20 hostages. 
The mercenaries fled early Friday after Indian paratroopers landed to help Gayoom and his lightly armed security forces in the Indian Ocean nation, which is also known as the Maldive Islands. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Business .Page Reporters 
For further information contact Matt Gallagher at The Observer (239-5303) 
tacked government buildings ~,...._,....,.r1*4,...H-4,...H-4,....~'##<,....,...,...'ffliiiH4t-l~~,....HW and party offices since Thursday, when riot police 
James E. blocked a march to Chun's home by thousands of students. 
McMeel M.D. 
Chun's younger brother, 

Coroner!Democrat

Chun Kyung-hwan, was recently sentenced to seven 

ND Class of 1950
years' in prison for taking bribes and misusing millions of 

17 years of experience
dollars in government money while he headed a rural devel­Chief Deputy Coroner for the past 8 years opment program. 

whether it's bush or dukakis, conservative or liberal... 

you can fi.nd the music that fits your political affiliation at 
the ~ 
cellar 
much more fun than a political debate! 
Monday, November 7, 1988 The Observer page 5 
5 reported injured in south Lebanon raids 
Associated Press 
Sidon, Lebanon--Israeli helicopter gunships rocketed the shop of a boat dealer suspected of links with PLO guerrillas Sunday, demolishing the business and wounding five people, two of them seriously, police said. 
The Israeli army said its warplanes destroyed a Pales­tinian guerrilla base in South Lebanon. It did not mention casualties. 
Lebanese police said four Is­raeli Cobra helicopter gunships blasted the shop and a nearby citrus grove with eight rockets in two sorties. The shop in the southern port of Sidon was closed at the time. 
A police spokesman, who cannot be named under stand­ing regulations, said the shop owner, Mahmoud Hijazi, was suspected of renting two motor­boats to PLO guerrillas and selling the guerrillas spare parts. 
It was the sixth Israeli air strike against guerrilla targets in south Lebanon in three weeks and the 21st this year. By police count, 108 people were killed and 204 wounded in raids since Jan. 3. 
Hijazi's motorboats, anchored off the beach about 600 yards from his shop, were not hit in the raid, police said. 
Earlier police reports said aircraft attacked guerrilla bases in the teeming Ein el­Hilweh refugee camp on Sidon's southern outskirts. Police said the guerrillas in the camp opened up with anti­aircraft fire but were not tar­geted by the Israeli aircraft. 
Israeli-backed Lebanese militiamen also killed three guerrillas who apparently landed in a boat on the Medit­teranean coast just north of Is­rael, the army command said. 
An Israeli army announce­ment said the base attacked Sunday was used for launching attacks and ammunition storage. It said all planes that took part in the raid returned safely. 
The brief announcement gave no further details. 

Word processing made simple. 


Word processing made simpler. 

Talk about manual labor. The only thing more complicated than most word processors is their instruction manuals. 
You can wade through hundreds of pages of "user interfaces" and "output fonts" or try something·far simpler: The Smith Corona PWP 3 Personal Word Processor. 
Using PWP 3 is truly an exercise in simplicity. Our easy-to-follow Tutorial DataDisk teaches you that moving blocks of text is a snap, deleting words is a cinch and inserting words is effortless. 

In fact, PWP 3 is so incredibly simple to use, you can pick it up in practically no time. 
That way, you can spend more of your time writing. And less of your time reading about writing. 


[llllllll E~ll&~~ 
TOMORROIN'STECHNOLOGY 
AT YOUR TOUCH'" 
For more information on this product. write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue. New Canaan. CT 06840 or Smith Corona (Canada Ltd.). 440Tapscott Road. Scarborough. Ontario, Canada MlB 1Y4. 


Suspect is found in computer virus case 
Associated Press 

ITHACA, N.Y.-A Cornell 
University graduate student 
whose father is a top govern­
ment computer-security expert 
is suspected of creating the 
"virus" that slowed thousands 
of computers nationwide, 
school officials said Saturday. 
Robert Morris Jr., 23, a first­
year student in a doctorate 
computer science program, 
has a reputation as an expert 
computer hacker and is skilled 
enough to have written the 
rogue program, Cornell in­
structor Dexter Kozen said. 
The New York Times quoted 
sources as saying Morris 
created the virus, which on 
Wednesday night began infect­
ing an estimated 6,0Q0 univer­
sity and military computers 
connected through the Arpanet 
computer network established 
by the Pentagon. 

The virus slowed down com­
puters by replicating itself over 
and over and taking up 
memory space, but it is not 
believed to have destroyed any 
data. 
The origin of such programs is hard to investigate, and it may be impossible to trace the virus back to Morris, said M. Stuart Lynn, vice president of information technologies at Cornell. 
"At this stage we're simply not in a position to determine if the allegations are true," Lynn said at a news confer­ence. 
"It's quite conceivable we 
may not be able to say with any 
certainty" if the virus was 
created in Cornell's computer 
system, he said. 
He said the university had 
been contacted by the FBI, but 
there was no indication any cri­
minal charges would be filed. 
Officials said the school could 
discipline Morris if he was in­
volved. 
The FBI said it was launch­
ing a preliminary inquiry to de­
termine whether federal law 
had been violated. 
Morris could not be reached 
for comment Saturday. His 
roommate, Chansong Da, said 
Morris did not come home 
Friday and she did not know 
where he was. University offi­
cials also were unable to con­
tact him, Lynn said. 
Reached at his home Satur­day in Arnold, Md., Robert Morris Sr., chief scientist at the National Computer Security Center in Bethesda, Md., would not say where his son was or otherwise comment on the case. 
The elder Morris has written 
widely on the security of the 
Unix operating system, the tar­
get of his son's virus program, 
the Times reported. He is 
widely known for writing a pro­
gram to decipher passwords, 
which give users access to com­
puters. 
Cornell ·officials said they began examining Morris' com­puter files Friday night after the Times identified him. 
Morris had passwords in his files "for some computers at Cornell and Stanford to which he is not entitled," although those could have been placed there by someone else, Lynn said. 
page 6 The Observer Monday, November 7, 1988 
Officials concerned with 'cockpit chatter' 
Associated Press reference, according to 
sources, of the disclosure in 

WASHINGTON-Two fatal news reports a few days before airliner accidents have the crash of idle chatter aboard prompted questions about idle a Continental Airlines that chatter in the cockpit and crashed in Denver 10 months raised concerns by some safety earlier. officials that pilots may not al­If there is an accident, one ways be focusing on business participant in the Delta cockpit when they should be. reportedly reminded his col­
Federal investigators at the leagues, their words might end National Transportation Safety up in the newspapers, too. Board are closely examining Later, the plane's captain 
the tape covering nearly 30 told investigators he did not minutes in the cockpit of Delta care for the lengthy presence Air Lines Flight ll41last August of the flight attendants in the before the Boeing 727 crashed cockpit, but that it was not his seconds after takeoff, killing 14 nature to order them from the of the 108 people aboard. cockpit during the long takeoff 
More than half of the tape, delay. covering a lengthy taxi period Investigators emphasized at the huge Dallas-Forth Worth that so far there has been no International Airport, involves clear evidence linking these 
impertinent conversation conversations--some of which among the pilots and two flight was technically legal because attendants on subjects ranging the plane was not moving--with from the recent purchase of a the possible cause of the crash. house to the habit of birds nes­"It's very difficult to legis­ting near airports. late against people interacting 
Nearly 11 minutes of the tape in a job situation," says Clay were omitted from the tran­Foushee, an aviation safety re­script because they were con­searcher at NASA's Ames Re­sidered irrelevant, including a search Center in California. 
Bus driver leaves wheel, is arrested 
Associated Press 
SANTA ANA, Calif.--A bus 
driver whose vehicle was com­
mandeered by a passenger who 
accepted his challenge to 
"drive this better than I can" 
has been fired. 
Kim Dale Miller, 36, was dis­
missed Friday, a day after his 
case was heard by an Orange 
County Transit District com­
mittee, said spokeswoman 
Claudia Keith. 
The driver was dismissed for 
berating a passenger and 
leaving a bus unattended, Ms. 
Keith said. 
He had not driven for the dis­
trict since Oct. 19 when wit­
nesses said he stepped off his 
bus after challenging pas­
senger James Biddle to do a 
better job. 
Biddle, a 52-year-old Buena 
Park engineer, said he com­
plained about the driver's 
berating a passenger and about 
sudden starts and stops. 
Go ahead and gloat You canBiddle said Miller told him, rub it in all the wayto Chicago"I suppose you think you can with AT&T Long Distance Service.
drive this better than I can." 
Besides, your best friend Eddie
When Biddle said he could, 
was the one who said your team
Miller got off the bus. 
could never win three straightBiddle carried the vehicle's So give him a calL It costs a31 passengers more than mile, lot less than you think to let himstopping to let people off and 
know who's headed for the Playoffs.
on, before police pulled him 
Reach out and touch someone~
over. Passengers said Biddle made change, gave them trans­Ifyoutllike to know more about 
fers and was courteous. 
AT&T products and services, like 
Biddle was cited for joy International Calling and the Al&Triding and operating the vehi­
Card, call us at 1800 222-0300.
cle without a bus-driver's · 
license. He is scheduled to ap­
pear in Municipal Court Mon­
day and faces a maximum of 
$400 in fines and three months 
in jail. 
Miller could not immediately 
be reached for comment. His 
phone number was not listed in 
the Anaheim directory. ATs.T 
The right choice. 
~AMERICAN 
f~· 



The Obset'ller 1 Laura Matthias
Ring around the what ? 

A volunteer from the audience atTheodore's attempts Gardner, a magician and comedian, appeared as part to imitate the Bob Gardner on stage Friday night. of the Quest for the Crown activities. 
Luxuries curbed to cut deficit 
(the economy) has to be ad­and fruit, and a dozen other
Associated Press. justed," said a senior govern­goods. AMMAN, Jordan--The days ment official, who spoke on Finance Minister Hanna Odeh announced on television
of champagne and plastic roses condition of anonymity. are coming to an end in Jordan, The belt-tightening move ap­Sunday night that banning 
a country running short of im­peared to be the first step in chandeliers alone will save $3 ported money to pay for im­what the official said would be million. ported goods. a .three-to-five-year period 
The government Saturday · during which Jordan hopes to The blacklist targets the posh imposed taxes and restrictions slash its $6 billion to $7 billion Western lifestyle many Jor­on imports aimed at saving foreign debt. danians adopted in the early $200 million a year in foreign The government banned new 1980s, when their country was 
currency for this country of 2.8 letters of credit to finance cars flush with money, much of it million people. and trucks, video recorders, imported by hundreds of 
"We started developing a refrigerators, microwave thousands of Palestinians with champagne budget on a beer ovens, television sets, chan­Jordanian passports who pocketbook. . . This is why deliers, marble, plastic flowers worked in the Persian Gulf: 

,. 

Viewpoint 
pa~e 7
Monday, November 7, 1988 
Grad student: political hypocrite? 
As usual, I bumped into my friend Gabby the grad student down in the li­brary pit. He immediately spied my "George Bush '88" button and gave me a sullen look. "How can you support that guy, with his awful record on the environment?" he asked as he drew on yet another cigarette. "Our air is hardly fit to breathe as it is. Besides, intellectuals like us shouldn't be so po­litical." He exhaled a cloud of smoke in my direction, and then suddenly ex­amined his watch. "Darn! I'm late for the anti-apartheid vigil! Remember what I said about politics," he warned as he rushed off. · 
Kevin Smant 
on politics 

Gabby is very typical of a graduate student here at Notre Dame. Let's say he's a complex individual. He wants very much, for example, to fit into the "mainstream" of graduate student life. To be accepted, though, one must meet certain political and ideological tests. For, despite protestations to the con­trary, graduate student life here and elsewhere is as political as any smoke­filled room stuffed with politicians. 
For one thing, Gabby is sure to be anti-establishment, anti-big-business, pro-union, and generally pro-"people" in his conversations. He warned me 
that big-business controlled the TV net­works; he eagerly discusses with his friends in the economics department the progress of Sandinista labor unions in Nicaragua (although he hasn't had much good news there lately, come to think of it); and he routinely bemoans the fate of the homeless in the face of Reagan administration policies. I asked him whether he could actually prove that "millions" of homeless ex­ist, but he just glared at the can of Coca­Cola in my hand. "Don't you know about the Coke boycott?" he snapped. "Can't you show any compassion? 
·You're so self-centered." 
In other words, there are a lot of 
things Gabby doesn't like. Last week, 
I interrupted another one of his lectures 
on the plight of the average worker to 
ask him how his dissertation research 
was going. "Oh, not bad," he said. Sud­
denly a look of disgust crossed his face. 
"But I was at the University of Chicago 
library last week, and you wouldn't 
believe the people I had to put up with. 
I saw one librarian reading 'People' 
magazine. All the guy at the gas station 
wanted to do was talk about some 
bears, -or something. I don't even like 
animals. Why don't they keep their zoos 
locked up?" he grumbled. 
I suppressed a smile and volunteered 
that the attendant probably meant 
Chicago's professional football team. 
He looked disdainful. "That's just what 
I mean. Football ought to be banned. 

This country is full of hillbillies, buf­foons and fools. Ordinary people know nothing about real culture.'' I was con­fused. "But you just. ..about the average worker ..."It was no use. 
He's the one lamenting the dominance of the "establishment" and what the "system" does to people, while rushing off to hand out leaflets for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. 
Graduate students also must always display a rather slippery characteristic they call "tolerance." It is hard to tell what it means. But I guess it explains why Gabby and his friends always talk and write about homophobes, racists, chauvinists, elitists, ethnocentrists, "McCarthyism," and so on. I never realized the world was such a danger­ous place. 
But then, going back to the issue of race, I never realized it occupied his mind so much. When he wants to inspire himself, he quotes Martin Luther King, Jr.--you know, about eliminating !he acute consciousness of race so that everyone can join hands and sing "free at last," etc., without regard to skin 
color. Of course, then he immediately goes on to lament the lack of re<dly ef­fective affirmative action quotas, or the lack of classes devoted solely to black authors, or the paucity of black faculty 
members here at Notre Dame. 
"P,eople's skin color shouldn't mat­ter!" he thunders. "Intolerance is ram­pant on this campus." 
In short, I suppose everyone knows 
Gabby. He's the one lamenting the 
domfuance of the "establishment" and 
what the "system" does to people, 
while rushing off to hand out leaflets 
for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. He 
wears his cynicism on his sleeve, and 
laughs when I show emotion on an 
issue, while at the same time hurrying 
to organize anti-apartheid rallies and 
Coke boycotts. He dreams of economic 
"cooperation," the end of the profit mo­
tive, and a leveling of the "gap between 
rich and poor." 
Meanwhile he also envisions his first 
full-time teaching job. Then he can fi­
nally get that new car he's been wan­
ting, that nice suburban house, a VCR, 
his own den, a steadily rising 
salary....I overheard Gabby just yes­
terday, talking about Dan Quayle. He 
was laughing. "What a hypocrite!" he 
chuckled. I laughed too. But not at Dan 
Quayle.· 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
Economic formula predicts accurately 
Imagery: Graphic in its presentation and powerful in its persuasion. The American public has been saturated with stories about the impact of such imagery, with the Bush campaign's commercials cited as indisputable. Network news programs have covered these commercials almost as much as the candidate. Further, they have hinted at the haunting power of the phantoms behind the scenes who created them--the infamous "media gurus." 
Ed Yyevoli 
guest column 

But just how much do these commer­cials sway the American electorate? Will people vote against Michael Dukakis because of a minute of black and white footage ofprisoners walking through a revolving door? Do people vote for George Bush because his grandchildren are cute? Other evidence of why a particular candidate will win seems to imply or even confirm the contrary. 
A September edition of The Econo-· mist presents a formula which picks who the American electorate will choose on November 8 and by how much. Curiously, this formula does not include a variable which estimates which candidate has slandered the other more effectively. Instead, it relies solely on inflation, real growth (especially in the year before the elec­tion), and incumbancy. When the arti­cle was written the formula gave George Bush 55 percent of the vote, today the formula would probably g1ve him 54 percent (this is my estimate which has not been confirmed due to a 
lack of data). Whether this is the for­mula's exact number or not, it is im­portant only that the scheme has predicted the incumbent party's share of the vote with astonishing accuracy. In the last· six elections it has erred within an average of one percentage point. 
The first quick objection to such for­mulas has been the presentation of other schemes which are accurate but obviously have little to do with politics, for example, the taller man always wins, an American League world series victory helps the Republican Party, and the New York Mets success on ban­ner day correlates to a Democratic vic­tory. However two important distinc­tions must be drawn between these "forumlas" and the economic indicater formula. First, these astrological predictions don't give us numbers, just winners; second, they lead to conclu­sions about the American public which are absurd. Most people don't remem­ber how the Mets did on banner day. 
But what conclusions does the eco­nomic indicator formula lead to? One above all others, the major economic indicators have a greater impact that any other single factor on the outcome of a presidential election. This is not to 
. say that George· Bush could have simply read the formula and retired to Kennebunktport with his name resur­facing only on the ballot.. We must not forget the early lead Mike Dukakis en­joyed immediately following the Dem­ocratic Convention. But we must also 
-Ih-e-Obse.~~r--­
-------~-=·=-'-' --·­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un•vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College II does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of the adm1n1slrat•on of e1ther 1ns!ltut1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob1eCt1vely as poss•ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews ot their authors Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the commumty and the free expression ot varymg 
· 

recall George Bush's quick surge after he shared equal time in_ the spotlight. For the Vice-President a break-even strategy was enough; for the Governor of Massachuseets hitting those "line drive singles" Bruce Rabbit described could lead only to defeat. 
Further evidence of the 
power Of these eCO· nomiC faCtOrS may be 
• 

found m the lack of voter important are those they feel hit home 
turnout predicted in this 
r's Campaign
yea 

• 
Further evidence of the power of 
these economic factors may be found in the lack of voter turnout predicted in this year's campaign. Many contend that this is due to the disdain of the electorate for the way this campaign has been run. But if we admit that the public responds to purely superficial advertisements in a negative way, we should conclude that the public would vote against the man they perceive the most guilty of this--George Bush. Fur­ther, it has been ·many years since the public has been happy with either the candidates or the campaign. Because most people vote mostly in accordance with economic indicators, the positive nature of these numbers has resulted in a criticism of the candidates as issue­less as the campaign. 
But what about the deficit, why do people name this issue as most impor­tant in the campaign? Consider my respect for Notre Dame. I may indeed 
Editorial Board 

Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef Chns Murphy Managmg Ed1tor Chris Donnelly News Ed1tor Regis Cocc•a News Ed1tor Mark Mclaughlin V1ewpomt Ed1tor Matt Slaughter Sports Ed1tor Marty Strasen Accent Ed1tor Beth Healy Samt Mary's Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele . 
Photo Ed1tor Michael Moran 
complain about the alcohol policy and parietals (purely hypothetical, of course), and I may name these as the most important issues at this univer­sity. But if it came down to endorsing this university, these factors would be of little importance. Put more simply, the public is not going to name inflation as the top issue in the campaign be­cause inflation is under control. The is­sues the American public will name as most importan~ are pro~le~s. The is­sues the Amencan public fmds most 
t~e h~rdest and ~ost directly.. Infla­~Ion, _JObs, an~ natiOnal pros.~nty are 
m this short hst, not the deficit. 
All of what has been said is not a reason to ignore the world of Roger Ailes and the Bush campaign team. Al­though the BushQuayle team did not come out ahead in the three debates these men and women have created powerful commercials which coincide well with the theme of the Vice­
President's campaign. The above is also not an excuse for the inadequacy of the Mike Dukakis team of Sasso, Brountas, and Estritch. They truly have done a poor job at advertising their man, and organizing a single theme for his campaign. I agree with columnist Fred Barnes that Mike Dukakis seems to have. been running as if he were the incumbent since the Democratic Convention. I submit that Mike Dukakis would have had to run like Ben Johnson to beat the formula in '88. 
Ed Yevoli is a junior government major and is political commentator for WFVI's Issues '88. 
Operations Board 
Busmess Manager John Oxnder Advertlsmg Des1gn Manager Molly K1llen Advertlsmg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt Product1on Manager Bernadene Sh11ts Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway Controller Todd Hardiman GraphiC Arts Manager Marga Bruns 
op•mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged Founded November 3,1966 

Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, November 7, 1988 
Democrats abandon the "little guy" 
Imagine this scenario: AN otre Dame class is in progress. A shout comes from the hallway that the building is on fire. The flames are spreading, threatening to engulf the whole structure. 
· What's to be done? I dare say those in the classroom would get their priorities sorted out in a hurry. They would certainly stop the class at once. Not because what they are doing is uni­mportant, but because they not have more pressing concerns. Like saving. peoples' lives. Like trying to put out the fire. 
Edward J. Murphy 
guest column 

I submit that the issues in the current presidential campaign are rather like this. There is one issue of such over­powering importance that it dwarfs all other concerns. I am referring to the fact that over the past 15 years the lives of more than 21 million Americans have been destroyed in abortuaries of this country. And the grisly business con­tinues unabated. 
Every working day in the abortion mills of this country more than 5,000 people are killed. This means that every day the number of babies killed by abortion in the United States is nearly equal to the number of students who live on this campus! And since Roe 
v. Wade was decided in 1973, effectively withdrawing legal protection from un­born children, the number of lives lost exceeds the total combined population­-man, woman, and child--of the follow­ing cities: Phoenix, Birmingham, Little Rock, San Francisco, Denver, Hartford, Atlanta, Miami, Chicago, Peoria, Indianapolis, South Bend, Cedar Rapids, Louisville, New Orleans, Baltimore, Boston, East Lansing, Ann Arbor, Detroit, Minneapolis, St. Paul, Newark, Albuquerque, Santa Fe; Buf­falo, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton, Tulsa, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Nash­ville, Dallas, Houston, Salt Lake City, Richmond, and Milwaukee. 
This is an evil of monumental pro­portions. Without a doubt the question of legal protection for unborn babies is the watershed issue of our time. There­fore how candidates stand on this cru­cial question is of overriding impor­tance. 
What if, when the classroom building catches on fire, one said: "Well, I am personally opposed to fires in buildings, but I don't think government should be involved. I don't believe we should call the fire department." 
Or if one said: "Well, I admit that the fire in the building is an important issue, but it is but one of many impor­tant things going on around here. So let's not be one-issue-oriented and be­come preoccupied with putting out the fire." 
And, of course, one might say: "Let it burn! Nobody is going to tell me I have to leave this class and try to put out a fire. Let people burn-up if that's their choice." 
As a boy growing up in a small town in central Illinois, I recall how my fa­ther, a Democrat, proudly affirmed this political affiliation by saying that Democrats were for the "little guy". Dad did not live to see the day when the political party, which he proudly supported, shamelessly abondoned the most helpless and defenseless of the "little guys", the children iJrttte womb. He would have been heartbroken, as was I, to see this once great party be­come the pro-abortion party, the party of death for the innocent unborn. 
Recently, the Catholic Archbishop of Hartford, Archbishop Whealon, resigned from the Democratic party for precisely this reason. Earlier on, Bis­hop Vaugan of New York did the same thing. These bishops have the priorities 
You Democrats would not for a single instant remain a member of a political party which es­poused human slavery. 
right. When the building is on fire, you must set aside other tasks and try to put out the fire. When babies are being killed at the rage of over one and a half million per year, you must concentrate upon stopping the slaughter. 
If you believe, as I do, that the most pressing need right now in this country is to restore legal protection (yes, con­stitutional protection) to all human beings, then I put this challenge to you who call yourselves Democrats: Get out of the Democratic Party. 
This is the time for action. There will probably never be a more opportune time in your lifetime. The Democrats have nominated a man for president who'is staunchly pro-abortion. Consider that Michael Dukakis introduced pro­abortion legislation in the Massachu­setts Legislature, at the behest of a notorious Boston abortionist, three years before the infamous Roe v. Wade decision. 
This is one who brags that he is a card-carrying member of the ACLU. I 


Doonesburv 
iGtO~ COMPL£TE5 HIS lVUR. I 
IT'S NEARJ...Y &MPTY, THOUGH.
ANOTH£R. ONE OF 
NANCY'S HANOI.ERS MA~
AN'{)
... NANCY's CI.0$75. 
H£R. seN[) 840< MCET QC
a/HAT'S ITU5W 70 88 
THe aoTHES SH&EKJ~

THIS~ AMYCAJ<TCR.'5 " :1 \ BWRixJM. ??r" 
I
I ~V­

hope that before you vote this Novem­ber you will take a look at the agenda of this organization. 
.Let me point out one item of this agenda for you to ponder. Because the Catholic Church is pro-life, regarding abortion as a most serious transgres­sion of God's law, and because many Church leaders have urged Catholics to ber of the ACLU. Think about it. 
What a powerful blow it would be for civil rights in this country if thousands, indeed millions, of Democrats would tell the leaders of the pro-abortion support pro-life candidates, the ACLU believes that the tax exempt status of the Catholic Church should be recinded. Do you believe that? Well, the ACLU believes it, and the Democratic can­didate says he is a card-carrying mem­
party that they have had enough. They aren't going to take it anymore. They can no longer be taken for granted to ·vote for pro-abortion Democratic can­didates just because Mom and Dad are 
or were Democrats. 
Over a century ago many good people walked away from a political party which had become the pro-slavery party. You Democrats would not for a single instant remain a member of a political party which espoused human slavery. You would walk away, and you should. Just as people in the last century chose freedom instead of slavery, 
choose life today instead of death.  
Professor  Edward  J. Murphy  is  the  
Matthews  Professor  of Law  at  the  
Notre Dame Law School.  

P.O. Box Q 
Election forum explains issues 
Dear Editor: 

On Monday, Nov. 7 at 7:00 p.m., Omicron Delta Epsilon, the economics honor fraternity, will sponsor an elec­tion forum in the library auditorium. Profs. David Betson, Kenneth Jameson, and James Rakowski of the economics department will offer their knowledge­able opinions and answer questions from the audience. 
While there have been various debates on the presidential election here on campus, none have explained the economic policies that Vice Presi­dent Bush and Governor Dukakis are proposing as this forum will. A stu­dentifaculty reception with food and beverages will follow. So do yourself a favor and shed your ignorance of the current economic problems facing the next president by attending this forum. 
Jeff Utz Vice President, ODE Nov. 5, 1988 
Shuttle bus needs improvement 
Dear Editor: 

Over the past few weekends, it has come to iny attention that the late night shuttle bus service is in need of im­provement. I particularly noticed this on Friday, Oct. 29. Due to the many dances and other activities taking place that weekend, the 2:05 run to Saint Mary's, which is supposed to be the last run of the night, was so packed that the driver had to make an extra run to ac­commodate everyone. Cramming the bus over three times its safe capacity is dangerous to passengers as well as a strain on the driver. It is highly in­considerate to risk injury to others by pushing, shoving, and otherwise stam­peding to secure a place on the bus. If it is imperative that one get home 
When the driver makes extra runs during the night, he is doing so for the sake of students' safety. Thus it is only proper that he should be treated with respect. However, this was certainly not the case Friday night. On the second run, several students begged the driver to wait for their friends who were on their way. If one expects to utilize the shuttle service, particularly late at night, it is not too much to ask that the person be on time to catch the bus rather than inconveniencing the driver (lnd other passengers by expecting them to wait. If students want per­sonalized service, they shoulq call a taxicab. 
Once the shuttle was finally on its way, the behavior of many of the pas­sengers was downright obnoxious. There was pointless screaming all the way home. When I politely asked an exceptionally loud girl to please keep her voice down, she merely smirked and said, "We're too cool to be quiet!" No, my dear, you're too inconsiderate to be cool. 
If there are several events going on in the same night, there should be extra buses running. If this compiles the costs of dance tickets or activity fees, so be it. Better a few extra bucks to ensure our safety than several million dollars in lawsuits when an accident occurs and serious injuries or death results. 
Laurie Ann Lesniewski McCandless Hall 
Nov. 1,.1988  
The  Observer  retains  
the  right  to  edit  all  
commentaries  submit­ 

ted to the Viewpoint department. Please note the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reaching print. 
quickly, he or she should call Campus .-----------------------. Security. 
Quote of the Day 
Garry Trudeau 
tu!TH TH& 5UIT5; THAT COM/39 TO f-1!, 753. W!U­JH/S 88 CASH~ I  NO,NQ I'M JUST BORROW­ING THE3M. I  "The American presidency will demand more than ringing manifestos issued from the rear of the battle. It will demand that the  
President  place  himself  in  
the  very  thick  of  the  fight;  
that  he  care  passionately  
about the fate of the people  
he  leads."  
John F.  Kennedy  

-------------------~·­
Accent

Monday, November 7, 1988 page 9 

ROBYN SIMMONS several cheering witnesses, assistant accent editor 
T 
but no one comes foward to testify on her behalf, not even he Accused" is a riveting her best friend who was movie that does more working in the bar that night. than hold the viewers' atten­Instead, everyone tion for two hours: it makes (including the lawyers one think, even after the film dealing with her case) con­is over. centrates on the circum­
"The Accused" revolves stances leading up to her as­around the brutal gang rape sault. Not only did Sarah of Sarah Tobias, who is have a less than pristine past, played remarkably well by but she came to the bar after Katheryn is very adamant witnesses on trial. reduced makes her character Jodie Foster. Aside from ex­having a fight with her live:in about charging Sarah's at­The film deals with a con­more believable. ploring the indignities of this lover, drank a bit, smoked tackers with Rape, she gives cept in law that few people The fact that Sarah is not a crime, "The Accused" digs some pot, and willingly went in to the other attorneys, and probably ever consider -the lily-white victim does not even deeper, causing the au­into the game room where the charge is reduced to responsibility of the witness. make her less of a victim, dience to question how our she allegedly "flirted" with Reckless Endangerment. In "The Accused" this re­and "The Accused" makes it legal system views rape and her future attackers. After the charge is reduced, sponsibility falls on the wit­clear that Sarah's dubious how we as a society view the Assistant District Attorney it seems as though the case is nesses who did nothing while character does not lessen the victim and in this case, the Katheryn Murphy (Kelly closed-except for Sarah. Not the rape occurred, but the crime. Foster's portrayal of eyewitnesses to the crime. McGillis) is assigned to han­only was Sarah denied the persons held most account­Sarah shows us how easy it is 

What is really surprising at dle Sarah's case. After chance to testify, but the able are the onlookers in the to put a person's character on the outset of the film is how reviewing the case, the crime will not even go on the bar who cheered on Sarah;s trial and transfer the guilt apathetic everyone is to defense attorneys convince books as rape. Sarah's out­attackers while they commit­from the attacker to the vic­Sarah's plight. While at a Katheryn that Sarah's tes­rage convinces Katheryn that ted the brutal act. tim -at least in the minds of local bar, Sarah is raped on timony would never be strong she made a terrible mistake, "The Accused" introduces those observing the circum­top of a pinball machine by enough to convict her as­and Katheryn decides to take the idea of Criminal Solicita­stances of Sarah's case, and three men in full view of sailants of-Rape. Although a radical step by putting the tion -where an eyewitness even the audience as well. 
can be guilty of goading or Another interesting aspect inticing another person to about this film is the bond commit a criminal act. The that forms between Katheryn men who cheered, clapped, and Sarah. Katheryn is obvi­and encouraged the rapists to ously a well-respected, well­violate Sarah are brought to paid attorney who normally trial in what could best be does not have dealings with a termed a legal long-shot, and blue collar woman with a lim­the film successfully main­ited education. During the tains the viewers' attention course of the film, Katheryn until the final verdict is an­and Sarah slowly break down nounced. the social and economic bar­
Not only are the legal con­riers between them as they cepts thought-provoking, but learn to trust each other. the Foster's and McGillis' The combination of superior characters are refreshingly performances and an innovat­human. It would have been ive plot make "The Accused" very easy to make Katheryn a very powerful film. It Murphy the super-attorney forces us to reconsider some who never makes a mistake, very important aspects of the but the fact that she did legal system, while question­make a mistake in allowing ing our views on attackers the initial Rape charge to be and victims. 
_In court, Sarah Tobias (Jodie Foster) recounts the circumstances of her brutal rape In Paramount Pictures' 'The Accused.' 
Sentimental rnob movie will make viewers laugh 



JOE BUCOLO accent writer 
T 
hey always like you exchange for ownership of a when you're someone fishing boat, his lifetime else." This is Jerry's motto in dream. The plan is set; Gino David Mamet's new motion signs a confession and waits picture "Things Change." The for the arrival of Monday beauty of the film is that it is morning when he will be "someone else" in relation to locked in prison for three 
-
others in the recent swarm of years. mob-related films. "Things To ensure that nothing in Change" is an innovative dra­the plan goes awry, the mob 
Jerry (Joe Mantegna, left) and Gino (Don Ameche, right) gamble during their Lake Tahoe fling In the
matic comedy--estranged boss assigns Jerry (Joe Man­
film 'Things Change.' 

from the mob family of films­tegna) to closely watch Gino -worthy of even the most out­until Monday. Jerry ap­on his phony confession and, comedy of errors when Gino provide brilliant perfor­rageous of movie ticket preciates this assignment on Monday, aeliver him to the is mistaken for a mafia boss. mances. Ameche, star of over prices. since it serves as a chance police. Out of compassion for What makes this film so fifty movies, is so believable 
The film deals with a shoe for him to redeem himself of Gino, Jerry alters the plan irresistable is its careful as Gino that viewers will shiner named Gino (Don his past blunders. somewhat and soon the two blending of wit and sentimen­have a difficult time accept­Ameche) who agrees to take Jerry and Gino check into are on a plane to Lake Tahoe tality. Jerry is constantly get­ing him in other roles. Man­the rap for a murder commit­their designated hotel room for one last fling. This final ting into trouble while trying tegna, star of "Three ted by a big-time mob chief in where Jerry is to coach Gino hurrah, however, turns into a to play the role of an impor­Amigos" and "Suspect," is a 
tant mobster; naive Gino rising star who takes credit 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
finds himself in some trouble for most of the films funny of his own when he befriends one-liners. some of the most powerful of "Things Change" is a witty, mob bosses. As the film refreshing film that enter­progresses, Gino wins the tains its audience from the hearts of Jerry, the mobsters, minute the theatre's coming and the viewing audience. attractions end. Plot and Jerry's tough cover is paper characters like these do not thin and soon his compassion come along often and should for Gino and dislike of the not be missed. Some things mob shines through. change, but David Mamet's 
The movie's stars, Don creative genius and ability to Ameche and Joe Mantegna, tell a story never will. 

Monday, November 7, 1988 
page 10 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO wrestling team placed second at Sunday's Michigan State Invitational. 118-pound junior Andy Radenbaugh, 126-pound Marcus Gowens and 177-pound senior co-captain Chris Geneser won individual championships. The Invite was won by Edinboro, which finished seventh in the nation last year. Further details will appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. -The Observer 
lewis Hall, led by quarterback Ellen Mauch, upset top-ranked and previously undefeated Farley in women's Interhall playoff action Sunday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Mauch ran for a Lewis TD and later threw. a 25-yard touchdown pass to Sue Lippa late in the second half, breaking a 6-6 tie. Mauch then ran in the conversion to make the score 14-6. The Lewis defense then held as Farley tried to tie. 
Lewis will play Breen-Phillips for the championship.-The Observer 
At the Chicago Marathon held recently, Lewis Hall's Suzanne Von Luhrte placed first in the female 18-19 age group. Stanford Hall's Tom Szott and Dillon Hall's Mike Leahy placed second and ninth, respectively, in the male 18-19 age group. -Associated Press 

lnterhall football equipment return will take place Tuesday at gate 10 of the stadium for the following teams: Off-Campus at 6, Zahm at 6:20, Sorin at 6:40, St. Ed's at 7, Pangborn at 7:20, Mor­rissey at 7:40, Keenan at 8 and Holy Cross at 8:20. A $5 late fee will be assessed to each player that returns equipment sets after the hall's designated date. ~The Observer 
An SMC intramural racquetball doubles tournament for all Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff will have its entry deadline at 5 p.m. Thursday at Angela Athletic Facility. Participants will schedule matches on their own following the timeline established. For more information, call 284-5549. -The Observer 
lnterhall ice hockey teams may sign up for first semester practice ice times today at 1 p.m. at the ice rink. The cost is $50.00 per hour and time is limited to one hour per week. Telephone reserva­tions will not be taken until2 p.m. on Monday. Any questions, call Tom Carroll at 239-5227. -The Obser­ver 
An SMC coed wallyball tournament will be held Friday and Saturday. Teams consist of two females and two males. The entry deadline is Wed­nesday at 5 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Call 284-5549 for more information. -The Observer 
The USF&G Flag Football Drive to Cure Paralysis is scheduled for Friday, Nov. 11, through Sunday, Nov. 13. The entry deadline is today. Teams may register at Non-Varsity. Call239-6100 for more details. -The Observer 
A fencing demonstration will be held at the fencing gym above gate 4 of the Joyce ACC on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m Demonstrators are three­time U.S. Olympian Michael Marx, 1986-87 Notre. Dame MVP Derek Holeman and L.E.P. Greg Meul­ler. -The Observer 
An NVA scuba meeting will be held Wednesday. The brief informational meeting will be at the Rockne Memorial room 218 at 6:30p.m. Classes will start the following Sunday. -The Ob­server 
The Off-Campus basketball team wants to know who is interested in playing for the tearn this coming Interhall season. Prospective players should contact Joe at 271-0477. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE Apple Computer, Inc. Ia looking tor a motivated, enthuelastlc Individual to  Need Two Penn. G.A. 's and will pay un­limited green stuff Call 232-9541 and leave message  I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S--DAN x4115 I need Penn State studs-Kate X387 4  FOCUS ON YOUR CAREER A. WORKSHOP FOR ANY STUDENT WHO IS UNCLEAR CONCERNING  CHOICES AND CHALLENGES FOR AN EMERGING LAY LEADERSHIP WED.-NOV.9-7:30 PM  
'  .  TYPING AVAILABLE 287~2 Matt "'Schmear· Gallagher lor VP EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-70011. Typing. C•ll P•t Ill 271-8118. Loc.oted 2 mi. north ol ­o ....... LOST/FOUND I LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN LEATHER. CASE AT SMC HOLY CROSS SYR. IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE FILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580  be a Student Repre...,tatlve at Notre O.me. Knowledge ol Maclntoah software products •s well as owner­ship ol a M•clntosh ts desired. You should be • freshman, sophomore or lunlor •!'d be m•rklltlng oriented. We require 5-10 hours (e week) ol your time. You will help organize end run events u well •• put up poate<a and distribute flyers. II you ore Interested, pleeae c.ll 312-399-4903 end leave your name and • time you can be ruched. SELL your TEXTBOOKS lor $$$ Only 3 blocks lrom campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just oil N.D. Ave. Phil 233-2342 WANTED TO BUY-STERIO­RECEIVER,TAPE,CD,SPEAKERS. FAIR PRICE. CALL JEFF 18n ""NEEDED-(  NEED 1 STUD & 4 GAs(PENN ST) Melissa x2707 PLEASEI I need 1 PENN ST. otud. C.ll Kathy x3212 NEED 10 USC TICKETS CALL284-5010 LEAVE MESSAGE NEED TWO (2) PENN ST. GA'S--MY DAD WILL PAY YOUR TUITIONII MIKE x1817 NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX. $$CAll ><2133. I NEED 4 PENN ST. GA's--will pay mucho dinero $$$$$$111 Please call Bob at x2321 and we'll talkl TOP$ FOR GOOO SO. CAL SEATS. NEED 2-e. CAU KEVIN COLLECT AT  I NEED 1 USC TICKET PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 SEE ·2 HOT VA. FRIENDS. SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE TIX. X5088 CHRISTINE HELPI NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SII CALL 2n-1513 PERSONALS N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT. L.A. COLISEUM. 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338. hi ag.  THEIR CAREER DIRECTION. TONIGHT, 6:30 p.m.· 8:30 p.m.; FOSTER ROOM, LAFORTUNE. PRE­SENTED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT. STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS INVITED. I need a ride to LOUISVILLE lor Thanks­giving. leave early Tuesday. Nov. 22. Name terms. Call T.J. at 11 3810 Does anyone have access to 2 USC tick­ets? or know ol any possible sources? Please call Susan 283-4266 Tony Rice, We had laith in your arm and you really came through lor us. The entire team has worked and sacriliced lor the student body. You're welcome lor our support. ••• LONG ISLAND STUDENTS ••• Don't go home lor X-mas by plane. Take the Bus From Helllll About $80 round trip. Fliers will be mailed soon. ONLV OORKS  P.E. CHAPEL with Fr. Michael Himes Dr. Doris Donelly All ARE WELCOME HAPPY 21 MIKE-THE STUD OF DILLON (OR IS THAT DYLAN) HALL NOW WHERE'S OUR MONEV?I LOVE, THE FAMILY Jill SQUARED-­WHAT A WEEKENDIII!I PRO-LIFE The pro-lite question is not just abortion. It costs over $2000 to have a child in the hospital. Who will pay the costs lor poor mothers with out insur­ance? Shouldn't this be the question Bush is addressing? THINK AGAIN-VOTE DEMOCRAT  
LOST:BUNCH OF KEYS AROUND NO POST OFFICE. PLEASE CALL JULI 239-6335. LOST: light-brown teddy-bear .W green ribbon on 1(}29 at Carroll Haunted House; responds to "Cookie";very sen­tlmental,call 4666  RIDE TOf'ROM ST. LOUIS( WEEKEND OF NOV. 11-13( will sh•re expen-& driving( C.ll K•thy x3781(  (805) 1148-11111. LEAVE MESSAGE. NEED PENN ST TIX TERRY 4013 $$$$$$$$$$ IN ABSOLUTE DESPERATE NEED OF 2 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL MIKE 3531 OR COME TO 320 KEENAN GOOD LUCK MICHAEL MESSAGLIA  WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? WHAT DO THEY DO? COME SEE... EXPO ROMA'88 Attention SMC Freehman Clue # 2 Red, Red Paint It Red November 12  FlVI LOU (x1433) UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-3889 -Tiits.weei<· o'Ni:Y::u·t.iiv·;;w··ol'vv BEATS THE REST. GIVE OUR DRIVER ANY OTHER STORE'S COUPON AND WE'LL TAKE $1 OFF YOUR HALF OR FULL SHEETIII OPEN UNTlL 3 AM FRI-SAT 2n-8889  DON'T YOU THINK it we illegalize abortion many poor women will do rt themselves? Shouldn't we set up pro­grams to entice women not to abort in­stead? Or would you rather just call them criminals? Will BUSH do anything? THINK AGAIN-VOTE DEMOCRAT  
··········································  
HELPI Someone ptcked up my new L.L. Bean Flying Tiger leather jacket during the Halloween party at Senior Bar Sat. night. Any lnlo call Mike at 287·5502 no questl0rl8 asked. Please return ij-ij was my only warm tacket. LOST: a double stranded freshwater PEARL BRACELET at the MORRISSEY FORMAL last lriday. Has great sentimen­tal valuel II lound, PLEASE call Beverly at x2605.  FOR SALE Plane Tix to CA lor XMAS OHARE to Orange Cnty 12'17 to 1115 Craig at 289­8415 880­STON"BOSTON"BOSTON'BOSTON For sale: round trip plane ticketa tram Chicago to Boston lor Thankagiv­ing.Piease call Beth x3705  Pretty please with a CHERRY on top (no pun, guys). I need lour Penn St. GAs. Jell x23n. NEEDED: Two PENN STATE STUDENT tickets. Call MEGAN 25n Thanksl I MUST HAVE A PENN STATE TICKET Will PAY BIG $$$$ CAll STEVE X1801 Six Penn State GA's Best Offer by 11111188 CALL (616) 962-1664  before long a lemale student will be se­lected to represent NO at thhe bowl game. let's not embarrass NO again. let's pick someone with a little class who knows something about the Irish. CLUB 23 Try the pool table or Englloh darts. COMING SOONI TOM KING'S 21ot BD  HEY SENIORS ... Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell Going to an SVR is hell. You and I, we both know that. The Christmas Formal is where it's at. Be sure ro sign-up before you leave for Thanksgiving ... HO HO HO  DO YOU KNOW that a high percent ol the homeless are children. some wrth­out parents. Many grow up to tum to crime. Who else will take care of them? You know Reagan cut ·lunding lor the homeless drastically. THINK AGAIN-VOTE DEMOCRAT NO-USC TRIP PACKAGE FOR SALE.  
- lOSTIIIIIelt my PEUGEOT watch in the pool room on Thursday 1027 between 2:30 and 4:00PM. ~ is gold and silver with a white lace and a moon dial. REWARD. No questions call GREG 283·1853. lost: Green sweat pants between JACC 'and North Dining Hall Call II 3810 .... ·········\······ $$$$ REWARD $$ 20.00 $$ REWARD $$$$ Bookbag taken at South Dining. DESPERATEL V need 2 yellow spiral "Eiectrophysica" nlbks in there. Call laura 2817 or 2815. $$$$$$$$$ 20.00 REWARD$$$$$$$$$$$ LOST: room keys with 202 on them on "KAL" key nng probably at BURNING  FOR SALE WOMENS SKI JACKET & BIBS WITH 2 PENN STATE GA'S, ALL FOR $215. CALL TRICIA 284-5211 TICKETS NEED PENN STATE TIX­PLEASE CALL SHEILA-271·9386 Mullin Ia coming to NO Iindy but ehe needs a tlclcet lor PENN STATE (either GA or sludenl) Please call Beth x1264. we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would be really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call wa~er x2151 or michelle x2844  I need 6 Penn St. TIX, John x4364 CONDITIONAL LOVE? You know it. My brother will only come to see me ill have PSU tix (1-3 stud or GA's) Call KATH x1313 it you can helpl need at least 2 penn st. ga's chris at 1352. The respect ol an older brother-isn't it wonderful? In order to retain my brother's respect I need 2 PENN STATE tixlll Have pily-3767 NEED PENN STATE G.A. & STUDENT TIX CAll DON # 272-0456 This Calilomia Nat1ve Needs 4 USC nx Please help out. II 1805 John  11-11-88 HELPIII I desparalely need a ride to exit 22 on the PA turnpike lor Thanksgiving. Can leavetetum anytime!! Will share ex­penses-' driving I Call Aileen x4975. ························· I NEED PENN ST. TIX 2 GA, 2 STU Call JJ 1661 THANK-YOU ST.PATRIC LIESI Buoh VS. LIBERTY Don't Buy the Buoh Llel  ONLY A GRINCH ... would dare miss the Senior Christmas dance on Dec. 2. Even little Susie Lou Who is going... To the beautilul, fed-haired. Irish princass who was wearing a grey sweat­shirt in the lobby ol the Brare at 2:30 Thurs Nov 3: I was mesmerized by your grace and sub-limity. I was the awestruck gentle-man wearing black, standing at the table. I have a peculiar weakness-I love to share ice cream and witty con­versation with exquisite women. Please help cure this weakness; meet me Mon. night at 6:00 in the candy store in Lal'or­lune. My brown hair will lop an outfit ol red and black. HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY, LVNNII! Don't  CALL 284-4223 TO THE GUY WHO DELIVERS THE OB­SERVER TO SMC, I ONLV WISH OUR PAPERBOY AT HOME WAS THAT CUTE. LETS HAVE DESSERT SOME­TIME, I'M BUYING. REPL V HERE. THE TOP 10 REASONS TO WISH KEllV O'BRIEN A HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY: 10. SHE'S THE FIRST OF HER FRIENDS TO TURN 21. 9. SHE'S FROM ROME (NY) 8. SHE EMINATES RAINBOWS AND THE LUCK 0' THE IRISH. 7. SHE IS THE ULTIMATI; BALLROOM  
- HOUSE about s1x weeks ago ALSO LOST: blue Macro leX1 ("Sly") call Sly at 3122 il you have inlo FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 2111­291-7153. FOUR FLAGS F#.;,M Bed 'n B..-k!ut just 20 mi...:. rrom NO. ~I lor •II NO Kllvltlu. Fie..-.. now. 818-471-5711.  PINae give me Penn St. GA'sl Okay. I'll pay good money lor them, but I really need .2 GA's. Call Kathleen at 283-4220. I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS IN A BIG BAD WAY. All GA'S, All 20 OF THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CAll BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CAll TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A FREE GINSU KNIFE SET­DON'T DELAY-CALL TODAY Ill ....········.............. . NEED PENNST TICKETS CALL MIKE- Need 3 USC GAs pleaselll Call Judy at 239-6515. Also need Penn St. GAs. USC PACKAGE FOR SALE $400 or Best offer .Call Sarah al284-431 0 or Martha-(313)685-9494.' ssssss NEED PENN ST. GA'S CAU TASHA X4072 $$$$$$ HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 PENN ST.  ANYONE want a USC plane ticket? call Cathy .II 167 4 VICKI, Can you think ol a long list ol EXOTIC ways to celebrate your birthday, all in ONE night? WE CANI "The Garden level" (and J.B.) . HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY! ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM PRESENTS PROF. DAVID LINK, DEAN OF NOTRE DAME'S LAW SCHOOL,  worry about getting old, because your hair will never turn white(maybe just BLUE)II love ya, the Babes and Studs KEEP AMERICA SAFEIII Support Gun Control For more information about rally on Sunday call 287-1711 Bodacious ta-tahs are NOT everything ...  DANCER. 6. 'CAUSE KELL V GREEN IS HER FAVORITE COLOR. 5. HER FAMIL VIS FUN TO ROAD-TRIP WITH. 4. SHE DATES A HUMAN TEDDYBEAR. 3. SHE LOVES BIOLOGY. 2. SHE CAN EASILY SPOT I'.N EXECUTIVE "WITH HIS PANTS DOWN" 1. SHE'S GOING TO RAISE All OUR CHILDREN (INCLUDING MARY'S TWINS). HAVE A GOOD DAY. WE LOVE YOU A WHOLE BUNCHI MON,KATH,MAR & VAL.  
1628  STUDS  SPEAKING  ON  "HOW  I THINK  YOU  
WANTED  ............................................ My parents would love to see the I 1 IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 GAs. lisa. 233-6407. Thnx.  CALL Bill x4306 Need Penn State tickets. student and GA.  SHOULD PREPARE FOR SCHOOL," TONIGHT AT 7:00 FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE. All ARE INVITED!  LAW P.M.,  To the one who's not REAllV my ROOM MATEI Happy 22nd and Welcome to the Ranks ol the Official Old Farts ol the Senior Class, KIM GARRISON IIIII Living  SENIORSIII THE SKI TRIP IS COMING. Hot Tubs, Slopes, and Parties-Get ReadyII  
Jamie 1121  with you has TRULV been a GREAT EX­ 
- OPPORTUNITY IN THE TRAVEL IN­ I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S SO  PERIENCE. Happy Trails. Love, the EX­ DESPERATEL V NEED 2 PENN ST STU­ 
DUSTRY!  THAT THE NmANV LIONS CAN  OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS  FOCUS ON YOUR CAREER  ( I Hopa) GEEKIIII  DENT TIX.  
n.. I  1 oollege tour operator Ia looking  LOSE TWO MORE DIE-HARD FANS.  PENN STATE GAME. CAU COLLECT  A WORKSHOP FOR ANY STUDENT  PLEASE CAll 284-4322.  
lor an ellicient, reeponaib and organized  CAU X4652  AFTER 5 PM 216-833-1072 FRANCIS.  WHO  IS  UNCLEAR  CONCERNING  
campus  repreeentative  lo  market  a  THEIR  CAREER  DIRECTION.  THE MOST IMPORTANT FILM  
Spring Break trip on campus. Earn tree  NEED 2 OR 3 USC TIX JIM 3371  TONIGHT,  6:30  p.m.­ 8:30  p.m.;  YOU WILL SEE THIS YEAR...  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DAVEI  
trips,  and  good  commiuione  while  I NEED Penn State slu. tix. $$$  FOSTER  ROOM, LAFORTUNE. PRE­ CRY OF REASON  
gaining great busi,_ experience. For  call John I  1806  I need Penn St. GA's & student tickets.  SENTED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT.  THURS. 11110 8:00 PM •t CSC  WHY ARE YOU SOBER?  
more information call 1-800-999-4300.  271-8311  STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS INVITED.  

--~-------~---------­
---------------~--~------~------------------­

Monday, November 7, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Tough TCU wins over ND swimmers 
By KEVIN REISCH Sports Writer 
As they headed down the final stretch, Irish swimmer Chris Petrillo appeared to have a shot at victory. However, his Texas Christian opponent had other intentions, making a pow­erful lunge and reaching the wall a fraction of a second before Petrillo. 
This 400-yard freestyle relay Friday night at Rolfs Aquatic Center provided a fitting con­clusion to the entire competi­tion at the Notre Dame Invita­tional. The Notre Dame swimming program turned in a strong showing but continu­ally had to settle for second best against a tough TCU squad. 
"Texas Christian redefined the level of competition at this meet," explained Irish coach Tim Welsh. "They gave us a new standard to approach." 
The Irish men's team, out­scored by the Horned Frogs 226-162, finished ahead of Illinois-Chicago (138), Wabash (132), Xavier (114), Marquette (84), and Wayne State (50). 
Exhibiting strength in the 
distance events, Notre Dame 
improved upon its results from 
the previous night, when it fell 
to TCU in a dual meet. In the 
1000-yard freestyle relay, 
Ismail 
continued from page 16 
said Rice coach Jerry Berndt, whose winless Owls fell to 0-8. "We made two crucial mis­takes. We had a couple of guys out of lanes. But as soon as he hit it, I knew he had a touch­down." 
Ismail surprisingly got the chance to return another kick­off with the Irish leading 38-9 early in the fourth quarter. "The Rocket" showed his grat­itude by picking the ball up off the ground, cutting to the left 
SWEATER SALE 
November 7-11, 9am -LaFortune -Room 108 

100% Wool Sweaters Imported from Greece Quality Sweaters -Bargain price Corinthian Trading Company 
David Ledrick and Brian Rini 
combined for a win with a time 
of 9:40.68. 
Sophomore Jim Byrne played 
a key role in three of five 
second-place outcomes for the 
Irish. Employed as both a 
leadoff and an anchor man, 
Byrne paced his relay teams in 
the 800-yard freestyle, 400-yard 
butterfly, and 400-yard back­
stroke races. 
In the 3-meter diving event, 
Ed Veome and Adam Hirschfeld sprung to the top with a combined score of 392.65. . Veome and Pat Dugan teamed up to capture second in 1-meter 
diving. 
Like the men's squad, the 
Notre Dame women looked im­
pressive despite dropping the 
majority of events to their 
main adversaries. The Horned 
Frogs sped past the Irish (226­
186), who in turn topped Xavier 
(130), Illinois-Chicago (114), 
Saint Mary's (112), and Mar­
quette (58). 
Sophomore Amy Tri entered 
four races and incredibly led 
her relay teams to second place 
each time. The combination of 
Acampora, Quirk, Pamenter, 
and Moster in the 400-yard 
backstroke relay accounted for 
a triumph in 4:16.15. 
In the 1-meter diving event, 
Jennifer Kipp and Allison 
Baker captured the crown. by 
side of the field and racing 83 yards to burn Rice for another touchdown. 
"The last one we were just trying to squib it and take away their rhythm, but they still hit on us," said Berndt. 
The second touchdown kick­off return tied a school record previously set by Paul Castner against Kalamazoo in 1922. 
While Ismail's kickoff returns gave the Irish enough points to secure the victory, Notre Dame's offense also suc­cessfully rebounded from a lackluster showing last week at Navy. The Irish scored on four 
6pm 


The Observer I Mike Moran  
The  Notre  Dame  swimming  teams  battled  the  weekend. Kevin Reisch has details of the second- 
tough Texas Christian Horned Frogs  over  the  palce finishes at right.  ·  

board. In 3-meter diving/Cum­mings and Ann Blake also came in third. 
"This year's team is vastly improved all-around over last year's," said coach Dennis Cooper. "For one thing, we filled all the events, which we were not-able to do last year. Also, we were competitive in some of the relays." 
posting a score of 329 points. Kay Richter and Kris Penn col­laborated to reach second in 3­meter diving. 
"I think we had a very good meet. We swam more relaxed, more competitive, and more aggressive than last night throughout the program," said Welsh. "We are characteristic­ally a team of depth, and this 
of their five first-half poses­sions, with a Ricky Watters fumble on the Rice 21 stopping the only non-scoring drive. 
"Rice is a tough team coming off the ball, but we had some­thing to prove," said jWtior of­fensive guard Tim Grunhard. ~'Our number-one goal was to get back to basics and get that attitude we had at the begin­ning of the season." 
Notre Dame had 14 different players carry the ball Saturday for a total of 294 yards on 52 carries. Mark Green led the way with five rushes for 66 yards, including a 40-yard scamper in the first quarter that led to Notre Dame's second touchdown. 
The Irish added two more touchdowns in the second half, the first coming on a three-yard run by Anthony Johnson and the second on a one-yard jaunt by Tony Brooks. Kicker Billy Hackett, who replaced Reggie Ho this weekend, had the first extra point blocked. A two­point conversion by Johnson followed the Brooks score. 
The two teams exchanged meet was a measurement of our depth." 

For St. Mary's, the perfor­mance represented a marked improvement over last year. The squad consistently finished fourth or fifth in the swimming events. 
Katie Cavanaugh and Carrie Cummings leaped to third place from the 1-meter diving 
field goals in the final two minutes of the half (Parsons hitting from 41, and Hackett from 42), and the Irish held a 31-6 halftime lead. 
"I thought that offensively we played awfully well up front," said Holtz. "I was a little disappointed with our ability to execute in the passing game." 
Irish quarterback Tony Rice completed three of eight passes for 80 yards, and backup Kent Graham was 6-of-10 for 65 yards. 
The Owls were able to move the ball when quarterback Quentis Roper (21-of-35 for 197 yards) had time to throw the ball. But that wasn't often. Frank Starns, George Wil­liams, Chris Zorich and Wes Pritchett each had turns sack­ing Roper, while Michael Stonebreaker led the Irish with 13 total tackles .. 
Notre Dame also broke up four passes and forced four turnovers. Jeff Aim and D' Juan Francisco had interceptions, and Pritchett and Steve Roddy recovered Owl fumbles. 
"With their offensive line, a lot of the other schools had used kind of a head fake--faking one way and going the other way," said Zorich. "We saw that on­the films and decided to do that too." 
The Notre Dame offense wasn't quite done at halftime. A 19-yard run by Rodney Cul­ver with 9: 15 to play in the third made it 38-6. · Mter a Parsons 45-yarder in the first play of the final quar­ter, Ismail took off with his second touchdown. Hackett kicked a 28-yarder to raise the lead to 48-9, and Joe Jarosz seemingly ended the highlights with a six-yard touchdown run with 46 seconds left in the game. 
But Rice's Nigel Codrington blocked Hackett's ensuing ex­tra point attempt, and Billy Stone galloped 85 yards to the Irish endzone. The run gave Rice two points and closed the scoring at 54-11. It was the first time the new NCAA conversion rule had come into effect in Division I-A play. 
.. I( ~.. I( 

UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
"THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST" 
***OPEN UNTIL 3AM FRIDAY!SATURDAY 
OWNER-MATT HIGHBARGER ND '89CATERING FOR TAILGATERS & SYRs 
·~..~'~.......................... ~~~~........~.l __.............m..........
~.................... ....... 
I 50 CENTS OFF I $1.00 OFF I $2.00 OFF I 
II ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA I
I 

I (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) {LARGER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN TWO 16"ROUND PIZZAS) I 
; FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY 
I

I 277-8889 I 277-8889 277-8889 . 
UNIVERSITY PillA DELIVERY exp. 1W1188 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1W1188 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1W1188 
, 0055 ~ RD. n 100~~.RD.-.n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·18·0·5·5·S·~·R·D··~n~~~~~~~~~~~~·i
.............................~........ 
-----------~---------------------------------------~~-~-----~­
page 12 The Observer Monday, November 7, 1988 
Big mouths cost Oklahoma State; USC wins big 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
blocks and Shea, Shelton and freshman Jennifer Slosar each registered five kills. 
Freshman setter Julie Brem­ner provided her hitters with 22 assists and cleverly set up the Irish attack while helping bring the team up to 14-9 for the season. 
"I'm pleased we didn't drop down to their level," said Irish coach Art Lambert. "We started out a little slow, but we didn't panic and came back and forced them to play our game. 
"It was good teamwork and I think Julie Bremner played a smart match. We beat a team we should have beaten the way we should have beaten them." 
Friday night, the Irish had to work to beat the Hurons of Eas­tern Michigan as they won the four-game match 15-8, 18-16, 15­8 and 15-10. 
Eastern Michigan's Roxanne Munch took a bite out of the Notre Dame's defense, tallying 21 kills, but the Irish countered hopes ended when wide receiver Brent Parker dropped a perfect pass in the end zone. 

No one officially confirmed the reason for the penalty, but Limbrick admitted he was heckling Oklahoma linebacker Richard Dillon after side judge Michael Borgard broke up a shoving match between the two 
players. 
Southern Cal 35, California 3 

Rodney Peete passed for a career-high 305 yards and three touchdowns and Cleveland Col­ter returned an interception 29 yards for a touchdown as USC routed California. 
The Trojans are 8-0, and 6-0 in Pac-10 play . 
Miami, Fla. 34, Tulsa 3 

Steve Walsh passed for three touchdowns to lead third­ranked Miami to a Homecom­ing Day victory. 
Walsh, who has thrown 20 touchdown passes in Miami's last five games, tied Vinny Tes­taverde's school record of 26 in a season. 
The Hurricanes are now 7-1 and Tulsa fell to 2-6. 
West Virginia 51, Cincinnati 13 

Major Harris threw three
touchdown passes before suf­
f · h

ermg a ip injury as No.4 West 
with a weapon of their own as ner added eight digs as well as 
Waller finished with 19 kills for 57 assists to help the Irish make 
a team-high .571 hitting the transition from defense to 
percentage and eight total offense. 

blocks. "Our heads weren't in the 
Bennett helped control the match against Eastern Mic­
net as well, registering 17 kills higan," said Lambert. "But we 
and adding a team-high nine played well enough to get the 
total blocks. win and come back strong to 
Shelton led the Irish defen­control the game against Mic­
sively with 10 digs and Brem-higan. 
...................l 

After your first 100
I COPIES\ 
copies of one original at the regulat price, the rest are halfprice.
HALF 
kinko·s·
OFF 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23 
271-m:B 

COACH'S + 
Accepting applications for 

•
cooks, busers, kitchen help. Benefits include PAID vacations. 

i 
PART TIME 8 -20 hrs.lwk. FULL TIME 40¢ hrs.lwk. 
+ 2046 South Bend Ave. 
; 277-7678 
:................. 

Virginia used big plays against Cincinnati, 2-7, to remain un­beaten. 
West Virginia, 9-0, put the game out of reach with a 24­point third quarter. 
The Mountaineers' record is their best since the school started playing football in 1891. 
Florida St. 59, 
S. Carolina 0 
Peter Tom Willis, starting for the first time this season, passed for 271 yards and four touchdowns as Florida State took advantage of mistakes to rout South Carolina. 
It was the worst loss ever suf­fered at home by South Carolina, which had been riding a 14-game home winning streak. 
The Seminoles improved to 8-1. 
UCLA 16, Oregon 6 
Troy Aikman threw for a touchdown and backup tail­back Brian Brown ran 68 yards for another score as UCLA struggled to a Pacific 10 Con­ference victory. 
UCLA, 5-1 in the Pac 10 and 8-1 overall, used the two second-half touchdowns to stay in the Rose Bowl race. 
The Bruins rebounded from 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
•Tinted Contact Lenses Daily or ExtendedWear 
Bausch & Lomb or 
Sortmate B 
a 34-30 loss at Washington State last week conference and 6-3 for the season. 
Michigan 22, Minnesota 7 
Mike Gillette kicked five field goals and Tony Boles rushed for 184 yards on 32 carries as Michigan won the Little Brown Jug. 
Michigan, leaders of the Big Ten, improved to 6-2-1 overall and 5-0-1 in the conference. A victory over Illinois next week would put the Wolverines in the Rose BowL 
Illinois 21, Indiana 20 
Jeff George threw a 5-yard touchdown pass to Mike Bel­lamy with 26 seconds left to lead Illinois past 20th-ranked Indiana in a Big Ten game. 
The victory improved Illi­nois' record to 5-3-1, 4-1-1 in the Big Ten. Indiana fell to 6-2-1 and 4-2. Linebacker Julyon Brown recovered a fumble by Indiana quarterback Dave Schnell at the Hoosier 31-yard-line with 
1:48 to play to set up the win­ning drive. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

$39.98 
per pair 
2 Pairs for 
$99.98 
2 Difierenl Col?rs 
Associated Press 
Some loose lips helped sink Oklahoma· State. 
The 12th-ranked Cowboys fell 31-28 Saturday to intrastate rival Oklahoma, ranked eighth, and a few off-the-cuff remarks by Oklahoma State fullback Garrett Limbrick may have made the difference. 
~~ 
,.
• t' ~ 
' ­
-.... " 
.., --­
With his team trailing 31-28 late in the fourth quarter, quar­terback Mike Gundy marched the Cowboys from their nine to the Oklahoma 20 and seemed poised to put Oklahoma State in the lead. 
But on third-and-2, Limbrick was hit with a personal foul call, the Cowboys were penalized 15 yards, and their 
71 ~ 
Michigan's Tony Boles ran for 184 yards to lead the Wolverines to 
victory over Minnesota Saturday. This and all the major college football action are detailed beginning above. 

. An eye exam is required at the time of · 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Limitea time offer. 


Mishawaka 1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center acrou from Scouadale Mall next door fD Osco Dru~ 

Monday, November 7, 1988 
The Observer 

Ditka can relax: Bears win 
Associated Press second play from scrimmage. Patriots 21, Dolphins 10 
Boomer Esiason threw three While Mike Ditka sat in a touchdown passes, his first in John Stephens continued his hospital room and watched on three games. He was 15-for-23 strong running with 104 yards, television, his Chicago Bears for 318 yards as Cincinnati giving him more than 100 yards 
made him feel pretty good. rolled up more than 500 y~rds in three consecutive games. Ditka, who suffered a mild of offense. The last Patriot to do that was 
heart attack Wednesday, The Bengals scored on their Don Calhoun in 1976. watched with his wife and a first three possessions and had Stephens had a 13-yard TD doctor at Lake Forest Hospital little trouble with the Steelers, run and Bob Perryman scored on Sunday and he had to like 2-8, their worst record since from the 1. On the series what he saw as the Bears beat 1969, when they went 1-13 in leading to those touchdowns, Tampa Bay 28-10. Chuck Noll's first year as head the Patriots stayed entirely on 
"I think it would have been coach. the ground. Of the 23 total plays harder on him not to watch the on those two series, Stephens, game," said his wife Diana. Eagles 30, Rams 24 a first-round draft choice from "That would be more stress." Northwestern (La.) State, ran 
The game was a good test for Philadelphia's defense vic­15 times for 75 of the 120 yards.Mike Tomczak, who once again timized Jim Everett for four replaced an injured Jim interceptions--the Rams quar­Giants 29, Cowboys 21 McMahon at quarterback. terback had yielded just five, Tomczak, often the subject of fewest in the NFL. The Giants won their fourth Ditka tirades on the sidelines, Randall Cunningham threw consecutive game against the completed 18 of 26 passes for three touchdown passes, two to dregs of the NFL and stayed in 269 yards and upped his record rookie tight end Keith Jackson, control of the NFC east. Mter 
to 12-2 as a replacement starter who entered the game as the mediocre outings in two wins for McMahon. league's leading receiver with over Detroit and one against 
"I played within my limita­51 catches. Cunningham, who Atlanta, New York surged to 26 tions," Tomczak said. "The of­twice left the game with a sore points in the first half against fense put some points on the right ankle, completed 22 of 39 Dallas, 2-8. The Cowboys have board and we broke the third­passes for 323 yards for lost six straight, the first time quarter jinx." Philadelphia, 5-5. they have dropped that many 
The Rams, 7-3, had won five in one season since their first 

Bengals 42, Steelers 7 straight road games. They year. 
nearly got No. 6 but Everett, 

At Cincinnati, Eddie Brown whose six completions carried could go higher than that." "We're competitive, but
set a club record with 216 yards the Rams to the Eagles' 18, was receiving, including an 86-yard picked off by William Frizzell . But attracting top-ranked we're also very good friends," 
Bowls 

teams to bowl games involves Shover said. "All these bowlscoring play on the hosts' with 24 seconds left. 
continued from page 16 

more than . money, and guys are good friends of mine. ~••••••••~~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••e major drawback for the Gator McCandless said the Gator "I don't blame the Gator 
; SOPHO~I10RES-Interested : Bowl, Shover said: Bowl's fringe benefits make it Bowl for being so aggressive," 
.!! "I would assume it would be . more appealing. Most impor­Shover added. "We're like that, 
·i· 

: in the pJsition of Sophomore : We're guaranteed a national tantly, the Gator Bowl is too. I think we (the Fiesta 
• Ill market and they're on a pay second only to the Rose Bowl Bowl) were No.13 when we 
~ Committee chairperson for Junior i · network." in seating capacity. started and now we're No.2. So The Fiesta Bowl also would "We can seat 82,000 people, we're kind of aggressive, too.
:; Parent's Weekend? : 
be willing to increaase its and we could provide 20,000 We sweetened the pot a couple : Applications available in the . : payout to put on a game for the seats for each team--possibly years ago." 
: Office of Student Activities, 3rd : National Championship, more," McCandless explained. The Fiesta Bowl increased
• Shover said. "And we feel we've done a its payoff and moved to prime
• Floor LaFortune. :
• • "Our payoff is actually great job on entertainment for time in 1986, when No.2 Penn : Due i\)ovember 7th, 1988 by Spm : higher than the reported $2.5 the players. You ask the State beat then top-ranked•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• million," he said. "We're players from LSU last year and Miami to claim the National 

THEOLOGY 287: "World Religions and 
Catholicism" was inadvertently left otT the checkmarked list for the spring Semester 1989. It is checkmarked; enrollment only 
through the Theology Department. 

S.U.B. & THEODORE'S PRESENT: A COMEDY JAM 
HOSTED BY KEVIN MATTHEWS 
THE LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ IN CHICAGO FEATURING ED FIALA as seen on the Tonight show and HBO with special guest 
Anthony Griffin 


9:00PM Thurs., Nov. 10 at THEODORE'S FREE ADMISSION WI NDSMC ID 

L__ --­
they'll all tell you about the Championship. great time they had in Jackson­ville." Still In the game: Others 
So while Notre Dame and scouting the Notre Dame-Rice West Virginia battle to stay in game Saturday included the the National Championship Orange, Citrus, Sugar and Cot­hunt, the Gator and Fiesta ton Bowls. 
Bowls are waging a battle of "We're still in the running," 
their own over the site of a pos­said Jim Barker of the Orange sible Mountaineer-Irish show­Bowl, which hosts the Big Eight down if the teams remain un­champion in addition to an at­beaten. large team. "We have a great . 
But neither bowl wants to relationship with the Notre turn the situation into a bidding Dame people and we think a war. matchup against Oklahoma or 
"We'll extend our invitation Nebraska would be a big at­to Notre Dame at the proper traction that could decide the time, and I'm confident that National Championship." everything will be handled properly," McCandless said. None of the bowl representa­"I honestly don't think it will tives at Saturday's game were come down to a bidding war." scouting Rice. 

T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS, WHO•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
DENNYS, 1'2 MILE NORTH OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS OFFERING A"I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" 
T·SHIRT GIVE fJ.WAY. 
FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO OENNYS WE ARE OPEN 24 HAS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
page 14 The Observer Monday, November 7, 1988 
Waitz wins another NY Marathon 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Steve Jones 
of Wales won the New York 
City Marathon on Sunday, 
redeeming himself after 
three years of sub-par 
marathons, and Grete Waitz 
of Norway led all the way in 
becoming the fastest wo­
men's finisher for a record 
ninth time. 
Jones, 33, in his New York marathon debut, took the lead near the 12.4-mile mark, was caught briefly at 15 miles by Salvatore Bettiol of Italy, then moments later took command, completing the 26-mile 385-yard course in 2 hours, 8 minutes, 20 seconds. 
Waitz, 35, who never has lost a New York City Marat­hon that she's finished, was clocked in 2:28:06 in beating 1984 Olympic gold medalist Joan Benoit Samuelson. 
Two Dodgers leave for free agency 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Two weeks after winning the World Series, they're breaking up the Dodgers. 
Steve Sax and Mike Mar­shall, both new free agents, say they will leave Los Angeles after letting the Dodgers' self­imposed Friday midnight deadline pass without signing contracts. 
Kemp leaves Kentucky 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. --Shawn Kemp, a 6-foot-11 center who has been embroiled in contro­versy since arriving at the Uni­versity of Kentucky this fall, has withdrawn from school, it was reported Saturday. 
WKYT-TV in Lexington quoted UK athletic director Cliff Hagan as saying it was his understanding that Kemp, who was ineligible to play basket­ball this season, had left the university. 
Rep. Pat Bauer 


~--< 
'/,;
, 
\ • 
The Observer I ScoH McCann The Notre Dame hockey team took advantage of many scoring and a road tie with Michigan-Dearborn over the weekend. Steve opportunities such as the one shown above to earn a home win Megargee details the action below. 
Improved ND hockey wins, ties with Dearborn 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Irish hockey coach Ric Schafer might not have been happy about his team's early­season play, but he was all smiles with Notre Dame's weekend performance. 
The Irish downed Michigan­Dearborn 4-1 Friday night at the Joyce ACC, then tied the Wolves 3-3 Saturday at Dear­born. 
"It was a very good weekend for us," said Schafer. "There were some very encouraging signs." 
Notre Dame, 3-4-1, rallied from a sluggish first period before 1790 fans Friday to cruise past the Wolves in what was expected to be a close con­test between two evenly matched teams. 
Irish wing Michael Curry's power play goal opened the scoring with 20 seconds left in the first period. Curry took a behind-the-net pass from Bob Bilton and beat Dearborn goalie Dave Church from around the left side of the 

crease. Bobby Herber also was 
credited with an assist. 

Tim Kuehl extended the lead to 2-0 at 3:59 of the second per­iod when he nailed a slap shot from behind the right circle after receiving a pass from linemate David Bankoske. Kuehl's goal, giving him the team lead with four on the season, also came on the power play. 
Dearborn answered that just 17 seconds later on a goal by Joe Burton. But that was to be the Wolves' only goal of the evening. "I didn't know if we'd see any games like that, only giving up 
one goal," said Schafer. "We didn't give them any real . scoring opportunities, and that was the difference. We blocked 
a lot of shots ; thank goodness that's in our bag of tricks." . 
Senior co-captain Brian Mqntgomery gave the Irish in­surance at 13: 21 of the second period with his first goal of the season. The goal, from the left side of the crease, came on as­sists from Curry and Rob Bankoske. 

Herber ended the scoring in spectacular fashion with a breakaway goal at 8:49 of the final period. The senior from Edina, Minn., received an as­sist from Bruce Guay. 
Irish goalie Lance Madson recorded 21 saves. Church had 22 saves for Dearborn. 
"I'm embarrassed, I think the whole team's embar­rassed," said Dearborn coach Tom Anastos. "Not taking anything away from Notre Dame, we embarrassed our­selves tonight. The two teams played giveaway early in the game, but Notre Dame played strong second and third peri­ods, and we never woke up." 
Anastos probably was con­siderably prouder with his team's performance at home 
but his Wolves could not prevent a late Irish rally. 
Dearborn led 3-1 when Notre Dame scored with just four minutes remaining in regula­tion. Schafer pulled Madson in the closing moments to get an extra attacker on the ice, and the Irish responded with a tying goal to send the game into over­time. 
Neither team managed to score in the 10-minute session of sudden death overtime, and the game ended in a 3-3 tie. Schafer was extremely pleased with his team's effort. 
"It was a classic collegiate hockey game between two evenly matched teams," said Schafer. "The first period was the best 20 minutes of hockey we've played this year. The second period, we had to kill off a few penalties. Dearborn played exceptionally well in the second and third " 
-----------------------------,
One Month Free Rent 
N.D. APT 
234-6647 RENT IN NOV. AND GET ONE MONTH FREE 
Ideal location walking distance to school Furnished 2-bedroom 

OMICRON DELTA EPSILON
Re-Elect 

CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO A
State Representative 

PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 
B. Patrick 
BAUER 
N.D. Graduate 

FORUM 
Democratic Fiscal 

ON NOVEMBER 7TH IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE AT 7:00 P.M.
Leader. PROFESSORS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS 
James Rakowski
.. 

David Betson Kenneth Jameson 
Rep. Bauer is a strong 
supporter of student grants, 

WILL ACTIVELY DISCUSS THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE'S
loans and scholarships. 

ECONOMIC POLICIES
Vote Nov. 8th 

A RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW Paid for Pat Bauer Re-election Committee. 
Monday, November 7, 1988 The Observer page 15
.. 

CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
4:30p.m. Reilly Chemistry Lecture· "New Frontiers for 'Too­Fast-To-Measure' Reactions in Solution by Use of the Pulsed­Accelerated-Flow Method," by Prof. D. Marjerum, Purdue, Room 123 Nieuwland. · 
4:45 p.m. History Dept. Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture "I, Too, Sing America? Afro-Americans, Cultural Identity, and the 1960's," by Prof. W. Martin, University of Virginia, 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
6:00p.m. Intermediate Ballroom Dance Club meeting, Stepan Center. 
6:30 p.m. Career & Placement Services presents "Focus on Your Career," by Jeff Rice and Marilyn Bury, Foster Room, LaFortune. 
7:00 
p.m. Advanced Ballroom Dance Club meeting, Stepan Center. 

7:00 
p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Imitation of Life," Annenberg Auditorium. 


7:30 p.m. Call to Peacemaking Lecture "Keeping the Peace and Protecting National Secturity Without Nuclear Weap­ons," by Prof. R. Johnasen, CSC. 
8:00p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for seniors interested in careers with Kidder Peabody and Company, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
9:15 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Shanghai Express," Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Law School Grill Baked Pork Chops 
Fried Chicken French Dip Sandwich 
Pasta Primavera Cheese Tortellini 
Short Ribs Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
6Ve55 WHfiT.~/ 
H6KNOW5 1'/6'/(6 VfJWN NfN€rY Pl7!~ IN 71f€ f'OU.5... 50 H€~ OFF€1?61? 
wJIJIN 1!CKerfiJK 
II MVCH­
N~ 8CJCl5T.~ 
/ 

Buzz Mcflatop 

ACROSS 32 Courage 54 Fritter away 
35 Preposterous 57 Eric of football fame
1 Untidy person 
5 Lessen· 38 Male parent 63 Performs
1 o Beer ingredients 40Arose 14 "Just in--," 64 Revere
41 Also 1956 song 65 Poker stake 
42 Soft drinks 15 Bundle binder 66 Andrews Sisters, 43 Mint or sage,

16 Malefic e.g.
e.g.
17 Canal or lake 67lnhibit44 Extravagance or18 Weasel relative 
abundance 68 Rods; heaters 19 Neck part 
46 Superman 69 Sea swallow 20 Floyd of boxing Christopher 10 Pulls
fame 48 Within Comb.
22 Loafed 71 Stain 
form
23 Was in session 49 Caddoan Indian 
24 Ancient times 
DOWN
50 Gamblers' paradise 1 Pace 
26--Moines 

29 Actress Miles from Okla. ·52 Globe 2 Italian monetary unit 3 Leave out ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Red root vegetables 5 Cut short aircraft flight 
6 Nocturnal 21 Having roof 36 Oscar of 54 Unit of electricity mammals overhangs basketball fame . 

55 Land measure 1 Low female 22 Wrath 37 Cut of meat 56 Agitatevoice 

25 Unit 39 "--Quam 
58 Ninth Greek 
a wee 

26 Plate Videri," N.C. 
letter 9 Do wrong motto
27 Enroll 59 Rowing team 
42 Task
10 Rickey of 28 Make points 60 Break suddenly 
baseball fame 44 Author Deighton 
30 Moreno or 
61 -the Great,11 Elliptical Hayworth 45 Furnace tenders 
German king 12 Meerschaum, 31 Overhead 47 V1ctory sign 62 Cozy place 
e.g. 33 More repulsiv:e 51 More unusual 
64 Combine in a 13 Snow vehicle 34 Expunge 53 Boasts sum 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Michael F. Muldoon 


• i 
"Yeah, Sylvia . : . my set too ... and in the middle of l 'Laverne and Shirley.'" 
Wednesday Nay 9· Debate the Issues Yehuda Kovacs, an Israeli student in the MBA program Edna Hidekell, Israeli International Peace Studies Scholar 
Zougbi Zougbi, a Palestinian in Peace Studies Jamal Abn-A.ttiyeh, Palestinian International .. Peace Studies Scholar Theodore's 7pm 
Thursda~ov 10· Fjrgsjde (bat sponsored by:Prof.Matta will talk on Lebanon 
International Student Lounge, 4:30pm 
.·•. 
:·: .·

Friday Nay 11· Mjdd!e Eastern Dinner 
:·:·: 
. ..
Oub 23, 6-8:30 pm, $5 . 
.;: .;.;.. 

Tuesda~ November 15: Moyje & Discussion .
W~ • 
The word of Islam, Montgomery Theater, 8 pm 


.---------------------------------­
Sports
Monday, November 7, 1988 
Irish turn on heat to steam Rice 
Ismail blasts two returns for TDs 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's freshman split end Raghib Ismail is referred to as "the Rocket," partly be­cause of his 4.28 speed in the 40-yard dash and partly be­cause his actual first name is difficult to pronounce. 
In Saturday's 54-11 cooking of Rice, Ismail showed off his speed with two touchdown kick­off returns and showed the Owls that no matter how hard it is to say his name (it's pronounced Ra-GIB), it's even tougher to catch him from be­hind. 
"I thought Raghib Ismail's kickoff returns were crisp," said Irish coach Lou Holtz, who saw his team successfully defend its number-one ranking and up its record to 9-0. "He has outstanding speed and tal­ent." 

Gator Bowl upping the payoff ante to lure Irish 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
The Fiesta Bowl has a gator snapping at its heels. 
As Notre Dame continues down its road to a possible bat­tle for the National Champion­ship in January, the Gator Bowl wants the top-ranked Irish to know that such a game would not have to be played in Arizona. The Jacksonville, Fla., bowl might be willing to raise its payout from $1 million per team to more than $2.5 mil­lion if it could stage a game for the National Championship. 
"Certainly to attract a team 

I I 
f. I I I 
Ismail wouldn't take any of the credit for his pair of touch­downs Saturday. 
"I have to give credit where creditis due, and none of it goes to me," said Ismail, whose bro­ther Qadry is a freshman wide receiver for Syracuse. "The whole key to the returns was getting through the first line of blocking, and nobody got a clean shot at me. That is good blocking. I returned kickoffs in high school, but I get all my confidence from the blocking the kick return team gives me." 
The first return, which went 83 yards and was keyed by a Steve Belles block, followed a Rice 70-yard opening drive that ended with a Clint Parsons 23­yard field goal. The 3-0 Rice lead lasted all of 13 seconds. 
"He <Ismail) hit it e:ood," 
see ISMAIL, page 11 
of this caliber and a game of this caliber, we would have to raise our figure substantially," said Tom McCandless, past president and chairman of the Gator Bowl selection commit­tee, during Notre Dame's 54-11 thrashing of Rice on Saturday. 
Both the Gator Bowl and Fiesta Bowl representatives said they are interested in lining up a game between the No. 1-ranked Irish and No. 4 West Virginia, both 9-0 with two games remaining in the regu­lar season. Official bids are ex­tended Sunday, Nov.19, the day Notre Dame faces Penn State 

Irish  hockey  gets  win,  Inside Sports tie with M-D ............. ~ .............................. page  14  
•  Swimmers  fall  to  TCU...............................................................page  11  
College  football  roundup.........................................................page  12  
Pro  football  results.................................................................page  13  

downs In the 54-11 Notre Dame win. Blocking for Johnson Is Mike Heldt. 


~ 
"" 

.;¥' 
"Rocket" Ismail takes off down the sidelines on the first of his two kickoff returns for touchdown In Saturday's game against Rice University. Steve Belles (foreground) made the key block that sent Ismail Into the endzone to give the Irish a 6-3 lead. 
in the last Irish home game of the year. 
But the Gator Bowl cannot of­fer network television expo­sure, and that could prove to be the drawback that sends Notre Dame west. ESPN has broadcasting rights to the season's only Jan. 1 bowl game, which is scheduled to begin at Sp.m. 
The other major bowls, in­cluding the NBC-televised Fiesta Bowl, will be played Jan. 2. 
"Cable television has come on strong the last few years, and we see the date as an as­set," McCandless defended. 
. _•_.,
,.__ 
.. 

"We are the only game on at that time, so you're not com­peting with anyone else. Anyone who wants to see the game is going to find a way to watch it." 
ESPN would provide some of the extra payoff money for the Gator Bowl. The city of Jack­sonville and Mazda, which sponsors the Gator Bowl, also would contribute. 
But Fiesta Bowl representa­tive Bill Shover still likes his bowl's chances of hosting Notre Dame on Jan. 2. When asked whether ESPN coverage is a 
see BOWLS, page 13 
Irish continue to win, beat Michigan in three 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 
The Michigan Wolverines came into the JACC Saturday night trying to get out of the rain and the cold. But the Notre Dame women's volleyball team greeted them with a storm inside as well--a man­made one--shaking down the thunder before Michigan could get its game going. 
It took the Irish just 53 
minutes to methodically man­handle Michigan, beating the Wolverines in three games, 15­5, 15-6 and 15-5. 
The Irish started sluggishly in the first game, but they were able to steadily score behind the armswing of senior middle blocker Mary Kay Waller once they got their offense into gear. 
Michigan grabbed a small lead early in the game, leading 4-1, before Notre Dame took control of the net offensively and consistently picked up the Wolverine attack defensively to prevent them from mounting a comeback. 
The second game featured much of the same for the Irish, as the frontline pounded away at the Wolverine defense. Seniors Zanette Bennett and Maureen continued their strong play from the first game, as did sophomore Tracey Shelton. 
The game stayed tight until the Irish broke a 6-6 tie with a varied attack of soft, offspeed shots into the seams of Mic­higan's defense and powerful kills that found the floor or skipped off the bodies of their opponents . 
Notre Dame controlled the third game as well, as they took an 8-0 lead and never looked back. 
Sophomores Amy White and Rachel Hall and freshman Katie Kavanaugh came into the game to continue the Irish dominance that forced the Wol­verines to record a negative hitting percentage for the second straight game. 
Waller led the Irish offensive assault with nine kills for an impressive .642 hitting percentage and added a team­high six digs . 
Bennett contributed seven kills and a team-high six total 
see IRISH, page 12 
page 16 
ND soccer wins MCC tournament 
Special to The Observer 
FENTON, Mo. -The Notre 
Dame men's soccer team upset 
third-ranked Saint Louis Uni­
versity 2-0 Sunday at the St. 
Louis Soccer Park to win the 
Midwestern Collegiate Confer­
ence Tournament, virtually as­
suring the team of a bid to the 
NCAA Tournament this week. 
Irish coach Dennis Grace 
was named the MCC Coach of 
the Year, and forward Randy 
Morris was chosen the MCC 
Player of the Year. Morris and 
midfielders Joe Sternberg and 
John Guignon were named to 
the All-MCC team. 
The Irish got to the finals by destroying Detroit 6-0 Friday and beating fourth-ranked Evansville 2-0 Saturday. 
With their performance over the past two weeks, the Irish, 17-3-2, should be one of 24 teams listed. when the NCAA an­nounces the bids this morning. 
In the upset victory over the Billikens, Sternberg put the Irish in front at 14: 12 with a header off a free kick by sweeper Mike Drury. Midfielder Mitch Kern made it 2-0 at 35:04 with a shot from 17 yards out. 
Danny Lyons had a brilliant game in goal, recording nine saves in earning his third shutout of the weekend. 
Saturday Morris' two goals propelled the Irish to the finals with an upset win over Evansville, the top-ranked team in the Great Lakes Region. 
Friday the Irish blew out the Titans behind forward Pat Murphy's two goals. Forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt, midfielders Steve LaVigne and Sternberg, and wingback Danny Gordon each added · goals. 


