
B-o-r-1-n-g
IACCENT: Sports collection Partly sunny today with a high in the upper 30s. Mostly cloudy tonight and tomorrow with a 20 percent chance for light
IVIEWPOINT: On Dan, Tom and Peter 
snow. Low in the upper 20s. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 93 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
,."/·~Surveys estimate cheating 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR 
Staff Reporter 
Although surveys estimate that as many as 66 percent of the students at some univer­sities cheat on exams, cheating is much less a problem at Notre Dame, according to faculty members. 
"Our faculty doesn't per­ceive (cheating) as a big prob­lem," said Jerry Marley, assis­tant dean of the College of Engineering. He said the fac­ulty has "been in a mode of at­tempting to conduct exams that limit the opportunity to cheat." 
"Cheating is not at all a big problem . . . as long as I watch 
over (the students)," said His­tory Professor Leon Bernard. 
The College of Engineering has only one or two cases a year, said James Taylor, dean 
'of the College of Engineering. 
~, 
Formal charges are filed only occasionally, he said. 
Mary Clancy, assistant pro­fessor of biological sciences, however, estimated that in a large class of 200 students, as many as 20 percent may take an exam dishonestly while less than 1 percent are caught. 
. . . . These faculty estimates con-
Freshman Art Kanerv1ko rece1ves symboll~ ashes from Father Wilfred trast those of a poll at George Borden, rector at Pangborn Hall. Kanerv1ka was among many Notre Washington University where Dame students who attended Ash Wednesday Mass, which marks the CHEAT 
· · f L t see , page 5
begmmng o en . 

Senior job prospects looking up 
Babbitt, du Pont reportedly ready to drop out of race 
Election today for SBP tickets 
interests and desires of the stu­

Viz, Boron: 
dent body" to the administra­tion. The platform the ticket is


'experience' 
running for is "very, very com­
By ERIC M. BERGAMO prehensive," Viz said. 
Senior Staff Reporter A primary goal is to get stu­
dent opinion on the feasibility 
The ticket of Steve Viz and of the honor code, he said. 
Chris Boron would bring "ex­"The honor code ultimately 
perience and diversity" to the won't work unless there is stu­
office of student body presi­dent support for it," Viz said. 
dent, according to Viz. Other goals include reinstat­
"The experience meaning, ing the student-run Faculty 
from day one of freshman year, Course Evaluations, improving 
being in the student govern­outside athletic facilities such 
ment cabinet, to being elected as the Stepan basketball 
to the student senate twice and 
see VIZ, page 6
sitting on the student senate," Viz said. Viz and Boron will face Tom 


Doyle ticket: 
Doyle and Mike Paese in a run­

off election today for the office of student body president. 'teamwork' 
Viz said he wants to be "an By ERIC M. BERGAMOactive leader" as president. 

Senior Staff Reporter 

"With an entirely new com­position of the Senate ... Tom Doyle and Mike Paese everyone on there will be new. will "work on the Iitle things" 
I really think that the person if elected student body presi­who sits at the chair of the sen­dent and vice president ate (the president) is going to Thursday, Doyle said. need some sort of experience "(We want to work on) the in central student government little practical things that . . . to set an appropriate tone make student life a little easier, 
for the senate and to serve as 
that make student life a little a pool of knowledge," Viz smoother. Things like a 24-hour noted. lounge, minority concerns ... 
Viz also cited his work with even things like toilets for tail­

the Campus Life Council, the gaters," Doyle said. senate committee for plus­Doyle and Paese were the top grades and as Junior Parents vote-getters in Tuesday's elec­
tion, capturing 1,041 votes, and 
ND£!MC ELECTIONS 
will face Steve Viz and Chris
811 .. 
Boron in today's run-off elec­

tion. Weekend Executive Coordina­Doyle said his ticket is tor as additional experience. "team-oriented" in that both 
Boron brings a "stronger so­Doyle and Paese have worked cial aspect" to the ticket together before. through her work with the soph­"This is by no means a ticket 
omore class, Viz said. brought together for strategic 
Viz said social programming reasons at all," Doyle said. is an essential part of their "It'd be safe to say that one of campaign. "Chris has had us would not be on the ballot (experience) as sophomore so­without the other." cial commissioner and Junior Doyle has government expe­
Parents Weekend sophomore rience as Grace Hall president, committee chairman," he said. while Paese has worked on stu­
Viz said he hoped the diver­dent government reports for sity of the ticket "would pres­the Board of Trustees, he said. ent the best possible represen­
see DOYLE, page 6
tation of all the diverse needs, 

Ashes to ashes 
By JIM LANG News Staff 
Seniors involved in the job­hunting process this year have a definite advantage over those who graduated in 1987, accor­ding to Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Ser­vices. 
Arnold expained that in 1987­88 "we're having a much more positive interviewing year." So far there has been a 27 percent increase in the number of in­terviews held on-campus this year. That should taper off to about a 15 percent increase by spring, said Arnold. 
Of those seniors who take ad­vantage of Career and Place­ment Services, Arnold esti­mated that approximately 50 to 60 percent successfully locate jobs in their fields. At least 80 percent of those are accounting majors. The remaining percentage is divided mainly between MBA's and finance majors. 
The primary consideration for most seniors who are nar­rowing down offers is the ac­tual job function they will per­form, said Arnold. They are most concerned about whether they will be happy in a certain position, she said. 
Another important consider­ation for many seniors is loca­tion, Arnold said. "Most people have a preference, but for some that preference is much more stronger." 
In addition, there are several other factors to be considered, such as the nature of the com­pany and compensation. For senior Mike Albertone, who recently landed an accounting job with Price-Waterhouse, compensation came first. 
''Any of the Big 8 accounting firms are similar in most ways but money," said Albertone, 
see JOBS, page 5 
crat Bruce Babbitt and Repub­

Associated Press "!think you're seeing a mean not going to run from it. I'm cratic finish and said in an in­
lican Pete du Pont, appeared George Bush," said Sen. Bob not known for running from a terview Wednesday night, "It Republican George Bush and on the verge of dropping out fl'ght."

Dole, who blamed his defeat in is very likely that I will make Democrat Michael Dukakis ex­after poor showings in Iowa the decision to exit." He sched­
ulted in their impressive New and New Hampshire. 
While most of the field uled a news conference for Hampshire primary victories worried about raising money Thursday morning. on Wednesday while the rest of With the delegate-rich pri­and gaining momentum, there Du Pont, the former Dela­the presidential field jockeyed maries just ahead in the South were others who had possibly ware governor, scheduled a for position in a campaign with­and elsewhere, there was no 
fought their last. news conference for Thursday
out clear, commanding front­danger of peace breaking out New Hampshire on distortions Former Arizona Gov. Bab­afternoon, and a source in his runners. among the remaining com­he said were spread by the vice bitt returned to Washington campaign indicated Two of the also-rans, Demo-batants. president's campaign. "I'm after his fifth-place Demo-withdrawal was likely. 

The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1988
page 2 
. 




In Brief ' 
Walter Bartholomew is in stable condition at Memorial Hospital, according to the office of administra­tive computing. Bartholomew suffered a heart attack Mon­day, the receptionist at the office said. Bartholomew, an assistant director in the office, was taken to the hospital after he complained of chest pains Monday afternoon. He is 52 years old, according to the receptionist. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Off-campus students can vote in today's run-off student body presidentlvice president elections today on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center from noon to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Great Hunger Clean-Up is recruiting workers for the clean-up in April to raise money for hunger relief while beautifying South Bend. There will be a recruitment meeting tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. Anyone interested who cannot attend should call Sean Evers for more information at 232-9112. -The Observer 
Right to Life phone-a-thon for the Women's Care Center needs volunteers to call for donations from 6 to 9 
p.m. any evening until February 25. It is being held in Room 212 Administration Building. Call John Hirschfeld for more information at 239-7735. -The Observer 
Career decision making workshop will be held 
tonight for undeclared1.mdecided sophomores at the Uni­
versity Counseling Center in Room 300 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. 
-The Observer 
Campus Bible Fellowship will hold a retreat in Auburn, Ind. February 19 and 20. Call 277-8471 for more information. -The Observer 
A Mexican lunch is being served today at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Benefits will go towards the CILA Mexico Service Program. -The Observer 
Prayer Vigil for Peace continues today in Sacred Heart Church. Hourly assignments are by residence halls and departments. The Vigil concludes tomorrow with the 
11:30 a.m. liturgy in Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer 
Iran-Contragate will be the topic of a video by the Christie Institute today at 12:30 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
F AF deadlineis February 28 for the 1988-89 school year. If you have questions or need an F AF, visit the Financial Aid Office in the Administration Building. -The Observer 
CILA participantsneed to stop by LaFortune Student Center Friday between noon and 5 p.m. to talk to Dan or Mike. Call Mike at 1049 with any questions. -The Observer 
Sophomore class roadtrip to Dayton sign-ups have been extended. Sign up today from 2:30 to 4 p.m. and Friday from 1 to 2:30p.m. in the class office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Student Art Forum will meet today at 5:15p.m. at the Snite Museum. Pizza will be served and members are asked to bring either t-shirts or money. -The Observer 
Hall Presidents who have not submitted the name of their Food Advisory Council representative to chairman Maureen McDonnell are asked to do so as soon as possible by calling 283-2992 or submitting names through campus mail to 647 Pasquerilla East. -The Observer 
Third World Development will be the topic of WVFI-AM 640's Campus Perspectives talkshow from 10 to 11 tonight. Host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. 

-~e-Obse.~~er-­

--=-l.-=I-1 --. . .&.-=Y~ --­
Design Editor ...... Bernadette Shilts Sports Copy Editor...... . Steve Megargee 
Design Assistant .............. Michelle Dall Viewpoint Copy Editor . Brian Broderick 
Typesetters ....................... Mike BucMe Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi 
....................... . ...... Smed Laboe Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger 
Photographer ................ John Studebaker 
News Editor.... . ........ Scott Bearby Typists ............................... Lynn Strand 
Copy Editors ....................... Greg Lucas .............................................. Jen Conlon 
...................................... Kendra Morrill ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee 
TM Olleener (USPS 599 2-<1000) is published Monday through Friday except 

durin& exam and vacation periods. TM O'*"er is published by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tlae Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. 
TM Olleener is a member of TM Aaodaled Pnu. All reproduction rights arc 
reserved. 




The Observer I John Studebaker 

Warm thoughts 
John McDevitt, of Pangborn, takes time out to escape the cold South Bend climate by scanning the Sports Illustrated swimsuit edition, ·shot in warm Thailand. 


FRI. FEB. 

26th 
illllll'r.i 8:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: $10.00 $8.50 
$2.00 DISCOUNT: NOOMC STUDENTS! FACULTY/STAFF 

The Observer page 3 
Delay sought in Beauchamp trial 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. -A judge will decide Monday whether to grant a motion to delay the trial of an Ohio man charged in the slayings of the parents of Notre Dame Executive Vice President William Beauchamp. 
Defense attorney Cyril Hall asked for the murder trial of Michael Root, 30, to be delayed for 10 days after the prosecution asked that an independent expert be al­lowed to examine new evidence that could physi­cally link Root to the vic­tims. 

The Youngstown man is charged with first-degree murder and first-degree cri­minal sexual conduct in the Sept. 8 slaying of Marion and Edward Beauchamp in their home in Ferndale, a Detroit suburb. 
Oakland County Circuit Judge Robert Anderson was to rule on the motion Wed­nesday, but postponed the decision until Monday mor­ning, according to a court administrator. No reason was given for the adjourn­ment. 


Leave taken by Fisher rector 
By MICHELLE LAROSE 
News Staff 
Brother Edward Luther, Fis­her Hall rector, left Fisher Wednesday to enter a one-week alcoholism assessment pro­gram, according to Father David Tyson, vice president for Student Affairs. 
The program will determine if Luther needs long-term treatment, Tyson said. 
Fisher Hall residents learned of Luther's leaving Wednesday 
night  at  a  mandatory  hall  
meeting called by Tyson.  
Assistant  Rector  Joe  Ross  

will serve as acting rector, Tys~m said. 
"Brother Ed is still the rector of Fisher Hall and will be on his return to campus," Tyson said. 
Luther entered a program at Guest House, a treatment cen­ter for alcoholic priests and brothers in Michigan, after an "intervention" Wednesday at 11 a.m. by concerned members of his religious order. 
"The intervention is basi­cally a meeting that could be between family members or friends and the individual that expresses concern in a positive light, but also focuses on any problem pattern that may have developed'', said Tyson after the hall meeting. 
Father Steve Newton, a Holy Cross associate who has had extensive experience in alcohol counseling, said Luther would undergo physical, psychologi­cal and emotional tests at Guest House to determine if al­coholism is present. 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
Newton said at the end of the week, based on the diagnosis, Luther could enter a three­month, long-term treatment program. He said the treat­ment program for alcoholic priests and brothers is longer than regular programs, be­cause many of them come in with a lot of "excess baggage" that prohibits them from seeing their alcoholism as a "disease, rather than a moral or ethical fault." 
Tyson also said the hall would be informed of the diag­nosis. 
Tyson said there had been concern for some time on the part of other members of the religious community, but also said· they were "very optimis­tic" about the treatment out­come. 
Luther is in his second year as rector of Fisher. He was pre­viously rector of Morrissey Hall. 
A Fisher resident assistant said Luther was great to work for and he would like to see him back as soon as possible. 

ALUMNI 
..........................................
Ill .........................................
..........................................

SENIOR 
% 
1­


NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF 




BARTENDER 
FOR THE 1988-89 SCHOOL YEAR NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE PICKED UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTMTIES, THIRD FLOOR LAFORTUNE. APPLICANTS MOST BE 21 BY SEPTEMBER 1, 1988. 
DEADLINE IS MARCH 11, 1988 
----~-----------------------­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1988 
THE NCR $300,000 STAKEHOLDER ESSAY COMPEITI10N FOR STUDENTS 
THE MISSION 


ToCREATEVAWE 
At NCR, we've found that in order to create value, we must first satisfy the legitimate expectations of every person with a stake in our company. We call these people our. stakeholders, and we attempt to satisfy their expectations by promoting partnerships in which everyone is a winner. 
• 
We believe in building mutually beneficial ana enduring relationships wuh all ofour stakeholders, based on conducting business activities with integrity and respect. 

• 
We take customer satisfaction personally: we are committed to pruviding superior value in our products and services on a continuing basis. 

• 
We respect the indivzduality of each employee andfoster an environment in which empluyees' creativitY, and productivity are encouraged, recognized, valued and rewarded. 

• 
We think ofour suppliers as partners who share our goal ofachieving the highest quality standards and the most consistent level ofservice. 

• 
We are committed to being caring and supportive corporate citizens within the worldwide communities in which we operate. 

• 
We are dedicated to creating valvtJ for our shareholders and financial communities by performing in a manner that will enhance the return on their investments. 


THE CHALLENGE 
ToWIN 

'We're so committed to our mission that we're encouraging the next generation of leaders to re-examine America's business values. We're doing this by holding the NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition which all full-time undergraduate and graduate college or university students may enter. Entries should explore the topic: "Creating Value. for All Stakeholders in Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations." 
The student chosen as the first place winner will be awarded $50,000 cash. Plus; the entrant's school will reLeive $100,000 in NCR data processing equipment. The.second place winner will receive $15,000 cash and the entrant's school will receive $35,000 in equipment. One hundred $1;000 awards of merit will be given to chosen participants. In addition, selected award-winning entrants will be invited to attend the first NCR International Symposium on Stakeholders to be held June 9 & 10, 1988, in Dayton, Ohio. 
THERULES 
1) The NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition is open to any full-time undergraduate or graduate student auending an accredited college or university in the United States or its territories. 
2) Entries must be original, unpublished work on the topic: "Creating Value for All Stakeholders in Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations." Essays must not exceed 3,000 words. Areas of discussion may include, but are not limited to: Ethics, Corporate Governance, Strategic Manqement, Social Responsibility, or Managing Change as these topics relate to managing for stakeholders. 
3) Entries must be l)'ped, double-spaced on 8W x I I' bond paper, one side only. A separate cover sheet should list the entrant's name, school, home address and title of the essay. Subsequent pages should be numbered sequentially and include the essay mle in the upper right margin. Winners will be required to produce proof of current full-time college or univenirv 
enrollment. . 
4) All entries must be postmarked by March 31 , 1988, and received by Aprill5, 1988 to be eligible for consideration. Submit entries to: NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition, NCRCorporation, Stakrholde· Relations Division. Dayton, Ohio 45479. NCR is not responsible for, and will not consider, late, lost or misdirected entries. · 
5) In the event any prize winner is a minot, the cash award will be made to his/her parent or guardian. 
6) Awards to individuals will be reported as income on IRS Form 1099. All taxes are the responsibilirv of the recipients. · 
7) Award winners will be required to sign publici!\· releases and affidavits of eligibility and. complia~ce with all rules governing the competition. Failure to return executed affidavits and releases within 15 da\"s of receipt will cause the award to be null and void. · 
8) All entries become the property of NCR and will not be returned. 
9) By participating in this competition entrants agree to these rules and the decisions of the judges which shall be final in all respects, and further agree to the use of their names, likenesses and entries for NCR advertising_ and publicity purposes without any further 
compensauon. 
~tate and territorial judges w\11 consist of panels that mclude NCR stake.holders. Final selections will he madl· from state and terrnory winners by a national panel of Judges. 
Ifclarification is necessar:·, call (513) 445-1667 8 • 
EST. • am-~pm 
Award winners will be notified on or about M 
"" b · 1· ffi · ay • 191111 
•O o tam a 1st o nahsts, send a self-addressed , · envelope to: • stampt-d 
NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition 
NCR Corporation Stakeholder Relations Division 1700 South Patterson Boulevard Dayton, Ohio 45479 
NCR's Mission: CreateValue for Our Stakeholders 

Thursday, February 18, 1988 The Observer 
page 5 


Oscar nominees vie for top honors 
Associated Press 11 nominations, but none for the director. 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. ­"The Last Emperor," a Two-time winners Jack Nic­panoramic drama of modern holson and Meryl Streep wereChina, scored top honors with nominated as best actor andnine nominations Wednesday actress for their roles asin an Oscar race that included Depression-era low-lifers inCher, Robin Williams and Mi­"Ironweed."
chael Douglas but overlooked Best actor nominees also in­directors Steven Spielberg and cluded Douglas for "WallJames Brooks. 
Street"· Hurt, "Broadcast "Broadcast News," the News".' Marcello Mastroianni, 
comedy-romance set in a tele­"Dark ' Eyes"; Williams,vision news bureau, followed "Good Morning, Vietnam." with seven nominations includ­ing those for stars William Hurt, Holly Hunter and Albert Douglas learned the news 
Brooks. James Brooks was watching television at his New nominated as producer and York apartment. He said, "It writer, but surprisingly, not as made me not only proud of our 
film 'Wall Street,' but itdirector. 

reminded me of what a won­Spielberg's "Empire of the derful part Oliver Stone 
Sun" tied "Fatal Attraction" created." and "Moonstruck" with six Joining Streep on the best nominations, but Spielberg was actress list: Cher, not mentioned for his direction, "Moonstruck"; Glenn Close, 
nor did the film make the best "Fatal Attraction"; Hunter, movie list. In 1985, Spielberg's "Broadcast News;" and Sally"The Color Purple" collected Kirkland, "Anna." 
.lfll!.!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ASSISTANT VIEWPOINT EDITORS 
COPY EDITORS 
Brief resume and personal statement due Monday by 5 PM in the Observer Office 
Questions may be addressed to Matt Slaughter 283-3489 

Loyola University were Many professors said they believed to have cheated. supported the honor system but 
Cheat 

have been unable to implement it in their classes because stu­continued from page 1 indicate Notre Dame students dents have voted against it. 
don't cheat as much as those 

timated to have cheated at one at other colleges, the honor time or another. code will "make people more Physics Professor Emerson 
A similar poll at the Univer­sensitive to the idea of Funk said he was unable to use sity of Illinois, estimated 40 honesty," said Michael Loux, the honor system in class be­percent cheated while 25 per­dean of the College of Arts and cause his students had voted it 
cent at both Penn State and Letters. down by a 2 to 1 margin. 
Jobs 

continued from page 1 
"so money was the decicing factor." He said he interviewed with six firms and recieved two job offers. 
Some seniors are not so for­tunate, though, and are willing to accept any job available. One senior 
said he has interviewed with 15 campus interviewing is over­companies and has not rated," one senior said. recieved an offer. A small percentage of 
He said that most engineer­seniors search for jobs in the ing majors are experiencing non-profit sector. Despite the the same types of problems he relative lack of interest in this is and that there is a wide gap field, Career and Placement 
between the accounting and Services has on file informa­engineering job markets. "If tion about more than 300 social 
an accounting major has a high justice, peace and communitygrade point and presents him­organizations, Arnold said. self well, he's almost guaranteed an accounting job Finally, there are those stu­with the Big 8,'' said the senior. dents who shy away from the 
Many seniors said they job market altogether. About 
believe they will fare better on 30 percent of the graduatingtheir own, and choose to con­seniors will enroll in various 
duct their job searches without graduate professional
or 

university help. "They do a fan­schools, according to univer­tastic job, but I think college sity statistics. 
~---NI)-A-VE-APTS.--1 
I 
1  Early Bird Special  j  
1  Now renting for Fall  I  
1 2 Bedrooms completely furnished I Sign up before break and Call  1I  

receive a 10% discount 234-6647 
l!~!::!.~-~_P.i~!!:!£~ Security_~,!n..;.?L 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 
(includes $.50 for Building lmorovement Fund) TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE NIGHlWINDS, WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES. AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: 284-9190 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1988 
Well, it's definitely not the Hula Bowl. Some Dillonites joyable aspects of winter in South Bend, on South play a game of snow football, one of the more en-Quad. 
u.s. Marine taken 
Associated Press President Reagan was at his California ranch when he was 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan informed of the incident and administration warned kidnap­told reporters as he left for pers in Lebanon against har­Washington he was "trying to ming an American Marine ab­learn more about it." ducted Wednesday and said However, a White House 
U.S. personnel will continue spokesman, Roman Popadiuk, working for the United Nations said of Lt. Col. William Hig­observer group in the Middle gins, "we hold the kidnappers East. responsible for his safety." 
Reagan budget sent for Congress debate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan on Wednesday prepared to send his fiscal1989 spending plan to Congress and launch the last and likely least contentious budget debate of his presidency. 
The $1.1 trillion fiscal blueprint being unveiled Thursday was expected to reprise Reagan's oft-rejected requests for cutting domestic programs, with some new proposals for transferring gov­ernment functions including parks management and per­haps Amtrak railroad service to private industry. 
But the plan also was being crafted to comply with the spending agreement reached last fall in the budget "sum­mit" between Reagan and con­gressional leaders. 
Since the budget summit agreement spells out overall spending and tax levels, includ­ing allocations for the military, domestic programs and foreign aid, this year's battles 
Viz 
continued from page 1 courts, improving campus parking and working with th~ hall councils to produce campus-wide dorm sponsored events. 
"(We want) to get more dorms involved in social pro­gramming on campus," he said. 

··································~··········· 
--~'=-it 
!lib 

"Dl5MAS
,. 
f)ouse 
of 
• MiGtfihfll\ 
"A community of support, reconciliation, and adjustment, the 
Dismas House of Mlchlana offers a unique opportunity for Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training 
experience with former prisoners. Together an environment of 
trust, friendship, and hope can be built to provide the confidence 
and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and 
Integral member." 
Tim Dempsey, Resident of Dismas House 
were expected to focus on the details rather than the thrust of the budget priorities. 
The pact should help smooth the budget's path through Congress, since the balance be­tween domestic and military spending totals is annually one of the most difficult. 
ln addition, Democratic leaders have pledged to speed the process and avoid packing all spending into a single, mas­sive bill as they did in a $600 billion mea!O;ure last year. 
When Reagan pledged in his State of the Union address never again to sign such legis­lation, "he was preaching to a choir already converted," House Majority Leader Thomas Foley, D-Wash., said this week. 
White House estimates show his plan, under the administra­tion's own assumptions of how the economy will fare next year, would produce a deficit of $143 billion in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. 
Viz said he has learned as a senator to approach the Admin­istration with "mutual respect." 
"It's going into an adminis­trator's office without a preconceived notion of an ad­versarial relationship," he explained, ". . . but you also have to realize that the ad­minstrator is the administrator and their role is to be in charge." 
WANTED: 
STUDENTS TO LIVE WITH FORMER PRISONERS 
* * * 
Apply to Kathy Royer (7862) at Center for Social Concerns 
* * * 
APPLICATION DEADLINE February 29 

by kidnappers in Lebanon 
Higgins, head of the 75-man, multinational observer group attached to the U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon, was kid­napped in southernmost Lebanon after returning from talks with Shiite Moslem militia officials. 
He is one of 36 members of the U.N. Truce Supervisory Or­ganization, which observes United Nations efforts to keep the peace along Israel's volatile borders with its Arab neighbors. 
The observer team has been operating since 1949 and fewer than 20 of the American mem­bers are assigned to duties along the Lebanese-Israeli bor­der, the State Department said. 
Department Charles Redman, asked if the United States will continue taking part in the observer mis­sions, replied: "Yes." 
Before Higgins' disap­pearance, eight Americans were being held captive .in 
· Lebanon, which has been declared off-limits to Ameri­can citizens by the State Depar­tment. 
The Observer 1 John Studebaker 

Doyle 
continued from page 1 
Doyle said he wants to "ex­pand the purview of student government to larger political and social issues." 
Since Notre Dame is the "premier Catholic university in the country, " Doyle said he thinks the University should be "on the cutting edge" of those issues. 
"What that means is that we (student government) bring in intellectuals who are at the top of their fields, politicians and candidates and get those people to speak on our campus, 
HELLO MIDWAY. CAN VOU 6ET US OUT OF HERE?
/ . 
Low fares are anything but a passing fad on the Midway Connection~ Catch the ConnectionsM to convenient Chicago Midway Airport or beyond. You'll find quick, hassle-free connections to any of our 28 other destinations. So for flights with lower fares, and more leg room than you see here, call1-800-621-5700, or call your travel agent. 
Midwa Connection® 
~~~=-~~----------------------------------~ 
Midway Airlines• serves AUanta, Boston, Chicago (Midway), Cleveland, Columbus, Dallas/Ft. Worth, Denver, Des Moines, Detroit, Ft Lauderdale, Ft Myers, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Las Vegas, Miami, Minneapolis/St Paul, Nassau, New Orleans, New York (La Guardia), Omaha, Orlando, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Phoenix, St Croix, V.I., StThomas, V.I., Tampa, Washington, D.C. (National), and West Palm Beach. 
The Midway Connection• serves Benton Harbor, Bloomington/Normal, Champaign/Urbana, Dubuque, Elkhart, Grand Rapids, Green Bay, Indianapolis, Madison, Muskegon, Peoria, South Bend, Springfield, IL, Traverse City, Waterloo. © 1988 Midway Airtines, Inc . 
get people to ask them ques­tions on campus," Doyle said. 
"The Georgetowns, the Ivies (colleges) and the Stanfords, look to us to see what's going on at Notre Dame," he added. 
Communication between stu­dent government and the stu­dents is also a priority, Doyle said. 
"What we would like to do is improve communications and then, hopefully, from that im­prove the image of student gov­ernment," Doyle noted. 
Doyle said he would like to have a weekly column in the student publications to inform the students of what is going on. 
Students could also write in to the column, he added. 
"Student government sort of gets lost a little bit ... with the student body because people don't know what is going on," said Doyle. 
The student publications are read by most of the students, he noted. 
"If people just knew what was going on in student govern­ment then they'd be more likely to get involved," he said. 
. Doyle said he hopes to im­prove relations with University administrators by having them sit in on student government meetings as observers. 



Thursday, February 18, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Sophomore Lit Fest to begin next week 
Special to Observer 
The 1988 Sophomore Literary Festival gets un­derway next week at the University of Notre Dame. 
Novelist Josef Skvorecky fled his native Czechos­lovakia after the Soviet in­vasion of that country in 1968, moving to Canada, where he is a professor of English and film at the Uni­versity of Toronto. His books include "Miss Silver's Past" (some 80,000 copies of which were officially destroyed two years after the Soviet in­vasion), "The Cowards," and "The Engineer of Human Souls." Skvorecky will give a reading from his work Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
Marilyn Krysl is author of five books of stories and poetry, including, most recently "Mozart, Westmoreland and Me." Krysl will give a reading Monday, Feb. 22 at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
"When the Revolution Real­
ly." 
While serving a term for 
armed robbery in the In­
diana State Prison, Korean 
War veteran Knight, a Mis­
sissippi native, began his 
poetry career. His most 
recently published collec­
tion of poems, "The Essen­
tal Etheridge Knight," won 
a 1987 American Book 
Award. 
A native of South Bend and a 1952 alumnus of Notre Dame, John Engels is author of twelve books of poetry, in­cluding "Signals From the Safety Coffin," "Blood Mountain," and "Cardinals in the Ice Age." He is a trout fisherman and an American folk music enthusiast. En­gels will read from his work Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Don Hendrie, Jr., author of "Scribble, Scribble, Scribble," "A Survey of the Atlantic Beaches," and "Boomkitchwatt," won a Pushcart Pr"ize in 1979. His book, "A Criminal Journey," is forthcoming in 1989. Hendrie will read from his work next Thursday at 8 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. 
Paule Marshall, whose first novel, "Brown Girl, Brown Stones," was called by a New York Times reviewer "the best novel to be written by an American black woman.'' 

College Briefs 
Helping Mike Dukakis can get you college credit at the University of Minnesota. The po­litical science department gives credit for campaign experience -so long as the student has made arrangements with a professor to have the work count as an internship. -The National On-Campus Report 
A thief took the T.V. from a group of law students at Kentucky last month. A thief entered a student lounge where several law students were watching the program, "Superior Court." The man said he was with the company that had rented the television to the school, and that he needed it back. The students asked him to wait until the show was over, so he watched the rest of the program with them. Some of the students then helped the thief take the television from a wall rack. 
-The National On-Campus Report 
Third World cuisine was served at Santa Clara University recently, as students turned in their evening meals in order to become more aware of world hunger. The first day, couscous, an African grain, was served. The next day, tortillas and beans replaced the reg­ular fare, and on the final day students ate rice. -The National On-Campus Report 
Trying to enroll in an entry-level psychology class can leave California-Santa Cruz students stressed and depressed. One of every 10 students on the campus has declared an intention to pursue a psychology major. That means there is a student-to-professor ratio of 40 to one. -The National On-Campus 
Repo'!'t 

Almost all of the 15,000 condoms that University of Pennsylvania Health Center planned to distribute to students are still avail­able. Students are hesitant to use the condoms, because the condoms don't carry a known brand name. Officials say the condoms ­labeled "Prime" -are sold under the brand name "Lifestyle," ahd are "first quality." ­
The National On-Campus Report 
College athletes who do not graduate but later decide to return to school will be eligible for scholarships under a special $9 million fund set up by the NCAA. One source of money, officials say, will be the lucrative television contract the NCAA signed for the next three national college basketball tournaments. -The National On-Campus Report 
Scholarships for gays and lesbians at the University of Toronto are now available, thanks to Gays and Lesbians of UT, a campus organization. Officials say scholarships will be for those who have been disowned by their parents or had other financial problems be­cause of their sexual orientation. -The Na­tional On-Campus Report 
On Tuesday at 8 p.m., Peter Michelson and Et­heridge Knight will give a joint reading from their works in the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. Michel­son, who taught at Notre Dame from 1965 to 1969, is author of "The Aesthetics of Pornography" as well as several books of poetry, in­cluding "The Eater," "Pacific Plainsong," and 
,........................................... 
•
•
• Do you like pizza?••• •• Come get your fill 
at Theodore's on Sunday 
only $3.00 buys as much • PIZZA as you can eat. 
Open 12-6 pm 

Tonight Open 9: 30-1: 00 DJ'S Dave Brueneil and Marty Crowe will start off the weekend with great tunes, so stop up and DANCE! 
Friday Open 9: 30-2: 00 Join us for more of the same as Ann Seifert and Tom Tisa play your favorites. Saturday Open 9:30-2:00 DJ'S Greg Harris and Rick Reuter will have you dancing all night! Sunday Special Open 12: 00-6: 00 
Pizza Pizza Pizza Pizza All you can eat---$3.00 
Obsession leads to killing 
Associated Press 

SUNNYVALE, Calif. -A four­year obsession with a co­worker's smile ended with a Silicon Valley technician blast­ing into a top-secret defense plant, killing seven people with a shotgun and wounding four, including the woman who spurned him, police said Wed­nesday . 
"I'm not crazy -I know I will die as a result of this," Robert Wade Farley, 39, told hostage negotiator Ruben Grijalva before surrendering Tuesday night, more than five hours after a fusillade announced his arrival at the ESL Inc. plant. He had been fired from his 

NO 6!

ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wint>s heers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
11'2.':i NOf\Ttt tf\ONWOOD DR. SOUTI1 .Bt:ND. IN 4fi63."> 
$36,000-a-year job there in May 
1986 for poor performance. 

"It didn't appear there was any way he could have been stopped," said police Capt. AI Scott. 
Flags flew at half-staff at the ESL complex on Wednesday, and employees appeared som­ber. Counselors were available for those who needed help . 
Grijalva said the price of sur­render was a turkey-and-ham sandwich and a soda. "He sur­rendered for a No. 26 from Togo's and a Diet Pepsi," said the Sunnyvale Public Safety Department negotiator. 
Grijalva quoted Farley as saying the attack stemmed from his obsession with en­gineer Laura Black, 26. 
"He said he was in love with 
her from the first moment he 
saw her," Grijalva told the San 
Francisco Examiner. "It was 
her smile. 
"He knew she was not at­
tracted to him, but he told her 
it wouldn't end until either she 
went out with him or he died." 
Little was known of Farley's past, Scott said. He was never married and had no children. Farley had relatives in Califor­nia, Texas and Germany and had served 11 years in the Navy, mostly shore duty, Scott said. 
The incident began at about 
2:55 p.m. PST when Farley drove up in a rented motor home at ESL, which holds mil­lions of dollars in contracts with the Department of Defense and other government agencies. 
Police later found more 
weapons, ammunition and 
cans of gasoline in the motor 
home, Scott said. 
"He had a lot of guns and a 
lot of gun knowledge -ap­
parently a lifetime hobby," 
Scott said. 
STUDENTS ARE CORD~Y I~ED TO MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION & DISCOSSION SPONSQRED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFFICE. 
February's Leader: Mr. Patrick Hannon, Topic: A Seminarian's Retrospective 
Date: Wednesday, February 24, 1988 8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College. 
For Further Information: Fr. Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C. Fr. Paul F. Doyle, C S.C. 
Vocation Directors P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, ln. 46556 Phone: (219)-239-6385 
Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, February 18, 1988 
Campaign coverage lacks substance 
You really have to admire Dan, Tom and Peter. They are really doing the best they can with such limited materi­al. You could not take your average three guys off of the street and have them turn an immensely boring elec­tion into a tedious, mind-numbing ex­ercise in futility. What is even more admirable is that these three guys get paid a lot of money for doing this. 
Brian Broderick 
r sincerely yours 
You know who they are. These three guys come on television at various times to report on how some of our fa­vorite candidates are doing in the cur­rent primary or caucus which they tell us that we should be interested in. First they make an assumption that the gen­eral public really cares that George Bush defeated Robert Dole in New Hampshire, or that the only people who voted for AI Haig were immediate fam­ily members and then they proceed to deluge us with meaningless charts, uni­nteresting percentages and generally inane analysts in order to better explain what has just happened. We get such insightful commentary telling us that George Bush has regained momentum in the race or that, with only three votes, Al Haig will probably have to leave the race. 
What is even more annoying is listen­ing to all of the political pundits the next day. This little practice becomes excruciatingly painful as all of our psuedo-analysts merely repeat what the clown on television said the night before. This "monday morning" politicking proves my theory that this whole primary-caucus system stag­nates whatever potential intellect there is out there in society. 
It is not fair to put all of the blame on our esteemed national newscasters and their team of crack(pot) analysts. We have to take a close look at the jokers who are actually seeking their party's nomination. 
It is apparent now that each party has its own version of the three wise men, or the three stooges, depending on how you look at it. As the old saying goes, "never h1,1s so little been said by so many.'' The origin of this quote prob­ably comes from any observer of a Notre Dame student body presidential race. Oh sure,. it was amusing at first, Bush and Dole's childish sniping, Gary Hart's libidinous journey through politics and Paul Simon's All-American good looks. But the novelty of it all wore off in about an hour. Now we are stuck with six men running around the country stumping to gain delegates, 


Doonesbury 
and a few other pretenders who do not realize that there are better things to do with their money than squandering it on hopeless causes. 
Now please do not accuse me of being apathetic. I honestly believe that we Americans need a good leader after eight years of incompetent bumbling. But I do not believe that any of the cur­rent crop of candidates has the capacity to be president. 
We need to find a middle ground be­tween the charismatic personality and the issue-minded technocrat. There must be someone out there in this great country of ours who can combine intel­lect with personality, who can express his ideas on issues without being as dull as golf on television. In the meantime we are stuck with Dan, Tom and Peter and their incessant ramblings on exit polling and momentum. By the way, I hear Jacques Cousteau has a fascinat­ing special on the underwater mating habits of crustaceans next primary day on PBS. Tune in. 
Brian Broderick is a senior government major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Boycott's strength lies in awareness 
Dear Editor: 
In a Feb. 9 Observer guest column, Kevin Smant opposed the recent plea for a Coca Cola boycott. Smant accuses this campus of having a one-item foreign policy agenda, namely South Mrican apartheid. He suggests that this is because nothing else catches policymakers' attention. He suggests that these efforts by local activists are futile. Wrong. These people are truly concerned with worldwide injustice and certainly one can understand that the relatively small number of activists re­quires that they concentrate their ef­forts for any impact whatsover. He cites thousands of Mghan children's hands being blown off by Soviet ''toys,'' the oppression of the Haitian people and the Vietnamese boat people. Agreed; but do these make apartheid protests meaningless? Do they make apartheid less offensive? 
I suggest that before condemning "our local activists" for their narrow­mindedness towards a chosen issue, we step aside and see the basic good of what they are trying to accomplish. We should have the insight to realize that a college professor's weeklong hunger strike against Contra aid should not be thoughtlessy rebuked with a sarcastic statement of its lack of effect on minds in Washington, but rather seen as some­one bringing attention to what he believes is right or maybe its potential effect on minds at Notre Dame and in the community. In a representative democracy such as ours, beyonci ou 
Garry. Trudeau 


@TH#!.. PEOPI.£ /A/eRE RI.INNING 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
9-ltRMAN&SQU& STAT&MtNT. 
duty to vote, it is up to the citizens to voice themselves on whatever issues they see fit. The point is not whether it directly changes minds in Washington, but that there are people telling us that they feel so strongly about these issues. 
These things are not done, as Smant charges, "just because they feel good or because slogans sound good" but to try to raise awareness in a carefree society. Mr. Smant says punishing South Mrica economically is not the an­swer; though he refrains from suggest­ing any other plausible possibilities, at least he agrees there's a problem. 
David J. Brach St. Joseph High School Notre Dame Class of 1992 February 16, 1988 

1988 Talent Show thanks all 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest appreciation and gratitude to all the performers of the 1988 Talent Show. To all the Notre Dame singers, dancers, lip-singers, dramatists, bands, emcees, "bumpers," "grinders," "pinch-and­squeezers" (however risky you may have been), you did an excellent job of presenting your talents Saturday night. 
But the show would never have been the success that it was without you, the audience. I thank those who coopera­tively supported this annual function. Just know that you are truly appreciat­ed. God Bless. 
Laurenteen Carla Morris Pasquerilla East February 15, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"The block of granite which 
was  an  obstacle  in  the  
pathway  of  the  weak  be­ 
comes  a  stepping-stone  in  

the pathway of the strong." Thomas Carlyle 
Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief .................................... Kevin Becker Bus;ness Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor... .... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor.. .. .... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor... . . .................... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... . Chri$ Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark McLaughlin Sports Editor... . ..... Dennis Corrig,:.n Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor... . . .. ... Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor .................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton 
Photo Editor.... . ....... Jim Carroll 
Founded Novembwr 3, 1988 
Editorial Board 
Accent 
Thursday, February 18, 1988 page 9 
Collection concentrates 
on all aspects of sports 
H
CHRISTINE GREGORY accent writer ow many times have you walked by the Department of Special Collections and won­dered what was there? Come on, you know where It Is. As you go Into the library from campus, you pass the Periodi­cal Room on your left and the Department of Special Collec­tions on your right. As for what's there, several collections can be found. Among them are the Rare Book Collection, the Notre Dame Collection (a his­torical record of the University), and the Sports Research Collec­tion. 
''I'm not so much a sports fan, yelling and screaming for 
my team to win at all costs, as I am a fan of sport" says Jethro Kyles, curator of the Sports Research Collection. "And as It relates to research, I'm not Into numbers and sta· tistics as much as I am into seeing the overall picture: the socio-logical factors, the aca­demic consequences In the case of collegiate sport, and the historical aspects that sur­round sports. If someone calls from any one of those fields and wants Information, I have to be able to give them that." 
Kyles describes his duties as "coordinating various sports formats Into a resource cen­ter." And that is primarily what the Collection functions as. Students writing papers, aut­hors researching books, and network employees producing programs have all tapped the collection's resources during Kyles' six years as curator. "And of course there are the fans," he says. "You meet some great people. There will be guys who come here who played for Rockne. They'll be all friendly and outgoing as can be, and then I'll show them Rock's sweater that he used to wear to practice and they'll get real quiet and just stand there looking at it." 
Despite its abundance of sports artifacts, the collection is not primarily a museum. And although many people assume it's a "mini-shrine of Notre 
Dame," the collection is not that either. "We're proud of how broad the collection is," says Kyles. "And apart from the films, about 85 percent of the collection is non-Notre Dame." 
It is the expansiveness of the collection that is so impressive, making it "undoubtedly, the best collection in the United States." While some other schools have collections, they are very regional in scope. The University of Michigan's re­sources, for example, focus on hunting. fishing. and other Mid­western sports. Notre Dame's is not like that. 
First there are programs and guides. Thousands of them. They range from the Papoose Bowl (football) in 1946 and Notre Dame's opener in 1899 

(complete with color cover) to 
Spalding's basketball guide of 
1919. The guide features the 
rules, stars, and equipment of 
the day, including a basket 
with no hole and a ball with a 
seam. "We try to get to the 
origin," says Kyles. "To get 
back to the very earliest we 
can." 

There are also thousands of 
miscellaneous publications and 
magazines (40,000 total, and 
167 different titles). Prized 
pieces in this section include 
The Police Gazette of 1955, a 
magazine similar to Sports Il­
lustrated. One particular issue 
featured a picture of a young 
Joan Collins on the cover with 
the caption, "A Bad Girl Who 
Made Good." "We can see how 
magazines have changed: what 
was acceptable then. and what 
is now," says Kyles. Also, there 
are three first edition copies of 
Sports Illustrated, dated August 
16, 1954. "But what's really 
special is this," says Kyles. He 
pulls out a magazine from 
December 5, 195.3. It is a dum­
my, for the now entitled New 
Sport Magazine. This is what 
later became Sports Illustrated. 
Finally, there are the films: 
5,.300 reels. Many are of Notre 
Dame sports, and they have all 
been cleaned and in some 
cases edited. Often they will be 
pulled and use_d during televi· 
sion broadcasts. According to 
Kyles, "The reason you can see 
them on TV is because we take .good care of them. We make 
sure they're preserved." There 
are also reels and videotapes 
of professional games. 

The collection still does not stop there. There are I 00, 000 pieces of personal correspond­ence. There are scrapbooks. Additionally, Kyles has estab­lished a "strong network" around the country, with other libraries, sports organizations (including teams), and sports Halls of Fame. Therefore, if someone needs a material that Notre Dame doesn't have, Kyles can get the information or a copy from somewhere else. 
Lastly, there is the memorabilia: the "Knute Rockne: All-American" script; the football helmets and baseball mitts from the 20's; the baseball auto· graphed by Babe Ruth; and Joe Frazier's sparring gloves from the fight with Muhammad Ali. And on and on. There is not such an emphasis on international ma­terials, but the Olympics and Pan Am Games are represented in terms of resources and souvenirs alike. 
Kyles affirms that the mainte­nance of the collection is "con­cerned with the academic pur­suit of sports." Indeed, there is much to be learned from this collection which has been praised in the New York Times and Smithsonian maga-zine. Next time you don't feel like taking that left turn into the library, take a right into the Sports Research Collection in­stead. You'll be trans· ported back in time, and you may also pick up more than trivia and statistics about your favorite sport or athlete. 
What do you think of JPW? 
Complied by Cara Anthony and Christine Walsh Photos by Zoltan <Jry 
"At JPW lastyear, we had a dance, a dinner, and Sunday brunch. Probably about two-thirds to three-quarters of the junior's par­ents come. But. more parents would come, If It were held when the weather was better. Some par­ents adopt a junior for the weekend because their parents couldn't come. One bad thing about JPW Is that It's so expen­sive. The dinners can run up to $25 a head." 
Maureen Lynch 


Senior 
"My parents are coming out for JPW. I'm psyched. It should be a lot of fun. Your parents get to meet your friends and room­mates' parents. JPW can get pretty expensive, but my parents are paying for it. I think It's a good Idea that there aren't any other parties on campus JPW weekend. It's only one weekend out of the year, and we did It for all the other classes." 
Pat Marschall Junior 
"I don't think they should prohibit parties for JPW. Parents should get a realistic look ofcampus life. It's good to keep socializing low­key, but we shouldn't be putting on a false show for the parents. 
I don't look at the weekend as being any different on my part. It'sjust like a football weekend." 
Jill Simchuk Freshman 


"When I was an undergraduate at Saint Mary's, we had Sophomore Parents' Weekend. I think It's a great Idea. Parents get to see the University, and how their kids are living." 

Joanie McKenna Graduate student 


"They should give us every oppor­tunity to get away from the juniors and their parents. Actual­ly, they can do whatever they want, as long as they don't bother anyone else. If I were a junior, I'd tell my parents to stay as far away from campus as possible. The last thing we need around here Is a bunch of people running around In plaid pants." 
Chris Kametz Freshman 


"I think JPW Is a good Idea. I wish we weren't limited to three families per table. That breaks up a quad. It's a pain that we can only have two guests come. You can 't have your grandparents or little sister come as well. I think It's an excellent tradition, be· cause It's one ofthe last years you can really be with your parents. And It's good time spent with them." 

Mike Ryan Junior 

--~l 
-


page 10
-Sports Briefs 
The Water Polo Club will have a mandatory meeting with practice following tonight at 8 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. -The Observer 
Varsity and Novice crew teams will have a meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. This is the last chance to be included for the Spring Break trip. -The Observer 
Thewomen'srugbyteamwillhaveanorganizational meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Middle Room of Farley Hall. If you are unable to come but are still interested in playing, call Lauren Nathe (3560), Kathy Shannon (4067) or Sarah Prinster (4039). -The Observer 
The Alpine Club will have a meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. If you have any questions, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
Th~ Blue Lin~ Club. will sponsor a trip to Notre Dames hockey senes agamst Michigan-Dearborn this weekend. Buses leave Friday, Feb. 19, at 2 p.m. and return Sunday at ! a.m. (after the game). Cost is $30 for bus transportatiOn, and $65 per room at the Hyatt Regency. 
-The Observer 
The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1988 
USA starting to make strides with their figure skating pairs 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta-The Soviets may have won the gold, but the Americans put on their best showing in pairs skating in Olympic history. And U.S. coaches say it's just going to get better. 
American skaters Jill Watson of Bloomington, Ind., and Peter Oppegard skated for a bronze medal, while teammates Gil­lian Wachsman and Todd Wag­goner placed fifth -the first time_ two U.S. couples have placed in the top five since Olympic figure skating began in 1908. 
The third U.S. team, Kim and Wayne Seybold of Marion, Ind., placed lOth in Tuesday night's performance at the Sad­dledome. 
"We're right in there with the Russians, so that's a first," said Pauline Williams, who coaches Wachsman and Wag­goner. "And we have a lot more depth than we've ever had .. in years to come, other pairs teams will be able to keep this up." 

Ekaterina Gordeeva and Ser­gei Grinkov breezed into first place, extending a string of So­viet gold medals in the event that began in 1964, when the legendary Lyudmila Belousova and Oleg Protopopov won the pairs at the Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria. 
In second place were 1984 Olympic pairs champions Elena Valova and Oleg Vasiliev, while a third Soviet couple, Larisa Seleznova and Oleg Makarov a, came from be­hind to finish fourth. 
Oppegard, 28, of Knoxville, Tenn., took his and Watson's strong finish as a good omen. It was only the second bronze for the United States in that event and was the first U.S. medal of the current Games. 
"I think we are showing that the Americans have become very strong in the pairs event and will be a force to reckon with in the future," he said. 
Williams and other U.S. coaches including pairs coach Ron Ludington say dozens of strong pairs skaters are com­ing up through the ranks. 
They point to Californians Kristi Yamaguchi and Rudi Galindo as a prime example of what could become a winning tradition. 

Tile~ Notre Dame office, located on the thln:l floof of LaFortune Stu­Milt Center, .a:epts classified ~sing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The~ Saint u.y's office, located on the thln:l fiOOI' of H-ov-Collge Center, .a:epta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thn:lugh Friday. Deadline for next-day claaalfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must
Classifieds be pnlpald, eltMr In penon Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five charKtenl per ct.y. 
EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288­ Have a Coke and a DEADLY smile.  ATfmTION JUNIOR FORMER HOWARD  TO WHOEVER TOOK THE SPORTS IL­ LSS LSS  
NOTICES  0955  BOYCOTT COCA-COLA!  RESIDENTS: It looks now like the JI'W party Is on for Saturday night Feb.  LUSTRATED OUT OF MY MAILBOX ON 21f3 OR 21f4: PLEASE RETURN IT-­ LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS  
2oth. after the dinner (around 9:.30 or  INTACT--IMMEDIATELY.  NO  QUES­ LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS  
Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs for the best price on Sony D&OD 3.5" diskettes for your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283-2101 and help support the Macin­tosh Users Group! Guaranteed for fife  WANTED Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 11 08 evenings.  LONDON-ROME SUMMER PRO­GRAMS 1988 SMC-ND London: May 18-June 17 -travel In lreland,Scotland,England,& France Rome: June 12-July 11 -travel In France,Swltz.,Germ.,& Italy Coursas  SO) In room 219 in the Rock. It will last for about two hours or so. We will be asking for a slight donation at the door, since, as If you need to be told this, we don't have a hall to cover the extra costs. If you have any questions or problems, call Kevin at ~09 or Kent at 289-8614. Make sure you tell any  TIONS WILL :'IE ASKED. THANK YOU. JOE MC., 306 BROWNSON P.S.I HAVE WITNESSES RON M., FROM YOUR TRUE HOMETOWN FRIEND FROM GALES­BURG, IL.--HAVE A GREAT 21ST!!! LOVE, MONICA  LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS IF A CHICKEN & A HALF CAN LAY AN EGG & A HALF IN A DAY & A HALF, HOW LONG WOULD IT TAKE A GRAs­SHOPPER WITH A WOODEN LEG TO  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY.  ······················ OVERSEAS JOBS..Summar, yr.round.  In Photo,Bio,Buec,Hiat,Soc,& ltal. INFORMATIONAL I ORGANIZA­TIONAL  tloward guys you see about It too. in case they don·t see this ad. We'll also try to send out letters. See you there.  ANNETTE ROWLAND, IT HAS COME  KICK ALL THE SEEDS OUT OF A DILL PICKLE? FOR THE ANSWER TO THIS AND ALL SECRETS OF THE UNI­ 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING .CALL DOLORES 237-1949 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU MRS. COKER 233-7009. MY GIRLFRIEND needs a ride from NO to Pittsburgh after JPW. If your parents would be able to give her a ride to the Pittsburgh area, please call Kevin at 239-5303. Thanks.  Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Asla. All fields. $90().2000 mo. Slghts­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS OH. THIS FRI. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL KATHY 4205. • ' • RIDE NEEDED • ' ' To Minneapolis weekend of Feb 26th. Will share expenses. Call Jane at 284­4411. Need Ride to CHICAGO 2-26 -2880  MEETING Feb 23 -7:00 p.m. Carroll Hall (SMC) For More Info, Cafl Prof.Biack at 284­4460 Lalli Chance For Spring Break '881 Limited space ramalna at South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wal­ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado for skflng. Hurry, Calf Sunchaaa Toura toll free 1-800-321-5911 for reserva­tions and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted. EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK! JPW needs student workers. Call 239­ YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed.. Things We Won't Miss V: Dallas DID YOU MISS VALENTINE'S DAY? COME IN AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR OVERFLOW--A BOUQUET OF 15 ROSES FOR $1.501 THAT'S 15 FOR 1.50, NOT 1.50 EACH. IRISH GAR­DENS, 12:30-5:30, M-SAT., LA FOR­ ·  TO OUR ATTENTION THAT THE OUIJA HAS FORECASTED WRONG INFOR­MATION REGARDING YOUR BIRTHDAY. WE HOPE YOU ARE RECOVERED BY NOW!! ITS NEW PREDICTION IS TO STAY AWAY FROM CHIP'S NEXT WEEK. WE LOVE YOU. THE PENTHOUSE JFC­WORDS OFTEN FALL SHORT OF EMOTIONS, AND NONE DESCRIBE HOW MUCH I MISSED YOU. BUT ONE PHRASE I LIKE REMAINS TRUE TO THE HEART, THOUGH I DON'T SAY IT OFTEN ENOUGH: I LOVE YOU  VERSE COME TO A LIFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINAR TONIGHT AT 7:30 IN THE DILLON CHAPEL FOR THOSE WHO MISSED LAST WEEK'S SEMI­NAR THERE WIU BE A RECAP BEGINNING AT 7:00. IT'S A GREAT WAY TO INCREASE YOUR FAITH. WHY NOT GIVE UP ONE HOUR A WEEK FOR LENT? ALL ARE WEL­COME! HELP I DESPERATERLY NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND THIS WEEKEND: 21f9 -2-21 WILL PAY$ CALL NICK AT X1391  
An Tostaf Organizational Meeting-all wel­come! February 21, 1988 120 Cushing (E. Aud) 7:30 PM 7:30 PM 7:30 PM Mark your calenders NOW!!! Country Harvester a great place to show Mom this weekend! La Fortune  FOR SALE SLEEPER LOVESEAT Blue contemporary design like new con­dition $250 CALL 284-4531 or 287-7023  C7814 for more info! INTERESTED IN MAKING A LITTLE EX­TRA CASH ON THE WEEKENDS? Be a photographer for Irish Photos and take pictures at SYR's and formals. All you need is a 35mm camera and a desire to  TUNE BASEMENT Why go to ADWORKS for your resume? Come to us! • Typeset quality • Personal service • Lower prices  HAPPY BELATED VALENTINE'S!! A BELATED VALENTINE'S WISH FOR NAVARRE: ROSES ARE RED, ALCO­HOL IS CLEAR, HUGS & KISSES TO ALL, FOR ALL ARE VERY DEAR,  To the short girl who was wearing a black skirt and a black and white sweater and was dancing all night last Thursday at Chip's, do you have a boyfriend? I'd like to mee1 you. Reply here ASAP.  
besement-Fun Gilts. I LOST/FOUND I Lost Lost Black and Gold Seiko watch. If found call Rob at £2506. Reward Reward FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES NEAR ZAHM HALL CALL JEN AT 3193 TO CLAIM. IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK ARST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­INGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIII without my brown leather gloves !left in 120 O'Shag on that cold Wednesday 1Oth 2:00pm. If found, please call £1763 soonlllllllllllll  HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN MON. MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTIABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. FOR SALE: Steinberger-copy Headless Bass, Hardshell case. Traynor Bloc-80 Amp. Set for $400 or best offer. Also, Complete Bedroom Outfit-Db!. Be& Box Spring-Triple Dressel1 Mirror-S-Drawer Chest. Set for $250 or best offer. Call Gene Jr. at 282-1757... New Geze bindings. Negotiable. Call 3945. .................................................. FOR SALE: LONDON -2 round trip tix -use by 6-15-88 Call 317-848-7590. FRESH BLACK WALNUT MEATS (WHILE THEY LAST). $5 LB. CALL  meet people. CALL PAT AT 2318. Give me an 0 -fashions of a class act­FASHION SAVVY 8 pm CENTURY CENTER FEB. 20 -daslgnar tsshfons for men & women, live band, party-tree transportation SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL SCREAMING MIDGETS FROM HELL THEY'RE BACK!!! 'DA SCREAMIN' BROTHERS OF MIDGETHOOD: They're on a mission from the true Lord I •• KATHRYN HUMM -"KATHRYN HUMM" Camp Hell is done for now. RELAX I --L.W.O.Y.  • Money-back guarantee Call Tim at 283-2101 to set up an ap­pointment with the pros. TO the secret admirer 401 McCandless Thanks you for the singing telegram who are you? Reply here. NEED RIDE TO OHIO STATE Feb 19 CALL Kathleen £284-5201 Things I'll miss at the office: Regis' backrubs. Well Hello Tiny Woman: If you promise to be really good, and brush your Ieeth and put your pajamas and get right in bed, daddy will tell you a bed time story. "There once was a beautiful princess.. ." When you're hot you smoke: Drink Diet Coke. PINKY AND SQUISHY?????? I think not.  HOPE THE TRIP WAS GREAT FUN, A GOOD TIME HAD BY EVERYONE. GLAD TO HAVE YOU ALL BACK, AGAIN, SAFE & NEARI LOVE TO ALL­-KATIE Kathy C.: I just wanted to let you know, rather belatedly, that I really enjoyed your company last Friday night. Thanks for one of my better SYRs of the last 4 years. Have a nice weekend --Paul HEY SPIKE -YOU'RE OUT OF CON­TROLl HEY CUBI, THE MASHED POTATO MAN IS GOING TO GET YOU -BEWARE! P.S. -E.T., HAVE YOU BEEN SCRUBBING WITH AJAX LATELY? HMMMM? I heard ANGELA MENDOZA is having a baby -oops, I mean birthday. HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO BALL STATE.  LISTEN TO CAMPUS PERSPECTIVES 10-11 P.M. WVFI-AM 640 CALL IN YOUR QUESTIONS 239-6400 thank you, st. jude!! thank you, st. jude!! .................................... IF THE WIMP CAN'T PLAY QUALITY TUNES AND BE A "EE" AND "WATERBOY" AT THE SAME TIME, THEN STOP HIM FROM TORTURING HOCKEY FANSII WHY DOES THE WHIP WEAR HEAD­PHONES? SO HE DOESN'T HAVE TO LISTEN TO INSIPID MUSIC HE PLAYS! GET TO THE POLLS ONE MORE TIME ELECT MARK CHAPMAN TO STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 3  
LOST: IRISH WALKING HAT, SANDY BROWN TWEED. CALL HEATHER 284-5100. FOUND: Pair of eyeglasses between P.E. and D-2 parking lot. Call Usa at 4276 to claim. LOST--A Hewlett Packard calculator. If you've found one please call Bill at x­t620.  BETTY AT 239-5604. TICKETS HEY Y'ALL, 4 BEAUTIFUL BLONDES FROM VANDERBILT ARE DESPERATELY SEEKING VANDY NO BBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL PAT 2n­2151  YOW PRE/ rY LADIES AROUIVu THE WORLD: THE GROOVE AT CHIPS TUES FEB 23 AND WED FEB 24 TELL YOUR BROTHER, YOUR SISTER AND YOUR MOMMA TOO! We're Not Blowing Smoke: The Choice Is Coke  More like GREEN AND QUEASYIIIIIIII hope It was a Happy Blrthdayllll So it was all my fault huh? Who made you drink all of those shots? Just think only 1460 days until we can celebrate again!! Maybe we'll do CHIPS again. Hope your birthday was fun ANET!I!! Smile. I LOVE YOU! We know.  CALL LIZ AT 284-5262 IF YOU CAN HELP. Get a Valentine gift for a new love or the one you forgot. Valentine boxes are still available. Call 2521 THE SALTY DOGS ARE BEGINNING TO LOSE THEIR SPICE II!!  THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU SHOT FOR SHOT AND VOMIT AFTER VOMIT­THANK YOU, MY FRIENDS FOR HEL­PING ME CELEBRATE A MOST WON­DERFUL DAY­THE DAY THAT MADE IT LEGAL FOR ME TO DRINK TILL I VOMIT IN A  
--­ FOUND RACQUETBALL RACKET COVER IN PW MON 2lf 5. CALL £2737 TO CLAIM REWARD FOR LOST GOLD BRACELET(round).IT WAS LOST ON TUESDAY FEB 16, AND A GOLD HEART SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO IT. TO MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE, A PRESENT FROM MY BOYFRIEND. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4178. THANK YOU FOR RENT FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND. 2n­3097, 683-8889. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-095!>255­3684  PLANE TICKET 4 SALE S.BEND TO CHICAGO ¢ CHICAGO TO BUR­LINGTON,VT £2153 I NEED 3 MARQUETTE TIXI PLEASE CALL MARY AT 37601 WANTED: 2 TIX FOR VANDERBILT GAME Call Krlatl 291-9640 2 VANDERBILT AND 2 MARQUETTE TIX for sale $10 272-8813 Need 2 Vanderbilt GA'S--Mike 1699 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  White Zit I scratched your back Its your turn Guess Who RUNOFF-YOUR VOTE COULD MAKE THE DIFFERENCE CHAPMAN FOR DISTRICT 3 SENATE Mom warned me about dirty old men like you. She always told me to keep the door closed and both feet on the floor. But maybe I'm ready to SNAP out of that stage. .................... ·aiii...BA.il.EY····················· Here's yet ANOTHER personal! Sanibel Sanibel Sanibel  Just back from her 1 0 day stint in FLORIDA, SLAMMER gives a command performance TONIGHT. Entertainment includes: • New character DIANE replac­ing Lorraine • Repeated use of phrase: "No more, I don't want to throw up" • A rousing rendition of "Happy Birthday, You Sly Devil" by her back up group, Betty and the Psychos • Erotic dancing on tables HAPPY 21st TO ONE OF THE SEMI-GREAT ROOMMATES!! HEY NANDO TELL ME WHO IN THIS HOUSE KNOW ABOUT THE QUAKE? I MEAN REALLY s:riiC3s-·iioiis'soNG·s.......................... F~;·:s~i~:·c:;~;g:;;i~~-~~d-·;;;~·;;;~~ii~·s;~-­dent ticket x1 108 o~~~--si~i;;;;;~~:-i··co-vii··.;;ou·,·····------···  TO MATI CRAMER: I WATCHED YOU (ONLY YOU) AT THE INTERHALL HOCKEY GAME THE OTHER NIGHT. I FIND TOU VERY ATTRACTIVE. I WANT YOUR BODY. I HEARD IT WAS YOUR BIRTHDAY TOO, SO HAVE A GREAT B-DAY!! LOVE, YOUR SECRET AD­MIRER. TO MATT CRAMER: HAVE A GREAT B-DAY. YOU ARE A GREAT FRIEND!!! WE WOULDN'T TRADE YOU FOR ANYTHING. STAY COOL! LOVE, THE SMC CHICKS. Dear Snuggle, Here's your Valentine personal--it Love You, Bunny YOU CAN HELP MAINTAIN SUPPORT ON SOUTH QUAD VOTE IN RUNOFF AND ELECT MARK CHAPMAN FOR SENATOR  PUBLIC ESTABLISHMENT. LOVE YOU ALL. ANET HOTTER THAN HOTII WETTER THAN WETI! SLIMIER THAN SLIME!! THE LABIAN MINERS ARE COMING II SHAWN SEX-DOG SEXTON & PETER SHEEP-DOG FLANAGAN Cocktail Sausage?! Slab, yes, meat, yes, but Cocktail Seusage?l If it's a Cocktail Sausage then you guys are sporting Plankton LinksII Have a nice day. -the Equalizer  

Thursday, February 18, 1988 
Todays Events 
Ice Hockey: 
4:00 p.m. France vs. Poland 4:15p.m. Switzerland vs. Sweden 8:15p.m. Canada vs. Finland Figure Skating: 
8:00 p.m. Men's Short Program Alpine Skiing: 
1:30 p.m. Women's Downhill Ski Jumping: 3:30p.m. 90 Meters Team Speed Skating: 
8:00 p.m. Men's 1000 Meters 
ABC Coverage 8:00-11:00 p.m. Ice Hockey, Men's Figure Skating, Women's Downhill, Ski Jumping, Speed .Skating 11:30-12:00 Highlights of the day's events 
Kasatonov put the ,:,uv1ets up 3-1 with a 50-foot slapshot from 

HOckey 
the right point. 

Allen Bourbeau brought the continued from page 16 sold-out pro-American crowd throughout most of the tourna-at the Saddledome roaring to ment, the Americans were life with a spectacular sliding caught with their defensemen goal from just outside the out of position on the play al-crease at 11:40. lowing the Soviets a But the chants of "USA, breakaway. USA" were quickly quieted Kasatonov scored from the when Valery Kamenshy, Igor slot on a 25-footer less than two Larionov and Fetisov put the minutes later and Terreri had Soviets into a 6-2 lead. no excuse for this one. The shot Kamensky scored from the 
went through his legs with slot with a 10-footer at 14:24. three seconds left on the Soviet Larionov put one in from just power play. outside the crease at 16: 16 and 
MacDonald scored his first Fetisov beat Terreri with a shot goal on a breakaway at 1:30 of . from just above the left circle the second period, but at 18:46. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JUt advertising. ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 C 
1kPr You'll. see 
14 P the savings! 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 
$39.98 

Dally Wear Powers +7.00 to ·12.00 
Extended Wear Powers plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted 
2 Pairs for

Contact Lenses 
Daily or 
ExtendedWear 
$99.98

•••cb • Lo1Dll or leftm•te II 
2 Different Colors 

An eye exam is required at the time of 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Limitea time offer. 
"Our eyewear prices are the lowest in fndiana. and our eyecare quality is unswpassed. And that's a 
promise from the doctor.'' 
The Observer page 11 
Zurbriggen can't get 2ndgold; Calgary wind alters schedule 
Associated Press 

CALGARY, Alberta-Pirmin Zurbriggen lost his shot at a second gold medal in a tangle of skis and poles. 
Unrelenting winds that reached 50 mph wrought havoc on the Olympic schedule, delaying the double-gold quest of Matti Nykanen, the "Flying Finn." Nykanen was going after an unprecedented second victory in ski jumping when the 90-meter team event was postponed until Thursday. 
The final two runs of the wo­men's luge also were postponed. 
The Soviet Union picked up two more medals -a silver and bronze from its women's cross­country team -to run its count to nine. That's six more than Finland, Switzerland and the Netherlands. 
The United States still has just one medal, a pairs figure skating bronze by Jill Watson and Peter Oppegard that could have been a silver except for Watson's costly pratfall. Speed skater Eric Flaim almost got the United States its second medal in the 5,000-meter speed skating event. He missed the bronze by 1.17 seconds, finish­ing fourth. 
Zurbriggen had only to finish the second ruri of a slalom race, and he would have earned his 

second gold, in a new Olympic event called the combined, a downhill-slalom hybrid. In­stead, he fell when he hooked a gate with his right ski, and that ended any talk of an Alpine sweep. 
"I felt I was skiing well, and I was very surprised to see the gates between my skis," the 25­year-old Swiss said. "I am dis­appointed, but the downhill was my main goal, and I still have more chances for gold." 

Zurbriggen, one of the most 
versatile skiers in the world, 
won the traditional downhill 
gold medal on Monday, then 
finished first in the combined 
downhill Tuesday. And talk 
was: is this the next Jean­
Claude Killy? can Zurbriggen 
sweep all the Alpine events, as 
Killy did in 1968 and as Toni 
Sailer did in 1956? 
He provided the answer Wed­
nesday, but with the addition 
of two more Alpine events, 
Zurbriggen still could win four 
golds, one more than either 
Killy or Sailer. Standing in his 
way will be the Italian, Alberto 
Tomba, the best slalom skier 
in the world and the man bat­
tling Zurbriggen for the World 
Cup title. 
Matikainen, a bronze medalist at 10 kilometers, won the women's 5-kilometer cross­country race, beating Tamara Tokhonova of the Soviet Union by a 1.3 seconds. Ventsene, who won the 10 kilometers, was third. 
Switzerland's Plrmln Zurbrlggen failed to win his Zurbrlggen already has won a gold In the down­second gold medal Wednesday In the combined hill. slalom event, after falling on his second run. 
Get Involved in the 
World ofAdvertising 
NOW 

Create &Promote multi-thousand dollar advertising campaigns 
We need volunteers In the following areu: 
copy writing ad design marketing promotional concepts 
Experienced and non-experienced positions available 
PJct up applkat!ons at the Secretary's desk 2nd Ftoor LaFortune 
Applications are due Tfwrsdal/, February 25th
Soutb Bend Mishawaka JJIJ E lr.,••d Rd 5e6 W. MtKinkr 

-[J~ 
Bro•dmoor PlllZII K-hhnJJwhrt1n Center 
•m. from Seot&Male. Mall nu.l door 10 Oleo DNa 
291-4000 258-SOOO 


The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1988
page 12 
lnterhall hockey roundup 
Grace, 'Naugh reach playoffs 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
In Interhall hockey action this week, Grace and Cavanaugh clinched playoff spots, while St. Ed'sHoly Cross has taken the game off the ice and into the NVA office with a protest against Keenan follow­ing Tuesday night's game. 
On Monday night, Grace gave a preview of things to come with a 13-3 drubbing of Dillon. Grace's high score was due in part to hard-playing Eric Dallas and fast-skating Steve Bishop. Dallas scored five goals for Grace with Bishop also getting a hat trick (three goals). 
The second part of Grace's success was a change in the gameplan, according to team captain Mark Galis. 
"We switched from three average lines to two strong lines," said Galis. "With the switch everything just came to­gether." 
Another team that clinched a 
spot in the playoffs was 
Cavanaugh with a 3-1 victory 
over Pangborn. 
Following scores by both teams early in the first half, the pressure of getting a playoff spot turned the game into a "hackfest." This led to both verbal and physical abuse hv both players and fans. 
By late in the second half, the Cr~saders were able to regain therr heads. The "Mexican Line'', led by Jim Mejia, put the pressure on Pangborn's goalie res~lting in a second goal by MeJia and an insurance goal by Don Chisholm. 
Keenan came from behind late in the second half to beat the combined St. Ed's-Holy Cross team 4-2 on Tuesday. Brian McMahon's two goals led Keenan to its first win this season. 

The win, however, could be marred by a protest lodged by St. Ed's-Holy Cross coach Paul Arends. Arends' protest is in answer to Keenan's use of at least one player who is not a Keenan resident. Jim Roll, the player in question, is currently a resident of Stanford. Arends brought the violation to the at­tention of the referees and the Keenan bench during halftime. 
"The coach from St. Ed's came over and told us that if we used Jim in the second half, he would protest," said Keenan's captain Bill Grunert. 
Grunert also admitted to having one player from Carroll and one from off-campus, both of whom have played most of the season for Keenan. Hopes of a playoff bid for St. Ed's­Holy Cross rests on the decision of the NVA office. Until the NVA Hockey Commissioner makes that decision, however, the game will stand as a 4-2 Keenan win. 
Well, here we go again ... 
NCAA investigating SMU in sports besides football 
Associated Press 
DALLAS-Southern Method­ist University, whose football program is serving the stiffest penalty ever imposed, is being investigated by the NCAA for possible rules violations in other sports, Athletic Director Doug Single confirmed Wed­nesday. 
Single said the NCAA is fol­lowing up on allegations revealed in a seven-month study of SMU athletics by a private investigative firm the university hired, the Dallas Times Herald reported Wed­nesday in a copyright story. 
The NCAA has not indicated which sports are under inves­tigation, but a source close to the inquiry told the newspaper the internal report focused on men's basketball and track. 
Track 
continued from page 16 
other teams spread out their 
points and don't finish right be­
hind us." 
Notre Dame will face Purdue 
and ~ndiana along with Ball 
State, Indiana State and South­
ern Indiana, which is, accor­
ding to Piane, "a very good 
Division II school." 
Over 20 schools will compete in what amounts to yet another tough meet for the Irish. Piane is looking for a top three finish from his athletes. 
"Indiana and Purdue are both capable of placing in the top four of the Big Ten," said Piane. "Purdue is insisting that they can even win the Big Ten. Indiana State is a much improved team and Ball State was the Mid-American Confer­ence cross country champion, so naturally they'll be tough in the distance events. I think we can place in the top three if everything goes right." 
Among the athletes that Piane is counting on to perform well is sophomore Mike O'Connor. Also being expected to have an exceptional meet are junior Ron Markezich and senior co-captain Dan Garrett. 
Markezich and Garrett both will be among the favorites in the 3000 meters. 
Single told The Associated Press on Wednesday he could not comment on which sports were being investigated. 
"Well, obviously the school's position is to fully disclose the information and we'll cooperate fully with the inves­tigation," he said. "This (investigation) was initiated last summer by us and is just ongoing." 
Single said the NCAA would look at the school's internal report and then decide if it should investigate further. 
SMU basketball Coach Dave Bliss said, "Doug Single speaks for SMU. I can't comment on that." 
SMU track Coach Ted McLaughlin could not be reached for comment by the AP. 

David Berst, the NCAA's director of enforcement con­firmed Tuesday that the NCAA is looking into SMU's report and is working to corroborate the university's findings while developing information from sources outside the private in­vestigation. 
An unidentified source told 
the newspaper, "The most serious problems focused 3:round the track te_am and par-
Irish stomp CSU 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team won its fourth straight game Wednesday night, breezing past Cleveland State 87-69 on the road. 
Heidi Bunek led the Irish with 28 points, 22 of them com­ing in the first half. Bunek also pulled down a team-high nine rebounds. 
Sandy Botham added 14 points, while Krissi Davis chipped in with 10 (shooting 5­of-5 from the field). Mary Gavin dished off 10 assists, marking the third straight game in which she has had double figures in that category. 
Notre Dame never had any problems with the Vikings, breaking out to a 46-24 halftime lead. The Irish led by as many as 31 points in the second half, as all nine healthy team memembers saw playing time. 
The victory over Cleveland State marked Notre Dame's fourth win in its last five road games. The Irish now stand at 16-6 and next play Marquette, also on the road, Saturday at 5:00p.m. 


., ·.· . ~.y.&.· 
·~~ . "" 
V% 
The Observer I John Studebaker 

bcularly t_he coachmg staff and With Mary Gavin recording 10 assists, the Notre Dame women's ~he, handlmg of some funds. It basketball team cruised to an easy victory over Cleveland State on Isn t clear what type of funds Wednesday night. The win over the Vikings marked the fourth win they were, but they were not for the Irish In their last five road games 
school funds." 
Speaking of the basketball program, a source told the paper, "There were minor things involving kids that are there now. But they were much more serious regarding some players who are gone." 
1~-r::·-------------'1.~~: ·.~" THE KNIGHTS 1 

~ We are only I minutes from campus. 
We now have a brand new 1 
1

· MALE DEPARTMENT 8RIJ'IG 11'1 THIS COUPON AI'ID SAVE.I 
Haircuts are $6 with this coupon. 1
.....____________
277-1691 -' 
:;:;:;~ ~"""'"""'""""!AftftNVUVVVIINWIVVV"""'ftftfti'WVVI!Aftft~VVVI!AftftiVVVVVVIINWIVVVI"""'ftftfti""""IMfta' ·.·. · 
w ~ 
~:; , Applications for Theodore's Student I 1: Managers for the 1988-89 fl !!, school year are now available in the , 
ll' ~:;e:~s::d~::n:~tii;~~es. ·····~· 
8 ~ 
·.··· ::::::: 
·:···:Ji_J:.i:/~ Monday, Feb. 29 ~ 
. 
~: ~: ~: ~ 


· 
Hey B.B. You're 21 Are you ready to Explode? BEAUTIFUL!! 
--E.J., M.R., P.M., 
D.M., T.C., J.G., 
M.G., L.J.B., AND 


Thursday, February 18, 1988 The Observer page 13 
of three major upsets in Sout-an 8-0 run. 

The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contains the potential graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they will appear in the commencement 
program and the NAME as it will appear on the diploma. 
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office before February 19, 1988. Graduate students should contact the Graduate School Office-ROOM 316 Administration Building. Law students should report to ROOM 106 of the Law School. Questions about your Degree! Major should be directed to your Dean. 
Diploma name changes requested after February 19 will require a $15.00 charge. 
You will receive a commencement ticket request form by March 1 , 1988 together with information about announcements, cap/gown rental,etc. 
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. Dean of Administration and University Registrar 

College basketball roundup 
Tennessee tops Kentucky
The Observer 
Associated Press heastern C~mference play Wed-Bill Batts led Virginia with
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
nesday mght, ~s Alabama 14 points and John Johnson Dame and. Saint Mary's is accepting applications for KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-Greg stunned Vanderbilt 88-77 and added 12 for the Cavaliers 12­the following position: Bell made a 5-footer with one Mississippi shocked Florida 82-13 and 4-5. ' 
second remaining to give Ten­75. UNC 80, Wake Forest nessee a 72-70 upset over No.9 62
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS (2) 
Kentucky Wednesday night in Duke 73, UVA 54 the Southeastern Conference. CHAPEL HILL, N.C.-Steve 
Bell's basket came after Ten­DURHAM, N.C.-Danny Bucknall and Kevin MaddenPersonal statements are due Monday nessee's Clarence Swearengen ~erry scored ,28 points, incl~d-scored 15 points each Wednes­batted away a Kentucky ball. mg 12 of Duke s ftrs~ 14, leadt~g day night, leading No. 5 North 
by 5 p.m. in the Observer office. The Volunteers, who snapped a the No. 6 Blue Devils past Vrr-Carolina to an 80-62 victory three-game losing streak, im­ginia 73-54 Wednesday. over Wake Forest. proved to 13-9 and 6-7. Ferry's opening run enbled North Carolina improved to
Questio~s may be addressed to 
Ed Davender scored 27 Duke, 19-3 and 8-2 in the Atlan-19-3 and 8-2. points for the Wildcats, 18-4 and tic C~ast Confere~c~, ~o take a Mich. 82 Minn. 78Marty Strasen at 239-5303. 10-4. Dyron Nix scored 20 for 10-pomt lead. Vrrgm1a came ' Tennessee. back to c~t it to four before t_he MINNEAPOLIS-Terry Mills Tennessee's victory was one Blue Devils pulled away wtth scored five of Michigan's final 
six points, including two free throws with four seconds left, as the No. 10 Wolverines held off Minnesota in a 82-78 Big Ten game Wednesday night. 
The Gophers, 9-13 overall and 3-9 in the conference, rallied from a 13-point deficit with 
12:36 left to pull within two points with 19 seconds remain­ing. 
OU 79, Okla. State 75 
STILLWATER, Okla.­Stacey King scored 22 points and Dave Sieger made two im­portant free throws with 12 seconds left Wednesday night as No. 4 Oklahoma held off Oklahoma State 79-75 for its ninth consecutive victorv. 
Evansville 73, MU 72 
EVANSVILLE, Ind.-Curtis Jackson hit a 6-footer in the lane with five seconds left and Marty Simmons scored 26 points to pace Evansville to a 73-72 win over Marquette Wed­nesday 
Marquette, 10-13, regained the lead when Mark Anglavar hit a 3-pointer, but then Jackson scored after missing his first five field-goal attempts of the game. Michael Sims' 3-point at­tempt fell short for Marquette as time ran out. 
In other college basketball act_ion Wednesday, Lafayette whtpped Rider 70-57, Syracuse bounced St. John's 82-68 Florida A&M rattled South' Carolina State 74-64, Georgia Tech stung Maryland 104-82 Navy cruised past Fordham 54: 51, Auburn dogged Mississippi S~ate 77-61, LSU nipped Geor­gia .63-62, Louisville scalped Flortda State 82-62, Illinois crushed Ohio State 118-86 
St_ate 85-76 and SMU topped
•----------------------------------------· Toledo rocketed past Cleveland 
RICe 86-68. 
BEER LIQUOR
CITY-WIDE LIQUORS 
McCormick Vodka ... 1. 75 llters..$7.99 
Old Mitwaukee...24 cans.. $5.99 
McCormick Gin... 1.75 liters.. $8.99 
Old Milwaukee Llgh1...24 cans.. $5.99 
McCormick Blend ... 1.75 iKers..$9.99 
Llte ...24 cans.. $8.57 
3825 N. Grape Rd. 
Castillo Rum... 1. 75 llters..$11.99 
Mish, Ind. 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-10 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 272-2274 
SUPER SPECIAL Little Kings 24 bottles 
70Z. 
$4.99 

Hiram Walker Peach Schnapp's.. .llter..$10.99 Dekuypar Apple Barrel Schnapp'a.. .liter..$4.99 Dekuyper Root Beer Schnapp·s ... llter .. $4.99 
WINE 

Carlo R0881.4 llters..$5.59 Gallo Blush Chablis... 1.5 llters.. $3.99 
'-~.,) 
TRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE OFF EDISON RD. 

-
~~ 
I
.e1
,, .j<'l 
a 
~~ 


Miller's... 24 cans.. $8.57 
Genuine Dratt ... 24 cans..$8.57 
Miester Brau ...24 cans..$4.99 
Old Style ... 24 cans.. $7.99 
Hammes...24 cans.. $5.99 
Hammes ligh1...24 cans..$5.99 
Stroh's ... 30 pack.. $8.57 
RETURNABLES 
Budweisar ... 24 bottles..$8.38 Budweiser ilgh1...24 bottles..$8.38 Rhinelander , ..24 bo«les..$4.99 
QUARTS 
Budweioer ... 12 quarts .. $11.69 Budweioer llgh1...12 quarts ..$11.69 Busch... 12 quarts .. $8.99 
(·m,~~
1 
li~Birl\ 
.J 
\ . •~ 

------------------CALL fOR SYR PARTIES 
,...---------------­
page 14 
-

Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame's singles lineup this weekend will include fresh­man CeCe Cahill at the top seed, followed by senior cap­tain Michelle Dasso, sopho­more Alice Lohrer, freshman Kim Pacella, freshman Cathy Bradshaw and sophomore Jackie Uhll. 
The doubles pairs will be Cahill and Dasso, Pacella and· Lohrer and Bradshaw with either Uhll or sophomore Pat O'Byrne. 
Notre Dame will have to rely on a singles lineup that includes three freshmen. But then again, the top two singles records last fall came from freshmen. 
While Cahill posted a 21-1 record as the top seed last fall, Pacella recorded an 11-5 singles record and an 11-4 doubles mark. 
"She (Pacella) has really come a long way," said Gelfman. "She's a team person and has a terrific personality. She has a lot of raw skills and more athletic ability than anyone I've seen." 
Pacella's success in the fall answered several of her own questions, as the Toledo, Ohio, native did not know what to ex­pect coming into college play. 
"In Junior tennis, you knew who you were playing, and you were thinking, 'I have to beat this girl. She beat me last time,"' said Pacella, recalling 
her pre-collegiate competi­tions. "Now, I was just a fresh­man, and nobody knew who I was. I just went out and played because now I didn't know the people I was playing." 
At Notre Dame Academy in Toledo, Pacella never lost a regular season matCh and cap­tained a state championship team her junior_ y~r. But she thought the Junior competitions were more beneficial. 
She started playing competi­tively at the age of 11 and, during her junior year, was ranked 23rd in the Western Tennis Association. 
Her work eventually resulted in her goal of playing collegiate tennis. She didn't have much trouble choosing her college. 
"I've grown up wanting to go here," said Pacella. "My grandparents taught here, my dad went to law school here and my room has Notre Dame stuff all over it. 
"Whenever there was an ar­ticle (about the ND tennis 
Correction 
The men's tennis team will be competing at home this weekend. It was reported otherwise in Wednesday's edi­tion of The Observer. 
But Pacella still ack­
nowledges she needs much 
work on her game, particularly 
in her doubles play. 
"I think I have to come into 
the net more," says Pacella. 
"In Junior tennis, you can stay on the baseline, but in college you've got to come to the net. 
"Doubles, I just played for fun before, but here it's impor-
The Observer 
team) in the paper, they'd send it to me, and they sent me some media guides," she continued. "Notre Dame was my first choice no matter what." 
She learned that she had se­cured a spot on the team almost exactly a year ago. From there, she worked her way into a position among the top six players. 
her," says the third-year Irish coac~. "We're just trying to get her m control, and if we can harness and direct that, she can only get better. 
"I wasn't exactly sure of how she'd handle the pressure of playing in college," Gelfman continued, "but she can remain calm all the time. That's the difference between Kim and a lot of other players." 

Anyway youslice it,Domino's Pizza® •
IS agreat deal! 
Use all or any of the coupons and save on your next purchase from Domino's Pizza. Get rolling! Offer ends soon. 
Domino's Pizza will deliver your pizza-hot and fresh -in less than 30 minutes. 
II. 
Think Thick $5.00 
Only $5.00 for a 12" pizza with thick crust, extra cheese and pepperoni. Good on Thursday. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. 
Fast, Free Delivery •• 
Expires: 2·29-88 
Valid at partiCipating stores only. 
Not valid with any other offer. 
Customer pays applicable sales tax. 
~---------------~ 

Just give us a call. 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 

~---------------, 

r·--------------,I 
I 

I  I  
;I  $1.00 Off!  I I  
$1.00 off any 12" pizza.  
One coupon per order. Not  
valid with any other offer.  

II
. Fast, Free Delivery'" 
• · ® Expires: 2-29-88 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays applicable salas tax. 

~---------------~ 
Thursday, February 18, 1988 

tant," continued Pacella. ''It's really important because after singles are played the match is often 3-3 or 4-2 and the doubles matches are the key to win­ning." 
Gelfman is more than pleased with Pacella's play so far, and is confident she will continue to improve. 
"She's an entirely different player from when I first saw 
Call us! 
Notre Dame 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 

r---------------, 
$2.00 Off! 
$2.00 off any 16" pizza. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. 


Fast, Free Delivery •• Expires: 2-29-88 
® 

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays applicable sales tax. 
~---------------~i 
-


-----------------~-~~ ~ 
Thursday, February 18, 1988 The Observer pa e 15 
7 Enthralled 38 Dressed 47 Bell town 58 Gold: Sp. 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
1H€Y'R! WIITCH!N& 
FI?IJM IlBOV€ .(/ Pf(IVACY I~ H15TOI?Y/ fXJG.111NY80lJY Clll?~ '! 
:J/f/H.•. IAIH!I?€ /11/tl.. ITt£11/J .~/ 

Campus 
Thursday 
12:30 p.m. GALA-Workshop on "The Shadow Government," a video by the Christie Institute on Iran-Contragate, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
8 p.m. Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Dayton, Joyce ACC. 
10-11 p.m. Campus Perspectives talkshow, Third World development will be 
discussed by members of the Overseas Development Network and the Center for Social Concerns, WVFI-AM 640, host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Pasta Faziole Meatball Hero Beef Stir Vegetables Fried Chicken  Fry  with  Beef Patty on Bun Vegetable Monterey Casserole Shrimp Stuffed Tomato Deli Bar  

Cheese and Vegetable Pot Pie 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Show group 5 Beat It! 
10 Exclamation 
of disgust 14 Nonesuch 15 Musical 
refrain 16 Eye part 17 Musical way 
back 20 Neckwear 21 One 22 Arm bones 23 Bows 24 Certain 
painters 26 Meet 
resolutely 30 Not quite shut 1--l---1---+-~­31 Wine pouch 32 Deck hands 35 Pol source 36 Musical 
direction 38 Contend (with) 39 Eng. river 40 Lacerated ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 41 Cut of meat 
All Rights Reserved 

42 King to Anna 46 Dietrich 8 Hgt. 49 Angry 9 -jongg 50 Ky. county 10 Open to all 51 Raison d'-11 Lendl et al. 52 Shoulder 12 Fr. governing 
enhancer body 55 Phrase from 13 Underworld old tune 18 Weill the 59 Sweeten the composer pot 19 Blake of 
60 Muscle music plasma 23 Flying prefix globulin 24 Sect 
61 Stood up 25 Am. mall 62 Tiny plant letters 63 Meager 26 Kismet 64 Aroma 27 Gr. warrior 
28 Be concerned DOWN 29 Rust-resistant 

1 Price  alloy  40  "Over  -"  48 Carries  on  
2 Against  32 Satellite  42 Cuts  51  Ms Kett  
3 Very dry  33 Grandiose  43 Internally  52 Slog  
4 Prefix with  34 Hawaii's  44 Like  a  knight  53 As well  
corn  or  pod  goose  45 Courageous  54 Color changer  
5 Bad smell  36 Bank deal  act  56 Existed  
6 Sea trip  37 A Gardner  46 Polite title  57 Govt. gp.  

Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 
WAAI W..l GCl\NG To 00, ~13Bt.s? I CANT BE ~N ClWL mRE'IER! 
25¢ 
F1ve Pomt!:! ClulJ 
S<onlo• (Goodw,IIJ 
1200 12 03 12.JO 12 33 1.00 1:03 
1:30 1·33 
2:00 2 03 
2:30 2 33 
1-\()W At/\ I GCl\t-\G 10 ~SMcx;RIF-< BAC\<. \N\Cl fl. KID 't-ME~ .--------­'ffiE \Wl..t-6­MOGR\89<. \S Bro~t.~? 
.2-/tl 
Coupon for one FREE Ride on the Buzz Bus. Friday and Saturday Nights 12-3 am 
Campus V<eW' 
Howard &  N.D.  :v1a1n  SMC  Library  Turtle Creek  
_51~ou1s  ~-­~parlmonls Clrclu  HoJy_gg~e~ Circle  (lv~ & Vonoss)  
12 07  12:10  12:14  12.18  12:22  12:25  
12'37  12 40  12:44  12:48  12:52.  1255  
1:07  1:10  1:1-1  1:18  1:22  1:25  
n7  1·40  1:44  1:J8  1:52  1:55  
207  210  2:14  2:18  2:22  2:25  

2 37 2:40 2:44 V8 2:52 ") 
",r~ 

25, 
"Well, Let's see .... So far I've got rhythm, I've got music ... actually, who could ask for anything more?" 
Happy Birthd,ay Lori 
Love, Peaches. 
Sports
Thursday, February 18, 1988 page 16 
Irish go up against Dayton's baby boomers tonight 
and a three-game losing New Jersey Meadowlands Flyers. Donoher's other option Mark Stevenson are prooableBy THERESA KELLY is to start sophomore forward starters for Phelps. Rivers isstreak, but the Irish head coach Tuesday night. 
Sports Writer 
Digger Phelps isn't taking "They haven't played since Bill Uhl. A sophomore, Uhl has carrying a 22.9 scoring Compared to most college them lightly. the loss to Marquette," Phelps seen more action than Howard average, while Robinson (7.7) "What concerns you is that continued. That (the loss) and is averaging 4.7 points and and Voce (6.6) lead the way in 
basketball teams, when the 
Dayton Flyers come in to the they beat Ohio State (81-80) at doesn't concern me. (Steve) 3.7 rebounds per contest. rebounding. 
Pittman didn't play, and we Other starters for Dayton in­The Irish hold a 17-9 advan­Joyce ACC tonight, they might Ohio State and they beat DePaul (79-72) at Chicago," don't know about his back." clude leading scorer Anthony tage over the years against the as well be riding in baby car­
riages. Phelps said. "They're a Pittman, a junior, is the Corbitt (15.4 points, 6 rebounds Flyers, and Dayton has never We're talking young here. talented basketball team, when leading rebounder on the per game) at forward and 6'9 won in 11 tries at Notre Dame. Very young. they play." Flyers and is tossing in 12.7 1;2" center Troy McCracken At 15-7 with four games The Flyers' last game was a points per game. He began suf­(7.6 and 5.7), both sophomores. remaining, the Irish can notch
If Flyers' head coach Don Playing guard for the Flyers their fourth straight win with aDonoher doesn't start five sop­79-56 loss to Marquette on Sat­fering back spasms Feb. 8 will be Negele Knight and Ray victory tonight. 
homores, then he will start four urday. Before that, Dayton was against Miami (Ohio) and has 
sophomores and a freshman. involved in four consecutive not played since. It is doubtful Springer, also sophomores. "For us, it's one of those The Irish will probably overtime games, which ties an that he will play against the Knight is the Flyers' second games where it's a must win," 
counter with two sophomores, NCAA record. The Flyers lost Irish. scoring threat at 15 points per Phelps said. "We can't take it Freshman Sam Howard game and Springer leads the (a victory) for granted because 
but will have the experience of three of those contests. 
seniors David Rivers and Gary "He (Donoher) has probably (6'9") may take over Pittman's team in assists with five per of their record. Voce to fall back on if neces­had about four or five days to spot in the starting lineup. contest. "It's a must win with the stu­sary. get ready for us," Phelps said Howard is averaging 1.7 points In addition to Rivers and dent body," Phelps continued. 
The young Flyers come into following Notre Dame's 75-62 and 1.8 rebounds in very lim­Voce, sophomores Joe Fr~dr~ck "The sixth man has to be there ited playing time for the and Keith Robinson and Jumor for 40 minutes of intensity."
Notre Dame with a 10-13 record victory over Rutgers at the 
Track team 
Depleted tennis team fighting an 
heads for Wisconsin
injury bug 
Freshman Kim Pacella makes mark 
By MIKE SULLIVAN with the way Natalie's been
Sports Writer By STEVE MEGARGEE 
playing," said Gelfman. "It's
Sports Writer 

Every athletic team, whe­been difficult for (Stephanie) to ther it be on the high school, Even if the the Notre Dame meet all the requirements with colllegiate, or professional women's tennis team were at engineering and balance in ten­level, must deal with the full strength, it would be nis as well. dreaded issue of injuries. looking at a major challenge "Right now, she feels she's 
That is exactly the issue that this weekend at Wisconsin. really got to concetrate on confronts the Notre Dame But the Irish won't even be academics," Gelfman contin­men's track team as it heads close to full strength as they ued. "She has a four-year aca­
south to West Lafayette to com­face Wisconsin on Saturday demic scholarship, and she's pete in the Indiana Intercol­and Furman on Sunday. Both legiate Meet on the campus of matches will take place at Purdue University. The Irish Madison, Wis. will be without junior David "We need to go in, regroup
Warth, who still is nursing a and look for some upsets,'' said severely sprained ankle. Irish coach Michele Gelfman. 
Middle distance runner Yan "I've never played Furman Searcy also has a sprained before, but Wisconsin's one of ankle. the top three teams in the 
"We're on a day to day basis region."
with Yan," said Irish coach Joe Because of Junior Parents Piane. "We'll have to see how Weekend, juniors Natalie Illigit goes. and Julie Sullivan will not 
· "When faced with injuries, travel with the Irish. 
we obviously have to put the In addition, sophomore Step­best possible runners in the hanie Tolstedt has chosen not races," Piane continued. The Observer 1 Michael Moran to play this spring in order to 
"Naturally we don't have the 
Scott Paddock (43) and the Notre Dame basketball team go after concentrate on her academics. 
depth. We have to hope that the 
their fourth consecutive victory tonight against Dayton. Paddock "Missing Natalie and Julie Is coming off an Impressive outing against Rutgers where he pulled for this weekend's matchups
see TRACK, page 12 
down 12 rebounds. ' will hurt, especially in doubles 
No miracles this time as USSR holds off USA 


Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta-The 
U.S. hockey team ran out of miracles Wednesday night, losing 7-5 to the Soviet Union in their first Winter Olympic meeting since the stunning American victory at the 1980 Lake Placid Games. 
This one fell just short for the United States, which rallied from a 6-2 deficit to 6-5 but couldn't get even, despite out­shooting the high-powered Soviets 12-4 in the final period. 
The loss left the Americans on the brink of elimination from making the medals round, with a 1-2 record and having to beat Norway and West Germany to even have a chance. The defending gold medalist Soviets are now 3-0 and virtually assured a spot in the medals round. 
The top three teams from each of the two pools make the medals round. 
With V aicheslev Fetisov, their all-star defenseman from their main Red Army club, leading the way with two goals and three assists, the Soviets continued the domination of Americans in international play. 
The victory was the sixth in eight meetings with the United States in Olympic play since the Soviets played their first Olympic game in 1956. The only time the Americans have beaten the Soviets in the Olym­pics came in the gold-medal winning years of 1960 and 1980, the last time a dramatic 4-3 vic­tory that was coined the "Miracle on Ice" at Lake Placid, N.Y. 
The Soviets have never lost to the Americans at the World Championships, holding a 22-0 advantage. 
The Soviets looked every bit the team that U.S. coach Dave Peterson called the strongest in the Winter Olympics. 

Fetisov set up Sergei Makarov at 7: 23 and then Alexei Kasatonov at 9:41 to help the Soviets grab a 2-0 lead after one period. 
Fetisov also set up Kasatonov's second goal at 
8: 58 of the second period and later scored himself at 18:46 to give the Soviets a 6-2 lead after 
two periods. Both of Kasatonov's goals and the one by Fetisov came on the power play. 
The Americans made things interesting on Lane Mac­Donald's second goal of the game and one by Scott Fusco in the first six minutes of the third period, but the Soviets held on to improve their chances for the six-team medal round and dampening those of the Americans. 
Fetisov then scored the clincher when he sailed in from the blue line, split the U.S. defense and put a backhander past Chris Terreri with 2: 01 left. 
The Soviets have two games left in the preliminary round, against unbeaten West Ger­many on Friday and third­seeded Czechoslovakia on Sun­day. 
The Soviets needed a clutch performance by goaltender Sergei Mylnikov to hold off the Americans, who charged back with three straight goals in the third period. 
MacDonald scored his second of the game when he tipped in a rebound at 3: 15. Fusco drove one in from the high slot at 5: 47 and Todd Oker­lund knocked in a rebound at 
10:52 to make it 6-5 Soviets. 
The Americans continued to pour it on with their offensive style and really threw a scare into the Soviets at the end, al­most tying it when Brian Leetch hit the post with 7:30 to go. 
Mylnikov wound up making 25 saves in the game. Mter giving up six goals on 24 shots in the first two periods, the Americans allowed only Fetisov's clinching goal in the final 20 minutes, when they got off only four shots. 
The Soviets dominated the 
first two periods, outshooting 
the Americans 24-19. 
They took a 1-0 lead when 
Fetisov fed Makarov at the red 
line and the Soviet forward put 
a backhander past Terreri for 
a 1-0 lead. As they have been 
see HOCKEY, page 11 






