Balmy breezes
IRISH EXTRA: Vanderbilt Preview 
Partly cloudy, warmer and 
windy today, high near 40. 
Partly cloudy tonight, low in the 
upper 20s. Partly sunny and
VIEWPOINT: ODN promotes awareness 
colder Saturday. High 30 to 35. 


• A A .: • • • 
. 

Cut it out 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 26 1988 
the inde.pendent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 

Recount shows Reilly still 2 votes short 
Saint Mary's sophomores Angela Rice, left, and Brigid Murphy study frogs in the 
named a replacement for Noriega, who 
laboratory to prepare for their lab practical exam in vertebrae morphology. 
is regarded as the real power behind 
Pax Christi to protest Reagan's policy during visit 
By NATASHA WILSON Staff Reporter 
Pax Christi-Notre Dame, a local chapter of an interna­tional Catholic peace move­ment, will stage a "non-violent demonstration" against the policies of President Reagan during his visit to the Notre Dame campus on March 9. 
Pax Christi members and other interested students will gather in the vicinity of the Joyce ACC before Reagan's scheduled 12:30 p.m. appear­ance inside the building, said Pax Christi member Tom Esch. · Reagan will participate in a ceremony celebrating the is­suance by the U.S. Postal Ser-
Helicopter crashes; at least 8 among dead 
Associated Press 
CHICO, Texas -A military helicopter carrying at least 19 people crashed and burned in a pasture Thursday, and aut­horities said at least eight oc­
cupants  were killed  and  
several  others  seriously  
burned.  

The Army helicopter went down about 3:10p.m. near this community northwest of Fort Worth, said Wise County sheriff's officers. Nineteen to 20 people were aboard, said su­pervising dispatcher Charlsa Jenkins. 
At least eight and as many as 10 were killed, said Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Mike Cox. 
Several others suffered third-degree burns in the crash, which sparked a grass fire that was under control within a few hours, said county citations clerk Richard Evans. 
Jenkins said the copter burned on impact, and other 
see CRASH, page 4 
By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
The third place ticket of Ann Reilly, Kelly Connery and Julie Marozas in the race for Saint Mary's student govern­ment offices petitioned for a recount Thursday which resulted in the dis­covery of an 11-vote discrepancy in fa­vor of Reilly's ticket, said elections commissioner Frannie Thompson. 
A petition of 151 student signatures was submitted to the elections commit­tee by the Reilly ticket for the recount, said Thompson. 
"A candidate may demand a recount by submitting a petition with 100 stu­dent signatures to the elections com­mittee within 48 hours after the close of the election," she said. 
"When we counted them over, (Reilly) was there, along with two of her campaign members," said Thompson. "We found that there were 11 votes for the Reilly ticket that were not accounted for in the original results given last night." 
This changes the percentages for the Reilly ticket and the second place ticket of Annie Buch, Kim Sartori and Carol Mahony. The ticket of Julie Parrish, Christy Wolfe and Lisa Hill, which had 37 percent of the student vote, remained unchanged. 
"The Buch ticket officially has 30.9 percent of the total vote, while the Reilly ticket has 30.6 percent of the total vote from Tuesday's election," Thompson said. 
see RECOUNT, page 6 


Panama's president calls for Noriega's resignation 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama Panama's strongman, Gen. Manuel An­tonio Noriega, under indictment in the United States on drug trafficking charges, was ordered by the president Thursday to step down as military chief. 
The government's Radio Nacional called Panamanians to a Thursday night rally supporting Noriega at a downtown park near the National 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez Palace. President Eric Arturo Delvalle 
the civilian government of Panama, headquarters for U.S. military opera­tions in Latin America. 
Noriega has said he is innocent of all the accusations against him. There was • no immediate indication whether he would comply with Delvalle's order. 
The police chief for the Defense 
Forces,  flanked  by  colonels  and  
lieutenant  colonels,  said  on  
Panamanian  TV  that  neither  Col.  

Marcos Justine, the man named to succeed Noreiga, nor any other officer would replace Noriega. 
"He is going first," Col. Leonidas 
see PANAMA, page 4 

vice of a commemorative stamp honoring Knute Rockne, the legendary football coach. 
During the demonstration, scheduled to formally begin at 11 a.m., the students will hold banners and posters stating their views, Esch said, adding they will also distribute flyers to people going into the JACC. 
"As students of this Catholic university, we feel there are certain values (the University) should uphold. We feel the Reagan administration has violated the values that we think Notre Dame and Pax Christi should stand for,'' Esch said. 
Pax Christi-ND is a local chapter of Pax Christi USA, the national branch of the interna­tional Catholic peace move­ment. 
"We see (Reagan's) visit as a chance to name those policies and protest against them and call our country to greater jus­tice with domestic and foreign policy," said Esch. 
Some of their concerns in-


see PROTEST, page 8 

Golden Dome to be golden again 
By HEIDI SCHLUMPF News Staff 

The golden dome will get a new coat of gold this sum­
mer,  said  Don  Dedrick,  
director  of  the  physical  
plant.  

The entire project will cost · about $300,000 · said Tom Mason, vice president for business affairs. The gold it­self will cost $70,000, he said. 
"The old gold is worn through time, and it should be regilded every 25 years or so," Dedrick said. AI-
though the dome itself has not been reguilded since 

1961, the statue of Mary was regilded in 1971. 
What appears now on the surface of the the dome is actually gold primer that was applied under the gold leaf when the dome was last regilded, he said, adding that gold leaf is applied over the primer because it is more durable. 
Conrad Schmitt Studios, a Wisconsin-based company that specializes in the renewal of old buildings, will do the regilding. The com­pany will also do the renewal of the stained glass windows 


see DOME, page 4 

Of Interest 
The Women's Care Center!PregnancyHelpCenter is holding a training session for volunteers during the weekend of Marett 4. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testing, crisis counseling and community refer­rals. The session will be held on campus in the Knights of Columbus building. Contact the Women's Care Center Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m at 234-0363 for more information. 
-The Observer 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival needs ticket takers, stage crew, and many other workers for all three sessions of the festival April 8 and 9. Anyone interested should call Ken Schwartz at 283-1100. -The Observer 
Volunteers are needed to move furniture for the new shelter for the homeless in the Gilbert's building. Help is needed Saturday for several hours in the morning. To volunteer, contact Ken at 283-4001 or Mary Carol at 283­5231. -The Observer 
In recognition of Black History Month, Grace Vision will be airing the PBS six-hour mini-series "Eye on the Prize.'' This is a documentary about the Civil Rights movement from 1954 to 1965. It airs at 6 p.m. on Saturday on Channel 4 in Grace Hall. -The Observer 
CILA Mexico Project members should come to 
hear Mary Lou Doran talk about her program "Call and 
Response" on Sunday, Feb. 28 at 3 p.m. in LaFortune. 
-The Observer 
Third World Awareness Mass with Father Schneibel will be Sunday at 4:30p.m. in the Log Chapel. 
-The Observer 
Catholic Faith Series continues this Sunday and 
Tuesday evenings, Feb. 28 and March 1, from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. in Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Father Bob Kennedy will speak on "What Catholics Should Know About the Sacra­ments." -The Observer 
ProfessorSuzanneMarilleyfromthe Government Department will speak on the platforms of the presidential candidates and answer questions on Monday, Feb. 29 at 7 p.m. in the Farley Hall Middle Room. -The Observer 
''The Killing Fields,'' a documentary on Cambodia, will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. in the ETS Theater of the Center for Continuing Education as part of Third World Awareness Week. -The Observer 
Seniors wishing to try out to be Baccalaureate Mass readers must come to Sacred Heart Church at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, March 1. Readings can be picked up at the Senior Class Office. -The Observer 
FAF deadline is Sunday, Feb. 28 for the 1983-89 school 
year. Forms are available in the Financial Aid Office in 
the Administration Building. -The Observer 
Campus Bible Fellowship is holding their regular 
Bible Study tonight at 6:30 at the Campus House, 19525 
Pendle Rd., 277-8471. -The Observer 
Sophomore Literary Festival concludes this weekend. There will be a reading by Paule Marshall in the Library Auditorium tonight at 8 followed by a recep­tion. On Saturday, a conversation with Paule Marshall will be held at noon in the Library Lounge. -The Observer 
The logo contest deadline for the Collegiate Jazz Festival is Monday, Feb. 29. Entries are due in the SUB office in LaFortune Student Center. Direct questions to Dave Thornton at 287-6575 or Kevin Mundy at 283-3797. 
-The Observer 
An Tostal logo contest entries are due today at 3 
p.m. in the SUB office. The prize for the winner is $25. 
-The Observer 
AIDS information brochures will be distributed 
free of charge in the Hesburgh Library foyer from 11 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. today. -The Observer 

Design Editor . . . . . .... Joe Zadrozny Accent Layout............... Heather Hypes Design A..utant ........... Pete LaFleur Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Patrick Zande Typeaetten . . . . . . . . . . . . Becky Gunderman Sport• Copy Editor ......... Marty Strasen ................................... Mark Ridgeway Typiots.............. ...... .... .. .. .. .. Will Zamer New• Editor.. .. ...... Regis Coccia ...................................... Jennifer Conlon Copy Editor .................... Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editor ................. Janet Herold Accent Copy Editor. .... . . . Matt Murphy Photographer ..................... Mike MorP!l 
ne Otoeener (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throu&h Friday except duritla euJII and VACation periods. ne OIM!ener is published by the Students Of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions IDIIY be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2.5 per semester) by writina ne Otoeener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana46SS6. 
ne Otoeener il a member of. ne "-dd!IM Praa. AU reproduction riahts are raened. 
a· 

Technology teaches this: There's space to fill 
Ever use a Macintosh? Know anyone who's had open-heart surgery? Ever had a CAT scan done? Do you watch the network news? Called your friend in London lately? Can you use a microwave? All of these things make use of technology 
developed for the American space program. Even this newspaper, which is typeset on a Linotronic laser typesetter, is a product of space technology. 
Many people I know find it difficult to justify spending money on "pie in the sky" space ven­tures when there are homeless people on Earth who could use the money instead. They are dead wrong. 
America's space program has helped every­one on this planet. Satellites provide weather prediction, from hurricanes to droughts. They explore for oil and metals to fuel our society. They relay phone calls and television signals. 
Which is better use of our tax dollars: feeding the starving now, or exploring the technology to keep them fed and healthy in the future? 
President Reagan did a very good thing last month. (Yes, I know some of you think that is impossible.) He lent strong support to the American space effort over the next years, both in dollars and in public backing. 
It's about time. Our space program is a shambles. For several months after the shuttle disaster, we had no satellite launching capabil­ity..If our satellites fell, we had no way to replace them. No weather reports, no television relays. No warning of nuclear attack. 
More importantly, though, we are losing the 
. technological edge that goes with a strong space program. The Reagan plan for a space platform in 1993 and a fully operational station in 1997. will help. 
Movement of many portions of the program to private contract firms will help even more, given NASA's obvious inability to produce and Congress's tendency to cut space first and ask questions after the shuttle blows up. 
But it isn't enough. _ . If the arguments for a push towards space 
--technological progress, public service, crea­tion of domestic jobs --aren't enough to con­vince the anti-space crowd, perhaps this will: 
We are becoming also-rans. Other countries are not as foolish when it comes to space dollars. The Soviet Union out-
Mark 0
Mclaughlin 
Projects Manager 

spends the United States by at least 2 to 1. European nations have banded together to·build the Ariane rocket system, which can launch satellites more cheaply than a government sub­sidized Space Shuttle. China and Japan have both announced long-range space programs de­signed to produce results -more than we have done. 
We talk about having a space station in 10 years, which really means 15 in NASAese. The Soviet Union has one now. It doesn't have color TV or Soviet schoolteachers in it, but it works. 
The Soviets are talking about Mars by the year 2010. 
Perhaps the recent push from the White House will wake American society up. Perhaps the Soviets will pull another Sputnik. Though they are cagey enough not to pull flashy stunts, they are farther ahead of us now than they ever were in the 1950s. 
Maybe we'll wake up and smell the coffee before Japan starts offering to sell us space­manufactured drugs to cure our cancer patients. Maybe not. But at least we'll have kept our taxes down. 
................................................................ 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing

11 LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 

II 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
·AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 
directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall 
Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M. Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
Main Floor $6, Balcony S5 Tockets are available at Students & Senior Citizens $4 Washongton Hall Ticket Office on W9d., Thurs., Sun. only. Weekdays Noon to 6 P.M. MasterCard/Visa orders 239-5957 
•· 


Philippines improving under Aquino, says consul 
By KEVIN BOUGHAL In a lecture given as part of several of her relatives running as a tough, no-nonsense admin­until the 1990s. "The country News Staff Filipino Awareness Week, for office lost by large margins. istrator," he explained. lost about 10 years of develop­Espinas said these elections He believes that "the people Perhaps the most impressive me~t in the early 80s," said 
The situation in the Philip­were "relatively peaceful elec­are voting out dynasty." accomplishment of the Aquino Espmas.pines is improving both politi­tions." Approximately 100 administration is the improve­The failure of the sugar mar­cally and economically under people were killed, but in the Another common occurence ment of the economy, he said, ket and the destruction of the the leadership of President last local elections, held in 1972, in Philippine society is the because her desire to attract coconut crop by a typhoon hurt Corazon Aquino, said Eleuterio over 1000 died, he said. ownership of the utilities by a businesses has caused the eco­this mostly agriculturalEspinas, the consul general of private family. Under Aquino, nomy to climb at an impressive country. The export of the Philippine Cousulate in The Philippines have a his­the government sells shares for rate. manufactured products in­Chicago. tory of "dynasty," where the the utilities so that there cannot creased this year, and the 
The local elections in the president's relatives get be a monopoly, he said. There are many new jobs and Philippines are expecting a Philippines are the first sign elected to office soon after the Espinas credits President inflation is down, he said, but fourth straight quarter of a that the country is once again president does. Espina ex­Aquino with the progress added that the per capita in­rising economy, Espinas said, a free and democratic society, plained this was not the case toward democracy in the come is not expected to reach so the government is very op­Espinas said. for President Aquino, because Philippines. "She has emerged where it was at in the late 1970s timistic about the future. 
Students discuss views on minorities in meeting 
0 
This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound® to the beach, the mountains or your hometown. ---For $49.50 each way, you and your friends 
By DAVID T. LEE Staff Reporter 
Students expressed varied views on minorities at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in an informal discussion Thursday night at Saint Mary's. 
About 45 students and faculty attended "Student to Student ­-Minority Voices," a discus­sion marking the end of Unity Week, sponsored by Peacemakers, a Saint Mary's organization to promote awareness of minorities in the community. "Because people come from a more homogenous background, it may be difficult . . . to break through that homogenity," said freshman Tracy O'Reilly. 
"Saint Mary's has to do something about the lack of minorities," said one black stu­dent. "Everybody is into diver­sity ... but what are you going to do about it?" said the stu­dent. 
"As a college, there is a re­sponsibility to help open up people's minds," said junior Jacqueline Paez. "It is such a 

will have a great time when you GO GREYHOUND 
shame somebody would go through four years . . . and still be so closeminded," she said. 
"We are being cheated," said senior Sara Schoeneman. "In classes that I've taken, (minorities) could have added a whole lot more. We're sup­posed to be preparing for the world, and we're here in this bubble." 
reveal ignorance and a lack of exposure to minorities. "Everyone is busy doing their own things," said one stu­dent from Kenya. "When you are a minority, you don't have anyone. 
SHRIMP THE WAY YOU LIKE IT. 


minorities stay in school for later minorities," said South Bend resident Maylee Johnson. 
"We can't attract minorities without the faculty," said one black student. "In order to bring more minority students here, you need role models," she added. 
According to Paez, one of the problems is ignorance. 
O'Reilly said little comments "not meant to be negative" 

Professor Cyriac Pullapilly said minorities face "a lot more work among students in how they are accepted in the dorm and in the classes." In 1970 about 50 minority students enrolled at Saint Mary's, but nearly all of them left the school before graduation, he said. 
"It's important that 
Your Choice 
...of entree includes our Salad Buffet and your choice of any one of our sides. Daily from 5 p.m., Sat. & Sun. from 4 p.m. 
Shrimp Stir Fry Almond Shrimp Blackened Shrimp Cajun Stuffed Shrimp Sweet & Sour Shrimp Shrimp Creole Fried Shrimp Shrimp De)onghe 
e~~~~·" 
Wltil~ 
...e~ 

go Greyhound. And leave the driving to us~ 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 

Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., Trailways Lines and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Fare is each way per person based on round-trip purchase. Offer effective 2115188 through 4/25/88. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. Greyhound also offers an unlimited mileage fare for $59.00 each way. Some restrictions apply. ~ 1988 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 

Panama 
continued from page 1 

Macias said, referring to Del­valle. 
"None of us wants the (Panamanian military) com­mand; the commander stays, and we all stay. The president goes," Macias said. 
The military officers were grouped at the central garrison of the Defense Forces, a short distance from the former Panama Canal Zone. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater issued a statement in Washington saying, "We understand that President Delvalle today dis­missed Gen. Noriega from his position as commander of the Panama Defense Forces." 
"At this time, we want to reiterate our unqualified sup­port for civilian constitutional rule in Panama. There is but one legitimate sovereign au­thority in Panama, and that is the Panamanian people exer­cising their democratic right to vote and elect their leadership in a free society." 
Washington called for Noriega to resign after U.S. grand juries in Miami and Tampa, Fla., indicted him and others on drug trafficking charges on Feb. 5. 
The Observer I Mike Moran

Wheels of fire 
Kurt Ragis wheels back to Holy Cross Hall after eating dinner. On his skateboard, he can escape from South Dining Hall in half the time it 
takes the other Hogs. 
Crash 
continued from page 1 
helicopters and medical per­
sonnel  were en  route  to  the  
scene,  12  miles  north  of  
Decatur.  

Initial reports indicated the copter was from Fort Hood in central Texas, but Fort Hood Capt. Tim Vane said it was not from there. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
Dome 
continued from page 1 

at Sacred Heart Church. "It'll take quite awhile be­cause they have to prepare the surface and scrape off the oxidized and weathered gold," Dedrick said. Elaborate scaffolding will be erected so the workers can reach the dome. The dome is 158 feet above the ground at its highest point. The workers must wash the dome with solvent and degrease it. Then they will cover the dome with a gold­tinted metal primer, Dedrick said. A sticky sizing will be applied to the surface of the dome to hold the more than 3,500 square feet of 23 karat gold leaf. Last­ly, the entire regilded surface will be hand buffed, he said. Bernard Gruenke, president 
of Conrad Schmitt Studios, es­timates that the total weight of gold necessary to regild the dome will only be a few pounds. 
The gold comes on tissue paper backed rolls that are three and a half inches wide. Placed end to end, the rolls of gold leaf would be three miles long, said Gruenke. 
The regilding should take 12 to 15 weeks and be finished by the fall of 1988. "The weather is a critical factor in exterior gilding," said Gruenke, "High humidity, rain, wind or low temperatures could temporar­ily stop the project." 
The Notre Dame dome has 
GREETINGS FROM AUSTRIA! 
THE FOLLOWING MESSAGES HAVE BEEN RECEIVED FROM STUDENTS IN AUSTRIA SINCE JANUARY 
I miss my Flower Beaver Child! I love you very much. Your sister in 
Christ.  uttle L.  
Kristen Gruber: Love, Katie.  SWIM-SWIM-SWIM!  Congratulations!  I miss you!  
Badinites-Thanks for all the notes. you! Love Katie  You guys are the  best.  I miss  

Hey, Sandra ... I miss you and I love you! Happy Belated Birthday and Merry Christmas. God Bless You! Deine Schwester. Heidi 
Wardly: Hey Dude! Greetings from lnnsbruck. Exciting times at ND!! Skiing is awesome. 
We miss partying with you guys! But it's very legal here! See you soon!! Katrina & Michelle 
Hello to everyone at SMC/ND from the land of skiing. More specif­ically -from Elizabeth Ehret. 
Sorry I haven't been writing very much but I miss you all and hope you are having a blast this year! Elizabeth Ehret 
Dan Skendz: What an awesome brother you are! Thanks for all the letters. Wish you were here. I love you and I miss you. Love, Mary Beth 
Chris Componovo (Alias: Crutches). You couldn't have really hurt your leg again -could you? 
Hope it heals quickly-in time for an incredible track session! See you next year! Mary Beth 
Gon Sanchez. I can't believe you finally called! It was great talk­ing to you! But, what will Dad say when he sees the bill? Thanks for calling! Mary Beth 
been a landmark since 1882, when it was completed above the administration building. A less elaborate dome topped the old administration building, which was destroyed by fire in 1879. 
The cost of regilding the dome and statue and refurnish­ing the dome with a corrosion­resistant alloy in 1961 was $50,000, said Mason. The dome and the statue of Mary have been regilded eight times from 1886 to 1961, at intervals ranging from five to 13 years. 

Student Business Board 
Applications for 
Manager Positions 
in 
Adworks 

The Cellar 
& Irish Gardens are now available 
Pick up applications in the Student Government Offices 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Deadline: Friday, March 4 at 5:00pm 
AOWOI><S 

Melissa, Thanks for all your help, hints. and support. I hope you 
have enjoyed your semester back at Notre Dame. As you know, 
life in lnnsbruck is wonderful! Love. Monika 
To all my Walshite Friends: I hope your first semester was exciting 
and successful. I'd love to hear about it. Have a great break. 
Love, Monica 
Celeste Aquino-You are such a NUT! Thanks for your letters and try not to get busted anymore, or at least wait until I get back! 
Love, Diz 

Hey Megan Scheckler-don't keep yourself too busy with school. chorale. and BOB, and write me more often. Happy Easter. Love. your brother, Greg 
Steve Polansky, Uked your quote in the Scholastic, and I'm "doing great" too! From the Austrian Alps, Greg 
Kevin Kohl, Hope single life is treating you well these days (I know it is!). Greg 
Brian Bozo-lay, Keep Kevin and Steve in line...not too much shav­ing cream on the doors of St. Ed's yet? Hoping all's well. Greg 
Yo Basses!!! ND Basses awesome. awesome, awesome zoinks! Hairman. 

ADWC>RICS 

-------------~-------------------------~----·------··---~----------~---------~­
Friday, February 26, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Security Beat 
Tuesday, Feb. 23 
9:22 p.m. -A set of car keys was found in the D2 Parking Lot and turned into Security. 
II :23 p.m. -Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire Dept. in responding to a fire alarm at the Morris Inn. A pull box station was pulled by an unidentified person. 
Wednesday, Feb.24 
I: 15 p.m. -A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his class ring, 8 CDs, and his checkbook from his room sometime between 12:15 and 12:25 
a.m. His loss is valued at $500. 
Thursday, Feb. 25 
I:35 a.m. -A University Village resident reported that his car had been broken into and his gym bag, stereo, and a pair of sneakers had been stolen. His loss is estimated at $410. 
I:55 p.m. -A South Bend resident reported losing her light purple purse at the Notre Dame bus stop. 
4:50 p.m.-A bookbag was found on the Lyons Basketball court and turned into Security. 

, 90 :;A~URING ~~0 
~Q

IHE MODERN DAY SAl NTS 'If~ 
A Chicago based Warm-up band for The BoDeans and Blues Great, Ko Ko Taylor 
ALSO APPEARING AS A WARM-UP 
THE GRIND 

STARRING NOTRE DAM~ JUNIOR JOHN GRI~FIN 
$ 5 ADMISSION·-21 I.D. REQUIRED 
CASH OAR WITH BEER, WINE AND SOFT DRINKS PROVIDF.D
4 

ADMISSION INCLUDES ONE ENTRY 
For the Followmg Pr1zes 

1sT pRIzE ­
2 SPRINGSTE~N TICKETS IN CHICAGO-MARCH 16 
2ND PRIZE-$50GIFTCERTIFICATETOMACRI'SQELI 
3RD PRIZE -$25 GIFT CERTIFICATE TO BRIDGET'S 
MITCHELL'S INDIANA CLUB 
J/0 West Jefferson Blvd in South Bend 
Soviets withdraw missiles from GDR 
Associated Press 
BISCHOFSWERDA, East Germany -Communist offi­cials and the state-run press said Thursday that Soviet troops began withdrawing SS­12 nuclear missiles from this town, while hundreds of people waved flags and showered troops with gifts. 
Women pressed flowers on 150 Soviet soldiers, and children gave them books, candy and other gifts in an or­chestrated, two-hour ceremony at the train station. The troops have been here four years. 
As the train loaded with 32 canvas-wrapped containers pulled away, the soldiers waved at the crowd and pressed the bouquets to the windows. 



110 N. Whittaker • New Buffalo, Ml 49117 (616) 469-0801 
Extraordinary sportswear 
tor men and women 
50% off on our Eileen West dresses 50% off on all men's pants, outwear 50% off on gorgeous handknit sweaters 

STUDENT ESCAPES FROM INSTITUTION! 
University authorities suspect Ft. Lauderdale, but he may have fled to any of these Midway destinations: 
MIDWAY AIRUNES'A Atlanta Boston Chicago IModway) Cleveland Columbus Dallas/Ft. Worth Denver Des Moines Detroit Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers Indianapolis Kansas City Las Vegas Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Nassau New Orleans New York (LaGuardia) Omaha Orlando Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh (Ell. 311188) St. Croix St. Thomas Tampa Washington, DC (Natoonal) West Palm Beach MIDWAY CONNECnON~ Benton Harbor Bloomington/Normal Champaign/Urbana Dubuque Elkhart Grand Rapids Green Bay Indianapolis Madison Muskegon Peoria South Bend Springfield, IL Traverse City Waterloo 

Sporting flip-flops and sunglasses, the student was last seen turning cartwheels through the airport, where he caught the Midway Connection" to convenient Chicago Midway Airport. Once in Chicago, he is believed to have hopped a quick, hassle-free flight to another Midway destination. 
Campus officials attribute his departure to an early case of spring break, as numerous faculty members recall hearing Jimmy Buffet coming from his walkman. • 
To plan an escape of your own, call1-800-621-5700, or call your travel agent. 
Midwa Connection· 
c 1988 M1dwnv Atrhne!'. Inc 

Don't drink and drive 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ASSISTANT PRODUCTION MANAGER 
For further Information contact Bernadette ShiltS'Melissa Warnke at The Observer (239-5303) 
Are you interested? 
-interesled In helping lo manage and 
account for 
$3PO.~OO??? 
If you are••. 
II you are a SOPHMORE BUSINESS MAJOR who enjoys working with 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU 
•• !h8' STUDENT BODY ASSISTANT TREASURER!!! 

TI1c Studcnl Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Siudcnl Body ~asurcr in 
disbursing fund' for: Student Government 
SUB Holts clubo and organizations 
TI1is posi1ion will prepare you Applicauons arc available in 1hc ror becoming the Siudcnl Body Treasurer's office,2nd noor of Treasurer the following year. La Fortune, 12:30 -4:30p.m. 
applications are due on Wed. March 2 by 4:00p.m. 
ANY QUESTIONS? 
Contact Michelle Zinser at 239-7417 

page 6 The Observer Friday, February 26, 1988 
in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn Moderately Informal Attire 
We Will Be Recruiting on Tuesday, March 1 
Recount 
continued from page 1 
Reilly said she circulated the petition because she felt the re­ported one percent difference between her ticket and the Buch ticket was close enough that a possible discrepancy could change the results. 
"I went in there thinking that we would discover one vote here, one vote there, but when we found that it was 11 votes that were not accounted for last night, I realized that the sys­tem is flawed somewhere," Reilly said. 
She also said that had con­templated planning to petition for a revote because she only needed two votes to tie for the run-off with the other two tick­ets. 
Thompson said run-o(fs are determined by raw numbers and the Buch ticket had· a greater number of votes than Reilly's; the run-off will go as planned Friday in the Saint Mary's dining hall. 
"We divide the ballots into piles of 10, which possibly ex­plains that the ballots could have been put in another pile," she said. "Human error is un­fortunate in this situation, and under these conditions, this kind of thing can occur." 
Reilly said that the system is flawed because it allows for a potential problem by giving the student government people manning the polls too much leeway and because there is no checking system to keep an ac­curate count of actual voters. 
"The people who deserve to be in the run-off should be in it, and if there were other flaws in the voting system, I didn't want to be denied the opportu­nity to be in it because of them," Reilly said. 
"The problem with elections at Saint Mary's is that there just aren't any actual num­bers," she said. "They should count the roster votes to deter­mine the number of voters in­stead· of simply by the number of student body ballots," said Reilly. 
"There needs to be a change somewhere in the system in or­der to insure that these flaws do not change the course of the elections," she said. 
Kelly Connery, one of Reil­ly's running mates, said they began collecting signatures for a petition for a revote, but realized a revote is not what they wanted. 
"The complications of the current system made us con­sider calling for a revote, but upon re-examining the situa­tion, we decided that a change in the system of voting is what we really wanted," she said. "We lost fair and square, and we accept defeat." . 
Connery added that they only hope that this will teach Saint Mary's students that every vote counts and that there is a great need to change the pres­ent voting system. 
Voting for the run-off be­
~---Ni)-AVE._APTS.---, 
1  l~arly Bird Special  I  
1  Now· renting for Fall  I  
1 2  Bedrooms  completely furnished  I  

I Sign up before break and Call I I .. receive a lOo/o discount 234-6647 I 

Separated from their mates, mittens and gloves lie entrance of LaFortune Student Center, is the home in a forlorn pile. The information desk, near the west for the misplaced mittens and other lost items. 
tween the Buch ticket, which officially had 30.9 percent of the total vote taken Tuesday, and the Parrish ticket which had 37 percent of the vote will take place today in the dining hall. 
LARGE ONE TOPPING ORIGINAL STYLE PIZZA for 
$7.99 
277-5880
~s 

Pizza.. 52920 U.S. 31 N
V Eat In, Carry Out, or Delivery. 
Not valid in combination with any other offers or the Gott refill­able. Valid at participating locations. EXP. 2129188. NO CASH VALUE. 
Sears Roebuck & Co. Will Host a Reception on Monday, February 29 from 7,to 9 p.m. 
and Wednesday, March 2 in the Placement Center 

Swaggart's leaders meet to decide punishment 
Associated Press Church spokeswoman Juleen 
Turnage said the meeting at 
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. -The the church's international 
hierarchy of the Assemblies of headquarters was likely to be 
God met Thursday to consider long and that it was unlikely a 
toughening the punishment of decision would be announced television evangelist Jimmy Thursday.Swaggart after an admitted Swaggart has not made a prostitute said she had per­public appearance since Sun­formed pornographic acts for day, wher: he tearfully told his him for about a year. congregation in Baton Rouge, 
La., that he had committed un­
The church's Executive specified sexual sins, and was Presbytery was to consider a not expected to meet with recommendation by its church officials Thursday. Louisiana district that Swag­Swaggart, whose ministry gart, the denomination's most brought in $142 million in 1986, prominent minister, be barred is the denomination's most from preaching for three prominent evangelist with fire­months and undergo counsel­and-brimstone broadcasts in ing during a supervised two­more than 100 countries. He has year rehabilitation period. been known for his harsh About half the people calling denunciation of sexual lapses the denomination this week by other preachers, including have criticized that recommen­PTL ministry founder Jim Bak­dation as too lenient. ker. 
The Observer I Mike Moran

A common complaint 
Like many Notre Dame students, senior Matt Murphy Senior Formal, which will be held April 15-17 in the says, "I need a date." He needs someone for the Hyatt Regency Chicago. Bids are on sale March 1-3. 
Leakey: Evolution no threat to religion 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Paleoanthropologist Richard Leakey says the majority of 

USE YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE TO GO PLACES 
• 
Whatever your personal and professional goals, you can probably get there faster m the NAVY Our vanous officer programs offer inter· nat1onal scope and world-recogmzed prest1ge. 

• 
Navy leader3hip and execut1ve management traimng go hand·ln·hand to prepare you for an exciting role as a Naval Off1cer. 

• 
Upward Mobility is more than JUSt a promise; 


·it's a reality. Promotions come regularly as your experience and knowledge increase. Many of to· day's leaders in business. government and the professions have successfully completed a ca· rear as a Naval Officer. 



Your options and opportun· ities are as varied and chal· lenging as your interests. 
Navy Officers are: 
• 
Aviators who fly F-14 TOMCATS 

• 
Engineers on Nuclear Submarines 

• 
Computer Specialists 

• 
Doctors 

• 
Business Managers 

• 
Procurement and Fiscal 

Managers • C1vil Engmeers 

• 
Lawyers 

• 
Meteorologists and much more 



• 30 days paid vacation each year allows you to enJOY some of the fnnge benefitS and travel• Naval Officers rece1ve pay and allowances ppportuM1es available through the Navy.

worthy of a professional and. thanks to extra benefits such as free dental and med1cal care, 
• All of th1s is just a part of the story: only a Naval housmg, and comm1ssary and exchan\je pnvc· 
Off1cer who has expenenced 11 for himself can tell leges. you keep more of what you earn. 
you what 1t's really l1ke 


NAVY REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE AT THE FEDERAL JOB FAIR 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
ON MARQl 2, 1988 from 12-4 p.m. 
FOR MORE INFORI'll\TION, CALL 'IULL­
~· 
1-800-527-8836 


HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY SUZANNE 
LOVE YOU, 
MOM, DAD, & 
VINNIE 

creat 
copies. Creat people. 
Copies Sc 
Alit!''"'" fint tOO CllfJI'Sirom.... ~··J. lht ,... 1ft IIAli 
PRICE. If""' nmiCOfJIOI.,... nmlliniu>• 
f~~·MW'J.~ij 21 
SWTII IEHD. IN *57 
Telephone 271-0398 
YOUR CAMPAIGN READQUATERS 
Christians around the world don't have a problem accepting the biological theory of evolu­tion. 
"I'm speaking of evolution, about our biological origins and the very idea that we are des­cended from forms different to ourselves," Leakey said. 
Leakey said that in his travels, "within the broad spectrum of Christian fol­lowers across the world, the greatest majority are comfort­able with biology and the bio­logical explanation for human origins." 
Since the time of Charles Darwin, however, people have been uncomfortable with the idea that the human race is closely related to the great apes and the chimpanzee, even though man has 98.5 percent of the same genetic material as the chimp, said Leakey. 
Leakey, the Kenya-born son of Louis and Mary Leakey, referred to what he called a "Caucaso-centric" preoccupa­tion with seeking a human origin outside Africa, in a speech Wednesday. 

---~ ~ -~ -------~ 
PERMANENTLY CHANGE EATING HABITS ELIMINATE OBSESSION WITH FOOD CREATE NEW RELATIONSHIP WITH FOOD LOSE WEIGHT WITHOUT DIETING by: AUNA PRESTON, Ph.D Specializing In Women's Issues For Information Call 232-5843 ·'ALTERNATNES COONCELING CENTER Also: Women Who Love Too Much Workshop  

'J!!1 
The Observer I Mike Moran
Punching preparation 
Sophomore Richard Jennings gets taped up by Bouts. The Bengal Bouts will begin this Sunday, and "Sweet C." Robinson in preparation for the Bengal the proceeds from it go to help feed the poor.
U. S S e c ret a ry tlfl!!!!!e!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
of Education gives states poor grades 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Education Secretary William Bennett gave the states mediocre grades Thursday on an annual report card that showed dropout rates up slightly, col­lege entrance test scores level and spending higher than ever. 
"The news is not what it should be. Test scores are in a dead stall," Bennett said as he unveiled two wall charts crammed with statistics ranking the states .on tests, graduation rates, teacher pay and other measures. 
"In saying that I am disap­pointed, I think I speak for the American people," Bennett told reporters. "We're paying top dollar to educate our children, but we're sure not getting top return." 
Mary Hatwood Futrell, pres­ident of the National Education Association, the nation's lar:g­est teachers union, said in an interview, "The time has come to halt the wall chart charade and for people to sit down and really talk . " 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For further information contact 
Kevin Becker at The Observer (239-5303) 
Copy Early Copy Late Copy Weekends 

Creat copies. Creat people. 
18187 State Road 23 South Bend, Indiana 46637 Telephone 219 271-0398 

Protest 
continued from page 1 
elude the growing disparity be­tween the rich and the poor in the U.S., the largest military build-up in peacetime history, the support of the Contras and the Iran-Contra affair, he said. 
The group also plans to spon­sor a prayer meeting at the Lyons Hall Chapel at 7:30 the night before the president's ar­rival. Several members will give testimonies on their beliefs and positions during the event, Esch said. The meeting, he said,. will prepare them to handle the following day's demonstration in a "peaceful 
and reflective manner."  
Esch  said  University  offi­ 
cials  have  approved  the  

demonstration. 
"Rex Rakow (director of campus security) has said he's willing to work with us to help us demonstrate." The demonstrators, however, will 
SIGN OFF FROM HUMDRUM PART-TIME JOBS. SIGN ON WITH SIGNATURE. 
Thursday, March 3 4PMto8PM The Signature Group 851 S. Marietta Monroe Industrial Park 
(2 blocks west of Farmers Market on Lincoln Way East.) 
Grab onto a great opportunity! Great things await you at The Signature Group... lf you want to earn much more per hour and learn a valuable new skill, don't miss this very special Open House . 
.The Signature Group is a premier direct response marketer of In­surance and Consumer Clubs. If you have good reading skills and a pleasant telephone voice, we'll pay you while you learn to market our Clubs to a nationally established customer base. 
• 
NO SALES EXPERIENCE IS NECESSARY! $4.50 per hour with your first increase after only 8 weeks and another at six months. 

• 
VARIETY OF SHIFTS AVAILABLE TO FIT YOUR SCHEDULE: 


Monday thru Friday 9:50AM to 3 PM-perfect for moms with school age children 
-Thursday & Friday 5 to 10 PM, Saturday 10 AM to 6 PM & every other Wednesday 5 to 10 PM 
OR Monday & Tuesday 5 to 10 PM & Sunday 11 AM to 7 PM & every other Wednesday 5 to 10 PM-ideal for students and moonlighters 
Come see our modern offices and equipment-learn how you can earn paid holidays & vacations, w1n contests and receive a Montgomery Ward discount, too. CALL 236-4206 for further directions. Equal Op­portunity Employer M/F 
not be permitted to go inside the JACC, Esch added. 
A local group, calling itself the "Ad Hoc Committee to Greet Reagan," is planning a protest march from Leeper Park in South Bend to the JACC on March 9. 
The march will be "a mobilization of the different people that have suffered un­der Reagan and thQse who ~re opposed to the direction of Reagan's foreign policy," said Lee Gloser of South Bend, a member of the committee. 
The group will mainly protest Reagan's recommen­dation for cuts in social welfare programs and his support for 
U.S. aid to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua, Gloser said. 
Another committee member, Marece Neagu of South Bend, said it is difficult to estimate how many people will partici­pate in the march because it will take place during working hours. She said, however, that she expects 100 to 500 people to join them. 
Happy 21st Birthday Jersey Joe! 
Love, 
Karen, Susan, Gretchen, Sarah, Liz, Pam, Mary, Gianna, Lisa & Cindy 

SIGNATURE 


Viewpoint
Friday, February 26, 1988 page 9 
ODN 

As Third World Awareness Week comes to an end, you may be wondering just who organized its many events. ABC? JPW? OMD? Since few students on campus are familiar with the true sponsor of Third World Awareness Week--the Overseas Developmental Network, ODN for short--you might find the following description of ODN and its activities very enlightening. 
Joanne Wa Ish 
guest column 

ODN is a national, student-run or­ganization of campus groups which seeks to educate students in issues of international development. Dedicated to involving young people in the battle against world hunger, poverty and in­justice, it promotes educational activi­ties like Third World Awareness Week. But that's not all. ODN also links campus groups to village-based, self­help projects in third world countries. ODN provides campus groups with lists 
battles human injustices 
of projects in countries such as Bangladesh, Kenya and Nicaragua. Students in the groups then get to­gether, select one specific project from the lists and agree to sponsor it. The students then donate sums of money anywhere between $200 to $500 to the project and establish a correspondence with the villagers whom their money benefits. 
The Notre Dame branch of ODN, since its creation in January 1986, has contributed to three such development projects. First, in the fall of 1987, it aided Arc en Ciel, a nonprofit organi­zation for the mainstreaming of hand­icapped and disabled people into soci­ety in Lebanon. Naji Boutros and Ronnie Karam, two Lebanese ex­change students then attending Notre Dame, informed Notre Dame's ODN branch that the handicapped in Lebanon are generally not permitted to live independent lives; instead, they are kept isolated in hospitals and insti­tutions. To help solve this injustice, the Notre Dame group contributed money to Arc en Ciel. The funds were used to purchase sewing machines and yarn for the village, and with this much-needed financial boost, Arc en Ciel is currently thriving. The Lebanese handicapped there are making religious icons, sweaters, pottery and other craft items to sell, and all the while they are learn­ing skills they can later use to obtain normal factory jobs outside the village. 
Notre Dame's ODN branch didn't stop there. In the spring of 1987, stu­dents contributed $1100 to a second vil­lage, Los Condes, Santiago, Chile. The money was used to provide villagers with construction materials for two giant ovens and kitchen facilities, so that freshly baked bread could be sold at low prices to the needy. And the Notre Dame group is currently helping to fund a fencing and library project in Mvuma, Zimbabwe. ODN had donated $1600 raised from aT-shirt sale and con­cession stand at the November 14 Ala­bama game to the Muwani Elementary School. The school plans to use part of the money to construct a fence around its vegetable garden to protect it from destruction by wild animals. The remainder of the money will be put to use in establishing a school library; so far, Muwani needs construction materi­als for the library building as well as books and teacher education materials. 
By now you probably have a much better idea of what ODN does. Perhaps you are wondering how you, too, can become involved. Although Third World Awareness Week is nearly over, there are still a few events in which you can participate: catch tonight's showing of "The Killing Fields" in the CCE ETS Theatre at 7 p.m. or attend the Saturday brunch. And watch for a campus-wide book drive for books to send to the Muwani School. Of course, ODN is always looking for enthusiastic new members too! Feel free to stop in at any meeting and see what the Over­seas Developmental Network is all about. 
Joanne P. Walsh is a freshman cur­rently enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 
j______ _____----1
P_.o_._B_o_x_a 
Observer shows lack of judgement 
Dear Editor: 
Your newspaper of Feb. 23, 1988, carried three half-page advertisements for American Express, The Notre Dame Finance Club, and Fidelity Mag­azine. Presumably you felt that accept­ing the Fidelity advertising was no dif­ferent from your acceptance of the others. Unless, of course, the technical concern of having to print lurid red blood splashes counted as a difference. If this presumption on my part is cor­rect, then you are guilty of no more than a lack of professionalism and an immaturity of judgement which need not cost you anything in you protected and privileged position here at Notre Dame. Were your newspaper operating under more real business conditions, such lack of common sense discrimina­tion would have serious consequences. 
But assuming that some thought did go into your decision to accept the Fidelity advertisement, then your newspaper has given grave offence. The death of Father Neils Rasmussen, a respected professor at this Univer­sity, was a traumatic event for many people, both among faculty and stu­dents. The editor of Fidelity magazine has seen fit to exploit this event for his own ideological ends. That the issue of this magazine which is advertised in your pages does so in a manner which slanders the good name of Fr. Rasmus­sen, the Notre Dame Theology Depar­tment and the University as a whole, can scarcely have escaped your edito­rial attention. By sanctioning the publication of the Fidelity advertise­ment in The Observer you confer legitimacy, even "Notre Dame" legitimacy, upon the infamous cam-
Doonesbury 
paign of Fidelity magazine, and you as­
sociate the campus newspaper with 
rank innuendo and slander. 
The right to freedom of expression 

does not excuse poor judgement or sub­
stitute for a code of professional ethics. 
No doubt Fidelity magazine has its code 
of journalistic ethics. The Observer 
presumably has its. But can one tell the 
difference? 
Brother Donal Leader The Presbytery February 24, 1988 
Women can aid in own protection 

Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to Brian Chap­man's letter in the Friday, Feb. 19 Ob­server. He wrote in response to some St. Mary's students who wrote about the St. Mary's Security Department. Sure, there's a line between protecting yourself and expecting others to do it for you. However, I believe if more wo­men took the time to protect them­selves, and utilize the security services around them, there would be fewer as­saults, abductions, rapes, murders, and even fewer people freezing to death. 
Just last Friday at 1 a.m., as my best friend was shopping in Kroger's in Ann Arbor, a man broke into her car and hid in the backseat. When my friend got back into the car and began driving, the man popped out from behind the seat, and told her how desparate and lonely he was. He had the full intention of raping my friend. Fortunately, my friend began to drive faster, which con­fused the man. As she got up to 40 m.p.h., she jumped out of the car. Her only intention was to get away from this man. Some students were driving in the other direction, and picked up my friend (who, surprisingly only 


50 HOW'!?W£; MAK£ (}{fT, 
scraped her hands), and took her to the police. The man in her car steered her car up a curb and ran away. 
My friend never locks her car doors, except when I am with her and I nag her to do it. She usually checks the backseat before getting in, but because she had been studying for two days straight, she didn't think to do it. 
When someone warns you not to go anywhere late at night you think, "Why should I have to worry? Just because I happen to be a female? Besides, those things could never happen to me." Well, it can happen; and it happens to women everywhere, everyday. 
A lot of men and too many women cannot understand why some women think twice before going out alone, late at night. They think they're just being wimpy, weak and frail little girls. If only people would really think about the danger they are putting themselves into. Take for example the parking lots here on campus. They are so poorly lit, anything could happen, and it does. I 
Garry Trudeau 
would rather have someone call me to get some other people to meet her in the parking lot late at night, than have something happen as a result of this attitude. Maybe our Security depart­ments could arrange some kind of es­cort service for one or two girls coming to or leaving from campus late at night. 
I used to be annoyed and offended by the use of the Detex cards in the wo­men's dorms. Why do only the women's dorms have them? It's another blatant attempt by the University to separate the sexes, isn't it? No it isn't, because women have to think about protecting themselves differently than men. There is a greater threat against women, and women and men really need to take that threat seriously. Protection is a neces­sary precaution, and our Security de­partments could certainly aid in that protection. 
Anne Bruns Breen-Phillips Hall February 21, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"The only way for a rich man to be healthy Is b y exercise and abstinence, to live as if he were poor." 
William Templer 

-------.-----­
Viewpoint 
Friday, February 26, 1988

page 10 
P.O. Box Q 

Bengals fight for good cause 
Dear Editor: 
The 1988 Bengal Bouts Boxing Tourn­ament begins this Sunday. For those of you unfamiliar with the tournament, this will be the 58th annual round of boxing matches held to raise money for the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh, India. The Bengal Bouts were founded in 1931 by Dominic J. Napolitano, better known by bouters as Nappy, and better known to the missions as a saint for the money he and his boxers raised to feed the needy over the years. He was acting director until 1981 and director emeritus until his death in 1986. His phi­losophy on the Bouts was, "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished," and all participants are champions. 
Approximately one hundred Notre Dame students have been working ex­tremely hard for the past five weeks, conditioning in the bitter cold, diligently showing up to be coached in technique and strategy and honing their boxing skills in anticipation of the Bouts. Boxing is a highly controversial sport. It is deemed brutal, and many physicians are trying to prove that it inevitably leads to brain damage. It is not a sport for the faint of heart--al­though it is a sport. The Bengal Bouts strictly follow amateur standards-­three two-minute rounds, headgear, heavily padded gloves and, above all, excellect coaching teamed with expe­rienced referees--all to reduce the pos­sibility of injury. 
Come support your classmates, hal­lmates and friends. Tickets are five dol­lars covering the quarterfinals, semi­finals and finals--Sunday, Wednesday and Friday next week. Ask a friend who's boxing or buy them in the dining hall. Boxing fan or not, all proceeds are for a good cause, so even consider buying a ticket as a donation if you'd rather not come. But for the faint of heart, you'll be missing the culmination of a lot of hard work and sacrifice, pure one-on-one competition between some of Notre Dame's finest student­athletes--win, lose or draw. 
Greg D. Rowe Off-campus February 23, 1988 

Observer likened to tabloid 
Dear Editor: 
I take issue with the advertisement you ran in the Feb. 23 issue of the Ob­server for Fidelity magazine. That ad­vertisement is such a glaring example of false information capitalizing on sen­sationalism and hearsay, that I have to question your policies and indeed your basic common sense in allowing such a piece of trash to be printed in the Observer! Not only does the Fidelity ad smear the memory of Father Ras­mussen, but it also smears the entire Notre Dame community. I am ex­tremely upset that the Observer would print such garbage. I believe that you should print an official apology to the Notre Dame community for printing that advertisement. 
I am also very concerned about your recent tendencies toward sen­sationalism in reporting, and now, in the advertising you accept and print. Does the Observer need to become an­other National Enquirer? I hope not. 
A small amount of common sense and some basic Christian charity on the part of the editorial board would serve you well, and is obviously needed. I urge that you learn some soon! 
Eugene Vavrick Moreau Seminary February 24, 1988 
Fidelity ad 
lacks taste 
Dear Editor: 
I was appalled at the lack of respect, compassion and taste that Fidelity Magazine's advertisement displayed. Putting aside any of the beliefs that this organization holds, it was completely tasteless for them to use this man's pain to sell a magazine. One tasteless para­graph can't even begin to explain his struggle or the complexity of his life, or anybody's life for that matter. The man is dead and therefore not even around to defend himself. It seems ridiculous to me that The Observer is not allowed to print the names of some Bookstore Basketball teams that are considered tasteless, and yet this sort of exploitation is allowed. I think it would be appropriate for The Observer, as a display of respect for this man's life, to run an apology for including the advertisement in the first place. 
Linda J. Thimons Lewis Hall February 24, 1988 
Recovery requires confidentiality 
Dear Editor: 
I am a recovering alcoholic, and I believe that it is my individual right to decide with whom I will share informa­tion regarding my alcoholism. 
I do respect the concept of interven­tion as "life saving." As part of this process, I would expect that my con­fidentiality would be respected unless I were to request otherwise. 
I believe that after individuals are in the recovery process they will be most able to decide with whom they will share this information. 
I believe that the "need to know" should not override an individual's rights to confidentiality. I believe that concerned others only need to know that a person on medical leave is safe and receiving appropriate support. 
Itis my strong hope that all members of the Notre Dame community will do everything within their power to safeguard the confidentiality of any person who is beginning his or her per­sonal recovery journey. 
Sally Coleman University Counseling Center February 24, 1988 
Victims bear similarities 
Dear Editor: 
This is in reference to a month-old item, but I think it is worth saying. A resident of Grace Hall wrote and said, in part, that he did not appreciate the comparison of abortion in this country to genocide in World War II Germany. It is for his benefit that I offer a few 

similarities between the two groups of victims: First, both groups were killed for the convenience-profit of their murderers. 
Second, both groups were utterly defenseless and went silently, like lambs, to the slaughter. 
Third, the "crime" for which all these were executed was quite simply an accident of birth. 
Fourth, many good Christian people, aware of the extermination, turned their backs and did nothing. 
Personally, I belive that our nation will suffer for many years to come for the shedding of so much innocent blood, just as Germany still bears the stigma of the Holocaust. 
Elizabeth Balmert Class of 1982 San Diego, California February 22, 1988 
Magazine blamed for distorting truth 
Dear Editor: 
Fidelity magazine's appalling adver­tising in the Feb. 23 issue demands a response even from those of us who never write to newspapers. Indeed, it demands a double response. 
The members of The Observer's staff who approved the advertisement's in­sertion must ask themselves some dif­ficult questions. Did they consider, for example, the pain that the grotesque illustration would cause to Father Ras­mussen's colleagues, students and friends? Did they wonder how far they might be helping to spread the most vicious slanders by printing Fidelity's copy? Did they stop to think whether any good whatever could possibly result from such an advertisement for the academic community of which they are members? These questions, and many more besides, ought to be deliberated by the staff now, even though the greater part of the damage has already been done. But the ques­tions to be asked of The Observer can­not be allowed to obscure what is really at issue here. The real blame in this grim episode must fall to Fidelity mag­azine and its editor, E. Michael Jones. 
Mr. Jones claims to speak bluntly; he must be answered bluntly. The article on Fr. Rasmussen in Fidelity is obscene. It is much more obscene than what we ordinarily call "pornog­raphy,'' just because a perverted depic­tion of God's saving truth is much more obscene than a perverted depiction of human desire. The pornographers sell magazines by peddling images of bodies. Mr. Jones sells magazines by peddling blood, despair and the faces of the dead. What is infinitely worse, he wraps his pornography, his sadomasochism, in the trappings of revealed truth. 
I wish on no one the unsavory task of reading Mr. Jones' piece. Those who have read it know it to be a pastiche of unattributed quotations, salacious fan­tasies, distortions of Scripture and malicious innuendos. We cannot know what Fr. Rassumsen thought or suf­fered or chose; this truth Mr. Jones mouths, though he clearly does not believe it. We can know, we can see that Mr. Jones's article tramples on holy things. He quotes Ezekiel against the bishop, but contemns the Sermon on the Mount. He paraphrases Paul on the bankrupcy of paganism, but does not himself rise even to the level of a single pagan virtue. Mr. Jones demands that the authorities defend the integrity of the Church, then violates that in­tegrity in every line by rending the communion of charity that is the mysti­cal Body of Christ. 
Mr. Jones ends, hypocritically, by saying that his purpose was "not to judge Father Rasmussen. God has already done that with perfect justice and mercy and perfect insight into the state of his soul." We can only pray that Mr. Jones realizes the dreadful im­port of that truth for his own malignant ideology. 
And we can hope that the editors of The Observer, who share this commu­nity with us, will have learned someth­ing about being used. 
Prof. Mark D. Jordan Program of Liberal Studies February 24, 1988 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Bus;:.ess Manager ............................. John Oxrider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46558 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................ Marl! PankOOifski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor ....................................Chria Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
The Clblerver is the indepetldent newapeper publiahed by the llludenta of the Univeflity o1 Viewpoint Edltor .................................. Chr~ Mul'1)hy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Notre o.me du Lac and Saint Mary'a College. It doel nol necelllrily r.nect the policin of SporU Editor .................................. Dennia \.Amigan Systems Mansqer ............................ Shawn Sexton the ~ration of eilt1er inatitution. Tha News ie l"'pprred • accurately and objecWely as Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele posaible. Unsigned editoriala r~ lhe opinion o1 the l'll8jorily o1 the Editorial Board Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerirnele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commenlariea, lellert Mel the lneidli Column pr~ lhe Yiewl of their authors. Column space Photo Editor ............................... ........... Jim CarroH is available to all members ollhe school community, Mel the tree ·~ o1 varying opinions on campus, lhl'ough lefterl, ie encouraged. 


at, 

Time 7:00 EST 
TV & ESPN national telecast (Dick Vitale, Tim Brando)
Radio 
WSBT-AM 960, WNDU-AM 1600, WVFI-AM 640 

Tickets 
Game is sold out (capacity 11 ,418) 

AP Rankings Vanderbilt 17th Notre Dame unranked 
Series Series tied, 1-1 First game in 1974 
Last Game February 6, 1987 Vanderbilt 60, Notre Dame 56 
Voce fills shoes, lane for Irish 
Senior co-captain leads when it counts in crunch 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame had just upset 
top-ranked North Carolina. 
The floor was mobbed with wild 
students celebrating the win. 
Gary Voce, who scored 15 
points and grabbed 10 rebounds 
to earn MVP honors, was in the 
middle of the chaos, and sud­
denly he felt someone tugging 
at his foot. 
"There was this guy trying 
to pull my shoe off," says a still 
disbelieving Voce. "I said 'go 
ahead, just loosen it up, don't 
break my leg.' It was just 
crazy." 
The student still has the shoe, and it's probably just as well. Voce has had to fill much big­ger shoes since then. With the graduation of Donald Royal, Voce has emerged as the man the Irish go to when they need inside points late in the game. 
"Last year, I always knew that Donald was there--so you could always contribute and say, 'Well I gave what I had' but it always came down to being in Donald's hands," says Voce. "It's kind of that way with me this year. If the game comes down and we might lose, if we're going to lose I want to say that I at least gave a shot at it and I didn't shy away from the situation." 
In no game was that more evident than the Dayton game last Thursday. With the Flyers threatening to close in on the Irish, Voce scored 14 second­half points to ensure a Notre Dame win. 
"We want to go to him, get him to the line--similar to what we did with Royal last year," says Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "Obviously we want to establish an inside game. We want Voce to get the ball." 
People have been trying to put a ball in Voce's hands ever since he was 13 years old, when he and his family moved to Queens, New York from his boyhood home in Jamaica, where cricket was his game and basketball was little more than a curiosity. 
"It was just a gym sport, like 
floor hockey is here," says the 
6-9 senior. "They knew what 
basketball was, but it was just 
a game they played in the 
states. When I came here, 
everyone said 'You're so tall, 
you've got to play basketball, 
you'd be good at it,' so I kind 
of got thrown into it.'' 
Since then, Voce's progress 
has has been rapid. At Tolen­
tine High School, he was a two­
time all-city pick and was con­
sidered the best big man in 
New York. He averaged 16 
points and 10.3 rebounds a 
game, while teaming with John 
Johnson, now at Virginia, to 
lead Tolentine to season marks 
of 26-2, 22-5 and 20-7. 
And even though much of the competition was shorter than he was, Voce used the high school days to unveil his jump shot that is now a polished part of his game. 
"All through high school, I would handle the ball against the little guys and sometimes I guess I felt bad muscling the guys that were 5-9," says Voce. "I'd be going against them in­side and they'd sometimes say 'I guess you can beat me that way if you want,' so I was kind of forced to shoot jumpers just out of fairness. I guess my shot kind of evolved that way." 
After two seasons filled with watching Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton and Ken Barlow play the inside positions, Voce got his chance to start as a junior. After struggling early, Voce settled into his role midway through the season. 
In a game against Dayton at the ACC, Voce scored 14 points and grabbed 12 rebounds. Voce's confidence soared and a crowd-favorite was born. With every Voce basket or rebound, the fans would extend their arms in the shape of a V. During a timeout, the fans even changed the traditional Go­Irish chants into a Gary-Voce chant. 
"I had a lot of fun with that," says Voce. "During the 
see VOCE, page 4 

Irish senior Gary Voce muscles Inside against of games. "I feel comfortable when It comes Dayton earlier this season. The 6-9 cocaptain Is crunch time," says Voce, "and (my teammates) averaging a career-high 10.6 points per game this feel 'Well, Voce can do lt.' " season and has become a force In the latter parts 
Vandy a two-way threat 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 

The 17-7 and 17th-ranked Vanderbilt Commodores have been both the David and the Goliath of college basketball this season. 
They beat North Carolina 78­76 when the Tar Heels were ranked No·. 1. They narrowly lost at Kentucky but then blew the Southeastern Conference­leading Wildcats out at home 83-66. They hammered Florida 92-65. 
On the flipside, V andy lost 81­68 at home Wednesday night to Auburn. The 'Dores also have fallen to the likes of Tennessee (80-72), twice to Louisiana State (51-39 and 94-79) and to Alabama (88-77). But when the Commodores are in charge, they're a force to be reckoned with. 
"Playing Vanderbilt knowing they lost (Wednesday) night to Auburn doesn't change anything," Irish head coach Digger Phelps says of the Commodores. "They're still an outstanding basketball team. You have a 7­foot center who's a legitimate first-round draft pick and can 
. ; 
dominate inside. Then you have the three-point shooters who can make things happen from outside. 
"That's the thing about playing Vanderbilt. You worry about them scoring inside, and they'll shoot outside. You take away the outside game, and (Will) Perdue will get the three-point play inside. You can't key on anyone because they have such good balance." 
Perdue, the 'Dores leader, has become probably the most improved player in the nation. 
see VANDY, page 4 



-:· ;­

. . 

Courtesv of Student Gover 
••> Don't cost ND a T. Ke 
-... 

. . 

. .,. 
. . 

-.. 
. ., 

.... 
ment and The Observer 
~P this in the stands 


--~---~--­
was out there just killing the Voce, an American Studies the mouth before the game," teams have to respect him world." major. "They're all excited, he says. "That's the way I get more--he's become a force." In the past few weeks, they don't realize it's just col­psyched before a game--by get­Now, frequently facing continued from page 1 however, Voce's inside play lege. ting loose." double-teaming in the lane,has been killing Irish oppo­"I've sent them some pro­Much of Voce's improvement Voce says he is also feeling con­
Voce 
timeout, the fans were saying nents. In addition to the Dayton grams and they think it's a can be traced to the work of fident that his feet fit snugly in my name and I didn't realize game, Voce scored a career­Time magazine or something former Irish and NBA star, the big shoes left for hirrr when 
it. I still had 'Go-Irish' ringing high 21 points and grabbed 10 so I have to keep it pretty low­John Shumate. Now a Notre Donald Royal and his clutch in­in my head, but one of my rebounds in a win against key with them." Dame assistant coach, side scoring graduated last teammates noticed it right UCLA. He averages 10.7 points Voce tries to keep a laid-back Shumate is enthusiastic with season. away. and a team-leading 7.1 approach to most everything his project's development. ''There are times now when 
"I appreciated it a lot, but I rebounds per contest and besides the games themselves. "Gary is just now realizing the team realizes they need me was worried that the people there's no happier group than In pre-game warm-ups, he can what kind of a force he can be," to score," says the Irish co­might thing that I was going to his relatives in Jamaica. usually be seen popping a few says Shumate. "He sets a pick captain. "I guess I feel com­
let it go to my head. I just from 3-point territory. and when he rolls down, he fortable when it comes crunch couldn't believe they were "My mom sends them tapes "I'll never get out there and demands the ball, where he time and they feel 'Well, Voce chanting that. You'd think I when we're on television," says start grunting and foaming at used to be tentative. Now can do it.' " 
Saturday night's matchups 
G 
HT WT G·S FG·FGA PCT 3PT·3PA PCT FT-FTA PCT REB AVG TP AVG David Rivers 6-0 180 23·23 167-383 .436 42-98 .429 141-171 ·.825 95 4.1 517 22.5 Barry Goheen 6-3 185 24-24 102-224 .455 21-50 .420 69-90 .767 74 3.1 294 12.3 
G 
Joe Fredrick 6-4 180 18-10 54-91 .593 1-2 .500 30-37 .811 20 1.1 139 7.7 Barry Booker 6-3 185 24-23 88-194 .454 55-120 .458 20-23 .870 58 2.4 251 10.5 
F 
Mark Stevenson 6-6 210 19-15 91·183 .497 0-1 .000 31-44 .705 83 4.4 213 11.2 Eric Reid 167 7.0
6-8 215 24-14 65-148 .439 0-0 .000 37-59 .627 127 5.3 
F 
Gary Voce 6-9 255 22-22 84-162 .519 1-2 .500 66-82 .805 162 7.4 234 10.6 Frank Kornet 6-8 225 24-22 53-110 .482 0-1 .000 19-26 .731 95 4.0 125 5.2 
c 
Keith Robinson 6-9 200 24-10 91·145 .628 0-1 .000 30-53 .566 162 6.8 212 8.8 Will Perdue 7-() 240 24-24 163-283 .575 0-0 .000 84-125 .672 253 10.5 448 18.7 
ND 24-24 646-1293 .500 60-150 .400 379-513 .739 855 35.6 1731 72.1 vu 24-24 583-1268 .460 77-196 .393 255-355 .718 617 25.7 1498 62.4 
-

Irish Statistics ­
PLAYER G-$ MIN-AVO FG-FGA PCT 3PT-3PA PCT FT-FTA PCT RSB AVO A TP '''l David Rivers 23·23 843-37 167-383 .436 42-98 .429 141·171 .825 95 4.1 116 517 22.5 Mark Stevenson 19-15 591-31 9H83 .497 0·1 .000 31-44 .705 83 4.4 28 . 213 11.2 Gary Voce 22-22 706-32 84-162 .519 1·2 .500 66-82 .805 162 7.4 15 234 10.6 Keith Robinson 24-10 578-24 91-145 .628 0-1 .000 30-53 .566 162 6.8 7 212 8.8 Joe Fredrick 18-10 398-22 54-91 .593 1-2 .500 30-37 .811 20 1.1 38 139 7.7 Jamere Jackson 24-18 520-18 46-94 ..489 4-13 .308 23-31 .742 30 1.3 41 119 5.0 Sean Connor 23-5 340-15 43-103 .417 13-32 .406 4-6 .667 45 2.0 14 103 4.5 Scott Paddock 24-16 470-20 34-61 .557 0-() .000 18-31 .581 124 5.2 14 86 3.6 Tim Singleton 23-1 186-8 16·26 .615 0·1 .ooo 19·27 .704 16 0.7 35 51 2.2 Kevio Ellery • 19-() 124-7 13·26 .500 0,0 .000 10·17 .588 23 1.2 3 36 1.9 
• Steve Nicgorski 10:.0 18-2 3 .·.Q.O·· .000 s.a .625 10 1.0 0 11 1.1 
()'.~'·········

Tany Jad«!!n 't''.tO.O.''' 35-4 .~ '04> .000 ;000 10 HI 1 6 0.6 Chtls Nanni .10..0.•.•:'' 16-2 1• 0...1 .000 2-4 .500 1 0.1 0 4 0.4
Vanderbilt center Will Perdue Is the Inside threat of Vanderbilt's 
t NOTREi DAME 244 4825 646-1293 ;S()O 60-150 .400 379-513 .739 855 35.6 312 1731 72.1 multi-talented offense. The 7-o·Perdue Is averaging 18.7 points per . OPPONENTS 24-, 4825 77·196 .393 255-355 .718 617 25.7 319 1498 62.4
583-1268 ··~····,···

game after averaging below four points per game his freshman and sophomore years. 
The Observer I File photo 
page 4

.... 
Vandy 
continued from page 1 
After averaging 2.7 and 3.5 points per game his first two seasons, Perdue responded with a 17.4 average last year. Similarly, his rebounding average soared from 2.2 and 2.8 to 8.7. This season, Perdue ii averaging 18.7 points and 10.5 rebounds. When he gets a slam, it's a Perdunk. What makes Perdue even more intimidating is the fact that he's a fine pas­ser, averaging 2.4 assists per game. 
Complementing Perdue's in-· side strength is a squad chock­full of three-point bombers. Vandy is shooting 44 percent (161-of-363) from beyond the 19­9 line. The Commodores average 15 three-point shots per game. In their win over Kentucky, they landed 13-of-20 bombs. 
The maddest bomber for the 'Dores is 6-3 junior guard Barry Booker. Booker is 55-of-122 
(45.8 percent) from three-point range and averages 10.5 points per game. Backcourt mate Barry Goheen is no slouch from out there either, shooting 42 percent (21-of-50) and averag­ing 12.3 points per game. Goheen also leads the Com­modores in assists with 2.6 per game. 
Vanderbilt's frontline is com­posed of 6-8 sophomore Eric Reid (7.0 points per game, 5.3 
rebounds) and 6-8 junior Frank Kornet (5.2, 4.0). 
When Vanderbilt head coach 
C.M. Newton goes to his bench, the weapons keep coming: Charles Mayes, a 6-8 freshman forward, is averaging 8.5 points and 3.4 rebounds per game, and Scott Draud, a 6-2 sophomore guard, is averaging 7.8 points 

C.M. Newton 

per game. Both are dangerous form three-point land. Mayes shoots 41 percent (31-0f-75) and Draud 44.6 (37-0f-83). 
Derrick Wilcox, a 5-11 soph­omore guard, also has been a factor off the bench, averaging 
5.3 points per game. Also on the Vanderbilt bench is Chip Rupp, grandson of immortal Ken­tucky head coach Adolph Rupp. 
-

"Playing Vanderbilt, a team that will be in the NCAA Tourn­ament and surprise people in the NCAA Tournament, will be a challenge for us to do the little things we have to do," Phelps says. "They're such a strong rebounding team, a good transition team and they're 
The Observer 

well coached. This is one of the premier teams in the nation." 
The Irish are currently riding a five-game winning streak, their longest of the season. Senior guard David Rivers is leading the way with a 22.5 points per game average. On the inside, Gary Voce has upped his scoring average to 
10.5 points per game. 

The Irish are also starting to get solid play from their bench. Sophomore Scott Paddock has had solid games against both Rutgers and Creighton (12 rebounds in each of those con­tests), and Tim Singleton has handled the club well while giving Rivers a breather. 
Paddock, however, may not be able to play in Saturday night's contest because of ill­ness. He has not been able to practice since Monday's win over Creighton. Phelps said Thursday that Paddock's status probably wouldn't be known until Saturday. 
"Paddock and Singleton coming off the bench have done very, very well," Phelps says of his bench. "They guy I'm waiting for to explode is Sean Connor, and I'll guarantee he's going to do it soon. I just can't believe he's going to go a whole season without getting . in a groove. He's too good an offen­sive player not to help us. 
"Guys like Paddock, Singleton and Connor can be nothing but plusses for us off the bench, and I think that Tim Singleton is playing with more confidence each time he goes out there." 
Weekend Edition. February 26-27. 1987 

The Observer I Mike Moran 
Voce skies against DePaul. Despite not playing basketball until he was 13, Voce has developed a strong Inside game, leadJng the Irish with 7.4 rebounds per game. Voce also has a soft touch from outside and Is an 81-percent free-throw shooter. 
---~--­

Accent
Friday, February 26, 1988 page 11 
Evangelist Jimmy Swaggart gone astray 
anyone dumb enough to take 
the risk. on a night when he's 
caught off guard, feeling ne­
glected and tired enough to be 
careless. 
The Bible Belt religions, believing that man is saved by grace and not be works, are alleged to be tolerant in winking at a husband's in­fidelity. The denominational leaders who questioned Jimmy about his weakness should have asked him about more serious matters. 
For several years, Jimmy has been furnishing us with the names of places and dates when God has treated him to private revelations about the religious conversion of the Third World. 
God, says Jimmy, has or­dered him to hold revival crusades in South America, and to beam his telecasts to countries behind the Iron Cur­tain. The costs would be exor­bitant. and God wants Jimmy's followers to accept the duty of paying the bills for all this evangelism. 
Millions of souls are perish­ing. Jimmy says, because the Gospel is not preached to them; God is pressuring Jimmy becuase the hour of the anti­Chris! is almost at hand. 
Born-again Christians who believe in Jimmy should send him as much money as they can, even if it hurts them, so that as prayer-partners, they can help Jimmy carry out the Lord's command. 
Instead of nailing Swaggart on the Mickey Mouse specifics of his dalliance with a fancy woman, wouldn't his bosses do well to find out whether the God of his visions has really empowered him, to shake down the godly and the gullible for millions of dollars, under pain of grieving their Saviour if they don't cough it up? 
How can he persuade his nocks to give him money, to be spent on God's glory, now 

that they have seen him un­steady about holding onto the 
state of grace? 
Jimmy Swaggart is an em­barrassment. to priests and parsons alike. Should they throw him to the wolves, as a way of distancing themselves from him? Maybe he's been corrupted by power and money, but he's no worse that the rest of us. 
Why should I try to kick him to death when he's down for the count? There, but for the grace of God, go 1--except. of course, I've never made count­less thousands of sinners weep because I've introduced them to Jesus. 
All of who mount pulpits, or preside at altars. are clowns in God's kingdom. As God's clowns, we should be wearing rags and patches on our motley-colored suits, to match the antics and grimaces by which we distract God's children from seeing the face of Christ we serve. 
Kill the messenger who brings the bad news. You can also kill the messenger who brings the good news, the Gospel, if he offends you. His message will stay the same. Christianity's message may be the only good news the world has ever heard. 
Maybe, as a college student. chuckling at Carson or Letter­man, you've decided that the shortcomings of Swaggart, the defection of a Judas, and the clowning around of clerics in high or low places, have turned the Christian religion into a bad joke? 
Listen! You will not hear this at Harvard Business School. Ivan Karamazov speaks of the suffering of children. "Of the other human tears with which the earth is soaked from its crust to its center, I will say nothing. All that my pitiful. earthly Euclidean understand­ing tells me that there is suffer­ing. and that there are none guilty... " 
Ivan is an atheist for love's sake. Alyosha Karamazov points him to Christ--to the suffering of the innocent one who came from God. 
Is suffering a proof of the nonexistance of God? If you could see the suffering that lakes place in a day, wouldn't the idea of God's whereabouts come to your mind? The idea would be there of the creative power from which the life-force comes. 
Wouldn't you figure that if Nature is so mindless and blind in generating life with the result that the famines in Africa are repeated over and over, then human beings have a duty to creation to see that children aren't thrown away or wasted? 
The ancient Aeschylus wrote: "Zeus, setting us on the road, made this a valid law--that men must learn by suffering. Drop by drop in sleep upon the heart falls the laborious memory of pain; against one's will comes wisdom. The grace of the gods if forced on us, throned inviably." 
Zeus wasn't Christ. The Chri­stian God confronted suffering head on. He promised that the kindness we offer God's children will alleviate His human suffering. From the days of the prophets in Israel until now, when Mot­her Teresa brings her compas­sion to the streets of Calcutta, God's people have known that they must make His work on earth their own, if only as Rotarians who have sparks of love in them. Loving the help­fess and wounded, and identi­fying with them, is to become Christ's brother or sister. 
Swaggart. on his good days or his bad days, is not the foundation stone on which Christianity rests. 
C
arson started Tuesday's "Tonight" program by intro­ducing himself as the comedy evangelist. a lead-in to his monologue on the Swaggart scandal. Johnny said: "Can you believe it's happening again? I can recycle last year's jokes about Jim Bakker." 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
This theology of deliverance has never worked for me when I've tested it. I have huddled, sometimes kneeling. before the TV set. repeating the "Sinners' prayer," phrase by phrase, as Jimmy lines it out; accepting Jesus as my Saviour, importun­ing Him to help me give up 

Swaggart Is being sent to the Gary Hart clinic, Carson said, where he will undergo therapy that will de-bimboize him. The satire was good-natured and appropriate; I was glad that this was not a week filled with reruns of the "Best of Carson." 
Laughter is the medicine we need to cleanse our palates after the dreariness of watching the televangelist tearfully con­fessing his sinfulness. 
I don't appreciate the religions that ape show busi­ness so closely, the preachers are forced to go before the television camera to admit their sexual hang-ups in living color. 
I take no pleasure in hearing of Swaggart's shabby behavior. Swaggart is a bigot who has never had a kind thing to say about other people's religions, Catholic or Protestant; but I've always enjoyed watching him, even when he's outrageous. 
Swaggart has the power to move his listeners in a profound way; their faces, shown on camera, are proof that they are at a religious turning point of some kind. 
This preacher's message is simplistic: no matter how deep in sin you are, if you accept Jesus, He will give you the power to break the chains of sin. and be free of your attach­ment to drink, drugs, and con­cupiscence. 
'' 
smoking. 

Has the old-time religion brought miraculous cures to the walking wounded, winos, junkies, and the slaves of vice, in the way Jimmy promises? I hope it has. 
Why didn't it help the physician recommending the cure, that is, Swaggart himself, humiliated now by a fascination with pornography, as he calls it. that bothered him all his life, though he as prayed and fasted to be free of it? 
My opinion of Swaggart is that he doesn't know beans about human nature. Any priest who has spent time hearing confessions could tell you that Christians frequently struggle with thorns in their nesh. 
God doesn't neuter our desires with a miracle, even if they seem inordinate; however, He disposes us to want to be chaste, and with the help of His grace, we try to discpline ourselves to chastity. 
If we persuaded Him to turn off the name that heats up our carnality, we'd be turned into eunuchs, and where would be the fun in that? 
I don't want to nip at Swag­gart's heel as the voyeur watch­ing him enter a brothel in the company of a hooker. If, as God's servant. he's behaved like a hypocrite, that's his tragedy. It could happen to 
''Pur1·Ie : a Southern revival 

N
ew York's Daedalus Produc­tions will present the musi­cal comedy "Purtle", Friday at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Those who star in Purlie (pictured at right) are: Stephan Casey, Natalie English, Vanessa Jones, and Scott For­tune. This show ran for over two years on Broadway, win­ning two Tony Awards and spawning several national tours. 
"Purlie" takes place about 30 years ago, just before the com­ing of civil rights to a rural Georgia estate of 01' Capn' Cotchipee, a miser who longs for the days of slavery. Connict arises when a headstrong black local. named Purtle VIctorious Judson, arrives to claim a fam­ily inheritance, which Capn' has been holding for "safe­keeping." 
Purtle, a self-styled preacher, plans to use the money to reopen his grandfather's barn church, Big Bethel. His suc­cesses, however, depends on the acting talents of Lutiebelle Jenkins, a sweet-souled but naive country girl who is very much in love with him. Chaos 
results as Purtle's scheme to correct the wrongs done to his 
family and friends unfolds. 
The world depicted in "Purlie" clings to the manners, customs, and injustices of the Old South. But it was also a world struggling towards a new freedom. With its vibrant music and down-home humor, "Purlie" celebrates the folks who helped change the South, and then learned to live with it. 
Tickets for "Purlie" are still available at the O'Laughlin box offlce. Visa and Mastercard are accepted. Tickets may also be purchased by calling the box offlce at 284-4626. 
Accent
page 12 Friday, February 26, 1988 


~ust-see movies 

ANIMAL HOUSE Fri-Sat Engineering Auditorium 8 and 10 p.m. 
National Lampoon's Magazine presents a hysterical satire of college life particularly of fraternities in the early 1960's. The film deals with the competition between the sophisticated Omegas and the sloppy Deltas on a small college campus. The other problem for the Deltas is the dean who wants to throw these misfits off campus. John Landis directs an all-star cast including John Belushi, Tim Matheson, and Donald Sutherland. Color, USA 109 minutes. 
LOVE ME TONIGHT Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 
One of the first musical comedies this film stars Maurice Chevalier as a tailor who falls in love with a princess (Jeanette MacDonald). It features famous Rodgers and Hart songs, including "Mimi" and "Isn't It Romantic." Black and White, USA 96 minutes. 
THE DRAUGHTSMAN'S CONTRACT Mon Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
An English country house in 1694 is the setting for a thrilling murder mystery. Mr. Neville, the young man ofthe title, makes an interesting deal which results in murder. Peter Greenaway directs this suspense­ful movie. Color, Great Britain, 107 minutes. 
FRANTIC University Park East Cinema 
Dr. Richard Walker and his wife return to Paris for their second honeymoon. Their romantic plans are ruined however when she is kidnapped. Walker must set out to find herwith the help ofa beautiful young woman who holds the secret to this mystery. The film stars Harrison Ford, Betty Buckley, and introducing Emmanuelle Seigner under the direction of Roman Polanski. 
A NIGHT IN THE LIFE OF JIMMY REARDON Scottsdale Cinema 
Narrated by Jimmy himself the audience learns of a turning point in his life. The film takes place in 1962 when Jimmy learns that he must follow in his father's footsteps by attending his boring alma mater. He panics and becomes a rebellious. precocious teenager whose main purpose in life is to avoid commitment and responsi­bility. It stars River Phoenix and Meredith Salenger. 
Indiana University at South Bend presents pianist Linda Larson tonight at 8: 15 p.m. and trombonist Ted Lilly on 
Sunday at 3 p.m. in 

Northside Recital Hall. Ad­
mission is free. 

On Saturday at 8 p.m. the IUSB Film Series will present the film "Lenny" and on Sunday the film "Zelig" directed by Woody Allen. They can be seen at the Northside Hall Little Theatre. Call 237-4278 for ticket information. 
The South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra will present a concert on Sun­day. Directed by Brian Salesky it includes selections by Handel, Beethoven, and Hindemith. The performance begins at 7:30p.m. at the Grace United Methodist Church. Tickets are $12 for adults and $5 for students. Call 232-6343 for more information. 
At 7:30p.m. the Notre Dame Hockey team will compete against Lake Forest. The games are tonight and to­morrow at the JACC Ice Arena. 
The Harlem Globetrotters will exhibit their amazing basketball skills tonight at 8 
p.m. Tickets are on sale for $1 0 and $8.50. Call 239­7516 for more information. 
The Notre Dame Men's Bas­ketball team takes on Van­derbilt at 7 p.m. at the JACC on Saturday night. 
On Sunday at 4 p.m. the Music Department presents faculty member, Stephen Miller, in a guitar recital at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Ticketmaster, a computer­
ized ticket service, has opened a new branch at the JACC. Chicago Cubs home 
game tickets are now on 
sale. 

SACRED HEART SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) Fr. Jeffrey Schneibel 9 a.m. Fr. Michael Heppen 

10:30 a.m. Fr. Thomas O'Meara 
12:15 p.m. Fr. Thomas Gaug­han 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady 
Chapel 

SACRED HEART CONFESSION SCHEDULE 
11:15 a.m. Monday thr Satur­day 5 p.m. Monday thr Friday 7 p.m. Monday thr Thursday 
SAINT MARY'S SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
10:30 a.m. Church of 
Loretto 4:30p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.m. Holy Cross Chapel 10 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers-Church of 
Loretto 


Harrison Ford is joined by EmmanueUe Seigner in the search for his missing wife in "Frantic." 

jVideo Review
Local Theater Guide 
I
0000000000000000000 
READY Ill CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 683-1112 
"BATTERIES NOT INCLUDED" "WALL STREET" "THREE MEN AND A BABY" 
"RETURN OF THE LMNG 
DEAD II"

~­
FORUM CINEMAS 
North Village Mall 277-1522 

r 
"THE LAST EMPEROR" "SATISFACTION" "BROADCAST NEWS" 
.Alii. 

In the stores this week: gets more than he bargained Spaceballs (1987) is Mel for as the proverbial battle of UNIVERSITY PARK WESTTOWN AND COUNTRY Brooks' overbaked spoof of the sexes looms over George Lucas' Star Wars, "Paradise" (Warner Home 2340 Hickory Rd. 
University Park Mall replete with a Winnebago-Video, rated R. 118 minutes,259-9090 277-0441 

shaped spaceship, the evil $79.95). emporer Skroob (Mel Brooks), It's Alive Ill: Island of the 
"SHE'S HAVING A BABY" a spacey outer space Princess Alive ( 1 987) is the third install­
"THREE MEN AND A BABY" "SHOOT TO KILL" 
Vespa (Daphne Zunigna), the ment in the gruesome yet"MOONSTRUCK" "GOOD MORNING VIETNAM" nasty Dard Helmet (Rick funny cult "It's Alive"series. 
"HOPE AND GLORY" Moranis), the half-dog. half-Director Lary Cohen's weird 

human Bark (John Candy) and sense of humor comes to the 
the gentle and wize Zen-like surface again as the lethal 
master Yogurt (also Brooks). baby-monsters, the result ofSCOTTSDALE CINEMAS 
1153 Scottsdale Mall 291-4583 

"A NIGHT IN THE LIFE OF JIMMY REARDON" "SHOOT TO KILL" 
100 CENTER CINEMA 
100 Center St. 259-0414 
"RAW" "PLANES; TRAINS, AND AUTOMOBILES" 

Brooks' humor hasn't always humankind's environmental 
hit the mark. but when it does mistakes, grow to maturity on 
it's well worth the price of a remote island, and due to a 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
admission (or in this case, strange twist of fate, come rental) (MCMtUA Home Video, back to haunt the civilization 6424 Grape Rd 
rated PG-13, 97 minutes, that rejected them (Warner 277-7336 
$89.95). Home Video, rated R. 95 minutes, $79.95). Castaway (1987) is for direc­"THE SERPENT 
tor Nicolas (Performance, The Steel Justice (1987) stars AND THE RAINBOW" 
Man Who Fell to Earth) Roeg Cagney & Lacey's Martin Kove "IRONWEED" 
fans only. The quirky director as a battle-hardened, spirit­"ACTION JACKSON" 
always prints an askance view scarred Vietnam vet who "CRY FREEDOM" 
of the world. In this film he doesn't fit in with mainstream "FATAL ATTRACTION" 
casts Oliver Reed as a middle-America--until he takes justice 
aged adventurer-to-be who into his own hands when going wants to spend a frolicsome after a gang of murderous year on a Pacific Island with a drug-runners (Paramount Home companiont'wife" he recruits Video, rated R. 96 minutes, from a classified ad. But he $79.95). 
~~~--~-~-~~---------~ 
Sports Briefs . 
The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip to Lake Forest today. The bus leaves at 1 p.m. and returns at 1 a.m. (after game). Cost is $17, $15 for club members. -The Observer 
Irish hockey can be heard on WVFI Saturday at 3 p.m. Listen to Sean 'The Iceman' Pieri and Steve 'Billy Bear' Trepiccione call the ND-Lake Forest action. -The Observer 
The cheerleaders ask that students show the Commodores the Irish's true colors by wearing green to Saturday's ND-Vanderbilt basketball game. -The Observer 
Tim Brown competed in the Superstars competition in Key Biscayne, Fla. He won his pre­liminary division and finished lOth overall with 14 points. He placed third 100-yard dash behind Herschel Walker and Danny Harris. Brown .took home $15,300 for his overall finish. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be Sunday, February 28 from 12-4 p.m. All students and faculty members are invited to play. There is a $5 entry fee. Any questions, call Mike at 1962. 
-The Observer 

The women's track team is beginning practice for the outdoor season. Anyone interested in participating should show up at the JACC Fieldhouse today at 4 p.m. or call Amy Jo at 2533 or Linda at 2485. -The Observer 
Gracevision, Notre Dame's only hall televi­sion system; will be filming this year's Bengal Bouts. Videotape orders can be placed at the door of Stepan Center each night of the fights. Tapes of each weight class, or of the championship night are available for $29.95 each. -The Observer 
Tile 0.....Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· cMnt Center, eccepts claaalfled ~1116ng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 11w a...-Saln1 ~office, located on the third floor of H-uo-Collge Center, eccepta claaalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claaalfledala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat 
Classifieds be prepaid, elttw' In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ctt.w:tera per My. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2n· 7406 
TYPING ·CALL DOLORES 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Gel ready lor Spring Break by selling unwanled class books lor $$$ at Pan­dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block o" NO Ave). Open 7 days/ week 10-5:30. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 2n­5014 
WORDPROCESSING'TYPING. CALL PAT 234-5526. 
Need Aide to NEW YORK CITY ol the near vicinity lor SPRING BREAKIII Can leave any day Will share expenses. Please call M1ssy 271-0868 
LOST/FOUND 
Found· some chick's glasses on the path up lrom the Grotto lo the Ad Buildmg You're myop1c and probably can't read th1s, but 11 you still want them, they've gol scratched lenses. a clear round frame, and senously need some tape to hold them together. Call 3204 or 3206 and ask tor 8111. Dave, or Matt '"The Beast~ any 11me this weekend to cla1m (or stop by 3321.!34 Holy X Hall). 
LOST PURPLE AMETHYST EARRING 1n Library Aud1tonum Call BETSY-­C2n31 
LOST THURSDAY VIB-88 2 KEYS ON A STAR SHAPED PAPER,CLIP NEED THEM BACK REAL BAD 271-0758 
One gold & pearl earnng either in B-P. Grace, or somewhere in between. REWARDIII Call x1330 THANKSIII 
MISSING WOMENS LONG BLACK WOOL TWEED COAT FROM SENIOR BAR LAST SAT. IT'S GOING TO BE A COLD WINTER WITHOUT IT PLEASE CALL MARY 2~732 
LOST· pa1r ol eyeglasses--brown case with Initials DAL on back II lound call Dave at 2506 
LOST IN OSHAG· pall ol red Komb1 sk1 gloves Mom will kill me it I don't lind them. Save a lite, call Tom at 4010 
IF YOU FOUND A CAMERA AT JPW, IT'S MY MOTHER'S. PLEASE RETURN AT LEAST THE FILM 419 STED'S (C2742) THANKS. 
LOST WOMEN'S GOLD WRISTWATCH WITH SQUARE FACE DURING JPW pleeae call x3872 or x1581 If found 
ATTN: PREPROFESSIONAL & BIOL­OGY MAJORS. FOUND A BRACELET JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND FREIMANN & LIFE SCIENCE CENTER. CONTACT ROBERT SPENCE OR KAY STEWART AT 2311-6086 OR 5393 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST: ONE MORRISSEY MANOR BOTTLE-OPENER KEYCHAIN WITH THREE KEYS ATTACHED. IF FOUND CALL BILL AT 3549 REWARD UPON RECEIPT. 
............................. ··················-·········· 
FOR RENT 
4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR­HOOD.475 MO CALL 2n­9097 OTHERS AVAILABLE 
RENT HOUSE DURING SUMMER GALt 232-3618 
SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS 2 rooms namalnlng, N.D.. Ave.; 255-5852 evening• 
RENT CHGO APTI Sunny, lg 1 br In vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd lira, lan, blnda, eat-In kH, dw, walk-In elate, bamtatorage,lndry. 112 blk to L.k Shona Dr bua, 2 blk to eltratn, Wrigley. $650. Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871-3397 (NO '80) 
................................................................ 
WANTED 

Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. Sponsored by the I.U. Club ol Notre Dame. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala. All llelda. $900-2000 mo. Slghta-­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92825. 
Wanted: 4 tun people Anyone looking tor a ride to anywhere in Flonda during Spring Break call· Jim C4085 
GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd like a ride any day you're going. Shared expenses. Call Missy 271-0868 or leave message w-toommate. 
I Need 2 or 4 Vandy GA'a Please call Nancy x4128 

RIDE NEEDED to Rochester,NY Thr. 31'1 0 A«er 1 tam Call Bill C3467 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR VICINITY SPRING BREAK LEEANN 284-4455 
WANTED R1de lor 2 to STING CONCERT in Chicago on Sunday Call Staph 4036 

Helpl I Need a nde to and lrom St.Louis lor Spring Break. Will share expenses. Call Chris at x1145 
NEED RIDE FOR BREAK TO MANKATO, TWIN CITIES, OR NEAR MANKATO CALL BRYAN 1548 
HAVE A FRIEND NEEDING A RIDE TO 
N.D. FROM PITTSBURGH APRIL 15 WEEKEND? FRIEND DRIVING UP FOR SR. FORMAL AND WOULD LIKE RIDERS. CALL DREW 3666. 
FOR SALE 
HELP I CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 
21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER. 
COMPLETE PEAVEY PA SYSTEM. IDEAL FOR CAMPUS BANDS. VERY REASONABLY PRICED. CALL MIKE 289-6508 
MUST SELL: TICKET TO TUCSONII $150. LEAVES CHICAGO 12 MARCH RETURNS 19 MARCH. CALL: MICHELE 2804. 
FOR SALE IBANEZ ROADMASTER BASS $225 NEGOTIABLE 3386 TIM 
TICKETS 

I NEED ANY MARQUETTE TIX-CARL C2187 
Hey ya'll I 4 gorgeous blondes lmm Van­derbilt are still coming up lor the game II We'll trade one ol them lor TICKETS to the game, or we'll pay BIG MONEY lor lhem. Call Pat al277-7571 NOW. GO VOCE GO I 
Need 2 or 4 Vandy tix. Will pay large sums ol money lor your good seats. Call Kevin at 272-0816. 
NEED 3 MARQUETTE GA'S. CALL MARY C3760 
Wanted MARQUETTE TICKETS Frank x1244 
Desparately need Vanderbilt ,GA'S-Mike 1699 
WANTED: 4 'T1X TO VANDBLT FEB.27 FOR FATHER & 3 BOYS. 312-541-4595 AFTER 6, 312-537-2727, 9-5. 
NEED A ROUND TRIP TICKET TO ANYWHERE IN U.S. FOR SPRING BREAK? NEED TO SELL. ONLY $125.00 IF INTERESTED, CALL MARIE 284-4420 
FLIGHT TO CHARLESTON SC FOR BREAK.CALL 1678 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
LIFE'S 
A BEACH 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL Beachlront hotel on tamous strip with 2 restaurants, 3 bars, large pool, bike shop and beachwear. Only $149oj>ers. (4-toom) lor 8 days, 7 nights ol Florida tun, sun & sur!. Don't miss out II Call Nowl 1-800­ENJOY-US. 
COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. 
Last Chance For Spring Break '881 Limited apace remains at South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Wat­ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado lor skiing. Hurry, Call Sunchaae Tours toll free 1·800-321-5911 lor naserva­tlona and Information TODAY. Credit cards accepted. 
YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College 
P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Conlidentiality Guaranteed. 
TOP GUN THURS 25 (7PM) CARROLL HALL $1 SPONSORED BY SMC FROSH CLASS. 
DON'T FORGET YOUR TICKETS FOR PURLIEI 
AAJAX 
NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. Call Missy 271-0868."······· 
Things We Won't Miss IX: "No, I'm already going to an SYR that weekend." 
GONG SHOW 
Auditions 
GONG SHOW Auditions for next month's Sophomore 
Class Gong Show to benalit St. Hedwig's 
Outreach Program will be held Mon Feb. 
29 and Wed Mar. 2 trom 8:30 -II p.m. 
in Crowley Hall. Applicants should call 
the Class Office at 239-5225 and leave 
their name and number. 
GONG SHOW 
Auditions 
GONG SHOW 
IRISH MUSIC AT MR. CHRISTIAN'S DI­LEMMA ON PRAIRIE AVE WITH JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS 8-12 EVERY FRI AND SAT 
The Return ol MONARCH Tues. and Wed March 1 & 2 at CHIP's Come and party to the sounds ol classic rock I 
I need 2 or 4 Vandy GA's 
Pleaaa Call Nancy x4128 
Dave Stolpman, WHY ARE YOU IGNOR­ING ME? 
Earn up to $5,000 thla school year managing on~campue marketing, pro­grams lor top national companlea. Flexible part-time hours. Muat be a Jr., Sr., or Grad atudent. Call Randl or Dee at (800) 592-2121. 

HAPPY 20TH TO SPUNKIN' DAVE KANE ... LOVE YOUR CLUELESS ROOMATE THERE ONCE WAS A MAN NAMED DAVE, ABOUT HIS ----THE GIRLS THEY DID RAVE; IT WAS SO BIG HE GOT PAID EVERY TIME HE GOT ----~ AND MADE BALCONI A LOVE SLAVE. 
HAPPY 19th, SHEAI 
I.O.U. ONE PERKINS' BREAKFAST! 
HAVE A GREAT DAYI LOVE, DAD & GANG 
THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME IIIII! Deadline tor applications to the Russia­Scandinavia summer study program is March 15. Enjoy Russia and Scandinavia while earning three credits II For more information and an application, call David at x1155. 
HEY HEY HEY ONLY ONE MORE DAY TO PREPARE FOR THE BRAZILIAN CARNIVAL II ENJOY SUPER COMBO PANAMERICANO II SAMBA--MERGENGUE--SALSA AT THEODORES FEB. 27, 1988 FROM 9 -1 A.M. 
........................•............... 

Screaming Mldgata From Hell 
Screaming Mldgeta From Hell 
Screaming Mldgeta From Hell 
They'rrrrrrre 

Baaaaaaack111 
They're Screaming They're Short They're Helllah They're Awesome 
SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII 
SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR TWO. Q:WHY IS A TICKET CALLED A BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHY I SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII 
SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII BID SALES MARCH 1,2&3 GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY, BRIANt Jimmy & Sam 
2 a young Irish lad who wants to go to the ST. PATS BALL.. who A U?? Smile at me on Leap fre>g'day so we can meet. -IRISH EYES 
Dear Suzi, O.K. There's this guy at a Cubs game, drinkin' a Coke with no ice through a straw. He hears someone shouting "Ay Bobl" He stands up, turns around, doesn't see who called, and sits back down. Then he hears again "Ay Bobl" He stands up again, turns around, doesn't see anyone, and sits back down. He hears lor the third time "Ay BobI" By this time he's really annoyed and shouts "MY NAME IS NOT BOBI" HAPPY BI,RTHDAY SUZIIIII Love Always, US 
HAPPY B-DAY JIM"NICE GUY" CUN­NARI Yes, theNorth Dining Hall God turns 19 today. Everyone wish him a good one as he serves dinner tonight. Have a labulous birthdayl 
SENIOR MEN MOST SENIOR WOMEN ARE WILLING TO PAY FOR HALF 
TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING ... ISN'T VERY GOOD. SMC Addiction Week Feb. 29-Mar. 3 STAY TUNED FOR DETAILS 
G$t your date now 
Get your date today 

Don't mlas the SYR ol the year 
PE'a Monte Carlo Nlghtl 

TO MV, I never really got a chance to reveal mysell HELP Ill Secret admirer-PK D.C. ClUB BUS SIGNUPS Departuna: Fri. March 11 at 9 P.M. from library circle Arrival: March 12 at approxi­mately 9 A.M. In D.C. Return: Sat. March 19 at 9 P.M. from Greyhound Slatlon In D.C. Arrive at NO: Sun. March 20 at approx. 9 A.M. Coat; $75 Roundtrip •••siGNUPs••• Mon. Feb 29 at 7 PM In Lafortune ?'a cell' Ed at 1474 
NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH PADRE,TX FOR SPRING BREAK HELP CALL T.J. AT 2053 LATE EVENING 
TO THE GUY IN THE GREEN SWEATER IN LAFORTUNE TUESDAY NIGHT, I THOUGHT YOU WERE COOL UNTIL I SAW YOU DRINKING THAT COKE. GET A CLUE, JUST SAY NOIII 
Ay, ay, ay, ay, Woody's got a woodyllli Ay, ay, ay, ay, Woody's got a woody I Ill 
VIEJA---Here's your cheesy suprise. THe past few months have been great. Here's your lirst parsonal for memories ol the past and lor the luture. Big city girls aren't all that bad Love always, VIEJO 
THE KILLING FIELDS Come see this Oscar Award winning movie! 
7:00 At the ETS Theater in the Center for Continuing Education 
This Friday, the 26th ADMISSION FREEIIIIIII 
To my bumble rabbit Thanks lor the last 6 months I love you Your bunny ther­mometer 
KNOCK 'EM DEAD IN BENGAL BOUTS -B MIKE CASSETTA Luv Your Fans 
The Groovy Travelers need bass, drums, and vocals. No skill necessary. Discover the beautiful side of violent dementia. No metai.Prime in­lluanoes: Neil Diamond, Throbbing Gristle. Call Rick at 1303. 
In the name of the father ,son and MRS.BROSHAY.. W1sh BETH MAUS '8 · HAPPY 19 today .. -S,M,M 
ST. PAT'S DAY A WEE BIT EARLYIII ST. PAT'S DAY A WEE BIT EARL Y!ll WHERE IS THE LEPRECHAUN??? HELP RECOVER HIMII REWARD OF­FERED. LOOK FOR CLUES STARTING NEXT TUESDAY IN THE OBSERVER Ill 
FRANK: Will you go to the ST. PAT'S BALL With me? The Pub. Woman 
P.S. Yes this is for real 
Catch The Wave: Coke 

What's Important Did we have fun? The Patriot 
Hera We Go Again 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY CINDYI HAVE A GREAT DAYI WE LOVE YOUI 
To The Short Blond Good luck with the Irish Thing 

Mr. Help 
Hey, The Bear Says Hll 
VINCE -Happy Birthday to my tavorite "cheesehead". Do I hear 21 shots calling your name? Have a great weekend! Don't lorget ALL your raingearll Love, The J­Wrestlerl! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUZI CRIQUI FROM THE MEN OF SORIN COLLEGE 
CHRISTINA-What are you going to do when the Irish destrpy Vandy on Sat. nile? -KEN 
BP SPIRIT WEEK III ... JUST 48 HOURS AND BP WILL BE CELEBRATING! HOPE TO SEE YOU AT THE COOK­OUT ON SUNDAY TO GET THINGS ROLLING! THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE BPI 
LEE, GOOD LUCK IN THE BENGALSIII KEEP YOUR HANDS UP AND REMEM­BER WOMEN MAKE WEAK KNEES. GO YOUNG GIDIII STANFORD 4TH FLOOR 
MISS McGINITY AND MISS COX--­ENOUGH IS ENOUGH I SHAKE HANDS AND END THE SLANDERINGII 
You must have just drank that water too last On that unknown day when you proposed at last. A "3 pt" shot and you're on your back You looked so tine on that luggage rack. There is no ring aHer racquetball, but how can I resist your new lound leg crawl? So now it is final the priest has been told but when is the honeymoon, should I be so bold? 
Tara, En deux semalnes je te verral. Je ne peux pa attendre! Je t'alme, Etienne 
HE TOOK MINN. AND S.D. AND NOW IT'S OFF TO SWEEP THE SOUTHI BOB DOLE FEVER, CATCH 1T1 
ANNA DUKER, It's nice not to have a terminal disease OOLORENCE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! MY DOUBLE MINT 
TWYN 
YOU'RE THE BESTII I LUV YOU--CARl 
MELEAH, CONGRATULATIONS ON LONDON! IT MAY NEVER BE THE SAME. WE ARE VERY PROUD OF YOU. LOVE, MOM, DAD, MARK, JEFF & BUCK 
THEREI;lA. 
The little things mean so much. It was the best sandwich I ever had. 
Andy 
SMC ADDICTION WEEK FEB 29 -MAR. 4 Lectures on nutntion, alcohol, relation­ships, and smok1ng. Come and listenl 
MARGARET COX IS A NICE GIRL. 
"Buolneao & Society In Japan" Optional Cnadllf'lnanclal Aid lnternallonal lnternahlp Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 let Ave. S.aHie, WA 96104 (206) 823-5539 
M.C.B. AND M.E.G. ARE ON DIETS II 
SMC ADDICTION WEEK FEB. 29 -MAR. 4 SMC ADDICTION WEEK 
HELPII I NEED A RIDE HOME FOR SPRING BREAKI CAN LEAVE-RETURN ANYTIME! ANYWHERE NEAR PHILADELPHIA, ALLENTOWN, OR READING, PAl CALL AILEEN AT 289­1435. WILL SHARE $$$$. 
John, It tonight is as much tun as last night's study lounge ... no, it couldn't pos­sibly be. Could It? Maybe it we stayed out till 77 See you soon I 
HEY SMC CASS OF 91 TAKE A WALK ON THE WILD SIDE AND VOTE FOR THE BELIN TICKET. GOOD THINGS COME IN SMALL PACKAGES. GOOD LUCK MAGS, KATH, KERRY, & DEBBIE -Y'ALL ARE OUT OF CONTROLI LOVE -YOUR NO FAN 
HEY SPIKE -CAN I BE YOUR BODYGUARD WHEN YOU WIN? OH YEAH, I FORGOT -YOU ALREADY HAVE ELEPHANT PRESUREI HAVE AN AWESOME DAYIII 
BETTY 
Thanks tor your insights Tell Jimmy he can borrow my scarf anytime 
ATTENTION LOU WEBER I "YOUR THE BEST" (Juat ..k MS) HAPPY 22ND B-DAY 
LOU, Did you really think we torgot your b-day? Well, we didn't. We just wanted to trick you. Watch out this weekendl HAPPY 22ND B-DAYI 
TICKET FOR SALE SPRING BREAK ROUNDTRIP SOUTHBEND-TAMPA $200 KATY £284-5049 OR LEAVE MESSAGE 
INSANE. 
DON'T FORGET YOUR TICKETS FOR PURLIEI 

r------------------­
page 14 The Observer 
First Alex Wilson Invite 
attracts 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
After an impressive fourth­place finish in last weekend's Indiana Intercollegiates held at Purdue, Notre Dame's track team returns home to the Loftus Center for Saturday's Alex Wilson Invitational. · 
The meet, named in honor of former head track coach Alex Wilson, should to prove to be "even better than the first one we had here," Irish head coach Joe Piaile said. 
The meet features represen­tatives from 17 schools, includ­ing Georgetown, Villanova, Purdue, St. John's and DePaul. 
"This should prove to be a very good meet," said Piane. "We asked the teams to bring only their best runners, so it should be a very fast meet." 
Many of the teams are sen­ding their athletes in hopes of qualifying them for the IC4A's, which are in two weeks. 
"This facility alone will at­tract the top runners in the country," added Piane. 
Colorado hands Irish tennis loss 
By GEORGE TRAVERS • Sports Writer 
The hobbled Notre Dame men's tennis team suffered its fourth loss of the spring season as they fell to Colorado 6-3 at the Eck Pavillion. The Irish are now 6-4. 
The key to-the match was the singles competition. The only Irish singles win came from senior Dan Walsh. Walsh topped Colorado's Ryan Wal­lace in straight sets 6-3,6-4. Walsh has played superbly all year and remains the only un­defeated Notre Dame singles player. 
In other action, Brian Kalbas lost in number one singles to Jim Johnson 6-4, 6-4 and George Spiska defeated Notre Dam,e's Ryan Wenger 6-3, 6-4. Irish senior Sean O'Brien lost in number four singles to Jonas Larsson of Colorado. 
Due to injuries to Paul Daggs and Mike Wallace, Coach Bayliss was forced to start two inexperienced freshmen. David Kuhlman and Paul Od­land both played well but lost. 
Notre Dame managed to take two of the three doubles matches played Thursday. The team of Kalbas and Wenger won 7-5, 6-4 and the tandem of Walsh and Daggs trounced Colorado's Spiska and Kullick 6-3, 6-3. 
Coach Bayliss feels his team was hurt by injuries, although there are no excuses. 
" Anytime you walk onto the court you are healthy," said Bayliss. "We said all year we possessed depth and this was our chance to prove it. With ex­perience, our reserves will im­prove." 
This weekend the Irish con­
tinue their difficult schedule 
with matches against Cincinatt 
and Bowling Green. Notre 
Dame beat both teams last 
year, but Bayliss feels both 
teams have improved. The 
matches are at 9:00 a.m. and 
1:00 p.m. respectively, at the Eck Pavillion. 
talented field 
The meet features some of the country's top runners. Dan Trautman of Georgetown already has qualified for the Olympic trials in the mile. Trautman has posted a 3:41 in the 1,500 meters this season. 
. David Moore of Pitt is within nine-hundredths of a second in qualifying for the NCAA Cham­pionships in the 800. Moore has run a 1:50.59 already this season. Pittsburgh also fea­tures a long jumper who con­sistently leaps over 24 feet. 
The Irish will be the only team with most of its athletes competing. For most of the Irish athletes the meet will be their last one of the indoor season. 
"Most of our guys are using the meet to put up good times in preparation of the· outdoor season," said Piane. "For a few it's preparation for the IC4A's." 
Notre Dame is relying on key performances by several ath­letes. 
Sophomore Mike O'Connor will be the mile for the Irish, an event which should prove to be the most competi­tive race of the day. There will be four runners in the race who have run under 4:08. 
Sophomore Glenn Watson is · looking to have another big day in the high hurdles. 
Senior Dan Cahill and junior Mike O'Rourke will be compet­ing in the 3,000 meters. The two will be looking to continue the success which the Irish have recently enjoyed under senior co-captain Dan Garrett and junior Ron Markezich, who are resting for the IC4A's. 
One of the most important races of the meet for the Irish will be the 55-meter sprint, where senior Tony Ragunas is returning from an injury. 
"Tony could very well qualify for the IC4A's," said Piane. 
Also looking to have a good day is sophomore shot putter Rob Fitzgerald, who is "throw­ing as well as he ever has," Piane said. 
The meet begins Saturday at 11 a.m. with the field events. The running events follow at 1. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30 pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 for Building Improvement Fund) TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS. WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: 9) 284-9190 
LAST CHANCE 
TO GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER For the 
~ 
LIP-SYNC CONTEST 
f Saturday, March 5 

$200. GRAND PRIZE!!! 


*Interested acts contact Maura x27 45 or Mark x1184 by Monday, Feb. 29. Sponsored by SUB & Theodore's 
Poor shooting costly as· Taylor dumps SMC 
By HEATHER ATKIN­SON Sports Writer 
Taylor University defeated the Saint Mary's basketball team Tuesday, 69-55. 
The Belles got off to a poor start, as Taylor took . an early 11-4 lead and stretched that margin to 37-20 at the half. The Belles attempted to reorganize during the second half and did to a cer­tain extent. They cut the lead to 10 points twice during the second half, but could not pull together to get any closer. 
"Taylor played excellent defense throughout the game, but we just weren't able to catch up," Belles Co­ach Marvin Wood said. "This was the poorest game we've played since Christmas Break. All of the girls who traveled to Taylor and got playing time really got into the game, but we just couldn't turn it around once we got behind." 
Saint Mary's poor shoot­ing made the difference in the loss. At the half, the Belles were 10-of-35 for 29 percent and shot only 35 per­cent the entire game. 
Senior Donna Wolf was the only player for Saint Mary's in double figures with 16 points. Anne Galiger pulled down five rebounds to lead the Belles and Rachel Bir and Wolf each contributed three assists. 
The Belles will play their final game of the season tonight against Aquinas at Grand Michigan. 

~~~~~~~ 


Tonight 

9:.30-2:00 
Campus DJ's Bryan Rao and Marty Crowe will play your favorites, so come on up and DANCE! 
Saturday 

9:.30-2:00 
ISO event-check it out 
Sunday Special 
12:00-6:00 

It's SUBS, SUBS, SUBS Build them how you like them only $2.00 
~*****************~ 
.. -1l


t Leap into the..,. 
t 
Record Books • on Leap Day, ~ *Feb. 29 ~ 
-«Be a part of Notre Dame's 
• attempt to set the « intercollegiate record for 
LEAP FROG 
4:30 pm South Quad « Registration begins at 4:00 _. in front of O'Shag.
.This kicks off an entire week of events to "celebrate St. Patrick's Day a wee-bit
I
t early" Sponsored by SUB, , Classes of '89, '90, '91 
~

.._...................~ 

~--~-~-----. 
Friday, February 26, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Today's Events 
ABC Coverage 
8:00p.m. to 11:00 p.m. 
Ice Hockey Soviet Union vs. Sweden Alpine Skiing Women's Slalom Speed Skating Women's 1,000 Meters Short Track Speed Skating 
11:30 p.m. to Midnight Daily Recap 
Source: Associated Press 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
. "THE" 
YOU ARE OUR FAVO..RITE BIG TOE 
LOVE ALWAYS, 
us 
Women's tennis 
•

ND faces test 1n Illinois 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
Last weekend, the members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team learned a great deal about themselves. This weekend, as they travel to Champaign, Ill., to take on Miami (Ohio) and Illinois, the Irish get the chance to show the rest of the NCAA everything they know. 
The Notre Dame women, 5-4 after Thursday's 7-1 loss to Colorado, seek to avenge last season's 3-5 and 1-8 defeats at the hands of the Fighting Illini and the Redskins, respectively. 
The only match the Irish managed to win against Colorado was at number-three doubles, as Kathy Bradshaw and Jackie Uhll survived a marathon against Birgit Fink­Jensen and Patty Borbite by 6­4, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5) scores. 
Miami has proven to be an increasingly painful thorn in the sides of the Irish, who have dropped five of their last six decisions to the Redskins. 
Coach Michele Gelfman at­tributes Miami's continued success against her team to both great depth and splendid coaching. Nevertheless, she expects quite different results this year. 

"They always have a strong team," Gelfman said, "but I anticipate that we'll do much better against them than in the past" 
Illinois, meanwhile, looks to match up quite well with Notre Dame. If past scores are any indication, the Illini are certain to present the Irish netters with yet another difficult challenge. 
"We should be just about even with Illinois," says Gelfman. "We almost always beat them 5-4 or lose to them by a score of 5-4. I'd like to think we'll win by a greater margin this time." 
What then, must the Irish do if they are to come away with two victories this weekend? 
"We'll have to go all out and not hold anything back," Gelfman replied. "We need to come out strong at the top. We'll have to change up our games more effectively and work as a team instead of as individuals." 


ND '61
ironwood wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported winPs heers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
I i'2') NOFntl IRONWOOD DR. SOLITfi .m:ND, IN .fli6.~') 

Strangely enough, tennis is one of the few sports which seems to promote individual play. At present, CeCe Cahill plays in the number-one singles position for the Irish, senior captain Michelle Dasso fills the number-two spot, Alice Lohrer plays at number three, and Kim Pacella, Natalie Illig, and Cathy Bradshaw comprise pos­itions four through six, respec­tively. 
In doubles play, Cahill and Dasso compete in the top posi­tion, Lohrer and Illig perform in the second position, and the combination of Pacella and Bradshaw play at number three. In keeping with Gelfman's policy that no spot in the lineup is "etched in stone," even these pairings may be subject to change. 
Last weekend, the Notre Dame women proved they could effectively combat ad­versity--and win. On Saturday, perhaps still feeling the effects of their 5-4 victory over previ­ously undefeated Michigan State, the Irish struggled against partisan crowds and a tough Wisconsin team, in what may have been their most frustrating loss of the season. 
"Wisconsin was a better team than we were," admitted Gelfman. "However, the scores were not indicative of the way we played. Being on their home court involved an intimidation factor that never should have been." 
Following the debacle at Wis­consin, Gelfman called the ladies together for a long team meeting. Apparently, that talk had a most astounding impact on the Irish, who rebounded to crush Furman 9-0 the following day. This time, intimidation was no longer a factor. 
"I thought things looked pretty even between the two teams," remarked a vind­icated Gelfman. "Both of us were visitors at a different facility, so we didn't have the crowd factor like we did at Wis­consin." 
The victory was particularly pleasing in light of the previous day's events as well as Fur­man's strong showing in an earlier 4-5loss to Western Mic­higan. 
-------------~ ~----~-­
page 16 The Observer Hockey faces Lake Forest 

McNeill 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Having played like a group of matinee idols all season, the 23-4-2 Notre Dame hockey team closes its regular season and home schedule with a Saturday matinee against American Col­legiate Hockey Association rival Lake Forest. 
The Irish, who hold a 5-3-2 conference record, play at Lake Forest on Friday night. Action shifts to the Joyce ACC on Saturday, where the Irish meet the Foresters at 3 p.m. The Foresters are on a six­game winning streak. Notre Dame had its 14-game string snapped last weekend, as the Irish were swept by Michigan­Dearborn. 
"Lake Forest is a good hockey team, and they're playing well at the end of the year," said first-year Irish co­ach Ric Schafer. "We're going to have to play some good sound defensive hockey." 
If Notre Dame avoids getting swept by Lake Forest (12-9-1, 4-5-1 in the ACHA), the Irish will finish the regular season in second place in the ACHA (behind Michigan-Dearborn). Notre Dame already is set to face the Foresters in the first round of the ACHA Tourna­ment next weekend. 
The series will include the last home game for senior cap­tain Mike McNeill, Notre Dame's biggest matinee idol. McNeill, a South Bend native and graduate of South Bend St. Joseph's High School, has led the Irish in scoring for the last three seasons. But the McNeill name was known around South Bend long before Mike enrolled at Notre Dame. 
His father, Tim McNeill, is a former Notre Dame assistant coach, and Mike McNeill still remembers going to Irish hockey games during the "glory days" of the program, before it was dropped to club status for the 1983-84 season. 
"They were so much fun. They had stands all around this rink," McNeill recalls. "I'd go out with eight or 10 buddies of mine, and it was just a lot of fun. It was kind of like the Air Force weekend this year. Wis­consin would come up and bring 2000 fans of their own. It was crazy." 
McNeill wasn't just a spec­tator during his pre-college days. He starred in football, baseball and hockey for the St. Joe Indians, and made the In­diana All-State teams in all three sports. McNeill's high school prowess earned him a spot in Sports Illustrated's "Faces in the Crowd" feature. 
Mter deciding to attend 
Join The Observer 


reverses roles 
Notre Dame, the major deci­sion for McNeill was choosing which sport to play in college. Mter playing hockey and baseball during his freshman year, he finally decided to con­centrate solely on hockey. 
"My sophomore year, I played fall baseball and hock­ey, and it seemed like we were traveling everywhere," said McNeill. "After the last series, I was just tired and worn out. I was thinking 'There's no way I can swing a bat next week.' Hockey's always been number one, but I'm disappointed I had to give up one of them." 
McNeill also realizes that leaving the baseball team might have helped his hockey. 
"Last summer I was playing hockey in Minnesota," said McNeill. "That was the first summer I'd played and 'it's really helped. If I'd stuck with baseball, I'm sure I'd have been playing that in the sum­mer." 
The senior captain responded with his best season ever for the Irish. Mter averag­
Friday, February 26, 1988 
The Observer I Pat Kusek 
Senior captain Mike McNeill, a South Bend native who once watched Irish hockey as a boy, now leads Notre Dame as the squad finishes 
three weeks ago, and he hopes his hockey career isn't about to end. 
"I can't see myself next year playing in the NHL, but with the experience of tryout camp and one or two seasons in the minors, there's a possibility," McNeill said. "I'll just take if as far as I can. I'm also pos­sibly thinking of going to Europe for a year, maybe two." 
Schafer has noticed the tal­ents of his star center and is quick to point them all out. 
"He has such good hockey sense," said Schafer. "He can read what's going to happen, can react and has all the nec­essary skills. He's a fast 
; skater, so he can get from point A to point B quickly, and he can beat one man or two men when he has to. He has a good shot, and he can hit the corners well. He's just a gifted hockey player.'' 
McNeill's talent and South Bend background make him a natural favorite of the local Irish hockey fans. The role is only natural for a player who still remembers when he was 





58th annual Bengal Bouts as assistant coach Jack 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY Hobbs" 
ISN'T THAT SPECIAL? LOVE, ALH·~YS, US 

Sign ups: Sunday Feb. 28 
12 noon -4pm. Great Hall of O'Shag $5 Entry Fee per Team 
ADWORKS 

Applications for Theodore's  Student  :;  
Managers  for  the  1988-89  
~ichool year are now available in the Office of Student Activities.  •••••••• !I'  
They must be turned in by  
Monday, Feb. 29  •••••••  

The Observer page 17 
~need someone with the ronfidenceofa ~' 
thededication ot amarathonerandthe rourageofanexplorer. 
We lleed a Ptac~ Corp~ 'o'olunteer Call us all-800--424-8580, Ext. 9\. 


HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 
Tom Pichette 
"Now you can legally demand your rights" 
From: Mom, Dad, Spot, Craig 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 

: ~ ~ 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-·SERVICE···PARTS-·ACCESSORIES 
• CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY' OPEN TUES 9AM • 7PM • OPEN WED-SAT 9AM ·5:30PM 
Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks Parts & Service Available Students $26.95 
ROSELAND 277-8866 
with ad cut-out 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 
Bell rings for 58th Bengal Bouts 
By BRIAN O'GARA and MATT BRADLEY Sports Writers 
The bell will soon sound for the opening match of the 58th annual Bengal Bouts, begin­ning this Sunday at 1:30 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
Over 80 boxers will step into the ring during this weeklong tournament of the Notre Dame Boxing Club, which hopes to surpass the $18,000 raised during the Bengal Bouts last year. Proceeds from the Bouts go to the Holy Cross missions in Bangledesh. While outstand­ing competition is always found at Bengal Bouts, the 'fight to feed' is what continues to drive the Bengal Bouts as it has for over half a century. 
Non-varsity boxing was first brought to Notre Dame by Knute Rockne in 1923. This competition was developed eight years later into the Ben­gal Bouts by a man whose name would become synonymous with the Bengal Bouts for the next 55 years -­Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano. 
"Nappy" fought under 
Rockne and coached in the first 
Bengal Bouts. After graduat­
ing from Notre Dame in 1932, 
he coordinated the Bengal 
Bouts until his death in 1986. 
Last year's tournament was 
dedicated to his memory. 
This year's tournament 
begins this Sunday with two 
sessions, beginning at 1:30 p.m. 
and 7:30p.m. Semifinal rounds 
will be contested on Wednesday 
at 7:30p.m. and the finals are 
scheduled for next Friday at 8 
p.m. 
Lt. Commander Steve Duffy, 
a 1974 Notre Dame graduate 
who was killed on July 12, 1987 
in a plane crash performing 
naval manuevers, is the post­
humous recipient of the annual 
"Bengal Bouts Award," pre­
sented annually to an outstand­
ing contributer to boxing. Duf­
fy, whose widow will accept the 
award at a ceremony Sunday, 
won a Bengal Bouts champion­
ship in an upset win over a four­
time finalist in 1974. 
Over 190 students began 
training for the Bengal Bouts 
seven weeks ago and when the 
final weigh-ins are complete 
and the pairings completed 
today, approximately 90 will 
remain. Depending on the 
weight distributions, there will 
be anywhere from 10 to 16 
weight divisions. 
"We've got a really good 
group of boxers out this year," 
said Boxing Club President 
Kevin Duggan. "We had a big 
group come out at first and a 
lot dropped out, but more stuck 
with it than usual. And the key 
is they came out in good shape, 
so we've been able to work on 
a lot more technique this year 
rather than conditioning. So we 
should see a lot of good move­
ment and good defense rather 
than just brawling." 
There are six defending champions in this year's Ben­gal Bouts, including two-time champions John 'The Captain' Uhll and Michael 'High' Noone. Noone is seeking to notch his third title in the lightweight division en route to joining the elite group of four-year cham­pions. Other defending cham­pions include Kevin 'The Vigilante' Duggan (Jr. Lightweight), Greg 'Skid' Rowe ( Cruiserweight) and Tim 'TH' Hartigan (Jr. Welter­weight). 
Revenge is on the mind of two past champions, Dan 'The Anchor Man' Gamache and Dan 'The Man' Quinn. Gamache dropped a split deci­sion in the Lt. Heavyweight finals last spring after winning in 1986. Quinn pulled off an up­set win as a freshman in 1986 over defending super heavyweight champion Pernell 'Big Train' Taylor, but lost by unanimous decision to Taylor last March. 
Standing in the way of Quinn's revenge is freshman Brian Shannon. Shannon is a 6-5 linemen for the Irish who sat out the football season with a leg injury, while Quinn stands 6-3 and is a junior outside linebacker for the Irish. 
Freshman tailback Ricky Watters is boxing in this year's tournament, and, according to Panelli, is "as quick in the ring as he is on the field." 
Tickets for the three days of matches are available at the door and at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. 



~ --------~--­
page 18 The Observer Friday, February 26, 1988 
Irish take on NSC rival DePaul 


By JEFF HEILERT Sports Writer 
DePaul is looking to sweep this year's basketball series with Notre Dame. The men have already taken two and the women's team has a chance to do the same. 
On Sunday afternoon, the Notre Dame women host the Lady Blue Demons in a critical North Star Conference game. 
DePaul enters the contest ranked 22nd nationally in addi­tion to holding the top spot in the conference with a perfect 7-0 mark. While the conference title is at stake, a possible NCAA bid may overshadow its importance. 
Earlier this season, the Lady Blue Demons posted an 80-77 victory over the Irish. That loss has set the stage for Notre Dame's NCAA chances. Accor­ding to Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw, an Irish vic­tory on Sunday is crucial. 
Diana VInes and the DePaul Blue Demons face a streaking Notre "This is a must game for the Dame women's basketball team Sunday afternoon In a big North NCAA's," said McGraw, Star Conference game. Jeff Hellert previews the contest at right. "because they couldn't take us
Witt wins; Thomas is still ahead 
Associated Press 
CALGARY -Katarina Witt, looking for her second straight Olympic gold medal, won the short program in women's fig­ure skating Thursday night, but still trails Debi Thomas in the overall competition. 
Witt, performing ahead of So­viet compulsory figures winner Kira Ivanova and Thomas, skated a bouncy program to Broadway tunes including "Hello, Dolly." 
Ivanova then fell and so did her standings. 
Thomas, second in the school figures, was next and per­formed an exciting display of jumps, including a difficult double loop-triple toe loop. 
The 1986 world champion beat or tied Witt for technical merit with all nine judges and the sellout crowd at the Olym­pic Saddledome went wild. 
But those cheers quickly turned to boos when the artistic marks were flashed. Only the American and Japanese judges gave Thomas first-place votes for the program. 
Thomas sat motionless, but Alex McGowan, her coach, waved his hand in frustration and held his nose, saying, "No way, No way. It stinks." 
Although Witt did not lead through two disciplines, the 22­year-old ice queen from East Germany was in command. 

This week at the Snite: Friday, February 26, 7:30 & 9:30 pro TEMPOPO (1987) 
An under.;tated farce about noodlss, pleasurw, and the movies. 
Monday, February 29, 
Tuesday, March 1 
7:00 pm 
7:00 pro 
LOVE ME TONIGHT 
Avantgarde Series 
THE GREAT
A musical with jeanette 
McDonald & Maurice 
BLONDINO 
Chevalier 
9:00pm
9:00pm 
STORY OF A 
THE DRAUGHTSMAN'S 
LOVE AFFAIR
CONTRACT 
Antonioni's fir.;t feature, 
A tale of murder set in 1694. based on film noir. 
Individual admission 2.00 


With the support of the Indiana Arts Commission 
a: the National Endowment for the Arts 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Friday, Feb. 26th 
8 P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
Tlcket;s $1 0.00, Students $5.00 Available at the Box Office 


ADWOilKS 
if we don't win the conference. If you concentrate too much I think DePaul is a longshot on Vines, DePaul has other clef­anyway because they don't inite scoring threats. Sopho­play anyone. We feel like if we more guard Veronica Ross has win on Sunday and then win the been playing extremely well of rest of our games, we'll go be-late. Ross tossed in 27 points in cause of the strength of our an 87-80 win at Brigham Young. schedule and our record at 22-"Ross is a good athlete," said 6." McGraw. "I think she had 16 
DePaul brings an uptempo or 17 against us last time. She run-and-shoot team led by was Player of the Week in the junior Diana Vines. The All-conference two weeks ago." America candidiate is averag-The Lady Blue Demons are ing 24.0 points and 12.3 10th in the nation in scoring, rebounds a game. In the first averaging over 82 points a meeting, Vines led the Lady game. Their transition game Blue Demons with 27 points, caused the Irish problems in and stopping her is a hot topic the last meeting. of conversation among North "They are all great ath-Star Conference coaches. letes," McGraw said. "That is 
"We are just going to try and their advantage. I think they have someone on her all the got 22 points in transition last time in the zone," said time, and 20 offensive McGraw. "We were going to rebounds. So we have to stop try and box-and-one her, but we their break. That is going to be really don't have anyone good a key." enough tostay with her." Tip-off is 2 p.m. in the JACC. 


lfyou have a~ but are low on $$$ 
We may have a job for you 
The Observer is looking for a dependable, trustworthy, 
person (with a car) to pick up photos from the South 
Bend Tribune and deliver them to our office every 
weekday afternoon. 
If you're looking for a steady source of income-without 
a huge time commitment-this could be the job for you. 
Interested? Contact Chris Donnelly at The Observer 
office for more information. 
IllALUMNI 
SENIOR 
~CLUB 
v-\ 

FRIDAY 
GlANT SOUVENlR CUP 


FlLL WITM 'VOUR FA'iORrTE DRAf'T fOR 75~ 
IRISH HURRICANE 75¢. 
'-" SATURDAY r-v 
&EN,OR FO~MAL 
"1 NEED A DATE'' 
NlGHT 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 75¢ 
MILLER ::~~~~e~~~~ '1 
RAFFLE DR~WIN~ A.'T MIDNI~MT I 


Coupon for one FREE Ride on the Buzz Bus. Friday and Saturday Nights 12-3 am 
Schedule 
Campus V1ewt

F1ve Po1nts
Senlo• 

Howard & N.D. Matn SMC library Turtle Creek
ClutJ (Goodwill I 
St.Louis ~partments Circle Hoi~ Cross Circle pv~ & Vaness) 
12:00 12:03 12 07 12:1(1 12:14 12-18 12:22 12:25 
12:30 12:33 12·37 12:t'{l 12:44 12:48 12:52 12 55 
1:00 1:03 1:07 1:10 1:1-1 1:18 1:22 1:25 1:30 1:33 
1:37 1:40 1:44 1:48 1:52 1:55 
2:00 203 2:07 2:10 2:14 2:18 2:22 2:25 2:30 2:33 2:37 2:40 2:44 
2:~8 2:52 ? ~~ 

25~ 

Campus 
Friday 
4:30p.m.: Mathematics Colloquium, "Simulation of Flow in Naturally Fractured Porous Media," by Professor Jim Douglas, Purdue University, Room 214 Com­puting CenteDMath Building. 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Tem­popo," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey vs. Lake Forest, Joyce ACC Ice Arena. 8 p.m.: Harlem Globetrotters, tickets $10 and $8.50, JACC. 8 p.m.: Sophomore Literary Festival, Paule Marshall, Library Auditorium. 8 p.m.: SMC Performing Arts Series preseAts "PuFlie," O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Saturday 
9 a.m.: Tennis vs. Cincinnati, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 11 a.m.: Alex Wilson Track Invitational, JACC Fieldhouse. 1 p.m.: Tennis vs. Bowling Green, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 7 p.m.: Basketball vs. Vanderbilt, JACC. 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey vs. Lake Forest, JACC Ice Arena. 
Sunday 
2 p.m.: Women's Basketball vs. DePaul, JACC. 4 p.m.: Music Department Concert, Stephen Miller, faculty guitar recital, An­
nenberg Auditorium.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grilled Cheese •  Manicotti  
Fried Fish Platter  Baked Breaded Perch  
Potato Boats  Cheese Enchiladas  
Linguini & Vegetables  Deli Bar  

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDim STOPPED DRINKING AND HIVING. 
. l ~ .., 1 I\. ,.
•·f · I , ' )#-· I , ~. ' ' ~ .'I . .. .J~ ... -/ / l
1 \,~ ·-~---~v
./'/ , ·~· "/
~ ' -"--"l u '· ,>
-·~-:J~ ..... -·~ 
DOtll'fCMIIVI Dfltl•a,OIIII'IOl WlfliA.'fOIIf WMO'oOl\ 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Mrs. Nixon 4 False god 8 Drinks to 
excess 13 Metals 15 Bird shelter 16 Conch or 
abalone 17 Actor Richard 18 Director Kazan 19 Kerchief 20 Indoor game 23 Oozing 24 Weaves hair 27 Beef or 
mutton 30 -Paul 
Kruger 31 Actor John 35 Lawyer: abbr. 36 Celebes ox 37 Indoor game 41 Roman robe 42 -Aviv 43 Severe 
-..
44 Shoshonean 45 Curare source © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
02/26/88
All Rights Reserved
48 One 

50 Voucher 55 Indoor game 21 Chill con ­58 Copycats 22 Relax 60 Topnotch 25 Entrances 61 Weather word 26 Big hit 62 Endorser 28 Diamond 63 Follow crystal 
secretly 29 Ordinal suffix 64 Robert -31 Misbehave 65 Cornered 32 Weaned pig: 66 Rainbows var. 67 Food scrap 33 Golden-brown 
stone 

DOWN 34 -nutshell 1 Ballads (briefly) 2 Debate 36 Alias 3 Twit letters 4 Glacial epoch 38 Tin: pref. 

5 -up (dressed 
to kill) 6 Auricular 7 Jacob's wife 8 Undergarment 9 Writer John 
10 Hireling 11 Wapiti 12 Cunning 14 Small cut 
39 Always In poems 40 Bol. plain 45 Balanced 
48 Peaceful 
47 Outlaws 
49 Binge 53 One busily 57 Icy cover of a 
51 Raison d'-employed kind 
52 Of a country: 54 Dogma 58 Clever pref. 58 See you later 59 Golf term 
-
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Calvin and Hobbes 
1\£'( OOt-\1 FIX 00, l'D ~E.U..Cl, ooa~ ~ 
-"'1\\t.~.

TIIAT RlR DI~NER' CALL ~QIJR I'M G.Wt{G mt. 1\Mt. 'tliU.. 0\Dtn MOM IXKIClR n\tN! ABAA Cf>..\.IJIN'S 8£6:27 M-ID 
'f1J HOSB£S DIE\t\R~ Nt£DS . \Cl st.<ni'U>S. ~NO I t..Rt. 00 ;~fiHP:~ f>.. stRICT \ BIG MAC. 
j

DIET? ITS oomR:s 
~! 


• 
Bill Watterson 
BM> ~t.'tlS, G\.IJI\\1. ~OUR DOC\~R SMS ~()U ~\lt>.'l£ ~ ~Rll ot G.c:;mR Clll 

l
~\) LIE ~~ t>,\L ~~MG. 
I 
I\£ DID? 
~? 
I 

~.\l£ l>\01\T. 
I \)\0 1-\£? 
i 

'fi~I'S C/6~ 
z-21.# 

0\L? Hominid reconstructions 

~-··· 

-----~-­
Sports 

1988
page 20 
ND topples Valpo; Botham scores 26 

It's time to choose college basketball's elite 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
VALPARAISO -Some other team showed up for the first 15 minutes of last night's women's 
. basketball game. Battling for recognition i,n the form of a post-season tournament bid, the real Irish showed up a little bit late. 
It wasn't the 5-18 Valparaiso Crusaders out on their home 
... -court early in the game either . It was a two-woman gang of Stephanie Greer and Wendy Smith, tossing in buckets like crazy to lead the Crusaders over the Irish in the early going. 
When the real Irish got into the game, they put together one of the best halves of basketball they've played all season against a fired-up Crusader team. The real team routed Valpo 91-56. Talent won out over determination in this one, and the Crusaders proved that determination does not equal endurance. 
~ The "They (Valparaiso) came 
Sandy Botham, who goes up for two In a game Dame women's basketball team crushed Valpo out well," said McGraw. "We 
earlier this year, scored 26 points as the Notre Thursday night. · saw them do that before 
against DePaul. I think they 
.. have about ten good minutes in them, and then they break
ND baseball rallies at Duke, 
down."

• With 4: 44 to go in the first half, the Irish took the lead 29­
WinS opener by 14-11 score 
Special to the Observer less bottom of the sixth. With the tying run at the _plate Pas-
The Notre Dame baseball team won its first season­opener in eight years Thursday as it outscored Duke 14-11 at Durham, N.C. 
With the Blue Devils lea<;ling 11-10 in the top of the sixth, first baseman Tim Hutson gave the Irish the lead for good when he singled home Dan Peltier and Mike Moshier. Pinch hitter Ed Lund and shortstop Pat Pesavento each added RBI singles in the inning to round
.. 
Tim Hutson
out the scoring. 

Mike Passilla earned the silla got the Duke player to hit save when he pitched a score-
into a 4-3 double play. 
With the basketball season entering the stretch, it's time to start picking all-Americans. Ballots for the USBWA All-America and All-District teams were due this past Tuesday, and the jockeying for post-season accolades is just as intense as the jock­eying for tournament seeds. 
Schools all around the country are sending out brochures, posters and other items touting their candidates. These range from the standard photo, stats and quotes about the player to weekly picture postcards with updated information (Bradley's 
Hersey Hawkins) to a deflated basketball. The latter comes from Temple which is touting 
shot-blocking phenom Tim Perry, who through S rt Ed"t 
Monday was sixth in the nation in blocked shots per -•p•o-.s--•.o.r
game with 3.4. A Perry block allowed the Owls to escape Penn State 50-49 last week. The ball comes with a small piece of paper which says ''Inspected and rejected by number 33 Tim Perry." 
Sorry, Tim, while yours is the best gimmick, you didn't make my team. Here's who did: On the lO-man All-District Team (this district in­cludes Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin 
• 
and Minnesota) are David Rivers, Michigan's Glen Rice and Gary Grant, Purdue's Todd Mitchell and Troy Lewis, Xavier's Byron Larkin, Indiana's Dean Garrett, Butler's Chad Tucker, Evansville's Marty Simmons, and Hawkins. My district Player of the Year choice was Rivers and my district coaching selection was Evansville's Jim Crews, who has guided the Aces to a 17-6 record so far this season. 
My first-team All-America choices were Rivers, Grant, Hawkins, Kansas' Danny Manning and Duke's Danny Ferry. Making the second team were Syracuse's Derrick Coleman, North Carolina's Jeff Lebo, Oklahoma's Harvey Grant, Arizona's Sean 
Dennis Corrigan 


Elliot and Pittsburgh's Jerome Lane, if for no other reason than for shattering that backboard. 
My National Coach of the Year was Arizona's Lute Olson and Freshman of the Year was Temple's Mark Macon. And my choice for National Player of the Year? "He's six foot, he's a senior, he's from Jersey City; New Jersey, his number is four, his name is David Rivers." 
If you've got ·a different idea of who's an all-American and who's not, here's your chance to vote on the first Observer All-America squad. Send us 28 on a basket by Cathy Emig­
Erik Madsen got the win, al­holz. The margin grew to 42-34 lowing two earned runs in 1 113 by the half and was up to 50-34 innings of relief for starter with two minutes gone in the Mike Harmon and Brian second frame. Piotrowicz. Then the Irish were up 20. 
In the top of the fourth, four And just like that, up 30. Duke errors led to six unearned The real Irish were back and ·runs as the Irish took a 10-3 better than ever against the lead. But the Blue Devils scrappy Crusaders. responded with seven runs in ''They were taking it to us the bottom half of the inning to and we were a little sloppy," tie the score, and a single tally McGraw said. "We dug a big in the fifth to take the lead. hole early and had a little trou­
Both Peltier and Hutson went ble getting out. I thought we did two-for-three with three RBI, a good job at the end of the half and Pesavento was three-for­and we came out really strong four and two RBI. in the second half." 
Notre Dame faces Duke Sandy Botham led the Irish again today, then faces Wake with 26 points, one fewer than Forest Saturday and Sunday. her career high, on 10-of-12 
your top 10 selections by Wednesday. The results will be printed in Friday's paper. Either mail your choices to P.O. Box Q, ATTN: Observer All­Americans, or drop them by The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune. 
Once again, Irish head coach Digger Phelps is making an appeal to the student body to be involved in Saturday night's game against Vanderbilt. It's a red-light game with ESPN's cameras on the scene along with Dick Vitale. The Irish student body has been taking some knocks of late from both the local media and, believe it or not, AI McGuire, who couldn't believe how quiet the Joyce Center was for parts of the UCLA game. This is a crucial game for the Irish. Although they're probably already in the NCAA tournament, a win over Vanderbilt will give them a lot of credibility. 
Game of the Week -Basketball mania runs ram­pant at the Joyce Center this weekend, with the men taking on 17th-ranked Vanderbilt Saturday night and the Irish women facing 22nd-rated and North Star Conference foe DePaul on Sunday at 2. 
But if you want to see some real running, head over to the Loftus All-Sports Center Saturday as the Irish indoor track team hosts the Alex Wilson Invitational. 
shooting. Emigholz did hit a career high in points, tossing in 14, many of which were on. fast break feeds from Mary Gavin. 
"The fast break worked tonight," McGraw said. "The key was the outlet pass. We got some great outlets and Mary (Gavin) and Karen (Robinson) handled the point really well." 
The Irish team handled the ball well, too. Already leading the nation in field goal percentage, the Irish shot 39 of 65 (60 percent) and used a great height advantage to out­rebound the Crusaders 48-28. 

Muffet McGraw 

Three other players hit double digits for the Irish on their way to 91 points. Heidi Bunek scored 13 and also brought down a team-high 10 rebounds. Sara Leibscher scored 12, and Lisa Kuhns added 10. 
The victory was the sixth straight for the Irish and the eighteenth win against six defeats. Despite falling behind early, the offensive perfor­mance was the most complete and balanced of the season. The Crusaders get credit for giving the Irish a little bit of a scare. 
"They have 10 good minutes where they go like crazy," said McGraw of the Crusaders. "Then they run out of gas. We thought they'd be a tough team, and they were for a while." 
When the real Irish team shows up to play, the opposition had better be ready to play for the entire 40 minutes. 
f 




