
• 
jACCENT: Visiting Professor Novak jVIEWPOINT: Health care: another view 


VOL. XXII NO 63 MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Revolt in Argentina over, army chief will resign 
Associated Press Dante Caridi and worked out The government had refused an agreement by which Seinel­to negotiate with the estimated 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina­din --not his men--accepted ni­500 rebels, who had seized an -The four-day revolt by sponsibility for the insurrec­infantry school at a military hundreds of hoavily armed sol­tion and Caridi would step base outside the capital on diers ended Sunday after the down as the army's top official, Friday, then moved to another army chief agreed to resign, news reports said. military installation--a heavily giving in to a rebel demand, Ar­The agreement was reported equipped arsenal--on Saturday. gentine news agencies said. At by the private Noticias Argen­Alfonsin had wide support to least one person was killed in tinass and Diarios y Noticias quell the third rebellion in the the rebellion. news agencies. Both cited poli­past 18 months and pledged to 
The army said in a com­tical and military sources. "suffocate" it. But government munique that insurgents who The rebels had demanded an troops repeatedly refused to at­were holed up at a military overhaul in the military tack or restrict the rebels' base just outside the capital hierarchy, a bigger military movements. agreed to give up their weapons budget, and an end to prosecu­One government military of­and explosives. tions for human rights abuses ficer, Gen. Adolfo Patricio 
On Sunday, medical officials committed during the 1976-83 Etcheun, said he and his men and news agencies reported at military dictatorships. agreed with Seineldin's least one demonstrator was It was not immediately demands and would not take up shot and killed by rebels, and known if any of the rebels' arms against the rebels. as many as 20 wounded by rub­other demands were met. Etcheun commands the 4th Air ber bullets or injured by tear The uprising was the worst Transport Infantry Brigade. gas. threat to President Raul Alfon­The Interior Ministry issued 
Rebel commander Col. sin since his civilian govern­a statement saying the govern-Mohamed Ali Seineldin met ment replaced a disgraced mil­with army chief Lt. Gen. Jose itary dictatorship in 1983. See REVOLT, page 7 

ND allocates $17 million for improved computer system 

By MAURA KRAUSE O'Shaughnessy computer lab contributing money or grants,'' 
Staff Reporter and the addition of the Macin­he said. Children play on a Soviet tank in a Baku street in Azerbaijan, U.S.S.R. tosh lab in LaFortune, are a A new, mini-supercomputer Authorities have deployed troops and tanks and imposed a strict curfew Notre Dame will again be on result of the upgrading, said will be installed sometime this to curb ethnic violence between Azerbaijanis and neighboring Armenians the cutting edge of computer Spicer. year to replace the aged IBM in the southern Soviet republics in the last two weeks. technology within the next four Over the next few years, the mainframe computer in the 
years, said Donald Spicer, as­University will install systems Math and Computer Building, sistant provost Jor University with "many, many compo­Spicer said. "The mini­computing. nents ranging from public supercomputer will be used by 
Soviets may use force 

The University recently all­clusters directed towards stu­faculty, grad students and ocated $17 million for vast im­dent use to a mini­undergraduates to run scien­
provements in the computer supercomputer," Spicer said. tific and research programs," 
to quell recent unrest , 

system, Spicer said. The $17 he said. million will be drawn from tui­Computer labs for student The mini-supercomputer is Associated Press don by the British Broadcast­tion increases over the next use will contain "Mac and DOS in a "whole new class of com­
ing Corp. four years, beginning with an as well as higher end com­puters which executes pro­
MOSCOW-The military com­"I request leaders of the estimated nine percent in­puters for scientific work sta­grams much faster than ordi­mander of Baku warned Sun­meetings and demonstrations crease next year, he added. tions. Work stations on faculty nary computers," he said. day that force may be used to on Lenin Square and other Improvements in the com­desks will also be implemented The "mini-supercOmputer contain unrest in the Azer­people to abide by Soviet laws puter system around campus, within the next few years with 
See IMPROVE, page 7

baijani capital, where aut­unconditionally," he said. including the renovation of the a number of faculty-members horities have banned protests "Force will be used in case of and meetings in efforts to im­any failure to abide by regula­
Former President Perez has big lead in 
pose order. tions established by law." In another development, a The military law imposed on 
early returns from Venezuelan election

newspaper said guards armed Baku late last week prohibits with submachine guns were meetings and protests, but they Associated Press 54 percent to 32 percent, based weeks before the election by be­protecting Armenian and Azer­have continued in the Azer­on polls of voters. tween 10 and 20 points, al­baijani refugees as they baijani capital. Tyagunov's CARACAS, Venezuela The projections were based though his campaign picked up streamed across the border statement appeared to be a Former President Carlos on an estimated voter turnout steam as the election drew dividing the two republics. toughening of authorities' Andres Perez was leading his of 7.8 million, which would in­near. 
Official news reports have efforts to impose order. major opponent by a substan­dicate 15 percent abstention There are 23 other presiden­placed the total number of An Armenian activist in tial margin and appeared to be among the more than 9.1 mil­tial candidates on the ballot,refugees from both sides at Yerevan, Rafael Popoyan, said heading to victory in Sunday's lion people registered to vote. but none was given a chance to about 150,000, and said they are officials in the Armenian capi­national election, according to There was no margin of error beat either of the two big par­living in tents at summer tal had permitted activists to exit polls. given. ties. resorts, vacant apartments hold a meeting Sunday in Ech­A Perez win would give his Perez had been expected to 
Venezuelans also were 

and with relatives and friends. miadzin, 19 miles west of the his center-left Democratic Ac­win handily in polls taken voting for a new National 
The refugee problem is Armenian capital. tion party two consecutive vic­several weeks before the elec­Congress. Up for grabs are 182 "standing like a black cloud Popoyan said activists tories during the nation's worst tion. seats in the Chamber of over everybody's head," said negotiated with military aut­economic crisis in decades. "This electoral response puts Deputies and 44 in the Senate. Col Gen. Tyagunov said in a horities for two days to receive us in a secure position to carry Perez, who nationalized broadcast on Baku radio. "Now permission for the meeting. He The Venevision and Radio forward our program of gov­foreign oil holdings in is not the time for staging any said the strict controls imposed Caracas television networks ernment/' said Perez's cam­Venezuela in his 1974-79 meetings." under military rule prevented projected Perez, 66, would beat paign manager David Morales presidency, voted shortly after 
The officer's first name was Arm~nians from getting infor­his principal opponent Bello shortly after polls closed. polls opened. He has promised nat given in the broadcast, mation about their relatives Eduardo Fernandez of the So-. Fernandez,· 48, trailed Perez which was monitored in Lon-still in Azerbaijan. cial Christian Party by at least in opinion polls taken several See ELECTION, page 7 

The Observer Monday, December 5, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 



Engineers should take an ethics course 

IN BRIEF 
A moose convention could be held in Anchorage this holiday season, only the conventioneers aren't the type who wear red fezzes and nametags. Alaska's largest city is brimming with moose--the animal type--this fall. One count estimated there are 900 of them, or 100 more than the total that feasted on urban shrubbery two years ago. "We got a pot full o' moose around here," said Mike McDonald, state game biologist. The problem could get worse in the next two months, when moose from the Chugach foothills make their move into the city to escape the snow build-up at higher elevations, McDonald said. Earlier this week, police said they watched a big bull moose stroll across a parking lot and begin to step gingerly over a new Pontiac. The moose dropped a hind foot and dented the hood.-AssoCiated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Off-Campus students can pick up phone books in the student government offices. -The Observer 
Monday Night Football will be shown tonight at 9 
p.m. The Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) invites students from the Chicago and Los Angeles areas to tonight's game between the Bears and the Rams. Refresh­ments will be provided. -The Observer 
Women's Care Centei'/Pregnancy Help Center 
is holding a training session for voluntary counselors during the weekend of Jan 27-29, at Knights of Columbus building on campus. Volunteers will ve trained to do preg­nancy testing, crisis counseling, and community referrals. Course credit available. Call for information &registration 234-0363 -The Observer 
Financial Aid Forms are being distributed this week to all students who applied for financial aid this year. The FAFs will be mailed to off-campus and on-campus stu­dents. If you want aid for the 198Ml0 academic year, the FAF must be completed between Jan 1 and Feb 28. Extra F AFs are available in the Financial Aid Office. Take your FAF home for the holidays. -The Observer 
Poetry reading featuring Sonia Gernes, author of Women At Forty, will be held in the library lounge today at 7 p.m. The event is sponsored by GSU Women's Resource Committee. -The Observer 
A campus-wide Penance Service will be sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry at 10 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Father William Dohar will preside; music will be provided by the Notre Dame Folk Choir. Opportu­nity for individual confession will follow the service. -The Observer 
Auditions for Concert Band today, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Also, Varsity Band for participation at bas­ketball games starts second semester. Anyone interested should stop in the Band Office. -The Observer 
VIdeotaped Mock Interviews will be offered to juniors, seniors, and graduate students through the Career and Placement services office Jan. 23 to 27. This is an ideal way to enhance your job interviewing skills with an employer representative. Appointments fill quickly, so sign up now at the Career and Placement office or by calling 239-5200. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Deaign Editor ............ Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Layout .... ... Annette Rowland Dnign A..iatant ...................... Ann Buff Accent De1igllef'... .. . Robert Sedlack TJipeaetteTI ....................... Jim Mercurio Typiats.. ..... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Diana Bradley ........................................... Andy Schlidt ............................................. Will Zamer New• EdiloT ................... Matt Gallagher ND Day Editon .............. Diana Bradley CopJI Editon.. .... .... .. . . .. .. .. . Regis, Mark, ....................................Jennifer Richards ..................................Sara&: The Grinch SMC Day EditoT ........ Liz Lobb SpoTtl CopJI Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Slotman ......................... Matt Gallagher Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Mike Truppa 
n. Qlleener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duri111 eum and vacation periods. n.Olleener is published by the students of the Univenil} of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas· cd f« S40 per year (S2S per semester) by wrililll Tile Olleener, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
n. a..n• is a member of n. A.lodalecl Preu. All reproduction riahts are racrved. 

On the first week of Christmas my professors 
gave to me: A major structures project, an 
eight-page ethics paper, a structures lab report, 
a propulsion homework program, an econ 
simulation, one lab exam, and assorted 
homework assignments. I would have done all 
this before Thanksgiving but I had four exams, 
a design project, and three labs that week. Not ·to mention four interviews. 
Yes, I know most of you have had hell weeks 
that were three times as bad and besides, you 
were breaking up with your significant other 
the same day. But most would agree that en­
gineers have one of the heavier workloads at 
the University. 
One of my professors spoke to our class last 
week on cheating in the classroom. I won't go 
into details, but he indicated he saw that it was 
a problem. 
Yes, cheating is a problem in the College of 
Engineering. Homework assignments are 
copied routinely. I have seen engineering stu­
dents rooting through trash cans for computer 
programs to copy verbatim. Most of the time 
cheaters don't have to go to that trouble, 
though; students will give them the programs 
anyway. Many of our exams are open book in 
engineering, but the ones that are closed often 
aren't. Ever figure out how many key equations 
you can jam into an programmable HP with 
2K memory? 
As a matter of fact, I'm surprised that more 
people aren't caught. All the professors I've 
had have clearly established honor policies. But 
it's not easy to figure out who's copying what 
when you're looking at differential equations. 
Why do people cheat here? Mostly the 
workload --many engineers couldn't get done 
everything that's assigned given the time con­
straints of college life. Engineers aren't cut­
throat because there's a definite feeling of "us 
against them". We're all in the same boat. 
Hopefully the Honor Code will solve the prob­
lem. But the same camaraderie that causes the 
cheating in the first place will probably under­
mine the Honor Code as well. The "playground 
ethic" is too strong. Even as I write this column, 
I don't see myself turning in offenders. I know 
intellectually this is wrong, but my conditioning , 
is too strong. . 
A few engineering students have beat the tat­
tletale convention and said something to other 
students or professors. Whether something was 
done or not, I don't know. But the cheaters are 
still there. 
The problem is, when you copy something 
that someone else thought_ about, you don't 
Mark Mclaughlin 
News Editor 

learn it. That's a problem when you're design­
ing bridges or airplane control circuits. 

Preprofessional students are required as part of their major to take an ethics course. Program of Liberal Studies students are as well. No engineering department, to the best of my knowledge, requires any such course. I took an engineering one-credit elective on the subject (which has already been graded, so don't ac­cuse me of brownnosing) which was attended by eight students out of a class of hundreds. 
In engineering, cheating will eventually come back to haunt you. Several American defense contractors are finding that out right now. But more important, cheating in engineering will eventually kill someone. The makers of the Pinto, the original cargo doors of the DC-10, and the A7D aircraft brake have all found that out. 
But until Notre Dame wakes up and requires engineers to at least take a look at the implica­tions of unethical behavior in engineering, we probably will still band together against pro­fessors for our mutual survival. And some of us will be going too far and copying for indi­vidual survival, Honor Code or no. So profes· sors, please, keep an eye on us. I'm not sure we're up to the task ourselves. 

~----------------------------------. 
LAST YEAII7,514 HIGH KHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRIIIKING AID DRIVING. 
IfH ~53 ~fEfE~o 53 fE \#fErMI53 &I S)fM][ 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR: LeMans Lobby Mon-Fri 9-5. Area residents and student groups wi 11 
be se11ing handmade items as well as T-shirts, candy, and glassware at reasonable prices. ALL SMC/ND STUDENTS AND F ACUL TV ARE 
WELCOME. Come do your Christmas shoppingUI 
NEWS 


------I61A1 THURS g & 11: 1 5 
COSPONSORED BY AUGUST A HALL 
Cit AD 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
r,J .l. .l.. ..1....1 
SAIBT MARY"S COI.LEG£ 


• ' '0 • I 0 0 0 0 • ! I I I I I 0 I 0 I I I I 0 I I I I 
Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer page 3 

Peres: return of hijackers helps relations with Moscow 

Associated Press 
JERUSALEM--Foreign Min­ister Shimon Peres said Sun­day that the Soviet Union's en­thusiastic response to Israel's help in the return of four hijackers has given "new sig­nificance" to relations with Moscow. 
Peres also noted in a radio interview that Israel agreed to the speedy return of the hijack­ers to the Soviet Union Satur­day after receiving written as­surances they wouldn't face the death penalty. 
"The Soviets promised us in writing that these people wouldn't be executed and so there was no point in delaying 



FIESTA BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
4 98 
Includes roundtrip air, 
S hotel, rental cor and more. See details in large ad elsewhere in this issue. Gamelicketnotinclt'ded. 
Premier PasSports 
The Official Travel Agency of the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers 
1-800-777-3643 

INCLUDES: 
or complicating the process," he said on Army radio. 
The return of the hijackers ended a drama that began Thursday, when four armed Soviets seized a busload of school-children in southern Russia, then traded them for a plane out of the country and a $3.3 million ransom. The hijackers surrendered shortly after arriving in Israel Friday evening. 
Peres cited the reaction of Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, who personally thanked the chief of an Israeli consular delegation in Moscow, Aryeh Levine, for Israel's help in the affair. 
Shevardnadze was the high­est ranking Soviet official to meet Levine since the Israeli delegates arrived in Moscow in July. 
Shevardnadze was quoted by Foreign Ministry spokesman Alon Liel as expressing to Levine "the thanks and deep appreciation of the Soviet gov­ernment and Soviet people re­garding the noble way the gov­ernment of Israel has dealt 
with this barbaric act.'' 
Peres said Shevardnadze's , gesture was "almost without precedent in our relations with 
the Soviet Union in recent 
~~~~~U~c~~~!~~y~:et~~i!v~~~ 
of the " 
"The representations in Is­rael and Moscow now have a new significance," Peres said. He referred to the Israeli delegation in Moscow and a So­viet consular delegation that has been in Tel Aviv .since July 1987. 
Levine said on the radio that in his meeting with Shevardnadze, he told the So­viet leader "we would be very happy to have more or less nor­mal relations. Normal is a very acceptable term in the Soviet Union and I took advantage of this opportunity to use it." 
The Soviet · Union broke diplomatic ties with Israel during the 1967 Middle East War, but has gradually warmed relations over the last two years, with the exchange of consular delegations and a liberalization of Jewish emigra­tion permits. 

Israeli newspapers also echoed Peres' hopes that the weekend hijacking drama, which involved unusual diplomatic exchanges between the Israeli and Soviet govern­ments, would improve ties with AP Photo 
Moscow·  .  An Israeli woman plays a game of beach paddleball with a member of  
The  daily  Haar~tz  r~n  a the hijacked Soviet plane crew on a Tel Aviv beach last weekend. The  
~~ont-page  analy~IS  titled: eight-member Soviet crew landed Friday night and were hosted by the  

. The Plane Fell Like a Bless-Israel Air Force after the hijacking. 
mg From Heaven." An analy-. 
~:a~~i!~~:dai~~~~=~tsh~~=:~ 'Shuttle Atlantis to return to 
Points at a Low Price." 

Earth Tuesday at earliest 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston -­

The military mission of space shuttle Atlantis continued un­der a shroud of official silence Sunday, although there were · indications the orbiter would not return to Earth before 
Tuesday. 
Atlantis is under the com­
mand of the Air Force, which 
has said it would give 24-hour 
notice of landing but otherwise 
maintain silence unless there 
is an emergency. 
No word was heard from 
either NASA or the Air Force 
on Sunday, the shuttle's third 
day in flight, indicating the ear­
liest day the orbiter would land 
at Edwards Air Force Base in 
California would be Tuesday. 
At a Sunday briefing at Ed­
wards for NASA and Air Force 

TRANSPORTATION, HOTEL 

DEC. 8TH, FROM 4 TO 7 PM. IN 
ACCOMODATION~, LIFT TICKETS 
THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE-2nd 
FOR TWO DAYS AND TWO NIGHTS 
FLOOR LAFORTUNE. A DEPOSIT OF 
OF SKIING, THREE MEALS, AND A 
$60 IS REQUIRED (THE BALANCE 
SUPER BOWL GET-TOGETHER! 
TO BE PAID AFTER BREAK). 
PLEASE SIGN UP IN GROUPS OF 
4, 6, OR 8. 

SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP 
WHERE: SCHUSS MOUNTAIN 
WHEN  JANUARY 27-29  
COST  $160  
SIGN-UPS:  
WEDS. DEC., 7TH AND THURS.,  

workers taking part in a sim­ulated landing, a list of activi­ties indicilted Atlantis would return to Earth four to seven days after Friday morning's blastoff from Cape Canaveral, Fla. That also would suggest a landing no earlier than Tues­day. 
The Air Force gave no infor­mation on whether the five­man military crew accom­plished its main goal: deployment of a powerful radar satellite designed to gat­her very sharp images of East Bloc military facilities in all weather. 
The spy satellite would help 'American intelligence monitor Soviet compliance with arms treaties. Eventually1 it also could serve as the "radar eye" for the new stealth bomber, al­lowing the jet's crew to pick out targets without turning on their own radar and revealing their position. 
Sources said before the flight 
that the astronauts planned to 
deploy the $500 million satel­

lite, reportedly codenamed 
Lacrosse, on Saturday. 
The astronauts also were to 

conduct reconnaissance ex­
I)eriments, sources said. It was 
believed they would test a spe­
cial hand-held optical device 
that resembles binoculars. 
The experiments were to be 

coordinated with undisclosed 
ground exercises that could in­
clude troop maneuvers, naval 
movements or missile 
launches. 
Atlantis is the second shuttle 

to fly since the Challenger ex­
plosion Jan. 28, 1986, the 27th 
shuttle mission overall and the 
third dedicated to the military. 
Atlantis' crew members are 

Navy Cmdr. Robert Gibson, 
the commander; Air Force Lt. 
Col. Guy Gardner, the pilot; 
Col. Richard Mullane and Lt. 
Col. Jerry Ross of the Air 
Force, and Navy Cmdr. 
William Shepherd. 

'~~--------------~~------------------~------------.....----­
0

0 o I 0 I 0 I I 1 I 1 o o I o < 0 I I 0 0 I I I 0 0' '
P-------..~--~----------~--~r 
page 4 The Observer Monday, December 5, 1988 

AP Photo
Political protesters 
A group of about 50 Chinese activists sit outside China's official Xinhua News Agency in Hong Kong to protest an election proposal in China's post-1997 constitution for Hong Kong. Under the proposal, the city's chief executive would not be directly elected until the year 2012. 
ND student assulted near St. Joseph's lake Friday 
Observer Staff Report 
versity Health Services, ex-
A Notre Dame student was amined. and released. 
assaulted on the path around In other Security matters, a 
St. Joseph's Lake last Friday group of seven Notre Dame stu­
night, said Phillip Johnson, as-dents were apprehended near 
sistant director of Security. the basement of Farley Hall 
The student was near the after allegedly being spotted in 
power plant at 11:30 p.m. when the steam tunnels connecting to 
he heard someone call out to the hall. 
him, said Johnson. "As he "We received a call from a 
turned to find the caller, the security monitor in the wo­
student was struck by a tree men's residence hall," said 
branch and knocked uncon-Johnson. Mter apprehending 
scious," Johnson added. the suspects, "we explained to 
The student was found them that that area was not 
shortly after the incident by an-open to the public and pre­
other student, and both sented certain dangers." 


Soviets will allow multi-candidate elections for legislature next year 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW-An unlimited number of candidates for a new national legislature will be al­lowed to campaign in the offi­cial media at state expense early next year, according to an election law published Sun­day. 
Publication of the law pushed through the Supreme Soviet parliament Thursday by Pres­ident Mikhail Gorbachev gave voters their first look at final details of the system under which they will select 2,250 members of a new Congress of People's Deputies on March 26. 
The Soviet Union last year began experimenting with al­lowing more than one can­didate in some elections, breaking a tradition of single candidates approved by aut­horities for their political reliability. 
" Any number of candidates for deputy can be registered," the new law says. 
"Candidates for people's deputy of the U.S.S.R. from the 

time oftheir registration by the Supreme Soviet on Nov. 29, said
1Mtcrqsott® Word tor lBM systems. I 

I ~.~!.!~:?2~~L~~.~~~~· 
ing program at avery special price.  IE  
The academic edition of Word is the same fully functional document process­ 
=  ing software that you see on the shelf with a suggested retail price of $450. Word  
§  has advanced features that speed you through big jobs, shortcut repetitive ones,  _  
= and organize your documents when you're done. For example, use the function  5  
E keys to bypass menus and speedkeys to perform wmplex formatting in seconds.=Use style sheets and style-by-example for the ultimate in formatting flexibility.  
Contact your Authorized Microsoft Education Dealer  E  
listed below, show your academic identification, and get  E  

election commission have an equal right to speak at pre­election and other meetings, sessions and gatherings, in the press and on television and radio," it says. 
The law also says that candi­dates "do not incur expenses connected with preparation and carrying out of elections." Candidates may have a staff of up to 10 people, should be paid their normal salary while they 
are campaigning and are al­lowed free public transporta­tion in their district, except by taxi. 
While the new law seems to 
assure more candidates, it 
remains an open question whe­
ther there would be much of a 
difference in their views. 
The Communist Party still is enshrined in the Soviet Consti­tution as the guiding force of Soviet society, and the law spe­cifically prohibits candidates from advocating any action that is against the constitution or laws of the Soviet Union. 
Gorbachev, speaking to the "a possibility of a real choice 
is ... being provided." 
"Maximum use should be made of existing possiblities to give every voter knowledge of the candidates. Try as they will, they can't make sure that everybody will come to the meet-the-candidates rallies," Gorbachev said. 
"So a big role is to be played here by radio, television and the press. And indeed can there be anything more revealing than public debates in which the candidates parry ques­tions, put forth their views and, if you like, show their worth?" he said. 
The law does not put a limit on campaign expenditures, but says a central election commis­sion will be in charge of dis­tributing campaign money for local disbursement. 
SPRING BREAK ~ 89 
Reservations Available Now 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX l•om$149* Sheraton/Hol•day Inn/Gulf V•ew 
STEAMBOAT, CQ  hom $93*  
Shadow Run/Overlook  
DAYTONA BEACH, FL  from $118*  
Texan Motel  
MusTANG IsLAND, TX  ••om $136*  
Port Royal Condos  

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC lmm $1 07* H1lton Head Beach Condos 

started using Microsoft Word today! = 
: $l2Q.OO i 
• R&D COMPUTERS· Mictosott" ~ 

'Oepend1ng on Break dates & length of stay 

(616) 471-1605 ....________.... 


Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer pageS 
.. ··~. AP Photo
And baby makes three 
South African detainee Zwelakhe Sisulu, a journalist who was imprisoned for two years without charge and released last week, cuddles his mother Albertina, co-president of the United Democratic Front, and an identified young relative. 
We've reformed the


correction srstem. 
Prisoners of old-fashioned correction systems, freedom is here. 
Smith Corona's Correcting Cassette means an end to twists, tangles and fumbles. 
It's an easy-to-load, drop-in correction tape you can insert in mere seconds. 
There are no spools to unwind. No complicated thread­ing. No more muttering under your breath. It's that simple. 
What's just as simple is our Right Ribbon System'.M It simply prevents you from using the wrong combination of ribbon and correcting cassette. 
You'll find our Correcting Cassette and Right Ribbon System on the Smith Corona SL 600 typewriter. 
You'll also find lots of other 
For more information on this product, write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 or Smith Corona (Canada Ltd.), 440 Thpscott Road, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada MlB 1Y4. 
great features on the SL 600­like the Spell-Right™ 50,000 word electronic dictionary, full line correction, WordEraser® and more. 
You might expect a type­writer this sophisticated to cost a bundle, but the SL 600 is 
Iran-Contra go-between dies in Mexican plane crash 
Associated Press 
URUAPAN, Mexico Amiram Nir, the Israeli go­between in secret U.S. arms deals with Iran who died in a light plane crash last week, told people he was in Mexico to buy avocados, police said. 
Federal authorities contin­ued Sunday to investigate both the plane crash and Nir's visit to Uruapan, an out-of-the-way city in the western mountains of Michoacan state famed for its avocados and notorious for drug trafficking. 

New revelations about Nir's role in the Iran-Contra affair, meanwhile, emerged Sunday in a Washington Post report quoting him as saying in June that a secret U .S.-Israeli agree­ment authorized counterter­rorist operations he supervised with former White House aide Oliver North in 1985-86. 
Nir, 37, was a counterter­rorism adviser to Prime Mini­ster Shimon Peres and his suc­cessor, Yitzhak Shamir. 
In Jerusalem, the office of Peres, now foreign minister, denied the Washington Post report Sunday. 
"There is no such agree­ment," Foreign Ministry spokesman Alon Liel said in a statement. He declined to elab­orate. 
U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz, appearing on ABC-TV's "This Week with David Brinkley," was asked if such an agreement ever ex­isted. 
"Not that I know of," he said. 
Police here said they have no evidence that Nir's visit in­volved anything but avocados. But they could not explain why he apparently decided to travel under an assumed name. 
Jose Luis Arriaga, a Federal Judicial Police commander in Uruapan, said Nir spent three days at the best hotel in town and discussed avocado prices with a French-owned exporter. Nir was traveling on a visa issued Nov. 25 in London. 
"He came to solicit prices for avocados," Arriaga said. 
He said Nir had planned to return to Uruapan in a week, possibly to close a deal with the exporter Eupasa, a local sub­sidiary of Lucal France, a fruit and vegetable importer based in France. 
When Nir left Uruapan on a charter flight he registered un­der an assumed name, Pat Weber. However, Arriaga said, Nir used his own name at the hotel in Uruapan. 
Arriaga said police obtained information about Nir's visit from Pedro Curchet, the local agent for Eupasa, which he said employs about 50 people in an avocado-packing opera­tion in Uruapan. 
Curchet identified Nir's body in the wreckage of the Aerotaxis of Uruapan Cessna T-210 that went down Wednes­day in the mountains outside Ciudad Hidalgo, about 110 miles west of Mexico City. 
The pilot also died and three other people were seriously in­jured. One was a Canadian wo­man, Adriana Stanton, 25, who 
said she knew Nir only slightly and the others apparently were only sharing the chartered flight. 
Stanton told The Associated 
Thursday that she did not 
know what Nir was doing in 
Mexico. 
The Mexico City daily La Jor­nada said Saturday that Stan­ton was also traveling under an assumed name, Esther Ar­riaga. The newspaper did not quote a source for the informa­tion. 
Curchet was one of a party 
of about eight people from Ar­
gentina who had been staying 
at the hillside hotel since Sep­
tember. 
Hotel personnel and police 
who interviewed Curchet said 
the visit was Nir's first. Cur­
chet could not be located for 


EDUCATION FOR THE 

REALWORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicy emphasis. 
Special fields: International relations, Interamerican rela­tions, international business, comparative development,economics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and the Mid­dle East. 
Fellowships and other finan­
cial aid available. Apply by January 15. 
GRADOO'E SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES UNNERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4173 




page6 
Bhutto names new 
Pakistani 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -­Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto installed her Cabinet on Sun­day, holding the defense and finance portfolios for herself and naming a foreign minister who served under the late Pres­ident Mohammed Zia ul-Haq. 
The moves followed her or­ders Saturday to free political prisoners convicted under martial law and commute all death sentences. Those orders are expected to be acted on by President Ghulam lshaq Khan. 
In a news conference, Bhutto said the appointment of Sahab­zada Yaqub Khan to head the Foreign Ministry is a signal of continuity in Pakistan's stand on the war in neighboring Af­ghanistan. 
Pakistan with bel from the 
McBrien: Vatican won't go after Hunthausen 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE-The Vatican is not likely to take further ac­tion against Seattle Arch­bishop Raymond Hun­thausen, Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the theology department at Notre Dame, has predicted. 
McBrien, a leading liberal theologian, said Saturday he believes the Vatican has had enough of the controversy over Hunthausen's adminis­tration, even though conser­vative Catholics here will continue to complain about what they consider are abuses in the archdiocese. 
"It will do them no good," McBrien said. "The Vatican does not want to go through this a second time." 
McBrien made the com­ments after speaking at a symposium at Seattle Uni­versity on authority in the Catholic Church. 
In 1986, the Vatican stripped Hunthausen of some of his powers because it believed he had been lax in some church matters, in-
eluding ministry to their liking," McBrien said.
,,--------------....,
I .-. I 
I I I I 
I MEATBALL MONDAYI 
Eastern Style Subs I 50 cents off I 14 or 18 inch meatball sub
I 
The Beast from the East 
1 -DON'T FORGET I OTH INNING SPECIAL 1 
EVERYDAY AFTER IOPM 7 INCH SUB, I CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25 
I 271-0SUBI -1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE 
\ I 





~---------------' 
Cabinet 
United States, supports Mos­lem anti-communist guerrillas fighting the Soviet-backed Kabul government and shel­ters more than 3million Afghan war refugees. 
Despite her bitter opposition to Zia, Bhutto said during her election campaign that she would maintain his Afghan policy until the fighting stops and the refugees feel safe to go home. 
Zia died in an Aug. 17 plane crash, weeks after approving elections for Pakistan. Aut­horities suspect sabotage in the crash, which also killed U.S. ambassador Arnold Raphel and 28 others. A probe is con­tinuing. 
Bhutto, who took the oath of office Friday, stocked her gov­ernment with stalwarts of her Pakistan Peo le's Party. 
homosexuals, the marriage court and the role of laity and former priests in the Church. The Vatican or­dered Hunthausen to dele­gate authority to Auxiliary Bishop Donald Wuerl in those and other areas. 
The discipline was un­precedented in the U.S. Church and upset many Cat­holics. 
In 1987, Hunthausen's au­thority was restored and Wuerl was reassigned. Thomas J. Murphy was ap­pointed as a coadjutor arch­bishop. 
Under that arrangement, Murphy assists Hunthausen, but Hunthausen has ul­timate responsibility for the archdiocese. Murphy is to succeed Hunthausen when Hunthausen retires. 
"The right wing in Seattle is in a terrible position right now because they already know the next bishop of Seattle after Hunthausen is not going to be someone to 
I I I I 
I
I 
I 
II 
1 1
I I 
I
I 
The Observer Monday, December 5, 1988 
Populist leader Benazir Bhutto, left, was the first to sign national parliamentary rolls during the swearing-
Gorbachev expected to try to persuade Castro to join Soviet reform movement 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW --When President Mikhail Gorbachev meets Cuban leader Fidel Castro later this week, Soviet experts expect him to try to persuade the veteran revolutionary that it's past time for Castro to draw in his horns. 
"We are not going to worsen our relations with Cuba," said one Latin American specialist. "But Gorbachev is a very per­suasive man, and he will try to 
explain his intentions." 
The trip to Cuba to mark the 30th anniversary of the revolu­tion that brought Castro to power has been in the planning stages at least since last June. 
But it assumed a flavor more palatable to Washington two weeks ago, when Gorbachev disclosed the visit would be sandwiched between a trip to New York to address the United Nations and meet with President Reagan and President-elect George Bush and a stop in Britain for talks with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and a meeting with Queen Elizabeth II. 

The Soviet expert, who agreed to discuss Soviet-Cuban . 
relations on condition he not be identified, said Castro's regime has become not only a financial burden at a time when the Kremlin is trying to divert resources to its domestic needs but a foreign policy liability as well. 
The source predicted Gor­bachev would use his trip to Havana to offer encourage­ment to the Contadora nations trying to hammer out a regional peace settlement in Central America. And he is ex-


THE HISPANIC AMERICAN ORGANIZATION PRESENTS 

AMexican Posada 
Tuesday, Dec. 6, 1988 Candlelight procession begins at 
7:00 in front of LaFortune. 
reception afterwards in Sorin 
co-sponsored by Notre Dame Student Government 
pected to seek support from Castro, who has been openly hostile to the Soviet leader's ef­forts to encourage individual initiative by enabling enterprises to make profits and start private cooperatives. 
Nor has Castro been sympa­thetic to the Soviet president's policies encouraging greater openness of expression and a more competitive system of electing party and government officials. 

ONE DOLLAR OFF any CD, tape, or LP at 
finals are almost here! forget the stacks at the library, check out ours! 

good only at time of purchase between 12/5 and 12/9 we will be closed during finals. happy holidays! 
Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer page 7 
START treaty not likely to result from 

upcoming summit 
AssoCiated Press 
WASHINGTON --Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbac­hev, who have made arms con­trol history together, are bound to revisit their idea of a dra­matic reduction in strategic 
. weapons when they meet over lunch this week, but a nudge forward rather than a breakthrough, will be the most likely to result. 
The strategic arms reduction treaty that they have been talking about --the hoped-for centerpiece in Reagan's arms control program --has too many holes in it for Gorbachev and Reagan to reach command decisions during their three­hour luncheon Wednesday on Governors Island in New York Harbor. 
Moreover, Gorbachev is well aware that he is dealing with a lame duck president who will have six weeks left in office and 

Improve 
continued from page 1 

has somewhat lesser capabili­ties than larger supercom­puters-,'' said Spicer, but added "with less capabilities comes less cost." 
"Those students using the hiSher end software will be on 
no way

r-----------------------..negotiate the positions invoked 
Resume  • Fine Stationery • Matching Envelopes  by the fractious groups." Authorities used tear gas to repeatedly disperse protesters who threw rocks and bottles at  
Service  kinko•s® the copy center  the arsenal in Villa Martelli, a working-class neighborhood nine miles from downtown Buenos Aires. Tens of thousands of people  
..  for a resume that can do the job, depend on Kinko's. _______________________  18187 State Road 23 271-0398  gathered in plazas across the South American nation to sup­port a democracy that has suf­..fered six military coups &,ince  

will be in no position to commit his successor, George Bush, to any course of action. 
For all that, Max Kampel­man, the chief U.S. arms con­trol negotiator, finds it difficult to believe arms will not be dis­cussed during lunch. 
"I believe it will come up," Kampelman said in an inter­view last week. "But I don't believe it will come up in a negotiating context. My own judgment is it will come up as a discussion and maybe a quick review of where things stand now." 
In a report to Congress on Friday, Reagan accused the Soviet Union of violating exist­ing arms control agreements with the United States. "We cannot conclude new strategic arms control agreements while this violation remains uncor­rected," the report said. 

Election 
continued from page 1 
a state-directed economy. 
His party is the same as that of President Jaime Lusinchi, whose five-year term was one of economic decline in a. country battered by the drop in oil prices. Oil makes up 90 per­cent of the country's exports. . The new president, to be in­augurated in February, will face growing poverty in what has been Latin America's ric­hest nation. The standard of living is still one of the highest in the region but it has been reduced by inflation and 

Revolt 
continued from page 1 
ment would "in 
devaluations since 1982. 
Since 1984, the nation's in­
come from oil was halved to an 
expected $7.1 billion this year, 
while foreign debt payments 
have continued at a rate of 
about $5 billion a year during 
Lusinchi's term. The debt 
stands at $33 billion. 
The depressed economic 

climate helped lead to one of the most unenthusiastic cam­. paigns in Venezuela's 30 years of democracy. Public rallies drew mainly the party faithful . and few curiosity seekers, while many citizens did not 
want to be bothered. 
"Whoever wins, there's no 
solution to the situation " said 
the 1930s. 
The insurrection began Thursday when 53 members of an elite coast guard unit robbed an arsenal and deserted their base. Also, officers tried to in­cite troops at two other army bases in suburban Buenos Aires. 
On Friday, troops at an in­fantry school rebelled. On Sat­urday, most of the rebels moved to an army arsenal in the Villa Martelli neighborhood 15 kilometers from downtown Buenos Aires. 
On Sunday, troops in the 6th Infantry regiment at Mer­cedes, 60 miles west of the cap­ital, joined the rebellion. 
the Math-Computing Center was introduced in the late 1970's but was acquired by the University around 1984. "This mainframe was far from state­of-the-art when we acquired it and cannot run today's most up to date programs," Spicer said. The mainframe, which is no longer for sale, has little to no book value, he said. 
that machine early on, freeing the new mainframe for general public use," he said. 
Spicer sa1d he plans to "move quickly on replacing the cur­rent mainframe computer, hopefully having the new (mini-supercomputer) installed before the end of the current academic year.'' The IBM mainframe computer in a middle-aged housewife in a working-class section of Caracas. Her biggest concerns were the high cost of living and personal security. 
In addition to their financial woes, voters have also been dis­enchanted with widespread corruption in government and the perception that neither Perez nor Fernandez will do anything about it. 
Official abstention in the 1983 election was 15 percent, accor­ding to the Supreme Electoral Council, the elections oversee­ing body. Political analysts say it was likely to be higher this time. 
In Buenos Aires, a city of 10 million, its five television !!ta­tions continued broadcasting news, with public messages playing across the bottom of the screen urging people to defend den1ocracy. 
Tanks and men armed with automatic weapons dressed in combat fatigues were feat\ll"ed on front pages of all the Sunday newspapers. TV showed rebels checking land mines, digging trenches, positioning tanks. 
At the heavily-fortified Gov­ernment House, Alfonsin met continually with Cabinet min­isters anq military advisers. At midday, he attended mass in a chapel within the building. 

Helps studentsrelievestress. 
The stress ofsolving equations that run a 68881 math co-processor. Its memory from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­the elusive quark. And of analyzing the city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open­
· strains placed on your average suspension with six NuBusN slots for communications, bridge on a windy day _ video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
To all of you who must move moun-All of which is good reason to do one tains ofdata we offer the Macintosh' II com-simple thing the next time an assignment puter. Owning one is comparable to having has you stressed out: Plug one in. a personal workstation or powerful main-.,_ frame sitting on your desk. . 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And The power to be your besC 
© 1')88.·VJf1k (,fmtfl/l/c?: 1111: :VJfJie. tl~t• :VJfJ/e logr1 and ,1/ttdnlrA,z, tm' n~~'tem/ trademar~· '!land '71.JI! fKJtiY't"lo I~·.J'fJUr ht>sl. is q lmtlemtir~· r{·V!fJ/e Computrr.fm·. . \itl/u1·t;,· t1 lntd!?llm~· r!f'7i:wL,·ff1sii'W111'111.1'. In!'. .ll\' f)(A\' is a ny,zslmYIIrmll'mark r!f.llimm!fl r:mrxJrtt/inn 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 

...  a  e  ..  w­ . '  
'  I  I  '  I  I  I  1  I  I  I  I  o  •  I  o  I  I  \  • 0  •  •  •  •  •  
page 8  The Observer  Monday, December 5, 1988  






Word ProcessinglOl. 
, 
, 
r 
, r .. 
r 
• 
There is agrim reality of college life that you may just one example of how Macintosh helps students work or may not be acquainted with.1)rping. smarter, quicker and more creatively. No, make that hours of typing. Precisely why you The good news is, with Macintosh you don't have should consider aMacintosh'" computer. to know anything about computers to use one. With programs like WriteNow and Microsoft Word, The better news is, you don't have to kno\v any you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and change type thing about white out, either. 
sizes and styles with one finger. Which can come in very handy. (Especially if that's the way you type.) And that's tl~The power to be your besC 
Con1puter Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM· 
• 
' \ 


-.."!"',""!".""!'.-:.~.~---..,-,......,--:-;--,--------,-----·-------~----------~­

Accent
Monday, December 5, 1988 page 9 
Cookies to eat and cookies to keep 
-----------------------------------., flour in by hand. Do not chill cutters. Cut hanging hole with 

Visiting studies travels 
Associated Press 
Farmyard cutters make charming cookies for the cookie jar and to use as orna­ments for packages or the holiday tree. 
Sugar cookie cutouts can be decorated with buttercream icing stars and trimmed with icing bows. Flour-salt dough ornaments can be used as pack­age decorations any time, or as tree ornaments for Christmas gifts. 
Rollout cookies 

This cookie recipe is not as rich as many cookies and tastes 
MARY BERGER 
accent writer 
T 
here is one thing some people might dislike about their jobs: the commute they have going to and from work each day. One visiting profes­sor in the American Studies department has a longer com­mute than most people do. 
Michael Novak, visiting Welch American Studies Pro­fessor, flies to South Bend from his home in Washington 
D.C. every Wednesday mor­ning and flies back two days later. In between, he teaches two classes: "The Rise of Neoconservative Thought in America," and "Aristotle's America." 
Novak works at the Ameri­can Enterprise Institute, a think tank in our nation's cap­ital, when he is not teaching. He admits he gets tired of the traveling, but he finds teach­ing at Notre Dame to be worthwhile for various reasons. 
"Teaching has revived me in a way," he said. "It is good because it makes you explain yourself and your point to others." 
Novak also enjoys being on campus because he spent his high school years here. "I arrived in August 1947, lived in Holy Cross Hall, studied in the seminary, and played a lot of football," he reminisced. 
From the seminary, Novak went on to study in the Holy 
Calvin and Hobbes 
VPSIOE C\JWN, SPliT C\.11(;5
fo. ZILLION 1-\IU:S tROio\ ~~ 
nGI\TL'( iC:I 1-\\C:. ~SHIP! CLIMB 0\JT AND Fl~ IT 
PI.A~t.\, 0\JR 1-\E~ 1-\\JST 
OOt. S\..IP WILL S£~0 1\\M 
1\\J~I~ ltm> 1\\t Ho~RS Of 1\\E \titltil'lt. l!.e(ONO! 
111\'<\SEU: IN I£RO GRA\JI"N ! 



American professor to teach 
Cross Brothers' Eastern Province and was chosen to study in Rome. "I spent two years there and was feeling restless and uncertain about ordination," he said. Conse­quently, he left Rome, and after one and a half years at a D.C. college, knew it was time to leave. 
"I wanted to write fiction and be involved in politics. I couldn't do all that I wanted to while representing a religi­ous order," he explained. With one hundred dollars, Novak went to New York and started writing. Book reviews, short articles, a novel, and some political speeches proved to be the stuff from which Novak was able to make a living. 
"I always wanted to be a writer," he said. So with this move, Novak achieved one of his lifelong goals. 
A masters from Harvard in the history and philosophy of religion and a brief teaching stint at Stanford followed this period of Novak's life. Anx­ious to return to the East, however, Novak left Stanford to teach in New York. 
"This was 1968 when stu­dents were very radical in their political views. I was too. Almost everyone was:" 
Novak did not retain his radical views for very long. "Seeing how outrageous all the radicals were deradi­calized you. It taught me how elastic the words of the left are and how they can be per­verted by a few," said Novak. 
"I started criticizing the excesses of the left, and was attacked as a renegade." Gradually he was excommun­icated from certain intellec­tual circles. 
It was at this time that Novak began to argue that the key political issues which should be addressed are the family and the community. Today Novak continues to defends these issues. Reflect­ing upon the current state of American politics, he said, "The party which best defines what is needed by the family and the community will domi­nate politics for the next fifty years." 
In regards to the Demo­cratic party, Novak thought during his post-radical days that it was becoming too much the party of the "New Class" and no longer the party of the people. Today, he believes, "The Democrats are not doing very well. Even though the old Democratic ideas are good ones, the new Democrats forget them," said Novak. Novak's plans for the future do not include more time at Notre Dame, but do include, possibly, a new book on this topic. "I may do one on how to rescue the Democratic party." He explained, "We shouldn't abandon the institution but should try to revive it." 

Bill Watterson 

great with or without icing. It Farmyard ornaments also works well with closed cut­Here is a basic flour-salt ters as the dough keeps its dough for ornaments that will shape when baked. last for years. For extra protec­
1 cup butter tion, spray with clear acrylic1 cup sugar spray after ornaments are 1large egg baked, painted and dried. 1 teaspoon vanilla 4 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup salt 
2.75 cups flour 1.5 cups water Preheat oven to 400 degrees 
F. in a large bowl, cream but­Preheat oven to 350 degrees ter and sugar with an electric F. in a large mixing bowl mix mixer. Beat in egg and vanilla. all ingredients ; turn mixture Mix baking powder with flour; on counter or cutting board and add one cup at a time, mixing knead by hand for 5 minutes or 
after each addition. The dough until smooth. Roll on floured will be very stiff; blend last surface and cut with farmyard 
dough. (NOTE: dough can be end of drinking straw. Bake 
tinted with Icing Color. Add cookies on aluminum foil­small amounts until desired covered cookie sheets for 20-25 color is reached.) minutes. Cookies will move 
For chocolate cookies: stir in easily on foil when finished. 3 ounces melted, unsweetened Remove and cool; make chocolate. If dough becomes faces with colored markers or 
too stiff, add water, a teaspoon paint with acrylic paint. Store at a time. in a cool dry place. 

Easy holdiday entertaining 
Associated Press pumpkin and beaten eggs. Blend well. Slowly pour 
Simple but elegant desserts pumpkin mixture into pie shell. can be prepared before the. Bake until filling is barely set party begins; some even a day in center (approximately 40 in advance. minutes). Cool. Garnish with 
The following desserts pro-Cognac Whipped Cream, if vided by the Cognac Informa-desired. Serves 8. tion Bureau take no longer than COGNAC whipped cream 20 minutes of kitchen prepara-add 2 tablespoons cognac to tion time: 1 cup whipped cream. Beat un­
til stiff peaks form. 

Apple kringle 4 cups sliced apples Charente cake lt2 cup fruit mincemeat 4 cup cognac 114 cup chopped nuts 1 package yellow cake mix 114 cup hot water mixed with (without pudding) 
4 tablespoons cognac 4 eggs lt2 cup butter 14 cup vegetable oil lt2 cup flour 1 package instant vanilla 
lt2 cup sugar pudding 
Arrange apples, mincemeat lt2 Clip water and chopped nuts in buttered Cognac Glaze (recipe fol­baking dish, Pour water and lows) cognac mixture over mixture. Combine ingredients and 
In different bowl, cream but­beat with electric mixer until ter. Add flour and sugar. Blend well blended (about 4 minutes). to form crumbs. Sprinkle over Place mixture into bundt pan. apple mixture. Bake in oven at Bake in preheated 350 degree 400 degrees F for 40-45 minutes F oven 50 minutes or until or until apples are tender and toothpick comes out clean. Top tops are crisp and brown. Top with Cognac glaze. with whipped cream or vanilla Cognac glaze ice cream. Serves 8. lt2 cup cognac 
1 cup confectioners' sugar Holiday pumpkin pie 314 cup water 1 pie crust , Stir over low heat until sugar 
3 small eggs is melted. then boil for two 1 cup evaporated milk minutes. Drizzle over cooled lt2 cup light brown sugar, cake. Decorate cake with con­
packed fectioners' sugar as desired. 114 cup cognac l/4 cup light corn syrup Cognac glogg 2 teaspoons pumpkin pie 1 bottle Cognac 
spice lt2 cup sugar 114 teaspoon salt 12 whole cloves 
1 stick cinnamon 1.5 cups canned pumpkin 2 cups sherry
Cognac Whipped Cream 

(recipe follows) Blanched raisins, unsalted whole almonds Preheat oven to 450 degrees In a heavy saucepan, heat the 
F. bake pie crust 7 minutes. cognac, sugar and spices to just Remove. Reduce oven to 325 F. under boiling. Add the sherry. beat eggs. In separate bowl, In each warmed mug, place a combine milk, sugar, cognac, few almonds and raisins. syrup, spice and salt. Add Serves 10. 

' • ' ' ' ' ' o o ' o ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' I ' ' I t I I '----;-,-,~, ,-, ' ' 
0 I • o I 0 o •• t I t I • • I • I • o o • o \ , o , o 1 o o 1 o o o o o o 1 o , ' , o I I o o I • 'o' t I 0 ' ' 
The Observer Monday, December 5, 1988
.page 10 
DOMINO'S PIZZA CHALLENGES YOU TO 


BEAT THE CLOCK! 

THE TIME ON THE 
® 


CLOCK.IS THE PRICE YOU PAY! 
If you love Hot, Fresh Domino's Pizza®, then you'lllove this! 
Call Monday through Thursday from 6 pm-8 pm and order your favorite 1011 doubles with one item. Whatever time is on the clock is the prJce you pay -tax included! EXAMPLE: If you call at 6:35pm your price is $6.35 for two 1011 one item pizzas! You save money no matter when you call! No coupon necessary. Additional items available at regular price . 
. HURRY! Challenge ends December 31, t988. 
NOTRE DAME 
Hours: Sunday-Thursday
UNIVERSITY! 
4 pm-1 am

Call Us! 
Friday and Saturday


277-2151 
4 pm-2 am

1835 South Bend Ave. Now Hiring! 
Not valid with any other offer. 
Join the wor1d's largest pizza 
Valid at participating stores delivery company. Stop in 
only. Limited delivery area. Our today at your local Domino's 
drivers carry less than $20.00. Pizza Store. Drivers earn up 
©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc. to $8.00 per hour! ' 
• 



Viewpoint
Monday, December 5, 1988 ~e11 
Armstrong was more honest in an earlier letter to Rev. Theodore Res­burgh (Feb. 9, 1988) which was included with materials sent to the Peace In­stitute to explain the Center and to canvass support for it. This dossier was shared with me as Director of African Studies and as a Fellow of the Institute. At that time Armstrong wrote: 
"I apologise for the delay in following up. I am no longer with Pagan Inter­national, the conflict resolution firm in Washington through which corporate funds were made available to pursue the Notre Dame project. The initiatives have now been shifted to the Center for Dialogue and Development. I have be­come executive director of the CCD. Ollie Williams is one of our Board mem­bers and it is being reconstituted in Colorado....Now we seem ready to roll." 
It was inexcusable for The Observer not to have checked with me before publishing Armstrong's serious accu­sations. 
Unless the English language has lost all its meaning, the statement that cor­porate funds were made available through Pagan International to pursue the Notre Dame project means what it says. Pagan is the public relations firm that was commissioned by Shell to produce an anti-sanctions strategy. Armstrong was at the time employed by Pagan and was responsible for that strategy, particularly as it targeted congregations and educational institu­tions. 
What is chilling in this ShelWaganNotre Dame affair, is that Williams and Armstrong's persistent denials reveal so much about how these men operate and, apparently, what they are used to getting away with. They could have chosen a more straightforward (ethical?) approach as 
P.O. Box Q 
I [)(}NNO. 
ARE YOU
!A/HeR& ARE 
IGIJ&SSIN 
1<100/NG? 
!A/HAT

Wf5(j(}/N6 
MTJ.IUS ... 
THERe'S NO NOIAJ?
70PUT 
I<OOMIN
HER? 
HWFOR... I OH,600!
\ 
' /. 
it is our dream to see him released before we graduate. He is one of our major priorities along with a second goal of rallying support for an upcom­ing bill to prohibit the use of capital punishment in the United States. 
Amnesty International, with the help of the Student Government, Campus Ministry, and the Center for Social Con­cerns, has organized a Christmas card drive to share our spirit, our peace, and our optimism with Mr. Fazzie. Our goal is for every student, faculty member, administrator, and employee of Notre Daine and Saint Mary's to send his or her best wishes to Mr. Fazzie and to let him know that he is in the hearts and minds of thousands of people this Christmas. Secondly, we hope to draw attention to Mr. Fazzie's unjust im­prisonment and to, indirectly, apply pressure upon the South African gov­ernment to either bring charges against him or to release him. · 
All week, tables will be set up in the dining halls on both campuses and pre­addressed, stamped Christmas cards will be available for all to wish Mr. Fazzie a happy holiday season; we will also be collecting cards in the dorms. We encourage everyone to sign their name to a card and extend to Mr. Fazzie a personal season's greeting. 
Teresa Berg Breen-Phillips Hall Dec. 4, 1988 
Shell affair raises ethical questions 
Dear Editor: 

Recently, Associate Provost Oliver Williams addressed the Student Senate (The Observer, Nov. 29, 1988), to defend the University's continued investment in South Africa. In the course of his address, Williams produced a letter from James Armstrong, a fellow cor­porate ethicist with whom he has been working to establish a Post-Apartheid Center at Notre Dame. The Observer reports that Armstrong's letter: "refuted Walshe's claims that Pagan International influenced Armstrong's views on South Africa, and denied con­nections between a post-apartheid cen­ter and Shell or Pagan. "Walshe's statement: 'Notre Dame is cooperating with a Shell campaign to take pressure off South Africa and to establish an In­stitute for the Study of Post-Apartheid Problems' is, to put it bluntly, a lie," wrote Armstrong. 
Garry Trudeau 
THER£'5A fA/OMAN THISI5N7 Cf?fATUR& FAIR,J.J. IN OUR YOUGrJTTA Be[). GIV&M& I 
AF&W M!NUT&S.' 
~ 

U.S. health care wrongly slandered 
Dear Editor: 
r 
After reading Michael Schadek's recent Viewpoint column of Oct. 27, I felt compelled to reply. Schadek struck 
upon several issues in his brief, critical 
and unfair essay on U.S. health care. 
First he chastises the American 
Medical Association for its opinion that 
a "national health plan," i.e., socialized 
medicine, would lower the quality of 
health care available to U.S. citizens. 
Schadek should look deeply into the ef­
fects of the Medicare system on hospi­
tals and physicians before dismissing 
that opinion. Approximately 115 hospi­
tals have closed, as well as numerous 
physician practices, because of this 
government administered elderly "na­
tional health plan." Medicare covers 
only 80 percent of what it deems 
"reasonable" cost, and usually only 60 
percent of true costs, while adding sig­
nificant bureaucracy to the system. In 
the private sector, the HMO concept 
offers "free" care to its members, but 
part of that free care mandates limited 
access to medical services, especially 
speciality referrals. And over all of this 
are Peer Review Organizations 
(PROs) whose main emphasis is cost 
containment, not quality of care. 
Next it is the "huge profits secured by scrupulous and unscrupulous doc­tors" that Schadek resents. My general surgery practice is in northern Wiscon­sin and covers two hospitals and clinics. During 1988, I will be away from my practice for a total of 17 days. When home, I am always available to my patients. My wage comes to $14.00hour for that availability; certainly on a par with the local plumber or electrician and definitely less than the star profes­sional halfback. I do not apologize for my earnings. My training, responsibil­ity and hours worked deserve them. I don't disagree that there are physicians whose charges are unreasonable, but don't put all of us in the same category. 
Mr. Schadek should also know that if his mother's illness required elective surgery as treatment, it may be two years before her name comes to the top of the list. Of course, if she were a mem­ber of England's upper class, she would find fee-for-service care available to her. 
Mr. Schadek really "cannot claim complete knowledge of the U.S. health care profession," or of the British Health Plan either. Both systems are 

Doonesbury 
imperfect and require reform. However, Schadek has extrapolated a simple, single medical encounter in a foreign system, into a total condemna­tion of our own. During his continued stay in London, he should delve into the intricacies of the British system. If his opinion is still so uncompromising, if not caustic, then I would suggest that he pray for good health while in the U.S.A. 
James P. Quenan, M.D. 
Class of 1967 
Nov. 30, 1988 
Amnesty organizes letter writing drive 
Dear Editor: 
As final exams approach, I find myself spending more and more time dreaming of Christmas at home, a time to be shared with family and friends. 
It must be very difficult for Mutile Henry Fazzie. I'm sure he does not fan­tasize of such celebrations. Indeed, he probably has just one wish for this Christmas--to spend it with his family as a free man. 
Mr. Fazzie is facing a Christmas that neither you nor I could imagine, one spent alone in prison, with no charge brought against him, and thus, no hope for release. He is just one of the hundreds of South Africans currently being detained in state prisons under Section Three of the State of Emer­gency Regulations. This mandate al­lows for government officials to im­prison individuals indefinitely without charges being filed or a trial initiated. Under this order Mr. Fazzie was ar­rested on Aug. 5, 1986. 
Amnesty International is aware of Mr. Fazzie's plight and has been working since his 1986 arrest to free him. He is just one of the approximately 5,000 political prisoners that Amnesty adopts each year in their fight against injustice in countries all around the world. Amnesty is remarkabl~ in that it consists of nothing more than a net­work of hundreds of thousands of con­cerned individuals who feel they must raise their voices in protest against all affronts to the dignity of human life. Its weapon is the written word, and it works to inform the entire world of human rights violations. It has no greater goal than the release of one prisoner. The fact that thousands have benefitted during the 27 years of exis­tence is a testament to its success. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's group has adopted Mr. Fazzie as its own case; they sought to establish a Post­Apartheid Center: they might have 
· recanted and disowned the initial ShelWagan proposal. Instead, they have chosen the reprehensible route of denial. 
Without my serendipitous receipt of a considerable amount of documentation--minutes and letters-­Williams and Armstrong's attempts to mislead Notre Dame might well have succeeded. The affair also raises some troubling questions about Oliver Wil­-­liams' modus operandi as a high profile executive officer at our University. 
Prof. Peter Walshe Government Department Dec. 4, 1988 

Campus Quote 
"Always behave like a duck­·keep· calm and unruffled on the surface but paddle like the devil underneath." 
Jacob Braude 

-
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Ed1ror-m-Ch1ef .Chros Murphy Busmess Manager ..... John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managmg Ed1ror .. Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ......... Molly Killen News Ed1tor Regis Coccia Advertising Manager L1nda Goldschmidt News Ed1tor Mark Mclaughlin Product1on Manager Bernadene Shilts 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of V1ewpomr Ed1ror . Matt Slaughter Sysrems Manager Mark Ridgeway Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary's College. II does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of Sporrs Ed1ror ... Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hardiman the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nSt1tut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and ObfeCtlvely as Accenr Ed1ror Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion of Jhe ma)onty of the Editonal Board Sa1nr Mary's Ed1ror Sandy Cerimele Commentanes. leners and the lnstde Column present the v1ews of theor authors. Column Pharo Ed1ror M1chael Moran space IS ava1lable to all members of the communtty and the free expression of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged Founded November 3,1966 
-
Monday, December 5, 1988
page 12 The Observer 



Bengals beat Chargers; Tampa Bay stuns Bills 
Associated Press gals, setting a team record with shoulder that sidelined him last lier with a bruised shoulder, Elway 86 yards for a touch­15 rushing touchdowns. week, threw two touchdown returned in the third quarter down and sacked the Denver 
The Cincinnati Bengals Boomer Esiason, the NFL's passes to Stacy Robinson as and finished with 18 comple­quarterback twice. Townsend moved into the playoffs and top-ranked passer, completed New York moved to the top of tions in 30 attempts for 206 also recovered a fumble for a closer to the home-field edge 10 of 19 passes for 178 yards and the NFC East. The Giants, 9-5, yards. The Eagles are 8-6. touchdown last week at Seattle. throughout the AFC playoffs two touchdowns to complement can win the division by taking with a 27-10 victory over the Woods' running. San Diego is their final two regular-season 
Vikings 45, Saints 3 Browns 24, Cowboys 21
San Diego Chargers on Sunday. now 4-10. games.While the Bengals were 
Minnesota's stingy defense At Cleveland, the Brownsclinching their first playoff Buccaneers 10, Bills 5 Phoenix, 7-7 after losing its turned offensive, too, as Carl sent Dallas to a team-recordspot in six years, the Buffalo third in a row, has only an out­Lee and Jesse Solomon 12th defeat this season and lOthBills, the only other conference Vinny Testa verde, the league side chance at a wild-card spot. returned interceptions for in a row. Bernie Kosar passed team already into the playoffs, leader in interceptions, didn't touchdowns. The Vikings ex­for 308 yards and three touch­were upset 10-5 by Tampa Bay. commit a turnover for the first tended their string of not allow­downs, including two less than That left both the Bills and Ben­time this season and scored on Redskins 20, Eagles 19 ing a touchdown to 17 quarters two minutes apart in the fourth gals with 11-3 records. a 4-yard run. The host Buc­in winning their fifth straight quarter.
If the teams finish tied for caneers were losers of seven of Washington, at 7-7 already game --Minnesota has out­
the best record in the AFC, Cin­their last eight games. Buffalo eliminated from the division In other games, it was
scored its last four opponents
cinnati gets the advantage be­lost its second straight after a race, damaged Philadelphia's Kansas City 38, New York Jets
123-9 and its last five 167-26.
cause it beat Buffalo last week. seven-game winning streak. chances with a late rally. Chip 34; Indianapolis 31, Miami 28; 
A victory next Sunday at Testa verde the 1986 Heisman Lohmiller's 44-yard field goal Raiders 21, Broncos 20 Detroit 30, Green Bay 14; New Houston would give the Ben­Trophy winner has a NFL-high with one second remaining England 13, Seattle 7; San gals the AFC Central title in 31 interceptions. capped the comeback after the ' The Raiders' win threw the Francisco 13, Atlanta 3;
--
Sam Wyche's fifth year as head Redskins trailed 19-10 in the AFC West into a three-way tie Cleveland 24, Dallas 21;coach. fourth quarter. at 7-7. Denver and Seattle also Sunday night, Pittsburgh
Elbert "Ickey" Woods ran Giants 44, Cardinals 7 have that record. was at Houston. for a career-high 141 yards and Super Bowl hero Doug Wil­Greg Townsend returned an On Monday night, Chicago is two touchdowns for the Ben-Phil Simms, ignoring a sore liams, who left the game ear-interception of a pass by John at the Los Angeles Rams. 
SPORTS BRIEFS  
The ND wrestling team placed seventh in this weekend's Las Vegas Invitational. Five indi­viduals -­Pat Boyd, Jery Durso, Chris Geneser, Marcus Gowens and Andy Radenbaugh -­placed among the top seven in their weight divisions. Fur­ther details will appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. -The Observer  The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold its final meeting of the semester Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Anybody who has turtlenecksmust either bring in his or her money or the remaining turtlenecks. Money for tryouts ($20) also will be taken. The itinerary will be given for those going to Steamboat, who must  The NO Boxing Club is holding a meeting for anyone interested in joining the club or par­ticipating in next semester's Bengal Bouts. The meeting will be Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the boxing gym located at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. For more information, call Mike Noone at x3386. -The Obser­ 
Ed Veome of Notre Dame was named the most outstanding diver during this weekend's National  make sure to bring in his or her insurance form. Any questions should be directed to Woodsy at 288­5423. -The Observer  ver  
Catholic Swimming and Diving Championships. The Irish swimming teams finished fourth in both the men's and women's draws. Further details will appear in Tuesday's isssue of The Observer. -The Observer  NVA basketball referees have a mandatory meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer  Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer  

The Observer Notre Daine oHice, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's oHice, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  FOR RENT FURNISHED ROOMS,SECURITY SYS­TEM ALSO 2 BEDROOM HOME.BOTH  1978 Ford lTD Wagon. Good Condition $925 or best offer. 684-4621. IMPRESS THE GUY OR GIRL OF YOUR CHOICE WITH YOUR CULTURE AND GRASP OF THE FINE ARTS-TAKE A  BUY/SELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY 90-250, SELL 125-400. AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE. THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE 800-727-3287.  ATTENTION COL: Class on ethics? Tuesdays-Noontime V (11th floor 'brair) I'd love to meet-up,  SWEENEY SISTERS UNITE!! One day soon we will both get to sleep In our real beds again!! P.S. f'm starting to get pretty hungry, aren't you? I think It' about time wa took Ramona and  
- THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPED OVER THE LAZY DOG. THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMP THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPED OVER THE ACADEMIC9USINESS TYPING 237-1949  WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 ································································ WANTED OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All flelda. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04-Corone Del Mar, CA 92625  DATE TO THE NUTCRACKER BALLET IN CHICAGO ON DECEMBER 9 FOR A PRE FINALS BREAK!I THIS IS OPENING NITE AND IS NOW SOLD OUT. KNOCK SOMEONE'S SOCKS OFF AND ASK THEM NOW. CALL NORM AT# 3255 FOR MY LAST 2 TIX. GOING TO PHILADELPHIA?!? 1 will sell you your plane ticket CALL 284-5204 ANY'TIMEI  MATEO'S SUB SHOP FREE DELIVERY 271-oSUB "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB" ................................................................ CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS DELIVERED TO YOUR SWEETIE Come In and chooae a stocking, flU It with goodies and top It'with mistletoe! Let us deliver It lor you anywhere on  just tell me howl DSN2 I know ij is early but I'm already looking for a ride to Mpls-St.Paul. I can leave anytime after 4:00PM on Dec. 14. Please call 284-4430. .......seNioii si<'l'rii·l;;................. SIGNUPS DEC. 7 AND 8 IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE  John Semuel to the hoop. Offering a ride to Buffalo for break. Call Tom at 1596 Happy birthday to the true girl from hell I We love you eventhough you are the real Consueloll Have the happiest love Roo, Rach, Jen & Jill  
Need help In accounting before finals­ the Notre Dame or St. Mary's campua.  FROM 4 TO 7 PM. DON'T MISS OUTI!  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Yogi's Yogurt. Now delivering COLOMBO Y06URT Mon. Tues, Thurs night 7:00-9:30 2T7-4337.  big $$$ call Marl< at 256-7139(1eave messge) DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO COLORADO FOR CHRISTMAS. CAN SHARE GAS AND DRIVING. DAYS FLEXIBLE. CAN PRO­ ········································· ....... PLANE TICKET, ONE-WAY OR ROUND TRIP S.B. TO WHITE PLAINS,N. Y. 12'! 4 RETURN 11!7. CHEAP!! CALL JIM AT 277-9956  The Country Harvester LaFortune•Student Center basement Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30 pm 239-6714 ................................................................  RIDERS NEEDED to BOSTON I So.NEW HAMPSHIRE lor X-Mas Break! can taka up to 4 call BECCA # 4248  JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIPI Jan 27-29 Sign up with $50 al class oHice Tue, Wed, Thur 2-4  
STUDENTS­WE HAVE LOWERED OUR PRICES! You aald they ware too high-we hurd youI Give ua a try lor your typing or wordproceaalng. Put your reeume on our national on-Una reaume reglatry. TYPING SERVICES UNUMITED (1 mi. north of Notre Deme In Ro..land). 271­8118. Hours: 9 am to 3 pm, Monday­Friday.  VIDE STOPOVER FOR THOSE GOING FARTHER WEST. CALL PETE AT 283­4601. ................................................................ We need 'the following ND football memorabilia: Any GA stubs from any home games; Pictures of "Nobody Leaves NO # 1" banner during Miami game; Photos of Hogs playing in mud on field after Penn Slate. We will pay you tor these items. Please call Chris at 283­ TICKETS BUYING FIESTA BOWL TOPS PAID 800-288-2461. I NEED FIESTA BOWL TIX. WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$. CALL C.B. AT 4364.  '  THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS TOUCH "REAL MISTLETOE" at The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Center ba..ment. Mon~Frl-12 noon-6:30 pm  Pitt Club Bua Slgnupa Pitt Club Bus Slgnupa Tuea. Lltne 7 p.m. $60 Roundtrip ???'1 call Mike or Kevin x3322 Leave Right Alter Lest Final VITO'S BARBERSHOP 4.50 HAIRCUTS Walk-Ins Welcome Tony says:"Never a Dull Moment"  ············································· ................ JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIP IS COMING! Sign up nowll 2-4 Tu,Wed,Th THE B-P BLITZ SALUTES ITS COACHES­MIKE LOHMAN DAVE MITCHELL JEFF EllA PAT PINK MATT WATERS YOU'RE THE SEXIEST & THE  
..  I LOST/FOUND I FOUND: Airplane pin near Nieuwland Hall about six weeks ago. Call Mr. Clarl< at 287-2827.  3169 or Pete at283-4601. .. .................. ............................... CLEVELANDIIII I need a ride home for Xmas break. Call Kathie al 4190. Female Roommate wanted for 2nd se­mester to share apartment in RunAway Bay. For details call 259-7911 evenings.  . .................... . WANTED: 1 OR 2 FIESTA BOWL TIX BY NO ALUM, $125 EA. (415) 781-9570 EXT. 4132 DAYS OR EVENING (COLLECT) AT (415) 456-9240. AIRLINE TICKET S.B TO SARASOTA,Fl 12<231!8-w.ti9 ROUND TRIP $250  RATPICK-IF YOU COME BACK FROM LONDON A HIPPIE YOUR DAD WILL BEAT YOU SENSELESS AND THEN I'll GET MY TUR~ T.J. AND I WENT 4 WHEELIN' LAST'NIGHT AT 3 A.M. WE'll TELL YOU THAT STORY LATER. ... HASBY II you can decorate beaketa & wreaths,  1523 Lincolnway West-S.B. FRIDAY, DEC. 9, IS THE LAST ISSU OF THE OBSERVER. GET YOUR GOODBYES AND CHRISTMAS GREETING CLASSIFIEDS IN BEFORE THURSDAY, DEC. 8, 3 P.M.  BEST!! THANKS FOR ALL YOUR HARD WORK, TIME, & DEDICATION! WE LOVE YOU, THE B-P BLITZ I need riders to South FLA for XMAS Will share $ and driving. Call Kevin x1540.  
- LOST: black Waytarer Ray-Ban sun­glassas (2-3 weeks ago) I can identify them I Please call 4666 LOST: a gold-laced Timex watch burgandy bend, Roman numeral• Loa! late on 11130 either near LaMan'• ahuttte atop, on ahuttle or be­tween Meln Circle and South  PLEASE! PLEASEI HELPII The family is corning up. I NEED 4 G.A. tix for the ND-IU Basketball game. call CRIS X4806 SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just off N.D.  X7575 Need 4 FIESTA Bowl Tix. Will pay. 259-2512 5-10 P.M. PERSONALS  1 have a Job lor youI Plea.. contact Carol at The Country Harvester, 239­6714. Pleeae call lor an appointment. BAKER'S SPECIAL Fresh pecan halves & pieces, diced dates, fresh almonds whole & pieces European chocolate ready lor making your own special candles. BUY NOW  HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY CHRIS! HAVE A GREAT DAYILOVE, MUNA MIKE P. What goes around comes around Revenge Ia sweeter ... Your Buddy, Ellen  Special thanks to everyone who helped to make my birthday so special, espe­cially my roommies Jen and Sue. All of you are the best! Trina  
GREAT ..ntlmentel value, REWARD PLEASE c.oll Matt # 3810  Ave. Ph# 233-2342 Female graduate student needs room­mate to share apt. at CasHe Point Apart­ UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2T7-3889 MATH TUTOR-234-3878.  FOR YOUR HOLIDAY BAKING The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Center basement  HAPPY IF YOU WENT TO MORE VOLLEYBALL GAMES YOU WOULD'HAVE DATES LIKE US  PLANE TICKET FOR SALE: S.BEND TO BUFFALO ON FRI DEC. 16, 2PM. PRICE NEGOCIABLE. JEANINE 284­ 
Lost: room key w1th 209 stamped on FOUND: Two jackets. (actually,these were taken accidentally by a few intox­ICated H.S fnends from Sr. bar lhe Sat. of Penn St game.) Please call J.C. at  meniS for spring semester. Call Karin at 2899 for details. ............................................................ FOR SALE 79 BUICK SKYHAWK.LOW  CLUB 23 The best stuHed pizza town. Groups welcome. 234-3541 hlag. ......................... ···································· PRAY TO ST. JUDE OF  Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30 pm 239-6714 THE COUNTRY HARVESTER has the perfect Chrlstmaa gllta lor tho.. spe­cial people In your life. Conveniently located In the LaFortune Student Cen­ter ba..ment. Open Mon-Frl-12 noon- To my pals John and Pat Thanks for keeping a good sense of humor. You are obviously real MEN with exquisite taste in friends. Juat keep your hands out of our drawer& and everything will be Just line.  4314. CHRIS FROM STANFORD WE HAVE YOUR EARS CAN WE BORROW YOUR GOOFY SLIPPERS NOW? # 4009 TO THE GUYS WHO GAVE ME $5 TO PARK AT USC GAME: I FORGOT WHERE YOU LIVEI I WILL PAY YOU  
1001  MILE,CLEAN LOADED.27NI306  6:30pm.  BACK! WHERE ARE YOU?  

-
page 13

Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer 


Cardinals take it to Hoosiers 
By THERESA KELLY and see if we can get started." 
Saturday's Results

Louisville jumped out to a big 
Assistant Sports Editor Indiana 79, Louisville 101
lead before Indiana was even Louisville (101) 
INDIANAPOLIS --It won't in the game, beating the M FG-A FT-A R F p Payne 27 6-7 0-0 3 2 14
be a typical Bobby Knight In­Hoosiers down the floor to take 
Kimbro 27 4-7 0-0 7 3 8
diana basketball team that a 9-0 lead with less than two Ellison 25 9-13 1-2 5 5 19 
visits Notre Dame Tuesday minutes gone in the contest. Hawley 22 1-2 0-0 5 1 2 Smith, L. 28 6-14 3-3 0 2 17
night, but it will be a hungry The Cardinals dominated most 
Holden 20 4-5 1-1 1 3 9 
one. of the first half, leading by 16 
Spencer 21 5-8 3-3 7 3 13 The Hoosiers were destroyed with 12 minutes to go before the Sullivan 16 6-10 0-0 1 0 12 Brewer 12 2-!1 2-2 2 3 7
by Louisville 101-79 Saturday in Hoosiers recovered to get 
Fraley 2 0-1 0-0 0 0 0
the first game of the Big Four within 10 at the half, 51-41. 200 43-71 10-11 31 22 101 Classic. You know something Indiana cut the lead to nine 
Knight­FG Team
Pct.--.909.

is wrong when a on a jump shot by freshman Pct.--.606. FT 
rebounds--0. Three-point FG--Payne 2,
coached defense gives up 100 star Eric Anderson on a pass 
Smith 2, Brewer 1 Turnovers--9. Assists-­points, especially when it was from Chuckie White, but the 31,Smith (10). Technicals--none. the second time this year an Cardinals would not let Indiana (79) 
M FG·A FT -A R F P

opponent had cleared the cen­Knight's crew get any closer. 4 1-1 0-0 0 0 2
Robinsontury mark. Before that, the last Sloan 18 2-4 0-1 1 0 4 
time it happened was 17 years "Our defense picked up in the Jadlow 32 0-8 5-6645 
Edwards 35 6-14 0-0 6 2 12
ago. second half," Knight said, "but 
Hillman 20-04-4010"This was by far our best we let too many things get Meeks 35 2-5 5-8209 
game," said Louisville head co­away from us. It was a differ­Oliphant 8 0-2 0-0 0 0 0 
Anderson 23 5-6 6-7 8 4 16
ach Denny Crum. "We haven't ent tempo for us, and we're not 
White 30 10-12 0-0 3 0 20been playing well. We talked used to it." D'Aioisio 5 1-2 0-0 1 1 2 
about having fun, playing this White led the Hoosiers with Jones 30-30-0100 
Pelkowski 3 1-1 1-2 1 0 3
game like we did in practice, , a game-high 20 points, followed 
Smith 2 0-1 1-2 0 0 1
and we won with maximum ef­by Jay Edwards with 18. Pervis 200 28-59 21-28 33 12 79 fort." Ellison led Louisville with 19, 
FG Pct.--.475. FT Pct.--.750. Team
"We got off to a bad start," followed by LaBradford Smith 
rebounds--4. Turnovers--18. Three-pointKnight said. "We had to really with 17. The Cardinals were FG--Edwards 2. Assists--13, Edwards, (4),work to get back in it. We much quicker than the Meeks (4). Technicals--none. 
Halftime--Louisville 51, Indiana 41.
turned the ball over too much. Hoosiers, who had an unchar­
Ofticials--Jim Bain, Tom Rucker, Mike Jag.
We didn't handle the ball well. acteristic 18 turnovers, 14 in the 
A--42,214.
Now we just have to go back first half. 
Saturday's Results Notre Dame 81, Kentucky 65 Kentucky (65)
Big Four Ellery
M FG-A FT-A R F P Hanson 38 1-10 7-8 7 1 9 Mills 31 3-7 1-3 1 2 7
continued from page 20 continued from page 20 
Scott 16 1-4 0-0 2 2 2 Miller 32 6·10 1-3 3 3 13 
the Irish at halftime with nine 
fresh, and three dunks --two Sutton 31 1-5 0-1 2 3 2 
Ellis, LeR 28 8-11 6-10 4 1 22 points. He finished the game 5­by Scott Paddock and one by 
Pelphrey 12 2-3 0-0 2 2 4 of-9 from two-point range. 
Ellis --put the charge in the 
Feldhaus 8 1-2 0·0 4 1 2 Irish as they dominated the in­Farmer 3 0-1 2·2 1 1 2 
Davis 10-0 But Ellery's most important
side throughout the first half. 0-000.0 
200 23-53 17-27 27 16 65 stretch came early in the
The Irish extended the lead second half, when Kentucky
to 56-37 on Ellery's fourth FG Pct.--.434. FT Pct.--.630. Team 
sliced a 17-point Irish lead to 11
three-point basket with 12: 51 to rebounds--1. Turnovers--15. Assists--11 
(Sutton (4). points on Derrick Miller'sgo, and the Wildcats could get 
Notre Dame (81) three-pointer with 14: 05 tono closer to the Irish than the M FG-A FT-A R F P play.
final 16-point spread. Ellis, LaP 30 6-10 0-0 16 2 12 Paddock 27 5-7 0-1 11 4 10 Fredrick 18 3-8 2-3 0 2 8
In addition to Ellery's team­Ellery reentered the game
Singleton 29 2-6 1-2 4 1 5
high 15 points, Keith Robinson Jackson 31 5-13 2-2 5 3 12 after an Irish timeout and took 
had 13 and Ellis and Jamere Ellery 18 5-9 1-1 3 2 11 control. He backed in against Robinson 17 6-13 1-2 10 1 13
Jackson both added 12. Pad­Deron Feldhaus and was fouled 
Tower 5 0-0 0-0030
dock and Robinson both tallied Bennett 8 0-3 0-1 1 2 0 as he hit a turnaround jumper. double figures in rebounds to Sweet 9 1-2 0-0 0 2 2 The free throw increased Notre Adkins 7 0-1 0-0 1 2 0
go with Ellis' 16; Paddock Dame's lead to 14 points.
Crawford 1 1-1 2-2 1 1 4
pulled down 12 and Robinson 200 34-73 9-14 53 25 81 
10. Ellis then stole the ball and
FG Pct.--.466. FT Pct.--.643. Team "When I see some consis­rebounds--1. Turnovers--16. Assists--20 pushed it upcourt to Ellery, tency, then I'll become a (Singleton 9). who dished inside for an easy
Halftime--NO 40, Kentucky 27. Officials-­
believer," Phelps said of his Keith Robinson layup. A min­
Paul Houseman, Peter Pavia, Larry Rose. team's fast start. A--45,214. ute later Ellery swished his fourth three-pointer to give Notre Dame a 56-37 edge.
•


Syracuse tops Louisiana Tech 1n OT 
"He's been shooting well all fall," Phelps explained. "We Associated Press six points in the spurt for Duke, seconds, pulling within 88-76, Jay Burson had 17 points to lead want him to shoot the threes. 4-0. after Illinois coach Lou Henson Ohio State, 3-1, which led by as Being from Springfield and 
knowing Kentucky basketball, 
Syracuse blew a 23-point Danny Ferry led the Blue took out his starters. many as 15 points early in the lead, then got six points from Devils with 21 points, and Brian second half. he was ready to play today." Derrick Coleman in overtime Schwabe had 17 for Northwes­No.12 Georgia Tech 94, 
But Ellery was far from
to beat Louisiana Tech for the tern. SMU 59,
Geo. Washington 64 
ready to play earlier in thetitle in the Carrier Classic bas­
No.16 N.C. State 57 
week. He missed practiceketball tournament Sunday. No. 2 Michigan 104, Tom Hammonds scored 15 of
Coleman, a junior forward, Tuesday, Wednesday and part
S. Dakota St. 66 Georgia Tech's first 23 points, Kato Armstrong hit two free 
of Thursday because of backwound up with 23 points for the 
and the Yellow Jackets built a throws with 66 seconds to play, 
spasms, and was worriedfourth-ranked Orangemen, 
Michigan, 5-0, ran off nine 51-26 halftime lead before lifting Southern Methodist over Phelps might hold him back in
who are 7-0. 
straight points to take a 22-10 coasting over George Washing­North Carolina State, now 2-1. 
Saturday's Classic. 
Louisiana Tech, with its first 
lead, and the Wolverines ton. Dennis Scott had a career­Armstrong scored 17 points. 
"I thought Coach was goingloss in four games, sent it into 
buried Division II South high 31 points for Tech, 3-0. 
to hold me back a little bit and overtime when Byron Newton 
Dakota State, which hasn't No.f8 Villanova 80, save me for Tuesday (against hit a 3-pointer as time ran out. 
played a Division I school since No.14 Fla. St. 104, Vermont 58 Indiana)," Ellery said. 
Randy White scored 20 of his the 1985-86 season. 
No.19 Florida 86
29 points in the second half for 
Loy Vaught had 24 points and Florida State, 3-0, reached the Villanova, 4-1, outscored Ver­Instead, the former highLouisiana Tech. 
Stephen Thompson and Matt Glen Rice 23 in the runaway. 100-point plateau for the third mont 16-4 over the final five school Player of the Year in the straight game, getting 31 points minutes of the first half to take state of Kentucky played 18
Roe led Syracuse with 25 points 
No.7 Illinois 91, from George McCloud and 21 a 16-point lead at intermission. minutes and came up with his ­apiece. Roe scored five of his 
from Tony Dawson in beating Doug West had 20 of his 22
points in overtime. Mississippi 79 best performance against a
Florida, 3-2. 
points in the first half. school that did did not even 

Nick Anderson scored 23 recruit him. 
No. 1 Duke 86, No. 15 Ohio St. 77,
points, including a layup and No.11 Arizona 68, But Kentucky's lack of inter­
Northwestern 62 3-pointer that sparked Illinois W. Michigan 66 No.17 Temple 50 est did not bother Ellery while 
to a 12-0 lead in the first 79 he was leading the state in 
John Smith ignited a 16-2 seconds, and the Illini romped Ohio State went ahead to stay Anthony Cook had 21 points scoring as a high school senior. Duke run with a 3-point goal, over Mississippi. Ken Battle midway through the first half and Sean Elliott 18, leading When asked if he was a Ken­and the Blue Devils turned a had 19 points for Illinois, 3-0. on a jumper by Perry CarteF, Arizona over Temple in the tucky basketball fan as a youth, 36-33 lead into a runaway with Mississippi scored 14 con­and the Buckeyes stretched consolation game of the first Ellery shook his head and 10 minutes to play. Smith had secutive points in the final 90 their lead to 35-27 by halftime. Tournament of Champions. responded, "U of L." 
page 14 The Observer 

.. 
Our Holiday Promotion Is aReal Catch 
Modell Mode/20 Mode/40 
W/3.5" floppy W/20Mb hard drive w/40Mb hard drive 
Computer Center 
3.5"jloppy 3.5"jloppy
Room 25 Math Building 
w/ZMM-149 Amber or White Phospher monitor Reg. $1599 $1899 $2299

8:00AM-5:00PM 
Now $1499 $1799 $2199 w/ZCM-1390 RGB Analog color monitor 
-
Reg. $1799 $2099 $2499 Now $1699 $1999 $2399 


w/ZCM-1490 FTM color monitor 


data 
Reg. $1899 $2199 $2599 
Now $1849 $2149 $2549
systems 
Offer good thru Dec. 31. 1988 

THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON" 
MS-Wi~dows and MS·D(_>S _an-rrgiste~d trademarks of Microsoft Corp. Special pricing offer good only on purchases directly through Zt-nith Contact(s) listed above by studenls. faculty and staff for their own use. No othu dtscounts apply. Limll one personal computer and one monitor per individual in any 12-month period. Prices subject to change without notice. © 1988. Zenith Dat.o Systems -

[.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------, 
' 
Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer page 15 

Aikman, Peete, Walsh can't pass by Sanders 
**~**~***********:tl******:tl***********'**********'****'*'***'********************************
: ;
! TOUCHE ROSS : : fi1ANAGEMENT CONSULTING : * *
* * 
!* 'VItE~s you to a reception_ to discuss our * : l Research Associate position : 
~ University Club # t 5:30-7:00 : !* December 6, 1988 : * t This two to three year analyst position offers a challenging :!* environment in which Research Associates are integral * ! members of consulting project teams. ! : We will be recruiting at Notre Dame on January 30. # 
~********************************************************************~***************'*:~· 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Ok, Barry Sanders finally said it: "the Heisman Trophy really is a big deal." 
He may even have meant it. 
The weight of the 54th annual Heisman Trophy, which he won a few hours earlier, and the fact he was playing thousands of miles from home didn't seem to bother the poker-faced Sanders. 
He shrugged off the pressure the way he sheds would-be tacklers, carrying 42 times for 257 yards and four touchdowns. Oklahoma State University needed every one of those yards and points in closing out its regular season with a 45-42 
victory  over  Texas  Tech  in  
Tokyo on Sunday.  
On  Saturday  evening,  

Sanders appeared via satellite as CBS-TV aired the Heisman ceremonies. He never changed his expression, although he did 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 
seven free throws to seal the win. 
Robinson paced the Irish with 22 points, hitting 10 of 15 free throws. Bunek scored 15 points, but a tough physical defense held her to 7-of-18 shooting from the field. 
Perhaps most distressing to McGraw was that the Irish shot only 39 percent from the field during the loss. Arizona keyed inside on Bunek and forced Notre Dame to shoot from the outside. 
AIR 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 



255-7272 
international
{fit~ 
tours & travel 
117 S. MAIN MISHAWAKA, IN 
go bonkers and clap his hands together softly several times when he was announced as the runaway winner over quarter­backs Rodney Peete of South­ern California and Troy Aik­man of UCLA. 
He mentioned God, his offen­sive line, fullback Garrett Limbrick--his lead blocker -­and his parents, William and Shirley Sanders of Wichita, Kan. --which declared Jan. 6 as Barry Sanders Day --"for being so inspirational in my life and bringing me up the way they know I should be brought up." 
As usual, Sanders let his legs do his talking. 
The 5-foot-8, 197-pound junior tailback, who was hardly recruited in high school, set NCAA records that may stand for a long time --2,553 rushing yards (the old mark was 2,342 by Southern Cal's Marcus Allen en route to the 1981 Heisman) ; 39 touchdowns (the old mark was 29); 3,250 all-purpose 
"We really shot poorly," she said. "I don't remember ever shooting that poorly last year. We just couldn't score. We got a little hesitant, tentative and started taking bad shots." 
To add to Notre Dame's shooting woes, the Hoyas out­rebounded the Irish 45-32 and forced them into 26 turnovers. 
"We just didn't play well of­fensively," McGraw said. To counteract that we should have played well defensively, but we didn't. We've still got some work to do." 
The Irish, now 2-1, will host 
Marquette in their home 
opener Wednesday in the JACC. 
yards (Temple's Paul Palmer had 2,633 in 1986), and 295.5 all­purpose yards per game (rushing, receiving, returning punts and kickoffs) . 
For the umpteenth time, he said he would rather see his team "have a successful season than win an individual award.'' 
But he did call the Heisman "something I can take with me for a lifetime." 
In his last five games, Sanders came with a rush --no pun intended--to overtake Peete and Aikman in the race for the Heisman. He gained 320 yards against Kansas State, 215 against Oklahoma, 312 against Kansas, 293 against Iowa State and 257 against Texas Tech. 
Sanders received 559 first­place votes --ballots were received from 721 of the 913 Heisman electors --77 second­place votes and 47 third-place votes for 1,878 points on a 3-2-1 basis. 
e ens1ve y an e pe t e Irish to control the game's

Irish 
tempo.
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame's arsenal meth­for the game and contributed a odically chipped away at Penn kill and a service ace to give State's defense as Shea, who the team a 4-1 advantage. had been tallying thundering 
But even as Bennett and kills all evening, and Waller senior Maureen Shea were sen­and Bennett put the Lions away ding blocks back into the faces in the last game. of Penn State's hitters, the The Irish won the game by Irish seemed to be spinning frustrating the Lions at the net, their wheels. recording 30 team blocks to 
Mter fighting to a 6-6 their 13 and hitting .327 as a stalemate Head Coach Art team compared to Penn State's Lambert exhorted his players .177. to "Get into it!" But it was too Waller led the Irish little to late, as the Irish lost a onslaught with 25 kills for a .327 close game 14-16 to the Lions-­hitting percentage and added a who could only manage a team-high 14 total blocks to paltry .125 hitting percentage boost her chances of garnering for the game. All-American honors. 
The Irish got off to a sputter­Bennett too, was intimidat­ing start in game four and had ing at the net, pounding 23 kills to struggle for each point in the hardwood for an impres­
against the Lions, but Waller sive .487 hitting percentage owned the net offensively and while registering 12 total 
IN HONOR OF NOTRE DAME DULAC, ON THE EVE OF THE SOLEMNITY OF HER IMMACULATE CONCEPTION, HOLY MASS WILL BE OFFERED IN LATIN. ALL ARE INVITED TO ATTEND. 
DATE: Wednesday, Dec.7, 1988 
TIME: 5:00 p.m. 
PLACE: Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 
SPONSORED BY: Knights of the Immaculata 
ADWORKS 

Peete had 70-264-174-912 and Aikman31-149-191-582, followed by Miami (Fla.) quarterback 
Steve  Walsh,  16-108-77-341;  
West  Virginia  quarterback  
Major  Harris,  27-60-79-280;  

Michigan State offensive tackle Tony Mandarich, 3-9-25­52; Washington State quarter­back Timm Rosenbach, 6-6-14­44; Florida State defensive back Deion Sanders, 0-3-16-22; Indiana tailback Anthony Thompson, 0-3-14-21, and Ala­bama linebacker Derrick Thomas, 3-2-7-20. 
No.2 Miami 41, BYU 17 
Miami's defense had five in­terceptions --three by Bobby Harden --and five sacks, leading the rout over Brigham Young and keeping the Hur­ricanes in the national champi­onship picture. Donald Ellis returned one of the intercep­tionis 64 ards for a touchdown as Miami finished 10-1. 
Miami plays No. 6 Nebraska in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 2, while top-ranked and unde­feated Notre Dame plays No.3 and undefeated West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl the same day. 
Syracuse 24, Pitt 7 
Tight end Pat Davis made two long runs with short passes for touchdowns to lead Syracuse, 9-2, which is headed for the Hall of Fame Bowl against Louisiana State. 
Army 20, Navy 15 
Army, headed for the Sun Bowl against Alabama with a 9-2 record, wiped out a 3-0 Navy lead when Ben Barnett capped a 16-play, 63-yard drive with a 1-yard touchdown plunge with 
12: 05left in the second quarter. Keith Walker kicked three field 
oals for -the Cadets. 
oc s. 
Shea also had a good night, exploding off the 10-foot line for 16 kills for a .389 hitting percentage and tallying eight total blocks. 
But it was the return of Cun­ningham to lineup midway through game two that was a catalyst to the Irish victory. She and sophomore Tracey Shelton were dangerous from the leftside hitter position, combining for 10 kills while put­ting on a strong defensive per­formance. 
Bremner had another out­standing match, skillfully set­ting an amazing 60 assists for her hitters and weaving in and out of traffic to add six total blocks, four digs and seven kills for a match-high .583 hitting 
percentage.  
"They're just  a  bunch  of  
gutsy  girls  that  refused  to  
lose," s.aid Lambert.  



1FIESTA1 BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
1. 98 Includes roundtrip air,$"'1 hotel, rental car and 
w pe-son more. See details in qcc; ::cu,<J'X.t large ad elsewhere in .'(,"' :: c:•Y.t:: this issue. Gom«Kk('(norinclurl<d 
Premier PasSports 
The Official Travel Agency of the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers 
1-800-777-3643 
. 
.. 

. ------------~---~ 
Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer page 17 
SMC hoops wins Round ball Classic championship 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
For the first time in its seven years of existence, the Saint Mary's basketball team cap­tured the championship title of the annual Roundball Classic. 
Friday night. the Belles ex­ecuted their pressure defense and had several fast breaks to quickly pull ahead of Mun­delein College. Three minutes already gained a significant lead which increased to a twenty point lead over Mun­delein with a score of 46-26. During the second half Saint Mary's put its reserve players into the game and Mundelein attempted a comeback but it was not enough as Saint Mary's advanced to the finals, winning 85-78. 
"Our young people really needed to get a chance to play Belles' head coach Marvin Wood. "All of our players got a chance to play and contrib­uted heavily to our offense with good balanced scoring." 
The championship game against Walsh· College pro­vided a more intense competi­tion for the Belles. Throughout the game both teams charged into the lead several times breaking tied scores. Neither team lead by more than a few were able to capture the cham­pionship title with a final score of 57-51. 
"I knew it was going to be a 
very physical game," said 
Wood. "We had to control the 
tempo and ours came in spirts, 
but we did have control at the 
end and that made the differ­
ence." 
Coach Wood said he was very 
pleased with their first place it," said Wood. "None of our players have any athletic assis­tance (scholarships), but they work just as hard as those who 
do.'~ 

The leading scorer for Saint Mary's was Julie Radke with 23 points. Jennifer Harte was the only other player in double fig­ures with 10. Harte also lead the team in rebounds, pulling down 10. 
into the game Saint Mary's had in that competition," said 





".,' . . 

EURAILPASS 
AT 


II PRICES! 
On January 1st. Eurallpass rates go up Buy ~r pass 1n December and ~·u still be able to start usmg rt anyt1me before July 1. 1989. Call us to: details on Eurall. student/'youthldget flights. lnt'l Student I. D. Cards. study and oork abroad programs. 
CoanciiTravel 
831 Foster 
29 E. Delaware Evanston, IL 60201 
Chicago, IL 60611 312-475-5070 
312-951-0585 
points during both halves. 
Saint Mary's missed many 
free throw opportunities which could have given them a com­fortable lead several times during the game. However, the Belles' offense · improved during the second half and they finish. Saint Mary's has been the runner-up several years in the tournament, but has never before come out on top. Wood says that in his coaching career, this season has had the best start so far. 
"I give our girls a lot of cred­


lAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
' 

• 1~ . _.. 1\. ­
,.,, I,,. . i--~ 
."\.\··~ ·. -. . /
_jt);~-->£)-····)/
..;._I~ _ '-: " ~ '/ I " ., ~ "--· , > l / ~~~--~ 
OOtl(t DIMDMlli11,0RJUDl WrTMAI'I'OMt WftODOU 


The Belles will play Tuesday at Saint Joseph's at Rensseleer. St Joseph's finished eighth in the nation last year and should be one of the better teams on Saint Mary's schedule as they gave their entire line up back this year. 
BUY 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Start practicing for the real world. 
. Using an ffiM® Personal System/2® computer to help you s~cceed·in ~ollege can also prepare you to succeed in a career. Because chances are, after you graduate, you ll be working on an ffiM computer. So the ffiM PS/2 is the perfect investment. It can h~lp you organize your notes, ~te. ~d revise, papers, produce high-quality graphics, and more. And not only IS It easy to learn and use, but if eligible, you ll get 
up to 40% off. , . Get a head start by working now on the computeq'ou ll probably be working on later. 
~.:.:=':'=® 
Personal System/2 and PS/2 are registered trademarks of IBM Corp. 
EPC is located in the Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25, Computing Center (219) 239-7477 

page 18 The Observer 
Irish hockey continues slide, drops two games to M-D 
By FRANK PASTOR . Defenseman Steve Dawson overtime period, however, Sports Writer blasted a shot by Madson from Burton took Notre Dame out of 
the top of the left faceoff circle the game to stay. Positioned to 
Who is Joe Burton and why is with 48 seconds remaining in the left of the Irish net, Burton the Notre Dame hockey team the period to put the Wolves on watched as the team's defen­so eager to see him leave South top after the first stanza. semen struggled to clear the Bend? Center Larry Pilut stretched puck out of the defensive zone, 
Burton, Michigan-Michigan-Dearborn's lead to 3-watched teammate Bobby Dearborn's senior center, 1 six minutes and 56 seconds Smith fire an uncontested shot scored 50 seconds into overtime into the second period before on goal, and finally punched the Saturday night to lift the the Irish battled back. rebound into the net to seal Wolves to a 5-4 victory over the Bob Bilton and Pat Arendt Notre Dame's eighth straight Irish and put the finishing threaded the Wolves' net one defeat. touches on a sweep of the home-minute and 23 seconds apart to "There's got to be brighter and-home series. tie the game after two periods. days ahead for Notre Dame 

He also registered a hat trick On Arendt's goal, defenseman hockey," said Schafer, who Friday night in Dearborn to Thomas Fitzgerald centered watched his team fall to 3-12-2 ~.. , ,tlead the Wolves to a 6-2 win the puck in front of the net for on the year. over Notre Dame in a physical Rob Bankoske. Bankoske's Michigan-Dearborn took ad­game marked by 22 penalties. shot was blocked by goalie vantage of Notre Dame's de­


"We are permeable on Dave Church, but Arendt fensive problems on Friday, defense," said Irish coach Ric promptly knocked in the jumping out to a 5-0 lead before The Observer I Scott McCann Schafer after Saturday's rebound for the Irish goal. the second period had come to The Notre Dame hockey team continued Its skid this weekend as game. "Any opponent with Michigan-Dearborn a close. Burton scored three It was swept by Michigan-Dearborn In a home-and-home series over quickness and speed, they're regained the lead again at 7:14 times, upping his team-leading the weekend. 
going to be able to score. We're of the third period when defen-total to 13. 
Indl"ana WI. ns NCAA soccer
having trouble scoring our-seman Thorn Madden scored a selves." power-play goal from just in-An incredible 16 penalties 
The Irish drew first blood side the blue line with 14 were handed out during the Associated Press we held them up there," he Saturday when junior wing seconds remaining in Lou second period, including game said. "I think we had them on Tim Kuehl scored a shor-Zadra's interference penalty. misconducts to Notre Dame's BLOOMINGTON --The the run. You don't have to play thanded goal just 59 seconds Notre Dame left wing Mi-Zadra and Michigan-Dear-best defense is an attacking of-defense when you're attack­into the contest. But Michigan-chael Curry then s"et the stage born's Todd Watson. For the fense, Indiana Coach Jerry ing." Dearborn struck right back, for Burton's heroics by tying game, the Irish were charged Yeagley said Sunday after his Sean Shapert's penalty-kick scoring twice in a span of 3:31 the score 4-4 with three and one with 13 penalties for a total of Hoosiers stopped Howard Uni-goal with 10:06 to play in the to take a 2-1 lead into the first half minutes left in regulation 40 minutes. The Wolves versity 1-0 for the NCAA Divi-first half gave Indiana the only intermission. time. The Irish, who continue received nine penalties for 32 sion I soccer championship. goal in the game. Indiana 
The Wolves' senior captain to fall behind early in games, minutes. "We really didn't let them midfielder had Han Roest Tim Osburn answered Kuehl's · rallied from 3-1 and 4-3 deficits • Bobby Herber finally put get into the flow of the game worked free on the right side shorthanded goal with one of before falling in the 10 minute, Notre Dame on the scoreboard until the very end," Yeagley of the penalty-area and was his own at 15:41 of the first per-sudden-death overtime period. one minute and 16 seconds into said. "We were able to hold the taken down from behind by Mi­iod. Osburn stole the puck from "That's a credit to their hard the third period, and David ball and play some great, ere-chael Williams. David Bankoske, slipped be-work," said Schafer. "They put Bankoske closed out the ative stuff. "I always put it in the same hind the Irish net and stuffed us in a position to win the scoring for the Irish with his , "We didn't feel we could give place," Shapert said of his kick the puck behind goaltender game." fourth goal of the season at them room to play. We allowed right of center about 3 feet off Lance Madson. Less than one minute into the 17:52. them to get to the midfield and the ground. 
••:.e·~~~~lWRJ-~'• :M•mw'X~>X<~~>...~·xax~~~~~>~.««4~.&-'~·~-­

ARE YOU GOING HOME 
In August of 1986 Mutile Henry Fazzie .· 
FOR CHRISTMAS? was arrested at a Security Roadblock I« 
near New Brighton Township in South . 
Africa,

;,;• • .,. ,
..... 

since then,he has been imprisoned without trial in St. Alban's prison in Port Elizabeth. The ND-SMC Amnesty International organization is sponsoring a Christmas card drive to let Mr. Fazzie know that he hasn't been forgotten. PI ease take the time to sign a card to Mr. Fazzie. Amnesty representatives will have cards available in the dining halls from 
Monday, December 5 to IFriday, December 9. 
----01111Ml--III'Gli-RD--I'@lll£6~!miHjM(';­


Monday, December 5, 1988 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 




• 
.. 

"We understand your concern, ma'am ­but this just isn't enough for us to go on. Now, you find the other half of your husband, and then we've got a case." 
9:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF card and gift sale, every day this week, Hesburgh Library Concourse. 
11 :30 a.m. Department of Economics workshop with Miguel Fadul, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Kenna Mathematics Lecture "Subgroup Postsets and Modular Representations," by Prof. Stephen D. Smith, University of Illinois, Chicago, second floor of the Math Build­ing.7 p.m. Women's Resou~ce Committee Poetry Reading by Prof. Sonia Gernes with her new book Women at Forty, Res­burgh Library Lounge. 
8 p.m. Year of Cultural Diversity presents the Qi Shu-Fang Peking Opera Troupe of Shanghai, Wahsington Hall. Tickets available at the door. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Rib Sandwich Meatloaf Turkey Breast Vegetable Marinara 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur Qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
ACROSS 31 Bassets and 55 Lowest passing . spaniels grades
1 Astrological fire sign 33Persona-57 Rejected (one welcome) 
&Map 61.Erie and 37 Highly seasoned Panama
10 Sugar source sausage 65 Above14 A Columbus 39 Sweet cherry 66 Evaluate

caravel 41 Gehrig or Groza 68 Violinmaker
15 Hindu queen of sports 70 Bill of fare 

16 Afresh 42 Leo or Gemini 71 Jacket or collar 
17 Luzon island 45 Historic period 72 Ruth of films and 
18 Eight: Comb. form 46 Londoner's 
TV 

radial 73 Finishes
19Agnomen 47 Program 74 Canvas shelter 
20 Grave; mirthless 48 Pastry 75 Astrological air 
22 Builder sign24 Repetition 50 Nobleman 

26 Grow older 52 Mrs. Truman DOWN
27 r.'laple genus 53 Priestly garment 1 P.O. alert 2 Narrow inlets ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Division word 4 And others: Abbr. 5 More rational 


Bloom County 
6 At once! 

25 Longhair7 Resin 
27 Property, e.g. 8 Poker stake 
28 North African 9 Pope's crown capital 
10 Astrologi~al 29 "King Olaf" water sign composer 
11 Med. -school 30 Operated subject 
32 Observe 12 Verne character 34 Adjust, as car 13 Water pitcher wheels 
21 Change 35 Natterjacks 23 Yuletide drink 36 SA Indians 
The Far Side 
Berke Breathed 
Berke Breathed 
Berke Breathed 
38 Roadside stopovers 

40 Flovyering shrub of the heath family 
43 Three, in Venice 
44 Young fem. socialite 49 Astrological 
earth sign 51 New 54 Soft, visorless 
cap 56 Entangle 57 Spanish Steps 
site 58 Not odd 59 Ward (off) 60 Arabian staple 62 rv!ne, in Paris 63 Essayist Elia 64 Asterisk 67 Weighty weight 59 Tempest-
teapot 

Gary Larson 


• ; ' o 0 • • I o • I I I ' I 0 o o I o I 0 I I 0 0 0 o 


Sports
page 20 
Irish tame 'Cats at Big Fou·r 
Speed, rebounding leave Phelps surprised 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS--The Notre Dame basketball team didn't waste any time in Saturday's Big Four Classic game against Kentucky. 
The Irish (2-0) were quick to prove that they could play well in big games with an 81-65 win over the Kentucky Wildcats (2­
3) in a game that saw the Irish establish the tempo early to take the first-half lead and surprise Head Coach Digger Phelps. 
"I guess I have to say that I'm as surprised as you are," Phelps said. "I just don't know how good we are. I'm surprised that we wee up 13 at the half, and I'm surprised we won in double figures." 
Phelps wasted no time in showing off his impressive freshman class, starting LaP-· honso Ellis in front of a crowd of 42,214 at the Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis. Ellis was a force inside, pulling down 16 rebounds. With 8:09 to go in the first half, Phelps had put every freshman in the game. 
"I've only played two games," Ellis said. "I think I've played pretty well, but I've got a long way to go." 
New style of play fits Ellery fine 


Win gives Irish third at Virginia tourney 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
Mter a disappointing loss to Georgetown Friday, the wo­men's basketball team sal­vaged third place in the fifth annual Investors Classic at the University of Virginia with a 85-81 overtime win Saturday af­ternoon against Arizona. 
National power Virginia won the tourney, defeating Arizona Friday and then routing the Hoyas, 104-42, in the final. The Irish lost 70-60 to Georgetown in the opening round. 
The brightest spot in the tour­ney for Notre Dame was the play of sophomore point guard 
The Irish wasted no time in establishing dominance on the boards, outrebounding the Wildcats 30-12 in the first half en route to a 53-27 margin for the game. The Irish had almost as many offensive rebounds 
(25) as Kentucky had total rebounds (27), which resulted in 24 second-chance points ior the Irish. 

LaPhonso Ellis 

"I think we did an excellent job of boxing out, we did an ex­cellent job of just going after them," Phelps said of the rebound margin. 
"I don't think we've ever had a team beaten worse on the boards than we were today," said Kentucky head coach Eddie Sutton. 
Even walk-on Tim Crawford, Karen Robinson. In the two games, Robinson tallied 44 points, hit 7-of-9 free throws and made the all-tournament team. The tourney marked only the second and third games at the point guard spot for Robinson, a transition she seems to be making smoothly. 

"She's doing a great job right now," second-year coach Muf­fet McGraw said. "She's doing the job scoring and running the break. We're very pleased with her right ·now.'' 
The Irish, who led the nation in field goal accuracy last season, shot 58 percent against the Wildcats. They shot 72 per­cent from the floor in the first the last man off the Irish bench, wasted no time once he got into the game. Listed as "?" in the game's official play-by-play sheets, Crawford was two-of­two from the free-throw line and hit a jump shot for Notre Dame's final two points. 
The Irish conserved the pre­cious moments of this win in more ways than that. Ellis leaped, grabbed an offensive rebound, positioned himself, shot, and the ball went through the net, all before he landed. Kevin Ellery, who led the balanced scoring attack with 15 points, hit three of four three­point buckets in the first half. Instead of holding the ball for the last shot of the first half, Keith Adkins launched a three­point try. 
"We have confidence in the running game," Phelps said. "We have confidence in the pressing game. Our game plan was basically to keep the press on the whole game, pound on the boards and run our transi­tion game. We did all three of those things." 
The Irish put together a 16-6 run late in the first half to take a 40-25 lead. Phelps' frequent substitutions kept the players 
see BIG FOUR, page 13 
The Observer I Mike Ury 

The Notre Dame volleyball team won Its first-ever NCAA tournament game Saturday over the Nlttany Lions of Penn State. Molly Mahone details this big win below. 



Irish roar past Nittany Lions 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Saturday night, they came in like a lion but out like a lamb. 
The 36-4 Nitiany Lions of Penn State came roaring into the JACC bearing their claws, but the Notre Dame women's volleyball team clipped those claws and sent the Lions home whimpering after beating them in four games, 15-13, 15-10, 14-16 and 15-10. 
The win catapults the Irish into the nation's Sweet Six­teen and sets up a showdown in Champaign, Ill. against fourth-ranked Illinois, which trounced Illinois State Satur­day night in three games, 15­11, 15-5 and 15-4. 
The Lions came to South Bend with more wins than any other team in the tourn­ament, but the Irish made sure they didn't leave with the one win they needed to continue tournament play. 
In the first game at the JACC, Notre Dame slowly but surely tallied points, es-

half, but still trailed 40-36 at the intermission. 
In the overtime, Notre Dame scored four quick points to as­sume a 77-73 lead. Mter the teams exchanged baskets, senior Heidi Bunek scored in­side and then Robinson hit a 10-foot bank shot to give the Irish an 81-75 lead. 
Arizona forward Amy Gamble cut the lead to 81-79 with 1: 10 remaining, but Krissi Davis responded with a hoop for the Irish and Robinson put the game away with two free throws in the closing seconds. 
McGraw said that while the scoring totals may not reflect any impact, the key to the win tablishing an 8-2 lead in the early going. But Penn State refused to lay down and die, as they scratched and clawed their way to a 10-10 tie. 
Eventually, the net play of seniors Mary Kay Waller and Zanette Bennett proved to be too much for Penn State as Notre Dame cam away with the first game. 
In game two, the Irish once again came out strong to take a 9-3lead. And again, the home team added a little suspense to the game, as they allowed Penn State to capitalize on their errors and come back to within two at 12-10. 
But the tandem towers, Waller and Bennett, behind the expert setting of fre·sh­man Julie Bremner, kept the Irish playing confidently as they claimed another game. 
It looked as though Notre Dame would keep its mo­mentum going in the third game as junior Kathy Cun­ningham got the starting nod 
see IRISH, page 15 

was the play off the bench of Diondra Toney. 
"She came in and played 15 minutes of great defense for us," McGraw said. "Our defense was not playing well." 
Bunek led the Irish in scoring with 23 points followed by Rob­inson's 22. Davis chipped in 14 points and 11 rebounds while Sara Liebscher added 12 points. Gamble led all scorers with 26 points. 
In Friday night's opener, the Irish mounted a comeback in the last three minutes. They reduced a 62-47 deficit to 64-60, but the Hoyas nailed six of 
see HOOPS, page 15 

• 
I , 
I l 
Sophomore hits four threes 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS--Kevin Ellery turned the Big Four into the Big Three. 
The Notre Dame sophomore did not attempt a three-point field goal in 23 games last year, but decided he would fit in bet­ter with the new-look Irish if he took on a new style of his own. 
"Coach (Digger) Phelps said we were going to be a running team this year, and I knew he wanted to shoot some threes," said Ellery, who led Notre Dame with 15 points, including 4-of-6 from beyond the three­point stripe, in Saturday's 81-65 victory over Kentucky in the Hoosier Dome. "I just wanted to make a contribution." 
Ellery did more than contrib­ute. The 6-5, 225-pound forward from Springfield, Ky., made sure Kentucky coach Eddie Sutton's fallen basketball power returned to his home state with a 2-3 record. 
"I'm happy for Kevin be­cause he was looking for some­thing like this, being from Ken­tucky," Phelps said. "The kids call him the 'Pit Bull.' " 
There was nothing bullish about Ellery's play against the Wildcats. It was all finesse. 
Ellery came off the bench five minutes into the game and it took him less than a minute to sink his first three-pointer, off a feed from freshman sen­sation LaPhonso-Ellis. 
Ellery hit two more three­pomters in the first half and led 
see ELLERY, page 13 



