Take a chill pill
IACCENT: Etc. : weekend edition 
Clear and cool today. High In the low 50s, low in the mid 30s. 30 per,cent chance of rain

IVIEWPOINT: All male world not reality Thursday. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 115 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
House agrees to grant 


Contra aid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House negotiators 
reached "agreement in principle" late 
Tuesday on a $50 million package of 
humanitarian aid for Nicaragua's Con­
tra rebels and for children injured in 
that country's civil war. 
As part of the deal, Speaker Jim 
Wright would agree to give "fair" con­
sideration to any future request Presi­
dent Reagan might make for new mil­
itary aid for the rebels if the peace 
process should break down, said Rep. 
David Bonior, D-Mich. 
The package was worked out in a negotiating session between Wright and House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill., and final details were to be ap­proved by both sides at a meeting Wed­nesday morning. 
The Rules Committee late Tuesday approved ground rules for bringing the package to the floor on Wednesday and approval by a bipartisan majority was expected, if no further snags developed. 
"I think we have an agreement in principle," said Rep. Dick Cheney, R­Wyo. 
The tentative agreement would send about $2.7 million monthly in food, clothing, medicine and shelter to the rebels over the next six months. Com-

package 

munications gear and other expenses 
would push the total six-month rebel 
aid package to $20 million, said Bonior 
leader of a Democratic task force on 
the Contra issue. 

An identical amount would go into a 
new program to care for children in­
jured in the seven-year civil war, he 
said. 

It also would provide $10 million to finance a verification commission to ensure adherence to a cease-fire worked out last week between the Con­tras and the leftist Managua govern­ment. Not included in the $50 million total is additional money to transport the aid. 
The money would be administered by the State Department's Agency for In­ternational Development, Bonior said. 
In addition, Wright, D-Texas, would write a letter to Reagan and Michel as­suring the president of a chance to sub­mit a proposal for new military aid if the peace process becomes derailed. 
The Speaker would promise "fair" treatment of such a package, but would retain control over the precise timing of any final vote and the rules under which the package would be consid­ered, Bonior said. 
Dole quits race for GOP nomination 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Republican Bob Dole ended his campaign for president Tuesday, saying he was "bloodied but unbowed" by the series of bruising pri­mary losses that finished his can­didacy. 
Dole bowed out before a supportive audience of Senate and House col­leagues and offered congratulations to George Bush, the all-but-anointed GOP nominee. · "My friends know that I am a fighter; 
I don't fike to Jose," the Senate Repub­
lican leader said. "I have been beaten 
before, and no doubt will be again. But 
I have never been defeated and never 
will be." 
Dole, the Kansas senator, had sig­
naled for days that he was ready to bow 
to the inevitable. 
"One thing you learn how to do pretty well in our business is to count," he said in his withdrawal announcement. "You come to trust your instincts to tell you when it's over, and in my heart I know the time is now. . .. 
"So I return to the Senate as the Re­publican leader . . . ready to do all I can to elect Republicans in November and doing all I can for our nominee, George Bush." 
His withdrawal left only Pat Robertson stubbornly hanging in as Bush's challenger for the Republican presidential nomination. But Robertson has signaled he is a can­didate in name only and acknowledged Bush's victory. 
Dole made his exit before an audi­ence jammed into the Senate Caucus Room, a historic room where John F. Kennedy launched his presidential bid and site of the Senate Watergate hearings 15 years ago and the Iran­Contra hearings a year ago. 
Dole's strategy tor wmmng the White House was based primarily on winning the first two contests, and when he fell short in New Hampshire his candidacy collapsed. 
Dole couldn't turn the race around in Illinois and was effectively out of the running. 
Happy Easter 

This Is the last Issue of The Observer before Easter Break. The Observer will 
resume publication on Wednesday, April 6•.. hope everyone has a Easter and safe travels. 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Researchers may be no closer to the answer of what causes aging after a three-day symposium on diet and aging, but have been provided a wealth of information that will help future ex­periments, participants in the confer­ence said Tuesday. 
"Even though we don't know the ab­solute answers yet, what we have done here is exchange an awful lot of in­formation.. .from which people can work and which will be an inspiration and a source of material for years to come," said Toni Kingsley, assisstant professor of The South Bend Center for Medical Education and Lobund Lab. 
The conference reported the findings of the effect of reduced caloric intake in rats studied at Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory. Preliminary results found rats on the reduced diet lived longer 
and had fewer diseases associated with aging. Studies show that diet restriction is one factor to a longer lifespan, Dr. Cal­
vin  Lang,  a  biochemist  at  the  Uni­ 
veristy of Louisville, said.  
The  Lobund  experiment  has  also  

found a link between restricted diet and the chemical glutathione, a substance found in all body cells that repairs cells and tissue, Lang added. 
Rats on the restricted diet had higher levels of the chemical than those not on the diet, he said. 
In another study, he explained, amounts of glutathione were injected into old mosquitos. The results found the mosquitos lived longer and resisted disease more, he said. 
"If that substance (glutathione) decreases in amount, the organism will be at risk...if you reduce it far enough, 
see LOBUND, page 5 


-~-----,--------­

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, March 30, 1988 
In Brief 
President Reagan plans to nominate Ra~dall Rader, an aide to Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-utah, as a Judge of the 
U.S. Claims Court, the White House announced Tuesday. If confirmed by the Senate, Rader will succeed Robe~t Seto. 
Since 1987, Rader has been chief counsel and staff direc­tor for the minority side of the Senate Judiciary subcom­mittee on patents, copyrights and trademarks, and counsel to Hatch. 
Of Interest 
"Eclipse of Reason" by Dr. Berna~d Nathan~on ~s a graphic film of a third trimester abortion. The film 1s 28 minutes long and will be shown tonight from 7:30 to 
8:30 in the Haggar Game Room at Saint Mary's. Discus­sion will follow. -The Observer 
Food Share volunteers must attend a short meeting today at either 3:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse or 8 p.m. in the front lobby of LaFortune Student Center. If you cannot attend the meeting call Jim at 2641 and leave your name and number. -The Observer 
A paneldiscussionentitled' 'Making Family: Lesbian and Gay Lives" will be held tonight from 7:30 to 9 at t~e YWCA. The event is sponsored by N.O.W. For more m­formation contact Ellyn at 289-2126. -The Observer 
Art submissions for the Spring 1988 Juggler issue will be returned tomorrow from noon to 1 p.m. Pick up your art work in the Juggler Office on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center. -The Observer 
Any comedians, M.C.'s or people with stupid human tricks who wish to perform at the Great Escape of '88 on April15 should contact Dave at 1861 or Pete at 1422. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee Tournament sign-ups will be April6 at 7 p.m. in the An Tostal office in 307 LaFortune. Teams must have 10 members and there is a 20 team limit. -The Observer 
Project MASS COMM is sponsoring the first of three scheduled CenterStage events on Saturday, April 2 at 7 p.m. in Recital Hall at the South Bend Century Cent~r. CenterStage provides local residents with an opportun~ty to gain valuable experience in preparing for the entertam­ment industry and the best acts will appear on Project MASS COMM's television show, Video Expressions, which airs on Heritage Cable channel 31. Individuals interested in auditioning for the May 6 or June 3 CenterStage events should call Ken Nelson at 239-5669. -The Observer 
JPWChairpersonapplicationsmustbesubmitted to the Office of Student Activities today. Applications can be picked up at the Office of Student Activities in 315 LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Mock Convention '88 now has available a copy of the platform and rules. Delegates can read both in the Reserve Room of the Hesburgh Library. If there are any questions about the platform, call Michelle ~t 4172. Those with questions about the rules should call Mtchael at 1469. 
-The Observer 
American Chemical Society elections will be held Tuesday April 5. Meet at the entrance to the Radiation Laborat~ry at 7 p.m. A tour of the Radiation Lab will follow the elections and a short meeting. -The Observer 
1989 Sophomore Literary Festival Committee applications are available in the S.U.B. office. Interested persons please apply by Wed. April6. Questions call Mike Evces at 1537. -The Observer 

Design Editor ---------------------Rob Luxem Viewpoint Copy Editor -----Julie Collinge Design Assistant ..... _... Annette Rowland Viewpoint Layout ........ -----Laura Manzi Typesetters ............. _____ Paul Brauweiler Accent Copy Editor . ....... Susan Buckley 
....................... ---··---------------Andy Schlidt Accent Layout -----------Kathy Gliwa News Editor........................ Liz Panzica Typist---------..................... Wendy Burek Copy Editor-------------------------Erin Lynch ND Day Editor --------------Carrie McCaw Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko Photographer .................. Rob Regovich 
De a..n. (USPS S99 2-<4000) is published Monday throuab Friday except durin& exam &Dd vacation periods. ne Obeener is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame &Dd Saint Mary's Colleae. Subacriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year (S2S per ~)-bl! writiq ne Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, Indiana 46SS6. 
ne oa.ner is • member or ne .u.odllled ....... All reproduction riabts are raerved. 
Easter isn't just chocolate bunnies 
The majority of the Notre Dame community 
Alison

hails Easter break as a much needed long weekend. The promise of a few days away with­
Cocks

out the pressures of tomorrow's quiz or the prospect of another all-nighter seems like Assistant }--:,.
heaven to those who struggle through this "
Production Manager

week's battery of tests. 
Easter holds no such promise for me, as I am a member of the unfortunate minority who will find themselves stranded in South Bend over the holiday. Without the prospect of Mom's cooking or a few days in the sun to think about, I have been able to reflect upon the Easter season in a different way. 
The way we celebrate Easter must have all twelve of the apostles turning in their respective graves. I think that if they could have foreseen the effect that Hallmark would have on the death of their Messiah, they might have protested it a little more strongly. 
The period of Lent is one prime example. It is intended to represent Christ's forty days of fasting; hence the tradition of "giving up for Lent." Friends of mine have managed to stop swearing, stealing, and smoking for the past five weeks, and a few brave souls have even given up drinking. All of this is admirable, ex-
MLB 
cept that this is merely sacrificing something -----------------......J
that we're not supposed to be doing in the first place. The original tradition of fasting and Jesus spent his day sacrificing himself so that abstinence encompassed a little more than we can goof off and still make it to Heaven. 
having to spend six weeks as a designated Hallmark and Cadbury's have succeeded in driver or thinking of something to scream be­commercializing Easter Sunday itself to such sides an expletive when the computer eats your an extent that Christ now shares the top spot 
twenty page paper. with a rabbit. Young children across the nation 
Not only that, if I went out tomorrow and told sit still for the obligatory hour-and-a-half long an average man on the street that the Lord had Mass so that they can get to the real purposedecided that his last supper would be on the of the day: pulling colored, hard boiled eggsfollowing Saturday night, I would expect him out of the furniture and discovering what the to make a reservation for himself and twelve Easter Bunny left in their baskets. The only of his friends at a ritzy restaurant downtown further mention of God occurs when women to commemorate the occasion. Rather than thank Him because they can now wear white break bread and drink wine quietly with his shoes with their summer clothes. followers, he would be more inclined to order A thousand years ago, Christians were not the prime rib, crack open a few extra bottles singing alleluia because Lent was finally over of champagne, and sit back and enjoy the and there was a six-pack waiting in the fridge, cabaret. The solemnity of the occasion would but in celebration of the fact that due to a per­be forgotten after a few cocktails. sonal sacrifice we now have a second chance 
Good Friday is usually spent rejoicing, not at salvation. because of its religious significance, but be­Somewhere along the line, right about when cause we all get the day off from school and the first chocolate bunny hit the first store win­can spend it sleeping in, catching up on dow, we managed to take yet another religious "General Hospital," and going to the mall. event and turn it into a major commercial Since it's not a holy day of obligation, we are holiday. Maybe sometime we should also re­not forced to spend time thinking that while we member that when Jesus told his disciples to relax and forget about responsibility, two shake the sand from their shoes, he wasn't thousand years ago, Jesus was going through a saying it because they were on vacation in Fort little more than a hard day at the office. While Lauderdale with a pina colada in one hand and we take time to enjoy ourselves, we forget that a bottle of baby oil in the other. 
-················-----···························-·······-·····-II Observer classifieds will accepted
be from

Happy Birthday 
Today_ is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 

II 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way ' Laura, we do expect to see you dancing 
LaFortune. 

on pool tables ton1ght. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
*Haven't found a job yet? *Want to take a year off before Law School, Med School or Grad School? · 
* Interested in a career in law? 

A Chicago litigation firm specializing in the medical and legal aspects of asbestos litigation will be interviewing all interested candidates for a legal I medical internship: 
April 11 at Saint Mary's College April 12 at Notre Dame 

Please sign up for an interview with your Career and Placement Center or send letter or resume to: 
Terrence M. Johnson, Esq. The Monadnock Building 53 West Jackson, Suite 1650 Chicago, IL 60604 
1-312-922-4022 

Wednesday, March 30, 1988 The Observer page 3 
HPC unanimously accepts changes 
By DAN MURPHY down" by the senate, said Sal­
Staff Reporter mon. 
A new constitution for the un­In other news, HPC Co­dergraduate student body pro­Chairman Bob Daley reminded posed by the Student Senate the hall presidents to submit received unanimous accep­applications for the Sowder tance from the Hall President's Award. The award is annually Council at last night's HPC bestowed upon a dorm based meeting. on "what it has done to improve 
"From my understanding itself both in the eyes of the 
the changes all look to be good community, service-wise and 
changes," said Grace Hall socially,'' said Daley. 
president Tom Doyle, "mostly 
they are cosmetic and it just • The HPC will also present a 
sort of consolidates things un-Rector Award to a deserving 
der one name." rector chosen from written 
nominations submitted by the 
Recapping Student Senate hall presidents. An HPC com­news, HPC Co-Chairman Tim mittee will select the winners, Salmon told the HPC about the and their decisions "should be senate's decision to call for based totally on merit," said total University divestment Daley. from South Africa. The senate passed the resolution Monday. Mally newly-elected hall A proposal by the Anti­presidents attended last night's Apartheid Network asking sen­meeting and will officially as­ate support for a Coca-Cola sume the duties of hall presi­products boycott was "shut dent on April 1. 
Yale professor speaks on Ukrainian church 
ByPATRICK O'CONNOR faithful there and throughout ly, it was declared illegal by Catholic church and has about he said. 
Staff Reporter the world celebrate the success the Soviets in 1946 because it 250,000 members in the United Furthermore, Galadza, who 
of the "Ukrainian experiment" hindered the Russification of States, said Reverend Peter is married, stressed that in the 
"A Church Between East and despite its turbulent history of the territory. Galadza of the St. Michael's Ukrainian Church, "celibacy is West: The Millennium of the oppressions and being split be­In addition to the Soviet op­Ukrainian Byzantine Catholic optional." These circum­Ukrainian Experiment" was tween east and west, said pression, ''the problem of being church in Mishawaka. stances, he said, are the con­the topic of a lecture by Yale Jaroslav. eastern in our identity but sistent sources of unrest for Uk­
Professor Jaroslav Pelikan, united with the west," poses While "the faiths are identi­rmman Catholics in the Tuesday at the Hesburgh Since the incipience of Chris­one of the greatest threats to cal, the expression of the faiths Western Hemisphere because Memorial Library. tianity in Ukraine (then continuity of the Ukrainian is different," said Galadza. The of the tendancy of western re­
Kievan-Rus) in 988, the church church today, said Pelikan. Ukrainian rite is done. in the ligious devotional practices to 
After a thousand years of there has been threatened The Ukranian Catholic eastern Byzantine liturgy as overwhelm those indigenous to Christianity in Ukraine, the numerous times. Most recent-Church is part of the Roman opposed to the Roman liturgy, the eastern church. 

ATTENTION JUNIORS-19aasr.c1ass Trip 
Your first vote determined an 8 day trip and these are our final options. Along with a destination we also need an estimate of the number of seniors planning to attend. Please read and return by Thursday, April 7. 
CARNIVALE CRUISE Mon, October 17-23 (Sun.), 1988 $684 per person Quad occupancy 
Monday Miami Tuesday Freeport VVednesday Nassau Thursday Fun Day at Sea Friday Miami Fri-Sun Miami Fontainebleu Hilton 
* 8 meals per day included on cruise Monday through Friday *Special Events: Captain's Party, Welcome Aboard Party, Gala Captain's Dinner 
NASSAU Sheraton British Colonial $498 per person Quad occupancy Sun, October 16-23 (Sun.), 1988 
*Lush Tropical 8 acre ocean front resort, including pool, lighted tennis courts, restaurants, and lounge. 
____I would only go on Nassau trip 
----1 would only go on Carnivale Cruise 
____I would go on either; no preference 
MUST BE RETURNED BY APRIL 7 AT 5 PM 
Return to Student Activities Office at 315 LaFortune or 103 Haggar. 


--~ ~----"~----------­

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
~~lf­
~IJII'~. [E~~ct~on °88 
Foreign Policy Debate Wednesday April6, 1988 Library Auditorium 7p.m. 
Guest Panelists: 

Professor John Gilligan  Director of Institute for  
International Peace Studies  
Professor Michael Francis  Notre Dame Government  
Department  

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111ADWORKS11 
........-~--~------. 
page 4 
Two top as legal 
Associated Press· 
WASHINGTON In a move that reportedly shocked Attor­ney General Edwin Meese III, the Justice Department's No.2 official and the head of the de­partment's criminal division abruptly resigned Tuesday amid a nearly year-old cri­minal investigation of Meese. 
Deputy Attorney General Ar­nold Burns said in a letter to President Reagan that, "Un­fortunately, I have regretfully concluded that I must return to private life at this time." He did not elaborate. 
William Weld, who as an as­sistant attorney general over­sees all federal criminal inves­tigations, resigned effective at the close of the business day Tuesday, despite a personal plea from other department of­ficials that he remain on for several weeks. 
Two of Burns' aides and two of Weld's aides also quit simul­taneously. 
The decision by Burns and Weld, who refused to say why they are resigning or to discuss their plans, leaves a gaping hole in the leadership of the Jus­tice Department. 
Meese's continuing legal problems have "everything to do with" why the two men quit, said a department source 
Wednesday, March 30, 1988

The Observer" 
Meese aides quit problems continue 
familiar with the reasons for the resignations who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The unexpected resignations were the result of the fact that "major things aren't getting done at the Justice Depart­ment, nothing's moving be­cause Meese is under this cloud," said another informed department source. 
Meese first learned the two would step down when Burns and Weld walked into the attor­ney general's office at 8 a.m. Tuesday and informed him of the decision. 
The two men conveyed to 
"I compared Paralegal propamsand chose Roosevelt' 
• Laraest ABA·app~ program In Wlnols 
• 
Effective employment assistance-over 500 employers have hired Roosevelt graduates 

• 
Choice oftime and location-Day and evening classes • Loop • Arlington Heights • oakbrook 

• 
Diversified level curriculum-spedalize in Utigation; Corporations; Estates, Trusts and Wills; Real Estate; Employee Benefits or Generalist 

• 
IlliNOIS STATE GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS 

• 
RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER 3 

• 
Contact your placement office for details 


For your copy of the Lawyer's Assistant Catalogue and an invitation to the neJ:t information session in your area, 
writeorcaU: 3U-341-3882 
---------------------------------------------------Aii 
The ~···Assistant f'rosram In cooperation with 1be Nation.I.:.Cnter for Paralegal Training -..hUIIMnity 430 S. Micbipa Avo. 
N~•------------­
• 
Olicqo IL 60605 Add=----------­City _____State ___Zip-­
-~ 
Home Phone Business Phone 


Meese the sentiment that "it's nothing against you personally, Ed," but "we want to go home," said one department source familiar with the discus­sion. Several department sources characterized Meese 
as "absolutely shocked" by the decision. 
Meese's chief spokesman, Terry Eastland, said the attor­ney general "expressed ap­preciation for the job these two men have done" and "wished them well in their future en­deavors." Both had served in their current jobs since Oct. 17, 1986. 
Israelis open fire wound eight Arabs 
Associated Press protesters reported wounded 
was a 13-year-old girl. 
RAMALLAH, occupied West In Ramallah, small children Bank -Israel's army isolated tossed rocks at each other in the occupied territories Tues-the streets. They called the day, but Palestinians threw game "Jews and Arabs." gasoline bombs at patrolling Hundreds of protesters have soldiers and the Israelis opened been wounded since riots began fire and wounded eight of the Dec. 8 in the West Bank and demonstrators. Gaza, which Israel captured 
The unprecedented crack-from Jordan and Egypt in the down on the 1.5 million Arabs 1967 Middle East War. The in the occupied West Bank and death toll stands at 119 Pales­Gaza Strip was aimed at hal-tinians and one Israeli soldier ting four ~onths of unrest and according to U.N. figures. ' at preventmg mass demonstra-• Defense Minister Yitzhak tions by Palestinians on Wed-Rabin and Lt. Gen. Dan Shom­nesday's 12th anniversa~y of ron, Israel's military chief of Land Day, when Israeli sol-staff threatened for the first ~iers killed s~x A~abs protest-time' Tuesday to close the ter­mg lan? confi.scatwn. ritories for an extended period. 
Foreign relief workers were "For now the decision to barred from entering the occu-close the a;eas is for three pied lands .. ~housands of police days," Rabin said on Israel ~ere mobilized Tuesd~y eve-radio. "But I've always said we nmg to.enforce curfews m Arab have to adjust our measures to towns m Israel. confront every eventuality." 
Arabs reported that Closing the occupied lands is demons~rators took to the intended to quell the violence street~ m some. areas and that by imposing collective punish­Israeli troops fired at the cur-ment on Palestinians and to few violators. ~he eig~t Arabs keep out journalists, whose were wounded m the VIllage of reports the Israelis claim feed Zaita, 40 miles northwest of the rebellion. Jerusalem, the army and the Particularly harsh restric­Palestine Press Service re-tions have been put on the Gaza ported. Strip. The rebellion began 
Palestinians in the ter-there and the 6-mile-long ritories threw rocks and Mediterranean coastal area is gasoline bombs. Among the easier to isolate. 

~ -~ 
--~ 

Wednesday, March 30, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
Panama unfazed by violence 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan's chief spokesman ex­pressed outrage today at vio­lence against anti-government marchers in Panama and said "there are limits to our pa­tience." 
While restating that it has been U.S. policy not to inter­vene militarily, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater also said, "It has always been a principle that we will protect American citizens as best we can." 
"We are all angry at this latest demonstration, at people being beaten and threatened," Fitzwater said. 
"I just want to express the outrage of all of us about this incident," Fitzwater said. 
He  said  the  regime  of  
Panamanian  strongman  
Manuel  Antonio  Noriega  "is  

showing its true colors. It is desperate and afraid of its own people and the free press." 
"The people of Panama as well as the leaders arrested yesterday have demonstrated their determination to take on the Noriega regime, despite these heavy-handed efforts at intimidation," Fitzwater said. 
Swaggart to be rehabilitated with church supervision 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFI.ti.':LD, Mo. People approved by the church would supervise Swaggart's rehabilitation, the Rev. G. Raymond Carlson, general superintendent of the church, said at a news conference. He provided no other details of the sanctions. 
The rehabilitation period would begin when Swaggart agreed to the terms in writing. He has 30 days to respond. 
Carlson said he had notified Swaggart of the decision. 
"He thanked me," Carlson said. "He expressed thanks, and I had prayer with him over the telephone." 
A member of the General Presbytery, H. Maurice Led­nicky, said most of the discus­sion in the two-day meeting of the group was over the power of the 13-member Executive Presbytery to impose punish­ment in the case. 
The Louisiana District had imposed a three-month suspen­sion from the pulpit for Swag­gart and had refused to reconsider it on request of the Executive Presbytery, which sought a stiffer penalty. The ex­ecutive board noted that every other Assemblies of God mini­ster who has confessed to moral failure has been barred from the pulpit for at least a year, officials said. 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad.. uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challe~ges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medrcal center can provide. 
Spring grarJuates apply now for positio~s available 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractrve benefit 
package. 

Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose 
growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services, 
Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street, 
Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist HosR_it_al_ 
A MAYO H1UNDATION HOSI'ITAl. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

"The thousands of Panamanians who braved tear gas, skin irritant sprays and birdshot yesterday show that intimidation will not solve Norieg1,t's problems." 
The spokesman said the United States continued to rec­'bmmend that American citizens defer travel to Panama, and that those who do go there avoid political gather­ings and exercise caution. 
"We continue to consider op­tions for dealing with the prob­lem," he said. 
Security Beat 
Monday, March 28 
I:35 p.m.-A Lyons Hall resident reported that her leather wallet was stolen from her room sometime between 10 p.m. on March 22 and 9:30p.m. on March 24. Her loss is estimated at $40. 
3:30 
p.m.-A resident of Breen­Phillips Hall reported that the roof of her convertible was slashed while parked in the D2 lot. The incident occured between 9 p.m. on March 26 and 7 a.m. on March 28. Damage is estimated at $2000. 

3:30 
p.m.-A Breen-Phillips student reported that she lost her pearl necklace somewhere between Breen-Phillips Hall and the Alumni/Senior Club. This occured between midnight and 2 a.m. 


on March 27. Her loss is eStimated at $200. 
Tuesday, March 29 
2:04 a.m.-While patroling the lots near the Alumni/Senior Club, Notre Dame Security officers noticed five suspicious persons walking through the lots. The suspects attempted to leave campus as the officers confronted them. Two suspects were apprehended and brought to the Security Office for questioning. Both were later released. 
6:00 a.m.-Three Notre Dame students were apprehended in an attempt to hide a statue of Ronald MacDonald, which they had stolen earlier, in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The statue was confrscated 


Camp-aigning contemporaries 


Paul Simon greets fellow Democratic presidential Madison soil. Both were campaigning in Wisconsin, hopeful Jesse Jackson as he steps from a jet onto which holds its primary April 5. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
$ $ 
INFORMING A

WHO WILL BE TICKET FOR NEXT YEAR'S NEXT YEAR'S PRESIDENT? 
OFFICERS CALLIF YOU ARE PERRY AT #1475 INTERESTED 

OR PAT AT#1473 BEFORE BREAK 

$ 
FINANCE CLUB $ 
THE 
RIVERSIDE 
EXECUTIVE 


16iiA Riverside Drive • South Bend, Indiana Phone 219-233-2212 
Lobund 
continued from page 1 
the organism will die," Lang 
said. 
Nutritional intake also mod­ulates many of the activities in the gastrointestinal tract, Dr. Peter Holt, a Columbia Univer­sity gastroenterologist, said. 
Altering the amounts of nutrients taken in will also al­ter how the intestine grows and works, Holt said. 
Many researchers want to work on how diet affects aging, but high costs prevent some ex­periments, Professor David Snyder of the Lobund Labora­tory said. 
"We have to hand-feed our rats everyday," Snyder ex­plained, adding "you have to grow rats from six weeks on to 30 months, two-and-a-half to three years, to get them to old age. You lose a lot of them along the way. It's a tough proj­ect." 
Many individual laboratories also don't want to do that type of work, he noted. 
Because of those reasons, Lobund has received many re­quests for tissue samples from the experiment, Snyder said. 
"They want to do dietary restriction research because they want to get at the problem of aging.. .it is the one thing we know of that can alter the aging process," he said. 
IAMERICAN 
f~. 

.....------------~------~---· 
page 6 The Observer 

The Observer I Rob Regovich
Not a pretty site 
The future front yard of the new residence halls looks students. Spring showers have turned the area into more like a toxic waste dump than home for incoming a giant puddle suitable for AnTostal mud volleyball. 
Humor no joke, national meeting investigates the logic of laughs 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Seventh National Conference On Humor is no joke, Victor Raskin, a Purdue University professor coordinating this weekend's activities, said Tuesday. · 
He concedes it may be more academic than knee-slapping. "To tell you the truth, it may be excruciatingly boring," Raskin said. 
Raskin said in a recent uni­versity news release, "In the last decade, humor has been in­creasingly recognized as an es­sential and universal human facility and as such, has be­come the subject of high­powered and widely interdis­ciplinary research.'' 
The conference, Friday through Sunday on Purdue's West Lafayette campus, will be about 80 percent academic, "Raskin said. The last six such conferences were held at phenomenon has been very Arizona State University -poorly explored both academi­always on April Fool's Day. cally and socially," he said. 
"During the breaks, there Shaun Hughes, an associate may be a lot of laughter," says professor of English, is helping Raskin, a professor of English. Raskin coordinate. "Then on Sunday night, there is a public joke-telling contest. r --------1 
They can tell jokes, juggle, . Alii.ed ' 
anything to elicit laughter. The f f winner gets a purse of maybe , Sh• • 
$60 or something. ' 1pp10g I 
"But research-wise, the con-f . ~ 1 ference is pretty high-powered. aLet us pack and ship youo "Psychologists want to know •electronic equipment,f why _we ~ppreciB:te h_umor," "fstereo etc. direct to yowi
Raskm said. "SociOlogists are ' ., interested in humor's role in so-fhome by UPS -Emery. 1 
ciety. Anthropol?gists want to f 219-277-7616 & 
know why what IS funny to one • ' society is not funny to an-I Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fn t other" 'U · · 
Ac~demics from colleges ' mversJty Commonst a~d universit_ies na~ionwide f SR 23 & Hickory f ~ill attend, s~Id R~skm, a na-' Western Union ' 
bve ofthe Soviet Umon who has ' ' been at Purdue for 10 years. L Available & "Humor as a complex human· --------! 
~----­
Wednesday, March 30, 1988 
U.S. , Soviet doctors hold cancer summit 
Associated Press 
BETHESDA, Md. Soviet doctors participating in an in­ternational teleconference said Tuesday they routinely conceal the truth from patients diagnosed as having cancer and they questioned the Amer­ican practice of fully informing patients of a tumorous condi­tion. 
"It's hardly a good idea to tell a patient directly that he has a capcer," said Dr. Nikolai N apalkov, president of the 
U.S.S.R. Oncological Society and a leading cancer re­searcher in the Soviet Union. "Only in rare cases, when the patient refuses treatment, does the doctor have the obligation to tell the patient." 
American doctors taking part in the conference strongly disagreed. 
"The sense of trust that exists between a doctor and pa­tient is very important,'' said Dr. Steven Rosenberg, chief of surgery at the National Cancer Institute. "It's impossible for me to imagine giving quality care without telling the patient the full story." 
The exchange came during a two-hour conference which used a satellite to link re­searchers at the National In­stitutes of Health near Wash­ington with Soviet experts at a studio in Moscow. 
The conference, called "The Cancer Summit,'' included pre­recorded comments from Pres­ident and Mrs. Reagan, both of whom have been treated for cancer, and the reading of a statement by Soviet General Secretary Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
Mrs. Reagan, who has under­gone surgery for breast cancer, said that "cancer is bigger than any one country; it is a prob­lem of all mankind." 
The first lady said that she had "always thought cancer would strike someone else, an­other family." But, she said, both she and her husband developed cancers that were surgically removed. 
FOREIGN GRADUATE STUDENTS 
OPPORTUNITIES TO EARN EXTRA INCOME 
American Companies need your skills and know-how in dealing with foreign marketing strategies, import/export regulations, etc. 
Our clients have full and part-time consulting positions for University graduates with foreign backgrounds who are willing to help encourage American trade and investment efforts back home. 
If interested in helping America build new trade bridges, send your updated resume to : 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Executive Search Division P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 

Twelve of 'the brigh'tes't minds in 'the coun'try had 'the same idea las't summer.  NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION '88 2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, illinois 60208 Please send my free copy of the Summer Session '88 catalog with financial aid and registration information. (Available mid~March) Name School Address City State ZIP Home Address City State ZIP Some, aome summertime... Send the coupon or calll-800-FINDS~NU (Inside illinois call312/49Hll4) ss 1  

Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 30, 1988 page 7 
Allowing women at l P.O. Box a ] 
N D refIeCtS reaII•ty 
While reading the Feb. 25 issue of The Observer, I came across a letter to the editor which nearly made me choke on my meatless lunch. 
Robyn Simmons 
guest column 

The letter was in response to an ear­lier letter which objected to Ronald Reagan connecting himself with Notre Dame just because he portrayed George Gipp in "Knute Rockne: All­American." I had already obtained my ticket to see the president regardless of the earlier letter. 
What really captured my attention was the way that the responsorialletter justified Reagan's appearance. The au­thor claimed that the writer of the pre­vious letter had room to talk about ex­cluding Reagan from the Notre Dame tradition, because the University's tradition was built by men, not women. 
Wait, it gets better. 
The author also suggested that Notre Dame men displayed outstanding generousity by allowing women into that tradition. My initial response to this letter is not fit to print, but after I settled down I realized that his attitude, however infantile, might be shared by some other Notre Dame men. 
That fact is evident if one tries study­ing on the tenth floor of the library. A quick inspection of the carrels will reveal an abundance of obscene com­plaints about Notre Dame women, scrawled out in penmanship just slightly above the third grade level. 
Earlier this semester, another Notre Dame male ran a series of personal ads explaining "Why beer is better than wo­men." Obviously these individuals believe that Notre Dame would be a better place without women. 
So, for the sake of the argument, let us remove all of the women from Notre Dame. And all of Saint Mary's College. Sorry guys, but since Saint Mary's was chartered after Notre Dame it must be considered another example of the noble genero 
Now imagine what life at Notre Dame would be like. It would be a regular party. All of the guys would get to­gether, buy a few cases of beer and throw a party where they would get to meet--more guys. There they would get 
Doonesbury 
to participate in traditional male bon­
ding. 

The men could talk about "guy" 
things, compare beer bellies, stay out 
late and never have to worry about 
parietals. SYRs would be a manly event 
too. The DJ would play "traditional" 
selections and watch all of the men 
dance. 

And then there's football, one of the 
most prominent traditions at Notre 
Dame. In the fall, the men could cheer 
on the Fighting Irish and celebrate 
their victory. In the winter, they could 
watch videotapes of last season's 
games and cheer on the Fighting Irish 
and celebrate their victory--or watch 
basketball. 

Obviously this sounds like an envi­able existence. Unfortunately, life at traditional Notre Dame would come to an end at commencement, and all of the men who were so adamant about keeping women out of the Notre Dame tradition would have a rude awakening­-the real world. 
All of a sudden, they would be catapulted into the 1980s. Women make up one half of the population, and a lot of them are working. Women are not only competing with men for jobs, but they are employers as well. These wo­men want careers, and they know that a college education is necessary to achieve that goal. 
That means that these women are on the same intellectual level as men. What a frightening experience it would be for these traditional men to discover that women are their equals in the real world of the 1980s. 
Notre Dame might have originated as a university for men, but that doesn't mean that the school couldn't change with the times. By opening its doors to women in 1972, the Univeristy brought its students one step closer to life after commencement. The male-dominated University might have been traditional, but artificial. Men and women have to work together and maintain mutual respect in the real world. 
By the way, translated from French, Notre Dame means "Our Lady," and one only needs to look up at the Golden Dome to see that Our Lady stands high above everything and everyone else in this University. 
Robyn Simmons is a freshman enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 
FOR. THOSE Of' Y(}(J fARO /JON'T 
MY &MPLOYCR.'3 HAV/3. A VERY 
HIGH R/36AR/) FOR TH8 MAN
KNOW M/3, MY NAM/3 6 ft4VOC, 
ANP I IAJORI< FOR A NORTH 
YOU HONOR WNIGHT, ANDAR& 
a.F<TAINL-Y54WE3Nf3.l? 7lJSl£
fAM&RIOW INT/3L..U68NC& 
• AGeNCY UIHICH 5HAU GO 
HIMI£AV8 ""­
lH/3 F/&IJ).
/ NAM/3l&SS. 

'------------------b-e-en--p-r_a_c_t-ic_e_d__m_a_i_n_Iy--i-n--Ia_b_o.Jr 
Screening process ~~~f:.les and national liberation move-
Consumers' boycotts have been used often to express distaste for a compa­ny's or government's policy. The boycott has historical significance in the United States. One of the major protests against taxation without rep­re!entation made by the colonists was an economic boycott against tea. Most of us are familiar with the successful end of colonization which eventually followed. 
The Civil Rights movement became a public national issue on Dec. 1, 1955, when Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat, an action which led to the 55 week boycott of buses in Montgomery, Alabama. That boycott succeeded in repealling racial segregation on buses on Dec. 2, 1956. 
As a teenageer I worked to promote the Nestle Boycott which successfully convinced Nestle to change its market­ing practices for infant formula. In the 1960s, '70s, and '80s, Chavez and the United Farm Workers have utilized boycotts of grapes and other agricul­tural products to raise economic and public pressure for labor reforms. 
In South Africa the boycott of goods and services has been and continues to be an important part of the resistance movement. Rent boycotts in urban areas have been useful for undermining the administration of apartheid. 
The boycott of Coke is not an end in itself, it is merely a means for express­ing distaste with apartheid and with the persistence with which Coca-Cola and its subsidiaries continue to do business with the apartheid regime in South Africa. A boycott requires participation and personal investment; it is not an entity without its human component. Thus how can you say a boycott won't work if it hasn't even been tried? 
Lynne Woehrle Off-campus March 22, 1988 
The Observer retains the right to edit all let­ters and columns sub­mitted for print. Please note the more concise the letter, the more likely its chances of reaching print. 
Quote of the Day 
"The salvation of the world is in man's suffering." 

cleans Up nameS 
Dear Editor: 
On Friday afternoon, I received a call from a gentleman who was offended by one of the Bookstore Basketball team names. It is not the intention of Bookstore Basketball to publish any of­fensive names in the schedule. Using names is only an attempt to add in­dividuality and fun to the tournament. 
Representatives from the Office of Student Activities and I, in coordination with the SUB Steering Committee, sat down and did our best to eliminate any names which we thought were poten­tially offensive. I would like to thank those people who were understanding in giving new names. I would also like to formally apologize to those people who were offended by any of the remaining names. We did our very best to be sensitive to all individuals and issues. 
Thank you, and happy hooping. 
Mike Manning Bookstore Basketball XVII Commis­sioner March 28. 1988 
Coke boycott produces results 
Dear Editor: 
The national boycott of Coca-Cola products has been joined by many stu­dents, staff and faculty at Notre Dame. Yet there are others who wonder what good it could possibly do to give up Coke products. Afterall, it seems that not drinking Coke or Minute Maid products is an empty statement against the monolithic apartheid regime in South Africa. As a graduate student in Peace Studies I would like to address the validity and the necessity of boycotts within a historical context. 
The term "boycott" refers to an or­ganized effort to withdraw and encour­age others to withdraw economic cooperation in ways which restrict the buying, selling, and consuming market of an individual or group. The term came into use to refer to that action in 1880, when it originated with the name of a Captain Boycott against whom the peasants of Mayo County, Ireland, were protesting. Economic boycotts have 
Ga Trudeau 

"600{) LUCI<. IA/&U UN[)f3R­FROM A NORTH 5TANP IF YOU AM£3RJCAN N&El/ 7lJ MEi-T INTl3U!GENCE IT [}()tuN. 
AGENc.Y." I 
I 
William Faulkner 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-In-Chief .......................................... Chris Murphy 
Business Maneger .................................. John Oxrider 

Managing Editor .................................. Clvie Donnelly 
AdvertJ41ng Deaign Manaper .................... Molly Kltlen

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .............................. .............. Regia Coocill 
Advflrti8JnQ ManlJ(JIJf .................... Unda Goldechrnidt 

News Editor .............................. ........ Mark Mcl.IJughlln 
Production Manaper ........................ Bei'TI8dfltle Shitla 

Viewpoint Editor .................................... Matt Slaughter
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of System.t Manaper ............................ Mark Ridgeway 
Sports Editor .......................................... Marty StrlJ8flf1 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflec1 the policies of Controllw.................. .Todd Hardiman 
Accent Editor ..............................................Beth Healy
the admtntstrat1on of e1ther 1nst1tution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objeclively as Graphic Alia Manaper....... ...... Marga erur. poss1ble. UnSigned edltortals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
SaJnt Mtuy's Editor ............................Sandy Cerimete Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor .......................................... Michael Moran IS ava1lable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
The Observer 


Anthony Michael HaD as Johnny and Paul Gleason as Coach Hlsler argue on the sidelines during the championship game in the movie "Johnny Be Good." 
'Naked' brings out both monkey and tiger 
RICH THORNBURGH accent writer 
''J f there is no tiger in the mountains, the monkey will be king," 
reads the Chinese proverb partially hidden in the inside cover of the new Talking Heads album. In Naked, lead singer David Byrne exposes the monkey in mankind, and the band expands their earlier style of African rhythms. 
Seeking to capture an international flavor of musical styles, the Heads journeyed to Paris to record this album and incorporated the local talent there. The result? A collection of songs that defy labeling. All the previous styles of the band show up but are taken a step beyond. Most notably, the Heads return to the African polyrhythmic beats they innovated in 1978 with Brian Eno on More Stories About Buildings And Food. They also return to using a large group of musicians as they did on Remain In Light. 
However, the Heads by no means stagnate or retreat into the past on this album. The addition of a whole horn section on several songs exemplifies their continued dedication to exploring musical horizons. They have taken styles that have worked for them in the past and fused them with others to create intriguing new hybrids. 
Byrne's lyrics are intriguing as well, although often disturbing. The theme of the monkey in man runs through several songs and expresses a conflict between man's primary instincts and his higher intellect. "The Facts of Life" states that, "Someday we'll live on Venusf And men will walk on Marsf But we will still be monkeysf Down deep inside." This song is very reminiscent of the Little Creatures album. 
"Totally Nude" continues the monkey theme with, "Living in the treesf The birdies and the beesf 'Cause I'm a nature boy Locked up inside." Byrne seems fascinated with this monkey of man's nature that is always present and waiting to rule--if the tiger of intellect isn't in the mountains.• 
Another fascination of Byrne's is the junk of pop culture which he explored in the album and movie True Stories. He indulges again in "(Nothing But) Flowers" where a man is returned to what most would consider an idyllic state of nature. Yet he misses the Pizza Huts, Dairy Queens, cherry pies and chocolate chip cookies. The ironies and the catchy melody definitely make this song my favorite cut on the album. 
"Blind" further expresses how unharmonious our lives are. It tells of the selfish instincts that often rule people. "He was shot down in the night! People ride by, but his body's still alive....Now what the hell have we become?" 
Returning to a theme expressed in "Don't Worry About the Government" on the 1977 album, Byrne again tells of his fear of government control in "Democratic Circus." He compares politics to a big top circus where flags and microphon,es cover our eyes while sideshows of rhetoric take us on ferris wheel rides like little children. 
Another one of my favorites is "Mommy Daddy You And 1." It's a great song to punch in when you're driving down an open highway late at night. The message, however, is rather disturbing. 
Byrne sings about a family of migrant workers heading to the 
chilly north. The move is tearing the family apart as evidenced by 
one of the boys: "He's speaking English now'And he's smoothing 
out his clothesf He's Mr. Button Dowrv' He's leaving home." The final 
verse begins, "And we're all riding in this old bus" implying that the 
constant movement of our society is destroying everybody's roots. 
The variety of lyrical ideas and musical styles found in this album 
make it worthwhile to wrap your ears around for a few hours. It will 
continue to unfold in different directions and constantly surprise 
you. And don't laugh at the monkey in the gilded frame on the 
cover--it may be your distant cousin. 
WVFI 640 a.m. 

TOPTE" 



MASS/DINING HALL BREAK SCHEDULE 
1. Balloon Man 

Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians 
2. 
Beds are Burning Midnight Oil 

3. 
Kidney Ringoes Wire 

4. 
Mandinka Sinead O'Connor 


5. 
Under the Milky Way The Church 

6. 
(Nothing But) Flowers Talking heads 

7. 
Inside Out Mighty Lemon Drops 


8. 
Birth School Work Death The Godfathers 

9. 
Don't Let's Start They Might Be Giants 

10. 
Wheels Turning The Woodentops 



Thursday  5:00p.m. Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper 6:30p.m. Vigil and Adoration, Lady Chapel 7:00p.m. Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper" 11:00 .m. Tenebrae  North: closed after lunch  South: regular schedule  
Friday  3:00p.m. Celebration of the Lord's Passion 7:00p.m. Celebration of the Lord's Passion ..  North: closed  South: brunch: 11 -1 dinner: 4:45 -6:45  
Saturday  2:00p.m. Blessing of Easter Food .. 8:00p.m. The Paschal Vigil .. 10:00p.m. The Paschal Vigil  North: closed  South: brunch: 11 -1 dinner: 4:45 -6:45  
Sunday  9:00a.m. Celebrant: Fr. James Connelly, CSC 10:30a.m. Celebrant: Fr. John Gerber, CSC 12:30a..m. Celebrant: Fr. David Tyson, CSC  North: closed  South: breakfast: 9:30-1 Easter buffet: 1 :30 -5  
Monday  "'Parish: Keenan-Stanford Chapel Otherwise, celebrated in Sacred Heart  North: opens4:45 for dinner  South: brunch: 11 -1 dinner: 4:45 -6:45  

'Joh 
T
MARC NEMEC accent writer he string of success for 
Saturday Night Live 

alumni seems to have run out 
for Anthony Michael Hall. Most 
of the alum from SNL have 
achieved moderate to enor­
mous success as their careers 
have moved from the small 
tube to the big screen. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Hall plays Johnny Walker, an extremely gifted high school senior football player, who returns punts a Ia Tim Brown, plays quarterback. and even punts the ball with a hang time of over six seconds. If this seems a little bit unrealistic for the first five minutes of a movie, it gets even worse. It seems as 
though almost every college 
in the nation wants Johnny to play for them and they will do anything to get him to sign a 
letter of intent, such as showering him with babes, booze and bucks. All except 
the state college, ingeniously named State College, where Johnny's girlfriend wants 
them 



Wednesday, March 30, 1988 

;, "To hell with spring." sighs Browning. "Now that April's Is April the cruelest month? At November made a fool of there." least temporarily, until someth­Robert Frost: "Not yesterday I Shakespeare might have been ing crueler takes its place, and
' 

II learned to know'T'he love of bare surprised to hear that April is the cruelty is in the eye of the be­November days13efore the com­· cruelest month; his ear wasn't holder. King Lear concluded: ing of the snow." Frost could tuned like Eliot's to the earth 'The worst is not-So long as we have learned a lesson from mother's stirrings. "Fear no can say this is the worst." Thomas Hood, saying his "No!" more the heat o' the sun,!Nor the 
to November: "No shade, no furious winter's rages; Thou thy In all the long walk that my shine, no butterflies, no bees,!No worldly task has done.Mome art fingers took through the an­fruits, no flowers, no leaves, --I gone, and ta'en thy thologies, they found no ot.her November!" wages..Golden lads and girls all poem that says so well what 
Edna Millay spoke for many of musVAs chimney sweepers, Eliot wanted to say: the soul us who go through hell in au­come to dust." Are you listening. without grace is a wasteland, tumn: "Lord, I do fealirhou man for all seasons? "After where nothing can live, waiting madst the world too beautiful many a summer dies the swan." for the rain to fall, so that the this year.!My soul is all but out The paths of glory--and the desert can bloom again. Hop­of me--let fall--No burning leaf; dappled things for which glory kins has provided me with the pritheee, let no bird call." be's to God are said--lead but to prayer I need to freshen with 
John Donne informed us: "I the grave. That's realism free of grace the aridity of the heart. In am a little world made cunnlng­archetypes. the concluding stanza of "Wreck ly;()f Elements, and an angelic "January brings the of the Deutschland," he asks a sprite." This was easy for Donne snow;Makes our feet and fingers drowned nun to intercede in to say, and I could do as much, glow." The blowing winter wind, heaven for the conversion of if I were a metaphysical poet Shakespeare explains, is not so "rare-dear Britain:" experiencing himself as a unkind as man's ingratitude; the microcosm, and a man for all wind's tooth is not so keen, be­"Our King back... Let him seasons as well. To the walking cause it is not seen, but the win­easter in us, be a dayspring to dead, out of love with love, the ter's breath is rude. "When we the dimness of us, be a crimson­seasons are not all the same for shall healirhe rain and wind crested east/More brightening every man, and April as the beat dark December, how1n this her, rare-dear Britain...." cruelest month has to take its pinching cave, shall we dis­Happy Easter! Darby O'Gill and turn. courselfhe freezing hour away?" I never said we didn't love you. 
Live for Ireland blends old and new 
BRIAN C. SHEA  lion people in Ireland--this In  ment of Dylan's words ignores  Breakfast Early," as good as it  
accent writer Llve for Ireland presents a potpourri of Irish music performed during a one day festival In the tradition of Live  a country of just three and a half million people." The album represents 13 of the 30 performing bands. U2, of course, plays. Somehow they found the time between  the subtle irony of apparently inane lyrics. All Is not lost; Ireland, as the album shows, has much to offer. The Pogues, who sometimes appear boozlly  is, does not provide enough time for the listener to appre­ciate The Chieftains long­standing reputation as the ambassadors of Irish Music. Younger bands such as In  
Ald. The musicians' intent in  ending the arms race, sorority  ragged live, perform a tight  Tua Nua, Catus World News,  
I  MUSIC  parties, and redefining rock and roll. If, however, "Maggie's Farm" is any indica­ and grand "Dirty Old Town." Known for their punk-spiked treatment of traditional Irish  and The Fountainhead pro­vide a glimpse of the future of Irish music. The increasing  
tion of the end of the cold  music, the Pogues have ma­ interest and scrutiny focused  
producing Live for Ireland is  war or begining of a new age  tured towards a fusion of the  on Irish music in light of the  
described on the album's cov­ of music, I find little hope in  best In modern and tradition­ more established groups  
er: "The concert was called  either endeavor. The drums,  al. Fronted by the angel in the  remains a challenge to them.  
'Self-Aid' and the purpose of  bass and guitar proceed  guttural voice of Shane Mac­ In a broader spectrum, Live  
this celebration of Irish Con­ obligatorily toward the U2  Gowen, the Pogues deserve  for Ireland reminds us that  
temporary music was to high­light and help the chronic un­ "wall of sound" which by now has been built ad nauseam. It  grace with God and the ears of the faithful.  unemployment and the result­ing social and political  
employment problem In  is hard to tell where Bono's  For the purist, there is The  ramifications remain a chal­ 
'Ireland. In May 1986, there  boredom begins and passion  Chieftains and Clannad.  lenge to Ireland and the  
were rfearly a quarter of a mil- ends. His ov~rwrought treat- However one song, "Boil The  world.  

ny' turns out bad 
Thus, the stage is set for a Is seen as a power-hungry big-time college corruption psycho who has about as movie. How far will the col­much intelligence as a pet leges go to get Johnny? Will rock. Third, college athletes Johnny fall for their corruptive are portrayed as pill-popping. tactics? Will he be unfaithful sex-starved egomaniacs who to his girlfriend while visiting also have as much intelli­any of the colleges? Will the gence as the aforementioned audience's intelligence be in­rock. Finally, women are 
sulted as they watch this given even worse treatment, movie ami should they as evidenced by a cheerleader demand a refund? Without named "Juicy" who, when giving too much away of this asked to distract the opposing 
glorious script and its very team by taking her underwear 
predictable ending. the an­off, intelligently coos "Sure 
swer to the last question is Johnny. Anything for you." 
"Yes." It also seems that the pro­
duction staff tried to help its 
This film Is a perfect exam­cause by presenting cameo ple of a good idea gone ter­roles for Howard Cosell and ribly awry. The topic of illegal Jim McMahon. As a matter of recruiting Is a fresh topic fact, the movie is a great today, as evidenced by such commercial for McMahon and schools as SMU and the Uni­Adldas. What ceases to amaze versity of Illinois. But. alas, me is that it took three men, director Bud Smith decided to Steve Zacharias, Jeff Buhai, take the easy way out by and David Obst to write a throwing up on the screen a movie that has such classic mindless, teenage sex film. dialogue as a mother asking First. all the recruiters are "What about your education, depleted as fast-talking sales­Johnny?" To which Johnny men In plaid polyester suits. replies "Ma, can we just put As a matter of fact. Johnny's this stuff on hold?" Anthony coach also fits this descrip­Michael Hall should have put tion. Second, the town sheriff, this movie on hold because who just happens to be the "Johnny Be Good" is terribly father of Joh 

Is April the cruelest month? 
''A pril is the cruelest April, said Chaucer, is an im­"February brings the 
month, " wrote Eliot. provement on March. April, with rain/fhaws the frozen lake "breeding'Lilacs out of the dead its showers sweet, "The droughts again." February is the dullest land, missing'Memory and of March hath perced to the month. "Thirty days has Septem­desire, stirring-Dull roots with roote/And bathed every vein (in ber/April. June, and Novem­spring rain." Do you think this is plants) in swich licouli'Of which ber;IAII the rest have thirty­true? December, as I remember vertu engendered is the tlowr." one-Excepting February it. was also a bitchy stretch: April, with its alleged cruelty, alone/And that has twenty-eight "Just the worst time of the year," can't hold a candle to March, in days cleat1And twenty-nine in as Eliot's Magi described it. "For like a lion, out like a lamb. each leap year." February's been a journey, and such a long jour­April days, says Shakespeare, short-changed. Carpe diem! ney;/ The ways deep and the have an uncertain glory, when, Seize the day, before winter's weather sharp/fhe very dead of after the rain, the world is "mud­brief candle's out! winter." luscious and puddle-wonderful" 
"March brings breezes, loud and shrill/fa stir the dancingFather Robert Griffin 
daffodil/April brings the prim­rose sweet,;Scatters daisies at 
Letters to a Lonely God our feet.!May brings flocks of pretty lambS'Skipping by their fleecy dams." Housman admires 
The dead of winter is an insult (e. e. cummings) under a bril­May, but he isn't fooled. "The when you're half-dead inside, in liant. though temperamental chestnut casts his flambeaux, need of sleep that is like a burial sun. The Song of Solomon rhap­and the flowerS'Stream from the undisturbed by restlessness, sodizes over April: "For Ia, the hawthorn on the wind away." trying to turn itself into a resur­winter is past. the rain is over More prosaically, in the wind, rection. Emily Dickinson com­and gone. The flowers appear "The doors clap to, the pane is plained of the "certain Slant of on the earth; the time of the blind with showers." With resig­light,;Winter afternoons-.ffhat singing of birds, and the voice nation, "Pass me the can, lad; 
oppresses, like the Heft-Of Ca­of the turtledove is heard in our there's an end of May." 
thedral Tunes." Emily dreaded land." the sight of the first early robin, Spring. however, gets mixed Herrick. a minister of the and I know the feeling. reviews; e. e. cummings calls it Gospel. was unabashedly half a 
A robin redbreast came to my the slattern of seasons. "You pagan, and his naughtiness 
window--in a condition of nature, have dirty legs and a muddy pet­shows. "I sing of brooks, of if you understand what I mean-­ticoat...your eyes are sticky with blossoms, birds, and bowers.;()f looking for a lunch. I said, dreams, and you have a sloppy April. May, June, and July 
"Deary, what did you get your­body from being brought to bed flowersA sing of maypoles, self into that shape for? Why of crocuses." In England, when hock-carts, wassails, wakes.;()f don't you fend for yourself, in­the year's at the spring. to quote bridegrooms, brides, and of 
stead of looking to me for hand­Browning: "The hillside's dew­their wedding cakesA write of outs?" Springtime tries to catch pearled; the lark's on the wing; youth, of love, and have you off-guard and turn you the snail's on the thorn; God's in access13y these, to sing of mushy when you notice a bird. His heaven--All's right with the cleanly-wantonness." Who needs the spring? I say, world!" "Oh, to be in England," 
~-· ~.. ::·x 1 ~ 
Wednesday, March 30, 1988

page 10 The Observer 
Manning leads Jayhawks, looks to become star 
Associated Press "Danny," she said, "the year. As this latest award was to be one of the best things injury-weakened team to this world does not revolve around given to the Big Eight's all­going for the Jayhawks. improbable plateau, he's 
time scoring leader, speakers averaging 26.8 points and seven 
KANSAS CITY, MO. -The kid you. You're just part of a "Danny Manning makes 
was tall and gangly, but revolving world." praised his athletic ability and other players around him bet­rebounds a game. remarkably quick and well The kid listened to his mom. unselfish attitude on the court, ter players," said retired coordinated for his age. At 10, It was a philosophy that was and Darnelle Manning stood Kansas State Coach Jack His list of achievements and 
nearby wearing a proud smile. Hartman, who presented the accomplishments stretch onhe overmatched every other practiced in the Manning 
youngster on the playground household, not just preached. As Kansas prepares to meet Eastman Award. and on. But the lessons he and was getting, naturally, a And it became a part of the Duke Saturday in the semi­Manning enters the 50th learned as a youngster have 
rather inflated opinion of his fabric of his personality. finals of the NCAA tournament Final Four as the seventh all­taken deep root. himself. Tuesday afternoon, Danny -Manning's second Final Four time leading scorer in NCAA 
That's when Darnelle Man­Manning accepted the appearance in a brilliant four­history with 2,895 points. He's Many experts predict Man­ning stepped in. Eastman Kodak trophy as col­year career at Kansas -that scored in double figures in 52 ning will be the first player cho­lege basketball player of the same unselfish attitude figures straight games. In leading his sen in the next NBA draft. 
n.0.....Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, .:cepts cluslfied -'-tislng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtct.y. The a...-Saint Mllry'a office, located on the third floor of twgg.-Collge Center, accepts cluslfleds from 12:30 p.m. unlll3 p.m., Monday through Frtct.y. Deedllne for next-day cluslfleds Is 3 p.m. All cluslfleds must

Classifieds be prllpaid, either In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:harKtenl per day. 
Jenn:NOTICES Room with private beth and entrance, break. DANCING '88-'89 SCHOOL YEAR 
BED AND BREAKFAST Need ride to Philly or D. C. area for Easter ATTENTION FLANNERITES OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FOR RENT 
You may have thought the personal wars garage. 2 night min. 291·7845. Will share expenses. Please call Tasha GAMBLING were never Close to campus and Inexpensive.
over (or started), but they 

aren't. "Mad Fingers" was only the begin· MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2n4 NIGHT; X4041. HORSE RACING 919 South Bend Ave-4 Badrooma 823 
ning ... 

NICE FURNISHED 5 BEDROOM FLANNER SYR APRIL 8! Notre Dame Av~ Bedrooms 8142n-1051 DAY. 
HOUSE, 11.! MILE NORTH OF NO. GET YOUR DATES NOWI Corby Blvd~ Badrooms 702 St. Louis· GOOD AREA. 287-9. ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st 4 Bedrooms 717 St. Louls-5 Bedrooms
Remember, I've seen lhe "videolape" TYPING AVAILABLE 
from the sordid Koppel, PA incident And, 

................................................................ Source Bank will finance your car pur· 733 St. Louis~ Bedrooms 734 St.
287-4082 you were a lot worse than me ... 

chase For more information call Ellen ANGIE ·SMILE! IT'S A BEAUTIFUL DAY. Louls-5 Bedrooms 801 St. Loul~ Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 AN ADMIRER Badrooma CALL LAURA AT 28~621
You know who.

WANTED
WORDPROCESSING· TYPING 

Bartles Imports BMWMAZDANW All THANK· YOU ST. JUDE FOR ANSWER·
272-ll827 N for theN

JETT AS at invoice PH. 272·8504 Ends lNG MY PRAYERS TONIGHT'S THE NIGHT! THE SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS April 30th happy easter! "DYNASTY" CLIFFHANGER! 9:00 Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway LD: 14 MONTHS ALREADY? IT'S UN· TONIGHT! DON'T MISS ITI
N for theN ADOPTION: Loving couple, physician 
camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, SUMMER JOBS BELIEVABLE, YET YOU'RE STILL THE and psychologist, deeply wishes to arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water ALL LANDWATER SPORTS BEST AND MOST BEAUTIFULI DON'T •••• TV TONIGHT •••• adopt newborn. Welcoming wann lam· 
NJ DELEGATION Mock Convention DON'T MISS: lly, love, opportunities! Expenses 
sports, gymnastics, drama, pian<>Piay for PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK FORGETIT!LOVE,EK 
meeting Wed 31.30 6:30 Lib 1000 If ques· 8:00·A "GROWING PAINS" SPECIALpaid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and 
shows, judo, photography, dance, com· MOUNTAINS 
lions call Mark 272· 7 497 ONE HOUR EPISODE Alan collect 212·724-7942. 
pulers, nature, wilderness, model rock­CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­For SOAPY CHRISTMAS TREES, 
etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year· INGS 914-3814224 call Karen's House of Sin 9:00-THE "DYNASTY" CLIFFHANGER book, woodworking, AN and typist. Write: 222·BEER SCOTT AN EXPLOSIVE FINALEIEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, SCOTT 10:0().."HEARTBEAT"
MRS. COKER, 233-7000. 
Eastchester, NY 10707 or call Just SCOTT A NEW DRAMA! 91417799406. say EASTER IN COLORADO Round trip air· SCOTT ALL TONIGHT ON CHANNEL 281 
WORDePLUS SCOTT DON'T MISS THEM!

uNOc. line ticket CHEAP call x4514
Scholaslic Typing-Editing WINNETKA, IL lam lkg for daytime stu· ugly nan on campus ... SCOTT 

2ss.30n 

dent as summer girt. 312-446-3171 THE APPARITOINS OF THE VIRGIN SCOTT eves. MARY IN MEDJUGORJE,YUGOSLAVIA SCOTT "Just stick to the lhings God, she's ugly! WILL BE DISCUSSED ON WED. THE 
you know besl: EXPERT TYPIST WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED shopping, nail polish,

30TH AT 7:30 IN THE BASEMENT OF
CALL JAN FARLEE 256-2393. 

Flexible hours The Dock: 616·699·7466. KEENAN HALL A 45 MIN. MOVIE WILL WE USED TO BE BLANK GENERA· your father's grey BMW, SOPHOMORES FOLLOW. 
TION, BUT THEY BANNED US FROM and your poor rich drunk PLEASE SELL ME GRADUATION TICK· SOPHOMORES CAMPUS WE USED TO BE UNCLE mother in the Carribean." ETS. $$BUCKS CALL FESTER, BUT THEY KICKED US OUT 
INVOLVED$$! CLASS OF 1990 Jason, isn't it? MARC AT 288·7105 WHAT CAN WE SAY, Gotcha! DUCKS are good, DUCKS are cool,
OF THE NAZZ NOW, WE ARE BAR· BARA BILLINGSLY'S OINT· RIDE NEEDED back to ND from Twin MENT ............ AND WE ARE LIVE AT
LOST/FOUND I 

BUT THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES. ...SaWeet, Duuude!l UCKS have Birthdays and think they rule! 
BOYNE Have a Happy Birthday, WENDY Cities after Easter. Will share expenses. MICHIGAN BRIDGEnE'S, FROM EIGHT UNTIL BUREK! love, fellow DUCKS-Stupid, KT,A reward for return of men's gold bracelet 
Call Bridgette 3881-·early mom or late U2 THEY PULL THE PLUG ....... TONIGHT
cocktail & formal dresses for sale. Latest Lizreilly and the girl wlhe raggedy jeans lost in or around the ACC on Sal. Mar. 
eve. DAYTON styles; sizes 5·7 call 272·083619 after the NCAA Tourney night games. 
IN CASE YOU MISSED YESTERDAY'S 

TOGA SCOTT BEARBYPlease. if lhere is a God or a Sl. Jude. 
NEED RIDE TO PITT FOR EASTER SOPH SIBS GLEE CLUB MEMBERS, SECURITY BEAT....... " During the This is a pretty weak excuse for a Per­
or a St. Anlhony, lhen lei lhe finder call CALL JOE 3883 MOVIE NITES Did you know that musical ability is a Nazz Band Competition, an altercation sonals war--you didn't even respond tome. as the bracelet was an 87 xmas gift GONG SHOW serious sexual tum-on for some women. erupted between members of one of my challenge. Guess I really scared you. 
lrom my now deceased wile. Please call NEED F ROOMMATE IN DWNTN CHICAGO (SECOND CITY) You guys are greatl Especially lhe quar· the competing bends and a Student Well, don't hide in fear, just wave a whitePat. 239 5096 or 289 9867 
CHICAGO NR WATERTOWER NEXT WELCOME WEEK tel, the piano soloist, and the Quadrop· Union Board official. The bend refused flag to surrender. Not really fair to have VA ·LINDA 2781 MASSES honic Wannabees, and Tom Foster and to stop playing after the time limit waa a battle of wits with an unarmed personLOST: A gold timex watch with gold band BENDIX Jayme Stayer (watch out what you say up. One of the musicians made I guess (if you don't respond to this, then on March 23 in the ACC weightroom or Want some company on your ride home ST. HEDWIG'S about engineers!). You all just made my obscene remarks and than threw a I will presume you are dead). ·You know the adjacenl rear parking lol. PLEASE to D.C. or Jersey? Better yet I'll $ Call WEEKEND BLITZ microphone at a SUB representative who
whole weekend. From now on I'm acontact Kirk al 289·6714 if you have 
Kim 284·5091 BOWLING when she dlsconnectad the sound
found it. 
system. There ware no Injuries.'' JUST WE HOPE YOU HAD AS MUCH FUN IN CASE YOU MISSED US SAT. NIGHT, Top 20 Quotes from South Padre Spring Glee Club Groupie 
LOST: A YELLOW JACKET IN THE ICE AN WE DID, WE WERE ALWAYS UNCLE FESTER RIDES AGAIN AS Break 88 20 Beer in cereal? 19 WarshCREAM SHOP. REWARD FOR FOR SALE PROUD TO REPRESENT YOU. HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY MEGAN BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINT• the spoon 18 This is a good song 17RETURN. CALL 239~938 OR 683· THANKS FOR GIVING US THAT OP· NOONEI Don't let what happened on MENT ... TONIGHT .. BRIDGETTE'S This is cool as s··l 16 of course I'll call7838. 
PORTUNITY. Margaret's b·day happen on your you tomorrow 15 Is milk cool...or uncool? GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. DAVE, BILL, SUSIE, & MARY owniNever Iorge! your shoes when it BRIDGETTE'S, "TONIGHT, BARBARA 14 No, we don't have any eggs 13 IfFOUND: Claddagh bracelel al Bridgel"s (U Repair) BUY Properties for beck snows.Are you gonna PHONE BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT, DON'T you're tired, go outside and spit and then Saturday night. Call Kathleen £4174. 
TAXES I STRAIGHT MESSAGE £5 HOME?Nooniferous talks curly!Where's COME. WE PLAY SONGS YOU HATE, go lo bed 12 Take it! 11 Give Rag a beat Info, REPO Listing 1-518-459-3546 "YOU'VE NEVER ACTED LIKE THAT Fenster?You guys, can I eat?Taxi FAST. WE PLAY SONGS YOU LIKE LOST: N.D. RING··Inscriplion reads."T J EXT H-794 24 Hra. BEFORE. FAST. WE SUCK. BESIDES, RICK AND Riders needed lo Baltimore for Easler
timellt's not pop, it's sodaiYou guys, I'm
G "89".1f lound. please call x2003.REWARDIIIII ······················•········•································ mad at you!Do you like "cream" of wheat? 
And you say you don't even remember. CZAR ARE GOING TO BE THERE, Break ·Karen 284·5238 You were so crude and didn't listen to Is the shower comfy? How about the WHAT BETTER REASON TO GO me at all. I'm questioning all I ever hall?llove your new sweater vestl Where SOMEWHERE ELSE.
LOST: A BLUE ANN KLEIN SASH. LOST 
TICKETS 
lhought about you." tonite?Nieuwland or Crowley?Do ya want Thish··OH, HAPPY DAYISATURDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE BE· a baby, or a baby face? No drinking BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT WELCOME TO THE CAMPUSITWEEN GRACE HALL AND WASHING· before frenchiWe need a babysitter for BENEFIT CONCERT ··MATTTON HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL Transfer student looking for cheap sub· Meg againiMaybe when you're 20 you'll TONIGHT AT BRIDGETTE'S
CHRISM X1747 GREG 2n-llll98. let for summer months! call 3484 be able to drink vodka againl Love yal EIGHT TILL THEY PULL THE PLUG Margaret & Rachel $2.00 COVER, DRINK SPECIALS SEAN A.
Lost: a small brown leather pouch on a round trip tickets-new orleans-very cheap Ride lor 2 needed to NYCNorlhern NJ YEAH, IT'S A CHEAP WAY TO GET I'M GONNA COME BACK HERElealher necklace. containing a relic of St. 
call-232·055()..5 area for Easter Break. Will share ex· It's Mainline Megan's 19thl wish her a ATTENTION, BUT, GIVE US A BREAK, EVERY DAY OF MY LIFE FOR penses and driving. call 2282. happy one at 4553! WE JUST HAD OUR EQUIPMENT THE REST OF MY LIFE! STOLEN FOR THE SECOND TIME 
T. Aquinas. Any help call Eric 1305. 
LOST: Silver,Baii·Poini.Cross pen ··II THIS YEAR.
HEY YOU found please call Kevin £1004 

The sole reason HEY YOU COME AND DRINK TILL YOU PUKE, OR COME AND LISTEN TO US TILL Sean Pieri 
PERSONALS 
lhat Notre Dame women HEY YOU YOU PUKE. Sean PieriFOUND: CAR AND DORM KEYS, POS· 
were not in the top THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Sean PieriSIBLE ROOM IS 140 (AS PRINTED ON 
150 best looking ANY COMEDIANS, M.C.'S, OR CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE female college populations: PEOPLE WITH STUPID HUMAN Can't wait for your illness to pass· TheDORM KEYS) OF SOME DORM. 
FOUND AROUND JACC PARKING LOT Nicole S., ohn B. is a BUMI Love,
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. female population awaits your return.
nan sauer for UMOC... TRICKS THAT WANT TO PERFORM IN 1ST FLA. LAFORTUNE. 
AREA. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND ON Stanley 
BETWEEN BANDS AT THE GREAT COED BICYCLE TOURS.COLORADO ESCAPE OF 88 AT STEPAN ON ~5 HELP! I lost my I.D., my Detex and
Coincidence or divine intervention: two Smoke SHOULDCONTACTDAVEAT1851 OR
ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· drivers license. Lost somewhere be·
girls born a day apart, destined to be·PLEASEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I losl a small gold TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· Poke tween the Commons and D6. ldon't care

PETE AT 1422 IMMEDIATELY! ALL come the besl of friends ... A day later, achain braceletll Somewhere between LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. about lhe money· Please call Carrie
Soak PROCEEDS FROM THE MARAT· virile sel of twins born, ordained to beB.P. and La Fortune I think. Someone 
x3840 will kill me if I go home without ij•. 
II you're thirsty HOKCONCERT WILL BENEFIT CYS. their love bins. Isn't that precious? ZJPIII 
COKE TIC FIBROSIS. Happy Birthday MC, E, Mlck andsentimentallll If found, please call Janice Frank.
at X1264. THANKSI! Found: 19" gold chain in faculty lot in
YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· 
Things We Won't Miss XXVI: 
Sunday Morning STUDS, Tommy, Ben, 0 YES, I really do want lo go to Sl. Louis front of 01. Call 4339bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College Student Body Election Platforms Lee, Greg, Chris, Mike, Dave, and Mitch with you this weekend. I know we willP.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
·Thanks for getting up so early I We'll mee have a great time even if they will all Miguel Huerta·Confidentiality Guaranteed. endad
FOR RENT 
you in the MUDI Love all your Volleyball mak<> fun of me. LOVE, WIZ The MLeSST claims responsibility for Smoke 
Women the kidnapping of the "Amigo". If ourOh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, Soak YES, I WILL GO TO ST. LOUIS WITH demands are not met within 1 0 days he FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· great in virtue and rich in miracle near Broke YOU.IKNOWWEWILLHAVEAGREAT
MEGAN·· Have a blast on your B·day but will die a slow and torurous death· further If You're Thirsty PLEASE PLEASE don't get LOSTI TIME EVEN IF THEY DO MAKE FUN instructions will follow. 
BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288·095&255· Kinsman ol Jesus Christ, faithful inter· 
3884 cessor of all who invoke your special Drink COKE OF ME. LOVE, WIZ 
patronage in time of need, to you I have 2 & 7 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT, recourse from the depth of my heart and 
Little Stanton, PAUL, ARE THE PERSONALS INTER·

FOR SUMMER lvOR FALL. 272~306 humbly beg to whom God has given such HEY MEGAN rna BEBE! Your naturally Thanks for coming up! It's been great
MOCK CONVENTION! MOCK CON· ESTING TODAY? YOU BETCHA
great power to come to my assistance. curly brown hair drives me wildl Happy Laura 
VENTION I 50 delegates still needed for CAUSE THIS ONE IS ESPECIALLY
FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL. Help me in my present urgent petition, Birthday! Love,Guido 
the Convention. Sign up in LaFortune; POUR TOI. I FELT I HAD TORTURED
LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH In return, I promise to make your name Oh, shootl 
second lloor. Join the fun! YOU LONG ENOUGH. HAVE A GREAT 
LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, known and cause you to be invoked. Say Frank and Betty are coming to N.D. Have Happy Birthday to N.D.'s one and only DAY KNOWING THAT THE SMILE ON
CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI· lhree Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and a Happy Easler! L&C 
APHI PANITPAKDI!II We love youl the MY FACE AND THE TWINKLE IN MYANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS Glorias. Publication must be promised. 
MORE QUOTES FROM KEY WEST '88 Lyons juniors EYES ARE REFLECTIONS OF HOW
AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN· St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. Mark P,
HAPPY YOU MAKE ME FEEL. JE

FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA· Amen. This Novena must be said for 9 1. Raata Jarhead Thanks lor being such a NICE GUY and 
T'AIME. AN ANGEL FROM "HEABEN".

All praise to the Bradleygod! I 
TION CALL 2n·7360 DAYS OR 272· consecutive days. 2. Don't stop drinking rescuing me from Michiana Regionall · 6181 EVENINGS. 3. 48 houra Carol
"OH, I WET 'EM." 

Students: Sell your unwanted class 4. IIIII LLLLike Ill HAVE SUCCESSFUL 2ND .INTER· books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 5. No pain, No pain r squared, VIEW? Rent Chgo 1 br aptl Big enuf Howard off NO Ave. 1 0·5:30, 7day&Week Praises to the Bradleygodlll gonna miss you. get well I love, me
............................................ 
to ahara. Sunny vintage ctyd bldg. 233-2342 
ATTENTIONIll Hdwd nra, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clata, HEY YOU ... DIANE T (P.E.) It COMING SOONI COMING SOONI P.S. Happy 396 daysl Something that 
bam! storage, lndry. 11.! blk to Lk Shr SPRINGBREAK·OUTSALEIApr.15-17. ugly, ugly, ugly ... isn't our fault that IT exploded, you were JOE NEWELL'S 19THI 26 H.C. could blow your mind, like my age. Dr, bua, 2 blk to L tm, Wrlg, Fld. $650 Used Books 5()..90% off. New books 30% that's mah tickeet!l the one that BLEW ij up to hard, but THE BIG DAY IS APRIL 4THI You're slill not off the hook for thai. Incl. ht. Moat Chgo lea-renew 5'1, off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off NO ugly, ugly, ugly ... thanks for the RIDE anyway. Love AI· WISH HIM A HA~PY 8-DAYI Thinking of ya. • 
so call Nrlyl 312~71-3397 (ND'80). Ave. 10·5:30 7 days' week. 233-2342 ugly nan on campus ... ways: Squirrel and Mike Amo Te Semper 

Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, March 30, 1988 page 11 
Bookstore Results and Schedules 
Tueoday'o Reoulls Stepan 1 
4:00 · G1mme Some Jazz.. Yea Some Jazz over 4 Handsome Dudes & 1 Ugly Slob by 8 
4:45 · Skud & 4 Other Couch Polaloes over Friends of Ed Pelican by 14 
5:30 · House, Moose & 3 Other Guys over Bakker, Swaggert, Robertson... by 11 
6: 15 · Swaggert, Bakker, Har, & 2 Others ...over Our 
First One Was Better by 2 Stepan 2 
4:00 · Frankie Valley & the 4 Seasons over Punt, Pass, & K•ck by 2 
4:45 · 4 Vars1ty Athletes & A G(r)eek over We Are Shirts by 15 
5:30 · Son Of All over Shoo!er & Dribblers by 6 
6:15 · No Bones over The Banana Slugs by 5 Stepan J 
4:00 · Tookey Masters over Come See Stam UMOC Swallow A Goldfish by 20 
4:45 · S's AII·Around over Slave Labor by 19 
5:30 · Scene 01 lhe Crime over NEHU by 8 
6:15 · Pterodactyl & lhe Imitation Egg Sealers over London Pnde by 2 
Stepan 4 

4:00 ·Where Are Vou Bud? over Shorty, Squirt, Halt P1nt. Tiny & Spud by 11 4·45 . Malicious Prosecution over Where's The Jus· 11ce? by 15 
5:30 . The Fun Bunch over 3 Couch Potatoes, A Physics God ... lndlvidual by 11 
6:15 . The New Tumbleweeds over Bakker, Swag· 
gert & 3 Others Jim's... by 6 Stepan 5 
4:00 ·Possible Skank over The Young Fresh Fellows by 14 
4:45 4 Drunks & A Dnver over Bakker, Swag· gert... Pay For It by 3 
5:30 . B·elemenls over The Blind Venelians by 2 
6:15. D1ck Vilale's AII·Siars over A Guy With A 3.9 
Who Couldn't... by 3 Stepan 6 
4:00 · Mr. Woolit & the Cavity Creeper over Five Dogs You Can Eat... by 3 
4:45 . We're Pathetic So Vou Better Not Lose over Stone Pony, Steve... by 6 
5:30 · The Mad Latin Lover & His Fellow Danki over Strategic Frottage by 11 
6:15. Spidey's Netters over Flo Joe's Hulksters by 18 
Bookotore 9 

4:00 · Red Death & the Jammin· Provost over War PIQB by 21 4·45 ·Johnny Duumbears over Tex Toomey & lhe Screaming Armadillos by 11 
Base)Jall Top 25 
Collegiate Baaebaii-ESPN Top 25 
The Top 25 college baseball teams In the Col­leglate Basebaii-ESPNpoll with this season's record (through March 27) and total points. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
t. Oklahoma St. 21-1-0 499 2. Texas 35·5-0 497 3. Fresno St. 29·6·0 493 4 Miami 29-5-0 492 5. Loyola Mt. 29·7·0 469 6. Texas A&M 28·6-0 482 7. Nebraska 20-4-0 479 8. Fullerton St. 23-9-0 476 9. Mississippi St. 16·6-0 473 10. Washington St. 19·4-0 469 11. Call1ornia 23·11-462 12. LSU 18-6-0 460 13. Stan1ord 19·10-457 14. Michigan 11·5·0 453 15. Florida 24·8·1 449 16. Southern Cal 24·10-0 448 17. Arizona St. 32·8-0 446 18. Arkansas 21-8-0 443 19. Wichita St. t3-4·0 442 20. Clemson 24-6-0 438 21. Florida St. 21-7·0 435 22. New Orleans 17·1D-O 430 23. Oklahoma 21-8-0 426 24. BVU 18·7-0 425 25. Indiana 19-1-0 421 
NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE Adamo Dlvlelon 
w L T GF GA Pia. y-Montreal 43 22 12 282 229 98 y·Boston 43 28 6 294 242 92 y-Buffalo 36 31 10 274 290 82 y-Hartford 34 36 7 241 258 75 Quebec 32 41 4 263 292 66 
Patrick Olvlelon y·N.Y. Islanders 38 29 10 297 256 86 y·Washington 38 31 8 270 233 84 Philadelphia 37 33 7 279 263 81 Pittsburgh 34 34 9 306 301 n 
N.V. Rangers 34 34 9 287 276 n New Jersey 35 36 6 277 289 76 5:30 · 5 Guys With A Suburban White Pump Fake over 4 Guys & A Short Dark by 14 
6:15 ·Crick, Mook & 3 Other Guys Afraid of Showers 
over The Prudish Ones by 12 Bookstore 10 
4:00 · Students Of the Game over Just Because I Don't Know What It Is... by 2 
4:45 · The Dunks & 2 Oinks over Paleozoic Bums by 12 
5:30 · Barking Rats over Team No. 69 by 5 
6: t 5 · Sheath, Shout, Score I over Lords of The Right Hand Rule by 12 
Lyons 11 

4:00 . Spring Break over 4 Guys Who Got Air & t Guy Who Gets Air by 3 
4:45 . LaiVae:Boon Or Bane over Woosheroonies by 16 
5:30 · You've Got A Bye over Solid Frustration by 16 
6:15 The Illegitimate Children 01 St. Thomas 
Aquinas over Stop, My Ribs... by t I Lyons 12 
4:00 · Preemo & The Squankers over 5 Apostles by 
6 

4:45 . St. Michael's Shrinks Vour Underwear over 5 Disciples of Dan Gerlach by 9 
5:30 . Dogged by The Steering Committee over Lucky Dog-Crunchy, Meaty ... by 13 
6:15 . The Citizens over 5 Guys Who Want To Be TV Evangelists So... by 17 
Wednesday's Games Stepan 1 
4:00 · 5 Slamma Jamma vs. Young Socialists at NOOMC, Vou.. . 
4:45 ·Jim Bakker, Swaggert & 3 Other Guys Whose Rise... vs. Faculty Jokes 
5:30 · Sloppy Dice vs. Fire Digger 
6:15 · Man in a Canoe Overboard vs. Dick Vitale, 
AI Maguire, Dick Phelps... Stepan 2 
4:00 -The Package & His 4 Supporters vs. Timbo Monita 
4:45 · 4 Men and A Baby vs. The Watusi 
5:30 • 10 Legs·9 Hands vs. 5 Guys Who Want To Be 3 Men 6:15-We'reGonna Lose & We Know It vs. Keenan's Senior Citizens 
Stepan J 

4:00 -Censored vs. No Bones 4:45-20 Something vs. Does Anyone Want to Play With Us? 
5:30 -Grover's Revenge vs. Shark Croakies 
6:15 · Wally & Julie, Steve & Kathleen Forever vs. Spaed O's 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Thursday 
Men's tennis vs. HAWAII Baseball vs. DAYTON (2) at Kovaleski 
Friday 

Baseball vs. DAYTON (2) at Kovaleski Lacrosse at Lake Forest Golf at Purdue Invitational 
Saturday 
Baseball vs BALL STATE Track at Navy Golf at Purdue Invitational 
Sunday 
Baseball vs. White Sox at Comiskey Park Golf at Purdue Invitational 
Monday 
Baseball at Bowling Green Men's tennis at Ball State 
Tuesday 
Baseball VS NORTHEASTERN ILLI­NOIS 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smy1he Dvlalon 
w L T GF GA Pia ><-Calgary 47 21 9 383 289 103 y·Edmonton 42 25 10 347 278 94 
y-Winnipeg 31 36 10 278 298 72 y-Los Angeles 28 42 7 298 344 63 Vancouver 24 45 9 264 316 57 
Norris Division 
x-Detroit 40 27 11 312 261 91 y-St. Louis 34 36 8 272 284 76 y-Chicago 30 39 9 278 320 69 Minnesota 19 45 ,13 237 333 51 Toronto 20 48 10 265 35 
50 

x-clinced division title y·clinched playoff berth 

HAPPY 21st 
BIRTHDAY 
TOM. 
Love/ 
,. 

Mom/ Dad I Beth&. Nancy 
Stepan 4 
4:00 -Do you Know Anything About Real Estate? vs. Club Dankis 
4:45 -4 Girls Who Cheated on Their Boy-Friends Over ... vs. Look For Us in... 
5:30 -Jack Daniels All Stars vs. Revenge of The Screaming Midgets From Hell 6:15-4 Men & a Guy Who is Gonna Have A Baby vs. Rabid Bats From Hell 
Stepan 5 
4:00 -Shaggy & the Mystery Machine vs. Too Old To Care 
4:45 -The Magnanimous Chubbies vs. Beta Theta Pi 
5:30 -Gimme Some Jazz... Veah Some Jazz vs. 7 Idiots and a Psychotic Grocery ... 
6:15 -Michael, Cool J, and 3 Other Guys ...vs. They 
Came From the Lake Stepan 6 
4:00 · Get Out of My Face vs. Sheath, Shout, Score I 
4:45 · Uncle Fester & the Chiefs vs. The Retarded Radicals 
5:30 -We Eat Fish on Friday's vs. Pump Up the Volume 
6:15 · Hearty Beet over Rice, Real Food For .. vs. The Mac Show 
Bookstore 9 4:00-I Can't I Have Crew in the Morn vs. The Giving Tree 
4:45 -Hahn's Funeral Home vs. Bullhead & the Big Bad Express 
5:30 -Bibo Ergo Sum vs. 3 Bimbos & the Horses They... 
6:15 ·The Hinerant Nomads of the Raped Gumball... 
vs. 4 Guys & 1 Talented . Rookstore 1 0 
4:00 · The 5 Architects vs. Wet Armadillos 
4:45 · Vilkinova Jimmy I Want Your... vs. Murph & The Magic Tones 
5:30 · Tales from the Darkside vs. The New
Tumbleweeds 

6:15-Hutch's Luv Walrus vs. 4 Chiefs & The Billy 
Bear 

Lyons 11 
4:00 · Jeff and His Roommates vs. Equable Wayne St. Suspensions 
4:45 -505 vs. We Can Run More Than You Can 
5:30 -Hey Mark, Can We Get A Ride To the Mall vs. The Citizens 6:15-Big Plans vs. A Business Major & 4 People Who Don't Cheat 
Lyons 12 
4:00 -Trixie and the Weasel Bashers vs. Spidey's Netters 
4:45 · The Disturbed vs. Skid Row Swallows 
5:30 -Prime Time Scoots vs. Death Potatoes 6:15-The Return of Team £563 vs. Still Friends Of Chris Nanni 
.Exhibition Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East 
w L Pc1. GB 
NV Mets 16 9 .640 
Montreal 14 11 .560 2 
Chicago Cubs 16 13 .552 2 
Pittsburgh 14 14 .500 3.5 
Philadelphia 11 15 .423 5.5 
St. Louis 10 14 .417 5.5 
West 
Los Angeles 19 9 .679 
Cincinnati 15 10 .600 2.5 
San Francisco 14 12 .536 4 
Houston 14 13 .519 4.5 
San Diego 11 15 .423 7 
Atlanta 7 20 .259 11.5 
Tuesday's Results Houston 5, Philadelphia 4 Pittsburgh 10, St. Louis 2 Montreal 4, Atlanta 0 NY Mets 3, Baltimore 1 Los Angeles 10, Kansas City 9 (10 innings) Chicago Cubs 6, San Francisco 2 San Diego 4, California 2 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 
w L Pet. GB NV Yankees 18 9 .667 toronto 16 a .667 .5 Boston 13 12 .520 4 Cleveland 13 13 .500 4.5 Milwaukee 12 16 .429 6.5 Baltimore 9 14 .391 7 Detroit 8 16 .333 8.5 
West 
~ansas City 15 12 .556 Seattle 14 12 .538 .5 California 13 12 .520 1 Oakland 13 13 .500 1.5 Texas 11 14 .440 3 Chicago White, Sox 12 16 .429 3.5 Minnesota 9 165 .52 79.5 
Tuesday's Results Toronto 6, Texas 2 Chicago White Sox 2, Cincinnati o Oakland 12, Cleveland 7 Seattle 7, Milwaukee 0 Boston vs. Detroit, late 
Sports Lists . 
PAYMENTS TO NCAA MEN'S TOURNAMENT TEAMS, 1988* 
First Round Participant-$230,700 each Second Round Participant -$461 ,500 each Regional Semifinalists -$692,200 each Regional Finalists-$922,900 each Final Four Teams-$1,153,700 each 
ffl-* Estimated Source: NCAA 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r' 

, Scorebo_ard 
Fencing Baseball 
Men Notre Dame 8, Bethel 2 2nd in NCAA Tournament Notre Dame 2, Bethel 1 Todd Griffee, 2nd, epee division Wisconsin 9, Notre Dame 2 Ted Fay,. 18th, epee division Notre Dame 5, Butler 1 Yehuda Kovacs, 4th, foil division Notre Dame 3, Butler 2 Bill Leary, 16th, foil division Notre Dame 3, Chicago State 1 Lesek Nowosielski, 4th, sabre division Notre Dame 3, Chicago State 0 Danny Yu, 13th, sabre division 
Women Tennis 
2nd in NCAA Tournament Women Molly Sullivan, 1st Notre Dame 6, Eastern Michigan 3 Anne Barreda, 3rd 
Kristin Kralicek 13th Lacrosse Golf 
Notre Dame 14, Wooster 4 Notre Dame 309, Lewis 315 
Notre Dame 1 0, Windy City 4 
.Irish Baseball 
Through Tuesday 
BATTER  GP  AB  R  H  2B  
Greg Vogele, OF  12  7  4  3  0  
Dan Peltier, OF  23  73  24  27  13  
Pat Pesavento, SS  23  78  27  28  1  
Tim Hutson, 1 B  23  71  16  25  2  
James Sass, OF  22  62  11  19  4  
Chris Flynn, DH  20  56  7  16  6  
EdWard Lund, 1 B  23  46  8  13  1  
Craig Pavlina, c  5  4  0  1  1  
Mike Moshier, 2B  23  74  13  17  5  
Pat O'Brien, C  11  26  2  5  0  
Mike Coss, 36  18  43  8  8  0  
Jeff Knight, C  8  12  1  2  0  
Steve Skuplen, 38  17  34  8  4  1  
Terry Andrysiak, OF  19  47  7  4  1  
David Yawman, C  10  14  2  1  0  
David Legus, 1B  4  6  0  0  0  
Mike Flotkis, OH  3  2  0  0  0  
John Flanagan, OF  4  0  1  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  23  655  139  173  35  
OPPONENTS  23  658  120  182  25  
l-eft on  base: Notre Dame  158, Opponents  140  
PITCHER  GP  GS  IP  H  BB  
Anthony Llvorsi  1  0  .1  0  0  
Mike Coffey  3  0  4.0  1  3  
Kevin Kearns  4  0  5.1  4  5  
Erik Madsen  8  6  43.2  34  9  
Unzle Kramer  2  0  5.0  8  1  
Tom Howard  4  1  10.0  12  6  
Kevin Chenall  5  5  22.0  24  5  
Mike Passilla  8  3  25.1  25  9  
Brian Piotrowicz  7  6  26.2  32  13  
Mike Harmon  9  2  22.0  33  5  
Zachary Nagle  1  0  1.2  3  1  
Dark Madden  2  0  3.0  6  5  
NOTRE DAME  23  23  169.0 182  62  
OPPONENTS  23  23  1175.0173  124  

Saves: Notre Dame 1 (Pasilla), Opponents 0 
3B  HR  RBI  BA  
0  0  3  .429  
0  3  26  .370  
1  0  7  .359  
1  7  28  .352  
0  0  4  .306  
0  2  11  .286  
1  0  6  .283  
0  0  2  .250  
0  0  15  .230  
0  0  4  .192  
0  0  4  .186  
0  0  0  .167  
0  0  2  .118  
0  0  2  .085  
0  0  2  .071  
0  0  0  .000  
0  0  0  .000  
0  0  0  .000  
3 4  12 19  116 102  .264.2n  
so  ER  W-L  ERA  
0  0  o-o  0.00  
2  0  0-0  0.00  
6  1  o-o  1.69  
35  15  5·1  3.09  
3  2  o-o  3.09  
5  5  o-o  4.50  
9  11  2-1  4.50  
8  13  1-3  4.62  
12  20  2·3  6.75  
11  17  2-3  6.95  
0  2  o-o  10.80  
3  8  o-o  24.00  
94  94  12·11  5.01  
111  102  11·12  5.25  


LAST YEAR 7, Sl4 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING, 
Think

' 'l .. • , I\.. . 1 (··' ~. (, ·· r:0;, ,~~ l·-. ~ ·~ ,:v .,-)~­
of· your 

.,,~~~~~--~~ 
OON'T IHIIVi DRtiNII, OR RIDi WITH Afl'fONl..W...H..O••00••11. • 
best friend. 
-

1~11!!!!!!!!~~~~ 
Now,

1~!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!UN10N ~ STAT~ION~]~Ijl!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!ft 
think of your

CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE South Bend's Historic Art Deco Train Station is a 
best friend 

Great Place for Your Graduation Party. We have 
dead.

halls to accomodate 25 to 600 people. CALL 233-2876 
Doo't ~drunk. 
Reader's Digest 
• 


,.-------~-~-----------~--------~ ~~--~ --­

Wednesday, March 30, 1988

page 12 The Observer 
-
I 
L 
ND baseball faces Sox on road trip 
By THERESA KELLY and the Sox will face their own pitchers and the opposing team 
Assistant Sports Editor will be in the field. The Notre Dame baseball The Irish are on a ron; having team continues its breakneck won four straight and six of pace over the Easter weekend, their last seven contests to up playing eight games in seven their season record to 12-11. days, including an exhibition game on Sunday against the "We're pleased right now, to Chicago White Sox in Comiskey an extent," Murphy said. "We Park. still have a long way to go. We've got to strive for consis­The other seven games con­tency. sist of a road contest at Bowling "It's a tremendous schedule Green and home meetings with of games. There's pressure. Northeastern Illinois, Ball ·The players can't let that get.~ State, and four big games to them. They have to keep up against the Dayton Flyers. the good work all-around." The two doubleheaders to­Murphy and this season's morrow and Friday against the edition of Irish baseball are Flyers will mark the return of winning now, but the schedule Irish baseball to the Midwes­may take its toll, especially on tern Collegiate Conference the pitching staff. after a one-year hiatus. "It's a tougher conference "The pitching has been hold­than people realize," said Irish ing up," Murphy said. "The head coach Pat Murphy. pitchers have been winning "Dayton, Xavier, games for us of late, but we Detroit.. .they're all tough. can't expect that kind of per­We're definitely in the tougher formance of the same guys all of the two divisions." the time. We are going to have to rely on younger people to The MCC is split into two help us." divisions. Notre Dame will play Junior pitcher Erik Madsen in the Northern Division with leads the staff with a 5-1 record, Dayton, Xavier, and Detroit, including Sunday's shutout of while the Southern Division Chicago State. On the offensive consists of Saint Louis, side, sophomore Dan Peltier Evansville and Butler. leads the Irish through 23 If the Irish are one of the top games with a .371 average. Pat two teams in the Northern Divi­Pesavanto is batting .359 and sion, they will play in the MCC leads the team in runs and hits. tournament, the winner of Tim Hutson has hit seven home which receives an automatic runs and leads the Irish with 28 bid to the NCAA Tournament. RBis. The game at Comiskey Park The Irish are back, at least is closed to the public. The Irish for now, to winning ways. 
Syracuse, Navy plan to challenge N D track 
By MARK O'SULLIVAN in the 400 meters, Saturday Sports Writer should be a big day." The weight section of the 
Coach Joe Piane's Notre meet could evolve into Piane's Dame track team will surface surprise success. Senior Tom at the U.S. Naval Academy in Mick's hammer throw efforts Annapolis, Md., Easter already have brought him a bid weekend in a mettle-testing to the IC4A's, while football­meet against a heavily-armed playing freshman Ryan Navy squad and Big East beast Mihalko, with senior Brian Syracuse. Driscoll and junior Chuck Cur­
ley waiting in the wings, 
"Navy is excellent, with a presents a major threat to win million guys on their team," the javelin throw, having won piped a pumped-up Piane, impressively his collegiate "and Syracuse is very tough, debut. so we are looking forward to doing well and counting on good "I just fell shy of 200 feet, but weather to give us a boost." the inclement weather prob­
ably affected all throwers ad­
Additional emphasis has versely, as we all achieved our been placed on the workouts oc­best tosses in our initial at­curing since Saturday's suc­tempts," Mihalko noted, "but cessful Notre Dame Invita­I'm just happy that we were tional as Piane will enter only consistent. I needed to get my three contestants in each feet wet at this level, and I hope event. Competition for the top to make a contribution to a win­spots has been heated and jock­ning aim this weekend." eying for positions is ongoing. 
The· burly-Curley forecasts 

The 5,000-meter field is espe­Navy as "quite a gutcheck" cially fertile soil for an Irish and envisions a bragging­high-place harvest, lrith senior rights reunion with high school co-captain Dan Garrett and teammate Bob Floyd, a 6-9, 300­junior Ron Markezich expected pound Midshipman with top­to battle for first place honors. notch shotput and discus 
Long sprinter . Chris credentials. Curley feels he can McGuire, who is set to contrib­push Mihalko and Driscoll to ute in several relays, echoed impressive performances and Piane's ebullience with the with luck could sneak past into strong showing at the Invita­serious contention. tional. 
Overall, Piane's Fighting 

"Tons of close-call, second-Irish need a strong showing to place finishes spread some demonstrate their ability to great confidence," mentioned compete seriously in more McGuire. "With Dave Warth areas on a par with nationally­and Mark Lavery boosting us renown programs. 
· Sports Briefs 
The ND Softball club started its season The ND Sailing club hosted the Notre last weekend with a two-game sweep of Dame Freshman Icebreaker last weekend at Purdue, knocking off the Boilerma~ers by St. Joe's Lake. Michigan placed first, Min­scores of 6-2 and 5-2. Kathy Vernetb had a nesota came in second, Iowa placed third and triple and single for the Irish, Marie Liddy Notre Dame finished in fourth in the fleet of recorded three hits in the two games and 14 schools from the Midwest. This weekend, Monica Heller added two hits. The 2-0 Irish the team will travel to Miami of Ohio for its face Grace College today at Turner Field in spring regatta. There will be a meeting for all Ironwood. -The Observer club members tonight at 6:30 at the boathouse. 
-The Observer 

Women's Bookstore Basketball will The ND golf team defeated Lewis hold a captains' meeting on Thursday, April 309-315 Tuesday at Burke Memorial Golf 7 at Montgomery Theater. For more informa­Course. Pat Mohan was the Notre Dame tion, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Observer medalist with a round of 73. The Irish have 
won 22 consecutive dual meets under Coach Noel O'Sullivan since 1975. -The Observer 

The ND Water Polo club will hold a mandatory meeting for all club members Sports Briefs are accepted in writing tonight at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 7 p.m. Sunday through Friday in The Observer of­with practice to follow. Any questions should fices on the third floor of LaFortune Student be directed to Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to Observer publication. -The Observer 

Pizza for the dorm. A ski trip. Tickets to a concert. They're all possible with the savings you'll get with the special student discount on members of the IBM"' Personal System/2'M family. 
More important is what's possible when you use the systems themselves. 
They can help you graph economic problems. And write and revise long papers with ease. Even illustrate your points ·~··. · by combining words and graphics. So your professors will draw favorable conclusions about your work. 
But remember, order your Personal System/2 before graduation. 
After that, we can't deliver your discount. 
FOR PRICING AND INFORMATION CONTA~T: 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE ROOM 25 -COMPUTING CENTER 239-7477 
An IBM Education Product Coordinator location 

IBM is a registered trademark and Personal System/2 i!-1 a trademark of the International Bus1ness Machine!-. Corpomtion. ©IBM Corporation 1987 
Wednesday, March 30, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Fencing to be in the spotlight at Notre Dame 
ND sends A Spectator's Guide to Fencing 
2 fencers 

In foil touches are scored with the point of the blade and must land whithin the torso of the body (colored area on drawing). The fencer's valid target area is covered with a metallic threaded vest. When an opponent's blade hits the vest, the depressable tip completes an
to Juniors 
electrical circuit which sets off a light and a buzzer on a scoring machine. A colored light 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
signifies a valid hit, and a white light signifies an off-target hit. The director must then decide 
Sports Writer 
who is to be awarded the touch on the basis of "right of way" rules. 
Notre Dame will be sending two fencers to the 1988 Junior World Fencing Champion­
Sabre fencing allows touches to be scored with cutting motions as well as with the point of 
ships, Anne Barreda and Les­
the blade. The target area is the entire body above the bend of the hips. There is no
zek Nowosielski. 
electrical scoring in sabre fencing, therefore a jury composed of the director and four side
Anne Barreda, a sophomore 
judges is !JSed. If any of the judges see a hit they raise their hand, and the bout is halted.
ranked as the number three wo­man fencer in the United 
The director then analyzes the actions according to the "right of way" rules and the judges 


States, is actually seeded 
are polled (each judge has one vote and the director has one and a half votes). 
second in the Junior Worlds. 
Nowosielski, a freshman, is ranked fourth in the nation in men's sabre. Both earned these 
The epee is a descendant of the dueling sword. In epee touches are scored only with the 
rankings last week at the 
point of the blade, and the entire body is the valid target area. Touches are registered by 
NCAA championships, and 
means of electrical scoring equipment (as in foil). There is no "right of way" in epee, he who 
both have qualified to compete 
hits first scores a touch and if both hit at the same time both score a touch. All bouts in all
in the Junior Worlds. 
weapons go until a fencer scores five touches or time is called. In epee if both fencers are
"I'm going for the experi­
tied when time is called, they both lose, however, in foil and sabre the next touch wins. 
ence and to do the best I can," said Barreda. "It's going to be 


Source: Junior World Fencin
a new experience for me be­

Chris Donnelly!The Observer 
cause I haven't fenced people outside of the United States. ent story. Nowosielski will not realize that these fencers are "I'm keeping in mind that be representing the United heatable.'' anyone can be beaten at a given States at all but will represent Nowosielski, however, in­
Sox may get dome

time. I'm really excited about Canada, for which he qualified jured his back in New York the tournament." to fence at a Canadian tourna­right before the NCAAs, and his Associated Press that would replace the sched­Barreda should fence well at ment earlier in the year. prospective performance in the uled fall 1989 completion date. 
the tournament, as her number This is Nowosielski's fourth Junior Worlds has come into ST. PETERSBURG, FLA. A Dodge, however, refused totwo seeding will attest. Junior World Championships. question due to this injury. 
Florida Suncoast Dome con­answer questions about the"Anne is right now at the top His best finish to date has been Nowosielski is scheduled to tractor has been asked to draw White Sox, whose owners areof her game," said men's head 26th in 1985. compete on Friday morning at up contingency plans to ac­seeking a new stadium incoach Mike DeCicco. "In the past I was working 8 a.m. and Barreda's opening celerate construction of the Chicago but have beenLeszek Nowosielski, mean-, to get out of the first round," round is slated for Saturday 

while, has a completely differ-said Nowosielski. "But now I morning at 8 a.m. at the JACC. baseball stadium the Chicago frustrated by a lack of progress 


Rock 'n' Roll Animals From !I
RECORDS 
Seven Vocalists Five Percussionists
BIG 
No Guitars No Stopping Them
PIG 
BONK 
Includes "Breakaway ·· Hungry Town.· !!· Boy Wonder" 

SP6-5185 
Globe Of Frogs 
The #1 album at College radio from Robyn Hitchcock and The Egyptians 

Available at: 
Tracks 1631 Edison Roads South Bend 
White Sox are considering as a future home. 
Rick Dodge, the assistant city manager involved in the effort to bring the American League team to Florida, has confirmed that officials are eyeing an April 1989 opening toward a replacement for aging Comiskey Park. 
Zipperly Hardage As­sociates, the consultant super­vising the Florida Suncoast Dome project, is studyig the feasibility and cost of finishing the 43,000-seat stadium early. 
This is an event that will be occuring throughout Easter
Fencers 
Break, ending on Monday,
continued from page 16 
April4. Competition admission "Six of the fencers who com­for the elimination rounds is peted in the 1979 Junior Worlds free, and for the finals there have won Olympic medals will be a small charge ($2 since." adults and $1 students) for 
seeing Olympic-quality fen­
z z 'Z z z z :;o: z z z 
cing. ~ ~ DeCicco hopes that the stu­s ~ dents will show an interest in s the event. "Student involve­
Shoot 
s ment is one of having an oppor­~ s tunity to meet with and ex­
s 
Poets 
s change camaraderie with kids s internationally. I want our stu­s s dents to be aware of the fact 
s and 
s s that these fencers will be here. s "My concern is that the stu­
s
Pubs..
s dents from other countries in­
s teract well with the student
s 
s body as they have the last two s s times. I don't want it to be a 
s 
... castles and ~ hand-holding, big-brother type 
s 
choirs. s of thing. I hope we can take ad­s ~ vantage of whatever chemistry 
Learn documentary 
s s exists. It usually works out
development, video 
very well." 
s production. scripting, 
s s 
direc:ting, and editing for 
Festivities begin tomorrow
television in Ireland and ~ 
~ 
~ with elimination rounds of ~ 
Wales. Work with 
professionals from the ~ men's foil at 8 a.m. Sabre and s BBC. lnsh and Welsh TV ~ epee will have elimination ~ On Trinity College rounds on Friday and Sunday s at 8 a.m., respectively, and the 
campus. College Credit. ~ women's foil elimination will 
~ ~ 
be on Saturday morning at the s same time.
~ s s 
Anglo-American s The final rounds will be at 
); 
Workshops s 7:30 p.m., consisting of men's s foil, men's sabre, and women's 
12 East 86 St.# 408 
s ~ foil, on Friday, Saturday, and
New York. NY 10028 
Sunday, respectively. Epee
s 212·737·1559 
s finals will be at 1 p.m. on Mon­
s ~
212·971-9682 
day and closing ceremonies , " will be at 3 p.m. 


page 14 

Macon heads list of top AP freshmen 
Associated Press 
Temple's Mark Macon, who led his class in scoring, and Jay Edwards of Indiana, who rallied the Hoosiers to a strong Big Ten finish, headed The AP all-Freshmen Team announced Tuesday. 
Top rebounder Kenny Miller of Loyola of Chicago, Livingston Chatman of Florida and Dennis Scott of Georgia Tech were also named to the team which was selected by a 
nationwide  panel  of  
sportswriters  and  
broadcasters.  
Macon  finished  the  season  

with a team-leading 20.6 scoring average while grab­bing 5.7 rebounds and handing out 2.9 assists per game as the Owls achieved their first No. 1 ranking. 
"Without question he is one of the most consistent basket­ball players I've ever been as­sociated with," Temple Coach John Chaney said Tuesday. "What he did for Temple was raise the level of excellence here as no one had ever done as a freshman both on and off the court." 
Chaney said Macon's huge contribution to the Owls' suc­cess wasn't limited to what happened during games. 
"We knew that he had a chance to be a great, great player in his first year. He had already shown that,'' Chaney said. "But it was his overall character, on and off the court, that lifted us to a level never reached before in the history of the university." 
Edwards, who was third in the Big Ten in scoring at 19.2 per game, was the player that turned Indiana's season around. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 16 
Manning. 
The rest of the day was marked by an occasional close game and several blowouts characteristic of the early­round weeding-out process of Bookstore Basketball. In other games: Possible Skank snuffed out The Young Fresh Fellows, 21-7; Gimme Some Jazz, ...Yeah, Some Jazz, Man danced all over 4 Handsome Dudes and an Ugly Slob, 21-13; Frankie Valley and the Four Seasons spiked Punt, Pass, and Kick, 21-19; Some teams 
proved poor predictors of their own abilities as We're Pathetic So You Better Not Lose humiliated at least one op­ponent, disposing of Stone Pony, Steve Clysdale,... 21-15; and You Got a Bye trounced Solid Frustration, 21-5. 
It was canine combat as Dogged by the Steering Com­mittee pounded Lucky Dog-­Crunchy, Meaty, 21-8; Mali­cious Prosecution ruled over Where's the Justice, 21-6; and 4 Varsity Athletes and a G(r)eek wore out We Are Shirts, 21-6. 
Religious enthusiasts did not fare well yesterday as Preemo and the Squankers nailed the Five Apostles, 21-15; and the Five Disciples of Dan Gerlach were steamed by St. Michael's Shrinks Your Underwear, 21­
12. The Fun Bunch mashed 3 Couch Potatoes, A Physics God and 1 Tense Individual, 21-10. 
The Hoosiers were 1-4 in con­ference play when Coach Bob Knight inserted Edwards in the starting lineup and they rallied to finish with an 11-7 Big Ten record. 
Edwards finished with an overall scoring average of 15.6 and had a high game of 36 in a victory over Minnesota. 
"It's not just Jay's scoring," Knight said. "He's an excellent passer and may be our best de­fensive player." 
Miller, a 6-foot-9, 225­pounder, is the first freshman to ever lead the nation in rebounding as he grabbed 13.6 per game. 
Miller, who averaged 14.7 points per game also set a school record for field goal percentage, .595, which is easily explained by his 59 dunks in 29 games. 
"What makes Kenny such an excellent rebounder is that he's an explosive jumper," Loyola Coach Gene Sullivan said Tues­day. "He got 26 and 22 his first two games in an unbel~veable start. He knew no freshman had ever led the nation so he gave it an extra effort to get them at the end of the season." 
Chatman, 6-8 and 235, averaged 12.6 points and 6.4 rebounds, finishing just behind 7-2 Dwayne Schintzius who led the team at 6.5. 
He made 98 of 208 3-point at­tempts, setting Atlantic Coast Conference marks for number 
made per game and accuracy 

as well as setting a conference / _ JA A...., A J rl/\record for assists by a fresh-!!!! (.).J~I~~1 1 
• 

~~~~~~~___, i DOLLAR IMPORTS : : SCREWDRIVER 75t : 
tT~ • : 
• 75¢. DRAFT : LONG ISLAND ICED TEA 
i
: '1.75 
• HEY ••• 
WE'RE C.\.OSEO TM&S WEE:I<E~O 
1-\A.V& It\ GRE"T EASTERl 

Wednesday, March 30, 1988

The Observer 
tiCfifi Tournament 

**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
1. 
REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially recognized organization on campus. 

2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 

3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 

4. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 


DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Student Center 
Kansas State 
Kansas Tem le 
Duke 
Temple's Mark Macon (left) led the balloting In the Associated Press' all-Freshmen basketball 
PLEASE 

• 

Toke a lifesaving 
:

Red Cross CPR course. :
+American Red Cross 
Arizona 
AP Pnoto 
team Tuesday. A related story appears at left. Wednesday, March 30, 1988 The Observer page 15 


Comics The Daily Crossword 
Bloom County 
Bloom County 
ZOI?K5Te/N t (}(/!? EIH?ffl Klf?NflPU 
7HI?Iiii~N5 ro 
5tlli (/5 RJI( 1/N/.IIWR/t. 8F?AIN rRAN5f/.AN17N&l
\ ' 
Bloom County 
tJeFOI?€ We PfiT Ot/1? CI/PTIVE TH/?01/GH THe PI?OCE55 Ule CIIU 
··&ePHIII?PTIZfi770N, • MY C()UM&~ WIU ~Xf't-f/IN 
THe Pf?OC:C{J()K£... 
~/ 
. ~ 
Bloom County 
Bloom County 
Calvin and Hobbes 
C~L\JI~ niE ELEPtif>..N.T Wfl..t-IDERS 1\1£ f...rR\Cl\N Pli\IN. 
WE tY/fJ5T 1HINK OF A Lc55-1l?flN5­HAZfii?/?OI/.5 1?€V6"1?5E EX?ei?!MeNT Hl5 81?11/N. 
1.111/Jit-trr-Wt6e.. 
\ 

~&ePHIIfWTWmo~/! FI~T IW TIIK£: A H&llt.THY, IF NOT fl'II?TICVt.IIKt. YMll7VI?€, El/f?.THt.IN& !JKIIIN... 
~T fiVE TDNS, ~E IS n\E LARGEST LJ\\--.1\) M~MMi\l! 
IM &CWNII stNI? YOGI!? 

U/1/Jit.ITY PI?EMIIIMJ KI&HT INTO OKJJ/T.(/ £VEN IFI HIM! 7lJ llr7 IT WITH lit-VIS' .7 IJI?fi!N/ He Wl/5 A f'fi'~Y t£VU-H~fi/JE!? Gf/Y IN MOST 
liN/? 7HEN 7711?# Hllt.F OF IT 1?1/KK€1?... M81NEI?, NII5T!I5R, MOI?e (JNf'K€/JICTII8t.Y
eMOnON!It.. 
1-\\S I)£AFEN\NG CALL S\if>..TIERS n\E E.A-.Rl'I­~OONI~G TAA!'\QIJILITi! 

Berke Breathed 
Berke Breathed 
FOK60T 1?/CK WPf/TH/5 Glif'HIIKPT. 15YE8KOW5 81/CKON,
I l[ 
. 
~ 

-
-.......: 

Berke Breathed 
CHILL OfJT. E!THE!{. 
WilY IT'5 FATAL. 
I 

Berke Breathed 
Berke Breathed 
Bill Watterson 
ACROSS 1 Thai currency 5 Seductive 
women 10 Reps. 14 Norse god 15 Arab prince 16 Scarce 17 Endure 18 Columbus' 
ship 20 Elec. measure 21 Alphabet run 22 Monastery 
head 23 Malarial lever 25 Three wise 
men 27 Animal shelter 29 Hull growth 33 Inventor Howe 34 Seed cover 35 Decay 36 Thanks -1 37 Obstinate 38 Befit 39 Sesame 40 Besmirches © 1988 Tribune Media Services, l'lC. 
03/30/88
41 Br. county All Rights Reserved 42 Marine mammals 6 Amo, amas, ­44 Bestirs 7 Carte 45 Before: pre!. 8 Dog or cat 46 -Boleyn 9 Sp. lady: abbr. 47 Smart 10 "Lawrence 50 Sharpen of-" 52 Health resort 11 Dress 55 Ill-fated 12 Music combo airship 13 Chair 58 Wearing 19 -cum laude footwear 21 Regrets 59 Medicinal 24 Pesky bug plant 25 Dominoes 60 Ger. city 26 Pretentious 61 Anger 27 "Endymlon" 62 Repair poet 63 Certain eager 28 "Dallas" name 64 Unobstructed 29 Ship's time signals 


DOWN 30 Vacation 40 Scorch 1 Gaucho vessel 41 Sound 
weapon 31 Longest river measure 2 Man In Fr. 43 Went ashore 3 "Treasure 32 Cigar ends 44 Forest man 
Island" ship 34 Fr. historian 47 Fraud 4 Explosive 37 Italy's shape 48 Floor cover 5 Ship 38 Avoid 49 Privy to 
Far Side 
50 Huge mau 
51 Heraldic band 
53 North or 
South 
54 Arab city 
56 Rink org. 
57 Bleat 
58 Theatre sign 
Gary Larson 
• 






Sports 
Wednesday, March 30, 1988

page 16 
Bookstore rolls on despite showers 
By PETE SKIKO up his team's bitter reaction to Sports Writer the loss. 
"Sure, they had the shooting 

Trying to play basketball in and the inside game," said the rain--dribbling through Wholihan, who went oh-for­puddles and passing what feels three on the day, "but we had like a greasy piglet--is not nec­the cuter fans." essarily that easy to do. Strategic Frottage found it 
If you don't think so, ask hard to get going against The some of yesterday's Bookstore Mad Latin Lover and His Fel­Basketball participants. low Danki, and ended up drop­
"It (the rain) can totally neu­ping a 21-10 decision. Guard tralize your outside shooting Greg Brown of the Frottage game," said Paul Christmann, tried to analyze his team's in­whose team, Gik, Mook, and ability to put it all together. 
-Three Other Guys Afraid of "They did a pretty good job Showers, went on to defeat The shutting down our inside Prudish Ones, 21-9. "Even ifwe game," said Brown, "then they had a decent outside shooting proceeded to shut down our out­game." side game, and they pretty The precipitation during yes­much shut down our transition terday's action, the first games game. Outside of those three of the Round of 512, ranged things, we felt real comfortable from a drizzle to a steady pour, with the way we played." making for lower-than-average But the ultimate mark of shooting percentages and futility was reached when War higher-than-average skinned Pigs, riding oh-for-29 shooting, knee totals. The rainy Tuesday came up with the big goose egg kept pace with the various against Red Death a'nd the other forms of weather (snow, Jammin' Provosts. wind) experienced by "We usually have one every Bookstore players since the year," said Tournament Com­beginning of the tournament. missioner Mike Manning. "It was pretty pathetic." Gik, Mook, etc. were 'led' by Manning, a sophomore in his the seven-of-21 shooting of Paul first year of running the tourn­Greenewalt and the six points ament, doesn't have any com­and 11 rebounds of Matt Uhoda. plaints so far. In other action yesterday, 5 "Despite the poor weather, Guys With a Suburban White everything seems to be going Pump Fake dumped 4 Guys pretty much on schedule," said Provost. Pete Sklko details Tuesday's games at and a Short Dork, 21-7. The left. Dork, John Wholihan, summed see BOOKSTORE, page 14 
Notre Dame to host Junior Fencing Championships 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO United States, Italy, the tional Fencing Federation the tournament, and only the munity was wonderful, and the Sports Writer U.S.S.R., France, Hungary, president Rolland Boitelle are fifth time it has been held in whole tournament ran smooth­Poland, West Germany and scheduled to attend. Admission the Western Hemisphere. ly." 
Beginning t<Jday, Notre China, but there also will be is free. The two years it had been Considered the biggest tourn­Dame will serve as host and newcomers to the competition. ''This tournament was de­previously held at Notre Dame ament in the world for junior site of the 39th annual Junior They include Bulgaria, Bolivia, signed to accommodate young were in 1971 and 1979, and when fencers, the Junior Worlds is World Fencing Champion­East Germany, Kuwait, men and women across the plans for this year's tourna­restricted to fencers under the ships, in which 28 countries and Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South globe who can fence interna­ment fell through for the age of 20. The men will be com­over 200 athletes will compete. Korea, and Yugoslavia. tionally," said 27th-year fen­original site, the tournament peting in the foil, sabre, and 
Over 150 officials, coaches Opening ceremonies are cing coach and tournament directors called DeCicco. epee weapons, and the women and trainers have arrived from scheduled for tomorrow night director Mike DeCicco. "I hope will be competing in foil. all over the world, and the. at 7:30 p.m. in the basketball that the success of this tourna­"The job that was done in "Many of the fencers that scope of this tournament is ex­arena of the JACC. Indiana ment is of the same caliber as 1979 hopefully was the factor will be competing are Olympic traordinary. Governor Robert Orr, U.S. we've had in the past." that made them come back," contenders," said DeCicco. 
Not only will the usual fen­Olympic Committee president Indeed, this is the third time said DeCicco. "The welcome cing powers attend, such as the Robert Helmick and Interna-Notre Dame has played host to from the students and the com-see FENCERS, page 13 

• 
Irish should strive for basketball greatness 
March Madness stretches into April this weekend for its mighty conclusion as the four survivors con­verge on Kansas City. 
Today's exciting adventure called Irish Items will take a look at the Final Four and then something that has nothing to do with that, the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
Oklahoma, Arizona, Duke and Kansas have all managed to dodge the proverbial bullets unleashed by upset-minded squads like Rhode Island, Seton Hall, Villanova and Vanderbilt, and now waltz into Kansas City for the pinnacle of the season. 
Perhaps now that his team is in the bigtime, Lute Olsen can stop crying about how the Pac-10 is the Rodney Dangerfield of the NCAA, garnering no respect from the eastern establishment. Maybe if the rest of the conference didn't play like Rodney Dangerfield he might have a case. 
The conference that does have bragging rights this year is the Big Eight, who placed two teams (Oklahoma, Kansas) in the Final Four and three (Kansas St.) in the elite eight. 
The Sooners and Wildcats will put on a great show, but you've got to wonder if they can come back out and do it again on Monday night, especially against a talented team like Duke. 
Meanwhile Danny Manning is wearing his size 15EEE Cinderella slippers and desperately wants to go out a winner before he takes his case to the NBA. The Jayhawks will win the hearts of underdog lovers, and they've already won the heart of this underdog lover, for the simple reason I got stuck with them in my room's tournament pool. 
Brian 
O'Gara 
-.~· ' . :
•

Assistant Sports Editor 
Now on to the Irish, whose only affiliation with the Final Four is that they played Kansas and Duke, and maybe Coach Phelps has a ticket. 
There have been all kinds of complaints about Digger and coaching and gamestyle and schedule, as evidenced by some of the Dump Digger themes of Bookstore teams. 
But perhaps the top obstacle between a Notre Dame men's basketball team and a trip to the Final Four is attitude and expectation. No one should question the dedication of the players or the coach­ing staff--they put in long hours to improve their game. However it seems that in recent years the word coming out of the Joyce ACC has indicated that Notre Dame will settle for less than the best. Winning 20 games and making the NCAA Tourna­ment are two wonderful goals which the Irish have succeeded in reaching for four years running. But that is not all there is to the big-time college bas­ketball which Notre Dame is undoubtedly a part of. 
Why shouldn't Coach Phelps and his team be thinking Final Four? It has the name and prestige to gain access to the nation's best players while no conference affiliation allows the Irish to face the best teams in the country. 
On last week's 'Digger Phelps Show,' the Coach commented that the Irish won 20 games, made the Tournament and thus, "had a good year." There aren't too many people on this campus who accept that. 
We have been taught throughout our academic career to think big, to set our goals high and to strive to reach them. The goal of the Notre Dame basketball team and its head coach ought to be the Final Four, or even consistent appearances in the Sweet 16. The attitude that 'anything beyond 20 wins and a bid is gravy' is simply all wet. 


