-------------------------------.....-----­
Sunny and cold Partly
IACCENT: Professors' Night 
sunny and colder today. High in the middle 30s. Low 20 to 25. Mostly cloudy and much colder tomorrrow. High

IVIEWPOINT: Cheering can be abusive 
25 to 30. 



THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1988 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Soviet United Way surpasses

leader's 
$3.4M goal


new plan 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
• Staff Reporter 

1s peace 
The United Way of St. Joseph County has raised a record

Associated Press 
amount of money on its way to surpassing its 1988 campaign ..
NEW YORK-Mikhail Gor­goal of $3,405,000, said cam­

bachev gave new momentum 1 
paign Chairman Father

to arms control talks Wednes­day with his announcement William Beauchamp, Univer­1 
sity executive vice president. 

that the Red Army would 
1
Beauchamp said he could not reduce its forces by 10 percent 

l
give an exact figure for the 1988and pull 50,000 of its troops, campaign because all plegdesalong with tanks and cannons, are not in yet. The final tallyfrom Eastern Europe. 

U.S. analysts have been will be announced at the local United Way chapter's meeting 
predicting such a move for in January, he said. 
months, believing it could fur­"I anticipate that this will be ther boost Gorbachev's the most successful cam­popularity in the West and al­paign," Beauchamp said. 
low him to divert needed funds All of the money raisedfrom the military to the domes­during the campaign will be all­tic sector. 
ocated to 36 United WayGorbachev praised U.S. wil­
Not cloudy all day 
agencies which service the

lingness to discuss arms reduc­tions and said that "the Soviet A brief and passing break in the clouds early in the 
see UNITED, page 7
afternoon allowed the sun to shine through, creating
see SOVIET, page 7 
a rare view across St. Joseph's Lake. Scenes like 


ND administration responds to report on residentiality 
By CHRISTINE WALSH for coeducational housing, Said Tyson, "We are follow­Although Siegfried and Knott According to Tyson, Staff Reporter graduate and transfer student ing through (with the recom­halls opened after the task Siegfried and Knott were not residences, and the overall phi­mendations) as time and finan­force made it's recomendation considered for coeducational 
Mter reviewing the report by losophy and spirit of residen­cial constraints allow ... Right for coresidential housing, the housing because "the officers the Task Force on Residen­tiality at Notre Dame. now it's mostly financial." University did not consider the felt at this time it was not a tiality, the officers of the Uni­Father David Tyson, vice With regards to the task option for the new dorms. direction to go in." 

The Observer I Mike Ury 
this may bring some peace to students who get worked up over the approach of final exams. 
versity of Notre Dame have president of Student Mfairs, force's recommendations con­Said Firth, "The plans for Notre Dame wants to have issued their response to the said that overall, the Univer­cerning the implementation of Siegfried and Knott had not coeducational housing, said task force's recommendations. sity was very pleased with the coresidential housing, the offi­been finalized," though the Tyson, but it's a matter of 
Among the issues addressed task force's recommendations, cers said that such an option opening of the new dorms "ac­working out the actual details. by the task force chaired by and would work toward imple­would not be approved at this companied an increase in the Said Tyson, "We need to know 
Director of Residence Life Dr. menting them as soon as pos­time, though the option would number of women enrolled at 
see REACTION, page 5
Ann Firth were the prospects sible. be periodically reviewed. the university." 
Security asks students to leave cars in D-2 lot 
Observer Staff Report guarantees but we want to try something to reduce break­
Notre Dame Security has re­ins." quested that students who will be leaving their cars on The idea for putting student campus over Christmas break cars into one lot during an aca­move them to the D-2 lot before demic break was first sugges­they leave, said Phil Johnson, ted by a Security officer and assistant director of security. has been under discussion for 
Keeping student vehicles in some time, Johnson said. one lot will facilitate Security's Although the D-2 lot will be patrolling and may reduce van­locked during the break, stu­dalism over the break, Johnson dents may retrieve their cars said. at any time by contacting se­
"If you have a car we curity. The gates will be strongly recommend you park reopened on Jan. 15 or Jan. 16, it in D-2," he said. "We can't Johnson said. guarantee cars will not be bro­ken into. We are going to close "A significant number (of the gate and lock D-2 on students) will leave their cars December 18. It's easier to con­on campus for the break. We centrate patrolling one lot are confident the D-2 lot will rather than police all the other hold all the cars," Johnson said. lots," Johnson said. Security will arrange other 
"We're anxious to try this. parking locations for student We think it will be a positive vehicles if necessary, he step," he said. "We make no added. 


'88 ND alumnus dies in Chicago 
By REGIS COCCIA night. Three doctors in the employed by Northwestern Senior Staff Reporter hospital who visited him Mutual, a life insurance were Notre Dame company in Northfield, Ill. 
Patrick McManus, the graduates, she said. Pat's He lived in Chicago with two Notre Dame alumnus who brother David is a Notre Notre Dame graduates. was in a coma in a Chicago Dame freshman. McManus was a member hospital since Friday night, of the men's varsity swim died Wednesday between 3 team for four years and and 4 p.m., hospital officials served as co-captain last said. year. Senior swimmer Brian 
McManus, 23, a 1988 Vogel, a friend of McManus, graduate of the University, said 10 swimmers visited was hit by a car after exiting McManus in the hospital a cab in downtown Chicago Sunday night. early Friday morning. He "He was a wonderful, remained in a coma after loyal, loving person," said surgery in Illinois Masonic swimming coach coach Tim Medical Center until he was Welsh, who knew McManus
t
pronounced dead Wednes­for four years. "He loved
Patrick McManus
day afternoon. Notre Dame and he loved 
Even at his death, Pat McManus was given the swimming. He was the best McManus was surrounded last rites by Chicago priest captain I had in 15 years of by members of the Notre Father Raymond Klees, a coaching. Dame family. His mother, former assistant rector in "What made him a great Terry McManus, said she Cavanaugh Hall who captain was his constant was at his bedside when he received an MBA from desire to serve the team. He expired. McManus' family Notre Dame several years was extremely supportive of and a group of his friends ago. every person on the team," from Notre Dame were at Originally f10m Jenkin­
see McMANUS, page 5
the hospital Wednesday town, Pa., McManus was 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, December 8, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN
IN BRIEF 

Rock 'n' roll pioneer Roy Orbison suffered a 
heart attack and died. He was 52, and was enjoying a 
comeback with a new generation of fans. The Grammy 
Award-winning Orbison, famed for hits like "Oh, Pretty 
Woman," "Only the Lonely" and "Cryin'," died shortly 
before midnight Tuesday at Hendersonville Hospital, 
where he had been taken by ambulance, said Melanie 
Lamb, a spokeswoman for the suburban Nashville 
hospital. A singer, guitarist and songwriter who was 
instantly recognizable by his ever-present sunglasses and 
dark attire set off by an ebony pompadour, Orbison had 
27 straight records on the charts during his heyday in the 
early 1960s. But his biggest success came with "Oh, Pretty 
Woman," which sold more than 7 million copies in 1964. 
A cover version later was a hit for Van Halen. -Associated 
Press 
A rosary for Pat McManus will be held today at 9:10 
p.m. in the Siegfried Hall chapel, immediately preceding the 9:30 Mass. -The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
Today is the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, a holy day of obligation. Masses will be held at 11:30 a.m. and 5 
p.m in Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer 
Lafortune Student Center will be open until 3 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during finals week. -The Obser­ver 
Christmas Nazz, an informal Christmas show in its 12th season, will take place this Saturday night at 8 p.m. in the basement of Keenan Hall. The show will include traditional and original Christmas carols such as "Twas the Night Before Christmas," and a special reading of "How the Grinch Stole Christmas." Admission is free. For more information call Tom Varnum at 283-3267. -The Ob­server 
Financial Aid Forms are being distributed this week to all students who applied for financial aid this year. The FAF must be completed by Feb 28 for the 1989-'90 academic year. Extra FAFs are available in the Financial Aid Of­fice. -The Observer 
Winter bike storage will be conducted today and tomorrow from noon to 3 p.m. at Gate 14 of the Notre Dame Stadium. Security encourages everyone to put bikes in storage and avoid thefts. -The Observer 
Rock the House in a battle with the other DJ's on campus. Call Laurenteen at 283-4968 or Tracy at 283-3879 for more information. -The Observer 
Iceberg Debates is looking for students to represent their halls in a debate serious on exciting social issues in January and Februrary. All interested students should con­tact their hall presidents by Friday, Dec. 9. Off-campus students should call Maeve at 283-2569. -The Observer 
Talent Needed for the 1989 BCAF Talent Show. Please get your acts together and contact Tracy at 283-3879 or Agnes at 283-4011 to register. The show will take placel Saturday, Feb. 11, 1989. -The Observer 
Senior Ski Trip sign-ups are today from 4 to 7 p.m. in the Senior class office, second floor of LaFortune. Please sign up in groups of 4, 6, or 8 with your deposit. -The Observer 
A memorial service for John M. Duggan, former president of Saint Mary's College, will be held Tuesday, December 13, at 5 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto on the College campus. The Rev. David J. Murphy will preside. -The Observer 



-Ih-e-Obse.-~~-­
-------A.~Y.:.~&.----
Detign EditOT . ..... ..... Annette Rowland Viewpoint Layout... ..... Laura Manzi Deaign A.,utant .............. Beth Peterson Accent Editor ..... ... Tricia Chambers Typetellera ...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Accent Copy Editor ... Michelle Beringer ............................................. Mike Kolar Accent Designer... . .. .. Mike Conway News Editor.................... Colleen Cronin Typut ......... .............. . .... Will Zamer ........................................... Regis Coccia ........................................ Diane Bradley Copy Editor.. .. ................ Paul Jackson ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey Sporlt Copy EditOT ................ Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ..... ... .... Maura Reidy Viewpoint Copy EditOT ..... Brian Conway Photographer... ........ Mike Ury 
n. OWin• (USPS ~99 2-<1000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina cum &Dd vacatioa periods. n.ow.n. is published by the students of the University of Notre DuDe &Dd Saint Muy'l Collqc. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year <U' per semester) by writina n.ow.n., P.O. Box Q, Notre DuDe, lndiua 46~56. 
'AI~ Ia • member of n. ~... r.-. All reproduo:Uoa riahts .u 
---s. 
Correction 
Acomic strip in Tuesday's Observer was misidentified as Jerks. The strip should have been labelled Buzz McFlattop. 
Impress 




Just say no to mocking personal problems 
Are a person's personal problems something to mock? Apparently so, if you judge from the behavior Chris Murphyof a large part of the Notre Dame student sec­
Editor-in-Chief
tion at the ND-Indiana game Tuesday night. The student section greeted I.U. guard Jay Edwards with a resounding chorus of "Just Say ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

No" in light of Edwards' "substance abuse" 
r this summer. Our fans found it amusing to remind Edwards of this incident each time he touched the ball. It was a few students who started this humiliating chant and all except for an un­noticeable few had joined in by the end. 
This behavior is rude, insensitive and makes light of a serious problem that many people battle. It shows our fans' ignorance of Jay Ed­wards' personal problems and reflects poorly on Notre Dame as a Catholic university. 
At a university so often referred to as the "Notre Dame community," our fans mocked a college basketball player's personal problem. The act is nothing less than hypocritical. 
Though the crisis of a drug or alcohol problem isn't something to underemphasize, Edwards' return to Indiana University and the basketball team is something to applaud. It certainly is ~~~ o~ 'H-\e ~otl2.t. DA~ Ct;MMVNK'i •••
not to be ridiculed by Notre Dame students, most of whom have never faced the severity of drug or alcohol abuse. wards owe to you that allows you to humiliate 
Edwards' personal problem is unique. Ed­him? Jay Edwards is a tremendous young wards approached Bobby Knight and told his player who uses the game to express his talents, coach that he might have a problem with not expose his personal weaknesses. "substance abuse." Edwards, with Knight's ap­Notre Dame's athletic program is a special proval, then entered a ten day rehabilitation one. We have combined winning on the court, program in Indianapolis. He returned to school or on the fields, with a concern for the players' upon completion of the program and caught up futures. It took a long time to build this tradi­in his classes in order to rejoin the Hoosier tion. Actions like those of Tuesday night, squad. however, destroy our unique stand in college 
Unlike others who have lost the battle with athletics. drugs or alcohol, Edwards did not take some­The fans at Duke or Syracuse may have one's life in a car accident, test positive on a treated Edwards with the same insensitivity team drug test or wind up taking his own life. that we did. But, Notre Dame's tradition as a He alone took the responsibility to face his prob­Catholic university with an athletic program lem. stressing excellence on and off the field brings 
But, how many students knew anything be­us praise and a unique place in college athletics. side the mere association between Edwards and It is a tradition upheld by each of our coaches a rehabilitation clinic? A handful of fans would and players. be a pretty fair guess. Unfortunately, it's not being upheld by our 
Those fans who joined the chant should ex­fans. amine what damage they have done. Would any And it's even more unfortunate that the Notre of you want your personal problems chanted Dame fans did not demonstrate the same repeatedly so you, your family and friends maturity Jay Edwards showed in handling his could never put them aside? What does Jay Ed-problem. 
*********************************** 
* * 
* * 

E Shenanigans E 
* * 

EChristmas Concert E * * 
* *
* * 
* ******************************* * 
* *
* * 
* *
* !* 
; Tonight! 
!* December 8th !* * * 
! 7:30 p.m. ! 
* *
! Washington Hall ! * * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* ******************************* * 
* * 
: * General Admission *! * Complimentary Tickets * 
* * 
* *
* !*
! Contact any group member * for tickets or come by door * * before concerti * 
* *
* *
*********************************** 
--------~­
Thursday, December 8, 1988 The Observer page 3 


Earthquake shakes Soviets, leaves thousands homeless 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The strongest earthquake to hit the Soviet Caucasus region in 80 years flattened buildings Wednesday and left thousands homeless. One Soviet official said he received unconfirmed reports of more than 200 people killed. 
A scientist at the seismic sta­tion in Yerevan, capital of the republic of Armenia, said he visited the disaster area andes­timated the death toll probably would run into the thousands. But he stressed the estimate was unofficial and declined to give his name. 
Official Soviet news media did not give any casualty fig­ures. Armenia was the hardest­hit area in the Caucasus. 
Deputy duty officer Lyova Oganisyan at the Interior Min­istry in Armenia said uncon­firmed witness reports to police indicated more than 200 people had been killed. 
An official of the Armenian government's office in Mos­cow, who would not give his name, said the number of casualties was "a very big fig­ure." 
The quake, centered near the Soviet-Turkish border, killed at least four people and caused extensive damage in eastern Turkey, authorities said. 
The U.S. geological Survey in Golden, Colo., said the quake, centered south of the Georgian capital of Tblisi, occurred at 
11:41 a.m. (2:41a.m. EST) and registered 6.9 on the Richter scale. A quake of that magni­tude is capable of causing widespread, heavy damage. 
The tremor, followed by a moderate aftershock, struck a region in the Soviet Union 
SMC Board of Governance reviews leadership chance 
By MARY BETH BLAJDA News Staff 
Information about leader­ship opportunities was an­nounced at Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
Julie Parrish, student body president, informed the board about Leadership America, a national leadership develop­ment opportunity to be held this summer. 
Eligible applicants must have completed their junior year of studies by June 9, 1989 l\Ccording to Parrish. 
"This is an excellent oppor­tunity for those considering leadership positions next year. The objective of this ten week program is to prepare students to accept major leadership re­sponsibilities earlier in their careers and to handle them more effectively," said Par­rish. 
In other business, the board evaluated its accomplishments of the semester. "I'm proud of BOG and the excellent job they have done. We've made our­selves visible to the students, sought after student input and have become sensitive to stu­dent needs," said Parrish. 
already wracked by months of ethnic violence between Ar­menians and Azerbaijanis. 
President Mikhail Gorbac­hev, who was visiting the United States, called the earthquake "a grave tragedy." 
State-run television, in an un­usually prompt and detailed report from the scene, showed film of crumbled buildings in Kirovakan, Armenia's third largest city, and in Spitak, a regional center of Armenia. 
Workers were shown picking up huge slabs of concrete amid the rubble. Gold-colored cur­tains and beds protruded from the side of a building where a wall once stood. In one dra­matic shot, a man put his hands over his head in grief as he stood amid a collapsed build­ing. 
"The spontaneous elements didn't spare one-story or mul-
SECURITY BEAT 
WED., NOV. 30 
9:40 p.m. An off -campus student reported that several pieces of musical equipment were stolen from the Alumni Senior Club sometime during the evening. The loss is estimated at $675.00. 
THURS., DEC. 1 
7:55 p.m. A University employee reported that his car was struck while parked in the D-1 Lot between 7:00 and 7:50p.m. Damage is estimated at $500.00. 
8:26 p.m. A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported that a bag of hockey equipment was stolen from the hallway outside of his room sometime between 3:30p.m. on 11/22 and the morning of 11/28. His loss is estimated at $495.00. 
FRI., DEC. 2 
10:53 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported that her wallet and its contents were stolen from the second floor of the Hesburgh Library or Law Library between 6:05 and 
10:00 p.m. on 12/1. Her loss is $10.00. 
Physics equations and Freudian principles are nice, but if you really want to get somewhere, call Midway Airlines~ 
Midway can take you home or on vacation on an inexpensive and convenient flight. Just hop the Midway Connectional> to Chicago Midway Airport and connect to over 50 U.S. cities, plus.the Bahamas and Virgin Islands. 
So study the above information. Then call Midway at 1-800-621-5700, or call a travel agent. 

tistory buildings," a TV corre­spondent said on the evening broadcast. 
Cars on the streets were crushed by falling concrete. 
The correspondent said thousands were homeless and that "there are casualties, in­jured," but neither he nor So­viet news reports gave figures. 
"In several regions of Ar­menia there is significant damage, deaths and injuries," 
SUN., DEC. 4 

12:27 a.m. A Pennsylvania resident was issued a citaion by Notre Dame Police for traveling 55 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Rd. 
2:17 a.m. A Mishawaka resident was arrested by Notre Dame Security for driving under the influence of alcohol on Juniper Rd. The subject was transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
MON., DEC. 5 

5:00 p.m. Two residents of Carroll Hall reported that their vehicles were broken into while parked in the D-6 Lot between 
3:30 and 6:00 p.m. Total loss is estimated at $600.00. 
1:50 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported that his wallet and watch were stolen from the racquetball courts in the JACC between I :15 and I :50 p.m. His loss 
•stimated at $200.00. 
TUES., DEC. 6 

2:59 a.m. A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported that his vehicle had been vandalized while parked in the D-1 Lot sometime between 2:00 and 2:50 a.m. Damage estimates are unknown. 
WE DIVIDE OUR PROGRAM SO YOU CAN KEEP YOURS TOGETHER. 
If you're in college and you are wondering where the money is going to come from , look into the Army Reserve's Alternate Training Program. It works this way: One summer, you take Basic Training and the next summer, your specific skill training at an Army School. You'll earn at least $1200 for Basic and even more for your skill training. You can serve at an Army Reserve unit near your college, usually training one weekend a month plus two weeks Annual Training. You'll earn over $80 per weekend to start. On top of !hat, if you qualify, the 
Montgomery Gl Bill gives you up to $5,040 for college. 
Interested? 
Call SGT Craig Cheek 
at 234-4187 
Be All You Can Be. 
ARMY 


The Observer/Chris Donnelly 
Tass said. "The cities of Leninakan, Kirovakan and also several others especially suf­fered." 
Officials said communica­tions had been cut off with Leninakan, near where the quake was centered. The city of 200,000 people is located 100 miles northwest of Yerevan and close to the Soviet-Turkish border. , 
1 1 
1 
10:50 a.m. A Planner Hall resident 1 reported that his vehicle had been broken 
1 
into while parked in the D-2 Lot sometime between 9:30 p.m. on 12/4 and I 0:45 a.m. on 12/6 . ..flis loss is estimated at $450.00. 
~ 
WED., DEC. 7 

2:55 a.m. Three Notre Dame students observed six suspicious persons breaking 
j

into vehicles in the D-2 Lot. The suspects fled when confronted by the students. The students then contacted Notre Dame Security who arrived to make a report of the incident. Upon further investigation of the area. all of the stolen items were recovered. While still in the D-2 Lot, one of the suspects was positvely identified by the students as he was walking on Bulla Rd. The suspect was brought in for questioning and later released by Notre Dame Security. 
Crime of the Week 
The CRIME OF THE WEEK is a break-in at St. Edward's Hall Foodsales sometime between 10 p.m. on 11/18/88 and 5 p.m. on 11/19/88. Security reports that unknown person or persons entered the Foodsales area by tearing the window screen and then forcing open the window. The thieves took various food items and soft drinks. Crime Stoppers wants to know who is responsible for this break-in and will pay a cash reward up to $300 for information leading to their apprehension. If you have information about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You don't have to give your name and you'll be eligible for a cash reward. 


Something worth studying. 
Atlanta Bloomington/Normal Boston Champaign/Urbana Chicago (Midway) Cleveland Columbus Dallas/Ft. Worth Denver Des Moines Dubuque Ft. Lauderdale FtMyers Green Bay Jacksonville 
Kansas City Las Vegas Madison Memphis Miami Milwaukee MplsJSt. Paul Moline Nassau New Orleans New York (La Guardia) Omaha Orlando Oshkosh (Eff.10/30taa) Peoria Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Rockford, IL St. Croix St. Petersburg (Eff.12117t88) St. Thomas Sarasota Springfield, IL Tampa Traverse City Washington, DC (National) Waterloo West Palm Beach 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IM -21 ILL-22 Love. 
\ 
Dad




i ...,
' 
... 
& 
... /-~ ,:...,. 
~t<.L.L' 

Mom 
--~-~-------­

page 4 The Observer Thursday, December 8, 1988 
Our Holiday Promotion Is aReal Catch 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

data 

systems 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES OW 
Modell W/3.5"floppy  Mode/20 W/20Mb hard drive  Mode/40 w/40Mb hard drive  
3.5"floppy  3.5"jloppy  
w/ZMM-149 Amber or White Phospher monitor  
Reg.  $1599  $1899  $2299  
Now  $1499  $1799  $2199  
w/ZCM-1390 RGB Analog color monitor  
Reg.  $1799  $2099  $2499  
Now  $1699  $1999  $2399  
w/ZCM-1490 FI'M color monitor  
Reg.  $1899  $2199  $2599  
Now  $1849  $2149  $2549  
Offer good thru Dec. 31, 1988  


MS·Wi~dows and MS·~S .An! ft'gi•tered trademarks of Microsoft Corp. Special pricing ofler good only on purchases directly through Zenith Contact(s) listed above by students., faculty and staff for their own use. No other d1.counta apply. Limit one penonal computer and one monitor per individual in any lZ·month period. Prices subject to change without notice. © 1988, Zenith Dab Syalrma 
Thursday, December 8, 1988 
The Observer pageS 
Hesburgh explains changes in USSR as 'all Gorbachev' 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND-The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, retrred president of the University of Notre Dame, says his Soviet hosts invited him to celebrate Mass during a recent trip to Moscow--an event unthinkable a few years ago. 
"It's very open, compared to what it was," said Hesburgh. "It's all (Soviet leader Mik­hail) Gorbachev." 
Hesburgh, who retrred last 

year after 35 years as Notre 
Dame's president, visited the 
Soviet Union in September and 
plans another trip early next 
year.
Since Gorbachev assumed 

power, promoting policies of openness and a restructuring of Soviet society, Soviet hosts have freely discussed once­forbidden topics with foreign visitors, Hesburgh said. 
"I have had conversations in Moscow that, if I had had them three years ago, I would have been thrown in jail," he told the South Bend Tribune. 
Over dinner with highly placed Soviet politicians, Res­burgh listened as the officials freely admitted that 45,000 troops were in Cuba during the 1962 missile crisis, not 10,000 of­ficially acknowledged at the time. 
Hesburgh, a priest in the Holy Cross order, vividly re­members being asked during 


Appointment of Quayle's successor near for Orr 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Gov. Robert Orr plans to choose a Senate successor to Vice President-elect Dan Quayle by Christmas, an Orr aide said Wednesday. 
Orr press secretary Dollyne Pettingill described the retir­ing two-term governor as "get­ting closer and closer" to making a decision. 
"He did say this morning he hopes to make the decision by Christmas," Pettingill said Wednesday. 
She also denied a published report that there is a short list of likely choices for the Senate post. 
The Fort Wayne Journal­Gazette, quoting unidentified Republican sources, reported the top candidates for Quayle's job are 4th District U.S. Rep. Dan Coats; Mitchell E. Daniels, a former aide to Pres­ident Reagan who currently is helping with Quayle's transi­tion; Indianapolis Mayor William Hudnut; and former Secretary of State Edwin Sim­cox. 
R. Mark Lubbers, former Orr aide who remains close to the governor, told the Journal­Gazette that the decision is ex-his most recent visit to celebrate Mass in the private chapel of the Moscow arch­bishop of the Russian Orthodox Church. 
Soviet members of the Foun­dation for the Survival and De­velopment of Humanity, an in­ternation~l peace group, joined in the Mass and appeared to appyove of his mention of the .Russian church's 1,000-year history. 
The church has publicly cel­ebrated the anniversary, en­couraged · by Gorbachev's greater tolerance of religion and recognition of the signifi­cant role of human rights, Res­burgh said. 


pected within a week to 10 days. However, Pettingill said, "I still look for it to be longer than that." 
Rumors that Coats would succeed Quayle swept through Indianapolis and Fort Wayne on Tuesday, but Coats aide Curt Smith said the governor had not contacted the Fort Wayne congressman. 
other Republicans said Orr wants Daniels for the post and has been waiting for·a response from him, the Fort Wayne newspaper said. 
Lubbers, who works with Daniels at the Hudson Institute in Indianapolis, said Daniels told him late Tuesday that no such offer had been made. 
Daniels, citing family reasons, asked Orr earlier to remove his name from the list of those being considered. However, Quayle aide Jeff Nes­
further. Tyson said, "A few years ago 

Reaction 
there was even a Student Sen­ate resolution to decide which
continued from page 1 
dorms would go co-ed first. .. to what extent students would They chose Keenan and Stan­
un­
ad-
I 
I 

bit and several others said 
Daniels, who leads the In­
dianapolis think-tank, received 
pressure over the weekend to 
reconsider. Two Republicans said some of that pressure came from Lubbers. 
Daniels, who was ill Wednes­day, could not be reached for comment. 
dressed the matter of housing 
for graduate and transfer stu­
dents. Said Tyson, ''Graduate stu­
dent housing is taking top 
priority." 

McManus 
continued from page 1 

Welsh said. "He was hap­piest when he was doing things that served Notre Dame." 
An all-night prayer vigil for McManus began Wed­nesday night at 10 in Alumni Hall and will culminate in a memorial Mass in the hall's chapel at 5 p.m. today, said Father Andre Leveille, drrector of campus ministry. 
Leveille said he was a per­sonal friend of McManus, who lived in Alumni for three years and made many friends there. "What the kids in the hall are saying is 
true. (Pat) was full of life. He loved life, especially swimming. He was soft­spoken and real sincere. He was really a fine guy," Leveille said. 
"Pat's life was short but, boy, he put a lot in it," Leveille said. "He touched a lot of people." 
Monsignor Peter Cruise, pastor of McManus' home parish, Saint James Roman Catholic Church, where McManus was an altar boy and active in the parish, remembered Pat as "a good boy. When he was home on vacation he was in church every Sunday and he always stopped in to say hello." 
McManus is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur McManus and two brothers, Arthur, 24, and David, 18. 
McManus' wake will be this weekend at Joseph McGoldrick Funeral Home in Jenkintown, Pa., and a fu­neral Mass will be cele­brated Monday or Tuesday morning at Saint James Church in Elkins Park, Pa. 
Microcomputer Lab Consultants User Services in the Office of University Computing is seeking applicants for positions as assistant consultants in its campus microcomputer labs for the second semester. All Students with microcomputer hardware and software experience (especially IBM, Zenith, other PC compatible and Apple Macintosh) are encouraged to apply. Interested persons should fill out an application form in the Office of University Computing Library (room 3 of the Computing Center I Math Building) between the hours of 8:00 -12:00 and 1:00-5:00 Monday through Friday. You will be contacted for an interview m January so please respond as soon as possible.  be interested." ford to go co-ed, and proposed Tyson added that the univer­that Breen-Phillips become a sity has some idea about stu­male dorm ... Needless to say, dents' reactions to coeduca­three dorms were very tional housing, but officials happy (with the resolution)." want to investigate the matter The task force also r--·-·--·..-....-~..-....-....-....-....-....-....-....-.-..-....-..-~.._.._..,I SPRittG BREAK? I· I Mexico from $275I Yeah, we're going back again! And this I 1 time we're hitting the Bahamas from $299 J I .1 Don't wa1t! Make plans now! L-~----~2~~~~~------J  

Thuwaysto cffDmte  
...._~~ wrlstforClnistrrns.  
\ \  

 December 12-14th MON-TUES-WED North and South Dining Halls 5:00-6:30pm For the low ,low price of: $26.95!  
AcMuiks suggests1he  We accept CASH or CHECK for this great Christmas gift!  
choire on 1helight  The Notre Dame SPORTSWATCH Made by the manufacturers of SWATCH  


~------~-----­
Thursday, December 8, 1988 The Observer page 7 

The Observer I Mike Ury
Two days of jazz 
Junior Scott Tallarida and the rest of the Monday Night Jazz Band entertain a Washington Hall crowd. The Tuesday Night Jazz Band also performed, and warmed up the crowd as they opened the show. 



Soviet 
continued from page 1 
leadership has decided to dem­onstrate once again its readi­ness to reinforce this healthy process not only in words but in deeds," 
"Within the next two years, their numerical strength will be reduced by 500,000 men," he said near the end of a lengthy address to the U.N. general As­sembly. The Soviet Armed Forces total about 5.6 million men and women. 
"The numbers of conven­tional armaments will also be substantially reduced," he said. "This will be done unilat­erally." 
Gorbachev said the Soviets would pull 50,000 troops out of East Germany, Czechos­lovakia and Hungary, reducing by about 10 percent the number of forward-deployed Red Army forces arrayed against the North Atlantic Treaty Organi­zation. 
President Reagan, after he and President-elect Bush met over lunch with the Soviet leader, said "I heartily ap­prove" of the Kremlin troop decision. 
Conventional arms negotia­tions will continue, said Reagan, and "we should cer­tainly adjust CU.S. force levels in Europe) if it would turn out that this left us with a superi­ority." 
Gorbachev and his aides had long been hinting at such a withdrawal, but had been op­posed by top Soviet generals notably Marshal Serge1 Akhromeyev, chief of staff of the Soviet Armed Forces. 
Besides the troop reductions, Gorbachev said the Red Army would be shedding 10,000 tanks, 8,500 artillery systems and 800 combat aircraft from forward public, but they appeared to fall short of redressing the 2.5-1 edge the Warsaw Pact holds over NATO in conventional· armies. 
deployment  in  Eastern  
Europe. Exact  d etails  of  the  
withdrawals  were  not  made  


"There still will be a very sig­nificant asymmetry so there is still a lot of negotiating to do," Secretary of State George Shultz told reporters at a news conference following the luncheon. 
Nevertheless, Gorbachev's proposals appeared to go a long way toward addressing U.S. concerns over the heavy con­centration of Soviet forces near the borders of Western Europe. 
A reduction in Soviet forces could increase pressure in Congress to withdraw some of the more than 300,000 U.S. forces stationed in West Ger­many. 
The action also should im­part new momentum to long­stalled talks to cut NATO and Warsaw Pact forces in Europe, negotiations that have made virtually no progress in more than 14 years. 

United 
continued from page 1 
community, Beauchamp said. Each county has a separate and independent United Way, so the money stays in the im­mediate community. 
"The Notre Dame commu­nity did very well, ra1smg $200,000, the second highest amount in the county," said Beauchamp. 
Sophomore Melissa Smith served as student body execu­tive chairperson for the United Way campaign. She said that $4,400 was raised through dorm collections and special events. 
The campus goal of $8,000 was not reached, Smith said, but added, "I'm pretty happy, everything went very well and a lot more money was raised than in past years." 
Smith was responsible for co­ordinating all of the fundrais­ing drives in the dorms and spe­cial events such as the Quarter Mile and the Civil War. 
As chairman, Beauchamp spent an estimated 400 hours on the United Way campaign drive in the county. Beginning in February, he said, "My job was to organize and coordinate the campaign." 


commerials and advertised on the radio. 

Ask yourfolks for the presentwith a future. 
Your parenh kruJY.-you"re serious about having fun. Now show them how serious you are about making the most of your studies. Ask for the IBM' Personal Syslem/2 ." 
The IBM PS/2' is the perfe~o:t wmpanion for everything from late-night studying 10 last-minute revisions. II helps you organiLe your notes. write and revise papers. produce high-quality graphics 10 make all your work look sharper. and more. And you'll even save money with a great student discount. 
The IBM PS/2 could be your answer to getting more out of college. And still leave you lime to have fun. 
EPC is located in the Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25, Computing Center (219) 239-7477 
In addition to chairing an ex­ective committee called the ''Campaign Cabinet," Beau­champ guided more than 2,000 volunteers through fundrais­ing. 
Beauchamp said his duties included attending weekly meetings, goal setting and planning, training sessions with volunteers, visiting large companies, and phoning indi­viduals, said Beauchamp. He also appeared in television 
"I'm responsible for the campaign, my job is the cam­paign," said Beauchamp, "I'm very pleased with the cam­paign and fully expect that we raised more than ever." 
Beauchamp said a reason for his selection as chairman could be that "(University Presi­dent) Father Malloy and I have made overtures about becom­ing more involved with the community." 

Despite setbacks such as cuts in employees of major compan­ies and hospitals and plant closing that accounted for a lot of funds raised last year, the campaign still was a success, said Beauchamp. 
"I think the volunteers should be commended for run­ning a sound campaign despite quantitative problems," said Beauchamp. 
Beauchamp said his job is not done until outstanding funds are in, the final report is com­pleted, and the "big check" is presented at the United Way annual meeting. 
He anticipates being a part of the campaign next year as a member of the board, but not chairman. The position of chairman was like having a part-time job. 
"It was very rewarding to help raise money for service agencies that improve the quality of life for so many," said Beauchamp. 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 

TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
OON'T PAY 1<: FOR YOUR 
KAPLAN COURSE. YOURS 
CAN BE FREE! REALLY. 
GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, NCLEX, 
GRE, BAR REVIEW & more. KAPLAN. THE WORLD'S LEADER IN TEST PREP. CALL FOR INFORMATION NOW! Kaplan Educational Center 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 

,
PHONE 219/272-4135 

j 



Viewpoint
pageS 

P.O. Box Q 
Student behavior lacks sensitivity 
Dear Editor: 
I guess I'm a little confused. I thought I was attending a fine Catholic institu­tion in Notre Dame. Last night, I atten­ded a basketball game, Notre Dame vs. Indiana. I expected to leave the game with a victory, feeling the same way I felt during the football season after a win, proud to be a part of the spirit of Notre Dame. 
This expectation floundered when the cheering of the student body reached an all-time low. I have listened to Notre Dame students yell obscenities at op­ponents and felt disgusted at this be­havior, but last night the Notre Dame student body went far beyond shouting general obscenities. They shouted, "Just say no." It was rumored, maybe 

"r it was fact, that an IU player had 
r 
recently left drug rehabilitation. 
I cannot imagine what it must be like to experience the personal agony and humiliation which one must experience when attempting to withdraw from drugs. This pain is so personal and "our" student body took advantage of what must be one of the most sensitive, painful memories of that young player's life. 

I left the arena wondering what being a student at Notre Dame was all about. We shout about being number one, the best school in the nation. Last night, I think we showed another dimension of student life at Notre Dame. Who are we to judge the mistakes of another? I expected a little bit more from Notre Dame. 
Brooke Campbell Pasquerilla West Dec. 7, 1988 

Handicapped access needs improvement 
Dear Editor: 
A few weeks ago the River City Rol­lers, a local wheelchair athletic group, decided to play football in the gym in­stead of our weekly basketball game. The only problem was, no one knew the rules for wheelchair football--but we managed. Mterwards I volunteered to try to find a rulebook. 
I thought if any place in the country knows about football, it is Notre Dame, so I went to the Hesburgh Library. Luckily, the car with no permit which 
Doonesbury 
was occupying two handicapped reserve parking spaces did not stay there too long. Unluckily, the automatic door at the main entrance was not working, but I am strong enough to open it alone, I suppose a person with arthritis, or an elderly person on crutches or using a walker could just stand out in the cold until a polite stu­dent happened along. 
For a University that is supposed to have a good collection of sports books, I was quite surprised--and disap­pointed. There is only one book on wheelchair sports, basketball, and I have already read it, obtained from an­other library. According to the library computer, there is not one other book about wheelchair sports; nothing on racing, swimming, tennis, track and field, sit down volleyball, or football. 
I did find a computer reference to another pertinent book though, about wheelchairs and architectural bar­riers. Ironically, or perhaps according­ly, that book is not in the main library, but in the architecture library, which is not accessible by wheelchair. 
Joe Ringer South Bend, IN Dec. 6, 1988 

Students object to larger classes 
Dear Editor: 

If you came to Notre Dame expecting close interaction with faculty in a class­room environment stimulated by inter­active discussions rather than passive lectures, you should be aware that the quality of our education is in jeopardy. The '87/88 Bulletin of Information boasts at 12: 1 studentfaculty ratio. However, we all know from experience that only a handful of upper level courses offer this luxury. In many de­partments, and especially in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, student enroll­ment is increasing without a proportional increase in faculty. Clear­ly, Notre Dame cannot provide the best possible education without close stu­dentfaculty interaction on all levels. 
There are many possible explana­tions for administrative decisions con­cerning these matters; yet, they all ig­nore obvious solutions and, more importantly, the priorities of the Notre Dame students. Simple budget con­straints are the most possible explana­tion. However, tuition will increase by 9 percent next year, and there seems to be a new building everywhere you look. Notre Dame has enjoyed great success in recent fund-raising efforts. Our budget decisions simply need to place more emphasis on hiring addi­tional faculty. 
A major role of a university is cer­tainly the publishing of scholarly re­search. Nationwide ratings emphasize this role. In theory, the University could allow professors to teach fewer but larger classes so they can devote more time to research and publish. We believe that this tradeoff will have a negative effect on the quality of class­room education. 
Interaction between students and professors. both in and out of the class­room, is vital to academic life. This is especially true in Notre Dame's strong tradition of liberal arts. Increasing the enrollment of classes which are already over-sized precludes studentfaculty in­teraction and forces the professor to a lecture format, an expedient solution at best. 
We do not intend to condemn the ad­ministration. We simply want to bring this important issue to the attention of the student body. Although individual faculty members may be powerless to correct this problem, we as students must be aware of this trend at Notre Dame and publicly demand that more attention be paid to our classroom en­vironment. Richard Tho'rnburgh Sorin Hall Gary Francesconi Alumni Hall 
Hunger Coalition raises awareness 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame Hunger Coalition was founded in 1974 by a group of stu­dents who were concerned about the tragedy of world hunger and refused to accept it as an inevitable or un­avoidable problem. These concerns are still with the student members of the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition as they work to educate the Notre Dame community on the issues relating to world hunger and to raise awareness of our responsibilities as Christians to work to eliminate hunger. 
This past semester has brought several successes to the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. First, student participation in the Wednesday Lunch Fast increased over the last three 
Garry Trudeau 


Thursday, December 8, 1988 
semesters. Another change associated with the Wednesday Lunch Fast was the Coalition's decision to review the projects which it had funded in the past. This review led to the decision to replace two projects. Dr. Denis Goulet spoke regarding his personal experi­ence with Martillo Chico, one of the new projects. Martillo Chico is a slum of nearly 5,000 inhabitants on the outskirts of a resort city in Argentina. Leaving the countryside for the promise of jobs, these poeple have found instead a swampy area with open sewers, a public school system which denies their children access because they cannot af­ford the required school supplies, an economy with 5,000 percent inflation and massive unemployment. 
The money from the Wednesday Lunch Fast will support a lunch pro­gram for the starving children, increas­ing the number of meals being served from 60 a day to nearly 200. Projects through IDEX, the International Devel­opment Exchange, will also receive Lunch Fast funds for the first time. IDEX directs the money to Budokomi, Kenya, to purchase oxen to provide for land cultivation feeding nearly 15 families. The Chol-Chol Foundation, providing loans and technical assis­tance to those in the rural areas of Chile, and the Holy Cross Associates family garden project in Santiago, Chile, are two self-help projects the Coalition will continue to fund. 
The World Hunger Coalition con­tinues to fulfill their purpose of raising awareness through other programs as well. Sponsoring outside speakers pro­vides the opportunity to hear those with personal experience in working over­seas. In the past year the members of the World Hunger Coalition have heard people who have lived in Chile, Argen­tina, India, and South Mrica. Prepar­ing meals at the St. Augustine soup kitchen and the llew Homeless Shelter downtown allows the members to see the hunger which is present within our community. In an attempt to further address the hunger here in South Bend, the Coalition organized the funding and distribution of 43 Thanksgiving Food Baskets to local families. Anyone inter­ested in the World Hunger Coalition should come to the Center for Social Concerns' Activities Night in January to receive more information. 
Ron Burkhart Center for Social Concerns Dec. 4, 1988 
~------------------------~--~ 
Quote of the Day 
"The world is a book, and those who do not travel, read only a page." 
St. Augustine 
-~e-Obse~~--Editorial Board Operations Board
--=-1.-=ll --...--~-=·=-'-'&.---·­
Editor-in-Chief. .. .............. Chris Murphy Business Manager .. .. ......... John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor .......... ...................Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ............ Molly Killen News Editor ...................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager... .. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor. .. .............. Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager... .. ... Bernadette Shilts 
The Observer is the i11depe11dent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor............. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... Matt Slaughter Systems Manager . . .. ..... Mark Ridgeway Notre Dame du Lac ~ Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor........ .. .. .. .. .. ... . .. . .. .... Marty Strasen Controller ....................................... Todd Hardiman the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .. . .. .. . .. .... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager... .. ......... Marga Bruns possible. Unaigned ediloliell represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........ ................ Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the vi-s of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................... ...... Michael Moran IP8C8 is avalWlte to all members of the community and the free eKpression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 

Accent
Thursday, December 8, 1988 
page 9 

P.E. promotes student-faculty relations 
LAURA LINDNER accent writer 
M 
any students believe pro­fessors are intimidat­ing ... but not Notre Dame pro­fessors. This was the verdict from Pasquerilla Hall East following its third annual Pro­fessors' Night last Thursday. Students came away from the event with some great re­sources and an even better understanding of what Notre Dame is all about--faculty commitment and student openness. 
P.E.'s Professors' Night has evolved into a new dorm tradition unlike that of any other residence hall on campus. It grew out of a stu­dent desire to interact with professors in a different set­ting and to allow those same professors to experience stu­dent life outside the class­room. 
Residents of P.E. had the opportunity to invite any pro­fessor, and as many profes­sors, as they liked. This year, 42 professors were invited, and according to the event's chairperson Nancy Snyder, "All the professors' responses to the invitations were very enthusiastic." 


The event began with a Glee Club performance of a Christmas carol medley, and was followed by music played by a string quartet. The P.E. residents and Notre Dame professors easily managed to Photo courtNy of Slater Jorla Binder 
get acquainted and discussed 
Professors and Pasquerllla Hall East students discuss life af Notre Dame In the hall's study lounge. 

life at Notre Dame for the 
duration of the event. 
Over the years many stu­dents have complained about inadequate faculty-student relations on campus, and 
P.E. certainly is helping to bridge that gap. "In many classes, professors aren't able to get to know their students due to large class sizes, so by inviting a professor, students could introduce themselves outside of the classroom and hopefully make a lasting im­pression for future refer­ence," said Snyder. 
The number of professors in attendance and the scope of disciplinary representation made the event worthwhile for all involved. Students had a chance to meet their friends' professors and others they had heard about but had never met. Professors had the opportunity to meet other pro­fessors in different depart­ments. 
Mter meeting a professor she was not acquainted with, one student commented, "I am definitely going to have to take one of his classes before I graduate." That just about sums up the success of P.E.'s Professors' Night. Given the enthusiastic responses from both students and professors about the event, it is inevi­table that other residence halls will soon be following P.E.'s lead in establishing meaningful student-faculty relations. 



Perceptions of a B&B 
THERESA LOOMIS accent writer 
T 
he brown flowered cur­
tains don't match the 
maroon shag carpet, and both 
clash with the bedspread's 
pink and violet rosettes ; lace 
crocheted doilies hang over 
the arms of a well-worn 
armchair; and only an auto­
matic hot pot (for tea, of 
course) suggests the exis­
tence of the modern world in 
a room full of outdated furni­
ture. 
Interior decorators of the 
world might disagree, but 
nothing can beat the 
Grandma's house atmosphere 
of a good Bed and Breakfast 
Inn. The proprietors take 
guests under their wing, the 
blankets are thick, and the 
breakfasts are huge. 
Unfortunately, my first night in Dublin shattered this comfortable image that my previous experiences had es­tablished. I was alone. It was dark. It was cold. I had rid­den the bus from the airport, asked directions three times, walked seven blocks with bags which were getting heavier and heavier, and found the door that belonged to the scribbled address crinkled in my pocket. 
"This can't be it," I thought to my'self as I rang the bell. After all, someone had rec­ommended the place to me. It was even in the "Let's Go Ireland" book--"Lectrim 
Calvin and Hobbes 
House B&B, 34 Blessington Street, one block past the false teeth repair shop." 
The neighborhood was quiet (for a Friday night) but sort of shady. I was wondering if this was like one of those areas near home that you know better than to venture into by yourself. Also, Bles­sington Street is so short that the city planners figured it didn't need lights. 
I had some hope after seeing a few nicely painted doors but, facing number 34, I could see that it wasn't nicely painted, had no sign, and the light was off. 
An older woman answered the door, went back to her television program, and or­dered a young man (who I assumed to be her son) to give me a key and show me my room. 
"Don't worry if you hear some moaning and slamming of doors next door," he told me. "It's just a kind of crazy deaf and dumb man who doesn't know what he's doing. Breakfast is between eight and ten.'' 
"OK. Thanks," I said with a weak smile. Then I bolted the door. Several weekends ago my roommates told me they had found the B&B ver­sion of the Bates Motel in a small town north of Oxford. I now know they were mistaken--! found it. 
As I wrote in my journal, I discovered a lack of heat within my room. My hands became numb. I then decided the sooner I went to sleep, the sooner it would all be over. I flung back the sheets. No bugs. (I thought.) Finding only one blanket on my "cot," I piled on Ute layers. I wasn't sure if I'd escape frostbite, so I even put on the gloves. 
As I lay there, several questions ran through my head: Were my next-door neighbor and I the only "guests"? Would breakfast save this setup from my total condemnation? Were "Nor­man" and "Mother" still downstairs watching TV? Would everything look differ­ent in the morning? Would I be alive to see it? Did the reviewers for "Let's Go" have warped senses of humor? 
Well, in the morning Mot­her didn't look so intimidat­ing. The shrine in the living room to the Blessed Virgin really eased my nerves, as did the several holy pictures on the wall. The scrambled eggs were soggy, but the toast wasn't bad. Neverthe­less, I checked out, took my bags, and walked. 
Blessington Street eventu­ally turns into O'Connell Street. Just down the road, I found the Sinclair House B&B where, once again, the bedspreads had pink flowers. 
Bill Watterson 

----. 
-
-
___j 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, December 8, 1988 
•

American basketball now catching on 1n Canada 
Associated Press 
ONTARlO-Basketball is hot in Canada and promising to get hotter. 
A growing number of Canadian youths are caught in the excitement and glamour of NCAA and NBA telecasts from the United States, and the lucrative college scholarships and pot of gold offered by the 
NBA.  
These  youngsters  have  
spurned the  national sport  - 
hockey.  


With hockey played more on a club level, basketball has be­come a popular sport in the high schools. The general level of play, although still below schools in the United States, is improving, said Terry Thompson, the coach at Oak­wood Collegiate Institute in Toronto. 
And Canadians are increas­ingly attracting the interest of collegiate recruiters from the United States. 
One of Thompson's kids, 6­foot-3 guard Paris Dryden, is a feshman at the University of New Hampshire this year, while other Canadians have been recruited in recent years by schools such as UCLA, mic­higan State, Syracuse, Duke, Villanova, Maine, Boston U., providence, St. Joseph of Pennsylvania, Stetson, Fair­leigh Dickinson and Hardin Simmons. 
Michigan State, probably like most maJor basketball powers, only recruits. in Canada when it hears of a par­ticular player, Coa~h Jud Heathcote said. "We've got a coach or two who lets us know." 
But schools such as Niagara, St. Bonaventure and Canisius consider Toronto part of their recruiting area and usually have at least one Canadian on their rosters. 
Now more scouts from similar second-tier Division I schools in the United States travel north of the border. 
"When I first started here 20 years ago, I directed summer camps at Arcadia, Nova Scotia, for two or three sum­mers," said Skip Chappelle, who retired from coaching at the University of Maine this year. "There were very few, if any, Division I prospects. Now, we have two on our team. For schools like us, that (Canada) would be a prime area." 

In the last five or 10 years, there has been a "tremendous jump" in recruiting from U.S. colleges, said Jack Donohue, a long-time coach in the United States. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m.
Classifieds until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 

NOTICES  ~W_A_N_TE_D~~  ~~__TIC_K_H_S~  JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIP IS COMINGI Sign up nowll 2-4 Tu,Wed.Th  NORTH JERSEY CLUB! NORTH JIORSEY CLUB! NORTH JERSEY CLUB I  All, SMILE! FERN, DUE  TO  THE  FACT  TliAT  I  
HAPPY HOLIDAYS  DON'T KNOW ITALIAN, I WILL HAVE  
ACADEMIC9USINESS TYPING 237-111411  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrtn, All lletda. Free InfO. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04-Corona Del Mer, CA 92625  BUYING FIESTA BOWL TOPS PAID 800-28&-2461.  AND HAPPY NEW YEAR AND HAPPY FIESTA BOWL LOVE, AMY (COPY CENTER)  The Notre Dame Club of North Jeraey will be hoatlng a Fleate Bowl Party Monday, Jen. 2, beginning et 4 pm (geme time Ia 5 pm EST) In the Pre" Lounge of Glent Stadium In the New  TO REPLY IN THE ONE UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE. SEE ME IN PERSON FOR THE ANSWER. JUDY  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU MRS. COKER, 233-70011. Typist-Experienced, Fast-Letter Quality­Will plck up-258-0369 SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY CARTRIDGES ESPECIALLY FOOT­BALL. THIS MIGHT NOT SEEM IMPOR· TANT, BUT BELIEVE ME, IT IS. IF YOU, OR ANYONE YOU KNOW CAN HELP, THE MONETARY REWARD WILL BE GREAT. CALL 277-6224. I LOST/FOUND I LOST: e gold-leced Timex welch burgendy bend, Ramen nu,_.le  DESPERATELY NEED AIDE TO COLORADO FOR CHRISTMAS. CAN SHARE GAS AND DRIVING. DAYS FLEXIBLE. CAN PRO­VIDE STOPOVER FOR THOSE GOING FARTHER WEST. CALL PETE AT 283­4601. We need the following NO football memorabilia: Any GA stubs from any horne games: Pictures of "Nobody Leaves NO II f" banner during Miami game: Photos of Hogs playing in mud on field after Penn State. We will pay you for these items. Please call Chris at 283­3169 or Pete at 283-4601. SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just off N.D.  WANTED: 1 OR 2 FIESTA BOWL TIX BY NO ALUM, $125 EA. (415) 781-9570 EXT. 4132 DAYS OR EVENING (COLLECT) AT (415) 45&-9240. AIRLINE TICKET S.B TO SARASOTA,FL 12>23118-1!,3.89 ROUND TRIP $250 X7575 Need 4 FIESTA Bowl nx. Will pay. 259-2512 5-10 P.M. I need 2 Fiesta Bowl GA's. Call272-4223. FREE 2 tickets SoBd to Chicago to SanFran to Eugene,OR Dec.16. Pay for ad & they're yours. 277-5616  NOWRAPPINGPAPER ISH ERE II CHECK IT OUTI AT THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE I IT IS THE PERFECT GIFT FOR GIFTS! (not available the bookstore) THE ICEBERG DEBATES It interested in joining the OFF-CAMPUS DEBATE TEAM please call: 283-2569 I need 12 PORK-FACED SATAN T-shirts lor X-mas-Others maybe Call (912)-786­7358 p.m.  Jereey Meadowlande. All NO atudenta, their lemlllea, alumni end lrlenda ere cordlelly Invited. Over 250 lrtah aupporters attended e almller event held lor thll NO -USC geme end 1 good time w.. hlld by ell. Coat of $151n advance Include a bullet dinner. Further lnfonnetlon on thla evant can be obtained by ceiling the NO North Jereey Hottlne et 201-898-110021. Pl•ae meka check• payable to NO North Jereey Club and Hnd to: NO North Jersey Club ot1 Joe MecDoNnell, Prealdent 409 Center Street Wood-Ridge, NJ 07075 LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING YOU THEREII! GO IRISHII  HELPII I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTH FLA. FOR XMAS. WILL SHARE $ AND DRIVING. PLEASE CALL KEVIN x1540111 FIESTA BOWL 1111 BE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ACTION Ill Hotel rooms 1/4 mile from the stadium, right on the Arizona State campusl Close to golf and other fun desert activities. Only 3 rooms leftll Call 233-2888. KKKKKKKKKIMEAH. ITS OK TO STAY ON THE BOAT HAPPY 20TH FROM ALL YOUR WALSH BUDDIES. DAVE BROWN AND PAUL LINEHAN. YOU BOTH HAVE AWESOME HAIR  
Loet fete on 1t1.10 either neer  Ave. Ph# 233-2342  Broadcast News at SMC Carroll  Aud.  TOP 1 0 LEWIS SYR QUOTES  
LeMen"• ahuttle atop. on ahuttle or be­tween Meln Circle end South GREAT Mn11mentel velue. REWARD PLEASE cell Melt II 3610  Are you from the Detro~ Area and looking for a person to share the roadtrip to Tempe with for the game Well, call Kelley  Round Trip Hight from S. Bend to Mnnpls. call Pat II 1469  Dec. 6-8, $1 9&11 :15 Take a break and catch a movie Broad­cast News Carroll Aud $1 SMC Dec. 6-8  THANK YOU FOR THE PERSONAL! IT MADE MY DAY. NOW THAT I AM SMILING, MAY I ASK WHO THIS PER­SON IS THAT IS THINKING ABOUT MEl  10 Don't remind me in the morning. 9 I'll take your feetl 8 Here, put some vodka in it. 7 I'm not drunk: I'm intoxicated'  
at 11 1779. I'm willing to go and relurn on any date as long as it includes Jan 31  PERSONALS  at 9 & 11:15 SMC X-MAS  BAZAAR  all  week  in  RESPOND PRINCESS)  HERE!  MEG  (IRISH  6 Hm, this tastes like weak Sprite 5 Whore's your date? 4 I just have this incredible urge  
FOUND: Two jackets. (actually,these were tal<en accidentally by a lew intox­icated H.S. friends from Sr. bar the Sat. of Penn St. game.) Please call J.C. at 1001  Need a ride to D.C. and a merry ChriotmasiPiease help with first Call Mike x3574.Will share usual.  UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-8889 MATli TUTOR-234-3878.  LeMans 9-5 get your shopping done here. Are you going to SE Florida or vicinity for Christmas? II so, I can give you a  Sign ups for the D.C. club bus will Thurs. Dec. 8 in the pit of Ranner at 8PM. The bus will be leaving NO on Dec 16 and returning Jan 16. The cost of the bus is $80 round trip. If you have any question  to laughl 3 I lead, he follows. 2 Whore's my MAN? 1 He's so HOTI Thanx M,F,M.P.O,S,P,J, and esp. DAINI  
LOST: set of dorm and car keys on bud­weiser and N.D. class of '44 keyring. Please call X1661 LOST:Rhinestone nad<lace somewhere  Need ride back to NO from Florida on January 1. Call Brenda 239-6193 ........................... FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR  CLUB 23 Try the pool table or Engllah derta. 234-3541 hlag.  ride BOTH ways or one way BACK to Notre Dame il you can help share driving and gas$$. Please call283-2892 ASAP. GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID FRI. 12:15 PM at OOME STEPS  call Ed at II 1478 or Mike at II 1089 FOR SALE-ONE WAY PLANE TICKET from Newark to South Bend on Jan. 16­MUST SELL, best offer. Call Laura 284­5417.  Need Aide To PH ILLY for Break. Can leave Wed. 14. Call Dan 1765 HEY KIM Y.--WANT TO BECOME KIM K? I LOVE YOUI MERRY CHRISTMAS!'!  
between Knott hall, Morrissey hell, and 0-1 parking lot on Friday, Dec. 2. Please call if found-4959. FOUND: AT SENIOR FORMAL, very nice man's watch.Call x1347 or 277-6224 to identify.  2ND SEMESTER. PRIVATE ROOM IN 3 BR HOUSE. WALK TO NO. 234-4961 FOR DETAILS. Female graduate student seeks room­mate to share apt at Castle Point Apts for spring semester. Call Laura at 2899  PRAY TO ST. JUDE OF BUY/SELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY 90-250, SELL 125-400. AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE. THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE  Come to the lest vigil of aemeaterl I need ride to AKRON-CANTON.Can go after noon 12116.Will help with$$$ Call Eric 4147.  CLAIR DRULEY GOOD LUCK AT PURDUEI WE'LL MISS YOUIII THE QUAD  WHAT IS THE CHRISTMAS NAZZ? ll's a perfect study break Traditional and Original carols Christmas readings and.. THE GRINCH!!! Sat 12110 8pm Keenan Hall basement  
SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY CARTRIDGES, ESPECIALLY FOOT­BALL. THE IMPORTANCE OF FINDING THIS CANNOT BE OVERSTATED. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL 277­6224 FOR RENT HOUSE AVAILABLE 2ND SEMESTER AND 111§-90. WELL MAINTAINED, FURNISHED, SECURE. UP TO 5 BEDROOMS WASHERORYER.  for details. RIDERS NEEDED TO ORANGE & DUTCHESS CO. N.Y. AREA FOR X­MAS CALL LIZ X1511 I DESPERATELY need a round trip ride to Central NJ for break. Will pay big $$$. Call Jeff al 1895 Need rider to S. Louisiana area for break. Call Paul 2o59 · WANTED:MAGNAVOX ODESSEY CARTRIDGES PARTICULARLY FOOT­BALL. GOD WILL LOOK KINDLY UPON YOU IF YOU HELP. YOU'LL BE PAID,  aoo-n7-3287. MATEO'S SUB SHOP FREE DELIVERY 271-oSUB "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB" CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS DELIVERED TO YOUR SWEETIE Come In end chooH a atocklng, 1111 It with goodie• end top 11 with mlatletoel Let ua deliver It lor you anywhere on the Notre Dame or St. Mary'• campus. The Country Herveater  Put one foot in front of the other And soon you'll be walking 'cross the floor You put one foot in front of the other And soon you'll be walking out the door You never will get where you're goin' If you never get up on your feet Come on there's a good tail wind blowin' A fast walking man is hard to beat If you want to change your direcNon If your time of life is at hand Don't be the rule be the excepNon A good way to start is to stand  NEED RIDE TO CHICAGONORTHWEST SUBURB WED.14AFTER6PMWILLPAY$CALL MARIA 284-5410 RIDE NEEDED RIDE NEEDED TO MADISON OR MILWAUKEE FRIDAY 16 AFTERNOON PLEASE CALL ANNE 2114-5444 SMC OBSERVER PHOTOGRAPHERS THERE WILL BE A MEETING IN 311 McCANDLESS THURSDAY 12>11 7:00pm. ANYONE INTERESTED WEL­COMEIIIII!  FAMOUS P.E. SA SYA quotes: "You guys, I'm not gonna have a date!"-K 'K. where have you been I've been ready since 8:15"-T "We played JEOPAROY."­M "OK, so my date couldn't dance."-H "He IS so cool-llove your date--C "I think I'm in love"(with regards lo his body) "Have you seen our scissors?" "I had a great lime!" THANKS TO ALL THE GUYS WHO MADE THE EVENING SO SPE­CIALIII ........ ...... To NO MEN, Us "genuine females" are not so happy with you fakes either! You should at least say hi to yourdates Truly Discouraged ...............  
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RENT. 264-«11 0.  COMPETITIVE  TOO. CALL 277-6224 I need a ride to the SOUTHERN ILLINOIS area. Call Baba x2728  LaFortune Student Center basement Mon-Frt-12 noon-6:30 pm 239>6714  If 1 want to change the reflection I see In the mirror each morn You mean ff's just my election  ????? CALL SUSY X5444 ALICE  FOR SALE: Round tnp airiine ticket to Tempe from Ft.Wayne or Chicago through Denver. For Fiesta Bowl.  
PRIVATE  ROOM  AVAILABLE  IN  To vote for a chance to be reborn  $320 Call X2681  
LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE ON NO AVE. GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD. FOR INFO 25.7801 DAYS, 255-5852 EVENINGS.  FOR SALE  THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS TOUCH "REAL MISTLETOE"  Brought to you by the ND Chapter of the Christmas Special Fan Club  ALICE LOHRER I ALICE LOHRER TURNS 21 II  ........................ Doesn't that say something to you if you do not know what the word "pristine" means, Jimmy? You must be one of  
- ··•··•••························································ 3 bdrm house close to campils. New car· pet, paint, waHpaper, appliances. $500tno. plus dep. No pets. 289-0109. HOUSEMATE WANTED next aem: s150tnonth incl utiIs call TOM. 234-35>41 FEMALE STUDENT TO SHARE HOUSE with Notre Dame alumna. Eaay walking d1otance Notre Dame. Available I Janu­ary. $150 month, including util~ies. Phone: 232 0743. RENT HS FOR 2ND SEM. NEAR BRIDOETS. $425 MO PLUS UTILmES. 3 BDRMS, 2 BTl-IS. 234-4311. 1 OR 2 BDRM, 2ND STORY OUPLEX  CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CAU FOR FACTS TODAY. 1102-837-3401. EXT. 111. 1978 Ford LTD Wagon. Good Condition $925 or best offer. 684-4621. PLANE TICKET. ONE-WAY OR ROUND TRIP S.B. TO WHITE PLAINS,N.Y. f2114 RETURN 1117. CHEAPII CALL JIM AT 277-9956 ................................................................ IBM PC-DUAL FLOPPY DISK DRIVE, PRINTER, MONOCHROME MONITOR. 11400. AFTER II PM 2118-1238. MUST SELL-1976 Pontiac Grand Prix  The Country Hai'VMter LeFortune Student Center -nt Mon-Frt-12 noon-6:30 pm It you can decoreta beaketa & wneetha, I hllve e Job lor youl P,_.. contec:t Cerol et The Country Herve-. 239­11714. PIN• cell lor en eppol-t. TliE COUNTRY HARVESTER hlle the perlacl Chrtatmu gllte lor thoH ape­clef people In your life. Conveniently located In the LeFortune Student Cen­ter be-rn. Open Mon-Frl-12 noon-8:30pm. SENIOR SKI TRIP SIGNUPS DEC. 7 AND 8 IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE  My sanity hinges on going to TOLEOO OH area 1219 or 10.1 know we should be studying but there must be some one goin that way. 12034 Need ride to U New Vorl< lOr XU... Pleue cell VIc 30115 ROOMATE FOR SALE ATTENTION ell of you out there who could UM en elltnl hllnd •round the rootn, or eomeone to run erT11nda, clean, etc, etc..­hllve juat whllt you r...t Went to get the per1act xm... gilt lor that apeclel roomie? For e limited Ume only -hllve 1 healthy mele foe ule CHEAPI It lnterated p,.... cell II 3610 end uklor MR. EXTRAORDINARY,  ALICE LOHRER TURNS 21 DEC. 26 Move over Resa, give Alice some apace on the bathroom floor Ill -your pal, Christopher Need a ride to Philadelphi&North Jersey for Christmas break? Call Gerry at x1684 HEY VIN I'LL PROBABLY FIND OUT FIRST I MERRY CHRISTMAS! LOVE, MAR Kathy, Hey roomle,only one more week ol al nighters,gleeking, and late night phone calls from Chet and Ger. 1 kn we can do it. Remember, I'll be righ here.so Beeee Gooodl Love,  those sleazy people my mom warned me aboutI T~;;;:·~;~~·~·N~·~:.·;:"··~~~-~ next semester. Drink a few lor me, and maybe my halo won't be so shiny when I get back. I love you guys! Carrie Mii<E.FFiCiM..EFiiE·;:h;;;;i;;;·;~;·;;;v·~~-­tion at Theo's Sat. let me know ~ I can return the favorl Merry Christmas JACQUIE To the malajuoted neanderthal& who vi­ciously attacked the women of NO in yes­terday's personals: Take a lesson from some real men -­stop looking at every woman as a piece ol game. You'N have a much eaisier time keeping them as friends ................................................. .. Erinl Cheer Upll I still love you! And I'm  
APT. DOWNTOWN SO. BEND NEAR  AC,atereo,good condition.$700beat Call  FROM 4 TO 7 PM. OONT MISS OUTII  he REAUY lei  Lori  really going to miss you, when you leave,  
PARKS,  BUSINESS,  ON  BUS  UNE,  Jeff 3151  ~ just won't be the samel Can't waH to  
- QUIET STREET. NO PETS. $27MIO. PLUS UTIUTIES. LOTS OF STORAGE PLUS BASEMENT ACCESS. LEASE  Round trip ftight to PHEONIX from Chicago Midway 12128 to t-5. $300 or  VITO'S BARBERSHOP 4.50 HAIRCUTS  I DO NOT WANT A RIDE!  .......................;:~..E;;;;i·a·_........................  see you in Chicago and at the Fiesta BowlI luv,M  
REQ'D TliRU MAY '811. RENEWABLE  beat offer. Call II 2332 anytime  Walk-Ins Weloome  I DO NOT NEED TICKETS!  Pray, do tell H thy Juliet ol  
FOR ADD'L 12 MOS. PHONE 2~. APT. 1/.! MILE FROM CAMPUS. NEGOTIATE RENT:234-5782  HAVE 5 ROUND TRIP TICKETS TO FIESTA LEAVING DEC. 31­RETURNING JAN. 4 $300 ROUNDTRIP  Tony saya:"Never a Dull Mornenr 1523 Lincolnway West-S.B.  I DO NOT HAVE $$$1 but, You need to see TEN LITTLE INDIANS Brought to you  Twelfth Night loves thee truely K.K ......<Fiis·'-1~oo'NP.L.'o··~s·1ii'rooP.vi .....  To Mike Caponigro-I w88 so happy yto finally meet you Sat. night-l've been ad­miring you from alar II hope that someday  
CALL 1811 ASK FOR RODGER  by  (but is she a citizen ol  soon we can get together and gat better  
Roommate wanted to share 3 bedroom  1980  CHEVETTE,  CLEAN,  LOW  JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIPI Jan 27-29 Sign up with $50 at class office Tue, Wed,  St. Edward's Hall Players Coming Soon After Break  this magical America?) Love, your roomies  acquainted.  love-Molly  
houae.$140 per month. 287-4240  MILEAGE 277 5598 EVENINGS  Thur 2-4  P.S. You're a hard man to get a hold ofl  

-
---~-----~------~~ 
Thursday, December 8, 1988 The Observer page 11 
North Carolina beats Vanderbilt behind Lebo's 25 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.-North Carolina scored the first 15 points Wednesday night and the eighth-ranked Tar Heels beat Vanderbilt 89-77 behind 25 points from Jeff Lebo and 20 from Kevin Madden. 
Lebo scored 19 of his points in the first half, making four 3-pointers in the first nine minutes. The Tar Heels, 7-1, led by as many as 23 points in the first half before Vanderbilt, 2-4, closed to 46-39 at halftime. 
Vanderbilt pulled to 55-50 on a Barry Booker steal and dunk early in the second half but a 
Men 
continued from page 16 
a great deal of hard training," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "We want to take advantage of the extra time over the break to train two times a day. It is very clear what kind of training we need from our previous meets." 
Last week, Notre Dame produced some mediocre results, placing fourth in a field of 10 at the National Catholic Championships, then outscor­ing Fordham while falling to Villanova during a tri-meet. Over the long holiday vacation, the Irish hope to bounce back with a positive attitude. 
"The swimmers are very op­timistic and eager to get back in the pool and compete," com­mented Welsh. "We know that Irvine will be a very fast meet, because we expect that a lot of the faster teams from the west coast will be there." 
The swimmers will take off 
for California Dec. 28 in order 
to prepare for the speedy com­
petition. At a training camp in 
Long Beach, the team will hold 
intense practices every day for 
two hours in the morning and 
another two in the evening. 
"We aim at improving the quality of training that is some-King Rice bank shot and a three-point play by Steve Buck­nail gave North Carolina a 10­point lead. 
The Tar Heels stretched the lead to 14 several times before Vanderbilt pulled to 72-64 at the 
7:55 mark on a pair of Booker free throws. 
Madden, who scored 15 second-half points, scored four to key a 9-0 North Carolina run that put the Tar Heels ahead 81-64 with 4: 25 left. 
Scott Williams scored 13 points with 10 rebounds for North Carolina. Eric Reid scored 17 points for Vanderbilt and Frank Kornet scored 16. 
times difficult to achieve day in and day out with all the pre­ssures of school," commented senior co-captain John Froman. "For two weeks, we have the one focus of training hard." 
Last year, Notre Dame faced two of the top programs in the country, Arizona State and Southern Methodist, in the Ir­vine Invitational. This year, it will probably face the same quality of competition, al­though the opponents are still unknown. 
"We want to swim well, but the teams we will face are going to be very tough," said sophomore Paul Godfrey. "Last year, we swam against two really tough teams and we didn't win a single event. This year, hopefully we can improve our performance and win some events. But the main reason for the meet is to train hard and get ready for the second semes­ter." 
Rather than counting on key individual performances at Ir­vine, Coach Welsh hopes that each team member will con­tribute to the cause in a big way. "I am expecting a full team effort," said Welsh. "The advantage to that meet is that everyone can swim their pri­mary events, since there are no limits on race entries." 


.Knights of the Castle Men's Hairstylino 

student ~8.50 complete style 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 

nl'l"un...n ..... ' 
----------------------"' 
AIR TRAVEL 

IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
255-7272 

,-~, international 
~-tours tiltravel 
117 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
Wake Forest 79, Evansville 73 

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.­Sam Ivy scored 16 points and Wake Forest erased an 11-point halftime deficit with 59 percent shooting in the second half to edge Evansville 79-73 on Wed­nesday night. 
Wake Forest raised its record to 3-1, while Evansville dropped to 2-2. 
Ivy's layup with 3:17 left gave the Demon Deacons the lead for good at 69-68. The bas­ket came came during the middle of a 14-0 Wake Forest run. 
Free throws also played a key part of Wake Forest's com­eback. Mter Ivy's layup, he hit two free throws, followed by four straight from Robert Siler as Wake Forest sank 26 of 30. 
Evansville, which hit only 10 of 19 free throws, led 41-30 at halftime. 
Freshman Chris King added 13 points for Wake Forest, while fellow freshman Derrick McQueen had 11. 
Scott Haffner led Evansville with 28 points, hitting five of 15 3-pointers. Reed Crafton added 16 points, while Dan Godfread had 12. 
Wayman Tisdale (23) scored 24 points last night In leading the Indiana Pacers over the Portland 
Irish swimmers will include a camp at Long Beach, Cal., im­


Women 
mediately after the holidays. continued from page 16 The emphasis will be on dis­
tance, stroke events and skill training program," said Head improvement, specifically on Coach Tim Welsh. "It will be starts and turns. good for us to get into the water with these fast teams." "This is our only chance to 
Welsh is referring to USC and train without classes," said UCLA, which are both ranked Welsh. "We'll take advantage in the national top 10. of this by training hard twice 
a day."

The training program for the 
T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS, WHo•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
DENNYS, "\12 MILE N1Jfltli OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS OFFERING A"I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" T·SHIRT GIVE fJ.WAY. 
FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO OENNYS ·vE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
Michigan 108, CMU 62 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.-Glen Rice scored 21 points to lead second-ranked Michigan to a 108-62 victory over Central Mic­higan Wednesday night. 
The Wolverines had six players in double figures as they posted their largest-ever margin of victory against the Chippewas. The previous high of 41 points was set in 1976. 
Terry Mills added 19 points for Michigan, now 7-0 
The Chippewas, 3-2, were led by Jeff Majerle's 17 points. 
On Jan. 14, the Irish will go mternational when they travel to Canada to take on Western Ontario. This has always been an enjoyable meet for both teams because of the foreign exchange, according to Welsh. But last year Notre Dame didn't enjoy it as much as they would have liked as they lost a close meet, 109-102. The Irish hope to avenge that loss by defeating Western Ontario next month. 
Notre Dame will host Nor­thern Illinois in their fourth home meet on Jan. 18, the day that classes resume. It will be a big meet for both teams. The Irish have yet to beat the Huskies losing last year by a score of 139-127. Each year the winner has been decided by the last event of the meet. 

Correction 
Observer Staff Report 
This week's edition of 
Sports Wednesday in The 
Observer incorrectly listed 
the date of the Fiesta Bowl 
as Jan. 3. 
The game will be played 
on Jan. 2 in Tempe, Ariz. 

-

Thursday, December 8, 1988
page 12 The Observer 

ND in good hands with Graham 
Senior holder, QB gives up his dream to help the team 
By MOLLY MAHONEY And when it comes to taking role to many of the younger Sports Writer snaps from center Tim Grun­players. hard for kickers Reggie Ho and 
When you need insurance, do Billy Hackett, who have kicked "I don't play the option as you look for the "good-hands 12 of 16 field goals and 37 of 43 well as Tony Rice," said people?" extra points this season, Graham, "and I may not be a Well, the Notre Dame foot­
fast as him or have as strong ball team does. And to get it, it an arm. But, as a senior on the turns to the "good hands" of prep team I'd like to think the senior Pete Graham. younger guys will look at me 
For four years, Graham's and say, 'He's been doing this good hands ftave been guiding for four years and if he can do the prep unit that prepares the it, so can I.' " defense for game situations and holding for Irish kickers-­Even after seeing only lim­
-
both tasks which often go un­ited action as quarterback for noticed but frequently insure the Irish, Graham has not com­Irish victories. plained. But how could he, "I came to Notre Dame with when the Bergen Report, which 
the dream of becoming the scouts top NFL prospects, lists ~'1;· !h 
Pete Graham
starting quarterback," said him as one of a dozen quarter­File Photo Graham. "But after four years Graham plays down his impor­backs showing pro potential Wide receiver Mark Duper of the Miami Dolphins Is embroiled In a 
I'm not, so my main role is to tance as the holder. even without impressive statis­
drug controversy which may be bigger than was originally thought. 
give the defense the best possi­"My job is easy," said tics and a great deal of playing 
A related story can be found above.

ble look at what they'll see in Graham. "I just try to get the time. the upcoming game and do a guys relaxed and ready to go, good job holding for extra especially Reggie because I "I love this place," said points and field goals. don't want him to get down on Graham. "Whatever happens 



FINALLY,

I'll never complain, because himself. in the future with my football I'm at the best possible school "I try to be his best friend career, all my goals have been and I'm proud to be a Notre out there and remind him that accomplished. I've met won­

LEGALLY LEGAL! 
Dame football player." he's one of the best kickers in derful people at Notre Dame, 
When the Rumson, N.J. na­the country. I just want what's I'll graduate in May with a tive came out of Rumson­best for the teaJil, and that degree in business manage­Fairhaven High School though, means you've got to give guys ment, and we're one game he had every reason to believe like Reggie a little encourage­away from a national champi­that one day he would be at the ment sometimes." onship. helm of the Irish offense. Graham does not limit these 
In fact, as an votes of confidence to Ho alone. "Every Saturday I got a Adidas-Scholastic Coach prep chance to come through that All-American and all-state, all­After giving the Irish defense tunnel and hear 60,000 people county and all-Jersey Shore a look at the opposition's of­going crazy. I love just going choice as a senior, he could fense for four years and having into the lockeroom to sing the have been the starting quarter­what coaches feel is ''an excep­fight song and watching Coach back at many schools. tional knowledge of the Notre Holtz pass out the game balls. 
He completed 63 percent of Dame system," Graham has That's why I play, and that's 
Sal and Charlie
his passes, 96 of 152, for 1,700 also extended his leadership what Notre Dame is all about." yards and passed for 12 touch­. ' 
,...............................................•·------------------------· 
downs during his senior season and Illinois and Florida State 

A 20 Year Old Gooch? ~: ~-~ :
both recruited Graham heav­ily. UCLA even sent a coach 

!I ·~ I
coast-to-coast to witness him in 
:1 ~:;, I action during practice. : I .·-~~ · · -. .. . :.. a· I :1 ~ I
But Graham does not regret Happy .. . his decision to attend Notre Dame. Birthday I THIRSTY THURSDAY I 
"I'll never be sorry I came here," said Graham. The best Case! 1 Free 32 oz. soda with 1experience is just being around guys like Tom Gorman and : any 14 inch sub order : Tony Rice and Corny Southall. 
I -DON'T FORGET lOTH INNING SPECIAL I
"Everyday I'm around 100 of 

From Hick, OB, Matts, 1 EVERYDAY AFTER lOPM 7 INCH SUB, I
the best guys I know. There is 

Gilbs, Dan, Phil Boy, 1 CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25 I 
no other place where you could find any more dedicated, Jocko, Stick, Trip & I I
1 271·0 SUB 1
hardworking and caring Matty. 
L . 1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE I
people." 

·······················•· ------------------------­
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Fiesta Bowl student tickets will be distributed only to students, ticket manager Bubba Cunningham emphasized Wednesday. Students will probably have to bring more pic­ture identifications than just a student ID when they try to pick up their tickets. Students who cancel their ticket orders now will get their money back, but no refunds will be given in Arizona. -The Observer 
The Synchronized Swim Club will not hold any more practices this semester. There will be a meeting Jan. 19 at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs pool. -The Observer 
Win valuable prizes as WVFI radio presents Trivia Night on Speaking of Sports tonight between 9:00 and 10:00. Join Jamie Rappis and Greg Guffey as the stumpers fly at 640 on your AM dial. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 


Shula implicated in Sl article 
Magazine says Miami coach covered up Duper dealings 
Associated Press "I was very disturbed," tant Stuart Weinstein said. 
Shula said, "by the implication Contrary to the SI article, 
MIAMI-Miami Dolphins co­that I was aware of alleged Weinstein said, he did not tell ach Don Shula said Wednesday drug use or consorting with Robbie about the pictures. he did all he could in 1986 to drug dealers and didn't do Sports Illustrated said Duper end Mark Duper's associations anything about it. has been a cocaine user since with convicted drug dealers. "As soon as I was aware of at least 1986. The NFL said it 
Sports Illustrated magazine the photographs that were has been watching his activi­reported in its Dec. 12 issue taken of two of our ballplayers ties for some time. issue that Shula and team with two convicted drug "Both the NFL and club se­owner Joe Robbie were told dealers, I immediately made curity representatives have more than two years ago ·about the league security department spoken to Mark Duper on more photographs of Duper with aware of this and called the bal­than one occasion on an indi­Miami cocaine dealer Nelson lplayers in. (I) talked to them vidual basis over nearly a two­Aguilar and other dealers. about having their pictures year period regarding his pos­
"The league and team offi­taken with these convicted sible association with reputed cials apparently did little to drug dealers. drug dealers," league spokes­stop Duper's association with "And that was the extent of man Joe Browne said. the dealers," the magazine what I could do." "All NFL players often are said. Duper was warned to stay cautioned by security officials 
The NFL last week away from Aguilar after a about such relationships." suspended Duper for 30 days photo surfaced showing the two Browne said it was for violating the league's sub­men and former Dolphin Nat "ludicrous" to question Shula's stance abuse policy. Moore, team security consul-credibility. 

Thursday, December 8, 1988 The Observer 
page 13 

Rocker wins Outland Trophy 
Auburn defensive line star upsets MSU's Mandarich 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Auburn's Tracy Rocker, the No.1 player on the nation's No. 1 defensive unit, fought off two offensive linemen Wednesday and won the 43rd annual Outland Trophy as the nation's top in­terior lineman. 
The 6-foot-3, 278-pound senior tackle said he was "shocked" when he was announced as the winner over Michigan State tackle Tony Mandarich and Pitt guard Mark Stepnoski "because I've been double-teamed all year by offensive linemen and right now I have two offensive linemen next to me." 
"It means a whole lot to me because I can sit here and think about the times where I made some sacrifices and gave up some things because I wanted to have something special. I think right now it paid off." 
Auburn led the nation this season in scoring defense, total defense and rushing defense, allowing only 7.2 points and 
218.1 and 63.2 yards a game. 
Rocker made 101 tackles, in­cluding 13 behind the line plus five quarterback sacks. His 354 career tackles are the most by any lineman in Auburn history. 
Rocker is Auburn's second Outland winner. Guard Zeke Smith won it in 1958. 
"When you get to this level, it's the inner strength that makes the difference between being good or great, and then being the best," said Auburn Coach Pat Dye. "Tracy had those qualities that set him apart from other people." 

The Observer I Scott McCann 

The Notre Dame hockey team played well despite Irish will face more nationally-ranked competition losing to CCHA and national power Illi­over Christmas break. nois-Chicago 3-1 Tuesday night In Chicago. The Michigan State's Tony Mandarlch was upset In Outland Trophy balloting yesterday, losing out to Tracy Rocker of Auburn. Man­darich missed the first three games of the season as a result of an NCAA suspension. 



Helps students relieve stress. 
The stress of solving equations that run a 68881 math co-processor. Its memory from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­the elusive quark. And of analyzing the city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open-strains placed on your average suspension with six NuBus'"slots for communications. bridge on a windy day video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
To all of you who must move moun-All of which is good reason to do one tains ofdata we offer the Macintosh" II com-simple thing the next time an assignment puter. Owning one is comparable to having has you stressed out: Plug one in. a personal workstation or powerful main-.~ frame sitting on your desk. . 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And The power to be your besC 
© Jt)88 ..~,pie Ctmt{JU/t'r. lm: :VfJ/l'. tbe :VlfJ/1' logo fll/(1.\ltidnlu.J., an· n~I.,Mnl lmt!emarh.· f!l mu/ "ll.Jt! jKIIHTto/}{'_I'OIIr /}(N' i.\' a.tmdemnrl• '!(Vf1lt• Computer. Inc .\ullus /,\·a tmdt.,lltlr~· r{7i:m.,Jm1nu11CWL\·.fuc. .ll\'/XlS isr1 n'-!islmrltmrll111ttrl.• r{.lltl1TN!fl 0J,7JtJmlion. 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 

-
-

~------~~~------~~~~------------------~-----------------------------------------~ --­
Thursday, December 8, 1988
Walsh visits ND, predicts Irish win 
By MARTY STRASEN 

Fiesta Bowl victory over West Sports Editor Virginia. 
Miami quarterback Steve "They (the Irish) shouldn't Walsh visited Notre Dame have a problem at all," Walsh 
·6 

early this week for the first continued. "They're in the time since the Irish upset the drivers' seat. They've done ... ~ $­
Hurricanes  31-30  in  October,  everything they've had to do to  
but this time there was no hos­tility.  win the ship."  national  champion­ '!:1'-fo/'c~~0  f  
Walsh, who is good friends  
with Notre Dame hockey cap­tain Matt Hanzel, stayed with  Walsh said the only way he can see the Irish having a prob­ •  
Hanzel at Turtle Creek Apart­ lem  would  be  if  the  Moun­ 
ments  Monday night after  a  taineers open an early lead and  
speaking  engagement  in  Notre Dame has to change its  
Chicago. Both Walsh and Han­ game plan of running, but he  ~  
zel are from St. Paul, Minn.  added that he does not envision  
"Not  many  people  recog­ such a scenario.  
nized him in the Huddle," Han­ "Notre Dame--man for man­ 
zel said. "A few people did, but  -is probably a much better foot­ 
no one was popping off to him  ball team thna West Virginia,"  
or anything. That was good."  said Walsh, who finished fourth  
in the Heisman Trophy ballot­ 
While watching Los Angeles  ing  behind  Oklahoma  State  
defeat  Chicago  on  Monday  running back Barry Sanders,  
Night  Football  and  before  a  USC  quarterback  Rodney  
short  night  out  at  Bridget's,  Peete and UCLA quarterback  The Observer I Rob Regovich  
Walsh praised Notre Dame and its chances of winning the na­tional championship with a  Troy Aikman. The junior will be one of the pre-season Heis­man favorites next year.  Quarterback and Helsman Trophy candidate Steve Walsh (4) of the Miami Hurricanes was In South Bend early this week, and had some pretty  good things to say about the Fighting Irish ano their chances In the Fiesta Bowl. Marty Strasen has details at left.  

Rangers continue to change faces, acquire Nolan Ryan 
Associated Press "It didn't come down to a mon­baseball's seventh all-time "We're getting close," said made a trade at the winter 
ATLANTA-Nolan Ryan etary decision. The over-riding leading home run hitter. Hurst's agent, Nick Lampros, meetings since 1983, made stayed true to Texas, Mike fact was what I felt was best without indicating the favorite. three deals for 15 players and Schmidt said loyalty is keeping for me and my family." In other business, the 26 seemed ready to make more. him in Philadelphia, and free Schmidt, 39, also did not want owners met for five hours. The Rangers finished next-to­agent Bruce Hurst prepared to to move and he agreed to a one­Commissioner Peter Ueber­last in the AL west this past make a decision about leaving year contract with the Phillies. roth said he hoped a new tele­season, 33-and-a-half games Boston ~ednesday as "The loyalty issue is the most vision contract could be behind. baseball's winter meeting offi­important," said Schmidt, who worked out next week, while cially ended. was actively pursued by Cin­commissioner-elect Bart The New York Mets kept up 
The final day brought more cinnati. Giamatti, speaking about ex­their interest in Atlanta's Dale action, and the Texas Rangers Schmidt, who underwent sur­pansion, said, "we're very, Murphy and Cleveland's Joe -continued their pace as the gery in September for a torn very far away from (picking) Carter, and Philadelphia con­busiest team. They lassoed right rotator cuff, will be cities.'' tinued to shop Phil Bradley. Ryan, a 41-year-old free agent, guaranteed $500,000. He gets l • Giamatti's spot as National The New York Yankees. who 
Nolan Ryan

for a one-year contract plus an another $500,000 if he is on the League president will not be had talked about trading Dave option year that could be worth roster May 15, another $500,000 Hurst was expected to decide filled until January, it was an­Winfield, went home in the af­$3 million. if he playing on Aug. 15 and can soon between re-signing with nounced. Simon Gourdine, a ternoon. 
"I am a die-hard Texan," earn $550,000 more in incen­the Red Sox or accepting offers former executive in the NBA, said Ryan, who left the tives. from either San Diego or Cali­is the leading choice and would Texas traded for .300 hitters lukewarm Houston Astros and "I feel physically better than fornia. Each team has pro­be the first black ever to head Julio Franco and Rafael Pal­turned down bigger offers from at any time in my life at this posed three-year deals ap­a pro sports league. meiro earlier and bolstered its California and San Francisco. time of the year," said proaching $5.5 million. The Rangers, who had not pitching staff with Ryan. 
# 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
Irish defense and scoring to narrow the lead to 68-66. 
One thing to Notre Dame's credit is that it maintained its composure in the final minutes, as sophomore forward Krissi Davis moved to the basket, was fouled with :13 left, and con­verted both free throws to finish the scoring. 
"I just tried to relax and shoot like I do in practice,'' said Davis, who had 13 points and eight rebounds. "I knew they

--
would be double-teaming Heidi (Bunek) so I was looking for an opportunity to contribute." 
In the game, senior co­captain Heidi Bunek was next on the scoring roster with 15 points, and led the team in rebounds with 12. Sophomore point guard Karen Robinson and senior forward Lisa Kuhns each added nine. 
The main concern for the team was its defense and its rebounds. Coming into the game, Notre Dame had been outrebounded by its opponents, 118-111, and had been giving up 
71.3 points per game. 

Last night the Irish had 36 cohesive unit, we won't have to rebounds to the Warriors' 28, worry about these lapses." but the defense story did not improve much. The Irish will have plenty of 
"It seemed like we were time to work on their defense playing well, but then one or as their next game is not until two of our mistakes would give Dec. 19 against Toledo at home. them a chance to score key bas­IRISH NOTES--Notre Dame con­kets," said Davis. "We've just tinues to make the clutch free got to hold them on defense." throws this season. Including last night's game, the Irish are Senior co-captain Heidi 25 of 28 in the final five minutes Bunek agreed. of regulation for a .890 
"I think we stayed very com­percentage. Karen Robinson posed for the most part," said was also perfect at the line last the senior center, "but there night, making her 21 of 26 (.810) were times when we made for the season and 78 of 97 (.800) mental mistakes. When we for her career, which is tops in work as a team and as a Notre Dame history. 
* t}
HAPPY t'r *BIR7BDAY 



JAMIE REVORD 
~ * 1:}
~ove, Mom &Dad, Mark, Mike, N Matt, Kristin & Coach i} 
Come Early 
1&1 ALUMNISENIOR ===== 

Stay Late Open 9-2 am

~CLUB 
~ 

~ Come Here For Some Christmas Cheer! 
* Our ~~IF Night This Semester! 
THURSDAY Bring Your CLUB CUP 

\_\\JE 1515 W©UJJ1J[H] mNJ ~~~~~~ 
@~ ~ @~@@ ~[M] 

(CLOSED FRI &SAT -FINALS YOU KNOW) 
--~-~---~------------·-~-----~-----------­
Thursday, December 8, 1988 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Department of Music Chamber Class Recital, Annen­berg Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Visiting Scholar Series and the Deptartment of Eco­nomics presents "The Past and Future Roles of the Federal Government in Our Fiscal Federalism," by Prof. Roy Bahl, Georgia State Univeristy, Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Center for Philosophy of Religion Lectu~e "R~ferring to God," by Prof. William Alston, Syracuse Umvers1ty, Res­burgh Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Special Turkey Cutlet Student Beef Stroganoff Feast of Stuff Peppers 
Christmas Deli Bar 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
COMICS . 
Bloom County 
IT'.f II/JOVTII 8€/IK NIIM6/?

•!WJCCOlt MilK" Wlf() tm:Y Ut<e5 7fJ MT1/~K//W.f. !JN/18/.£ W KeCONC/LE 7lfl.f eotff1W11CT!ON 1M H/5 UF€., ~ 9fJY5 /IN (}Z/ fiN!? TIIK~ 
MA 
KMflf?T. 
/ 
'1fl KMJW, IN '1&1/((5 f'II5T ONe COf/t.fl WIITCH J/ICK MNNY /IT 8 P.M. MKY 

511T71KllfiY NI6HT ANP KNOW 
)O(JK6 5HI/RING '"!He MM6 
MOMeNT W!TH ll@ll<t..Y !Wt"KY OTHffR Afla?.ICAN. 
\,. 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 East Indian 49 School org. sailor 
50 Tin­

1 Updike's "The -Door" 29 Objects 59 Radiotelephony 
34 "Or lend -to Plato. "· so Spoken 

5 Makes a deposit term 
9-abeet 
Tennyson 
61 Against14 Pitchers' slats 

35 County center 

62 Indian, e.g. 15 First; chief: 
36 Jackie's second 
63 Play part Comb. form 

37 Silver­
64 Examine16 Soap plant 

41 Building wing 65 Approach11 Gay cadence 
sideways 18 Glass panel 42 Relaxation 66 First sin site 
43 Kitchen utensil 19"Canadian fliers 67 Kind of vision 
44 Devoid of 20Golden-inhabitants 23 Spanish article 47 Makes a goal 24 Kisser 48 Thus, to Virgil 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 
1 Addressed or control preceder 2 Integument 3 Stallion, e.g. 4 East. to Juan 5 Loom up 6 Pulls along 7 Lisbon lady 8 Word on a proof 9Astew 
•::':+:+:::-i 11 Busy one 12 As well 13 Rank a netman 
-=+~±:+::-+=~+=-! 21 Mrs. Schumann ..;.:+;,;.+:~:;..! 22 Speak theatrically 
Berke Breathed 

26 Tropical lizard 27 Joins the bears 28 Golfer Peete 29 "--porridge 
hot.. " 30 Order to a chef 31 Less hazardous 32 Rich find 33 N.H.L. teams 35 Hit a fly 
The Far Side 
38 Respond to 39 Wilde or Levant 40 Branco or Bravo 45 Pertaining to 
bone 
46 Gothic re-enforcing rib 47 Purloined 49 Family name of American artists 
50 N.FL. players 
51 Places 
52 Matured 
53 Olden times 
54 Goad 
55 Don't eat 
56 Tale opener 
57 Emphatic type: 
Abbr. 58 Occupation 
Gary Larson 



~--------~--------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------­




Sports

oage 16 Thursday, December 8, 1988 

ND women struggle, still edge Marquette 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Irish forward Sara Liebscher Sports Writer led all scorers on the night with 18, including two clutch plays
The Notre Dame women's late in the game.basketball team edged out With 4:53 left and Notre Marquette last night at the Dame ahead 60-56, Liebscher Joyce ACC Arena, 70-66, in the was fouled, went to the line and Irish home season-opener. converted both free throws, ex­
Three Irish women scored in tending the lead to 62-56. Im­double digits, and two more mediately after, on Mar­added nine points, but to Head quette's next possession, 
Coach Muffet McGraw, the Liebscher picked off a pass and game showed the need for the went coast-to-coast for a layup, Irish to improve their defense. making the score 64-56. 
Notre Dame (3-1) could not "Sara had a great second run away with this one, as half," said McGraw. "She every time it established a sig­came through with the bignificant lead, the Warriors plays when we needed them, would come back and erase it. making her scoring count." 
"They (Marquette) have Marquette was not finished, been playing with each other as two Irish turnovers and 1: 11 for a long time," said Graduate later the score was 64-60. Assistant Sandy Botham. Four possessions later the "They came out strong and ag­Irish found themselves ahead gressive. I think you could tell 68-62, when Marquette staged how strong they were by the its final rally. fact that our girls were tired With 1:48 left Marquetteafter the first five minutes." senior Heidi Ach sunk a 16­
Notre Dame had to rely on a footer to narrow the gap to 68­strong offensive effort to coun­64. Ach lead all Marquetteterbalance the defense. scorers with 17 points.
"This game shows we've still After failed scoring opportu­got to improve on our defense,'' nities on both sides, Marquette said McGraw. "I was hoping once again worked the ball in­that the defense would show it­side, exploiting the sagging
Sophomore Krlssl Davis (with the ball) and the at the JACC. Davis had 13 points and eight 
self tonight, but we still have a

Notre Dame women's basketball team eked out rebounds. Scott Brutocao has details at right. 
see HOOPS, page 14
lot to work on." 

a 70-66 win over the Marquette Warriors last night 
Hockey team hangs in, falls to talented Illinois I Chicago 
By DAVE McMAHON mately three minutes remain­season," said Madson, who has a factor and they hurt us more ing the RPI Tournament, Sports Writer ing in the period. The Irish, now played every minute of every by scoring two goals at the out­which also includes Air Force 3-13-2 on the season, were out­game for the Irish. set." and Providence, in Troy, New Despite suffering a 3-1 loss shot 17-6 by the Flames in the The Flames, in the midst of York. The Irish return to the on Tuesday at Illinois-Chicago, opening period but equaled the a six game winning streak, Despite an upcoming road with games Jan. 2-3 at the Irish hockey team gained a UIC shot output for the added its final goal with little schedule that includes three Army, Jan. 5 at Boston College moral victory against the remainder of the game. time left in the third. The Irish teams currently in the NCAA (ranked eighth) and Jan. 7 at seventh-ranked Flames. came up just short twice during Top 15, Schafer likes the 15th-ranked Merrimack. Notre 
Three Irish penalties opened the game, bouncing two shots chances of the team picking up Dame will then travel "It was like win for us," com­the door for its opponent, but off the posts in the first and a few victories against some westward, facing the Arizona 
mented Head Coach Ric the Notre Dame defense stifled second periods. quality teams. Wildcats. Schafer. "There's no shame the UIC attack. A power-play Notre Dame lost the first "If we continue to play like losing to a team of their goal by UIC was the lone score meeting between the two teams we did against UIC, brighter "I think we'll surprise some caliber." in the second period, due to an 8-3, but Tuesday's 3-1 score in­days will be in the future," said people even though we are 
Notre Dame, suffering its outstanding performance by dicated much improvement the Schafer. facing some tough opponents," ninth straight loss, took the junior goalie Lance Madson. second time around. "We had said Hanzel. "We'll play some lead midway through the first played three games in four Over Christmas break, Notre really good teams in Boston period on a goal by junior Andy "I had something to prove, days before our last game Dame plays a home-and-home College and Merrimack, but we Slaggart. UIC, 11-4-2, tied the so I went out and played one of against them," said co-captain series with Ferris State should do all right," said Han­game at 1-1 with approxi-my better games of the Matt Hanzel. "Fatigue became December 20-21 before attend-zel. 
Swim teams' trips west will be mostly business 
Men head west 3-2 women·to to train, compete take advantage vs. coast powers of California sun 
By KEVIN REISCH 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's While many of us are relax­swim team visits California ing over Christmas break, the and Canada over the upcoming women's swim team will be break, the trip will be far from practicing and preparing for a vacation in paradise. competitions. 
Even after a respectable 3-2 Between Christmas and Jan. start this season, the Irish have 18, the squad will be participat­plenty of work cut out for them. ing in three meets, including The swimmers will train hard the University of California­to prepare for tough competi­Irvine Invitational. This is the tion at UC-Irvine and Long first time that Notre Dame has Beach State on Jan. 6-7. Then, participated in the Invitation­the squad travels north for a al, which will be held on Jan. dual meet against Western On­6-7, and will include some pow­tario on Jan. 14. ...........,;~, erful West Coast teams . 
The Observer I David Ascher

"We are looking forward to "The purpose of going to this 
The Notre Dame swim teams are preparing for a Reisch and Mary Garlno preview both teams' our
meet will be to evaluate 
see MEN, page 11 brutal schedule of both meets and training ses­plans. sions In California over Christmas break. Kevin see WOMEN, page 11 




