: .. M 
Wear Your Shades
IACCENT: 'Masquerade' proves a thriller 
Mostly sunny Wednesday with 


~~:Q.:I
-.

highs in the mid 60s. Partly sunny ' and cooler Thursday with highs 
near 60.

IVIEWPOINT: Personal account of ANC 
i .J 


VOL. XXI, NO. 121 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
•

Hijacked jet 1n Algeria; about 
Associated Press The Boeing 747left Larnaca, and plane there, but one of the 
Cyprus after the Shiite Moslem hijackers denied it. 
ALGIERS, Algeria--A gunmen freed 12 more pas­He said by radio just before 
hijacked Kuwaiti jumbo jet sengers in what they called a takeoff: "We deny what has 
carrying at least 30 hostages gesture of goodwill. The hijack­been reported by radios and by 
flew from Cyprus to Algeria on ers have killed two passengers the media that we are ready to 
Wednesday, but the gunmen during the grim nine-day od­hand the plane to anyone. We 
denied they would give up the dysey. refuse to do that, until martyr­
plane. Akis Fantis, a spokesman for dom." He did not mention the 
the Cyprus government, told hostages. 
The aircraft touched down at reporters "sources in Algiers" Police surrounded the 
3:07a.m. local time (10:07 p.m. gave assurances that the gun­brightly lit VIP lounge at Al­
EDT Tuesday). men \VOUld give up the hostages giers' Houari Boumedienne 
Mock Convention delegates Tim Rock, Rita Robinett, David Fares, and Andy Richardson eagerly debate the platform points. The Mock Convention will con-
Convention decides platform 
By NATASHA WILSON Pennsylvania delegate Rita Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­Senior Staff Reporter Robinett said that although she dents hold," said Robinett. favored the ban on abortion, Wisconsin delegate Dan Izzo 
About 200 delegates of the she considered it "very un­said he voted pro-choice be­
Mock National Convention realistic" for our majority pro­cause the delegates "should adopted Tuesday a platform choice society. echo what the Democractic which keynote speaker former ''A legal ban could not be en­party would vote." "It's evi­Ohio Governor John Gilligan forced in our society," said dent that Notre Dame is trying criticized for its contradic­New York delegate Malini to make a statement, but not 
tions. Chablani. "Perhaps there everyone comes from the eco­
"The draft platform pre­could be a constitutional ban, nomic and cultural backrounds 
sented here for you delegates but never an immediate legal that ND students do. We have 
is a classic example of how to ban,'' she said. to take that into considera­
commit political suicide," Gil­Mary LaSata, AI Gore's cam­tion," Chablani contends. 
ligan said. paign manager, contends the "The executive commission 
abortion debate "got a bit too should have dealt with the two 
The delegates debated the heated and empassioned conflicting views before and platform planks for four hours feelings took over." "The decided which was most impor­and approved several amend­plank should not even have tant to the convention,'' LaSata ments before voting to adopt been on the platform. It's an claimed. the platform. issue the legislative and judi­The delegates also rejected 
An hour and a half of the dis­cial branches should deal an amendment to the defense cussion was devoted to a debate with," LaSata said. 
plank calling for the United on an abortion plank. 
States to maintain a force ofPro-life proponents, who The abortion debate nuclear weapons as a were sponsoring an amend­developed into a discussion deterence against aggressionment to legally ban abortion, about whether the Mock Con­by political adversaries.
battled verbally with pro­vention should represent the Tuesday night's debatechoice delegates. views of Notre Dame students represented a "definite shift inIn the end the pro-life rather than the views of the na­the sentiment" from Mondaydelegates prevailed. The plank tional Democratic party. 
night's more moderatewhich the convention adopted Most of the platform planks opinions, according to Johnproposed a legal ban on abor­state "We the students of Notre Farley, Jesse Jackson's cam·tion and advocated economic Dame feel (or recognize) ..." paign manager. 
resources for sex education "I believe we are trying to The conservative switch wasand medical aid for lower-class elect someone ultimately who 

•


40 rema1n aboard 
airport. Squads of motorcyle lounge then were spirited into 
police, normally used as es­a guarded sideroom. 
corts, stood by along with am­
bulances, fire trucks and police About 40 people, including 
cars. the six to eight hijackers, 
remained aboard the Kuwait 
Algerian Interior Minister El Airways jet. It was comman­
Hadi Khediri and Information deered eight days ago on a 
Minister Bachir Rouis were at flight from Bangkok to Kuwait 
the airport. Three members of and spent three days at Mash­
the permanent Palestine had, Iran. It was subsequently 
Liberation Organization mis­allowed to land at Larnaca be­
sion in Algiers entered the VIP cause it was running out of fuel. 

Student reaction to task force mixed 
By KENDRA LEE MOR­tialliability for alcohol-related 
RILL injuries, according to the task 
Assistant News Editor force report, are the University 
as a supervisor of student con­
The recent release of the duct, property owner, seller of 
reports of the Task Forces on alcohol, and social host. 
residentialilty and alcohol has Rob Grahek, presently a res­
sparked mixed reaction among ident assistant in Cavanaugh 
students and rectors at Notre Hall, said he felt "University 
Dame. responsibility and liability 
Noel Murtha, a junior in definitely is a factor to be con­
Pasquerilla West and a resi­sidered. Most people don't 
dent assistant for 1988-89, said, realize the University goes out 
"When I first read the reports on a limb." 
I felt as a whole they were good. Grahek said he felt the task 
They raised issues that never force offered realistic answers 
get raised . . . that needed to and some solutions to dealing
be addressed." with problems.
"On the other hand," said Junior Mike Polcari, a 
Murtha, "there were things (in Keenan Hall resident assistant 
the reports) that were lack­for 1988-89, said he doesn't 
ing." Concerning the report on think the task force on alcohol 
alcohol, Murtha said, "I felt "is doing things differently. It's 
that when I read the recom­just a matter of enforcing the 
mendations, they were unrea­alcohol policy more strictly."
sonable to the effect that the Polcari said he felt Univer­
report seemed like a liability sity policy has "kind of been a 
report. (The task force mem­paradox. There's a strict alco­
bers') concern was with hol policy, but twice a semester 
liability, not with responsible you can get blitzed (at SYRs)." 
drinking." "The University is trying to 
"It's an 'out of sight, out of get more consistent," said Pol­
mind' kind of thing," she said. carL 
Four functions of the Univer­
sity that are sources of poten-see REACTION, page 4 
BUSh wants to take on Democratic nominee 
Associated Press The balloting in New York 
next Tuesday is a foregone con­
Michael Dukakis and Albert clusion for the Republicans. 
Gore Jr. traded barbs in a New But for the Democrats, the pri­
York debate Tuesday on the mary offers rich prizes and 
Middle East, welfare cuts and harsh judgments. 
timidity in dealing with fellow For Jackson, it offers another 
Democrat Jesse Jackson. Re­chance to prove he can attract 
publican George Bush said he white votes and continue the 
"can't wait to take on" one of growth of a mainstream cam­
them in the fall campaign. paign. 
A week before the pivotal "I was an underdog for 45 
New York primary, the Demo­years and 11 months, and now 
cratic battle was turning into I'm one of the top dogs, and I 
"a bloodletting," Bush said, as just love it," Jackson said in the 
he moved sedately toward the New York Daily News debate. 
GOP nomination that is all but "New York loves a winner, and 
his. I'm a winner.... Vote for a 
"I still intend to campaign winner. Vote for Jackson ac­
right through the end of the pri­tion " 
mary season," Bush said in Dukakis, the front-runner in 
Schenectady. "I can't wait to the polls, is hoping to make it take on whichever one of those three primary victories in a three ~ocrats wins the 
expectant mothers. would represent the values that see PLATFORM, page 5 Democratic nomination.'' see POLITICS, page 4 
page 2 


In Brief 

Sonny Bono, the singer turned restaurateur who rose to fame singing "I've Got You Babe" to ex-wife Cher, was elected mayor of Palm Springs, Calif. Tuesday. Bono easily won the seven-way race. "This has just been a v~ry active election. When you get that many people runrung there's a lot of interest," said Patty Bode, assistant city clerk who estimated turnout at 55 percent. Bono, 53, rose to fa~e as the furry-vested, bell-bottomed former hippie singing "I've Got You Babe" with Cher, who he correctly had predicted would win the Best Actress Oscar on Mon­day. -Associated Press 
Grateful black residents of South Africa who won a court battle against the government offered their white lawyer a bride, but he politely declined. "I am very pleased to say that I already have a wife," sai~ John Duga~d, h~ad of the Institute of Applied Legal Studies at the Umversi~Y of the Witswatersrand in Johannesburg. The commumty northwest of Pretoria made the offer in keeping with tribal tradition -Associated Press 
Indianapolis shoppers can file their federal income tax forms this week, then take out their wrath on an IRS agent -all in the name of charity. Called a "Tax ~ash," it is being held at Union Station, the city's former railroad terminal which has been converted into retail stores. The event benefits the Muscular Dystrophy Association. For $2, anyone can buy three sho~ at dunking a real Internal Revenue Service representative. Or sledgehammer a 6­foot metal 1040 form. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The WVFI-AM 640 News Team will cover the Notre Dame '88 Mock Convention this week with in-depth news coverage of each night's action at 7 p.m. and 11 p.m., live reports throughout the night from Stepan Center, and commentary by WVFI's own "Strictly Speaking" political commentators. -The Observer 
Pressures women face will be the focus of the second of a two part workshop on women and careers sponsored by the University Counseling Center. It will be held today from 6:30p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Sorin Room in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Peace Corps Overseas Undergraduate Internship applications are available at the Center for Social Con­cerns, the Peace Institute and Room 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who are Amer­ican citizens are eligible; candidates should have demon­strated interest in community service and potential to live and work overseas. Fall, spring or sumf!1er placements are possible. For more information call 239-5142. -The Ob­
server 

Senior class "Backpack to Briefcase" lectures will take place today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.ni.in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. Topics include: "Personal Budgeting" by Michael Bodhm, Financial Con­sultant, and "Banking" by Phil Harbert, Vice President of Executive and Professional Services at the First Source Bank. -The Observer 
A symposium titled ''Are We All on the Same Team? Minority Groups Politics in the U.S." sponsored by the Office of Minority Affairs and the College Fellows Office will be held today from 7:30p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. The panelists are faculty mem­bers specialized in this area. A reception will follow. -The 
Observer 

Peace with Justice Week continues tonight with a talk by Bishop Willaim McManus entitled "Can Deter­rence Be Immoral?" at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social 
Concerns. -The Observer 

Applications are still available for positions in the Multicultural Executive Council '88-'89. They are in the Student Activities Office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center and are due Apri119 by 4:30 p.m.Interviews will be April21. -The Observer 

Daign Editor ......••.••••..•..•... Rob Luxem Vietopoint La11out ............... Laura Manzi Daign Aan.tBnt •••.••.•• Annette Rowland Accent C<>JIII Editor..••..... Susan Buckley TJIPUdtera ........•.••..•......... Paul Jacboo Accent LaJiout .................... Kathy Gllwa ........................................... Andy Tinaoo TJIPUt .................................. Will Zamer Nn11 Editor.•••••••••.•••••••••.... Liz Pauzlca ND Doll Editor ......••...... Carolyn McCall C<>JIII Editor ...••••••••.•...... MaU Gallagher SJIC Doll Editor •.......•.•••••..•••• Liz Ryan SJIOf"U C<>JIII Editor........ Steve Megargee PhotoQrapM1-............•.•... Trey Reymond 
n. ~(USPS 599 1-GIO) ia publiabed Mooday throuab Friday acept clllrilll-Uld ¥KalioD periods. n.~ia publiabed by the studeniS of the UaiwnityofNocre 0...Uld SaiDt Mary's CoiJcac. Sublcriptioas may be purcbu­ld for S40 J11r ,_, (S2S J11r -.)bywritiaa n.o.--, P.O. Boll Q, Notre 0...,1.....46SS6. 
n.~Ia a mabcr of n. AI•••... r-. All rcprodudioa rilhll are
--. ;;.' 
-----------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 13, 1988The Observer 

Compromise gives students a balance 
At Stanford University the dust is still settling after the battle of the West versus the rest of Matt ~ 
the world. Controversy had been raging for 
months over how best to structure their equiv-Slaughteralent of Notre Dame's Arts and Letters Core · Course, which all freshmen are required to VIewpoint Editor 
take. As it stood before the debate, the syllabus 


------------lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.._
for their Western Culture Program consisted of 15 set authors, all of whom are male and come out of our own Western tradition: Homer, Dante, Freud, etc. Opponents of ethnocentrism and chauvinism cried foul, arguing such a stilted regimen should be thrown out in favor of a panorama of thinkers coming from all world traditions. 
Guardians of the West such as The Wall Street Journal and William Bennet warned against "the trashing of Plato and Shakespeare." Revisionist groups said purge the course as nec­essary. Heated words were exchanged, mud slung, and the epic ended ... in a compromise. The course recieves both a new name (Culture, Ideas, and Values --sound familiar?) and a new syllabus with Western and non-Western think­ers. A let down? Indeed, no --a prudent decision which nearly was lost amidst all the polar think­ing. 
Polemics rather than discourse seemed to be ...:;.________________~ 
the rule of thumb in this flurry of words; un­Third, one cannot deny one's particular cul­fortunate, because a fundamental issue is at ture. Granted, the world is today becoming a hand: how the classicists should properly truly global society where the actions of one respond to the ascendancy of non-classic think­small part inexorably affect all others --but by ers. If the intellectual "giants" on both sides no means is it a homogenous one. Diversity of the debate had put aside aside their egos in among cultures will continue for generations. the name of disinterested analysis they would To recognize the diversity among cultures, have quickly come to recognize a few guiding then, should not entail the rejecting of one's facts. own. Revisionists like to overlook this fact. 
Fourth, one must remember the purpose of 
First, one cannot deny the world hegemony the Core-type course is to enhance the liberal the West has held in the past. Its origins are education by providing a medium in which the debatable, but at least as far back as the Re­intellect can analyze and criticize and thereby naissance the West-and especially, Western grow. The free flow of ideas is essential to such men -has dominated world political and eco­a course. Hinder the flow --whatever the source nomic affairs. In its superior position, the West --and you stunt the intellect. Classicists like to has generated an incredible amount of intellec­overlook this fact. tual writings. This is not ethnocentrism, nor is Given these guiding truisms, a compromise it chauvinism. It is a fact. Revisionists like to syllabus stands as the only reasonable solution overlook this fact. to the problem. Yes, the West has worthy clas­
sics --but so does the East. Ideally a course 
Second, one cannot deny that the non-Western would study all such works, but logistics makes world has also flourished, albeit to a lesser ex­this impossible. Thus the compromise. To its tent. African and Asian civilizations have not credit our Core Course does an excellent job of lain dormant while Rousseau and Darwin presenting a balanced curriculum whose think­gained immortality. They too have contributed ers form a group of diverse origins. The ex­to the world intellect, and only now are we dis­tremist "intellectuals" who descended upon covering these worthy non-Western works. Stanford en masse nearly denied Stanford Classicists like to overl this fact. students such a worthwhile course. 

Crank tunes for Cash!!! 
Are you interested? 
Theodore's D.J. applications for the '88-'89 school year are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor LaFortune. They must be turned in by April 20. 
.r----------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 13, 1988 
The Observer page~ 
•



Porn Pon squad formed by preVIOUS Dancin' Irish 
By NATASHA WILSON Senior Staff Reporter 
The University approved Monday several proposals sub­mitted by previous members of The Dancin' Irish to change the group's name to The Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad and to reconstruct its program. 
The squad's co-captains met Monday afternoon with Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for student services, and Missy Conboy, assistant athletic director, seeking their agreement on the proposed changes. 
Rocca and Conboy are mem­bers of a board established this year by Father David Tyson, vice president of student af-

Fighting 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan-­Spring thaws have opened the mountain supply routes of Mos­lem guerrillas and the seasonal surge of fighting in Afghanis-fairs, to review the Dancin' Irish. 
The Dancin' Irish were oper­ating on a one-year basis after being disbanded briefly last year. 
In addition to the name change, the squad has adopted new objectives and duties. 
"They will become more of a spirit group than a dance group," Rocca said. 
"We intend to promote spirit for students and general audiences at athletic events and to promote the morals and identification of both Notre Dame men and women," states a letter written to Rocca by the group's co-captains. 
"There was a question about how to differentiate us and the cheerleaders," said co-captain Melissa Howe. 
"Porn pon complements cheerleading," said co-captain Erica Hinkle. "Cheerleading is supposed to be more athletic with lots of stunts. Porn pon in­volves performing routines to rhythm cadences and the drum beat, primarily with porn pons in hand," she said. 
The board decided the squad will not attend men's varsity football and basketball games because the cheerleaders at­tend those events, Rocca said. 
The squad will perform at designated non-revenue var­sity sports, as determined by the squad and the coaches of each sport. 
The squad will also continue to represent the University at Jookstore pep rallies and through the selling of programs during football weekend. 
During football season the squad will participate in the procession with the band, cheerleaders and Irish Guard to the pep rallies at Stephen Center. 
Further participation by the group in the rallies wil be decided later, said co-captain Hinkle. 
"We are definitely pleased with the changes. We will be­come more representative of what Notre Dame is," Hinkle said. 
"We will still be involved with the athletic tradition of Notre Dame and will give recognition to the non-revenue sports," she added. 
Howe contends that the name change will take away the stereotypes everyone had asso­ciated with the Dancin' Irish. 
"We have to start from the very beginning and build from there. We're glad (the Admin­istration has) given us a chance to grow," she said. 
The Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad will consist of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege female students. 
The co-captains said they will hold an organizational meeting on April13 from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
The meeting is open to all stu­dents. 
• 


resumes 1n Afghanistan despite pact 
tan has begun despite a U.N.­sponsored accord on Soviet military withdrawal. 
Leaders of the insurgency, which began after a communist coup in April 1978, were not parties to the Geneva agree-
NDAVEAPTS. 
SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AVAILABLE also renting for Fall 
2 Bedrooms completely furnished CALL 234-6647 
Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 




TO DAN GORE 
Break a Leg, Son. 
LEGANT PASSAG 

IS BACK-
Come see our cotton clothing. 
Baja shirts, blankets, cotton sweaters, and more. 
Close-out prices on woolen sweaters. 
LaFortune off Main Lobby 
April 11-14 10-4 p.m. 
ment announced last week and 
have  said  repeatedly  they  
would continue the war.  
Western  diplomats  said  

Tuesday there was a sharp in­crease of military activity in the past two weeks in eastern Afghanistan near Pakistan. About 3.5 million Afghan refugees live in camps and cities just inside Pakistan that serve as bases and supply points for the guerrillas. 
Insurgents overran seven Af­ghan army posts in Logar prov­ince in the first week of April and, on Monday, a 450-unit So­viet convoy including more than 100 armored vehicles headed south toward the prov­ince from Kabul, the diplomats reported. They said the level of fighting appeared normal for early spring. 
Radio Kabul reported that Afghan guerrillas downed a Soviet-built passenger plane near the Soviet border on Sun­day, killing all 29 people aboard. 
Increased fighting also was 
reported in Kandahar and 
Khost. 

The withdrawal agreement is expected to be signed Thursday in Geneva by the the Afghan government and Pakis­tan, with the United States and Soviet Union as guarantors. The guerrillas were not invited to the negotiations and Pakis­
"WHAT DO IDO AFTER 
GRADUATION?" 
You'll have an unequaled cwxtunity to lead manage and be successful. Aim High with .l.lr Force Rare 
CAPT SAM GAGUO 
21 9-239-6634 
STUDENTS ARE CORD~Y I~ED MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION 
DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFACE. 
April's Leader: F'r. Dan Jenky, C. S.C. Topic: "Religious Life & Community" 
Date: Wednesday, April 13, 1988 8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College 
For Further Information: Fr. Michael D. Couhig. C.S.C. Fr. Paul F. Doyle. O.S.C. 
tan acted as their representa­tive. 
In Moscow, an Italian source said Yuli Vorontsov, first dep­uty Foreign Minister, told Ital­ian parliamentarians that 50,000 Soviet soldiers will be withdrawn in the first three months after May 15. 
Soviet soldiers entered Af­ghanistan in December 1979 and Vorontsov's reported statement was the first indica­tion Kremlin officials have given of how many were there. 
Under the accord to be signed in Geneva, the Soviets agree to remove all the troops within nine months of May 15, half of them by Aug. 15. 
Based on the figure given by Vorontsov, the total Soviet force in Afghanistan would be about 100,000. Western sources have estimated it at 115,000. 
Guerrilla leaders have said they would ignore any agree­ment reached without their direct participation, and con­tend that the only real parties to the Afghan conflict are them­selves and the Soviets. 
They consider the govern­ment in Kabul --now led by Najib --to be a Kremlin puppet. 
Diplomatic and other sources reported more fighting in Kandahar, Afghanistan's second-largest city, and said wounded government and So­viet soldiers arrived in Kabul last week. All the sources spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Insurgents knocked out a government radio station in the city March 25 and later did the same to the television station, diplomats said. 
TO 
& 
Vocation Directors PO. Box 541 Notre Dame, ln. 46556 Phone: (219)-239-6385 
--------~-------· 
f 
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988
page 4 The Observer 
' ~ 
t 
' 

Security Beat 
r 
MONDAY, APRIL 11 
3:45 p.m. Notre Dame· Security responded to a minor traffic accident on Juniper Rd. across from the D2 lot. No one was injured and damage was minimal. 
II: 15 a.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported that the rear tire of his bike and 10 speed assembly were stolen from the bike rack at the Washington Hall. The incident occurred sometime between 4:00 p.m. on 4/10 and 5:30 
a.m. on 4/11. His loss is estimated at $60. 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
Father Joseph Carey, rector of Dillon Hall and a member of the task force on residentiality, said he was "concerned about the fact that the alcohol task force seemed to take a legal response to problems as op­posed to a health point of view." 
"More than a class is needed," said Carey. "There's a need for programs on campus; a need for opportunity for alcohol assessment; a need for much more in the way of helping people who abuse alco­hol." 
Sister Annette Giarrante, 
also a member of the task force on residentiality and rector of Pasqtierilla West, said the task force study on residentiality "addresses the whole issue of community, and what residen­tiality is and what we want it to be." 
2:35 p.m. A University employee reported that her purse was stolen from the second floor office of the Law Library. The larceny occurred between 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. Her loss is unknown. 
5:45 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded with the Notre Dame Fire Dept. to a vehicle fire at Gate 4 of the JACC. There were no injuries. 
5:30 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that their boat used in the Fisher Regatta was stolen from St. Mary's Lake sometime between 4/10 and 4/11. Their loss is $30. 

"Residentiality provides space where people can grow --academically, emotionally, spiritually. This was the under­lying thrust of the whole report," she said. 
''The task force affirmed coed housing," said Giarrante. "We have questions if we can duplicate in a coed fashion what we have in single-sex dorms. It will be a challenge to adopt another model of living," she said. 
Giarrante said she thinks the coed housing decision will get the most attention, "but if it is the only thing given attention, people missed the message the task force is trying to give. I hope the whole report doesn't get lost in that issue." 
Polcari said he thought "the coed dorm should be explored. We've been restricting our­selves for too many years." Coed housing would add a new dimension to life at Notre Dame, he said. 
"The interaction between 
7:39 p.m. A resident of Howard Hall reported that she lost her watch somewhere between Howard Hall and St. Mary's College at about 5:00 p.m. Her loss is $150. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 12 
5:17 a.m. A University emp'loyee reported that a parking sign was removed from the front lot of the Faculty Club. Damage is estimated at $95. 
2:10p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported that his bike was stolen from the front door of Grace Hall sometime between 6:00 p.m. on 4/8 and 8:00 
a.m. on 4/9. His loss is $200. 
males and females is definitely hampered by not having (coed dorms)," said Polcari. "We only see each other in an aca­demic setting, not in every day affairs." 
"I would love to live in one," he said. 
One of the possible models for coresidential housing is an "Honors Hall." This hall would select residents based on aca­demic achievement, demon­strated leadership and com­mitment to community life, according to the task force report. 
Grahek said he thinks this type of dorm is "kind of silly. It should be open to anyone willing to try (the new arrange­ment)." 
"I don't think it should be a privilege, it should be an op­tion," he said. 
"I think the task forces will have an impact," said Murtha. "People are talking about it, whether in a positive or nega­tive sense." 

Rozun named Rector of the Year by· HPC 
By DAN MURPHY 
Staff Reporter 

The Hall Presidents Council presented Alumni Rector Fa­ther George Rozum with the Hall Presidents Council's Rec­tor of the Year Award Tuesday night during the HPC banquet at the Tippecanoe Place Res­taurant in South Bend. 
Rozum said the award was unexpected and very flatter­ing. The HPC presented him a plaque which reads "For demonstrating exceptional ef­fort toward the improvement of hall life and establishing better relations between students and the University administra­tion." 
A committee of four hall presidents and an HPC co­chairman selected Rozum from among six nominees. 
The committee was "looking for a specific, concrete attitude that improved resident hall living" said former Lewis Hall president Michelle LaRose. 
The four other nominees were Sorin Rector Father Joseph McKenna, Pasquerilla East Rector Sister Joris Binder, Pasquerilla West Rec­tor Sister Annette Giarrante and Badin Rector Sister Marietta Murphy. 
The HPC presented another plaque to Pasquerilla East, winner of the Sowder Award for overall hall spirit. 
The award goes to the hall that demonstrates the best spirit, creativity and involve­ment in the Notre Dame com­munity, according to former HPC co-chairman Bob Daley. Carrol and Fisher Halls received honorable mentions. 
A secret ballot taken at the banquet declared juniors Mic­helle LaRose and Kerstin White as the new co-chairmen of the HPC. "I felt we could bring something to the HPC" said White, "we take ourselves seriously, but not too seriously, keeping in tradition with Tim and Bob (Salmon and Daley, former co-chairmen)." 
LaRose said the co­chairmen's new ideas include a booklet to help newly-elected hall presidents "get through the red tape, with input from the old presidents." 
White said the HPC can pro­vide a great medium for new ideas, especially if it has strong unity. ''The new presidents are enthusiastic," she said. "They have the potential to be as unified, supportive and cohesive (as the former presi­dents)." 




Politics 
continued from page 1 
row and stretch out his dele­gate lead with the lion's share of the 255 New York delegates at stake. 
R? 
On Tuesday in the AP dele­gate count, Dukakis has 750.15 votes; Jackson, 713.1; Gore, 
396.8 and uncommitted, 506.7. 
"Don't lick your chops too soon, Gov. Dukakis," Gore fired back in the debate. "New York's going to have a bigger say about that than you will." 

( ) PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT ( ) $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD (JII') ALL OF THE ABOVE AT 
JORDAN'S AUTO MALL
FORD MERCURY 
• 
Pre-Approved Credit up to $15,000 

• 
$400 Cash Bonus from Ford 

• 
Up to $1000 Additional Cash Back on selected models 

• 
Register to win dinner for 2 at Union Station Restaurant. Drawing will be held May 1st. 


eSEE SCOTT KARCHUNAS, YOUR ON CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE, AT JORDAN'S AUTO MALL 
r 
.. 
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988 
The Observer page 5 

Peace with Justice Week spotlights various lectures 
By MAURA KRAUSE 
News Staff 
This week marks the 25th an­niversary of the Center for So­cial Concerns' Peace with Jus­tice Week. The CSC began the tradition when Pope John XXIII wrote "Pacem in Ter­ris," meaning peace on earth. 
The CSC has arranged a se­ries of lectures that began last Sunday and will continue through next Sunday. 
The activities planned are meant "to emphasize peace on earth," said Kathleen Maas Weigert, associate director at the esc. 
The lectures are open to the public, said Weigert. 
"It is important to have the conversation on peace con­tinue." People should "reflect on issues with the people in­
volved  with  them,"  Weigert  
said.  
The event  was  coordinated  

by Dan Keusal, Coordinator of Justice and Peace Programs at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The speakers were chosen either because they were ex­perts in their field or because, as was the case with Chaves, they were "Just lucky to get 
. him," as Weigert said. 
Weigert stressed that the event is open to everyone. All are allowed to "share your views," she said. 
Former South Bend Bishop William McManus will speak Wednesday at 7:30p.m. at the CSC. McManus' lecture is en­titled "Can Deterrence be Im­moral?" McManus will evalu­ate the peace pastorial, "The Challenge of Peace," written in 1983. 
Thursday night at 7:30p.m. Aldon and Betsy Bell will pres­ent a program, "People to People.'' This talk concerns the trip which 31 Seattle Washing­ton citizens took to visit their sister city in the Soviet Union, delivering a message of peace. 
The events began Sunday night when Father Drew Chris­tiansen, professor of theology, spoke about his work on "Pacem in Terris" 25 years ago. 
Monday's speaker, Cesar Chaves, spoke on the United Farm Workers grape boycott. The boycott was planned to call attention to pestides used in grape production. 
Real Estate Anal~st Program 
let Our High-Powered Program Be APrelude To Your MBA! 
Want some rock solid investment real estate 
experience before proceeding with your graduate 
education? Then consider this great opportunity 
with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest owner 
of income producing real estate. 
We're looking for enthusiastic, intelligent BA's and 
BS's (who are already planning to attend a top 
business school in 1990) for two year stints in our 
real estate analyst program. To qualify, you'll need 
a B+ or better undergraduate GPA and the skills 
required for complex mathematical real estate 
modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
Not only do these positions provide outstanding 
on-the-job training and experience, they offer very 
attractive starting salaries with comprehensive 
benefits. 

To apply, send your resume (including GPA) to: 
The Prudential Realty Group Detroit Realty Group Office 2000 Town Center, Suite 2280 Southfield, Michigan 48075 Attention: Analyst Program 
The Prudential ~ 
Realty Group 


' 

_...Jl <\to 
I 
·'·""' --.. "' 

.-::.~~=:~:;·~; I' --=~-~:­
:...-.*---;:"'.,-:.:---....:;--::r~·-.-:-.. : 

-:::-;;=:E:-:::.::=:~::" t < 
-1...... 

Little Italy The Observer/Trey Reymond 
George Travers and friend dine in the lap of luxury. their experiences in the dining halls and the finer Students are trained in culinary excellence through eating estabtishments in South Bend. 


Reagan 'outraged' by fake quotes 





SUMMER EMPLOYMENT $250/WK.
For further information, attend our meeting at: 10:00, 12:00, 2:00, 4:00 or 6:00 
DATE: Wednesday, April 13th PLACE: Career and Placement Services (Hesburgh Library) 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN INDIANA, OHIO AND MICHIGAN 
Associated Press In another instance, when a 
Korean Air Lines passenger jet 
WASHINGTON--The White was shot down by the Soviets House said Tuesday that Pres­in 1983, the president "had al­ident Reagan was upset and it most nothing to say" during was an "outrage" that former meetings with the Cabinet and presidential spokesman Larry Congressional leaders, Speakes had made up quotes Speakes said. So, he said, he and given them to reporters as took statements made by Sec­Reagan's words. retary of State George Shultz 
"Everyone is appalled that and attributed them to Reagan. he made up quotes," said Fitzwater, at a news briefing spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, dominated by questions about who replaced Speakes 14 Speakes' revelation, blasted months ago. his predecessor, who in his six 
In a kiss-and-tell book that years as White House spokes­has roiled White House offi­man had boasted that he never cials, Speakes disclosed that he lied to the press. made up a widely reported "It's a damned outrage, statement that was attributed that's what it is," Fitzwater to Reagan during his first sum­said. mit with Soviet leader Mikhail "I resent it so much. It casts Gorbachev in 1985. asperions on the presidency 

Don't drink and drive 




and on my position . .It's wrong.... He shouldn't have done it and ... I won't do it," Fitzwater said. 
He said he had not talked to the president, "but I'm sure he would be upset about it. I'm sure he is." 
Conservative leaders who met with Reagan on Tuesday also were angry. ''I think Larry Speakes has done a disservice to the president," said Peter Flaherty, chairman of Citizens for Reagan. 
Paul Weyrich, head of the Free Congress Foundation, said, "The president is ill­served by all of these people who are in public service and then write books the minute they get out and reveal things that ought not to be revealed. 
"All they're in it for is making a buck ... and frankly, they ought to be ashamed of themselves," Weyrich said. 
Speakes had no reaction to the White House statements. "I'd be better off not to com­ment," he said in a telephone interview from New York, where he is vice president for 
communications  at  Merrill  
Lynch Corp.  
However,  he  offered  no  

apologies, saying "It's an honest book." 

Platform 
continued from page 1 
evident, Farley said, in the del­egate's rejection of self­determination for the Contras and a free state for Palestine. 
Gilligan, Notre Dame class of 1942 and Director of the In­stitute for International Peace Studies, stressed the impor­tance of a strong, well-thought out platform. 
The platform, he said, is the instrument which will either rally or strangle the candidates which it represents. 
He asked the delegates to present a platform that would create a more humane society. 
The convention continues Wednesday night with the elec­tion of a presidential nominee. 
The activities will begin at 7 
p.m. and will include a keynote address by Indiana Senator Dan Quayle via interactive 
satalite. 

Wednesday, April 13, 1988

page 6 The Observer 
Marine killed on patrol in Panama; caught in U.S. soldiers' crossfire 

Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama--A Marine sentry was killed at an American military facility, and U.S. officials said he ap­parently was caught in cros­sfire between fellow guards on a night search for intruders. 
A Pentagon spokesman in Washington said the identity of the intruders was not known, but members of the Panamanian Defense Forces are thought to have slipped into the facility before. 
A spokesman for the U.S. Southern Command in Panama said there was "no reason at all at this time to suspect" that the Panamanian military was involved in Monday's shooting. He said it appeared to be an accident. 

The disaster was the second to befall U.S. troops in Panama on Monday. Earlier, two helicopters collided on a run­way at another base about 50 miles away, injuring eight sol­diers. 
The Pentagon spokesman, Dan Howard, said there have been a series of intrusions at Howard Air Force Base in the past several weeks by "in­dividuals who were uniformed and camouflaged." 
"When one has intruders into the base perimeter, who are in uniform and are camouflaged, the assumption that one comes to is that of course they are" members of the Panamanian Defense Forces, Howard said. 
However, Martin Alberto Paz, a spokesman for the Panamanian military, said the Defense Forces had "ab­solutely nothing to do this" shooting. 
And Lt. Cmdr. Doug Schamp, a U.S. Navy spokesman at­tached to the Southern Com­mand, said "we have ab­solutely no indication" the Defense Forces were involved in the shooting. 
The dead man was identified as Cpl. Ricardo Villahermosa, 25, of Santuce, Puerto Rico. 


Oscars receive best ratings in five years; "The Last Emperor" sweeps the awards 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES--Viewers tuning in to watch Cher and her eye-popping dress helped the Academy Awards show rack up what may have been its best television ratings in five years. 
Viewers who stuck out the full three hour, 33-minute telecast Monday night also saw "The Last Emperor," filmed amid the imperial splendor of Beijing's Forbidden City, sweep all nine awards for which it was nominated. 
The show, broadcast live on ABC-TV, had a rating of 37.7 and a 59 share, according to an overnight survey of the 15larg­est cities by the A.C. Nielsen Company. The rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million homes with television. The share is a percentage of sets in use. The numbers may change as other areas are counted. 

National overnight ratings were expected later Tuesday. 
"I'm so staggered. I don't know what to say about it," Producer Samuel Goldwyn Jr. said Tuesday about the ratings for the 60th Annual Academy Awards. 
The last time the Oscars show rated higher was in 1983, when it got a 38.0 and 59. Last year, the show had a national rating of 27.5 and a 43 share, according to Nielsen. 
Cher's sheer, sequined Bob Mackie-designed dress left little to the imagination when she won the best actress Oscar for "Moonstruck." Another best-actress nominee, Sally Kirkland, showed up in a black gown with a deep plunging neckline. 
The other acting winners were Michael Douglas, best ac­tor for "Wall Street"; Sean Connery, best supporting actor for "The Untouchables"; and Olympia Dukakis, best sup­porting actress for "Moonstruck." 
The Observer I Trey Raymond
War and Peace 

As exams near, students study EVERYWHERE! These academics choose to utilize the Clark Memorial Fountain at their personal desks. 





MAKE YOUR VOICE HEARD 
The students' response to the Task Force Reports: Times and Dates of students' response meetings 
DATE DORMS 4-14 Carroll I Holy Cross I Lewis 4-14 Flanner 4-18 Stanford I Farley I St. Ed 4-18 Grace­4-19 PWIPE 4-19 Morrissey I Howard I Badin 4-20 Alumni I Dillon 4-20 Walsh I Sorin I Cavanaugh 4-21 Keenan I BPI Zahm 4-21 Fisher I Pangborn I Lyons 
• 

PLACE Lewis Flanner Stanford Grace PW Morrissey Dillon Cavanaugh Keenan Fisher TIME 
6:30 9:00 6:30 9:00 6:30 9:00 6:30 9:00 
6:30 •
9:00 
Task Force members will be there to answer questions. The dialogues from the meetings will effect policy decisios. 

BE THERE! 

...it's your chance to ask questions and express your opinion. 
• 

(Feel free to attend any of the meetings.) : 
L----------------------------­





Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988 page 7 
P.O. Box Q 
Reader shares ANC experience 
Dear Editor: 
March 25 you published a letter by 
Ron Kunkel who shares with your 
readers his opinions on the African Na­
tional Congress (ANC) in response to 
remarks made by Professor Walshe. 
Kunkel writes that the ANC is "an ex­
tremely violent terrorist organization 
which is supported by the Soviet Union 
and its allies;" it is "abhorred by the 
vast majority of black South Africans;" 
it wishes "to impose a brutal commu­
nist regime upon the people of South 
Africa." All these are, Kunkel asserts, 
"well documented facts." 
Since Kunkel did not refer to any sources, may I perhaps be permitted to share some personal experience re­garding the ANC? I used to live in the Southern African region for three years earlier on in this decade. Among my tasks was to care to some measure for South African refugees. Some of the refugees were ANC members; some were members of the Pan-African Congress <PAC); some were union members and union officials; some were school children. Some joined the ANC while in exile; others didn't. 
In the countries I worked in, the ANC had ambitious programs to provide housing, farmland and education to their members and members' children. I personally assisted in obtaining, dis­bursing and accounting for funds to pay for housing, to acquire farmland, to in­stitute vocational training programs, to pay for primary, secondary and ter­tiary education as well as other pro­grams. I knew some ANC members quite well. Some were my co-workers; some were refugees; a few were ex­patriates, mostly from Britain. 
With some of the ANC members I hit it off well. We were friends, and our children played together in the yard. There were others whom I disliked greatly on account of their per­sonalities. There were some who openly vowed to "avenge death with death;" there were others (the ANC leadership, as a matter of fact) who urged restraint. 
Assistance for the programs the ANC ran came from all over the world. Poland, the Soviet Union, yes, but also from the United States, West Germany and the Netherlands. They all provided 
Doonesbury 
funds to train ANC members in all 
kinds of vocations. The governments of 
Sweden and Norway provided funds for 
purposes of education, health and other 
social services as well as for ANC con­
ferences. Churches from all over the 
globe contributed money to acquire 
what refugees need to set up a tempo­
rary home in exile. 

In traveling through the region I cer­
tainly failed to hear that the "vast 
majority of black South Africans" ab­
hor the ANC. While some members of 
the Congress are self-professed com­
munists, I would hazard to say most 
aren't. What does the Congress want? 
It wants freedom, it wants a voice and 
a vote. It does not want to "impose a 
brutal communist regime." For one 
thing, South Africa presently has one. 
No sensible person would want to 
replace one such regime with another. 
For that matter, I don't think anyone 
could impose such a regime on South 
Africa, once free--certainly not the 
Congress. I think it is much too heter­
ogeneous to achieve such a feat. 
I conclude on another personal note: 
while living in the region I hae seen 
many white people with, indeed, abhor­
rent attitudes, racial and otherwise. As 
for the Africans, I have learned great 
respect and appreciation. I can't imag­
ine a "brutal" free South Africa. 
Jurgen Brauer Off-campus March 29, 1988 

ANC displays many faces 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Zandra Mencer's letter printed in the Apr. 6 edition of The Observer correcting the "inaccuracies" of an earlier letter writ­ten on the African National Congress hy Ron Kunkel. I would like to point out that her letter, itself, contains both inaccuracies and unsubstantiated, though colorful, claims. 
She claims, for instance, that neither the ANC nor its leaders condone neck­lacing. In fact, in an evening news report by one of the major networks on necklacing in South Africa, Willie Man­dela was videotaped before a group of ANC members not only condoning necklacing but advocating it for those who opposed or stood in the way of the goals of the ANC. (Of course, this leads us to ask: Will the African National 
Congress, if it comes to power, defend 
and protect the rights it claims and 
struggles for itself for non-member 
blacks and whites? In light of certain 
facts, we can't help but think the an­
swer to this question is no.) 
No one supports apartheid. But in our 
opposition we must be careful not to 
uncritically jump to the support of the 
African National Congress. The ANC 
has many faces, and the face they 
choose to put forward depends upon the 
group they are dealing with amilor 
seeking sympathy and support from. 
They present themselves differently to 
the Western public than they do to the 
Communist governments which sup­
port them, the current South African 
government, and the blacks who oppose 
them. Zandra Mencer should not be so 
quick to judge Ron Kunkel's letter, nor 
to accept the face the ANC puts forward 
to the West. All of us share her opposi­
tion to this institutional, economic and 
social evil of apartheid, but we must 
proceed in our opposition with an ac­
tivism informed by a perceptive and 
critical mind. 

Joshua P. Fink St. Edward's Hall April 7, 1988 

Power entai Is responsibility 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Bob Dowd's letter in the March 23 edition, concerning the U.S. troop deployment in Honduras. Mr. Dowd states that he and the rest of Pax-Christi Notre Dame are not " ... so naive as to believe that the issues involved are simple." I agree with him completely in that there are no simple issues involved in the decison to send 3200 solderis to Central America. However, after reading the rest of his letter, I am not so sure that he is not being naive. 
Mr. Dowd, in calling for the withdraw! of the U.S. troops, claims that the deployment shows that the Reagan administration is not inter­ested in peace in Central America. Mr. Dowd and the rest of Pax Christi are completely wrong in this assumption. Contrary to what Pax Christi may believe, the president is not out to per­petuate a war. The goal of the Reagan administration is peace in Central America, but they will not sacrifice 
Garry Trudeau 
1 CAN'TI£T YOU (){}(JTU/?IJM "f. NO MORE
~0(, A5 A TOPAIO~ FOR GCORE£ 
I HAVE HeRe A U5T OF 12 
fJ(J5H, I JlJ5TWAN7W 7D FlU. 
POSITIONS, Au. OF 7HCM 
l/~ OfCWRSC, 81.JTIA£ti.VWTW 5PORJI3 JAt:J<E713 AMAJOR 
YOlJ 7D I<JI()(AJ 50ME OF THE THAT LaJK. UI<E
COURAGEal5 lJ&V!ATIONS
YOU IN ON 5CM1~ CXOTIN6 
BREAK.

WAYS IN WHICH A BUSHAPMIN-THe CARP&TI/1¥3
{}f;VCI.LJPMEW7'31N TH& CANlJI-
FROM THE R&A6AN 
P./17H7H&

15TRATION IUILL /JifFCR FRIJMMl?. ATCAE!i4R5
PH!l050PHY.' "
TH!NJ(JNG.' " 

It PAST! 
rn,,_...•'-"• 
I 

democracy and human rights to attain that peace. The U.S.-backed contras have gone to the negotiating tables with Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega before, but the reason that there is no peace is not that the contras want to keep fighting the war, it is that Ortega's terms have never been acceptable. 
Pax Christi also claims that the U.S. troops are there to "directly engage in war." This is a blatant falsehood. From the moment the sending of U.S. troops came about, it has been planned and made known that none of these troops would be anywhere near any of the fighting along the Honduras-Nicaragua border. In fact, reports have come back to the effect that some of the soldiers are bored because their situation is just like any other training exercise they would perform back in America. The 
U.S. is not engaging in open warfare. 
Pax Christi would like to see the pur­surit of "peaceful solutions to conflict." Believe it or not, so would the Reagan administration, the contras, and the 3200 American soldiers in Honduras. In fact, that is exactly what the troop deployment is--a peaceful measure in response to an urgent situation, which is the Nicaraguan intrusion into Hon­duras to destroy the Contra forces. The 
U.S. troops will not engage in any con­flicts. 
Pax Christi feels all peaceful means should be exhausted before engaging in war. This is an ideal I wholeheartedly support. What Pax Christi needs to realize, however, is that there are times when peaceful solutions simply will not work. If the contras stopped fighting now so that they could pursue "peaceful solutions," they would be completely defeated, giving the Sandinistas free reign in Nicaragua, and soon after, in most of Central America. 
What Pax Christi needs to realize is that peace doesn't just happen, you have to struggle to achieve it and strive to maintain it. To do so by peaceful means is everyone's goal. But it must also be realized that when peaceful means failure, one must be prepared to fight to survive so that one can be able to keep looking for those peaceful means. 
Kevin Gopon Morrissey Hall March 29, 1988 


Quote of the Day 
"Art Is an effort to create, beside the real world, a more human world." 
Andre Maurols 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-In~.......................................... Chria Murphy Bu.Jneu Man.gt~r..................................Jolin Olaidlt Managing Editor ..................................Chrla Donnelly Advertillng {)qjgn Manager .................... Moly K*n
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 News Editor.............................. .............. Ragle Coccia AdvertJaJnfJ IWena(1er .................... Unda Gl*llac:hlllllf News Editor.............................. ........Mark Mcl.aughlin Producllon Manager ....................... .,....., ~ v•polnt Editor.................................... Matt Slaughter S)'llllm1 Manager.............................. Waltl ~ 
The Observer os the ondependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Spot11 Editor .......................................... Marty Sir_, Controller............................................ TOdd Hlldnwl
Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ..............................................B411h Healy Graphic Alii M811ager............. . . . ......... Marga 81\1111
the admtnistratoon of erther onstrtution. The News is repon.,d as accurately and objectively as 
Saint "'-Y'• Editor ............................. Sendy Cerimele
possoble. Unt~gned editorials represent the oponion of the majOrity of the Editorial Board 
Photo Editor ............................. ............Michael Morwo
Commentanas. leners and the Inside Column present the views of theor authors. Column space os available to all members of the school community. and the frH expression of varying opinions on campus. through leiters. is encouraged 
------~ ~------~ 


Accent 
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988 




T
accent writer ired of movies about babies or about fathers and sons switching places? MGM's new thriller "Masquerade" provides a brilliant interweaving of romance, mystery, suspense, deceit and murder to create a quick-paced, enjoyable motion picture. 
"Masquerade" stars Rob Lowe as Tim Whaian, a young yachtsman who finds himself in a deceptive game of love and murder. Tim becomes romanti­cally involved with Brooke Mor­rison (Kim Cattrail), his boss's wife. But at a party, Tim gets his first glimpse of Olivia Lawrence (Meg Tilly). a young, naive and very rich heiress who returns to town after the death of her widowed mother. Olivia moves in with Tony Gateworth (John Glover), her drunken, conniving stepfather who decides to somehow get her fortune. 
Eventually, Tim and Olivia fall in love, which leaves Brooke feeling neglected and angry. It is then that the masquerade begins to unfold. 
In a mysterious scene be­tween Tim and Tony, the audi­ence discovers that the two are working together in a plot to get Olivia's money. In the meantime, the heiress bumps into an old friend, Mike McGill (Doug Savant), who is a policeman. It is Mike who is a key figure in the movie's finale. 
Things really become thrill­ing when Tim and Tony plan to murder Olivia. While the two lovers are in bed, a drunken Tony stumbles into the room pretending to want to shoot · Tim. There is a struggle for the gun, planned to convince Olivia that Tim is really in love with her. However, plans go awry, and the wrong person is shot and killed. 
The already fast-paced movie becomes a whirlwind of suspense and intrigue as it prepares the audience for the finale. There are a search for a murderer, a surprise witness, a marriage, another revealed masquerade and three addi­tional deaths. The finale be­comes a race against time that puts the lives of all the major characters in imminent 

jeopardy. 
The performances in the film are fabulous. Lowe develops his acting talent by taking on a challenging role which is unlike any of his previous ones. Tilly, nominated for an Oscar for her performance in "Agnes of God," does a brilliant job as a naive, lonely girl caught in a web of deception. Recently a star in "Hanoi Hilton," Savant has an opportunity to play a multi-faceted man as well as to gain some great publicity from this outstanding film. 
Most importantly, this movie 

Notre Dame becomes more 
SARAH VOIGT percent over last year's record-accent writer breaking. high." Based on the applicant pool, One recent trend is an in-
the incoming freshman creased percentage of minority class promises to be full of applicants. Rooney speculates superlatives. It appears that the that the incoming freshman class of 1992 will have the most minority students, the This year the pool of most children of alumni, and 9,635 applicants for will be the most selective of any class in the history of the 1,800 spots was the University. These unprece­
University's biggest 

dented trends are making it 
ever.

tougher than ever to get into Notre Dame. class will have the highest 
Kevin Rooney, director of percentage of minority stu­undergraduate admissions, dents ever. "The amount describes the dramatic surplus should surpass last year's of applications. "This year the record of I I percent minority pool of 9, 635 applicants for students," he said. I,800 spots was the Univer-Another interesting admis­sity's biggest ever. The number sions statistic concerns of applicants has increased 20 children of alumni. This year 25 or 30 more children of 
alumni were admitted than last 
year. This is surprising because 
25 percent of the class of 1991 
consists of children of alumni. 
Ever wonder how Notre Dame 
graduates almost instinctively 
travel back to campus for an 
annual football game in their green plaid pants? For many alums it is hereditary. 
Rooney said that the appli­cant pool has stayed steady the last few years at about 61 per­cent men and 39 percent wo­men. This year's freshman class consists of about 64 per­cent men. So, it is easier for men to get into Notre Dame but only by about 3 to 4 per­cent. 
Last year about 100 more 

women were accepted due to 
: Looking forward to 
I Siegfried and Knott 
1 COLLEEN CRONIN \ accent writer could there be a little more consruction? 
With all the renovation on campus, we tend to become immune to it after a while and don't even notice any progress being made. l'lorth Dining Hall seems to have been in this erector set-like stage for months, and just dust has been flying around Nieuwland for weeks. But since the year began, I have watched some definite progress from my window in Farley. I've witnessed--and listened to--two dorms burst into existence. There will soon be no more dump trucks and tractors at 7 a.m. because the finishing touches are being put on these new dorms that will be ready for the fall semester. 
Located next to the Pasquerillas, and looking almost exactly like them, these dorms are dubbed Siegfried and Knott. They are 
' reserved for female Darners, which is either a relief or a dismay, depending on your persuasion. One hundred and fifty girls are already transferring to them next semester from their present dorms. It does seem strange to want to transfer into a new dorm, but these girls had a variety of reasons. 
Probably the most popular reason is the fact that these are completely new dorms, and so will have new people and new traditions. Maureen Finnegan, a sophomore, decided to transfer into Siegfried "to get to know new and neat people--there will be
Ii a lot of transfer students." Tracey Shelton, a freshman, is "excited 
1to meet different people." This whole new circle of girls will be 
!responsible for what will become Siegfried and Knott traditions. "I 
j really don't know what to expect with spirit," says Ronda Randle, 
,a sophomore, "but I hope to start something new and different."

I Room and roommate situations also prompted some of these girls to move. According to Ronda, transferring to Knott meant "a better chance to get a quad since there aren't many in Lewis." Tracey will be rooming with a girl from another dorm. Transfer­ring to a new dorm was a compromise between the two. One junior, who has had terrible luck with roommates the past three years and is "tired of room picks" in her present dorm, asked a couple of friends to move over to Knott with her. 
It will be only a matter of a few years before Siegfried and Knott become part of the family and not just "those new girls' dorms." Their traditions and spirits will be going strong, and all we will need then is some new male dorms to keep that 
seven-to-three ratio! 
entertains--like very few of the newly released films. It is a roller coaster ride from begin­ning to end, full of shocks, plot twists and role reversals. Set in a world quite like that of Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby," "Masquerade" depicts the disin­tegration of the lives of these rich characters. For those viewers who hate "corny," happy endings, this movie ends in death and shambles. However, it still presents a ray of hope and love in the final scene. 
selective 
the conversion of Howard Hall 
into a women's dorm. Rooney 
said that there is a four-year 
plan in effect that will slowly 
increase the amount of women 
accepted in order to fill 
Siegfried and Knott, the two 
new women's dorms. 

When asked to name the worst part of his job as director of admissions, Rooney responded, "The hardest part is to have to say no to so many well qualified students." If you happen to have friends or even brothers or sisters that did not get accepted here this year, console them with the facts. Certainly the size and the quality of the·applicant pool for the class of 1992 may be the biggest and best yet. 

The only bad thing about the film is that, due to the major role the element of surprise plays, it is not a movie people will want to see more than once. 
"Masquerade" is a fascinat­ingly complex and intriguing film which entertains its 
. viewers with a remarkable com­bination of many elements. With the prices of movies as high as they are and with the recent number of "copycat" films, it's great to attend a movie like this. 
WVFI 640 am TOP TEH 
compiled from playlists, 
April 5-12 
1) Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians "Flesh Number One (Beatie Dennis)" 
2) Morrissey "Suedehead" 
3) The Mighty Lemon Drops 'Inside Out" 
4) The Woodentops "Maybe It Won't Last" 
5) Scruffy the Cat "You Dirty Rat" 
6) Midnight Oil "The Dead Heart" 
7) The Church "Spark" 
8) Firehose "She Paints Pictures" 
9) The Laughing Hyenas "Hell's Kitchen" 
10) Material Issue 
J 
"Chance of a Lifetime" 

Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, April 13, 1988 page 9 
Sports Lists 
WHo·s OH FIRST? 
Average Major League Salaries by Position* 
First Basemen Third Basemen Catchers Designated Hitters Outfielders Second Basemen Starting Pitchers Shortstops Relief Pitchers $724,085 $685,680 $647,072 $646,768 $577,313 $530,415 $529,206 $513,174 $303,610 

*Average salary: $412,454 in 1987 SOURCE: MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION 
GEOFF SAUER and MARGA BRUNSfThe Observer 
Bookstore Basketball 
Tueaday'o Reaulta 

Bookotore 9 Stony Island Ave .. over 4 RA's and .by 13 Emollonally exhausted over Jama1can Bobsled­ders by 5 Hahn's Funeral Home over The g1v1ng tree by 
11 
All the Pres1dents Men II over Chicken Heads by 8 
Bookotore 10 AF ROTC over Floor La•mbeer by 11 Tequ11a While Llghtn~ng over The Fun Bunch by 13 
Murph and the MaJIC Tones over Wet ArmadillOs by 12 The New Tumbleweeds over Hutch's Love Walms by 11 
Lyon• 11 Tank and the Fun Boys over Watenng Hole by 
a 
Bo1nkers over Vermin Cong by 10 SOS over JeH and h1s roommates by 7 Sl1ll Fnends ot Chria Nann1 over Prime Time 
Scoots by 3 Lyon• 12 
Swaggert, Reagan and 3 other guys...over The Mad Lat1n Lover by 3 Dogged by the Steenng Cornm•nee over If We 
Score You Stink by 13 Sp~day's Nener's over The Disturbed by 14 The C1t1zens over B~g Plans by 13 
Stepan 1 M1nd the Gap over, Spuds by 6 The Explos1ve Packages over Soc1ety of Men Eng1neers 
The Explos•ve Packages over Society of Men Engineers by t5 A SMC chick, a doormat, and 3 other over The Bumblebees 24 to 22 Son of 211 over Skoad Men by 5 
Stepen 2 K1nkoids over Madison Ave. Hoopers by 11 Plug Players over We always play In the rain by6 The MBA's over One spud, 3 seints, ...by 3 The Skirts over The Wedge, the Hoos1er.... by 12 
Stepen 3 5 Slamma Jamma over Faculty Jokes by 9 Fire 011Jger over The Package...by 6 The Watus1 over 5 guys who want..by 5 Censored over Does Anyone Want to Play .. by 12 Censored over Does anyone want to play..by 12 
Stepen 4 Uncle Fester and the Chiefs over Gel Out of My Face by 16 Do you know anyth1ng...over Grover's Revenge 
by 4 Look for us ..over Jack Daniel's All-Stars by 14 Shaggy and the Mystery Machine over The Magnanimous chubb1es by 10 
Stepan 5 Long on the Yen over Katanna Win ... by 9 Tofu's laat Gig over Transport Phenomena by 
7 
L1ona of the ...over The All Bndget by 16 Mallc1ous Prosecution over A couple of Hacks by 12 
Stepan 6 Dukes of the Slam over Stationary Motion 24 to 22 Carver H1gh over 4 couch potatoes by 10 We're pathetic so you...over Mike Jones and 4 guys by 10 Orange Blossom SpeCial over St. Michael's ... by 
14 Stepan 7 3 BimbO's and the Horses ... over The ltenerant Nomads by 4 
Wedneaday'o Gameo Bookotore 9 
4:00 -Long on the Yen vs. Tofu's Last G1g 
4:45 -Kernels vs. Corporate Raiders 
5:30 -Reverse Peristalso vs. Brace Yourselves 
6:15 -Flipper and the Undertoads vs. Chip's 
Bar Bookotore 10 
4:00 -Lions of the tribe of Judah vs. Malicious Prosecution 
4:45 -LSP vs. The-Tors 
5:30 -Top Guns vs. The Linebacker Lingerie 6:15-Tookey Masters vs. Several Species of 
Lyon• 11 

4:00 -Carver High vs. Dukes of the Slam 
4:45 -Return ot the lugilive guys vs. 5 guys who follow triangle... 
5:30 -Jimmy Swaggert, Jim Baker, and... vs. Double Hems 6:15-Somfaw's Return vs. Fat's Runnin' Qners 
Lyons 12 

4:00 -We're pathetic so you ..vs. Orange Blos­som Special 
4:45 -5 guys and no girls: the NO...vs. The Mich1gan Connection 
5:30 -Jolly Green Giant vs. Les Mis and the Return of the Smw1s 6:15-The 4 Horsemen...vs. OB's Pub 
Stepan 1 

4:00 -5 Slamma Jamma vs. Fire Digger 4:45-Who's Next vs. Sly and the Family Stone 
5:30 -Butch and the Boxcars vs. IKE 
6:15 -Minahoonies vs. Look Who Bought the 
Myth Stepan 2 
4:00 -The Watusi vs. Censored 
4:45 · Disgruntled Rastafarians vs. Put the Power... 
5:30 -The Maccubees vs. SCB Club 
6:15 -A Pilot and 4 guys...vs. Men on Men Stepon 5 
4:00 -Do you know anything ...vs. Look for Us 
4:45 -The team that couldn't think...vs. Bayliss Boys 
5:30 -Put it in the hole vs. 4 men and a red headed... 6:15-4 brothers and a sweet J vs. Dan Jansen, Oebi Thomas... 
Stepan 6 4:oo -Shaggy and the Mystery Machine vs. Uncle Fester and the Chiefs 
4:45 -Blair's Cousin vs. Whabus and his 4 friends 
5:30 -Kemsey likes linle bOys vs. The grounds keepers 
6:15-The Ministers of Pain vs. We Don't Need a Center 
Mud Volleyball· 
Final Sixteen 

Six Doors and a Knob vs. TK Has Word 
Jeanne-Jeanne & the Earthworms vs. ·Scum Frogs 
No Excuses vs. Pulsators 

Murph's Revenge vs. Big Bamboo Irish Setters vs. Hedonists or Here's Mud in Your Eye 
Pinga Heads vs. Beaks & Other Ducklings or Mud & Guts 
Land Crabs vs. The Dirtier the Better 
Opprimemus Vos vs. Michael Miller's Team 
National League 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Chicago  5  2  .714  
Pinsburgh  4  2  .667  .5  
New York  4  3  .571  1  
Philadelphia  3  3  .500  1.5  
Montreal  2  5  .286  3  
St. louis  2  5  .286  3  
West  
Los Angeles  5  1  .633  
Houston  5  1  .833  
Cincinnati  4  2  .667  1  
San Francisco  4  3  .571  1.5  
San Diego  1  5  .167  4  
Atlanta  0  7  .o  5.5  

Tueaday'o Results New York 3, Montreal 1 Houston 8, Atlanta 3 St. Louis 7, Chicago 5 Los Angeles at San Diego, late Cincinnati at San Francisco, late 
Wedneaday'o Gameo Chicago at St. Louis Cincinnati at San Francisco Houston at Atlanta Philadelphia at Pittsburgh Los Angeles at San Diego 
American League 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB New York 6 1 .857 Cleveland 6 2 .750 .5 Boston 4 3 .571 2 Detroit 4 3 .571 2 Toronto 4 4 .500 2.5 Milwaukee 2 4 .333 3.5 
Baltimore 0 7 .0 6 Weal 
Oakland 4 2 .667 Kansas City 4 3 .571 .5 Chicago 3 3 .500 1 Minnesota 3 3 .500 1 
Seanle 3 3 .500 1 California 2 4 .333 2 Texas 2 5 .286 2.5 
Tueaday'o Reoults Boston 3, Milwaukee 1 
Detroit 4, Texas 1 Kansas City 6, Baltimore 1 Minnesota 7, Cleveland 6 New York 12, Toronto 3 
Chicago at California, late Oakland at Seanle, late 
Wedneaday'o Games Milwaukee at Boston Kansas City at Baltimore Minnesota at Cleveland New York at Toronto 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Lacrosse vs. LAKE FOREST Baseball vs. NORTHWESTERN 
Thursday Golf at Kepler lntercollegiates, Columbus, Ohio Soccer vs. Indiana at Indianapolis 
Friday Women's tennis at Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville Golf at Kepler lntercollegiates 
Saturday Women's tennis at SlU-E Lacrosse vs. DENNISON Baseball vs. DETROIT (2) Men's tennis vs. INDIANA STATE and OHIO Track at Stanford Golf at Kepler lntercollegiates 
Sunday Baseball vs. DETROIT (2) Golf at Kepler lntercollegiates 
Monday 

No sports scheduled 
Tuesday 

Baseball at Western Michigan 
Irish Baseball 
Through Monday 

BATTER 
Mike Rotkis, DH 
Craig Pavlina, C 
Greg Vogele, OF 
Dan Peltier, OF 
Pat Pesavento, SS 
lim Hutson, 1 B Chris Flynn, DH James Sass, OF 
Ed Lund, 1B 
Mike Moshier, 28 
Mike Coss, 38 Pat O'Brien, C Jeff Knight, C Steve Skupien, 3B David Legus, 1 B 
Terry Andryslak, OF David Yawman, C John Flanagan, OF 
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS 
GP 
7 
9 
17 
33 
33 
33 30 32 33 33 
28 17 
9 
18 
6 
24 11 7 
33 33 
AB 6 7 13 109 118 
107 92 97 77 106 
73 
40 
12 
35 
8 
55 14 4 
973 969 
R 2 1 7 31 40 
24 13 18 18 19 
14 6 
1 
B 
0 
7 2 1 
212 155 
H 3 3 5 39 42 
37 28 29 21 26 
17 9 
2 
5 
' 
4 
1 
0 
272 262 

Scoreboard 
Results lor Apr. 6 through Apr. 12 
Baseball Notre Dame 14, Xavier 2 Notre Dame 13, Xavier 2 Notre Dame 6, Xavier 1 Notre Dame 7, Xavier 6 Purdue 11 , Notre Dame 7 
Lacrosse Notre Dame 7, Kenyon 6 (2 OD 
Tennis 

Men Michigan State 5, Notre Dame 4 Notre Dame 6, Louisville 0 Southern Illinois 5, Notre Dame 4 Notre Dame B. Bradley 2 
Women Northwestern 6, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame B, Toledo 1 Notre Dame 8, Purdue 0 
MCC Baseball 
MIDWESTERN COLLEGIATE CONFERENCE 
Northern Division 

Notre Dame Dayton Detroit Xavter  Dlvtalon w LPet. 6 2.750 2 2.500 0 0.000 0 4.000  w 20 6 13 5  OVerall L Pet. 13 606 12 333 10 .565 21 192  
Southern Divisio n  
Evansville St. LOUIS Butler  0 0 0  0.000 0.000 0.000  21 8 6  8 12 11  .724 .400 .353  

Top two in each dlvis1on compete 1n MCC Tourn­ament. Winner of tournament race1ves automatk: bid 
to NCAA tournament.  
2B  3B  HR  RBI  
1  0  0  2  
1  0  0  5  
1  0  0  3  
15  0  3  32  
3  2  1  16  
5  1  9  35  
8  0  5  24  
9  1  0  9  
1  1  0  10  
5  0  0  18  
2  0  0  5  
0  0  1  10  
0  0  0  0  
1  0  0  3  
0  0  0  1  
1  0  0  3  
0  0  0  2  
0  0  0  0  
53  5  19  178  
38  12  24  135  

Left on base: Notre Dame 240, Opponents  196  
PITCHER  GP  GS  IP  H  BB  so  ER  W-L  
Anthony Uvorsi  2  0  1.1  1  0  0  0  o-o  
Mike Coffey  4  0  6.0  4  3  2  1  o-o  
Tom Shaw  2  0  5.1  6  2  4  1  0-0  
Kevin Kearns  4  0  5.1  4  5  8  1  0-0  
Llnzie Kramer  4  0  8.0  10  2  3  2  1-0  
Erik Madsen  11  9  66.0  54  14  46  22  6-2  
Mike Passilla  10  5  39.1  37  11  11  16  3-3  
Kevin Chenail  7  7  32.0  31  8  10  15  3-2  
Tom Howard  4  1  10.0  12  6  5  5  0-0  
Brian Piotrowlcz  10  9  43.1  48  15  23  27  4-3  
Mike Harmon  12  2  30.2  46  7  16  20  3-3  
Zachary Nagle  1  0  1.2  3  1  0  2  o-o  
Derk Madden  2  0  3.0  6  5  3  B  o-o  
NOTRE DAME  33  33  252.0 262  79  129  120  20-13  
OPPONENTS  33  33  2254.0272  174  164  161  13·20  
Saves: Notre Dame 2 (Pasilla, Harmon), Opponents 0  

BA .500 .429 .385 .358 .356 
.346 .304 .299 .273 .245 
.233 .225 .167 .143 .125 
.073 .071 
.000 
.280 .270 
ERA 0.00 1.50 1.69 1.69 2.25 
3.00 3.66 4.22 4.50 5.61 
5.87 10.80 24.00 
4.29 
5.70 

Chicago at California Oakland at Seanle 
., Observer dassifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE South Bend's Historic Art Deco Train Station is a Great Place for Your Graduation Party. We have halls to accomodate 25 to 600 people. 
Join 

CALL 233-2876 
The Observer 
Playing Thursday night at Theodore's -9:30 p.m. 

-------------------~---~----------------------~-----­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, April 13 , 1988 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Crew team will have a meeting for varsity and novice members at 7:45 tonight in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Bring checkbooks and money for t-shirts. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonoight at 6: 30 at the boathouse for all members. Voting for awards will be held at the meeting. -The Observer 
-_ 

IrishSpringRunsarescheduledforSaturday, April 16, at 11 a.m. Paricipants can pay a $4 registration fee at the NVA office or can pay $5 the day of the event. The Irish Spring Runs will include both a three-mile run and a six-mile run. The race starts west of Stepan Center, and t-shirts and door prizes will be given out to participants. -The Obser­ver 
The Sailing team placed first in A division and fourth overall in the Miami of Ohio Spring Regatta over Easter break. Last weekend, the team placed second overall in the Indiana Championship Regatta at Michigan City Yacht Club. Club mem­bers also traveled last weekend to the OSU-Fisher Sails Seminar in Columbus, Ohio. -The Observer 
n.a..-Notre o.me office, located on the third floor of LaFonune Stu­dent Cent•, ..::cepta classified edwanlsing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvougt1 Friday. Tile a..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•. accepts classlfteds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next~ classifleds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must 
be pniPald, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds 
~P8fday. 

NOTICES  2 BEDROOM 2 FOR SUMMER  BATH APARTMENT SUB-LEASE, NEW  WINDSURFER FOR SALE Fanatic Cat w' Mistral Sail 368cm race board Call  RUN JESSE RUN! RUN JESSE RUN! WIN JESSE WIN! MOCK CONVENTION  GREAT HUNGER CLEANUP VOLUN· TEE AS  TWILIGHT RETREAT FOR WOMEN • •  
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Professors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233·2342 to make an appointment. 10-5:30 7 day&Week Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827  COMPLEX,POOL $500 FURNISHED. CALL 271 0764 EVENINGS. 2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BOAHOOD 288-095&255·3684 7 BEDROOM FURNISHED HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYS­TEM.SUMMER OR FALL 272-8306 NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO  Ron 287·7736 81 VOLKSWAGEN SCIROCO 5 SPEED STICK,SUN ROOF,STEREO,NEW TIRES & PAD,96000 MILES EXCEL· LENT CONDITION, S 2150, CALL JIN 272)8538 TICKETS I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA· TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN  DELEGATES -VOTE FOR JESSE JACK· SON ON APRIL 13! FOR MORE INFO CALL JOHN X1531 SMC·ND SUMMER ROME PROGRAM JUNE 12-JULY 11. TRAVEL IN FRANCE,GER, SWITZ & ITALY. COURSES IN ITALIAN,HIST,SOC AVAILABLE. MAY 18 DEADLINE.FOR INFO CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR. BLACK AT 284-4460 OR 272-3726. SEMNIOR FORMAL TICKET FOR SALE 4 My date was killed by terrorists, ao he can't go... Will take Beat Offer, Call  Remember to collect donations.First prize: United Limo ticket. $45 value.Many other prizes. Try to get at least $30. THANKS SATURDAY, APRIL 16 WORK THIS SUMMER ON HILTON HEAD IS. WANTED 2 ROOMATES TO SHARE CONDO CALL ANNE 284·4314 ND MOVERS NEEDED FOR NEW STU· DENT ORNIENTATION AT SAINT MARY'S WANTED ALL GUYS INTERESTED IN COMING BACK EARLY TO HELP MOVE IN NEW STUDENTS. CHANCE  sponsored by the Staters of the Holy Cross ­1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. Call: Sr. Arlene at 288-2665 APRIL 29, FRIDAY 6:30-11 P.M. (Evening meal Included) PAUL KELLY JUMP 'ROUND ONE MORE TIME! GOOD LUCK AT REGIONAL$!! MG LES, Don't let the papers get you down! Remember, Hatteras is only a month away!!! Marg  
CALL 237-1949 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009  NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 NICE ROOM TO SUBLEASE FOR THE SUMMER JUNE-AUGUST 31 KITCHEN,BATHROOM,LIVING AOOM,TV,ETC $125, CALL 288· 7929,VOLKER  I DESPERATELY NEED 6 GRADUA­TION TICKETS! I WILL PAY BIG $$ FOR THEM. CALL TIM 4000 IF YOU HAVE EXTRA TICKETS. NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TICKETS. $$$ CALL STEVE 277 ·8932  Diane 271-0205 SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLEA PO 665 NO IN riiii·N·orfiE:.o'A;;,·~·;;aM·PaN·sau·;;o, FORMERLY THE DANCIN' IRISH, WANTS YOU! AN ORGANIZATIONAL  TO MEET NEW PEOPLE. WILL HAVE TO BE BACK ON WEDNESDAY. AU· GUST 17, 1988. FOR MORE INFORMA· TION CONTACT CATHY BURKE AT 284·5051 AN TOSTAL IS COMING!  THE BRAVES ARE STREAKING. WATCH THEM GOt ····oan•••• BREAK A LEG! Love, Gigi  
MEETING WILL BE  HELD WEDNES·  
MADMACS MADMACS MADMACS Look for more PO software, System Software updates, speakers like Guy Kawasaki from AGIUS, and much more ... (Re)organizational meeting coming soon for next year. The ROM Warrior returns  Great Locellon near campus. Large brick home. Room for 6 students. 2 baths. Ready for Fall occu.-ncy. $660tno. plus utilities. 232-2366. Room for 4 students. Near campus.  Have extra senior fonnal bid, want to go? Chris-4006 call after 11 p.m. PERSONALS  DAY, APRIL 13 FROM 6·7 IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM ON 2ND FL. LAFORTUNE. ALL ND-SMC GIRLS IN· TEAESTED IN TRYING OUT ARE WEL· COME  AN TOSTALIS COMING! AN TOSTAL IS COMING! AN TOSTAL IS COMING!  THE GRIND THE GRIND WED-13· CHIPS-1 0;30-?­FAI·15·BAIDGETTES· 8TIL 1 (}9() CENT CANS MON·1 B· BRIDGETTES·1 O·CLOSE-.110CENTBIG DRAFTS  
I LOST/FOUND I  Ready for Fall occu.-ncy. $440mo. plus utilities. 232-2366. 3 BD. HOUSE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS FOR FALL '88. CALL 289-8539.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  NEED MONEY ?? IRISH GARDENS IS NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR WORKERS FOR THE 1988-1989 SCHOOL YEAR. ANYONE INTER­ESTED CAN PICK UP APPLICATIONS  AN TOSTAL IS COMING! AN TOSTAL is coming. Timid Tuesday, Wicked Wednesday, Thirsty Thursday. Frivolous Fnday, Sunny Saturday and  U-G·L·Y YOU AIN'T GOT NO ALIBI YOU UGLY! Vote UMOC!I  
,..  LOST: BEIGE PATTERNED UBAELLA WITH DARK WOOD HANDLE. LOST SOMETIME THE WEEK BEFORE EASTER BREAK. PAOBABL Y SOME· WHERE IN O'SHAG. GREAT SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL LAUREN x3560 IF FOUND. CORONA KEYCHAIN & KEYS LOST AT SENIOR BAR OR BRIDGET'S I THINK ...... PLEASE CALL PATTY AT 283-2807 IF FOUNDIIIIIII BLUE NOTRE DAME WALLET LOST ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. I LOST MY IDS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY CLARE AT 283-2758 THANKS! LOST a steelblue (blackish) and gold bead bracelet somewhere between the ROTC and Aerospace and Engineering buildings about two weeks ago. It was a gift from my boyfriend and has extreme sentimental value. If found PLEASE have a heart and call 283·2660. REWARD. Found: one Marriage and Family text and one beginning Italian text near Juniper and Howard Sis. over Easter break. Cell Kathy 277·2944 FOUND--65 Gloves-Mittens at Lost and Found--Also many Glove and Mitten Pairs; Scarfs Tool! Claim today. 110 LaFortune Hall FOUND: High School Clus Ring (girt's) In Rockne Memorial Locker room. Csll 239-8321. LOST I Hewlett-Packard 15C 4-8 around 5:15 3rd noor Fitz. please call 1342 LOST: BLUE 10 HOLDER WITH CAll· FORNIA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND DETEX LOST ON MARCH 25 AT CHIPS IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X2691 LOST: A RED 3-RING BINDER. I left It In room 101 of Hurley lut TU88day (454111) 81ter my 1:15 cteu. If you plc:Md It up, pluse cell Angle et 283­4011. It twa ewrythlng from aU of my -In It and It Ia vltel to my .,.... lng my flnals!ll!llll Thanks  GREAT STUDIO SUBLET II Spacious, wall-to-wall carpeting, new kitchen. Avail· able May 15. Perfect for grad. student or prof. Quiet location. w' laundry facilrties, etc. Call 289-7709. Spend the summer in Chicago. Sub-let my studio near Rush St. May or June 1 thru Sept. Secure bldg. and beautifully rehabed. More info call 312-787·1000 after 6pm and ask for apt. 2006 ASAP. WANTED SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counst!lors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI. arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama. piano-play for shows, judo. photography, dance, com­puters, nature. wilderness, model rock· etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year· book, woodworking, AN and typist. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 914177!Hl406. PLEASE SELL ME GRADUATION TICK­ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$1 CALL MARC AT 288-7105 WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help •ve • life and urn extra cash at tlw •me time. New and old donors who h11V8 not given within 30 deys will be .,.ld $12 cash 81ter donating If you bring In this lid. Come to American Pla11111a on Tuelldlly, Wednellday, Friday or Saturday, 515 Llncolnway Weat, South Bend. 234-6010. SENIORS -Need roommate in New York City this summer Call Lindsay ·2927 ROOMMATE WANTED Summer only, mete to ahars Campus­view two bedroom, S200!no., lncludee air; Call Dortne et 272·1441. Drug users not tolerated. AIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI OF OHIO THIS WEEKEND. PLEASE CAU KAREN £1312  COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· bians at Notre Oam...St.Mary's Collage P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. BOB Howard off NO Ave. 10·5:30, 7day&Week 233-2342 SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE! Apr. 15-17. Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, BOB Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30 7 days! week. 233-2342 You're not alone. HETEROSEXUALS at Notre Dame-St. Mary's Collage ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur· chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 Bartles Imports BMWMAZDMIW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272·8504 Ends April 30th FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE Jobs $18,4 to $69,891. Immediate openlngsl call JOB LINE 1·5111-459­3811 Ext. F 794, 24hr. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LEARN HOW TO ALL OUT THE PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT· TEND. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LEARN HOW TO ALL OUT THE PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFF~E TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL All MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT· TEND. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LEARN HOW TO ALL OUT THE  AT IG FROM 12:30 ·5:30. ALL APPLI­CANTS MUST BE ON WORK STUDY. THANK YOU ST. JUDE, FOR ANSWERING MY PRAYERS. TOP TEN QUOTES FROM EASTER AT THE ROCHON'S from the home office in Columbus 10. Hey Daver--gray paints, brown socks, you're an FD. 9. You're in luck this time, one of them is a SMC. 8. Lord of the Manor. in training. 7. Hurry up, Amyl 6. Hey Dave, how do we get there? 5. Brian wins! 4. Does that bother you, Amy? 3. Hey, we have couth in this house. Get your finger out of that drink. 2. A rose between two thorns. 1. Those brownies Nancy made will taste so good when we get back from the bars tonight. PETE SKIKO Pete is attempting to become the first man(?) in NO history to win the Bookstore championship and the UMOC trtle. Come out today and see Pete Skiko play for A Pilot and 4 Other Guys Who Can Fly. See Bookstore Schedule lor time and place... Chris White: Damn, He's cool ... PK-This weekend is going ro be BOSS TIMES WITH THE VERMIN! ME TUCKER & ED(aka GILLIGAN & THE SKIPPEA)HAD A BLAST AT THE SYA AND AZARS! EXCEPT 4 THE KETCHUP! WE WANT OUR TIES BACK, OR THE CHICKEN GETS IT! LOVE, T & R(aka GINGER & MARIANNE) JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campus... WHAT'S YOU FAVORITE COLOR? BLUE, I MEAN GREEN! HOLY GRAIL SMC CARROU AUD. WED. APRIL 13  more!!! Hey Dudes of THE GROOVE I I love your COOL eounda and amazing equipment Iaure hope we can work together more often I GIVE ME A CALL ANY TIME (even If you just n-a mover) MJR -eound guy Congratulations Uncle Brian Tab Only three more days •.......................... ' • • •" IRISH SPRING RUNS • • " " This Saturday at !.'.~~~..:.:..:..:.~~~~..~? at NVA • " • Dear Patience: Hope you're feeling better. You had some of us worried, but I knew you'd beat this thing! Next time, though, let's do some­thing different, okay? Faithfully, Your waiting room pal Chris White: The Destroyer He's huge He's large He's just plain Chris ATTN ND WOMEN:Your attitudes are for signed the EGO DEFLATORS GREEN EYES ... I missed walking you to film class yesterday. and we're not having lunch today. I really love being around you. Just remember : Tibet is very far away and Senior Formal is close at hand. Thanks lor the memories · I know there are many more in store for us. Love al­ways...OAIENTAL EYES. RIGHT TO LIFE NEEDS YOU Appllcetlona for all officer positions acceptad until Friday Pick up, return to TIM MARCHESI-132 KEENAN or KATHLEEN ZASSICK-341 REGINA N, SMC Questions? call 271· 0841 michelle serry you are a wanted woman  Things are getting UGLY Vote UMOC LaFortune Info Booth Mon-Fri 7·9 KISSER IS COMING KISSER IS COMING KISSER IS COMING BECOME INVOLVED IN AN TOSTAL. SIGN UP TO PLAY KISSER. THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 FRIDAY APRIL 15 A NINE BAND EXTRAVAGANZA BE THERE! TICKETS AVAILABLE THROUGH HALL REPS OR AT THE DOOR ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CYSTIC ABROSIS C----M DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA Thank you to all who returned the recent survey from the C.D of A. A few follow up comments: 1. Hwas Maggie's idea 2. Our typist has been dismissed, Ms. Hem­wall was going through acute personai problams 3. In responce to Mr. Klis's sur­vey, a gi~ with said T ·shirt has been lo­cated, however, she has declined your offer stating that she will never be any competition lor the gi~ in Senior Bar. 4. Mr. Reidt's lacination with male furry aliens has been summarily dismissed by us and forwarded to the Office of Student Affairs lor appraisal. We enclosed our recomandahon for immediate psycholog­ical help. 5. In responce to questions based on the size of our product. our research team was unable to find anyone to vouch for each of your personal sizing needs, so we made our bast guess. 6. Will someone please forcibly releive Mr Polnsatte of his red pen. A little of the college prof in all of us, eh Ric?? PERK. GOOD LUCK IN VA!!II!! THANK YOU ST. JUDE Who the heck is GRAHAM CHAPMAN? He's King Arthur in the HOLY GRAll. He wiH be here LIVE April 24 at 7:30pm at O'Laughlin Aud. Get your tickets NOW  
help! lost a brown wallet with initials FJD, contained 10, driver's liscence, and photos. ft was lost somewhere between North dining hall and the Engineering li­brary. Please call Francis at 283-1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall d found. REWARD!!!!'!!  FOR SALE IBM POXT Model 086 10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadrarn CGA color monitor. S1,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation,  PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERV~ES OFFICE TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT· TEND.  7,9,11 $1.50 It's only-a FLESH WOUND. What are you going to do? Bleed on me? COME SEE THE KNIGHTS WHO SAY NIEII  say hi to the paluka for mel!!!! Tired of the ND-SMC social life? Can't lind an exciting date? Play the AN TOSTAL Dating Gamel! Pick up aplications in the An Tostal office, 3·5 Thur&Fri.  at O'Laughlin Box Office 9-4 or Ticket Stub 3-5. P.S. Hyou stiU don't know who the heck GRAHAM CHAPMAN is you can see HOLY GRAIL TONIGHT at SMC Carroll Aud. 7,9,11. Bring your dead. Hey Olivia A., lfs me again. Call me when you have  
FOR RENT  AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail· able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays lmm 8  COKE IS IT  Where can you find Alricn Swallows, Black Nights. Huge Snarrling Rabbits and oft the wall laughter? HOLY GRAIL SMC Cerrofl Aud. WED. 7,9,11 $1.50. Bring  Interested in reffing BOOKSTORE? Meet in Keenan Basement Thurs. at 8PM Questions-Jeff x1551  some free time (x1595). See you at work tomorrow.  PJ  
FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI· ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN· FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA­TION CAU 277·7360 DAYS OR 272­6181 EVENINGS.  a.m. to 5 p.m. FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, size 8. Call Jenn at 2975. Chevy Impala. X3282--Steve Rnlt Afliance'83·5spd,-4dr,air,new ex­h&balt,clean,good cond-$1900best oft. Dave3349  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT $3250 for 13 Weeks ($250Wk). For more lnfQrmatlon, come to Inter­view on Wedneaclay, Ap'rtl13th In the Carwr lllld r>tac:.Mnt Services Bldg. (Heaburgh Library) et 10:00, 12:00, 2:00, 4:00 or 8:00. Poaltlons available In Ohio, Indiana and Michigan. FOR SALE: A pair ol Nordica ski boots,  your Shrubbery WANTED: female ROOMATE, North Chicago Subs,beginning in Aug. Call Mary Kay, £3023 or 2999 ROOMMATES WANTED FOR OFF· CAMPUS NEXT YEAR ... 2 NEEDED FOR CAMPUS VIEW (spot resented) or 1 for NO APTS. Call Jim-2035 or  THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 just when you thought  WOOPSI! Almost forgot to welcome you back, Bernie! Nice California tan you got there, Babe!! Anet  
Summer Rental; 2 Bd.; $172-tno. per per· son: Located at Ironwood and Edison; call 271-<1559.  TYPEWRITER-WORD PROCESSOR For Sale LOTS of GOODIES If ln-tlld. pleeM cell Amy x12&3  size 8. Call Jenn at 2975. SENIORS: Moving to So. Cal. for a per­manent job? Call me if you need a room· mate. Jim 1912.  Kevin-2033. CHRIS WHITE: 0' GOD HE'S BIG! Oh Lord, why canl I be CHRIS WHITE?  rt couldn't get any uglier ... ...along came saturday night ...  Refers smoked Dick Vrtale's Afi·Stars in Bookstore. Join the victory celebration Friday in room. 134 Alumni.  

::·:: 
.· .. ::;. 
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Mattingly, Yankees shoot down Blue Jays 12-3 
Associated Press 
TORONTO-Don Mattingly had five of New York's 18 hits, including one of 10 doubles, as the Yankees routed Toronto 12­3 Tuesday night. 
Mattingly went 5-for-6, scoring twice and driving in a run in the fourth five-hit game of his career. 
Dave Winfield drove in three runs and Bobby Meacham scored three times as New York rebounded from a 17-9 whipping by the Blue Jays on Monday. John Candelaria pitched a nine-hitter, striking out six and not walking anyone. 
The Yankees scored seven runs in the first three innings off starter Jim Clancy, 0-2. Can­delaria, 1-0, kept Toronto scoreless on four hits until Juan Beniquez hit a two-run homer in the sixth inning. Cecil Fielder homered in the ninth. 
Tigers 4, Rangers 1 
DETROIT-Texas right­hander Bobby Witt tied an American League record for balks Tuesday, and Frank Tanana pitched the Detroit Tigers to a 4-1 victory over the Rangers. 
Mets 3, Expos 0 

NEW YORK-Ron Darling pitched a five-hitter for his first shutout since 1986, and Darryl Strawberry hit his fourth home run of the season, leading New York over the Montreal Expos 3-0 in the Mets' home opener. 
Kevin McReynolds went 3­for-4 as the Mets beat Pascual Perez, ending his team record­tying eight-game winning streak. Perez won all seven decisions after joining the Ex­pos last Aug. 19 and defeated Darling last week. 
Red Sox 3, Brewers 1 
BOSTON-Bruce Hurst al­lowed four hits and struck out nine in seven innings Tuesday, combining with Lee Smith to limit Milwaukee to five hits as the two pitched Boston to a 3-1 victory over the Brewers. 
Hurst, 1-0, walked two of the game's first three batters, then another at the start of the second inning before settling down in 41-degree weather. He walked the leadoff hitter in the eighth before Lee Smith came 
Twins 7, Indians 6 

CLEVELAND-Reliever Doug Jones, making his first pitch of the year, hit Dan Glad­den with the bases loaded to force in the tying run, then balked home the winning run in the eighth inning Tuesday night as the Minnesota Twins Gubicza gave up two infield 
DIVYA DE GARDE Spiritual Channel Divya De Garde brings information through from the Spiritual plane to assist others in mastering their individual lives and circumstances. He is a clear and specific channel, ac­complished in the New Age healing arts. Understanding and Using Reincarnation Did you live before? How can we remember our "Past lives"? Why don't we automatically remember? How do you make use of what you recall? How can we release ourselves from past vows, bonds or commitments? Have you been with people before whom you know presently? These and other aspects of reincarnation will be discussed, along with a group regression to illustrate the functionality ot this type of personal growth experience. Date: Thursday, April 14 Time: 7:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. Single Cost: $10.00 INCREASING OUR ABIUTY TO LOVE Many of us take for granted that we already know how to love and be loved. Why is true love and intimacy so important to us yet difficult to find and keep? What can we do about this? We can expand our ability to give and receive in a loving manner. This class will assist you in opening to this process. , Date: Friday, April 15 Time: 7:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. Single Cost: $10.00 BEGINNING CHANNEUNG This will be a class for those who wish to bring through their own guidance and information but are having difficulty with where to start, clarity, or vocalizing. It will be a gentle, non-pressure growth experience, centering around the individual's own divinity and allowing growth at your own pace. Date: Saturday, April 16 Time: 9:00 -5:00 p.m. Single Cost: $45.0 LEARNING TO WORK WITH CRYSTALS This will be an in-depth class on how crystals work, what crystals can and cannot do, the history of crystals, how to do a crystal layout, what crystals to wear, how to pick out crystals for yourself and others, and crystal healing. There will be "hands on" practice so all participants will have practical application of what they have learned. Date: Sunday, April 17 Time: 2:00p.m.-7:00p.m. Single Cost: $35.00 SEEING -DREAMING This class will be in two parts. The first will consist of working to develop the ability to "see" intuitively, both within and outside of self, so you will be able to work more easily with your own inner being. The second part will be on understanding and using your dreams and working with whatever it is you see. We will cover how to remember your dreams, staying conscious while you dream and unfolding the layers of meaning in your dreams. Date: Tuesday, April 19 Time: 7:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. Single Cost: $1 0.00 RELATIONSHIPS IN THE NEW AGE As we move into the energies of the New Age, the roles of relationships are changing. This class will illustrate how we create and attract relationships, how we maintain and end them, when it is appropriate to stay in or leave a difficult relationship, how to evaluate your true needs and how to meet them and, finally, how relationships assist us in our spiritual growth. Date: Wednesday, April 20 Time: 7:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. Single Cost: $1 0.00 Cost for attending ALL classes is $95.00. Mr. De Garde will be accepting personal appointments for April 13 through 19. To registrate for the classes, personal appointments or for information, please call UNLIMITED RESOURCE&BOOKS at (219)234-2323. The classes will be held at 1 0 1 East North Shore Drive Uunction with U.S.31 ) in South Bend (held at, but not sponsored by, First Unitarian Church.) ,. M M M M M" " PC  M  

hits in seven innings as the 
Kansas City Royals spoiled the 
Baltimore managing debut of 
Frank Robinson with a 6-1 win 
over the Orioles on Tuesday
night. 
Reds 4, Giants 3 
SAN FRANCISCO-Pinch­

runner Chris Sabo stole second 
and third in the ninth inning 
and scored on Barry Larkin's 
sacrifice fly to give the Cincin­
nati Reds a 4-3 victory over the 
San Francisco Giants Tuesday 
night. 
Astros 8, Braves 3 
T

ATLANTA-Nolan Ryan sur­vived a shaky start to pitch a three-hitter through seven in­nings Tuesday night as the Houston Astros handed the At­lanta Braves their seventh consecutive defeat, 8-3. 
Angels 15, White Sox 6 

ANAHEIM, Calif.-Devon White hit a grand slam, Chili Davis scored four runs and Jack Howell had four hits Mon­day night, leading the Califor­nia Angels to a 15-6 rout of the Chicago White Sox. 
White's third-inning grand slam, his first homer of the season, climaxed a five-run in­ning against Jack McDowell, 0­1, suffered his first major league loss. He was 3-0 last season. 
Mariners 6, Athletics 4 

SEATTLE-Alvin Davis and Ken Phelps hit successive solo home runs in the third inning and Harold Reynolds added a two-run homer in the sixth Tuesday night as the Seattle Mariners beat the Oakland Athletics 6-4 in their home opener. 
Awards 
continued from page 16 
resulted in records of 17-3-1 and 
27-4-2, respectively. Often over­
shadowed by the the football 
and basketball teams, these 
two teams quietly put up the 
best numbers in Irish history 
for their respective sports. 
Best Individual Portrayal in 

a Minor Role: Though cer­
tainly her role wasn't minor, 
her recognition occassionally 
was. Molly Sullivan, who 
seemed to struggle at times 
(for her, one loss is a struggle) 
during the season, regained 
NCAA fencing's individual na­
tional championship in late 
March after capturing the 
crown as a sophomore and 
placing third last year. 
Best Female Newcomer: 

Muffet McGraw, in her first 
season as head coach of the wo­
men's basketball team, put the 
fight and the running game 
back in the Irish as they 
finished the campaign with a 
20-8 record and just missed an 
invitation to a postseason 
tournament. 
Best Male Newcomer: Tony 

Rice, who was thrust into the 
starting quarterback position 
in the fourth week of the season 
after just two months in a Notre 
Dame uniform. Running the 
option with a great deal of suc­
cess, Rice paced the Irish run­
ning game to dominating wins 
over Southern Cal and Ala­
bama. 
ended the Cleveland's six­game winning streak 7-6. 
Cardinals 7, Cubs 5 

ST. LOUIS-Bob Horner led St. Louis out of a season-long hitting slump with four hits and two RBI and the Cardinals defeated the Chicago Cubs 7-5 Tuesday night. 
The Cardinals, who .entered the game with a National League-worst batting average of .198, had a season-high 18 hits against five Chicago pitchers to raise their record to 2-5. Steve Lake added three hits, including a solo home run, and Vince Coleman had three hits, an RBI and two stolen bases. 
Royals 6, Orioles 1 

BALTIMORE-Frank White drove in four runs and Mark 
1 
-----------~----~­
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988

page 12 The Observer 

Irish, IU 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS--It may be the off -season for college soc­cer, but Notre Dame and In­diana will square off Thursday night at Indianapolis in what amounts to more than a spring scrimmage. 
Organizers are calling it the Golden Boot soccer match, and this intra-state battle is the ful­fillment of a dream of one of the biggest soccer promoters in the state of Indiana. 
The idea was first suggested by Nick Matavuli, a soccer writer and ·promoter in Bloomington, who wanted to create a state rivalry with In­diana and either Evansville or Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately Matavuli passed away last year, before 
soccer play benefit 
he could see his dream become reality under the leadership of John S. Rosebrough and 16 central Indiana business men and women. 
As chairman of both Golden Boot Inc., a non-profit organi­zation, and the U.S. Olympic Comittee for the state of In­diana, Rosebrough has created not only an intra-state rivalry, but also a fundraiser for the Summer Olympics. 
"For the first match we've made nice monetary guaren­tees to Notre Dame and In­diana for coming to play," said Rosebrough. "Proceeds above and beyond that will benefit the USOC for the state of Indiana." Although the ticket prices may seem a bit steep at $20, $10 and $5, the price includes pregame receptions hosted by both the Notre Dame and In­
diana clubs in Indianapolis and entertainment by various bands before the game and by The Star lights during halftime. 
The game is being played at the 12,000-seat IUPU­Indianapolis track arid field stadium, 905 W. New York St. An expected crowd of 5,000-plus Thursday ruled out using Kunz Field, the soccer venue for the 1987 Pan-American games, which seats only 4,500. 
"In future years," said Rosebrough, "the proceeds will be used for a high school soccer players scholarship fund, similar to the one set up for caddies in golf, and also for buying more seats for Kunz Field." 
The receptions outside the stadium begin at 6 p.m., with game time at 7:30 p.m. 

Washington's Mike Ridley falls during this encounter with Philadelphia's Peter Zezel, but It was the Capitals who came out on top Tuesday 
Flames, Oilers, Blues clinch 
Associated Press 
Rookie Brett Hull scored two goals, including his third game­winner of the series, Tuesday night to lead St. Louis to a 5-3 victory over Chicago as the Blues joined Edmonton and Calgary in eliminating first­round NHL playoff opponents. 
Edmonton beat Winnipeg 6-2 

and Calgary took Los Angeles 
6-4. The winners advanced to a 
meeting in the Smythe Division 
final. St. Louis awaits the win­
ner of the Detroit-Toronto se­
ries in the Norris Division. 
Meanwhile, Aaron Broten, Kirk Muller and Pat Verbeek, limited as a line to just two points in four previous games, combined for six as New Jersey beat the New York Islanders 4-2 to take a 3-2 lead in their best-of-7 series. 
Toronto staved off elimina­

tion against Detriot thanks to 
Bookstore 
continued from page 16 
tennis player Brian Kalbas' 12 points. 
Tournament Commissioner Mike Manning couldn't have had a more care-free first two rounds of Bookstore. 
"It's been great," said the sophomore. "'J~~e weather has cooperated for the most part, and we really haven't had a lot of problems. It's good to be past the prelims and the first two rounds-it all gets easier from here." Third round action begins today at 4 p.m. 
three goals by Ed Olyczyk in­cluding the game-winner just 34 seconds into overtime as the Maple Leafs edged the Red Wings 6-5. 
Elsewhere, it was Washing­ton 5, Philadelphia 2; Hartford 3, Montreal 1; and Boston 5, Buffalo 4. Detroit, Philadel­phia, Montreal and Boston lead their respective series 3-2 with Game 6 in each Stanley Cup matchup set for Thursday night. 

Oilers 6, Jets 2 At Edmonton, Mark Messier figured in the first four Oilers goals, all on the power play,' and Wayne Gretzky had a goal and four assists. Messier, who had 13 points in the five games, scored twice and set up goals by Esa Tik­kanen and Jari Kurri. · Flames 6, Kings 4 
At Calgary, Hakan Loob led the Flames with two goals. 

Lax hosts Foresters in opener at Krause 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
It's a case of "better late than never" for the Notre Dame lacrosse team as it prepares for its first game in Edward J. "Moose" Krause Stadium tonight at 6:30. 
The Irish will play Lake Forest, a team they beat two weeks ago 11-6. The lacrosse team's debut in Krause was delayed when its first two home games last month were moved to Alumni Field because of conflicting events. 
The team will be attempt­ing to tie two school records by winning their ninth game in a season and by capturing its seventh victory in a row. 
"The fact that we have a chance to tie those records and really have the momen­tum moving makes it very exciting to be playing at home," said senior tri­captain Tom Lanahan. ''And getting to finally play at Krause makes it even bet­ter." 
Lanahan cited the excel­lent condition of the field and the seating capacity for fans as the most exciting aspects about playing in Krause. He added that there will con­tinue to be a halftime shoot­out among fans for a Notre Dame lacrosse stick. 
Notre Dame has never lost to Lake Forest in six previ­ous meetings, including an 11-6 win on April 1. 
But the Foresters, who return 17letterwinners from a year ago, are one of the tougher squads that Notre Dame faces in Great Lakes Conference play. The Irish victory over the Foresters on April Fools Day was a bit­tersweet one. In that game the team lost senior starting creaseman Jeff Shay with a season ending knee injury and had to thwart a quick fourth quarter comeback by the Foresters. 
Irish head coach Rich O'Leary said the team will try to contain Lake Forest's Lyles Shirley by employing a zone defense. Shirley came up big in the previous game by scoring five of his team's six goals against the Irish man-to-man defense. 
Most of the players agreed that they should respond positively to their unexpec­tedly close double-overtime win at Kenyon Saturday. 
"A close win always makes you work harder in practice and it somehow gives you momentum," said Lanahan. "It's kind of ironic that in 1986 we had a close 10-9 win over Lake Forest and then went on to tool on Denison." 
Denison also is somewhat on the team's mind. The Big Red aleady has beaten Mic­higan State, last year's NCAA Western representa­tive, and travels to South Bend for a crucial game with the Irish on Saturday. 
"The Lake Forest game is important to us in many respects," O'Leary said. "We will be approaching the game with the belief that whatever we do will affect our performance against Denison." 

ENJOY  COMPLETE CURRICULUM IN ENGLISH,  
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY'S  SPANISH, Uberal Arts, Business,  
MADRID CAMP<IS  Science, Hispanic Studies  
July Session Includes:  
Graduate Program in Hispanic Studies  
(SLU is an AA£0E)  
Apply NOW for SUMMER & FALL!  
INFORMATION:  
Tel 1-800-325-6666  
221 N. Grand Blvd.  
St Louis, MO 631 03  

~~'*or 
c:l De La Vina, 3 

Madrid 28003 ...In the classroom with more than 700 Spanish students. 
<Q><Q>~<Q>~~~..q.~ 
REDBUD SUMMER WORKSHOP  
Sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Art Department Five, two-week, three-credit courses in Body Sculpture, Dance, Drawing,Printmaking and Video May 16 to 28, 1988 Buchanan, Michigan  

Registration Deadline: April 29 1988 Call Moreau Gallery 284-4655 ' for more information and application.  


--------------~----------------­
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Harrick signs to coach UCLA 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Jim Har­rick, the former coach of the Pepperdine University Waves, was introduced as UCLA's new head basketball coach Tuesday and said he didn't care about 
not  being  the  Bruins'  first  
choice for the job.  
"Did  you  know  that  John  

Wooden was the fourth choice at UCLA? I'm serious," Har­rick said at a packed campus news conference, referring to the legendary coach who led the Bruins to 10 NCAA cham­pionships in 12 years before retiring in 1975. 
Harrick, a former UCLA as­sistant who was the head coach at Pepperdine the past nine seasons, was hired 13 days after Walt Hazzard, who had held the job for four years, was dismissed. 


Happy 21st Birthday Rich "Opie" 
Love, 
Mom & Dad, Mary Pat, Mark, Kathleen, Sheila 
.... 

-

I j I 
~~ 
Since Hazzard's firing, several big-name coaches were interviewed by UCLA amidst much hoopla. Among them were North Carolina State's Jim Valvano and Kansas' Larry Brown, who was offered the job last Thursday night and accepted it, but changed his mind the next day, deciding to stay with national champion Kansas. 
Harrick, 49, said he signed a four-year contract. 
"I've worked every day of the last 28 years to prepare myself for this opportunity. I know the magnitude of this pro­gram. I know what we can ac­complish. We have some great, young guys in the program. We're looking forward to a tre­mendous experience." 
The Bruins were 77-47 under Hazzard, but only 16-14 this past season, well below expec­tations a year after they won 
the Pacific-10 Conference 
championship. 
Under Harrick, Pepperdine 
was 17-13 this season and 167-97 
overall. The Waves appeared 
in the NCAA tournament four 
times and the National Invita­
tion Tournament twice in Har­
rick's nine years. 
Harrick is the sixth coach at UCLA since Wooden retired. Gene Bartow, Gary Cunnin­gham and Brown lasted two years each; Larry Farmer held the job three years and Hazzard four. None won an NCAA championship. 
Harrick was an assistant un­der Cunningham from 1977-79. He took over at Pepperdine the following season. 
Athletic Director Peter Dalis said he made up his mind to hire Harrick Monday night after an hour-long discussion with Louisville coach Denny Crum, a former classmate of Dalis' and an assistant under Wooden. Harrick was informed of the decision Tuesday mor­ning. 
"When I called Jim this mor­ning I asked him if he was ready to join me in the toughest job in college basketball," Dalis said. "It is, without a doubt. This place is a fishbowl, it really is. There is a built-in anxiety at UCLA." 
Contrary to what's been re­ported, Dalis said the job was actually offered to only Brown and Harrick. 
UCLA point guard Pooh Richardson applauded the hiring of Harrick. 
....  .....  ....  ......  ....  I  
AN TOSTAL  - S.O.B.  I I  
~  

-
-

Sign Ups: Where: 3rd Floor LaFortune Armstrong Room When: Thursday, April 14 7:00 -9:00 p.m. Friday, April 15 3:00 -5:00 p.m. FOR WEEKLONG EVENTS: Kisser--1 00 men, 100 women Scavenger Hunt--teams of 3 (unlimited) 
Tuesday, April 19: Golf T ourney--18 teams of 2 each 
Wednesday, April 20: 
1) Airband Competition--15 group limit 
2) Slam Dunk--20 people for 9'3" (unlimited for 1 0') 
Thursday, April 21: Bike Race (unlimited) Saturday, April 23: 
1) Mud pillow fights--12 men 12 women 
2) Mud Wheelbarrow Race--40 teams of 2 
...... ...... .... 
~ 
~ 
I I 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ 
I 
I I 
~ I I I I 
4 
~ I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
I 

The Observer I Michael Moran Pooh Richardson (24), shown here In action at Notre Dame this past season, will be playing for a new coach next year. Former Pepperdlne coach Jim Harrlck was named to replace the fired Walt Hazzard at UCLA. 
THE 1989 DOME is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Academics Editor 
Sports Editor Assistant Academics Editor 
Assistant Sports Editor Copy Editor 
Extracurricular Editor Assistant Copy Editor 
Assistant Extracurricular Editor Events Editor 
Business Manager Assistant Events Editor 
Photographers Assistant Hall Life Editor 
Assistant Seniors Editor 
Applications can be picked up in the Office of Student Activities on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. They must be returned no later than 
12:00 p.m. on Monday, April 18. 

lighting by ROBERT GRAHAM SMALL costume ond scene design by UNDA H. WIGLEY April13, 14, 15, 16at8:10 April17,at3:10 
--·-­
~~~.w.m O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office 284-4646 
---------------------------------------------~-------------~~-~--~--------­
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988

page 14 The Observer 
Receivers look to start a new, post-Brown era 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
Irish quarterbacks will not have the luxury of looking up­field and spotting Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown sprinting down the sidelines this fall, a sight Notre Dame fans grew accustomed to over the last four 
SPRIHG FOOTBALL 
Tight [nd., & Receiver., 

: t caught 137 passes during his Irish career for 2493 yards and 12 touchdowns. He added 442 more yards on the ground with four scores. 
The average Notre Dame fan might tend to savor those stats and memories for as long as possible, but not receiver coach Pete Cordelli. The third-year Irish assistant is ready to get on with business, leaving the past behind. 
"There's only one Tim Brown, and there will never be another," Cordelli said. "But you can't dwell on the past. You have to move forward. We're going to miss him, but the pro­gram rnoves on. You could say we're entering a new era." 

With Brown gone, Cordelli is 

Mark Green 
experimenting with a number of young players. He likes what he has seen in the early spring drills. 
"This is the fun time," Cor­

. delli says. "It's interesting to see how people are going to develop. That's what coaching is all about. " The biggest change in per-

NBA Standings 
e..tem Contwence Atlentlc Dlvlelon 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
y-Boston  54  21  .720  
New Vorl<  35  41  .461  19.5  
Washington  35  41  .461  19.5  
Philadelphia  33  42  .440  21  
New Jersey  18  59  .234  37  

Central Dlvlalon x-Detroit 49 26 .853 x-AHanta 47 
29 .618 2.5 x-Chicago 45 30 .600 4 Milwaukee 40 35 .533 9 Cleveland 
38 39 .494 12 Indiana 35 40 
.467 14 
Western Conference Mldweat Dlvlalon 

w L Pet. GB x-Dallas 49 25 .662 x-Oenver 49 27 .645 1 x-Houston 43 32 .573 6.5 x-Utah 41 34 .547 8.5 San Antonio 29 46 .387 20.5 Sacramento 22 53 .293 27.5 
Pacific Dlvlelon y-LA Lakers 56 18 .757 x-Portland 47 27 .635 9 x-Seattle 40 35 .533 16.5 Phoenix 25 50 .333 31.5 Golden State 18 57 .240 38.5 LA Clippers 17 58 .227 39.5 
x-clinched playoff berth 
y-clinched division title 
Tueedoy'a Reeulta Cleveland 116, Atlanta 103 San Antonio 127, Houston 119 LA Clippers at 6tah, late Portland at LA Lakers. late Dallas at Sacramento, late 
sonnel is the switch of tri­captain Mark Green from tail­back to flanker. Green rushed for 861 yards on 146 carries last fall, but he is no stranger to his new position. He played flanker in 10 games as a freshman and caught 25 passes .for 242 yards as a sophomore. 
Last season, Green pulled in 13 passes for 98 yards. If not for the multi-talented Brown, he may have been the top receiver for the Irish. So far, Green feels at home in his new position. 
"I'm adjusting to it," Green said. "It's not really that bad. I'm familiar with the offensive scheme we're trying to do. I know all of the formations and the plays we're trying to do." 
Cordelli also likes Green's progress this spring. 
"He's one of the better ath­letes on the team," Cordelli said. "He has a lot of ability and can add to the football team." 
Even with Green's impres­sive performances this spring, Cordelli says no one has se­cured a starting spot on the team. 
"We have a lot of competition at split end and flanker," Cor­delli said. "I don't think anybody has a definite lock on the job. That's good because they can't let down. They have 

Pat Eilers 

to be consistent every day. We won't be able to set the depth chart until after the spring game." 
With sophomore Pat Terrell having moved from split end to free safety, freshman Bobby Carpenter has seen a lot of playing time with the Irish first team at split end. Freshman Pierre Martin, junior Aaron Robb and junior Pat Eilers also have seen much action, mostly with the second team. Robb caught two passes for 21 yards in the fall, while Eilers is moving from strong safety. 
Others competing for the two spots are James Dillard, Patrick Fallon and Steve Alaniz. Ricky Watters has even caught some passes, and he led the team in reception yards during last Saturday's scrim­mage. 
An encouraging sign for Cor­delli is the fact that the receivers have suffered no in­juries this spring. 
The tight end situation is still unclear at this point. Junior tri­captain Andy Heck started-all 11 games at that spot last season, but he has been seeing action at tackle this spring. It is still uncertain what position he will play in the fall. Heck caught five passes for 59 yards last year. 
Freshman Frank Jacobs and junior Mike Brennan also are fighting for the tight end spot. 

Woeful Orioles fire Ripken 
Robinson becomes first black manager in four years 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Frank Robin­son became baseball's first black manager in four years on Tuesday when he was named to replace Cal Ripken on the Baltimore Orioles in a move made in an attempt to rescue the club from its worst start in 33 years. 
Under Ripken, the Orioles opened the 1988 season by losing their first six games after finishing the 1987 season with a 67-95 record, the third­worst mark by the team since the franchise moved from St. Louis in 1954. 
Robinson, the first black to manage at the major league level, was also the last black to manage in the big leagues. He was fired by the San Francisco Giants in 1984. 
"I don't profess to be a su­perman. But I do have ideas," Robinson said at a hastily called news conference at Memorial Stadium. 

WEDNESDAY 
DOLLAR IMPORTS TANQUERAY tTON\C 75~ 
THURSDAY 
75¢. DRAFT WINE COOLERS 75~ 
~QIDAY LUNCH 
OPE"-J NOON-2prA 21 I D C~:::: = 
-'·;:: =<E CLOSED THIS WEE.<.='-.:.:: ::--:,-;::; SENIOR I='ORMAL/ 
Baltimore General Manager Roland Hemond said had Rob­inson decided not to take job, Ripken would have stayed on as manager. 
Robinson, elected to baseball's Hall of Fame in 1982, was six games into his first season in a front-office position as a special assistant to the president. He has been a mem­ber of the Orioles' organization as player, coach or in the front office for 13 years. 
Robinson begins his third stint as a major league manager. His first assignment was with the Cleveland Indians from 1974-77 and then was with the Giants from 1981-84. 
"I don't think I ever felt the pressure of being in the position of being a black manager," Robinson said. "I am aware of the pressure of the position, but I don't let it bother me." 
Only two other blacks have managed in the major leagues, Larry Doby with the Chicago White Sox in 1978 and Maury . Wills managed Seattle in 1980­81. 


MOCK CONVENTION 




Wednesday, April 13, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
Wednesday 
11:30 a.m.: Economics Department Labor Workshop, by Ned Lorenz and Frank Wilson, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
12: 10 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 3 p.m.: SMC Softball vs. Purdue, SMC Softball Diamond. 3:30p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Quest for Controlled Combustion Engines,'' by Professor Oppenheim, Berkeley, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Heavy Ion Collisions," by Dr. Danzmann, Stan­ford, Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
4:30 p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, "The Mannose 6-phosphatEY insulin-like Growth Factor II Receptor," by Professor Kornfield, Room 123 Nieuwland Hall. 4:30p.m.: Department of Modern Languages Lecture, "Showing and Telling," by Dr. Caws, CUNY, Galvin Life Sciences Center Auditorium. 7 p.m.: Career and Placement Services presents "Fill Out the Profile Form," Room 123 Nieuwland Hall. 7:30p.m.: Office of Minority Students Affairs Symposium on Minority Concers, Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
8:10 p.m.: NOSMC Theatre presents "The Glass Menagerie," O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Gyro Lasagna Pasta Bar Roasted Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmisian California Quiche Taco Bar Deli Bar 


Bloom County 
ACROSS 1 Feeler 5 Volume 9 Vend 
13 Celebes ox 14 Yearn 15 An Osmond 16 Optimistic 17 Indian 18 Student 
ordeals 19 Explosive 20 Witch's garage? 
22 Spray 
24 Unaspirated consonants 25 Forceful streams 27 Climbing plants 
29 Dole out 
30 Cuts 
31 Slogan 
34 Poverty 
35 Storms 
36 Opera song 
37 Radon or freon 38 Dwells on 39 Stable person 40 Fiji bowl 41 Lodgers 42 Hurled 44 Camel kin 46 Ale jails? 48 Strife 51 Come to 52 Bose e.g. 53 Tex. city 54 Crowbar 55 Gaelic 56 Voice 57 Low card 58 Russ. veto 59 Card game 
DOWN 1 Go separate 
ways 2 Shortly 3 Old shoes 
feature? 4 Remuneration 5 Certain New 
Zealanders 6 Thespian 
Berke Breathed 


© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
04113188
All Rights Reserved 
7 Film studio? 8 Appear 9 Englishmen 

10 Expunge 11 Green fruits 12 For fear that 15 Fracases 20 Head thrust 21 Cuts 23 QED word 25 Spilled the 
beans 26 Kind of 
bargain 28 Competes 30 Mens sana in 
corpore ­31 Angry galt? 32 Disorder 

33  Batatas  
35 Musical Starr  
36 Region  
38 Astaire e.g.  
39 Chewing items  43 Forsake  49 Judicial  
40 Failure 41 Attic  45 Hire 46 European  proceedings 50 Cheer  
42 Not  so  many  47 Begin  53  Had being  
Far Side  Gary Larson  



Bill Watterson 
·, 

..........~··~·......................,..................,......• 
THIS WEEK 1\lontrI)rthoN Film Festival 
Thursday, 
Friday, 
Saturday,April 14 April 16
Aprll15 
Holy Grail DIFFERENT 
Tickets $2.00 Shows at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. Catch Monty Python's Founder Graham Chapman at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Ufe of Brian 

April 24t~. Tickets available 3-5 PM Weekdays Basement of LaFortune 



Sports 
Wednesday, April 13 , 1988
page 16 

Bookstore field now at 128 
Former Notre Dame guard Elsewhere, The Citizens can­
By PETE SKIKO Chris Nanni had a big day yes­celled Big Plans 21-8; Plug
Assistant Sports Editor 

terday, going three-for-five as Players caught We Always 
The second round of his Tequila White Lightning Play in the Rain out of its en­Bookstore Basketball XVII squad put a damper on The Fun vironment and won 21-15; came to a close yesterday, with Bunch 21-8, while Still Friends Shaggy and the Mystery Ma­more seeded teams winning in of Chris Nanni shut down chine harpooned The Mag­
, __ 

1 
\ impressive fashion and other Prime Time Scoots 21-18. Also, nanimous Chubbies 21-11. as unheralded squads hoping to All The President's Men II con­Shaggy and Co. pulled down 38 cause them to look over their tinued its winning ways with a rebounds as a team; Orange
• .J

-.... shoulders a little . 21-13 broiling of Chicken Blossom Special whitewashed
..r,. 


Heads. Monk Malloy shot St. Michael's Shrinks Your Un­three-for-nine while pulling derwear 21-7; and Uncle Fester down four rebounds for his and the Chiefs scalped Get Out Men. of My Face 21-5. 
For the first time in the We're Pathetic So You Better 

The final128 teams includes  tournament, roommate met  Not Lose again underestimated  
Hahn's Funeral Home, which  roommate as Sean Brown of  its own ability and thrahed  
uprooted The Giving Tree 21-10  Spidey's Netters confronted  Mike Jones and 4 Guys 21-11;  
yesterday. Hahn's is composed  freshman roomie Joe Massman  Carver High utilized the 'keep  
of two members of 1987 final­ of The Disturbed. Massman  shooting and some are bound  
eight entry Party at Chips  threw his shoulder out of joint  to go in' strategy in going 21­ 
When We Repeat (Bubba Cun­ early in the game, resulting in  for-89 from the field but still  
ningham and Tom Antonini)  an 0-for-3 shooting day and  dicing The Couch Potatoes 21­ 
and is bolstered by the strong  some harsh words for Brown.  11. The Potatoes were an  
inside play of John McCabe.  e'JUally inept 11-for-68.  
Another team which may  "We'll see about room picks  In the two tightest games of  
sneak up on some people is  this year," said a disgruntled  the afternoon, The Dukes of  
Malicious Prosecution, led by  Massman after the game. "We  Slam mobilized Stationary Mo­ 
Peter Van Dyke and Irish soc­ knew he didn't have any ath­ tion 24-22 behind Tom Connag­ 
cer player Joe Sternberg. The  letic ability so we left him  han's 11 points, and A SMC  
....-.-.4­-The Observer I Brian Ma.«t  Prosecution slashed A Couple  alone, and he still only scored  Chick, A Doormat, and Three  
of Hacks 21-9. Former final-16  three points. But I hurt my  Other... staved off The  
It might not have been as easy as It looks here, but AF ROTC  entrant Tofu's Last Gig hushed  shoulder early, so our scoring  Bumblebees by the same score,  
breezed Bookstore Basketball's round of 128 with a 21-10 victory  Transport Phenomena 21-14,  punch was effectively  despite Irish  
over Floor Laimbeer on Tuesday. Pete Sklko has all the details on  and 5 Slamma Jamma cracked  neutralized anyway. We just  
Tuesday's Bookstore action at right.  Faculty Jokes 21-12.  ran into some bad luck."  see BOOKSTORE, page 12  

ND baseball falls to Boilers 
Irish face Northwestern today at Jake Kline Field 
Special to The Observer the third and fourth innings, the final score 11-7. The Irish 
Purdue jumped out to a 9-0 making the score 9-2. had the bases loaded and the lead and withstood a late Notre The fourth-inning run came tying run at the plate when Dame rally to defeat the Irish on a leadoff home run by senior Boiler reliever Mark Blosser 11-7 in baseball Tuesday at first baseman Tim Hutson, his ended the rally. West Lafayette, Ind. lOth of the season. Hutson's 
The Irish, who now hold a 20-clout tied Rich Gonski's school Purdue's victory snapped a 14 record, host Northwestern at record for home runs in a six-game Irish winning streak. 
2:30 this afternoon at J <fke season. Notre Dame still has won 14 of Kline Field. Tony Livorsi, in his third its last 18 games heading into 
Notre Dame has lost 17 con­pitching appearance of the today's battle with Northwes­secutive games against Big season, kept Purdue from ex­tern. Ten opposition. The last time tending its lead during the The Wildcats held an 11-16 Notre Dame beat a Big Ten middle innings. The sophomore record in the beginning of the team was in May 1986, when from Glenview, Ill., allowed week, having lost four games the Irish defeated Northwes­just two runs (one of them over the weekend to nationally­tern 22-4. earned) in 5.1 innings of work. ranked Michigan. Northwes­
The Boilermakers (13-19) Purdue scored twice more in tern beat Notre Dame in both rocked Irish starting pitcher the seventh . inning and ap­games between the two teams Tom Shaw and reliever Rob peared to have put the game last year. Kramer for five runs in the first out of reach. Kevin Chenail is the probable 
Tim Hutson's ·fourth-Inning homer tied a school record for home
inning and four runs in the But the Irish mounted a starting pitcher for the Irish second. furious comeback. Trailing 11-today. His next start will break runs In a season (1 0), but It was not enough to keep the Irish from Notre Dame closed the gap 2 in the ninth inning, Notre Don Wolfe's school record for losing to Purdue 11-7 on Tuesday. Notre Dame faces Northwestern somewhat with single runs in Dame scored five runs to make career starts by a pitcher. at 2:30 p.m. today at Jake Kline Field. 

It's the Academy Awards (Notre Dame style) 
On Monday evening, the "stars" came out in Los attention of sports lovers across the nation and even would become Notre Dame's seventh recipient of Angeles for the Academy Awards. abroad. the John W. Reisman Memorial Trophy. 
Now before you turn the page and conclude that None of the winners of the Irish Items Academy The final three weeks of the regular season the Academy Awards have absolutely nothing to do Awards will show up for the award ceremony in brought suspense to an otherwise one-horse race with the world of sports, think again. As usual, Liza diamonds or tuxedos, if for no other reason than when Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson rode Minelli showed up at the gala presentations with a that I'm not holding an awards ceremony. the Orangemen's undefeated record and the Eas­diamond-studded robe and hood, not unlike the gar­
tern establishment's coattails into New York to be­ments worn into the rings by boxers and the 
Brian come a potential upset winner. The previous cer­
sportsmen of sportsmen, professional wrestlers. 
tainty of an Irish Reisman was erased, and the 
But that's not the only proof in this pudding that O'Gara Notre Dame world seemed to stand still for those these two fields are comparable. There is little ques­
final moments until the announcement that Brown tion that sports and show business have become would bring the huge trophy back to campus and interrelated in recent years. The Final Four is a Irish Items his room in Cavanaugh. 
massive television production, the basketball movie Best (Worst) Tragedy: The failed two-point con­Hoosiers was nominated for two Oscars last year, But enough of the pre-game show, or is it the version against Penn State in November. To end and even the Little League World Series has TV opening credits? Here are this writer's picks for any glimmer of hope for a Notre Dame bid to the timeouts now. the Academy-Award-winning moments on this Orange Bowl and shot at the national championship, 
Closer to home, several Notre Dame characters campus this year in some nontraditional categories. the Nittany Lions swarmed Tony Rice to cap a 21-20 and casts have had their moments on center stage The envelopes, please: upset victory. There would be no Cinderella-like of the national sports scene in the past year. Best Drama: The Reisman Trophy Presentation script this time. 
For some the limelight has been brief; for others, at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City. Best Team Portrayal in a Minor Role: The Irish brilliant and almost blinding. But there is little ques­Irish eyes on campus and across the country were soccer and hockey teams, for seasons which tion that the athletic endeavors at this small Cath­glued to their television sets on the afternoon of olic university in northern Indiana can grab the December 5 to see if Mr. All-Purpo_se Tim Brown see AWARDS, page 11 



