
Autumn arrives
/ACCENT: Clubs heat up political climate 
Considerable cloudiness and cooler today with a high in the upper 50s. Mostly cloudy and cool tonight with a 20 percent

/VIEWPOINT: A mecca of learning 
chance of showers. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 30 
Associated Press 
TALLINN, U.S.S.R.-­Members of an Estonian nationalist group accused the Kremlin on Sunday of sapping their republic's resources and demanded that Moscow give them greater control over their land and economy. 
Thousands of supporters cheered the speakers at the first congress of the fledgling People's Front. 
"We have been reduced to 
the level of slaves in a manor," 
farmer Enno Peets told more 
than 3,000 delegates. 
Some speakers objected to what they called the Kremlin's "colonialist" policy, which they said syphons off Estonia's agricultural output and 
Changes in Contra aid considered 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The Reagan 
administration expects to take 
advantage of a minor change 
in the new humanitarian aid 
package for the Contra rebels 
to institute a series of non­
military training programs de­
signed to make the insurgents 
more self -sufficient. 
The aid program that ex­
pired Friday said the adminis­
tration could use the $17.7 mil­
lion package "only" for food, 
clothing, medical services and 
shelter. 
The new $27 million six­
month package signed into. law 
by President Reagan Saturday 
calls for assistance in the same 
four areas but the word "only" 
has been deleted, permitting 
the administration greater 
flexibility in how the money is 
spent. 
In signing the $14.3 billion 
foreign aid bill, Reagan 
criticized what he said was a 
minimal amount of 
humanitarian aid for the Con­
tras. 
U.S. officials, insisting on anonymity, said they envision U .S.-sponsored "skills train­ing" in areas ranging from radio maintenance to record keeping, human rights and health care. 
The officials said such pro­grams should boost the morale of the thousands of rebels who are camped along the Honduran-Nicaraguan border with little to keep them occu­pied. 
Many of the rebels flocked to these camps from inside Nicaragua over the past six months to take advantage of the assistance programs being carried out in the border area 
see CONTRAS, page 5 
manufactured goods. "These people are to blame for our suffering here, the lack of food here," delegate Albert Danielson told the audience at the Town Hall in Tallinn, the picturesque capital of this republic on the Baltic Sea. The two-day conference opened Saturday with an ad­ is key for Gorbachev, who is beset by unrest among the So­viet Union's more than 100 eth­nic groups. The stirrings have been particularly troublesome in the Baltic republics of Es­tonia, Lithuania and Latvia, and in the southern republics of Armenia and Azerbaijan. The Soviet Union took over  up just 60 percent of the popu­lation. Delegates rejected a contro­versial proposal to encourage "remigration" of Russians and other non-Estonians living in the republic. The measure was politically explosive because thousands of Estonians themselves were  
dress by Estonia's Communist Party chief, Vajno Vyalyas, who greeted the group in the name of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Official sanction for the meeting was an indication of the changing attitudes of aut­horities, who recently would have thrown in jail anyone espousing nationalist senti­ the Baltic republics under a 1939 agreement with Nazi Ger­many. Among the nearly two dozen resolutions passed Sunday was one demanding that the 1939 agreement be renounced. Another resolution urged the Estonian government and the Communist Party to stop the flow of people of other  deported by Soviet dictator Josef Stalin after Estonia was absorbed into the Soviet Union. Another resolution demanded that people who carried out "Stalinist crimes" be brought to justice and that victims be compensated in the same way as war veterans. The resolutions have no legal force, but the Communist  
ments. The issue of ethnic relations  nationalities into the republic, where ethnic Estonians make  Party and government already have endorsed many of the  


their team's loss. The band provided a definite change of pace for Irish fans. 
No charges filed against NO alums 
By REGIS COCCIA reports," Zappia said. "That from the St. Joseph County Jail Senior Staff Reporter was the determination that was on a $250 bond, according to Lt. made, and I believe it was ap-Richard Kilgore of the South 
No charges will be filed propriate." Bend Police Department. In an against the two Notre Dame The alumni, Thomas Abood interview after the Sept. 9 inci­alumni who were arrested at and Thomas Fink, both 24, of dent, Kilgore said it was not an off-campus party three Chicago, were arrested by clear in the police report why weeks ago, according to An-South Bend police on Sept. 9 for the dog bit Abood. Kilgore thony Zappia, a South Bend at-alleged disorderly conduct. A could not be reached for further torney representing the police dog used in the arrest comment. alumni. jumped on Abood and bit him, Zappia said he obtained 
Zappia, a Notre Dame the police record stated. copies of the police reports graduate, said he was notified Fink, who was accompany­from the prosecutor's office by St. Joseph County Prosecu-ing Abood, tried to pull the dog and determined that the facts tor Michael Barnes about a away. Both men were then did not call for charges against week after the incident that no taken into custody. Abood was either of his clients. facts warranted any charges. taken to Memorial Hospital for "Charges are not going to be 
"Mr. Barnes reviewed the treatment of injuries from the filed, period. The bond both Mr. police reports and determined police dog, according to the Fink and Mr. Abood paid has the charges were not warran-police report. already been released to ted based on the facts in the Both men were released them," Zappia said. 
demands of the People's Front. 
The People's Front, formed in April, says it does not chal­lenge the authority of the Com­munist Party and is not inter­ested in breaking away from the Soviet Union. But some members say privately that their ultimate goal is indepen­dence. 
The group claims member­ship of 60,000 of Estonia's 1.5 million people. 
Without naming the People's Front specifically, Gorbachev and the Kremlin leadership have expressed support for populist movements and en­dorsed Estonian-proposed reforms for putting the republic's economy in the hands of local managers and preserving the native culture. 
Bush and Quayle differ over arms 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Sen. Dan Quayle said the United States should make completion of a treaty on long-range nuclear weapons conditional on Soviet concessions on conventional arms, a position that differs from that of Vice President George Bush, The New York Times reported. 
In an interview reported in the newspaper's Sunday edi­tions, Quayle said he was worried the Soviets would not negotiate seriously on cutting conventional weapons if the two superpowers reach a prior agreement in their strategic arms reduction talks. 
"If we negotiate on START, what leverage do we have on conventional?'' Quayle told the Times. 
The Reagan administration has rejected the idea of linking talks on strategic nuclear arms with talks on conventional arms, saying it would delay completion of a strategic arms treaty. The Bush campaign has endorsed that position. 
Quayle said in the interview he would follow administration policy if he became vice pres­ident. 
"The view of the Bush cam­paign is that we are going to proceed with START, and we want to talk about conventional arms control," Quayle said. "But there has not been the linkage that I discussed." 
If Bush is elected President, Quayle said top officials "will 
sit down and discuss what the 
strategy is going to be" on nu­
clear and conventional arms is­
sues. 
Quayle, a member of the Sen­ate Armed Services Commit­tee, had not previously revealed these positions in the campaign, the Times said. 


IN BRIEF 
FatherWilliamBeauchamp,NotreDame's executive 
vice president and campaign chairman for the United Way 
of St. Joseph County, reported the 1988 United Way fund 
drive has raised $986,899. The figure represents 29 percent 
of United Way's goal of $3,405,000. At a campaign report 
meeting last week, Father William Beauchamp thanked 
the companies and individuals who had contributed to the 
drive early and urged others to respond promptly.-The 
Observer 

OF INTEREST 
AIESEC will hold a training session tonight at 7:30 in 124 Hayes-Healy. Call Jeff at 283-3376 for more information. -The Observer GSU Women's Resource Committee will hold a brown bag lunch Tuesday at 12: 15 in the Library Lounge. A representative from the National Organization for Wo­men will speak on the new campaign for the Equal Rights Amendment. -The Observer Post-Graduate Opportunities Night will be held Tuesday from 7 to 10 p.m. at the CSC. Students are invited to discuss post graduation volunteer options. -The Obser­ver United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War will meet at 8:30p.m. in the Lewis Hall Party Room. New members are welcome. -The Observer Crop Walk will begin 1:30 p.m. on Sunday at St. Joe's High School. The walk is a 10 kilometer fundraiser for hunger coalitions and the South Bend Food Bank. Sign ups this week in all dorms. -The Observer Sophomore Service Project Committee will hold an organizational meeting at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room, LaFortune. Anyone interested in helping with the Runaway Shelter is welcome. -The Observer Senior Reflection Group is now accepting sign ups at the CSC. Friday is the deadline. -The Observer Urban Plunge registration ends today. ND students must return forms at the CSC, Campus Ministry, or dorm reps. SMC Students must return forms to the Office of Justice Education, Campus Ministry, or dorm reps. -The Observer "Christ and Athletics" will be the topic of a lecture by Joe Yonto, assistant athletic director. The discussion is sponsored by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes tonight at 8 in St. Edward's Hall Chapel. -The Observer Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit ali sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it.  
Design Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor ...... Robyn Simmons Design Assistant . . . . Bernadette Shilts Accent Designer. . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Sedlack Typesetter . . . . . ............... Jim Mercurio Typists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . Diana Bradley News Editor..................... Michelle Dall ............................................ Will Zamer Copy Editor ........ .......... Rachael Jarosh ND Day Editors . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Diana Bradley Sports Copy -Editor .......... Theresa Kelly .................................... Jennifer Richards Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Mike Truppa SMC Day Editor ..................... Liz Lobb Asst. Viewpoint Editor .... Lisa O'Malley Photographer ........ Suzi Hernandez Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . Annette Rowland Tbe Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Oblerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tbe Oblener, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. TM Oblener is a member of TM Aaodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

INSIDE COLUMN 
'Don't worry, be happy' is bad advice 
Bobby McFarrin may very well be a talented musician and a dazzling performer, but there is definitely something wrong with his song, "Don't Worry, Be Happy" because every time it comes on the radio, people cringe. 
This is more than a case of pop stations killing a song about living the good life like what hap­pened to Whitney's "GreatestLove of All." Bob­by's problem is his message itself... Who buys it? 
He probably does. But then, he can buy a lot. He's made more than a million dollars with four words. Why should he worry? 
Does he have twenty-six thousand dollars in college loans to pay off? Does he have a total of eleven dollars to his name, 9 of which are in a checking account for which he cannot find the checks? Or, has he just realized that after forty-thousand dollars and four years of college that he could make more money holding a road construction flag than in his chosen career field? 
Probably not. But we have all faced these questions in the college community and "Don't Worry, Be Happy" just doesn't cut it .as a .so­lution for gray hairs and ulcers. SociOlogists tell us that college-aged individuals face the most stress of all ages and maybe we could use a little of this simplistic advice, but deadlines, jobs and career plans kind of get in the way. 
Has his boss just told him that he could screw up a two-car parade? Did he have a Whitesnake song running through his head while he was trying not to think about the fact that he really had to go to the bathroom halfway through the LSAT exam on Saturday? Or did he try to drop a class he's never been to on Friday only to discover the last drop day was Thursday? 
Sure, if failing a class isn't something you'd mind too horribly, you probably shouldn't wor­ry. But most of us don't intend to go to school to fail. Yet it happens to the best of us, and most of the time, worrying does no good for the situation. But, like snow falling on South Bend, worrying about these things is unavoidable. 
They have a way of staring us in the eyes like 
a praying mantis or of sitting on our shoulders 
like a lead balloon. 

Sometimes, we realize that getting a 'D' in 
our major or attending "Choose a Major Night" 
as a Senior may very well be our fault, but in 
the face of realizing our mistakes, it's not likely 
that we're going to tell ourselves to be happy 
and not worry about it. People associate a 
worry-free life with being a 'blow-off'. A worry­
free life is potentially hazardous when you fail 
a Music Appreciation exam for the sake of Mar­
guaritaville, or when you declare yourself one too many academic holidays only to return to class and be handed a blue book by surprise. 

Maybe we shoud have been worrying all along about these things instead of the other things we worry about. The song has a point, in this case. No, we should not worry about being told that last night's date resembled a sweaty pig from Guam, or which color socks best matches khaki pants. These things just don't matter, and they are things that we worry about. 
It may be stupid, it may be productive, but it's definitely unavoidable. That's why his point is moot and frustrating for people in a strive­to-succeed environment. 
People don't exactly have control over whe­ther or not they will worry. Things just come up and to live life without reacting to them in some way is virtually impossible. 
Society doesn't work that way, either. If we don't worry, won't get anywhere, and if we don't get anywhere, we won't be happy, becuase our reward structure isn't built to advance those of us who take off for Jamaica in the face of dis­aster and social responsibility. 
And, you can bet that Bobby doesn't totally buy into it, either. Mter all, making it in the music business means more than being a one­time-wonder, and the pressure is on for him to do another song. Don't worry, Bobby, now that you have annoyed your public, be happy. 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S."s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing

11 II LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 
]

This week's activity: If9£1111 IJYrn~!f 
Movie: ~a~ rn/A\Will1J@ & ~W Tues. Wed 9& 1 1 Thurs. 7 & 9 s1 (spoasoncl b'f StfC Seraior Class) Carroll Aud 
Picnic: SMC Library Green_ Brats and root beer_ 4:30-6:1 5 ~ames too. NO ~et coex's 10/4-10/5 
SMC Gardens: SMC FIELD~ look for the tents_ S1 admission. DL free pop & munchies~ 2/21 I D's required_ 9pm-I am 

S61BT 116RY'S COLLEGE 

~-------=,....w 
Monday, October 3, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
Top ticket, and not running mates, sway voters'opinions 
Associated Press a specialist in political history in Austin, said Bush's choice of at George Washington Univer­Quayle "doesn't seem to have 
WASHINGTON--Democrats sity in Washington. too much effect on the voters, 
who hope Sen. Lloyd Bentsen "People will be looking for at least so far." 
will help the ticket win his Quayle to blow it,'' said Samuel "I don't think, if indeed Bush 
home state of Texas and per­Kernen, professor of political was disposed to choose Quayle 
haps the presidential election science at the University of to appeal to women, that so far 
could do well to regard the fate California at San Diego. "If he it has had that effect," Ms. Ros­
of Henry Gassaway Davis. can get through the debate in tow said. 
Davis was Democrat Alton a competent fashion where he Parker's running mate when looks unexceptional, it will be "I think the conventional wis­Parker ran for president a real success for him." dom that the selection of a run­against Republican Teddy Eddie Mahe Jr., a Republi­ning mate is rarely decisive Roosevelt in 1904. can political consultant, said, one way or another is ab­
The voters chose between "I think it is reasonable to sug­solutely true," said Ribuffo. Roosevelt and Parker, and gest that George Bush would
Rebels of the Karen minority train Burmese students in the handling of 
their choice was Roosevelt by have won Indiana (Quayle's
U.S.-made M-16 rifles. Nearly 2,000 students have fled to their region Asurvey conducted this year a 3-2 margin. home state) without Mr. by the Hearst Corp. supports
following violent suppression of anti-government protests in Rangoon. 

Experts concede that the Quayle, and with Mr. Bentsen, this view. vice presidential debate in Mike Dukakis is still not going Omaha, Neb., on Wednesday to carry Texas. So you wash Eighteen percent of the 1,001 between Bentsen and Republi­that out." voters surveyed said they had can Dan Quayle may make a "I think the odds are that changed their minds about a difference, but they say the Quayle will have little or no ef­presidential candidate at one voters' final decision will come fect on the ultimate choice," time or another because of down to a choice between the said Thomas Mann, program their opinion of his running top of the tickets, Democrat Mi­director for governmental mate. Of those, 70 percent said chael Dukakis and Vice Presi­studies at the Brookings Insti­they voted against that ticket. dent George Bush. tution. 
"Unless Quayle is absolutely Elspeth Rostow, a political Political experts agree that destroyed in the debate with scholar at the Lyndon B. if a running mate has any ef­Bentsen, I don't think it will Johnson School of Public Af­fect, he is more likely to hurt hurt Bush," said Leo Ribuffo, fairs at the University of Texas than help. 
--e-­

Obscene phone caller
Sainl Mary~ ~lrl>r 
NO!ll.l DAM[ 1Nn\'ilA, 

harasses SMC students 
a!Eptedby 

\LEWI!i EiALANTIERE By JULIE RYAN to be friends with the girl who 
frcrn the play by 

News Staff answers the call, said Chlebek. 
JEAN ANOUILH 
He begins asking questions 

For the third year in a row, such as, "What are you the St. Mary's Security Depar­doing?" and then progresses to tment has issued a newsletter more personal questions like, advising students how to han­"What color of underwear are dle obscene phone calls, Direc­you wearing?" tor of Safety and Security Rich­In the newsletter, the Secur­ard Chlebek said. ity Department advised stu­
According to Chlebek, dents to immediately hang up obscene phone calls happen at when the caller starts asking this time every year. personal questions. 
Atypical caller phones in the Security warned students not middle of the night, pretending to talk to strangers or to tell them they are uninterested. If the obscene phone calls persist, Security can screen the calls or install a switch to elim­inate all late-night phone calls. In past years, the caller has identified himself as a repre­sentative of the National Edu­
costume and scene deslg'l by LINDA H. WIGLEY 
cation Association and asked
lighting by THDMA!i W. WHIPKEY 
students to participate in a
October 5 • 6 • 7 • Bat 8:10 October 9, at 3:10 
sexuality survey. This year,
D'L..aughlln Auditorium Box Office £!84-46£!6 
the caller has been identified 

A Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production prec;pnrf'd blJ :=;a1m Mary's [ollege Department of Communication lit Theatre 
by "the panty question," Chlebek said. 
r~~~--~~----------~~~ 
••••••••• ••••••••••.! FACULTY AND STUDENT
:I 11~~j>_T]Q~ 
: Would you like to get $100 for having: 
TO LEARN MORE 
• a great time? •'I ABOUT THE NEW : Then participate in our : 1 
. •'
: OJJ~ •cs oo~ : ~~~!!~~~~l~ 
October 4, Tuesday, 4 O'clock
: October 6 : : beginning at 9:00 PM : : First prize --$100! : 
Hesburgh Memorial Library Lounge 
: Call Maura at 283-3723 if interested : 
(Refreshments) 
----·---~~~-------..... 


Multicultural fall festival1988 

October 3-9 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS FIRESIDE CHATS OCTOBER 3-7 

12:15 P.M. * I.S.O. LOUI'JGE 
CULTURE ON THE QUAD OCTOBER 3-7 12-1 P.M.* FIELDHOUSE MALL 

ETHNIC ENTERTAIN~J1ENT OCTOBER 3-7 4:30 P.M. * Fl ELDHOUSE MALL 
JOSIAH REGGAE CONCERT OCTOBER 4 8:30P.M. * THEODORES 

TASTE OF NATIONS OCTOBER 8 9 P.M.-1 A.M.* STEPAN CENTER 
MAKEBA I MASEKELA CONCERT 
OCTOBER 9 8 P.M. ~ STEPAN CENTER 
Spo-nsored by Multicultural Executive Council 

1/2 sheet

r--------------------~.-----:.------------------------llllllllt---­

112 sheet

PLAY THE UNIV. PIZZA FB POOL 
NOTRE DAME  AT  PITISBURGH  
MICHIGAN ST.  AT  MICHIGAN  
PURDUE  AT  ILLINOIS  
SAN JOSE ST.  AT  STANFORD  
OREGON  AT  usc  
NAVY  AT  AIR FORCE  
CINCINATII  AT  PENN ST.  
RICE  AT  TCU  
OHIO ST.  AT  INDIANA  
OKLAHOMA  AT  TEXAS  
AUBURN  AT  LSU  
TEXAS A&M  AT  HOUSTON  

n..oEIIPnational message. The Observer/Mike Moran A channel 22 film team joined students, faculty and the participants hope to bring the divestment issue others during an anti-apartheid rally Friday on the to the attention of the administration. steps of the Administration building. Through the rally, 
AftEN,.ION S,.UDEN,.S!! AftEN,.ION S,.UDEN,.S!! 
N07RE DAME'S DEVELOPMEN7 PHONE CEN7ER NOW HIRING (Located in Badin Hall) 
75 Student Positions Available $4.50 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 7:15-10:30; Some daytime hours 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House I Information Session at the Development Phone Center October 5 from 7:00_Q[ll -8:00 pm PLEASE JOIN US 

For more information, call Carol McClory, 239-7938 

. FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 

A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, C.S.C. "IS THERE LIFE BEYOND ARTS AND LETTERS? THE ADVANTAGES OF MAJORING IN A USELESS DISCIPLINE" 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1988 
7:30 P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 

UNIVERSift PIZZA DELIVERY 
THIS WEEK'S SPECIALS: Mon (10/3) 1/2 sheet with 2 toppings $9.99 Tues ( 10/4) buy any 114 sheet and get 2 free Cokes Wed (10/5) 1/2 sheet with 4 toppings $10.99 Thurs (1 0/6) 2 free Cokes with any pizza order 
FREE DELIVERY 277-8889 
University Pizza Delivery 18055 State Road 23 · (behind Campus View) 

Open until Midnight Sun-Thurs 
Matt Highbarger 

Open until 3am Fri/Sat 
$1 OFF 
N
I u 
I I 
v
I E I s R I I I T I y 
p
I II z 
z
I A
I 
I 
1/2 sheet 
$1 
$1 
OFF

(no purchase necessary) 
WIN A 2 TOPPING FULL SHEET & 6 SODAS 
RULES 

I. To enter, circle the team you expect to win each of the 12 games listed. Also, enter the total points you expect to be scored in the tiebraker game. 
2. 
Give your entry to a UPD driver, or drop in our store by 3 am Sat I 0/8/88 

3. 
Persons with most correct picks wins, in the event of a tie, the person closest to actual points scored in the tiebraker game wins. Winner will be announced on Mon. Oct. 17, 1988. 


Name_______________ Address.______ Phone 

. Your eotry is worth $1 off any half sheet 112 sheet 
page 5 

Racial problems in South Africa remain 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa--Government officials are elated by the success of their diplomatic offensive into black Africa, but foes of apar­theid said Sunday the cam­paign does nothing to resolve domestic racial problems. 
"Africa is talking to South Africa," President P. Botha said after meeting Saturday with President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire. It was Botha's third summit with a black African leader in three weeks. 
City Press, South Africa's largest-selling black newspa­per, described the visit to Zaire as "sheer hypocrisy." An offi­cial of the African National Congress guerrilla movement condemned Mobutu for agree­ing to meet Botha. 
Foreign Minister Pik Botha and the president said on the flight from Zaire that the in­creasingly open contacts be­tween South Africa and its black neighbors discredited the sanctions campaign waged against South Africa by West­ern countries opposed to apar­theid. 
Apartheid establishes a ra­cially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the 


THIS WEEK'S GAMES OCTOBER 8, 1988 
TIEBRAKER: ENTER TOTAL POINTS SCORED IN N.D. -PIITSBURGH GAME.__________ 
economy and maintain sepa­rate districts, schools and health services. 
"I have often stated that South Africa has something to convey to Africa, and espe­cially to southern Africa," President Botha said. "Now, suddenly, it seems they are coming to grips with this truth." 
City Press, in an editorial Sunday, said, "What is the point of achieving peace and stability with neighbors when your own country is engulfed in flames?" 
Apartheid must be abolished and negotiations held with legitimate black leaders, City Press said. "Until these mini­mum demands are met, Mr. Botha can tour the rest of Africa as much as he likes ­peace will not come to this country." 
Stanley Mabizela, the ANC's chief representative in Zim­babwe, said African leaders should shun Botha because he "executes people who are vic­tims of an inhuman society, as well as political prisoners." 
The summit also drew criticism in Zaire, where troops fired warning shots to disperse university students protesting Botha's visit. 
Contras 
continued from page 1 
by the Agency for International Development. 
No deliveries were made in­side Nicaragua because agree­ment could not be reached with the Sandinista government on an acceptable delivery system. 
The officials said they expect opposition to the proposed training programs from mem­bers of Congress hostile to the Contras who don't want them to survive as a viable organi­zation. 
The prospects for a renewal of military aid for the rebels are not good. The aid package, initially approved by the Sen­ate in August, authorized the release of $16.5 million in stock­piled military equipment under certain conditions. 
But the funds would require congressional approval before adjournment of the current ses­sion, and there is only about a week left before members go home until the next session starts in January. 
'NO '89 owner

.....__________________....,jl-o-......_____________lllli_________l....__,...
OFF 

expires1 0/8/88 J~F 
page6 The Observer 
Military officials are puzzled by US jet fighters' high accident rate 

HElP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

FRIDAY, OCT. 7-8:30 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME Joyce ACC All Seats Reserved -$17.50 & $15.50 
TICKETS ON SALE at JACC (9 am-5 pm) and at all Ticketmaster locations. Michiana locations are L.S AYRES (UP & Scottsdale Malls), NIGHTWINDS (No. Viii. Mall & Niles, Mich.), SUPER SOUNDS (Concord Mall, Elk­hart), CARSON PIRIE SCOTT (Mich. City), MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). 
Charge-by-Phone 1-800-284-3030 
For info, call 239-7354 

SWING STREET .. The newest Manilow album on ARISTA chrome cassettes. records. and compacl doses. 
Monday, October 3, 1988 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The Navy and Air Force, each puzzled by an unexpected increase in ac­cidents this summer involving high-performing jets, have failed to find a common thread to explain the mishaps, offi­cials said. 
From a historical standpoint, the current accident rates for 
None injured in hijacking 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Three Haitian 
soldiers armed with rifles who 
forced their way onto an Amer­
ican Airlines jetliner in Haiti 
were arrested Saturday when 
the plane landed at Kennedy 
Airport, officials said. 
No one was injured in the in­
cident, said American Airlines 
spokesman Jim Brown. The 
three men had surrendered 
their weapons before the 
were waiting when the plane, 
with 224 passengers and a crew 
of nine, arrived about 8:15p.m 
in New York. The three men 
were arrested without incident, 
Brown said. 
"They intended no harm to 
anyone, there was no threat of 
violence," said James Fox, 
director of the FBI's New York 
office. "They just said they 
wanted to leave Haiti for New 
York City." 
American Airlines Flight 658 
took off at 4:40p.m. after the 
three soldiers slipped under a 
wire fence that surrounds Port­
au-Prince International Air­
port and ran aboard the plane, 
airport employees said. 
Radio Haiti Inter said the 
plane's captain agreed to fly 
the three men to New York, the 
plane's destination. The station 
said the men made no political 
statements. 
Eric Boucicault, director American Airlines in Haiti, said "three soldiers on duty en­tered at the end of the line of passengers with a determined air. We could not refuse their entrance. As a result of negotiation, they deposited all their arms, pistols and rifles, in the pilot's cabin. 
"Now they are seated calmly in their seats, and normal ser­vice is being maintained," he said before the airplane landed in New York. 
Flight 658 runs daily between New York and the capital city of Port-au-Prince, where it ar­rives about 2 p.m. and leaves after 4 p.m. 
"The pilot did a super job," said passenger Cameron Smith of Boston. "He negotiated a deal with them. He put them up in first class and tended to them the rest of the way." 
Other passengers were not immediately let off the plane as authorities questioned them. The approximately 200 people who were waiting for the flight's arrival said they were not told about the incident until the plane landed. 
Haiti has been beset by tur­moil in recent weeks. 
Navy and Air Force fighter and attack jets are not out of line, according to officials. Indeed, they said the Navy is actually enjoying one of its all-time safest years for aviation. 
Accident spurts involving the Navy's F-14s and the Air Force's F-16s have prompted both services to launch careful monitoring campaigns. 
The Air Force said it has found no equipment problems, but has changed some of its pilot training techniques and increased supervision because of the rise in mishaps. 
Officials said last year's F -16 accidents involved pilots who lost consciousness as a result of fast aerial maneuvers or who became disoriented and lost track of where they were. 

airplane left Port-au-Prince. ..-...-----------------------------------------,.--.
Airport security and the FBI 

We've reformed the
correction system. 

Prisoners of old-fashioned correction systems, freedom is here. 
Smith Corona's Correcting Cassette means an end to twists, tangles and fumbles. 
It's an easy-to-load, drop-in correction tape you can insert in mere seconds. 
There are no spools to unwind. No complicated thread­ing. No more muttering under your breath. It's that simple. 
What's just as simple is our Right Ribbon System~M It simply prevents you from using the wrong combination of ribbon and correcting cassette. 
You'll find our Correcting Cassette and Right Ribbon System on the Smith Corona XL 2500 typewriter. 
You'll also find lots of other great features on the XL 2500­like the Spell-RigheM 50,000 word electronic dictionary, full line correction,WordEraser® and more. 

You might expect a type­writer this sophisticated to cost a bundle, but the XL 2500 is surprisingly affordable. All of which makes it one of the best values you can find today. 
Case closed. 



For more information on this product, write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 or Smith Corona (Canada Ltd.), 440 Tapscott Road, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada MIB IY4. 
Viewpoint
Monday, October 3, 1988 page 7 
Social work an option after graduation 
WIIA1 \Xl£5 l~E  OlYMPICS ME~N TO YOU?  
~J Wlll\IN PIJRYIS\\, !q, EOO!SlR~II (I'IM'fl ~E).Sll"• liM: ' SI'IR!I ~ COMP£\ITION. r,ilr.MC! To MEET BllYAN1 GUMBU'  rillOll~o IV=IC", 23,ZEPI'Elltl Rl:rt'IE~. VSS~: "00111 "~VE 10 WNIIH liKE RlMlfo.\'  ,-, 8~~ ~SANDY SMEEL, 21. 11lD ll\VOO, USA : ' IF WE 'MN , A WUEr.J\1~ BOX COYER AMD IUNIY Of l'm.'b'  
lQJKM Clll. 20,OCfftli'ICS lSI!ll. r,. ~OI!EA 'Cf1TO M9R ~~T~EI!ll· Gfl!oWI ~-l tlTI\EfiiSlo(Xllllol •  J~ \-~~\~~~.. ' ~Z.~Il. m. USA. '150,ooo r.m COMiftiALt"  ~ COli II. PMIDlUS, NE~nlCIJTIVE.I/SA. '150,000 !£[!\ COMMEllCl~t'!."  
Doonesbury  
OH, ON/3 mR/3 THING. I'V/3 HIRW A Nl31A/ SOCIA/; 01­RUTOR.  SOCIAL­/)IR/3C7DR? I  

For some people, living out the mes­sage of one's faith can be another mo­tivation to become a volunteer. Living out the message of one's faith can take many different forms. The commit­ment to volunteer your services to a marginalized community is not an easy choice. It requires the denial of the life­style you have grown accustomed to and an embracing of an often radically different lifestyle. What's the point in rejecting all the material things you and your family worked so hard to gain? There is no easy answer. There is a feeling though. A feeling of solidarity and an attempt to under­stand, from the inside out, a part of society that is rarely given a voice. 
And one does not need to necessarily go to a foreign country to feel the effects of living on the margins of society, of being a minority. Perhaps even more revealing is for one to enter a commu­nity in one's own country in which one is a minority. To perceive that you are being prejudged by someone who knows nothing about you personally can be disconcerting to say the very least. To realize this is to open your heart and mind to a whole new perspective on cul­ture, politics and economics among other things. 
Another aspect of volunteering that provides an invaluable experience is community living. If my housemates and I learn nothing this year, we will at least have learned the meaning of flexibility. Five persons and one car necessitates some clever planning and a lot of give-and-take. community living also provides a forum for more learning. An experience is worth very 
P.O. Box Q 
little unless it is absorbed and looked at critically. My housemates and I pro­vide each other with opposing views which cause us to reevaluate our own positions. 
Reading over what I had already written, one of my housemates pointed out that I was not conveying adequately what we had thus far experienced be­cause I had failed to mention the "fun" side of the story. Sometimes we are blind to the obvious. "The toughest job you'll ever love" slogan comes to mind. The five of us are involved in several different programs in a community lo­cated fifteen minutes from San Juan. 
Our separate projects include or­ganizing a cooperative of local artisans, running a soup kitchen for the elderly, and beginning a library program to en­courage children to read. Every after­noon for three hours the five of us also tutor children after school in various subjects. It is hard to describe the inner joy that is felt when that fifteen-year­old comes to you and tells you that he wants to learn how to tell time. Or when the old toothless woman grins from ear to ear when she sees you coming to the door with her lunch. And I cannot forget to mention the time and experiences shared with my new "family." Getting a flat tire at dusk down at the docks and discovering then that we had no jack or spare tire was only one of many. We have begun a year together that has already been and promises to be filled with new and exciting learning and growing experiences. 
Thomas J. Kelly is a 1988 Notre Dame Arts and Letters graduate currently living in Puerto Rico. 

Editor's Note: All interested are urged to visit the Post Graduation Opportuni­ties Fair at the Center for Social Con­cerns on Tuesday, Oct. 4,from 7:00­
10:00 p.m. Speak .with representatives ofmore than 30 groups, including Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates, and others. 
"Why volunteer?" Sitting around the kitchen table after dinner, my four housemates and I here in Puerto Rico quickly decided that was the fundamen­tal question this article should address. Over two hours later we had a list two pages long of reasons why we chose volunteer work as a post graduate op­tion. Perhaps the most important con­clusion we made is that there are many different reasons why one may choose to commit himself to a volunteer pro­gram as well as a variety of types of volunteer programs available. Post Grad Volunteer night at the Center for Social Concerns provides the potential volunteer with an opportunity to be­come better acquainted with several different programs. 
Thomas Kelly 
guest column 

What would motivate a senior in col­lege, finishing up four years of prepa­ration for the work world or graduate school, to devote a year or two to volun­teering? The choice to volunteer is not always an easy one. For every senior sure of his or her decision to volunteer, there are several unsure of whether their desire to volunteer is a wise one. Institutions and family expectations cham,el •JS in certain dil •·ctions. and break mg the pattern of th!S process is oJot lllwayf: Pasy Some people will say that doing volunteer work is a waste of a year better spent gaining work expe­rience or continued schooling. But how can a year spent facing personal chal­lenges and opening oneself up to new environments be denied its inherent value? In the short six weeks we have been here, we can only marvel at how much we have learned, not only about the people we are working with, but also about ourselves. 
Volunteer work also should not nec­essarily be viewed as a career ''break,'' an interim between other endeavors. Several of my housemates, for exam­ple, have approached this year as a nat­ural step in careers such as economics and law. Statistics and graphs can tell an economist all he thinks he needs to know about an area's economic char­acter. But let him talk to a family living at the poverty level, and he will ap­proach his material the next time in a very different manner. 
No study or statistic tells the full story. So much more insight is gained through direct contact. For example, our situation here in Puerto Rico has made us aware of the colonial syndrome typical to most Third World nations as we had never understood it before. The colonial experience has left an indelible mark on the Puerto Rican people and accounts for many cultural attitudes that are misunderstood by foreigners. Learning about the Ameri­can role here has also caused us to take a critical look at ourselves as members of a nation whose political, economic and cultural dominance is staggering. 

Senior Reflection proves rewarding 
Dear Seniors: 

The Senior Reflection Groups are an outstanding opportunity for seniors to meet and discuss some common inter­ests and feelings as they near the end of their four years at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We feel that it is our duty to make you aware of this potentially great experience so that you do not pass it up. This is a unique way of getting involved and reflecting on our college life and future plans. 
The group, consisting of six male and 
Garry Trudeau 
MT6! TH&Re'5 NOOTH/3R.. WOROFOR IT, SIR! 
\ 
six female students, meets twice this semester and four times next semester at a faculty member's house. Home­cooked meals are prepared by the stu­dents and the atmosphere is very relax­ing and fun. This is not necessarily a religious experience--it is a chance for you to converse and encounter fellow classmates in our final year. So, if this sounds as interesting and exciting as it really is, please stop by the Center For Social Concerns before Oct. 7 and prepare yourself for a truly stimulating experience. 
Tom Tisa Senior Class President Sept. 29, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"Much human suffering is related to the false expec­tation that we are called to take each other's loneli­ness away." 
Henri Nouwen 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

The Observer is lhe independent newspaper published by the students of tlile University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not. necesserily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views.of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-In-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider Managing Edltor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ........................... , ....... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Edlfor.......................................Marty Strasen Controffer .......................................... 1odd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 

Accent

page 8 Monday, October 3, 1988 
Campus clubs get student vote 
SARAH VOIGT about the campaign issues them, both clubs hope to bers, often consolidates forces to achieve because of student accent writer and to generate enthusiasm focus on their party plat­with the Dukakis campaign apathy. Kronenberger voiced for their respective party's forms. Democrat on campus led by Mark Bet­this concern, "Many students 
V
oter polls, election predic­candidates. Both clubs aim to Kronenberger said, "We want tencourt. The Dukakis sup­just don't seem to care-­tions, and presidential encourage participation in the the club to function as a port group holds weekly especially about local elec­
i , 
campaign updates fill the local and national elections forum for information con­meetings and has over 75 vol­tions." The College newspapers as the press this year. cerning liberal issues. For unteers. They recently con­covers another election year. The first step toward these example, we are now pushing ducted a poll of 551 students Although one constantly hears ambitious goals was the voter to grant Nelson Mandela, a to test the political environ­
registration drive. Both clubs prisoner from South Africa, ment. The poll found that 44 
worked on drives like the one an honorary degree. We also percent of the students sup­
sponsored by the Student are trying to book a speaker ported Bush, 31 percent for 
Union Board that achieved a from the National Organiza­Dukakis, and 25 percent were 
record number of newly tion of Women Voters to undecided. 
registered voters. speak on the role of women in Currently, Student Govern­
These new voters are espe­the Democratic party." ment, Pasquerilla East and cially important to the Col­Mike Kraft, Co-chairman of Flanner Hall working with lege Democrats and Colfege the Young Republicans, hall fellow Professor Daniel Republicans because of this claims that his club hopes to Lapsley, and WVFI are all year's extremely close local serve as an arena for conser­planning to sponsor informal congressional race between vative issues. "Over the past question and answer sessions Democrat Tom Ward and the year the club has been where Bettencourt will repre­
the presidential campaign Republican incumbent John revived and given a breath of sent Dukakis' views. At­analyzed on the national Hiler. College Democrat's life with new leadership. We tempts to organize debates Democrats and the Collegelevel, what campus clubs are president Karl Kronenberger had over 400 volunteers sign between the two clubs fell Republicans, however, are involved with the election? explained, "We hope to spark up at Activities Night. We through last year but both both enthusiastic about the What is the political flavor of student support for Tom hope to encourage the conser­agree that they would be ben­election year. They hope that Notre Dame's campus? Ward since John Hiler only vative nature of the student eficial as election day ap­the increased political aware­
The College Democrats and won by 47 votes last year." body." Kraft said. proaches. ness on campus will continue the College Republicans both Now that the crucial busi­The College Democrats, Both club leaders find their long after the events of No­hope to educate students ness of registration is behind with a core of only 25 mem-ambitious goals often difficult vember 8. 
CBS soaps light up the nighttime for viewers 
......

Joe Bucolo 
r::;w 

To Be Continued 
T 
he suds will be higher and hate Abby need not worry. thicker than ever this She will be meaner than ever. year as CBS prepares its Whether Abby will stay in three prime time soaps for Knots Landing after this the crucial upcoming season. season remains a questions After all, nighttime soaps are since Mills' contract expires a dying breed ... or are they? this year. CBS intends to make this The Ewings at Southfork season the best for "Knots are in for some changes as Landing," "Dallas," and well on "Dallas," which CBS "Falcon Crest" by showing presents on Fridays at 8 p.m. that these bubbly serials are Show executives are guarding on a rebound. the solution to last season's 
"Knots Landing," which cliffhanger (Is J .R. really airs on CBS Thursdays at 9 dead?) with their lives, but p.m., is the strongest of these some future plot twists are soaps. Due to its realistic na­definite. ture, emotional plotlines, and An acquaintance of Miss major appeal to young Ellie (Barbara Bel Geddes) viewers, the show is able to and Clayton Farlow (Howard keep its audience in knots Keel) named Carter McKay which airs after "Dallas," the show. David Rafel will no wild terrorist plots this while still maintaining a huge (George Kennedy) will move prepares to unveil its new play Pilar's brother, still un­year as the show's plots lo­number of viewers. The into the Krebbs ranch shortly plotlines for the year. The named. cate themselves mainly in the major questions on "Knots" after Ray (Steven Kanaly) wines will certainly have a Another actor from the Tuscany Valley. There will be stem from the cliffhanger and Jenna (Priscilla Presley) more ethnic flavor this year nighttime soaps' daytime many new, expensive sets as episode in which Jill Bennett bid Dallas a fond adieu. as the show presents the counterparts will star in the well to restore the show's (Teri Austin) poisons naive Minor characters April (Sheri nighttime soaps' first show. David Beecroft (Trent ritzy look. Valene (Joan Van Ark). Wilson) and Casey (Andrew Hispanic family. of "One Life to Live") will When the fall season 
While keeping the viewers Stevens) will assume major Formerly Hope on "Days of play Melissa's cousin, an in­begins, the nighttime soaps guessing is much of the fun in roles this year while the fate Our Lives," Kristian Alfonso tellectual vagabond caught in will intrigue and entice their the show, it is safe to say that of Pamela Ewing continues to will portray Pilar Ortega, the the crossfire between the audiences and appeal to the Valene will live; however, the bother Bobby (Patrick Duf­daughter of Angela Chan­Channing and Agretti next generation of soap real trick will be connecting fy). ning's (Jane Wyman) families. Regular cast mem­viewers. With new charac­Jill to the crime. A smaller Once television's top-rated foreman. Pilar is an am­ber David Selby will be back ters, new sets, new plots, and cliffhanger involving Paige show, "Dallas" has had its bitious banker who will as Richard Channing. a new season ahead of them, Matheson (Nicollette share of ratings problems. In rapidly become one of the "Falcon Crest" intends to the shows will attempt to 
Sheridan) and Michael Fair­an attempt to regain the show's main characters as improve its ratings by regain­regain their esteem and keep 
gate (Pat Peterson) will not show's high status, show ex­the character of Melissa ing the show's central prem­their audiences covered with be so easily solved as the two ecutives have refined the (Ana-Alicia) is written out of ise and luxury. There will be suds. 




attempt to escape from their show's format. "Dallas" will 
Calvin and Hobbes

kidnappers in Mexico. continue in a serial format, A new character, Ted Mul­but will focus more on Texas 
FOR S\40'tl ~0 it.LL, 1 


i£5, FoR TI\E. \.ASI TWO DA'tS
cher (Robert Devederia) will and Southfork ranch. 
I'VE. BEEN 't(EEP1!4G IT IN
BROIJSI-\T A. SPft-CE "'\.IE.'* 

arrive in town this season Episodes will feature more 
1 CAPTVRE.D IN M'{ BAC.K 

1\1\S SPE.CII>..l ZI>.RNIVtw\·C~\E.D 
\%,,~I) ttt:t>I~G II 1'\IRE. Ato\tw\0\lih\.!
just in time to serve as Greg outdoor scenery and turn 
Sumner's (William Devane) away from such far-fetched publicist and help the ex­plots as Ray's "fatal attrac­Senator to get back into the tion" to a killer. Show execu­public eye. This can only tives hope these changes will mean Greg is up to no good. arouse more viewer interest Abby Ewing (Donna Mills) in the show. will begin the season in a The vineyards of California more sympathetic mood; will have more than their fill however, viewers who love to of drama as "Falcon Crest," 
Bill Watterson  
~D ~. 1\\£ MOM£\-IT '1\Jl.J"~E. ft-U. B££.!11 'AA.\T\N~ I=OR I  M~ 1t.MJ\E.R s"'~s Me~ ~D 0~0 BCl1\\ Ht..IJE mSIGN. 1-\'i RE~i ~?.OS 'lli\S '(EAR.  

Monday, October 3, 1988 The Observer page 9 
n.0....Notre Dame office, located on the third floof' of LaFortune Stu­dent Center accepts classified advertiiMng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. The 0....Saint ~office, located on the third Hoor of Haw-Collge Center, accepts clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day claasllleda Ia 3 p.m. All claasllleda muat
Classifieds be prepaid, either In penson or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per live cMnlclera per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ...................................................... DO YOU LIKE JAZ27 DO YOU LIKE REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­cert SUNDAY, OCT. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Centar. 239-7442 & 239-4826. WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE HALL7 See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center for ONLY $4 to $101 239-7442 & 284·4626 TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Booke for ALL ctaaue etlll evaltablel UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora'e Booka, 808 Howard St., Juat oH of NO Ave. 233-2342.  WANTED ATIENTION FOOD FANATICS IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOU! PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECE5­SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST REQUIRED!) CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272­1922. NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR BANQUET SERVERS AND BUS HELP. THESE ARE ON-CALL POSITIONS AND THERE IS SOME WEEKEND WORK INVOLVED. APPLY IN PERSON AT THE UNIVERSITY CLUB ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE.  TWO Student MIAMI tickets lor sale. Call Chris after 10:30 P.M. 288-4931. FoR ..sA"le:··;·..M"i;\;;,;i··&···;··A'iiiFoFice STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL MARY AT sei:i:iN.i3..2..sruO'ii;:;-r·;.:·IFi.F"oFic·e·;:·tx CALL1283 TIX 4 SALE 1 STU. MIAMI & I STU. AIR FORCE BEST OFFER -X4179 NEEo"2""MiAMi"Tix'."wiLL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288· 0988 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. NEED MIAMI TIX 2 GAI.l Stud call 272-3767 READY and WILUNG  MIAMI nCKETS WANTED Will trade 'Stanford. Air Force, or $$$$ tor 2 Miami GA's. Call John at 2089. Hey you wench I Happy 18th gi~l You're now OLDER than mel HAl Look lorward to an OBNOXIOUS weekend! I luv ya Sheii...Love a Bubba Lover Joe-OK. You want to hear it so muchl Hypothetically Speaking. I'm now a very happy camper Love, Kier Prediction from HR: We're gonna smash Miami's happy aes into the ground. Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher Stop by the C.S.C. on Oct. 4 from 7-10 pm tor Post Grad Opportunities Night! Find out what your options are tor after graduation.  Karen Koczaja, I really did mean It when I said I'd like to hear you sing. How 'bout It? Smackin' and Upp---Thanks tor listening­• Y'all(like that Smackin?) are the best--­Love J ST Jude Help me in my present petrtion ·;;j;·iiiN"o"iiii"EA'i<"EiA'iiiFoor'ciiuisi 50 Ft. Yachla Bimini Bahemea Groupe of 8 $435.00 PP 7 deya 1-aD0-991H245 Arrange Smell Group & Crulae Frao O.A.-1 SUPPOSE IF YOU CUT OFF YOUR OCTOPUS ARMS, I COULD BE YOUR FRIEND. I HOPE THIS IS NOT TOO GREAT A SACRIFICE! KATIE M. I know you're still out there. Lonely Gi~. and I intend to find out who you are. Why don't you just make it easier on both of us and let me know who you are?  JAN, as hard a I try, I can't help but continue the countdown ... 13 weeks 'til D. C. I (Just as soon as I get accepted!) R Heh Kathleen! How many scoops did ha give you at the ICE CREAM PARLOR? BOP, the fast-mOving, tun-loving sexual supernova, Is taking order~~ now tor her body. Buy now because she's hot and going fast and this offer won't last forever. Liz, I rn.n EIIZIIbeth, Getting loet and the Merttetlng ~Me~lng wee all • acam. I Juet wanted to maet you. How can I ever repay you for leHing me uae your phone? -Jim (1475) I heard Madeleine Garceau is hav1ng a baby... oops, I mean a BIRTHDAY. RAD "MAD-DOG" MAD IS 211 HAPPY BIRTHDAYII  
::;~~· ..·i;k;d....i;;;;;;..·~~....;;;~i....si;;;~·~:~ Graceland World Tour; You'll love them 1n person/ Mtrlem Makeba & Hugh Maaekela In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239· 7 442 & 284·4626 ALL ARE INVITED TO ST. EDWARD'S HALL TONIGHT AT 7:00 PM TO HEAR FATHER HESBURGH SPEAK ABOUT, ''THE U.S. PRESIDENTS I HAVE KNOWN."  WANTED TO BUY: Scooter or Mopedl Need not be pretty. Will pay $CASH$ on the spot! Call Tony at 288-6603. WANTED PERSON TO SHARE A HOME, 20 MIN FROM NO CALL PAM 237-5457; 8·5 wanted: translator of Czech paper 239­5027, 272-9956  to trade ANY home game ticket tor 2 Penn State GAs or 1 student. Call Jacqui at 272-7690. I NEED MIAMI STUDS. BRIAN 2131 I have 10 Miami GA's -Need I say more. Leave best offer at 284-5225.  INFORMAL DISCUSSION GROUP Senior Reflection Group Sign up by Oct. 7 et Center for Social Concern a Beat the RushI DO YOU LIKE JAZ27 DO YOU LIKE REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM MAEKBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­cert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Canter. 239-7442 & 284-4626.  RIDE. NEEDED OCT BREAK AROUND SYRACUSE NY WILL PAYI X2128 ATIENTION ALL SAPS ON SOUTH QUADII YOU know who you arel Work any good deals this weekend? We want to knowll HOLLY No matter how bad things get, we'll always be here tor you. Hang in  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE FLANAGANIll And now that you know, stop by 348 PW or call x2773 and wish her a happy onel ICE WOMAN, MUFFY, SATCH, HAIR CARE, AND PUP SMEAR I Do you think ~ was WELWORTH our time? Do we dare tell Big Boy about this? Get ready  
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'SI Will trade 1 Air  WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIA  there! We love you I -DONNA, CHERYL & SHARON  tor a group shot Oct. 251  
;:;;;·K:e""'1H'e"";;Lu.NC3ii:....;;;:;·..ufisAN PLUNGE EXPERIENCE THE CON· CERNS AND ISSUES OF AN INNER CITY NEAR YOU, AND OF THE PEOPLE WHO WORK WITH THOSE IS­SUES FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON· CERN 239-5293 OR SEE YOUR DORM REP DEADLINE OCT 311 URBAN PLUNGEII URBAN PLUNGEII URBAN PLUNGEII  FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 1979 BEIGE CHEVETTE. GOOD SHAPE. 75,000 MILES. $800. CALL 255-5125.  Force St Tckt e $.Price negotiable. Any reasonable offer accepted. Please call Jim X3681 I'VE GOT 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER AT 1089. CALL NOW! NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$. CALL CAROLE 3296. FOR SALE: One Air Force student ticket. I can even give you a non-picture ID to use with it.  HALL7 See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Canter for ONLY $4 to $101 239-7442 & 284-4626 NEED RIDE TO MASSACHUSETTS FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY!ORIVE. CALL ALLAN X4296 You liked them on Paul Simon's Graceland World Tour; You'lllove them in personl Miriam Mskeba & Hugh Masekets In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 284-4626  Going to MICHIGAN? I need ride to Ann Arbor or Detroit area Oct. 14. leave befora 2:30. Will pay for gao. ScoH # 1431 HERB: I LOVE YOUI SCOOB OK Evelyn Diaz, You still don't have to ask to get your name in the Personals. You Know Who  Hey "BUDDY", Congrats on being all done w1.SA T'S ·now you can get back to more Important things -goH, of coursei(After this week you deserve a trip to Jamaica -note, not Barbados) It's been an "interesting" 2wks.-I've been "taking It all in"ll In the meantime, "Don't worry... II" D. 0 Smelly teet Hell ol a good time Ever so OBNOXIUOS Lucky gum lush You are 18 today From your: "off the wall", il­literate, EXAGGERATED, emotional, hy­peractive, late mght roommate. ·Kerry  
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO REGt5­TER SEE YOUR HALL REP, OR STOP BY THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­CERNS OR CAMPUS MINISTRY OF­FICES. TODAY IS THE LAST DAY. ................................................................ GREG MATIEO'S LEGS DRIVE ME WILD I YOU HAVE BETIER THINGS TO 001 Send your package via UPS at THE COUN7RY HARVESTER localed for your convenience In the baMment of THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN MON-FRt 12:00-41:30 (Not an agent of UPS).  TICKETS MIAMVAIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE· MARIA-3769 NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-D058. $$$$$ Need 2 or 4 GAs·ANY HOME GAME x2707 Melissa I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  I'm only looking tor some money to spend in the Bahamas. It you need the ticket, call Jim Winkler at 1109 or anernoons at 239-7471. ALL RIGHT, ENOUGH SCREWIN' AROUND--I HAVE LOTS OF MONEY FOR MIAMI TIX. STUD OR GA'S. I WILL ALSO TRADE THE RIGHTS TO MY FIRST BORN. CALL TOM 3593. I want to trade my 4 Miami GAs·2 pair-tor 3 good Miami GAs together Call Jeff 602­795-3286 IF YOU'VE GOT $$$, I'VE GOT TICK­ETS! AIRFORCE 2 GA & 2 STU MIAMI 2 STU BEST OFFER X3855  MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND FINALE -MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Canter. 239-7442 & 284-4626 Sammy the Sand Brethen has his Stan­ford TX but Drew needs two Miami GAs. 288-6207 have BIG $$$$ SMC FALL FEST OCT 6 SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. 4:30.6:15 PIC­NIC FOR ALL (NO GET COXE'S IN DINING HALLS) 7 AND 9 SHE'S HAVING A BABY CARROLL AUD. $1 A lonely, good-looking man is looking tor Penn State tickets, either student or GA.  Ray, Don't let those friendship shots get you down tonight! 737 gi~s. FS CULTURE ON THE QUAD F4 Noon today-Fieldhouse Mall -lnternationaiStudentganization -Philippine Club FS ETHNIC ENTERTAINMENT F4 4:30 Today-Fieldhouse Mall FSIRISH FOLK SONGS F4 FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL IS HERE! FS FIRESIDE CHATS F4 Today-12:15-ISO Lounge, LaFortune Topic: Nature of Cross Cultural Experiee FS FREE LUNCH PROIDEDIII  Kathy, don't worry about the dark; your hot pink and black panties will provide you with enough light ·Mary & Jocko UNFINISHED BUSINESS CATHOUCS VS CONVICTS T-shirts, Alumni rm 169 or 135: or call1036 (OR IF YOU WANT A DATE CALL USIII) ......................................... J .................... . 4 SALE: Miami & Air Force Tix. Sold to highest bidder by Oct. 11 Call SMC4052 -Ti;;; Y~~;,g Gi~ isn't so young anymore! Will she ever find her night in shining armor? HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHELLYI love, Beth. ATIEN.TiON TO ALL THE GORGEOUS MEN I We would like to inform you that it's JENNIFER FESSETI'S 19TH B-DAY  
\ LOST/FOUND l LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI GOLD CHAIN LINK BRACELET LOSTI LOSTI LOST! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL FRAN AT I 2999, I 3023 LOST A Gold Chain was lost Saturday on the quad between the South Dining Hall and Badin /llound, contact Vinca at 1606. rhere Is a reward' $$$$ s Lost !v.!71 Blue Notre Dame bookbag with gray suede bottom. Please return to 208 Lew1s Hall or call Lenore at II 2198. No questiOns asked I really need my notes and notebooks back as soon as possible Midterms start Thursday and wffhout my notes Dad WON'T be happy Whoever took my green backpack from South Dining Hall Tues. please return it. AI least my notebook and folder. Kris x2599 LOST: Blue· faded Levi jacket. left in U­brary Aud1tonum on Sept. 22. It found. please contact Kevin at 1128. Thank you.  desparely need 2 gas lor miami (upset) game 2723491 Need 1 MIAMI STUD Ticket. Please call ANNE II 3736 I need 2 AF GA'sl DAWNx22B6 2 M1ami GA"s 4 sale-best offer· Greg(904)492-1404 I HAVE MANY TIX FOR ND-AF. WILL TRADE OR SELL. CALL COLLECT 312·563-5840 OR 312-599-3210. I NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, STANFORD, RICE, PENN ST. CALL COLLECT 312· 563-5840 OR 312-599-3210. Ne.eo..;;e·NN..sr....ri<Ts:(sr"Ciii""G';\i WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALL JOE 277­0725 Hii;;i·i·~~;;d'5"i.1"tAM'i.ii~·~·:·~~;·;y~~·:.;;itt do. x1604 ROB HELP''CO'NvEFn 1.u. FAN·s··;:o··;:·HE IRISH. I NEED 4 OR 6 G.A.'s FOR AIR FORCE. TOGETHER IF POSSIBLE CALL JOE 272-9591 $$$$ ii~;;··;;;;;;;;~ ..; ..~;··;; ..G;:~··i~;··M";~;;;;·;.:·~~ seat--any price Call Megan at 4824 couLii soMEBODY PLEAse sELL ME THREE PENN GA'S CALL PAT 283-1775  HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete at 287·5871. NEED MIAMI GA'S. 1063. NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR CARLOS 289·8417 I NEED 2, 3 or 4 AIR FORCE GA's I Call Duane at x1881. FoR...sAi:E':..;·..;.;·I;\M"i""&··;..·;.:·iiiFoii'ce student ticket--BEST OFFER--call Mary at# 2286 I need 2-4 Gas tor Air Force and Pitt call 2261 Ten Canadien hoaeheeds ere coming down for the MIAMI game, and they're bringing Ice cold Canadian beer and a bunch of funny looking money wlth them. They're offering both beer and caah for GAs. Good deal, eh7 Call Marty at 1471 Two Miami Tickets and Three Air Force Tickets  Will offer sexual sacrifices at any hour. Call Danny at # 1450 ADMISSION 9-1 FALL FEST GARDENS $1 ADMISSION, SOc. BEVERAGE (21 I.D.) SMC FALL FEST OCT. 6 ONE, WE CROSSED PATHS AGAIN WED. EVE. FOLLOW THAT SAME PATH TONIGHT AT 11 AND TAKE A LEFT WHERE THE BENCHES ARE. I'LL BE WAITING.--TRUE FS FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL OCTOBER 3-9 MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL ································································ FS MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FES­TIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FES· TIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FAll FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FES­TIVAL MULCULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAl FALL FESTIVAL FALL FES­TIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FES­TIVAL Need stud. ticket tor Miami. Call Tim at 272-7585.  Steve-You know me, I love to keep lite exciting,so I thought I'd add a new twist to our "system".Just another one of my crazy ideas! Love,Susan I don't know about you, but in my opinion, the new and "improved" North Dining Commons now employs some ol the best looking young women on the entire campusII I need a ride to PITISBURGH (or anywhere nearby) tor Oct Break--More lhan willing to share expenses-help drive. Call Michelle at X2152. THE ONLY TIME JIMMY JOHNSON DIDN'T RUN UP THE SCORE WAS 27 YEARS AGO WHEN HE TOOK THE SATI SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES EXTENDED ncKET SALES TODAY FOR FALL FORMAL 3-5 PM SOPHOMORES CLASS OF­FICE DON'T MISS ITIII SOPHOMORES Hey Caryn Foley, Why is it so hard to believe that you could have an admirer? It seems perfectly logi­cal to me. oe;.:·Fi·C3;\i:iii;\o."·G·FiE:;\r·P"oE:M"iii.vou ARE A VERY BRAVE YOUNG KNIGHT. THIS YOUNG GIRL WOULD BE HONORED TO MAKE YOUR AC­QUAINTANCE. '5198  and that It's about time you called her at 284-4314 to send your b-day wishes. P.S. Flowers, gifts and love poems can be sent to 143 H.CI SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. THE MULTl· SOCIAL EVENT SMc Fall Fest Reminders:.iF''ii·~~-i",;'ii; picnic w111 be canceled BUT She's Having A Baby will still be shown at 7&9 AND The Gardens will still take place 9·1. Get to The Gardens ea~y bt there is a 500 person llmit.(21 ID required) ................................SMC..SEN.IOR CLASS IS HAVING A BABY OCT 4&5, 9pm& 11 pm Carroll Aud $1 OCT 6,7&9pm same place. ...........................SUMMER..PROGRAMS FOR SMCfi!D LONDON (WITH TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND, & FRANCE) AND ROME (WITH TRAVEL IN FRANCE, GER., SWITZ, S N.ITALY). CLASSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY, ITAUAN AND JUSTICE. MEEnNG OCT.5, tpm IN MOREAU HALL (SMC), LrrTLE THEATER. FREE INFO & PIZZAII FOR MORE INFO CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 2114-4460 OR 272· 3726. Need student' ticket lor Mi~;.;;i'i'Wi.li··~~ $$$1 Call Marci at 2278. Are you selling Catholics VS. Convicts, Irish Republic, or NO Bud T-shirts. Call John at 2089 tor a sure sell. Hay Keratin: Three year~~ ...that's 36 months..that's  
••• HELP ••• I LOST A BROWN GLASS CASE AT THE PURDUE GAME (WITH MY GLASSES IN THEM). IF YOU HAVE SEEN THEM, OR EVEN THINK YOU MIGHT HAVE, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE. LET ME KNOW. CALL SEAN 1900  I NEEDS PENN STATE GA'S RITA2798 NEED 2or4GAslorSTANFORD MIAMI OR AIR FORCE x1999 NICK  Call Will at 283-2089 and make your BE$T OFFERI NEED 1GA OR 1 STUDENT TIX FOR AIR FORCE CALL CHUCK AT 2383  SENIORS: FROM THE HOME OFFICE IN SOUTH BEND, IN-TOP 10 REASONS TO JOIN A SENIOR REFLECTION GROUP: 10.1T'SYET ANOTHERWAYTO BLOW OFF STUDYING 9. YOU GET A DELICIOUS HOME COOKED MEAL  Wise YOUNG Anthro Mjr say: EAT RAISINS FOR REGULARITY. What will wise OLD anthro mjr say?l Find out tonite:  1096 days ... and ~ seems like only yesterday One Air Force student ticket tor sale. Call 284-4322  
................................................................  B. DINNER IS GUARANTEED NOT TO  MAD-DOG Ia 21 Ill  
FOR RENT  I HAVE TWO FIFTY-YARD LINE TICK­ETS FOR MIAMI AND TWO GA's EACH FOR All OTHER HOME GAMES. I DESPERATELY NEED THREE PENN STATE TICKETS, GA's OR STUDENT, AND WOULD LIKE TO TRADE THE  HELPI NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 277-1513 ................................................................ Need 2 GA'S tor AIR FORCE call 284­40431  BE HUNGARIAN NOODLE BAKE 7. ITS AN OPPORTUNITY TO TALK ABOUT YOURS YEARS AT NOTRE DAME 6. ITS A TIME TO TALK ABOUT WHAT'S ON YOUR MIND.  Come celebrate wlth a amoka on the deck, etc Have a good one, Medl Love Coi,Cole end your Imaginary friend. BOO "ADONIS" ANDREAS  M.T.··BG, OM, & SM--You and the band proved once again that you're the clas­siest act aroundll (The line certainly has  
ROOM FOR RENT, CAMPUS. FOR INFO  CLOSE TO CALL CHRIS  MIAMI TICKETS OR ANY OTHER'::-FOR YOUR PENN STATE. CALL ANNE, x2764.  PERSONALS  5. YOU CAN MEET NEW AND EXCIT­ING PEOPLE. 4. BRIDGET'S IS TOO CROWDED, ANYWAY.  CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR NEW RECORD  a tine pointl) Smed end Liz were here this weekend· ·again Ill This t1me Smed remembered to  
x1073  WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE  3. IT'S A CHANCE TO GET AWAY  135 SHOTS IN 135 MINUTES  take home his computer games. Now he  
HALL7 See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­ FROM CAMPUS AND UNDERCLAS­ will have something worthwhile to do with  
FURNISHED  2-BDRM.  HOME  &  MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 st Bpm In Stepan Canter for ONLY $4 to $1011 239-7442 & 284-4626  291-7153.  SMEN 2. THERE WILL BE SPECIAL GUEST APPEARANCES BY CHRISTIE  FROM THE CAVEMEN  his time instead of looking tor a jobl See you In two weeksII  A  '  
ROOMS NEAR CAMPUS. 272-6306.  .................................  N.D. CANDY  BRINKLEY  HAEUMPPIII  
;;;·;;;;;;·;;;;;~i~·;;;;;;;;·;"~l;~;·t;,"~i;~·r;,; football weekends? try the "Irish bed & breakfasr..Jocated 2 miles from n.d. for Info. ring 272-7738  DESPERATLY need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ 287-5451, KEN. 1 STUD MIAMI TIX FOR SALE -BEST OFFER BY 105 CALL 1370 -HEATHER  Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338.  AND KEVIN CONNOR 1. ITS A GROOVY KIND OF GROUP SIGN UP NOW THROUGH OCT. 7 AT THE esc  Better than the Olympics I More exciting than Irish football !II witnessed it II Three Frosh -One on SV, one on BCS, and one anchorman. Thanks for the memories Boo I  NO Trumpets dommate once againll Stanlord has no classll This weel<end is our annual trip to hell (more commonly known as Pennsylvania). Let's do " for Hoppy!lll  

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The SMC co-ed volleyball 4-on-4 intramural tournament team captains must attend a meeting on Tues­day at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge. This is the only time that entries will be accepted. Entry forms are available at all Saint Mary's dorms and at Haggar Center. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team beat Detroit 3-1 and tied Wisconsin 0-0 in weekend action. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team placed lOth in the 12-team Michigan State Invitational over the weekend. Ohio State won the event with a 54-hole total'of 903, followed by Northern Illinois with 958. The Irish scored 1,052. Kris Lazar led the Irish with a 255 (87-84-84), followed by Roberta Bryer with a 276, Heidi Hansan at 262 and Pandora Fecko, who finished at 265. -The Observer 
Officials are needed for Saint Mary's flag football and for the Saint Mary's 4-on-4 volleyball program. If interested, call Maureen Harty, assistant athletic director, at 284-5548. -The Observer 


Rice 
continued from page 16 
Reggie Ho and a goal-line stand by the Stanford defense to end the first quarter kept the Car­dinal in the game longer than it might have been. 
But Stanford quarterback Brian Johnson fumbled the snap on the first play after the goal-line stand, and Notre Dame's Ned Bolcar recovered the ball on the Cardinall-yard line. 
This time the Irish crossed the goal line, as Mark Green jumped over 16 seconds into the second period. Rice added the two-point conversion on a keeper and the rout was on. 
"When they stopped us at the goal line and got the ball back, and then fumbled on the very next play, that was big," Holtz said. "That got the team up. I'm not saying it turned the game around, because itdidn't. I thought we controlled the foot­ball game." 
The Irish amassed 332 rush­ing yards to Stanford's 59. Car­dinal running back John Volpe was the only Stanford player with positive net rushing yards, gaining 67 on 17 carries. 
Green gained 63 yards on 10 carries for the Irish. Sopho­more tailback Tony Brooks (12 carries, 59 yards) scored from five yards out, dragging Stan­ford defender Mike Newton with him most of the way, to make the score 21-0 in the second quarter. 
Rice's passing touchdown was a three-yard toss to fresh­man tight end Derek Brown on the first drive of the third quar­ter. Brown and split end Pat Eilers each caught two passes, while sophomore flanker Ricky Watters led the Irish with four receptions for 51 yards. 
Stanford's run-and-shoot of­fense managed 215 passing yards, 158 coming from back­up quarterback Jason Palumbis. Palumbis replaced Brian Johnson early in the third quarter and was 16-of-23 with a touchdown pass. 
But Notre Dame was again overpowering behind its young offensive line, which continues to erase any early-season doubts about its ability to replace all five starters from last year. 
"We had a great challenge coming into this game," junior guard Tim Grunhard said. "They have two all-American candidates in (Ray) Huckes­tein and (Andy) Papathanas­siou, and we took that as our challenge. But we like knock­ing people in the dirt. I guess they learned that the hard 

hours: mon.-fri. 12-8 basement of Iafortune 
c e IIa r 
way." 

Or you can start there. Earlier this year, both AdvertisingAge and Adweek recognized Leo Burnett as the Agency of the Year. And the results of the Cannes Film Festival only echoed their esteem. 
We are honored. And grateful. It's been a wonderful year, so far. But in this business, complacency is only an invitation to mediocrity. 
So, we've decided to leave the awards at home, where they belong. And come to the Notre Dame campus with our presentation on career opportunities in client service/marketing. Because we're always looking for bright young people to keep us moving onward. And upward. Presentations will be made at the University Club. All students, Tuesday, October4, IILEOBURNETIUSA 
7p.m. First year MBA's, Wednesday, October 5, 7p.m. IPJ · · · 

....----------------~--------~---------------------------­
Monday, October 3, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
--------~----------~-------------~-­
Season ends with Boggs, Gwynn regaining titles 
Associated Press 
Tony Gwynn of the San Diego Padres won his second con­secutive National League bat­ting title, this time with the lowest average in the league's 120-year history, and Wade Boggs of the Boston Red Sox led the American League in hit­ting for the fourth consecutive year. 
Gwynn, who didn't play Sun­day, batted .313, 57 points less than his league-leading batting average last year. Larry Doyle of the New York Giants had the previous lowest average for an NL champion, batting .320 in 1915. 
"There are so many domi­nant pitchers this year," Gwynn said. "There is a whole list of pitchers who have dominated. Last year they said pitching was down, but it's not this year." 
Boggs, who also did not play Sunday, batted .366 and be­came the first AL player to win four consecutive batting titles since Rod Carew of Minnesota from 1972 through 1975. The only AL player with more con­secutive batting titles was Ty Cobb, who won nine straight from 1907 through 1915. 
"It's my fourth in a row. You want to be the best and that's the way to measure it, so it's very gratifying," Boggs said. 
Boggs had 214 hits, becoming the first player this century to get 200 hits in six consecutive seasons. 
A year after offense reached record levels, pitching dominated. There were 3,180 
home  runs,  a  28.7  percent  
decrease  from  last  year's  
record of 4,458.  

There were just five .300 hit­ters in the NL, the fewest since 1968. The AL average dropped from .261 to .259. The NL average fell from .265 to .248. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eaat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  100  60  .625  
Pinsburgh  85  75  .531  15  
Montreal  81  81  .600  20  
Chicago  n  85  .475  24  
St. Louis  76  86  .469  25  
Philadelphia  65  96  .404  35.5  
Weal  
Los Angeles  94  67  .584  
Cincinnati  87  74  .540  7  
San Diego  83  78  .516  11  
San Francisco  83  79  .512  11.5  
Houston  82  80  .506  12.5  
Atlanta  54 106  .338  39.5  
Sunday's Reaulla  

Montreal 3, Philadelphia 1 
New York 7, St. Louis 5 
Cincinnati 1, Atlanta 0 
Chicago 8, Pittsburgh 4 
San Diego 5, Houston 1 
San Francisco 1, Los A eles 0 
While batters struggled, pitchers flourished. There were six 20-game winners, up from two last year. The AL earned-run average dropped from 4.46 to 3.97, the NL from 4.08 to 3.45. 
Darryl Strawberry of the 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON --Hal Lanier was fired as manager of the Astros Sunday after a disappointing season that ended with Houston losing 13 of its final17 games. 
Lanier, 46, said he was told about an hour before the game, a 5-1 loss to the San Diego Padres. Fired along with Lanier were third-base coach Denis Menke, bullpen coach Mark Hill and hitting instruc­tor Gene Clines. 
AT SAINT MARY•s SNACK BAR 

REE DELIVERY on Saint Mary•s campus 
PIZZA WEEK 
October 2nd -7th 

October 2nd -Two dollars ott any order between 7 and 1 0 pm. October 3rd -One FREE topping. October 4th -Two liters FREE Coke with any pizza purchase October 5th -Accepting any area pizza coupon October 6th -Get a coupon for a FREE pizza when you order one 
between 7 and 1 0 pm. October 7th -Order a pizza and get a 2nd for HALF price. 
Pizza avaUable nightly from 6 -11 pm. 
284·5537 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eaat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  89  73  .549  
Oetroit  88  74  .543  1  
Milwaukee  87  75  .537  2  
Toronto  87  75  .537  2  
New York  85  76  .528  3.5  
Cleveland  78  84  .461  11  
Baltimore  54 107  .335  34.5  
Weal  
Oakland  104  58  .642  
Minnesota  91  71  .562  13  
Kansas City  84  n  .522  19.5  
California  75  87  .463  29  
Chicago  71  90  .441  32.5  
Texas  70  91  .435  33.5  
Seanle  68  93  .422  35.5  
Sunday•a Reaulta  

Cleveland 6, Boston 5 Detroit 4, New York 3, 1 1 innings Toronto 9, Baltimore 3 Minnesota 3, California 2 Chicago 5, Kansas City 1 Oakland 4, Milwaukee 0 Texas 7, Seanle 2 
New York Mets led the NL with 39 homers. Jose Canseco of the Oakland Athletics led the AL with 42 and also had 40 stolen bases, becoming the first 40-40 player in major league history. 
Kirby Puckett of the Min­nesota Twins finished second to 
Astros fire Lanier after 4-13 finish 
in baseball," Astros owner John McMullen said in a state­ment distributed in the press box at the start of the ninth in­ning. "It is the culmination of all the possible pressure on an individual. Hal Lanier has been a first-class citizen and done many positive things for the or­ganization. We feel at this time, however, it is best to wipe the slate clean and start over again." 
"I've had three great years with this club but this is not a happy time for anyone," 
-------Lanier said. "However, I don't 
hold any bitterness toward anyone. Dr. McMullen had a job to do. He and I have been friends and we'll continue to be friends. I think I'm the best competitor in this game. John McMullen just felt there needed to be a change. 
"He has the right to be dis­appointed. He was committed that we wanted to have a pen­nant winner. We were still in the race in September but I Boggs with a .356 average, the highest by a right-handed bat­ter in the AL since Joe DiMag­gio hit .357 in 1941 for the New York Yankees. Puckett's 234 hits were the most by a right­handed hitter in the AL since Al Simmons of the Philadelphia Athletics has 253 in 1925 and the most for a right-hander in either league since Ducky Med­wick of the Cardinals had 237 in 1937. 
The Twins drew 3,030,672, be­coming the first AL club to top 3 million and the fourth major league team to do so. On the field, the Twins made just 84 errors, the fewest ever for a major-league team. The previ­ous record of 95 was set by Bal­timore in 1964 and tied by Cincinnati in 1977 and Bal­timore in 1980. 
The Boston Red Sox commit­ted just 93 errors this season. And of course there was a record for balks. 
don't think any manager could have come in here and won the way we were scoring runs." 
"I can't see anything ever being tougher than this," gen­eral manager Bill Wood said. "However, the manager is the chief on the field. He sets the tone and direction of the team and we just didn; t get it done this year. We thought we had overcome some of our prob­lems but they seemed to bubble up to the surface even more than before." · 
Lanier's fiery, aggressive style of baseball seemed to re­charge the Astros in 1986. Lanier was named manager Nov. 5, 1985, promising the same wide-open base running attack he learned as a third­base coach under Whitey Her­zog in St. Louis. 
The Astros won the West Division by 10 games but lost to the New York Mets in a six­game playoff, dropping the final game in 16 innings. 

Rush University 
College of Nursing 
Presents 

A Continuum in Professional Education 
• 
Doctor of Nursing Science 

• 
Doctor of Nursing 

• 
Master of Science 

• 
Bachelor of Science 


¢ GRADUATE ENTRY LEVEL 
A new program for students w1th a bachelor's degree 1n a f1eld other than nurs1ng who w1sh to enter nurs1ng Our Integrated program pre­pares students for profess1onal ltcensure and a graduate clm1cal spec1alty. (MS. NO or DNSc) 
DOCTOR OF NURSING 
The program of study leadmg to thts degree assures preparatton 
tn baste nursmg (pre-licensure) and advanced cltmcal spec1altza110n 
It IS best understood as analogous to other profess1onal doctoral 
degrees like the Doctor of Junsprudence (J D). Doctor of Pharmacy 
(Pharm 0 ). and the Doctor of Med1c1ne (M 0) 
Rush Un1vers1ty. the academtc component of Rush-Presbytenan-St Lu~e·s Med1cal Center 1s a leader tn health care
---_, ----------­
Rush Umverslly 119 Schweppe-Sprague Hall 1743 W Hamson Street -Ch1cagc. IL 60612 312-942-5099 
Name 

Address _________Phone Clty ______Stale ._____z,p ____ 
01 

---. --~~---------·-----,-----~----­
answered goals to win the 
match handily, 4-2. 
Sophomore Michelle Ric­
hardsstartedoffthescoringfor 

Soccer 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame with a high lob 

Dame's leading scorer. from the top of the penalty box 
Marked closely by Terese Mar­at 80:12. 
tinov, Zilvitis was unable to Zilvitis got her chance at 
execute on her first half scoring 67:30 when off a pass from 
attempts. sophomore Bernie Holland she 
"We knew Saint Mary's was was able to draw the Belles' 

a good team," said Zilvitis. keeper out of the box and slip 
"We were looking for a tough 
match." th~~~llc~~~~~~t~~~oo~~=n~:\n Three minutes into the the second half," said Zilvitis. second half the Belles made it "By putting in a center striker 2-0, when a hard Kathy Revane we left the sideline open and shot ricocheted off the left post could switch the ball more. and into the lower right corner, That way Mimi (Suba) could beating Irish keeper Kelly get in the crosses and we could 
McCrystal. just put it in." 
A perfect header by Notre 

The field lights came on Dame senior Kathleen Bir­during the second half, mingham at 74:00 put the Irish however, and so did the Irish. ahead for the first ti~e, 
3-2. 

Not ready to give up, they Suba recorded the assist. struck back with four un-
Junior Joy Sisolak finished 

RUSh SOIJerl•ng 
continued from page 16 
"For the most part, our line AdviCe .·· ~ 

~~E~~~1h~~:E~~~~E ~i7e~)
why we controlled the game _..-:: . and were able to run and pass :~~;...­thewaywedid. That's why we ..,.. 
are becoming a complete of­
fense." 
Johnson gives three reasons why the running game has been so productive in the first four games of the season. 
"Number one, Coach (Jim) Strong does a great job putting us all together and getting us to do the right thing," Johnson said. 
"Second, we all have a desire to play well, to get the job done. 
out the scoring with 16:30 left, hope to avoid going through the and they played their 
off another Suba assist. middle, because too many turn-strengths." 
"We were so psyched at overs occur there." "We got up early in the 
halftime," said Suba. "We've "Notre Dame showed a lot of game, but you have to play the 
been working on the crosses, courage," said Saint Mary's full90 minutes," continued Van 
and as soon as we got our head coach Tom Van Meter. Meter. "We had some very nice 
timing down wedid allright." "Most of the teams we've counterattacks in the last 10 
Irish assistant coach Neil played so far would give up if minutes. We're going to get bet-
Schmidt explained the strat-they were down 2-0. They ter. This is a nice move from 
egy. played their game plan, and where we were last year." 
"Our passing attack is basi-they stuck with it. They ex-The two teams meet again on 
cally using the touchlines. We ecuted on the simple things, October 13, at Saint Mary's. 
r.)!M(~~••-~. .• •IS th~e~la"1,
:·:~.illl.1111ri!t*l(~>•srrx•'cxaT<~0d~a~'~y St 
..

I '" • • • • 
' .":· day to reg••ster
I 
: •·' 


6 
Registration Packets Available: · 
-· at NO: -Center for Social Concerns ~ 
~ '' -Campus Ministry ~ 1 Badin Hall and Library I ~~ -Hall Representatives ~-· 
I I 
; at SMC: -Office of Justice Education ~ '·'·~-~ -~=~;~: ~i~~;lrye~a150 Regina ~­
g -Hall Representatives ' 
Be one ol over 300 ND/SMC 
I 

students who will participate ~ In Urban Plunge this yearl & ,~-~~<>.wi<•~~~~~..~~~ 
''1 don't want 
alot of hype.Ijust want something I can count on.IJIJ 
And third, we play together and know we are part of a team. We are oriented within the team to be able to do well as a team." 
Maybe the best test of the running game is yet to come. The Pitt Panthers held the Irish rushing offense to 103 yards 

Some long distance
(less than one-half this year's 
companies promise you

average of 281 yards per game) 
the moon, but what you

last season at Pittsburgh. really want is dependable,
"Pitt is a talented team," 
high-quality service. That's

Holtz said. "Defensively, they're outstanding. They've 
just what you'll get when always played exceptionally 
you choose AT&T Long well and totally together 
Distance Service, at acost 

against us, and they've 
that's a lot less than you

whipped us. That's something 
think You can expect low

that really concerns us. To tell 
long distance rates, 24-hour

the truth, I don't know how 
operator assistance, clear

good we are." 
connections and immediate

Saturday's Game Stanford 0 7 7 0 14 
credit for wrong numbers. 

Notre Dame 6 22 7 7 42 Scorfng 
And the assurance that 

NO-Rice 30 yd run (kick failed) NO-M. Green 1-yard run (Rice run) 
virtually all of your calls will 

NO-Brooks 5-yard run (Ho kick) 
go through the first time.

S· B. Johnson 1-yard run (Hopkins kick) NO-A. Johnson 1-yard run (Ho kick) 
That's the genius of the 

NO· Brown 3-yard pass from Rice (Ho kick) S· H. Green 27-yard passs from Palumbis 
AT&T Worldwide Intelligent 

(Hopkins kick) 
Network

NO-Rice 6-yard run (Ho kick) S ND 
. When it's time to 

First downs 16 27 Rushing attempts 23 61 
choose, forget the gimmicks

Net Yards Rushing 59 332 Net Yards Passing 215 135 
and make the intelligent 

Passes comp-altempted 23-41 12·15 
choice-AT&T.

Had intercepted 1 0 Total Net Yards 274 467 
Ifyoutllike to know 

Fumbles-los\ 2·1 0-0 Penalties-yards 6-80 4-45 
more about our products or 

Punts-average 4-24.5 1-41 .0 
services, like International
lndfvfdual Llllld8ra RUSHING-Stanford: Volpe 17·67; Young 2·{·1); 
Calling and the AT&T Card,

Johnson 4·(·7). Notre Dame: Rice 14-107; Green 1o-63; Brooks 
call us at 1800 222-0300. 

12-59; Johnson 14-58; Culver 2·13; Setzer 2-11; 
K. Graham 2-9; P. Graham 1-9; Watters 2-3; Eilers 1-0; Belles 1-0. PASSING· Stanford: Palumbis 16-23-0, 158; Johnson 7·18·1, 57. Notre Dame: Rice 11·14-0, 129; K. Graham 1-1-(),6. 
RECEfVfNG-Stanford: Young 7-59; Pickney 4-40; .Price 5-36; Green 2-36; Walsh 2·16; Belson 2·21; Volpe 1-7. 
Notre Dame: Walters 4·51; Eilers 2-26; Brown 2-10; Alaniz 1-26; Johnson 1-9; Green 1-7; 


Brooks 1-6. 
Attendance· 59,075 
ATs.T 
The right choice. 



Monday, October 3, 1988 
The Observer 

Men upset Providence at National Catholic meet 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The men's cross country team has done it again, starting off as the underdog and finish­ing as the victor, this time at the 9th Annual National Catho­lic meet. 
Tl)e meet, held on Friday at a specially desisned five-mile circuit at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, saw the Irish emerge victorious, accumulat­ing a meet-low 46 points. 
Second place finisher Loyola (Ill.) collected 75 points, and Providence finished at a dis­tant third with 96. 
Was this a big upset? "I think it is," said Head Co­ach Joe Piane, who is also the 
director of the meet. "I didn't expect that much of a margin between ourselves and Provi­dence. Providence has an out­standing team, but our runners did an excellent job." 
Providence entered the race as the favorite, with Loyola a close second. However, the Irish runners proved to be too much for them, taking three of the top ten spots and four of the top eleven. 
Included in those top-ten finishes were senior captain Dan Garrett and senior Ron Markezich, who tied for first place, uncontested, with times of 24:39. 
Junior Tom O'Rourke came through in sixth place with a strong time of 25: 13, and junior Mike O'Connor finished in 11th at za:Ju. 
Freshman Mike Drake had an impressive meet, finishing the race in 26:08, which was good enough for 26th place. 
Sophomore Matt Ronzone finished 32nd with a time of 26:15, and classmate Ryan Cahill finished 40th at 26:32, but was slightly bothered with an injury. 
The ease with which the Irish won came as a surprise to al­most everybody, especially considering their times were not the greatest. 
"Dan (Garrett) and I were suprised that no one really challenged us that hard," said Markezich. "Our plan was to pick up the pace after about 2 1-2 miles, but no one was there. We didn't have to pick up our speed at all." 

"We had the capability of finishing four in the top seven,'' said Piane. "I know it sounds arrogant, but I don't mean to be. We have a really good club." 
Piane can only hope that their times can be much better, considering that the Notre Dame Invitational takes place this Friday, and they will need better times than they had last Friday to win. 
The Irish will also have to avoid any more injuries, con­sidering that senior Rick Mul­vey and sophomore Pat Kearns are out of action. Mulvey's sit­uation continues to improve, 
but he most likely will not be 
able to run at the Notre Dame 
Invitational. 
Michigan and East Tennes­see in particular will make things difficult on the Irish to repeat their finishes from the National Catholic. 
"We were up for it (the Na­tional Catholic), but we really didn't run that well," said Gar­rett. "If we don't get our act together, we're going to get killed at the Notre Dame Invi­tational.'' 
"We're pleased we won, but we know we have to improve to win on Friday," said O'rourke. "We have to run more as a team, with less of a gap in between our first and fifth man." 

Irish women battle injuries to take sixth place at Catholics 

SWEETSPOT RAQUET SHOP 
277-9011 

Inside Turners Soccer 
ffiD® illffi®[QM{f ~g ((;+ 

av~ Same day stringing ~~~~ ~O.b Certified by USRSA ~0 
M-F 9-6, Sat 9-1 <l 


STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS------...,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 Ma~~ :
L-------------------1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
1 Reg. $8 fanily ~ 1 r--------------~----1
:ssOFF ANY PERM : 
I ~~I 
~------------------~ 
finish with a time of 18:44 led especially because she had fifth runner was sixty-first. 
the way for the Irish, and she been bothered by a sore foot "If Ledrick had raced we 
was followed by freshman during practice this past week. would have moved up 40 
Lucy Nusrala, who took Notre Dame women's coach places," said Connelly. "That 
twelfth. Both runners had Tim Connelly was impressed means we would have come in 
strong races against a group of with Filar. third." 
over 120 women. "I hadn't seen her compete Both the coach and the run­
"I'm pleased," said Rice. "I so well until this race," he said. ners cited a stronger field as 
didn't feel like I was in as good "She did a good job." making the race more compet­
of shape as last year, but I think The problem for Notre Dame itive than last year. The Col­
I did better." has been the lack of a fifth run-lege of St. Thomas from Min­
The surprise for the Irish was ner. Sophomore Jenny Ledrick nesota, which came in third, is 
the performance of junior is still out, and had she run she the Division III champion, and 
Linda Filar, who crossed the probably would have finished runners from DePaul Univer­
finish line in fifteenth place around twentieth, which was sity took both first and second 
with a time of 19:19. Filar was her place last year in this same en route to a fourth-place 
not expected to finish so high, meet. As it was, Notre Dame's finish, followed by Dayton. 
Despite tougher teams, 
however, the Irish still im­

IP----------------~
OPENING SOON I proved from last year when 
I

I ®®ffi®ill 9~ 
I South Bend's Newest Restaurant
I

I Now accepting applications for: cooks,I busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid vacations, 0/otips
I 

Part time 8-20 hours I Full time 40 hours or more 
I

I Apply from 1-7, Monday-Friday 
1 Very close to campus I1 phone 277-7678 
I S.R.23 

I f g-
I ::J 2046 S.R.23 -• ~ 
I 
they finished seventh.
I "We ran really well consid­ering the teams we faced," said senior Terry Kibelstis, who
I 
finished 36th despite being hampered by an injury. "II think the field was stronger this 
year."I Coach Connelly said he isI happy with a better competi­
tive effort than what he saw in
I 
the team's opening loss toI Georgetown three weeks ago. "I wanted to improve and we
I 
did," he said. "We have theI makings of a good team. I'd say 
I was satisfied with the effort,I but I'm not really content."I The next meet for the Irish 
I 
will be the Notre Dame Invita­tional this Friday. Connelly
I
says if the team is healthy he expects to be in the top four or 
five in the same level of com­petition as the National Cat­I holics. 
I
I 
The 
I 
Observer 

~----------------~ 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team turned in some good individual efforts as they captured sixth place among 19 teams at the National Catholic Championships on Friday. 
Providence College was first overall with 62 points, 26 points less than the second team, Bos­ton College. Notre Dame to­taled 133 points. 
Theresa Rice's ninth place 
MasterCuts 

family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 


Bears deal Bills first loss 
Associated Press 
Jim McMahon and Dennis 
Gentry provided the offensive 
thrust while Chicago's 
defense shut down Buffalo, 
handing the Bills a 24-3 loss 
on Sunday, their first of the 
NFL season. 
McMahon completed 20 of 
27 passes for 260 yards and 
two touchdowns, and Gentry 
raced 58 yards, the longest 
run of his career, on a reverse 
for another Bears score. 
"Give all the credit to Jim 
McMahon," Chicago coach 
Mike Ditka said. "He took a 
lot of rips and shots. We had 
to attack and Jim made things 
happen." 
Giants 24, Redskins 23 
Odessa Turner caught eight passes for 103 . yards and a touchdown and the New York Giants held off a late rally by Washington to edge the Redskins. Washington, 2-3, missed a chance to take the lead when rookie kicker Chip Lohmiller missed a 36-yard field goal attempt with 2:54 left. 

USC beats Washington; Miami wallops Mizzou 55-0 
Associated Press 
"Good teams have to be able to win on the road," says UCLA coach Terry Donahue. And seven members of the Associ­ated Press Top Twenty, led by second-ranked UCLA and No. 3 Southern California, did just that. 
In Seattle, a place they hadn't won in their last three visits, the UCLA bruins needed a 48-yard pass play from Troy Aikman to Reggie Moore with 
1:28 left to beat No. 16 Wash­ington 24-17. 
Southern Cal had an easier time in Tucson. Rodney Peete threw three touchdown passes to Erik Affholter, leading the Trojans to a 38-15 victory over Arizona. 
UCLA and Southern Cal are 4-0, as is No. 20 Oregon, a 34-13 winner at San Diego State. However, Saturday's game was the Bruins' first Pac-10 contest while USC and Oregon are 2-0. 
Meanwhile, No. 1-ranked Miami pounded Missouri 55-0, fourth-ranked Auburn ham­mered North Carolina 47-21 and No. 5 Notre Dame trounced Stanford 42-14. 
Miami 55, Missouri 0 
Steve Walsh threw four 
touchdown passes and backup 
Craig Erickson added two 
more as Miami rolled to its 36th 
consecutive regular-season 
victory. 
Walsh threw scoring passes 
of 29 yards to Rob Chudzinski, 
9 to Dale Dawkins and 44 to 
Randal Hill as the Hurricanes 
opened a 21-0 first-quarter lead 
and led 38-0 at halftime as 
Miami outgained Missouri 349 
yards to 29 in the first 30 
minutes. 
Auburn 47, N. Carolina 21 
Auburn rart for six touch­downs, two by freshman Henry Love and two more on reverses by wide receivers Alexander Wright and Freddy Weygand. The Tigers piled up 511 yards and led 33-0 before North Carolina scored. 
The Giants, 3-2, held a 24-9 lead in the third quarter, but allowed Washington to pull within a point on two touch­down passes from Mark Rypien to Ricky Sanders. The comeback was aided by a defense that sacked Phil Simms five times, including four by Dexter Manley. 
Buccaneers 27, Packers 24 
Donald Igwebuike's 44-yard field goal with 12 seconds left gave Tampa Bay a victory over Green Bay for the second time this season. 
The Buccaneers, 2-3, also edged Green Bay 13-10 three weeks ago when Igwebuike kicked a 28-yard field goal with three seconds left. 
Eagles 32, Oilers 23 
Randall Cunningham passed for two touchdowns and ran 33 yards for another score to rally Philadelphia from a 16-point first-quarter deficit. Cunningham com­pleted 24 of 38 passes for 289 
Florida St. 48, Tulane 28 
Sammie Smith, stymied much of the season, ran for 213 yards and two touchdowns. Florida State rolled up 434 yards rushing and Smith had 156 in the first half, including touchdown runs of 6 and 8 yards. Jerome Mcintosh scored three Tulane touchdowns on passes from Terrence Jones, who set a school career record of 40 scoring passes. However, Jones also was intercepted four times, one of which Deion Sanders returned 34 yards for the game's first touchdown. 
Nebraska 48, UNL V 6 
Nebraska built a 20-0 halftime lead on the first of Ken Clark' three short touchdown runs, Cartier Walker's 34-yard run with a blocked punt and Terry Rodgers' 20-yard run. The Cornhuskers used 16 ball-

carriers in gaining 444 yards on ..................._.............._.....................................~~~~~· 
the ground. ,. 


0.8.-Soviet Relations: Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with . Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 1 0 p.m. WHERE: JACC TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff 
$6-adults 

Tickets should be purchased in advance. Now On Sale M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC Also will be sold in the dining halls 
yards, while the Eagles' defense held Houston's usually explosive offense to 206 yards--55 running and 156 passing. 
Patriots 21, Colts 17 
Doug Flutie came off the bench to spark a 14-point fourth quarter, including a 13­yard run with 23 seconds to play to lead New England over Indianapolis. 
Flu tie scored when he faked a handoff, rolled left and out­raced the Colt defenders into the end zone. 
Cardinals 41, Rams 27 
Neil Lomax threw for 342 yards and two touchdowns as Phoenix handed the Los An­geles Rams their first loss. The victory was the first for the Cardinals over the Rams since 1976. 
Lomax, bouncing back from an arthritic left hip that slowed him last week, com­pleted 28 of 43 passes, includ­ing first-half touchdown throws of 33 yards to Roy Green and eight yards to Jay Novacek. 

Open stage. Open mike. 
Come, perform, enjoy. Anything goes! 
7-9P.M. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
percentage on 41 assists and ex­
ecuting well-timed and 
cleverly placed sets that al­
lowed her hitters to find the 
holes in the Bronco defense. 
And the Irish hitters took full 
advantage of the sets, as Ben­
nett recorded an astounding 
.714 hitting percentage on 14 
kills, with Waller following 
close behind with a .682 
percentage on 16 kills. 
The team as a whole had an 
impressive .469 hitting 
percentage for the match and matched their strong offensive performance with defensive hustle as well. 
Bennett tallied nine total blocks and senior Maureen Shea added seven as the Irish outblocked the Broncos 13-6 for the match and Shewman and Bennett picked up 14 and 13 digs, respectively. 
"Art's got a great team," said Bronco head coach Rob Buck. "They've got at least 10­12 strong, really good athletes and they've definitely im­proved from last year. They took advantage of our errors and just played with more con­fidence." 
The Irish had every reason to be confident, coming off of 
October 9 
Friday's trouncing of Butler. 
It took Notre Dame only 44 
minutes to completely annihi­
late Butler in three games, 15-2, 
15-2 and 15-8, as the Bulldogs 
could only manage a paltry .028 
hitting percentage for the 
match. 
Irish dominated game one, 
establishing a 10-1 lead behind 
a two-man army of Bennett and 
Waller, before the Bulldogs 
realized what hit them. 
And just about every Irish 
player did hit the Bulldogs, as 
the team recorded a .600 hitting 
average for the game with only 
one error. 
Game two gave Butler much 
of the same, as Shea, Shew­
man, Waller and Bennett as­
sualted the Butler defense, 
which could only manage two 
team blocks for the entire 
game, with an errorless .733 
team hitting percentage. 
The entire Notre Dame roster saw action before the end of game three after Waller and Bennett left the game with 10 and six kills, respectively be­hind hitting percentages of .692 and .833. 
Junior Kathy Cunningham and sophomores Rachel Hall and Jai Bruno all recorded im­pressive .667 hitting percent­ages for the match and Shea followed close behind with .625. 

Monday, October 3, 1988 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
Noon MEC, ISO, and the Philippino Club presents 'Cul­ture on the Quad' at the fieldhouse mall. 
4:30 p.m. MEC presents Irish folk songs on the fieldhouse mall as part of their ethnic entertainment series. 
6:30 p.m. SMC Religious Studies Video "The Diary of a Country Priest," Carroll Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Ohayo," directed by Yasujiro Ozu, Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Spies," directed by Fritz Lang, Annenberg Auditorium. 
,DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Romano Sweet & Sour Pork Sausage Pepper Grinder Broccoli Cheese Casserole 
Saint Mary's 
Chili Nachos Veal Patty Swiss Cheese Croquettes Deli Bar 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
..  
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD  
ACROSS I Matures 5 State, in Soissons 9 Separated I4 Simone's  25 Phoenix neighbor 28 Incendiary substance 33 Jai­36 Perpetually  51 Kind of light used ina theater 56 Dress-reform feminist 60 Campus fabric 62 Cambio coin  
husband 15 In the buff 16 More recent 17 Latin I word IS Busy as­I9 Spiny shrub, also called furze  38 S.African plant 39 Temperance advocate 42 Take-stride 43 Yorkshire river  63 Key letter 64 TYPe of acid 65 Bntain's Anthony66 "-Plentyo' Nuttin'" 67 Dey or czar 68 Carnelian's kin  
20 Pioneer  44 Uncanny  69 One-billionth:  
suffragist 45 Basque 23 A solid alcohol headgear  Comb. form  
24 Williams's 47 Tour "Leave-to Heaven" 49 N.B.A. figure  DOWN  
I Accumulate  
2 Entire range  
3 Undo  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  4 Shankar's  
instrument  
5 Make possible  
6 Saxhorn  
7 Capital of South Yemen 8 Bicuspids, e.g. 9 Cat, goat or rabbit IO Peasant II Askew I2 -adjudicataI3 Due's follower 2I Customary; conventional  26 Blackfin snapper 27 Ward off 29 "Ride a­Horse": Macinnes 30 Winged 31 South Seas parrot 32 What the dr. ordered  35 Jackson or Jeffreys 37 Pitcher 39 Small lie 40 Studio prop 41 Thin; fine: Comb. form 46 Quake 48 Ellis or Long 50 Manicures  54 "Somebody -debay": S. Foster 55 Clio sidekick 56 Indigo source 57 Golconda 58 Met staple 59 Uncle Remus's­Rabbit  
22 Matisse or  33 Uffizi treasure  52 -Hood  60 Patriotic org.  
Petain  34 Den  53 Last of a series  61 Ostrich's kin  
Berke Breathed  The Far Side  Gary Larson  







r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Sports
Monday, October 3, 1988 page 16 
Rice leads ND over Stanford 
QB runs, passes Irish over the Cardinal 42-14 
By MARTY STRASEN passes, including four in last ford defense keyed on Notre Sports Editor week's 52-7 Irish triumph over Dame's ground game, includ­Purdue and six more to start ing the option attack Rice has 
Tony Rice threw the football Saturday's contest. run brilliantly this year, the like he was throwing darts Sat­Notre Dame, ranked fifth in Irish receivers found plenty of 
urday. the nation, boosted its record room in which to get open. And he ran like somebody to 4-0 on the season. With great protection from was throwing darts at him. Rice attributed much of his the Notre Dame offensive line, 
Everyone knew the Irish success against the Cardinal to Rice made it look easy.quarterback could run like he a recently-acquired interest in "Their quarterback, Rice,did in Notre Dame's 42-14 tri­throwing darts, inspired Notre did an excellent job running the umph over Stanford at Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. option and throwing the ball," Dame Stadium. Rice gained "Me and Coach Holtz were Cardinal head coach Jack El­
107 yards on 14 carries and talking, and he suggested I get way said. "(Rice's passing)scored two touchdowns to some darts and just throw in gives them another dimension prove it. my room," Rice said. "It to their offense. He was throw­
But the doubters of Rice's seemed like it just carried on. ing with real accuracy."passing ability got a glimpse of Every night I just threw darts, Rice put the Irish ahead 6-0 what the junior can do through and in practice I could see I on a 30-yard touchdown run the air, as Rice completed 11 was improving a bit. early in the first quarter, but 

of 14 passes for 129 yards and "I'm going to keep throwing then it looked as though the mo­one touchdown without throw­them. I think the darts really mentum was swinging Stan­ing an interception. He tied a helped out tonight." ford's way. A missed 21-yardNotre Dame single-season Rice's ability to run the ball field goal by Irish kicker The Observer I Trey Raymond record, held by many players, did not hurt the Irish passing Tony Rice led the Irish offensive attack with 236 total yards Saturday by completing 10 consecutive game, either. When the Stan-see RICE, page 10 In Notre Dame's 42-14 win over the Stanford Cardinal. Marty Strasen 
reviews the game at left. 
Rush thrives as Johnson returns 
By THERESA KELLY backfield--58 yards on 14 at­Assistant Sports Editor tempts. Johnson's one touch­down came with 1:36 left in the 
Last week, the Irish rushing first half, as he plowed over left offense gained 321 yards on the tackle and extended the Irish Purdue Boilermakers, averag­lead to 27-7. ing 5.6 yards per carry, making "It was fun to get back and 13 first downs and scoring three play," Johnson said. "It's not touchdowns. fun sitting, and that is a moti­
But something was missing. vation to work hard and get 
Anthony Johnson returned at back in the game." fullback for the Irish Saturday Johnson's return had Brooks against Stanford, sending Tony sharing the tailback chores Brooks back to tailback. The with Mark Green. Quarterback result? Tony Rice led the running 
Against a Cardinal defense game with a career-high 107 tougher than that of the Boiler­yards, but the inside work was makers, the running game balanced between Green, netted 332 yards, averaging 5.4 Brooks and Johnson. yards per carry, making 16 Green carried 10 times for 63 first downs and scoring five yards and one touchdown. touchdowns. "Anthony Johnson played 
Johnson has been out of the well," Irish head coach Lou Notre Dame lineup with an Holtz said, "They seem to com­ankle sprain suffered against plement each other out there. Michigan State Sept. 17. We tried to control the football Brooks' total of 110 yards and do what we had to do." 
By COLLEEN The first half was character­sweeper. At 29:25, however, the against Purdue was reduced to As always, some credit for 
HENNESSEY ized by a frustrated attack on Saint Mary's offense broke a still-respectable 59 against the 332 yards rushing goes to Sports Writer both sides, while tough through when Tricia Troester's Stanford, but he didn't seem to the offensive line, although it 
Notre Dame's Moose Krause marking and ball control kept long high cross grabbed the up­mind sharing the wealth. took the Irish four tries and one Stadium saw the birth of a the play stagnated in the mid­per left corner of the Irish goal, "It helped the offense to have Stanford fumble to move the rivalry last Friday night, as the field. leaving it 1-0 at the half. him back," Brooks said of ball six inches and score the Irish women's soccer team Each team effectively shut Troester has been averaging Johnson. "It helps us do what second touchdown of the game. took on Saint Mary's in the first down the opponent's offense, about a goal a game this season we want to do, which is have "We played as a team," varsity soccer match between but neither could generate a for Saint Mary's. two experienced backs fresh all Holtz said. "When we didn't get the two schools. counterattack of its own. The The Saint Mary's defense did the time, and just keep running the ball in down there on the 
Notre Dame came out ahead Irish defense was saved con­an excellent job at shutting out our game." goal line, the defense came in an even match that was tinually by the tenacious play freshman Susie Zilvitis, Notre Johnson's numbers were back and we got the chance." closer than the 4-2 final score of junior K.T. Sullivan, making right on par with those of the would indicate. an unusual appearance as see SOCCER, page 12 rest of the Notre Dame see RUSH, page 12 
Volleyball team abuses Broncos, beats Butler 
By MOLLY MAHONEY with an unstoppable offensive 

its composure and behind back­its game going. Waller, with tallied points from that pointSports Writer attack. to-hack blocks by seniors Mary the help of Bennett and sopho­on to take control of the· game 
Notre Dame controlled the Kay Waller and Whitney Shew­more Colleen Wagner, dis­and the match.The Notre Dame women's tempo of Saturday's match man and a flurry of kills from mantled the Bronco defense "We played the best we'vevolleyball team used and against a perennially strong Waller and senior Zanette Ben­with a barrage of kills until played all year," said Irish
abused visiting Butler and 

Western Michigan team and nett, ran the score up to 14-8 Wagner answered Bremner head coach Art Lambert.
Western Michigan this won in three games, 15-8, 15-6, before · Bremner ended the with a service ace of her own "We're getting ourselves aweekend in quick, three-game 15-8 to record its first-ever win match with a service ace. to win the game. 
little identity as we get morematches to establish a four­against the Broncos. 

In game two, the Irish came Game three was not as easy established. Our knowledge ofmatch winning streak at home. The Irish ran up a 7-2lead in out strong again behind the for the Irish. 
the game is showing and we're The Irish, led by the brilliant 

the first game, taking advan­powerful hitting of Waller and The Broncos made the Irish 
using our heads more, which is 

setting of freshman Julie Brem­tage of four straight service er­jumped out to a 7-0 lead. work for each point as the two a good thing."ner and her teammates' rors by the Broncos, before Western Michigan, without teams exchanged side outs and Bremner had an outstanding
phenomenal hitting, used their 

Western Michigan rallied to its star middle blocker, Gail points until they reached a 7-7 match, recording a .519 assist
talent to exploit the opponents' come with a point at 8-7. Church, due to a shoulder dis­tie.

weaknesses and abused them But Notre Dame maintained location, could never quite get But Notre Dame steadily see IRISH, page 14 





