
Rainy Weekend?
etc: History of the dome 
Partlysunnyandwarmtoday. -High in the middle 80s. Mostly 

IVIEWPOINT: Abortion and Christian ethics IL.=.~~::.:;o:-=d{h:...:.:r~::.:..:.n~~:...:~i:...:.:l~w-h~-~d-~r-~~o-fm_e~--------.J 

VOL XXII NO 9 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Suchy joins 


Ticket shortage 
SMC Board


scatters freshmen 

of Regents

By PETE GEGEN early. But the upperclassmen Staff Reporter all said that it didn't matter By LISA MONTPETIT when we got there, that every­Staff ReporterAn unexpected shortage of one would get (student section) season tickets has left approx­tickets." 
Susan Suchy, a senior busi­imately 300 students with an al­The ticket office had planned ness admistration and econom­ternate season ticket set made on an increase of 300 season ics major from Oak Lawn, Ill., 
up of individual tickets regu­tickets over last vear's total of has been appointed to a one­
larly sold to alumni. 9,400. After Wednesday's sale year term on the Saint Mary's At 4:30p.m. the ticket office to sophomores and graduate College Board of Regents ac­sold the last of 9,700 season students, the office believed cording to the office of Willliamtickets it had set aside for stu­there would be enough. 
Hickey, president of the col­dents, said ticket manager "We were within 100 tickets lege.
Bubba Cunningham. of being on target until today," Rose Anne Schultz, chairper­The rest of the students who said Cunningham. "Today we son of the Board of Regents,wanted tickets got them, had a Jot of upperclassmen who said that Suchy will begin herthanks to the quick work of Jim didn't get tickets on their as­duties as a full voting member Bell, a 20-year veteran of the signed day purchase them. The of the board during the regents' ticket office. All individual demand was unbelievable." 
fall meeting on campus, Octo­tickets remaining for games, ber 13-14. In addition, she willknown as 'singles,' were com­Cunninghgam said every last serve as a member of the Com­
bined in sets of seven, marked ticket in the student section mittee on Student Life and the"student" and sold as season was sold, including 'row 62,' Committee of Mission.
tickets to students in line after which consists of folding chairs "I think it's a great honor," 4:30p.m. behind the last row. Those said Suchy, adding that the po­The problem lies in the loca­seats are normally used as sition is "going to have a lot oftion of the seats in the singles replacements for lost season rewards to it".
packages. The ticket locations tickets. And of all the singles Suchy has worked with stu­are scattered all over the season ticket packages put to­dent admission council, ac­stadium, even within an indi-gether, only 13 remained at the counting club, collegiate choir, vidual set. . end of the day. 
and has served as chairperson
"We're scattered all over the "It worked out--every stu­for Junior MotheDDaughterplace," said Dillion Hall fresh­dent who wanted to get in will Weekend last spring and orien­man Brian Mitchell. "ForMic­get in," said Cunningham. 
tation this fall. 
higan I'm in section 11, for "Unfortunately some students Mary Ellen Smith, directorMiami I'm in section 1. If they will be sitting in section 12 :>f student activities, who hashad known, or could have told 

see TICKETS, page 5 worked closely with Suchy,us, I would have gotten there 
described her work with Junior Mother;Daughter Weekend as "just incredible".



Malloy teaches Freshman Seminar 
"She took a pretty standard weekend and turned it into
By SARAH VOIGT September. Due to Malloy's cause I could control the size, "Father Malloy has always something very special for
Staff Reporter busy schedule, the class meets " Malloy said. been thought of one of the most everyone," Smith said. "We once a week on Sunday Before his presidency, when gifted, effective, popular 
haven't had a parents weekend 
Seventeen freshmen this evenings from 7 to 9:30 in the Malloy taught Theology, he of­teachers on campus. He loves 
like that since I've been here." 
year know Father Edward Administration Building. ten had difficulty keeping his teaching and interacting with Smith added that Suchy
Malloy as more than just the classes a managable size. "I students, " Hofman said. 
"gave 150 percent" to planning president of the University; Why did the University Pres­
couldn't turn away students Since this year is designated and programming even minorthey know him as their Fresh­ident decide to teach a fresh­who wanted into my classes," the Year of Cultural Diversity aspects such as color schemes 
man Seminar teacher. man literature course? "I love Malloy recalled. on campus, Malloy chose cul­and invitations. Smith also
Malloy's section of Fresh­to teach. I didn't teach last year Malloy's decision to teach tural diversity and intercul-stated that Suchy's greatestman Seminar is the first course because I was new on the job. again came as no surprise to taught by him since his in­I always wanted to teach a Emil Hofman, Dean of the 
see MONK, page 6 see REGENTS, page 5
auguration as president last freshman seminar class be-Freshman Year of Studies. 


Appiah: today's young aren't as racist as parents 
By JOHN O'BRIEN News Staff  ism, Appiah distinguished be­tween "intrinsic racism" and  
"extrinsic  racism."  Intrinsic  
Racism, its complexity, and its subtle appearance in many facets of society were the topic of a lecture last night by An­thony Appiah, a professor at Cornell University and associ­ racism justifies discrimination by citing inherent differences between individuals, like skin color and other physical fea­tures, Appiah said. Extrinsic racism is discrimination on the  
ate director of the Black Fiction Project. The lecture, "Varieties of  basis of qualities or percieved qualities of a race.  
Racism," was the first in the "Year of Cultural Diversity" series on campus. Anthony Applah  Appiah accused many racial organizations of extrinsic rac­ism. Movements such as Black  
Bush Poll Headline AP Photo  "It is now conventional to ex­press abhorrence to racism, Appiah concebut few people can give an ac­philosophical as Nationalism were singled out ntrated on the not because they excluded pects of racism members on the basis of race  
Vice President George Bush holds a Boston newspaper headline that announces his tie with presidential nominee Michael Dukakis in a Mas­sachusetts poll while his sister Nancy Ellis looks on.  curate definition of racism," rather than discsaid Appiah. "Racism is not a racism on camptheory, but an ideology." In giving a de uss the topic of but us. finition of rae­ because they included see LECTURE, page 3  

------~----------~­
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988
page2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Athletes fail in most important game: life 
IN BRIEF 
Indiana University is cracking down on alcohol use by the members of fraternities. The IU Alumni Interfrater­nity Council recently passed a resolution banning alcohol from Greek-sponsored events both on and off campus. Last weekend IU officials raided five fraternity houses, confiscating six kegs of beer at one. Formal charges and disciplinary actions will be pursued against this and an­other house which was charged with minor offenses. No alcohol was found in the other three fraternities. -The Indiana Daily Student 
A lesbian marriage has caused an Indianapolis Quaker congregation to sever its ties with its state organization rather than recant the marriage, church officials said this week. The marriage of two women last October at North Meadow Circle of Friends touched off a controversy that congregation leaders feared would result in some kind of disciplinary action from its state governing body, the West­ern Yearly Meeting. "We are like other churches," said the organization's clerk, Lester Paulson. "We are really struggling. It's not an easy thing to deal with." -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Fulbright Grants for study abroad in 1989-90 will be available. An informational meeting concerning these grants will be held on Monday, Sept. 5 at 4:30p.m. in 120 O'Shaughnessy Hall for all seniors interested. Oct. 5 is the Notre Dame application deadline and campus interviews will be held on Oct. 12. -The Observer 
Campus Bible fellowship will have a picnic at the Campus House on Saturday at 1 p.m. The house is at 19525 Pendle St. For more information, contact Theresa Wang at 277-8471. -The Observer 
Football concession stand packets are available in the Student Activities Office on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center. All organizations running stands must pick up their packet before Friday, Sept. 9 or they will forfeit their stand. -The Observer 
The Anti-Apartheid network will meet on the steps of the Administration building at 12:15 p.m. today. There will be a recap of recent news events in South Africa and an introduction to the network. -The Observer 
Folk guitar lessons will be offered through the Preparatory and Continuing Studies in Music program. The lessons will be given by Noaah Carver at Crowley Music Hall. Contact Darlene Catello at 232-5141 for more information. -The Observer 
College Republicans are conducting a door-to-door voters registration drive in South Bend this Saturday mor­ning. Contact Pat Hinton at 259-3636 for more information. 
-The Observer 


\ ' 
0-v-~\~. 
Sff DICI\ DtJID 
-

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 

Design Editor .. . ... Bernadette Shilts Sports Copy Editor .. .... Steve Megargee Design Assistant . . . . _ Christine Labaree Viewpoint Layout ......... Alison Cocks Typesetters ... ·-...... Mark Ridgeway Etc. Copy Editor ... ·-······ Susan Buckley ........................................... Paul Jackson Etc. Layout _ Annette Rowland News Editor.. ·-··-· ....... Matt Gallagher Photographer ................. Don Pan, ECE Copy Editor--················· Ingrid Schmidt 
Tile ~ (USPS S99 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriaa exam aDd vacation periods. Tile Olllener is published by the students of the Univmity of Nouc Dame aDd Saint Mary's CoUCif!. SublcriptioDS may be puro::hu­ed for S40 per y.-(S25 per semester) by writina Tile~. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, llldiana 46556. 
Tile~ II a member of Tile "--da... rn.. All reproduction ri&hts arc racrved. 
After working in the sports media this sum­mer, I have come to one conclusion. Most pro­fessional athletes and their fans need to face a unique dilemma in American sport. 
Most sports, at least at the professional level, are arguably being played with the greatest skill and determination ever. But, at the same time, the athletes who are performing at a peak level are failing miserably in life. 
Let's take a look back at some of the year's worst stories. 
Champion Mike Tyson disposed of the only supposed heavyweight challenger Michael Spinks in just 91 seconds. Since then, Tyson has engaged in a better brawl with Mitch Green outside of, well you figure it out, a 24 hour cloth­ing store (which Tyson says) or a 24 hour nightclub in the Bronx. Earlier, Tyson made quick work of a parking attendant at a concert in Los Angeles and added to his reputation by quarreling with his management, his wife, and his mother-in-law. 
The Boston Red Sox have graced the nation's sports pages this summer with their winning streak. But even more has been said about Wade "Delta Force" Boggs who apparently had been running around with Ms. Margo Adams on team road trips for a couple of years, while Mrs. Boggs stayed in Boston raising a family. As this hit the press, Wade had the nerve to say that the marital ordeal strengthened the Boggs family. 
That's just great: affairs in the papers, boxing matches in and out of the ring, and ram­pant drug abuse across the board in sports. What seems to be lacking is some sort of social responsibility an athlete should feel for the people who not only put them on a pedestal, but also indirectly pay his exorbidant salary. 
This abuse of sport is just recently coming about, or at least just recently being heard about by the general public. Here's one reason why. It's because athletes have been put above everyone else for so long that if a writer or broadcaster has something bad to say about him, the athlete can deny everything and never speak to the journalist again. 
The late Dick Young, a New York Daily News sports columnist, would attest to this. Young felt athletes should be treated like everyone else and once asked Mets' fans to boo Dwight Gooden, a symbol for what was going wrong in sports, upon his return from drug rehab. Mets' fans responded angrily to Young's plea and gave Gooden standing ovations time after time. 
At the same time, these wonderful athletes can pad their living comforts by using the press to demand trades, complain about fan treat­ment, and then write a book about it all. Need I go any further than Brian Bosworth's com­pelling autobiography "The Boz: The Autobi­ography of a Modern Day Anti-Hero"? Classy Brian can tell everybody about recruiting 
Editor-in-Chief 
-. 
~ 



and m room on game days, but what about his own steroid use? It's always neat to look back on things everybody, including yourself, did while having a four year free ride but quietly forgetting your mistakes. 
The same goes for Lawrence Taylor, the poet laureate and possibly the most intimidating player in the National Football League. If he's not dancing on a quarterback's head, he can usually be found holding out of camp for money apparently used for his on-again off-again drug habit. And in this tough world called the N.F.L., Mr. Rozelle sits Mr. Taylor down for 30 days to get his act together. It doesn't matter that it's happened before or that everyone, except Rozelle and management, knew Taylor was off the wagon this training camp. 
These incidents paint a sad picture of Amer­ican sport today. At a time where we should be celebrating the on-the-field accomplishments of the Tyson, Gretzky, and Canseco, we are muddling through stories of Robin Givens, Norby Walters, and Margo Adams. And the owners apparently cannot persuade themselves or their pocketbooks to take a stand on the ath­letes' responsibility toward themselves and the people who pay to see them. When's the last time you've seen an owner or coach say that a player has a problem. Instead, it's usually "he'll be back in 21 days." 
Athletes are people too. The press hounds them, and it's the press' responsibility to cover them as closely as possible. Both the press and the athletes' salaries are being paid by those ­who pay attention to them. Unfortunately, a lot 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 




SUB CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT PRESENTS 
1:FtB0rJ PARTIES ON TBE QUAD 
Starting this Friday 
with ZETO A"D THE HEAT-O"S 
4:00-5:00 Fieldhouse Mall 

Start your weekend right!! 
~--~ 
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 The Observer page 3 

Spicer stresses greater student accessibility to computers at NO 
By MICHAEL WELLS 
News Staff 
Bringing together all of the computing at Notre Dame un­der one office and improving facilities will be the major goals of the new Office of Uni­versiy Computing, according to the University's newly ap­pointed Assistant Provost for University Computing Donald Spicer. 
The improvement of com­puter accessibility for students and faculty is an important priority, said Spicer. This will be addressed over the next few months by the opening of two new Macintosh labs. 
The first of these is scheduled to open in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center in early October. The new room will contain 50 Macintosh com­puters. 
Spicer also said that an even larger lab, this one to be lo­cated in the Hesburgh Library, should be finished over the Christmas break. 
Another important task which Spicer has given priority to is the encouraging of "non­traditional" new uses for com­puters within different depart­ments. This would entail making use of computers to aid research and study in such diverse fields as sociology, graphic arts, and engineering. 
"I'm very enthusiastic about the direction computing is going to take at Notre Dame," says Spicer. "There's wonder­ful potential here." 

Donald Spicer 

Spicer, who left his adminis­trative post at Dartmouth Col­lege to accept the newly created assistant provost posi­tion at Notre Dame in June, is here largely as a result of the report of a 1986 task force on computing at the university. 
According to Spicer, the com­mittee found the university's program severely behind cur­rent standards, and one recommendation was the crea­tion of the new office. 
" Spicer joins Notre Dame at a time when the improvement of computing capabilities 
basis of some established ideol­ogy, whether it be wrong or

Lecture 
right."
continued from page 1 
Appiah said that ideologiesmembers on the basis of their can convince people to ignore race, he said. those facts that threaten their Appiah said extrinsic racism beliefs. However, he said, is similar to loving your rela­"Sane people can be convinced tives not because you want to, to avoid partiality," but he also but because you should love added that the human species your relatives. This is wrong, is "prone to distortions that 
according to Appiah, because show partiality.""decisions are made on the While Appiah admitted that 

ranks as one of the University's highest priority needs," said Associate Provost Roger Schmitz. 
Spicer said that while the new office wants to unify the University's differing com­puter systems under its direc­tion, the colleges which now have their own computer re­sources will not have them brought under its control. "We are in charge of new initia­tives," Spicer said. 
The O'Shaughnessy Macin­tosh lab, for example, will remain the charge of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. Spicer said, however, that it was just refurbished as a joint venture between his office and the Col­lege. 
What plans does Spicer have for the near future? The next step after creating the new of­fice is "to address the other recommendations of the task force, which call for a signifi­cant financial investment." 
Spicer said that the receipt of a grant from a computer firm is expected to be an­nounced shortly, providing some of this funding. 
"I think computing at Notre Dame has fallen behind. It's really a matter of providing the overall direction to make it into a modern resource for the stu­dents and f acuity," said Spicer. 
racism is an ideology and thus, is hard to eliminate, he cited rational arguments as the only means of combatting racism. Those people who refuse to give up their prejudices despite strong factual arguments have a "cognitive incapacity." This general inability or unwilling­ness to accept the facts can only be remedied by "sending them to psychotherapy," joked Appiah. 
"Education is only one part of a complicated society and we must be modest before taking all of the credit," he added. 


NO mainframe worth less than new PC 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Staff 
The University is currently looking for a new computer to replace its IBM mainframe, which reportedly is worth only $2,000. 
Jim Wruck, director of the University computing center, declined to say how much the mainframe cost or why its value has depreciated so much. He said the computer was pur­chased and installed "between '83 and '84." 
The mainframe, an IBM model 3033, occupies a large room in the Computing Center and Mathematics Building. The model was invented in 1975 and has given the University community years of reliable service, Wruck said. 
The Computer Merchant's Blue Book lists the University's 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
Bible Study Group 
-No, we don't do athletics. "Varsity" is just an old word for "University". -What we do is: Meet once a week to discuss the Bible. -This is an interdenominational group. -Wloile the group as a whole is Christian, non-Christians and undecided 
who want to know more about the Bible are very welcome. -In the past, we've had students from both campuses as well as graduate students. If you want to know more about us, just come to the meeting Thursday, 7pm, 309 Grace. Or, better yet: We have a picnic tomorrow afternoon, starting at 2:30pm. Why don't you come, get to know us, and have some fun? Call Jim (283 1621) or Andreas (287 4855) for the details or if you have any questions. 
mainframe computer at a value of $2,000. That's compa­rable to the cost of a new per­sonal computer. 
Serving as a general times­hare for the University com­munity, the machine transfers electronic mail on campus, as well as throughout the nation. It is also capable of communi­
cating  with  other  computers  
around the world.  
"Until  we  have  something  

fairly clear to be a proper in­vestment, we'll live with what we have," Wruck said. 
About a year ago, a speciai task force recommended that the University invest between 20 and 25 million dollars in a new computer system, Wruck said. 
As for the old system, officals are working to create more work stations for teachers and students as well as updating the Macintosh computer lab in O'Shaughnessy Hall, said Wruck. 
A new system would make research easier for students, said Wruck, who added that he would like to see the system be­come an open resource to the community. 
"It does not make sense for a student to have to go to a fac­ulty member to get an ac­count," Wruck said. "We know we have a lot of work to do. We are at the start." 

PRE -LAW SOCIETY Meeting for all seniors who are interested in law school Monday. September 5th 7 p.m. Memorial Library Auditorium Attendance mandatory for Seniors who plan to attend law school 
General meeting for Juniors, Sophomores, Freshmen 
Monday, September 12th 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium 


, j 
--~~~--------------------------------------~ 
~-~-----~--------­

Doors open at 9:00 PM 
Come early. Space is limited. 
Don't miss this campus 
sensation! 
~ September 3 

&~


@~
~@ Campus D.J.'s Kris Murphy and John Staunton will be 
r 
r 

playing your favorite tunes. t Bring old friends, make 
r 

' ~ new ones. t Great prize give-aways 
~ 
r 

r all night long. Open 9:00 -2:00 AM. 2nd Floor LaFortune 
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 The Observer 
Plus grading system debuts 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
A new grading system with plus and minus grades has been implemented by the Academic Council and is currently in ef­fect at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
This new system was enacted last spring when the Academic Council approved the plan brought forth by the Student Senate in cooperation with the registrar, said Dan Gerlach, a student member of the Council. 
"The idea," said Gerlach, "which was discussed at one meeting and voted on at the next, had many (committee members) in favor of it. This high level of interest made it possible for the Council to pass this. The final vote of the Coun­cil was very strong in favor of the new system." 
The registrar supported the plus and minus grading system for "two main reasons -­l.because of the strong student interest in it, and 2.Notre Dame was the only school of this 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
while all their friends are in section 35." 
In keeping with the Univer­sity policy that every student who wants a ticket gets one, the ticket office distributed over 11,500 ticket applications to un­dergraduate and graduate stu­dents at Notre Dame and Saint 
Making the grade 
The new +1-grading system will begin with mid-semester grades this fall. 
Grade  Point value  
A  4.00  
A­ 3.67  
8+  3.33  
8  3.00  
8­ 2.67  
C+  2.33  
c  2.00  
C­ 1.67  
D+*  1.33  
D  1.00  
F  0.00  

• Saint Mary's only 
Observer graphic 

calibre at this time without this system," said Daniel Winicur, Dean of Administration and Registrar. 
In this new system, an 'A' grade is still the highest possi­ble. Grades of 'B+,' 'C-t! and 'C-' have been added to the grading 
Mary's College. 
In the last six years the most tickets ever sold was in 1984 when 9,600 students purchased them. Last vear onlv 9,400 were sold (all ticket numbers are ap­proximate). 
Cunningham noted that the demand increased despite a 50­cent increase in the price per ticket, resulting in a $23.50 in­crease over last season's price of $50 with the two additional home games. 

Atlantic Ocean Living Child Care or Elderly Non-Infirmary Care 
Full time Live-in position available in Boston . Call or write: Helping Hand 25 West St. P.O. Box 17 Beverly Falls, Ma 01919 1-800-356-3422 
scales of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In addition, teachers at Saint Mary's now have the option of assigning a grade of 'l}.t-.' The lowest passing grade at both schools is still a 'D' for undergraduate students and a 'C1' for graduate students, Winicur said. 
This new gradi~g system wil allow "graduate schools and law schools to more accurately compare Notre Dame appli­cants to other applicants and with it teachers can also more accurately assess students' work," said Gerlach. An "explanation of the new system will be on the back of up­perclassmen's transcripts to alleviate confusion," said Ger­lach. 
Gerlach said that the Council approved the grading plan last spring on the day that the stu­dents running for class office were permitted to hang their campaign posters, many of which claimed to be in strong favor of having a system of plus and minus grades initiated. 
The grades will first appear on the Fall 1988 grade reports. 



Regents 
continued from page 1 
achievement with respect to Orientation involved coordinat­ing the effort of 150 students who helped with the program. 
Suchy was nominated by ad­ministration members. Follow­ing a series of interviews, the appointment was approved by Schultz, President Hickey, and administrative members of the 
Sisters  of  the  Holy  Cross,  
Schultz said .  
"She  is  a person  of  in­ 

tegrity," Schultz said, "and one who will represent students in a very mature and profes­sional manner." 
She added that "her personal presence and ease of commu­nication are strong features," and pointed QUt her strong lead­ership and academic abilities. 

r ON TUESDAY ~ SEPTEMBER 6 


q]TI][g ®ffi~[ID3\!JIID] 
Will be holding a meeting for all those who 
are interested in working for The Observer, 
especially those of you who expressed 
interest at STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT. 
The meeting will take place: 
®g[ffi [p[Q] fiTI GDJrn CUJ®wQg]CillJJ~ 9llli(BillG@g 
(1st floor LaFortune) 

SEE YOU 7HERE! 

pageS 


AP Photo 

First Pershings Leave Heilbronn 
U.S. army trucks carrying sections of nine Pershing II missiles roll out of the U.S. Pershing II site Camp Redleg at Waldheide near Heilbronn, West Germany yesterday morning on their way to the United States, where they will be destroyed in the framework of the Intermediate Range 
Nuclear Forces Treaty. See story below. 


First US missiles pulled from Europe 
Associated Press  
FRANKFURT, Germany-­Five West Europeans  West years took  ato  fter the  

streets in massive anti-missile protests, the United States on Thursday began removing its intermediate-range rockets in accordance with a superpower treaty signed last year. 
A truck convoy hauled nine Pershing 2 missiles from a base near Stuttgart, and U.S. offi­cials said they would remove the remaining 420 medium-and shorter-range missiles from Western Europe in the next 36 months. 
"This is an important event in post-war history," West Ger­man government spokesman Friedheim Ost told a news con­ference in Bonn. 
The stationing of the missiles had sparked huge protests in Western Europe, including a coordinated demonstration in 
several cities that drew hundreds of thousands of people in October 1983. Deploy­ment of the missiles began the following month. 
But the anti-missile fervor waned, and by the time Presi­dent Reagan and Soviet leader missiles in December, only a handful of protesters was still active in West Germany. 
Mikhail  Gorbachev signed  
thdir  treaty  banning  
intermediate-range  nuclear  

A group of anti-missile ac­tivists who came to witness the removal applauded as the 15 
U.S. army trucks carrying the missiles left the Heilbronn site in southern Germany, about 35 miles north of Stuttgart. 
A rocket motor explosion at Heilbronn in January 1985 killed three U.S. soldiers and injured 16 others. West Ger­man news reports said the ac­cident led then-Defense Mini­ster Manfred Woerner to promise · residents that Heilbronn would be the first site from which missiles would be removed. 
U.S. Navy Cmdr. Gerry Ryan of European Command Headquarters in Stuttgart told The Associated Press: "It's the first time that U.S. intermediate-range missiles have been withdrawn in Europe. 
"The remainder of the U.S. Army European-based, intermediate-range nuclear missiles are scheduled to be removed over a 36-month per­iod," he added. 
The Soviet Union began removing its missiles from Czechoslovakia and East Ger­many in Februal)'_. 


The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Payroll Clerk 
-must be a junior or senior Accountancy Major . -submit resume to Todd Hard1man in the Observer Office, 3rd floor LaFortune -Deadline Sept 4, 1988 
For further Information contact Todd Hardiman at The Observer (239-5303) 

pageS 
Ticket scalping ban enforced this fall 
By KELLEY TUTHILL News Staff 
Scalpers beware: the Uni­versity is no longer going to tolerate individuals making a profit from Notre Dame foot­ball tickets. 
Ticket Manager Bubba Cun­ningham said that those found selling tickets for a price higher than face value will be escorted off campus and their tickets confiscated. The ticket office will then be able to use their computers to find the original purchaser. This per­son will then be denied future ticket sales. 
Although scalping of tickets is not against Indiana law, it is against University regulations. 
Cunningham said that this year his office has the coopera­tion of the campus security as well as the city, state, and county police forces. "They're willing to help because they, too, hate to see people walking around with a fistful of ~ick­ets," said Cunningham. "These men and their families 
Bradley, candidate Bayh visit South Bend, set stage for debate Wednesday at NO 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND--Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., parlayed his NBA career into cheers of ap­proval before a partisan crowd of Hoosier Democrats gathered yesterday to support Evan Bayh for governor. 
"Evan Bayh is going to win this election and is going to be the first Democratic governor 
of  Indiana  since  1964,"  said  
Bradley.  
Bayh  watched  approvingly  

as Bradley echoed the secre­tary of state's campaign themes of government frugality, better education and 

Monk 
continued from page 1 
tural experience as the theme for his seminar. "I want to pro­vide a context of reading and writing to help the class use various media to experience cultures other than their own," Malloy said. 
The syllabus for Malloy's class includes seven novels, one play, and two movies. The reading list includes such varied works as Elie Wiesel's "Night", James Joyce's "A Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man", and Turgenev's "Fat­hers and Sons". 
Even the Freshman Seminar students themselves supple­ment the theme of cultural di­versity. The seventeen fresh­men represent many different minority and ethnic groups. 
Do any of these freshmen feel intimidated by their teacher's "other job"? Not if Malloy can help it. "By the end of the first class I had all of my students learn each others' names. I want them to feel comfortable with each other," Malloy said. 
Father -Malloy seems-enthu­siastic about his teaching debut as President. He said, "I have a lot of confidence in the stu­dents in a class this small. I always enjoy the dynamics of the classroom." 
would like to go to the game also." 
The new enforcement of the University's scalping law is a result of a situation that has continually worsened over the years, said Cunningham. "People shouldn't be able to make a profit from Notre Dame tickets considering that my office turns down 140,000 
ticket  orders  annually,"  he  
added.  
Cunningham  cautions  all  

those who exchange or sell their tickets at face value to be sure the tickets will be used by that individual and not scalped. "Simply put, one should only purchase tickets to the games they want to go to." 
A new system has been developed to alleviate the prob­lem of individuals with extra tickets on game day. Cunnin­gham said that the tickets can be brought to a window outside of Gate 14 where they will be resold. 
The ticket owner would fill out a card so that he or she could be reimbursed for the 
improved health care before hundreds of St. Joseph County party activists. 
Bayh and Bradley spent nearly 90 minutes at the airport rally and fundraiser before leaving for Fort Wayne and a similar appearance before Al­len County party faithful. 
Bradley, who played basket­ball with the New York Knicks before winning his Senate seat in 1978, compared his high school · basketball career in Missouri to the plot of the movie, "Hoosiers," in which a smalltown team wins the state championship. 
Before he raffled off an auto­graphed basketball, Bradley 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Accounts Receivable Clerk Submit resume by Wed., Sept. 7 The Observer 3rd Floor LaFortune 
For further information contact 

Todd Hardiman 

at The Observer (239-5303) 
recalled the story of a fan who supposedly threatened to kill Bradley's dog if the Knicks lost again to the Boston Celtics. Bradley wrote the fan that he had no dog, and weeks later a gift dog arrived with a message warning: "Bradley, don't get too attached to this dog. 
"And you know what I would say to the Republicans in the state of Indiana who think the governorship is their right?" he asked. "Don't get too at­tached to the Statehouse." 
Bradley claimed a Bayh ad­ministration would emphasize home health care for the el­derly and better health care for poor women and _infants, but 

The Observer FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 

Investigate Delta Wreckage 
Triage workers and investigators use ladders to in-afternoon after the plane crashed at Dallas--Fort Worth spect the interior of Delta Flight 1141 Wednesday Airport earlier in the day. 
amount of the ticket. This win-is the new policy of no reentry southeast and southwest gates. dow will be open two hours to the stadium. 'Pass outs' will This policy of no reentry was before kickoff. This is to help only be given in emergency sit-developed to make the atmo­
alumni who are constantly un-uations, said Cunningham. able to get tickets and previ­ously forced to buy them from 'Bull pens', fenced-in areas scalpers. consisting of restrooms and 
Another change that will af-concession stands, will be set feet Notre Dame football fans up outside the stadium at the 
maintaining control  of  taxes  
and spending.  
''Can  you  imagine  any  

politician who gets into office, and the first thing he does in office is cut his own budget?" Bradley asked, bringing up a Bayh policy that has since be­come part of Bayh's campaign advertising. "That's what Evan Bayh did." 

UtrU~IID W©UD®W!MlDU n~ M©!k\ 
after two consecutive years of 30 win seasons! 
1988 promises to be the biggest and 
best yet. As the Irish play their most 
difficult schedute to date. 
The road to the NCAA Tournament begins at 7:30 Saturday night In the JACC arena. 
The first opponent; state-rival Indiana University. Notre Dame vs Indiana, two of the mid-west's best battling for a spot among the nation's elite. 
NO vs IU 

Saturday 7:30 JACC Arena $2 Adult $1 student 


6 IRISH ATHLETICS 
.MoreThan Just A Game 
sphere more enjoyable for viewers, said Cunningham. Cunningham also said that this is consistent with 95 percent of the stadiums across the country. , 
~------------~
Burns Rent-Ails 

2.5 Cubic Foot Refrigerator 
$45 I School Year 
Free Delivery and Pickup Available 
332 

W. Mishawaka Ave. 
259-2833 


Viewpoint
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 page 7 
Abortion debate lacks Christian context 
A recent article in the Observer con­cerning abortion and the question of morality surrounding it seems to indi­cate that there is a definite lack of knowledge of Catholic moral teaching on the issue. It would seem reasonable that in a Catholic university any issue that we address regarding faith and morality should be discussed in light of the authoritative teaching of the Church. After all, Christ did establish the Church, and He gave her the au­thority to instruct. Unfortunately much discussion about abortion, even in Cath­olic circles, is done without any regard to the teaching of Christ through His Church. Thus the arguments presented are often seen to be severely flawed. I shall speak of three areas in which this problem is most evident. 
John Raphael, Jr. 
guest column 
The first misconception is the debate concerning when exactly human life begins. Because there is medical con­troversy over this, it is often presented as an argument in favor of abortion. However this is not a valid supporting argument in for the morality of abor­tion. In the "Pocket Catholic Diction­ary," by Father John Hardon, S.J., direct abortion is defined as "any destruction of the product of human conception, whether before or after im­plantation in the womb...As a willful attack on unborn human life, no matter what the motive, direct abortion is al­ways a grave moral evil. ... The es­sential sinfulness of direct abortion con­sists in the homocidal intent to kill innocent life. This factor places the con­troverted question as to precisely when life begins, outside the ambit of the moral issue; as it also makes the now commonly held Catholic position that human life begins at conception equally outside the heart of the Church's teach­ing about the grave sinfulness of direct abortion." Thus, it can be seen that for one who claims to be Catholic, the ques­tion of abortion is neither ambiguous nor debateable. The distinction often made between atrocities such as the Holocaust, heinous crime that it was, and abortion is irrelevant to the moral question --and furthermore, any argu­ment which places the unborn out of the realm of human life. Thus, allowing direct abortion is completely inconsis­tent with Christian moral teaching. 
The second point that I would like to 
discuss is a rather short but very im­portant one. Often it is presented as an argument in favor of abortion that other unborns, or even newborns, can be aided by organs of the aborted. It is also said that in the case of incest or rape, an abortion should be allowed. The premise behind these arguments is the same; namely, that one should do evil in order to bring about a good. St. Paul in his letter to the Romans (Rm. 3:8) teaches that the Christian is forbidden to act in this way; thus, again it is seen that in light of Catholic morality this argument is invalid. 
The third point often brought up is that by not allowing a woman to choose to have an abortion, her rights are vio­lated. Thus anyone opposed to abortion is sexist. Our late Holy Father Pope Paul VI had this to say on the subject: "Respect for human life is called for from the time that the process of gen­eration begins. From the time that the ovum is fertilized a life is begun which is neither that of the father nor of the mother. It is rather the life of a new human being with its own growth." Consequently, "divine law and natural reason exclude all right to the direct killing of a human being" (Declaration on Procured Abortion, III, 12). The question is not then one of denying cer­tain women their rights; rather it is one of denying a whole class of men and women, the millions of aborted un­borns, their rights. As long as we are innocent, no one has the right to take our lives. Yet there are those who, on a false understanding of human rights, would take the innocent lives of the un­born. Those who claim that women (or men who consent) have the right to abortion, also claim the right to sin be­cause Catholic morality regards direct abortion as a grave moral evil. 
As Christians we are called to be the salt of the earth. We must not go flat. We have the responsibility to bring Christ and His saving precepts into the world. We cannot be guided in faith and morality by a world that has made leaps and bounds in technological ad­vances, but has also regressed to the renunciation of God and fallen into moral blindness. We must proclaim to the world that Christ is the way, truth and life. And we do this by proclaiming moral truth in all areas and concerning all issues. This means that, with regard to abortion and other issues, we owe it not only to our society, but also to God to proclaim the truth concerning abor­tion. This is the Spirit and letter of Vatican II: The Council proclaims: "Whatever is opposed to life itself, such as any type of murder, genocide, abor­tion, euthanasia and willful self­destruction...all these and others of their like are infamies indeed. They poison human society, but they do more harm to those who do them then to those who suffer the injury. Moreover they are a supreme dishonor to the Creator." ( Gaudium et Spes, 27). 

The Second Vatican Council reaf­firmed the constant teaching of the Church. As Catholics what more do we need besides the word of God as taught to us buy the faith? How can we call ourselves believing Catholics if we dis­agree with something the Church so firmly teaches? One would have to as­sume that many Catholics today are simply unaware of what the Church teaches. They simply do not realize this is not an issue of choice, and that to entertain that direct abortion is morally permissible is completely in­consistent with Christianity. Often, ap­peals are made to compassion when dealing with abortion and other sensi­tive issues; this is correct. Compassion, however, does not mean taking the path of least resistance nor that of maximal convenience. It means, as the Latin root makes clear, to suffer with. Al­ways, we must beseech the mercy of God and ask Him for the grace to over­come our adversities, but we show no compassion--in fact, we do the greatest harm to all involved --when we turn away from the saving precepts of our Lord. 
John J. A. Raphael, Jr., is a senior phi­losophy major. 

P.O. Box Q 
ROTC inconsistent with Catholic beliefs 
Dear Editor: 

I read with fascination Major S. A. Lindsey's Viewpoint column in the Aug. 26 Observer. While it never achieves precision, the column's apparent design is to express its author's anxiety about a recent examination undergone by the University's ROTC programs, undertaken by twelve University fac­ulty members and underwritten by the University's Provost. Major Lindsey fears that the publicity surrounding the examination and subsequent "Report on Ethical Aspects of the ROTC Pro­gram" might afflict impressionable readers with a suspicion that "the mil­itary is the only profession with moral or ethical challenges." To dispel this, the Major presents an exotic catalogue: mandatory drug testing in the Marine Corps, the military chaplaincy, service fundraising drives, and the oath to defend the Constitution ("a pretty moral and ethical document"). He con­cludes that "Christian values should pose no spiritual dilemma to Notre Dame midshipmen." He describes those of us who have misgivings about the appropriateness of ROTC on a Cath­olic campus as "moralists," and I suspect that his use of the term is derisive. 
The word "killing," the major reminds us, cannot be found in any De­partment of Defense mission state­ment. I don't doubt him. The word is missing from most pro-abortion rheto­ric, too. "Exploiting" is probably ab­sent from Playboy's editorial state­ment of purpose, too. So what? Military organizations are designed to kill people for reasons of state. It may be possible to be simultaneously a Christ­ian and an effective soldier, but it should be crystal clear that military science will always be profoundly at odds with a faith which respects no na­tional boundaries and insists that all human beings, even the major and I, are sons and daughters of the same fa­ther. 
Michael 0. Garvey Department of Public Relations Sept. 1, 1988 
Parents thank SMC Orientatic,n 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to express our sin­cerest thanks to the Saint Mary's ad­ministration, the Orientation '88 Com­mittee, the student body, and parents for the Orientation '88 weekend. The weekend was well organized, informa­tive and caring. Because of everyone involved it was less difficult leaving our daughter at her new home. We will miss her but are confident she will realize her potential at Saint Mary's College. 
The Parents of Juli Pleva Aug. 26, 1988 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 


BUT IT'S GOING 7D TAl<&





OONNY, I ti/OUWN'T /3G
TRUMP ANO Pf?£7/..EY' IA/13'Rl3 UI/3'VE 
Quote of the Day
MORE THAN:i2 MIUION I MeAN, I

H8RE IF I IJI[)N'T 8£3..­
7AU<JN6 CCWIEBACI<. M-471C 
5AY AU98EN
7HANK 
A IA/13151<., MAN. I'V8 GOT 1,200

AT TH&-HfJTTE5TCASINO V/3NUG 
l/GV/3 IN YOU A5 A 
NO 77-I&RE,
YOU. 
GOT A lOT OF RE-IU136/TIM~

j IN 7Ht. U/014[).1 /A/HAT[)() YOU 
QUALITY PROMOT!3R. 
MOR&. !<.lNG. 
; ~Y, I<.ING~ 
GV/3RYTHING ABOt/T I {}{1~70 WHAT YOU 5CRE:AM:3 SUPPOF<T. I AG&S? 
"Behavior is a mirror in
QUAl./7Y. I

. \ / l~r 
I 
which everyone displays
/ 
his image." 
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e~her institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Edltoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager... . ........ Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Edltor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager .......................... Mark Ridgeway SportS Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen ControHer .......................................... Todd Hllldiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 
Doc's golden discovery 
KENDRA MORRILL accent writer 
Y
ears ago, Doc Pierce sold bottles of a potion called "Golden Discovery," which was actually booze but sure made his patients feel good. 
Today, Doc Pierce's restau­rant will undoubtedly be a golden discovery to those who haven't tried it yet. 
The warm, rustic atmo­sphere of Doc's--which is friendly and casual, yet romantic at the same time-­creates the perfect setting in which to enjoy a relaxed, ex­cellent meal from appetizer to dessert. (For those desir­ing a really intimate meal, Doc's has one booth that seats only two people side by side at the table.) 
One suggestion--make reservations a day in ad­vance. Those without reserva­tions are still seated, but not before a lengthy wait. If you do have reservations and are not seated on time, the Doc­tor will furnish cocktails while you wait. We, however, were seated nearly a half hour before we were supposed to have been seated. 
If perfection is possible in a meal, Doc Pierce's achieved it. We started off the evening with a bottle of Sauvignon Blanc ($9.00), a white wine that would enhance any meal, especially the fish or chicken dishes. 
A huge portion of potato skins ($3.25), topped with melted cheese, bacon bits and served with sour cream, began the meal. The skins were excellent and are ideal for two to share. Other tempt­ing appetizers on the menu are the sauteed mushrooms ($2.45), french onion soup au gratin ($1.95) and cocktail delights ($3.95 or $7.45), which are unpeeled shrimp simmered in beer and avail­able by the quarter or half pound. · 
The entrees alone would be enough to satisfy the hungriest person and are amazingly low-priced for the quantity and quality of the food, including a tossed salad, hot bread and choice of baked potato, steak fries or rice. 
The salads were enormous, covering what would be a normal dinner plate. The bleu cheese dressing was deli­cious, containing large chunks of cheese, and the homemade croutons--deep­fried with parmesan cheese, garlic and seasoning salt-­were the highlight of the salad. 
The orange roughy ($8.95) was absolutely fantastic. The large, mild filet, baked with a sour cream and parmesan cheese topping, was cooked to white, flaky perfection and served with lemon and melted butter on the side. With a baked potato (easily six inches long) served with sour cream and butter, the dinner was one of the best I've ever eaten. 
The chicken mornay ($7.95) was equally delectable and prepared in an equally generous portion. The fresh boneless breast of chicken was sauteed in herb butter and white wine and topped 
see DOC'S, 10 

The ObMMI£'Jim Brake Billboards sharing the original Doc Pierce's history distinguish this fine Mishawaka restaurant. 
ROSE HERRMANN accent writer 

or over 100 years the Adminis­F tration Building with its brilliant Golden Dome supporting the majes­tic statue of the Virgin Mary has been the heart and the focal point of this University. The statue and dome symbolize the ambitions and dreams of 28-year-old Father Ed­ward Sorin who founded the Univer­sity in 1842 and named it Notre Dame in honor of his special patro­ness, Our Lady. 
According to Thomas J. Schlereth's book, "The University of Notre Dame: A Portrait of Its His­tory and Campus," the story of the Dome begins in 1844 when construc­tion was completed on the first main building. This building was the basis of Father Sorin's young University and the site where the majority of the institution's activities took place. Academic instruction was from elementary to college preparatory, with only about 12 college level stu­dents. 
But Father Sorin envisioned big­ger things for his University. So, in spite of tight finances, he decided to expand Notre Dame in 1863 by reconstucting the original building, and replacing it with a grander, more impressive structure topped by a white dome and statue. 
All of the classrooms, dormitories and faculty sleeping quarters, as ' well as the library, museum and dining halls were situated in the new main building. When fire destroyed the still new main building and four adjacent structures on April 23, 1879, most people assumed that the staggering financial loss would mean the end of Notre Dame. However, the now elderly Sorin was determined not to give up on what he had put his en­tire life into developing. Four days after the fire, he addressed the com­munity and declared his intention to rebuild the University. 
The April 22, 1879 edition of the South Bend Tribune quoted Sorin as saying, "Tomorrow we will begin again and build it bigger; and when it is built, we will put a gold dome on top with a golden statue of the Mother of God so that everyone who comes this way will know to whom we owe whatever great future this place has." 
Fundraising committees were formed immediately, and donations were collected from all over the United States. The following week, 
isto~ 

30 architects submitted their drawings for a new main building. Mter the selection of a design by 
W.J. Edbrooke of Chicago, the ground was broken on May 17. Three hundred laborers worked for 16 hours a day to ensure that the building would be ready for the opening of the fall semester. 
The students at Saint Mary's showed their support of the rebuild­ing by donating the 19-foot 4,000­pound cast iron statue of Mary. The statue was made by Giovanni Meli as a replica of a erected by Puis l Spagna in Rome, 
In September o months after the building, minus tl wings and the do1 the returning stw money was being dome, the statue placed on top of t front entrance. 
In 1882, the don and gilded and th 

FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 

Rolling toys gather no moss ­
I 
'm in the painful process of moving from Pasquerilla West to Stanford Hall. 
The Stanfordites will prob­ably never be present at a more tumultuous arrival un­less they live to see the glory of the Coming of the Lord. The women of PW will prob­ably never witness a more belabored departure unless, as saints, they witness the foot-dragging that goes on at 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the Last Judgement, when the souls of the damned are banished into everlasting fire. 
I'm sorry to be leaving PW; that goes without saying. I'm excited to be moving into Stanford, because it's been a part-time home to me for 20 years. The sorting out of my emotions will have to wait until later, however. Right now, I feel crushed by the logistics of relocating books, clothing, records, keepsakes, and junk I've been collecting since I was ordained. 
My dog, Darby O'Gill II, is very confused by the commo­tion; he's afraid, I think, that I'm leaving him behind, be­cause his toys and dishes are still in the old room, and he can only find a water bowl that doesn't have his name on it in the new digs. He keeps staring me in the face to ask me what's happening. How can I convince him we're in 
CHRIS DAUER 
ROB REGOVICH 
accent writer 
C
onfessions of a Pop Group, the latest release from The Style Council, looks at first glance like another case of European pretentious­ness. With this particular al­bum The Style Council ap­pears to be challenging the 
MUSIC i!, 
~' ~~-'~ -'//.''""',''/•/. ,').~ 
listener to properly place the group somewhere in the musi­cal spectrum. 
It is obvious both from the album notes and the album itself that the group is moving away from its pop­oriented cast into a more jazz and instrumental strain. Yet, the album is named Confes­sions of a Pop Group, which seems to suggest that the music produced on it should be the mainstream. The al­bum notes claim that if we were all conscientious music listeners, this is what we would listen to all the time (a strong statement from a group whose highest Ameri­can chart position is just into the top 60). 
One has to think that Con­fessions indicates an attempt at a lyrical message that will respond to this claim. Unfor­tunately, all too often sub­stance is provided by brood­ing black and white cover shots. Seriousness is all well and good; after all, each gen­eration of bright intellectuals needs someone (or more than one someone) to say nice things nicely. Sooner or later· though, they have to provide consider himself in serious violation of his vow of poverty. 
It used to be that a priest being changed from one parish to another would receive his marching orders on Tuesday. He was expected to fold his tents like the Arabs and silently steal away to his new rectory, reporting to his new boss on Saturday, ready to hear the afternoon confessions. A modern priest might need that much time to get his bar supplies packed and delivered. 
Why must a modern priest spoil himself with the knick­knacks of luxury and im­pedimenta that slow him down more than an albatross around his neck? One priest I know had an excuse for buying a Cadillac: "Noth­ing," he said, "is too good for the Blessed Sacrament;" meaning that when he brings the Eucharist to the sick, the Real Presence needs leg room that you can't find in a cramped little Volkswagen. Who can question this man's respect for Jesus? 
In honesty, I am not so reli­gious. I have pictures I point to when I'm trying toes­tablish my identity as a sensi­tive person deserving of respect. I have conversation pieces that come in handy when I'm tired of talking about myself. I have one or two collector's items that I show to acquaintances, hoping to make them jealous. I have objets d'art whose only 
see GRIFFIN, page 10 

our new home when nothing in that freshly painted apart­ment smells like home to 
him? 

I am astounded at the sheer volume of things I own: Lladro figurines, for example. I have 28 of those Spanish porcelains, arranged on shelves that were built to hold them. I have a set of seven Havilland china plates hang­ing on the wall next to the 

Lladros to give the wall color and a balancing richness. 
An old-fashioned priest would never allow his life to be so cluttered with earthly possessions that slow down his mobility. He'd observe the Gospel directive as a wise rule to live his life by: "Don't carry excess luggage, and don't take anything with you that you can't carry easily on your back." 
The old-fashioned priest would consider that owning a stereo, a television set, three radios, four typewriters, doz­ens of records, hundreds of books, plus other miscel-· laneous treasure costing a pretty penny, plus a closet full of clothes which, if stitched together end to end, would cover as much ground as the main tent used in a three-ring circus--the old-style priest, having so much tran­sitory stuff to care for, would 

lsimilar sculpture IX in the Piazza di 
f 1879, just four fire, the main e east and west 
e, was ready for 
ents. While the 
raised to build the 
f Mary was he portico of the 
e was completed e two wings were extended. The dome is a free­standing structure with a brick foun-. dation and iron skeleton and a wood facade. The Administration Build­ing's completed dimensions are 320 feet by 155 feet and from its base to the top of the statue, it towers 206 feet above the ground, the highest building on campus. 

For over a its century of existence the Administration Building has had more diverse uses than any other building at Notre Dame. The base­ment, which was once used for trunk storage, classrooms, lavatories, and dining halls now is the location of the purchasing depar­tment, the cashier's office, the ad­missions office and the comptrol­ler's office. 
On the second floor, where the main entrance is located, the presi­dent's and vice president's offices, sleeping rooms and parlors were once where Information Services is today. The Provost's Office was formerly the University Parlor where concerts and receptions were held. 
The third and fourth floors were used for dormitories. In addition, the fourth floor housed the library. Architecture, sculpture, mechanical drawing and photography were taught on the fifth floor, which is now closed to the public due to fire hazards. 
In addition, the fifth floor was the location of the University museum and various academic departments. Finally, there were originally two chapels and 22 classrooms scattered throughout the building. 
The history of the multipurpose Administration Building is filled with numerous traditions. For ex­ample, The use of the main front steps used to be restricted to only visitors, faculty and alumni. Com­mencement exercises were held in the main building with a procession down the front steps. Only after successfully completing a degree program was the graduate con­idered equal enough to ascend the steps and smoke on the porch with his professors. 
Over the years there have been several proposals to demolish or reconstruct the Administration Building, but just as Father Sorin's dream of establishing a prominent Catholic University refused to be squelched by various hardships, the Dome remains standing, as a bright symbol of our University's tradition and future. 
Sizzle without substance 
a little steak with their sizzle. The sizzle is of course the delicious sound, but the steak is hardly enough to feed a soul on the Lost Hope Diet. "To busy living in the past to live in the future" (from the title track) doesn't sound as if a great thinker is in our midst. 
None of the oh-so­considered doodlings offered on this album approach the much more lively, fun spirit of the group's earlier songs, especially their mild Ameri­can hit "Shout to the Top." 
Let's not forget, though, that sizzle is still important. On this level The Style Coun­cil seems very well named. Style drips from this album. The vocals are haunting on the ballads and inspiring on the upbeat tunes, especially the female voice that seems to have appeared from nowhere. (There is no men­tion, only a photo of her to be found on the notes.) The in­

strumental pieces are clever and keep your attention in a way that "the Wave" doesn't. The songs are just plain beau­tiful. There is no other way to describe them. Plenty of strings and piano parts mix and accent quality harmonies--something rare in music today. Without a doubt, Confessions has true technical excellence. 
The quality music makes it hard to dislike this group, even if they lack true sub­stance. After all, finding sub­
. stance is not an easy thing to do. Nevertheless, there is something scary about liking this album. On the one hand, it is wonderful listening. The music is pleasantly moody. It constantly brings to mind well-dressed people sipping cocktails and discussing Allan Bloom. But Style Council is the kind of gin-and-tonic music your parents probably would like and, let's face it, that's pretty frightening. 

-


ew 
Business. 

The TI Business Edge 
Unique Power Touch display 
with touch-sensitive panels: 
two fOr finanaal, two fOr 
statistics. Twenty pre­
programmed functions in all. 

-.... 
That's why you need the new TI Solves for such financial results Business Edge calculator. It as present and future values, an­features a unique Power Touchn.t nuities, amortization, and interest display panel with five display conversions. Performs one and screens that are preprogrammed to two-variable statistics. 
Ifyou're planning a career in solve 20 ofthe most essential Want to get an edge in business? 
TEXAS~

business, the first order ofbusiness financial and statistical problems. Get an edge in school first, with is to get the right tool for the job Just touch the screen to enter and help from the TI Business Edge. INSTRUMENTS you have right now-school. store information. 
IH0006 '"TmJ~mark ofT~x<~s Instruments lncnrpomt~ ©1988 Tl. 
Get the "Edge" in your finance and statistics courses with TI's new Business Edge~ 
Etc.
rape 10 

GRIFFIN 
continued from page 9 

excuse for being is that they are delightful; in the evening, when I'm tired, I look at them, and feel rested. 
I have books that I will never have time to read, and records and tapes I have lis­tened to once and will never be tempted to hear again. I have ephemera I bought on shopping days in London when I was feeling homesick and spending money seemed to be the best way of killing time. I have stacks of things that were given to me, some of which I can't get rid of fast enough; others that I know friends will check to see if I still have when they look in curiositv around mv room. 
My main excuse for being devoted to Lladro figures and Havilland plates of unicorn tapestries in the Louvre is that I would like to have a modest estate to leave my nephew when I die. Celibacy can be a real pain if you don't have relatives who want to inherit your watch and the brass plaques with your name on them. My nephew already has a watch, he tells me; if he considers my watch expen­dable, he is not apt to be ex­cited over the trophy that honors me as the Senior Class Fellow of 1973. Lladros and unicorn plates will be someth­ing his wife can enjoy, so I guard them as heirlooms charming enough for the fam­ily to hold onto. Maybe my superiors, reading this column, will regard it as a last will and testament, naming my sister's boy as the beneficiary of the left-over valuables in my life that the Holy Cross Community doesn't want. 
A Bible verse I memorized as a child is appropiately didactic: "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riche, and a loving na­ture is better than silver and gold." I believe the verse; however, I wouldn't mind 
"Celibacy can be 
a real pain if you 
don't have rela­
tives who want to 
inherit your watch 
and the brass 
plaques with your 
name on them." 
having great riches, either silver or gold, or valuable property I can't take with me, interest-bearing bonds that I can leave in my will. I gave up all such forms of earthly vanity when I took the vow of poverty. As a re­placement, I substituted deli­cate items that I'm afraid of breaking, instead of working to acquire a spotless reputa­tion and a Christ-like disposi­tion. Now I'm punished by worry over thieves breaking in or moths corrupting the treasure-trove I have set my heart on. I could end up like Marley's ghost wearing chains made from boxes and ledgers he has to drag around through dusty rooms he is doomed to haunt. 
Does God really mind if I keep a few pretty things that will become hand-me-downs to my nearest, dearest rela­tive? If I thought He did, I would hold a garage sale, the proceeds of which would go to the missions. Tired as I am from dragging breakables from one dorm to another, I would give them up happily, if I felt that I needed to do so, to save my soul. 
Coventry Patmore has a poem he called "The Toys," about a child who has cried himself to sleep after being harshly punished: " ... on a table drawn beside his bedHe had put within his reach!A box of counters and a red­veined stone/A piece of glass abraded by the beach/And six or seven shells/A bottle with bluebells/And two French cop­per coins, ranged there with careful art;ro comfort his sad heart." 
The boy's father, grieving because he unjustly struck the lad, prays that when he himself lies asleep in death, God will look on him pater­nally as He remembers "of what joys1Ie made his toys." Instead of chastising him for his childishness, he hopes God will treat him with tenderness and kindness. 
May God think gently of me, wearing myself out over playthings which couldn't be more of a nuisance if they were the rock that old Sisyphus kept pushing up the hill, so that it could roll back down on him as soon as he reached the top. 
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 
WVFI 640 a.m. 
TOP TEN 
Aug .23-Aug .31 

1.Barbed Wire Kisses Jesus and Mary Chain 2.Go Bang Shriekback 3.Lullaby Book of Love 4.UB40 UB40 5.AII of This and Nothing Psychedelic Furs 6.0ur Beloved Revolutionary Sweetheart Camper Van Beethoven 7.People Hothouse Flowers 8.Creator Lemon Heads 9.Tighten Up Vol. 88 Big Audio Dynamite 10.Married to the Mob Soundtrack 
DOC'S 
continued from page 8 with mornay sauce, moz­zerella and parmesan cheese. The sauce, butter and cheeses came through enough to add a delicious flavor but without drowning the tender chicken. As a final touch to an excel­lent dinner, the menu offers two desserts, Chocolate Frozen Yogurt Fudge Pie ($1.95) or New York Style Cheese Cake ($1.75) with Strawberries (add $.30), which is as good as any cheese cake one might find in the The Big Apple. 
As well as milk, hot or iced tea, soft drinks and coffee, Doc Pierce's offers specialty drinks and an adequate wine list. 
The service was excellent-­very attentive and conscien­tious without being overbear­ing and rushed. Our waitress, Dina, even took the time to relate some of the history of Doc's, which is owned by the same owners as The Em­porium. 
The original Doc Pierce may not be selling his "Gol­den Discovery" anymore, but the restaurant makes up for him. It sure makes its pa­trons feel good. 

-----------~------­
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 The Observer page 11 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The racquetball club will be running a league again this year. Any interested racquetball players, please call Mark at x1412 or Dave at x1572. -The Ob­server 
Men's lnterhall football captains must come to a meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium. Captains are asked to bring the name of the team mem­ber to be certified in CPR or the CPR card of a player who currently holds certification. Equipment issue will begin early next week. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club's organizational meeting has been changed to Monday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Varsity will begin at 7 p.m., and novice will begin at 8 p.m. All interested rowers, please attend. -The Observer 
The ND women's softball team will hold a meeting Monday at 4:30p.m. in the Joyce ACC football auditorium. All those interested in women's varsity softball should attend. -The Observer 
Tile a.--Notrw Dame office, locaWd on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· ct.nt Center, .ccepts claalfled .m.tt•nalrom 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtdlly. 11le a.--Saint Mery'1a office, locllt.d on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•, .ccepta cr.alfteds !rom 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday ttKough Frtdlly. DMdllne lor next-day claAifledala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat 
Classifieds be pn!IIMI, either In person 01' by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per live ~perday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x1177 
USED TEXTBOQKS .. ALL CLASSES! Bought & Sold .. Bast pncesl PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. rust oil of N.D. Ave. ph.233·2342 
WORDPROCESSING 237·11149 
Dressmaker wtll create that spectat gown you need lor even1ng or wedd1ngs. Call Betty at 7 458 days or 289·1321 eves or weekends. 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 
CHRISTMAS SHOPPING WITH AVON 277-7406 
AttentiOn Liberals! 
Vote Dukak1s 
Any Quesbona? 
Call Paul nowl x1728 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST· Sel ol keys, one keynng having senhmental value Keys are II 346. Reward 1llound Call Paul at 3610 
LOST· M1dway A111ines t1x lrom DFW to LGA on IY13 somewhere b1 Nieuwland L1b and 2nd II LaFortune on &25. Very 1mpt S$ reward. call OJ 287·5502 
LOST ·Blue ID holder w1th 10.. Detex & Key and ceiling card on rny way from D1llon to Flanner Call283·2558 Chnssy. Reward. 
FOUND· Lost money order, call BEN II 1488 
LOST One gray St. John's Un1vers1ty swealshlrt; disappeared wh1le wait1ng 1n line w1th run~ors lor football t1ckets. My laundry tag IS 1n II so you know It's not yours. McFty. and I may have some un· speakable commumcable d1seases Call 
Matt at x3500 or x3633 to save your health and rece1ve an ungodly amount ot money as a reward 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY... 1·219·291· 7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 255-3684288-0955 
FURNISHED HOMES I ROOMS FOR RENT.NEAR CAMPUS.2n-6306 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE. 810 HOWARD ST. $300MO¢UTILITIES. DEPOSIT RE­QUIRED 288· t 002 
EII1CI8ncy apt near N.D. $160 & $140 mo. Call 259-4943. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAKFAST. Juot 20 mlno. from NO. Ideal lor ell NO octlvltlel. Reserve now. 616-471·5711. 
N1ce fum. home Safe area near N D. 287-6389·683·8889 
ROOMATES NEEDED ..Nice house, walking distance from campus. sauna,2­car garage. $14Gtnonth Call lor Tom at 283-3824 and leave a message 11 not there 
WANTED 
NEED MONEY? WE DISTRIBUTE BOOKS 10·20 FLEX HAS. PER WEEK $4-HR 288-1002 BETWEEN 5 AND 7 PM 
NOW HIRING. DOMINO'S PIZZA. DRIVERS, PIZZA MAKERS, PHONE HELP. S4 HR. PLUS TIPS I MILEAGE. CALL AFTER 3:30 P.M. 277·2151 OR STOP AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
TuitiOn paying parents need MIAMI and MICHIGAN GAs..WIII pay S$ or TRADE USC or PENN STATE tlx. Save a life, call 3593. 
LEADERS WANTEDII CONTACT ARMY ROTC AT 239·6264 ASK FOR CPT WARRICK 
I NEED 3 STANFORD GA TICKETSIIIF YOU HAVE ANY OR KNOW WHERE I CAN GET SOME, PLEASE CALL MIC· HELLE X 4021 
Ride needed to U of I at Champaign. Leave Fri Sepl 2. Will pay$$. Call Scott at1045 
STUDENT BANDS TO PLAY AT DOWN· TOWN BAR. WE PAY WELL. CONTACT PETE BEFORE 2 P.M. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY AT 289·8031 OR SEAN AT 289·1021 AFTER 6 P.M. 
FOR SALE 
CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CALL FOR FACTS TODAY. 602·837·3401. EXT. 881 
BMW 2002, '72, sunrl, engine rebft ..runs like new. $4000 219·872·2636 
ALL NEW GLEE CLUB MEMBERS TUXEDO FOR SALE! Very Cheap • call Mark at 1423 
TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALEI 
Two PRINCE SPECTRUM ceromlc rae­
quell 

with cover and pre-otrung lor $180. 
All lntereoted call Mark at 1423 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN· TALS AT 272·5959 ANYTIME. ......................................................... MACMODEM FOR THE MACINTOSH. COMP. WITH ALL MAC$. MANY FEA· TURES CABLES.MANUALS.SOFTWARE INCL ASKING $350 CHUCK AT 3211 
Blue, lull-size sola, excellent cond. 2 day beds wtorner table (sofas by day, twin beds by night), pert. cond. 255·4048. 
FOR SALE: 1979 PONTIAC FIREBIRD. Everything works. VB.aulomatic,Air., pwr.sleeringtlrakes,AMFM stereo.1 owner(N.D.student),clean.$1500 or best offer. 239·6209 
87 CAMARO, FIRE RED, LOADED, LIKE NEW, $8500S.O. CALL X3856 
GREAT coffee lable lor sale, perfect tor dorm or apartment not to mention many a decent quarters game. Impress your lnends. family, ST and dog with this fine specimen at a steal ol a deal-only $1511 call Ann 283-4321 
PEAVEY P.A. SYSTEM FOR SALE 400w head. 150w cabinets Excellent! condition, AWESOME sound call Paul x1847 anytime 
Premier 4 piece Drum kit FOR SALE Just refinished, make me an offer call Paul x1847 anytime 
TICKETS 
I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAME TIXS.272..fl306 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL HOME GAMES. 272-0058. 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and be in their band. My sister is in the Band of the Fighting IRISH. My parents need to be at the Michiga~D game to prevent my siblings from killing each other and to see their belo9ed children at this game of high sentimental value. Help stop needless violence. Sell me 3 tickets and keep my lamily lnlact. $$ little or no ob­ject. Call 2804 or 272· 7690. 
I want Michigan tixllllllllllllllllll Lots of them tor BIG $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP 
HELPIII NEED GA TIX FOR MICH, STAN, MIA, RICE, PENN ST GAMES CALL CHRIS AT 272·0882 
................................ 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STANFORD PURDUE MIAMI OR USC. VERY SERIOUS $$$$$$$$$$ IN· VOLVED.CALL JORGE • 2065. 
NEED 4 NO-PENN ST. TIXI CALL COL· LECT DAVE OR KIM, 317-243-9430 (DAY), 317-339-9334 NIGH'T. 
I will do ANYTHING In exchange lor either one student or one GA lor the Mlc· higan game. Call Kerstln at 4220. Please help me because I am desperate. 
NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIC· HIGAN GAME, WILL PAY $$$$1 CALL BILL x1837 
NEED 2 TIX MICH-ND. CALL COLLECT 315-672·3617 AFTER 5 PM. 
NEED 2·4 PENN ST TIX. WILL THROW IN 1 STANFORD TICKET IN ADDITION TO$. CALL 2113. 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN AND PURDUE, STUDENT OR GA. CALL MICHELLE AT 2668. 
Need MICHIGAN ticket{Studen\<GA)I Have Stanlord,AirForce,Rice,Navy,& Mich.State GA's to trade. Call # 4031 
I NEED 2 TICKETS My family is coming into town for the Michigan game. Please help me lind them a place in the stands! Call me at 272-5535, ask lor Michelle 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X2743 
Please let my parents see their first NO football game. Sell me 2GA'S lor the RICE GAME. BIG $$$. CLAUDINE x4002 
Must get1 student or GA lor STANFORD game. PLEASE HELPII Call Claudine x4002 $$$INVOLVED! 
Want to sell Pin TIX or trade for AIR FORCE??? Call x2831 
MY BOSS IS A DOMER Sell me two Stanford GAs and let me keep my job John 1376 
....................... 
HELP I NEED 2 MICH GA'S. WILL PAY 
BIG$$$$. CALL TOM 1856 
...................... WILL TRADE 1 MIAMI STUD OR 1 AIR 
FORCE STUD(OR BOTH) FOR 1 MIC­
HIGAN GA. CALL ALEX, 3385. HURRY I 
I NEED THREE GA'S FOR THE RICE GAMEt PLEASE CALL X2743 
MICHIGAN MICHIGAN NEED 10 GA'S MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI NEED 12 GA'S CALL GARRETT 287·5871 
NEED MICHIGAN OR STANFORD GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$$1 PLEASE CALL #3770 
·•·•·•••················· ... ··············•·• NEED 2 GA PURDUE TIX. AMY·X2665 .............................. WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN GA'S ... TOP $$$PAUL (616)·926·2986. 
Need Mich tix more than any human on earth, no kidding. Call John at x1178. 
I need Michigan GA's. Will pay or have Air Force and Rice GA's to trade. Call Heidi at 4189. 
I need any home GA's. PLEASEIII Call Monica at 41891 $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
........................ 
I NEED MICH TIX CALL MIKE 4113 
NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 287·3311 DAYS 7·5. 
NEED (4) NOTRE DAME-PENN STATE TICKETS! CALL COLLECT DAVE OR KIM, DAY 317·243-9430 OR NIGHT 317-339-9334. 
I need 2 Miami GAs more than anyone else on this page. $$$$ x1609 
....................................... 
NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT OR GA. CALL TONY AT 1089 
WILL TRADE 2 ND·MICH TIX FOR 2 NO-MIAMI TIX. CALL 407·727·8354. 
................................................. 
HOME GAME FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED. CALL 283·1143, FLANNER HALL # 626. ASK FOR TIM. 
.H.ELP.. ME"i·i--NEE'Cl"3"G·A;S..FOA"THE 
MICH. OR PURDUE GAME. HAVE WEAL THY RELATIVES WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$. CALL BECKY 284-4376 
............................. . ................. 
MY BRO SUFFERED THRU THE FUZZV ERAI IS THERE A MICH TIX FOR HIM? BILL x4640 
I'll cook you a dinner 
That won't make you thinner 
I'll make you baked goods 
I'll iron your duds 
I'H give my first child 
Be crazy or wild 
I'll launder your clothes 
II you'd end my woes 
2 Michigan tickets are what I need 
So help me please, I beg and plead! 
272-7690 
HELPII Friend from Calif. coming I Need 1 Mich. ticket GA or stud. $$$$$ Call Jeanne x3021 or 1713 
HELPI I NEED 1 MICHIGAN STU. TIX. WILL PAY$$ I CALL JOHN .(\T X 2153 
SEX HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE FACT THAT I NEED 4 MICH. STU. OR GA. TIXI CALL DAN AT X 4100. 
HEY I I NEED A TICKET TO THE MICHIGAN GAMEl WHAT ELSE IS NEW, RIGHT? CALL CHRISTINA AT 2759. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GAs FOR 2 STANFORD, RICE OR PENN ST GAs. x3293 
The epitaph on my father's grave will read: My only regret In life is that Notre Dame couldn't play Purdue TWICE a year, so that we could watch them lose twice as olten. Help him watch stinking 
P.U. lose at least in football. Need TWO G.A.'s for the P.U. game (Sept.24). Please call Beth x1264. 
Is anyone up for a ROADTRIP?? How about watching Notre Dame crush Navy? For TWO tickets, call Beth x1264 (Will also trade for TWO Purdue tix) 
NEED GAs FOR PENN ST. OR ANY HOME GAME.$$$$ x1281. 
WE WILL TRADE MICH AND STANF GATIX FOR MIAMI TIX. CALL 684·1304. 
TICKETS NEEDED BADLY. FAMILY COMING FOR PURDUE GAME. GA'S AND STUDENTTIX WANTED. WILLING 
TO PAY GOOD $$$. CALL TOM AT 
X2742. 
selling 2 MICH TX call 4634 NOW 
I NEED ONE MICHIGAN STUD OR GA. WILL PAY OR TRADE STANFORD STUD. CALL DAN X1310 
HEYIII Need Stanford, Pitt & Mich tix. Call John at 3410. 
BEAT THE RUSH sell your Miami tickets nowl 4 recent and wealthv alums are looking for 4 GA's 
Call Sara at x2851 or Mary at 289·9134. 
Tickets! I niHid '""'· 
4 Stanford GAs would be greatly appre· 
ciated. 
Please call283-1151 If you can help. 
MSU TIX For sale and trade Mike S. # 3419 
NEED FOOTBALL TICKETS Purdue: 3 GA'S or 2 GA.'S and 1 student Stanford: 2 student tlx. or 2 GA'S PLEASE CALL DIANE x2147 
I need 2 or 4 G.A.'s vs Mich. Call Joe at 255-mo before 9pm. 
I NEED TICKETSIIIIII Okay, ao does everybody else, but I really need thiHII. I need 6 tickets lor Purdue, either student or GA. Please help me out. I will pay cash, children, food, drugs, anything lor them. Cell Jim at 1109 or leave a menage 81239­7471. 
MI·AM·I In need of tickets. 4 GA's needed(Miami) call Jim at 1647 WILL PAY$$$$ 
·························································~······ 
Desperately need 1 Mich GA. Big $$ in· volved. Call Andrea at 3858. 
I have FOUR Michigan tickets to trade for FOUR Miami tickets. Please call ASAP if interested. Call Karen x2722. 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD FOR 2 MICH GA'S CALL MIKE 2238 
SELL ME MICHIGAN TICKETS. CALL MARIE 277-5294 
...............................•... 
HELPII NEED THREE MICHIGAN GA'S. ANYTHING YOU WANT. CALL SAM AT 259·8337. 
I NEED ONE STUDENT OR G.A. FOR 
MICHIGAN CALL BILL AT 1647 
............................... 
Some sucker Michigan fan is willing to 
pay big bucks lor 2 GA tickets to see his 
team fail miserably Sept. 10. Call his 
ticket agent at X3489. Ask lor Brian. 
PERSONALS 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x1177 
HAPPY WILD AND RAUCOUS BIRTHDAY TO OUR VICIOUS UGANDA BABEl WE LOVE YOU VIBHAI THE SIX· MAN OF PE 

In case anybody cares, Evelyn Diaz had a birthday two days ago ... How many of you wished her a happy one??? 
a n~ce person 

Hey Usa M., Make sure you get beHer soon...They really need you in the pantry. Besides, the other food share people just aren't the same. (Veronica, make sure she gets this.) 
a concerned PJ 

GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAM&ST MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box t94 Notre Dame, IN 46656 
'WINDY CITY SHUTILE" sponsored by the Student Activities Office will start Sat· urday, Sept. 3, departing from the Main Circle 9:45am. Tickets $10 at Lafortune Information Desk. Next shuttle will run Saturday. Sept. 17. Unversity I.D. re­quired. 
I DESPERATELY need 5 GA's lor Mic· higan. I can get by with 2 of those as studenl tlx. My family Is willing to pay a lot of$$$$$. Please call T.J. at283·1837. 
SCHOLARSHIP OPPORTUNITIES: EARN A LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP THIS YEAR. CALL ARMY ROTC AT 239· 6264. ASK FOR CPT WARRICK. 
EXPERIENCED DRUMMER SEEKING BAND. TOM AT 277·7571 
Grand Opening! Grand Opening! THEODORE'S! Featuring: THE GROOVE Friday Night. Doors open at 9:00P.M. Come earty. Space limited. 
To whom It may concern, On August 22 of this year a box contain· ing various books was taken from the back area of Farley Hall. The box has the name Michael Ury on II. If you mis· lakenly took this or took II on purpose please return il. This box contains many of my books needed lor my major. II you have any information please call # 3331. No questions will be asked and your cooperation will be greatly appreciated. Now finish reading the rest of the per­sonals. 
My family -From MIAMI-wants to see the Irish blow away the CANES Don't let them down! I need 4 tickets for the MIAMI game. Money$$$$ is no object ·at all. Call Paul x1847 anytime. 
SMC EQUESTRIAN CLUB MEETING 
6:00 SUNDAY, ROOM 105 SCIENCE BLO. 
THE JUGGLER-those interested in working lor Notre Dame's Fine Arts Jour· nal should meet In the JUGGLER office on 3rd floor LaFortune Mon Sep 5, at 9PM call 3609 
AMY WHITE! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAVE A GREAT ONEI 
........................................ 
FIELD HOCKEY PLAYERS Sunday mornings HANGOVER HOCKEY call Sue 3834 or leave name & number 3872 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DAVE KUMEK with Beot Wloheo ..L.A. 
HEY..YOU! YES, YOUI YOU WILD PW WOMEN ... MOL, MAURA, JANICE ¢CO. Want to express much thanks lor easing our respective pocketbooks. Without y'all, our room would have never looked so beautiful! LOVE, DEANNA and JULS 
SOPHOMORE CLASS MASS AT THE GROTIO Sunday, September 4 at 4:00 Followed by reception a1 Theodore'• Including video ollreohmon year Bring blankets! 
Bambllllllll Always remember every back In the forest loves youll Don't wor· ry .... Be HAPPYIII 
Dave Yagnauk... Happy 22 ¢ 2 days/! How 'bout a rain check lor that baer? ..Kendra 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY J.P. from your friends on first floor ALLEYIII Have a Blatz on uslllll 
YOU DIDN'T WAKE US UP ONE TIME .. YOU DIDN'T WAKE US UP TWO TIMES... NO YOU WOKE US UP THREE TIMESIII WAY TO GO LUKEI Oh..., my GOD!II II is Theresa Digeralamo's 21st on Sun­day. Watch out men of South Bend ... She 
Is on the loose! 
Happy 21st to the vogues! woman of Far· ley Hall. We love you, Theresa D. I 
My brother from Illinois doesn't believe Murphy's bunch can douse his Illinois· Chicago Flames. We need 2tix for April's showdown at Jake Kline Field. Willing to trade two dozen Miami football tlx. Call Mark at 228·3507. 
A U COOL? 5 HOT SMC CHICKS LOOKING FOR MALE COMPANIONS WRITE BACK FOR MORE INFO. 
HELPII AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF A RIDE TO U. OF fl. THIS WEEKEND! I CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL PAY $$ PLEASE CALL KAREN AT 284-4342 ASAP I 
HEIDI HARTWIG, Happy 18th Birthday! Love, Your Big Bro. 
Hi Debbie Whirl Thought I'd say hi here since I don't see you very often anymore. C. Ste1n 
DEAR BEST WISHER: You have res· tored my faith In N.D. community. THANK YOU SO MUCH I But, things worked out with the T. Office. Please call COLLEEN 283·2862 so that I can return your kind· ness. GOD BLESS! 
What do SMC chicks and Domino's p1zza have In common? They both deliver In 30 minutes or lessl 
seeR'v.....N.Eeos····PsvcHoLoorcAi. 
HELP. WE ARE CONVINCED OF IT IIIII 
COURTNEY·A penny for your thoughts? 
...................... 
COURTNEY-Happy Blrthdayllll Hope you have a great birthday. We have had some great times together (I.e. 'What's the matter liHie bunny?", Top 25 Reasons Knot to Date .... , Naugles drive-thru and the milkshake, etc.). Love, The Gang 
SHORIN-RYU KARATE SHORIN·RYU KARATE SHORIN·RYU KARATE Demonotrellon cl111 Mondey Sept. 5 Fencing Gym JACC 7:00 pm Sponaored by NVA 239-5100 Dtac:lpllna Sell-Defense Sell-Confidence Fllnaao 
To Mozer end Marguerite Happy Heppy 18th B-elay Keep up the "cheezy" grtno lor In· other 18 Mozart Give u1 18 "ahemyo" and 1 to grow on Megll XOXO The Gong 
TRANSFER STUDENT PICNIC TUES. 5:30 P.M. IN STEPAN FIELD PRESENT AND FORMER TRANSFER STUDENTS INVITED! 
TONIGHT AT SENOR KELLY'S IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
UVE ACOUSTIC MUSIC with Sean & the Sun Kings 9 p.m.-72, $1 cover SEAN & THE SUN KINGS AT SENOR KELLY'S 
SEiiN & THE 
SUN KINGS 
SPOT AND BONES THE DREAM GIRL WAS FLATIERED BUT WE NEVER PROMISED YOU A ROSE GARDEN. HOW 'BOUT SOME FUDGE FOR SOME "BUD" INSTEAD??? ARE WE EVEN YET???? MUSH AND TIGGER 
WHEN COURTNEY COURTED JESS'IT WAS SUCH A GOOD FEST! WHEN HE DROPPED ON ONE KNEE! AND MADE A HEARTFELT PLEA! JESIL YN SIMPLY SAID YES' .SO DO CONGRATULATE HER OVER SOME TEAl SHE'LL BE HAPPY WITH COURTNEY/ BE SURE TO WISH HER WELL/ BEFORE THE WEDDING BELL&' BEGIN RINGING ON JUNE 3, 1990. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY YOU VOGUE WO­MANIII THERESA DIGERALAMO IS 21 ON SUNDAYII CELEBRATE WITH YOUR USUAL DESIGNER STYLEII WE LOVE YOUIII 
---------~------~-------------­

page 12 The Observer FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 
Irish still unsure about kicking, punting positions 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Take five guys with a grand total of two minutes and 39 seconds of playing time, and what you've got is a rebuilding project. 
Three walk-ons, a former basketball player and one scholarship holder make up the kicking game for Vinny Cer­rato, the Irish recruiting coord­inator who works with the punters and kickers during the season. 
The key to the Irish kicking game (and everyone else's) is consistency. 
"When we all started out, we knew what we needed most was consistency," Cerrato said of his inexperienced crew. "I have to say that every one of those guys has really im­proved." 
This is the second consecu­tive starting-from-scratch season for Cerrato. Last year, Ted Gradel replaced Irish record-holder (field goals in a game, season and career, at­tempts in a season, career percentage and season percentage) John Carney at placekicker, and Vince Phelan 
Baseball roundup 
won the punting job with ex­actly one collegiate punt on his resume. 
Phelan ended up setting a career mark for punting average last season, but both 

Reggie Ho 
Gradel and Phelan have been lost to gr:;tduation. 
Stepping into Gradel's shoes (which probablv will be too big for him) is junior Reggie Ho, of Kaneohe, Hawaii, who had one successful point-after last season. 
"I'm not exactly big in stat­
ure," the 5-5, 135-pounder said. 
Ho's deadly accuracy may be combined with the stronger foot of sophomore Billy Hack­ett, the only scholarship kicker on the team. 
"I came in very confident this fall," Hackett, a native of Sarasota, Fla., said. "I started having trouble with field goals inside the 30, but I've corrected the problem this past week." 
According to Cerrato, Hack­ett, also the only kicker with game experience (2:39) and Ho may share the kicking duties this season, with Ho taking the extra points and short field goals and Hackett making the longer attempts. 
"Billy and Reggie have both come very far," Cerrato said. "Reggie has always been pretty consistent, but he's got­ten even better, and Billy has a strong leg. There's a good possibility that we'll be working with both of them, seeing them in the game depending on the situation." 
Two seniors and a sophomore are battling for the puntingjob, and again, consistency is the key. Sophomore Jim Sexton of South Bend has been the most consistent this fall, according to Cerrato. 
If the first game were today, what would happen? 

Tigers lose, _Red Sox win 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Rob Deer's two­run single keyed a five-run fifth inning and Mike Birkbeck won his eighth game since being recalled from the minors as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Detroit Tigers 6-2 Thursday night. 
The first-place Tigers, who have lost eight of their last 10, saw their lead in the American League East drop to 1 1-2 games over the idle Boston Red Sox. 
Royals 5, Twins 2 

MINNEAPOLIS Mark Gubicza beat Minnesota for the second time in five days with a nine-hitter and Jamie Quirk knocked in two runs, lifting the Kansas City Royals to a 5-2 vic­tory over the Twins Thursday 
UM's QB is still unknown 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -The jury's still out on Michigan's starting quarterback, with five players vying for the position ­six, if you count coach Bo Schembechler's tongue-in­cheek candidacy. 
Schembechler said Thursday that he hasn't decided who will call the signals against Notre 
Dame  on  Sept.  10  in  South  
Bend, Ind.  
"You don't  want  to  put  a  

young guy in a bad position," Schembechler told a news con­ference. "I would say we're probably leaning a little bit toward a veteran. But that doesn't mean that's chiseled in stone." 
Demetrius Brown, a junior, started 10 of 12 games last year but threw 16 interceptions, seven at Michigan State. The other quarterbacks are junior Michael Taylor and red-shirt freshmen Wilbur Odom, Eric Bush and Ken Sollom. 
night. Gubicza, 17-7, struck struck out eight and walked none. 
Blue Jays 5, Rangers 1 
TORONTO -Jimmy Key pitched a six-hitter for eight in­nings and Ernie Whitt homered, leading the Toronto Blue Jays to a 5-1 victory over the Texas Rangers Thursday night. 
Key, 9-4, struck out five and walked two before being relieved by Tom Henke to start the ninth. Key outdueled knuckleballer Charlie Hough, 11-15, who gave up six hits, four walks and five runs in 5 1-3 in­nings. 
Tigers get O's Lynn, but not for post-season 
DETROIT -Veteran out­fielder Fred Lynn, obtained by the Detroit Tigers as pennant 
insurance, cannot qualify for postseason play because he missed a deadline for reporting to the club by 10 minutes, team officials said Thursday. 
"It's not even a question of 'may not' " be eligible, Tigers spokesman Greg Shea said. "He is not." 
Red Sox 4, Angels 2 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Larry Parrish's two-run homer keyed a four-run sixth inning that lifted the Boston Red Sox to a 4-2 victory over the California Angels Thursday night. 
With Boston trailing 2-0 on Wally Joyner's two-run homer in the fifth, Dwight Evans led off the sixth with a single off Terry Clark, 6-3. Evans moved around to third base on a pair of infield groundouts before scoring on Todd Benzinger's single. 


The Diamond 

"I don't think we'd punt," Sexton said. 
"Really, though, I think I've 
progressed well," he contin­
ued. "But then again, so has 
everyone else. We're all 

Sean Connor 
working, all getting better at the same pace." 
Also in contention for the punting job is Sean Connor from Ziegler, Illinois. Mter three seasons on the basketball team, Connor gave up his final season to try out for football. 
"It was a tough decision," Connor said. "I've missed foot­ball. I haven't really played football since high school, so I'm really excited about this season." 
Pete Hartweger of Creve Coeur, Mo., is the final maq in contention for the punting job. 
"It's been a great fall," he said. "Everything's gone bet­ter than I expected. Starting out, I had no idea what would happen; I just knew that every­one had a good chance." 
For both the positions, the competition is intense. 
"Both those guys have been punting well, especially Jim," Connor said of his competition. "It's going to be tough to get the job." 
"Any one of us could be playing at a different school," Sexton said. 
Cerrato said a team can't overlook the importance of the kicking game. 
"Having a great player on the kicking team is as valuable as having an offensive or de­fensive star," he said. "Something like one in five plays involves kicking, so you can't underestimate the value. Ifyou get the field position, you gain a real advantage. 
"It takes some good people to make the kicking game a weapon instead of a liability." 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 

HOW TO STAND OUT IN A CROWD. 
Saint Mary's College women are recognized everywhere by their official ring crafted by BALFOUR. 
Design Integrity with more options at a fair price, on campus personal delivery, No COD shipments and charges and over 20 years experience has made BALFOUR the overwhelming supplier of choice. 
September 6,7 ,8 and 9th is Ring Week at Saint Mary's College. You can order your Balfour ring from 10:00-4:30 on any of these days in the Haggar College Center Game Room. 
Look for the BALFOUR table to order yourring. 
BALFOUR 

"The Preferred Jeweler of Saint Mary's Women" 
$Balfour. 

3214 Menauquet Trail Michigan City, Indiana 46360 
-------~--· 

AP File Photo West Germany's Boris Becker was sent packing from the U.S. Open Thursday with a loss to Darren Cahill of Australia. Cahill eliminated the fifth-seeded Becker In straight sets. 
• Paul "Jukebox" Jukic Turns 21 This Weekend 

• 

Wish the Croatian Madman Happy Birthday at x174.3 
U)le covei ~~ 
T·SHIRTS SWEATS 
AND MUCH MORE!! YOUR DESIGN SCREEN PRINTED TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 255-4239 
The Observer page 13 
Becker's Open ends quickly 
Darren (not Ce Ce) Cahill ousts 5th seed in straight sets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Boris Becker was upset by a lightly-regarded Australian in straight sets at the U.S. open Thursday while Pam Shriver was ousted by the third best tennis player in the Soviet Union. 
Steffi Graf and Martina Nav­ratilova kept form in perspec­tive and cruised into the third round. 
Becker, a West German seeded No. 5 and still seeking his first U.S. Open title, was given an unexpected exit by Darren Cahill 6-3, 6-3, 6-2. 
Cahill is no relation to Notre Dame sophomore Ce Ce Cahill of the Irish women's tennis team. 
"What can you do? it's the 
U.S. Open and you have to do your best," the two-time Wimbledon champion said. "It's just that my best wasn't good enough today." 
Becker's sore feet were sprayed with a freezing sub­stance several times during the match, but it didn't help the fifth seed. 
"When I was pushing for a couple of shots, all of a sudden the pain came very strongly. Then I couldn't play the next few points," said Becker, who withdrew from last month's 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 16 
tween the two teams. The Hoosiers lead the Irish 3-1 in the lifetime series. 
Notre Dame counters the Hoosiers with eight returning monogram winners including five starters from last season's North Star Conference cham­pions. Although the team has posted two consecutive 30-win seasons, it has yet to make an appearance in the NCAA post­season tournament. Head Co­ach Art Lambert has set his sights on the tournament by Canadian Open because of 

similar foot problems. 
"All he had to do was hit the 
ball a little away from the cen­
ter and I couldn't reach it. I 
don't think it was a difficult 
match for him." 
Brad Gilbert, who beat Be­
cker in the fourth round at last 
year's Open, was an upset vic­
tim Thursday. The No. 11 seed 
lost to Jaime Yzaga of Peru 1-6, 
6-0, 6-4, 6-2. 
Third-seeded Stefan Edberg 
breezed past Guy Forget of 
France 7-5, 6-1, 6-3, while No. 2 
Mats Wilander got a scare from 
hard-serving Kevin Curren 
before prevailing 3-6, 6-3, 6-2, 
3-6, 6-3. 

"It's tough against Curren 
because he hits so hard," said 
Wilander, who is now 12-1 in 
five-set Grand Slam matches. 
"I couldn't get any rhythm." 
Shriver was eliminated by 
Leila Meskhi 4-6, 6-1, 6-4. 
Graf, going for the first 
Grand Slam sweep since 1970, 
beat Manon Bollegraf of the 
Netherlands 6-1,6-0, while Nav­
ratilova, seeking her third 
straight Open title, ousted Elly 
Hakami 6-2, 6-1. 
Meskhi, a 20-year-old who is ranked behind Natalia Zvereva and Larisa Savchenko in the Soviet Union, rallied from a 2-4 deficit in the final set and dug 
handing the team a grueling schedule that includes nine of last year's top 14 teams. 
As for Indiana, the Irish hope to avenge last year's loss. 
"Last year's match against Indiana," said Coach Lambert, "was our worst hitting game of the season. 
"Opening with a win can do more for a successful season than anything." continued Lambert. "The key to our game is passing and ball con­trol, without them, it will be a long season." The nucleus of the team is made up of seniors. Team captain Maureen Shea will handle much of the outside 
out of a 0-40 hole in the final 
game. 
"The idea was to stay as 
close as possible, not lose my 
serve and take chances on 
Shriver's serve," Meskhi said 
through her translator, Soviet 
team coach Olga Morozova. 
Also advancing to the third round were fifth-seeded Gabriela Sabatini, No. 10 Claudia Kohde-Kilsch and No. 11 Zina Garrison. 
Sabatini beat American Beverly Bowes 6-2, 6-0, Kohde­Kilsch eliminated Raffaela Reggi of Italy 6-2, 2-6, 6-4, and Garrison topped Helen Kelesi of Canada 3-6, 7-5, 6-0 
Men's winners included third-seeded Stefan Edberg, No. 8 Miloslav Mecir and No. 10 Henri Leconte. 
Edberg beat Guy Forget of France 7-5, 6-1, 6-3, Mecir defeated American Sammy Giammalva 6-4, 6-1, 7-6 (7-5), and Leconte downed Barry Moir of South Africa 6-0, 6-4, 6-4. 
Shriver won two tourna­ments and reached three other finals before coming down with mononucleosis just before Wimbledon. She has struggled ever since, reaching a low point last month with a loss in Los Angeles to 15-year-old Amy Frazier. 
hitting against Indiana along with career kill leader Zanette Bennett. 
In the middle, three-year starter Mary Kay Waller will cause opposing hitters to think twice about coming her way. The match will also feature the return of The match also will featurP. the return of junior Kath} Cunningham, who missed most of last year with a shoulder separation, and the debuts of freshman setter Julie Bremner and hitter Joanna Bruno, who both will start in Saturday's match. 
"If we take each match one at a time, we should have a top­20 season," said Lambert. 
It's somebody's 21st, Kumbaya! She's going to get trashed, Kumbaya! 
Will she puke? Kumbaya! Oh Lord, Kumbaya! 
Happy Birthday Theresa 
Digeralamo! 

FRES MEN 
NG ON TAE EAST 
SATURDAY,SE 11 EMB 
9:00A.M. u ON 
-~ ---~~--~--------~---~ ~~--------­
-

page 14 The Observer FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The new sportswriters meeting, originally scheduled for Sunday night, has been rescheduled. The meeting now will take place immediately following The Observer orientation meeting that starts Tuesday at 9 p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium of the LaFortune Student Cen­ter. Anyone interested in writing sports for The Observer who is unable to attend and who did not attend this past Monday's meeting should contact Marty Strasen at 283­1471 or 239-5303. -The Observer 
Shorin-Ryu Karate will hold a demonstration class on Monday at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym of the Joyce ACC. All are welcome to watch the class or register if interested. Cost is $15 per semester and classes will be held on Monday and Wednesday from 7 to 8: 30 p.m. Contact NVA at 239-5100 for further information. -The Observer 
The NO women's crew varsity team will hold a mandatory meeting today in the ground floor lounge of LaFortune. All varsity women who want to row must at­tend. If you can't attend, call Kelly at 284-5002. -The Ob­server 
The NO track team will have a mandatory meeting Wednesday, Sept. 7, at 4 p.m. for all events in the indoor and outdoor season. The meeting will be held at the Loftus Center auditorium. -The Observer 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club will hold tryouts for the 1988-89 team on Wednesday and Thursday at the Joyce ACC Pit. You must attend Wednesday night. For further information, please call Jim Sullivan at x1844 or Mike Shimota at x1986. -The Observer 
The NO Water Polo Club will hold an introductory meeting Monday at the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune from 8:30 to 9:30p.m. Any questions should be directed to Jay Blount at x2303. -The Observer 
The NO Gymnastics Club will hold a meeting Tuesday, Sept. 6 at 4:30 p.m. for all those interested in joining the club. All old members are required to attend Tuesday's meeting, which will be held at Angela Athletic Facility in Saint Mary's College. Any questions should be directed to Terence Kelling at x1866. -The Observer 
The Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament will be Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 registration fee and must have a minimum of two girls. Proceeds will be donated to Dismas House. Signups will be held Monday and Tuesday in both dining halls at breakfast and dinner. Any questions should be directed to Kris Malaker at x1915 or Rachel Lyons at x2895. -The Observer 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 

Suba scored again at 57:30, 
finished out the Irish scoring at 
74:44 by calmly converting a penalty shot, making the final score 5-l. 
Overall, Grace was very pleased with the inaugural game. 
"We accomplished every­thing we wanted to ac­complish," he said. "The out­side competition has given us an opportunity to see what we need to work on." 
The team was very excited about the victory as well. "We still have to work to­
gether a lot," said Sub.a. "But it's fun, and we're really sup­porting each other." 
The women will travel to 
Aggie QB back home at LSU 
Richardson returning to his roots for A&M-LSU skirmish 
Associated Press 
LSU's official homecoming isn't scheduled until Oct. 29. But it will be a homecoming of a different sort Saturday night when Texas A&M visits Baton Rouge. 
Bucky Richardson, A&M's sophomore quarterback, grew up seven miles from Tiger Stadium and ''always dreamed about playing there.'' 
But as he grew older, Rich­ardson's dream of starring in an LSU uniform began to fade. He signed with Texas A&M and started five games last season as a true freshman. At LSU, which already had an outstand­ing quarterback in Tom Hod­son, he probably would have been redshirted. 
This will be Richardson's first visit to Tiger Stadium in an enemy uniform. LSU coach Mike Archer says he made the right choice of schools. 

"In recruiting Bucky, I stressed to him that he had to make the decision that was right for him," Archer said. "He made the right decision to go to Texas A&M. He led them to the Southwest Conference championship and the Cotton Bowl last year." 
Richardson has no regrets about leaving home. 
"You grow and yoli mat1,1re and your horizons are a lot broader once you take your recruiting trips and see every­thing," Richardson said. "It's just a learning process, and I felt it was best for me to move on. 
"There are other programs in the country just like the one you grow up around. I didn't really realize that until I got out and visited and saw the sup­port of all those schools. 
"I think the mature players are able to pack up and leave home because they know that's the best thing for them. I'm not saying that people who stay home are immature. I'm just saying that you have to realize what's the best for you. The best for me was coming to A&M." 
USC 34, BC 7 
NEWTON, Mass. -Rodney Peete's passing set up two touchdowns by Aaron Emanuel and a pair of field goals by Quin Rodriguez Thursday night as eighth-ranked Southern Cal whipped Boston College 34-7 in a 1988 football opener. 
Peete, a fifth-year senior who led USC to the Pac-10 champi­onship last year, picked apart BC's secondary while complet­ing 21 of 33 passes for 271 yards and one touchdown. 

SMC volleyball readies for season 
By JANE SHEA gether. By the end, the teams Saint Mary's Sports Editor seemed evenly matched, and both had their share of good 
The Saint Mary's volleyball blocks and spikes. team began its fall play Senior captain Tammy Suth Thursday with a pre-season leads the Belles' attack this 
game against Lake Michigan season. A strong sophomore College in which no score was class also should make its pres­kept. The exhibition match ence known throughout the was used as an opportunity for season. both teams to rotate all its St. Mary's opens its season players into various positions. Tuesday at St. Joseph's Col­
"I felt the team came along lege. 
"It will be a hard fought match," said Medley "The teams are about equal." 
The Belles hope to improve on a 1987 season that saw Saint Mary's place second in its con­ference and win the Districts. 
"The team's schedule is tougher than last year's but the players are also tougher,"said Medley. 

at the end,"said Belles coach,-----------------------­Sue Medley, "I am happy with 
Welcome Back Students!
the team's performance." Lake Michigan came on 

•••••Club Shenanigans •••••
strong at the start of the scrim­


mage, but the Saint Mary's teamwork pulled the team to­
...... 

and junior Sullivan l""•••••••••••••••••••lll•
K.T. 

Renssalaer on Tuesday, Sept. llllll....llll..••lllliillillililiiiii.••A.I..I..I.I 6, where they will confront St. Jr~YYYYWWWWWWWWIWWWIWIWIWIWIWIWIW""' 
Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments NOW RENTING FOil FAIL 
Completely furnish~ balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Office at 820 ND Ave 234-664 7 
Call Anytime 

Joseph's at 4 p.m. They will return home to Krause Stadium on Sunday, Sept. 18 against Western Michigan at 11 a.m. 

If~·rc goi~ todrink at"K.l drive at lea<;! let the re.1 of LL'> knCMc 

Reader's Digest 
COLOR TV RENTALS Microwaves -stereos 
25" TV -only $90 I semester & Tax 19" TV only $70 I semester & Tax 
FREE DELIVERY FREE SERVICE 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959 
Lunch----Dinner 

Trv our EXCLUSIVE SANDWICH MENU-Over 30 new items featuring the heavy rock-n-roll band "DREAMER" Playing Fri. & Sat. lO:OOpm -2:30am 
52303 Emmons Rd. Mon.-Thur. 11 :OOam-1 :OOam 
1 

Georgetown Shopping Center Fri.-Sat. 11 :00am-3:00am 277-1727 
u.sva..l Q.ve.,ry 
9:ooern-2~00o.m 


-----~-----~-----------­
FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 
CAMPUS 
Friday, September 2 
7:30 
a.m. to 8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross Hall 

7:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Communication and Theatre film, "Radio Days," directed by Woody Allen, Anrien­berg Auditorium. 


Saturday, September 3 
9:00 a.m. First Saturday Holy Hour of reparation to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Sacred Heart Church crypt. 
9:45 a.m. Chicago bus trip sponsored by the Student Activities office, leaving from the Main Circle and re­turning at 10 p.m. Cost is $10. 
6:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Carnival night, sponsored by the Student Union Board, at Fieldhouse Mall. Cost is $0.50 per event. 
7:30 p.m. Women's volleyball vs. Indiana University, main arena, Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Clam Rolls Beer Batter Perch Bourbon Baked Ham Chocolate Chip Pancakes 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Tomato Meat Loaf Pizza Deluxe Apple Cheese Bake Deli Bar 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 
1 Wagnerian earth goddess 5 Fauna's 
partner 10 Transaction 14 Bit; trifle 15 Yellow-fever 
mosquito 16 Wavy, in heraldry 17 With "The," a 
mystery novel 20 Feted 21 Obliterate 22 Disturbances 23 Kitchen 
utensils 
25 Cape Cod sights 26 Jawbone 
30 Top rating 31 Semiprecious stone 32 Author of 17 and 50 Across 36 Raleigh and 
John Smith 37 Fam. member 38 Egg dish 39 "Cheaters" 42 Prevarications 43 Embellished, 
as nourriture 44 Young 
haddock 47 Obvious 50 Morality novel 54 World rotator 55 A dye 56 Recorded 
proceedings 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
57 Was beholden 58 Prerequisites 59 Actor Roger 
1 Huge German 
dam 2 Debauchee 3 Put in bad 
humor 4 Reach 5 Diamond 
features 6 Yorkshire city 7 Bizarre 8 Friend of 
David 9 Botanist Gray 

10 Threshold .. 
11 Sicilian city 12 Augments 13 --majeste 18 Suntan lotion 

ingredient 19 Father of 28-lazuli 
39 Junipers 
49 Clement C.

genetics 29 Chemical 40 Part of Pfc.
23 Young salmon suffixes Moore's
41 Make beloved24 Part of A.D. 30 Tijuana tidbit opener
43 Icy

25 Relig. sect 31 Sacs 51 Hankering
44 Norman town

26 Mass of timber 33 Scooped out 52 Lot of 27 Discipline 34 N.Y. city or 45 Army food Wednesday's dealing with lake 46 Frenchman's child 
53 Killarney-to­living 35 "Rock On" dream 

organisms author 48 Memo Blarney dir. 


Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 




SURE.. ~OU c~tn B£. t.t.Ec~tt> or..o 
Wln·\0\IT f... 
~. RIGI\1? 
N<£ Y<YJ GO\!{<; 10 KEEP 11-\£. Mot-\ I''IE. W..DI OR G£1 "­
NEW R\.11'1~1~<; 
W>-.1£? 
Coral reef grafiHI 

•• CHECK OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEK: ;
• 

: CARNIVAL !i Movies this Week: i 
! SATURDAY,SEPT.3RD ! 
! 6-1 0 PM Friday: Good Morning Vietnam ! ! Fieldhouse Mall Saturday: Knute Rockne: All American !
• : FOOD! MUSIC! GAMES & PRIZES! All Times: 8:00 pm & 10:15 pm : 
: Admission $2 : : 50 cent tickets for each event. Cushing Auditorium :
. :
: . 
• SPONSORED BY ND STUDENT UNION BOARD ' 
·························································································································' 
-
-

Sports
rape 16 FRIDAY, September 2, 1988 
•
Irish soccer halts Ramblers 1n season-opener 
By PETE GEGEN net for the first goal of the a missed scoring chance three play well on defense. I'm not -said that he made the switch to Sports Writer game at 15:16. minutes after the tying goal. happy about our marking at give some playing time to "I'm disappointed that we The referee awarded Notre midfield and the way we were Lyons, whose Albuquerque, gave up that goal and were Dame a penalty kick for a bringing the ball up from the N.M., horntown does not have 
The Notre Dame soccer team down 1-0," said Irish head co­Loyola hand ball in the box, but back." summer soccer leagues. 
started the season on the right ach Dennis Grace. "But for the keeper Brian Closs stopped· The offense continued to With a 3-1 cushion at the start foot with a decisive 4-1 victory most part we played well, and Guignon's attempt. The refer­click in the second half, and of the second half, Grace made over Loyola (Ill.) Thursday I'm happy we came back the ee, however, whistled Closs for Sternberg headed in a McCourt three other changes in the night at Krause Stadium. way we did." moving before the kick, and cross to put the finishing lineup, starting sophomore 
Seniors Bruce 'Tiger' Five minutes later, Randy Guignon made good on his touches on Notre Dame soc­Danny Stebbins at forward, McCourt and John Guignon Morris initiated one of the pret­second attempt. cer's 100th win ever. The Irish freshman Karl Roemer at mid­each had a goal and an assist, tiest scoring plays ever seen at Murphy made it 3-1 when he also kept alive their string of field and freshman Mitch Kern and seniors Pat Murphy and Krause Stadium. Morris deflected in Steve LaVigne's 11 straight wins at home since at wingback. Grace continued Joe Sternberg tallied the other eluded one Rambler's mark, pass from the left corner. The moving to Krause Stadium last to freely substitute throughout two goals. dribbled around two others and play was started by more fancy season. the second half. 
But before the Irish could set a perfect pass down the line finesse play in the midfield by Senior Kevin Mayo started The team leaves this mor­score, the Ramblers brought to Guignon. Guignon topped the Sternberg. the game in the first half and ning for Lafayette, Pa., to play back thoughts of last season's play with a perfect pass to "Our offense is looking earned the win. Junior Danny in the Metropolitan Life Soccer 2-1 overtime battle when McCourt, who headed the ball good," said Grace. "We'll Lyons, who has been sidelined Classic. The Irish will face Loyola's Rich Drab kicked in a in for the score. score a lot of goals and keep it by a injury to his lower left leg, Maine Saturday and the host loose ball in front of the Irish The Irish got a repreieve on exciting. But we have to also played the second half. Grace Leopards Sunday. 
Volleyball 

Women top IUSB 
starts year 
in first game ever
against IU 
Soccer team wins first varsity game 
By GREG SCHECKEN­BACH By COLLEEN men's varsity soccer team. Sports Writer HENNESSEY "It feels great. It's an honor Sports Writer just to be on the team," said
Once again, the time has 
Suba, who comes to the squad come for jump serves, great In an historic moment in after a year with Farley's In­digs and overpowering spikes. 

Notre Dame athletics, the Irish terhall team. "We have a lot of
This means volleyball, Notre women's varsity soccer team fun out there."
Dame style. 

scored a victory over Indiana The third goal of the game,The Irish women open their University-South Bend 5-1 at 38: 11 of the first half, put the season against state rival In­Thursday in its first game at Irish ahead for the first timediana Saturday night at 7:30 in varsity status. 2-1. Junior Joy Sisolak knocked 
the Joyce ACC Arena. 

"I'm just happy to have that the ball into the goal after a
The Irish move from the Pit first one under the belt," said scramble in front of the cage.this season to the arena, which Irish coach Dennis Grace, Susan Haling recorded the as­
has a much larger seating whose squad gained varsity sist.
capacity. Admission is $1. 

status last spring. Notre Dame added insurance Saturday's match will mark 
IUSB started the scoring with one minute remaining inthe season-opener for both 
with a goal at 25:07 of the first the half. Sisolak fed the ball toschools, but the intrastate half when Cathy Blum picked freshman forward Susan Zil­rivals both sport veteran up a loose ball in the Notre vitis, who scored to give the
lineups. Indiana returns four Dame penalty area and beat Irish a 3-1 lead. 
starters from last season's 20­
Irish goalkeeper Kelly The second half saw the in­13 team, including outside hit­McCrystal. troduction of freshman Karna 
ter Liz Armbrustmacher, Notre Dame responded Spencer in goal, who held hermiddle blocker Julie Goedde, 
seven minutes later as sopho­own with several key savesoutside hitter Lisa John and set­more forward Mimi Suba took against a sporadic Lady Titan 
ter Joy Jordan. 

advantage of a misplayed offense. The Irish defense, ledIndiana defeated Notre IUSB back pass and slammed by freshman sweeper MollyDame, 15-13, 13-15, 8-15, 11-15 in the ball into the net. The goal Lennon, remained largely un­
last season's only match be-tied the score and put Suba's tested throughout the game. name in the record books with 
see HOOSIERS, page 13 

the first-ever goal for the wo-see SOCCER, page 14 


Irish feeling the heat in pre-Michigan drills 
In eight days, the Irish football team opens the ready to play one of the top football teams in the ball team." 1988 season under the lights at Notre Dame country," said guard Tim Grunhard, a member Grunhard agreed. Stadium. As game day approaches, however, the of the offensive line, which has been under more "Mother Mary's going to be watching over us only thing the Irish are under is a lot of heat. heat than any other unit on the team. "We expect (today), and I think she's going to throw her bless­
"You're mush," yells a defensive coach at his it at this point. There's not much time left. ing on us and give us Saturday off after what we're players after Irish tailback Mark Green pops "When we're playing against each other, there's going to go through," the junior said. "When it's through a hole for a seven-yard gain. "What's Mic­got to be a winner and a loser on every play. over, we can start saving it up for that one big higan going to do to you guys?" There's always one side that could have done bet­blast against Michigan. I think a lot of people will 
Then the defense comes up big, as nose tackle ter on that play. But when we hit Michigan, the be surprised at the way we'll come out in that Chris Zorich bursts into the offensive backfield winners have to have the golden helmets on. We're game." and throws a back for a three-yard loss. 
"When are you men going to start playing some 
•••football," one of the offensive coaches hollers at Marty the offensive line. "Michigan's defense is twice A TOUGH DECISION: The schedule-makers the size of the people you're letting through!" Strasen have given Notre Dame fans a tough choice for 
There's no winning on the practice field these Saturday night sports entertainment. days, even though Irish head coach Lou Holtz said The Irish volleyball team opens its season at
Sports Editor

he has been very pleased with some of his team's 7:30 p.m. in the JACC against a tough Indiana recent workouts. squad. Art Lambert's team is coming off consecu­
It's often difficult for an onlooker to determine getting tired of hitting each other.'' tive 30-win seasons and looks to avenge last year's what kind of progress a team is making from But if the Irish were tired of beating up on each 13-15, 15-13, 15-8, 15-11loss to the Hoosiers. watching the players go at each other. But it's other before this afternoon's closed scrimmage in On the other hand, Notre Dame fans might want easy to see that something is happening on the Notre Dame Stadium, chances are they'll really to take advantage of the opportunity to yell fields behind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation be spent after it's over. Holtz is not even allowing obscenities at Jimmy Johnson and the Miami foot­Center that is worth noting. the media into this one. ball team as the Hurricanes take on No. 1 Florida 
There's an urgency in every play. You can feel Don't be surprised if you hear it from the dining State at 8 p.m. on WSBT-22. Miami did not lose a 
it. hall or your dorm room. game last season, so it should be fun watching the And you certainly can hear it. "We're going to be there for awhile," Holtz said. defending national champs get off to an 0-1 start "What the coaches are trying to do is get us "But when we come out, we're going to be a foot-in 1988. 
~--------------~----------------------~ 
r 









