
-~­
/ACCENT:  The Whip  Rain of terror Cloudy today, sprinkles, high  
in the upper 30s. Becoming  
[VIEWPOINT: Remembering  M.L.  King  windy tomorrow with a 70 per­cent chance of rain. High in the upper 30s.  



MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 1988
VOL. XXI, NO. 70 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Rezoning proposal may limit housing 
By GREG LUCAS The implementation of the order for the proposal to be ap­it, they are discriminating a member of the Neighborhood Senior Staff Reporter proposal, which calls for a proved by City Council, the against the students," said Housing Services Board of rezoning of the area roughly area slated for rezoning will James Anastos, a resident who Directors, the initiative for the 
Discussion is intensifying on bounded between Hill Street have to be reduced along with is considering purchasing land proposal came from residents a controversial proposal that and Eddy and Corby and other concessions to business in the area. of the Northeast Neighborhood would rezone most of the area Madison, could limit the interests. Steve Wenc, off-campus who asked the NHS for support. 
in the Northeast Neighborhood amount of off-campus student Although the issue directlY. senator, said that he had dis­The NHS is a locally run or­and possibly restrict future off­housing that will be available involves off-campus students cussed the issue with a neigh­ganization that is affiliated na­campus housing. in the future, Puzzello said. and the University, there has borhood representative last tionally with many other pro­
Rezoning the neighborhood The impetus to rezone came been no student participation in Spring. He added, however, grams that work to improvefrom "B" residential to "A" primarily from residents who neighborhood meetings, accor­that he had not read the pro­deteriorating neighborhoods,residential would restrict fur­desired a greater sense of con­ding to Puzzello. "It would be posal or spoken with anyone Leone said. ther development of rental trol in their neighborhood, Puz­wonderful if we could get some recently about the plan to re­"I think it's helpful to have properties and commercial zello said. Business interest is student input," she said. zone. "I think it's something a mix of residents, renters and business, said Councilman Ann strongly opposed to the pro­"What they (supporters of that we have to take an interest students in a neighborhood,"Puzzello, who introduced the posal because it would limit in­rezoning) want to do is show in for our own protection,"proposal to the South Bend City vestment and speculation po­power and control over the stu­Wenc said. see ZONING, page 4 Council a few months ago. tential, she said, adding that in dent population. As far as I see According to Charles Leone, 
L '-l 3 charged with
... 

-25 OC break-ins 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO ins, Eyster said. Senior Staff Reporter The juveniles "would walk around the neighborhood at 
South Bend Police arrested night and see where the parties three juveniles during were. They knew they were Christmas break who Notre Dame students and confessed to 25 break-ins in the wouldn't be there on breaks," Northeast Neighborhood, the Eyster said. majority of which were homes The suspects chose student of Notre Dame students, a houses because of how the stu­police spokesman said. dents "flaunted" their weaun 
Two of the juveniles were and "the way they (the stu­caught during an attempted dents) treated the neighbor­burglary at 931 Notre Dame hood kids," Eyster added. Ave. on Dec. 23, Captain One of the juveniles told Patrick Cottrell said. Eyster they were passing a 
• 
Cpl. Gene Eyster had passed house where a party was going through the alley near the on and someone shouted racial house only minutes earlier slurs. The youths broke into the when he received a call about residence when the students , a break-in. He returned to the were on break. house and found a car parked The suspects knew "they in the backyard. One youth was (the students) all had stereos handing items out a window to and good clothes," Eyster said. a youth by the car, Eyster said. "If one had a radio, five had 
The Observer I Donald Pan
Anti-abortion activists A third juvenile at the scene radios," Eyster was told by one escaped, Eyster said. juvenile.
Freshman Lisa Monkman and Junior Randy Gallag­will be held this weekend in Washington D.C. 
The car they were using had One suspect told Eyster "I

her prepare a sign for a right to life march. The march 
been stolen, he added. don't feel bad because they get 
One of the juveniles then es­money from their parents and caped from the Parkview buy new stuff." The juvenilesJuvenile Detention Center, broke into some residences 
Eyster said, but was recap­several times, Eyster said. tured along with the third The juveniles would sell the juvenile in a stolen car after stolen items immediately or 
2 freshmen yet to be housed 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR Christmas break, according to openings that come about another burglary. throw the items away, EysterStaff Reporter the Office of Student through academic deficiency One juvenile confessed to 18 said.
Residences. This year, al­and disciplinary actions, which break-ins, and a second In some instances theOnly two Notre Dame fresh­though dozens of students were are rare in the spring semester, juvenile admitted to an addi­juveniles would go to parties at men remain assigned to tem­relocated into permanent said Lardner. 
tional seven burglaries and student houses wearing clothes porary housing --down from housing over break, not enough stealing the two cars, Eyster they had stolen from the home, 201 at the beginning of last se­empty beds existed to accomo­The University department added. 
he said.

mester. date all of them. responsible for the. large dis­The two also implicated an­The Office of Student Lardner cited the cancella­crepancy between the number other two juveniles and an 18 see THEFT, page 3Residences reported Friday tion of this semester's of admitted freshmen and the year-old in some of the break-that four freshmen remain~d in Jerusalem program and the number of available beds is the 
a study lounge in Grace Hall.  tendency of  more  upperclas­ Central  University  Adminis­ 
Of these, two  were  moved to  smen to live on campus during  tration, according to Director  
permanent  housing  within  their years at Notre Dame as  of Undergraduate Admissions  
Grace  over  the  weekend,  contributing  to  this  year's  Kevin Rooney.  Said Rooney,  
leaving Jack  MacMullen  anc  acute housing shortage.  "The University asks the Ad­ 
Rick Pelliccio the final two stu­ Nine beds for male students  missions Office to bring in  a  
dents at Notre Dame without a  should have become available  class of a particular size." The  
permanent address, according  with  the  departure of  Notre  fact that so many freshmen are  
to Father Gerald Lardner, rec­ Dame students for Jerusalem,  relegated to study lounges is  
tor of Grace Hall.  said  the  Office  of  Student  just  an  "unavoidable  conse­ 
In previous years, all fresh­ Residences. With the cancella­ quence"  of  the  University  
men have been moved to per­ tion of the program, however,  policy guaranteeing housing to  
manent housing by or during  freshmen must wait for room  upperclassmen, he said.  

New rules announced 
Special to The Observer cient snow removal. The 
guidelines require that stu­
Special parking regula­dent vehicles must be tions are in effect during the removed from all fac­winter months, according to ulty/Staff parking lots before Notre Dame Security. 12 midnight each night from 
These rules, which are in now until March 15. effect from Jan. 1 to March This regulation also ap­15, have been implemented 
see PARKING, page 4
to facilitate quick and effi­

page 2 The Observer Monday, January 18, 1988 



In Brief ­
F -16 warplanes will be withdrawn by the United States from a base near Madrid within three years. The U.S. ~ust begin hunting for another allied country where the Jets can be based. Spain insisted on the withdrawal of the force, the largest one of its kind in southern Europe. U.S. officials speaking on condition of anonymity said there were no assurances another NATO country would take the wing. Pentagon officials were bluntly pessimistic and said the wing would probably have to be re-based in the United States, adding to the deployment time if a crisis occurred. -Associated Press 
Post offices around the country will have to close an average of a half-day per week as part of the U.S. Postal Service's plan to cut $160 million from its fiscal 1988 budget, officials said Friday. It will be up to the local postmasters to decide what hours to close, the service said. The cuts are not expected to affect regular mail deliveries. The postal service has been ordered to trim $430 million from its operating budget in the next 21 months. It also is scrapping or deferring $1.7 billion of a planned $2.3 billion in capital projects this year to comply with other cuts enacted by Congress. -Associated Press 

·Of •Interest 
Keenan Revue tickets will be distributed Friday. Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 3 p.m. inside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Saint Mary's students may pick up tickets at the O'Laughlin Auditorium box office beginning at 6 p.m. At both locations, no lines may be formed until one hour prior to distribution. The tickets are free, and the Revue will be held on Jan. 28, 29, and 30. 
-The Observer 
On-Campus interviewing tips will be the topic of a presentation given this afternoon by Lois Kress, per­sonnel manager for the South Bend office of the legal firm Coopers and Lybrand. The presentation is sponsored by Career and Placement Services and will be held in the Hesburgh Library Lounge from 4 to 5 p.m. Students of all majors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Freshmen ski trip sign-ups for the trip to Sugarloaf will be today through Wednesday afternoon-t>etw.een 2 and 4 in Room 214 on the LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
BCAF Talent Show: If interested, have all acts ready by Tuesday, Jan. 26. Please contact: Agnes or Tracy at 283-4072, 204 Farley or Carla at 283-4380, 840 Pasquerilla East. -The Observer 
The Juggler Art and Literary Magazine will be distributed Tuesday, Jan.19 and Wednesday, Jan. 20 from 12 to 1 p.m. in LaFortune, 1 to 4 p.m. in the Great Hall in O'Shaughnessey, and 7 to 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library entrance. -The Observer 
A lecture on "The Prisoners' Dilemma and Education Policy" by Tyll van Geel, professor of law at the University of Rochester, will be held Tuesday in Room 121 Law School. 
-The Observer 
-~e-Obse.~~er-­
--=-l.-=ll ----.a.~•~ --­
Design Editor ......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor ...... Kathy Scarbeck Design Assistant ................ Alison Cocks Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg Ty~esetters........................ Mic~ael B~c Business Editor... .............. Steve Claeys 
.....: ..................................... Darnel Cahill News Editor:.... .. ...... Chris Julka Business Layout.. ...... Heidi Traxler Copy Editor.. .. ................ Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editor ........ Elizabeth Cornwell Sports Copy Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock Photographer ............ Mike Moran 
'he o..ner (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. 'he 0'-"'er is published by the students of the University or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed ror $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing 'he o..ner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Iodiana 46556. 
'he o..ner is a member of 'he Allodated Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Ethics more another 
Newsweek boldly proclaimed that "Greed" is no longer in fashion and implied that "Et­hics" are now in vogue. 
Most of us probably missed the change, caught up instead in the mounting tensions in the Middle East, the economic uncertainties, the latest antics of Gary Hart or the crucial negotiations in the Notre Dame food fight. 
What would we have done if Newsweek had not brought the change to our attention with their cover story Jan. 4, so that we could change our lifestyles? 
Isn't it amazing that almost instantly we have changed our values to the simpler life--straying away from our dreams of owning a BMW to something more like a Chevette? Opting for diner food instead of a five-star restaurant? 
Newsweek proclaims an end to extravagance, "Dallas" and "Dynasty," yuppies, the fitness craze, and other trends of the 1980s. They wel­come .in "couch potatos" and video rentals. In­stead of Ivan Boesky proclaiming "greed is good," Newsweek counters with "fat is good." 
The comparison of greed to fitness is what bothers me most. The authors of the article seem to assume that just as trends come and go, so do values. 
Newsweek is correct in asserting that another set of trends is emerging for the latter part of the decade. After all, trends come and go, as evidenced by the small quantities of hula hoops and pet rocks bought recently. 

Newsweek is incorrect, however, in assuming that values are as easily changed as trends. While movies like "Wall Street" can make even the most fervent business major reflect on the question "How much is enough?" the.feelings of "greed" go deeper than a movie or feature story can penetrate. 
Trends are related to our way of living, and therefore our value system; they are not one and the same. If living a simpler life becomes the trend, it is no better than someone living extravagantly. The pressure to do what is "in style," to keep with the neighbors, is still pres­ent. 
I do not mean to say that trends are inherently bad for society. Trends keep us looking for something different, something exciting. As times change, we are going to have different preferences, of course, perhaps enough for magazines to be able to proclaim sweeping changes about the decade being over. 
But this is the superficial side of the story. What about the proclamation that greed (as defined in the worst sense of the word) is dead? 
Newsweek really has two articles about the decade, the superficial and the serious. A survey done by The Gallup Organization and Newsweek to complement the article repor-

Scott Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 

tedly shows that Americans are down on greed . and are spending more time with charities. These results are encouraging, and I hope ac­
curate. 
Nothing would be better than for Newsweek's prediction that "ethics" are the "in thing" to become true. The last thing we need is for "greed" to conquer ethics. But we have to be careful about sweeping generalizations. 
Eighty percent of the people surveyed felt Wall Street was more "greedy" than five years ago. Is this because of the increased publicity and media coverage, however, or because there is a real perception that greed is more ram­pant? Further, there is the perception that greed is present, but will this translate into fu­ture preventative measures? 
The Gallup poll shows 49 percent of the public surveyed is involved in some type of charity or social service activity. The article used the sur­vey to indicate that social concern was "in." But the real encouraging news is that this fig­ure has been rising steadily since 1982, right through the "greed" decade which Newsweek characterized. The same is true in the number of students in social work. The "sudden change" in developing a more concerned soci­ety has been in motion for five years. 

Newsweek is right on target in ushering out the stylish margarita. Trends do happen over­night. However, only time will tell whether we have really changed the values by which we live. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~~~:~·:~-~~~ffi~~~~~~~=:·~~;;·~~·;·~p 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and wrsh her a happy one. By the way Laura,we do expect to see you dancing
II II LaFortune.
on pool tables tonrght 

YLpp[ications are now being accepted for rrlie Observer's 
Editor-in-Chief, 1988-1989 
f/Lnyone who is interesteti in app{ying sfwu{ti suhmit a resume anti persona{ statement of no nwre tlian 5 pages to Xg,vin 13ecl(g_r. fiLppfications are tiue hy 5 p.m., ![riaay, January 22, 1987. 


than just trend 
L_______________________________________________________________________________________ ___ 
j 
Monday, January 18, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
More slain with onset of Philippine elections 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -Gun­men killed a gubernatorial can­didate hours before polls opened today for regional elec­tions, raising the number of people slain to at least 84 in a bloody six-week campaign. 
Officials said seven other people were killed in three sep­arate grenade attacks Sunday, but it was not known if five of those deaths were election related. 
At least 38 of those killed were candidates, according to a statement Monday by the Philippine Constabulary, the government's internal security force. 
President Corazon Aquino appealed Sunday for "peaceful and honest" regional elections. The military chief ordered sol­diers on alert for a possible right-wing attempt to disrupt the balloting. 
Aquino issued the appeal on the eve of nationwide elections the government said would res­tore full democracy to the country 22 months after a 
civilian-military  uprising  
ousted  President  Ferdinand  
Marcos.  

The military blames commu­nist rebels for about half the killings during the campaign, but media commentators say rival political factions were re­sponsible for most of the deaths. 
The campaign has been the bloodiest and most intense of three elections since Aquino as­sumed office, with voting postponed in 10 of the country's 73 provinces to prevent further bloodshed. 
The rebels have acknowl­edged killing some candidates and admitted selling permits to enable others to campaign un­molested in rebel-controlled areas. 
In a television statement, the president urged voters to sup­port candidates "who think 
only of serving the Filipino people." 
"Let's do our best to have a peaceful and honest election," she added. "I would like to ap­peal to the candidates not to forget their responsibilities to the Filipino people and not to use force and that they should serve the people first, not their own self-interest." 
The 54-year-old president 
was scheduled to attend a final 
political rally at the suburban 
Marikina district Sunday. 

Means of payment to be settled for $1,400 food fight bill 
By KATIE KEARNEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Nearly four months after the food fight following the Mic­
lligan game, uncertainty over the status of the $1,400 bill for damages still remains. 
As far as how the damages will be paid, "the whole issue has been settled," said Student Body President Pat Cooke. Ac­cording to Cooke, student gov­ernment officers are working on a plan in which the dining halls would either serve a simple meal one day or refrain from serving dessert for one day in order to compensate for the damages. 
"Technically we are not paying for the bill with any stu­dent money outright," he said. "We want to deal with this in the most painless way possi­ble." 
The exact details for the im­
plementation  of  this  plan,  
however,  still  remain  to  be  
worked out.  

"We are going to sit down with Mr. Hickey (director of 

Theft 
continued from page 1 
The police drove the suspects around the neighborhood and had them point out the homes they had broken into, he noted. 
"They (the juveniles) knew 
where  every  student  ho\Vle  
was," Eyster said.  
The  juveniles would  throw  

rocks and nickels at the residence's windows to see if anyone was home, Eyster said. 
Food Services) this week and figure out exactly how much food to cut back to cover the bill," Cooke said. 
"It looks like dessert will most likely be forfeited for one day," said Laurie Bink, student body vice president. 
Bink expressed the desire to resolve the issue quickly. "It's time to make a decision about 
If  no  one  came  out,  the  
juveniles  would  enter  the  
home.  

The suspects avoided enter­ing houses when someone was home because "that's Crimes­topper stuff," a suspect told Eyster. 
Since the apprehension of the six suspects there has been a marked dropoff in break-ins, Eyster said. 
"The burglaries have dropped off dramatically. We used to have eight to 10 a day, the bill and move on," she said. 
The food fight occurred Sept. 12 in both dining halls following the Michigan-Notre Dame game. Approximately 800 stu­dents participated in the fight that prompted Hickey to cancel picnics and special dinners for the fall semester. The question of who should pay for the food fight damages has remained the subject of Student Senate discussion since then. 

now we have one every other day," he said. 
Directed patrols in the area, especially the Five Points, were increased after the high number of break-ins over the Thanksgiving break, Cottrell said. 
The Fourth Detail, which was responsible for the arrest, consisted of six officers, two 
undercover  and  four  uni­ 
formed,  who  specifically  
patrolled  student  residences,  
Eyster noted.  

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Ad Design Manager 
Applications due Tues., January 19 at the Observer Office 
For further information contact Molly Killen at The Observer (238-5303) 
= •
i -o.-Je ~, ~'=' .~.,~,,~Q,, .~'ol 
§ .. ""'eX\ .c~e eNe~ ~eu ?J.(\0. ~e\ " 
~ 'l~ ~ ~G Y\0 
~.unnnnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfnllmmmmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~llimmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllli'! 

Fr. j~ti!JCS 13unci1aell, C.S.C 
directed by 
January 29-31 (noon) 
----------when -----------­Crowe's House, I\1ichigan 
where 

Can1pus Ministry 
0MPUS
contact 


MINISTRY
and at 
___ Unlve!11Ty or No1r11 Comt Noire Domt. IN •6556

Sponsored by SUB the door 

-Live at Stepan Center Saturday, January 23 8:00pm $3.00 -available at The Cellar 

[ 
~ page 4 The Observer Monday, January 18, 1988 
~ 
f 
--~ ~~­



Judge prevents 
Security Beat
Gaza expulsions 

Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -A Supreme Court judge Sunday blocked the deportation of Palestinians accused of fomenting anti­Israeli unrest in the occupied Gaza Strip. 
Judge Shlomo Levin issued the temporary injunction as military authorities reported a lull in the six-week wave of vio­lence in Gaza and scattered in­cidents in the occupied West Bank. 
Leaders of two Gaza refugee camps appealed to the army to ease curfews imposed on their communities and to free detainees, but were told that or­der must first be restored. At least partial curfews were in effect in about half the ter­ritories' refugee camps. 

Cabinet members criticized authorities over the presence of armed police on the Temple Mount, Islam's third holiest shrine, during violent demonstrations in Jerusalem on Friday. 
Levin said Mohammed Abu Samra, 26, Freij al Kheiri, 39, Hassan Abu Shaqra, 37, and Khalil Quqa, 39, were allowed to stay in the Gaza Strip until the army shows the SUpreme 


Zoning 
continued from page 1 

Leone said. "The whole idea behind re-zoning is to stabilize things as they are," Leone said, claiming that rezoning the neighborhood would not elimi­nate opportunity for student housing in the future. 
Leone ,explained that a grandfather clause in the pro­posal would allow properties that are currently being used for rental purposes to continue in that capacity until the residence is either left vacant for a year or converted to a single family dwelling. 
Leone said that the increased sense of neighborhood stability that re-zoning would foster would create incentive for home improvements and addi­tions. He said that a simililar re-zoning plan was imple­mented in the near Northwest Neighborhood in 1978. 
According to Leone, more than 50 percent of the struc­tures in the Northwest neigh­borhood have seen some im­provements since 1978. Leone said that an estimated $5 mil­lion dollars was spent for im­provements by homeowners since the re-zoning. "This im­provement betrays a confi­dence in the neighborhood," Leone said. 
Anastos, whose father owns property in the area, said that 
he was against rezoning be-Court its reasons for ordering them deported. 

Such injunctions are com­mon, and are usually over­turned once the army's case has been heard. But Felicia Langer, the Palestinians' lawyer, said this time the gov­ernment might bow to interna­tional pressure and rescind the deportations. ' 
The military originally or­dered out four Palestinians from Gaza and five from the West Bank. Four West Bankers were deported to Lebanon last week after refusing to appeal their cases. 
Parking 
continued from page 1 

plies to the B-2 and the C-2 lot (east of Juniper Road). 
Parking and traffic regula­tions specify that vehicles parked in violation of the snow removal guidelines will be towed to the nearest available student parking lot and the registered owner shall be fined $25. 
The guidelines further specify that any vehicle may be towed from roadways, sidewalks, loading zones, time zones, and traffic circles during times of snow removal. 
Student parking lots will be plowed when passage becomes difficult or hazardous and the faculty;·staff lots have been cleared. Normally this will oc­cur 36 to 48 hours after a sig­nificant snowfall. Major snowstorms will delay this process. 
tudent Union Board presents: a lecture by THE HONORABLE SHIRLEY CHISHOLM "PROTEST, ORDER, AND JUSTICE'' 
Washington Hall Tuesday, January 19 8:00p.m. Tickets $2.00 ­available at The Cellar· 
Thursday, January 14 
5:17p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported that his bookbag and was stolen from the men's locker room in the Rockne Memorial. His loss is estimated at $130. 
9:30 p.m. A group of South Bend teenagers were caught entering campus illegally through St. Mary's gate. They were given a warning and released. 
Friday, January 15 
2:24a.m. Notre Dame Security as­sisted the Notre Dame Fire Depart­ment in the investigation of a small fire in Cavanaugh Hall. There were no injuries reported, and damage was minimal. 
11:25 a.m. An off campus student reported that his car was struck while parked in the C2 lot sometime between 9 and 11 a.m. Damage esti­mate is unknown. 
1:55 p.m. A Breen Phillips Hall res­ident reported that she lost her purse and contents in the west wing of the South Dining Hall. Her loss is esti-
When it becomes necessary to completely plow a student lot, all vehicles must be moved. Resident assistants will receive notice stating that spe­cific student lots are to be com­pletely cleared. The notice will direct RAs to request that stu­dents move vehicles from the lot to a designated lot before a given time. 
Students must remove their vehicles from the designated temporary lot within 24 hours or when their normal assigned lot is clear. Vehicles parked in violation of this section of the snow removal guidelines may be towed at owner's expense. 
Questions concerning these rules should be directed to the Security office. 
2:25 p.m. A university employee reported vandalism to her car while it was parked in Stephan parking lot sometime between 8 a.m. and 12 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $250. 
3:17 p.m. A South Bend resident reported that he lost his wallet in the Rockne Memorial sometime be­tween 10 and 11:30 a.m. His loss is estimated at $20. 
5:58 p.m. A Dillion Hall resident reported the theft of basketball tick­ets from his room sometime between 5 and 7 p.m. The same student also reported that cash was stolen from his unlocked room sometime be­tween 5 and 6:30p.m. His loss is es­timated at $83. 
9:30p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that a book was stolen from his room sometime during the after­noon on Jan. 13. His loss is estimated at $49. 
9:45p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that his books and radio were stolen from his room sometime during the afternoon on Jan. 13. His loss is estimated at $142. 
GO TOBING AT BENDIX WOODS TONIGHT 
meet at the Library Circle at 7 pm Costs $2 -covers transportation, hot chocolate, and use of the hill 
Sponsored by SUB 
Winterfest Winterfest Winterfest Winterfest 
COUNSELINE Volunteers Wanted!!! 
************* 
We'll begin operating again ·soon. We still have 2 hour shifts to fill. So if••• 
-Your want to help provide a valuable community service to NOOMC -You can spare just a couple of hours of easy volunteer work in a nice study environment (the number and manner of handling calls is rarely demanding) 
10 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that his books were stolen from his room sometime during the afternoon on Jan. 13. His loss is esti­mated at $72. 
10:05 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported that his books were stolen from his room sometime during the afternoon on Jan. 13. His loss is estimated at $134. 
10:10 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported that a book was stolen form his room sometime during the afternoon on Jan. 13. His loss is esti­mated at $49. 
Saturday, January 16 

6:46 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resi­dent reported vandalism to his car while it was parked in the D1 lot sometime between 1 a.m. and 4 p.m. Damage estimate is unknown. 
7 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re­ported the theft of clothing items from packages delivered to the mall­room in Lyons Hall. Her loss is esti­mated at $330. 
\.___.~ 
Monday, January 18, 1988 
The Observer 
~~~~~ 
~ 
I ~ 

!OFFICE OF 




~ 7\MPUS 

~ 
~ Lib.-..y Office: 239-6536 
~ Andre Leveille, CSC Director
§ 
Priscilla Wong Assistant Director § AnneScheu Secretary 
~ Badin Hall: 239-5242 
~ 
Pat McCabe, CSC Religious Education Steve Warner Music and Liturgy ]o Giarrante, OSF Retreat Services Bonaventure Scully, CFX 
Religious Bulletin Kathleen de Groot University Village.Tracey Sandman Marriage Preparation Carol Guenther Marriage Preparation
lHelen Bennett § 
Sacred Heart Church : 
t 
~ 
Daniel Jenky, CSC Tom Gaughan, CSC Dennis Meyers, <;:SC PegHouk 
Evelyn Tatay 
~ 
§ 
~ 
Secretary 
239-7091 
Rector Associate Rector Univ. Sacristan Secretary Sacristy Supplies 

!Mli111!-li$~ @ft 
Celebration 
-Coordination of music and liturgy for campus liturgical events -Sacramental mini!>try and pastoral care -Scheduling of sacramental celebrations for Sacred Heart Church, the Grotto, 
and the Log Chapel -Sacristy Supplies for residence halls -Support services for residence hall liturgies -Coordination of hall chapel renovations 

Education 
-Coordination of Marriage Preparation Program: 
-Coordination of Mar:·:..:.ge Enrichment Series: 
-What's the FuturP of ;his Relationship? 
A program for co><ples in serious relationships. 
-The Catholic Faith Series 
A campus-wide program presenting issues of the adult faith e, perience, held on Sundays & Tuesdays, 7-fJ:'J,Opm, Keenan/Stanford Chapel beginning Fel. 7th and 9th. 
-The Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA) 
•Engaged Retreat Weekends: Feb.19-20; Mar. 4-5; Apr. 15-16, 1988 
*Host Couple Program (Call Badin Office for details) 
Managing Conflict in Relationships: "How to Fight Fair" March 23rd, 1988 
7:30pm Keenan/Stanford Chapel 
February 27, Noon -5pm (Pre-register through the Badin Office) 
On Prayer Fr. John Dunne, CSC 
On the Church Sr. Regina Coli, CSJ 
On Scripture Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF 
On Sacramcnts Fr. Bob Kennedy 
On Morality Fr. Drew Christiansen, Sf 

A process of welcoming new members into the Catholic Church 
-Preparation for the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Religious education, services, and prayer 

Spirituality 
-Notre Dame Encounter (NDE) 
A weeke~~d retreat experience, 
guided by students, faculty & staff. 
-Campus-wide retreats: 
Hosted by members of the NO community 
-Residence Hall retreats: 
Support services, guidance and direction for individual halls 

Administration 
January 22-24,  March 25-27, 1988  
Jan. 29-31  Fr. Jim Burtchaell, CSC  
Feb. 12-14  Fr. John Dunne, CSC  


-Direction and administration of the Campus Ministry staff -Collaboration between University Administration, Sacred Heart Parish, & other campus departments -Coordination of budget, personnel and office operations, and special projects -Program communications and publicity 

Outreach 
-Outreach to University Village: Celebration of religious events & holidays Personal outreach, visitation, counseling, and social programming Information sharing, community resources, and advocacy 
-Publication of the Notre Dame Religious Bulletin 
Informing, inspiring, and enlightening the Notre Dame community concerning spiritual issues of our times 
-~-­

Monday, January 18, 1988
page 6 The Observer 
AIDS infant refused help 

The Observer I Donald Pan

Hogs on ice 
Holy Cross residents play hockey on St. Mary's Lake. With the recent warm weather, however, anyone who tries to play hockey on the lake will soon become fish food. 
~* * • DUKE,* • * ¥
• ..... * 1' ..... 
HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY 
• .,_ • TO*AMERICA'S 
* FAVORITE SON! •* 
1' i' lt *•
i' ._ • Love, ~ 11 • *Your Fan Club 
* 

$urt' ~ 




KAPLANf 
')TANlJY H KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTEIHTD DONT COMPETE WlTH A KAPLAN S11JDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466}7 
Phone 219/272-41}~ 

GRE GAfAT NCLEX•RN 
Associated Press 
ANNAPOLIS, Calif. -A refusal by volunteer firefighters to help a baby with AIDS at a monastery that cares for unwanted infants has left residents of this rugged coastal town wrestling with questions of compassion, communicable disease and fear. · 
"Some are lining up behind the fire department, and some are lining up behind Starcross 
(Monastery),"  said Sonoma  
County  Supervisor  Ernie  
Carpenter.  

Although the Annapolis Fire Department agreed last week to respond to such calls in the future, one firefighter quit, saying he was frightened be­cause he had not been trained to deal with victims of acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
Monastery leaders say the in­cident has fanned hostility that has flared occasionally since Starcross began accepting AIDS-stricken babies a year ago in this rural community about 100 miles north of San Francisco. 

People are angry that firefighters did not respond, "but again they blame Starcross for not being ready for their own emergency," said Rae Brodjeski, a 21-year resi­dent of Annapolis. 
On the night of Dec. 21, workers at Starcross dialed 911 to report that 1-year-old Aaron appeared to be choking. 
The county fire dispatcher radioed the Annapolis Volun­teer Fire Brigade. When they declined to respond, the fir.e crew in Sea Ranch, about 15 minutes away, was called. 
The Sea Ranch crew ad­ministered oxygen to the baby, who was taken to a hospital about 30 miles away and died of pneumonia two days later. Authorities said Aaron's death was not due to delays in medi­cal treatment. 
Delbert Thyarks, an 11-year 
veteran of the fire department, 
said he declined to answer the 
Starcross call because he 




PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 


FRANCE WEST AFRICA ITALY GREAT BRITAIN JAPAN ISRAEL NEW YORK 
International programs are offered for students, teachers and working professionals. Courses include: archaeology. architectural history. art history, ceramics, decorative arts. drawing, fashion. fiber, metal and surface design, graphic design, painting and photography. Undergraduate and gradu­atecreditsareavailabletoqualifiedstudents. Programs for high school students and June graduates are available in Paris, Israel and New York. For more information, please mail the coupon below or call the Parsons Office of Special Programs: (2U) 741-8975. 
P'drsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs. 
Name ---------------­
Address 
____State ·____ZipCity 
hadn't been trained in emer­gency medical care or AIDS, and now he feels angry, misun­derstood, misquoted, and he's quitting. 
"I said I wasn't going there, and I meant it," he said. "If I had the proper training and knew more about the AIDS virus, maybe it would be dif­ferent. I don't know that much about it, and I'm scared." 
Thyarks' 19-year-old son, Robert, recently became chief of the two~engine department. He said the only member of the volunteer squad who has had the training to deal with the AIDS baby was away the night of the call. 
According to Mike Cahill, the 
county's director of fire ser­
vices, Annapolis volunteers 
refused to participate in a 
county-sponsored AIDS train-

MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu· dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we otTer you a special discount. 
New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
• 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
• 
•
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced 
• 
gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
*call for details about your discount 
277-~731 
models and clubhouse open daily 
------------------------------~--~~-------­
Viewpoint
Monday, January 18, 1988 
page 7 
How we 
For 24 hours, America will honor the memory of a black American. For 24 hours, America will remember the dream of the grandson of a former slave. For 24 hours, January 18, 1988, America will respect the vision of a man of ebony--a man who would lead a nonviolent army of love and brother­hood and bring a birth of freedom to America. For 24 hours, America will pay homage to the light that was Martin Luther King Jr. 
Marty Rodgers 
guest column 
Today millions of Americans do not have to work and will find the national holiday a perfect opportunity to rest and relax. And today we here at Notre Dame will go through the routine of at­tending classes and calmly try to get back into the study groove. But today is a day neither for relaxation nor calm­ness, rather it is a day which beckons reflection and action and a day on which we must ask ourselves some troublesome and haunting questions. 
Perhaps indeed these reflective ques­tions and the implications of the to these questions are the very purpose of this holiday: How far have we come since King? Is his dream being actualized? 


can best 
Has this nation risen up and lived out the true meaning of its creed that all men are created equal? What have I done personally to help the poor and the oppressed, to bring about peace, to erase the stain of prejudice and to over­come ignorance? 
King said of his dream that we shall know when it has been realized because "the jangling discords of our nation will be transformed into a beautiful sym­phony of brotherhood and men everywhere will know that America is truly the land of the truly free." Thus, I believe we will find upon our examina­tion of these questions and our intro­spection, that we are, regretfully, far from attaining King's dream as a na­tion and as a campus and so taday we are called to rededicate ourselves to the struggle. 
Today, we must also recognize the rich heritage and legacy of a people often forgotten and left out of our his­tory textbooks. We must recognize the many other black Americans who in a real sense laid a foundation and framework for King: Crispus Attucks who was the first American to die for our independence from the British; Benjamin Banneker, an internationally recognized scholar and "renaissance man" who could seemingly could do everything from astronomy to design-

remember King 
ing the city of Washington DC; the militant black "moses" who was Har­riet Tubman; the ambassador and abolitionist Frederick Douglass; Car­ver, Hale, Metzinger and many others who would pioneer numerous scientific discoveries ranging from the simplicity of peanut butter to the complexity of blood plasma; Booker T. Washington, DuBois and Garvey who would seek to raise their people through education and knowledge of their culture; and the plethora of heroes and heroines in ath­letics and the arts from the devastating fists of the "Brown Bomber" and the swift feet of Jesse Owens who together would make a mockery of Arian supremacy to Marian Anderson, Paul Robeson, Dunbar and Wheatley; fur­ther we must venerate those others who would give fire to the flames of the Civil R(ghts Movement--Malcolm and Medgar, Parks and Abernathy, Jackson and Young. 
Finally, today, we must give voice to the silent enslaved masses upon whose backs would be placed the burden of building a new nation which denied their humanity. We must pay tribute to the disenfranchised and oppressed masses whose blood and sweat would do often mix with the soil that its right of owner6hip changed--those who would give their lives so that today I and other blacks can vote and receive and edu­cation which is so often taken for granted. 
King said in a tape played at his fu­neral that he wanted to be remembered as a person "who tried to love some­
body"  and  who  "tried  to  serve  
humanity."  
Today,  we  can remember King by  

remembering those who came before him. Today, we can remember King by committing ourselves to peace and non­violence. Today, we can try to see each person as a brother and sister trying not to make assumptions based on race, color, or creed, but rather on each per­son's "content of character." Today, we can have "a dream" and have hope. Today, we as a nation and a campus can reflect on how far we have come and prepare for the long hard road we 
have yet to travel--allowing his life to inform us and his dream to sustain us. Today, we can dedicate our bodies and souls to fleshing out King's beatific vi­sion for a better America--to feeding the poor, clothing the naked, eradicat­ing injustice and interposition, and hearing the "beautiful symphony of brotherhood." Today, in memory of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we can "try and love somebody." 
Marty Rodgers is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
P.O. Box Q 
What does King day mean to ND? 
Dear Editor: 
I was recently discussing the Martin Luther King holiday with some fresh­men, both black and white, who live next door to me and facetiously com­mented that they planned to take the day off. This generated a discussion contrasting the government's official recognition of the holiday and the fail­ure of Notre Dame's administration to recognize it. 
Certainly, there is little controversy over the fact that the nationally recog­nized Presidents' Day is uncelebrated 
at  Notre Dame.  And the day off in  
celebration  of  Father  Malloy's  
"inauguration"  (indisputably  insig­ 

nificant in comparison to the achievements of our national heroes) 
Doonesbury 
could be defended as an event of special and exclusive significance to the com­munity of Notre Dame. But the issue does not seem so much to be whether or not the University honors the holiday with a day off, but what Martin Luther King, Jr. Day means (or at least should mean) to the administration and stu­dent body of Notre Dame. 
Will we (particularly, the majority) of Notre Dame remember the coura­geous and justice-loving spirit of the man who led the Mongomery bus strike of 1955, the 1965 March on Montgomery, and the March on Washington; who captivated and challenged the world with his Dream at the National Rally of 1963; whose leadership catalyzed the Voting Rights Act of 1965? Will the ad­ministration of Notre Dame resolve to pay special attention to the fact that a mere 2-4% of the student population is black, and that there are only four black members of the Notre Dame fac­ulty? Will the members of the student body try to make themselves aware of the fact that many of the black minority at this school often feel discriminated against (even if only subtly) and iso­lated in a predominantly white commu­nity? Will we, as a community, begin to address the many racist and sexist issues pertinent to us? For example, there is the fact that male students are charged for and given laundry service upon admission to the University, while female students must cut through red tape to receive the same treatment, and are, for the most part, ignorant of the fact that they are even eligible for the service. 
While discussing this issue with my neighbors, we agreed that Martin Lut­her King, Jr. Day should not be recog­nized (or, for that matter, taken off) solely because King was black or was so instrumental in the achievement of civil rights for blacks, but because he, like Washington and Lincoln, was a cou­rageous and justice-loving man, whose 
Garry Trudeau 
achievements were among the many great and liberating achievements of American heroes, black and otherwise. 
Tony Lawton Grace Hall January 15, 1988 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of peo­
ple  who  feel  t h e I r  
opinions  do  make  a  
difference.  Write  to  P.O.  

Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Quote of the Day 
"We must learn to live to­gether as brothers or per­ish together as fools." 
Martin Luther King (1929-1968) 



Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by lhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sam! Mary's College. It does nor necessanly reflect the pohcies of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther InStitution The News is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opimon of lhe majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. tellers and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available 10 all members of lhe school community, and the free expression of varying opmions on campus. lhrough reners. IS encouraged 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager .. .. .. .. .. .. ............. John Oxrider Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .............................................. Jim Ailey Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager .........................Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1988 



Accent 

Monday, January 18, 1988 
Soap update 
Skeletons in Alexis' closet on 'Dynasty' 
All My Children: Jackson Simone's parents discussed and Palmer erased the interracial marriage. Robin evidence against Travis. was left vulnerable to Grant's Travis,. however, unaware of scheme. Coming: A new this, resigned on TV. Erica victim for Putnam. suffered from fainting spells Guiding Light: Alex and and headaches. Phillip tried convincing Julie overheard Cecily Henry to vote for· the 
discuss a possible merger. Vanessa gave Henry pregnancy with Charlie, and her proxy. Sonni told Phillip broke up with him. Nina she'd get Josh to go along resented Pilar. Coming: with it. Alan transferred Reva Jeremy fears for Erica. to Phillip's office. Roxie Another World: Cass saved collapsed in Rusty's arms. Nicole from a fire. Nicole George got a job at was haunted by the memory Spaulding. Frank hired of her mother's suicide. Reg Rusty. Coming: What's gave Jason $5,000 in hush wrong with Roxie? money, but he didn't accept. Knots Landing: Abby fought Amanda considered back when Charles Scott's abortion. Adam offered Lisa wife crashed their romantic a job. Mitch and Felicia dinner. Mack feared for enjoyed a romantic trip to Meg's life when she started France. Coming: Reg having convulsions. becomes jealous of Jason. Meanwhile, the MacKenzies As The World Turns: Lily was were unaware that Greg was 
"The Whip" cut loose during last Saturday's performance. 
distraught when Holden said still at home and not on a business trip. Coming: Greg

'Th wh· ' t k. 
he still loves her. Andy keeps more secrets. 
Loving: Clay expolded when / . buddies. The wine cellar was Ava suggested that Rick found and Angus' headstone prove his claim with a blood test. Ava and Trisha noted 
e lp ge S crac ID~Q 1_ :c~~~~o~~~~i~:ri~~ng 

at Washl·ngton Hall ­
..--.+lllo... broken. Marge moved in 
~ with Tom. Lucinda was Clay's peculiar memory jelous of John's rapport with lapses. Jim met memory Susan. Coming: Paul's expert Carrie Davis. Over caught in the middle. Jack's objections, Stacey Dallas: Kimberly left Wilson planned a party for Lily. and demanded that J.R. Coming: Threats from an part from Sue Ellen. Sue unknown past.
MARK NEMEC though, I really started to feel I could. At one point, he talked 
Ellen and Nicholas mixed One Life To Live: Max accent writer was becoming stifled because about the Cotton Bowl. "Did business with pleasure. suspected that Rolo stabbedof my major and the tremen­you all see who I made fa· Bobby accosted an inflexible him. Tina donated blood to
P
eter Abowd, a senior electri­dous workload." As the show mous?" said Abowd, who works 
Lisa: save a baby she learned iscal engineerining student went along, however, it became as a trainer with the football Milagro (Michael). Larry
better known as "The Whip," obvious that much of Abowd's team. "Yeah, it was fun having Coming: Miss Ellie is let down. admitted to Max that the
brought his unique style of inspiration came from his Tim escort me out of the Days of Our Lives: Adrienne baby was adopted but the
music to Washington Hall Sat­freshman year. stadium," he continued, refer­
withheld news of her family eluded a search.
urday night. Abowd began his show by ring to his walk out of the Cot­
pregnancy after seeing Coming: Tina presses herAbowd's one man show was charging into Washington Hall ton Bowl with Tim Brown while case.
assisted by numerous digital with two escortS who were working as trainer during the Justin with an organized crime boss. Bill considered Ryan's Hope: After an
samplers, which are computers dressed like secret service game. "I've only seen it on unsuccessful attempt to
that can read music. The music men. As the concert developed, videotape about 200 times," he divorce. Jennifer realized was previously programmed, it became apparent that Abowd joked. Eve had taken her place with reconcile with Maeve, Frankie. Kim offered to Johnny moved in with
but then read "live" on stage. was very comfortable on stage. As the computerized music He liked to tell the audience Although Abowd gave an en­adopt Eve, only to be turned Dakota. Meanwhile, Roger 
down flat. Diana agreed to devised a new plant to trap
played, Abowd either sang with where he got the ideas for ergetic performance, he proved help Roman by returning to Dakota, with Dee's help.
the tune or added more instru­each of his songs. Much of that computers are not perfect. 
Victor. Roman shot Ed. After Dee fired her, Nancy
mentation on stage. Abowd's subject material. Many mistakes, including one Coming: Melissa protests her Don asked Dakota for a job,
"I started studying the drums which ranged from former on his opening song, plagued 
innocence. while cozying up to Johnwhen I was in fifth grade," said girlfriends to suicide, was taken his concert, but he waltzed Abowd in an interview before from experiences he'd had through them with a joke and a 
Dynasty: While Krystle tried Reid. Sherry used her finding skeletons in Alexis' influence to get Chaz a goodthe concert. "Then during high during his freshman year. smile. Much credit has to be school I moved on to the The music varied from touch­given to his family, who 
closet, Alexis hired a P.R. investment job. Coming: 
keyboards and started creating ing piano ballads to upbeat worked on everything from the expert to create a winning Nancy doesn't get her way. Santa Barbara: Hayley was
music on the samplers. During dance tunes. Abowd liked to lights to the mixing board. image. Sean vowed at his my freshman year here, interject humor where he Some of the highlights of the father's grave to make Alexis hit by a van and killed ,pay for his father's following the fund raiser.
night were the songs "Swollen 
self-destruction, and for Kelly discovered that Sophia
Eyes,'" written during his fresh­
what she did to his sister was responsible for the oil
man year. and "Romance," a Kirby. Leslie blackmailed rig disaster. Gina was
duet with his brother Greg. Probably the best song of the Sean after discovering his .jealous of Scott's friendship identity. Coming: Alexis with Kathleen. Mason forged
evening was "Balance" in which experiences family betrayal. documents which returned
his brother Dave accompanied Falcon Crest: Angela tried Brandon's custody to Gina.
him on guitar. As Abowd was about to start getting closer to Maggie and Andrea told Cain he reminds baby Michael during her of her father, a diplomatinto his tribute to Notre Dame football with "100 Years," a bat Richard's absence. Searching killed in the line of duty. for Vicki, Richard secured Coming: Scott reacts to
flew into the auditorium, star­
the reluctant help of political being deceived.
tling the audience. Abowd, real· 
bigwig ~adame Malec. The Young & The Restless:
izing what was happening, 
Melissa had trouble acting News of Steven and Ashley's
quipped,"lt's O.K. He knows 
sympathetically to early's wedding devastated Leannathe words." 
problems. Emma's kindness and Victor. Nikki overheard led her to become a target Victor's plan to fight for
Abowd plans to continue 
again. Coming: Richard to Victoria's custody. Cricket
writing music after graduation. 
the rescue. was hostile when her
He is thinking about attending 
General Hospital: Against mother, Jessica, came to
graduate school in communica­
Jake's advice, Bobbie let visit. Danny told Kay that
tion theory and possibly 
Scotty take over her Rex is his father.
making an album. With a little 
husband's practice.
more polish and precision, Tiffany fumed upon learning Coming: Jill insists that
"The Whip" could be stinging that Cheryl and Sean were Jessica stay. 
many more audiences in the business partners. Tom and 1988, McNaught Synd. 
Peter Abowd at the plano after a performance In Theodore's last year. future. 


__________________,___________________________________________________________________________ 





Business
Monday, January 18, 1988 
page 9 
Wall Street's perspective on October's stock crash 
By MICHAEL J. FAEH­NER Business Writer 
It will be remembered as the day which was not supposed to happen; Oct. 19, 1987 or Black Mondav. The Dow dropped a record 508 points in one trading day. Over 600 million shares of stock changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange. It is a day that will remain in the minds of many people. 
During all the hype of Black Monday the American public heard from a variety of indi­viduals, but notably absent from the coverage were many of the people who did the actual trading. 
After visiting the NYSE and interviewing many of the traders, one finds that the con­sensus of those who work on Wall Street is that the media only told the public half-truths. 
Many traders felt that the media didn't identify the proper issues and actually fur­ther propelled the crash. 
A broker said, "It was as busy as hell on that Monday. The only thing that was on anyone's mind was work." 
He added, though, that the whole day just kept snowball­ing into a disaster because the media added fuel to the fire. 
Gerald Cleary, a specialist for Agora Securities, Inc., said, "The media caused the panic, not Wall Street. They decided to build it up as a great media event. They wanted a crash just like 1929, well they got one. It was one of the closest times in trading history that firms al­most went bankrupt." 
John Tyrrel, also a specialist with Agora Securities, Inc., said, "The media interviewed the wrong people and focussed on the wrong issues. The real focus should have been the record volume of 600 milliion shares. Volume is even more important than an increasing or decreasing market." 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A record wave of U.S. exports helped narrow the nation's trade defi­cit to $13.2 billion in November, a 25 percent improvement over the month before, the govern­ment said Friday. 
The deficit, $4.4 billion smaller than October's record $17.6 bilion shortfall, was the best trade performance in seven months, the Commerce Department reported. 
Analysts credited recent declines in the value of the U.S. 
Many traders also faulted supposed experts of the mar­ket. A broker who wished not to be identified said, "Experts or supposed experts only are right 20 percent of the time. You never hear from them the other 80 percent of the time. Everybody said the market would crash, but no one hit it on the nose when it did. So all the experts are cheering how great they are." 
Several brokers, specialists and clerks felt that media coverage lacked a great deal of substance and detail. Two pressing issues which many traders felt the media ignored were the affects on the market­place by foreign investors and the changing ethics on Wall Street. 
A specialists said, "If foreig­ners ever decide to pull out of the stocks, the Great Depres­sion of 1929 and Black Monday will seem like a holiday." 
Other traders feel that more attention should have been given to a decline in ethics on Wall Street. 
A broker from a major brokerage firm was quoted as saying, "Your word was your bond in the old days, but its a changing marketplace. The main focus is making a quick buck and really 'giving' it to someone else. It's a sad day on Wall Street." 
Traders were quick to offer additional comments on what they felt was significant about Black Monday and what lies ahead for the stock market. 
The voltility of the market and the huge amount of work done on Black Monday was of­ten mentioned. 
Jerry Kryshtalsky, Vice President of floor operations for the NYSE stated, "Overall, people did a fabulous job. Squabbles and minor differ­ences went away. Everyone wanted to demonstrate that the NYSE is the premier market­place and a well-functioning machine." Pat Marchese, an 
dollar, making American goods cheaper abroad and im­ports more expensive, for much of the improvement. The dollar is now worth about half of its 1985 value against Japan­ese and key European cur­rencies. 
For the Reagan administra­tion, long searching for an elusive turnabout in trade ac­counts, the report was "good news by any test," said Com­merce Secretary C. William Verity. 
Pacing the trade improve­ment was a 9.4 percent surge EF Hutton trader and senior 
floor official said, "I don't think 
anybody in their wildest im­
agination could have predicted what happened. We didn't think we'd have 600 million share volume until1990." 
Many traders also felt that John Phelan, chairman and chief executive officer of the NYSE, should be compli­mented a great deal for his decisions to curb market activ­ities the days after the crash. 
Looking to the future, a spe­cialist said, "If I could make an investment and have it sit for six months, I sure would not have it in stocks right now." 
This statement was the most bearish quote of the day. Others were not as negative. 
A specialist's clerk said, "Just watch. We'll take a couple of little bangs here and there, but hang on. We're going up." 
A broker for Paine Webber said, "There is still a lot of bar­gains out there from the crash. Too many stocks are under­priced and this is a buyers fan­tasy." 
The media coverage of Black Monday apparently ignored the voice of those who were on the front lines; the traders, brokers, runners, etc. who make the market run. 
Another story missed by the media was the hard work and effort put forth by these people on what has to have been the most important day in the mar­ket's recent history. 
President Ronald Reagan said it best right after Black Monday in a message to the trading floor of the NYSE, "In the age of computers, we often fail to appreciate that the heart and soul of any endeavor is people. The floor clerks, the operators and processing per-


\ 
~\r 
\)Ul~ 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 

tive Clayton Yeutter. 
On the road again 
a The nation's automakers have posted good sales results for the past month and a half. Retail sales rose 0.7 percent in December due to strong auto sales. In addition, U.S. car­makers announced that sales during the first ten days of 1988 increased 17.1 percent from year-earlier levels. Light truck sales rose 31.8 percent during the same period. 
In order to maintain strong sales, some automakers are offering rebates. Ford reacted to General Motors' rebates by offering up to $1000 cash back on certain models. Included in the program are rebates for the hot-selling Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable. General Motors is offering up to $750 cash back on the Pontiac 6000, Bonneville, Fiero, Sunbird, and Grand Am models. The Oldsmobile division of GM is offering rebates on the Cutlass Ciera and Cutlass Calais models. The number three automaker, Chrysler, is offering rebates of up to $700 on certain vehicles. 
These rebates are available through the end of February. Although they may sound attractive, potential purchasers may want to wait for future incentives due to the condition of the industry. Further price cuts or rebates may be forthcoming. Ward's Automotive Reports revea1ed that the car industry is ailing from excess inventories. 
Wholihan and


c. e•
Murray 
,~·\ Business Briefs 
\.o~.W 
u The sales of the nearest Dominos' Pizza store were 
analyzed by five Notre Dame students. They found that 61.16 
percent of Dominos' sales went to Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. Alumni Hall leads the snarfing with the highest per 
capita consumption, .18 pizzas per person per week. The top 
three female dorms of both campuses are Saint Mary's 
dorms. The Notre Dame dorm with the lowest per capita 
pizza consumption is Sorin Hall. The contributing members 
to the study were Mike Thomas, Ramond Dumas, Joseph 
Dearie, Catherine Nonnenkamp, and Michael Murray. u Corona, a beer very popular among the nation's college students, has risen from nowhere to take third place among imported beers in the hearts and stomachs of beer lovers. If Corona's phenomenal growth continues, it should become the number one import by 1988. Sales have grown 168 percent and 82 percent in 1985 and 1\}86, respectively. The beer is one of the few imports that can compete in the Premium beer market, being nearly as smooth and light as Miller Highlife and Budwieser. It does not directly compete with imports such as Molson, Becks, Moosehead, and the number one im­port, Heineken, since these are Super Premium beers with a heavier taste and a smaller market of consumers. In ad­dition, no one can be expected to drink three or four Heineken in a row, whereas Corona is more consistent with the drinking habits of college students, a fact that insures the success of Corona. 
page 10 

Sports Briefs 
The fencing team defeated Penn, 15-12, Friday night. It was Coach Mike DeCicco's 600th career victory. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The hockey team defeated Army Saturday, 8-4. Mike McNeill recorded a hat trick to lead Notre Dame. The Irish are now 15-2-2 for the season. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
A WVFI sports staff meeting will be held tonight at 6:30p.m. at the station. All staff members and anyone interested in becoming a part of the staff are expected to attend. If you are unable to come to the meeting, call Sean or Jamey at 2266. -The Observer 
The women's softball team will have its first practice tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. at the Loftus Center. Anyone interested in trying out for the team should attend 
The Observer I Rob Regovich 
and bring insurance forms along. If you are unable to 
Jerry Durso and the Notre Dame wrestling team Megargee has the details below. 
come, call Barb at 4290 or TeiTi at 1260. -The Observer 
defeated Illinois State Saturday, 26-14. Steve 
Two new basketball courts are now available in the JACC. They are located by the ice arena and will be 
Wrestlers defeat Ill. State
available on a first-come, first-served basis during regular JACC hours. -The Observer 

by w1nn1ng 'must' matches
T~ TaeKwonDo Club will have its first meeting 
for the spring session tonight at 7 p.m. in the JACC fencing By STEVE MEGARGEE Massey left school for personal from those six guys again,"
gym. New memberS'Welcome, no experience necessary. Call Greg Barron at 2180 for more information. -The Ob­
Sports Writer reasons, leaving walk-on said McCann. "Clarion's al­senior football player Dom ways a Top 10 to Top 20 school. Midway through Notre Prinzivalli, who joined the Two years ago, they killed us. Dame's wrestling match with wrestling team during its win­They're going to have some 
server 
Varsity women's rowers who are going to Illinois State, the lights at the ter trip to Colorado, as the tough, streetfighting kids." 
participate in the spring season must attend a practice JACC Pit began to malfunction. heavyweight for the Irish ontomorrow at 8:30p.m. by the JACC track or they will not 
Minutes later, Notre Dame's Saturday. "He came rightbe placed on the final roster. -The Observer Chris Geneser dimmed any after the (Cotton) Bowl," said 
Defense
The water polo team will have a practice tomorrow chances the Redbirds had of McCann. "He met us in 
continued from page 16 
at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. New members are 
taking the match. Colorado Springs from Dal­welcome. Contact Tom Cashman (234-6727) or Marty Walls 
The 177-pound junior needed las." For the game, Syracuse shot (288-8732) if you can't attend. -The Observer 
less than two minutes to dis­The Irish also were suffering .303. 
pose of an outmanned Kevin from injuries to freshmen Todd Syracuse was hurt by injur­Sunmierville. Geneser's pin, Tomazic and Mark Gerardi. ies to key players. Captain coming 1:46 into the first Tomazic missed the match Felisha Legette has been out


Goal-line stands 
period, upped his individual with a shoulder injury, and since early in the season, and record to 15-2 and gave the Gerardi came up with a 6-3 win the Orangewomen lost the ser­
• 
Irish an insurmountable 26-7 in the 158-pound division in vices of Danene Hopson just

key_ Redskins w1n 
lead. Notre Dame (3-1) won the spite of an injury. before coming to Notre Dame. match by a final score of 26-14. "I was a little leery because "Hopson was one of their best Associated Press Chuck Nelsol,l's 18-yard field "Chris is a potential All­Gerardi was hurt really bad," players," said McGraw. "They goal that tied tM score 10-10 American," said Irish coach said McCann. "He wrestled never even got a chance to 
WASHINGTON-The Wash­with 10:06 to play. Fran McCann. "Guys like that really tentatively. If he was practice without her. Legetteington Redskins are headed for From there, the Redskins (Summerville) he's got to han­healthy, he'd have pinned the was probably their best player. their third Super Bowl in six went 70 yards in eight plays for dle, and he showeq a lot of guy. It's tough to have a schedule 
years, thanks to a defense that the winning TD pass by Wil­toughness in that match. He's like that, but they were pickedwasn't ready to settle for a liams, who had an awful day right on schedule." "We won the matches we had to win the Big East, and I still 
third straight overtime with and finished with nine comple­Geneser was far from the to win," McCann said. "We had think they're going to have a the Minnesota Vikings. tions in 26 attempts for 119 only standout on Notre Dame's to win with our six solid kids. great season." The Redskins beat the wild­yards. side Saturday night. Senior co­We had to have big scores from Despite the victory and its 
card Vikings 17-10 Sunday to Then they stopped the 
captain Ron Wisniewski re­those six people, and we did importance to the Irish,end Minnesota's shot at a fifth Vikings after they reached the corded a superior decision with from everyone except McGraw says her team still has Super Bowl. Redskins 6. Wade Wilson's a 23-8 win in the 142-pound divi­Gerardi.'' plenty to work on. 
And while the winning touch­fourth-down pass for Darrin sion, and 118-pound sophomore "We got sloppy toward the 
down came on a 7-yard touch­Nelson was deflected on the one Andy Radenbaugh, 134-pound Tomazic and Gerardi both end," she said. "We had some down pass from Doug Williams by Darrell Green. should be in action in this
junior co-captain Jerry Durso problems with the pressure, we 
to Gary Clark with 5: 15 left, it and 150-pound freshman Todd week's dual matches with Mic­turned the ball over. We was the defense that won the "We played zone on the last Layton all scored major deci­higan State and Clarion State. weren't always agressivegame with eight sacks and two play," Washington Coach Joe sions. The Irish go to Michigan State enough on offense." goal-line stands in the fourth Gibbs said. "We tried to mix it McCann acknowledged the on Thursday "and return home The Irish will try for a fourth quarter. up. We had blitz on them on Irish needed wins from those to face Clarion's Golden Eagles straight victory when they
The first stopped the Vikings second down and caught them six wrestlers if the Irish were on Friday. travel to Chicago to take on a on two straight shots from the real quick, and they threw the to defeat Illinois State (5-4). "For us to beat Michigan tough DePaul team on Wednes­
1 and forced them to settle for ball away." Freshman heavyweight Jeff State, we've got to have wins day. 

Tile'*-'-'NotAl Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, ..:cepts classified .tw.tlalng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile '*-'-'Saint Mery'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts cluslfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Dudllne for next-(jay cluslfieds Is 3 p.m. All cl&salfleds must 
Classifieds be prwpald, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ~perday. 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used FOUND: Thick gold necklace in Decio MACINTOSH BOOK EXTERNAL DISK Did you hear?
NOTICES 
books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block Faculty Hall lobby on Wednesday, Jan­DRIVE FOR SALE. CALL JOHN AT Christina Fallon off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30 uary 13th. Call Ted at 2387 to claim. WANTED 2093. 
turned 20 on Saturday! 
Happy Birthday! 
TYPING SERVICE 259-2334 HIRING I Government jobs • your area.
LOST: Gold add-a-bead necklace. 41TYPING 
$15,000-$68,000. Call (602) 838-8685, SUMMER JOBS7mm beads. Lost day before Christmas2n-8131 or 237-1849 
Ext. 6262. ALL LANDWATER SPORTS
TICKETS
break. If found call Chrisline at x4092. 
REWARD IIIII PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK DRIVERS NEEDED. START AT $3.75. MOUNTAINS 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; I NEED 1 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET
INSURANCE & BONUS PLAN. PART CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­
LOST/FOUND I
2n-1051 DAY. LOST --DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY TO THE KANSAS BASKETBALL GAME
TIME OR FULL TIME, EVENING INGS 914-381-4224 
DISK, SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1661.
HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON AT GOD­
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Found: basketball. Call Mark at X1400. OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON FATHER PIZZA, 52920 U.S. 31 N. 
Ham and cheese sandwiches, an apple.
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. II you can identify it, Ws yours. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD 
a bag of chips. 
Babyalttera n-to work per your
REWARD REWARD REWARD 
ach. for delightful 2 W yr. girl. Need PERSONALS ............... ........ ........................................ own tranap & like ca18. $2.50 plua hr. ATTENTION FORMER MALE TERRIE'S TYPING DID ANYBODY STEP ON, DANCE ON, HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE Word Processing, laser Printer, Close KICK, OR POSSIBLY FIND A PAIR OF The Steve Miller Fan Club is forming. NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga·
FOR RENT I ~~~:~~~~:................................................ 
to Campus. Resumes, letters, papers. GOLD RIMMED GLASSES AT Now that we know what Sorin's Assistant 
nize a Howard gathering during the hall 287·1283 socials after the JPW dinner. If you would
UNCLE'S, WEDNESDAY NIGHT? Rector really does, we're uniting to wor­PATRICK-1599 ship him. 
be interested in attending, and we know Doc Pierce's is hiring food and cocldail you will, call Kevin Walsh at X3609 and servers for parttime evenings.Must be ROOMA'TE NEEDED! NOTRE DAME A To the blond guy in the crew jacket at sign up. We need everybody signed up 
21.Apply 2-6pm.120 N. Main St. Mis· APTS. $125 MO. QUIETI PLEASE CON· 19n TOYOTA CELICA AUTO. GOOD the Commons Thursday · thanks! by January 27 and the sooner you sign hawaka LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT· TACT SAM DEPIZZOL AT 271-0804 CONDITION. GREAT COLLEGE CAR. up the better, so call now! Also, whenever 
L--------'_ FOR SALE
I I 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR,
lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE ASKING $1500 after 6 pm. 2n-9042 you see other Howard guys tell them 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
TYPING AVAILABLE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE about this. Thanks. 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.
287-4082 WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO ROOM FOR RENT IN 3 BEDROOM Ia II True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY TOWNHOUSE. SHARE KITCHEN, through the U.S. government? Get the Sell old texts for $$$. Pandoras--808
Apartmenllor rent at Campus View! For
TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I WASHER, DRYER. $16GMO ¢ 11.3 lacta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 
inlo call Dianna at 283-2676
Ride offerd IO CoiOH ~-1124 2n-4149 REALLY NEEDIIII UTILITIES. CALL 289-n23. 7318. 10.5:30. Also save $ on used books. 
I I 
L______________________________________________________________________ 

-----------~------------­
Monday, January 18, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
-
::'11----------·-··..•.. ...............,..:-:···:-·:·:·:--:-:·:--:···:·:-···.·..,..-......-·..ilifiMilllil........ _ilifiMilllil _______..:_.:.:·:·-:·:-:·-:·:·:-:iiili-:·:·:-·:-:·:-·:·:·:·-:·:-:·-:·:·:·:-·:·:·:-·:·:·:-·:·:·:·-:·:·:·-:·:·:·:-·:·:·:-·:·:·:·-:·:·:·-:·:·:·:-·:·:·:...:.:·:·.:···

·~·-·.·.·.-·.·.·.·-·· 

h Yhas Macintosh become the most 
popular computer among faculty and students in academia? 
Well, maybe it's because: 
You can get started right away sinee Macintosh™ js the easiest personal computer touse. ~~ 


"6·· 
You can use the most productive software for \vord processing, publishing, 
business, graphics, science, 

You can also comn1unicate \Vith other systcn1s like l)EC®, IBM® and Cyber®. 

0 
o' 

-~ m
%' 0 
15:7~ 
Although it comes with everything you need, you can expand your ,\1acintosh even further without giving up true portability. ~~--L..,. 

~ 





And as a fulltime student, faculty or staff n1ernber, you can buy one before 

Macintosh 
The power to be yolir l1est.~ 
For information contact '!be Notre Dame Computing Center 239-7177 . 


. : Appll" and t}v, Apple Logo a~ ~gl.!llr!'ed trademarks of Apple Compulrr, Inc. Macintosh i.s a trademark of Apple. :_ DEC IS regtstned traderrark of Disital Equ1pment Corporation. IBM i.s a regi.stered trademark of International Businr.ss Machines Corporation. Cy~r is a trademark of Control Data Corporation
1 
... ' . . . . :-:.:<.;-:.;.:.:.:.:.>:-:-:.;.:0:-:-:.:-:.:-:.;.;.:-:-;.;.:·:<·:-;.:-:.:-:.:-;.;.;.;.:0:-:.>:.;.:.;0:-:-:-:.:-.·:<·.·:·:·:-:.:-:·;.:.;.:-:·>:-:.;<·;.:.:-:.;.;.:.;.;.:-:·:·:-:-:·>;.:.;.:-:-: ... 

page 12 The Observer Monday, January 18, 1988 
Three-point shots were on beat us from the outside and 
Jan. 18'1 Aeeulta Notre Dame (71)display at the outset as each that's exactly what they did." DePaul 77, Notre Dame 71 M FG-A FT-A A F p
Demons 
team connected on four bombs Rivers led the Irish scoring DePaul (77) Connor 29 2-6 o-o 2 3 5continued from page 16 
in . the first 10 minutes of the again with 26 points, while Voce M FG-A FT-A A F p Voce 31 3-9 6-6 12 5 12 
Greene 32 4-8 1-2 1 3 10 Paddock 27 3-3 0-0 3 1 6
game. chipped ih 12 points and 12 Brundy 37 6-9 Q-2 6 3 12 Rivers 40 9-14 3-5 3 4 26pointer of the game to put the Sean Connor, starting in rebounds. Golden 20 1-3 2-2 3 3 4 Jackson 37 6-8 2-3 4 4 15 Demons ahead, 65-60. place of Mark Stevenson (toe And even though this 'day at Strickland 37 9-17 6-7 2 3 28 Fredrick 3 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
Edwards 38 9-12 1-2 4 3 20 Singleton 1 0-0 0-0 0 2 0
The visitors then looked as if injury), and Greene each hit the office' was anything but Laux 
14 1-1 0·0 1 1 3 Stevenson 15 1-3 2-2 0 1 4
they were willing to recipr-one, but Strickland and David easy for the Demons, Greene, Holland 17 0-0 0-0 -1 2 Ellery 2 0-1
0 0-0 0 0 0 ocate Notre Dame's Rivers, the co-winners of the DePaul's reigning prophet, felt Sowell 5 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Robinson 15 1-2 1-2 4 1 3 200 30-50 1Q-15 18 18 70 200 25-47 14-18 28 21 64
benevolence in the last meeting Wendell Smith Award as the he had called it well enough to between the two teams. In that outstanding players of the gloat a bit. After the final buz­FG Pet. -.600. FT Pet. -.667. Team 
FG Pet. -.532. FT Pet. -.778. Team game, the Irish turned the ball game, provided the real zer, he ran over to former rebounds -1. Turnovers -10. Assists -rebounds -b1. Turnovers -16. Assists • 21 (Strickland 6). Three-point goals -15(Rivers 6). Three-point goals -Rivers 5,
over numerous times and fireworks. Rivers was perfect DePaul head coach Ray Meyer 
Strickland 4, Greene, Edwards, Laux. Techni­Connor, Jackson. Technicals -none.
missed crucial free throws to in three attempts, while Strick­(who was broadcasting the cals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 36, DePaul 33. Of­enable DePaul to escape with land hit three-of-five to thwart game on radio) and shouted ficials -Steve Weimer, Steve Skiles, Sam 
a win in Chicago. Notre Dame's defensive strat-"See Coach, just like I told Ljckliter (Mid-American Conference). A 
11,418(cl.
Stan Brundy missed the front egy of giving up the outside you." end of a one-and-one twice, and shot to deny penetration. Greene and Edwards hit one-"It's a situation where·either IRISH ITEMS-Junior guard.tf!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!77!~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~ of-two opportunities to keep the you let them beat you outside Michael Smith will not rejoin .. Irish hopes alive. But mainly or let them beat you with the the team this season. Smith had because of Strickland, who penetration," said Notre Dame arthroscopic surgery to repair scored 28 points, the only head coach Digger Phelps. .torn cartilage and a partially­resemblance to the last "Greene, Edwards and Strick-torn ligament and it was hoped meeting was the winner. land are that good as perimeter he could return by February. 
A Gary Voce dunk that pulled players." The medical staff indicated NotreDametowithinthreeand "We knew Strickland could that "Smith's progress has a DePaul timeout revved up the hit from out there, but last been largely impeded by his Irish fans, but the junior point game their penetration hurt failure to adhere to a guard responded with a pull-up us," said guard Jamere Jack-prescribed rehabilitation pro­jumper in the lane and later hit son, who scored a career-high gram," according to a sports five-of-six pressure free throws 15 points. "We wanted them to information press release. 
in the final minute to deny the _,.....,..,...,..,..........,...,...,-.~.,-.~.,-.~.,._.._..,..,.._._,..... UGHI SUPP£ 12-­
Irish an opportunity to tie the game. 
The effort by Strickland and COME~ the Blue Demons' performance under pressure made Greene, who finished with 10 points, PN:
•• rJ <:/ 7-I0 
take a fresh outlook on the 
CSC FESTIVAL-2ND CHANCE. remainder of the season. * * r-Dl2. INVOLVEMENT IN STUDE
"I told Coach it was just 
going to be an easy day at the * Happy 22nd, office," said Greene with a con­tent smile. "Well, it sure wasn't 
* • ~. ~~:~:~~/) . 
easy, but we did it. This is 1'-Tammyewhere we turn it around. It's a 
' ·~ 5S<Nrtv l2# 
new season for us. We're 1-0. 
"After we lost the last two, people were down on us, but Coach Meyer stuck with us. We appreciate the way he treated Love *"Doc" 
TUESDAY.. At~ 1988..
us." 

• 






enour rattls to science. 
The Tl-95 PROCALCTM is our most powerful, wpofthe line advanced scientific with afull range ofscientific, mathematic, and 
-I 
statistical functions. It uses redefiruilile function keys to prooide easy access to functions with menu-like windows and has aflexible file maMgement system to conveniently stare programs and data. The TI-95 offers optional accessories such as Solid State Software "" cartridges, an BK constant memory cartridge, aportable printer
The Tl-60 Advanced Scientific features such built-in function.l as 
and cassette interface.
hexailecimaUoctal conversions, integration using Simpson's rule, statistics (incltuling linear regression), trend line aMlysis and metric to English con­versions. There are also 84 programming steps far repetitive calculations. 
No matter how hard your TI offers an easy solution. The calculators with the right built-in the calculators from the folks who've science, math or engineering Advanced Scientific calculators functions and programming capa­given their brains to science. from Texas Instruments. Each TI bilities to solve even the hardest
courses are, they're easier to take ©1988TI 
Advanced Scientific features large, problems. Maybe that's why more
with TI Advanced Scientifics. 
color-coded keys and a simple key· students rely on TI calculators than For all those excruciatingly hard board layout, making them easier any other brand. 
TEXAS.Ji}
problems you're about to encounter to use than any other scientific So if you're the kind of student in your math or science career, calculator. And we've packed our who's got science on the brain, get INSTRUMENTS 
"'Trademark of Texas Instruments Incorporated 
.·. Fwe software for the Tl-95. Visit your nearest Tl Dealer now! 


----------------------------------~-­
-----~-------­
Monday, January 18, 1988 
The Observer page 13 

Denver beats Browns, returns to Super, Bowl 
Associated Press 
DENVER -John Elway's third touchdown pass, a 20­yarder to Sammy Winder with 
4:01 to play, and a goal-line fumble by Cleveland lifted the Denver Broncos to a 38-33 vic­tory over the Browns Sunday and into their second straight Super Bowl. 
The Browns had rallied from an 18-point deficit to tie the score 31-31 but fumbled away 
February 19-21 $160 package cost includes: 
-Meals -Transportation Cardinal Coaches 
-LodginQ (Four to a room, indoor ana outdoor heated pools) -One free ski lesson for beginners -Lift tickets '" -(Hill has 20 runs including 8 beginner slopes and a vertical drop) 
Sign-ups begin Thursday, Jr .uary 14 
and will continue through Wedr ..:lSday, January 20. Sign-up between 2:00 and 4:00 in the freshman class office, 2nd floor LaFortune. the entire balance is due at the time you sign-up. Get your name and$$$ in quick. -~~~ 
Cut off is set at 80 students. "'-·­
on Jan. 31 in the Super Bowl. Byner fumbled. Byner was on The Broncos lost to Dallas in his way into the end zone when 1978 and the New York Giants he was stripped by Jeremiah last year in previous Super Castille, who recovered for the Bowl appearances. Broncos with 1:05 left. 
The last team to go to con-Denver .punter Mike Horan secutive Super Bowls was the ran out of the end zone for a Redskins in 1983 and '84. safety with eight seconds to 
The 75-yard drive was high-play, giving the Browns their lighted by a pair of 26-yard final two points. passes to rookie Ricky Nattiel. The Browns, who trailed 21-3 Denver's No.1 draft pick began at halftime and 28-10 in the the drive with a sideline catch third quarter, finally tied the over All-Pro cornerback Han-score on Webster Slaughter's 4­ford Dixon, then sped across yard reception 4: 12 into the the middle for another long fourth quarter. gain to the 20. After Rich Karlis' 38-yard 
Winder scored on the next field goal had given the play. Broncos a 31-24 lead, Bernie 
Cleveland then launched yet Kosar guided the Browns 86 another retaliatory drive, but yards in nine plays. A 53-yard it died at the 2 when Earnest pass play over the middle to 
lo _.... ....,......
-;:=======~ ........~... --=======~ 
WANT MORE THANA DESK JOB? 
Looking for an exciting and challenging career where each day is different? Many Air Force people have such a career as Pilots and Navigators. Maybe you can join them. Find out if you quality. Contact your Air Force recruiter today. Call 
T SGT RANDY RODGERS 317-743-1924 COLLECT.;;;.;;;;=;;. .... 
===============~------·.. -..
----..._.....-­

L --....--~-· 
_.
~~~~ 
Byner and a 14-yard run by Kevin Mack keyed the drive. 
Earlier, Elway threw for two touchdowns, including an 80­yarder to Mark Jackson. That third-quarter broken play was the longest playoff touchdown in Broncos history. 
Jackson, whose 5-yard touch­down capped the 98-yard drive to the tying score in last year's AFC championship game, took a 5-yard pass from the scram­bling Elway and sped down the sideline, eluding two tacklers. 
Jackson and Nattie! -two of the Three Amigos -were key elements in Denver's passing game. They made up for the absence of Vance Johnson, the third Amigo and Denver's leading receiver, who was out with a groin injury. 
Jackson finished with 134 yards on four catches, and Nat­tiel -who had an 8-yard touch­down in the first quarter ­wound up with 95 yards on five receptions. They dominated Dixon and Minnifield, a pair of Pro Bowl cornerbacks, as the high-powered Broncos offense, rated No. 1 in the AFC, toyed with Cleveland's Dawg Defense. 
The Broncos, whp led the AFC in takeaways, nearly took Cleveland right out of the game with an interception by Freddie Gilbert on the Browns' first se­ries and a recovery of Mack's fumble on the Browns' next possession. 
Denver did virtually the same thing last week in elim­inating Houston from the playoffs. 

student G~ rr-"'Y 
1 NOTIE D.1ME iracli.\icn 
1956 MOCK NAT\ONAL CONVENTION 
Apri I 1\-14 , 1988 · ~ave tun/ E.it:ct Notre Dorne'.s Chc,iG(.. for twl, next Pre,s;dent +--Vice Presidertt 
Acc."'.. ptinj applicatior1s tor' the +ollo win1 commi-ftee,s: 
-Cav'Y'l pai 9n 5 ·piQt~...-m -de,le:Ja"te~ -pubbci t;~ / p~ornot;or15 
Pick up Q\)~\ication from 5-tude\'"rt 2~d t\oor La.fortur'\~ 
For furtkr iv"'fo..-mati on please. c.o.\\
J 
at 239-6283 or 1008 
ADWORKS 
Monday, January 18, 1988 
page 14 The Observer 
watched Strickland jog trium­But he just felt it today, and phantly off the court. And you rose up to the occasion." 
Rod Jordan not pleased
could just see the air go out of In the Blue Demons' 73-69 continued from page 16 the Joyce ACC partisans, who overtime win over the Irish on were looking for the 15th December 12, Strickland's 

with physical Pistons
their second win over the Irish straight Irish win at home and penetration through the lane al­in little over a month. revenge for last month's 'one­lowed DePaul to tie the game Associated Press ter, which precipitated the 
"It inspires me going up that-got-away' loss at DePaul. in the waning moments of emptying of players from both against David Rivers because For Rivers and the Irish, a regulation and pull away in CHICAGO -Chicago's Mi-benches and a fight between he is such a great player," said sweep at the hands of DePaul overtime. chael Jordan, the NBA's Mahorn and Chicago's Charles Strickland. "You always want must be brushed aside in prep­"I figured they would try to leading scorer, claims the Oakley. 
to play well against a great aration for the likes of Kansas, stop me from penetrating Detroit Pistons deliberately Both Mahorn and Oakley player.'' Kentucky and UCLA. For today," said Strickland, "so I tried to hurt him. were ejected, but not before 
Rivers, who was perfect on Strickland, the most important thought that if I could hit a Jordan made his strong com-Bulls Coach Doug Collins, in at­five attempts from three-point immediate matter is staying couple jump shots I might be ments after the Bulls' 115-99 tempting to intervene, was line, shared the Wendall Smith out of Meyer's doghouse for able to open things up for me fight-marred victory over the flung over the bench and into award with Strickland. good. and my teammates." Pistons Saturday night. the scorer's table by Mahorn. 
Strickllmd's battle "As as I'm concerned Jordan was the victim of Jordan went on to his fifth
with far While Strickland's play rough physical treatment from career triple double -36 points,Rivers on the Joyce ACC court right now," said Strickland, 
capped off a weeklong series of "it's over with me and it's over opened opportunities for the Detroit's Rick Mahorn and 10 rebounds and 10 assists. battles --with Meyer, himself, with Coach Joe. And that is all Blue Demons to stake a claim Adrian Dantley in the second "There was no doubt in my and injury. that matters. Let's just keep as the top independent in the half. mind but that Mahorn, and 
After a subpar performance everything going and keep my nation, it also went a long way He was grabbed around the later Dantley, was trying to in­against Georgetown last nose clean. in closing a painful chapter in neck and tossed to the floor by jure me," the angry Jordan "I just wanted to play ball his basketball career. Mahorn early in the third quar-said.
weekend, Strickland missed 
Monday's practice and was today," continued Strickland. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
penalized with a one-game "Because of my situation, I suspension, leading to knew I'd have to go out there Dayton's upset of the Blue and be aggressive." ~ ~ 
Demons Thursday night. Then Strickland, third in career ~ ~ Friday, on his first day back in assists for DePaul, was cer­
practice, he went down with an tainly not shy about putting the ~ Attention Juniors: ~ ankle injury on the first play of ball up, especially during the ~ ~ the team's five-on-five scrim­pivotal moments of the second 
mage. half. It was obvious, practice 
"When he went down," said or no practice, that Strickland ~ ~ Meyer, "the whole team just was the guy the Blue Demons ~ ~ stopped and watched him limp would go to. ~ ~ off the court. You could just see "Rod has always had that po­~-IF ~ 
the air go out of the team." tential to hit the long shots," said Meyer, "but never looked ~ ~ Less than 24 hours later, for them because he was busy 
~ YOU ~ 
thousands stopped and getting the ball to other people. 
I ~ 
EDUCATIONAL~ ~ THOUGHT ~ 
MED~ ~(~~~~-~ ~ 
~~~~~ ~ YOU ~ 
~ I
'~mlity Processing of your 35mm, E-'-~lide or C-41 oolor negative film. ~ COULDN'T ~ ON CAMPUS In .... , 12:00pm out by 4:00pm I START I 
SAME DAY!! Call 239-5465 or stop in for details!! 





I AT~~~ ~ 
Phoro/Cj P....n. 13 CCe 
~ i 
~ NOW YOU ~ 
~ MAY I
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
I ~ 
~ ~ 
~ I 
~ Explore summer internships wl1h ~ ~ an industry leader which ~ ~ ~ ~ ·Demands Entrepreneurship ~ 
•Emphasizes Career Growth Based on ~ 
Individual Performance ~ z •Offers Challenging Responsibility ~
i
~ •Provides a TOP-rated Internship Training ~ ~ Program ~ 
i I 
~ *Interviews to be held on Tuesday, February 9, 1988 ~ ~ *Profile form turn in date by Monday, January 25, 1988 at the ~ ~ Career and Placement Services ~ ~ *For profile forms and more information please ~ ~ contact the Career and Placement Services Office ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ THE MAy DEPARTMENT 
I 
~ STORES COMPANY ~ ~ EXCELLENCE IN RETAILING ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<!, 

-8:00 & 10:30
Wednesday 
Thursda;I
Tuesday
Winterfest '88 
-Cushing Auditorium 
Comedian
POOL PARTY 
lecture by: 
-Sil.OO
BOB BATTLE
Monday 
-Rolf's Aquatic Center 
-former ND student
Shirley Chisholm 
Saturda.r
-8 pm -11 pm
TUBING AT 
-9 pm Theodore's 
The ROMANTICS 
''Protest, Order, 
-water volleyball, 
BENDIX WOODS 
-FREE 
-$3.00 -Stepan Center 
and Justice'' 
water polo, diving, 
STRIPES 
-8:00pm
-7 pm -meet at 
-8pm, 
music, intertubes, 
8:00 & 10:00 
Library Circle 
-followed by
Washington Hall 
food -FREE 
Cushing Auditorium 
-$2 -includes 
BONFIRE
-$2 
STRIPES 
$1.00
transportation, 
-Caddyshack
-tickets available 
8:00 &10:00
use of hill, & hot 
Friday 
-$1.00 -Cushing Aud. 
at The Cellar 
Cushing Auditorium 
chocolate 
Caddysliack 
-8:00 & 10:30 
$1.00 
Campus 
Monday 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering seminar, "Organized Struc­tures in a Compressible, Turbulent Boundary Layer," by Eric Spina, Princeton University. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 7 p.m. Monday Night Film Series, "Mrican Queen," Annenberg Auditorium. 7 p.m. Tubing at Bendix Woods, sponsored by the Student Union Board. Buses leave library circle at 7 p.m. Cost is two dollars. 9 p.m. Monday Night Film Series, "The Graduate," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Wanted: the ntost runbitious junior at NotreDrune 
• 
must be able to sell 

• 
must enjoy business 

• 
must want an excellent opportunity to make money and gain experience 


If interested, call Kevin Becker at 239-5303 today to arrange an interview. 
Comics 
Bloom County 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS I Cats and dogs ...,...,_+--+--+-­5 Hog's cousin 10 Invitation letters 14 Uncommon 
·15  Coeur d'­ 
16  Dueling  
weapon  

17 Baking place 
·18 Climbing plant 19 Scot. demon 20 Boll 22 Dregs 24 Skin 26 Carried on 27 Helped 31 Drinking orgy 34 Tubes 35 Ringlets 37 A Gabor 


-~-­
Monday, January 18, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
38 War god 39 -Antoinette 40 Berserk 41 So-Po grade 42 Men 43 Out of funds 44 Make beloved 46 Came back 48 Corny 50 Mrs. Charles 51 Marching 54 Record of 
events 58 Mohammedan 
commanders 59 Approaches­61 Courage 62 Mellow 63 Ant old style 
64  Lazarus  or  
Bovary  
65  Fling  
66 Printing  errors  

67 Fabric worker 
DOWN 1 Golf teachers 2 Roof edge 3 "A -Grows 
In Brooklyn" 4 Watchmen 5 Flair 6 MacGraw of 
movies 7 Legumes 8 Kind of tube 
Berke Breathed 


~P l'¥J\)£, nA f'.I()T E~£H t-11t>..~R\'C\). 
\ 
All Rights Reserved 
9 Legible 10 Indians 11 Rash motorist 12 Blood vessel 13 Throw stones 
at 21 Sound for a villain 23 Burl the folksinger 25 Transfer 
design 27 Hurriedly 28 Lorelei 29 Motorists' 
hazards 30 Ger. engraver 32 Summon 33 Collected 
fallen leaves 36 Ascended 39 Disciplinarian 40 Put In order 42 Servant 43 Set flre to 45 Expunges 47 Browns bread 
Far Side 
.. 
01/18/88 

49 Foe 51 Role 52 Exchange premium 53 Umbrella: Br.  55 Horde 56 Rickey Ingredient 57 Marquee name 60 Old-time car  
Gary Larson  


r---1~~---~~--~ 
~ ~ 




Sports
page 16 Monday, January 18, 1988 
•
Blue Demons dump Irish aga1n, 77-71 
DePaul hangs on Strickland's return to sweep series bad news for ND 
By RICK RIETBROCK By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor 
DePaul's Terence Greene's message to When DePaul head coach Joey Meyer didn't 
whoever would listen wasn't exactly accurate, play Rod Strickland in the Blue Demon's loss but he had the general idea right. to Dayton Thursday night, it was like dangling 
The junior forward's claim proved to be true a steak in front of a caged lion. as the hot-shooting Blue Demons defeated Notre On Saturday, Meyer's star point guard was Dame Saturday afternoon, 77-71, to sweep the hungry to close the door on his most difficult 
home-and-home series between the top indepen­week in three stellar years at DePaul. After 
• dents. Both teams are now 9-4. the Blue Demons 77-71 win over Notre Dame "Terence came to me and said 'Coach, it's on Saturday, the question was not would Rodney 
just going to be an easy day at the office, we're want to play, but how well would he play.
going to get this one,' "recalled DePaul's head 
coach Joey Meyer. "I think he did an excellent 
job of getting this team ready to play." 
against the Irish, canning four three-point shots to keep DePaul close and coolly sinking five Someone certainly did. While it wasn't as ~ free throws in the final minute to ice the victory. easy as Greene had asserted, DeGPaul l, Strickland's matchup with Notre Dame's rebounded from consecutive losses to eor-r.~·~ David Rivers was a game in itself, as the two getown and Dayton, and Rod Strickland ~. _ stars steered their teams through a nailbitingbounced back from off-court difficulties in contest which featured 12lead changes. Barring business-like fashion. a meeting between the two schools in The teams traded leads throughout, but postseason play, Strickland came away with DePaul claimed the lead for good with seven the upper hand in the final collegiate meeting 
minutes left on a Kevin Edwards dunk. Kevin The Observer 1 Mike Moran 
between two of the nation's top guards. Strick­Golden then blocked a David Rivers attempt Rod Strickland soars to the basket In Saturday's game. Strickland land tallied 28 points to Rivers' 26, but more and Andy Laux nailed DePaul's seventh three-scored 28 points to lead DePaul to a n-71 over Notre Dame. Rick importantly the Blue Demons came away with 
Rletbrock has the game story at lett and Brian O'Gara details Strlck­see DEMONS, page 12 land's performance at right. see ROD, page 14 
•
Men w1n, women lose in swim team meets 
Paul Godfrey captured the 200 31.5. The Irish captured seven Moston, Kathy Quirk, Becky Moston the 100 freestyle, and
By GREG GUFFEY 
butterfly to boost Notre Dame first places while dominating Wood and Tracy Johnson Annette Quill the 200 individual
Sports Writer 
to a 50-49 lead. the meet. started the night off with a first medley. The Irish never relinquished The womens squad, mean­place finish. Moston came back The Irish managed only sixIt was a weekend of mixed 
results for the Irish swim that lead. John Koselka won the while, found the waters a bit three events later to win the 100 first places in their loss to 50 freestyle, and Jim Dowd took rougher. The Irish lost to Nor­backstroke and tie the score at Western Ontario. Amy Dar­
teams. 
The mens squad downed Nor­top honors in the 100 freestyle. thern Illinois, 139-127, and then 33-33. Wood took the 100 lington won the 200 butterfly, thern Illinois Friday and then Eric Bohdan won the 200 back­fell to Western Ontario, 109-102. breaststroke, Johnson the 50 Johnson the 100 and the 50 frees­stroke, and Byrne captured his "It's been a close meet and freestyle, and Andrea Bonny tyle, Wood the 200 breaststroke
came back to crush Western 
Ontario Saturday, while the second event of the day, the 200 a good rivalry the past three the diving, but they trailed, 68-and Moston the 200 freestyle. women's team suffered set­individual medley. The 400 years," Irish coach Tim Welsh 66. The 400 medley relay team of backs against both schools. freestyle relay team of Jeff said of the Northern Illinois Moston won the 200 back­Moston, Wood, Darlington and 
The Irish men came back Grace, Chris Petrillo, John meet. "This past meet was no stroke to tie the score at 84-84, Johnson also took first place. from an early deficit to defeat Froman and Koselka capped exception. The score was tied but the Irish could not pull the lluskies, 141-120. After fal­off the evening with a first twice, within two points three ahead. Even though they won Both squads travel to the ling behind by 12 points just place finish. other times, and the lead three of the final six events, the East Coast this weekend, 
changed three times." Huskies managed more swim­swimming at Boston College
three events into the meet, the The men then returned to Irish got untracked. Jim Byrne Rolf's Aquatic Center Saturday Against the Huskies, the 200 mers at the front of the pack. Saturday and Providence Sun­
medley relay team of Christine Wood won the 200 breaststroke, day.
won the 100 backstroke, and to down Western Ontario, 68.5­
ND women start strong again, run over Orangewomen, 81-64 
By THERESA KELLY amazing clip, shooting 18 of 27 easily as the layups, giving Sports Writer (.667) for the half. Syracuse even more to worry "We've come out strong about defensively. 
Anyone who stayed to watch every game," said Irish head the basketball game that took coach Muffet McGraw. "We've "Diondra (Toney) hit a few place after the men's game saw always started out well, even long jumpers early,'' said what they came for Saturday in the games we've lost." McGraw. "That was good.afternoon--a big win for the Late in the first half and That was something that she Irish. throughout the second, the should do a little bit more of. 
It was the Orangewomen of Orangewomen tried to quicken Karen Robinson hit a few too, Syracuse, not the Blue Demons the pace and put pressure on and Lisa Kuhns is always ready of DePaul, who fell victim to a the Irish to try to get back into to shoot from long range. Our quick start and and impressive the contest. Although the Irish perimeter game was a little bit shooting performance by a did finish with 23 turnovers, better today.'' Notre Dame team--the wo­guards Mary Gavin, Karen Toney and Kuhns both to­men's basketball team. Robinson, and Sara Leibscher taled 13 points for the Irish, and 
Syracuse came into the Joyce were successful in beating the Robinson added 10. ACC with a 11-3 record and a tough Syracuse pressure The Irish rebounding effort four-game winning streak. throught most of the game. was balanced as well. Toney 
It left with an 81-64 score The Orangewomen, like all and Botham each brought and a one-game losing streak. the teams the Irish have played down nine boards, Bunek The victory was an important this year, had trouble dealing added eight, and freshman one for Notre Dame, which with Notre Dame's strong in­Krissi Davis grabbed seven in showed its true colors against side game. Heidi Bunek led the just 21 minutes of play. 
a very tough opponent. Irish in scoring for the seventh 
The Irish rolled up ten points time this season with 23 points, The Irish played good before Syracuse got a basket and frontcourt mate Sandy Bot­defense, especially in the first and were leading 19-3 before ham added 16. However, the half, when they held the Orange 
The Observer I John Studebaker
the Orangewomen began to get Irish did not rely entirely on to .282 (11 of 39) from the floor. into the game. The Irish were the inside game, as the jump Dlondra Toney puts up a jumper against Syracuse Saturday. The hitting the basket at an shots were falling almost as see DEFENSE, page 10 hot-shooting Irish defeated the Orangewomen, 81-64. 







