
Permacloud dies 
p~-:c(l
Mostly sunny today with high in the mid 40s and low in the I ~··
/ACCENT: Kodak's new creations 
.ft'lli>-"· -·

g;:_1 -=~ 
low 30s. Partly sunny, windy and warmer Friday with a chance for afternoon showers. 

IVIEWPOINT: Turned away from Reagan 

' .
L----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
VOL. XXI, NO. 108 THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 1988 

the independent newspaper se~ving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 



Reagan visits NO 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
"Never in our wildest dreams had we ever thought that George Gipp would be president of the United States." 
Gipp returned to Notre Dame on Wednesday as President Reagan relived the ro\~ he made famous in the 1940 film "Knute Rockne All Ameri­can," at the dedication cere­mony for the Knute Rockne commemorative stamp. 
Reagan was joined by Uni-

Pax Christi protests Reagan's policies 
By GREG LUCAS 
Copy l'~ditor 
About 100 people stood out in the cold Wednesday to protest President Ronald Reagan's visit to campus for the Knute Rockne Stamp dedication cer­emony. 
The protest was organized by the Notre Dame chapter of Pax Christi, an international Cath­olic peace movement, said Polly Carl, spokeswoman for Pax Christi-Notre Dame. 
The protesters gathered by Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC, dis­playing signs that read "Reagan: your defense is of­fensive," "the Moral Majority is neither," and "bread not bombs." 
''The rich have gotten richer and the poor have gotten poorer under Reagan's policies," said Carl, who added that Reagan "has not promoted peace in his policy in Nicaragua." 
Carl also cited Reagan's "militarization" and the fact that his administration has constructed the ''largest peacetime build up of arms" as reasons for the protest. 

Nearby, a group of about 15 1• pro-Reagan demonstrators 
see PROTEST, page 5 

Waving goodbye 
This will b(• the last issue lf The Observer before spring break. The staff 
versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy and former ath­letic director Moose Krause, who made the quip about Gipp becoming president, in prais­ing Rockne. 
Quoting lines from the film and praising Rockne's legend, Reagan's address highlighted the one and a half hour cere­mony in the Joyce ACC. 
"The Rockne legend stood for fair play and honor," Reagan said. "It was practi­cal; it placed a value on devas­tating quickness and agility 




300,000 new Rockne stamps sold at NO 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
Almost 300,000 Knute Rockne stamps and 10,000 com­memorative envelopes were sold Wednesday as thousands of students, faculty, staff, local residents and President Reagan celebrated the dedica­tion of the Rockne stamp. 
"We had some people who bought 5,000 at a time," said Notre Dame Postmaster George Weddle, though most people bought just three or four sheets. 
The Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation sold out of the com­memorative envelopes it had prepared for sale. "We started at 8 a.m. and sold out by 10 or 
10:30 p.m.," said Peter Pranica of the alumni associa­tion. "It was a constant crush of people." 
Alumni representatives then took orders for the envelopes, but the demand was so great they ran out of order forms by 3:30. 
The alumni association also took Of'ders for formal first day covers "which are of better 



for stamp dedication 
and on confounding the opposi­The address also gave tion with good old American Reagan a chance to reminisce cleverness. about the role he called "a 
"But most of all, the Rockne young actor's dream." "It had legend meant this: on or off the a great entrance, an action field, it is faith that makes the middle, and a death scene right difference, it is faith that out of the opera," he said. 
makes great things happen," "But it was more than that," Reagan added. he added. "I know that to many 
Speaking for the second time of you today, Rockne is a at Notre Dame since his elec­revered name, a symbol of tion as president, Reagan said greatness, and yes, a face on a Rockne was a man of vision. stamp. But my generation, "Rockne exemplified the well, we actually knew the American spirit of never giving legend as it happened -we up." saw it unfold." 
emergency.'' 
Bland said that he did not know how many people were actually in the arena or how many people were denied ad­mission. 
According to Director of Public Relations Richard Con­klin, there were more ticket holders than there were seats available because the set up for the event was "a new configu­ration in the ACC." 
Because the tickets were printed by the White House, the 
see DENIED, page 6 

quality and more of a collec­tible," Pranica said. These or­ders will be filled in four to six weeks, he added. 
He said the envelopes, which included message cards so the purchaser could mail the en­velope immediately, were originally designed to appeal to students. But in fact, there was a large demand from townspeople, he said. 
Postal workers also provided first day cancellations for anythiDg on which someone wanted to stick a Rockne itamp. 'These items included 
About 10,000 students, fac­ulty, staff and South Bend resi­dents passed through metal detectors before packing the JACC. Hundreds were turned away after lower arena seats and bleachers were filled. Fire department officials refused to allow people to sit or stand in the aisles. 
Inside the JACC, spectators found small American flags on their seats and saw Air Force One touch down at Michiana 
see REAGAN, page 6 

Students with tickets turned away from JACC 
By JIM WINKLER 
Staff Reporter 
An undetermined number of students with tickets to the Rockne stamp dedication cer­emony were denied admission to the event when all of the seats in the Joyce ACC were taken. 
Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland explained that nobody was admitted into the arena once all the seats available were full. "We were complying with Indiana state fire rules. We can't allow people to block exits, steps or aisles," Bland said. "We have to be able to clear the building in case of 
old Rockne posters, books, foot­balls and football helmets, said Weddle. He said some people brought in 40-to 50-year-old memorabilia. 
Postal officials brought in 59 workers from Goshen, Elkhart and Syracuse, Ind., to man their four booths and the Notre Dame post office, said Paul Sniadecki, manager of retail sales and services for the South Bend post office. 
The alumni office employed a staff of six volullteers to affix 
... STAMPS, page 4 
-

page 2 The Observer Thursday, March 10, 1988 

In Brief 
Eddie "The Eagle" Edwards, the myopic, bespectacled ski jump star of the Winter Olympics, has recovered the lucky pair of skis that launched him to fame. The unlikely hero of the British team, who won interna­tional recognition when he finished last in the 90-meter and 70-meter jumps in Calgary, disclosed Wednesday he mislaid his favorite pair of skis after his final jump at the Games, and has only just found them. "I am taking up a spare pair just in case," Edwards said. He also said he wanted to to get down to serious business after all the ballyhoo in Calgary. "It will be nice to get back to my sport. I have enjoyed the promotion work but I haven't had much sleep over the past couple of days." -Associated Press 


:Of Interest 
The Medieval Institute will present a lecture by Charles Kannengiesser, Catherine Huisking Professor of the theology department, today at 4:15p.m. in room 715 Hesburgh Library. The lecture title is "Hilary of Poitiers in Medieval Theology." -The Observer 
Archeological team applications for the second season of excavation at Oppido Mamertina (Calabria) by the Notre Dame archeology team are due after spring break. -The Observer 
Alcohol and Drug Problems will be the topic of the Campus Perspectives talk show tonight from 10 to 11 on WVFI-AM 640. Guests will include Dave Dannison, head of the newly-created office of Alcohol and Drug Education Jane Heisel, former president of BACCHUS and recove~­i~g alcoholic students. Host Lynsey Strand ~ill take ques­
tions at 239-6400. -The Observer 
A Graduate Organ Recital will be given by Lynn Trapp tonight at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. For further information contact Eric Kuehmer, Department of Music, at 239-6201. -The Observer 
A Meet Your Major meeting for the Concentration in Public Service will be in 104 O'Shaughnessey tonight at 
6. -The Observer 
Buses toMidwayregional airport will pick up students at the Main Circle on Friday before break from noon to 4 
p.m. every hour on the hour. -The Observer 
Humanitas will be accepting submissions for the spring '88 issue until March 31. Please give essays, fiction, and recent book reviews to the English office in 356 O'Shaughnessey. -The Observer 
An Tostal mud volleyball team sign-ups are Wednesday, March 23 from 6:30 to 8:30p.m. in 307 LaFor­tune Student Center. There must be 7 players per team with a minimum of two women and a maximum of one women's varisity or men's club player. There is a 128 team limit. Call Michelle Gund at 284-5184 for more information. -The Observer 
The Dismas House application deadline is 
tomorrow. Applications are available at the Center for 
Social Concerns. If interested, contact Kathy Royer at the 
Center for Social Concerns or by calling 239-7862. -The 
Observer • 

We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ............ Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Layout .............. Laura Manzi Design Assistant _.. __ ......... Michelle Dall Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Typesetters....................... . Kathy Beck Accent Layout·····-····· .. --. Rachel O'Hara ............................................Smed Laboe Typists... .--.............. Jennifer Conlon News Editors ..................... Regis Coccia ........................................ Lynsey Strand ........................................... Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler Copy Editor .... --.. ---.. -· Mark McLaughlin Photographer-·· ..·····-·-··· Susy Hernandez Sports Copy Editor __ ·--··· Steve Megargee  
TM Olllener (USPS 599 2~) is publisMd Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. TM Obeen'er is publisMd by the students of the University of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writina TM Olleener. P .0. Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46556. TM Olllener is a member of TM ~led Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



Packing up, moving on: There's a lot left yet
I have never gone in for maudlin displays of sentimentality and do not plan on starting now. Although this is the last issue of The Observer that the seniors of this year's staff will be producing, I do not feel the need to schmooz all over Notre Dame and Saint Mary's about it. 
Last year, for example, the editor decided to treat the community to the sappy details of his 
reading a book. "As the first drops of spring tapped on my shoulder, I grabbed a blue-and­gold book meant to be read on the not-too-green grass of South Quad," he oozed. 
No thanks. 

I have thoroughly enjoyed this year as the editor of The Observer. I have made some mis­takes and made some enemies, but the good times far outshine the bad. Working at this place must be similar to working for many of the other campus organizations and participat­ing in student government and clubs. We put in a lot of hours, but we have a great time while we do it. And it is not too easy to leave in the end. 
The best thing about working here for the past four years is the chance to make more good friends than I would ever have imagined I could have. Because most of the community has little idea about what goes into producing a daily newspaper, the staff members of The Observer rarely get the proper recognition for what they do. They work hard, many of them for more than 40 hours a week. They give their all (and many times their grades) to producing the best newspaper possible. 
I guess that I will never have a better chance to say thank you to all of the staff of the paper than in this column. The hardest thing about leaving The Observer is giving up the daily con­tact with so many fantastic people. 
But I should move on before I start to talk about dew drops of spring, etc. 

At the beginning of our tenure at The Obser­ver, this editorial board set out to accomplish many goals. We fell short of some but accom­plished more. Our main goal, however, was to make this a fair and objective newspaper and an open forum of thought for our community. 
What is an objective newspaper? In some in­stances, many people have tried to tell us what it means to "be good journalists." 
In the end there is no actual standard for objectivity that a newspaper can follow. We have no book in which we look when faced with a difficult decision. We listen to everyone's 

-::-::--,....·-.:----------==--------­
KeVIn Becker 
Editor-in-Chief 

opinion on what it means to be objective, but as journalist George E. Reedy commented, "the problem is that (society) provides ab­solutely no guide as to what facts should be presented and which accusations are facts." So we make careful, well-reasoned decisions that we think are in the best interest of the commu­nity and in the fulfillment of our duty as jour­nalists. 
As far as being a forum for thought, we have tried to open up the editorial pages of the paper to the best of our ability. We have upheld the idea that 2veryone should be heard and that open debate will lead to a greater awareness of truth in the community. 
But still we have much farther to go. The 
next editorial board has its work cut out for 
them. I hope that we are leaving the newspaper 
after having made some positive headway. But 
no matter what we have done, there is an end­
less road of improvement for this newspaper 
and this community to travel. 
As Cecil Rhodes said as he breathed his last, 
"So little done -so much to do." 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
Why not dress for a different kind ofsuccess 
'W""f.~~. 



this Summer? 
O.K., maybe volunteering for a week in Appalachia won't get you into Who's Who in Business, but it will make you feel pretty good about yourself. 
We're the Glenmary Home Missioners, a·group that provides single, Catholic men and women with the opportunity to share their good fortune with others. Ifyou would like to spend a week helping out in Appalachia this Summer, fill out the coupon below and return it. You'll work hard, but fringe benefits like new friends and self-satisfaction will make it all worthwhile. 
GLENMARY home missioners 
Tell me more! 

I'm interested in learning about: ____ Men's Week ___ Women's Week 
Admess -----------------------------------­City ____________'State-----------Zip ______ 
Birth --------------Phone------------­Month Day Year (Area Cock) 
College 18/88 
Fill in the abovecouponand send to: GleomaryVolunteer Program, 
P.O. Box 465618, Cincinnati, OH 4S246-S618, or call Sl3/874-8900. 
------~--------------------------~---------~ ~ 
Thursday, March 10, 1988 page 3
The Observer 

Phelps played key role in Rockne stamp 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
The history behind the Rockne stamp and President Ronald Reagan's visit stretches back two years to when the stamp was first ap­proved, according to Notre Dame head basketball coach Digger Phelps. 
Phelps, a member of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Board, saw Rockne's name on a list of proposed commemora­tive stamps when he was first named to the board in 1984. 
"I didn't want to push it," Phelps said Wednesday. "We have thousands of proposed subjects on any topic. 
"In 1986, when I was named chairman of the Sports Sub­committee, I thought about the Rockne stamp with his 100th birthday coming up," Phelps said. "Wilbur Cohen, who was President Kennedy's secretary of health, education and wel­fare, said I should bring it up." 
The measure passed a full vote of the board by a unani­mous vote of 16-0, with a release date of March 4, 1988. 
The story of the president's 

visit also traces back to 1986, 
when Vice President Bush, a 
close friend of Phelps, visited 
for the weekend of the Notre 
Dame-Penn State game. 
Phelps allowed the Secret 
Service advance men to spend 
time with his team. In thanks, 
a special tour was arranged for 
the team when they played at 
Maryland Jan. 31, 1986. 
At the visit, Phelps men­
tioned the Rockne Stamp to 
John Simpson, director of the 
Secret Service. Simpson, who 
goes back to Reagan's days as 
governor of California, ar­
ranged a meeting last May be­
tween Reagan and Phelps at 
which time Phelps invited the 
president to come to Notre 
Dame for the release of the 
stamp. The president agreed, 
and a tentative date was set for 
the first week of March. 
"Jan. 14, two days before we played DePaul," Phelps recalled, "I got a call from John Simpson that March 4 was af­firmative, but the following week, they called again and said the president had to be in Brussels for theNATO summit. They asked if it would be pos­sible to come next week, but I said the students would be gone. They agreed to March 9. 
"John Simpson sat next to me today and told me that the pres­ident was very excited to be here. It was all he talked about on the flight out, and he talked about it on the way home from Brussels." said Phelps. 

ATTENTION FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES Department Presentations 
THURSDAy I MARCH 10: 
American Studies  104 O'Shag  4:30-5:30 PM  
Education  216 O'Shag  5-6:00 PM  
Hesburgh Program  104 O'Shag  6-7:00 PM  

Arts & Letters Pre-Professional Program I Arts and Letters Engineering 104 O'Shag 7-8:00 PM Arts & Letters Program for Administrators 104 O'Shag 8-9:00 PM 
I B R,A R 1 


Rites of Spring  The Observer/ Susy Hernandez  
Students help prepare for the Beaux Arts Ball. The  ball will be held March 25 in the Architecture Building.  
theme for this year's ball is "Rites of Spring." The  

Bush strong after Super 




Tuesday;
Associated Press 
Republican resistance to George Bush's bid for the White House began crumbling Wed­nesday as the impact of his fabulous Super Tuesday showing sank in. Democrats Michael Dukakis, Albert Gore 

Dems still close 
banner in a campaign against that said the time had come to the Republicans. "look ahead to the issues which 
Bush spent the day in Hous-distinguish us from the ton savoring his 16-state pri-Democrats." mary sweep and the roughly "Good luck," he wrote. 600 delegates they brought. The Dole awoke to a campaign in outlook for Illinois wasn't bad shambles after losing all 17 either, as Gov. James Super Tuesday states and Thompson was backing the conceded, "I've got to win Illi­
and Jesse Jackson savored their ,....._ _..-:::rr.:::r:::ll:'7r~••.... nois" to save his candidacy. 
own successes while aiming for next week's showdown in Illi­nois. 
Massachusetts Gov. Dukakis and Sen. Gore of Tennessee agreed the nomination struggle would last until the convention next summer. But they quar­reled long-distance over which one of them could attract the most voters to the Democratic 

The Kansas senator visited the hospital in Chicago where he was treated 40 years ago for his vice president and Sen. Bob crippling World War II wounds, Dole's own campaign polls while his senior aides met to gave Bush the lead. discuss wholesale staff reduc-
The vice president sounded tions. like he was trying to nudge Dole aside, the vice presi­Dole from the race. He declined dent's rivals signaled they his rival's challenge to debate knew the game was all but him in Illinois in a telegram over. 
The Notre Dame Club of New York City 
Cordially invites all Notre Dame and . 
Saint Maty's stt1dents in New York City dtlring Spring Break to march with the club tlp New York's Stl1 Aventle in the 227tl1 Annt1al St. Patrick's Day Parade. 

Assemble at 3:45 p.m. on 48th Street (between Maclison & 5th-look for otlr banner) A party will follow the parade at Dt1ffy's (2ncl A vent1e & 89tl1) 
The Critical Edge 
INTERNSHIPS Designed For Your Success 

london 
Spring & Fall Semesters Summer Internships Feature Film Project 
Courses & Internships for College Credit: Old Bailey. Parliament, Lloyds. barristers. solicitors. museums. newspapers. theater, BBC. public relations. banking. government. 

Israel 
Work & Study Tour 
Contact: Janet Kollek. JD. Dir. 
Amerlcln Aaoclltlon 
Ill OVWiaa Sllldla 158 West 81 St., No. 112 New York, NY 10024 
Toll free 800-EOU-BRIT In NY State 212-724.{)804 


page 4 
~­
~"'~~· 

Hardbodies 
The Observer 
The Observer 1 Susy Hernandez 

Arms, legs and bodies are pushed to their limits in Gym. Spring break has a way of making such facilities the third-floor weightroom at the Rockne Memorial common meeting places. 
Helicopter collision kills 17 soldiers 
Associated Press Campbell spewed wreckage for Randy Schoel, Fort Campbell 
hundreds of yards and charred spokesman. 
FORT CAMPBELL, Ky.-the partially wooded, gently 
Army crews Wednesday rolling crash site six miles The Blackhawk, one of the retrieved the last eight bodies from the choppers' air field newer helicopters used by the of 17 soldiers killed when two ·Tuesday night. Army, Air Force and Marine 
helicopters on a night training mission collided, then plunged 
250 feet  to  the  ground  and  
caught fire.  
The  UH-60  Blackhawk  

~~~~-____!f~ro~m~_ _JF~o~r::t 



Stamps 
continued from page 1 
and cancel the stamps by hand on each of the 10,000 envelopes Saturday, Pranica said. 
He said the envelopes and first day covers which will be created in the next couple of weeks to fill orders will still bear the first day of issue can­cellation. Both items can still be ordered through Friday at the alumni office, said Pranica. 
He said the office sold the items primarily as a service to the community, alumni and students. Proceeds from the sales of the envelopes and first day covers will go toward student-alumni relations activ­ities and other alumni activi­ties. 
• Unlt.dW.U 
-,
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 

SCHOOL 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthropol­ogy, art, bilingual edu­cation, folk music and folk dance, history, phonetics, political sci­ence, Spanish langu­age and literature and intensive Spanish. Six­week session. July 4­August 12, 1988. Fully accredited program. Tuition $510. Room and board in Mexican home $540. 
EEO/AA 
Write Guadalajara Summer School Education Bldg., Room 225 University of Arizona Tucson. AZ 85721 (6021 621-4729 or 621-4720 

It was the worst Army avia­Corps, has been grounded four tion disaster since 248 soldiers times in three years. Last sum­based at Fort Campbell were mer officials said about 40 killed in 1985 in the crash of a people had been killed in chartered plane in Gander, crashes of the helicopter since Newfoundla said 1978. 
THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 
is now accepting applications for the positions of 
PRESIDENT and VICE PRESIDENT. 
Applications may be obtained on the 2nd floor of LaFortune and are to be returned to Michael Thomas at the Adworks office by 6:00pm, Tuesday, March 22 . 


Thursday, March 10, 1988 

Dancin' Irish complain 
By LIZ PANZICA Copy Editor 
Members of the Dancin' Irish have been soliciting support in the hope that they may keep the group in its present form. 
A board comprised of stu­dents and administrators decided Tuesday to dissolve the current squad. "We don't feel it was an informed decision," said Cailin Stubbs, Dancin' Irish co-captain. 
"The decision was made be­hind closed doors with no one to represent our group," said Stubbs. 
The group has asked campus leaders, especially female leaders, to submit letters stating that the Dancin' Irish does not hurt the image of Notre Dame women and that the Dancin' Irish have a right to exist, Stubbs said. 
The letters are to be submit­ted to Joe Cassidy, director of student activities, and Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for student services. 
Presidents of at least six wo­men's halls have agreed to write letters supporting the Dancin' Irish, said Stubbs. 
Pasquerilla East Hall Presi­dent Amy Rochon said she and Vice President Amy Harron co­authored a letter saying that, "We felt that CDancin' Irish) make a worthwhile contribu­tion to the spirit and enthusi­asm at the games." 





Dear Stanley H.,
the 

LSAT lifesaver, 
(Excerpts from actual letters* Stanley H. Kaplan has received from satisfied LSAT-prep takers.) 
" ... I was quite pleased when I received my score (99th percentile). I am certain that I would not have done that well without taking the Stanley H. Kaplan course:· 
-Student from Gainesville, FL ".. .Thank you so much! I was hoping to score close to the 90th percentile, but that was a dream. Well, thanks to Stanley H. Kaplan and my instructor, that dream has come true:· -Student from Seattle, WA Kaplan has more ''over 40" LSAT grads than any other test prep company anywhere. So if you want the best and most experienced in test prep-call 
Kaplan today! "IF YOUD liKl TO ReAD MORE lETTERS liKE THE Sf. COMe VISIT US 

!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
LS/\T CtASS FOR JUNE EXAM STARTS 3/24. 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

CLIP AND SAVE FOR REFERENCE fl
,--------------------------------------------~----------------------1 
I I I 

The Mall at SunChase 1004 Padre Blvd. 1/2 Block North of the Hilton 

March 13th to 19th, 1988 10:00 a.n1. to 9:30p.m.


BR.E 

Please drop by to say hello. Present your Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College I.D. and take advantage of the services provided: 
' 


Complimentary Coca -Cola Products  Complimentary Long-Distance Phone Calls  Reserved Basketball Court  Local Events Info­Mexico, shopping, concerts, etc.  
Complimentary 0.]. & newspapers (mornings)  Message Exchange Board  Student Locator File -Find your friends  Mass-Noon Saturday, March 19 (1 hr. before SUB bus leaves for ND)  

~ 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------J 


Thursday, March 10, 1988 The Observer page 5 
OBUD mistaken, prints ballOts on campaign posters 



Protest 
continued from page 1 
was asked by Notre Dame Se­curity to move across the street because they were blocking the sidewalk, said Rex Rakow, director of Security. 
Rakow said that the Pax Christi demonstration had been approved by the Univer-
For ten years, the parties never stopped 


Coupon Good For 1 FREE 
2 Blocks North 

BAR DRINK, 
of Amoco Station,

DRAFT or Hwy 98 837-6448 I 
WINE DESTIN, FLORIDA I 
exp~res 4/88 I




----------------· 
By JIM RILEY budsman. And some of the News Editor posters which were to an­nounce the time and place of Some candidates almost elections in each hall were received some free advertising printed on the back of surplus for today's election -right on posters for the ticket of Tom the back of the voters' ballots. Tisa, who is still in the running for senior class office, Wilson 
Many of today's junior class added. election ballots were printed on , the backs of old senior class Wilson said Wednesday night election posters, said John Wil­that OBUD was in the process 
son, co-director of Om-of taking the posters down and 
Noriega not the only problem in Panama 
Associat('d Press 
PANAMA CITY-Many prominent Panamanians say the nation's entire system, and not just the leader, needs changing. Even if Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega goes, they say the United States may be back­ing the wrong replacement. 
Eric Arturo Delvalle, the ousted president Washington supports, tried to dismiss Noriega on Feb. 25 as com­mander of the Panama Defense Forces. Noriega ar­ranged for the legislature to dismiss Delvalle instead, and the political and economic crisis has deepened since. 
"The United States is mis­taken in putting so much be­hind Delvalle,·· said Luis Moreno, former manager of Chase Manhattan Bank's local operations and. until Jan. 1987, a member of the government Banking Commission. Moreno, an independent, met regularly with the president and Cabinet ministers. 
"Delvalle and his people are 

spent,· he said. "Noriega is 
laughing at this rallying behind 
Delvalle, saying 'This guy 
can't bring me down.' " 
The administration 


SHRIMP THE WAY YOU LIKE IT. 
Your Choice 
...of pntrl'l' include~ our Sal.1d BuffPt ,md your choice of ,my on<' of our sidP'>. Daily from 5 p.m., S.1t. & Sun. irom 4 p.m. 
Shrimp Stir Fry Almond Shrimp Blackened Shrimp Cajun Stuffed Shrimp Sweet & Sour Shrimp Shrimp Creole Fried Shrimp Shrimp De)onghe 
e~IJ~·~ 

\001~­
...ev@rlj 

continues to recognize Del­valle, now in hiding in Panama, as the country's legitimate leader and is applying eco­nomic pressure in an effort to get him back in office. 
Noriega was indicted in Florida last month on narcotics and money laundering charges, which he denies, and the Reagan administration portrays him as little more than a gangster. Washington has indicated the economic heat will end if he steps down or is removed. 
Roderick Esquivel, who was Delvalle's vice president and was removed with him, said "The object is not to change the face on the regime but to dis­mantle an entire corrupt and repressive apparatus of state." Esquivel, who also is in hiding, made the comment during an interview at a safe-house. 
Dennis McAuliffe, adminis­
trator of the Panama Canal 
Commission, reported that the 
canal is operating normally, 
though U.S.-Panamanian ten­
sion has caused strain on canal 
workers. 
"No slowdown, no work stop­page, no troubles, no problems pertaining to payment," he said. 
to the ballots being printed on the backs of campaign posters, only 32 ballots were provided for the 57 seniors-to-be in Stan­ford Hall. 
It is OBUI.J practice to pro­vide fewer ballots than the number of students because not everyone votes, Wilson said. OBUD has p"ople in its office waiting for calls from polling stations and then deliver extra ballots as needed, he said. 
that new ballots would be 
printed on fresh paper and dis­
tributed by morning. 
Pat Cooke, student body 
president, said it is standard 
practice in the student govern­
ment office conserve paper by 
feeding old paper into the copy 
machine blank side up. The 
fact that old campaign plat­
form posters were used "is just 
an oversight on our part," said ·Cooke. 

Wilson said the Tisa posters were in the office because the ticket had gone over budget and had to return some of its posters. "Just about everybody gave us posters back," said Wilson, because candidates of­ten get better deals from print­
ers  if  they  order  in  bulk  
amounts.  
Dave  Gould,  Stanford  Hall  

"Q!'esident, s::~in that in addition 

sity and given a specific area to protest. The pro-Reagan group, however, "had not ap­proached the University saying they wanted an approved area," Rakow said. 
Carl said that the pro­Reagan demonstrators had been "jeering and yelling" prior to being asked to move across the street. 
Eric Bellafronto, a represen-

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I 

tative from the pro-Reagan demonstration, expressed dis­pleasure at being asked to move across the street. "I think it's kind of sad that one group's opinion is being relegated to the· side of the road while they're (Pax Christi) allowed to stay over there," Bellafronto said. 
The pro-Reagan group dis­played a banner that read: "Repeal the 22nd: Reagan and Bush in 88." 
Carl said that Pax Christi wants to teach the student body that Christian values must be reconciled with public policy. "We want the students to chal­lenge themselves in the upcom­ing elections," Carl said. 
"We feel it's important to show that not everyone here is happy that Ronald Reagan is associated with a Notre Dame hero," said Carl. 

According to Carl, Pax Christi-Notre Dame only has about 30 members, although nearly 50 people attended the prayer vigil on Tuesday night and over 100 attended the protest. 
A Pax Christi press release stated that the protest was focused on four main issues: 
• 
The growing income dis­parity in the U.S. in the 1980s, 

• 
The nuclear arms race and 'Star Wars,' 

• 
Central American policy. and 

• 
The Iran-Contra affair. 


The Pax Christi release states that "these policies stand in opposition to the ideals that the University of Notre Dame holds as a Catholic insti­tution." 
-
Grievances for the Gipper 

Members of Pax Christi-Notre Dame demonstrate outside the Joyce ACC as students filed in to see the president. Handouts given during the protest stressed three issues -welfare, human rights and foreign policy -and expressed the group's hope 'That all would be carefully reconsidered. 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 10, 1988 



Reagan praises Knute Rockne, Notre Dame in speech 


Special to The Observer 
Here are excerpts from the prepared text of President Reagan·s speech Wednesday at Notre Dame: 
On the Rockne legend 

Now, of course, the Rockne legend stood for fair play and honor but, you know, it was also thoroughly American in an­other way. It was practical; it placed a value on devasting quickness and agility and on confounding the opposition with good old American clever­ness. 
But, most of all, the Rockne legend meant this -when you think about it, it's what's been taught here at Notre Dame since her founding -that on or off the field, it is faith that makes the difference, it is faith that makes great things hap­pen. 
On George Gipp 
Anyway, I was asked whe­ther I knew that George Gipp was no angel, that he had played in some pool games and card games in his time. And, of course, that was true and I said so.. 
But it was also true of George Gipp -and it is legitimately part of the legend -that he used his winnings from those games to buy food for destitute families and help other stu­dents pay their way through Notre Dame. 
And the reason he got so sick and later died from pneumonia was because he had promised a former teammate who had become a high school coach that he would give his students some pointers. Author James Cox tells us it was during that training session in Chicago that an icy wind blew in across Lake Michigan and the Gipper first felt the ache and sore throat that would lead to the illness that would take his life. 
You see, there were no miracle drugs in those days. And a promising young life was ended, but the point is: George Gipp couldn't forget a friend. 


Traffic backup 
It was the road travelled by too many. Students who everyone had 
arrived at the Joyce ACC shortly before noon found tracted more people than could be accommodated. 

lon~ lines and, for some, no admittance. Though 
that students could make the decision to attend. That would 

Denied 
affect at most one class." 
continued from page 1 
University had to make what Most of the stud.ents. who Conklin called "an educated were turned away wtth tickets guess" of how many seats there • in hand expressed their dis­
would be without actually counting them. A total of about 11 000 tickets were printed and 
di~tributed. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said that the ticket distribution problem was the result of the complexity of the organization of the event. "(The event) was a combina­tion of the White House plan­ning group and Notre Dame logistics people working out the details," Malloy said. 
Conklin and others expressed the opinion that students them­selves were partially to blame for arriving late to the cere­mony, which opened its doors at 10 a.m. 
Ron Vogler, assistant ticket manager of the JACC, blamed the ticket problem on students' habit of arriving at the arena at the last possible minute. "If they have to be there at 1, they think that means to leave the dorm room at 1," he said. 
"Students were alerted to be there early. The time was printed on the ticket. (Those who didn't get in to see the President) were people who came basketball style . . . at the last minute," Conklin said. 
Malloy had decided not to cancel classes for the event. Because the event was planned as a lunchtime event, Malloy said, there was no reason to cancel classes. "This was an­nounced enough in advance pleasure. Freshman Kathryn Pirrotta voi~ed her. dis~on~ent with the bcket dtstnbutwn. "Why did they issue so many tickets? They never gave any indication that there would not be enough seats." 
John Coughlin, also a fresh­man, said he was upset stu­dents were not given priority. "They should not have let South Bend people in before all stu­dents were seated. They could be there and skip work while we had classes. They should have at least cancelled classes after 11 a.m.," he said. 
Although Malloy claimed the priority was to have "students be the primary group in the 
tickets, the president's speech at­
arPna." most of those students 
turned away at the door said 
they felt otherwise. 
"They did not live up to their 
priority. It is our campus and 
Rockne was a great figure in 
Notre Dame history, but they 
showed no regard for the 
people who went to the trouble 
to get tickets. The University 
should apologize," said fresh­
man Lisa Gabany. 
Many students compared 
this event to Malloy's in­
auguration last September. 
Junior Suzanne Lutz, said, 
"Notre Dame usually or­
ganizes its events, like Monk's 
inauguration, very well, and the more I think about it, it's pretty shocking that the event was so poorly run." 
Pirrotta added, "If we can cancel class for Monk's in­auguration, we can cancel them when the President comes to town." 

On Notre Dame 
And I've always thought that it was no mere coincidence that the legend of George Gipp and Knute Rockne emerged from this great institution of higher learning. Notre Dame is renowned, not simply because of its academic excellence, but because it stands among the winds of subjectivity for lasting values and principles that are at the heart of our civilization, and on which all human prog­ress is built. 
Notre Dame not only ed­ucates, but guides its students in the development of honesty, courage, and all the other things we call character. Rockne once wrote, 

Reagan 
continued from page 1 
Regional Airport on a projec­tion screen television. 
Scenes from the movie were also shown, and Reagan, with recently installed Postmaster General Anthony Frank, un­veiled a poster-size version of the stamp. 
"We expect the Knute Rockne stamp to be the most popular of the commemora­tives," Frank said. We expect to sell 160 million Rockne stamps in the next two weeks, he added. 
"He was more than a coach," said Krause, a tackle on the last team Rockne coached, in 1930. "He helped us with our problems; he had a way of life." 
"(Rockne) was truly one of the prime reasons Notre Dame became recognized as one of the premier universities in our land," said Malloy. 
"Sportsmanship means fair play. It means having a little respect for the other fellow's point of view. It means a real application of the Golden Rule." 
And I know a fine example of this is the charitable care 80 of you students give the hand­icapped children at the Logan Center. This and other acts of good will say much about your generation. 
On schools 
Excellence too is returning to our schools. We've learned what's always been known here at Notre .Dame -that values are an essential part of educa­tional excellence. 
It is no coincidence that the legends of Rockne and Gipp emerged from Notre Dame, 
Reagan said. "Notre Dame is renowned, not simply because of its academic excellence," said Reagan, "but because it stands among the winds of sub­jectivity for lasting values and principles. 
Notre Dame not only ed­ucates, but guides its students in the development of honesty, courage and all the other things we call character." 
After his speech, Reagan was handed a football, which he threw into a group of football players in the crowd. To the delight of the audience, the ball was caught by Reisman Trophy winner Tim Brown. 
The ceremony ended after Malloy presented Reagan with a plaque bearing the words to the University's alma mater "Notre Dame, Our Mother." 

NDAVEAPTS. 
EARLY BIRD SPECIAL 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a10% discount 
CALL 234-6647 
Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 


HROAD TRIP SURVIVAL PACK" 
includes: iC Any 7" Sub ~ 1 bag of chips 
~ 1 tasty kake cupcakes ~ 1 can of soda 
All for ONLY $3.99 FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid Thursday 3-10 and 3-11 ONLY. 


------------------~--------­
Thursday, March 10, 1988 
The Observer page 7 








After Super Tuesday, Gore must widen appeal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In the next few weeks, AI Gore needs to prove what Mike Dukakis dem­onstrated on Super Tuesday ­that he can win outside his home region, that he's not just another favorite son. 
And now Dukakis has some­thing new to prove -that he can win primary after primary across the country, become the front-runner and build the mo­mentum to clinch the Demo­cratic nomination before the convention opens in August. 
No one is conceding an inch 
Would Jackson win 
nomination 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON~ He has charisma. He has issues. He doesn't flip flop. And, in the af­termath of Super Tuesday, he has a bushel of delegates. 
If Jesse Jackson were white, would he win the Democratic presidential nomination? 
"If he were white, he wouldn't be in the race," said Ben Wattenberg, a scholar at the American Enterprise In­stitute and co-editor of Public Opinion magazine. 
Wattenberg argued a black could be elected president in America in 1988, but not one with Jackson's lack of office­holding experience nor a ''blame-America-first business-bashing radical" like Jackson. 
"If Jackson were white, I think he'd be president," said Howard University political science professor Ronald Wal­ters, who was Jackson's deputy campaign manager in 1984 and is the author of a new book, "Black Presidential Politics in America." 
Walters said Jackson's expe­rience in the civil rights move­ment is more than equivalent to service in legislative halls and he has a electrifying 
BUS TRIP TO THE ART INSTITUTE AND MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART IN CHICAGO 
Sponsored by the Department of Art, Art History and Design, and the Office of the College Fellow. 
WHEN: Tuesday, March 22, 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM. WHERE: Two buses will leave from in front of the CCE at 9:00 AM and arrive back at Notre Dame at approximately 7:00 PM. COST: $8.00. TICKETS FOR THE TRIP may be purchased in Room 129 O'Shag, on Tuesday and Thursday from 8:00 to 4:30, and Wednesday and Friday from 8:00 to 12:00 noon. 
For more information call ext. 7602. 


to the Massachusetts governor, who now sports wins in the mega-states of Florida and Texas on Tuesday and a lead in delegates. 
The calendar should now give Dukakis a little edge, shift­ing from the Southern accents of Super Tuesday to some of the nation's toughest political battlegrounds -the big indus­trial states of Illinois, Mic­higan, Wisconsin, New York and Pennsylvania. 
As the governor of a major Northeastern industrial state with a strong ethnic back­ground, Dukakis should have 

if white? 
quality that cannot be dis­counted. 
"Charisma -say what you will, it still counts in politics," he said. "Just ask Ronald Reagan." 
Network polls said Jackson won between 8 and 10 percent of the white vote in the South on Super Tuesday -twice as much as four years ago. 
Jackson won 2.5 million of the 
9.4 million votes cast Tuesday -more than anyone else. 
Despite his showing, the con­ventional wisdom has been that whites won't vote for a black candidate in sufficient num­bers to elect a black president. Jackson's performance has reopened the debate about whe­ther a race-based barrier actu­ally exists. 
Jackson himself has acknowl­edged the handicap. In cam­paign speeches, he has cited an apocryphal conversation be­tween two hard-hit farmers in Iowa. One said to the other he likes Jackson's message and politics, "But ... " 
Declared Jackson: "I want those people to move from 'but' to 'therefore.' " 
Some surveys show 15 to 20 percent of the population would reject any black on racial grounds. 
less trouble speaking the voters' language in the upcom­ing states than he did in the South. 
Gore has exactly the opposite problem -he just had the con­tests in his best region and is now moving to less familiar ground. 
"What state is AI Gore going to win in the North?" is how Dukakis aide Leslie Dach posed the problem. 
Gore and Jesse Jackson each won a goodly share of the states and the delegates available Tuesday, splintering the stand­
-

ings among the Democratic hopefuls. 
That proved both are win­ners, essential to continuing in the race, even though the vic­tories were on home turf. 
But Dukakis proved more ­he won at home but also in the South, a region critical to the Democrats' hopes of regaining the White House. He showed he could win in a variety of regions of the country -from Texas to Washington. 
One big advantage Dukakis now has is his bank account. "We've got $2 million in the bank and $1 million more com­
ing  in  federal  matching  
money,"  Dach  said Wednes­ 
day.  

That, plus a well-regarded campaign organization, is a major advantage in big states where television advertising is expensive. 
Organization will be an asset in the major behind-the-scenes battle over the next two months that could be the key to the nomination. 
The next battleground is Illi­nois with two favorite sons on the ballot -Jackson and Sen. Paul Simon. 
Puttin' on the Ritz 

Saint Mary's students gather in the Haggar College Center to socialize with friends and finalize their break 

CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE The Historic Art Deco Train Station is a Great Place for Your Graduation Party We have halls available for small and large parties; 25 people to 600. Call 233-2876. 
Applies tons for 
JPW 




CHAIRPERSON 1989 
are available starting March 8 in Student Activities Office 
Due Monday, March 21 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

plans. The snack bar at Haggar is the perfect solution for the munchies. 

Telephone
.


repa1rmen surprised by lion 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-A brown lion surprised a telephone repair crew that arrived at an Indianapolis home to repair a downed line. 
"It was just a big old 225­pound puddy tat," said Dannie Carper, 51, an Indiana Bell cable repair supervisor in South Bend. 
Carper was among eight tele­phone company volunteers who came to Indianapolis from South Bend last weekend to help restore service after last Thursday's ice storm. 
He said some crew members discovered a downed telephone line in an alley last Sunday and climbed over a fence to inves­tigate. 
"They wrote on their work report, 'Lion in yard. No way,' " he said. 

~ -----~~ -~ ~-~~-----~---~--­

Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, March 10, 1988 
[____________P.__o_._B_ox__a___________ 
ping my classes find me? Standing inMiffed visit the lobby outside the arena unable to see the President! Thank you very
needs explaining much. 
I arrived at the Joyce ACC at 11:55.
Dear Editor: 
That was twenty full minutes before the A mere hour ago I had the privilege audience was to be seated. Many people of standing in line anxiously awaiting arrived after I did, and likewise, they probably my only opportunity to see the did not get in. We were all forced toPresident of the United States, Ronald stand in the lobby and struggle to hearReagan. As I reached the front of the the processions through · only slightlyline, I, along with two hundred or so held-open doors. If anyone in chargeother students, was told that all seats had any intelligence, they would have were filled and no one else was to be set up television monitors in the lobby allowed in. I returned to my room with for the overflow of people to watch.
others who, like myself, voiced their Whomever was in charge, I think hedisappointment in the apparent lack of deserves a raise. Not only were tooorganization for such a great event. 
many tickets given out, but groups notI, like other students, had gone to the associated with the University, namely trouble of obtaining a ticket for the Saint Mary's College students andRockne Memorial Stamp Commemora­South Bend residents, were allowed into tion at which the president was speak­the ceremony while many Notre Dame ing on the first day they were available. 
students could not get in. This is ourFurthermore, I, as did others, skipped University, and this ceremony was forclass in order to be able to attend the one of our University's greats. Saintevent. Finally, I was in line to be seated Mary's is not part of this University,a good twenty-five minutes before the and therefore should not have been al­time that everyone was to be seated. 
lowed to attend until every Notre Dame Despite these actions on my part and student who wished to atttend wasthe other students who, like myself, seated. As for South Bend residents,were turned away, I was unable to at­they are even less affiliated with thetend the event. 
University than Saint Mary's College This apparent lack of organization is, and their participation was evenleaves me angry and confused. Who more ludicrous! The inclusion of these was in charge of ticket distribution, and two groups left one hundred or so Notrewhy did they grossly overestimate the Dame students out in the cold! 
seating capacity of our own Joyce ACC? 
Furthermore, during the course ofWhy weren't the students told at the the ceremony, the crowd of disgruntledthat door that all seats were filled in­students dwindled down to a total of 23stead of being forced to wait inside for (yes, I counted). But we were still nottwenty minutes only to be told to go allowed into the arena because it would home? Answers must be given and ex­cause a "major fire hazard." Give meplanations must be made. Most of you a break! How twenty people added tospent the afternoon getting the rare op­twelve thousand can cause a significant portunity to hear the President of the increase in danger is beyond me!
United States speak to you in person. 
And finally, I would also like to thank The rest of us went home discouraged the small group of girls in the lobbyand disappointed. 
who refused to keep their fat traps shut 
Lisa M. Gabany 
while the rest of us strained to hear 
Lewis Hall 
President Reagan. Thanks for being so 
March 9, 1988 
considerate! And thanks again to all of those in

Ticket excesses charge! 
John Coughlin


a true fiasco Cavanaugh Hall 
March 9, 1988 

Dear Editor: 
I have just returned from the Knute 

Act in 'RebuttaI'
Rockne Stamp Dedication, and there 
are a few issues I would like to discuss. 

went too far
To begin, it is not every day that the 
President of the United States, the most Dear Editor: important man in America, comes to What a refreshing change the Keenan Notre Dame. Many people, myself in­Rebuttal was! This campus is full of cluded, have never seen the President real talent, and I was happy to have in person, and this was a great chance seen and heard some of it. Too bad, to do so. I believe, and I'm sure I'm not though, there was a rotten egg amidst alone in this view, that the administra­it all because one good comedienne has tion should have cancelled classes, or to include a string of tasteless jokes at least the ones in the afternoon. But, about one of this University's most as is obvious, they did not, thereby respected institutions. I am talking, of giving me the impression that they feel course, about Jane Ricciardi and her a day's classes are more important vicious attack on Dr. Emil T. Hofman. than watching our President honor Let me first make clear that I have Knute Rockne. Nevertheless, I skipped. a very neutral opinion of Dean Hofman. 
This brings me to my major point. I Since I was never in his class, I have would like to thank the University for limited sources from which to draw printing many more tickets than the one. Based on all I've seen and heard arena would hold. So where did skip-of him over the past three-and-a-half 
Doonesbury 
'51[)5, U IAERE 
ll?.YIN6 70BU/W 
UPA BeTTER 
atl3NT& H£R&. 
HAVING A 8/G 
C&L&8 COM£3/N ~ 
AUIIAY5 
H/31..P5. 
years, I sense he is a sincere, well­
intentioned, unique man with a few per­AIDS issue hurt 
sonality quirks or a teaching style that 
rub some people the wrong way. Others by homophobia
love him immensely. 
The point is, I'm not writing to defend Dear Editor: Chris Julka's inside 
Dean Hofman because I'm crazy about column of March 7, "AIDS crisis poli­
him and I was personally hurt. Rather, tical not medical" displays a distress­
I was offended by Ricciardi's tasteless ingly profound ignorance of some of the 
words that went far beyond the limits facts surrounding the epidemic. This 
of good-humored jesting when such needs correction. 
terms as "anti-Christ" were used to He claims that "anyone who tries to 
describe Dean Hofman. To repeat all suggest that lives may be saved by cur­
of her insults verbatim would only ex­bing homosexual conduct is instantly 
tend the tastelessness and further condemned as homophobic.'' This is un­
defame the Dean. true. AIDS education programs, sup­
Miss Ricciardi was funny. I was ported by and directed to the gay com­laughing wholeheartedly until a point. munity, have been extremely effective I think my reaction was mutual, as in modifying behavior away from high­evidenced from the audience. To have risk sexual activity. This is indicated made these jokes when Dean Hofman by a lower rate of now positive tests was not present would have been bad for antibodies to the HIV virus, as well enough. But his obvious presence and as a drop of 90 percent in new cases of the fact that he was filming the show other sexually transmitted diseases in made the attack more personal and the gay populations in large urban areas. whole situation uncomfortable. One The AIDS prevention message has been only had to turn his or her head to wit­told, heard and put to work in the gay ness Dean Hofman's stonefaced reac­community. tion. Unfortunately, it is true that anyone 
I want to express my disapproval of who tries to suggest that lives may be her being awarded the second-place, saved by curbing heterosexual conduct $75 prize in the comedy bracket. I en­is instantly condemned as alarmist, ir­courage Miss Ricciardi to continue de­rational or, much worse, opposed to the veloping her comic talent, which was sexual revolution. Sexually active impressive at times, but I also ask her heterosexuals are at high risk for con­to consider the possible damage that tracting AIDS; this risk is further en­can be done to others when the material hanced by their general refusal, thus lacks conscientious evaluation. The far, to realize this. Mr. Julka should stage is not the place for personal ven­redirect his anger and frustration to the dettas. heterosexual population. 
Colleen M. A. Burke Also, Mr. Julka speaks of 
Breen-Phillips Hall "anonymous AIDS testing centers" 
March 7, 1988 that are not really so, immediately re­
ferring to hospitals that report AIDS 
cases to the state. This reflects a basic
Students of NO confusion of the medical and clinical 
issues related to AIDS.


merit priority 
Testing centers do not test for AIDS. Dear Editor: They test for the presence of antibodies 
Words cannot express my bitter dis-to the HIV viurs believed to be the cause appointment upon refusal of admit-of AIDS. A positive antibody test means tance to the Knute Rockne Stamp that the person has been exposed to the Dedication. Because too many tickets virus; it does not mean that he or she were issued, those who arrived around has the disease or will necessarily 
12: 00 because of mid-terms and classes develop it. An anonymous testing cen­were not permitted to witness the cer-ter has no record of a test subject's emony. identity, and thus cannot report an 
Blind rage was my first reaction antibody-positive person's name to the when I discovered that lack of organi-state or to anyone else. At reputable zation and stupidity prevented my ob-testing centers, all persons are coun­servance of President Reagan's select regarding their antibody status speech. For such a prestigious occa-and the importance of avoiding high­sion, one would surely think that the risk activity. number of seats available would be im-Mr. Julka apologizes for his lack of portant. As a student at Notre Dame, compassion and his homophobia. He I expect to be accorded with the needn't bother--these are unforgiveable priveleges of my position. If only a lim-anyway. He should, though, apologize ited number of seats were available, for his ignorance about AIDS, and for tickets should have been distributed daring to write a column broadcasting only to Notre Dame students and fac-it to the campus. Some may say that ulty and not residents of South Bend or what you don't know can't hurt you; students at Saint Mary's. For those who but with AIDS, what you don't know did witness the ceremony, it is difficult can kill you. Let us pray that all of us to understand the overwhelming continue to become better informed resentment of those that did not. about this disease. 
Kathryn Pirrotta Richard G.G. Beatty 
Pasquerilla West Off-campus 
March 9, 1988.---__________M_a_r_c_h_8.:..,_19---.88 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day
HEY, Y()(} 5/JRE I'M PRO­
TCC.TW BY 7H& FIRST AMEN{)M&NT H/3R&? on.= \ rv::1/T/VC.. 

lilii ~ 
/J ... "" 

"Anticipating is even more fun than recollecting." 
Malcolm S. Forbes, Sr. 
ViewpointThursday, March 10, 1988 
page 9 

man Year of Studies and Brownson Hall was once home to those Sisters of the Holy Cross. Notre Dame could never have grown as it did without the "cheap" but loving service of those Sisters. 
Advancing age, declining numbers and the changing role of women neces­sitated their withdrawal in 1958 and the closing of the convent. As Father Ed­mund Burke, C.S.C., said then: "There seems to have been not a single facet of Notre Dame life which the influence of the Sisters did not touch." "Virtually exclusive of the endeavors of women" indeed! 
And all this service for years before women were even admitted as stu­dents! 
Sister M. Campion Kuhn, C.S.C. General Archivist Sisters of the Holy Cross March 8, 1988 

Reagan's visit a symbolic act 
NO has  always  
involved  women  
Dear Editor:  

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Peter Walshe's March 4 article describing Ronald Reagan's visit as a "deep em­barrassment for many at the Univer­sity." Mr. Walshe's further disrespect goes on to state President Reagan as a "promoter of much misery coming to celebrate a nostalgic unreality," as well as the "user of Notre Dame as a prop!" 
First, I cannot believe that an indi­vidual would state that the President's visit to Notre Dame would be an em­barrassment. I feel I am speaking for most people when I say I am more proud in telling people that the Presi­dent of the United States is presenting himself at the University I attend. However wrong Mr. Reagan may be in some of his policies, this gives no rea­son to view his visit as an embarrass­ment. 
Second, Mr. Walshe is disrespectful enough to view Mr. Reagan as coming to celebrate a nostalgic unreality. I ask, what do Ronald Reagan's policies as president have to do with the nostalgia of Knute Rockne and the Gipper? Cer­tainly, they do not make it an "un­reality." 
Finally, in no way does Mr. Walshe have the right to state the president as the user of Notre Dame as a prop! I believe Notre Dame went to great lengths in inviting Reagan to our Uni­versity. How does this make the pres­ident a "user" of Notre Dame? I cannot understand Mr. Walshe's reasoning. 
Granted, many may disagree with some of Ronald Reagan's policies. However, in no way does this give Mr. Walshe the ability to state these opinions pertaining to the President's visit to Notre Dame. 
Donald P. Murphy Grace Hall March 9, 1988 

Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of peo­ple who feel t h e i r opinions do make a difference. Write to P.O. Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Women crucial in growth of NO 
Dear Editor: 
I refer you to the issue of The Obser­ver containing a letter written by Mr. Bill Sammon of Alumni Hall entitled "Notre Dame tradition built by men." Now allow me to quote from the letter: "So before Miss Seiger again tries to make the Notre Dame tradition so ex­clusive, let her remember that the great tradition and name characterized by its universal appeal that she holds so dear was one built by men, virtually exclusive of women." Obviously Mr. Sammon took little or no pains to ed­ucate himself or his readers of the his­torical contribution that lay women and the Sisters of the Holy Cross in partic­ular have given through the years to the religiosity, tradition, spirit and the living heritage that has brought the University to her most exalted and lofty height. If I fail to speak out, these very stones that comprise many of these buildings on the campus will surely cry out for redress. 
Here are some facts regarding the contribution that our Sisters of the Holy Cross and lay womem down through the years, both living and deceased, have given by their very life's blood tr this very unique instituiton of higher learning. As Sergeant Friday would say, "Just the facts, ma'am, just the facts." So let it be known that it is true that the Rev. Father Edward Sorin founded the Ave Maria magazine, but it was Mother Angela Gilliespie, CSC, who edited and enlisted writers for this publication. It was slso the Sisters of the Holy Cross who did much of the manual work in assembling the maga­zine and sending it on it's way. It was the Sisters of the Holy Cross, too, who did the cooking for the students' table so that they would graduate from the University healthy, wealthy and more wise than when they arrived. It was the sisters for more than 100 years sorted the soiled linen and clothing of the stu­dents and faculty. The sisters did much of the house cleaning chores that today has been taken over by men and wo­men. It was also the loving care and solicitude of the Sisters of the Holy Cross who nursed the sick and infirm students and faculty back to health in the infirmary. Down through the years and up to the present time it is the Sisters of the Holy Cross who spend hours before the Blessed Sacrament with rosary in hand praying for the suc­cess of Notre Dame's athletic fortunes. I might add that I have spent the last 40 years of my life in, near or around Notre Dame so I do have a pretty good picture of Notre Dame's glorious past, and the people who are responsible for that history. Indeed we trod on holy ground, hallowed by the feet and person of the holy women of God. 
Brother Edward Courtney, C.S.C. 
Columba Hall 
March 8, 1988 

Rumor about NO men not news 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the March 3 article entitled "Attractiveness Sur­vey Reportedly a Rumor." I am amazed that there was so little news from the previous day that The Obser­ver felt compelled to devote a portion of its front page to a description of the fictional results of a non-existent sur­vey. Surely the passage of the Civil 
Rights Restoration Act (detailed on 
page 6) and the University's receiving 
more than three million dollars in 
grants during January (described on 
page 7) are events more worthy of 
priority coverage than a campus rumor 
about the appearance of Notre Dame 
men. This is especially true because 
the rumor has been repeatedly refuted 
by the magazines that are said to have 
conducted the imaginary survey. 
Printing this article and placing it on 
the front page of the paper served no 
other purpose than to breathe addi­
tional life into an unfounded rumor and 
perhaps to inflate the egos of some 
Notre Dame men. The inclusion of the 
closing remark of Bill Dunn about 
Notre Dame women increases the 
stupidity of the article and helps to per­
petuate the ridiculous rifts that exist 
between men and women on campus. 
Dunn says nothing newsworthy in his 
closing remark because he simply 
rewords the lame sexist idea of humor 
that serves as the basis of so many 
campus jokes. 
Dunn reveals his ignorance when he says that the rumor "seems like it is true since everyone's been saying it." The Observer should not have been equally ignorant. Articles like the one of March 3 should not be published if The Observer is to be anything other than a glorified gossip column. 
Catherine Skahan Lyons Hall March 7, 1988 


Reagan's career has many facets 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing you in regards to Pro­fessor Peter Walshe's letter on Presi­dent Reagan's visit. It seems Professor Walshe shows a great amount of knowl­edge of the South African issue while at the same time seems completely ig­norant in his knowledge of American presidents. To say President Reagan is "one of the worst presidents in living memory" is ludicrous. I wonder if P1 o­fessor W alshe has ever heard of Pres­ident Jimmy Carter, or maybe Nixon rings a bell? Does John F. Kennedy and the Cuban Missile Crisis sound familiar? Does the word "Watergate" mean anything to Professor W alshe? How about "I am not a crook." That's one of my favorites; it really made the United Sttes look good in the eyes of the world. I am no historian nor do I have a vast expanse of political knowl­edge. However I do know that the self esteem of many Americans has been magnified in the past eight years. Un­employment has dropped, and I don't have to wait hours to get the gas which I can barely afford. Rather than a pas­sive government, we now have one which takes action. This is quite evident in the situation of terrorism. Does the word Kadafi ring a bell, Professor Walshe? Last I heard he was driving through prison walls. That's a lot better than world terrorism. One could say that Kadafi's war on America has been stifled for the moment. 
Granted there are problems (lrangate) in the Reagan system but to say he is one of the worst presidents in living memory is uncalled for. The issue of apartheid is something I too disagree with, but divestment is not the solution. Divestment would hurt black South Africans rather than help them. Divestment would take away jobs. Jobs held by black South Africans. There must be a better way to fight apartheid. Perhaps U.S. involvement in South Africa could increase but divestment is clearly not the answer. Maybe Profes­sor Walshe could say that President Reagan is one of the worst American presidents ever to deal with the issue of apartheid, but to say he is one of the worst American presidents in history 
is an opinion based on one single emo­tional conflict. It would be nice, Pro­fessor Walshe, if you could describe Reagan's career based on one single fact, then maybe you could solve the South African issue with one single so­lution. With one fact Professor Walshe makes a broad generalization. Isn't that what prejudice is all about? The blacks are suppressed because of one fact, their color. There are many ways to describe a person's career and many ways to try to solve a problem. Unfor­tunately Professor Walshe favors a one dimensional method in his description of Reagan and his solution for South Africa. 
David DiLuciano Pangborn Hall March 8, 1988 
I would like to take issue with Bill Sammon's statement in The Observer of March 4. Much of what he says is true, although it was Rockne himself and the team which put Notre Dame on the sports map. Later in his letter he made a sweeping statement that is very false. The great tradition of Notre Dame, he says, was "built by men, vir­tually exclusive of the endeavors of wo­men." 
Can you imagine Notre Dame without hot, cooked meals three times a day, fresh ironed sheets every week: clean, mended clothes; and devoted nursing even in epidemics like that of 1918? Can you envisage Notre Dame without bread for all the daily masses, some­times as many as 40,000 hosts each week? Could The Ave Maria Press, publisher of a national magazine for more than one hundred years, function without operators for the press? Could St. Edward's have educated hundreds of minims, among them the great juvenile Judge Ben Lindsay, without teachers? If a university of men can exist without these services, then Notre Dame was built exclusively by men. In fact, however, the Sisters of the Holy Cross performed these necessary ser­vices for over one hundred years. 
Father Sorin reached the small mis­sion of Notre Dame in November of 1842. The University considers that date as its establishment. The very next month, Father Sorin wrote to Father Moreau, his superior general, for sisters whose presence was "greatly desired." Four of them came in July of 1843 and found that their only living space was the loft above the log chapel. From that time onward, Notre Dame relied on the Sisters of the Holy Cross. So greatly did Sorin recognize this de­pendency that when education ab­sorbed more and more of the sisters and he had to hire women--such an expense! ! --he founded a separate novitiate to train sisters to work exclu­sively for Notre Dame. It continued to function until Rome ordered it closed in 1889. The sisters, however, continued to work there. At one time there were well over one hundred Sisters of the Holy Cross living and working there. The entire complex of buildiongs be­hind the Administration Building housing the Earth Sciences, the Fresh-
Editorial Board Operations Board

Ihe Observer 
Business Manager . . . .. ... John Oxnder Managing Editor .... Mark Pankowski 
Editor-in-Chiel.-... . .Kevm Becker Adl'ertising Design Manager .... ...... Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
Advertising Manager....... . . . .. . . . . Steve Clark News Edif!or .. . . . .... ..... . . . . .hm Riley 
News Editor..... . ........•. . Chns Bednarski 
Production Manager... . . . . Melissa Warnke V-point Editor .. ..... . ..Chns Murphy 
Projects Manager... ... . . . .... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer is lhe ondependent newspaper published by the students of the University ol 
Systems MaRager . . . ..... Shawn Sexton
Spotts Editor .....•..................... ..... Dermos Comgan
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies ol Controller. .... .. . . .. ..... .. . . .... Tracy Schindele
Accent EdiliY.............................. Michael Naughkln
the admonistratoon of erther onstrtution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Grr.phic Arts Manager.... ... . . . . .. Laura StantonSaint M..-y's Editor . Sandy Cenmele
possible. Uns1gned edotonals represent the opinion of the ITI8IOritY of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Ed""'.............. Jom Carroll
Commentanes. leiters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space os avaolable to all members of the school community. and the free expression ol varying opinions 
Founded Nowember 3, 1988 
on campus. through leiters. is encouraged 

Thursday, March 10, 1988 The 



A banner day for Gipp! 

r 
' 
~ 
r 

-
-

Accent
A country of the young 
page 12 Thursday, March 10, 1988 

Decently, on a radio program ~lied "The Children's Hour," I've been featuring the "Chronicles of Narnia," by C. S. Lewis. Narnia is a land of the  ress." In writing the · "Chronicles," Lewis created a fantasy world in which the reli­gious mythology of Christians has its Narnian parallels: Nar­ Notre Dame, like Narnia, is a country of the young. To those who love the Emerald City, Notre Dame is more like Narnia than it is like Oz. In our rest­ was pre-Christian. The pres­ence of magic makes the Nar­nian adventures highly intense, thereby heightening the war­fare beween good and evil.  error. Like heroes in a chronicle of magic, they jump to conclusions they"re ready to die for. They're too idealistic to compromise themselves in a  
imagination belonging to children which you get to by  nia, too, has its original sin and a fall from grace. Asian,  less search for metaphors describing this mythical place,  Narnia lasted 2, 555 years. We are present when Asian  bargain with the devil, in the hope he will leave them in  
magic.  dying an atoning death to save  we could identify Notre Dame  sings the hymn of creation that  peace. After a winter on these  
as the Narnia we pass through  brings Narnia into existence;  acres that will soon be as  
Father Robert Griffin  on our quest for Shangri-la. As you go back to the "real" world for spring break. you could  and in the final chronicle, we read of the destruction of Nar­nia when Asian retires the stars  green as Narnia, has some of the magic from a country of the young rubbed off? Will they  
Letters to a Lonely God  keep Narnia in mind as a model for this campus where  from the sky. Yet Narnian calendars bear no relationship  re-enter the real world enabled from spending time in the land  
Asian, the Lion of Judah, is at  to English time. In the world of  of the Lion?  
In the first chronicle, "The  Edmund from paying the price  home under another name.  the children, only 49 years  Notre Dame is not heaven,  
Lion, the Witch, and the Ward­ of his sin, undergoes a  Could you say that one of the  elapse from the morning of  and neither was old Narnia, in  
robe," we meet Peter, Susan,  deliverance from death, and  reasons you came to Notre  Creation to the day of doom,  the Shadow Land which Asian  
Lucy, and Edmund, siblings  deals with Narnians as their  Dame is that by knowing Him  when Asian closes the door  destroyed. The real Narnia still  
who first enter Narnia through  resurrected God.  here for a while, you might  between England and the not­ exists in Asian's country. Per·  
the back of a curious old ward­ In the third chronicle, Asian  know Him better out there?  hingness to which Narnia has  haps in God's mind, Notre  
robe, made from the wood of a  describes Narnia as a country  been reduced. Magic easily  Dame exists in a more perfect  
tree grown from a silver apple  of the young. Lucy, about to  Asian brings the children of  removes the obstacles from  version, and not as a reflection  
seed from a garden of  return to England with the  Adam to Narnia to undergo  condensing history.  on the wall of a cave. This is  
paradise. In Narnia, the  other children, asks, "Will you  adventures which expose them  Lewis' fantasy is quite differ·  what old grads sigh for--if  
children are destined to be  tell us when we can come back  to hardships and dangers help­ ent from the flow of time at  they"re not cynical--as they try  
high kings and queens of a  to Narnia again?"  ful in making them grow up.  Notre Dame, where magic  to return to the past as though  
country populated by dwarfs,  "Dearest," said Asian, very  Called to be kings and queens,  takes place mostly in the  Shangri-la happened yesterday,  
unicorns, fauns, centaurs,  gently, "you and your brother  the children mature gracefully  spring and the fall. Still, there  when the world was young.  
wood sprites, talking animals,  will never come back to Nar­ in their royal vocations through  are parallels, though it would  Notre Dame, as it exists in  
and other fanciful creatures,  nia... You are too old, and must  the seven books. The  take a tour de force without  the mind of God, extends all  
good and evil, as well as men  begin to come close to your  "Chronicles" are not sentimen­ merit to spell them out.  the way to the real world. As  
and women of high or humble  own world now."  tal tales about an enchanted  Students, wanting to adopt  the children of Adam dis­ 
estate.  "It isn't Narnia, you know,"  place in the woods where a boy  Narnia as a personal myth,  covered when they came to  
When the children arrive,  sobbed Lucy. "It's you. We  and his Pooh-bear are always  should read the "Chronicles."  Asian's country, Narnia lies very  
Narnia is blanketed with the  shan't meet you there. And  playing, nor are they comic  Going home for break. they  close to home. But you have to  
snows of an eternal winter im­ how can we live, never meeting  masterpieces centered on the  shouldn't write off Notre Dame  leave home like a space­ 
posed by the wicked White  you?"  adventures of Mr. Toad and the  as Never-neverland, where boys  traveller in order to find home  
Witch, a self-proclaimed queen.  "But you shall meet me, dear  river-bank animals met in  won't grow up, and Peter Pan  again, as a country of the  
Their ally in liberating Narnia  one," said Asian.  "Wind In The Willows."  at 80 still has his baby teeth.  young Lion.  
from the Witch is Asian the  "Are--are you there too, sir?"  Narnia is not a sentimental  In the Narnia of one's choice,  If all these images of Narnia  
Lion, Son of the Emperor­ said Edmund.  place, and Asian isn't an indul­ or in the real world, it's still the  leave you bored or confused,  
Beyond-the-Sea and a Christ­ "I am," said Asian. "But there  gent teacher. The villains of  same old story, the search for  let me say it plainly: you're  
figure incarnate as the King of  I have another name. You must  Narnia aren't as grotesque as  love and glory...on that you  Notre Dame's ambassador,  
Beasts.  learn to know me by that  the monsters Tolkein created in  may rely.  wherever you go. At home on  
Narnia is not another dream­ name. This was the reason why  "Lord of the Rings," but they  Students, staying young,  break, don't leave your folks  
land, like Oz, or the symbol in  you were brought to Narnia,  are perhaps more metaphysi­ have a passion for over­ with the impression that you're  
an allegory of the struggle be­ that by knowing me here for a  cally wicked, and therefore  simplifying, as though it were  paying your tuition fees to be­ 
tween good and evil like the  while, you may know me better  more dangerous; however, the  easy to tell black from white,  come a piece ofjunk. May the  
place-names in "Pilgrims' Prog­ there."  elementary world of Tolkein  right from wrong, truth from  grace of Asian be with you.  
Kodak ~aptures  interest  
of amateurs  
Associated Press  month include cameras and  the 1988 Olympic Games, is  
Eastman Kodak Company is celebrating the 1OOth year  films that still encourage the inexperienced photographer to  designed to introduce young picture-takers to the delights of  
of the snapshot with the intro­ just "press the button" and let  photography.  
duction of new cameras and  Kodak do the rest.  "Many adults have fond recol­ 
film.  Eastman would be proud of  lections of receiving their first  
In June 1888, at a time when  the new Kodak Fling 35, a  camera which, in many cases,  
photography was still primarily  throwaway camera that con­ was a Kodak." said a Kodak  
a complicated and cumber­ tains 24-exposure Kodacolor  spokesman. "With the Winner  
some wet plate process,  ISO 400 film. Last year, Kodak  camera, we are building on  
George Eastman introduced the  introduced a Fling camera  that tradition."  
first Kodak camera. It was a  utilizing 11 0-size film. The step  The Winner, designed for  
box-type camera, light weight,  up to 35mm size should im­ children ages 5-12, uses ISO  
small in size, and loaded with  prove picture quality con­ 200 or 400 film and accepts an  
a roll of light-sensitive emul­ siderably.  8-bulb or a I0-bulb flip-flash  
sion on stripping paper long  With the Fling 35, you just  for indoor photography. It will  
enough for I 00 exposures. The  take the pictures and turn the  be available in red or blue and  
price of the loaded camera,  camera over to the processor  in a package that contains a  
- including a shoulder strap, was $25.  to get your prints. No, you don't get the camera back. The  24-exposure roll of Kodacolor film and a book of rebate  
After exposure, the camera  Fling 35 can't be re-loaded like  coupons worth $5 on Kodak  
was sent to Rochester, N.Y.,  Eastman's original camera.  film and battery purchases.  
where the exposed strip was  You'll have to buy another.  A step up from the Winner is  
removed, developed, and  However, at a suggested price  Kodak's new 35mm 51 OOEF  from one lens to the other so  in America and has a sugges­ 
printed, and a new one was  of $8.35 (you'll find it cheaper  camera, an inexpensive manual  that the user can compare  ted list price of $299.99.  
inserted for $10.  at discount stores), it's an af­ camera featuring a built-in  images in the viewfinder before  
That Kodak camera created  fordable alternative when  electronic flash and lens cover,  taking the picture.  Also scheduled for introduc­ 
an entirely new market for  you're on vacation and your  a 35mm f4.5 fixed-focus lens,  Some of the other features  tion at the Photo Marketing  
people who had no special  camera breaks down. It's also a  and a suggested price tag of  found on the S900 Tele camera  Association show are new gold  
knowledge of photography but  perfect camera for the beach,  $59.95. It will be available in  include: auto-advance of the  Kodak film packages. Now  
who wanted to take pictures.  boating or skiing.  either red or black.  film to the first frame after the  known as Kodacolor VR-G I 00,  
Anybody could "press the but­ Another camera being intro­ At the top of the ladder of  film is loaded and the shutter  200 and 400 films will become  
- ton," and Eastman's company  duced at the Photo Marketing  the new cameras is the Kodak  button is depressed; automatic  Kodacolor Gold 100, 200, and  
"would do the rest."  Association show is the Kodak  S900 Tele camera. It features  sensing of the film ISO speed  400 films. The premier I00  
Kodak has come a long way  Winner camera, a compact  two lenses: a 34mm wide angle  with DX coded films; automatic  ISO film will be an improved  
since 1888. The new Kodak  Olympic-themed edition of its  fixed-focus lens and a 62mm  flash when it's needed (which  version. Kodak says the others  
products being introduced at  popular 11 0-format camera.  three-zone autofocus telephoto  can be turned off with a defeat  will essentially be the same  
the Photo Marketing Associa­ The new Winner, which show­ lens. A flip of a switch on the  switch); auto-advance; and  films with, perhaps, some im­ 
tion show in Chicago this  cases Kodak's participation in  camera flops a mirror inside  rewind and exposure. It's made  provements later.  

Thursday, March 10, 1988 
The Observer 
pa e 13 

Sports Briefs 
UMOC and Company defeated Eight Bumps and a Spike 2-1 to win the water volleyball championshi!J. -The Observer 
The Rockne Memorial pool will be open today from 7-9 a.m. and from 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Over Spring Break, the pool will be open from 7-9 a.m. Monday, March 14 through Friday March 18. Rolfs Aquatic Center will be open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. today. It will also be open tomorrow and Sunday, as well as next Saturday and Sun­day, from 1-5 p.m. and will be open Monday through Friday from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
Aerobic instructor applications are now available at non-varsity athletics for 1988-89 positions. Interested students students should submit their applications no later April 1. Call 239-6400 for more information. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
SObering Advice;: 
can saveal~::,:cr 1 
Think BefOre You Drink ~~ BefOre You Drive ~ 
Fencers get set for NCAA's 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
Done. It looks like, of NCAA sports under close kept scrutiny, only the Notre Dame fencing teams have emerged without conflict as they enter post-season play. 
The regular season's surprises have provided mixed results for both the men's and women's teams. The defending NCAA champion women ap­pear disadvantaged without number two starter Janice Hynes. The men's team, on the other hand, finished fourth at the NCAAs last year but have seen a few pleasant surprises come about through the efforts of a fairly young team. 
The lack of any clear-cut favorites entering the NCAA Championships this month at Princeton only serves to en­hance the ambiguity. Nonetheless, fencing coaches Michael DeCicco and Yves Auriol feel that they are sen­ding two very competitive teams. 
"I feel as confident today as I did two years ago when (the men's team) won it," said DeCicco. "Both the men and the women have a very good chance of making a big splash at the NCAAs this year." 

Top competitors on the wo­men's team include captain and All-American Molly Sul­livan and junior Anne Barreda, winner of last week's NCAA Midwest Regional. Both partic­ipated in last year's NCAA tournament. 
The men will send six qualifiers, two in each of the three weapons. The foil parti­cipants of senior Y ehuda Kovacs and freshman Phil Leary will be one of the strongest weapons for the Irish men. In sabre, it will be unde­feated freshman Lesek Nowosielski and second-year man Danny Yu. The epee squad will feature juniors Ted Fay and Todd Griffee. 
The coaches know that the both teams are within reach of a national championship. 
"Training is one thing," said DeCicco, "but once they're ready, we've got to pump these kids up by letting them know that they are capable of per­forming their best. They must feel that every touch could take the national championship away from the team." 
In order to do this, it will be necessary for the Irish women to perform like the champion­ship form they are known for. And while DeCicco does not list three gold medals in the mens' weapons as his highest priority, he emphasizes the need to finish high in all three divisions. For the Irish head co­ach, the right time is now. 
"I always say that in order to win next year's champion­ship, the kids must begin think­ing about it an hour after we finish the NCAAs in Prince­ton," said DeCicco. "But I don't want to worry about next year. I want it this year. I want our team to want it this year." 
Teams will converge on Princeton, NJ, for the NCAA Championships from March 21­26. 
n.a.--Notre Dwne office, located on lfMI third floor of LaFortune Stu· ct.nt Center, KC:ePb claaalfted 81M!rt!alng from 10 a.m. untll4 p.m., Moodily through Friday. The a.--Saint Mery's office, located on the third floor of H-uo-Collge Center, accepts claaa.IHeds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claaalfleds·ls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must
Classifieds be prepUI, either In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five chancters per "-Y­
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING· TYPING 272-ll827 
Get ready lor Sprong Break by selling unwanted class books lor $$$ al Pan· dora's Books 808 Howard ( 1 block off NO Ave) Open 7 day&' week 1 0·5:30 
FAST, QUALITY TYPING S11PG. 258­4843 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
NEED RIDE 

FROM PITTSBURGH 
alter sprmg break! 
Can you help me out??? II so. please 
call Kev1n at 239-5303. I w111 greatly ap­
preciate it . 
LOST/FOUND 
LOSTI LOSTII LOST II 
I LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAD­
SET ON WEDNESDAY, J.-2,118. 
WHERE? IN THE VARSrTY 
WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASE! 
IF YOU 
PICKED IT UP, CALL ME TO RETURN 
IT. IT WOULD BE GREATLY 
APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY 
FRIEND. 
THANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1382 
i:~;i:;;;~~~-~i~;-·;;~~···o;;··;;;; ..·;;;~;·; ..i~ 
the huddle or on the way to Keenan. It has my name 1n rt, so 11 you find 11 PLEASE g1ve me a Cllll The REWARD could provide lor an exc1t1ng spr~ng break.£1239 
HELPIII LOST WATCH A GRUEN WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. MAYBE LOST IN BRIGETS. VERY HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF· FERED. IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT CALL 277-3226 
FOUND: WATCH IN ENGINEERING AUD. ON THURS. MARCH 3 CALL 3702 
LOST: My camera from 205 of the first building of Campuavlew Saturday night. Pteaae return lt. Brand new gift from my Dad. Cell 27Hl844. 
Fou·Nc;:o;;;:;;;·i:~~-£352: ..F~~;;d·;~..;;;;;;, 
of Moreau Seminary on St. Joe's Lake Call Jim Palmer al239-n35. 
LOST ONE PAIR OF SILVER PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN A BLUE HARD CASE. LOST AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME BETWEEN THE ACC AND THE MAIN CIRCLE. PLEASE CALL JOE AT 4642. 
who have not given within 30-daya will tMo paid 512, ceah alter donating If you bring In thla ad. Come to Amelcan Pl..ma on Tueeday, Wedneeday, Friday or Saturday. 515 Llncolnway Weal, South Bend, 234-8010. 
lOST: TWO CALCULATORS ON THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 26TH I THINK AT THE NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL GAME. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 1075. 
RESORT HOTELS, Crulaellnea,Airilneo & Amusement Parka NOW accepting application• lor summer jobs,lnternahlpa and career posl11ona.For Information & appllca· lion, wrl1a National Collegiate Recrea­tion, P.O.Box 8074, Hilton Head la­tand,SC 29938. 
NEED RIDE FROM PITTSBURGH ON SUNDAY, MARCH 20. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 271-0658. 
WINNETKA, IL lam lkg lor dey11me alu· dent ao oummer girl. 312-446-3171 
eves. 

I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAN[)IAKRON AREA for sprong break. I will share expenses. Call Dave at x4779 
CAMPUS ENTREPRENEUR SOUGHT: Pay Tuition or Raise Money Selling to Alumni with thla Proven Product: Plaatlc Pocket-Sized Fleak. Cuatom Hot Stamped lor Frate. Call lor Details: (312) 472-8427 Jim. 
FOR SALE 
1979 Toyota Calle a Ha1chback, S1,000, 239-6859 (day), 2n·9834 (night). 
LOSTIT'AKENII! dark blue Allergan make­up bag from the lost and found box ol 1st lloor O'Shag. It was only missing lor an hour, yet it was lilted. What good are my cosmetics going to do you?l The re­placement cosl will be near $75. Call upon your sense of decency and please return the Items to 1st lloor O'Shag, the lost and found, or 112 Lyon&' £2903. Thanks! 
LOST AQUA·BLUOOFF-WHITE SCARF MADE IN SCOTLAND TAG LOST THURS 3-3-87 BETWEEN DOME, BOOKSTORE, AND HOWARD REWARD OFFERED PLEASE CALL 2548 OR RETURN TO 226 HOWARD THANK YOU LOST AQUA·BLUOOFF-WHITE SCARF REWARD OFFERED 
FOR RENT 
RENT CHGO APTI Sunny, lg 1 br In vintage c1yd bldg. Hdwd lira, tan, blnda, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clata, bamt storege,lndry. 11.2 blk to Lk Shore Dr bua, 2 blk to el train, Wrigley. $650. Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871-3397 (NO '80) 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288·095&255­
3684 

2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 

WANTED 
WANTED: BLOOD PLASMA DONERS. 
Help uve a lite end earn extra caah 
at the same time. New and old donora 
c·PERSONALS 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR SPRING BREAK!!I I'm going to Exit 12 on the Ohio Turnpike (or anywhere close). I can leave Friday, alter 10am. Will share driving and EXPENSES. CALL DAN AT 1155. 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
BEACH BASH '88 LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL Beachlront hotel, right on strip, close lo all bars and nightlife. Only $14~rson (4toom) lor 8 sunny days, and 7 crazy 01ghts of wild Florida fun. See Ya There. 
AAJAX 
JULIE, JULIANNE. JULES, aka KATHY? WHOEVER YOU ARE; WHEREVER YOU ARE; HAVE A GREAT BIG HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
WELL-HUNG HANGERS! WELL-HUNG HANGERS I WELL-HUNG HANGERS! 
NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES· SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIIIII (OR ANY WHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY) PLEASE CALL CAROL at 27Hl888. 
"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY GOAT IS?" 
NAN lor UMOC NAN lor UMOC NAN lor UMOC 
"It's gonna get ugly." (Well, UGLIERI) 
STEPH LYNDON. 

Just seven short years shy or 30. Please 
remember old people must watch them­
selves. Oh my God: BE RESPONSIBLE! 
No more snakebites, bourbon, and three 
days in bed. Seriously, I can't say how 
much I wish I were there to celebrate 
wilh ya'lllll Love, 
Your London roomie 

....................... 
IRISH MUSIC IRISH MUSICIII 
JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS AT 
MR. CHRISTIAN'S DILEMA ON 
PRAIRIE AVE NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA 
EVERY FRI AND SAT 8-12 
EnJoy Coke 
Enjoy Coke 
Enjoy Coke 

COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Brother· Sister Camps seeking staff, all transpor· tation paid. Call collect: (215) 663·0366. See us at LaFortune Student Center on Thurs.. Mar. 24 from 11 am -4 pm. 
. ············· 
AUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have your carpet professionally cleaned by The Aug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Off· campus negotiable. We also do lurniture. Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY 
Things We Won't Miss XVIII: This place for ten days 
that's mah tickeet!f 
BETTY! BELATED HAPPY 18TH ANNIVERSARY OF YOUR 39TH BIRTHDAY ·MIKE & JANICE AND DR. JIM 
CONGAATS J Kline & J Murillo! You bet­ter invite me to the wedding Best Wishes. CP 
u. N. o. c. ...ugly nan on campus ... u. N. o. c. 
BIZ-Welcome to Soulh BendiYour smile brightens this campus&my 
THE REGATTA IS COMINGIII THE REGATTA IS COMINGIII SEE YOUR HALL PRESIDENT FOR DETAILS 
Enough of this Irish Stull already... Happy St. Joseph's Day! 
WORM IV WORM IV WORM IV SHIRTS SHIRTS SHIRTS £ 2038 
THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES It begins on April 5. 
14923 Brentwood-From N.D. sweats to red silk, you're my favorite sight on campus. I hope you had as great a time last weekend as I did. Think of me on the hellbus. 
lsn'l it bad enough that we named this school after them? Happy St Joaeph'a DayI 
Oh, lordy, Ethel She threw a water balloon at us Isn't there a $50 fina lor thai? 
Happy St. Patrick's Day 
and 
Happy Spring Break 
to allll 
love, 
Amy, Copy Center 
ADWORKS Is looking lor people with computer and design experience (CAD atudents, llaten upl) Learn ad design and earn money tool Call 231H1757 alter 3 lor more Info. 
Are you taking a plane out of Michiana Regional on Friday? Don't spend all your Break $on a cab just to get there. Take the Student Gov't Domer Shuttle on Friday for only $2. Buses leave Main Ci1cle from 12·4 pm on the hour. 
thank you st. jude for prayers answered· cj 
0: WHAT DO JOHANA :AND AL PACINO HAVE IN COMMON?? A: THEY BOTH HAVE A 'SCARFACE' I 'SCARFACE' FOR U.M.O.C. 

0: WHAT DO JOHANA AND A LEECH HAVE IN COMMON ? A: THEY'RE BOTH PA.1ASITES, BUT ONE LEAVES A RING AND THE OTHER NEEDS A RING... 'SCAAFAE' FOR U.M.O.C. II 
thank you st. jude 

BEWARE OF FALLING EGGS! 
HEADS UP FOR CALCULATORS! 
·········································· .......... SHARPEN YOUR CROSSWORD PEN­CILS! 
GET READY TO PARTY! 
............................ 
E ENGINEERS' WEEK IS ON ITS WAYIII MARCH 21 ·25 
NEWSTVPES: Thanks for a great year Jim & ChriS 
THANKS JUDE 

······························· ........................ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BAAISSAI THE BR IS FINALLY AN ADULTl DO US A FA· VOR ·ANSWER THE PHONE. LOVE 
D.C & M 

IS IT TOO LATE FOR A RECALL ELEC· TION? RECALL DOYLE·PAESE 
Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle near Kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful inter· cessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, lo you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present urgent petition, In return, I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say lhree Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glorias. Publication musl be promised. St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. 
Amen. This Novena must be said for 9 consecutive days. 
To the most fascinating 
woman he's ever met: 
(Yes, yes, that's you) 
Listen to the words 
that you se)l-1t'S getting 
harder to sta)I'Want to 
see you ... 

Meet you upstairs at 
Angers in 3 months! 
Love, Cindy 

BCQ2: so, will we slill be friends on monday? that is, if we're friends now. yeah. i don't think so. you are such a b ... l oh, I'm a b ... because I'm being honest? no, you're a bitch because you know that's a sh.tty thing to do to some· one. and you don't have enough balls to stick up to your friends and tell them you're gonna like who you want to like. 
gil out duh way! 

nan sauer lor UMOC... Just when you lhoughl it was sale lo vote for a decent. upstanding Amencan citizen... nan sauer for 
UMOC... 
JMR I love you more than chocolate! 
GOODBYE MBA'SI GOOOBYEI ENJOY YOUR BREAK EVERYONE I JUST WANTED YOU ALL TO KNOW I'M THINKING OF YOU TODAY AS I SIT ON THE BEACH IN DAYTONA I JUST WISH THERE WERE SOME GIRLS DOWN HERE! WELL I'LL KEEP LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO STAY LIVE FROM FLORIDA TOUR '88 THIS IS THE "CRIB DOG" SAYING SEE YOU IN A WEEK 
................................... 
BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX·AATS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts 
RITES OF SPRING ·A BEAUX-ARTS BALL Coming soon to an architecture building near you. 
Kera England Ia 22 tod•Y· Hope lt'a happyll Your favorite lrooh of 209 & 213 
HAP0 Y BIRTHOA Y JOHN i:IRANIGANII Jen, Jen, 1o Ally 
Sandy So tell me. whatever heppenad to your 
•? A Concerned Citizen 
Hey DOYLE & PAESE:Don't you tllink 
you should have spoken to the thirty 
people whose jobs you eliminated before 
lhey had to read about It in your ed? Do 
you even know what those jobs were? 
Great way to start your term-alienating 
people who have spent more time in the 
student gov't office I han you have. Is It 
too late to change my vote? 
. ........................................................... . 
Seve Baby Seals----Collect Valuable 
Prizes 
NO CLUB OF DETROIT Ill 
All students going home for break come 
out and march In the St. Pat's 
pb;ade...Meet at noon on Sun. Mar.13 at 
Reedy's BAR on Michigan Ave. Get your 
Irish up this Sun. Ques. call Jim at 3499. 
This will be fun II 
ND CLUB OF DETROIT Ill 
To: The Guys 
South Hell 
46666·0245 
It's Miller Time 
Have A Good Ona 
From The Guys 
Hell 
46666·0233 
Kansas City ·Here We Come 
Kelly Kelly Kelly Kelly Have a good break, can't wait until we get back 
You know who 
····· ............... Hepp Mell Hepp Mell I naed a nde to Chicago O'Hare airport Friday morning and would rather watch another Rockne Stamp dedication lhan take the shuttle. Call M1ke Naughton at 271·0576 and make a fnend for life. 
Voter registration lor the prlmanes will be today from 4·45 to 6:45 m South Dining Hall. 


-----------~ ---~-----~~--­
u • 
r 
!...pa,;..,gL.:e_14_______________________The Observer 
Thursday, March 10, 1988 
•




SMC SWim team ends year 
Belles finish with trip to National Championships 



**********************************
* * 
* * 
* * 
! HAPPY 21ST! 

E BIRTHDAY E 
! KATHY ! * * 
* * 
* * 
* LOVE, * 
! YOUR FRIENDS ! 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 

~********************************~ 
a 21st place finish, as did thE 400 free relay team of Sara Maurer, Malina, Olivieri and Rafferty. The latter beat its previous best time by nine seconds to achieve this finish. 
The only individual con­tender was senior Meghan Raf­ferty, who recorded a solid 22nd-place finish in the 100 backstroke and swam three seconds off her personal best time. 

"At the beginning of the season we geared ourselves toward Nationals," said The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Cooper. "I was very pleased 

The Saint Mary's swim team ended its season last weekend with
because we peaked there, 

an impressive showing at the NAIA National Championships in
which looks very promising for 

Orlando, Fla. Kristine Gregory details the season-ending meet at
next season." 

left. 
Belles tennis team tops Toledo; freshmen play key roles in win 
By HEATHER ATKINSON tage. Since the Belles were in Sports Writer better condition than Toledo's players, Saint Mary's came out 
Starting its spring season off victorious in many of the three­with a bang, the Saint Mary's set matches. tennis team defeated the Uni­versity of Toledo Rockets 6-3 at 
Freshman Sarah Mayer was 
the Angela Athletic Facility one player to come back and 

last weekend. 

win in three sets, In her first collegiate spring match, 
The Belles' win over the Divi­Mayer lost in the second set sion I school, coming off a and rebounded to win the third highly successful fall season, and defeat her opponent 7-5, 2­left Saint Mary's coach Debbie 6, 6-4. Laverie understandably Mary Turk, also a freshman, pleased. won in straight sets. Both sets 
"This was a great way to were close, but Turk came start off the season," said Head through with a 6-4, 6-4 victory Coach Debbie Laverie. in the first spring season match "Toledo is a Division I program of her collegiate career. and has always beaten us in the Mayer and Turk both con­past. Last time we lost 9-0. This tributed in the Belles' two vic­
time we went in and worked real hard and just wanted it more than the other team did." 

----.L-=Y~



-----I--he--Obs.---e~~er 
Only three courts were avail­able at the Angela Facility, re­

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
sulting in a very long-day 


newspaper
where the matches were more like endurance contests. Saint 


Be a part of it.
Mary's was able to use that sit­uation as a home court advan-
Daves, Rick Ohren and all the student assistants. After traveling all around the country to different school, you realize these people are the best at what they do. 
Finally, my staff. Without all of you, this paper wouldn't get out. Thanks to you all. 
And, yes, it is sometimes better to just go fishing. 
+ 
.Anlerican 


Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

tories in the doubles category. Mayer teamed up with Char­lene Szajko, defeating their competition 6-2, 6-2. The duo of Turk and Jane Schnell won with scores of 6-3, 6-0. 
"The big difference this time was that we put the emphasis on playing aggressively. We won a lot of our points at the net," said Laverie. ".Our num­ber one players always play well, but I was really pleased with the performances of the number two and three players. They have shown great im­provement." 
The next match for the Belles will be on March 26 at home against Wheaton College. 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's women's swim team ended its season on a good note last weekend with respectable relay finishes at the NAIA National Champion­ship in Orlando, Fla. 
The 200 medley relay team of Lori Swedish, Clair Druley, Lynne Olivieri and Meghan Rafferty recorded its best time of the season, good enough for a 17th-place finish. This was one position away from being named Honorary All­Americans. The ninth to 16th place finishers receive the 
I 
,, 

t:t.onory All-American title, while the top eight finishers are named All-Americans. 
"I was very pleased with the way the girls swam," said first­year Belles coach Dennis Cooper. "Every single time was a season best by at least one second. Everyone swam very well." 
A 19th place finish was re­corded in the 400 medley relay by Swedish, Druley, Olivieri and Rafferty. The relay team knocked four seconds off of its previous best time. 
The Observer I Susy Hernanaez 
Following an exceptional fall campaign, the Saint Mary's tennis team got its spring season off in the right direction last weekend with a victory over Toledo. The Belles next face Wheaton College in a home match after Spring Break. 

continued from page 20 
Hardin-Simmons, the Irish have made strides to recover from a late season shooting slump. Junior Mark Stevenson is 10-of-13 in the last two outings (6-of-6 against Marquette), while senior Gary Voce and sophomore Keith Robinson have picked up the pace inside to pound the ball at opponents in the paint. 
"We want to have eight or nine people playing well," said Phelps, in his 17th season at the helm for Notre Dame. "I think we've got Mark Stevenson and 
they need to be. We just needed 
to come back and shoot the ball well in these last few games, and we did that against Mar­quette and Hardin-Simmons." 


LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o hfeso'lng 
Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross r!!l 


Tourney 
continued from page 20 
I've been sports editor for two years, and it's been more fun that anyone could imagine. Now the horn is sounding, and the game is over. 
I'd like to thank a lot of people, more than I can here. First thanks to all the coaches, players and administrators who ever took a few minutes out for an interview. 
I'd also like to thank the people in the Sports Informa­tion Department--Roger Val­diserri, John Heisler, 'Spook' 
J amere Jackson back where J--~~~~~-:-~-:-~:-:-~~-:-~-:--:-:"-:--:-:-.-~~.., 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Thursday, March 10, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Spring training roundup 
f 
J''

" ..... McGwire hits monster clout
-



three-run homer in the sixth in­Dodgers 6, Reds 5
Associated Press 
ning to give the Twins a 4-1 Mark McGwire hit two home lead. Dave Anderson's RBI single runs, including a towering capped a two-run eighth inning 
Red Sox 2, White Sox 1
three-run shot to center field in that carried unbeaten Los An­the ninth inning, as Oakland Jeff Sellers and Ed Lynch geles to a 6-5 victory over Cin­cinnati.
defeated the San Francisco each pitched three shutout in­Giants 7-5 Wednesday in ex­nings, and five Boston pitchers 
Strawberry starts fuss
hibition play. combined on a four-hitter as 
McGwire's first homer, a the Red Sox beat Chicago. solo shot off Mike Krukow, MIAMI-The New York Mets came in the second inning. The Braves 6, Expos 2 held a closed-door meeting three-run homer came off Wednesday and reached an un­Craig Lefferts and cleared a 30-Gerald Perry drove in two easy truce with Darryl Straw­foot fence in straightaway cen­runs with a double in Atlanta's berry, a day after he blamed ter field, 430 feet from home. three-run fifth inning, and Rick Manager Davey Johnson and 
"The public address announ­Mahler pitched three scoreless some teammates for the club's 
cer said he's never seen anyone innings as the Braves won their problems last year. hit a ball over that fence, and third in a row. "I don't think anybody likes he's been here 21 years," to have derogatory things said Giants Manager Roger Craig Astros 4, Expos 1 about them," said Johnson, 
said of McGwire's long homer. Strawberry's prime target. "He not only hit it long, he hit Rafael Ramirez hit an RBI "But I don't want to drag this it straight down the middle of triple in Houston's two-run out and make it any bigger than 
the fairway." sixth inning, leading the Astros it is." 
McGwire now has four ex­to a 4-1 victory over the Expos The storm started Tuesday hibition homers, all in the last split squad. when an advance copy of three games. Cubs 1, Angels 0 Esquire magazine's April issue appeared in the Mets' club­Twins 10, Tigers 7 Rick Sutcliffe allowed five house, containing a story about 
hits in five scoreless innings, Strawberry. 
Randy Bush started Min­combining with three other In the interview, he said 
pitchers on a seven-hit shutout. 
nesota's four-run third inning Gary Carter and Keith Hernan­with a double, and the defend­Yankees 10, Rangers 3 dez "quit" last season and he ing World Series champion had some uncomplimentary Twins defeated Detroit. Jack Jose Cruz hit his first homer comments about teammates Morris, the first of four Tiger of the spring season, leading Wally Backman and Len pitchers, gave up six runs on the New York Yankees to a 10-3 Dykstra. 
n1ne hits in the three innings he victory over Texas. Mike Of Johnson, he said, "I al­worked. Pagliarulo also homered. ways wonder how many games this team would have won if Twins 6, Royals 5 Phillies 4, Pirates 3 Whitey was managing," a ref­erence to St. Louis Cardinals 
Sal Butera's bases-loaded Darren Daulton's two-run Manager Whitey Herzog. walk off Luis Aquino snapped triple helped Philadelphia rally The Mets failed to repeat as a ninth-inning tie, and the from a 1-0 deficit to a 4-3 victory World Series champions last Twins split squad beat Kansas with four runs in the fourth in-year when they were beset by City. Tom Brunansky hit a injuries and off-field problems. 
"'f'.'U"'"" Pittsburgh. 
________Application Deadline for _________ 







······••·THEODORE'S·········· 
Student Managers 

~-······~······················ 
for the 1988-89 Applications may be school year has been picked up in Office of Student • Activities, 3rd : floor LaFortune.
EXTENDED 
The new deadline is Monday, March 2 2. 



This is your chance to qet involved don't miss it! 
-' 
~ 


page 16 


NIU swamps Irish 
Special to the Observer 
Gina Stubbs and Carol Owens combined to score 50 points, leading Northern Il­linois to a 95-74 thrashing of the Notre Dame women's basketball team Wednesday night at DeKalb, Ill. 
The Lady Huskies' leading scorer, Lisa Foss (20.0 ppg), left the game with a knee in­jury midway through the first half. NIU led 29-19 at that point. 
But Stubbs and Owens 
simply picked up the slack 
to help give the Lady 
Huskies a 47-28 halftime ad­
vantage. 
Notre Dame was hurt 
more by its injuries. Sarah 
Liebscher W(>nt out with a twisted ankle when 15: 49 was left in the second half. She is expected to miss Sat­urday's game at Dayton. 

A total of 50 fouls were called during the game, but NIU took fuller advantage of its opportunities. The Lady Huskies shot 29-of-38 from the line, while the Irish were 17-of-29. Heidi Bunek fouled out of the game with 11:45 left in the contest. 
Sandy Botham led the Irish with a season-high 27 points. Her career high is a 28-point performance last year against Northern Illi­nois. 
The Irish fell to 19-8 with 
the loss. Northern Illinois 
evened its record at 14-14. 

Irish hope Vegas brings more luck 
Women's tennis tries to end slump 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
With spring break nearly here, the Notre Dame women's tennis team is headed headed for the land of the high rollers. The Irish netters (5-8) are bound for Las Vegas, Nev., where they will compete against Cal St.-Northridge, Colorado, UNLV, Alabama, Princeton, and Utah. 
In attempting to snap their current five-game losing streak, the Irish must face four new opponents which most cer­tainly enhance the level of com­petition found on this year's schedule. UNLV, Alabama, Princeton and utah would like nothing better than to post vic­tories in their first meetings with Notre Dame. 
Cal St.-Northridge and Colorado, the two remaining teams on Notre Dame's spring break schedule, each have played the Irish once before. The Irish defeated Cal St.­Northridge in 1984, but dropped a match to Colorado earlier this season at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
All six of these teams are in­
dicative of the increasing level 
of competition the Irish have 
faced since earning NCAA 
Division I status under the 
guidance of head coach Mic­
helle Gelfman during the 
1985-1986 campaign. 


BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


Remarkably, Notre Dame reached this plateau only thir­teen years after becoming a co­educational institution. 
"We've upgraded our schedule about 500 percent since I came here, " said Gelfman. "And we will con­tinue to upgrade our schedule." 
Their new opponents are not the only obstacles the Irish will have to overcome in Las Vegas. Saturday's match against Cal St.-Northridge marks the team's first outdoor match of the season. As luck would have it, inclement weather has postponed any attempts on the part of the Irish to prepare for play under these new condi­tions. 
"We haven't had the oppor­tunity to get outside to play, '' explains Gelfman. "We'll be practicing in Las Vegas for the first time. The courts there are not in very good condition. They're fast courts. We'll be facing a big adjustment prob­lem going from indoors to out­doors." 
Finally, lest anyone fear that the trip to Vegas will be all work and no play for the Irish, Gelfman stresses the impor­tance of moderation in the team's schedule. 
"When we're on the courts, 
we're there to play, " says the 
third-year coach. "When we're 
off the courts, we're there to 
relax." 
2 Inexpensive, safe houses located close to campus 
-823 Notre Dame Ave. -8 bedrooms -702 St. Louis St. -4 bedrooms 
Call Laura after 6 p.m. at 289-6621 for more information. 
The Observer Thursday, March 10, 1988 

College basketball roundup 



Ohio State stuns Purdue 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Jerry Francis scored 14 points, in­cluding six in an 11-2 spurt that turned the game around in the second half, as Ohio State upset No.2 Purdue 71-60 in a Big Ten Conference game Wednesday night. 
The victory, which moved Ohio State to 16-11 overall and 9-8 in the Big Ten, was the Buckeyes' fourth at home over a ranked conference opponent. Purdue, which clinched the Big Ten title Saturday, fell to 26-3 and 15-2. 
Purdue led 47-42 with 12: 21 
remaining, but was limited to 
two points in the next seven 
minutes. The Boilermakers 
missed five straight free 
throws in one span as Ohio 
State took a 53-49 lead. 
The Boilermakers pulled 
within 55-54 with 4: 13 left, but 
John Anderson hit a 15-foot 
jumper and Jay Burson scored 
on a driving layup and free 
throw for a 60-54 Ohio State 
lead. 
The Buckeyes then hit nine 
of 11 free throws in the final 
1:13. 
Troy Lewis led the Boiler­
makers with 20 points. 
Ill. 85, Mich. 74 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill.-Ken Bat­

tle and Nick Anderson scored 
25 points each W~dnesday night 
as 19th-ranked Illinois upset 
lOth-ranked Michigan 85-74 in 
the Big Ten. 
The victory was Illinois' third straight over a nationally ranked team. Previously, the Illini defeated Indiana on the road and Iowa at home. 
Glynn Blackwell, playing his final home game, added 15 points for Illinois, 21-9 overall and 11-6 in the conference. Mic­higan 23-7 and 12-5, was led by junior forward Loy Vaught with 24 points. 
Temple 68, URI 63 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va.­
Tim Perry's three-point play with 3:44 left turned back a Rhode Island comeback and Mark Macon and Howard Evans stretched the lead with 3-pointers in No. 1 Temple's 68­63 victory for the Atlantic 10 tournament title Wednesday night. 
Temple, 29-1, won its 15th straight game and third confer­ence tournament crown in four years. Rhode Island fell to 26-6 and is hoping for an NCAA at­large bid. 
The Owls took a 16-point lead, 43-27, with 18:05 left in the game when Perry hit a pair of free throws. But Temple went cold over the next 11 minutes 
as Rhode Island fired back. 

Macon  and  Rhode  Island's  
Tom  Garrick  each  finished  
with 25 points.  

MCC tourney preview 
INDIANAPOLIS· 

Regular-season champion Xavier, led by player of the year Byron Larkin and coach of the year Pete Gillen, takes a 13-game winning streak and a lot of pressure into the Mid­western Collegiate Conference basketball tournament. 
Five other teams are taking aim at the No.20 Musketeers. 
"It's a little tol'~uer this year in that everybody is .shooting at us. We're amarked team," Gillen said Wednesday before practice for the three-day tour­ney, which begins Thursday ilight at Market Square Arena. 
The Cincinnati university, seeded No.1, gets a first-round bye and will play either No.4 Butler or No.5 Loyola, Ill., in Friday's semifinals. Second­seeded Evansville, the only conference team to beat Xavier in the regular season, also gets a bye and will play either No.3 St. Louis or No.6 Detroit. 
The winner of the champion­ship game Saturday night will get an automatic berth into the NCAA tournament. 
NEW JUNIOR FACULTY IN MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
Dr. Krishna Chaudhary, joined the Materials Science and Engineering Department in August 1986 after receiving his 
Ph.D.  degree  from  Stevens  
Institute  and  engaging  m  
research  at  Brookhaven  

National Laboratory. Dr. Chaudhary's interest in the science of surfaces and interfaces is readily applicable to the materials technologies of thin films used in electronic devices. By probing solids with intense beams of gamma rays, Dr. Chaudhary can tell when the position of an individual atom is slightly changed by the presence of its neighbors. This environmentally senstttve movement is used to study the bonding between atoms in different solid layers, the bonding between an atom on a solid surface with a molecule of gas and the arrangement of atoms on a free surface. Such studies are critical to the development of the "new age" electronic materials that are being fabricated one atom layer at a time. Normally brittle ceramic materials are being toughened by treatments that adjust the arrangements ofsmall volumes of atoms. Thin layers of one material on another quite frequently disturb the properties of both the substrate and the coating. How can we use this knowledge to improve engineered materials and synthesize new ones? This is the goal of the surface science 
thrust. 
Dr. Paul McGinn, received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame and returned in January, 1987 after working for I.B.M. His experience in electronic packaging, plasma processing and oxide materials fits well with his role as site coordinator for the Indiana Center for Innovative Superconductor Technology. Dr. McGinn's novel processing methods for the new high temperature superconducting ceramic materials has enabled him to attract the support of the National Science Foundation in addition to industries in Indiana. This technology is still deep in the laboratory and it will be many years before commercial opportunities develop. In the meantime Dr. McGinn's research provides an exciting opportunity for several undergraduates to participate in 

a technically relevant program at the forefront of a science f i c t i o n · I i k e materials breakthrough. Other activities include the design and set-up of a sophisticated processing system that will produce unique thin films of materials using plasma. Superconducting ceramics will be some of the first material processed, no 
doubt. 

Dr. Alan Pelton, a graduate of South Dakota School of Mines and the University of California, Berkeley joined Notre Dame in August 1986 after working at Iowa State University's, Ames Laboratory. His expertise in electron optics and studies of the influence of atomic arrangements on the properties of materials has provided him with a unique b a c k g r o u n d in ceramics, glasses, and high strength alloys. The use of an electron microscope allows him to see minute details at magnifications of 1,000,000X. Atomic level imperfections in normally perfect crystals can then be studied and their behaviors documented by this close scrutiny. Since these minute imperfections impact electrical, magnetic, optical; strength and other physical properties of materials, the ability to "see" them is essential. Recent electron microscopy studies of a hard coating applied to cutting tools to improve performance has identified a microfracture mechanism that undoubtedly does not allow them to achieve their potential. Further studies may lead to an improved family of hard coatings. 
The research described above utilizes undergraduates in Materials S c i e n c e a n d Engineering and gives them a unique opportunity to participate in relevant project research and development. Beginning in the sophomore year all students are encouraged to become associated with the research project of their choice. Summer and academic year employment can lead to laboratory credit, worthwhile industry contacts, coauthorship 
o f t e c h n i c a I papers, scholarships, and an experience edge. 
For more infonnation: 
DEPARTMENT oF MATERIALS SciENCE 
AND ENGINEERING RooM 384 FrrzrATRICK HALL 
239-5330 

--------------------------' 
r-----------~--------------------------------~-----.~-----------------------~----------------~-------------------------------­
Thursday, March 10, 1988 The Observer page 17 
NCAA hosts have quite a task 

By RICK Rl ETBROCK and MART\ STRASEN Assistant Sports Editors 
Many call the NCAA basket­ball tournament the most ex­citing sporting event of the year. 
The Notre Dame Athletic De­partment, for the second time in four years, is realizing the tournament also can be the most complicated event of the year, as it prepares to host the first and second rounds of the 1988 tournament next Thursday and Saturday 
"We even went out to Seattle for a seminar on how to run it, even though we had already been through it once," said co­tournament Manager and Notre Dame Associate Athletic Director Joe O'Brien. 
Notre Dame hosted the first and second rounds in 1985, when a David Rivers turnover 
... -.,, in the final minute led to an · AP Photo early exit by the Irish and a 
The University of Notre Dame and the Joyce ACC are gearing up North Carolina victory. But al­
to host the first two rounds of the NCAA Midwest Regional, and If though the Notre Dame basket­
sports editor Dennis Corrigan's predictions are correct, Charles ball team lost in 1985, the Uni­
Shackleford and North Carolina State are headed for the JACC. versity itself was victorious in Dennis has a complete listing of his predictions on page 20. impressing _the NCAA enough to host the event again this year. "We were ready to start plan­ning as soon as we finished in 1985," O'Brien noted. "We were that gung;ho about it. It
TWO GREAT WAYS TO ~rLND 

was a very exciting moment for us, and we showed the NCAA
AN EVENING. 
then that we could do a good job for them in the future." 
And what a job it is. O'Brien and Roger Valdiserri, also a co­tournament Manager and Notre Dame Associate Athletic 
SurH Jr-prnt nit/171 ~ 1ic ~hnloh 
Director, have been working on 
i!f1( IA1ic ~huk )h /J(1hI 
the event since Notre Dame's bid to host it was granted by
it 111 ()/. I)()///( JS. 
the NCAA in January of 1987. 
The co-managers have 
divided a number of responsi­
bilities among many members 
of the Athletic Department, 
and with good reason. 
Some of their tasks include 
arranging motel accommoda­
tions for teams, members of 
the media and officials, dis­
tributing tickets, reserving 
practice times, arranging for 
security, allowing for the dj.&­
tribution of programs and 
souvenirs, setting up press con­
ferences and a variety of other 
jobs that the television 
cameras never pick up. 
"A lot of it has to be done 
before you put in a bid," ex­
plained John Heisler, Associate 
Sports Information Director 
and Tournament Media Coord­
inator. Notre Dame entered its 
bid in August of 1986. 
"You have to submit a whole 
budget by that time, in terms 1of what it's going to cost you to put on a tournament," Heisler -::ontinued. "So you've got to have a pretty good game plan to start with. We certainly have an advantage in that we've done it before. We know what 
it takes to get it done." 
The 1985 tournament brought 
in a revenue of approximately 
$350,000 and cost Notre Dame 
$50,000 to run, O'Brien said. Of 
the remaining $300,000, Notre 
Dame was allowed to keep 20 
percent, or $60,000, O'Brien 
added. The rest was returned 
to the NCAA. 

Notre Dame will keep 20 per­
cent again this vear. The ex­
penses will be nearly the same, 
O'Brien said, and addea that 
he thinks the event will bring 
in about $365,000 this time 
around. 

One difficult aspect of host­ing the tournament is to keep the local fans happy. Notre Dame season ticket holders were sent ticket order forms earlier this year, according to Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski. They were guaranteed seats, but not guaranteed the same seats they have for Notre Dame games. After that sale (in which the lower arena was sold out), tickets were made avail­ahle to the general public. 
"It's really not our event, it's the NCAA's event and they im­pose a lot of guidelines on us," said Bobinski. "We lose a lot of the lower seats because of the extra media and because all the teams will most likely bring their bands along." 
When the team bids go out Sunday, the eight schools who will be playing at the Joyce ACC will receive pre-made booklets with information about their arrangements, O'Brien said. Then a different kind of work begins. 
"As soon as we find out who's coming here," says Bobinski. "We have to find out if they will be able to use up their allot­ment (each team is allotted 250 tickets). If not, those tickets are available to the public." 
One added responsibility for the Athletic Department this year is NCAA drug testing, which was not done in the 1985 tournament. 
Trainer Jim Russ will act as the Drug Testing Coordinator during the tournament. He will set up equipment away from the lockerroom facilities, where he will be assisted by NCAA officials in testing cer­tain athletes. 
Testing this year will be even more complicated than in last year's tournament, Heisler said. 
"Last year, everybody knew they were going to be tested after the first round games," Heisler explained. "This year, the NCAA is not going to an­nounce it in advance. We've just got to be ready." 
STUDENT ESCAPES FROM INSTITUTION! 
University authorities suspect Ft. Lauderdale, but he may have fled to any of these Midway destinations: 
MIDWAY AIRLINES' 
Atlanta Boston Chicago (Midway) Cleveland Columbus Dallas/Ft. Worth Denver Des Moines Detroit Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers Indianapolis Kansas City Las Vegas Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Nassau New Orleans New York (LaGuardia) Omaha Orlando Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh (Elf J/1188) St. Croix St.Thomas Tampa Washington, DC (Nat1onal) West Palm Beach 

MIDWAY CONNECnON" 
Benton Harbor Bloomington/Normal Champaign/Urbana Dubuque Elkhart Grand Rapids Green Bay Indianapolis Madison Muskegon Peoria South Bend Springfield, IL Traverse City Waterloo 
Sporting flip-flops and sunglasses, the student was last seen turning cartwheels 
through the airport, where he caught the Midway Connection~ to convenient 
Chicago Midway Airport. Once in Chicago, he is believed to have hopped a 
• ~Anheut;t•r Busch Int. 51 lOUIS Mn 
quick, hassle-free flight to another Midway destination. 
Campus officials attribute his departure to an early case of spring break, as numerous faculty members recall hearing Jimmy Buffet coming from his walkman. 
To plan an escape of your own, call1-800-621-5700, or call your travel agent. 


MidwayConnection· 
-~------------------------------------------~--------------------~-----------------------------------------­
r-­
1 
I 
page 18 The Observer 
•





Lax starts year 1n Colorado 
Western swing includes important date with Air Force 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
While the majority of Notre Dame students will be enjoying their Spring Break basking in the Florida sun, skiing in the Rocky Mountains, or visiting hometown friends, the Notre Dame lacrosse team will be opening their season on a four­game road swing through Colorado. 
The Irish will face the Colorado School of Mines, Colorado College, the Air Force Academy and the University of Colorado. Notre Dame has never played Air Force before. That game will take on further significance because at the end of the season the Irish and the Falcons should be in contention for the NCAA Tournament's Western bid. 
That fact is not lost on Irish coach Rich O'Leary. In his 18th year as the Irish coach, O'Leary sees the four-game trip as a crucial determinant for the success of the season. The Irish will attempt to im­prove on last year's 7-5 record. 
"I'd like us to come back from the spring trip winning at least three, and possibly four, games," said O'Leary. "I'd like to come back having beat Air Force." 
O'Leary expressed the hope 
that a win against the Falcons 
would propel the Irish on to 
late-season victories against 
Ohio State and Michigan State, 
who are also early favorites to 
capture the NCAA West bid. 
particularly aided the progress 
of this year's squad. 

The reserved bid was employed last season in order to give the traditionally weaker "Western" teams adequate representation in the tourna­ment, which is usually dominated by Eastern schools. 
O'Leary said that victories against the Buckeyes and Spar­tans could mean winning the Great Lakes Lacrosse Associ­ation and, combined with a vic­tory over Air Fore, would make Notre Dame "the representa­tive to the NCAA's." 
O'Leary's hopes are sup­ported by his assessment of the team's progress thus far. He said last Sunday's scrimmage with Michigan State and two months of practice have been encouraing. He added that the team can depend on senior tri­captains Tom Lanahan, Art Brady, and John McNicholas to provide the leadership that is needed on the rather young team. 
"Against Michigan State our 
style of play was very aggres­
sive and we passed the ball 
very well," said O'Leary. "We 
consistently came up with very 
good plays and put a lot of pres­
sure on their defense. It was a 
team effort." 
O'Leary praised the out­standing play in the scrim­mage from "people who we ex­pected to do well," particularly the tri-captains and attacks John Olmstead and Jeff Shay. He also said that junior middie Dave Kidder is playing well and that sophomore middie Mike Quigley ''is looking better and could be a starter soon." 
The most surprising play of the scrimmage may have come from three freshman middies (Pete Gillen, Mark Brady, and John Capano) who "all played very well," according to O'Leary. 
The Notre Dame defense suf­fered a setback against Mic­higan State when sophomore Jeff Salamon suffered a knee injury which required surgery. It is doubtful he will return this season. 
Junior Kevin O'Connor 
"seems to be leading the 
defense now," according to 
O'Leary, while senior Randy 
McDonald and junior Doug 
Spencer also remain defensive 
keys. 
Senior Matt McQuillan has 
returned from academic in­
eligibility to begin his third 
season as the starting goalie. 
McQuillan did not play against 
the Sparans because of a prior 
commitment, but O'Leary said 
that McQuillan's backup, soph­
omore Jeff Glazier, had ''a very 
good game in goal. He's im­
proved tremendously from last 
year." 
Practicing in the Loftus All­Sports Center has particularly aided the progress of this year's squad. 
"We met early as a team and decided we would put more time into practice, and the in­door facility has made a big dif­ference," said O'Leary. "It has allowed us to play aggresively and very hard from the begin­ning and has helped us play bet­ter as a team." 


Reds tired of being bridesmaids 
Associated Press 
PLANT CITY, Fla.-The Cincinnati Bridesmaids have had enough of trying to catch the bride's bouquet. 
For three straight years, the Bridesmaids have finished second in the National League West, beaten out in order by Los Angeles, Houston and San Francisco. 
Cincinnati hopes this is its year. 
Reds Manager Pete Rose has a ballclub that is just about set and most importantly, has a new-look and, he says, a better­look pitching staff. 
"We hope it's better," Rose said. "We think it's better. We've got some good, young arms.'' 
There is a distinct shortage of that commodity in baseball these days. So if he's right, the Bridesmaids could be in busi­
ness. 
The rotation is headed by Danny Jackson, imported from Kansas City in a winter trade, and Tom Browning, a former 20-game winner who won half that number last season and even spent some time in the minors. 
Behind them are Dennis Ras­
mussen, who won 13 games for 
the New York Yankees and Cin­
cinnati last season, and Ron 
Robinson, coming off arthro­
scopic elbow surgery. 
The fifth starter could be Guy 
Hoffman. Or he could be Jose 
Rijo, acquired from Oakland in 
the Dave Parker trade, or he 
could even be Mario Soto, once 
the ace of this staff and trying 
to come back after two years 
worth of shoulder troubles. 

The bullpen is solid with John Franco, who won eight games and saved 32 others last year, and Rob Murphy and Frank Williams, who appeared in 87 and 85 games respectively. 
Besides Rijo, the Brides­maids also acquired another pitcher, Tim Birtsas, in the Parker trade. More important­ly, they opened up a lineup spot for some young talent that has been waiting for a chance to play. 
The lineup is just about set, wilh velerans Buddy Bell and Nick Esasky anchoring the in­field at first and third and Bo Diaz catching. Young Barry Larkin is the everyday shortstop and Jeff Treadway shares second with 38-year-old Dave Concepcion in a platoon. 
Center fielder Eric Davis was the best player in baseball for the first half of last season and now Rose needs a full year from the talented young man. 



Thursday, March 10, 1988 

AP Photo 
Kareem Abdui-Jabbar and the Los Angeles Lakers ended the New York Knicks' 13-game home winning streak by knocking off the Knicks 104-99 at the Madison Square Garden on Wednesday. 
STRIKE UP 
THE BAND 
IT'S KRISTIN ELIZABETH BURTZLAFF·s 21ST BIRTHDAY 
WE LOVE YOU, 
MOM, DAD, PATRICK, 
ROB, AND KAREN 



~-~-----~--­

Thursday, March 10, 1988 
The Observer 

Campus ­
Thursday 
12:00 Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture "BrianT. vs. ~acific Bell: Is Civil Redress Possible for Victims of Pornography?" by BenJamin Bull, Esq., legal counsel, Citizens for Decency Through Law, Phoenix, 
Arizona. Room llO Law School 4:20p.m. Physics Colloquium "Neutrinos as Cold Dark Matter of the Universe" by Dr. Palash Pal, University of Massachusetts. Room 118 Nieuwland Scien~e 
Hall 39th Annual meeting of the Metaphysical Society of America, <MSOA) Thursday, March 10 through Saturday, March 12. Theme: The End of Metaphysics: The Question of Foundations. All meetings will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. Partially sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters 7:30p.m. MSOA lectures l)"The End <Demise) of Metaphysics? What Whitehead K~,ew and Rorty O~erlooked," by Donald Sherburne, Vanderbilt University; 
2) The Death of Philosophy and the Future of Metaphysics: The Case of Rorty and Whitehead," by George Lucas, Clemson University. Commentator: Joseph
Grange, Southern Maine University. 10-11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talk show on Alcohol and Drug Problems, with Dave Dannison, head of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, and Jane Heisel, former president of BACCHUS, and recovering alcoholic students, host Lynsey Strand will take questions at 239-6400, WVFI-AM 640. 
Friday 
9:00a.m. MSOA Session 1: The Great Tradition Chair: Brian Martine, University of Alabama at Huntsville. "Neither With Nor Without Foundations," by Kenneth Schmitz, University of Toronto 
10:45 a.m. MSOA Lectures l)"The View from Everywhere: Metaphysics After the Post-Nietzschean 'Deconstruction' Thereof," by Huston Smith, Syracuse Uni­versity; 2)"Hegel on Metaphysics and Foundationalism," by Thomas Rockmore, Duquesne University. 
11:00 a.m. Department of Economics Public Policy Workshop with Terry Urbine, graduate student in Economics. Room 131 Decio Hall 
11:45 a.m. MSOA open discussion 
2:00p.m. MSOA Session II: The Continental Challenge Chair: Joseph Grange. "The Middle Voice of Metaphysics," by Charles Scott, Vanderbilt University 3:45p.m. MSOA Lectures !)"Foundations that Never Were: The Law of the One 
and the Law of Countraries at the Beginning of Metaphysics," by Reiner Schur­mann, New School for Social Research; 2)"Ambiguity and the End of Philoso­phy," by Linda Fisher, McGill University 4:45p.m. MSOA open discussion . . 8:00p.m. MSOA Presidential Address Chair: Ro~ert C. Neville, B?ston Umver­sity. "Metaphysics, Critique and utopia," by Richard J. Bernstem, Haverford College 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

----------~-~­
page 19 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Highlanders 6 Under the 
sheets 10 Do gardening 13 Chi. airport 14 Lopez theme 
song 15 Beer or East 16 -tour (cake) 17 Trolley 18 Gain by work 19 Manhattan 
buildings 22 Observe 23 Arthurlan lady24 Royal title 
letters 27 Icelandic work 30 Jeweled 
headdress 34 WWII 
command 35 Festive 37 Spartan serf 38 Fifth Ave. 
sight 42 Goat antelope 43 Br. composer 44 Consumed 45 Ms Doolittle 46 Hamilton's 
bills 48 Tchrs.' gp. 49 Burden 52 Pronoun 54 Desirable 
seats 60 Douse 61 Showy flower 62 Archaeology 
find 64 Diva's song 65 Plelet 86 Muse of 
poetry 67 Obtain 68 Sword 69 Circuit 
journeys 
DOWN 1 Soak 2 Huntley or 
Atkins 3 Solemn promise 

1---+--+---+--t­
-.

© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 03/10/88All Rights Reserved 
4 Attempts 5 Divan 6 One against 7 Nee 8 Gladden 9 Friend of 
Pythlas 10 Listen 11 Paddles 12 Coastal bird 15 More Indigent 20 Piece of pie 21 Flexible twig 24 Boundary of 
bushes 25 Backless seat 26 Muslim girl In 
Paradise 28 Art school 03110/88 29 Keen 40 Grassy plain 55 Be patient 31 First Eng. 41 Nairobi's land 58 Put to work 
martyr 47 Evening party 57 Punta del ­32 Way to go 50 Join together 58 Mythomaniac 33 Cruising 51 Belt 59 Heraldic word 36 Skin woe 53 Exorbitant 60 Droop 39 Rocket Interest 63 Call for 
launcher 54 Ripped help 
The Far Side Gary Larson 







Sports
page 20 

Irish beat Goshen, end skid 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Dame (2-5) also had a little runs to take an 8-0 lead. Tim trouble at the plate in the early Hutson had the big hit of the
Sports Writer 

going. The Irish left four men inning, tripling down the right 
Three Notre Dame pitchers on base in the first three in­field line to score Mike Coss combined to hurl a one-hitter, nings. and Dan Peltier. The triple as the Irish blanked Goshen "With it being a cold day, I gave Hutson a team-leading 15 College 10-0 Thursday at Jake think the weather had someth­runs batted in for the season. Kline Field to end their five­ing to do with the hitting," said game losing streak. Murphy. "We were a little tight Moshier and Terry 
Erik Madsen started and al­at first." Andrysiak also played big _..... 
.-
lowed no hits in his five-inning Notre Dame broke the score­parts in the rally. Moshier sin­stint. Mike Coffey pitched the less tie in the fourth inning gled, then advanced to second sixth inning, allowing just a without the benefit of a hit. when the ball went through the bunt single by Mark Gerber. Darren Miller, relieving Goshen outfielder's legs. Hut­Kevin Kerns came on in the Goshen starter Tom Bennett, son and Lund scored on the 
seventh and was perfect in his walked James Sass and Ed play. Two batters later, one inning of work. Lund to lead off the inning. Andrysiak's hit went off first "Madsen had been inconsis­base into the right field corner. 
tent, and he needed to show me Mike Moshier's grounder The hit was good for a double, that he could throw strikes," retired Sass, but Dave Yaw­scoring Moshier for said first-year Irish coach Pat man's fly ball was dropped by Andrysiak's first RBI of the Murphy. "I was really happy Warrior outfielder Sam Glick. season. that Coffey and Kerns could get The error by Glick, who had A two-run Irish sixth inning, in there and keep the ball some­just entered the game at the also done without the benefit of where around the plate, espe­start of the inning, scored Lund a hit, closed out the scoring. cially Coffey." and Moshier. Notre Dame took advantage of 
While the Irish pitchers toyed The Irish broke the game three errors by Gerber at with Goshen's hitters, Notre open in the fifth, scoring six shortstop to score two runs. 

ND meets Dayton in finale 
Basketball team aims for 20-win season, NCAA berth 
By BRIAN O'GARA trouble getting ott the grouno Next year, however, the Flyers Assistant Sports Editor this season, entering the con­will join the Midwestern Col­test with a 13-17 record. Head legiate Confernce. To a lot of Spring Break­Caoch Don Donoher's team is "The last time we played,"bound students, Dayton is a coming off a nip-and-tuck bat­said Phelps of his team's 59-47 
connecting point for flights to tle with Miami (Fla.) which win over Dayton on Februarysouthern hotspots. Dayton pulled out, 90-89. The 18 at home, "Pittman wasn't To the Notre Dame basket­Flyers had five players in healthy, and Dayton really con­
ball team, it's a chance to stay double digits for the game, led trolled the tempo. I thought we hot and secure a connection to by 6-9 junior Steve Pittman, did a good job of handling that, the NCAA Tournament in its who poured in 30 points. but we've got to be prepared season finale. Anthony Corbitt, a 6-7 sopho­for anything. We've taken 
The Irish head to Dayton this more swingman, paces some awfully good teams down Saturday (2: 15 EST, Dayton Dayton's attack with 16.1 there and lost." Arena) seeking their fifth­points and 6.9 rebounds per out­The Flyers' last win over 
straight 20-win season and ing. Negele Knight, a 6-2 soph­Notre Dame was a 67-65 upset
fourth-straight NCAA bid. 

omore guard, averages 14.6 at Dayton in the 1985-86 season. "We've got a chance to win points a game while Pittman Since then, the Irish have won 20 games and that's one of our chips in 12.5 points and 6.7 four straight over the Flyers.
goals each year," said Notre rebounds. After snapping a three-gameDame head coach Digger Despite the Flyers' lack­losing streak against Fordham 
Phelps, "so I think our players luster record, this series exactly one month ago, Notre Jt j':,.., understand what's out there. (which Notre Dame leads 18-9) Dame has won eight of its last 
This is a chance for us to grab has consistently featured tight nine games. In the last two
-~ '""" 
a road win, and finish 20-8 with contests. Like DePaul and wins, over Marquette and eight wins in our last nine Marquette, Dayton joins Notre games." Dame as one of the four 'Great see IRISH, page 14 
The Flyers have had a little Independents' of the Midwest. 


Here are the Tournament pairings (we think) 
With NCAA Tournament bids just four days away, •No. 1 Oklahoma vs. No. 16 Cornell 
West Regional (finals at Seattle) 
my own selection committee met yesterday to •No. 8 Villanova vs. No. 9 Texas-El Paso 
at Los Angeles

decide, or guess, who was invited to the dance and •No. 5 Bradley vs. No. 12 Lousiana Tech •No. 1 Arizona vs. No. 16 Lehigh
where they were dancing. •No. 4 Iowa vs. No. 13 S.W. Missouri St. 
•No. 8 LSU vs. No. 9 Maryland One thing we learned is that it's harder than it •No. 5 Loyola, Calif. vs. No. 12 Baylor
looks. Getting the 64 teams is fairly easy. We had at South Bend, Ind •No. 4 UNLV vs. No. 13 Ohio St. 
a list of seven bubble teams, five of which made it. •No. 6 Florida vs. No. 11 St. John's Then the fun begins --who goes where and with •No. 3 N.C. State vs. No. 14. E. Michigan 
at Salt Lake City

what seed. •No. 7 Kansas St. vs. No. 10 Notre Dame •No. 6 Vanderbilt vs. No. 11 Seton Hall 
It's difficult because you have to ensure two •No. 2 Michigan vs. No. 15 N. Texas St. 
•No. 3 Duke vs. No. 14 utah 
teams from the same conference can't meet until •No. 7 Missouri vs. No. 10 SMU 
a regional flnal. Four hours after we started, we 
Dennis •No. 2 Pittsburgh vs. No. 15 Boise St. thought we finally had it--until we were forecasting how the tourney would go and had Illinois playing Corrigan Southeast Region (finals at Birmingham, Ala.)Purdue in a regional semifinal. 
at Cincinnati 

A lot of the seeds had to be juggled in order to 
Sports Editor •No. 1 Purdue vs. No. 16 Southern keep schools away from each other as well as keep •No. 8 Auuburn vs. No. 9 Louisville teams home in the first and second round. Yes, •No. 5 Xavier (Ohio) vs. No. 12 Murray St. 
East Regional (finals at East Rutherford, N.J.)
keep them home. Face it, the committe has never •No. 4 Georgetown vs. No. 13 Arkansas-Little
at Hartford, Conn.

kicked a team off its home court, and they probably Rock
•No. 1 Temple vs. No. 16 Fairliegh Dickinson 
aren't going to do it again. at Atlanta 
•No. 8 Wyoming vs. No. 9 Wichita St. 

A large part of our decisions on seedings was •No. 6 Georgia Tech vs. No. 11 Rhode Island 
•No. 5 Kansas vs. No. 12 Cal-Santa Barbara
based on the NCAA strength of schedule rating •No. 3 BYU vs. No. 14 N.C. Charlotte 
•No. 4 Illinois vs. No. 13 Richmond

(Notre Dame's is 36 out of 290) and Sagarin power •No. 7 Arkansas vs. No. 10 Iowa St. ratings, which have been remarkably accurate the •No. 2 Kentucky vs. No. 15 Tenn.-Chattanooga 
at Chapel Hill, N.C.
last few years. 
•No. 6 DePaul vs. No. 11 LaSalle

So here it is, our choices for the NCAA Tourna­Final Four? Duke, Kentucky, Michigan and North 
•No. 3 Syracuse vs. No. 14 BostM U. 

ment: Carolina. Who wins it all? The Dukies. 
•No. 7 Indiana YS. Ne. ltl Oregon St.

Midwest Regional (tia.als at Poatiac, Mkh.) 
•No. 2 North Carolina vs. No. 15 N.C. A&T see TOURNEY, page 14
at Lincoln, Neb. 
The Observer I File Photo 
With first baseman Tim Hutson hitting a two-run triple, the Notre Dame baseball team trounced Goshen College 10-0 Wednesday afternoon at Jake Kline Field. The shutout ended Notre Dame's five-game losing streak. 
The Observer I Trey Raymond Mark Stevenson (24) and the Notre Dame basketball team look to soar past the Dayton Flyers and into the NCAA Tournament this weekend. Brian O'Gara previews the last regular season game 





