r-------------~------------~ 
IACCENT: Fehlner honored IVIEWPOINT: Shattering misconceptions 


THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
•
More strikes threaten as negotiations fail 1n Poland 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland ­
Negotiations early Thursday failed to bring a settlement to a strike by thousands of workers at one of Poland's big­gest steel mills, and strikers said management was threat­ening police intervention. 
Strikers at the sprawling Lenin steel mill outside Krakow in southern Poland issued a statement declaring: "The economic policy of aut­horities of the Polish People's Republic has led millions of workers and their families to the limits of poverty. . . . Our faith in party reforms is ex­hausted." 
· Solidarity chairman Lech Walesa earlier urged nation­wide "pressure on the aut­horities" to bring about reforms. 
The strike was the biggest in­dustrial action in Poland since the 1981 crackdown on the now­outlawed Solidarity trade union movement, and it posed the sharpest challenge yet to government economic reform policies. 
Another strike was threatened Friday at the 18,000­worker Stalowa Wola heavy machinery plant in southeast Poland, and the government prepared to enter talks Thursday with transit workers' representatives seeking higher pay. 
A midnight negotiating ses­sion with management officials at the Lenin steel mill ended after just 15 minutes, accor­ding to a strike committee member who was reached by telephone and spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
''The director said they were running out of possibilities of solving it politically, and later the ZOMO (riot police) would take over," said the strike com­mittee member. 
On Wednesday, the second day of the stoppage, workers rejected a big pay raise offer. 
"We want our wages to as­sure us and our families a dig­nified life and a proper rest 
see STRIKE, page 6 

Pentagon assessment: 
Soviets are winners in 
conventional arms war 
Associated Press Some sections of the report have already been sent to 
WASHINGTON-The Soviet Capitol Hill, including the part Union and its allies "have a which restates earlier com­substantially greater capabil­ments by Pentagon officials. ity" to win a war in Europe Those officials, as part of the than NATO, according to a Senate hearings on the INF Pentagon assessment which pact, have warned that the one senator said Wednesday North Atlantic Treaty Organi­"raises a new warning flag." zation needs to spend more 
"There is an imbalance in money on non-nuclear weap­conventional weapons in ons. Europe, and there's absolutely The assessment in "Soviet no doubt about it," said Sen. Military Power,'' released by Dan Quayle, R-Ind. "This is Quayle, said the Warsaw Pact something that we're going to has improved in a number of have to consider as we debate areas and now has growing the Intermediate-range Nu­leads over NATO in a variety clear Forces (INF) treaty next of weapons, including numbers month." of tanks and artillery. 
Quayle based his comments "The conclusion of the INF on portions of the annual Pent­treaty has heightened public agon publication, "Soviet Mili­awareness in the west of con­tary Power," which will be for­tinuing imbalances and per­mally made public Friday by the Defense Department. see ARMS, page 6 


El Salvadoran death sparks concern at N D 
to protest the murder of an in­
By LYNSEY R. STRAND Have a ball Staff Reporter nocent person. "We must tell you that a hor­
The Royal Lichtenstein Quarter Ring Sidewalk Circus nesday afternoon. Acrobatics and animal tricks high­rible thing happened recently
provided entertainment on the Fieldhouse Mall Wed-lighted the one-day event. Editor's note: This is the second in Santa Cruz. An older man by story in a three-part series of a the name of Pilar, who was 60 Notre Dame group's recent trip to years old, was killed in his El Salvador and how the Notre house July 11," said the letter. 
New associate dean of faculty Dame community has already "He was machine-gunned as helped the village o' Santa Cruz. he lay in his hammock sleeping at night. Soldiers of the Sixth

named at Saint Mary's for fall 
Michael Garvey, Notre Infantry Brigade in Usulutan Dame's assistant director of killed him, and they did it only "The initial emphasis of the "I'd like to encourage faculty 
By Deirdre Finn 
public relations, first met the because he refused to sell themposition is to develop coherent, and student discussions in con­Staff Reporter people of Santa Cruz on his two­bread," it said. 
effective programs to open up nection with the curriculum. I week trip to El Salvador during Back in Santa Cruz this Holy Saint Mary's College has opportunities for faculty to think this is important for the Easter last year. Returning to Week, Garvey was walkingnamed Patrick White, head of create new teaching pro­stimulation of intellectual the village this year to with a villager who pointed out the English department at grams," said Feigl. White life," said White. 
celebrate Holy Week, Garvey Pilar's home. "Yea, a bunch of Pfeiffer College in Misen­expressed excitement about White plans for external fun­learned how letters from the people from Notre Dame wroteheimer, North Carolina, to be the new position. ding to aid in the payment of Notre Dame community about his murder," said Gar­the associate dean of faculty "I sense a great deal of en­some of these activities. 
helped to make Santa Cruz safe vey to the villager. 
beginning in the fall, said ergy and interest among the "I have a lot of ideas. I hope from the country's military. His companion grinned andDorothy Feigl, vice president students and faculty of Saint to get a lot of feedback from Last autumn, Garvey read a said, "You are the folks whoand dean of faculty at Saint Mary's," said White. "It's an faculty and students," said letter from the villagers to wrote that letter. Well, not long 
Mary's. honor to be asked to help make White. 
many Notre Dame groups. It after that letter appeared, theWhite's primary responsi­a great institution even bet­The position of associate asked people to write the El patrol that machine-gunned
bilities will be faculty develop­ter." dean of faculty was created Salvadoran military and the Pilar was transferred out of the ment and curriculum develop­White has a lot of new ideas see DEAN, page 4 U.S. Embassy in San Salvador 
ment, said Feigl. for the upcoming year. see GARVEY, page 5 
---~---------------------~--. 
Thursday, April 28, 1988
The Observer
page2 

In Brief 
Father David Burrell has been named to the Theodore M. Hesburgh Chair in Philosophy. Burrell is the first holder of the Hesburgh chair, which was established by a gift from an anonymous donor. Burrell has taught philosophy and theology here since 1964. -The Observer 
Kristen Johansen, a senior at Saint Mary's, is one of three winners in a competition for papers submitted by 
musicology  students,  sponsored  by  the  Indiana  
Musicologists. -The Observer  
Grades and class preferences  are not always  

tied together, according to a survey done by statistics student Tom Proost and his staff. Arts and Letters and Business students tend to enjoy the classes they get good grades in, while Engineering and Science students have no correlation between grades and the classes they prefer. 
-The Observer 

Of Interest 
This is the last day for Senior Month ticket sales. Seniors must buy tickets from 3-5 p.m. in the Senior Class Office at LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
"The Current Reality in El.Salvador" will be the topic of a discussion sponsored by the Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies. A group of Notre Dame faculty and students will report on their Holy Week visit. It will take place today at 4 p.m. in Room 121 of the Law School. 
-The Observer 
An Irish Guard help session will be conducted today at 4:15p.m. on Green Field. All those interested in trying out for next fall should attend. If anyone interested missed the first meeting, be sure to attend this one. Those with questions should call Tom Lauer at 283-1850 or call the Band Office. -The Observer 
Campus Entertainment will be holding a 1988-89 committee meeting today at 9 p.m. in the SUB Office. Chairpersons for next year's events will be selected. Anyone interested in being on the committee is welcome. 
-The Observer 
"Gays and Lesbians at NDSMC" will be featured on Campus Perspectives from 10-11 p.m. on WVFI-AM 640 with members of the network. Listeners may call in at 239-6400. The show will be hosted by Chris Shank and Lyn­sey Strand. -The Observer Seniors who have received Senior Scholarship Fund applications should only return them if they intend to donate their room deposit money. Please check the "YES" box. -The Observer 
Any students who would be interested in being a Big Brother or Big Sister for a transfer student next year are asked to contact their hall presidents. Students who will be living in Knott or Siegfried Halls are asked to leave a note in the transfer orientation mailbox in the Student Government office of the second floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center. Questions may be directed to Jim at 234-1982. 
-The Observer 
Seniors still looking for a job can drop off one more copy of their profile forms with Career and Placement. They will keep it on file and send copies to possible employers. -The Observer 
All Juniors who are interested in participating in on­campus interviews at Career and Placement Services during the 1988-89 academic year should return their com­pleted profile form to the office prior to leaving campus this semester. -The Observer 
"Devot"Ion to Mot"Ion" is the title of a faculty dance concert sponsored by the Saint Mary's Department of Communication and Theatre. The event will be held Sat­urday and Sunday at 8 p.m. in Little Theatre-Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 

Design Editor.. . ............. Lisa Tugman Sports Assistant .... The Lovely Elizabeth Design Assistant ........ _...... _. Kim Evans Viewpoint Copy Editor Johnny Marvstick Typesetters___ .. Mike Buc Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger ............................................... Abu Nidal Accent Layout ................. Rachel O'Hara News Editor ············--·· Cathy Stacy" ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee Copy Editor ................. Cindy Broderick SMC Day Editor ............... Joanne Grillo Sports Copy Editor .......... Randy Savage Photographer ....... __ ..... John Studebacher 
ne a..ner (USPS S99 2--4000) is published Monday throuab Friday except durin& eum IIJid vacation periods. ne OMener is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame IIJid Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2$ per semester) by writiq ne OMener, P.O. Boll Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
ne a..ner is • member or ne ~.... ....__ All reproduction riabts are reserved. 

Summer jobs: Look early (or really like hamburgers) 
The sun is (well, should be) shining, classes are almost over, and exams are upon us. All the classic signs of summer have arrived. To Matt Gallagher ~ most students, summer means seeing old friends, parties at home, beaches, and work. 
Copy Editor
Yes, the dreaded summer job. A precious few of us do not need one; their parents are either loaded or crazy. For them, summer means a choice between getting up at 2 or 3 in the after­noon and then --ever so critical --which soap to watch. 

Others, the few, the proud, the Marines (and Navy, Army, and Air Force) have no choice: it's off on a summer cruise or to boot camp. 
The scholars among us go to summer school, in a vain attempt to quench their thirst for knowledge, or possibly to find that easy theol­ogy course which has been eluding them. Still, who in their right mind goes to school in July? 
For the vast majority of us, however, summer means a full-time job. These jobs run the gamut from an internship in Congress to working at the local park district to being a bank teller. Nothing can be ruled out in that essential search 
-,.__ 
--~-.:::
for spending money and resume padding. 
--......
These jobs do not come easy. True, you can always "join the team" at McDonald's or an­other of your favorite fast food chains, but such G.~ jobs are usually a last resort. Slaving over a hot grill and cleaning up old catsup just does actually mail out resumes. Most, however, are not sound fun to me. too busy planning spring break to worry about 
The key to a successful summer job is two­the summer yet. Three months to go. No prob­fold: first, the job must pay well, and second, lem. the job must not require an undue amount of March. Spring break. This is the key month, work (this last point, of course, being critical). the difference between working as an assistant 
Finding such a job is not easy. To find one, to a lawyer and working as an assistant to a you must be willing to compromise your stand­janitor. Those who can't afford Florida or South ards, lie, cheat, steal, and call on every favor Padre are lucky, because they will have a full anyone owes you (or your parents). If none of week in Chicago, Columbus, Des Moines, or these work; you're up the proverbial creek and wherever they may live to apply and interview. probably on the way to Wendy's. The rest will have fun for a week, spending all 
A typical job search is a complex, well­the money they won't earn the next summer. organized process. A typical example: Only two more months. 
January. Christmas break is almost over. April. Things are getting tight. The choicest Your parents begin to nag. You hear "start jobs are already gone, but the situation is not looking for a job" in your sleep. Of course, you yet hopeless. Long-distance charges rise do nothing, other than placating your parents dramatically as the phone becomes the key to with a few half-hearted phone calls. After all, your future. A trip home for Easter seems more 
it's only January! Why should you worry yet? like one long interview. It's time to ask dad to The summer is four months away. check with his friends for job openings in their 
February. Now you begin to think about that companies. After all, nepotism isn't all that job yourself, without the parental prompting of bad, is it? One crucial month left. January. Those who are diligent enough to want May. "Did you want cheese on that Quarter­to get an internship in Washington or New York Pounder? An apple pie for desert, perhaps?" 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
THE LAST OF­THE REAL THING ... FOR LESS. 

IBM PC's from  IBM XT's from  IBM AT's from  
$499  $999  $1799  
a:S6K wtth single 36CJk drlve)  (2.56Kwt!h!On-.gh.onld-)  QS6K with 1.2 nvg drive)  

Omni Micro has the last of the real thing ...at clone prices. All units are new and come with IBM's warranty. And, for a limited time, we are offering 35% off any in-stock item with the purchase of one or more of these unit:S: Hurry, this is your last chance to buy the IBM computers that changed the way America works. 
• VISA, MasterCard, cash accepted •90 days same as cash 
•Prices listed above do not include monitor 
•Offer good while supplies last 

[ff)[fj}[t] 

University Cornrnons•6331 State Road 23•(219)277-4972 
IBM Ia it regis.tt~ tntderNrk of lntemiillonal BusinHS Machines Corpon~tlon 

Thursday, April 28, 1988 
The Observer 
...·-'f­
The Observer I John Studebaker 


more and more common as dorms begin special quiet hours for the intense studying of ND students. 
''Dadwas right.

You get wliat 
youpayfor..,., 
page 3 

Dukakis,Bush look forward to debate 
Associated Press 
PENNSYLVANIA -George Bush, the apparent Republican presidential nominee, and his likely Democratic opponent Michael Dukakis set a comba­tive tone for the campaign Wednesday, with Dukakis saying Bush has "some ex­plaining to do" on the Iran­Contra affair. 
"Let him fire away," Bush challenged. 
Both said they looked for­ward to debates. 
The other Democrat still in the race, Jesse Jackson, looked gamely ahead to the next round of primaries in Ohio and In­diana. Despite Dukakis' huge victory in Pennsylvania on Tuesday and growing delegate lead, Jackson said the race wasn't over. 
"I keep struggling against the odds, and I've always struggled against the odds and succeeded," Jackson said on ABC-TV. "This campaign will remain alive. It will go right down to the wire in California and New Jersey on June 7." 
Bush locked up the Republi­can nomination, passing there­quired 1,139-delegate mark with an easy win in Pennsylva­nia against a field that had long since withered. 
He lunched privately with President Reagan, who indi­cated the time was nearing for a formal endorsement of his vice president. 
Both Bush and Dukakis said they would continue their primary-campaign efforts. But 
they were already providing a preview of the fall general elec­tion campaign with a long­distance debate on foreign policy and other issues through network TV interviews. 
Dukakis, the Massachusetts governor, opened fire on Bush's role in the Iran-Contra affair. Bush has suggested he would be a better choice as president because he has foreign policy experience that Dukakis lacks. 
The governor said, "All we know is that he sat there and did nothing while we engaged in one of the worst and one of the most misguided adventures in the history of American foreign policy," a reference to the arms-for-hostages dealing directed by White House offi­cials. 
"I can't imagine what they were thinking of when they proceeded to do business with a terrorist nation," Dukakis added. "There's somebody in the administration, including the vice president, who's got some explaining to do." 
Bush said he would ask Dukakis in debate what he would do about hostages in the Middle East. ."Do you really care when a man like Buckley is being tortured to death?" he said he would ask, a reference to William Buckley, the CIA of­ficial who died after being taken hostage in Lebanon. 
Jackson, campaigning in Ohio, took on both men on an issue he has tried to bring to the forefront of the campaign. "I challenge Mike Dukakis and 
George Bush to define South Africa as a terrorist state that conducts and sponsors ter­rorism," he said. 
Talk in both parties was of vice presidential nominees. 
Jackson appeared to indicate that conservative Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia, supported for the ticket by many Democratic leaders, might not be accep­table. He mentioned no names and framed his comments in terms of a running mate for himself, making what seemed to be a reference to Nunn's op­
position  to  some  civil  rights  
legislation  and  to  the  Equal  
Rights Amendement.  

HOW MANY COPIES WOULD YOU LIKE? 
Whether you need I or 100.000 copies. you get them fast at Kinko's. 


Hitting the books 
Freshman Ted Schloesser puts his pen to the paper to begin the long road to finals. This scene becomes 

More people choose AT&Tover any other long distance service. Because, with AT&T, it costs less than you think ro get the service you expect, like clearer connections, 24-hour AT&T operator assistance, instant credit on wrong numbers. And the assurance that we can put virtually every one of your calls through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. 
So when it's time ro make a choice, remember, it pays to choose AT&T. 
If you'd like to know more about our products or services, like the AT&T Card, callus at 1800 222-0300. 



AT&T 

The right choice. 

page4 The Observer Thursday, April 28, 1988 


Man charged after wife's body found buried in concrete 
The Observer 1 John StuaebaKer 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio -A single count of murder was filed Wed­nesday against a newspaper employee whose wife's body was found buried in concrete in the newspaper building, five months after he reported her missing to police. 
Dennis Langer, first assis­tant Montgomery County pros­ecutor, said Theodore Sinks was charged after the-death of Judy Sinks was ruled a homicide. Coroner James Davis said Mrs. Sinks died last Nov. 19 from hanging. 

City workers found Mrs. Sinks' decomposed body Tues­day night after using pick axes and sledge hammers to break up a concrete pedestal measur­ing about 2 feet high by 3 to 4 feet wide. It had been poured on the seventh floor of the Dayton Newspapers Inc. build­ing last November to support a water purifying unit for an air conditioner. 
Davis said Mrs. Sinks, 44, also a newspaper employee, died from "ligature strangula­tion. She was hanged." He said a rope had been wrapped around her neck several times, and that she suffered from "multiple blunt force trauma to the head," indicating she had been beaten. He identified the body through dental records. 
Douglas Franklin, Dayton Newspapers business manager, said police told him Monday they believed a body might be hidden on the seventh floor of the building. They said an unnamed informant re­ported another newspaper em­ployee, Kenneth Rice, who worked under Sinks, had helped Sinks take a 55-gallon drum to the seventh-floor 

Barnum and Bailey's next competition 
A member of the Royal Lichtenstein Quarter Ring and the Center of Social Concerns, the circus per­Sidewalk Circus entertains students on the formed yesterday. Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by student government 

Dean 
continued from page 1 
eight years ago, but was filled 
only briefly, said Feigl. 
"The college is looking for 
new ideas and more 
creativity," said Feigl. "We 
felt this is the ideal time to 
reinstate the position. 
"This also gives Mr. White a 
lot of freedom in establishing 
his role as dean." 
A committee of four, includ­
ing two faculty members, a fac­
ulty administrator, and Feigl, 
headed the search for the new 
faculty member. From a large 
pool of applicants, who 
responded to an advertisement 
in the Chronicle of Higher Edu­
cation, the committee nar­
rowed the choice to two candi­
dates. These candidates were 
invited to the college where 
they met with administrators, 
faculty and students. Recom­
mendations from these 
meetings resulted in the hiring 
of White. 
"Mr. White's background makes him compatable with a small liberal arts college,'' said Fiegl. "Because of his wide range of academic expe­rience, he will be able to com­municate well with faculty of various departments." 
White is a graduate of the University of Chicago with a degree in English. He has an 
M.A. and a Ph.D. in English from the University of Iowa. 
FORD TOYOTA -VOLVO 
PH: 259-1981 

~ JEFFERSON&CEDAR-MISHAWAKA ~ 


utility room Nov. 20, Franklin 
said. 

"It had dirt and chunks of concrete inside," said Franklin. 
"They began to believe they didn't have anything. But five minutes later, we started to get a smell," Franklin said. Searchers uncovered the band of awristwatch, then a human 
wrist and bits of clothing, he added. 
''At that point, everything stopped and they sealed the scene," he said. 
Rice said Sinks asked him Nov. 20 to help dispose of what 



PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 
Parsons in Paris: 6-week program June 30-August 13, 1988 Painting, drawing, art history and the liberal arts. Pans and the Dordogne countryside or Siena, Italy. 
Fashion in Paris June 30.July 30, 1988 Fash1on illustration, a history of European costume and contemporary trends in French fash1on. Slide presentations, museums, studiO and retail 
outlets, guest lectures. 
Photography In Paris June 30.July 30, 1988 The aesthetics and craft of photography. Lectures, gallery v1s1ts and shooting assignments. 
Architecture and Design in Paris June 30.July 30, 1988 European decorative arts and the h1story of French architecture Parsons faculty and staff members of the Musee des Arts Decoratifs. Alternate curnculum available on architecture and modern1sm 
Parsons in Great Britain July 7-August 8, 1988 A program co-sponsored by the Cooper-Hew1tt Museum. Architecture and decorative arts 1n London. Four excursions to nearby country homes and towns. 
Parsons in Italy June 30.July 29, 1988 Principles of architecture and the history of Italian architecture. Rome. Florence, Venice and Milan 
Parsons in Israel July 13-August 15, 1988 An in-depth introduction to the h1story and archaeology of Jerusalem. and to techn1ques of artistic representatiOn and photographic reportage 
Parsons in West Africa July 5.July 30, 1988 CeramiCS, f1bers. metalsm1th1ng. photography, archaeology or trad1t1onal African art and architecture. The Ivory Coast and/or Mali (8/3-8/24/88). 
Bank Street/Parsons June 27.July 29, 1988 A joint three-summer master's degree program w1th the prest1gious Bank Street College of Educat1on. The curnculum exam1nes educat1onal supervi­SIOn and adm1mstrat1on with a v1sual arts focus. 
College Session In New York June 27.July 28, 1988 Full-t1me study 1n a spec1fied art and des1gn area Draw1ng, pa1nt1ng, ceramic and textile design, communicat1on design, photography, architec­tural design, illustrat1on. fash1on illustration or fash1on des1gn 
Pre-College Session in New York June 27.July 28, 1988 A full-time opportunity. For h1gh school students cons1denng college maJors 1n draw1ng, pa1nt1ng. ceram1c and textile design, communicat1on des1gn. photography, 1ntroduct1on to architecture. 1llustrat1on. fash1on 1llustrat1on. fash1on merchand1s1ng or fashion des1gn. Introduction to art and des1gn also available. 
Pre-College in Israel July 13-August 15, 1988 A new program offered JOintly w1th the Bezalel Academy of Arts & Design. Promising high school students v1sit maJOr historical s1tes. Emphas1s on ar­chaeology and draw1ng or photography. 
Pre-College in France July 14-August11, 1988 High school students of artistic promise v1sit Pari§ and the Dordogne region. College-level draw1ng and pa1nt1ng, w1th lectures 1n art h1story and prehistoric archaeology. 
All foreign programs include a1r transportation. land transfers and accom­modations. Dorm1tory arrangements for New York programs are ava1lable. Selected programs are offered with undergraduate credit, graduate cred1t and no-cred1t opt1ons. For additional information, please return the coupon below or call (212) 741-8975. 
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011 
Please send me information on the following special summer programs: 
0 Parsons/Paris 0 Parsons/West Africa 
0 Fashion/Paris 0 Bank Street/Parsons 
0 Photography/Paris 0 College/New York 
0 Architecture/Paris 0 Pre-College/New York 
0 Parsons/Great Britain 0 Pre-College/Israel 
0 Parsons/Italy 0 Pre-College/France 
0 Parsons/Israel 
Name _________________________________________ 
Address -----------------------------------­City_____________State_______~ip.____ Phone ________________________________________ 
Sinks said was a barrel of as­
bestos. 
Rice agreed and said they drove in a company truck to pick up the blue plastic barrel from Sinks' garage. 
"He told me he had asbestos in the barrel. ... It was heavy, I don't know, 70 or 80 pounds, and it took two men to handle it," Rice said. He told of un­loading the barrel in the build­ing basement and moving it by elevator and dolly to the air­conditioning room. 
"We're going to request the highest possible bond," Langer said. 

$9.99 Pan PizzaDinner Special 
Includes a large Deep-Dish Sicilian or 14" Pan Brio!!! pizza (with up to 3 toppings) and 2 orders ofhread'iticks. 
Drink.' not indu<.lc:<.l. Not valid with any otht·r 
cc,upc m c ,r di!ooet mnt. 


Dinnerfor 2Just $5.99 
Includes your choice ofa medium Deep­
Dish Sicilian piu..a or a 12" Hand-lhssed Round or I 0" Pan Brio· with I topping and I order ofhreadsticks. 
Drinks not incluc..h:d 
Nul valid with any other t.·c,upcm clr di~cc,unt. 



Music, sweet music 
Freshman Ryan Mihalko discovers the technique of making long papers seem just a little bit shorter with 
pages 


Orbital debris, junk littering space 
Associated Press 
modules occupied by 

WASHINGTON-Satellites astronauts. 
and spent rockets are explod­"The debris gets most severe 
ing unaccountably in orbit, lit­at 500-600 miles," Kessler said, 
tering space with dangerous "but usually unmanned. 
chunks of shrapnel and forcing spacecraft are at that altitude 
designers to add tons of shield­and don't require the same 
ing to protect the proposed U.S. level of safety as a crew." The 
space station and its crew. space shuttle generally 
More than 90 satellites to operates at altitudes of 150 to date "have blown up or broken 300 miles. up for unknown reasons," and "When I first started the shards represent more than working in this area, very few half of the 7,090 pieces of space people knew how their debris being tracked by the spacecraft were breaking up, 
U.S. space Command, said Don including the designers," Kes­Kessler, project scientist for sler said. "The Space Com­debris studies at NASA's mand knew they were breaking Johnson Space Center. up, but never took the time to 
"These explosions have oc­identify why.'' curred everywhere, from one The explosions of satellites or day (after launch) to three rockets often aren't detected years," Kessler said in a tele­for a year or more after they phone interview. He said he occur, Kessler said. He said of­doubts the cause is collisions ficials have long believed that with meteoroids or the testing French-made Ariane rockets of secret anti-satellite weap­explode in space but they are ons. in orbits difficult to track with 
Space station planners "are ground radar. faced with a considerable But, he said, "in 1986 they design problem," he said and launched into an orbit that's are adding 2,000 pounds to the easily detected and it blew up shielding of each of the six after nine months." 

Domestic and imported wines beers liquors (219) 272-7144 
1725 North Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
GMAT 
LSAT 
MCAT 
GRE& 
NCLEX 

RANSFER TO YOUR HOME TOWN! ET HOMESTUDY PACKETS NOW! FFER GOOD ONLY IN SOUTH BEND. I 
~· 

* Expires 6/15/88 
c 



KAPLAN! 
STANlfY H KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-41]5 South Oend, IN 46637 
Garvey 
continued from page 1 

area. The lieutenant who was in charge of the operation was transferred to an area in the north of the country where the fighting is ferocious and has a very high casualty rate for of­ficers." 
Garvey noted that the vil­lagers felt safe from the mili­tary during his Notre Dame group's visit. 
"Pilar's murder, I think, is kind of an icon of what goes on all the time. We did not realize we were a sign of hope, not only because we brought a Catholic priest to baptize their children, but because we brought a level of international attention "~-ich the people of Santa Cruz craved," he said. 
This year, the Notre Dame group visited Santa Cruz in­tending to form a sister com­munity relationship between the village and university. But that is not what the villagers wanted. "The people of Santa Cruz were very specific in tel­ling us that they did not want money or things to directly come to them," said group member and senior Dan Stroub. 
"They knew about a village who had a similar sister rela­tionship, who became soft, for­
. got the struggle they were in­volved in. They did not want this to happen in Santa Cruz, but to give our support to the group CRIPDES, the non­governmental human rights commission. They want us to use Santa Cruz as a window for looking at all of El Salvador. So, we will have more of a com­municational, rather than a fin­ancial relationship with Santa Cruz," he said. 
Carol Stuart, a group mem­ber and government graduate student, said she was over­whelmed that the villagers did not want all of the Notre Dame group's financial support. "If ever a place needs financial as­sistance, this is it," she said, 
' 
adding that Santa Cruz has no electricity, sewage, or water. "They told us that there were places in El Salvador even worse off than them. That blew my mind." 
The villagers will accept money to transport their sick to better medical care in San Salvador. 
"One of the most important parts of our relationship with Santa Cruz is that when we come back here, they get inter­national attention," noted Stroub. "It is then less likely that the government troops are going to go in there and blow up the village or occupy Santa Cruz like they did last year. That means that possibly U.S. aid will be cut off from the country. Human rights is a con­dition of U.S. aid to El Sal­vador." The Santa Cruz com­munity was formed by refugees just over two years ago when they refused to be further uprooted by the mili­tary and settled in an aban­doned village, said Stuart. 

"LAST-DAY-OF-CLASSES" SENIOR FAREWELL 
Thanks for the Good Times 
W[KJ~~ Fieldhouse Mall W[KJ~[h]~ Friday. April 29th 
LITJ[M]~ 4-6 PM 
ALL ARE WELCOMEI 


Thursday, April 28, 1988
The Observer 

Steve Holthaus celebrates his birthday by being "laked" at the hands of Kevin Whelan, Mike Eraci, John McDevitt, and Chuck Nevins. The cool lake 
Arms 
continued from page 1 
sisting deficiencies in certain critical categories of NATO's conventional forces," the publication said. 
The INF treaty will require both natiops to eliminate all missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles. 
The Senate is expected to consider it next month and when it finally votes, ratifica­tion is likely since leaders of both parties say 90 or more senators are expected to vote for it. Ratification requires the approval of 67 of the 100 senators. 
The assessment also warned that "although the Soviet Union is narrowing the technological gap, the United States and its allies maintain the technologi­cal lead." 
"This lead will continue to diminish, however, unless the 
U.S. . maintains strong safeguards against the Soviets' sophisticated efforts to acquire technology," the report forecast. 

Strike 
continued from page 1 
after work," said the steel workers' statement, signed by 16 members of the workers' strike committee and read over the telephone. 
A strike committee member, Maciej Mach, said manage­ment hinted during talks ear­lier Wednesday evening that force could be used to break the strike, but he said this only strengthened workers' resolve. 
"There is enormous pressure on us to stop," he said. "Various arguments are used, including psychological argu­ments, arguments of fear that December 1981 may be repeated." 
On Dec. 13, 1981, soldiers and police suppressed Solidarity and arrested hundreds of union supporters. 
temperature undoubtedly added excitement to the air of celebration. 
CAR WASH 
South end of Notre Dame Stadium sponsored by: Notre Dame Varsity Football Team 
Members of the team will be washing cars --Fri. 12-6 Sat. 7-7 
Proceeds go to Logan Center 

Contra judge accuses Reagan of withholding classified documents 
Associated Press 
promptly what is taking place 

WASHINGTON -The Iran­and what is going to take Contra trial judge accused the place." Reagan administration Wed­Gesell said the case has en­nesday of intentionally holding countered a serious obstacle back classified documents because of the administration's needed by the defense, and "intentional withholding of warned that charges would be documents necessary for the dismissed if the stonewalling defense." continues. He also has said the case can­
U.S. district Judge Gerhard not go to trial unless the admin­Gesell blamed the dilemma not istration declassifies relevant on independent counsel documents that may be Lawrence Walsh, but on an introduced as evidence. inter-departmental task force White House and Justice De­that has control over hundreds partment officials could not be of thousands of secret docu­reached immediately for com­ments that may be needed in ment. the case. Gesell said, "We cannot 
"A stone wall is being built satisfy the maximum desires of up between this court and the the inter-departmental com­trial,'' Gesell said at the end of mittee" and added he was not a day-long pre-trial hearing. interested in trying to sum­
Noting that Walsh has tried marize "contents of masses of to get the documents for the documents." defense, the judge said: "The Gesell has ordered Walsh to responsibility lies with the at­make up to 300,000 pages of torney general and the White classified documents available House. I want to find out to the defendants. 

)EfifiY UBEJt! 
YOU'RE A GREAT SISTER! 
LOVE, 
LIZ 
Paris $229 Tel Aviv $355 Madrid $220 Rio $385 Shannon $225 Tokyo $499 
Council Travel/GlEE the largest and oldest student travel network in America has 1 OO's of student, youth and budget air fnres worldwide. Scheduled carriers! Book, anytime! Gu&ranteed reserva­tions! Flexible returns! Fly in/out any city! Some restrictions apply. Above fares 112 round trip from Chicago. Call us for FREE Student Travel Catalog. 

Coundl1lravel 
831 Foster St. 29 E. Delaware P~. vanston, IL 60201 Chic; go, IL 60611 
312/475-5070-31 !/951-0585 
,<1% 
1 800 545 8' 39 
\. 

Thursday, April 28, 1988 
Guerrillas killed on lsreali border 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Palestinian guerrillas crossed Israel's heavily guarded border from Lebanon for the second day in a row Wednesday and wounded a truck driver before soldiers caught them in a ravine and killed them, the army said. 
No Israeli army casualties were reported. 
Israeli officials said the in­crease in cross-border raids appeared connected with nearly five months of violence in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Documents found on the two dead guerrillas showed they planned to take hostages and try to exchange them for Arab prisoners held in Israeli jails, using U.S. Ambassador 
Thomas  Pickering  as  a  
negotiator, Israel  radio  re­ 
ported.  

Settlements in northern Is­rael were put on alert during a three-hour search for the guer­rillas by foot patrols and helicopters. Roads were closed and men were told to stand guard with guns. Women and children were ordered to stay indoors. 
On Tuesday, three guerrillas crossed the border at the same spot. They and two soldiers were killed when an army pa­trol found them. 
A 14-year-old Palestinian girl died Wednesday of wounds suf­fered the day before when Is­raeli soldiers opened fire during an Arab protest in the occupied West Bank, the army and hospital officials said. 
Her death brought to at least 174 the number of Palestinians killed since a rebellion began Dec. 8 among the 1.5 million Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, which Israel has oc­cupied since the 1967 war. An Israeli soldier and a Jewish set­tler also have been killed. 
The guerrillas crossed the border unnoticed, and it was the truck driver who alerted troops after running away from the assailants, said the source, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. 
Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting andit maybe your last opportunity to grad­uate with an Army Officer's commission. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COW(i_E COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Scholarships this Summer 
rrick 239-6264 
Ill 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
~CLUB 
* DJ's! * 
Applications for DJ's at 
Alumni Senior Club can be picked up at the Student Activities office 
3rd floor of Lafortune Just make sure to turn them back in BEFORE YOU LEAVEll 

Two Pasquerilla West residents resort to studying Luckily the gray skies provided enough light to read ~ indoors as Wednesday's weather did not cooperate the textbook's words of wisdom. with temperatures suitable for outdoor edification. 
Reagan assures Canada U.S. is moving to stop acid rain 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan told Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney on Wednesday to "make no mis­take, we are moving" against environmental pollution, but Mulroney demanded more ac­tion to stop U.S. acid rain from "killing our lakes, soiling our cities." 
A senior U.S. official told reporters Mulroney gave Reagan "some private ideas" on how they might reach agree­menton the issue. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, could offer no details on those ideas. 

At a welcoming ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House, Reagan told the Canadian leader, ''More can be done to protect our environ­ment when science clearly points the way. Make no mis­take, we are moving." 
The U.S. government con­tends that more needs to be done in developing clean coal technology before targets and 
NDAVEAPTS. 


SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AvAILABLE C!lso renting for Fall 
;.::.;;:.;. ·:::::6·:. 
2 Bedrooms completely furnished )i, 
CALL 234-6647 
'(j~~
of 20" Discount 
except sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C.. Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
timetables can be set for reduc­
ing coal-fired power plant emissions that Canadians say are damaging their forests and lakes. 

Canada has been pressing for an agreement on a timetable to reduce emissions to specified levels. In an interview before ~ leaving Ottawa, Mulroney likened the U.S. acid-rain emis­sions to this country "dumping garbage" on its northern neigh­bor. 
Asked about this as the two 

I,
leaders posed for photog­raphers before their meeting in ,1 the Oval Office, Mulroney said, "I think it's very clear that acid rain has that effect on the en­vironment in the eastern United States and Canada, yes. I think that's a normal fact." 
Mulroney pleaded before a joint meeting of Congress for what he acknowledged would be expensive programs to clean up U.S. emissions, which he said caused half the acid rain that has killed 15,000 Canadian lakes and threatened or damaged 300,000 more. 

"Half of our acid rain comes across the border, directly from the United States, falling , upon our forests, killing our 
; 1 
lakes, soiling our cities," Mul­roney told Congress. 
"It is despoiling your envi­ronment as inexorably as ours," he said. "It is damaging your environment from Mic­higan to Maine, and threatens marine life on the Eastern 

l 
Seabord." 1 He said Canadian acid rain wafting to the United States 1 
1
will be halved by his govern­

1
ment's programs. "We ask nothing more than this fron ~ you. 
"We invite the administra­tion, and the leadership of Congress, to conclude an ac­cord whereby we agree on a schedule and targets for reduc­ing acid rain that crosses our border," he said. "The cost of reducing acid rain is substan­tial, but the cost of inaction is greater still. 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 28, 1988 


•

Palestinians suffer undue repress1on 
This article is written because an ar­ticle, printed in the Viewpoint column on April 20 by Billy Lerman, called to my attention many grave misun­derstandings on the situation in Pales­tine today and in the past, which I would like to address. I would like to address specifically the issues raised in Mr. Lerman's article because they seem 
I most representative of the generalI public who have had little exposure to the problems in Palestine. 
f 
I Michele Burkart 
t guest column 
.. 
The belief that the Israelis are the cause of the Palestinian's anguish is not a myth. It is a fact. Prior to Israeli occupation, the Palestinians suffered no discrimination on the basis of their ethnicity, no fear of arrest for not having their ID cards with them, and no fear that they may be shot for trying to gather to demonstrate their political beliefs. For centuries the Palestinian peacefully inhabited the region of Palestine with no more than the regular problems of a~ation. Their problems originated wi't\flke Zionist call for a homeland in 1917~~tensified with the formation df the tsraeli state in 1948, and continue today for those in refugee camps and in the state of Israel. The simple problem is that a whole nation was forced to move from its homeland or suffer under Israeli domination. The Palestinians have no home. The prob­lem is that there is a refusal of the Is­raeli government to recognize the right of the Palestinians to a homeland. This is not a myth. 
There seems to be a misunderstand­ing of the Palestinians' "voluntary" abandonment of their homeland. On April 10, 1948, the Arab village of Deir Yassin was taken over by Zionist forces. The Zionist forces butchered 254 men, women and children and threw their mutilated bodies in a well. This massacre of non-combattants and in­nocents struck panic into the Palestin­ian villagers and began a large-scale exodus from Palestine. This pattern of massacre and fear of the Israelis did cause many Palestinians to flee their homeland without seeing an Israeli sol­dier for fear of their lives. Would any sane person stay home is the practice of tlteir invading enemy was to murder children and parade captured women? 
There seems also to be a problem with the claim to a Palestinian homeland. It is not a fraudulent claim. The Jews are indeed recognized as having been in Palestine before the ad­vent of Islam, but even in the Bible there are references to the Philistines, now known as Palestinians. The Pales­tinians have lived on the land contin­uously for centuries, but forty years ago were forced off this land by the Israelis. The Palestinians have a greater claim on the land of Palestine than the Israelis do--they have been there much longer and have been forced from it. The Palestinians left their homeland under the fear of death 

fl./CU., 'lOU Wa?e A I 6()893 I 8/TINT!Mti?A71N6. /J/1? COM/3 
ANI? YOl/ S4/A/ EV· ONA UTTl/3 BRYTHIN6/N TliRM'3 7lRON6 WJCK OF POt/TitS. TH/3N. 
or repression and with the hope that the world and their Arab allies would somehow help them to regain their land and give them the rights the world clamored to give the Jews after the Nazi Holocaust. 
Mr. Lerman's article raised another point which seems typical of the misun­derstanding of the situation of the Palestinians. The Palestinians are not an autonomous group within the state of Israel. They are not given the right of self-determination, nor are they given the freedom to move about freely. The Palestinians are forced to suffer under a repressive policy directed at them in the land that was theirs for centuries. No autonomous group within a state has been subject to the ills the Palestinians have suffered. They are deprived of many basic human rights and can be held in prison without con­tact with their families or with the out­side world. Palestinians are not given the right to gather in a political demonstration--since December 1987 over 200 Palestinians have been killed with live ammunition while trying to exercise their basic right as residents in a so-called democracy. Is this "autonomy"? Autonomy is understood as self-determination under the overall rule of a federal or central government (a right given to Jews under the Muslim Ottoman Empire). The Palestinians are given no such rights and are not even given the rights of the Jewish resi­dents of Israel. 
-Another point that was raised was that of "the Palestinians in the occu­pied territor-ies are there because of their political value in tallying world opinion against Israel." Those brave enough to stay in Palestine under Is­raeli occupation did so out of a love of the land which their ancestors had cul­tivated for centuries. They were willing to brave deportment, arrest, persecu­tion, second-class citizen status and fear in order to live in their ancestors' land. Some even had faith in the Israeli promise for fair treatment under the law. Those who are today trying to draw world attention to their plight are the children of those brave enough to remain in Israel in 1948. Those rallying and dying for world attention and un­derstanding are young people in their teens and twenties. They recognize that their problems will not be solved under the current rule and need the world to give them a chance for a homeland. They did not choose to stay in Palestine forty years ago, but now are trying to bring about the changes that are 
Garry Trudeau 
NICOt/3, NO, YOU IXJN7; I UJV/3 8l/TIKNOWYOU. II/HAT YOl/ 
I MMN. 
\ 
needed for their survival as a 
nationality. 
The standard of living in Palestine has not improved under Israeli occupa­tion as is commonly believed. The eco­nomy is being artificially sustained by 
U.S. tax dollars and by donations of private American citizens. The stan­dard of living is high for those European and American Jews who emigrated to Israel, but is not true for the poorer Middle-Eastern Jews and for the Palestinians. I would encourage those who have questions on this to read "In the Land of Israel" by an Israeli, Amos !)z, for further information. 
It was suggested that "the facts clearly point out that the solution rests in the irresponsible hands of the Arab world." This, too, it erroneous. First, the Arabs are not irresponsible. They have made attempts to help the Pales­tinians according to their limited means. The real solution lies in Israel dealing with the United Nations and with the legitimate, United Nations­recognized, PLO (Palestine Liberation Organization) and in Israel's being will­ing to help resolve this problem without resorting to such neo-Nazi techniques as trying to eradicate the Palestinians as a solution to their problem. 
It should be kept in mind that the PLO is the legitimate voice of the Pales­tinians scattered throughout the Middle East in refugee camps and in Israel. It is not a terrorist organization, although factions within the PLO have been known to engage in terrorist activities in order to have their cause heard. 
There is no question that the Jews have a right to a homeland, but there is no reason that their right should over­shadow the rights of those they dis­placed and are persecuting in their at­tempt to maintain such a homeland. The Israelis should try to keep in mind their persecution under Nazi Germany and try to avoid making such an in­human error in their treatment of the Palestinians. 
I would like to ask the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community to try to learn more before they accept at face value statements about both the Pales­tinians and the Israelis. The next time you read about a Palestinian teen being shot in the street by an Israeli soldier, or about the plight of a Palestinian refugee, recall the facts and not the myths generated out of ignorance before you make up your opinion on this issue. 
Michele Burkart is a senior govern­ment major. 
Quote of the Day 
"What we call the beginning is often the end. And to make an end is to make a beginning. The end is where we start from." 
T.S. Eliot 

Ihe Observer Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shi~s 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of ., 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the Views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Phgto Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 


Accent
Thursday, April 28, 1988 
page 9 

Focus on new aspects of academics 
TAMRYN ETIEN a group as Collegiate Mentors. The office has other areas it talk and have to talk about Doug Kinsey and Sigmund accent writer These professors would wants to address, such as "ex-something of substance," Abeles Art Exhibits were exam-ideally help create "more tending the classroom" by of-Swartz said. pies of this integration. Last May, The College of Arts meaningful contact outside of fering receptions and discus-Starting next fall, ten dorms, Although the "honors" desig­
and Letters Advisory Coun-the classroom, ...not just at sions before and after lectures, five men's and five women's, nation has previously been ell decided it needed to en-preregistration," said Swartz. performances, and films. will be designated by the col-given before a student enters hance the life of the under-One way the office hopes to According to Swartz, this se-lege for experimental sopho-Notre Dame, the college will graduates In the college. achieve this is by constructing mester the office has span-more core courses. These ten now "enrich that grade with 
In the fall of 1987, the Office two areas in O'Shaughnessy sored pre-performance and will be paired, and nine men people appointed after their of the College Fellow opened. Hall as facult)VStudent areas. post-performance discussions and women from each will be freshman and sophomore 
"The deans do a fine job," "O'Shaughnessy is not ac-of "Amadeus" to "help under-chosen to attend core class years." Swartz said. These ap­said Professor Thomas Swartz, comodating as far as faculty stand the play, why it was together in the dorms. polntments would be "to stu­the college fellow, "but there and student interaction be-staged the way It was." It has This is part of an experiment dents who show Intellectually are certain aspects of tween classes," Swartz said. also sponsored receptions for to bring academics into the aggressive attitudes." academics that we desperately "We're going to remodel the speakers brought in by depart-dorms. The idea could possibly The office also offers services needed to address." great hall into a coffee shop ments in the college, such as be extended in a few years to· to professors. It recently held 
The office plans to do part of for faculty and students," a job Shirley Chisolm and Arthur bring "a sophomore year workshops on lecturing tech-this by "bringing professors which he said should begin this Schlessinger. abroad at home," Swartz said, niques, honesty In the Notre and students together to enrich summer. The office has also span-which would have ali sop-Dame classroom, leading dis-the Intellectual life of our stu-Swartz also said that plans sored field trips to the Henry homores living in and attend-cussion groups, and contract-dents," he said. are being made to move the Ford Museum, the Art Institute ing classes in the same build-ing with the students through 
Last May, the college ap-Office of the College Fellow of Chicago, and to Stratford, ing. use of a syllabus. pointed Swartz as College Fel-which is currently on the third Ontario's annual Shakespeare The office is also trying to "The office shows our com-low, chose professors from floor of O'Shaughnessy. Its festival. The eight-hour Strat-integrate the honors programs mitment to the undergradu­each department in the college vacant space will become a ford trip gives the students and with the college at large by ate," said Swartz. "We're spend-to act as Collegiate facult)VStudent lounge. The of-faculty a chance to discuss real making honors activities open ing a lot of bucks...to make Teacheli'Scholars, and selected flee will move down the hall. things. "You run out of small to all students. This year, the that easier to happen." 
Fehlner receives Fellowship 
ing more about the process of people can go to when they
KATHY LENNEY film making. need to find answers to prob­
accent writer 

T
Having taught at Notre Dame lems. It is also my job to pro­since 1964, Fehlner greatly vide educated people for the homas Fehlner, Notre Dame enjoys his work. "The most future," said Fehlner. professor of chemistry was enjoyable aspect of my job is This organic chemist believes awarded a Guggenheim Fellow­meeting new students. I've that research is necessary for ship Award for studies in thin taught many non-chemistry the life of his discipline. He ' film deposition. The Founda­majors and have had the op­respects the freedom he has In tion grants funds to help fel­portunity to meet a broad university research. He said, lows secure a block of time, cross-section of undergradua­"The important aspect of uni­free from other duties, during tes," said Fehlner. versity research is that one Is
I 

I which to pursue their own A large number of factors not restrained by anything but -­scholarly creative work. · Fehlner have shaped the path that has oneself." University research Is will conduct his research at the led Fehlner to study the field of necessary to generate new University of Wisconsin and will inorganic chemistry. "I have ideas and developments. "To visit universities in Germany been influenced by my inter­make progress and push back and England. ests, my successes, and the the frontiers of knowledge, we 
The 1988 Committee of Se­funding I've received," said need the freedom to go where lection chose 262 artists, Fehlner. He believes that a our nose leads us," said scholars, and scientists from scientist's job is two-fold. First. Fehlner. among .3, 265 applicants, total­publishing one's research is Yet, Fehlner believes that Ing $6,.34.3,000. necessary to provide insight research cannot be the end all. 
The fellows were selected into the many mysteries of life. "We can't forget about the stu­because of distinguished Second, and just as important. dents or eventually chemistry achievements in the past and is one's responsibility to ed­will die," he said. He hopes his exceptional promise for future ucate the students. teaching will excite his students accomplishment. Fehlner will "My job Is to put ideas in the because they will be the scien­spend his sabbatical year learn-bank. The library is the bank tists of tomorrow. 
Delay effective for Oils 
S
ANN SEIFERT around campfires at night. Peter Gifford and the scathing accent writer Their theory was that if a song vocals of Peter Garrett. They o far this year, only a few sounded complete around a play a jangly yet hard type of albums have really stood campfire, with just acoustic pop music, which seems to out for me. One of these al­guitars, it would sound com­challenge the listener as it bums is definitely Diesel & plete in the studio as well. carries him along. Dust by Midnight Oil. This When Midnight Oil returned This album topped the charts group is Australian, and this to the studios in Australia to in Australia the first week it entire album has a carefree record Diesel & Dust. it was was released. The Oils also 
...... 

traveling tone that just never ready. The group had perfected struck it rich in Australia with stops. Every song seems com­songs like "Beds Are Burning" their song "The Dead Heart." plete, which may be a result of and "Warakurna" with its con­This cut, probably the best one the fact that this is Midnight stant reworklngs and practices off the album, went to £1 
Oil's first album In three years. together. nationwide in Australia. Its first 
After their last LP in 1985, The I 0 songs on Diesel & verse tells us "We don't serve Red Salls In the Sunset the Dust are all very political and your country, don't serve your Oils took some time off to play comment on the social situa­king/ Know your customs, In the small pubs of Australia. tion in the land down under. don't speak your tongue." This They reestablished the crucial For example, the first single In wonderful song was written for 
audience-band connection this the United States, "Beds Are the people of the desert lands way. Burning," talks about taking in Australia. 
The five band members also land from native Australians, The songs "Dreamworld," went on a trip across the and boldly proclaims: "It "Sometimes," and "Whoah" are heartland of Australia In 1987, belongs to them. Let's give it also worthy of single status. album unfolds. 
and camped out and got to back!" If you've heard this Some slower cuts are "Arctic The strong lyrics and won­know the country and Its song, you know how catchy it World" and "Warakurna," which derful melodies of all these people. The members really is. run together nicely and form a songs constitute an album that 
grew together during this trip, Midnight Oil's sound is thread of feeling that becomes I would highly recommend to and they worked on their songs carried along by the bass of stronger as each song on the any listener. The fact that com-
The Obserwi>Rob Regovlch 
Professor Fehlner takes a break from his research In the laboratory. 

--------------------------------------~~-----~ 
Thursday, April 28, 1988

page 10 The Observer 
n.a....Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent eem., 8001Pts claaalfled .m.ttling from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fncs.,. The a....s.mt ~office, located on the third floor of tt.gg.-Collge Center, 8001Phl c'-lfleda from 12:30 p.m_ untll3 p.m., Monday through Fncs.,. Deadline for next~ claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds must 

Classifieds be prepaid, either In person « by mall. The charge Is 10 cenhl per five charKter'a per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, physician and psychologist, deeply wishes to adopt newborn. Welcoming warm lam· lly, love, opportunities! Expenses paid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect 212-724·7942. 
Professors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to make an appointment. 10-5:30 7 day&Week 
Wordproceulng-Typlng 272-8827 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
WORO¢PLUS Scholastic Typing-Editing Rush Jobs O.K. 256-3077 
Computer Art Fair Friday, April 29 in Riley Hall Room 200. Come see the latest in Interactive Art, Vidaodisks, and Computer Music at 4 
p.m. 
and Computer Animation Videos at 5 p.m. Don't miss the most innovative computer and art work Notre Dame has seen in years. 

COMPUTING CENTER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES The Computing Center is now taking ap­plications for Fall'88 student employment within the User Services group. Posrtions are available in both microcomputer and multi-user system areas. Experience preferred, but not required for the appli­cation process. Freshmen. sophomores, and women are especially encouraged to apply~ For more information, contact Lisa at 239-5153 from 8:30a.m~ to 5:00 

p.m. 
Monday -Friday or stop by Room 11 of the Computing Center. 


MAY-JULY CARING PERSON exp w-j:Jre-schoolers. needed for da)M'>vng care of our 3 tots (aged 10 mos, 2, 4) in our home. If you can provide care 1 aM'Ik OR occasional evngs OR occasional overnites, phone 232· 7273. $3.5tlr; 11.1 hr wlk to NO. 

\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: brown leather wallet with every· thing valuable in ~-Please return it to me and i will give you a reward~ If you're a blonde 6' male and want to keep the minnesota licanse as a fake id be my guest but please give me back the copy card,insurance cards, and instant cash card for my bank at home. and give me the nd id because tt doesn't do you any good keep the credit cards because they're no good anymore anyway i lost it on wednesday, april 13 at night be· tween the future home of the international peace studies and alumni either call1 060 or leave it anonymously in 207 alumni if you want the reward call 
FOUND: BASKETBALL. CALL 1657 WITH DETAILS AND DESCR!PT!ION. 
FOUND: RHINESTONE SHOE ORNA­MENT AT SENIOR FORMAL. CALL 283-2871. 
FOUND HP15c CALL 1453 
LOST: Gold Ring with "NCC" inscription. Very important. Please call Colin at 1078. 
LOST: A blue-jean jacket with a set of KEYS inside. Lost on Saturday April 23. If found, please call -1 need my keys back!! Call Ellie at x1253. 
LOST: A blue Notre Dame jacket with T.,...Kwon-Do ancl the name Rich embroldenad on II. Taken from Senior Bar last Saturday night. Call 2235­
LOST: One SHARP CALCULATOR and a CROSS PEN & PENCIL set in a tan case. Was droppped between N. Dining Hall and Farley. PLEASE return to TINA at x2702, 322 or 318 PW. NEEDED FOR FINALS!!! THANKS! 
LOST: Black & gray pinstripe jacket at Tivoli's 4't 9. AND FOUND: Guy's black jacket at Tivoli's 4't 9. I'm hoping we just switched jackets. Please call Mary Beth 4558. 
LOST! LEVI DARK BLUE JEAN JACKET WCHECKED LINING FROM SR. BAR LAST THUR. MY NAME AND ADRESS ARE ON A LETTER IN THE POCKET WHICH I NEED, NOT TO MENTION THE SENTIMENTAL VALUE OF WHO GAVE ME THE JACKET. I KNOW IT WAS ONLY A MISTAKE, AND AS A DECENT PERSON AT A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY YOU WILL RETURN IT TO ME. THANKS II JIM 4o85 
lost: one blue nd napsack with two silver fingerprints containing my id, detex, driver's lisence, keys. and clothes~ most treasured is the picture of my grandparents. please return asap. call lisa x4455 
'" FORRENT 
NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 

6-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR 9 MO LEASE FOR FALL.272-6306 
Plan for FALL! Large 5 bedroom house near Campus. Furnished or unfurnished. Also available for summer~ Call 272-7258 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER RENT CALL ERIC X·1606 
WANTED ROOMMATE FOR APARTMENT IN GEORGETOWN FROM JUNE TO AU­GUST. GREAT LOCATION AND REASONABLE PRICE. CALL STEVE X1654 
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB-LET 2 BDRM IN TURTLE CREEK PREF. FEMALE RENTERS CALL JENNY 284-4289 
ARE YOU GOING TO BE HERE THIS SUMMER WITH NOWHERE TO LIVE ? WORRIED ABOUT HAVING TO LIVE ON CAMPUS UNDER SUCH STRENUOUS REGULATIONS ? WORRY NO MORE II TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER RENT AT TURTLE CREEK II GIVE US A CALL AT 3498 OR 3506 AND WE'LL SET YOU UP WITH ROOMMATES (OR YOU CAN BRING YOUR OWN). WE DON'T CARE !! JUST CALL US OR SPEND A SUM­MER HERE WITH LIMITED FUN AND MAXIMUM RULES•...-3498 OR 3506 
································································ 
WANTED 
National Marketing Company looking for ambitious Jr., Sr., or Grad student to manage promotions on-campus this fall. Earning potential up to $5,000. Aexlble part-time hours. Call Randl or Dee at (BOO) 592·2121. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANilWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914 3814224 
DESPERATE AND WILLING TO PAY...for graduation tickets call Monica £3938 
Want to go to Europe? Female senior wants travel prtner-Call 3938 
Looking for used Mac call Todd at 1639 with model and price 
GRADUATING? MOVING TO IN­DIANAPOLIS? LOOKING FOR FEMALE TO SHARE APT OR HOUSE. CALL 277­5906 
RELIABLE person looking for fully fur­nished private apartment or house for the summer. Call 3765. 
THE CSC NEEDS AN ART­!STtCALLIGRAPHER FOR THE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR TO DESIGN POSTERS FOR ITS PROGRAMS AND EVENTS. IF INTERESTED PLEASE CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AT 239·9253. 
WANTED MALE ROOMATE, NEXT YEAR PREFERABLY AT RUNAWAY BAY APTS CALL JOHN 255-7137 
Need ride to Colorado during or following senior week. Willing to share expenses and provide sleepover for those going to California. Call Pete at x3105. 
RIDE NEEDED to Wash. D.C. Area after finals. I can leave Fri. May 6 after 4pm. Call Rich £3485 
Summer School? Female roomate needed to sublet for summer. Cheaper than dorms! Karlene £4068 
Anyone with videotape of NO-ALA foot­ball game-please call Sharon 284-5260 
FOR SALE 
IBM PO?<T Model 086 1OMb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price includes DOS 2.1 , documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 

FOR SALE: 18" K-TV, 2 LARGE LAMPS, SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL-SIZE BAR, 2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS ....... CALL 271-0868 ...................... 
1981 Olds Wagon 89000 miles Excel· 
lent Condition New tires, brakes, car­
borator. $2200 271-11765 

76' ELDORADO 69000 MLS NO RUST NO DENTS NEW EXHAUST $900 AL­PINE SYSTEM $3200 CALL ED AT 232 1198 AFTER 6 PM 
AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ANIMALS FOR SALE 50% OF RETAIL PRICE £ 232­1198 
Moving off campus? Creating a perty room? For Sale: Matching loveseat and armchair...chocclate brown strong wood frame, top cond~ion, bought practically new, used only one semester...great price...call 2170 ... in time for hall storage. 
Refrigerator for $50 -like new 
call Colette at 287-0742 
Smith-Corona XD6500 
Mem.Writer;W'Spellwrite,xtr~printwheel,low 
mileage $300;684-0538. 
1978 4-Door VW Rabbit 92,000 miles. Good Cond. $950. Call 288-6154. 
AN TOSTAL T·SHIRT LIQUIDATION $5 X1951 
FOR SALE! Brand new full size bed, giant dresser with mirror. Call 277-9022. 
FOR SALE: BROTHER TYPEWRITER, 2-STEREO SPEAKERS, BICYCLE-­MUST SELL CALL 289-6623 AFTER 7:00PM 
79 Blue Chevy Impala. Good condition. Call 3282--Steve 
1977 924 PORSCHE, 65,429 MILES. $5,700. CALL 272·5696. 
FOR SALE: 1983 YAMAHA MOTOR­CYCLE. GOOD CONDITION. 4000 MILES. BEST OFFER. CALL AN AT 283­3022. 
For Sale Alto Saxaphone and Casio Key· board Call 259-8811 Jennifer 
1985 NISSAN SENTRA Sta.Wag. air,radio,4-spd.,34,000 miles, Excellent Condition. Call after 5pm 272-6401 
TICKETS 
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN 
HELP!! I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233-4176 
OUR FAMILIES ARE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO, SO WE NEED 10 GRADUATION TIX. WILL PAY ANY PRICE. CALL 277-72611 
I NEED 1 GRAD TIC $DAN 234-5346 
HELP! We need grad tix real bad. If you've got any to spare call Dan 1434 or Yvonne 288-0943. WE WILL PAY~ 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL JOSE 3346. 
NEED GRAD TIX $$$$ 288-8730 $$$ 
For Sale: South Bend to LaGuardia round trip airline tix. Leave South Bend friday May 6, 2:15 PM. Cheapll $100. 272­0579. 
GRAD. TIX needed --COLIN x4656 
PERSONALS I· 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week 233-2342 
ATIENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur· chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
Bartles Imports BMWMAZDNVW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th 
Cruise Ships now hiring all positions. Both skilled and unskilled. For informa­tion Call (615) 292-6900 Ext. H-408. 
Have A Coke And A Smile 
Now that Rock is done, What's next? Could it be the WWF? Watch out Randy Savage. 
Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4 x 4's Seized in drug raids for under $1 00.00? Call for facts today. 602-837-3401, Ext. 881. 
Omar Omar Omar Happy Birthday 
MY SIS NEEDS RIDE FROM MADISON, WI AREA TO NO FOR MY GRADUA· TION SHE CAN LEAVE AFTERNOON OF MAY 14, PLEASE CALL MIKE 1633 
FRIDAY, APRIL 29,1S THE LAST REG· ULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. IF YOU WANT TO SAY GOODBYE TO YOUR FRIENDS BY PUTIING IN A CLASSIFIED, YOU NEED TO SUBMIT YOUR CLASSIFIED BY 3 PM TODAY. 
LUMI 4 years at Duke, and you never got a personal. See what happens when you come to a COOL school? Have a great ttme In Chi-town, but but don't party too hard-you're not as young as you used to be!! 
SCOTI THOMPSON SCOTI THOMPSON SCOTI THOMPSON SCOTI THOMPSON turns 23 on Saturday, so wish him a HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE-ITHACA AREA·CAN LEAVE AFTER 4pm FRI ALYSSA-3736 
SENIORS: 
EMPLOYERS ARE STILL LOOKING 
FOR YOU! IF YOU ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THEM, DROP OFF ONE MORE COPY OF YOUR PROFILE FORM AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. WE WILL KEEP IT ON HAND AND SEND COPIES TO EMPLOYERS AS YOU MATCH THEIR REQUIREMENTS. 
SENIORS: 
EMPLOYERS ARE STILL LOOKING 
FOR YOU! IF YOU ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THEM, DROP OFF ONE MORE COPY OF YOUR PROFILE FORM AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. WE WILL KEEP IT ON HAND AND SEND COPIES TO EMPLOYERS AS YOU MATCH THEIR REQUIREMENTS. 
SENIORS: 
EMPLOYERS ARE STILL LOOKING 
FOR YOU! IF YOU ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THEM, DROP OFF ONE MORE COPY OF YOUR PROFILE FORM AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT. WE WILL KEEP IT ON HAND AND SEND COPIES TO EMPLOYERS AS YOU MATCH THEIR REQUIREMENTS. 
I STILL OWE YOU TWO BEERS, BUT YOU PROBABLY WON'T HOLD ME TO IT SINCE YOU ARE OF THE GENDER WITH GENTLE GRACE, QUICK SEN­SIBILITY, TENDER SUSCEPTIBILITY, PURITY, DELICACY, EMOTIONAL IM­PULSES AND SUBORDINATION OF HARD REASON TO SYMPATHETIC 
FEELING~ 

KLOG-1'11 be here for Senior Week if that counts. 
The D.C. club baggage trucks will be loading from 12-3PM on Weds~ at the bookstore and from 12-3PM on Thurs. on Stepan courts, and 3-4PM in front of LeMans on Thurs~ Any questions call Ed at £1474 
JOANIE BOTI: We've flipped quarters over SYR dates, thrown cheese squares at cows, drank vodka shots chased by rum&coke&crunchberries, laughed at break dancing racoons, amish~on­wheels, trailers and romance novels. Thanks for being such a great friend, I'll miss you next year!! your roomie 
BRENDA,DYLBIA,MAUREEN&JOANIE "and through the years we'll smile when we recall we had it all, for just a mo­ment..." I'll miss you guys! Love, Anne 
Kelly Anne, The last year has been filled with good times, bad times, and a lot of changes. Thanks for being there to help me over the mountains AND the molehills. Have a great summer! Love, Richelle 
To the guys of Alumni: Neil, Dan, Mike R., Pat, John N., ·Mark, Joey, Bill, Rob, Doug, Terry M., John C., Weez, Mike H., John S~, Terry E., and Mike B., Thanks for making this semester not only fun but also quite interesting at times. Have a great summer, and I will see you next year! Love, Richelle 
Denise, I hope you had fun this year at your very FAR home away from home. Enjoy your summer on the Island of Paradise for you will soon be back in snowy South Bend. Love, Richelle 
M.J. GRANT HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY!!! I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY. ITS BEEN A GREAT YEAR WITH YOU (U of M, THE CHIPPED TOOTH, "BEAUTIFUL EYES", THE AN­NUAL MULDOON'S TRIPS, etc.) HOLD TIGHT UNTIL SATURDAY NIGHT. MAYBE I'LL EVEN BUY YOU A BEER. 
LOVE KATHY 
ZETO NEWS UPDATE: Bassist Don El­bert and his lovely wife Barb are releasing an album this month featuring a collection of Don's favorite protest songs. 
"HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $15,CJ00.$68,000. Call (602) 838-8885. Ext. 6262. 
SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER 25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP COURSES. NOW THRU 6-15-88 FOR SOUTH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA ­SAVE $$$'Sill CALL 272-4135 FOR IN· FO. 
Ride needed to Binghampton, Syracuse area Fri. evening, May 6, or Sat. Just me and one very small suitcase. Will share expenses. Call Erin at x2732. 
........................................................ JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA· VICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SEMESTER. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SEMESTER. 
THANK YOU SAINT JUDE! 
LAST CHANCE DO MET-SHIRTS "2322 
ANYBODY CARE? I NEED RIDE HOME AFTER FINALS TO SOUTHERN CALI­FORNIA WILL SHARE EXPENSES!! X4017 
RIDE NEEDED to Balt.!Wash.DC area after graduation Rob £1204 
TICKET SALES FOR SENIOR MONTH ACTIVITESI!I Mon-Thurs, 3-5 pm, in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune A limited number of tickets are available so get your tickets now!! TICKET SALES FOR SENIOR MONTH ACTIVITES!!! 
SUMMER SCHOOL? Need 2 room­mates NO Apts. CHEAPER THAN DORMS Mike x4328 or Marty 239-6041 
CARPET ·CHEAP! BEIGE, 8' X 12' FITS McCandless double~ Buy it now and store it! Call Julie X5426 
Brian, JR(Joe Ross), & Jonno: Hope you do know how to do lines. Next time I see you I'll refresh you on the meaning of LSD, PCP, and anyth­Ing else. Good Luck. See ya In Florida. 
Love Kim 
Heidi Moser. how do you feel about ~ .. ? 
BELINDA CARLISLE-A LESSON TO ALL NO WOMEN ON WHAT A LOSS OF 151bs. CAN DO FOR YOU. 
HEY BUD! Guess what--only 1 more day and you'll never have to sit through a class again. Kind of a sad thought, huh? (No, you say?) Don't you think you'll miss those homework sets, computer projects and tests? (No, again? I can't win, can I?) Well, enjoy. I'll catch you later. (hint: same bat time, same bat channel) Love, me. 
MARTY WATIS FOR THE NBA DRAFT !! MARTY WATIS FOR THE NBA DRAFT !I PLACE YOUR BETS NOW ON WHAT ROUND HE'LL GO IN......!! 
VALERIE, I MEAN GUZ, HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY. COULD I INTEREST YOU IN A ZOMBIE OR EXTRA GOLD WITH A HOLE-WANT TO PFIFF? HOPE YOU HAVE A FAVORITE STALL PICKED OUT. (NO SMALL BOATS) WATCH OUT FOR JELLO, CHILl, PSYCHOMEN AND THE HORSE. MEET YOU AT 2. LOVE YA, KATIE G. 
A BABY WANTED. CARING, CATHOLIC COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION. CON­FIDENTIAL, LEGAL, ALL EXPENSES PAID. HELP US HELP YOU. CALL KATHY COLLECT AFTER 6PM 312­462-7898 
HELP!MY WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FROM GUATEMALA FOR COM­MENCEMENT AND NEED 2 EXTRA TICKETS!!!PLEASE CALL ANITA AT 1365.WILL PAY$$$!! 
The Juggling Club is a front. 
To: The Guys in 245 
South Hell, IN 46556-0245 
Well, this is it. First, how about that in­
vestigative journalism listed above? We 
are known for that. But, let's get to the 
point. Hope your year has been as painful 
as ours, but I'm glad we could help alle­
viate (Sorry about that big word) the pain, 
and we're not talking aspirin either. Good 
luck next year. Remember, London's 
Calling. 
From: Us 
Hell Central, The Flagship 
GONGBUTI; So how do you like Notre Dame? Praying together was heavenly & swimming was a splash. I'm going to miss this reoccuring nightmare over the summer. Thanks for making these last 2 months the best in my life. Hugs and Kisses, Hank the Spank 
Yo Jule-man, One More f1me ... Leftfield?... Center?... Second? ... You're much better at being a girlfriend than at being a Cub fan. I'll miss you next year. Love, B-Monster 
Dear John Mc0sker,F4 We are so sorry to hear about your father's worsening condition. Feel free to skip your exams. You can make them up any time, as far as we're con· cerned. Just have your buddy Monk straighten It out with us. Sincerely, Your teachers 
BERNIE BERNIE BERNIE HERE'S TO A WEEK OF HELL TO BE FOLLOWED BY A WEEK OF FRIVOLOUS, UNRESTRAINED, DOME­SHATIERING PARTYING. 
DO YOU THINK WILL SURVIVE?! 
STEVE MEGARGEE STEVE MEGARGEE STEVE MEGARGEE YOU'RE A SWEETHEART...AND I'D WORK WITH YOU ANY DAY!!! 
TOP 12 QUOTES FROM THE UTILE 500 WKND 
12. Let's go play the tube--just one more time. 11. Hey,M.,3 people warned me about that girl. 10. Hey, guys, its raining in S.B.. 9. Everywhere you look, there's a keg and a good looking chic. 8. I was touring with Captain Kl~er last night. 7. Spliff-Mon! What Mon'1 6. Where did_you sleep last night? 5. This place is £"" amazing! 4~ Hey, there's Lancer sucking mug. 3. Kiev, did you feel that string? 2. Welschie was out of control again last night. 1. That girt, she was the lowest member of the food chain! 
Note for Jeb Wubbabucket: I've missed you these past two weeks~ My love for you is overflowing like a urinal after an SYR. Being without you for so long has caused me to start eating cucumbers. If you still want me call x3663. THE CAL­LER 
x©~n ""%"" x"""'fl@® ©'lHa""@* 
CONGRATULATIONS!!! 
(I knew you could do it!) 
Honorously, NE no.1 
JACKIE DENEAULT NEVER GETS A PERSONALII 
Leanne and Sheila and co. 
We will you the copyright to Suite 233, 
Hell, and 233 Inc. 
Stay sweet and we'll see ya someday for 
spring break Two Cool Cats 
Phil and Train 
Yeah, I'll get you a job in Kansas City or 
LA in two years. 
It's been real. Enjoy your presidency~ Use 
people~ Sae you at Chavez Ravine~ 
A Cool guy and his roomie 
May I interject something here? Sorry about last night's lack of a score~ But you know that time change out west makes it late here. Before this went to print, I was down 1-0 in the second, but I had a guy at second base, which was promising. 
Thank you, St. Jude. 
ROCHESTER CLUB: There will no! be a baggage truck this semester~ Sorry for any inconvenience! 
TO: SMC JUNIOR ACCOUNTING MAJORS: At the begmning of the semes­ter we all made wagers on who would remain accounting majors. Could we sur­vive Intermediate with Renshaw? or how about Miller with the new tax law? Could we survive 3 acct'g classes with Cost? -our sanity, I think we lost. Merryman said wait til Intermediate II. now we've made it all the way through. A year from now we'll be on our way to hopefully passing the CPA. So let's all raise our glasses and make a toast For we'll get the faculty back at their roast. Have a great summer! K&K 
LANCE PATIEN 
I'VE KNOWN YOU SINCE FRESHMAN 
YEAR. WE ARE ABOUT TO 
GRADUATE AND I HAVE TO MEET 
YOU. YOU'VE GOT NICE.BUNS!! BE 
AT BRIDGET'S TONIGHT. YOU'LL 
KNOW WHO I AM. HUGS AND KISSES 
MUFFY 
P~S. BRING Me ALONG~ I HAVE A GOR­
GEOUS ROOMMATE. 
You figure if you've waited 6 months to get to Mars --you're not in any hurry to do anything 
I s~ll think it should nave been the Flying Purple Penetrator! 
Paul-! Did you once say Yankees talk with their hands? Well, I'm looking for­ward to another encounter, and I'm sure my hands won't talk too much. I won't tell anyone if you don't, ok? -Your Yankee pal 
To the girl I danced briefly with at the Center Street Blues Cafe about 2 months ago on REGGAE NIGHT (you wore a black dress). I saw you at Senior Bar last Thursday and although I was with an· other girl, I'd rather have been dancing wyou. TONIGHT. ANOTHER REGGAE BAND' Hope to see you there~ 
Say hi to Kevvy. Call 1170. 
Joan, Laura, and Molly: Thanks tor all the memories this year. I'll always re­member the cartwheels, late phone calls, early evel1ings (5:30 AM), back rubs, Budgeteer, long talks, daquiris, pizza par­ties, north-south-ali directions, mono, section bed, Jello and Kodak moments when you're in Europe next year. I know you guys won't let me get EMS next year, right? I hope you have a great time, but I'll miss you tons. I love ya! Karen 
TUCK Yeah, Yeah, you're cool Nyet 
BRYAN TUCKER We're going to miss you! Given Love Linda, Deb and Shan· non 
HI GIL! WE LUV U 
Just last night... 1 was reminded of... just how old you had gotten... and just how happy... 1 hope you've become!!! 
"Happy Birthday Snookums•• ( 1 never forgot it -· we all have our surprises!) 
································ 
KEVIN 'G.I. JOE' BOYLE 
································ 
Guess what? No phone!! Reconnection deadline April 29th. There is still life at NO, will call; MCAT:MCAT!MCAT;MCAT subtle eh! 
-the Irish Dog 
and his Minions 

------------------------------~--------------------------~-----------------------------~ ----­
Thursday, April 28, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Sports Briefs 
Aerobics and stretchercise sessions will be held during finals week. Aerobics will be held at 4:30 p.m. at Gym 2 of the Joyce ACC from Monday, May 2 to Thursday, May 5. Stretchercise will be held at 5:30 p.m. in Gym 2 of the JACC on Tuesday, May 3 and Thursday, May 5. -The Observer 
The ND Crew team will hold a mandatory meeting for all members tonight at 7:45 in Room 2044 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sweats will be distributed at this meeting for all who ordered them. -The Observer 
Women's varsity crew members must report to the boathouse tonight at 7 p.m. for a team photo. Please wear hooded crew sweatshirts and "Irish Crew" racing shorts. -The Observer 
The Burke Memorial Golf Course will hold graduation priority tee times on Friday, May 13 from 8 
a.m. to 4 p.m. and Saturday, May 14 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Call 239-5721 for special graduation reservations. Special graduation weekend hours of the course's pro shop will be 6:30a.m. to 8 p.m. on Friday, May 13, and 6 a.m. to 4 · 
p.m on Saturday, May 14 and Sunday, May 15. -The Ob­server 
Interhall soccer championships for the spring have Lewis and Farley meeting for the women's champi­onship, and St. Ed's taking on Alumni in the men's final. Lewis faces Farley at 4:30 p.m. today at Stepan South. St. Ed's meets Alumni at Stepan North. Alumni needs only one victory to take the championship, while St. Ed's must beat Alumni twice to win the title. -The Observer 
The Detroit Red Wings beat the St. Louis Blues 4-3 Wednesday night to earn a spot in the Campbell Confer­ence finals for the second straight year. -Associated Press 

• Mar Mn in Af)arL1ncnL~ 
* 
Convenient Downtown Location 

* 
Security Entrance 


• Utilities Included 
* 
Laundry Facilities on Premises 

* 
Range From $285 thru $425 

* 
Efficiencies Still Available 


125 W. Marion St. 233-2098 ask for Mary Jane Chase
,• ••••••••• 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS TUESDAY, MAY 3rd THRU SUNDAY, MAY 8th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND TABLE Will BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 3rd THRU MAY 8th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COllECT 
(LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED lOOibs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS: 

Ryan just misses no-hitter 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON-Houston's 41­year-old Nolan Ryan came within two outs of what would have been the sixth no-hitter of his record-breaking career Wednesday night, then settled for a no-decision as the Astros beat the Philadelphia's Phillies 3-2 on Craig Reynolds' bases­loaded grounder in the lOth. 
Ryan lost his no-hit bid when Mike Schmidt singled with one out in the ninth and blew his chance for a victory when Lance Parrish doubled home two unearned runs with two out. 
In the Houston lOth, Glenn Davis singled with one out off reliever Kent Tekulve, 0-2, and went to third on Kevin Bass' hit-and-run single. Alan Ashby was intentionally walked to load the base and Reynolds batted for Chuck Jackson. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
tated what Michigan State was able to do." 
McQuillan, who set a team season record with 22 saves (two short of the Irish all-time record), came out ready to play from the start with 14 saves in the first half. That perfor­mance takes on even further significance when compared to the Ohio Wesleyan game, in which McQuillan made 18 saves but gave up 17 goals. 
"Against Ohio Wesleyan none of us really played up to 
Expos 1, Reds 0 
MONTREAL-Pascual Perez pitched a two-hitter for his first shutout in four years as the Montreal Expos beat the Cin­cinnati Reds 1-0 Wednesday night. 
Perez, 3-2, struck out 10 and walked one. 
Mario Soto, 1-1, gave up six hits in seven innings, struck out five and walked two. 
The Expos scored in the third inning when Tim Raines led off with a triple and, after Mitch Webster walked, Hubie Brooks singled up the middle. 
Mets 5, Braves 2 
ATLANTA -Keith Hernan­dez tied the game with a two­run homer, Lenny Dykstra walked with the bases loaded and Mookie Wilson added a two-run single in a five-run ninth inning that rallied the New York Mets over the At-
our potential,'' said McQuillan, whose :670 save percentage ranks lOth in the country. "I knew I was a better goalie than to give up 17 goals. Games like that are bound to happen, but they even pump you up that much more. I had a lot of per­sonal ambition to win this game." 
Wednesday's game marked the homecoming of '85 graduate Justin Shay , who is now a Michigan State assis­tant. Shay, who senior Randy McDonald called the "defen­sive mentor" for Irish lacrosse, captained the Notre Dame squad his senior year and 

~**********************************~ 
* * 
* * 
* Any University-owned
*
*
* refrigerator is to be
*
* returned to Stepan
*
*
* Center Cleaned and
*
* 
* Defrosted on
*
*
* 
*
* Friday, April 29
* 
*
* Between 12pm and Spm
*
*
*
*
* Your $20.00 Deposit will** be refunded then.
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 

* * 
1*********************************! 
lanta Braves 5-2 Wednesday 
night. 
The Braves led 2-0 as Zane 
Smith scattered four hits over 
seven innings and Bruce Sutter 
pitched a hitless eighth. 
But Sutter left for a pinch hit­
ter and Paul Assenmacher, 0-2, 
took over. 
The victory went to David 
Cone, 2-0, with one perfect in­
ning of relief. Roger McDowell .got his first save, allowing one hi~ in the ninth. 
\., 
I ; 
Cardinals 2, Padres 1 
SAN DIEGO Tom Brunansky hit his first Na­tional League home run and -) rookie Luis Alicea had a run­scoring single as the St. Louis Cardinals beat San Diego 2-1 Wednesday night and snapped the Padres' four-game winning streak. 
tallied 16 goals and 8 assists as 
a four-year starting defen­
seman. 
Shay said the discipline, in­
tensity, and ball control evi­
dent on the Irish squad were 
crucial to the Notre Dame win. 
"That was the most dis­
ciplined Irish team I have ever 
seen and I don't know if my 
presence had anything to do 
with that," said Shay, who ack­
nowleged he had mixed emo­
tions between his alma mater 
and employer. 
"Notre Dame's ability to con­
trol the ball and get ground 
balls was key. They just 
wanted it more than we did and 
I think the fact that State beat 
them last year (16-5) for the 
NCAA bid really had the Irish 
fired up." 
The team's pressuring ball­
control strategy received a 
boost from first year middies 
Vinnie Vitale and John Ken­
nedy, who shuttled in on Notre 
Dame rides (attempts to stop 
the opponent's clear). Kennedy 
and Vitale not only came in to 
give the starting attackman a 
breather, but they also pro­
vided the advantage of longer 
sticks, which showed itself as 
the Irish stopped 11 of 25 the 
Spartans attempted clears. 
"We haven't been substitut­
ing much on attack this year 
and Vince and John have done 
such a good job in practice all year that I felt they were rea?y to contribute," O'Leary satd. "They made a definite ~iffer­ence in the game by helpmg us to control the ball." 
"It felt great to help the team win," Kennedy said. "Everybody played really well and it was a great victory." 
Olmstead will miss the Ohio State game Saturday because of the MCAT exam. He unoffi­cially f!nishes the year with 63 points (35 goals and 28 assists), but his five points against Windy City don't officially count because of that squad's club status. 
Olmstead's official 58 points ties for third on the Irish single­season scoring list. '82 graduate Steve Linehan holds the record with 64. Olmstead is fifth on the all-time scoring list with 107 points and set Irish records with nine points and seven assists in the Wittenburg game this year. His 4.85 goals per game average ranks tenth among players nationwide. 
page 12 
The Observer 


Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS-Steve Carlton, the winningest active pitcher in the major leagues en­tering this season, was released Wednesday by the Minnesota Twins. 
Carlton, 43, the only pitcher in baseball history to win four Cy Young Awards, was 0-1 this year with an earned run average of 16.76. He has a career record of 329-244. 
In 9 2-3 innings this season, the left-bander allowed 20 hits, 18 earned runs and five homers. 
Carlton is among baseball's all-time leaders in victories, strikeouts (4,136), innings pitched (5,216 1-3), complete games (254), starts (709) and shutouts (55). 
He was replaced on the roster by Mark Portugal, who was recalled from the Twins' Class AAA affiliate in Portland, Ore. At Portland this season, the 25­year-old right-hander was 2-0 with a 1.37 ERA in three starts. 
During the second half of his 23-year major-league career, he received almost as many headlines for his refusal to talk to the media as he did for being one of the stars of the game. 
Twins general manager Andy MacPhail said telling "Lefty" of his release Wednes­day afternoon was difficult. 
"It's never easy to release a baseball player, no matter who he is, but particularly someone with Hall of Fame creden­tials," said MacPhail, who is eight years younger than Carlton. 
Carlton's release came a week after the Twins cut 37­year-old left-bander Tippy Martinez. The Twins' pitching staff, ranked last in the Amer­ican League, still includes 43­year-old Joe Niekro, 37-year­old Bert Blyleven and reclamation project Charlie Lea. 
MacPhail said he didn't know oLany other teams interested in Carlton. 
Carlton holds numerous career records, including: 
Most consecutive starting as­signments (544); most strikeouts in a game by a left-handed pitcher (19) and by a losing pitcher (19); most balks in a season (11), a record sure to fall in this balk-filled cam­paign; most years and con­secutive years for an NL 
f"'""""'"'"""'"""""""""'"......'""""'"'"""""""""'"'"";................................... 


pitcher (22) ; most NL games started (677); most NL seasons and consecutive NL seasons with 100 or more strikeouts (18); most NL strikeouts (4,000); most NL walks issued (1,717). 
Carlton broke into the majors with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1965 and was up for good by 1966. A 1972 trade that sent Carlton to the Philadelphia Phillies for Rick Wise proved to be one of the more lopsided deals ever. 
Carlton went on to win his four Cy Youngs with the Phillies and helped Philadel­phia to five National League East titles, two NL pennants and one championship. 
A six-time 20-game winner, 
his best season was 1972, when 
he won his first Cy Young. He 
was 27-10 with a 1.98 ERA for 
a team that won only 59 games. 

M W 12-8 TT 12:30-8:30 
Thursday, April 28, 1988 

Golf team finishes with Midwest Invite 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
As the school year comes to an end, the Notre Dame Golf team prepares for the final leg of what has been a long and 
arduous season.  
This  weekend  the  Irish  
linksters  will travel  to  Lake  
Geneva, Wisconsin,  for  their  

last regular season competi­tion at the Midwestern Invita­tional. And lest there be any doubts about the task ahead, Head Coach Noel O'Sullivan's team will be confronting such Big Eight powerhouses as Kansas, Nebraska and Okla­homa. 
In a season replete with highs and lows, one bright beacon has been the steady play and lead­ership of senior captain Dick Connelly. The proud product of Perrysburg, Ohio, will have his last hurrahs as a member of the Irish squad. 
"Dick is the best all-around captain that I have ever had in my 16 years of coaching at Notre Dame," commented O'Sullivan. "He is one of the few who didn't just take from the program. He gave as well, and is leaving so much be­hind." 
Such a quality is indeed rare in a sport like golf in which so much emphasis is placed on in­dividual performances. However, Connelly has proven his true worth both on the golf course as well as in the class­room. He currently holds a 3.1 GPA as an accounting major, and combined with his 77 stroke average, Connelly has qualified for nomination as an Academic All-American ath­lete for the second year in a row. 
''The value of Dick Connelly cannot be measured," stated O'Sullivan. "He possesses indi­vidual skill on the golf course and a wonderful ability to get along with his coach and team­mates. Every one of the team members go to see Dick Con­nelly. He gives of his time not just with personal problems, but of anything that pertains to the game." 
O'Sullivan hopes that Con­nelly and the rest of the team have saved their best for last. The solid play of juniors Doug Giorgio and Pat Mohan paced the Irish last weekend for the initial two rounds but was not enough to garner a high place for the entire tourney. The traveling squad will be rounded out by sophomore Bobby Kloska and freshman Paul Nolta. 

...............................................
• 

!• City-Wide Liquors !• 
• 
: Meister Brau Michelob : 
: 24 cans $4.99 24 bttls. $9.99 : 
i• ·~~· OLD STYLE i• 
• '·""-~f· •
i ~~: .~!~,: ;~ ::~~-$ 799 i
. .
~~ • 

: Bud Light Budweiser : 
: 24 bttls. $8.99 24 bttls. $8.99 : 
: Longnecks Returnables :
. .
-! Bud 24 btls. $8.38 ! i Bud Light 24 btls. $8.38 i 
• K •
! egs i : Little Kings 15.6 gals. $26.99 : 
!• Busch 1.5.6 gals. $28.99 !• 
: LIQUOR : : Kemchatka Vodka Dubouchett : : 1.751 $7.99 Peach Schnapps : ! McCormick Gin Liter $4.99 ! i 1.751 $8.99 Kesslers i :Philadelphia Blend 1.751 $10.49 : : 1.751 $9.99 : 
: Wines : : Andre Champagne 750ml $2.59 :! Carlo Rossi 4 liters $5.59 ! 
•• -g ~ ••
i . I unee_..,--i
. .
~~ ~ .

. .
~

i JOO ~~; (i) ~ i 
: IrUnlveraltv Mall I : 
<»,~····· .•.•.: 
Thursday, April 28, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Women's tennis tops WMU 

By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team closed out its season with a 6-3 victory over Western Michigan Wednesday in a match marked by three defaults. 
The Irish finished at 12-14 for the spring and compiled a 14-14 record throughout the 1987-88 season. This year's schedule featured the most competitive opposition Notre Dame has faced to date. 
"We didn't reach our .500 goal, but numbers don't mean everything, " said Irish coach Michele Gelfman. "In terms of the development of the team, I think the girls held up under the upgraded schedule." 
Western Michigan (11-12), who had defeated Notre Dame 6-3 in last season's meeting be­tween the two teams and holds a 7-4-1 series edge, defaulted matches at number-four and number-six singles, and 7(5-7). Natalie Ilig beat Kathy number-thr e doubles. .. Spray 6-2,6-1 at number-five, 
"We wer'-..:n 2-0 before the and Cathy Bradshaw was match even -began, " said awarded a victory at number­Gelfman, "because Western six in another defaulted match. Michigan relinquished the With the match already in number-four and number-six hand, Gelfman decided to give singles matches due to injur-her reserves some playing time ies." in doubles. Jacqueline Uhll ana 
Freshman CeCe Cahill, cur-Anne Marie Dega teamed up at rently ranked 52nd among Divi-number-ene where they were sion I players in the Volvo1TCA defeated by Garshnek and rankings and third in the Mid-Meyer 0-6,0-•' Maura Weidner west region, defeated Sonya and Patricia O'Byrne filled in Garshnek 6-1,6-0 at number-at number-two, dropping their one singles to extend her record match to Schul ':e and Ken­to 38-10. She easily eclipsed the worthy 3-6,2-6. t\.t number­Notre Dame single-season three doubles, l ~ella and record for most victories in a Bradshaw won by · t another season, previously held by default. Gelfman 110pes that Susie Panther at 34. this match will catapault Notre 
At number-two singles, Mic-Dame to continued success helle Dasso fell to Kathleen next year when the Irish join Meyer 4-6,3-6 . Alice Lohrer the Midwestern Collegiate Con­outscored Stephanie Schulte 6-ference. 2,6-4 at number-three. Fourth-"Moving into next year, we seeded Kim Pacella won by know what we need to do to get default over Jennifer Reault the rankings as a team," says after trailing in the match 6-Gelfman. 
The Observer I Rob Regovich The women's tennis team defeated Western Michigan Wednesday
to finish 12-14 for the spring season. Frank Pastor has the details sMc h0 n0 rs athIetes at banqu e t 
at right. 
By JANE SHEA
Hey Students! 
SMC Sports Editor 
The semester is almost over! Time to start thinking about 
The Saint Mary's varsity ath­
how you are going to get your stuff home., RYDER TRUCK 
letes and coaches were honored 
RENTAL is running a special on all size trucks. Rent a 
last night at the annual sports 
truck, take a couple of friends home with you, and split 
banquet.

the cost. Like to Rock and Roll when you drive home across the country? Several models of our trucks now offer cassette players. Why listen to a static AM radio the 
COPY EARLY
whole way home. It's a long journey, you might as well make it as comfortable as possible. We can guarantee you a 1985 or newer vehicle with an AM-FM radio, power 
COPY LATE 
steering, power brakes. Call the following number for your discounted rate. 219-277-3554 
COPY WEEKENDS 
For copies before work or after hours, depend on Kinko's, the copy center. 
kinko·s· 
• 
Copies • Office Supplies • Convenient Hours 

• 
Binding • Floppy Disks 


18187 State Rd. 23 South Bend, IN (219) 271-0398 
Athlete of the Year went to senior basketball star Tammye Radke whose jersey was retired at the end of the season the first time in Saint Mary's history for this to happen. 
Radke was also named Most Valuable Player and received the Fourth Year Award. 
Coach of the Year was Debra Laverie who coaches the tennis team. The team is heading to the Nationals in May and have a 24-6 record. 
Patty Hatfield received Most Valuable Player for the soccer team. Senior Hatfield and soph­omore Mollie Meehan also were chosen Indiana Choice College Award for their play this season. 
In volleyball, Margaret Feldman was selected as Most Valuable Player. Kim Receski recieved the Coaches Award and Mary MacDiarmid was the Most Improved Athlete. 
Softball pitcher Michelle Pinter was chosen Most Valu­able Player. Laura Sokolowski captured Coaches Award with her versatile skills. Receski also received most Improved Athlete in softball. 
Jennifer Veselik was the swimmers most valuable player. Jeannette O'Neill receiced the same honors on the track team . 

Activities Night August 30, 1988 
The following organizations have registered for a table at the 1988 Activities Night held at Stepan Center. If your organization has not yet registered, please stop by the Student Activities 
., Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline for registering is May 3. 
Adworks•• AIESIC** Aikido club** Air Force ROTC** Alpha Epsilon Delta•• American Lebanese Club** American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics•• American Society of Mechanical Engineers•• American Society of Metals*• Amnesty International Group 43** Anthropology Club** Anti-Apartheid Network** Arnold Air Soceity•• Arts and Letters Business Society•• ASCE-Student Chapter•• Asian Society of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's•• Bacchus•• Bagpipe Band** Balet Folklorica Azul Y Oro•• Baptist Student Union•• Big BrotherS!Big Sisters of Notre Dame•• Black Cultural Arts Council** BCAF** Boxing Club** Center for Basic Learning Skills•• Circle K International** Community of The International Lay Apostolate•• College Democrats•• College Republicans•• Council for Fun and Learning•• Dlsmas House•• Dolphin Club** Dome•• Entrepreneurial Club** Equestrian Club** Fellowship of Christian Athletes•• Flanace Club of Notre Dame du Lac•• FoodShare•• Free Enterprise Club** German Club** Gymnastics Club** Handbell Choir•• Hawaiian Club** Hispanic-American Organization•• lchthus•• Irish Marauder Drill Team•• Italian Club** International Student Organization•• Investment Club .. Japan Club .. Judo Club•• Juggling Club•• Knights of Columbus•• Knights of Immaculata•• League of Black Business Students.. Uturglcal Choir.. MadMacs•• Marketing Club** Math Club•• Men's Volleyball Club** NAACP•• National Society of Black Engineers•• ND Porn Porn Squad** Neighborhood Study Help Program•• New Jersey Club of Notre Dame•• Omicron Delta Epsilon•• Overnight Shelter for The Homeless.. Oversees Development Network** Pax Christi-Notre Dame•• People of Praise Club** Phllliplne Club .. PreProfessional Society•• Progressive Music Club** Project Head Start•• Psychology Club** Raquetball Club** Right to Ufe. Notre Dame-Saint Mary's•• Rugby Football Club (Men)** Scholastic•• Shenanigans•• Ski Team•• Society of Women Engineers.. South Bend Boys Club** Spanish Club•• Spiritual Rock** Squash Club** St. Edward's Hall Players•• Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) .. Student Tutorial Education Program.. Student Union Board** Synchronized Swim Team•• Thomas More Society•• Toastmasters•• Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble•• Volunteers for Northern Indiana State Developmental Center•• Water Polo Club.. Windsurfing Club.. Women United for Justice and Peace•• Women's Caucus•• Women's Track Club.. World Hunger Coalition•• WVFI-AM.. 
page 14 
Streak stands at 20 as O's fall to Twins 
Associated Press ~ control problems, walking 
three, but allowed only one run. 
MINNEAPOLIS -The win­Dan Plesac pitched the last two less Baltimore Orioles tied an innings for his third save. American League record with 
Athletics 5, Blue Jays 3
their 20th straight loss Wednes­day night, falling to the Min­nesota Twins 7-6 when their TORONTO -Don Baylor's two-run rally in the ninth inning run-scoring single snapped a ended as Fred Lynn grounded sixth-inning tie and Dave Hen­out. derson homered as the Oakland 
Baltimore players stood in Athletics defeated the Toronto stunned silence in the eighth in­Blue Jays 5-3 Wednesday night. ning when Kent Hrbek and Tim With the score 2-2, Henderson Laudner broke a 4-4 tie with doubled down the right-field leadoff homers in the eighth line with two outs against against reliever Bill Scherrer, starter Mike Flanagan, 2-1, and 
0-1. A walk, balk and throwing Baylor singled to left '.:o put the error by pitcher Doug Sisk Athletics ahead. added another run, along with Curt Young, 1-0, allowed six insult. hits in six innings. Gene Nelson 
pitched 1 1-3, Eric Plunk one
Royals 3, Yankees 1 
inning, and Rick Honeycutt got 
NEW YORK -Kevin Seitzer the last two outs for his second singled home Kurt Stillwell save. Billy Ripken tosses dirt In disgust, a common sight for the Orioles who are now 0-20. with the tie-breaking run in the 11th inning Wednesday night as Kansas City beat New York 3-1 for the Royals' first victory in Yankee Stadium since 1986. 
Stillwell led off the 11th with 
a walk, moved to second on 
Willie Wilson's sacrifice, and 
scored on Seitzer's single to 
center. 
Angels 4, Tigers 3 
DETROIT-Jack Howell drove in two runs and Willie Fraser survived seven walks as the California Angels beat the Detroit Tigers 4-3 Wednes­day night. 
Howell tripled to score a run in the second and doubled to drive in another in the sixth as the Angels snapped a four­game losing streak. 
Detroit starter Doyle Alexan­
der, 2-2, allowed nine hits while 
walking one and striking out 
six. 

Brewers 4, Rangers 3 .. 
ARLINGTON-Juan Nieves 
allowed seven hits in 7 1-3 in­
nings and Dale Sveum had a 
two-run homer as the Mil­
waukee Brewers beat the 
Texas Rangers 4-3 Wednesday 
night. 

Nieves, 2-2, had first-inning 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 

when they run into the buz­zsaws of varsity players' teams after coming so far in the tour­ney. To me, that's not fair to the layman students. It should be their tournament. 
Again, I'm not trying to come 
down on the varsity basketball 
players, and I'm certainly not 
trying to deny them status as 
students just like everyone 
else. But I wish they'd stick to 
the hardwoods and let every­
one else take it outside. 



Thursday, April 28, 1988 The Observer page 15 


CUSHIN& AUD.  APRIL 27 and 28  
ADMISSION  
~2.~  PLEA~E: NO FOOb otDKIAIK I  B:OD~"lf IO:ODP.-~  

Campus 
Thursday 
9:15-11 a.m.: CLMTD Session VI, Labor in the Post-Transition: Southern Europe. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.: Spring Pottery Sale by artists Bill Kremer, Rick Hintze, Tracy Dippo, and Sek Thim Chee of ND Ceramics Department, today and Friday, O'Shaughnessy Great Hall. 
11:15 a.m.-1 p.m.: CLMTD Session VII, Labor in the Post-Transition: Asia and Latin America. 
12:30 p.m.: GALA-Kellogg Graduate Student Workshop, "Easter and Santa Cruz," a report and slide show by a Notre Dame delegation, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 2:15-3:45 p.m.: CLMTD Session VII, Reflection on the Postwar European Cases in the Light of the Currect Processes of Redemocratization. 4-5:45 p.m.: CLMTD Session IX, Summary and Conclusions. 4 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture, "The Current Reality in El Salvador," a group of faculty and students will report on their Holy Week visit to El Salvador, Room 121 Law School. 4 p.m.: College of Arts and Letters Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series and Program in Critical and Continental Thought Series Lecture, Theme: Her­meneutics and Praxis, "Re-imagining Society and Remaking Politics," by Pro­fessor Roberto Ungre, Harvard Law School, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Shell Model Transition Densities for Inelastic Electron and Pion Scattering," by Professor Anna Hayes, University of Min­nesota, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30p.m.: Army ROTC Spring Academic Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium. 10-11 p.m.: Gays and Lesbians at ND and SMC on WVFI's Campus Perspectives talkshow, hosts Lynsey Strand and Chris Shank will take questions at 239-6400, 
WVFI-AM 640. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Minestrone Soup Clam Rolls Beer Batter Perch Bourbon Baked Ham Chocolate Chip Pancakes French Fries 
Comics 
Bloom County 

Calvin and Hobbes 
Saint Mary's 

Baked Chicken Baked Mostaccoli with Cheese Ground Cheddar Beef with Cheese Deli Bar 

Suddenly, throwing the festivities Into uHer confusion, Ujang begins to play "Stardust." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Fellow 5 Parents 8 "An apple -" t-:-:-+--+--t-t-­
12 Solo 13 Hue 14 Aswan's river 15 VIvid displays 16 Part of A.D. 17 Fete 18 Alas. beast 20 Bills 21 Gloomy 22 Stray 24 Less loyal 28 Heart 
chambers 30 Jal ­31 Building wings 33 Open-
mouthed 37 Road surface 39 Track loser 41 Watery 
swelling 42 Not any: dial. .. 
44 Surrounded by .__......_...L-_.__ 45 Witch of -© 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 04128188 47 Stamping 
All Rights Reserved 
devices 49 Moses' 7 Squirrel often miracle site 8 Turk butter? 
52 Hammett's 9 Actress Rlgg "The­10 Steve or Curse" Woody 
54 Sheltered 11 Ferment 55 Llzardflsh 12 Refuge 61 US army 13 Verboten 
member 19 Seoul's site 62 Splotch 23 Inlets 63 OT prophet 24 Renown 64 Lab burner 25 "When I 65 Knowledge was-" 66 Apparent 26 Alencon 67 Relax 27 Meow maker 68 Prior to 29 Autocrat 69 Mae or Jerry 32 Alphabet run 
34 -blanche 
DOWN (sword) 1 Erato's sister 35 Two 2 Head cover 36 Remnants 3 Before body 38 Odense native 48 Carelessly 57 Peace symbol 
or dote 40 Croesus' 49 Less cooked 58 Employs 4 Dressage empire 50 Uplift 59 Part of CPA: 
maneuver 43 Okla. city 51 Campus VIPs abbr. 5 Mine find 46 Work at 53 Clergyman 60 Cartoons' 6 Pavlova superficially 56 Swan genus Krazy 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
115 1HAT Ot.P 
exPRe5.5tON 60e5: 
"YOf/1? CIIMP!1!6N 15 IN ~Pf/NG WHeJ 71£ COCKf(()ACH 5Prr5 fN 
YOf/A' 5PRr.f. ~ 
~-~ 
~""~ 



~~------------------~-----, 
Sports·
Thursday, April 28, 1988 page 16 
ND track sends eight NCAAhopefuls to Penn Invite Rest of Irish squad heads to Ball State 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer Led by NCAA qualifier Dan  Penn, including senior Tom Mick in the hammer throw, freshman Ryan Mihalko in the javelin, sophomore Glenn Wat­ runners from the East Coast, including Garrett, O'Connor and Markezich (all from New York state).  
Garrett, eight members of the  son in 110-meter high hurdles,  The rest of the Irish track  
Notre Dame track team visit  and freshmen John Cole and  squad will travel to Muncie Sat­ 
Philadelphia tonight to com­pete in the Penn Invitational. The senior captain has  Jeff Smith in the high and long jumps, respectively. Smith needs to add just 17 cen­ urday for the Ball State Invita­tional. Following a week off for ex­ 
already qualified for the NCAA  timeters to his longest jump to  ams,  the  team  will  try  to  
Outdoor Championship in June  qualify for the NCAA's.  qualify more members for the  
in the 5000 meter run, winning  A total of 6500 athletes will  IC4A's at the Illinois Twilight  
that  race  at Stanford with  a  be participating in this three­ Invitational.  Piane  said  that  
school-record time of 13:53.52.  day meet.  those  who  have  already  
At Penn, Garrett has his sights  Though originally scheduled  qualified will compete in differ­ 
on  more than just improving  to  participate  in  the  Drake  ent  events.  Garrett  and  the  
his time.  relays at Des Moines, Iowa, the  other seniors will not make the  
"He has a shot at qualifying  Irish switched to the Penn meet  trip because of graduation.  
for the Olympic trials," said  for  recruiting  and  visibility  The team returns to Philadel­ 
Irish head coach Joe Piane, ex­plaining the strategy for the  purposes. "This is  the  first  time  in  phia May 21 for the IC4A's. In addition to the eight members  
Penn Invitational. "We'll also  several decades we've gone to  participating at the Penn meet,  
be trying to qualify some other  Penn," said Piane. "Tradition­ the  following  athletes  have  
runners for the NCAA's."  ally we've gone to Drake be­ qualified for the IC4A's: Yan  
Heading the list for possible  cause  the IC4A's  are  on  the  Searcy and Rich Culp in the  
NCAA  qualifiers  are  sopho­ East Coast. But this year we  400, Robert Harris in the 200,  
more Mike O'Connor in the 5000  added the meet at the Naval  David ·varth in the 800, Mike  
Van Searcy and Robert Harris, both of whom have already qualified and junior Ron Markezich in  Academy and this one to give  Rogan in the 1500, Rick Mulvey  
for the IC4A's, will be competing along with most the track team the 10,000-meter run. Both have  us more exposure on the East  in the steeplechase, Chris Com­ 
at the Ball State Invitational this weekend. Pete Gegen details that already  qualified  for  the  Coast."  ponovo in the pole vault, Tim  
action, as well as the Penn Invitational where several team members IC4A's, as have the other five  Traditionally  Piane  has  Smith in the discus, and the  
will try to earn NCAA bids, at right. team  members competing at  recruited most of his distance  1600-meter relay team.  
Lacrosse team tops Spartans  
behind McQuillan's 22 saves  
By PETE LaFLEUR  best wins of my career here,  Olmstead  led  the  relentless  
Sports Writer Senior goalie Matt McQuillan had 22 saves as the Notre Dame lacrosse team beat Michigan State 10-7 at Loftus Sports Cen­ter Wednesday. The Irish avenged losses to the Spartans the past two  especially since they beat us the last two years," McNic­holas said. "It hasn't been very often that we've had to prove ourselves in an underdog posi­tion, but it feels great to be on a team that rises to the occa­sion in a key game." Irish head coach Rich  Irish attack with three goals and three assists. Sophomore attack Brian McHugh had a goal and three assists while McNicholas added three goals and an assist. Although the Irish offense continually pressured the Spar­tan defense, McNicholas said  
seasons  and  moved  their  O'Leary said  the  game  was  the offensive attack was made  
record to 11-3. In addition, they took a step closer to the Great Lakes Lacrosse Association  primarily won on emotion. "The team today was the most emotional I've seen them  possible because of the Irish de­fensive effort.  
title, which will be decided Sat­ in a long time," said O'Leary,  "You usually hear about an  
urday when the Irish host Ohio  who is in his eighteenth year  offense putting pressure on a  
State. According to senior tri­captain John McNicholas, the  with the team. "It was not so much intensity as it was pure emotion. The guys never  defense, but our defense really took it to their offense and won the game," McNicholas said.  
victory over Michigan State is particularly satisfying for the departing seniors. "This is obviously one of the  stopped hustling and tl"ey didn't look back the wi. le game." Junior attackman John  "Matty was unbelievable in goal and the defense totally die-see IRISH, page 11  The lacrosse team defeated MichLaFleur has the details at left.  igan State 10-7 Wednesday. Pete  

How to make Bookstore even more fun for all 
For those of you who turned apathetic after your team lost in the first round this year, we just had two really competitive, drama-packed basketball tournaments wind down on campus last weekend. 
And now that the hubbub has died down from what has been a fun-filled and intense Bookstore Basketball XVII, I'd like to throw in my two cents worth on a concept that just might make this Rite of Spring at Notre Dame even more exciting. 
I'd like to see a rule that prohibits varsity bas­ketball players from entering the tournament. 
Now don't think that I'm suggesting this because I have some grand design of taking my team to the championship next year if there aren't any varsity players to thwart us. I don't. 
I'm also not hinting that members of the varsity basketball teams are not members of the student body in their own right. They certainly are. 
But I sincerely think that the majority of the stu­dents on campus would rather see players out of their own number advance on to the latter rounds than the people who were recruited to play for the school and have an opportunity to play against a little better competition than one might normally find at the Rock on a Tuesday night. 
In the last three years of men's competition, Notre Dame varsity big men led their respective teams to the Bookstore championship (Jim Dolan of Lee's BBQ, Donald Royal of Da Brothers of Manhood, and Gary Voce of the newly-crowned Adwork's All­Stars). Numerous other varsity hoopsters, includ­ing Tequila's Chris Nanni, have danced into the Sweet 16 over the past few years. 

Pete Skiko 
Assistant Sports Editor 

This year's women's final featured two teams dominated by graduating Irish varsity standouts Mary Gavin (Yurtles and Turtles) and Sandy Bot­ham (champions Give Me Your Address, There). 
Enough is enough. 

It wouldn't be so bad if the rest of the players on the court could prevent the inevitable from happen­ing, but in the words of this year's Mr. Bookstore Sean Cullinan, "It's just impossible to stop (Voce). No one can play with him when he's going up against 
guys like us." · · 
What fun is that? Tequila White Lightning led 11-7 at halftime last Sunday against Adworks, 
largely because Gary Voce touched the ball about six times on offense and had one point. In the second half, when Adworks was down 16-11, all they did was kick it inside and let the big guy score seven of his team's last ten points. They did it all tourn­ament long. 
We know players like Voce and Gavin and Botham are good at basketball. They've all had great careers playing the sport on Notre Dame's varsity teams. What satisfaction could you get out of leading a team through a draw of comparatively ordinary Joe's and winning a title which should be reserved for, at least in my mind, the best basket­ball team comprised of ordinary Joe's on campus? 
Why not share the limelight with players like Cul­linan, AI Martin, and Ralph Ferrara? Or Kara En­gland, Lauren Romeo, and Laura Gidley? 
These are the players who deserve a chance to prove that they're the best on campus, not the ones who have already shown us that they can do it against other schools. 
One might argue that it's fun to see how you would fare against the varsity athletes, but really good teams like this year's I'll Play, No I Won't and Pop a Shot at Senior Bar must get a feelin~ of futility 
see HOOPS, page 14 





