-----------------------· -­
-------------------------------, 

More white stuff
J ACCENT: Bookworm Heaven Cloudy Tuesday with a 40 per· cent chance of snow in the af­ternoon. High in the 30s. 
IVIEWPOINT: Some advice for Bush 

North Carolina tornadoes kiII 4 
Associated Press 
before the tornadoes struck. Roger Friedenson, a spokes-

RALEIGH, N.C.-Tornadoes man for the Insurance News skipped without warning like a Service in Raleigh, said insur­"big bouncing ball" across ance companies anticipated a North Carolina's capital city possible loss of $30 million in early Monday, smashing North Carolina from the homes and churches before twisters. The 1984 storms heading into rural areas. Four caused $65 million in damage.people were killed and at least Joe Dean, secretary of Crime 151 injured. Control and Public Safety, said 
"I can remember hearing a twisters touched down in 17 big gust of wind like a hur­locations in Wake, Nash, ricane and then I could hear Franklin, Northampton,the wood tearing and I thought Halifax, Dare, Hyde, Pamlico 'Oh God, this is it, I'm gone.' I and Currituck counties. just buried myself under the In neighboring Virginia, one 
bed," said Betty Bell of tornado and high winds downed Raleigh. trees, damaged property and 
The storms brought knocked out power in Isle of reminders of the 24 twisters Wight, Brunswick and Sout­that ripped a 250-mile path hampton counties early Mon­through the state in 1984, killing day, but no injuries were re­44 people, injuring more than ported. 800 and leaving 2,300 homeless. The twisters first struck 
Monday's twisters destroyed around 1 a.m., flattening a mobile homes, damaged Raleigh K-Mart store and four churches, toppled several three-story apartment build­houses onto their sides and ings nearby at the start of a threw power lines onto houses 10-mile path of destruction in and streets, leaving more than northern Wake County.6,500 homes without electricity "We flew over the area and for several hours. Trees were it looked like a big bouncingsnapped several feet from the ball had gone through there," ground along the storm's path. Upchurch said. 
About 500 people were left Three K-Mart employees in homeless in Raleigh, where the the Raleigh store when the tor­storms struck without any ad­nado hit were all later rescued. vance notice, said Mayor One man was trapped in debris Avery Upchurch. The National and had to be pulled out. Weather Service issued no tor­
_see TWISTER, page 7

nado warnings or watches 
300 students greet victorious Irish 
By PETE GEGEN Staff Reporter mass back an hour to 10 p.m. because of the team's arri­
Approximately 300 stu­val. dents braved the cold and The team did not arrive wind Sunday night to greet until 45 minutes later, as the the Notre Dame football team's plane had arrived at team as it returned from Los Michiana Regional Airport Angeles. at 11 p.m. But the crowd con­
Two buses carrying the tinued to build, though the players arrived at the Main weather sent many students Circle at 11:45 p.m. to loud into the warm bus stop shel­cheers and~chants of: "We ter. are number 1'' from the stu­When the buses finally ar­dents. The scene was rived, Michael Stonebreaker 
"',. ... L.--_...)., t)'7 1{\ 

spurrea oy me team ~ ... , -....; was the first to emerge. victory over Southern Cal Many V!~j~~~ were Saturday. surprised by the greeting,"I just wanted to welcome though they all appreciated
the team and congratulate it. them on a tremendous ef­"It really means a lot to fort," said senior John the players," said safety
DeVine. "It's just part of the George Streeter. "It's greatNotre Dame spirit, to salute that, not only did the stu­the team like this." dents go home over break The crowd began to build and get to brag to all their 
around 11 p.m., the time an­friends that 'we're number nounced on signs in dorms 1 ,' but they came back to around campus. Grace Hall the campus and are out here moved its Sunday night to greet us." 

Williams speaks on divestment 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Staff Reporter 
Student Senate, in continuing their efforts to draw up an of­ficial senate position on divest­ment in South Mrica, hosted a speech by Associate Provost Father Oliver Williams last week, on the University's policy of selective divestment. 
According to Williams, the University's selective divest­ment policy stems from the belief that an immediate and complete divestment would hurt the working blacks, who comprise 80% of South Africa's population. 
"The only ones who have suf­fered in two years of divest­ment so far is the poor," said Williams. 
"If companies are willing to be instruments to dismantle apartheid, they should stay there. If not, if they do not sup­port blacks, they should leave and we should divest from them," he said. 
Williams explained that since the black population is so great, they could show their power by work stoppages and 
see DIVEST; page 7 


PLO gives U.S. 48 hours to issue Arafat visa for U.N. 
Associated Press "The United States is impos­and appeal to Washington to UNITED 'NATIONS-If the 
ing some oqstacles that would reconsider. U.S. officials in United States doesn't reverse impede easy access, so we have Washington have said the visa itself in 48 hours and grant PLO to do it somewhere else," he decision is irreversible. 
chief Yasser Arafat a visa so told reporters. Arab League Ambassador he can address the General As­The Arab nations, outraged Clovis Maksoud told a news sembly, the body will convene by the U.S. decision to deny conference that "if.. .in 24, 36 in Geneva to hear him, Arab Arafat a visa, met Monday and or 48 hours at the latest, there nations said Monday. decided that a planned session is no reversal, we will have no 
"We have a message of peace on the Middle East should be option but to go to a countrythat we want to bring to the moved to Geneva, probably in which respects its obligations
General Assembly through December. to the United Nations." Chairman Arafat,'' said Zuhdi Diplomatic sources said the Also Monday, the U.N. com­La bib Terzi, U.N. observer for nations had agreed they would mittee on Relations with the the Palestine Liberation Or­first call on the General Assem­Host Country met to hear com­ganization. bly to condemn the U.S. move plaints from other countries . 
OPEC accord will limit production 
Associated Press The accord, which ended the nounced, futures prices for winter meeting of the Organi­West Texas Intermediate, a 
---,.....,T._T • • ' • r"T"\Vr-. ,..._;1

Vl~r~i~M., ~:.:~~.!'~~-ur..,."" Vll zation of Petroleum Exporting major U.S. brand, jumped as 
"'-··~t..ip"· set an output ceiling high as $15.80 dollars a barr~l,ministers ended nearly two -,. ___
\...,UU1111.1La--, .. 

uo more than $1.80 from 1tsweeks of tense discussions of 18.5 million barrels a u~) :::~ 
• · · --·-.ok on the New
Monday with a formal agree­the 13 OPEC members, well un­close last "'"'"·­ment to limit production and der the 22.5 million that York Mercantile Exchange. pump prices back toward the analysts estimate the cartel is cartel's benchmark of $18 per currently pumping. barrel. The agreement also resolved But prices slipped toward the 
But before the day was out, a key issue in the talks by end of the day after the oil min­one oil minister indicated the giving former combatants Iran ister of the United Arab new quota was not official, and Iraq equal quotas of 2.64 Emirates"said the output level causing prices to back off after million barrels a day. set in the accord was not his a sharp runup. After the agreement was an-official ceiling. 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
Holiday babies have become a habit for Sandy Moore of Indianola, PA. While some people celebrate April Fool's Day by playing pranks, St. Patrick's Day with a toast to the Irish and Thanksgiving with a turkey, Mrs. Moore celebrated all three by having babies. Jason, 9 pounds, 1 ounce, was born on Thanksgiving Day. Amanda, the ol.dest child of Mrs. Moore and her husband, Martin, arrived on April Fool's Day in 1982, and their second child, Jacquelyn, was born on St. Patrick's Day in 1984. -Associated Press 

A Pablo Picasso painting of two circus acrobats sold for 20.9 million pounds ($38.46 million) at auction Monday night, becoming the most expensive 20th century work of art. The buyer was not immediately identified by Christie's auction house, and the seller was an unidentified private owner. The 1905 painting from Picasso's Rose Period called "Acrobat and Young Harlequin" was sold in three-and-a-half minutes, with the bidding starting at 5 million pounds ($9.2 million). 
-Associated Press. 

A $30,000 grant was presented to Purdue Univesity's School of Veterinary Medicine by the Pew Charitable Trusts to help prepare veterinarians for the 21st century. The other 26 U.S. veterinary schools received similar grants which are part of the Pew National Veterinary Education Program at Duke University's Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs. The five-year, $5.5 million education program was formed as part of larger project to strengthen all health professions and examine changes in the health fields in the United States and Canada. -The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
Seniors are invited to join fellow classmates today at 
6 p.m. at Macri's. -The Observer 
Senior Christmas Formal tickets are still available 
at the Senior Class Office. -The Ob.server 
The JPW mass Committee needs people to design a cover for the mass program, to write a special communion prayer for our parents, and to compose an idea for our tribute song during communion. Please come to the Sorin Room in LaFortune today at 5:30 pm for a short informa­tional meeting. For more information call James Brandt at 283-3265. -The Observer 
Annual UNICEF card and gift sale sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame & St. Mary's, Monday through Friday, Nov. 28-Dec. 2, and Dec. 5-9, 9:30a.m.-4:30p.m. in the lobby of the Hesburgh Memorial Library. -The Ob­server 
A networking workshop will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge by Dell Lucas, career counselor for Career and Placement Services. Lucas will explore proven methods to make contacts and locate pro­fessional job opportunities. Students of all majors and classes are invited to attend. This presentation will be repeated tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. -The Observer 
Visiting filmmakers Dan Curry and Kim Loughlin will be present at the screening of their film, "Southwes­tern Ballet'' to discuss the film and answer questions today at 9 p.m. in the Snite Museum. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. 
Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 

Oeoign Editor .......... David Roth Sport• Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey 
Deaign Auutanl ............. Janice O'Leary Viewpoint LaJiout ...... Alison Cocks 
T~pe•etlerl.......................... Tim Kiefer Accent Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . Trisha Chambers 
............................................. Mike Kolar Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike fte!lll" 
Newa Editor.... . ~Ui"O M::!~:; .~::::cut ~esiun.P.9' :nnette Rowl;;d 
Copy Editor •................. Christine Wal•h 
7yput ....~... : .. ::::::··:· ... Will Zamer NO Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski 
ne 011eerter (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina cum and vacation periods. ne ~er is published by the students of the Univmity of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscnpt1ons may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina TIM ~er. P.O. Box Q, Notte 
Dame, Indiana 46556. ne 011eerter is a member of ne Allodaleil Pre.. All reproduction riahts arc raerved. 

f I • ' '' I • ' ~ L • ,J • 
~., .J ~ 

Ill• 4f"'·',}l..!f."\ ...• •••. J . ..W..l , •• ,. • 


Being teased is part of being the youngest child 
For all my life, I have heard one person after -=,..,..-----------------­another who is the oldest child in his or her Steve family complain about younger brothers and M sisters, who continually find a way to annoy egargeetheir older siblings. 
Well, as the youngest of four children in my . . . 
family, I must disagree with the claims that •A=s=s~•=st=a=n~t~S~p~o~rt~s=E~d=:l=;to:r=;~~~~~~
the oldest kids had it hardest. I do get along r well with all my brothers and sisters now, but I also have long not-so-pleasant memories of things that happened back wh~n we all were not quite so mature. 
1-~---..-J Sure, the youngest kids may be treated better by their parents than the older kids in the fam­ily. But they also have to deal with their share of hardships. 
For example, I remember spending several years living in the same room as my older bro­ther. I know this situation bothered my brother as much as it upset me. But since my brother was two years older than me, he pretty much had free will in decorating the walls and dic­tating what occurred in the room. 
As a result, my room turned into a shrine devoted to the thing that my brother loved more than anything else--KISS. 
Different posters of this immortal rock and roll band covered the walls. To make matters worse, my brother had the entire KISS record L----------------_. collection. That even included the solo albums I knew, I was receiving a phone call. And you'll 
released simultaneously by all four members never guess who was on the other end of the 
of the band, in a successful attempt to prove line. Yup, I was indeed talking to the poor little that with this band, the parts were just as rich boy himself. wretched as the whole. My brothers had me believing that my entire 
My brother did everything except purchase family knew about the existence of Richie Rich. 
the KISS pinball machine or join the official I had my doubts at first, but after all, hadn't I KISS fan club--affectionately called the KISS just talked to him on the phone?Army. I could imagine just how much fun life would 
I moved into my own room by the time I be hanging around with Richie and all his entered seventh grade, but my brother's KISS friends at Rich Estates. I could walk Dollar the infatuation has left lasting effects on me. As dog, have picnics with Little Lotta and Dot much as I hated this band, I know many of their Polka and even go on some exotic trips to meet songs all too well. Wendy the Witch and Casper the Friendly
For instance, let me write some of the lyrics Ghost. to ''Christine Sixteen,'' a song devoted to a band member's lust for a girl about half his age: "I Before long, however, I realized that my brot­know I usually don't say this to girls your age. hers were really just playing an awful trick on But when I saw you in the schoolyard, I knew, me. I actually had spoken to one of their friends I KNEW, I've got to have you." Excuse me on the phone, and there really was no Richie while I shed a tear. Rich. Time to cancel that fishing trip with 
Of course, this was not the worst thing I had Freckles and Pee Wee. to endure for being the youngest child in my I should have known better. Living in a fairly family. That had to be when my two brothers small town, you think I at least would have run decided to see if I really was that gullible. into Jackie Jokers somewhere if Richie and his 
So they walked up to me and said they were friends actually did exist. But I always had been personal friends of my comic book hero, Richie taught to trust members of my family, even if Rich. According to my brothers, Rich Estates they were my big brothers. was located just a few minutes away from our Richie, if you really are out there somewhere, house. I hope for your sake that you don't have any 
I didn't fall for this at first, but the next thing big brothers. 
.___O_I.Jnlted_w.u_ __.ll,...---BU_Y_O_B_SE_R_V-ER_C_L_A_SS-IF-IE_D_S___, 
Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
-...... 
L. 
Moscow protest 
The Observer 
----41iHf1Jf11j# ..... 
' 

-__ .....-~···""-­
AP Photo 
Several hundred ethnic Armenians listen as an Ar-baijan. The banners reading: "Stop the genocide of menian activist speaks during a demonstration held Armenians in Azerbaijan" are displayed in the back­in a Moscow cemetery protesting violence in Azer-ground. (Related story at right) 
l!JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHID~ r------------~ 
E 5 
BUY 
OBSERVER
I = ~EGS, I = 
CLASSIFIEDS
l-\\CE. ~'1 p.\\ 
G"~ 

•
•
• 
I<ALMOST 21ST) I ~ BIRTHDAY i 
•
= ~ i = 
• 
I \,1
MIKE 

~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnl 
He Wanted to Play in 
...........,--Major Leagues 

Roben Redford 
in The Natural © 1984 Tri-Star Pictures 
R
OBERT REDFORD started college at the University of Colorado on a baseball scholarship. But when he decided on an acting career, he knew there was one place to be, one school where he'd get the best training. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts. 
Since 1884, the American Academy of Dramatic Arts has been training professional actors-actors who have won nominations for 89 Oscars, 60 Tonys and 142 Emmy Awards. Many alumni, including Peter Weller, Kate Jackson, Gary Sandy, Cleavon Little, Christine Ebersole, Stepfanie Kramer and Scott Valentine, came to the Academy after attending traditional colleges for a year or more and then deciding to study acting full-time. The Academy offers a two-year Professional Training Program, an invitational Third Year performing program, and a six-week Summer program. 
If you want to play in the major leagues, come to the American Academy. There's still time to register for our February semester. Call now. 

American Academyof Dramatic Arts 
120 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016 (212) 686-9244 

Happy 21st Birthday, Jim 
From Mom, Dad, Mary, and Ann 
page3 

800 arrested in Armenian protests 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Islamic flags and portraits of Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini were displayed in the streets of the Azerbaijani capital of Baku, and more than 800 people were arrested in ongoing ethnic tension, the official media said Monday. 
In Yerevan, the capital of the neighboring republic of Ar­menia, unofficial sources said Moscow dissident Sergei Grigoryants and another leading Armenian activist were arrested. 
No new outbreaks of violence were reported in the troubled republics, where ethnic vio­lence last week killed at least seven people. A strict curfew remained in effect in Baku, Yerevan, and other cities. Sol­diers and tanks patrolled the streets. 
The government newspaper Izvestia printed an interview with 26-year-old Nemat Panak­hov, said to have led rallies by thousands of protesters on Baku's Lenin Square. 
Izvestia correspondents asked him to explain why ''we saw green flags and portraits of Khomeini on the square." 
Azerbaijanis are predominantly Moslem, and Armenians are predominantly Christian. Both republics bor­der on Iran, and the Soviet Union is concerned about the possibility of Khomeini's fun­damentalist Moslem revolution in Iran spreading across the frontier to Soviet Central Asia. 
Izvestia quoted Panakhov as saying leaders of the protests rejected such appeals to Mos­lem fundamentalism. 
Official Baku radio, in a report monitored in London, said 867 people were arrested in the Azerbaijani capital on Sunday night and Monday mor­ning, and that 18 of them were jailed. 
Quoting a report from the city's military commandant, it said, "illegal actions, measures and dismissals from work without any basis were al­lowed to happen against some people." 
SMC bazaar to feature arts, crafts 
By JOANNA GRILLO Staff Reporter 
The Christmas Bazaar 
received top billing at Saint 
Mary's College weekly Pro­
gramming Board meeting. 
The bazaar will run daily 
December 5-9, 10 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. in the LeMans lobby. 
"The Christmas Bazaar is a 
great success every year . 
There is always a wide variety 
of arts and crafts. It is a great 
opportunity to Christmas shop, 
especially for those who are un­
able to go off campus," said 
Lisa Hill, vice president for stu­
dent affairs. 
According to Hill, dorms, 
classes, and several clubs have 
rented booths and will be sell­
ing an assortment of items. ' 
Also on the agenda was the Chicago Get Away Raffle, which gives away a weekend shopping trip including trans­portation by stretch limosine, fifty dollars, and tickets to The Nutcracker. The drawing is December 2 at 4:30, with win­ners leaving immediately af­terward. Tickets are $1 and will be sold throughout the week in the dining hall and Haggar Col­lege Center. 
SPRING BREAK ~ 89 
Reservations Available Now 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX lrom$149* Sheraton/Holiday Inn/Gulf V1ew 
STEAMBOAT, CQ  lrom$93*  
Shadow Run/Overlook  
DAYTONA BEACH, Fl  lrom $118*  
Texan Motel  
MUSTANG ISLAND, TX  loom $136*  
Port Royal Condos  

HlLTON HEAD ISLAND, SC hom $1 07* Hilton Head Beach Condos 
Don't Wait Until It's Too Late! 
Call Toll Free Today 
1·800·321·5911 

•Dependmg on Break dales & lenglh ot slay 

Tuesday, November 29, 1988
page 4 The Observer 
NCR SAlUTES: TilE WINNERS OF TilE STAKEHOLDER ESSAY COMPEI1'I'ION 


"Progressive companies have begun STAKEHOLDER EssAY CoMPETITION WINNERS 
First Place Peter Donati Etienne Weiss Ozorak 
to think beyond the traditional 

Murray B. Low Cornell University/Oxford Earlham College relationship ofthe firm to society University ofPennsylvania/ Gerhaldt Douglass Elizabeth Parsons 
Wharton School ofBusiness University ofMiami Northeastern University
and have begun to manage all of 

Timothy Duning Bradley Pick 
Second Place
the relationships upon which they Purdue University! Krannert Northwestern University
Ron Gilbert University ofIowa Chris Dyke John D. Powell
depend for survival. Firms that 

University ofFlorida Louisiana Tech University 
NATIONAL WINNERS
don't follow suit may regret their Vanita D'Silva Bruce Rebhan 
Scot Barenblat 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute University of
short-sightedness?' University of Texas/Austin California! Berkeley 
George EllisMark Christel 

University ofMichigan Richard Reid University ofWisconsin Harding University 
Murray B. Low, Winner Brant Enderle 
Scott Evans 
Ohio State University David RoederNCR Stakeholder Essay Colorado State University Mississippi State University
Judith Finestone Kalyanaram Gurumurthy 

Competition Drexel University Gordon Sargent 
Massachusetts Institute of 
University ofKansas
Duane Ford 

Technology! Sloan 
East Texas State Peter K. Schalestock Gregory Heyworth 
Cornell University
Some oftoday's most important ideas are Columbia University Bruce Friedman Harvard Business School Justus Schlichting 
held in trust by the leaders oftomorrow. Yen-Chi Huang Claremont Graduate School 
Eran Gartner 

Stanford University Cornell University Kimberly Schwartz 
Darnell Hunt 
More than 2,500 such leaders, college College ofSt. Benedict 
Marc Greidinger 

Georgetown University
students from all over the country, recently University ofMaryland John Schwerin 
James Mahon, Jr. 
Christian Brothers College 
William Hammer 

competed in an NCR-sponsored essay University of Northwestern University Scott Shafer 
California! Berkeley University of Cincinnati
competition. The topic: "Creating Value Amy Montgomery Philip Hutcheson 
David Lipscomb College Brian Shaffer University ofMichigan
For Stakeholders In Corporations University of
Thomas Irwin 

STATE WINNERS California! Berkeley 
And/Or Not-For-Profit Organizations." Hawaii Pacific College 
Kathryn Adam Angela Sizemore John Jacobs 
At stake: $300,000 in awards. And at University ofMinnesota North Carolina State University ofSouth Carolina 
Sumy Ahn Julia Snell 
even greater stake: a chance to affect the Northwestern University Scott Johnston Auburn UniversityBrown University
way the world does business. Ajay Ahuja Michael Solka 
Stephanie Jordan 

University of Idaho/Moscow 
University ofAppalachian State University
NCR is proud to salute the first prize Bruce Alexander Andrew Scott Keating PennsylvaniaI Wharton 
Middlebury College 
Lisa Stamm 
winner, Murray B. Low ofThe Wharton Robert Asseln Dartmouth College Northern Kentucky University Sonya Kelly
Yale University
School, The University ofPennsylvania; University of Nebraska Michael Strong 
Steve Atkins Monterey Institute of
Charlotte Klaus 

and the second prize winner, Ron Gilbert University ofAlaska International Studies University of Denver
ofThe University ofIowa. NCR also Thomas Austin Ashu Suri 
Gail Koren

University ofWisconsin/Stout Princeton University
Kent State University 
congratulates the 98 national and state 

Jack Ballentine Brent Taliaferro 
Michael Kuhn 

University ofGeorgia Oklahoma State University
award winners, as well as their schools. Washington University
John Banko Dianne Todd Their names are listed below. University ofFlorida Lawrence Kupers Northwestern University
U.C.L.A.

Fred Bentsen Jay Tompt
David Lambert 

Our sincere thanks to all who entered the Rice University Monterey Institute of
University ofFlorida International Studies 

Michael Blach 
competition. Their ideas promise a bright 
James LaPrath 

California Polytechnic Hilary Turner 
Montana State University

future-for themselves, andfor business State/San Luis Obispo University of Susan Bodenheim Signe Larkin Washington! Seattle 
the world over. Northern Arizona University 
Miami University Curt Walker George Bohan 
Leonard T. Lee Purdue University Cornell University
Case Western Reserve University Joji Watanabe Mark Caligaris 
Mark Lofstrom University of Virginia Columbia University
University of Gary Wiggin Pennsylvania! Wharton Gary MacDonald Georgia State University University ofMichigan
Marinilka Barros Carrero Robert Williams lnteramerican University Charles Marquette, Jr. Harvard Business School Louisiana State University 
Nikki Chong Linda Gail Williamson Univmilyoj Douglas McMahon Carnegie-Mellon University Pennsylvania/Wharton University of Virginia 
Stewart Wilson Suzanne Chung Russell Meier Brigham Young University Northwestern University Rice University 
Mike Windey, Jr. Robin Clair Susan Ann Milne University ofSouth Carolina Kent State University Willamette University 
Gary Winger William Cowie Brian Minney University of Utah University ofCalifornia/ Irvine University ofMaryland 
Barry Wolverton Christopher Cunningham Ernest Ndukwe Millsaps College Kansas State University Michigan State University 
Howard Dewes Matthew O'Nuska, III 
Trinity Bible College University ofNew Mexico 
NCR's Mission: Create Value for Our Stakeholders 


Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
Christmas celebrations cancelled in Bethlehem 
-" 


Associated Press 
BETHLEHEM, occupied West Bank-This Palestinian town where Christ was born has canceled its traditional joyous Christmas celebrations in solidarity with the year-long revolt against Israeli occupa­tion. 
"We don't see any reason to celebrate Christmas," Deputy Mayor Hanna Nasser said 
····~·········································· 
•
• 

To Kirsten-With love­Mom and Dad • 
• 
Happy Birthday, Dee-Dee 

Monday. "We have to show concern for our dead and for our detainees." 
More than 300 Palestinians have been killed and 5,000 ar­rested since the uprising began Dec. 8, 1987, in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Israel captured from Jordan and Egypt in 1967. Eleven Israelis have been slain. 
Associated Pres& Monday for Thursday's launch of space shuttle Atlantis with five military men who repor­
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­tedly will deploy the $500 mil­NASA set an invisible lion Lacrosse satellite to spy on countdown clock in motion the Soviet Union . 

.. 
NASA and the Pentagon say the flight and its cargo are top­secret, but reports have circ­ulated widely about the satel­lite, and even the Soviet Union has discussed the mission through its news agency, Tass. 
The weather could be a prob­lem on launch day. A prelimi­nary forecast for Thursday called for overcast skies, brisk winds and isolated rainshowers-unfavorable con­ditions that would prevent NASA from giving the go­ahead for liftoff. 
The astronauts flew here Monday afternoon from their training base in Houston and their commander, Navy Cmdr. Robert Gibson, told reporters, "We're ready to go. The crew is excited about the mission, and we're anxious to be under way." He said he hoped for goo.d weather on 
l'h,,...,,.. ,., 
A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY 
EDUCATION FOR THE 
REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicy emphasis. 
Special fields: International relations, Interamerican rela­tions, international business, comparative development, economics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and the Mid­dle East. 
Fellowships and other finan­
cial aid available. Apply by January 15. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STIJDIES UNNERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL...GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4173 




The stress of solving equations that run from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking the elusive quark. And of analyzing the strains placed on your average suspension bridge on a windy day. 
To all of you who must move moun­tains ofdata we offer the Macintosh11) II com­puter. Owning one is comparable to having a personal workstation or powerful main­frame sitting on your desk~ 
It has a clock speed of 15.7 MHz. And 
a 68881 math co-processor. Its memory expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open-with six NuBusTM slots for communications, video boards and MS-DOS co-processing. 
All of which is good reason to do one simple thing the next time an assignment has you stressed out: Plug one in. 

II) 

The power to be your best~ 
© /9&{ A{J{J/e Cmnfmll!r. Inc. Apple. lbe Apple lop,o and MacinlrA~b are Yl'f.!.i.'tered /r(l(/emarks rf. and ·n:Je pour!r lobeyour he:.{ ;.,·a trademark ofApple Compull!r. Inc. ,\iiHIL\' is rtlmdemark rf7i!.m,·lnstromm!( Inc. ,ll\'1Jfl\' is a rr.'f.!,i.'ilt'n!d lrrltlemark qfMicmw!ft Corporation
. 

Contputer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

--------~----------­
Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS, WHo•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 
DENNYS, "\12 MILE N1Jfltli OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS OFFERING A"I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" T-SHIRT GIVE P.WAY. 
Kentucky NOW chapter names second male president in nation 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.-Jim Newlin says some men are shocked when they learn he is the president of the Kentucky National Organization for Wo­men, but women tend to take it in stride because they "don't keep score the way men do." 
Divest 
continued from page 1 
boycotts. In addition, Williams denied allegations made by Professor Peter W alshe in a recent issue of Common Sense that efforts to establish a post-apartheid center on a major university are supported by Shell Oil or Pagan International. Williams presented a letter addressed to Common Sense 
_,....,,.,.....,,.,.....,~..,.~.-..~.-......,,.,.....,,.,.....,~....,~.-..~.-..~ _L---~~~=------1 "To o,ur knowledge, all people 
"Most men that I know either don't know how to handle it or, I would say, some are envious and confused .... Some will just say: 'Oh, he's president, con­gratulations,' based strictly on the fact that it's an office. They still don't know what the heck it is." 
Newlin, 56, of Henryville, In-
and written by James Armstrong, the executive director of the Center for Dialogue and Development. The letter refuted Walshe's claims that Pagan Interna­tional influenced Armstrong's views on South Mrica, and denied connections between a post-apartheid center and Shell or Pagan. 
"Walshe's statement: 'Notre Dame is cooperating with a Shell campaign to take pres­sure off South Africa and to es­tablish an Institute for the 

FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO OENNYS WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 

d., was elected president in Oc­tober. He is the second man to serve as president of a state chapter of NOW, joining lawyer John Katz, who heads what is called the 51st state chapter in Washington, D.C. 
Newlin, an administrative assistant for a large Louisville firm, joined NOW in 1985. 
Study of Post-Apartheid Prob­lems' is, to put it bluntly, a lie," wrote Armstrong. 
Armstrong claimed that his group has received no money from corporations, and asked for an apology from Walshe. 
In this week's meeting, the senate listened to Pete Morgan, spokesperson for a group of stu­dents angered by the Bush lec­ture ticket controversy. The students are circulating a petition to make the Adminis­tration prevent what they call "the manipulation of the uni­versity's name." 
The s~~ate voted to _support
the petltlon, and sa1d they
would specify next week how Zepnanie Mothopeng (left), president of the Pan Africanist Congress, the administration might avoid walks hand in hand with his wife Urbania in Soweto, South Africa after similar incidents in the future. a news conference, Monday, upon his release from prison Saturday. 
The petition will be presented Mothopeng was released on medical and humanitarian grounds after to University President Ed-serving a sentence of more than ten years. 
ward Malloy later this week. 
T • t
wIs e r 
continued from page 1

F I E 51~ 
W L 
"I went to the back of the store and saw I couldn't make it," said K-M:art employee Mic­helle Jones. "I got to the toys 
B0 
and hid." Complete Travel Package Bricks, cinder blocks and 
1. 98 Includes roundtrip air; twisted steel girders lay in a $61 hotel. rentalcarand heap with racks of clothing and 
per person more. See details in other merchandise. q~a> xruoonq large ad elsewhere in 
Fir~gepartments had _crews
:u-.· :::;. G~yjr:J. this issue. Gometickecnotincludect. 
out combing through damaged homes and apartments in
Premier PasSports 
search of other victims. World Champion Los Angeles Lakers However, said Raleigh City Manager Dempsey Benton: 
The Official Travel Agency of the 
Freed prisoner 
AP Photo 
have been accounted for." 
Of 132 houses damaged, a third were destroyed, he said. 
The Salvation Army in Wake County coordinated donations of blankets and clothing for four temporary shelters set up for people left homeless. 

Authorities first said six people had been killed. They later said one of the deaths turned out to be unrelated to the storm. The toll was revised downward a second time, to four, after a second check of Wake County hospitals, the State Emergency Response Team said in a news release. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 29, 1988
page 8 
Bush must reassess P.O. Box Q 
foreign policy World Hunger pay for such an insignificant addition to our campus. I mean it's not like we Over the last forty years, American iron-fisted, right-wing tyrants. Leaders thanks supporters have hundreds of alumni who wouldn't 
foreign policy has evolved slowly, often giving the impression that the United States is unwilling to abandon in­grained beliefs and unsuccessful strat­egy. As the reins of political power are about to be passed in Washington, the new administration would be wise to place foreign affairs high on the priority list for reassessment and con­structive change. I believe that this ini­tiative should be focused on three key areas. 
Thomas Beany 
guest column 

First, it should reach for a new level of cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union. Political developments in Moscow have paved the way for more reasonable dialogue in arms reduction, human rights, and open trade. During the past thirty years the adversarial position that both have maintained has sapped precious re­sources and kept a sword of nuclear death hanging like a spectre over the world's head. While the U.S. should al­ways maintain a strong posture in dealing with the Soviets, we must also applaud the positive political changes of recent years and realize that Perestroika may be the best chance for 
U.S.-Soviet  cooperation  since  World  
War II.  
Both  our  nations  realize  that  the  

greatest threat to the world's security lies not in our own nuclear capabilities, but in those of many smaller nations, especially in the Middle East, who exist continually on the brink of war. While the United States and the Soviet Union should prudently continue to reduce strategic arms, we should also pool our resources and intelligence to head off nuclear capability for unstable nations. The Middle East is a powder keg to begin with, and its fuse is simply too short to risk leaving nuclear weapons in their hands. 
Secondly, I believe that the United States must overhaul its policy in both Central and South America. The past thirty years have seen the U.S. deliberately subvert governments suspected of leaning away from U.S. influence, and then replace the leader­ship of these emerging nations with like the Shah of Iran, Ferdinand Marcos of the Phillipines, Somoza of Nicaragua, and Pinochet of Chile have all been armed andlor backed by the United States, and each had or has a history of serious human rights viola­tions and misuse of their nation's re­sources. 
To avoid this in the future, we must commit ourselves to assuring the right self -determination for our southern neighbors. If a country should lean away from our ideology, we must not respond with routine military paranoia. Instead, we should provide positive sup­port and let economic opportunity, not imperialistic dominance, convince these emerging nations of the real ad­vantages ·df our system. 
Third, we must realize that we are not an isolated economic power any longer. Rather than enact protectionist legislation, which will almost certainly provoke retaliation in kind, we must welcome economic competition and use it to sharpen ourselves. For example, competition from Japan and Europe has forced American automakers to begin building quality cars, replacing the utter garbage that Detroit has been selling the nation for the past fifteen years. Americans began, to demand autos of quality and dependability (Honda, Toyota, and Volvo to name a few), that we weren't building here. American automakers were forced to improve by this foreign competition. They have done so, and are now enjoy­ing record profits as a result. 
A true world economy will encourage open trade between nations, which in turn can foster interdependence and perhaps even greater prosperity and peace for the world as a whole. The United States should lead the way by not enacting further protective restric­tions and by encouraging the world to do likewise. 
The Bush administration will have much to do when power is passed next January. Although work in the three areas I have described above will not magically prevent future foreign policy headaches, I feel that they are wise di­rections for the United States to head in to promote long term peace and prosperity. 
Thomas Beatty is a senior in the College of Business. 
Dear Editor: 
I wish to express a sincere thanks to all those in the Notre Dame community who made the World Hunger Coalition's Thanksgiving Food Basket Program a success. This includes all who contrib­uted to the dorm masses on Sunday, Nov. 13. Because of your generosity we were able to provide 43 needy families in the South Bend area with the fixings for a Thanksgiving meal and some basic staples. 
Just as vital were the numerous stu­dents who sacrificed their time and energies into organizing the program, buying the food, and helping to dis­tribute the baskets to individual homes. 
Thanks again for your assistance in making this the largest, most success­ful program to date. 
Ron Burkhart President World Hunger Coalition Nov. 28, 1988 
Campus needs sewer system 
Dear Editor: 
The New York Times Dictionary defines a sewer as "an underground pipe or drain for water and wastes." As we all know, sewer drains are nor­mally placed in positions where water usually collects, like at the bottom of hills or on a sidewalk that is not flat but concave. 
I have not seen many sewers at Notre Dame. I'm not sure, maybe I haven't looked hard enough, but they just don't seem to be around. Sewers would be nice at Notre Dame. If you haven't noticed, it tends to rain every so often here. After these little sprinkles, our campus seems to transform into one giant puddle. After this weekend's latest sun shower, I started wondering why Notre Dame doesn't have an effec­tive sewer system. 
First, I thought sewers might be in violation of Indiana state law. Indiana is not exactly a mecca of technological advancement and could still be reject­ing sewers as "dang blasted useless." My second hypothesis is that a sewer system costs too much money. Maybe the school just doesn't have the cash to 

give their right arm to have a sewer 
named after them. The thi-rd and most 
likely reason is that the administration 
feels there is nothing wrong with the 
present system. I could be wrong, but 
how many of the top administration of­
ficials have to walk through the quads 
to get to work? Since they don't have 
to swim North or South swamp 
everyday, they can conveniently con­
tinue to avoid recognizing the problem. 
But wait a minute, maybe the puddles aren't so bad after all. Think about it. First, whenever it rains, the crew team can forget running two miles to the river and just jog over the the lakes between B.P. and Cavanaugh. No prob­lem. Secondly, the puddles give Gun­nery Sgt. Kinney, U.S.M.C., a new mess for his marines to crawl in. That alone is worth the trouble. Lastly, I don't know about you, but I just love wading through Lake Cavanaugh. The lake is so beautiful now, I just cannot wait until it freezes and we can all go skating. 
After writing this, I have come to the conclusion that the disadvantages and benefits of our present sewer system, or lack thereof, are about the same. As much as I hate walking in wet, squeaky shoes, I love navigating a course through campus. I guess I am caught in a Catch-22. There are two possible solutions to my problem. First, maybe we will get a Notre Dame-administra­tion that cares about what its students think. Second, maybe it will stop raining in South Bend. I am not sure which is more likely to happen. Either way, my dreams of dry shoes will remain all wet. 
James Reidy 
Keenan Hall 
Nov. 28,1988 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reaching print. 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief.. . ....................... Chris Murphy Business Manager ............................ John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor.... . . .. ... . ........ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor............. . ................. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager . . . . . . . ....... Unda Goldschmidt News Editor........ ............... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager . .................. Bernadene Shins 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor... . ..... Man Slaughter Systems Manager . . . .. . . . . . . . . . ....... Mark RidgewayNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor.. . . . . . . ... Marty Strasen Controller . .................................... Todd Hardiman the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor......... . ............................ Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager . ...................... Marga Bruns possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor...... . ..................... Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
---------~-~--~-~-~------~--~ ---~-------~----......_. 

REGIS COCCIA accent writer 
H 
ow could anyone think books could be rare~ in a library, especially one as large as the Hesburgh Library, which houses more than 1.8 million volumes? That's easy if you're Laura Fuderer, librarian for the Rare Books Collection in the Hesburgh Library's Department of Special Collections. She specializes in rare and valuable books and sees they get a good home in the University's collection. 
The Rare Books Collection, located on the library concourse, is one of the library's largest and houses some of the oldest and most valuable books in the world, Fuderer said. "I think it may be 30,000 books, give or take 10,000. That's just an estimate. It's a little hard to tell." The collection contains things old and new, from Medieval and Renaissance manuscripts to autographed copies of 20th century books. 
The items in the rare books collection span more than 2,000 years and range from huge (a leather-bound volume of Dante's Divine Comedy weighs more than 40 pounds) to miniature (a biography of former U.S. President Calvin Coolidge measures just one by one-and-a-half inches). One of the oldest items is a Babylonian cuneiform clay tablet dating back to 605 B.C. 

Other books and and manuscripts are in the original hand of the authors, Fuderer said. She declined to discuss exact numbers, but said some of the books in the collection are worth thousands of dollars. 
How does one acquire rare books? "Most of the collections are acquired through time. Some things in the library were added from the begin­ning," Fuderer said, adding that many books have been in the collection since Father Edward Sorin founded the University in 1842. "I don't know if Father Sorin brought some of them over with him. Some are discovered, and lots of things are left through gifts." 
Hundreds of books, autographed by authors such as Carl Sagan and Elie Wiesel, have been donated to the collection by Father Theodore Hesburgh, the former University president for whom the massive library was named in 1987. Hesburgh, who masterminded the erection of the library in 1963, gives the books to the department as he receives them, Fuderer said. 
However the books become part of the rare books collection, they're in good hands --or no hands at all. The department keeps all the collection in a specially controlled environment to preserve books and manuscripts that may date to before the time of Christ. Books survive best in an atmosphere of 65 degrees with about 45 percent humidity and as little exposure to light and dust as possible, Fuderer said. Most of the library's rare books are kept in glass cases or, in some cases, in a special vault in the basement. 
Despite the fragility of many rare books in the library, anyone can use them for research or reading, usually under supervision by Rare Books personnel, Fuderer said. Unlike other library books, however, none of the rare books are permitted to circulate, that is, leave the library. The Department of Special Collections rarely gets traffic from Notre Dame students, but faculty and research scholars from around the world often write or phone the department for information, Fuderer said. 
Fuderer, a career librarian who has worked at the Hesburgh Library for six years, has been Rare Books librarian since July. "I love it. It's really the frosting on the cake of the library world. It involves the range of library activities, from acquisitions and cataloguing to organizing (the book collection) and promoting its use." 
Need any information from way back when? Other collections in the department range from American literature to sports research. Best of all, however, the collections are open to anyone who wants to see them, including the rarest books in the bunch. "It's probably one of the best kept secrets," she added. 
"Empty Nest" Is Just That 
W
hen the creators of "The 
episode of "The Three let-downs. The show does Golden Girls" unveiled Stooges." Cuarlie is "Too have the advantage of an ex­their innovative new show JOE BUCOLO Close for Comfort's" Monroe cellent time slot, which ac­several years ago, the Ameri­all over again. counts for its respectable can public received the lov­ratings; however, viewers able girls with open arms. To Be Continued ... There is one redeeming deserve better. The humor Just the thought of four ma­quality the show possesses and sparkle of a good sit-com ture women living together and that is the guest appear­have definitely flown the coop makes one snicker, which is bickers with Barbara (Kristy replies, "I'm combining the ances by the Golden Girls. and left this nest empty. one reason the show McNichol), who is a cop with two." The fact that the show Luckily, the Westons live next surpassed even the highest of as much self -control as a relies on Dreyfuss' cutesy door to the girls, which allows Stay Tuned: The verdict is in expectations. runaway train. Rounding out faces makes clear just how for more-than-occasional and ABC's "Roseanne" is 
This year those same the cast are Charlie (David lame the dialogue is. "drop-ins." NBC should have definitely the season's win­creators decided to see if Leisure), the Westons' annoy­The characters on this show extended "The Golden Girls" ner. In fact, it is challenging lightning could strike twice. It ing neighbor; Laverne (Park have as much personality as to an hour-long show; it "The Cosby Show" for TV's can't. The producers of Overall), Harry's nurse; and an eggshell. No pediatrician would have been less painful highest rated series. Aaron "Empty Nest," the "Golden Dreyfuss, the family dog. could get away with the and a lot more entertaining. Spelling Productions is Girls" spinoff, ran out of The problem with the show things Harry does, and working on "Angels '89," a steam and unfortunately laid is that, instead of being fun­Carol's confession of how With a poor premise and revised version of its a lemon, not an egg, in this ny, it is crass and raunchy. much she misses her mother poorer scripts, "Empty Nest" "Charlie's Angels" for the nest. Harry tells the mother of a is as sentimental as an is one of the season's biggest FOX network. 
NBC airs "Empty Nest" on boy who swallowed a ring to Saturdays at 9:30 p.m. right relax: "It'll come out the Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson after "The Golden Girls." other end. In the front door, The show centers around the out the back." The mother family of Harry Weston expresses that she needs the (Richard Mulligan), a ring immediately for a dinner pediatrician. Harry's wife party. Harry's response: 
0 <t died 18 months prior to the "Your function will have to show's first episode, and wait for his function." Harry is coping, in a lame, In another scene, Harry -~~­sit-com way, with the loss. thinks Barbara needs to get 
;}f~l~
Harry has two daughters: some sleep instead of going Carol and Barbara. Carol on a date, but Barbara indi­<Dinah Manoff), a health nut, cates that she has everything ..//%~ is divorced and constantly under control when she 


~-----------~-·-~--~ 
-

r be able I beat 
•'' 
-Rodney Peete 
ABOVE:Tony Rice, dropping deep in the Irish end-zone, throws deep to Raghib "Rock­et" Ismail (left) for a 55 yard pass completion on the first play. 


. ,. 
LEFT: Frank Starns zeros in for one of three sacks on Rodney Peete. 
ABOVE:Jeff Aim chases Rodney Peete out of the pocket in the second quarter. 
BELOW:George Streeter run­ning back his interception of a Rodney Peete pass early in the second quarter. 
.. 
----~---~­
The Observer
page 12

-
NFL playoff picture unclear 
Associated Press 
An NFL official was talking about the kind of matchup that would make this season's Super Bowl an attractive one. 
"I'd like to see one of those new teams like New Orleans or Buffalo," he said. "But I'd like to see someone against them who's been there before~-like the Bears." 
Sunday's action didn't make the picture any clearer, al­though it did seem to make a new Super Bowl champion an almost sure thing for the ninth straight year when Cleveland beat Washington 17-13. That dropped the Redskins' record to 6-7, leaving them ninth in the 

..._. 
NFC and requiring a highly un­likely set of circumstances to make the playoffs. 
While the Bears joined the Bills as the second team to qualify for one of the 10 playoff spots--Chicago's 16-0 win over Green Bay guaranteed it of at least an NFC wild-card spot--it also suffered injuries to defen­sive end Richard Dent and quarterback Mike Tomczak that could force it to take just that wild-card route to the playoffs. 
And another old face moved back into contention: the New York Giants, who looked like they were out of its when they lost Phil Simms in a loss to Philadelphia, upset new-face New Orleans 13-12 Sunday night with Jeff Hostetler and Jeff Rutledge at quarterback. 

Going into the final three weeks of the regular season, 17 of the 28 teams have at least marginal playoff shots. This is how the playoff picture looks, old faces and new: AFC 
Despite its 35-21 loss in Cin­cinnati, an almost predictable letdown following its victory that clinched the East a week ago, Buffalo still controls the conference with its 11-2 record and can clinch the home-field advantage throughout the playoffs by winning its final three with the Bucs, Raiders and Colts. The final one, at In­dianapolis, looks like the toug­hest assignment. 
The Colts, who are 7-6, remained in contention for a wild-card by beating New En­gland, also 7-6, 24-21. The Jets, 6-6-1, are ruarginally alive, al­though they made their mark Sunday by setting an NFL record with 39 first downs in a 38-34 win over Miami. 
Cincinnati, 10-3, leads the Central over Houston, 9-4, and Cleveland, 8-5, with the Oilers and Browns quite likely to both qualify as wild cards. But Houston can win the division by winning its last three at home with 3-11 Pittsburgh and the Bengals, then at Cleveland, al­though that final game may be tough for a team that's 6-0 at home, 3-4 on the road. 
The West almost surely won't 
provide any wild cards, and the 
winner will be decided in a se­
ries of games involving Den­
ver, which took a temporary 
lead at 7-6 by beating the Rams 35-24 pending the outcome of Monday night's game between Seattle and the Raiders, each 6-6. 
NFC 

Philadelphia, one of the "new faces," controls the East at 8-5 by virtue of its two wins over the Giants and Sunday's 31-21 win over Phoenix. 
But 8-5 New York's win over New Orleans may have rejuvenated a team that's been looking for a spark, and the Giants have all three games at home--Phoenix and Kansas City with the Jets, techinically an "away" game, as the closer. 
Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
Shula looks ahead as streak mounts 
Associated Press 

MIAMI --In the wake of a four-game losing streak that has sent the Miami Dolphins into last place in the AFC East, Coach Don Shula said Monday he'll use the final three games to make deci­sions about next year's per­sonnel. 
"The veterans have to work hard to show that they can continue to play this game," Shula said. "The guys that are not regulars, we're going to try to give some an opportunity to play to find out what their contri­bution would be next year." 
Among the players who might see more action, Shula said, are offensive linemen Louis Cheek and Greg Johnson and defensive end Jeff Cross, all rookies. Shula added that veteran de­fensive backs Don McNeal and Bud Brown could also enter the lineup. 
"We just have to continue to work to find out more about our team and how we can make it better," Shula said. "That's what our goal is going to be these last three ball ames." 
The Dolphins, who lost to the New York Jets 38-34 Sun­day, wind up with games against Indianapolis, Cleveland and Pittsburgh. 
Miami, 5-8, remains math­ematically in contention for a wild-card 'playoff berth, but the odds are in­finitesimal. The losing streak is the longest Shula has suffered in his 26 years as a head coach. 
The Dolphins on Monday claimed defensive back Bruce Plummer, waived Saturday by Denver. Offen­sive tackle Mark Dennis, who suffered a season­ending knee injury against the Jets, went on the injured reserve list. 
Place-kicker Fuad Reveiz, who returned to ac­tion Sunday after missing five games because of a strained thigh muscle, is still bothered by the injury and his status for the In­dianapolis game is uncer­tain. 
Wide receiver Mark Duper, who missed part of the Jets game because of a sore left arch, is expected to be healthy by mid-week, Shula said. 
The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
hi ag.  Top ten quote• from the roadtrip to  FRESHMENII FRESHMENII  KRISTEN MCADAMS  
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ACADEMICSUSINESS TYPING 237-1949  WANTED SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books BOB Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Ph# 233-2342 ·········································· OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.  BUFFALO CAISTMAS BUS-Sign.up in LaFortune Lobby on Nov. 29 lrom 5:30 to 7:30. $60. Questions? Call Peter {x1508) or Kim {x3505). Thankyou St. Jude  and back 1 O.We're not stopping 'til we get there I 9.is this the car key? B. Hey guys, we won the scramblel 7.1 need this for my Kris Kringle. 6.Bo Shoemaker and Barry McFadden? 5.Can we do a pitstop? 4.Are we still in Texas? 3.ZZZZZI 2.0nly 18 hours to golt.Surprise... i'm home! Thanx for the fun, GMC  ljiRESHMENI! TONIGHT AT THEODORt'S SEE HOW FAR SOME MEMBERS OF THE FRESHMAN CLASS WILL GOII IT'S DARE NIGHT AT 9:00 AT THEODORE'S! COME CHEER ON YOUR FRIENDS AND CATCH SOME OF THE ACTIONII  HAPPY BIRTMDAY YOU BAND GODDESS I! YOU ARE TRULY THE MOST POPULAR GIRL IN 823 P.E. EN­JOY YOUR FAME!! LOVE, THE WEDGY SISTERS GUH!!  
...  EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Yogi's Yogurt, Now delivering COLOMBO YOGURT Mon. Tues. Thurs noght 7:D0-9:30 277-4337. LOST/FOUND I lost a gold pulsar watch last Friday.The band on it IS busted,so it you found it don't put it on. Instead, please call Shifty at 1588 Otherw1se I will have my room­mate Paul beat you up. Reward offered tor the Iinder. REWARD to the person returning my 89 class nng lett "' the Loltus mens locker room. It has MJM on the inside. Cali Matt at 289-4315. LOST: An 18", 14K gold chain. Lost sometime before ooon on Tues., Novem­ber 15. it IS d1amond cut on one side, hering bone on the other. Please call Leslie at 2812. LOST: ONE ILLINOIS DRIVER'S LICENSE. TME PERSON WHO FOUND IT CALLED MY ROOMMATE. PLEASE CALL AGAIN-I NEED SOME IDENTIFI· CATION II 2881 KEVIN SSSS REWARD I lost a small brown zip­per bag with my keys and ID in rt. The ID is behind the llap in the key chain· Keep the money, I desperately need the 10, keys and bag. I will do anything to get them back I Well. almost anything ... Cali LIZ X2779 LOST lo•t LOST Blue BASF Mac1ntosh Disk lnotialized: Chnstopher Waner I HAVE A MAJOR PAPER DUE AND IT IS ON THAT DISK. The disk has Management Disk on the label Call x2017 if you find rt. 1 pair car keys found near Brownson Han-Dome. Cali 283-~148 to ID them. FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO. AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES­TER. 287-6389 OR 683-8889. FURNISHED ROOMS,SECURITY SYS­TEM ALSO 2 BEDROOM HOME.BOTH WALK TO CAMPUS.272-e30e  Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrtea, All lfeld•. Free Into. Wrtte IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04-CoroNI Del Mar, CA 92625 FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR 2ND SEMESTER. PRIVATE ROOM IN LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE. WALK TO NO. 255-5852 EVENINGS FOR DETAILS. Aide Needed to Columbus OhAJS.U. Dec 2-4. Kevin x1631 FOR SALE AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE SOUTH­BEND TO WASHIGTON D.C. OR RALEIGH DURHAM ROUND TRIP $230 or BEST OFFER CALL MAACELINA 283-3294 1979 TOYOTA CELICA GT, 2 door,69000 miles, AC, Excellem condi­tion. Ca II Aajesh at 239-5791/.!72-6145. 79 BUICK SKYHAWK.LOW MILE,CLEAN LOADED.272~306 ································································ TICKETS I need one {only onei) ticket for USC.$$$$ call Molly 4544. PERSONALS N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A .. CA 90037.213-741­1338. UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277~889 ONLY A GRINCH ... would dare miss the Senior Christmas dance on Dec. 2. Even little Susie Lou Who is going ... MATH TUTOR-234-3878. "John Blaal I• a male alut." -T.C. AUDITIONS for the Feb. 22-25 produc­tion of the musical, "Simon" will be held at Washington Hall on Nov. 29-30 from 6-9:30. Sign up for an audition time beforehand in the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune Questions should be directed to Rob Meffe at II 3660. CLUB 23 The beet •tufted pizza town. Group• welcome. 234-3541  JUNIORS MOVIE NIGHT TUES. NOV. 29 9:30 SENIOR ALUMNI CLUB FEATURING PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES $1 FOOD WILL BE AVAILABLE AT NOMINAL PRICES SO YOU SAY YOU DIDN'T GET THAT DOGBOOK PIX TAKEN? WELL, YOU STILL HAVE A CHANCE TO GET IN THAT FAMOUS BOOK CANDID INDIV. AND GROUP SHOTS ARE BEING ACCEPTED SLIDE UNDER THE CLASS OFFICE OOOR UNTIL NOV. 30 . WITH $.50 FOR EACH PHOTO WE CAN'T PROMISE ALL PHOTOS WILL GO IN EVEN IF YOU GOT A DOGBOOK PHOTO TAKEN, SUBMIT A GROUP CANDID MAKE TME PARENTS PROUD! TO THE BEST ROOMIE WITH THE WILD HAIR HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHAYN!I!I OPTION PRAY TO ST. JUDE OF TO THE SA. FROM 2ND FL. FISCHER, WEARING A CHICAGO BEARS CAP AT THE COMMONS WED. NIGHT THE 16TH. REMEMBER THE TEXAN BLONDE IN RED & BLUE? WAS IT ALL FOOTBALL TALK OR WHAT? REMEM­BER MY NAME LIKE I DO YOURS? AN­SWER ASAP! 0 glorious St. Jude, apostle and martyr, great in virtue and rich in miricles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­sor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse, and from the depth of my heart I humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assis­tance. Help me in my present and urgent petition (petition). In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Amen. Say 3 "Our Fa­ther"'s, 3 "Hail Mary"'s, and 3 "Gioria"'s lor 9 consecutive nights. Your request will be granted by the end of those nine days. Publication must be promised. This novena has never been known to fail. Thank you, St. Jude! SENIORS YOU'RE IN LUCK! X·MAS FORMAL TIX STILL AVAILABLE HURRY, THEY'RE GOING FAST  SENIORS SENIORS TONIGHT MACRI'S 6:00 FOOD SPECIALS (SEE YA THERE) THE SENIOR SKI TRIP IS COMING! (LOOK FOR DETAILS SOON!) TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE LOOP VAN: 10.SEAN IS STROKING THE 54 FOOT WOODY 9.WHEN I WAS THE WELL MASTER ... B.IS THIS THE FUN BUS OR WHAT? 7.THE RIGHTEOUS WAYS OF THE 'LOVE PIT' 6.HAVE YOU SPOTTED IT YET, OR ARE YOU GOING TO GET LOST DOWN THERE? 5.1 FOUND ITI NOW WHAT DO I DO WITH IT? 4.AANDOM FLUFFIES 3. QUICK! FLIP HIM OFF WHILE HIS PAR­ENTS AREN'T LOOKING 2.THE WELL IS FRESH t.LOOPS! TERRI MCQUADE. CARRIE YAUCH, AND ROSEMARY CHAMBERS: And you thought I forgot about you. Hardly II Japan is great but it will never replace your spot in my heart. Miss you--Love Renee For our favorite VOLLEYBALL GODDESS who finally got to party with us. HAPPY 19th II Love the Laughter from Hell, the Smurl, Kermit and the Studette! .......... ········ CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE LD WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY IT'S CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD IN LAFORTUNE•"" CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD DIGGETY DIGGETY BUM BUM BUM BA BUM WISH HER A HAPPY DAY; SHE'S HIT THE BIG ONE-NINE. YES THAT'S OUR BOPPIN' B.P. BUDDY; P-P­PAAAISO, YOU'RE SO FINElli HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MISH--WE LOVE YOUI LOVE, S,K,H,A BP BLITZ: Thanks for the memories, we're proud of you. You're II 1 with us. Jeff, Mike, Dave. Pat. Matt .................................:..··•·····-·······"-·····  DEAR SANDY, Alright, so I'm a little late in typing this, but I didn't forget! HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY! John Gimme anN Gimme an I Gimme an M Gimme an R Gimme an 0 Gimme anD What's that spell? NIMROD! Who's a Nimrod? The LEPEACHAUNI KATHLEEN FLYNN-Here's your per­sonal KATHLEEN FLYNN Did you want me to say more than that? An admirer I WANT A HOTDOG, NO A CHEESEBURGER. I WANT A HAMBURGER, FRENCH FRIES YOU'LL GET NOTHING AND LIKE ITt JOHN AND PAT OWE KATMY AND MOLLY A SPECIAL TREAT AND BOY ARE THEY GOING TO GET THEIR MONEY'S WORTH P.S. Just waff until we get those you guys on the court. We're getting hungry already. MARY IS MUSTY! BOPPY WEARS NO TOPPYI SCRABBLE IS A SEXUAL DYNAMO KC HAS FOUND HER SliOES AND MORElli NO B-BALL AND V-BALL ARE TME REIGNING GODDESSES OF THIS FINE INSTITUTION! But I'm still loot In anonymity In THE OBSERVER II Happy 18 B'Day KIRSTEN!! Love,Meiissa WANTED-CAMPUS REPRESENTA· TIVE Established Tour Operator &eeka local Rep to help promote and sell Spring Break Trips to Cancun, Acapulco and Bahamas. Must be aggressive, per­sonable and work 7-10 hours a week. Earn $3000 plus on average plus Free Trtpl Call (800) 225-3058. BUY ..SELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY 90-250, SELL 125-400. AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE. THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE 800-727-3287. ........................­.............................!........... .  ATTN STACY MARKOII THANKS FOR A WONDERFUL THANKSGIVINGI! YOU WERE A GREAT HOSTESS AND AN AMAZING LOVEAll LOVE, YOUR MYSTERY GUEST JOHN AND PAT SITTING IN A TREE K-1-S-S-1-N-G II FIRST COMES LOVE, THEN COMES MARRIAGE, THEN COMES JAMES SAMUEL IN A BABY CARRIAGEII LOVE, MATCHMAKERS INTERNATIONAL CALL TODAY FOR YOUR DREAM LOVER! HEH CHRIS W {BeHer known a the laughing etock of the campus)ll ARE YOU THIRSTY YET? UNLESS YOU PUBLICLY ADMIT YOUR MALE INADEQUACIES IN BED AND ELSEWHERE, THE BIG SWIG DIES!! EMASCULATION AWAITS YOU SLUG II To the gorgeous gal who offered me a hand with my bags Sunday by the circle: What was I thinking? I'd love some help! vvho are you?? .,. ......... . FOR SALE :coupon for $98 rdtrip ticket chicago-minr>St. paul for Chnstmas break II 4850 ......................................... HAVE YOU TUNED INTO THE HEART AND SOUL OF MICHIANA? WLLJ JAM 910 AM MOTOWN AT ITS BEST .................................. . ............... . DEAR "DEATH"...IF FLIRTING WITH YOU WAS DANGEROUS, I'M GONNA LIVE LIFE ON THE EDGE! I'VE SOLD MY SOUL. COME CLAIM ITI! R.I.P. RESPOND IN PERSONALS ................. TO "A FAIEND"...MY WEEK WENT WELL & BREAK WAS FINE; IF YOU SENT ME THE ROSES, PLEASE GIVE ME A SIGN! M.O. ............................................... I NEED 1 GA TO THE FIESTA BOWLI CALL KRISTIN AFTER 10PM 284-4225 2 DESPERATE PE GALS-L & MB LOOKING TO SCHWA IN THE LOFT! REPLY HERE. -DAN THE MAN MATEO'S SUB SHOP FREE DELIVERY 271-oSUB For Sale--One way plane tiCket from South Bend to Richmond, Va. leaving late afternoon on Thursday. December 15. Cheap price. Call Tim at 283-2091  

,....-------------------~------------~~·---~-----~-----------~---~~--­

Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Irish face Wildcats in opener 
By GREG GUFFEY its season opener to Bowling Muffet McGraw said. "We'll Sports Writer Green last Saturday. try to do well defensively and Bunek will be in the middle get the ball to Heidi and Lisa 
After easily winning its only for Notre Dame against the Kuhns on offense. The two cap­pre-season contest, the Notre Wildcats, flanked by senior tains will take on the leadership Dame women's basketball Lisa Kuhns (9.2 ppg last role." team will open its regular season) and sophomore Krissi Northwestern returns three season tonight at Northwes­Davis (3.5 ppg) at forwards. starters from last year's tern. Sophomores Karen Robinson squad, but point guard Kelly 
The Wildcats and the Irish (7.7 ppg) and Sara Liebscher Cole will probably miss the seemed headed in opposite di­(5.1 ppg) will run the offense game due to a stress fracture. rections last season. Notre at the guard spots. Cole was the second leading ­Dame finished 20-8, while While the Irish will not start scorer on for the Wildcats in Northwestern struggled any freshmen, the starting 1987-88, averaging 13.0 points 
P through the Big Ten and ended lineup will be relatively inex-per game. with an overall 14-13 ledger. perienced. Robinson is playing Senior Carrie Lawless Game time is set for 7:30p.m. her first game at point guard, returns at forward after at Welsh-Ryan Arena in Davis is starting her first scoring 13.7 points per game Evanston. game, and Liebscher started last season. Lawless pulled 
3 fJJays to Ce[ebrate! 
Wecfnescfay 
It's a Lafortune Christmas Party ! Come help us decorate the building and enjoy the Christmas goodies and sweets for everyone. 
%urscfay 
At 9 P.M. SUB brings you a marshmellow roast and carols from all over the world on the Fieldhouse Mall starting after Gary Conrad's first show at Washington Hall. Plus fun and romantic sleigh rides starting at 8 P.M. Catch them in front of Washington Hall. 
:Fricfay 
Catch the Christmas spirit at Theodores. There will be food, music and people from all over the world to celebrate this festive season. Bn ng your friends and take a picture with Santa! Great food. Great Music. Great Dancing. 
Sponsorec£6y 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

The Irish are coming off a few games last season. Add down 5.6 rebounds per game
• 
80-59 victory over the Mexican that inexpereince to the fact and shot .546 from the field. r National team on Nov. 17, a that the first game is on the Other probable starters in­

• 
game in which Notre Dame road and the Irish could have elude center Diane Finnan (1.4shot .550 from the field. Notre a slow start. ppg), sophomore guard Jeanine Dame led the nation in field "I think it will take a little Wasielewski (7.7 ppg) and goal shooting last year with a bit of time at the beginning of freshmen Michele Savage at .532 mark. Northwestern lost the game," second-year coach forward and Nancy Kennelly at 


~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~~=~~~=~guard. 
DARLAH! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY' KIRSTEN 
: 

Seahawks down LA 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE --Dave Krieg threw five touchdown passes as the Seattle Seahawks over­came a devastating series of turnovers to beat the Los An­geles Raiders 35-27 Monday and move into a first-place tie with Denver in the AFC west. 
Krieg's TD passes went to 
: five different receivers --15 LOVE' MELISSA : yards to Steve Largent in the : first quarter; six yards to ~~~=~~~~=~~~~~~~~~=~~~-Brian Blades and 11 to Paul 
,_._____________, Skansi in the second, seven to , Curt Warner for the go-aheadI · -·--. -I points with 11: 17 left in the
I · game; and 20 yards to Louis 
I Clark with 3 : 40 left to clinch it. I The performance overcameI I five turnovers by the 
I Seahawks, three of which wereI turned into touchdowns by the I I Raiders and two more that 
prevented Seattle scores. 
It was one of the more 
memorable games in Monday 
Night Football history before a 
raucous Kingdome crowd of
Turkey Tuesday 
..--------------------4 
62,641 and one of the longest,'nk I lasting 3 hours and 33 minutes.I Free 32 Oz. drl It was marked by a 95-yard with any 14 or 18 inch I kickoff return by the Raiders'I Tim Brown that netted noI Turkey or Turkey Breast Sub order I points; a reversal and re-I reversal by instant replay;I several other controversial 
I DON'T FORGET lOTH INNING SPECIAL I ~~~1~e~:e fi~n~ftf!~hta~~~:~I EVERYDAY AFTER 1OPM 7 INCH SUB I Los Angeles in the first quar­
'

1 
CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25
I
I 
271-0 SUB 

-1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE
1\ 
I ter.
I Seattle, meanwhile, decimated a defense that hadI not yielded an offensive touch­
• down in its last three games as 
I itmovedto7-6andtheRaiders1 dropped to 6-7. 
~---------------~ 
FIESTA BOWL 
COMPLETE TRAVEL PACKAGE See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Mountaineers!
s498 
Your complete travel package includes all of these features: perperson quod 
D Rour :rip airfare from Chicago via Continental Airlines, departing
( 4 people per room) triple. double orsingle Dece, Jer 31 and returning January 3, other dates available ovoiloble on request 
D Delux accommodations at the Ramada Hotel in Tempe, within walkir distance of the stadium. 2 double beds, up to 4 to a room.
PremierPasSports 
D Alamo ental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas, tax, insurance
Oneo/the USA'slore11l051Sports Travel companies The Official TravelAgencyotthe extra. 1 inimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. World Champion LosAngelesLakers 
D Special ~otre Dame gift such as T-shirt, cap or travel bag at our option
J-800•777-3643 For 3shoring.: 48 each: 2 shoring. $598 each: 9ngle. $798. Space is limited at these prices and does NOT mclude Fiesta Bowl Game Ocket thtch may be available ot an extra charge. Similar hotel may be substttuted Standard travel package terms apply 
-

r------------------~-----~-----~--­
---------------, 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
Introducing the new B. M. 0. C.-the big­ever built. Yet with all its sophistication, it gest Macintosh on campus: still has the same point-and-click simplicity The Macintosh· II computer. It's the per­that Macintosh has become famous for. 
_... fect roommate for power hungry students Which means, ofcourse, the Macintosh II who do high speed computing, video pro­and you will be the perfect roommates: cessing, engineering or graphic design. It cooks. And you up. Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II is the fastest, best performing Macintosh The power to be your besf 


Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The ND Women's Track Club is holding practices at 4 p.m. at the Loftus Center. New members are welcome. 
-The Observer 
College bowls and college basketball will be the topics tonight on Speaking of Sports from 10 to 11 p.m. on WVFI-AM 640. Join Greg Guffey and Jamey Rappis by calling 239-6400 with questions and comments. 
lnterhall football equipment return for teams who have not yet done so will take place Wednesday at Gate 9 of the stadium for the following teams: Stanford 6:00, Grace 6:20, Flanner 6:40, Fisher 7:00, Dillon 7:20, Cavanaugh 7:40, Carroll 8:00 and Alumni 8:20. A $5 fee will be charged to anyone who returns equipment after Wednesday. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy. The team competed in the Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta at Chicago Yacht Club during Thanksgiving break. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 8:30 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any ques­tions should be directed to Jay Blount at x2303. -The Ob­server 
NVA will accept late entries for the one-on-one basketball tournament through today at 5 p.m. The first round starts Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce ACC arena. The finals will be at the varsity men's game against In­diana. -The Observer 
FIESTA BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
Includes roundtrip air, 
hotel, rental car and

s498 
more. See details in quod occupancy large ad elsewhere in lour to oroom 
per person 
this issue. Gameticketnatinctuded 

Premier PasSports 
The Official Travel Agency of the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers 
1-800-777-3643 
Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 

When You're 
p 
regnant,Don't Smoker 

The Observer page 15 

Tim Singleton dished out 10 assists In last night's win. 
Ellis 
continued from page 20 
high school). Even with good 
~===========;,...;:..=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=__, athletic ability, you have to 
1.------------L-----------'lead, and the Irish lead never 

fell below that margin. St. Bonaventure did close the gap to 12 points, trailing 55-43 al­most six minutes into the second half. Ellis responded with seven points in the next 48 seconds, and Notre Dame never looked back. 
"I think tonight's game showed some ups and downs," concentrate during every sit­uation, and if you don't you'll get burned. 
"It (fouling out) didn't con­cern me tonight because three of the fouls I got I thought should have been non-calls," continued Ellis, who could recall fouling out only once during his senior year at East St. Louis Lincoln High. "On the other hand, I've still got to be a little more careful." 
Jamere Jackson added 16 points for Notre Dame, while Keith Robinson scored 12. Rocky Llewellyn led St. 
Bonaventure with 17 points. Notre Dame jumped to a 12-0 
said freshman center Keith Tower, who had five points and three rebounds in 15 minutes of action. "The sign of a great team is when times are bad, it can come up with a good spurt. Obviously, they (St. Bonaven­ture) had made a run, and we showed a good sign as we came right back." Notre Dame out­rebounded St. Bonaventure 43­
36. Junior center Scott Paddock led the way with 12 rebounds, while Keith Robinson added six. 
"I don't care who we play the rest of the year, who's going to be stronger inside than Pad­dock, Robinson, Ellis and (Kevin) Ellery?" said St. Bonaventure coach Ron DeCarli. "They really ripped us apart inside. 
"The bottom line is Notre 
Dame is a very athletic team. 
Their shooting ability and un­
believable strength inside 
overpowered us." 
Notre Dame shot 38-of-74 
from the field, including 5-of-9 
from three-point range. 
DeCarli was worried that his team might be intimidated playing at Notre Dame. For the first several minutes of the game, his worst dreams were realized. 

St. Bonaventure's first points came on a pair of Kyle Anglin free throws more than five minutes into the game. By the time Bron Holland scored the first St. Bonaventure field goal, Notre Dame already led 17-2 in a game that was seven minutes old. 
"To my kids' credit, in the first five miutes, we had nine turnovers, and in the next 15 minutes, we turned a 20-point deficit down to 13," said DeCarli. 
St. Bonaventure came back by taking advantage of Notre Dame turnovers and fouls. The Irish turned the ball over 23 times and allowed St. Bonaven­ture to attempt 37 free throws (the Bonnies made 23 of them). 
"I thought if we had a weak­ness, it was that we put them at the line," said Phelps. "You can't give up 36 foul shots. We have no one to blame but our­selves. 
"We had 23 turnovers tonight, and that is what kept the lead from getting way out of control. We tried to push the ball, and we played an uptempo game. When you play quick, there is a tendency to turn the ball over." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 

en 
"'D
IN PREPARATION FOR THE 
m 
MAY, 1989 
):> 0­
r 
CPA EXAMINATION 
en 
-f INFORMATION MEETINGS 
m 
THURSDAY DECEMBER 1, 1988 ~ 7:00P.M. "'D 
::0
ROOM 122 HAYES-HEALY CENTER 0 
m
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
CoLLEGE OF Bu 
need senior Mary Kay Waller to be at her best. 

NCAA 
She leads the Irish in five continued from page 20 categories, block solos and 
block assists (totalling 185), have put in a lot of hard work kills and total attempts (401 out and time and they know this is of 955) and service aces (42). where it counts. This is it." Waller's play has placed her 
The Irish welcome the among the nation's best in chance to play the first-round blocking and made her a strong of the tournament in the candidate for All-American friendly confines of their honors. homecourt, as they have a 10-2 Much of her success this year record at home so far this year has been due to the setting of and a 33-6 record over the last freshman Julie Bremner, who three years. recently claimed all-
To maintain this impressive tournament honors in the play at home, the Irish will Whataburger Thanksgiving In­
=Mtcrosott® Word tor lBM systems. := For afraction of its price. 
Students, faculty, and administrators can now get this powerful word process­
ing program at a very special price.= The academic edition of Word is the same fully functional document process­= ing software that you see on the shelf with asuggested retail price of $450. Word 
has advanced features that speed you through big jobs, shortcut repetitive ones, and organize your documents when you're done. For example, use the function keys to bypass menus and speedkeys to perform complex formatting in seconds. Use style sheets and style-by-example for the ultimate in formatting flexibility. 
Contact your Authorized Microsoft Education Dealer listed below, show your academic identification, and get started using Microsoft Word today! 
= ­
v

= $l2Q.OO 
17 

~ R&D COMPUTERS Mictosott® (616) 471-1605
~ 
vitational. 
Bremner leads the team with 308 digs and a record-setting 1224 assists and has also tallied 103 kills and 111 total blocks thus far. 
Seniors Zanette Bennett and Maureen Shea have also been playing well too, as they have recorded 354 and 269 kills, respectively, this year. But 
Shea was unable to play in the team's last match against Penn State because of a nag­ging knee injury and her pres­ence in the lineup is stili ques­tionable. 
The Irish will also be count­ing on the performances of sop­homores racey Shelton and Amy White, who have come into matches and played well under pressure. 
But more than a single indi­vidual, it will take a team effort to continue the type of play that has earned them victories over lOth-ranked Pacific, 14th­ranked Kentucky and 16th­ranked Arizona. 
"The season begins now," said Lambert. "This is our second season, a season that everyone wants to be in but 
_ only 32 are allowed. We've played some great matches
=this season, but now we have 
a to get ready to play with the 
5Lbest." 

r 
Battle 
continued from page 20 
during one stretch--they could 
not fight through the Irish 
defense to stay close on the 
scoreboard. 
USC moved the ball to the 
Notre Dame 33-yard line on its 
opening drive, but Peete threw 
deep on third down and over­
threw Gary Wellman. A fourth­
down punt pinned the Irish to 
their own 2-yard line for Notre 
Dame's opening drive, but 
quarterback Tony Rice got the 
Irish out of trouble with a play­
action bomb to Raghib Ismail 
that picked up 55 yards on the 
first play. 
"I'd been tinkering with that 
play all week," Holtz said. 
"Tony made a good fake." 
But Notre Dame did not put 
any points on the board until 
its next drive, when Rice ran 
the option to the left side and 
found only free safety Mark 
Carrier there to defend both he 
and Mark Green, the "pitch 
man" on the play. Carrier kept 
his eye on Green while Rice cut 
downfield and dashed 65 yards 
to put the Irish ahead 7-0. 
"I said, 'I'm not going to let this one guy take me down,' " said Rice, who gained 86 yards on 13 carries. "I just beat him to the sideline." 
Notre Dame defensive tackle George Williams hit Aaron Emanuel to force the first Trojan fumble minutes later, grabbing Emanuel as he was switching the ball from one hand to another and setting up Starns' recovery at the South­ern Cal 19-yard line. 
Green then scored off left tackle from two yards out to give the Irish a 14-0 edge late in the first quarter. 
But from there, USC con­trolled everything but the scoreboard and the turnover ratio. Before the Trojans fi-nally scored on Scott Lock­so close and take it away from wood's 1-yard run with 2:241eft you, it hurts. The seniors on in the half, Peete was picked this team never beat Notre off by Irish strong safety Dame and we have to live with George Streeter and USC tail­that for the rest of our lives." back Ricky Ervins fumbled The second half featured deep in Notre Dame territory more Trojan threats and little to Williams. to show for them. USC had 


Things got worse for the first-and-goal at the 4-yard Trojans after their only touch­line, but the stingy Notre Dame down. They again stopped the defense and a Trojan illegal struggling Irish offense and motion penalty forced Quin took possession at their own 40. Rodriguez to kick a 26-yard 
But just when it looked like field goal. USC might cut the Notre Dame lead to 14-10 or even tie the Notre Dame then sealed a game, flanker John Jackson shot at the national title with a 
slipped on a pass route and 
Peete hit Irish cornerback Stan 
Smagala right in the numbers. 
Smagala chugged 64 yards 
down the right sideline for the 
touchdown. 

"My guy faked inside and 
slipped," Smagala explained. 
"Rodney Peete didn't see him. 
I was in a position to play the 
man, but after that the ball hit me right in the chest." 
Starns leveled Peete on Smagala's return and the quar­terback had to be helped off the field. Peete left the Coliseum with his left arm in a sling after the game, and the initial prog­nosis was a mild shoulder sprain. 
"We were so close," Peete said. "To have someone come into your stadium when you're 70-yard drive that ended on Green's one-yard leap into the end zone early in the fourth quarter to make the score 27-10. 
"We just didn't execute at times," said Green, a native of Riverside, Calif. "We weren't able to establish a rhythm at times. But there were times we did--and they were crucial times." 
"I've never seen us play that well on defense," Holtz added. "I'm exhausted, and just un­believably happy for our players...but I've said all along that this game was not for the national championship. The national championship is 
when you  don~t have to play  
anymore.  We  still  have  to  
play."  

The Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 
MUSEUM S H 0 P 
Christmas Sale 
Saturday, December 3, 1988 10 am-4 pm 
20% off for all members of The Friends 10% off to the public 
·handcrafted ornaments· fine art books ·silk scarves· pottery ·T-shirts and sweatshirts including our new Miro sweatshirts •cards-calendars and more 
the perfect place for special gifts 
Home 
continued from page 20 

Brooks was Notre Dame's leading rusher entering the game with 667 yards on 117 carries, but was passed Satur­day by Rice, who gained 86 yards to boost his total to 700 on the season. Watters is the team's leading receiver with 15 catches and ranks fourth in the nation in punt returns. 
But Friday's vote was unan­imous, and a 27-10 Irish victory erased any pre-game doubts about the decision, which was announced to the entire team Friday night. 
"This institution and this team are based on integrity," said strong safety George 
Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
Streeter, one of the seniors at Friday's meeting. "If you don't have rules or don't follow the rules, you have chaos. It takes integrity to be a winner." 
"Being late once in awhile isn't bad, but being late all the time is something different," Grunhard added. "This team is not based on individual goals, and when you break the rules you bring the whole team down a level. 
"They're great athletes and we love them a lot," Grunhard continued. "But you can't give up team goals for individual goals. They've learned their lesson. They'll be there 10 or 15 minutes early at the Fiesta Bowl, I'll guarantee you." 
and be happy with the way everything has gone. Notre
Respect 

Dame is back to stay. We've 
continued from page 20 

always had to prove ourselves for itself. We believe in our­and on top is where we're going selves and that's all that mat­to stay." ters." 
If indeed the critics are still out there, Notre Dame has one r-------------, 
final opportunity to shake them. The Irish try for the school's eighth national cham­pionship since 1936, when the Associated Press began cer­tifying the title, on Jan. 2 when they face 11-0 West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl. 
Only a few pre-season mag­azine polls ranked Notre Dame in the Top 10. Most had Notre Dame somewhere around 15th. 
"Coming into the season, nobody expected us to win ana­tional championship," senior tailback Mark Green said. "I knew we were capable of this. We know that whenever we go out and do what we're capable of doing, we're going to win." 
"After we win the national championship--after we beat West Virginia--then people will believe," Grunhard added. 
Saturday's Game 

Notre Dame  14  6  0  7  27  
Southern Cal  0  7  3  0  10  
Scoring  

NO· Rice 65 run (Ho kick) 
NO· Green 2 run (Ho kick) 
USC· Lockwood 1 run (Rodriguez kick) 

NO· Smagala 64 interception return (kick failed) 
USC· Rodnguez 26·yard field goal 
NO· Green 1 run (Ho kick) 

NO USC First downs 8 21 Rushing aHempts 41 40 Net Yards Rushing 162 131 Net Yards Passing 91 225 Passes comp·aHempted 5·9 23·44 Had intercepted 2 87 Total Net Yards 253 356 Fumbles-lost 2·1 4·2 Penalties-yards 8·52 6-50 Punts-average 8·40.5 6·37.3 Individual Ludera 
RUSHING· Notre Dame: Rice 13-86; Johnson 6-27; Green 17·40; Banks 3·5; Belles 1-1; Southall 1·3: Southern Cal: Emanuel 18·95: Holt 11·56; Lockwood 3·11; Brown 1·2; Ervins 1·(·2); Peete 6·(·31): 
IPASSING· Notre Dame: Rice 5·9·0, 91; Southern Cal: Peete 23·44·2, 225: 

RECEIVING· Notre Dame: D.Brown 2·8: Ismail 1·55; Johnson 1·23; Green 1·5: Southern Cal: AffhoHer 5-62; Jackson 4·48; Green 3·28: Emanuel 2·(·3); Holt 1·23; Wellman 4·46; Galbraith 1·11: Ervins 1·2: J.Brown 1·3; Lockwood 1·5: 
"Then we'll be able to sit back ...__.aw~.!J!&!!I!<!!:...l·93~829=-------_J 


Knights of the Castle Men's Hairstylincw student $8.50 complete 
style 

MINU''tES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-l691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
wood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 
+  University of Notre Dame  t  
•  Foreign Study Programs  :  
:  Attention:  :  
t  ALL STUDENTS GOING TO  t  
:  ANGERS, INNSBRUCK, TOKYO  ••  
t  ACADEMIC YEAR 1989-90  t  
t  APPLICATIONS ARE DUE:  t  
:  DECEMBER 1,1988  :  
:  MEXICO CITY APPLICATIONS  :  
t  DUE  t  
:  DECEMBER 15, 1988  t  
t  420 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING  :  
:  FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAMS  t  
OFFICE  t  
:  239-5882  •  
:  LAST CHANCE TO APPLY!!!  :  

··················­

-------------------------------------------·----------------------~-----------------­
page 17

Tuesday, November 29, 1988 The Observer 
Seniors may purchase Fiesta Bowl tix today 
Special to The Observer 
Fiesta Bowl tickets will go on sale to Notre Dame seniors today at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC beginning at 
1:30 p.m. 
One student will be able to bring four IDs and $35 per ticket to the JACC and fill out ticket applications for four students. 
•· At the time of the pur­chase, however, the students will not be able to pick up the tickets. Students can only pick up the tickets in Phoenix at either the Notre Dame hotel or Sun Devil Stadium and must present their ID in person to receive their ticket. The process will eliminate the purchasing of tickets for non-student use. 
Notre Dame juniors will be able to purchase tickets on Wednesday, Nov. 30; Notre Dame sophomores, graduate students and law students may purchase tick­ets on Thursday, Dec. 1; and tickets for Notre Dame freshmen and all Saint Mary's students will be sold on Friday, Dec. 2. 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS·-----...,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
t Reg. $8 Mast~~~ I -----------I
:s1 oFF sTuDENr-cu-r1 
r Reg. $8 Mast~~~ :
t-------------------1 
I ssoFF ANY PERM I 
I MasterCuts I
I familyhairt:uttersl 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 

family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
NO drops three over break 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
A propensity for getting be­hind early caught up to the Notre Dame hockey team as it dropped three home games over Thanksgiving break. 
The Irish (3-10-2) were swept by ECAC champion and NCAA power Merrimack 3-1 Wednes­day and 4-3 in overtime Friday. Illinois-Chicago rolled to an 8-3 victory over Notre Dame Sat­urday night. 
The Warriors jumped out to a 2-0 lead Wednesday before Kevin Markovitz put the Irish on the scoreboard at 9:25 of the second period. Dave Vater closed out the scoring for Mer­rimack with five minutes and 19 seconds remaining in the contest. 
Merrimack assumed an 
early 2-0 lead again Friday in 
one of the most exciting games 
of the young season. Bobby 
Herber and Mark McClew 
scored for the Irish to knot the 
score at 2-2 just.Over 15 minutes 
into the second stanza. But 
Warrior forward Ben Lebeau eight of the NCAA tournament Chicago. "They were faster _scored at 17: 19 to give Mer-last season before losing to quicker and stronger than w~ ....---------------------~~~~were." Senior center and co-captain 
Happy Birthday, Susanne! 
Brian Montgomery went down ll~t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=~l with a thigh contusion against
Merrimack. His status for 
rimack a 3-2 lead going into the eventual champion Lake Su­second intermission. perior State. 
Michael Curry forced the "We played hard, especially game into overtime with his Wednesday and Friday," said third goal of the season at 15:36 Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We of the third, but Jim Abbott were in position to win both of quashed any Irish upset inten-those games. We outshot them, t.ions by scoring the game-the effort was there, but that's 
• ~ little consolation when you 


lose." 
Illinois-Chicago, currently tied for second in the CCHA, shocked Notre Dame Saturday night. The Flames exploded for an 8-0 lead 6: 38 into the second period on their way to a first­ever road victory over the 
Irish. 
Notre Dame scored the final three goals of the game, but it was a case of two little, too late. Markovitz and senior co­
winner two minutes and 14 captain Matt Hanzel posted seconds into the overtime per-second-period goals for the iod. Irish, and right wing Tim Kuehl 
Notre Dame outshot Mer-added the final tally in the rimack 77-48 over the two game third. series but was unable to con­vert on the majority of its "It was a real mission to 
sc9ring  opportunities.  The  compete  against  them,"  
Warriors  reached  the  final  Schafer  said  of  Illinois­ 
1  

,.._ .-.· 
4 
.¢ ~ 
y,r· 
"Don't worry­be happy!" 
25 is NOT old! 


Friday's game at Michigan­Dearborn is uncertain. 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN Kll A FRIENDSHIR 

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
Piane wins award as NO finishes ninth at NCAAs 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
Honors showered upon the Notre Dame cross country team last week as it placed ninth in the NCAA Champion­ships and head coach Joe Piane was named 1987 NCAA Coach of the Year. 
The varsity team, in a pool 
of the top 22 teams in the 
country, placed ninth, led by 
seniors Dan Garrett and Ron 
Markezich. 
Meanwhile, each coach of the 22 teams cast a vote for the NCAA Division I Coach of the Year for 1987, and Joe Piane, whose team finished seventh in the nation last year, was the winner. 
"It's a real thrill, a real once in a lifetime-type thing," said Piane. "I'm really happy about it, especially because it comes from my pt:t:rs." 

Coach of the Year honors seem endless at this point in time for Piane, as he has won the District IV Coach of the Year title for the last three years. 
"My honors are a real tribute to the kids," said Piane. "These guys were 15th in the district in 1986 and then bounced back to finish seventh in the country last year." 
In the national championship race at Des Moines, Notre Dame finished ninth, its first back-to-hack top 10 finish since 1964-1965. 
Leading the Irish was fifth­
year senior captain Dan Gar­
rett, who finished ninth overall 
with a 29:41 clocking over 
10,000 meters (about 6.2 miles). 
Since there were some individ­
uals who finished higher but did 
not represent a team, Garrett 
finished with a seventh-place 
team score. 

Garrett's finish gained him All-American honors, the second year in a row he has achieved such a feat. 
Senior Ron Markezich was right behind Garrett, finishing eighth in 29:45, good enough to make him an All American as well. 
One runner who came through for the Irish was fifth­year senior Rick Mulvey, who crossed the finish line 55th in 30:49. 
"Mulvey may have had the best race of the bunch," said Piane. "He saved his best race for this one." 
Sophomore Ryan Cahill finished 89th in 31: 25, and junior Tom O'Rourke com­pleted the course in 31:31, good enough for 96th. 
Rounding out the times for the Irish were Mike Drake and Robert Fern, who fm1shed 165th and 183rd, respectively. 
NO a near-unanimous No. 1 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame, fresh from a 27­10 victory over Southern Cali­fornia in their 1-2 shootout, was a near-unanimous choice as the nation's top college football team Monday in the Associated Press' next-to-last regular­season poll. 
The setback dropped South­ern Cal from second place to fifth and cost the Trojans their shot at the national champion­ship. 
Defending national cham­pion Miami, an 18-16 winner highest ranking ever in the AP poll's 53-year history for the Mountaineers, who, like Notre Dame, completed an 11-0 reg­ular season for the first time. 

Notre Dame, which is No. 1 for the fifth consecutive week, received 57 of 60 first-place votes and 1,197 of a possible 1,200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Miami, whose only loss was 31-30 at Notre Dame when the Hurricanes disdained an al-
The other two first-place votes went to West Virginia, which totaled 1,069 points. 
Florida State, which finished second to Miami a year ago but has won 10 straight since an opening-game 31-0 loss to the Hurricanes, trounced Florida 52-17 and climbed from fifth to fourth with 1,013 points, fol­lowed by 10-1 Southern Cal with 946 points. 
Nebraska, 11-1, held onto sixth place with 891 points and Auburn, 10-1, a 15-10 winner over Alabama, remained 
"This team has overcome a lot of adversities," said Piane. "To do this is a tribute to the time they put in and their dedication to the sport." 
Getting to the national cham­pionship meet was not easy, es­pecially since the team lost two of its top five runners to injur­ies for the season--junior Mike O'Connor and sophomore Pat Kearns. 
To get a bid to nationals, Notre Dame had to finish in the top four in the District IV Championships. Notre Dame finished second only behind Wisconsin, who went on to win the entire NCAA meet. 
District IV is probably the most competitive in the country. At the NCAA's, 11 of the 25 All Americans came from District IV. 
Only five teams in the country finished in the top 10 both last year and this year, Notre Dame included. This meant a lot to the squad this year, because of its out-of­nowhere finish last year. 

"It really says something about the program," said junior runner Tom O'Rourke. "We wanted to make sure that everyone knew we weren't a fluke last year. Only 12 teams made it in the tournament two years in a row, and only five made it in the top 10." 
Despite finishing ninth, the 
entire team feels that it could 
have done better. 

"The kids were somewhat 
disappointed when they 
finished," said Piane. 
"They're probably a little hap­
pier today but it's wonderful that they're upset with a top 10 in the country finish. Literally hundreds of colleges would give their left arm to finish in the top 10." 
Now Available 
702 St. Louis St. For more information call 733" 
Laura

734" 801 " 289-6621 919 South Bend Ave. 
most certain tie with 45 seconds seventh with 865 points. 
left and tried a two-pomt con-~~~~~~~~~~:::::::::::::::~~~~:::::::::::::::::~~~---=--:::::::~~:::::~~::::::::::::-::::::::::~ 

Tuesday, November 29, 1988 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 
9 a.m.-5 p.m. University libraries book sale, Hesburgh Memorial Library concourse. 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre film: "Pink Floyd 'The Wall," Annenberg Auditorium 
"7:30p.m. Hesburgh program in public service lecture. Theme: Year of the Child in Family Policy, in the Hesburgh Library 'auditorium 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
8 
p.m. Father Burtchwell discusses Palestine with emphasis on the history and present conditions surrounding the ongoing Palestinian conflict at the Center for Social Concerns. Co­sponsored by Overseas Development Network. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Law School Grill BBQ Spareribs Chili Crispitas Spinach Quiche 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Buzz McFiattop 
'·'.II 11~1 '\ :· -I ; t td'L\t /I .to: li!r"! '' II.· L'l'." Ill iot '.'~I' !l t• !Jidrr.t 'ht•m 11 ,,. :: 'i :ttn,;· 

11e I he mtmhers or The Save the· Gy~o Fnnndalion "Cluld hke to 1ncrease soCiety s awareness 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Shrimp Vegetable Stirfry Mushroom Omlette Deli Bar 
50M6 /3LN;K-t111/KI<ET 
(JVACK 5(1~&/Cf/I.L.Y VfiCWIW~ll H/5 :JHNOZ Ff/T RI&HT Ofi7"QI 
lf!Mf 
nf the senseless slaughter of the~ Innocent 'reatures le5pec&aJJy the bab1esl 
_..?:/"i''"
'\l"'--~~ ~\f\i~ i') m~~ 
G01-l ~-.;.r,'ll"<'n ~~ ll"~ ,-eo-Is in 1-Y1S ko.~ 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 ZsaZsa, e.g. 6 Game of no 
chance 10 Canadian Indian 14 Better than 15 Christmas 
pageant prop 16 Auditorium 11 Quick 18 Served perfectly 
on a court 
19 "Hall.~luja~l I'm 
20 Carnival fun for some 
23 Part 

24 Glider section 25 Speed up 29 Columnist 
Landers 30 Kind of sax 31 Pianist 
Templeton 34 Shapeless forms 
of matter 39 Thoroughly 42 Play a banjo 43 Norman city 44 Discovery's 
agcy. 45 Cry of delight 47 Mickey's creator 49 Near 53 Fruit of the-­55 Diplomatic 
officer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:--:+:+::+.'+::~ -:':+-:-+.::+:~ 
-=::+::=:r::=+:-+=:=-~ -=+'=+:'-+=~ -=::+::;r:~+;.~ 

-


61 Seamstress Betsy 62 Lobster tail, to a diner 63 Orchard 64 Words of relativity 65 Except 66 Bit of burning coal 67 Rusk or Martin 68Winged 69 Rapier's big brother 

DOWN 1 Barbed spear 2 Competent 3 Afrikaner 4 Ended 5 Head lor bed 6 Serape, e.g. 7 Hide the loot 8 Sheltered, at sea 26 Very much 37 In addition 
51 "--luego" 27 Marshal's 38 Highly amuse: 52 Criminal act 9 Up-to-date badge Colloq. 
53 Polliwog, lor one 10 Garden green 28 Bean-curd 40 Surrounded by 54 Present 

11 Fanali ca I product 41 "Till the­Time" 56 Twofold 
12 Avoid 29 Yearning 46 Ukrainian 57 Role for Shirley 
13 Lewis's Gantry 32 Labor leader seaport or MarieWalesa

21 Sub finder 58 Charles or
48 Rellec,tions33 Airline abbr. 
22 Sudden thrust 49 Stinging Lyn~a Bird 35 Barley bristles 
25 Stetsons or 50 "-were the 59 Perpetually shakos 36 Actor Connery days" 60 Dried up 
Berke Breathed 
ITT 111£ lr'IJM£NT, 
11£'5 NOT FEEL-IN& The Far Side Gary Larson UP TO ~MIFF... 
( Mike Muldoon 

Fnr !'Omeday tbe gyro mtght ~t·l·omt extinct and vou wouldn t ~·ant lhat 'l'OUI.:I you~ . 


I--­
Sports
page 20 Tuesday, November 29, 1988 
Irish blitz Trojans in battle of unbeatens 
USC doomed 
NO could be by turnovers underrated 
By MARTY STRASEN • By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Editor Sports Editor LOS ANGELES--Head Coach LOS ANGELES--The team Lou Holtz, who often under­
that was "a year away" is now scores Notre Dame's ac­60 minutes away from the 1988 complishments and can make national championship. even the worst of opponentsUSC quarterback Rodney sound like a serious threat, said 
Peete's pains were the Fiesta Saturday the Irish are under­Bowl's gains, as top-ranked 
rated despite their No. 1 
Notre Dame cashed in on ranking. numerous Southern Cal mis­Many of his players agree. 
takes and toppled the Trojans "We've been underrated all 27-10 Saturday in the Los An­
year and stil1 find a way to geles Coliseum. Notre Dame win," Holtz said after Notre 
finished the regular season ll-0 

Dame's 27-10 victory over USC. and ensured a battle for the na­"I've read articles all year that 
tional championship in the people have sent me, saying we Fiesta Bowl against West Vir­were lucky against this team ginia, also 11-0. 

or against that team. 
The way the Irish defense "Ourfootball team is prettierpressured Peete had to make than I am, but that may be the Heisman Trophy candidate about it," Holtz continued. 

long for the days of measles "We're not pretty all the time, and laryngitis, which slowed but we sure play together as a but did not stop Peete over the team." 

two weeks prior to Saturday. 

Saturday was a prime exam­Notre Dame did far more ple. When the Irish offense was damage in winning its sixth in struggling in the second and a row over the arch-rival third quarters, Notre Dame's Trojans. 
hard-hitting defense came "Aggressiveness, toughness­through with its best effort of -there's no secret to this game," the season and kept the Trojans said Irish defensive end Frank at bay.
Starns, who was in on all three Some oddsmakers had USC 

Irish sacks of Peete, including ,favored by 4 112 points heading two solos. "We blitzed a little into the game. 

bit more than usual because we "We came out winners, and 

The Observer I Michael Moran
felt we had to put more pres­that should silence all the crit­

Tony Rice sprints to a 65-yard first quarter touchdown. 
sure on him (Peete), and we ics," said senior defensive end forced some turnovers. But Frank Starns, who was in there was no secret to it." 

Southern Cal quarterback Rod­There also was no secret to ney Peete's face all afternoon. 
Brooks, Watters sent home after incident
the fall of the Trojans from But many aren't so sure the their dreams of a national title. By MARTY STRASEN critics have had their final say. 

Peete (23-of-44, 225 yards) Sports Editor "repeated irresponsible tardi-· on Friday's incident alone. 
"I think we're the most un­threw two interceptions and ness for team meetings and "The key in that is derrated No. 1 team that's ever USC fumbled four times, losing LOS ANGELES--Notre functions," according to a 'repeated,' " said Holtz, who lived," offensive guard Timtwo of them. Dame head coach Lou Holtz release issued before the game. said the two will play in the Grunhard said. "We were a 4"We didn't handle the blitz and the rest of the top-ranked Brooks and Watters repor­Fiesta Bowl against West Vir­112-point underdog just because today," USC coach Larry Irish decided Friday night to tedly showed up 40 minutes late ginia. "I would have tlone they're at home? USC's a goodSmith said. "We handled it all play Southern Cal shorthanded for a Friday night dinner anything to avoid it. This is a team, but I don't think we've year, but today it was like we Saturday afternoon. meeting after the two went decision agreed upon by gotten our due." 
were playing in a fog." Holtz met with a group of ap­shopping at a mall near the everybody concerned." 
"I'm sure that somebody'sEven when the Trojans con­proximately 10 or 12 seniors-­team headquarters at the New­Brooks and Watters flew out going to find a weakness ortrolled the ball in the second along with juniors Tony Rice port Beach Marriott. They said of Los Angeles at 7:30 Saturday have something to say," seniorand third quarters--outgaining and Tim Grunhard--and they had borrowed a friend's morning. 
safety George Streeter noted.
the Irish 254-7 in total offense decided to send sophomores car and had trouble finding it "But we're ll-0. That speaksTony Brooks and Ricky Wat­afterward. 
see BATILE, page 16 

ters back to Notre Dame on a But Holtz emphasized that see HOME, page 16 
see RESPECT, page 16
Saturday morning flight for the suspension was not based 
Ellis comes off bench
ND makes tournament field 
By MOLLY MAHONEY tage for the first round of the The Irish will face the Nit­
to pace NO in opener
Sports Writer 

tournament. tany Lions once again, as the Doubters, who thought the 36-3 Lions come into the 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Irish to a 92-72 rout of theAlways the bridesmaid, team's two losses in the JACC with more victories Assistant Sports Editor Bonnies in the season opener
never the bride. 

Whataburger Thanksgiving than any other team in the for both teams.
Well, not anymore. After Invitational last weekend tournament this year. 

The Notre Dame basketball "Now everybody knows why,striving for national may have daunted the The Lions, the fifth seed in team led by as many as 21 we recruited LaPhonso Ellis," prominence for eight years, NCAA's enthusiasm for the the Mideast Regional, points in the first half, but 13 said Irish coach Digger Phelps. 
the Notre Dame women's Irish, soon found that there travelled to Notre Dame Irish turnovers later, St. Ellis shot 12-of-17 from thevolleyball team finally was no reason to question earlier this season for the Bonaventure had crawled back field, 3-of-3 from the free throw heard the long-awaited pro­their faith. 

Golden Dome Classic, but into the game by halftime. line and also pulled down 10posal: a bid to the NCAA The Irish fell to fifth­they did not take on the Irish. 
Enter LaPhonso. rebounds before fouling outtournament. 
ranked Texas last Friday They fell to Northwestern LaPhonso Ellis, the heavily with 2: 18 left in the game. 
Last year, after the Irish night in five hard-fought and then beat Duke to finish recruited 6-ll freshman for­"I'm glad we got off to a good

.­
finished their second 30-win games, 14-16, 15-7, 15-4, 14-16 third in the tournament that ward from East St. Louis, Ill., start as far as winning is con­season, they could hear the and 15-7 and Penn State in was held on Oct. 11-12 in the came off the bench and scored cerned," said Ellis. "It's a lotbells ringing, but it took a five games Saturday night, JACC. 

18 of his game-high 27 points more physical here (than inmore challenging schedule 15-6, 12-15, 15-13, 5-15 and 15-"Penn State has a great during the first nine minutes of 
see ELLIS, page 15
and some big wins to earn 2. team," said Irish head co­the second half, leading thethe team its first-ever invi­But, more important than ach Art Lambert. "We'retation to the tournament. the dent in the team's going to have to raise our 

Inside Sports 
Now the Irish stand at 18-9 record, was the fact that the level of play if we're goingand have crept up to 15th in results of the invitational set to beat them, but the girls 
Piane named '87 Coach of the Year ...... page 18
the NCAA polls--their high­the stage for Notre Dame's 
est ranking ever--en route to rematch against Penn State 
see NCAA, page 15 
Women open season tonight ............. page 13
claimin home-court advan-this weekend. 

·­
L ___ 




