
Shake 'em up baby
IACCENT: Take the plunge 
Occasional thunderstorms 
with an 80 percent chance of 
rain Tuesday. High in the

/VIEWPOINT: Chuck Barris --NO style 
middle 50s. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 114 TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1988 
· the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
I 



Israeli army closes Gaza Strip, West .Bank 
Associated Press mitted, however. The orders The Palestine Liberation Or­also forbid Palestinians living ganization has ordered 
JERUSALEM-The Israeli in the territories from entering widespread Arab protests army on Monday imposed its Israel, affecting about 110,000 against Israeli troops and broadest clampdown yet on the Arab workers. Jewish settlers. 
1.5 million Palestinians living The 65,000 Jewish settlers Israel's ability to deal with in the occupied territories, who live in the occupied ter­expected unrest on Land Day sealing the regions for three ritories will be permitted to is viewed as a major test of the days to combat a PLO day of move freely. military's muscle to quell the protest. uprising that began Dec. 8. 
The army also announced it In Washington, the State De­The closure "stems first was barring journalists from partment criticized Israel for from our desire to tell the the territories for the first time sealing off the territories. Arabs 'You decided on Land in the four months of unrest "We regret the decision be­Day, so let's have a confronta­that have left 119 Palestinians cause of the impact it will have tion. We'll see who wins,' " and one Israeli soldier dead. on commerce, on visits with Defense Minister Yitzhak 
Under the measure, the family members and the Rabin said on Israeli radio. 650,000 Arabs in Gaza will be press," spokesman Charles "Remember, we have not ex­banned from leaving their Redman said. hausted every means of control homes, while the 850,000 Pales­On Friday, the department at our disposal." tinians on the West Bank will advised U.S. citizens to avoid Rabin said the measures also be confined to their villages travel to the areas because of were taken to prevent Arabs and towns, the army said. continuing disturbances. from the occupied territories 
The three-day closure began The closure followed a mass from inciting violence among at 10 p.m. Monday in the Gaza arrest campaign aimed at pre­Arabs who live in Israel. Strip and at 1 a.m. Tuesday in venting violence this Wednes­Robert Slater, president of the West Bank, an army state­day, when Palestinians mark the Foreign Press Association, ment said. Land Day, the 12th anniversary condemned the measure and 
A youth who participated in a rock throwing demonstration in Ramal­
The restrictions also bar of a 1976 clash between soldiers said the group was considering 
lah is hauled away by an Israeli soldier. The Israeli armed forces
Palestinians from crossing the and Arabs over the confisca­legal action. He said the asso­
have closed the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip territories in
two bridges over the Jordan tion of Arab land. Six Pales­ciation had rejected an army 
an attempt to crack down on violent protests like this one. Story at
River, the army said. Incoming tinians were killed in that offer to permit a media pool 
left.

traffic from Jordan will be per-clash. into the territories . 
Jackson expects Democratic support; Gephardt drops out 
Associated Press in Michigan I think I heard her me, and to embrace those prin­walking to the microphone." ciples." 
Jesse Jackson said Monday He was pushed to withdraw He questioned the notion that he expects Democratic leaders by a third-place finish in Mic­party leaders, believing he can­to embrace him as the nominee higan's caucuses, far short of not win in the general election, if he wins the most pre­the "Michigan miracle" he might ignore his strength at the convention delegates because sought to revive a candidacy convention and give the he "would have earned it from that blossomed in Iowa's lead­nomination to another Demo­the people." Democrat Rich­off caucuses but was trampled crat. ard Gephardt ended his can­in the South. didacy, and Republican ex­Jackson and Michael "They would not have given candidate Jack Kemp climbed Dukakis both campaigned in me the nomination, I would on George Bush's bandwagon. Connecticut on the eve of its have earned it from the 
As Democratic leaders primary. Sen. Albert Gore Jr. people," he said. "There is no wrestled with the implications campaigned in New York and small group, no electoral col­of Jackson's overwhelming was joining Jackson and Sen. lege that can give or take your weekend victory in Michigan, Paul Simon at a debate Monday nomination. If so, why even Gephardt left the race for the night. have a primary. . . . Let the Democratic presidential people speak." nomination at a Capitol Hill Dukakis, the governor of news conference. Massachusetts, was hoping his Democratic Chairman Paul 
"It's been said the opera isn't neighbor state would provide a Kirk said, "I wouldn't be a over until the fat lady sings," victory sufficient to ease the party" to a movement to stop Gephardt said. "Last Saturday pain of his loss to Jackson in Jackson. 
ND Senate calls for divestment 
By GREG LUCAS for complete University divest­abandoned by their originator, Copy Editor ment. the Rev. Leon Sullivan, after The resolution was passed by they did not cause a large 
The Student Senate passed a a vote of 10-5 with one absten­enough effect, according to ··~ resolution Monday night that tion. Holst. Sullivan now calls forI calls for University divestment Holst said the "Sullivan Prin­stronger measures. 
of all its holdings in South ciples," a program of selective Africa. divestment endorsed by the A related proposal, calling 
The resolution was intro­Notre Dame Board of Trustees, for senate support of the Anti­duced by Brian Holst, student should be abandoned because Apartheid Network's boycott of senator, who recapitulated they have not had a significant Coca-Cola products, failed by a arguments that had been made effect on apartheid. during earlier senate meetings The Sullivan Principles were see SENATE, page 5 

Back to the USSR? 
Actually, back from the USSR. Angel Goudeau, currently studying in the Notre Dame program at Angers, France, displays some of her souvenirs from her trip to the Soviet Union. A mysterious friend holds a Soviet version of a Pepsi bottle. 
..-----------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1988 


In Brief 
Road reconstruction near campus will affect traffic for 125 working days, according to the Indiana Department of Highways. Logan Street from U.S. 20 to Edison Road will be rebuilt, and signals will be added or modernized on Logan Street (Hickory Road) at Edison Road. -The Observer 
The sky is falling, said some Hoosiers. A bright, fast-moving light seen in the skies of Indiana and some other Midwestern states probably came from a meteor, authorities say. Indiana State Police report numerous calls from the public regarding the mysterious light Sunday night. Residents of Kentucky, Tennessee and Ohio also reported seeing the light. There also were reports of lights in the sky Saturday night. Some Kentucky residents said the Saturday night lights were the size of a car headlight and· some said it could have filled two football fields. Some say a loud, crashing noise accompanied it. Some said there was silence. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Southern state chairmen in the Notre Dame Mock Convention will meet tonight at 7 in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. Delegates are wel­come. -The Observer 
Overseas Development Network will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. Commissioners for next year will be chosen. 
-The Observer 
"Role of the United Nations and Human Rights" will be the title of a lecture presented by Johannes Van Aggelen of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights today in Room 121 of the Law School. The lecture is co­sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies and the Department of Government and International Studies. -The Observer 
Lenten Penance Service will be tonight at 10 in Sacred Heart Church. University Executive Vice Presi­dent Father William Beauchamp will be the presider. Music will be provided by the Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
-The Observer 
Any Junior Accounting or Finance major interested in Beta Alpha Psi's New York trip on April13 through 15 please sign up from noon to 1 p.m. tomorrow in the lobby of Hayes-Healy Center. -The Observer 
Mock Convention '88 now has available a copy of the platform and rules. Delegates can read both in the Reserve Room of the Hesburgh Library. If there are any questions about the platform, call Michelle at 4172. Those with questions on the rules should call Michael at 1469. 
-The Observer 
JPWChairpersonapplicationsmustbesubmitted to the Office of Student Activities no later than Wednesday, March 30. Applications can be picked up at the Office of Student Activities in Room 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
-The Observer 
ObserverOflnterestsandinBriefsmaybesubmitted at The Observer's offices on the third floor of the LaFor­tune Student Center until2 p.m. on the day prior to intended publication. Of Interests and In Briefs announce free, campus-wide, one-time events of general interest. Regular group meetings are not acceptable material. While The Observer shall attempt to provide Of Interest space as a public service, The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials. -The Observer 

-Ihe-Obse~~or
-------.L-==-Y=-'-----~ 
Design Editor ... . . ... Matt Breslin Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . Slug LaFleur 
Typesetters . .  . . . . . . .  John Rossmiller  
.............. Anne Ducey  
News Editor...  .  . .  Kendra Lee Morill  

Copy Editor ............. Mark McLaughlin Sports Copy Editor... . Theresa Kelly 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Ann Hebenstreit Viewpoint Layout ....... R. Aschenbrenner Accent Copy Editor ....... Theresa Loomis Accent Layout. ........ Kathleen McCaffrey Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenn Conlon ND Day Editor ..................... David Lee Photographer ...................... Mike Moran 
Tile Olleener (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisho:d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obsener is published by the students of the Urtiversity of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olleena-is a member of Tile Aaodllled Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

An Ohio yankee in the land of (Southern) Oz 
They say you learn something new every day. Well over spring break, I learned one thing ... I am a Yankee. I hadn't felt more branded with an unwanted identity since freshman year when I dropped all 23 of my research books for a four-page paper down the library stairs. 
Someone called my entire family "Yankee pigs" once in Georgia when we were on our way to Florida, but the only thing I remember from that town was that my dad had to wake the gas station attendent, who was sleeping on the gas pump, so we could fill up and move on. 
When I found out that I would be spending break in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, I gladly L---~ 


pulled my luggage across the frozen snow­covered plains of Indiana to the airport. I was excited to be going to astate usually associated with sun and sand, but I have never been a big basketball fan, so the ticket in my pocket to the Notre Dame game at the NCAA regionals was only the excuse to get me away for the week. 
Little did I realize that my less-than­enchanted attitude for basketball would stick out of the crowd like a sore thumb in the land qf the South, where college basketball is next to cleanliness and Godliness. 
These people eat, drink, sleep and breathe basketball, and everyone is a Dick Vitale. Maybe I would have felt better at the game had I dressed in Carolina blue and pushed my way through to see the television screens stationed at every gate in the Smith Center. They were broadcasting ESPN so that fans at the game would not have to miss one basket of tourna­ment action around the country, especially their Tarheels. They even named a bar in the area after a famed offense called The Four Cor­ners. 
This basketball bedlam was amazing to me, coming from a steel town in Ohio where bas­ketball is considered to be a consolation sport for us football fans. 
I sat, in comfort, with the Carolina members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's "family", who showed up in green plaid for the Irish appear­ance on St. Patrick's Day. But we might as well have been wearing Union Blue and playing flutes. There were only a handful of us and when the team was announced, the only sound we heard was a dull hiss. Notre Dame is not very well-received, being from the north; and moreover, there is not a general acceptance of Catholicism in the Bible Belt. 

Slowly (very slowly), Southern attitudes about things other than baketball began to un­fold before me, and I felt like Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz, confused by the disruption of my stability. The Tarheel residents that I ran into thought I was brave for wearing just a jean jacket in what they called frigid 50 degree wea­ther. They also noticed that "I tawk funy." 
Southern hospitality is very much alive and the people are genuinely interested in having conversations with you to make you feel at home, or at least to make you realize what you are missing, "being a Yankee and all." 
The food is incredible. The portions are huge and the taste is quite distinctive. The breeze was warm most of the time, except when the Irish lost, but then again, anything would have been warmer than ten inches of snow. 
But the yellow brick road was more like a path for the Irish in their quest for tournament action. I was glad to be back on familiar ground and I developed a deeper respect for college basketball. However, there was snow on the ground, the airport broke by suitcase and classes were to start the next day. 
Ahh. There's no place like home. 

Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer ~ advertising. JUt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 

Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
The Observer 

'Campaign managers' debate issues in Mock Convention 
By MATT GALLAGHER Copy Editor 
The campus campaign managers for the Mock Con­vention reached consensus on the most important issues in the upcoming presidential elec­tion: education, the deficit and making America more compet­itive in the world market. 
In a debate held Monday night in the Hesburgh Library auditorium, the mock cam­paign managers of the six Democratic candidates who will be represented at the up­coming Mock Convention had a chance to answer questions about domestic policy. 
Professor Peri Arnold, chair­man of Notre Dame's depart­ment of government, and Pro­fessor Patrick Pierce from Saint Mary's department of 
government asked a series of four questions to each of the 
campaign  managers  at  the  
sparsely attended event.  
Questions  relating  to  the  

budget, social spending priorities, economic policy and education policy were asked by the two professors. 
The organizers of the debate chose not to place a time limit on the responses of the cam­paign managers. 
Former Arizona Governor Bruce Babbitt ,represented by Dan Sophy, was "the most ar­ticulate of the candidates re­garding the budget," accor­ding to Arnold. Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachussets, represented by Mark Betten­court, was portrayed as the candidate with the most practi­cal executive experience. 
Other candidates 



CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 

Now Renting for Summer Special Low Summer Rates Available Mid May through Aug. 13 
Utilities Furnished Central air Indoor Pool & Recreation Facilities Furnished 

CALL 272-1441 

represented were the Rev. Jesse Jackson (represented by John Farley), Sen. Paul Simon (Bill Smith), Sen. AI Gore 
(Mary LaSata), and Sen. Gary Hart (Mike Collins). These mock campaign managers will represent their candidates during the Mock Convention, to be held April 11 through April 14. 
The debate was moderated by Steve Claeys. 
Education, in its various forms, emerged as a dominant issue. Farley pointed out that "for every dollar of tax money taken in, 55 cents will be spent on defense, while only two cents will be spent on educa­tion." Farley said Jackson pro­posed a doubling of education funding, at the expense of defense funding. 
The campaign managers were unable to respond to several of the questions posed by the two professors and the audience, either because their candidate had not yet taken a stance on the issue or because the mock campaign managers were unfamiliar with their can­didates' responses. 
All of the mock candidates agreed the defense budget needed to be cut. Defense and foreign policy will be debated 
at a similar event on April 6 
Now There Is A Place To Go! 

•••••Club Shenanigans ••••• 
Lunch----Dinner----Drinks Try our EXCLUSIVE SANDWICH MENU-Over 30 new items Beer-Wine-Cocktails-Daily import specials $}.25 
Mon.-Thur. 11 :OOam-1 :OOam Fri.-Sat. 11 :00am-3:00am 52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center 
us 31 
277-1727 --tr--+---­
-o c ~ ~ GJ
"0 '5 "E

c GJ 11:1 . N'D ----+--J_u_n-'ip_•e_r
____c..._GJ..&..-0+--Cl-l 
Stairway to heaven 

Sorin residents Mark Maslinski (on ladder) and Mike McCabe are some of the Sorin residents that probably earned a few heavenly brownie points fixing up the Hope Rescue Mission last Saturday. 
Emmons • 

and Kenneth G. Herrick profes-L____l___________.J:=:f:===::l sor of business administration. 
•David Link, Joseph A. Matson dean of law. 

•Anthony Michel, Frank M. Freimann professor of engine­ering and dean-designate of the College of Engineering. 
•Andrzej Walicki, F.J. and 
H.M. O'Neill professor of his­tory. 
•William 
Wilkie, Aloysius and Eleanor Nathe professor of marketing strategy. 

•Rabbi 
Michal Signer, visiting Abrams professor of Jewish thought and culture. 

•Ajit 
Singh, visiting Dr. William M. Scholl professor of international economics. 

•Sompong 
Sucharitkul, visiting Robert E. and Marion D. Short professor of law. 

•Samuel 
Wilkinson, visiting Dr. William M. Scholl profes­sor of international economics. 


There are 44 endowed chairs fully funded and occupied at Notre Dame. There are an­other 57 established, either fully funded and for which ana­tional search for a chairholder is now being conducted, or in some stage of funding. 



ND faculty installed in endowed chairs 
Special to The Observer Notre Dame faculty mem­bers were installed Monday in endowed academic chairs. The faculty are: 
•Roberto 
DaMatta, Edmund P. Joyce professor of anthropol­ogy . 

•Yusaku 
Furuhashi, Ray W. 


the~~with the dedication~ 
amarathoner and the 
rourage ofan explorer. 
W!: need 1 Ptkt Cnrt'' ,,,lunlttr Ctll UIIII-IIOO..l4-8510. Ell 91 



page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1988 

Graham Chapman tickets to go on sale 
By JULIE RYAN News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance and the Saint Mary's Programming Board held their last meetings for the outgoing members in a com­bined session on Monday night. 
Eileen Hetterich, president of the student body, thanked the members of both boards for the work they've done this year. 
$1.2 million in grants awarded 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received $1,217,431 in grants during February for the support of re­search and various programs. Research funds totaled $1,071,202, including: 
•$210,851 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for research by George Craig, professor of biological sciences, on factors affecting vector competence in Aedes triseriatus. 

•$161,256 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for research by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer/ Pezold professor of biochemistry, on blood coagulation protein-metal ion­libid interactions. 

•$160,571 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for research by Howard Saz, professor of bi­

•$103,353 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for research by Sub hash Chandra Basu, pro­fessor of chemistry, and Manju Basu, associate faculty fellow in chemistry, on glycolipid biosynthesis in mouse T-and B-Lymphomas. 

•$70,551 
from the U.S. Navy for EXAFS and XANES studies in semiconductors by Bruce Bunker, associate professor of physics. 

•$68,000 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for stucture­function studies on plas­minogen and plasmin by Castellino. 

•$55,315 
from the National 


ological  sciences,  on  inter­ 
mediary  metabolism of  hel­ 
minths.  

logg Institute for International Studies. 
•$1,050 
from the International Research Exchanges Board for travel to Hungary by Canon Astrick Gabriel, director of the Frank Folsom Ambrosiana Mi­crofilm and Photographic Col­lection. Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration Lewis Research Cen­ter for research by Hafiz Atas­si, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on the aerodynamics and noise of ad­vanced turboprops. 

•$46,000 
from International Business Machines for re­search by J. Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland professor of chemistry, on metal deposition mechanisms in laser chemical vapor deposition. ­

•$36,169 
from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for research by Alfred Fred­doso, associate professor of philosophy, on William of Ock­ham. 

•$30,000 
from McDonnell Douglas Corporation for re­search by Panos Antsaklis, as­sociate professor of electrical engineering, on artificial intel­ligence and control theory relationships. 

•$25,068 
from the U.S. Navy for 


Dame's Ticket Stub, and the Stephan Baird, a Boston Century Center box office. Street singer, will perform at Tickets will be $5 for students Club Tuesday on April 12 from and $10 for the public. 9 to 11 p.m. at Haggar College 
Saint Mary's will be hosting Center. a Monty Python movie festival During the day, Baird will April 13-16. walk and perform around 
The April13 movie is "Monty campus. Python's The Holy Grail," shown at Saint Mary's Carroll "Three Men and a Baby" will Hall at 7, 9, and 11 p.m., spon­be shown at Carroll Hall on sored by the junior class. April 9 at 2, 7 and 9 p.m.; April 
The other movies have not 10 at 4, 7 and 9 p.m.; and April yet been announced. 11 at 9 p.m. Tickets are $1. 
Be sure to wish a Happy 20th B-day to my Prima Ballerina Lisa Danch 
forever yours, Rhett Butler 

"We accomplished a lot of things this year. A lot of new things got through, like new alumni speakers, library hours and student activities board. Overall it was a good year," said Hetterich. 
Hetterich asked student gov­ernment members to evaluate their positions, comment on the way meetings are run, say what they liked or disliked about their position and give advice for next year's mem­bers. 
The Programming Board an­nounced that tickets for the Graham Chapman concert will go on sale at the end of this week. Chapman was a member of the British comedy troupe Monty Python's Flying Circus. The show is scheduled for April 24 at 7:30 p.m.in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Tickets will be sold at the O'Laughlin box office, Notre 

'l11e Americm Express• Card geb an outst;md111g welcome 
virtuallv an!where vou shop. whether its for a leather 1acket or a leather-hound classic. \\lwther 1ou re hound for a hookstore or a heach in Bem1uda So dunng college and after. its the perfect wa1 to pav for ILL\t ahout eventhing vou'll want 
How to get the Card now. 

College is the hrst sign of success. And hecause we hel,ieve in vour potential. we·ve made it easier to get the American Express Card nght now. 1Xl1ether vou·re a freshman. senior or grad student. !i1ok into our new automatic approval offers. For detail\ pick up ;m application on campus Or call 1-XOO-TI!E-CAR.Il ;md ask for astudent application 
111e American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without It~.. 

EXAFS and XANES studies in semiconductors by Bruce Bunker, assistant professor of physics. 
•$13,469 
from the Smithsonian Institutes for research by Thomas Schlereth, professor of American studies, on everyday life in America between 1876 and 1915. 

•$4,500 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for a minority high school student research apprentice program adminis­tered by John Duman, associ­ate dean of the College of 


Science and professor of biolog­ical science. 
•$3,000 from the Indiana De­partment of Natural Resources for research by David Lodge, assistant professor of biologi­cal sciences, on the distribution of threatened freshwater snails. 
Awards for service pro­grams totaled $46,779 from private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 

Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
The Observer page 5 
ND rats subject of diet, lifespan study 
Associated Press 
The immune systems of rats fed a low-calorie diet appear to function better in old age, a condition that may help explain why the rats lived longer, re­searchers reported at Notre Dame on Monday. 
Immune cells decrease in number with age in rats, a ten­dency retarded by a low­calorie diet, said immunolgy researchers Dr. Yoon Kim of Chicago and Dr. Kara Eberly, a biologist at Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
"Dietary restriction seems to slow the aging process,'' said Eberly. 
Kim and Eberly were joined by about 30 other scientists presenting results of a coopera­tive study on the effect of low­calorie diets on aging among rats raised at Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory. 
"In a restricted diet, the ten­dency is not to use up" the im­mune system's ability to fight disease, said Kim. "Life, and healthy life, is due to restric­tion of diet, maintaining the po­tential of the defense system, not using it unnecessarily." 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the Lobund Aging Project, said the study is aimed at pro­viding a better understanding of why dietary restriction in­
creases the lifespan of labora­
tory animals. 

The scientists said the pre­liminary results with rats rein­force current medical notions about a healthy diet for humans. Nevertheless, the scientists cautioned against drawing new conclusions about the value of cutting down on eating. 
"I think the studies support the wisdom of what is com­monly referred to as a prudent diet," said Dr. Richard Weindruch of the National In­stitute on Aging. "Don't over­load yourself with calories." 
But he added, "The studies at present do not justify a re­commendation to the general public of severe caloric restric­tion, or even moderate caloric restriction, because there are so many difficulties in transla­tion between the animal model and the human situation." 
Weindruch speculated the animals on a restricted diet may undergo changes in metabolism. 
"The animals on food restric­tion may treat the limited en­ergy they ingest in a more ef­ficient fashion, and the biochemistry underlying that greater efficiency may be cri­tical," he said. 

Panama City resident Roberto Foaregs, 71, was lucky owned bingo halls, but Panama's national banks have to get this much American cash for his $465 pension remained closed for almost two weeks. Story below. check. Retirees' checks were honored at government 

Police crush anti-Noriega march 


ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 


Caps and Gov1ns 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30 
Between 9:00-4:00 at the 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Associated Press central business district Mon­
day afternoon. 

PANAMA CITY-Police and Minutes later, a tanker truck soldiers using shotguns, rubber equipped with a turret over the truncheons and tear gas broke cab sped through the line of up a march Monday by march, spraying hundreds of thousands of opponents of people with a choking mixture Panama's strongman, Gen. of water and chemicals that Manuel Antonio Noriega. sent them fleeing into side 
Meanwhile, a general strike streets. that has closed down an esti-Behind the truck charged mated 90 percent of Panama's police and soldiers firing industry and commerce en-birdshot and beating people tered its second week. with 18-inch-long rubber 
Ignoring an order to dis-truncheons. perse, a crowd of more than As people fled the scene in 10,000 cheering people began panic, they left Central Avenue walking toward the capital's littered with their shoes. 
Reporters saw at least two people trampled in the rush, in­cluding a woman who suffered a compound leg fracture. 
Before the march began, Lt. Col. Virgilio Mirones of the Panama Defense Forces urged the protesters to disperse. 
"We don't want to fight with the Panamanian people," the officer said. 
Attorneys for Delvalle, who still is recognized by the Reagan administration as Panama's president, managed to freeze millions of dollars in government funds on deposit in 
U.S. banks.



Senate 
continued from page 1 

vote of 6-7 with three absten­tions. 
Although Coca-Cola now produces their syrup outside of South Africa, it continues to sell and bottle its products in the country, according to Holst. 
"(Coca-Cola) is hiding be­hind a veil of insincerity," Holst said. 
Diane Fitzgibbon, senior class president, said she telt 1t would have been difficult for the senate to make such a spe­cific judgment with the infor­mation they had. 
In other business, the senate passed a resolution that allots $250 for "administrative start­up costs" for the Crime Stop­pers program, passed by the senate last week. 
The resolution stated: "None
of this $250 allocation shall be used to fund rewards." Holst said most of the decisions re­garding specific aspects of the program will be left up to a stu­dent steering board. "(Notre Dame) is the only college that has moved to try the Crime Stoppers program," Holst said. In other business, the senate approved the agenda for the spring Board of Trustees report. The major reports in­clude presentations on the honor code, student govern­ment, graduate students and a follow-up report on intellectual life at Notre Dame. In other news, the senate ap­proved Dan Baldino and Mickey Seymour as next year's president and vice president of Adworks. The senate also approved managers and assistant managers for The Cellar and Irish Gardens. 

---------------------·-~----------------­





Viewpoint 

Tuesday, March 29, 1988
page 6 

P.O. Box Q 
Annual Gong Show tonight 
Dear Editor: 

The curtains of the second Annual 
Gong Show open tonight! The show is 
a unique, fun-filled event produced by 
the class of 1990 to raise money for our 
class service project. 

As sophomores, we have spent two 
years sponsoring St. Hedwig's Out­
reach Program. The Outreach Pro­
gram provides a place where needy 
children from South Bend can go for 
support, tutoring, athletics, crafts, etc. 
Whether students have tutored during 
the week, have chaperoned evening ac­
tivities or have organized weekly Sat­
urday activities, involvement in the 
program has provided those students 
from all classes with fun and 
memorable experiences. 

The kids in the program are at an 
impressionable age and are looking for 
friendships and role models. Coming 
from crime-ridden areas, these kids, al­
though young, have been through more 
difficult times than most Notre Dame 
students. They have learned to fend for 
themselves and usually carry respon­
sibilities that would be burdensome at 
any age. The Outreach Program en­
courages the kids to work hard and pro­
vides rewards for their efforts in the 
form of trips to the Notre Dame campus 
and activities with Notre Dame stu­
dents. The kids look up to Notre Dame 
students and look forward to every op­
portunity to spend time with them. 
While the Gong Show raises money 
to continue the Program throughout the 
year, the production also provides an 
opportunity to get involved. Students 
have been at work throughout the year 
fundraising, preparing acts and or­
ganizing the show. We encourage you 
to attend the Gong Show tonight at 8:00 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are only $2 and can be purchased at the door. The kids will be performing an act themselves and will be thrilled by your support. 
Come and see what St. Hedwig's is all about. Not only will you be contri­buting to a great cause, but you also may just find a way in which you would like to get involved too. Thanks! 
Betsy Joseph 
Pasquerilla West 
Erich Straub 
Doonesbury 
St. Edward's Hall Co-Producers March 27, 1988 

Liturgical Choir exclusion unfair 
Dear Editor: 

As a six year member of the-Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, which sings at the 10:30 a.m. Sunday Mass at Sacred Heart Church, I have looked forward to participation in the liturgies of the Easter Triduum. I was therefore very upset to learn that this year the Liturgi­cal Choir has been excluded from par­ticipation in the Holy Thursday Mass, and that the Folk Choir, which sings at the 12:15 p.m. Sunday Mass, would be the only choir participating. This deci­sion was wrong and should be changed for next year and future years. 
I have no objection to the participa­tion of the Folk Choir. They have par­ticipated with us for the past five years at the Holy Thursday Mass, as well as Junior Parent's Weekend. My objection goes only to the complete exc;lusion of the Liturgical Choir. 
I must state here that I am writing only for myself, to express my own feelings on this matter. I am not writing on behalf of the Liturgical Choir or anyone else connected with it. 
I wrote a letter some time ago to Fr. Daniel Jenky, the rector of Sacred · Heart Church, detailing the reasons for my objection. He wrote a lengthy letter back to me detailing his reasons for the exclusion. I have read and considered Fr. Jenky's letter, but I am still not con­vinced that it was the correct decision. 
I do not mean to be territorial. The main reason I object to the Liturgical Choir's exclusion is that there is a unity among the liturgies of the Triduum, and that the exclusion destroys that unity. 
I realize it is too late to change anyth­ing for this year. Anyone who will be attending the 5 p.m. Holy Thursday Mass at Sacred Heart Church expecting to hear the Liturgical Choir will be dis­appointed. I hope, however, that the decision will be changed for next year and future years, so that the Liturgical Choir will not be excluded from any of the liturgies of the Triduum. 
Joseph McGarry Brownson Hall March 23, 1988 

Blame  wrongly  
placed  on  U.S.  
Dear Editor:  

Whenever a Marxist state commits an act of aggression, the question is not will some leftist group or organization somehow try to minimize or justify it, but rather when this will happen and how much blame the United States will be assigned. Enter Pax Christi-Notre Dame; the beat goes on. 
Mr. Dowd in his letter of March 23 says that the United States is willing to "engage in war before peaceful solu­tions have been exhausted." But the Sandinistas knew that peace talks with the Contras were on the horizon. Yet they still actively pursued an offensive which resulted in an armed incursion into Honduras. Who did you say was "engaging in war"? In other words, Mr. Ortega has once again provoked an incident--yet the United States gets the blame. 
Meanwhile, the deployment of U.S. troops has halted the Sandinista at­tacks, forced them to withdraw back into Nicaragua, -and opened the door for the recent cease-fire. Furthermore, aid to the Contras has forced Mr. Or­tega to make at least modest reforms in the area of human rights and freedom of speech. Continued pressure on the Sandinistas could force a con­tinuance of those reforms. Yet Pax Christi would have us cease all aid to the Nicaraguan Resistance, and at the same time abandon those suffering un­der the Ortega dictatorship to their fate. I fail to see the morality in that position. 
By the time this is printed, U.S. troops will be pulling out of Honduras. They will have accomplished their mis­sion of returning at least a semblance of stability to the region. Sadly, while groups such as Pax Christi show great awareness of the dangers of United States power, they do not realize that this power·can be put to good use. Fur­thermore, while they in effect tell us to trust Mr. Ortega and his henchmen, they do not see the dangers he presents to the Nicaraguan people--and what Mr. Reagan is trying to do about it. But then, they always blame America first. 
Kevin Smant Off-campus March 27, 1988 
Junior World Fencing at ND 
Dear Editor: 
During the next eight days, we will have on our campus 350 athletes and officials from 28 countries taking part in the 1988 Junior World Fencing Cham­pionships. I feel that as in 1971 and 1979, the last two times that Notre Dame has hosted this most prestigious event, this gives us all a unique opportunity to ex­tend a warm feeling of hospitality to our guests. 
I would enjoy putting many of our students in direct contact with our guests and allowing the chemistry that only our students can generate to promote feelings of good will. Any stu­dent who plans to be here from Mar. 31 to Apr. 4, and would like to help as a volunteer, please contact my office at 239-5585, or come by Room 309 of the Administration Building. 
From Thursday, Mar. 31, to Monday, Apr. 4, the best junior (under 20 years) fencers in the world will be competing for the title of "World Champion" at the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. Fencing begins at 8 a.m. each day, with the finals at 7:30p.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students with valid student IDs are admitted free. 
On Thursday, Mar. 31, at 7:30 p.m., the opening ceremonies will take place in the Joyce ACC Arena. Admission is free. We hope that our student body will help us welcome our guests by filling the arena and cheering each delega­tion. 
On Monday, Apr. 4, at 7 p.m., the Notre Dame student body is sponsoring a party for the fencers and volunteers at Theodore's. We would also hope that our students would attend to help us say au revoir to our guests. 
I feel that this is probably the best opportunity all of us will have to meet and interact with such a large number of international students. Let this week 
become an experience that all of us will remember fondly. 
Prof. Michael A. DeCicco President ofthe Organizing Committee March 27, 1988 


Quote of the Day 
"The one thing in the world, of value, is the active soul." 


Ralph Waldo Emerson 

BUT OtJT IN THe FlEW, THIS MAN tuA5 OUTRA6EOUS.' I MeAN, He 7VRN&D INTO 
A TOTAl-IAJ/LO MAN! ...________ 
HA,HA! IT'S TRUe, 
17'57RU&. 
/ 


l~~~ 
I'l..L NEVER FOR6ET THE: TIMe 
IA/13 !<AIO{;O THAT54/V[)INISTA CL.INIC IN POTUA. YOU ANI? JORE/3 8UR5T INTO TH6­NUR5ES' QUARTER.5 ANP...ANO... "\. 

Garry Trudeau 
UM... I!RE 
TH~.ANY 
REPOKTt:RS !NTH& ROOM? 
"' 

Editorial Board Operations Board


Ihe Observer 
Editor-In-Chief ............................ .............. Chris Murphy 
Business Manager .................................. John Oxrider

Managing Editor ................................... Chris Donnelly
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Advertising Design Manager .................... Molly Killen
News Editor ............................................. Regis Coccia 
Advertising Manager .................... Unda Goldschmidt

News Editor .............................. ........ Mark Mclaughlin 
Production Manager ........................ Bernadette Shilts 

The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of VIewpoint Editor ........................ ............ Man Slaughter 
Systems Manager .............................. Mark Ridgeway

Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor ............................. ............. Marty Strasen 
Controller ............................................ Todd Hardiman 

the administration of either institution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as Accant Editor ..............................................Beth Healy 
Graphic Arts Manager ............................ Marga Bruns 

possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .............................Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor ..........................................Michael Moran 1s available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through len_ers, is encouraged. 
.r------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------·--­

Accent 
Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
Anchors away! 
'Fed up' students experiment with creative dining Two weeks ago we, as Notre Dame students, were graciously given a spring break--a week free of classes. During this week junk food became a delicacy as we fulfilled even our strangest cravings. I thought the first thing I wanted once I got out of this institution was a thick. juicy steak. Wouldn't you know, I substituted that steak with a Big Mac. (It was not only great but it was off-campus.) Now that I've been forced back to classes and dining hall  
Stephanie Snyder Less filling  
food, I've once again resorted to my way of semi-er\Joylng meals, that is, using creative dining. Creative dining is the art of making the dining hall food edible by adding other foods or just by creating new recipes making due with what is given, especially the salad bar. Cheese, it seems to me, is the savior of the dining hall (along with our quick heating microwaves). Cheese is melted on eggs, spaghetti, bread and mushrooms, to name a few. Some students satisfy their hunger by melting cheese on Fritos and then adding a little tobasco sauce for the taste of nachos. Another basic part of a typical student's meal, I have noticed, is the salad. The salad is a popular item because the menu fare is never too exciting and those who claim to be on diets refuse to eat anything else. Not surprisingly, many students feel like they are impressing others, especially members of the opposite sex. by suppressing their appetite and being content with just a salad. I have observed an unusual technique of making salads. We all realize the problems that can arise when making large salads in those small bowls. When It's time to add dressing, half of the lettuce ends up sliding out of the bowl and on to the fioor. The solution? Some clever students came up with the idea of putting the dressing in another bowl, quickly nipping it over the salad bowl, holding them tightly together and then shaking them vigorously. This method also ensures that the dressing is equally distributed throughout the salad. A few other recipes include peanut butter on bananas, apples, pears, carrots, celery, and, of course, bread (with jelly). Cottage cheese is often mixed with the fruit of the day by those with the intent of eating healthy. (You can usually see these students at the Ice cream bar later.) Bacon bits on Double Dome Burgers add some excitement between the buns. There is a problem, however, when there Is absolutely nothing in the menu that appeals to me and I'm not in the mood for a salad. When this happens (about every other day) I have one last recipe to fall back on. I take a bowl of Grapenuts, add a Iitle milk --not too much, pour on a little honey, and nuke the whole thing for about 45 seconds. Don't think that there aren't creative drinks because, yes, there are! Mixing juices with sodas is a common creative drink. Rootbeer floats and chocolate shakes are fun to try to make in those small glasses. Probably the most popular drink on a chilly day is mocha: half a cup of coffee mixed with half a cup of hot chocolate. And If you want to be eve,n more creative, you can steal some marshmallows from the Lucky Charms and add them to your hot choco­late or mocha. Although there are many ways of manipulating the food at the dining hall, there are some that won't work. For example, there were marshmallows out one day Intended for hot chocolate only. One student decided to make a version of Rice Krispie treats but his experiment failed as the whole thing blew up in the microwave. Manipulation of the meals and creation of new recipes at the dining hall, I have found, becomes a necessity after a period of time If you want to continue eating there without giving in to the urge to order out. Look around you at lunch. Check out the recipes that other people are eating, and If nothing Interests you, try a couple of the recipes I've mentioned. Be bold. Try some creative dining. M L B  

, 
Fisher Regatta stays afloat of the fun 
TIM KAISER accent writer 

Y
es, It's time again for the Fisher Hall Regatta! For those of you who may be fresh­men or missed out last year because you were too hung over to suffer through the driz­zling rain, the Fisher Regatta Is a homemade boat race on Saint Mary's Lake. This year it will be April 9 and will Include a cookout lunch on the shore along with a five band spon­sored by SUB. 
"What we are trying to do," said Jay Farraher, founder and chairman of the event "Is develop a yearly event directed towards the entire campus that will be both competitive and amusing." 
Amusing it is. Besides dodging a bombardment of water balloons, backsplash from oars and fire extinguis­hers filled with water, competi­tors were stunned last year by the presence of some unearthly figure who walked across the waters of Saint Mary's Lake. 
"We had a lot of fun last year," Farraher said, "but the rain prevented both the picnic, prepared by (University Food Services), and the five band. With warm weather, I think you will see a large turnout by the campus and people will stay and make an afternoon of it." 
1987 Asher Regatta participants paddle their way 
through the waters of Saint Mal)''s Lake on a drizzling day. Hopefully. this year's participants will have a more accomodatlng day on which to show off their homemade vessels and enjoy the accompanying activities. 
Boats can be made out of anything that fioats. Even If it doesn't fioat throw it on board. One of the teams last year put an old bathtub in the middle of their craft. Another boat or maybe it was the one with the bathtub, disintegrated upon contact with the water. 
"Don't worry," said Dan McDevitt, safety committee chairman, "we have talked with the Red Cross and they will be present throughout the race for safety reasons. Along with the Red Cross, there will be several certified lifeguards and monitors in boats alongside the course." 
Last year's boats were real masterpieces. Pangborn's entry, whose boat sported a large wooden paddle and was held afioat by numerous kegs, had a bit of trouble getting the paddle to touch the surface of the water. Lewis Hall couldn't find anybody brave or daring enough to pilot their ship, so they placed a dummy in their boat and tied It to the back of another competitor's craft. 
The Green Seamen, mem­bers of Fisher Hall's team and winners of last year's event are looking to duplicate their suc­cess this year. Greg Tatum, a senior mechanical engineer who was designer and captain of the winning vessel issued a challenge to the rest of campus. "We've been in the Aero Lab for the last month 
testing various fiow patterns and our next stop is the America's Cup." 

There will be separate heats for male and female teams. Prizes will be awarded for top finishers in both categories. That is not alii Awards will also be given for the most original boats. If you don't think you 
will be fast enough to win then get wild. Make a boat out of something original. Someone last year made a boat out of empty two-litre pop containers. 
"Right now, we are working on prizes from local mer­chants," said Omar AI-Farisi, chairman of the awards com­mittee, "but of course, the real prize will be the cherls!}ed 
Regatta Cup." 
I 
The Regatta is a charity event and the proceeds collected from entry fees will go to a Holy Cross missionary called the Andre house. All dorm presidents have the Informa­tion concerning the event and anyone interesed in forming a team should contact them. Even if you are not in the race, come out and join the fun, feed your faces, listen to the band or just lay in the sun. 

--~~------------------------­
page 7 

-
-
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
•

Still 1n the game ... 
Bookstona Tournament 
Monday's Results Stepan 1 

4:00 -We Eat Fish on Friday's over Irish VM by 16 
4:45 -Sphinhy & the Gerbils over I Want Your Sects by 15 
5:30 -5 Guys Who Wish They Played for Xavier over Deep Thoughts by 11 
6:15 -The Rockets over 5 Girts Who Have To 
Get Drunk To Do II by 14 Stepan 2 

4:00 -Penetrators over 3 Guys, 2 Lines, & a Dot by 8 
4:45 -John Quincy Adams & His Cabinet over Disgrace, 23-21 
5:30 -Cocky Frosh over We Ain't No Joke, 24-22 
6:15 -Shark Croakers over We Hate The Ad­
ministration by 4 Stepan 3 

4:00 -Pete & Tom Are Still Fat Over Irish VM II by 11 
4:45 -Yeah Boy! over Canarche Pourte U.K. by forfert 
5:30 -The Witty Linguists over Sleeping Past Noon by 15 
6:15 -Slow White Guys over Kermit and the 
Chuckleheads by 12 Stepan 4 

4:00 -Riker Is A Huckleberry over Thanks For The Mammaries by 17 
4:45 -Carver High over 5 Guys Who Can Cover The Spread by 7 5:30 -Tank and the Fun Boys over The Belly­button Boogers ... by 9 
6:15 -Equable Wayne St. Suspensions over 
Who Cares by 6 Stepan 5 

4:00 -4 Scholpers and One Beltywipe over Tease the Giant Panda by 6 
4:45 -Bayliss Boys over 5 Men Who Explode On Contact by 14 
5:30 -Plugs Players over The Evil House by 7 
6:15 -Revenge of the Screamin' Midgets .. over 
5 Women Under 5'3" by 11 Stepan 6 

4:00 -Jotos over Tahiti Treats by 4 
4:45 -Irish VM Ill over The US Olympic Team & 5 Other Guys Who Choked... by 17 
5:30 -5 Guys Who Spring Soprano.. over 5 Pretty Cool Dudes by 14 
6:15 -Legion of Doom over Mr. Boffo & the 
Bulimic Surfers by 3 Booketona 9 

4:00 -5 Porch Monkeys Feeling Gravity's Pull over JAWMS by 12 
4:45 -5 Guys Who Want To Study Abroad over 50 Lbs. Of Peanuts ... by 3 
5:30 -4 Economists & A Double Domer over We Had A Real Name But... by 14 
6:15 -Fun With Kitchen Utensils over Marv Maestro & the Human ... by 17 
Bookatona 10 
4:00 -5 Guys Following Triangle ... over Bunk Beds in Washington Square by 8 
4:45 -Stationary Motion over 5 Guys Sportin' by 10 5:30 -Vermin Cong over We Were The NBA's Next Expansion Franchise by 5 
6:15 -Death Potatos over 5 Guys Around The 
Rim ... by forfeit Lyone 11 

4:00 -Rich, Dan & 3 Ofher Guys Who Would Spit... over The Jones by 18 
4:45 -Biff & 4 Ofher Batman Sounds over Who Oat? by 15 
5:30 -Hans, Frans & 3 Ofher Guys ... over We'll Be Happy If We Score Ten by 16 
6:15 -Sprocker Met over Count tt, 22-20 Lyons 12 
4:00 -4 Reasons Why Playboy.. over The Bamms & 2 Other Guys by 5 
4:45 -We Got Pimped By Our Roommate over Schleppe & the Boys by 11 
5:30 -One Spud, 3 Saints, & a Hoosier over Do We Want To Win Or... by 12 
6:15 -Too Old To Care over lntravenus De Milos by 9 
Tueaday'e Gamee Stepan 1 
4:00 -4 Handsome Dudes & 1 Ugly Slob vs. Gimme Some Jazz ... Yea Some Jazz 
4:45 -Friends of Ed Pelican over Skud & 4 Other Couch Potatoes 
5:30 -House, Moose & 3 Other Guys ... vs. Bak­ker, Swaggert, Robertson.. 
6:15 -Swaggert, Bakker, Har, & 2 Others ... vs. 
Our First One Was Better Stepan 2 

4:00 -Punt, Pass, & Kick vs. Frankie Valley & the 4 Seasons 
4:45 -We Are Shirts vs. 4 Varsity Athletes & A G(r)eek 
5:30 -Son Of All vs. Shooters & Dribblers 
6:15 -The Banana Slugs vs. No Bones Stepan 3 
4:00 -Tookey Masters vs. Come See Starn UMOC Swallow A Goldfish 
4:45 -Slave Labor vs. 5's All-around 
5:30 -Scene Of The Crime vs. NEHU 
6:15 -Pterodactyl & the Imitation Egg Beaters 
vs. London Pride Stepan 4 
4:00 -Where Are You Bud? vs. Shorty, Squirt, Han Pint, Tiny & Spud 
4:45 -Malicious Prosecution vs. Where's The Justice? 
5:30 -3 Couch Potatoes, A Physics God & 1 Tense Individual vs. The Fun Bunch 6:15-The New Tumbleweeds vs. Bakker, Swag­ger! & 3 Ofhers Jim's ... 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -The Young Fresh Fellows vs. Possible Skank 
4:45 -4 Drunks & A Driver vs. Bakker, Swag­gart ... Pay For It 
5:30 -The Blind Venetians vs. B-elements 
6:15 -Dick Vitale's All-Stars vs. A Guy With A 
3.9 Who Couldn't... Stepan 6 
4:00 -Mr. Woom & the Cavrty Creeper vs. Five Dogs You Can Eat... 
4:45 -We're Pathetic So You Better Not Lose vs. Stone Pony, Steve Clysdale ... 
5:30 -Strategic Frottage vs. The Mad Latin Lover & His Fellow Dank 
6:15 -Spidey's Netters vs. Flo Joe's Hulksters Bookstona 9 
4:00 -Red Death & the Jammin' Provost vs. War Pigs 
4:45 -Tex Toomey & the Screaming Armadillos vs. Johnny Duumbears 
5:30 -4 Guys & A Short Dork vs. 5 Guys Wrth A Suburban White Pump Fake 
6:15 -Crick, Mook, & 3 Other Guys Afraid of Showers vs. The Prudish Ones 
Bookstona 10 
4:00 -Students Of The Game vs. Just Because I Don't Know What It Is ... 
4:45 -The Dunks & 2 Oinks vs. Paleozoic Bums 
5:30 -Barking Rats vs. Team No. 69 
6:15 -Lords Of The Right Hand Rule vs. Sheath, Shout, Score! 
Lyone 11 
4:00 -Spring Break vs. 4 Guys Who Got Air & 1 Guy Who Gets Air 
4:45 -Woosheroonies vs. Larvae: Boon Or Bane 
5:30 -You've Got A Bye vs. Solid Frustration 
6:15 -Stop, My Ribs.. vs. The lllegrtimate Children Of St. Thomas Aquinas 
Lyons 12 
4:00 -5 Apostles vs. Preemo & The Squankers 
4:45 -5 Disciples Of Dan Gerlach vs. St. Mi­chael's Shrinks Your Underwear 
5:30 -Dogged By The Steering Committee vs. Lucky Dog-Crunchy, Meaty 
6:15 -The Citizens vs. 5 Guys Who Want To Be TV Evangelists So ... 
The a..-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Cent•. eooepts classified edveJtlalng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a..-Saint Mery'a office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Centllf, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday through Friday. DMdllne for next-day classlfleda is 3 p.m. All classlfleda must

Classifieds be prepUS, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five 
ctw.ctenl per ct.y_ 

NOTICES  2 & 7 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT, FOR SUMMER &<>R FALL. 272-6306  COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1986. WHITEWATER RAF­TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­ GONG SHOW GONG GONG SHOW GONG  Allante Call me sometime  cocktail & formal dresses tor sale. Latest styles: sizes 5-7 call 272-083€  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. WORD¢PLUS Scholastic Typing-tditing 256-30n  HAVE SUCCESSFUL 2ND INTER­VIEW? Rent Chgo 1 br aptl Big enuf to shana. Sunny vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd firs, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clots, bsmt storage, lndry. 11.2 blk to Lk Shr Dr, bus, 2 blk to L trn, Wrlg, Fld. $650 Incl. ht. Most Chgo leases renew 511, so call early! 312-671-3397 (ND'60). BED AND BREAKFAST Room with private bath and entrance, garage. 2 night min. 291-7845.  LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. AAJAX RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have your carpet professionally cleaned by The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Oil­campus negotiable. We also do furniture. Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle near Kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful inter­cessor of all who invoke your special  SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG GONG THE GONG SHOW TUESDAY MARCH 29 WASHINTON HALL 8 P.M. TICKETS ARE $2 IN THE SOPH. CLASS OFFICE, SECOND FLOOR, LAFOR­TUNE. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST.  Smoke Soak Broke It You're Thirsty Drink COKE MOCK CONVENTION! MOCK CON­VENTION! 50 delegates still needed for the Convention. Sign up in LaFortune: second floor. Join the tun! HELP !!! I need a ride to the Boston area  To Jim Breakfast Man Have a happy happy 21st b-day! Love Jer SWEETS, you couldn't ignore me it you tried.. Thanks to everyone who came out to see  
Vote Kevin and Joe a dedicated Vermin ticket EXPERT TYPIST CAUL JAN FARLEE 256-2393. \ LOST/FOUND I LOSTIT'AKEN!!I dark blue Allergan make­up bag lrom the lost and found box of 1st floor O'Shag. It was only missing for an hour, yet it was lifted. What good are my cosmetics going to do you?l The re­placement cost will be near $75. Call upon your sense of decency and please return the items to 1st floor O'Shag, the lost and found, or 112 Lyonsl £2903. ThanksI FOUND: PAIR OF MEN'S BLACK & WHITE ICE SKATES AT STEPAN CHEMISTRY. ALSO, PAIR OF LADY'S PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN BROWN CASE. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND AT STEPAN IN ROOM 10S.  WANTED SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21¢, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pianoplay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year­book, woodworking, RN and typist. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 91417799406. WINNETKA, ILlam Ikg for daytime stu­dent as summer girl. 312-446-3171 eves. ·'NANNIES NEEDED -SOUTH FLORIDA Nannle&'Mothers Helpers, no fee, 1 year minimum commitment. 1-800-9­NANNY-1 Modern Day Nannies, Inc. WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-7466. Sell me some grad tixs. 32B2 Steve NEED RIDE TO COL. OHIO FOR EASTER BREAK! KATHY x4205  patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present urgent petition, In return. I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glorias. Publication must be promised. St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. Amen. This Novena must be said for 9 consecutive days. Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. BOB Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7daysANeek 233-2342 SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE I Apr. 15-17. Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, B08 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30 7 days/ week. 233-2342 Need ride to Philly or D. C. area tor Easter break. Will share expenses. Please call Tasha X4041. Oh, you betchal I need a ride to the MinneapoliS'S!. Paul area for Easter. I can leave as early as Wed. afternoon and would like to return  HEDWIG'S OUTREACH HOUSE. GONG SHOW GONG GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG SHOW GONG GONG Ride tor 2 needed to NYc-Northern NJ area tor Easter Break. Will share ex­penses and driving. call 22B2. ride needed from DOMd area back to South Bend after Easter break call 284­5227 JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR AND PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH. PRESENTATIONBY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00 P.M. TONIGHT IN ROOM 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS IN­VITED. JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR AND PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH. PRESENTATION B'l PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND  tor Easter Break. Will share expenses. Please call Sheila X4021. T.J. & LISA: Congratulations!! Love, Your Corp. Strat. Groupies... ugly, ugly, ugly .. that's mah tickeet!! ugly, ugly, ugly ... ugly nan on campus ..• To Harry from Carroll, Thanks for walking me home on Saturday night. I was beginning to worry about whether or not I'd make it. Would you like to go to my SYR on April 9? No repeat episodes ­I promise. I'm not like that all the time. It so please reply here by Wednesday April 6. C from Lyons ATTENTION FLANNERITES DANCING GAMBLING HORSE RACING FLANNER SYR APRIL 81 GET OUR DATES NOW!  ..  CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING sat. night. I know I speak for the whole band In saying It was a Dream Come True!! Tone .25 BEERS at BRIDGET'S Tuesday QUARTER BEERS at Bridget's Tuesday Night No Money But a Need For BEER? No Problem .25 will get you one at Bridget& Tuesday night .25 BEERS at BRIDGET'S Tuesday Night  
Tuesday morning. I'll pay money, share  PLACEMENT  SERVICES.  7:00  P.M.  
r - A reward tor return ol men's gold bracelet lost in or around the ACC on Sat. Mar. 19 after the NCAA Tourney night games. Please. if there is a God or a St. Jude, or a St. Anthony, then let the tinder call me. as the bracelet was an 87 xmas gift from my now deceased wife. Please call Pat. 239 5096 or 289 9867 LOST: A gold timex watch with gold band on March 23 in the ACC weightroom or the adjacent rear parking lot. PLEASE contact Kirk at 2B9-6714 if you have found it. LOST: A YELLOW JACKET IN THE ICE CREAM SHOP. REWARD FOR RETURN. CALL 239-6936 OR 683­7836. FOUND: Claddagh bracelet at Bridget's Saturday night. Call Kathleen £4174. LOST: N.D. RING--Inscription reads, I J G 'B9".1f found, please call x2003.REWARD!IIII LOST: A BLUE ANN KLEIN SASH. LOST SATURDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN GRACE HALL AND WASHING­TON HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CHRISM X1747 Lost: a small brown leather pouch on a· leather necklace, containing a relic of St. T. Aquinas. Any help call Eric 1305. LOST: Silver,Beii-Point,Cross pen --If found please call Kevin £1004 ~-~-R_R_EN_T~j FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 28B-0955'255­3684 ················································ FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL. LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI­ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS  PLEASE SELL ME GRADUATION TICK­ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$1 CALL MARC AT 28B-7105 RIDE NEEDED back to NO from Twin Cities after Easter. ·Will share expenses. Call Bridgette 38B 1--earty morn or late eve. RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY,NV!OR WITHIN AN HOUR OF FOR EASTER BREAK.CAN LEAVE AS EARLY AS WED. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 3460. NEED RIDE TO PITT FOR EASTER CALL JOE 3883 FOR SALE Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Gat the facts today! Call1-312-742-1142, Ext. 7316. SUPER SINGLE WATERBED WITH DARK PINE BOOKCASE HEAD­BOARD. GREAT CONDITION. IN­CLUDES HEATER & BUMPER PADS. $200 FIRM. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 P.M. GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. (U Repair) BUY Properties for back TAXESI Info, REPO Lletlng 1-518-459-3546 EXT H-794 24 Hrs. ~~-TIC_K_H_S~ NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL GREG 2n-8698. round trip tickets-new orleans-very cheap call-232-0550-5 PERSONALS  expenses, etc. Call Kris at 4505. ATTENTION B8 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 Bartles Imports BMWMAZDANW All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­INGS 914-3614224 Just say uNOc. ugly nan on campus.. God, she's uglyl STRAIGHT MESSAGE £4 "I really like what's happening to you. I don't know what they say to you in those meetings you go to, but you seem so much happier and comfort­able with yourself. That means a lot to me. Really." Transfer student looking for cheap sub­let tor summer monthsl call 3484 Peenmo and the Squankers Word Tour 1988 begins on Tueaday March 29, 4 p.m. at Lyons 12 Squankees beware! Smoke Poke Soak It you're thirsty COKE  TONIGHT IN ROOM 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS IN­VITED. JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR AND PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00 P.M. TONIGHT IN ROOM 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS IN­VITED. WAKE UP! Somebody wake her up. This ain't no rest home, missy! The sole reason that Notre Dame women were not in the top 150 best looking female college populations: nan sauer tor UMOC.. TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE DESIG­NERS OF HELL VACATION 1. I HATE this STUPID bus II 2. Does anyone want to play Balderdash ... PLEASE! 3. Ooh Marcia Brady, Marcia Brady... Pump up the Volume! 4. I'm waiting for Kringle to bring me a Johnson. What's a Johnson, Jim? tt's a tree day at the beach. 5. Bill, Naille, and Carol-Future spouses? 6. Don't talk to me because I won't say anything backl 7. Save some for later, girts. 8. I don't think I know you anymore! 9. Stacey, Where am I? Shut up, Jack -Your voice is BOOMING! 10. You're Cool-You're really Cool. MORE QUOTES FROM KEY WEST '86 1. Rasia Jarhead 2. Don't stop drinking 3. 46 hours 4. IIIII LLLLike Ill 5. No pain, No pain..........................................  Knucklehead I had the best time with you in CALI-I'll never forget it! I think we should continue it! LOVE,nead AMY H. THANK YOU FOR THE PICNIC AND DANCE SAT. I HAD A FANTASTIC TIME. CAN I INTEREST YOU IN DIN­NER? KEVIN MIDNIGHT MASHER -GREETINGS FROM YOUR FAITHFUL FOLLOWING. ENJOY YOUR BREAK, BUT BE GOOD. OR ELSE! GUIDO TO SAMIRA, GREG, PETER, DENNIS AND CHONG : WHAT A GROUPI THANKS FOR EVERYTHING, FOR THE COUNTLESS HOURS YOU PUT INTO THE FESTIVAL. YOU ARE THE ABSO­LUTE BESTI A.B. TO ANITA (WHAT AN ARTISTI), MARIANO, JOZEF, ESTER, MARLENE, LIZI AND ALL THOSE WHO HELPED IN THE FESTIVAL: THANK YOU FOR MAKING IT SUCH A SUCCESS. YOU'RE GREATI For SOAPY CHRISTMAS TREES, call Karen's House of Sin 222-BEER EASTER IN COLORADO Round trip air­line ticket CHEAP call x4514 THE APPARITOINS OF THE VIRGIN MARY IN MEDJUGORJE,YUGOSLAVIA WILL BE DISCUSSED ON WED. THE 30TH AT 7:30 IN THE BASEMENT OF KEENAN HALL A 45 MIN. MOVIE WILL FOLLOW. IT'S THE DATE OF THE CENTURY!I!II DON'T MISS THE DATE OF THE CEN­TURY!I!!I THREE WEEKS FROM SAT­URDAY AT CLUB MOVE SEE YOU THERE BERNIE!!!!!  DON'T MISS QUARTER BEERS AT BRIDGET'S TUESDAY Congrats to the BEST WOMAN of The Best Man: KAREN G !II Sorry we missed it ~heard you were awesome! LOVE, Col & Julie For sale: One way United Limo ticket, $20. Call £4355 DeeDee, Thanks for the great time Fri. night. Your the greatest. From D.C.I. Yo Monica!!l I promise not to laugh con­tinuously at youllll Or cheese out on our bets any morel!! By the way, Bridgets was a blastlll Pebble Beachllllllltllt I am going to mlsa you while I'm gon•mBut who will be the tannest???????? Mike N. (the Good Will leprechaun) Thanks for a great time Fri. night. I'll try not to become an Observer addict it you promise to stop by and visit sometime. s HEY YOU HEY YOU HEY YOU THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 ANY COMEDIANS, M.C.'S, OR PEOPLE WITH STUPID HUMAN TRICKS THAT WANT TO PERFORM IN BETWEEN BANDS AT THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 86 AT STEPAN ON a-15 SHOULDCONTACTDAVEAT1851 OR  
AND BRIDGET'S. FURNISHED OR UN­FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA­TION CALL 2n-7360 DAYS OR 272­6181 EVENINGS.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Things We Won't Miss XXV: A long line tor cardboard veal  Good Luck Kevin and Joe in the Carroll Hall Elections Love the ladies of Lyons  Jason, isn't it? Gotchal ...SaWeet, Duuude!l  PETE AT 1422 IMMEDIATELY! ALL PROCEEDS FROM THE MARAT­HON-CONCERT WILL BENEFIT CYS­TIC FIBROSIS.  
··········'····················································  

Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
The Observer page 9 
Too much to do in too little time 
It was a simple case of too many matches in too few days for the Men's Volleyball Club last week. A tired Irish squad managed to win three games during that four-day span, but lost two other close contests. 
A 15-2, 15-6, 15-5 sweep of Aquinas College started the grueling stretch last Thursday. That victory sealed the Northern Conference Championship for the Irish. They finished the season with a perfect 10-0 mark in conference play and left coach Bill Anderson looking for better competition. 
"I knew there wasn't a team in the conference that could beat us," Anderson said matter-of-factly. "Next year, we're going to be an independent. It just doesn't do our program any good to play these teams in the conference." 
Indiana-Purdue Ft. Wayne downed the Irish in straight games Friday by scores of 15-10, 15-8, 15-7 in the JACC. Notre Dame then hit the road and bounced back with a 15-5, 15-6, 15-8 win over Miami Saturday. Then, the big road trip began. 
The Irish boarded a bus at 4 a.m. Sunday morning with a destination of Normal, Ill. and the Illinois State tourney. They arrived tired and sluggish, losing to Wisconsin 9-15, 15-6, 11-15, 13-15 in the first round. The Irish bounced back to take the consola­tion contest 15-6, 8-15, 15-12, 10-15, 15-10 over the host Redbirds. 

"I wasn't happy at all with the way we played," 
Anderson said. "San Diego State dominated us. We should have beaten Chapman College, but luck didn't have it that way. I think maybe we had a little too much sun. We kind of forgot part of the reason why we went out there." 
The Irish now stand 22-9 with only the Regional Championships ahead of them. That tourney will be held April15-16 at Bowling Green. 
The Rugby Club lost to Ball State 13-12 last 
weekend to fall to 1-1 for the spring season. 
"We really should have beaten them," Club Vice­
President Pat O'Malley said. "There were some 
really questionable calls made. We played really 
well. The serum held us in the game the first half 
and then in the second half the backs started to 
play well." 
The Irish defeated the South Bend Men's Club to 
begin the spring campaign earlier in March. The 
team travels to Purdue Saturday, April 9. 
Irish tennis returns home to take on Hawaii, Ball St. 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team plays at home for the first time in close to a month on Thursday when they host Hawaii. On Saturday the Irish take on Ball State. Both matches are scheduled outside on the Courtney Courts. 
First year coach Bob Bayliss feels the Irish (12-7) will-be un­derdogs in both matches. "We are most decidedly underdogs 
SENIORS 
against Ball State. They have a great squad and play excel­lent doubles. I don't know that much about Hawaii, I've heard they are very good. We won't be taking them lightly." 
Hawaii has not faced Notre Dame since 1980 and is definitely an unknown quan­tity. They will play a tough schedule as they hit the mainland--also taking on In­diana and Purdue next week. Hawaii, which shocked Ohio State last season, is led by four 
SENIORS 
*Haven't found a job yet? 
outstanding native Australians were 21-2, and started this year doubles. Besides the All­and is coached by veteran mid­ranked third in the Midwest, Americans (Hershey and western coach Jim Switter. They have won the Mid­Nixon), Ball State has a greatBayliss knows a lot more­America Conference for five singles player in Marty Reist. 
about Ball State, but he doesn't straight years." This will be an extremely tough like what he hears. They are in "If we want to win we've got match for Notre Dame." one word, "awesome". Ball to play tough in singles and State is led in doubles by the All-American tandem of Todd Hershey and Eric Nixon, one 
Sports Briefs
of the best doubles teams in col­lege tennis. "Ball State is the best team 

Keenan Hall won the first annual Pangborn Cup that we will play this season, 
campus-wide golf tournament last Saturday. Pangborn's without a doubt. Last year they 
Tom Shallow won the individual honors with a nine-hole round of 37. -The Observer 
The ND Crew team will hold a meeting for both the 
SENIORS 

varsity and novice squads tonight at 7:45 in Room 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Election of new officers will be discussed. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball will hold a captains' 
*Want to take a year off before Law School, 
meeting on Thursday, April 7 at Montgomery Theater.
Med School or Grad School? 
For more information, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Ob­server
* Interested in a career in law? 
ND baseball will be the topic of WVFI's "Speaking of Sports." Rick Rietbrock and co-host Brian Broderick
A Chicago litigation firm specializing in the medical and legal 
welcome Notre Dame's Mike Harmon, Chris Flynn and Steve Skupien. Call239-6400 from 10-11 p.m. to talk ND or
aspects of asbestos litigation will be interviewing all 
major league baseball. -The Observer
interested candidates for a legal I medical internship: 
**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
1. 
REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially recognized organization on campus. 

2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 

3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 

4. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 


DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Student Center 
uations." 
The Screaming Midgets From Hell took out their revenge on Five 5'3" Girls and evened their career Bookstore mark to 1-1 with a 21-10 victory, led by 5-8 center Ron George's eight points. 
John Quincy Adams and His Cabinet, donning Old Glory on the front of their team jerseys, nipped Disgrace, 23-21, in over­time, as if the conditions weren't bad enough for a standard-length game. The President's namesake himself canned the opening point and proceeded to lead his adminis­tration with eight points. 
In other action yesterday, The Rockets exploded past 5 Girls Who Have To Get Drunk To Do It, 21-7; The Penatrators drilled Three Guys, Two Lines and A Dot, 21-13; The Witty Lin­guists alarmed Sleeping Past Noon, 21-6; Slow White Guys -, whacked Kermit and The Chuckleheads, 21-9; The Belly­Button Boogers And Toe Cheese picked apart Tank and The Fun Boys, 21-12; and Biff and Four Other Batman Sounds socked Who Dat? 21-6. 

Fencing 
continued from page 12 
"We out-performed what I anticipated we'd do in the fall," said DeCicco. "From the beginning of the season, I knew that we might have something, and from there we steadily im­proved." 

April 11 at Saint Mary's College April12 at Notre Dame 
Please sign up for an interview with your Career and Placement Center or send letter or resume to: 
Terrence M. Johnson, Esq. The Monadnock Building 53 West Jackson, Suite 1650 Chicago, IL 60604 
1-312-922-4022 
Bookstore 
continued from page 12 
While the rain caused only two forfeits, this slippery situa­tion caught the attention of the Bookstore committee. 
"We're not sure how to han­dle the use of foreign sub­stances to gain an advantage over the opponent," joked Bookstore Commissioner Mike Manning. "I'll have to get to­gether with the other commit­tee members and see how other sports, like professional wres­tling, have handled similiar sit­
Tuesday, March 29, 1988 

page 10 The Observer 
Belles stay perfect, top Wheaton 

By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
Although the weather forced it to play indoors again at An­gela Athletic Facility, the Saint Mary's tennis team was able to outlast its competition and maintain its perfect record. The Belles defeated Wheaton College 6-3 in boosting their record to 2-0. 
Once again the freshmen played key roles in the Belles' victory. Many of the players were victorious in two straight sets. 
Freshman Sarah Mayer was promoted to the position of the number one player in the singles competition because of her outstanding performances in the past. Living up to the ex­pectations, Mayer defeated her opponent 6-1, 6-2. 
Belles fall to sw Michigan 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's varsity track team lost Saturday at Southwestern Michigan Jr. Col­lege. The Belles scored 46 points in their first outdoor meet, but it wasn't enough to beat one of the top five junior colleges in the country whose star runner is a member of the Jamacian Olympic team. 
Unlike our recent spring weather, the afternoon was cold, windy and snowy. The conditions challenged the team, yet it still managed to show some fine individual and relay performances. 
The 100 meter dash was the highlight of the meet as fresh­man Kelly Streit tied the school record in the event. Her time of 13.2 seconds run was enough to match Ann Boutton's record set in 1982. 
The time was only enough for a second place finish as Streit 
SMC softball drops four 
By JANE SHEA Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team lost double-headers fell just short of a victory. Second place finishes were Streit also captured a second captured by two of the relay place in the 200 meter dash for teams. Sophomores Margaret the Belles. Cushwa and Mary Cassidy, 
The only first place finish Daday and Streit ran in the 1600 came from Jeannette O'Neill meter relay while Kennedy, who threw an impressive 104' Daday, Cushwa and Cassidy 7" to win the javelin while ran in the 400 meter relay. teammate Stacy May finished Junior Beki Davis finished 
third. with two thirds, one in the shot­Top point winner for the put and one in the long jump. Belles was Maggie Daday, who 
captured two second place "I was very pleased with our finishes, one in the high jump performance," said Belles and one in the 400 meter head coach Larry Szcec­hurdles. Senior Cathy Kennedy howski. "It was our first out­also ran to two second place door meet, attitudes were up finishes as she placed in the and there were a lot of im­1500 and 800 meter runs. Junior provements in the starting 
Jacque Benchik recorded a times. I have high expectations second in 5000 meter run. for the rest of the season." 
March 29, 1988 
Happy 20th 
Birthday 
March 24 and 26 to Taylor Uni-r-:-=:::""::::~ooooooo::--.:::-=,..--,.----:7--:::::~-"""'::::::-':::::-"';::::--.:::~D""?7/'71'" versity and Anderson College respectively. 
Saint Mary's lost at Taylor by scores of 4-3 and 8-7 with Michelle Pinter pitching both games. 
The Belles played Anderson 
MAD Magazine is cur­
College at home on a freezing Saturday afternoon and lost 13-rently looking to 3 and 12-2. expand its freelance 
Tammy Shelor pitched the 
staff of artists and writ­
first game and Pinter pitched part of the second before she ers. That's right! If was relieved by Shelor. you've got what it 
The softball team will travel 
takes, you could be one
to Huntington College March 29 
and Southwestern College March 30.  Michigan  of the Usual Gang of Idiots! Send S.AS.E. for  
guidelines or send  
NON-RETURNABLE  
samples of your writ­ 
ing or artwork to MAD,  
Operation Funnybone,  
485 MADison Avenue,  
New York, NY 10022.  

Jen Block had some difficulty with the inconsistency of her competition, but also came through with a victory in two straight sets with scores of 6-2, 6-2. 
"Jen played really well," co­ach Debbie Laverie said. "Her opponent was difficult to play because she was very hot and cold, but Jen kept the pace going and beat her." Mary Turk also turned in an out­standing victory. Turk was down 5-1 in the tie breaker of the first set but came back to win 7-6, 6-4. 
Also contributing to the Belles' second victory of the spring season was Charlene Szajko with a 6-3, 6-2 win. 
In doubles action, a change in the partnerships for the num­ber two and three teams pro~red beneficial, but the number one team could not pull together to win. 
"They played really tough but just weren't quite on the right track and lost one they shouldn't have," said Laverie. 
Mayer, Block and Turk con­tributed to the Belles' victories in doubles in addition to their successes in singles competi­tions. 
Mayer teamed up with Turk to come from behind and con­quer Wheaton's players 3-6, 6-4, 6-0. 
The duo of Block and Jane Schnell won with scores of 6-2, 
6-1. 
"We didn't have a spring trip this year so it was tough to come back with only three days to prepare for this match," said Laverie. "I think this has been a great start to the season." 


Saint Louis University's Academic Year in Madrid 
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: English, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Administration, TESOL, Sciences, Hispanic Studies 
SLU in Madrid is a member of AA/EOE 
Graduate Courses offered during Summer Session in July 
More than 900 students in the Program 

Contact: Saint Louis University Raymond L. Sullivant, SJ. Study Abroad Coordinator 
Saint Louis University in Madrid Admissions Olftce Calle de Ia Vina, 3 lll North Grand Blvd Madrid 28003 SPAIN St. Louis, MO 63103 Tel: 233-2032/233-2812 ToO-free tel: 1-800-325-6666 
Uncles Irish Pub TUESDAYS 
lleeli 




~c~liQ

l:v-ce-t 
• 

Student Art Exhibit 
Participants must be a NDJSMC stu dent Only flat works accepted (drawings, design, photography, paintings) with a maximum size 3x3' The Exhibit will be shown at La Fortune Student Center April 6-9 Two Purchase Prizes of $200 each will be awarded 
plications will be given Mon. March 28 
through Thurs March 31 at the Student Government Office Special thanks to the Alumni Office and the Snite Museum for their donations to the purchase prize awards. 

~--­
Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Comics The Daily Crossword 

11 Antlers 46 Bills of fare 51 "-boyl" 55 Boast 12 Omit 47 Moderates 52 -and void 56 Biddies 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

-
Bill Watterson 
\ 

~'~­
Deer vandals 



'(OO SOUND 

t>..'tlFUL. XOJ'VE 
GC:SI f>-ll<CX; \N 
'(OJR 1\-\RO~T. 

Bloom County 

Bloom County 
Mlt.O / 1HI5 15 Offl5 
CHECK!N& IN/ 5TEV£ 
15 PEFINITt't.Y NOT.., 
RU'eflr tVOr HIM5Eif/ 
I 

Bloom County 
ACROSS 1 Suture 5 Condition
Berke Breathed 10 "-also 
serve ... " 
14 Tex. town 15 Glass sheets 16 Part In a play 17 Sacred image 18 Upright 19 Diva's number 20 Scatter 
recklessly 23 Endure 24 Assault 25 Spiral 28 Soaks up 
sunshine 31 Many 32 "-fideles" 34 Labor union 
letters 
·37 Disown 40 Comp. pt. 41 Restraining 
strap 


42 Peruvian 43 Palm fruit 44 Active
Berke Breathed 
45 Live coal 48 Trim 50 Abandon
lfc BOIIOHT f'tt'ffrctJ mNm 1 57 Biblical word 1/N/J He flrt JI/5T &trflfE:f 
58 City on the Po 
1/N/J /!JRIE CHeE5E RJf( 
59 Grow fatigued 
60 Song lor two 61 Skid
t.t/NC.fi / I m.t-Yl1, 
1HERt'5 NOTHING HE C(}(JUJ 
62 Jacket type
PO 7HfiT W(}(JtJ? 511f?P!i'/5E 
63 Existence
Me 

64 Bitter drugs
1/NY/fiO/?E. 

65 Adages
/ 

DOWN
-ltJLp 

1 Loretta of TV
IT.. 

2 "To -His 
Own" 
3 Acidity 4 Obelisk e.g. 5 Small 
barracudas 6 Playing card 7 Dill herb 8 Georgia ­9 II. city
Berke Breathed 
10 Locomotives 

1988 Tribune Media Serv•ces, Inc All Rights Reserved 
13 Leavening agent 
s p AINIS A l T-S A p s 21 Paraffin 
A l MIA A M 0 R E. A 0 I T 22 Aroused from 
R U 8 Y M A 0 A M. T A T E sleep 
A M A~ l Y M A N


A lii.B
25 Goldie of 
S I l 0 A I R-films 
A~ PEl! FlO RIElS A I l 
26 Ardor A~ AS~· 0 E I G N. P R 0 27 Misplace 
l I D OIIJI P AU l o• H 0 A R
28 Outstrips 29 Tennis name 
Ioro• FIINI~rlalu T TIE
TE R R A c E s B A TM
30 Vega e.g. 
i-A R K V E R[l
32 Medical subject: abbr. 
As r nliorLrorG ,~~~•rc o 
S 0 R E EIV E NT OIA 0 0 34 "-It a 
33 Leave out 
T A I L fsfllllllciE IITRIOIIII lovely ..." 
A R MY D E E D PlY R E 
35 Places 36 Distant 
03/29/88 38 Midwest airport 39 Controversies 43 Dedicate 48 Rebuke 53 Crowd at 44 Trouble 49 Unaspirated times 45 Dodge consonants 54 "Rio -" 



Sports
page 12 Tuesday, March 29, 1988 
Mohan leads Irish golfe.rs at E. Kentucky Invite 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
·--="· 

\... The Observer I Jo Whitfield The Observer I Dan MacDonald 
Bookstore Basketball rolls on, despite sandwhlch (Inset) added food for thought playing conditions known only to the and a sticky defense to yesterday's ac­Notre Dame campus. Marv Mastro and tion. the Human Peanut Butter and Jelly 
By BILL STEGMEIER Sports Writer 
Playing in the bitter cold and rain, the Notre Dame varsity golf team finished nth in a field of 20 teams at the Eastern Ken­tucky University Invitational held this past weekend. The Irish recorded a score of 954 for the 54-hole tournament, with scores of 319, 322 and 313. 
The Irish were competitive at the EKU Invitational, which was won by Western Kentucky with a score of 916. Eastern 
Second place in NCAA 
Tourney highlights year~ 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 

What do you do when your competi­
tion turns in an outstanding gold medal 
peformance? 
Invest in silver. 

-
That's exactly what the Notre Dame men's fencing team did this past week at the NCAA Championships at Prince­ton, N.J. The defending champions from Columbia beat the Irish with a stellar performance and managed to place one fencer atop each of the three weapons, garnering three gold medals. 
"Our only way of catching them was to win a gold medal in one of the weap­ons," said Irish head fencing coach Mike DeCicco. "We should not take anything away from the Columbia team, what with their winning all three gold in the individuals." 
Of course there were bright spots for the Irish. Three-time All-American Yehuda Kovacs placed fourth overall in foil, while freshman Phil Leary was impressive in finishing 16th in his first ever NCAA Championship. 
In the sabre weapon, freshman stan­dout Leszek Nowosielski wrapped up Kentucky, with a score of 921, took second and Louisville held onto third with a score of 937. Also competing in the Invita­tional was Purdue, which bet­tered Notre Dame by only seven strokes. 
Two individuals who per­formed extremely well in the adverse conditions were juniors Pat Mohan and Doug Giordio. Mohan recorded a score of 232 for three rounds of golf, good enough for nth place out of 105 golfers. Right behind 
sabremen helped put Notre Dame in third place overall after the first day of competition. 
Without a doubt, the high spot for the men's team was the performance of junior epeeist Todd Griffee. Griffee ap­peared to be on a mission as he finished the regular season on fire. Losing some early bouts forced Griffee to take the long road, but when the dust cleared he was fencing against John Normile of Co­lumbia for the epee championship. Griffee had to settle for the silver--this year. He will return next year as will all six NCAA qualifiers from Notre Dame. 
Junior Ted Fay will also have another shot next year after placing 18th this season. 
The performance of Griffee cul­minated a team effort that gave Notre Dame second in the overall team stand­ings. 
"For us to finish where we did, I'm thrilled," said DeCicco. "I think that it was a great opportunity for the whole team to see what it's like to compete at the championship level." 
DeCicco not~ that his personal ex­pectations concerning the team were Mohan was Giordio, who finished 12th with a score of 233. 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan was pleased with his team's effort, stressing that Notre Dame's score of 313 was the sixth best score recorded on the final 18 holes. 
"We finished up strong, on a very impressive note. This should help springboard us onto Lewis College," O'Sullivan noted. 
The Irish host Lewis College 
Weather or not 
Bookstore continues for elite 512 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
It's Bookstore allright. 
Friday it was sunny. Saturday it snowed. And in case you didn't make it outside on Monday, it rained. But Bookstore Basketball is even more reli­able than the U.S. Post Office, espe­cially of late, braving the elements as the preliminary rounds continued yes­terday. 
"We scheduled the three major types of weather to see who really wanted to play," said Assistant Commissioner Tony McHale. 
,,,,,,,,, 
•••BO-OKSTORE •••• 
There were Screaming Midgets on Stepan courts and a human peanut but­ter and jelly sandwich on the Bookstore courts, but everywhere there were soggy players who played through the rain and puddles, and all for the glory of reaching the distinction of being one of the 512 best basketball teams on this campus. 
The rain and slick courts when the 
rain let up were not the only sources 
today at 1 p.m. Lewis, with pro­fessional golfer Glenn Sharpe as their coach, will be hoping 
to ambush the Irish home course.  on  their  
Coach O'Sullivan looking past Lewis.  is  not  

"Although we expect to do well, we can never look past any team, especially one with a PGA pro as its' coach," O'Sullivan said. 
After Lewis College, the Irish participate in the competitive for a sloppy situation on the Bookstore courts, where Marv Mastro and the Human Peanut Butter and Jelly Sand­wich dropped their game with Fun With Kitchen Utensils, 21-4. 
"I've lost games for three years now," said Mastro, a senior, "and we decided not to worry about winning but instead go out with a bang and leave a good taste in people's mouths, so to speak." 
While Marv wore typical athletic garb, his cohorts dressed true to their name. One player covered himself with peanut butter, one with jelly and two attached pieces of bread on their clothes to create relative anarchy and an all-out mess. 
"Our basic strategy was for the peanut butter and jelly to clear out the lane by swinging appendages and creating wide-open layups," said the jelly, Dave Marcantuono. "We had to take breaks to reapply the substances, and the ball got pretty slick and hard to handle after awhile. 

"We appreciate the fact that most of the guys on the other team were cool about it," continued Marcantuono. "It was kind of pain for them." 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9 

Purdue Invitational held at the Purdue South Golf Course Easter weekend. Teams from the Big Ten, Mid-American Conferences and Independents from District IV comprise the field at this 54-hole event. 
O'Sullivan is quietly confi­dent of his team's chances at Purdue. 

"Coming off a pretty good EKU Invitational, the team at­mosphere is really conducive for a good showing at Purdue," O'Sullivan stated. 
an undefeated regular season with a surpass.ed. The Notre Dame men's fencing team ment. Chris Fllllo reviews the tourney and fourth-place finish at Princeton. Soph­
brought home a second place trophy the season at left. 
omore Danny Yu placed 13th as the see FENCING, page 9 
from the NCAA Championship Tourna­






