;.l_ /ACCENT: Altered predictions for '88 IVIEWPOINT: Gorbachev: a P.R. genius? 


VOL. XXI, NO. 72 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Members of Flanner's section 38 perform their own acting as a caterpillar. The show was part of Flanner's version of David Letterman's stupid human tricks, "talent" night. 

Indictment possible for North 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North failed Tues­day in a bid to have the Su­preme Court block a criminal investigation into his role in the Iran-Contra affair. 
The justices, without com­ment, refused to disturb a ruling that Attorney General Edwin Meese III properly delegated authority to indepen­dent counsel Lawrence Walsh to conduct the inquiry. 
The high-court order clears the way for Walsh to seek in­dictments against North and other key participants in a scheme to divert the proceeds of secret U.S. arms sales to Iran to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels. 
Indictments are possible in the coming weeks against North, former national secur­ity adviser John Poindexter, retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord and Secord's business partner, Albert Hakim. 
Jim Wieghart, spokesman for Walsh, said, "We are pleased that any question as to the au­thority of this office to carry on its investigation of the Iran­Contra matter has now been laid to rest by the courts." 
The court asked the Reagan administration in a case from Miami for its views on an im­portan! affirmative action issue the power of local gov­ernments to require participa­tion in public works projects of businesses owned by women and minorities. 


University media unaffected by Court censorship ruling 
By JIM WINKLER Staff Reporter 
The recent Supreme Court ruling allowing high school ad­ministrators to censor ma­terial in student newspapers "won't have much impact on what we do here at Notre Dame or at other colleges in terms of publications," said Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for student services. 
By a 5-3 vote last week, the Court decided that the prin­cipal of Hazlewood East High School in Missouri did not vio­late students' free speech rights when he ordered that certain articles be removed from the paper prior to publica­tion. Three journalism stu­dents sued the school, but a federal trial judge ruled against them. Mter an appeals court over-turned the lower court's decision, the case came before the Supreme Court. 
At Notre Dame, the Office of Student Mfairs oversees the publication of Scholastic, the Juggler, and the Dome while monitoring the programming of both WVFI and WSND, student-run radio stations. The Observer exists in a unique re­lationship with the University, functioning as "independent" in terms of editorship and day­to-day control while using facilities in LaFortune Student Center. 
Adele Lanan, assistant direc­tor of student activities, serves as advisor to student media at Notre Dame. Lanan said, the ruling "is a low-blow for the first amendment and won't af­fect the University at all." Lanan added, "We are open to a liberal exchange of ideas," and therefore would be slow to censor any material. 
Rocca clarified this point by saying, "Publications must not run contrary to the explicit mission of Notre Dame as a Christian university. We don't necessarily have to agree with the opinions those publications print, however." Rocca added, 
see COURT, page 3 


'CIA to resume arms airdrops' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan on Tuesday authorized the CIA to resume airdrops of weapons to Nicaragua's Contra rebels, as congressional oppo­nents worked to offset an ex­pected presidential lobbying blitz for an extension of mili­tary aid. 
"This is really a gut issue for the president," said Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., an opponent of the aid renewal Reagan is expected to seek for the rebels on Jan. 26. "It is his highest foreign policy objective. The administration will pull out every stop in order to win this vote." 
The House is to vote Feb. 3 on Reagan's request for an as­yet-undetermined amount of new military aid. If it approves the request, the Senate would vote the next day. 
In a speech to administration political appointees Tuesday, the president reiterated his belief that only continued mil­itary pressure on Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government will lead to peace for the region. 
"We must have the courage to stand behind those who con­tinue to put their lives on the line for democracy in Nicaragua," Reagan said. 
He said his final year in office will be "the year that the United States will strongly af­firm that democracy, not com­
munism,  is  the  future  of  
Central America."  
The  rebels  are  currently  

operating on a short-term infu­sion of humanitarian aid ap­proved before Congress left for its holiday recess, including money to pay for CIA airdrops of previously stockpiled weap­ons and ammunition. That money is expected to last through next month. 
The airdrops had been suspended for the past week be­cause of the weekend meeting in Costa Rica of the five Central American presidents who signed a peace accord Aug. 7. 
Under the law, Reagan must ask for any new military aid next week, triggering votes in Congress the following week. But the administration's task in winning new lethal supplies was made more difficult over the weekend, when Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega 
.promised to make substantial 
concessions to keep the peace 
process alive. 
Ortega vowed to lift the state of emergency in his country that has curtailed civil liberties, to hold direct talks 
see REAGAN, page 3 

Activist Chisholm urges freedom remains our goal 
By LISA MONTPETIT News Staff 
Shirley Chisholm, the first black and the first female to run for president, reminded her audience that racism still remains an ugly blot on our society in her lecture "Protest, Order and Jus­tice." 
Chisholm, a U.S. congres­swoman for 14 years, spoke in Washington Hall Tuesday 
night. "Today we  are  like  
Rip  VanWinkle:  so  fast  
asleep," she said.  

"We are not our brother's keepers; we don't realize that we have a legacy to be­queath to other genera­tions," said Chisholm. 
This "slumber" outlook is only reinforced by what Chisholm called the attitude of the American people, namely "If you don't bother me, I won't bother you." 
At the same time Chis­holm said the current atti­tude of the government is di­rected at reducing the deficit rather than improv­ing the lives of thousands of Americans in this country whom she sees in need during her travels. 

"Thousands of people tonight are not eating in America. Thousands of people are homeless, and bundles are living in trucks and cars," Chisholm said. "All over America, this is happening." 
The numbers continue to grow daily and all minorities are feeling the effects, she said. Farmers are being pushed off their property be­cause of "unfair" and "cal­loused" government policies. 
Chisholm pointed out that it is important for all people to reflect on the philosophies of Martin Luther King Jr. who said, "the goal of America continues to be freedom." 
"Freedom is never volun­
tarily given by their 
oppressor--never," Chis­
holm said. 

"All of us can help by making changes in our own way," Chisholm said. 

page 2 The Observer VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988 
In Brief 

Girlfoundlockedintheatticbedroomofanabandoned house was "doing beautifully" Tuesday, despite her frostbitten toes and feet that may require amputation, her doctor said. Nine-year-old, Darlwin Carlisle, was found Sunday by a construction worker who was nailing plywood over an attic window of an abandoned brick house in the Glen Park section of Gary, Ind. Jeff Griffin said he heard a child's voice say, "Please don't board me up." Gary police Cpl. William Burns said the girl told authorities Tuesday that she hadn't seen her mother or had any water for two days. However, doctors said the severity of her injuries indicated she had been in an extremely cold en­vironment for at least five days. -Associated Press 
A newly recognized cholesterol has been linked with triple the usual heart disease risk, according to re­search released Tuesday. An estimated 1 in 3 Americans inherits the newly recognized form. "We have identified a new genetic trait that may predispose to heart disease risk," said Dr. Ronald Krauss of the University of Cali­fornia at Berkeley. Although Krauss has not pinpointed the gene that's responsible, he said its hallmark in the bloodstream is a substance called dense LDL. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Winterfest broomball teams must confirm their spot in the tournament by Thursday, Jan. 21 in the Student Union Board Office. The tournament will be played Friday and Saturday night on the ice in the Joyce ACC. -The Ob­server 
Keenan Revue tickets will be distributed Friday. Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 3 p.m. inside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Saint Mary's students may pick up tickets at the O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office beginning at 6 p.m. At both locations, no lines may be formed until one hour prior to distribution. The tickets are free, and the Revue will be held on Jan. 28, 29, and 30. 
-The Observer 

The Juggler poetry reading and art show will be held Friday, Jan. 22 at 8:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library lounge on the East Concourse. A reception will follow. -The Ob­server 
The Women's Caucus of Notre Dame will hold its first organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Fac­ulty Lounge of the Hesburgh Library. For further infor­mation, contact Catherine Francis at 233-7295. -The Ob­server 
Applications are now being accepted for the ninth annual Model OAS General Assembly. A delegation of ten students will be sent to participate in this program from March 21 to March 25, 1988. For an application andt>r information, call 239-6580 or 283-4054, or stop by 121 Decio. 
-The Observer 

Marriage Preparation Retreat applications are due Friday, Jan. 22 for the February retreat sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry. For information, call the Badin Hall Office at 239-5242. -The Observer 
---. ----&.~Y=-'---­
-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-­
Design Editor . . . . .. _.. . . .. ... .. Lisa Tugman Design Assistant ........ -Annette Rowland Typesetters .............. Becky Gunderman News Editor............ Ann Marie Durning Copy Editor .. .. . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor ........ Marty Strassen Accent Copy Editor .. _.. .. . Susan Buckley 
Tile OMener (USPS 599 2~) is publis~ Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Olllener, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Mlodated Pnu. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Accent Layout.. ............... Heather Hypes ND Day Editor ................ Carrie McCall Typist ................................. Jenn Conlon 
...................._________________________ Will Zamer Photographer.......... .. .. .. .. Rob Regovich Sports Wednesday Design .. Joe Zadrozny Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara 
Sagan imagines finding proof of God 1n sc1ence 
Carl Sagan imagined something fantastic. He 
made it seem so realistic, too. And if you've 
ever dreaded the thought of having to stomach 
another proof in your lifetime, this could make 
you feel terrific. 
Imagine that it was finally scientifically 
proven that God exists. 
Imagine God left a message for us in some­
thing incredibly simple yet absolutely intrinsic 
in the fabric of the universe. 
In Sagan's book "Contact," God had been 
glorified in a multitude of worlds resplendent 
of his power and majesty, but he had chosen to 
leave his signature in a number. The author 
had left a message for intelligent, scientifically 
advanced life to discover, at a time like our 
own, when human potential threatens the awe 
previously reserved for God. 
God left his message in the number pi. 
The proof skeptics, atheists and independent 
minded college students have longed yet denied 
was finally in, without a doubt. 
There's no question this information would 
change some lives and reaffirm others. Some 
have even said that knowing there is a God 
would make religion obsolete. 
But the real wonder in this proof is not its 
affirmation of Christian values or the sacra­
ments. Christ's name was never even men­
tioned, but Sagan reaffirmed His teachings in 
a modern and realistic way -for scientists and 
theologians. The proof's appeal is the simplicity 
of its message, the majesty it attributes to God, 
and its capacity to thrill and inspire: the mes­
sage had been waiting billions of years just for 
us. 
Sagan's main character in "Contact" is a 
scientist and an agnostic dedicated to her work. 
Ellie is fascinated with science, especially extraterrestrial intelligence, and, from her ob­servatory, records the first communication ever received from space. Ellie and her col­leagues discover they are to build a machine in which they make a fantastic journey through space, leaping through black holes into a uni­verse a billion years old. 
"If God wanted us to know that he existed, why didn't he send us as unambiguous mes­sage?" she asks early in her adventures, but she soon becomes the fanatic. Her faith is the truth, but now her truth is too fantastic for anyone else to believe without proof. 
What Ellie discovers on other worlds not only reaffirms her beliefs in the relatively newborn community on Earth but also convinces her that God exists. 
"Well, eventually -let's say its in the ten-to­the-twentieth place -something happens," they told her about pi. "The randomly varying digits disappear, and for an unbelievably long time there's nothing but ones and zeros." 
"You're telling me there's a message hidden deep in the number pi?" she asked. "How can you hide a message inside pi? It's built into the fabric of the universe." 
"Exactly," the other answered. 
Why couldn't it happen? Why couldn't some­thing as mystical as the number pi hold a secret for us to discover? In the novel, the initail 
.f2Lpp{ications are now being accepted for rrlie Observer's 
Editor-in-Chief, 1988-1989 
.9Lnyone wlio is interested in app[ying s/iou[d su6mit a resume and persona[ statement of no more tfian 5 pages to 1(f,vin 'Bec~r. .9LppCications are due 6y 5 p.m., :friday, January 22, 1988. 
Cathy Stacy 
Assistant News Editor 
Sr~ repetitions of ones and zeros plotted on a grid formed a perfect circle. The numbers really would be endless, the message would continue forever ... 
The circle meant a number of things to Ellie. Computers today could never decode the entire sequence of infinite numbers, but Sagan got his message across. The succession of numbers, if it really worked, could not be a chance event. The message was eleven dimensions deep but it was there. 
I wasn't looking for a message of hope or an expression of faith in this work of science fic­tion. The past semester was exhausting in its continual juxtaposition of science and art as if to disprove one or the other. Here instead was a simple proof, more convincing in the novel than I could present here, but appealing in its simplicity and its central message. 
Sagan told us that scientists and skeptics, in their search for the truth, are not necessarily rebuking God. Some time may come when they will discover an unambiguous message left for them. Faith may be awe and knowledge in­spiration, but unity among people -the complete circle -is life. Before we can be fully human we have to feel the awe, the inspiration and the unity. 
"It doesn't matter what you look like, or what you're made of, or where you come from," Ellie thought. "As long as you live in this uni­verse...sooner or later you'll find the mes­sage." 
VVednesday, Janua~ 20, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Tourney aids research funds 




_·---------·---------, Non-credit courses 
JULIE RYAN News Reporter Notre Dame raised about $6500.00 for the Marc Buonoconti fund to help re­search find a cure for paralysis, according to Sally Derengoski, assistant director of non-varsity athletics. Notre Dame participated in the nationwide flag football tournament the weekend of Nov. 20-22. Derengoski said, the tournament was the first  tournaments, Notre Dame was second in the amount of total fund raising dollars and had the highest number of persons that played. Sixty-five percent of the money pledged at Notre Dame has been collected, she said. According to Derengoski, the tournament was organized to honor Marc Buonoconti. Nick Buonoconti, Marc's father, was a 1962 graduate of Notre Dame. He was a middle linebacker  Citadel and was paralyzed while making a routine tackle. All Notre Dame students were able to participate. Teams were not restricted to residents of halls. Twenty of the twenty-four teams that signed up played with ten to eighteen players per team, ac­cording to the NVA office. The winner of the tourna­ment was Big Bill's Team from Grace Hall. Each player received a Watchman and a t­shirt for their efforts.  
major event to take place in the new Loftus All-Sports Center.  and captain of the Notre Dame football team and went on to  "We had a great time doing this." exclaimed Karl  
Derengoski said, of the one hundred schools that partici­pated and the forty that held  play professional football with the Miami Dolphins. In 1985, Marc was playing for The  Kleiderer, a junior from Grace who was on Big Bill's Team, "Everyone had a good time."  
Court continued from page 1 "We have no intention of using this as a way of censoring. Cen­soring is the court of last resort. I don't forsee that hap­pening." Rocca pointed out that his of­fice has a strong system of communication with the editors of the student publica­ tions, and this communication helps prevent problems that would lead to drastic measures such as censorship. Scholastic, Juggler and the Dome all report directly to Lanan. As for the Observer, Rocca said that at times he or his staff will meet with the editors to discuss material. "We try to resolve conflict of interests, not opinions, through dialogue and conversation," Rocca said.  Last year he met with Observer editors to discuss a beer adver­tisement which was negative to women and was running at the time of student Michael Cogswell's death in a drinking and driving situation. The issue of censorship at Notre Dame was in the limelight last February, when Scholastic published a photo that had been previously removed from the Juggler by the Office of Student Activities.  Trimming trees The Observer I Rob Regovlch A worker in a Cher~ Picker trims limbs off of the trees on Main Quad Tuesday afternoon. The recent mild weather has given maintenance a chance to catch up on outside chores.  

r---..---·---·-·-~-.._.._.. 
1 What Catholtcs Should Know About ... .d d b d
I ~~H~~~~E ~~~N for lliXudent 8~y~fc1.ss
Staff Reporter elections are approaching.
t Church 
Platforms are due Feb. 17, and

I Pra~et. The Saint Mary's Board of campaigns will run from Feb.I Fr. John unne, C.S.C., Dtf!artni,'llt qf7lk'rJiogJ' Sr. Regina Coli, C.S.J., Department Q/71.wolo,r,TJ' Governance discussed Tues-20 to Feb. 23. The primary and I day a proposal concerning run-off elections are slated for 1 Free University, an exchange Feb. 24 and 26, respectively. i program where students and ' faculty could take a variety of In other business, the Board I free, non-credit courses taught announced that it will sponsor 
I 
by students as well as members a Winter Carnival to run fromI Sacramellts of the South Bend community. Monday, Feb. 1, to Friday, The idea was brought to the Feb. 5. Chaired by Mary Carol Fr. Robert Kennedy, noctoml Cm!ditkllt· ill 77X'IJIO,C.TJ' attention of the Board through Cahill, the event will feature a pamphlet delivered to Presi-tubing at Bendix Woods, a dent Eileen Hetterich by Fa-movie and hot cocoa night, ther Tom Stella. bowling, and ice-skating at the 
Sunday, March 6and1Uefthy, March 8 
Classes suggested by mem-ACC. hers of the Board include ceramics, Italian cooking, and "We've decided to do it primary auto mechanics. during the week because that
Morality 
Fr. Drew Christiansen, S.J,, apartme11t ql71x'OiogJ' Courses would probably run for weekend starts another round 
only a portion of the semester, of dances. We want to do it 7 -8:30 p.m., 1\ttnan-Stanford Chapel said Hetterich, adding Free before people start to get the 
University would probably not February blahs," said Smith 
be scheduled until Fall of 1988. Hashagan, vice-president of 
Hetterich also reminded the board and head of the Pro­members that election dates gramming Board. 


Reagan 
continued from page 1 
with the rebels aimed at reach­ing a cease-fire and to release political prisoners when a truce is arranged. 
Administration officials call the promises a ploy to lure Congress into a cutoff of Contra aid, and point to past failures by the Sandinistas to live up to their promises. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Tuesday that the amount and composi­tion of the new aid request will be determined by what Ortega does between now and then in fulfilling those promises, a view shared by aid opponents. 
"The issue remains in doubt," said Hamilton, who was in Costa Rica over the weekend to observe the regional summit as part of a delegation sent by House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas. "The extent to which Ortega implements the concessions he made at San Jose will be criti­cal." 
Associated Press 
GREENFIELD, Mass. ­Fifth-graders upset over plas­tic forks and spoons in the cafeteria are demanding a return to stainless steel, and their principal said they could protest with posters and peti­tions "as long as they had everything spelled correctly.'' 
The campaign, dubbed "The Great Plastic Fork Rebellion" by one father, began a few weeks ago when students at the Four Corners Elementary School discovered their stain­less steel tableware had been shipped to the high school for use by what one youngster called "ugh, teen-agers." 
In the place of the stainless steel were blue-gray forks and spoons made of reusable hard plastic. 
Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 
When You're 
Pregnant, 
Don't Smokel 

Christopher Peters, 11, des­cribed the new tableware as "bumpy, thick, hard to hold ... and eating with them makes you feel weird all over." 
Using non-violent tactics they studied for the Martin Lut­her King Jr. observance, Chris and his classmates hung the cafeteria with posters reading "School Is No Picnic" and "Real People Deserve Real Sil­verware." 
By Friday, the youngsters had gathered signatures from more than half the school's 316 pupils, aged 5 through 12. 
"We didn't break anything or start any riots," said Steven Berson, 10. "We just wrote signs and talked to people, like Martin Luther King." 
The leaders of the protest met Tuesday with the food ser­vices director, who said she would stand her ground under the fire. 


Sandra Herzig said she or­dered the plastic tableware be­cause the stainless steel uten­sils too often ended up in the trash. She added that the plas­tic utensils ·cost about 5 cents less each than stainless steel. 
"When I'm losing one­quarter of my flatware every year, I have to do something," said Ms. Herzig. "I understand the educational value of what they are trying to do, but they've got to look at the cost of things." 
She replaced the stainless steel tableware with plastic at all the town's grammar schools except Four Corners over the summer. 
Quality Processing of your 35mm, E-6 Slide or C-41 color negative film. ON CAMPUS In by 12:00pm out by 4:00pm SAME DAY!! Call 239-5465 or stop in for details!! 
LJE"'~L. p._..,.,. 13 CCe 
The Observer I Rob Regovich
Gearing up 

Sophomore, Lee Whitman and his coach train for the Bengal Bouts at the Joyce ACC. Tuesday was the second day of training. Proceeds from the event go toward the needy in Bengaladash. 

READERS BECOME LEADERS 
This Spring THE NEW YORK TIMES is introducing a NEW DISCOUNTED STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION RATE, 25 cents, MONDAY through SATURDAY, that's 50% below the newsstand 
price. Contact Rick Reuter 283-3586 

Student GOVA'nllllllt prwdly 
1 NOTB DAME tracli.\icn W'hat: 195B MOCK NAT\ONAL CONVENTION 
When : Apri 1 1\-14 , 1988 Vv'hy • Wave tun/ E.lect Notre Darne'5 Choict, for-the. ne;<.t Pres;dent r Vice Presiderrt 
Accc?.. ptinj applicatiOf\5 tor the +'ollov../1n~ commift-ee..s: -cam pai 9n6 -ptat+ckm -dele.3~te~ -rule-s -pub\ic• t~/ prornot;o.-,5 
P.'cK up a\)~\ication trom Siuderrt Go'Je,rnm~ nt OfiC£s 2"'d t\oot' Lo.fot'tune, 
ADWORKS 


~----

VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Menial child labor on Soviet farms protested 
Associated Press nist Party hierarchy opposed publication of his article detail­
MOSCOW -The Soviet prose­ing violations of child cutor's office says criminal ex­protection laws. ploitation of children perform­Officials of the Soviet Health ing menial labor on state farms Ministry refused to discuss the kills hundreds of students and subject with Tass, and a senior cripples thousands more each official of the Komsomol party year. youth organization warned the 
A report on the rare protest writer against publication. by the nation's top law enforce­"We are pushing through a ment agency was disclosed in resolution on expansion of the an article written by a corre­use of children in labor, and spondent for the official Tass such publications only inter­news agency for Tuesday's edi­fere with that effort," the tion of the national labor news­reporter was told by the Kom­paper Trud. somol official identified as A. 
The prosecutor's office com­Rybakov. plained that children as young The organization's desire to as 10 are brought into farm bring more minors into the , labor collectives where they work force was not explained, put in 12 hours a day. but it is a likely outgrowth of l mouthful The Observer I Rob Regovich
The report referred to the Gorbachev's economic 
A resident of Flai1ner Hall section 1OA slurps red jello day night to judges who determine which section was
case of a fourth-grade boy in reforms that require faster and 
the far east Primorsky region higher-quality production with as part of section "talent" for Flanner "talent" night. the most "talented". The slurping of section 1OA was who fell asleep in a bunker and minimum resources. Residents showed off their accomplishments Tues-defeated by a rap by the members of section 11 A. was buried alive in grain. 
st~~!~t~~~p~~::~!~~~~~f~t~ American couple abandons capitalism for Soviet living
Ural Mountains city of Sverdlovsk contracted dysen-Associated Press son was "stupid" for deciding "She just painted him a rosy Tass news agency said the tery when forced to clean to live in the Soviet Union be-picture," he said. "She prob-Branches were granted politi­potatoes in "unsanitary condi-MOSCOW -An American cause "there are so many mil-ably got homesick." cal asylum by the Presidium of tions" and that 135 recently couple who came to Moscow as lions wanting to get out of The couple, which the elder the Supreme Soviet, the were infected with brucellosis tourists have been granted po-there. Why would he want to go Branch said has no children, nominal parliament. at a Central Asian cattle farm. litical asylum after choosing over there?" had been living in Erie with 
The article credited Soviet life in the Soviet Union as an Branch, 77, said his son had him and his wife, Lavera, 73, U.S. embassy spokesman leader Mikhail Gorbachev's "alternative to capitalism," an worked for a radio station in before they left to visit the So-Richard Gilbert said he could campaign for "glasnost," or official said Tuesday. Mount Dora, Fla., and that he viet Union. provide no information about more openness about social Foreign Ministry spokesman left for Moscow against his ad-They arrived in Moscow last the Branches. But he added, problems, with disclosing what Gennady Gerasimov identified vice and the advice of others. month, "declared their unwill-"Americans have the right to it called widespread callous-the Americans as Theodore "He talked about it, but a lot ingness to return to the United live wherever they choose." ness toward the welfare of Branch, 43, and Cheryl Branch, of people tried to talk him out States and asked for permis-In Washington, State Depar­children in the rural work 40, and said they were "experts of it," the elder Branch said. sion to live here as im-tment spokesman Charles Red­force. in the field of mass communi-He said his son had met a Soviet migrants," Gerasimov told man said he had no reason to 
The Tass writer also said, cations" from Pennsylvania. woman in the United States reporters at a government doubt the two Americans had however, that influential forces Branch's father, Clarence who wanted to go back to her news briefing. decided to live in the Soviet in the government and Commu-Branch of Erie, Pa., said his homeland. Gerasimov and the official Union. 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
i~ i§ 
THE PRUDENTIAL i IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
= = 
§= E= 
= i
5 the nation's largest diversified financial services organization 5 is seeking ambitious and energetic individuals for positions in our Comptroller's Department. 
I I
We're looking for the most talented future executives we can 
= = 
~ find for positions in Accounting, Auditing, Information 1 i Systems, Fianancial Reporting, and more! If you have a strong 1 i background in accounting, finance, economics, math, ;I computer science, or liberal arts, and are interested in the 1
! exciting and challenging positions we have to offer, please i ~~~~~~:.our resume to your Career Planning Office as soon as •
1
= 
5 
iii
1 Our Northern New Jersey Offices will be recruiting on campus ; for these positions on Wednesday, February 3, 1988 and we II would love to have a chance to talk with you. i i 
= ~ i = 
i Ifyou have any questions, please contact your Career Planning I
; i
1 Office. ; 
5 5 
5 = 
5im•mmmnnnmmnnnmmnmmnmnmnmm•mm•mnm•mm•m•mnnmnnmmmnm•mm•mmmnm•m•m•m•mmm•mnmnmmnmmlmlmmnnmlmnmllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnmmmmmmllffl 

----·--~ --~---~--o~-----.-------~ 
page 6 





Security Beat 
Sunday, January 17 
6:54 a.m.-A toy chest was found in a snowbank in the Stepan Center parking lot and turned over to Security. 
7:00 p.m.-A Notre Dame employee witnessed a hit and run accident in the Stadium lot and notified Security. With the assistance of South Bend Po­lice, Security was able to apprehend the vehicle and obtain the relevant in­surance information. Damage to the victim's car is estimated at $300.00. 
2:30p.m.-A vending machine in the lower level of the Hesburgh Library was vandalized. 
Monday, January 18 
9:45 a.m.-A Notre Dame employee reported two stop watches missing from the wrestling room of the JACC. Loss is estimated at $35. 

Rioters to be quelled with beatings 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Defense Min­ister Yitzhak Rabin confronted stone-throwing Palestinians in a West Bank refugee camp Tuesday and said the army will use beatings rather than bul­lets to quell riots that began six weeks ago. 
He also said Israel would bar foreign countries or private groups from shipping food to Palestinian refugee camps in the occupied territories. United Nations officials say some camps are short of food be­cause of curfews. 
Talking to reporters and later to Israel Television, Rabin said troops were under orders to use "force, power and blows" to put down violent demonstrations. He used the Hebrew word "makot," which means blows or beatings. 
Elaborating on the policy to an Israel TV reporter, he said soldiers would "prevent them (demonstrations) with force, not fire," and promised the army would leave as soon as order was restored. 
Israeli gunfire has been the No.1 cause of 36 confirmed Pal­estinian deaths in the 6-week­old wave of unrest sweeping the occupied territories. 
Scattered disturbances were reported Tuesday in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Is­rael captured from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East War, but Rabin claimed violent incidents were down ''almost to zero." About 1.5 million Pales­tinians live in the territories. 
Military spokesmen reported "a violent riot" in Mazraa, near the West Bank city of Ramallah. They said a 29-year­old Arab, Azami Jamaa, was hospitalized with a bullet in the chest. 
The defense minister denied there were food shortages in the camps. Soldiers barred a convoy of four food-laden trucks sent by a private Israeli organization from entering the Gaza Strip. 
When Rabin was in the main square of the Jelazoun refugee camp 10 miles north of Jerusalem, a dozen rocks showered onto the street 15 yards away. 
Several reporters saw the in­cident, including a correspon­dent for Israel radio and Asso­ciated Press photographer Eli Hershkovitz, who was hit on the leg by a stone. 
Rabin had been walking 
4:33p.m.-A Grace Hall resident re­ported that his jacket, clothes, and other miscellaneous items were stolen from an unlocked locker in the men's locker room in the Rockne Memorial. His loss is est. at $321. 
5:10 p.m.-A Fisher Hall resident re­ported that his jacket and contents were stolen from the racquetball courts in the Rockne Memorial. His loss is not known. 
7:30p.m.-A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that his jacket and contents were stolen from the racquetball courts in the Rockne Memorial. His loss is est. at $160. 
5:20p.m.-A Lyons Hall resident re­
ported that she lost her high school 
ring in the student section of the 
JACC during the Notre Dame v.s. De­
Paul basketball game. 
7:00p.m.-A South Bend resident re­ported the theft of his wallet from the racquetball courts in the JACC. His loss is est. at $60. 
7:30 p.m.-A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that his leather jacket and con­tents were stolen from the racquetball courts of the Rockne Memorial. 

toward the spot where the Palestinians clustered stones landed, but was not in­around him, complaining in jured. Bodyguards with M-16 Arabic and Hebrew. rifles peered around for the "You've taken a lot of young stone-throwers. people away without a reason,'' 
A motorcade drove Rabin one said. through streets blackened by fires, past walls that had col­Rabin said: "We will use lapsed because stones were force against violence, force ripped out for use as weapons. with wisdom, to restore calm." 
~ 
Whatever the occasion-­§ we'll decorate a cake that's right! 
~ 
-birthdays -anniversaries ~ -victory parties -friendly gatherings § E DELIVERY with V4 or 1!2 sheet cake order§ call 232-8219 ~ 




Do~~R~~NTY MAID t 
In Sears University Park 
BAK,I:: SJ.IOP j
~~«(;h«(;h~~~«Cn~·«Ch«Ch~~-.Q> 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES NEEDS STUDENT ASSISTANCE 
FOR 


Junior Parents Wee~nd 
!February 19, 20, & 21, 1988 
300 Energetic Students Needed for this Traditional Event. 

Notre Dame Students-Saint Mary's Students Holy Cross Students -IUSB Students Sign-up at South Dining Hall Lower Level or Call289-7814 


Waiters, Waitresses, Laborers, Expediters are all needed! 
ADWORKS 
The Observer 

11:15 p.m.-Notre Dame Security ar­rested a South Bend man for driving while intoxicated on Douglas Rd. The driver first attempted to enter campus via St. Mary's Rd. 
Tuesday, January 19 
II :00 a.m.-Six students reported that their cars were vandalized while parked in the D2 lot sometime between 12:30 
a.m. and 9:00a.m. on 1/19/88. The 
taillights of the vehicles were kicked out. 
I:50 p.m.-Two Off-Campus students reported the theft of their wallets from their unlocked lockers in the Rocknt: Memorial. 
I:30 p.m.-A Clay High School hockey player reported the loss of his watch in the Hockey Arena hallway of the JACC. His loss is est. at $75. 
5:15 p.m.-A minor traffic accident was reported in the B 16 lot. There were no injuries and damage was minimal. 
-


The devil delivers a singing telegram to Brother Michael Smith, rector of Flanner Hall on his birthday Tuesday night. The entire dorm honored Smith by singing "Happy Birthday" during Flanner Hall "talent" night. 
Thurs. 9:30-1:00 
DJ's Ann Seifert Tom Tisa Fri. 9:30-2:00 
............Mo.Y.i.e..;........................................................................................ 6i!li.~...Sb.o.rJ....Qf....t:I.Qir.Qf.§....§tg!J.§......at....9.:3.0.... DJ's Marty Crowe after the Greg Harris show 
Sat. 9:30-2:00 Dan Janick
DJ's 
Tom Sloan Sun. $2.00 

---------------------------------~----------­


Viewpoint
page 7 
VVednesday, Janua~ 20, 1988 

Gorbachev's image may blur reality 
Cynicism. Unbelief. Skepticism. A random selection from the nearest thesaurus? Or perhaps this trio of synonyms are words easily applied by many observers to current events. Think about it. The Reagan adminis­tration releases the latest economic fig­ures, indicating yet another decrease in unemployment; meanwhile network newscasters focus on solitary bums sleeping on heating grates in inner cities, hinting darkly about supposed increases in the number of homeless. The administration de-regulates the airliners, leading to more competition; people complain about delays and lost luggage. Television networks proclaim the virtues of their new series ; many remain skeptical of all the sex and vio­lence. The networks put on shows such as "The World of Disney" and "Our House"; nobody watches them. 
Kevin Smant 

guest column 
Ah, but where is all that unbelief when the bald head of Mr. Mikhail Gor­bachev appears? Once again a Soviet leader has taken the West by storm. According to House Speaker Jim Wright, Gorbachev received a letter from him on a recent trip to Moscow (expressing the usual hopes for peace, harmony, etc.) by rolling his eyes heavenward and uttering the Russian equivalent of "Thank God." Jimmy Carter, with his usual intellectual pre­cision, called Gorbachev the "most humanitarian" of the world's leaders 
(sorry, Mother Theresa -maybe next year). Gorby merely got out of his limousine and shook a few hands in Washington, D.C., but that was enough to prompt one woman to gush that he is "a P.R. genius!" Other Americans, prior to the Gorbachev's visit, sent the Soviet entourage keys to the front door of their suburban homes (just dinner invitations, you understand), and even invited them to church socials (don't forget the vodka and borscht -and by the way, Comrade Gorbachev, would you recite the Lord's Prayer for us?) 
Obviously, something is wrong here. Americans can be such a questioning, cynical people at times, yet now we find ourselves awash in naivete. And a care­ful look at the record shows that we need a dose of healthy skepticism con-



P.O. Box Q 
Glee Club thanks NO for support 
Dear Editor: 

As the new semester begins, many people tend to forget some of the im­portant events of the semester past. The confusion over new classes and long lines at the bookstore form a kind of memory block. Well, the Notre Dame Glee Club would like to take a short moment to recollect with the Notre Dame family. 
If you will think way back to Christmas of 1987, you might remem­ber that we performed two concerts on campus: one predominantly for Uni­versity staff and employees at Wash­ington Hall and the other for the stu­dents at Stepan Center. In addition, if you were lucky enough to attend one of these shows you might recall that we took a collection for the South Bend Shelter for the Homeless. After sepa­rating the numerous pennies and crumpled dollar bills, we counted ex­actly $1,416.81, the majority of which was donated at the student concert. 
Doonesbury 
(Who said students are poor?) 
From all of us in the Glee Club, thank you very much. It is comforting to know that so many of you have consideration and generosity for the unfortunate people of the South Bend community. We are lucky to be able to give our Christmas spirit to you with our songs and to them with your donations. Thank you, once again, and we look forward to even better results in 1-988. 
David Lese Treasurer Notre Dame Glee Club January 18, 1988 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of peo­
ple  who  feel  t he i r  
opinions  do  make  a  
difference.  Write  to  P.O.  

Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

5AL, fAJITH Y()(JR. PROVEN 

... ANI/ I fAJANT
PWPt& 5KJU5, I 8131-IGV/3 
YOUTOOPEN

Y()()'RE 7HG MAN FOR 7H& 
7HG FIRST

JOB. I !A/ANT YOU 7lJ GGT 
ONE HERE! 

__-r--~-60/NGON TH/3 80tJTIQUG5 AS 
\.,""''I
500NAS 
P09518l& ... 
I 


Ihe Observer 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary"s College. II does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of the adm1n1stratton of e1ther 1nSt1tut1on The News IS reported as accurately and obJeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nton of the ma1ority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commenlanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the school communtty, and the free express1on of vary1ng op1ntons on campus. through letters, IS encouraged 
cerning Mr. Gorbachev. Take his inter­view with Tom Brokaw on NBC. On the possibility of allowing non-Communist political parties in the USSR: "I see no need for any. other party ... we eliminated the exploitation of man by man." True, only they replaced it with the exploitation of man by a party. Next question: Why the Berlin Wall? "Through West Berlin, a lot was done which caused great harm, both political and economic, to that country (East Germany)." Is he serious? The only "damage" was in offering a vision of freedom which entices 16,000 East Ger­mans per month to flee their socialist utopia. And finally: Why don't you per­mit free emigration? The truth, of course, is that if he did, everyone of sound mind would leave. But of course Gorby couldn't say that. So instead he aggressively argued the superiority of Soviet "social and economic right" to Western-style rights. "For 50-odd years we have had no unemployment," he bragged. He forgot to mention that being unemployed (defined as "parasitism") is punishable as a crime in the USSR. 
Fact is, that while the style of Mr. Gorbachev may be different from his predecessors, the substance remains largely the same. Any "reforms" he attempts will remain within the strait­jacket of Soviet communism. But then that should not surprise us. For Gor­bachev shares an important character­istic with this forebears: He is a Com­munist. He seeks, not peace, but the greatest advantage possible for his Communist empire, as all Soviet leaders have sought. Cold War rhetoric, you say? Remember: 110,000 Soviet troops remain in Afghanistan, the same number as were there at this time last year. The INF Treaty? It gives the soviets a clear conventional-arms su­periority in Europe. His personal charm? But the record cited above shows that, while his smile may be broader, Gorbachev's positions differ little from Stalin or Khrushchev. It's been said before; it must be said again -the West must not allow the chimeric vision of peace to blind its view of the Soviet adversary. For an adversary of the United States Mr. Gorbachev will surely remain. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in the Department of History and a regu­lar Viewpoint columnist. 

Garry Trudeau 
71-f&PeACH /rfARBl& 5J.I()(JLJ) tj}/011./ OFF TH& PRIJ[)()CT UN& 
BtAUTIRJU.Y! (' 
/~'~ 

Editorial Board 

Quote of the Day 
"In every real man a child is hidden who wants to play." 
Friedrich Nietzche 

Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Business Manager ........................... John Ox rider Advertising Design Manager..... . . ...... Molly Killen Advertising Manager .................... Steve Clark Production Manager. . .......... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager ............................Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton 



Accent 
VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988
page 8 

Predictions 1988: 
Dorks, yaks and evil alien playmates 

If you're wondering whether I'm implying that Michael Jackson looks like Liz Taylor's evil alien playmate you can stop wonder­ing. I am. 
Whitney Houston, who figured in my prediction about the entertainment industry, also figures in my fifth predic­tion. Whitney's squeaky clean image will be shattered when she's spotted in the back seat of a '78 Impala with Spuds McKenzie. An angry crowd will lynch Spuds, but Whitney will escape and go on to write "Saving All My Spuds For You," which will stay at number one on the charts for an amazing nine weeks. Watch for it. 
My sixth prediction combines my first and fourth predictions. Liz Taylor's evil alien playmate will enter the presidential elec­tion as the democratic can­didate for president. Because of the alien's amazing likeness to its new husband, Michael Jackson, it will beat out George 
Bush on Nov. 4. The same people who lynched Spuds McKenzie after finding him in the Impala with Whitney will be terrified when they realize that America is being governed by 
Liz Taylor's evil alien playmate. They'll attempt to assassinate the president, but Whitney will 
intervene with an army of fifty­
foot pit bull robots. At this point my mind gets cloudy and 
I can't see what happens next. Anyway, it's going to be a bad 
scene. Watch for it. 
Speaking of clouded minds, mine feels like green jello. Nobody said being a psychic was easy. As I've revealed, 1988 will be a year marked by yaks, sex and food, Whitney Houston and Liz Taylor's ever­present evil alien playmate. In other words, it's going to be about thirty times better than 1987 any way you look at it. It couldn't be much worse. 

1
987. Yech. Another rotten (rumor has it that this dictator­year in a crummy decade. voted-best-Yoda-look-alike will No, wait. That's too bitter. Let's kick the bucket soon and this see. Hmmmm, 1987. a bad is sure to be good for lots of year for politicians and yuppies laughs), Jon Bon Jovi (gives and AIDS patients and pit bulls love a bad name and if all you and... Naaaah, too preachy. need is love then all you need How about "1987; another year is a bad name. Understand?) down the toilet." That's much and me for writing columns better. Now on to 1988 and that give journalism a bad this columnist's fearless predic­name. Example: this column tions for the next three right here. hundred and 
second fearless 

Kris Murphy 
Altered 
As anyone who read a head­line or turned on the TV news in 1987 knows, this last year was the Year of the Bimbo. Fawn Hall, Donna Rice and Tammy Faye Baker were the most visible of the obnoxious women who slept and lied their way to the top. I predict that 1988 will be the Year of the Dork. Most probable candidate for Top Dork of 1988 is George Bush who will probably become President on Nov. 4. This col­umnist will not pretend to be an extremely well-informed po­litical commentator, but he does have the strong feeling that a former vice president named after a stubby lawn plant is well on his way to be­coming King Dork. Other probable Dorks for 1988 in­clude the Ayatollah Khomeni for 1988 is the pit bull as the hot pet to own. Last year was a tense year for everyone involved, and vicious, man-eating dogs just kind of fit in with the general mood. This year will be a much more mel­low year, and, therefore, the hot pet to own in 1988 will be a yak. That's right, a yak. Yaks are hairy, four-legged animals that have big noses and live in the Himalayas or the Andes or some remote mountain range like those. They're lovable, easy to feed (grass, garbage) and great with kids. On the bad side, they're expensive (logical when you consider how expensive it is to ship a half ton animal from Mongolia to Chicago), and they smell funny. Real funny. So be smart and buy a yak now before they're all gone or all turned into yak meat or whatever happens to yaks. If you're willing to wait about six months there should be an authorized yak dealer in most metropolitan areas. 
My third foolish, er, fearless prediction for 1988 involves the movie industry. With more Americans than ever dieting and eating the right foods, etc., food will become an ex­tremely hot topic in popular culture, especially in movies. With Americans seeing less food on their tables, they'll 
want to experience more food in entertainment. Therefore, you'll see less sex and violence in movies in 1988 and more sex and food. Films like "Fatal Pasta Attraction" and "Last Cream Bun in Paris" will attract huge crowds with their potent mix of raunchy sex and steamed vegetables. 
The culinary craze will also spill over into the other enter­tainment industries with the next Whitesnake album tenta­tively titled "Is This Love Or Just Another Bowl of Soggy Frosted Flakes?" Whitney Hous­ton will re-record her huge hit "Saving All My Love For You" as "Saving All My Doughnuts For You." Watch for it. 
My fourth prediction for 1988 may sound familiar. I predict that Michael Jackson will wed Liz Taylor's evil alien playmate. Fans will be uanble to tell Mi­chael and his new bride apart. 



Urban Plunge experience: 
the fall of a hero 

NAN SAUER 
accent writer 
T
he expectations that I had built up prior to going on my Urban Plunge were slightly different than my actual experi­ences. One experience in par­ticular affected me beyond just the "social awareness" that the Plunge was intended to pro­vide. I had expected to experi­ence poverty in my own hometown, to see firsthand just what It was like to be poor. I thought that I'd be somewhat of a detatched contributor, hel­ping people out, getting a feel for what life was like for them. 
Many of the students that attended my high school were from the inner city of Fort Wayne; This part of town is not exactly what you would call the high rent district. In fact, some of the families that live in the downtown area survive on in­comes that are at or below poverty level. For. my Plunge, headed to St. Mary's Church, located In the heart of this downtown area. I realized that, while I was there, it would be quite possible for me to work with one of the inner city resi­dents who had attended my high school. What I didn't ex­pect. though, was to see a guy like Tim walk through the doors of the Soup Kitchen at St. Mary's Church. 

At almost every high school, there is one athlete that the entire student body regards as a sort of god. During my fresh­man year at North Side High School, that athlete was Tim. Tim led the football team to a conference championship, playing on both the offensive and defensive squads. He was the fast-breaking floor leader for the basketball team, and no one could beat him in the 100 meter dash in track and field. It would be an off week if Tim's picture wasn't in one of the local papers at least once. "That kid's got a great future ahead of him," my dad would always say to me. 
Tim was, needless to say, heavily recruited for football by several major colleges, includ­ing his eventual choice, Indiana University at Bloomington. The whole school shared in Tim's excitement. After he graduated, I didn't follow his career too closely, but I assumed that he was breaking Jots of records at I.U. 
I can't exactly explain just how I felt when I saw Tim walking toward the door of the St. Mary's Soup Kitchen. This was not a situation that I was prepared to deal with. I could tell he was high on something, and somehow I didn't think that many professional football players needed to make use of a soup kitchen. I thought that perhaps this guy just looked like Tim. After all, I hadn't seen him for about seven years. There was no mistaking the name that he wrote down on the sign-up sheet, though. God, how could this have hap­pened? 
At first, I was really mad at him. I couldn't believe that he had thrown away a chance to really make it. How dare he waste such a privilege? Lots of the guys that I had known at North Side would have jumped at the chance to play football for any college team, let alone a Big Ten school like Indiana. 
As the day went on, my anger turned to sadness. I was sad for Tim. Maybe he didn't "blow It" as I had thought at first. Maybe things just didn't fall into place for him as they had for other people. Maybe he had just had a few more un­lucky breaks. 
God, it must be so hard for him to think about what could have been. There's probably not a day that goes by that he doesn't think back on what it felt like to be a hero --and what reality feels like now. By the glaze that covered his eyes, I didn't think it felt too good. 
I thought about Tim during the remainder of my stay at St. Mary's. I've been thinking about him ever since. The more that I think about Tim's situation, though, the more that I end up thinking about my own. How can I have the nerve to sit here at Notre Dame and complain about how much work I have this week. and basically whine about how rough my life is? I am so damn lucky. Everybody here is. It's just too bad that I wasn't able to realize that fact until I saw how some people -­people who were once an inspi­ration to others --can have their lives turn out for the worse. 
Tim was a good guy in high school. He was always trying to be the best he could be. The only reason that he was the one receiving soup and I was the one handing it to him was that, up until then, I had been lucky and he hadn't. It's true that he might have made some mistakes along the way, but the simple fact is that I could very well have made the same mistakes and ended up out of college, without a job, and without anywhere to turn. 
I was prepared to see desti­tute people on this Urban Plunge. I wasn't prepared to see Tim among those destitute people. 
I guess that if you asked me what I "learned" from all of this, I'd have to say that I've learned to be more apprecia­tive of my own situation --and also a bit more understanding of Tim's. I could say that I know exactly how he feels, but I don't. What I can say Is that I know that poverty is not some­thing that just affects other people. It affects Tim, and it has affected me. The shock of seeing him there was so over­whelming that I will no longer be able to simply acknowledge the existence of poverty without feeling compelled to do some­thing about it. Until last week. poverty wasn't something that was real to me. Now it is al­most too real. 

VVednesday, Janua~ 20, 1988 

Freshman guard Karen Robinson has established herself as the heir apparent to Irish senior Mary Gavin on the women's basketball team. Robinson's play Is one reason Notre Dame Is off to a quick start, and Brian O'Gara features her at right. 
The Observer page 9 
Freshman starter 


Robinson sparks Irish 
By BRIAN O'GARA 
Assistant Sports Editor 
If Notre Dame women's bas­ketball coach Muffet McGraw was worried about looking for someone to try to fill the big . shoes of senior point guard Mary Gavin next year, she needed to look no further than Gavin's neighborhood court. 
It is there where freshman Karen Robinson, like Gavin before her, sharpened her bas­ketball skills before coming to play for McGraw this year. 
"It's funny because Mary lives right up the street from me down in Wildwood (New Jersey)," said Robinson. "My family has a business on the Boardwalk there, so I've known her since I was young. I wasn't good friends with her or anything, but we played bas­ketball around the corner all the time." 
Now, a few years later, Rob­inson and Gavin team up in Notre Dame's backcourt and run the offense for the 10-4 Irish, who head to Chicago tonight to face North Star rival DePaul. 
Robinson's quickness led J.l,1cGraw to move JUnior Diondra Toney to the forward spot in order to start Robinson at guard. 
"Karen's biggest assets are her quickness and speed," said McGraw. "Having her at guard with Mary helps us play the up­tempo game that we want to play." 

With Gavin, who holds Notre Dame career records in assists and steals, at point guard, Rob­inson jumped into the off-guard position in the preseason and has started every game of the year. 
"At first I didn't know I would start," said Robinson, "but I thought I could get playing time. I was recruited as a point guard, but there's no question Mary Gavin is our point guard. I played the two­position before, but not much. 
"Coach McGraw came in with a fast-break style and that's how we played in high school, so this type of game is good for me. I moved to the two, but the way we get up the floor I don't have to wait for the ball." 
Robinson was recruited by former head coach Mary DiS­tanislao, another native of the Garden State, who resigned last spring. Along came McGraw, whose fast-breaking, pressure-defense style of bas­ketball with Gavin and Robin­son at the wheel has the Irish a possible contender for the NCAA Tournament. 
"I found out about the coach­ing change in the summer," recalled Robinson. "I knew a little about the problems last year with some girls quitting and all the losses. But I picked the school because of the school, not because of basket­ball or Mary D." 
At Paul VI High School, Rob­inson was named South Jersey Player of the Year for 1987 and earned all-America honors from USA Today. Last summer she participated in the U.S. Olympic Festival in Chapel Hill, N.C., where she was a member of the East team. 
Last Saturday in Notre Dame's 81-62 win over Syracuse, Robinson scored in double figures for the fourth time this season with 10 points, including a 6-of-6 performance at the free-throw line, where she leads the Irish at 80 per­cent. 
"Karen helps me out a lot," said Gavin of her heir apparent at the point, "especially when we're playing against teams that play a pressure defense and we're trying to bring the ball up." 
While Robinson and Gavin break the press, 6-4 junior cen­ter Heidi Bunek and 6-2 senior Sandy Botham will battle the Blue Demons' top scorer Diana Vines in the paint. Vines leads the North Star Conference with 
24.0 points and 11.6 rebounds per game. 
"We really need to shut her down," said McGraw of Vines. "It'll be a very physical game." 
1'llle a.....HolfW Dame offlce, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, ..:c:ept11 claullled .tw.tl8ing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. n.a.....s.1nt M8ry's olftc:e, located on the third noor of ~Collge Cent••.cc:epts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. Deadllna tor next-dlly claallledsls 3 p.m. All claulflads muat
Classifieds be pn!pald, either In pen1011 or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents par live ce.r.ctersp.-day. 
LOST:  GREY  SKI  JACKET  at  Rat's  Country  Harvester  has  put  Christmas  Anyone  interested  in  learning  more  Quote for Brian  JUNIORS ...... CHICAGO  
NOTICES  house last Thursday night. If found call Jerry at £1728. No questions asked and  away and the new items are here for you to enjoy. Sale on holiday items are at a  about, or working with Jack Kemp's Presidential Campaign should call Dave  Mark S: tts like a soap opera over there John: Yeah, I know, I live In hell  TRIP ........ JUNIORS  
reward altered.  great bargin price. Lafortune Basement  at 2001.  Mark: And I live across from hell  
TYPING 2n-11131 or 237·11149 MARISSA'S TYPING 2n·2724 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. TYPING AVAILABLE 287...C082 NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block oH NO Ave). Open dally 10·5:30 WORDPROCESSING· TYPING 272-8827  ............................................. LOST: Chopard Watch of great sen· timental value. Lost around the library or Breen-Phlllips. Watch has a maroon band and a glass face. PLEASE call 1325 if found. LOST:A gold high echool ring wllh blue atone at b118ketball game Sat. Namelngraved I nelda. II found, pleaM e~~ll Dorothy at 2866. R-ard ollared. ................................................................ FOR RENT ROOMATE NEEDED! NOTRE DAME A APTS. $125 MO. QUIETI PLEASE CON·  Come check it outl Caribbean Cruise·50'4N&Disney·300N $160 No vacation left-must use in 88·Call Mark 259·981814317(after 5) ................................................................ TICKETS I NEED 1 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET TO THE KANSAS BASKETBALL GAME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1661. I NEED DAYTON GA'S OR STUD TIX DOUG 2163 DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA'S FOR KANSAS GAMEIII PLEASE CALL PAUL  POOL PARTY POOL PARTY POOL PARTY WEDNESDAY AT ROLF'S AQUATIC CENTER, 8·11PM WATER VOLLEYBALL WATER POLO DIVING MUSIC FOOD INNEATUBES THANK YOU ST. JUDE THANK YOU ST. JUDE THANK YOU ST. JUDEIII akl VAIL during Spring BrMk a meeting will be held lor !hoM ln-ted-Wedneaday 111 Zahm Hall, 7:00pm Come aee a 23 minute Vall vldeo-tepe directed by Warren Miller To aecure a spot, pleaM bring an $80.00 non-refundable deposit  Thank you St. Jude for the answering of special Intentions! Top Ten Ru110na Why to go lo Vall lor Spring Bruk 1. the akllng 2. 80 bare and real8ursnta 3. outdoor heeled pool 4. the powder 5. condoa only SOOyda. from IIIIa 8. the women 7. the beck bowla 8. the men 9. II you don't go, you'll only be one yur older when you do 10.Ita more fun than an NDSMC atudent Ia allowed to have Pow·wow quote £1: 'I'll never forget that : It was hugel" Well, Susie, just how huge WAS It? DB  JUNIORS ......... CHICAGO TRIP ........... JUNIORS Sign up In the Junior Clue office Wed., Thurs., & Fri., 3-5 pm. Pay 511 when you algn up. JUNIORS ............ CHICAGO TRIP ........... JUNIORS W.M. AND J.G. THANKS FOR LUNCH. WOULD EITHER OF YOU LIKE TO MOTHER MY CHILDREN? LOVE ME To the girl with the sparkling light-blue aeltzer water eyes, you met four athletes returning from hoops. I was the guy with the N.D. sweatshirt. Your smile made my day. Thanka I Respond here for future engagements.  
TYPING SERVICE 2511-2334  TACT SAM DEPIZZOL AT 271-0804 Partially furnished ranch 3 bedrooms ·2  AT X 1750. WILL PAY BIG $11. Need 2 GA's and 1 student, or 4 GA's  DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA  No more phyaiCII crecka... promiM. TSO  FRESHMAN SKI SUGARLOAF  
................................................................l LOST/FOUND } FOUND: Thick gold necklace in Declo Faculty Hall lobby on Wednesday, Jan· uary 13th. Call Ted at 2387 to claim. .......................................... LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT· lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I AEALL Y NEEDIIII  baths washer-dryer-oven-stove· refrlgerator-softner great neibourhood, off Angela blvd. ideal for 3 students call 232·3816 BEDROOM HOME FOR RENT, NEAR CAMPUS.27Z-8306 OFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288· 0955' 255-3684 ................................................................ WANTED ]  for Kansas game. call Bill 1805 Will pay cash andk>r trade UCLA Gas for 2 Kansas Gas or stud. call 2287 NEED 2 TIX FOR KANSAS B·BALL CALL PETE 233·9880 HELP I NEED KANSAS TICKETS CALL MIKE AT X1597 PLEASE I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR KANSAS GAME. CALL MARY 288·5818.  SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA-ROUND TAIP,7 NIGHTS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS 3382 NOWI I NEED A AIDE TO INDY OR BLOOMINGTON, FRIDAY 1122 CALL TONY £1209 GUITARIST SEEKS TO FORM BAND. LOOKING FOR DRUMMER, SINGER AND BASSIST. CALL CHUCK AT 288 5447 IF ANYONE HAS THE BOOK CATHOUCISM FOR SALE PLEASE CALL X3836  The Good Luck Rodeo Good times had by all. A shot and a beer could lead to your fall. The two step was fun or was It the three? I hate keaping count now just where were we? I'll ask Ken the Cowboy He's sure to know . The parfect dance partner II only he'd grow. Spin mel I heard as we rounded the floor. Not once or twice, but more more more morel  FRESHMAN SKI SUGARLOAF Sign up in the Fresh. Glasa Office TODAY SUGARLOAF $180 inc. meals,lranspo.,lodglng,lesaon,llft tlx Sign up In Fresh. Glasa OH. betw. 2-4pm 2nd Fl. LaFortune SMC & NO FROSH SKI SUGARLOAF -EL HOMBRE MAS PROMISCUO EN  
LOST -DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY DISK, SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD LOST!// LOST MY FAVORITE RED CAP SATURDAY NIGHT. IT WAS LOST EITHER ON PORTAGE AVE. OR AT CAMPUS VIEW. IF YOU FIND IT, PLEASE CALL STEPHEN AT 3018. THERE IS A SMALL REWARD IF FOUND I ............................................................... LOST: bright purple umbrella wllh car· loon on aides. long with broken handle. toat before break. Sentimental value. PlEASE call lor1·2516, rm 330 Howard. I lost a red wool sweater In a party on 1Oth floor grace. It you have It pleaae call John·2464 LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIP. BROWN·  HIRINGI Govamment joba -your 81'811. $15,000-$88,000. C.ll (802) 836-8865, Ext. 8262. DRIVERS NEEDED. START AT $3.75. INSURANCE & BONUS PLAN. PART TIME OR FULL TIME, EVENING HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON AT GOD­FATHER PIZZA, 52920 U.S. 31 N. Babyalttars needed to work per your ech. tor delightful 2 11.1 yr. girl. Need own trsnap & like C81a. $2.50 plua hr. 287-3315. WANTED: Female roommate to share apt. at Turtle Creek. Call Karen for info 2n-s195 ................................................................ CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL· LEY FOR APPUCATION (818) 244· 5835.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANIWIATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914-3111-4224 ATTENTION FORMER MALE HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga· nize a Howard gathering during the hall socials after the JPW dinner. If you would be interested in attending, and we know you will, call Kevin Walsh at X3609 and sign up. We need everybody signed up by January 27 and the sooner you sign up the better, so call now I Also, whenever you see other Howard guys tell them about this. Thanks. Sell old texts for $$$. Pandoras ·808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open dally  DAVID-COMMUNICATIONMIGMT maj: Do You recall New Yaara Eve In Dallu, TX Ill the Feat And Cool? A certain SMU Mualc Therapy mej. • mTANIA Cordobea ·thlnka you are one In a million and would llka to keep In touch. PluM Cllll me at 2143600589 attar Spm E.S.T. I need a stud or GA to the Kansas game on Sat. Please help me out. Call Ken at 2165. ................................................................ WORK IN JAPAN Individual• with a degrM endbr expe­rience In: electronic:~~ & electrical engineering, TESOL, llngulatlca, pher· macy, aecurtue.-finance, bualneu managament,1'8111Htate, anglllMrlng, edvertlalng, telecommunlcllllona, eduC811on, elemen18ry eduCIItlon and the travel lnduatry lntereated In leech· lng Engllah lor one yur In Japan to employee• of major corpora­tlon.,governmont mlnllllrlea should  Three girls on a pickup is that whet I see? We know one belongs which one could It be? The Dunkin Donut parking lot will hold the ne>Ct dance. The Disco Duck is in just give It a chance. A fun time It was we will never forget. Not thai I'll lei you on thai you can bell In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth and the bullet, and He saw that It was good. ··the Book of Stu 1:1·2 TOASTMASTERS! NUDE STRIPPERS! TOASTMASTERS! 7:30 223 HAYES HEALY ALL WELCOME INQUIRING MINDS WITH TIGHT BUNS: WHAT (OR WHO) DO YOU THINK IS  LAS DORMITORIOS Y A FUERA EN LA UNIVERSIDAD UN FEUZ VEIN· TIOOS ANOS .UNA CHICA CAN QUIEN HAS SALIDO. (PERO PIENSO QUE NO TE DA MUCHA CLAVE) P.S.-TODAVIA LE DEBES A CHRIS UNA BE81DA. P.P.S.· GRACIAS GERARD Y CISCO Y B. FATHER RICHARD MCBRIEN WILL CELEBRATE MASS FOR THEOLOGY MAJORS AND MINORS ON SUNDAY, JAN. 24 AT 11AM IN THE CHAPEL OF ST. EDWARD'S HALL. BRUNCH WILL FOLLOW. ···uz-· Julll want.d to wtah you 1 happy 11th (you're getting lflare). I hope you and Mo celebrate accordingly lhla weekend. Wlah I could be lflare but -·n m11ka up lor It later. lt'a bMn a grMt yur and Ita getting better (lor both of u•l) Yrrrrr1rrwwlf ,...,Hr-1 Love, Annette  -·  
RIMMED  GLASSES  IN  TAN  HARD·  10-5:30. Also save $ on used books.  wrl18 to:  UP WITH THE LIME JELLO? THE BRA  
BACKED CASE. IF FOUND CALL 4559 OR 2698.  PLEASE  FOR SALE  THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS  International Education SarvlcH Shin Tal110 Bldg., 10.7, Dogenzaka 2·  PARTY ANIMALS WANT TO KNOW!  ATTENTION!  
THE NECKING LEATHERFLY'S  chome  BOB KELLY  STEVE SONNEK  
LOST:SEIKO  WATCH  with  sliver  and  THOSE FECKING NEATHERLY'S  Shlbuye-ku, Tokyo 150, Japan  I  HOPE  you  have  been  training  for  
gold band white lace. sometime before  MACINTOSH  BOOK  EXTERNAl  DISK  NO  MATTER  HOW  YOU  SPELL  IT,  Information on the poaltlon will  be  SUPER  BOWL  '8811  GET  UGLY  you  turns 22 today  
break.  HS  grad.  preaent··BIIIIGG  DRIVE  FOR  SALE.  CALL  JOHN  AT  WE'RE  STILL  AT  CHIPS  TONIGHT,  Mnt lifter receiving a dellllled reaume  loaerll  
AEWARDIII Call Mike, 2112.  2093.  JAN. 20.  and photograph.  Happy Birthday Gordie!  


JaQ_uary 19_,_ 1_9_8_~ The Observer page 10 


Sports Wednesday 
Scoreboard . 
Results for Dec. 9 through Jan 19 
Basketball 
Men DePaul 73, Notre Dame 69 (OT) Notre Dame 88, Valparaiso 49 Notre Dame 91, St. Joseph's 70 Notre Dame 64, St. Bonaventure 49 Notre Dame 68, LaSalle 59 Lafayette 83, Notre Dame 68 Notre Dame 62, Marquette 44 Notre Dame 85, Yale 59 DePaul 77, Notre Dame 71 
Women Notre Dame 100, Oakland 51 Notre Dame 86, St. Ambrose 73 Notre Dame 93, Valparaiso 60 Indiana 62, Notre Dame 59 Notre Dame 75, Fairfield 62 Villanova 56, Notre Dame 55 Virginia 79, Notre Dame 59 Notre Dame 83, Miami68 Notre Dame 89, No. illinois 66 Notre Dame 81, Syracuse 64 
Hockey Notre Dame 13, Dayton 3 Notre Dame 11, Dayton 1 Notre Dame 9, Arizona 5 Notre Dame 10, Arizona 0 Notre Dame 6, Army 1 Notre Dame 8, Army 4 
Fencing Men Notre Dame over Pennsylvania, 15-12 Women Notre Dame over Pennsylvania, 11-5 
Wrestling Notre Dame 26, Illinois State 14 Alamosa 19, Notre Dame 16 Notre Dame 31, Air Force 9 
Swimming 

Men Notre Dame 141 , Northern Illinois 120 Notre Dame 119.5, Western Ontario 86.5 
Women Northern Illinois 139, Notre Dame 127 Western Ontario 109, Notre Dame 102 
Sports Cale-ndar · 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Women's Basketball at DePaul 

Thursday Men's Basketball vs. PENNSYLVANIA Wrestling at Michigan State 
Friday Hockey vs. NORTH DAKOTA STATE Wrestling vs. CLARION STATE Women's Tennis at Gopher Doubles 
Saturday Men's Basketball vs. KANSAS Hockey vs. NORTH DAKOTA STATE 
Basket~~~~ Top 20 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Arizona (45) 16-1 1,202 
2. No. Carolina (1 O) 13-1 1,147 
3. Temple (5) 12·0 1,047 
4. Kentucky (1) 12·1 1,018 
5. Purdue 15-1 963 6. Pittsburgh 13-1 945 7. Michigan 14-1 857 8. UNLV 14-1 706 
9. Duke 10-2 649 
10. Iowa State 15-2 615 11. Oklahoma 14-2 602 12. Brigham Young 12-0 480 13. Illinois 13-3 385 14. Syracuse t2-4 372 t5. Georgetown tt-3 252 
16. Kansas 12-4 207 
t7. Wyoming t2-3 t82 
t8. Texas-EI Paso t5-2 t76 
19. No. Carolina St. t0-2 t64 20. Iowa tt-5 t65 
Others receiving votes: Auburn t38, Rorida 96, New Mexico 9t, Villanova 74, Southern Mississippi 55, Bradley 48, Maryland 41, Georgia Tech 27, Kansas State t3,1ndiana 11, Boise State tO, DePaul 10, Georgia tO, Arkansas 7. Richmond 7, Old Dominion 5, St. John's 5, LSU 4, Missouri 4, Rhode Island 4, Virginia Tech 4, Memphis State 3, So. Carolina 2, SMU 2. Utah 2, Louisville 1, Loyola (Calif.) t, Xavier (Ohio) t. 
Leading Scorers 
NBA Scoring Leaders 
G FG FT Pet. Pis. Avg. Jordan,Chi. 3441329t ·t120 32.9 Bird, Bos. 3t 352 t65 . 903 29.t Barkley, Phil. 353343t0 -t009 28.8 Wilkins, All. 3t 33t t90 859 27.7 Aguirre, Dall. 3t 3t9 t77 840 27.t Drexler, Port. 34 332 208 875 25.7 Ellis, Sea. 36 373 t25 9t4 25.4 
K. Malone, Utah 35 334 2t3 88t 25.2 English, Denv. 36 374 t52 900 25.0 McDaniel, Sea. 33 323 ttB 769 23.3 Theus, Sacr. 33 286 t56 733 22.2 Dantley, Detr. 30 2t8 226 662 22.t Thorpe, Sacr. 35 284 t9t 759 2t.7 Cummings, Milw. 28 240 t 07 587 21 .0 
Women's Tennis at Gopher Doubles Indoor Track at Indiana TAG and Kodak Invitational Men's and Women's Swimming at Bos­ton College Fencing at Appleton, Wise. 
Sunday Women's Basketball at Michigan State Men's Tennis at Northwestern Men's and Women's Swimming at Prov­idence Women's Tennis at Gopher Doubles 
Tuesday 
Women's Basketball at Marquette 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty women's college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Iowa (58) 12-0 1,272 
2. Louisiana Tech (5) 13-0 1,202 
3. Auburn (1) 14-1 1,164 
4. Tennessee 12-2 1,075 
5. Texas 14-2 1,023 6. Mississippi 14-0 960 7. Virginia 13-1 900 8. Ohio State 10-3 732 
9. Long Beach St. 8-3 714 10. Rutgers 9-3 669 11. Stanford 14-1 592 12. Washington 11-2 569 
13. Duke 13-2 499 
t4. Maryland tt-3 437 t5. Georgia t2-4 393 t6. Southern Cal 9-3 273 t7. Western Kentucky t2-3 257 t8. Montana t3-0 264 t9. UNLV tt-3 t7t 20. Wake Forest t3-t 6t 
Others receiving votes: James Madison 50, LSU 37, Stephen F. Austin 28, New Orleans 26, La Salle 17, Oklahoma St. 17, Nebraska t6, DePaul 11, Mic­higan St. 11, Georgia Tech 4, Houston 4, Notre Dame 3, Bowling Green 2, Old Dominion 2, San Diego St. 2, Tennessee-Chattanooga 2, Appalachian St. t, George Washington t, Illinois St. t, New Mexico St. 1. 
IH Basketball 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BASKETBALL 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pasquerilla West  3  0  t.OOO  
Lewis  2  0  t.OOO  .5  
Lyons  2  t  .667  t  
Howard  t  t  .500  t.5  
Farley  t  t  .500  t.5  
Pasquerilla East  t  2  .333  2  
Breen-Phillips  t  2  .333  2  
Badin  t  2  .333  2  
Walsh  0  3  .000  3  

Big Ten Standings 
BIG TEN STANDINGS Conference Overall 
W L W L 
Purdue 5 0 t5 t Michigan 3 t t4 2 Illinois 3 1 t3 3 Iowa 2 2 tt 5 Ohio State 2 2 9 5 Wisconsin 2 2 8 6 Indiana t 2 9 5 Northwestern t 3 6 8 Michigan State t 3 6 8 Minnesota 0 3 6 7 
Wednesday's Games Michigan State at Purdue Minnesota at Northwestern 
Thursday's Games Wisconsin at Michigan Illinois at Iowa 
Saturday's Games Purdue at Louisville Ohio State at Minnesota Northwestern at Illinois Dartmouth at Iowa 
Sunday's Game Michigan at Indiana 


Through Saturday 

PLAYER G-S MIN-AVG David Rivers 13·13 477-37 
/.· 

Mark Stevenson 12·10 359--30 Keith Robinson 13-4 316·24 Gary Voce 11-11 30].28 Saan Conner 13-3 235--18 Joe Fredrick 7-3 106·15 Jamere Jackson 13--10 305·23 
-~ 
Scott Paddock 13·11 275·21 Ttrn Singleton 12-0 122-10 Kevin Ellery 11·0 77-7 Steve Nicgorski 7-0 15-2 Tony Jackson 4-0 19-5 Chris Nanni 6-0 12-2.0 NOTRE DAME 13--13 2625·40 OPPONENTS 13--13 2625·40 
FG-FGA 
101-232 62·117 51-84 37-78 27-71 13--19 22-48 24-40 12-19 

8-15 
2-5 
2--3 
1·5 


lnterhall Hockey 
GOLD DIVISION 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
Grace  2  0  t.OOO  
Dillon  1  0  t.OOO  .5  
Morrissey  t  .500  t  
Off Campus  t  .500  t  
St. Ed'&tloly C  t  .500  t  
Keenan  0  1  .000  t.5  
Flanner  0  2  .000  2  

NBA Standings~ 
Eastern Confarance 
Atlantic Division 

w L Pet. GB Boston 26 tO .722 Philadelphia t8 t7 .5t4 7.5 Washington t2 2t .364 t2.5 New York t3 23 .36t t3 New Jersey 8 27 .229 17.5 Central Division 
Atlanta 27 tO .730 Detroit 21 t1 .656 3.5 Chicago 21 t5 .583 5.5 Milwaukee 19 15 .559 6.5 Indiana t7 18 .486 9 Cleveland 17 t9 .472 9.5 
Tuesday's Results Atlanta t 06, Chicago 94 San Antonio ttO, Milwaukee t04 Houston at Sacramento, late Dallas at Portland, late 
NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division GA t46 150 t76 t47 t60 
w  L  T  GF  
Montreal  25  t2  tO  t75  
Boston  27  t6  5  t78  
Buffalo  20  19  7  t49  
Hartford  18  20  7  t38  
Quebec  t9  21  3  t57  
Plllrlck Division  
Philadelphia  23  t7  6  158  
N.Y. Islanders  22  tB  5  tBt  
Washington  22  2t  5  t66  
New Jersey  2t  2t  5  t62  
Pittsburgh  t8  20  9  t82  
N.Y. Rangers  t7  24  6  180  

t62 t64 t53 t73 t88 tBO 
Tuesday's Results Edmonton 4, Quebec 4 tie Washington 6, New Jersey 4 Pittsburgh 6, New York Islanders 4 Hartford 6, Minnesota 3 Washington 3, St. Louis 0 
BLUE DIVISION 

w L  Pet. GB  
Alumni  2 0  t.OOO  
Cavanaugh  t 0  t.OOO  .5  
Pangborn  t t  .500  t  
Sorin  t t  .500  1  
Stanford  t t  .500  1  
Fisher  0 2  .0  2  
Zahm  0 2  .0  2  
Wutem Conferenc e  
Midwest Division  
w L  Pet.  GB  
Dallas  22 tt  .667  
Houston  20 t5  .57t  3  
Denver  2t t6  .568  3  
Utah  t6 t9  .457  7  
San Antonio  t5 t9  .441  7.5  
Sacramento  9 26  .422  9  
Paclflc Division  
L.A. Lakers  28 7  .800  
Portland  2t 13  .6t8  6.5  
SeaHie  22 15  .595  7  
Phoenix  t3 2t  .382  14.5  
L.A. Clippers  9 26  .257  19  
Golden State  6 27  .t82  21  

Wednesday's Games Phoenix at Boston Golden State at New Jersey Washington at Philadelphia Detroit at Utah Indiana at L.A. Clippers New York at Seattle 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Ovlslon 

w  L  T  GF  GA  Pta  
Edmonton  27  t4  7  2t6  161 61  
Calgary  27  13  5  222  164  59  
Winnipeg  t9  20  6  166 tn  44  
Vancouver  t6  24  7  t60  t72  39  
Los Angeles  14  28  5  t72  220 33  
Norris Dlvtal on  
Detrort  23  t7  5  1St  15t 51  
Chicago  t9  24  3  t65  t89  4t  
St. Louis  tB  23  5  t46tt62  41  
Minnesota  t4  26  8  t57  t95  36  
Toronto  t4  25  7  t69  t90  35  

Pta. 60 59 47 43 41 
52 49 49 47 45 
40 
Wednesday's Games Boston at Buffalo Pittsburgh at Chicago 
Friday, Jaooary 29. 1988 Joyce ACC 9:00 pm -4:00 am 
Contact You! Halll\eple5elltative Sponsored By Non-ViiiSity Athletics 
P-l•hfiiSt,.,..c...tySpoeJIII/Iymplts 

........ 
' . 

VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Lyons stops Howard by 10 Sports Briefs 
By JEFF HEILERT Sports Writer 
The women's Interhall bas­ketball season ended its third week this past Sunday night with some fine displays of indi­vidual and team talent. 
In a game full of action and intensity, Lyons upped its record to 2-1 with a 44-34 win over Howard, now 1-1. 
Howard kept the game close early by capitalizing at the free-throw line. Howard guard Lauren Romeo was able to con­tinuously penetrate the lane, either drawing a foul or dishing to Elise Seguin for the short jump shot. 
With Howard trailing by one at the end of the first quarter, Lyons began to pick up the tempo. Employing a 1-2-2 full court trap, it was able to cut off the penetration of the Howard guards. 
Offensively, Gretchen Kraus began to take over for Lyons. She finished as the game's leading scorer with 12 points. Kraus helped Lyons go on a 10-4 run and take a 20-13 halftime lead. 

Both teams traded baskets early in the second half before Howard made one final run. Trailing by seven at the end of the third quarter, Howard's Tammy Houseworth connected on a pair of jump shots to cut the lead to three. 
Howard switched to a 1-3-1 half-court trap and came up with an important steal. After failing to capitalize on the op­portunity to cut the defecit to one, Howard never threatened again. Kraus and senior Elizabeth Bolt put Lyons com­fortably back in the lead with a pair of jumpers. 
Bolt finished with eight points while Seguin and Houseworth tied with 10 points each to lead Howard. 
In other action, Breen­Phillips picked up its first win of the year by defeating Pasquerilla East, 31-19. BP moved to 1-2 on the season while PE fell to an identical1-2. 
Only two teams remain un­defeated on the season. Pasquerilla West moved to 3-0 with a victory over Walsh, while Lewis stayed in second place with a 2-0 record after beating Badin. 
Action resumes Sunday with a key game between the two undefeated squads, PW and Lewis, at 2 p.m. 


Yves Auriol, Notre Dame's women's fencing coach, has been named one of three coaches for the United States Olympic fencing team, which will travel to Seoul, South Korea in September, 1988. Auriol has coached the women's team to the 1987 ~AA Championship, and has a 46-0 record in three seasons. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do will meet tonight at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in learning self-defense can come for a free lesson. No experience necessary. For more infor­mation, call Greg Barron at 2180. -The Observer 
A Shorin-Ryu Karate demonstration will held at 7 p.m. in the boxing room of the JACC. Shorin-Ryu classes, open to all faculty and students, will begin Monday, Jan. 25, at 7 p.m. in the boxing room. Classes meet every Mon­day and Wednesday. Any questions may be directed to NVA. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold its first meeting of this semester tonight at 6:30 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy. All members are asked to attend. -The Observer 
The Judo Club will hold its first practice of the semester tonight at 8 p.m. in room 219 Rockne. All begin­ners welcome, please wear sweats. For more information, call Kathy at 2625. -The Observer 
The varsity and novice crew teams will have a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
The women's soccer team will have a meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the P.W.lounge. Any questions, call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
Snow volleyball teams which have not yet been eliminated should report to Stepan Field Sunday, Jan. 24, at 11 a.m. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVII Commissioner applications can be picked up at the secretaries desk on the second floor LaFortune. Any sophomore interested in the position should turn in an application by Tuesday, January 26. Interviews will be conducted from January 27-29. Any questions, call Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
The martial arts institute beginner's class will begin workouts tomorrow and Sunday, Jan. 24. Those in­terested in joining contact Bill or Drew at 288-4319. No experience necessary. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball entry forms are now available at Angela Athletic Facility. The forms for the five-on-five league are due Monday, Jan. 25. -The Ob­server 


page 12 The Observer VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988 
•

Track club stuck 1n middle 
NVA taken by surprise 
i~~~~-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ & ·south Diningi
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
IThursdal121 Halls 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 

The recent storm of changes in the Notre Dame athletic de­partment hit the women's track club hard. 
Ever since its cross-country counterpart gained varsity status in 1986, the club has had a precarious existence. One of its coaches was also the varsity cross country coach, and its distance runners were also var­sity athletes. 
But the cross country coach, Dan Ryan, recently resigned, and a decision by Non-Varsity Athletics and the Athletic De­partment also has barred Ryan from coaching track. 
"Their exact words to me," said Ryan, "were 'my overin­volvement with the cross country runners' on the track team, and not enough attention to the other members of the track club." 
Assistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac, who informed Ryan of the decision, said the club had approached NVA about Ryan's involvement. 
Rich O'Leary, assistant director of club sports, said the track club was concerned that the athletes in the sprints and weights were concerned that Ryan was concentrating on the distance runners, and that they 


Varsitv 
continued from page 16 

~~~m st~~bs~~te c~~~nd~=~=~itted 
"Softball is very big in In­
diana," said club vice presi­dent junior Terry Proksch. 
~~~~: ~::~ity~earin~nc~ab~;
freshman year, and I'm just hgraapdpuyatietd_?,appened before I 
The news caught the wo­
men'sgolfclubbysurprise.Be­cause of a report in the South Bend Tribune over break which quoted Boulac as saying only women's soccer and softball
would be the new varsity sports, the team did not dis­
cover until yesterday that it would be included. "There were no hints at all," said club president Melissa
Houk. "We've been waiting such a long time. They keptputting it off year to year." "This would not have hap­pened without Dick Rosenthal and (Executive Vice President 
Fr. William) Beauchamp," noted Piane. "With their abili­
ties, things like this can be 
TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR PART I AN INFORMATIONAL PROGRAM 
by 

EMIL T. HOFMAN DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES 
in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAYI JANUARY 19 6:30 PMI 8:00 PM 
WEDNESDAYI JANUARY 20 6:30 PMI 8:00 PM 
(All four programs will be the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.)
FRESHMEN 
t..:F~R~E:.;S=-=.H.:.M:....:..:E::..;..N.:..,_-=f:....:R=-==E::..;;S=....;;;,.H;;;;,;;M;;,..,;,;;,.;,E_N_________ 
were continuing to look for a moderator. 
"He was trying to put his girls in a year-round training program, and understandably so," said O'Leary. "But it was that fftetion between the var­sity status and the club status that was causing problems." 
Dr. Tom Kelly, director of NVA, noted that from his de­partment's standpoint, the stu­dents in the club are supposed to do the majority of the admin­istrative work within the club. 
Theresa Rice, captain of both the cross country and track teams, contends that the cross country and track mixture was a positive factor on the club. 
"We don't see it as a con­flict," said Rice. "It's like this: we hate running on the club level. After competing in the Indiana Intercollegiate meet last year, we got bumped from it because we were a club. 
"The cross country is an in­centive to run club track. It helps to keep the women's track club going. 
Rice added that the sprinters and hurdlers trained with the cross country team during the fall, and assistant coach Mike McDonnell was delegated to work with them. McDonnell continues to work with the track team. 
"This year we have a lot of 
i\
ID__ rm_;_~_18_~ 
r~~~ --~~­
hiiUNrBIJ(
~~-~0~--_,.__ J



eJiste 
=­
~ ~--~~-~-otft 
February 19-21 $160 package cost includes: 
-Meals -Transportation ~ Cardinal Coaches -LodginQ (Four to a room, indoor and outdoor heated pools) 
-One free ski lesson for beginners
-Lift tickets  ~  
-"I  -(Hill has 20 runs including 8 beginner ·:~  
J¥  slopes and a vertical drop)  .  

Sign-ups begin Thursday, January 14 
and will continue through Wednesday, January 20. 
. Sign-up between 2:00 and 4:00 in 
the freshman class office, 2nd floor 
LaFortune. the entire balance is due 
at the time you sign-up. 
rJJ--a 
Get your name and $$$ in quick. .ary
Cut off is set at 80 students. 

good sprinters," Rice ex­plained, "but then they ask me if we are going to stay club forever because they don't want to spend four years on the club level." 
Rice added that a majority of the club members wanted Ryan as a moderator. 
Ryan said the Athletic De­partment did give him hope that the track club would even­tually go varsity. 
As the new cross country co­ordinator for both men and wo­men, Joe Piane will have to deal with the same varsity-club con­flict. 
"(Ryan) was in a difficult po­sition," said Piane. "Even some of the girls on the team experienced a conflict. It is a legitimate problem. Dan han­dled it as well as he could." 
Piane also praised the work Ryan did in leading the wo­men's cross country team the last few years. 
"Under Dan the program gained direction," he said. "He worked diligently with it. And the team peroformed well. There's no doubt the girls im­proved from the first year to last year." 

--=mal 

on three club promotions 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 

Non-Varsity Athletics gave birth to three varsity sports, and the department 
didn't  even  know  it  was  
pregnant.  
According  to  Rich  

O'Leary, assistant director of club sports, the softball, women's golf and women's soccer clubs all had not ap­plied for varsity status. Usually the clubs them­selves apply for varsity des­ignation. 
"Softball and soccer have been participating with the understanding that they would apply for varsity status, but they never have formally applied," said O'Leary. "Interest has also been shown by the men's vol­leyball, women's track and 
,~-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..-..~ 

~ Neighborhood Study i 
~ ~ 

! Help Program ! 
~ ~ t t t t ~ ~ 
~ wan S you 0 U Or ~ 
~ ~ 
d • S th i 
01111 WHO: little ki S Ill OU ~ 
~ Bend 
01111
!~ WHEN·. 1 hour twice a week !~ 
~ _ ~ r~ Sign-UpS: ~ ­
~ d t
1111 
~ Tues ay 11.9a 
~ ­
~ Festival 7-10 pm !~ 01111 ~ ~ 01111 
~ Wednesday 1 ..llQ at North & ~ 
~ .J/~ ~ 
I during lunch ~ 
~ ~
1 and dinner at SMC ;I dining halls I ~ I ~ General Meeting for all I I sign ups ~ ~ ~
I Sunday, January 24th ~ ~ 6 pm ~ I esc multipurpose room I 
~........................................................................J 
water polo clubs, but t~ey have not formally applied for varsity status." 
_O'Leary said that it was the Athletic Department's decision to promote those three sports. Of the three, the women's golf promotion took NVAby surpirse, partly because the original news only mentioned soccer and softball. 
Adding further confusion to the news is the time that has elapsed since an article in the South Bend Tribune first mentioned the moves. Printed in the Dec. 30 issue, that article included quotes from Assistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac. But an official announcement has yet to come from the Sports Information depart­ment. 

·········~ 
Happy Birthday Kevin! 

•
Time Will Tell ? : 
vour Friend, :
H e•
Mrs. . • 
e e e e e e e ee1 
~ 
!~ 
th esc ~ ~ 
e ! 
e e e e e e e e 
----------~--~-----
VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988 The Observer page 13 
•


Sorin, Morrissey, Thunder all unbeaten 1n IH 
By CHRIS PAULISON team, and realizing the tough­Morrissey gained its unde­O.C. Thunder, a winner over solid defensive play from Sports Writer ness of its schedule, is not as feated status by overpowering Flanner and Grace, is a team everyone." optimistic about its chances of Carroll and Grace by impres­loaded with talent. O.C. 
After a five-week sabbatical, repeating. Senior captain Sean sive margins. Evaluating his Thunder boasts a number of up­Stanford A-1, runner-up to men's Interhall basketball Cullinan said he sees a tough team, junior guard John Bus­perclassmen who once Sorin last year, has had little resumed league play this week season ahead. cher, last spring's Mr. achieved success on dormitory trouble winning its first two with a full schedule of regular "We are not nearly as deep Bookstore, expressed some teams, and now have come to­games. Stanford will be espe­season games. as we've been in the past, so confidence. gether to form a ballclub that cially hungry this season. The 
In the ACC, the most compet­it's going to take an extraordi­will be heard from. Junior point four senior starters, who rep­itive of the league's three divi­nary effort from our starters to "We are fortunate to have a guard Pat Walsh reflected on resent Leone's Stallions in sions, three teams have compete in a division as com­nice blend of talent," Buscher his team's chances in the ACC. Bookstore Basketball, have emerged as early-season petitive as this." said. "Matt Dingens and finished runners-up in that frontrunners. The Sorin Cedric Figaro give us plenty of "Defense will be the key to tournament the past two Screamin' Otters, the league's Cullinan looks to senior bulk close to the basket, while our success," Walsh said. springs. Captain Al Martin defending champions, share a power forward Dan Reynolds freshmen Derek Johnson and "There are plenty of guys on will be counting on point guard 2-0 record with Morrissey and and recently-acquired Tom Veltz provide a for­this team who have shown they Dan Niedermeyer and forward Off-Campus Thunder. swingman Kent Graham to midable backcourt combina­can score in bunches. For us to Bill Sullivan to bring the cham­
Sorin has graduated a few provide scoring punch in their tion. We'll even play above the win against Sorin and Morris­pionship to Stanford, where he key players from last year's starting roles. rim if we have to." sey, though, we'll need to get feels it belongs. 
people on the perimeter the show from the outside, knowing when to shoot and keeping opposing defenses

Irish 

when to get it inside." honest and hesitant to swarm 
continued from page 16 

Gavin, freshman sparkplug Bunek and Botham. 
key to our high shooting Karen Robinson and junior for­A healthy Lisa Kuhns has 
percentage is in our shot selec­ward Diondra Toney have been also been a boost for the Irish, 
tion," says McGraw, "and our more than capable in running who suffered from poor outside 
shooting last season. The junior guard missed all of last season with a knee injury. Kuhns has become Notre Dame's desig­nated long threat this winter, averaging eight points a game and connecting on 19-of-50 three-point attempts. 
While Siskel and Ebert might give this show a double thumbs­up, the main plot is just around the corner. Beginning tonight at DePaul, the Irish hope to continue their climb for Top-20 status in the toughest five­game swing of the season. DePaul and Michigan State both received votes in this week's polls. Then comes Mar­quette, and two established Top-20 opponents in Tennessee 









tosctence. 

The Tl-95 PROCALCrM is our most powerful, wp of the line
of the Tl-60, plus aswpwacchhimer, eight physical consUlntl, Deci­
advanced scientific with a full range ofscientific, mathematic, and
sirm Programming (if. .. then) capabilities and l00 programming seeps swtistical functions. It uses redefinable function keys wpr011idefor repetitive calculatirms. 
easy access wfunctions with menu-like windows and has a flexible file management system wconveniently store programs and daw. The T/-95 offers optional accessories such as Solid SUite Software"" canridges, an BK consUlnt memory carrridge, apanable printer
The Tl-60 Ad\lanced Scientific features such built-in functions as 
and cassette inteTface.
hexadecrmallocUII crmversions, rmegration using Simpson's rule, swtistics (including linear regressirm), trend line analysis and metric 10 English con­versirms. There are also 84 programming steps far repetitive calculations. 
No matter how hard your TI offers an easy solution. The calculators with the right built-in the calculators from the folks who've science, math or engineering Advanced Scientific calculators functions and programming capa­given their brains to science. from Texas Instruments. Each TI bilities to solve even the hardest
courses are, they're easier to take ©1988TI. 
Advanced Scientific features large, problems. Maybe that's why more
with TI Advanced Scientifics. 
color-coded keys and a simple key­students rely on TI calculators than For all those excruciatingly hard board layout, making them easier any other brand. TEXAS. problems you're about to encounter to use than any other scientific So if you're the kind of student in your math or science career, calculator. And we've packed our who's got science on the brain, get INSTRUMENTS 
'"Tr.tdcmark of Texas Instruments lncorpomted 
Free software for the Tl-95. Visit your nearest Tl Dealer now! 
!' . 
.--.~.-.-.--.-.-.-.-~--.-.--.-. page 14 VVednesday, Janua~ 20, 1988 
-------.-~-----:--­
Preseason NIT boasts tough field 
Associated Press 
South Padre for 

SEring Break 
March 11-20 cost $346 
accommodations at the luxurious Hilton Resort ansportation by Motorcoach (trip must include 
transportation) 
free pool deck parties, etc. 
sign-ups held 
Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 27 
6:00 pm -9:00 pm at the Information Desk first floor LaFortune 
$100 deposit required at that time no lines before 5:00 pm 
Sponsored by SUB 
or Judy 283-2999 
Moses joins Olympic trials 
Associated Press Moses set a world record of 
47.02 seconds for the 400-meter hurdles on Aug. 28, 1983. He won that event in both the 1976 and 1984 Olympics and had an unbeaten string of 107 straight finals snapped last June in Madrid. 
AEROSPACE Et!GINEERING GEORGIA INSTITUTL. OF TECHNOLOGY 
Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D): 
Aerodynamics Aeroelasticity Combustion Computational Fluid Dynamics Computer-Aided Design 
Flight Mechanics &Controls Propulsion Rotary Wing Technology Structural Dynamics Structures -Composites 

RESEARCH FELLO~ISHIPS /,NO ONE-THIRD TO ONE-HALF TIME RESEARCH ASSISlANTSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE 
Financial aid per calendar year: 
$8,000 -$13,500 plus tuition and fees 
11 graduate students will participate 
in research. 
For further information contact: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Grad~ate Coordinator School of Aerospace :ngi neeri ng Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30.;32 (404) 894-6046 Office hours: M-W 2-c:30 

VVednesday, Janua~ 20, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross House 3:30p.m. Aerospace-Mechanical Engineering Dept Seminar, "Control of Vortical Separation on Conical Bodies," by Dr. Nikos Mourtos, Stanford University, in 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "The Supernova," by Prof. David Schramm, University of Chicago, in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 7 p.m. SUB meeting in Zahm Hall basement concering Spring Break Trip with 23 minute video of Vail, Colorado 
7:30 p.m. -9 p.m. Faculty Conversation on Connections: An Historical View of the Development of Science and Technology in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 7:30p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting in 210-214 Center for Continuing Education 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Footlong Chilidogs Broccoli Stuffed Fish Lasagna Manicotti Cheese Stuffed Pepper Beef Burgundy over Rice Baked Cod in Herbs Deli Bar 



Comics 
OH, IT HAS NOT 

Calvin and Hobbes 
VNQE t-W<, LOOK! I'LL ~OW ~OU A MA.GIC 
DIS~EAQING TRICK! 
\ 

i 
~\tv­
sa [)ICk DtJil[) 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
: 
ACROSS 1 Pinochle word 6 Oct. 
birthstone 10 Wound cover 14 Existing 15 Nerve plexus 16 Rangy 17 Young lover 18 Feasts 19 Russ. saint 20 Carbohydrate 22 Fried pastries 24 Socials 26 Wine storage 
areas 27 City dweller 31 Numerals: 
abbr. 32 Tremble 33 Certain group 35 Beret 38 Waterless 39 Inward 40 Be brave 41 Tried for 

office 42 Sparkle ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 43 Swiss city 

44 Bakery Item 45 Lie -9 Abated 
(polygraph) 10 Seats 47 Biology e.g. 11 Lily 51 Valley 12 Horatio ­52 Sweet wine 13 Designer Bill 54 Coronets 21 "Ball -" 58 Olive genus 23 -machine 59 Golf club 25 Gem 61 Upright 27 Soviet 62 Musical initials 
Jerome 28 Hera's mother 63 Fr. river 29 Farm 64 "-Ia glubba" building 65 Former mates 30 Outward 66 Lack 34 Domesticated 67 Oleate e.g. 35 Dray 
36 lt. river DOWN 37 -Gynt 1 Sailors 39 Public vote 


2 Thanks -1  40 States  
3 Broad bean  42 Lollobriglda  
4 Catch up with  43 Have faith  
5 Geologic period 6 Crude metal 7 Anjou or Bose 8 Garret  44 Nuts 46 Asian holiday 47 Use cigars 48 Mosquito 49 Fr. river  50 Supernatural 53 Be defeated 55 Remainder 56 Entr' - 57 60  Recipe Instruction Rorem or Beatty  

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
HIWE.N'T 
me 
FIIIN~~T 
I 
ITHA5. mAr's f?IPICVL.()(JS. 
I 
Bill Watterson 
QK, fiRS\ l'LL I TM(t. IT '10\l NEE> f>..N 1\\11\K ~0\JR Ol' OROINA.~'( UNCLE t.\~ IS 
'l"t4£NI'{-O<ll).R 
~ LG'tF~~\T 
BILL. BUlB. 
The Bluebird of Happiness long abseot from his life, Ned Is visited by the Chicken of Depression. 
SUB presents: 
*********** 
BILL MURRAY WEEK!!! 
'************************ 
~~§.S-TRIPE~~~ 
8:00 AND 10:00 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday 
$1.00 Cushing Auditorium 



Sports
VVednesday, Janua~20, 1988 page 16 
Three women's clubs reach varsity level 
By PETE GEGEN Hockey and men's soccer will both lion, which has yet to celebrate its first Sports Writer be on four-year installment plans with birthday, the changes could spell na­
their new scholarships. Grace indi­tional success for both the men's and 
Softball, women's soccer and wo­cated that men's soccer will receive women's tennis teams. men's golf will all become varsity two scholarships per year for four "I hope to bring in three or four sports for the 1988-89 academic year, years, giving him a total of eight for nationally-ranked players next year," according to Athletic Director Dick the 1991-92 season. And hockey head said women's tennis head coach Mic­Rosenthal. coach Ric Schafer said in a letter to hele Gellman. "It's the best thing since 
Rosenthal also indicated that six former Irish hockey players that his chocolate. It's great." 
sports will receive additional scholar­program will receive two-and-a-half Prior to Title IX, the Irish hockeyships, starting with the 1988-89 aca­scholarships per year for four years, program flourished as an NCAA power demic year. giving him a total of 10. with a full complement of scholarships. 
Rosenthal also said that men's head A coach already has been named for But after budget cuts and a year at the soccer coach Dennis Grace would be one of the three new varsity sports. As­club level, the team had to live in the named coordinator of the soccer pro­sistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac shadow of its past glory. gram (covering both men's and wo­has been named the head softball coach Lately, however, the team has im­
men's teams), and men's head cross for the 1988-89 season. proved under a new head coach, and country coach Joe Piane would be While some responses among as Rosenthal commented, "we're named coordinator of the cross country coaches and club presidents to all of really pleased to see the hockey team program. Two full-time assistant posi­these changes have included shock and be so successful." tions will be created for each program. bewilderment, most of them are ex­"It's a start!" declared Schafer in 
Softball and women's soccer will cited and encouraged by the changes. his announcement to hockey alumni. begin their first varsity seasons with "It puts us in a whole other category Grace said that, at least for the first two scholarships each. Men's and wo­in the tennis world," said Irish men's season, he would be both the men's and men's tennis both will have their schol­tennis coach Bob Bayliss. "It is very women's head coach. He noted that be­arship totals increased from two-and­gratifying. The support of the adminis­cause of scheduling e._onflicts, he will a-half to five per team, although no tration has been fantastic. I couldn't fill the assistant's position with time table has been set for their distri­ask for better support." "someone who can come in and grabbution. Combined with the Eck Tennis Pavil-hold of the position -a sort of head coach 

By TIM SULLIVAN keep the games under control," Dame medical staff and Sports Writer he said. "The players have hockey staff have been con­such a wide range of ability ... sulted for safety purposes. The puck has been dropped. some of the players can really And so far this year, as Grace The goals are being scored ... play, while others aren't really has again moved to the front of 
But the hits aren't being strong on skates." the pack, there have been no thrown this year in Interhall The reaction to the checking problems -only good hockey.hockey. rule: Grace, the two-time defend­
The reason? A concerted ef­"Well, it was negative at ing Interhall champion, is once fort over the last two years by first," Kelly said, "but after a again the team to beat. With Non-Varsity Athletics to both few games everyone got used victories over Morrissey and prevent injuries and tone down to it. I even had a couple of cap­Off-Campus already under rough play. One method used tains in my office in support of their belts, the Grace playersto avoid rough-housing is a two­the rule." have no reason not to be confi­year-old ban on checking. Kelly, student hockey chair­dent. The Manorites and Off­
Dr. Tom Kelly, director of In­man Tom McGee, and the NVA Campus are two of the terhall hockey, cites a number staff have been keying on strongest teams in the League. of reasons for the increased keeping the games clean. A "Beating those two was the emphasis on safety. representative of NVA attends 
"Basically, we wanted to every game, and the Notre see HOCKEY, page 14 of women's soccer also." 
Grace added that he is taking the same philosophy he uses in making the men's schedule. 
"To attract recruits we need to play the toughest schedule possible," he said. "I think the women will be very competitive early." 
For the three clubs, the news represents the fulfillment of their original goal. 
"We've worked hard enough for it," said women's soccer club president Kate Titterton. "We've been a club for eight years, and I've worked for it since my freshman year." 
While the senior Titterton will never get the chance to play on the varsity squad, her sister, junior Jane Titterton, will. 
"I'm looking forward to taking soccer more seriously playing for the varsity,'' said Jane Titterton. "Before we couldn't even travel to away games be­cause we didn't have any money." 
While women's soccer was helped by a recent surge in soccer's popularity, 
see VARSITY, page 12 
McGraw's Irish: off and running Picture this scenario. Notre Dame beats Miami by 15, and is ranked number one in the nation. A shattered dream of seasons past? An unfulfilled chal­lenge on Lou Holtz' list of 100 goals? No -a reality -just two short weeks ago. But it happened on an indoor surface with a round ball and female athletes. Brian O'Gara Irish Items On Jan. 7 the Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated the Hurricanes of Miami, 83-68, and improved its position as the number one team in the nation in field­goal percentage at .534. Even better news came to head coach Muffet McGraw's office on Tuesday, as the 10-4 Irish picked up three votes in the Associated Press Top 20 women's basketball poll. Just one year ago the record stood at 4-11, three players had quit the team and the outlook was bleak. Today the outlook is anything but bleak, as McGraw has the Irish posed to challenge for a first-ever bid to the NCAA Tourn­ament. Along the way stand several obstacles, including Ten­nessee, everyone's preseason No. 1 and currently in the top five of most polls. The Lady Vols will bring their act to the Joyce ACC on Feb. 3 and will not see the same team they demolished 90-55 last season. Circle that date on your calendar. Much of the credit for that goes to McGraw, the first-year Irish coach who brought a career record of 88-41 to Notre Dame last spring after the resignation of former head coach Mary DiStanislao. McGraw has the Irish off to the races this winter, with a pressure defense which has created a dangerous fast break. While at Lehigh, McGraw's teams consistently racked up impressive records but could not make the NCAA Tournament because it had little clout or name-recognition with the powers-that-be. Name recognition is not a prob­lem under the Golden Dome. While McGraw brought change to Notre Dame's game, some things remain the same, particularly the stellar play of point guard Mary Gavin. With every steal and assist Gavin adds to her own all-time Irish records. She currently is second in the nation with 9.5 assists a game. Notre Dame's coronation as field-goal percentage queens can be attributed to the fast break and the strong inside play of twin towers Heidi Bunek and Sandy Botham. So far the Irish have avoided the run-and-gun plague which bites many fast-breaking teams. When the break is stifled, Bunek (17.9 points per game) and Botham (15.5) have had little trouble getting open underneath and putting the ball in the hoop. Bunek was named this week's North Star Conference Player of the Week after consecutive 23-point perfor­mances against Syracuse and Northern Illinois. "The see IRISH, page 13  





