
/ACCENT: 'Jump Street' on way up Brighter Days Ahead 
Sunny and pleasant today. 
High in the mid 70s. Clear 
tonight. Low in the low 50s.
IVIEWPOINT: Attack on 'right to choose' 

VOL. XXII, NO. 25 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Campaign debate could be 'pivotal event' in election 
Associated Press 

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.-­George Bush and Michael 
Dukakis clashed  over  
deficits, drugs and Pledge of Allegiance  the in a  

crackling campaign debate last night. Bush said, "I hope people don't think I'm ques­tioning his patriotism," but Dukakis said he was and added, "I resent it." 
Bush said his sharp cam­paign attacks were meant to question Dukakis' judgment on matters like his member­ship in the liberal American Civil Liberties Union and his veto of legislation requiring teachers in Massachusetts to lead their students in reciting the pledge. 
But Democrat Dukakis, saying he hoped he wouldn't have to repeat himself, replied, "Of course the vice president is questioning my patriotism. I don't think there's any question about that. And I resent it. I resent it." 

The clash came little more than 30 minutes into the 90­minute nationally televised confrontation. At stake was an edge in a contest rated a tossup in most national polls. With many voters un­decided or wavering, both campaigns viewed the show­down as a potentially pivotal event. 
The formal debate rules · were designed to prohibit 
direct candidate-to­
candidate comment, but 
there was no shortage of hos­
tilities. 

Bush worked into one an­
swer that Boston city police 
had endorsed him over their 

hometown candidate. Reply­ing to a Bush comment about being haunted by the plight of underprivileged children, Dukakis said, "I must have been living through a differ­ent eight years than the ones the vice president has been living through." He said pro­grams had been "cut and slashed and butchered and they hurt kids all over this country." 
In their argument over ways to cut the deficit, the vice president depicted his rival as a tax-raiser and the Democrat · suggested that Bush would cut Social Secur­ity. 
Both men aimed snappy comments at the other in the debate's opening moments. 
Dukakis was asked to 
See DEBATE, page 4 

Debate preparations started early for two presidential candidates 
Associated Press 

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.­Both campaigns took pains to portray their candidates in advance as underdogs, but Bush and Dukakis both expressed confidence as they made their way to the debate city. 
The candidates flew to North Carolina a few hours before the debate began to check the lighting and sound systems in Wait Chapel on the campus of Wake Forest University and to browse through their briefing books. 
Bush and Dukakis, whose campaign wrangling has turned increasingly nega­tive, were believed entering the debate with some well­rehearsed; one-line barbs as well as more complex state­ments of their positions on the issues. 
Traditionally, the first of a series of presidential debates draws the largest television audience. 
Estimates of the audience for the first debate in 1984 between President Reagan and Democratic challenger Walter Mondale ranged as high as 132 million. Voter turnout for the presidential election was fewer than 100 million. 
"It's the beginning of a new phase of the cam­paign,'' Sen. Bill Bradley, D­N.J., said after a debate practice session with Dukakis. 
The format, agreed to after weeks of discussions between the two campaigns, allowed each candidate two minutes to answer a ques­tion and one minute for rebuttal. 
At the end of the debate each candidate was allowed two minutes for a closing statement. 
Other points over which the campaigns haggled were the makeup of the panel, the height of the podiums and whether the candidates would sit or stand. 
While the format allowed no opportunity for the can­didates to question each other, they were certain to find ways to raise questions that have marked their stump attacks on each other. 
"Where was George?" has become a Democratic cam­paign slogan referring to 
See CAMPAIGN, page 5 




Former presidential candidate speaks at ND 
By SHANNON RYAN 
News Staff 
Bruce Babbitt, former gover­nor of Arizona and Democratic presidential candidate, spoke at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse Mall Friday afternoon. Bab­bitt, a Notre Dame alumnus, discussed his personal back­ground and spoke about his ex­periences as a presidential can­didate. 
"I showed up (at Notre Dame) in the fall of 1956 with a strict Catholic family feeling that religion was just a lot of rules and rituals. By the end of my years here, I realized that religion was more than ritual; it was content, it was action ... .I began to see what it (religion) was like in terms of communi­ty," Babbitt said. 
"In your passage through this university--the explora­tion, the testing, the reaching­-you are making the kind of commitments that will help you wherever you go," Babbitt continued. 
After graduating in 1960, Babbftt, a geology major, went to South Africa to study its ter­rain. However, "The first time I saw a woman cradling a dying child in her arms, I asked myself, 'What kind ''Qf choices should I be making in this life?'" Babbitt said. 
Upon his return to the U.S., Rabbit said he formed a "private peace corps" with some fellow Notre Dame graduates. "Babbitt then be­came involved in the civil rights movement in Alabama, and eventually decided to at­tend Harvard Law School. In 1978, four years after gradua­tion, he was elected governor of Arizona. 
"When I decided to run for president, I knew it would be a difficult road to travel," said Babbitt. "However, the seriousness of. the campaign that I anticipated was not there." 
"I was disappointed in the level of dialogue; it seemed the entire campaign consisted of charges of who did what to whom," Babbitt said. He cited the media as a key offender, saying "It isn't right that The National Enquirer dominated the discussion of the cam­paign." 

"This is not a time in which Americans are eager to con­front the issues. There is an ebb and flow cycle of complacency, and Americans are in a mode of tranquility and satisfac­tion," Babbitt stated. "When times are good, we tend to take 
See BABBITI, page 4 
page 2 The Observer Monday, September 26, 1988 

IN BRIEF 
Run-off election results for the SMC freshman class are as follows: Susan Zielinski and Lori Marucut won, receiving a total of 52 percent of the vote. The op­posing ticket of Kelly O'Connell and Kerry Brown received 42 percent of the vote. --The Observer 
A New Jersey company is considering seeking 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration permission to begin testing a French-made drug that induces abortions early in pregnancy, a scientist said. 
The French government on Friday authorized use of RU 486, or mifepristone, an anti-hormone chemical that inter­rupts pregnancy by blocking the implantation of a fer­tilized egg on the uterine wall. --Associated Press 
Members of the Grateful Dead, those rock 'n' roll icons from the psychedelic counterculture of the late '60s, have joined the concerts-for-causes circuit. 
The band, which played at the legendary Woodstock Festival and has been a rock mainstay for 23 years, joined Bruce Hornsby and the Range, Suzanne Vega, and Hall and Oates on stage Saturday night to raise money to protect tropical rain forests. --Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Urban Plunge Registration continues this week. ND students can register at the Center for Social Concerns, Campus Ministry, or with their hall reps. SMC students can sign up at the Office of Justice Education (128 Lisa Madeleva), Campus Ministry (150 Regina), or with their hall reps. Deadline for registration is Monday, Oct. 3. -The Observer 
The Investment Club will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 222 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
Transition To Democracy In Chile will be the topic of a seminar held by Veronica Montecinos on Tues­day, September 27, at 12:00 Noon in 131 Decio. Please plan to be there! -The Observer 
Volunteers for the Homeless All those interested in training for Educational Services are reminded of the meeting Tuesday, Sept. 27, at 7: 00 in the Center for Social Concerns. Any questions: please call Pat Larsen at 1576 or Steve Raymond at 1729. -The Observer 
NDSMC Ballroom Dance Club will meet at Theodore's on Monday, Sept. 26 from 7-9 p.m. Refresh­ments will be served. -The Observer 
Individuals interested in developing more self-confidence in dealing with people, take note. The Coun­seling Center is beginning a 7 week Assertiveness Group this Thursday, Sept. 29th, 3:30-5 p.m. Interested in par­ticipating? Call the Counseling Center at 239-7336 to sign up. -The Observer 
CILA is sponsoring a dinner/discussion tonight (Monday, September 26) upstairs in South Dining Hall at 5:00. Joe McKenna will lead a discussion on the topic of "Northern Ireland". All are welcome. -The Observer 
Southern California Table Grape Issue will be discussed in a meeting at the center for Social Concerns. Anyone interested in helping with the campaign or just learning more about the situation should attend. The meeting is Tonight at 8:00p.m. in the Coffee House of the Center. -The Observer 
AIESEC will be holding a general meeting tonight (Monday) in Hayes-Healy. All are still welcome to join. If you can not attend, please phone Jeff at X3376. -The Observer 

Design Editor···-· ............ Lisa Tugman Typists... . . . . . . . . . . Diana Bradley Design Assistant . . . . . . . . ...... David Roth ............................................. Will Zamer Typesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jim Mercurio ND Day Editors ... .......... Diana Bradley News Editor . ................... Michelle Dall ....................................Jennifer Richards Copy Editor ... ....... .. .. . . .. Ingrid Schmidt SMC Day Editor .. . . ....... Liz Lobb Sports Copy Editor ......... Theresa Kelly Photographer... . .............. Eric Bailey Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Mike Truppa Ads Designers... . ............ Mindy Breen Viewpoint Layout ....... Annette Rowland .............................................. Patti Kase Accent Copy Editor ...... Robyn Simmons .......................................... Megan Keane Accent Designer . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Sedlack ............................................ Molly Killen 
Tile 011111ner (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Olllener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (U5 per semester) by writina Tile Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olllen• is a member or Tile .u.odated Preu. All reproduction riahts are raerved. 



Ritz issue aimed at pol icy, not hotel 
"These insinuations . . . inspired a woman, who identified herself as the mother of a Notre Dame student, to call the Ritz ... to let us know that she is going to recruit mothers of students to attempt to close down our establishment." 
letter to P.O. Box Q Wednesday, Sept. 21 
Well, perhaps I should have left well enough alone, but this excerpt from a recent Viewpoint letter was just too silly to let go. 
For those of you who may have missed the Ritz controversy, a column appeared in this space two weeks ago pointing out that a Uni­versity business directory contained advertis­ing for The Ritz, a local hotel "dedicated to romance and intimacy." 
The whole point of the column on The Ritz was to point out the inconsistency between Notre Dame's censorship of alcohol advertise­ments in The Observer and non-censorship of other advertisements apparently in conflict with Notre Dame policies on sexual activity. 
Now lo and behold, a local resident (or group of residents) seem to be bent on censorship of The Ritz itself by having the establishment closed down. No reason was given for this re­action in the Viewpoint letter, and, to be honest, I cannot think of one myself. If The Ritz were engaged in any illegal activities, the police would have shut the place down long ago. 
But The Ritz is providing an avenue for stu­dents to break Notre Dame's parietals and sexual activity policies, right? Maybe. If these are the grounds for attempting to shut down The Ritz, we might as well drop a neutron bomb on U.S. 31 North, where many more students go every weekend to escape what they view as overly restrictive rules. Better raze Campus View while we're at it. 
Shutting down The Ritz would be about as narrow-minded as the censorship the Ritz ad­vertisement was inconsistent with. Both are simply attempts to wall off all of society from actions that only some of society see as wrong. 
"But we're only trying to help people make the right choices," say the censor-minded provincials of the world. No, you're not. You're trying to eliminate the choices themselves. 
If the immorality of alcohol use and the im­morality of sex were so clear-cut, then why are many reasonably intelligent Notre Dame stu­dents using alcohol and having sex? Because they saw hotel and liquor store ads? Nonsense. They have chosen to do these things as consent­ing adults, although our cockeyed federal gov-
Mark Mclaughlin News Editor • 


ernment has set up laws so that 18-year-olds can be shot defending their country but can't buy a beer. 
Censorship is a vile thing. It is an attempt to obtain compliance to arbitrary rules by force where logical arguments have either failed or never been presented. Foreign totalitarian gov­ernments do that sort of thing. American citizens and Catholic university administra­tions should know better. 
The question in both these cases is: Who is getting hurt? In the case of alcohol use, it can be argued that alcoholics, drunk drivers and their innocent victims are hurt and killed by users of alcohol. While I would say we should treat alcoholics and drunk drivers instead of attacking all alcohol users, there is some room for debate. 
Opponents of The Ritz have no such leg to stand on. There is nothing about The Ritz that violates the rights of anyone not staying there. There is only a fog of unjustified "morality" in some peoples' minds. 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 26, 1988 

New plan could lower doctors' fees 
companies, his 2,000-page plan could have a profound effect on the nation's health care sys­tem. Among other things, it 
could: 
-Improve care by encourag­ing doctors to spend more time with their patients. 
-Lower medical costs by dis­couraging expensive tests, procedures and operations. 
-Increase the number of doc­tors willing to specialize in family practice and other kinds of primary care. 
-Lower the income of some surgical specialists while raising the pay of physicians who provide general care. 
A summary of the findings is scheduled to be published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Thursday, the same day the report is released by the federal Health Care Financing Administration. Next month, the Journal of the American Medical Association will devote an entire issue to Hsiao's work. 
"This is going to be a very important piece of work that we hope will rationalize the manner in which physicians are paid," said Dr. James Todd, the AMA's senior deputy executive vice president. 
Correction 
Due to a production error, some of the paragraphs in last Friday's Inside column by Chris Donnelly appeared in incorrect order. The sec­tion that began "Personal-­ly, I like ..."and ended with " ...Robert Ludlum" should have appeared at the end of 
Associated Press 
BOSTON--A long-awaited study being released this week could dramatically change the way doctors are paid, sharply reducing fees for many kinds of operations while raising charges for office visits. 
The study has been the object of intense speculation and ap­prehension in the medical world since it was undertaken 2 years ago by economist William Hsiao of the Harvard University School of Public Health. 
The massive project at­tempts to determine the amount of work involved in everything doctors do--from checkups and well-baby visits to brain surgery and coronary bypasses--so they can be paid what their services are worth. 
There is widespread agree­ment, Hsiao said, "that the cur­rent payment system is un­workable. The fees are distorted and inequitable." 
Hsiao's plan, requested by Congress, will try to correct that. It would pay physicians more for the time they spend thinking about patients, ex­amining them and talking to them and less for specific procedures. 
In an interview, Hsiao said that if adopted by government health agencies and insurance the column. 

BEAT THE RUSH••• 
• vs. l.J 
MIAMI 


BUY TICKETS EARLY 
Baseball Blowout October 13-14 Stanley Covaleski Stadium 
$2 Student General Admission Blue&... Gold Card Members Admitted Free 
On sale tonight In the North &.. South Dining Halls 
---------------------ALS0 ---------------------­
Blue &.. Gold Card Exchange in the Dining Halls 
MUST HAVE TEMPORARY CARDS TO EXCHANGE 
: AD'NQRI<S
•-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 3 



~,.,"' .,.r1,.. ,,.,..',.,,..~.,. ,,_,.
rLWtm nntG n!~£ \!1! !Z~· n !n! I'PJ'P ~,..,. ,...~~,,,,.. ",,,., r-nll'~n l£\:! ~ ! t! 1£ l'!~IY' 
T,,,. 
~,....,..,r· ,.~r
fl!!: ~tml!:l'l.l£~·'"'' ~, "~.,.,"'
!!\! f!-'fLM~· ~f!I:J' 
,.~rflt,
"·"~ r.A'~,.,..
~L' mll'tml£ 
!'l!PL•ft. 
,..,.,,.,,~.,.~,.,... 

~U' ~·I!\ C:!· ! 1:1' tm 15 Located In the baeement of LaFortune vlea and maatarcard accapted 
Associated Press cording to a statement issued by the Carter Presidential Cen­
PLAINS, Ga.--Billy Carter, ter on behalf of the former the former "first brother" and president and his family. "good ole boy," whose candor "He had struggled and business ventures amused courageously with his illness, and sometimes embarrassed never losing his sense of humor the Carter administration, died and always more concerned yesterday of cancer. He was 51. about those who loved him than 
The brother of former Pres­about himself," the family ident Jimmy Carter suffered said. for a year with pancreatic Carter was forced into the cancer--the disease that killed spotlight when his older bro­his father and a sister--and ther rocketed from their tiny lived longer than his doctors hometown into the White expected. He died three days House . after leaving the hospital for Last April, Carter acknowl­his home in this southwest edged he enjoyed being a part Georgia hamlet. of the national scene during his 
Carter "died quietly and brother's presidency from 1977 ' peacefully in his sleep ... with to 1981. his family at his bedside," ac-"I've been asked, a thousand 

"'"" 
rrtm !IJ"Pit:!P~IP'~E'" 
p ",.~,.. 
\ I I I I I I I 
!I 

times, I guess, what I would do if I had it to do over again," he said."And I said, 'Probably the same thing,' because if I had to do it over again, I'd probably screw up worse the second go­round." 
He underwent an experimen­tal program at Emory Univer­sity Hospital, and in May checked into the National Can­cer Institute in Bethesda, Md., for what he said might be his "last chance--the only one left except prayer, and I'm trying that too." 
In addition to his wife and brother, Carter is survived by six children, ages 11 to 31, and sister Gloria Carter Spann. 
houra: 12-1 M-F 

,..,.., ,.~.,.,,.,,, 
'• 

page 4 The Observer Monday, September 26, 1988 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
specify three programs he would cut to curb the federal budget, and said he would reduce "certain weapons sys­tems, which we don't need and can't afford." He also said he would try to implement a pro­gram of collecting delinquent taxes that has been successful in Massachusetts. 
With that, he focused on Bush, and said the Republican wants to spend more on defense, cut capital gains taxes, spend more money on other programs yet impose no new taxes. 
"If he's serious about what he's saying the only way he can do it is by raiding the Social Security trust fund," Dukakis said. 
"If he keeps this up, he's going to be the Joe lsuzu of American politics," he said, drawing laughter from the au­dience with his reference to the television advertising charac­ter who exaggerates every­thing he says about the cars he's selling. 
"Is this the time to unleash our one-liners?" Bush said in response. "That answer was about as clear as Boston Har­bor," he said in reference to 
environmental  problems  in  
Dukakis' home state.  
The  first  question  of  the  

debate was about drugs, and Dukakis took the offensive by questioning Bush's leadership on the problem. 
Bush said the reason drug use was exploding was because of a "deterioration of values." 
Dukakis agreed, but said values must begin with the na­tion's leaders. He accused the Reagan administration of dealing with Panamanian Gen. Noriega, whom he referred to as a "drug-running dictator. We've been dealing with him; 
Babbitt 
continued from page 1 
our hands off the oars, sit back and drift." 
"We need to challenge people instead of pandering to them," Babbitt urged. How long can we live beyond our means, complacent with our false sense of security, eating ban­quets at the expense of our fu­ture?" 
"America must step up to an enormous act of self­renewal. ... We need better edu­cation; we need to live within our means; we need to re­interpret ourselves," he said. 
"We need a government that doesn't answer every problem with a checkbook." 
Babbitt stressed, "The Cold War is over. We've won. Capitalism has won. Marxism is virtually dead. We need leaders who'll say more than just 'The Russians are coming, the Russians are com­.ing' .... Asia will be the domi­nant force in the next century," he said. 
"Americans must get ready to take it straight," according to Babbitt. "The winds of change are blowing, but not strongly. I know my message is what it's all about, though it may take another messenger to deliver it. I will do my part to support that messenger." 
"When I withdrew from the 
race, it hurt. It hurt pretty bad. 
I wasn't sure if it was all 
worthwhile," said Babbitt. 
he's been dealing drugs to our kids." 
Bush swiftly replied that the Reagan administration moved quickly to indict Noriega on drug charges as soon as it had evidence. 
Bush and Dukakis were all smiles as they walked onto the debate stage. They met mid­way and shook hands before taking their positions behind wooden podiums. 
Bush, vice president under President Reagan for the past seven years, told reporters on the flight from Washington that he was relaxed and determined to beat Dukakis. He said the debate was "the second most important" day of his political life after theNov. 8 presidential election itself. 
Dukakis, the Democratic governor of Massachusetts, told several hundred cheering supporters on his arrival that the debate was long overdue. "It's time we had a face-to-face debate and this is going to be a good one," he said. 
The moderator for the debate was Jim Lehrer, co-anchor of public broadcasting's "MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour." 
Three journalists--John Mas­hek of the Atlanta Journal and Constitution, ABC anchorman Peter Jennings and Orlando (Fla.) Sentinel reporter Anne Groer--were the questioners. The Republican and Demo­
cratic  parties sponsored  the  
event.  
Both  campaigns  flew  in  a  

team of political heavyweights in a bid to win the inevitable post-debate debate. Top-level . Bush aides were booked for net­work appearances scheduled to begin moments after the debate ended. Democrats countered with their own "spin patrol." 

AP Photo
Toot, Toot, Tootin' 

Korean children in traditional festive costumes play music at Songnam Stadium in Seoul. 
First female bishop elected 
Associated Press members. time a woman has been After eight ballots, Harris brought into the historic line of 
BOSTON--Members of the defeated the Rev. Marshall apostolic succession. The nation's largest Episcopal Hunt, 276 to 224. When balloting lineage of bishops is traced diocese elected the first woman started, there were six candi­back to the time of the apostles bishop in the history of the dates, including two women. through laying on of hands in church Saturday. the worldwide Anglican
Barbara Harris, 58, a priest Reached at her home in Communion--which includes at Philadelphia's Church of the Philadelphia, Harris declined the U.S. Episcopal Church, the Advocate, was elected suf­to comment immediately. Roman Catholic Church and fragan, or assistant, bishop for Later, a spokeswoman said Eastern Orthodoxy.the eastern Massachusetts Harris would respond after her diocese, the largest in the sermon at the Church of the The Episcopal Church first country with 192 missions and Advocate yesterday. approved the ordination of parishes and more than 150,000 The election marks the first female priests in 1976. 
" ... But then I understood. I place called Notre Dame,"' realized that it's ndt about win­After his speech, Babbitt ning or losing; it's about com-fielded questions from the au­
. mitting to the process, throw­dience, covering topics such as ing yourself into something you abortion, South African divest­believe in. And then I thought, ment and Dan Quayle. Babbitt 'I knew that. That's what I will return to his hometown of learned a long time ago at a Flagstaff, Arizona . 

PART-TIME CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS STUDENTS WITH OVERSEAS EXPERIENCE EARN MONEY NOW WHILE CONTINUING YOUR STUDIES! 
OUR CLIENTS ARE CURRENTLY SEEKING QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS WITH FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA EXPERTISE, ESPECIALLY FOR ASIAN, AFRICAN AND LATIN AMERICAN MARKETS. MANY PART-TIME CONSULTING ANOOR RESEARCH ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE DURING SCHOOL YEAR. SOME FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE AFTER GRADUATION. FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED DEGREES WELCOMED. EXPERIENCE IN SCIENTIFIC AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FIELDS ESPECIALLY SOUGHT BY CLIENTS. 
FOR PROMPT CONSIDERATION PLEASE SEND RESUME AND PHONE NUMBER TO: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION P.O. BOX A-3629 CHICAGO, IL 60690 
OUR CLIENTS PAY ALL FEES. THERE IS NO COST TO APPLICANTS. 

I KAPLAN 

IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO ENRO:.L IN THE KAPLAN LSA T PREP COURSE FOR DEC. 3, PLEASE CALL OR COME BY THE KAPLAN CENTER TO RESERVE YOUR PLACE IN CLASS. 
EVERY EFFORT WILL BE MADE TO ACCOMMODATE ALL NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED SO PLEASE SIGN UP EARLY. 
CLASSES BEGIN OCTOBER 4! 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCAnONAl CENTER LTD. 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IINI 466J7 Phone 219/272-41J5 



Monday, September 26, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Congress is considering reforms and social initiatives 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Social initia­tives from welfare to child care are hanging in the balance as Congress draws toward ad­journment, increasingly im­patient and preoccupied with presidential politics. 
In a year of rhetoric about the American family, law­makers have yet to complete action on major initiatives to raise the minimum wage, ex­pand and improve child care, reform the welfare system and guarantee leave to workers with pressing family responsi­bilities. 
A number of appropriations bills, including one providing about $300 billion for the Defense Department, have 
Call 284 '-'-'-'-to wish Ellen K. Tala 
Associated Press

Get this FREE Value Pack of Staedtler school 
supplies and reuseable CacheCase worth $12, INDIANAPOLIS---A $51 mil­lion statewide radio system
when you buy a specially-priced Marsmatic 
could initially link at least 10

technical pen set with 7pens plus ink. Available 
state regulatory agencies and 

now at your college star~~------=::.::;;.~ eliminate confusion during major disasters, state police said. 
"For us to be able to talk to one another, it's the ultimate. It results in saving lives," said Indiana State Police Lt. Col. Larry Delaney, superintendent of special operations. 
Delaney's agency will pro­

______________________________pose the 800 megahertz system 
but differences remain be­tween the House and Senate versions. 
Also on the incomplete roster is the biggest environmental bill of the lOOth Congress, a revision of the Clean Air Act to strengthen the battle against urban air pollution, acid rain and airborne toxic substances. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd has warned senators to be prepared for Sat­urday sessions if the lOOth Congress is to end by Oct. 16-­two weeks beyond the original target date for finishing busi­ness. 
The Senate has been mired for days on a bill to raise the minimum wage from $3.35 to $4.55 over three years, unable to cut off a filibuster mounted The week ended with no resolu­tion and a ·vow to try again this week. 
Also scheduled this week is an equally controversial fam­ily leave bill opposed by small business lobbies. The measure would guarantee workers with a newborn, newly adopted or very ill child at least 10 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave. Workers with serious medical problems themselves would be entitled to at least 15 weeks of leave without losing their jobs. 
Welfare negotiators were meeting today to discuss the latest offers and counter-offers on an overhaul bill that would bolster child support payments from absent parents and create a major Jobs, Training and Education Program for wel­

In front of O'Shaughnessy Hall, two Notre Dame stu-being sold before the Purdue game on Saturday. dents advertise one of the many varieties of t-shirts 
In the House, a handful of negotiators led by Rep. Augustus Hawkins, D-Calif., are firmly opposed to a work requirement for two-parent families on welfare. The Reagan administration is just as firm about its insistence that the requirement be included. 
The latest Senate offer adds a degree of flexibility to the work requirement and phases it in starting in 1991. 
The changes "didn't move Hawkins," said his spokesman, 

Jay  Butler,  but  other  
negotiators appeared  headed  
toward  compromise  with  a  

final overhaul costing about $3 billion in the offing. 
Sens. Christopher Dodd, D­Conn., and Orrin Hatch, R­utah, reportedly have agreed promise, bipartisan child care bill based on the Democrats' $2.5 billion Act for Better Child Care Services. 

The bill would help low­income and, to a lesser extent, middle-income families pay for child care and would require child care homes and centers receiving federal money to con­form to minimum federal health, safety, training and staffing standards. 
The powerful National Edu­cation Association, along with the Parent-Teachers Associa­tion, the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups are mounting a cam­paign against the bill because church-sponsored day care programs would be eligible for 

r........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
FRESHMEN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of St~dies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can. plan their futures. 
DR. LLOYD H. KETCHUM Professor of Civil Engineerin~ 

"AN ENGINEERING EXAMPLE: A HISTORY OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL" 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1988 7:30PM AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
to the State Budget Committee this week. 
The high radio frequency system is similar to telephone trunking, Delaney said. If one line is busy, another is selected automatically for speedy com­munication. 
It could have reduced the confusion that occurred when an A-7 Air Force jet crashed into the Ramada Inn-Airport last fall, Delaney said. Those who responded to the emer­gency were forced to set up five different command posts and rely on runners to carry mes­sages between them. 
Campaign 
continued from page 1 
questions about the vice presi­
dent's role--or his lack of one-­
in the secret sale of arms to 
Iran and other controversial 
Reagan administration ac­
tions. 
Dukakis also has repeatedly 
questioned Bush's relationship 
with Panamanian military 
leader Manuel Antonio 
Noriega, who has been indicted 
in the United States on drug 
charges. 
Bush has portrayed the Mas­sachusetts governor as an op­ponent of most major military weapons systems and criticized his 1977 veto of legis­lation that would have required his state's public school teach­ers to lead students in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Bush also has criticized the Massa­chusetts program of weekend furloughs for prison inmates. 
"Dukakis is a good debater," Republican nominee Bush recently told reporters. "He is a professional debater and I'm not." 
pageS The Observer Monday, September 26, 1988 
Drawatterltiontoyourself 
Draw achart. Draw abuilding. Draw a con­clusion. Then draw yourself an Afor effort. Because whatever you need to draw, aMacintosh'M personal computer can help you do it. 
With programs like MacDraw" and SuperPaint, you can combine text and graphics to illustrate your ideas like they've never been illustrated before. 
Which is just one more example of how 
Macintosh helps students work smarter, quicker and more creatively. 
And the beauty of Macintosh is, you don't have to know diddley about computers to use one. What does Macintosh draw best? 
Attention to your work. 
I

tl®The power to be your besf' 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
since Roman times 
Chanuter... 
architectural orders, 
Paragraph ... older than the Iorrie. 
Section ... 


Styles ... Define Styles... :~T 11'1e Do:ric -named for its home on the Greek main.L3rui -i5 the oldes~ oi 1t1e greek orders It consists of three p8.rt.s 


t.he shaft. n;o;rke•i bv 
shallow ~-ertie~l grc;oves 
lmo-w"XX as I11J.~s: the cap­
ital_. ~thich is a. f1.'Ued 
echinu.s .. ;;rui 8. sqU.8re 
1able1 Calle•i afL ;;.t•8ClJ$ 

©1987 Apple OnnpuleJ.·Inc.. Apple and /be Apple louo a/'1' I'I'Rillemllmdemarks rif'andMacinlosb and Tbe pmrerto be )YJUI' he.1t a/'1' lmdemarks ojApple OmtptlleK Inc. MtuVrau· is a 
lt'Rt:'ilered lmdemark oj(./mis Gf1rp. · · · 
The Observer page 7 
Shuttle countdown is delayed 

An enthusiastic Domer takes advantage of the warm weekend weather 
to practice his volleyball skills on North Quad. 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 

: ~ ~ 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES···SERVICE···PARTS-·ACCESSORIES 
• CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY' OPEN TUES 9AM • 7PM ' OPEN WED • SAT 9AM • 5:30PM 
Winter Storage Available 

Kryptonite Locks-students Bikes Boxed 
$26.95 wit~ ad cut out Roseland 
Misnawaka 277-8866 
259-4862 135 Dixie Way S. 
3835 Lincoln Way E. 

SANDI PATTI 

IN CONCERT 
1988-1989 WORLD TOUR 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 7:30PM NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. ALL SEATS RESERVED: $11.50 AND· $9.50 
TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY, 
SEPTEMBER 26  
TICKETS  AVAILABLE  AT  THE  J.A.C.C.  BOX  
OFFICE,  ALL  TICKET  MASTER  LOCATIONS,  
BETHEL  BOOKSTORE  (ELKHART  AND  

MISHAWAKA), CHRISTIAN LIGHT (NAPANEE), BAKER'S BOOKSTORE (ST. JOSEPH, Ml), WORD OF .LIFE (MICHIGAN CITY) AND CHRISTIAN CENTER (SOUTH BEND). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 1-800-284-3030 $1.00 OFF FOR GROUPS OF 20 OR MORE THROUGH BOX OFFICE ONLY 
PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS AND NEW COVENANT PRODUCTIONS 
l.:;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii=~ 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.-­NASA postponed the start of the countdown for space shuttle Discovery by eight hours yes­terday because of lagging preparations, but still aimed for a Thursday morning liftoff. 
"We're still on the timeline for launch on the 29th and that's the plan," said launch director Bob Sieck. 
The countdown was res­cheduled to begin at 8 a.m. EDT today for the first manned American space flight since the Challenger blew up over the At­lantic 32 months ago. 

Deaf Hoosiers fight for legislation 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-­Hearing-impaired Hoosiers, who say the state has over­looked their needs too long, plan to let lawmakers know this week that the deaf are tax­payers, too. 
That slogan will be on some of the signs deaf Hoosiers and supporters will carry in front of the Statehouse at 8 a.m. Thursday. They figure a rush hour rally is a good way to get their concerns across tq large numbers of people. 
Members of the Indiana As­sociation for the Deaf also have scheduled meetings with legis­lators on the influential State 

The space agency had added 27 unprogrammed hours to the countdown as insurance for last-minute problems, and Sieck said eight hours of that time would be used in advance to complete the work of replac· ing panels and work platforms. 
"We don't want those people to have to do that under the gun with the clock counting," he said. "So we said, 'take all the time it takes and we'll delay the call to stations to accom­modate that."' 
NASA had planned to start the countdown at midnight, but "buttoning up" the aft end of the spaceplane--akin to closing 
Budget Committee and with both gubernatorial candidates. 
"Deaf people right now are very angry at the state of In­diana," said Glenn Carlstrand, vice president of the 500­member association. 
What pushed deaf people and supporters to organize in the 
past  month  was  a  recent  
legislative  review  of the  In­ 
diana  School  for  the  Deaf,  

which suggested the state could save money by consolidating that school with other state res­idential schools. 
"In the very least, we're talking about consolidation of campuses -physically," said Stephen DeMougin, assistant commissioner for health sup-
BEWARE! lrhe Screaming Midlget is now a !Bimbo in Umoo and she's wa~king the streets. 
[}{]@~~ 
Kathy McKeel 

Love, Anno, M.J., Michelle, Kathleen, Courts and everyone else 


_..!!~~~~=~~!!!!!!!!!!;:!!!!!!!!:::::::::;::= Bank and Gaza Strip to express 

,
,. 
I
I 
I 
I 
J 
l 
FRIDAY, OCT. 7-8:30 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME Joyce ACC All Seats Reserved-$17.50 & $15.50 
TICKETS ON SALE at JACC (9 am-5 pm) and at all Ticketmaster locations. Michiana locations are L.S AYRES (UP & Scottsdale Malls), NIGHTWINDS (No. Viii. Mall & Niles, Mich.), SUPER SOUNDS (Concord Mall, Elk­hart), CARSON PIRIE SCOTT (Mich. City), MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). 
Charge-by-Phone 1-800-284-3030 
For info, call 239-7354 
SWING STREET .. The newest Manilow album on ARISTA chrome cassettes. records. and compact discs. 

L----------------------_..died. 
the hood on a car--was delayed by a problem that had the po­tential of postponing the launch for two days. 
Low voltage readings were found in an electrical circuit that triggers the explosive 
charges used to separate the shuttle from its fuel tank when the tank is empty. Eventually, engineers determined that the fault was in a ground circuit, which does not affect the flight. 
Discovery's cargo will 15e a $100 million communications satellite that NASA needs for communications with future shuttles, and 11 scientific ex­periments. 
port services at the State Board of Health. "From an economic perspective, that makes pretty 
good sense. We don't have data that says putting deaf and blind kids together is a good situa­tion. 
"It's our intent to look at a 
common campus. If we are to 
consolidate a campus, what are 
the savings? Those are the 
numbers we're trying to com­
pute right now," he said. 
DeMougin said State Health 
Commissioner Woodrow Myers 
will be drafting proposals as a 
result of the legislative audit 
and suggestions for campus 
consolidation. 
Army gunfire in Gaza Strip kills 1 Israeli 
Associated Press 
DHEISHE, Occupied West Bank--Fifteen Palestinians were wounded by Israeli army gunfire Saturday and a 13-year­old Arab girl died of wounds suffered in an earlier clash, Arab hospital officials said. 
Dozens of Israeli leftists visited towns and refugee camps in the occupied West 
for the families of 25 activists ordered lrlonnr•torl by Israel. the crimes committed 

•a~::.au •.;:,, Palestinians, deporta­is the worst," said Elnat­Weissert, one of 10 Israelis toured the Dheishe refugee 
south of Jerusalem. 
Also Saturday, an Israeli gunboat on patrol off Lebanon sank a rubber , killing three Palestin­
guerrillas aboard. 
The guerrilla squad was en to attack Israeli targets belonged to the PLO's faction, a military 

•.,.,.,,.,.a said. It was the third re-infiltration attempt by this year. 
Nahil Tokheh, 13, died at Jerusalem's Mukassed Hospi­tal on Saturday, a week after shot in the head during a in the Ammari refugee north of Jerusalem, lhclsoiital officials said. The 
army confirmed the report. Her death brought to 271 the 

•uuu1uta of Palestinians killed the Dec. 8 start of the
Uprising against Israeli OCCU­
. 
pa bon. Six Israelis also have 


Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, September 26, 1988 
Pro-choice arguments lack foundation 
In recent years, abortion has become one of the most controversial and volatile issues. The actions of ex­tremists on both sides, however, have clouded the real problem and replaced it with name-calling and firebombing. At the heart of the matter is the fact that abortion is the murder of an inno­cent human being. Pro-choice individ­uals will argue that, firstly, a woman has the right to control her own body; secondly, that a fetus is not a person; and thirdly, that a woman has the right to choose abortion. When one glances at these arguments, one may find them to seem reasonable --but, at close study, will find them vague aud un­sound. 
Andrea Burman 
guest column 
The statement, "a woman has the right to control her own body," implies that she may do as she pleases in all ways. However, if she becomes intox­icated and proceeds to drive a car she will be· arrested, if she catches the chicken pox, she will not be allowed in a classroom, and if she scrawls graffiti on a building, she will be fined. Thus no right is absolute. When the "right to control" one's own body enters the realm of abortion, it implies a pregnant body. Though the pro-choice movement would have one believe that only the woman is involved in pregnancy, fetol­ogy has proven that, in fact, there are two bodies and that a fetus is a patient that can be transfused, operated on, etc. By the first ten weeks of gestation, a fetus has feet and hands, can eat, dream, suck his thumb, and feel pain. Because half of those aborted fetuses are unborn females, it seems a woman does not have the right to control her own body. 
Another argument is that the fetus is not a person. But, as stated above, preg­nancy involves two separate bodies. Pro-choice individuals first argued that the uterine contents were simply tissue which was part of the woman. Now tissue has the same genetic makeup as its owner. Fetologists and biologists, however, proved that the uterine con­tents possess a unique genetic makeup, thus . dismissing this tissue theory. Today, a major assertion is that a fetus may be of the human species, but that it is "potential" life. At all times, we are "potential" teenagers, "potential" adults, "potential" professionals, etc., but are we not always human? Biologi­cally, life begins at conception, but when do we become "human"? Does some physical change indicate humanity? But bone development is not complete until the teens, internal or­gans are not fully formed until the twenties, and the mind does not reach full development until the sixties, and by then, the body is deteriorating until death. Thus we are creatures of contin­ual change, and size or rate of devel­opment or age do not indicate exactly when we are fully "human." Once an individual is denied personhood, soci­ety may do what it likes to it because it has no rights, as was done to the blacks and the Native Americans in the past. 
A third argument for abortion is that it is a woman's issue and that she has a right to choose. It is supposedly be­tween a woman and her doctor, yet many doctors do not mention the pos­siblilities of hemorrhaging, sterility, a punctured uterus, and even death. It is often said, "I personally oppose abor­tion, but I support the right of others 
Would it not be broad­minded of us to say, "I would never send a Jew to the gas chamber but I support the rights of others to choose"? 
to choose." The right to choose seems to be a very democratic thing, yet what if_ one said, "I personally oppose slavery, but I support the right of others to choose?" Would it not be broad­minded of us to say, "I would never send a Jew to the gas chamber but I support the right of others to choose?" It was these attitudes which gave mass support ot the slavery system and to the murder of over six million Jews. Ideally, then, if the right to choose is a universal one, a father should have a right to save his unborn child, a tax­payer should have a right to choose not to pay for abortion-on-demand, a fam­ily should have the right to be involved in their minor daughter's decision to abort, and an unborn chi\d should have a right to live. Unfortunately, the law denies all of these. 
A further question here is that, if one personally opposes abortion, why does he condone it in others? If it is a rela-

Doonesbury 
•.81fT 7H£3 PRE$ ttltl$STILL HAVING 
I /<.NOW, AU THE-5WRS 5li&'rl 

7Pi)(}Bl& lJI6&5TIM3 7H& N8AI BI.J5H. 
SO OUT OF OIAR4CT&R.. 50Mf7~ T/M/73 I THIN!< TH/3 GUY

I JUST [)()NT (£TIT. I'V/3 fOL-­
W&'R£3 a!ATCH!NG 6N'T R/3ALL-Y

LIJtV&P 8U5H FOR ~RS. H& (JSl3f) 
(}f,()R/38 !JU5H ATAU. ! 

70 88 SUCH A N/C&, P&cENT 
I_.-.....-~

-~-~ FW.fJW... 
tively safe procedure, with little or no physical or mental consequences, why personally oppose it? But, if there is a question of the safety or the morality of it, how can one condone it in others? A common response is that it is OK in cases of rape. Rape is always a difficul1t issue, and the disgust it generates in society makes abortion seem like the best answer, if a pregnancy should result. Rather than giving the woman the counseling and loving support that she needs, society gives her the impres­sion that an abortion will erase the trauma completely. But psychiatrists say that, in fact, an abortion may add an even further burden to a victim, even more so than would giving birth. 

The act of abortion is, in essence, not unlike the act of rape. Rape is an act of aggression on an innocent human being --the rapist acts out his rage on his victim's body. In the same way, so­ciety tells women to act out their rage by doing violence to yet another inno­cent body. There is such an outrage at the crime of rape that society automat­ically seeks out revenge. But it ends up giving the sentence of capital punish­ment to the innocent, unseen child, rather than to the rapist. After all, does killing the child really help the woman? It may help society, but it does not help the two individuals most involved. 
Andrea Burman is a senior English major. . 
P.O. Box Q 
Right-To-Life cares for all humans 
Dear Editor: 
Once more, the blight of politics-­governmental, social and personal--has left its stain in our midst. In his Sept. 22 letter "Pro-lifers guilty of hypocrisy," Mr. Mukul Ranjan, with one unsubstantiated, sweeping blow, in­dicted all those who struggle to protect the rights of the unborn children as cal­lous, ignorant hypocrities. Un­provoked, and uninhibited by lack of evidence or proof, Mr. Ranjan attacks the Right-To-Life movement as one deaf to the cries of the war-torn, im­poverished, oppressed people of the world. In doing so, he sets in motion the machinery of the political mindset which polarizes and tears asunder those who strive for a universal goal: The betterment of the human condition. 
How tragic that Mr. Ranjan, a person obviously concerned with the global protection of human rights, cannot see that we who demand the recognition of the most fundamental of these rights-­the right to life--stand at his side. How tragic that Mr. Ranjan fails to recog­nize that pro-lifers, who alone can never hope to heal all the world's wounds, pray to be flanked by others fighting the battle for justice on other fronts. Though each hears the vocation to a separate mission, all work for a common cause--to insure that proper dignity and justice is paid to human life in all its forms. 
We may betray the weakness of Mr. 
Garry Trudeau 


Campus Quote 
"We are supposed to love our brothers and sisters despite of their faults, and not because of their virtues." 
Anthony Appiah 
IT'5 ALM05T AS 
IfH& HAP SOM/3 &VII.-7W!N... YI3AH. 
I 

Ranjan's assertions by simply revers­ing his central argument. Might one reasonably accuse those who spend their lives battling famine, or crying out for peace, or sheltering the home­less of caring naught for the unborn? 
Mr. Ranjan asks whether we of the Right-To-Life movement know how many are being killed by war, famine and poverty, and whether we care. The answer to both questions is: We do. The fact is, those who truly support the right to life give equal regard to all human life and feel equal pain for the loss of an unborn child as for starvation of a child in Ethiopia. In the eyes of the just, the innocent child in its mother's womb is no mere "group of cells" (as Mr. Ranjan asserts). Neither is the famine­stricken child only another statistic. There exists no ambiguity in either case. Both children deserve compas­sion; both deserve justice; both deserve to live. 
Though the purpose of Mr. Ranjan's unprovoked attack remains obscure, its potential effect looms ominous indeed. Dichotomizing our efforts in political divisions will do nothing to further the establishment of justice in our world. Attacking one another and so weaken­ing all the causes for which we struggle defeats the common purpose of all those who fight for human rights. We must all band together in a united effort to save humankind from itself. 
Jim DeMarco Michael Naperkowski Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right-To-Life Sept. 25, 1988 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief·-····-·····----·--··············-···· Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen 
News Editor··········-········--···-······-·····---· Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt'
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tl:le University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the adm1mstrat1on of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman
possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns
Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ______ ········------·-·-· Sandy Cerimele 

IS available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 

campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 



Accent

Monday, September 26, 1988 
page 9 


f Fox program has 'Jump' on competition 
Robinson) a young black as well as toll­rejecting her roots to become free telephone Joe Bucolo a cop, and Officer Doug Pen­numbers viewers hall (Peter DeLuise) the can call to seek 


wisecracking rookie. Their help and guidance. To Be Continued 
captain is Adam Fuller For example, (Steven Williams). after the AIDS 

While most cop shows are episode ("The Big Dis-equally believable as Doug. trapped in a cul-de-sac of ease with the Little Name") The character of Judy has., recycled plotlines, "21 Jump the National AIDS hotline greatly developed due to Street" dares to present new received over 7,000 calls and Holly Robinson's excellent and innovative ones. The au­an increase of calls by 25 per­performance and Dustin dience is presented with a cent during the week follow­Nguyen seems to be an actor refreshing new backdrop. In­ing. Callers identified them­with a bright future ahead of stead of "roll call" or those selves as "21 Jump Street" him. 
annoying scenes in a station viewers. The child abuse The show has given the Fox 
lounges, "21 Jump Street" episode ( "Blindsided") pro­network a rather good jump features a very real high vided the Childhelp, U.S.A. start in its attempt to become school setting. hotline with 723 calls after the a full-fledged competitor to 
Such topics as AIDS, gang show and 1,044 calls the next the three major networks. "21 ''i, violence, teen pornography, night. The hotline usually Jump Street" has enjoye.d in­and gay rights are tackled averages 357 calls. The In­credible ratings during the
'> ~ 

every week. The plots are stitute on Drug Abuse, Center past summer. In fact, it has ,JIIIilll handled maturely and with an for Missing and Exploited beat ABC's "MacGyver" reg­
~· 

edge toward the show's mas­Children, Contact Literacy ularly and more recently, 
T 
sive teenage audience. The Center, and Home-Run (for topped the Sunday ratings in hese days, when manag­Fox network (Channel 55 lo­gruesome realities of these youth runaways) experienced its time slot. ing to stay on the air is a cally) Sundays at 6 p.m. is a conttoversial topics are not similar response after "21 Jump Street" is televi­task in itself for television prime example of just how downplayed, but are empha­episodes dealing with related sion at its best. It has done a shows, an award of some kind excellent television can be. sized to hit home in the problems. tremendous amount of good means all the more. An Based upon an actual police hearts and minds of the in educating the American 
Emmy or a Golden Globe is program taking place nation­viewers. The cast members on this public and bringing to light really a remarkable achieve­wide, the television show fea­While most shows put their street are superb. All relative many social problems. The ment; however, when one of tures four young police offi­"road closed" signs out when unknowns prior to the show, cast members are people to America's largest cities cers masquerading as high faced with these subjects, "21 they have become nationally whom teens can relate. "21 
honors a show with an entire school students. Jump Street" not only wil­recognizable superstars. Jump Street" has paved the day there's really a reason to The team consists of Officer lingly confronts them, but Johnny Depp does a wonder­way for other shows to build celebrate. Recently, Chicago Tom Hanson (Johnny Depp) a even presents public service ful job as Tom and Peter up the Fox television neigh­did just that; it declared Au­second generation police offi­announcements after certain DeLuise (Dom's son) is borhood. gust 21, 1988 "21 Jump Street" cer, Officer H.T. loki (Dustin episodes. Episodes dealing Day. Nguyen) a Vietnamese learn­with AIDS, drug abuse, por­
"21 Jump Street," which ing English by watching TV, nography, and sexual abuse will air on the up and coming Officer Judy Hoffs (Holly feature such announcements 
Intramural athletics solid as COLLEENC_RONIN 'The Rock' and such. On this end of
accent wnter 
L 
campus, more students come ooking out the front win­Rockne Memorial is open un­here to swim -a lot of people dows of O'Shaughnessy til 1 a.m. Many students say our pool is warmer." Hall, the Knute Rockne study late at night and need The Rockne Memorial can Memorial easily can be seen to work off the pressure and easily hold its own against at the other end of campus. stress. The late hours gives the JACC, with two full bas­All students by now at least them an outlet, and enables ketball courts and six addi­
know where the Rockne them to study for a few more tional baskets, handball and hours afterwards because racquetball courts, and a
Memorial is, and odds are 
swimmimg pool, though it is 

that most everyone has had a they are more relaxed. 
not as large as that of the 

physical education class there The Rockne Memorial has 
as well. The Rockne gone through several renova­JACC. Memorial, though, is much tions in the last fifty years. Even those who are not ath­more than simply a building One of the more considerable letically inclined will find the 
changes, said Sparks, in­Rockne Memorial interesting. 
for gym classes and lifting. 
volved "taking off the west Glass cases hold many pieces "The Rock," as it is usually wing and adding on what is of Rockne memorabilia, mostcalled, was built in 1939 as a 
tribute to Notre Dame's now the girls' locker area and of which had just been found womens' faculty. For the in the basement of the build­
renowned football coach, 
most recent renovation, we ing. Another reason to comeKnute Rockne. For those who 
have not yet learned the just completed painting the to the Rockne Memorial said Rockne story, the life of this lockers in the mens' locker Sparks, is that the racquet­
area and redoing the mens' ball courts are shorter, there­
great coach was tragically 
faculty." Though no major fore "anyone who learns here 
cut short on March 31, 1931, The ObserwPErln Cuaack in a plane crash. Rockne was renovations are in the future, can beat almost everyone." only 43 years old. Sparks is hoping to redo the School tradition and athletics are combined at the Rock. 

The cast of "21 Jump Street" are role models for today's teens. 
The Rockne Memorial was bathrooms and showers in the 
Bill Watterson

not built simply to honor future. Rockne's coaching talent. Until 1968, the Rockne IT M\JST BE t. M"-RTl~N ! "Another reason that this Memorial was the only build­01-\ No! 0\-\ NO! IT~ PROBflSL~ facility was built and named ing students had to work out SOME CREEP~, ID\W:L£D, 
after Knute Rockne was that or just play some basketball. BUG-t.~ED 
MONSTtR!

he was always pushing really In 1968, the Joyce ACC was hard for intramural sports, completed, and the students and for a place where stu­had two places to choose dents could work off stress from. According to Sparks, 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~QIJRE. RIG\1I! 

\l"";, (()loiiNG 
n1E.R£'S f>. 

()JT! ~HI\T 
'lt.NTACLE ~! 

~\U. WE: 00!: 
after being behind a desk all the Rockne Memorial has not day," said Jeff Sparks, the suffered in the last twenty Rockne Memorial's super­years, "We have more 
visor. classes here: handball, dan­
~ 

It is for this reason that the cing, gymnastics, volleyball, L---------...J ~---5. ---"L--'111~~>-J L...:I~---L-:L.--_ ____,,--....1 L.::l~Qlo(=....:.·?..:;.·:"=-----==-..L....J 
.J 
page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
A horseback riding trip is being sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics for Sunday, Oct. 2. Trail rides cost $10, and transportation will be provided. Buses will leave the library circle at 11 a.m., 12:35 
p.m. and 2: 10 p.m. each riding session lasting one hour. Limited spaces are available, and one must register and pay in advance at the NVA office. The deadline for registering is Sept. 30. -The Observer 
Stepan Court time requests now are being taken to reserve a court for your hall!organization. Please pick up an application in the Student Activ­ities Office in 315 LaFortune. The deadline for ap­plying is Sept. 30. -The Observer 
Blue and Gold Cards will be sold and exchanged at dining halls during dinner today and Monday. You must have your temporary cards with you to receive a permanent card. -The Observer 
Bill Glasson shot a 2-under-par 69 Sunday during the final round of the $500,000 B.C. open, good enough to give him his first PGA tour victory in three years. 
Glasson finished at 16-under-par 268 for the 72­hole tournament, two strokes ahead of Bruce Lietzke and Wayne Levi, who both made late charges at the leader.-The Associated Press 

----~. ~----------------­
Monday, September 26, 1988 
Stepan Courts will be reserved from 4:15 to 6:15p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday af­ternoons running through Wednesday. The 5-10 and Under Basketball tourney will be held during these times and have priorities on the courts. -The Ob­server 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

n.'*--Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Centa', .:cepta classified ectw.ttslng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtclar. 11le 0....Saln1 ~office, located on the third floor of Haw-conge Cent•, accepts claaalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttuough Frtclar. Oeedllne for next-day claaalfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 
Classifieds be prapeld, elth.-In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:llar-=tenl per day. 
NOTICES  GREAT PARTY CAR!!!! 1970 Chevy lpala Convertible. Power everywhere: 454 engine. power windows and seats.$1 ,700. Call Terry, 287-8865.  I have 2 Miami GAs Call collect at 914­492-1404 with offers My family Is coming to Invade NO. I need MANY GA's lor Miami. Please  NEED MIAMI TICKET ONE STUDENT OR GA CALL CHRIS AT 1598 .  Happy 21st Birthday, Mike Aberle (Notre Dame's favorite South Dakotan) Watch what you say to Michigan State girls (or their mothers).  MEW­I didnl know the meaning of the word lonely until this week. I hope you're finding out what you need to know about yourself.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Want to go to SAN FRANCISCO 4 ThxGiving? Cheap plane ticket for sale. Erin at 4915.  call Jerry 2148. Thanks a lot. Need 1 MIAMI STUD Ticket, Please call ANNE# 3736  PERSONALS  SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 1: MICHELLE LAROSE, alias LaLa, is not yet 21 years old.  I've already found out everything I need to know. When the day comes just call and I'll be there.  
MISS YOU  
WORDPROCESSING 237·1949  Moving must sell: TV, stereo, beds, tables, sofa, sewing machine, micro­wave, and much more call John 288­ I need 2 AF GA's! DAWNx2286 2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES SALE.272-6863  FOR  Happy Birthday Cooter  SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 2: On Wednesday, September 28, LaLa turns 21.  LOVE YOU WANT YOU NEED YOU  
WORD PROCESSING CALL TERRIE'S TYPING 287-1283  2062, Open Apt. Sat. !¥.!4, 8-6pm, 1112 S. 20th St. Apt 505, South Bend  (Sorry your ad isn't longer but we couldn't find anyone willing to chip in.)  SCARY THOUGHT NUMBER 3: LaLa thinks nobody will remember its her  FUZZVEARS  
\ LOST/FOUND I 1'--_nc_K_ET___s___, MIAMVAIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE­ TICKETS NEEDED FOR NO­STANFORD. COLLECT: 215-539-8421. ROSES ARE RED. VIOLETS ARE BLUE. I NEED TWO MIAMI G.A.'S. JOE X1728 JOE needs 2 STANFORD GAs very bad­ ······························ Ballroom Dancers and anyone who just likes to dance: DANCE TO YOUR HEARTS CONTENT at THEODORE'S TONIGHT! PARTY from 7-9 pm everyone who's anyone'll be there  birthday. Hopefully these scary thoughts will make everyone get out and help make La La lolo on her big day. NEED 5 RICE TIX TOGETHER OR IN BLOCKS OF 2 AND 3. AT LEAST 3 GA'S, 2 STUD OR GA. HAVE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S TO TRADE.  ··············· ..... ············ ································ I NEED ONE PENN STATE TICKET-­CALL ALISON x4042 MARK TAYLOR and the Notre Dame band proved once again why they are the oldest and finest marching band!!!  
LOST: a Timex watch, gold colored lace, Roman numerals, day and data, burgandy band. Great sentimental value. If found PLEASE call MaH at # 3610. Thanksl lost: calc.125 ellis and gulick text book 99 in rm.226 of math building name and number in inside cover of text FOUND: HEWLETI!PACKARD CALCU­LATOR IN 107 LIBRARY, THURSDAY S'15 CHECK WITH OBSERVER 9am­3pm. lost: blue flex 3 folder. has " history and geology" on front if found please call mike  MARIA-3769 WONDERFUL FAMILY TO VISIT DOMER SLOB! I need 3 G'A's to AIR FORCE. Call Chris alter 8:00P.M. x3319 ................................................................ NEED 7 MIAMI TICKETS GA CALL SHARON 2845464 ····························· HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIII! I NEED 7 ( YES 7 ) MIAMI GA TIXI!!!! CALL x1245 or x1352 NEED  ly. He'll do just about anything to get them. Make him a happy and satisfied man by selling him yours. Call 272-3405 and do your good deed for the day. NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX. I PROMISED THEM TO SOMEONE. GET ME OUT OF A JAM. CALL DAVE 1418. Desperately need 2 STANFORD tix Call Monica at X267 4 or X3358 MY BROTHER WILL TRADE BEAUTI­FUL EX-WIFE FOR ONE STANFORD GA x1999 NICK  Way to go, NO TRUMPETS! I! We showed the All-American Band who really is America's Band! We've got a tough assignment ahead this weekend, but with some hard work and a good attitude, we'll do great! (I know Mike is looking forward to this weekend-­especially Friday evening.) MAGGIE You dance divinely! Any chance of a repeat performance? Your generic daiA  CALL LAUREN X4041 RIDE FOR 2 NEEDED TO ANYWHERE WITHIN 2 HAS. DRIVE OF NYC FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES -CALL BRIAN AT X2035 oE:sP"E:R".A:iiCv-NEeo·2· PENN-sTATE GAS AND 2 MIAMI STUDENT TIXS. PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT 277-3268 AFTER 5 P.M. I NEED MIAMI STUD TICKETS CALL KAREN 277-2989!  MIKE(3RD FLOOR MORRISSEY)­I'Ll:, CARRY YOUR VCR ACROSS CAMPUS ANYTIME-­BUT FIRST YOU HAVE TO TELL ME YOUR LAST NAME! --KATE HEY TREE---­(FIRST, IS EVERYBODY LISTENING?) SURE WISH YOUR BIRTHDAY COULD HAVE BEEN A MEMORABLE ONE! BUT I GUESS SOME THINGS ARE BET­TER LEFT FORGOTIEN... GOOD LUCK WITH THE REST OF YOUR 21ST YEARI!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DOROTHY!  
at 1789 LOST set of keys on DESMOND FITZ GERALD keychain Please call Karin 272­9903 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . ....... LOST: BROWN,LEATHER WALLET­LOST ON MONDAY,9'19.1T CONTAINS ALL OF MY ICENTIFICATION.PLEASE CALL CHRIS IF FOUND. VERY IMPOR­TANT!! x1566. THANK YOU.  2 AIR FORCE GA'S let Mom & Dad see the Irish! KELLY 288­5737 Need 2 GAs for No-Miami game. Will pay big $$$. Call 284-5666. NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT· BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-Q058. $$$$$  1 STAN-FO-RD & MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE MEGAN X4354 vik~~~~-ND Ia.; stud n~~ds a Stanford GA's or will lose job offer. HELP, PLEASEII 283-2748 Todd I ne~'d..2 ST:A:NFORD' sru·o~3"!iC~ij'j~hn at 3410 NEEDED: 3GA's for PENN ST. I have 2  THE SMC CHAPTER OF THE AMERI­CAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION IS HAPPY TO PRESENT "THE CLIO AWARDS" --1987 AWARD WINNING ADS. JOIN US AT OUR FIRST MEETING ON WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 28 AT 7:30 IN THE HCC GAME ROOM! COME JOIN THE AMA AND THE FUN. DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 1 STAN­FORD STUDENT TICKET.CALL EG­GROLL AT 1 036.(0H-AND . LIZ L. IS  CLASS OF 1991 CLASS OF 1991 DO YOU HAVE A DATE YET??I! THE SOPHOMORE CLASS FALL FOR­MAL IS OCT. 7 BE THERE!!! HAPPY 21s1 BIRTHDAY JOHN HOWARTH You'll never have to drink KOOL-AID again!  George, Tank, and Rob Thanks for let­ting us share your table at the Commons on Friday. Remember &%!k you. No, no, no, no ·i£k you. Lonely Girl, I agree that there ought to be a better way, but I would still very much like to meet you. Just name the lime and the place, and give me something to identify  
Need 2 or 4 GAs-ANY HOME GAME  AIR FORCE GA'S and 1 ST. I will trade  AWESOME!)  you.  
FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST FOR FOOTBALL  x2707 Melissa HELP HELP HELP need FORD GA'S Tony # 2020  five  STAN­ these and-br dish out big bucks. PLEASE call BARRY at # 1201 NEED 5 STANFORD GA's CALL SUSAN 2551  KEV, WHAT UP DUDE! "BE A HERO, FIND ME A G&T. I'M CULTURED!" IT'S BEEN A GREAT 1ST MONTH! PMC  SO CAL CLUB SO. CAL CLUB MEETING: TUES.SEPT. 27  B:OO  Need 2 Stanford GAs 272-7690  OJ  
WEEKENDS. PRIVATE ROOM & BATH.  I NEED STANFORD GA's  PAM,  YOUR  OWN  PERSONAL!  WHERE: LEWIS LOBBY  
10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. (219) 272­5989. FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255­36841.!88-0955 HOUSE FOR RENT OFF ANGELA. CALL 232-3616 4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT NEAR  I NEED STANFORD GA's BIG $$$$$$$$'S CALL ED 1753 I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 284-5221  SELL ME YOUR MIAMI GA'S! CALL KEVIN 4605 2 Miami GA's 4 sale-best offer­Greg(904 )492-1404 Need 4 GA Tix Miami. Call collect 215 94 7 5464-Brian  THANKS FOR DINNER AND ALL YOUR HELP AND ADVICE. GUESS I HAD TO FIND OUT ABOUT THE BIG "L" MYSELF. CHRIS CHRISTIAN-HAPPY 21ST!! DOES THIS MEAN THAT YOU'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO GO OUT NOW?! LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING YOU OUT AT BRIDGET'S INSTEAD OF THE 'BRAR!  QUESTIONS: CALL JENNIFER x3496 Hey--if you are trying to sell Kelly a hate­Miami T-shirt, I DON'T KNOW YOUR NAME therefore, I can't call you. Please leave a message with the roommate or keep trying to call. The number is 2718. thanks ---Kelly.  TO THE THIRD FLOOR SEX FIENDS­JENNY(MARGARET)JESSICA(TEX) AND VIVIAN PLUS EILEEN MYRIAM(J. LONG) AND LEANNE. THANKS FOR BRUCE AND OTHER SIGNS. I LOVE MY DUCKIES! AND THANKS FOR MAKING MY 20TH B-DAY SOOOOO SPECIAL! LOVE CEL BABE  
CAMPUS AVAILABLE NOW $400MO. 654-3977 leave message ROGM FOR RENT, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. FOR INFO CALL CHRIS x1073 WANTED  NEED STANDFORD STUD OR GA TIXS. CALL MIMI X4447 NO Grad need 2 tkts MiamVND Oct. 15­18005265361-Kate or after 6 pm­2013625748 collect. ·························································· WILL EXCHANGE MY 4 STANFORD GA'S OR PAY FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL CLAIRE 272-5989. 'SAMMY NEEDS TICKETS • TWO  FOR SALE: 1 GA for each Miami & AF games. Call X-4864. SELLING ALL STUDENT TICKETS 272­9903 STANFORD!! Need to trade 2 student tix for 2 GA's. PLEASE call Mimi at 284­5221 WILL PAY $40 FOR ANY MIAMI TIX. 284-5088.  HAVE A GOOD ONE-LOVE, JO SIR GALAHAD. YOU ARE VERY CLEVER WITH RHYME AND WORD. PERHAPS A POEM WOULD OPEN MY HEART, AND SUADE ME TO MEET AT A PLACE WHERE THOU ART. YOUNG GIRL AVOID THE RUSH!! I! Hate Rice Early!!l  Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher This is your new knickname. Live with it. You will never get rid of it. Your secret admirer SOPHOMORES HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TO A DANCE WITH JUST SOPHOMORES?? GET INVOLVED WITH YOUR CLASS FALL FORMAL OCT. 7  DEAR DAWN MARIE, SPECIAL THANKS TO YOU FOR EVERYTHING: MY HAPPY• B-DAY, ALL THE TIMES YOU ARE THERE FOR ME, THE GREAT MEMORIES, AND JUST FOR BEING MY ROOMIE. I LOVE YOU! CECELIA A lonely, good-looking man is looting for Penn State tickets, either student or GA.  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to provide FREE PREGNANCY TESTING AND COUNSELING CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES 234-3111 WANTED --Part-time waitresses to work evenings and weekends. Friendly atmo­sphere,descent pay. If interested call 234-1067,Ask for Betty or Greg. HIRINGI Government jobs -your area. $15,D00-$68,000. Call (602) 838-8885.  STANFORD GA & 1 STUDENT (OR 3 GA) PLEASE CALL 288-6207 MI-AM-I still in need of 2 GA's call Jim at 1647 ················································· desparely need 2 gas for miami (upset) game 2723491 NEED TWO GA'S & 1 STUDENT TIX FOR MIAMI PARENTS WILLING TO PAY 'BIG$$$$ CALL STEPH 1319 WILL SELL MY TWO MIAMI STUD. TICKETS TO HIGHEST BIDDER ON 000 LEAVE OFFER AT 277-7298  Dude. I need Miami tickets. Bad. I'll pay anything reasonable. Call x2343. Make an offer. I NEED ONE AIR FORCE GA CALL JANET X3425 MI-AM-I in need of 3 Miami stud tix and 1 Miami GA please call $$JEFF at 3528 $$ NEED 2 RICE GA'S CALL STEVE AT 3375 I Need 1-2 MIAMI # 1934 I need 2 Stanford GA's--Call Chris 239­ N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tatty $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, LA COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, LA, CA90037. 213-741­1338. PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB OctoberBus October Bus Sign Up Sign Up MondaY Sept 26 7:00 Sorin Room LaFortune  GREG MATEO HAS A CUTE BEHIND ··············· ..... ···················· ..... Boober Crayon -oThat Chick was mar­ginal at best; your judgement was in error. I guess what they say is true, Bob; NO CHICK IS UGLY AFTER TWO A.M.!! -541 Park Lane SUB Presents: THE SMITHEREENS THE SMITHEREENS THE SMITHEREENS With Paul Kelly and the Messengers Oct. 12, 8:00PM Stepan Ctr  Will oHer sexual sacrifices at any hour. Call Danny at # 1450 Help! I need a ride to Boston Mass for Oct Break Will help pay expenses! Call Jason x2343 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY TO MIKE ABERLE From The 3 SPOOGES (aka Your Roomies) Happy Birthday, JULES! We're so glad you're staying!!! We love ya'!l Sorry this is late!Love, The Clique  
EXT 6262. HELP WANTED. Student or staff mem­ber to sit with our infant Tues, Thurs & Fri noons at Rolf's while we swim. $1 (}Week. Call Barry or Kelly days 239­5755.  NEED AIR FORCE AND MIAMI GAS­CALL 3348 FOR $$$$ ···············'····· TRADE 1 PENN ST. FOR 1 MIAMI, 2 RICE, OR CASH. MIKE X4103 WANTED 6 MIAMI GAs No Reasonable Offer Refused Call x4702 and leave a  7514. NEED 4 STANFORD STUD. TIX MIKE 1380 Miami GA for sale.Leave offers x2956. ···································· I HAVE MANY TIX FOR ND-AF. WILL  HEY VIV HAPPY BIRTHDAY! We've had Iota of laughs and I bet there will be many morel Yo\l're awesome!..................................................•............. THE SALAD BAR SYR IS COMING THE ONLY SYR WITH BARS IS COM­ING  SUB and Theodore's Present: SCRUFFY THE CAT SCRUFFY THE CAT SCRUFFY THE CAT With Green Sept. 29, 9:00PM Theodore's  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GOMER' UTILE ARGENTINIAN BOY (a.k.a. Studmuffin) Happy anniversary babe! Thanks for the best six months ever! My only hope is that the next six will be even better. Love, Forever and Always, Your one and only, PAIN IN THE ASSI  
FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME.  message MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED FOR MOM AND DAD AND THEIR FRIF-~DS. 6 GA, 4 STUD. WILLING TO TroADE STAN­FORD GA'S. CALL 233-3027. STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED 3 STUDS 2 GA'S CALL JIM 1935 I NEED Miami St. Tix x-2235  TRADE OR SELL. CALL COLLECT 312-563-5840 OR 312-599-3210. I NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, STANFORD, RICE, PENN ST. CALL COLLECT 312­563-5840 OR 312·599-3210. NEED PENN ST. TKTS.(ST OR GA) WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALL JOE 277­0725  THE SALAD BAR SYR LADIES, BRACE YOURSELVES THE SALAD BAR SYR IS COMING Hey -lcksl! Handyman-"Yep, this thing Ia sturdy all right." Horae Dork­·"Pant, pant, naaaaaaaayllam extrodl­nary." Fozzy-"Wacka wacka...my roommates are Different." Love 1 ,2,3 ... the Accountant  I WILL PAY$20 FOR YOUR STANFORD STUD. TICKET CALL CHRIS 272-8689 NOW I JILANNE Why is everything in this place red, white and blue except for that pink thing up there????????? ······················· A SURE CURE FOR HICCUPSI!I! JUUE FESSEL IS 21 TODAY!!II AAAHHI!I!  KERRY W. The 2nd best looking guy on Grace's 2nd floor. You have a great body and we hope to see more of it soon. Love, Ashley and Heather KRISTEN MANCUSO PW's ROTC goddess Last year as a kid---Do it right! We love you!! --3b.  

Monday, September 26, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Dodgers have to wait to clinch 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Dennis Cook threw a two­hitter and Donell Nixon and Mike Aldrete hit run-scoring singles Sunday as the San Francisco Giants beat Los Angeles 2-0, preventing the Dodgers from clinching the National League West. 
Cincinnati beat Atlanta 2­1, keeping the Dodgers' magic number at one. Los Angeles, which leads the Reds by seven games with seven games remaining, opens a three-game series Monday night at San Diego. 
Red Sox 6, Yankees 0 
NEW YORK --Roger Clemens pitched seven shutout innings as the Bos­ton Red Sox stopped the New York Yankees 6-0 Sunday and reduced their magic number to three for clinch­ing the American League East. 
Boston began the day 41/2 games ahead of Milwaukee and New York. Detroit was five back. The Red Sox are seeking their second AL east title in three years. 
Clemens, 18-11, overcame Rickey Henderson's line drive off his pitching arni in the first inning and scat­tered five singles. 
In other major league ac­tion, Detroit swept Bal­timore in a doubleheader 7-1 
and 7-4. Cleveland beat Toronto 4-3 and the White Sox edged Kansas City 6-5. Milwaukee beat Oakland 4-2, Seattle topped Texas 8-5 and Minnesota topped the Angels 6-2. 
In the National League, the Phillies beat the Cubs 8­5, San Diego crushed Hous­ton 9-1, the Pirates beat the Cubs 7-4. 

Belles up record to 3-0 
By MOLLY McNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team continued its winning season by shutting out the Purdue Boilermakers, 3-0. 
Greer Gilliland was the first of the Belles to strike, scoring an una£Sisted goal just six minutes into the first half. 
Greer intercepted the ball at midfield, dribbled down the length of the field and booted it in the net from 20 yards out. 
The Belles had many other scoring opportunities through­out the half, but the tough Purdue defense refused all but one of the Belles' 18 first-half shots. 

The Belles came out strong in the second half, working to get an insurance goal early on. After failing to capitalize on three corner kicks, Kelly Fraleigh put one in the upper right corner, giving the Belles a 2-0 edge. 
With five minutes remaining in the game, a Boilermaker penalty resulted in a direct kick for the Belles. 
Kelly Cook took the shot, which went off a Boiler defender and into the goal finishing the scoring in the Belles victory. 
The Belles take a 5-0 record into their next home game Wednesday against the Univer­sity of Wisconsin. 

YOU.RE ltf FOR MORE THA.tf YOU EXPECTED IF YOU JUST EXPECTED SWEATERS! 
WOOL SCARVES, FISHERMAN KNITS, HEAVY AND LIGHT WEIGHT SKI SWEATERS; OVER 15 STYLES. WE ARE A MOTHER-DAUGHTER COMPANY COMMITTED TO PROVIDING A HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT FOR A COLLEGE STUDENTS BUDGET. ALL OF OUR SWEATERS ARE FULLY GUARANTEED. PERIOD. WE EVEN PUT OUR PHOl'iE NU11BER ON THE LABEL. 
IMl~Slf!E: IRC~IRII), \Y051 ~ ~IN] II) IPlH: IR!51 0 INI ~ IL. &lHIIH: &~ ~ ~d!GIH: IP'lr!H:II) W'HE'Rt: Room 002 W'HEV: Monday Basement of La Fortune Student Center through Friday 

presents 
MARRIAGE ENRICHMENT SERIES 
Mabel Webster Davis from Family & Children's Services Inc. on 

CHANGES IN FAM/L Y STRUCTURE: HOW THEY AFFECT YOUR MARRIAGE 
Wednesday, Sept. 28th 7:30pm Center for Social Concern 

Topics Include: How the married relationship is affected by: 
-the birth of a first child -assuming the care of an elderly parent -the "empty nest syndrome" -when adult children move back home 
more information, call the Office of Campus Ministry Badin Hall 239-5242 

Mi&aeA 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
middle for the score. 
Watters then returned his second punt of the year for a touchdown, accelerating what was already becoming a blowout. 
The Purdue offense contin­ued to sputter under McCarthy, who completed 9-of-19 for 51 yards and two George Streeter interceptions. 
"The first one he threw right at me," said Streeter. "We noticed from the films that he looked down a receiver. But it wasn't that easy. They execute their pass offense very well." 
Freshman Brian Fox replaced McCarthy with 3: 57 left in the half, and he was greeted by a Pat Terrell inter­ception. 
Meanwhile, the Irish already were on their third quarter­back. Senior Steve Belles threw the first touchdown pass of his career when he hit Brooks over the middle. The converted ful­lback caught the pass at the Purdue 34, and ran untouched into the end zone. With the score 42-0, the game was just about decided. 
"All we could do in the second half is try to get some­thing positive going for us," said Akers, who also had 

E.CE8Jll<.Nl <JlJllSSJ\8E <Jl<JlESE<NIS MlteE3'tt4 100%
SWEATERS I 
VD<Jl8D1\I 
CWOO£,

* WHOLESALE PRICES * 
several more linemen fall to in­juries in the game. "Not in terms of erasing 42 points,"but trying to do something we could build with." 
Likewise, the Irish used the second half to give the second and third teams a lot of work. Billy Hackett's 44-yard field goal and tailback Rodney Cul­ver's 36-yard scamper around the right end, both their first careeer points, capped the Irish scoring. 
In the fourth quarter the second-team defense stopped Purdue with a first-and-goal at the four, but on the next drive Fox found Calvin Williams in the end zone for a 10-yard touchdown pass, breaking the shutout. Sophomore saftey Greg Davis stopped the last Boilermaker drive with an in­terception. 
IRISH ITEMS --The Irish emerged injury-free except for Belles, who strained ligaments in his left knee. His status is day-to-day. 
football box 
Saturday'• Game Purdue 0 0 0 7 7 Notre Dame 14 28 3 7 52 
Scoring 

NO-Rice 38-yard run (Ho kiCk) NO-Brown 8-yard pass from Rice (Ho kick) NO· Ismail 54-yard pass from Rice (Ho kick) NO-Green 7-yard run (Ho kick) NO-Watters 66-yard punt return (Ho kick) NO-Brooks 34-yard pass from Belles (Ho kick) NO-Hackett 44-yard field goal NO-Culver 36-yard run (Hackett kick) PU-Williams 1Q-yard pass from Fox (Sullivan kick) 
PU NO First downs t 5 20 Rushing attempts 29 57 
Net Yards Rushing 100 321 Net Yards Passing 167 147 Passes comp-attempted 19-42 8-14 Had intercepted 5 1 Total Net Yards 267 468 Fumbles-lost o-o 1-1 Penalties-yards 8-49 4-30 Punts-average 9-41.3 4-37.7 lndlvlduel LNdera 
RUSHING· Purdue: Schramayer 6-43; Fox 6-24; 
Scales 7-14; Nelson 5·14; Myles 5-5. 
Notre Dame: Brooks 11·110; Rice 5-67; Culver 10· 
61; Green 8·28; Belles 4-22; Watters 4-15: Setzer 
6-12; Satterfield 2-9; K. Graham 2-3; P. Graham 
2-Q; Jarosz 2-(-2); Ebert t-(-4). 
PASSING-Purdue: McCarthy 9-19-2, 51; Fox t0­
23-3, 116. 
Notre Dame: Rice 4-6-Q, 85; Belles 1-3-Q, 34; P. 
Graham 1-2-Q, 16; K. Graham 2·3·1, 12. 
RECEIVING-Purdue: C. Williams 5-72; Scales 
4-16; McManus 3-24; O'Connor 3-18; Moore 2-26; 
Graham 1-7: Nelson 1-2. 
Notre Dame: Ismail 3-80: Ellers 2-23; Brooks 1-34: 
Brown 1-6; Mihalko 1·2. 
Attendance-59,075 

-· 
page 12 The Observer Monday, September 26, 1988 
Bills, Bengals both win to run NFL records to 4-0 
Associated Press 
Perfection still suits the Buf­falo Bills and Cincinnati Ben­gals after four weeks of NFL action. 
The Bills stayed unbeaten with a 36-28 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers Sunday as Robb Riddick scored two quick touchdowns in the third quar-. ter, one on a blocked punt, and Scott Norwood kicked five field goals. 
The Bengals, a last-place team in the AFC central last year, moved to 4-0 by scoring all their points in the first half in a 24-17 decision against Cleveland. lckey Woods had a pair of 1-yard scoring runs and Lewis Billups went 26 yards for a score after recovering Kevin Mack's fumble. 
The Bengals have the right rhythm as they've gotten out of the gate faster than any Cincin­nati team since 1975, Paul Brown's last season as coach, when they were 6-0. 
Bears 24, Packers 6 

Chicago extended its recent mastery in the NFL's longest rivalry with its seventh straight, keeping Green Bay winless this year. 
Neal Anderson ran for two touchdowns and the Bears struck for 17 points in the final five minutes of the first half. Chicago also sacked Randy Wright five times and inter­cepted him twice, including once in the end zone by Shaun 
Gayle to stop a fourth-quarter drive. 
Jets 17, Lions 10 
The Jets won their third straight game as Ken O'Brien completed 27 of 38 passes for 253 yards and two touchdowns. O'Brien, who connected with AI Toon 10 times for 75 yards, found Wesley Walker alone in the corner of the end zone with 

9: 39 remaining for a game­winning 26-yard pass. 
New York's defense, which had not allowed a touchdown the last two weeks, gave up a 1-yard scoring run to Garry James in the third quarter. 
Cowboys 26, Falcons 20 
Disaster had been Steve Pel­luer's companion late in games this year. In both of Dallas' losses, Pelluer threw defeat­
clinching interceptions. 
This time, the fifth-year 
quarterback turned it around, 
hitting Ray Alexander for a 29­
yard score with 1: 48 to play. 
Other scores 
In other action Sunday, Dean Biasucci kicked five field goals to lead the Colts past the Dol­phins 15-13. Allen Pinkett scored three touchdowns to lead Houston past New En­gland 31-6. The Vikings edged the Eagles 23-21 nad the Saints topped the Buccaneers 13-9. 

. .1 9 a a o 1 9 a 9
USC stuns the Sooners, 23-7 
Associated Press 
Rodney Peete completed 16 

of 34 passes for 198 yards and 
rushed for 40 yards as Southern 
Cal improved its series record 
against the Sooners to 4-2-1. 
The outcome was decided in 

the first half, when the Sooners 
couldn't move the ball across 
the 50-yard line. 
The season Texas A&M began with dreams of estab­lishing itself as one of college 
Offense 
continued from page 16 
receivers. One series later on third and five from the Purdue 48, Rice hit a sliding Pat Eilers for a 10-yard gain. On the next play, Rice kept on the option and rambled 38 yards for the first Irish touchdown. · 
In the next Notre Dame se­ries, Rice again hit a diving Eilers for another third-down conversion at the Notre Dame 
34. Six plays later, Rice hit a wide-open Derek Brown for the touchdown. 
"I thought all along that if we get Tony some protection, he would be an awesome quar­terback," offensive guard Tim Grunhard said. "He proved the critics wrong. He hit the long pass, the short pass, ran and scrambled." 
Rice chose the dramatic ap­proacli for his passing encore in the next Irish series. 
On the first play from scrim­mage, Rice faked a hand-off and hit a streaking Ismail down the middle for his second pass­ing touchdown of the afternoon. 
"We proved to everybody that we can pass," Rice said. "If we didn't prove anything, we would have to start over. We have a lot of confidence in the passing game. We just have to keep on performing well." 
Overall, Irish quarterbacks completed 8-of-14 passes for 147 yards. Not bad statistics con­sidering Purdue brought the nation's top-rated pass defense into Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We hoped to make them throw when we wanted them to, but we couldn't," Boiler coach Fred Akers said. "We had no illusions. We knew Rice could throw the ball." 
More importantly, the emer­gence of the passing game es­tablished Notre Dame as a two­dimensional team. No longer do the Irish need to rely on the running game to control the tempo. No longer can opposing defenses key on the Notre Dame backfield. 
When Purdue began to defend against the pass, the Irish did indeed go back to the running game. On the play • after Rice found Eilers for the 
football's elite is rapidly turn­Fla., beat Wisconsin, 23-3. In ing into a nightmare. games matching ranked The Aggies, lOth-ranked in teams, No. 5 Southern Califor­

the Associated Press nia beat No. 3 Oklahoma 23-7; preseason poll heading into the No. 14 South Carolina defeated Aug. 27 Kickoff Classic against No.6 Georgia 23-10; and No. 11 
then No.2 Nebraska, are 0-3 West Virginia handled No. 16 
after losing to No. 18 Oklahoma Pittsburgh 31-10. I student State 52-15 Saturday. No.2 UCLA had the week off 
11nion The Cowboys should be to prepare for its early Pac-10 

presents climbing higher after a showdown with No. 17 Wash­weekend that saw three Top 10 ington, which defeated San Jose 
teams lose, while No.1 Miami, State 35-31 Saturday. 
I 

second time, fullback Tony with a career-high 109 yards on · Brooks ran up the middle for 11 carries. He was forced into 31 yards. the fullback spot last Saturday 
Three series later with 8: 52 after Braxton Banks and An­to play in the half, the Irish thony Johnson both went down rush was on as they ran the ball ..with injuries. six straight times for 90 yards "I thought Tony Brooks and a touchdown. Brooks again really played well," Holtz said. had the big plays with gains of "We changed our offense this 31 and 11 yards. week so the fullback would do 
Brooks, playing with a stress more running and not have to fracture in his foot, finished block that much." 
DJv-S,yY 
ROOTS First eptsod.!: Wednesday, Sept. 21 He$burgb Lib•·ary Auditorium 
7:00 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. 

Remaining episodes: 
Wednesday Sept. 28; Oct. 5, 12, 26; and Nov. 2 
tickets available to students, faculty, and staff altho GSU Office 1307 
Lafortune) ar at the door 
ADMISSION: $1.50 (per eplsotlel or $4.00(a//fit'e slmtl'ingsl 
u..... I v E· R 5 .• j y 0 ! N 0 ' R D A M'E . 
START 
EXECUTIVE 

TRAINING NOW 
Leadership Exrellence Starts Here 
aeS.-Soviet Relations: Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 10 p.m. WHERE: JACC TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff 
$6-adults 

Tickets should be purchased in advance. 
Now On Sale M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC 
Also will be sold in the dining halls 
----------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~-------------------------------­
Monday, September 26, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Aussies beat Soviets; Louganis dives again 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea--The long-anticipated clash between the United States and the Soviet Union in women's basketball won't decide the Olympic gold medal after all. 
Instead, the semifinal game Tuesday morning (Monday night CDT> will only determine who will play for the gold Thursday morning <Wednesday night CDT). The loser can do no better than a bronze. 
The other semifinal matchup pits Australia against Yugos­lavia. 
The U.S.-Soviet game had been expected to decide the championship. But a prema­ture matchup was created Sun­day by Australia's 60-48 upset of the Soviets. 'The loss, their second In the preliminary round, dropped the Soviets to second place io their division. 
The Americans, who topped their division by going unde­feated, completed preliminary play Sunday by dumping China 94-79. 
The American and Soviet wo­
men have met only once before 
in Olympic play, the Soviets 
winning 112-77 in a 1976 semi­
final. 
The Soviets went on to win 
the gold that year, the first that 
women's basketball was an 
Olympic medal sport. 
-The Soviets also won the gold 
in 1980 when the United States 
boycotted the Moscow Games. 
In 1984, it was the Soviets who boycotted, and the Americans won the gold in Los Angeles. 
A U.S.--Soviet gold matchup appears still on track in men's volleyball. The undefeated Americans wrap up prelimi­nary play Monday night against winless Tunisia, while in the other division the unde­feated Soviets play Brazil, whose only loss was an upset to South Korea. 
American Greg Louganis doesn't have Soviets to fear as much as a 10-meter tower. A week after inflicting a five­stitch gash on his head by hit­ting the 3-meter springboard, Louganis goes for the gold Tuesday morning in platform diving. 
He will be trying to become the first man to win both the springboard and platform golds in consecutive Olympics. 
He won the springboard last week by shaking off the effects of his scrape with the board in the preliminaries. Striking his head on the three-story high platform could be much more severe. 
He hit his head on a platform once before, in the Soviet Union in 1979. He was unconscious for 20 minutes. 
Louganis admitted being nervous and frightened before last week's springboard finals, but he overcame his anxiety. 
"Fear is a part of anything that you do, whether it's in business or sports," he said. "You always have to take a chance to have big rewards." 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
Feature's Photo Editor 
For further information contact 
Mike Moran by Tuesday, Sept. 27 at 12 noon 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
ROOTS 
EPISODE I­
EPISODE 2­
EPISODE 3­
EPISODE 4­
EPISODE 5­
EPISODE 6­

All showings at the 
! 

After the medals, life goes on 
Associated Press the Olympic Games, not 
only have I won an Olympic 
SEOUL, South Korea-­medal, not only an Olympic Matt Biondi must look in the gold medal, but I won seven mirror now, and wonder who Olympic medals in one will be looking back. He Olympics. ... It's a hard came to make history, and thing to grasp." he will leave, seven medals And yet, in the next later, to make a new life. breath, Biondi recalls how 
Matt Biondi the swimmer his trunks wound up is no longer. Matt Biondi the wrapped around his feet in backpacker is. the first swim meet he en­So is Matt Biondi, water tered. Then, he adds, almost 
polo player. Matt Biondi, reflexively: spokesman for the environ­"I have memories just like ment. And Matt Biondi, in-every other kid and every spiration for every other person. 
swimming toddler in "I'm human, I do every­America. thing like everybody else 
To be Matt Biondi now-­does. Except one thing. In promises made, promises one aspect of a discipline." kept--is to face a nearly bot­If Americans still devour tomless pool of possibilities. their heroes in TV-sized 
First, though, he will just bites, then Biondi should try to be Matt Biondi. have it made. 
"As a child, you always He is tall enough to fill, a dream of the Olympic frame--Mark Spitz wasn't-­Games and you sort of see dark enough to sell suntan athletes on television as su­oil--Janet Evans isn't--and perheroes," he said. "Like handsome enough to hawk 
Superman, and Mighty cars. But that isn't near the Mouse and all those tremen­top of his agenda. At least dously strong and un­not right away. defeatable people. 
"And now," he said, "I put "I've got an agent, but I that in perspective with don't know how that what I've done. (commercial endorse­"Not only did I make it to ments) will work out," he 

September 28, 7:00 p.m. 
For the facts call your loo.:al Rtd Cross. or write• AIDS 
+
Amertcan Red Cross l:l'l'::

September 28, 9:00 p.m. 
Wlshingwn, DC 20006 

October 5, 7:00 p.m. October 5, 9:00 p.m. October 12, 7:00 p.m. 


said. "But I don't see myself doing anything I'm not com­fortable with." 
Like what? 
"Underwear," he shot back. "And posters. I'm un­comfortable outside the con­text of swimming about being on somebody's wall." 
That is one thing that didn't seem to bother Spitz after the 1972 Munich Games. 
When he returned, seven golds draped around his neck, seven world records in his pocket, Spitz didn't mind signing contracts, but like a supernova, he was gone from public sight almost as soon as he was noticed. And 16 years later, the most memorable thing about Spitz remains his ac­complishments and the long, impenetrable shadow they cast over the 6-foot-6 Biondi. 
Biondi was, from the out­set, a reluctant heir to the legacy. He said he wanted seven medals of any color, but everybody else wanted seven gold. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
TI-lE CONSTITUTION 
~n,c \\nrJ..,. wr li\'(· ~· ·'' I ,,,,. '' I I'~\,,. ~ 
(§]Jamicm~~
October 12, 9:00 p.m. October 26, 7:00 p.m. October 26, 9:00 p.m. ~D ggNovember 2, 7:00 p.m. November 2, 9:00 p.m. 
HBPJ!J 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium Majoraly, 
with love from 
$ 1.50 per episode 
D.Ongais, M. Andretti,

$ 4.00 for all episodes 
Rabbit, Nettie, Anniemoo, Katie-Kate and Nikita, too. 

~­
page 14 The Observer Monday, September 26, 1988 
•

Irish soccer teams combine for four weekend WinS 

The Observer I Eric Bailey

It was a big weekend at Moose Krause Field as the Notre Dame women's soccer team swept its men's team. Pete Gegen details the men's action weekend opponents in two shutouts, as did the below and the women's two victories at right. 
-
.

Men w1n two physical battles 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team gave Western Michigan and Southern Birmingham a lesson in physical soccer this weekend at Krause Stadium. 
Forcing the guest tea-ms out of their short-pass, ball-control games, the Irish busted the Broncos 3-0 Friday night and tamed the Panthers 5-0 Sun­day. 
"We had a set game plan,"· said Southern Birmingham co­ach Preston Goldfarb, "but we never executed it. We couldn't adjust to Notre Dame's style of play, They play very hard for 90 minutes, never letting up." 
Playing their best team defense of the season, the Irish and keeper Danny Lyons regis­tered two important shutouts. Tight marking by Danny Gor­
don,  Dave  Augustyn,  Mike  
Drury,  and  Steve  and  Paul  
LaVigne frustrated  both  

teams, especially the Western Michigan forwards. 
"As soon as we'd go to turn with the ball, they would be on us," said Bronco coach Blake Glass, who was unhappy with the officiating in the match Friday. "When I coach, I rely on the referee to allow us to play our game, but he was let­ting it go." 
Forward Randy Morris was the offensive star against the Broncos, assisting freshman Mitch Kern on the first goal at 19:06, and then beating two Western Michigan defenders with dazzling moves to score an unassisted goal at 55:02. 
"Their sweeper was coming on," said Morris of the play. "The only thing I could do was push the ball between the defenders and pop through. And the goal was open, so I shot. 
"You really don't think on a play like that. You just see an opening and go." 
John Guignon knocked home a rebound at 83:54 to finish the scoring. 
Sunday Irish forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt started the fireworks with two goals, in-eluding a rocket which Panther keeper Stefan Hofer couldn't handle. 
"The grass wasn't wet, so I was able to cut and control the ball better," said McCourt, who has been slowed by a sore foot. 
Another blast by McCourt was saved by Hofer, but Morris put home the rebound at 37:11 to make the score 3-0. Joe Sternberg added two second-half goals on assists from Kern and Morris. 
As it became more evident in 


OliVERSift PIZZA DELIVERY 
I 

THIS WEEK'S SPECIALS: I Men (9/26} 1/2 sheet with 2 toppings $9.99 
I 
the second half that the Irish would win their eighth game of the year, the-physical play on the field turned ugly. Irish for­ward Steve Archer suffered a collarbone injury when Pan­ther midfielder Oliver Lurz ran over Archer on a "violent charge" infraction. Later Lurz sent Irish midfielder Warrick Muldrow head-over-heels with a tackle, yet the referee did not even give Lun a caution. 
"I wasn't happy with how many fouls weren't called," 
-said Irish coach Dennis Grace. "We're getting too many injur­ies. As the game wore down and they knew they lost, they did some things to hurt us." 
Any danger of a letdown in Sunday's game against Bir­mingham Southern, an NAJA school, was erased by a -few words from the Panther coach. Several Irish players indicated that word had gotten back to them that Goldfarb called Notre Dame "an average team" after watching Friday night's game. "We had no prob­lem getting psyched up for this game," said Morris. 
IRISH ITEMS --McCourt's foot and Archer's injury adds to a growing list of injured Irish players. Morris and both LaVignes are playing through lower leg injuries, and Lyons is playing with a sore knee. 

Women roll over Adrian 7-0, topple St, Joe's again, 3-0 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
58-1. 

That was the final shots-on­goal totals for the Notre Dame women's soccer team's two games this weekend. 
And, yes, that lone shot on goal by a St. Joseph's player was saved, and the Irish rolled two shutout wins over Adrian 7-0 and St. Joseph's <Ind.) 3-0. 
Friday afternoon the Irish teed off on Adrian, outshooting the small Michigan college 37­
0. Alicia McNeill scored twice and Mimi Suba had a goal and an assist. K.T. Sullivan, Julie Constantini, Susan Haling and Susie Zilvitis each added single tallies. 
If the sport were basketball, Irish coach Dennis Grace would be accused of padding the schedule just to make the tournament. But as Grace ex­plains, these mismatches in the first year of varsity women's soccer at Notre Dame could not be helped. 
"Because the promotion of the girls' team to varsity hap­pened so late," explained Irish coach Dennis Grace. "we had to make as many concessions in scheduling as possible to get a full complement of games in­stead of just 11 or 12. We will upgrade the schedule next year. -Sunday's game against St. Joseph's is a prime example of this problem. Two weeks ago the Irish blasted St. Joseph's 8-1 at Renssalaer, Ind., but a rematch was already sched­uled at Notre Dame. 
Predictably the Irish wasted no time jumping to a big lead over St. Joseph's Sunday. Joy Sisolak and Susie Zilvitis each had unassisted goals and K.T. Sullivan added a third just before halftime. 
At halftime Grace decided to make fullback Kelly Hanratty a goalkeeper, forcing his team to concentrate more on ball control than teeing off at the St. Joseph's goal. The move helped, as the Irish did not al­low a single shot on goal in the second half. 

________________________,_____ 
-

PLAY THE UNIV. PIZZA FB POOL (no purchase necessary) WIN A 2 TOPPING FULL SHEET & 6 SODAS 
Tues (9/27} buy any 1/4 sheet and get 2 free Cokes 0
I R you expect to be scored in the tiebraker game. Wed (9/28) 1/2 sheet with 4 toppings $10.99 s I 2. Give your entry to a UPD driver, or drop in our Thurs (9/29) 2 free Cokes with' any pizza oraer I store by 3 am Sat 10/1/88 
3. Persons with most correct picks wins, in the 
I T y
I 
event of a tie, the person closest to actual points 
scored in the tiebraker game wins. Winner will be

FREE DELIVERY 
p announced on Mon. Oct. I 0, 1988.
I 
I

277-8889 I z 
University Pizza Delivery I z Narne________________ 18055 State Road 23 A Address______
I

(behind Campus View) phone.________
I 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING, 
' . ' --6 I\ ­
•-! • ' I_ l . , ,' , i-­
..,\· ~~-/~ '
1 -' . I ~/ J ·--. "· -~~,~ _.· ---,..-­
' ''I • ' • 
~
"::J~_.,__ -~~­
DOH l DIIVl ORUJUI, 0'11 RID( WITH A"YON1 WHO DOl\ 


Presents a lecture by 
Reverend Richard McCormick, S.J. John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics University Of Notre Dame 
On 

"The Bishop On AIDS: Compassion Or Compromise?" 
Noon THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 ROOM 220 LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
u N I 
RULES
v 
I. To enter, circle the team you expect to win each 
E 
f the 12 games listed. Also, enter the total points 
112 sheet $1 OFF 

THIS WEEK'S GAMES (October 1, 1988) 
STANFORD  AT  NOTRE DAME  
MICHIGAN  AT  WISCONSIN  
IOWA  AT  MICHIGAN ST  
MINNESOTA  AT  PURDUE  
usc  AT  ARIZONA  
NEW MEXICO  AT  AIR FORCE  
TEXAS  AT  RICE  
MISSOURI  AT  MIAMI  
YALE  AT  NAVY  
PENN ST  AT  TEMPLE  
PITTSBURGH  AT  BOSTON COLLEGE  
HOUSTON  AT BAYLOR  

TIEBRAKER: ENTER TOTAL POINTS SCORED IN N.D.-STANFORD GAME._______ 

,_:\·~[;,

Open until Midnight Sun-Thurs 
Matt Highbarger 

Your entry is worth $foff any half sheet 112 sheet
Open until 3am Fri/Sat 
'NO '89 owner 

exoires10/1/88 J~F 

...__----------------------·....--.... 
Monday, September 26, 1988 The Observer page 15 
~AM PUS 
9:30 a.m. CCBVIE, Session 2, Cultural Perspectives, CCE. 
1:00 p.m. CCBVIE Session 3, Business Value Perspec­tives, CCE. 
3:00 p.m. SMC Tennis vs. Tri-State University, SMC Tennis Courts. 
3:15p.m. CCBVIE Session 4, Institutional Perspectives, CCE. 
7:00 
p.m. ND Communication and THeatre Film "Playtime," directed by Jacques Tati, Annenber Auditorium. 

7:00 
p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all MCC, MIS, CAPP and ECE seniors interested in careers with Eli Lilly and Company in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 


8:00 p.m. CCBVIE Session 5, Reflections, CCE. 
9:_oo ~.m. _ND Communication and Theatre Film "Open City, directed by Roberto Rosselini, Annenberg
Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Italian Beef Sandwich Turkey Divan Pasta Primavera BBQ Pork Ribs 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
..Yril'5. 'PK OI.JY€K'5 CRT 
Li '!i£Ar XIILP ffJNIC. CO.'' v.#/5 f(}f(JtiEil... 
Saint Mary's 

Morrocan Lemon Chicken Beef and Bean Burritos Broccoli and Cheddar Quiche Deli Bar 
• 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
I Pay a visit 5 Asian serpent 10 "Aeneid" starter 14 "-ofthe Mind," Shepard play 15 Browning's 
Ben Ezra, e.g. 16 Prejudice 17 Symphonic 
favorite 20 Guard 21 Dodgerof 
yore 22 Guest room, sometimes 23 Mild expletives 
25 Captain 29 Tunes 30 Baste 33 Funnyman 
Johnson 34 Cook's cover 35 Employ 36 Popular piano 
piece 40 Prefix for bar or gram 41 Architectural 
ridge 42 Finished 43 Conger 44 Faded away 45 Accent 47 Otherwise 48 Dep. 49 Cinematic 
Superman 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



52 Rascal 57 Virtuoso's 
showpiece 60 Dock 61 Dahl of"Kiss 
Kiss" 62 Clarinet, e.g. 63 Copy editor's 
term 64 Hitchcock film, with "The ... 
65. Bills that pay few bills 
DOWN 
I Holmes's hansoms 2 Sailor's direction 
3 Banker's word 4 Latvian 5 Coins of 
Copenhagen 6 "Nevermore" utterer 
, 
7 First victim 8 --Saud 9 Common 

contraction 25 Ike's wife 34 Concur 51 Fencer's 10 "-Irish weapon
26 "-byany 37 Soup server 
Rose" 52 Cicatrix
other name 38 Eye part
II Widespread 53 Dynamic
...": Shak. 

39 Neither's
12 Wrestlers' prefix
27 Barfly's perch partner
pads 54 St. Paul's 13 Court figure 28 "Perfect" 45 Easels, e.g. designer 18 Secrete number 46 Soft mineral 55To­19 San Joachin 29 Plant pest 47 A Navratilova (precisely) 
valley city 56 Asgard
30 Debonair rival

23 Measures the dwellers 
31 -Park, 48 Chide
Colo. valley 49 Corded fabrics 24 Greek Cupid 32 Has on 50 Release 59 King of France 
171£11& Wl/5, NI1Tllr<JIUY, 
7118 PKOWCTlON aPT... 5/lt£S 1/NP MIIKK€11N&... 
"THEN Yau OVI 61THE'R. 
DROP lT o FP .;\T 11-tE

HE:A.E.1!o WH.<IT W61D !..\KG Yot.< "To PO: 
06SE'RV6R OFAce:s 3RD f"\A.S\" 1 MltR!o:. Y~R. 
F l..OOA. W't FOR.1\JIIIe: : OR. t::Hot c.e: I1<1 1ll6 !..1ST" 
S~NO l1'" 1"HR.OIJGH I'AN6t.... iHCN cvr IT' CAMPUS MAtt..: our A No f'\IT IT IN 
..TUP€N'T" GOM IC S1l.IP
"'N ~6UJP'I3.J 
'THe OBSeA.'ICR.. 
P.a Box Gl. N:>Tlu;: DAM 6 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
1/NP, Of COUI?~. RE5€AKCH 1/N/7 11@1€Lt1f!ff€NT. 
0 JERKS 
...., 8o" M<-IA.~hH" l<c.~'" "'-:~<&.y0 TH~ MISAO'itN1'~~ OF BU%~ ~'~'Ft.ATWP by Mo<hAtl 1"\ol.~<>o" 
0 F.VNNY Nt1S£S 
~ A~<i y l:.iM&y 
-SNIP 



r 
I 
I 
I • Sports
Monday, September 26, 1988 pa_g_e 16 
Fast start keys Irish throttl~~ of Boliermakers 
Offense rolls to make it Notre Dame 3, Big Ten 0 
By PETE GEGEN "We're a good football team that has im­Sports Writer proved fundamentally over a year ago," he 
said. "But we still have a long way to go. Where It just was Notre Dame's day. are we right now? We're 3-0, which is exactly The Irish jumped all over a hobbled Purdue where we were a year ago." 
squad 52-7 Saturday at Notre Dame stadium, There wasn't much else left to be decided completing a three-game sweep of Big Ten once the Irish jumped out to a 42-0 lead. It hap­schools and raising the question of just how pened so fast that Irish coach Lou Holtz didn't good is this Notre Dame football team. get to do some of the things he wanted to try. 
"It was just our day," said Irish coach Lou "It got out of hand so quick," said Holt2.. "We Holtz. "I don't believe that there's a 42-point really needed to throw the football more today, difference in a half between us ... The only way but we didn't have the opportunity." I thought we'd score 42 against Purdue was if Four Irish quarterbacks did manage to get 
r Digger didn't play a half-court game." off 14 passes, eight of them completions and The Notre Dame totals told the story: 31 rush­one interception. The focus, however, was on ing attempts for 236 yards, five passes for 119 Rice's arm. yards, 15 first downs and three interceptions After two incompletions stalled Notre Dame's by the defense. Leading rusher Tony Brooks opening drive, he rolled right on a third-and-five had 11 carries for 110 yards, and Tony Rice play and hit flanker Pat Eilers for a 10-yard completed four of six passes and threw for two gain. The next play was Rice's 38-yard touch­touchdowns against the top pass defense in the down run, helped by a huge hole on the left side country coming into the game. and a downfield block by Eilers. And that was just the first half. After linebacker Mike Stonebreaker halted "Notre Dame could have picked the score Purdue's drive when he stopped Jarrett Scales after that start," said Purdue coach Fred short of a first down on a shovel pass, the Irish Akers: "Once they got rolling and things started offense went to work again. Another completion going their way, they became awfully good." to Eilers on third down kept the drive going, Besides the point deficit, Akers had to cope and Rice 'capped the nine-play, 72-yard drive with the loss of several interior linemen, includ­with an eight-yard toss to freshman tight end ing right tackle Kris Burns on defense and cen­Derek Brown. ter Bruce Crites and left tackle Bruce Brineman In the second quarter, Rice's final tm:s was on offense. With everything going right for the a 54-yard bomb to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, Irish and wrong for the Boilermakers, the out­who beat cornerback Steve Jackson for the come was not in doubt for long. touchdown to make the score 21-0. "You have to keep your perspective," said The next scoring drive featured the running Holtz. "Purdue was banged up and we really attack, with Rice, Brooks and Ricky Watters played well." combining for 73 yards in six plays, leading to On that theme, Holtz tried to calm people Mark Green's seven-yard plowing up ·the 
eager to label his team being an excellent squad. 
Otfense rediscovers pass; Rice keys offensive output 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 

This first half was for the critics and the doubters. In a bigger way it was a confidence builder for Tony Rice and the Notre Dame offense. ' . Rice, criticized for his l~ck of passing success in wins over Michigan and Mic­higan State, sparked the Insh romp over Purdue Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish w~re supposed to dominate the Boilers, and Rice took it upon himself to lead th_em mto battle. After co~pleting only 5-of-21 attempts in the opening games, Rice connected on four-of-six passes for 85 yards and two touchdowns in limited playing time. 
"I thought Tony threw more in the game today.like he has in practice" Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "For the first time, I felt he didn't overstride. Don't' get me wrong. lfie's not ready to play on Sunday yet." 
_No~re. Dame's passing woes appeared destined to continue early in the game. Rice ~ f1rst pass to Mark _Green was broken up and his second, this time to Raghib Ismail, was drop~ed. This wasn't supposed to be happening to Notre Dame, the team that revoluboned college football years ago with its use of the forward pass. , "I th?ught Tonr threw a ni_ce pass and it was dropped," Holtz said. "I thought, 
• When I::; somethmg good gomg to happen to this young man?' He made a nice 
The Observer 1 Don. Pan pass into coverage, but it just didn't work out." It was only a matter of time before things began to work out for Rice and his 
Frank Starns (30) puts the pressure on Purdue quarterback Brian Fox during Saturday's 
see OFFENSE, page 12game. The Irish defense held the Boilers to seven points and 114 yards total offense. 
Irish volleyball team dominates Rice (the university) 
By MOLLY MAHONEY communication problems, but "Tracey Shelton had a hell of play and could only manage a 30 attempts to penetrate the we played well." a match," said Lambert. .062 hitting percentage for the net.
Sports Writer 

Senior right side hitter "Shea played pretty well at game. "We can feel ourselves com­Home sweet home. · Maureen Shea tallied..,a match­right side too, and I think the Rice rallied, though, in the ing together," said Waller. The Notre Dame women's high 10 kills and got some help team's getting more comfort­second game and heid the lead "Our passes are improving and 
volleyball team returned home from fellow seniors Mary Kay able with this new lineup." for the first part of the game. we're hoping we can really after seven consecutive road Waller and Zanette Bennett, The Irish have been ex­But the Irish were able to score big." matches to defeat visiting Rice who followed close behind with perimenting with a new lineup regain their momentum after in three games, 15-7, 15-13 and eight kills. as of late, which has shifted the reaching an 8-8 tie and fight The Irish will now try to work 15-8 and improve its record to Sophomore outside hitter responsibilites of some players their way to the victory. out any wrinkles in the new 5-5. Tracey Shelton, playing in only and seen the arrival of new lineup before facing Northwes­
The Irish play was sloppy at the second match of her career players such as Shelton and Going into the third game, tern in the JACC on Tuesday. times but a balanced attack at Notre Dame, had an out­sophomore Rachel Hall. the Irish overcame many of the kept them in control for much standing match, recording Notre Dame won the first communication problems that "We have to refine the fun­of the match. seven kills o'ld seven digs. game of the match by f:teadily had kept the Owls close in damentals," said Lambert. 
"Generally, I'm pleased with She also added three service accumulating points behind a game two and methodically "We have no secrets. Its not our play," said Irish head co­aces, which proved to be the well-balanced attack and effec­the fancy stuff that wins ach Art Lambert. "We had our last three points of the match tive blocking. The Rice squad dispelled Rice's offesive attack matches; the team that ex­moments wben we had some for the Irish in game three. was stymied by the Irish net by allowing only eight kills on ecutes wins." 
.. 




