IACCENT: Foreign Frolics 
IVIEWPOINT: Graduate Student Union 



VOL. XXII, NO. 7 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
First HPC meeting 


discusses SYR's 
By JIM WINKLER spirit, and his group's inten­
Staff Reporter tions. "We need people to get 
a little more crazy on campus," 

Discussions about the alcohol Straub said. 
policy, student spirit, and new For the Michigan game, 
programs from the University Straub said, the Friday eve­
Counseling Center highlighted ning pep rally will be on the 
the first Hall Presidents Coun­Stepan basketball courts and 
cil meeting last night at will follow a student picnic.
Howard Hall. Straub also asked that students 
"The new regulations on wear green to the game. With 
SYR's put pressure on these support from the Hall Presi­
Hall Presidents to set a prece­dents Council, Straub and his 
dent," said HPC Co­group plan on providing free 
Chairperson Michelle LaRose. face painting to all students. 
"These Hall Presidents have to Struab said he hopes to finalize 
make it work this year, or the plans for that by next week. 
dances will be gone. We need Straub noted that the Athletic 
100 percent cooperation from Department was very suppor­
the students to make it work," tive of the Insanity group.
LaRose added. Straub introduced class of '88 
Many of the Hall Presidents graduate George McGowan, 
expressed concern over the who now serves as director of 
regulations, especially the marketing and promotion for 
rules prohibiting open contain­the Athletic Department. 
ers of alcohol in public areas. McGowan echoed Straub's sen­
Keenan Hall's President Mark timents about spirit, saying,
l<'laharty said, "Why would you ''This campus should be as wild 
go up to the fourth floor if you as ever. It has been a little lame 
live on the first, if there is noth­lately. We are supposed to be 
ing to go up there for?" Mike obnoxious and we are not." 
Caponigro, president of Alumni McGowan voiced his support 
not easy to leave the warm sunshine and sit through 

Hall, added, "I don't think the for Irish Insanity and for the 
yet another lecture.

people who wrote the policy non-revenue sports that are 
have any idea what dances are now covered by the All-Sports 
like. I think that these people pass announced last week by 
Drug crackdown produces over 250 

who wrote the policy don't even the Athletic Department.
drink." Tim Ontka, a psychologist at 

tons of marijuana and cocaine

Kerstin White, co-the University Counseling Cen­
chairperson of the Council, an­ter, addressed the Council 
Associated Press

nounced that she and LaRose Authorities also demolished leading to the seizure of mari­
about the Counseling Center's seven hidden airstrips and

were to meet with Father new program on dating and juana.
WASHINGTON-More than seized $3.8 million in cash, heDavid Tyson, vice president for relationships. Ontka said he 1,200 people were arrested this said. Thornburgh, revealing theStudent Affairs, later this wanted dorms to sponsor or co­month in a 30-nation drug The Aug. 1-28 campaign in­operation at a news confer­week. She also said that she sponsor one section of this four­crackdown which was unprece­volved a variety of operations, ence, said "The statistics arewould try to arrange a meeting part program. The program dented for its international including intensified border not as important as the signal

for the entire Council with deals with dating, falling in Tyson or John Goldrick, asso­love, getting closer emotion­teamwork, Attorney General searches, the discovery and that has been sent to the drug 
Richard Thornburgh said destruction of chemical stores, kingpins. Henceforth, they will ciate vice president for ally and physically, and break­Tuesday. and increased patrols of air­increasingly face the combined Residence Life. ing up. Ontka said, "We need The operations, centered in ports, highways and rivers fury of law enforcementIn addition to the alcohol the dorm support to get people the United States and South and known to have been used for agencies of all nations whosepolicy, much time was spent involved in these programs. We Central America, led to the sei­illicit drug shipments. 

discussing school spirit and the want sponsoring dorms to pro­people they victimize." 
zure of 11 tons of cocaine and

newly formed Irish Insanity or­vide space to have these He called the international 
the destruction of 244 tons of In Florida, Arizona and cooperation an "importantganization. Eric Straub, a rep­events." 

marijuana, 118,000 coca plants Texas, about 100 members of milestone" and the "first typeresentative of the new group, In other business, the Council 

spoke with the Council about and 13 cocaine laboratories, the National Guard helped in­of operation of its kind" on the the need for increased school see HPC, page 5 Thornburgh announced. spect over 6,000 vehicles, war against drugs. 

Security apprehends four alleged bicycle thieves 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN "Security officers who heard Old Juniper Road near the locked around noon on Johnson. "Our policy is gener­Senior Staff Reporter the radio call were able to ap­Alumni-Senior Club around Thursday near Nieuwland Sci­ally not to go off campus unless prehend the suspects while 1:00 a.m. on Friday. A third ence Hall. called by other enforcement 
Notre Dame Security ap­they were still on campus," suspect eluded Security offi­"This case is one we'll follow agencies" or in following up of prehended two groups of al­Johnson said. cers, but the matter is "still un­up ourselves," Johnson said. campus stories, he added. leged bicycle thieves on "We recovered the bicycle der investigation," according "If we had no information, we Johnson said it was fortunate campus over the past week, ac­stolen from Dillon, which was to Johnson. would notify the South Bend that Security was able to iden­cording to Assistant Director not registered with Security," "A passerby at Crowley police." tify the owner of the bicycle in Phillip Johnson. Johnson said. The bike was also Music Hall noticed a suspicious Security has jurisdiction in both cases, because the people 
Last Wednesday, "Two unlocked. act and went immediately to such cases even outside the reporting the events were third juveniles were apprehended as "We commend members of the Main Gate to notify Secur­Notre Dame campus, said parties. In the first case, a they attempted to remove a the Notre Dame community for ity," said Johnson. Security of­Johnson. "We have jurisdiction receipt was found in a pack on bicycle belonging to a Dillon getting involved like this" in ficers went to the scene and if we are in 'hot pursuit'. We the bike identifying the owner, Hall resident," said Johnson. A active crime prevention, found three juveniles fleeing on also have jurisdiction by In­and the bicycle in the second Notre Dame staff member ob­Johnson said. "If it was not for bicycles. Security officers diana case law, as do all In­was registered with Security. served the two juveniles riding the responsible caller, we chased the suspects on foot and diana police officers, as part of "In cases like this, we don't on bicycles with a third bicycle would not have apprehended in two Security cars. our official discharge of our re­have a crime until we find the in tow. The staff member the suspects." A bicycle was recovered and sponsibilities. victim," said Johnson. "If no yelled at the suspects, who then In the second incident, two its owner contacted, who said "Our primary responsibility fled, and called Security. suspects were apprehended on the bicycle had been left un-is to the campus," added ... THEFT, page 3 


~-~--~---------------­
page2 The Observer Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 

IN BRIEF 
Burt Reynolds and Loni Anderson plan to adopt a baby that is expected to be born in a California hospital this week, according to a publicist for Anderson. "I love kids," Anderson, 41, said in an interview published in Tuesday's Daily News. "If I'd been with the right man when I was younger, I'd have had four." Anderson added, "Burt has always wanted to be a father. He asked me if at 52 he'll be able to get used to the noise of a child. I told him it's gradual." -Associated Press 
-Rock superstar Michael Jackson will return to Japan for a series of concerts in December as a finale to his world tour and then will probably retire from the con­cert circuit, his manager said Tuesday. The reclusive singer kicked off his world tour in Japan last fall, perform­ing before about 450,000 fans and creating a storm the Japanese media dubbed "Typhoon Michael." The singer will continue making records, Dileo said, adding that Jack­son also wants to make movies. -Associated Press 
-After kicking an addiction to Valium and vodka, at the Hazelden drug treatment center, fashion designer Calvin Klein says he's a new man, more relaxed about life-and clothes. "I'm in the first year of my second life," Klein said in an interview in the September issue of Vogue magazine. "I feel reborn. I really am seeing things dif­ferently." Klein said he's been taking horseback riding and sailing lessons and going to movies -something he never had the patience for before. And, he said, his new outlook should be visible on clothing racks next spring. ­Associated Press 
SingerMarieOsmondwillfillinforailinglndiana-born Crystal Gayle at the Statehouse Centennial Gala. Miss Gayle, a Wabash native, canceled her Friday appeara!lce at the Hoosier Celebration '88 event because of complica­tions following recent surgery. The $50-per-person e_vent is part of a two-day celebration marking the 100th anmver­sary of the building. -Associated Press 


OF INTEREST 
The N[)SMC Urban Plunge is looking for students to serve on the task force which will organize the 1988-89 program. There are five committees on the task force which include Publicity, Registration, Hall Representa­tives Orientation Workshop, and Follow-up. If interested, cont~ct Sue Cunningham at the Center for Social Concerns at 239-7867. The Publicity Committee will meet on Tuesday, Sept. 6 at 4 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 
A Bible study informational meeting will be held today at 7 p.m. at the Badin Hall office of Campus Ministry for all those interested in a bible study sponsored by Campus Ministry and led by Father Al D'Alonzo. For information, call 239-5577. 
-The Observer 
Senior portrait sign-ups will be held in the dining halls from 4:45 to 6:45p.m. today, Thursday, and Friday. Photographs will be taken September 5 to 23. 
-The Observer 

-Ihe~O-bs.~ e~~or__ 
---. ----eL-=Y=-'----­
Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alison Cocks Typesetter .. . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Derwent News Editor.................. Colleen Cronin Copy Editor ................. Christine Walsh Sports Copy Editor... . ...... Pete Gegen Accent Copy Editor.. . . . . . . . . Matt Murphy TyJ>Ut .................. . ... Val Poletto ND Day Editor ................... Sandy Roth SMC Day Editor .............. Sarah Demet Photographer ......................... Jim Brake Sports Wednesday Editor. Theresa Kelly 

Tile Olllener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S-40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile ObRnn, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olllener is a member of Tile Aslodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




Mysterious Tarot actually did predict future 
AsseeninTheObserver..."Mysterious 
Tarot predicts the future" Mark This is where tabloid rags like the New York 

·n

Mclaughlin
Post and the Weekly World News would paste a reduction of last week's or last year's paper to prove that they had the story first. Unfortun­
News Editor
ately we can't do that because we're not the Weekly World News, despite columns like this one occasionally. 
Anyway, on October 14 of last year, a column appeared in this space that attempted to predict the future of the University using Tarot cards, an old Gypsy trick. Well, yesterday I stumbled upon my old column and lo and be­hold, it actually seemed to predict a recent im­portant campus event. Guess which one. So without further ado, here is the text direct from Wednesday, October 14, 1987: 
The Hierophant (as the Significator): The Significator is a card chosen by the reader to represent the seeker. In this case, I chose the Hierophant, a religious authority figure, to rep­resent Notre Dame, which defines itself as a Catholic university, and thus a teaching author­ity. 
Three of Swords, reversed (general atmo­sphere): A card in the reversed position gen­erally means an opposite meaning as the same card upright. The Three of Swords, a card of ture action they feel they might later regret. 
confusion or loss, is lessened in meaning when Six ofCups, reversed (influence of family and reversed. Perhaps this refers to the recent friends): Clinging to outworn manners andchangeover of University presidents, lessened morals. Old friendships should be discarded.
in impact by the competence of the new man This could be interpreted as the view of thein the job. 
student body. Note that this is merely stating Two of Wands (tools available): Creative people's views, not making any claims as toability, plans coming to fruition, courage. In whether they are correct views.
this reading, the base upon which Notre Dame Eight ofWands (hopes): A long journey nears was built. 
completion, goals will be attained. The Univer­Nine of Swords (foundations): Desolation, sity hopes to realize all of it~ potential as asuspicion, doubt. The recent tragic deaths of center of Catholic learning.
members of the Notre Dame community come The Sun, reversed (the final outcome): First, to mind. 
the good news. The Sun is one of the best cards The Star, reversed (departing influences): in the Tarot deck. It signifies achievement inStubbornness, lack of perception. I would say the arts and sciences, success, and all-aroundthe alcohol policy, but please remember I am happiness. The reversed position, however, nul­not a professional reader. 
lifies all this, making it a card of frustratedFour of Cups (possible future): Contempla­potential. Its position near the Four of Cupstion of self, reevaluation. Since this is positioned might suggest that introspection and changenext to the reversed Star, perhaps the Univer­might help to realize this potential.
sity may reconsider its stand on a topic which previously had been set in stone. Well, I would tell you what these cards 
Queen of Wands, reversed (entering in­predicted, but the powers-that-be around here fluences): Virtuousness to a fault, domineering. said we can't talk about the a-word in this news­This may be a specific woman or a general paper. And I don't mean the a-word with three trend. letters. 
King of Wands (fears): Agood leader, strong I'm afraid to predict the future of the Uni­in body and mind, but sometimes hasty. Per­versity again, though. We might end up with a haps University leaders are afraid of some fu-dry campus. 
Part-Time 

()()eS VOIJtl. MONTHl.Y \ ( 
lll.J,.OWANCE ONLYLAST 
A WEEK~ 

At The Signature Group, we know how tough it can be... attending class, doing homework and then juggling a job on top of that to make ends meet. There is a way to earn the money you need without working those unreasonable hours ... a part-time job at The Signature Group! 
You can start off earning well over minimum wage and expect salary increases at 8 weeks and 6 months. \\brlcing any of our convenient shifts, Q7-23 hours/week) you'll still have plenty of study time.
Burns 

You'll be marketing our clubs to customers nationwide. All you need are:

Rent-Ails 

• EJcellent commualcatloa Skills 
• Apleasallt telepiiOae rapport The Signature Group provides: 
2.5 Cubic Foot • compaiiJ-pald CRT training
• state-of-tll•art work enlroament
Refrigerator • Paid llolldays and nut1o1s 
• Montgomery Ward dlsco111t
$45 I School Year 
just think, you could start earning next week and maybe your monthly allowance will last all month! 
Free Delivery and 

Call 236-4206
Pickup Available 

Seven days a week, 9 AM to 5 PM. 
332 

W. Mishawaka Ave. SIGNATURE 
GROUP 
259-2833 Equal Opportunity Employer 

Wednesday, August 31, 1988 





Theft 
continued from page 1 
one reports the bicycle as stolen, we can't press charges." 
Johnson recommended that: 
•bicycle 
owners keep their bicycles locked with high quality bike locks; eowners should register their bicycles with Security; 

•people 
who see persons acting suspiciously should call Secur-


Live And Teach In Japan 
International Education Services invites applications for a one 
year assignment in Japan to teach technical & conversational 
English to Japanese business people from major corporations-government ministries. Degree required. Experience in TESOL, linguistics, education, pharmaceuticals, securities1inance, business management, marketing, advertising, engineering, telecommunications, electronics, or the travel industry preferred. For information on the position, please send resume and photo to IES, Shin Taiso Building, 10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chrome, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo (150). 
ity immediately. 

Security provides a free registration service for bicycles, Johnson said. He added that bicycles thus regis­tered have been found by other police agencies and returned to their owners. 
Once it has been ascertained that the bicycles taken by the suspects were indeed stolen, said Johnson, the suspects would be referred to Parkview Juvenile Center, a county detention facility. 
The Observer 



OPENING SALE 
CELLAR PRICE  
Albums  $6.99  
Tapes  $6.99  
CDs  $12.99  

You don't need to be a business major to know where to go. See you at 
1l1!l~ 

Basement of LaFortune store hours 


E=o~
Mon thru Fri 12-8 

MASTERCARD/VISA NOW ACCEPTED 



WEEK 
BOOKSTORE PRICE 
$7.93 $7.93 $15.99 
page3 
• 

crowd, killing more than 40 people and injuring hundreds. 
Air show crash takes toll on six Americans 
Associated Press 
Ramstein, West Germany­The death toll in the worst crash at an air show rose to 49 Tuesday, and officials feared some children hospitalized with severe burns had been or­phaned because no one in­quired about them. 
The Pentagon said six Americans were among those killed when three Italian jets collided Sunday at the U.S. air Base in Ramstein, one hurtling into the crowd in flames. 
West German officials said two people died of burns Tues­day, raising their death toll to 
49. They said 14 had been iden­tified, including the three Ital­ian pilots. None of the 14 was a 
U.S. citizen. 
Chief Pentagon spokesman Dan Howard said the latest 
U.S. count put the number of confirmed fatalities at 40, in­cluding six Americans, four Germans, three Italians and 'l:l 



,----, 
lw\'f~l'EI
1 were still here with a. . . 1 
people of unknown nationality. Of the six Americans, two were active-duty military personnel, three were dependents and one is unknown, Howard said. 
The Defense Department was trying to resolve its con­flicts in the casualty counts, he said. 
The latest Pentagon count also showed 363 individuals in­jured, of whom 41 were Americans and 322 were Ger­mans, Howard said. 
Four U.S. bur., victims were flown to the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas, for further treatment. Surgeons and other medical staff took nearly an hour to move the blanket-covered patients from a military am­bulance onto a C-141 U.S. air Force transport plane. 
The West German Bild and Abendpost newspapers said at least three children were hospi­talized with serious burns. 
POSTER ARTISTS 


NEEDED 

Would you like to see your artwork all around campus? 
Call Student Union Board! 

CONTACT: JOHN BREZNY 283-1876, or JENNIFER RAWERT 283-4229 
ll/2PRICE1 

I ~9!!!~ I 
I 
I Can't Believe It's 
I 


YOGURT! 
Frozen Yogurt Stores 
'-----------------~®
I 
1635 Edison Rd., South Bend 
I 

two blocks east of Notre Dame Stadium Phone: 271-9540 
Hours: Daily 11 am-11 pm 
Withco~:.n:c::::::v~~· 30, 198-~ 
' 



~~g~e~4------------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~bse~N~e~r~----------------------------------~W~e:d:n:es:d~a~y~,A~.:~u:s~t~3~1,_1~9~88 
r 
~;~, Redesigned shuttle
r r 
passes final test 
Associated Press quired before Thiokol's redesigned booster is cleared 
Salt Lake City-The for flight, was critical to the redesigned space shuttle National Aeronautics and booster performed to near­Space Administration's plans perfection during a critical to resume shuttle missions, firing earlier this month grounded since the Challenger despite being peppered with in­disaster 2 years ago. tentional flaws, Morton Thiokol NASA says it plans to launch announced Tuesday. the shuttle Discovery in late 
"It was as near perfect a test September or early October if as you can imagine," spokes­sluggish oxygen valves and a man Rocky Raab said. "The hydrogen leak are repaired in 
test was so perfect that every­time. one associated with it has taken Raab said NASA and Thiokol leave. Brother, there's nobody engineers have "gotten all the 
out at the plant." primary results" from their 
Raab said workers had com­painstaking examination of the pleted disassembly and pri­rocket. All that remains is mary analysis of the 126-foot­mostly computer analysis of long solid-fuel booster tested the ''more minor details'' of the Aug. 18 at Thiokol's northern test-firing, he said. 
Blowing by utah plant 25 miles west of Brigham City. 
Join

ND band members march in front of O'Shaughnessy have been held in a fenced-in area on Green Field. 
Success of the firing, the fifth 
Hall returning from a late afternoon practice. Practices 

The Observer

and final qualifying test re-
Trees turn earlier due to drought 
Associated Press forecast indicates is over, may than the first of October. It speed up the arrival of fall, it depends on what happens 
West Lafayette, Ind.-The will have little to do with during the next month." sweltering summer of '88 that producing the brilliant colors. Foliage in the southern part parched the Hoosier landscape "Generally when you have of the state will turn a little 
may produce an early, colorful stress, the colors develop ear­later. fall, says George Parker, an as­lier," Parker said. "We might The weather during the past sociate professor of forest ecol­see it a week or two weeks ear­several days is ideal for 
ogy at Purdue University. lier, depending on what part of producing brilliant fall foliage­Parker says leaves may turn the state you're in and how warm days and cool nights, bright colors by mid­much rain fell." says Parker. 
September, several weeks ear­Rainfall throughout the state While the drought could lier than normal. was spotty this summer. bring an early start of fall The drought left trees under In the Lafayette area, colors, it has not damaged 
stress, despite recent rains, Parker said, "I think we'll see adult trees. said Parker. some significant coloration by "The adult trees have come Although the drought, which the middle of September and through in pretty good shape," the long-range weather then it may peak a little earlier. he said. 
YourBasic Your BASIC 






Problem: Solution: 
The Observer I Jim Brake 




The Tl-74 BASICALC: The BASIC language programmable calculator from Texas Instruments. The mathematics and statistics cartridges are two offive optional application software available. 
The Tl· 7 4 BASICALC"" is user-definable keys which can make use than any other programmable Stop by your bookstore and see a BASIC calculator that's doing your coursework a basic snap. calculator. both sides of the TI-74 BASI CALC also an advanced scientific Switch to its calculator mode and Your BASICALC specs: for yourself. Either way, it'll blow 
you're armed with 70 scientific you away.
calculator. In effect, it's two • SK RAM expandable to 16K RAM. 
functions to help you easily solve • 113 BASIC keyword set.
calculators in one. 

those tough technical problems. • Optional software cartridges for chemical 
In its BASIC mode, you have And the large, color-coded keys, engineering, math, statistics and finance. TEXAS. direct, two-keystroke access to 41 QWERTY keyboard and separate • Optional PASCAL language cartridge. BASIC commands, as well as 10 numeric keypad make it easier to • Optional printer and cassette interface. INSTRUMENlS 
TMTrademark of Texas Instruments Incorporated ©1988 TI. 
----------------------------------------·--­
---~--~ 

1 
1 
· 
Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
The Observer 

page~ 

Open 11:00 AM­
clfp.p.E.tizE.'L ..£inE.up 
it: 


MOZZORELLA STICKS. . • • . . . . . • • . . • . . . . • . . . . 2.65 RINGS ones) . • . • . • • . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . 2.65 STICKS . . • • . • • . . . • . • • . . . • . . . . . . . . 2.65 FRIES ............•....•..•.....•........ 1.05 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 1.55 nn~•,n••-> (deep fried) .. , ..... , , , , , . , , . , . . . . . . . 1.55 ALO CHICKEN WINGS ...........•............ 2.75 
Above served with a choice of Marmora Sauce or Cheese Sauce 

. . . . . • • . . . . . . . • . . • • . . . . . . . . 1.45 lA fino bland ol Rout Beef, H•m ond Turkey In • Botllton S.uco with Ontona •nd Muohroom1 odded) 
OF THE DAY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . . 1.55 

t 
···-·;_::~:-"" 
~ 
7w 14w J8w 

IMT.:ISHI~OC>MS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . .47 .80 1.27 . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47 .80 1.27 
IX.(;Hi;i;Si; . . . . . . • • • • • . . . • . . . • • • • • • • .28 .47 .80 X·VEGETABLES .....................28 .47 .80 X·MAYO ...........................05 .10 .15 COSMO (healed) .. .. .. • .. .. .. .. .. .. .10 .10 .10 

!BE.aE.'l.agE.~ 
sm. lg. om. lg. Potato Salad . . . .89 1.10 Pepsi . • . . . • . . . . . .59 .89 Cole Slaw .......89 1.10 Dial Pepsi •. , . , . . .59 .89 Potalo Chips. . . . .69 1.39 Slice ............59 .89 Pickles. . . . . . . . . .45 .65 Dr Pepper . • • . . . . .59 .89 Tasty Kake Cupkakea. . .60 Mountain Dew. , . .59 .89 
llmpor1.d ltom Phila.) 
1:00 AM (or later) 
~cMatE.o '~ .£andwic.hE.~ 
~-\ On th.~ c5cdd£n~
f'-7• u• 18. MATEO .•••••••••.. , ••••••..•• , ••• 2.89 4.13 5.34 (Hom, Turkey ond S.lomt) TURKEY .........••...••......•..•. 2.89 4.13 5.34 TURKEY BR .•...•.•....•.•...•.•... 3.14 4.61 5.34 HAM .•••....••.•••...••••..•..•.•• 3.03 4.34 5.34 TUNA •.• , , , •• , .•....•• , •.•.•..•••. 3.03 4.34 5.34 ROAST BEEF ...................... 3.14 4.61 5.34 SALAMI .••••••..•.•...•.... , ••. , •. 3.14 4.61 5.34 CORN BEEF ....................... 3.14 4.61 5.34 REAL ITALIAN ..................... 3.14 4.61 5.34 (C.ppocolo, Prociullo ond Genco S.lomi) COMBINATION .................... 3.14 4.61 5.34 (H•m. Turkey •nd Roo•t Beef) VEGETARIAN SUB ....••......••.••• 3.03 4.34 5.34 {3 type• of Cheeoea w/•11 the Veqei•blea) SEAFOOD SUB ..••..•.....••.••.••• 3.24 4.81 5.54 PASTRAMI ........................ 3.14 4.61 5.34 CHICKEN SALAD ................... 3.03 4.34 5.34 PHILA. CHEESESTEAK ....•.....•..• only one size (12•) (Chopped Steak, Melted Cheese, Onions, 4 81 
•ndRedS.uce) .!Jn thE. <!JaE.n 
. D 
MEATBALL ........................ 3.03 4.34 5:34 CARDOSA ......................... 3.14 4.61 5.34 
(Mea.lbGIIa w/Cheaae, Muahrooma, Onion) 
PIZZA SUB ..••.•.... , .•...• , .•. , •.. 3.03 4.34 5.34 (Salami, Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onion• ond Red S.uce w/Melted Cheese) 
REUBEN ........................... 3.14 4.61 5.34 (Corn Beef, S.uerkraut, Thousand blond Dre11lnQ w/Molted Swisa Choeae) 
PEPPERONI COSMO ...•••....••.•. 3.03 4.34 5.34 (Heated Pepperoni, Cheese w/all FixinQa) 




BELP WAN,.ED 

Free Delivery 271-0SUB Go Ahead, Confront the Beast!!! 


We will be collecting the balance of $325 for all those who've signed up on 
August 30 & 31 6:30 -9:00 pm in Main Lobby of Lafortune 

Ifseniors are still interested in going, spots are still available. The full $475 will be collected when you sign up Aug. 30 & 31. 
Roommates will be chosen when balance is collected. Only quads. 

Any questions contact 
Kathleen Hannon Theresa Barnhart 283-4220 283-4272 

Divers find 10,000 year old jaw in river 

Associated Press 
Williams, Ind.-Two women diving for mussels in the White River discovered what a scien­tist say is the lower jaw of a mastodon, an elephant-like animal extinct for about 10,000 years. 
Chris Amstutz and Randy Cornett found the jaw late last week while harvesting mussels near Williams Dam southwest of Bedford in Lawrence County. 
Mastodons were stockier and not as tall as elephants. Some had tusks and teeth up to 3 inches wide and 6 inches long. 
Ron Richards, curator of paleobiology at the Indiana State Museum, saw the jaw and confirmed Monday that it is from a mastodon. "There's no doubt about it," he said. 
"Somewhere in that river you've got the whole skeleton, but it could be a hundred miles away. 
"The find is in pretty good condition," said Richards. "In general, there are not that many of these things around in this good of shape." 
Richards, who attributed the condition to a lack of exposure to the elements, said there have been about 200 sightings of mastodon remains throughout Indiana. 
Amstutz said he wasn't sure what he had found when he first 
ran across the jaw in 4 feet of 
water. 
"I saw two little rows of 
bumps running parallel with 
each other," he said. "At first 
I thought it was some type of 
concrete block." 
He said if drought conditions 
had not caused the water to be 
so clear, the jaw might have 
remained unnoticed. 
"The clarity of the water is the best I've ever seen it," he said. "Usually when you're musseling, if you have 12 or 14 inches of vision you have good river diving. Right now, we've got excellent vision. You can see a fish swimming 8 to 10 feet from you. It's almost like diving in a quarry." 
When Amstutz started brush­ing the sand away from the ob­ject, he saw what appeared to be the white part of a tooth. 
"There was no doubt in my mind it was a tooth, and I was sure it was bigger than any tooth I'd ever seen." 
"The biggest tooth in a horse's or cow's head isn't even an inch square," he said. "We're talking four inches square with these teeth. I saw those big teeth and I just knew it was something prehistoric." 
Amstutz and Cornett used a screwdriver to loosen the gravel around the jaw. "It was in gravel, sand and old mussel shells," said Amstutz. "It looked something like a fish nest." 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
discussed the LaFortune Stu­dent Center open house, to be held Sept.8, the start-up of the Buzz Bus, and tentative plans for HPC to sponsor a campus-wide charity event. LaRose also stressed the need for sup­port for the 24-hour study lounge at the Oak Room. The 24-hour lounge will open follow­ing regular business on Tues­day, Sept. 6, LaRose an­nounced, and will be on a 90-day trial basis. 
How to start yourlaw career 6efore you start lawsChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nation-wide! And candidates who score over 40 on the LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 125 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your Jaw career. 


I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
CLASS STARTING NOW! 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
-


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, August 31, 1988 

Excluded graduates have a voice 
Wherever they are, graduate stu­That is one of the first tasks of the GSU. dents have a difficult life. They belong At the end of last semester and the to one of those species of men and wo­beginning of our administration, we, men that are not assigned a well the new officers of the GSU, pledged to defined place in the structure of things. foster a greater sense of communityStanding between teachers and stu­among graduate students, and to en­dents, they are part of neither group, hance recognition of the graduate stu­and thus segregation easily becomes dent body within the Notre Dame com­the name of the game. munity by increasing graduate student involvement and visibility in the cul­Victor J. Krebs tural and intellectual aspects of Uni­versity life. In our first few months of
GSU 
office, we have already made great 
on the other half strides in that direction. 
We began this year with a week-long 
orientation program, opening with a 

At Notre Dame the problem is even brunch for the new class of over 260 more acute. Since the University has graduate students, where Fr. Malloy been traditionally an undergraduate in­welcomed them to Notre Dame, and en­stitution, its whole structure is centered ding with an extremely successful around undergraduate needs. Gradute party at Wilson Commons. The GSU students seldom get the special atten­has already programmed a varied tion which their situation requires, and schedule of events for this year ranging their life in the University is often from a musical concert in the Annen­precarious. berg Auditorium and symposia on cur­
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) rent affairs to international evenings was founded in 1969 precisely to con­at Wilson Commons; from cultural di­front such problems, "to gain represen­versity programs to movies in the tation for the graduate students in the Engineering Auditorium. The GSU also total structure of the University com­sponsors a graduate student Travel munity, to promote excellence in Grant Fund which helps cover travel graduate education at Notre Dame, and expenses to present work in graduate to seek and secure the highest possible and professional conferences around quality in graduate student life." the country. This year we proudly 
Especially now that the University is publish the first GSU Orientation Guide 
seeking to improve its graduate pro­and Handbook which provides invalua­grams and upgrade the quality of ble information for all graduate stu­graduate student life, graduate stu­dents about life at Notre Dame. dents need to have a clear and sound Apart from these programs the GSU 
representative voice in the University. is also an official representative organi­zation, and as such it is the graduate Student Government. Through the GSU graduate students are represented in the University's Graduate Council, the Academic Council, and the Advanced Student Affairs Committee, all operat­ing at the highest levels of the Univer­sity administration and dealing with critical issues in graduate student life. Moreover, graduate students have the opportunity to participate through the GSU in the Board of Trustees' Student Affairs Committee meetings held twice 
a year. The most recent GSU report presented to the Board, together with the 1987 GSU Housing Report, have been instrumental in University deliberations concerning a new graduate student housing project already on the drawing board. 
In an effort to continue providing in­formation to the University administra­tion regarding graduate student con­cerns and interests, the GSU --in collaboration with the Office of Ad­vanced Studies --will run a Graduate Student Survey early next spring. 
It is essential for the effectiveness of the Graduate Student Union that all graduate students participate at some level. The GSU cannot function without the involvement and administrative ability of its members. Virtually any activity the GSU undertakes --social, academic, cultural or athletic --is con­ceived and carried out by 'Volunteers. Every full-time Master's or Ph.D. stu­dent in the Graduate School at Notre Dame is automatically a Qlember of the Graduate Student Union. 
Each department is asked to hold elections for two departmental repre­sentatives at the beginning of the fall. Departmental representatives together with the officers of the GSU constitute the Graduate Student Council, the rep­resentative and governing heart of the Union. Election procedures will be dis­tributed during the first Graduate Stu­dent Council meeting, to be held Tues­day August 13, 7:00 p.m. at the Notre Dame Room (2nd floor LaFortune). All interested are welcome. 
Stop by our new office, located at 307 LaFortune Student Center, or phone us at 239-6963 to register as an active mem­ber and pick up your handbook. We will be glad to meet you, let you know what the GSU can do for you, and show you the things you may want to do for the GSU. Every minute of your time is pre­cious for us. 
Come join us and help us make things better for you. 
Victor J. Krebs, a gradute student in philosophy, is the President of the GSU and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 

Doonesbury 
Big business dominates media 
Dear Editor: 

Mr. Hahn is his February 1, column, "Abortion issue needs rethinking," states that he wants "opinion forming thought" on the volatile topic of abor­tion. So do most people, but in order for this to occur hyperbole, incomplete analysis, and callousness must be avoided. Mr. Hahn states that we are encountering ''an atrocity coimparable to the Nazi holocaust." Over six million Jews dies in Hitler's Germany. To equate any number of abortions with this ultimate expression of hate and bigotry is ridiculous. Remember, human beings dies, not potential human beings. Furthermore to infer a parallel between a Nazi and an abortionist is hypocritical and cruel. 
Mr. Hahn cited the decision of some doctors to selectively abort fetuses and 
Garry Trudeau 
commented--"How low has the medical profession sunk this time?" I will grant that this is a potentially unethical prac­tice, but if Mr. Hahn had explored the issue deeper he would have learned that in many instances the survival of any of the fetuses depends on the aborting of the others. 
Another difficulty with his article was the lack of this issue must involve the rights of women, to omit them evidences a sexist attitude which too often prevails on the right to life side. 
In any discussion of a controversial issue it is important to avoid fanatacism but it is particularly vital on the abortion question. If the U.S. is to reach a concensus on this pressing issue we must do so after examing and respecting all sides with objectivity and compassion. 
Craig Gundersen Grace Hall 3 February 1988 


Quote of the Day 
"Every parting gives a foretaste of d.eath; every coming together again a foretaste of the resurrec­tion." 
Arthur Schopenhauer 
"Studies in Pessimism" 


Editoral Board Operations Board




Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box ~. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the dependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
-



Accent 

Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
eape 7 

A Mexican adventure 
MARA Y A GOYER main room, a kitchen, one ternoon reflection sessions. 
accent writer 
W
bedroom for 10 girls, and an­These sessions served to help other smaller one for the two the students evaluate what hen I was in high school, boys. The "bathroom" was they were being exposed to I remember the Love separate from the main and to provide peer support Boat used to stop at a place house. as each tried to deal with the called Mazatlan, Mexico. Last The water situation proved poverty and need they were year my roommate went to be one of the most per­becoming so aware of. there for spring break. My vasive and obvious difficulties The poverty in Oaxaca is of notions of Mexico thus cen­for the students. In order to a degree not frequently found tered around Chi-Chi's Mar­drink the water it first had to in the United States. For ex­garitaville, a syndicated tele­be boiled and then strained. ample, the streets were lit­vision series about a cruise Maintaining a supply of tered with pigs and chickens ship, and a friend's vacation drinking water for fifteen and all they left behind while experience at one of North thus proved a formidable children played in muddy America's premiere beach task. Laundry was done in streets naked. The poverty in resorts. the kitchen sink. After a final Mexico is real and abject, but 
This weekend I spoke with rinse numerous small crea­the people affected by it still 13 Notre Dame students who tures would have to be seemed to have hope. spent a month of their sum­manually removed from one's The main impetus behind mer living in a village in favorite ND sweatshirt or this hope was their faith. Southern Mexico. blue jeans. There were Virgin of 
The students were involved Guadulupe figurines and pic­in a program sponsored by The group of students was tures in the public transporta­Community for the Lay divided into three subgroups. tion vehicles, as well as in Apostulate. The trip was These subgroups would then shops and restaurants. ­financed by various Univer­alternate going to one of two The Mexican faith, Cat­sity organizations. The stu­work sites or doing the shop­holicism, serves to unify a dents themselves also per­ping and housekeeping. One nation of diversified Indian sonally contributed $100 each. of the work sites was an or­tribes. This unity of faith is a 
After traveling 61 hours by phanage where the students, special aspect of religious both automobile and train, regardless of their knowledge belief that the Notre Dame the group arrived in Oaxaca, of the Spainish language, students were able to appreci­Mexico, a town of approxi­taught the Mexican children ate and identify with. But un­mately 140,000. They lived in English. They also enter­like Notre Dame, where reli­a house run by the Mary tained and cared for the gion serves to guide and Knoll Sisters Missionaries. children. The other worksite support, in Mexico it provides 
The house they lived in by was a home for the elderly hope. The Oaxacan villagers American standards was ex­where they would visit with have no money, no modern ceedingly small and confin­the aged. conveniences, and no per­ing, however, by Mexican The group which stayed at sonal rights or freedoms that standards it was a perfectly home, besides shopping and our democratic system pro­acceptable residence for 15 cooking, was also responsible vides the American public. persons. The house had one for organizing the daily, af-However, with the strength 

Fun on the Continent 
T 
SARA MARLEY served to them by Gabi and Munich for Oktoberfest. accent staff her cohorts. Heffterhof pro­At this giant carnival we vides laundry service for ALL sampled one liter beers from he strains of "Kuess die of its occupants, although several of Bavaria's majorHand schoene Frau" waft they definitely learned their brewries, hopefully not all on from the windows of Keenan, trade at St. Michael's. the same night. The atmo­while Marshall Crenshaw The school is located just sphere of Oktoberfest is most plays in a room in Studenten­five minutes by bus from easily envisioned as one of heim Roessl-in-der-Au. The Salzburg's Altstadt (old city), the major amusement parks1987-88 Notre Dame Innsbruck which is just as pretty in real like Cedar Point, Disneyland, Program is over but not for­life as in ''The Sound of or Six Flags, with traditional gotten. Music." The learning process park rides, booths serving 
The 21 of us arrived last extends from the classroom Wurst and incredible roasted August 16 in the Munich air­to the city itself as the stu­almonds, and a huge King port and were met by Dr. Al­dents conduct interviews with Kong that speaks German, exander Hahn, math profes­everyone from ladies of the plus the beer "tents", actu­sor and our director for the evening (not exactly part of ally permanent structures. 
year. We proceeded to the curriculum) to monks. Within they bear a stricking
Salzburg by a bus driven by a We went on rallies to col­resemblance to a packedquite exuberant and dialect­lect booth pictures of our­South Dining Hall seranaded babbling driver who insisted selves with people from the by an oompah band playing 
on taking us on a sightseeing street and tapes of ourselves from the salad bar region. tour before we even set foot singing the Notre Dame Vic­After the womb-like atmo­in our adopted homeland, tory March to appreciative sphere of Salzburg, arriving 
Austria. audiences. We had to hand in the Innsbruck train station 
A new group has already out roses to young, pretty wo­was a little frightening. Al­taken our places in Heffter­men, collect money from though it was to be our home hof, Notre Dame's summer fountains, find out how to get for the next eight and a half school in Salzburg. There married, and measure a months, Innsbruck and its they face four six hour days bridge. looming mountains seemed and two three hour days of Free afternoons were spent less than inviting that first German per week, taught enjoying the view from the day in October. tirelessly by Hans and Ruth fortress atop --now get this -­We did eventually find our (believe it or not, it's Monk's Mountain and the bet­way to Innrain 33, our little pronounced Rootl. ter discovery of the year 1492, piece of Notre Dame for the 
Before you start feeling Stieg! Bier. year. There awaited us Helgasorry for them, though, bear After the four-week Horak, our permanent in mind that they are sleeping Salzburg session comes the Austrian director, tons of under (and on, in some Innsbruck program's first mail (although there was cases) incredible Austrian vacation, a two and a half never enough), and stacks of "Deckes", which are feather week layover before the Uni­Observers containing news of comforters. They wake up to versity of Innsbruck begins the first victories of the foot­great coffee and fresh "Sem­on October 1. Many of us ball team. We were homesick, meln", the small roles that travelled to either Germany, but excited as we moved into 
make up a typical breakfast. Greece, or Italy, but almost our dorms and prepared for Lunch and dinner are also everyone made it back to the first days of classes. 
and unity of their church be­hind them, they do possess hope for an improved life­style. 
The Notre Dame students themselves often felt that they were considered by the Oaxacan villagers as a per­sonification of hope. This was not a result of the direct ser­vices the student's provided. Rather, it was a manifesta­tion of the Mexican percep­tion of the affluence and freedom of American society that the students were repre­sentatives of. 
The documented purpose of the group's trip, as stated by the coordinator, was a way 
COLLEEN CRONIN accent writer 
H 
alftime at home football games brings many images to mind: the band, the cheerleaders, trips back out to Green field to find lin­gering tailgaters, and the all­out suicidal rush for food, just to name a few. This season, halftime may bring football fans the added attraction of the Irish Porn Pon Squad. 
Some people may remem­ber a group called the Dan­cin' Irish. The Porn Pons are not simply a revival of the Dancin' Irish, who were more entertainment-oriented. "We are spirit-oriented," says senior Erica Hinkle, who is captain of the squad. "We don't want the role of just entertainment. We are more dancing, but we are not show­girls." The dancing is what distinguishes the Poms from the cheerleaders. The cheer­leaders concentrate on cheer­ing and stunts, while the Poms focus on dancing, and never perform without music. 
The 1988-89 squad consists of sixteen girls, eight from Notre Dame and eight from Saint Mary's. "It just hap-for Notre Dame students to gain a cultural awareness of the third world in order to experience the joys and frustrations of life without modern conveniences. The primary objective of the trip was not to teach Mexican or­phans English or to alleviate some of the wretched living conditions in the village. The purpose of the trip was to ed­ucate Notre Dame students. The work they performed did not significantly impact the village of Oaxaca. It was the impact that these services had on the students that was the purpose and the impor­tance of their journey south. 

pened to work out that there were half from each school," says Hinkle. "We don't have a quota." Tryouts were held last spring, and over the sum­mer the squad accompanied the Notre Dame cheerleaders to Eastern Tennessee State University for a week-long camp and a competition in 
which they fared quite well. 
The girls have a grueling 
hour and half practice every 
Sunday through Thursday. 
As of now, the Poms are only performing at Stepan pep rallies, and the Bookstore Basketball pep rally. They are working closely with the band director, however, in trying to figure out an ar­rangement with the band for football games. Hinkle would also like to see the Poms "show some support for the non-revenue sports" and per­form at events such as wo­men's basketball. 
The students should be seeing more of the Porn Pon squad in the future, once their role is fully established. As for now, even though things are just barely started, Erica thinks things "are going really well." 

page 8 The Observer Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
NO golf coach coach George Thomas is interested in meeting any freshmen with a three handicap or better who are interested in trying out for the Irish squad. Please see Thomas between 3 and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, or call him at 295-4210. 
-The Observer 
Student football managers have an informational meeting Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce ACC auditorium (enter gate one) for any freshmen interested in becoming a student football manager. Any questions should be di­rected to the manager's office at 239-6482. -The Observer 
Brian Shaw, a guard from Cal-Santa Barbara, was cut from the United States Olympic basketball team Tuesday as the squad got down to the 12-man roster limit. Alonzo Mourning, who will start his freshman year at Georgetown this year, had been cut Sunday. -Associated Press 
Lawrence Taylor will not play football again until he successfully completes a substance abuse program, even if it takes longer than 30 days and four games, New York Giants owner Wellington Mara said Tuesday. Taylor, a seven-time Pro Bowl linebacker who has been one of foot­ball's dominant players this decade, was suspended Monday for 30 days by the NFL for violating the league's substance abuse policy for a second time. -Associated Press 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting Thrursday at 8:30p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. Call Theresa at x2803 for more information. -The Observer 
Designer Dennis Roncz of South Bend, better known for helping build the globe-circling Voyager aircraft, created the high-tech hard sail that Dennis Conner has cho­sen to defend the America's Cup. -The Observer 

NO All-Sports passes are available at a table set up outside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Hours will be the same as football ticket hours. The cost is $10 and admits one to all home varsity events for soccer, hockey, volleyball, baseball, wrestling, women's basketball and indoor track. The pass also grants special discounts at South Marriott restaurant and lounge whenever presented. -The Observer 
Men's lnterhall football rosters must be submitted to the NVA office by 5 p.m. today. A captains' meeting will be held Friday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium. Cap­tains are asked to bring the name of the team member to be certified in CPR or the CPR card of a player who cur­rently holds certification. Equipment issue will begin early next week. -The Observer 
The N D wrestling team will have a mandatory meeting Monday, Sept. 5, at 3:30p.m. for anyone interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be held at Coach Fran McCann's office located on the second floor of the Joyce ACC in the east wing near the pool. -The Observer 
The Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament will be Saturday, Sept. 3 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 registration fee and must have a minimum of two girls. -The Observer 
~ff-Campus football is hoping to begin practice later thts week. Anyone interested in coaching or playing for the team should call Pete Walsh at 289-8408. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus soccer team will hold a practice sometime this week. Anyone interested in playing for the team should call 288-8345. -The Observer 
The NO hockey team will hold a meeting for all prospective players today at 4 p.m. at the Joyce ACC football auditorium. -The Observer 
NVA sets deadlines 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced the following dead­lines for upcoming activities: 
The Domer Runs, both three­and six-mile races, will take place on Sunday, Sept. 25 at 1 
p.m. There will be both inter­hall and individual competi­tion, and trophies and door prizes will be awarded. T-shirts will be distributed to all finis­hers. The deadline for entries is Sept. 21. 
Outdoor Volleyball Tourney­A team roster with a minimum of nine players must be submit­ted on or before Sept. 7. The tournament is for Notre Dame students only and volleyball team members are eligible. 
Men's Interhall Soccer -A team roster for each hall, each with a minimum of 18 players, must be submitted on or before Sept. 7. An accompanying fee of $25 per team and proof of insurance are required. The fee must be paid when the roster is submitted. 
Co-Ree Softball -A roster with a minimum of 15 players must be submitted on or before Sept. 7. There are be ten players per team -five men and five women on the field. 

n.oe..wwNotre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n. oe..ww Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All clualfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cMrac:ters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x11n 
useo···:rExraooi<S::"At:t:···e:·u:ssesl 
Bought & Sold--Bast prices! PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph.233-2342 
Who Ia God? is this semester's theme of our interdenom'tllnter Varsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study group. Inter­ested? Join us tomorrow, 7pm, 309 Grace. Or call Jim (283 1621) or Andreas (287 4855) tor more into. 
................................................................ 
{ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: French book (Qu'est qui se passe?) Put in light green backback out­side bookstore by mistake. Please call X2865 
LOST: Midway Airlines tix from DFW to LGA on IYI3 somewhere bi Nieuwland Lib and 2nd ft LaFortune on IY25. Vef'/ impt. $$ reward. call OJ 287-5502 
................................................................ 
LOST: Ring. Aat navy blue stone, engraved MC and 62 on side, monogrammed MMG, lost in Flanner Hall al end of spring semester. Great sen­timental value. Reward. Call collect (914) 238-8051. 
i:osr.:el~~··;o··~ld~;·~~;;··io:··o;;i~·~··& 
Key and calling card on my way lrom Dillon to Flenner. Call 283-2558 Chrissy. Reward. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 683­8889-287-6389 
................................................................ 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR FOOTBALL WWEEKENOS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ... 1-219-291­7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-3684-288·0955 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY ST. $1251 MO. OWN ROOM, SHARE BATH CALL BILL, ED, OR SCOTT 287­7933 OR STOP BY. WE DON'T GET PHONE UNTIL FRIDAY 
Rent a Computer for tha school year or tor that special project. Macintosh or IBM. 674-5973 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE, 810 HOWARD ST. $300MO¢UTILITIES. DEPOSIT RE­QUIRED 288·1002 
Efficiency apt. near N.D. $160 & $140 mo. Call 259-4943. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAKFAST. Just 20 mlna. from NO. Ideal· for all NO activities. Reaarve now. 6111-471-5711. 
Nice fum. home. Safe area near N.D. 287-6389-683-8889 
WANTED 
I NEED A RIDE TO PmSBURGH ANY WEEKEND SOON. CAN OFFER RIDE BACK. DAVE-271-0758. 
NEED MONEY? WE DISTRIBUTE BOOKS. 10-20 FLEX HRS. PER WEEK $4-HR. 288-1002 BETWEEN 5 AND 7 PM 
NOW HIRING. DOMINO'S PIZZA. DRIVERS, PIZZA MAKERS, PHONE HELP. $4 HR. PLUS TIPS & MILEAGE . CALL AFTER 3:30P.M. 2n-2151 OR STOP AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
Tuition paying parents need MIAMI and MICHIGAN GAs--Will pay $$ or TRADE USC or PENN STATE tix. Save a lite, call 3593. 
LEADERS WANTED!! CONTACT ARMY ROTC AT 239-6264 ASK FOR CPT WARRICK 
I NEED 3 STANFORD GA TICKETS111F YOU HAVE ANY OR KNOW WHERE I CAN GET SOME. PLEASE CALL MIC­HELLE X 4021 
Aide needad to U of !-Champaign. Leave Fri. Sept 2. Will pay $$.Call Scott at1045 
FORSALE ) 
BMW 2002, '72, sunrl, engine rebll--runs like new. $4000 219-872-2636 
1980 DATSANSX 200 RUN GOOD SOME RUST 232 5762 
ALL NEW GLEE CLUB MEMBERS TUXEDO FOR SALEI Very Cheap· Cllll Mark at 1423 
TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALE! Two PRINCE SPECTRUM ceremlc rae· quets with cover and pre-atrung for $180. 
All Interested Cllll Mark at 1423 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FORONLY$70.00PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 
MACMODEM FOR THE MACINTOSH. 
COMP. WITH ALL MAGS. MANY FEA­TURES CABLES,MANUALS,SOFTWARE INCL ASKING $350 CHUCK AT 3211 
Blue, lull-size sola, excellent cond. 2 day beds wt:orner table (sofas by day, twin beds by night), pen. cond. 255-4048. 
Smalllridge, less than 6 months old $70; large microwave oven in great condition, instructions etc. $150. Call Gerry (x.7125) 
FOR SALE: 1979 PONTIAC FIREBIRD. Everything works. V8.automatic,Air., pwr.steering-brakes,AMf'M stereo,1 owner(N.D.student),clean.$1500 or best offer. 239-6209 
87 CAMARO, FIRE RED, LOADED. LIKE NEW, $85006.0. CALL X3856 
································································ 
TICKETS 
I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAME TIXS.272-6308 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL HOME GAMES. 272.0058. 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and be in their band. My sister is in the Band of the Fighting IRISH. My parents need to be at the MichigarvND game to prevent my siblings lrom killing each othar and to see their beloved children at this game of high sentimental value. Help stop needless violence. Sal! me 2 tickets and keep my family intact. $$ little or no ob­ject. Call 2804 or 272-7690. 
................................................................ 
PENN STATE GA'S NEEDED. TOP PRICE PAID. 288-2841 
MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX WANTED. 288-2841 
................................................................ 
HELP!!! NEED GA TIX FOR MICH, STAN, MIA, RICE, PENN ST GAMES CALL CHRIS AT 272-0882 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STANFORD PURDUE MIAMI OR USC. VERY SERIOUS $$$$$$$$$$ IN­VOLVED.CALL JORGE • 2065. 
Need 2 Mich Tix x2707 Melissa 
................................................................ 
NEED 4 NO-PENN ST. TIXt CALL COL· LECT DAVE OR KIM, 317·243-9430 (DAY), 317-839-9334 NIGHT. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME GAME. CALL 284-5666 FOR $$$. 
HAVE BEEN TOLD TO GET ONE MIC­HIGAN TICKET OR THE GOOD LORD WILL CALL ME HOME. CALL STEVE 1662 
................................................................ 
I will do ANYTHING In exchange tor either one student or one GA lor the Mic­higan game. Call Kerstin at4220. Please help me because I am desperate. 
................................................................ 
NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIC­HIGAN GAME, WILL PAY $$$$1 CALL BILL x1837 
NEED 2 TIX MICH-ND. CALL COLLECT 315-672-3617 AFTER 5 PM. 
NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 287·3311 DAYS 7-5. 
................................................................ 
NEED (4) NOTRE DAME-PENN STATE TICKETS! CALL COLLECT DAVE OR KIM, DAY 317-243-9430 OR NIGHT 317-839-9334. 

PENN STATE GAME 2 Tickets needed call John x3068 or leave name 
I need 2 Miami GAs more than anyone else on this page. $$$$ x1609 
NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT OR GA. CALL TONY AT 1089 
WILL TRADE 2 ND-MICH TIX FOR 2 NO-MIAMI T!X. CALL 407-727-8354. 
NEED MICHIGAN TIXI CALL MIKE OR JAKE AT 288-2268 OR 287-8104. 
HOME GAME FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED. CALL 283-1143, FLANNER HALL # 626. ASK FOR TIM. 
HEY!!! Need Stanford, Pitt & Mich tix. Call John at 3410. 
································································ 
BEAT THE RUSH sell your Miami tickets now! 4 recent and wealthy alums are looking for 4 GA's or student tix. You name the price. Call Sara at x2851 or Mary at 289-9134. 
ABSOLUTELY MUST GET 1 MICH. TIX, OR I'M IN BIG TROUBLE, HELP! SSS$ 
# 4639. 

I NEED TICKETSllllll Okay, ao does everybOdy else, but I really need them. I need 6 tickets for Purdue, either student or GA. Please help me out. I will pay Cllah, children, food, drugs, anything tor them. Call Jim at 1109 or leave a meaaage at 239­7471 . 
................................................................ 
MI-AM-I in need of tickets. 4 GA's needad(Miami) call Jim at 1647 WILL PAY$$$$ 
:o;~~~~i;lv··~;;;;;;·a·M;~;;·(3A:·~:··iii9""$$ 
involved. Call Andrea at 3858. 
I have FOUR Michigan tickets to trade for FOUR Miami tickets. Please call ASAP ff interested. Call Karen x2722 . 
................................................................ 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD FOR 2 MICH GA'S CALL MIKE 2238 
HELP!! Michigan ticket desperately needed! Miami ticket, too. (student or GA). PLEASE call Susan at 2722. 
sei:i:..M"e..Mic.HiG;;N"··ric.I<E:rs:··c"ACi. 
MARIE 277-5294 

HELP!! NEED THREE MICHIGAN GA'S. ANYTHING YOU WANT. CALL SAM AT 259-8337. 
i..Ne.iio..oN·ii·s-ruoeN:r..ofi..iili:·FoR 
MICHIGAN CALL BILL AT 1647 
s~;;,-;;·~~~k";; ..i.1i~hi~~~··;;;;·i~-~iiti~~··;~ 
pay big bucks tor 2 GA tickets to see his team fail miserably Sap!. 10. Call his ticket agent at X3489. Ask tor Brian. 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN AND PURDUE, STUDENT OR GA. CALL MICHELLE AT 2668. 
N";;;;····M"iciiii3iiN····ti~i(si~;;;;~iiA:i, 
Have Stanford,AirForce,Rice,Navy,& Mich.State GA's to trade. Call # 4031 MY BEST FRIEND FROM FLORIDA WANTS TO FREEZE TO DEATH!! PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE TICKET!! WILL PAY $$$. CALL MIMI AT SMC 5221 
PERSONALS 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x11n 
THE UNDERGROUND THE UNDERGROUND THE UNDERGROUND THE UNDERGROUND 
OAR HOUSE open 'Ill 3 a.m. U.S. 31 North, one block south of Holiday Inn. 
i3iivs···;;N"o····ciis8iiiN"s···:;.:;:···N·a:r·iie 
DAME1ST MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46656 
IRISH GARDENS IS NOW OPEN FOR BUSINESS PLANTS FROM $3.110 FLOWERS FOR YOUR LOVED ONES Open 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
"WINDY CITY SHUTILE" sponsored by the Student Activities Office will start Sat­urday, Sap!. 3, departing lrom the Main Circle 9:45am. Tickets $10 at LaFortune Information Desk. Next shuttle will run Saturday, Sept. 17. Unversity 1.0. re­quired . 
i··oEsPEFi"Arei:v·~;;;;;;··;;·(3;;:~·;~~-Mi;. 
higan. I can get by with 2 of those as student tix. My family is willing to pay a lot of$$$$$. Please call T.J. at 283-1837. 
................................................................ 
RUDE GIRL LOOKING TO MAKE BAND TO SING WITH SKA, FUNK, AND REGGAE INFLUENCES. IF INTER­ESTED, CALL 284-5414 
................................................................ 
EXPERIENCED DRUMMER SEEKING BAND. TOM AT 2n-7571 
................................................................ 
Grand Opening! Grand Opening! THEODORE'S! Featuring: THE GROOVE Friday Night. Doors open at 9:00P.M. Come early. Space limited. 
ro.riiii.Guv·i"iiiii:P"eo.iir.Ttie..sFiiiR 
LOOKING FOR SCULPTURE BOOKS. WANT TO GET TOGETHER SOME­TIME? ·FROM THE GIRL ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SHELF. LINDA 284-5140 
................................................................ 
TO CTO WADE: WAA, WAA, WAA I WANNA GO HOME WAA, WAA, WAA I WANT MY MILK AND COOKIES 
................................................................ 
to JIMMY MAHER: con-JAZZ· ulationsll!llll Diana and Ann 
Nancy2 Clements2 Tho crossing the miles frees the eyes to discover sights they have never before seen I cannot imagine a treasure more precious than good friends who much more to me mean. Luv-vmel 
For my Snuggle, I miss you XOXOX Bunny 
MUSH AND T-1-GRR-R, NOT EVEN CLOSE!! BONES NEEDS A DATE WITH HIS DREAM GIRL AND SPOT NEEDS A NEW PAIR OF SHOES!! P.S. OONT FORGET THE ROSES AND MAKE THE SHOES SIZE 1011 
Thanks to everyone who halped to make my 21st such a special day! Love. Tharese 
To whom rt may concern, On August 22 of this year a box contain­ing various books was taken from the back area ol Farley Hall. The box has the name Michael Ury on it. If you mis­takenly took this or took it on purpose please return it. This box contains many of my books needed for my major. If you have any information please call # 3331. No questions will be asked and your cooperation will be greatty appreciated. Now finish reading the rest of tha per­sonals. 
PEAVEY P.A. SYSTEM FOR SALE 400w head, 150w cabinets Excellent! condrtion, AWESOME sound call Paul x1847 anytime 
Premier 4 piece Drum krt FOR SALE Just refinished. make me an offer call Paul x1847 anytime 
My family -From MIAMI-wants to see the Irish blow away tha CANES Don't let them down II need 4tickets tor the MIAMI game. Money$$$$ is no object -at all. Call Paul x1847 anytime. 
Jerry Larkin Congratulations on sewing your own button. Your family would be proud. 
Hey Mike, 
Any time you need help wrth your shirt 
stays just let me know. I'd be happy to 
oblige. 
Bin H 
Happy Birthday to tha "Well-known American volley­ball star" Kathy Cunningham! 
Wish her a great 21 stl 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NEW MOVIE REVIEWER-EXCITING ACCENT WRITER REALLY BRIAN NO MOREll! WE CAN ONLY STAND ONE PERSON TO BE SO TALENTED BEFORE YOU WILL HAVE TO WRITE ABOUT YOUR­SELF IN IRISH ITEMS 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY DANIELLE "C.N. SOUP" GRAHAM! WE HOPE THE POLO MAN ISN'T THERE TO WATCH YOU BLOW OUT ALL YOUR CANDLES, BY THE WAY, WHAT COLLEGE DOES BRIAN GO TO? HAVE FUN AT BRIDGET'S, BY THE WAY, WHERE DOES SHE LIVE? WE LOVE YOU! K.C .• JEN, MICHELLE & KATIE (YOUR 4 OTHER ROOMIES) 
I NEED A RIDE TO GRAND RAPIDS, MI. FRI. SErT. 2 CALL JENI X4430 
SMC EQUESTRIAN CLUB MEETING 
6:00 SUNDAY, ROOM 105 SCIENCE BLD. 

Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
page 9 

Sports Lists Sports Calend~_r___..: Volleyball Schedule 

Home games in CAPS Thursday
hat Supports College Athletics? 
Men's soccer vs. LOYOLA, Ill. Women's soccer vs. IU-SOUTH BEND 

Football 

Friday 
Men's golf hosting the
of revenue 

Basketball Institutional Support Student Fees State Aid Investment Incom Other Sports Other Income 
18.3o/o 
6.1 °/o 
6°/o 2.3o/o 
2.1 o/o 0.9°/o 
7.1 °/o 
NOTRE DAME OPEN 
Saturday Volleyball vs. INDIANA Men's soccer vs. Maine at Easton, Pa. Women's golf hosting the LADY IRISH INVITATIONAL Men's golf hosting the NOTRE DAME OPEN 
Sunday Men's golf hosting the NOTRE DAME OPEN Women's golf hosting the LADY IRISH INVITATIONAL Men's soccer vs. Lafayette at Easton, Pa. 
Monday 

-American League 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Minnesota at Texas, late 
Eaat  Weal  
w  L  Pet.  G8  
DetroH  74  57  .565  Oakland  81  50  
Boat on  73  56  .566  M1nnesota  73  57  
NawYori<  68  60  .531  4.5  Kansas City  69  62  
Milwaukee  68  67  .504  8  Calllomla  68  64  
Toronto  65  67  .492  9.5  Texas  59  70  
Cleveland Baltimore  64 45  68 64  .465 .349  10.5 28  Chicago Seattle  56 52  74 79  
Tueaday'a Reaulta  
Chicago 4, Detroit I Cleveland 4, Kansas City t Milwaukee 6, Toronto 2  New Vorl< at Seattle, late Baltimore at Calllornia, late Boston at Oakland, late  

Men's Soccer Schedule 
Date 
SEPT 1. 
Sept 3-4 
Sept9 SEPT 11 Sept 16 SEPT 18 SEPT 23 SEPT 25 Sept27 SEPT 30 
Oct2 Oct 5 Oct 9 OCT13 Oct 16 Oct 22 Oct 29-30 
NOV 2 Nov 4-6 Day TH SA 
su 
F 
su 
F 
su 
F 
su 
TU F 
su 
w 
su 
TH 
su 
SA 
SA 
su w 
F-SU 
Opponent LOYOLA, Ill.% vs. Maine' at Lafayette• at Indiana XAVIER% at Michigan St DAYTON% WESTERN MICHIGAN BIRMINGHAN SOUTHERN at Bowling Green DETROIT% 
at Wisconsin at Valparaiso at Akron DePAUL at Col. of Charleston at Rutgers vs. Penn State¢ vs. Boston U.¢ 
WIS.-GREEN BAY at MCC Championships (St. Louis, Mo) 

Home matches at Moose Krause Field % Midwestern Collegiate Conference game 
• Met Life Tournament--Easton, Pa. ¢ Florida International Classic--Miami, Fla. 
Women's Soccer Schedule 
.618  
.562  7.5  
.527  12  
.508  14.5  
.457  21  
.439  23.5  
.397  29  

Time 7:30 1:00 3:00 7:30 1:00 
4:00 1:00 7:30 1:00 3:30 7:30 
1:00 5:00 1:00 7:30 TBA 7:30 TBA TBA 
1:00 TBA 
Day TH TU F 
su 
su 
w 
F 
su 
TU F 
su 
TU SA TU TH SA 
su 
F-SA 
National League 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eaat  
w  L  Pet.  
New Vorl<  78  53  .595  
Pittsburgh  71  61  .536  
Montreal  66  65  .504  
Chicago  64  65  .496  
St. Louis  61  71  .462  
Philadelphia  54  n  .412  
Weal  
~os Angeles  n  54  .568  
Houston  71  60  .542  
San Francisco  69  63  .523  
Cincinnati  67  64  .511  
San Diego  64  67  .489  
Atlanta  45  87  .341  

Tueaday'a Reaulta Cincinnati 6, Pittsburgh 4 Los Angeles 4, Expos 2 New Vorl< 1, San Oiego 0 Philadelphia 7, San Francisco 5 St. Louis 9, Atlanta I Houston 7, Chicago 4 

Knights of Columbus 
G8 
7.5 12 13 
17.5 24 
6 8.5 10 13 32.5 



NO's Only Fraternity invites you to an OPEN HOUSE with interviews and refreshments on 
Wednesday Aug. 31 7-10 pm 
Thursday Sept. 1 7-10 pm 
Monday Sept. 5 7-10 pm 
Tuesday Sept. 6 7-10 pm 
We're 
................... t next door to the bookstore! 

Opponent Time INDIANA 7:30 STANFORD 7:30 Saluki Invitational' vs. Bowling Green 10 am vs. Arizona 4:30 vs. Iowa noon vs. Southern Illinois 7:00 Holiday lnn--Univ. Pk Classic% 5:30 at Purdue 7:00 RICE 7:30 NORTHWESTERN 7:30 BUTLER 7:30 
WESTERN MICHIGAN 7:30 at Kentucky 7:30 at Pacific 7:30 at San Jose St 7:30 at Minnesota 7:30 at Iowa 7:30 OHIO STATE 7:30 NEBRASKA 7:30 LOUISIANA STATE 7:30 
Eastern Michigan 7:30 MICHIGAN 7:30 GOLDEN DOME CLASSIC 6:00 Western Michigan Invitational¢ 6:00 Whataburger Thanksgiving Invite$ 6:00 
NFL Preseason 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eaat 
w L T Pet. PF PA NY Giants 3 1 0 .750 99 56 Washington 3 1 0 .750 137 96 Dallas 2 2 0 .500 75 104 Philadelphia 2 2 0 .500 67 66 Phoenix 1 3 0 .250 92 94 
c.ntr81 

Minnesota 3 1 0 .750 91 n Green Bay 1 2 1 .375 72 104 Chicago 1 3 0 .250 72 99 Detroit 0 4 0 .000 31 76 Tampa Bay 0 4 0 .000 31 76 Weat 
San Francisco 3 2 0 .600 130 119 Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 63 105 New Orleans 2 2 0 .500 90 97 LA Rams 2 3 0 .400 113 104 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat 
w l T Pet. PF PA Indianapolis 3 1 0 .750 63 55 Miami 2 3 0 .400 87 105 NY Jets 3 0 .250 68 61 Buffalo 3 0 .250 49 74 
New England 3 0 .250 89 109 Central 
Houston 4 0 01.000 114 50 Cincinnati 4 1 0 .600 110 62 Cleveland 3 1 0 .750 60 37 Pittsburgh 3 1 0 .750 113 103 
Weat 

Denver 3 1 0 .750 108 91 Seattle 3 1 0 .750 96 60 Kansas City 2 1 I .625 103 96 LA Raiders I 3 0 .250 91 118 San Diego 1 3 0 .250 61 113 
Sunday'• Garm1a 

Stan of regular uaaon Miami at Chicago Atlanta at Detroit Dallas at Pittsburgh LA Rams at Green Bay Minnesota at Buffalo Philadelphia at Tampa Bay Phoenix at Cincinnati San Francisco at New Orleans NY Jets at New England Houuston at Indianapolis San Diego at LA Raiders Seattle at Denver Cleveland at Kansas City 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
Bible Study 
We are an interdenominational group of Christians who meet each week on Thursday 7-8:30pm in 309 Grace to read the Bible. Whether you are a Christian or not, you are warmly invited to come and have a look at us and what we do. 
Just be there tomorrow, or call Jim (283 1621) or Andreas (287 4855) for further information. 
\leneedson with
theronfidmce~~ 
the dedication of 
amarathoner and the 
rourage rian explorer. 
Yk need a Peace Corps YOiun~r Call u•atl~l4-1.510. Exl. 9~. 
PeaaCorps.
........,..,....""""'· 

Date 
SEPT 3 
SEPT 7 
Sept 9-10 
Sept. 16-17 Sept. 21 SEPT 23 SEPT 27 SEPT 30 
OCT 1 
Oct 8 
Oct 18 Oct 19 Oct 21 Oct 22 OCT25 OCT 28 OCT 29 
Nov 4 NOV 5 NOV 11-12 Nov 18-19 Nov 25·26 
Day SA 
w 
F 
SA 
F-SA 
w 
F TU F 
SA 
SA 
TU 
w 
F SA TU F SA 
F SA F-SA F-SA F-SA 

*Survey of 48 Division I schools for 1987-88 
No events scheduled 

SOURCE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION 
Tuesday The Observer/Geoff Sauer Women's soccer at St. Joseph's 

• at Carbondale, II. % at Fort Collins, Colo. rt at Kalamazoo, Mich. $ at Austin, Texas 
Date SEPT 1 Sept 6 Sept 9 Sept 11 SEPT 18 SEPT 21 SEPT 23 SEPT 25 Sept 27 SEPT 30 
Oct 2 Oct4 OCT8 OCT 11 Oct 13 OCT15 Oct 23 Oct 28-29 
Nov 4 

Opponent  Time  
I USB  5:00  
St. Joseph's  4:00  
at Indiana  TBA  
at Lake Forest  TBA  
WESTERN MICHIGAN  11:00  
WHEATON  7:30  
ADRIAN  5:00  
ST. JOSEPH'S  3:00  
at Chicago  TBA  
SAINT MARY'S  5:00  
at Marquette  11:30  
at IUSB'  5:00  
CALVIN COLLEGE  1:00  
NORTHWESTERN  7:00  
at Saint Mary's  3:30  
BOWLING GREEN  TBA  
at Bowling Green  TBA  
at Dayton Tournament  TBA  
at Michigan St  TBA  

AP Poll 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college lootball teams in The 
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­
theses, this season's records and total points. Points 
based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
are italicized.  
1. Florida St. (41)  0-0-0  
2. Nebraska  1-0-0  
3. Oklahoma (1)  0-0-0  
4. Clemson (3)  0-0-0  
5. UCLA (2)  0-0-0  
6. Miam/,Fia  0-0-0  
7. Auburn  0-0-0  
6. usc (1)  0-0-0  
9. Iowa  0-0-0  
10. Michigan  0-0-0  
11. Texas A&M  0-1-0  
12. Georgia  0-0-0  
13. Notre Dame  ()..(H)  
14. Alabama  0-0-0  
15. Michigan St  o-o-o  
16. W. Virginia  0-0-0  
17. LSU  0-0-0  
18. Tennessee  0-0-0  
19. S. Carolina  0-0-0  
20. Penn Stale  o-o-o  

1032 939 945 832 754 
714 
707 
687 
619 
562 
453 378 351 343 
288 
270 
267 
232 157 
153 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, August 31 , 1988 
Defensive line dominates despite injuries 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
With the recent series of in­juries, one might expect lack­luster performances from Notre Dame's defensive line in early fall practices. 
Much to the delight of line co­ach John Palermo, the opposite has happened. The defense has dominated the fall practices, adding to the problems of an already struggling offensive line. 
"I like to think we have some­thing to do with it," Palermo said of the offensive line's prob­lems. "We're going to have a real test Sept. 10 against Mic­higan. Hopefully we'll get bet­ter, play fundamentally hard and make things happen." 
The line is currently without the services of senior Tom Gor-
China 
continued from page 12 
will also find out if the lessons learned in exhibition play wil­lcarry through into the regular season. The real test will be for the freshmen, who will be get­ting their first taste of col­legiate volleyball. 
Two freshmen, setter Julie Bremner and hitter Jai Bruno, started every game in China, which should make their transition easier. Junior hitter Kathy Cunningham got her first taste of competition since last year when she had surgery to repair a dislocated shoulder. Lam_bert also was impressed 
Soccer 
continued from page 12 
all-time scoring chart with 82 points. Morris set the single­season assist record last year with 17 in 21 games. 
Sophomore Danny Stebbins man at tackle. Gorman had 23 solo tackles and one sack last season. The 6-6, 255-pounder is battling a pulled chest muscle, but Palermo says he will be back for the Michigan opener. 
Tackle Bob Dahl, out with an bruised thigh, will most likely be back in action at Michigan State. Ted FitzGerald is also on the injured list, fighting a sprained knee. FitzGerald re­corded 16 tackles last fall. 
Even with those injuries, the competition is still fierce for the starting spots. Sophomore Chris Zorich is at nose tackle with sophomore George Wil­liams and juniors Jeff Almand Bryan Flannery fighting for the right and left tackle posi­tions. 
Flannery had 18 tackles last year while Alm had five. Zorich did not play a down last fall, 
by the play of senior captain Maureen Shea and senior Zanette Bennett. 
The players spent most of their time either training or competing in games, but they also found time to enjoy a bit a Chinese culture. 
"It was quite a transition," said Cunningham. "We had to adjust to different food and a new environment, but it helped bond the team together and make it stronger." 
The "famous American vol­leyball stars," as they were billed by many press releases and banners, visited the Great Wall and the Ming Tombs on their day as tourists, and even 
omore Mike Drury will fill the sweeper position vacated by Steve Lowney. Stopper Paul LaVigne will get the assign­ment of marking the opposi­tion's top forward, and he will be joined at times by Guignon in a double-stopper formation. 

Jeff Aim and Williams played only eight minutes. "Right now, we have not settled on a starting lineup," Palermo said. "We have a scrimmage Friday and a meeting Sunday, then we'll be able to give a lineup for the 

Michigan game." 
Others battling for spots on the line are juniors Steve Roddy and Mike Crounse, soph­omore Mike Callan and fresh­men Mirko Jurkovic and Ber­nard Mannelly. 
"There are very, very good athletes on the defensive line," Zorich said. "The best three of these athletes will start against Michigan." 
The Irish defensive line came under criticism last season for lack of an effective pass rush. Palermo hopes to change that this fall, but says the effective­ness of the rush will depend largely on the opponent. For example, Notre Dame will con­
centrate  on  curbing the  run­ 
ning  game  against  the  
Wolverines.  

"Pass rush depends a lot of 
the time on what the offense does," Palermo said. "The No. 1 priority against Michigan is to stop the run. That's our goal. That's what we've been working on in practice." 
"We are definitely going to have a pass rush," Zorich promised. "If I have a chance to get the quarterback, I'll get a sack." 
For now, though, those sacks will come only against fellow Irish teammates. The opener against the Wolverines is still more than a week away, and Palermo said he thinks there is considerable room for im­provement. 
"Generally, we can always improve fundamentally on the little things," Palermo said. "Most ofthe time the big things take care of themselves." 

gave potato peelers and bar-• 
UBA TURNS 21 TQDAYI
rettes to people on the streets-: · • -a gesture the Chinese • genuinely appreciated. The team saved their Notre Dame paraphernalia for their Chinese counterparts, who they got to know better while HAPPY travelling by train to their 
BIRTHDAY
matches. "It was a chance of a 
STEVE!
lifetime," said Assistant Ath­letic Director Brian Boulac, who travelled with the team. "Coming from the United 
LOVE,

States its hard to imagine a city like Beijing with more than 11 MOM, DAD, SUZIE million people, but a trip like (CHUBA, DUBA, AND. this gives you the opportunity SUBA) • to see the diversity of culture •• 
few people get to see." ·····················­
,.............................................., 
Keepers -Danny Lyons returns as the starter after suc­cessfully postponing until the spring a chance to study a se­mester abroad. Senior Kevin Mayo has been impressive in the preseason and should see some action this season. 



and freshman Mitch Kern also will see action at forward. Midfielders ­Senior captains Guignon and Joe Sternberg return, as does two-year starter Rolfe Behrje. Not re­turning is senior Kurt Roemer, who transferred to St. John's (Minn.), but into his spot steps Steve LaVigne, a sophomore who has been impressive in the preseason. Sternberg sometimes will move up to the forward posi­tion, and senior Pat Murphy can sub at either forward or midfield. Backs -Senior Danny Gordon and junior captain Dave Augustyn will hold down the wingback positions, and soph- COLOR TV RENTALS Microwaves -stereos 25" TV -only $90 I semester & Tax 19" TV -only $70 I semester & Tax FREE DELIVERY FREE SERVICE COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959  
Act as an Ambassador to your High School representing the Notre Dame Admissions Office Pick up an application for the Undergraduate Schools Committee in the Admissions Office before September 2 ADWQRK:.  

------------------------------------------------------~·---­
Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
CAMPUS 
12:10 p.m. -1:00 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
6:30 p.m. Department of Religious Studies video, In­gemar Bergman's "Winter's Light (The Com­municants)," Carroll Hall. 
7:00 p.m. Accountancy Placement Night, sponsored by Career and Placement Services, for all Accountancy majors, Hesburgh Library A1,1ditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT ~ 
4:00p.m. "Seniors: Are YouReadyforthe Real World?" is the title of a talk to be given at a meeting for students interested in a Liberal Arts internship. The meeting is today at 4 p.m. in 170 LeMans Hall. For information, call 284-4565. 
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy,'' by Professor Richard Lamb, Iowa State University. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Devonshire Sandwich BBQ Pork Chops Pasta Bar Oven Roasted Potatoes 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Steak Swedish Meatballs French Style Waffles Deli Bar 
The Observer 
page 11 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

30 Seeking 54 White-leaved I Is tearful damages vegetable &Dull 31 Leftover 55 See 48 Across 
10"-lazy morsel 57 English school river ..." 32 Slip by, as time 58 Trudeau 13 Tree-lined 34 Affable creation 
walk expression 63 Sedative, e.g. 14 Ambiance 37 Took steps 64 U.S.S.R. river 15 Slight 39 Wrath 65 Hitchcockian 16 Table item 40 In concert appearance 18 Motionless 41 Take in 66 Barfly 19 "L.A. Law" 42 Unmelodic 67 Hoosegow 
partner 44 Haw. 68 Bean of 20 Most instrument comedy antiquated 45 Stroke of luck DOWN 22 Noted 47 Enchanted 

1 "Since Hector 
suspense creature -apup"author 48 With 55 Across, 2 High note25 Necessitates U.S. composer 3 Wing, to27--tse, 49 Sugar-free, WrightTaoism maybe 4 Dewdrop founder 52 Bandleader locale28 Actor Selleck Martin 5 Hid 6 Famed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Surrealist 7 Yardstick 8 Southern 

constellation 9 Extravagantly ornate 10 British subway system 
23 A Polo news shortII Sign of life 24 Opposite of 40 Out-of-doors 51 Sound from a12 Helps a yegg peaked 42 Chipped in a swamp15 RR stopovers 26 Ancient Jewish chip 53 Prevent 17 Join a book ascetic 43 Actress passageclub 29 Fruity libation Woodard 56 Part of S.R.O.
21 Him, in 33 Favoring 46 Ore. neighbor 59 Sierra gold Marseilles 35 Signed a 49 "Foul-will 60 Ers' relatives22 "A Jug of contract rise": Hamlet 61 Old autoWine, 36 Deprived 50 Opening 62 Hither's

"· 

38 Like very good segment, for partnerFitzGerald 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 





8·31 C1M8Unlwrul~ 



Sports
page 12 Wednesday, August 31, 1988 
Seniors lead Irish soccer squad into '88 season 
·-­
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
The following appeared in the Sept. 2, 1985 issue of The Observer: 
The Notre Dame soccer team opened its 1985 season yesterday with a 3-0 loss at Virginia . .. The Irish were unable to stay in the game with the Cavaliers, who are ranked third in the country. 
"We just got schooled," remembers senior captain John Guignon of the first game of his collegiate career. "We had four freshmen start, and eventually six 
were on the field. We knew we had a long way to go." Four years later, the Irish have come a long way. 
"We went through the pits in '85 with a 7-11-4 record," says Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "But I did it for a reason, and look where we are now. The players have done things nobody gave them a chance to do." 
Last season the team rocketed to a 17-3-1 record and a national ranking, just missing a bid to the NCAA Tourn­ament. Now, as the Irish open their 1988 season Thursday night at Krause Stadium, they prepare for a grueling road schedule and the challenge of proving last season's top-20 ranking was no fluke. 

And leading the way for the team will be the seniors, Grace's first recruiting class, the same players involved in that loss to Virginia four years ago. And the seniors, of which five will start and two others come off the bench, will settle for no less this season than an NCAA 
bid. "To get to 

The I Colleen Wagner Membera of the Chii'IH8 volleyball team teach Notre Dame volleyball players a blocking drill 
Chinese teach Irish volleyball on trip 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team has returned home after a ten day tour through China, where it played members of a team head coach Art Lambert considers to be one of the smartest and best he's ever seen. 
That team, comprised of players from the Chinese Olympic team that won the gold medal in 1984 and the World Championship in 1985, won each of the five matches played, and they taught the Irish some valuable lessons. 
"It was a tremendous learning experience," said Lambert. "We learned a few new tech­niques and they forced us to turn our intensity level up a notch. Playing a team like China enabled us to find out exactly where our strengths and weaknesses are." 
The trip took the Irish through Beijing, Har­bin and Daqing, and exposed them to fanfare seldom encountered in the United States. They attracted capacity crowds at every stop, as people packed into gyms to see players like Lang Ping--known as the "Iron Hammer"--who is considered a national hero and one of the best hitters in the world. The players often spent a half hour before each match wading through throngs of people and small children who sang as they presented them with flowers. 
"The crowds were terrific," said Lambert. "If we played in a gym that held 5,000 people, then 5,000 showed up. If we played in one that held 10,000, then 10,000 showed up. People love volleyball over there." 
The Irish will find out if Americans--and Notre Dame fans--share this enthusiasm for the sport this Saturday as they host Indiana. They 
see CHINA, page 10 
Graduate students, sophomores buy tickets 
GATE 4 GATE 5 GATE 6
GATE3 GATE7 
00"~\ --1~00<0
/,:~CD 0 CD CD ® ® ® ® ~:'\
GA TE1 ~f. n n n n n n n n !7~ GA 
0 ~ = -~ ®
~" 
c J . , I 
"'@
CD I 
''I;' 
I GATE
~lllEJffiillj<®
-., =rui!IAAY•3~.f.\ml1lll:(J 
@c 1 I I I 
::.@) I 10 
®~ j_j_j --;.@__
) 
Sophomore and gradate stu­dent ticket sales begin today for the 1988 Notre Dame foot­ball season. 
Students are asked to bring their application, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the Joyce Athletic and ConvocatiorJ Center on the day specified for each class. One student may present a maximum of four (4) applications and ID cards. Married students wishing to purchase a season ticket for their spouse must show proof of marriage. 
Student football ticket appli­cations have been sent to all students with a campus or local address. If you have not received your application or if the class status preprinted on your application is incorrect, you are asked to come to the Ticket Office 
GATE 18 
TE 17 @ U U U U U U U U @ GAT
GA E11 
~~ ~~~~ ~~ 
' ® ® ®1@1@1®1®1® ® @ /
GAlE 16'-_/GATE 12
..
GATE 15 
GATE 13
GATE 14 

the tournament is our 
goal," says forward Bruce 'Tiger' McCourt. In fact the starting lineup will be loaded with experience, with three juniors who started and three sop­homores who were regulars by season's end last year. Here is the position-by­position rundown: 
Forwards -Using a 4-2-2 setup, the tandem of McCourt and Randy Morris will start. McCourt currently ranks fourth on the all-time Notre Dame goal chart (35 in 64 games) and fifth on the 
see SOCCER, page 10 

Rice hurdles all that blocks his path 
If Tony Rice ran track he would be a hurdler, leaping obstacles which stand in the way of the finish line. 
The hurdles have certainly been placed before Anthony Eugene Rice during his short career at Notre Dame, beginning even before the affable junior quarterback stepped foot on this campus. 
When Rice signed a national letter of intent to attend college at Notre Dame in February, 1986, it was big news. He had 7,000 career yards in total offense. His team lost only two games in four years of high school, both in the state championship. He 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


was named a Parade All-American. And he had a 640 combined 
score on his Scholastic Aptitude Tests. 
The cry went out--is Lou Holtz lowering Notre Dame's stand­
ards by bringing in an unworthy candidate? Doesn't he realize 
that this is squeeky-clean Notre Dame? Will Tony Rice make it 
at this prestigious University if he comes here? 
No, the standards are the same. Yes, we are still clean. And 
yes Tony Rice has proven that he can make it as a fooball player 
and as a student at the University of Notre Dame. 
The race Tony Rice started two-and-a-half years ago began 
with that first obstacle. It continued with another hurdle--sitting 
out his freshman year under NCAA legislation Proposition 48. 
The signal-caller with the rocket-arm and tree-stump legs was 
now reserved to tossing the pigskin on the greens of South Quad 
instead of the greens of Notre Dame Stadium. 
"One the one hand," says Rice, "I had a lot of opportunities to meet new people that some of the other freshmen football players didn't because they didn't have the free time I had. I really enjoyed the contact and interaction with people. The dis­advantage was that I was a step behind and it was going to be a little harder going into the system under Coach Holtz." 
But now his time has come. Though he was platooned with sophomore Kent Graham much of last season after a broken collarbone sidelined Terry Andrysiak, there is now no question that the Woodruff, S.C. native will be taking the snap come Sep­tember 10 when Bo Schembechler's boys come to town. 
"Tony Rice is our starting quarterback," asserted Lou Holtz at Tuesday's press conference. "You can tell he's the leader from the time he steps into the huddle," continued Holtz. "It was obvious to me when he stepped in at the Pitt game last year and ran the football team that this was not your average competitor. I'm not just talking about his ability to run or his improvements in throwing the football. His leadership qualities and command of the huddle and the team that set him apart from the rest of our quarterbacks. The team just runs very well when he is in there." 
The only thing that was obvious to Rice coming out of his first huddle in the Pitt game was that he was in the wrong place-­behind the guard. He shook off that embarrassing moment as easily as he would dodge opponents in the remaining weeks of the season as he directed the dominating 'Pony Express' running attack. 
Still, the hurdles kept coming. While he continues to bring home the passing grades in the classroom, the grades on his passing have been less than complimentary. But if anything is stable in the Irish offense at this point of fall practice it is the gun of Rice, who completed 14-of-21 tosses in Saturday's scrimmage for 200 yards. 
"This summer I threw all that talk (that he was a poor passer) out of my mind and just came into the fall more relaxed and confident," said Rice. "I knew I was a good passer in high school and I'm a good passer here now. Last year I took what everybody said personally and I thought that maybe they were right. This year I don't worry about what people say--l'll just do my job." 
And that job, the axis around which this football team revolves, is finally his. But the race is not over for Tony Rice. In fact, it is barely half over. There are more hurdles in the way. Michigan is one. Operating behind an inexperienced offensive line is an­other. But these hurdles loom no larger than those which Tony Rice has faced in the past two years. And as he continues to pass his obstacles, the probability that the Irish will pass teams on the way up the polls becomes all the more probable. 








