Welcome Back
/ACCENT: Housing for transfer students 
Partly sunny today with highs in the upper 40s to near 50. -~ 
~-~""";> ~-: 
Fair tonight with lows in the upper 20s. ~ 

/VIEWPOINT: Shedding light on NASA 

VOL. XXI, NO. 109 TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Two charged 
•
1n cocaine bust 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Senior Staff Reporter 
Two Notre Dame students pleaded innocent in Superior Court last week to felony charges of selling and conspir­ing to sell cocaine to an under­cover police officer earlier this month. 
Daniel Trung Nuven, a senior, and Michael James Murphy, a junior, both of 5519 University Park Apartments, are each charged with two counts of conspiring to sell cocaine and two counts of sell­ing the drug, a St. Joseph County court administrator said. 
Each charge carries a punishment of 20 to 50 years in prison. 
Nuven and Murphy, who are free on $2,500 cash bond, are scheduled for trial on June 27. 
The pair also faces possible suspension or dismissal from the University. 
Police arrested Nuven and Murphy on March 9 in the Uni­versity Park mall parking lot, the South Bend Tribune re­ported last week, citing court records. 
The pair was allegedly plan­ning to sell eight ounces of cocaine to an undercover offi­cer, who had posed as a person willing to buy the cocaine for $12,000. 
After the arrest, police said they found cocaine packaged in plastic bags in the car, the Tribune reported. Officers said they also discovered cocaine when they searched Nuven and Murphy's apartment. 
The two are also charged with selling an ounce of cocaine for $1,500 to the same under­cover officer on March 4. 
Murphy reportedly told police that he and Nuven had driven to Miami during Christmas break to buy 10 ounces of cocaine from a man they had visited during Thanksgiving vacation in South America, the Tribune re­ported. 
An informant later told the undercover officer that two men wanted to sell a large 
see COCAINE, page 7 

Two female students attacked on campus 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Security is seeking two suspects in connec­tion with separate assaults on a Notre Dame student and a Saint Mary's student. 
An 18-year-old Saint Mary's student was walking along St. Mary's Road near U.S. 33 around 11:50 p.m. on March 10 when she was grabbed from be­hind by the suspect and thrown onto the pavement, Security reports said. 
The student kicked the suspect and screamed, causing the assailant to flee on foot across a field east of U.S. 33, Security said. 
The student was not injured in the assault, the report said. 
The suspect is described as a five-foot-nine white male be­tween 40 and 50 years old, 180 to 200 pounds, medium build, with gray medium length hair, according to Security. 
The suspect was wearing a dark stocking cap, a dark colored jacket, dark gloves, blue jeans and dark colored shoes, Security said. 
In the second assault, an un­known suspect forcibly entered a residence at O'Hara-Grace 
see ASSAULTS, page 7 


469 
306 




Pasin, Breslin, Tisa 
By REGIS COCCIA News Editor 
Rob Pasin, Matt Breslin and Tom Tisa emerged as the respective winners in the run­off elections for sophomore, junior and senior class offices. 
Voting in the March 8 class elections necessitated run-offs for each class. Results from the March 10 run-off elections were made official shortly before students left for spring break. 
Tisa's ticket garnered 460 votes for 60.1 percent, to defeat opponent Don Diebel, whose ticket received 306 votes for 
39.9 percent. 
"I'm excited about it," said junior Tom Tisa. "We have a good ticket, we worked very hard. We appreciate all those who voted for us and supported us in the election." 
Tisa's ticket will meet with current senior class officers to organize astrategy for the next year, he said. "We're going to try to work with (senior class president) Diane (Fitzgibbon) and her people so we can do the best we can," Tisa said. 
"It's been a long two weeks," said Tisa. "We're happy it's over but we're also happy we did it." 
The newly-elected class offi­cers will officially assume of­fice on April 1, he said. 
Diebel, runner-up in the run­off for senior class president, was disappointed but congrat­ulated Tisa. "I think he had a really good campaign and he did a good job rallying the sup­port of the hall presidents," he said. "We put a lot of work into it. The Tisa ticket certainly did a lot of work, too. I'm happy for them." 
Matt Breslin defeated Bill Fitzgerald by a margin of al­most 12 percent in the run-off 

elected 
for junior class president. Breslin received 560 votes for 
56.1 percent, while Fitzgerald received 439 votes, for 43.9 per­cent. 
"We're all ecstatic about the election results and everybody who helped during the cam­paign did a great job. Bill's ticket should be commended on a great campaign," Breslin said. 
"We're going to try to bring more people into working with the class office," he said. "Basically, we're trying to ex­pand on the ideas of the current officers. The officers this year really did a good job." 
Fitzgerald contended voter turnout at the polls might have altered the election results. "We'd like to say we wouldn't feel so bad if the entire class had voted. But they didn't, so 
see WIN, page 7 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1988 


Of Interest 
Art Buchwald tickets for his lecture titled "While the Gipper Slept" are available today in The Cellar in the LaFortune Student Center or in the American studies of­fice on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The lecture is scheduled for 8 p.m. Wednesday at Washington Hall. 
-The Observer 
AIESEC will be holding the second organizational meeting on Monday, March 28 at 7 p.m. in Room 121 Hayes­Healy. All interested members are asked to attend in order to prepare for upcoming events. For more information call Warren at 283-2482 or Scott at 283-1305. -The Observer 
Junior World Fencing Championships needs volunteers to serve as hospitality students at Notre Dame during Easter Break. If interested stop by Room 309 Ad­ministration Building and fill out a General Information form any time this week. -The Observer 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet this 
evening at 7:30 in the Stanford Hall 24 hour lounge. -The 
Observer 
SMC Appreciation Day will be held tomorrow in Stapleton Lounge from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in honor of the Housekeeping, Grounds Crew, Maintenance, and Marriott Corporation staffs. Refreshments will be served. -The Ob­server 
Engineers' Week events will include the Trivia Contest and an Engineering-Environmental Paper Con­test. Information for both can be found in the Engineering Student Center in 217 Cushing. Prizes are $20 and $50 respectively. An Egg Drop Contest will be held today at 
2:30 p.m. in the Engineering Student Center, the Pie Eating ~ontest will be at 3 p.m. in the Cushing Lobby, and the Datmg Game will be at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Student Center. -The Observer 
University Counseling Center is presenting a ~orkshop e~tit~e~ "Children of Di~orce." This workshop 1s for those md1v1duals who are children of divorced par­ents or children of parents who were often in conflict. It will be held from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Foster Room in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
"Women in Business" will be the topic of a presentation given by two Notre Dame alumnae from the South Bend community this evening at 7 p.m. in the Li­brary Lounge. There will be an opportunity for discussion following the presentation. The event is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Women's Caucus. -The Observer 
Confirmation meeting will be from 7 to 8 p.m. in 
the Campus Ministry Conference Room in Badin hall for 
all Confirmands. -The Observer 
CILA is spo~so_ring an all dar workshop on Saturday, March 26 begmnmg at 9 a.m. m the Hesburgh Library lounge. The workshop is run by Network, a Catholic social justice lobby, and will deal with the platforms of the 1988 Presidential Candidates along with practical information on how to effectively participate in the 1988 elections. All are welcome to attend at any time throughout the day. 
-The Observer 
Anyone interested in being involved with Student Go~ernment for the 1988-89 year should pick up an appli­catiOn on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center and return it completed by 5 p.m. on Thursday, March 24. For more information call Tom at 283-1786 or Mike at 271-0767. -The Observer 
St. Edward's Hall invites you to see Richard Atenborough's new documentary film on Mother Teresa of Calcutta. The film will be shown tomorrow at 9 p.m. in the St. Ed's first floor lounge. -The Observer 
Daniel Levine, faculty fellow of the University of Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, will give a lecture entitled "Comparative Analysis of Grassroots Religious Movements" today at noon in Room 131 Decio. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................... Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout ....... R. Aschenbrenner Design Assistant .............. Slug LaFleur Accent Copy Editor ....... Theresa Loomis Typesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Ridgeway Accent Layout......... Kathleen McCaffrey News Editor... ......... Kendra Lee Morrill Typist ............................... Wendy Burek Copy Editor ..... ........... Cindy Broderick ND Day Editor ....... Theresa Harrington Sports Copy Editor ...... .... Theresa Kelly Photographer ...................... Mike Moran Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Lisa O'Malley 
Tile Olleener (USPS S99 2..o4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina eu.m and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for So40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tile Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S56. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Aaodaloed Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 

Observer organized to serve community 
Today marks the beginning of a new general board of The Observer. 
Each year, as the senior writers, editors, and general staff leave, the new staff moves in de­termined to improve the newspaper in every way imaginable. Our staff is determined to make needed improvements in order to bring the fairest, most accurate, and widest possible variety of news to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
Before defining a basic working philosophy for The Observer, it is first necessary to define what a student newspaper is and what its role is in a university environment. 
The Observer is produced by students for the students. For many of our readers, The Obser­ver is the single source of news information and a link to the outside world. This puts a heavy burden on The Observer's editors; it is a duty that the editors must and will take most serious­ly. 
Each of the editorial departments serves the newspaper in different ways. When each depar­tment's work combines into the actual newspa­per, it should present an accurate reflection of the state of affairs in the community. To un­derstand clearly how our newspaper will be a reflection of the community, it is important to examine the individual departments. 
The news department's primary responsibil­ity is to report the "who's," "what's," "where's," and "why's" of events that occur in our community. Accuracy is a given. Objec­tivity is a vital concern, especially when stu­dents are reporting the news that affects them personally. Therefore, all angles of a story must be covered. Consistency is also a key, both at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The Viewpoint department acts as a balance for the news department. Student, faculty, ad­ministrative, and occasionally parental opinions reflect the attitudes toward the news. For this department to serve its readers and satisfy the philosophy of our newspaper, a va­riety of opinions must be published. Whether individuals agree with certain opinions or not, something can be learned by all when hearing a different viewpoint. Viewpoint is a depart­ment that best reflects the "state of affairs" in the community. This page reflects the concerns of our people; it is a place where opinions ac­tually can make a difference. 
The Accent department's primary duty is to enlighten the communitv to entertaining aspects in our university life. Our new weekend format will give students somewhere to turn to on Friday's to find out what's going on in en­tertainment for the weekend. 

The sports page is the most well-read section of the paper. Our coverage of the major sports is complete, yet we are determined to become more consistent in our coverage of the "minor" sports. 
The photography department isn't often thought of as an editorial department. Photos appearing in The Observer, however, really do make an editorial statement. Like our other departments, photography reflects the state of affairs at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
If the editorial sides are able to fulfill these duties, then we will present an informative and entertaining newspaper everyday. We have a lot of expectations for the upcoming year. I'd like to encourage our readers' input whether The Observer has done something good or bad. 
For now, it's up to the 200-plus employees of The Observer to keep the community informed. It is a job that we will take most seriously. 

-----------~-. 
Tuesday, March 22, 1988 The Observer page 3 
r;:r...r..r...r..r..r..r..r...r..r..r..r..r...r..r...r...r...r...r..r...c--...r...r...r...r...r..r..r..-cr..r...r..r..r..r.r..r...r...r..r..r..rJQ""-'8 into combat with the Sandinis­~ tas. Administration sources 
ll § said Monday it appeared the The Observer I Fr. Paul Aobicheeux8 Sg fighting was ending in any Roman Holiday 
~ ~ ~~~~~r~~~~a~t~i~:~~:~af~~ Artist Valentina Poletto captures the attention of Lisa Julka, Amy Blong8 IMI 8 Honduran soil. Karen Carbone and Sheila O'Donnell, fellow Notre Dame and Saint 
~
II ~r3\ INicaragua, MC~~t·;;;M"b~;g·d·j~h·t;ik~o-,me.
MARRIAGEENRICHMENTSERIEs 
MINISTRY presents ~
I 1Honduras border now peaceful 
§ ~ Associated Press that may happen," he added, At Sapoa, a town on the Costa g and soldiers are "constantly Rican border, representatives8 TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras-patrolling the area." of the Sandinista government
8~ § Nicaragua withdrew its sol-Flores and other officers, and Contras began their first§ § diers from the Honduran bor-some of whom insisted on direct talks Monday on 
§Chris Conway, Ph.D & Sally Coleman, MA, CAC~ ~~~ :o~i~~lin~n~~~~ 1 ~[e~ol~~ :~~~:n~,it~aid {~~ San~~~~;f!~ N~~~a~~:;o:~il~f the negotia­~ § truce talks with Contra rebels, penetrated an area of about 20 tions is to work out a cease-fire 
~ spesklng on ~ :~ceo:.ding to reports from all ~i~![:cemil~~t ins!~~kOl~~n~ ~~a~e~~~~eddint~~~ ~~=rl~=~ 
~ § The border region remained chasing the U.S.-supported presidents signed last Aug. 7. ~ § tense, with Honduran patrols rebels in a two-week offensive ~ S on the lookout for any booby to evict the Contras from Defense Minister Humberto8 S traps left behind by the Sandi-Nicaragua Ortega of Nicaragua said the 8 § nistas. About 200 border incidents Sandinistas would stop fighting ~ § President Jose Azcona Hoyo have been reported in Olancho during the talks, which are 8 MANAGING CONFLICT IN ~ said the 3,200 U.S. troops sent since the Contras began fight-scheduled to last three days, 
~ ~ to Honduras last week, after ing the leftist Sandinista gov-and asked the Contras to do the ~ RELATIONSHIPS 8 the Nicaraguan army was ac-ernment in 1981. same.
(\ : 8 cused of sending 2,000 men President Daniel Ortega and Contra leader Alfredo Cesar,§ HOW TO FIGHT FAIR 8 across the border last Wednes-the Nicaraguan government head of the rebel delegation,S § day in pursuit of Contras, may have denied Sandinista sol-called the Sandinista proposal ~ S not be needed any longer. diers crossed the border. "constructive" and added: "If§ ~ "The worst is over and there The Contras maintain camps they do this, then we also canS § is peace now in the border in an area called Bocay, which take the same measures."8 § region," Col. Reynald Andino includes territory on both sides Sending four battalions of theS S Flores, commander of the Hon-of the border. Nicaragua 82nd Airborne Division and 7th S ~ duran army's 101st Infantry claims the camps, which the Light Infantry to Honduras§ Wednesday, March 23rd § Brigade, said by telephone Contras use to store supplies brought the U.S. military pres­§ ?:30 pm S from his headquarters in south-and to stage raids inside ence in Honduras to more thanS § ern Honduras. Nicaragua, are in Nicaraguan 6,000 men. They are engaged in8 Keenan-Stanford Chapel § "We are remaining on a state land but the rebels say they are joint exercises with the Hon­8 S of alert to be ready for anything in Honduras. durans, but away from the bor­ll 8 der combat area. 




§ §rr=====================:-t and units
U.S. Honduran
§ • 1 JB •ROBINSON have held joint exercises every
1 

~ § ' , few months for the last five 
~ ISSUES TO BE DISCUSSED INCLUDE· §~ .. ~ , JE\VELERS ye:~~e of the American troops
8 · ~ practiced military maneuversS -How to view conflict in the context S FREE at an airstrip only 20 miles ~ of the whole relationship § from the Nicaraguan border on ~ How much is healthy? S Sunday. A U.S. army transport ~ -What are some common sources of 8 ..r3 4-_,.,b Batiery helicopter crashed during an 
1

n conflict ? R • • 1...&; exercise farther from the bor­§ -Stratergiesthatmighthelpl ~ (with Student I.D.) der, injuring several soldiers,
§ 8 Pentagon sources said in Wash­8 8 · · ington. 
~ § come VISit us There were about nine sol­~ § diers aboard the UH-1 helicop­§ THE FORMAT INCLUDES A QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD 8 at ter when it crashed Monday af­8 8 ternoon near Juticalpa,§ § University Park Mall Honduras, said the sources, 
~ 8 who spoke on condition of 
::;rJQ"""..r...r..r...r..r..r..r..r...r...r..r...r..r...r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r...8 L:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:J anonymity. 

U.S. Ar~y copter crashes 
•

during Honduras exerc1se 
Associated Press them survived, the sources where Nicaraguan troops were 
said. fighting Contra Guerrillas last 
WASHINGTON -A U.S. "We have no reports of any week. Army transport helicopter par­fatalities," said one official. The Pentagon sources, who ticipating in a military exer­"But we do have reports of stressed they were awaiting cise in Honduras crashed on some injuries and medical more information from U.S. Monday, and a number of evacuations under way." authorities in Honduras, said it soldiers were reported injured, The sources said the accident was unclear whether the nine Pentagon officials said. did not occur in or near a com­aboard the Huey were all 
The officials, who requested bat zone and did not involve American or whether some of anonymity, said the accident hostile fire. the passengers might have in-occurred Monday afternoon "It looks like it was mechan­eluded Honduran troops. near the Honduran town of ical," said one official. The United States airlifted Juticalpa and involved an The accident scene was said more than 3,100 army troops to American UH-1 Hueytransport to be about six miles south of Honduras last week in a warn­copter. While the initial reports Juticalpa. That would place it ing to the Leftist Sandinista were fragmentary, it appeared 35 miles north of the Honduras­government, after Nicaraguan that the copter was carrying Nicaragua border and about 60 troops moved into Honduras to nine soldiers and that all of miles west of the border region attack base camps of the U.S.­
SObering Advice·:: can savean~7~ 
Think BefOre You Drink ~~ BefOre You Drive • · 
backed Contra Guerrillas. 
After arriving in Honduras, the American soldiers dis­persed around the country for joint exercises with Honduran forces. One of those exercise areas is near Juticalpa, and a battalion from the 82nd Air­borne Division was sent to that site. 
The Reagan Administration has made it clear it does not intend to send the U.S. troops 
page 
4 The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1988 
ENGINEER'S WEEK 1900 MARCH 21-25 1988 

ND Senate votes for Crime Stoppers 
By GREG LUCAS Copy Editor 
The Student Senate voted 
Monday night to join Crime 
Stoppers, a national network of 
programs that offers monetary 
rewards to people who give in­
formation leading to an arrest. 
According to Student Senator 
Brian Holst, a "crime of the 
week" will be publicized and 
students will be able to call the 
number for Crime Stoppers in 
South Bend with information 
relating to the crime. 
Holst, who introduced the 
proposal, said The Observer 
had given him tentative ap­
proval for publishing the 
"crime of the week." 
Lieutenant Sam Walsh, director of the South Bend Crime Stoppers program, told the senate that over 1000 con­victions have been made and $2 million of narcotics have been removed from the streets in the last five years as a result of information obtained from the program. 
Walsh presented an informa­tional film on Crime Stoppers which reported that the pro­

Israeli-Arab problems continue on West Bank 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM ~Israeli troopers on Monday shot a Pal­estinian teen-ager dead, and a PLO leaflet exhorted Arabs to "shower soldiers and herds of cowardly settlers" with stones, firebombs and iron bars. 
Soldiers were expanding their search for weapons caches in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip the day after an Arab shot and killed a soldier in Bethlehem. 
At least 106 Palestinians and the Israeli soldier have been killed since riots began in the occupied lands Dec. 8, accor­ding to U.N. figures. 
Israeli police arrested a prominent Arab-American at­torney Monday and assailants attacked the homes of two moderate Palestinians -a newspaper editor and a mem­ber of Jordan's parliament. 
The army announced a new military law permitting any se­curity prisoner to be held up to six months with less judicial review than before. It said the law eliminated the require­ment that a military judge review a case within 96 hours. 
Israeli officials said the mea­sure would apply for six months and would ease an overload on the military court system, which has handled nearly 3,000 cases since December. Arab lawyers said they feared detention without trial could become more com­mon. 
Arabs mounted a general strike Monday in the West Bank and Gaza to mark the 20th anniversary of a 1968 bat­tle resulting from an Israeli raid on Palestinian guerrillas inside Jordan. 
Graffiti scrawled on walls overnight urged Arabs to at­tack Israeli troops and civilians in memory of the bat­tle at Karameh, Jordan. 

gram has averaged a 98 per­cent conviction ratio nation­wide for publicized crimes. 
Walsh said he does not know of any other university that employs the Crime Stoppers program. He added, however, that a number of high schools have successfully adopted the program. 
Walsh said Crime Stoppers is designed to allay fear of retaliation because an infor­mant is given a code number and remains entirely anonymous. 
The potential for a cash reward eliminates the problem of apathy, Walsh said, adding that many informants do not even request a reward. 
"The Crime Stoppers pro­gram, as far as recovery and convictions, is more important than education, although that is also very important," Walsh said. 
Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of security, also attending the meeting, said that simply publishing Security Beat in The Observer has not generated as many "tips" as was originally hoped for. 
Student Body President Pat Cooke and several other senate members questioned the morality of offering a cash reward for something that falls under civic duty. "There is something special about the morality here," Cooke said. 
Victor Krebs, chairman for the Committee for GraduateVndergraduate Re­lations, said, "This community would be more sensitive than others to education and aware­ness.'' 
In addition to support from Security and the media, a stu­dent board will have to be es­tablished to determine the amount of a reward based on the value of the information given, Holst said. 
The details of the Crime Stop­pers program at Notre Dame will be worked out by Holst, Johnson and Walsh. 
In other business, the senate approved the adoption of a revised student government constitution. 
The revisions are mainly "cosmetic," according to Holst, who introduced the revised edition. 

After some debate, the sen­ate voted to allow the positions of student body treasurer and judicial coordinator to remain in a voting capacity on the sen­ate. 
TO EARN $25,200 FOR COLLEGE, JUST PUT YOUR MIND ON ACTIVE DUTY. 
Today's Army is one of the bes: phces round to prepare your mind for college. Thcrt' '·high-technology training. M\!nt;.\ '"' :3rk.outs m clectro•lics. 
co1n IT' Lt nications,mechan ics. 
You'll do some serious matu: :nr. t>.)' meeting the challenges of living away from home. learning from new p.!ople 
and demanding more from yourself. 
And while you learn, you'll earn. Like $25.2(XJ for college with a four-year enlistmenl. Or $2 1 .200 for just three 
years. Ask about the G.l. Bill Plus the 
Army College Fund. Your local Army Recruiter can tell you if you qualify. Call: 
SGT Larry Holloway 
234-4187 
ARMY BE ALL YOU CAN BE 




Vincent Phelan 
University of Notre Dame • First Team Football • English Major • 
3.38 GPA • 
Senior • Hometown: Racine, WI • 
Congratulations to the GTE Academic All-Americans~ 
They are the leaders of the team. But what makes them even more special is their outstanding academic records. They are the GTE Academic All-Americans, selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) for being high achievers-in the game as well as the classroom. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 35-year-old program and congratulates these student-athletes on their Academic All-American achievements. 

GTEAcADEMIC ALL-AMERICA®TEAM 11%\


(Cji=l 
SELECTED BY CoSIDA ~ 
'"Academic All-America is a registered service mark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 
WEEKLONG EVENTS Trivia Contest Solutions Due March 24, 5:00PM Engineering Student Center $20 Prize Engineering Paper Contest Papers Due March 25 in JEC Mailbox at 5:00PM Problem statement available in Student 
• Center $50 Prize 

TURBULENT TUESDAY Egg Drop Contest 2:30PM Engineering Student Center $25 & $15 Prizes Pie Eating Contest 3:00PM Outside Cushing (inside lobby if bad weather) $25 Chi-Chi's Gift Certificate Dating Game 7:00PM Student Center Trivia Contest 
WIRED WEDNESDAY Engineers' Lunch 11 :00 AM -1 : 15 PM North & South Dining Halls University Food Services Crossword Puzzle Race 3:00PM Engineering Student Center 
Dinner for two at Macri's first one flnisr.ed Pinewood Derby 
6:30PM Engineering Student Center Two $25 Prizes (speed & design) Pizza Party 
7:00PM . 
Engineering Student Center Dating Game 7:00PM Engineering Student Center Trivia Contest 

THEORETICAL THURSDAY Calculator Toss 2:30PM Cushing Quad 
HP 15C to Farthest Th 
Dating Game 7:00PM Engineering Student Center Trivia Contest 

FLUID FRIDAY Engineering ·Arts & 

Day Selected Classes Held Outside Cushing Quad Ice Cream Social 2:00PM Engineering Student Center Faculty/Senior Reception 4:30 -6:30 PM University Club 21 ID Required 


Tuesday, March 22, 1988 
The Observer page 5 

Candidates look for endorsements 
Associated Press the South. Sen. Paul Simon, who won in his home state last Democrats Albert Gore Jr. week, was making a minimal 
and Richard Gephardt cam­effort in Michigan but intended paigned in the glow of popular to run ads in Wisconsin. non-candidates Monday -Gore Connecticut holds its pri­with Mario Cuomo and Gep­mary one week earlier, March hardt with Lee Iacocca -but 29, and Dukakis was consid­came away without endorse­ered the leader, although Gore ments. Republican George would like to demonstrate 
Bush touted his endorsement some strength in the Massa­by New Jersey Gov. Thomas chusetts governor's backyard. Kean. Jackson campaigned in 
Officials in Puerto Rico con­Colorado, where caucuses are tinued to tally the results of April 4, and in Michigan on Sunday's primaries, in which Monday.Bush rolled up another victory Republican Dole, also over Bob Dole and Jesse Jack­looking to Wisconsin, talked son and Michael Dukakis with farmers in the northwest added to their Democratic to­part of the state and renewed tals. his call for Bush to debate him. 
While Bush attended a New Jersey rally with Kean, Repub-Earlier, in Green Bay, Dole lican rival Dole said in Wiscon-accused the Reagan adminis­sin that that was the state tration of not doing a good job where he was trying to "get of making its case for aid to the back in the race." Contras, who are battling 
Democratic candidates were Nicaragua's Sandinista focusing on Michigan, where regime. Saturday's caucuses are the Kean's endorsement came as next big event after weekend Bush added to a seemingly in­contests in Kansas, Texas and surmountable lead in Puerto Rico that helped delegates. Dukakis and Jackson. Bush picked up the 14 
Gephardt and Gore won kind delegates at stake in Puerto words but no endorsement in Rico's primary Sunday, boost­meetings with Chrysler Corp. ing his total to 788 -nearly 70 Stockl"ng up The Observer I Michael Moran 
Chairman Iacocca and New percent of the 1,139 he needs to York Gov. Cuomo. win at the national convention 
Freshman Bridget Deegan selects from a variety of machine which was recently placed in the lobby of
Wisconsin's primary 10 days in New Orleans this summer. 
panty hose sizes and styles as she becomes one of the South Dining Hall.
later was shaping up as a fur-Dole had 178. Former televi­
the first customers of the new "Stocking Box" vending 
ther Democratic battleground, sion evangelist Pat Robertson two weeks before the big New had 17. 
···················~~~-~~-~-;~~~-~-~·················-~~ Observer classifieds will be accepted from
York primary April 19. The 51 Democratic delegates Gore began running televi-from Puerto Rico all ran as un­
Today is Laura S."s birthday. Call her up 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way ' 
sion ads in Wisconsin in hopes committed, and the candidates 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
LaFortune 
on pool tables ton~ghl. •

of making it the state where he promised major efforts to woo 
11 
demonstrates appeal outside them in coming weeks. 
:!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!,;e 
I I 
§ § 
= = 
~ HAMMES i 



1 NDTJ:~EDAM£ Support The Dream 1 
I BOOICSIORE w·th 3M ,3NI l I
= I ...7,.::::..":::. =
_Q50)

5 !
= = 
~ !
§: §E 
s= Scotch" 01\p<fn\f\U\OI~ ===­
DO.. Irl! v•lluw 
i ~--------, a 
~ Post-it· cese9 1 I 
= ~~ a
E Self-Slick Removable Noles i 
= = 
= = 
~ i 
§ i 
~ ;
§ i §= i= 
= = § •i = = =
I ScotchR Memo Cube™ Post-it™ I 
§ ~
1 MagiC Bright color pads will I ~ stick to almost anything Note Pad § 
I Tape I 
= il
i I 
= =
= =
I 2 I 1 .00 $2.99 3 I 1.00 i I5 ................................................._,_..........................................................,_._,......................................J = 
---------~ 
page 6 The Observer 
Applications 
are available for all 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT CABINET POSITIONS:* 
Student Life: 
Executive Coordinator Student Services Com. Campus Improvements Athletic Commissioner 
Food & Health Com. Housing & Security Com. 
judicial & Legal Liaison Hall Pres./Hall Council Liaison 
Political, Social, & Cultural Concerns: 
Executive Coordinator Political Concerns Com. Social Concerns Com. Cultural Events Com. Minority Concerns Com. Women's Concerns Com. Liturgical Commissioner 
Academics: 
Executive Coordinator Academic Commissioner 
Student Faculty Relations Student Faculty Senate Rep. 
Public Relations 
Executive Coordinator Alumni Relations Commissioner NDISMC Liaison ND/ South Bend Liaison Foreign Relations Coordinator 
Special Projects: 
Executive Coordinator Special Projects Commissioner Freshmen Orientation Com. (position open in spring) 
Transfer Orientation Com. (position open in spring) Board of Trustees 
Tuesday, March 22, 1988 



• 
Applications are available in the Student Government offices. 

• 
Applications are due Thursday, March 24th, by 5 p.m. 

• 
Interviews will be held March 26th-27th, in the Student Government offices. You will be contacted regarding the time of your interview. 

• 
All students welcome. 


* This list is more comprehensive than in the previous ad. All positions are subject to change. We sincerely apologize for any confusion that resulted from the first list. 
--Tom Doyle & Mike Paese 
Tuesday, March 22, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Tension, violence 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland -IRA gunmen killed a police of­ficer Monday at a checkpoint in Londonderry, the lOth victim in two weeks of heightening tension and sectarian violence. 
Britain announced a massive manhunt in West Belfast's Roman Catholic ghettos for the killers of two British soldiers caught in an IRA funeral procession. 
Northern Ireland Secretary Tom King said in London that the Royal Ulster Constabulary has launched an immediate review of its new policy of keeping a low profile at Irish Republican Army funerals. The policy was aimed at avoid­ing clashes between police and supporters of the outlawed IRA. 
The police officer who was killed Monday, Clive Graham, 25, was shot in the head in a jeep while at a checkpoint in the Roman Catholic Creggan district of Londonderry, Nor­thern Ireland's second-largest city. He died later in the hospi­tal. 


intensify 
The IRA claimed responsibil­ity for Graham's killing in a clandestine message to Belfast media. 
He was the lOth person to die since March 6, when British commandos shot dead three IRA guerrillas who allegedly were plotting a car bombing in Gibraltar. 
The funeral policy was started Wednesday at services for the guerrillas killed in Gibraltar. A Protestant gun­man opened fire and hurled grenades at the Catholic Mil­ltown cemetery, killing three people and wounding 68. 
King's announcement of a review of the policy stopped well short of demands by leaders of Northern Ireland 
•

1n Northern Ireland 
Protestant parties to return to a heavy presence at IRA funerals. 
As expectations grew of an imminent wave of arrests in West Belfast, there was also speculation that dozens of IRA supporters who were filmed surrounding and beating the soldiers' unmarked car with iron bars and dragging them out had gone into hiding. 
"A massive murder investi­gation is under way in which all possible resources are in­volved to identify all those re­sponsible,'' King said of the manhunt in West Belfast. 
Three people were arrested Saturday and police sources said Monday that up to 30 
Howto start yourlaw career 6eforeyou start law sChool. 
Start with the· Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la'N firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
c 

!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
DONT COMPETE WITH
South Bend, IN 46637 
A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
Phone 219/272-4135 
LSA T CLASS FOR JUNE EXAM STARTS 3/24. 
~TELEPHONE RESEARCH fNTERVIEWERS 
Ask a few easy questions for our market research surveys and make $5 6 per hour. There's no selling involved and you don't need previous experience. You must be available 4 hours Thursday/Friday during business hours. If you are enthusiastic, organized, have a clear and pleasant speaking voice and enjoy talking on the phone, then this may be an ideal part-time job requiring 8-10 hours a week. Our com­pany, a subsidiary of Control Data, is a national research firm recruiting in your area. 
Bonus pay opportunities for English/Spanish Bilinguals. 
For more information, call1-800-638-7091 and ask for Angela 
Peters. Calls accepted from 10am to 9pm ONLY. Equal Oppor­
tunity Employer M/F/H/V. 
J 

others were being sought after hours of scrutiny of film taken by an army helicopter which hovered over the scene and by TV networks. Gruesome scenes of the attack also were shown on television. 
Corporals Derek Wood and David Howes, in plainclothes, were surrounded when they drove up to the cortege, dragged from their car, stripped, beaten and shot dead. 
King denied charges by Nor­thern Ireland Protestant politicians that police and troops failed to come to the sol­diers' aid because of political orders to stay away from IRA funerals. 
his classmates soon, to get a head start on planning class ac­tivities for next year. 
Timons said his ticket was disappointed but intends to stay involved in class leader­ship. "We were a little bit dis­appointed with the turnout in voting," he said. "We are all going to stay involved. We want to serve our school in some capacity." 
Assaults 
continued from page 1 
Townhouses at 3:05 a.m. on 
March 17 and entered the 
bedroom of a graduate student, 
Security reported. 
The student told Security the suspect put his hand over her mouth and told her not to say anything. 
The student then screamed and the suspect fled the room, Security said. 
The roommate of the as­saulted student then entered the student's bedroom and the two barricaded the door and yelled out the window for help, Security said. 
Notre Dame Security was called by neighbors who heard the women's screams, the report said. 
The student was not injured in the assault, according to Se­curity. 
The suspect is described as a five-foot-nine male wearing a flannel shirt and dark jacket. 
Assistant Director of Secure ity Phil Johnson would not com­ment on the status of the inves­tigation of the two assaults. 
Notre Dame Security is in­vestigating both assaults, Johnson said. 
Anyone with information about the two assaults is asked to contact Notre Dame Secur­it . 

Cocaine 
continued from page 1 
quantity of cocaine, the Tribune reported. The officer then set up a meeting with the pair. 
Notre Dame's student hand­book duLac states that the sale of "marijuana or any danger­ous drug is considered a serious violation which shall result in suspension or dismissal." 
Richard Conklin, director of public relations and informa­tion at Notre Dame, said admi­nistrators would not say what, if any, disciplinary measures have been taken against the pair. 
Administrators in the Office of Student Affairs, he said, have a policy of not comment­ing on individual cases involv­ing students. 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
Now Renting for Summer Special Low Summer Rates Available 
Mid May through Aug. 13 
Utilities Furnished Central air Indoor Pool & Recreation Facilities 
Furnished 
CALL 272-1441 
._________________________________r ____,____• 
FOREIGN GRADUATE STUDENTS OPPORTUNITIES TO EARN ESTRA INCOME 
American Companies need your skills and know-how in dealing with foreign marketing strategies, import/export regulations, etc. 
Our clients have full and part-time consulting positions for University graduates with foreign backgrounds who are willing to help encourage American trade and investment efforts back home. 
If interested in helping Af!1erica build new trade bridges, send your updated resume to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Executive Search Division P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 
Win 
continued from page 1 
we'd like to wish. our con­gratulations to Matt and wish him luck next year," Fitzgerald said, adding, "We'd like to thank all the people who 
devoted  many  hours  to  our  
campaign."  
Freshman  Rob  Pasin  

defeated Frank Timons in the 
run-off for sophomore class of­fice. Pasin received 531 votes for 53.1 percent while Timons tallied 469 votes for 46.9 per­cent. 
"We knew it was going to be close," Pasin said. "We knew if we won it would not be by a huge margin. We're just really happy we won." 
Pasin said he "can't wait to get to work." He said he plans to distribute a questionnaire to 








Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, March 22, 1988 
Many facets to NASA program 
The state of the American space pro­gram is a popular topic for discussion. But, lacking an appreciation of the complexity of the situation, snap judge­ments can be made that are not borne out by the facts. I'd like to offer several reflections on the relevant issues based on my own experience with NASA, the Air Force, and the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization (Star Wars). 
Richard Beatty 
guest column 
First, the American space effort is not a single program. While NASA is the most visible part, the Air Force, the Navy and Star Wars are also very much involved in space-related activi­ties. NASA's charter is the civilian, sci­entific and commercial mission in space, along with the provision of launch services to the other agencies. NASA does not even have the majority of the government's space funding; that goes to the military sector. Presi­dent Reagan's enormous funding of Star Wars has further reduced NASA's share of the U.S. space budget. 
Second, Star Wars is not a benefit to the U.S. space program. It has con­sumed more than funding; it has also lured away some of the best scientists and engineers from NASA and its con­tractors to work at the inevitably higher-paying positions to be found in a defense-related industry. When the impracticality of Star Wars is finally realized and the program is cancelled, it may be difficult for NASA to reac­quire a talent pool now accustomed to the greener salaries offered by the Pentagon. 
But Star Wars has done even more to set back America's space program. In 1985 it became apparent that Star Wars' satellites, if deployed, would re­quire dozens, if not hundreds, of space shuttle missions to carry them to orbit. The shuttle would need to be launched many more times per year than had been done in order to accommodate this, thus preliminary goals were set for 12 shuttle launches within 1986, in­creasing to 18 in 1987. The pressure to meet this demanding schedule was so great on a cold January morning in Florida that some unwise decisions were made--not by NASA, but by the management of a rocket engine sup­plier. We all know the tragic conse­quences of this. 
Doonesbury 
Third, the shuttle accident has not caused a reassignment of engineering responsibility away from NASA to the industry. NASA has always relied on the private sector for the engineering development and production of its major flight projects. NASA is a decentralized management and re­search operation; it is not in the spacecraft fabrication business. The space shuttle, for example, is as­sembled by the Rockwell International Corporation from parts designed and manufactured by them as well as by hundreds of other suppliers--10 percent of which must be small or minority­owned businesses. NASA will continue this prudent policy, but it will likely review in greater depth the critical engineering decisions made in indus­try. This is one lesson learned (rather the hard way) from the shuttle tragedy. 
Fourth, while the shuttle accident was clearly a setback to the space pro­gram, NASA is not without its other superb accomplishments. Ironically, the shuttle accident came at the end of a three-day fly-by of the planet Uranus by NASA's Voyager 2 spacecraft, oper­ating on schedule and on course more than eight years after its launch. This almost incredible triumph was soon for­gotten by American journalists: I was space station as a major national priority, but it is not clear why it is needed. It was once thought that com­mercial manufacturing, known as "materials processing in space," would require such a space station, but later analysis has shown that these opera­tions require smaller space platforms and are thus not likely to be hosted aboard the space station. The space sta­tion is well-suited to a number of tech­nological and scientific projects, but these are demonstrably not the priorities of the current administration. (Again, it is often forgotten that the 
U.S. has already flown a scientifically­oriented space station; it was called Skylab, and it was eventually aban­doned for lack of interest.) 
My sixth and final comment regards comparisons of the U.S. and Soviet space programs. The frequently in­voked argument that "they have a space station; therefore, so should we" is both elliptical and unsound. The Soviets have food shortages, troops in Afghanistan, and the Gulag; clearly we should not feel compelled to follow their lead in these instances. However, we can learn much from the example set by the Soviet space station . 
This spirit of competition with the Soviets could more profitably be trans­formed into one of cooperation: studies are underway for a joint U.S.-Soviet mission to land on Mars, perform sur­face explorations and return rock samples to Earth. This could be launched as early as January 1999. Each of our countries has complemen­tary abilities that together can make the mission a success. Such a massive mutual undertaking would do much to build understanding between the super­powers; together we would not only ex­pand our knowledge of the universe, but also improve the chances for world peace. Such an accomplishment is well worth pursuing. 
Continued progress in space is worthy of our continued support. Scien­tific and technological advancements do not capture the public fancy as much as Star Wars lasers and astronauts floating in zero-gravity, but in the end they are infinitely more beneficial to humankind. The final frontier is be­ckoning; let us go forth, together, in peace. 
Richard Beatty is a graduate student in philosophy, on leave from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (NASA's interplanetary exploration center) as the remarkable Voyager 



P.O. Box Q 
data arrived and saw the press corps scramble out the door when they heard of a major event in Florida. Advance­ment in science doesn't sell as much advertising on the evening news as human tragedy. 
This brings us to a fifth misconcep­tion: There is quite a distinction to be made between NASA's scientific space endeavors and the flashier, but in many ways less substantive, aspects of its manned space program. The Voyager project has been an astounding success for over 10 years now, returning valu­able data from close encounters with Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. Today, that same Voyager 2 spacecraft is on a trajectory that will take it past the planet Neptune next year. It is often forgotten that NASA's planetary sci­ence program successfully landed two spacecraft on the surface of Mars in 1976. 
Yet, astronauts, shuttles and space stations attract more attention; they also require more money, even though their benefits are less than obvious. The president has identified the NASA 

Women deserve part of recognition 
Dear Editor: 
The March 4 issue of The Observer contained a letter which touched my heart and further led me to write a response. I commend Bill Sammon on his attempt to uphold Ronald Reagan as one whose efforts succeeded in bringing fame and recognition to Notre Dame. However, I find his point largely overshadowed by his perspective con­cerning the role of women at Notre Dame. Attitudes as such are detrimen­tal to the very tradition of which he speaks and are in no way exemplary of the Christian values and attitudes which we purport to be characteristic of this school. He accused Miss Seiger of excluding someone whom he feels ought not to be overlooked when ex­amining the history and tradition be­hind Notre Dame, yet he proceeded to inflict upon the women of Notre Dame that injustice which he condemns. Yes, 

Garry Trudeau 
THe OUK£ OF PUNTS·ON-lHAM£;5 

THeN 5TARTTH& tVEil.YONE IN THIS 
YOUKNOIJJ
~ RCPR!MANPS THe GARP&NCR. 

PRUNING/ IT'S HOUS£HOWPUU-5 EVCRYON&, 
'MORNING, Y&~
/A/HAT I

NOT &VBN TH!<l£ HIS 0/JJN lii&/GfrT, GUV'NOR~ 
[A[)SI 
SIR.
UH... HOM/3, 
M&AN.'

O'aOC.K,MAN.t Bill~ 00 YOU
GUV'NoR.. I 
I I \

I UNI?CRSTANO~ \
RN15HW 7H&Sl3W 8/3[). 
~ 
it was men who established and nourished the tradition of Notre Dame through their diligence in the class­room, as well as their finesse and strength on the football field, but must Sammon make women feel as if we do not deserve to take part in this tradi­tion? He states that "Notre Dame men were magnanimous enough to allow wo­men into the tradition." We can do with­out that sort of magnanimity. 
Let us not forget that it is Mary the Virgin Mother who rests upon the Golden Dome, and that there are count­less alumni whose memories of Notre Dame are accompanied by that image. We, the men and women of Notre Dame, should promote the tradition of our school by ensuring that members of both sexes, minorities included, are always made to feel welcome at the University. 
Kris Thompson Lewis Hall March 7, 1988 



Quote of the Day 

"Absence is for friendship what the wind is for fire: it extinguishes the small and reinforces the strong." 
French proverb 

Editorial Board Operations Board




Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ... . .. .. .. ... .. . .. .. .. .. . . .Chris Murphy Business Manager... . ............ John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .............................. Chris Donnelly Advenising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor . ....................................... Regis Coccia Advenising Manager . . . . ....... Linda Goldschmidt News Editor . ..................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ............. ...... Bernadette Shilts 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor..... .. ..... Man Slaughter Systems Manager... Mark Ridgeway Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Spons Editor ........ ............................ Marty Strasen Controller ........................................ Todd Hardiman the admimstrat1on of either institution. The News is repor1ed as accurately and objectively as 
Accent Editor ......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Ans Manager ....................... Marga Bruns possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the op1nion of the majority of the Editorial Board Saint Mary's Editor ................. Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor.. . ......... Michael Moran 1s available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. 1s encouraged. 


Accent
Tuesday, March 22, 1988 page 9 

Housing challenges transfer students 
E
KATHY LENNEY men to Notre Dame. The in­liked to have known that many accent writer creasing numbers of women off-campus students live at admitted will limit the spots Campus View and Notre Dame very year transfer students, available to transfer students. apartments. The neighbor­just like freshmen, must Sophomore Pat Fallon experi­hood he lived in had very few adjust to the Notre Dame col­enced several difficulties in his students. This made it dificult lege life. Transfer students, transition from the University of for him to adjust to Notre with the additional problem of Massachusetts to Notre Dame. Dame. finding a place to live off­He felt that his lack of "I didn't have a home last campus, find the adjustment to familiarity with the area sur­semester, I had a room to Notre Dame even more difficult rounding Notre Dame caused sleep in. I wanted to fit in, but without the support of a dorm him to make a poor choice of it was hard because I didn't or student neighbors. This un­housing. Last semester Fallon know anyone. I wanted to be a fortunately can set them apart rented a room in a house on member of the Notre Dame from the Notre Dame commu­Washington Street, community. This was very hard 
nity. Leaving behind friends, family, and a different college community, transfer students are challenged to create an identity for themselves at Notre Dame, oftentimes at the disad­vantage of living off-campus, away from the rest of the stu­dent body. 
When accepted to Notre Dame, transfer students receive off-campus housing informa­tion and can be placed on an on-campus waiting list. Next year, the addition of two new girl's dorms, Knott and Siegfried, will not guarantee any more on-campus housing for female transfer students. Similarly, last year, when Howard changed from a male to a female dorm, no addi­tional housing was available for female transfer students. This is primarily because of an in­crease in the enrollment of wo­
aproximately two miles from campus. 
"The packet I was given had no scale of miles, so I didn't know how far away I would be living." said Fallon. 
Last semester Fallon spent a dollar a day on bus fare. The money didn't bother him as much as the extensive time he spent traveling. 
"It took me almost an hour every day to get home. I had to arrive early at the bus because if I missed It (the 9:30 p.m.) I would have had no way home," he said. 
This meant that Fallon could not utilize the library at night and on Sundays the buses didn't run. 
Fallon commented that more direction should be given for these students as they come in and must find housing. For instance, Fallon would have when I didn't live in a college atmosphere," said Fallon. 
This semester Fallon lives in the ROTC Building. Next year, Fallon hopes he will be able to live on campus, but he won't know if he can until July. Pres­ently, he is on a waiting list for all transfer students wanting to live in dorms. He doesn't believe he will have experi­enced true college life until he lives in a dorm. 
"Dorm camraderie is big at Notre Dame. I would like to have the opportunity toi partici­pate in interhall football and go to SYR's in my own dorm. Dorm life here is like fraternity and I would like to be a part of it," said Fallon. 
The additional female housing has made one transfer student's dream to live on­campus a realitiy. Living at home this year, Sophomore 
"This summer I am going to have a biology internship. 1 could never have done that at 
I.U. Too many people would have been competing for that position," said Guiltinan. 
The other aspect of Notre Dame that Guiltnan liked is the absence of fraternities and sororities. 
"I was not opposed to Greek life before I experienced it at 
I.U. But when I was exposed to it I realized how much I didn't like it. It was like being back in high school where you had to be in the 'in' crowd," said Guil­tinan. 
She is much happier at Notre Dame and said, "I like the people here better. The stu­dents are more active. They do more than just study and party," said Guiltinan. 


roses 
doomed. The writers must 
make an attempt to refine the 
purpose of the show. Is it a 
comedy or a soap opera? 
If they decide to proceed un­der the classification "situation comedy," they need a lot more humor. Also, the children must be involved more in the plot­lines instead of simply reacting to their parents' problems. 
The best advice for viewers: tune into "The Thorns"' compe­tition,"Dallas." It's so ridiculous, it's funny. As for "The Thorns," 
need to blossom. 
Courtuy of ABC 

'The Thorns': no bed of 
0 
ne criticism that people have of shows like "Dallas" and "Dynasty" is that they are so ridiculous and far-fetched they're funny. The famed "Dynasty" Moldavian massacre 
Joe Bucolo 
To be continued 
must have featured blind ter­rorists since, despite the fact that a countless number of rounds were fired, only two people died. "Falcon Crest's" Maggie went through a risky brain operation without a hair on her head beln~ touched. 
ABC's new comedy "The Thorns" attempts to capture the comic spirit of these prime time soaps; however, there are no roses at the top of this prickly mess. 
ABC presents "The Thorns" at 9:30 p.m. on Friday nights. Sloan Thorn (Tony Roberts) is a wealthy, powerful businessman while his wife Ginger (Kelly Bis­hop) is a pitiful, nouveau-riche vixen. 
There are three Thorn children: Chad (Adam Breck), Joey (Lisa Reiffel) and Edmund (Jesse Tendler). In addition, there are the maid, Toinette (Mary Louise Wilson); a young nanny named Crickett (Lorie Petty); and Sloan's mother, Rose (Marilyn Cooper). 
From the nature of the char­acters, their outlandish names, and the rich family set-up, "The 


Thorns" has real potential; however, the show never reaches it. The plots are often cliche, containing typical sit­com plots. The theme of the Thorn's idleness is funny, but extremely overused. 
They have an intercom in every room, a nanny for no apparent reason, and the desire to get ahead without doing any work. Actually, a small number of these plots would be entertaining but It seems that the "gardeners" behind the show are too worried about getting dirt un­der their nails to initiate some fruitful, juicy humor. 
The show does have its mo­ments. One episode features Toinette returning from an eye appointmemt with dilated pupils. Throughout the episode she runs into walls, trips over furniture, and spills coffee she's serving. 
Joanna Guiltinan is anxious to live at Notre Dame. 
"I have received a housing contract so I'm pretty sure I have guaranteed housing next year," said Guiltinan. 
Guiltinan transferred from 
Indiana University and said that 
the people she met during her 
first semester at Notre Dame 
helped her make an easy 
transition. 
"The people here went out of their way to make me feel wel­come," said Guiltinan. 
Guiltinan believes the small 
size of Notre Dame ensures 
more opportunities for stu­
dents to get involved. She feels 
that it was much harder at I.U. 
to join extracurricular activities 
because there were too many 
people trying to join the limited 
number of clubs and organiza­
tions. 
Guest appearances by Maureen Stapleton as Peggy, the second richest woman in the world who masquerades as a maid and helps Toinette, are fresh and enjoyable. Stapleton deserves a regular role since her character is the only one portrayed in a realistic manner. 
The portrayals of Sloan and Ginger are somewhat revolting. They are often shown sneaking out of the house to meet their lovers. This is not the type of scenario viewers of "The Thorns" expect, especially
·---­

since many of them are viewers of "Mr. Belvedere," a family­oriented show. 
ABC's Friday night lineup is probably the best of the three networks. "Perfect Strangers" is witty and popular. The con­stantly improving "Full House" follows, and "Mr. Belvedere" is in the middle of an outstanding season and enjoying its highest ratings ever. It is too bad that this comedy lineup doesn't finish with a clever, humorous show. 
"The Thorns" is by no means 

-
Tuesday, March 22, 1988

page 10 The Observer 

Rick Calloway, former Big 10 Freshman of the Year and a member of the 1987 National Cham­pionship team, reportedly will not return to In-

Calloway plans to leave Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana forward Rick Calloway has decided to leave the Bloomington school and may transfer to another university for his remaining year of eligibility, an Indianapolis tele­vision station reported Monday night. 
The 6-foot-6 junior forward from Cincinnati, who lost his regular starting position for the defending national champions this year after an outstanding NCAA tournament last season, informed Coach Bob Knight he was leaving Monday morning, WISH-TV reported. 
The station cited sources who it claimed confirmed the story with Calloway himself. The player could not be reached for comment. 
The school had no comment on the report, said Eric Ruden, an assistant sports information director. 
Calloway had started four of Hoosiers' last seven games but did not play in the season­ending 72-69 loss to Richmond in Friday's first round of the NCAA East Regional tourna­ment. He played in 26 of 29 games, starting 19, and averaged 11.8 points, 4.3 rebounds and 29 minutes per game. 
The Big Ten Freshman of the Year in 1985-86, Calloway would be forced under NCAA rules to sit out a year before using his remaining year of eligibility at another school. 
Calloway, playing last year in his hometown, had a season­high 21 points in the Hoosier's Midwest Regional semifinal win over Duke. He went on to score the winning tip-in in the 77-76 regional final victory over Louisisana State. He earlier had had a career-high 13 rebounds in the second-round win over Auburn. 
He scored 12 points, just un­der his season average, in the Final Four victory over UNLV, but broke his right wrist and did not score in the champion­ship game against Syracuse. 


Sports Briefs 
A Sports Writers Meeting will be held Thursday night at 10 in The Observer offices in LaFortune. Spring assignments will be discussed, and new writers are wel­come. Those unable to attend should contact Marty Strasen at 239-5303 or 283-1489. -The Observer 
The ND women's fencing team eliminated Yale 9-3 and Farleigh Dickinson 9-1 in NCAA Championship action Monday at Princeton. The Irish will enter tomor­row's final day of action as one of the tournament's top two seeds. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will practice this week at 7 p.m. each night at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Anyone with questions should call Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Observer 
Interhall baseball is looking for people interested in umpiring this spring. Umpires will work from behind the pitcher's mound and will earn $7 per game. Contact Non-Varsity Athletics for more information. -The Obser­ver 
The Women's Rugby Club will not hold any practice today. Anyone with questions should call Lauren at 283-3560. -The Observer 
AnTostalmudvolleyballsignupswillbe6:30-8:30 
p.m. tomorrow in 307 LaFortune. Each team must have seven players including a minimum of two women. Only one women's varsity or men's club player can participate on each team. The tournament has a 128-team limit, and a $7 entry fee is required of each team. Anyone with ques­tions should call Michelle Gund at 284-5184. -The Observer 
Men's Open Soccer tournament rosters will be accepted at the NVA office by Thursday at 5 p.m. A cap­tains' meeting will be held on Friday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium. Tournament play begins this weekend. Any questions should be directed to NVA at 239­6100. -The Observer 
Chinese Tai Ji exercise classes will begin on Thursday. The NVA-sponsored classes will meet for an hour on Tuesdays and Thurdays at 7 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Boxing Room for the next four weeks. Students may register in advance at NVA by paying a $4 registration fee. For more information, call instructor Hongyi Sun at 239-5252 or the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Women's soccerpracticebeginstomorrow, weather permitting, for anyone interested in playing in the spring tournament. Players should meet at 4 p.m. at Stepan Field. Any questions should be directed to Susan at x4541. -The Observer 
Thea...-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, .ooepts classified ectv.tlsing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a...-Saint ~office, located on the third floor of Hauo-Collge CenteJ, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfledsls 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prepUS, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five chaqcters per day. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, physician and psychologist, deeply wishes to adopt newborn. Welcoming warm fam­Ily, love, opportunities! Expenses paid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect 212-724-7942. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
................................................................ 
' LOST/FOUND I 
LOST! LOST!! LOST II I LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAD­SET ON WEDNESDAY, :v.1188. WHERE? IN THE VARSITY WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASEI IF YOU PICKED IT UP, CALL ME TO RETURN IT. IT WOULD BE GREATLY APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY FRIEND. 
THANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1362 
Lost:Mens class ring. On Fri. Mar.3 in the huddle or on the way to Keenan. It has my name in it, so if you find it PLEASE give me a call. The REWARD could provide for an exciting spring break.£1239 
HELP!!! LOST WATCH A GRUEN WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. MAYBE LOST IN BRIGETS. VERY HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF­FERED. IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT CALL 277-3226 
FOUND: WATCH IN ENGINEERING AUD. ON THURS. MARCH 3. CALL3702 
FOUND:Dorm key £352. Found in front of Moreau Seminary on St. Joe's Lake. Call Jim Palmer at 239· 7735. 
LOST ONE PAIR OF SILVER PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN A BLUE HARD CASE. LOST AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME BETWEEN THE ACC AND THE MAIN CIRCLE. PLEASE CALL JOE AT 4642. 
LOST: TWO CALCULATORS ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26TH I THINK AT THE NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 1075. 
LOST/TAKEN!!! dark blue Allergan make· up bag from the lost and found box of 1st floor O'Shag. It was only missing for an hour, yet it was lilted. What good are my cosmetics going to do you?! The re­placement cost will be near $75. Call upon your sense of decency and please return the items to 1st floor O'Shag, the lost and found, or 112 Lyons! £2903. Thanks! 
LOST AQUA-BLUE-OFF-WHITE SCARF MADE IN SCOTLAND TAG LOST THURS 3·3·87 BETWEEN DOME, BOOKSTORE, AND HOWARD REWARD OFFERED PLEASE CALL 2548 OR RETURN TO 226 HOWARD THANK YOU LOST AQUA-BLUE-OFF-WHITE SCARF REWARD OFFERED 
FOR RENT 

RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd firs, fan, binds, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clsts, bsmt storage, lndry. 11.1 blk to Lk Shore Dr bus, 2 blk to el train, Wrigley. $650. Avail beg Apr 1. 312-8'71-3397 (NO '80) 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955'.!55­3684 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 
.......................................... 2 & 7 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT, SUMMER ~r NEXT FALL. 272-6306 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 ~. Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pianoplay lor shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year­book, woodworking, RN and typist. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Ad, Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 91417799406. 
WINNETKA, IL lam lkg for daytime stu­dent as summer girl. 312-446-3171 
eves. 

NANNIES NEEDED -SOUTH FLORIDA NannleB'Mothers Helpers, no fee, 1 year minimum commitment. 1-80Q.9­NANNY·1 Modern Day Nannies, Inc. 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142, Ext. 7316. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dam&SI.Mary's College 
P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. endad 
AAJAX 

NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­SEE FOR EASTER BREAK!!!!!!!! (OR ANY WHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY) PLEASE CALL CAROL at 271-0868. 
"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY GOAT IS?" 
Enjoy Coke 

Enjoy Coke 
Enjoy Coke 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Brother­Sister Camps seeking staff, all transpor­tation paid. Call collect: (215) 663-0366. See us at LaFortune Student Center on Thurs., Mar. 24 from 11 am ·4 pm. 
RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have your carpel professionally cleaned by The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Off­campus negotiable. We also do furniture. Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY 
Things We Won't Miss XIX: People With Gorgeous Tans 
THE REGATTA IS COMING!!! THE REGATTA IS COMINGIII SEE YOUR HALL PRESIDENT FOR DETAILS 
................................................. 
Enough of this Irish Stuff already ... Happy St. Joseph's Day I 
THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES It begins on April 5. 
Isn't it bad enough that we named this school alter them? Happy St. Joseph's Day! 
thank you st. jude for prayers answered­cj 
................................ 
BEWARE OF FALLING EGGS! 
.......... . .............................. HEADS UP FOR CALCULATORS! 
SHARPEN YOUR CROSSWORD PEN­CILS! 
GET READY TO PARTY! 
E ENGINEERS' WEEK IS ON ITS WAY!!! MARCH 21 -25 
THANKS JUDE ....................................... Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle near Kinsman of Jesus Christ, laithful inter­cessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present urgent petition, In return, I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glorias. Publication must be promised. St. Jude pray for us who invoke your aid. Amen. This Novena must be said lor 9 consecutive days. 
gil out duh way! 
.............................. . 
nan sauer for UMOC... Just when you 
thought it was safe 
to vote for a decent, upstanding 
American citizen... nan sauer for 
UMOC ... 

BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts BEAUX-ARTS beaux-arts 
RITES OF SPRING -A BEAUX-ARTS 
BALL Coming soon to an architecture 
building near you. 
................. 
T.C. and Dan (my two fav soccer players), So tell me, what IS a grand slam? The Girl Next Door 
Kelly Madden, No, no, no! You know that I am always right about these things, so why don't you just face facts. Score: Ric· helle 7 I Kelly 0. Love, Your Next Year Roomie SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE! Apr. 15·17. Used Books 50·90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off ND Ave. 1 0·5:30 7 days! week. 233-2342 
THE STONE HENGE ROMEOS 
ROCK CHIPS!!! 
COME OUT AND PARTY WITH THE 
STONE HENGE ROMEOS AT CHIPS 
:v.15 & :v.16. THE STONE HENGE 
ROMEOS AT CHIPS 
WITH AWESOME DRINK SPE­
CIALS!!!!! 
DID YOU HERE THE NEWS? THE STONEHENGE ROMEOS WILL ROCK CHIPS. DON'T MISS THEM! 
CAMPUS BANDS' 
CAMPUS BANDS! PA SYSTEM FOR SALE! DIRT CHEAP! CALL KEITH AT 3289! NOW! 
YO CRAZY PAT 
CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR 
GREAT 200 FLY TIME!! 
Stick, Ox, J, Bird, Mlck, Dave, Mom & 
Dad 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7days'Neek 233·2342 
Susie Des1gn can not keep secrets for long!!! Hey news flash about a certain fellow down in S. Padre who ... Slay tuned for details! 
KARA ENGLAND 
KARA ENGLAND 
KARA ENGLAND 
SEE, WE DIDN'T FORGET 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
(A LITTLE LATE) 


Tuesday, March 22, 1988 The Observer 
fiCfifi Tournament 
' 

Purdue 

Duke 
•

Irish w1n four on Texas trip 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Assistant Sports Editor 
A trip to Texas over Spring Break produced mixed results for the Notre Dame baseball team last weekend. 
While the pitching staff showed signs of improvement, the Irish failed to get consistent hitting from all but three players in the nine-game trip. The Irish won four of nine games in the trip and ran their record to 6-10. 
''We were really encour­aged," said first-year Irish co­ach Pat Murphy. "We can see that all our work is paying off, and we're headed in the right direction. 
"We were counting on our hitting, and all of a sudden our 
pitching came through,"  con­ 
tinued  Murphy.  "We  look  
pretty tough now.  

Murphy had no reason to complain with the play of Tim Hutson, Dan Peltier or Pat Pesavento. The three lef-

NAVY HIRING EXECUTIVE TRAIN·EES 
You can do a lot more with your degree than just get a joh. As a Navy officer. you can lead the adventure! 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
ALL majors considered 


Today's Navy is top-flight people working with the best in their ticld. It's also sophisticated technical and management training in executive, managerial. pmtc~sional. scientific and technical positions. 
You don't have to wait until you graduate! Navy Ofticcr representatives will he on campus conduct­mg an exclusive testing session. All interested stu­dents who arc within 3 years of graduating arc encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately 3V2 hours and scats arc limited. 
PLACE: CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES I:ONFERENC_E_RCXlM~~~~~~~~~~~­
256

Testing appointment may be obtained by cailing ....:...:....: 14:.._55
:._-:._ ___________ 
FLIGHT OFFICER: Sian at $21.200 ($35.000 alkr 4 years). 20120 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. Operate the electronics & computers in the Navy's newest aircraft. 
BUSINESS MANAGER: 
Stan at $21,200 ($35,(Xl0 after 4 years). Finance. personnel. logistics. Ages 19-2X' 
ENGINEER: 

Stan at $23,5(X) ($45.<XKl after 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project rmmagemenl. Engineering/Science/ Technical major. Ages 19-2X. 
SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS: 
NAVAL AVIATION CAI>ET: Sophomores from 4-year or Community College that arc undecided about continuing college may 4ualify llu immediate Pilot training. Re4uircments: 60 semester hours. 2.5 GPA. and pass the aptitude lest. Single/no 
dependents. 
AVIATION RESERVE OFFICER CANI>IDATE: 
Guaranteed Pilot/Flight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola. FL) during Junior year summer break and upon completion of BS/BA degree. 
BACCALAUREATE I>EGREE COMPLETION PROGRAM: 
An Affim1ativc Action program l<>r students with a "B" average, or bellcr. Selected students will receive $HXKl a month until graduation. No drilling or meetings re4uired. 
EXCEPTIONAL ENGINEERING STUI>ENT PROGRAM: Sophomores & Juniors majoring in Engineering. Math, Physics. or Chemistry. Must maintain a 3.3/4.0 GPA. Selected students will receive $1100 a month until graduation, plus additional bonuses. No drilling or meetings 
rc4uircd. 

Mrw ht• a U.S. citizen & in 1100d ht•alth. 
NAVY~ OFFICER. 


LEAD TilE ADVENTURE. 
The Final Sixteen 
Arizona 
Iowa 

r----iSeattle, WA 
Kansas City, MO 

'-----tNorth Carolina 
__--;Kansas City, MO 
Oklahoma
April 2 


~------~1~----L~o~u~is_v_ill~e 
1-..--IBirmingham, AL Vl'llanova 
March 24 & 26.--__:;..;.;.=.;...;.;:;...;..;;;.
I Kentucky 

thanded hitters continued to lead the team like they have all season. After 16 games, Hut­son, a senior first baseman, is batting .429 with six home runs and 27 runs batted in, sopho­more outfielder Peltier is bat­ting .440 with 19 RBI and 20 runs scored and senior shortstop Pesavento has scored 19 runs with a .356 bat­ting average. 
"Those are the three guys we're counting on," said Murphy. "We knew at the beginning of the year these guys were going to hit, and they haven't discouraged us at all." 
The Irish opened the Texas trip with a doubleheader split with Schreiner on March 12. Schreiner (11-19) won the first game 4-0 behind Joby Hill's three-hitter, while Brian Piotrowicz and Mike Harmon combined to pitch a six-hitter in a losing effort. 
Notre Dame rebounded to take the second game 19-2 be­hind homers by Peltier and Pesavento. Junior second baseman Mike Moshier went 4­for-5 with two runs and six RBI, and James Sass went 3-for-4 with three runs. Kevin Chenail allowed just one run in four in­nings to pick up the win. 
St. Edward's (11-18) edged the Irish two days later by a 5-4 score in 11 innings. Notre Dame held a 4-0 lead after two innings, but St. Edward's chipped away with one run in the fifth, three in the seventh and a final run in extra innings to earn the victory. Pesavento, sophomore Ed Lund and senior captain Steve Skupien each had two hits for the Irish. 
The Irish came back the next day with a doubleheader sweep of Texas Lutheran (15-6). Pel­tier and Hutson each had two hits to win the first game 7-3, and Hutson recorded five RBI in an 8-2 second-game victory. Mike Harmon, working in relief, won the first game, while Mike Passilla and Tom 
page 11 

-
i 
AP Photo 

Can the Rams keep celebrating? Tom Garrick and the rest of the upstart Rhode Island team are looking to be the real Cinderella& of 
the NCAA Tournament 
Howard combined on a six­hitter in the second game. 
Notre Dame played again on March 18, and Incarnate Word (22-9) handed the Irish a 10-2 whipping. Incarnate Word was led by a six-run third inning and the five-hit pitching of Mi­chael Gonzalez. 
The Irish were doing the whipping in their next game, spoiling the season-opener for Ivy League school Cornell with a 16-2 rout. Peltier and Hutson hit back-to-back homers in the eighth inning. Hutson's blast, the sixteenth of his career, broke Henry Valenzuela's school record for career homers. 

Irish golfers win triangular 
Special to the Observer of 307, followed by Embry Riddle with 312 and Flagler 
The Notre Dame golf team with 325. defeated Embry Riddle and Thr Irish did not fare as well Flagler College in a triangular in the Palm Coast Intercol­meet over break. The Irish legiate tournament, finishing were led by Pat Mohan with a nth out of 24 teams. round of 73 at the Riviera The University of North Country Club in Daytona, Fla. Florida won the competition 
"It was an excellent victory with a score of 904. The Irish on their home course," said totalled 970. Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan. Dick Connelly led the Irish "They were waiting to ambush with a 223 and teammate Pat us, but we came out smoking." Mohan followed for the Irish 
Notre Dame won with a score with a 244. 

March 24111 111ru 27111 at 8 pm Haggar Parlor/Saint Mary's College

ROBERT GRAHAM SMALL 
--tit 
Saim Mary_'s Col!!.'ge 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
St. Mary's (Texas) swept Notre Dame in a doubleheader the following day. St. Mary's 08-10) won the first game 7-6 in eight innings, and pulled out a 3-1 triumph in the second game. 
"It was a good trip," said Murphy. "The funny thing is that we played schools a lot of people haven't heard of, but these are NAIA teams playing Texas and other Southwest 
Conference teams and staying with them. They're not the little sisters of the poor. They are good teams. 
Notre Dame next goes to Bet­hel for a doubleheader on Wed­nesday at 1 p.m. 




,~ 
! 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1988 
Rivers scores 32 as Irish beat Dayton 72-59 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
DAYTON, Ohio -With time ticking down in the first half of the Notre Dame basketball team's regular season finale at Dayton on March 12, the Irish were clinging to a 27-26 lead and hopes for a fourth-straight trip to the NCAA Tournament. 
With time ticking down in his Notre Dame career, senior David Rivers realized what was on the line. Twenty wins, an NCAA Tournament bid and pride. With less than two minutes left in the opening half, Rivers nailed back-to-back 
Pre-tournament recap 
Irish bound for Chapel H i I I 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Writer 
Sunday, March 13 -NCAA Tournament bids are extended. Irish head coach Digger Phelps and his staff gather in the team's 'war room' to watch CBS' selection show. Phelps smiles when Notre Dame is shown to be going to Chapel Hill, N.C., to play Southern Methodist. "We're happy to be in, especially since some people thought we wouldn't make it," Phelps says. "We're not disappointed to be going to Chapel Hill. That's something the media worries about. We never once said that we wanted to play here, because if you do and then you don't, then you start the tournament off with a disappointment before you play." 
The good news for Phelps is that for the first time in three years he has tapes of his first­round opponent. Two years ago, Phelps had no tapes of Arkansas-Little Rock, and last year he had· to scramble to get tapes of Middle Tennessee State. By the time Phelps goes home for the night, he's watched two SMU games. 
Monday, March 14 -At a noon press conference, Phelps talks more about SMU. He praises the Mustangs' quickness and perimeter game now that he's had time to review tapes. 
Phelps is also suffering from 
a back injury he sustained in Saturday's win over Dayton. He says he stood up from his 
familiar crouch on the sideline 
and pulled something. He is un­dergoing treatment on it while preparing his squad.
Later Monday night, the team holds its annual banquet where senior guard David 
Rivers is named the team's
MVP for the fourth year. Rivers is also inducted into the the 2,000 point club and wins 

the free-throw shooting, assists I" 8. and captain's awards. Co­

appy 1rt day tO YOU! 
Captain Gary Voce also 
H a· hd 
receives a captain's award and 

appy lrt ay to you! Happy Birthday Cheryl Mott ~ 
~ Happy
Birthday to yoa! 
Love. 3 rd Floor Badin. 
three-pointers and with the 72­59 victory, the Irish were off and running to a short-lived trip to the NCAA Tournament. 
''They were slacking off me a little when we ran the pick and roll," said Rivers, "so the three was an option. I just tried to take advantage of it." 
Irish  head  coach  Digger  
Phelps  claimed  'vintage  
Rivers'  of  the  senior  co­ 

captain's 32-point perfor­mance. 
"David Rivers took over the game right before the half," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. 
His counterpart, Flyers' 
the rebounding award. 
Tuesday, March 15 -The squad practices this afternoon and leaves for Chapel Hill in the evening. 
Wednesday, March 16 -The Irish hold a closed practice at North Carolina Central in nearby Durham. Later in the afternoon, the Irish have an open practice at the Smith Cen­

ter on the North Carolina campus. After half an hour, Phelps halts the formal prac­tice, the team shoots around in­formally. The big men hold a horse game which features a three-point shoot out between Voce and Keith Robinson as well as a slam-dunk contest. 
At a press conference follow­ing, Phelps says his team is ready for tomorrow's contest with SMU. 
"We know what's ahead of us," he says. "We're ready to go play, that's why I stopped practice." 
At the same conference, Rivers is asked about the pos-

COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR THE SUMMER 
Camp Counselor Positions Available at Outstanding Sports Camps Camp Winaukee for Boys and Robindel for Girls 
One mile apart on 22 mile lake, near "On Golden Pond" site and the Maine coast. Good salaries and all transportation paid. Seek qualified specialists in all areas. 
Personal interviews available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11 AM TO 4 PM-THURSDAY, MARCH 24 
CALL COLLECT (215) 663-0366 
~=:=;;;=:::::::~:;:=~::==========
H h 

head coach Don Donoher, agreed. 
"Before Rivers' threes, they had scored two times in 14 pos­sessions. We shut them down nine times in a row at one point." 
But Rivers and the Irish would not be shut down after entering the lockerrom at halftime with a 33-26 advan­tage. Rivers matched his 16 first-half points with 16 more in the second frame. Underneath, Keith Robinson (16 points on 8­of-11 shooting) and Gary Voce cleared the boards to combine for 23 rebounds and hold Dayton's frontline at bay, hold­
sibility of playing Duke's Billy King (who limited Rivers to 3­of-18 shooting in an earlier meeting) in the second round. 
"To be honest, I'm totally concentrating on SMU," Rivers answers, "but to play Duke again would be a wish granted." 
Thursday, March 17 -Game day. With the Irish scheduled to play at 7 p.m., Phelps had scheduled a walk through for the early afternoon. Phelps cancels the walk through to keep his team loose. 
After the Irish lose to SMU, Phelps acknowledges that losing Rivers and Voce will hurt more than just on the court. 
"These two are sons I'll never forget," Phelps says. "David has been very special for Notre Dame, and Gary has developed into a fine player. He made himself a player. They've had great careers. 
"They're gentlemen off the court. They'll make it, even after basketball. I'll miss them." 
The loss leaves the team's managers calling to schedule a flight out of Chapel Hill. The Irish leave Friday morning. 

ing sophomore forward An­thony Corbitt (16.1 points per game) to just a second-half basket and eight points on the game. 
Sophomore Negele Knight led the Flyers with 21 points, hitting 2-of-3 from three-point range and 9-of-17 overall. But Knight was effective on one end of the floor only, as Rivers con­sistently drove past Knight in the closing minutes to pull up 
Sophomores, 



Juniors, 
& 


Seniors 
in Engineering, Physics, Chemistry and Math. 
Earn Over $1200A Month While Still In School! 
It's part of the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Pro­gram. And the money you can earnwhilestill in school is just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with im­mediate authority and responsibility. This is the only program of its kind in the world. 
To qualify you must be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-six, be in good health and meet stringent academic requirements. 
A Navy Engineering Programs Specialist will be on campus March_2_s...:...,_l_9_ss_____ Make an appoint:rrent 'SlL the Career & Placement Svc. 
For more information call toll-free 
1-800 527-8836 
...._____Lead the Adventure____,., 





NIGHTWIND'S 
RECORDS 
Is taking a chance on South Bend. Is there flttYBODY out there who can hear past their ttOSE? If so you have only 2 WEEKS to show yourselves and take advantage of our sale on CROSs-COLTORfiL MOSIC!!!! 
in the lane for jumpers or draw a foul. Rivers tallied eight of Notre Dame's last 10 points, while Knight picked up three fouls in the final four minutes. 
"Hopefully, securing 20 wins will make the difference,'' said Rivers of a pending NCAA in­vitation. "I went into the game with that attitude and so did the other players. It was very im­portant for us to win this game." 

~ ----~ 
Tuesday, March 22, 1988 The Observer 
Women finish off Dayton 77-64 --· 
By BRIAN O'GARA Notre Dame built up a 32-25 nice shots, Mary hit a couple 
Assistant Sports Editor halftime lead behind Botham's and Lisa hit one or two so that 
eight points and seven points opened things up for us under­
DAYTON, Ohio -Two teams from juniors Heidi Bunek and neath." went to Dayton for the first Lisa Kuhns. While Kuhns kept As the Dayton zone moved weekend of break and came the Lady Flyers honest with out to cover the outside shot, away with their 20th win of the her sharpshooting from long Gavin and Robinson found season. One guaranteed a range, Bunek and Botham Bunek open underneath as the postseason, the other left the worked the paint against the 6-4 junior scored 12 of Notre,... court for the last time. smaller Dayton team. Dame's next 14 points and the 
The Notre Dame women's The Lady Flyers hung tough Irish pulled away for a 67-56 basketball team ended its 1987-in the second half but found it lead with two minutes to play. 88 campaign with a 77-64 win difficult to overcome Notre Bunek finished with a game­over the Lady Flyers of Dayton Dame's .609 shooting high 20 points, while Robinson on March 12. Despite their 20-8 percentage. For the game the chipped in with 16. record, the Irish did not receive Irish shot 53%, just under their Gavin finished out the a bid to the NCAA or NWIT nation-leading .535 field goal scoring, the ·season and her postseason tournaments. percentage. Feeling pressured career with a 30-foot buzzer 
Senior co-captains Sandy to put more points on the board shot off a Robinson inbounds 
Botham and Mary Gavin from the inside, Dayton left the pass. 
brought their four-year careers back court vulnerable to the "It was great," said Gavin. 
to a close in fine fashion, Irish fast break. Freshman "I said, 'Sandy, set a pick for 
scoring 17 and 11 points, guard Karen Robinson opened me,' and she told me, 'If you 
respectively, while pacing the the half with six quick points, make this shot I'll buy you a 
Irish victory. including four in I'll-take-on-keg.' And it went in." 

"I think Mary had one of the the-world moves to the hoop on soon as I get out of here. I may best games she's had in a long Gavin fast break passes. 
have had a bad day, but I

Notebook
time," said first-year Notre The break continued to work guarantee I'll have more fun 
Dame head coach Muffet for the Notre Dame minutes continued from page 16 tonight than any of you." McGraw. "She did a great job later when Gavin, with her Keady is granted his wish of with the ball bringing it up back to the Irish basket as she more fans in the second half a 'Black and Gold' Joyce ACC against their pressure, and it fought off two Dayton when the crowd realizes the as Purdue supporters fi11 up the looked like she had a lot of fun defenders, drilled a no-look beauties will return if MSU arena. Only Keady himself out there. And Sandy played over-the-head pass to Robinson wins. runs astray of the color code, real hard as always. We're who finished it off for a 42-29 Kansas State overcomes a donning a Kelly green tie and going to miss their leadership Notre Dame lead. pesky, but too erratic, LaSalle carnation in recognition of St. next year." The Lady Flyers closed the squad and Purdue holds off Patrick's Day. 
Botham, Notre Dame's gap to 53-47 with 6:08 remain-Farleigh Dickinson 94-79. But The NCAA also administers career rebound leader with 773, ing, but would get no closer. FDU head coach Tom Green drug tests after Thursday's also pulled down 10 rebounds Though a tough packed-in zone makes another run at most en­games. Last year the urine while Gavin, the Irish career kept Bunek quiet through much tertaining coach honors in the tests were done after al1 first steals and assists leader, of the second half, the inside post-game press conference. round games, but the tests dished out 11 assists in the con-opened up as Irish guards con-"Don't feel sorry for Tom were done at random this year. test. nected from the outside. Green," he says. "We had a Post-game press conferences 
"We came out today and just "They were packing it in and great year and finished 23-6. I'll are slightly delayed at times knew we weren't going to lose," putting two people on Heidi and tell you this. I've got a beautiful when dehydration prevents said McGraw, "especially with Sandy so we had to stick the wife and a bottle of champagne some players from filling it up the way Mary and Sandy have jumper," said McGraw. waiting in the hotel room and after the game as easily as they been playing so hard." "Karen Robinson had some we're going to celebrate as did during it. 
~==~==~==~==~==~F=~F===~==~==~ 
SUB presents •• 
The annual 




-Musical Competition! $300 Grand Prize!!! 


Saturday. March 26 9:00pm Stepan Center 

featuring: Comedian Henry Cho, • The Tennessee Korean,• as master of cG!remonies. 
Interested acts contact Maura at 283-2745 
Friday, March 18 -A quiet day. Four teams head home while the four survivors from Thursday take to the court for closed practice sessions. Coaches and top players meet the press to do little else but repeat their respect and praise for their upcoming opponent. 

Saturday, March 19 -Purdue maintains their 'stay-loose' at­titude by surviving a good Memphis State performance and exploding for 62 second­half points on its way to a 100-73 win over the Tigers. 
The finale is the best game at the JACC as Kansas State overcomes DePaul 66-58 and silences the DePaul fans, which were easily the most an­noying and obnoxious of the eight groups of fans who made the trip_to support their teams. 

--~------~~ ~-­
..----------------­
Tuesday, March 22, 1988

page 14 The Observer 

Lacrosse team returns from the mountains 3-1 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer  talented Colorado College team which lost to Air Force 14-13 the previous week. Although  stressed that the team played hard and was able to gain con­fidence in many aspects of the  playing fields, and illness emerged as possible roadblocks for the Irish, yet  tivity of Shay and McHugh and said that Lanahan and McNic­bolas "provided a lot of oppor­ 
COLORADO  SPRINGS,  Olmstead  was  playing below  game.  they were able to adjust.  tunities not only for themselves  
Colo.  -The  Notre  Dame  par because of illness, the Irish  ''I think that the team, in gen­ Junior middie Mark Rizzieri  but also by passing off when  
lacrosse team entered into mile  came up big against the Tigers  eral,  played  hard  and  that  missed two full games with a  double-teamed."  
high country with lofty aspira­ behind the hat tricks of both  showed a lot of character which  virus while four other players  Senior Art Brady, the final  
tions of their own and left with  McHugh and Shay.  will pay off in the long run,"  experienced off-and-on illness.  tri-captain, also played a key  
a 3-1 record. Despite losing a  "I think the strength of our  O'Leary said.  Adding to the discomfort were  role as the Irish's first face-off  
key shootout with Air Force  team is in playing together and  O'Leary pointed to the Air  early  week  temperatures  man.  Brady  won  16  of  22  
during  this  year's  annual  not relying on one player or one  Force game as an example of  which flirted around 30 degrees · faceoffs  against  Colorado  to  
spring trip, the team emerged  aspect of the team to win the  the team's character. In that  coupled with an even deadlier  help  the  Irish put the game  
with momentum and the hope  game for us," McHugh said.  game the Cadets took off to a  wind-chill factor.  away  and  he  won  14  of  22  
that an NCAA bid is still within  "We can win by scoring goals  4-0 lead shortly into the second  "I was  definitely surpsised  against Air Force to keep Notre  
their reach.  or outplaying the other team on  quarter and appeared  on  the  that, with all that stuff going  Dame's hopes alive.  
The Irish posted their best spring break record in recent memory by winning three of four games in seven days. They were beaten by Air Force 14-8 in a crucial game but came up victorious against the Colorado School of Mines, Colorado Col­ defense." The Irish wrapped up the trip with a 15-3 drubbing of the Uni­versity of Colorado. The team peppered the Colorado goal with 51 shots and led 10-1 at halftime. Olmstead and Shay again turned in hat tricks and  way to a blowout. But the Irish quickly responded by sc,:oring three goals in less than two minutes. Junior defenseman Doug Spen­cer found Shay alone near the crease on a fast-break for the first goal. McHugh then passed  on, everyone still had a good attitude going into the game," senior tri-captain John McNic­bolas said. "Everyone was mentally and physically prepared and showed some toughness." Freshman Pete Gillin, who  O'Leary also pointed out the play of sophomore middie Mike Quigley and senior defenseman Randy McDonald. "Mike is just coming into his own and I expect him to take over a strong part of the scoring in the next couple of  
lege,  and  the  University  of  then  turned  it  over  to  the  to Olmstead from behind the  was forced to play both defen­ weeks.  His  quickness  will  
Colorado. Air Force's victory  second  team  of junior Mark  net for another tally and when  sive  middie  and  third  line  help," O'Leary said. "The play  
gave the Cadets the early ad­ Healy and freshman Rob Lynn,  junior  middie  Dave  Kidder  middie because of Rizzieri's ill- of Randy has been very solid.  
vantage in  the  fight  for  the  who  both  scored  their  first  pushed in a loose ball the Irish  ness,  was  one  of the players  He hasn't been spectacular, but  
NCAA Tournament's  western  goals of the season.  were  suddenly  back  in  the  who was  sick and yet played  he hasn't made any mistakes."  
bid.  "We played as hard against  game.  surprisingly well, according to  The lacrosse team begins its  
"Air Force played a lot bet­ CU as we did against Air Force  The first half ended in favor  O'Leary.  quest for the Great Lakes title  
ter than I thought they would.  and we did all the things we  of the Cadets, 6-4. The Irish  "Pete has been very impres­ in the coming week. They play  
We couldn't run with them and  needed  to.  Our  passing  was  stayed close at 7-5 behind an­ sive for a freshman. He picked  three  games  in  four  days,  
the  more pressure we put on  sharp and we were able to get  other strong move to the goal  up some key ground balls and  beginning  with  a  weekend  
them the more tired we got,"  a  lot  of  people  involved,"  by  Olmstead,  but  then  Air  was able to take the ball upfield  homestand  against  Wooster  
Irish coach Rich O'Leary said.  O'Leary said. "Overall it was  Force flew away from Notre  and  take  it  to  the  goal,"  and Windy City and finishing  
"Obviously they have the leg  a real good game to finish on  Dame.  O'Leary said.  O'Leary also  with a game Tuesday at Mic­ 
up  on  us  in  regards  to  the  because we ran the offense the  The Cadets reeled off four  praised the surprising produc­ higan.  

NCAA's but it still could come way we needed to and the goals in a row and closed the down to the end of the season." defense regained some of the third period with a 12-06 advan­confidence it may have lost tage. Sexton scored three of his 
Air Force senior Tom Sexton against Air Force." goals in that crucial third per­provided the margin of victory According to Lanahan, one of iod as he continually flew threw by scoring six unassisted goals this year's tri-captains, this the crease and beat Irish goalie and offsetting the play of the year's spring trip is the most Matt McQuillan. Irish attackmen. Junior attack successful in the past four "The key for Sexton was that John Olmstead led the Irish years. "This is the first time he was in the right place at the with four goals while fellow line I've come back on a team with right time. He certainly sup­member Jeff Shay contributed three wins. During spring plied a lot of spark and could two goals and an assist. break it's important to get the have been the catalyst for their 
Notre Dame opened the trip wins and now it's most impor­team," O'Leary said. and the season with a 12-8 vic­tant for us to concentrate on O'Leary said that Air Force's tory against a scrappy winning the Great Lakes Con­conditioning advantage was Colorado Mines team thanks to' ference," he said. probably strengthened by the a six point performance by Most of the team agrees that fact that cold and snowy wea­Olmstead and a hat trick by the trip has set them up to ther forced the game indoors senior middie Tom Lanahan. make a run at the conference to the Air Force fieldhouse. In They then won 10-7 over a title. O'Leary particularly fact, problems with weather, 
Arizona's 'Cats are on a mission 
Associated Press boast a 33-2 record. ''They want 24-9, including a loss to Arizona 
to make a statement. We're this season. 
While some coaches sound really pleased with the way we In the swirl of upsets and one­apprehensive of their next op­played, but Friday, we'll play sided victories in the first two ponent in the NCAA basketball better. This team has not had rounds, the No. 1 seeds-­tournament, Arizona Coach a lull." Temple, Arizona, Purdue and Lute Olson is brimming with All-American forward Sean 
Oklahoma--remain among the 
confidence. Elliott of the Wildcats said: ''it 16 teams left in the chase for "This team has been on a doesn't matter who we play. the national title, to be decided mission all year," Olson said Bring on whoever's next." April 4. They also were the top­
of his Pacific 10 champions who Iowa, where Olson coached ranked teams, in that order, in 
before moving to Arizona in the final Associated Press 1983-84, is the next opponent for ratings.ND-SMU the Wildcats Friday in a West 
In the other West semifinal, 

Regional semifinal at Seattle. seventh-ranked North The Hawkeyes, seeded fifth Carolina, 26-6, faces Michigan, 
box score and ranked 17th nationally, are 26-7, ranked No. 10. 
First-round Results SMU 83, Notre Dame 75 Notre Dame (75) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Robinson 28 4-9 1-2 8 5 9 
J. Jackson 38 8-10 4-6 2 4 20 Voce 38 9-13 6-8 11 4 24 Fredrick 21 0-2 0-0 0 1 0 Rivers 36 5-15 2-3 5 3 12 Stevenson 23 4-8 2-3 2 0 10 Paddock 50-00-0010 Singleton 4 0-0 0-0000 
is now accepting
T. Jackson 7 0-0 0-0300 200 30-57 15-22 31 18 75 

applications for the 
FG Pet. -.526. FT Pet. -.682. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -15. Assists -18 positions of (Rivers 9). 3-PT shooting -Fredrick 0-1, Rivers 0-3. Technicals -none. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
SMU (83)  
Thomas  M 40  FG-A 6-8  FT-A 5-6  R 8  F 3  P 17  and  
McKinney Puddy Armstrong  31 6-11 13 0-2 37 13-22  0-0 0-0 3-4  3 4 2  4 4 2  13 0 29  SALES MANAGER.  
Longino  20  2-7  0-0  2  1  4  



<£,prin8 Concerl Wednesday March 23. 1988 7:30p.m. Joyce Alhlelic (l1 Convocation Cenler University of Nolre Dame free Admission Public lnviled 
LOYOLA SUMMER SESSIONS 
' 

. 
Day or evening classes • Wide array of courses in Business, Arts and Sciences, Education, Nursing • All summer courses applicable to regular Loyola University degrees • Classes at theol-ake Shore. Water Tower, and Medical Center Campuses. 
RRST SESSION SECOND SESSION (6 weeks beginning May 23) (6 weeks beginning July 5) Registration by mail or in person: Registration by mail or in person: MAY 16,9:00-12:00 JUNE21. 10:00-1:00 2:00-6:00 3:00-6:00 All in-person registrations In the Georgetown Room of the Marquette Center, 820 North Rush Street, Chicago 
Telephone 312/67D-3011 or complete the coupon below to receive a copy of the 1988 Bulletin of The Summer Sessions. The Bulletin includes complete course listings as well as information on how to regis­ter by mail or in person. 
LOYOLA. REAL VALUES FOR YOUR MONEY. 
Alexander 32 4-13 2-2 3 4 11 
Perdue 27 4-4 1-2 5 2 9 Applications may be obtained on the r----------------,I
I U The Summer Sessions 
200 35-67 11-14 27 20 83 
2nd floor of LaFortune and are to be LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
FG Pet. -.522. FT Pet. -.786. Team 
returned to Christina Fallon in the I • 820 North Michigan Avenue • Chicago. Illinois 60611 1
rebounds -2. Turnovers -7. Assists -14 
(Alexander 5). 3-PT shooting-McKinney 1-1, Adworks office by 5:00 pm, Monday, 
Longino 0-1 , Alexander 1-4. Technicals -NM£ PHONE
I I
March 28.
none. AOORESS 
Halftime -SMU 37, Notre Dame 36. Offi­crrv________sTATE z1P
I I 
cials -Richard Ballesteros, Jim Stupin, We are an equal Ol)llOf1untly ~'"''~ NO ..1 
Robert Bell. A -21.444 (c). L 
-~----.-.--..-.--..,~~.-­

Tuesday, March 22, 1988 The Observer 
page 15 

~. 



Campus 
12:00 p.m. Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar, "Comparative Analysis of Grass Roots Religious Movements," by Daniel Levine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Room 131 Decio. 
12:10 p.m. Art Noontalk, "Photographs by David Hockney," by Richard L. Gray, Notre Dame, O'Shaughnessy Gallery West. 3:30p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Chaos and Fractals in Mechanical Systems," by Professor F. C. Moon, Cornell University, Room 303 Cushing Hall. 
4:15 p.m. Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values lecture, "Three Models for the Science-Technology Relationship," by Professor Hans Radder, Department of Philosophy, Free University, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Li­brary Lounge. 
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "The Microscopic Violation of Time Reversal Invariance--New Perspectives on an Old Problem," by Professor Ikarus Bigi, Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar, "Calcium Regulation During Contraction­-Relaxation in Smooth Muscle," by Dr. Kaushik D. Meisheri, Cardiovascular Diseases Researct. The Upjohn Company, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, Frampton! GehrtGottheimD'Neill Program, 77 minutes. Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "The Decameron," 1970, 111 minutes, directed by Pier Paulo Pasolini, Italy, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Sausagei>epper Grinder Veal Parmigiana 
Bourbon Baked Ham Pasta Bar 

SObering
Advice . ~ cansa~e
.. 
alife ,
,-.:; 
·,4·
..· 



Comics . 
Bloom County 
$1Y... WHIIT'5 7lfi/T v&&f'&RS/ 
IJP TH€1('£ ? 111'1 WHIIT 
7

Ill/£# 5PIIC£Cf?f/Fr ~~ Hflf'f&N&f? . I 
Calvin and Hobbes  Bill Watterson  
Will, ~0\J OOT CAT~ 1\~'ffi.l\~<3 I~ 14~ IERR\TORi. n1JI..T'S W\-\JI..T \liE &:f:J'f... S/I..~S.  t:WWW. IT'S GOT l\ffi.£ '5\'IKES 1\\.l_ CliJER 1-\\t.\. TIGER'S R't:M.L~ t.t>.\ \\-\ESE?  \'-1\\() 1\R£. iOJ Gel1N<3 I\) 'Ot.l\'t.'IE, SJME Sill.~ \flR\IER OR t>­REt>.L 1\GER?  


WOODY ALLEN WEEK 
Saint Mary's Calzone Salisbury Steak with Gravy Broccoli and Cheese Pasta Deli Bar 

Berke Breathed 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Quiet one 5 Protective 

canvas for short 9 Grenoble's 
department 14 Caron role 15 Russ. sea 16 Water wheel 17 Numerical 
prefix 18 A Hayworth 19 Student group 20 What a star Is 
like 23 Rank Indicator 24 Ancient Ger. 
king 25 Work unit 27 Belong 

Intrinsically 32 Tree 36 Different 39 Yemen city 40 Diamonds 
according to 
a song 43 Sighing word 44 Bone: pref. 45 Sea eagles 46 A cheese 48 Bird of yore 50 As well 53 Sports arenas 58 Game layout 63 Pedro's pal 64 Repute 65 Minced oath 66 Machine part 67 Small monkey 68 Baseball team 69 Don clothing 70 Dame Myra ­71 Forest denizen 
DOWN 1 Lumps of 

earth 2 Within the law 3 Church 
feature 4 "-VIce" 5 Nat or Tina 6 Gobl-llke 7 Relationship 8 Herb 
~+--+--+-­
-' 

©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
9 Korean port 10 Shoe part 11 Notable times 12 Venture 13 Lenient 21 Unclasps 22 Burglar 26 Turns to the 
right 28 Crowning 
glory 29 Paradise 30 Coty 31 Extremities 32 Chin. gelatin 33 Farm building 34 Nanny's 
vehicle 35 A Maxwell 37 WWII boat 

38 Watch part 41 Yale song word 42 Gaucho rope 47 Gomer Pyle 49 Husband of Isis  51 Laziness 52 Popular song way back 54 Correct 55 Orphaned calf 56 Silly  57 Serpent 58 Poet 59 Love god 60 Location 61 Self Images 62 Polka - 
Far Side  Gary Larson  



Cartoon readings 
"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex" -but were afraid to ask! Wed & Thurs 8 & 10 pm "A Mid Summer Night Sex Comedy" Fri & Sat 8 & 10 pm 





Sports 
Tuesday, March 22, 1988 
page 16 
•

Mustangs buck ND out 1n first round of NCAA's 
Armstrong leads SMU to 85-73 win 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 6:21 mark, but Armstrong one of his better games, he Sports Writer ended the run, and Irish hopes, finished with 12, and Jackson with a driving shot to put SMU had a career-high 20 points. 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Notre on top for good at 64-62. To top it off, the Irish shot 65 Dame ran into a wild Mustang The Mustangs and Irish percent in the first half, but in the first round of the NCAA traded hoops to put the score trailed mainly because of 11 Tournament, a pony which at 66-64, but Armstrong hit turnovers. In the end, there bucked the Irish right out of the from inside the three-point was too much Kato. tourney. · stripe, and the Irish never got "It came down to us stopping 
SMU's Kato Armstrong closer. SMU finished off the Armstrong," Phelps said. "We scored 29 points, 19 in the game with long passes over the cut the lead a few times and he second half, as the Mustangs press which led ot easy slams. just scored. I told David before trotted by the Irish 83-75, en-"When it was showtime, the game that Kato would be ding their season at 20-9. Armstrong took the game juiced to play him because 
Armstrong single-handedly over," Irish head coach Digger David gets the exposure Kato kept the Irish at bay. Every Phelps said. "We tried David wanted." time the Irish got close, Armstrong, however, simply Armstrong would hit, usually Chapel Hill Notebook •. page 12 said it was a 'good' game for over either J a mere Jackson or Irish beat Dayton ......... page 12 him. David Rivers. 14 "I wasn't juiced, I was just
With the score tied at 41 at SMU box score .............. page 
ready to play," Armstrong the 16:46 mark of the second and Jamere on him; and he shot said. "We had a couple of days half, Armstrong bottomed a over them. We couldn't crack off and we were just ready to jumper to put SMU up 43-41. At their momentum." get back to playing. That was the 8: 07 mark, Armstrong took More frustrating for the Irish what we were looking forward over the show. was that they had their game to. 
~ 
,_,.

With SMU leading 57-56, plan going. They had shut down "Our conference is a confer­Armstrong canned a jumper. the Mustang transition game ence that you may not hear After Rivers hit from 16 to close for most of the contest and had much about, but there are a lot ­to 59-58, Armstrong scored their big men, Carlton McKin­of good players. This wasn't the --.....
."~ 

again and was fouled by Jack­ney and Glenn Puddy, in foul best game I've had. It was a 
The Observer /Trey Reymond 
son. The ensuing free throw put trouble. The Irish, meanwhile good game that I've had." the Mustangs up 62-58. Rivers were getting the ball inside to Terry Thomas added 17 for Jamere Jackson scored a career-high 20 points, but the Irish and Gary Voce hit short Voce, who finished with 24.. the Mustangs, while McKinney defense could not stop Kato Armstrong and the Irish fell to the jumpers to knot the score at the And while Rivers didn't have had 13. Mustangs in the first round of the NCAA Tournament at Chapel Hill. 
Irish turned away from post-season play 


Women finish at 20-8 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN stead, the Blue Demons were than their's." 
Sports Writer invited to the Women's NIT Notre Dame's chances of which gets underway later this making post-season tourna­After the Notre Dame wo­week in Amarillo, Texas. ments may improve when the men's basketball team "The biggest problem, I Irish begin play in the Midwes­defeated Dayton 77-64 to end guess, was they (the NWIT), tern Collegiate Conference the season with a 20-8 record, didn't want to take two teams next season. For now, though,the Irish found themselves in from the North Star Confer­McGraw, who was named the the worst of all places--on the ence," McGraw said. "'The NSC's Coach of the Year after outside looking in. whole midwest didn't fare bringing the Irish back from a 
When the women's NCAA well." 12-15 season a year ago, isn't Tournament and NIT selection so sure. committees issued their invita­"We lose a lot of leadership,"
Irish win finale ...••..•••.•• page 13
tions March 13, the Irish McGraw. "I don't think (the
weren't on either guest list. 

-----------MCC) will help. Sandy
"I'm disappointed," said McGraw also expressed (Botham), Mary (Gavin) and Head Coach Muffet McGraw surprise that Villanova, a team Kathy Barron provided a lot of last Monday. "I didn't expect which beat Notre Dame 56-55 leadership. Right now we don't an NCAA bid, but those who and finished their regular have that. I really felt this was don't get in should go to the season at 20-7, made the NCAA the year." NIT." Tourney. IRISH ITEMS -In addition to 
In that regard, Notre Dame "All we heard was strength McGraw's selection, Botham 
was hurt when DePaul, a North of schedule," McGraw said, was named a first-team all­victory In the teams' final game of the season. Despite a 20-8 record, Star Conference rival which "and we had the 25th toughest NSC squad, while Gavin and the Irish were left out of post season play. Dennis Corrigan has the beat the Irish twice, was not schedule. They let Villanova in, Heidi Bunek were second-team Irish reaction at right. extended an NCAA bid. In-and our schedule was tougher selections. 
Notre Dame hosts tournament; Purdue leads the way 
By RICK RIETBROCK tourages arrive in South Bend, part of the season. If we get port, Pennsylvania and when place where a guys goes up and and BRIAN O'GARA occupying spaces in over 10 beat this year it won't ruin my you're from Brockport you're gets hit so much and the refs Sports Writers local hotels. Six media tables summer. Whatever we do from just happy to be anywhere." act like nothing happened," he 
are set up in the basketball now on is frosting on the cake." On his senior forwards: says after the game. Sunday, March 13 -Bids are arena, three on each side of the "They're like bookends. Some­Perhaps lba would have had announced and Purdue, as ex­court to accommodate over 250 NCAA ~~~~~ times they hold us together, a brighter outlook if he had
...!..:N~O~T;:.:;:E::...B_O_O_K__ ;j;___, · ~~:
pected grabs the top seed in the media members. sometimes they just collect seen the halftime show, which 
~::..:...:=-==..:....:....--1,1
Midwest bracket. Wednesday, March 15 -The dust." featured three-time defending
---:--:------.,. ,h
Purdue head coach Gene top-seeded Boilermakers open South Bend IN ·•ot .,._.,~,~·~.-"·/ Thursday, March 17 -None of champion Memphis State Pom­Keady expresses his desire to today's open-to-the-public the first round games causes Pon Squad. Brent Musberger "fill up the arena at Notre practice sessions, which con­Purdue's opening-round op­much of a stir. DePaul defeats could very well have made the Dame with Purdue Black and sist mainly of shooting drills. ponent, Farleigh-Dickinson, Wichita State in an all-out most astute judgment of his Gold," hoping Notre Dame Purdue head coach Gene takes to the floor next and Head blowout, and the other games career when he named this fans would sell their tickets to Keady, like his experienced Coach Tom Green resembles a are only mildly contested. squad of southern belles the the Boilermakers' boosters team, appears loose and stand-up act in his post­Memphis State defeats Baylor most entertaining halftime since the Irish are shipped to relaxed before the press dis­practice press conference. 75-60 and leaves Bears coach show in college basketball. It's Chapel Hill. cussing Purdue's Tournament On facing the No. 1 seed close Gene lba in a less-than-merry no wonder the Tigers have 
Tuesday, March 14 -Most of woes of late. to its turf: "I'm just happy to mood. the eight teams and their en-"This tournament is the fun be here. I was born in Brock-"I've never been around a see NOTEBOOK, page 13 






