
Don't look
IACCENT: 87-88 Television Wrap-Up 
A 100 percent chance of rain, possibly mixed with snow, today with highs in the mid
IVIEWPOINT: Rapping with Ronnie 40s. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 131 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Israelis, Arabs clash on border 
Associated Press hundreds of Palestinians from reaching jobs in Israel by con­
JERUSALEM -Israeli troops fiscating their ID cards and re­on Tuesday tracked down and quiring them to undergo checks attacked a band of Arab guer­at government offices. rillas infiltrating from The government also tempo­Lebanon into Israel. Two Is­rarily revoked the press raelis and three guerrillas credentials of two foreign jour­were killed, authorities said. nalists, Martin Fletcher of 
NBC and Glenn Frankel of The 
Two other Israeli soldiers Washington Post, for failing to were wounded in the firefight. submit their dispatches to mil­One was in serious condition itary censorship. with a bullet wound to his chest, authorities said. The border attack began 
The attack in the rocky ter­before dawn when Israeli sol-.,. '"""'"''""'""' rain and scrub brush near the diers on a patrol discovered Lebanese border was the footprints northeast of the town bloodiest border clash since of Kiriyat Shimona, an Army Dec. 8, when Palestinian riots spokesman said. began in Israeli-occupied ter­For several hours, troops lit ritories to the south. the skies with flares and 
In the Gaza Strip, mean­searched for the intruders, the while, the Army blocked spokesman said. 
Dukakis topples Jackson; clinches front runner spot 
Associated Press "very, very helpful" in his quest for the White House. 
PHILADELPHIA -Michael Jackson was gaining 27 per­Dukakis routed Jesse Jackson cent of the democratic vote and in the Pennsylvania Demo­said he intended to compete cratic primary Tuesday night, through the end of the primary certifying his status as season on June 7. "The race is presidential front-runner. not to the swift and the strong," George Bush won a resounding he said. "I'm a long-distance Republican victory and runner. It's too close now to predicted the state would turn around." deliver the final delegates Network polling place inter­needed to clinch the nomina­views contained news that was tion. as good for Dukakis as his vote 
By their victories, Bush and totals. Dukakis emerged as almost certain opponents in the fall Though Jackson gained more general election campaign -than 90 percent support from survivors of a campaign blacks, ABC polling analyst marathon that once featured Doug Muzzio said that, for the seven democratic candidates first time in the campaign and six republicans. season, Dukakis was winning a 
Dukakis was gaining 67 per­majority of voters who cited 
interest in cultural
cent of the vote with 43 percent the poor and elderly as their of the precincts counted and chief concerns -voters Jackson By MICHELLE DALL currently developing a said his victory would be won in prior contests. 
Copy Editor schedule of events for the up­coming year. A ''distinguished In an effort to increase lecture series inviting
Doctors unsure if girl 
minority awareness at Notre minorities who are leaders in Dame, "the University has des­their fields to deliver addresses su.ffered brain damage ignated 1988-89 as The Year of on their specialties" is one of Cultural Diversity," according the scheduled activities, accor­
By DAN MURPHY comfortable as part of our com­to Associate Provost Oliver ding to Williams. 
munity," he said. 
Staff Reporter Williams. Other activities may include 
Rodgers told the HPC the ad­Williams said this plan special exhibits at the Snite
Melissa Sauceda, the high missions office will bring any evolved as an outgrowth of the museum, featured musicschool senior struck in the head flowers, posters, cards or other to and halftime
minority report submitted groupsby a keg last Friday, is out of gifts to Sauceda Friday after­University President Father shows at football games. Ac­
a coma after three days but noon. He encouraged the hall Edward Malloy in June 1987. cording to Williams, Notre remains in the intensive care presidents to send something to Since that time, a committee Dame student government has unit at Saint Joseph's Hospital, Sauceda on behalf of their 
comprised of Notre Dame stu­also invited Rev. Jesse Jackson according to Marty Rodgers, a respective dorms. 
dents and faculty members has to speak at the University instudent counselor at the admis­"One of the great things been formed to organize the ef­either September or October ofsions office. about Notre Dame is how we fort. the coming year. 
all stick together, how we bond Campus Ministry is also or­"She is, hopefully, a future together as a community in the Williams said the goal of the ganizing special events for
member of the Notre Dame face of adversity," Rodgers committ~ is "to raise the level Martin Luther King Jr.'s
community," Rodgers said, said. He told the HPC that of consciousness of all mem­birthday, as well as inviting aaddressing the Hall Presi­Sauceda is sleeping a lot during bers of the Notre Dame com­black and a Hispanic bishop to dents' Council Tuesday night. the day, and doctors are still munity to the importance of each serve one mass at Sacred
'·I don't know what her decision unsure if she suffered any brain minorities in American life and will be after the incident, but, see HPC, page 4 culture." To reach this goal, Heart Church. The group is 
working in conjunction with
hopefully, we can make her feel Williams said the committee is 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1988 
diversity 
priests who serve dorm masses in the hope that at least three homilies a year will focus on racism. 
Williams said the students selected for the committee "have distinguished them­selves in some way.'' Accor­ding to Williams, the student committee members "hold elected leadership positions, are minorities themselves or are distinguished academical­ly." Williams chairs the com­mittee. 
Williams said he is "over­awed with the immense amount of enthusiasm and good will" the effort has prOduced. He continued, "The plan is part of our educational mission at Notre Dame ... We are culturally deprived if we do not recognize the role minorities have played in 
American history and the role 
they will certainly continue to 
play in the future." 

page2 The Observer Wednesday, April 27, 1988 
< 

Of Interest 
Peace Corps internship applications are due today by 5 p.m. at die Center for Social Concerns. Applications are still available at the CSC, at the Peace Institute in the Law School and in 101 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
The Royal Lichtenstein Quarter Ring Sidewalk Circus will be on the Fieldhouse Mall today from noon until 1: 15 p.m. The event is sponsored by student govern­ment and the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
A panel discussion concerning "Violence Against Lesbian/Gay Lives" will be held tonight from 7:30 to 9 at the YWCA. The event is sponsored by N.O.W. in conjunc­tion with S.O.S. "Take Back the Night" march and Vic­tims' Rights Week. For more information contact Ellyn at 289-2126. -The Observer 
The Juggler's spring 1988 issue will be distributed today in LaFortune Student Center, O'Shaughnessy Hall and the library. The Juggler poetry reading will be today at 8 p.m. in the library lounge, and the writing competition award winners will be announced. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
Senior Month ticket sales will not be held in the Notre Dame Room as indicated. They will be in the Senior Class office from 3 to 5 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Connecticut Club sign-ups for loading the baggage truck will be today from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the main lobby .of LaFortune Student Center and from 9 to 9:30p.m. in Lemans Lobby at Saint Mary's. For more information call Kent Weldon at 1228 or Andy Titterton at 271-9082. 
-The Observer 

The An Tostal Jim E. Brogan Distinguished Spirit Award winner is the group "Brotherhood of the Druids." A member of that group should contact Ellen Bonfiglio at 2152. -The Observer 
An Irish Guard help session will be conducted on Thursday at 4:15p.m. on Green Field. All those interested in trying out next fall should attend. If anyone interested missed the first meeting, be sure to attend this one. If you have questions, call Tom Lauer at 1850, or call the Band Office. -The Observer 
Big Brothers and Big Sisters for transfer students are needed. Interested students should contact their hall presi­dents. Knott and Siegfried residents should leave a note in the transfer orientation mailbox in the student govern­ment office. -The Observer 
Ca11,1pus Entertainment will be holding a 1988-89 committee meeting Thursday at 9 p.m. in the SUB office. Chairpersons for next year's events will be selected. 
S~ni~rswho have received Senior Scholarship Fund ap­phcabons should only return them if they intend to donate their room deposit money. Please check the "Yes" box.­
The Observer 
The Italian Club will have a very short meeting in the social space in the basement of Pangborn Hall today at 6 p.m. to choose officers for next year. -The Observer 
Rev. Stanley J aki, professor of physics at Seton Hall University and 1987 recipient of the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, will give a lecture entitled "St. Thomas and the Universe" today at 4 p.m. in the Hayes­Healy auditorium. -The Observe.r 

Deaign Editor . . .. . . . . . . . . . ... Rob Luxem Accent Copy Editor......... Susan Buckley Design Assi•tant . . . . . .. . . Annette Rowland Accent Layout....... . . . . .. .. . . .. Kathy Gliwa Type•etters .. .. .. .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . Smed Laboe Typi8t .................................. Will Zamer ...................................... John Rossmiller ND Day Editor ................ Carrie McCall News Editor........................ Liz Panzica SMC Day Editor ..................... Liz Ryan Copy Editor ...................... Michelle Dall Photographer......................... Bob Jones Sports Copy Editor........ Steve Megargee Sports Wednesday .............. Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Copy Editor ............ Syl Flood ......................................... Theresa Kelly 
Tile C.... (USPS S99 2..QIO) ia publilhed Monday throuah Friday aoept dllrilll-ed vacation periods. Tile o.--ia published by the students of the University of Notre DuDe aDd Saint Mary's Colleae. Sublcriplioas may be purcbu­ed for SolO J11r )leU ($2.5 per-)by writiql'lle ~. P.O. Box Q, Notre o-e, IIIIHa.. 46.5.56. 
Tile C.... il a -ber of Tile •'-•l:t•IMI r-. All reproduction ripts arc
..--. 

Patience difficult skill to learn for some 
"Patience is a virtue" is an annoying adage. I feel that all calm people who cheerfully remind you of this as you wait in the tenth end­less line of the day should be banned from campus. OK-so maybe I wouldn't have many friends left. I'll admit that I'm an extremely impatient person, but I just can't help it. 
You all know the impatient type: that person who checks his watch every five minutes during a boring class, sighs and taps his foot in ex­asperation while waiting in line and always walks a few steps ahead of the pack when cross­ing campus. 
Like a serious addiction, these people cannot control their restless behavior. That is why I propose a new campus organization, similar to Alcoholics Anonymous, called "lA" (Impatience Anonymous) to help people deal with their frustrations about waiting. 
Let's face it-this is not the ideal campus for victims of chronic impatience to live. Students must wait in line to eat meals, to checkmark classes, to get into the library during finals, to get beer at parties, to buy football tickets and even to take a shower. Crowds confront you almost anywhere you go. 
What goes through a helplessly impatient per­son's mind in one of these everyday situations? Well, for most of these stressed-out students, dinner in the North Dining Hall is a nightmarish buy my own box of Captain Crunch! ! " ordeal. Another infuriating situation for impatient 
First, the student approaches the dining hall students is checkmarking classes. Although I entrance only to find the lines extending out-have yet to experience this nail biting event for side. Once he finally makes it inside the double myself, I am told that impatient people should doors, he tries to outsmart the system by bring along paper bags in case they begin to switching to the other, seemingly shorter, line. hyperventilate. Immediately after the person transfers, If the mention of the word "checkmark" however, the other line inevitably begins to makes you cringe in horror, just remember that move faster. He just can't win. impatient students have an option. They can 
During this long wait is when the lA support arrive many hours before the scheduled time group must try to divert the impatient person's to checkmark and be bored and anxious with attention. I suggest simple games such as relatively few people around. The other option counting to 10,000, listing all 666 teams in the is to arrive when the lines are supposed to form bookstore tournament or counting all the guys and be bored and anxious while surrounded by wearing baseball caps in the dining hall. huge crowds of frantic, confused classmates. 
When you have finished playing all of these Although waiting for hours seems hopelessly educational games, continue to keep morale boring, the lA support group would have a few high by offering encouraging comments such suggestions for those in line. The restless stu­as, "Look, you can almost see the stack of dent could use the extra time to talk with trays," or "Just think, we made it far enough friends, read an epic novel or (as a last resort) to see all of the colors in the tri-colored pasta." start to study for finals. 
Friends of Impatience Anonymous candi-
Besides the length of the line, the evening dates have a long battle ahead of them. My 
menu is also a crucial factor in determining friends will be the first to agree that impatient 
the victim's impatience level. For a decent people are often difficult to deal with. The best 
meal, the student will usually overlook the long advice that I can give you when your restless 
wait. If he finds the food inedible, however, be friend starts to annoy you by checking his watch 
prepared for such outbursts as, "I waited in and tapping his foot is to remember that pa­
line for forty minutes just to get ~ereal? ! It tience is a virtue. Oops! 


ATTEtJTION 1st Time Buyers & College Students 
NISSAN is offering a 1st Time Buyers' Program for New or Used Cars & Trucks. If you are gradu.ating or have a job lined up, you qualify for a new car or truck. Call or Come see 
Kevin O'Reilly at CORAL NISSAN-1 mile north of campus on US31. PH. 277-5800 
Bring in ad and after best deal receive $100 cash 1n pocket. 
-

Wednesday, April 27, 1988 The Observer page 3 
El Salvador visit prompts awareness 
L YNSEY R STRAND a guerrilla," said Stroup. and social strife after their Mooney warned, though, the oligarchy have the moneyY • "They took Juan in, recent Holy Week visit. Father ...Anything we can. do to help. a at their disposal to maintain Staff Reporter blindfolded and tied him and Edward Malloy personally particular people IS a bandaid the repression, but not in­
Editor's note: This is the first story in a three-part series of a Notre Dame group's recent trip to El Salvador and their call for international attention to the country's political and social strife. 

"We heard the testimony of Juan. He was just released from capture by the security forces," recounted Dan Stroup, a Notre Dame senior who visited El Salvador during the past Holy Week. 
"As he was coming back from teaching catechism to I children, members of the Na­tional Guard stopped him on a bus and accused him of being offered him no lawyer. Th~y in­terrogated him for 48 hours, threatened his life and family. They promised to give Juan safety and money if he told them the truth about being a communist or an informant" he continued. ' 
"When Juan did not, they took his snirt off, put him tied up in a bag, stuffed him in a 2'x4'x1' cell which was full of human excr~ment. 
"Juan was finally set free after a group of internationals demanded his release in front of the First Battalion. Before he was released, he had to sign a document saying that he was grateful for his treatment. The international attention helped to release him," he said. 
A Notre Dame group of 10 are calling for international atten­tion to El Salvador's political 
Polish workers strike 
/ 

over pay, inflation 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland Hundreds of steelworkers in southern Poland went on strike for more pay Tuesday as laborers' frustrations over rising inflation boiled over for the second time in two days. 
Other workers threatened a walkout at a heavy machinery plant to protest the firing of two leaders of the independent Solidarity trade union for leading a protest rally. 
On Monday, a strike by 2,800 transit workers in the western city of Bydgoszcz shut down buses and trams for 11 hours, forcing provincial officials to boost hourly wages by 60 per­cent. 
The strikes appeared to be the biggest labor actions since the 1981 martial-law crack­down suppressed Solidarity, which remains banned, al­though its leadership is still ac­tive. 
A wave of strikes in 1980 gave rise to Solidarity. Strikes over higher prices have a long tradi­tion in postwar Poland and caused government shakeups in 1956, 1970 and 1980. 
Prices have climbed 42 per­cent in the first three months of 1988, the government says, mainly the result of an eco­nomic reform designed to make prices more realistic and reduce subsidies for consumer staples like bread and milk. 
But the planned inflation has resulted in demands for pay in­creases that are outstripping projections, prompting warn­ings from leaders of the communist government that managers should grant only raises that are economically justified. 
The Observer I Bob Jones 

Senior Diane Fitzgibbon, former Student Body Vice WVFI MomentTuesday afternoon at Fieldhouse Mall. President Laurie Bink, Student Body President Tom The event featured progressive music interspersed Doyle and Chuck Lennon, executive director of the with interviews with Notre Dame notables. 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS TUESDAY, MAY 3rd THRU SUNDAY, MAY 8th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND TABLE WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 3rd THRU MAY 8th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 1OOibs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

funded the group of students, administrators and clergy with his "seed money," said Stroup. 
In the country's capitol of San Salvador, the group joined Erica Dahl-Bredine, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate who works in a lay association with refugees. She was one of the key people who helped win Juan's release by writing to authorities and putting ads of the "disappeared" person in the newspaper. 
Claiming how easy it is for Americans to help, Associate Professor of Law Carol Mooney noted, "In an air-conditioned office, I can pick up the tele­phone, take my charge card and send a telegram" to call for an El Salvadoran's release from the security forces. 

. 

Radio days 
on a situation which needs an overall cure. Therefore, the most important part of our mis­sion is to talk about what we saw and let .the rest of ~he :-vo~ld have some Idea what life IS like in El Salvador." 
Since their return, the group is. holding many lectures and shdeshows at Notre Dame all:d urging people to contact the?' congressmen about the poor s plight in El Salvador. All mem­bers ~enounc~ the u:.s. govern­ment s foreign aid to the country, which Mooney quoted at $608 million last year, adding that ~I Salv~d?r's yearly budget IS $585 milhon per year. 
Out of El Salvador's popula­tion of five million, roughly 10 percent own 90 percent of the country's wealth, said Kop­cynski, adding that "no doubt definitely." 
Kopcynski and her fellow members link the Reagan ad­ministration's strong support of Notre Dame graduate Pres­ident Napolean Duarte's gov­ernment in military aid to the country's human rights abuses by its security forces. In 1983, El Salvador's right-wing death squads were responsible for 1,000 deaths, sources say. 
"It's always such a politically-charged situation," said Associate Director of Public Relations Michael Gar­vey. "I think there are lots of people who innocently, and I think rather naively, assume that to be in touch with poor people in Latin America means to be for some Communist uprising. It's just not." 

Alumni Association, participate in 
Violence 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Violence that broke out follow­ing the Little 500 bicycle race at Indiana University last weekend will spark some changes in law enforcement practices during next year's festival, Police Chief Steve Sharp says. 
One police officer was in­jured, and more than 70 people were arrested in what officials 
the first annual 
breaks out at race 
described as a riot early Sun­day morning at Varsity Villa apartments on the city's north side. 
"It is indeed regrettable from the department's stand­point that several hundred per­sons using the cloak of dark­ness attempted to engage in activities that injured others and destroyed property,'' Sharp said Monday in a news release. "It is imperative that the participants themselves work to prevent such a future occurrence." 
Those arrested were taken to the Monroe County Jail on charges including criminal mischief, drunkenness, illegal consumption of alcohol, posses­sion of marijuana and interfer­ing with police. 
Sharp said his department has been fairly lenient in the past in allowing students and others to enjoy the Little 500 weekend. 



M W 12-8 T T 12:3Q-8:30 


--~ --------~---------~-~-----------..... 
page4 The Observer Wednesday, April 27, 1988 
Faculty discusses alcohol use 
By MAURA KRAUSE 
News Staff 
Alcohol use and misuse among young adults was dis­cussed at an alcohol sympo­sium attended by faculty and staff of various universities from all over the country. 
The conference was to bring "major theorists" together to try to "reach a level of conver­gence of the many differing opinions," said David Dan­nison, director of alcohol and drug education. 
At the conference, "Many people of vastly differing theories met to find a common ground," said Dannison. 
The main purpose of the con­ference was to determine "the place of the teacher and to jus­tify our involvement in stu­dents lives," said Dannison. Ways in which to intervene before students need help were discussed. 
Alcoholism may be genetically linked 
Associated Press 
Children of alcoholics may be genetically predisposed to the affliction, but too few know about the extra risk, a re­searcher said in a conference at Notre Dame. 
Dr. James Smith of Shick­Shadele Hospital in Seattle said a New York study showed only one in 20 children of alcoholics realized a tendency to al­coholism may be inherited. 
"The lack of knowledge may still further increase their risk," Smith told a Notre Dame audience during a two-day con­ference on alcohol use and misuse by young adults. 
Research indicates children of alcoholics who were not aware of the genetic link drank seven times as much as children who were aware, he said. 
U.S. ships can't counter all Iran's attacks says Navy's top admiral 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -American warships cannot be expected to counter every Iranian attack on merchant ships in the Per­sian Gulf, despite last week's demonstration of U.S. military prowess, the Navy's top admi­ral said Tuesday. 
"I can offer the observation of a lot of personal pride and satisfaction in the way they did their jobs," said Adm. Carlisle 
A.H. Trost, the chief of naval operations, referring to fight-
HPC 
continued from page 1 

damage. It is a traumatic ex­perience for everyone in­volved, and Sauceda's parents are asking for everyone's prayers, Rodgers said. 
Turning to money matters, next year's HPC budget will be $29,200, "a lot of money to play with," according to co­chairman Michelle LaRose. Because of the size of next year's HPC allowance, LaRose requested detailed budget reports from the hall presi­dents for next year. The reports are to include 1987-88 expendi-
Dannison stressed, "Whet­her or not a person is alcoholic is irrelevant; an alcohol prob­lem does not necessarily con­stitute alcoholism." 
The conference, unrelated to the task force report, hosted 11 speakers. The two key speakers were Bruce Donovan, professor of classics at Brown University and Jean Kinney of Dartmouth University Medical School. 
Professor Brown spoke on the necessity of developing a "meaningful policy, though it is notoriously difficult to con­trive." 
Although universities "do not want to threaten their appli­cant pool," developing a useful alcohol policy is possible, said Donovan. 
Jean Kinney spoke on creat­ing a "model comprehensive alcohol program for univer­sities." "Many see alcohol problems as bad manners and say our kids need to just shape 
Researchers have uncovered evidence of the link between ge­netics and alcoholism only in recent decades, he said. 
"Not every child born of an alcoholic parent will become an alcoholic, but it's a lot more likely to happen," he said. 
Studies of identical twins with an alcoholic parent show that, if one twin has an al­coholic drinking pattern, the other twin will almost certainly exhibit the same pattern, he said. 
Even children separated from alcoholic parents in in­fancy run a greater risk, he said. Those children are four times more likely to become problem drinkers than the children of non-alcoholics. 
"In the case where the child 
ing April 18 that saw six Iranian vessels crippled or sunk and no U.S. ships hit. 
"But if someone wants to make an iron-clad guarantee that we will counter any (Iranian) attack, I'd say, first of all, that such a guarantee would be patently impossible, because you cannot foreclose the possibility of attack by those large numbers of small craft that are always present over there," Trost said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
tures, recent physical improve­ments in the dorms and an itemized list of what the dorm would like to purchase next year. 
Finally, freshmen arriving on campus in August may have an easier time identifying the dorms and academic buildings. Freshman Orientation Public Relations Commissioner Karen Flaherty asked the HPC for money to purchase uniform signs for every dorm and aca­demic building. The signs .will cost $10 each and are supposed to last for a few years, accor­ding to Flaherty. Provided they are not stolen, "They should be of non-alcoholics is adopted by an alcoholic family, the child is no more likely to develop al­coholism than if he had been raised in his original home," he said. 
Smith said universities and professional schools, such as medicine, law and business schools, should teach their stu­dents more about alcohol and alcoholism. 
"I believe it should be impossible for students to graduate from a professional training school without a thor­ough knowledge of al­coholism," he said. "To me, it's bizarre that it's possible to graduate from many medical schools without knowing really up," said Kinney, when speak­ing on the many myths associ­ated with drinking among young adults. 
anything  about  the  third­ 
leading  killer  in  the  U.S.  - 
alcohol."  

Some myths Kinney stated were, "Heavy drinking is just a stage, and alcohol problems in adolescence, by definition, are just adjustment prob­lems." Kinney stressed this is not true, as many students en­ter college with alcohol prob­lems. 
Kinney cited several statis­tics in her speech. "The age group 18-24 is the only group with a declining life expec­tancy. More people in this age group die each year by either accidents, suicide or homicide, and alcohol can be key in all three, " said Kinney. Also, Kin­ney cited the statistic that, "In a typical week, 57 percent of college students consume 0-6 drinks." 
The symposium was held in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation on Monday and Tues­day. 
The 58-year-old Trost, the Navy's uniformed leader for al­most two years, displayed animation and pique when dis­cussing recent budget actions by Congress that he said would cut into readiness. 
"Readiness is a hard thing to measure," he said. "You don't put a dollar figure on readi­ness, generally, because no one can appreciate that. 
"What they appreciate is the fact that, in last week's engage­ments, for example, every­thing went right for our guys · and wrong for the other guy. 
a permanent investment," said Flaherty. "Hopefully, they won't disappear." 
--~CHIMES--­
THE ST. MARY'S LITERARY MAGAZINE WILL BE DISTRIBUTED ) ON CAMPUS MONDAYI MAY 2. 
1) 
-

-
The campus appears deserted as students trudge to the library and bury themselves in their books to prepare for upcoming finals. 
u.s.· economy growing in first three months of year 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Strong spending by American consu­mers helped the economy grow at a healthy 2.3 percent annual rate during the first three months of 1988, the government said Tuesday, dispelling fear of any lingering ill effects from the October stock market crash. 
The Commerce Department, in its first look at overall eco­nomic peformance this year, 
COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
For copies before work or after hours, depend on Kinko's, the copy center. 

• 
Copies • Office Supplies 

• 
Binding • Floppy Disks 


said consumer spending, the biggest surge in business in­vestment in more than four years and growing exports kept the gross national product rising, despite. declines in gov­ernment spending and housing construction. 
Early this year, economists had feared the evaporation of $500 billion in wealth during the Oct. 19 stock market crash would scare consumers and cause a drastic slowdown, or even a recession. 
• Convenient Hours 
18187 State Rd. 23 South Bend, IN (219) 271-0398 


~-~-------~ 
Wednesday, April 27, 1988 The Observer 
page 5 



~  ,, __;.  - --­ _--.. --­ ----;'.  
A room with a view  
This recently completed room  in Siegfried Hall fea­ a built-in bookshelf and a heater conveniently located  
tures all the modern conveniences: cinder block walls,  under the bay window overlooking the mod quad.  

Senate subpoenas North's diaries for drug investigation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 16-1 Tuesday to subpoena the private working diaries of Lt. Col. Oliver North in its con­tinuing investigation of inter­national drug smuggling. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., expressed concern that the originals of the North diaries have never been turned over to government authorities in un­censored form but remain in the hands of North and his at­torney, Brendan Sullivan. 
The subpoena calls for North and Sullivan to produce 2,848 pages of handwritten diary notes in their entirety and with no deletions. 
The notes cover the period from September 1984 to No­vember 1986, when North was fired from his position on the National Security Council in the Iran-Contra arms and money furor. 
A version of the North diary already has been made avail-
Hey Students! 
The semester is almost over! Time to start thinking about how you are going to get your stuff home. RYDER TRUCK RENTAL is running a special on all size trucks. Rent a truck, take a couple of friends home with you, and split the cost. Like to Rock and Roll when you drive home across the country? Several models of our trucks now offer cassette players. Why listen to a static AM radio the whole way home. It's a long journey, you might as well make it as comfortable as possible. We can guarantee you a 1985 or newer vehicle with an AM-FM radio, power steering, power brakes. Call the following number for your 
able to the congressional Iran-Contra committees, but Kerry said North and Sullivan heavily censored 1,269 pages with black ink. 
Speaking of the North diaries, Kerry told the commit­tee, "I'm not asserting that there's a smoking gun or some­thing hidden or that some ofthe redactions (deletions) are not appropriate. My assertion is that, given what has already been declassified, I don't know how we can proceed with our investigation without being able to see all of it. 
"The issue is one of investi­gation," Kerry said. "Should we have the right to look at these classified documents, a work product of a government employee?" 
Seventy-four pages of North's notes were released Tuesday. Often interspersed in notations about logistics of the war effort of the Nicaraguan Contra rebels are numerous references to drugs, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Customs Service, Panamanian ruler Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and CIA agents. 
But Kerry complained that most such references are preceeded or followed with large blacked-out sections. 
One note, dated June 27, 1984, says, "Drug Case -DEA prog­ress on combatting cocaine," and refers to possible Colom­bian negotiations to move drug refining to Nicaragua. 
An entry from the previous month notes that CIA Latin American chief Duane Clar­ridge had called and indicated that "(name deleted) contact indicates that Gustavo is in­volved with drugs." It is un­clear to whom "Gustavo" refers. 
Kerry has made it clear he believes there was a connection between drug running and ef­forts to supply and arm the Contras. Some testimony before his subcommittee on narcotics and terrorism has focused on that possibility. 
r---------~----~--~ 
Correction 
Due to an editing error, names were listed incorrectly in Tuesday's Ugly Man on Campus story. Phil Marzolf won the fundraising contest, and Mike "Coma" Meyer came in second place. Michele Feick was a co-organizer of the event. 
Crew pumps toxin from submarine 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK, Va. -Sailors boarded the disabled sub­marine USS Bonefish drifting off the Florida coast Tuesday and began testing and pumping out what they said appeared to be toxic gases inside, a Navy spokesman said. 
Earlier Tuesday, 19 of the 22 sailors injured in Sunday's ex­plosions and fire were dis­charged from a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. 
The five-man boarding crew planned to continue its work throughout the night before any effort was made to enter the submarine, said Lt. Fred Hen­ney, a spokesman for the At­lantic Fleet in Norfolk. 
"Initial reports indicate the air contained high concentra­tions of toxic gases," Henney said. He said he could not iden­tify the gas. 
"They're pumping air through the ship to get the toxic gases to leave," he said. 
The Bonefish was submerged when the explosions and fire began Sunday during a training exercise. The crew was able to get it to the surface, and the skipper ordered it evacuated 
Student studies public restroom lines 
Associated Press 
ITHACA, N.Y. -Ever wonder why it seems men are always waiting for women to return from the restroom in public places? 
It's because the standard 50­50 ratio between men's and wo­men's toilet facilities is not fair, according to a Cornell Uni­versity undergraduate who studied the situation at high­way rest stops for the Washing­ton Department of Transporta­tion. 
A more equitable arrange­ment would be a 60-40 ratio of women's to men's stalls, said Anh Tran, a sophomore who 
Barefoot girl electrocuted by exposed 480·volt wire 
Associated Press center. It was badly rewired 
and set the grating alive with 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 480 volts, said police and a -A teenager walking barefoot Florida Power and Light along a busy street was spokesman. electrocuted when she stepped Had the victim been wearing on a steel plate that covered shoes, she probably would have wiring for a light post, aut-been insulated from the cur­horities said. rent, said FPL spokesman Don 
Sunday morning's accident Ostberg. that killed 17-year-old Cefkin said city workers in­Veronika Beatriz Feria "was vestigating the accident told would like to work in the hotel industry, studying operations research at the Ivy League school. 
The 20-year-old was one of two people hired by the Wash­ington department to prowl restrooms along the state's highways to see why more wo­men were standing in line than men. 
William Carr, Tran's super­visor in Washington, said the agency was trying to document the long-time complaints of wo­men having to wait to use the facilities. The agency is now updating its criteria for rest stop design. 
because of heavy smoke and toxic fumes. 
The frigate USS Carr and the aircraft carrier John F. Ken­nedy, both of which were on routine exercises with the Bonefish, evacuated 89 of the 92 crew members. 
The boarding crew did not en­ter the sub and had no report of the condition inside the ves­sel and nothing further on the three missing sailors. 
Earlier Tuesday, Navy sal­vage crews briefly boarded the Bonefish to close an open hatch and prevent water from getting in the vessel, but high winds and rough seas prevented them from beginning testing. 
With winds of 21 knots, seas were running six to eight feet and washing over the deck, Henney said. 
"The decision was to close the hatch to eliminate the chance of water getting in," Henney said. 
A civilian submarine expert said the explosions and fire that disabled the diesel-electric submarine were typical of such pre-nuclear subs. 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 27, 1988
page 6 
An ''interview'' with the President 
ANNOUNCER: The following is a their purpose. And so, no, I don't agree free, entirely fictional political inter­with using them against South Africa. view between Mr. Kevin Smant and But to hear all those excited boys and President Ronald Reagan. It is partly girls on college campuses, you'd think a product of what Mr. Smant wishes J was burning crosses on the White the president would say, and partly House lawn. Besides, nobody's con­what he feels the president would in vinced me that those fellows at the ANC fact say, should such an encounter ever will bring anybody freedom. In past take place. And now, without any fur­years, folks told me that Mao, then ther ado, I turn to that eminent his­Castro, then Ho Chi Minh, and finally torian, Mr. Smant. that guy Ortega would bring their people "freedom." But it never hap­
Kevin Smant pened. K.S.: Speaking of Mr. Ortega, what about Central America? 
guest column 
R.R.: Oh, yes, I forgot that, didn't I? Well, shucks...my opponents are hard K.S.: Thank you very much. Mr. to figure out. They want me to meddle President, it's a real honor for me to in South Africa, but they yell at me for be talking to you. I've been writing intervening in Nicaragua. They seem about politics for some time now, to think it's OK to intervene in the af­and... fairs of Honduras because of Noriega, R.R.: Oh, I know, Kevin. I've fol­but, again, they sure denounce me for lowed your career. I loved your piece "interfering" in Nicaragua. Do they on Gorbachev. really ignore me when I point out San­K.S.: Wow! Thanks! But I thought dinista abuses of human rights, or their Larry Speakes said you only read the gun-running to El Salvador? You know, comics? if anything, I think I was too easygoing 
R.R.: Well, I do read them--got to get on this issue. I should have asked for your laughs somewhere, anywhere, in more aid to the Contras, enough to give my job. But I read serious stuff too. Do them a real chance to win. you know I was one of the early sub­K.S.: You also take a lot of flak for scribers to Bill Buckley's National your policies supposedly favoring only Review back in the '50s? Some of those the wealthy, and discriminating ivory-tower fellows think I'm kind of against minorities. I can tell by your dense. But then, they didn't become grin that you're not morally ashamed. president, either. I did. Can you explain why? 
K.S.: Well put. But back to that Gor­bachev piece. As you remember, I R.R.: Well, again, I feel my critics criticized you for signing the new INF are...well...unfair, at least. As for treaty. Any reaction? blacks, why, my father drilled into me 
R.R.: Well, I appreciate your con­at an early age that prejudice was cern. And I really didn't mean it when wrong. Do you know that once he I said conservatives feel war is inevi­wouldn't let us stay in a hotel because table. But I really feel our verification the manager wouldn't serve blacks or procedures will ensure the Soviets' Jews? But what I want, Kevin, is a compliance--otherwise I wouldn't have colorblind society--one that doesn't signed it. And we're eliminating so base anything on the color of your skin­many missiles! Sure, Nancy wants me -after all, if it's wrong to discriminate to have a place in history. But so do I. against someone because he's black, And I don't like it when people call me isn't is also wrong to do it if he's white? a warmonger. Now, I know your next So, yes, I oppose so-called "affirmative complaint--that the Soviets have an action" programs. And, I must say, edge now in conventional forces in when you told me about Notre Dame's Europe. But believe me--we can still "goals" for recruiting black students, hold our own. I became mighty uneasy. Not because K.S.: Hmmin...Sorry, I'm still not I'm anti-black. But because I don't like convinced. But on to the next question. quotas. As to this "favoring the rich" I can speak from my experience at stuff, well.. .let me tell them someth­Notre Dame that your policies regard­ing Bill Buckley taught me (maybe all ing Central America receive a lot of our critics should get a subscription to heat. How do you respond to that? National Review, huh? They might R.R.: Well, it's interesting that you learn something). Inequality in in­mention that. You know, I've lived a comes is not in itself bad. The key is, long time. And never have I seen eco­are the average incomes of all major 
nomic  sanctions  really  accomplish  groups in America going up? In my ad­ 
poonesbury  
M!NOIFI JOIN YO{}, NICOL.&~  I'M 50 6/..AO Y()(J MA/)f; ITBAO< FO!< 7HG !?BJNION. I R&AU..Y M/55GI/ YOU.  
I  ·~~"\;"..... ,/  M&,7DO,  
MIKG.  
I  

ministration, they are--and that in­cludes the average incomes of blacks 
(don't wait for Jesse Jackson to tell you that). So who cares if that rich guy is farther away from you in take-home pay? The key is, are you yourself get­ting tnore. 
K.S. : A final question. Why has the overall level of spending gone up in your administration? 
R.R.: I was afraid you'd ask that. Look, you fellows may have misun­derstood me. Remember, I first voted in 1932--for a fellow named Roosevelt. I voted for him three more times. I never meant to undo his New Deal--I just wanted to scale things back to where I felt they belong. I guess I don't have the temperament to lead a revolution--and let me tell you, a revo­lution is what it would take to really undo all these wasteful programs. But I don't have the heart. 
"K.S.: Well, thank you for your time, Mr. President. I have my differences with you--but I also admire and respect you, and I want you to know that. 
R.R.: Well, thanks. By the way ...do you have extra copies of your columns? Maybe I'll use them in my speeches. 
K.S.: Now the readers know I'm making this up. Thanks a lot! R.R.: Sorry. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in the History Department 
P.O. Box Q 
GSU responds to Task Force 
Dear Editor: 
In a letter published in your April 22 issue, Richard Beatty noted that "no forum for gathering response from graduate students (to the Task Force reports) was announced." In its April meeting, however, the Graduate Stu­dent Union organized a group of volun­teers from among the graduate departmental representatives present to respond formally to the Task Force reports from the graduate student per­spective. These responses will be sent to the appropriate persons and to Fa­ther Malloy's office. 
We take this opportunity to remind graduate students that the GSU is com­mitted to the representation of graduate concerns at Notre Dame. We therefore strongly urge all graduate students to contact any of the new GSU officers or their respective departmen­tal representatives about any problems affecting our special interests so that we may take the appropriate steps to remedy them. 
Victor J. Krebs President The Graduate Student Union April 24, 1986 
Can drive to he I p needy students 
Dear Editor: 
As a member of the Prayer Group that meets in the Log Chapel, I and others were delighted to hear that a group of students had really gotten the food leftovers from the dining halls to feed the hungry. The director of Hope Rescue Mission expressed his concern to me that somehow this should con­tinue through the summer. Hunger does not cease. I congratulate the students on the initiative. 
So, I would like to offer another chal­lenge to any group of students who would be willing to take it up. If every student on campus, not to say staff and faculty, would drink one can of pop from now to the end of school, and save the can for recycling, enough money could be raised in that month or so to pay for the tuition and expenses of a couple I know who want to come from India to study at Notre Dame for a year. These people would be able to go back to their own country in a year to spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and their training at Notre Dame would equip them for it. Anyone willing to take up the challenge? 
Robert P. Bollman M.A., M.Div. Off-campus April 24, 1988 
The O~IVer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Danie du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Trudeau 
J.J. ANOI ARE PRACTI­CAll-Y {}/VOPCIJ[). 
I 
a!HOA.F!l.5T­FORIAIARI/ 
CITY. 
I 
Quote of the Day 
"In every job that must be done, there is an element of fun. You find the fun and 'snap!' the job's a game!'' 
Mary Poppins 
Editoral Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief ........................ ............. Chris Murphy Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly  Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen  
The ObseiVer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space  News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele  Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager ...................... Bernadene Shilts Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager ........................ Marga Bruns  
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on  Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran  

campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Founded November 3,1966 

-----~~~~~~~-----~-~-----------~--~-~-----------------------------------~--­
Accent
Wednesday, April 27, 1988 page 7 
The year's best in television 
E
xpectations were high last September when the three major networks unveiled their lineups for the new television season. During the past eight months, viewers have laughed, cried, applauded and "booed" their way through the various 
Joe Bucolo 
To be continued... 
networks' contenders. Now, at the end of a most intriguing season, It is only fitting to honor those shows which stood out as extraordinary entertain­ment. 
Best New Comedy: All three networks presented a great deal of new television com­edies. Some were good, but even more were bad. This season saw the demise of "The Charmlngs," "Sledgehammer" and "My Sister Sam." While there were a few noteworthy comedies, one stands out above the rest: ABC's 'The Wonder Years." Fresh, innovat­Ive and full of talented actors, "The Wonder Years" deserves an Emmy Award. 
Best New Drama: The com­petition, In this category was a little more rigorous. "Tour of 
WVFI 640 a.m. 
TOPTEH 
1. "If I Should Fall From Grace With God" 
The Pogues ~ 
2. "Wet Blanket" 

I 
\ The Chills 
3. "Sweet Nothings" 
Doc & The Pods 
4. "Suede Head" 
Morrissey 
5. "She's Going Through My Head" 
Material Issue 
6. "Booby Trap" 
The Dickies 
7. "House We Used To Live In" 
The Smithereens 
8. "Chinese Bones" 
Robyn Hitchcock 
9. "Blood Money" 
The Church 

10. ''The Golden Calf" 
Prefab Sprout 

Duty" and "Heartbeat" are ex­cellent shows; however, NBC's 
':A Year in the Life" presents 
itself with a realism evident in no other show. Its characters and situations are effervescent and believable. "A Year in the Life" is worth living. 


Best (New) Dramedy: 
The dramedy format Itself is brand new. The contenders in this gro\Jp were "Hooper­man," "The 'Slap' Maxwell Story," "Frank's Place" and, the winner, ABC's "thirtysometh­Ing. " "thirtysomething" pro­vides an accurate and vivid ac­count of the (often humorous) lives of 1988's yuppies. The show will probably outlive the noble breed Itself. 
Most Improved Show: Too often shows start out strong, but, as the seasons progress, become redundant and flat. It's rare to find a show that im­proves with its age. Thus, the honor of "winning" in this cate­gory is probably more pres­tigious than the rest. While the plots on "Dynasty" this season were the show's best ever and received praise from quite a few critics, ABC's "Mr. Bel­vedere" deserves this honor even more. After almost being cancelled, "Mr. Belvedere" bounced back to gain higher ratings and give "Dallas" and 
CfiH YOU READ? 
E OBSERVER IS LOOKI"G FOR Calvin and Hobbes 

"Miami Vice" some hefty com­petition. While "Family Ties" got "old," "The Golden Girls" became predictable, and "The Cosby Show'' seemed boring, "Mr. Belvedere" grew wittier and funnier. The improved per­formances by the cast and the refreshing new plots made the show this season's Best Com­edy. 
Best Prime Time Soap: While some say this TV format is about to die, others argue that only the current prime time soaps will die; the format, Itself, will be revived by new shows. This year's best prime time soap had no competition from the other sudsy shows. While "Dallas," "Dynasty" and "Falcon Crest" floundered to 
maintain respect, "f{nots Lan­ding." the season's best, flourished. Its realistic portrayal of characters and plots and its 

offers choice fare 
CHRIS DONNELLY MATI GALLAGHER accent writers 

I
t was Thursday night. The dining hall was serving mush­room stroganoff. These two intrepid reporters, charge ac­count in hand, felt it our privilege, nay, our duty to ven­ture out to South Bend in a quest for fine dining. 
We selected the East Bank Emporium, mainly because: a) we knew where it was, b) they have a good reputation for fine dining and c) they take plastic. 
We came back withered shells of ourselves but with satisfied palates. 
The Emporium's ambiance is a cross between a fern-bar and 
an old warehouse. The "old" 
wood trim clashes with the 
tacky plastic tablecloths and 
the bread knife that would have 
a hard time with butter--warm 
butter. 
The food, however, was ex­
cellent (remember, they take 
plastic--cards and tablecloths-­
an added bonus). 
We started with a "Light Touch." Granted, the "Skinny Dippers" ($.3.45) were tempting (potato skins with bacon and cheese--plus a heck of a name), but the baked brie with almonds ($4.25) won out. (If you don't like almonds, we discovered that they're easy to eat around.) Complemented by the hot french bread, the baked brle was the beginning of a cheese fest to end all cheese fests. 
The time came to choose the entree. The menu is limited, but compared to our own 
mass appeal to young viewers made it a blockbuster op­ponent of NBC's "L.A. Law." (Fear not, "L.A. Law'' fans, there will be good news for you in a minute.) As long as this show keeps its audience in knots, the prime time soap will remain alive and well. 
Best Drama: When it first began, "Hill Street Blues" im­mediately became a cult drama. Millions tuned in week after week and, while the show was never a ratings smash, it lasted until last year. Another drama has emerged to fill "Hill Street's" shoes. That show, TV's best drama of 1988, is "L.A Law," a compelling drama about very real Los An­geles lawyers. This show dares to speak now and never holds· Its peace. It's what drama should be. 
A Look Ahead: The networks 
three-entree dining halls, It was more than adequate. 
We chose to sample the sauteed chicken breast ($8.95) and the 8 oz. prime rib ($9.95). Both entrees came with a choice of veggie and soup du jour or a "table side salad presentation"--and what a presentation It was. 
First, the cucumber. The cucumber chunks would please the most discriminating of cucumber devotees, In both size and freshness. 
But wait, that's not all. The salad which came with the cucumber was excellent. It came with enough condiments to please all tastes. Especially if you like cheese. And we do like cheese. 
As soon as our salads were whisked away, the beef and chicken arrived. The beef was well prepared, but It lacked the green parsley accent that has 
1-\t>.! n\t>.T'S 5\X 5\-\0TS!
.DU~f
People interested in 
'(C>U'RE 001 Or B\1\.l..EIS!
---~~· 
1"4£ Gal '10\.l t-lO~ I '10\.l
writing book reviews 
RIJ5rlER! ,_____....., 
over the summer for nut year. If interested. please contact Beth Healy at 
239-5303. 
still have a few surprises in store for viewers during May, this season's final ratings per­iod. CBS will air the nail-biting cliffhangers of "Knots Lan­ding," "Dallas" and "Falcon Crest." On May 1, CBS will present the two hour series finale of "Magnum, p. I." during which the show will take a look at its history and bid its audi­ence adieu. NBC will show the final episode of "St. Else­where," another series going to television heaven, on May 25. 
The season has had its ups and downs, Its triumphs and its embarrassments, but, on the whole, it presented some in­triguing and innovative pro­gramming. The networks are currently discussing their lineups for next year. Hopefully they will present the high quality entertainment the public deserves. 
become standard In the Indus­try. The chicken, however, was smothered in two different cheeses and needed no gar­
nish. It was divine. 
Then there was the potato. Ah, the potato. It arrived looking simple enough, just sitting there on a small, white plate. It was soon followed by another onslaught of condi­ments (free). Needless to say the condiments included cheese, but to our pleasant surprise there were also bacon bits--real bacon bits. 

After such a pleasantly palate-pleasing feast. there was no room for dessert--but If we had ordered, the cheesecake sure looked tempting. 
All in all, it was well worth $25.95 of sombody else's money. It would have even been worth $25.95 of our own money. 
Bill Watterson 







INCWDING: 1 H.P. MUTOR, ·D.E. FILTER, SAFETY LADDER, SKIMMER, AND COMPLETE ACCESSORY KIT. 
..'L'.'~:$1399 
IISTILUTIDI IYIIUILE 
IEPUCEIIEIT lllfl LIIEII FOI 
IIIIOUID IIIOYE 1111. POOLS 

Wednesday, April 27, 1988
The Observer 
A.c.c. 
BY 
10 AM-9 PM •
W&TlllliS WITillliSNOON-6 WITlllf.IS 
2oth CENTURY $488 
RECLINER GROUP COLONIAL COCKTAIL HEX-COMMODE 
TWIN BRANCH 
FURNITURE 
SOUTHSIDE FURNITURE 
RECLINERS * BEDROOMS *DINETTES* 
FLOOR LAMPS FROM $28 TABLE LAMPS $19
FROM 
OVER 400 LAMPS 

& SQUARE-COMMODE TABLES YOUR CHDtCE 
FROM $19 

. $69 SOLID OAK, SMOKE GLASS, 
3-PC EARLY AMERICAN LIVINGROOM
BRAS TRIM END TABLES 
PILLOW-ARM, ANTRONINYLON COVERS, HARDWOOD FRAMES. SPRING EDGE CONSTRUCTION,
S79
ALL WOOD FUUY SIIRTED $595 
STARTING AT
BAR STOOLS 
"QUALITY FURNITURE AT THE BEST MUCH
$44 
PRICES EVER OFFEREDr MORE 
AD 8V SUN GRAPHICS PICTURES NOT NECESSARILY REPRESENTATIONAL • ALL SALES FINAL • EACH STORE RESPONSIBLE FOR CINN MERCHANDISE COPYRIGHT SUPER SALES OF AMERICA, INC. 1988 
-~--------~ 
Sports Wednesday 
VVednesday, Apnl27, 1988 
NBA Standings Summer Calendar Irish Baseball Box 
FINAL STANDINGS Notre Dame 5, Purdue 2
Home games in CAPS E..tem Con-c:e 
Notno Dome obrhbl 
Atlontlc Dtvlolon Baseball Pesavento ss 2 2 1 0 w L Pet. GB Skuplen 2b 3 1 2 0 y-Boston 57 25 .695 May Peltier rf 4 1 1 1 
x-New York 44 .463 19
38 7 at Valparaiso (2) Lund c 3 0 0 0 
x-Waahlng1on 44 .463 19 Hutson tb 4 0 1 1
38 8 VALPARAISO (2)
Philadelphia 38 46 .439 21 Voegel H 0 0 0 New Jersey 19 63 .232 38 9 TRI-STATE 4 
Sass cf 4 0 1 0 C.nt1111 Dlvlolon 1 0 at Illinois-Chicago Flynn dh 4 0 1 0 
y-Detroit 54 28 .659 
Coas 3b 2 1 0 0
11 at Ball State
x-Chlcago 50 32 .610 4 
Total• 30 5 7 2 
x-Atlanta 50 32 .610 4 13 MCC playoffs x-Milwaukee 42 40 .512 12 27 NCAA Regionals Purdue obrhbl x-Cieveland 42 40 .512 12 Hollis sa 4 0 0 0
June

Indiana 38 44 463 16 Gerhard 2b 4 0 0 0 
3 NCAA College World Series Erb c 4 1 1 1 WMtem Contwenc:e Galle 3b 3 0 1 1 MldwMt Dlvtolon Kitchel rf 4 0 3 0
Track 

w L Pet. GB Capp If 4 0 0 0 y-Denver 54 28 .659 May Aeschliman tb 4 0 1 0 x-Dallas 53 29 .646 1 Robertshaw cf 3 0 0 0
13 Illinois Twilight Invitational
x-Utah 47 35 .573 7 Ostrowski cl 1 0 0 0 
x-Houston 46 .561 21-22 IC4A Championships
38 8 

Barrett dh 3 1 1 0
x-San Antonio 31 51 .378 23 27-28 CENTRAL COLLEGIATE CON­
Totall 34 2 7 2 FERENCE 
Peclflc Dlvlolon Purdue 002 000 000 -2 y-LA Lakera 
62 20 .756 Notno Dame 100 010 30' -5 x-Portland 53 29 .646 9 June x-Seatrle 43 38 .531 18.5 
GWRBI -none.

1-4 NCAA Championships
Phoenix 28 54 .341 34 E -Pesavento, Galle. Aeschliman. DP -Purdue 1. Golden State 20 62 .244 42 LOB -Purdue 6, N9lre Dame 7. 28 -Kilchel(2), Flynn.LA Clippers 17 64 .210 44.5 Golf 38 -none. HR -none. S8 -none. S -none SF -none. 
y-won division May 25-28 NCAA Championships x-cllnched playoff spot Purdue lp hrorbbao Mayer L 7 4 3 2 3 2 Drum 2 3 2 0 0
National League American League 
Notno Dame Piotrowicz W, 5-3 9 7 2 1 o 7 NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
WP -none. Balk -none. H8P -Galle, Barrett (by E..t E..I w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
PIHsburgh 13 4 .765 Cleveland 15 4 .789 New York 12 6 .667 1.5 New York 14 5 .737 1 Montreal 8 9 .471 5 Boston 12 5 .706 2 Baseball (26-20)

Chicago 7 10 .412 6 Detroit 10 7 .588 4 Western Michigan 28, Notre Dame 10 Philadelphia 8 11 .353 7 Toronto 9 9 .500 5.5 
IUPUI 10, Notre Dame 5St. Louis 5 13 .278 8.5 Milwaukee 7 10 .412 7 Michigan State 13, Notre Dame 1
Baltimore 0 19 .000 15 
Michigan State 6, Notre Dame 5
w••, w..t 
Notre Dame 8, Illinois-Chicago 1 Loa Angeles 11 4 .733 
Notre Dame 8, Illinois-Chicago 1 Houston 11 7 .611 1.5 Oakland 13 7 .650 Notre Dame 5, Purdue 2 Cincinnati 11 8 .579 2 Chicago 9 9 .500 3 San Francisco 9 9 .500 3.5 Kansas City 9 9 .500 3 Lacrosse (9-3)
San Francisco 7 10 .412 5 Seattle 9 11 .450 4 Wittenberg 17, Notre Dame 4 Atlanta 3 14 .176 9 Texas 8 10 .444 4 Ohio Weslyan 17, Notre Dame 1
California 7 12 .368 5.5 Minnesota 6 11 .353 5.5 Tennla Tueadoy'o Rooulto 
Men (17-12)Cincinnati 5, Montreal 2 Tueadey'o Reoulto Kalamazoo 5, Notre Dame 4New York 13, Atlanta 4 New York 5, Kansas City 4 Wisconsin 8, Notre Dame 1
Houston 3, Ph1ladelph1a 1 
Cleveland 12, Seattle 6San Diego 1, St. Louis o Detroit 6, California 0Chicago at Loa Angeles, late Oakland 6, Toronto 1
PIHaburgh at San Francisco, late Golf
Minnesota 4, Baltimore 2 9th at Spartan Invitational
Boston at Chicago, ppd., rain Texas 3, Milwaukee 1 
NBA Playoffs ~ 
HBA PLAYOFF 

Cleveland Houston A ril28 7:00 A ril28 7:30 Chica o 
Dallas 

Utah A ril30 9:30 Portland 
Milvvaukee 

Seattle 
A ril29 8:30 Atlanta 
Denver 
Boston 
San Antonio A ril 29, 9:30 
New York Los An eles 
Geoffrey SauerfTHE OBSERVER 


Sports Lists 
RL FRANCHISES ,.RA,. RAVE NEVER WON A DIVISIONAL ,.lft.E* 
Detroit-20 years Los Angeles-20 years Calgary-15 years 
N.Y Rangers-20 years New Jersey-13 years Pittsburgh-20 years Washington-13 years Toronto-20 years Winnipeg-8 years 
* llace leagae upulloa Ia 1117·1-. 
SOURCE: Sports Features Syndicate Research 
Today Friday 
Baseball vs. INDIANA Track at Ball State Relays 
Women's tennis vs. WESTERN MIC­and Penn Relays 
HIGAN 
Lacrosse vs. MICHIGAN STATE Saturday Men's tennis at Illinois State Track at Ball State Invitational
Thursday 
and Penn Relays


Golf at Midwestern Invitational Lacrosse vs. OHIO STATE 
Irish Baseball 
--­-­- 
Through Monday BATTER Mike Rotkis, DH Craig Pavlina, C Dan Peltier, OF Greg Vogele, OF Pat Pesavento, SS  GP 15 14 44 24 45  AB R 16 5 13 2 157 40 29 10 169 57  H 7 5 60 11 59  28 3 1 16 1 5  38 0 0 1 0 2  HR 0 0 5 1 1  RBI 5 5 49 7 26  BA .438 .385 .382 .379 .349  
.  Tim Hutson, 1B Steve Skupien, 2B James Sass, OF Ed Lund, C Chris Flynn, DH Mike Moshier, 2B  45 28 44 44 41 35  153 34 64 19 133 25 110 22 127 22 110 19  53 20 39 31 35 29  7 4 12 2 11 6  1 0 1 1 0 0  12 0 0 0 5 0  49 9 11 16 28 19  .346 .313 .293 .282 .276 .264  
Pat O'Brien, C Mike Coss, 38 Jeff Knight, C David Legus, 1 B  26 40 9 7  65 15 107 23 12 1 9 0  17 25 2 1  2 2 0 0  0 0 0 0  1 0 0 0  15 8 1 1  .262 .234 .167 .111  
David Yawman, C Terry Andrysiak, OF John Flanagan, OF  17 24 13  25 55 6  2 7 2  2 4 0  0 1 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  2 3 0  .080 .073 .000  
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  45 45  1360 305 1374 274  400 410  73 66  6 18  25 39  253 241  .294 .298  
Left on  base: Notre  Dam e 351, Opponents  275  
PITCHER Erik Madsen Anthony Livorsi Kevin Chenail Mike Passilla Brian Piotrowicz Mike Harmon Tom Howard Kevin Kerns Mike Coffey Linzie Kramer Tom Shaw Zach Nagle Derk Madden  GP 15 6 11 14 13 17 8 6 9 6 5 1 2  GS 12 0 10 8 10 2 2 0 0 0 1 0 0  IP H 83.1 80 15.0 20 39.0 38 49.2 53 51.1 60 42.2 60 16.0 26 6.2 13 15.0 21 9.0 15 9.2 15 1.2 3 3.0 6  BB 22 4 16 15 19 11 6 5 6 5 9 1 5  SO 51 4 12 15 28 20 6 6 8 4 6 0 3  ER 36 7 23 30 32 29 14 6 14 10 11 2 8  W-L 7-4 1-0 4-3 4-4 4-3 3-3 0-1 0-0 1-0 1-0 0-2 0-0. 0-0  ERA 3.89 4.20 5.31 5.44 5.61 6.12 7.88 8.10 8.40 10.00 10.24 10.80 24.00  
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  45 45  45 45  342.0 410 3345.1400  124 241  163 236  222 228  25-20 20..25  5.84 5.94  
Saves: Notre Dame Opponents 0  4 (P asilla, Harmon 3),  

The Observer Typesetting Service Is Now Hiring Students Typesetters For the 1988-89 School Year Call Chris Hasbrook at 239-7471 Through Wednesday 4'27 
ENJOY COMPLETE CURRICULUM 
• IN ENGLISH, SPANISH SAINT lOUJS UNIVERSITY SLIBERAL ARTS, BUSINESS, 

MADRID CAnPUS SCIENCE, HISPANIC STUDIES 
JULY SESSION INCLUDES: 
GRADUATE PROGRAM IN HISPANIC STUDIES 
SLU is an AA/EOE A{:ply l0'1 for SlH£R & FALL! 
INFORMATION: 
TEL 1-800 325-6666 221 N GRAND BLVD 
Sr. LOUIS, MO 63103 
OR 

c! DE LA VINA,3
MI\Oqfo 28003 

... In the classroom ~ith w.ore than 700 Spdnish students. 
~--------~pa~g~e~10~--------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r_____________________________________w_e_d_ne_s_d_a_y,_A_p_ri_l2_7_,_1_9_88
I I r .Ish earned run in nine innings and been here," Murphy noted. the ball but can't make the Hoosiers. 
' gave up only seven hits, no Piotrowicz was not the only throw and someone will say 'he "I'm happy whenever we walks and struck out seven. defensive standout for the Irish should have had it,' but no one win," Murphy said, "but in
continued from page 16 

The performance was a against the Boilermakers. else would have even gotten beating a team with a quality
believed, in addition to the fact reprieve for the pitching staff, Pesavento was kept busy at near the ball." Big 10 program, I know we 
that Murphy decided to call the which has been giving up shortstop, moving all over to The win over Purdue marked really had to battle." 
pitches from the bench so the nearly six runs per contest. keep the play in the infield. the first time in the last 20 tries Irish ace Erik Madsen (7-4)
righthander could concentrate Piotrowicz upped his personal "Pesavento was great, just that the Irish have beaten a Big will probably start the game at 
on getting the batters out. mark to 5-3. great, today" Murphy praised. 10 team, and tomorrow they Jake Kline Field today. 
The tactic worked as "That's as good as he's "He fields balls that no one else will try to make it two in a row "We've got to stay up,"Piotrowocz allowed only one pitched in a game since I've could. Sometimes he'll get to a with a win over the Indiana Murphy said. 
Tile oe..w.Notre o.me office, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu­dent Centw, .:cepts claaalfled ~sing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvoug11 Friday. The oe..w. Saint IMry's office, tocat.d on the third floor of H-oo-Collge Center, aooepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttuougtt Friday. DMdllne for next-day claas.lfleds Is 3 p.m. All claas.lfleds must 
Classifieds 
be prepMI, ei!Mr In penJon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cMrw:tens par d-v­
lost: one blue nd napsack with two silver Refrigerator for $50 -like new Students: Sell your unwanted class RIDE NEEDED to Bai!IWash.DC area A BABY WANTED. CARING, CATHOLIC 
NOTICES 
fingerprints containing my id, detex, call Colette at 287-0742 books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 after graduation Rob # 1204 COUPLE SEEKING ADOPTION. CON­driver's lisence, keys, and clothes. most Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week FIDENTIAL, LEGAL, ALL EXPENSES treasured is the picture of my 233-2342 ED HICKEY Thank you for standing in PAID. HELP US HELP YOU. CALL 
TYPING AVAILABLE grandparents. please return asap. call 1981 Olda Wagon 89000 miles Excel­as a witness to my parents' car accident KATHY COLLECT AFTER 6PM 312­287-4082 lisa x4455 lent Condition New tires, brakes, car­ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st 4-22. I really appreciate your kindness. 462-7898 borator. $2200 271~765 Source Bank will finance your car pur­--Mary Beth 
chase For more information call Ellen Professors and grad-students: Pandora's Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 FEEL THE POWER will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to VOTE AMERICA 
HELP!MY WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING IBM PC?IT Model 086 FROM GUATEMALA FOR COM­
make an appointment. 10-5:30 7 Bartles Imports BM\MoMAZDIWW All day&Week JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends 
FOR RENT 

10Mb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and MENCEMENT AND NEED 2 EXTRA Quad ram CGA color monitor. $1,600 April 30th TICKET SALES FOR SENIOR MONTH TICKETS!!!PLEASE CALL ANITA AT Wordproceulng·Typing NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO price includes DOS 2:1, documentation, ACTIVITES!!! Mon-Thurs. 3-5 pm, in the 1365.WILL PAY$$$!! 272-3827 ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER Notre Dame Room of LaFortune A limited 6838889 DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO at STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! number ol tickets are available so Sam, maybe daycare is not our field.
get and other software packages also avail­
Lowest rate. 24 hour electronic protec­your tickets now!! TICKET SALES FOR EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. 6-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR able. For more information, call Mike tion. Call 654-3636. SENIOR MONTH ACTIVITESIII CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 OR 9 MO LEASE FOR FALL.272~306 a.m. to 5 p.m. "SENIORS: GOING TO A NEW CITY? For Sale May I inte~ect something at this particular CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· Two good-looking roommates with point in time. WORD¢PLUS FOR 1983 GREY FORD ES­VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER diplomas, a loft with iron ladders, a bottle What goes around around, and
FOR RENT 3 BR HOME SUPER CLEAN SALE: comes 
Scholastic Typing.£diting INSIDEQUT, WITH GARAGE. WALK TO CORT. GOOD CONDITION. 38,000 MI. N.D. GRADS GOING TO THE SAME of champagne and wine, two ex's, two we are back where we started, except CAMPUS. $470 MONTH NEG. CALL CALL 271-0868 
Rush Jobs O.K. CITY. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW." adorable little sisters, bullhorns, a saxop­for a few things. Do the words used car 256-30n hone, a file cabinet, a carpet with foam mean anything to you? By the way, the
LEN AT 234-7650 OR JOHN 232·3972. THE CIRCUS IS HERE 1111 Don't miss padding, a bowling MVP trophy, a dis­next pitcher is yours, and it will give new
i:AFiaE.......FiJFiNisiieo......s:ruoeN:r 
76' ELDORADO 69000 MLS NO RUST this event !Ill From noon until 1:30 at the tributorship, a George Bush sticker, a meaning to the word foam. 
HOUSE available for summer anoor 
NO DENTS NEW EXHAUST $900 Al­Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by Student briefs column, a Chicago apartment Computer Art Fair fall aeaalon on NO Ave. 255-5852 PINE SYSTEM $3200 CALL ED AT 232 Government and CSC tease, and a LA beach house. If you know Friday, April 29 in Riley Hall Room 200. avenlnga. 1198 AFTER 6 PM who, stop by or ca\1 about our open house JOANNA AND STEPHANIE: From the this week. home office in NILES,Mt here are the top 
Come see the latest in Interactive Art, Plan for FALLI Large 5 bedroom house ten quotes of the year: 10.Diastole, like

Videodisks, and Computer Music at 4 AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ANIMALS FOR Have A Coke And A Smile 
near campus. Furnished or unfurnished. 
232-SCHOOL? 2 die, when you're dead you're relaxed. 9.11
p.m. and Computer Animation Videos at SALE 50% OF RETAIL PRICE # SUMMER Need room­
Also available for summer. Call272-7258 
1198 mates NO Apia. CHEAPER THAN you treated your friends like you treat us,5 p.m. Don't miss the most innovative 
computer and art work Notre Dame has 

DORMS Mike x4328 or Marty 239-6041 YOU WOULD HAVE NO FRIENDS seen in years. Moving off campua?
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR 8.What the h---is flux anyway? 7.1 feel SUMMER RENT CALL ERIC X-1606 Creating a party room? "HIRINGI Government jobs -your area. GIVE BLOOD TUES. & WED. 10am -ROTTEN 6.That's ij, I'm through scoping COMPUTING CENTER For Sale: Matching loveseat and S15,0CI0-$68,000. Call (602) 838-8885. 4pm ALUMNI HALL PARTY ROOM 5.Geez-o-petes you just made my life 4.11 EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES armchair ... chocolate brown strong wood Ext. 6262.
WANTED doesn't matter if you have fun, just at ROOMMATE FOR APARTMENT IN long as you are seen. 3.1 don't know if GEORGETOWN FROM JUNE TO AU­new, used only one FOR 1983 FORD he's cute, I only saw him for a minute 2.
The Computing Center is now taking ap­frame, top condition, bought practically 
plications for Fall'88 student employment semester ... great SALE: GREY ES­BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT 
within the User Sarvices group. Posijions price ... call2170... in time for hall storage. CORT. 38,000 MI. CALL 271-0868. LIVE HALL TUES. WED. 
GUST. GREAT LOCATION AND Don't worry, I'm not listening to your con­
ALUMNI &
REASONABLE PRICE. CALL STEVE versation 1.11 I get up to use the toaster,
are available in both microcomputer and 10am -4pm 
muHi-user system areas. Experience 81 Chevette-70,000 mi. Runs CHIMES 88
X1654 will there be a toaster? THANKSII 
preferred, but not required for the appli­great, nice interior, $1150. CHIMES 88 CARPET -CHEAP! BEIGE, 8' X 12' FITS 
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB-LET JOSIE BABY, I believe I owe you A PER­
cation process. Freshmen, sophomores, Call Paul 1530 CHIMES 88 McCandless double. Buy it now and store 
2 BDRM IN TURTLE CREEK SONAL, aren't you EXITED?! Love, tu
and women are especially encouraged CHIMES 88 ill Call Julie X5426
PREF. FEMALE RENTERS Babe.
to apply. For more information, contact is coming May 2 
CALL JENNY 284-4289 

Smith-Corona XD6500
Lisa at 239-5153 from 8:30a.m. to 5:00 R To the young lady that likes Chicago Al­
p.m. Monday -Friday or stop by Room Mem. Writer;W'I!pellwrite,xtr.printwheel,low 
E 11 of the Computing Center. mileage $300;684-0538. SPECIAL SUMMER OFFER G 
leys : I told you that your paper would ARE YOU GOING TO BE HERE THIS be done and everything would turn out
25 PER CENT OFF KAPLAN GMAT, 
I
SUMMER WITH NOWHERE TO LIVE ? fine. Thanks for the stomach aches.....
1978 4-Door VW Rabbit 92,000 miles, LSAT, MCAT, GRE OR NCLEX PREP 
s
WORRIED ABOUT HAVING TO LIVE Big Belly 
$1100 call 288-6154 COURSES. NOW THRU 6-15-88 FOR ON CAMPUS UNDER SUCH SOUTH BEND SIGN UPS ONLY. 
STRENUOUS REGULATIONS ? 
AN TOSTAL TRANSFER ANYWHERE IN USA ­WORRY NO MORE II TOWNHOUSE 
T-SHIRT SAVE SSS'SIII CALL 272-4135 FOR IN­To my awlngln' slngtn' roomie­
' LOST/FOUND I 

AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER RENT AT HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
LIQUIDATION FO. Good Luck In the concert,
TURTLE CREEK II GIVE US A CALL TO
$5 I love you, Rachael
LOST: brown leather wallet with every­AT 3498 OR 3506 AND WE'LL SET YOU TERESA MACISZEWSKII 
X1951 GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION
thing valuable in it. Please return rt to me UP WITH ROOMMATES (OR YOU CAN LOVE AND KISSES,
a faculty panel will discuss research, ap­
and i will give you a reward. If you're a BRING YOUR OWN). WE DON'T CARE DUKE
plication, selection. April 27, 4:00 p.m.
blonde 6' male and want to keep the II JUST CALL US OR SPEND A SUM­
FOR SALE I Brand new full size bed, giant Notre Dame Room (Lafortune). All Rob Luxem a MER HERE WITH LIMITED FUN AND
minnesota license as fake id be my dresser with mirror. Call 2n-9022. classes and majors invited. JUNIORS en­Rob Luxem 
guest but please give me back the copy MAXIMUM RULES..... 3498 OR 3506 BOPSY BOPSY BOPSY
couraged to attend. Sponsored by Career Rob Luxem
card,insurance cards, and instant cash BOPSY BOPSY BOPSY
FOR SALE: BROTHER TYPEWRITER, & Placement Services. Tue. niles won't be
card for my bank at home. and give me BOPSY BOPSY BOPSY
2-STEREO SPEAKERS, BICYCLE-­
the same without you.
the nd id because rt doesn't do you any LOVE, CHARLIE
MUST SELL CALL 289-6623 AFTER GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION your cohortgood keep the credit cards because 
WANTED 

7:00PM a faculty panel will discuss research. ap­in crime
they're no good anymore anyway i lost ATTN FUllY'S PARTIERS:
plication, selection. April 27, 4:00 p.m.
it on wednesday, april 13 at night be­TO ALL THE GIRLS t OFFENDED AT
14" COLOR TV $65 CALL KIM AT Notre Dame Room (Lafortune). All
tween the future home of the international WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help FUllY'S PARTY SATURDAY
2834155 GOOD OFFER classes and majors invited. JUNIORS en­
peace studies and alumni either calli 060 save a life and earn extra caah at the (AND THERE WERE MANY), PLEASE
couraged to attend. Sponsored by Career 
or leave it anonymously in 207 alumni " same time. New and old donora who ACCEPT MY HUMBLE APOLOGY
FOR SALE: KING-SIZE WATERBED & Placement Services. MOM AND DAD II Welcome to school 
you want the reward call have not given within 30 daya will be INGO
WSOOKCASE HEADBOARD. PER­for the Alumni Sanate I Hope your staypatd $12 cash after donating If you FECT FOR O.C. MUST SELL NOW SO is as fun as mine has been for the past
LOST:CAMERA, CANON SURE-SHOT. bring In thla ad. Come to American Ride needed to Binghampton, Syracuse 
PRICE WILL BE UNBELIEVABLY LOW. 3 years Ill How about a little gall on Sat­
LOST AT THE SENIOR FORMAL AT Plaama Tuesday, area Fri. evening, May 6, or Sat. Just me BELINDA CARLISLE-A TO
on Wednesday, LESSON urday morning ? With love from your son, 
CALL RICK,233-9660
THE DANCE ON SATURDAY NIGHT. IF Friday or Saturday, 515 Llncolnway and one very small suitcase. Will share ALL ND WOMEN ON WHAT A LOSS 
Chris FOUND, PLEASE CALL 2541. Weal, South Bend. 234-6010. expenses. Call Erin at x2732. OF 151ba. CAN DO FOR YOU.
79 Blue Chevy Impala. Good condition. 
Call 3282--Steve Jenn Conlon 
FOUND: MAN'S TIMEX WATCH IN THE SUMMER JOBS For Sale PRING-I WANT TO BE ONE OF YOUR 
Will you marry me? ROCKNE MEMORIAL MEN'S LOCKER Airline Ticket to Denver ELVES. IF YOU NEED ME, JUST OPEN ROOM. All LAND-WATER SPORTS leaves 51! YOUR CLOSET, AND I'Ll BE PLAYING PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK call x4514 INSIDE. 
You haven't got a prayer

TICKETS
FOUND: BASKETBALL. CALL 1657 MOUNTAINS I'm a prleat officer 
WITH DETAILS AND DESCRIPTIION. CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­Top 16 quotes from the HPICubs INGS 914 3814224 JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN game(cont'd): 8.Hey batter, batter, batter, 
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­
FOUND: RHINESTONE SHOE ORNA­IN COMPLETED PROALE FORM TO SWING batter! 7.Too cold for beer? What 
TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR MENT AT SENIOR FORMAL. CALL CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­are you, communist? 6.Airight! Yeah! Go 
BRIAN 283-2871. DESPERATE AND WILLING TO VICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING Cubs!... What happened? 5.My baseball Summer Sublet Wanted in Turtle Creek PAY...for graduation tickets call Monica CAMPUS THIS SEMESTER. cherry is being popped here today! 4.He's or other close 
HELPII I need 2 grad. tix Will pay big
FOUND HP15c CALL 1453 # 3938 got 2 caterpillars living on his forehead to campus location. Prefer 1-bedroom,
$$$ Call Heidi 233-4176 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN and they're kissing. 3.Hubie on first but not that LOST: Gold Ring with "NCC" inscription. Want to go to Europe? Female senior IN COMPLETED PROALE FORM TO againl 2.When you see your breath, and picky. Call Andy x1699
OUR FAMILIES ARE COMING ALL THE 
Very important. Please call Colin at wants travel prtner-Call 3938 CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
it's got a head on it, you know rt's cold 1078. VICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING babyl !.D.-Please don't gol 
WAY FROM PUERTO RICO, SO WE 
NEED 10 GRADUATION 'rtX. WILL PAY 
Looking for used Mac CAMPUS THIS SEMESTER. For Sale: The Ultimate College Car call Todd at 1639 with model and price 1970 Chevy Impala THE IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMmEE Best Offer x2674, Patty
LOST: A blue-jean jacket with a set of 

ANY PRICE. CALL 2n-72611 IS SEEKING INTERESTED PERSONS KEYS inside. Lost on Saturday April 23. 
GRADUATING? MOVING TO IN­TO JOIN OUR COMMITIEEII ANY
If found, please call -1 need my keys THANK YOU SAINT JUDE! Annette,
DIANAPOLIS? LOOKING FOR FEMALE I NEED 1 GRAD TIC $DAN 234-5346 QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL BOB AT 
backll Call Ellie at x1253. Where else can you
TO SHARE APT OR HOUSE. CALL 2n-SUB AT n57 TODAY!
ATTENTION anyone looking for big $ for get in trouble for coolers. 
5906 HELPI We need grad tix real bad. If 
LOST: One SHARP CALCULATOR and a good couch (preferably light color) call Genna m1ss you (especially
you've got any to spare call Dan 1434 Klkl 
a CROSS PEN & PENCIL set in a tan x1700 or 1061 in sculpture).
RELIABLE person looking for fully fur­or Yvonne 288-0943. WE WILL PAY. This may be your last personal of the 
case. Was droppped between N. Dining Rob
nished private apartment or house for the year so enjoy it. 
Hall and Farley. PLEASE return to TINA LAST CHANCE DO MET-SHIRTS '2322 
summer. Call 3765. NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS.
at x2702, 322 or 318 PW. NEEDED FOR 

CALL JOSE 3346. HAPPY BIRTHDAY SLICEI KEEP
FINALS Ill THANKSI The Dave Brown: Rush Street? Molding? 
SMILING AND HAVE ANOTHER POPGirls from Kansas? Sex in moving vehi·
NEED RIDERS TO MPLS. LEAVING &5 TART YOU WILL ALWAYS BE# 1 TO 
Michelle,OR 5>6. CALL LEEANN 284-4455. NEED GRAD TIX $$$$ 288-8730 $$$ ME. LOVE, COLLEEN (SLICK)
cle? What DO you want for your birthday? 
LOST: Black & gray pinstripe jacket at How 'bout them Jayhawks! Happy 22ndl Barbecue sandwiches Tovoli's 4119. AND FOUND: Guy's black Love the B<logs! P.S. There's a lot of are on the house!
THE CSC NEEDS AN ART­HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY SLICEI LETS
jacket at Tivoli's 4119. I'm hoping we just love in this message!
ISTICALLIGRAPHER FOR THE NEXT PARTY SATURDAY NIGHTI LOVE,
switched jackets. Please call Mary Beth For Sale: South Bend to LaGuardia round 
SCHOOL YEAR TO DESIGN POSTERS NANCY, FRAN, LIZ, AND JODI
4558. trip airline tix. Leave South Bend friday PEBBLE BEACH, 1111 GRACE, AND
FOR ITS PROGRAMS AND EVENTS. COKE IS IT IF INTERESTED PLEASE CALL THE 
May 6, 2:15 PM. Cheap!! $100. 272-ANY ONE WHO HELPED TO PUT UP 
CAN YOU GIVE ME A RIDE TO CT OR
Lost-Set of Keys on an ND ring Fri. af­0579. WITH THE BOY FROM HELLIIIIIIII
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AT NYC AFTER FINALS? MAURA 3738
ternoon on South Quad # 814 on key THANK YOUIIIIIIIII SORRY ABOUT
239-9253. THANKS!
Call Ted X1762 ALL THE TROUBLEII I LOVE YOU ALLIIIIIIIIIIII 
SWELLNESS, You're the beat! Good
LOST! LEVI DARK BLUE JEAN JACKET 

ATTENTION ALL DOOBAGEMASTERS
PERSONALS 
luck this summer. We'll mlaa you Iota.
W<:HECKED LINING FROM SR. BAR Is anybody using this bar stool? Yea, I'll AND DOOBAGEMISTRESSES OF
We love youI M & M
LAST THUA. MY NAME AND ADRESS have the same. Shoot me too, I'm his 
ST. EDS, BIG LOVE-IN FRI. ON ARE ON A LETTER IN THE POCKET OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, roommate.
FOR SALE 

MARTY WATTS FOR THE NBA DRAFT FRIDAY.-JOHN. YES, JESUS 
WHICH I NEED, NOT TO MENTION THE CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE II MARTY WATTS FOR THE NBA IS JUST ALRIGHT WITH USII
SENTIMENTAL VALUE OF WHO GAVE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. THANK YOU ST. JUDE I 0 DRAFT II PLACE YOUR BETS NOW ON ME THE JACKET. I KNOW IT WAS WHAT ROUND HE'LL GO IN...... II ONLY A MISTAKE, AND AS A DECENT FOR SALE: 18" K-TV, 2 LARGE LAMPS, YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­ANYBODY CARE? I NEED RIDE HOME R SQUARED PERSON AT A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY SANYO MICROWAVE, FULL-SIZE BAR, bians at Notre Dam..St.Mary's College AFTER FINALS TO SOUTHERN CALI­Jeff, Eleven words could never express 
ONLY TIME WILL TELL how very much I love you. Terry 
YOU WILL RETURN IT TO ME. 2 MATCHING LOVE SEATS ....... CALL P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. FORNIA WILL SHARE EXPENSESII 
THANKSII JIM 4o85 271-D868 Confidentiality Guaranteed. X4017 

Wednesday, April 27, 1988 
The Observer page 11 

Hernandez, Mets lash Braves 
Associated Press Diego for their fourth straight Astros 3, Phlllies 1 victory. 
ATLANTA-Keith Hernandez The win was the first of the Mike Scott pitched a three­drove in a career-high seven year for Show, who came into hitter through eight innings for runs and hit two home runs, one the game 0-3 with an 8.36 ERA. his fourth win in five starts this a grand slam, as the New York show struck out three and did season as the Houston Astros Mets routed the Atlanta Braves not walk a batter in extending beat the Philadelphia Phillies 13-4 Tuesday night. San Diego's shutout string to 33 3-1 Tuesday night at Houston. 
Hernandez, who was batting innings . .158 with only four RBI going Martinez, subbing for a sore­Cubs 7, Dodgers 3 into the game, boosted Davey shouldered John Kruk at first Johnson to his 400th win as a base, hit a 1-1 pitch off reliever Greg Maddux pitched an manager. Randy O'Neal, 1-1, with one out eight-hitter for eight innings 
Unbeaten Dwight Gooden be­in the seventh inning. and the Chicago Cubs capi­came the first five-game win­Reds 5, Expos 2 talized on four infield errors by ner in the National League, al­the Los Angeles Dodgers en lowing 10 hits and striking out Nick Esasky and Eric Davis route to a 7-3 victory Tuesday five. It was Gooden's third hit solo homers to help Ron night. in Los Angeles. straight complete game. Robinson win his first game of 
Jim Acker, 0-2, who relieved the season as the Cincinnati 
Pirates 2, Giants 0 

Atlanta starter Tom Glavine in Reds defeated the Montreal 
the sixth, was the loser. Expos 5-2 Tuesday night. John Smiley pitched a four-Padres 1, Cardinals 0 Robinson, 1-2, worked 5 1-3 hitter for 8 2-3 innings in his innings, allowing three hits and fourth major league start and 
Eric Show pitched a 10-hitter one unearned run. Jose Rijo drove in Pittsburgh's first run and Carmelo Martinez went 12-3 innings. John Franco with his second major league homered for the first time this finished for his third save. hit as the streaking Pirates year as the San Diego Padres Floyd Youmans, 0-2, worked downed the punchless San defeated the St. Louis Car­seven innings, allowing nine · Francisco Giants 2-0 Tuesdaydinals 1-0 Tuesday night at San hits. night. at San Francisco. 
Associated Press Steve Kasper and Cam Neely, and with goaltender Rejean 
With a 4-1 victory Tuesday Lemelin turning aside 28 shots, night, the Boston Bruins ended the Bruins never faltered. It 45 years of Stanley Cup playoff was the first time that frustration against the Montreal had made such an Montreal Canadiens. early exit in a best-of-seven se­
The victory at the Montreal ries since 1963. Forum gave the Bruins the At Landover, Md., Kirk Mul­Adams Division championship ler scored two goals and Bob and marked the first time they Sauve stopped 28 shots to lead have taken a playoff series the Devils past the Capitals. from the Canadiens dating Sauve recorded his second back to 1943. They had lost 18 playoff victory in as many straight series before Tuesday starts this year for the Devils. night. Rookie Sean Burke has started 
The victory propelled the New Jersey's other nine playoff Bruins into the Wales Confer­games. ence finals against the winner For Muller, the pair of goals of the Patrick Division series were his first two in 11 playoff between the New Jersey Devils games after he set a franchise and Washington Capitals. record for most points during 
The Devils beat the Capitals the regular season with 94. 3-1 Tuesday night to take a 3-2 Sauve stopped Washington's 
AP Photo

lead in that series. first 20 shots before Mike Rid­
The New Jersey Devjt turned back the Washing­
The Bruins surged into a 2-0 ley scored with 9:36 remaining best-of-seven Patrick Division final, with the win­first-period lead on goals by in the game. ner taking on the Adams Division champion Bos­
ton Capitals 3-1 on Tuesday night at Landover, ' Md. The victory gave the Devils a 3-2 lead In the 
ton Bruins 
their all into the game in the name of dorm and individual
Tradition Knight's TV remark causes furor
pride, while Monk Malloy and
continued from page 16 •
Lou Holtz set loftier goals on 
Associated Press
turning around the women's the backburner in the name of Knight's education would say IU president Thomas basketball and hockey pro­Bookstore Basketball. NEW YORK-Indiana basket­that is shocking." Ehrlich, reached at his grams in just one year. Sports Illustrated's Rick ball coach Bob Knight's nation­Bloomington, Ind., office, said, 
Telander in 1978 claimed after ally televised remark compar­During an interview with "Coach Knight was not speak­
The Fighting Irish spirit is a week as an undercover ing rape and the handling of NBC monday night, correspon­ing for the university. His ref­not limited to varsity athletes reporter on Bookstore that the stress drew a sharp reply from dent Connie Chung asked erence to rape and his coarse alone. Hundreds of students Notre Dame campus an IU women's affairs official, Knight how he handled stress. language were in very poordevote their time to intracol­'resembled an Olympic village according to a published "I think that if rape is inevi­taste. Period. That's all I really legiate competition like inter­every day.' It may not next report. table, relax and enjoy it," want to say.''hall, NVA events and week when finals take over, but "Coach Knight's stature as a Knight responded. 
Bookstore Basketball. Compet­the events and people men­role model and as an educator He added: "That's just an old Knight was traveling and un­
itors like interhall basketball tioned above have proven this make it particularly dismay­term that you're going to use. available for comment, accor­champion Stanford's AI Martin past year that the world of ing," Trisha Bracken, assis­The plane's down, so you have ding~to a secretary in his office. 
and hockey semifinalist sport is alive and well at Notre tant to IU dean for women's af­no control over it. 
Cavanaugh's Hugh Wade put Dame. fairs Phyllis Klotman, told the NBC received 25 to 30 calls New York Times on Tuesday. "I'm not talking about that, complaining about Knight's "People who don't normally about the act of rape. Don't remark, according to spokes­pay attention to sexist remarks misinterpret me there. But man Kevin Monaghan. The IU
Suddenly she ap­
are astounded. It's something what I'm talking about is, women's affairs office 
you expect your grandfather to something happens to you, so received 12 to 15, according to
peared crashing out 
say. That a man with Coach you have to handle it now." Laura Crain, a secretary.
of the brush, helmet 
securely fastened, you missed sing-ups on ready to conquer the weekend -You're still not out of luckl Sign-ups will continue rocky terrain... on 3rd floor Lafortune, Student Activities Office, until the end 
of the semester, 10 a.m. -4 p.m. $150.00 Down, $400.00 Total It's.. .it's.. Includes: 
*Round-trip air fare THE BIRTHDAY *Tickets to the game GIRL! GO LAURA *4 nights Anaheim Marriott etc... LINDNER, GO! 
Don't Miss Outll 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, April 27, 1988 
Twins keep Orioles winless 
Birds one away from AL record after 19th straight loss 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS-The Bal­
timore Orioles stumbled to 0-19 
and within one game of the 
longest losing streak in Amer­
ican League history, falling to 
the Minnesota Twins 4-2 Tues­
day night on two home runs by 
Kent Hrbek and another by 
Randy Bush. 
It seemed like this would be 
the Orioles' night to win when 
Fred Lynn opened the game 
with a home run. Instead, it dis­
integrated into another dis­
aster when Hrbek's two-run 
homer and Bush's solo shot in 
the sixth inning wiped out Bal­
timore's 2-0 lead and gave the 
Twins their second victory in 
eight games. 
Not even Monday's encour­
aging telephone call from Pres­
ident Reagan to Baltimore 
Manager Frank Robinson 
could help the Orioles, who had 
champagne on ice in their club­
house in case they won. 
Baltimore can tie the AL 
mark of 20 consecutive losses, 
last done by the Philadelphia 
Athletics in 1943, with another 
loss Wednesday night in Min­
nesota. The all-time major­
league record is 23 consecutive 
losses by the Philadelphia 
Phillies in 1961. 
The Orioles' slide is the 
longest losing streak in the 
majors since Detroit's 19-game 
streak in 1975. 
Yankees 5, Royals 4 
Don Slaught opened the 
field home run Tuesday night to give the New York Yankees a 5-4 victory over the Kansas City Royals in New York. 
Slaught's homer, his fourth of the season, came on the first pitch from Charlie Leibrandt, 1-4, and gave the Yankees their 22nd triumph in the last 25 games against the Royals at Yankee Stadium. 
Cecilio Guante, 2-0, the second of three New York pitchers, was the winner, al­lowing one hit in two innings, with Charles Hudson pitching a hitless ninth for his first save. 
New York took a 3-1 lead in the fourth when designated hit­ter Jack Clark got his first Yankee Stadium hit, a two-run homer. He had been 0-10 at home. 
Athletics 6, Blue Jays 1 
Mark McGwire, who hadn't homered in 10 games, hit a pinch-hit three-run shot in the eighth inning Tuesday night at Toronto that broke a 1-1 tie and powered the Oakland Athletics to a 6-1 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays 
Winner Storm Davis, 2-1, al­lowed four hits and struck out seven in seven innings to win a duel with Dave Stieb. Dennis Eckersley pitched the final two innings for his major league­leading ninth save. 
Tigers 6, Angels 0 
Gary Pettis, in his first game against his old club, drove in Detroit to lead the Detroit Tigers to a 6-0 victory over the California Angels behind Jeff Robinson's six-hit pitching. 

Pettis, who was traded to Detroit last winter for pitcher Dan Petry, drove in two runs with a single in the third inning and singled home another in the Tigers' four-run fifth. 
Robinson, 2-2, walked five and struck out three in his first complete game of the season and second major-league shutout. Loser Mike Witt, 1-2, gave up seven hits and all six Detroit runs in five innings. 
Rangers 3, Brewers 1 
Jose Guzman continued his strong pitching with a three­hitter and Pete Incaviglia hit his fourth home run in six games Tuesday night, leading the Texas Rangers to a 3-1 vic­tory over the Milwaukee Brewers at Arlington, Tex. 
Guzman, 3-1, struck out eight and was in trouble only in the first inning as he lowered his ERA to 1.41 in 32 innings. Loser Chris Bosio, 3-2, allowed only seven hits. 
Red Sox-White Sox ppd. 
Tuesday night's scheduled game between the Boston Red Sox and Chicago White Sox at 

Chicago was postponed by rain AP Photo and will be played as part of a Those bumbling birds of Baltimore did It again Tuesday night, losing twi-night double-header on 4-2 to the Minnesota Twins and watching their record drop to 0-19. 
eighth inning with an opposite-three runs Tuesday night at Wednesday. The American League record for losing streaks Is 20 games. 
r-····...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................1 
~~n•••••••••n-•••••••••••-•••-•-••..••n•••••••-•-•••••n••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••••••..•••••••••••••••••••••••"''''''"'''''•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE DONOVAN! 
There once was q girl named Anne Drunk on her birthday was her plan· Before the night is done 
" 
She'll be 21 Andwe're sure she'll be worshipping the can! 




WE LOVE 0! 


Julie, Ursula, Karen, Andrea, Helen, Stephanie, Maura, Tara, Carol, Christina, Katrina, Rachael, Natacha, Tina, Janet, Kim, Pat, Mark, Chris, Kristen, Joanna 
I 
I ! 
-=----•••••••--••••...••••••n•••••..........,,.-......,...._.._,..,, .. , ... ,.,,,,.... ,,,,, ..... , ... ,_,_,.... ,, .. , .. ,,,,,, .... ,, .. ,,,,, ... ,,,,,,,, ... ,,., .... ,,,,, .. , .. ,,,,,, •••, ••• ,,,, ... , ... ,,,,,, .. ,,,., .. ,,,,,, .. ,,,,,, ..,,,n•••"'''"''ul 
•!!•!·······~!.!_!,!.!u!.!.!.!.!!.!..!.!.!.!.!.!!.!.!!.!!.!"!'!!.!..!!.!..!!!!..!!.!..!.!.!.!.! 
Wednesday, April 27, 1988 
Agreement reached at NBA discussions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The NBA and its players association reached a six-year agreement Tuesday that will grant some players unrestricted free agency, con­tinue the salary cap system and reduce the college draft to two rounds after this year. 
Before next season, a seven­year NBA veteran whose con­tracts has expired will have complete freedom to sign with any team, and his original team will no longer have the right to match an offer and keep him, as it does under the current right-of-first-refusal system. 
Among the veterans benefit­ting immediately from this provision will be Moses Malone of Washington, Sidney Moncrief of Milwaukee and Tom Chambers of Seattle. 
The union had asked for un­restricted free agency and the abolition of the salary cap and the college draft, but compro­mise was the order for both sides. 
"This is the first time in pro­fessional basketball that a player will be able to play with any team he chooses," said Larry Fleisher, executive director of the players associ­ation. 
"Both sides made com­promises from their original positions in order to reach agreement," NBA commissioner David Stern said. 
After the 1988-89 season, the free-agency provision will ap­ply to five-year veterans, and in the last year of the agree­ment, 1993-94, a four-year vet­eran will have unrestricted free agency provided he is not in his first NBA contract. 
In order to retain the right­of-first refusal for players who do not have enough years of service or who have just com­pleted their first contract, a team must offer a player a new contract that is worth 125 per­cent of his previous yearly salary. Teams also are not al­lowed to match an offer and then trade a player. 
In addition, right-of-first­refusal applies only to players who are offered $250,000 or more by their old team. 
The agreement, which is sub­ject to court approval, was reached after a seven-hour negotiating session Monday and was approved by the league's owners and the exec­utive board of the players union, which also will drop its antitrust lawsuit against the league. 
The agreement provides for a reduction in the June 28 col­lege draft from seven to three rounds. Subsequent drafts will be two rounds, making free agents of all but 54 college players each season. 
The minimum amount of­fered to first-round draft picks also will be raised from $75,000 to $150,000 this year, with addi­tional escalations next year. 
The league also retained the salary cap system that is based on the players' receiving 53 percent of gross revenues. 

Sports Briefs 
WVFI Sports Staffmembers must attend a meeting Wednesday at 8 p.m. at the station. Next year's plans will be discussed. Call Jamey Rappis at x2266 or Greg Guffey at x1701 if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Aerobics and stretchercise sessions will be held during finals week. Aerobics will be held at 4:30p.m. at Gym 2 of the Joyce ACC from Monday, May 2 to Thursday, May 5. Stretchercise will be held at 5:30p.m. in Gym 2 of the JACC on Tuesday, May 3 and Thursday, May 5. -The Observer 
The Burke Memorial Golf Course will hold graduation priority tee times on Friday, May 13 from 8 
a.m. to 4 p.m. and Saturday, May 14 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Call 239-5721 for special graduation reservations. Special graduation weekend hours of the course's pro shop will be 6:30a.m. to 8 p.m. on Friday, May 13, and 6 a.m. to 4 
p.m on Saturday, May 14 and Sunday, May 15. -The Ob­server 
NDAVEAPTS. 
SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AVAILABLE also renting for Fall 
2 Bedrooms completely furnished CALL 234-6647 
Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 
u=xM-====-~~~~==~~IIrC:::~~~·~c:==~~:rr====M-K+::::X4MK~~-~ 
All Ages.......... All Subject Areas 
Sterling Learning Center 
511 So. St. Joseph St. 
~ Phon:;t;;;~4415 ~ 
The Observer 
Freshman middle John Capano (26) and the Notre Dame lacrosse team will try to avenge losses to Michigan State during the last two years when 
ND lacrosse hosts 
By PETE LAFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will be out for revenge today at 3:30 when they host Michigan State at Edward W. "Moose" Krause Stadium. 
It was exactly a year ago this Friday when the Irish traveled to East Lansing for possibly the biggest game of the team's his­tory. The winner of the game was assured the inside track to the NCAA Tournament's West­ern bid. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the Spartans came up big in the first and third quarters on their way to a 16-5 victory. One week later, Michigan State was se­lected to the NCAA Tourna­ment. 
"Last year we went up there and were pretty embarrassed in a very crucial game," soph­omore midfielder Mike Quigley said, "but this time I don't think that will happen because we want revenge and we should play a good game." 
Today's game will mark the homecoming of '85 Notre Dame graduate Justin Shay, who is Michigan State's assistant co­ach. Shay, brotherofseniorJeff Shay, was a starting defen-
Schafer 
continued from page 16 
program in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the hope that someday I might be a viable candidate for this job." 
Notre Dame was supposed to announce its new coach in May. But it was July 13 before Schafer finally got the job, and that was only after one last plea to the school. 
"It looked like they were leaning toward someone else," said Schafer. "I spent one last day telling them why I deserve this opportunity. I was familiar seman for all four years and the team captain his senior year. 
The game with the Spartans will carry even further sig­nificance for the Irish besides being a chance for revenge. Notre Dame, Michigan State, and Ohio State still are in con­tention for the Great Lakes Lacrosse Association title, with the Buckeyes playing the Irish here on Saturday. Notre Dame won the title in '85 and '86. 
Michigan State already has beaten Ohio State, so the Irish would need victories over both the Spartans and then the Buckeyes to avoid a three-way tiebreaker situation. 
According to Irish head co­ach Rich O'Leary, the team will have to regroup after a poor effort against Ohio Wes­leyan Saturday if they are to regain the Great Lakes title. 
"We'll just have to go back to basics and not worry what the other team is doing," O'Leary said. "Michigan State is relatively even with us based on results this year ,so it should be a good game." 
The apparent equality of the teams is evident when looking at several games this year. Both squads were handled 
with the school, I'd invested nine years of my life as a stu­dent and assistant here, and I wanted the program to succeed." 
Schafer finally did get the job, and he had high expecta­tions for a team that had won only two of its 10 last games the previous season. 
"I want to approach the season with the feeling that we're going to win them all," said Schafer. "I'll accept the fact that there may be some setbacks, but I won't say how many are acceptable." 
The Irish came closer to win­ning them all than anyone had 
p111111111111fiiiiii11111111111111111111111UIU.UIUIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...........IIIIIIIII'III.......nttiii...III.....II..UIIIII 
I 

lb.tcr==«•K-===··IMIC==;:)-.CIUWC:=::H-IIItc=='Jf=::~ICr====~41rlc:::::;:)l* .d ,,,..,,,,..,,,,,,,..,,,,..,,,,,,...,..,,,,,..,,...,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,..,,,,,,.u,••••••••••••••••••• .. ••n•••••••n•u••• 
page 13 

the Irish host the Spartans at 3:30 p.m. today. Pete Lafleur previews the match below. 
MSU 
rather easily by Denison and the two teams battled in a seemingly even scrimmage before the regular season. Ad­ditionally, both the Irish and the Spartans played Kenyon into overtime, but Notre Dame escaped with a win while Mic­higan State came up short against the Lords. 
With a close game expected, a key factor could be the Irish's man-up attack. Notre Dame has converted only 16 of 89 power play attempts this year 
Justin Shay's homecoming will be bittersweet for his bro­ther Jeff. The younger Shay, who will miss the game with a knee injury, said he was par­ticularly looking forward to playing against a team coached by his brother. 
"This was the game I was really excited for, but a victory is more important to me than playing," he said. "If we win it will make the season a great success." 
The Notre Dame seniors are out for even further revenge against Michigan State. Two years ago, the Spartans came to South Bend and overcame an 8-3 Irish halftime lead to escape with a 12-11 victory. 
a reason to believe at the begin­ning of the season. The year in­cluded win streaks of eight and 12, and a stretch where the Irish won 20 of 21 games. The 27-4-2 ledger marked Notre Dame's best record in history, including the "glory days" before Notre Dame was brought to club status. 
Schafer received more good news during the season when it was announced that the hockey team would be granted 10 scholarships over the next four years. The hocky program has had no scholarships since its one-year drop to club status. 
But Schafer may have helped the hockey program almost as much with his marketing abil­ities as with the team. The home season included an Elvis­impersonator singing the na­tional anthem, Pete "the Whip" Abowd providing key­board entertainment during the games, a between-periods puck shootout for a year's use of a car and crowds regularly between 1000 and 2000 per game. 
"We're not the same natural draw as football and basket­ball, but I think we made good on our promise of showing how exciting college hockey can be," said Schafer. "We made one step forward as a hockey program. 

------~----------------------------------------~ 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, April 27, 1988 
•

Cahill reaching new heights 1n freshman year 
By FRANK PASTOR SportsWriter 
"I wasn't really that serious about it when I was nine, " CeCe Cahill says of her early days as a tennis player. "I met a lot of friends at a club, and I would just go there and goof around." 
Back then, who would have believed that ten years later CeCe Cahill would be the number-one singles player for the University of Notre Dame women's tennis team? She will continue a freshman season at the number-one spot when the Irish (11-14) close out their season today at 2:30 against Western Michigan. 
In the past year, the 5-foot freshman from Hinsdale, Ill., has set the entire Midwestern tennis world on its ear, rolling up one victory after another in pursuit of an NCAA tourna­ment bid. She also has netted a number of distinctions along the way, including North Star Conference championships at number-one singles and doubles, Midwest Rookie of the Year, and selection to the Rolex Qualifiers. 

Clearly, the tale of CeCe Cahill is a success story, one that begins back in that club with her crude introduction to the game. As her interest in tennis soared, Cahill's ac­complishments began to ac­cumulate. 
At Hinsdale Central High School, she was named district champion four times, and won the state title in both her junior and senior years. She was named to the all-state and all­conference teams in each of her four seasons. In addition, the 1985-86 campaign saw her garner Prince All-American and the Chicago Tribune's Ath­lete of the Year honors. 
Cahill's phenomenal success did not stop at the high school level. In the fall season, she es­tablished herself immediately as a bona fide college player by compiling an incredible 20-1 singles record. She also finished 8-4 in doubles play, 
Draft ends, analysis 
teaming with Michelle Dasso and Stephanie Tolstedt. 
Oddly enough, Cahill would never have enrolled at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame if not for a campus tour suggested by her brother Tony, a former Irish tennis player. She had been 

CeCe Cahill 
considering a number of other schools, most notably Northwestern, Florida, and Boston College. 
"It was sort of ironic, " says Cahill, "because I wasn't really thinking of coming here at all. But when I came down here (for the tour) I really, really liked it." 
starts 
Experts like fortunes of the Lions, Eagles and Browns 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The NFL draft was half over when several analysts declared that Detroit, Cleveland and Philadelphia had a good draft and the Den­ver Broncos Los Angeles Rams a bad one. 
A day later, another analyst declared that the Broncos and Rams had prospered. 
If it takes three years for football people to accurately determine if a draft is success­ful, it didn't stop coaches, personnel directors and gen­eral managers from declaring their drafts an unqualified suc­cess. 
The one exception was Jim Finks, the candid general manager of the New Orleans Saints. 
"Average. Based on my ex­perience, average," said Finks, who in two years has turned New Orleans from a team that went 20 years with­out a winning record to one 
w~h~os_e.. __ __
re_gula_r_-_se_a_s_o_n_m_a_r_k of 
B r 0 W n 
continued from page 16 
all year in leading Notre Dame to an 8-4 record, including a Cotton Bowl bid in his hometown of Dallas. 
The senior touched the ball 130 times for 1,847 all-purpose yards, moving into first place on Notre Dame's career list in that category. He caught 39 passes for 846 yards and three touchdowns. He scored three more times on punt returns, two of those in the second game of the season against Michigan State. 
Notre Dame basketball stan­dout David Rivers won the award last year. 
"Tim is the most gifted, talented player that I've ever been around," Irish head coach Lou Holtz notes. "He's an in­stinctive athlete, and he makes things happen. Lots of times, you watch the things he does on the field, and there's nothing anyone can say to add to it. The plays he makes speak for them­selves." 
12-3 in 1987 was second-best in the NFL. 
"Ask me two years from now, and I'll be able to tell you better." 
Yet, Finks and the Saints may have done better than most in filling needs, snaring running back Craig "Iron­head" Heyward of Pitt and wide receiver Brent Perriman of Miami in the first two rounds. 
If the 250-270-pound Heyward can keep himself away from New Orleans' numerous res­taurants, he should provide in­surance for Rueben Mayes, who has knee problems. Per­riman, who runs the 40-yard­dash in 4.4 seconds, could be the deep receiver the team needs. 
The Rams, with five picks in the first two rounds because of the Eric Dickerson deal, went for speed, a departure for a team whose coach, John Robin­son, likes a heavy-duty running back who can carry the ball 30­35 times a game. 

B_u_t_inst_e_a_d_o_f H_e_ywa_rd o_r_· 
A national championship also says quite a bit, and Sul­livan has won two of them. She 
also won the national title in 1986 as a sophomore. Sullivan won the Krause award that year as well. "I was very happy with the season," Sullivan says. "This is how I wanted to end my col­lege career, but I feel I have a lot more to do personally, like making the Olympic team." The team for the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics will be an­nounced in June. Sullivan's career winning percentage is well over .900, and she moved into first place 

Brad Muster of Stanford, they used their first pick on Gaston Green of UCLA, less durable but a breakaway threat and a hometown pick. In fact, four of the five top choices were from the Pac-10, including Green, wide receiver Aaron Cox of Arizona State, defensive back Anthony Newman of Oregon and wide receiver Willie "Flip­per" Anderson, Green's UCLA teammate. 
But Robinson wasn't the only coach to break a pattern. 
Two who have repeatedly said they hate taking offensive linemen on the first round, Ray Perkins of Tampa Bay and Bill Parcells of the New York Giants, each did it. 
Perkins took Paul Gruber of Wisconsin. The Giants chose Eric Moore of Indiana, follow­ing up with another offensive lineman, John Elliott of Mic­higan in the second round. 
That belied their reputation as a team that takes the best available athlete and enhanced their tradition of "flood 
d_ra_f_t_s._"-----------------r~~li~trtr~~~~~~~!!~~~~:!:a~i:ifl on Notre Dame's all-time vic­tory list this past season. The women finished second in the 
country as a team. Sullivan was the first schol­arship fencer at Notre Dame, and was named a first-team All-American in each of her four years. "Molly has established her­self as one of the best fencers in the country," notes Irish wo­men's fencing col\_ch Yves Auriol, who will help coach the United States women's Olym­pic team this summer. "She is a dominant, physical fencer, and she's got a great chance to make the team." 
High Street Storage 1212 High Street South Bend 
5' x 5' --$15 /month 5' x 10' --$20/month 1 0' x 1 0' --$32 I month 1 0' x 20' --$45 I month other sizes available 
288-3575 
A major factor in her choice of college was the concept of team unity professed by Notre Dame. Cahill was not im­pressed by the cutthroat com­petition for spots prevalent among many other univer­sities. 
"Sure, we're competing for spots at the beginning, but after that we're together as a team, " she says. "We're competing against other schools, not against each other. It's not like we don't want each other to win, which I have seen in a lot of other schools we played this year." 
Cahill feels comfortable in her current role as the top­seeded player for the Irish, but she is well aware that her status is a responsibility as well as a privilege. 
"I'm glad that I have been able to be part of the team and to be able to play at number­one, " says Cahill. "To play for Notre Dame, I think, is in itself a great honor. But I know that I'm much more obligated here and that I have a commitment 
to the team as a scholarship player." 
At the conclusion of the fall season, Cahill became Notre Dame's first women's tennis player to qualify for a national tournament when she received an at-large bid to the Rolex Na­tional Qualifier. 
"I was pretty happy to go, and it was a good experience, " Cahill says of the Rolex Qualifier. "It was definitely playing on a different level, be­cause I hadn't been up against that kind of competition in a long time. I hope that maybe I can do that again next year." 
A trip to the NCAA cham­pionships this summer would certainly cap off a perfect year for Cahill. Bids are distributed on May 6, just as finals cul­minate for Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"I think I have a good chance of making the tournament, but I'm really not going to think about it, " asserts Cahill. "We have one more match left, and I just want to play my best." 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch CeCe Cahill and the Notre Dame women's tennis team play host to Western Michigan at 2:30 p.m. today In the last match of the season. On the above story, Frank Pastor features the top-seeded freshman who has aspirations of making the NCAA's this season. 
Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday thrQugh Observer advertising. 
DOLLAR IMPORTS W~ \~KEY SOc.Jtz.S 154 
THURSDAY 
\3\6 C.UP DRAFT 15¢ RUM A~D C.OK.E 
'"15df. 

fRIDAY LUNCt-\ ! 
OPEN 
NOO.J -2 P"" 21 I.D. ~E'Q'D 

Wednesday, April 27, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Comics 
Bloom County Far Side Gary Larson
Berke Breathed 


Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
(W1.t l'IME, CAl'llN! 
.. ~ j,y}z_ 


Her answer oft by miles, Sheila's "cow sense" was always a target of ridicule. 


Campus 
Wednesday 
9:15a.m.: CLMTD Session II, The Economic Context of the Transition and the Relative Strength or Weakness of Labor, CCE. 10 a.m.: Ceramics department spring pottery sale, O'Shaughnessy Great Hall. 
11:15 a.m.: CLMTD Session III, The Impact of the Prior Authoritarian Regime and Its Industrial Relations System on Labor in the Transition, CCE. 
12: 10 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 2:15p.m.: CLMTD Session IV, The Impact of the Prior Authoritarian Regime 
and Its Industrial Relations System on Labor in the Transition, CCE. 2:30p.m.: Women's Tennis vs. Western Michigan, Courtney Courts. 
3:30 p.m.: Civil Engineering Massman Distinguished Lecture, "Stochastic Response and Damage Analysis of Inelastic Structures," by Professor Y. Wen, University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, Room 303 Cushing. 
4 p.m.: CLMTD Session V, The Modalities and Political Alliances of the Transi­tion, CCE. 
4 p.m.: Maritain Center John Olin Lecture Series, "St. Thomas and the Uni­verse," by Rev. S. Jaki, Seton Hall and 1987 Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, 122 Hayes-Healy. · 
4 p.m.: Career and Placement Services presents "Graduate School Prepara­tion," a faculty panel discussion, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Reflections on the Higgs," by Professor M. Veltmann, University of Michigan, 118 Nieuwland. 
4:30p.m.: Air Force ROTC awards ceremony, Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
8 p.m.: SMC music department concert, spring coral concert, O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. 9 p.m.: Notre Dame Folk Choir in A Concert of Liturgical Music, Sacred Heart 
Church. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Pork Chops 
Pasta Bar 
Devonshire Sandwich 
Turkey Rice Soup 
\ 
Saint Mary's 
Grilled Pork Chops Beef Tacos Cajun Seafood Rice Deli Bar 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Food fish 5 Ulan ­
10 Necessity 14 Bedouin 15 Morris of Ariz. 16 Ancient 
Peruvian 17 Supports 19 Pierre's state: 
abbr. 20 Fills up 21 Cubic meter 22 Cry 23 Berlin mister 24 Tempe 
campus 
letters 27 "-Skylark" 29 Cotton cloth 32 Moon 34 Exaggerated 36 Sponge 38 Airport letters 39 Street talk 40 Upset 43 Snlcker-­44 Evening songs © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 45 Silent 
All Rights Reserved 
approval Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 47 Alcoholic's • 5 Source of fear r,;;;;;:;;:;::;;;::;:;:;;::;::;:;;:;::~;::;::;:;:;;, 
problems 6 Mine entrance 48 Paper pack 7 Biblical weed 49 Oolong e.g. 8 Auto pioneer 51 Fraudulent 9 Literary 
plans monogram 
53 Where the 10 Some court Cumberland cases flows 11 Comprehend 
58 Carry 12 Cicatrix 59 Weakens 13 Gate 61 Beasts of receipts 
burden 18 Melee 62 WWI Fr. 21 Paving stones 
soldier 23 Owns 63 Anet 24 Small dogs 64 Ago 25 Polished 65 Stone marker 26 Sells short 66 Normandy 28 States 
D41271BB 

42 False 54 Actress 46 Te-Adams 50 Amino and 55 Dickens 
boric character 51 Desist 56 Do needlework 52 Hlp joint 57 Scream 53 Granny or 59 Raises 
square 60 Hwy. sign 
town 
DOWN 1 Letter from 
Greece 2 Samovars 3 Nothing: Sp. 4 Incites 
29 Muscular 
strength 30 Belief 31 Brims 33 Pact 35 Ike's realm 37 Lab burners 41 Emoter 
CU5HI NG-AUD. APRIL 27 and 28 ADMISSION PLEA~£: B·oo t lo:oo 
~ 2.~ NO FOOb ot))llaiK! • 1?1'}. P.~ 

Sports 
VVednesday, April 27, 1988
gage 16 

1987-88 Krause Award 
Brown, Sullivan are NO Athletes of Year 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 

They were named the best in the nation in their respective sports. 
And Tuesday the best college football player and the best women's fencer in the country were announced winners of the Ed­ward W. "Moose" Krause awards as Notre Dame's top male and female athletes of 1987-88, as selected by The Observer sports staff. 
Reisman Trophy winner Tim Brown was selected male Athlete of the Year and na­tional fencing champion Molly Sullivan was named female Athlete of the Year by the sports staff of The Observer. 
Brown, who was selected sixth in the first round of the NFL draft by the Los Angeles Raiders on Sunday, became the seventh Notre Dame football player to receive the Reisman Trophy when he won it last Decem­ber. 
"I couldn't ask for a better senior year," Brown says. "We had a good season, win­ning the Reisman, and now to get the chance to play somewhere millions of people would love to play. This is all such a thrill." 
Plenty of thrills are what Brown provided 
see BROWN, page 14 

winners named 
Schafer leads NO's hockey resurgence 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
This time a year ago, Ric Schafer was afraid he might be out of the running for the vacant Notre Dame hockey coaching posi­tion. 
But after months of persistence, Schafer finally was named the new coach last July. Irish hockey fans couldn't be hap_pier. The first-year coach won the Edward W. Krause Award for Notre Dame Coach of the Year 
·on Tuesday, as named by the Observer sports staff. 
Mter suffering three straight losing seasons since spending the 1983-84 season at club status, the Irish hockey team soared to 27-4-2 under Schafer. The Irish closed the season by winning the American Collegiate Hockey Association tournament crown. 
But after attending an interview last April concerning the coaching spot, Schafer's hopes of coaching at Notre Dame apppeared remote at best. 
"I guess I didn't make a good impres­sion," said Schafer, who had been coaching at Alaska-Fairbanks for seven years after serving as both a player and an assistant at Notre Dame. "That bothered me because I'd worked seven years to put together a 
see SCHAFER, page 13 


Piotrowicz, ND stop Boilers 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Ground balls led the Irish to victory yesterday afternoon. 
The Notre Dame baseball team upped its record to 26-20 thanks to 23 ground balls in a 5-2 victory over Purdue. Sophomore starting pitcher Brian Piotrowicz had his sinking fastball working in top form, yeilding 22 ground balls throughout the course of the game. 
The other ground ball was the one hit by Irish right fielder Dan Peltier in the seventh in­ning with the score tied 2-2. 
Mike Coss led off the third with a walk courtesy of Purdue loser Tom Mayer, who was lifted in favor of lefthander Mike Drum. Irish shortstop Pat Pesavento spoiled Drum's en­trance with a perfectly placed bunt down the third base line, setting the stage for Peltier's ground ball. 
With the runners on first and second, he hit the bouncer to the third baseman, who fielded it cleanly but threw wildly in the general direction of first base. As the fielder tracked down the ball, Coss scored to put the Irish up 3-2. 
"Those mistakes are part of baseball," said Irish head co­ach Pat Murphy. "We were able to take advantage of that play." 
The apparently harmless ground ball play continued to 
be a nightmare for the Boilers. First baseman Troy Aeschliman retrieved the ball and tried to catch Pesavento racing for the plate. Aeschliman's throw was al­most as bad as the throw that started the melee; Pesavento scored, and so did Peltier, who started it all, from second base. 
The Irish led 5-2, and Piotrowicz took it from there. 
"Brian has a natural sinking fastball,'' Murphy said of Tues­day's complete-game winner. "He has to work and concen­trate to throw it right. He has to believe in it for it to work for him." 
Piotrowicz must have 
see IRISH, page 10 
Tradition continues at ND's 'Olympic village' 
Across these pages, the world of sports is brought to Notre Dame students. 
It's no Los Angeles Times or Boston Globe, but The Observer tells the story. Often, however, that task is not difficult, because the story happens right here at Notre Dame. 
My first impression of this place came at the age of 10, watching thousands of Irish faithful cheer hold a pep rally for the soon-to-be national cham­pions after a 1978 Cotton Bowl win over top-ranked Texas. 
That 10-year old tyke (that's the only word to describe me at that stage of my existance) knew then that there was something special about Notre Dame sports, and as a sportswriter here today, this 21-year old tyke (some things never change) gets to cover the best of college athletics. 
This column has attempted to look at some seg­ment of the Irish sports world for 25 Wednesdays, from women's basketball to the Heisman Trophy chase to Notre Dame fencing to the Bookstore Bas­ketball tournament. There are few colleges in the nation where sports are as prominent in the con­versations and thoughts of a student body, due in large part to the outstanding athletic tradition of Notre Dame past, the excitement of Notre Dame present and the promise of Notre Dame future. 
Over the past school year, Irish teams and a1h­letes have continued to carry the torch and keep it burning bright. 
The most obvious Notre-Dame moment cul­minated a Tim Brown-autumn when the senior flanker captured the Reisman Trophy. Anyone in Notre Dame Stadium on the evening of Sept. 19 will not soon forget Brown's back-to-hack punt returns for touchdowns. He was, if only for a moment, or make that two moments, invincible. But best of all, he was Notre Dame's. 

Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 
Another Irish athlete reached the top of her field, but it wasn't unfamiliar turf for Molly Sullivan, who won her second individual national championship in fencing. Like Brown, the senior fencing queen will leave Notre Dame next month for new worlds to conquer--for starters, the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. 
An integral part of building a great basketball team is the leadership of a point guard, and next month's graduation will take two talented floor generals from the men's and women's basketball teams. David Rivers has done it all for the Irish since he first stepped on campus as a scrappy fresh­man from Jersey. He led the charge in the North Carolina upset, amazed fans with his sleek moves, but most impressively he said no to death on the side of the road two Augusts ago, and his example will live on at Notre Dame long after he leaves. Another Irish floor general who gave her all for the Blue and Gold is Mary Gavin, Jersey-bred as well. Gutsy is the best description of Gavin, who had stolen and dished out more passes in her first three years here than anyone else had in four. Few 5'6" women have left such big shoes to fill. 
The Notre Dame spirit is carried on by coaches as well as players. Besides serving as mentor for the fencing teams, which have brought home two team national titles in three years, Mike DeCicco heads the academic advising for Irish athletes, keeping Notre Dame's graduation rate among the nation's best. And a walk through Rockne Memorial might bring you face-to-face with golf coach Noel O'Sullivan reciting his pride for the University, con­tinually repeating 'Notre Dame, Notre Dame.' 
The tradition is not just a thing of the past, as new faces on campus like Muffet McGraw and Ric Schafer have wasted little time getting into the act; 
see TRADITION, page 11 

