
Ice follies
/ACCENT: Education provides hope 
Windy and colder today with a 40 percent chance of light snow. High 20 to 25. Low
• 
tonight near 5. High tomorrow
IVIEWPOINT: Irish on ICe 



THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1988 VOL. XXI, NO. 83 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Contra aid voted down 
Associated Press strengthen communist influ­but added, "there's no way a 
ence in the hemisphere. U.S. vote is going to change our 

WASHINGTON-A bitterly The White House issued a determination or will. We will divided House voted Wednes­statement saying it was disap­just have to do without." day to cut off U.S. military sup­pointed the House "did not vote In the voting, 12 Republicans port for Nicaragua's Contra to keep pressure on the Sandi­sided with the Democrats to rebels, rejecting President nistas during the peace defeat the president's aid re­Reagan's aid request in the process." quest. hope of fortifying the Central "We thank our many sup­"Today's vote is the end of a American peace process. porters in Congress who chapter,'' said House Majority 
The 219-211 vote, culminating worked so hard on behalf of this Whip Tony Coelho, D-Calif. six years of overt and covert issue. We will continue con­"The Contra policy is the past. military support for the rebels sultations with these congres­Now we can deploy America's fighting the leftist Sandinista sional supporters and other greatest strengths, from aid government, killed Reagan's concerning the future of the and trade to diplomacy, to request for $36.2 million in new resistance and the peace stoke the flames of liberty and aid to keep the Contras alive as process," said presidential secure the future for Central a fighting force through June. spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. America." 
It was a serious defeat for the A contra spokeswoman in But Republicans bitterly president, who had lobbied Miami termed the vote "a warned that the action would hard on the issue for two weeks serious setback in our struggle relieve part of the pressure on and has put the Contras among for freedom and democracy." Nicaraguan President Daniel the top foreign policy priorities "The vote does not mean we Ortega that has forced him into for his final year in office. Only will stop," said Marta Sacasa, recent concessions, and that a day earlier, Reagan had of­spokeswoman for the Managua would slip back­fered one final compromise Nicaraguan Resistance, the wards into renewed repression. giving Congress more say in Contra umbrella group. She "The issue of Nicaragua and the military aid. He argued said Contra leaders would that failure to extend aid would "reassess possible strategies" see CONTRA, page 6 
NO alumni speak of Chile 
By KEVIN BOUGHAL and they used that interest to cult to communicate with, ac­News Staff help the people. cording to the associates; this For example, Jordan, a poli­makes bringing the people to­
After spending two years and ti<;al science major, visited the gether as a community some­one month with the Holy Cross women political prisoners in times difficult. Associates helping the poor of jail. He also said he was able After the people start to getChile, three Notre Dame to use his special interest in involved, however, manygraduates came back to the gardening to help the Chilian really give their all to the com­Center for Social Concerns to people devise backyard gar­munity projects, Brennan said. 
tell of their experiences in that dens to feed their families. politically volatile country. Brennan majored in eco­The associates started pre­
Gib Gailius, Nancy Brennan nomic development while at paring for their work in Chile and Bill Jordan, all 1985 Notre Dame. In addition to hel­during the second semester of graduates, spent much of their ping people deal with their their senior year. Their prepa­time teaching the Chilian poverty, she also organized ration included classes in people to speak English, set­workshops for the prevention of Spanish and Chilian politics.ting up a newspaper in a school prostitution. They also spent two months in and helping the people under­Gailius, a history major, Moranga, Calif., right after stand religion in their lives. taught children religion and graduation, and then two 
However, according to the how to speak English. He and months in Mexico before arriv­speakers, the most rewarding Brennan both helped to set up ing in Chile. part of their experience was a newspaper in a school. teaching the Chilians to work Gailius said they were partic­Although the work was often as a community and "being ularly proud of this ac­difficult, the associates said, available to help the people." complishment. all three agreed it was also 
Each of the speakers had The harsh dictatorship in very rewarding. Said Gailius of some particular area of inter­Chile makes the people very the program, "In a second, I est before they went to Chile private and sometimes diffi-would do it again." 
ROTC to undergo periodic ethics review 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR  member committee should  committee, when it meets,  
Staff Repcorter A new committee to review the ethical content of  not be interpreted as imply­ing that the ROTC programs are in any way suspect, said Sister John Miriam Jones,  will be little more than a broadening of the existing checks of the ROTC pro­gram presently conducted  
all Notre Dame ROTC pro­grams has been appointed by Provost Timothy O'Meara.  chairman of the committee. Jones, an associate provost, is also director of military affairs at Notre Dame.  by the university adminis­tration. "There are no nega­tive feelings," she said. Response to the formation  
In a press release last Friday, O'Meara was quoted as saying "The University . . . has a special responsi­bility to see that its 700 ROTC students formally ex­plore as fully as possible the ethical dimensions of their lives as future military  According to Jones in the press release, "Because Notre Dame is in a position to contribute uniquely to the integrity and formation of conscience in tomorrow's leaders, it is important to ex­amine periodically whether our contribution can be bet­ of the committee by ROTC leaders was uniformly cooperative. Lt. Col. Douglass Hem­phill of Notre Dame Army ROTC, said he believed "the ethical content of ROTC pro­grams is in line with the Uni­versity's," and that cooper a- 
leaders."  tered."  
The formation  of the  12  Jones  also said that  the  see  ROTC,  page 6  


I he Observer I Mary Budde 

Temporary peace 
Despite the guns in hand, Israeli soldiers at the Tomb of the Patriarchs share a moment of peace to smile for an American student's camera. The tomb, in Hebron on Israel's West Bank, is where it is thought Abraham and other religious figures are buried. Related photos on pages 3 and 5. 


Senate confirms Kennedy 97 to 0 
Associated Press action and separation of church 
and state. 

WASHINGTON-The Senate His confirmation, after a pro on Wednesday swiftly and forma one-hour debate, was in unanimously confirmed An­marked contrast to the stormy thony Kennedy to the Supreme fight touched off by the nomina­Court, ending a ferocious poli­tion last July of Robert Bork. tical battle that began seven Bork, Reagan's first choice months ago. to fill the vacancy created by 
Kennedy, a federal appeals Powell's June 26 retirement, court judge who was President was denounced as a rigid right­Reagan's third choice to wing ideologue who threatened succeed retired Justice Lewis individual freedom and civil Powell, was approved by 97-0 rights progress. The Senate with Democrats and rejected him by 58-42 on Oct. Republicans alike praising him 23. as a moderate, open-minded Kennedy was extolled Wed­conservative. nesday by Sen. Edward Ken­
Reagan, in a statement, said nedy, D-Mass., as a man of "in­he is "extremely pleased" and tegrity, intelligence, courage declared Kennedy ''will make and craftsmanship" embrac­an outstanding addition to the ing a "judicial philosophy that Supreme Court . . . . The Sen­places him within the main­ate has not only restored to the stream of constitutional inter­nation a full nine-member Su­pretation." preme Court, it has reaffirmed The liberal senator, who is this country's commitment to not related to the nominee, was the philosophy of judicial pinch-hitting for Sen. Joseph restraint." Biden, D-Del., in leading the 
In Sacramento, Calif., Ken­placid Senate debate. nedy issued a statement saying Biden, chairman of the Sen­he could "conceive of no ate Judiciary Committee that greater honor for an attorney recommended Kennedy's con­or a judge" than to serve on firmation by a 14-0 vote, missed the Supreme Court, and adding Wednesday's debate because he is committed to the Ameri­of illness. can constitutional system. Also absent were two 
Kennedy, 51, will be sworn presidential candidates, Sens. into office Feb. 18, becoming Albert Gore Jr., D-Tenn., and the 104th justice in the history Paul Simon, D-Ill. of the nation's highest court. Conservative Sen. Strom 
He is expected to play a pivo­Thurmond, R-S.C., called Ken­tal role on the sharply divided nedy "one of the most court, particularly on such is­eminently qualified individuals sues as abortion, affirmative to be nominated" to the court. 


page 2 The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1988 



In Brief 
A fatal shooting occured when a South Bend man answered a knock at his door Wednesday night in an ap­parent dispute over a debt, South Bend police said. Corbin "Carl" Watkins, 21, was killed by a single shot to the chest, said St. Joseph County Deputy Coroner James McMeel. Police said the assailant fired a handgun through a glass pane of the door when Watkins answered a knock shortly after midnight. Police said they believed the shooting stemmed from an unpaid debt between Watkins and the suspect, whose name was not immediately released. 
-Associated Press 
The stock market came under renewed pressure Wednesday in an afternoon wave of selling that hit blue chips hardest. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down about 40 points at its lowest levels of the day, closed with a 28.35loss at 1,924.57. Declining issues outnumbered advances by nearly 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 646 up, 942 down and 393 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 237.27 million shares, against 164.92 million in the previous session. -Associated Press 

Of Interest · 
An informational meeting for anyone interested in working on the Great Escape, a marathon dancelconcert for Cystic Fibrosis, will be tonight at 7 in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
A Life in the Spirit seminar will be tonight at 7:30 in the StanfordKeenan chapel. This is for those interested in learning how to live a Christian life in today's society. 
-The Observer 
TheJugglerArt and Literary Magazine is now accepting submissions for the Spring 1988 issue. Bring art or written work to the English office on the third floor of O'Shaughnessey Hall. -The Observer 
ProfessorWalterBernsofthe American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research will give a lecture entitled "To Secure These (Unalienable) Rights" Friday at noon in Room 112 of the Law School. -The Observer 
Members of the band will be fitted for monogram sweaters today from 4 to 6 p.m. in the band office. For information call Luther Snavely's secretary at 239-7136 or 239-5054. -The Observer 
The camvus billiards tournament has begun. Those who have signed up should check the pool room for their opponent's name and make arrangements for the pool games. -The Observer 
The Anti-Apartheid Network, in a continuation of its series of films on the South African apartheid system, will present the first of a five part PBS Frontline docu­mentary on the history of the separation of races in South Africa tonight at 7:30. This film gives a historical perspec­tive on the current state of South African affairs. -The Observer 
The Urban Plunge, a program that enables NMMC students to come face-to-face with the poor, will be fea­tured tonight on Campus Perspectives on WVFI-AM 640 from 10 to 11 p.m., with Urban Plunge coordinator Dan Keusal and Plungers Bob Kuehn, Rachel Jarosh and Dianna Wroblewski. Call in at 239-6400. Hosted by Chris Shank. -The Observer 
Carol Stuart will give a presentation and discussion of "The Disappeared in Central America" today at 12:30 
p.m. in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education cordially invites the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to its dedication reception at 4:30p.m. Friday in 210 LaFor­tune Student Center. For information contact David Dan­nison at 239-7970. -The Observer 
Basketball referees are needed at the Logan Center Friday from 6 to 8 p.m., Saturday and Sunday from noon to 3:15p.m., and again on Monday from 4:45 to 6:45p.m. Call Jon at 283-2006 or Sue at 289-4831 for information. -The Observer 

...................................... Brian Broderick Design Assistant .......... Kathleen Moran 
Design Editor ................. Lisa Tugman 
Viewpoint Layout ................ Laura Mani Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Mike Buc 
Accent Layout ................ Rachel O'Hara ................. Smed Laboe 
ND Day Editors ............... Kathy McKee News Editor ..................... Scott Bearby 
Photographer ........... ....... Suzanne Poch Copy Editor ............ Kendra Lee Murrill 
Typists... Wendy Burek Sports Copy Editor... Steve Megargee 
.................................. Jenn Conlon Viewpoint Copy Editors ....... Tony Lang 
Tile Olleen« (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblen« is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Obeener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, I odiana 46H6. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Aaodatecl Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Nancy Drew too good to serve as role model 
I'm packing away my Nancy Drew books. 
I'll miss seeing those 53 books lining my shelf like a yellow picket fence. But my room back home is getting too crowded, and I need the extra space. 
I remember buying my first Nancy Drew mystery at a garage sale when I was seven years old. Nancy's detective skills fascinated me, so I decided to purchase the entire collec­tion. 
Around the same time, my sister began reading Trixie Belden stories. Like Nancy, Trixie was a young sleuth with a penchant for solving mysteries. But she didn't appeal to me as much as Nancy. 
Trixie received D's on math tests. She never knew if the boy she liked was interested in her. She hated the freckles on her face and had a hard time controlling her temper. And she cried. 
Nancy, on the other hand, was almost perfect. In every book I discovered yet another one of her hidden talents. Not only was she a mar­velous actress and a charming hula dancer, but she could play "Amazing Grace" on the bag­pipes and decipher Egyptian hieroglyphics as well. She even performed with a world class figure skater. 
I envied Nancy's thrilling adventures. She trailed "mysterious strangers," discovered hidden passageways, and rescued drowning children. 
Nancy was surrounded with loyal friends and loving relatives. "Pretty-yet-plump" Bess and George-the-tomboy rescued Nancy on several occasions. They'd send for the police whenever she was missing and would help her set traps for the bad guys. Nancy's father, attorney Car­son Drew, understood when his daughter missed dinner or came in late at night because she was busy chasing criminals. Though he was concerned for her safety, the wise and compas­sionate Mr. Drew always let Nancy continue her sleuthing. 
I always believed that I'd somehow evolve into a Nancy Drew as I grew older. I thought that by the time I was 18like Nancy, I'd be just as perfect as she was. 
But I'm 21 now and still far from perfect. When I was a freshman, I needed a tutor to pass calculus. I've ice skated since I was nine, but I still can't do even the most basic jump, let alone skate with a world champion. And, like the Trixie Belden I disdained, I still cry. 
My family and I argue about whose turn it is to take the trash to the curb or wash the dishes. 
LEARN 


ND '61
ironwood


CPR, 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines heers liquors.



PLEASE. 
(219) 272-7144 

Take a ltfesav1ng Red Cross CPR course. 11·2.'i NOHTil IRONWOOD DH SOUl fl m:ND. 1:'< -~Ci(j,):'>
+American Red Cross 
~ 



FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
FRESHMAN CHICAGO TRIP SATURDAY, FE~RUARY n, 1988 
MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY, ART TNSTITUn~, WATER TOWER PLACE, LOOP, BREAKFAST, LUNCH, DINNER IN A RESTAURANT $15.00 
BE PURCHASED IN THF FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES OFFICE

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2---~HURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4 
FRESHMEN 


Kathy Scarbeck 
Accent Copy Editor 
My mother yells when I miss supper or come 
home "too late" at night. 
One of my best friends and I weren't speaking to each other last semester; I guess I don't have Nancy's even temperament. 
I'm not as fearless as Nancy either. A few years ago I was on a train leaving East Ger­many, and a man asked me to give him my travel visa. He claimed he wanted to help a friend sneak out of the country. Of course, Nancy would have probed the situation further to discover if this "mysterious stranger" was actually a spy. I, on the other hand, merely turned away from him and went back to my train compartment without saying a word. 
I suffered through a job interview a few weeks ago, my stomach knotted with tension. I don't remember Nancy ever being nervous during an interview, extending a sweaty palm to a prospective employer. In fact, I don't remem­ber her having a job at all. 
Maybe I won't pack away all the books. Once in awhile it might be nice to escape to a world where everybody lives happily ever after. 







areers 

Brought to you by Career and Placement Services 

Career and Placement Services: 
When opportunity knocks, open the door 
s students descend the stairway just of Career and Placement Services, is toAinside the Juniper Road entrance to cash in on your enthusiasm early in your the Hesburgh Library, they may feel college experience. He recommends "look­somewhat lost as there are no visible signs ing upon your transition from the campus to of activity. Yet, once they open the door the business world as a challenge requiring leading to the southeast corner of the base­enthusiastic preparation. The sophomore ment, they discover a focal point of activity year is not too early to begin spending time and opportunity. and energy in preparing for an exciting and A quick look around will reveal an open rewarding career." air reception area, a 400 square-foot room There are many ways to begin your career containing shelves of books and literature, planning through Career and Placement office space for thirteen people, a comfort­Services. The career resources library con­able waiting room, 25 interviewing rooms tains a wealth of information for students in and a small conference area designed for different stages of their career development. workshops and meetings. What attracts Reference guides and books on life plan­thousands of students every year to this ning, self -assessment, career decision ­remote corner of the library? making, resume writing, and interviewing William Shakespeare wrote, "We must skills are contained in the library. Pamphlets take the current when it serves, or lose our on specific careers and literature from over ventures." This is another way of encour­500 employers are available. aging one to take advantage of opportunities In addition to the library, students are en­couraged to attend workshops and presen­tations held throughout the year on such topics as resume writing, interviewing, mail
"Career and Placement has 
campaigns, opportunities in small business,
earned a reputation for helpful 
graduate school information, and summer 
service and proven results." internships. 
Also, there's DISCOVER, a computer ­
assisted career information and guidance 
when they present themselves. The south­system. The use of DISCOVER allows stu­
east corner of the library basement is the dents to conduct a self -inventory as well 
home of Career and Placement Services. as an in -depth exploration of specific oc­
Students have come to realize the opportu­cupations. 
nities available there and are taking advan­Perhaps it's in the individual attention 
tage of them. given to students where Career and Place­
Jennifer Garlitz, a senior majoring in me­ment has earned a reputation for helpful chanical engineering, states, "I met with a service and proven results. Whether it's professional staff member in Career and meeting with underclass students to discuss Placement Services at the end of my junior personal career goals, assisting graduating year to discuss my career options. The students with interview preparation through thought of entering the business world was videotaped mock interviews, or advising an a bit frightening. We spent time assessing alumnus concerned with career mobility, the my strengths, skills, and interests and decid­office staff's mission is to meet individual ing on the best approach to market my concerns. qualifications to specific companies. Since Amy Wetzel, a 1987 graduate in psychol­that time almost nine months ago, I've had ogy, is currently employed as a brand as­ten on -campus interviews and have mailed sistant with the Procter and Gamble Com­my resume to five companies. I'm excited pany in Cincinnati, Ohio. Reflecting on her about the prospects." experiences with the Career and Placement 
Garlitz' situation is an example of one pri­Services office, she asserts, "The entire staff mary service available to students through was a big help in planning my strategy from Career and Placement Services --individual the resume to the acceptance of an offer. counseling relating to self -assessment, The people in Career and Placement Ser­
CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES
decision -making, interviewing, resumes, vices were always friendly and helpful. I'm cover letters, and general career search really excited about my job and owe a great 
HESBURGH LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
strategies. deal to the individual attention I received 
(219) 23&.5200 
OBJECTIVE

Know your strengths, skills, interests, and from the placement office." 
T0 aqlar atudanra In da 

protaaalonal Uvea veloplng a aenae of pu
areas of expertise, advises Kitty Arnold, No matter what career path you pursue, 
nece...ry to arrlv. Accompllahed through laachl;;"ae and direction lor lhelr 
director of Career and Placement Services. the intense competition you will encounter 
Implement lhaae c~ ~~ career cholcaa and apeclflc 10:nd facilitating lhe Iaake 
o cea. March akllla nMdad to
"Making good decisions on the basis of your in the job market mandates that you prepare 
PROFESSIONAL

strengths requires some effort on your part," for your career as thoroughly as possible. 
Kitty Arnold, Director
EXPERIENCE Paul Reynold A
Jell Rl a, aaoclate Director Marllyn~uA..Iatanr Director 

she says. "But it's essential if you are to Career and Placement Services stands 
make smart career decisions." ready to help. 
Dell Lucaa,'r:aAaalatant Director 
Phyllla S. reer Counaelor

The key to successful career planning, Heed Shakespeare's advice. When op­
according to Jeff Rice, an assistant director portunity knocks, open the door. 
HANG IN THERE SENIORS! 
Yes, graduation is approaching and on-campus interviews are numbered, but you're still in the driver's seat. 
HAVE YOU ... 
...updated your resume? 
..:reaffirmed your interest with company contacts? 
...narrowed your search to one or two fields or industries? 
...focused on a specific geographic area? 
...expanded your network? (Spread the word to family, friends, former 
employers, faculty, etc. that you're still looking) 
...personalized every contact? 
...set daily goals? 
...remained confident? 
...VISITED THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT OFFICE?
l............................................ ---.-... ----­




Why the profile form? 
W 
hat do Procter and Corporate representatives Before filling out the profile, stu­Gamble, Ernst and review the profiles prior to their on­dents must assess themselves and Whinney, Leo Burnett, campus recruiting date to gain a analyze the industries and func­TRW, the Morgan Bank, and Exxon general overview of the students tional areas in which they are in­have in common? These corpora­in majors appropriate for their terested. Only by doing this will tions are just a sampling of the needs. "By looking at a student's they be able to formulate a career more than 160 firms which ordered career objective, grades, work ex­goal targeted to their future aspira­profiles of incoming seniors from perience, leadership positions, and tions. Preparation is the key. the Career and Placement Ser­references," states Jeff Yingling, 
"Filling out the profile at the endvices office last summer. Associate Investment Banking with of last year," asserts Paul Bier­The student profile, a two -sided busse, a senior majoring in finance,form containing much of the same "required me to do a lot of thinking information as on a resume, must about myself --my strengths and
JUNIOR PROFILE
be completed by all seniors who weaknesses, my likes and dislikes.
interview on campus. "Our office 

WORKSHOPS 
As a result, my job search efforts uses a standardized form," ex­have been better focused."
plains Paul Reynolds, associate 
April 6 7:00p.m.
director of Career and Placement 

April 7 7:00p.m. 
Kevin Fitzpatrick, a mechanicalServices," so that employers can engineering senior, continues, "In

April 11 7:00p.m.
scan it and locate key information the fall semester alone, I received 

April 12 7:00p.m.
about a student quickly and easily." 
four or five letters from companies

April 13 7:00p.m. 
which expressed an interest in my employers will order booklets this 
Since a large number of background. Waiting until my

All held in 123 Nieuwland 
summer containing profiles of stu­
senior year to complete the profile dents in the various majors at Notre 

Science Hall 
would have been a big mistake." Dame, juniors are strongly encour­aged to submit their form prior to Shortly after spring break, a leaving campus in May. In a volatile The First Boston Corporation, "we number of workshops will be spon­job market, students should use get a fairly good idea of who might sored by Career and Placement every means possible to have their possess an interest in and aptitude Services so that juniors can learn credentials reviewed by different for the position for which we will the most effective ways to market organizations. "Including your be interviewing. After identifying themselves on the profile. Attend­profile in the booklet for students these students, we correspond with ing one of these sessions and then in your academic discipline," them to encourage their atten­spending time to carefully fill out Reynolds concludes, "gives you a dance at our pre -recruiting function the form can be a major contribu­competitive advantage over your and also to encourage scheduling ting factor to conducting a success­peers." an interview with us." ful job campaign. 


A Preview For Juniors 
Students busy researching careers In the Career Library located In the Southeast corner of the Hesburgh Library basement. 
Sept 
Oct Nov Dec 

Registration for Interviews Resume Workshops
Arts and Letters Career Day 
Second Interview Workshops Sign-up Orientations 
Mail Campaign Workshops Placement Nights 
Law School Caravan 
Interviewing Workshops 
Summer Jobs and Videotaped Mock Interviews 
MBA Mini-forum 
Internships Registration Industry Day Meet the Firms Night 
Employer Receptions 
On-Campus Interviews Counseling By Appointment 
Feb Mar

Jan Apr 
Videotaped Mock Interviews Resume Workshops Small Business Workshop 
Graduate School Panel Sign-up Orientations 
Mail Campaign Workshops Junior Orientation Sessions 
Junior Profile Sessions Summer Intern Workshop 
Second Interview Workshops Interviewing Workshops 
Employer Receptions On-Campus Interviews Counseling By Appointment 
Profile forms are available In the Career and Placement Office. 



Summer internships: Valuable experiences 
0 ne of the major goals of  Graham, coordinator of summer in­ 
composing a resume or un­ ternships, stresses that "in addition  
dertaking a job interview is  to a packet outlining the process  
to market yourself, your qualifica­ of applying for on -campus inter­ 
tions, and your achievements.  views for summer positions, we  
Employers are interested in learn­ post job announcements. We also  
ing about your background -­col­ have many resource guides and  
lege activities, leadership posi­ books in our Career Library specif­ 
tions, grades, skills, and work  ically on summer internships."  
experience.  "When I was applying for jobs  
Highlighting the important  last year," says Paul Spieldenner,  
aspects of a summer internship is  a senior finance major who worked  
an excellent way for seniors to  this past summer for Edward D.  
show employers that they have  Jones, Inc., an investment firm in  
successfully applied their knowl­ St. Louis, "I found the reference  
edge to a practical work situation.  material in the Career and Place­ 
Steve Waller, controller of the  ment Services office to be very  
procurement division of General  useful. To find a great deal of valu­ 
Mills, asserts, "When interviewing  able information in one central  
seniors on campus, we take a care­ location, I would suggest that  
ful look at their career -related ex­ juniors spend some time in the  
periences. I've found that many of  placement office."  
the students who have worked in  Students should develop anum­ 
a corporate setting gain a certain  ber of job search strategies to in­ 
maturity we are looking for in a can­ crease their chances for success  
didate."  in finding relevant summer employ­ 
"When we see a summer intern­ ment. Composing an effective  
ship on a resume," states Philip  cover letter and resume, targeting  
Delaney, vice president, commer­ a particular geographic location,  
cial banking with The Northern  developing a contact network, and  
Trust Company in Chicago, "we  writing firms early are just a few  
look at it as a bonus -­an added  suggestions.  
feature that tends to round out a  Kevin McCarthy, a senior elec­ 
student's background. Gaining a  trical engineer who worked last  
sense of what goes on in the busi­ summer for IBM in Rochester, Min­ 
ness environment, both profes­ nesota, believes that "putting forth  
sionally and socially, gives stu­ the effort to obtain the internship  
dents confidence as they begin  has given me an added edge in  
interviewing in their senior year."  interviews this year.  
Summer internships are difficult  Spieldenner continues, "As a  
to obtain. Before doing anything  result of my experience, I have  
else, students must determine the  been better able to focus on what  
types of positions in which they are  I really want to do after graduation."  
interested. In this way, they will be  Juniors and sophomores should  
able to target companies in one or  understand the benefits of these  
two industries.  summer experiences and use the  
Stop by the Career and Place­ many resources available to con­ 
ment Services office. Nancy  duct a successful job search.  

-
..· 
.. . 
Bob Williams, promotion manager for WSBT-TV, discusses career opportunities with a student at Arts and LeHers Career Day. 

Non-profit careers can be profitable 
D 
o you occasionally consider yourself a round peg searching for opportunities in a job market known for square holes? Many who fit into such a category will turn to career possi­bilities in the nonprofit sector. 
Perhaps the nonprofit sector can best be defined by its characteris­tics. Terry W. McAdam, in his book 
Careers in the Nonprofit Sector, 
identifies several characteristics of the sector: 
• The main purpose of the nonprofit organization's existence is to carry out good work or to advocate, pursue, or advance a cause; 

assistance, mental health, services to senior citizens, volunteer ser­vices, and youth organizations. 
Job search strategies for the nonprofit sector closely parallel strategies utilized in any other job search endeavor. The same care­ful attention must be given to the preparation of your resume with cover letters customized for each targeted organization. 
"Many people find direct involvement in the nonprofit sector to be personally rewarding." 
• The heart of the sector is volun­Finally, before making your deci­tary in nature (voluntary action sion, research each targeted non­teaches virtue--caring for others); profit organization individually.



Small business is 
• There is great diversity and va­Learn something of its history, 
riety in the sector; and people, and programs. Most impor­tantly, have a clear understanding
• The sector is labor intensive -­

of the organization's purposeits people and their services are

big business 
ancYor mission. the output rather than manufac­
A 
n often overlooked source cent were to be hired by companies secure in their economic health as To identify names, titles, and or­
tured goods.

of employment for recent with fewer than 200 employees. a larger, more well -established or­ganizations for your target list, the 
college graduates is small Aside from the increasing num­ganization." Depending on your viewpoint, Career and Placement Services li­business. Frequently, it is only the bers of positions available, why are Another reason for the reluc­these characteristics may prove to brary is a good place to research largest corporations which recruit some people attracted to jobs in tance of some students to seek em­be very positive. Many people find various nonprofit organizations. candidates on campus. "There­small businesses? "You won't gen­ployment with small businesses is direct involvement in the nonprofit Kitty Arnold, director, Career and fore, large companies are the focus erally find formal training programs, that information about their job sector to be personally rewarding, Placement Services, recommends of a great deal of attention among specialization in one functional openings is less readily available, while affording challenges to gain the library's alternative career sec­graduating students," according to area, or a structured set of work according to Marilyn Bury, an as­professional satisfaction. tion. According to Arnold, direc­Dell Lucas, career counselor in the responsibilities in a small busi­sistant director of Career and There are many nonprofit organ­tories and informational publica­Career and Placement Services of­ness," Lucas states. "The Midwest Placement Services. "Few small izations. A representative listing tions about non-profit fice. "Students see very little of the College Placement Association businesses publicize their job might include such headings as organizations may be located in the small business sector. However, looked into small businesses and openings, publish annual reports or abortion, adoption, adult educa­alternative career section. they should be aware that small identified six aspects of employ­recruiting literature, or come to tion, child abuse, correctional ser­Could this sector --the nonprofit business dominates the American ment which make those employers campus to interview students. That vices, drug abuse prevention, legal sector --be for you? economy. Ninety-five percent of attractive: opportunity for growth, makes it much more difficult for stu­the 14 million companies in the broader functional responsibilities, dents to conduct a job search." 
U.S. are small, employing fewer greater level of comfort for the in­To help students investigate jobs than 100 workers," Lucas reports. dividual worker because of with small businesses, the Career 
What's That Salary Really Worth? 
familiarity, often greater earnings and Placement Services office is According to a publication of the potential, immediate visibility, and conducting a workshop on March 
To compare salary offers from one city to another, you need Small Business and Private Enter­the opportunity to acquire knowl­24 open to any interested student. 
to know the cost of living in each. With 100.0 as the average cost prise Committee of the College of edge of all aspects of the busi­"We plan to offer practical sugges­
of living index, notice the dramatic differences among major cities. Business Administration Advisory ness." tions on how to identify potential Council at Notre Dame, between "There are, of course, some firms and how to develop effective 
Atlanta 110.6 New York 141.2 1982 and 1984 six million new jobs drawbacks to working for a small job search strategies for this type 
Baltimore 106.9 Philadelphia 120.5 were created, but positions with company," added Kitty Arnold, of employment," according to Bury. 
Cleveland 99.2 Phoenix 109.5 Fortune 500 companies declined director of Career and Placement She also noted that the publica­
Dallas 108.9 San Diego 119.9
by 1.5 million. Making up the deficit Services. "In smaller organiza­tions on small business prepared 
Hartford 120.2 Seattle 105.2
in employment was the small busi­tions, you often find limited support by the Midwest College Placement 
Los Angeles 115.3 St. Louis 98.6
ness sector, a trend which is cer­services such as secretarial or data Association and the College of tain to continue. An article in the processing assistance. Starting Business Administration Advisory 
Miami 110.3 St. Paul 103.1 May 27, 1985 issue of Business salaries and benefit packages may Council are available as handouts 
New Orleans 96.6 Week indicated that of the two mil­not be as attractive as those of­in the Career and Placement Ser­lion new workers employers fered by larger corporations. Also, vices office for any interested stu­
From the American Chamber of Commerce Researchers Association 
planned to hire that year, 81 .6 per-small businesses may not be as dent. 


Management consulting --Big Eight style 
T oday's business problems  tiona! categories. They are the In­ brought about the  most effective  ties, an associate consultant gains  !ices  which  are  reflected  in  the  
are complex, often represe­ formation  Services,  Productivity,  solution."  expertise in  a wide variety of in­ types of majors they wish to inter­ 
nting  several  problems  and  Business  Planning  Depart­ At  Coopers  and  Lybrand  and  dustries  including manufacturing,  view  on  campus. Unlike Coopers  
wrapped into one, so management  ments.  The MCS division  serves  most other Big 8 firms, recent col­ distribution,  health  care  and  and Lybrand which looks for MIS  
looks for people to provide advice  businesses of three major types:  lege graduates are hired at the as­ finance,and he or she has the op­ majors,  Touche  Ross  considers  
and assistance. Management con­sulting services were developed in response to these requirements for  "Management consulting is a demanding  portunity to work with experienced people from many areas of busi­ness.  bachelor's degree graduates in any discipline who have some com­puter background to become re­ - 
an advisory service which can pro­ profession but it offers continual  When  hiring  associate consul­ search  associates.  Arthur Ander­ 
vide objective analysis and viable solutions for business problems.  challenge and excitement."  tants, employers are searching for well -rounded individuals, accor­ sen's consulting practice lends itself more readily to students with  
When presented with a business  ding to Wendy Cain,  a director in  CAPP,  engineering,  math,  eco­ 
problem,  a  management consul­ manufacturing,  health  care,  and  sociate consultant level. An asso­ Information Services with Coopers  nomics, or finance academic back­ 
tant  gathers and  analyzes facts,  banking organizations.  ciate  consultant's  responsibilities  and Lybrand. "In evaluating candi­ grounds, according to Arnold.  - 
develops findings and recommen­ Information Services consultants  include  identifying  sources  of  dates we look for depth in business  Colleen Conway of Coopers and  
dations, and implements and sup­ are  involved in strategic systems  meaningful information  to collect,  and technical  courses  as  well  as  Lybrand  noted  that management  
ports  a  solution.  Encompassing  planning, requirements definition,  collate, and  structure in  a  useful  work experience and campus ac­ consulting is a demanding profes­ 
these core activities is selling not  and the design and implementation  format for further analysis; identi­ tivities. People relations and good  sion but highly recommends it be­ 
only the "engagement" but also the  of information systems. According  fying weaknesses or limitations in  listening skills are also important."  cause it offers continual challenge  
company and its people.  to Jim Jestus, Chicago Partner-in­ the  data  collection;  interpreting  Other desirable characteristics in­ and excitement.  
Charge of Information Services for  data needs; preparing and main­ clude  self  confidence,  initiative,  
Coopers and Lybrand,  a Big 8  Coopers  and  Lybrand,  "Informa­ taining legible working papers; and  creativity, and leadership ability.  
public accounting firm, has a very  tion Services consulting draws on  assisting engagement managers in  Kitty Arnold, Notre Dame Career  Contributing to this article were  
large consulting practice. Its Man­ the technical and strong logic skills  preparing for sales meetings and  and Placement Services director,  Wendy Cain, Colleen Conway, and  
agement  Consulting  Service  for our people. The greatest reward  client proposals.  reports that there are some differ­ Roger Wilson, all with Coopers and  
(MCS) division is divided into func­ is recognition by the client that we  In assuming these responsibili­ ences in the Big 8 consulting prac- Lybrand.  

-I• •t d page 4
Careers Ufl )ffi) e \\ <lilst·n·t·r Sl'~:c1 \L .\1>\'l·:lri"ISI:\<; SE<"TI<J\ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1988 



What employers are looking for 
W 
hat are employers really or the group leader for a class proj­looking for when they ect. ask the question, "Can Georgene Gorrell, human re­you tell me about yourself?" While sources officer for The Northern there is not a perfect answer to that Trust Company, summarizes these question, there is a way to be points well, "Beyond some of the prepared to answer it as intel­traditional evaluative areas of aca­ligently and effectively as possible. demic performance and extracur­Marketing yourself is the key to ricular involvements, there are success in every job search. more subjective characteristics It is important to be knowledge­upon which we base our decision able in your area of study, but cer­to consider someone for hire. tain characteristics also make you These qualities include leadership, an attractive candidate. Personal teamwork, motivation, initiative, qualities you have developed and adaptability. Because these throughout your lifetime can be are subjective areas it's important most beneficial as you begin your that students give examples of career. According to Tom Russell, when and how these qualities were regional sales manager for Ciba developed. Anyone can make Corning Diagnostics Corporation, claims about their qualifications, "I look for individuals who are but the student who supports their bright, competitive, and confident. claims with real-life experiences is Being prepared in an interview is the one who will appeal to the em­
ployer. Know yourself and sell it to the employer."
is Along with identifying your skills, 
''Marketing yourself 
you must formulate career goals.the key to success in Think about your future and how every job search." you want to apply your skills. Re­search various employment oppor­tunities, and decide where you can important and having career goals best apply your abilities. You are shows motivation. The Notre Dame not expected to have your goals environment brings out the best of planned out in great detail. But these qualities because of its aca­having thought about your future demic excellence and tradition of exhibits maturity and the accep­
success." tance of responsibility. 
It is also important to identify the When asking the question, "Can skills you have developed through you tell me about yourself?", extracurricular activities, work ex­employers are most concerned 
perience, and coursework. with your ability to communicate Employers are looking for leader­your skills, interests, and goals. Be ship ability, initiative, organiza­succinct and confident. According tional and time management skills, to Howard Figler's The Complete and self-discipline. In the interview, Job-Search Handbook, "Your abil­communicate these attributes by ity to communicate your worth is a citing examples. Being a student function of your ability to recognize organization officer, resident assis­value in your own experience and 
tant, or musician often reflects see how it can be translated into leadership ability, time manage­new capabilities." You've worked ment, and discipline. You've shown hard for your degree. Marketing initiative and organizational skills if yourself well is the final step toward you are a writer for The Observer a rewarding career. 

First impressions: Your cover letter 
0 
ne of your more important ident, human resources with the marketing tools is the letter Amway Corporation in Ada, Mic­that accompanies your higan, has identified several resume. Often referred to as the considerations to keep in mind cover letter, its goal is to create when composing your letter. action on your behalf. Three pri­• Highlight what you can do for the mary purposes of the cover letter firm in the first or second para­are to create interest in your graph. qualifications, to introduce your • Keep your letter short and lively. resume, and to request an inter­It should be limited to three or four view. · paragraphs, and not exceed one 
page. 
• Make judicious use of spacing for attractive layout and easy

"Keep your letter short 
reading. and lively." • Refer to your enclosed resume-to identify further qualifications. 
• Request a personal interview and 
Jeff Rice, an assistant director follow -up with a telephone call. of Career and Placement Services, • Send your letter to a specific in­emphasizes that your chances of dividual, using the person's name being selected for an interview are and title whenever possible. enhanced if your cover letter is pro­• Proofread your letter several fessional and error-free. Rice also times to make certain it is gram­
-
stresses the importance of match­matically correct with no misspell­ing position requirements (stated ings. and implied) against your qualifica­Remember, your cover letter tions. "speaks" for you in your absence. 
For the sake of efficiency, you You are not present during the may wish to develop a standard reading to clarify and emphasize 
-

Mike Boyle, a 1986 graduate in accountancy, discusses career opportunities with Maureen O'Neill, a senior accountancy major. 

What is involved in applying to graduate school? 
hen applying to graduate sions purposes. There are several ence. "Sometimes a personal in­W school it is very impor­opportunities to take the exam, but terview is required in the decision tant to be aware of the you must register approximately a making process. If an interview is time factor. Even as a junior, it is month in advance. Timing is very not required, request to meet with not too early to begin the process. important as exam scores accom­a member of the faculty. You'll get Allow yourself time to research pany the application. It is advanta­a feel for the program and, at the various programs, register and geous to take the exam early, be­same time, show a strong interest prepare for the entrance exam, cause if you are dissatisfied with in that institution," suggests complete application forms, apply your scores. you can retake the Marilyn Bury, an assistant director for financial aid and, finally, accept test. The GRE Information Bulletin of Career and Placement Services. an offer. The following outline contains registration material, a Fellowships, assistantships, refers to general graduate pro­schedule of exams, and testing scholarships, grants, and loans are grams exclusive of professional locations. A copy of the bulletin can various forms of financial aid to specialties (MBA, Law, Medical) be obtained from Assistant Dean graduate students. Teaching and which have a somewhat unique Robert Waddick, College of Arts research fellowships and assis­process. and Letters, or Dr. Peter Grande, tantships are also valuable profes­Freshman Year of Studies. You sional experiences as well as pro­may also write to: viding financial support for your
The Peterson's Guide to 
education. Information about finan­
Graduate and Professional Pro­
Graduate Record Examination cial aid is generally found in the
grams is a good place to begin Educational Testing Service application material from each in­
your research. It is divided into CN 6000 stitution.
graduate programs by field of study Princeton, NJ 08541-6000 The logistics of applying to
and provides basic information graduate school can be extensive.
such as tuition, admission require­Similar to most comprehensive Your careful research and planning
ments, and degrees awarded. aphtude tests, the GRE can be dif­will allow you to make a wise
Begin with a selection of approxi­ficult. Many students have found choice. But most importantly,
mately 1 0 schools and narrow your that test preparation is quite help­choose a program which will lead
choices after further research. The ful. Several books have been pub­to a fulfilling and exciting educa­
Hesburgh Library contains college lished to help prepare for the exam tional experience. Dr. Robert E.
catalogs on microfiche. Determine 
which programs are most appeal­and can be found in most Gordon, Vice President for Ad­bookstores. vanced Studies at Notre Dame,
ing and write for application materi­Complete application materials shares his thoughts, "Graduate
al. Although you will have one or stu­
two top choices, do not limit your­carefully. You may be required to education seeks to prepare submit a writing sample. Keep in dents as lifelong scholars in a spe­
self. Keep in mind that admission mind that several people will be cific discipline regardless of their
is a very competitive process. reviewing your material. The com­ultimate career path in life; this Most graduate schools require mittee will consider many points: preparation for the practice of that you take the Graduate Record undergraduate grade point scholarship is the brightest form of Exam (GRE). This is a standard­average, GRE scores, coursework, academic activity and it adds zest, ized aptitude test administered application materials, and, in some beauty, and the love of knowledge nationwide and used for admis-cases, professional work experi-to one's life." 
SECOND SEMESTER PROGRAMS 
February 4 at 6:30 p.m. MAIL CAMPAIGNS 124 Hayes-Healy  March 24 at 4:00 p.m. SMALL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES LaFortune -­Foster Room  
February 8 at 4:00 p.m. RESUME WRITING Hesburgh Library Lounge  March 28 at 7:00 p.m. JUNIOR ORIENTATIONS 127 Nieuwland Science Hall  
February 11 at 4:00 p.m. RESUME WRITING Hesburgh Library Lounge  March 29 at 7:00 p.m. JUNIOR ORIENTATIONS 127 Nieuwland Science Hall  
February 23 at 4:00 p.m. SECOND INTERVIEWS 119 O'Shaughnessy  April 6 at 6:30 p.m. WHERE ARE YOU IN YOUR JOB SEARCH? 119 O'Shaughnessy  
February 24 at 6:30 p.m. SECOND INTERVIEWS 119 O'Shaughnessy  April 20 at 4:00 p.m. GRADUATE SCHOOL PANEL LaFortune -­Foster Room  
March 2 at 12:30-4:00 p.m. GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY Center for Continuing Education  

form for your cover letter. Thus, with minor revisions you can produce a customized letter to tar­get a specific position you plan to pursue. Dwight Sawyer, vice pres-specific points. Therefore, it is im­perative that the cover letter represents you accurately and ef­fectively. Its purpose on your behalf cannot be overstated. 
----........ --------------------------.... --... "' w-.,._ ._ • ,.. ...•,.,.,-.•.-. ·' .-,..,.,.,.,. •"~' .,. .,. •·" .w • ....... • •· •·• " y • " ~ ....._,., "· • "· •. •· •~·f't. .,.,., ...._ •· --~ •-,.. ,.•.._ •. • '• ~-" "· "._. W' "' "' " W Y • ,. • '9 •. 'P .... "
'I • .,,"'I 'P 'F • •• 'C. 11' W '9 Y • T ~-1 

Thursday, February 4, 1988 The Observer page 3 

This cross stands atop an altar overlooking the Sea of Galilee in Israel. The place of prayer is located near Tabogoth, the Church of Loaves and Fishes. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position:  
News Editor (2)  Ad Design Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  Ad Manager  
Sports Editor  Production Manager  
Accent Editor  Projects Manager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Systems Manager  
Photo Editor  Controller  
Graphic Arts Manager  

Applications should include a two page personal statement and a brief resume. 
The deadline for applications is Tuesday, February 9. 
For further Information contact Chris Murphy .. at The Observer (239-5303) 


OBUD in charge of voting 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
News Staff 
Enforcing the rules estab­lished by the Student Senate will be the principle task of Om­budsman during this year's student government elections, according to Jim Grace, OBUD official. 
OBUD will be overseeing the elections to make sure "no rules are broken," said Grace. This will be accomplished, he explained, by the Judiciary Council of each dorm oversee­ing the the election activities of the candidates. 
"We make sure the J-council (of each dorm) follows the rules," explained Grace, "and in turn, (that) the students fol­low the rules." 
Grace said OBUD's running of student elections has become ~ m <>tt..... ,..f tr~rlitlf\l'! <>nrl Stu­
dent Government President Patrick Cooke confirmed, "OBUD has always run the elections." 
Cooke explained that OBUD "is an autonomous organiza­tion with no vested interests in the elections." He said its im­partial, apolitical nature makes it "ideally the best or­ganization to coordinate the elections." 
OBUD has overseen the stu­dent government elections for the past several years, with the exception of last year. Accor­ding to Cooke, the Student Sen­ate overruled an OBUD deci­sion involving a deadlines violation during the elections in 1986. In response, he said, OBUD resigned from the over­seeing of the elections last year. 

This year the new OBUD management has agreed to reassume the responsibility with the implicit understand­ing "to always remember, we (OBUD) are answerable to the Student Senate," said Grace. 
Cooke pointed out that it is clearly stated in the election bylaws that any decision made by OBUD can be overturned by the senate, but he added that it is "very rare" that the senate overturns an OBUD decision. 
In addition to overseeing the elections, OBUD gathers and disseminates information· for student government, said Grace. It also lobbies for stu­dent interests in affairs with the administration, student government and other large campus organizations, added Cooke. 
Court overrul-es 'Baby M' verdict 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J.-Paying a woman to have a baby amounts to illegal baby-selling, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled Wednesday in the landmark Baby M case. But the toddler will live with her father, with visiting rights for her biologi­cal mother. 
The court's 7-0 decision over­ruled all but the custody deci­sion of a lower court judge in the dispute over a surrogate agreement gone sour. 
Mary Beth Whitehead-Gould bore a daughter nearly two years ago for William Stern and his wife, Elizabeth. She was artificially inseminated and agreed to accept $10,000 for having the child, but when the girl was born, she changed her mind, refused the money and fled to Florida. 
Authorities tracked her down after nearly three months and returned the child to the Sterns. 
In its decision, the high court said the contract between Whitehead-Gould and the Sterns violated New Jersey adoption laws because of the payment to her. 
"This is the sale of a child, 

Happy 21st Birthday* * Susan Elizabeth Hrach! .1f. 
Thank You *{or

*•,, 
Twenty-One" der{ul Years. 
* 
1f 
Love Always, 
* 
Mom, Dad & Steve, 
Lady, tool 

UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES NEEDS STUDENT ASSISTANCE 
FOR 
Junior Parents Weekf,nd 
~ebruary 19, 20, & 21, 1988 
300 Energetic Students Needed for this Traditional Event. 

Notre Dame Students -Saint Mary's Students Holy Cross Students -IUSB Students Sign-up at South Dining Hall Lower Level or Call 239-7814 


Waiters, Waitresses, Laborers, Expediters are all needed! 

or at the very least, the sale of a mother's right to her child, the only mitigating factor being that one of the pur­chasers is the father," the court said. 
But the justices found no il­legality in allowing women to volunteer as surrogates, pro­vided the agreement allows the mothers to change their minds about giving up parental rights. 
The judges said Whitehead­Gould is entitled to see her daughter, and directed a lower­court judge to set guidelines within three months. They also voided the adoption of the baby by Stern. 
Because the surrogacy con­tract is invalid, the court said, the case boiled down to a cus­tody dispute. 
The court said it closely scrutinized both households and found it would be in Baby M's best interest to grow up with the Sterns, who call her Melissa. 
Baby M spawned an interna­tional debate over surrogate motherhood, and the court in­vited state legislatures to tackle the sensitive issues sur­rounding new reproductive technology. 
"The unfortunate events that have unfolded illustrate that its unregulated use can bring suf­fering to all involved," the jus­tices said in the nation's first ruling by a state supreme court on a broken surrogate contract. 
"I'm glad that the months of uncertainty are over," Whitehead-Gould said at a tearful news conference. "I did not begin this as a public crusade, but I am gratified to see that surrogacy has been discredited and delighted to know that my relationship with my daughter will continue for the rest of our lives." 
The Sterns' attorney, Gary Skoloff, said his clients won the most critical issue, custody. They will fight to deny visita­tion rights to Whitehead-Gould "in hopes of trying to give this child some kind of security and privacy," he added. 
During the non-jury trial before Superior Court Judge Harvey Sorkow, the two sides battled over who could best raise the child. A secretly re­corded telephone conversation was played in which Whitehead-Gould threatened to kill herself and the baby if Stern did not let her keep her daughter. 

The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1988
page 4 
THE NCR $300,000 STAKEHOLDER ESSAY COMPETITION FOR STUDENTS 

THE MISSION 

ToCREATEVAWE 
AtNCR, we've found that in order to create value, we must first satisfy the legitimate expectations of every person with a stake in our company. We call these people our stakeholders, and we attempt to satisfy their expectations by 
promoting partnerships in which 
. . 
everyone 1s a wmner. 
• 
We believe in building mutually beneficial and enduring relationships with all ofour stakeholders, based on conducting business activities with integrity and respect. ~ 

• 
We take customer satisfaction personally: we are committed to providing superior value in our products and services on a continuing basis. 

• 
We respect the individuality of each employee andfoster an environment in which employees' creativity and productivity are encouraged, recognized, valued and rewarded. 

• 
We think ofour suppliers as partners who share our goal ofachieving the highest quality standards and the most consistent level ofservice. 

• 
We are committed to being caring and supportive corporate citizens within the worldwide communities in which we operate. 

• 
We are dedicated to creating value for our shareholders and financial communities by performing in a manner that will enhance the return on their investments. 


THECHALLENGE 
To WIN 
We're so committed to our mission that we're encouraging the next generation of leaders to re-examine America's business values. We're doing this by holding the NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition which all full-time undergraduate and graduate college or university students may enter. Entries should explore the topic: "Creating Value for All Stakeholders in · Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations." 
The student chosen as the first place winner will be awarded $50,000 cash. Plus, the entrant's school will receive $100,000 in NCR data processing equipment. The second place winner will receive $15,000 cash and the entrant's school will receive $35,000 in equipment. One hundred $1,000 awards of merit will be given to chosen participants. In addition, selected award-winning entrants will be invited to attend the first NCR International Symposium on Stakeholders to be held June 9 & 10, 1988, in Dayton, Ohio. 
THE RULES 
I) The NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition is open to any full-time undergraduate or graduate student anending an accredited college or university in the United States or its territories. 
2) Entries must be original, unpublished work on the topic: "Creating Value for All Stakeholders in Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations." Essays must not exceed 3,000 words. Areas of discussion may include, but are not limited to: Ethics, Corporate Governance, Strategic Management, Social Responsibility, or Managing Change as these topics relate to managing for stakeholders. 
3) Entries must be typed, double-spac~d on 8w· X 11" bond paper, one side only. A separate cover sheet should list the entrant's name, school, home address and title of the essay. Subsequent pages should be numbered sequentially and include the essav title in the upper right margin. Winners will be rcGuired to produce proof of current full-time college or universirv 
enrollment.. . 
4) All entries must be postmarked by March 31, 1988, and received by Aprill5, 1988 to be eligible for consideration. Submit entries to: NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition, NCR Corporation, Stakeholder Relations Division, Dayton, Ohio 45479. NCR is not responsible for, and will not consider, late, lost or misdirected entries. 
5) In the event any prize winner is a minot, the cash award will be made to his/her parent or guardian. 
6) Awards to individuals will be reported as income on 
IRS Form 1099. All taxes are the responsibilitv of the recipients. · 
7) Award winners will be required to sign publicitv releases and affidavits of eligibility and complia~ce with all rules governing the competition. Failure to return executed affidavits and releases within IS davs of receipt will cause the award to be null and void. · 
8) All entries become the property of NCR and will not be returned. 
9) By participating in this competition entrants agree to these rules and the decisions of the judges which shall be final in all respects, and further agree to the use of their names, likenesses and entries for NCR advertising and publicity purposes without any further 
compensal_lon. 

State and territorial judges will consist of panels 1hat mclude NCR stakeholders. Final selections will he madl· from state and territory winners by a national panel of JUdges. 
If clarification is necessary, call (513) 445_ o,
1667

EST. 'oam-~pm 
Award winners will be notified on or about M 
.,. b . I' . ay 16' 19R!l
'o o tam a 1St of finalists, send a self-addressed . . envelope to: • stam(ll•d 
NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition 
NCR Corporation Stakeholder Relations Division 1700 South Patterson Boulevard Dayton, Ohio 45479 
NC:Ies Mission: CreateValue for Our Stakeholders 


--------~~~ -~--------------~------­
Thursday. February 4, 1988 ­ 
Simon,  Dole  pan  
nomination  rivals  
Associated Press  beginning. I have been a strong  
and insistent voice in the halls  
Democrat  Paul  Simon  of Congress against spending  
criticized Richard Gephardt's  millions  to  kill and maim in  
high-profile opposition to Con­ Central  America,  when  that  
tra aid yesterday and said "I  money should go for housing  
haven't waited until the eve of  the  homeless,  feeding  the  
the  Iowa  caucus"  to  take  a  hungry  and  educating  our  
stand.  Republican  Bob  Dole  children," he said.  
said rivals George Bush and  Dole drew applause from re­ 
Pat  Robertson  should  drop  ligious  broadcasters  by  
their legal battles and "play by  portraying fellow  Republican  
the rules."  Pat Robertson as a victim in  
Former Secretary of State  his loss to Bush in Michigan  
Alexander Haig said President  last weekend. Bush came away  
Reagan  should  have  sent  with most of the state's 77 na­ 
troubled Attorney General Ed­ tional  convention  delegates  
win Meese III back to Califor­ after winning a series of court  
nia  years  ago  because  "you  fights against Robertson.  
can't  have  fleas  around  the  "Those of us who seek to at­ 
presidency.''  tract  delegates  to  our  cause  
Democrat  Albert  Gore  Jr.  must be willing to play by the  
jogged on the beaches of sunny  rules,"  Dole  told  a  prayer  
Florida, providing the perfect  breakfast. "They should win by  
photo contrast with frigid Iowa  going to the voters, not by going  
and  New  Hampshire,  where  The Observer I Mary Budde to the court to change the rules. Sands of time  
most  of  the  13  candidates  It's difficult  when  somebody  
searched for votes.  changes the rules in midstream  The ancient ruins of the Roman aqueduct at Caesarea  Israel. Beyond the aqueduct lie the dunes and sea  
As the House neared a show­ and when the winner becomes  mark the Romans' main location when they inhabited  of the Mediterranean.  
down on President Reagan's $36.2 million request for aid to the Contras, Gephardt and Re­ the loser. It's pretty hard to ex­plain that to the American voter."  3 arrests  made  •1n  hotel fire  
publican Rep. Jack Kemp inter­ Robertson  campaigned  in  Associated Press  Escudero  Aponte,  who  The former officials were the  
rupted their campaigning and  South  Dakota,  where  he  confessed  to  setting the fire,  first union leaders charged in  
flew to Washington to cast op­ defended volunteer registrars  SAN  JUAN,  Puerto  Rico  was allowed to plead guilty in­ the incident.  
posing votes.  who have been signing up new  (AP)-Two former Teamsters  stead on Wednesday to reduced  The union denied Wednesday  
Simon, the Illinois senator,  voters at church services. He  Union  leaders  and  a  union  charges of second degree mur­ its  leadership  had  been  in­ 
took  issue  with  Gephardt's  said  church-goers  are  ''free  member were arrested on mur­ der, arson and conspiracy. He  volved in the fire, which came  
well-publicized  arguments  agents. They're adults."  der charges Wednesday in the  was  sentenced  to  concurrent  during a labor dispute at the  
against Contra aid, including  Bush had a few harsh words  disastrous Dupont Plaza Hotel  terms totaling 30 years.  hotel.  
delivering  the  Democratic  for his opponents with less ex­ fire after the man who set the  San Juan District Attorney  "I have always said no offi­ 
response  to  Reagan's weekly  perience  in  foreign  affairs,  blaze agreed to testify against  lsmael  Betancourt  said  Es­ cial of the Teamsters has par­ 
radio address. Photographers  saying "the world won't wait"  them.  cudero Aponte agreed to testify  ticipated in this," Secretary­ 
were invited to watch Gephardt  for the man in the White House.  The fire on New Year's Eve  against three people arrested  Treasurer  Jose  Cadiz  told  a  
make  last-minute  telephone  "I don't think we want a pres­ 1986 killed 97 people and in­ Wednesday.  news conference. "This union  
calls on the vote in the Capitol.  ident who has to start all over,  jured more .than 140. It was the  Puerto Rico's Justice Depar­ is innocent of what happened  
"I haven't waited until the  go to school on foreign affairs,"  second most deadly in U.S. his­ tment identified the three as  at the Dupont Plaza."  
eve of the Iowa caucus to speak  he said at Cornell College in  tory  after  the  1946  Winecoff  Manuel de Jesus Santiago Rios,  Three other union members  
out forcefully against aid to the  Iowa.  Hotel fire in Atlanta that killed  vice  president  of  Teamsters  pleaded guilty  last  April  to  
Contras. I didn't sit on the back  Haig criticized Meese during  119.  Local 901 at the time of the fire;  federal  and  Commonwealth  
bench waiting to be drafted by  a stop in New Hampshire, re­ The arrests came after Com­ Luis Muniz Marquez, former  charges in the incident and are  
the congressional leadership,"  ferring to the various scandals  monwealth  prosecutors  union steward and butcher at  serving  sentences  ranging  
Simon said in Iowa City.  that have plagued Reagan's top  reached agreement with Hec­ the  DuPont  Plaza,  and  Luis  from 75 to 99 years.  


"I joined the effort from the justice official. 
Jk~!-/' You'll. see P 1~ the savings! 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 

•Softmate Daily or Extended Wear Contact Lenses 




$39.98 
bally W•ar Powo:~ +7.00 lo ·12.00 
Exl.ndod Wrar Powors plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted 
2 Pairs for Daily or ExtendedWear 
Contact Lenses 

$99.98
...,rb It Lo•b or 
S.ftm•l• II 
2 Different Colors 
An eye exam is required at the time of purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not be combined with any other offers or discounts. Limitea time offer. 
111111111111111""'"""' ~c~ .......,,u,uniiiiiiiiJ 
"Our eyewear prices are the lowest In fndlana, and 
our eyecare quality ts 1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUiuo..~~~.,,~llllll
unsurpassed. And that's a promCse from the doctor." B~D 

Soulb Bend Mishawaka 1111 F. lrel••• ld 506 W. Mc:Kinl!!y Bro1dmoor Plua Jt-MutJM•nm Centor ICRIII(romSeollll&al.Mall 11Uidoc.la0.C00N& 
291-4000 258-5000 
tor Escudero Aponte, 36, hours Elias Vega Rios, a former The men were sent to the before the former hotel main­utility employee. Rios Piedras State Peniten­tenance worker was to go on De Jesus Santiago Rios, a tiary when they could not post trial on 97 counts of first degree waiter, was on leave from the $2.5 million bail each. A pre­murder and one count each of hotel serving as local vice pres­liminary hearing was set for arson and conspiracy. ident. Feb. 12. 
Mecham hearing underway 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX, Ariz. •-Gov. Evan Mecham acknowledged Wednesday before a House im­peachment committee that he may have told Arizona's top police officer not to cooperate with an investigation of an al­leged death threat. 
Mecham's statement came only hours after he said he gave no such order to Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead. 
The first-term Republican governor was expected to be the committee's final witness . 
Speaker Joe Lane said the House could decide by the end of the week whether to impeach Mecham, who also faces a recall election May 17 and a cri­minal trial March 9 on charges of concealing a $350,000 cam­paign loan. 
On Wednesday morning, Mecham denied Milstead's earlier testimony that the governor told him not to cooperate with Attorney Gen­eral Bob Corbin's investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official against a former top Mecham aide. 
Sponsored by the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1988 
•
Cow to decide w1nner of $1,000 in small town fund raiser 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTOWN, Ind.-Par­ents of the Charlestown Little League are bullish on fund­raisers. They just hope the latest one doesn't plop like the candy sales. 
The parents are selling sec-

Contra 
continued from page 1 
Central America will not go away," said House Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illi­nois. 
"If you vote this package down, you'd better be prepared to bear the consequences," Michel said. "And who among you is smart enough to predict the path on which (Nicaraguan President) Daniel Ortega will take you?" 
Current aid to the rebels ex­pires Feb. 29, and Democrats pledged to hold another vote before the month is out on an alternative package of purely humanitarian aid to the rebels, and follow that up with a new emphasis on economic devel­opment aid for countries in the region which abide by terms of a five-nation peace accord. 
"We recognize that we can­not morally walk away and leave them abandoned in the jungle," said Rep. David Obey, D-Wis. 
While the House action ~illed the proposal, there was still a chance that the Senate could hold a symbolic debate and vote on the measure on Thursday. 
The most controversial part of the defeated package was $3.6 million earmarked for weapons and ammunition, which Reagan had said he would withhold until March 31 to see how cease-fire talks go between the rebels and the Managua government. Those talks are scheduled to resume Feb. 10. . 
"It doesn't give me any real pleasure to be in the position of opposing the president of the United States in a matter of foreign policy," said House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas. "We feel that the president is mistaken in this instance." 
The bulk of the aid package 
was intended to buy "non­
lethal" supplies to keep the 
rebels alive as a military force 
inside Nicaragua. That in­
cluded food and uniforms as 
well as communications gear 
and leased aircraft to deliver 
the material. 
The United States has fun­
neled more than $200 million to 
the rebels since their guerrilla 
'Yar began in 1981. Stockpiled 
weapons and other supplies 
continue to be airdropped to the 
Contras by the CIA, operating 
from Honduran bases. 
Opponents of the aid argue 
that U.S. sponsorship of the 
rebels has given the Sandinis­
tas an excuse to suppress poli­
tical dissent and avoid fulfilling 
the democratic promises made 
in their 1979 constitution. 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
tion with the committee can be expected. 
· Col. David Woods of the Air Force ROTC said the ROTC program is "a positive one and contributes positively to the Notre Dame community," and that the Air Force would be "happy to assist in validating the curriculum." 
tions of their baseball diamond for $2 per square foot. After all patches are sold, the land will be sectioned off with rope. 
Enter one cow. 
"Wherever the cow decides to do his business on the section belonging to whoever owns the square, will win $1,000," said V~ronica Russell, one of the or­ganizers. 
She says she is "one crazy parent" for being involved in such an outrageous event. 
Ticket sales will last about three months. There are 8,100 square feet of patches to be sold. 
Russell said the Diamond Drop idea surfaced because candy sales in the past weren't successful in raising funds to defray Little League expenses. 
One parent suggested an event used in another commu­nity where sections of a football field were sold to raise money for band uniforms. 
"I'm not sure we'll sell the whole field, but whatever we raise will go toward uniforms," said Russell. "Anything over that, we plan to put toward a new concession stand." 
Tickets are on sale now through April 30. 
Anyway youslice it,Domino's Pizza® •IS agreat deal! Use all or any of the coupons and save on your Call us! next purchase from Domino's Pizza. Get rolling! Notre Dame Offer ends soon. 277-2151 Domino's Pizza will deliver 1835 South Bend Ave. your pizza-hot and fresh -in less than 30 minutes. Just give us a call. Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. © 1988 Domino's PIZza. Inc. r·--------------, Ir---------------~I I I~---------------~ I I I IThink I I : $1.00 Off! : · $2.00 Off! :Thick I I I $1.00 off any 12" pizza. I $2.00 off any 16" pizza. I$5.00 I One coupon per order. Not I One coupon per order. Not I I valid with any other offer. IOnly $5.00 for a 12" pizza valid with any other offer. I . with thick crust, extra cheese and pepperoni. Good on Thursday. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer. Fast, Free Delivery •• Fast, Free Delivery·· E'l Fast, Free Delivery'" Expires: 2-29-88 ® Expires: .2-29-88 ~~ ® Expires: 2-29-88 ® Valid at participating stores only. Valid at participating stores only. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Not valid with any other offer. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays applicable sales tax. Customer pays applicable sales tax. Customer pays applicable sales tax. L-••••••••••••••~ L~-··•••••••••••~ ~----~----------~  







Viewpoint
Thursday, February 4, 1988 
Irish hockey team beginning to gel 
I have a confession to make before this weekend. 
I haven't gone to many baseketball games in my four years. In fact, bas­ketball doesn't excite me. 
You see, I'm a hockey fanatic. I'm one who has missed a bare handful of games while at Notre Dame. I ask the ticket manager for seats "the closer to the ice, the better." A good check and a flashy goal is better than a slam dunk. 
Just go and bury me in my Chicago Blackhawks jersey at center ice when I die. 
Eric Bergamo 
twenty seconds into the future 
And this year, with the Irish tearing along with a 19-2-2 record and a lO:game winning streak, the rink under the north dome of the Joyce ACC has just been heaven. 
But first, a little past history. 
There used to be a time in the past when Notre Dame hockey played against "the big boys," schools like Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota and produced players who went onto the pros such as Philadelphia Flyer (and former Irish captain) Dave Poulin. 
Then came purgatory. 
The athletic department demoted hockey to club status for the 1983-84 season. (I consider this an unforgivable sin.) The program returned to varsity status, without scholarships, the follow­ing season, but the damage had been done. 
As the hockey team struggled through three lackluster seasons, most of the students, save a few diehards like myseH, stayed away. 
Not anymore. 
The Irish have a new coach in Ric 
Shafer, a former Irish player who 
started the program at Alaska­
Fairbanks and made it successful, who 
has brought back crisp playing. The 
team will give out 10 scholarships over 
the next four years and teams like Bos­
ton College, RPI and Ferris State dot 
next year's schedule. 
And the Irish players have responded 
to the new emphasis with great play 
and a fistful of victories. 
Coach Shafer has also made going to a hockey game entertaining when there isn't action on the ice. There's the Bertie's and Barnaby's puck shoot-out, The Whip, mini-mites on ice, siren whistles and Larry the Zamboni driver. 
Add all this together, and the stu­dents, who have this slight problem of sitting on their behinds and not making some NOISE, have finally started to return to Notre Dame hockey. In the hockey press program, Shafer said fan support would help the Irish step back to prominence in college hockey. 
This weekend is the biggest series in quite some time for the Irish. Air Force is rated ahead of Notre Dame in the independent poll. If the Irish want to keep hoping for a possible NCAA bid, they're going to have to sweep the se­ries. 
The hockey team needs the students' support, there is no question. 
I want to see students jammed into the stands (admission is free with your ID, hint, hint) and screaming their lungs out from players who have skated the way to a fantastic record. Let's rock the rink and give the Air Force a wel­come they won't forget, instead of sit-

Doonesbury 
OKAY, IU TAK£ L.IWTCNANTHAI6, I tuONOY<
...ANO IF YOU /JUI&V/3 IN A 
Q/JSI0/6 NOW.'. IF YO// {.{){JI.J) TaL 15 WHO YOU
5TRON6, 8U5H-FR£1311!rl!iRJCA, 
GIVI3 M/3 >0/JR. /IJ!iR/3 IN YOUR PREVIOUS UV/35. 
8&?T 51/(Jl'S! I THIN!< THAT ~Y5 A LOT
G/3T 813HINO MY 
ABOUT A P&RSON.
CANOIOACY! 
/ \ 
ting like bumps on a tog (like at the Maryland game). 
A word of caution, though, please keep the ragging clean. The people from South Bend bring their kids and it wouldn't look good if our che~ring sounds like an Eddie Murphy concert. We can still be a rowdy zoo, but a clean zoo. 

Let's hrE>ak the 2,000 attendance mark for each game, get crazy and en­joy some hockey. I'm sure Coach Shafer and the team will appreciate the support. 
Eric Bergamo is a senior government major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
P. 0. Box Q 
Minorities should develop access 
Dear Editor: 
When the Observer asked me to write an article on the state of minorities, I experienced shock. I was shocked to hear four hundred million-plus Africans worldwide, typified as a minority. As I continued to listen to this invitation, I realized the perspective I was being asked to write from was one of an African-American matriculated at the University of Notre Dame. 
I thought it pretentious if not dis­respectful to attempt speaking on be­half of the other "minorities" on campus, the Chinese, Japanese, Arab, Native-American, or even the Mexican communities for example. Why? My participation in their historical and cui­tural experience is limited to history courses and scant acquaintances. However, being both African and diasporic, I am obligated to speak from an African perspective. A relative yet
muted one indeed. As diasporic Africans we must accept our disproportion within an institution respected for its religious orientation, i.e., its basis in the Catholic world view; for with acceptance comes respect. More importantly, we must understand this basis if we are to find our dispropor­tionate reality in it, for understanding precedes acceptance. What could the University do to better our stay here at Notre Dame? Perhaps the better question is how we can make the University better for us? We should develop that which is accessible to us. We have access to the BCAC, NAACP, business, engineering and other clubs created for our use. Despite their poverty, Africans can develop community upon their fertile founda­

to more faculty and excellent staff-­Professors Ronald Dorris and Erskine Peters, Minority Student Affairs Direc­tor Kenneth Durgans and Dr. Rosemary Phelps at the University Counseling Center --that the developing African student can tap. There is no reason for the minority seeking to "know thy self" not to crowd these or­ganizations with attendance and inun­date these scholars with conversation. Since the University itself makes its li­braries, its scholarship and its commu­nity accessible to us, we should take full advantage of them. 
What could the University do to make our stay here more pleasant? Quite simply, maintain our access. And, how we can make the University better for us? Pursue all access-lanes to our African self, develop them and focus upon our unique obligations.. .in the spirit of transcendent love ... while here ... under the Dome. 
All praise and honor are due to God! 
Carl Collins Sorin Hall February 3, 1988 
..------------.....::.___.:._~ 
New Viewpoint promotions 
The Viewpoint department would like to announce the following promotions: 
Brian Conway has been promoted from copy editor to assistant Viewpoint editor. Conway, a freshman from River Forest, Ill., joins sophomores Matt Slaughter and Chris Donnelly in this capacity. 
John Blasi, a sophomore from Palatine, Ill., Pat Zande, a freshman from Worthington, Oh., and Tony Lang, a sophomore from Bay Village Oh., have been hired as copy editors. These three join seniors Julie Collinge and Brian Broderick on the copy editing 
tion. Additionally, we now have access '-'s:::..:t::::a:::.:ff:..:.·---------------' 
Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Tomorrow's illiterate will not be the man who can't 
read,  he  will  be  the  man  
who  has  not  learned  how  
to  learn."  
Herbert  Gerjuoy  

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . . .. . Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... ..... Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor ..... . ...... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .... . . . .. ...... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor. . .. Dennis Comgan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ... Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele
the admimstrat1on of e1ther Institution. The News is repor11id as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor. .. . Sandy Cenmele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton
poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the op1nion of the majonty of the Editorial Board Photo Editor ... . .... Jim Carroll
Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners, is encouraged. 
Ace
Thursday, February 4, 1988 
Education: key to reducing alcohol tragedies 
TAMRYN ETTEN been able to make better accent WTiter choices that day. Alcohol edu­cation "raises the conscious This Is the fourth In a series of level of what happens," he articles on alcohol education said. "If there's a glimmer of at Notre Dame. 
Alcohol: 
the whole story 

work hard, they want to play hard," said BACCHUS President Jane Heisel. "The University is trying to take a pioneering stance" on alcohol. It is "not trying to take away fun, but to promote fun without drinking." 
Mike Verbaro, BACCHUS 

Treasurer and last semester's 
Chairman of Alcohol Awareness 
Week added, "It's a physical 
fact that alcohol helps you 

relax, but relaxing on the bath­
room floor shouldn't happen." 
With all this aside, the Uni­
versity is faced with a major 

problem that it cannot ignore-­
the fact that alcohol is addic­
tive and that some students at 
Notre Dame are, and will be­
come, dependent upon it. 
"Wherever there are individ­

uals, there are individuals with 
serious problems," said 
recovering alcoholic Kristin 
Williams, a senior at Notre 
Dame. 

Alcohol dependence happens in three stages--obsession, addiction, and compulsion. 
Obsession occurs when the dependent person becomes convinced that he can't do without alcohol. He feels un­comfortable in social situations without it and starts justifying his drinking to himself. When the dependent person tries to do without alcohol, finds it difficult, and begins drinking again to releave the "agony"-­this is addiction. The depen­dent person is craving alcohol. 
And when he ends up getting drunk even when he promised himself he wouldn't--this is compulsion. As he continues to drink, his ability to stop drink­ing starts to diminish. 
Those who aren't dependent now could become dependent later. Those who haven't gotten into trouble with alcohol yet, could get into trouble later. Those who haven't killed anyone while driving drunk, could kill someone later. However, by allowing education to change future choices, such tragedies can be avoided. 
as an academic setting, but a 
life setting," he said. "Alcohol 
education is a necessary life 
skill." 
Sister Joris Binder, rector of 
Pasquerilla East sees society 
as a whole becoming more 
educated and feels Notre Dame 
should be part of that. "All of 
us need to be educated and 
reeducated," she said. "We 
need to ask ourselves, 'Where 
does alcohol fit into our lives? 
Both use and abuse.' " 
Both McKenna and Binder are members of two different Notre Dame counsils formed to review alcohol as an issue on campus. McKenna is a member of The Advisory Committee for modifications of the alcohol policy that it sees as necessary. 
Student member Reggie Ward sees the Alcohol Task Force as a group consisting of people with diverse outlooks on alcohol. It is made up of administrators, professors, rectors, and students. "We know that alcohol is a major part of the social life on campus," Ward said, "but sometimes it needs to be mod­ulated." 
According to Ward, the Task Force has sent out ques­tionaires this week to help ascertain students' attitudes on drinking, SYRs, drunkeness, and abuse. "I really hope nuring the fo~rth quarter of ~he Penn State game in 

1986, Patrick left to get some­thing to eat. On Edison Road, he hit and killed a South Bend man. 
doubt, hopefully you won't drive. It makes you look at what you're doing. All the partying that goes on. Is it really worth it?" 
Patrick's story is indeed a people take it seriously and are honest," he said, stressing that the questionaires could affect the comments made by the Task Force to the administra­tion. 

Another part of alcohol edu­cation that the University sup­ports is BACCHUS, a student organization started at Notre Dame in 1986 for the purpose 
of promoting responsible as well as alcohol-free activities on campus. 
"Alcohol seems to be the most encouraged form of release on campus...students 

"I never saw him," said Patrick (not his real name), a senior at Notre Dame. "(I) stopped...people ran back to the body... " Patrick had only started drinking that afternoon and never thought he could be drunk. He was. 
Patrick didn't find out until 
the next morning that the man 
he had hit had died. Patrick 
was now facing manslaughter 
charges and the possibility of 
serving time in prison. 
Patrick feels that if he had 
been more educated about al­
cohol he probably would have tragic one. "Not a day goes by that I still don't think about it" he said. Notre Dame wants to minimize the tragic stories of its students through education. The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, which is having its dedication ceremony tomorrow, will provide this source of edu­cation. 
Sarin Hall rector Joe McKenna doesn't see alcohol as any more of a problem here than anywhere else, but he favors alcohol education be­coming a part of Notre Dame. "I see the University not only the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, and Binder is a member of the Alcohol Task Force. The Advisory Committee acts to oversee the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education while also offering support for the staff. 
The Alcohol Task Force is a committee appointed by the University President to com­plete several tasks relevant to the alcohol issue, including the alcohol policy and alcohol use and abuse. In March, it will give a report to the administra­tion which will include any voice, real songs, and a mus­cular but understated backup band. Although he may not match his English success in America, D'Arby is certainly a 

talented individual. Now if he would only shut up and sing. 
KRIS MURPHY accent writer 
T
erence Trent D'Arby has a big name. He also has a big ego. A very big ego. By his own account his debut album Introducing the Hardline Accor-

Records 
Kris Murphy 
ding To Terence Trent D'Arby is "the best debut album in his­tory" and "better than Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Heart's Club Band." The fact that the very same debut album sold a mil­lion and a half copies in En­gland in one week surely didn't do much to tame that ego. D'Arby's comments are unfor­tunate because he didn't need to hype his own album. It's an excellent record, but D'Arby should have kept his mouth 
D'Arby's talent blemished by ego 
husky growl to a smooth croon to a falsetto that sends shivers to more than just your spine. 
The third single, "If You Let Me Stay," should come with a warning; "Caution: This is not a Motown standard but an in­credible simulation. Do not attempt this at home." A plead­ing, spoken introduction, do­wop-wop backup vocals, a killer hook, and more great falsetto show that D'Arby has his heart in the right place with regard to influences and that he can pay tribute to his elders with a fresh sound. 
Other highlights include "Who's Lovin' You," a Smokey Robinson cover sung with pas­sion and reverence, and 'Til Never Turn My Back On You," a touching message to the singer's father. Less popular songs include the pretentiously titled and boring "As Yet Un­titled," the embarrasingly over­written and trite prison lament 
shut and let his singing speak for itself. 
The best songs are the three singles that established D'Arby's success in England. "Dance Little Sister" is the best of these. It's a relentless, hard funk tune with scratch guitar, horn section and D'Arby's unique vocals which comprise a combination of James Brown, Smokey Robinson, and himself. This is the kind of song that the Rolling Stones would be writing if they weren't a bunch of tired, drug addled 45-year­olds. The title is actually the title of an old Stones' song, one of several references D'Arby makes to late 60s/early 70s Stones' music. 
Another big British single is "Wishing Well." D'Arby bills it as a "tone poem" but it's really more of a slow bump and grind seduction story. This is also the song where D'Arby's vocal talents are most evident. He moves effortlessly from a "Seven More Days," and "If You All Get To Heaven," the laborious chant that opens the album. 
Despite these flaws Introduc­ing the Hardline is a great first effort. D'Arby has a first rate 

nt page 8 9 
Ritter guides 


'Hooperman' to network 
success 
H
JOE BUCOLO (one time the water turns off accent writer while Hooperman is in the shower, and he is forced to e's faster than molasses in rinse his shampoo-covered springtime, more powerf!..ll head in the toilet) is full of in­than a dose of Tylenol. and teresting characters: a sexy able to leap an antfarm In a superintendent named Susan single bound. He's Hooperman. (Debrah Farentino) who is an John Ritter stars as Harry aspiring writer and a love inter­Hooperman in ABC's new hit est for Hooperman; a flam­dramedy, "Hooperman." The boyant homosexual who com­show's title seems to indicate plains that there are no that the series is about a su­makeup lights in the powder perhero. It isn't. .. or is it? room; and an old psychic who 
Created by Steven Bochco claims she's losing her powers. when he says he longs for the on the pavement far below, behind the show. Gone are the (creator of "Hill Street Blues") Then there's BUoux. who gets days "when cops used to be explains to the boy, "That's days of Ritter playing a zany, and Terry Fisher (creator of along with Hooperman about cops--no dogs, no wimps, no you." Other episodes deal with girl-hungry misfit. His perfor­"L.A. Law"), "Hooperman," as well as Superman and kryp­women." drugs, rapists, and even AIDS. mance In "Hooperman" Is a which airs Wednesdays at 9 tonite. The plots of the shows are The comedy element in the gem. He's serious, funny, emo­
p.m. on ABC. is a crime story Hooperman's co-workers are sensational. The writers have to show separates it from all the tional, and convincing. It's his about Harry Hooperman, a San just as unusual. C.Z. Stern (her be superheroes to pack all they rest. Without committing the excellence combined with that Francisco detective. name says it all) is Hooper­do into one half-hour crime of using laugh tracks, of the other actors that makes 
Hooperman's life becomes man's captain and is portrayed episode...and they do it bril­"Hooperman" is full of witty "Hooperman" the success It Is. hectic when his landlady--and by Barbara Bosson who starred liantly. In one episode, Hooper­one-liners that truly enhance "Hooperman" is the hit of the good friend--is murdered. (Holy in "Hill Street" and is Bochco's man must rescue a boy who the show. When trapping a season. With a sensational horror, Batman, that's terrible!) real-life wife. Sydney Walsh intends to kill himself by jump­drug dealer Hooperrnan asks, cast superb plotlines, and a Showing just how much she stars as Maureen DeMott, a ing off a building. For a lack of "Do you take plastic?" At the fresh seasoning of humor, this loves Hooperman (and that she female officer who is constantly anything better to do or say, office, Hooperman must deal new dramedy Is some of Prime has a sense of humor), the trying to seduce Rick Silardi Hooperman, carrying a water­with Stern's love problems (not Time's best viewing. If landlady leaves her apartment (Joe Gian), a gay cop. It takes melon, joins the boy out on to mention Rick's), but always "Hooperman" continues to beat building and beastly little dog. more than a well-equiped the building's ledge. In the handles them with an element the bad-guys and the other BUoux. to him. The trouble utility belt to deal patiently with tradition of comedian Gallag­of comedy. networks' competition, he truly doesn't stop there. these guys. Hooperman puts her, Hooperman drops the A word must be said about deserves a seat In the Super­
The run-down apartment everything into perspective watermelon and, as it smashes John Ritter, the "man of steel" friends' Hall of Justice. 

Graduates gain new perspective in Chile 
the northern city of El Transito years In Chile as a teacher, where he started the "family most often in poor urban garden", an agricultural project schools. By working in the 
which attempted to alleviate schools, he developed two very some of the malnutrition and special relationships with two starvation in various parts of of his students, Cecilia and the country. When a Chilean Fernando. Although Cecilia, a woman was asked what she bright fifteen-year-old atheist harvested most from her gar­was strongly anti-Ameican, den, she responded, Gallus managed to win her "Friendship." Vegetables were trust, and she eventually be­secondary to some who found came one of his best friends. that relationships within the family as well as new relation­ships with other project mem­bers were of a deeper and We all had different more lasting value. 
experiences yet felt 
Brennan placed the most 

united.
stress on the spirituality of the group. She enjoyed reading the gospels with the poor at liturgies and listening to their The three associates undoub­views about the message of the tably had different and each gospel. Along with memorable experiences. celebrating the liturgy, Brennan However, they all agreed that got up early each morning to their stay in Chile was a huni• go into town to buy bread with bling experience. At times they 
F 
RUTH ANN KEYSO their flrst year in Chile. In time Moreau Seminary. Having just t> r neighbors. She learned to felt like loners in a strange accent writer the associates came to realize returned one month ago from ~re like her neighbors, and land, speaking an unfamiliar the true meaning of these a two-year stay in Chile, these tated that she felt a closeness language and wondering if they or ~y one Spirit we were all words. three associates incorporated with them like one never felt were really doing the right baptized into one body-­songs, stories, and slide pre­before. Whereas in the United thing. Yet they chose to give Jews or Greeks, slaves or free-­Bill Jordan, Nancy Brennan, sentations into their speeches States fences Inhibit people up law school and the profits and all were made to drink of and Gib Gallus, all 1985 about life in Latin America. from getting to know one an­of the business world to live In one Spirit. For the body does graduates of Notre Dame, gave other, neighbors in Chile share a country run by a military not consist of one member but a beautiful and dramatic Jordan summed up the three their thoughts and feelings with junta. It was In this land that of many." (I Corinthians 12: presentation of their experi­graduates' feelings when he one another over a cup of tea they realized that they are all 12·14) This was the prayer ences as associates through stated, "We all had different or even while making their brothers and sisters In the one recited by three Notre Dame the Holy Cross Associates pro­experiences yet felt united." beds. Body, made to drink of the one associates on the last night of gram on Jan. 31, 1988, at Jordan's experience occurred in Finally, Gallus spent his two Spirit. 


page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs Pack, U of I name new coaches 
SMC track and field will have a very important meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in the lounge of Angela Ath­letic Facility. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in becoming a student athletic trainer should contact Jim Russ at the JACC training room as soon as possible for information and application. Travel and benefits are available. Students must have discipline and be hard working in nature. -The Observer 
The Racquetball Club will mail league schedules next week. League play starts the week of Feb. 15. Any questions, call Dave (1425) or Mark (1422). -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP)­Lindy Infante, the offensive co­ordinator who helped the Cleveland Browns to consecu­tive appearances in the AFC championship game, took over Wednesday as head coach of the Green Bay Packers. 
"I didn't take this job to be here two or three years and be a loser," Infante told a news conference. 
"We'll work our tails off. We'll be a winner." 
Infante, 47, signed a five­year contract, the details of which were not released. 
Infante was the Packers' second choice to replace For­rest Gregg, who resigned last month after four years to be­come head coach at Southern Methodist University. 
Michigan State Coach George Perles last week turned down a reported five-year con­tract worth $2.25 million. 
lllini hire Mackovic 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill.-John Mackovic, who previously coached Wake Forest and the Kansas City Chiefs, was named head football coach at the Uni­versity of Illinois on Wednes­day. 
He said the Illini offense will be patterned on the pro-style drop back passing attack. be patterned on the pro-style drop back passing attack. 
His goal, he said, was even­tually to make Illinois the na­tional champion. 
Mackovic was described as man of exceptionally high in­tegrity and honesty by Chan­cellor Morton Weir, as he intro­duced the new coach at a news conference. 
"Try as we did, we could not find a single person who would question his record in that regard," said Weir. 
Tile a.---Notnt Dame office, located on the third fioof of LaFortune Stu­IMnt eem., ecc;epta classified actv.liaing from 10 Lm until 4 p.m, Monday through Friday. The a.---Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts cluaifleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. DMdllne for next-classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must 
Classifieds be pntpald, either In per.son or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live a-.cters per day. 
NOTICES 
Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs for the best price on Sony D&OD 3.5" diskettes for your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283-2101 and help support the Macin­tosh Users Group! Guaranteed lor llle 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
LOST/FOUND 
MISSING: leather bomber jacket from BEEF'S house Fri. Jan.22. Important that ~ is returned. Call Allison al 1340. 
LOST: GOLD-RIMMED GLASSES IN A BROWN CASE ON TUES JAN. 26. THE CASE SAID SEBASTIAN ON IT. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X2039 OR X2040. 
FOUND IN ACC -GOLD NECKLACE WITH PEARL CHARM CALL 1743 TO IDENTIFY 
FOUND: One white silk woman's scart with a paisley prinl on ~-It was in the Keenan Lobby after the world famous Keenan Revue Party. If it is yours, please call Dan lzzo at 3319 as it doesn't go with anything I own. 
MISPLACED SWEATSHIATI!III IN THE ACC FIELD HOUSE FRIDAY NIGHT (LNO)--GRAY N.D. SWEATSHIRT, SIZE LARGE. IF YOU HAVE MINE--I HAVE YOURSII CALL TANJA X2843 
Lost: BLUE WINTER JACKET contain­ing a wallet and sat of keys. Lost Thurs. at JACC racquetball Courts. Reward 4330 
Lost: Detex, keys, and 10 between Badin and South Dining Hall. lflound, cell3720. 
lost: TRIANGLE-SHAPED BLACK LACE HEAD SCARF. CALL DAY 239-5654 GENEROUS REWAAD!II 
LOST: Sapphire And Diamond Pinky Ring Lost Friday Night. Has Very Sen­timental Value. If Found, Please Call Jeanne At 283-3887. 
LOST Black sony walkman between the Law School and Alumni last Friday Janurary 29th. II found please cell 271­0865. 
................................................................ 
FOUND: A retainer In South Dining Hall. Come by the dining hall to claim. 
LOST: VARSITY LETTER JACKET TAKEN FROM THE LOFTUS WEIGHTROOM ON FEB. 1 BETWEEN 5-6 PM. I WORKED 4 YEARS TO GET THIS AND WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF YOU COULD RETURN IT. CALL JOHN 1075. 
I LOST A PAIR OF HUGE, WOOL, OR­ANGE, LIGHT BLUE,AND GREEN MIT­TENS IN O"SHAG. PLEASE RETURN TO TIFFANY 3390 IF FOUND -THEY ARE THE ONLY THINGS THAT WILL EVER MATCH AN ORANGE COAT. THANK YOUI 
FOR RENT 
LARGE DUPLEX FOR RENT. WILL AC­COMMODATE 8-9 STUDENTS. THREE COMPLETE BATHS, COMPLETELY FURNISHED INCLUDING WASHER & DRYER. NEW SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234-9364 AFTER 5, NANCY HUMBARGER. 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 2n­3097, 683-8889. 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED RANCH 3 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS WASHER, DRYER, OVEN, STOVE, REFRIGERATOR, SOFTNER. GREAT NEIGHBORHOOD, OFF AN­GELA BLVD. IDEAL FOR 3 STUDENTS CALL 232-3616 
6 BDAM, 2 BATH W>SHOWEAS. ON BUS LINE TO NO. FURNISHED, GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD, $1300TUDENT & UTILITIES. 233-9947 OR 287-3530. 
WANTED 
WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE for Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239-5772 and leave a message lor Matt. 
Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. 
Earn $&tlrl MATEO'S SUBS needs drivers! II interested in big $$$, cell 271-0SUB 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND I NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH PADRE FOR SPRING BREAK. IF SOMEONE ON THE SUB TRIP WANTS TO SELL THEIR BUS SPOT PLEASE CALL ALSO. KEVIN 2335 ASAP 
MANAGER WANTED FOR TEENAGE DISCO IN NILES. IF INTERESTED CALL COLLEEN, 800-643-3648. 
MALE TRANSFER STUDENT LOOKING FOR CHEAP SUB-LET FOR SUMMER MONTHS CALL X3484. 
HELPI I NEED A AIDE TO MIAMI U. THIS WEEKEND. PLEASE CALL KAREN N0.1312 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE MCAT Prep Books And Materials. All Like New. 
BE PREPARED! 
Call Ted At 2387. 
FOR SALE: AL 300 Slats Books. Com­plete Set--Buy All Or None ... PLEASEIIII Call N0.1185. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: TWO G.A.a FOR UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL AMY N0.2645 
NEEDED: up to 5 UCLA B-ball GA's lor familyll cail Kris-3099 PLEASEI 
UCLA I need two UCLA GAs. Please cail JA at 283-1538. Thanks. 
MY FATHER IS DYING ..II to sae NO play DAYTON, Feb. 18. Call X1120 if you have two GA's so he and his sweetheart can see the game. 
NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR UCLA-CALL TOM X1609 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE MOM IS COMING FOR JPW NEED 2 DAYTON TIX SO SHE CAN SEE ND BASKET­BALL GAME CALL 283-3484 ASAP THAN X 
NEED TWO UCLA GA TIX DESPERATELY. CALL DAN X3261. 
UCLA TICKETS WANTED: 2 lower arena student or GA tickets. We can negotiate for large sums of CASH. Call Mike at x3698 
PERSONALS 
They will be coming on a bookstore court near you I 
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 
BEWARE The Labian Minors are coming! 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Sell old texts lor $$$. Pandoras -808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30. Also save $ on used books. 
Give Up Diet Coke? I'd rather give up my VCR first 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that spe­cial guy the best gilt of all -lyouraell -In a Glamour Portrait by Joe Ringer. Call lor details and free brochure. 287­0613. 
A SUMMER IN EUROPE? INTER­ESTED IN TRAVEL TO FRANCE,GER,SWITZ,ITALY? SIGN UP FOR THE ND-SMC SUMMER ROME PROGRAM FROM JUNE 12-JULY 11. COURSE CREDIT AVAILABLE IN ITALIAN,SOC,HIST. FOR MORE INFO CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR. BLACK AT 
284-4460. 
Let the Party Doctors pertorm their sur­gery of sound at your next event.... Call Dan at 3626 
NEED RIDE to Exit 12 on the Ohio Turnpike for weekend of Feb. 5. Call Dan x1155 -will share $ and driving. 
Anyone interested In a one month sum­mer study program in Scandinavia and the Soviet Union? The program will run from June 17 to July 15, 1988. For more information, call David or Pat at x1155. Hurry, space is limited. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­
PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE, TONIGHT, 6:30p.m., ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. . STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS AND DEGREES ARE IN­VITED TO ATTEND. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­
PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE, TONIGHT, 8:30p.m., ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS AND DEGREES ARE IN­VITED TO ATTEND. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­
PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES OFFICE, TONIGHT, 6:30p.m., ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. STUDENTS OF ALL MAJORS AND DEGREES ARE IN­VITED TO ATTEND. 
RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH call Mike or Kevin at 3382 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM· 
PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS. 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­
MENT SERVICES OFFICE, TONIGHT, 
6:30p.m., ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY 
CENTER. STUDENTS OF ALL 
MAJORS AND DEGREES ARE IN­
VITED TO ATTEND. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAN[}WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, 
MORNINGS 914-3814224 
IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANY DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY, FEB. 11. 
man a tee (man e tee) n.• An aquatic mammal characterized by its rotund physique and shear lazyness. It is found in the southern basement region of Sarin Hall. See also Sean Cullinan. 
LOST: A tiger, "Hobbes". On the Quiet side. Somewhat Peculiar. A good com· panion, in a wierd sort of way. Calvin. 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE FOR WKEND 2/12-14 GREG N0.1562 
DO YOU REALLY WANT TO GO HOME FOR SPRING BREAK? GO TO DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA ROUND TRIP, 7 DAYS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS KILEY 3382 NOW! 
••• 264-5222 ••• LeMans Inmate -Senior Topologist ••• LI.S.T ••• Turn off your car lights and watch out for Eddie --he growls. NO.NO.Daryll DickieNO.NO. 
LOVEFEST IS COMING !IIIII LOVEFEST IS COMING !IIIII LOVE FEST IS COMING I IIIII 
Hi Vivian, So When Are We Going Out? I'Ve Asked You Twice And You Were Busy Both Times So Now It'S Your Turn. Your "Secret" Admirer 
Saint Mary'S Junior Class Pizza Party Thursday, February 4, 7-9pm Chameleon Room, Haggar College Cen­ter 
GUYS HELP! IF YOU WERE AT THE LEMANS FORMAL, CHECK YOUR BLUE SUITCOATS. YOU MIGHT HAVE MY ID & KEYS. PLEASE CALL PATTY 284-5092. 
I NEED 1 T-SHIAT THAT READS "SEE TIM RUN, SEE TIM CATCH THE BALL!" PLEASE CONTACT LISA N0.284-5078 
ANYONE GOING TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND? I NEED A .~IDEI VALERIE 284-5250 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY 
MARK PROKOPIUS 
No Longer A Teenagerlll LOVE, MOM, DAD, DONN & RYAN 
HERE ME NOW AND LISTEN TO ME LATER, BUT BELIEVE ME SOONER OR YESTERDAY. GLENN HEGEWALD TURNS 22 TONIGHT, SO FIND HIM AND HELP HIM CELEBRATE, OR FACE THE WRATH AND FURY OF THE MAGNIFICENT NATURAL FISTS! 
Blrtday Quiz: Guess who'a 20 today? 
a. Kathy Habiger answer: a Happy Birthday to my favorite C.Kitten, the beat lrland I've ever had I Love Tim! 
WAIT A MINUTE HONEY! THERE'S BEEN A MISTAKE. URANUS WAS OUT OF PLACE AND THE MIDGETS MISSED THEIR PLANE! BEAUTIFUL CHINESE LOVE WEEKEND II IS YET TO COME. T 
To the littlest who, aka Michelle Berninger! Have a happy 19thlluv, Kare, Trace, Laur, & Jules. 

CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII I never thought it would happen lo me. 
There once was a man called Drumm who stood no taller than your thumb Last year he got plowed and slept in his chow. Let's try it again Friday you bum. 2nd Annual Fisher Fun Run! 
SUSIE, HOW ABOUT A B-DAY DATE WITH THE ROMANTICS? 
HEY SHADOW BUDDY WHERE WERE YOU GROUNDHOG DAY? DOES THIS MEAN A WARM STREAK IS AHEAD (LIKE THIS WEEK-END)? AN OLD FRIEND 
TOM FALVEY: Go to the Commons! 
Shot party quote N0.1 :"I'm not coming back. Someone's gonna die." ·Sara Harty 
Shot party quote N0.2:'Why are you scooping that up? Because it's alcohol." 
•...... "Your table doesn't taste so hot.' -Bob Kelly 
Shot party quote N0.3: "And the next thing I knew, I had no clothes on and it was Tuesday."-Mike Naughton 
Shot party quote N0.4: "It's 3am. We should have passed out by now. SHOT BREAK!"-Michele Spring 
············································ 
Shot party quote N0.5: "Don't you hate it when you miss your mouth? That's the worst."-Mike Kurowski 
Shot party quote N0.6: ''The goal of this party is to make Molly puke by 2:20."­Chip 
Shot party quote N0.7: "You guys, why do I have these red lines on my face?"­Molly Rauscher 
shot party quote N0.8: "ANN IS A MU­SICAL TARTISH NIGHTMAAE"-Chip 
Shot party quote N0.9: "We might be d'"heads, but we have honor."-Mike Naughton 
And last but not least...Shot party quote N0.1 0: "You guys, what happened?"-Ann Seifert 
A FEW QUOTES THAT YOU F15­HEADS FORGOT ... No. 11 "Men, men, men, men, men, men, men ... " No. 12 "Molly, how do you like fresh­men?" No. 13 "Spring, You're a d.b. from hell." No. 14 "RAAAAAALPH" Any fishhead on a given night. 
SUNDAY NIGHTS AT MIDNIGHT­SCARY 
LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS LSS 
DID YOU EVER WONDER IF THERE WAS ANY OTHER REASON TO GO TO MASS BESIDES TO SCOPE? ARE YOU BORED WITH YOUR FAITH? COME TO A LIFE IN THE SPIRIT SEM­INAR TONIGHT AT 7:30 IN THE KEENAMSTANFORD CHAPEL AND FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN LIVE A SAT­ISFYING CHRISTIAN LIFE IN TODAY'S WORLD. 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY MARK PROKOPIUS No Longer A Teenagerlll 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, DONN & RYAN 
VALENTINE'S DAY BOXER-GRAMS 111111 Have Valentine Boxer-Grams delivered to your friends, roommates or sweethearts. Buy in SOH 2-9 & 2/t 0 or call Chris X2521 
Yes, Ed Trifone is awake. But he'd rather be zzzleeping... 
Sean Reilly: I'll wager a six-pack if you can stay awake in RADZICKI'S class today! And that means no Observer reading either -FULL ATTENTION IS RE· QUIREDI your attentive Slats neighbor (HA!) 
PASSION FLOWERS ARE ONLY FOR 
PASSIONATE WOMEN, I'M SORRY A 
VARSITY LOSER LIKE YOU GOT ONE 
(AT LEAST YOUR ROOMMATE GOES 
OUT ON TUESDAYS) THIS IS YOUR 
FIRST PERSONAL SO BE HAPPY A 
REAL MAN . 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUSIE!!!!!LOVE, Ml· CHAELJACKSON 
SUSIE! OUR BIRTHDAY GIFT TO YOU IS A DELTA AIRLINE TICKET--BE CAREFUL! LOVE,KKKEALMBLC. 
MODELS NEEDED FOR HAIR SHOW. WEEKEND IN N.Y., ALL EXPENSES PAID. CALL COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGN FOR DETAILS. 277-1875. 
TO ALL THE NO STUDS:I feel I must apologize to Christy A. and her roomates for writing that cruel personal which satd she wanted some hairy studs. You see, I was merely surpressing my own feelings...l'm the one who wants a HAIRY STUD. I've finally come out of the closet guys,so don't let me down. Call me, ABE 
J. the hottest Indian on campus! x3310 KEENAN. 
CHESHIRE THURS. 1 0 PM CLUB 23. $ 1 COVER $.75 all Beer cans 
CHESHIRE THURS. 1 0 PM CLUB 23. $ 1 COVER $.75 all Beer cans 
CHESHIRE THURS. 10 PM CLUB 23. $ 1 COVER $.75 all Beer cans 
To my sensible Marcy. So you're no longer a teenager, eh? Well, Happy Birthday. How about dinner and drinks on Friday? Love, Linus 
SOPHOMORES TUBING SAT. 6TH 7­
10:00 P.M. BENDIX $2.00 TRANSPO PROVIDED SIGN-UP SOPH OFFICE 1­
3:00 P.M. FRIDAY, 5TH 
Calvin and Hobbes say: Irish Hockey mertilize the Air Forcelll 
Forget the SYR! Don't go Off-Campus! Irish Hockey meets the Air Force Friday and Saturday North Dome, JACC, 7:30 
p.m. Be There! 

"Irish Hockey, it's a Festival!" -David Let­terman 
Be a Ric's Ranger and catch the action as Irish Hokcey meets the Air Force this weekend We want EVERYBODY to be there 
FLYING IRISH BASKETBALL TOURN­AMENT -featuring 13 teams! Come sup­port your ROTC teams -Air Force, Army and Navy Sat. 8am-9pm and Sun. 8am­1pm at the Stepan Center BE THERE!II 
Everybody be sure to wish 
Kathy Habiger 
a happy 20th birthday today! 
Only 8 Days! 
BILL WEBB DAY 
Look around campus, you can see the excitement growing. Its the way people talk, Its the things they say, Its the way they smlla lor no apparent reason. You can feel the electricity In the air. But there are atlll some peopla who are too lost and confused to par­take In thla celebration that cornea but once a year. Are you ready lor the event of the semester? Are you going to forget your troubles and get heppy? Are you preparing yourself lor Bill Webb Day? 
February 12, 1988 

Thursday, February 4, 1988 The Observer page 11 
T s · k b t t f J Manor beats Dillon 
A..~~~.~-pI~oxin~' ~w~~~ "Th~e$40 mill~.~son c~~? 0 n d i sq u a lifi cati 0 n 
is the one everyone wanted $20 million," said Shelly By TIM SULLIVAN lead before changing goalies 
NEW YORK-Mike Tyson to see." Finkel, who has the closed-Sports Writer and lines. The final score will defend his undisputed Lewis said the fight was circuit and pay-per-view before the disqualification was heavyweight title against expected to gross between television rights for the bout. "We did it as a matter of in-5-3 with Dillon's Jim Kilway Michael Spinks in June, $60 million and $70 million tegrity." scoring twice. Spinks' adviser said Wed­and make a net profit of Negotiations with Lewis Morrissey lnterhall hockey "Dillon was by far the better nesday. nearly $40 million. were conducted by Finkel, coach Tim O'Brien had that to team," said O'Brien. 
"We've agreed verbally," Spinks will fight for a flat who was serving as a go-say about his team's decision The Morrissey team played Butch Lewis said after sum plus incentives. His between for Tyson's co-to protest its game against Dil-Flanner as well in the past months of often-bitter guarantee reportedly is in managers Jimmy Jacobs Ion -a protest that Morrissey week, taking a 2-1 decision over negotiations. "We're now the neighborhood of $12.5 to and Bill Cayton. Milt wori and which had serious ef-the winless Flannerites. Pete having the contract reduced 13.5 million. Trotsky handled negotia-fects on the IH standings. Nulty and Roland Bluemle to writing," and a signing is Everything else will go to tions for Spinks' camp. The Big Red and the scored the goals for Morrissey. expected early next week. Tyson, with promoter Don Cayton said he and Jacobs Manorites squared off Monday In other Gold Division action, 
No site or date has been King being paid out of the would not deal with Lewis night in a game for sole posses-Off-Campus remained in the picked, Lewis said. The bout champion's revenues. Tyson personally after Lewis sion of second place in the Gold playoff hunt with a 5-0 shutout between the unbeaten is expected to earn at least walked out of a negotiating Large Dorm Division. of the combined St. Ed's -Holy fighters will be shown on $17 million. session Jan. 23, the day after Dillon, however, decided to Cross team. closed-circuit television. "If the thing hits a home Tyson knocked out Larry stack the deck in its favor and OC, now 2-1-1, appears to 
"This is the only fight in run and the net is close to Holmes in Atlantic City, N.J. utilize a former Dillonite (Dan have the inside track on the 'The Rat' Mason), who now second playoff berth behind 
It's a lot easier making wide­kept the Irish close·in the first resides off-campus -a move Grace, as it will be favored to 
open shots than it is with some­half, trailing 39-37 with under strictly prohibited in the NVA defeat Morrissey in two weeks body guarding you. a minute to play before rules. to finalize the spot. 
Shots 
continued frofn page 16 
"They were also real tough halftime. But the Lady Vols' The Big Red were caught. Keenan and Flanner, the and was backed up by the per­in the paint," continued shooting changed a slim lead "We received the protest on only two winless teams in the fect 5-of-5 performance of McGraw. "so we tried to pack into a comfortable eight-point Tuesday," said NVA hockey Division, skated to a 2-2 tie in guard Melissa McCray. it in a little in the second half, margin at the half with a short commisioner Tom McGee. a heart-stopping Tuesday night 
"I thought that they were a then we gave up the jumper. jumper and foul shot by Lisa "We investigated and dis-game.
much better team than we They had the inside and outside Webb and a three-point bomb qualified Dillon." Alumni remained atop the were," said Irish head coach games going real well." from Tonya Edwards. Dillon captain Tom Tracy Blue Division with a perfect 4-0
Muffet McGraw, "but I felt like The blue-collar work of Junior forward Lisa Kuhns was frustrated with NVA's record. Freshman Steve 

we gave them wide-open shots. Bunek and Botham underneath kept the Irish hopes alive with 
decision. 'Quickness' Kaltenmark
4-of-6 shooting from three-point 
"We knew there was a rule scored two of the Dogs' three
land, hitting two early in the 
against it, but we didn't think goals in a 3-2 victory over Stan­
first half to tie the score at 14 
it would be a problem. He ford.
and two in the closigg minutes 
(Mason) talked to the OC team, Fisher and Zahm deadlocked 
as Notre Dame made a last ef­
and they didn't mind. The most 3-3 in a match-up of the two win­
fort to rally. Despite the solid 
frustrating part of it is that it less Blue Division teams.
Irish shooting, the Lady Vols 
was no secret. Morrissey could In the final game of the week, ....
continued to fill up the hoop 
have talked to us before the the Cavemen of Cavanaughwith pinpoint accuracy. 
game." The game actually remained tied with Pangborn
"We've got one of the better 
was dominated by Dillon. The for second place in the Division 
When? shooting teams that we've Big Red at one point had a 5-l with a 5-2 decision over Zahm.
had," said Tennesssee head co­Wed., Feb. 3 & Thurs., Feb. 4 ach Pat Head Summit. "But 
secret his reputation was in 
our defense is not as strong as
7:30pm Pack question with the behavior of
it was a year ago. I think our 
his team on the field and on the
continued from page 16

Where? team is concentrating a little loose. 
more offensively than defen­
a part of the reputable SMU George Perles turned down a
Room 118 O'Shaughnessy sively, and that concerns me a athletic department. Gregg is lucrative Green Bay offer, one
little as we get closer to the 
a Texan, which did weigh heav­that would have made anyonepostseason." 
ily in the decision, but it's no swoon 20 years ago, and Joe
*We need singers & musicians Gibbs thought he'd just keep 
to perform in the first N.D. collecting Super Bowl trophies in Washington. 
Broadway Revue. 
So now the team fighting to get back to levels of success it
*Singers should bring one 
once enjoyed in more enjoyable prepared piece (preferably days is no longer using players that helped them get there.
a Broadway number) to tryouts. 
Lindy Infante took the chance and now inherits a team that*Singers should try to provide again appears to be on the rise, their own accompaniment. with young talent dotting the roster. And Infante was Cleveland's offensive coordin­ator, which may improve
For more information, 
Green Bay's offense, which was pitiful at times.
call Tom Howley 283-1368 But he's not a legend, he's not a hero. He's not one of the Sponsored by SUB guys that made Green Bay 'Tit­
letown, U.S.A.' Maybe it's better that way. 
BEER 
CITY-WIDE LIQUORS WINE
Meister Brau 24 cans $4.99 Lite 24 cans $7.99 Old Style 24 cans $7.99 
3825 N. Grape Rd.
Busch '24 r.ans $6.99 
Carlo Rossi 4 liter $4.99 Budweiser 2~ cans $8.57 
Tosti Raspberry 750 ml $2.59 Budweiser light 24 cans $8.57 
Tosti Peach 750ml $2.59 Miller's 24 bottles $7.99 
Mish, Ind. 
Matilda Bay 4·pack $2.99 
Little Kln!J! (7oz.) 24 cans $5.39 Hours: 
Miller's Dreft 24 cans $7.99 
Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 
TRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE OFF EDISON RD.
272-2274
QUARTS 
Bud LIQUOR
12 quarts $10.99 Bud Light 12 quarts $10.99 Busch 12 quarts $ 8.99 Old Style 12 quarts $ 9.99 1.75 liters $7.99 
1.75 liters $7.99 1.75 liters $9.99 1.75 liters $9.99
LONGNECKS 
1.75 liters $10.99 Rr:TURNABLr:s 
750ml $8.99 
Budweiser Light 24 bottles $7.99 
-----------------CALLfOR SYR PARTieS 


The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1988 
page 12 

BOARD MANAGER: Be !!head-honcho." Organize. and oversee the activities of all commissions. 

~}~~ :~:;:;:~~=~:;::::::::::-:.· . ­
..,,,,.,,.,.:{}\}'::'·:·?r·h·;·;;····,..,,."",i··;,,,,,..,.....,,,,.;,., .. ,i''S''U'''B;·ti't'~''ti~~"''''i"''i~,,;·'"" 
11: 
' 
boredom on this campus.
;! ~ STUDENT UNION BOARD ··· 
... 

If commissioner positions for the 1988-89 school year. ••• 
·=_._:=·=:.• _:=·=·:. 
oft~~4~ud~~,JeEf~~~~~~E~~dn~~~~18E8~~~hil~~~ ir{f~e :~~ ~~~~~~v~~J:F~~~~~ •:•:•• 
were sponsored b~ the Campus Entertainment Commission which also sponsors "We Can Make ::) )) You Laugh," Nightclub Nights at Theodore's, trips to Chicago, and various social events. ·:J:::J 
:::: SPECI~ EVENIS ~QMMISSION· What about An Tostal? Who are the people in charge ,,,, (: of that? =he Special Events C<;>.mmission, sponsors this alow.with other week-long events ··· t• such as Welcome Week, Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, and interfest. !!i 
l Ml!SICAL ENIEBll.INMENI CQMMISSIOI:::I: What did you like about THE ROMANTICS?. :::::: "' 
t Th1s concert was brought to you by the Musical Entertainment Commission as were concerts /? ::::: by IPSO FACTO, PIECES OF A DREAM, TRIP SHAKESPEARE, and PAR 3. This commission :[( 1/!:i is also responsible for the NAZZ competition, campus band jams, and lip sync contests. f 
i[i[i; IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSION: This commission sponsors lectures on campus by national :::::: 
• f~;~5:~si~u~~n~~n~o~~:a~~~~~dG~!~~it~i's~~~;i~~-Piimpton, and Shirley Chisholm. They are also 
' ' . ~~~~~l~~~:~!!~~~:~~~:~o~~~~~~~~~t r~~p~~i~igl:b~~r tfh; 0p~p~f:r an~~v~n~t ••,••, 
.•••• ~~YM~A~Ip~~J~m~g~M~~~~~N~e~~~~~~:ro/7fA~~~~ ~~r~~~c~A~~~c~h~~~ft~~~ 
'=_··=.···=.····:··:::'.·:· 
::> Arts Commission is responsible for these performances as well as the SOPHOMORE LITERARY :): FESTIVAL, THE COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL, A STUDENT PLAYERS' PRODUCTION,f~l: and trips to Chicago and the Morris Civic Auditorium to see. theatrical productions. 
i!!•!! SERVICES CQMMISSIOI:::I: Are you headed to South Padre or Vail for Spring Break? 
••••••• valuable ••••••
:~~~:~i~i~:~T~~~t~~u:.ot~eb(;~~~ ~~~~e~A~~~:,:~s:~~ig!~~~ra;:~t~~~vide 
~~~? 
l~i~il PUBLICITY COMMISSION: Somebody has to make sure everyone knows about all 
?? these great events. This commission coordinates all the advertising such as Observer and 
t:i: Scholastic ads, posters, table tents, and other methods to "get the word out"' about S.U.B. activities. 
:-:-:·: 
:· ~~S~E~S AUPIIQB: If you're a business major, this may be the position for you. •·•·•• mr ed Udltor maintains the books and keeps the financial statements for the S.U.B. 
·=_=.:_\:_::·_:;:_:=:::. 
:~f) stu ent-run businesses such as ADWORKS, IRISH GARDENS, and THE CELLAR. ~~~~~~ 
i!i!i! CONTROLLER: You also need to be a business major for this position. The Controller 


,. ••••••
Applications fo~!~~p~!~o~s ~~:=~~~~before 5:00pm 
:::=:=: 
at the secretary's desk on the 2nd· floor of LaFortune. ::!iii 
~fl::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::t:~:rr~:~r:::r:r:r::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

------------~----------------------~------------­
The Observer page 13 
College basketball roundup 
No. 4 Duke wrecks Ga. Tech 


Associated Press 
• 

DURHAM, N.C.-Danny Ferry scored 22 points and fourth-ranked Duke overcame a first-half offensive lapse to beat Georgia Tech 78-65 Wed­nesday night. 
Kevin Strickland scored 16 points as the Blue Devils im­proved to 15-2 overall and 5-1 in the Atlantic Coast Confer­ence. 
Duane Ferrell had 18 points and Tom Hammonds 15 for Georgia Tech, 14-6 and 2-4. Craig Neal scored 10 for the Yellow Jackets. 
Purdue 86, Wis. 62 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­Todd Mitchell scored 14 of his team-high 17 points in the first half and Troy Lewis had all 16 of his points in the same period as No. 6 Purdue defeated Wis­consin 86-62 Wednesday to remain tied for first place in the Big Ten Conference with Michigan. 
It was the 21st consecutive Purdue victory over the Badgers, who have lost 16 straight at Mackey Arena. 
Purdue took command with a 19-2 spurt in the first half. The Boilermakers, 18-2 and 7-1, trailed 26-23 with 9:48left in the first half and moved ahead to stay with seven consecutive points. Baskets by Kip Jones and Mitchell put Purdue ahead 30-26 with 7:57 remaining in the half. 
Wisconsin's Tom Malaski cut the deficit to 30-28 with 7: 19 and Purdue scored 12 consecutive points. The streak began with consecutive 3-point shots by Lewis and Everette Stephens. Lewis also made an 18-foot jumper and two free throws after a techinical foul to give Purdue a 42-28 lead with 4: 40 left in the half. 
Wisconsin, 9-9 and 3-5, trailed by 11 at halftime and managed to pull to within nine points three times. The last at 52-43 with 17:53 to play in the game. 
Danny Jones topped Wiscon­sin with 23 points and Trent Jackson had 16 for the Badgers. 
Kentucky 94, Miss. 65 
LEXINGTON, Ky.-Rex Chapman scored five points in a 15-0 run midway through the second half that sparked No. 10 Kentucky to a 94-65 victory over Mississippi in Southeas­tern Conference basketball Wednesday night. 

Kentucky raised its record to 15-3 overall and 7-3 in the SEC, with 17 points and Tim Jumper added 16. 
Pitt. 88, St. John's 71 

NEW YORK-Demetreus Gore scored 19 points and Charles Smith had 18 Wednes­day night as No. 9 Pittsburgh pulled away to an 88-71 victory over No. 20 St. John's. 
In other college basketball action Wednesday, DePaul tripped Indiana State 64-56, Lafayette whipped Towson State 73-60, Louisville slammed South Carolina 68-53, North Carolina State attacked Vir­ginia 75-69, Wake Forest trimmed North Carolina­Wilmington 6.1-58, Dayton edged Chicago State 72-65 in overtime, Valparaiso nipped Butler 56-55, Michigan out­scored Iowa 120-103, Florida rolled past Alabama 74-64, Kansas State topped Iowa State 79-68 in overtime, Missouri crunched Colorado 99-69, LSU clawed Auburn 78-69 and Okla­homa knocked off Kansas 73-65. 
work well on the inside. They didn't play well," said
Vols 
did a good job of flashing and McGraw. "That's a critical 
continued from page 16 going to the basket. We had a time. That's when we need to 
tough time stopping them. play well." Botham were hitting from the You've got to give them a lot "I wasn't particulary im­paint by beating the Vols for of d·edit." pressed with our first half of position inside. Botham led the Tenessee was better than the play," said Tennessee head co­team in scoring with 20 and in Irish on the boards, bringing ach Summitt. "We knliw Notre rebounding with seven, Bunek down 33 to Notre Dame's 19. Dame is a tough place to play, tossed in 17 points and long-The game got a little sloppy but the second half was the dif­range bomber Lisa Kuhns hit with the game already decided ference." four three-point buckets and in the closing minutes, as both Both teams played below finished with 16 points. teams finished with over 20 their expectations on defense, 
"Notre Dame is a good turnovers. as the Vols shot 39 of 63 and the team," said Gordon. "They've "The last three minutes of Irish were 28 of 49 (52 percent). got some good shooters. Sandy the first half and the first three Gordon and her teammates Botham and Heidi Bunek really minutes of the second half, we were able to wear down the 
Irish defensively, despite fre­
~··································* quent substitutions by
i Happy Birthday ! McGraw. "Notre Dame did a good* * job," said Tennessee guard
* * 
Melissa McCray, who finished !* ~ to a very special !* with 10 points. "They made us indecisive on a lot of our shots.
* *
* ~ * We had to go in at the half and 
! T person, ! get ourselves together. We were a totally different team in
* ~ * 
the second half."
* ~ *
! Love, ! The Irish dropped to 0-5 in the series against the always­
* ~ * 
powerful Lady Volunteers, but
* ~ * 
that won't stop the teams from 
!* * * Mom & Dad !* battling again in 1989. 
"We'll play next year," said** H ** McGraw. "We'll go down
! Loretta Boo" Passanante! ! there. We want to keep this se­
~.....•............................: ries going." 
• 
, s 

•
,£in \tJ,iC,;tgO '' 
~~'\JJ rti0rt .o'l"L 
(\)rt01 IJ.(;t't0 _j}-Jtt'tVV 'l"L00 f3 \1 \Jve Theodore's;j)ct Saturday, February 6 Sponsored by SUB and Theodore's 10:00 p.m . 
I--------------------­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1988 

W~estlers prepare for '·Huskers 

1 he Observer I Trey Reyrnond 
Chris Geneser and the Notre Dame wrestlers will have their hands 
full on Saturday, as the Irish go on the road to face national power Nebraska. Notre Dame currently sports a 4-2 dual meet record. 
Belles top St. Francis, Siera Heights up next 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
Mter moving its record up to .500 earlier this week, the Saint Mary's basketball team will try to continue its winning ways tonight against Siera Heights at Angela Athletic Facility. Tipoff is set for 7:00p.m. The Belles evened their record at 8-8 by defeating St. Francis 53­41 on Tuesday night. 
The game started slowly, but the Belles led by a very close margin throughout most of the game and were up 24-21 at the half. 
Saint Mary's picked up the tempo in the second half. The Belles gained a significant lead and dominated St. Francis by a considerable margin for the remainder of the game. 
"We played very well in the 
second half," said Belles coach Marvin Wood. "We had only eight turnovers until the final four minutes." 
The Belles shot 22-for-58 from the field and 8-for-12 from the free throw line. They also pulled down a season-high 40 rebounds. 
"We rebounded a lot better this game," said Wood. We also had good selection on our shots, which made a considerable dif­ference." 
Saint Mary's Radke sisters once again led the way for the Belles. Julie scored 19 points while Tammye added 12. 
Amy Baranko and Jenny Hart topped Saint Mary's in rebounds, pulling down nine and eight, respectively. 
The next game for the Belles will be tonight at Angela Ath­letic Facility against Siera Heights. Tip-off is at 7pm. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
• By MICHAEL GERARD Sports Writer 
Coming off a big victory at the National Catholic Tourna­ment, the Notre Dame wres­
. tling team returns to its dual 
meet season at Nebraska on Saturday. 
The success of the Fighting Irish wrestler at last weekend's National Catholics, held in Cleveland, was a "confidence builder," according to Irish co­ach Fran McCann. 
Ranked in the top 20, the
Cornhuskers return five red­
shirt freshmen this year. Ne­braska and Michigan figure to be the toughest teams on Notre Dame's schedule. 
"They'll probably be in the top 10 by the end of the season,'' said Irish coach Fran McCann. 
The individual matches of 118-pound sophomore Andy Radenbaugh, 134-pound junior Jerry Durso, 142-pound senior Ron Wisniewski, and 177-pound junior Chris Geneser are "must haves," according to McCann. 
Notre Dame's two starting freshmen, 150-pound Todd Layton and 158-pound Mark Gerardi will face the two toug­hest wrestlers from Nebraska. 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch Notre Dame and Indiana will have a soccer rematch this spring, but 
this time the score won't count quite as much. The Irish and Hoosiers will play in an exhibition game in Indianapolis with proceeds going to the 1988 U.S. Summer Olympic team. " 
"I think if we get big wins out of our freshmen, we'll have a good shot at beating them", says co-captain Chris Geneser. 
Sophomore Dave Smith will wrestle at 124 pounds, while Todd Tomazic, coming off a fourth-place finish in Cleveland, will wrestle at 167. George Logsdon, at 190, will be ina "toss-up match," says McCann. Logsdon swept the 190 pound class in the National Catholic last weekend and his match may be the deciding fac­tor this weekend in Nebraska. 
"It could come down to who wins bonus points," adds Durso. 
ND, IU soccer to play benefit 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS-Soccer offi­cials at Indiana University and the University of Notre Dame announced plans Wednesday for an April 14 match in In­dianapolis to raise funds for the 1988 Summer Olympic Games. 
Proceeds for the inaugural Golden Boot Soccer Match will benefit the U.S. athletes going to the Olympic Games in Seoul, South Korea. 
Tickets will go on sale March 1 for the game, which will be played at the Indiana Univer­sity Track and Field Stadium on the campus of Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis. 
"This will be the only athletic event that will be held in In­dianapolis that will give local citizens a chance to show their support for the Olympics," said John Rosebrough, state chair­man of the United States Olym­pic Committee, at a news con­ference. 
' -~ .... I\.. . 
~· f , . ' I .f / . ' _) i-}I ' . '/ I , "--"""--...._,"'-' . 
~ \ ' ~ ·:'.i.·· ~-·'clo....., J •• 
"-~'~ ' .... " >..._ ~ --~-j)~ 
.......... DOffT DIIVf O.UNK, OllniK Willi A.'fOtfl WHO DOtS 


HELLO MIDWAY. CAN VOO GET US OUT OF 1-ifRE? . 
.. 

Low fares are anything but a passing fad on the Midway Connection~ Catch the ConnectionsMto convenient Chicago Midway Airport or beyond. You'll find quick, hassle-free connections to. any of our 28 other destinations. So for flights with lower fares, and more leg room than you see here, call1-800-621-5700, 
or call your travel agent. 

Midwa Connecbon~ 
Midway Airlines• serves AHanta, Boston, Chicago (Midway), Cleveland, Columbus, Dallas/Fl. Worth, Denver. Des Moines. Detroit. Ft lauderdale, Ft Myers, Indianapolis, Kansas City, lasVegas, Miami, Minneapolis/St Paul, Nassau. New Orleans, NewYork (La Guardia). Omaha, Orlando, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Phoenix, St Croix, VI., StThomas, V.I., Tampa, Washington, D.C. (National), and West Palm Beach. 
The Midway Connection• serves Benton Harbor, Bloomington/Normal, Champaign/Urbana, Dubuque, Elkhart, Grand Rapids, Green Bay, Indianapolis, Madison, Muskegon, Peoria, South Bend, Springfield, IL, Traverse City, Waterloo. ~ 1gss Midway Airlines, Inc. 


~----------------------· 
Thursday, February 4, 1988 The Observer 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
f'O!?TNOY, 
NO WJYI1ANIZIN&, 
&IV€ M€ ,q C(Jf(f?@IT 
NO ft!IG/IU?/ZING. 
H£'5 TBWit.ll 
5Cf/Nt:W.. f?EfOfiT 
NO MIU?/JOANA5/ZIN&, 
8€eN COMA. 
NO Afffi-SEMfTICIZING, 
KlXPIN' IUW
ON 8/U THE 
ANCJ M:J 5T(Jfff11CIZING 
t.OW? PE£t. HIM Off
CIIT 
11ft tJIITHf(WM

f"()f( liT U:I/5T llf 
\ ft.OOr<.
MONTH5. 
\ 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 



-
"Dr. St ngelove" 8 & 10 p.m. Friday and Saturda 
Campus 
11 a.m.: Valentine's Day flower sales, $1, North and South Dining Halls. 
12:30 p.m.: Workshop, "The Disappeared in Central America," by Carol Stuart, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 6:30p.m.: Presentation, "How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign," by Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Services, Room 124 Hayes­Healy Center. 10-11 p.m.: Discussion, "Campus Perspectives," with Don Keusal, Urban Plunge 
Coordinator, WVFI-AM 640.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Tomato soup  Baked chicken  
Footlong chili dog  Mostaccioli with cheese  
Beef stew  Chinese  pepper  beef  over  
BBQ pork loin  rice  
Cheese enchiladas  Deli bar  


M 
A 
T 
H 
1 
0 
1 
Comics 


02/04/88 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Assignment 5 A Schell 
10 Red Item 14 Nichols' hero 15 Army groups 16 Crooked 17 Musical 
ending 18 Seat of a kind 20 Puts Into 
office 22 Most petite 23 Merchandise 25 Location 26 Flower cluster 29 Calif. peak 33 Doctrine 34 Sway 36 Asian river 37 Advantage 38 Bandaged 39 1509 40 Galena 41 Pulls 42 -Ia Palx 43 Railroad 

employee ­45 Took a 
breather 47 Derbies 12 Old Fr. 49 A Butler coins 50 Rank too high 13 Small 54 Gives warning barracuda 57 Deflects 19 Place of 59 City In ltalla sacrifice 60 Lost 21 Allowance for 61 USSR river waste 62 -out (makes 24 Flower part 
do) 26 Bend 63 Ayn or Sally 27 Card game 64 Hews 28 Sot 65 Studies 30 Swimming 
move 
DOWN 31 Curtail 1 Rate of speed 32 Put thumbs 2 Old Gr. coin down on 3 Rattlesnake 35 North Sea 4 Four o'clock feeder 


goodies  38 Strong acid  
5 Seafood Item  39 Called forth  
6 Blackbird  41 Core  
7 Frees (of) 8 Particulars  42 Lively dance  50 Sandy ridges  53 Beloved of Narcissus  
9 Lit Into 10 Deep spoons 11 Ye -Shoppe  44 Sewing need 46 Gorges 48 Hide away  51 Tourist necessity 52 Paradise  55 Govt. agents 56 Back talk 58 Animal hide  

Cushing Auditorium $2.00 Admission 

~-~~,~-~~-~~-------------------------------------­



Sports
Thursday, February 4, 1988 page 16 

No. 4 Tennessee women too much for Irish 91-71 
Gordon powers UT shooting stopsdefending champs NO's upset dreams 
By THERESA KELLY By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer Assistant Sports Editor 
Why did the fourth-ranked Lady Volunteers When Tennessee's Bridget Gordon forgot her of Tennessee beat the Irish 91-71last night? winter coat for the team's trip to South Bend, 
Bridgette Gordon. Overwhelming depth. An she was sure she would catch a cold. And she amazing shooting percentage. Bridgette Gor­did. But not on the court. don. A big rebounding edge. All 10 players in Gordon and the rest of the fourth-ranked Lady the scoring column. Bridgette Gordon. Amazing Vols stumped an upset-minded Notre Dame 
-
outside shooting by, of course, Bridgette Gor­team with a red-hot display of perimeter shoot­don. ing last night at the Joyce ACC, pulling away Gordon, Tennessee's high-scoring forward, in the second half for a 91-71 victory. shot the lights out at the Joyce ACC last night, The Irish were nearly as successful from the 
hitting 13 of 15 shots (87 percent) to lead the field, connecting for an impressive .571 shooting Vols' second-half surge that put the Irish away. percentage to the Lady Vols blistering .619 "I know I can shoot pretty well," said Gordon. percentage. The difference was where, and I like to hit from outside, and I look for the shot how, the two teams got their shots. whenever I'm open." Gordon's 26 points led Tennessee, but three 
Notre Dame senior point guard Mary Gavin other players were in double figures and all 10 was successful all night slipping the ball overLady Vols scored for coach Pat Summitt. Ten­the Lady Vols defense and into the hands ofnessee shot 62 percent for the game with most senior forward Sandy Botham and junior center of the buckets coming from 12-to-18 foot Heidi Bunek. The two combined for 15-of-22jumpers. 
shooting and 37 points, taking advantage of a"They had the inside shots and the outside small Tennessee front line. 
shots," said a disappointed Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "That makes them really tough to defend. I'm not really happy with the Down the other end of the court, the Lady outcome. I thought we should've been within 10 Vols displayed a fine-tuned perimeter game to (points) of them." set up often-uncontested jump shots from the 
The inside scoring game kept the Irish within perimeter. Gordon converted an amazing 13-of­reach in the first half. Heidi Bunek and Sandy 15 shots to finish with a game-high 26 points, 
see VOLS, page 13 see SHOTS, page 11 
Women's swim team loses another close one to EMU 
By GREG GUFFEY we needed first and second ning 400 medley relay team toughest competition avail­citement and enthusiasm we Sports Writer place to tie the meet," Irish co­along with Becky Wood, Amy able. That competition does not had for St. Bonaventure is not ach Tim Welsh said. Darlington, and Kathy Quirk. get any easier this weekend, as something we're going to have 
Losing by less than 12 points That was the last event of the "Christy is an outstanding the Irish travel to St. Louis on several weeks in a row," Welsh in collegiate swimming is like evening, and Notre Dame took swimmer," Welsh said. "She's Friday to compete against St. said. "The flame is not there, losing on the suicide squeeze in second, third and fourth. The the kind of swimmer that we Louis and Oral Roberts and but we're well prepared. Oral baseball, the three-pointer at team also took its sixth loss thought could lift the program. then journey back to Indiana to Roberts and Ball State are very the buzzer in basketball, or the against five victories. To add She's very versatile and can swim at Ball State on Saturday. fine teams. If we want to win chip-in in golf. In short, it's insult to injury, the Irish would swim a lot of events. She holds "It's a challenging weekend two meets, we need to swim losing close, something any have won those four meets the university record in both ahead," Welsh said. "We've fast both times." team hopes to avoid. using the scoring system that backstroke events." created a very challenging se­
The Irish women's swim­was replaced two years ago. Also taking firsts for the Irish ries of weekend meets." Don't think that the Irish are ming team, though, is begin­"We're trying to buy a $10 were Wood in the 100 and 200 satisfied with the victory over ning to look like it has invented item with $9," Welsh said. "It breaststroke, Tracy Johnson in The men's squad takes an 8-2 the Bonnies. Notre Dame and perfected the concept of wasn't that the girls weren't the 50 and 100 freestyle and record to St. Louis Friday and already is looking ahead to big­coming up on the short end of ready to swim. I think we Darlington in the 200 free. then also swims the Cardinals ger things. the ledger. The Irish suffered scored all of the points we could Part of the reason that the Saturday in Muncie. The men another close loss to Eastern have scored." Irish are coming up on the are coming off an emotional "We want to go unbeaten the Michigan on Tuesday, 140-128, Freshman Christy Moston short end is the high level of 114-103 victory over St. rest of the season," Welsh said. their fourth loss by 12 points or once again led the Irish with competition in the waters. Bonaventure last Saturday, less. first places in the 100 and 200 Welsh is determined to make their first win over the Bonnies And with the confidence 
Just how close was this Irish backstroke events and a third the Notre Dame program ana­in six years. gained the last few weeks, that loss? in the 200 individual medley. tional power, and the only way thought may not be too un­"In the 400 freestyle relay, She also was part of the win-to achieve that is by facing the "The kind of hi h level ex-realistic. 

Packers finally trying to bury ghosts of titles past 
"The Glory Years" and the ghost of Lombardi films to see how plays were supposed to be run. Cleveland and led Cincinnati to a Super Bowl. are being put away all in one motion. And per­No one could have been better for the story But while everything seemed so right, things haps it's best that way. than Starr, the MVP of Super Bowls I and II. still managed to go so wrong. Even more wrong
Lindy Infante, not a former Lombardi-coached Green Bay Packer fans are a lot like Notre Dame than ever before. player, has been named head coach of the Green football fans. They pride themselves on their Green Bay was still losing fast enough to be Bay Packers. loyalty and love to recount games from the 'good eliminated from the playoffs by Thanksgiving, 
Mter winning the first two Super Bowls played, old days.' Starr was a hero in those old days, so that much hadn't changed. But now the Packers Vince Lombardi's health would not let him con­were working on other records-police records. tinue as head coach. When he later passed away, 
They've shown up in court much more than
Rick
a dynasty died with him. the win column to be sure. James Lofton was 
Since then, the Packers have rebuilt, started accused of sexual assault twice, and Mossy Cade over and rebuilt again and, of course, they have Rietbrock is currently serving time for rape. made the obliga~ory coaching changes. In addition, Ken Stills was caught speeding
Phil Bengston was put in the unenviable posi­Assistant Sports Editor and, in the ultimate showing of team unity, tion of replacing the legend and, as would be falsely identified himself as teammate Walter expected, did not succeed. the old die-hards wanted their boy to come in Stanley. Charles (Yes, I'm the one who slammed 
Dan Devine would be next, and though he would and set things straight again. Just so things could McMahun) Martin was accused of grabbing a lead the Packers to an NFC Central Division be as they once were. woman indecently in a bar and last week defen­championship in 1972, he would be run out of Unfortunately, reality interfered. Things al­sive coordinator Dick Modzelewski got into the town for the fans' hero, Bart Starr. ways seemed to get a little better, yet improve­act by shoplifting some sparkplugs.
.... 
Popular opinion had it that Bengston and ment always eluded the poor old Pack. Things got so bad that Gregg decided it was 
Devine had let the team become a loser, so the Mter a nine-year tenure with a losing record, time to leave. With one year remaining on his Packers had better rebuild with someone who Starr finally was removed for another Lombardi contract, he had to get out before his name would knew how to win -someone who played under era hero, former Packer tackle Forrest Gregg. be tarnished further, so he went down to become Lombardi back when the Packers ruled the This time Green Bay was not getting a man with gridiron and scouts watched Green Bay game no coaching experience. Gregg had coached at see PACK, page 11 
I 







