
Cold shoulder Mostly cloudy with a chance
~~A==C==C==E==N==T==:==Ne==w====tr==e==nd==s====in==c==r==aft==s==================:ll ~ · · ·fl 
of flurries today. Low tonight 1 0 to 15. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow with the high 
1
IVIEWPOINT: A view from Germany . ~ . 
30 to 35. 

NO postpones Israel program 
By CATHY STACY dents and detract from the Assistant News Editor quality of the program. Charles also felt problems 
The Jerusalem foreign study could possibly arise from the program planned for this interaction of students with sol­spring has been cancelled be­diers and other young men and cause of the violence and ten­women their same age who sions in the area, according to were involved in the fighting. Isabel Charles, associate After communicating with provost and director of the Landrum Bolling, the rector in foreign study program. Tantur, and the U.S. State De­
"I felt the situation was just partment, Charles made the too tense to send a group of final decision to cancel the pro­young people (to Jerusalem)," gram on January 6, one week said Charles. Notre Dame's before the twelve students Ecumenical Institute at Tantur were to leave. is located between the Israeli "I was bummed," said soph­and Palestinian factions on the omore Mike Dunn. "It was West Bank, she said. really unexpected. I received a 
"There has always been a letter on New Year's saying concern about terrorism since that if it didn't get better they the program began in 1985, but would cancel the program. I the incidents had always been really didn't have any clue." isolated," said Charles. The Other students who were last few weeks before drawn to Jerusalem because of Christmas seemed to indicate, its history and religious heri­however, that the violence tage described their reactions would be prolonged. as "shocked" and "disap­
"Tantur is very safe itself," pointed." They generally she said, "(and) has very high agreed, however, that Notre walls around it." The tenseness Dame had made the right deci­in the occupied territories, sion. however, would restrict the 
personal freedom of the stu-see ISRAEL, page 6 
Stevenson gives plea of innocent in misdemeanor 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Stevenson was arrested on a preliminary charge of
Senior Staff Reporter 
theft by deception andNotre Dame basketball released on his own recog­player Mark Stevenson nizance. Phillips was ar­pleaded innocent Dec. 28 to rested on a preliminarya criminal conversion charge of criminal conver­charge, a Class A mis­sion and released on $250demeanor, in connection bond.
with an incident last month The prosecutor's officeat University Park Mall, ac­reviewed the case andcording to County Prosecu­decided to proceed with ator Michael Barnes. 
criminal conversion charge, Stevenson will appear Barnes said. 
AprilS in Mishawaka Traffic 
and Misdemeanor Court to 
answer the charges, Barnes 
said. 
Stevenson and Ramona 

Phillips, 20, an employee of 
L.S. Ayres & Co., were ap­prehended around 4 p.m. Dec. 13 by Mishawaka Police after Stevenson was allegedly leaving the store with merchandise that had not been fully paid for, police said. 
Phillips, a cashier, was under surveilance by secur­Mark Stevenson ity officers after the store 


"It (the misdemeanor)
received information that she had not rung up the full was the most appropriate 
charge for the case," Barnes price on other transactions, noted.
police said. 
He added that there wasStevenson had paid for a evidence that Stevenson and pair of socks and a Phillips were acquainted.
turtleneck shirt, but another Stevenson is expected toshirt and sweater were al­play the remainder of thelegedly in the bag and not season,' Sports Informationpaid for, according to police Director John Heisler said. 
re rts. 
\ 
The Observer I Jim Carroll 

No joy in Domerville 
Dedicated Notre Dame fans who made the trek to The Irish were defeated by Texas A & M 35-10. Dallas brave the cold and watch in dismay as things Sports has complete c6verage of the Cotton Bowl don't go well for the Fighting Irish in the Cotton Bowl. on page 16. 


South Bend man arrested for threatening phone calls. 
By JIM RILEY at Notre Dame, according to County prosecutor to see if it 
News Editor Phil Johnson, assistant director will be appropriate to issue 
of Notre Dame Security. charges in this jurisdiction," 
Notre Dame Security 'has ar­The man, Donald Jackley of Johnson said. 
rested a South Bend man in 4033 York Road, was charged He said Security began inves­
connection with threatening with five counts of intimidation tigating the calls in October. 
phone calls made to students and two counts of criminal con­"We worked this case with 
at Notre Dame and Indiana finement, Johnson said. The ar­eight victims," he said. Some­
University at Bloomington. rest warrants were issued in times the caller would phone 
Security made the arrest last Monroe County in connection the student's residence and tell 
Friday in its office on campus with the calls made to Indiana the female student that he was 
after questioning the suspect University students. holding one of her parents cap-
about several complaints "The case has also been 
received from female students referred to the St. Joseph see THREAT, page 6 
U.S., Japan vow to ease tension 
Associated Press fresh resources would be made steps to stimulate economic 
available for the Federal growth and hoped to be able to 
WASHINGTON -President Reserve System to intervene in reduce Japan's trade surplusReagan and Japanese Prime currency markets in support of by $10 billion this year.Minister Noboru Takeshita the battered U.S. dollar. Takeshita, in remarks in the vowed Wednesday to continue The statement, issued as the East Room after the summit to work toward easing trade dollar was again declining in session, said he was hopeful for 
frictions, but they apparently foreign exchange markets a "mutually satisfactory solu­failed to nail down an agree­worldwide, declared that the tion on the pending issue of ment on the thorny issue of U.S. United States and Japan "have access to major Japanesework on Japanese construction developed arrangements to as­public works." 'projects. sure the adequacy of resources However, administration of­
At the same time, the two for their cooperative efforts" in ficials were less optimisticleaders also sought to reassure the markets. about a new Japanese plan to shaky financial markets with a Meanwhile, Takeshita said joint statement hinting that his government was taking see JAPAN, page 5 
~--~-~--­
--~--~---­
page 2 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1987 


In Brief · 
President Reagan said he felt "pretty good" on Wednesday after being up much of the night with an upset stomach and nausea. In what was called a coincidence, he will enter the hospital Friday for a six-month checkup to guard against a recurrence of colon cancer. In addition, he will have a chest X-ray, a stress test and a CAT scan, which is akin to a three-dimension X-ray. "It's all part of his routine examination," Fitzwater said. Reagan cut back his schedule Wednesday but went ahead with a late­morning meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita. -Associated Press 
Arthur Pears, Director of Notre Dame Security from 1965 to 1978, died 'Dec. 11 at St. Joseph's Medical Center after an illness. Pears was chief of police in Niles, Mic­higan before serving at Notre Dame. Pears was 73 when he died. -The Observer 
Bookbag thefts have started again at South Dining Hall, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. He said students are allowed and encourag~d to carry their books into the seating areas. Johnson sa1d he encouraged students to write their names on an inside page of their books so they can identify them if they are recovered. -The Observer 
Security .apprehended two peopl_e for allegedly breaking into student vehicles parked m campus lots during break. Johnson said six or seven vehicles were burglarized. Security had received no reports of student dorm rooms being broken into as of Wednesday afternoon, Johnson said. -The Observer 
Profiteers anda smallerstadiumhavecombined to drive up the market price of Super Bowl tickets, effec­tively putting them out of reach of the average fan. An end zone seat is going for about $800 and a seat on the 50-yard line costs up to $2,000 at Murray's Tickets in Anaheim, Calif., said the firm's Mike Crowley. Super Bowl tickets have a face value of $100, up from the $75 charged the past two years, but they are extremely difficult to acquire at the set price because public sale is virtually nonexistent. About 2,000 tickets are sold to fans who write in to participate in an annual Super Bowl ticket lottery. Those whose names are picked can buy two tickets. The Jan. 31 game is being played at San Diego Jack Murphy Stadium, which will seat about 73,000 people, well below the capacity of the 100,000-seat Rose Bowl, site of last year's Super Bowl. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
No problem too large for advice columnists 
I have a confession to make. 
For the past few weeks I have found myself 
doing something very strange every afternoon, 
and my conscience is beginning to get to me. 
Every time a copy of the South Bend Tribune 
arrives at; the office I turn past the exciting 
front page news, throw aside the sports section, 
and head for my favorite advice columns. I 
admit it, I have become an advice column 
junkie. And the worst part about this whole 
mess is that I hardly ever agree with the advice 
published in these columns. 
The "Big Three" advice columnists that ap­
pear in most newspapers are Dear Abby, Ann 
Landers and Miss Manners. After reading all 
of these authors almost every day, I am begin­
ning to notice a pattern developing in the letters 
that these particular advice gurus choose to 
address. 
DEAR ABBY LANDERS: 
I am a 45-year-old mother often children. My husband, who works 80 hours a week at his two jobs in the coal mine, does not spend enough time with our children. 
I am at my wits end, Abby Landers, and I could think ofno one better than you to turn to for help with my problem. What should I do about my husband's obvious neglect of his pa­rental duties? Please run my letter, I need to know about this now! 
Sign me, Confused in Kokomo 
DEAR CONFUSED: This guy just does not seem to care about you or the kids. I would file for a divorce immediately, make sure you get as much child support as possible, and start looking for a real husband and father. 
With the stroke of a pen, these sage advisors dole out the solutions to peoples' problems with­out batting an eye. People like me, of course, love to read others' problems just to assure themselves that they are better off than the schleps who are spilling their guts to some "wise woman" who seems to have all the answers. 
On the more urbane side of the advice busi­ness is Judith Martin, Miss Manners. Baffled readers write into her to find the answers to all of those pressing questions of etiquette that cause most of us a great deal of stress. 
DEAR MISS MANNERS: 
My 15 year-old daughter has cancer and only three weeks to live. My husband and I have decided to give her a dinner party for her w4ning days. My husband says that we should have engraved invitations sent to our guests. I say that hand-written invitations would suffice. 

Can you solve this dilemma for us? We have not slept in weeks thinking about it. 
GENTLE READER: Miss Manners would like to remind you that, although engraved invita­tions are always the best choice for any occa­sion, you can always substitute hand-written cards if you are pressed for time. Given the fact that your lovely, gentle daughter may pass on soon, I would suggest the hand-written va­riety. 
Now that I have caught on to the general pattern of the Big Three, I am beginning to be partial to the advice columnist in the Weekly World News, a tabloid that falls about ten paces behind the National Enquirer in believability and class. Her column is called Dear Dotti, and she is a breath of fresh air in comparison to the other advisors. 
When a woman wrote in to ask what she should do about her husband who was having an affair, Dotti answered, "If you're woman enough to get another man, dump him. Ifyou're fat and ugly, hold onto what you've got--no mat­ter how he treats you." 
Now that is what I call advice. No flowery rhetoric. No corny cliches. I think I am going to trade in my daily dosage of the Big Three to save up for Dotti's weekly words of wisdom. At least she tells it like it is. 
Sign me, 
Editorially Emaciated 


Center for Social Concerns begins the celebration of its fifth anniversary this afternoon with an Open House from 4 to 7 p.m. Light supper will be served. All are wel­come. -The Observer 
Amadeus auditions will be held in Washington Hall at 7:00pm. For information call Notre Dame Communi­cations and Theatre at 239-5134. -The Observer 
JPW Executive Committee will have a mandatory meeting in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor of LaFortune at 6:00pm. -The Observer 
Attention Juniors: JPW ticket applications are due Friday January 15, 1988. -The Observer 
WVFI news mandatory scheduling meeting will be held tonight at 7 in 120 O'Shaughnessy.-The Observer 

Design Editor ................... Matt Breslin Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Design Assiatant .............. Michelle Dall Typesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Micheal Buc ~~:.~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Ly;;d:!; ~:3 ......•............................... Mark Ridgeway ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee News Editor....................... Scott Bearby SMC Day Editor . . . . ... . . . .. . . . . Karin Rader Copy Editor ............. Kendra Lee Morrill Photographer ....................... Jim Carroll Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen 
De 0111ener (USPS S99 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday except dwilla exam and vacation periods. ne Olleener is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUeae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester} by writina ne Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
ne Olllener is a member of ne Mlodaled rr-. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Impress 

SrtC .ANNOUNC£8: 

OPEN 

A.UD1T10N8. 
:F'oT: 

aLA88 nENAa:E:R.'LE 
Dtncted &y R.o&erta N. R.ud.e anc:l a studto procLuc:tt.on &y: R.o&ert a.. SmalL 
JA.NUARy 14, 15 
7:00p.m. to 10:00 p.rra.. 0 'LaW3hli-n Audi-tori-um on and off s~e openi-nqs! 
:fo..-i-nfo anc:l stA;Jn-u.ps contact: COTH. office 110 :M.ona.u. 284-4640 
Students auditioning for both Glass Menagerie and Amadeus should audition on separate days. 

Thursday, January 14, 1987 The Observer
. page 3 

CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP. will hold a presentation for its Sales Training Program on January 14th at 7:00 pm in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn All Senior Business and Arts and Letters Majors are invited to attend. Moderately informal attire. Light refreshments will be served.  



Bink: 'Queen for a day' 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
News Editor 
They called her Miss Notre Dame, but Student Body Vice President Laurie Bink was really queen for a day. 
Dressed in the gown she wore to her junior prom, the Breen­Phillips Hall senior represented Notre Dame on a float Jan. 1 in the nationally televised Cotton Bowl parade in Dallas, Tx. 
She also shared a float with female representatives from seven. Southwest Conference schools during halftime of the game. 
Most of the other women, however, were homecoming queens, Bink said. 
High school drug use declines 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Cocaine use by hlgh school seniors fell 20 percent last year, the first time in more than a decade there has been a significant decrease, federal health offi­cials said Wednesday. 
Marijauna smoking and other illicit drug use continued a seven-year slide, according to an annual survey conducted for the Department of Health and Human Services. 
"Despite the long-term downward trend for most illicit drugs, cocaine use in each of the past 13 years has either in­creased or remained essen-
In late NoV'ember, Cotton Bowl officials sent a letter to Executive Vice President Fa­ther William Beauchamp as­king for a female representa­tive to act as Miss Notre Dame during the week of the Cotton Bowl, Bink said. According to Bink, Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs Father David Tyson said that since she was elected by the students, it was the fairest thing to do. 
Bink said she initially thought she would represent Notre Dame only at cocktail parties and luncheons. She said it wasn't until the early part of December that she found out about the float and parade. 
Flying to Dallas on the Dec. 
tially stable," HHS secretary Otis Bowen said at a news con­ference. "For the class of 1987, however, we finally see a sig­nificant downturn in cocaine use." 
There have been slight decreases in cocaine use in three other years, but nothing approaching the magnitude of the 1986-87 drop. 
"Attitudes toward cocaine and other illicit drugs now reflect a greater awareness among our young people of the dangers of drug use," said Bowen, citing the highly publicized cocaine-related deaths of college basketball star Len Bias and professional 29, Bink attended a brunch, luncheon, cocktail party, and New Year's Eve Ball with the homecoming queens as well as Notre Dame, TeJ~<as A&M and 
Cotton Bowl officials. 
"Down there they called you Miss Notre Dame," she said. "I call myself a representa­tive." 
Bink said she felt a little silly. "I wondered what people would think," she said. "It's not something I'm accustomed to doing. I felt a little uncomfort­able." 
It would, however "have been an insult to the Cotton Bowl Committee if we didn't send anybody," she said. "It's part of their southern tradition. To them, it wasn't silly." 
football player Don Rogers as one probable reason. 
"1t is indeed a shame that the deaths of many talented young people took place before the danger of cocaine use was widely believed by our youth," said Bowen. 
At the White House, spokes­man Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan and the first lady "welcome these trends. The president has often said we have to stop the demand for drugs first, and these results show a growing number of kids are just saying no. It is wel­come news indeed." 
Laurie Bink gets a free ride in the Cotton Bowl representative for the festivities. Story at left. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
· LaFortune. 

The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1987
page 4 

,----------~--~--------~---­
r:·-:-:-:-:-·---------_____________ -----_____________________________________________ ::-:-:-::---:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-: --------------------------____________ -_-_-______________________ -_________ ----_ -_-______ -_ 
··:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~~ 
h Y has Macintosh b~come the most popular computer among faculty and students in academia? 

Well, maybe it's because: 
You can get started right away since 

touse. ~~ 
6·· 
You can also comn1unicate \Vith other systen1s like 
DEC®, IBM® and Cyber®. 

0 

. ·-· .
o' 
• --· 0
. --.

~·
%' 0 

Although it comes with everything you need, you can expand your 
Macintosh even further without giving up true portability. ~c............... 


~ 



And as a fulltime student, faculty or staff member, you can buy one before 

·~~~~~:t::~·~~~~ january 15 at a price you won't want to miss. 







·~~~~Erll,::.:::~..-51 
Macintosh 
The power to be your l)est. 
T\1 
for information contact The Notre Dame Computing Center 239-7477. 

:-Applr and t,N, Appl~ Logo &I'<' ~'<'gi.!trr~d tra<kmarlu of Appl~ Computrr, Inc. Macinto•h i.! a tra<kmark of Appl~­::-DEC i• a r~gi•trr~d trad.,mark of Digital Equipment Corporation. IBM i.! a ,..,gi.!tl!,..,d tra<kmark of lntl!mational Bu•i=•• Machin~• Corporation. Cyber i• a trad.,mark of Control Data Corpora ::ion. . . . . : ...:. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :-:.:.:.:.:.:':.:-:-:.:.:.:-:-:.:-:.:-:-:0:-:.;.:.;-:.:-:-:.;.;.:.:-;.:.:.:.:-:.;·>:-:.:-:-:.:·:·:-:.;-:-:.:.:-:·:·:-:-:·:·:. >:.:·:·: <.:.;-:.:-:.:-:.;-:-:.;.:.;-:-:.;.:-:.;-: ·>;.:<.:.;.;.;.;.;.:.;.;.;.:.;.;. ;. :.;.; <·>;.:';.:.:.;':.;.:.;.:.;.:-:.;.;.;.:0:.;.; .:-:.;.:.;.;.;.;. :-;.:.;.;.:-;.;.:.;.:.;.:.;.;.;.;.:.:.:.:.;.;.:.:-:.;.;.:.:-;.;.:.;.;.:.;.:-:-:.:0:.;.;.;.;.;.:.:.:.;.:.;.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:':.;':.:.:':.: 




page 5

Thursday, January 14, 1987 The Observer 
anonymity, said the Japanese tween the two leaders since port," he said. Politics overture was only "a Takeshita took office in No­Administration officials had

Japan 
framework. It doesn't itself vember. expressed hope before the 

continued from page 1 resolve all the problems that Standing alongside the new meeting that the president rage on are involved." Japanese leader at a departure would develop the same warm 
give U.S. construction compan­The projects involved are ex­ceremony, Reagan said, "I relationship with the 63-year­in 1988
ies more access to Japanese pected to total up to $60 billion found that our views on inter­old Takeshita that he had with 
Asspciated Press

projects after the Reagan­over the next 10 years. U.S. of­national questions coincide to former Prime Minister 
Takeshita session than they ficials said the plan includes a remarkable degree." Yasuhiro Nakasone. Pat Robertson defended his had been Tuesday. joint ventures between Ameri­"We discussed the vital is­plan to eliminate tobacco in the A senior official, who briefed can and Japanese companies. sues of the day and established Takeshita called the meeting face of Southern outrage on reporters on condition of It was the first meeting be-an excellent personal rap-"cordial and candid." Wednesday, declaring "I'm on 
first test of the 1988 presidential season appeared headed for confusion rather than a clear winner.
PLAY YOUR CARDS RIGHT AND 
Robertson, the former televi­sion preacher, said there was no question that smoking causes cancer, birth defects and heart disease as he cam­paigned for the GOP presiden­tial nomination in tobacco­



YOU'LL GET MORE 
producing South Carolina. 
The state has been consid­ered one of his Southern stron­gholds, with its GOP primary scheduled three days before the Super Tuesday primaries in

SPECIAL SAVINGS. 


~ D~ 

~:HOT, FRESH~
\ I ii.l 

MAKES THESE DEALS WINNERS. 
I 
\ 
II. 
a 
Sometimes we just don't know when to stop. Not only 

Call Us! 

does Domino's Pizza'· deliver a great deal like Doubles­South Bend two pizzas for one special price-but now we've topped 277-2151 that off with even more 1835 South Bend Ave. savings. And Domino's Pizza delivers its freshly-baked, custom-made pizza in 30 Limited delivery area. minutes or less. Or we'll slice Our drivers carry less another $3 off the price. So than $20.00. clip these coupons and call c 1988 Dommo's P1zza. Inc Domino's Pizza today. 

r-···------------, r-··------------., 
I I 
I Great Think I 
I I 

I Meal Thick I 
I I 

I Deal $8.88 $6.00 
I I Just $8.88 for two regular Only $6.00 for a 12" pizza I small cheese pizzas. with thick crust, extra I Not valid with any other cheese and pepperoni. I oHer. Additional toppings Good on Thursdays only. I available at reaular price One coupon per order. I I I Not valid with any other I Expires: 11.31188 I I oHer. I I I 
I I I II.Expires 
11.31188
I I I 
I Vahdat part1C1pat1n~ stores only I I Customer pays app •cable sales tax 1
I I 
® I
I I Valid at part1c1pat1nW· stores only Customer pays app 1cable sales
I I li

L .J
tax.

L.••••••••••••••.J 


Byrd mentioned as possible
Expires: 

11.31 188 alternatives Sens. Bill Bradley and Sam Nunn, Gov. Mario 
® 

Cuomo--and himself. "I know I 
Valid at part1C1pat1nJ stores only Customer pays app 1cable sales could do as good a job," he told tax the Charleston Daily Mail. In Michigan, Bush won a le­



'---------------.1 
gal battle Tuesday when a federal judge rejected a Kemp and Roberston challenge to state laws governing the meetings. 
® 

r-···-----------.,
I I 
I Dinner I
I 

I for 4 I I 
I I 

I $10.99 I 
I I 
Ask for the Dinner for 4 
I 

special and get a 16" 
two-topping pizza plus 
four icy cold 12 oz. cans 
of Coke" for just $10.99. 
One coupon per order. 
Not valid with any other 
offer. 

the rest of the South. Robertson 
insisted he was unworried by 
the brushfire that erupted over 
his call for phasing out the 
tobacco industry in seven to 10 
years. 

"I defy anybody to defend 
giving anybody else lung can­
cer," Robertson said, adding 
that he is a reformed 1-pack-a­
day smoker. 
Robertson was in an uneasy 
alliance with Michigan sup­
porters of Rep. Jack Kemp as 
they prepared to do battle with 
Vice President George Bush's 
forces at county conventions 
Thursday night. 
Bush's chief rival, Bob Dole, 
who has bypassed the Michigan 
contest, campaigned .in Iowa 
and called for more affordable 
health care for the elderly and 
tried to put aside his feud with 
Bush. 

Among the Democrats, Rep. Richard Gephardt renewed his calls for tougher trade policies and said most new jobs in the country pay poverty-level wages. 
"A lot of people say the un­employment rate is down and that's great, (but) you'd better take another look," he told high school students in Manchester, 
N.H. ''The unemployment rate is down, but all the new jobs, about two-thirds of them, are poverty level or below jobs. And I don't think anybody in this room wants to work for $3 or $4 'an hour." 
Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis also was campaigning in New Hampshire, site of the nation's first primary Feb. 16, while Sen. Albert Gore, Jr., visited a homeless shelter in New York, Jesse Jackson cam­paigned in Alabama, and Bruce Babbitt went looking for money in Los Angeles. 
Voicing dissatisfaction with the field of Democratic con­tenders, Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia said in an interview published Wednesday that he hopes no candidate emerges from the primaries and that a brokered national convention would look to others not in the race. 
The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1987
page 6 


Israel expels Palestinians, 1gnor1ng protests 
Associated Press lands Israel captured from Jor­boy was in serious condition a 40-year-old man shot 10 days Israel expelled Jabril Mah­
dan and Egypt in the 1967 with bullet wounds in the chest. ago. The report could not be moud Rujub, Jamal 
JERUSALEM -Israel ex­Middle East war. More than 30 Military officials said they confirmed independently. Mohammed Jibara, Bashir pelled four Palestinian ac­people have been killed, could not confirm the Gaza According to the Israeli mil­Ahmed Al Kheiri and Hussam tivists from the occupied ter­hundreds wounded and death, but said soldiers near itary officials, a young man Abdul Rahman Khader despite 

ritories yesterday, ignoring thousands arrested. the West Bank town of Ramal­and another aged 65 were a U.S. warning that the action international protests, and its In Washington, State Depar­lab opened fire on Arabs who wounded in separate shooting might cause further unrest and soldiers killed two Arabs in the tment spokesman Charles Red­threw stones and iron bars, kil­incidents in the Ramallah area. violate the Geneva Conven­riot-torn West Bank and Gaza man said of the deportations: ling a 19-year-old man. Hospitals in Gaza reported tions on the rights of civilians Strip. "That's an action we deeply The confirmed number of four people wounded by gunfire in occupied areas. 
Arabs began to riot while a regret." deaths, not including the one Wednesday and 10 women A statement from the mili­United Nations envoy visited a reported by the U.N. doctor, treated for injuries caused by tary command said the four, Palestinian refugee camp. He A U.N. doctor, speaking on stood at 33 on Wednesday. rubber bullets. who have served prison terms and the Israeli government ac­condition of anonymity, said Palestine Press Service, an A report by Israeli army as Palestine Liberation Or­cused each other of causing it. the body of a 12-year-old boy Arab-run agency, said three radio said a soldier and a bor­ganization activists, were 
A cabinet meeting ended killed by gunfire was taken to more people died of injuries der policeman were wounded "among the leaders of the in­with no announcement of new the Jabaliya refugee camp suffered previously: a 4-by Palestinians with knives in stigators and organizers of the measures to deal with the vio­clinic in Gaza. Shifa Hospital month-old girl and 12-year-old Gaza's Khan Yunis refugee disturbances" in the occupiedlence that began Dec. 8 in the in Gaza City said a 10-year-old girl suffocated by tear gas, and camp. West Bank. 
Bloomington and contacted the The twelve students returned Others mentioned financial police at Indiana University. to campus this spring, some difficulties with shipping their 

Threat Israel
After the Indiana University facing housing problems and belongings home and then back police investigated the calls difficulty in obtaining the class to school. They also regretted
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
made to Bloomington, they ob­schedules they wanted. "They having to cut their vactions 
tive, Johnson said. "In other tained warrants for Jackley's "It's too bad it had to happen said when you get back you're short and coming back to calls, they called not the stu­arrest. now," said sophomore Pete not guaranteed housing and school a week earlier than they dent but the students' parents Morgan. "My parents were you have no classes,'' said expected to leave for Israel. ' or the boyfriend of the student" Notre Dame Secur-ity then very relieved, especially my Dunn. Though most have been Dunn said he had just bought and said that the student was asked Jackley to come in for mom. They had always been able to~ get the classes they a Hebrew scrabble game and being held, said Johnson. questioning concerning the very supportive and never said needed during registration, learned the Hebrew alphabet 
Johnson said Security noticed Notre Dame cases, Johnson no, but it was a big relief when some had problems getting the day before he was told the a similarity between some of said. After the questioning, Se­they heard it was cancelled." back into their rooms that had trip was cancelled. the cases. "Four ofthe students curity arrested Jackley. He Tracy Burke expressed already been promised to other had come in on the same flight was incarcerated in the St. similar reactions in her family. in-coming students. This was the first Jerusalem or the same night" at Michiana Joseph County jail and then "They would say, 'Thank God! "We contacted housing right program ever cancelled, said Regional Airport, he said. transferred to a jail in Monroe You'll be safe,' and then say, off and told them prior to (the Charles, but she expects this 
County. 'Oh, that's too bad you can't decision to cancel) that it might foreign study program to 
Jackley, who worked at the Johnson said the cases of the go.'" Senior Dan Strub spent be a possibility,'' said Charles. reopen in the fall of 1988. Mor­airport at the time, came under threatening calls at Notre one month in a kibbutz in Israel "They have been very coopera­gan, Burke and Dtinn are con­suspicion in the course of the Dame are still considered two years ago and is familiar tive." sidering reapplying next year. investigation. open. "We are sending up what with the tension between the Burke said she was originally 
we have now" to the St. Joseph Jews arid the Arabs. "It's the told by her rector that she "This is the biggest thing I 
Johnson said Security sub­County prosecutor who is con­only place on earth where there couldn't move back into her ever looked forward to in my poenaed the suspect's tele­sidering whether charges will will always be so much atten­quad and would have to move life. I'm going to try going phone records. Security be filed in the Notre Dame tion,'' he said. The opportunity into a freshmen quint. She was again...I realized how ill­noticed a number of calls to cases, Johnson said. to learn more about the politi­told a junior would be moving prepared I really was with the 
cal problems and experience into her room instead because language and I have a whole them firsthand attracted many it would be difficult for a junior year now to prepare," said of the students to study abroad. to move in with freshmen. Dunn. 


Whether you're into business, 
. . . 
sctence or engtneerm__g, a TI calculator can make your courses easier to take. 
Every year, thousands of hapless students watch their course load become an overload. And every year, the smart ones among them pick up a TI calculator and take a load off. 
Tl calculators have all the right functions you need. We offer every, thing from advanced scientifics that clock your performance to programmables that speak your language to a solar,powered calcu, lator that highlights your answers, even in low light conditions. 
And the large, color,coded keys and simple keyboard layouts make TI calculators easier to use than any other. Maybe that's why more students rely on TI calculators than any other brand. 


"Tr,.demark of Texas Instruments Incorporated ©1988 Tl. 

Thursday, January 14, 1987 
The Observer page 7 

'Type A's' recover from heart trouble 
Associated Press 
In the 1960s, a large research 
BOSTON -Hard-driven men project called the Western Col­with Type A personalities are laborative aroup Study con­almost twice as likely as less cluded that m(m with Type A aggressive people to survive personalities were twice as heart disease, according to a likely as their easy-going coun­study that challenges the ad­terparts, the Type B's, to suffer vice that heart attack victims heart attacks and heart pain should slow down and relax. called angina. •.
The research also casts new doubt on the theory that Type That study, based on eight A behavior puts people at years of follow-up, was the first higher risk of getting heart dis­major evidence of a link be­ease in the first place. That tween Type A behavior and idea has already been ques­heart trouble. It is still the only tioned by several other re­study of its kind to find such an searchers in recent years. association. 
"I am coming more to the According to the theory, opinion that Type A behavior 'I'ype A's are ambitious, ir­may not have much to do with ritable, competitive people, al­coronary heart disease in the ways in a hurry. Type B's are final analysis," said Dr. David more self -secure and patient Ragland, who directed the and don't let small aggrava­
The Observer I Jim Carroll latest study. tions bother them. 
Cheered up 
The Notre Dame cheerleaders get fans psyched up fans probably could have used some post-game at the Cotton Bowl pre-game pep rally in Dallas. The cheering up as well. 
Accident victim almost recovered from coma, injuries
Associated Press my worst enemy, but it could Lynch said her parents suf-moving to the city to find a job several times in the past anct have been worse." fered while wondering if she as a substitute teacher. He was convicted on charges of bur-
ELIZABETHTOWN, Ky.-It Following the three weeks of would survive. with some friends who visited glary and fleeing police, said has been a lo~g road back ~or unconsciousness, Lynch spent "My right side of my face her one night while she was on Indianapolis police detective Kathy Ly!lch sm~e she ~as kid-months of surgery and was shattered. I've got scars duty. Albert Alford, Jr., who inves­napped I!I . India.napo~Is and recovery during which she re-everywhere except my toes," "They introduced us," she tigated the case. cnt~cally InJUred m a. fiery car created her memory by she said. "But I don't even re-said. "I just nodded, you know. Alford said witnesses told accident that left her m a coma reading newspapers and books member being in the hospital. I didn't think anything about him Lynch and Dean later met for three weeks. and talking about old times They were there the whole time it." more than once, but that Lynch 
"It could have been worse," with her family. Now she's at-wondering if I was going to But Dean scratched her ini-hadn't intended "to make a said Lync~, 25. "I could easily tending classes full time at the die." tials on the bullets he carried thing out of this." have been paralyzed; I could University of Louisville and Lynch met Robert Dean, 27, with him, and he wrote her "But he was persistent," Al­have lost an arm. I wouldn't waiting to move into a dor-in 1986 at an Indianapolis res-name on boxes of ammunition. ford said. "He wouldn't leave wish what happened to me on mitory. taurant where she worked after Dean had been arrested her alone." 


The Tl-95 PROCALe" is our 
The Tl-60 Advanced 
.• 
ill/ 
most powerful, top ofthe line advanced Scientific features such

~0/,.'/

.;. l/1 scientific with a full range ofscientific, built-in functions as hexa­
' ,,,,l/1 

mathematic and statistical functions. decimal/octal conversions, It uses redefinable function keys to integration using Simpson's

··,~··· 

TheTl
provide easy access to functions with rule, statistics (including
----~ Business
menu-like windows and has aflexible linear regression), trend line 
Analyst Solar
"""' 
file management system to conveniently analysis and metric to English 
----
features TI 's .....---':''' ·;-. 
store programs and data. The TI-95 conversions. There are also exclusive Anylite
offers optional accessories such as Solid 84 programming steps for Solar™technol­
State Software™ cartridges, an BK constant memory repetitive calculations. 
og;y, so you can
cartridge, a portable printer and cassette interface. 
use it in any light. Preprogrammed formulas help 
you speed through accounting, finance 
The Tl-65 Technical and statistics problems. Analyst 1M offers all ofthe built-in functions ofthe The Tl-74 BASICALC™ is a calculator that you 

So pick up a TI calculator today. 
TI-60, plus astopwatch/ p;;;;;:;;;;;IIBIIIIlalllifl.ill can program in BASIC It 
It'll save you a lot of grief.
timer for labwork, eight physical constants for 
to 41 commonly used And that's good news in itself. 
use in thermodynamics and physics as well as Decision Programming advanced scien­(if. .. then) capabilities. . tific calculator, There are also 100 pro­offering 70 prepro­TEXAS. gramming steps for grammed scientific repetitive calculations. functions. INSTRUMENlS 





Viewpoint

page 8 Thursday, January 14, 1987 
lnnsbruck: a foreign study experience 

Hello from the middle of Europe, at Innsbruck, Austria. Those of us in Notre Dame's Study Program here thought we'd let you all know a little about life at Innsbruck, even if it did take a little prodding from our Director and his superiors before we (l) actually got our (my) act together enough to write. 
Greg Scheckler 
guest column 
Considering that we're in a German­speaking country this year, one of our biggest challenges is striving to get used to the language. But actually it's a lot more fun than I made it just sound. There's nothing quite the same as watching ''Raumschiff Enterprise'' (Star Trek to us English speakers) or "Bezauberer Jeannie" (I Dream of Jeannie) in German television, or walking into a bar only to realize that everybody there speaks German. Either way you look at it, sign language and nonverbal communication are be­coming very important, even when our German is better today than yesterday. 
One of the more important aspects this year is, of course, the founding of friendships with Austrians, with friends at classes in the university, to sponsor families and roommates in the dor­mitories. From conversations over din­ner to arguments about nuclear politics to the friendly day-to-day "hello"s, "good-bye"s and "how are you?"s, ex­periencing a new culture provides end­lessly interesting situations that create fast friends. Also among the 21 of us here in the Notre Dame Program, we've all made close friends within the group--friends that we'll all gladly take back with us to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and even Marquette next year. We sometimes depend on each other for that occasional, okay very often, is­land of English when we get tired of speaking German during the day. 
Speaking of depending, much of life here is a matter of survival--by that I mean trying to cook. Stories of ex­ploded soft-boiled eggs, toast burnt on one side and still soft on the other, and trying to cook everything on hot plates when you have no oven are com­monplace, often giving us that neces­sary daily dose of humor. But then suc­cess stories about that first perfect cup of tea, Kraft Macaroni and Cheese, chocolate chip cookies, lasagna and 
Doonesbury 
/?&61?£551/'Ki? OF NO, I MEAN 
COiJRSE YOU'!?& A PAfir-1-/Fe 
Re6/?£'351NG! ~ION!
l fi/HATE/..513 15 rM A TIM£3 
1 

-. N~~ VOYA6~ ( 
I 

spaghetti like Mom makes, and local specialties like Wienerschnitzel remind all of us that we, though inept we may be at first, can actually survive on our own. Some of us even remembered Emil's formulas for converting Fah­renheit to Celsius degrees, and I never thought that Chern 115-116 would do anybody's cooking any good. 
Not only do we speak German, make many new friends, and try to survive, but also we travel around a lot. So far this year many of us have visited Ger­many, Greece, Czechoslovakia, Hun­gary, and Italy, to name a few countries, and we still have more than seventy days of vacation to go. From sleeping on beaches in Sylt, to discover­ing what a youth hostel really is, to seeing more of the Koblenz train station 


D2 needs to be made safer 
Dear Editor: 

Picture this future Observer head­line: Student murdered in D-2 after parking car. 
I'd like to address the community on the issue of security at the Notre Dame. The campus itself, on-campus that is, is a relatively, safe area as most would agree. One can freely wander the campus at day or night in most areas and not have to worry about being robbed, raped, or molested in any m~n­ner. We can congratulate the security department for that fact because of the fine job they have done within the con­fines of campus. 
Turning to "off-campus," however, we see the state of security to be a dif­ferent story. First, let me define off­campus as I refer to it in this letter: areas outside the confines of north and south quads, namely the parking lots that surround campus. How many times a week do we read in Security Beat that a car was vandalized or a radio was stolen? Plenty. It is a com­mon occurrence here. Off-campus is not safe. The lots are dark, under patrolled--both day and night--and open for anyone to freely enter at any time of day. We have seen many results of this lack of security already in the Se­curity Beat. How long will it be before 
Y&S,ANlJ50 

HOW n: YOfJ 60T YOfJR­
IAIIU. YOU.' tv!3U 

t;EU-REIJORN AU. 7HC. 
M£?6TAGAIN IN 

IA/tiY 70 TH& 2IJ1H C£N­
TH&20rHCEN­
TURY~ 
TlJRY.' \ 

than the city itself, to meeting really 
friendly bartenders and hotel owners in Greece, to pilfering pieces of the Ber­lin Wall, travel plays an important role in our lives here. 
I suppose I ought to mention that we actually take classes here at Innsbruck, too. Each of us has at least five classes that are Notre Dame credits taught mostly in German. Many of us also take courses directly through the University of Innsbruck, for transfer credits to Notre Dame. 
That's a very brief overview of life in Innsbruck, from the language, the friendships, the survival, the travel and the academics. I would like, however, to extend a special note to all of you considering study abroad next year, es­pecially those of you thinking about In-

P.O. Box Q 
a student or faculty member returns to Security Beat? How long will it be before a student or (acuity member re­turning to his or her car is robbed, raped, beaten or even murdered? I think at the rate we are going, it is just a matter of time. 
"So where is Security," you ask your­self. Aren't there a few cars and foot­persons patrolling the area? The an­swer is yes, but they are busy doing important things like raising money by distributing tickets or using their new toy, the speed gun. Now I'm not one to say that these things arep't important, but I think they're missing the point. These forms of enforcement should be continued, but let's think about off­campus now, before it is too late. 
To sum it all up, I have a short list • of the many things would improve the 
nsbruck. All of us here now remember 
the difficulties there are in deciding to 
go, but now we also know what 
everybody meant when they said "It's 
great! Go for it!" This year has been 
and will continue to be one of the most 
amazing years of our lives, and if you 
study abroad you can make it just as 
great, giving yourself experiences you 
could not find anywhere else in this 
world. And for those of you thinking 
about coming to Innsbruck, remember 
that if your soft-boiled eggs explode, 
you can always tell the Austrians about 
this wonderful new American specialty 
that you just happened to cook for 
them! 

Greg ScheckZer is a sophomore enrolled in the 87!88 Innsbruck Program. 
situation. Put a guard at the entrance 
of D-2 and get some barbed-wire on the 
fences. Improve the poor lighting. Pa­
trol D-6 and other ar~"'' th:>t are too small to warrant a full-time guard or are not used as much at night (off­campus student and faculty parking) with more frequency, though random­ly. How do we pay for it? Well at $35 for on-campus cars and $10 for off­campus cars, I think there is plenty of money. The money we spend now on parking just needs to be pulled out the "black hole" it goes into. With a little push from student government and the faculty, the changes can take place in almost no time at all. That's a result of the inherent beauty of them: they're simple and easy to implement. Marc MiZZer Off-Campus Jan. 13, 1988 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something in­tellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, 

IN. 46556. 

Garry Trudeau 
IJIIU I 8!3 YUP!......_ 
GliTTINGA {1)/(TOFMANY 
COW/?5 FOR MY 8/I<THI?AY, M/55'? lA/lUI?
I 


Quote of the Day 
"If you pile up enough to­morrows, you'll find that 
you have  collected  nothing  
but  a lot of empty  yester­ 
days."  

The Music Man 


Editorial Board Operations Board


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark McLaughlin
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele
the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Ms Manager ...................... Laura Stanton
posstble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space ts available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 


page 10 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1987 

~ .. 
COTTON BOWL
:a. 
Texas A&M 35, Notre Dame 1 0 

Notre Dame 7 3 0 0 -10 Texas A&M 3 15 7 10 -35 
Scoring NO -Brown 1 pass from Andryslak (Gradel kick) A&M -Slater 26 field goal NO · Gradel 36 field goal A&M -Thompson 24 pass from Lewis (Slater kick) A&M · Horton 2 run (Hartley 3 run) A&M -Richardson 1 run (Slater kick) A&M -Slater 25 field goal A&M -Richardson 8 run (Slater kick) 
NO A&lot First downs 16 24 Rushing anempts 36 59 
Net Yards Rushing 74 294 Net Yards Passing 203 116 Passes comp-aHemptad 15-28 8-17 Had lnterceptad 0 2 Total Net Yards 277 410 Fumbles-lost 2-2 1·1 Penalties-yards 6-64 6-55 Punts-average 5-31.4 4_.2.2 fndlvfduaf lHdera 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Johnson 8-20; Andrysiak 11-15; Green 5-14; Banks 5-9; Graham 2-9; Brooks 3-7; Rice 1-3. Texas A&M: Richardson 13-96; Woodside 17-73; Gurley 15-60; Lewis 7-52; Horton 5-13. 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Andryalak 15-25-1, 203; 
Rice o-3-1, o. Texas A&M: Pavlas 5-7-o, 77; Lewis 1-1-o, 24; Rich­ardson 2-9-o, 15. 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Brown 6-105; Ward 2-37; Heck 3-28; Green 1-24; Waners 1·10; Jeffer­son 1-7; Banks 1-(-8). Texas A&M: Oliver 1-33; Thompson 1-24; Woodside 2-22; Harris 1-19; Morgan 1-16; Lewis 1-6; Waddle 1-(-4). 
AHendance -73,006 

Andrysiak comes out throwing 
By MARTY STRASEN the Irish to a touchdown on the ception in the endzone to a poor Assistant Sports Editor game's opening drive, and decision on his part. completed five consecutive "The play was supposed to 
DALLAS -Terry Andrysiak passes ·before misfiring. go to the tight end side, but I was the last person to think that Andrysiak finished with 203 rolled out to the split end side," moving the Notre Dame of­passing yards, connecting on he explained. "Then, by the fense after a three-month ab­15-of-25 with one touchdown time I turned back to the tight sence would be easy. and one interception. end side of the field, he 
But it was, until the senior "I wasn't sure what would <intended receiver Andy Heck) quarterback's second-quarter happen (after the Pittsburgh was covered. 

The Observer I Jim Carroll 


Brown, others unhurt after auto accident 
n.~Notrw Dame office, located on the thln:l floor of Lafortune Stu­dent c.m.r, ~~CC~~Pta clualfled edweftlltng from 10 L"'-until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtct.r. The~ Saint ~offk:e, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•, ~~CC~~Pta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. unlll3 p.m., Monday through Frtct.r. Deadline tor next-Giy clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat 
be pn!plld, either In penKJn Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 centa per five c:har.:twa per day. 





Classifieds 
DID ANYBODY STEP ON. DANCE ON, ROOMATE NEEDED! NOTRE DAME A Classic 72VW Bug-N~w motor&battery­Jim, Carole and Maggie are 2111 KICK, OR POSSIBLY FIND A PAIR OF APTS. $125 MO. QUIETI PLEASE CON­
$600 or btl.232-9709 I know it was a miserable X-Mas. But,NOTICES can we go to a movie or dinner? Maybe
GOLD RIMMED GLASSES AT TACT SAM DEPIZZOL AT 271-0804 UNCLE'S, WEDNESDAY NIGHT? Ia It True You Can Buy Jaepa lor $44 talk to each other when It rains? Got nothing to do on TueSday or PATRICK-1599 through the U.S. government? Get the B Thursday afternoons?
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 

facta today! Call 1-312·742-1142 Ext. Work lor the Obaerver aa a Day Editor
CALL CHRIS 234-8997 

rOUND: Thick gold necklace In Declo WANTED 7316. Sitting home watching the soape on Mon­Faculty Hall lobby on Wadnesday, Jan­day or Wadnesday afternoons?
................................................................ 
uary 13th. Call Tad at 2367 to claim. Welcome Back Brian Work lor tha Obaervar aa a typlat. NEED A RIDE TO HOUSTON OR DAL· Hope you like the pix Contact Jim Winkler at 239-7471 TYPING LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT· LAS, OR ANYWHERE CLOSE BY OVER TICKETS 
I still care 
277-8131 or 237-1949 lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE BREAK. CALL PATII £2966. 
FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE Airplane Ticket to San Francisco: leaves WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO CARRIE: We are glad to have you back. 
12116: call 3301. TIMHIRING! Govamment joba -your area.
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 

114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY ............................................................... Thanks for puHing up with all of us and All of us mlssad you 1111 Look toward to
$15,ooo-$88,000. Call (602) 838-8885,
277·1051 DAY. TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I our autograph requests during finals a fun samester. Welcome backlit Love,
Ext. 6282.

REALLY NEEDIIII week. The Gang
PERSONALS
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 

DRIVERS NEEDED. START AT $3.75. Pet Cooke: 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. INSURANCE & BONUS PLAN. PART A man who makes a mean cup of coffee. PAT CHARLEBOIS TIME OR FULL TIME, EVENING (MY FAVORITE B.S.)
KIM YURATOVAC: TYPING AVAILABLE You didn't think I'd forget your air mail
HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON AT GOD­CONGRATIJLATIONS ON 217-4012 personals, did you?

FOR RENT 

FATHER PIZZA, 52920 U.S. 31 N. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, YOUR GRADUATIONII• -JR CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE GOOD LUCKI Roommate(s) WANTED, female non­
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. smokers at Notre Dame Apts,leave mes­sage for Caroline at 288-9103 Earn up to $5,1100 thla achool yaar

FOR SALE 
managing on-campua marketing pro­NEED two (2) student tickets for DePaul

I LOST/FOUND I 

2 BEDRM HOME FOR RENT ON NO g....,a lor top national companlea. blowout. Call Pat x1155. TRISH. 
AVE, 2 BATHS, 2 BLOCKS FROM 1977 TOYOTA CELICA AUTO. GOOD Flexible houra. Muat be a jr., ar., or Black, spike-heeled boola. Found: baaketbell. CaN Mark at X1400. OII.MPUS. AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY CONDITION. GREAT COLLEGE CAR. g.-1. atudanl Call Kalla or Dee et 1-Apartment for rent at Campus Vlewl For Hmmm. If you can identify "· Wa yours. 272-8308, 232·1411 ASKING $1500 after 6 pm. 277-9042 1100-5112-2121. info call Dianna at 283-2678 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
DALLAS -Surprisingly, the hardest hit Irish Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown took in Dallas didn't occur in the Jan. 1 35-10 Cotton Bowl loss to Texas A&M. The hardest hit he took was on Dec. 29, 1987. 
Mter attending a Dallas Mavericks game, Brown was returning when he was in­volved in an automobile acci­dent. 
According to Brown, he and a friend, Debbie Young, left the game near the end of the third quarter. He was driving through an intersection when another car ran a red light and struck the 1987 Grand Am that Brown was driving. 
"I was driving on Field Street getting ready to cross Main when the auto accident happened," Brown said the fol­lowing day. "If I hadn't seen the other car it would have hit our car around the door, and that might have been the end of it for me this week. 
"I was wearing my seat belt, and it was the first time I had been hit that hard all year, on or off the field." 
The driver of the other car was identified as Kristi Coker, a 17-year-old student at Dallas' Woodrow Wilson High, which, ironically, is Brown's alma mater. Brown, who wrote a daily column for the Dallas Morning News, said that when Coker realized who she had hit, she said that she would prob­ably be kicked out of Woodrow. 
In the same column, Brown reported that the Notre Dame cheerleaders were in the car behind Coker. At first they checked on Coker's condition before realizing who she had hit. 
None of the people involved in the accicent were injured. 
interception inspired Texas A&M and contributed to a 35-10 Aggie victory in the Cotton Bowl on New Year's Day. 
"As far as passing is con­cerned, I thought everything was still there," said Andrysiak, who rebounded from a broken collarbone suf­fered in the fourth game of the season to start in Dallas. "I still had confidence that we could move the ball. 
"I thought the passing game would open up the run a little bit more, but it didn't. We weren't hitting the holes fast enough." 
The Notre Dame rushing at­tack, which gained 252.3 yards per game during the regular season, its best average since 1974, was dismal against the Aggies. But while the backs were missing the holes and picking up just 74 yards, Andrysiak was hitting the receivers consistently. 
The senior came out and led game),'' Andrysiak said of the game in which everyone wrote him off for the remainder of the season. "I hoped to come back, but it was a longshot at that point." 
But Andrysiak, who is apply­ing to return to Notre Dame for a fifth year, began practicing with the team just before Christmas and took hits for the first time on Dec. 26. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz liked what he saw and named Andrysiak the starter in place of sophomore Tony Rice, who called the signals for most of the year. Holtz said both Rice and Andrysiak would see time, but Rice did not take the field until the fourth quarter. 
"It felt fine physically," Andrysiak noted. "But I think I was a bit rusty in some of the 
decision-making  and  in  
reading coverages."  
Andrysiak  attributed  Alex  
Morris'  second-quarter  inter­ 


"I should have run it myself orthrownitaway. That's some­thing that the quarterback has to take responsibility for, and I shouldn't have thrown it up for grabs." 
The Aggies took the ball 80 yards and scored to tie the game, 10-10. They then capi­talized on a Braxston Banks fumble on the next Irish play from scrimmage and took an 18-10 halftime lead. 
What started out as easy turned impossible for the Irish after that. 
"It was easy," Andrysiak said of Notre Dame's start. "And it should have been easy the whole game. But we let them back in it, and we let them control the momentum. Every­thing fell apart on us." 
Andrysiak expects to hear from Notre Dame's academic administrators in the coming months concerning his request to return to the University next year. 

Accent 
Thursday, January 14, 1987 page 9 

Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. An ostrich egg is only a shell to Don Ulrich, but give him time and he'll turn it into a piece ofart. The projects he has hatched so far include a piece commemorating the Statue of Liberty, complete with doors that open to reveal a min­iature Lady Liberty inside the egg. Urlich crafted another ofthe grapefruit-size eggs for the an­niversary of the U.S. Constitu­tion, and a third has a working rhinestone-studded clock. 
Ulrich, a music store owner, piano tuner and former tool and die maker, decorates his pieces elaborately with gems and scrol­lwork. and the doors open to reveal the lighted displays in­side. The eggs are mounted on elegant metal holders which in turn rest on hand-carved wooden stands. 
· "It took me over two years to build that first one (the clock)," said Ulrich, whose inspiration to use the shells came from the work of Peter Carl Faberge, a Russian goldsmith and jeweler famous for the Easter eggs he crafted for Czars Alexander III and Nicholas II. "I just started out with a patriotic theme. I knew that the anniversary ofthe Statue ofLiberty was coming up and the (anniversary of) the Constitution, and I thought It would make a good series of eggs." 
Ulrich, 59, buys the empty shells from another hobbiest. who also gave him tips on where to buy such materials for the in­terior lighting. which came from a model railroad supplier. Ulrich has been interested in lapidary, the art ofcutting gems, for years and said others involved in the hobby had also branched into egg crafts. Although Ulrich has not attempted to sell his crea­tions, he is interested in showing them. 
"We call it lapid-eggery to get 
the idea of the egg into it," Ulrich 
said, adding that each element 
of the project presents its own 
Calvin and Hobbes 
special difficulties. "The hardest part is not decorating the eggs. I carve a wooden stand, and the wooden stand takes more time than decorating." 
According to Ulrich, his most difficult design was a clock because he had to carefully cut out the shell's midsection, affix stones to it to form Roman numerals and mount it on a timekeeping mechanism so that it would rotate at the proper speed around the egg's long axis. 
"The hardest part was figuring out how to mount an eight-day clock movement in an egg with­out breaking (the egg)," he said. "Once I had the clock movement I knew the parameters I had. You can suspend it or mount it rigidly on the bottom. After a few tries I figured that suspending it was the better of the two choices." 
One setback happened when~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Uirich finished a precision cut on the shell for the clock egg shortly before midnight. Ulrich was care­fully lifting a cut section about the shape and size of a large bracelet when it fell from his hands, shattering on the con­
crete  floor  of  his  basement  
workshop.  
"Needless  to  say,  that  was  

frustrating." he said. "But I just picked up the pieces, set them aside and went to bed. You can't scream and cry when that hap­pens, you just have to go on." Ulrich built a wooden form to match the exact dimensions of the broken section and carefully glued the pieces back together. 
There is no substitute for pa­tience in such detail work, even without setbacks, but the rewards are familiar to all hob­byists. "It's relaxing in that you concentrate totally on what you're doing." said Ulrich. "This means that you relax everything else and let go. It so monopolizes your mind that you kind of let everything else just idle. It relieves the stress of everyday living." 
Family enjoys home 
on airport runway 
Associated Press 
MIAMI If you want to corre­spond with the Jesse Wilcox fam­ily, don't write to their street ad­dress: 6620 NW 36th St. Miami, FL .3.3266 they'll never get it. 
That's because no one wants to believe the Wilcoxes live at Miami International Airport. 
"You're kidding." said an em­ployee at the airport administra­tion offices when told a family lives off one of the main run­ways. 
"They're going to call you a liar when you tell people we live here," advised Wilcox, who has resided in the only house on the airport for four years. "People who live only three blocks from here say they've never seen the house." 
However, the one-story, two­bedroom cement-block house with a children's swing set out front is clearly visible from the perimeter road on the north edge of the airfield. 
Built on airport property, it is part of the U.S. department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Wilcox is an animal caretaker for USDA. responsible for animals in quarantine before they are shipped by plane to domestic and foreign ports. 
When Wilcox is asked where he lives, he says, "Wilcox Field," the seldom-used dual name of Miami International Airport. 
The man whose name this huge airfield honors was J. Mark Wilcox, a Florida congressman who, in the early 1930s, cam­paigned for the United States to build an air force. 
For 11 years, J. Mark Wilcox served as an attorney for the port authority here and several months after he died Feb. 4, 1956, the Dade County Commis­sion decided to name the airport after him. 
Coincidentally, both Wilcoxes were born in Georgia., J. Mark Wilcox, a white man, was from Willacoochee while Jesse Wilcox, a black man, was born in Jack­sonville, Ga. 
"Every year I go through the same thing. The bus drivers say they can't find the house or say it isn't here." Mrs. Wilcox said. 
The continuous noise of departing and arriving aircraft goes unnoticed by the family-­except the Concorde, a needle­nosed supersonicjetoperated by British Airways. 
"You can set your watch by it­-Wednesday, Friday and Sunday it takes off at 10:45 a.m.," said Mrs. Wilcox. 

"We're not related," Jesse Wil­cox said with a smile. For Mrs. Wilcox, life beside the airport runways is not much different from living elsewhere. She works as a school crossing guard and cafeteria monitor for the Miami Springs school system. 
Daughters Lavonne, 15, and Chandra, 10, ride a school bus during the week but, each new term. that creates a problem. 
"I hear the planes, but-it doesn't bother me," added Wil­cox, 46. "Even the kids sleep with the windows up." 
Enclosed by chain-link fence topped with barbed wire, the Wil­cox home is not bothered by salesmen or peddlers. 
"I enjoy the privacy," said Wil­cox. "Nobody knocks at my door, but I can't get a newspaper delivered here." 
Sit-com 'Full House' still 
has room for improvement 
JOE BUCOLO accent writer 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a new feature reviewing television series ranging from sit-coms to dramas to dramedies. 
F 
ull House:" usually a strong. winning hand in a card game, this new ABC sit­com lacks some of the Impact with which the name is usually associated. Mediocre ratings and a poor time slot give ABC more than one reason to fold with this hand; however, the network Intends to keep its "Full House" in the Prime Time gamble. 
The show, which airs Fridays at 8:00 p.m. on channel 28, is a new, somewhat unoriginal comedy centered around, what 
BHI Watterson 

else, a single-parent house­hold. Danny Tanner, a TV sportscaster played by Bob Saget, just lost his wife. Since three girls and a job are diffi­cult to handle alone, Danny invites his brother-in-law J.esse (John Stamos) and his friend Joey (David Coulier) to live with him. Great solution or big mis­
take? Jesse is into rock music and, of course, women, while Joey is an aspiring comedian. 
In exchange for room and 
board, these two misfits have 
to take care of the girls while 
Danny works. 
The girls are "cute." (Sorry, it's really the only word to describe them.) D.J. (Candace Cameron) is I 0 and has to cope with all those traumatic grade school problems, which mainly involve of boys and younger sisters. ·Stephanie (Jodi Sweetin) is five and just started kindergarten which pro­vides for at least one very funny episode. Michelle is the youngest a mature 9 months old. 
At first, the show's episodes are similar to half hour ex­cerpts from "Three Men and a Baby'' and "Baby Boom." They seem like another of Holly­wood's recent attempts to "cash in" on cute little girls. 
While scenes involving Joey and Jesse trying to take care of Michelle are funny, how many diaper changing scenes can a person sit through? 
Recently, however, the show seems to be changing. Some creative plots and improved writing help the viewer to for­get just how ridiculous the show's premise is. The show does have one superb charac­teristic: a concentration on the family. The show constantly presents conflicts between the sisters, who, in the end, realize nothing is as special as their love for one another. The girls are each others' best friends and learn to love and help one another. This aspect of the show is especially rewarding since a large portion of the show's audience is young. 
With a shaky past hidden behind its poker face, "Full House," viewers hope, will con­tinue to become a more believ­able, well-received show. The characters of Danny and Joey need to be further developed, especially since Jesse seems to be most the involved in storylines, and the girls need ... to establish distinct identities. If the show can improve on its weak points, it could be a hit. If not this is one gamble In which a "Full House" will lose. 



Thursday, January 14, 1987 
Traditions battle at Cotton Bowl 
The Observer page 11 

With Louis Cheek (79) and the rest of the offen· slve line doing a number on the Irish defense (right), Texas A&M's of· tense was able to move the ball. Above, quarter­back Bucky Richardson 
(7) pitches to running back Darren Lewis (25). 
.. 

controlled the line of scrim­mage and opened the holes. All the running backs had to do was run hard and hit the holes. The line really took control when we needed it early in the third quarter." 
Sherrill, whose squad finished at 10-2, said afterward that this game should give the Aggies some respect. 
"We will be a Top 10 fotball 
Towel 
continued from page 16 
know it was him when he came 
over my back." 
Sherrill was outraged at the 15-yard penalty handed to Brown, who left the field shortly afterwards with an icepack on his lower back. Sherrill said Brown should have been ejected from the game. 
"It was inexcusable," Sher­rill said. {.!If it would have been team, but this team has been awesome the last three seasons," Sherril said. "Our two quarterbacks next year will give us a dimension a lot of teams don't have. With an­other spring Bucky Richardson can turn into an outstanding thrower. 



"I thought we could domi­nate the line of scrimmage. Before the game, of course, I 
one of my players, he would have been on the sidelines." 
But when faced with those comments and some pressing questions from the media, Brown refused to cry on the towel for what he did to recover it. 
"The way I went about it probably wasn't the right way," Brown noted, "but it was my towel and he didn't have any right to take it. I didn't in­tend to tackle him. But when I grabbed him that's what hap­pened." 
Referee Dick Burleson also 
1ne uoserver 1 J1m ~.;arrou 

wasn"l going to say that, but besides being a Jittle quicker, we have a lot of strength up there." 
As for Holtz, it was another disappointing afternoon as the Irish ended the season with a three-game losing skid to finish at 8-4. 
"I am badly disappointed and upset, but at nobody but myself," Holtz said. 
defended his call on the play. 
"It was not a striking foul or a flagrant foul," Burleson said. "There are certain fouls that require automatic disqualifica­tion, and that was not one of them." 
Brown had a good day before the incident for which the 52nd Cotton Bowl Classic will prob­ably always be remembered. 
He caught six passes for 105 yards and a touchdown, all in the first half, and returned six kicks and one punt for a total of 133 yards in the 35-10 Aggie rout. 
BEER 

HAMMES (24 CANS) ................. $7.99 HAMMES LIGHT (24 CANS) ........... $5.99 MILLER LITE (24 CANS) ............ $5.99 MILLER (24 CANS) ................. $7.99 OLYMPIA (24 CANS) ................ $5.89 MEISTER BRAU (24 CANS) ........... $4.99 BUDWEISER (24 CANS) .............. $8.57 BUDLIGHT (24 CANS) ............... $8.57 
LIQUOR 

McCORMICK VODKA (1.75L) .......... $7.99 KLESSER'S (1.75L) ............... $10.49 BRUGAL RUM (1.75L) ............... $9.99 GIRO TEQUILLA (1.75L) ........... $10.99 WALKER'S CANADIAN (1.75L) ........ $9.99 CANADIAN AGE (LITER) ............. $5.99 MOHAWK GIN (LITER) ............... $5.99 
WALKER'S PEACH SCHNAPPS (1.75L).$10.99 KING WILLIAMS SCOTCH (LITER) ..... $7.99 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
DALLAS-Like the battle on the field, Irish and Aggie fans squared off in the stands in a show of support for their teams. 
Because the game was played in Texas, Irish faithful shaking yellow pom-poms were outnumbered by crimson-clad fans waving towels -in support of the 12th Man. Traditions also clashed, as an A&M pregame ritual involving players and fans outlasted Notre Dame's fight song by at least 10 minutes. 
Irish fans got a chance to show their spirit in the first quarter as their team took a 10-3 lead. But as the game dragged on, and the Notre· Dame fans muttered to them­selves "Alright, here we go" over and over, the Aggie fans continued to wave towels and cheer on cue. 
While the fans were basically segregated in the stands, a few fans decked out in Notre Dame sweatshirts and hats could be spotted sprinkled among the A&M fans. In section three, for example, a subway alumnus was surrounded by Aggie faith­fuls. 
"I knew I was sitting in the A&M bleachers,'' said Mike Cabet of Plano, Texas. "But that's one thing you have to put up with when you come to the Cotton Bowl." 
Cotton 
continued from page 16 
boom we had three mistakes in a row," said Holtz. 'IWe were driving and had a pass inter­cepted in the end zone. Then they came back with the halfback option pass and scored on us. The next thing that happened was the screen pass that was called a fumble. "We were to be ahead 17-3 
and in a two-minute span, 
they're ahead 18-10." 
The Aggies opened the second half with a drive right to the goal line, but then th~ turnover plague hit them. Matt Gurley dove for the endzone, but Wes Pritchett met him at the two and jarred the ball loo~e. Brandy Wells recovered for the Irish in the endzone. 
Fortunately for A&M, the Irish were still in a generous mood. On Notre Dame's first play following, Mark Green 
It didn't take long for this Irish faithful to rub the Aggie fans the wrong way. 
"It's going to be pretty sad to see the 12th Man not even show up today," Cabet asserted. 
"Tim Brown's gonna get wasted as soon as he touches that ball," responded Texas A&M freshman Todd Lathan, who was seated right behind Cabet. 
"Take our word," added 
Tom Moore, another A&M 
freshman, in his thick Texas 
drawl, "the 12th Man is gonna 
stomp him." 
There is apparently a special relationship between the Aggie fans and the 12th Man. For the benefit of those who don't un­derstand this tradition, Lathan explained what it takes to be a 12th Man. 
"It takes a sixth sense which 
is called nothing," he said. 
"And something else called no 
brains." 

"They're crazy!" added his 
sidekick Moore. 
Like all the A&M fans, Lat­
han was not intimidated by the 
Irish football team. 
"It's gonna be hard, but A&M 
is gonna stomp 'em." 
"Naw, A&M's gonna win," 
added Moore once again. 
"Ain't no doubt about it." 
As it turned out, the game did 
nothing to damage their confi­
dence, and not even Tim Brown 
could keep them from waving 
their towels. 
was met by Leon Cole and fumbled the ball away to Dana Batiste. Once again, the Aggies pounded the ball into the endzone, ths time on a Bucky Richardson (who split time with Pavlas at quarterback) sneak which increased the Aggie lead tp 15 at 25-10. 
A field goal and a Richardson 8-yard scamper (following an interception of Tony Rice) rounded out the scoring. 
All afternoon the Aggies pounded the Irish up front, defensively and offensively. A&M banged out 294 rushing yards (96 by Richardson) while holding Notre Dam~ to 74 rush­ing yards of its own. 
"Before the first snap, (guard) Jery Fontenot patted me on the butt and said let's go for it," said Aggie guard Matt McCall. "That helped me. The entire offensive line is a close knit group." 
"The offensive line did a great job," Gurley said. "They 


------------------CALL fOR SYR PARTifS 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1987 

Upset loss to Lafayette tarnishes NO's break action 

By RICK RIETBROCK and BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editors 
MILWAUKEE-Notre Dame 
ended its road swing last Sat­
urday with a Iaugher over fel­
low Great Independent Mar­
quette, 62-44. 
The Irish and Warriors 
crawled out of the starting 
blocks, with the Warriors hold­
ing a 2-1 after five minutes of 
play. Notre Dame slowly 
heated up from the field, but 
Marquette never did. The Irish 
put the game away early in 
building a 36-12 halftime lead. 
Marquette hit just five shots in 20 attempts, while the Irish connected on 15-of-26 (58 per­cent). 
"We wanted to stop their penetration," said Marquette coach Bob Dukiet. "They took the shots we wanted them to take, and they hit them." 
In the second half, the Irish kept the lead above 20 points until the two-minute mark. 
Marquette, starting three freshmen, shot 32 percent for the game prompting the Mil­waukee Arena fans to douse the team with boos, something that disturbed Phelps. 
"They've got some good young talent, but it's hard to pull together when the people in the seats give up on you," Phelps said. "These aren't professionals. College athletes don't deserve booing." 

David Rivers led the Irish with 17 points and Mark Steven­son added 11, all in the first half. Freshman forward Trevor Powell led Marquette with 10. 
Lafayette 83, NO 68 

Lafayette, whose appear­ance on the schedule undoubt­edly drew snickers from Irish fans, shocked the Irish with a sound 15-point win over Notre Dame at Allan P. Kirby Field House Jan. 4. 
After the Leopards spotted the Irish a 10-7 lead, Lafayette went on an 11-2 run and never trailed again, though the game stayed tight throughout the first half. A Mark Stevenson dunk brought the Irish within one point at 23-22 with 6:54 left 
in the half, but Otis Ellis hit • three baskets to help the Leopards keep the upper hand. 
In the second half, the Leopards slowly pulled away. Notre Dame's comeback hopes were dashed by its poor shoot­ing (10-for-34) and Lafayette's ability to hit free throws (35­for-42). The Irish never got closer than eight in the late stages of the game. 
Ellis led Lafayette with 35 points (12-for-14 from the field) and 10 rebounds. Rivers led the Irish with 31 and Stevenson added 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
ND 68, LaSalle 59 

Notre Dame and LaSalle fought it out all night in the Palestra Jan. 2, and the Irish were still standing at the end. 
The Irish never trailed in the game, but also led by no more than six until LaSalle was forced to foul in the waning mo­ments. 
Sean Connor gave the Irish a six-point lead at 54-48 with a tip­in with 7:44 to go, but LaSalle closed it to two when Lionel Simmons hit two free throws. David Rivers hit a jump shot, but Simmons answered with a layup. 
Mark Stevenson hit a rebound shot. to give the Irish a 58-54 lead with 3: 07 to play, but LaSalle pulled to within one when Rich Tarr canned a 3­pointer. The Irish got jumpers from Stevenson and Connor to pull ahead by five with 53 seconds left. LaSalle could not score, other than a layup by Simmons, and the Irish hit six of eight free throws to ice the game. 
Stevenson matched a career­high with 23 points and added 10 rebounds, and Rivers had 22, while Simmons led LaSalle with 26. 
NO 64, St. Bonaventure 49 
Notre Dame fought off a pesky St. Bonaventure club to claim 64-49 win Dec. 30. 
The Irish broke away from a 19-19 tie by outscoring the Bonnies 15-5 in the last 7: 36 of the first half to take a 34-25 halftime edge. 
St. Bonaventure would not give up in the second half. With 
9:06 remaining in the game, a Patrick Allen jumper pulled the Bonnies to withing 46-45. Gary Voce hit two shots to keep the Irish ahead and a Sean Con­nor 3-pointer put the Irish up by six with 6:26 remaining. St. Bonaventure never got closer. 
NO 91, St. Joseph's 70 
The Irish overcame a fiesty St. Joseph's (Ind.) team and a 36-26 first-half deficit to to defeat the Pumas on December 28 at the Joyce ACC. 
Senior guard David Rivers exploded for 34 points to pace Notre Dame, which tied the game 44-44 at the half and proceeded to open up a 67-54 lead midway through the second half. Rivers and sopho­more Scott Paddock, who added a career-high 13 points, both pulled down five rebounds as the Irish controlled the de­fensive boards and harassed St. Joseph's shooters to keep the Pumas off-guard in the 


.-se•c•ollilnllllllldllilhiiia•lf•.________________...;;;;;;;;;;;. 
NO 88, Valparaiso 49 
Notre Dame took control of Valpo early and never let up, running away with its fourth win of the season in a Decem­ber 19 game at the Joyce ACC. While Valparaiso tried to con­trol the ball to keep the Irish offense from running away with the game, Notre Dame controlled the score and the boards, outrebounding the visitors 43-18. 
DePaul 73, NO 69 
Despite holding a six-poir}t lead with only 90 seconds left in regulation, the Irish fell to DePaul in overtime on Decem­ber 12 at the Rosemont Horizon. 
The teams traded leads seven times during the game, but Notre Dame held the lead through most of the second half before the Blue Demons rallied to tie the score at the end of regulation. With the Irish ahead 63-57, DePaul scored six straight points thanks to a full­court, trapping defense to tie the game. Then sophomore Keith Robinson had two free­throw attempts to put Notre Dame on top with three seconds left in regulation, but missed both to send the game to over­time. 

Senior Kevin Edwards scored seven of the Blue Demons' nine points in over­time to give DePaul an early lead. The Irish tied the game at 67 with two minutes remain­ing, but Edwards combined with senior point guard Rod Strickland to put the game away and ice the win for the home team. 
Strickland finished with 22 
points and nine assists, while Edwards added 17 points to lead the Blue Demons. David Rivers led all scorers with 26 points, playing all 45 minutes of the game. 
._....,.~""~•• IIICS 
288-0500 
Printed T-Shirts 
Jackets, sweats, hats, etc. with your club, sorority or dorm name. 
Call 288_
0500. 


Yale 
continued from page 16 
Stevenson returned in the second half to play for three minutes, and should start in Saturday's game with DePaul. Senior center Gary Voce, who sprained his right ankle against Marquette last Satur­day, and sophomore guard Joe Fredrick, who is suffering freom tendenitis in the knee, did not play in last night's game. Both should be available Saturday. 
Sophomore Scott Paddock, filling in for Voce at centP.~ .• came alive in the second half to score 13 points as the Irish kept Yale from staging a late comeback. Paddock, who did not attempt a shot in the first half, finished 6-of-6 from the field and pulled down a team­high 10 rebounds. 
"Paddock played very physi­cal tonight," said Phelps. "I thought he was an enforcer in­side. He's up there dunking the ball. I don't want him shooting layups. Dunk it. You can't lay it up against guys like (DePaul's Stanley) Brundy." 


, 
""" t~' 

Sltf ~ 
KAPLAN! 
STA~Jl.FY H KAPlANfOUCATIONAl CENTER LTD 
DON"T COMPETE WITH A KAPlAN STUDENT--BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. SOtJth Bend, IN 46637 Phone 219/272-413~ 
--------------~-----­
Thursday, January 14, 1987 
The Observer 
page 13 

Irish hockey meets Cadets after four easy wins 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Having managed four easy wins over vastly inferior com­petition during the last month, the Notre Dame hockey team enters the hardest part of its schedule this weekend with two road games at Army. 
Irish coach Ric Schafer knows the Cadets will provide much stronger opposition than Dayton or Arizona. 'fhe Irish whipped Dayton, 13-3 and 11-1, on Dec. 11-12, and tamed the Wildcats, 9-5 and 10-0, on Jan. 8-9. Notre Dame collides with Army on Friday and Saturday night at 7:30p.m. 
"Army's one of the better teams on our schedule," said Schafer. "They're not a power­house in the East Coast, but they're respected. They've beaten some e:ood teams. 
dent Union Board presents: a lecture by THE HONORABLE SHIRLEY CHISHOLM "PROTEST, ORDER, AND JUSTICE" 
Washington Hall Tuesday, January 19 8:00p.m. Tickets $2.00 ­available at The Cellar 

"We're gofug to be chal­lenged a whole lot the next four weekends with Army, then North Dakota State, Kent State and Air Force coming in." 
The Cadets come into the weekend with a deceiving 5-9-2 record. As a member of the ECAC (Eastern College Ath­letic Conference), Army regu­larly faces national powers in conference foes Harvard and Cornell, and have a perfect 4-0 record against non-conference opponents. The Irish have faced Army four times in the last two years, and the Cadets hold a 3-1 advantage. 
Notre Dame also will have to adjust to Army's larger ice rink. While the Irish regularly play on the JACC's 200-by-85 di­mensions, Army plays its home games on an Olympic-sized 210­by-100 rink at West Point, N.Y. 
"Army's probably on a par with Dearborn," said Schafer. Notre Dame has split two games this season with confer­ence rival Michigan-Dearborn, the current leaders of the American Collegiate Hockey Association. 
The Irish prepared for this weekend's games by returning from winter break a week early and playing the University of Arizona last weekend. Notre Dame had no trouble winning twice against the Wildcats, as the Irish raised their record to 13-2-2. 
"We pla7ed well, and we were obviously the better 
team," said Schafer. "We exams, the Irish had two home needed a week to. get back to-games with Dayton. The games gether and practice and play proved to be the two easiest as a team. To separate and try tests the Notre Dame hockey to pick up where you left off is players had all week. Notre 
hard." 

The castle and Knights 

• 
Minutes from campus 

• 
Discounts to Students & Faculty 

• 
$4.00 off a Helrcut end HeirDesign 

• 
$5.00 off a P~rm or Color Savlc~ 


You Have Chosen a First Class 
campus, wny Not Choose a First Class Hair Salon with a Touch of Royalty WE SPECIALIZE IN STYLES AND FAOS 
• Hair • Skin • Nalls • Tanning 
272-0312 

STATE RD. 23/TERRACE LANE 
In the second game, soph­more goalie Lance Madson helped the Irish record their first shutout in 128 games, a 10­0 rout of the Wildcats. 
"We'd set a goal to play sound defensive hockey, and we held them," said Schafer. "We knew we'd score goals, and we didn't want to get care­less." 
In the first game, another Irish feast, the Wildcats at least managed to hold Notre Dame to under 10 goals. The 9-5 victory was the only time in the last four games that the Irish were held to under 10 
goals. On the weekend before final 
Dame showed it had no busi­ness competing with Dayton's team, currently on club status, as the Irish waxed the Flyers, 13-3 and 11-1. In the 13-3 win, South Bend native and St . Joseph's High School graduate Chris Kleva pulled a ha~ trick for Notre Dame. 
Schafer was particularly im­pressed with the play of the line that features Matt Hanzel, Brian Montgomery and Tim Kuehl in the last four games. 
"They've really clicked and put together some impressive passing plays," said Schafer. "They're really coming on." 

page 14 The Observer 
Irish face N. Illinois tonight 
r­
, I 
I 
I I 
r 
r By THERESA KELLY
I 
Sports Writer 
I 
Before tonight's game against Northern Illinois, theI last time the Notre Dame wo­
I 
men's basketball team had the home court advantage was Dec. 19, when it beat Val­paraiso. Since then, the team took to the road over break, winning two of five games and finishing second in the Wildcat Classic. 
"We're glad to be home," said Head Coach Muffet McGraw, "real glad to be home." 
ND 93, Valpo 60 

Way back on Dec. 19, the Irish defense held Valparaiso to a .278 shooting clip while the offense tallied its second high­est point total of the season to win 93-60. 
Indiana 62, ND 59 

The Irish faced the Indiana Hoosiers on Dec. 21. After building up a 39-24 halftime lead, Notre Dame's game fell apart while the Hoosiers got theirs together to come from behind and win 62-59. Forward Heidi Bunek scored 16 points and brought down 11 rebounds to lead the Irish against a tough 
Big 10 opponent. 
ND 75, Fairfield 62 Villanova 56, ND 55 The next stop on the Notre Dame tour was the Wildcat Classic in Philadelphia. "I thought we should have won the Villanova tourna­ment," McGraw said. "We beat Fairfield and we were win­ning the whole game against Villanova and then we lost by one." Against Fairfield, 1 Bunek scored 24 points and had 12 rebounds, but that effort was overshadowed by Sandy Bot­ham's performance. The Irish center poured in 26 points and pulled down 17 rebounds, both team highs for the year. "Sandy and Heidi are both playing well," McGraw said. "They were both on the all­tournament team. Our inside game was really looking good." The inside game was still good against Villanova, but the Wildcats used a balanced scoring attack to defeat the 
Irish, 56-55 in the championship game. 
"(The Wildcats) played really well," sadi McGraw. "They really packed in the zone. We played well, too. We didn't turn the ball over, we took good shots; they just didn't drop. 
"We were down by one, we had the ball with nine seconds left, and we got a good shot, but the ball just rolled off the rim. We did what we wanted to do. We did everything but win." 
Virginia 79, ND 59 

The Irish road warriors con­tinued on to Charlottesville to take on Virginia, the sixth­ranked team in the country. Bunek and Botham again led Notre Dame in scoring and rebounding, but the Irish could not stop the talented Virginia team, which upped ·its record to 9-1 with the 79-59 victory. 
"They are and excellent team," praised McGraw. "They have five excellent ath­letes. They're very fast, and 

Sandy Botham Heidi Bunek 
they pressed us for forty rebounding (9 and 10), as the minutes. We turned the ball Irish outscored Miami 44-28 in over 30 times. Other than that, the second half to earn 83-68 
we played pretty well. We victory. played good defense, and we weren't that unhappy with the Finally, the Irish will returngame." 
home to the Joyce ACC tonight 
to play Northern Illinois in the 
ND 83, Miami 68 first of two home contests. 
The southern trip continued "They're very good," said as the Irish faced the Hur­McGraw. "They played Iowa, ricanes of Miami. As usual, the number-one team in the Bunek and Botham led the country, and they were down team in scoring (24 and 1'1 by three with 30 seconds to go. points, respectively) and They had a chance to win." 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS­
dll ' 
I

Ill Join BP America " at the start 
"1II of a new era. 

Exciting opportunities for career growth are developing ot 
BP America. We are seeking well qualified Engineers for 
major divisions of the company: Refining. Transportation, 
Marketing. ancj Chemicals. 
BP AMERICA was formed recently by the combination of 
t\vo famous and complementary firms... Standard Oil and 
BP North America. 
Standard Oil. founded by John D. Rockefeller in 1870. is recognized as an outstanding refiner and marketer as well as a major holder of petroleum reserves. British Petroleum. one of the most active oil producing companies in the North Sea, the Middle East and Alaska. is known as a great explorer and producer. Now. building on more than 100 years of experience, BP America is preparing for a new era of growth. 
We start from a sound base-$24 billion in assets. 43.((() people worldwide. and sales volume that ranks us 13th among American industrial companies. We are expanding activities in both oil and diversified businesses -chemicals. coal. minerals and precious metals. computer software. structural ceramics. carbon fibers. and more. 
We encourage students who are receiving a Bachelor's 
degree in CHEMICAL. MECHANICAL. CIVIL or ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING to discuss opportunities with us. We will be 
interviewing on campus soon -schedule an interview NOW 
with your placem€·nt office. If you are unable to meet with 
us on campus. send your resume to: University Relations; 
BP America; P. 0. Box 94694; Cleveland, OH 4410 l-4694. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
BPAMERICA 
a wholly owned subsidiary of British Petroleum Company p.l.c. 

Thursday, January 14, 1987 

Sports Briefs 
A WVFI sports staff meeting will be held Monday at 6:30p.m. at the station. All staff members and anyone interested in becoming a part of the staff must attend. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team improved its record to 4-4 with a 73-39 victory over Manchester College. Sophomore Julie Radke led the Belles with 23 points. -The Observer 
The varsity lacrosse team will have a meeting for anyone interested in trying out today at 4:30 p.m. in the JACC auditorium. -The Observer 
In college basketball Wednesday night, Pitt nipped Connecticut 61-58, Providence stunned Georgetown 78-74, Iowa State tripped Kansas 88-78, Georgia whipped Auburn 87-68, Florida State scalped Memphis State 92-85, LSU edged Tennessee 52-51, Florida defeated Mississippi State 55-45, and Vanderbilt toppled Mississippi 60-57. -Associated Press 
McGraw was pleased with the outcome of the trip and says the road games and tougher competition have helped the Irish, along with the fact that many players are really per­forming well. 
"The team is playing well to­gether," she said. "Sandy and Heidi are both playing well, Mary Gavin is doing well, too. 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy Ufe at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setUng is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount. 
•
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
• 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• 
lntercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced 
• 
gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 



Thursday, January 14, 1987 The Observer page 15 
*************************************************************************************** 
Campus · 
Thursday 7 p.m.: WVFI News Mandatory Scheduling Meeting, 120 O'Shaugnessy 7 p.m.: Basketball, SMC vs. Bethel College, Angela Athletic Facility. 7 p.m.: Presentation-Reception with Champion International for Business and Arts and Letters students, Alumni Room, Morris Room. 7 p.m. -10 p.m.: SMCND Auditions for "The Glass Menagerie," O'Laughlin Auditorium. For further information, call 284-4640, Department of Communica­tions and Theatre. 8 p.m.: Presentation-Reception with Continental Bank for MBA students, Notre 
Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
M A T H 
1 
0 
1 


A public service message from The Observer 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Grilled Cheese Sandwich Sweet & Sour Chicken 
Meatloaf Mosticolli 
Comics 
Bloom County 
YOIJR flii&I?IWT IINTI­fi/MilY f/?IWI?f/1{.. P05tn0N ta/Vt~ Me ONt.Y CWe' 
f?ECOI/1?5£. 
I 
/?ON'T 
{l() rr/ 

Bloom County 
T Mi!ST rM &ONNA 
MIT. /?0/T. 
I \ 
Saint Mary's Calzone Salisbury Steak with Gravy Potato Pancake Deli Bar 
* 

WINTERFEST '88 ******************** ~ 
* 

***************** ~ *********** Saturday, January 16 : LUAU -Stepan Center ~ 9 pm :: 
slip-n-slide music :: leis volleyball * 
Berke Breathed 
CllNCU TfU. MY C!f?CV/.11770N 5(Jf35Cf(ffnON. M/?5. CIIVf5H I 15 t/JWa?IN&
7Hti 6/XkYI. 
Berke Breathed 


* 
~ ******************** 
* 
~ ~ Friday, January 15 ! Skating at the J .A.C.C. ~ 10:30 pm-1:00am.
** -free rentals 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Flowering shrub 6 Wrestling milieu 
9 Egg on 13 Convex 
molding 14 Shredded 15 Aa 16 Mortise 
and­17 Merit 18 Supplements 19 NBA member 22 Sticky stuff 23 RSVP word 24 Bread 25 Sch. gp. 28 Mop 30 -Turner 32 Sculls 34 Turk. river 36 Jason's wife 40 Acts on 

Broadway 43 Mix-up 44 Chin. river 45 Theater seat 46 Ordinal suffix 48 Fleming and 
Smith 50 Legume 51 Donkey 54 Dove cry 56 Check 58 Be careful 62 Winged 63 Elfin being 64 Hackneyed 67 -avis 68 Caen's river 69 Metric unit 70 Dutch town 71 Inhabitants: 
suff. 72 Organic compound 
DOWN 1 Fate 2 Contraction 3 Anderson of 
TV 4 FoiWard 5 Buildings for 
short 



All f\lghts Reserved 
6 Distress 
sound 7 Tapestry 8 Bowling Item 9 Fish sauce 
10 Pastry man 11 Each 12 Deml-­14 Social 20 Indians 21 Tax. shrine 25 Kitchenware 26 Small pool 27 VIcinity 29 Irani religion 31 Wild duck 33 Ump's call 35 Emperor of 

Ethiopia 37 Plummet 38 Odds 39 Cruising 41 -treat 52 Caesar e.g. 59 Stuff 42 Baseball hits 53 -Zagora, 60 Sea bird 47 Old World bird Bulg. 61 Kernel 49 Calm down 55 Unique things 65 Golf peg 51 Hlp 57 Deserve 66 Stray 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

Suddenly, In the middle of the flock, the cook Is goosed. 

; -free hot chocolate & donuts tood dunk tank * 
* sponsored by SUB D.J. ~ 
*************************************************************************************** 
------·----------------------------~ 


Maley on a slam dunk with three seconds left In the first half. 





