As usual
jACCENT: Club Tuesday ... tonight 
Mostly sunny today. High 
around 60. Fair tonight with a 
low in the upper 30s. Partly 
cloudy Wednesday. High in
IVIEWPOINT: SMC election quirks 
the upper 50s. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 120 
TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 


Shultz to work on Afghanistan treaty with Soviet Union 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan on Monday directed Secretary of State George Shultz to go to Geneva to sign "historic accords" by which the United States and Soviet Union will guarantee a peace agreement dictating the removal of all Red Army troops from Afghanistan. 
Reagan called the pact a "triumph" for the U.S.-backed insurgents after a bloody, eight-year war with the Soviet­supported Kabul regime. He said the rebels "can count on our continued support." 
The rebels have rejected the peace pact and have vowed to continue fighting. Under a compromise with Moscow, the United States will continue sen­ding weapons to the rebels, while the Kremlin continues providing arms to the Marxist government. 
Reagan made the announce­ment in the sun-splashed Rose Garden before a ceremony to congratulate the mens' and womens' NCAA basketball champions. 
''This is the first time in the history of the Soviet Union that they have moved by aggression into another country and then had to withdraw," Shultz said later at a White House press briefing. 
The peace settlement, negotiated between Pakistan and Afghanistan under the aus­pices of the United Nations, is to be signed on Thursday. 
see SHULTZ, page 7 


Hijackers kill one more passenger 

Associated Press 
LARNACA, Cyprus --Arab hijackers on Monday killed a second hostage, tossed his bloody body from a Kuwaiti jet and threatened to kill the rest of the nearly 50 captives if the plane wasn't refueled. 
The gunmen said the dead man was a "Kuwaiti officer." He was the second of three Kuwaiti military men aboard the Kuwait Airways jet that the hijackers have slain during the weeklong ordeal. 
The hijackers have demanded that Kuwait release 17 pro-Iranian terrorists con­victed in 1984 for bombing the 
U.S. and French embassies in December 1983. 
Sources close to the negotia­tions said, however, that the hijackers on Monday demanded freedom only for the three men among the 17 who have been sentenced to death. 
Kuwait apparently rejected the modified demand. 
In Kuwait, Foreign Minister Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al­Sabah said his country is prepared to lose more hostages rather than give in to ter­rorism. 
"We will try our utmost to protect our dear ones aboard the plane, but we will not sur­render to any blackmail, even if we lose more of them," he told a news conference. 
There are 52 people aboard the Boeing 747, including three members of the Kuwaiti royal family, as well as the hijack­ers, who are masked by blue hoods fashioned from airline pillow cases and armed with grenades and handguns. 
Sabah said there are at least eight hijackers, all of them Arabs, carrying forged pas­sports. Four of the hijackers 
see HIJACK, page 3 

This mock delegate was one of approximately 350 participants in the 1988 Mock National Convention which began last night at Stepan Center. After lis­tening to South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan deliver 
The Observer I Todd Tucker 
the welcoming address, delegates heard debates 
from  student representatives of the various  cam­ 
paigns.  The  Qonvention  will  continue  each  night  
through Thursday. Stories below.  


Holy Cross J.C. selects president 
By SUSAN SHULL 
News Staff 
Yesterday Holy Cross Junior College announced the appoint­ment of Brother David Naples as the new president of the Col­lege. The announcement was made by William Shannon, president of the College's Board of Trustees, who called the appointment "an auspi­cious occasion and a great move forward for the College." 
Naples, a native of Akron, Ohio, was selected by an exec­utive search committee and confirmed by the Board of 
Trustees. Naples was a sor of physics, computer pro­
member of the College's fac-gramming, and mathematics. According to Shannon, "There were many qualified candi­dates. However, we feel Bro­ther Naples' strong organiza­tional skills and dedication to education will make him an ex­cellent president." "It is a great pleasure to have Brother Naples becuse it marks the continuation of lead­ership in this College under a Holy Cross Brother," said Bazil O'Hagan, chairman of the search committee. 
see NAPLES, page 6 

' 


Kernan speaks at Mock Convention 
By SUSAN Kernan stated that the said. He added that this MARHEFKA American political system purpose is a "very impor­Staff Reporter "has many different things tant one" because the real involved in it . . . candi­convention will select a 
South Bend Mayor 
dates, conventions, candidate "who will lead Joseph Kernan gave the caucuses and primaries." the Democratic party in welcoming address at the "The system isn't per­the next four years as well 1988 Mock National Con­fect," he said, "but in the as one who will hopefully
vention. In his speech, Ker­
history of man in compar­be the next President of the nan spoke about the actual ison to all other systems, it United States." nomination process and really is perfect." "You must make some the place that the conven­The purpose of the mock decisions as to who yoution has in it. 
convention is to try to think can best serve the 
Citing a recent conversa­predict what the tion with Maryland Con­Democrats are going to do see KERNAN, page 5 gressman Tom Miller in AHanta in Jtiiv. Kernan 

Mock delegates debate platform planks, rules 
By CHRIS JULKA towards the end. It's good to MARK MCLAUGHLIN see that lots of people know Senior Staff Reporters what's going on" about the is­sues of the campaign, said 

Hundreds of students demon­Denise Weis, vice chairman of strated noisily in Stepan Center the Mock Convention. last night to mark the opening "We wish people would session of the Mock National debate more on the issues and Convention. less on the ways of discussing
Steve Claeys, chairman of the issues," said Weis, refer­the campaign committee, esti­ring to a heated debate earlymated the night's crowd at 300 in the evening on intepretation 
to 350 people. "The debate really got going see MOCK, page 5 
-----~----­
Tuesday, April 12, 1988
page 2 The Observer 
In Brief ~ Why do parents enjoy 
ThomasFehlner,NotreDameprofessorofchemistry, 


family vacations?
has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship Award for 

studies in thin film deposition. The 1988 Committee of Se­lection for this award chose 262 artists, scholars, and scien­tists from among 3,265 applicants for Fellowship awards totaling $6,343,000. The new Guggenheim Fellows were appointed on the basis of unusually distinguished achieve­ment in the past and exceptional promise for future ac­complishment. Scholarship and science are represented by the major disciplines of the physical and biological sciences, the social sciences, and the humanities. A total of 95 institutions are represented by one or more Fellows.­
The Observer 
Of Interest 
Sylvia Bouiza will be at the Center for Social Concerns today and Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. She will be speaking about the Puerto Rican Volunteer Program in San Juan. -The Observer 
Elizabeth Hay, professor at Harvard Medical School, will speak on "Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transformation Induced In Vitro and in the Embryo" today at 4:30p.m. in the Galvin Life Science auditorium. -The Observer 
Hispanic-American or2anization meets today at 5:30p.m. in the Breen-Philllps Puzzle Room. Officers will be elected and the end of the year party will be planned. -The Observer 
Masculinity and men's issues will be the focus of the second of a two part workshop sponsored by the University Counseling Center today from 6:30-8 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer
. 

Senior class "Backpack to Briefcase" lectures will take place today from 7-9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. Topics include: "Finding a Place to Live" by Jan DaBrowiak, manager of Georgetown Apartments; "You and,the Community" by Susan Cornell­Ohl, director of research at the South Bend Chamber of Commerce and Project Future; and "Being a Notre Dame Alumnus" by Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. -The Observer 
An Alcohol intervention seminaris being offered tonight from 7-9 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. The workshop provides information on ways to help people with problems related to drinking and includes films, dis­cussions, role playing, and forums. It will also take place on April 18 and 19. For more information call 239-7970. 
-The Observer 
Student civil engineers are sponsoring a lecture on Frank Lloyd Wright's Falling Water during the general meeting today at 7:30p.m. in Room 303 Cushing Hall of Engineering. Refreshments will be served following the meeting. -The Observer 
Organist Sandra Soderland will present a guest recital today at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. For more information contact Eric Kuehner in the music depart­ment at 239-6201. -The Observer 
Stephen Baird, professional Boston street singer, will be performing today from 8:30-11:30 p.m. on Haggar Ter­race at Saint Mary's. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
Professor Mark Searle will speak on "The What and Why of Liturgical Studies" today at 10 p.m. in the first floor lounge of St. Edward's Hall. -The Observer 
A Eucharistic Ministers Workshop to prepare new and returning eucharistic ministers for 1988-89 will be today at 10 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The partici­pants will be commissioned to serve at the residence halls, Sacred Heart Church, or other Notre Dame communities starting at the beginning of Fall '88. -The Observer 
Design Editor .... ... ... . . Alison Cocks Design A•sistant .. .. ........ Kim Evans Typesetters ... .. John Rossmiller 
.......... Anne Ducey News Editor... .. ... Tim O'Keefe Copy Editor .. . Cindy Broderick Sports Copy Editor... .. .. .. . Pete Skiko 


Tile Olleerfer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Obeener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint MUy's College. Subscription. may be purchas· ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tile Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Olleerfer is a member of Tile ~led Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Viewpoint Layout ...... R. Aschenbrenner Accent Layout . Kathleen McCaffrey Typist ................................. Jenn Conlon ........................................ Lynsey Strand .......................................... Wendy Burek ND Day Editor ...................... David Lee SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine 

It's day three of the three billion-hour 
transcontinental journey to Grandma Cinder's 
house: the dreaded family vacation. To pass 
the time the family had engaged in such 
stimulating activites as counting car colors, 
license plates, and farm animals. The new task 
at hand was to catagorize them all by state. 
Every person in the car had the chance to 
play navigator with the map, which soon rested 
in a crumpled ball under the back seat of that 
infamous family vacationmobile: the station 
wagon. The radio had bombarded my numb 
ears with another one of those Tiffany-Debbie 
Gibson tunes, when to my horror I realized that 
both my 13-year-old brother and I knew the 
words. To make matters worse, the inevitable 
family squabble broke out because Jeanne 
kicked Peter in the face while supposedly 
"shifting" in her seat. 

Mom and Dad pretended to ignore the battle 
that raged in the back seat until it approached 
the three-minute mark (a practice that they 
have engaged in quite frequently on this vaca­
tion), at which point Dad shouted those long 
awaited words: "That's it --I've had it! This 
is the last vacation you kids are ever ever going 
on!" It doesn't matter that it's the fourth time 
I have heard this threat because I don't want 
to extinguish the the hope that maybe this time, 
Dad will follow through ... 

Several months later, on the return plane trip 
from Aunt Jenny's house in Nebraska, I realize 
Dad's threat has yet to be followed through. 
It's about time for another one of those family 
bicker sessions. This one is caused by Peter's 
combination war whoop and chant he used to 
glorify his victory over my sister at Pictionary. 
The fight began after I informed Peter that Professor Baxter, my Pictionary and Other Stupid Games prof, just told us the other day that higher Pictionary scores are inversely proportional to I.Q. The customary three min­ute squabble is followed by the inevitable threat which is heard by the entire plane with an added twist, "That's it, this really is the last vacation you kids are going on, and I mean it!" 
I had often wondered why my parents, like others, persist in these often headache-filled trips. They could escape to Tahiti and spend the day swimming on the beach, sleeping and tanning. I was completely baffled because the trips seemed neither exciting nor fun for them until ... we bought the luggage carrier. 
The luggage carrier was purchased to solve the back seat squabbles and make my dad's life much easier. Instead, it created the classic car catastrophe. My family and I had stopped 

at my aunt's house in Steven's Point, Wisconsin 
on the way to the North Woods. While my dad 
went to the gas station, the rest of the family 
stayed at my aunt's house to learn some fasci­nating new gardening tips. My father was "cruising along" when he noticed our luggage carrier lift off the top of our station wagon and plop down on the four-lane expressway. 
. The four mack trucks were only too happy to Jockey for a position to hit our poor suitcases. They hit their mark and scattered our clothes all over the highway. My poor father was left to dodge cars and pluck underwear from the guard rails. 
Alas, this experience did not keep us from 
the North Woods or any other destination. In 
fact, we ran out and bought new suitcases as 
soon as we arrived at home. 
Gradually, however, I realized that my par­ents really enjoyed all of the yelling, hassles and catastrophes. They spent time with their children and traveled at the same time. 
After our last trip, I began to wonder if they had started to grow on me too --then again, maybe I just haven't been on one in a while. 

................................................................ 
I 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing
11 LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 

LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a hfesav1ng 
Red Cross CPR course.

+American Red Cross 
ril!!


r----=----i 
t Allied t t Shipping t 
!Let us pack and ship yourf 'electronic equipment,f fstereo, etc. direct to yotA1 fhome by UPS-Emery. f 
t 219-277-7616 t t Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri f fUniversity Commonsf f SR 23 & Hickory f f Western Union t 
L--~a!!.a~~-_t 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. 
Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting 
anditmaybeyourlastopportunitytograd­
uate with an Army Officer's commission. 



ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARnST COW~£ COUBSE YOU CAN TAKE. 

Scholarships this Summer rrick 239-6264 


~-------------­ - --~-----------­ -­--­ 
Tuesday, April 12, 1988  The Observer  page 3  


Chavez speaks at 
By JIM RILEY Senior Staff Reporter 
Cesar Chavez, president of the United Farm Workers of America, lobbied Monday night for consumer support of the UFW's boycott against fresh California table grapes and announced plans to target specific grocery store chains on the east and west coasts. 
Chavez, who spoke at the Center for Social Concerns, said the boycott was designed to call attention to the dangers of the pesticides used by grape growers. 
"We want to limit the spread of poisons in the fields we work in and limit the spread of poisons in the food you eat,'' said Chavez. 
Residues from the five pes­ticides which the UFW wants to have banned get on the workers' skin as they pick the grapes, he said, adding that consumers are also in danger. "Innocent-looking grapes on the table may hide residues that washing cannot remove," he said. 
He began his presentation with a 14-minute film featuring children which the film said had contracted cancer or had been born with birth defects as a result of their mothers' con-


ND in support of 
boycott 
to the Notre Dame administra­tion about a boycott of table grapes. "I'm talking to you," he told the audience of students and members of the general public. "It would be good if you could get them to remove the grapes from the Food Ser­vices." 
The UFW currently faces two large fines from court judg­ments they have recently lost. "We now owe something like $7 million," Chavez said. "There was a time back there 
in the 60s when the court judg­ments against us were someth­ing like $52 million. We never paid a cent." 
tact with pesticides in the fields. 
He then outlined the history of the UFW from its early or­ganizational attempts through its past boycotts to the current boycott against table grapes. 
Chavez said the UFW will soon aim its boycott directly at A&P stores on the east coast and Safeway stores on the west coast. 
He said the UFW had success in the past when it boycotted other grocery stores by sending letters directly to store managers. Many of the managers, while denying they were influenced by the boycott, would nonetheless pull the 


VIdeo King 
The Observer ITodd Tucker 

Since spring doesn't seem to be cooperating with an old standby version of entertainment, the game optimal weather for outdoor sports, this student chose room in LaFortune. 
k 


Real Estate Anal~st Program 
Let Our High-Powered Program Be APrelude To Your MBA! 
Want some rock solid investment real estate 
experience before proceeding with your graduate 
education? Then consider this great opportunity 
with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest owner 
of income producing real estate. 
We're looking for enthusiastic, intelligent SA's and BS's (who are already planning to attend a top business school in 1990) for two year stints in our real estate analyst program. To qualify, you'll need 
a B+ or better undergraduate GPA and the skills required for complex mathematical real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
Not only do these positions provide outstanding on-the-job training and experience, they offer very attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume (including GPA) to: 
The Prudential Realty Group Detroit Realty Group Office 2000 Town Center, Suite 2280 Southfield, Michigan 48075 Attention: Analyst Program 

The Prudential C7iM
-

Realty Group 




H• • 
IJaC 
continued from page 1 
have Bahraini passports, three have Iraqi passports and one has a Colombian passport, he said. 
He sidestepped a question about whether the jet would be stormed, saying that was a items off the shelves, Chavez said. 

Running a boycott is even easier these days, he said, with modern demographic and statistical techniques and with direct mail campaigns. The portion of the community that is considered "socially con­scious" is targeted, often through mailings to specific postal carrier routes. 
"We'll win a boycott without the majority of Americans knowing about it -it's that highly targeted," said Chavez. 
"We know that 11 percent of the consumers are willing to boycott anything," he added. 
Chavez said he had not talked 
Teachers demonstrate against Noriega 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama-­Hundreds of teachers demon­strated Monday against Panamanian strongman Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega as Panama slid further toward chaos in the seventh week of an economic and political crisis. 
American business execu­tives, meanwhile, were trying to figure out how they were af­fected by new U.S. sanctions that could cost Panama mil­lions of dollars. 
The sanctions prohibit U.S. businesses from making pay­ments, including taxes, to the Panamanian government. Panama is virtually bankrupt because of a run on its banks, the freezing of Panamanian deposits in U.S. banks and a va­riety of American sanctions aimed at forcing Noriega to resign. 
Protesting teachers, who along with 100,000 other public employees have not been paid fully in more than a month, gathered in front of the Mini­stry of Education and shouted anti-Noriega slogans for several hours before dispers­ing without incident. 
"Pineapple face, you must go," they cried in a mocking reference to Noriega's jowly, pockmarked face. 
Fred Denton, executive director of the American 
Chamber of Commerce in received numerous calls from representatives of U.S. firms asking how the tax sanctions would be applied. "If we take this to the letter of the law, I wouldn't be able to buy a Panamanian postage stamp," Denton said. "We're in a complete state of confu­sion." President Reagan on Friday invoked a sweeping economic sanctions law against Panama to force the ouster of Noriega, the commander of the 15,000­member Defense Forces and the power behind the civilian government. The Treasury Department in Washington was expected to issue guidelines this week covering the sanctions imposed under the 1977 International Emergency Economic Powers Act. In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater defended the steps as an at­tempt to deny Noriega "money that could be used to per­petuate his stay in power." Noriega repeated his claim that the U.S. actions are an at­tempt by Washington to renege on the treaty that will turn over full control of the Panama Canal to his country at the turn of the century. Noriega is under federal in­dictment in the United States on drug trafficking charges. 

~~----------------~--~~~----~----~-------­
matter for the Cypriot aut­horities since the plane was on their territory. 
The man killed Monday was pushed from the blue-and­white plane at 3:07 p.m. (8:07 
a.m. EDT) after Cypriot offi­cials ignored two deadlines to refuel the jet. An ambulance picked up the body 30 minutes later. 

Uncle's Irish Pub 
4609 Grape Rd., Mishawaka -Douglas to Grape -2 blocks -Rt. hand side 

Tuesday Night Draft Beer Nite Draft Beer 1Oc -DJ Spuds Nite 
Free T -shirts & Bud Ught mugs 
Doctors at Larnaca morgue said he had suffered injuries to the side of his face, apparently from a beating. They said he had been shot twice in the head at close range before his body, hands bound behind his back, was thrown onto the tarmac at Larnaca Airport. 
"We have executed a Kuwaiti officer,'' a hijacker told the control tower. "We also 
reconfirm that the craft must be refueled immediately, im­mediately, before we take more dangerous steps." 
At dusk, the hijackers put one of the passengers, identified as Fadl Marzouk el-Oteibi, on the radio. 
Speaking in Arabic, he told the control tower: "the hijack­ers say that if you don't give us fuel they will kill all the pas­sengers. Please listen to this and greetings to my family." 
The hijackers said they wanted about nine hours' worth of fuel so they could fly to an 

1.1®1--~~---*llU!l-.<:l•••••••••••• unspecified ''neutral country.'' 
--------~-.. 
Tuesday, April 12, 1988
The Observer

a e 4 


Junior trying to raise support for fund to solve little girl's murder 
By ROBYN SIMMONS 
News Staff 
The brutal slaying of an 8­year-old girl in Fort Wayne has prompted Notre Dame junior Greg Pierce to stimulate campus interest in a reward fund established by a Fort Wayne radio station. 
WMEE-FM created the April Tinsley Reward Fund last week to raise money to award anybody with information leading to the arrest and con­viction of Tinsley's murderer. 
Tinsley was last seen alive on April 1. She was abducted on her way to a friend's house, and her body was found two days later in a ditch in Dekalb county. 
According to the autopsy report, Tinsley had been raped prior to her death by suffoca­tion. 
Pierce is currently trying to get students interested in donating cash or checks to the fund. "Right now, it's just being publicized to try and get anyone that knows anything about (the murder) to come forward," he said. 
"The radio station has done it out of a gesture of goodness; (the family) didn't solicit them," said Pierce, "They didn't establish a dollar amount--it's whatever people feel like giving." 
Presently, contributions to the fund are coming mainly from residents of Fort Wayne. "There's been a lot of partici­pation," said Pierce, adding 

Israel deports eight 
that he did not know the . amount currently in the fund. 
"In the event that no one is 
caught, all of the checks will 
be returned, and the cash will 
be given to Crimestoppers," he 
said. 

"My wife and I live in that 
neighborhood," Pierce said, 
"and we would like to think that 
our friends and neighbors 
would band together in support 
in order to aid the authorities 
in their search." 

"I'd just like to reach out a 
little to my fellow student body 
at Notre Dame," he said. 

Any students interested in 
contributing to the fund can 
contact Pierce between 11 a.m. 
and 1 p.m. in Room 217 of the 
Engineering Student Center in 
Cushing Hall of Engineering. 
people; 

two more dead in West Bank 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM --Israel ex­pelled eight Palestinians from the occupied lands Monday, ac­cusing them of inciting the four months of violence there, and it issued deportation orders against 12 others. 
In the West Bank, mean­while, Israeli troops shot and killed two Arabs after a group of Palestinians threw stones and bottles at a patrol, the army said. Hospital officials said eight Arabs were wounded. 
Among the 12 receiving deportation orders were six Palestinians from a West Bank village where an Israeli settler girl and two Arabs were killed in a clash last week. 
Palestinian leaders con­tended the purpose of the ex­pulsions was to appease right­wing politicians and Jewish settlers angered by an army report that said Tirza Porat, 15, was killed by a bullet from an­other settler's gun. 
But Israel television quoted a top military official as saying the deportations were intended as a warning, to Palestinians. 
In the West Bank village of Rai near Nablus, troops shot and killed two Arabs after a pa­trol was pelted with rocks and bottles, the army said. 

Arab doctors said three other 

Palestinians, including an 11-Fill er up year-old girl and a 14~~ear-ol~ With gas pump in hand, Jim Raine stands over pint-sized Donald Sullivan boy, . were ~o.unded ~n Rat. and his matching mini-jeep at a Lake Street station. It is questionable Hospital offtctals s~ud four whether Notre Dame students have this type of luxury transportation. 
others were wounded m N ablus and one in Jenin, another vil­lage near Nablus. 
The deaths brought to 143 the number of Arabs killed since riots began Dec. 8 in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Is­rael captured from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East war. Two Israelis, Ms. Porat and a soldier, have also died. 
• , 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer )Mt advertising. jMt0 Call 239-6900 ~ 
~I.....IIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIHfMIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI......IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.......Il 
. FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAMS 
: Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, April 12, 1988. 
At each program complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree curriculum. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college proQram area, are as follows: 
ARTS AND LETTERS COLLEGE PROGRAMS {all, including AL Preprofessional) 
Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium A through Kat 6:30 PM L through Z at 8:00 PM 

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION COLLEGE PROGRAM 
122 Hayes-Healy Center A through K at 6:30 to 7:30 P.M. L through Z at 7:45 to 8:45 P.M. 

ENGINEERING COLLEGE PROGRAMS -6:30 P.M. 
Aerospace 12 Aerospace Building ~75)

Architecture :
202 Architecture BuildingChemical 
182 Fitzpatrick Hall 'Civil 
·205 Cushing Hall
I Electrical and Computer Engineering 356 Fitzpatrick HallI Materials Science and Engineering
I 
384 Fitzpatrick HallMechanical 
120 Cushing Hall 
I I 

I I SCIENCE COLLEGE PROGRAMS-6:30P.M. 
Biological Sciences 283 . Galvin Life Science Center 
Chemistry 158A Stepan Chemistry Hall (enter through North door only) Earth Sciences 101 Earth Science Building Mathematics 300 Computing Centeli'Math Bldg. 
Physics  341 Nieuwland Science (7:00 P.M.)  
Preprofessional  (All  majors,  this  includes  all collegiate sequence majors)  
SCIENCE ONLY  118 Nieuwland Science Hall  

I 
FINANCIAL AID INFORMATION -9:00 P.M. Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium 
i ALL FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO 
" ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
lllllfiiiiiiNIHIIMMHIIMMI................HIIIIIIIHIIII......IIIHIHIIII.....HIIIHtiiiiiiiiiiiH...IIHIII...........IIHI..IIIHIItlti..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJi 
Tuesday, April 12, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Observer Mock Convention Straw Poll* 


Jackson .:.;!~· * 74 

delegates total 



31% 
GEOFF SAUER!The Observer
manager for Paul Simon. He added that, once this hurdle

Mock 
was cleared, "people were 

continued from page 1 
really starting to enjoy the of convention procedure. debate." 
Immediately after South "Everyone had a little fire in Bend Mayor Joe Kernan their eyes," said Mark Betten­opened the convention, Mike court, Dukakis' mock cam­J aegar, representing Michigan paign manager. He added that as delegate chairman, chal­the delegates are the people lenged the convention's rules who help create the party plat­and procedures. form. Among the issues 
"What we had was an aut­debated Monday night were horitarian situation," Jaeger education, the environment, said, stating he objected prin­social programs, and crime. cipally to the powers held by According to John Farley, Mock Convention Chairman mock campaign manager for Vince Willis. Jesse Jackson, environmental 
"When non-Congressman issues received the most atten­Ward came, he (Willis) just tion in debate. suspended the convention, put­Debate on the platform ting an end to debate without planks was spirited, said Col­consent of the delegates." leen Prentice, mock chairman 
Michael Faehner, chairman of the Ohio delegation. "This is of the rules committee, called a great opportunity for stu­the protest a "mockery of a dents to expose themselves to mock convention." the issues and arguments from 
"It was nitpicking," he said. all sides." 
"I think that may have turned Farley said, "I think a lot of a lot of people off," he added, conservative sentiment has arguing that most in atten­come up in debate. There is dance at the convention were definitely a Notre Dame tinge unfamiliar with the procedural to the debate." 

points raised. "I'd say we're going to see a South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan delivered the wel­"We had some initial trouble rather moderate platform," 
coming address to attendees of the 1988 Mock Na­
with regard to rules," said Bill 
said Farley. tional Convention last night at Stepan Center. MayorSmith, mock campaign 
Judge orders woman not to have abortion performed 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 

Associated Press suffer irreparable damage if be the father and who serves an abortion occurred. as general counsel for the na­
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. --A He also was seeking a court tional Right to Life organiza­Vigo County judge perma­order establishing his paren­tion, said he could not comment nently barred a pregnant 18-thood. Since the case involves on the case until it left the year-old woman from having a paternity action, the names county court's jurisdiction. an abortion Monday, but her at­of the man and woman have Christine Bopp, his wife and torney immediately took steps not been released publicly. the president of Vigo County to appeal the case directly to Attorney Samuel Beecher, Right to Life, said she also had the Indiana Supreme Court this who represents the woman, in­been instructed not to comment week. dicated he hoped to appeal the on the case. 
Michael Lee Gradison, exec­case directly to the Indiana Su­No formal request was filed 
utive director of the Indiana preme Court, sidestepping the Monday for a Supreme Court Civil Liberties Union, state Court of Appeals so the appeal, but Brown and attor­predicted the state's highest matter could be resolved more neys for both sides conferred court would overturn the ruling quickly. with Supreme Court Adminis­by Circuit Judge Robert Brown, "Under the decisions of the trator Karl Mulvaney.
Programs at Grof?;tlorm Programs abroad possibly as early as Thursday. U.S. Supreme Court, a state · The high court wants the ap­
0 Over ZOO graduate and undergraduate 0 Antwerp, llelgium-lnt'l. Trade 
Brown, without explaining court does not have any juris­peal to follow routine proce­
COUr!•C!\ 
0 China-Chinese l.anguage and ( :uhure 

0 Apprnache• to Teaching Writing 0 Tou", France-Language and Culture the decision he reached Friday, diction to enter a restraining dure, Mulvaney said. That 0 Public Allain lntern~hip' 
0 Fie•ole. Italy -ltaliao made permanent a temporary order against a pregnant wo­means a motion to correct er­
0 lligh School Programs 0 Florence, Italy-Renaissance ( :uhure 
0 Intercultural Training D (ircct"c-llumanitics injuction he had issued a week man during the first trimester rors in the decision must be D Interpretation and Translation Institute 0 Leningrad, li.S.S.R.-Russian ago in which he barred the wo­of her pregnancy," Beecher filed and acted on in the lower 0 l.anRuagc Cour'iC5 0 Oxford, England-Comparative man from having an abortion. said. court before the Supreme Court 
0 Theology Conference Bu•ine" (undergraduate) 
0 Literary Criucism Conference 0 Oxford. England -International The man who claims to be the Attorney James Bopp, who entertains a motion to hear an 0 P.ri•h Work•hop Mana~ement (graduate> father of the fetus said he would represents the man claiming to appeal.
0 Quito. Ecuador-Spanish0 lnnirute fnr II.S, Teache" 


Smoking on short flightswill soon be prohibited 
Associated Press state law in California and 
banned smoking on flights

WASHINGTON --The airline within the state. smoking ban that goes into ef­The law enacted by Congress fect April 23 on commercial last year prohibits smoking on aircraft will apply to any flight any flight of two hours or less scheduled for two hours or less on jet aircraft as well as even if delays cause the flight smaller commuter planes. 
to take longer, the Federal Charter flights and those in­Aviation Administration said volving travel clubs are ex­Monday. empt from the rules. Congress required the The FAA, clarifying details 
smoking ban on short flights in of the restrictions, said Mon­legislation passed last year. day that the length of the flight The FAA issued its final rules shall be determined by the on the prohibition Monday, al­elapsed time shown for the though the general outline of flight in the Official Airline 
the new restrictions has been Guide. Should a flight be known for months. delayed so it takes longer than 
Airlines since the first of the two hours, the ban still is in ef­
year have complied with a fect, the FAA said. 
0 'l.rier. Wesr (Jermany-(Jcrman

0 Sacred Scrtpture lnstirurc 
0 Dublin, Ireland ~Irish Literature desires of all constituents." we will be able to do something
0 Alumni College 0 Engli•h as a Foreign Language Constituents include the about it." 
G,,_ Ulli!Jmity is •• ,...tapfJDt'to.•ity/ 
Kernan 

a{fi1'11Ulivt «riOfl iiiJritoh.. io mrpla'f"'llll au homeless, poor and uned­In closing, Kernan told the 
St.Hi011.1 continued from page 1 
"''"uriM.f. ucated, said Kernan. convention "as you go through
Pre-May 23-June 17 
country in the next four years," He said he thinks that the your deliberations ... all that
Fim-June 6-July II Call (202) OM7-6ZZ4 or mailw: 8-Week Cros• Se55ion-June o-july 2'1 SSCE-C;eorgetown l'niversity he said. convention is "a great idea" is expected is to do your best,
6-Week Cro" Se5Sion-June 20-july 29 J06 Intercultural Center 
Kernan named several is­and that it exposes people to to do what you think is right
Second-july 11-Augusl 12 Washington, D.C. 20057 · 
sues with which the convention important processes which not and, above all, to have a good
S..J-.••~: 
Name ______________________________________ should be concerned, including many people understand. time." the economy and foreign "It is an integral part of our 
Addre" --------------------------------"We Democrats have more
policy. He also stated the system," Kernan said. "The 
-----------------------Zip'-----fun," Kernan said. "We are
necessity to be responsive to better we are able to under­indeed a happy people." 
"the needs, wants (and) stand (the system), the better 
The Observer Tuesday, April 12, 1988 page 6 
Patent given for altered mouse 
Associated Press The Supreme Court in 1980 ports a moratorium on animal ruled that man-made life or­patents. 
WASHINGTON-The govern­ganisms could be patented, but Jeremy Rifkin, president of ment has approved a patent for the Harvard patent is the first the Foundation on Economic a genetically altered mouse, to protect a genetic change in Trends, an anti-biotechnology the first patent to be issued for a higher life form, the newspa­group, said the patent officials an animal, according to a pub­per said. were "setting themselves up as lished report. Licensing rights for the pat­the arbiters of public policy in 
The Patent and Trademark ent are held by Du Pont Co., this country and they have no Office approved the patent, and which financed the research. legitimate right to do it. This congressional sources said it While Harvard would not dis­is something Congress ought to had been granted to Harvard cuss its patent, experts said ge­decide." University for use in cancer­netically altering a mouse related research, The Wash­would involve inserting a gene But Geoffrey Karny, a Wash­ington Post reported in Tues­from another animal into a ington patent attorney, said the day editions. mouse embryo to give the action was "not a radical 
Patent office spokesman Os­animal characteristics it other­departure from existing car Mastin declined to confirm wise would not have. policy." the Post report, but said Patent "This opens the floodgates and Trademark Commissioner for a whole range of patents, "Granting a patent on Donald Quigg would announce from fish to house pets," said animals is an entirely logical "a significant patent" at a Jack Doyle of the Environmen­application of existing patent news conference Tuesday. tal Policy Institute, which sup-law principles." 
New Student Senate holds first meeting 
By JENNIFER GRONER professor of markerting, results of the surveys would be News Staff advised Melissa Smith, student compiled was also discussed. government executive coordin­Currently, student government Senior participation in the ator of special projects, that is planning to compile the upcoming Student Government seniors should not be included results by hand. The possibility Survey,Questionaire on task in the survey so that its statisti­of useing Scantron answer force reports was debated at cal soundness could be as­sheets was discussed and the first 1988-89 Student Senate sured. rejected because this method 
meeting last night. After Senate members dis­would limit student's ability to Jackson campaigns
At this time the hall presi­cussed this issue it was decided voice their opinions. dents are in transition and, as that seniors will be included in Because this was the first In preparation for the April19 New York primary, Democratic presidential a result, a quorum was not some capacity in the ques­Senate meeting, those attend-candidate Jesse Jackson speaks Sunday at a Westchester County Clergy present to vote on any issues, tionaire. The possiblity of ing were given the opportunity Rally at lona College in New Rochelle, N.Y. said Student Body President keeping the senior responses to introduce themselves and N d "II b d 
Tom Doyle. seperate is being considered. commentontheirgoalsforthe ew arms WI e rea y
The question of how the Student Senate.


PaUi~urph.socia~ 
~,;,_t ~ ....n,~-, ''•~> ' , ~~~A~~~~!~o~~~o~:r~p~~m:~y2Wstu­
,.. ,_,, 

;( \"'1 News Staff dents. The distribution of t, ' j rooms includes 12 singles, 77 · The two new dorms, Knott doubles, and 18 quads,
Itt,, . ~ !1 ~~· .., and Siegfried, which have been Reinebold said. 
under construction this year, will be finished in time for the Maureen Finnigan and her next academic school year, ac­roommate, Christina Valicenti, cording to Evelyn Reinebold, who are presently residents of director of student residences. Pasquerilla West, have both 
The percentage of incoming applied for rooms in the new freshmen that will be living in dorms. Although they have not the two dorms is not yet known. been notified, the list of stu­On-campus students were dents accepted to the new given preference in allocating dorms has been posted in the dorm space. Reinebold said, Office of Student Residences. "Everyone that lives on campus was given a form with Finnigan said that she the option to be placed in the wanted to move to the new 
dorms." dorms because she feels it will be "a good chance to meet new 
All applicants for space in the people." new dorms were placed in one of the dorms. No incoming Applicants were not allowed freshmen have been placed in to specify the room size they
the dorms yet, although space preferred on the application,has been set aside for them. but Finnigan said she assumes The new dorms will each there will be room picks
have 107 rooms, which will al-similar to other dorms. 

continued from page 1 
Naples referred to Holy Cross as the "best kept secret in the area." Naples said he looks forward to improving the future of the College by gaining the college more exposure to students and the community. Shannon said, "a program is in action to increase the visibility of the College. However, this 
will not be a growth of enroll­ment, but a growth in service to the community." 
Naples is the second presi­dent of the college. He will begin his administrative duties on April 16 and will be in­augurated in September. 

Tuesday, April 12, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Meese considered making Wedtech friend key aide 
Associated Press "Meese recalls that he was 
clearly interested in having

WASHINGTON-Attorney Bob Wallach at that time come General Edwin Meese III dis­into the department, but that cussed g1vmg a longtime no formal offer was ever ad­
friend, E. Robert Wallach, a vanced to him," Rocap said. key Justice Department post a The job of counselor is a po­week or so before being notified sition traditionally held by one formally that Wallach was un­of the most trusted advisers to 
der criminal investigation in an attorney general. the Wedtech scandal, a lawyer Rocap said he does not know for Meese said Monday. whether Meese or Wallach in­
Meese and Wallach con­itiated the job talks or how 
ducted job talks concerning the many there were. then-vacant post of counselor Meese is on a trip to South to the attorney general in America this week and was not 
"limited discussions held in immediately available for late March or early April" of comment. 1987, Meese attorney James Around April 8, 1987, the at­Rocap said. torney general was notified for-
Security Beat 
mally unaer an administrative Rocap characterized as Wallach considered installingmechanism 
the FBI "ridiculous, unbelievable" Wallach on an advisory com­suggestions by columnists mission of outside experts in Rowland Evans and Robert 1985 to examine the adminis­Novak that Meese had consid­tration of the Justice Depart­ered the idea of bringing Wal­ment and suggest possible lach into the Justice Depart­changes. The commission, ap­ment "to be a live possibility" parently the idea of Meese and until last December when Wal­Wallach, was never created. lach was indicted in the Wed­tech scandal. The counselor's job was 
"When Mr. Meese was told vacant after Kenneth Cribb Jr.,
that Wallach had become a sub­a member of Meese's inner ject of the investigation in circle of conservative advisers, 
April, that intervening event went to the White House early 
Edwin Meese 

terminated essentially any in March 1987 to handle the that Wallach had become a sub­substantive discussions of any transition of incoming chief of 
ject of the criminal investiga­kind" between the two men, staff Howard Baker. Cribb is tion into scandal-plagued Wed­Rocap said. now assistant to the presidenttech Corp. Rocap also said Meese and for domestic affairs. 

Tuesday, April 5 
2:50 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her locked bike from the stairway leading to her dorm sometime between 4:15 p.m. on April 2 and I p.m. on April 5. Her loss is estimated at $150. 
7:20 p.m. A resident of Alumni Ifall reported the passenger side window of his vehicle had been broken sometime between 12:01 a.m. and 2 
p.m. while it was parked in the Cl lot. Damage is estimated at $40. 
7:30 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet and checkbook from his room possibly sometime between 6 and 7 p.m. on March .10. His loss is estimated at $14. 
5:00p.m. A University employee found a set of keys in the pay phone booth on the ground floor of the Administration Building and turned them over to Security. 
Wednesday, April 6 
3:00 p.m. A 4x8x6 plank fell out of a University maintenance vehicle and hit a passing car on Bulla Road. There were no injuries, and damage is estimated at $2(Xl. 
Thursday, April 7 
2:50 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the loss of his student ID card at the Joyce ACC around 11 p.m. on Apri16. 
H:30 p.m. A Breen-Phillips resident reported the theft of her calculator from the third floor hallway of Fit7.patrick around 4:15 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $75. 
Friday, April 8 
9:45 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported that his car had been vandalized while it was parked in the B 1 lot sometime between 7 and 9:30a.m. 
3:56 p.m. A minor, two-vehicle accident was reported on Juniper Road at the Heshurgh Library intersection. There were no injuries, and one driver was arrested for driving while under the influence of alcohol. 
4:39 p.m. A worker from the Knott and Siegfried construction site reported that a backhoe was vandalized 
sometime between 5 p.m. on April 1 and 8 a.m. on April 4. 
12:05 p.m. A University employee reported a hit and run accident to his vehicle while it was parked in the B15 lot sometime between I :20 and 5:20 
p.m. Damage is estimated at $200. 
Saturday, April 9 
12: 13 a.m. A University employee reponed the theft of two sign boards from the north side of the South Dining Hall. Loss is estimated at $100. 
2:00 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the loss of her wallet and its contents in the Sorin R:oom of LaFonune Student Center around 12 
p.m. • 
I:00 p.m. A Pasquerilla Hall resident reported the theft of two watches from her unlocked room sometime between 2:15 and 8:45 p.m. on April 8. Her loss is valued at $210. 
I 0:15 a.m. A Burke Memorial Golf Course employee reported that someone had vandalized the #3 green and had stolen two flag poles from the #II and #18 greens sometime prior to 6 a.m. 
9:30 p.m. A student was issued a citation for illegally entering campus. 
Sunday, April 10 
12:59 a.m. Security investigated the report that a suspicious person was looking into cars parked in the University Village parking lot. The suspect was apprehended, charged with public intoxication and transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
2:04 a.m. Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire Department in responding to a false alann at the mail room on the first floor of Morrissey Hall. A witness was able to give a description of the person who pulled the alann. 
II :25 a.m A Lyons Hall resident reported her car had been vandalized while it was parked in the B II lot sometime between 8 p.m. Saturday and !!:30 a.m. Sunday. 
Total Destruction 
' 

At least one neighborhood was nearly flattened Sun-ing more than 550. These houses were about 200 day when an ammunition dump exploded outside the yards from the initial blast. Pakistani capital, killing dozens of people and wound-
Business schools out of touch with the real world, says study 
Associated Press tury, without careful thought Education and uevelopment: 
and strategic planning about drift or Thrust into the 21st Cen­
DALLAS-The most detailed the roles their graduates will tury," was commissioned by assessment of the nation's busi­play in the changing world of the American Assembly of Col­ness schools in nearly 30 years business," the study said. legiate Schools of Business, an found widespread com­The 372-page report, accrediting bQdy whose 254 placency, poor planning and a released Monday at a national member schools award about lack of contact with the busi­convention of business schools, 55 percent of all business ness world. drew immediate fire from degrees awarded annually. 
"While both corporate and deans and corporate officials The report chided schools for academic leaders believe busi­who said the report didn't go preaching long-term planning ness schools are performing far enough in addressing social in the corporate world but reasonably well at present, and ethical issues, including doing little planning them­they are in danger of drifting minority recruitment. selves beyond the next semes­casually toward the 21st cen-The report, "Management ter. 

Shultz 
continued from page 1 
Shultz acknowledged that the removal of Soviet troops will not necessarily mean an end to the fighting. Once the Red Army is withdrawn, Shultz said, "then the people of Af­ghanistan have got to work things out. That's their right and their problem .... Perhaps we can get to a period of at least relative stability." 
Beginning May 15, the Soviet Union is to begin withdrawing its 115,000 troops, with 50 per­cent of the forces removed over a three-month period. All 
The Observer 
remaining Soviet forces are to be out by Feb. 15, 1989. 
Shultz said Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze has promised to complete the withdrawal by the end of the year, ahead of the deadline. He said the United States will "push for that and expect that." 
While hailing the agreement, Shultz said, "the withdrawal of Soviet troops is obviously not the end of the matter." Negotiations will continue for the establishment of an interim government. "We know it's not easy, it will be hard," Shultz said. 
He said the United States will help the rebels "as needed." 
But on Capitol Hill, Sen. Gor­don Humphrey, R-N.H., denounced the agreement as amounting to a "slow-motion­sellout" of the resistance fighters. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 12, 1988

page 8 
Election process needs improvement 
Why are people so afraid of being challenged? Why in a college environ­ment such as Saint Mary's are there people who quell debate and discourage discussion of controversy? Why is it that when people challenge established practices in an institution, their chal­lenge is immediately taken to be an at­tack on individuals and is immediately assumed to be of malicious intent? This has been the result of the recent Saint Mary's student body officer election. I am writing because of my concern that fair and just procedures have been nei­ther followed nor valued by members of our student government in the recent handling of the election. I find myself disillusioned by those who profess to be the leaders of our community because of the recent election. The elections have been over for about a month, and, now that the dust has settled and the emotions surrounding the events have faded, it seems an opportune time to examine exactly what happened and the implications of the events. Let me clarify what I mean by sketching out the sequence of events immediately fol­lowing the election. 
Ann Rucker 
guest column 

The voting completed, the counting of the ballots took place with 13 votes separating the Buch (13 ahead) and Reilly ticket. The Reilly ticket re­quested a recount, as provided for in the Student Government Manual. I ex­pected that, due to human error, the count might be off by two or three votes, at the most. As a result of the recount, 11 votes (one of these was found in an­other person's pile) were discovered for the Reilly ticket which had not been 
accounted for on the previous Wednes­day night. This narrowed the margin of victory for the Buch ticket to two votes to enter the runoff. 
My reaction upon discovering that 11 votes were found in the recount was one of shock. What shocked me the most was that the Election Commission was not aware on its first count of the ballots that 10 ballots were completely mis­sing. I am not an expert on balloting or counting procedures, however, com­mon sense tells me the necessity of keeping track of all the ballots, espe-
Doonesbury 

AS YOU KNOW, IA/c'V& NOlA/ t:N­
~PHA~II OFTH&CAM­PAIGN. 17'5 TIM& TO MOV.e TOWJW?S 7H& t:£N7CR.!
"'"'"';:..I,_ 
/,;:: 
cially when elections are as close as this one was. 
The first step in tallying the results would probably be to count the ballots and then to verify the number of ballots with the number of people who voted. It seems that this is an obvious proce­dure, and I was surprised to learn that this was not the procedure followed. Verifying the number of voters to bal­lots is how elections work all over the country. Imagine if, in our presidential elections, there was no way to ensure that there was one vote cast per voter. People would be up in arms because the opportunity for mistakes and cheat­ing would increase a thousand-fold. That is why this verification system is used, to prevent inaccuracy and to give credibility to the electoral process. If a person contemplating whether to vote or not knows in advance that his or her vote may or may not be accounted for in the tally of votes. who woulcl vnt<>? 
The question is one of credibility. People are, by their nature, both fal­lible and careless. That is why our sys­tem of government rests on a system of checks and balances (in this instance checking the voter list with the number of ballots) to ensure the integrity of the system against human error and human ambition by all parties involved in the voting process. 
After the recount, I telephoned the Election Commissioner concerning the procedure used to count the ballots. She was unfamiliar with this method of totaling the number of voters with the number of ballots and stated that this procedure was not used. I suggested that this would be a good way to ensure the accuracy of the vote totals, she said it was not a question of procedure but a question to be resolved only by a revote petition. The problem with verifying voters and ballots, as stated by the Election Commissioner, is that when a person's name is checked off no differentiation is made between their vote for student body officers and their respective vote for class officers. 
Further, she also stated that an un­known number (perhaps six or seven) of invalid ballots were thrown out after the initial counting. These invalid bal­lots consisted of ballots that a student had cast her vote on but were invalid because a poll worker had not ini­tialized it. Ballots that were blank but had been initialized by a poll worker were also invalid. These ballots were tossed in the garbage. How can a proper accounting take place when ballots are thrown away? A recount should take account of all ballots collected; if they are thrown away how can anyone be sure what was on those ballots and en­sure a proper recount? I understand that the ballots were retrieved from the garbage after my conversation with the Commissioner, however throwing out ballots should never have occurred in the first place. 

There were other problems with the election, one being that the poll workers, who were student government officials, were not properly versed on the election procedures and did not have it stressed to them the importance of following procedures to ensure ac­curacy in the election. This resulted in the failure of some to check IDs from every student. 
" ... student government felt that making an issue of unfair voting procedures was an embarrassment to the school and would make student government a mockery." 
The only recourse the Reilly ticket had was to call for a revote election and proceed to get the 250 (200 re­quired) signatures necessary to do so. During the time that they were gather­ing signatures, it was implied to them by student government officials that no revote would take place, regardless of the fact that they had not yet submitted neither their petition nor statement as to why they were requesting one. They were discouraged by various officials within student government and told by some of the other candidates in the stu­dent body election that, while it was legitimate to pursue a revote, they felt that making an issue of unfair voting procedures was an embarrassment to the school and would make student gov­ernment a mockery. This is a curious claim. Because the candidates saw that there were problems in the voting procedures and because they wanted to ensure an accurate counting of the bal­lots, they were told that this was slan­dering Saint Mary's. Doesn't Saint Mary's strive to uphold integrity, jus­tice and fairness in all other aspects of life? Why is it different when it comes 
~fJtV&I.OPW A t/5T OF IZ 
POt.ICY O&VIATION5 FRIJM 7H& l?eA6AN UNe. I /A/ANT YOU 7lJ OFFeR IT TO 7Hc PR£93 A5 &VI­!JfiNC& THAT I'M Nat/MY 0/A/N MAN. OF CIJUR5131 IFANYOF YOU 
AR.e QUOT&ll, IU 
P&NY &VeRYTHING. 
~ 
HOW 
5HOU/..IJIA/e 
REPRe5em 
OUFSUV&5, 5/R.? 
I 
AS TOP 
Alf?/35,you'RE 
AU7VP Atl?135. 
,,, /..... 
~';:: /)< "'" 

Garry Trudeau 
j7He TOP AilsHIT7H& 57Re&T.I 
GEORGe 15 H/5 OIAJN CAN I MAN NOW. 7HAT's 6&T A OFF 7Hc R&CORIJ, OF PH(JTO? 
ClJURS&. I 
Quote of the Day 
"The man who does not read good books has n o advantage over the man who can't read them." 
Mark Twain 
to this process? Isn't challenging the process a mark of integrity and active participation and not challenging the process a mark of irresponsibility and apathy? 
Would a candidate run in an election or would a student vote in an election where they knew in advance that there is no way to make sure the results were accurate? Of course not! How would you feel as a candidate and how do you feel as a student that the voting proce­dure did not have proper checks and balances? Is it fair? Some people thought that the Reilly ticket was act­ing purely out of self interest and were pursuing the issue because they were mad that they lost. Of course they were upset that they lost, but they were even more upset to discover that the fate of any woman running for office could hinge on such sloppy procedures as were used in this election. 
Isn't the whole point that when an election occurs at Saint Mary's, stu­dents expect an Election Commission and a student government that will work to ensure that their votes will count toward the candidate of their preference? The procedures followed in this election were sloppy, and student government took no action to ensure a fair election. My point in writing this article is so that students will know what happened in this election. I know that the Reilly ticket took and is still taking a lot of flack because they "dared" to ask questions about the in­stitution which supposedly encourages its students to ask questions and correct injustices. 
Something else can be done about this situation. Did anyone besides student government officials know that student government is rewriting the Saint Mary's Student Government Constitu­tion? It is a pretty important issue, yet, I only heard about it in connection with this election. It is almost completed, without any consultation with the stu­dents at Saint Mary's. Despite all this, it could provide an opportunity for stu­dent government to tighten the procedures concerning elections. The Reilly ticket has submitted a proposal to this effect. Only through tightening election procedures and ensuring fair elections, can student government ex­pect students to have faith that their votes will be counted ... properly. 
Ann Rucker is a senior at Saint Mary's College. 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 

Edllor-ln-ChJef........................... .............. Chris Murphy 
Business Mana(Jflr ................................... John Oxrider Mtmaging Edllor ...................... : ............ Chris Donnelly 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Advartislng Design Manager..................... Moly Kilen 
NeWS Ed/lor .............................. ; .............. Aegis Coocia 
AdvertJalng Manager ..................... Undll GoiiMchnldf News Edllor ....................................... Marl< MclaU(Ihlin 
Production Manager........................lllmedlel Shlila 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of VIewpoint Edllor .................................... Matt Slaughter Systems Managar.............................. u.t ~ Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Edllor ..........................................Marty Straaen Controller ............................................. Todd .......,_ the administration of either institution. The News is repo114<! as accurately and objectively as Accent Edllor ..............................................Beth Healy Graphic Arts Managar.............................~ Brune possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint M81)''11 Edllor .............................Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Phofo Edllor .........................................Michael Mol'an is available to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Accent 

Alternative social events 
prove successful 
TAMRYN J. ETTEN  sober students. They also con- 
accent writer  done "straight messages"  
about alcohol.  

Tuesday, April 12, 1988 

T
he Sorln College Mock Commencement. Mr. Stan­ford Contest and Keenan Rebuttal were "successful" social activities not only for the sponsoring dorms and participants--they were also successful for the Office of Al­cohol and Drug Education. 
Although not publicized as being sponsored by the Offlce of Alcohol and Drug Education, these social events were funded, In part. by the offlce as being non-drinking events. They are part of the objectives of the offlce to provide events on campus where alcohol Is not the main focus. 
"They can have (posters) of alcoholic beverages, but no alcohol can be present." said David Dannlson, director of the offlce. There have always been dorm traditions, but the office wants to use its funding to "stimulate or seed something that can grow." 
A campus wide picnic with performing bands, volleyball and other picnic events Is scheduled for this Sunday. Also scheduled for this month (the Friday of An Tostal) is "Dome­stock 88"--a campus band bash. 
Seminars to train RA's and seminars which deal with wo­men and alcohol Issues are In the workings for the fall. 
"We're not talking about chalk-talk, but real nuts and bolts alcohol Issues," said Dan­olson. "What's It like to con­front an alcohol problem face­to-face? What's it like to have an alcohol problem, or to have a friend with one?" 
The office has already begun a poster campaign to help publicize the office's existence and location. The controversial posters say that "drunkeness Isn't funny anymore" when an intoxicated person spoils a con­versation between a group of 
Dannison has already talked to every rector on campus con­cerning their ideas about alco­hol education. He has also talked to people who have faced alcohol Issues in their lives, such as recovering al­coholics and children of al­coholics. 
In addition, he has scheduled a seminar for adult children of alcoholics and dysfunctional families for Wednesday, April 
20. which will provide a forum for students to learn about the nature of alcoholism as a fam­ily disease. 
Dannison also wants to begin having 12 step, open Al­coholics Anonymous, AI-Anon, and Adult Children of Al­coholics meetings on campus so students could easily attend. 
This week and next. the of­fice is sponsoring a three part workshop which will give atten­dees a chance to participate in a question and answer forum as well as In role playing alco­hol incidence. 
The workshops will also serve to recruit and train people who are interested In becoming members of the Stu­dent Intervention Team, said Helen Janss, member of the team. 
The Student Intervention Team, which was formed last spring. is trained in providing alcohol Information to stu­dents, faculty or staff who are concerned about a friend's drinking. as well as performing Informal Interventions, she said. 
An informal alcohol Interven­tion is one In which the family member, friend or spouse per­forms the Intervention himself, after being given advice by a member of the Intervention team, Janss said. 
All In all, It looks like the Of­nee of Alcohol and Drug Educa­tion is fulfilling Its promises. 
SHEILA CULM accent writer 
J 
ust about everyone at Saint Mary's has seen flyers ad­vertising Club Tuesday, but how many people really know what it Is? Club Tuesday is a unique entertainment experi­ence offered once a month in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. 
The idea is patterned after the coffee houses of the 1960's which provided free entertain­ment in an informal atmo­sphere. The types of performers Club Tuesday offers range from bands to com­edians to folk guitarists. 
Club Tuesday's coordinator, Saint Mary's sophomore Janet Powers, is hoping to "increase 

Home sweet home 
page 9 

offers quality 
entertainment 
awareness" on campus about "this opportunity for free enter­tainment." "In the past it's been really hard to get people to do things on campus, but we're really excited with our success," said Powers. "So far it's the most successful on­campus activity sponsored by the Student Activities Board and we are interested In strengthening Its support even more." 
Student reaction has been great. according to Powers. "They especially like the night club atmosphere we set. They have also liked the performers we have provided." 
This year Club Tuesday has sponsored the Notre Dame band Sean and the Sun Kings, the comedian and acoustic rock guitarist Brian Huskey, the Irish folk guitarist John Ken­nedy and many others. Powers is concerned with finding quality entertainment and said, "better perfomers make It bet­ter for the students and their positive reaction makes It more rewarding for me." 
Tonight Club Tuesday will host the street singer Stephen Baird. He has appeared at over 75 colleges and universities across the country, entertaining people by singing. playing various instruments, telling jokes and manipulating pup­pets. Baird has also been fea­tured In various periodicals including Time, Newsweek and the New York Times. Powers hopes the turn out will be strong for tonight's 8:30 p.m. show. 
It's a community of nation­wide Importance which sup­ports thriving education, 
business and entertainment. Yet, this caring community also fosters a sense of com­raderie and pride. 
What about our sports and special events? Our football team, especially, who took us to the Cotton Bowl, our lnterhall sports, Book Store Basketball, Antostal and the Regatta. So much spirit flows throughout the Notre Dame community because of such activities. 
The weather, believe it or not. also adds Interest to our community. It forces the members to dress for all seasons, enlarging their wardrobes and, thus, making the campus more Interesting to observe. 
Sophistication in big cities? What is sophistica­tion? There's nothing so­phisticated in leading the nation in crime rates. What is sophisticated in having so many buildings --glass and steel and stone --so that a person cannot see the sky above? No, more and bigger doesn't necessarily mean better. 
So, maybe South Bend and Notre Dame aren't so boring after all. 
S
outh Bend and Notre Dame are so boring. There's nothing to do." Is that so? 
I'm tired of hearing what a drag it is to live in South Bend. Everyone wants to move on to the big time, someplace glamorous, someplace exotic, some­place sophisticated like New York. Chicago or Los An­geles. What do they have that we don't have? Pollu­tion, crowds. indifference, 


buildings and pavement, and an hour's commute to a patch of grass, dirt and crime. 
We are all taken by the stereotype of South Bend as a dull, backwards town. Most people don't realize that South Bend is oftentimes much larger than their own home towns. These people, who enjoy complaining about South Bend, probably had the same things said about their own home town. They now find it necessary to make their home town look good by ripping on their new home. 

As small and backwards as South Bend may seem, In­teresting people can always find plenty of interesting things to do. It's not the where that matters. 
What about the beautiful parks of South Bend? Howard Park, Leeper Park, St. Patrick's Park, Bendix Woods, and also the East Race --where you can go 
rafting. tubing. canoeing and kayaklng. play frisbee golf, or just enjoy the green scenery and the pleasure of taking a breath of air. 
You shouldn't have any time to even think about getting bored. Most of the people who say they are bored with South Bend can be found on any given night dancing. laughing and drink­ing at the fairly popular bars in the area. (These people, of course, are 21 or over.) 
What about our campus? 
Stephanie Snyder 
Less filling 


page 10 
Calloway 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Junior for­ward Rick Calloway said he had no choice but transfer from Indiana to national champion Kansas because he no longer fit into the Hoosiers' plans and playing there no longer was fun. 
Kansas announced Friday that the 6-foot-6 former Big Ten freshman of the year would 

Tuesday, April 12, 1988
The Observer 

leaves Indiana, becomes a 
transfer there for his remain­"He communicates with the was sent to the bench by Coach ing year of eligibility after players real well. He's a like­Bob Knight midway through having to sit out a season under able guy. He's a winner and a this past season. Mter he never NCAA rules. The announce­good coach," Calloway said in played in Indiana's first-round 
ment followed by a few hours an interview on WISH-TV. loss to Richmond in the NCAA Coach Larry Brown's state­"Mter a long hard thought, tourney, Calloway announced ment that he would remain at I decided Kansas would be the his intention to transfer. Kansas and not take the vacant best place for me to continue "A lot of reasons went into job at UCLA. my education and my athletic it. I lot of people think I'm 
Calloway played under career," he added. leaving just because Coach Brown during the 1985 U.S. Followjng a starring role benched me and I was mad be­Olympic Festival, and the co­during the Hoosiers' champion­cause I wasn't playing as much 
ach left a positive impression. ship drive a year ago, Calloway as I thought I should be 
Jayhawk 
playing. But that was not the main factor. That was part of it, but I wasn't happy there," he said. 
"I was told that Coach Knight mentioned ... before the Rich­mond game that I did not fit into the plans anymore," Cal­loway added. "I didn't think I really had a choice. If I don't fit into the plans,_I ask myself, 'Then why am I here?' " 
n.a.....Notn1 Deme office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent eent., .:cepts cluslfled edvertlling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. The a..... Selnt ~office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Centllf, accepts clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. DMdllne tor next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be pnlpllid, ell'-In person or by maiL The charge is 10 cents per five charw:tena per day. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n·2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Professors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to mal<e an appointment. 1()-5:30 7 day&Week 
CALL 237-1949 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n-7406 
I LOST/FOUND I 
Help! I lost a plastic LD. holder in N. dining hall or O'Shag Wed. Before Easter. Contained I.D. , Detex, Bank Card, Drivers' liscense, and cash. I don't care about the cash. If found, Please call 4515 or return to 740 P.E. It's important. 
LOST: BEIGE PAITERNED UBRELLA WITH DARK WOOD HANDLE. LOST SOMETIME THE WEEK BEFORE EASTER BREAK, PROBABLY SOME­WHERE IN O'SHAG. GREAT SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL LAUREN x3560 IF FOUND. 
CORONA KEYCHAIN & KEYS LOST AT SENIOR BAR OR BRIDGETS I THINK ...... PLEASE CALL PATTY AT 283·2807 IF FOUNDI!IIIIf 
BLUE NOTRE DAME WALLET LOST ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. I LOST MY IDS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY CLARE AT 283-2758 THANKS! 
LOST a steelblue (blackish) and gold bead bracelet somewhere between the ROTC and Aerospace and Engineering buildings about two weeks ago. It was a gift from my boyfriend and has extreme sentimental value. If found PLEASE have a heari and call 283-2660. REWARD. 
Found: one Marriage and Family text and one beginning Italian text near Juniper and Howard Sts. over Easter break. Call Kathy 2n-2944 
FOUND-·65 Gloves-Mittens at Lost and Found--Also many Glove and Mitten Pairs: Searls Tool! Claim today. 110 LaFortune Hall 
FOUND: High School Claaa Ring (girt'•) In Rockne Memorial Lock8r room. call 23&-6321. 
LOST! Hewlett-Packard 15C Ml around 5:15 3rd ftoor Fitz. please call 1 342 
LOST: BLUE ID HOLDER WITH CALI­FORNIA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND DETEX LOST ON MARCH 25 AT CHIPS IF FOUND PLIEASE CALL X2691 
FOR RENT 
FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL. LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK, CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI­ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS AND BRIDGETS. FURNISHED OR UN­FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA· TION CALL 277-7360 DAYS OR 272· 6181 EVENINGS. 
HAVE SUCCESSFUL 2ND INTER· VIEW? Rent Chgo 1 br 81111 Big •nut to llhalre. Sunny vlntag8 ctyd bldg. Hdwd nre, e81-ln kit, dw, -lk-tn cfata, bMrt •toreQ8, lndry. 112 blk to Lk Shr Dr, bu8, 2 blk to L tm, Wrtg, Fld. $650 Incl. ht. Mom Chgo .__ renew 511, 80 ct~ll Mrfyl 312-871-3397 (ND'80). 
................................................................ 
NICE FURNISHED 5 BEDROOM HOUSE, 112 MILE NORTH OF NO. GOOD AREA. 287-t13119. 
2 ROOMS AVAILABLIE FOR RENT IN CHICAGO --ROGERS PARK AREA $200 PER MONTH FOR MORE INFO CALL II 284-4351. 
2 BEDROOM 2 BATH APARTMENT 
FOR SUMMER SUB-LEASE, NEW 
COMPLEX,POOL $500 FURNISHED. 
CALL 271 
0764 EVENINGS. 
2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288-()955 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 288-0955-255-~o84 
Summer Rental; 2 Bd.; $172-tno. per per­son: Located at Ironwood and Edison; call 271-0559. 
7 BEDROOM FURNISHED HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYS­TEM.SUMMER OR FALL 272-8306 
NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
NICE ROOM TO SUBLEASE FOR THE SUMMER JUNE-AUGUST 31 KITCHEN,BATHROOM,LIVING ROOM,TV,ETC $125, CALL 288· 7929,VOLKER 
Great Location near cempu•. Large brick horne. Room tor 6 •tudenta. 2 bath•. Ready tor Fall occupancy. 
$6601no. plu• utllltle•-232-2366. 
Room tor 4 •tudenta. Near campu•. Ready tor Fall occupancy. $4401no. plu• utllltlea. 232-2366. 
3 BD. HOUSE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS FOR FALL '88. CALL 289-6539. 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, aris & cralls, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics, drama, pianoj>lay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, video, archery, year­book, woodworking, AN and typist. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 91 41779-9406. 
PLEASE SELL ME GRADUATION TICK­ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$! CALL MARC AT 288-7105 
ROOMMATE WANTED Summer only, male to •hare Campus· vi-two bedroom, $200-tno., lncludu air; Call Dorine at 272-1441. Drug uMr• not toler8tad. 
FOR SALE 
18 It True You can Buy Jeep• tor $44 through the U.S. government? G81 th• filet• today! can 1-312-742-1142, Ext. 7316. 
GOV'T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. (U Repair) BUY Propertle• tor back TAXES! Into, REPO Ll8tlng 1·518-459-3546 EXT H-794 24 Hr8. 
IBM PC?<T Model 086 
NOTRE DAME ROOM ON 2ND FL. LAFORTUNE. ALL NOOMC GIRLS IN­TERESTED IN TRYING OUT ARE WEL­COME 
10Mb diak, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1 ,600 price Includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:File, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
'82 Honda Nighthawk 650, EXCELLENT condrtion $1000. Call271 -()439, Laura or Jeff. 
FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, size 8. Call Jenn at 2975. 
Chevy Impala. X3282--Steve 
Rnlt Alliance'83-5spd,4dr,air,new ex­h&batt,clean,good cond-$1900tJest off­Dave3349 
TYPEWRITER-WORD PROCESSOR 
For S.le 
LOTS of GOODIES 
llln-.cl, piMM call Amy x1283 
TICKETS 
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­
TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 GRADUA­
TION TICKETS! I WILL PAY BIG $$ 
FOR THEM. CALL TIM 4oOO IF YOU 
HAVE EXTRA TICKETS. 
Family won't let me Graduate unless they can all see it. Please help mel! Call Jell 1246 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 8 GRADUATION TICKETS CALL JIM AT 271-9431 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TICKETS. $$$ CALL STEVE 2n-8932 
FREE TRIP TO HAWAII My grandparents (Ferdinand and Imelda) are flying in for graduation and need tick­ets.l'll pay BIG BUCKS and they'll take you back in their suitcase.Ca/1 Mark or Sean at 271-0200 
PERSONALS 
Laura, When we heard you were at the hospital, our hearts skipped a beat. too. We hope 
you feel better soon. Your corny Observer friends, JR & CD 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off ND Ave. 1Q-5:30, 7day&Week 
233-2342 
SPRING BREAK-OUT SALE! Apr. 15-17. Used Books 50-90% off. New books 30% off. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard off ND Ave. 10-5:30 7 day&' week. 233-2342 
AITENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
Bartles Imports BMWMAZDANW All JEnAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th 
...................................................... 
FEDERAL, STATE & CIVIL SERVICE Jobs $18,4 to $69,891. Immediate openings! call JOB LINE 1-518-459­3611 Ext. F 794, 24hr. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT· TEND. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­
TEND. 
································································ 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM. PRESENTATION BY KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO AT­TEND. 
COKE IS IT 
Chris White: Damn, He's cooL 
KATRINA -A thought for you on your birthday: Roses are red, Violets get plucked. II you go out with me, You're going to get ... HAVE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Love, Don 

KATE MONAHAN KATE MONAHAN I unplug my nose at youll -Guess who 
WANTED: female ROOMATE, North Chicago Subs,beginning in Aug. Call Mary Kay, # 3023 or 2999 
Llu O'Malley: So 80rryl The loMr 
Scott Bearby, congratulations on your en­gagement! When will the nuptials be cel­ebrated? I'll be looking for my invitation! 
MIKES Thanks for the great Lewis SYR Beth, Linda, Lisa, Maureen, Elaine, Amy, Susie, Catherine, Kathy & Kim 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE EASTER WEEKEND, IIIICOnd ad. 
from the home office in Columbus 
10. Say no to say no. 
9. Did we gel a goodnight kiss? 
8. I remember ... rt's bad even when it's supposed to be good. 
7. Where did he get those cheeseburger? 
6. Are we still in double digits, Patty? It was more comfortable before. Did you do something different this time? 
4. It's over a year away. That means the ring is pretty, and that's all . 
3. Those trash cans were there lor a $ # 0io& reason. 
2. Are they comfo1able, and are they fashionable? 
1. Brian, what is that on your shoulders and why don't you use it? 
to my secret admirer, I got your letter 2 days late! I can't stand secrets! Give me a calli K 
LUCY Thanks for a great SYR I Tell me how much you had to drink. Love, Googs 
Tam my and Kari Martinez . . . the two coolest chicks in the universe, and the HOnEST chearteaders N.D. never had­----J 
$$$$$$$$--EARN BIG MONEY THIS SUMMER --$$$$$$$ Young Males needed for highly sensijive experiments involving Gerbils and lightbulbs. For more INFO and interview call DON at 272­6542. 
RPA HEY YOU 
HEY YOU 
HEY YOU 
**** COME TO **** 
THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 
A MARATHON CONCERTA>ANCE ON 
FRIDAY APRIL 15. THERE WILL BE 5 
NO BANDS, 2 PURDUE BANDS, AND 
2 NATIONALLY RELEASED BANDS 
PLAYING FROM 6pm TO 3am AT 
STEPAN CENTER. THERE WILL BE 
PRIZES AND A ROTATING DOOR 
POLICY AS WELL. TICKETS ARE 
BEING SOLD DOOR TO DOOR & WILL 
BE AVAILABLE AT THE EVENT. ALL 
PROCEEDS ARE TO BENEFIT CYSTIC 
FIBROSIS. 
RPA ****** TAKE A WALK ON THE WILD SIDE GOTO THE GREAT ESCAPE OF 88 
James, Thanks for all the memories: champagne alter finals, East Race, a dip in the lake, lip-ups by Decio, Niagara Falls, New Year's Eve in Dallas, Valen­tine's Day & DC. I'm really looking for­ward to Senior Formal. Love, Me 
Coming soon... Gidget Goes To Chicago and stays with a VERMIN! 
TUCKER & ED(aka GILLIGAN & THE SKIPPER)HAD A BLAST AT THE SYR AND AZARS! EXCEPT 4 THE KETCHUP! WE WANT OUR TIES BACK, OR THE CHICKEN GETS IT! LOVE, T & R(aka GINGER & MARIANNE) 
JUST SAY uNOc. ugly nan on campu•--­
JIMMY ·I LIED -HERE IS YOUR 
ADIIIIIIIIIIIII 
GUESS WHO????? 
TO THE BEST LOOKING GIRL IN ENGINEERING, WHAT'S UP? DAN 
.. . .... .. ········•··. 
SUMMER JOBS FOR THE ENVIRON­MENT EARN $2500-$3500-PIRGa hiring summer staff In 60 cltle• Including Bo•ton, DC, Chicago, Berikeley, Boulder, Philadelphia, Seattle. Ca1118r opportunltle• al80 available. Call Kate at 1-800-622-2202. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT $3250 lor 13 w..b (S25GWk). For more lnlorm.tlon, come to Inter­vi-on Wadneaday, April 13th In the Ca1118r and Placement Service• Bldg. (He8burgh Library) at 10:00, 12:00, 2:00, 4:00 or 6:00. Po•ltlona available In Ohio, Indiana and Michigan. 
FOR SALE: A pair of Nordica ski boots, size 8. Call Jenn at 2975. 
RUN JESSE RUN! RUN JESSE RUN! WIN JESSE WIN! MOCK CONVENTION DELEGATES -VOTE FOR JESSE JACK· SON ON APRIL 13! FOR MORE INFO CALL JOHN X1531 
...CLUB DANKIS... PROUDLY SUP­PORTS PHIL MARZOLF (THE PHILDO)FOR UMOC 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH THE PROUD SPONSER OF THE PHIL MARZOLF (THE PHILDO) FOR UMOC 
SEMNIOR FORMAL TICKET FOR 
SALE 4 My date was killed by terrorl•t•, 80 he can't go... Will take Be•t Otter, Call Diane 27HI205 
ANTOSTAL, INNERTUBE WATER­POLO TOURNAMENT! Finally, It's back! Sign Your team up tuesday at 7:00pm in the Corby Room. 
Back for a return engagement The IRISH 
SPRING RUN Three and six mile runs this Saturday at 1 1 :00. Sign up at the NVA office to participate. 
SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLER PO 665 NO IN 
Theology Forum Member8: Tonight at 
10:00 p.m. In St. Edwards Hall Prot. Marik Searle will apeak on ''The What and the Why of Liturgical Studt""· 
Ride needed to Chicago (Midway), Fri April 15 call Chris x4544 
THE NOTRE DAME POM PON SQUAD, FOR MEALY THE DANCIN' IRISH, WANTS YOU! AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WILL BE HELD WEDNES­DAY, APRIL 13 FROM 6·7 IN THE 
CLUB TUESDAY 
CLUB TUESDAY 
TONIGHT 
CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT AT HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER TERRACE SMC, PROFES­SIONAL STREET SINGER STEPHEN BAIRD FROM BOSTON. 8:30-11:30 FREE, FREE EVERYONE WELCOME! 
WHA.T'S YOU FAVORITE COLOR? BLUE, I MEAN GREEN! HOLY GRAIL SMC CARROLL AUD. WED. APRIL 13 7,9,11 $1.50 
It's only a FLESH WOUND. What are you going to do? Bleed on me? 
COME SEE THE KNIGHTS WHO SAY NIE!I 
Where can you find Africn Swallows, Black Nights. Huge Snarrting Rabbits and off the wall laughter? HOLY GRAIL SMC Carroll Aud. WED. 7,9,1 1 $1.50. Bring your Shrubbery 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BILL HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BILL LOVE, MOM, DAD, OTIS & ANN 
I HAVE THE GREATEST FRIENDS IN THE WHOLE WORLD! Unfortunately, McDonalds may never be the same again. Maybe later we can go out and practice our ketchup basketball. Just don't let Monika near the Bingo game! Thanks for making my "Mcbirthday" so Mcspecial. I love you guys! Debbie 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY LAURA KIR­CHOFER!! 
IT'S THE DWEEBES' BIRTHDAY 
CALL LAURA AT 2891 AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
EQUESTRIAN TEAM-SGood job last weekend. Thanks lor making it a great one! KS NEED MONEY 77 IRISH GARDENS IS NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR WORKERS FOR THE 1988-1989 SCHOOL YEAR. ANYONE INTER­ESTED CAN PICK UP APPLICAnONS AT IG FROM 12:30 ·5:30. ALL APPLI­CANTS MUST BE ON WORK STUDY. 
KISSER IS COMING! 
KISSER IS COMING! 
KISSER IS COMING! 
BETH, YOU'RE OVER THE HILL! THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES; WHAT'S TODAY SUNDAY? WITHOUT THE C. THE DOOR TO HELL. SIR, DO YOU KNOW THIS DRINK? IN ONE HOUR, &PM. STEVE, WE'RE IN CHICAGO. 3 tO'S OR PROPER AT· TIRE. 21ST WHAT'S YOUR PROB­LEM? GET A JOBI TIGHT MINISKIRTS KILL ME HEY GOT ANY TOPS, .1 .157 WHO WEARS THE PANTS? WHAT A HELL OF A DOOR! HEY WAIT, THAT'S MY KID! THE PAPERWEIGHTS ARE CLOSED? NOW THIS IS ROMANTIC! HERE'S YOUR DINER MA'M, EXCUSE ME... BLAH! WANT A POP? NO THANKS I ALREADY HAVE ONE AND A MUM TOO. THE CHURCH WAS BUlLT ON INTERPERSONAL RELA­TIONS. WHAT'S TODAY TUESDAY? NO, IT'S MY BIRTHDAY II HAPPY BIRTHDAY! NICE PICTURE! 
LOVE, STEVE 4'1 2-88 
To the purebred pollack 
DIANNAW. 
Hey Hey You You Vicious rumors say you were seen in Chicago wreaking havoc in the hallways of the Hyatt, rolling around on the floor of your room, and getting picked up by 40 yr olds. We know that you wouldn't kick him out of bed for eating cookies, unless he wanted to go to the floor. There, I think that evens the score. Thanks for one to the best weekends of all time. You are SOMETH­ING ELSE!! JB 
for some, uglyness is a state of mind ... for nan, ugliness is a brutal reality ... nan sauer for UMOC... 
What happened at Sundays Shot Pariy? 1 )Chip and Molly running around without pants.2)Spring physically scarring and stripping every male 3)Kevin gloating over winning the"guess when Molly pukes"pooi.4)Mind Erasers.5)Chip and 
Molly trying to procreate while clothed.6)Seeing if Ann gets ac­tion.7)Bacchanalian orgy in yard. 
Top 5 UMOC Cadidates 1. Roommates from HELL 2. Your last SYR date-the star of Beauty & the Beast? 3. Your brother-so what rtyou look alike? 4. Your lab partner­an endangered species? VOTE UMOC 
VOTE UMOC VOTE UMOC LaFortune Info Booth Mon-Fri 7·9 
ROOMMATES WANTED FOR OFF­CAMPUS NEXT YEAR ... 2 NEEDED FOR CAMPUS VIEW (spot reserved) or 1 for ND APTS. Call Jirn-2035 or Kevin2033. 
CHRIS WHITE: 0' GOD HE'S BIG I 
Oh Lord, why can't I be CHRIS WHITE? 
GREAT HUNGER CLEANUP VOLUN­TEERS Remember to collect donations.First prize: United limo ticket, $45 value. Many other prizes. Try to get at least $30. THANKS SATURDAY, APRIL 16 
BJ 
Happy birthday and thanks for a great six months. I couldn't ask for a better guy. Love, me. 
WORK THIS SUMMER ON HILTON HEAD IS. WANTED 2 ROOMATES TO SHARE CONDO CALL ANNE 284-4314 
NO MOVERS NEEDED FOR NEW STU­DENT ORNIENTATION AT SAINT MARY'S WANTED ALL GUYS INTERESTED IN COMING BACK EARLY TO HELP MOVE IN NEW STUDENTS. CHANCE TO MEET NEW PEOPLE. WILL HAVE TO BE BACK ON WEDNESDAY, AU­GUST 17,1988. FOR MORE INFORMA­TION CONTACT CATHY BURKE AT 
284-5051 

Tuesday, April 12, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Bookstore whittles down to 256 
Booketore TourrunMnl 
Mondey'e Reeulle 
Stepan 1 

Disgruntled Rastafarians over Pa~ at Chips When We Lose by 9 Who's Next.. over The Mules by 11 Kearnsey Likes Lillie Boys over Sprocker Mel by 2 Butch & the Box Cars over 11 oth and 3rd Av­enue by 9 
Stepan 2 

Put the Power of the Upright over With Our­selves by 20 Sly & the Family Stone over We Couldn't Think of a Name by 4 The Groundskeapers of Busch Gardens over Gick, Mook, & 3 Others by 8 IKE over Elvis Died on the Can by 9 
Stepan 3 

The Team That Couldn't Think... over A Fat Man, A Gimp, & 3 Gods by 6 Check the Ice over Dick Vitale's One-eyed ... by 
LA Law over Slaughterhouse 5 by 2 The Maccabeas over Ollie North and... by 10 
Stepan 4 
Bayliss Boys over 5 Guys Who Bust Anything But The Net by 7 Conjunction Junction over Dangling Childhood, 23-21 Pop a Shot at Senior Bar over Fill It Up by 8 SCB Club over Swaggart, Bakker, Hart ... by 7 
Stepen 5 
Blair's Cousin over Return of the Sodom Clowns by 3 Air Daggers over A Senior With A Job 14 D-cubed T -squared over Maddog & the Meat Eating... by 12 Put It In the Hole Again, Chief over 5 Chips In Search Of... by 18 
Stepan 6 
Whubus & His 4 Friends over Greg Talbot & 4 Excuses by 7 Johnny Wad's Last Shot over Cool Guys on Asphalt by 16 Kiss of Death Tongue over Students of the Game by 14 4 Men & A Red-headed Stepchild over Legion of Doom by 10 
Booketore 9 Kernels over Slippery When Wet by 14 Corporate Raiders over Captains of the Zodiac by 18 Debi Gibson, You're Ours over 1988 Bookstore Champs by 17 LSP over Axe Wounds Fever by 1 0 
Booketore 10 LSP over Axe Wounds Fever... by 10 The Tors over Where Are You Bud? by 1 0 Sur1's Up over 4 Hogs & a Pig by 8 6 Guys That Can't Add over The Big Men From U State by 7 
Lyone 11 Return of the Fugitive Guys over The Free­Handed Evangelists by 11 5 Guys Who Follow Triangle ... over Spiffy Spoon Handles by 8 Red Red Wine over Reelers by 14 
A Bad Dude... over Jamaican Sinse by 11 
Lyon• 12 5 Guys & No Gi~s ...The ND Pa~ Ratio over It Doesn't Look Like A Taco by 14 The Michigan Connection over 5 Guys Who Swing Low by 7 For1eit over The Illegitimate Children ... by 3 Meet the Semo over Any Age Will Do by 7 
Tueaday'e Gemee 
Stepen 1 
4:00 -Spuds vs. Mind the Gap 
4:45 -The Explosive Packages ... vs. Society of Men Enginears 
5:30 -A SMC Chick, A Doormat.. vs. Bumblebees 
6:15 -Sons of 211 vs. Skoad Men 
. Stepen 2 
4:00 -Kinkoids vs. Madison Avenue Hoobers 
4:45 -Plug Players vs. We Always Play in the Rain 
5:30 ·One Spud, 3 Saints ... vs. The MBA's 
6:15 -The Skirts vs. The Wedige, A Hooter ... 

Stepen 3 
4:00 -5 Slamma Jamma vs. Faculty Jokes 
4:45 -Fire Digger vs. The Package... 
5:30 -The Watusi vs. 5 Guys Who Want... 
6:15 -Censored vs. Does Anyone Want To Play ... 
Stepen 4 
4:00 -Groover's Revenge vs. Do You Know Anything.. 
4:45 -Look For Us vs. Jack Daniel's All-Stars 
5:30 -Shaggy & the Mystery Machine vs. The Magnanimous Chubbies 
6:15 -Get Out 01 My Face vs. Uncle Fester & the Chiefs 
Stepen 5 
4:00 -Long On The Yen vs. Katarina Witt ... 
4:45 -Transport Phenomena vs. Tofu's Last Gig 
5:30 -Lions of the ... The All Bridget 
6:15 -Malicious Prosecution vs. A Couple 01 Hacks 
Stepen 6 
4:00 ·Carver High vs. 4 Coach Potatoes 
4:45 -Stationary Motion vs. Dukes of Slam 
5:30 -We're Pathetic So You ... vs. Mike Jones & 4 Guys 
6:15 -St. Michael's Shrinks Your Underwear vs. Orange Blossom Special 
Stepen 7 
6:15 -3Bimbos& the Horses ... vs. The llenerant Nomads... 
Boolultore I 
4:00 -4 RA's &... vs. Stony Island Ave... 
4:45 -Emotionally Exhausted va. Jamaican Bobsledders 
5:30 -The Giving Trea vs. Hahn's Funeral Home 
6:15 -Chicken Heeds vs. All The President's Men II 
Bookatore10 
4:00 -AFROTC vs. Floor Laimbear 
4:45 -The Fun Bunch vs. Tequila Whrte Lighting 
5:30 -Wet Armadillos vs. Murph & the Magic Tones 
6:15 -The New Tumbleweads vs. Hutch's love Walrus 
Lyon• 11 
4:00 -Tank & the Fun Boys vs. Watering Hole 
4:45 ·Vermin Cong vs. Boinkers 
5:30 -Jeff & His Roommates vs. SOS 
6:15 -Prime Time Scots vs. Still Friends ol Chris Nanni 
Lyon• 12 
4:00 -The Mad latin Lover ... vs. Swaggert, Reagan & 3 Other Guys ... 
4:45 ·Solomon's Soccer Movie Team vs. II We Score You Stink 
5:30 -Spldey's Netters vs. The Disturbed 
6:15 -The Clllzena vs. Big Plans 

Streaking Sandy Lyle gets jacket, respect 


Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga --Sandy Lyle had this one last chore to do before departing Augusta. 
"I've got to stop by the (Augusta National Golf) Club this afternoon and pick up my blazer," he said Monday. 
It's a green one, the one he had in mind when he prowled through Augusta's shopping malls a week ago, the one he won in such dramatic fashion Sunday with a last-hole birdie putt on the 18th hole at Augusta National. 
It's the famed green jacket that goes to the winner of the Masters. 
Lyle, a low-key Scot, is the first British subject qualified to wear that famous blazer. He donned one immediately after signing the scorecard that made him the 52nd Masters champion Sunday. 
He wore it most of the night. But it wasn't his. 
"I wore a members' jacket last night at a party at the club," Lyle said. 
"About 70 members were there. I had a few drinks with <Masters chairman) Hord Har­din. Didn't get out until about 11:30," he said. 
Lyle's personal jacket was due to be acquired later Mon­day. 
"I get to keep it, take it with me, sport it around for a year," Lyle said. "After that, it stays at the club." 
With it goes one of the most famous titles in sports, the label "Masters champion." That combines with his 1985 British Open crown and cur­rent hot streak to place Lyle at the the peak of world golf. 
Does it place him ahead of Australian Greg Norman of Australia and Seve Ballesteros of Spain as golf's leading player? 
"It's a game," Sandy said with a shrug. "I've never thought of myself as being ahead of them. Everyone has streaks where they're playing well. I'm just having one right now." 
His current streak is the most productive in at least three seasons on the American PGA tour. He's now won two tourna­ments in a row, Greensboro and the Masters, and is the first player to accomplish consecu­tive triumphs since West Ger­man Bernhard Langer did it in 1985. 
Lyle now goes to Hilton Head Island, S.C. for this week's Her­itage Classic . 


\ " ' 
\ 


Sandy Lyle celebrates a sunken putt during the Masters Championships last weekend. After win­ning the prestigious Grand Slam tournament, Lyle 
the key. Stah~ scored 12 pomts and led his squad's
Bookstorefr~m 
t' d ~ relentless second half attack. 
16

con mue rom page "It was a much more physi-Conjunction, Junc~ion, cal game than we expected," What's Your Function? he said. "You get banged snipped Dangling Childhood in around every time you try to a tightly fought contest, 23-21, go inside. But we feel pretty on Tom Stahl's 16-foot jumper good about our chances if we 
dee,

·(1.:()~ ORIGINAL PIZZA ~~~ AND FAMILY RESTAURANT 
SENIORS! 
Mark your calendars on May 2nd Class Dinner 6:30-8:00 pm. 
M-TH 
~ 
$2.00 OFF 
PITCHERS 
EWING AVE. 



Tuesday, April 12, 1988
Sports Briefs 
Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a double-elimination squash tournament. Anyone in­terested in playing in the international-ball tourn­ament should sign up in the NVA office by 5 p.m. on Tuesday. -The Observer 
An Tostal Water Polo tournamentsign-ups will be Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Corby room at LaFortune. There will be a 32-team limit. Teams must pay a $5 registration fee. Any questions should be directed to Barb at 289-5920. -The Observer 

The women's rugby team will have practice on Tuesday, April12, at p.m. at the Loftus Center. Any questions should be directed to Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. The women's rugby team also is looking for someone to help coach the team. Anyone interested in helping coach the team who has playing or coaching experience also should call Lauren at x3560 or Kathy at x4067. -The Observer 
Andy Heck, co-captain of the Notre Dame football team, will be Rick Rietbrock's guest tonight on WVFI's Speaking of Sports. Call 239-6400 from 10-11 with questions or comments. -The Observer 

The ND tennis team defeated Bradley 8-1 on Sunday in its final meet of the Southern Illinois Invitational. The Irish now hold a 15-10 record on the season. -The Observer 
IrishSpringRunsarescheduledforSaturday, April 16, at 11 a.m. Paricipants can pay a $4 registration fee at the NVA office or can pay $5 the day of the event. The Irish Spring Runs will include both a three-mile run and a six-mile run. The race starts west of Stepan Center, and t-shirts and door prizes will be given out to participants. -The Obser­ver 
SMC track takes 6th 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
Injuries plagued the Saint Mary's varsity track team as the loss of two key players con­tributed to a sixth place finish at the Manchester Invitational last Saturday. 
Sophomore Margaret Cushwa, who sprained her ankle during practice last week, joined injured teammate freshman Nicole Hill on the sidelines. Both runners are likely to be out for the remainder of the season leaving the team with only eight contenders. 
First place honors went to Alma College as they recorded 115 points. Manchester placed second in its own invitational with 57 points followed by Marion with 27 points, Goshen with 19 points, Notre Dame with 17 points and SMC with 13 points. 
The 1600 meter relay team of Kelly Streit, Maggie Daday, Mary Cassidy and Cathy Ken­nedy finished second with a time of 4:24.9. 
"I was very pleased with the relay team's performance," said head coach Larry Szcec­howski, "Their time was only 
1.5 seconds off of the school record which shows just how much they have improved." 
Freshman Kelly Streit came in third in the 100 meter dash with a time of 13.4 seconds. She also placed sixth in the 200 me­ter dash with a time only 3 seconds off of the school record. 
Maggie Daday placed third in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of 1:16.1. Jeanette O'Neil captured fourth place with a throw of 91.4 meters in the javelin while junior Becki Davis jumped 30 feet, 4 inches to record a fifth place finish in the triple jump. 
"Overall, we are steadily im­proving," said Szcechowski. 

Lacrosse 
tied the game up and I knew continued from page 16 that a big save would get the 
team going," McQuillan said. Dame defense let Kenyon back in the game with three consecu­The lacrosse team will fi­tive goals that tied the score at nally get to play in Edward J. five. "Moose" Krause Stadium 
Wednesday night at 6:30 when But McQuillan and the they host Lake Forest. The 
defense then stiffened. Al­Irish beat the Foresters 11-6 
though they gave up a goal in earlier this season. 
the fourth to send the game into Team members say they are overtime, the defense shut excited to play in the stadium down Kenyon the rest of the because of the quality of the way behind several big saves field and seating capability for by McQuillan, who finished fans. The first two home games 
with 14 stops. 
were played on Alumni Field "It seemed like everyone because of conflicting events. 
• 
)f)HILOSOPHY ~OLITICS & rncONOMICS 

A CONCENTRATION FOK STUDENTS MAJORING IN PHILOSOPHY. GOVERNMENT, OR ECONOMICS DEALING WITH THOSE AREAS IN WHICH THE THREE DISCIPLINES OVERLAP THE PROGRAM IS DESIGNED TO FOSTER DISCIPLINED INTELLECTUAL DEBATE AND INTERCHANGE AMONG THEORETICALLY REFLECTIVE STUDENTS AND FACULTY IN THE TtiREE DISCIPLINES. 
FOR DETAILS SEE: PROF. E. A. GOERNER, 434 DEClO (239-7383 or 233-1647) PROF. E. LORENZ, 415 DEClO (239-7590) PROF L. J ROOS, 424 DEClO (239-7556) PROF. D. O'CONNOR. 355 DEClO (239-7281 or 288-5443) PROF. C. WILBER, 411 DEClO (239-5168) 
CONSULT ONE OF THE PROFESSORS LISTED ABOVE WELL BEFORE PRE-REGISTRATION. DEMJ.ND OFTEN EXCEEDS THE PLACES AVAILABLE. 
Chicago goalie Darren Pang breces for a collision 
rles with the Blackhawk& 3-1 as the teams return 
with teammate Wayne Presley and St. Louis' Brian 
to St. Louis for game five. 

Sutter. The Blues lead their divisional playoff se-
Hockey playoffs continue 

Associated Press 
The Washington Capitals are having another playoff nightmare. 
Twice in the last three years, the Capitals were one game away from winning a playoff series. Both times, they lost three straight and were eliminated. 
The Capitals are on the verge of losing another playoff series this year after blowing a three­goal, third-period lead in Game 4 against Philadelphia. The Flyers now lead the best-of­seven series 3-1. 
"We have to try to rebound from this," Washington right wing Mike Gartner said after the Capitals' 5-4 overtime loss. "I'm upset and disappointed. We are in a must-win situation again." 
Game 5 will be played Tues­day at the Capital Centre in Landover, Md. In other playoff games, it's New Jersey at the New York Islanders, Hartford at Montreal, Buffalo at Boston, Toronto at Detroit, Chicago at St. Louis, Winnipeg at Edmon­ton and Los Angeles at Cal­gary. 
Montreal, Detroit, St. Louis, Edmonton and Calgary lead their series 3-1. The Boston-Buffalo and New Jersey-New York series are tied at 2-2. 
Chicago-St. Louis 
The Blues have the Black­hawks on the ropes, but they're not counting them out. 
"They're a heck of a hockey team and with Denis Savard on the ice, Chicago has proven it can come back," St. Louis goalie Greg Millen said after the Blues edged the Black­hawks 6-5 Sunday. 
But Chicago wing Duane Sut­ter said "unless we start playing aggressive hockey and quit taking a lot of bad penalties, we'll be heading back for our homes." 
Winnipeg-Edmonton 
The Jets have tried to in­
timidate the Oilers, but the 
strategy has backfired. 
"They're going to try to in­timidate guys like Jari (Kurri), but he's been around for a long time and has won Stanley Cup rings," Edmonton star Wayne Gretzky said after the Oilers rallied to win Game 4 of the Smythe series 5-3. 
Kurri's second goal of the game came while Paul MacLean was serving a five­minute penalty for slashing him. 
Toronto-Detroit 

Toronto fans were so upset by the Maple Leaf's 8-0 loss in Game 4 that they threw gar­bage on the ice. 
Buffalo-Boston 

Both coaches questioned the work of referee Bill McCreary in Game 3, and Boston's Terry O'Reilly pounded on the door of the officials' locker room after the Bruins' 6-5 overtime loss in Game 4. 
"I hate to lose a game on a referee's mistake and that's what that was," said O'Reilly, referring to a penalty called on Boston's Glen Wesley five minutes into overtime. 
Hartford-Montreal 

The Whalers are trying to be­come the third team in NHL history to win a playoff series after trailing 3-0. Hartford staved off elimination night with a come-from-behind 7-5 victory. 
The only teams to come !back from a 3-0 deficit in the playoffs were the 1975 Islanders and the 1942 Maple Leafs. 
Los Angeles-Calgary 

Calgary took command in the series with a 7-3 victory Sunday night. 
-

Tuesday, April 12, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Women's soccer awaits varsity status 

The Women's Soccer Club made its farewell ap­pearance on the club level last weekend with a second-place finish in its own six-team tourney. 
The Irish women's soccer program will become a varsity sport beginning in the fall under the di­rection of men's coach Dennis Grace. The second­place showing left returning team members opti­mistic about the fall season. 
"We're pretty excited," Club Secretary Jane Tit­terton said. "We're excited about going to varsity status because that shows a lot of improvement. We think we can do well." 
over Purdue Saturday. The win gave the Irish a 2-1 ledger for the spring season. 
Notre Dame rallied from a 18-~ deficit in the second half to capture the win. 
The Irish meet the West Side Condors in Chicago and travel to Kalamazoo College for a pair of games this weekend. 
After sweeping a doubleheader from Purdue to open its season, the Women's Softball Club dropped five of six games last we~k. 
Liddy led the Irish with three hits in the first game and Jane Daly added two hits in the nightcap. 
Saint Mary's blanked the Irish 10-0 in the first game of a doubleheader but Notre Dame rallied to win the second contest 8-6 in extra innings. The Irish trailed 6-0 before tying the game at 6-6 in the sixth inning. Meg Fay hit a three-run homer during 
that rally. That Irish streak didn't last long as McHenry College swept two games from them Saturday by scores of 2-0 and 5-1. Once again, the Irish bats went silent in the losses. 
The Irish downed Purdue 4-2 in the opening round and then turned back Loyola 2-0. Notre Dame lost in the championship round to Marquette 2-0. 
"This was definitely a strong tournament for us," Titterton said. "The defense was incredible and the offense was really working against Purdue. We're really happy.'' 
Michelle Spring, Kate Titterton, Karen Logsdon and Kathy Dominick played their final game for the Irish against Marquette. 
The Rugby Ch.tb avenged its only defeat of the fall season with a 20-18 come-from-behind victory 
Greg Guffey Club Corner .. 

The Irish now stand 3-5 for the spring campaign and host Saint Joseph's today at 3:15 at Normain Field in Mishawaka. They host Purdue-Calumet 
Wednesday and face Lake College and McHenry College on the road this weekend. St. Joseph's swept a doubleheader from Notre Dame by scores of 3-1 and 15-8 last week. Marie 
The Equestrian Club placed third in a field of 10 teams in its own show last weekend. 
Paul Kelly qualified for regional competition with a second-place finish over the fences in the ad­vanced division. The regionals will be Saturday at Purdue. In other results, Kerry Sheedy won two firsts in the novice division and Theresa Weithman finished second. Larissa Wenning was first in begin­ning, while Margie Guido took second over the fences in novice . 
In a show at Ball State recently, Peggy Sullivan took first in the intermediate division and Paul Kelly was second over the fences in advanced. 
Balks becoming the rule in baseball, not the exception 
Associated Press been committed. In the Na­Tchaikovsky's biggest num­pitchers come to a "discer­Some pitchers are so worried 
tional League, which ac­bers." nable" stop in their set position that they've gone to full win­
Take me out to the balkgame. counted for 217 balks in 1987, Fittingly, Tchaikovsky's and do not shuffle their feet. dups with runners on third
This year, the talk is balk in there have been 22 compared Symphony No. 6 was entitled That's been the rule, and um­base, rather than risk going to 
the big leagues. They're to 13 last year. "Pathetique." pires called it that way during a set and balking home a run,everywhere --73 in 73 games And more are coming. "It's bad for the game of spring training. Many players, as Baltimore's Mike Boddicker so far --and the balk-a-thon "Gentlemen, this is the way baseball," Kansas City however, guessed the crack­
did twice during the weekend. 

shows no sign of slowing down. it's going to be," AL umpire manager John Wathan said down would stop when the reg­Those windups also have more"Are you telling me this was Larry Barnett said. "If they after a five-balk affair. "I don't 
ular season started. runners trying to steal home,the intent of the thing, turning continue to abuse the rule, we'll like it at all. It could be a Guess again. 
as Minnesota's Dan Gladden

this into a farce?" ranted Mil­continue to see what hap­mess." "It's definitely frustrating," did successfully Friday night. waukee Brewers president Bud pened." It already is. Pitchers are said Oakland pitcher Bob Selig, who saw his team called paranoid, managers are Welch, called for three balks Speedsters such as Vincefor an American League­Barnett's crew detected six moaning and fans are getting Sunday. "It plays with your Coleman, Tim Raines andrecord five balks Sunday. in the Milwaukee-New York fed up with the constant inter­mind." Rickey Henderson are also
Don't worry, Bud. Your club Yankees game. Umpire Rocky ruptions. Milwaukee's Ted Higuera, taking advantage, timing a has plenty of company. At this Roe saw Balk No. 6 and 
who committed two balks last pitcher's set position and get­
rate, last year's record of 356 dramatically waved his arms, Umpires, meanwhile, are season, was also flagged three ting an even bigger jump. balks will be broken next prompting Brewers manager doing their jobs. AL president times Sunday. The change in requiring a full month. Tom Trebelhorn to say: "If Bobby Brown and National "This year, balks are a big stop is sudden. Many pitchers 
In the AL, where six balks you're going to call a balk, call League President Bary Giam­problem for pitchers," Higuera don't mind too much, as long were called in the first week it. But he put on a show, like mati instructed their men in said. "It's hard to concentrate. as the balk calls don't come at
last season, an absurd 51 have he was finishing one of blue this year to make sure I don't understand it." crucial times. 
Each onebad to nracur~e, Againandagain. the big test came. each athlete was ready. Striving for his personal best. 
That's how it Is with And that's how it Is ""'"'""'' formofcom­
DetJltion-:sta:nda rdized 
your best. you prepare with the aplan. 
students are able to 
the most. year after year. Fact is. Kaplan prepa­ration has helped over one 
. ' millionstudentsontothe 
· · track,givingthem 
skillsand confidence finish strong. Ifyou're facing the SAT. 
· ACT. GMAT, GRE. LSAT. MCAT, or professional tests like the BarorCPA exams. call Stanley H. 
:•'· .. Kaplan. Theseathletes had 
·· ,•; traintobeattheircom­··• · petition. Maybe there's a ...,_ _.11111111",''''••·•· lesson initforyou. 
I 717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH !)END, IN 46637 PI-lONE 219/272-4135 

SIGN UP BEFORE YOU GO HOME TO RESERVE SPACE FOR YOUR FALL LSAT CLASS IN SOUTH BEND! 
INDEPENDENT SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS! 
Pesavento. "He's been a real ternoon.
Baseball 

playmaker for us. The greatest "I think they're (the Irish) a continued from page 16 thing about him is that he little bit tired," Murphy said. knows he has to get better." "But I think they will be ready 
games, the best ratio of any col­Chris Flynn continued his hot to play against Purdue. It
lege team in the country. hitting with six hits and his doesn't take much to get this When Xavier hit the ball, the fourth and fifth home runs of team ready. Year in and year
Irish defense responded. They the season. Tim Hutson nailed out Purdue always plays Notre committed only four errors his ninth homer of the year and Dame tough." during the series and their .964 was a perfect 4-of-4 in the fielding percentage is among fourth game of the series. Hut­the 10 best in the country. son is showing no signs of let­
With the pitching and defense ting up on his torrid pace. in order, the big bats came "In game three, Tim was through for Murphy. Pat down a little bit," Murphy said. Pesavento tallied seven hits in­"He made up his mind to be cluding his first homer of the selective and hit his pitch." season in the first game. The Irish have no-time to 
For tilt facts call >"ur local Red Cross. or write 

"He can hurt a team in so savor the sweep of Xavier as 
AIDS 
+
Arntrican Red Cross l:rR: 
Y.ashlngron. OC 20006

many ways," Murphy said of they travel to Purdue this af-


We need your help to... 
" Make sophomore year more than just our second year at Notre Dame." 
We need people to fill the following positions: 
-Advisory Council Reps. -Publicity Commissioner -Social Commissioner -Major Events Commissioner -Service Project Commissioner -Senate Coordinator Commissioner -Religious Activities Commissioner -Academic Commissioner 
Applications & Job Descriptions are available in the Student Government Secretary's Office-2nd floor LaFortune from A I 8 -I 12. 




r Tuesday, April 12, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
Offensive line tries to find right combination 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's offensive line was so effective last season that it almost took over the glamour role of the team. 
Fifth-year seniors Tom Freeman, Chuck Lanza, Tom Rehder and Byron Spruell helped carry the Irish to wins over Southern Cal, Boston Col­lege and Navy. The line was named the most valuable player by CBS in the USC game. The experienced unit commanded so much respect that Lanza and Spruell were named the team's co-captains. 
But now it's back to square one for the Notre Dame offen­sive line. With the four seniors all gone, the unit is undergoing a spring of adjustment. 
"They (the seniors) set an example for us," said offensive line coach Tony Yelovich. "What we have to do now is improve day in and day out. 
"It's learning the system and fundamentals," Yelovich con­tinued. "It'll be a gradual process. Each day goals are set to improve the fundamental areas, and we strive to improve every day in those areas." 
A couple of changes within the line, have drawn the most attention this spring. Junior Andy Heck, last year's starter at tight end, was moved to tackle at the beginning of the spring drills. He now is prac­ticing at both tackle and tight end. 
In another switch, sopho­more Tim Grunhard, who played guard last fall, has been working at center this spring. 
"It's still uncertain what's transpiring with Heck," said Yelovich. "We're hoping by the latter part of this week to put together an entire unit. 
"Grunhard's going through a transition period," Yelovich continued. "There's a good pos­sibility it could be a permanent move." 
The sophomore from Chicago, Ill., worked as the team's long snapper last year, and he practiced some at cen­ter early last season when Lanza was injured. 
"I just have to adjust to working with the guards at cen­ter rather than being a guard, which means I have to work on my steps and lose a couple of pounds to improve my quick­ness," said Grunhard. "It really doesn't matter to me what position I play as long as I can help the team. I feel com­fortable at both positions. 
"Right now we have some really good players who are younger and really need the time to develop," Grunhard continued. "They're young, but they really work hard and are dedicated. They're not quite sure of their assignments now, but the technique will come if they keep that intensity." 
Mike Heldt and Dom Prin­zivalli also have been working out at center for the Irish this spring. 
The rest of the line features many players competing for jobs, but nobody has secured a starting position. 

"Every position is still open for an individual to accept the challenge," said Yelovich. "We'll be closer to deciding after the next several scrim­mages we have set up." 
Contenders for starting spots include returning starter Jeff Pearson, junior Marty Lippin­cott, sophomores Dean Brown and Ted Healy and freshmen Ryan Mihalko, Peter Rausch, Tim Ryan and Winston Sandri. 

Mihalko and Ryan both are new to the offensive line. Mihalko was a fullback last season, while Ryan played linebacker. 
Yelovich has had players switching between guard and tackle during the scrimmages in hopes of finding the lineup that will work most effectively. 
"We're looking to see who's going to blend in," said Yelovich. "We are moving them around to see how an in­dividual would adapt to a par­ticular position, whether he's better in the side as a guard or as a tackle or center." 
You 




Dual Floppy Drive suggested retail price: $1599 Special Student Price: 
$949 

Single Floppy with Special Student Price:
Hard Disk suggested retail price: $2199 $1249 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-159 Enhanced PC is IBM PC®-compatible and faster than the IBM 

Demo Lab 9-12 M-F PCIXT®. It's everything you'd expect in a powerful, 
Room 113 Computing Center flexible, expandable PC. And we're throwing in a 
x7689 few extras ... 
or Fourway Computer Prod.
Now, the Z-159 Enhanced PC can be yours at a great Brad Koch 277-7720
student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Zenith data systems
Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­
stration, and match you up with the right software and 


data 
peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you 
systems
from college to career! 

THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
So stop by today. And see the Z-159 Enhanced PC © 1987, Zenith Data Systems
for yourself. See you soon! 

Tuesday, April 12, 1988 The Observer 
page 15 

Campus The Daily Crossword 
Tuesday 
12 p.m.: Brown Bag Lunch, Kellogg Institute and the Department of Anthropology Seminar, "Notes on Contemporary Brazil: Political and Economic Aspects," by Vera Barrouin Machado, Head of Cultural Section, Brazilian Embassy, Wash­ington, D.C., Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 2:20-3:35 p.m.: Mathematics Department's Short Course on "Maximal Subgroups and Representation Theory," by Gary Seitz Kenna, University of Oregon and Visiting Kenna Professor, classes held Tuesdays and Thursdays, today through May 5, Room 300 Computing Center and Mathematics Building. 3 p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, Part II, "Lysosomal Enzymes Phosphoryla­tion," by Professor Stuart Kornfeld, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
3:30 p.m.: Reilly Lectureship in Chemical Engineering, "The Utility of Asymptotic Approximations for Speeding the Design of Separations Processes," by Professor Edwin Lightfoot, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 4:30p.m.: College of Science 1988 Nieuwland Lecture in Biological Sciences, Part III, "Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transformation Induced In Vitro and in the Embryo," by Professor Elizabeth Hay, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 7 p.m.: WVFI News Team covers Notre Dame '88 Mock Convention with live reports and political commentary, WVFI-AM 640. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "11 x 14" 1976, 83 minutes, directed by James Benning, USA, Annenberg Auditorium. 7 p.m.: "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Profile Form," by Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 7-9 p.m.: National Council on Alcoholism Intervention Workshop, today, April18 and 19, sponsored by SIT and Office of Alcohol Education, Center for Social Concerns. 7:30p.m.: Lecture, Frank Lloyd Wright's Falling Water, by Len Morse-Fortier, sponsored by Student Civil Engineers, 303 Cushing Hall of Engineering. 8 p.m.: College of Science Distinguished Scholars Lecture, "The Anaerobic and Mitochondrion Enigma," by Professor Howard Saz, Notre Dame, Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Dirty, Mean, and Nasty," 1975, color, 120 minutes, directed by Ettore Scola, Italy, Annenberg Auditorium. 11 p.m.: WVFI News Team covers Notre Dame '88 Mock Convention with live reports and political commentary, WVFI-AM 640. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
French Bread Pizza Make-Your-Own-Burrito Egg Foo Yong To Round Beef 
Saint Mary's 
BBQ Ribs Cheese Enchilada Fettucini Carbonara Deli Bar 

ACROSS 1 Eur. range 5 Dismantle 
10 -Jima 13 Liquid containers 15 City on the 
Nile 16 Arrest 17 Shipshape 19 Comp. pt. 20 Football team 21 Frayed 23 Ms Jillian 24 Table mats 26 Tool 30 Annoy 31 Relative 32 Less irrational 33 Auditor: abbr. 36 Naked 40 Cheering word 41 More accurate 42 Anatomical 
network 43 Arab bigwigs 45 Stages 47 Picture takers '£, 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 49 --Magnon 
All Rights Reserved 
man 50 Decorate 51 Divided in a 14 -eclipse 
way 18 Lairs 56 Big -22 Pacino and 57 Puzzled Capp 60 -de France 24 Contributor 61 Sign of grief 25 A Cassini 62 Bizarre 26 Twosome 63 Fr. marshal 27 Moon goddess 64 Baker's need 28 Rich 65 Beach sight 29 Biblical verb 
ending 
DOWN 30 Wins in 1 Rara -chess 2 Fuzz 32 Disparaging 3 Geraldine or remarks 
Patti 34 Rose or 4 Kind of gin Rozelle 5 Disdain 35 God of war 6 Tin lizzies 37 Infinite 7 Free (of) time 8 Metric 38 Territory 
measure 39 -Ia Ia 9 Doorway 44 Mal de ­
drape 45 Malayan boat 10 Laughing 46 A famous 11 Squander Lena 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed r Side 

A G E R S 0 N U S S 0 R E V A S 

E 
T R I M 
P A L 0 M I N 0 E 0 I T 0 R 
IIIIIIIV I C E NAPERY ROMANY THANEIIIIII E N 0 L A L 0 U 0 SIT E W S E T R A N G E 0 R E TROT IDEE BEILIE 
IIIIIIIR AVE 0 C A BIL E 0 M A R I N E M 0 N 0111111 
S I L K I M A M N I A T A A 8 E L N 0 N E A T T A R S I 0 E G A E L S E A L S 
04112188  
47 CoJtage 48 An Astalre 49 Loaf part 51 Alphabet list 52 Fruit drinks 53 Movie manse  54 55 58 59  Emerald Isle Colored Society page word Driving org.  

Gary Larson 

()(JR M"W V.P.-Et£cr H/15 /I£MIN/JeP me CHill~ THIIT II M»''INIITKJN VOTE 
15 NOT 8/N/JfNG (J#t£55 me v.P. MhtiiNee ~ IN II'Tiffl{)f/NCE .•. \ 
~-­
WH€W/!A%5 
fMRTICIPIITORY
AYf.f 
fl€MOCR/lCY f(IT II t.UMf IN YGVR 7HRC¥lr; WO .? 



"look -I never would have married him In the first place, but the jerk used a cattle prod." 
·~~~~~···~·······~················##################################################################···································~~···~··········· 
THIS WEEK ~ lontr I >rthoN Film Festival 
Thursday, 
Friday, 
Saturday,April 14 April 16
April15 
Holy Grail 

Catch Monty Python's Founder Graham Chapman at O'Laughlin Auditorium April 24th. Tickets available 3-5 PM Weekdays Basement of LaFortune 


---------------------------~-----~~----~------------------­
Sports
Tuesday, April 12, 1988 
page 16 

ND baseball team sweeps Xavier 
By GREG GUFFEY  the champagne just yet.  
Sports Writer  "I'm not satisfied," Murphy  
The Irish baseball team moved within striking distance of a Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourney bid with a four-game sweep of Xavier last weekend. In fact, the Irish practically control their own fate. Capitalizing on consistent pitching and hitting, Notre Dame dominated the Mus­ said. "I'm not going to just sit back and say we've won more games than they did last year. We want to work and improve to get better. "This team has decided they want to be good. They have worked hard and they still have a lot of work to do. Through preparation, they have seen it happen on the field. I'm happy for them."  
kateers and improved to 20-13 overall, 6-2 in the MCC. The Irish swept the first  The Irish pitchers left Murphy happy against Xavier. Miike Passilla and Brian Piot­ 
doubleheader from Xavier Sat­urday by scores of 14-2 and 13-4 and then came back Sunday to  trowicz threw complete-game victories for the Irish, while Erik Madsen and Kevin  
win 6-1 and 7-6. The squad has won six games in a row and 14 of its last 17. The Irish could practically be  Chenail started and got the wins in the other two contests. Madsen improved his record to 6-2 and notched five strikeouts  
assured of a spot in the tourney with a split against Detroit this  in 8.1 innings of work. The Notre Dame hurlers sur­ 
weekend and they could clinch a spot with three victories in  rendered only five walks the entire weekend. That left the  
the four-game series. Even 1ne Observer I Mike Moran with the recent success, first­ staff with only 79 walks in 33  
Mike Passllla delivers to a Wisconsin batter earlier the lead In the MCC. Gr eg Guffey has the details year Irish coach Pat Murphy  
this  year.  The  Notre  Dame  swept  two at right.  isn't ready to pop the cork on  see BASEBALL, page 13  

doubleheaders from Xavier this weekend to take 
ND lacrosse nips Kenyon, stretches win streak to six 
By PETE LaFLEUR voiceferous student body that still alive as is their shot at the Jr. lookalike, was in position to drew Olmstead's man towards Sports Writer had three vocal "Coneheads" NCAA Western playoff berth. make the "in the crease" call. him and passed to the openamong its ranks. Air Force is still the favorite No Kenyon players dared to of­Olmstead. Olmstead still had to 
GAMBIER, Ohio--Junior At one point in the close game for the NCAA bid and the Fal­fer any rebuttal and the Irish work through two men to getJohn Olmstead scored a goal a Kenyon fan yelled, "Hey ref, cons were responsible for the were still alive. in close. with :12 remaining in a second if you had one more eye you'd only Irish loss this year. "He (Jenkins) had a lot of 
"After Lano hit me with the 

period of overtime to give the be a cyclops." Jenkins made several crease guts to make that call but Mar­pass a couple of guys were Notre Dame lacrosse team an Luckily for the Irish, umpire calls against Kenyon attack­tin was definitely in the trying to check my stick and emotional 7-6 victory over Jim Jenkins had two fully func­men. No call was more crucial crease," senior tri-captain the ball was bouncing around," Kenyon here Saturday. tioning eyes. Otherwise the than the one whistled against John McNicholas said. "It was Olmstead said. "The goalie
The Irish stretched their team might be staring at a 7-2 Kenyon star Terry Martin with great for us to have an in­came out to play me and I saw record to 8-1 and extended their record and the dismal realiza­2: 27 remaining in the first over­timidating ref there to make an opening and shot it over his winning streak to six game~. tion that their season had lost time. that call in overtime in front of shoulder. It was a great look 
Olmstead, who also scored in much of its significance. On that play, Martin backed their fans." by Lano. the fourth quarter, continues to "I think the victory over his way into the right side of Kenyon continued to slow "Everyone came on the field lead the team with 27 goals and Kenyon was more important the crease against Irish defen­
dow!! the play in the second and jumped on me. It's always 
15 assists. He has become the than we really thought semen Kevin O'Connor and overtime, but the Irish a great feeling when you can sixth all-time leading scorer beforehand,'' senior tri-captain Brendan Cahill. Martin, who defense held. With less than win a game for the team." for the Irish with 86 career Art Brady said. "By beating scored four goals in the game, :30 remaining in the second Senior goalie Matt McQuil­points. them it has put us in position then found an opening and shot overtime the Irish moved the lan, Olmstead's roommate,
Notre Dame had their hands to do something whereas, if we the ball by Irish goalie Matt ball upfield in a rare transition. also rose to the occassion to 
full with Kenyon's zone defense had lost, the final games McQuillan. Kenyon players Defenseman Doug Spencer keep the Irish in the game. In and deliberate offensive at­wouldn't mean as much." rushed the field as Irish hearts passed to middie Tom Lanahan the third quarter the Notretack. Additionally, the Lords The team's hopes of being the sank. on the clear. Lanahan, one of were well supported by a see LACROSSE, page 12
best team in the Midwest are But Jenkins, a Louis Gossett the team's tri-caotains. then 
Top teams rolling through Round 2 

By PETE SKIKO 
Assistant Sports Editor at halftime, but we started playing pretty consistently in the second half. 
As Bookstore Basketball "We've been playing to­wades through the round of 256, gether for three years now andthe wins get tougher and the have a good sense of where the contenders begin to stand out other guys are going to go onfarther and farther from the the court. The only differences rest of the pack. 

we have are that we picked up Several teams made their Steve Bynum, lost Tim Craw­own statements that they ford and changed our name."

planned on staying in the tourn­Pop a Shot looks to be in form ament for a few rounds. 
to at least duplicate last year's One of these .was Pop a Shot performance, as does Put It Inat Senior Bar, a team com­the Hole Again, Chief, who isprised of three members of last out to prove that last year'syear's final eight squad, New final 16 finish was no fluke.
Order. After a sluggish first Chief buried 5 Chips in Search half, Pop a Shot went on to 
Of... , 21-3. Also, Air Doggers,
drain Fill It Up, 21-13, behind Ralph Ferrara's 5-for-6 second featuring former Leone's Stal­half shooting. Ferrara has been lion Gary Sasse, rejected A 
surprised at the tightly compet­senior with a Job, ... , 21-7. Sasse itive early rounds so far. shot seven-for-eight and had 11 

Bookstore Basketball continues as the second
rebounds on the day. 
"I guess you can't count on 

round draws to a close this afternoon. Thus far, 
taking it easy early on any 

see BOOKSTORE, page 11 very few favored teams have stumbled heading
more," said Ferrara. "I 









