IACCENT: Mind your Manor 
IVIEWPOINT: A dying tradition? 


_, 

VOL. XXII, NO. 6 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Student Senate debates alcohol 
By REGIS COCCIA be very different," he said. "I Senior Staff Reporter 
think it still would be a conser­vative document, but students 
A Senate resolution express­would be involved in it in a ma­ing disapproval over the Ad­ture, adult manner." ministration's distribution of Mike Paese, student body the revised alcohol policy was vice president, said he felt stu-­defeated at last night's Student , dent input was not an issue in Senate meeting. the revised alcohol policy. 
"I strongly disapprove of the 
The resolution, authored by idea of (the lack of) student in­senators Mark Chapman (Dist. put because I think it's inac­3), Pat Kiernan (Dist. 1) and curate," he said. Tom Rask (Dist. 4), criticized "The task force reports had what it called a lack of student students on them last year. It input in the policy's formation was very clear to (Director of and a haphazard manner of Residence Life) Dr. Firth, very communicating the policy clear to (University President) changes to students. Father Malloy, very clear to 
The resolution also called for (Executive Vice President) the research of "providing al­Father Beauchamp exactly ternatives to social activities how the students felt," Paese affected by the revised alcohol said. Saint Mary's student Amy Blong and Notre Dame seasonable weather as an alternative to the confines 
policy." 
junior Joe Schwab study outside in yesterday's of the 'brar. 
The Senate defeated the "I think it would be very un­resolution in a 10-3 vote, with likely a student would be in­one member abstaining. vited to Land O'Lakes, Wiscon­"Many people have made it sin, to take part in a major 
West Germany prohibits air shows 
very clear to me that they are policy decision," he said. 
Associated Press burns on their bodies. Stripes: "I saw this little boyin the dark. We feel this resolu­"We should be taking posi­
tion states it clearly," said tive steps," said Paese. "It's Most of the more than 300,000 just standing there. His hair time we stop complaining RAMSTEIN, West Germany­spectators at the. annual air was all singed and the skin was 
Rask. 
West Germany suspended mil­show were West Germans and coming off his face. And he was "I have a big complaint with about what we don't have and itary air shows Monday follow­Americans, and about 500 were just standing there, looking up the alcohol policy," Kiernan start looking at what we do ing the fiery crash at an avia­injured. The identities of the at me.
said. "Where something has a have." 
big impact on the students, Paese suggested the senators tion exhibition that killed 46 dead were not released, but at there should be direct student bring out a revised resolution. people. Scores of others who least 11 Americans were criti­"Nobody stopped to help 
suffered critical burns battled cally burned. him. They were running. Weinput. The senators responsible for 
for their lives. "Some were missing skin on stopped the police and the"I think if students were in­the resolution did not say whe­
their arms. The sun had come police picked him up."
volved in the decision-making ther they would draw up an­Sunday's tragedy at the U.S. out, and there were a lot of The disaster occurred as anprocess, this policy would not other. 
Air Force Base in Ramstein people who didn't have their Italian air force flying team in was described as the worst air shirts on. A lot had black burns, 10 jets, two groups of five each, show crash involving spec­like their skin was burned performed a complicated ma­
Yellowstone 
tators. Some were burned black," said DeeDee Arrington neuver less than 200 feet off the beyond recognition when three Doke, a reporter for the unof­ground shortly before 4 p.m. forest fires Italian jets collided on a low7 ficial U.S. military newspaper Jim Beichler, a University of 
level stunt flight and one of Stars and Stripes, who was at Maryland teacher, told the them hurtled into the crowd in the scene. paper someone next to him had 

keep burning 
a ball of flame. looked at one of the Italian People ran in panic, many John Flanagan, an Air Force 
Associated Press 
with clothes in tatters and large sergeant, told Stars and see CRASH, page 6 
YELLOWSTONE National Park, Wyo.-Forest fires have 

EPA pollution ban stops new construction 
engulfed nearly one-quarter of the nation's oldest national Associated Press the impasse before Congress more than a few tons of pollut­park, but only three sm~ll adjourns sometime in October ants annually. buildings have been lost and WASHINGTON-The Envi­for election campaigning. But Lents, executive officer even with the blackened forests ronmental Protection Agency The EPA's construction ban of California's South Coast Air and thick smoke, Yellowstone said Monday it is banning con­applies only to facilities that Quality Management District, hasn't lost its majesty. struction of new facilities in annually produce more than said it might be harder to build 
The series of ferocious fires greater Los Angeles that pose 100 tons of carbon monoxide or needed sewage treatment have so far spared the major a major air pollution threat, a volatile compounds like plants if the ban continues for tourist attractions at the grand ban that could be extended to gasoline that form ozone, a very long. 116-year-old matriarch of the a dozen other U.S. cities this major component of smog ln announcing the ban, EPA parks, although one fire still fall. which causes lung damage. administrator Lee Thomas causes concern for the safety The EPA is legally required Oil refineries, paint shops at renewed his appeal for of the facilities around Old to move against Los Angeles auto assembly plants or large Congress to provide guidance Faithful geyser. because an eight-month printing plants might emit that on dealing with the 107 cities or 
Scorched tree trunks moratorium on pollution much ozone-causing pollution, other areas that failed to meet punctuate some camping and penalties expires at midnight but none is planned in the Los federal. air quality standards picnic areas and some hiking Tuesday. Congress imposed Angeles area. last year for ozone, carbon trails have been lost, along with the moratorium last December A representative of state air monoxide or both. The 107 a comfort station, outhouse and to give itself more time to pollution officers said the areas cover about one-third of historic cabin. revise and clarify the Clean Air EPA's action was little more the U.S. population.
AP Photo 

A total of more than 450,000 Helicopter Assault Act. than "a paper tiger." Califor­Thomas said if Congress fails of the park's 2.2 million acres A helicopter dumps water a But negotiations over revis­nia official James Lents said it to act again this year, the result 
on 

have been swept by the worst ing the law are stalled by dis­would have no immediate im­could be "many more sanc­
Rogue River, Ore. forest fire, one 
fires in the area in at least 200 agreements over acid rain and pact on his state, whose regu­tions on areas as well as man-
of many presently burning in the 
other issues, and legislators lations already forbid con­
see FIRE, page 6 western United States. see BAN, page 6
hold out little hope of resolving struction of facilities emitting 

I 
IN BRIEF I 
Some 1 ,800 Notre Dame Freshmen learned during orientation that they have a special cachet. The Class of 1992 has been designated the Sesquicentennial Class by University officials, and members will be involved in plan­ning events celebrating the 150th anniversary of the found­ing of Notre Dame. Established in 1842, the University is the 13th oldest among existing American Catholic institu­tions of higher learning. The idea came from the History of the University committee, which has been involved in some of the early discussion of the Sesquicentennial. The committee has suggested that the observance take place between November 1991 and November 1992. That proposal and others will be taken up by a formal Sesquicentennial Committee to be appointed soon by Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Jurgen Brauer, a graduate student in economics at the University of Notre Dame has been awarded a Peace Scholar .Award by the United States Institute of Peace. Brauer, a native of West Berlin, received a master's degree from Notre Dame 1986. He is doing research in military expenditure, arms production, and economic de­velopment in Third World nations. 
A microwave popcorn bag is the subject of a patent infringement suit filed by Golden Valley Microwave Foods Inc. The civil suit accused Weaver Popcorn Co., of Van Buren, Ind., of patent infringement. Weaver,~ privately held business, is one of the largest processors of popcorn in the United States and produces and sells microwave 
. popcorn products worldwide. The lawsuit, filed last week, maintains that Weaver is infringing on the patent issued to Golden Valley last April 5 for technology included in its microwave popcorn bags marketed under the Act II trademark. Golden Valley contends that Weaver is selling and distributing microwave popcorn packages which in­corporate the technology covered by the Golden Valley patent. In addition to seeking damages for past infringe­ment, Golden Valley has asked the court to enjoin Weaver from further manufacturer, sale or distribution of the package at issue.-Associated Press 
The moos have it. Dairy farms may have disappeared from around the northern Illinois town of Harvard that once called itself "The Milk Center of the World," but residents still know their cows. When they saw two 8-foot­high pictures of what were supposed to be dairy cows on their new 135-foot tall water tower last month, they started beefing. The cows, they said, looked like bulls. Residents also noted that everything on the water tower had been painted on the wrong directional axis, so people driving by could see only part of the design. A day after the paint job, Mayor Frank Godo ordered a more accurate repre­sentation of cows and proper alignment of the artwork. Local farmers were happy to supply more accurate cow drawings, and city engineers presented the painters last week with a proper cow image Including a small patch of grass. "I guess it turns out we're lucky that they messed up on the direction," said engineer Bill Rimer. "We'll get a good cow out of it."-Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Students interested In theatre are invited to a meeting and party at Washington Hall, Wednesday, Au­gust 31, at 7:00 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre faculty will be on hand to answer questions. 
-The Observer 
Transportation for the disabled is available for students who have a broken foot or other ailments that prevent them from getting around campus. For informa­tion, contact Mike at 283-3305 or Pete at 283-3280. -The Observer 
page2 The Observer Tuesday, August30, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 
·I
Diverse Observer jobs await the adv·enturous 
Deoign EdiiOT . ............ Annette Rowland TJipe•ettera ................... Mark Ridgeway 
............................................. Mike Kolar New• Editor....................... Sara Marley CopJI EdiiOT . . .. ............. Cindy Broderick Sporla COJIII Edi!OT .. ........... Greg Guffey Viewpoint LaJ1oul ..• •. •.. . . . . . . Alliaon Cocka 

Tile Olleener (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tile ~er is published by the students of the University of Notte Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purc:has· ed for S40 per year ($2!1 per semester) by writina Tile Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S$6. 
Tile Ot.ner is a member of Tile AIMdaled Pral. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
Accent Copy EdiiOT .... Michael P. Restle Accent Layout................... Allison Cocka Typiat .•......•.............•........... Will Zamer 
•.••.••••••..•...........•.............. Diana Bradley ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler SMC DaJI EditOT ............... Maura Reidy Photographer .................. Heleni Korwek 
Tonight is Student Activities. All the clubs and organizations on campus will be there, in­cluding The Observer. "What can I do for The Observer?'' will no doubt be the most frequently asked question at our table. For anyone inter­ested, The Observer has a number of entry­level positions at The Observer. All of the fol­lowing jobs require only minimal experience, but they are all responsible positions. If The Observer hires someone, we are putting our faith and trust in them, and they in turn should respect us enough to do a complete and thor­ough job. 
News copy editors: Each night of publication a news copy editor is on duty to copy edit the campus and Asso<;iated Press stories as well as help write photo outlines. A copy editor works from 6 p.m. until the newspaper is finished. 
News reporters: In order to cover as many campus events as possible The Observer needs a broad base of reporters. News reporters must be solid, responsible writers. No prior news writing experience is necessary; The Observer will be happy to train new writers. R~porters should be prepared to write a least one story a week. 
Sports reporters: Just as a newspaper needs news reporters it also needs sports writers. Sports reporters, like all reporters, must be re­sponsible, competent writers. 
Typesetters: The Observer typesets its own copy for the production of the newspaper. Typesetters work with The Observer's mini­computer and an Apple Macintosh computer, and therefore prospective typesetters should be comfortable with computer equipment. There are positions available for afternoon and eve­ning typesetters. 
Photographers: Photographs help illustrate 
and report the news, and The Observer is al­
ways looking for photojournalists. There are 
many positions available for photographers at 
various times throughout the day. 
Illustrators: The Observer generates its own artwork on a daily basis. There are often stories that cannot be illustrated properly with photographs and therefore need an illustration. The Observer needs not only free-hand il­lustrators but also those who are interested in computer generated info-graphics. 
Production staff: Students are responsible for laying out the paper every day we publish. The Observer is always looking for interested, re­sponsible students to help in lay out (production) of the paper. 
Viewpoint columnists: The Viewpoint page serves as The Observer's editorial page every day. The Viewpoint department needs students who are interested in writing a column periodi­cally. If you feel you have something important to say, this is the department for you. 

Ad sales people: The Observer supports it­self, iri part, through the sale of display adver­tising. The advertising department has posi­tions open for students interested in ad sales. 
Ad design: Many of the ads in The Observer require extensive make-up by The Observer's ad design staff. The ad designers, as the name implies, design and lay out the ads. It is an afternoon job and positions are available. 
Page design: This is a new position for The Observer this year. The page designers will be responsible for the overall design of the Accent page and other special sections. The Observer will train those interested in newspaper design and production, but some interest in art or design is required. 
Accent writers: The Accent department is the features department of The Observer. Those interested in features writing (e.g. reviews, profiles, human interest) are welcome to work for The Observer. 
I hope we see you there tonight. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE ffiNSHTIITION 
1l1c \'\.\"~rds ,-..·c li\"c ~· 


·····························~ 
:ALL STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS: : PARTICIPATING IN : : STUDENT ACTMTIES NIGHT :
•: You must pick up booth assignment forms •: + in the office of STUDENT ACTIVITIES + 
: 3rd floor, LaFortune /· : 
: Mon., Aug. 29 and Tues., Aug. 30 :
•~...........................~• 

Tuesday, August 30, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Future air shows face changes after traged·y 
Associated Press 
LONDON-The disaster at Ramstein U.S. Air Base in West Germany casts a shadow over the air shows that are among Europe's favorite spectator sports as well as being the major marketplaces of the in­ternational aerospace indus­try. 
But while Germany has suspended military air exhibi­tions and some calls are being heard for other European countries to do likewise, the shows look likely to go on. 
Sunday's tragedy at Ramstein came a week before Europe's biggest aviation event England's Farnborough Air Show --and although Farnborough hasn't experienced an accident in­volving spectators since 1952, the Ramstein disaster immedi­ately prompted thoughts about safety at the show. 
In Britain, Ken Collins, a Labor Party member of the European Parliament, wrote to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on Monday urging that Farnborough be canceled because, "We cannot afford to take any more needless risks with human life." 
Organizers said the show 
would go on, but spokesman 
t********************************! 
* * 
* *
: Campus Bible Study : * * 
* * 
* *
! sponsored by ! ! Office of Campus Ministry ! ! University of Notre Dame ! * * 
* *
! Are you interested?! 
!* Come to an !* ! OFFICE OF information meeting!
* * 
! 0MPUS on Wednesday, ! 
£MINISTRY August 31, at 7:00 PM.£ 
! Universily ol Notre Dome Location: Office of !! Notre Dome, IN 46556 M• • t * li!JfatyCOnco.... 219-238-8~36 Campus tnts ry, * 
BoOin Holl219•239·5242 
** 

! Badin Hall. ! !* . Fr. AI D'Aionzo, CSC * ! 239-5577 ! 
*********************************\ 
Act as an Ambassador to your High School 
representing the Notre Dame Admissions Office 
Pick up an application for the Undergraduate Schools Committee in the Admissions Office before September 2 
AQWQRKS 

Duncan Simpson, a former test pilot, said: "No one would deny that after an accident like that we all have to think very hard." 
However, he said the safety rules already were so strict that there was little scope for major change. 
Pilots at Farnborough have to perform their display for a committee of experts before the show opens. They cannot fly over or toward the spectators, they must maintain a mini­mum altitude of 100 feet and must keep to the side of the run­way farthest from the grandstands. 
"I would never say an inci­dent will never happen," Simpson said in an interview. "They do happen occasionally. What we are concerned with is ensuring that in the likelihood of an accident, the catastrophic consequences should be reduced to an absolute mini­mum." 
Paul Beaver, managing editor of Janes' Defense Data, the authoritative military publishing concern, reckons that air shows statistically are 10 times safer than highways. 
"You're much less likely to be hurt at an air show than driving to it," he said in an in­terview. 

The Observer I Heleni Korwek
Watch your step 

A studious Saint Mary's student exhibits admirable walking past the fountain near Haggar Student Cen­time management skills as she reads a book while ter. 
SMC events are announced 
be performing in the Haggar Parlor from 8:30 to 11 p.m. 
On September 7th, the Stu­dent Activities Board invites foreign students to attend a "Welcome to America" picnic from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. on the Haggar Terrace. Hamburgers, hotdogs, and other "American" foods will be served added Wagner. 
SAB and the Saint Mary's Junior Class are sponsoring "Good Morning Vietnam" which will be showing in Car­roll Hall September 13-15 at 9 and 11 p.m. Admission is $1. 
Hill also outlined the goals of the 1988-89 Programming Board. The number one goal of this year's board is to "act in the best interest of the sudent body". 


By JOANNA GRILLO News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Program­ming Board held its first meeting Monday night. Accor­ding to Lisa Hill, Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs, the primary topic of last night's meeting was Saint Mary's Ac­tivities Night to be held Wed­nesday from 8 to 10 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
"It is a great way for fresh­men to get involved. Every club at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will be represented," said Hill. 

From Editor of ..Tiny Tots•• to Editor of The Observer. 
According to Julie Wagner of the Student Activities Board, SAB is sponsoring several up­coming events, including a Snow Cone Giveaway, Club Tuesday, a Welcome to America Picnic and the movie "Good Morning Vietnam". 
The snow cone giveaway will take place on August 31, from noon to 3 p.m. in front of Hag­gar College Center. 
September 6 marks the date of SAB's first Club Tuesday. Mr. Mike Rayburn, profes­sional singer and guitarist will 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Payroll Clerk 
-must be a junior or senior Accountancy 
Major -submit resume to Todd Hardiman in the Observer Office, 3rd floor LaFortune -Deadline Sept 4, 1988 
For further Information contact Todd Hardiman at The Observer (239-5303) 

• 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, Augu~t30, 1988 


Center for Social Concerns 
University of Notre Dame 
CHALLENGING SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
VISIT THE TENT AT STEPAN CENTER CAMPUS ACTIVITIES NIGHT TUESDAY, AUG. 30, 7 TO 10 P.M. 
Information and representatives of these groups: 
Objective: Provide first aid services at NO events and for Student Health Center American Red Cross Needs: Volunteers Contact: Bro. Louis Hurcik (239-7053) 
Objective: Advocate human rights, work to free _prisoners of conscience, stop torture and execution Amnesty International Needs: Volunteers for letter-writing, publicize in communities, and raise funds Contact: Kevin Mundy (283-3797) or John Farley (283-1562) 
Objective: Increase awareness about oppressive government of South Africa and take appropriate action Anti-Apartheid Needs: Volunteers Contact: Tim Walsh (283-5543) 
Objective: Provide a setting for shared time and friendship between a student and child Bh: Brothers I Bi&: Sisters Needs: Volunteers Contact: Laura Sheffler (283-1269) c· I K Objective: Develop leadership and serve lrC e Needs: Volunteers to visit Marian Hill, Logan Center, NISH, etc. Contact: Greg Rodrigues (283-1152) 
Objective: Live a Christian service-oriented lifestyle through education, service projects, spiritual and social activities Community for the International Lav Anostolate (CII A) Needs: Volunteers for all GILA projects
.-;¥&,1~&&~WI.IIII.au&,,J,.,J,....II.KI......t.r.lll~~t.~o:lo.I.JL!.II.U:_IU.!oii_~-Wil-i.;I,J,.""""-t..JII'~-~-ll--1L-U_ll_Ui_'-l,;__ Contact: Pete Morgan (283-1205) or Dave Lawlor (283-3268)
~!.!-o.!.-'a.L_ 

Objective: A recreation! socialization program for 6-16 year old children Council for Fun & Learn Needs: Volunteers on Saturday, 9-11:30 A.M. 
Contact: Kathy Royer (239-7862) 

Council for the Retarded ~~:dc~~v~~iu~:~i~ates in activities for Logan Center clients 
Contact: Jim Mohan (283-4075) or Karen Maier (284-5526) Dismas House Objective: Operate a ~ommunity of former prisoners and students --Needs: Volunteers to 11ve at house Contact: Kathy Royer (239-7862) Objective: Prevent waste of food on Notre Dame CampusF_00d Sh ___are Needs: Volunteers to transport food Contact: Lisa Mackett (283-4945) 
• Objective: To provide affordable housing to low income people
Habrtat for Humanjt): Needs: Volunteers to renovate houses Contact: Kevin Mundy (283-3797) 
· hb h d S d H I p Objective: Tutor area children from kindergarten through high school
N_elf:__or_oo__tU_): _e_p _ro~:ram Needs: Volunteers for one hour twice a week Contact: Tara Durney (237-9533) 
d. Stat D I C Objective: Work with mentally retarded children and adolescents
N th I

_or__ern _n_rana ___e _eye_opmept _enter Needs: Volunteers Contact: Wilfred King (283-1788) or Chris Ryan (283-1788) Oyeroi&ht Shelter for the Homeless Objective: Provide overnight shelter and services for the homeless Needs: Overnight volunteers and publicizing of problems of homeless Contact: Kelly McGoldrick (283-2812) k (ODN) Objective: Respond constructively to problems of world hunger and poverty
0_yerseas D_eye_opmeot__ N t ----­
I e_WOr_ Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects 
Contact: Kathy Royer (239-7862) 

Pax Chrjsti Objective: Creative consciousness-raising on peace and justice issues 
Needs: Volunteers for bi-weekly meetings 
Contact: Julie Coyle (283-3784) or Jeff Long (283-2450) 
Project Head Start Objective: Provide a child development program for pre-school children from limited income families 
Needs: Volunteers for classroom one mormng or afternoon per week 
Contact: Denise Talotta (283-2510) or Gary Seibel (283-3489) 
R. ht to Lr"~ Objective: To educate the Notre Dame community about the issue of abortion
_If: ______te Needs: Volunteers 
Contact: Theresa Harrington (283-4832) 
SOS 1Madjson Center Objective: Provide mental health and substance abuse services 
Needs: Volunteers interested in mental health field 
Contact: Laurel Eslinger (234-D061) in the morning 

STEP Objective: To tutor and provide support to young people who are in the South Bend Juvenile Detention Center 
Needs: Volunteer tutors 

Contact: John Reiser (283-1606) 
Thomas More Sociel): Objective: Keep alive and spread ideals and moral principles of St. Thomas More 
Needs: Volunteers for lectures and community serv1ce 
Contact: Chris Devron 

Womap United for .lustjce & Peace Objective: Educate selves and others in power of common sisterhood, understand responsibilities in world today, and take appropriate action Needs: Volunteers • • . . Contact: Kristin Komyatte (283-3791)World Hun~:er Coahhon ObJective: Educate community on issues related to world hunger Needs: Volunteers Contact: Kathy Royer (239-7862) 
YWCA Women's Shelter Objective: To give shelter to women in crisis as a result of physical abuse Needs: Volunteers Contact: Donna Timmons (233-9491) 
Contact: Center for Social Concerns 239-5293 WASHINGTON D.C. SEMINAR (Fall Break) APPALACHIAN SERVICE SEMINAR (Fall Break) SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS Nurture Life Through Service URBAN PLUNGE --and more 
Tuesday, August 30, 1988 The Observer 
Faculty grants announced 
Special to The Observer • $112,324 from the National Chemical Corp. for research on 
Science Foundation for re­radiolytic destruction of or­
The University of Notre search on weak interactions in ganics by Robert Irvine and Dame received $2,050,870 in heavy atoms by Walter William Gray, professors of grants during July for the sup­Johnson, professor of physics, civil engineering, and Charles port of research and various and Jonathan Sapirstein, asso­Kulpa, associate professor of programs. Research funds to­ciate professor of physics. biological sciences. taled $1,733,202, including: • $110,000 from the Occiden­• $33,952 from the Occidental 
• 
$205,000 from the National tal Chemical Corp. for re­Chemical Corp. for research by Science Foundation for collid­search by Robert Irvine, pro­Charles Kulpa, associate pro­ing beam particle physics re­fessor of civil engineering , on fessor of biological sciences, on search by V. Paul Kenney and immobilized enzyme treat­the inhibition of microbial ac­Nripendra Biswas, professors ment of xenobiotic organic tivity in stream sediment. of physics, and John LoSecco, compounds. • $30,000 from the Lynde and associate professor of physics. • $83,780 from the National Harry Bradley Foundationfor 

• 
$160,000 from the Environ­Science Foundation for re­research by Ralph Mcinerny, mental Protection Agency for search by Lawrence Lee, pro­Grace professor of medieval research by Victor Bierman, fessor of aerospace and me­studies and professor of philos­associate professor of physics, chanical engineering, on ophy, on politics and the com­on a model for toxic chemicals post-bifurcation behavior of mon good in the thought of M. in Green Bay. wrinkles in sheet metal form­Oakeshott. 

• 
$159,342 from the National ing. • $27,000 from the Social Sci­Institutes of Health for re­• $82,585 from the National ence and Humanities Research search by Marvin Miller, pro­Institutes of Health for re­Council of Canada for research fessor of chemistry, on the syn­search training in mental by D' Arcy Boulton, adjunct as­thesis of beta-lactams from retardation by John Borkowski sistant professor of history, on hydroxamic acids. and Thomas Whitman, profes­the princes of France between 

• 
$143,892 from the National sors of psychology. 1200 and 1500 A.D. Institutes of Health for re­• $73,519 from Oxychem • $22,000 from Purdue Uni­search by Roger Bretthauer, Technology Center for re­versity of research by Victor professor of chemistry, on search by Charles Kulpa, asso­Bierman, associate professor glycoprotein sythesis and func­ciate professor of biological of physics, on tributary loading tion in the lung. sciences, on bioremediation of methods. 

• 
$142,105 from the Public soils. • $20,004 from the National Health Service for research on • $64,800 from the National Institutes of Health for re­predicting and modifying Aeronautics and Space Admin­search on enzyme-assisted syn­parenting in adolescent mot­istration for research by Daniel thesis of beta-lactam an­hers by John Borkowski, Costello, professor of electrical tibiotics by Marvin Miller, Thomas Whitman, and Scott engineering, on error control professor of chemistry, and Al­Maxwell, professors of psy­techniques and satellite and bert Minnick, postdoctoral stu­chology, and Cynthia Schellen­space communication. dent. bach, assistant professor of • $62,500 from the National • $17,314 from the Public psychology. Science Foundation for re­Health Service for work by 

• 
$120,000 from the U.S. De­search by Presidential Young George Craig, Clark Professor partment of Energy for re­Invesigator Award winner of biological sciences, on a field search by Randal Ruchti, pro­David Leighton, assistant pro­collection of Aedes albopictus fessor of physics, on fiber-optic fessor of chemical engineering. in southern Indiana. detector development. • $50,600 from the Occidental • $6,540 from the National 



Morning has broken 
A Saint Mary's student gets an early start on the day as she passes this gazebo by Regina Hall. 
Science Foundation for re­Awards for facilities equip­search on by Stephen ment totaled $98,500, includ­Carpenter, associate professor ing: of biological sciences, and Ann • $50,000 in facilities and St. Amand, graduate student, equipment from the National alternate states of metalim­Science Foundation for re­netic systems. search on radioactive beams 
• $5,944 from the National by James Kolata, professor of Institutes of Health for re­physics. search by Subhash Chandra • $48,500 in equipment for Basu, professsor of chemistry, the Lilly Endowment Inc. for a and Manju Basu, associate fac­senior design laboratory di­ulty fellow in chemistry, on rected by John Uhran and glycolipid metabolism in Eugene Henry, professors of tumor and transformed cells. f>lectrical engineering. 

ew 
Business. Business. 
The TI Business Edge 
Unique Power Touch display 
with touch-sensitive panels: 
two for financial, two for 
statistics. Twenty pre­
programmed li.mctions in all. 




Get the "Edge" in your That's why you need the new 11 finance and statistics Business Edge calculator. It features a unique Power Touch™ 
courses with TI's new 
display panel with five display
Business Edge~ 
screens that are preprogrammed to 

Ifyou're planning a career in solve 20 ofthe most essential 
business, the first order ofbusiness financial and statistical problems. 
is to get the right tool for the job Just touch the screen to enter and 
you have right now-school. store information. 
IH0006 
Solves for such financial results as present and future values, an­nuities, amortization, and interest conversions. Performs one and two-variable statistics. 
Want to get an edge in business? 
TEXAS~
Get an edge in school first, with help from the 11 Business Edge. INSTRUMENTS 
pageS The Observer Tuesday, August30, 1988 
r 
Saint Mary's student Carrie Deane takes advantage of a nearby tree outside Haggar Student Center. 
of the mild weather to work on a sketch in the shade 
Crash 
continued from page 1 
planes and said, "He's going to hit. He's not going to make it." 
"The plane blew up, and people started running," Beichler said. "One guy was on fire. Other people were wrapped up in barbed wire. There were small fires all around me." 
A ball of flame 200 feet high and equally wide raced toward the crowd after the crash that killed the three Italian pilots. 
Sgt. Eddie Lee, a spokesman for Ramstein, said officials were having trouble identify­ing the dead and a list of vic­tims would not be released until Tuesday. 
"Eleven Americans are in critical condition at a U.S. mil­itary hospital in Landstuhl," 
Ban 
continued from page 1 
datory federal pollution plans and litigation, which will only further delay reaching the goal we all want--clean air." 
The General Accounting Of­fice, the investigative arm of Congress, says existing law is not silent on the issue, as Thomas contends, and that all 107 areas should be penalized. 
Decisions on similar con­struction bans are pending for Ventura County, Calif., and for the Indiana and Illinois sub­urbs of Chicago. 
Before the end of the year, the EPA expects to adopt a policy requiring areas not meeting pollution standards to demonstrate steady progress, with a goal of an average 3 per­cent reduction in pollution con­
centrations  annually,  apart  
from  any nationwide  reduc­ 
tions.  

When it adopts that policy, the agency will decide whether to impose construction bans at Denver; Reno, Nev.; 
Lee said, adding that there could be more such cases in other hospitals. 
Rudolf Tartter, head of the local government district that includes Ramstein, said West German officials put the death count at 45, one below the U.S. toll. There was no explanation for the discrepancy. 
Defense Minister Rupert Scholz said officials will study ways for West Germany and its NATO allies to demonstrate their air forces' abilities with­out endangering spectators. 
"Until suggestions for effec­tive measures are complete, there will not be any more air shows with military aircraft in West Germany, this with the agreement of the air forces of our NATO allies," Scholz an­nounced. 
Bakersfield, Sacramento and Fresno, Calif.; East St. Louis, Ill., the Indiana suburbs of Louisville, Ky.; Cleveland; At­lanta, and Dallas. 
The agency said Dallas could escape penalties because of new proposals in its latest air quality plan. 
Denver, Reno and Cleveland fail to meet carbon monoxide standards. Fresno fails both the carbon monoxide and ozone standards, and the other areas fall short of meeting ozone standards. 
Because of its weather and terrain, Los Angeles has by far the highest ozone concentra­tions in the country. Anti­pollution measures there have long been the strictest in the country. 
Already under construction bans are the Kentucky suburbs of Cincinnati; St. Cloud, Minn. ; Albuquerque, N.M., and some parts of Illinois. Other penalties have been assessed against Albuquerque, but the EPA last month proposed lif­ting those sanctions. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a 11fe~ov1ng Red Cro~~ CPR cour~e.
+American Red Cross 

Fire 
continued from page 1 
years. 
But flames so far have been successfully diverted around buildings and monuments. Power lines and some cabins have been saved under the protection of fire-proof blankets. 
And already officials are planning the rebuilding and talking to potential visitors about next year --when grassy meadows will sprout where dense forest used to be. 
"Yellowstone will be a differ­ent kind of Yellowstone in the future. It certainly will be a living testament to the most powerful forces in nature," said park spokeswoman Joan Anzelmo. 
"On a scale of one to ten, I guess I'd say the condition of the park is an eight. But we still have at least four more weeks of drought conditions," and the fires continue to spread, she said. 
Yellowstone, which is the size of Delaware and Rhode Is­land combined and is visited by more than 2 million people a year, still has more than one million acres of untouched lodgepole pine. 
Wildlife like buffalo, elk and bears have escaped unharmed, and still could be seen grazing along some roads Monday. Park rangers estimate that in areas where fast-moving flames jumped around, only 50 percent of the vegetation was lost. 
"The park isn't entirely black," spokeswoman Amy Vanderbilt said. 
Yet several roads remain closed because of the danger of falling trees. In some areas, the thick, pungent smoke painted a white sheet over colorful mountain vistas. 
And about half of the camp grounds and hotels have been shut down --not because of damage but because of prox­imity to danger and lack of tourists. 
Eight major fires contiltlued burning Monday in Yel­lowstone, and several others blazed in national forests on the perimeter. 
While it will take decades of mature trees to return to damaged areas, fires spark a rebirth in the forest and are ac­tually beneficial for its ecologi­cal cycle by allowing new growth. 

We will be collecting the balance of $325 for all those who've signed up on 
August 30 & 31 6:30 -9:00 pm in Main Lobby of Lafortune 
If seniors are still interested in going, spots are still available. The full $475 will be collected when you sign up Aug. 30 & 31. 
Roommates will be chosen when balance is collected. Only quads. 
Any questions contact 
Kathleen Hannon Theresa Barnhart 283-4220 283-4272 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, August30, 1988 
Homeless veteran occupies log fort 
Associated Press paid their dues. They served with pride," Rose, of the Til­
VANCOUVER, Wash.-A lamook, Ore. area, told homeless ex-Marine bar­reporters. "It's a disgrace to ricaded himself in historic Fort see them sleeping on the side­Vancouver on Monday to walk. They face a lot of emo­protest what he said was a lack tional, psychological and of help for troubled Vietnam physical problems that are veterans, then gave up quietly unlike (those facing) any other in exchange for a chance to talk segment of the population in to reporters. America. 
The man, who identified him­"I feel that what we need to self as Ken Rose, 40, surren­do is set up a recovery place of dered to police and FBI agents our own, run by veterans, not seven hours after he scaled the by bureaucrats, so we could fortress' 15-foot wall and after treat them and get them back he fired several harmless to the right way of thinking." shots from replica cannons. He was arrested after talking 
Rose said he had enough to reporters, and could face provisions to stay two weeks federal and state charges for but that he agreed with an FBI entering the reconstructed log negotiator who told him to hold fortress, a federal landmark. out would be pointless. He said Rose said he was recently he was unarmed except for treated in the Veterans Admin­AP Photo
Olympic size drum

black powder that he used to istration hospital in Portland, 
fire off the cannons. Ore. for post-traumatic stress Wearing traditional hats called "moja," Korean high s~l for the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games "Veterans in this country syndrome and alcoholism. school students carry a ceremonial drum as a rehear-takes place in Seoul's Olympic Stadium Friday. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Talk show 


national television -from aAnalyzing and designing nance. Studies fluctuating ogy. Studies behavior of blue candidate. Assisted on pric­performer's standpoint that's pretty big," said Tanibridges. Developed working stock and money market whales and effect of environ-ing projects for GM. The HP-
Freiwald, 37, a full-time secre­modelofadoublespandrelarch trends. Assisted head trader ment on distribution of mar­17B offers easy algebraic entry. tary and part-time ac~ress who 
played the roles of sex-hatingbridge. The HP-28S helps him in Yen at Chicago Mercantile ine mammals. The new, easy Plus time value of money, cash 
wife and sex surrogate on the analyze structural stress and Exchange. The HP-12C with to use HP-22S has a built-in flows and linear regression to shows. "In my mind, it was almost 
geometry. It's the only calcu-RPN lets him analyze prices, equation library with solver, analyze budgets and forecasts. 
fulfilling the prophesy Andy Warhol made in the mid-60s that everyone would be a star
::~;:h.~~:=,:i:n~::~:-NewAchievers in ::;:~::~:~:~::: 
for 15 minutes," said Wes Bailey, 33, who also has a jobvariable. 
looking after an elderly man. Hewlett-Bailey played an impotent
:::~~:: .HeavyMetal,Swing,Blues 
husband on a "Sally Jessy Rap­matrix math and graphics cap-Packard's calculators are built hael Show" televised in May
and Motown 

and a 35-year-old virgin on a
abilities. And HP Solve lets him • for your success. Look for them 
July "Geraldo." solve custom formulas without ratios, net present value and giving her access to the most at your campus bookstore. Or Rivera said he was "not amused" by the hoax and his
programming. With more than internal rate of return. He can commonly used scientific calll-800-752•0900, Ext. 658E, 
lawyer was investigating. "This is something that goes1500 functions, 32K RAM and even create his own custom equations. Statistics with for your nearest dealer. 
right to the integrity of the both RPN and algebraic entry, programs. The HP-12C is the linear regression. And alge-We never stop asking "What if ... broadcast itself. I'm really 
spitting mad," he said by tele­the HP-28S is the ultimate sci-established standard in fi-braic entry. The ideal student 
(h~ HEWLETT 
phone from New York. entific calculator. nancial calculators. science calculator. PACKARD Ms. Freiwald and Bailey, 
HP-28S SCIENTIFIC HP-12C ·FINANCIAL HP-22S SCIENTIFIC HP-17B BUSINESS watching these shows andCALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR CALCULATOR 
we're here to tell you they just ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ ain't always true, " she said. 

r 
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, August 30, 1988 
Alcohol Policy transferS problem 
During the past summer the Officers of the University reviewed and acted upon the report received from the Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol. Policy changes have been implemented;_ however, parts of the policy have failed to address properly the issue of alcohol consumption here at Notre Dame. 
First, the clause that limits dorms to one all-hall formal per semester and specifies that 70 percent of the dor~ must buy tickets well in advance will do little to enhance an already limited social atmosphere on campus. In the past, th~ University has stressed the centrality of dorm life, given the lack of fraternities and other such social organizations. The residence hall and its associated activities develop a strong sense of spirit and camaraderie, and the SYR is the dorm's social high point. 
Given the changes, disgruntled students will not regard the dorm as a viable social alternative and will turn to off-campus social events, an outcome that simply moves the alcohol problem elsewhere. The problem lies not in the all-hall formal itself but in the abuse of alcohol which often takes place at the SYR. A better solution could eliminate the alcohol orientation of these events without limiting their number. 
Second, in implementing these changes the University, failed to explain the rationale behind them. One can discern general reasons, primary among these the 21 drinking age in Indiana and the growing sentiment nation-wide to enforce more strictly these consumption laws. But these are not enough. Students, who comprise the majority of the University community, deserve to know the specific reasons why their dorm social life is being so radically altered. Moreover, the actual distribution of the policy changes has been sparse, as the majority of students have not seen the document itself. 
Third, the clause that forbids alcohol advertisements from University-sponsored publications unnecessarily questions the responsibility of the students and the student journalists. The publication of alcohol advertisements in The Observer neither constitutes alcohol abuse nor glamorizes it to students. The Ob­server in the past has printed responsible advertisements, and has a specific, written policy which guides advertising decisions. The University's actions are unwarranted in this area. 
Five years ago the University implemented an alcohol policy that has failed to address fully the alcohol problem on this campus. The necessity for periodic revisions have demonstrated this. The administration has to its credit implemented several positive steps, among these the creation of the mandatory course for freshmen on substance abuse. Unfortunately these latest changes affecting dorm parties and publications fail to improve the situation. 
-The Observer 
P.O. Box Q 
Year of Diversity plans events 
Dear Editor: 

We mentioned in our last letter that student government will be running a weekly Viewpoint column that will ad­dress campus issues that affect its ser­vice to the community and the student body as a whole. Thus we begin the year by addressing a topic we will all be hearing a great deal about over the next nine months, the Year of Cultural Diversity. 
We are now entering a very exciting time, one that may distinguish Notre Dame as a leading university that has challenged itself and its citizens to be­come more culturally sensitive. As we come in daily contact with various or­ganizations and people that are plan­ning the events of the Year of Cultural Diversity, we are excited about the pos­sibilities that this year holds. Students, administrators and faculty alike have devoted countless hours to provide an unparalleled selection of events and forums to educate and enrich this com­munity's understanding of the unique cultures that thrive within our world. 
This year challenges all of us to take a hard look at our own ignorance about people and customs that may be differ­ent from our own. In what other time or place will we ever again get the chance to explore in such detail and variety the different characters of our fellow man? If we somehow take a cyni­cal or apathetic attitude toward this year and this issue, then we rob our­selves of the chance to grow as human beings. The hall presidents will be re­ceiving a booklet containing a list of all the events and programs that the various committees will be presenting. In addition, distinctive posters and other media will be employed to adver­tise the various programs throughout the campus. This information will be passed on to all of you. Clearly, if we are to make this campus more ed­ucated and sensitive about the differ­ences of other cultures and peoples, then all of us must make a commitment as a community to participate in this year's events to start and continue a trend of cultural awareness. 
Finally, even though the success of 
the Year of Cultural Diversity rests upon your support, several individuals should be acknowledged for their ex­traordinary efforts in planning this year: the entire Committee on Cultural Diversity ohaired by Father Oliver Wil­liams, the five students who spent the summer organizing and designing the booklet outlining all the events: Robert Bartolo, Jr., Ramzi Baulaun, Maria Fuentes, Angela McRae, and their ad­visor Adele Lanan. · 
Thomas Doyle Student Body President Michael Paese Student Body Vice-President August 29, 1988 
Burke golf course deserves respect 
To studerJ-ts, faculty and staff: 
Many of you have seen the improve­ments at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Last year more than 17,000 rounds were played by members of the Notre Dame comrimnity, and many more rounds are played by alumni and friends of the University. The Univer­sity has a strong commitment to con­tinue to make "the Burke" an excep­tional collegiate facility. During the past two years we have built 18 new tees, modernized tee and green irriga­tion, renovated 67 traps, planted 60 trees and increased staff and equip­ment. Improvements are very costly; however, these improvements are only the start, and we are excited about the future. As you can imagine, there are numerous demands on University re­sources, and improvements can be a one-time cost with your help. 
We sincerely hope that many of you will use the facility and want to be part of the improvements to make "the Burke" an enjoyable experience. You can help by treating the course with respect, following posted rules and ob­serving golf etiquette. In doing these things your enjoyment will be en­hanced, as will the enjoyment of others. If we all help, "the Burke" can become an exceptional golf course in which we can all have pride. Thanks for helping! 
T.W. Kelly 
Director, Non-Varsity Athletics Aug. 29, 1988 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Americans who have received so much in freedom and prosperity and human enrichment, have a corresponding duty to share these blessings with others throughout the world.'' 
Pope John Paul II "Time," 9/21/87 
Editoral Bo~rd Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managin-g Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly AdvertiJing Design Manager ...............:~ Molly Killen News· Editor ........ : ................................ Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette ShiHs 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies ot' 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Man Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ....................................... Michael Moran 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. • 
Founded November 3,1966 
.----------­
------------~----~--------....., 
Tuesday, AuQust30, 1988 
page 9 

---------~-­
Acc.ent 


Like a fraternity, only better 
T 
DAN STRUTZEL" rissey is Sunday night Mass. people. I think the tradition accent writer Manorites and other students along with hall government from various dorms through­perpetuate that." here are many ideas that out campus crowd Indian­John Twohy and Kurt come to mind when a res­style on the floor of the Engler, two freshmen room­ident of Morrissey is asked to homey chapel with chipped mates, felt especially wel­describe the essence of Mor­walls and Romanesque design come in the dorm when they rissey Manor. Some to worship together. Even arrived. "Everyone here 
· Manorites mention the intense juniors and seniors who have wants to help you adjust and spirit and comraderie that is moved off campus regularly is very easy to get to know," shared among all the students return to Morrissey for Mass John says. "I especially like that pass through Morrissey's and the inevitable social gat~ the fact that there are no doorway over their four bering in the lounge after­cliques. I feel welcome." 
The Observer I Chris Lucey

years. Others speak of Mor­wards. Kurt was shocked by the 
Ann Marie Martersteck and Cecilia Bryer act Inconspicuous
rissey's numerous traditions friendliness of the people in 
on Westminster Bridge outside the Houses of Parliament.
that link together Manorites Finally, there are regular the dorm: "My brother goes from as far back as 1925 to traditions that every to a state school and it's so the present class of 1992. Still Manerite seems to take for impersonal. Here, the exact 
Engineers
others describe Morrissey as granted: doughnuts after hall opposite is true. I've been their home away from home meetings, Breakfast Club (an overwhelmed by the friendli­where one is always made to event where every ambitious ness here. People are willing feel welcome and truly a part student who functions before to help with anything. I really 
do London 
of a larger family. Indeed, 9:00 AM goes marching to the feel a part of the dorm." 
MIKE RESTLE of course, the channel tunnelMorrissey Manor is all of dining hall in his robe with accent writer project, a massive undertak­these things and much more. bowl and spoon in hand One facet of Morrissey life ing which will connect En­It is a fraternity of men who before home football games), that is rarely examined, but 
W
hat would you get if you gland to France by means ofgrow together and support or the pool tournament where quite unique, is its attention crossed 19 engineers a tunnel running underneath one another out of a deep serious billiard fanatics can to the needs of the communi­with Big Ben? Aside from a the English Channel from sense of pride, not only for show their expertise. ty. According to Dave broken bell and a potentially Dover to Calais.
their dorm, but for Notre Traditions certainly help to Shearon, a resident assistant ugly scene on Parliament The idea for the program,Dame itself. generate the family spirit and former Community Ser­Square, the answer is the Col-said Lucey, came from thethat Morrissey exemplifies, vice Commissioner, it is an . lege of Engineering's new realization that the College ofFounded in 1925, Morrissey but they are only a minor attempt for Manorites to ~ondon program. For six Engineering was the only Manor owes much of its component. The most essen­carry the spirit that is en­weeks this past summer' school on campus whose stu­popularity and mystique to its tial component is the com­couraged in the dorm out into from June 26 to August 5, a dents were not permitted tomyraid of traditions. Perhaps raderie among the residents the community. "Whether it group of 15 students and two study abroad. "These kids the most popular and well­and their desire to make Mor­be the weekly Manor tutoring resident assistants studied in will be graduating into an in­known tradition is Morrissey's rissey their home. Resident trips to St. Hedwigs Parish or London under the direction of ternational environment, andThursday Night Bowling. assistent Greg Galonka clothing drives, I have been faculty members Dr. Ed this is a good way to start,"Every Thursday night describes his feelings about pleased by the Manorites' Jerger and Dr. John Lucey. he explained. 
Manorites of all classes pile Morrissey over the past three desire to keep in touch with The college now joins the into cars and head to Beacon years: "Morrissey's spirit the larger community." 
ranks of the Law School and Unlike the other programs, Bowl for a night of fun, frolic and unity is exactly like a Morrissey is all about tradi­the College of Arts and Let­however, this one could notand brew. As any Manorite fraternity, but with one differ­tion, spirit, comraderie, and ters, which also have pro­be conducted during the would admit, this is not a ence. It's not' an exclusive community service. But, as grams there. In fact, the en­school year because of thenight to improve on one's spirit, it's an inviting and any Manorite would agree, it gineers used the same facility rigid course sequencing in thebowling average. In fact, welcoming spirit." is still very much more. And on Albemarle St. near college's regular programs ofMorrissey appoints a bowling It is this kind of spirit that although very few residents Picadilly Circus. study. Hence the rationale commissioner to post score impresses incoming freshmen can put a finger on it, when The program was open to behind a summer program.
results in the bathrooms just and makes Morrissey consis­they are seniors and walk out engineering students of all The decision to go to Lon­to embarrass those who, for tently one of the top dorms the doors of Morrissey for the disciplines. Each student took don, as opposed to some otherone reason or another, cannot requested for residence. "No last time, they will look back two courses : engineering European city, was maderemember what they scored. matter where you live in the at their castle of friendship products liability and engine­more or less on the basis ofAgreeably, one of the most dorm," he continues, "you and silently say "Fight on for ering economics. Class trips necessity. "The College ofcherished traditions in Mor-inevitably meet a lot of Morrissey!'' 
were taken to projects such Engineering is the only col­as the Thames Barrier, a lege on campus without a unique flood barrier designed foreign language require­to protect London from the ment," said Lucey, "so our
Secrets from a year in Angers 
high tides which, though choices were limited to floods are rare, can cause bil­English-speakingTARA COSA CCI significant. Yet the feelings world. It is a "neat" (excuse lions of dollars in damages; countries .... And the projects accent writer that swell up inside of me my lack of original descrip­the Iron Bridge, an early In­that we travelled to are oneswhen I think of all the times I tion again) feeling to com­dustrial Revolution construc­you just can't find in this 
A
s lacking in creativity and got on trains heading for a municate with a Japanese tion and one of the first uses country. They are verydetailed description as it new and exciting destination, person, or even an English of iron in this capacity; and, unique."
may be, the response, "It was or heading home to the com­person in French (Many a great experience" has be­fort of my own room after a times we were lazy and this come my automatic answer week of weary travel, or even was not the case, but those Whether it was a fiery red the first few days I enjoyed to questions about my year on trains heading for unknown times don't count!). Perhaps sunset, an eleventh century sleeping late and taking long the Notre Dame Foreign destinations, are more impor­the most beautiful example of cathedral, or a bunch of old showers, which were luxuries Study Program in Angers, tant and exciting, and per­this feeling could be heard in men wearing berets and I was afraid to indulge in for France. Unfortunately, be­haps tell more about what my the International Choir of the playing a game of "boules" fear of fulfilling the American cause it has become so auto­experience was all about. university, which combined in the park, I feel that I was stereotype. By now the· whole matic, and because the time Another feeling that I often students of over 30 able to see beauty·wherever I experience seems so distant, since I was there is rapidly miss is the feeling of com­nationalities in the harmony went. Fortunately, this is one and even quite unreal. growing longer, I am becom­plete independence and re­of beautiful French music. of the lessons I have been The advantage to being ing more and more detached sponsibility. Every day pre­Living with a French fam­able to carry home with me, home is that some of the from my experiences and sented a challenge: to speak ily was comforting, yet also and I am seeing in my own most valuable frienships I have begun to take for and understand a different uncomfortable at times. I was surroundings more beauty made there were with people granted the year as a whole. language, to experience a always afraid of getting in than I ever noticed before. from Notre Dame who were 
It is impossible to sum up a new part of the French cul­their way or getting on their Finally, I cannot complete studying in Angers. It was so year spent in Europe to some­ture, to get through another bad side. At the same time I my brief and sentimental ac­helpful to have people around one who has never been there day, and, for me, to over­was overjoyed to be accepted count of the year witi:tout who could understand my before. The cultures, lifes­come or sUpress my desire to into their home, to share their describing the transition back frustrations, as well as my tyles, and outlooks are differ­be home. All of these were "family secrets" and their to "Americana." It was joys. It was fun to have ent; but even harder to hurdles which, while not al­lifestyles. I learned the most strange to say good-bye to people around with whom I describe, yet more meaning­ways difficult to overcome, about the French from sitting people I will probably never could make fun of annoying ful, are the changes that oc­and often even enjoyable, pro­at the dinner table with them see again, and especially to French habits. Looking back, cur within you--the feelings vided a very rewarding, satis­three or four times a week. those who were my "family" these were the things that you experience and the les­fying feeling that does not They helped me by being in­for eight months. A simple made the experience so sons that you learn. come from everyday life terested in my life and allow­"thank-you" could never rewarding for me. Because of 
For example, the experi­here. ing me to learn about theirs. come close to expressing the them, the transition has been ence of train travel, the most Another aspect of the year One of the things I appreci­gratititude I feel towards enjoyable, for I have friends common form of travel in in France which made it even ate the most about my year them for all that they gave to with which to remember it Europe, is generally unknown more valuable, came from abroad was the chance I had me. all. Reliving the experience to Americans. The concepts the fact that the university to see so many different kinds Once I arrived home, with other people makes it and the situations may be where' we studied was filled of beauty, and I learned to however, I quickly began to easier to recall the year with describable, but are not very with people from all over the take the time to enjoy them. feel as if I had never left. For laughter than with tears. 
-
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1988 
Meek~ expected big victory 
Associated Press 

HOT SPRINGS, Va. -It took eight different survival tests over the course of nearly a month, but Eric Meeks said he wasn't particularly surprised by his victory in the 88th U.S. amateur Championship. 
"I've played well the past year. I kind of felt like I was going to do something,'' Meeks, 23, of Walnut, Calif., said Sun­day after he won the U.S. amateur with a 7-and-6 victory over Danny Yates. 
Meeks, a recent graduate of Arizona, had failed to qualify for the U.S. amateur in his four prehous attempts. , 
But at the beginning of Au­gust, he and 4,311 other golfers with handicaps of 3.4 or lower began sectional qualifying at 66 sites around the nation. Their goal was to make the 291-golfer field that would advance to The Homestead, a mountain resort in the George Washington Na­
tional Forest where this year's 
championship was held. 
Because of past accomplish­. ments as amateurs, nine gol­
fers were exempt from sec­
tional qualifying, so the 4,312 
were vying for 282 spots in Hot 
Springs. 
Meeks had somewhat of an 
advantage, as his sectional was 
held at his home course, the 
Friendly Hills Country Club 
near Los Angeles. 
Once Meeks made it to The 
Homestead, the next test was 
36 holes of stroke play to trim 
the 291 golfers to a 64-man grid 
for four days of match play. 
Meeks finished the on-site qual­
ifying one shot away from win­
ning medalist honors. 
In order to get to the final, a 
player had to win five matches. 
Meeks disposed of his first two 
opponents by scores of 1-up and 
4-and-3, setting the stage for what proved to be his stiffest 

challenge of the tournament. 
That came from Jay Sigel, a 
Philadelphia insurance execu­
tive who was playing in his 22nd 
U.S. amateur and who in 1983 became the last man to suc­cessfully defend his title. Meeks needed 21·holes, but he met the challenge, defeating Sigel1-up. . 
Mter that, Meeks had 1-up 
victories over Robert Gamez, 
his former Arizona teammate, 
and David Toms, a Louisiana 
State junior and the reigning 
Southeast Conference cham­
pion. . 

Then it was on to· Sunday's 
scheduled 36-hole final against 
Yates, 38, an insirance agent 
from Atlanta who was playing 
in his ninth U.S. Amateur. 
Yates had not trailed in his five 
matches, which went a com­
. bined total of 78 holes. Meeks put an end to that streak immediately. 
California developer purchases· Seahawks 
very impressed by him." 
Family members said fac­tors in Behring's favor in­clude-that he is a lone inves­tor and has indicated the team will stay in Seattle. Eight Nordstrom family members must approve the 
sale, and there  was  repor­ 
tedly  no  opposition  within  
the family.  

NFL owners also must ap­prove the sale, and final ap­proval was expected within about three weeks. 
The family acquired full control in July, when they bought out the 49 percent in­terest of five minority partners for $35 million. 
The Seahawks' lease in the Kingdome runs through 2005. 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE The Nordstrom family, choosing to play store over football, has sold the Seattle Seahawks to a California developer who "isn't going to come running in here and make a lot of changes," fam­ily members say. 
Kenneth Behring, 60, of Danville, Calif., reportedly will pay about $80 million for the 13-year-old NFL fran­chise. John Nordstrom ac­cepted the offer in principle on Saturday. 
"He is a very solid per­son," Nordstrom, the Seahawks' managing gen­eral partner who has been handling the sale, said Mon­day of Behring. "You'll be 
n.a..-Notrv Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, IICC8PIS classified advertising from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.a..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggw Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must 
Classifieds be prapalc:l, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five chanlcters per day. 
NOTICES  I NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH ANY WEEKEND SOON. CAN OFFER RIDE  I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAME TIXS.272-8306  NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT OR GA. CALL TONY AT 1089  HORSE ENTHUSIAST SOUGHT! Inter­mediate English Rider to share board on  SENIORS. DON'T MISS THE FIRST IN­TERVIEWS. REGISTER AT CAREER  
BACK. DAVE-271-0758.  horse  (1st level dressage and started  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 4:30  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  NEED MONEY? WE DISTRIBUTE BOOKS. 10-20 FLEX HAS. PER WEEK  NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL HOME GAMES. 272.0058.  WILL TRADE TWO TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME FOR TWO TICKETS TO MIAMI GAME. OTHER TRADES FOR  over fences) in Elkhart-­South Bend area. ~ interested call 264-8468 days or 674·0314 evenings.  P.M. TUESDAY. BAING PROFILE AND $15 FEE.  YOUR  
$4+iR. 288·1002 BETWEEN 5 AND 7  NEED GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME.  MIAMI POSSIBLE LEAVE A MESSAGE  
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL  PM NOW  HIRING.  DOMINO'S  PIZZA.  239-5303 OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. ASK FOR SHIRLEY.  IN 379 STEPAN OR CALL JAKE AT n96 ON MONDAY OR TUESDAY.  lnterdenom'tl Bible Study group (Inter  MIKE CONWAY MIKE CONWAY MIKE CONWAY  
-­ MARK x11n USED TEXTBOOK5--ALL CLASSES! Bought & Sold--Best prices! PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph.233-2342  DRIVERS, PIZZA MAKERS, PHONE HELP. $4 HR. PLUS TIPS & MILEAGE. CALL AFTER 3:30 P.M. 277-2151 OR STOP AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE. AFTER SCHOOL SITTER, 2 CHILDREN, MON.-FRI., 3:15-5:45 P.M. MUST HAVE OWN CAR, SOME  MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and be in their band. My sister is in the Band of the Figl:lting IRISH. My parents need to be at the Michigar>ND game to prevent my siblings from killing each other and to see their beloved children at this game of high sentimental value. Help stop  WILL TRADE 2 ND-MICH TIX FOR 2 NO-MIAMI TIX. CALL 407-727-8354. NEED MICHIGAN TIX! CALL MIKE OR JAKE AT 288-2268 OR 287-8104.  Varsity Christian Fellowship): We had a good kickoff last week. Nice group of people, friendly athmosphere. So why don't you join us? Thursday, 7pm, in 309 Grace. Or call Jim (2831621) or Andreas (287 4855) for more info. MINORITY ENGINEERS  MIKE CONWAY DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x11n  
DRIVING  NECESSARY.  CALL  288­ needless violence. Sell me 3 tickets ana  FIRST  NSBE  MEETING  THURSDAY,  THE UNDERGROUND  
WORDPROCESSING  8428 AFTER 7 .P.M.  keep my family intact. $$ little or no ob­ HOME  GAME  FOOTBALL  TICKETS  SEPT. 1 AT 7:30 PM  THE UNDERGROUND  
237-1949  ject. Call 2804 or 272-7690.  NEEDED.  CALL 283-1143,  FLANNER  BCAC RM 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE  THE UNDERGROUND  
HALL # 626. ASK FOR TIM.  THE UNDERGROUND  
I LOST/FOUND., LOST: French book (Qu'est qui se passe?) Put In light green backback out­side bookstore by mistake. Please call X2865 LOST: Midway Airlines tix from DFW to LGA on IYI3 somewhere bt Nleuwland Ub and 2nd fl LaFortune on B-25. Very imp!. $$reward. call OJ 287-5502 LOST: Ring. Aat navy blue stone, engraved MC and 62 on side, monogrammed MMG, lost in Flenner Hall at end of spring semester. Great sen­timental value. Reward. Call collect (914) 238-8051. LOST:Biue 10 holder wHh 10, Detex & Key and calling card on my way from Dillon to Flanner. Call283-2558 Chrisay. Reward.  Tuition paying parents need MIAMI ana MICHIGAN GAs-Will pay $$ or TRADE USC or PENN STATE tix. Save a l~e. call3593. I NEED 3 STANFORD GA TICKETS!! IF YOU HAVE ANY OR KNOW WHERE I CAN GET SOME, PLEASE CALL MIC­HELLE X 4021 I NEED A RIDE TO GRAND RAPIDS, MI. FRI. SEPT. 2 CALL JENI X4430 3 FOR SALE BMW 2002, '72, sunrf, engine reblt-runs like oow. $4000 219-872-2636 MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and now n·s up to me to sell his blue NO "starler" jacket (size Medium) ijust like on page 4 of the bookstore catalog). Like new. Regularly $63.955 but it's yours lor only $30. Call 2804 or 272-7690 for this chance of a l~etirne.  1 want Michigan tixllllllllllllllllll Lots of them lor BIG $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP PENN STATE GA'S NEEDED. TOP PRICE PAID. 288-2841 MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX WANTED. 288-2841 HELPIII NEED GA TIX FOR MICH, STAN, MIA, RICE, PENN ST GAMES CALL CHRIS AT 272-0882 NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STANFORD PURDUE MIAMI OR USC. VERY SERIOUS $$$$$$$$$$ IN­VOLVED.CALL JORGE • 2065. Need 2 Mlch Tix x2707 Melissa NEED 4 ND-PENN ST. TIXI CALL COL· LECT DAVE OR KIM, 317-243-9430 (DAY), 317-839-9334 NIGHT.  HEYIII Need Stanford, Pitt & Mich tix. Call John at 3410. BEAT THE RUSH sell your Miami tickets nowl 4 recent and wealthy alums are looking lor 4 GA's or student tix. You name the price. Call Sera at x2851 or Mary at 289-9134. ABSOLUTELY MUST GET 1 MICH. Till, OR I'M IN BIG TROUBLE, HELP! $$$$*4639. PERSONALS BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION Loving couple, both college teachers, un­able to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible caring people ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical ex­penses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect. 317-743-0791  RUDE GIRL LOOKING TO MAKE BAND TO SING WITH SKA, FUNK, AND REGGAE INFLUENCES. IF INTER­ESTED, CALL 284-5414 WOMEN BEWARE: DENNIS, THE STUDMUFFIN ON 3RD FLOOR STANDFORD, IS LOOSEI LISTEN FOR FSSOUND F4 AT SMC ACTIVITIES NIGHTII ATTENTION NOTRE DAME ANAR­CHISTS Mandatory Organizational. Meeting Tuesday, August 30 7:30pm sharplll A through L enter via west door, M through z via east door Please bring a # 2 pencil, your $7.25 Activity Fee, and 3 (three) forms of 10, one of which must provide a current photograph. New members welcome! TTM, Happy 11th, Sweetness. I love you. CLH Hi, I'm Matt Breslin, junior class puppet.  OAR HOUSE open 'Ill 3 a.m. U.S. 31 North, one block south of HoUday Inn. ATTENTION SENIOR CLASS: Plllrk:k Coyne Janice Forre­FalthMcEntea Steve Persona Ricardo Delgado Debo,.h Galler Jackie Heehty p.....contact Kathleen at4220 about Senior Trip. WE CAN'T FIND YOU ANYWHEREIIIIIIIII Happy belated birthday Marly Sullivan from your favorite chicks in Farley. Paul ( 123 Alumni)--Rebecca says she lost something in your room last night. --A Concerned Citizen  
- FOR RENT FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 683· 8889-287-6389 BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ... 1-219-291­7153 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-3684-2118-{)955 ROOMMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY ST. $1251 MO. OWN ROOM, SHARE BATH CALL BILL, ED, OR SCOTT 287­7933 OR $TOP BY. WE DON'T GET PHONE UNTIL FRIDAY Furnished room, air, kncnen, phone line, near campus. 272-0615. 3 BEDROOM HOUSE, 810 HOWARD ST. $300MOeUTILITIES. DEPOSIT RE­QUIRED 288-1002  1980 DATSANSX 200 RUN GOOD SOME RUST 232 5762 ALL NEW GLEE CLUB MEMBERS TUXEDO FOR SALEI Very Ch•p ­call Mark Ill 1423 TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALE! T-PRINCE SPECTRUM cermnlc IK· queta wHh cover and pre-atrung lor $180. All lnterellled call Mark Ill 1423 TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, ORA 19"FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. MACMODEM FOR THE MACINTOSH. COMP. WITH ALL MACS. MANY FEA­TURES . CABLES,MANUALS,SOFTWARE INCL ASKING $350 CHUCK AT 3211  NEED 4 GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME GAME. CALL 284-5666 FOR $$$. FIRST $100 TAKES TWO GOOD TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME CALL LOU 2n­9691 HAVE BEEN TOLD TO GET ONE MIC· . HIGAN TICKET OR THE GOOD LORD WILL CALL ME HOME. CALL STEVE 1662 I will do ANYTHING in exchange lor either one student or one GA lor the Mic­higan game. Call Kerstin_at 4220. Please help me because I am desperate. NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIC· HIGAN GAME, WILL PAY$$$$! CALL BILL x1837 2 OR 4 TIX MICA-NO. CALL COLLECT 315-672-3617 AFTER 5 PM. NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 287-3311 DAYS 7-5.  "Leonard Conley gave the Irish a brief glimpse of the future in the final stanza with five carries lor 34 yards on a drive capped oH by his own six yard touchdown run for the game's final tally." Miami press guide Beat the rush Hate Miami now Beat the ruah. Send Jimmy Johnaon hate mall now. Write Jimmy Johnson ·at: Jimmy Johnson Care of Sports ·Information Office No. 1 Hurricane Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 Or better yet, call him at (305)-284-2674 Beat the rush. Hate Miami now.  I'll just sleep here--in the closet. Jeff "Hom-Dog" Drozda, So you're 21 today. You've come a long way since 2nd gradelll Hope you have a "lu~illing" time. (As a legal man now!) Have fun but don't lose your innocence! Happy Birlhdaylf Love, Theresa FREE WEEKENDS AT WYNONA LAKE MODEST SWIMWEARftiO DAN­CING;JUICY J, TERIFFIC T'S;JR CLASS PREs-PUPPET REGRESSION CLUB;AM PIE,FRED,MR HAP· PY,ZOO,LION,BACON;JOE'S STILL SINGLE ;IT'S ALL YOU CAN EAl';BEERS ON YOUR HEAD; LET'S BOND AGAIN SOON I 'WINDY CITY SHUTTLE" sponsored by the Student Activities Office will start Sat­urday, Sept. 3, departing from the Main Circle 9:45am. Tickets $10 at LaFortune lnlormalion Desk. NelCl shuttle will run Saturday, Sept. 17. Unversity 1.0. re­quired.  FARLEY'S FINEST IS FINER THAN EVER THE BLITZ WILL MEET ITS MATCH. "Leonard Conley gave the Irish a brief glimpse of the future in the final stanza with five carries for 34 yards on a drive capped off by his own six yard touchdown run lor the game's final tally." Miami press guide Beat the ruah Hate Miami now Beat the rush. Send Jimmy Johnson hate mall now. Write Jimmy Johnson at: Jimmy Johnson Care of Sports Information Office No. 1 Hurricane Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 Or better yet, call him al (305)-284-2674  
'---·  Efficiency apt. near N.D. $160 & $140 mo. Call 259-4943.  BMW 2002, '72, sunrf, engine reblt--runs like new. $4000 219-872-2636 Blue, full-size sola, excellent cond. 2 day  NEED (4) NOTRE DAME-PENN.STATE TICKETS! CALL COLLECT DAVE OR KIM, DAY 317-243-9430 OR NIGHT 317-839-9334.  I NEED BOOKS!  I DESPERATELY need 5 GA's lor Mic­higan. I can get by with 2 of those as student tix. My family is willing to pay a lot of$$$$$. Please call T.J. at 283-1837.  Beat the rush. Hate Miami now.  
beds wtorner table (sofas by day, twin  ROCKFEST 88  
WANTED  beds by night), perf. cond. 255-4048. ··································!····························· Small fridge, less than 6 months old $70; large microwave oven in great condition,  SELLING BIC PENS TO HIGHEST BID­DER. WITH PEN, 1 FREE MICHIGAN G.A. CALL LUIGI 1391.  I need a MATH 335 REAL ANALYSIS book and an EE 361 MICROCOM­PUTERS book. If you want to unload these old books, do me a favor, call Will  SPOT AND BONES THANX FOR CURING THE RICE BURNER. ARE WE EVEN YET? MUSH AND T-1-GRR-R  ROCKFEST 88 35 YEARS OF ROCK HISTORY SEPTEMBER 7  
instructions  etc.  $150.  Call  Gerry  at 2089 ... soon.  
HELP WANTED, DAYS AND NIGHTS APPLY IN PERSON MACRI'S DELl  (x.7125) ····························;.····:.........................~....  PENN STATE GAME 2 Tickets needed call John x3068 or leave name  DO YOU HAVE PROBLEMS CHEWING  
TICKETS TICKETS TICKETS Will buy tickets to any NO football game, home or away, student or GA. Call us today and get $ to buy those bargain­ TICKETS  I need 2 Miami GAs more than anyone else on this page. $$$$ x1609  SENIORS. DON'T MISS THE FIRST IN­TERVIEWS. REGISTER AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 4:30  DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL  GUM AND TALKING? HOW MANY GUM CHEWING INJURIES HAVE YOU SUFFERED THIS WEEK? HARD ROCK CHEWING INSTITUTE SPONSORS  
priced telClbooks. 3157.  Call 4601, 3155, or  NEED 1 STUDENT TX FOR MICHIGAN GAME X2756  NEED 1 STUDENT TX FOR MICHIGAN GAME X2756  P.M. TUESDAY. BRING PROFILE AND $15 FEE.  YOUR  MARK x11n  GUM CHEWING EMERGENCY FIRST AID CLASSES  

-


-----------~-------~~----~-­
Tuesday, August 30, 1988 
The Observer 

Committee defends dis 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Although Angel Myers' supporters in­sist that taking birth control pills caused her to test pos­itive for a steriod, the U.S. olympic Committee on Mon­day stood firmly behind its drug testing and the decision to remove her from the U.S. Olympic Swim Team. 
"We have total confidence in the integrity and validity (of the drug testing process),'' USOC spokes­man Mike Moran said. 
He said substances which birth control pills produce are very easily detectable and can be recognized im­mediately. 
"Birth control pills produce characteristics of a disqualifying substance, but the level and dosage (of the substance) is where it (disqualification) occurs," he said. 
Although the USOC will not identify the banned sub­stance involved in Myers' case, a statement released by her family said she had been informed that it was a steriod. 
Kirt Myers, who coaches 
Unsigned Solt still unhappy with Colts 

his daughter, released a statement Monday after­noon from the family's home at Americus, Ga., saying that she will appeal her removal from the U.S. team. 
"We feel that there are problems with the test and that there has been possible violations of the U.S. olym­pic Committee's protocol during the collection process of the samples and we hope to be able to present this in­formation at an administra­tive hearing this week," he said. 
He said the eadline forcer­tifying members of the U.S. olympic team is Thursday. 
"Angel firmly maintains that she has not taken any banned substance and that the test is in error," the statement said. "There must be some other expla­nation for the positive find. 
An earlier statement issued by the family said she had a prescription for Ortho­N ovum, a birth control pill which has nearly "identical characteristics to the steroid the USOC claims (Myers) was testing positive for." 
Although Myers' original 
~~*
Angel Myers was disqualified from the Seoul Olympics after she tested positive for use of a banned drug. Myers had a shot to win five swimming medals. 
appeal to the U.S. swim 

Myers, 21, set two national Team were turned down, if records in the recent trials that group decides she has a and had a shot a winning five 
valid appeal, it could ask the medals in swimming at the USOC to reconsider it. 

Seoul Games. 
day. 
The Colts reduced their NFL roster to the 47-player limit by cutting 11 and placing defen­sive back John Baylor and de­fensive end Glen Collins on in­jured reserve. 
Baylor, a fifth-round draft pick from Southern Mississip­pi, is sidelined with a wrist in­jury. Collins, a six-year vet­eran, is out with a shoulder injury. 
Among those waived were Kenney, a 12th-round draft pick 
Think 
Continued from page 16 
be answered. But the Good Lord must not have realized I was talking about a basketball court. 
Remember all those experts who said a couple of years ago that the Texas Rangers were an up-and-coming team? Yeah, that's right, the same people who called the Cincinnati Reds a future dynasty. Anybody heard from one of those experts latelv? 
Uh oh. It's almost Olympic from Wisconsin-Stevens Point, and Murray, a third-year vet­eran who came to the Colts in a trade with Washington in 1986 and caught 22 passes for 373 yards and three touchdowns over the past two seasons. 

The cuts left Indianapolis with five wide receivers and three running backs. One of the receivers, starter Bill Brooks, is listed as doubtful for Sun­day's game in the Hoosier Dome because of a knee sprain 
time again. Time to brace our­selves for all those people gath­ered around the TV set scream­ing their brains out for the Americans to beat Uruguay in team handball. The funny part is looking out for the one person in that crowd who starts talking strategy and pretending he's actually seen a team handball match in his life. 
Speaking of Olympicmania, I hear if you haven't already planned that vacation for Seattle in 1990, you may as well forget it. The Goodwill Games are heading there, and al­though the Great Northwest is 
all it can to for 


ACTMTIES NIGHT SPECIAL Bring your own blank, white or light colored shirt, towel, apron, pillow case and we'II print the N.D. Hoc Lo o on it .... FREE! 



page 11 
NO names captains 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame basketball co­
ach Digger Phelps has an­
nounced the team co-captains 
for the 1988-89 season and also 
has named a former Irish cap­
tain as graduate assistant. 
Junior guards Jamere Jack­son and Joe Fredrick have been selected as Notre Dame's new co-captains. 
"There two individuals have shown by what they do on the basketball floor, by what they do in the classroom and by what they've been as people off the court -that they deserve to be co-captains of this team based on all three facets," Phelps said. 
Jackson, from Peoria, Ill., started 22 games as a sopho­more -more than any other re­turning Irish player. He averaged 5.3 points and 1.3 rebounds per game. Fredrick, of Cincinnati, Ohio, came on strong late in his sophomore campaign to average 7.7 points and 1.2 rebounds per game. 
Former Irish captain Joe Dolan has joined the coaching staff as a graduate assistant. Dolan, a 6-8, 230-pound forward for the Irish, spent the last year playing professionally in En­gland for the Manchester United team. 
A Point Pleasant, N.J., na­tive, Dolan averaged 5.9 points and 5.4 rebounds per game during his four-year career. He was a seventh-round draft choice of the New Jersey Nets in 1986 and stayed with the team until its final cut. 
In other basketball news, junior forward Keith Robinson probably won't be at full strength when the Irish open practice. He is recovering from a broken bone in his right foot . 

the media and spectator onslaught, there are some things you just can't control. Oops, maybe I have to refresh your memory on this one. Ted Turner put on an Olympic-type sports event between the U.S. and USSR in Moscow during the summer of 1986. He televised it on WTBS, and the spectacle grabbed about as much fan interest as a Braves­Padres showdown in late Sep­
tember. 
Whew, it's been fun getting 
all that off my chest, but my 
bus to Graceland, I mean 
Kalamazoo, has just arrived. 
Time to continue the search. 


r-------------------------~------------­
page 12 The Observer 
Ageless Fisk continuing assault on record books 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Carlton Fisk stands so tall and proud he al­most looks arrogant. 
Maybe it's because at age 40 he's just as strong and more productive than players half his age. And his ability to come through in a pinch is becoming legend. 
The Boston Red Sox let him go by way of free agency al­most a decade ago, assuming his best years were already over. 
And the Chicago White Sox 

tried several times to shove 
him into the background but 
keep bringing him back. 
"I have pride in myself and I pride myself in the job that I do," said the 6-foot-2 Fisk, who recently caught his 1,807th game -surpassing Hall of Farner Rick Ferrell and moving into fourth place on the all-time list for games caught. 
"He has that ability to rise to the occasion," Chicago manager Jim Fregosi said. 
"He'll break a lot of records, and by the time he's through he'll have hit more home runs than any catcher in history. There's no question in my mind he'll be in the Hall of Fame" 
Johnny Bench is the all-time leader with 327 home runs as a catcher, and Hall of Farner Yogi Berra is second with 306. 
Fisk, who has 297, would have caught Berra by now ex­cept for a broken hand that sidelined him for 2% months last spring. 
Earlier this month, Fisk passed Ferrell in a game at Detroit, going 5-for-5 for the first time in his 17-year career. 
"First time in 40 years," Fisk said. "I had never had five hits in a game little league, high school or minor leagues." 
And the broken hand he suf­fered in New York? 
"It was just another broken bone," Fisk said. "I was start­ing to swing the bat real well and I was looking to hit 30 home runs at the age of 40. No catcher at my age had ever done that." 
Between the seriousness of the injury and his age, did he consider quitting? 
"No, I never gave any thought of not playing again," he said. "It was just a matter of not knowing if I would be ef­fective when I started playing again." 
Indeed Fisk is no stranger to injuries. There was major knee con­

struction in 1974. "I was told I'd never play again." 
Later he had an elbow oper­ation. "They told me I'd never throw again." 
There were other burdens be­sides injuries. 
In 1986, with a young catcher named Joel Skinner, the White Sox decided to turn Fisk into an outfielder. Skinner couldn't hit and Fisk couldn't play left field. Skinner was traded and Fisk went back to catching. 
In 1987, it was young Ron Karkovice. Fisk was converted to backup catcher and desig­nated hitter. But Karkovice didn't hit and again Fisk went back to catching. 
How does he keep going? 

"When you're young and full of energy, you don't have to do much. You go along with what God gave you. But when you get older, you have to work harder," said Fisk, now a fit­ness advocate. 
The future? 

"That's two hours from now," said Fisk, looking up at the clock before gametime. 
"But really, I don't know. Baseball has been a majority of my life. I don't know if I can find anything that can make the same demands. That con­cerns me when I get done playing." 
•

UK players rema1n silent 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON--Three mem­bers of the University of Ken­tucky basketball team refused to touch on specific aspects of an NCAA investigation of the program, but all said the team has to band together. 
"We obviously have our backs against the wall," said sophomore guard Sean Sutton. "But we've got to try and put all of this in the backs of our minds. We can't sit around and soak in our sorrows." 
The Kentucky athletic depar­tment allowed Sutton, forward Eric Manuel and center LeRon Ellis to talk to reporters Wed­nesday -the first time any players have responded to questions since the NCAA probe began. 
Line 
Continued from page 16 
really appreciate the way the students helped the staff by keeping these in order. It makes everything run a lot easier." 
The compliments went both ways. 
"The guys coordinating it all did a great job," said Sanger, who came away with the first ticket distributed. "We got in there and there was no need to run around and fight off a crowd." 
The first group, of Sanger and company, arrived at the Joyce ACC Friday morning at 8 a.m. but were shooed away by security later that day. An­other attempt to be the early birds was foiled and the group was told not to come back until sunrise Sunday. Around 1 a.m. on Sunday they returned and slept in a car in the parking lot. 
"We took turns sleeping and 
This summer the Wildcats have been plagued with rumors and allegations surrounding a controversy that began when assistant basketball coach Dwane Casey sent a package in March to the father of recruit Chris Mills that allegedly con­tained $1,000. 
Casey denied sending the money, and Mills and his fa­ther, Claud, said they did not receive any. 
But an April14 story in The Los Angeles Daily News detail­ing the incident sparked an NCAA investigation into Ken­tucky's basketball program, The NCAA has already issued one allegation concerning the package and has told the school to expect about 10 more regard­ing different phases of its pro­gram any day. 
three times we saw somebody dent tickets available for the coming so we'd run up to the 1988 home football season. door to make sure we were first," said Delaney, "but it Ticket sales continue today was always our own guys com­for juniors, with sophomore ing to relieve us." and graduate student sales on 
At 5 a.m. Sunday, they took Wednesday and freshman their place next to the Gate 10 ticket distribution on door and secured the best stu-Thursday. 
................. 
Happy 
19th Birthd Todd 
With love from, 
Chelley, Kevin, & Mark 

Tuesday, August 30, 1988 
NFL suspends Taylor after second offense 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, 
N.J. -Seven-time All-Pro linebacker Lawrence Taylor of the New York Giants, who had vowed to make this his best season, was suspended for 30 days on Monday for violating the NFL's sub­stance abuse policy for a second time. 
Coach Bill Parcells and NFL spokesman Joe Browne said Taylor was suspended after testing positive follow­ing "a recent" mandatory preseason drug test. They declined to disclose what substance Taylor was abusing. 
Taylor had acknowledged that he underwent treatment for a cocaine problem in 1986. 
He followed with his finest season as the Giants went on to win the Super Bowl, be­coming only the second de­fensive player in league his­tory to be named the NFL's most valuable player and setting a club record with 20 sacks. 
The suspension means Taylor will miss four games, including the season opener next Monday night against the Super Bowl champion Washington Redskins. 
"Obviously when you lose a player of that nature, it will have an effect," said Parcells, who learned that All-Pro Carl Banks signed a contract Monday.
"However, that player could have been hurt in the first play of practice on Wed­nesday and we'd have had to make an adjustment." 
"I am a little surprised," added Parcells, a hard-liner on drug problems. "You don't expect these types of things. I had every reason to believe everything was all right with Taylor." 
Taylor, 29, is the ninth player suspended this sum­mer for substance abuse problems. He stands to lose $62,500 a game from his $1 million salary. 
Parcells did not know whe­ther Taylor would undergo rehabilitation during his suspension. Gary Kovach, Taylor's agent, was not taking telephone calls from the media. 
Taylor was not available for comment. He must stay away from the Giants train­ing facilities during his suspension. 
Most of Taylor's team­mates declined to talk about the suspension. 
"In practices and games I couldn't see anything," cor­nerback Perry Williams said. "He was the same way he has always been, enthu­siastic. He was giving his all." 
...........~•.,..•~••4.,........._.~..,. lo\.m,..;v.eoAss,..aNgveoA.,..2N39v·~73,..3,...,6v.~w~w~w~~ 

"It's been difficult," said El­lis, also a sophomore. "A lot of people aren't very high on us, for whatever reason. They don't even expect us to win more than we lose this year, and that's pretty bad. 
"Everybody will have to push themselves real hard for us to be successful because we're so young." 
And Ellis, who announced last spring that he was consid­ering a transfer, has now shelved those thoughts. 
Ellis said the team was equipped to handle contro­versy. 
"We've all been pushed to be No. 1 throughout our lives. So we're more set to handle pres­sure," he said. "I don't think we've really been affected by all this." 


Burns Rent-Ails 

2.5 Cubic Foot 
Refrigerator $45 I School Year 
Free Delivery and Pickup Available 
332 

W. Mishawaka Ave. 
259-2833 

COUNSELINE 
Volunteers Wanted IlL~-::· 
~~<************ 
we're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed tor now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if... 
-You want to help provide a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
-You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work In a nice study environment {the number and manner of handling calls Is rarelydemanding) -You could use something extra to 
look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for Tim at the University Counseling Center or just leave a 
Tuesday, August 30, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Wilson one of many veterans released 
Associated Press 
Quarterback Marc Wilson, who spent five years trying to become the solution to the Los Angeles Raiders' quarterback problem, was told Monday that he wasn't the answer in Green Bay either. 
But Wilson, an eight-year NFL veteran, wasn't the only "name" cut on a typical last Monday of the NFL preseason, a day of heartbreak not only for rookies and free agents, but for dozens of veterans. 
"I know what the business is like, how ruthless it can be," said 32-year-old Doug Betters, a one-time Pro Bowl defensive end and 11-year veteran waived by Miami. "I was just an insurance policy the last two years. I don't think I was ever given a chance to compete for a starting job." 
Among the other veterans to go were a group with recent Super Bowl rings: tight end Clint Didier and running back Keith Griffin of the defending champion Washingon Redskins; wide receiver Stacy Robinson, guard Chris Godfrey and safety Greg Lasker of the New York Giants' 1986 cham­pions; and wide receiver Keith Ortego and defensive back Reggie Phillips, who returned an interception 26 yards for a touchdown in Chicago's 46-10 Super Bowl victory over New England after the 1985 season. 
Among the other cuts were Paul McFadden, whose 91 field goals were more than any Philadelphia Eagle in history; strong safety Lester Lyles, a two-year starter for the New York Jets; wide receiver Frankie Neal, Green Bay's second-leading receiver as a rookie last year with 36 recep­tions; wide receiver Mike Jones, New Orleans' leading receiver in 1986; and three other Super Bowl veterans: running back Gene Lang and defensive back Steve Wilson of Denver and defensive lineman Jerome Sally of the Giants' 1986 team, who was cut by the Colts. 

In addition, veteran tight end Kellen Winslow, once an All­Pro, was suspended by San Diego for refusing to play. Winslow, who suffered a severe knee injury in 1984, said he was unfit; the Chargers said he was fit. 
Cincinnati waived their rights to two holdouts, fullback Larry Kinnebrew and defen­sive back Robert Jackson, leaving them free to sign with anyone. 
Center Mike Baab was traded to New England for a draft choice by Cleveland, which also cut veteran defen-

JOIN OUR CREW! 
A JOB THATPAVS IN 
MANY WAYS. Why not work a few hours a week 
at your nearby 

Rax Restaurant! 
WE OFFER: 
Flexible Scheduling Paid Training 50°/o Meal Discount 10°/o Off-duty Meal Discount For Yourself & Family Furnished Uniforms Pleasant, Upbeat Work Environment Hiring Above Minumum Wage 
Located at: 5277d US 33 North 
Equal Opportunity Employer MFAI 
in NFL 
sive linemen Al "Bubba" Baker and Dave Puzzuoli. Baker was the defensive rookie of the year with St. Louis in 1978. 
And there was a trade involv­

ing two No. 1 draft choices the 
New Orleans Saints sent their 
top pick of last year, defensive 
lineman Shawn Knight, to Den­
ver for their first pick this year, 
nose tackle Ted Gregory. The 
6-foot-6 288-pound Knight was a 
disappointment for the Saints; 
Gregory has been injured. 
There also appeared to be 

considerable stashing of 
promising players on injured 
reserve by the more talent­
laden teams. 
Rain wins at Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The 1988 U.S. 

Open started the way last 
year's tournament ended-with 
rain. 
Steady showers washed out 

opening day Monday at the Na­
tional Tennis Center 90 minutes 
after play began. 
Only five matches were com­

pleted, and only one of those 
involved a seeded player, No. 
11 Zina Garrison's 6-0, 6-3 vic­
tory over Nicole Provis. 
Second-seeded Mats 

Wilander was leading former 
NCAA champion Greg Holmes 
6-2, 6-1, 1-2 when play was 
halted. 
No other men's seed got to 

play a single point. 
The wet scene was reminis­

cent of the final Sunday at last 
year's Open when rain forced 
the men's final between Ivan 
Lendl and Mats Wilander to be 
delayed until Monday. 
Garrison beat the rain by 

beating Provis in just 59 
minutes. 
"I was really nervous to play the first match on the first day of the tournament," she said. "I didn't want to be the first seed to go out." 
Garrison had reason to be 

wary of Provis, an 18-year-old 
Australian who reached the 
semifinals at the French Open 
this year. But Provis, ranked 
34th in the world, barely 
avoided a shutout. 
Garrison won the first 11 games before Provis staged a mini-rally and pulled to within 5-3 in the second set. But Gar­rison broke back in the next game to end the match. 
"I've been playing some really good tennis, although my ranking doesn't show it," she said. "I've reached the semis or quarters of most of the tour­naments I've played in. 
"For the first time in my life, I'm totally committed to being a professional tennis player. I feel good about that and I feel good about myself." 
Lend! is seeking his fourth straight Open title, but he is having an off year. If he doesn't win here, it will be the first time since 1983 that he has gone through a year without winning at least one Grand Slam title. 
While Lendl would settle for one major title in 1988, Steffi Graf wants to win them all. 
If she wins the Open, the 19­year-old West German will be­come the first player since Margaret Court in 1970 to sweep the four Grand Slam events in the same year. 

page 14 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
NO All-Sports passes are available at a table set up outside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Hours will be the same as football ticket hours. The cost is $10 and admits one to all home varsity events for soccer, hockey, volley­ball, baseball, wrestling, women's basketball and indoor track. The pass also grants special discounts at South Marriott restaurant and lounge whenever presented. -The Observer 
The NO Crew team will begin rowing this afternoon for all varsity members. Rowers should meet at the boat­house at 4:30p.m. and bring proof of insurance. Any fac­ulty members or graduate students wishing to help coach should contact Mike Hammett at x3223. -The Observer 
Off-Campus football is hoping to begin practice later this week. Anyone interested in coaching or playing for the team should call Pete Walsh at 289-8408. -The Ob­server 
The Off-Campus soccer team will hold a practice sometime this week. Anyone interested in playing for the team should call 288-8345. -The Observer 
The NO hockey team will hold a meeting for all prospective players Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the Joyce ACC football auditorium. -The Observer 
The NO wrestling team will have a mandatory meeting Monday, Sept. 5, at 3:30p.m. for anyone interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be held at Coach Fran McCann's office located on the second floor of the Joyce ACC in the east wing near the pool. -The Observer 
The Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament will be Saturday, Sept. 3 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 registration fee and must have a minimum of two girls. Proceeds will be donated to Dis­mas House. Signups will be held Monday and Tuesday in both dining halls at breakfast and dinner. Any questions should be directed to Kris Malaker at x1915 or Rachel Lyons at x2895. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Nebraska closing gap on No. 1 Florida State 
Associated Press 
Following Nebraska's 23-14 victory over Texas A&M in the Kickoff Classic on Saturday night, Coach Tom Osborne was asked if he thought the second­ranked Cornhuskers deserved to be No. 1. 
"I'll let the voters decide," Osborne said. 
The voters in the Associated Press' first regular-season col­lege football poll decided Mon­day that Nebraska is still No. 2 -but by a much closer margin than in the preseason rankings. 
Florida State remained No. 1 by receiving 41 of 53 first-place votes and 1,032 of a possible 1,060 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. Nebraska received four first-place votes and 939 points. 
In the preseason poll, Florida State led 44-2 in first-place bal­lots -60 voters participated -and 1,161-952 in total points. 
"It's something I've always wanted -unbeaten, untied, un-
Run 
Continued from page 16 
ever been around. Yes, he might be a potential superstar, but he knows we have other people who need to carry the ball, too." 
Two of those people figure to be Johnson and Banks. Holtz has not indicated which of his top fullbacks will start against scored upon, No. 1 in the na­tion," joked Florida State Co­ach Bobby Bowden, whose team opens next Saturday night against defending na­tional champion Miami, ranked No. 6 this week. "If I didn't have to play that schedule (the Seminoles also face nationally ranked Clem­son and Michigan State in Sep­tember), I would be happy. If it wasn't for the games, I'd have it made." 
By losing the Kickoff Classic, the only game played thus far, Texas A&M fell out of the Top Ten, slipping from lOth to 11th. 
This week's 20 ranked teams are the same as in the preseason poll, but there was some minor shuffling in the or­der. 
Oklahoma held onto third place with one first-place vote and 845 points, Clemson remained fourth with three first-place ballots and 832 points, and UCLA is again No. 5 with two first-place votes and 754 points. 
Michigan, but you can bet the other will be in the game not too long after the first play. 
"We consider them both starters," Strong noted. ''They've got a lot of talent, and with the type of running we do, we need two fullbacks ready to run." 
Johnson scored 11 times on 78 carries last year, or nearly once every seven times he carried the ball. He picked up 366 yards, while Banks rushed for 212 yards on 54 carries. 
The Observer 

Dodgers have assumed a commanding lead In the National League West over Houston, San Francisco and Cincinnati. 
Dodgers continue win streak 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL -Alfredo Griffin hit his first home run of the season and 20-year-old Ramon Martinez won his first major league game as the Los An­geles Dodgers edged the · Montreal Expos 2-1 Monday night for their fourth straight victory. 
With the score tied 1-1 in the eighth1 Griffin homered with one out over the right-field fence to send the Expos to their 13th loss in 18 games. 
Ramon Martinez, 1-1, in only his fourth career game, went seven innings allowing seven hits and an unearned run to beat veteran Dennis Martinez. Jay Howell finished the game for his 17th save. 
Mets 6, Padres 0 
David Cone pitched a one­hitter and rookie Gregg Jef­feries had three hits, including his first major league home run, as the New York Mets beat the San Diego Padres 6-0 Mon­day night. 
The Mets have won six of their last seven games, and maintained a 6%-game lead in the National League East over second-place Pittsburgh. 
Jack McKeon, manager of the Padres, played the game under protest. Scheduled to start at 7:35p.m., the start was 

Welcome Back Students!! 
To learn more about THE HOLY CROSS FATHERS AND BROTHERS 
Stop by and visit our display 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT '88 TUESDAY, AUG. 30th 7-10 pm STEPAN CENTER 
• 
or contact 

Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocations Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 

pushed back 10 minutes be­cause of rain, but it actually began at 7:55. 
Phillies 3, Giants o 
Shane Rawley allowed four hits for six innings in his first start since coming off the dis­abled list and Bob Dernier stole home as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the San Francisco Giants 3-0 Monday night. 
The Phillies snapped a five­game losing streak as they won for the second time in the last 15 games. It was the Giants' fifth loss in their last six games. 
Rawley, out with a strained left shoulder since Aug. 2, struck out five and walked four. Rawley, 6-13, had lost seven straight before he was dis­abled. 
Cardinals 3, Braves 2 
Pedro Guerrero hit a three­run homer to lead the St. Louis Cardinals past the Atlanta Braves 3-2 Monday night. 
Guerrero's sixth home run of the season followed two-out singles by Vince Coleman and Ozzie Smith in the third inning off Rick 1\~~lUer, 9-12, after the Braves had ta.11..::., a 2-0 lead in the first. 
AP Photo Mike Sharperson and the Los Angeles Dod,gers won their fourth straight game Monday night with a 2-1 victory over the Montreal Expos. The 
Pirates 8, Reds 1 

Andy Van Slyke's two-run double highlighted a four-run first inning that shook Pit­tsburgh out of a scoring slump as the Pirates beat the Cincin­nati Reds, 8-1, Monday night. 
The Pirates, who had scored just 22 runs in their last 12 games, batted around in the first inning off rookie Keith Brown, 1-1. The right-hander lasted just 1-3 of an inning in his second major-league start. 
Twins 3, Rangers 2 
John Moses' RBI single 
capped a three-run second in­
ning Monday night and the Min­
nesota Twins beat the Texas 
Rangers 3-2. 

The Twins strung together 
five singles with two outs in the 
second. Brian Harper and 
Randy Bush started the out­
burst and Greg Gagne, Al New­
man and Moses followed with 
run-scoring hits. 

Blue Jays 6, Brewers 1 
George Bell hit a three-run homer and Lloyd Moseby had three hits Monday night, leading the Toronto Blue Jays over the Milwaukee Brewers 6­1. 
Tuesday, August 30, 1988 Ttie Observer page 15 
~CAMPUS 
2:20 p.m. Department of Mathematics Short Course "Derived Category Techniques in Algebra" by Profes­sor Ed Cline, Clark University, room 214 Math Building. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Films "The Cheat," directed by Cecil B. DeMille, Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Films "Romeo and Juliet," directed by Franco Zefferelli, An­nenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's. 
Italian Beef Sandwich Lasagna Roast Turkey Breast Fettucini Alfredo Shrimp Fried Rice Rotini in Clam Sauce Baked Noodle Casserole Deli Bar 
Join The Observer 

COMICS 
~loom County 
• 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Time period 53 Spanish title 36 Actress 54 Twain novel 
1 U.S. Coast Farrow 63 SW Asian Guard woman 37 Eye country5 Pile neatly membrane 64 Proportion 

10 Throat-clear-38 Assistant 65 Money ing sound 40 Main artery exchange fee 14 Roofed~e 42 Italian wine .66 Having all 
15 -d'hote center one's marbles 16 Opposite of yep 43 Mentally 67 Holding device 

17 British Navy defective 68-and woman person robbers 
18 Foreigner 45 Son of Gad: 69 Seattle-,
19 Speaker of Gen.46:16 
1977 Derby
baseball 46 Moray, e.g. winner 20 Scarlet 47 A king of 70 Pulls 
weaverbird 
Judea 71 Gaelic 
23 Ott or Torme 48 Thanksgiving 24 Liquid meas. Day sauce DOWN 25 "-Hill" source 
1 Stitches 1940 song' 51 Ration-book 2 Segment 

30 Auriculate agcy. 3 Assert 4 Change a title 5 Groom, e.g. 6 Falsehood, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

sometimes 7 Red powder used in India 8 Priests and bishops, e.g. 


9 Nairobi is its 27 Below 
capital 28 Ebro is one 10 Oppositionist 29 More unusual 11 Cornucopia 31 Mindanao lZ Long heroic native 
poem 32 Part of a 13 Engage, as stairway 
gears 33 Be admitted 21 Spider network 34 Bettor's­22 Escape double 25 Sandy shore 37 Fallers on 26 River in Bacharach's 
France head 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 

Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 

Scene from "Return of the Nose of Dr. Verluccl." 

CHECK OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS-WEEK: 
CTIVITIES NIGHT:' ·cARNIVAL 

.
-

AT STEPAN CENTER TUES., AUGUST 30 7PM 

39 Ike's range 
command 56 Walking aid 41--la~la 57 "What Maisie 44 False god -":H. 48 Occult James 
doctrine 58 Common Latin 49 Lad abbr. 50 Write on the 59 Hoarfrost 
front of a bill 60 Cassin! or 52 Sit Stravinsky 54 Sibilant sound 81 Bites 55 Soviet 62 Kind of cone or 
mountain dive 
Gary Larson 

.. 

SATURDAY,SEPT.3RD 6-10 PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
INFORMATION AND SIGN~UPS FOR NO FOOD! MOSICI GAMES & PRIZES! CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS 50 CENT TICKETS FOR EACH EVENT. 
SPONSORED BY N.D. STUDENT UNION BOARD 
• 
Sports 
Tuesday, August 30, 1988
gage 16 
. 

..­
(Hint to those not 
(c'mon 

.. 

Irish running backs will soon be scoring real touchdowns 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Editor 

Every practice the Notre Dame ballcarriers are sup­posed to picture themselves scoring touchdowns against Michigan, Mia111i and the other Irish opponents. 
Chances are the real TD's are on their way, although in­juries to Anthony Johnson and Tony Brooks are letting some of the younger backs get in on the action in recent workouts. 
"We try to instill in our run­ning backs the idea that they can be great," Notre Dame running backs coach Mike Strong said. "We try to make every run in practice as close to a game-situation as possi­ble." 
Riding an exercise bicycle is not Brooks' idea of a game­situation, but the sophomore back-up tailback peddled for 30 minutes Monday to keep off the left foot he fractured in prac­tice late last week. He said he 
' hopes to be running plays sometime this week in a padded shoe. "It's not a lot of pain or anything, but it's something you know is there," Brooks said. "The shoe has reinforced steel in it, and the insole will shift the pressure when I run. 
I'm really motivated to get back out there." 
Johnson has a minor ankle in­jury, and also is expected to take the field sometime this week. 
Freshman Rodney Culver 

from Detroit has been working behind starting tailback Mark Green in practice, along with (oh no, not again) Ricky Wat­ters. Yes, Watters saw time at tailback Monday after making the move to flanker at the end of the spring to try to fill the gap left by Tim Brown's graduation. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz said he plans to keep Watters in the flanker slot if possible. 
Culver has made the most of his opportunity, gaining 56 yards on 17 carries in Satur-

The Observer I Rob Regovich  
Several students waited long hours at the JACC  for  juniors, Wednesday  for  sophomores  and  
Monday to purchase tickets for the upcoming  Thursday for freshmen. Brian O'Gara details the  
football season. Sales of tickets continue today  hoopla surrounding the tickets below.  

Stubborn residents of Pangborn buy first season football tickets 

By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 

Section 28. Row 18. Seat 22. 
That was the first ticket sold to a Notre Dame student Mon­day during the opening day of football ticket distribution. And it was that seat and several like it at the 50-yard line that in­spired approximately 100 seniors, led by Pangborn resi­dents Warren Sanger, Bob Heckler, John Delaney and Bob Costello, to camp out at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. 
The quest for 50-yard line seats could potentially create an anxious and restless crowd 
day's scrimmage. Only Green ran for more. 
At fullback, sophomore Braxston Banks has been car­rying most of the load in Johnson's absence, while soph­omore Ryan Mihalko has been working behind Banks. 
But when this backfield is at full strength, it ranks as one of the top groups in the nation. In fact The Sporting News tabbed the Notre Dame backfield best in the country. 
"They're professional writ­ers, they said it and I can deal with it," said Brooks of the rating. "Seriously, "though, I'd say if not the best, at least one of the best. We don't have any superstars, and that makes everyone give 100 percent all the time." 
Green has led the Irish in rushing each of the last two years with 406 and 861 yards, respectively, in his sophomore and junior years. The senior tri-captairi has great hands as well as great moves, finishing second only to Brown in recep­tions the last two seasons. 
"Mark Green is one of the better college running backs in the country," Strong said. "He has great work habits and is the most unselfish player I've 
See RUN, page 14 

as the 1:30 p.m. window­opening time approaches, but ticket manager Bubba Cunnin­gham had nothing but praise for the crowd outside Gate 10 Monday. 
"I'd like to thank the senjors," said Cunningham as the line of approximately 400 moved past him methodically as the windows opened. "The students were really good about keeping things in order and keeping this place clean." 
Once the doors did open, only 10 people per line were allowed in the lobby to purchase tickets at the five windows open. Not only did this eliminate any type of mob-like crowding to reach the windows first, but it also allowed the ticket distributers to hear the students purchasing tickets. 
The line seemed shorter than those of previous years, but it stayed consistent in size throughout the afternoon as students made their way over after classes ended and into the evening. 
"In previous years this day has been kind of a mess," said Jim Murphy, Joyce ACC Crowd Control Supervisor. "But this has been the best I've seen. We 
See LINE, page 12 

-


