
Irish Extra Notre Dame vs. Penn State  ~etc. ~rp\ Peking Opera at N D ~Christmas Specials  Heat wave Sunny and warmer Friday. High around 40. Clear and not as cold Friday night. Low in the lower 30s.  ' I-::0: ,, '  


VOL. XXII, N0.62 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Shuttle I au nch delayed 
Associated Press about the threat of this ... so serious damage to the shuttle's it came as no surprise." wings. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­The astronauts themselves Col. John Madura, an Air Weather permitting, NASA will were not heard from publicly Force weatherman, said the try again Friday to send At­because NASA, operating un­storm front that caused the lantis on a secret military mis­der strict Air Force secrecy re­problems would be offshore sion. Thursday's attempt was quirements, did not carry the Friday but could be followed by scrubbed due to violently shift­usual shuttle-to-launch control strong ground winds that might ing 104 mph winds in the conversations over its radio affect a launch. shuttle's flight path. Sources said the countdown, 
Officials said they would look circuit. blacked out publicly for secur­at the forecast late Thursday Using all the resources at its ity reasons, had been held before giving a go-ahead to fuel command--high-altitude wea­twice for one-hour periods. It the spacecraft again for a ther balloons, radar and a was allowed to proceed to the launch Friday in a three-hour shuttle pilot flying through the nine-minute-to-launch mark so period beginning at 6:32 a.m. clouds--NASA continuously that quick advantage could be EST. NASA officials said that, sampled the weather before fi­taken of a break in the weather. if the weather still looks bad, nally calling it quits. None came. they will delay the launch until "We were watching the wea­After the scrub, technicians Saturday. ther all the way and finally immediately started draining 
"We're going to take a hard scrubbed due to the winds," the half-million gallons of su­look at the weather again," Sieck said. "There was no hope percold fuel that feed the said launch director Bob Sieck. we were going to get out of the shuttle's three main engines. "If it is clearly a no-go tomor­situation." NASA's practice is to go row, we don't want to exercise through the loading and un­the launch team, the crew and Rain had left the area, and loading cycle only twice in a the systems." skies had begun clearing, but 48-hour period, then calling a 
Navy Cmdr. Robert Gibson eight miles above the Atlantic two-day break to give tech­and his four-man military Ocean, winds exceeded hur­nicians a rest. If weather inter­crew, dressed in bulky flight ricane force. Lawrence Wil­feres with a fueled shuttle suits, had been lying on their liams, a NASA engineer, said again on Friday, the liftoff will 
backs in cabin seats for nearly the blasts were so powerful and be delayed at least until Sun­five hours Thursday when the erratic that the shuttle's com­day. decision was made to scrub. puter could not be 
"They took it in stride; so did programmed to safely adjust The scrub extended Gibson's the rest of the team," Sieck its flight path. shuttle record for suiting up said. "We've been talking Such winds could cause and getting ready to fly. 

Mexican president inaugurated \ 
Associated Press congress before Salinas' in­country . . . but firm in main­auguration. taining order and the constitu­
MEXICO CITY-Carlos Democratic Front delegates tion," Salinas said. "I will gov­Salinas de Gortari was in­walked out just before Salinas ern for all Mexicans." augurated as president of was inaugurated, while mem­Lombardo was applaudedMexico today despite opposi­bers of the National Action when she said that the front's 
tion protests that his govern­Front held up signs saying candidate, Cuauhtemoc Car­ment is illegitimate and won't "Fraud." 
denas, had been cheated of vic­

make the economic and politi­In his inaugural address tory in the election by the cal reforms the people want. Salinas said he was taking governing Institutional power at a time of conflict and Revolutionary Party. 
"This is an ill-fated day, be­change and promised Salinas took power from cause the right of the people to "nationalist, democratic and President Miguel de la Madrid select their rulers is being vio­popular" reforms. at a special session of congresslated," said Marcela Lom­"I will be prudent in never bardo, who spoke to the risking the destiny of the See MEXICO, page 5 

Former SMC president dies 
By SANDY CERIMELE 
Entrance Examination Board. Senior Staff Reporter Before joining the College Board, he had served as assis­
Former president of Saint tant dean of freshmen at Yale Mary's College, John M. Dug­University. gan, died Wednesday at 3:38 Since his resignation in 1985 pm (CST) at Spormont-Vail from Saint Mary's, DugganRegional Medical Center in had spent a year on sabbatical Topeka, Kansas. Duggan suf­and since 1986 had served as fered from pancreatic cancer, president of the Independent which was discovered after ex­College Funds of America, the ploratory surgery on Nov. 21. nation's largest fundaising or­
He was appointed president ganization for higher educa­of Saint Mary's College in 1975 tion. He was appointed Presi­and resigned in 1985. Duggan John Duggan dent of Washburn University in served various administrative Topeka, Kansas, February of positions at Vassar College, in­Holy Cross and his doctoral this year and assumed the po­cluding vice president of stu­degree from Yale University. sition on July 1. dent affairs. He was also a pro­From 1957 to 1969, Duggan Dr. William Hickey, presi­
fessor of psychology at Vassar held the positions of vice pres­dent of Saint Mary's, remem­and Saint Mary's. Duggan ident, director of program de­bers Duggan as "a man of earned his bachelor of arts velopment and director of guid­degree from the College of the ance services for the College See DUGGAN, page 5 


Across the frozen tundra 
The Observer/Paul Compton Sophomore Wendy Burek· cautiously makes the trek from LaFortune Student Center to Sorin Hall in yesterday afternoon's bitter cold. 

Friday, December 2, 1988
e2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
A Committee on the Sesquicentennial of the University has been appointed by Notre Dame Provost Timothy O'Meara. He will chair the 17-member group planning the 1992 observance of the 150 years since the University's founding by a Holy Cross priest, Father Ed­ward Sorin. Executive chairperson of the committee is Sister John Miriam Jones, associate provost. Other mem­bers include faculty administrators and students. The ap­pointment of the Committee was a recommendation of the History of the University Committee, which at the direc­tion of the provost led some preliminary discussions of the Sesquicentennial. 
-The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is holding its weekly 
vigil today on the Dome steps at 12: 15 p.m. -The Observer 
Logan Center Council for the Retarded invites all those interested to their Christmas Semi-Formal Dance today from 7:30-10 p.m. Semi-formal attire is requested. Van pickups for St. Mary's will be at 6:45 and 7:25 at the Main Circle. Also, students are invited to join the group for a trip to the movies tomorrow from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Questions may be directed to Jim at 283-3795 or Karen at 283-4950. -The Observer 
Senior Christmas Formal couples, buses will be leaving the Main Circle today at 8:30p.m. to go to Union 
Station. -The Observer 
Christmas Around the World presents a night of 
fun at Theodore's. Free food, music, dancing and pictures 
with Santa from 9 p.m.-2 a.m. -The Observer 
Amnesty International urges all Hall Community Service commissioners to pick up Christmas cards to be signed at their hall masses. The cards will be distributed at the CSC on Saturday between 12 and 2 p.m. Amnesty members are asked to check that their hall commissioners are participating in the project. Any questions contact John at 283-1562. -The Observer 
A Mass for Peace in the Middle East will be held 
Saturday, Dec. 3 at 5 p.m. in Siegfried Hall. -The Observer 
WVFI's Issues '88 features Father "Monk" Malloy 
as the special guest this week at 12 noon on Sunday. -The Observer 
TheRiteofAcceptanceintotheOrderofCatechu~ens-­the first step in being received into the Church--will be celebrated by fifteen students who are preparing for bap­tism andOr full communion in the Catholic Church on Sun­day at the 12:15 p.m. Liturgy in Sacred.Heart Church. 
-The Observer 
Senior Class Mass is this Sunday at 4 p.m. in 
Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. The celebrant will be Father "Monk" Malloy. -The Observer 
Special musical solemn Vespers service for the second Sunday of Advent will take place at the Sacred Heart Church on Sunday at 7:15p.m. -The Observer 
The Last Mlsa en Espanol of the semester will take place on Dec. 11 at 11 a.m. in Farley Hall. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. 
Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 



Deaign Edilor . . . . . . Kathy Huston Deaign Auiltanto . . . . . .. Karen Newlove ....................................... Shannon Poley TJipeoellen... . ..... Molly Scwartz ...........................................Paul Jackson Newa Editor... .. ....... Michelle Dall COPJI Editor .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . Cindy Broderick Sports CoPJI Editor• ...... Steve Megargee ........................................ Sean Bratocao .......................................... Frank Pastor Viewpoint CopJI Editor .... Patrick Zande Etc. Editor ........................... John Blasi Etc. Deaigner............ .. ...... Tim Irvine Typilts...... . Val Poletto .............................................. Sue Barton ND Day Editor ............... Betsy Mennell SMC Day Editor . .. ....... Sarah Demet Photographer.... .. .. . .. Paul Compton Irish E:rtra Editora .............. Pete Gegen ......................................... Theresa Kelly 
ne 0M1nw (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday excqJt durina exam and vacation pcriock. ne OWerwr is published ~Y the studenu of the Univcnity of Notte Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. SubscnptJOIII may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per aemater) by wrilina ne Olllen•. P.O. Box Q, Notte Dame, Indiana 46'~· 
ne o.-nw il a member or ne .u.octaW rr-. All reproduction ripu are ri:ICI"Yed. 



Bush forced to go back on campaign promises 
Read my lips: George Bush will have to raise taxes and in doing so will break one of his most emphatic campaign promises. 
Poor George. A mere three weeks after he was elected President, he is being called upon to articulate clearly his strategy for grappling with the deficit. In the interim, the dollar con­tinues to fall in the currency market and the stock market continues to slump. 
Throughout the campaign, Bush spoke of a 
so-called "flexible freeze" approach to reduc­
ing the deficit. His proposed policy, however, 
has come under heavy fire in recent weeks from 
a wide range of critics. 
Bush's policy of "freezing" spending in all 
programs, evaluating them and then cutting 
spending in some of these areas is in theory a 
good idea, but in practice it is not feasible. 
The only way for Bush to keep his promise 
and to make his "flexible freeze" work is by 
requesting budget cuts too drastic to get 
through Congress. Bush will not be able to cut 
enough to effectively trim the deficit. He will 
have to increase revenue while making some 
cuts. Simply put, he will have to raise taxes. 
The American Agenda, a committee com­posed of several ex-government officials includ­
ing former presidents Ford and Carter, pre­
sented the Bush administration with a report 
on how to attack the deficit problem, among 
others. Among their many suggestions was a 
proposed increase in taxes. The committee con-
eluded that it was not possible for the deficit to 
be trimmed unless revenue was increased to 
some extent. 
Former presidents Ford and Carter are not 
alone. Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve, testified before the National 
Economic Council that the case for reducing 
the deficit is "compelling." But when asked 
about the feasibility of Bush's "no new taxes 
policy," Greenspan hedged. . 
The deficit should be reduced "dtspropor­
tionately, and preferably wholly, on the expend­
iture side," Greenspan said. This would seem to agree with the vice-president's "flexible freeze" proposal. But Greenspan added that "how it is done is less important than that it be done." A statement that could be translated to mean that taxes may have to be raised. 
The writing is on the wall: George Bush will have to raise taxes in order to tame the deficit. When he does, he will break his most emphatic campaign promise. In short, George Bush lied 

Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor 
~t 


II ~ v• .-n" 
to the American people, and they believed him. 
A possible tax raise was one of the central issues of the campaign. At the Republican con­vention, Bush stated in no uncertain terms that he would not raise taxes. "Read my lips: no new taxes," Bush proclaimed. 
Michael Dukakis, on the other hand, made one big mistake -he told the truth. Dukakis repeatedly said that he would not rule out a raise in taxes and that if he had to, it would only be as a last resort. Dukakis, a man with no Washington experience, had a far better con­cept of how things work in the Capital than his rival Vice President Bush. 
Although Dukakis seemed to have a better grasp of the deficit problem, Bush knew how to get the vote when it counted. His stratagy was simple --promise the American electorate everything they want to hear and then, once in office, break your campaign promises and blame it on Congress. 
George Bush will raise taxes; he will break his promise, but the American people will not learn the lesson --not to believe everything they are promised by a politican. Maybe next time we'll get it right. 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 
3300 L.W.W. (US 20) open 24 hours LOW daily. weekly, group & student rates available All moc:lem, clean unlta, FREE cable. phone and coffee 
(219) 234-4063 

~~----------~-------------------------, 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ :0 Call 239-6900 ~ 

Chtr~~tma1~ lPa~~ 
Friday Night December 2 9:00PM 
Great Music, Dancing, Food from around the world 
Come get your picture taken with Santa Claus! 
Co-sponsored with I.S.O., SUB and Multi-Cultural Organization. 


-----~------------~--------------------~----~----------------~---.----------~--------------------------~----------~-­
Friday, December 2, 1988 --------------------T.:..:h~e=--=O:.:bse==.:rv~e:..r-----------------------__..JPca::igr..;:e:....;;3 


~ 
The Observer I Paul Compton

An early Christmas 
Ansis Rozitis from L.S. Ayres presents representa­Brian Murray and Tom Zidar. Sorin Hall collected tives of Sorin Hall with a VCR as the prize for winning money from 226 percent of the dorm based on $1 the United Way Drive dorm competition. Pictured left per person and South Quad won the Penny Drive in to right are Rozitas, Brian O'Keefe, Gerard Fitzgerald, the dining halls. 
200 charged in mafia drug raid 
Associated Press Italy, arrests were made in "builds strong cases against 
Palermo, Bologna and top leaders" of organized 
WASHINGTON-U.S. and Florence. crime. Italian authorities announced Among the 75 people charged The FBI said it used court­today they have charged more in the United States and 133 in authorized wiretaps, physical than 200 people, including Italy were some of the "top surveillance and heroin and major figures in the Sicilian leaders" of organized crime, cocaine buys to develop Mafia, in a joint undercover op­FBI director William Sessions evidence leading to the arrests eration targeting international said. here and in Italy. cocaine and heroin drug­An FBI spokesman, William The Italian news agency AGI trafficking rings in both Carter, said that, by midday, said the two-year investigation countries. 52 people had been arrested in that led to the raids stemmed 
Arrests were being made in the United States and 22 in from the "Pizza Connection" Baltimore; Buffalo, N.Y.; Italy. international drug ring that Miami; Newark, N.J.: New Sessions said the arrests cul­sold $1.6 billion of heroin, York; Philadelphia; San Fran­minated a "long-term, under­mostly through pizzerias in the cisco, and Rockford, Ill. In cover operation" that he said United States. 
so you ate too much turkey over break.. . so you're still feeling mighty sick now... so what! serves you right! 
but hey, don't go to the infirmary 
a dose of NEW PINK FLOYD LIVE is all you need. remember, we've got the CURE down at 

and for those of you who didn't get enough turkey at home, good news; the dining hall has plenty left over and you'll be seeing it soon! 
ADWORKS 


Pakistan chooses first female prime minister 
Associated Press Pakistan;'' a close ally of the 
United States, presidential 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan-spokesman Marlin Fitzwater 
Benazir Bhutto became the said in Washington. 
first woman to lead a Moslem Zulfikar Ali Bhutto founded 
nation when the president the Pakistan People's Party. In 
chose her Thursday to be prime 1977, after a landslide victory 
minister, the post her father in the last previous free elec­
held when he was deposed and tion, Gen. Mohammed Zia ul­
hanged a decade ago. Haq ousted him in a coup. 
President Ghulam Ishaq Bhutto was convicted of com­
Khan said in a televised ad­plicity in a political murder 
dress that Bhutto had "the best conspiracy and hanged in 1979. 
qualities of leadership and Zia was killed in plane crash 
foresight as a statesman." Aug. 17 after the election date 
Thousands of supporters cel­had been set. 
ebrated in the streets of the na­An eight-party grouping 
tion's cities after the long­called the Islamic Democratic 
awaited announcement. They Alliance, which included Zia 
danced, beat drums and loyalists, won only 60 seats in 
chanted "Long live Benazir!" the election and Wednesday's 
Bhutto's party gained 12 assembly vote. 
more seats in the National As­Ishaq Khan, the 73-year-old 
sembly when it voted Wednes­Senate chairman who replaced 
day on candidates to fill 20 Zia as president, said Thursday 
seats reserved for women. he was convinced Bhutto could 
With those her populist command a majority in the Na­
Pakistan People's Party won in tional Assembly. 
the Nov. 16 election, it holds 105 
of the chamber's 237 seats, and He also declared the end of 
she is said to have enough sup­a state of emergency imposed 
port among minor parties and after Zia's death "so the new 
independents for a majority prime minister can take up her 
coalition. responsibility in an environ­
ment of complete democracy." 

President Reagan sent a let­The president said he had 
ter of congratulations express­received the resignations of the 
ing "his hope that the recently caretaker government effec­
conducted elections will usher tive Friday, when Bhutto, 35, 
in an era of democratic rule in was to take the oath of office. 

Bhutto fulfills dream 
AP Photo Pakistani Populist leader Benazir Bhutto was the first to sign the national parliamentary rolls Wednesday during the swearing-in ceremony of newly elected members. Ms. Bhutto's father Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was Pakistan's prime minister from 1973 until he was ousted in 1977. Story below. 


r----------------,
1 rnrnrnm®9~ CPO~~ 1
I I
BEST PIZZA IN TOWN. 
I I I I
I Special 1 Week Only I 
I Large Pizza 2 toppings only $8 
I 
I (with coupon) I No Free Delivery 
I 
I Dining Room, Carry Out and I I Delivery to a Limited Area ~ 
I Hot sandwiches: 
I 
Ham & Cheese, Roast Beef, Meatball,
I
1 Italian Sausage 1 
I I
November 30-December 6 
93
I ~;9~s~~y I L----------------~ 
~r~·~-~-ge-4---·----~~-------~-~-0-~-~-----------~-R-~:~~~~ 



s 
pract1c• • 
for the real world. 
Using an ffiM® Personal System/2®computer to help you succeed in college can also prepare you to succeed in a career. Because chances are, after you graduate., you'll be working on an ffiM computer. 
So the ffiM PS/2 is the perfect investment. It can help you organize your notes, write and revise papers, produce high-quality graphics, and more. And not only is it easy to learn and use, but ifeligible., you'II get up to 40°/o off. 
Get a head start by working now on the computer you'II probably be working on later. 
EPC is located at: Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25, Computing Center (219) 239-7477 
--..-­
-~-·-® 
IBM and Personal System/2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. 



Friday, December 2, 1988 
The Observer 
pageS 


AP Photo A somewhat tired Anna Morrison wipes honey from keep all the money that stuck to her. The money was her eye after being painted with the stuff and then going to be washed at a laundromat prior to being rolling in a $10,000 pile of money. Morrison got to counted. 

Duggan 
continued from page 1 
warmth and of sincerity, com­mitted to the people and the so­ciety around him. As a college president, he was nothing short of a visionary. He saw Saint Mary's College as a place of progress." 
According to the president, the programs that his adminis­tration initiated include the $25 million EXCEL fund raising campaign, the building of the school's newest facilities, and the establishment of the Center for Spirituality. 
"Jack Duggan's vision of the College, what indeed Saint Mary's has become, is his legacy to the insitution," Hickey said and extended the sympathies of the entire Saint Mary's community to the Dug­gan family. 
Duggan is survived by his 
PR 
wife and five sons. Services, still tentative, will include a fu­neral mass at Saint Teresa's Catholic Church in Trumbull, Connecticut and a burial ser­


,~O~B~LE~M~;. 
t ha-ve flights 
vice at Saint Michael's Ceme­
!....,..; St Ma~'s studenmin'& the'V 
tery in Stratford.
-dent and~ Chicago. ~ssu break, A Notre Da(Yu:e Airpor~:ute of C~tst::sto get from 
Help ftrewnt Blnh Defects
to catch at n)o'V e-ver'V . n should t e'V 
h want to e snortauo 
~ Support the 
bot d f tran " 1 t 
h at mo e o O'Hare. . \ Airpor
w B d to R.e"tona 
'st'~!~!:lc9.tQ~~
South en Michiana ., 
a) car {\ight from 
muter 
b) co~ d Limo c)tJntte 
N soLUl\O :\e_,\,.,..e 
-arkin'& charge . \\sand p t answer· \ tion,
Cit'V trafftc, to r an incorrec be a good so ud could tra-veling b-y c; "b" ma'V seem\to in South Ben a And wht e kind of de a'V worse -yet, ' 
b that an'V O'Hare· Or, we\\, \et s remem ~r. "{lights at d could mean· .. mtsstn.. S th Ben \ 
mea0 . o io ou . h mare· , Not oo 'V cance\\aUO \d be a otg t tu\atioOS· rta• . t sa'V it cou d "c " coogra de of uaospo h JUS were ' \' b\e mo od t e
\{-you aos most re ta west {are a 
. d umo the Hers the \o .ot for the is tJotteO'Hare, it a\so oture/ arri-va~ potu\ts io oo tion to ieot dep~r . \e. 'fhts res , 
most con-veo ND Matn CtrC£ h students d ots • the . . atioo 01 t e 
stu e d maxtmtz 
hass\es ao 
eo)o-vmeot. 

Consumer guide rates nursing homes in U.S. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The most recent surprise inspections of the nation's nursing homes showed that 43 percent failed to meet food sanitation stand­ards and nearly 30 percent didn't properly administer drugs or ensure good personal hygiene, the government re­ported Thursday. 
In a 75-volume guide for con­sumers, federal officials released grades for each of the 15,000 nursing homes on 32 of the approximately 500 stand­ards by which they are mea­sured at least once a year in on-site inspections. 
Overall, the failure rate exceeded 15 percent in 10 categories. But about 2,400 nur­sing homes received passing marks in all 32 categories. 
The massive report, a com­pilation of material previously available only on a piece-meal basis through state regulatory agencies, amounts to the first federally sanctioned catalog for people looking for a nursing home. 
"I think this is a landmark achievement, not because it is an end to itself but because it will help people pose thought­ful, further questions in seeking out a nursing home," said Dr. William Roper, head of the Health Care Financing 
Mexico 
continued from page 1 
after the opposition speeches. The opposition had threatened to disrupt the ceremony if that was not permitted. 
According to official figures Salinas won barely more than 50 percent of the presidential vote, while Cardenas won 31 percent and the conservative National Action Party can­didate, Manuel Clouthier, had 17 percent. 
"I want to be the voice of those who, believing in better times, were once again victims of contempt for their rights," said National Action delegate said Abel Vicencio Tovar. 
The people of Mexico voted 
"for another program radi-Administration that oversees Medicare and Medicaid. 
But neither the nursing-home industry nor its severest critics greeted the report with enthus­iasm. Elma Holder, director of the National Citizens' Coalition for Nursing Home Reform, said Roper "should be embar­rassed and ashamed to present these documents so proudly ... At best they provide a teaser to the consumers to try to ob­tain a copy of the full survey report of the facility." 
Dr. Paul Willging, executive vice president of the 9,000­memember American Health Care Association, the major nursing home trade group, called the report unreliable and said, "In fact, the guide could be harmful to consumers who use it as a shortcut to selecting a nursing home." 
Roper acknowledged it should not be viewed as a one­stop guide, and conceded that a major shortcoming was that the 32 performance indicators were listed only as having been "met" or "unmet," rather than showing the severity of fail­ures. 
For example, a nursing home that needed 30 nurses on staff to meet patient-nurse ratios and had only 26 would receive the same "unmet" citation as if it only had 10 nurses. 
cally different from the one ap­plied during the administration that is ending," said Lom­bardo, a delegate from Mexico City. 
Salinas is a disciple and ex­ponent of the free market, while leftist Cardenas called for a bigger government role in the economy and suspension of payments on the nation's debt. 
With Cabinet appointments announced Wednesday, Salinas served notice that he intends to push ahead with the economic policies he designed while ser­ving as his predecessor's budget director: encouraging competition and reducing state involvement in the economy in an effort to promote growth. 
I( Women's Care Center)
ll PREGNANCY HELP CEN1ER 
• 
FREE Pregnancy Tests 

• 
FREE Confidential, Individual & Couple Counseling 

• 
FREE Referral to Support Agencies 

• 
FREE Confidential Care 

• 
Medical Referral Service 

• 
Post Abortion Counseling 


1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
---~ 417 N. St. Louis Blvd.~:··:h '}7.1'.
';7. •... . '[24 HOUR HELPLINE I 
~ call for an appointment ~ '---___.:2::.:3:...:4.....:-0:..:3:..:6.;:.3---'
'
WE WELCOME VOLUNTEERS 
learn this lesson the hard way? If you need to get to O'Hare, 

G~tWt'LL 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. 

CIUIIESE-IIIEIICAIIIESTAUUIIT Call674-6993 for schedule and reservations. 
AulllentiCi'........., 11811Uftn a Hu-Culllnel
Or call your travel agent. 

Lunches starting aL ____ $3.45 Dinners startinq at______ $4.95 
BedaaraDI open 7 days Mon.·Thuta. 11:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sut.11:30 am to 11 pmWe'll Get You There SUD. &Holidays 11:30 am to 10 pm 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that 



United Limo 

130 Dixie Hwy.• Roacalcmcl (-..xt to Banclall'a ban) 272-7376 
you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 

~------------------------~----~-----------------------·---­
Friday, December 2, 1988 

Blocking release of documents is a 'duty' 

AP Photo Indiana House party leaders Michael Phillips (left), they were sworn in as co-Speakers of the House at 0-Boonville, and Paul Mannweiler, R-Jndpls., ac­the Statehouse Wednesday. knowledge applause and hold the gavel together after 

Stereo speakers 
Bush will 'move first' on budget 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President­elect George Bush told the new Democratic leader of the Sen­ate Thursday that he will take the lead in proposing ways to pare the huge federal budget deficit. 
Faced with calls from Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell and other top Democrats to make the first move on deficit reduction, Bush said, "That is exactly what I intend to do" once he becomes president. 
"I am confident that we can work together," Bush said as he and Mitchell faced reporters on the White House driveway after breakfast together, the latest in a series of culinary goodwill gestures toward con­gressional leaders. 
"I'm not naive about it, nor is he, and there will be different approaches on some of these major problems facing this country," said the vice presi­dent. He said he will take the lead on the deficit "and then there will be, I'm sure, active discussion ... negotiation with whomever he designates to try to solve these problems." 
Bush also said he won't be rushed into making Cabinet ap­pointments despite persistent news media speculation that may be troubling to prospects such as John Tower, the former said. "This is something that from the very beginning we knew we would have to do·." 
He denied that the move was an attempt to sabotage North's trial and said, "The law must take its course." 
Asked whether he still believed, as he stated earlier this year, that North and former national security ad­viser John Poindexter will ul­timately be found innocent, the President said, "At this stage, I don't think I should comment on guilt or innocence or anyth­ing of this kind." 
When asked whether this meant he would not grant par­dons for North and Poindexter, he replied, "From the very beginning, I said that to con­sider a pardon would leave them under a shadow of guilt for the rest of their lives. I think we have to let the judicial process proceed." 
Last June 27, Reagan responded to a question on the subject by saying, "I believe in the innocence of the two men and I would like to see that es­tablished once and for all." 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Reagan said Thursday he is against a pardon for former aide Oliver North, but "duty re­quires" his administration to block release of secret docu­ments that may be needed for North's trial on Iran-Contra charges. 
Reagan commented in response to reporters' ques­tions after his spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said dis­closure of documents sought by North's lawyers for use in his defense would reveal "state secrets of the highest order." 
"We have indicated there are categories of information in­cluded in these documents which cannot be declassified at any point," Fitzwater told reporters. 
Reagan, questioned at the beginning of a meeting on trade issues in the Oval Office, said, "The things we are blocking are the things that duty re­quires we block." 
"These are things that are national security secrets," he 
whether to give the Pentagon post to Tower, a former Senate Armed Services Committee 
~{ora{ J{ousechairman now a paid consul­tant to several major defense contractors, Bush said, "Any 

& yifts, Inc. 
time there seems to be stories that may be hurtful to some­body, it concerns me, no matter who it is. Senator Tower's a 
20% off~ses andCorsages
friend of mine but he knows that the process takes a while 
for Senior Cliri.stmas ![anna[
to go forward." 
Casli andCarry On[y '1Jec. 2nd and 3rd 
272-6363 409 '1Ji~e Way 9\&rtli 
Texas senator keeping a long vigil for the Pentagon opening. 
"We're trying to be prudent and do the proper work re­quired to back up appointments at all levels," Bush said. 
Asked about reports of inter­nal strife within his camp over 


at 
ROADCASf NEWS 
It's the story of their lives.



J.C. PenneyUniversity Park Mall 


Tonight at the SN ITE 7: 15, 9:00 
:'. :: 
Friday, December 2, 1988 

The Observer page 7 
African-American lecture held at ND 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Staff Reporter 
In a lecture titled "The Sig­nificance of the Study of African American History," history professor Joseph Lewis urged black students not to for­get their responsibilities to their fellow blacks as they be­come educated. 
He cited the tendency of some black professionals to desert their roots which in turn, said Lewis, leads to their "de­Africanization . . . and loss of blackness." 
"Contribute to the communi­ty," Lewis told the students in the large, all-black audience, in order to bring "meaningful­ness" to their lives. He told them that it is "ultra­necessary" to share their tal-

Soviet reforms win majority approval 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-President Mikhail Gorbachev won nearly unani­mous approval Thursday of a more dynamic political struc­ture from a parliament that voted its traditionally docile form out of existence. 
In a speech to the 1,500­member Supreme Soviet, Gor­bachev also accepted blame for the lack of explanations that led to a remarkable public debate over the reform he con­siders crucial to his restructur­ing effort. 
Despite criticism from some of the 15 Soviet republics that ents, and he warned them not to be "selfish and self­centered." 
Lewis, who is a professor of history and dean of the Univer­sity College at Central State University in Wilberforce, Ohio, also spoke extensively of Dr. Cardigy Woodson. Wood­son is the author of "The Mis­education of the Negro," the second black man to ever earn a Ph.D. from Harvard Univer­sity, and the "father of black history," according to Lewis. 
Lewis quoted Woodson as having "three fundamental reasons" for studying black history. "First and foremost," said Lewis, "he (Woodson) felt it was 'important for black people to know who they are and where they've been."' 


the reforms make Moscow too powerful, only five deputies voted against it. Still, the nega­tive votes were a rarity in the parliament that for years has unanimously approved Krem­lin directives. The first "no" votes came just more than a month ago. 
Gorbachev told deputies that except for an emergency, "this line-up of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet is having its final ses­sion." 
Elections will be held March 26 for a new 2,250-member Congress of People's Deputies that will choose from among its members a smaller, more ac­
'•: ,' ·•l 
.. " . ·. 
tive Supreme Soviet. 
"We are creating a new, very authoritative representative body of power that will reflect all national, territorial and so­cial interests of society," Gor­bachev said. 
The reform also creates a strong presidency in place of the largely ceremonial post Gorbachev assumed Oct. 1. 
Earlier in the week, he said that without the political reform, "The drive for perestroika inevitably will begin to skid." 
He said in a speech Thursday concluding an extraordinary 
. ' ' . 
. . . . . 

three-day session on his proposals to restructure the government that the revised constitution was temporary, and further changes would respond to demands for ex­panded power for republic and local governments. 
But he emphasized the rest of his reforms will be consid­ered by the new lawmakers. 
Gorbachev also told the deputies that a storm of contro­versy over the reform package­-including 250,000 letters to the 
Kremlin--could  have  been  
reduced,  and  he  took the  
blame.  

Griffin 
continued from page 12 
Dame's reputation of in­
nocence means that the men­
tion of Rockne's school is like 
a breath of fresh air for sub­
way alumni living in cities 
where--if they believe the eve­
ning news--the cops are cor­
rupt, the smog they breathe 
is carcinogenic, and the 
teenagers are selling them­
selves to pay for drugs. 
If it leaves you unhappy to 
know that Notre Dame is fa­
mous for its ambiance of rel­
ative innocence, then you 
have a problem. You should 
have gone to college in Hell's 
Kitchen, where cops and 
muggers play a deadly game 
that has none of the in­
nocence of football, and if 
you're not a winner, you're 
probably dead. 
Every spring and fall, old 
grads come back to dorm­
crawling, and they tell you 
they're looking for initials 
that were carved on a door. 
Faded gentlemen who were 
once hell-raisers show up as 
though they were keeping a 
date with some ghost from 
the past. I suspect that what 
they'd like to find again is 
their lost innocence, perhaps 
because they want to mock 
themselves for being slow to 
catch on. Don't knock in­
nocence, whether you've kept 
it or lost it, until you've been 
around the block a few times. 
Once you notice it's gone, you 
may never respect yourself 
as much again. 
lo~-I 
··.·.··.· . 



It took Galileo 16 years to master the universe. You have one night. 
It seems unfair. The genius had all that time. \Vhile you have a few short hours to learn your sun spots from your satellites before the dreaded astronomy exam. 
On the other hand, Vivarin gives you the definite advantage. It helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. Safely and conveniently. So even when the subject matter's dull, your mind will stay razor sharp. 
If Galileo had used Vivarin, maybe he could have mastered the solar system faster, too. 

Revive with VIVARIN: 
Use as direded Coma1ns catremr eqwvaJen1 of rwo cups of coffee ct> flee(ham lnc. 1988 



pageS The Observer Friday, December 2, 1988 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
Introducing the new B. M. 0.C.-the big­gest Macintosh on campus: 
The Macintosh· II computer. It's the per­fect roommate for power hungry students who do high speed computing, video pro­cessing, engineering or graphic design. 
Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II is the fastest, best performing Macintosh 

ever built. Yet with all its sophistication', it still has the same point-and-click simplicity that Macintosh has become famous for. 
Which means, ofcourse, the Macintosh II and you will be the perfect roommates: 
It cooks. And you up. 
The power 
to be ® your besf 

--------.----~-------------------------­

~---------------­
--l 
1 
1 
1 
l
Viewpoint 1 
Friday, December 2, 1988 page 9 
New housing policy differs little from old 
Recently there has been a great deal spoken and written about "the new housing policy." After reading a ple­thora of articles and letters bashing the administration and talking with our fel­low students and student government officials, we came to the conclusion that no one, including us, knew what was going on. 
Kathryn English Michael Gaffney 
guest column 
We decided that it would be appro­priate to talk to the administration. Mrs. Evelyn Reine bold, Director of Stu­dent Residences, was more than happy to speak with us. Her explanations of the University's reasons for the policy and its plans for implementing it were quite interesting in the wake of the recent controversy. What surprised us most was the fact that the "new" policy is, in every way, simply a reaffirmation of current University policy. 
The primary reason for the policy is the desire to have all freshmen as­signed to permanent housing when they arrive at the beginning of the year. This is not a new idea. University policy has been to give freshmen rooms first, as they are required to live on-campus. 
The other reason for the policy is to work toward parity among the classes in the dorms. While it has been sugges­ted that the situation needs no improve­ment, if you live in Carroll Hall, where there are only sixteen members of the sophomore class, you can see the trou­ble it can cause. The main problem will be picking RAs from the ten or so people who will stay through their senior year. While RAs can come from any dorm, it is preferable to have people who know each other and the hall's rector in those positions. Additional problems could result from the lack of leadership in the dorm the next two years and the trouble that the Vermin will experience in in­terhall athletics. The policy is intended to prevent this from happening in the future. 
There are three parts to the policy. 
First, students not returning their ad­vance enrollment fee or housing con­tracts on time will not participate in room picks and will be assigned rooms only after freshmen have been placed and only if there is enough room. This policy was plainly stated on our ad­vanced enrollment and housing con­tract instructions last year. 
Second, (and this is where most of the confusion has occurred), residence halls will set aside twenty-five percent of its total population for incoming freshmen. If the number of upperclas­smen who are eligible for roompicks (i.e., sent their advanced enrollment and room contracts in on time) and who decide to stay in the dorm is greater than seventy-five percent of the total population of the dorm, then every ef­fort will be made to relocate the excess freshmen to dorms with room. The policy is very flexible; it is not a quota. The University does not want to dis­place anyone against his or her will and will do everything reasonable to avoid 
doing  so.  However, they also do not  
want  another  situation  like  Carroll  
Hall.  

The third aspect of the policy involves the lottery. A lottery would be used in one of two situations. 
First, if there is no room on-campus for everyone who wants to live on­campus, some juniors (seniors to be) 

Doonesbury 
I SAW H8R., J. J. 5Ht'S BEAUTIFUL-, 
ABSOWTUY 
BEAUTIFUL. 
I'M 
GLAD YOU IAI&R& I NATO/lNG, MIK£3 ... 
\ 

will not be able to stay. In the words of du Lac, "Freshmen and sophomores renewing their contracts within the same hall will receive consideration in the following year's room assignment according to the procedure of that par­ticular hall. Juniors will receive the same consideration as freshmen and sophomores if sufficient spaces on­campus are available." In other words, we are guaranteed on-campus, stay­dorm housing through our junior year. We have never been guaranteed anyth­ing more. 
Second, if the freshman class in a given dorm would be "significantly lower than" twenty-five percent, then some juniors would have to change dorms. While the meaning of "sig­nificantly lower than" is debateable and has not been determined, some parity (though not total) must be main­tained to avoid another Carroll Hall sit­uation. 
It is important to note that, from the numbers shown to us, both options look virtually impossible and are regarded as such by the Office of Student Residences. 
One final question that we had (and you may also have) is: "What if there are more freshmen than anticipated?'' The Office of Admissions is very confi­dent of its numbers and has been very accurate in the past few years, as was noted in the letter to the editor from that office. But if something does go seriously wrong, Mrs. Reinebold as­sured us that emergency measures (such as a return to the use of study lounges) would be implemented to protect the upperclassmen. 
On the down side, this applies only to this year. Perhaps there will be prob­lems next year--Student Residences is unwilling to speculate that far ahead. But, for you juniors out there who are on time with your advanced enrollment and housing contracts, the word from the top is, "Don't worry." The danger to most of you is, at worst, incredibly small. 
Kathryn English is a sophomore philos­ophy major, and Michael Gaffney is a sophomore government major. 
P.O. Box Q 
This is only the beginning. With this information, and the cooperation of Stu­dent Affairs, it is the goal of the Judicial Council to institute a precise and con­crete definition of the Judicial Board, its responsibilities, and its functions. The council envisions an educational program for rectors and Judicial Board chairmen as a means of assuring that this definition is upheld. 
These actions, in and of themselves, will not ensure the effective use of Judi­cial Boards; this working definition cannot overcome student apathy. We students need to be aware of our rights with regard to Judicial Board. Further­more, we need to take an active role in the board's proceedings. 
The ideal dorm Judicial Board will be realized only through a process of give and take. Student Affairs and hall rec­tors must provide students with the tools to build a true disciplinary body. Then we must use these tools and the responsibility that accompanies them for the benefit of our individual dorms and the Notre Dame community as a whole. Kari Swindell 
John Wolfram Judical Council Members Nov. 29, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"Don't ever give up on your dreams ... and never leave them behind. Find them; make them yours; And all through your life, cherish them and never let them go." 

J-Board duties probed by Council 
Dear Editor: 

One of the basic tenets of our Amer­ican judiciary is that of a fair trial by a jury of one's peers. At Notre Dame, this is realized through the dorm Judi­cial Board, or is it? 
Judicial Board is a name attached to an ethereal concept of student respon­sibility and self-government. It has a name, it has members, but in very few qorms is it utilized for the purpose that it is intended. 
The Notre Dame Judicial Council is working in conjunction with Student Af­fairs and hall rectors to make Judicial Boards the viable disciplinary bodies that they should be. The first step in this process is attaining consistency among dorm Judicial Boards in the types of cases they handle; a consis­tency that often is impeded by an ever­fluctuating definition of "pastoral con­cerns." A current survey distributed to all rectors will uncover their different visions of the Judicial Board and their varying ideas of cases falling into the category of "pastoral care." 
Garry Trudeau 
50HOIAJ'O YOU [)()IN 

THERATIN65~ 
I 
E. Castanea 

-~e-Obse.--~~--Editorial Board Operations Board
--=-.l~ll ---. A.~Y=-...&---­

Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor .............................. .......... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bemadene Shi~s 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor ................................. Man Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark RidgewayNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman the administration of either institution. The n-s is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on cempus, through leners, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

-------------------~----· 
-----------------------~--------------------­

Christmas specials 
~~~~~ 
"'() IV {( JOE BUCOLO ~ l) accent writer 
It's that time of the year again: the time when we all become children at heart. Christmas just wouldn't be Christmas without the television classics that have entertained us for as long as we can remember. This year the networks have planned to show some of the classics along with some new Christmas specials which may be classics one day. Here's what you'll see: 
Dec. 2, 8 p.m. Ch. 28 "Muppet Family Christmas" 
Dec. 11, 9 p.m. Ch. 28 "Roots: The Gift" 
Dec. 14, 8 p.m. Ch. 22 "Charlie Brown Christmas" 8 p.m. Ch. 28 "Free To Be ... A Family" 
Dec. 15, 7:30p.m. Ch. 22 "'Tis the Season" 
Dec. 17, 8 p.m. Ch. 16 "Bob Hope's Jolly Christmas Special" 9 p.m. Ch. 28 "The Toy" 
Dec. 18, 9 p.m. Ch. 22 "A Very Brady Christmas" 9 p.m. Ch. 28 "Dolly Parton's Smokey Mountain Christmas" 
Dec. 19, 9 p.m. Ch. 28 "Canvas of Ice," Starring Brian Boitano 10 p.m. Ch. 22 "John Denver's Christmas" 
Dec. 20, 9 p.m. Ch. 22 "A Hobo's Christmas" 
Dec. 21, 8 p.m. Ch. 22 "Pee Wee's Playhouse Christmas Special" 
Dec. 22, 8 p.m. Ch. 22 "Candid Camera Christmas" 8 p.m. Ch. 28 "Special Olympics Christmas Party" 9 p.m. Ch. 22 "A Christmas Carol" 
Dec. 23, 7 p.m. Ch. 22 "Christmas Every Day" 7 p.m. Ch. 22 "Yes, Virginia, There is a Santa 
Claus" 8 p.m. Ch. 22 "Garfield's Christmas Special" 8 p.m. Ch. 22 "Claymation Christmas Carol" 9 p.m. Ch. 22 "Christmas Comes to Willow 
Creek" Dec. 24, 8 p.m. Ch. 22 "Bugs Bunny Looney Christmas Tales" 
8:30p.m. Ch. 22 "'Twas the Night Before Christmas" 9 p.m. Ch. 28 "Santa Claus: The Movie" Dec. 25, 8 p.m. Ch. 16 "The Sound of Music" 9 p.m. Ch. 22 "A Gift of Love" 
Dec. 29, 8 p.m. Ch. 28 "Ice Capades With Kirk Cameron" 
Dec. 31, Ch. 28 "Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve" 

DOMER'S 
Back alley pubs of London 
ALISON COCKS accent writer 
he best way to 
T 
find places to go for an interest­
ing night out in 
London is to 
wander. It is easy to fall into the trap of making the obligatory round of visits to the must-see places recommended by well­meaning friends from their whirlwind tour two summers ago, and never venture out on one's own to make fresh dis­coveries. The Hard Rock Cafes and Joe Aliens, favorably reviewed in every American Express guide, are entertaining, with excellent food and drinks. They're also a great place to meet other American tourists, as native Englishmen avoid them like the plague. 
To find good food and good fun, and experience the na­tives to boot, the most effec­tive method is to try the un­familiar. Residential areas and back streets of London yield a variety of places that guidebooks might deem un­worthy of mention, and as such have particular value as a part of the "International Experience." Two results of such expeditions are The Ac­tor's Retreat and Henry's. 
Located down a wrought iron staircase on the lower ground floor of a London townhouse, and around the 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 
corner from the Sadler's 
Wells Theatre, The Actor's Retreat, was the result of one such expedition. Like many others of its kind, this wine bar and restaurant is family owned and run, in this case by an exceedingly friendly Sicilian family. The father and son attend to the man­agement of the place, while 'Mama' reigns supreme in the kitchens. Much of the clien­tele are regular visitors, but they are always willing to welcome new additions to their 'family.' Americans are of particular interest, as they are few and far between, and are able to answer a plethora of questions about life on the other side of the Atlantic. 
Customers can eat and drink at the bar, or may choose the more formal atmo­sphere of the dining area at the back. The menu consists of a selection of Sicilian dishes, as well as many tradi­tional English offerings. The smoked Scotch salmon is par­ticularly good, and comes with a generous selection of potatoes and vegetables. In addition to disregarding a popular trend in British eateries by providing plentiful helpings, the Actor's Retreat breaks another trend with its employees, who are the antit­hesis of the stereotypical reserved Englishmen. 
To catch a glimpse of the only woman in London in a green tutu, go several blocks from the Kensington High Street tube stop, down Young Street to Henry's. The entire place is approximately half 

the size of the Commons in South Bend, but if one can tolerate a cramped, smoke­filled atmosphere, this bar is a well worth a visit for its drinks and its people. The two for one happy hour starts at 
5:30 every night, and con­tinues until closing on weeknights and until 6: 30 on weekends. 

It is the people, however, that make a visit to Henry's worthwhile. During happy hour in particular, Henry's draws a large, diverse crowd, ranging from groups of Ras­taferians to working husbands stopping in for a quick drink on their way home to 'the wife' to the handful of punks still existing in London to groups of school-leavers ready to point out the charac­ter flaws of Ronald Reagan to any American within earshot. Singing and public displays of drink-throwing, taboos in any other pub in Britain, are com­monplace here, which all make for an eventful evening. 
To avoid the typical tourist traps, and catch the natives in their natural setting, places such as the Actor's Retreat and Henry's are good places to start. A word to the wise: pub time in London is at midnight and backstreet pubs tend to be crowded, thus your first trip to the bar may be your last. 
Peking 
ELIZABETH EHRE1 accent writer 
T 
ry to imagine bc costumes, stark make-up, har­monious voices, daring acrobatic and lively music all occurr at our very own Washingto Hall. What do these image conjure up for you? For W Wang, a third year doctor student in physics, this co stitutes a dream. Mr. Wan desire to enrich this com nity with the tradition of Chinese opera has succeed in bringing the foremost Chinese opera troupe toN Dame. 
The traditional Qi-Shu­Fang's Peking Opera Trou has been recognized in rna countries including West G many, Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the 

------------~----·· 
Friday, December 2, 1988 



~ 
.. 


Haute cuisine awaits the London traveler 
TIM O'KEEFE 
accent writer
Thedining hall
has never looked so good as it does from here in London, where sheltered 
ND undergraduates have been forced to forage for nutrients in the concrete jungle. After finding out the hard way that you have to punch holes in a potato before microwaving it so that it doesn't explode, even Hun­garian noodle bake begins to sound appetizing .. 
For the sake of future generations of-Domers in London, I have been asked to explain the perils and in­tricacies of cooking here, so that they may somehow avoid the culinery disasters that have befallen us. 
The main concern of Lon­don Domers is MONEY. Use your money wisely, because it buys about half as much over here as it would in the States. Many students here become near-vegetarians, not because they care about the slaughter of innocent animals, but be­cause meat is too expensive. Mince (hamburger) and chicken are relatively cheap and versatile, and I per­sonally like sausage, at $2 a pound--"contains at least 50% meat." 

Carbo-loading is a must. You would think that we're all about to run a marathon, with all of the bread, rice and 
potatoes we eat. Learn to love all of these, because they're all great extenders. Three ounces of ground meat is paltry and pathetic by itself, but put it over rice with curry sauce, and instantly it be­comes a hearty, satisfying meal. Spaghetti with tomato sauce is even cheaper--I know some guys who have it five nights a week. 
Unless you have a burning desire to cook for yourself every night, consider getting together a cooking group so that you can rotate this chore. Besides the added con­venience, you'll probably also eat beter. If I had to cook every night, I'd probably have Spaghettios, Dinty Moore Beef Stew, or Yum-Yum Frozen Pizza most nights. As it is, for my one night a week I'm willing to put in the time to surprise my group with such tasty treats as beer balls and guiness stew. 
Enlist your family to help out. Get your mom to give you some simple recipes--she would be delighted to see how domestic you're getting. 
Also, try to cook a little at home before you go --that way you'll make your stupid beginner mistakes where thay won't hurt you as much. If you try to deep-fry spaghetti at home, your parents will laugh and take you out for Chinese food. Do that in Lon­don, and you'll be eating peanut butter and jelly sand­wiches for dinner--which you don't want to do, because you'll be eating P.B.J. every day for lunch anyway. 

Remember that stores in London have temperatures marked in Celsius, not Faren­heit. I know somebody who tried to bake some cookies at -­300 degrees Celcius--which is about 570 degrees Farenheit. The smoke alarm went off three times, and the cookies were more suitable for bludgeoning old ladies on the tube than for eating. 
Finally, don't panic. The worst that can happen is that you return to the U.S. a ghost-like wraith after a se­mester of subsiding on potato soup every night (it's actually been done). Besides, when you get back, you'll have a fresh appreciation of the dining hall, an unlimited amounts of Lucky Charms and Beef Stir fry. 

·-~ 
Opera offers swords, song, and dance 


United Kingdom and now the United States. Chinese opera is very different from West­ern opera. The stage has rela­tively few props while the elaborate costumes focus attention on the characters. The orchestra is on stage in­stead of the orchestra pit. The multi-talented artist must be actor, singer, and acrobat to participate in these splen­did performances. 

l-The troupe, including ND student, Wei Wang, will per­form three short operas each night lasting approximately two hours. These operas con­sist of real life and fantasy events in Chinese history. There will be a majestic sword fight, an exorcising of an evil spirit, and friendship, loyalty, and love will be chal­langed by the powers that be. The troupe has been brought to Notre Dame by the 
Office of the Provost in con­juction with the Tung Ching Chinese Center for the Arts for Notre Dame's Year of Cultural Diversity. The talent of the famous Qi-Shu-Fang and Ding Mei-Kui has won them many distinctions as ex­ceptional performers. Wei Wang's realization of his long awaited dream will add some­thing uniquely Notre Dame to this extravaganza. Here is an exceptional opportunity to ex­plore another culture's strong operatic tradition. 
Performances will be on Sunday, Dec. 4, at 3:30P.M. and Monday, Dec. 5, at 8:00 
P.M. Tickets will be available at the door or at the LaFor­tune Student Center Box Of­fice, weekdays 12:15-6 P.M. Students, $4. General admis­sion, $8. MasterCard and Visa orders call 239-5957. 

.. ~­
--
-
,-----­
-
etc. 
page 12 Friday, December 2, 1988 
Growing up innocent at Notre Dame 
What Notre Dame's critics dislike most and what many Domers are acutely embarrassed by, is this school's hold on in­nocence. Maybe you prefer to call it a holier-than-thou atti­tude. But in my book, the word "innocence" is appro­priately descriptive, and not simply because the statue of God's mother is on the Dome.  make his exit showing us his scars, if he had any. Maybe they were healed super­naturally, because of his love for Our Lady. His final show of innocence was in this: he reserved the right to cancel his contract with Akron, if Notre Dame asked him back as coach. Does any of this sound un­fair? I never knew Gerry  have shot himself in the foot be being so hard-nosed in building character. How proud we should be of the way in which he let the sports world know Notre Dame isn't run as a football factory. Even in a year when we haven't lost a game, at Notre Dame the tail doesn't wag the dog. In this survey of innocence, we shouldn't forget the Holy  can see the mail now: "Lying bastard! Why don't you admit the hypocracy, personal and institutional, that underlies the repression, the worship of money, and the rowdyism that goes on at you rich kids' Disneyland?" You know the rhetoric of attack as well as I do, and you know the things that make everyone unhappy. You know the good things about Notre Dame, the bad  didn't come to Notre Dame to get a character reference in innocence, since you're living on the outer fringes of the state of grace. You hate the weekends when your grandparents come, walking around the quads in ecstacy, telling you how peaceful they feel, as though they were spending the day in a convent or monastery. You can hardly wait for them to leave so that  
-­ Father Robert Griffin Letters to a Lonely God The way we glamorize foot­well. I like him too much to ball has an innocence to it. want to treat him unfairly Gerry Faust as coach was an and I wouldn't want to be un­all-American innocent who fair to Lou Holtz, whom I've thought that Our Lady only spoken to three times, in wouldn't let him or the team circumstances he wouldn't down. His losing streak could remember. He too is an inno­have broken his heart, if his cent; you can tell by the way faith hadn't protected him. he looks, but the things he We broke our hearts watching says, and by the manner in him: a good man, inwardly a which he says them. To bundle of nerves, wearing ascribe innocence to Holtz Calvary on his face when we isn't a euphemistic way of didn't win the game. saying he is naive or dumb He depended on prayer and because he's a very shrewd luck, recruitment, and his gentlemen. own expenditure of energy to His kind of innocence pays bring him a national champi­dividends, probably bacuse onship. When these didn't he's a genius with quiet coalesce into a number one ways that make him rnspira­rating, he worked and prayed tional. Imagine sending home harder. Finally he left us, two valuable players on the without a whimper or com­morning of the big game last plaint, as a study in grace Saturday! How could you not under pressure, and only his respect a coach so prin­innocence kept him from cipled? He drove home a les­ Cross priests and brothers who make the Catholic char­acter of the place visible and we shouldn't forget the stu­dents who practice their faith publically, at Mass, in the Grotto, or in community­related projects. They give the impression that at Notre Dame, grace is everywhere, making varsity Catholics of us all. Redemptions, of course, are available here as needed; however, it is possible that redemptions are scarce be­cause, except for a black sheep or two, most of us have been confirmed in our redemption. As sinners saved by grace, we can be just as shabby as the rest of mankind. If so, we must be closet sinners, almost. Nobody is notorious for his or her decadence and flaming lifestyle. But I'm only a priest who dabbles in myth­making, so how should I know what's going on? All this smug talk could get me in trouble if you don't  things and the things that cry out to heaven for vengeance, or so it seems when you're young. Why am I trying to tag you or us, or them, with this label of innocence that makes you uncomfortable, as though you had a millstone hanging around your neck? Of all the crosses that are laid on your back by the image makers, the cross that marks you as an innocent, whom the golden lads and girls on the Letterman show would laugh at for being dull, is the heaviest. You consider yourself one of the extraordinarly-average guys or dolls (though you'll admit that you're better looking or smarter than most of your peers), paying ten thousand dollars a year for an educa­tion, so you can get the hell out of here, find a job, and become a competitive runner in the daily rat race on this planet. Hey, pal, I hear what you're saying. The old Alma Mater isn't as perfect as the  you can drink a little beer, talk dirty and take the pic­ture of your playmate of the month out of the trunk, where you hide it from the old folks. Notre Dame's alleged in­nocence in only comparative. Innocence may not be any Domer's long suit, but the memory of innocence is prob­ably fresh. Redemptions may be as common as sin. A redemption could happen on a walk home from the bars when a lush decides to go on the wagon, in a decision that reminds you of a leopard deciding to change its spots. _Miracles can happen at Notre Dame. They happen every day and nobody notices, but if they're noticed, nobody treats them as an intrusion on his or her personal life which should be avoided like the garbage. "Innocent" is not a degrad­ing word, especially when it's used to describe the coaches, the football mystique, or the decency of kids who grew up in Catholic homes. Notre  
seeming tragic. He didn't  son in discipline, but he could  take it with a grain of salt. I  press makes it sound. You  See GRIFFIN, page 7  


SAY MERRY CHRISTMAS 
With a Lasting Gift We have a book for everyone on your list! 

4 NEW NOTRE DAME TITLES FOR THE COLLECTOR IN YOUR FAMILY! 
Wake Up the Echoes -Revised Ed. 
' . Notre Dame: A Sense of Place Many Autumns Ago Knute Rockne His Life and Legend 

-20o/o Discount on all ·· FREE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE hardbound trade books .. GIFT WRAPPING 2nd Floor (except Notre Dame Titles)"" · 
"'­

Friday, December 2, 1988 The Observer 
page 13 

Hlasek stuns Lendl in Masters tourney 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Unheralded Jakob Hlasek of Switzerland upset five-time champion Ivan Lendl4-6, 6-3,7-5 at the Masters tennis tournament Thursday night. 
Hlasek, the No. 6 seed, was making his first Masters ap­pearance. Lendl, who is seeded second, has won the tourna­ment three straight times and reached the final eight times in a row. 
"I didn't expect to be here, so I could play loose and enjoy myself," said Hlasek, who was sidelined for four months after breaking his right wrist in a January car accident. 
Lendl, who was 5-0 against Hlasek, had shoulder surgery following the U.S. open but said he felt fine entering the Masters. 
Earlier, fifth-seeded Stefan Edberg kept alive his title hopes with a 7-6 (7-5), 3-6, 6-4 victory over No. 4 Boris Becker in a repeat of their Wimbledon final. 
A loss would have virtually 
eliminated  Edberg  from  the  
round-robin  tournament  at  
Madison Square Garden.  

"At least now I feel I have a chance," he said. "But I'm playing Mats (Wilander) next and that's tough." 
Edberg, the No. 5 seed, played much better than he did in his opening loss to Henri Leconte Wednesday night. 
"I didn't play very well against Henri," he said, "but I knew I would do better tonight." 
Becker, seeded fourth, is still in the running for the Masters title because he beat Wilander in his first match. 


upset by Switzerland's Jakob Hlasek In a Thursday night match. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 
272~27 

THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPED OVER THE 
LAZY DOG. THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMP THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPED OVER THE 
ACADEMICSUSINESS TYPING 237-1949 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
QUALEX INC. THE LEADER IN THE PHOTO INDUSTRY, NEEDS ONE DE· PENDABLE. RESPONSIBLE INDIVID· UAL TO WORK WED NESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY EVENINGS, FROM 7-9 PM. TO DRIVE TO AND FROM MICHIANA REGIONAL AIR­PORT TO LOAD AND UNLOAD FILM. MUST HAVE VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE, WITH GOOD DRIVING RECORD. AND BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OLD. APPLY AT 921 LOUISE STREET. SOUTH BEND. WEEKDAYS BETWEEN 8 AM AND 4 PM. E.O.E. 
STUDENTS-WE HAVE LOWERED OUR PRICES! You aald they were too high-we heard youI Give ua s try lor your typing or wordprocesslng. Put your resume on our national on-line resume registry. TYPING SERVICES UNLIMITED (1 mi. north of Notre Dame In Roseland). 271­8116. Hours: 9 am to 3 pm, Monday­Friday. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST lost LOST Blue BASF Macintosh Disk Initialized: Christopher Wa~er I HAVE A MAJOR PAPER DUE AND IT IS ON THAT DISK. The disk has Management Disk on the label. Call x20 17 if you lind ~­
FOUND Womens blue coat found at United terminal at LAX. Left after 4:00pm flight Call Greg, 259·8337 
FOUND: Airplane pin near Nieuwland Hall about six weeks ago. Call Mr. Clark at 287-2827. 
···················· ·································· 
LOST: black Wayfarer Ray-Ban sun­glasses (2·3 weeks ago) I can identify them I Please call 4666 
LOST: a gold-laced Timex watch 
burgandy band, Roman numerals 
Lost late on 1\1.10 either near 
LeMan's shuttle atop, on shuttle or be­
tween Main Circle and South 
GREAT sentimental value, REWARD 
PLEASE call Matt # 3610 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOMS,SECURITY SYS­TEM ALSO 2 BEDROOM HOME.BOTH WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
3 BDRM HOUSE, $250 MO ON BLAINE AV CALL 277-0839 
WANTED 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Ph# 233-2342 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Frea Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR 2ND SEMESTER. PRIVATE ROOM IN LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE. WALK TO NO. 255-5852 EVENINGS FOR DETAILS. 
Need help in accounting before finals-big $$$call Mark at 256-7139(1eave messge) 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO COLORADO FOR CHRISTMAS. CAN SHARE GAS AND DRIVING. DAYS FLEXIBLE. CAN PRO· VIDE STOPOVER FOR THOSE GOING FARTHER WEST. CALL PETE AT 283· 4601. 
We need the following NO football memorabilia: Any GA stubs from any home games; Pictures of "'Nobody Leaves NO # 1" banner during Miami game; Photos of Hogs playing in mud on field after Penn State. We will pay you for these items. Please call Chris at 283­3169 or Pete at 263-4601. 
CLEVELAND!!!! I need a ride home for Xmas break. Call Kathie at 4190. 
A FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE A 
TONW-HOUSE IN TURTLE CREEK. 
VERY REASONABLY PRICED. CALL 
EARLY OR 
LATE 284-5001 FOR DETAILS! 
Female Roommate wanted lor 2nd se­mester to share apartment in RunAway Bay. For details call 259-7911 evenings. 
PLEASE! PLEASE! HELP!! The family is coming up. I NEED 4 GA tix for the ND-IU Basketball game. call CRIS X4806 
FOR SALE 
79 BUICK SKYHAWK.LOW MILE,CLEAN LOADED.272-6306 
1978 Ford LTO Wagon. Good Condition $925 or best offer. 684-4621. 
ROUNDTRIP AIRPLANE TIX TO ANYWHERE IN US BEST OFFER CALL 272-9903 
IMPRESS THE GUY OR GIRL OF YOUR CHOICE WITH YOUR CULTURE AND GRASP OF THE FINE ARTS-TAKE A DATE TO THE NUTCRACKER BALLET IN CHICAGO ON DECEMBER 9 FOR A PRE FINALS BREAK!! THIS IS OPENING NITE AND IS NOW SOLD OUT. KNOCK SOMEONE'S SOCKS OFF AND ASK THEM NOW. CALL NORM AT# 3255 FOR MY LAST 2 TIX. 
GOING TO PHILADELPHIA?!? I will sell you your plane ticket CALL 284-5204 ANYTIME! 
TICKETS 
HELP!III need as many ND-IU basketball tickets as I can ~etll Call Colleen at x4053. • 
FOR SALE:! RD TRP TKT TO PHOENIX OR ANYWHERE MIDWAY FLYS. INC­
VIRGIN IS,BAHAMAS,FLA. GOOD 1 YR. $350 
OR BEST OFFER. CHARLIE X2449 
BUYING FIESTA BOWL TOPS PAID 800-286-2461. 
I NEED FIESTA BOWL TIX. WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$. CALL C.B. AT 4364. 
WANTED: 1 OR 2 FIESTA BOWL TIX BY NO ALUM, $125 EA. (415) 781-9570 EXT. 4132 DAYS OR EVENING (COLLECT) AT (415) 456-9240. 
PERSONALS 
UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-8889 
Turkey day has come and gone, and Santa is just around the corner This Friday is the Senior Class Christmas Formal. It is an event you won't want to miss! 
MATH TUTOR-234-3878. 
CLUB 23 Stop by lor dinner or drinks with friends thla week. 
hlag. 
PRAY TO ST. JUDE OF 
....SENIORs•-• LAST MASS OF THE SEMESTER SUNDAY, DEC. 4 4:00PM CAVANAUGH HALL 
ADOPT: Anawer a prayer lor your bab~hlld to share lovnecurlty In happy home. Expenses palcY con­lldentlal1egal. Call collect 415-325­9288. 
BUY..SELL FIESTA BOWL. BUY 90-250, SELL 125-400. AIR & HOTEL AVAILABLE. THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE 800-727-3287. 
FOR SALE :coupon for $98 rdtrip ticket chicago-minr>St. paul for Christmas break # 4850 
MATEO'S SUB SHOP FREE DELIVERY 271-oSUB "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB" 
Going to Florida or vicinity???? I am and I need someone to help share driving and expenses. Call263·2892 if you need a ride. 
NO FIESTA REP: 
THERESA KELLY 
GO WITH THE BEST 
OFFICIAL "G-MAN" (alias: Hll I'm Gery) &DAY WEEKI! SEE IF YOU CAN SAY HAPPY &DAY BEFORE HE ASKS YOU YOUR LIFE STORY!-CHUCKIE 
Attention all Friday Afternoon Club mem­bers: the FAC will NOT be meeting tonight. (We're having a formal instead.) 
Going to Big 4 in Indy? Room for 1 or 2 more?$$ Eric or Don x1710 
FOR SALE-ONE WAY PLANE TICKET From Newark to S.Band leaving late af­ternoon Jan. 16. Good price. Call Laura at 284-5417. 

CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS DELIVERED TO YOUR SWEETIE Come In and choose a stocking, 1111 It with goodies and top It with mistletoe! Let us deliver It lor you anywhere on the Notre Dame or St. Mary's campus. 
The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Canter basement Mon-Frl·12 noon-6:30pm 239-6714 
HEY CHRISTIAN MEKO 1111 HOPE YOU HAVE A SUPER GREAT BIRTHDAY. YOU RULE, THANKS FOR EVERY­THING! 
LOVE JULIE 

GET CONTROL OF YOUR MIND!!! ( ) SEMINARS WITH HYPNOTIST GARY CONRAD MIDNIGHT THURSDAY GEN­ERAL HYPNOSIS FRIDAY 12:00 ATH­LEIC MIND CONTROL 2:00 MIND CON­TROL TO LOSE WEIGHT 3:00 OVERCOMING SHYNESS 4:00 ACA­DEMIC EXCELLENCE FOR EXAMS ALL SEMINARS WILL BE HELD IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM IN LAFORTUNE 
RATPICK-IF YOU COME BACK FROM LONDON A HIPPIE YOUR DAD WILL BEAT YOU SENSELESS AND THEN I'LL GET MY TURN. T.J. AND I WENT 4 WHEELIN' LAST NIGHT AT 3 A.M. WE'LL TELL YOU THAT STORY LATER .... HASBY 
II you can decorate baskets & wreaths, I have a job lor you! Please contact Carol at The Country Harvester, 239­6714. Please call lor an appointment. 
She's nicer than Elvira. She's cuter than Elvira. She swims better than Elvira. I guess I can drop the nickname . 
CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD 
································································ 
CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD •••1rs FREE..•fT"S FUN••• CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD 
BAKER'S SPECIAL Fresh pecan halves & pieces, diced dales, fresh almonds whole & pieces European chocolate ready lor making your own special candles. BUY NOW FOR YOUR HOLIDAY BAKING 
The Country Harvester LaFortune Student Center basement Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30pm 239-6714 
ATTENTION COL: Class on ethics? Tuesdays-Noontime 

HAPPY ANNIVERSARY HON! OOOOGAAM BOOOOGAAMII LOVE ALWAYS, BARB 
V (11th floor 'brair) 
I'd love to meet-up, 
just tell me how! 
DSV2 

...........:.................................................... 
Oh, "Oh" It's gonna be scsry tonight 

................................................................ 
To the cute guy who offered to help me 
•1ith my bags 3 yrs. ago after x-mas break: what the hell was I thinking? Would like to make up for the refusal­would it be too foward to ask you to carry my bag Sat nite? 
I know it is early but I'm already looking for a ride to Mpi&St.Paul. I can leave anytime after 4:00PM on Dec. 14. Please call 284-4430. 
JUNIORS THIS IS IT! YOUR LAST CHANCE TO BE A PART OF THE JUNIOR OOGBOOK SUBMIT CANDID SHOTS 
TODAY!! 
CLASS OFFICE 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE $.50 PER PHOTO GET THE PHOTO ALBUM OUT 
NOW!! 
LErS SEE THE REAL YOU 
NOOMC Compet~ion Ballroom Dancers Practice today 2:30-5:00 at JACC. Ques call Kate(3792) or Mary(1363) 
RESIDENTS OF 352 DILLON APPEAL FOR YOUR SUPPORT IN THEIR NON­STOP WAYNE NEWTON MUSIC MARATHON ALREADY IN PROGRESS. x4122 X-MAS BREAK OR BUST 
MARC, 
An awesome night of passion 
awa~s. Are you ready? 
Love, G 
HEY JOANNA, WISH THIS PLACE WAS DANA POINT! BUT TOO BAD IrS JUST THE OPPOSITE. THANKS FOR THE PERSONALS, YOU'RE THE GREATEST!! 
SENIOR SKI TRIP SIGNUPS DEC. 7 AND 8 IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE FROM 4 TO 7 PM. DON'T MISS OUTII 
JUNIORS SKI TRIP SIGN UPS TUES., WED., THURS. 2-4PM $50 DEPOSIT 
Kiddo-ls this your surprise? Maybe..What? 
Hey Bol: Don't stress. It will all go off okay. 
AHentionll Ann Ballll This ad entitles you to one free dinner and evening's entertainment of your choice in celebration of your birthday! This ad expires today. 
MCHJ 
To the 4 guys in Pangboml We had a great time in LA Love Lisa and Caroline Doug you can run a yellow light! Bill we love your snoring! Brian and the tea cup from hell BillyBot>Grandpa !!SPACE MOUNTAIN!! 
Meg (IRISH PRINCESS), SMILE! Some­one's thinking of you. 
ANNE GALEHOUSE 
(or Whitehouse, W iiouse) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYIII 
HOPE THIS B-DAY IS QUITE 
MEMORABLE FOR YOU! (HA) 
SERIOUSLY, HAVE A GREAT DAY (and also Sat at midnight) Love ya, your wonderlul(nonnal) roommates P.S. Stay away from all closets! 
RIDERS NEEDED to BOSTON I So. NEW HAMPSHIRE lor X-Mas Break! can take up to 4 call BECCA # 4248 
WILL NONE PITY THE POOR PARCHED FOOL? 
Chicago Bus Trip--"Windy City Shuttle" sponsored by the Student Activities Of­fice, will run this Saturday,Dec. 3. The bus will leave the main circle at 9:45am & return at 1Opm. Tickets are available for $10 at the Info. Desk, 1st floor LaFor­tune. Next shuttle will run Saturday, Jan. 
21. 
Jenny Happy Hannuka love you forever Juanqui 
Pitt Club Bus Slgnupa Pitt Club Bua Slgnups Tuea. Lltne 7 
p.m. $60 Roundtrip ???'a call Mike or Kevin x3322 Leave Right Altar Laa1 Final 
TONIGHT 
FUN•FUN•FUN•FU~FUN•FUN•FUN•FIJN" 
THEODORE'5-9-2 FREE FOOD, MUSIC, DANCING TAKE A PICTURE WITH SANTA! TONIGHT TONIGHT IT"S CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD 
TONIGHT AT THEODORE'S ... MUSIC, DANCING, FOOD, AND 
SANTA! 
.."""TONIG~ 
*****9-2AM*.... 
AND IrS ALL FREEIIIII 
FRIDAY, DEC. 9, IS THE LAST ISSU OF THE OBSERVER. GET YOUR GOODBYES AND CHRISTMAS GREETING CLASSIFIEDS IN BEFORE THURSDAY, DEC. 8, 3 P.M. 
CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD TONIGHT THEODORE'S 9-2AM FREE FOOD MUSIC AND DANCING ... AND PICTURES WITH SANTAI!II! 
Ballroom Dance 
presents 
••••• A CHRISTMAS DANCE ••••• 
and 
University T earn Match 
SATURDAY DEC 3 8pm-1am DANCING FOR EVERYONE see top ballroom dancers perform from 
U of Wisconsin & NO in an EXCITING 
exhibition 
admission: $1 for members 
$3 nonmembers 
FREE REFRESHMENTS 
for info call 283-2287 
·····cATCH THE CHRISTMAS 
SPIRIT"'" 
••••• AND SWING WITH US ••m 
OK, now we just calculate ... 
Oh my gosh-where's my caculator! 
I can't believe someone would steal 
our calculators the night before a 
Mechanics test!! Did you leave the 
door open ... 
2 points for B & N! 
ANN VOLZ IS STARTING A PETITION TO KEEP THE MAIN LIBRARY OPEN 24-HRS. SO EVERYONE CAN HAVE ACCESS TO THE BOOKS. IF INTER· ESTED IN SIGNING PLEASE CON­TACT ANN AT 284·5405. 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY NANCY HACKETT Watch out for things thai go VU in the night Love, Rei & Kel 
U.Cai.-Santa Cruz...Go Slugs!!l Hey Power Central-Have a good day! Love, your Aorida roommate. 


-.._ 
., ...1"\ i
·;· I w Matt A&G' teammates season, threat of a hurricane not come up with plays like this early-season kept Alabama coach Bill Curry from taking his touchdown as the Aggles lost 30-10 to Alabama team to Texas. Thursday. The game was originally scheduled for 
'Bama wins 'Hurricane Bowl' 
Aggies fall in game postponed for rain that never came 
Sherrill's future at Texas come to College Station be­
Associated Press 
A&M remains under a cloud be­cause of the threat posed by 
COLLEGE STATION, cause of a Texas A&M investi­Hurricane Gilbert. The storm Texas-David Smith flipped two gation of "hush" money payoff eventually hit Mexico and short touchdown passes and charges by former player game day in College Station Philip Doyle kicked three field George Smith, who later was bright and sunny, with goals to establish an Alabama recanted his statement. temperatures in the 70's. season record as the 20th­The NCAA said it won't take Because Texas A&M is ranked Crimson Tide beat any action against Sherrill un­barred from post-season play Texas A&M 30-10 Thursday til A&M's investigation is com­by NCAA probation, the Aggies night in Jackie Sherrill's 81st, plete. Sherrill has said he won't had looked to this contest as and perhaps last, game as co­resign and will make a state­their bowl game. ach of the Aggies. ment after the school's investi­Alabama coach Bill Curry, 
Alabama improved its gation is completed. Rumors whose team is headed to the 
record to 8-3 while A&M persist he will leave A&M. Sun Bowl against Army: was dropped to 7-5 in a game that The A&M-Alabama game informed before the game that had been billed as "The Hur­was originally scheduled for his contract would be honored ricane Bowl." Sept. 17 but Alabama wouldn't through the 1992 season. 
more depth, and more size. people and getting an NCAA We're just establishing more bid on March 12." Denny consistency in that running Crum's 13th-ranked Louisville
Big Four 
continued from page 20 
game. We're going to play a Cardinals will face Bob Knight matches up Indiana (3-2) and basketball tean that I think has and the Indiana Hoosiers in the Louisville (0-2). Given the his­the capabilities of being one of first game, at 2 p.m. on Satur­tory of the four participating the best teams in the Southeast day. The Hoosiers will be at the schools, it is surprising that Conference and has an excel­Joyce ACC Tuesday to take on only the Irish come into the lent chance of surprising the Irish. 
,~.-.·-·~-~..-...~~~..-...-.....-...-....-. ._.....-...-....-....-....-....-c,_.., 
Classic undefeated. 
Kentucky lost to top-ranked Duke in the Tipoff Classic 80-55 and Seton Hall 63-30 at the 

I SPRI"G BREAK? I
Great Alaska Shootout. Their wins were over Iona (56-54) and I Mexico from $275 i California (89-71), which gave 
I Yeah, we're going back again! And this I
them the consolation trophy at the tournament. 1 time we're hitting the Bahamas from $2991 
Leading the way for the Wildcats, who currently are the 

I I
Don't wait! Make plans now!
target of an NCAA investiga­tion, are LeRon Ellis and Chris Mills. Ellis, a 6-10 sophomore 
L______~Q~~~.1~L----·--·J 
Friday, December 2, 1988 
NBC outbids CBS for '92 Olympics 
Associated Press that the network got the Bar­celona rights. 
NEW YORK-NBC stunned "The first call after I found CBS with a record bid of $401 out was to Terry Ewert, our co­million Thursday to win the ordinating· producer (in 
U.S. television rights to the 1992 Seoul)," Weisman said. "I Summer Olympics in Bar­said, 'I sure hope you saved all celona, Spain. your notes because I threw 
NBC, which televised the mine out.' " Summer Olympics in Seoul, had been considered a longshot Bryant Gumbel, who to get the Barcelona rights. anchored NBC's prime-time CBS was favored because it telecasts in Seoul, said, "I think already owns the TV rights to it's terrific news, especially for the 1992 Winter Games in Al­the guys who worked in Seoul. bertville, France. I'm a little surprised, though. 
I naturally assumed that CBS 
The Barcelona fee topped the had the inside track." previous Olympic record of $309 million paid by ABC for Neal Pilson, president of CBS the Winter Olympics in Cal­sports, said the record fee in­gary. NBC paid $300 million for dicates that his network may the TV rights in Seoul. have gotten a bargain when it 
won the Albertville rights for 
"We didn't go into this to lose $243 million. money," NBC president "Certainly the magnitude of Robert Wright said at a news NBC's bid for Barcelona reaf­conference. "Our plan was de­firms the marketplace value of signed to minimize losses. It's Albertville," he said. not designed to make a lot of ABC sports president Dennis money." Swanson said, "We are disap­
pointed but we congratulate 
Wright also said that as part NBC on the acquisition." of the agreement, NBC agreed It was not immediately to spend $10 million to promote known how much CBS and ABC the city of Barcelona. bid, but a source said NBC's 
offer was "substantially 
Michael Weisman, executive higher." Olympic officials producer of NBC sports, said were seeking a minimum of he was a "little bit surprised" $350 million. 

TROPHIES & SPORTSWEAR 
Trophies • Awards • Screen Printing Embroidery • Advertising Specialties Bowling Supplies • Uniforms 
• Jackets • Caps 
2531 Llncolnway West Mishawaka 259-0014 
SAVE AN EXTRA 10% ON ALL TROPHIES & AWARDS WITH THIS AD 
forward, is averaging 18.3 points and five rebounds per game. With LeRon Ellis in the game, the Wildcats played Duke tough, but the Blue Devils blew the game open after Ellis fouled out. 
Mills, a 6-7 guard, is only the second freshman to start his first collegiate game under Sut­ton. The other was Rex Chap­man, now with the NBA's Char­lotte Hornets. Mills, who is averaging 15.8 points and six rebounds per game, was named outstanding player in the Great Alaskan Shootout. 
Guard Derrick Miller is the first man off the bench for the Wildcats. Miller keyed the vic­tory over California with 36 points off the bench, shooting seven-of-eight from three-point range. 
"That shows you their ex­plosiveness," Phelps said. "When everyone's worried about Mills or looking to Ellis, here's a guy like Miller that can get you points. They've got good people coming off the bench, and they've got size. 
"We have more quickness, 


SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP 
WHERE: SCHUSS MOUNTAIN 


WHEN JANUARY 27-29 
COST $160 SIGN-UPS: 
INCLUDES: 
WEDS. DEC., 7TH AND THURS., 
TRANSPORTATION, HOTEL DEC. 8TH, FROM 4 TO 7 PM. IN ACCOMODATIONS, LIFT TICKETS THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE-2nd 
FOR TWO DAYS AND TWO NIGHTS FLOOR LAFORTUNE. A DEPOSIT OF 
OF SKIING, THREE MEALS, AND A $60 IS REQUIRED (THE BALANCE SUPER BOWL GET-TOGETHER ! 
TO BE PAID AFTER BREAK). 
PLEASE SIGN UP IN GROUPS OF 
4, 6, OR 8. 




Irish 
continued from page 20 
a 92-72 opening-game triumph over St. Bonaventure. 
If Lou Holtz and the Irish football team keep this up for another 20 years or so, imagine just a few of the success stories the year 2008 could hold : 
• Phelps takes the Irish bas­ketball team to the Final Four with a starting lineup com­posed of two junior college transfers, two former Proposi­tion 48 victims and a former Bookstore Basketball star. Digger calls the event the "Herky Jerky to Alber­querque." 

• 
The field hockey program is brought back to the varsity level and immediately wins the national championship. To make room at the varsity level, however, the lacrosse team has to join the club ranks after back-to-back 50-goal losses to its new arch-rival, Johns Hop­kins. 

• 
The Notre Dame wrestling team recruits athletes named "Hulk," "Macho Man" and "the lovely Elizabeth." Fran McCann's squad is disqualified for using illegal weapons in the ring, but record crowds of 


South Bend residents pack the main arena for every meet. 
• 
The Breen-Phillips and Lewis Hall football teams both are invited to the Orange Bowl, and the kickoff time is moved from 8 p.m. to 2 p.m. so that black stuff they smear under their eyes for night games on Cartier Field doesn't go to waste. 

• 
Not only is Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy again in­vited to coach the Dutch Olym­pic team, but the entire Notre Dame team dyes its hair blond and competes under Murphy in the Olympics. The squad up­sets the U.S. team, coached by John Thompson and Bo Schem­bechler. 

• 
The NCAA, which this year named Joe Piane the Division I cross-country Coach of the Year for 1987, waits until 2008 to name the team national champions for the years 1989­2007. 


And to think we're going to miss it all. 
I guess we'll just have to set­tle for a 1988 national football championship. 
"MOVING RRISKIY into the twelfth ceritury R.c., the Soviet Union .has agreed to allow the teaching of Hebrew." 
To 'uh,crthr to Na­twnal Rc••~t••· c:all 
I-XOO-J41-t522. or writ~ NR. 150 Fa'l J5th Strrrt. Nr" 
,_____...... York. NY 10016 
SPRING BREAK ~ 89 
Reservations Available Now 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX hom$149* Sheraton/Holiday Inn/Gulf View 
STEAMBOAT, CQ  hom $93*  
Shadow Run/Overlook  
DAYTONA BEACH, Fl  ••om$118*  
Texan Motel  
MUSTANG ISLAND, TX  ••om $136*  
Port Royal Condos  

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC loom $1 07* Hilton Head Beach Condos 
Don't Wait Until It's Too Late! 

'Depending on Break dates & length of ~lay 

Friday, December 2, 1988 The Observer 
Francisco 
continued from page 20 
One change that Francisco did make was the move from 
1 tailback to corner. He and fel­low senior Corny Southall backed up Allen Pinkett in 1985, and Francisco continued that role the following season. 
Moving to cornerback just before the 1986 campaign, Francisco climbed the depth charts slowly and excelled on special teams. 
His transition was completed in the Michigan game, and he has shared the secondary chores through the season with Southall, Stan Smagala, Todd Lyght, George Streeter and Pat Terrell--all players Francisco looks to for knowledge. 
"I'm a learner," said Fran­cisco. "Those guys have seen so much more than me. I just like to get the job done." 
With his speed, Francisco can get the job done very well. His 4.33 time in the 40-yard 
AP Photo 

Reggie Theus and the Atlanta Hawks have won three consecutive games after an early-season slump. The Hawks Improved to 9-6 Wednesday with a 127-115 victory over the Washington Bullets. 
dash is second on the team to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail. 
Francisco has learned the most from his brother Hiawatha, a Notre Dame tail­back through 1986. 
"It sounds kind of corny," said the quiet, unassuming Francisco. "We have a great brother!friend relationship, and I look up to him. He was an athlete and a student <Hiawatha graduated in three­and-a-half semesters), and he's my idol." 
If Hiawatha was at Notre Dame during the dark days for football, D' Juan has watched and participated in the re­awakening. 
And if the secondary can con­trol one more dangerous quar­terback in Reisman candidate Major Harris and the Irish can defeat West Virginia on Jan. 2, Francisco can reach another pinnacle in his football career. 
While Steve Walsh and Rod­ney Peete come into mind as first-rate quarterbacks whom the Irish have beaten, Fran-
page 15 
cisco compares Harris more to Pittsburgh signal-caller Dar­nell Dickerson. 
And how does Notre Dame like to stop teams? 
"If they catch they ball, make 'em pay," explained Francisco. "They'll have to look for you next time." 
After talking about stopping Harris, Francisco searched through his things and came up with a small newspaper clip­ping which serves to remind him of the respect he and his. teammates have been striving for all season. 
The five-line piece from the USA Today read in part, "USA Today oddsmaker Danny Sheridan says that Miami will beat Notre Dame by at least two touchdowns." 
Though it is crumbled and torn, Francisco keeps the piece for motivation. 
"That's what makes us suc­cessful. We've been underdogs­-we like it. When we win the game, the rest will take care of itself." 


The Observer Friday, December 2, 1988 
Only 1,000 W. Va. students guaranteed Fiesta Bowl tix 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN, W. Va.­West Virginia University stu­dents are guaranteed only 1,000 tickets for the Fiesta Bowl while Notre Dame will have the 

Road to the 
Fiesta 
Bowl '89 
opportunity to send its entire student body if it wants. 
WVU students who want any of the 1,000 available tickets for the Jan. 2 game entered a lot­tery Tuesday and Wednesday, after members of the private Mountaineer Athletic Club and university faculty and staff were allowed to purchase tick­ets. 
At Notre Dame, however, all 9,500 students are being given the chance to purchase the tickets. 
West Virginia has 18,700 stu... dents. 
"We offer tickets first to any students who want to buy them, then all faculty and staff are given an application for two tickets," said Notre Dame ticket manager Lawrence "Bubba" Cunningham. 
Cunningham said that's the usual procedure for home foot­ball games. He said bowl games are usually treated like away games--with priority going to alumni living in the region where the game is played. 
"But because of the tremen­dous support we've gotten from the students this year, we decided to treat the bowl game like a home game," Cunnin­gham said. 
He estimated that 3,000 Notre 
Biomedical Sciences Integrated graduate training opportunities 
• 
Biochemistry/Metabolism /Nutrition 

•Cell 
Biology/ Cell Physiology 

• 
Developmental Biology /Anatomy 

• 
Environmental Health 

Sciences •Immunology/Pathology 

• 
Molecular Biology/Genetics 

• 
Neurosciences 

• 
Pharmacological Sciences Tuition and stipends are provided. Students with a strong academic record should specify an area of interest and contact: Coordinator of Graduate Studies West 452A Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine 2119 Abington Road 


Cleveland, Ohio 44106 216-368-3347 
~,,~ 
ND tix sales right on track 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Fiesta Bowl ticket sales continue today for Notre Dame freshmen and all Saint Mary's students. 
Gate 10 ticket windows at the Joyce ACC will open at 
1:30 pm, as they have been all week. 
Actual tickets are not given out in turn for the $35 ticket fee. Students are given a reciept which must be presented in person at the Scottsdale Princess Hotel on the days preceding the game or at Sun Devil Stadium on game day with a student ID card. 
According to Notre Dame 
Dame students will buy tickets to the game in Tempe, Ariz., which is being billed as a na­tional championship match be­tween the only two unbeaten NCAA Division 1-A teams. 
No. 1 Notre Dame and No. 3 West Virginia both are 11-0. 
"I don't know of another school in the country that does it," WVU ticket manager Jay Redmond said of Notre Dame's ticket priority procedure. 
"They're a private college and we're a public college. Their support base is im­mense," Redmond said. 
"I think it's nice that they can extend their students that. We're just not in a position where we are able to do that." 
Redmond said WVU likes to give its boosters and donors priority in buying tickets be­cause it's "the only thing we ticket manager Bubba Cun­ningham, 1,700 tickets were sold on Tuesday and Wed­nesday, with 851 juniors and 849 seniors purchasing them. Cunningham is pleased with the turnout so far, but he remains cautiously optimistic that all students wishing to go to the game will get a ticket. 
"We had guessed on about 3,000 tickets for students," said Cunningham, "and so far we're pretty close to that pace. 
"We want to stay between 3,000 and 4,000," added Cun­ningham, "If the number goes beyond 4,000, we would certainly consider cutting off sales." 

have to give them in return" for their help. 
"If you take that away from them, they don't have anyth­ing," he said. 
West Virginia is makin its first trip to the Fiesta Bowl. The Mountaineers last atten­ded a "major bowl" in 1954 when they lost 42-19 to Georgia Tech. 
The Mountaineers have at­tended five minor bowls during this decade and have won three of those post-season clashes. 
West Virginia defeated Florida 26-6 in the 1981 Peach Bowl, edged Kentucky 20-16 in the 1983 Hall of Fame and whipped Texas Christian in the 1984 Bluebonnet. The Moun­taineers lost to Florida State 31­12 in the 1982 Gator and was tripped by Oklahoma 35-33 last year in a snowy Sun Bowl con­test. 

NOTRE DAME HOCKEY vs MICHIGAN DEARBORN 
Saturday, December 3rd KAZOO NIGHT!!! kazoos will be given out to the first 1000 who enter. 
*7:30p.m. 

*JACC 
*students $2 *blue-gold cards accepted 
...::: ::iiiill 
@ travelmore
CWRU
......•••••.•..••••••••••, 
Stonebreaker named to All-America teams 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Notre Dam~ junior linebacker Mi­chael Stonebreaker was se­lected to the 45th All­America team announced Thursday by the Football 
Writers  Association  of  
America.  
Joining  Stonebreaker  on  

the linebacking corps were Alabama's Derrick Thomas and Nebraska's Broderick Thomas--the two players who finished ahead of Stonebreaker in the Butkus Award voting--and UCLA's Carnell Lake. 
Stone breaker was the only player selected from the top­ranked Irish. 
Earlier this week, Stonebreaker had been named to the Football News first-team All-America squad. The River Ridge, La., native was joined on that squad by two Irish teammates--senior offen­sive tackle Andy Heck and senior defensive end Frank Starns. 
Sophomore nose tackle Chris Zorich was a third­team selection to the Foot­ball News list. 
On the Football Writers Association of America team, Auburn defensive lineman Tracy Rocker and Florida State defensive back Deion Sanders both were repeat selections. 
Oklahoma State tailback Barry Sanders, who is closing in on the NCAA single-season rushing record, Indiana's Anthony Thompson, Tim Worley of Georgia and quarterback Steve Walsh of Miami, Fla., were chosen for the offen­sive backfield. 
Joining Rocker on the de­fensive line were Wayne Martin of Arkansas, Mark Messner of Michigan and Tim Ryan of Southern Cal. The linebackers were Mike Stonebreaker of Notre Dame, Broderick Thomas of Nebraska, Carnell Lake of UCLA and Derrick Thomas of Alabama. 
Deion Sanders headed a secondary that included Markus Paul of Syracuse and Donnell Woolford of Clemson. The punter was Pat Thompson of Brigham Young. 
The receivers were Jason Phillips of Houston and Clarkston Hines of Duke. 
The front line included Jake Young of Nebraska, Tony Mandarich of Mic­higan State, Anthony Phil­lips of Oklahoma, Mark Stepnoski of Pitt and Mike Utley of Washington State. The placekicker was Chris Jacke of Texas-El Paso. 
\!lffi[TI [ll]®\!il]~ 
fiD~ ~~lW@J®ITTI~ ©@ITTI~®[f 
ND &St. Mary's Students, Faculty & Employees 
(Video Vendor located next to Student Record Shop downstairs) 
Rent from the Video Vendor anytime during normal building hours . . . .. . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
Sign up at the Information counter (Open 9-5) & receive your Video Vendor Membership Card. 

..,.,............................-.. 
The United Way Drive Committee of Notre Dame is proud to announce that Sorin Hall is the  •••  
winner of the dorm competition and are now the owners of a VCR. South Quad also beat  •  
out North Quad in the Penny Drive Competition. The VCR was donated by L.S.Ayres. We  •  
would like to thank them as well as Domino's Pizza and True Value Hardware for their  :  



·• donations to our worthy cause. •
• 


-~----------~--~-----------------------------~~~-----------------­
Friday, December 2, 1988 

The Observer page 17 

BP, Pasquerillas favored in women's draw 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold its final meeting of the semester Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Anybody who has turtleneck­smust either bring in his or her money or the remaining turtlenecks. Money for tryouts ($20) also will be taken. The itinerary will he given for those going to Steamboat, who must make sure to bring in his or her insurance form. Any questions should be directed to Woodsy at 288-5423. -The Observer 
The NO Boxing Club is holding a meeting for anyone interested in joining the club or participating in next semester's Bengal Bouts. The meeting will be Tues­day at 5 p.m. in the boxing gym located at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. For more information, call Mike Noone at x3386. -The Observer 
NVAbasketball refereeshave a mandatory meeting Monday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
LAST YEAR 7.514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

THE COUNTDOWN IS OVER! : By BARB MORAN 
Sports Writer 
• Pasquerilla West,CONNIE 
Pasquerilla East, and Breen­
Phillips are expected to field strong teams in the women's interhall basketball season,
IS 
which begins Sunday. 
• 
The season will feature 13 teams. PW, which finished with a perfect record of 11-0 and beat BP in the championship last year, will field another 
strong team, according to team
THE QUINT : 
captain Jill Bodensteiner. "We'll be good this year, but
& TOMMY e 
probably not undefeated,'' said 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 

IH basketball starts year 
Grace upsets defending champ Stanford 
By KEVIN REISCH Sports Writer 
For many fanatical hoopsters at Notre Dame, the drive for the championship is on. 
Beginning this week, teams put their title hopes on the line 
during  Interhall  basketball  
competition.  The  intramural  
league  features  56  squads  

divided evenly among seven conferences. At season's end, the top two teams from each division, as determined by win­ning percentage, advance to the playoffs. 
At this point, the Big Sky con­ference looks to be the most competitive. On Wednesday night at the Joyce ACC, sopho­more Joe Profy paced Grace A to a 40-37 upset of defending champion Stanford A. 
"We thought if we were going to make playoffs, we had to beat Stanford," said Grace captain Bill Sherman. 
The Stanford Studs hope to 
WHEN: 
CONTACT: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
COST: 
September 16-18, 1988 November 11-13, 1988 
* February 3-5, 1989 March 31-April 2, 1989 
Campus Ministry Office 
(Badin Hall) 239-5242 
December 5 -12 
$15.00 

OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

rebound from the early loss in order to defend their title. 
"We're still pretty young," said captain Chris Broadhurst, "but with only one loss we should have a good chance to make the playoffs." 
The outcome of this contest sets up a crucial showdown be­tween Grace and Keenan on Sunday. Junior Joe Hippler poured in 20 points on Tuesday as Keenan topped St. Ed's, 71­64. 
"We're looking pretty good right now," said Keenan cap­tain Steve McCarthy. "We finished third last year behind the two Stanford teams. This year, we have a lot more people involved." 
McCarthy anticipates possi­ble contributions from Irish football players Pete Hartweger, Rod West and An­thony Johnson in the second se­mester. 
other teams, notably Sorin A, are banking on future assis­tance from varsity athletes. 
Bodensteiner. "We lost a lot height, including two 5-11 players. But we do have our three starting guards back." 
Bodensteiner sees big chal­lenges coming from PE, Lewis and Siegfried, which all boast former varsity athletes on their roster. 
BP lost in the championship round last year and expects to make a strong showing in the season. Unlike PW, BP has gained a lot of height, including three players who are 5-10 or over. The Blitz also has strength in the guard position 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ 
0 Call 239-6900 ;o 
The Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 
MUSEUM S H 0 P 
Christmas Sale 
Saturday, December 3, 1988 10 am-4 pm 

20% off for all members of The Friends 10% off to the public 
·handcrafted ornaments•fine art books·silk scarves· pottery ·T-shirts and sweatshirts including our new Miro sweatshirts •cards-calendars and more 
the perfect place for special gifts 
and has four players returning from last year. 
"We're definitely as good as last year if not better," said team captain Vicki Buth. "We have a definite chance of making it to the finals for the fourth year in ·a row, and maybe of winning--I know the Pasquerillas have lost a lot of people." 
Despite the Pasquerillas' loss of players, Buth still sees both PE and PW as major chal­lenges. She also suspects that the new dorms (Siegfried and Knott) could be the wild cards in the playoffs. 
Sorin coach Mark Laboe hopes the addition of Andy Heck and Kent Graham will provide enough height to solidify his team. 
We're going to be really small compared to our oppo­nents," said Laboe after his squad defeated Dillon in an ACC conference matchup. "We can play with anyone, then again we could lose to anyone." 
Several off-campus clubs also have their sights set on a successful season. One such team, The Boyz, leaped to a strong start by crushing Cavanaugh Hall Tuesday in a Big Sky contest. 
"We've got a lot of talent off­campus," said senior player John Buscher, "and I thinl· we've pulled it all together on this team." 
Interhall basketball competi­tion continues into the second week of February, after which playoff qualifiers battle for the championship. 
I !' I : I. I . . I. .... . 
The Observer 
at
IRISH'-IEXTRA 




NCAA VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT EDITION Ranking: Notre Dame 15th, Penn State unranked in NCAA poll Site: Joyce ACC, Notre Dame Time: Saturday, Dec. 3 at 7:30p.m. Series: Penn State leads 2-0 
Irish battle Penn State in 1st NCAA tourney match 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Winning ugly. 
It may not have been pretty, but all season long, the Notre Dame wo­men's volley­ball team has made it a habit. 
Whether beating highly­

touted oppo-Art Lambert nents, conquer­ing the difficulties of the team's most challenging schedule ever or overcom­ing costly injuries, the Irish have found a way to reach their goals. 
In the process, they also succeeded in earning the program's first top-20 ranking and, more importantly, its first bid to the NCAA tournament. 
So now the Irish prepare to take on yet another challege: The 36-3 Nittany Lions of Penn State, who happen to have more wins than any other team in the tournament. 
And just how important is this match to Notre Dame? 
Saturday night at 7: 30 when the team takes on Penn State in the JACC, they will join the ranks of a chosen few--32 to be exact--who earned the honor of playing for the NCAA Championship this season. 
They will be playing to prove that a program that began eight years ago un­der Head Coach Sandy Vanslager with a 3-19 record, is now--after two consecu­tive 30-win seasons and this year's strong play--a legitimate national con­tender. 
So is the team starting to feel the pressure? 
No, far from it. 
"I think we're going to play well against Penn State," said senior Zanette Bennett. "In fact, I feel like if we put our minds to it we'll go all the way to the Final Four. That's how to­gether the team is right now." 
And Irish head coach Art Lambert shares this confidence. 
"We're not intimidated, not even in the slightest," said Lambert. "I know Penn State's been in the tourney for something like eight straight years, and this only our first time, but I think we'll play well. I like our chances in this thing." 

It is indeed the eighth straight year that the Nittany Lions have earned a bid to the NCAA's and, although they are not currently ranked nationally, they have already recorded more wins than top-ranked UCLA, who is 31-0, and Weber State, who is 32-7. 
Penn State has seen Notre Dame play three times this season, but has only played them once, defeating them in last weekend's Whataburger Thanks­giving Invitational in the consolation match, 15-6, 12-15, 15-13, 3-15 and 15-2. 
The Nittany Lions had traveled to South Bend earlier this season, Oct. 18­19, to play in the Golden Dome Classic, but did not draw the Irish. Instead they lost to Northwestern and then rallied to beat Duke and claim third place honors in the tournament. 
Penn State is seeded fifth going into the first round of the Mideast Regional, but if Notre Dame can get past the Lions they will earn a chance to take on the winner of the Illinois-Illinois State match at 8 p.m. next Friday in Champaign, Ill. 
Fourth-ranked Illinois, which topped 
many pre-season polls, finished its 
regular-season play with a 27-3 record 
and is favored to win the match. 
Notre Dame should not be surprised 
by the teams it may face in the tourn­
ament, as it has already played 10 of 
the 32 teams earning a bid this year. 
The Irish have tallied victories over 
Kentucky, Pacific, Arizona and West­
ern Michigan, who they beat twice, and 
have dropped matches to Stanford, 
Texas, Nebraska, San Jose State and 
Colorado State. 
But the Irish have luck, as well as the odds, in their favor going into Sat­urday night's matchup with the Lions, as they have played consistently well at home en route to a 10-2 record this season. 
Over the past three years, Notre Dame has recovered from a sluggish 12-21 record in 1985, and established it­self a dominant force at home with a 33-6 record. 
"The season starts for us now," said Lambert. "This is where you meet the best and we can't see this as a reward but an opportunity to prove what this year's hard work is worth." 

New combinations bump ND into prominence
• 
Youth is catalyst in '88 success 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 
Something old, something new, some­thing borrowed, something blue. 
With careful measures of each and a little bit of luck, the Irish volleyball team will try to claim a victory over visiting Penn State Saturday and take advantage of its first-ever NCAA tourn­ament bid. 
To make the charm complete, the Irish will need to use the skill of an experienced core of seniors and the raw talent of their underclassmen and then borrow a page from the record books they so aptly filled this year, to provide a fairy tale ending for a season that has left the Irish feeling anything but blue. 
Since they arrived at Notre Dame, seniors Mary Kay Waller, Zanette Ben­nett, Maureen Shea and Whitney Shew­man have had two basic goals: to lead the team to national prominence and earn a bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
But before this year, they had been unable to bring these goals to fruition. 
Now with the addition of a recruiting class rated by American Volleyball magazine as the fifth-best in the country, Notre Dame has found the catalyst needed to not only earn the team prominence, but thrust them to the nation's 15th ranking and into the 32-team field of the NCAA Tournament. 
Irish Stats 
PLAYER GP KILL!PCT AST SA Mary Kay Waller 106 401 .276 8 42 Zanette Bennett 102 354 .290 10 31 Maureen Shea 99 269 .276 43 9 Whitney Shewman 96 152 214 17 17 
Tracey Shelton 56 113 .210 5 17 Julie Bremner 108 103 .276 1224 22 Kathy Cunningham 57 97 .127 6 8 Colleen Wagner 30 55 .184 0 5 
Jenn~er Slosar 22 29 .157 0 2 Joanna Bruno 26 27 .186 20 7 Amy White 45 22 .000 25 6 
Chris Choquette 2 4 .000 0 0 Rachel Hall 19 4 0.53 2 2
,
Katie Kavanaugh 9 , .000 0 
NOTRE DAME 109 1631 .240 1361 168 
"Earning a bid and breaking the top­20 was our goal when we came here as freshmen," said Shewman. "At first it seemed impossible, but each year we have improved and I really think our team has the opportunity now to reach for even higher goals, like the Final Four." 
This year the Irish have been able to synthesize the powerful hitting of Wal­ler, Bennett and Shea, the excellent set­ting of freshman Julie Bremner and the defensive skills of Shewman into a dan­gerous attack. 
Bremner's play has been one of the keys to guiding this attack and ensuring a smooth transition from defense to of­fense. 
She has already shattered Taryn Col­lins' record for single season assists by 211, by tallying 1224 assists and leading the team with 308 digs. 
But Bremner is also dangerous at the net, surprising opponents with 103 kills this year and recording 111 total blocks­-the third highest on the team. 
Bremner's youthful enthusiasm has been matched by super subs, sop­homores Tracey Shelton and Amy White, who stepped into the lineup when injuries sidelined junior Kathy Cunnin­gham and sophomore Colleen Wagner. 
Shelton and White have often pro­vided the spark that has propelled the Irish past the many challenging oppo-
BLK DIGS 
185 208 
135 224 
n 208 
22 296 
18 124
,,, 
308 20 145 6 47 
16 41 15 42 18 72 
,
2 8 20 0 8 
633 1744 
Pairings 
Wnl Regional UCLA (31·0) vs. California (19-14) BYU vs. Arizona (19-13) Washington (2Q-6) vs. Arizona St. (20-12) Stanford (27·2) vs. USC (18-15) 
South Reglo1111l Texas-Arlington (28-3) vs. Pepper­dine (16-15) Kentucky (25-6) vs. New Mexico Florida St. (28-7) vs. Colorado St. (21·11) Texas (29-5) vs. North Carolina 
Mideast Regional Illinois (27-3) vs. Illinois St. (25-8) Notre Dama (18-11) vs. Penn St. (36-3) 
W. Michigan (19-11) vs. Oklahoma (21-8) Nebraska (27-4) vs. Weber St. 
North-Regto11111 Long Beach St. (25-6) vs. UC-Irvine (19·11) 
Pacific (2D-12) vs. UC-Santa Bar­
bara (17-16) San Jose St. (21-13) vs. San Diego St. (25-11) Hawaii (29-2) vs. Cat-Poly SLO 


nents on a schedule ranked by the NCAA as the fourth most difficult in the nation. 
And with the strong play of freshman Jennifer Slosar and Chris Choquette added to the formula, the Irish have the right chemistry to take their game a step higher. 
"I feel very proud of all the girls," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "It has really been a team effort that has gotten us this far. In tournaments like this it's not necessarily the team who has the best players that wins, but the team who functions the best as a team on a given night. Saturday, we want to be that team." 
Senior Career Team Records 



Mary~ W•ller Z.nette BenMtt MaUIMII Shea 1st in total blocks (678) 1st in hitting percentage 1st in digs (946) 1st in block solos (181) (.286) 2nd in total blocks (518) 1st in block assists (497) 1st in kills (1 ,423) 2nd in block assists (389) 1st in service aces (114) 1st in total attempts 2nd in block solos (129) 2nd in hitting percentage (3,401) 2nd in kills (1,166) (.278) 2nd in service aces (1 09) 2nd in total attempts 3rd in kills (1, 145) 2nd in digs (833) (2,923) 3rd in total attempts 3rd in total blocks (419) 3rd in hitting percentage (2,749) 3rd in block solos (109) (.253) 
3rd in block assists (31 0) 3rd in service aces (86) 


Friday, December 2, 1988 The Observer page 19 
.. 
NO~E5 OF 5HAft1£ •A ~I€F R€V/6W •  Mlli?CH. '87: X.Cf'T ON HaVK6K WI?ON& fff'Te'K 5H~K.  (XTlJ!Jef( l38 : ~N€&2£0 WHit£ ft.0551N& (Jf'fei?:J.  

---·--·--·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


CAMPUS 
FRIDAY 
7:30-8 a.m. Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
7:15 and 9:40 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Broadcast News," Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m. African Studies Program and the ND African Student Association Biko-Stewart African Film Series, "Girls Apart," the story of twin 16-year-old South Africans, one black, one white. Center for Social Concerns. 
SATURDAY 
8 a.m.-3 p.m. Law School Admission Test, Engineering 
Auditorium. 9-10 a.m. First Saturday Holy Hour of Reparation to the Im­maculate Heart of Mary, Sacred Heart Crypt. 
3 p.m. Department of Music Concern, David Carter, Cello Recita, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30p.m. ND Hockey vs. MichiganDearborn, JACC. 
SUNDAY 
11 a.m. Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Chapel. 
3:30p.m. The Qi Shu-Fang Peking Opera Troupe of Shanghai, Washington Hall. Tickets available at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office, 12:15-6 p.m. weekdays. Tickets $8, $4. 
7:15p.m. Music Department Concert, Advent Vespers Con­cert, Sacred Heart Church. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Bunwich Batter Fried Chicken Turkey Pot Pie Vegetarian Fried Rice 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
Jerks 
HELLC!, 'liUDENT5 OF ~AIIIIT MAR.Y's Alllll NOTRE 
1)AME! 
..
Conrad 
Hypnotist Extraordinaire! 
GROUP SEMINARS ~ N.D. Room Lafortune 
Friday  12:00 on Sports  
2:00 Losing Weight  
3:00 Over Shyness  
4:00 Academic Excellence  
----­·­ --------­ 

Saint Mary's 
Breaded Fried Fish Italian Lasagna Fettucini Carbonara 
Deli Bar 
PEOPLE OFTEN ASK US 
WI-\'(  WE  GOT  INT"O  
THE  COMIC.  BUS\NE".55 ••.  
a}  

AND WE WANT TO SAY THAT !IS NOT THE MOI\IEY, NOT THE FAtv\E 
NOT  TI-\E  GLOR'i'. NO,  '  
IT'.S  MUCI-\  MORE"  
THAN  Tt-\AT.  


NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Berke Breathed 
Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 

Thursday: Willy Wonka & The Chocolate Factory Friday: Blues Brothers Saturday: The Gods Must Be Crazy Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2 
WE'RE IN IT FOR 
THE BABES. 


55 Harte-Twain play 56 Frond? Indeed! 58 Cylindrical 
smokestacks 61 Feline activity 
64 Street game 65 Did some cobbling 66"-the Queen'" 67 Good for nothing 
DOWN 

1 "Bei-Bist Du Schoen" 2-Kahnlll 
3 Old knife 4"For­jolly ..." 
5 Brooke and Field 

6 Grand-tour site 7 Count chaser 8 Ghanaian region 
9 "He wos wery -,hewos!": Dickens 
10 Antilles, e.g. 11 Rock singer Rundgren 12 Buchwald or 

Garfunkel 13 Abbr. for royal 
personages 14 Potato bud 20 Part of 
"G.W.TW." 

ACROSS 
1 Cape Cod town 
8 Churn 
15 Fiery 
16 Words of 
apology 11 Poker players, at times 18 -line (stand 
firm) 19 Roman censor 20 Proceeded with 
effort 21 Harvard's 
president 23 Dashes 25 Shirt type 28 Arrow poison 30 "... -live.. " 31 Contribute 32-Rebellion in 
R.I.: 1842 34 Capricious 361nfluence 38 Actor Estrada 39 Of ropes or 
cords 44 Creek 47 Old Egyptian 
symbol 48Yawned so Actor Richard 
from Philadelphia 51 Fannie­52 Of current interest 54 Moscow's­Square 
21 Auction action 
22 Ybko 
24 Kind of deal 
25 Reminder of 
sorts 26 Actress Le 
Gallienne 27 <:;bnger 29 A;ctor Stu 31 Preparing for 
mil. inspection 
The Far Side 
33 U.S.A.F. wing 35-Lanka 37 Belgradian 39 Albee's "­
andYam" 40 Actress Hagen 41 The track: Fr. 42 Hear-drop 43 Hall or room, for 
short 45 Before, to Byron 46AKennedy 
49 The -,city in Ore. 52 Receptacle 53 Rent 55 Genus of ducks 57 Mil. infraction 58 Brume 59Numero­60 Actor Beatty 61 French vineyard 62 Dutch resort 63 Mdse. 
Gary Larson 

"Big Bob says he's getting tired of you saying he doesn't really exist." 

... 
Friday, December 2, 1988
p,e 20 Sports 
~ 
~' 
1/11' 
.( ,.. ,. ) 
,., J 
" 

The "kiss of death" is gone. 
Shunning superstition and looking to the future, Notre Dame head basketball Digger Phelps has kissed his 18-year tradition good-bye and won't be wearing his trademark green carnation anymore. 
Breathing life in to the Irish is freshman forward LaPhonso Ellis, who led the Irish to a 92-72 win Monday over St. Bonaven­ture with 27 points and 10 rebounds. Phelps is not doing anything to jinx his young player. 

ND in Hoosier Dome for Big Four Classic 
Irish plan to meet Kentucky in 2nd part of doubleheader 
"I'm not putting heat on that kid at all," Phelps said. "I'm just letting him play and I'm not going to make comments about him to where it would be a kiss of death. That's why I got rid of the green carnation. It's a kiss of death, and I'm just showing up and coaching these kids, and that's all I'm going to do." 
The carnation and Ellis won't be the only things that will be different when the Irish take the court in the Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis at the Big Four Classic. 
The Irish are a much younger team. Gone are the upperclas­smen who led Notre Dame to a victory over Louisville at last year's inaugural Classic. Phelps says the Irish will play 11 men, including five fresh­men and two sophomores. 
The opponent will be different--The Irish play the Kentucky Wildcats (2-2), who start a lineup even younger than the Irish but have more game experience this season. 

"The fact that this'll be their fifth game compared to our second game," Phelps said, "means that they have worked out some kinks, especially playing on the road." 
The Irish game plan is to change the style of play against the Wildcats. The Irish have gone to a running game, while Kentucky is more deliberate. 
"I think they're anxious to play in this type of game," Phelps said. "We'll see whe­ther they want to play the game they have been playing, which is not a transition game, and that's what we're trying to do. So it's going to be a chess match because (Kentucky coa­ch) Eddie Sutton does a good job of getting teams ready to play." 
The first game of the Classic 
see BIG FOUR, page 14 

Dalmon Sweet (22) Is one of five freshmen on the Irish squad this season. Notre Dame Is the only undefeated team playing In Saturday's Big Four Classic at Indianapolis. 

Hockey team looking to stop its winless streak 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team hopes to end its eight­game winless streak this weekend when it faces rival Michigan-Dearborn, the last team it has beaten this season. 
The Irish (3-10-2) travel to Dearborn Friday for the first game of the series and return home Saturday night to take on the Wolves at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. 
Notre Dame defeated Michigan-Dearborn 4-1 at home on Nov. 4, the date of its last victory. The two teams battled to a 3-3 tie the following night. The Irish rallied from a 3-1 deficit in the third period to tie the game. 
"Those were two fairly evenly-matched games," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We know that every game we're in we have to play with a lot of enthusiasm." 
Since that weekend, the Irish have not exactly experienced the best of times. Notre Dame tied Air Force Nov. 11 and has lost six consecutive games since then. 

Michigan-Dearborn has yet to beat Notre Dame this season, but the Wolves cur­rently hold a 13-9-2 lead in the all-time series between the two teams. 
The Irish are coming off a disappointing 8-3 loss to Illinois-Chicago last Saturday in which they fell behind 8-0 just over six minutes into the 
second period. 

Freshman forward David Bankoske netted two assists in the game to up his team­leading total to 13. He presently 
Francisco knows he belongs 
Senior cornerback leaves his mark on Irish secondary 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The date was Sept. 10, 1988 and Michigan was driving against the Notre Dame defense late in the fourth quar­ter. 

Road to the 
Fiesta Bowl '89 
A touchdown would have given the Wolverines victory in the season opener for both teams, and 59,075 raucous Notre Dame fans were on their feet. 
One Notre Dame cornerback surveyed the situation and made a realization. 
D'Juan Francisco finally knew that he belonged in the 

D' Juan Francisco 
Notre Dame defensive back­field. 
"They had the ball and I knew that one touchdown would mean a loss for us," said Francisco, a 5-11, 187-pound senior from Cincinatti. "I looked up at the clock; it was late in the game, and it really gave me confidence (that I was still in the game) . The coaches had confidence in me, and it felt good. I wasn't going to let anyone down." 

Francisco has taken that con­fidence through 11 games, and knows that it will continue in the 12th and final matchup. 
"We want to be the best team on the field every Saturday--we want to dominate," Francisco said. "Why change anything now?" 
For Francisco, winning ana­tional championship will be nothing new. 
His high school team, Moel­ler, won the mythical national championship in Francisco's junior year, as he rushed for over 1600 yards and scored 27 touchdowns. 
See FRANCISCO, page 15 
leads the team in scoring with 16 points. 
Notre Dame continues to struggle in the scoring depart­ment, however. The Irish have been outscored by their oppo­nents 76-45 this year, including 16-13 in power-play situations. 
"It'd be nice if we could score some goals this weekend," said Schafer. "In four of the lastfive games we've had a lot of scoring opportunities. We just haven't been able to convert. That has a tremendous impact on how you play the rest of the game/' 
Lance Madson is expected to start in goal for the Irish against Michigan-Dearborn. Madson has appeared in all 15 games this season and has a goals-against average of 4.94 on the season. 

Center Brian Montgomery, who went down against Mer­rimack with a thigh contusion, is out for the weekend's games. He is expected to return to the Irish lineup in time for the Fer­ris State game on Dec. 20. 
In an effort to generate campus spirit for the weekend action, kazoos will be handed out to the first 1,000 students at Saturday's game. 
2008: An Irish sports odyssey 
There's an adage in sports that winning breeds winning. 
Perhaps that explains why so many Notre Dame varsity teams are having unprecedented seasons in the same year that the top-ranked, unbeaten Irish football team has put itself one victory away from a national championship. 


Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 
The men's soccer team earned a first-ever NCAA tourn­ament bid before bowing out in the first round to Southern Methodist. Likewise, the volleyball team opens its first NCAA tournament action when it hosts Penn State Satur­day night at the Joyce ACC. 
The men's cross country team finished ninth in the nation despite injury problems, and Head Coach Joe Piane was named 1987 (yes, 1987) Division I Coach of the Year. The Notre Dame basketball team will be the only undefeated team competing in Saturday's Big Four Classic, following 
see IRISH, page 15 







