

A short reprieve
etc. 
Sunny Friday morning,
Irish Extra increasing cloudiness and 
Chicago roadtrip: 
warmer. High near 50. A 60 percent chance of rain Friday

Second City 
night. 


WEEKEND EDITION, NOVEMBER18-19 , 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Campus phones suffer partial software failure 
VOL. XXII, N0.57 

By MATT GALLAGHER 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The student phone extension at Notre Dame suffered a software failure, causing a par­tial loss of service to all "283" extensions. 
According to Steve Ellis, director of Telecommunica­tions, the software failure was caused by a power surge during storms Tuesday night. 
"The power surge caused a slow corruption of the tele­phone software," Ellis said. As a result, the problem was not noticed unil Wednesday mor­ning. 
On-campus students encoun­tered difficulty in making local, "dial-9" telephone calls. Also, people calling any "283" number had a difficult time getting through. 
Ellis said that the office of telecommunications had one engineer and three technicians working on correcting the prob­lem non-stop, from the time problems were noticed on Wed­nesday morning, until full service was restored af about 4:30p.m. Thursday. 
"It wasn't a complete fail­ure," Ellis said, noting that stu­dents could still dial other "283" extensions, the campus operator, and security. 
Labeling the breakdown a "major system failure," Ellis said the problem was what is known as a "direct inward dialing problem." 
Ellis noted that students could still use the Clark long­distance service, which is reached by dialing "7" from "283" phones. 
Tony Paese, spokesman for Indiana Bell in Indianapolis, said that Indiana Bell was un­aware of any problems occur­ing in the area, other than those created by a brief power outage 
see PHONE, page 5 


Bush visit to NO stirs faculty reaction 
By CHRISTINE WALSH 
Staff Reporter 
Some University officials have aired reservations about the recent visit by Vice Presi­dent George Bush in the after­math of a Faculty Senate resolution concerning the event. 
The Vice President was in­vited by the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Govern­ment to deliver what was hoped to be an issue-oriented lecture about the ideological differ­ences between himself and Governor Michael Dukakis. The Bush campaign said Bush would deliver a major policy speech. 
What the 900 students, and other members of the audience heard and saw was neither. In­stead, University officials claim, the event turned into little more than a political ral­ly. 
"What took place here is the product of the disturbing way campaigns are run now," said Professor Stephen Fallon, who co-sponsored the Faculty Sen­ate resolution that criticized Bush's Nov. 1 visit. 

"But Notre Dame was caught asleep by allowing its name to be used," said Fallon. "Notre Dame should help can­didates answer questions, not stage more pep rallies." 
Richard Conklin, vice presi­dent for University relations, said that "Inevitably, it is hard to avoid the appearance of a rally." With so many members 
see BUSH, page 5 

Bhutto wins Pakistani elections, hopes to form majority government 
Associated Press 
KARACHI, Pakistan-Benazir Bhutto's Populist Party defeated the right wing in the first free election since a coup ousted her father 11 years ago, and she expressed confidence Thursday that she can form a majority coalition. 
Ms. Bhutto said her Pakistan People's Party "has emerged as the largest single party" in 
the  National  Assembly  as  a  
result  of  Wednesday's  par­ 
liamentary election.  

"Given consultations with different groups and indepen­dent people, we are confident that we can get a simple majority," the 35-year-old po­litical leader declared after ar­riving in this southern city for coalition talks. She would be the first woman ever to lead a Moslem nation. 
Her party captured 92 seats in the 237-member assembly, compared with 55 for the nine­party conservative Islamic Democratic Alliance. The alliance includes supporters of Gen. Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, the military president killed in a plane crash three months ago. 
Independents and minor par­ties got 57 seats. Results from 13 districts were not available and 20 seats reserved for wo­men will be filled later by vote of the assembly. 
Both Ms. Bhutto and the con­servative alliance have said they would continue Pakistan's friendship with the United States and its support of Mos­lem guerrillas fighting the communist government of neighboring Afghanistan. 
PENN STATE WEEKEND EVENTS 
Friday 4:45-6 p.m. Glee Club Practice (OPEN), Crowley Hall 
6:45 p.m. Band Step Off for Pep Rally, Wash­ington Hall 7 p.m. Pep Rally, JACC, North Dome 
Saturday 9 a.m.-Game Time Notre Dame and St. Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially invited to the Alumni Hospitality Center. Films and infor­mation will be available. JACC, North Dome, Enter through Gates 2 and 3 
10:30 a.m. Shenanigans, JACC, North Dome 
10:35 a.m. Band Concert on Steps, Main Build­ing 11 a.m. Cheerleaders Performance, JACC, North Dome 
11 
:15 a.m. Line up and Step Off, Washington Hall 

11 
:40 a.m. Pre-Game Program, Football Stadium Noon Football Kickoff, ND vs. Penn State Following the Game: Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC, North Dome, Enter through Gates 2 & 3 



page 2 

IN BRIEF 
A 81-B bomber crashed near Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota, a Defense Department spokesman said early Friday. Navy Lt. Cmdr. James Kudla said the crash occurred at about 1:30 a.m. EST. "I do have a report that there has been a ~;ash of a . B1-B bomber at Ellsworth Air Force Base, Kudla satd. "I have no other information right now." "As of now we have no information on fatalities," Kudla said. "Right now at least it looks like there were no fatalities." 
-Associated Press. 

Two smokestacks at the Notre Dame powerplant were repainted over the weekend of Nov. 5, said Director of utilities John DeLee. The two smokestacks, numbers four and five, were sandblasted and painted by .the Chicago-based Correct Maintenance Corp. The last bme this was done was twelve years ago. -The Observer. 

OF INTEREST 
The NO Preprofessional Society will.present ~ short video and discussion by Dr. T. McLoughhn, psycht­atrist11eurologist, entitled, Brain Imaging and the Futures of Psychiatry and Neurology on Sunday, Nov. 20 at 1 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland. 
-The Observer 
Grace Hall 24-Hour Run begins today at 11 a.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. All proceeds go to the Northeast Neighborhood Center of South Bend. 
-The Observer 
Photographers are Needed to work on the 1989 Junior Parents weekend slide show. Those interested who have a 35mm camera should contact Dianna Gulott at 283-2639. 
-The Observer 
Attention Sophomores: Applications are now being accepted for the Sophomore Committee for Junior Parents' Weekend 1989. They may be picked up in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd Floor LaFortune, any time during regular business hours and returned to the same place by this afternoon. 
-The Observer 
Right to Life Washingt~n March details will be given on Sunday, Nov. 20th m LaFortune Montgomery Theatre at 7 p.m. All interested in the bus trip to D.C. on Jan. 21-23 must attend. 
-The Observer 

The Kuljken Quartet will be performing the Flute Quartets of Mozart in a concert program on Sunday, Nov. 20 at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
-The Observer 

Attention Juniors: The JPW Mass needs your help. We need talented and interested people to create a cover design for the Mass program, to write a tribute communion prayer for our families, and to compose an idea for a communion song to be sung by members of our class. An informational meeting will be held on Tuesday, Nov. 29 at 5:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Questions call James Brandt X3265. 
-The Observer 

Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
f----Ib-..,.-.e-0-Jbse-_.-_rYe--=-:.-r_-_.-___, 
............................................. Sue Barton Design Assistants . .......... Beth Peterson ND Day Editor ............... Betsy Mennell ............................. Shannon Poley SMC Day Editor .............. Sarah Demel Typesetters....... . Molly Schwartz Photographer ................. Trey Reymond .......................................... Paul Jackson Ads Designers ..................... Molly Killen News Editor ................. Matt Gallagher .......................................... Anne Kenney Copy Editor . . . . .. . . . . .. Christine Walsh ................................... Mary Bridget Silk Sports Copy Editors ... Steve Megargee ......................................... Meg Callahan . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . ....... Scott Brutocao ............................................ Kerry Clair Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Pat Zande Irish Extra Edi!ors . . . . . . . . Marty Strasen Etc. Editor . . . ......... John Balsi ............................................ Pete Gegen Etc. Designer... Tim Irvine Irish Extra Design ..... Annette Rowland Typists.. Val Poletto 
Design Editor ... . ..... David Roth 
~--------------------------------------~ 
-~~~-~----------. 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November18-19, 1988 
College is more than just finals and grades 
Thanksgiving is less than a week away. 
Depending on your perspective, though, it may be one-last-home-football-game-ever-as­a-student away; three tests, two term papers, and one project away; or just a twelve-hour drive or six-hour layover at the airport of yourchoice away. 
At any rate, I fear, for most of us Thanksgiv­ing lies further away from us than we can com­prehend, lost in the shuffle of paperwork and busywork and workwork. 
When we arrive at home, some of us actually may be able to relax for a few hours. It will be a chance to see our family and some friends from high school. We can overeat instead of overdrink for a change, engulf ourselves in the mass of shoppers at our good ole' hometown mall, and maybe catch a colorized version of Miracle on 34th Street just to get in the mood. 
The mood, though, will disappear immedi­ately upon our return to school. We will be faced with just ten class days to rectify a semester's worth of damage ensued by roadt.ripping, Mon­day nights out, and just general blowing-off. 
Yet another holiday which should make us stop and reflect will get shoved to the side simply because it comes at an inopportune time in the semester. 
For five days, we will eat, breathe, and I 
wishfully add sleep, finals. They will become -----------------• 
the all-consuming concern in our lives, over­shadowing everything, most of all our celebra­tion of Christ's coming to our world on our terms, as a human being. 
December 15, not December 25, will be the focus of our existence. With a great sigh of relief it will all be over. Suddenly, quiet. 
I had a bizarre experience freshman year. I had pulled the first all-nighter of my young aca­demic career, cranked out an 8 a.m. exam, went home and crashed. I woke up about 6 o'clock that evening to a deserted dorm. It was so quiet I felt like I was in some surrealistic dream­movie, in which everyone had picked up, moved out, and forgot to tell me about it. 
At any rate, all mv friends had already left for Break and in our collective busy-ness, I hadn't really said good-bye or Merry Christmas to any of them. 
Let's face it "finals" is a misnomer. These tests are final only in the sense that that par­ticular chapter of your academic career is over. There will be others. Stop and ask yourself, "Did I learn anything in that class?" not "Did I get an 'A'?" 
Sure, grades are important, but only on transcripts and in interviews and not in life. Other people may judge you on the basis of them, but if they are the sole basis of your your personal self-worth, you are making a grave error. 
One glimpse at my GPA tells you that grades aren't the most important thing in my life. As I try to explain them away to interviewers next 
lln.IIII.IIIIIIII.III.IIIIIIIIIJJI". 
~=-~== 
======
-~~--~
-=-­
.111II111II11IHI•III.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlh•... 
-This week:
== 
= 

= 
: =  Put on your dancing shoes because we have campus D.J.'s three nights in a row!! Thursday's hours: 10-1  ;  
= Friday and Saturday: 10-2  1.•  
=  Hungry or thirsty? check out Ted's Hideaway then---you won't be disappointed!  =  

.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll. 
Sara 

Marley ,,.:.ft 
Assistant News Editor 
lflg_dtn£ = ~~=
====I=
~-~-=
-

year, I may have some regrets, but I doubt it. It's not that I'm not capable of studying more than I do, it's that I've found other things that are also important and worthy of my time and effort, not the least of all being my personal sanity. I've learned countless things in the past two and a half years that you can't learn on the tenth floor of the 'Brare. 
I already can't tell you how I did on my exams last semester. Imagine what it will be like in ten years? While it would be a travesty to waste an educational opportunity like Notre Dame, it is equally frivolous to throw away the chance to really get to know some of the great people this place attracts. 
All I know is that at our five-year reunion, I want a few people to recognize me because I was out and about doing something on campus instead of holed up in some study carrel I want to be able to look back and say, yeah, I skipped a few classes, I went to every football game for ten weeks, I've eaten some popcorn at the Com­mons on a weeknight. Along with this, I met some great people, I had a lot of fun, I learned a lot about myself, I did some growing up, and I made the most of what college has to offer. 

~-··q'UUIIIIIIIIIII.III!IIIII.IIIIIIIII.IIIIII 
~ 

.....llldlllllllllllll.lllilllll.llll.lll.lllll = 
== 
-


Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 The Observer page 3 

t················································~
+ FRESHMAN• :  FRESHMAN CHICAGO TRIP FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1988  FRESHMEN:• :  
:  9:00A.M. to 10:00 P.M.  :  
:  MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY, ART INSTITUTE,  :  
:  WATER TOWER PLACE, LOOP, SEARS TOWER  :  
+  BREAKFAST, LUNCH, DINNER IN A  RESTAURANT  t  

t TICKETS MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES OFFICE t :FRESHMEN $15.00 ALL INCLUDED FRESHMEN: 
'················································~ 
J 
/ 

Sharp 
Magician Stuart McDonald mesmerizes his audience at Thursday night's showing of the "Magic of Stuart and Lori," held in Washington Hall. The magic show was one of the events scheduled for Middle Eastern Week. 
The Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Exclusive Notre Dame Golf Wear and Equipment Distinctive Gifts for Christmas and all Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas Open Year-Round Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial Ice Cream -Fountain Service 
SEND FOR OUR BROCHURE AND ORDER FORM 
Golf Shop -University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239-6425 
NEXT TRIP TO CAMPUS... 
VISIT THE BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE 18 Hole Golf Course Puuing Green Practice Fairway 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP Exclusive Notre Dame Golf Wear and Equipment Distinctive Gifts for Christmas and all Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
SEND FOR OUR BROCHURE AND ORDER FORM 
Golf Shop -University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239-6425 
Minorities in corporate life subject of Coke VP's talk 
By JIM LANG News Staff 
The economic necessity for corporate America to infuse minorities into management positions was the topic of Thursday's Cultural Diversity lecture by Carl Ware, senior vice president of the Coca-Cola Corporation. 
Ware predicted that 85 per­cent of the workforce hired be­tween now and the year 2000 will consist of minorities and women, presenting a "national mosaic" of potential workers to corporate America. · 
Because of this, Ware ex-
New parking lot will open near 8-2, will have better lighting and safety precautions 
By MIKE O'CONNELL News Staff 
A new parking lot was paved across from the library, just south of Bulla Road, as an ex­tension of the B-2 parking lot in efforts to remedy the shortage of parking spaces at Notre Dame. 
The lot remains closed as final preparations are com­pleted, and the new lot will be equipped with better lighting as an extra safety precaution. 
"The new lot should be com­pleted by the end of Thanksgiv­ing break, and it will be open to faculty and students with hopes of meeting the various 
"ALL THE INDIGNATION would carry more conviction if the phrase 'negative campaigning' had been heard in connection with the negative campaign of 1987: the defamation of Robert Bork. Lib­erals who fret about what campaign spending does to elections didn't reflect on what Norman Lear's 
~oney was. do-To subscribe to Na­mg to the mde-tiona/ Review call pendence of the 1-800-341-1522, or 'udiciary." write NR, 150 East 5th Street, New 
..____... ork, NY 10016. 
g~tWf'LL
CHIIIESE·liiEIICAIIRESTAUUIIT 
Aulhenllc s-clluen, M8lldllrln A Huun Cul8lnel 
Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at______ S4.95 
Restcnuallt open 1 days Mon.·Tbura. 11:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sat.ll:3D am to II pm Sun. &Holiday& II:30 am to 10 pm 
130 Dixie Hwy.• Boacalcmd (aext to Ranclall'•IDn) 272-7376 
plained, businesses who wish to succeed and broaden their markets will have to reflect this influx of minority workers in their management struc­tures. 
"The advancement of minorities into the ranks of cor­porate management is a busi­ness necessity," he said. 
One major barrier to the ad­vancement of minorities is the recent corporate trend of leverage buying, said Ware, a strategy which results in the "decimation of middle man­agement." 
It is in these middle manage­
ment positions that most 
needs of everyone involved," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of security. 
"At this point, we can not say for sure who will be allowed to use the lot, but there is a pos­sibility that residents of Knott, Siegfried, Farley, and B.P. will be included," said Johnson. 
According to Don Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant, "The land for the new lot was bought last year with part of the funding we are alotted each year." 
"We've been working on this project since September, in which time we cleared and filled the land and put down two layers of asphalt," said Dedrick. · minority executives are cur­rently employed, Ware said, and as a result they will have to work to break into the top level management positions. 
Finally, Ware discussed edu­cation's place in the corporate world. saying that "education and business-must be partners if students are to succeed in corporate America." 
Ware recieved his B.A. from Clark College and went on to the University of Pittsburgh for his master's degree in Public Administration. 
Johnson also commented on the parking problems that have plagued Notre Dame in the past few months. 
"My major concern, outside of major campus events such as home football games, is parking," Johnson said. "People don't always under­stand that we must work inside a budget like everyone else, and some of the suggestions they make such as extra light­ing aren't economically feasible." 


Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988
page 4 The Observer 


Los Angeles police officers Lisa Hutjens (left), and Stephen Carmona escort Dorothea Montalvo Puente, 59, down a hallway at Rampart police station in Los Angeles late Wednesday night after she was arrested 
U.S., allies successfully move to shore up falling dollar 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The United States and its major economic allies successfully intervened Thursday to halt a slide in the value of the dollar, but economists predicted that the Federal Reserve will be forced to boost U.S. interest rates in a further defense of the beleaguered U.S. greenback. 
The coordinated intervention in the currency markets by the United States, Japan, West Germany, England, France, Italy and Canada was the most widespread dollar rescue effort since last April, when the markets were stampeded into a dollar sell-off following a bad monthly trade report. 
Despite the success of Thursday's rescue effort, many traders foresaw renewed selling pressure in the months ahead because of fears that President-elect George Bush 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 
3300 L.W.W. (US 20) open 24 hours LOW daily, weekly, group & student rates available All modern, clean unita, FREE cable, phone and COHee 
(219) ~34-4063 
and the new Congress will be unable to reach agreement on ways to trim the budget deficit. 
Investors are concerned that the enlarged Democratic majorities in Congress and Bush's tough no-tax stance guarantee further budgetary gridlock. 
For this reason, many economists predicted the Federal Reserve will be forced in coming weeks to begin push­ing interest rates higher in the United States. Some analysts said they would not rule out an increase in the discount rate, the interest the Fed charges to make loans to member banks. 
A boost in the discount rate is the most dramatic signal the 



COPIES HALF OFF 
Fed can send of its intention of driving interest rates higher. 
Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated invest­ments more attractive to foreigners and help relieve the pressure to sell off such assets. Higher interest rates also dampen inflationary pressures brought on by a weaker cur­rency. 
Intervention is the process by which the Federal Reserve or other countries' central banks buy and sell currencies in an attempt to influence the mar­ket price. 

After your first 100 copies of one original at the regular price, the rest are halfprice. 
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23 271-moo 

Suspect in California slayings apprehended 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO, Calif.-A landlady suspected of killing seven elderly tenants at her boardinghouse to collect their Social Security money said Thursday she had cashed some checks but was no killer. 
Dorothea Montalvo Puente, who vanished Saturday after police unearthed the first of seven bodies buried in the yard of her boardinghouse, was ar­rested at a downtown Los An­geles motel late Wednesday after a pensioner she had ap­proached in a nearby bar be­came suspicious. 
Detectives brought Puente back to Sacramento early Thursday in a jet rented by a Sacramento television station. She was being held in Sacramento County Jail on one murder count, awaiting ar­raignment in Municipal Court later Thursday. 
During  the  flight,  she  
granted  a  brief intervie w  to  
KCRA-TV.  

"I have not killed anyone. I told you that. I have not killed anyone. The checks I cashed, yes," Puente said. 
She also said, "I used to be a very good person at one time." 
KCRA-TV reporter Mike Boyd described Pente as "not in the least" emotional or upset during the flight. 
The 59-year-old ex-convict was wearing the same pink dress and bright red coat that she was seen in five days ear­lier, when she walked away from her home. 
At that time, police said they didn't have enough evidence to detain her. But after the other bodies were discovered, a mur­der warrant was issued for Puente and a search launched in California, Nevada and Mexico. 
Police Chief John Kearns said she apparently went to West Sacramento on Saturday, then took a cab to Stockton, where she boarded a bus for Los Angeles "and has probably been there since that time." 
Puente was arrested after CBS television told Los Angeles police that a viewer called to report meeting her in a down­town bar. She had given the man the name and room num­ber of the motel where she was staying, and police arrested her there a few minutes later. 
"The suspect had struck up a conversation with a male sub­ject in a bar. They had been talking about Social Security,'' Kearns said. The two went to her nearby motel room and "during the time he was talking to her, he realized it was the murder suspect he had seen on television." 
The man, Charles Willgues, 67, said he became suspicious after Puente, who called her­self Donna Johanson, ques­tioned him at length about his Social Security benefits. 

CAMPUS VIEW APAR,.MEN,.S 
HAPPY ,.BANKSGIVING 
Renting now for August 1989 Furnished Apartments Indoor pool Exercise Equipment 
¥-FOR 

and Jacuzzi Spa 
INFORMATION 
CALL 
272-1441 


Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 

AP Photo 

Photographing radiotelescope debris 
Wesley Sizemore, a worker at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory at Green Bank, West Virginia, takes pictures of the debris after a 300-foot diameter radiotelescope collapsed on Tuesday. 
The Observer 

Class 
continued from page 13 
YOU ARE INVITED TO OUR PRE-HOLIDAY SHOPPING BAZAAR 
Beautiful Quality Hems 

Come & Find Something Special For YOURSELF OR A GIFT FOR SOMEONE SPECIAL 
Room 108, LaFortune Student Center FRIDAY 11-7, SATURDAY 9-2 
MC & VISA ACCEPTED 

L'EQUIPE VERMIN SOCCER FIASCO!!!!! L"EQUIPE VERMIN SOCCER FIASCO!!!!! FRIDAY 9:00PM 'TIL ??????????????? MEET THE SOC­CER STUDS FROM THE INTERNATIONALLY REKNOWNED CLUB OF L'EQUIPE VER­MIN ... AUTOGRAPHS ... AWARDS ... CHICKS ... BEVERAGES??????? CALL GEN. MANAGER DAVE BROCKWAY FOR ALL THE FULL DETAILS L"EQUIPE VERMIN SOCCER FIASCO L'EQUIPE VERMIN SOCCER FIASCO 
....... ······················ ·················-......... HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KURT G. LOVE, MAURA 
ATTENTION ALL NEW AND OLD FRIDAY AFTERNOON CLUB MEMBERS The FAC will be meeting tonlte, as usual, SPM, 
you know where ... 
FAC FAC FAC FAC FAC FAC FAC FAC 
Bakes and T WORD! Where ya goin' dissin' us? Thank you very LITTLE!! 

TO:CORNELL SWEATSHIRT What, no tables on 12? I guess I'll have to stay on 2, I think it's better down there anyway! Hope you breezed through the Big D exam. 
A. 

Hey you boys and girls, darners and domettes, SMiCers and all! Don't forget your MARSHMALLOWS!!!!! Give those sore Lions something soft to sit on ... MARSHMALLOWS! 
St.Edwards Hall Players 
will proudly present Its 
TEN LITTLE INDIAN BOYS 

with your support!! Come and buy our brats, bite our burgs, and sip our deliciously hot elder at this Saturday's 
St.Edwards Hall Player's 
Concession Stand I 

The cast will gladly serve you at the foot of the FLAGPOLE before and after our unbeaten IRISH romp over 
those pesty Lions. 

Tell the famll\l"frlends1memles ... 
whoever! The ST.EDS PLAYERS 
greatly appreciate your support! 
Thanks and Enjoy the Show! 
. ST.EDS HALL PLAYERS 

RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE WASHINGTON TRIP. MEETING 
MANDATORY SUN. NOV 20, 7:00PM MONTGOMERY THEATRE LAFORTUNE 
NOTRE DAME ~ 
NOTRE DAME ~ NOTRE DAME ~ NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME 
Tablecloths and Napkins 
Perfect for Tailgate Parties Wallhangings Banners­A great gift idea! 

Relive the memories of your college days with this unique tribute to the Fighting Irish. Napkins feature a colorful repeating pattern of leprechauns. Choose a tablecloth with matching design or with a bold single Notre Dame emblem. 
Fighting Irish Party Pack  1-45" X 45" si.ngle emblem tablecloth and four 21" X 21" overall  
design napkins ...... $23.95  
Fighting Irish Party Pack  2-45" X 45" overall design tablecloth four 21" X 21" overall design  
napkins ...... $23.95  

Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore STORE HOURS SAT. NOV. 19 8:00a.m. to 5:30p.m. 
FIGHTING IRISH~ FIGHTING IRISH~ FIGHTING IRISH~ FIGHTING IRISH 
page 5 
RIGHT TO LIFE DORM REP MEETING 7:00pm LaFortune Theatre SUNDAY NOV. 20 MANDATORY II 

Happy Birthday Tony! Celebrate I Eat a WHOLE ieee of cake today! Love, Kathy & Kris 
GIRLFRIEND (Dude)-This is the last weekend of your teenage years. So be crazy! Then YOU can mash with Lo, and I won't even care! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! I LOVE YOU-BOYFRIEND 
Top 10 Reasons to NOT call Dates A Us (x ) 1 OFiowers? 9Tolerance level? BThe Solid Gold Dan­cer 7They bring their friends along 6Prompt? 5They deliver-WHAT? 4What was that # ? 3They're from 
C.C. and down under 2They wrote back! 1 EBERT! !II 
HAPPY 21ST PAUL Kl 

...... ································· ................... WANTED: DARK HAIRED MALE FROM HOLY CROSS (NOT SEAN RYAN!) ·································································· 
NEED RIDE TO GT 7 OHIO TNPK. CAN LEAVE TUES NOON. 4298 
BECAUSE TONIGHT IS JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER NIGHT, THAT'S WHY YOU SLEEP ALONE TONIGHT 
········································································· 

I spent all my money on plane tlx to the Fiesta Bowl, so now I naed to drive home to NYC' Westchester area for Christmas. Please helplll Will share driving expenses. Call Christine Walsh at 283-2n3 or 239-7471. 
John -"1 am The Observer tart." 
Phone 
continued from page 1 
in South Bend Tuesday night. 

Although Ellis stated that, to his knowledge, the difficulties were limited to "283" phones, some problems were also en­countered with "239" phone ex­tensions late Wednesday night. However, the "239" phones were working correctly Thursday morning. 
Bush 
continued from page 1 

of the press present, and the use of television, lighting, and the band, Conklin said, "You can not create a lecture am­biance." 
However, steps were taken to prevent the lecture from be­coming a Bush rally. 
According to Conklin, an at­tempt was made to "mute the atmosphere." The Notre Dame Marching Band was not per­mitted to perform at the event, although the Bush campaign insisted on having a band pres­ent. Campaign officials proceeded to invite the Ball State University band to ap­pear instead. 
The band was forbidden to play the "Notre Dame Victory March" at the Stepan Center location, though it was played at the airport when Bush ar­rived, and at least one network news crew edited the song into the story. 
The vice president also met with football coach Lou Holtz and the rest of the team during his trip to the university. 
The faculty resolution sug­gested that visiting candidates submit to questions from uni­versity representitives. The issue will be taken up by the Academic Council, which is composed of both faculty mem­bers and students, and will hold its next meeting on Nov. 30. 
''Ifwe do extend these invita­tions in the future, we would want to have far greater con­trol than we exercised this time," said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
We've got to adjust our process to the methodology used by the candidates," O'Meara said. 
Associated Press material contributed to this report. 
~ 
I. 
--~------------~ -­
page 6 
U.S. moves to send at least 15 Cuban boat people back to Cuba 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Justice De­partment panels set up in the wake of last year's prison riots by Mariel boatlift detainees, have reviewed their first 28 cases and plan to send at least 15 of the prisoners back to their native Cuba "in the near fu­ture," officials said Thursday. 
The announcement aroused the anger of many in the Cuban community in Miami, and at­torneys representing the prisoners flew to Alabama seeking to halt the repatriation process. 
The 15 Cuban detainees are being held in a strict "lock­down" in a penitentiary in Tal­ladega, Ala. No detainee will be scheduled for return to Cuba earlier than 72 hours after the government officially notifies each of the 15 detainees, the Justice Department said. 
The 15 whom the department said should be repatriated have convictions ranging from petty larceny to second-degree rnur-
Irish Music and Dinner 
John Kennedy and 


Rosie McCormick 
Tonight at The Blue Danube in Elkhart call 262-8828 for reservations 
der. Most of them have more than one conviction. 
The three-member panels will undertake further consid­eration of the remaining 13 detainees in the initial review group to determine whether they should also be returned to Cuba or be released. 
The panels were set up at the Justice Department in the wake of last year's prison riots by Cuban detainees at Atlanta and Oakdale. La. The rioting oc­curred after a U.S. agreement with Cuban President Fidel Castro to resume sending many of the detainees back to the island. Deportations of Mariel detainees from the United States to Cuba were suspended by Castro in May 1985. 
The detainees are among 125,000 people who carne to the United States in 1980 in a boat­lift from Mariel, Cuba, and the vast majority of them have be­come law-abiding U.S. resi­dents. 


Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988The Observer 
Give me a break 


Danny Lenard and Michael Pawel take a break and papers seem to pile up, more and more students find cue up in the LaFortune pool room Thursday night. themselves in the quest for study break activities. As the semester draws to a close, and exams and 
Opportunities for Programmer Analysts, and Finance Professionals 
JumiJ into an entrv-level career that will take vou IJiaces at EDS. 

In an EDS developmental program, your career potential can reach new heights. You'll gain the rewarding on-the-job experience you need to move your career years ahead -experience you can only gain from the world leader in the computer and communications services industry. 
EDS is looking for achievers-people who make things happen. If you are interested in applying your talents in the information processing services industry, you won't find abetter place to grow than EDS. 
Our highly-respected developmental programs are nationally recognized as models for the industry. They provide technical challenge, professional expertise and the business savvy you'll need to become one of the industry's best­prepared professionals. 
Systems Engineering Development ~ 4-year college degree (any major) with a3.0/4.0 overall GPA preferred ~ Demonstrated technical aptitude ~ For interviews November 7th, sign up at the Business Placement Office ~ For interviews November 8th, sign up at the Engineering Placement 
Office Accounting and Financial Development ~ BS/BA in Accounting and/or Finance with a3.5/4.0 overall GPA preferred ~ For interviews November 7th, sign up at the Business Placement Office All positions also require: excellent communication skills, astrong record of achievement and flexibility to relocate nationwide. 
Attend the EDS Open House Monday or Tuesday, November 21st or 22nd 
11:00 a.m. ·7:00p.m. 
Viscount Hotel 8181 N. Shadeland Avenue (In Castleton, at the corner of 82nd Street 
If you cannot attend our Open House, please send your resume to: 
and Shadeland Avenue) 
EDS Developmental Recruiting 700 Tower Drive, 5th Floor P.O. Box 7019 Dept. 2RZ3238 Troy, Ml48007-7019 

Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 The Observer page 7 
Great American Smokeout has 40 percent success rate 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ~~!.!!~:~f-staff, Atwater to chair RNC 

Associated Press 
Millions of smokers on Thursday swapped their cigarettes for apples and gum, went cold turkey for free turkey sandwiches, and tossed their tobacco into bonfires as part of the 12th annual Great American Smokeout. 
Newborns in several hospi­tals wore "I'm a Born Non­Smoker" T-shirts, city workers in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, sported pins and stickers that said, "Kiss Me, I don't Smoke," and non-smokers joined "adopt-a­smoker" programs to help 
Call 239-5303 for details. 
Bush names 
CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 
IN PREPARATION FOR THE 
MAY, 1989 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE for 
Junior Parents Weekend '89 is forming now! 
-Pick up applications in Student Activities Office (Lafortune) -Due Friday Nov. 18 5:00pm 
Be apart of one of NO's Greatest Events! 
:**********************************
* *
* * 
; Juniors ;
* The Junior Dogbook is now accepting * ! single shot portraits from anyone who did ! ! not get their picture taken at the previously ~ ! scheduled times. In addition, the group ;* snapshots & favorite quotes may also be * ~ submitted. Put your picture or quote in an ; ; envelope along with 50 cents and slide it ; ~ under the door of the class office by ;
* Tuesday, 11!22. This is the chance for you *. * & your friends to remember fun times * ; forever, but remember the dog book cannot ~ ; guarantee that all submitted pictures will be ! ~ used so make sure you come up with an ~ * especially good photo. * 
* * 
* * 
* *
********************************** 
of staff, and tapped wily viser prompted the resigna­campaign st~ategist Lee At-tion, ~ffectiye in J~nuary, of WASHINGTON-waterascharrmanoftheRe-long-hme atde Craig Fuller, President-elect George publican National who said he had told Bush Bush on Thursday named Committee. he was eager for the job. 
New Hampshire Gov. John Bush's selection of Sununu Bush said he would like 
Sununu as White House chief as his top White House ad-Fuller, co-chairman of the transition team and his chief lt-of staff since 1985, to con-HAPPY : sider a role in his adminis­
* tration but that he chose20th * Sununu because he was the 
: "right man for the job."Steve * "John Sununu has the
* background and experienceHeadley * necessary to work not only 
: with his former colleagues Love * in the nation's statehouses
* but also to build a construe-Meg, : tive relationship with the
* U.S. Congress," he said.
Suzanne, 

* 
Sununu, the first Washing-Michelle : ton outsider to be named by

* 
Bush, will bring "a refresh­and * ing new perspective" to the Beth * job, the president-elect said.


* Atwater will succeed l~~~~!!~~~~E~!!~!!!~~~!!~~!.!~~ Frank Fahrenkopf Jr., who 
.; announced months ago that he would relinquish the GOP chairmanship at the end of President Reagan's term 

and return to Nevada to St MarY's studenrning theY
pROBt:EtJ\~ 
# thavef\ight> 
practice law. -dent and~ Chicago· P..,ssu 'ving break, Bush made the announce­
A. Notre Dacrtt~e P..,irport t~ute of'f~an~;: to get {rom. 
ments after meeting over to catch at en)oY everY ~ n should t eY 
breakfast with British 

h want to nortatl0 
Prime Minister Margaret

bot .l { trans.­
h at rnoue 0 o'l\are? . \ P..,irport 
Thatcher and his customary

w B d to R g10na
South en }Aichiana e 
weekly lunch with Reagan.
a) car {light {rom.
rnuter 
b) corn L'rno c)United 1 

QN• soLUl\ 
:\ea<lvm•k< 

-k' g charges
.l nar tn 

. t \\s anu .. t answer· lution,
CitY trafftc, o an incorrec be a good so .l ould 
. by car rn to hBenu c
travehng . "b" rnaY see in Sout 
P..,nd whtle k' d of delaY orse yet, a ' b r that anY tn 0'1\are· Or, w we\\, \et s rem.ern ~ ing flights aBt d could wean· .. an rntss S th en l 
rne · n in ou . h rnare· 1 Not on Y 
cance\\atto ld be a ntg t tulations· rta· 
. t saY it cou d "c , congra de of transpo h JUS lf you answ~ernos~ reliable ;o:est {are and t e . 1n'ted urno t. e offers the. 0 oint {or the 
\S \...: ,_\ 0'1\are, tt also ref arrt\'al p lts in no ti.on to . nt departu l This resu rnost conv~tND }Aai~ Circf~be students' 
dents • t e ....-.izatton o
tu
s d rnaXll.. 
hassles an . _,rnent·
enJo, 

learn this lesson the hard way? Ifyou need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call 674-6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 
United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 

smokers through a smokeless· day. 
The American Cancer Soci­ety estimates nearly 40 percent of the nation's 50 million smokers tried to quit for the day. About one-tenth, or 2 mil­lion people, will kick the habit permanently, said Paul Rosen­berg, a cancer society spokes­man in New York. 
"My grandkids keep telling me it's time to quit smoking," said Pat Zielke, mayor of La Crosse, Wis., and a pack-a-day smoker for 40 years. He quit smoking for the day and was "adopted" by a cancer society volunteer. 
Gov. Sununu his 
Smokers traded their cigarettes for apples in several cities, including New York, Norwalk, Conn., and Philadel­phia. Non-smokers got apples, too, along with a "good for you." 

In Hammond, La., phar­macist Don Fellows Jr. burned four cartons of cigarettes, four boxes of cigars and several boxes of chewing tobacco in a hibachi outside his store. 
The burning tobacco was all he had left after deciding several months ago to stop or­dering the products and to burn what was left. 

Weekend Edition, November18-19, 1988
page 8 The Observer 

One of the greatest musical duos on the college circuit! Their sound ranges from ballads to rhythm and blues. They combine simple humor with tremendous musical talent to produce a show that SHOULD NOT BE MISSED!! 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
2:00 P.M. at Theodore's 
Estonian leaders called to Moscow for talks 
Associated Press areas except defense and Presidium of the U.S.S.R. Su­
foreign affairs. preme Soviet has decided to 
MOSCOW-The Kremlin sum­On their way to Moscow, Es­consider the above-mentioned 
moned Estonian leaders to tonian leaders expressed satis­issue at its next meeting, with 
Moscow on Thursday and ex­faction with a constitutional representatives of the Estonian 
pressed serious doubts about amendment reserving the right republic to be invited," the 
the constitutionality of the tiny to review all new Soviet laws, Tass news agency reported. 
Baltic republic's unprece­and said they were prepared to 
dented challenge to its author­argue the issue with the Krem­The Presidium is the Soviet 
ity. lin. government's highest execu­
In Lithuania meanwhile resi­"Perestroika is a hope and tive authority and Gorbachev 
dents gathered outside their democracy is a hope, and every serves as its chairman. 
parliament building with ban­hope has a moment of unease," Tass said committees of the 
ners and flags, watching on live the newly elected Estonian national Supreme Soviet were 
television as their legislators premier, Indrek Toome, said ordered to prepare an analysis 
convened a session at which during a flight from Tallinn to of the issue, which it said "af­
they will debate a similar chal­Moscow. fects the initial principles of the 
lenge to Moscow's authority. "The dialogue has begun," building and unity of the Soviet 
said Igor Grazin, the Estonian socialist federation.'' 
In Latvia-the third of the res­lawyer who wrote the amend­
tive Baltic republics-residents ment and will defend it before It did not say when the prepared for demonstrations the federal Supreme Soviet's meeting would take place, but and rallies Friday on the 70th Presidium, the highest execu­presumably it would be before anniversary of the birth after tive body in the Soviet Union. the national parliament goes World War I of their short-lived into session again Nov. 29. 
independent nation. The Estonian parliament Residents of the westward­
State Department spokes­made its challenge under the looking Baltic republics have man Charles Redman said in banner of the reform effort been pushing for greater eco­Washington: ''The United President Mikhail Gorbachev nomic and cultural freedom States does not recognize the calls perestroika. The chal­from Moscow under Gorbac­forcible incorporation of the lenge illustrates Gorbachev's hev's reform policy. Baltic states ....The people of continuing serious problems Thousands of people in Lit­the Baltic states have been with rising ethnic feelings that, huania, Estonia and Latvia denied their basic human if successful, could spread to have joined the grassroots rights." other areas. People's Front organization. 
The Estonian Supreme So­Moscow's first reaction Some members say privately 
viet, or parliament, over­Thursday was measured, but their ultimate goal is secession 
whelmingly passed a constitu­deeply skeptical. from the Soviet Union. 
tional amendment Wednesday "Taking into consideration requiring Estonian approval of that the amendment and a any new Soviet law. number of other documents 
The parliament also ap­adopted by the Estonian parli­proved a "declaration of ament are at variance with the sovereignty" asserting Es­provisions of the current Con­tonia's independence in all stitution of the U.S.S.R., the 

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 
If interested, submit a one page personal statement to Chris Murphy at The Observer 
office by 3:00pm, Monday, November 21. 
Presents: 
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Any Type Home-made "You've tried the rest, now try the best" 
GRAND OPENING STARTS WEDNESDAY 
Free Pepsi with purchase (except with delivery) 
289-4625 $1.00 off any size pizza 921 N. Eddy, Free Prizes South Bend 
"0 caJs 
9LJitar 
tnandoJ·

h 1n 
artnon·
lea 


APGraphlc 

The three Baltic states,  
roughly the size of  
Washington state, were  SOVIET  
provinces of imperial  UNION  
Russia before World  
.... ~;  

War I and independent nations between World Wars I and II. They were conquered by the Soviet Union in 1940, a takeover the U.S. has never formally recognized. 
FINLAND  
million population are  
ethnic Estonians. who  
speak a language  
related to Finnish.  
Russians comprise 28  
percent of the  
population. Industries  
include textiles.  
shipbuilding, timber,  
roadmaking, mining  
equipment and shale  
oil refining.  
population is slightly  
more than half ethnic  
Latvians and a third  
Russian. Industries  SOVIET  
include timber, peat, rubber, dyes, fertilizers,  UNION  
glassware, TV, radio,  
telephone apparatus  
and railroad cars.  Minsk •  

The largest of the Baltic republics has a population of 3.7 million, 80 percent Lithuanian and 9 percent Russian. They produce cattle, hogs, electric motors, and appliances. 
POLAND 



.CO._ ·-u 

Viewpoint
Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 page 9 
Life of Katharine Drexel: a heroine of God 
This is a great year at Notre Dame for many reasons. The whole country is watching eagerly to see who emerges as national champion on Jan. 2. People who are wise in the ways of sport are complimenting the University on its choice of Lou Holtz as the coach of the Irish. We are proud of Lou and every member of his staff and team. 
Alice McCabe 
guest column 

I would like to bring to your attention another wise choice on the part of Notre Dame. They have chosen this year as the Year of Cultural Diversity. Now, Notre Dame didn't have to choose this particular year for this focus; but somehow or other, they picked a special year to do this. On Nov. 20, 1988, Kat­harine Drexel, a pioneer in recognizing the giftedness of cultural diversity, is being beatified in St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican. 
In our society a person is often recog­nized as a "star" after an outstanding performance, and is often acclaimed immediately as a hero or heroine. The 
Thoughts have value not their expression 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Miss 
Susan Barton's letter of Nov. 10 dealing 
with the English language and the state 
of the nation. Firstly, there is someth­
ing to be said for being able to com­
municate one's beliefs. Theologians, 
artists, composers, and writers 
throughout history have sought to do 
this. This, however, does not preclude 
the fact that beliefs are most impor­
tant. Secondly, being able to write or 
speak does not always ensure clear 
thinking. 
I would venture to say that what a 
person thinks or believes is far more 
important than what one can write. 
There is a physicist, Stephen Hawking 
of Cambridge, who cannot speak nor 
does he possess any motor capability; 
yet, with assistants, he has written 
prominent books and is on the verge of 
discovering a Grand Unificiation the­
ory of atomic and astrophysics. 
I believe having an awareness of po-
Doonesbury 
Church, on the other hand, moves very slowly before conferring an honorary title on any of her members. The honorary titles are venerable, blessed, and saint in that order. According to the "Ceremonies of Beatification," translated by A.C. Iggleden: "The Church acts with the greatest caution; the merits of her heroes are scrutinized, their actions submitted to a severe examination, and often a cen­tury passes in detailed research before She will make a definite pronounce­ment." 
God is also asked to show His ap­proval by working miracles through the intercession of the person whose life is being studied. In the case of "cures," they must pass the judgment of the medical profession. If the "cure" could have come about by natural means, there is no miracle. 
What did Katharine Drexel do which made her so distinguished? Wealthy, educated, a Philadelphia socialite of the late 19th century, Katharine Drexel could make of life what she chose. That choice in the end came out of the strong Catholic faith and deep compassion for the poor which Katharine learned from her parents. While still a young woman, Katharine became aware of the desper­ate plight of the American Indians for whom she built fourteen boarding schools in eight different states. She was affronted, too, by the living condi­tions of Black Americans. 
As Katharine matured and her spir­itual life deepened, she was no longer satisfied to share only her wealth with the poor. She chose to give her whole life's energy to bring the liberating news of Christ to the Black and Indian races. On Feb. 12, 1891, she became a vowed religious and founded the Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament, who imme­diately began to serve and work with the Black and Indian people. Convinced that we are all brothers and sisters of one Father, Katharine led the young congregation to establish schools and catechetical and social centers on reservations in the rural South and in large urban areas. 
Her personal life, her writings, her actions, etc., have all passed favorably the scrutiny needed in the process of beatification. The necessary miracles have been declared authentic and she is now honored with the title of blessed. 
At the time of her death in March 1955, a Philadelphia newspaper wrote: 
P.O. Box Q 
litical nuances outweighs being able to express them. Poland's Lech Walesa (a representative worker) never struck me as a Nobel Laureate, but he rose to champion the cause of Solidarity (without a speechwriter). I doubt he possesses the equivalent of a college education, yet his beliefs made him a leader. 
I find it ironic to see criticism of a national education deficiency without mention of the present presidential ad­ministration's slash in education ex­penditures. If education is truly inte­gral to democracy, should it not stand high in governmental priority (i.e. spending)? George Bush reads wonder­ful speeches colored with rosy images of the supposed "universal" American way, while social classes polarize in­creasingly. I am led to believe that Bush won on his use of metaphors ("1000 points of light"); it would seem to be so. Orwell calls it "doublespeak." 
Individuals such as myself continu­ally attempt to encourage a greater po­litical awareness. I hope I am not also discounted in my thinking because of simple spelling errors. Maybe we should strive to perceive what we hear instead of proofreading syntax. Let's forget our own little language long enough to find out what other languages may be saying or thil)king or believing. 
James L. Thomassen Off-campus Nov. 13, 1988 
A time to salute the Irish Marching Band 
Dear Editor: 

Since moving· to the Notre Dame campus this past August, I have often been aware of the presence of the Notre Dame Marching Band. Sometimes this awareness has come from the sound of a drum cadence as the students were either going to or returning from a rehearsal, or a Saturday morning drill on the field before a game, a perfor­mance on the steps of the Administra­tion Building, or a thrilling step-off from Washington Hall with the music of the "Victory March" resounding in the air as the Fighting Irish Band made its way to the stadium for the pre-game, half-time and post-game shows. Whatever the occasion, be it informal 
Garry Trudeau 
f)()J? TH&.Y 513/3., THAT'S IAJ&R& TH/3 GReAT.' THAT BbST N!N/3 5AY5 IT'S 
Y&41<5 OF NOTA HI6H­
MYt-ff=el P!<&55URe[)
I PI.AC£! 
I 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ....................... Chris Murphy Managing Editor ..... ...................Chris Donnelly News Editor ... ............................... Regis Coccia 
News Editor...  .. ................... Mark Mclaughlin  
Viewpoint Editor...  .. .................... Matt Slaughter  
Sports Editor  ......................... Marty Strasen  

Accent Editor................. .. Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor........... .. ........ Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor.... .. ................... Michael Moran 

-------~~·~'---­
-Ih-e-Obse---~~r-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reftect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
"One of the most remarkable women in the history of America was called home to God yesterday....She belongs so truly to all America, but especially to the poor and forgotten of the land....She was indeed a heroine of God." 
I am a Sister of the Blessed Sacra­ment, attending the Sabbatical Pro­gram for Church Leaders. Since I was in elementary school I have been a Notre Dame fan. I have grown in my love and esteem for all that is Notre Dame. Some of our Sisters are going to Rome because they knew or worked with Katharine DrexeL Five names were drawn at random. Mine was one of the lucky names. 
One of the hardest prices I had to pay to go to Rome was to part with my Penn State ticket. I'll be praying that the Irish use every bit of their talent in their remaining games. I'll also pray that we will be number one in our efforts to promote the success of this Year of Cul­tural Diversity so that we all may be one in Christ. 
Sr. Alice V. McCabe, S.B.S., is in the Program of Church Leaders at Notre Dame. 
or strictly formal, the presence of the Band has always brought a quickening of the pulse and a lifting of the heart that is difficult, if not impossible, to put into words. 
I thought it was time to give some special recognition to the Notre Dame Marching Band, which contributes so very much to the life and spirit of the campus and which makes such a posi­tive impact on the football season here. While the dedication and spirit of cooperation which every member of the ensemble brings to the Band is cer­tainly rewarded in excellent training for life, fun and friendships, yet the in­vestment of time, talent and energy on the part of all is something that deserves profound respect. 
Saturday, the final home football game, is surely an appropriate time to say a sincere "Thank you" to the Notre Dame Marching Band, its directors and their assistants, every single Band member, the Irish Guard and its excel­lent and spirited Drum Major, Mark Taylor, for another outstanding season. Sister Gloria Gallagher, O.S.F. Programs for Church Leaders Nov. 14, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"The first time I went to play at Notre Dame Stadium, everyone told me about the mystique. To tell you the truth ... I don't think there's any unusual mystique about Notre Dame any longer." 
Joe Paterno Penn State Head Coach 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ............................ John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager. .. ......... Bernadette Shi~s Systems Manager .......................... Mark Ridgeway Controller......................... .. .... Todd Hardiman Graphic Ms Manager ....................... Marga Bruns 
Founded November 3,1966 

-a 


JOHN BLASI MATT GALLAGHER CHRIS DONNELLY accent writers 


hannel 
This" or "Die Yuppie Scum," the Second City Etc.'s latest 

revue lives up to the 
theater's best. 
Second City Etc. is the "second string" of the more well-known mainstage Second City troupe. It is here in Piper's Alley (located di­rectly next to the mainstage entrance) that many promis­ing, young actors are given their first break into stand-up comedy. Second City Etc. provides an arena for the troupe to try out new materi­al. As a result, the ticket prices are a bit less than the mainstage admission price. 
The opening scene of the revue pits a haggard mother against her restless sons in a saber duel. The sons are not content with the mother's traditional nonviolent bedtime story and insist on adding vi­olent asides to it that would not even appear in R-rated movies. Finally, mom shocks her two sons with a little morbid tale of her own. The tale causes a sword fight be­tween the two sons. As mom jumps into the battle and defeats one of her sons, the other, played by Chris Barnes, yells "Prepare to die Ninja Mamma!" Chris Barnes, Jane Morris and Jeff 
Calvin and Hobbes 
I'M SIJR£. IT'S FR\lSi~nt-IG­
R£N.l'{, IF ~OIJ'RE />. GIRl, 1\IE lWJIJGI-IT OF 
Hf:.-.' 

Kt4J'tiiNG \W,\ t-\£N Po.RE 
'f.t\.11\T WOULD MP.,KE 'iOIJ A. .JERI< LIKE 'ltl\J 
NO\ /Iff.' 

BIGG~. SIRONGER A.t~D 
GO ON li~ING-? BE@;\NG ONE OF 
BENR P-.1 
\ 

Michalski all play this scene excellently. 
Another amusing scene in the review involves a family's confrontation with their dead­head son. The son comes home stoned and his parents try to teach him a lesson by creating a hallucination of their own for him. When their lesson is over the father, played by Kevin Michael Doyle, remarks "Seven generations of alcoholics in our family and we end up with the first drug addict." 
The first act ends with a twisted back-alley rendition of "Born to Run." A bum, played by Chris Barnes, dreams of his moment in the spotlight. An assortment of characters join in, only to have the concert ended by the city police. 
The second act was high­lighted by a visit to the Chan­neling Institute. Players stepped off the stage and ven­tured into the realm of the dead: the Astral Plane. Audi­ence members were asked to play the roles of the client's ancestors. The scene demon­strated the sharp improvisa­tional talent of both the audi­ence and the cast. 
Following the scheduled performance, the actors took suggestions from the audi-
Bill Watterson 
-
(­
_I 

ence for improvisational scenes. Following a brief in­termission, the actors returned to the stage and per­formed scenes they devised around those suggestions. 
The quality of the improvs depends greatly upon the creativity of the audience members. However, the cast does a good job even when given mediocre ideas. It is apparent, unfortunately, that the cast members have several "stock" pieces, into which they simply plug in the suggestions. 
"I laughed, I cried, it was a gem," remarked noted Chicago actor Paul Grondy after the performance. He was right, it was indeed a gem. Although not mainstage, Second City Etc. more than lives up to the reputation of its predecessor. 
Second City Etc. plays Wed­nesday, Thursday, and Sun­day at 9 p.m. and Friday and Saturday at 8:30p.m. and 11 
p.m. Tickets cost $8.50-$9.50. Food and beverages are served at slightly inflated prices. For reservations call Second City Etc. at (312) 642­8189 . 
ROBYN SIMMONS JOHN BLASI accent writers 
I 
f you ask any Chicagoan where to 
go for deep dish 
pizza, they usually 
divide into three camps. They'll tell you that there are Lou Malnati's people, Pizzeria Uno's and Due's people, and Gino's East people. Although each restau­rant offers pizza with a thick crust, fresh tomato sauce on top of a generous helping of cheese and other toppings, the variations in recipes are enough to keep pizza aficionados divided. 
Lou Malnati's offers the unique combination of an Ital­ian restaurant and a sports bar. Located at 439 N. Wells, Lou Malnati's is one of the few places where one can en­joy authentic Italian meals and still cheer on the Cubs and Bears--depending on the season. All of the waitresses wear team jerseys, and serve meals in an atmosphere com­plete with pennants, team photos, and a TV set to watch the big games. 
Gino's East 
ADDRESS: 106 East Superior 
RESERVATIONS: 
Recommended 
on weekends 
PHONE: (312) 943-1124 
RECOMMENDATIONS: 
Large cheese or sausage pizza with extra cheese. Cheese sticks for an appetizer. 
~-·~~~----------~---------~----~----------..~.-~-~--.. ---~ -----~-~~.-----~-~~­

at 


Time 12:18 p.m. EST 
CBS National Television (Tim Brant, John Dockery, Lesley Visser) 
TV & 

Mutual Radio Network Radio (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) WVFI-AM 640 
Tickets Game is sold out (capacity 59,075) 
Notre Dame 1 st AP Rankings Penn State unranked 
Penn State leads, 6-5-1 First game in 1913
Series 

November 21, 1987 Last Game Penn State 21, Notre Dame 20 
Pride at stake for Irish players from Lion country 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Ismail, from Wilkes-Barre, "They were saying even their best to tell potential pared himself as a coach to Co­Assistant Sports Editor Pa., also knows about the in­though they (Penn State) lost recruits about their recent suc­ach Holtz, saying he's a better tensity of the Notre Dame­
cess against the Irish. coach because he's won na­Ned Bolcar has had his share Penn State rivalry in the "I'd given my verbal com­tional championships and Co­of uncomfortable summers Pennsylvania-New Jersey mitment in August, and they ach Holtz hasn't," said Wat­back at his hometown of Phil­area. (Penn State) kept recruiting ters. "But the way Coach Holtz lipsburg, N.J. "They (Notre Dame fans) me till signing day,'' said fresh­is running the team, we're 
Since the senior linebacker get tortured," said the former man linebacker Troy Ridgley going to do it sometime in the came to Notre Dame in 1985, Meyers High School football from Ambridge (Pa.) High near future. Coach Holtz is a the Irish have lost three con­and track phenom. "They're School. "They'd tell me how winner. I can't see how anyone secutive times to Penn State. the brunt of a lot of jokes. their school is better than Notre can be a better coach than Co­But if playing for the Irish Anything you think of that Dame. They always look down ach Holtz." while living in the shadow of would put somebody down, at Notre Dame because they've Notre Dame has won many Mt. Nittany is bad enough, Bol­they get it. beaten us the last three years. of the recruiting matchups with car can think of some people "I know a lot of money will Penn State, having lured ath­who have suffered even more. be won or lost where I live this "I know they're a good foot­letes like Bolcar, Ismail, Wat­
"It's worse for the Notre weekend." ball team, but they didn't have ters and Ridgley to South Bend. 
Ned Bolcar

Dame fans over there; I can In a relatively short time, the what Notre Dame has to offer," But the Irish also are aware always come back here and get Notre Dame-Penn State con­to Pittsburgh, we had to look Ridgley continued. "That's they need to win more battles away from it," said the former test has become one of the big­out for them." why I'm here, and a lot of other on the field if they are to keep All-American at Phillipsburg gest intersectional rivalries in Notre Dame and Penn State people are here--because Notre winning the recruiting wars 
·High School. "They tell me, the country. But nowhere is the began playing each other on a Dame has more to offer than with the Lions. 'Ned, you've been there three annual skirmish more awaited regular basis in 1981. Since that anyplace else in the nation." "They're similar schools years, and you haven't beaten than in that Pennsylvania-New time, the Lions have won six of with good athletics, good them yet. It's about time we Jersey area. the seven games and the last Watters also says he heard academics and traditions of get bragging rights for 12 "I just came from back three in a row. the comparisons between being that way," said Bolcar. months.' I told them, 'I'll see home, and everyone was The Pennsylvania-New Jer­Notre Dame and Penn State, "In recruiting, for some what I can do.' " talking about the game," said sey area is a major recruiting but on a much more personal players it comes down to whose 
Freshman split end and kick­Irish tailback and Harrisburg, base for both schools, and Penn level. program is going in the right off returner Raghib "Rocket" Pa., resident Ricky Watters. State recruiters have done "Coach Paterno really com-direction." 
From playground to Paterno 
Schonewolf makes impact on Penn State defense 
By JIM DEEGAN So within a few years of tos­get to play I would've had to The Collegian sing a N erf between lines of play with kids older than me, parked cars, Schonewolf was and I really didn't want to do 
Growing up in Northeast talking football and the future that," he explained of his late Philadelphia, Rich Schonewolf with a living legend. Not bad start on the gridiron. had heard about Penn State. for an oversized kid who just So naturally, when Heard about it a lot. wanted to fire fastballs and hit Schonewolf finished eighth
In fact, Nittany was such a home runs. grade and began roaming the household word in Philly by "He always wanted to play halls of Archbishop Ryan High 1985 that Schonewolf refused to baseball,'' explains his mother, School, he stuck out like a rump believe the Lions were even in­Caroline. "He loved it. He was roast on a party platter. terested in recruiting him. a pitcher and third baseman. "My freshman year, I didn't 
And who could blame him? When he was growing up, all play because my first year 
Less than three years after he wanted to do was play going into high school, it was the boy first strapped on a set baseball. He never played foot­kind of a different situation," of shoulder pads and jammed ball when he was little." he said. "I never went out for a mouthpiece between his This is where we set the the team. teeth, Penn State coach Joe record straight: it's where this "A couple of people talked to Paterno was standing in his seemingly unexplainable me. The coach talked to me and living room humbly asking for transformation all begins to said I had good size, and he a second chance. make sense. You see, as much wondered if I would like to try 
"I really wasn't too sure that as his mother would probably out. So I thought I'd give it a they were sincere in their hate to admit it, Rich shot. recruiting of me," recounts Schonewolf was never little. "That's really how I got Schonewolf, a two-time letter­Six-foot-two, 230-pound started." man at Penn State and a start­teenagers don't sprout over­It wasn't long before ing defensive tackle this night. It takes distinctive ge­Schonewolf was throwing down season. netics and years of serious quarterbacks with as much ar­

"I didn't play any organized eating to mold yourself into dor as he threw down dessert. football as far as the pads and such substantial proportions. The strapping teen played de­
1 ne UDServer1 File Photo 

all until lOth grade," he said. "I was interested in playing, fensive tackle and offensive
Defensive tackle Rich Schonewolf had some doubts about his 
"I played football in the street, but around Philadelphia all the guard, earning secqnd-team
ability to make an Impact at Penn State, but the senior has 
like two-hand touch, and tackle football was done by the weight 
emerged as one of the Lions' most reliable defenders. see TACKLE, page 3
in the park." classes. I was a big kid, and to 

-~----·-----·-·----­
------~-----------~----~-------------------­
page 2 Irish Extra: The Game Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 
By THERESA KELLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In 1887, the official colors of 
the Penn State football team 
were pink and black, but the 
team switched to its second 
choices, blue and white, when 
the pink faded after exposure 
to sunlight. 
In 1988, the Penn State team, 
used to being counted among 
college football's elite, has 
faded as well. 
The Nittany Lions, who visit Notre Dame Stadium Saturday to battle the top-ranked and un­defeated Irish, will be on a mission--a loss to the Irish will drop Penn State to 5-6 on the season, ending the current string of 49 non-losing seasons, an NCAA record. 
In 1938, Penn State was 3-4-1. Since then it has posted a win­ning record every year, except for two 5-5 seasons--in 1965 and again in 1966--Head Coach Joe Paterno's first year at the helm. Since then, Paterno's Nittany Lions have recorded a 202-43-2 mark, winning more than 80 percent of their games. 
No, Penn State is not accus­tomed to losing football games. 
The situation brings back memories of two years ago, when the roles were reversed. The Irish were battling mediocrity while the Nittany Lions were unbeaten, untied and on their way to a national championship at the Fiesta Bowl after beating the Irish 24­19. 
The situation is reversed now, but Penn State has beaten the Irish three straight times and Irish head coach Lou Holtz isn't taking Paterno's squad for granted, even with the 5-5 record. 
"This is an awful good foot­ball team," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "In the five games that Penn State has lost, four of those teams combined have five losses. I think they have played awfully tough. We have nothing but respect for the Penn State football team." 
Despite the off week behind them and a game at second­ranked USC next week, the Irish players are not looking past the Nittany Lions. 
"There's no way I'm going to spend four years at Notre Dame and not beat Penn State once," Irish tri-captain Ned Bolcar said. "We've worked to hard to look past a game and sacrifice the whole season be­cause of it." 
Penn State offense 
vs. 
Notre Dame defense 

Penn State will send a balanced attack against the 
Irish defense Saturday, as the Penn State defense Nittany Lions average 171 vs. yards rushing and 168 yards Notre Dame offense passing per game. Injuries The off-week has still not have forced Paterno to play be~n enough time to alleviate musical quarterbacks this the injury problems of the season. Saturday's probable Irish. Holtz listed fullback An­starter, senior Lance Loner­thony Johnson as doubtful for gan, has completed 24-of-47 Saturday's game because of an 
passes (.511), thrown for two injured ankle, and two other 
touchdowns and has three in­fullbacks, Braxston Banks and terceptions. Rodney Culver, have knee and Tom Bill led off the season shoulder injuries, respectively, 
as the starting signalcaller, but but are expected to play. is out with an injured knee. Guard Tim Grunhard's ankle 
Freshman Tony Sacca stepped has not responded to treat­in for Bill because Lonergan ment, and freshman tight end had a sprained thumb. Loner­Derek Brown has spent time in 
gan took over for Sacca to put the hospital with a viral infec­some life into the Penn State tion. offense during the Maryland "Grunhard just isn't full game, but Sacca is there to speed," Holtz said. "I don't back him up if he falters know how productive he can be. against the Irish. (Brown) has been in the hospi­
Whoever starts as Nittany tal, and if he can play, it will Lion quarterback has able be without the benefit of much receivers in Michael Timpson practice, plus he would be weak and David Daniels, who have because he hasn't been able to combined for 34 catches for 598 eat." yards and three touchdowns. Tailbacks Tony Brooks and Tight end David Jakob has Mark Green lead what's left of caught 19 passes, good for 266 the Notre Dame runners. yards and two touchdowns. Brooks has 613 net yards on 101 
Sophomore tailback Gary carries, with two touchdowns. Brown, with 666 yards on the Tri-capitan Mark Green has season and 5.3 yards per carry, 542 yards on 104 carries and is the leading ground-gainer for four touchdowns. Fullback An­Penn State, although he shares thony Johnson has been suc­the tailback spot with Leroy cessful in short-yardage situa­
~.,

Thompson (354 yards, 3 touch­tions, and Ricky Watters is 
b downs, 3.7 per carry) and Sean playing at both flanker and tail­Redman (238 yards, 5.8 per back. carry). Quarterback Tony Rice adds 
John Greene leads the way to the threat on the ground. for the Nittany Lions at ful­Rice averages 5.7 yards per lback with 342 yards on the carry and has scored seven season. Penn State's quarter­Notre Dame touchdowns. In backs are not rushing threats the air, Rice is 55-for-111 on the with Lonergan, Sacca and Bill year (.495) for 894 yards, seven all at negative yardage. touchdowns and five intercep­

"Last year they rushed for tions. Despite improved pass­over 300 yards against us," ing statistics from early in the Holtz said. "John Greene season, Holtz said the passing averaged about six yards a game needs to improve. carry against us last year. We "Penn State is good on pass know what he can do. The of­defense," Holtz said. "We need fensive line is typical: it's big, to improve, but it gets so dark it's strong, they control up so early, we don't have time to The Observer 1 File Photo front. They did that against us work on it. It has improved, but Senior linebacker Quintus McDonald has 39 tackles on the last year and we cannot allow it's not in a state I'd like to see 
season for the Nlttany Lions.
that to happen this year." it. We can't go into a game like 
The Penn State offense is this without a passing game." game and given up an average tempts and 9-of-11 in field averaging 22.8 points per The Penn State pass defense of 18 points per game goals. game. Notre Dame's defense was ranked first in the nation (including 51 against West Vir­Holtz used the off-week to has given up 13.6 points per prior to last Saturday's loss to ginia). give the players a three-daygame, allowing 31 over the last Pitt, in which it intercepted "Defensively, it's a typical break from football. 
three contests. The Irish and three passes in addition to Penn State team," Holtz said. Penn State have had one com­giving up only eight comple­"They've got two excellent "I think our players are back mon opponent: The Irish beat tions and 114 yards. Penn linebackers. Collins is very, with a fresher outlook," Holtz 
Pitt 30-20 on Oct. 8, while the State's strong linebacking very good, and Karpinski looks said. "I think they found that Panthers defeated the Nittany corps includes leading tackler like he could play in the pros. there is life after football, but Lions last week 14-7. Andre Collins, with 97 total You know that even if you beat it isn't as good as life with foot­Linebackers Mike tackles, four for losses. them, it's going to be a low­ball. 
Stonebreaker and Wes Herobacks Brian Chizmar and scoring game." 
"We will be ready for Penn 
Pritchett lead the Irish defense Keith Karpinski have com­The Notre Dame scoring State," Holtz said. "We maywith 95 total tackles each, while bined for 91 tackles and three leader, placekicker Reggie Ho, not be healthy, but our playersthe defense as a whole has held interceptions. will return to the starting posi­are excited. We have to be a opponents to 111 yards rushing The Nittany Lion defense has tion for the Irish Saturday. Ho total team and I think we'll 
and 106 passing. held opponents to 318 yards per is 26-of-29 in extra point at-play well." 

NITIANY L'ONS TO WATCH 




Andre Collins (ILB) Keith Karpinski (OLB) Michael Timpson (WR) Steve Wisniewski (OG) 
Penn State's leading tackler The senior was hampered by The senior speedster is the The first-team All-America se­switched from safety to inside an ankle injury in 1987, but was team's top receiver and holds a lection in 1987 has outstanding linebacker this year and the in the lineup long enough to number of school track records. speed for a 6-4, 260-pound junior has been one of the force Tony Rice into the arms The Miami native runs the 60-lineman. The senior logged steadiest performers on Penn of Pete Curkendall on the last yard dash in 6.31 seconds and more time than any other Lion State's defense. play of last year's Lion win. the 400 in 46.8. in 1987 (789 plays). 
--------------~-~------------­
-~----~---"""""------....--.--~-------------------------..... 
Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 Irish Extra page 3 

Tackle 
continued from page 1 
all-state honors at both posi­tions. He emerged as Ryan's defensive captain and was named the unit's Most Valu­able Player his senior season. 
By that time, Schonewolf's size wasn't the only thing turn­ing people's heads. Without a doubt, this kid could play. 
"In high school, I was a lot bigger than most of the kids," he said. "And I was a pretty good athlete, I'd say. I could get by with my athletic ability and size. 
"Up here, you know, that helps me, but in no sense can I get by with that. There were a lot of techniques that took me a year or two to really get com­fortable with, and that's where I'm at now." 
Nick Gasparato, Penn State's offensive line coach, 
Penn State Offense 
FLANKER 
5 Michael Timpson 8 Terry Smith 
TIGHT END 86 Dave Jakob 82 John Wolfe 
TACKLE 

1 Todd Lyght 33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 
~ 36 Donn Grimm 
FREE SAFETY 15 Pat Terrell ~ 31 Corny Southall f4IIP 

Beaver Stadium. Thomas ran for 214 yards as the Nittany Lions earned a 21-20 victory. 
was the first of the Lion brass to visit the Schonewolf house­hold. 
But Schonewolf was far from sold. The high school senior wanted more time to look into other schools that offered him scholarships, like Duke, Rut­gers and Wake Forest. 
Schonewolf was convinced Penn State had a hidden agenda. Otherwise, why weren't more of the renowned Eastern schools inquiring about him? 
"A lot of other schools like Boston College, West Virginia, they didn't even recruit me," he rationalized. "I thought if West Virginia and Boston Col­lege aren't recruiting me and Penn State is, I thought maybe they just had token interest be­cause I was from Philadelphia or something like that." 
So Schonewolf traveled the recruit circuit and finally reached a decision--Duke. 
That alarmed Paterno to the 
SPLITEND 13 Pat Eilers QUARTERBACKQUARTERBACK 26 David Daniels 21 Aaron Robb ft 9 Tony Rice 25 Raghib Ismail15 Lance Lonergan 80 Steve Alaniz13 Odell Wilson 

TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 17 Kent GrahamfJi\ 86 Derek Brown 66 Andy Heck TACKLE 
~ 
19 Tony Sacca 
71 Tim Freeman TACKLE 
p·pp p p pil~~=: 
f'" 86F•ook~ ~ks~" ""l)~:k~ 
CENTERCENTER GUARD 55 Mike Heldt GUARD 

GUARD 78 Roger Du:k GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 75 Tim Grunhard 77 Bob Vernaglia 53 Ro Luede e 66 Steve Wisniewski 53 Winston Sandri 61 Tom Gorman 
60 Ed Monaghan 57 Sean Love 
Penn State Defense NosE TACKLE 
NOSE TACKLE 
TACKLE 79 D~ve Szott TACKLE 5o Chris Zorich Irish Defense 
75 Rich Schonewolf 88 Enc Renkey 89 Bob Mrosko TACKLE 92 Bryan Flannery TACKLE 
70 Darryl Bullock 85 Frank Giannetti 90 Jeff Aim 69 George Williams OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
b b b 
P 
TAILBACK 27 Gary Brown 44 Leroy Thompson 
P 
FULLBACK 11 Sam Gash 20 John Greene 
point where he made the trek to Philadelphia to talk to the senior one-on-one. 
"Coach Paterno said, 'You want to just give me another chance,' "Schonewolf said. "I said OK, just give me another couple of days to try to figure out what I want to do, and I thought about it." 
"I guess they convinced me that I could play here," he said. "I thought to myself if I could play at Penn State, that would be something that I really think I'd like to do." 
Four years, a few more pounds and one national cham­pionship ring later, Schonewolf is lining up as a defensive starter. 
He has remained a depend­able fixture on a defense that, up until the West Virginia game, was one of the highest­ranked in the country against the rush. But 51 points and 563 yards toppled that distinction. 
"West Virginia's a great foot-
DEFENSIVE END 62 Ted FitzGerald 74 Mirko Jurkovic DEFENSIVE END 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 

Lions freeze NO's 
title hopes in 1987 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
What do Texas A&M, Mic­higan, Florida State, Great Lakes, Georgia, Chicago and Penn State all have in com­mon? 
They're the only football teams who boast winning records against the Irish. 
But Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions have been especially un­kind to coach Lou Holtz in his first two years at Notre Dame. In the waning moments of the 1986 match-up, the Penn State defense deployed a ferocious goal-line stand that preserved a 24-19 victory over the Irish in Notre Dame Stadium. Last season's contest produced a repeat performance, as the Nit­tany Lions stuffed an Irish two­point conversion attempt with only 31 seconds remaining to win 21-20. 
The 1987 loss not only dropped the seventh-ranked Irish to 8-2 and out of national title contention, but it also trig­gered a three-game skid that ended with a 35-10 Cotton Bowl defeat against Texas A&M. 
The Irish entered a frigid Beaver Stadium, where snow 
ball team," said Schonewolf, "but there's no way they should have done to us what they did, piling up the yardage like that." 
Touch football in the streets of Northeast Philly and pickup games in the park seem so long ago. Now, for the first time in his collegiate career, the Nit­tany Lions are struggling. 
"It's always been a goal of mine to start, and you think of the tradition Penn State has," he says. "That's one of the big­gest reasons why I came here­-because there's always a good team. 
"Now, to finally get a chance to start and have the team slip up a little bit, it's kind of dis­appointing," he continued. "But at the same time, I don't think we're a bad team. I think something's missing, but I haven't figured out what it is. We're going to pull everything together." 
This is the year of the Lions' 
TAILBACK 24 Mark Green 40 Tony Brooks 
Irish Offense FULLBACK 
22 Anthony Johnson 39 Braxston Banks FLANKER 
30 Neil Hamilton ~30 Frank Slams ~ ~ 97 A ld AI 93 Geoff Japchen ~37 Scott Kowalkowski ~ qJff!f ~ ~ ~ 7 A~~~e Jo~es 

CORNERBACK ~ ~ ~ CORNERBACK INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~ INSIDE UNEBACKER 

29 Stan Smagala 42 Mike Stonebreaker 32 D"Juan Francisco 
47 Ned Bolcar ~ CORNERBACKSTRONG SAFETY 

~ 
25 Willie Thomas~ 27 George Streeter 9 Darren Perry FREE SAFETY'-26 Greg Davis 39 Eddie Johnson 48 Chris Cisar 

squalls and swirling winds dipped the thermometer to mi­nus 20. Yet, Penn State tailback Blair Thomas came out on fire, amassing 214 yards on 35 carries. Holtz was impressed, but he gave credit to the Lions' offensive line, which controlled the line of scrimmage for most of the contest. 
The game opened on an awkward note. Facing a third down and 22, Paterno elected to quick kick. The strategy proved worthwhile as Notre Dame free safety Brandy Wells fumbled away the punt on the Irish 19, setting up Penn State's first TD. 
Two plays later, Lions' ful­lback John Greene plunged in from the 10 to make the score 7-0. 
Notre Dame evened the score on its next possession when Tony Rice ran into the end zone on a 32-yard quarterback draw. The drive featured a 29-yard screen play to Tim Brown. It was one of the few big plays for the senior flanker, whose 112 all-purpose yards fell way below his average Reisman pace. 
see FREEZE, page 4 

discontent. After decades of prosperity, Penn State could suffer a rare losing season if it loses Saturday. Schonewolf maintains a year of eligibility next fall and has hinted that he'd like to return to the field for another year. 
"I'll need that extra semes­ter to graduate, so I'll definitely have to come back for school," the marketing major said. "My thinking is we have a tremendous amount of ability on this football team. I think we're going to have a few great seasons down the road, and I would just love to be a part of that next year. 
"I think we'll have a good team, and I'd love to be a part of it. If Joe wants me to come back, I'd be more than willing to. I guess it's really what he decides." 
A few years back, Schonewolf gave Paterno a second chance. Seems like Joe owes him one. 
SPLITEND 
-
.. 
92 Quintus McDonald A42 Keith Goganious 

A 
INSIDE UNEBACKER 
31 Andre Collins 38 Mark D"Onofrio 
A 
.... 

~ CORNERBACK 
HERO 36 Sherrod Rainge 84 Keith Karpinski 6 Leonard Humphries 28 Brian Chizmar 
Observer Graphic I Annette Rowland 

CCCL# 
Irish Extra 
Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988
page4 

-
Freeze 
continued from page 3 

The Lions took a 14-7 lead in the second quarter on a 33-yard drive that was set up when Notre Dame was penalized for roughing punt returner Jim Coates. Nine plays later, Thomas scored his only touch­down on a 1-yard run over the right side. 
The Irish blew an excellent opportunity to tie the game when reserve quarterback Kent Graham was intercepted in the endzone on second-and­goal from the three. Holtz 

IRISH SlATS 

TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP TOTAL OFFENSE 3513 2548 YARDS 
Total Plays 631 584 Yards per Play 5.57 4.36 Yards per Game 390.3 283.1 PENALTIES-YARDS 49-475 56·455 FUMBLES-LOST 15·11 17·13 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 189 149 By Rushing 126 58 By Passing 52 79 By Penalty 11 12 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 119·60 126·40 Percentage 50.4 31.7 POSSESSION TIME 283:10 256:50 Minutes per Game 31 :28 28:32 
SCORING G TO PA R·PA S FG TP Ho 9 o 26·29 0·0 0 9-11 53 Rice 9 7 0·0 1-1 o 0·0 44 Johnson 8 5 0·0 1-1 0 0·0 32 Green 9 4 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 24 Watters 9 4 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 24 Brooks 9 4 0·0 0·1 0 0·0 24 Brown 9 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 Culver 5 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 Ismail 9 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 Hackett 9 0 5·7 0·0 o 3·4 14 Banks 5 2 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 12 Eilers 9 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 Jarosz 2 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 Mihalko 6 0·0 0·0 o 0·0 6 Terrell 9 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 Stonebrkr 9 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 NO 9 40 31·37 2·3 0 12·15311 OPP 9 13 12·13 1·2 010·12122 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG Brooks 101 613 6.1 2 52 
Green 104 542 5.2 4 40 
wanted Graham to hit tight end Andy Heck with the pass, but Penn State picked him off in the endzone to salvage a 14-7 halftime advantage. 
In the third period, the Irish stormed back with an impres­sive 77-yard drive that cul­minated in a Rice 11-yard op­tion TD. The sophomore signal-caller gained a team­high 67 rushing yards and com­pleted 5-of-12 passes for 97 yards. 
Operating against a strong wind, Thomas and quarterback Matt Knizner put together a 76­yard drive that included some 
Rice 93 530 5.7 7 38 Johnson 63 255 4.0 5 22 Culver 23 165 7.2 3 36 Belles 15 72 4.8 0 18 Watters 29 64 2.2 0 14 Banks 21 61 2.9 1 8 Setzer 10 24 2.4 0 12 Eilers 5 20 4.0 1 7 K.Graham 8 18 2.2 0 5 Mihalko 4 10 2.5 1 4 P.Graham 5 9 1.8 0 9 Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 Jarosz ~ 4 1.3 1 6 NOTRE DAME 4892375 4.9 25 52 OPPONENTS 3321000 3.0 5 31 
PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Rice 111 55 .495 5 894 7 K.Graham 25 16 .640 2 144 0 Belles 4 2 .500 0 84 2 P.Graham 2 1 .500 0 16 0 NO 142 74 .521 7 1138 9 OPP 252 138 .548 14 1548 8 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Green 12 130 10.8 0 38 Watters 11 215 19.6 2 50 Brown 10 142 14.2 3 41 Ismail 9 198 22.0 1 57 Brooks 6 123 20.5 2 42 Johnson 6 105 17.5 0 28 Eilers 6 70 11.7 0 15 Banks 5 56 11.2 1 30 Alaniz 4 74 18.5 0 26 Mihalko 2 8 4.0 0 6 Robb 11 11.0 0 11 R.Smith 4 4.0 0 4 K.Graham 1 2 2.0 0 2 NOTRE DAME 741138 15.4 9 57 OPPONENTS 1381548 11.2 8 42 
tough running and a few short passes. Greene capped the drive with 7:26 remaining in the game on a 3-yard scamper to make it 21-14 Penn State. 
But the Irish refused to buckle. After two possession changes, the Notre Dame of­fense had just 4:33 and 62 yards to get to the endzone. 
Rice used a mixture of short passes and runs to bring the Irish all the way to the Lion 1-yard line. From there, An­thony Johnson hammered through the middle to cut the lead 21-20 with just 31 seconds remaining. 
LIONS SlATS 
TEAM STATISTICS PSU OPP 
TOTAL OFFENSE 3390 3184 
YARDS 

Total Plays 727 700 Yards per Play 4.7 4.8 Yards per Game 339.0 318.4 PENALTIES-YARDS 63·523 54·468 FUMBLES-LOST 21·9 23·12 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 188 173 By Rushing 1 03 63 By Passing 76 98 By Penalty 9 12 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 163·63 162·53 Percentage 38.7 32.7 POSSESSION TIME 302:19 297:41 Minutes per Game 30:22 29:38 
SCORING G TO PA R·PA S FG TP Brown 1 0 7 0·0 1-1 0 0·0 44 Gash 9 7 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 42 Tarasi 9 0 19·22 0·0 0 7-14 40 Timpson 1 0 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 Thompson 1 0 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 Thomas 10 2 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 12 Jakob 10 2 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 12 Smith 10 1 0·0 1·1 0 0·0 8 Daniels 1 0 1 0·0 1-1 0 0·0 8 Adkins 5 0 4·5 0·0 0 1·3 7 Lonergan 6 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 Greene 9 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 Young 9 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 Etze 1 0 1-1 0·0 0 0·0 1 PSU 1 0 29 24·28 3·3 0 8·17 228 OPP 10 19 16-17 1·2 314·22180 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Brown 125 666 5.3 6 57 Thompson 95 354 3.7 3 17 Greene 77 342 4.4 0 21 Redman 40 232 5.8 0 36 
The ensuing play was for all the marbles, and everyone knew the Irish were going for two. The Irish called a pass play. But Rice, confident that he could run it in, convinced Holtz during a timeout to change the call. 
"We had called a flood and if they (Penn State) over­shifted we'd go back to the op­tion," Holtz said. "He didn't feel comfortable with it so when Penn State called time, we changed because Tony said he could run it in. It was run all the way." 
The Lions' defense read the play perfectly. Rice took the 
Gash 32 82 2.6 7 12 Timpson 6 28 4.7 0 12 Gerak 12 22 1.8 0 7 Collins 1 20 20.0 0 20 Daniels 3 11 3.7 0 18 McDuffie 1 6 6.0 0 r; Dobis 1 3 3.0 0 .j Strycharz 1 3 3.0 0 3 Wisniewski 1 1 1.0 0 1 Paolillo 1 0 0.0 0 0 Sacca 41 ·1 ·.1 0 26 Lonergan 16 ·4 ·.7 1 12 Bill 18 ·54 ·3.0 0 13 PENNSTATE 4711711 3.6 17 57 OPPONENTS 4101321 3.2 10 PASSING NO CO PCT tNT YDS TO 
Sacca 140 52 .371 5 786 4 Bill 68 36 .529 2 476 3 Lonergan 47 24 .511 3 417 2 Brown 1 0 .000 0 0 0 PSU 256 112 .438 10 1679 9 OPP 290 146 .503 8 1863 8 
RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Timpson 21 322 15.3 2 60 Jakob 19 266 14.0 2 27 Daniels 13 276 21.2 1 45 Brown 11 152 13.8 1 42 Greene 10 158 15.8 1 79 Smith 8 151 18.9 1 40 Thompson 8 65 8.1 0 13 Wilson 5 99 19.8 0 32 Redman 4 27 6.8 0 8 McDuffie 4 42 10.5 0 15 Wolfe 4 19 4.8 0 9 Young 3 60 20.0 1 31 Gash 2 42 21.0 0 37 PENN STATE 1121679 15.0 9 79 OPPONENTS 144 1863 12.8 8 
snap and rolled right. There was no way to get around the outside so he turned it in at the five. Defensive tackle Pete Curkendall grabbed the quar­terback by the legs and wrestled him to the ground. It was over. 
"All the dreams (of a na­tional championship) we had are gone," said a dejected Holtz after the game. "We were three yards from it (victory). Football's a game of inches." 
The victory gave Penn State a 6-5-1 record against the Irish. Just enough to place it in that elite group. 
.SCHEDULES 
NOTRE DAME (9-0) d. MICHIGAN, 19-17 d. Michigan State, 20-3 d. PURDUE, 52-7 d. STANFORD, 42-14 d. Pittsburgh, 30-20 d. MIAMI, 31-30 d. AIR FORCE, 41-13 d. Navy, 22-7 d. RICE, 54-11 
Nov. 19-PENN STATE Nov. 26 -at Southern Cal 
PENN STATE (5-5) d. Virginia, 42-14 d. BOSTON COLLEGE, 23-20 I. RUTGERS, 21-16 d. Temple, 45-9 d. CINCINNATI, 35·9 I. SYRACUSE, 24-1 0 I. Alabama, 8-3 I. West Virginia, 51-30 d. MARYLAND, 17·10 
I. Pittsburgh, 14· 7 Nov. 19-at Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  PENN STATE OFFENSE  PENN STATE DEFENSE  
POS  NO  PLAYER HT  WT  CL  RE  30  Frank Starns 6-4  237  Sr.  POS  NO  PLAYEA HT  WT  CL  LT  75  Rich Schonewolf 6-4  259  Sr.  
SE  25  Raghlb Ismail 5-10  175  Fr.  37  Scott Kowalkowski 6·2  226  So.  FL  5  Michael Timpson 5·11  175  Sr.  70  Darryl Bullock 6·3  253  Sr.  
80  Steve Alaniz 6·2  196  Sr.  LT  69  George Williams 6·3  282  So.  8  Terry Smith 5·8  150  So.  NT  79  Dave Szott 6-4  250  Jr.  
QT  66  Andy Heck 6-7  2n  Sr.  74  Mirko Jurkovic 6·5  270  Fr.  AT  71  Tim Freeman 6·5  263  Sr.  88  Eric Renkey 6·2  245  Fr.  
64  Mike Brennan 6·5  246  Sr.  NT  50  Chris Zorich 6·1  260  So.  76  Paul Siever 6·5  255  So.  AT  89  Bob Mrosko 6·5  250  Sr.  
QG  52  Tim Ryan 6-4  245  So.  92  Bryan Flannery 6·3  249  Jr.  RG  77  Bob Vernaglla 6-2  245  Sr.  85  Frank Giannetti 6·2  230  Jr.  
53  Winston Sandri 6-4  253  So.  AT  90  Jeff Aim 6·7  246  Jr.  60  Ed Monaghan 6·3  258  Sr.  
c  55  Mike Heldt 6-4  258  So.  62  Ted FitzGerald 6·5  271  Jr.  C  78  Roger Duffy 6·2  265  Jr.  OLB  30  Nell Hamilton 6·1  200  Sr.  
76  Gene McGuire 6·5  265  Fr.  DE  97  Arnold Ale 6-4  200  Fr.  53  Rob Luedeke 6·5  238  Jr.  93  Geoff Japchen 6·3  220  Jr.  
TG  75  Tim Grunhard 6-3  279  Jr.  7  Andre Jones 6·4  215  So.  LG  66  Steve Wisniewski 6-4  260  Sr.  ILB  63  Scott Gob 5·11  230  Sr.  
61  Tom Gorman 6·6  255  Sr.  MLB  34  Wes Pritchett 6-6  251  Sr.  57  Sean Love 6·3  255  So.  95  Andre Powell 6·1  212  So.  
TT  71  Dean Brown 6-3  283  Jr.  36  Donn Grimm 6·2  224  So.  L T  74  Eric Johassen 6-6  285  Jr.  ILB  31  Andre Collins 6·1  200  Jr.  
72  Joe Allen 6·4  268  So.  64  Matt McCartin 6·4  275  So.  38  Mark D'Onofrio 6·2  225  So.  
TE  86  Derek Brown 6-7  235  Fr.  ELB  42  Mike Stonebreaker 6-1  226  Jr.  TE  86  Dave Jakob 6·2  230  Sr.  
88  Frank Jacobs 6·5  234  So.  47  Ned Bolcar 6·2  232  Sr.  82  John Wolfe 6·2  221  Jr.  OLB  92  Quintus McDonald 6·2  228  Sr.  
QB  9  Tony Rice 6-1  198  Jr.  FCB  1  Todd Lyght 6·1  181  So.  QB  15  Lance Lonergan 5·11  195  Sr.  42  Keith Goganious 6·3  230  So.  
17  Kent Graham 6·5  228  So.  33  David Jandric 6·2  192  Jr.  19  Tony Sacca 6·1  180  Fr.  Hero  84  Keith Karpinski 6-4  222  Sr.  
FB  22  Anthony Johnson 6-0  225  Jr.  SCB  29  Stan Smagala 5-11  186  Jr.  RB  27  Gary Brown 5·10  190  So.  28  Brian Chizmar 6·1  204  Jr.  
39  Braxston Banks 6·3  211  Jr.  32  D'Juan Francisco 5·11  187  Sr.  44  Leroy Thompson 5·11  204  So.  LCB  25  Willie Thomas 5·9  175  So.  
TB  24  Mark Green 6..()  184  Sr.  ss  27  George Streeter 6·2  212  Sr.  FB  11  Sam Gash 6·0  225  So.  9  Darren Perry 5·1 0  175  So.  
40  Tony Brooks 6·2  218  So.  26  Greg Davis 6·1  198  So.  20  John Greene 5·11  187  Sr.  FS  39  Eddie Johnson 5-10  164  Sr.  
FL  13  Pat Ellers 5-11  197  Sr.  FS  1 5  Pat Terrell 6..()  195  Jr.  SE  26  David Daniels 6-1  185  So.  48  Chris Cisar 6·1  180  Fr.  
21  Aaron Robb 6·1  192  Sr.  31  Corny Southall 6·2  194  Sr.  13  Odell Wilson 5·10  183  Sr.  RCB  36  Sherrod Ralnge 6-o  204  Sr.  
PK  2  Reggie Ho 5-5  135  Sr.  p  16  Jim Sexton 6..()  188  So.  PK  2  Henry Adkins 5·9  148  So.  6  Leonard Humphries 6·0  175  Fr.  
18  Billy Hackett 6·1  184  So.  13  Pete Hartweger 6·0  178  Sr.  10  Ray Tarasi 5·11  184  Jr.  p  4  Doug Helkowskl 6..()  205  So.  

..  PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS  
Each week, The Observer  
sports staff, a random student  
picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each  
 
 
 
 ~.J;)1j  ~ ~>~  
person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS.  Pete Sklko Asst. Sports Ed. 57·52·2 .523 (last week: 8·6·0)  Marty Strasen Sports Editor 52·57·2 An (last week: 8·6·0)  Jane Shea SMC Sports Ed. 51-58·0 .468 (last week: 6·8·0)  Steve Megargee Asst. Sports Ed. 49·60·2 .450 (last week: 9·5·0)  Theresa Kelly Asst. Sports Ed. 46-63·2 .395 (last week: 10·4·0)  Mike Cihak Random Student 52-57-2 .477 (last week: 8·6·0)  Chris Murphy Guest Celebrity 49·60·2 .450 (last week: 6-8..())  
Michigan over OHIO STATE by 10  Wolverines  Wolverines  Buckeyes  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  
Pittsburgh over N.C. State by 6  Wolfpack  Panthers  Wolfpack  Wolfpack  Panthers  Wolfpack  Panthers  
CLEMSON over S. Carolina by 10  Tigers  Gamecocks  Gamecocks  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  
MICH. STATE over Wisconsin by 31  Spartans  Spartans  Badgers  Spartans  Badgers  Spartans  Spartans  
Indiana over PURDUE by 16.5  Boilermakers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  
OKLAHOMA plck'em Nebraska  Corn huskers  Cornhuskers  Corn huskers  Corn huskers  Sooners  Corn huskers  Sooners  
W. VIRGINIA over Syracuse by 9  Mountaineers  Orange men  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Orangemen  Orange men  Mountaineers  
Southern Cal over UCLA by 1.5  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Trojans  Bruins  Bruins  Trojans  
Stanford over CALIFORNIA by 3  Cardinal  Cardinal  Bears  Cardinal  Cardinal  Bears  Cardinal  
WASH. ST. over Washington by 3.5  Cougars  Cougars  Cougars  Cougars  Cougars  Huskies  Cougars  
Miami over LSU by 7  Hurricanes  Tigers  Hurricanes  Tigers  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Tigers  
Lewis plck'em Breen-Phllllps  Chickens  Chickens  Chickens  Chickens  Chickens  Chickens  Chickens  
Dillon plck'em Stanford  Big Red  Studs  Big Red  Studs  Big Red  Studs  Studs  
NOTRE DAME over Penn State by 19  Nittany Lions  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  '  


Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 


Uno's and Due's Malnati's ADDRESS: ADDRESS: Uno's, corner of Ontario 441 North Wells and Wabash. Due's, corner of Ohio and Wabash RESERVATIONS: Recommended on weekendsRESERVATIONS: Recommended on weekends PHONE: (312) 943-2400 PHONE: UNO'S, (312) 321-1000 RECOMMENDATIONS: DUO'S, (312) 943-2400 Large cheese or sausage pizza. RECOMMENDATIONS: Cheese pizza w/ veg. toppings.  ful guitar work. The refrain song just came to him. His the future. He said that he goes like this: The Fightin' neighbors convinced him to has five or six dozen songs in Irish are baclvOh boy you pursue it further and he made a drawer at home and con­know a demo tape with some other tinues to write new ones. The Fightin' Irish are back area professionals, the un­There is also a chance that a We've been away a while my likely combination of a judge, music video for "The Fightin' friend a urologist, and a prosecuting Irish Are Back" will be But now we're back again attorney, who shared an in­released featuring film and we're gonna win terest in playing rock. Morris footage of great moments in The Fightin' Irish are back said that the present version Notre Dame football, both You can spread the news that is more refined than the past and present, and scenes The Fightin' Irish are back. demo, which had a strong 50's of Morris and friends record­It took 30 to 40 hours of studio honkey-tonk flavor. ing the song. work over October break to The Notre Dame Fight Song When asked if we could ex­record just under three is owned by Paul and Linda pect any live performances minutes of music. McCartney, so Morris had to on campus this year, he said, Professor Morris said that negotiate with their New "It's hard to get guys to­the main reason he recorded York representative to use gether to play," because this song was "to give some­parts of it in his guitar intro everyone has such busy thing to the students." He has and the final sax solo. schedules, but anything is thoroughly enjoyed interact-Morris bought his first possible with this professor.  

EEP ISH 
For $11.50, you can order a large cheese and sausage deep dish pizza. The thick crust is a Chicago-style staple, but Lou Malnati's layers of toppings make this pizza unique. The generous 
helping of cheese is covered by a layer of sausage--not sausage pieces. Lou Malnati's own tomato sauce tops off the dish. 
Uno's, located on the corner of Ohio and Wabash, and Due's down the block at On­tario and Wabash, are sister restaurants both located in the River North area of the city--home of Hard Rock Cafe and Ed DeBevics. Uno's and Due's can easily be located by the lines stretching out in front of the building. 
' 
Both pizzerias have been 
recently remodeled. Pictures of original owner Ike Sewell and copies of complimentary articles adorn the walls of these restaurants. Due's is a larger restaurant with an out­door porch for nice weather, while Uno's is the original 
home of Sewell's finest. 
Uno's and Due's large cheese ($11.69) on a good night is beyond compare. 
Thick crust topped with cheese and fresh tomato sauce make Uno's and Due's pizza one of Chicago's best. The sausage ($13.35) pizza resembles Malnati's because it also features a slab of sausage as opposed to small pieces. 
Gino's East, located at 160 
E. Superior just south of Water Tower Place offers similar pizza in a graffiti filled atmosphere. Be sure to bring a pen, knife or per­manent marker to leave a memory on the walls or tablecloths. 
Gino's large cheese piz­za($11.95) is a little skimpy on the cheese, and offers a different crust than the other two pizzerias. Gino's crust crumbles more than the toug­her crust of Due's and Mal­nati's. 
For fantastic Chicago-style deep dish pizza, these three pizzerias offer the best. However, all three are well known to Chicagoans and may be crowded, so either get there early or plan ahead. If you're looking for an ex­cuse to leave the Big Bend, Chicago style deep dish pizza and beer provides one. 
Morris scores: 
~THE FIGHTIN' IRISH ARE BACK' NO's new rock and roll fight song 
DAVID DESALLE 
accent writer 

H 
ow often is it that one of your professors records and releases a song and even readily admits to being a staunch rock aficionado? If you are one of the thousand or so stu­dents that Dr. Tom V. Morris, an associate professor of phi­losophy, will instruct this year this may come as no great surprise. 
On Monday, Professor Mor­ris released the first major rock and roll fight song, "The Fightin' Irish Are Back." It is being sold on cassette in the bookstore as is a tee-shirt depicting a guitar-toting leprechaun logo. Both have full University approval. 
Morris describes the tune as "an up-beat, up-tempo rock and roll song." He wrote the words and music himself and sings and plays guitar in the song. Accompanying him are Jim Greulich, Ernie Scarbrough, and Greg Noble, local recording artists. 
"The Fightin' Irish Are Back," according to the liner notes, "registers the contem­porary resurgence of Notre Dame football." It has a very catchy tune that some beer commercial ad-man is prob­ably eagerly waiting to snatch up. The music is driving and the lyrics are ag­gressive over Morris' master-
The Fightin' Irish are back 
Oh boy you know The Fight1n' Irish are back We've been away a while 
my friend But now we're back again
and we're gonna win The Fightin' Irish are back You can spread the news 
that The Fightin' Irish are back. 
... 
-

ing with the students and being part of the University for the past eight years and found a great way to show it. 
Two years ago, Morris was sitting around the house fid­dling with his guitar when the guitar at the age of 12. He spent around 15 years before and during his undergraduate studies playing in a variety of rock and soul bands in the South, performing his specialty, soul music. 
He graduated from the Uni­versity of North Carolina (Chapel Hill) and later received his doctorate in phi­losophy and religious studies from Yale University. Accor­ding to Morris, "It was a short step from soul music to philosophy of religion." He has written eight books and countless articles on the sub­ject. 
In his present role as hus­band, father, professor, licensed North Carolina real estate broker, and author, Morris has no problem pursu­ing his musical interests. He said, "You can can be a per­son of the mind and also love rock music." 
It is possible that Morris will record again sometime in 
page 12 etc. Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 
Smoking as a Sacrament of the dying 
geon General's office on the effects of smoking. I reasoned: "Play now; pay later; so what? Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof." 

Is this my way of warning you not to smoke? Not in the least; smoke if you wish. Why should I want to lecture you like a broken-down sport? I am afraid if you see how beautifully I use smoking as a second language, you'll decide that that worthless habit is glamorous, fulfilling, and a way of putting your best foot forward as a man or woman of the world. Next, as an enhancement to smoking, you'll start drinking cocktails before lunch and dinner. From there, you'll be hanging out at oyster bars that fea­ture sushi and other fancy junk food that will lead you into an identity crisis, from which you will emerge as a phoney. You'll find youself waking up in the morning to ask: "Who am I? How did I get here? Where am I going?" Let me tell you, kid, you're going nowhere except to the store to buy a pack of fags you can start the day on. 
As a smoker, I'm not fit to be your role model; let me warn you of that. Scripture says that the wages of sin is death; that includes the social sins that seem so harmless that they aren't even venial enough to mention in confes­sion. I've been a social sinner all my life, not realizing I would have to pay the piper in full for all the dances I ever asked him to play for me. Yesterday, I found there's no such thing as a free lunch. The doctor handed me a sack of medicine, saying: "This is the first day of the rest of your life." My social sins are catching up with me. Life's little joke is that you can't get away with anything, for as Christopher Robin realizes when he's starting school: "They won't let you." You don't have to ask for whom the bell tolls. You don't have to ask who "they" are. 

If I continue smoking, that happy diversion is going to catch up with me, if it hasn't already; but heck, I've al­ways known that Lady Nico­tine can be a bitch, even she is my muse. 
To tell the truth, I like all of you a lot. If I can't give up smoking for my own sake, maybe I should do it out of consideration for you. Don't hold your breath, waiting for me to do it, but could you pray that I'll have the Christ­ian courage to think about it? If ten confirmed smokers should say: "We'll give up the weed, Father Griffin, if you'll give up the weed with us," I don't see how I could refuse to at least try. I'd try to give up smoking if only five, or even two, young smokers make that kind of an offer. I'd do it for the sake of one, if he or she were as much a slave to tobacco as I am. But that's impossible, because you're rank amateurs, and I've grown old as a smoker. 
When the time comes to die, I hope I'll have a rosary in my hand instead of a ciga­rette. When that dark hour comes, will I ask for a ciga­rette instead of the last Sacraments, with the weak excuse that I need one for the road? 
T 
he two great loves of my life have been writing and smoking cigarettes. In terms of pure devotion and energy expended, everything else has been secondary: love of God, love of family, service to the Church, the campus ministry. If this sounds shocking, per­haps I can explain myself in another way: smoking, like the aroma of incense, is a symbol of prayer. I smoke symbolically, as a way of worshipping God, and my 
Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely God 
writing is my way of serving God as a priest. 
In 20 years of journalism, I have only missed meeting two deadlines. Juvenal, the Roman poet and satirist, wrote: "An incurable itch for scribbling (scribendi cacoethes) takes possession of many and grows inveterate in their insane hearts." I have scribendi cocoethes, and I have it bad. But I am even more faithful to smoking than I am to writing. I am better at smoking than I am at writing. I have managed to turn smoking into an art form. 
Smoking, if you do it grace­fully, has the solemnity of a mini-litury, which begins with learning the proper way to light a match, holding it away from you until the sulphured 
· has · In 1943, a coed from Smith who was majoring in rituals taught me the way to light a lady's cigarette; if you do it clumsily or hastily, you can set her hair on fire. 
I saw the 1940's movie "Now, Voyager" seven times to study the way Paul Henried would put two cigarettes in his mouth at once. Lighting both, he would offer one to Bette Davis, emitting bat squeaks of sen-
as he did so. To see 

Bogart and Lauren Bacall 
smoking together was like 
watching an intimate love 
scene between creatures who 
celebrate life with a mating 
dance. 

Even in those days, there was nothing glamorous about an ashtray full of cigarette butts, reminding you of trashy novels of tired lovers, their bodies drained of pas­sion, waiting for the shabby dawn in a cheap hotel, as dead-ended in their affair as a burnt-out, discarded Lucky Strike. 
Why am I mentioning all this? Because I've started to feel uncomfortable when I see students smoking. I'm begin­ning to feel guilty for giving them a bad example. For many years, I have shrugged off the reports from the Sur-

-----~-------,--~-----------.~------~----------~ 
Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 The Observer page 13 
1
I I 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
ROUND TRIP TICKET FROM SB TO ROCKIN' RENTS FROM MILWAUKEE Even the Pope didn't sell out the You don't have to be from the West Coast HEH JOHN SAMUEL HOWARTH WHITE PLAINS, NY. DEC. 14 RETURN NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A.'5-CALL Coliseum, but Notre Dame has!!!! I have to enjoy & JAMES PATRICK DANAHYNOTICES JAN. 17. CALL JIM 277-9956. LAURA AT # 4419 $$$$$$ 2 USC GA's for the highest bidder---Call CORVALLIS CALLING lt"s going to be HARD to BARE down to 
Ed at 1686 Sun. Nov. 20 from 8 to 12 beat Penn State this weekend without PHOENIX! 1 Way Plane Ticket from I need Penn St. GA's call Mike at 277-at Shenanigans (in the G-town Mall) You your intimate undergarments But at least Chicago Midway on Dec. 15 Great Price! 1503 OK It's Fri. and I still need 3 Penn st don't have to stay in and study this Sun. you're showing your school spirit by dan· 
TYPING AVAILABLE Call Kelly 3462 stud or GA's 287-5451 Ken. It's only a two day week So go to Mass gling them in front of LaFortune. 287-4082 
NEED 8 USC TIX. CALL 2761. in the morning and party with Corvallis 2PENNSATEG.A.SFORSALE 01¥1722 ITS FRIDAY Calling at night PITT CLUB BUS I need one (only one!) ticket for AND I HAVE THE LAST PITT CLUB BUS WORDPROCESSING-TYPING RNDTRP. TICKET CHICAGO-USC $125 USC.$$$$ call Molly 4544. 50 YO LN P ST GA 4 SALE RIDE NEEDED TO ROCH, NY AREA SEATS STILL AVAILABLE. Call Mike or 272-8827 CALL MIKE 3526 SO X3201 ON 111.!1. CALL BRETT x2034 Kevin at 3322--$60 RT Penn stud tix FOR SALE FOR SALE: '82 CHEVY CAVALIER­Call Mike at 2647 FIESTA BOWL DISCOUNTED AIR MIKE PAESE FOR FIESTA BOWL L NEW BRAKES, NEW TIRES, OVER NEED 1 PENN ST STUD. SUSAN x1298 FARES Round trip to Phoenix: Chicago QUEEN!! MIKE PAESE FOR FIESTA $1000 REPAIR WORK SINCE O'Hare $240 & $248 Chicago Midway BOWL QUEENII ACADEMICf!USINESS TYPING AUG.(CARBORATOR NEEDS WORK) HELP!! NEED 2 OR MORE PENN ST. FOR SALE $283 Detroit $214-$298 New York J.F.K. 237-1949 102.000 MILES, GOOD PRICE-$500 STUD TIX GEORGE 1595!! 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL TRACY AT $278 Cleveland $298 DESPARATE FOR RIDE TO NYC! WILL CALL MARY AT 284-5060 272-0389 Ft. Wayne $358 Dallas $258 Wash. D.C. DO ANYTHING. CAN LEAVE 111.!1 22 Need 2GAs & 1 Stud for Penn St!!! Call $238 Philly $318 Cincy $318 Louisville 23. CALL DAN AT 1724 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Maurine x2615. 
$338 Atlanta $288 Boston $258 Limited MRS. COKER, 233-7009. HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY
no. of seats available! Must buy by Nov. TICKETS HELP! I'm going home to California for PERSONALS 28. Call Cynthia (214) 233-8468 or NANCY RAFINSKI LOCAL NOT FOR PROFIT ORGANIZA­USC game, but I have no tix! If you can (214) 324-9831 (H). I LOVE YOU, ERIC TION HAS OPENINGS FOR QUALIFIED help, call Kevin at 1128. PERSONS IN OUR GROUP HOMES. 
N.D. CANDYNEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE 

RESIDENTIAL ASSIS-I need 1 PENN ST GA. Scott 1730 . Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White RIDE NEEDED to BINGJ1THACA area BUFFALO CRISTMAS BUS-Sign up in
CALL SHEILA--271-9365 
Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check for Thanksgiving: can leave Mon.: will LaFortune Lobby on Nov. 29 from 5:30 CARE AND TREATMENT FOR NEED 3 STUD OR G.A. TIX FOR PENN to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 share expenses:call Erin # 3757 to 7:30. $60. Questions? Call Peter TANT&SUBSTITUTES PROVIDES TOP $ FOR GOOD SO. CAL SEATS. 
DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED STATE..DESPERATE!! CALL ED AT S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037.213-741-(x1508) or Kim (x3505).
NEED 2~. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT 
1338. I NEED A RIDE FOR THANK. BREAK
ADULTS. FLEXIBLE WORK 287-7933
(805) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
TO (OR ANYWHERE NEAR) EXIT 17 The UNDERGROUND presents LICENSE AND TRANSPORTATION TOP $ FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S & 1 SCHEDULES. VALID DRIVER'S UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-8889 ON THE PA TURNPIKE. CALL BETH Youth In AsiaOHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS 
NEEDED. FULL TIME, PART TIME, STUDENT TICKET. CALL KATHY AT # 2964$$$ High Energy Progressive Rock
PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT 
SUBSTITUTES. REPLY TO: LOGAN 2880 ASAP!! HEY SENIORS ... Friday 18, Nov. starting at 9:30
AFTER 5 PM 216-633-1072 FRANCIS. 
1235 N. EDDY ST., P.O. BOX 1049, SO. Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell PANDORA FECKO Grace Hall Basement BEND. IN 46624: 289-4831 1 PENN ST. STUDENT TICKET FOR Going to an SYR is hell. IT'S PANDORA'S B-DAY THIS 
I need penn state tickets. call at 277­SALE, BEST OFFER, CALL PAT AT You and I, we both know that, SUNDAY!! CALL HER AT X1302 6224. 
The Christmas Formal is where it's at JUST REMEMBER DORA--IT COULD GET UGLYII!! Allen Faye and the McNelis I need 2 USC tickets Please help me out 
1004. 

I Need TWO PENN STATE STUDENT Be sure to sign-up before you leave for Acoustic and Folk A if you have any. Call Bob at x3647. 
Thanksgiving ... Saturday 19, Nov. same place-time VIAtickets: Please call MEGAN 2577
LOST/FOUND 
HO a FREE UNDERGROUND prod.Need PSU tix stu or GA Call Chris at 
HO FINDNEED PENN ST GAs. CHRIS x1073277-7384 
HO 

Help! If somebody took by mistake a blue WILL PAY BIG$$$$ FOR PENN STATE Thankyou St. Jude 
HELP! REALLY NEED 3 GAs to USC!
book bag on Friday November 11 at the FIND A FRIEND IN AUGUSTA
GA'S CALL MONTE 2831577
Cecilia 4431

South Dining Hall, around 1 p , please CHRISTMAS FORMAL DEC. 2 contact Liang Zhu at 283-3 52 or leave HELP MUST HAVE 4 GAS FOR USC CHRISTMAS FORMAL DEC. 2 WE ARE B.P.!! LET'S GO BLITZ BAR­
Rednecks need 1 student and 2 GA's for 
a message to the Instil of International CHRISTMAS FORMAL DEC. 2 Augusta BEQUE POULTRY!!!
PLEASE PLEASE CALL HEATHER 284­Penn State game. Call Bosephus at 3157 
Christmas or 3155. 
Peace Studies. 5264 OR LEAVE A MESSEGE COME ON SENIORS--SPEND Cocktail Party Need a ride to MPL&St. PAUL for 
FOUND: set of keys In Oak Room CHRISTMAS TOGETHER. Dec. 3 Thanksgiving. Can leave Monday. before Fall break. call John 3443. Call a Friend Please call 284-4430. 
2 Penn St. tixs for sale 272-5095
New Jersey devil also needs Penn State GA's. Call Rudolph at 3155 or 3157. 
NEED PENN STATE G.A.'S CALL 284­
MATH TUTOR-234-3878.

I lost a gold pulsar watch last Friday.The St. Edwards Hall Players
4336.

HELP! I need a stud Penn St. tik. -call Amy 3789 "John Blasi Is a male slut." -T.C.
band on it is busted.so if you found it -----HAPPY BIRTHDAY LOUISE-------. will proudly present Its 
don't put it on. Instead, please call Shifty LOVE YOUII! LOVE, QUEENS COURT One little,
NEED RIDE TO at 1588 Otherwise I will have my room­Two lillie,
DUTCHESS COUNTY, N.Y.
I NEED 4 PENNST TIX! X4000 MIKE TUES. OR WED.
mate Paul beat you up. Reward offered PLANE TICKET FOR SALE Three little Indians 
I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y.C AREA go 11­
TO D.C. ON NOV. 19 Four little,Need two GA's for Penn State Call Rob 22 ret 11-27 will share exp call Peterfor the finder. 
CALL CINDY 272-7690 
CHEAP!! Five lillie, at # 1051 or Brian at 3234 x2124
REWARD to the person returning my 89 Call 284-4242. Six lillie Indians
I need PENN STATE ticket call 2226 class ring left in the Loftus mens locker Seven little, room. It has MJM on the inside. Call Man PENN STATE 2226 Have you been to every band concert Eight lillie,
I NEED PENN ST & USC TIX 272-6306 HELP! I need a ride to Exit 6 PA Tu rnpike for Thanks. break. Will pay $$$ 
this year? Do you throw your under-wear Nine lillie Indiana NEED 4 USC TIX PLEASE CALL 3570 Mike x4141
at 289-4315. PENN STATE call 2226 at Irish Guard members? You, too can TEN LITTLE INDIAN BOYS 
LOST: An 18", 14K gold chain. Lost be an offical Notre Dame Marching Band A 'terror'lflc Agatha Christie ADOPTION IS THE ONLY WAY we will
sometime before noon on Tues., Novem­I NEED 2 USC TICKETS, HAVE$$$$! Groupie. With your membership, you MYSTERY!II ever hear the laughter of our own child
ber 15. It is diamond cut on one side, Hello. We need Penn State tix GA or PLEASE CALL TERRY, 288-5423 receive: 
when St. Nicholas comes at Christmas.
hering bone on the other. Please call student Call 3488. Goodbye. 1. A paperweight sized replica of HELP SUPPORT THE St.EDS 
We are a happily married couple, both 
Mike Coffey's bass drum PLAYERS doctor who wish to take turns staying at 
Leslie at 2812. NEED PENN STATE TIX. BIG$$$ CALL 
2. A clarinet reed used by Vicky BY FEASTING AT THE CAST RUN home when we a Esposito during the Miami game CONCESSION STANDI!! 
PLEASE' I NEED 3 PENN ST TIX. JOE 831-3727 Collect betw. 8-5 have baby to adoptX1728
LOST: ONE ILLINOIS DRIVER'S and love as our own. LegaV medical ex­
3. A synthetic lock of Erin We'll be at the loot of the LICENSE. THE PERSON WHO FOUND penses paid. Call collect, confidentially, FLAGPOLE PLEASE: Help me impress my brothers 
Stewart's hair IT CALLED MY ROOMMATE. PLEASE 4. The life-size Christine Su fash­THANK YOU, 
Need Penn St. G.A. Tix. Call Joe at 287-by selling 2 Penn St GA's!$$$ call
me anytime for more info or to leave a mes­
4561. TRISH x4003 
CALL AGAIN-I NEED SOME IDENTIFI­sage. (317)-844-1856 ion doii--Barbie clothes will ST.EDS HALL PLAYERS CATION# 2681 KEVIN fit
PLEASEII-I NEED PENN STATE TICK­AG­ELLEN NICHOLS 
ETS!! CALL FRAN-# 2999 GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG LOST: Gray Maxell Disc at Computing FIESTA BOWL QUEEN And, if you call soon, a special bonus: JUNIORS
Please help me!! I am broke!!! If you
Center on Sunday, Nov. 13 at approx. I NEED PENN ST TIX CALL NED AT are Penn Student 5. A life-size pin-up poster of MOVIE NIGHT
In need of a St. 1178 Tlcket-1 have one. Call me at 2612 and
5 pm. Initialized TRACY. Need Tony Villanueva--OR--the offical TIJES. NOV. 29 
deaperately. Call 239-5474 or 683-Tony Villanueva commemorative 9:30 7664. bookmark SENIOR BAR 
save me from becoming a THE SENIOR BLOCK PARTY 
I need two GA's for the Penn State game. pauper!!!Thankslll 
IS TODAY! 
FEATURING PLANES, TRAINSPlease call Melissa at 283-3090 after AND AUTOMOBILES7:00PM. 

BE AT THE J.A.C.C. FROM 3-6 PM 
LOOKING for GUY to switch USC TRIP $1 TO KICKOFF OUR FINAL HOMENEED PENN ST STUD? I HAVE ONEI flight I depart 111.!3 5:50pm NWST Want FOOD WILL BE AVAILABLE
HELP!! All I need are 2 Penn St GAs BEST OFFER AT 2186-TIFFANY!I!
FOR RENT 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND! 

to depart 3pm NWST. Jim 1865 AT NOMINAL PRICES
Call Tina at x4846 ANYTIME!! THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE EMERGENCY!! 
OR LOOKING for GIRL to switch USC TRIP 
NEED PENN ST STUD OR GA'SII CALL I DESPERATELY NEED PENN STATEBED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­ROCKNE WOULD BE PROUD TO 
flight I depart 111.!3 3pm NWST Want SO YOU SAY YOU DIDN'T GET 291-7153. HAVE YOU PLAY IN HIS STADIUM,
ROB 271-8323 TIXI PLEASE CALL ME AT 2853 ASAP! 
to depart 5:50 NWST. Sharon 1813 THAT DOGBOOK PIX TAKEN? LEWIS. GO GET 'EM CHICKENS! BLITZ 
WELL, YOU STILL HAVE ATWO SEASON BASKETBALL TICKETS DESPERATE 

BP! 

BUSH OR DUKAKIS? CHANCE TO GET IN THAT
FOR SALE. CALL KEN 312-844-7236. I need 2 Penn State GA's Call Mark FAMOUS BOOKFurnished Rooms & 2 Bedroom home 
$2342 WE REALLY DON'T CARE WHO YOU CANDID INDIV. AND GROUP
near campus.272~ RIDERS WANTED 
I NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S AND 1 STUD Need riders to Fairfield VOTED FOR, WE JUST WANT YOUR SHOTS ARE BEING ACCEPTED
CALL JULIE 284-5440 I NEED STD. TIX FOR PENN STATE!! CALL AND GIVE PRICE TO NICK AT 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO. County Ct. for Thanksgiving­
MONEY!I!III STOP BY THE FAG. CON­SLIDE UNDER THE CLASS OFACE AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES­share expenses, leaving 21st or 
CESSION STAND BEFORE THE PENN OOOR UNTIL NOV. 30
CHICAGO ALUMNI-WILL PAY TOP$$ 3247
TER. 287-6389 OR 683-8689. 23nd, return 27th STATE GAME AND GET YOUR HOT WITH $.50 FOR EACH PHOTOFOR A PAIR OF PENN ST. GA'S CALL Call Matt # 3610 DOGS, BRATS, DOUGHNUTS AND WE CAN'T PROMISE ALL 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT.for (312) 403-2659 NEED PENN ST GAS WILL PAY MORE, YOURS FREE WHEN YOU PHOTOS WILL GO IN
110.00 a month.Call-3476 ANYTHING OR DO ANY FAVORS TOM DONATE A PREDETERMINED EVEN IF YOU GOT A DOGBOOK
NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN. $$$ NO OB­1739 T-BONE-LIVES EROTIC CITY! 
AMOUNT OF MONEY. STOP BY, IT'S PHOTO TAKEN, SUBMIT A GROUPJECT TERRY 1806 ANYTIME. 
Murph A GOOD CAUSE, JUST ASK US. CANDIDneed 1 GAe2 stud tx for Penn St call MAKE THE PARENTS PROUD!

If you HAPPEN to be burdened by Paul1865 JO JO
WANTED 
extra Penn St. GA's in groups of 2's or GO LEWIS Your SMC chick will go crazy3's, call Pete x1 053 and let him help you NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX BEAT BP If you wrap your schwantz in
out TIM 287-6053 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 PAISLEY! ( blocks from campus. Pandora's Books ) NO FAIR! 
HELP!I'M DESPERATE!! NEED 3 PENN BOB Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Ph# 
LEWIS FOOTBALL SUNDAYI!III She is A soft Sunlit Flower GracefullyTICKETS CALL MARY 3782 ANYTIME! I NEED 2 PENN ST. STIJD TIX X1631 
swaying in the coo/ Refreshing Vema/
233-2342 I need a ride to DALLAS for T -giving Airs 
DESPERATELY NEED 8 PENN ST GA'S NEED 5 PENN ST. TIX STUD OR GA 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $90()..2000 mo. I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR break. Will sing show Young dewdrops alight upon Petals of CALL TODD AT 1406 OR 1409 WILL PAY $ CALL CH AIS x2866 
T-GIVING. $$. CHRIS x3048. silken gladness and Gently shimmer as
Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrlea, All tunes. Call Mike at x4339 
visions of Morning Starlight 

fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­
OF COURSE I NEED PENN STATE TIX Really need 2 Ga's and 1 Student for 
KIM, Her loving voice Sighs peacefully like a
IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 4 G.A.'s and 1 Stud. Penn St. x 1577 
Vivir sin su amor Congratulations warm Embracing Spring Breeze And is Tom Varnum x3267 
noes vivir cherished by the Birth of the New Day
HELP I NEED TO GET OUT OF SO Laura
3 PENN STATE STUD TIX NEEDED 
Her sweet caress Calms the silent MICHELLE# 2615
BEND IF YOUR GOING TO THE D.C. love, 
Kelly Clamoring Strife
AREA FOR BREAK PLEASE CALL KIM CLUB 23 Stop by for dinner or drinks Chao~c And van­
HELPII I NEED 1 PENN ST. STIJDENT 
quishes the mirky darkness

284-5174 $$$ 
TICKET. MY SISTER WANTS TO SEE ACK THPFT!! My folks just cancelled with friends this week. 
At last She is kissed And the LovingND KILL ST. CALL MARK x1937 their trip for the PENN STATE game and 
Warmth embraces ·Her In the soft light
RIDERS NEEDED hi ag.
I'M STUCK WITH TWO GA's. Call Bill THANKSGIVING BANQUET 
of the Awakening Dawn

To Pitts. for Thanksgiving Call laura 284­
PLEASE I NEED PENN TICKETS, GA'S the Cat at x1474. Dinner at the Anaheim Marriott for 
·LAUNCELOT

5243. 
OR STUDENTS. $$ NO OBJECT. ANYONE going to the USC GAME, tix BALLROOM COMPETITORS--meet
································································ PLEASE CALL DAVID AT 2275 Help! My folks backed out and now I'm at the LaFortune Box Office until Friday, Friday in room 219 of THE ROCK-­HEY SENIORS: 
stuck with 2 Penn State GA's. Fair prices. Nov. 18 btwn 12:30 & 6:00pm Share the 
women who want to, come at 2 and
Hi I Are you from Iowa ? No ? Well I am .day with other NO Fanslll Pay by cash, everyone else, at 311! THIS IS THE LAST WARNING YOU
FOR SALE 
and I need 6 Penn State G.A.'s for some Jeff x1474 check, Visa, or Master card. ADVANCE GET. Iowans. So help me out and sell me your SALES ONLY!I 
MONEY FOR THE CHRISTMAS FOR­BRIAN,
tickets-Go watch the game at Coach's or 3 PENN ST. GAs CALL X2829 lor sale: 1 plane tix:SB to Newark 11122-You're SUCH a nice person and I MAL IS DUE BEFORE THANKSGIVING. 
somewhere ... Pat at 272-5848. LEAVE OFFER & PH.# 
WANTED: Riders to Houston for Thanks­
111.!8-1'11 sell at cost call # 2898 or 288-am SO happy that you are my friend. SEE YOUR CLASS REP OR GO TO 
giving. Leaving Mondayish, returning THE CLASS OFFICE ON THE SECOND 
Happy birthday. 

9402 
PENN. ST. TIX FOR SALE! NEED PSU stud or GA 2448 Brian x3670. 2 G.A.'s call Melt # 3610 please please. 
................................................................ Sunday. Call at Please Lynn FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. USC PACKAGEII 
Only a Scrooge would miss this.. 

NEED PENN ST TIX: CALL 234-9138,For sale. Guys only. Call Dan at 271­---BILLY THE ID 
0758. 
FOR SALE: 2 PENN STUD. TIX; $40£A. 
JAN, HELEN, AND KAREN, Now the OF­Will trade 2 USC tx for 2 Penn St GAs. OR B.O. 277-7298 Uve at McCormick'sOmey Island Uve rock and roll 
FICIAL countdown to D.C. can begin-less Call John at 271-0129(1eave message) FRIDAY NIGHT
TECHNICS SL-BD2 turntable: Jay"1910 BILLY THE 10 
than two months ! Congrats-D.C. here WANT TO SEE N.D. CRUSH THE 
T!GIVING ROUND TRIP Friday night at McCormick's we come I Rachael 
HELPII LIONS SAT.? YOU SAY ITS SOLD (downtown next to Senor Kelly's) O'HARE TO SAN FRAN. Need 2 USC Tix Badly OUT? WELL I HAVE ONE PENN ST. HELP! Need a ride to Albany, NY,for PARTY WITH THE ID II 
20th-26th $233 x3201 Call Rich 1461 or John 1 073 STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE. CALL Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. call MIKE 1228 Veronica 3764. see CLASS, page 5 
' 
.:J 

-~------------~--~------~ -~ 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988
page 14 
Notre Dame this season, com­a few CCHA schools. ThoseMadson piling over 620 minutes of tougher opponents are wel­
SPORTS BRIEFS
playing time. Nevertheless, he come changes for the players
continued from page 20 
doesn't consider himself over­who hope to prove their worth Madson, the junior worked. to the NCAA tournament selec­
The pep rally for the Notre Dame-Penn State game will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyce ACCgoaltender, has been nothing "Physically, I don't think I tion committee this season. 
fieldhouse. -The Observer 
short of spectacular this season am (being overworked), but "The guys on the team really for the Irish. Mter setting a it's pretty tough mentally to wanted to have that upgraded 
The self-paced swim program will have its next 
school record last year with 24 play so many games," ad­schedule, so we could see 
meeting Monday, Nov. 28 at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquaticvictories, the Minnetonka, mitted Madson. "Like I told Co­where we fit in with the top 
classroom. A video presentation will be given, and Minn., native has performed ach Schafer before, I wouldn't teams," said Madson. 
workouts will be issued. -The Observer even more brilliantly against want to have it any other way. "They're a little quicker, a stiffer competition this season. I just want to play every game notch up from what we're used 
WVFI-640 AM will broadcast the Notre Dame-Lake Madson has turned away 432 that I can." to." 
Forest hockey game tonight. Join Jamey Rappis and Will of 480 shots on goal for a save Three years into his col­Lake Forest is a familiar foe 
Clark as they call all the action, starting at 7 p.m. -The percentage of .900. His 4.64 legiate career, Madson to Madson and the other Irish 
Observer 

goals against average is mis­believes he has finally learned players. Still, Schafer plans to 
lnterhall football equipment return for teams who
leading, however, because of to relax in goal and let things unveil a new "break-out sys­have not yet done so will take place Wednesday, Nov. 30,the tougher competition and take care of themselves. tem" to help clear the puck out with exact times appearing in The Observer immediately lackluster play of the defense. "I feel pretty comfortable of the defensive zone. 
following Thanksgiving break. -The Observer
"Lance, 10 games into the now," said Madson. "Also, it season, has probably sewn up helps that I've played most of "This weekend we changed 
WVFI-640 AM will broadcast the Notre Dame-Penn
the Most Valuable Player the teams that we're gonna our system a little bit," hinted State football game Saturday with coverage starting ataward," revealed Schafer. play against, so I have some Madson. "We changed our 11:30 a.m. Join Jamey Rappis and Greg Guffey as they"That's how important he is to idea of how they're gonna play­break-out and how our for­
announce all the action. -The Observerthe hockey team. He is the -that helps a lot." wards come back and help out. steadying force behind our The teams on the Irish I don't think they were doing 
Referees are needed for men's basketball, women's 
hockey team right now." schedule Madson hasn't played that before. Hopefully, we're basketball and grad basketball with the opportunity of The 6-1, 180-pound goaltender against in the past include Mer­gonna be able to get it (the earning $8 per game. Stop by the NVA office or call239-6100 has started every game for rimack, Alaska-Anchorage and puck) out of our zone easier." 
for more details. -The Observer 

-----~------~ -----~­
Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 The Observer page 15 

The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

The Notre Dame wrestling team competes in the Irish whipped Air Force 36-9 last Sunday in its individual-draw St. Louis Open this weekend. The first dual meet of the season. 

Friday, December 2 South Bend's Union Station 
9PM_l AM 
Featuring "The Groove" 
$18 per Couple 
'il?etwm ~ ~ ad.~ 
eo. s~ eta44-o~ 4 
7&«4da'f. ~22 u
Last Chance for Tickets 
~Hak~~· 
Next Tuesday 
"rt.u~t~ ~ s~ ~ OU«-e-.L«?~.
Nov. 22 

WAKE UP THE ECHOES: NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 100th Anniversary Edition 
We are proud to present, for the many fighting Irish fans, a completely updated and revised edition of "Wake Up the Echoes." Ken Rappoport, a widely recognized sportswriter for the Associated Press, has updated this complete history of Notre Dame football through the 1987, 100th anniversary season. 
Notre Dame. The name alone stands for football excellence. Knute Rockne, the Gipper, and the Four Horsemen. No school in America has the height, depth, and breadth of Notre Dame's football story. You will find out why between the pages of this classic title. 
Along with Rockne's "inspirational salesmanship," the Gipper's untamed flamboyance, and the hoofbeats of the Four Horsemen are the grandeur of Frank Leahy and the modern glories of Ara Parseghian, Dan Devine, and Gerry Faust, among other magical moments leading up to the naming of the new head coach Lou Holtz. 
Relive all of the rich memories in this definitive account of Notre Dame's 
glittering football history from 1887 to the present. "Wake Up the Echoes," is a classic volume of football history with over a hundred vintage photographs. 512 pages of exciting text, photographs and appendix. 
Available at your local bookstore or order now to reserve your copies, as this 
limited printing is already selling fast. 
---------~-------------------------------------------------­
Please send me copy(ies) of "Wake Up the Echoes." Enclosed is my 
check or money order for $21.95 (19.45 plus $1.50 shipping) per book. 
SendNAMEto: ________________________________________ 
ADDRESS____________________________________ 
CITY____________STATE ________ZIP________ 
Make check or money order payable to: STRODE PUBLISHER, P.O. BOX 626, TOMBALL, TEXAS 77375-0626 
Wrestlers heading-for St. Louis Open 
By GREG with a win in the 126-pound divi-SCHECKENBACH sion. Other freshme competing Sports Writer this weekend include 190-pound 
Curt Engler and heavyweight 
Fresh off a 36-9 pasting of the Chuck Weaver. 190-pound Tom Air Force Academy last Salvino will miss the Open be­weekend, the Notre Dame cause of a leg injury. wrestling team will try to con-"This is a great meet for the tinue its winning ways this freshman because they can get weekend at the St. Louis Open. to see some great competition 
This individual-draw tourna-and not have the pressure of ment will feature some of the competing for the team," wrestlers from some of the top McCann stated "Our younger schools in the country, includ-kids must mature and gain con­ing Oklahoma State, Oklahoma fidence in order compete sue­and Nebraska. cessfully at this level. This 
"This is one of the toughest tournament can do nothing but tournaments of the year for help our freshmen." us," said Head Coach Fran Last year's top Notre Dame McCann. "We will be up freshman, Mark Gerardi, will against some tough competi-try to improve on last year's tion which should stenghthen third-place finish at St. Louis. us for the rest of the season." The individual-draw tourna-
The Irish performed well in ment gives other wrestlers be­last year's St. Louis Open. Pat sides the usual starters to get Boyd took first place in the 142-an opportunity to wrestle in the pound division, while Andy freshmawsophmore division. Radenbaugh, Jerry Durso and "This is a great chance to see Chris Geneser all recorded how our walk-ons can perform second-place finishes. Durso, in pressure situations," said who will be aiming for his third McCann. Open title, lost last year's final The Irish will send about 20 to 1988 Olympic gold medal members, including the winner John Smith. Raden-starters, to the meet. baugh and Geneser currently ''We definitely want to do bet-sport perfect 4-0 records. ter then last year and we should 
Freshman Marcus Gowens, for that matter,'' said McCann. another undefeated Notre "Our intensity is up and I ex­
Dame wrestler, will try to keep pect great results from all our his collegiate career -wrestlers." · 
~....----....~~.-~------~ 
TROPHIES & SPORTSWEAR 
Trophies • Awards • Screen Printing Embroidery • Advertising Specialties Bowling Supplies • Uniforms 
• Jackets • Caps 
2531 Llncolnway West Mishawaka 
259-0014 SAVE AN EXTRA 10% ON ALL TROPHIES & AWARDS WITH THIS AD 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND AMERICAN DISHES 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS 

• 
FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION 

• 
HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE DINING 

• 
VEGETARIAN MENIJ 



6329 University Commons HOURS Mon-Thurs 11 AM 9 (Across From University Park Mall) Friday 11 AM-10 PM South Bend, IN 46635 Saturday 12 Noon-10 PM 
lEI ror Ueservatiom & Carrv-Out Call: Sf·. R 272-6702 r.~~, 
STUDENTS 
•••••Club Shenanigans ••••• 
Playing this weekend Friday & Saturday Vic Troia 10 p.m. -2 a.m. Sunday NO campus band Corvalli's Calling 8 p.m. -midnight 52303 Emmons Rd. Mon.~ Thur. I 1:00am-1:00am eorgetown Shopping CentN Fri.-Sal I 1:00am-3:00am 277-1727 
us 31 




I, 
r 
I I I I 
The Observer

page 16 
Irish squad on 'killing spree' 
Volleyball team looks to continue hot streak at W. Mich. 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Kill, kill and kill again. 

It may sound like the scenario for a new horror film, but it actually is what the Notre Dame volleyball team has to do if it hopes to provide a happy ending to its 1988 season and year-long search for an NCAA bid. 
The Irish will try to maintain their momentum from last weekend's Golden Dome Clas­sic title as they travel to Kalamazoo, Mich., for the Western Michigan Invitational. 
Notre Dame has a little more incentive going into this weekend's matches after jumping from 19th to 16th in Tuesday's NCAA poll--the high­est ranking ever for the program, which has appeared in the top-20 two times earlier this season. 
"I like the ranking," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "The girls certainly deserve it, but they're going to have to 
Zadar 
continued from page 20 
who scored 32 and 25 points, respectively, in last year's con­test with Notre Dame. 
Phelps is looking for a faster, more aggressive style of play from the Irish this year. The Irish heeded their coach's re­quest at last Sunday's Blue­Gold intrasquad game, where 140 points were scored in a 30­minute scrimmage. 
Exemplifying the team atti­tude, the players competed in the Blue-Gold game with shirts 
STEAKS  .,.  
~· I.  
PRIMERIB  .  ·  

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

Biomedical Sciences 
Integrated graduate training opportunities 

• 
Biochemistry/Metabolism /Nutrition 

•Cell 
Biology/ Cell Physiology 

• 
Developmental Biology /Anatomy 

• 
Environmental Health Sciences 

• 
Immunology/Pathology 

• 
Molecular Biology/Genetics 

• 
Neurosciences 

• 
Pharmacological Sciences Tuition and stipends are provided. Students with a strong academic record should specify an area of interest and contact: Coordinator of Graduate Studies West 452A Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine 2119 Abington Road 


Cleveland, Ohio 44106 216-368-3347 
~,,~ 
....:: ~ 
CWRU 
prove that on the court this weekend." 
The Irish will take on Miami of Ohio Friday night and, depending upon that game's outcome, take on either host Western Michigan or Minnesota on Saturday night. 
Notre Dame has not faced Miami since 1983, when the Irish lost 3-0, but the Redskins are 12-15 thus far and currently are weathering a three-match losing skid. 
The Irish have faced both Western Michigan and Min­nesota earlier this season with mixed results. 
They defeated the Broncos, who now are 11-9, for the first time in four attempts on Oct. 17, sweeping them in three games, 15-8, 15-6 and 15-8. 
But Notre Dame was upset by 18-8 Minnesota on Oct. 21 during the last leg of its Octo­ber break roadtrip, 5-15, 12-15 and 4-15. 
The Irish will need to keep their hitting game at its current pace. The senior trio of Whit­ney Shewman, Maureen Shea 

saying "Run" and with "Defense" printed on the back of their shorts. 
"We love to run, but we also have to realize that we have to run under control," said junior co-captain Jamere Jackson. "Playing run-and-gun is one thing, but we're going to play a disciplined run-and-gun sys­tem." 
Fellow co-captain Joe Fredrick led all scorers in the Blue-Gold game with 28 points, while Jackson added 24. 
Freshman LaPhonso Ellis, a former high school All­American from East St. Louis, 

~--------PAULK.i;~~ 
t  t  
tI  Happy Birthday  tI  
t  "P-000"!  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  Love,  f  
f  Dad, Mom, David,  t  
t  Julie, and Maggie  f  

and Mary Kay Waller, as well as sophomore Tracey Shelton, have been pounding the volley­ball as of late. 
Shewman has a .531 hitting percentage over the last three games, while tallying 17 digs to bring her season total up to 249 digs for the year. 
Over the last seven matches, Shea has recorded a .448 hitting percentage. Waller has hit .409 and has added 18 service aces during the last eight matches. 
Waller, who is ranked eighth in the nation in blocking average, has registered 154 total blocks, 796 service aces and 347 kills, to lead the team in all of these categories. 
Shelton has proved she can play under pressure, hitting .389 during the Golden Dome Classic. 
"The key is to play smart and intelligent," said Lambert. "We have been playing very, very lately and I'd like to see us continue this way. Everyone will have to give 110 per cent and give a strong team effort." 
Ill., did not see action in the Blue-Gold game because of a Sunday night Freshman Semi­nar class with University pres­ident Fr. Edward Malloy. Friday's game will be his first 
performance in front of the Notre Dame fans, with the ex­ception of a midnight scrim­mage on Oct.14 that opened the team's practices. 
Other freshmen playing their first game against outside com­petition include Adkins, guard Elmer Bennett, Sweet and 6-11 Keith Tower. Junior walkon Tim Crawford also will be wearing a Notre Dame uniform for the first time. 

ICLUB 231 
744 N. Notre Dame Ave. 234-3541 
Stop by after the game for PIZZA 
-regular and stuffed 
Sandwiches Vegetarian 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 

seniors who start on the sideline against Penn State are effective leaders. 
"Not everybody can be first­team," Holtz said. "You've al­ways got to put the welfare of the team first and foremost. That's got to be No. 1, and that's difficult for some people to accept. 
"Some people really fight that, but it is a strong priority with us, and our senior class is great. I think the biggest thing this senior class has done is ac­cepted their role." 
They may not have the most glorious role, but without them, the Irish would not emerge from the tunnel Saturday as the No. 1 team in the nation. 
----------~-------------~ ---­
Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 The Observer page 17 

BP looking to defend IH title 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
Defending champ Breen­Phillips (6-2) and Lewis (6-2) will square off Sunday at 1 p.m. on the heralded Notre Dame Stadium grass in women's In­terhall football championship. 
Breen-Phillips advanced to the finals by edging Pasquerella West 8-6 in the semi-final round. After losing the first two games of the season, the Blitz stormed back to win six straight, including a 22-8 stampede over Lewis. 
"They'll certainly have the revenge factor, but our heart is really in this one," said Breen-Phillips captain and middle linebacker Karen Marsh. 
The Lewis Chickens made it to the title game after handing Farley its first defeat of the season, a 13-6 upset in the semis. In fact, this is the first time in six years that Farley has not played in the title game. 
"We just can't pinpoint ex­actly what we did wrong against Lewis, but I know their quarterback is just an in­credible athlete," said Farley captain Karen Lynch. 
Lynch is referring to Lewis senior Ellen Mouch who rushed for one touchdown and threw another in the semi-final game. Her versatility makes it tough for defenses to stop the Lewis option attack. 
The Breen-Phillips offense relies mainly on the explosivP­I'Unning of freshman tailback Kristy Alkidas. In the victory over Lewis, Alkidas gained an amazing 235 yards on the ground. 
"She's just really quick to the hole and can break away from defenses," said Lewis captain Christine Wallmeyer. "We've been gearing our practices toward containing her. Last time, she ran on the turf, so hopefully the grass will slow her down." The Blitz go into the championship game with­out the services of senior quar­terback Teresa Coombs, who is sick with a virus. No other player on the BP crew ever has taken a snap at quarterback this season. 
Dillon, Stanford in finals again 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
The playoffs have ended and the better teams have prevailed. In a rematch of last year's championship game, Dillon and Stanford will pass through the tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium Sunday to bat­tle for Interhall football brag­ging rights. 
Defending champion Dillon, a 24-0 winner over the Studs in last year's contest, takes a 5-1-1 record into the final game. 
Both teams will work with the game plan that has alowed them to reach the Fiesta Bowl of Interhall football. 
"We'll mix both the pass and the rush and play an extra tough defensive game," said Dillon captain Paul Drey. 
The Big Red does have the pressure of repeating, _but the Dillon players do not thmk that will be much of a factor. 
"The guys have a great atti­tude and we're ready to see if we can win it again," said Drey. . 
Injuries have plagued the B~g 
Red all season, and co-captam 
Gary O'Brien and Chris Poppy 
will remain out of action in the 
final game. 
"The extra week helped us 
nurse some of the injuries, but we still have two contributing players who won't be able to play in O'Brien and Poppy," said Drey. 
Stanford carries a 6-1 record into the game that has a great revenge factor in the eyes of at least one Stanford player. 
"There's definitely a fac­tor," said Stud running back Sean Gilboy. "Things went to­tally wrong for us last year. Not only did we play poorly, but some other things happened after the game that we didn't appreciate." 
The Studs, who have played in five of the last six champi­onship games, will use a power running game to try to win-· 
Flanner wins IH soccer 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The fans attending last night's interhall soccer championship game be­tween Flanner and Pangborn could not have dreamed of a better, more evenly matched game to end the soccer season. 
Flanner won this year's title game 2-1 at Moose Krause Stadium in a match decided after two scoreless five-minute overtimes and twelve penalty kicks. 
"They played well and are a really classy team," said Pangborn goalie and captain Derek Weldon. "They placed their (penalty) kicks well, and we didn't." 
Pangborn initiated the scoring 13 minutes into the first half on a John Titterton goal, assisted by Dave DiLuciano. 
Flanner knotted the score at 1-1 with five minutes left in the half on Jim Keglivitz's tally off a herculean throw­in by stopper Mike "Hooch" Hickey. 
The second half was score­
less as both the Flanner and 
Pangborn defenses played 
outstandingly. While Hickey 
controlled Flanner's back­
field, goalie Tom Maloney 
once again held the opposi­
tion in check. The defensive 
corps of Pangborn saw ex­
cellent performances in the 
middle by sweeper John 
McDevitt and center ful­
lback Dave Hensler. 
"Pangborn has a team which plays well together," said Flanner captain Bart Fox. "This is as good a team as we've faced all season." 
After two scoreless over­times, the game was set to be decided by the best out of five penalty kicks per team, and then sudden death penalty kicks if necessary. For the Flanner team, Jim Keglovitz, Sean Fieber and Mike Calvani made their penalty kicks while Ralph Falbo missed and Garth Be­hrje's shot was stopped by Pangborn goalie Derek Wel­don. 
It appeared as if Pangborn might go quietly when Jeff Laurenson's initial attempt was stopped by Flanner keeper Tom Maloney. But Ted Schloesser and John McDevitt made their kicks before Bill Tolany missed. Steve Woolford came through under tremendous pressure by making the final shot for Pangborn to even it at 3-3 in kicks. 
Thelong,arduousjourney seemed anti-climactic for the two .teams as the first shots in sudden death were the decisive scores. For Flanner, Vovo Weydenthal beat Weldon on a perfectly­placed ball in the upper right-hand corner. Appro­priately so, the Flanner victory was completed when goalie Tom Maloney saved the shot from Pangborn's Dave Hensler. 

Position available. Immediate opening. 
Gobble 
Gobble
Inquire within. 
Joe Paterno believes Notre Dame has lost its mystique! 
It's not an easy lile. In places !rom Chicago to Bangla­desh, you'll serve the poor and 
WRONG JOE.
rich, the aged and young, the educated and uneducated. The· lile demands prayer, hard work 
See it come alive at the CLUB 
and vision. The rewards are great ... even in this lile. You will have opportunitit•s to develop your potential. You will con­
FRI: 9:00 -2:00am 
tinue the work ol Christ. share His mission and respond to 
and 
world needs. There is no joy in 
SAT: Postgame to 2:00am
this world to compare with that. 
Seniors, this is your LAST home Gamel! 
By the witness ol our lives, Brothers serve in: Missions, Education, Social, Pastoral, 
GO IRISH! 
Health Care, Youth and Retreat Work, Farming, Maintenance and other trades and profes­sions that help to strengthen Christian Community. 
For more information, 
Contact: 

Broth~r Don Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460 

Notre Dame,lndiana 46556 
219/233-2191 

HOLYCROSS 
BROTHERS~ 



---~---­

page 18 The Observer November18-19 , 1988 
IRISH#EXTRA 
NCAA MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION 


Site: Jester Park in Des Moines, Iowa Last Year: Notre Dame finished 7th 
Irish overcome adversities to reach NCAA finals 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The Irish are bound for Des Moines, Iowa, where they will compete against the top 22 teams in the country in the 50th annual NCAA Cham­
pionships this 
Monday. 

Joe Plane
Notre Dame, ranked 15th in the latest NCAA poll, will be attending the meet for the second time in as many years, making it the first back-to-back appearance since 1965-1966. 
Last year the team finished an amazing seventh despite being seeded 21st for the race. This finish surprised the nation then, but people will be ready for the Irish this time. 
"Last year we just came out of the shadows and did it," said senior captain Dan Garrett. "It was almost easy be­cause we were the underdog and there was no pressure whatsoever. 
"If we could duplicate what we did last year, then I'd say we'd accom­plished more than last year." 
Another reason why it would be more of an accomplishment this year is be­cause the Irish have been swamped with injuries. They lost two of their top five runners, junior Mike O'Connor and sophomore Pat Kearns, losses that lead to a mid-season slump. 
The Irish started a downward slide at the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 7, finishing in a disappointing fourth. The team hit a season-low when it was trounced by USC Oct. 22. 
But the Irish staged a comeback, win­ning the MCC Championships Oct. 29 and coming up with a promising second-place finish in the District IV Championships last week, ensuring the team a bid to nationals. 
"When you have so few guys, and you lose two of your top five, you start to have doubts," said 14th-year Head Co­ach Joe Piane, who was named District IV Coach of the Year for the third straight year. "Apparently those injur-
Runners acknowledge roles 
Improving Cahill, Mulvey add depth to cross country 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame cross country team heads into its second consecutive NCAA Championships, a new kind of team has emerged. 
No longer are a few star at­heletes the key to the success of the team, but each and every runner plays a part in how well the team has done this season. 
The top five runners ex­pected to constitute the scoring at nationals are a solid group that knows all must run well in order to have a successful meet. 
Two competitors on this team who got off to shaky starts but have come on recently are senior Rick Mul­vey and sophomore Ryan Cahill. In the last two meets, these two have played a big part in lifting this team to the NCAA's and to a ranking of 15th in the latest NCAA poll. 
Their improvement began with the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships on Oct. 29. In the race, Mulvey finished 9th and Cahill lOth en route to an MCC title for the Irish. 
Last week at the District IV qualifying meet, Cahill and Mulvey continued their ascent by finishing 26th and 39th, respectively, ensuring Notre Dame a second-place district linish behind top-ranked Wis­consin and an Irish bid to na­tionals. 
These two have solidified the Irish running attack and made the Irish, depth-wise, one of the strongest in the country. 
Cahill, a native of Northbrook, Ill., struggled early but has come back in strong form. His 26th-place finish in 32:22.3 (10,000 meters) could not have come at a better time. 
"The kids all have confi­dence in Ryan Cahill, and that's really important," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "They learn it through practice that the kid can do it. They were just waiting for him to have that good race and he did on Saturday (at districts)." 
Cahill realizes his role in the upcoming national champion­ships. 
"I think that the pressure was so much greater at dis­tricts because we knew we all had to perform," said Cahill. "There was no margin for er­ror and I think that pressure 


Top Team Finishc:. in NCAA's 1st--1957. 2nd--1938. 44. 45. 3rd--1955, 63. 4th-·1956, 58, 59, 64. 5th--1940, 48, 50. 6th--1941' 42, 54. 7th--1987 8th·-1939. 9th--1947, 65. 10th--1946, 49, 60. 
Top Individual Finishes In NCAA's 1st--Greg Rice (1938), Oliver Hunter (1942). 

Dan Garrett 

Fifth-year senior captain (1964). 
2nd--Oliver Hunter (1940, 41 ), Bill Clark 
of Irish, All-American in 6th--Dan Garrett (1987). 
cross country and track, 7th--Bill Tully (1945), Benny Almaguer (1950). 
finished 6th individually at 9th--Anthony Maloney (1941), Bill Tully (1944), 
nationals last year. Best Frank Carver (1962), Mike Coffey (1964). 
Performance: 2nd at 10th--Steve Szumachowski (1938). 
Notre Dame Invitational, 23:52.4 (5 miles). 

ies started a downward cycle. 
"I think the team finally realized at USC that they had to stop feeling sorry for themselves and just go out there and compete, doing what they're capa­ble of doing. You might call Notre Dame cross country the phoenix of cross country because they were dead and buried, and they sure came back." 
One factor that has recharged the Irish is the team's depth. Tom O'Rourke, Ryan Cahill and Rick Mul­vey have effectively reinforced the one­two punch of All-American hopefuls Ron Markezich and Dan Garrett. 
"We've got a solid group, and that's what it takes to run well at a big meet like the NCAA's," said Piane. 
Making it to nationals is an ac­complishment in itself. Most people do not realize there are 275 Division I cross country teams, which is more than the number of teams in either football or basketball. 
"Making it to nationals is half the thrill," said Ryan Cahill, "especially after all the adversities we've been through. It is actually more gratifying this year to be going." 
"I think you've got to give credit to the kids," said Piane. "These guys made a com­mitment two years ago that they were going to do it last year and they did, and they made a com­mitment right after the race that they were going to 


do it again." 
The Irish 

Tom O'Rourke
will not have an easy task at the NCAA's. Defending national champion Arkansas will be at­tending, as well as top-ranked Wiscon­sin, Dartmouth, Providence, Texas, Oregon, Northern Arizona, Iowa State, Penn State, and Tennessee. 
helped. 
"For nationals I'm not think­ing I've got to finish in a certain spot. I've got my goals, Tom (O'Rourke) has his goals, and Rick (Mulvey) has his goals, but if we can all reach our goals together, it will be great for the team." 
Rick Mulvey, a fifth-year senior from Westfield, Wis., has come back from an early­season injury to contribute to a team plagued by injuries (see article above). 
The addition of Mulvey there­fore helps the team in three ways--as an injury gap-fiiler, as a valuable fifth-man, and as a seasoned leader. 
"He's not a rah rah-type guy," said Piane. "He just goes out there and does the job. He works very, very hard, and is as good a fifth-man as anyone. The fifth-man is usually the weakness of most teams, but to us he's definitely an asset." 
Mulvey's dedication to his sport also rubs off on his team­mates, which is another impor­tant asset. 
"Rick works harder than anyone I've ever met," said Cahill. "It has rubbed off on me and Tom (O'Rourke)." 


Running together 
I he Observer I E.G. Bailey Dan Garrett and Ron Markezich not only run together during the race--sometimes they finish together. They tied for first both in the National Catholic Invitational and in a dual meet with Geor­getown. 
Team Leaders 
Senior co-leader of team along with Garrett, con­sistently finishing among the top of Irish all year, finished 48th at nationals last year. Best Perfor­mance: 1st at MCC Championships, 24:01 


Tom n•EI.....,...... 
Junior, trained hard this summer and has been a strong and consistent runner all year, first time at nationals. Best Perfor­mance: 5th at MCC Championships, 25:11 (8000 meters). 

Ryan Cahill Sophomore, after lack­luster start has come on strong recently, finished 1 06th at nationals last year. Best Performance: 26th at District IV Cham­pionship, 32:22.3 (10,000 meters). 

Rick Mulvey Fifth-year senior, injured earlier in season, steadily came back to contribute to Irish post-season hopes, first time at nation· als. Best Performance: 9th at MCC Champion­ships, 25:21 Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 
CAMPUS 
Friday 
4 p.m. International Business Seminars with Dr. Terry Clark, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Sunday 
p.m. Notre Dame Preprofessional society will present a short video and discussion by Dr. T. McLoughlin, psychiatrist1leurologist, entitled "Brain Imaging and the Futures of Psychiatry and Neurology," in Room 123 Nieuwland. 
DINNER MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grilled Reuben  Tacos  
Southern Fried Chicken  Batter Fried Fish  
Seafood Newburgh-Shells Vineyard Veg &Cheese  Monterey Bake Deli Bar  

COMICS 
Bloom County 

Jerks 
BOB --;N,_J~ ~-'":'IN '5 P U Z0-_~_?A 'i'__ -~--~ i<E\IiN 1-\AS A [)!LEMMA: ONE PATH TAKE:'> Hlfv1: TO CI-\E(KI"\ARKE[l c.OUR~E Sl~NUPS AN HOUR I LAH, THE OTHER PATH TAI<E~ HlN\ ~.II\41Liif TO HELL. CAN YOU HELP HIM OUT? 
~ 
B05 AND KtV A.~E" TRYINC:. TO THINK UP 
A 3-LETTER. 'vJOR.I:l 
F-OR. 's.'(.R." CAN YOU 
HELP rHE"M? 

The Observer page 19 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Aperture 5 Colombian city 9 Hurled 
13 Young salmon 14 Deputy 16 Woody's son 11 Lotion 
ingredient 18 "Of course!" 19 Enlarge, in a 

way 20 With 47 Across, 
a quote 23Gala 24 Caviar 25Ebb 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

46 Utah's lily 

47 See 20 Across 
SSACassini 

56 Pedro's January 
57 Helen's new 

home 58 Butter's rival 59 Discourage 60 Detest 61 Engrossed 62 Sugar sources 63 Greek mil. group 
ofW.W.II 
DOWN 
1 George Washington, e.g. 

2 French composer 3 Flat follower 4 Large frond bearer 5 Would-be wave ruler 6 Type of type 7 Riga native B Move gradually 9 Library study space 
10 Sector 11 Croat or Serb 12 Heavy reading 15 Bring up­
(trail) 
28 "The Mill on " 
33 Then, to Jeanne 34 Bundle 35 F.D.R. agcy. 36 First name of 
author of quote 37 Bart or Brenda 38 Plaster 39 Past 40 Endure 41 Sky Comb. 
form 42 Pause 44 Author of the 
quote 45 Cato's man 


Berke Breathed 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
BOt?, IS TR.'fiNt; TO 
THINK OF A GOOD DATe THAT WONT INVOLVe 
!S'A-TINb, DICIIIIKING Qf;?. A 
1 
MOVIE. (AN 'fOLJ f-\ELP? 
FI':.HING ~ TR.I VIAL.. P\JR5UfT '? LHI\IIitoc. i hE GIL I~ MY CAR? SNIPE HUt-JT?" 
HAIR. COUNTtN61 
DI5C.U~.5 WORMS·~ 
ON :"ll.3f'I<;NV 
~" 


~... 
.... 
• 


_.r 
46-throat 47 Wis. county 48 Actress Raines 49 Ooze so Chemical 
endings 51 Bristle 52 An inland sea 53 Whit 54 Bar orders 
Gary Larson 
21 Charpoys 22 Belly laugh 25 Indian chief 26 Praise at a 
funeral 27 Some salmon 28 Banquo. e.g. 29 Pack of camels 30 Mountain 
nymph 31 Fish catcher 
The Far Side 

32 Expensive barbershop 34 Copy, for short 37 Very hungry 
38 "-Banshee," 1970 Price movie 
40 Child direction 41 Egg on 43 "-sixpence" 44 Outside, in Lyon 

C1MO Chronicle FMtu,... Dlatrlt)uted Un"'-rMI Pr..-Syndicate ll·llot~ 
, 
... 

I I 
• J 
1 
1 
I I 

;;, 

Friday: Jagged Edge Saturday: Prizzi's Honor Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15,$2 
..----------------------------~-~~ 
Sports
oa e 20 Weekend Edition, November18-19 , 1988 
Basketball teams host international squads 
~-~ ~---------------
Zadar club returns to face men's team 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame basketball team, with a highly-touted freshman class and a new style of play, begins its schedule with an exhibition game against Zadar of Yugoslavia tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 

In Zadar, the Irish will be facing a club team entering the stretch run of an American tour. Zadar held a 3-3 record before Thursday's game at Drake, defeating Youngstown State, Central Michigan and Bowling Green while losing to Kent State, Valparaiso and Toledo. 
Notre Dame defeated Zadar 120-81 in a pre­season game last year. Zadar returns four starters from that squad, and also has added 7-3, 265-pound center Stoyko Vrankovic. 
"Their center is their (Yugoslavia's) Olym­pic center." said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "He's the guy that did very, very well over at Korea. He's got a slight sprained ankle, and he hasn't played. They're saving him for us because that's why we wanted them to come over, to bang our front line a little." 
Zadar's top returning players include 6-10 center Stipe Sarlija and 6-3 guard Darko Pahlic, 
see ZADAR, page 16 
Madson a lifesaver at goalie 
Hockey team to meet familiar opponent in Lake Forest 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey -team (3-5-2) hopes to rebound from a winless weekend at Air Force when it takes on Lake Forest in a home-and-home se­ries this weekend. 
The Irish will play host to the Foresters Friday at 8:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. The series will culminate at Lake Forest Saturday night at 7:30. 
"It's a big, early-season se­
" 
ries for us," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. ''Certainly, we need to experience the joys of winning again. We expect that this is going to be an exciting hockey weekend." 
Notre Dame owns a 16-7-1 all­time record against Lake For­est, which returns a number of starters from last year's squad. The '87-'88 Foresters dropped all five matches against the Irish, but never by more than two goals. 
"Lake Forest had a good team last year," said Schafer. "Fortunately, we played them five times and came out on top all five. But they were close games. I expect the same again this year." 
Notre Dame is coming off a weekend at Air Force which saw the Irish come away with a tie and a loss. The Falcons exploited the Irish defense for 94 shots on goal during the two games. Schafer points to the in­experience of the defensive corps as one reason for this bombardment. 
"We're a young, inexperi­enced hockey team," com­mented Schafer. "We've made plenty of mistakes already this season. Fortunately, Lance Madson has been in the goal to cover up for some of our mis­takes." 
see MADSON, page 14 


Women's fastbreak wears out Mexico 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team previewed the two weapons it hopes will carry the Irish to a NCAA tournament berth in an exhibition game last night at the Joyce ACC. 
Notre Dame defeated the Mexican National Team 80-52 Thursday by building a lead with a well-orchestrated fast break, then running away with the game in the second half behind a dominat­ing inside game. 
The Mexican team did not go down without a fight. The pesky visitors displayed their typical up-tempo, good-shot style of play characteristic of international teams to stay close through most of the first half. 
"They're scrappy and unorthodox," said Irish point guard Karen Robinson, "but they get the job done." 
The game was tied at 28-28 with five minutes remaining in the opening half when Robinson slipped past three defenders on the break to give her team the edge. She then repeated the scene moments later with another take-on-the-world move, and Notre Dame didn't look back. 
The spunky sophomore hit two more buckets 
see MEXICO, page 14 

Big Four ticket sales set 
By BRIAN O'GARA 
gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Stu­Sports Writer dents will receive only one ticket per ID.
Tickets for the second an­The tickets will cost $25nual Big Four Classic at the and will be good for both the Hoosier Dome in In­Notre Dame-Kentuckydianapolis on Dec. 3, featur­game at 4:45 p.m. and theing the Notre Dame men's Indiana-Louisville matchup, basketball team battling which begins at 2 p.m. 
Kentucky and Indiana Louisville is ranked thirdmeeting Louisville, will go in the nation in the Associ­
on sale to students on Mon­ated Press pre-season poll.
day, Nov. 21. 

Notre Dame, Kentucky and Ticket sales will continue Indiana all are "also receiv­
through Wednesday, Nov. 
ing votes." 
2Z. 

Earlier ticket sales have In last year's inaugural been for the general public Big Four Classic, Kentucky only. defeated Indiana 82-76 in 
Students may present up overtime, and Notre Dame to four student identification trounced Louisville 69-54 in cards at the ticket office in front of 43,601 fans. 
.. 
Seniors playing big role on and off field 
Being a senior in your last home football game 
eans a number of things at Notre Dame: 
It means you've played the best teams in college 
ootball and survived. 

It means you've seen "Wake Up the Echoes" and heard the "Victory March" more times than you care to remember. 
It means you can hold your helmet high in front of the Notre Dame students when it's over--win or lose--because you've given them four years of your best. 
And for many seniors, Saturday's final home game against Penn State marks the last time you'll have to stand on the Notre Dame sideline and cheer on the underclassman who has swiped your starting position. 
Wait a minute. Shouldn't we forget that last one? Isn't this a time to talk about nostalgia and the thought of celebrating four years in an Irish uniform with a national championship? Shouldn't we forget the anguish for now? 
The seniors already have taken care of that. 
They may not have forgotten the anguish. It's no secret that former starters like Flash Gordon, Ned Bolcar, Corny Southall and Tom Gorman were dis­appointed in their new back-up roles. 
But you would never know it from watching them on game day. 
"Flash Gordon, for a variety of reasons, didn't play a couple of football games," Head Coach Lou Holtz said of his fifth-year senior defensive end, who has been passed on the depth chart by freshman Arnold Ale and sophomore Andre Jones. "Did he like it? No. I sat down with him in my office and he wasn't a bit happy. 

Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 
"But you could never tell Flash Gordon wasn't happy except in my office, and that was only after I called him in to talk about it. That's the type of person Flash Gordon is." 
That'"s also typical of the attitude taken on by a number of the other Irish seniors who are on the field less often than they were last year. 
Bolcar was named CBS television's Defensive Player of the Year in 1987, but now ranks third in playing time among fellow inside linebackers Wes Pritchett and Michael Stonebreaker. Gorman looked to be a starting defensive tackle, but was moved to the second-team offensive line when he returned from an early-season shoulder injury. Southall has been passed by junior Pat Terrell on the depth chart at free safety. 
"It was a big disappointment," Gorman said of the move to the sideline. "But you can't argue with success. The coaches thought it was best for the team, and you can't argue with 9-0." 
"I do wish I played a bit more," added Bolcar, who said he will consider applying for a fifth year to use his final year of eligibility. "I'd be a liar if I said I didn't want to play more, but I'm proud to be a captain and to contribute to an undefeated team." 
Southall, like Bolcar, has been seeing his share of playing time despite no longer being a starter. Time (no cliche intended) eases the pain. 
But sitting in the No. 1 position in the national polls also can heal the wounds of being No. 2 or 3 on the depth chart. 
"We're No. 1 in the country, and when you're winning, it makes things easier to accept," said Southall. 
But the attitude works the other way as well. 
Yes, winning fosters understanding. But under­standing also fosters winning, and that's why the 
see SENIORS, page 16 

.. 




