IACCENT: Sleep time precious IVIEWPOINT: Does Crime Stoppers pay? 



VOL. XXI, NO. 113 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

100 free; rebel pact begins 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua ­
The Sandinista government freed 100 political prisoners Sunday under an amnesty pro­gram, fulfilling the first part of a cease-fire pact with Nicaraguan rebels. 
Interior Minister Tomas Borge called the gesture "pos­sibly the beginning of the end of the war." 
Tearful family members embraced their loved ones who were released from the Zona Franca jail on the outskirts of Managua. But amid the joy was an air of doubt. 
"They say I don't have anyth­ing to fear," said Feliz Pedro Chavaria Gomez, 32, holding a plastic sack containing his belongings. "I'm happy, but I hope it doesn't fail." 
Chavaria said he was ar­rested in 1980 and charged with being a counter-revolutionary. 
Cesar Augusto Flores Mireando, 25, was arrested more than two years ago in Managua. "The majority of the peasants here are innocent," he said. 
The release of the prisoners was the first step in an amnesty plan the Sandinistas agreed to Wednesday when they signed a cease-fire accord with leaders of the U.S.-backed rebels known as Contras. The sides declared a truce March 21 and a a 60-day cease-fire is to begin Aprill. 
In another development, President Daniel Ortega sug­gested the United Nations send a multi-national peacekeeping 
see REBELS, page 3 
. . . as US troops leave Honduras 
Associated Press 
PALMEROLA AIR BASE, Honduras--Helicopters carry­ing tired, dirt-smeared U.S. soldiers swarmed back to this military base Sunday and the troopers prepared to return home. 
"We accomplished what we came here to do--put the Nicaraguans back in their place," Sgt. Matthew West said as he climbed out of a helicop­ter at the end of a flight from training exercises in Juticalpa, about 40 miles from the Honduran-Nicaraguan border. 
"Now we just want to get clean," said West, 21, from Dal­las. 
Soldiers from the 82nd Airbrone Division based at Fort Bragg, N.C., are expected to begin returning to the United States at about 5 p.m. EST 
. ..t.

Monday. They will be the first to arrive home after an 11-day training exercise meant as a show of U.S. military strength in the Central America region. 
.....

Units of the 7th Light In­fantry Division headquartered at Fort Ord., Calif., also were <ff'­llown here in the show of force. 
President Reagan sent the ... 3,200 soldiers to Honduras on March 17-18 after Honduran ' ·~; ·1'·.. President Jose Azcona Hoyo ~.,Jt 
The Observer I Usa M.L. D'Anzt

asked for help. Azcona said an estimated 2,000 Nicaraguan Sailing, Sailing ... troopers had entered Honduran 
Members of the Sailing Club raise anchor on St. Joseph's Lake. Now that the ice has melted, such activities as sailing are once again possible 
see TROOPS, page 3 
on the Notre Dame campus. 
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 1988 

Three Arabs shot in the West Bank 
Associated Press 
MEITHALUN, Occupied West Bank-Israel said its troops shot three Arabs in the West Bank on Sunday after Palestinians attacked soldiers with iron bars, but villagers ac­cused the soldiers of firing at cars carrying wounded. 
Israeli soldiers killed a 
fourth Palestinian in another 
West Bank town while trying to 
rescue an Israeli tour bus that 
blundered into the Arab com­
munity. 
Left-leaning Labor Party 
ministers, meanwhile, accused 
Prime Minister Yitzhak 
Shamir of the rightist Likud 
block at Sunday's Cabinet ses­
sion of exaggerating the suc­
cess of his U.S. tour that ended 
Tuesday, Israel radio reported. 
They said the proof came in 
U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz's meeting Saturday in Washington with two univer­sity professors linked to the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
Shultz met with Edward Said 
and Ibrahim Abu-Lughud, 
American citizens who belong 
to the PLO's legislative arm. 
The meeting prompted 
protests from Israel, which 
views the PLO as an illegal ter­
rorist group. 
Sunday's deaths raised to 118 
the number of Palestinians 
killed inr15 weeks of violent 
protests against Israel's 20­
year occupation of the West 
Bank and Gaza Strip, accor­
ding to U.N. figures. One Is­
raeli soldier has been killed. 
Israel seized the territories in the 1967 Middle East war. 

Show to raise money
Aging problems studied 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-­Americans may be living longer, but for many people those extra years bring only ad­ditional disease, suffering and expense, said a prominent re­searcher on aging. 
Dr. Jacob A. Brody, address­ing a symposium on diet and aging Sunday, credited a decline in heart disease with a sharp drop in the death rate since the late 1960s. 
But he told researchers gath­ered at Notre Dame the growing number of elderly people will mean dramatic in­creases in disabling conditions that afflict old people. 
"What we really need to be concerned about in living longer is, are we leading healthier lives?" he asked. 
For each extra year of healthy life, Americans are en­during three to four extra years of bad health, said Brody, pro­fessor of epidemiology and dean of the School of Public Health at the University of Il­linois in Chicago. 
"We've got to work on that," he said. "That's the weight, the sense of fear of growing old, and the burden society has in taking care of (the aged.)" 
Brody delivered the keynote address to a three-day meeting of researchers gathered to report findings on the effect of reduced calorie intake on rats. While a link between reduced diet and longer life was es­tablishd 50 years ago, research conducted through Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory may shed light on why, says 
for South
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of 
By LIZ PORTER
the laboratory. 
News Staff 
Preliminary results indi­cated rats on a reduced diet not About fifteen acts willonly lived longer but developed raise money Tuesday for St. 
significantly fewer diseases as­Hedwig's Outreach Pro­sociated with aging. Research­gram, through the Sopho­ers hope the findings may lead more Class Gong Show. 
to new understanding of the ef­The program providesfects of diet and aging in tutoring, Saturday arts andhumans. 
crafts programs, and field"We're doing something trips to sporting events for 5 very right, and we don't know to 13 year-old youths fromhow to handle the implica­the South Bend area. Thesetions," said Brody. "Are we youths come from singlereally doing badly? Not in com­parent families or fromparison to the rest of tht: families which lack strongwJrld." 
parental support. 
Although the United States "A lot of the (youths) inlags behind several industrial program have a great dealcountries in total life expec­of responsibility placed upon them at home. It's nice for
see AGING, page 4 
Bend kids 
them to have a chance to get away from that for awhile " said Betsy Joseph, the show's co-producer. 
Comedy and talent acts from around campus will perform, as well as one by the children from the pro­gram. Judged by Assistant Professor Dan Lapsley, senior Laurie Bink, and May Lee Johnson, director of the Outreach Program, the win­ner will receive $100. 
The show is scheduled for 8 p.m. Tuesday in Washing­ton Hall. Tickets are $2 and available at the Sophomore Class office or at Washing­ton Hall the night of the show. 
page 2 
In Brief 
James P. Kohn, professor of chemical engineering, has been named a recipient of the Donald L. Katz Award by the Gas Processors Association "in recognition of out­standing accomplishments in gas processing research and technology, and for excellence in engineering education.'' Kohn is the third recipient of this award. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Father Michael Himes will present a lecture en­titled "Re-thinking the Church: Women and Ministry in the Church of the Future" at 8:30 p.m. in Pasquerilla East's chapel lounge tonight. Refreshments will be served after a general discussion. Mass will be held at 10:30 p.m. 
-The Observer 

JPW Chairperson applications must be sub­mitted to the Office of Student Activities no later than Wednesday, March 30. Applications can be picked up at the Office of Student Activities in 315 LaFortune. -The Observer 
Career and Placement Serv~ces is sponsoring a presentation by Paul Reynolds .entitled "Junio,~s: ~repar­ing for and Planning an Effective Job Search tomght at 7 in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Juniors of all majors are encouraged to attend. This talk will be repeated Tues­day evening at the same time and in the same location. 
-The Observer 

Mock Convention '88 now has available a copy of the platform and rules. Delegates can read the two at the Reserve Room of the Library. If there are any questions about the platform call Michelle at 283-4172 or the rules call Michael at 283-1469. -The Observer 
The Equestrian club is meeting tonight at 9:30 in Room 222 of the Library. T-shirts and sweatshirts will be sold. The horseshow and jackets will be discussed. Every­one is welcome to attend. Call Liz at 283-2934 with any questions. -The Observer 
Steve Daley, candidate for Governor of Indiana, will speak to College Democrats and all other interested stu­dents and faculty today at noon in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Visions 3, the third of the English Department­sponsored student fiction magazines, is soliciting manuscripts for its 1988 edition. Please submit two copies (with the author's name on a removable first page) to the English Department office in 356 O'Shaughnessey, by today at 4 p.m. Questions can be directed to Associate Professor William O'Rourke in the English Department. 
-The Observer 

Ukrainian Christian Millennium Celebrations begin tomorrow evening at Notre Dame with a free public lecture by world-reknowned theologian Jaroslav Pelikan of Yale University. His topic will be "A Church Between East and West: The Millennium of the Ukrainian Experi­ment." The event will be held at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
SMC English Department will be sponsoring a pre-gregistration party tonight at 6:30 in the Chameleon Room of Haggar Center. Coffee and doughnuts will be served. -The Observer 
A $100.00 prize will be given for the best essay on the history of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's written by a student (graduate or undergraduate) currently enrolled in either institution. There is no requirement as to length. Entries must be submitted by April 18 to Professor Thomas J. Schlereth, Chair of the Committee on the History of the University, in the Department of American Studies. -The Observer 

DeBign Editor . . . .. . . . . . . . . . Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Layout........ .. .. .. Kerri Owens DeBign Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allison Cocks Accent Copy Editor ....... Robyn Simmons TypeBetters ............................. Mike Buc Accent Layout.. .. .. .. .. .. Annette Rowland .......................................... Jim Mercurio Typiats..................... ... .. .. .. .. Jenn Conlon New• Editor.................. Chris Bednarski ........................................... Janet Herold Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . Matt Gallagher ND Day Editor ................ Beth Cornwell Sport• Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey SMC Doy Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Viewpoint Copy Editor ............ Syl Flood Photographer...................... Lisa D'Anzi 
Tile Olleener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S<IO per year (S25 per semester) by writina Tile Qlleener, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile .u.odaled Preu. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
--~ ~-~------~-~--------. 
The Observer Monday, March 28, 1988 
Want Respect? Don't work in a restaurant 
If you want to retain any respect for your fellow human beings, never, never work in a restaurant. 
I worked for about a year-and-a-half at a place called Friendly's --sort of a cross be­tween a Denny's and a Dairy Queen. I went in young and innocent, eager to do my best to serve the customer. I left a distorted, bitter misanthrope, thirsting for vengance, wanting to hurt and maim those who had wronged me. 
I am firmly convinced that people undergo a complete attitude change when they enter a restaurant. Somebody may normally be an upright, decent citizen. It doesn't make any dif­ference. As soon as they enter a restaurant, they become a cruel, domineering tyrant, treat­ing the staff as if they were chattel. 
When we were waiting to close, for example, there would inevitably be two people holding us up, sitting over a single cup of coffee each for a half-hour. 
We had ways to subtly give them the hint, "Leave NOW!!" 
The gate at the front of the store would be lowered halfway. We would shut off all of the lights in the place except in the section they were sitting in. The rest of the tables would be cleaned off and set up for the next day. 
Ifthis didn't work, the entire staff would stand and pathetically stare at the offenders, trying and announced, in an obnoxious, nasal voice, to look as pitiable as possible. The dishboy "I want ice cream!" would go up to them and say, "Excuse me, "I'm sorry," I said (even though I wasn't), ma'am, but are you done with that fork and "but you'll have to wait until I serve the people plate? I have nothing else to do right now, so in front of you." I'd like to wash them." "NO!" she screamed. "It's MY BIRTHDAY, 

Even this usually didn't work. They would and I want ICE CREAM! ! " just keep on sitting over their coffee, saying The entire time, her mother was standing be­things like, "Gee, Matilda, remember that time hind her, a small, approving smile upon her when I got 20 percent off that purple flower face. "I must be bringing my daughter up right. print at Bloomingdale's?" She's learning how to be a demanding, rude, 
Almost as bad as this was having to serve thoughtless customer. I'm so proud!" the take-out line. The price of ice cream cones Kids weren't the worst customers, though. was raised from 96 cents to $1.01, but people What we all dreaded at Friendly's was the in­weren't used to it yet, and so they would give vasion from the Old Folk's Home. me a dollar for their cone. A typical order would go something like this: 
"I'm sorry, but I need one more cent," I'd "Give me a grilled cheese sandwich, with one say. slice of wheat and one slice of white. Don't use too much butter cooking it --about half a pat. 
"Oh, okay," they'd reply, and proceed to give And use Swiss and Provolone cheese--no me a fifty dollar bill, so I'd have to make $48.99 American." in change. Or they would get a hamburger, eat all of it 
People have been trained since childhood to except one bite, and then complain, "This is treat restaurant employees like pond scum. undercooked. I want a refund." Once, when I was serving take-out, a seven-Even leaving the restaurant they would get year-old girl was having a birthday party. She in their licks. could have gotten something to go at the table, They would whine at the cashier, "The bill but that was too easy. Instead, she went to the says the coffee costs 50 cents, but I only drank take-out line. There were nine people in line in half a cup. I should only have to pay 25 cents!" front of her, but she pushed her way to the And the people who sat at the counter! I could counter, shoved her grubby little face forward, tell you some stories ... 
...................~-~-~~~·8;~-~d;~· .............._... I Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
Today_is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and wrsh her a happy one. By the way I Laura,we do expect to see you dancrng LaFOrtUne
11 '
on pool tables tomght. 


SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Haven't found a job yet? Want to take a year off before Law School, Med School or Grad School? Interested in a career in law? A Chicago litigation firm specializing in the medical and legal aspects of asbestos litigation will be interviewing all interested candidates for a legalttnedical internship: April 11 at Saint Mary's College April 12 at Notre Dame Please sign up for an interview with your Career and Placement Center or send letter or resume to: Terrence M. Johnson, Esq. The Monadnock Building 53 West Jackson, Suite 1650 Chicago, IL 60604 1-312-922-4022 

Monday, March 28, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
GSU elects new officers 
By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
Vidor Krebs's uncontested ticket was elected March 9 to lead the Graduate Student Union. 
Krebs will serve as president with vice-president Jeffrey Smart, secretary Linda Taylor, and information officer Brian Rosmaita. 
Mark Borden, originally slated as social officer, backed out and will be replaced soon, Krebs said. 
Krebs said one of his main objectives is to increase the 1,346 graduate students' in­volvement with the rest of the Notre Dame commmunity. 
Several projects will soon begin to accomplish this, he said. Committees working with the undergradute student gov­ernment will plan and organize campus-wide cultural and so­cial activities, he added. 
Krebs also said he hopes to continue the Travel Grant pro­gram, which helps graduate students pay their travel ex­penses to academic conferences. 
"That's where most of our money goes," said outgoing vice-president Adria Colletti. "An important part of our edu­cation is going to these confer­ences and presenting your re­search and meeting other people in your field." 
Sixty-seven percent of the graduate students' $20 activity fee goes to the travel grant pro­gram, she said. 
'The Union, however, has problems motivating students to get involved because they have so much work to do, Krebs said. "One of the reasons is that grad students don't live on campus," he said, "Obviously the needs of grad students are different." 
About 33 percent of Notre Dame's graduate students are married while Brownson Hall and Saint Joseph's Hall are the only dorms which house graduate students. 
"Obviously, more housing has to be available that is closer so that (graduate stu­dents) are not so far from campus." said Krebs. 
In the long run, Krebs said he plans to start graduate stu­dent committees for campus ministry, social concerns, wo­men and minority issues, housing, fund raising and inter­national graduate students. 
Krebs also added that he would like to revitalize and ex­pand the programs created in the Graduate Student Union's early years, after its concep­tion in 1969. "Grad students were a minority and they needed a way to fit into the rest of the community,'' said Krebs. 
Security Beat 
MARCH 25 
II :55 a.m.-A Sorin Hall resident reported that his wallet was stolen while attending a party at the Campus View apartments during the last week of September, 1987. His loss esti­mated at $15. 
3:54 p.m.-A Grace Hall resident reported that his car was vandalized while parked in the 02 Lot sometime between 5 p.m. on 3/23 and 2 p.m. on 3/24. His loss is $30. 
6: II p.m.-A resident of Howard Hall reported that the license plates were stolen from her car while it was parked in the B I Lot. The larceny occurred between 6 p.m. on 3/24 and 6 p.m. on 3/25. Her loss is $243. 
7:15 p.m.-A South Bend resident reported that his car was broken into and his radar detector taken while parked at the Eck Pavilion sometime between 5:30 and 7:00p.m. His loss is estimated. at $550. 
MARCH 26 
3:26 a.m.-While on routine patrol, a Notre Dame Security officer discov­ered that Stepan Center had been ille­gally entered. 
6 a.m. Notre Dame Security was called to assist St. Joseph County Police investigate vandalism of property at Azars restaurant on US 31. Four ND students were apprehended by County Police. The students were transported back to campus by NO Security. 
MARCH 27 
2:30 a.m.-During the Nazz Band Competition, an altercation erupted between members of one of the com­peting bands and a Student Union Board official. The band refused to stop playing after the time limit was up. One of the musicians made obscene remarks and then threw a microphone at a SUB representative when she disconnected the sound sys­tem. There were no injuries. 
What if you 
don't get into 
the schOol of 
your choice? 
Ofcourse, you may get into some other school, but why settle?Prepare for the admissions exam yotire facing-be it SAT, LSAT, GMAT, GRE, MCAT, or others-with the best test prep company. Stanley H. Kaplan. 
For nearly 50 years, Kaplan's test-taking tech­niques have prepared over one million students, boosting their scoring power and test confidence. 
So call Kaplan. Why go to just any school, when you can go to the one you want? 
I KAPLAN 
STANUY H. KAPlAN IDUClflONll QNTIR LTD. 
THE WORLD'S LEAD£NG TEST PREP ORGANIZATION 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
**ALL NOTRE DAME CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS** 
Registration materials are now available for you to: 
1. 
REGISTER for the 1988-89 ACADEMIC YEAR-­Registration is MANDATORY to be an officially recognized organization on campus. 

2. 
APPLY FOR FUNDING. 

3. 
APPLY FOR FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND. 

4. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT table registration. 


DEADLINE FOR REGISTERING YOUR ORGANIZATION IS: FRIDAY, APRIL 8 BY 4:00P.M. pick up packets in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Student Center 
der an amnesty law the Na­tional Assembly approved by a 
continued from page 1 margin of 82-2 Saturday night. The law could result in the force to the Nicaraguan­release of about 3,300 political Honduran border to stabilize prisoners jailed since the San­the area. dinistas seized power in a 1979 
Of the prisoners freed Sun­revolution that overthrew day, 24 were workers arrested President Anastasio Somoza. for joining illegal strikes. There was little opposition to 
The release was ordered un-the amnesty bill. The Sandinis-
Rebels 
~!!!!!!!!!S!!!!!t!!!!!!!!!u!!!!!!!!!!d!!!!!!!!!e!!!!!!!!!n!!!!!!!!!!t!!!!!!!!!A~rt~E~x~h~.~~!!!!!!~ now-disbanded National 
Participants must be a N[)!SMC stu dent Only flat works accepted (drawings, design, photography, paintings) with a maximum size 3x3' The Exhibit will be shown at La Fortune Student Center April 6-9 Two Purchase Prizes of $200 each will be awarded 

plications will be given Mon. March 28 through Thurs March 31 at the 
.Ce

Student Government Offi Special thanks to the Alumni Office and the Snite Museum for their donations tO the purchase prize awards. 
lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 
tas hold 61 seats in the 96­member assembly. 
According to the legislation, another undisclosed number of Contra rebels taken prisoner during the six-year civil war will be released at an un­specified later date. The gov­ernment also plans a general review of the cases of about 1,800 members of Somoza's 
Guard, Ortega said. 
Speaking to reporters Satur­
day night, Ortega said the 
former guardsmen all have 
been accused of human rights 
violations or crimes against 
humanity-such as the indis­
criminate shooting of civilians­
-during the one-year revolution 
that brought the Sandinistas to 
power. 
Many of them have been sen­tenced to the maximum penalty of 30 years imprison­ment, Ortega said. The downfall of Somoza, a rightist pro-American strongman, ended 42 years of iron-fisted rule by his family, usually en­forced by the National Guard. 
Troops 
continued from page t 
territory in the Bocay region. 
Honduran military officials said the invading Sandinistas were after a major supply 
depot the u.s.-backed
Nicaraguan rebels maintained just inside Honduras. American soldiers said their mission was a success. 
"Our presence here definitely made a difference," said Sgt. Dale Taylor, 22, of Red Springs, N.C. "It proves how serious we are about what we are doing and that we can get here in 18 hours if the need arises." 
The Reagan administration called the military action a training exercise, but it also was meant as a warning to the Sandinistas against further ac­tion inside Honduran territory. 
And despite a few tense days during which the Honduran air force twice bombed Sandinista positions in the Bocay region of western Olancho province, the 
U.S. soldiers were involved only in training maneuvers. 
The Sandinistas, while claiming their soldiers had never entered Honduran terri­tory, withdrew their troops from the area about two days after the American troops ar­rived. 

Monday, March 28, 1988

page 4 The Observer 
Show creates awareness 
Sociology club hosts 
because I like to show people a group ... our purpose is· to need to do it voluntarily, not in about m countr , " said help integrate peo le." a classroom, she said. 
~onday, M~rch. 28 ;::~""'·*
~.IJII' *~ L1brary Aud1tonum f?lk~©/li@(f))'OO
the 1980 figure of about 1 mil­The rats that were fed 30 per­
Aging 
Domestic Policy Debate
cent less lived an average of 38 continued from page 1 tures, a common and debilitat­months, an increased of nearly lion. The number of hip frac­
7p.m.
tancy, it leads the world in life ing occurrence in the aged, will 20 percent above normal, ac­
Featuring Panelists:
expectancy for people 75 years double in the same period to cording to study results. and older, he said. reach about 500,000 cases a That success bears a cost, he year. 
lbxo'sHair 

Dr. Perry Arnold 
said. "Right now, we're struck by 
Head of Notre Dame Government 
The number of elderly people the price," he said. "We have suffering from mental il­to pick up the tab." 
Department
Ii-~~
·.

lnesses, including Alzheimer's 
disease, will grow from 2.5 mil-In the four-year Lobund 
I' 

Mr. Patrick Pierce
lion to about 5 million in the study, all the rats ate the same year 2020, he said. Nursing food--a high-fiber, low-fat 
531 N. Micltigon Sl:, 

Saint Mary's Government Department
home admissions will increase vegetarian diet--but some wer~ 
Phone lJJ-4957

to about 4 million in 2020 from given less. 
~H~~;;:;:;~~ 
subcontractors would like to extend 
• 
a sincere 

-THANK YOU 
UNIVERSITY FOODSERVtCE
NOTRE DAME

tO-an diners at North Dining Hall for their 

I 

cooperation during the construction and addition of this facility. We are all com­
I 

mitted to creating a state of the art facility 
I

for dining and social affairs. Construction is at a rapid pace because of your cooperation, understanding and tolerance. -Thanks to All-The H.G. Christman ComEany 
, 
·--~~~~~~~~~~ 


By LIZ REEVES 
News Staff 
The International Student Organization and the Multicul­tural Council co-sponsored the annual International Festival Saturday night in Washington Hall. 
The Festival, a variety show comprised of "song, dance, comedy and awareness acts" from all over the world, had seventeen acts, ranging from an Indonesian dance, to an Irish ballad, to a Lebanese folkdance and a performance by the Ballroom Dance Club. 
"We created an awareness of the other cultures we have on campus," said Joe Henriquez, a sophmore from Curacao and co-president of ISO. "I was fas­cinated by the crowd; Wash­ington Hall was packed and we even had to turn some people away," he said. 
"I like being in the Festival Patricia Idusogie, from Nigeria. "It's very interesting 

(being an international stu­dent.) People ask a lot of ques­tions about your culture ... they really want to know." 
ISO organizes many events to integrate international stu­dents at Notre Dame and in­crease student awareness of the diverse cultural represen­tation on campus. The group also sponsors the International Banquet in the fall, maintains the ISO lounge, and organizes movie nights, lecture series, picnics and parties. 
"For some (international students) there is a language or a cultural barrier; for them, the purpose of ISO is to help them adapt," said Ramzi Bualuan, a graduate student from Lebanon who advised the Festival. 
"For others, if there is a big crowd from the same cultural background, they tend to form The Multicultural Council is 
midwest conference
made up of ten representatives from various international stu­By JENNIFER GRONER for a grade," said Winkler. 
dent groups and Student Activ­News Staff "The conference allowsities. 

students to gain insight onThe Council has three main Students from 11 colleges several sociological topicsobjectives: First, to let stu­and universities attended which they might not other­dents know about other cul­the annual Midwest Student wise have had time to ex­tures, second, to let the inter­Sociology Conference Satur­plore," he added.

national students themselves day at Notre Dame. Students at the conference share their experiences with The event included stu­each submitted a topic for aother students, and third, to dent presentations of re­research paper they wished promote student-faculty rela­search papers, panel discus­to present. They were thentions. 

sions, and viewing maps divided into groups by their Events promoted by the showing the racial residen­topics and allowed to sum­Council include the Multicul­tial pattens in South Bend marize their papers and an­tural Fall Festival, fireside and Chicago, said Jim swer questions from thechats, an international meal Winkler, president of the group members, saidfor Minority Students Weekend Sociology Club. Winklerin April, an authentic Hawaiian 
"The conference gives stu­
Luau, a Brazilian Carnival, dents the opportunity to A speech was also givenand a still unscheduled talk by present their work to other by Garth Taylor, director of a black historian. 

students rather than simply the Chicago Urban League, "We knew people had to get to submitting it to a professor said Winkler. 
know more about other cul­tures," said Adele Lanan, the 

Assistant Director of the Office .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
of Student Activities. They 

-----------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------­
Viewpoint
Monday, March 28, 1988 
a e 5 

Crime Stoppers and morality 
On Monday, March 21, the Student But it is never a good reason to_give u.-­Senate voted for the adoption of the on an attempt to promote wbat should Crime Stoppers program on campus. be done because in practice it just is In practical terms nothing seems more not generally done. What would happen unobjectionable. However, there are with all our moral principles if we serious reasons to resist the implemen­argued for their disposal on the basis tation of any such plan at Notre Dame. 
of our general failure to uphold them?
But more importantly, despite the
Victor Krebs fact that by providing this incentive the· 
community will in the short run benefit
guest column 
from the action taken by its members 
against crime, in the long run, such a 
------------programisdeeplyharmfultothecom-
The intention behind the proposal to munity. If we reflect upon it, the gen­
implement Crime Stoppers on campus eral apathy of people towards others' 
is certainly appropriate, for on-campus misfortunes is rooted in the inordinate 
crime is a serious problem for our com-primacy of selfish interests that seems 
munity, and it is a sign of mature re-rampant in our society. But it is 
sponsibility to try to solve it. Moreover, precisely on those interests that Crime 
the basic idea behind the program itself Stoppers depends, so that people end 
is a sound one. One of the reasons why up defending the interests of others for 
crime is allowed to proliferate in any the wrong reasons. Instead of seeking 
community, and probably the main rea-to unite us against a common injustice 
son why it is allowed at Notre Dame, and rather than fostering the spirit of 
is the general apathy towards the wei-solidarity upon which the strength of 
fare of others. It is a reasonable solu-any society is founded, in the end such 
tion then to attempt to solve the prob-a program undermines the moral fiber 
lem by providing motivation for of the community and weakens the very 
members of the community to become bonds that guarantee its healthy life. 
involved in the protection of themselvs 
and others. In fact, the great success The problem is compounded when we 
of Crime Stoppers in the community at consider the special role played by 
large (we are all aware that "it works," Notre Dame. Our University has the 
as the TV ads tell us) seems good mission to set a model to the rest of 
enough reason to adopt it. In the end society, to show that moral principles 
there is a significant reduction of crime are the only real means of combating 
and, as if that weren't enough, it comes any sort of corruption. The appeal to 
with a bonus, for some people can enjoy monetary rewards for people's fulfill­
a small supplement to their personal ing what is in the end a matter of com­
income on the basis of their service to munity solidarity and integrity is an 
the community. abdication of our commitment to moral 
But even at the intuitive level there excellence in favor of a quick practical 
is something incongruous in the sugges­fix; it amounts to a resignation to "less 
tion that we motivate people to help ideal" standards in view of our general 
prevent crime in their community by difficulty in pursuing higher moral 
means of monetary rewards. Insofar principles, a course of action totally at 
as one is a member of a community, odds with the spirit of Notre Dame. It 
one should be moved to its protection is therefore necessary that we -seek an 
by the feeling of solidarity that makes alternative way to combat crime that 
us one community of people, or in the is more in accord with the ideals of our 
moral indignation that may result from community. 
realizing that members of the commu­The motivation required for active 
nity are being harmed and moral prin­communal involvement in the fight 
ciples not upheld. A society where against crime at Notre Dame could be 
people are moved to help their neighbor promoted by means of a community 
because of self-interest rather than educational campaign to raise moral 
from their moral sense is not a healthy awareness and solidarity. There are 
society, and a program that depends many such programs (one need only to 
on such an appeal needs to be carefully think of the "Don't be a litter bug" or 
considered. the more recent "Say no to drugs" cam­
Some may think that this is an overly paigns) that already provide appropri­
idealistic objection to the program. It ate models after which we could fashion 
may be pointed out that people are not our own alternative to monetary incen­
generally motivated to go out of their tives of Crime Stoppers. In thiS way we 
way to protect the interest of others. would design a program that not only 
Doonesbury 
IJIHY 15 HE R£.TIRJN6 ~ IA/81./.., fJECAIJSC H£3, .. UM...H6...tuUL, IT'S 
HARI17D S4~ ' 
ReALLY... 
HE'S...UH... 
adopts all of the virtues of Crime Stop­yielding committment to higher prin­pers but is also fully in accord with the ciples. This is the source from which ideals that ihspire our comm'unity. our efforts against crime should draw. 
What makes Notre Dame the spedaf Vic_tor J. Krebs is a graduate student place it is .il) precisely the spirit of in philosophy and presiaent of· the solidarity that pervades it and its un-Graduate Student Union. 
[--------------------------------.
p BOX Q
0 
•

ComiC cleans up phoneathon. Father Malloy gave a very generous donation to the Center. Theher act Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Dear Editor: group, the original founders of the Cen­
I would like to respond to Colleen ter, organized campus support. John Burke's comment that I went too far in Hirshfeld, a seminarian at Moreau, put my act in The Keenan Rebuttal. I to­in countless hours as the working chair­tally agree with her. As I explained to man of the phonea-thon. And over 150 Dr. Hofman in a letter of apology, I did students assisted with the phoneathon. not intend to be vicious. Also, upon Every dorm sent representatives; Car­reflection, I agree that some of my roll, Sorin, Alumni, Walsh and Lewis jokes were not only in poor taste, but were particularily successful in turning also down-right vile. I should not have out volunteers. Nearly every dorm has included them in my act under any cir­donated a mass collection to the Center. cumstances. I only wish someone else This year the phoneathon raised over has pointed out my tastelessness at $26,000. dress rehearsal, at which I told exactly The phoneathon is our major fund­the same jokes. raising event each year and is vital to 
I would like to take this opportunity the Center, but this is not the limit to to again apologize to Dr. Hofman, this the assistance given to us by the Notre time publicly. I am ashamed for what Dame-Saint Mary's community. We I did, and I will have to live the rest of have student volunteers who help each my life knowing that I publicly year round with counseling or upkeep humiliated a great man. ofthe Center. The Knights of Columbus 
I would also like to thank Colleen help us in big and small ways whenever 
Burke for her constructive criticism, a we ask. Just last week at the Knights thing I always welcome and invite. I of Columbus we trained twenty new vol­hope that she and others I have likewise unteers, most of them Saint Mary's and offended will not be deterred from Notre Dane students. seeing other routines of mine in the fu­The Care Center was set up because ture. I will, as it were, clean up my act. of the concern for members of the Notre 
Once again, my sincerest apologies Dame community to provide a positive to Dr. Emil T. Hofman. alternative to abortion. We now see Jane Diane Ricciardi over 150 women a month and are Farley Hall working very hard to open a second cen­March 10. 1988 ter. We have helped many women choose life for their babies--women who have expressed their heartfelt grati­
Women's Care 
tude to us. And this gratitude clearly 
thanks supporters should be extended to the whole Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. Our Christain witness is strong and effec­
Dear Editor: tive! Thank you. 
I am writing to thank the Notre Janet Smith Dame-Saint Mary's community for Assistant Professor, PLS their continued support of the Women's Chairman of the Board, WCC Care Center. This year, for the fifth March 23,1988 year, Notre Dame allowed us to use phones for our annual phoneathon. The Observer welcomes your Saint Mary's does our printing. Both of letters and columns. Please these are enormous cost-saving contri­
address them to The Observer, 
butions. Coach Lou Holtz for the second 
PO Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
year was the honorary chairman of the 
Garry Trudeau 
OH,HEU, 
CARLOS, 
MYa456 CAW't<IA5 JU5TtuiPW 
OUT! 
I 

Quote of the Day 
"When you meet-a man, you judge him by his clothes; when you leave, you judge him by his heart." 
Russian Proverb 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Edltcx-/n-Chlel......................... : ............... Chrll Murphy auwr-M.-gw.................................John Olatdlf Al81111f1/t!Q Ed/lor .................................. Ctvt. Donnelly ~Design.,.,..,..................... Moly Kllln
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Newa Edlfor............................................ R-ail Coocla ~~................... Undli Ooldldwl.. Newa Editor ...................................... ~ Mc:l.auQIIIin Production~....................... ~Sfllla VIewpoint Edltor................................... MIItl SlalgiUr S)'8Mma ..,.,..,............................. Mlrll ......,
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Spona Edllor ......................................... ~ ser-Cotlfrolw ...... _.................................. Todd ~
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor .................. : .......................... a.lh 1-te.!y GrrlpNc Alfl ......,.,...............................,. Bruni
the administration of either Institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Saint MillY'& Edlfor ............................s.ndy c.nrn. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Phofo Editor .........................................MichMI MorW1 is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1988 

~------­

sample I overheard the other day and it might be a good idea just to get the full mor­ning ambience to maybe go ahead and act this one out with two of your friends. A lot of our finest drama is going un­noticed over lunch these days and damn it, I think it's time we did something about it. 
It is in this spirit that I pres­ent the script for what I like to call "Mornings...yuck... ": DROWSY GUY# 1: MMMMuurrttu glogglett mertdlip, Bargle ... wommmerspongle dibbly. (translated loosely as ''I've got Friday on my mind." DROWSY GUY#2: Shubby zubby wollubby, McFrubby? (Translated from the original ZOOM language as "Shubby zubby wollubby, McFrubby?") #1: Zeksap blimblip wotnoo yarl. ("Gee, with your hair like that you look like Albert Einstein.") 
# 2: Embee owlblubby gubby 
hattam retfrop...mubby... ("So 
does your mother.") 
(Enter The Morning Person.) 
THE MORNING PERSON: Good 
morning. fellows! What a 
simply marvelous morning to 
be alive on this planet! I love 
the morning time! Breathe it in! 
(Unfortunately, at this point, 
our ironic little drama takes on 
darker overtones as Drowsy 
Guys One and Two jump on 
The Morning Person, rip his 
esophagus out, and jump up 
and down on it.) 
So at long length, I think I've cleared the air about this whole Morning debacle. I suggest that all normal people out there follow my lead and go now and take a little nap. As for any Morning "People" I may have offended, don't get mad, JUST GET BACK IN BED!! 
Monday, March 28, 1988 

Soap update 
Reva weds Alan on 'Guiding Light' 
All My Children: At Travis' ur­ with Scott after he sabotaged  
ging. Erica hired a nanny. Pal­ her reunion with Jake. Scott  
mersuggested to Mattthatthe  Impressed Edward. Dean Ar­ 
baby is Cliffs. Nina admitted  nold taunted Simone. Simone  
to sleeping with Cliff. Stuart  was knocked down as Tom  
flew to Paris to make wedding  and Dean fought, and suf­ 
plans. Skye stepped up herat­ fered a miscarriage. Coming:  
tack on Cindy. Pamela refused  Duke faces his obligations.  
Travis' dinner Invitation upon  Guiding Light: Alan married  
learning that it in<:luded Erica.  a comatose Reva, who Im­ 
After Natalie received a <:he<:k.  agined she was marrying  
a suspicious Jeremy had Matt  Josh. Distracted, Alan signed  
photograph her financial  for the emerald mines. Sonni  
records. Coming: Cindy gets  had a near miscarriage. Josh  
cruel treatment.  agreed to give custody of  
Another World: Trying to es­ Marah to Alan. Johnny ap­ 
cape from Reg. Donna fell  parently cured a child's fever.  
down the stairs and lost the  Maeve and Fletcher made  
baby. Michael struggled with  Jove. Coming: Strange conclu·  
Reg, who fell to his death from  sions about Johnny.  
the Love Tower. cass told  Loving: Rick found proof that  
Nicole that Reg killed her mot­ Lily framed him. A sickened  
her. Lisa had a premonition  Jack refused to forgive Lily.  
of Jamie and Vicky kissing.  Ava hit Clay over the head and  
Jason told John that he had  ran to carrie, who was  
been blackmailing Reg. Sam  revealed as a double agent.  
and Amanda came home to  Clay risked his life to save Ava,  
find Matthew at the loft. Com­ and was shot by carrie, who  
ing: An awkward situation for  tookAva hostage. Dan revived  
John.  Clay. Coming: The sear<:h  
As The World Turns: Barbara  begins.  
was freed after Hal revealed  One Life To Live: Bo teamed  
that James killed Nick. Monica  about Renee's brief first mar­ 
said she saw James in Edin­ riage and told Asa. Gabrielle  
burgh. Margo couldn't ten Hal  infuriated Steve by staying in  
about the baby, and abruptly  Llanview. Melinda told Tom  
left town. Laura thought  she remembered Kellogg  
someone had been In her  saying Donald was behind  
apartment. Tom got Lien U.S.'  Alex Crown's murder. Cord  
citizenship. Laura hid her  brought Sarah back and ac­ 
feelings for Tom. Beau's  cused Tina of manipulation.  
growing closeness to Pam  Deal and Laredo set up Clint  
made him uneasy. Coming:  to get revenge. Clint tried con­ 
Tom's heartbreaking dis:  vincing Ginny to stay in town.  
covery.  Coming: Donald's plans make  
The Bold and The Beautiful:  Lee uneasy.  
Ridge blew up at Kristen when  Ryan's Hope: Roger balled  
she gave Clark a a sneak  Ben outagain. John used per­ 
preview of his design. Donna  suasion and romance to get  
considered Tommy's offer  Nancy Don to drop her  
that she pose nude. Conway  charges. Chaz used Laurel to  
began following a man he  make Ryan jealous, but Ryan  
thought was Steven Logan.  realized she was being set up.  
The Forresterchildren learned  Frank and Dee were proud of  
of their parent's upcoming  John's appointment, but  
divorce. A hurt Grandma  Dakota planned to trash  
Logan left to visit her slster.  John's career. Coming: Ryan  
caroline agreed not to tell  responds to the scheme.  
Ridge about the letter, If  Santa Barbara: Keith and Gina  
Brookegives himup. Coming:  decided to wed on the same  
Brooke faces a dilemma.  day as Cruz and Eden. cruz  
Days 0( Our Lives: Adrienne  convinced Andrea that Ri<:h­ 
lost tll~,.ba]ly, and started  ard kUled her father. Jeffrey  
working at the Cheatln' Heart.  cautioned Kelly to make  
Kayla served Jackwith divorce  things easier. Kelly refused  
papers. Kirlakis told Torres to  Pamela's check for the baby.  
sabotage Diana's new news­ Scott urged Tori not to feel  
paper~ J.?lana battled with  guilty about Mel. Mason's re·  
thugs~\\!~ .. ran away from  luctance to make a commit·  
orace·tQ ....·•~···· with Jo,· eve  ment caused a rift with Julia.  
planted " information that  Eden suddenly told Cruz she  
forced f"rankle to tell Jennifer  couldn't move her legs. Com­ 
he had been intimate with  ing: The dream wedding takes  
Paula. Coming: Eve oontlnues  place.  
to scheme.  
~~ <;!?lorado· ele<:ted a  The Young tt The Restless:  
new governor. Sammy Jo's  Joanna defied Lauren and of­ 
fateful decision created com­ fered money to Marc. Nina's  
plications. Sean returned with  baby was delivered but her  
a final threat for Alexis. Adam  condition deteriorated. Tracl  
learned the fate of his son.  and Brad finally confided ln  
Blakediscovered hemayhave  each other. Victor was  
lost ttl¢ pne thing that power  stunned when Ashley urged  
and money could never buy.  him to save his marriage.  
Note: This Is the season finale!  carol felt hurt when Skip said  
General Hospital: Duke  he wanted to be friends for  
agreed to Justin's deathbed  now. Phillip was appalled by  
wish--that he create a  Crl<:ket's promise to raise  
legitimate organization. Col·  Nina's chlld. Coming: Jes­ 
ton found himself falling for  sica's attitude puzzles John.  
felicia. Bobble went to bed  1988, McNaught Synd.  

t only makes logical sense.I• The only real reason anybody euer does anything is because eventually they'll get some sleep, right? 
I personally daydream about sleep. I draw pictures of sleep­Ing Individuals In my note­books. I yawn all day long. I hate It when, in the middle of the day, I see mattress com­mercials or something showing anyone sleeping peacefully. It makes me want to sleep. As a matter of fact seeing just about anything makes me want to sleep. 
Kevin Walsh 
What a great concept sleep is. When you think about It what does sleep acomplish? Absolutely nothing!. f1A Hal Nothing at alii You totally for­get about the real world for a few hours every night and you get to return to the womb. All that psychobabble about people wanting to return to the womb is just the repression of the basic fact that all scientists need sleep. What exactly went on in the much-touted womb that was so great? You slept, that's what you did. 
So, extrapolating from this polnt...and doing other things that cause you to use large words...one realizes that not only does one hate it when one writes sentences of personal observation using "one" as the subject, but also that the time when one is forced to stop sleeping has got to be the lamest time of day. Obviously, morning. 
And believe me, much schol­arly and scientific thought through the ages has gone into determining The Lamest Time Of The Day. 
Herman Melville once wrote, "One of the coolest and wisest hours a man has is just after he awakes in the morning." 
Just goes to prove the old saying. "Never take wisdom from a guy named Herman." 
If I could be allowed to take a few liberties with ol' Herm's quote there, I'd change it to "Mornings suck." 
One thing I really hate about the morning is these "people" who call themselves Morning People. That kills me. I guess they think that just because they like getting up in the mor­ning that they can call them­selves Morning People. Where I come from we have a different name for Morning People, but it probably wouldn't be appro­priate for print. 
The fact that these people actually LIKE getting up in the morning makes me wonder what else these people LIKE. Maybe they savor jamming hot sewing needles up both their nostrils at lunch. Perhaps they enjoy shaving their chest with cheese graters. Probably they relish smashing their fingers in car doors. 
One of the coolest and wisest things about the morning be­sides the way your face always looks are the conversations that take place. Here is a 
Behind the Screen Door 
~----~~--~--~----.-~~--------~--~--~·----~~---.~----------------~---------------------------------------------1 
Monday, March 28, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Big third quarters key Irish to sweep 
By PETE LaFLEUR With the weekend victories team's in trouble and put them sophomore goalie Jeff Glazeir heroics of his own in Saturday's Sports Writer the Irish now stand at 5-1 for away," Irish coach Rich were particularly important to game. When McQuillan wan­the season. And the third quar­O'Leary said. the victories. Barnard, who dered out of the goal to chase If the Notre Dame lacrosse ter, which in the past has been O'Leary said that he was saw more time against Windy a deflection, O'Connor was left team could put its best play in frustrating for the Irish, is now equally pleased with the defen­City because of an injury to tending the net. Wooster a bottle, it would resemble the the team's strong point. ~ive play this weekend, espe­starter Kevin O'Connor, has recovered the ball and moved efforts put forth in the third In the third quarter of Satur­cially in the second half. Be­had to adjust to defensive in for a point-blank shot, but quarters of last weekend's day's game with Wooster, the tween them Wooster and Windy middie, a position he's never O'Connor beared down and games. Fighting Scots pulled to within City scored only once in the played before. saved the ball off his right 
one at 5-4. The Irish then scored second half and the Irish held knee. 
The Irish scored eight goals eight unanswered third-period on 10 of 11 man-down situa­"Dave played very, very well in the third quarter on their goals to put the game away. tions. and it will be tough to not con­"When Matt ran off after the way to a 14-4 romp over Sunday against Windy City "The fact that we gave up tinue playing him if he keeps ball I just moved back towards Wooster College Saturday and the Irish were suffering from only one second-half goal this playing so well," 0' Leary said. the goal," O'Connor said. then tallied five third period feelings of deja-vu. Trailing 4-3 weekend and that many of the "Also, Jeff made some good "Then I saw the guy moving in scores to propel them to a 10-5 at halftime, they responded by other goals were on unsettled clears. He gives us the security with the ball and I was just win over Windy City Sunday. scoring five straight goals at situations is a pretty good sign of having two excellent goalies hoping he wouldn't shoot it 
Junior attackman John the end of the third quarter to that our defense is doing a good (along with starter Matt hard. But he did shoot it pretty Olmstead led the Irish with five pull away from Windy City. job," O'Leary said. McQuillan). hard and then it kind of goals and six assists over the "I think that's a good sign if O'Leary said that freshman O'Connor missed Sunday's bounced around and Matty weekend. you can sense when the other defenseman Dave Barnard and game because of defensive pounced on it." 
-

Tile a...n.~Deme office, loc:IDd on the thlfd floor of Lafortune Stu­cMnt c.m.r, ..x:epta claalfted -'-tiling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Ffldar. n.'*-"-S8int Mery'a office, located on the third ftOOf of HIQprCollge Cent.-, 8CC8PIS claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfOugh Ffldar. DMdllne for nut-ct.y clualftedala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat
Classifieds 
be pcwpeld, either In per.an Of by mall. The ctwve Ia 10 centa per five c:MActan perday. 
Kli.AASP HUMAN RIGHTS APPLICA­JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING 
i);~id"F'""""""""'""'"""""'"""'"""'""""""""""
WINNETKA, IL lam lkg lor dayllme etu· 
Need ride to Philly or D. C. area lor E88ter TION deadline haa been extended to FOR AND PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE 312-448-3171
den1 a eummer girt. break. Monday, March 28. Please return them JOB SEARCH. PRESENTATION BY You are a big atud. Thanks for dancing 
NOTICES ...... 
Will share expenaes. Pleasa call Tasha to 121 Decio ASAPII PAUL REYNOLnS OF CAREER AND the night away with us. Let's do nagain X4041. PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00 P.M. real aoonlll MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; NANNIES NEEDED ·SOUTH FLORIDA 
TONIGHT IN ROOM 127 NIEUWLAND 277·1051 DAY. NonniMMolher8 Helpers, no IN, 1 Word Tour 1888 SCIENCE HALL. AU MAJORS IN­~..~~i..sik:ki;;g..w-.-u;···M;;-·i<ki··~
PMnmo and the Squankers 

y.ar minimum commitment. 1~9-Oh, you betchal begin• on VITED. REPEATED TOMORROW­Wedneeday for a night of drinking with TYPING AVAILABLE NANNY-1 Modern Day NanniH, Inc. I need a ride to the Minneapoli&St. Paul Tundly llerch 29, 4 p.m. 81 Lyona 12 SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. Kate Buah? If you still remember ua Ll1tle 
287-4012 
area for E88ter. I can leave 88 early as Squank-bewll,.l People I WAITRESSES & WAITERS NEEDED 
Wed. afternoon and would like to return If I knew, I was watched by you, I probably Flexible hours The Dock: 616-699-7466. 
Tuesday morning. I'll pay money. share would have skipped the low hurdles. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU 
expenses, elc. Call Kris at 4505. thanx for brightening my day with yourMRS. COKER. 233-70011. Sell me some grad tixs. 3282 Steve GONG smile and your apartding eyes. john WANDA THE ASH ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st SHOW GONG wlahel to thank JOHN BRANNIGAN lor NEED RIDE TO COL. OHIO FOR 
Source Bank will finance your car pur­GONG SHOW GONG NDSMC a wonderful SYR. EASTER BREAK! KATHY x4205 more information call SHOW GONG SHOW BAUROOM DANCE CLUB WORD¢ PLUS 
chase For Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 GONG SHOW GONG ANNOUCES Jen Long--walls have ears ... 
Scholastic Typln~diftng 
2ss.30n SHOW GONG 
BRING A FRIEND NIGHT Bertie& Imports BMWMAZDANW All All members attending tonight are en­
GONG PLEASE SELL ME GRADUATION TICK­
JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Enda couraged to bring a lavorite friend along April 301h with. New dances will be taught and
ETS. $$BUCKS INVOLVED$$! CALL HACHOOI-HACHOOI Hey Khun L .• I was MARC AT 288-7105 THE GONG SHOW just dlnkln' about last Thurs. night when
refreshments will be served afterward&.

LOST/FOUND 
To A MAN FOR OTHERS! TUESDAY MARCH 29 As an added bonus, our own formation we... Warmest wishes lor a happy 21st. Lisa WASHINTON HALL team will be performing 
COME OUT AND SWING WITH USI

LOST/T AKENIII dar1< blue Allergan make· 8 P.M. 01: Y'all are tolally the bestll Thanks for 
up bag from the lost and found box of FOR SALE TICKETS ARE $21N THE SOPH. CLASS an awesome ysarl Love and friends al-Iat floor O'Shag. II W88 only missing for OFFICE, SECOND FLOOR, LAFOR­ways, MO · 
WAKE UPI an hour, yet II was lifted. What good are TUNE. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. 

Somebody wake her up.

my coomellcs going to do you?! The re­SUPER SINGLE WATERBED WITH HEDWIG'S OUTREACH HOUSE. YO ZlbeiH, placement coat w111 be near $75. Call DARK PINE BOOKCASE HEAD-Catch The Wave: Coke You",. a little too far over to the left.
This ain't no rest home, mi88yl 

upon your sanae of decency and pleaaa "' BOARD. GREAT CONDIT10N. IN­return the Items to 1st lloor O'Shag, the CLUDES HEATER I BUMPER PADS. GONG lost and found, or t 12 Lyon&' C2903. $200 FIRM. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 SHOW GONG Buy a blue llhlrt Jakel you kncM I
The sole reason 
that Notre Dame women

Thanks! P.M. would. A gllmpeelnto the tutu..: UNCI
Shoebox GrMtlnga (a llny little dlvl­GONG SHOW GONG 
were not In the lop 

cera. EnJoy your clay llkl OKI Hope GOV"T SEIZED HOMES $1.00. wrllera. You'll ffnd a challenging GONG SHOW GONG lt'a a grM1 clay! XOXWD40 alon of Hallmark) 11 looking lor humor SHOW GONG SHOW 150 best looking 
female college populations: FOUND: PAIR OF MEN'S BLACK I (U Repelr) BUY Propertlee lor back 

carear In crH!Ing Innovative grMtlng SHOW GONG WHITE ICE SKATES AT STEPAN TAXESI "AMY W Ia the chick who after 2
nan sauer for UMOC ... 

carde lhat rep,.eent a lrelh aHerna· GONG CHEMISTRY. ALSO, PAIR OF LADY'S Into, REPO Uetlng 1·518-458-3546 beera' Will careea and kisa a hairy rein­
live 1o lredHional humor carde. PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN BROWN EXT H-794 24 Hrs. deer." -Bob,Abe,& Blf:Keenan Boyz '88
Shoebox ollera a competitive ulary, ANN THE MAILMAN!! HAPPY 19TH B­
CASE. CLAIM IN LOST I FOUND AT a atlmui.Ung crMIIve environment RIDE NEEDED to Galesburg, IL (or at DAYI A TERRIFIC DAY JUST
STEPAN IN ROOM 10S. Fender bullet electric guitar w' hardshell HAVE
and one of the lineal beneltt prog,.ma leaat Peoria) for E881er. Call Susan, Fender case. Like new, strap included. 
CONTROL YOUR URGE TO HANG ON

available. Juet wrlle 10 (ten) x1511. A reward lor return ol men's gold bracelet $175 or 80. Mlke-x1718 humoroua grMtlng card ldeea on a 
DOORS! LOVE, YOUR CALIFORNIA WEBS,Hope happy

loot in or around the ACC on Sat. Mar. BUDDIES your birthday was
alngle aheel of paper and eend them RIDERS needed to ATLANTA for Easter. 19 •"er the NCAA Tounney mght games. along with your resume and S.A.S.E. Call Dan at 271-9082. 
and hope Pat gave you his package! We 
Hi Kelly love youll The Roomies from hell (P.S.
Pleaae, if there Is a God or a St. Jude, 
or a St. Anthony, then let the finder call lo: We fingerwaahed the forl<a altar we had
Edltorlel Meneger me, as the bracelet w88 an 87 xmas gilt Shoebox GrMtlnga Smoke 
TICKETS 
cake! P.P.S. BUD LIVESIII) 
lrorn my now deceiiJI<Id wife. Please call F5Melf Drop No. 200 Poke
EAT DINNER EARLY 

Classic photo, Keenan Boyzl You're thePat. 239 5096 or 289 9867 NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL 
Hallmark Cerda, Inc. Soak
And see the short man's game of the 

greateallll Webe' RoomiesGREG 277-88118. 
Poet Olllcl Bo1 418580 Hyou're thirsty 
century: Kanau City. MO 141418580 COKE
The Screaming Midgets From Hell vs. 5 

JACK ""GOOSE'" GIVENS DAY LOST AND FOUND I LOST a shell ear­Women Under 5'3"Todey at 1:15 on 
Ten yean~ ago yeaterday, Jack ring between the Lyons parking lot and Sllpln 5. The Brotherhood and Sister­
"Goose" Glvena capped a spectacular my room on March 5. I FOUND a scarl hood will be on the court at the same
PERSONALS Speclaltntormatlon: ""How to Say No Help 
career at the Unlveraity of Kentucky by near the K of Con March 14. Pleaaa call time. Don'1 mi88 the 1881-paoed freak
theHHHhy Way'" Sand $1 to LlfaCom, 
IICOring 41 points to lead the Wlldcata to 2880 or leave a note at 201 Lyona to show of the 80's. 
Box 1132, St. Cloud, MN 51302. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UOUOR. 
a 94-88 national championship victoryidentify the scar! or tell me you found 
Things We Won't Miss XXIV: CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
over Duke. haH of my favorite pair of earrtnga. 
SUMMER JOBS Crimestoppers Ada BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
The 8-4 senior from Lexington's ary.,
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS Station High School averaged 18.1 poW!III
PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK per game for Kentucky during that ct.....
COED BICYCLE TOURS.COLORAOO MOUNTAINS JAKE -Happy Birthday BUDDY. Tholl"d Thlnga We Won't Mi88 XXIV:
LOST: A gold timex watch with gold band pionehlp 11911800. .
ROCKIES 181111. WHITEWATER RAF· CAU COLLECT FOR JERRY MORN­sand you a BIG TEXAS SMILE to Crimestoppers Adson March 23 In the ACC weightroom or 
Glvena. a three-time AI~Southe-.. the adjacent rear parl<lng lot. PLEASE 
TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· INGS 914-3814224 brighten your day. It's so nice to date 
Conference ae1ect1on at forward. earned contact Klrl< at 289-6714 If you have 
LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. someone my age againl I'll see you In a spot on the All-American team during4 ... and nothing can keep us apart. You're Smokefound rt. 
his senior yaar. bians at Notre Darn&'St.Mary'a College YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­Juat the besll 1Cor.1 :8. I love youl Biz Soak 
say Broke 
P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. uNOc. HYou're Thirsty Kentucky has never won .­
GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO

Confidentiality Guaranteed. ugly nan on campus ... Drink COKE NCAA Toumament since '"the Goc.e"a"
BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO 

FOR RENT 
41-point perlonnance. When wll 1he AAJAX Wlldcata win a national 11119 wl1houl
BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES God, &he's ugly! Actually PETE-we like to stick to the Glvena? About the same time that theFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· 
GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 2118-0955-255­
RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have 
paths ... Thanks tor the good laugh! Atlanta Braves win the World Senee. 3684 your C8fll9l proleaaionally cleaned by Love, Evie and Kerrt. HAPPY JACK ""GOOSE'" GIVENI
BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO

The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Oft­DON'T MISS THE GAME OF THE CEN­................................................................ DAYIII campus negotiable. We also do fumHure. 
BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES

TURY THE SCREAMING MIDGETS MOCK CONVENTION! MOCK CON·
GO BRAVES GO BRAVES GO

Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY FROM HELL VENTION I 50 delegates 8ftII needed for 
2 I 7 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT, BRAVES GO BRAVES GO BRAVES Ride lor 2 needed to NYONorthem NJ
vs. the Convention. Sign up in LaFortune: 
FOR SUMMER I.OR FALL 272-C308 Oh Holy St. Jude, Apoatle and Martyr, area lor EMler Bre.ok. Will share ••·
FIVE WOMEN UNDER 5"3'" second floor. Join the fun! great In virtue and rich In miracle near 
~ and drlvlng. cal 2282.
lllonday. 1:15 81 STEPAN ""Never hal Kinsman of Jeaus Chriat, lallhful Inter· 
auch a compilation ofllhort,.... been NEED RIDE ---one way to North Central P. C. WOODWARD ceaaor of all who Invoke your apectal on court of play. Cla88 of "61 Aw, what the heck . .
.....,bled one New Jersey for Eaalar---Can leave 88 
FANTASTIC STUDENT RENTAL 
patronage In time of need, to you I have Wha-unlolda In thla game wUI be early 88 Wednesday at 1 p.m. -·Willing Happy Birthday to the greatest dad In Here Ia the real of the Top 10 ~ LARGE 5 BEDROOM HOUSE WITH recoul"llfl from the deplh of my heart and one to ,_.,ber. Wh-emerge~ to help in driving and In expenses -the wcxld/11 viaited by the Waahtngton Seminar LOTS OF EXTRAS. BIG PATIO DECK. humbly beg to whom God h88 given such • the victor will be the Mlulah to Pleaaa call Magan x2784 Sorry about laal year. Group: 
CARPETS, DRAPES AND APPLI­great power to come to my aaaialance. llhort people worldwide. Thla will be I LOVE YOUI 1. Mr. P'a ANCES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS Help me In my presant urgent petition, a geme lhet will go clown In the to,. ride needed from DCtlld area back to Tecl 2. Tune Inn AND BRIDGETS. FURNISHED OR UN· In return. I promlsa lo make your name 3. Stalrwell outalde Sen. Moynahan's
of Mldgethood'" -a..nt Muaberger South Bend after Easter break call 284­
FURNISHED. FOR MORE INFORMA­
known and cau89 you to be Invoked. Say 5227 office 
TION CALL 2n-7360 DAYS OR 272· 
three Our Fathers, three Hall Marya and THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES HELP Ill I need a ride to the Boaton area 4. Soviet Embaasy foyer 6161 EVENINGS. 
Glorias. Publication muat be promised. It beglne on April 5 JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING for Eaater Break. Will share e~. 5. Roy Rogers St. Jude pray for ua who Invoke your ald. FOR AND PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE Pleaaa call Sheila X4021. 8. The Rayburn Bldg... no. the Ru• 
Amen. This Novena must be said for 9 JOB SEARCH. PRESENTATION BY ................................................................ sell Bldg... no, the Hart Bldg. 
consecutive days. STRAIGHT MESSAGE PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND One week from today The Sl. Louis Car­7. Dunnington's
WANTED "NO. I won't nde with you. I promised PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00 P.M. dinals will begin their queal tor another 8. Congfeasman eo-y·s ollloe Students: Sell your unwented claaa when my friend was In that accident that TONIGHT IN ROOM 127 NIEUWLAND National League pennant-their fourth In 9. Kennedy Center parklng garage books for SS at Pandora's Books. 808 1 wouldn't ride with someone who w88 SCIENCE HALL. AU MAJORS IN­seven years. Darryl, your dirt and so Is 10. Brlckakellar 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS 
Howard oft NO Ave. 10.5:30, 7day&'Naek stoned, VITED. REPEATED TOMORROW­Keith. And llnaNy... Counselors, 21 ~. Coed, al99p8way 
233-2342 ever again. That means you, too. Even SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. The top excuse for the -: 
camp, Ma888chuaatta Berl<ahlres, WSI, ································································
.... ................................

you." I have to go see my oongreaaman. 
arts & crana, tennis. all land and water 
SPRINGBREAK-QUTSALE!Apr.15-17. JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING IIORE QUOTES FROM KEY WEST 'II aporta, gymnaatlca, drama. ptanoplay for 
Used Booka 50-90% off. New books 30% Transfer atudent looking for cheap sub­FOR AND PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE lhowo, judo, photography, dance, com­
off. Pandora's Booka, 808 Howard off NO let for summer months! call 3484 JOB SEARCH. PRESENTATION BY 1. Rella Jartleed Hey guya­
pulers, nature. wlldemeea, model rock­
Ave. 10.5:30 7 dayatweek. 233-2342 ................................................................ PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 2. Don't atop drinking! Thanka for everylhing. 
etry. guitar, redlo, video, archery, year­I NEED A RIDE TO THE SYRACUSE I PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00 P.M. 3. 41 hours -Pete book, woodworl<lng, AN and lyplat. Write: 
Anyone going South on 1-65 for Eaater, BINGHAMTON N.Y AREA FOR TONIGHT IN ROOM 127 NIEUWLAND 4. IIIII UUWkl ltll Camp Emerson, 5 Braaale Ad, I need a ride lo Southern Indiana. EASTER BREAKIIIII CAN LEAVE SCIENCE HALL AU MAJORS IN­5. No_.,.._peln, No___peln _..._...... Easlches!M, NY 1 0707 or call Seymour. Columbua, or even In­ANYTIME THURSDAY. PLEASE CALL VITED. REPEATED TOMORROW­Saturday was Phil Kracker'a 20th B-dayl 
914177B9406. 
dianapolis would do. Call Abby at 2605. ERIN AT 2732. SAME TIME, SAME PLACE. Hope rt was GREAT! 
-----~--­

page 8 The Observer Monday, March 28, 1988 
Bookstore B'asketball 
jumps out of gate 
f'*Y'e RMulte 
~~ 

4:00 -lou's 2 QB'a...over The Digger Phelps Fan Club ... by t 0 
5:00 -Never Ever Mix The Scram...over Scream­Ing Aroheocya1hida ... by 5 
5:45 -Do You Know Anythlng...over You Mean You Weer ft on...by t8 
~10 

5:45 -We Drink Alone over Heavy Drugs by t5 
S1llpln 1 

5:00 -()h My God, HTal<al over DangNng Fury by t4 
5:45 ·The Bumblebeea <Ner CBF by loffeH s,..,... 2 

5:00 ·A Pilot and 4 Guys Who...over Slow Train Comln' by 3 
5:45 -4 S1oola and a Smoot over Dick Vitale's 
-
AII-Maaonry Team by t4 at.pen 3 
5:00 -Prude over Vanilla Thunder by forfeit 

5:45 -Vo Ban e 1he Mishaps over Untouchable 
F1ve by tt S1llpln 4 

5:00 -CINe North and 4 Guys over 5 Undergrad­ua18 College...by t3 
5:45 -SCB Club CNer Ground Wogs by tt 
S1llpln 5 

5:00 -Dangling Childhood CNer The Trophy Bearers by t4 
5:45 ·Dr. Whoopie'a Scurvy Dogs over 0-2, bu1 
Still Trying by 9 S1llpln II 

5:00 -We Couldn't Think of a Name over We're 1he Baake1balla by t5 
5:45 -J. Swagger!, J. Bakker...over An En­gi.-r...by t3 
Setunt.y'e Aeeulte S1llpln 1 

t :30 -Man in a Canoe Overboard CNer Radiation Raaearchers by forfeit 2:t5 -The Wet One and 4 Other...over Best of 1he Weet by t5 
3:00 -Billy and 1he Bikers over S1ud Muffins by forfeit 
3:45 -3 Men, a Fag, and a Husband over We Could Dunk, bu1 wtft? by t7 
4:30 -Dick Wale's One-Eyed ... over We Eel Roed Kill by tt 5:t5 -Ave Guye Born 1o Hang over We Uke Li1lle Gh1s by t8 
S1llpln 2 

t :30 -The Males over Wegner's Muatanga by 8 2:t5 -Spuds over Bed Diaper Rash by 20 
3:00 -Young Soclalil18 a1 NDSMC...CNer Bruce Babbl1 and...by 4 3:45 -A Midsummer's Nlgh1's Dream over Ave Evangell118 Behind Bars by 2 
4:30 -The Grungemaa1ers over Team Number t72 by 3 5:t5 -tO Lega-9 Hands over The Goob, Foor, Lurch, Opie...by 9 
s,..,... 3 

t :30 -Don't Shock My Com over We Need 2 More Guye Call 2t Ot by t3 
2:t5 -Chicken Heeds over 3 guys, Racho and 1he Muchacho by 5 
3:00 -We Uke Bug Juice CNer Spaceman Spill and His Spacely.•• by tt 
3:45 -Long on 1he Yen over The Bu1cher Shop by t3 
4:30 -4 RA'a and a Guy Working ...over Some­thing God-Awful and Gross by 3 5:t5 -Zllpper and tha Under1oads over Gunning with the Buddha by t2 
St8pen 4 

t :30 -Wally and Julie, Steve...over No Threat by9 2:t5 -Fprceable Unoonstrained...over George Bailey and the ...by 4 
3:00 -Eddy Edwards and 4 Other ... over The TrinHy by t7 
3:45 -Ike over Team A 22 1o 20 

4:30 -The Giving Tree over 5 Really Big Dudes by9 5:t5 -Megna Non Eat Sca1a over Eat Dirt by 7 
St8pen 5 

t :30 LA Law over HYou Give Us a Number, Give Us 69 by tt 2:t5 -Sly and the Family Slone over Some Un­known Misaeants by 7 
3:00 -The Explosive Packagea ...over Sweep H Under 1he Rug by 2 
3:45 -Are Digger over The lords of tha ... by 6 
4:30 -Really We Know What We're Doing over FICB Jams by 2 5:t5 -Mercurians over Dump Digger by t5 
at.pen 8 

t :30 -The Merry Me1a over Pepperoni Pizzas and a Ca1 by 9 2:t5 -Apathetic Guys Who Probably Won't Show Up over Fur Barnpers by forfeit 
3:00 -Small but Huge over Po1a1o Heads by t4 
3:45 -Thirty and Under over The Members by t5 4:30-Trenaport Phenomena over Load Warrlois by t6 5:t5 -Tap into Europe CNer MCT and 4 Other Guys...by 2 
Boolletore I t :30 -Emotionaly Exhaua1ed ...over Slaugh1er­houea F1ve by t2 2:t5 -3 Blmboa and 1he Horses...over No Money No Drugs by tt 
3:00 -Michael, Cool J ... CNer 5 Screams from 1he loft by t5 3:45 -A Few Good Wastes of en Education over Lumberjacks 22 1o 20 
4:30 -4 People with a Clue and Jeff over Mesa with Best...by 7 5:t5 -Abu Nidal and Cerd...CNer Skookum Tohubohu by t5 
Boolletore 10 t :30-The Maccabees over Know Your PLS Her­Hege 231o 2t 2:t5 -Conjunction Junction CNer 4 Men and a Pregnant Quad by t4 
3:00 -The Plumbers... CNer Primnive Bushmen by t2 
3:45 -A SMC Chick, a Doormat, and 3 01­her...CNer The Broken Combs by 7 
4:30 -The Wa1usi over Don1 You Be Looking a1 My Johnson by t2 5:t5 -John McGrath and 4 Others over Fal1o Fenomenal Ave by t6 
Lyone 11 
t :30 -Court Mongers over The Dog and 4 Men 
from Murp by 8 2:t5 -Dentiy, Lemleuix, TD... over 4 Nice Guys and Bill by tt 
3:00 -Dunkin Hines and 1he ...over 5 While Guys with No Tens Linea by t9 
3:45 -Team That Time Forgot over Not a Chance by7 
4:30 -Boinkers over Joy Bag Jugglers from Hell by to 
Lyons 12 
t :30 -LSP over Stench Mongers by 2 2:t5 -Just Shillelagh over Bakker, Swaggert, and 3 Other...by 7 
3:00 -AF ROTC and 1he Flying ... over Now You See Us, Now You Don't by 17 
3:45 -Wa1 Armadillos over The Slobbering Labradors 23 to 2t 
4:30 -Murph and 1he Majic Tones over None of This by 7 
Mondey'e a.,_ 
S,..,...1 
4:00 -We Eat FISh on Fridays's va. Irish VM 
4:45 -1 Want You Sects va. Sphlnky and 1he Gerbels 
5:30 -5 Guye Who Wish They Played for Xavier va. Deep Though1s 6:t5 -The Rockets va. 5 Gil1s Who Heve To Get Drunk To Do H 
St8pen 2 
4:00 -3 Guys, 2 Unes, and a Dot vs. Penetra1ors 
4:45 -John Quincy Adams and His Cabinet va. Disgrace 
5:30 -We Ain't No Joke va. Cocky Frosh 6:t5 -We Hale 1he Administration va. Shark Croakies 
s,..,... 3 
4:00 Irish VM II va Pete and Tom Are Still Fa1 
4:45 -Yeah Boyl va. Cenarche Pourle U.K. 

5:30 -Sleeping Past Noon va. The Witty Un­guil18 6:t5 -Slow Whl1a Guye va. KermH and 1he Chuckleheeds 
s,..,... 4 

4:00 -Riker is a Huckleberry va. Thenka for 1he Mammaries 
4:45 -Carber High vs. 5 Guys Who Cen Cover 1he Spread 
5:30 -The Belly-Button Boogers...va. Tank and 1he Fun Boye 6:t5 -Who cares vs. Equable Wayne St. Suspensions 
St8pen 5 4:00-4 Schlopers and One Bellywipe va. Tease 1he Giant Pande 
4:45 -Bayliss Boye vs. 5 Men Who Explode on Contact 
5:30 -The Evil House vs. Plugs Players 6:t5 -Revenge of 1he Screarnin'...vs. 5 Women Under 5' 3" 
St8pen 8 
4:00 -Tahiti Treats va. Jotos 

4:45 -Irish VM Ill vs. The U.S. Olympic Team and 5 Other ... 5:30-5 Guys Who Spring Soprano...vs. 5 Pretty Cool Dudes 6:t5 -Legion of Doorn va. Mr. Boffo and the Bulimic Surfers 
Booketo,. I 

4:00 -Jawms va. 5 Porch Monkeys Feeling Gravny's Pull 
4:45 -5 Guys Who Want To Study Abroad va. 50 lba. of Peenuta Between Us 
5:30 -4 Economia1a and a Double-Darner va. We Had a Real Good Name but H.. 6:t5 -Fun wnh Kitchen U1ansils va. Marv Maestro and the Human PBeJ... 
Booketcn 10 

4:00 -5 Guye Following Triangle ...va. Bunk Beds in Waahing1on Square 
4:45 -S1ationary Motions va. 5 Guye Sportin' 
5:30 -We Were the NBA'a Next Expansion Fran­chise va. Vermin Cong 6:t5 -Check 1he Ice va. 5 Guye Around the Rim but Never in the Basket 
Lyone t1 

4:00 -Rich, Dan, and 3 Other Guye Who Would Spit...va. The Jones 
4:45 -Bill and 4 Other Batman Sounds va. Who Oat? 
5:30 -Hans, Frana, and 3 Other Guys...va. We'n Be Happy H We Score Ten 6:t5 -Count it va. Spocker Met 
Lyone 12 

4:00 -4 Reasons wtrt Playboy...va. The Bemma and 2 Other Guys 
4:45 -We Got Pimped By Our Roommate va. Schleppe and 1he Boye 
5:30 -Do We Want to Win or Should We...va. One Spud, 3 Saints, and ... 6:t5 -lntravenus De Milce va. Too Old To Care 
Field set for K.C. 
Associated Press 
Tom Tolbert scored 18 of his 21 points in the second half and converted two critical three­point plays as No. 2 Arizona defeated No. 7 North Carolina 70-52 Sunday for a berth in the NCAA Final Four. 

All-American forward Sean Elliott led Arizona with 24 points and teamed with frontcourt mates Tolbert and Anthony Cook in a collapsing 2-3 zone defense to shacke North Carolina All-American forward J .R. Reid, who was held to 10 points. 
The victory in the West Regional championship game, Arizona's 15th straight, put the Wildcats, 35-2, in the national semifinals against No. 4 Okla­homa at Kansas City next Sat­urday. The Sooners downed Villanova 78-59 in the Southeast Regional final behind the 28 points of Stacey King. 
Duke will meet Kansas in the other national semifinal with the two winners meeting next Monday night for the title. 
All-American Danny Man­ning scored 20 points, and Scooter Barry added a career­high 15 as Kansas advanced to the Final Four for the second time in three years with a 71-58 victory Sunday over No. 20 Kansas State in the Midwest Regional championship game. 


You Want AGreat Display Of Portable Power? 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-1 H3 Laptop PC 
suggl'stcd retail pricl': our price only: 
$3599.00 $2050.00 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-183 PC gives you all the power of a desktop in a lightweight, laptop PC. Plus it features a dazzling blue backlit LCD screen for great readability. Along with 20 megabyte hard-disk with single floppy drive for expanded storage. And you'll get longer battery life than with most competitive, hard-disk laptops. Added to this, are some important extras ... 
Like service and support you can count on. As an authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll help you configure "your new system. Give you a full demonstra­tion. And match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met. 
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center -x7689 Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 
,mtl~ferns 
AUTHORIZED DEALER 
Monday, March 28, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Fame 
continued from page 12 
the Fan Club, and now-you-see­it-now-you-don't passes from Rivers. 
"Its fun to get out and have a good time," said Rivers, who played along with the Fan Club's jokes and showed the crowd plenty of razzle-dazzle in his only Bookstore appearance in four years at Notre Dame. "That's stuff I grew up doing, and I have a pretty good time doing things like--it makes the game fun." 
One of the Fan Clubs defen­sive sets inc1uded the 'Heisman defense,' as the players rushed their opponents and struck the familiar pose of the bronzed player which sits atop the coveted Heisman Trophy. 
In another defensive mauever, the Fan Club called for the 'Rivers defense' sur­rounding Rivers and as soon as he took one step, falling to the ground as a referee raced on to the court and called a charge. 
The action went to the other end of the court, where the Fan Club pulled Steve Nicgorski out of the crowd to shoot and con­nect on his patent free throw offering. 
One of the best moments of 
FOREIGN GRADUATE STUDENTS 
OPPORTUNITIES TO EARN EXTRA INCOME 
American Companies need your skills and know-how in dealing with foreign marketing strategies, import/export regulations, etc. 
Our clients have full and part-time consulting positions for University graduates with foreign backgrounds who are willing to help encourage American trade and investment efforts back home. 
If interested in helping America build new trade bridges, send your updated resume to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Executive Search Division P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 
the day was when the Fan Club lined up in punt formation and booted the ball down court. And in a way it was September again as Brown fielded the kick cleanly, juked to the sideline and headed home for a ... gliding dunk. 
The Fan Club pulled several other stunts to keep the crowd laughing, including a hostage defense where a masked captor held a Fan Club team member at gunpoint until everyone backed away and the hostage scored on a layup. Another sneaky manuver created an easy layup when the Fan Club called time out and then called it back in when Lou's 2 QB's casually walked to the sideline for a breather. 
Rice, who led all scorers with 9-of-11 shooting and dunking, will continue in the tournament on Lou's 2 QBs with Baldes, Kent Graham, Jeff Peters and Lou Holtz. 
In other action on Friday, We Drink Alone took Heavy Drugs, 21-5; Vo Ban and the Untouch­able Five slapped The Un­touchables, 21-10; Jimmy 
Swaggart, Jim Bakker and 
Three Other Guys Who Preach 
The Good Word bopped An En­
gineer, a Pre-Professional and 
3 Guys With A Life, 21-8; Dan­
gling Childhood hung The 
Trophy Bearers, 21-7; Ollie 
North and Four Guys Who Are 
Just Trying to Protect Their 
Families shredded 5 Under­
graduate College Kids United, 
21-8; and A Pilot and 4 Guys 
Who Can Fly derailed Slow 
Train Comin', 21-18. 
On Saturday, dedicated players and fans alike braved the cold winds and occasional flurries as the preliminary rounds continued. En route to securing a spot in the round of 512, Wet Armadillos mopped up The Slobbering Labradors, 23­21; Dunkin Hines and The Turnover Kings burned 5 Guys With No Tan Lines, 21-2; Abu Nidal and Card-Carrying Com­munists bombed Skookum 
at 6:15p.m. 
Tohubohu, 21~; Michael, Cool 
J and Three Other Guys Who s • 
Think They're Bad silenced 5 
Screams From A Loft, 21~; 
* 
Convenient Downtown Location 

* 
Security Entrance 

* 
Utilities Included 

* 
Laundry Facilities on Premises 

* 
Range From $285 thru $425 

* 
Efficiencies Still Available 


• 
125 W. Marion St. 233-2098 ask for Mary Jane Chase 
#, 

~..·~······ 
We Like Bug Juice defused Spaceman Spiff and his Spacely Sprockets, 21-10, and in doing so, ensured captain Mike 'Eggroll' Caponigro of scoring at least one point every year he has played in the tourna­ment. He had one last year as well. 
"I don't know how ·we managed to win with a com­plete liability such as myself on the team," said Eggroll. "Just lucky I guess." 
Billy Jennings led Bug Juice with seven points and ten rebounds. 
Forty more games will be played today on the courts at Stepan, Lyons and the Bookstore. Though one team will definitely come up short, the Revenge of the Screaming Midgets From Hell, who are back and shorter than ever (4 guys under 5'5"), will face 5 Women Under 5'3" at Stepan 5 
pr I n g 
continued from page 12 
fensive linemen, I mean, I 
could look good if no one 
touched me on the way in." 
Holtz was pleased to get an extended (two-and-a-half hours) look at everyone on his squad, and, with few excep­tions, was reluctant to name preseason favorites to start. 
"The way they played today, I'd have to say that Stony (Mike Stonebreaker) and (Wes) Pritchett look pretty good at linebacker," said Holtz. "We'll go back and look at everything, and ct>rtainly the way some people played will affect where they stand on the team, but nothing is set as far as afirst line is concerned." . 
The Medieval Institute in conjunction with the Ukrainian Catholic Parishes of Michiana 
invite you to celebrate the 
MILLENNUM OF CHRISTIANITY IN UKRAINE 

Free Public Lecture by JAROSLAV PELIKAN Sterling Professor of History, Yale University A CHURCH BETWEEN EAST & WEST: "THE MILLENNIUM OF THE UKRAINIAN EXPERIMENT" Tuesday, March 29, 8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Monday, March 28, 1988 

page 10 The Observer 
Irish open outdoor season 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
On an afternoon that resembled a wintry, January day as opposed to a spring-like day of late, the Irish men's track team opened their 1988 outdoor season at Krause Stadium, hosting the Notre Dame Invitational. 
The afternoon featured gus­ting winds of up to 25 miles per hour which made the sub-50 degree temperatures seem much colder. Even with the ad­verse weather conditions, the Irish turned in several impres­sive performances. 
The highlight of the meet oc­curred in the hammer throw 
Madsen 
continued from page 12 
complete game victory of his own. Madsen's five-hitter, his second straight complete game victory and the second com­plete game of his career, put the junior's record at 5-1 for the season. 
"I think wins and losses aren't the most important thing," Murphy said in discuss­ing the performance of his pitchers. "He's happened to throw well, but so has (Mike) Passilla and so has (Mike) Har­mon." 
Right fielder Dan Peltier led the hitting attack for the Irish in the first game. The sopho­more from Clifton Park, N.Y., batted 2-for-2 with a walk, driving in one run and scoring the team's two other runs. 
"Peltier's a stud," said Murphy. "If he plays 100 games for you, he'll play very well in 85 of them, and you can't ask for any more from a player." 
The Irish only managed five hits in each game on Sunday, but were able to manufacture single runs in the third, fifth and sixth innings of the second game to take a 3-0 victory. 
Playing at Butler on Satur­day, Notre Dame used strong 
pitching performances from
Kevin Chenail, Tom Howard and Harmon to get another doubleheader sweep. 
In the first game, Chenail pitched a complete game five­hitter. The Irish, who got just three hits themselves, scored all five of their runs in a third­inning rally to earn a 5-1 vic­tory. 

Ed Lund keyed the outburst with a triple that drove in two runs. Lund caught both games on Saturday and Sunday and appears to have won the catch­ing job. The starting position had been up for grabs since the beginning of the season. 
"I feel like we're going to go with him," said Murphy. "We need a stick in the lineup, and he also does as good a job catching as anybody. He's eager to learn, and he will be a good player." 
Howard started the second 
game, allowing two runs before 
being replaced by Harmon in 
the fifth inning. The game went 
into extra innings, and Pat 
For the facts call your local Rod Cross. or write' AIDS 
+
Ammcan Rod Cross 1:1'8:: 
WlshlngtOn. DC 20006 
which was the first event of the meet. Tom Mick placed first with a throw of 170 feet 5 inches which qualified him for the IC4A Outdoor Championships. 
Mick's victory set the tone of things to come in the javelin and the shot put. Freshman Ryan Mihalko placed first in the javelin with a throw of 199 feet 10 lt2 inches while sopho­more Rob Fitzgerald placed second in the shot put with a toss of 47 feet 9 lt2 inches. 

Junior David Warth finished second in the 1500-meter run for the Irish, posting a time of 
3: 59.7. Freshman Richard Culp ran an impressive 49.86 to place fourth in the 400 meter dash. Mark Lavery and 1' · '"i'l Whalen took second and third respectively in the 800 meter run. 

The tandem of freshman jumpers Jeff Smith and John Cole turned in another excel­lent day. Smith took third in his first triple jump of the year with a distance of 44 feet 7 114 inches, and Cole captured second in the high jump, leaping 6 feet 8 inches. 
The sprinting events were marked by two second-place finishes for the Irish. Senior Tony Ragunas ran 11.18 in the 100 meter dash while freshman Robert Harris ran 23.06 in the 200 meter dash. 
The Irish are on the run again r-.;1aY when they face Nayy. 

ND netters rally to 6-3 win over EMU 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
There is perhaps no more 
accurate measure of a 
team's character than its 
ability to come from behind. 
Friday evening in the Eck 
Tennis Pavilion, the Notre 
Dame women's tennis team 
proved its mettle in spectac­
ular fashion. 

Natalie Illig, Michelle 
Dasso and CeCe Cahill each 
posted come-from-behind 
victories in leading the Irish 
to a 6-3 win over Eastern 
Michigan, running the 
team's record to 8-12 for the 
season. 

Coach Michele Gelfman 
attributes the victory to an 
increase in the level of inten­
sity which each of her 
players brought into the 
match. 

If the Irish were playing 
below their potential on 
Friday, no one would have 
guessed it by their singles 
performances. Notre .Dame 
took five of six singles 
matches, including four in 
straight sets. 

Kim Pacella was the first 
to complete her match, 
cruising by Gina Radecki 6­
o, 6-0 at number four singles. 
Right behind her was Cathy Bradshaw, who handily defeated Marie Morin 6-1, 6­1 at number six singles. Then, after Alice Lohrer dropped her number three singles match 6-3, 6-1 to Rhonda Brown, the Irish closed out with three ster­ling comeback wins. 
At number two singles, Dasso fought back from being down a break point in the first set to take a 6-5 lead which she would never relin­quish in defeating Marta Varanda 7-5, 6-2. 
In the number five singles position, Illig battled Wendy W aler to a 6-6 tie in the first set, then pulled out a 7-2 tie­breaker to capture the set. The second set virtually mir­rored the first, as the junior won a 7-1 tiebreaker to take both the set and the match. 
Notre Dame won one of its three doubles matches. At number one, Cahill and Dasso combined to defeat Kaercher and Sunita Whitehead 6-4, 6-1. Lohrer and Illig lost 6-1, 6-3 to the team of Varanda and Radecki at number two doubles. In the number three position, the freshman tan­Pesavento's bases-loasded single in the eighth drov~ in James Sass with the winning run as the Irish won 3-2. 
dem  of  Bradshaw  and  
Pacella lost  to  Waler  and  
Brown 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.  

"Pesavento has been such a 

clutch performer for us," said 
Murphy. "He's a leader on the 
field, and he does the little 
things. He makes us click and 
always does something to con­
tribute to our winning." 

Notre Dame started the 
weekend by losing to Wisconsin 
9-2 on Friday in a matchup that 
was switched from Coveleski 
Stadium to Jake Kline Field 
hours before the game. 

The Badgers' Tom Fischer, 
projected to be a first-round choice in this spring's major 
league draft, teased the Irish 
hitters all day long. Even 

though Notre Dame touched him for 10 hits, Fischer kept getting batters out when Notre Dame had runners in scoring position. 
"I can see why he's a high draft choice pitcher," said Murphy. "He was throwing 88 mph, he has a good idea about his breaking pitch and he's a 
competitor. You witnessed a big league performance." 
Wisconsin broke open a close game by scoring five runs in the top of the ninth inning to make the final score 9-2. 

Marianne & Misty 
'!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!~!!!~~~~!~!! 
~ 
GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often 
has a lot to do with where you start. 
If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities MEDICINE.  available  m  NAVY  
• Medical Scholarships  

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a pro~essional caree~ plus the unique benefits and rewardmg lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus on March3o1 1988 JOB FAIR. Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-527-8836 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30 
Between 9:00 -4:00 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Monday, March 28, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Dinner Menus The Daily Crossword 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Top Round of Beef Roast Turkey w/Dressing & 
ACROSS

Sweet & Sour Pork Gravy 
1 Bridge 5 Preservative

Seafood Newburg Sweet & Sour Pork over 
9 Chumps

Monterey Muffin Melt Rice 
13 -mater 
14 Love to Luigi 16 Mine entrance 
Noodles Alfredo 
Deli Bar 

17 Ring stone 18 Woman's title LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
19 London gallery 20 Drs.' gp.' 21 Town official 23 Farm
•·f ·' I .'· );-I
, 1 ~ ' I\. . 
--t. . , I, • .-structures
·~ ....: ..J
/ \, /./'!~,.··,~g.~//'' 25 Broadcast 
~ ~ -"'-. ..:_ ''l ~ / '· '> r ,
-·~":1~ ',_ ,)--=--26 Quaking tree DOW T OIIVf NUMII,ORIIIUI WlntA.'fOJit WHO DOli 27 Schooner 
Comics 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

1988 Umv.rul Pre" SyndiC8Ut 

"Johnson, back offllt's an Armand/a 1/dderda/11, all right -but It's rabid!" 
Bloom County 
I AM VERY P1511PP01Nm? / 
_Pr/mN& 5UI'ei?&UI£ IN MY 
MJIWAUY,

OPfJ~! 
He M7f,U7'vt WNI&Hr.•. 
~T5 8CFOR£ MY f?IITC 

f{.~fE{J YOIJ I liM ~Y, 
!lOWNTH€ 
""' 
WRY 
COMMOP~ SIX 
S£CONPS A(,(). 
\ 

Calvin and Hobbes 
l\GI-\Tt{\t{G FlAS~£5! 
"ORRIBL'{. CALI.J\1'1 lifi.S BEEN 
rnuNO£R RUMBLES t..CRoSS S£WN ICJ.JET\-\ER FRotvt 
111~ 5\('(! 
CORPSES! A R:lWtR SURGE FORC.E.S StOOD m\-115 BAAIN! 
feature 32 Degrade 33 Condescend 34 For 35 Resort Island 36 Sao ­37 Frost 38 Nuptial vow 39 Discovers 40 Isolated hill 41 Verandas 43 Immerse In 
water 44 Covenant box 45 Chapter's 
partner 46 Fortuneteller 51 Food fish 54 Irritated 55 Happening 56 Pedestal part 57 Shadow 58 Because 59 Branding 
Instrument 60 Host 
61 62  Real estate document Funeral fire  
DOWN  

1 Poet Teasdale 2 Unexpected 
legacy 3 Legate 4 Negative vote 5 OT judge 6 Gather 7 Velnllke 
deposit 
Berke Breathed 


·.. 

All Rights Reserved 
8 Streetcar 9 Woodland 
deities 10 Genesis man 11 Pocket bread 12 Br. gun 15 Commerce 
prohibition 21 To shelter 22 Claim 24 -facto 26 Walt 27 Longstanding 
squabbles 28 Monet 
medium 29 Druggist 30 Seething 

31 Knowledge handed down 
32 Descended 
33 Borge for one 42 Seldom 49 Roman poet 
36 Preserves 43 Outdid 50 DNA site 
37 Sheds 45 Mr. Lombardi 52 Aroma 
39 Gambling 46 Movie dog 53 Completely game 47 Glide cooked 
40 Football Starr 48 Edging 56 Party spread 
The Far Side G 
I 
"So then, when Old McDonald turned his back. I took that ax and with a whack whack here and a whack whack there, I finished him off." 


A public service message from The Observer
Don't drink and drive 


-~--~-------­
Sports 
Monday, March 28, 1988
gaae 12 

•
Men's fencing squad takes second 1n nation 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame men's fen­cing team saved its best for last in placing second at the NCAA Championships last weekend at Princeton, N.J. 
Todd Griffee turned in an out­standing performance by placing second in the epee championships on Saturday, the last day of competition. The Saturday performance lifted Notre Dame to second, as the Irish started the day in third place behind Columbia and 
,._. Penn State. "I'm very happy with a second place finish," said Irish coach Yves Auriol. "Todd's performance feels almost as 
Hall of Fame game 
By BRIAN O'GARA and PETE SKIKO Sports Writers 

Any visitors walking behind the Bookstore on Friday after­noon around 3:30 probably thought there was something strange going on at Notre Dame. 
A crowd which would grow to nearly 500 began to locate 

itseH around the barely visible white lines which border the east Bookstore basketball court. But the rectangular space in the middle was empty. 
It could only mean one thing­-Bookstore Basketball was back in business. 
Bigger than ever, the 666­team tournament kicked off its 17th year on Friday with the annual Hall of Fame Game and 
continued  with  preliminary  
round games  on  Friday and  
Saturday.  

The laziness of a Friday af­ternoon, the reappearance of the sun after a winter hiberna­tion and chance to see the tal­ents of David Rivers and Tim Brown on the court combined to attract an eager crowd for 
Irish win four games 
I I I

1n 1mprov1ng to 12-11 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 

It was less than a month ago when the Notre Dame baseball team opened its season by allowing 49 runs in its first four games. 
But the Irish made those days seem like ancient his­tory last weekend on their way to winning four of five games and pushing their record above .500. 

Notre Dame fell to Wis­consin 9-2 on Friday, swept a doubleheader from Butler on Saturday by scores of 5-1 and 3-2, then swept a pair from Chicago State Sunday by scores of 3-1 and 3-0. 
"Pitching and defense wins games, and they were very consistent, which pleased me," said first-year Irish coach Pat Murphy. "We've got to keep our con­sistency, and we can't get 
good as winning the team title. I'm thrilled to place ahead of 

complacent now. We've got to keep playing at an even keel." 
The Irish, who have won six of their last seven games, now hold a record of 12-11. It marks the first time Notre Dame has been over .500 since an Opening Day vic­tory over Duke on Feb. 25. 
Sunday's doubleheader with Chicago State perhaps best illustrated the sudden rejuvenation of the Irish pitching staff. In the first game at Stanley Coveleski Stadium, sophomore Brian Piotrowicz, who had struggled with an earned run average in double fig­ures for the first part of the season, recorded his second consecutive complete game victory in a four-hit win. 
In the second game, Erik Madsen followed suit with a 
see MADSEN, page 10 

the traditional Bookstore opener on Friday. 
Lou's 2 QB's and Two Other Blind Guys, featuring Rivers and Brown in guest appear­ances along with Pat Walsh, Tony Rice and George Baldus won the game 21-11, over The Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys, but the show was what will be remembered. 
The first sign of action came from the north as Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys, perched in the back of a pickup truck, were escorted by a Notre Dame se­curity car to courtside. Don­ning tuxedos and coached by a well-coiffed GQ type imper­sonating you-know-who, the Fan Club quickly began their antics. 
There was little doubt that Rivers and Brown would bear the brunt of the Fan Club's pranks, which began in the team introductions. All five members of the Fan Club were introduced as 5-6 guards from Jersey City, New Jersey, and one of them carried out a hand towel with 'T-81' written on it, drawing laughs from the crowd and an amused smirk from the He is man Trophy winner. 
When the game began it was showtime--as in vaudeville for 
see FAME, page 9 

After starting with a 6-7 Normile won that match 10-2 to record in the seeding polls, win the championship. Griffee defeated Air Force's Scott Shinberg, Illinois' Tim Hensley and Columbia's Mark Oshima to earn a spot in the semifinals. 
"Griffee fenced his best bout of the year against Oshima,'' said Irish assistant Matt Har­ris. "He got a good seed and used it well. He really had a fabulous day." 
He lost to John Normile of Co­lumbia in the semifinal, but he rebounded from that loss by beating defending champion Jim O'Neill of Harvard 10-3. The win over O'Neill gave him another chance at Normile, but 

hli hts weekend action 
The Digger Phelps Fan Club and Five Other Guys 1ne uoserver1 JO wniTIIeJO draw a charge from David Rivers In the Hall of crowd to call the foul after the team employed Fame Game Friday. A referee emerged from the the David Rivers defense. 
Holtz looks toward fall 
Senior Yehuda Kovacs placed fouth, behind three Co­lumbia fencers, in Friday's foil competition. Freshman Bill Leary placed 16th in the foil division. 
"Yehuda did very well," said Auriol. "It was a very strong field in foil. Phil had a very dif­ficult seed." 
Kovacs' fourth-place finish made him the fifth three-time men's All-American ever at Notre Dame. 
Further details of the men's and women's NCAA fencing championships will appear in Tuesday's edition ofThe Obser­ver. 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 

Football season may not ex­actly be right around the cor­ner, but it's never too early for Head Coach Lou Holtz to start thinking about this year's cam­paign. 
One of his first indicators of 
Spring 

[I]
Football 
1988 

the year's potential took place Sunday afternoon at Cartier Field, during a full-contact spring scrimmage. 
With familiar faces and some not-so-familiar faces trying to make their best impressions, Holtz isn't interested with set­ting a depth chart yet, but he is working on it. 
"At this point of the season," said Holtz, in his third year as head coach of the Irish, "we're not looking to evaluate the of­fense or the defense. We're simply trying to evaluate the personnel. A scrimmage like this will help the thing take shape." 
The backfield of the first of­fense was extremely impres­sive, with each back getting good yardage in the formally­officiated scrimmage. Tony Brooks had two rushing touch­downs, one in which he took a pitch, got stuffed, reversed his field and scampered about 60 yards for the score. Ricky Wat­ters rushed with authority and caught a long touchdown pass near the end of the scrimmage. 
Anthony Johnson had several double-digit gains, Joe Jarosz scored two touchdowns, and senior Mark Green, with a scin­tillating break to the outside, broke off a long touchdown run early in the afternoon. However, Green was not as 
successful at flanker, his newly-found offensive position. He dropped a couple of well­thrown Tony Rice passes, but that doesn't worry Holtz. 
"Sure, Green dropped a couple," said Holtz. "That's the kind of thing that happens early in the season, especially at a new position. It's early, and we're a very young football team. (Yesterday), we made a lot of mistakes that a young team will make. Our tackling was very poor, we're not hitting well, we turned the ball over, and, even though we asked the refs to call a tight scrimmage, we had way, way too many penalties, especially holding. We're not yet a fundamentally sound football team. 
"That's not to say that some things weren't encouraging. I thought the offensive line surged very well off the ball. Tony Rice had a strong scrim­mage, although we didn't protect him very well. The de­fensive line was decent, in par­ticular, (freshmen) George Williams and George Marshall. Then again, they were up against some pretty young of-
see SPRING, page 9 




