Mostly mediocre
IACCENT: Brown's Irish spirit Mostly cloudy today, high 25 to 30. 30 percent chance of light snow tonight, low around 
15. Cloudy tomorrow, high
IVIEWPOINT: A preview of the Revue 
around 20. 


RA foils burglary attempt in dorm 
VOL. XXI, NO. 74 FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
By GREG LUCAS News Copy Editor 

A South Bend man and a juvenile were apprehended Thursday night in connection with a robbery that took place in Cavanaugh Hall, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. · 
The two were going door to door trying to find which rooms were not occupied, according to students. The juvenile was arrested in the hall, while the man fled and was arrested later. 

The man, 18 year old James Cornell Walker of 1411 East Corby, was apprehended as he was walking from Campus near the Law School, Johnson said. Walker was charged with Criminal Trespass and was lodged at the Saint Joseph County Jail, Johnson said. 
According to Johnson, Walker was wanted on a Class "C" felony for armed robbery. 
By CHRIS JULKA Assistant News Editor 
The College of Arts and Let­ters is enjoying a resurgent popularity, increasing the strain on certain departments within the College. 
"It's about as bad as we have ever run into," said Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "We're very, very tight on 


"The juvenile was released to his parents and his case referred to the Park View juvenile authorities," Johnson said, adding that, "Security recovered an undetermined amount of cash from the juvenile." 
According to one resident, the juvenile suspect knocked on his door and said that he was looking for Tony Taylor. There is no resident by that name in Cavanaugh. A few minutes later, the resident said that he heard another resident yell, 'Hey, this guy ripped us off.' The resident said that he left his room and saw the two suspects at the other end of the hallway. 
When the R.A. approached the suspects, the man fled while the juvenile remained. 
A resident assistant in Cavanaugh Hall said that he and other residents were able Buried deep within the bowels of Nieuwland Hall, Steve Graff conduct an experiment on electricity. 
see 'NAUGH, page 6 graduate students in physics Larry Lamm, left, and 
Arts and Letters enrollment peaks, class sizes increase 
courses. Enrollment has gone up to about 2,600.'' 
While maintaining it is still too early to say, Waddick esti­mated the percentage of stu­dents, exclusive of freshmen, who study as Arts and Letters majors this semester could reach as high as 46 percent. 
By contrast, the percentage of sophomores, juniors and seniors with an Arts and Let­ters major in the 1978 fall se­mester was 31.95 percent, ac­cording to Charles McCollester, coordinator of analytical studies for the Dean of Administration and the Registrar. By last semester, this figure had rebounded to 
42.4 percent. "We're back now to the Fa­ther Sheegy days," said Wad­dick, referring to the dean of 
the College of Arts and Letter during the late 1960s and early 1970's. 
At that time the proportion of students choosing liberal arts reached a still unmatched peak. In the spring of 1969, 51.2 percent of freshmen an­nounced an intention to pursue a program in Arts and Letters, according to Peter Grande, as­sociate dean of the Freshmen Year of Studies. 
Thereafter the popularity of Arts and Letters declined, plummeting to a trough in the 1979 spring semester, when only 27.4 percent of freshmen said they would study in liberal arts. 
Last year 40.2 percent of freshmen expressed an inten­tion to go into Arts and Letters in the 1987 spring semester. Grande said it is likely this statistic will increase this se­mester. 
see CLASSES, page 4 

ND  crime  
at  $35,000  
for  '87-88  

By ANN MARIE DURNING Assistant News Editor 
An estimated $35,000 worth of stereos, books, money and other valuables has been re­ported stolen on campus since students returned for the aca­demic year in late August, ac­cording to figures compiled from weekly Security Beats. 

Security could not confirm the amount because it does not keep such a total as part of its records, said Phil Johnson, as­sistant director of Security. He said the estimated figure seemed high to him. 
When Security indicates the value of a property loss, Secur­ity uses the value given by the victim, not a value determined by Security, said Johnson, ex­plaining that the victims can 
see CRIME, page 8 


The ObMiver I Suzenne Poc;h 
This house, at 719 Miner St., has been burgularized six times this academic year. See story at right. 

One student house suffers six break-ins 
By SCOTT BEARBY Assistant News Editor 
Ifsomeone is looking to in­vestigate off-campus crime, they should consider the house at 719 E. Miner St. 
The seven Notre Dame residents have been the vic­tims of six burglaries, four of them within four weeks. 
"Everytime we came home we wondered ifwe had been broken into," said res­ident Trish Costello. "It was getting ridiculous," added resident Candice Becker. 
Between September and November of 1987, the Northeast Neighborhood dwellers estimate their total loss from the break-ins to be $5,000. Only part of the value of the stolen items has been recovered through insur­ance. None of the merchan­dise has been recovered to date, according to the resi­dents. 

Costello, a senior, said the majority of the burglars gained entry through win­dows on the first and second floors of the two-story frame house. The house, located across from St. Joseph's Hospital, has multi-level roofs which allow for easier access to the windows. 
Costello and Caroline Micek once came home to find their door wide open and the house completely dark. "Everytime we came home, we were scared," said Cos­tello. 
Becker said they all con­sidered moving, but added she still likes living off­campus. "I knew it (crime) 
see HOUSE, page 6 
page 2 



Of Interest 
ApplicationsareduetodayfortheFebruaryMarriage Preparation Retreat sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry. Call the Badin office, 239-5242, for more details. 
-The Observer 
Works on paper by Cecilia Ann Kelly and ceramic sculpture by James Lutomski will be featured in the Moreau Hall Art Galleries at Saint Mary's beginning today and running through Feb. 18. -The Observer 
Keenan Revue tickets will be distributed today. Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 3 p.m. inside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Saint Mary's students may pick up tickets at the O'Laughlin Auditorium box office beginning at 6 p.m. Please do not form lines prior to one hour before distribution begins. -The Observer 
A lecture by the Honorable William Brevard Har..d, chief judge, United States District Court of the Southern District of Alabama will focus on "Rethinking the Es­tablishment Clause --Opening the Schoolhouse Door to Value Based Discussion" will take place Monday, Jan. 25 at noon in Room 220 of the Law School. -The Observer 
Senior Formal weekend is scheduled for April 15 through 17 at the Hyatt Regency in Chicago. The weekend will include a formal cocktail party, dinner and dance held on Saturday, April 16. Call Colleen at 283-2852, Vince at 283-1236, Ann at 283-5221, or Regina at 284-5316 with any questions. -The Observer 
Red Cross volunteers areneededforvarsityhockey, varsity men's basketball, and the Late Night Olympics. If interested, call Michele at 283-1293. -The Observer 
Residence hall contracts for the 1988-89 academic year have been sent. Any student now living on campus must sign and return their contract to the Office of Student Residences prior to 5 p.m., Feb. 2. Anyone who did not receive a contract or has lost it should come to the office to obtain a new one. -The Observer 
The Juggler Poetry Reading and Art Show will be tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Library Lounge. A reception will follow. -The Observer 
Applications to appeal or request student activity fee allocations may be found in the Student Government Trea­surer's Office on the second floor of LaFortune. They must be returned to the Treasurer's Office by Jan. 27 for con­sideration. -The Observer 
SMC Equestrian Club is holding a meeting Sunday, Jan. 24 in Room 105 of the Science Building. Anyone inter­ested in riding should attend. Anyone with questions should call Mary at 284-5404. -The Observer 
The Center for Basic Learning needs volunteers to help tutor South Bend area adults in reading, writing and math. The Center operates Monday through Thursday, from 1:15 to 3:15 p.m., and each volunteer is asked to serve one afternoon per week. For information, contact Rob at 283-2462. -The Observer 
Transfer and off-Campus students who have not already picked up this year's campus telephone directory may do so at the information desk in the main lobby of LaFortune. -The Observer 
CILAwill hold a meeting concerning its Summer Mexican project on Sunday, Jan. 24 at 6 p.m. at the CSC. For more information call Mike at 283-1049. -The Observer 
The Women's Choir of Saint Mary's will perform at 12:05 p.m. today in O'Laughlin Auditorium as part of the third annual Women's Choir Festival. -The Observer 
The College Bowl tournament at Notre Dame will accept applications from teams until Monday, Jan. 
25. Applications are available at the information desk of the Center for Continuing Education. Games begin Jan. 
30. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's juniors attending the Senior Formal should contact Karen at 284-5155 or Rose at 284-5049 for information about an alternative weekend for Junior Moms. -The Observer 

Design Editor ............ Mark McLaughlin Design Assistant ............... Joe Zadrozny Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman ............................................ Smed Laboe News Editor.. . ........ Cathy Stacy Copy Editor .......... ............ Tim O'Keefe Sports Copy Editor .............. Pete Skiko Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Patrick Zande Viewpoint Layout ................. Julie Ryan 
Accent Copy Editor .. Elizabeth Cornwell Accent Layout .................... Carolyn Rey Typists................................ Jenn Conlon' ......................................... Molly McNeill ............................................. Will Zamer ND Day Editor.... ........ Janet Herold Photographer...... .. ...... Wen Yi Layout Staff........ .. ....... Luis Munoz 
one Ollecrrer (USPS S99 2-<4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. one ObeerYer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina one ~er. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
one Ollecrrer is • member or one Allodalld Pn:u. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
The Observer 

A friend in brings the 
I got a letter from an old friend a couple of days ago. I was really relieved to hear from him because I hadn't heard from him at all over Christmas break. Normally it wouldn't worry me much if a friend had forgotten to write, but this time I had good reason to anxiously await his letter. 
My friend is spending his freshman year in Jerusalem. It's hard not to be frightened when one of my close friends is living in an area that the international press says is teetering on the edge. 
We were unlikely friends in high school. He was brought up Jewish by east coast liberal, intellectual parents. I came from a midwestern, Catholic, conservative household. Our differ­ences far outnumbered our similarities. 
To this day I'll never quite understand how we became friends. Freshman year of high school we weren't too fond of one another. I thought he was too strange and too serious, and I'm sure he thought I was just a dizzy cheer­leader. 
Friendships, I found, however, are formed without rules. After about a year of almost identical class schedules I got to know him bet­ter. It turned out that by senior year we had formed a close friendship. Our values, our beliefs, and our views never agreed. 
We didn't like each other much when we thought about the other's ideas, but we learned that friendships don't need to based on common beliefs. 
Two weeks after graduation my friend left for New York and then on to Israel. It's strange having someone I know so well step out of the context in which we became friends and move into an international crisis zone. Before he left I would kiddingly tell him not to get shot at by Arabs. He just laughed and reassured me that Jerusalem was far removed from the fighting. 
We write each other often, much more then my friends who are closer to me and whom I see over breaks and holidays. His letters are like the ones I recieve from my other friends, filled with commentary about classes, new friends, old friends, and new places. 
But every once in a while there is a paragraph or two that sets them apart. Jerusalem is not removed from the violence and hate in the mideast. Earlier this year about three or four paragraphs down in a letter full of news of classes and such he causally informed me that the the PLO had declared a petrol bomb day and blew up a bus he rides often. 
Nothing brings crisis closer to home than a firsthand account from a friend. I couldn't stop 
Friday, January 22, 1988 

Jerusalem CriSIS home 

thinking that he was living in a place filled with unrest. 
He had gone a long way from the safe little neighborhoods we lived in. Things are vastly different where he is going to school than in my protected enviroment. My friend living in Israel has made the problems there more real and more frightening for me. 
I haven't heard from him yet about the recent problems on the West Bank and Gaza Strip. But in the letter I recieved from him about the bus bombing, he said the PLO's threats and actions had been widely reported that day in Israel. However, when he called home that day to tell his parents he was fine, they, and the rest of the States for that matter, had heard nothing about it. 
Not everything is reported in American newspapers. That fact, however, makes it even harder to draw conclusions about the unrest in Israel. It is a confusing situation with both the Palestinians and the Israelis having age old claims to the land in question. 
The fact that my friend is living in the midst of a crisis in Israel has brought an international problem much closer to home. The events hap­pening there are no longer just blips on a T.V. screen. The problems involve real people and real lives--the threat is no longer a world away. 

Will Be On Campus To Conduct Interviews for the 
CONSUMER MARKETS 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
on 

February 3, 1988
the world of 
Please contact the Placement 
financial services? Director for an interview 
~Merrill Lynch 
Merrill Lynch is an Equal fmployment Opportunity fmployer. 

Drugs used by over half of arrested men in U.S. cities 
Silk screen skills 
Senior Linda Beale prepares her surface before doing a silk screen in Riley Hall. A student in The College 
i .·~
···r-~­
·-oc <~~ 
,,~ 
···~
"" 
_,v•~, 
The Observer I Wen Vi 
of Science, Beale shows that art isn't confined ex­elusively to art majors. 

Saint Mary's VP focuses on issues 
By KRISTINE KRUCZEK 
News Staff 
New Saint Mary's Vice Pres­ident for College Relations Dennis Macro said the key to his office's success will be his administration's eager attitude and his willingness to "roll up" his sleeves. 
Macro, who began his duties this semester, said fundraising will be his primary focus. 
An increase in annual giving, Macro said, is one of his long­term goals. Macro said he hopes for additional help in cor­poration and foundation giving. 
Saint Mary's College Rela­tions has the potential of be­coming very successful, he said. 
Education and planning, Macro said, will be his two greatest challenges. "The col­lege community needs to be ed­ucated (about the purpose of college relations)," said Macro. 
"Good and thoughtful plan­ning is also needed," he said. Yearly plans, part of the depar­tment's five-year strategic plan, will be implemented after research is conducted. 
In the short term, Macro said he hopes to expand research. This expansion is a "big job that has to be done in a short time," he said, and he will therefore increase his staff. 
Previously Director of De­velopment at Boston College, Macro said he had the oppor­tunity to revise and expand the development program there. Under Macro's administration, Boston College broke its fundraising records, including those for annual giving, pledges and number of donors. 
Macro said his most difficult adjustment will be moving from the larger to a smaller college and starting over again, beginning with re­search. 
Macro, 46, said his three main responsibilities are the alumnae program, which con­cerns the coordination and planning of alumnae activites, development, and public rela­tions. 
"This is an exciting time to be here," Macro said. " I hope to help working college rela­tions and assist the administra­tion any way I can." 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -More than half and in some areas nearly 80 percent of the men arrested for serious crimes in a dozen 
U.S. cities tested positive for illegal drugs, the Justice De­partment announced Thursday. 
The testing, sponsored by the National Institute of Justice, found that 79 percent of those arrested in New York from 
Live: 
Tickets $3.00-available at The Cellar 3-5pm and at the door BONFIRE on White Field before the concert at 7pm -free hot chocolate and donuts Sponsored by Student Union Board 
June through November tested positive for drug use. 
Drug use was least frequent in Phoenix, where 53 percent of those arrested tested positive. 
The new information pro­vides "overwhelming evidence . . . that links drug use to cri­minal activity," Attorney Gen­eral Edwin Meese told a news conference. 
"Drug abuse by criminal suspects far exceeds the esti­mated use in the general pop-
AT STEPAN CENTER Saturday, January 23, 8:00pm 
ulation, where it appears to be leveling off," said Meese. "Among criminal defendants, however, it seems to be in­creasing." 
The tests show that among those arrested in New York City, cocaine use has nearly doubled in the last three years and has more than tripled in Washington, D.C. Cocaine use has surpassed that of mari­juana in New York City and Washington, the testing con­cluded. 

The use of two or more drugs showed up in 60 percent of those tested in Washington, D.C., while in Indianapolis, use of two or more drugs turned up in 17 percent of the men. 
The other cities and the percentage of those arrested who showed drug use were: Washington, D.C., 77 percent; San Diego, 75; Chicago, 73; New Orleans, 72; Portland, 70; 
Los Angeles, 69; Detroit, 66; 
Fort Lauderdale, 65; Houston, 
62; Indianapolis, 60. 
The figures were based on a sample of more than 2,000 men placed under arrest who under­went urine tests voluntarily. 
Most of those tested were 
charged with street crimes 
such as burglary, grand lar­
ceny and assault. The sample 
contained few men charged 
with drug sales, drunken 
driving or disorderly conduct. 
Reagan asks for more aid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President 
Reagan plans to ask next week 
for a watered-down military 
aid package for Nicaragua's 
Contras, but congressional 
Democrats said Thursday that 
even the scaled-back request 
will provoke a confrontation 
over U.S. policy when it comes 
to a vote in two weeks. 
A senior administration offi­
cial said Thursday that the aid 
request which Reagan will 
argue for in his State of the 
Union speech Monday will be 
close to $50 million, with the 
bulk of that amount earmarked 
for non-lethal items. 
Other officials in the admin­istration and on Capitol Hill said only about 10 percent of the package will be for lethal supplies. The reason, these of­ficials said, is that the rebels were well armed by an earlier $70 million in lethal aid and their need now is primarily for ammunition, which is cheaper. 
One administration source, speaking on condition of anonymity, called the request a "sustainment" package which would not enhance the rebels' warmaking capability. Much of the rest of the package is made up of transportation and communication equip­ment, as well as food and medi­cal supplies, the official said. 

------~ 
----~ ~-~ 
page 4 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1988 
Mother of dead teenage stripper gets year in jail 



Mirror, mirror ... 
A student admires his immaculate image after being gorgeously groomed at University Hair Stylists. With many SYRs coming up soon, students are anxious to look impressive. 
Classes 
continued from page 1 
Their increased popularity 

have made some Arts and Let­
ters courses increasingly diffi­
cult to enter. "It's difficult 
enough for seniors and 
juniors," said Waddick. "By 
the time we get to sophomores­
-holy cow." 
Waddick singled out the psy­

chology department as being 
particularly hard hit. Philoso­
phy and theology courses have 
also proven difficult to enter 
because many serve as Univer­
sity requirements in addition to 
being selected as electives. 
In the government depart­

ment, the size of advanced 
classes has typically doubled in 
size from 20 to 40 students, ac­
cording to Peri Arnold, chair­
man of government and inter­
national studies. This has 
forced some professors to 
make compromises in terms of 
the kinds assignments made 
and the nature of testing. 
"We have no problem with 

an increase of 60 to 80," he said, 
"but there can be a problem 
with an increase of 20 to 50." 
The increase has meant 

longer times grading papers 
and the need to schedule more 

field trips for Professor Robert 
Vasoli, whose criminology 
class increased from a typical 
size of 80 students to 127 so far 
this semester. "It's a prob­
lem," he said. "I really have a 

strong feeling about students 
having to beg to get into a 
course they want." 
"It's kind of a shocking in­

crease," said David Klein, 
chairman and associate profes­
sor of sociology. "We've had to 
turn many students back." 
No definite conclusions have 

been reached as to why the in­
crease is occurring. 
Vincent Raymond, associate 

dean of administration, said it is unlikely that the trend reflects a declining preference for business courses because of the bad signs in the national economy, and he cited the in­crease in the number of under­graduate students at Notre Dame. "Business is still gener­ally preferred to engineering and then Arts and Letters." 
Wad dick pointed to  the in­ 
creasing  number  of  female  
undergraduates  at  Notre  

Dame. "It may sound terribly chauvinistic to say this, but wo­men do have a greater interest in Arts and Letters than engin­eering or accounting. Which does not mean that they are in­capable of going into enginee­ring or accounting, of course." 
He maintained, however, that the trend is not simply a local one. "It is not just peculiar to Notre Dame. En­rollment has increased nation­ally," he said. 
''Arts and Letters has be­come increasingly attractive," he said. "More and more kids are thinking of eventually going to graduate or profes­sional school. They also see it is possible to get a job with an Arts and Letters degree." 
KILLILEA OLDS NISSAN­'85 Buick Skylark 4 door Air Automatic stereo $4995 '83 AMC Alliance DL 4 door Automatic air stereo $3995 '83 AMC Eagle 4 wheel drive 2 door very clean ~:r auto­matic stereo 6 cylinder $3895 '83 Ford LTD 4 door air au­tomatic stereo $4295 '72 Buick Centurion Conver­tible one owner 66,000 miles $1895 
call Joe Sargent or Tim Berger 255-9644 
"I'll always have to deal with it," Jackson replied, her voice breaking. 
Three months before she put her mother's .357 Magnum in her mouth and pulled the trig­ger in March 1986, Mancini, 17, began to work as a nude dan­cer. During Jackson's widley­publicized trial last October, the government argued that Jackson forced her daughter into the stripper job and lived off her earnings, thereby driving her to suicide. 
The defense maintained that Mancini was a headstrong teenager who dreamed of fame and fortune, and Jackson was a disturbed woman who did the best she could. 

Jackson was taken into cus­tody after the 90-minute sen­tencing hearing. A bond hearing was scheduled for Friday, according to Lubin, who was retained after Jackson fired her trial attorney, Ken­neth Whitman. 
"I feel good," Lubin said after the sentencing. He said Jackson likely would be free during her appeal process. 
The judge "went below the guidelines, which was our main request," Lubin said. 
The defense had requested that Jackson be sentenced to two years community control, under which she would be con­fined to her home except for work, therapy and volunteer activities, followed by three years probation. 
"We're not asking for a slap on the hand," Lubin told Franza. "What we are suggest­ing is a very structured pro­gram for Theresa Jackson." 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -A woman convicted of driving her teen-age daughter to suicide by forcing her to work as a nude dancer was sen­tenced Thursday to a year in jail, followed by house arrest and probation. 
"You did procure a sexual performance by your own child," Broward County Cir­cuit Judge Arthur Franza told Theresa Jackson as he sen­tenced her. 
Believed to be the only mot­her ever charged in connection with her child's suicide, Jack­son could have been sentenced to 25 years in prison for her con­viction on three felonies. ­
She fought back tears as she told Franza that she loved her daughter, Tina Mancini, and would always wonder what role she played in her suicide. 
"I know I tried as hard as I could," she said of her parent­ing skills. "I realize I probably made a lot of mistakes." 
"Are you still dealing with remorse?" defense attorney Richard Lubin asked. 

Hoosiers: Just say no to sex 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Students in Indiana public schools' courses on sexuality would be taught to abstain from sex outside mar­riage if a bill approved by a House committee Thursday be­comes law. 
The House Education Com­mittee voted 10-1 to send an ex­tensively rewritten version of House Bill 1067 on to the full House. House Majority Leader Richard Dellinger, R­Noblesville, the bill's sponsor, said he was unsure he could support the measure in its new form. 
The bill states that during in­struction on human sexuality or sexually transmitted dis­eases, schools "must teach abstinence from sexuality out­side of marriage as the ex­pected standard for all school­age children." 
The measure also states the instruction must "include that abstinence from sexual activ­ity is the only certain way to avoid out-of-wedlock preg­nancy, sexually transmitted diseases and other associated health problems." 

Dellinger, a public school teacher, had proposed lan­guage that would have told teachers to tell students that the only way to avoid sexually transmitted diseases such as AIDS was to avoid sexual rela­tions except in a "faithful monogamous relationship in the context of marriage." 
He claimed that attempts to change the measure were de­signed to weaken the moral statement that he intended through the measure. 
"I think this particular ap­proach is what the public that owns the public schools wants," said Dellinger. 
Critics of the measure agreed that the problems of teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases among students should be ad­dressed, but claimed the bill wouldn't solve those problems. 
"I think it's futile and ludi­crous to think that if we tell them, 'Just say no to drugs and sex,' that they're going to do that," said Jackie Garvey, an Indianapolis parent who works in school life programs. 


. ~
Ironwooo_ 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines heers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
17~:'> i'iOf\TII lf{ON\VOOO DH SOLlltl fSI:Nil. I"' .• r,ti."'>.'> 
South 
Padre for 
Spring Break 

hotel accommodations at the luxurious Hilton Resort transportation by Motorcoach (trip must include 
transportation) 
free pool deck parties, etc. 
sign-ups held 
Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 
6:00 pm -9:00 pm at the Information Desk first floor LaFortune 
$100 deposit required at that time no lines before 5:00 pm 
Sponsored by SUB 
Call Jim 239-7757 or Judy 283-2999 
Contras say talks will take place next week 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica ­Contra leaders met with peace mediator Cardinal Miguel Obando-y Bravo on Thursday and then announced they will open direct cease-fire talks as 
planned  on  Jan.  28  with  
Nicaragua's  Sandinista  gov­ 
ernment.  

They assailed as a publicity stunt the unexpected arrival in San Jose late Wednesday of a negotiating team from the left­ist Sandinistas. 
The Sandinista group, led by Deputy Foreign Minister Vic­tor Hugo Tinoco, said it came to Costa Rica to begin immedi­ate negotiations with the Con­tras, although the talks were set for next Thursday. 
Adolfo Calero, a director of the rebel umbrella group known as the Nicaraguan Re­sistance, told a news confer­ence following the Contras' two-hour meeting with Obando y Bravo: 

Alfredo Cesar, another con­tra director, said Thursday of the early arrival, "They (the Sandinistas) are simply playing games around a serious subject--the gaining of peace in Nicaragua." 
"The cardinal had no knowl­edge that the Sandinista com­
......

mission would be here. We do not know and the cardinal did not know how this confusion oc­curred." 
The Sandinistas may want to hold the talks early in an effort to reach an agreement in time to head off approval of more 
U.S. aid for the Contras. The direct talks were not scheduled The Observer I Wen Yl
Multi-national conference

to open in San Jose until one day after President Reagan is Senior Archie Symonette, right, talks to Victor Krebs second floor of LaFortune, helps students adjust to expected to ask Congress for in the International Student Affairs Office. Symonette the cultural differences if) the U.S. more Contra aid. hails from the Bahamas. The ISAO, located on the 

Child has surgery; mother charged with neglect 
Associated Press good, much better than we ex­gets up right away," she said. Dvonch said she planned to -who have been deluged with 
pected." Dvonch said the girl has ex­conduct another operation on stuffed animals, balloons and 
GARY, Ind. -Doctors am­Dvonch said both legs were pressed no bad feelings about the child's legs Saturday, be­other donations for the girl -­putated the feet and lower legs amputated 5-6 inches below the her experience. "She has no cause some evidence of released a neatly printed thank Thursday of a 9-year-old girl knee, about the point where a negative words about any of gangrene had been found. The you note the child had written 
found abandoned and frostbit­high-top tennis shoe would be her experience. She's con­surgeon said the second opera­before going into surgery. ten four days earlier in a Gary tied. cerned about her mother and tion would be conducted to de­"Thank you to all the won­house. what's happening to her," she termine the condition of the derful people for their kind 
Darlwin Carlisle came out of The girl was still under the said. The girl's mother, remaining tissue. thoughts, gifts and cards, and the surgery without complica­affects of an anesthetic and un­Darlwin Britt, was charged helping me through my time of tions and was in satisfactory able to talk, Dvonch said. She with felony neglect Thursday Dvonch said the child prob­need. Love, Darlwin Carlisle," condition, a surgeon said. said there was little likelihood for leaving the child in a freez­ably would be transferred to a the note read. 
"Everything went well. She's that further amputation would ing attic for at least five days. rehabilitation center by the end "The phone is ringing off the awake and alert," said Dr. Vic­be necessary. The child was discovered Sun­of next week, and that in about hook this morning," said toria Dvonch, a surgeon at day by a construction worker two weeks she would be fitted spokeswoman Mary Fetsch of Wyler Children's Hospital in "It wouldn't surprise me if preparing to board up the aban­for artificial legs. Chicago's Wyler Children's Chicago. "Things look very she was the kind of kiddo who doned Gary house. Meanwhile, hospital officials Hospital. 
The Governor's Fellowship Program 
seeks top 1987-88 bachelor's 
•graduates for management training program in state government 
Applications  available:  
Governor's  Fellowship Program  
Room 206  

State House Indianapolis, IN 46204 (317)232-1 762 

Curfews eased on Gaza strip 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Israel eased curfews on some Gaza Strip refugee camps so Palestinians could go to work Thursday, and assigned more police to an Is­raeli highway where Arabs threw firebombs at a school bus. 
The bombs missed the bus and did not explode. 
A strike by merchants con­tinued to paralyze Arab East Jerusalem. Riot police with 


Tonight, don't miss... 
Uor¢~ff~ 
starts at 9:30 and it's free!! DJ's Marty Crowe & Greg Harris after flick 
Saturday  more DJ's and dancing with  
Dan Janick  and Tom Sloan  
unday,  catch our super special from 12-6.  

All you can eat hot dogs and chili dogs for only $2.00 
truncheons patrolled the streets . 
A visiting Red Cross official said there appeared to be no critical food shortages in refugee camps under curfew, which supported the Israeli po­sition. U.N. officials who administer the camps in the oc­cupied territories challenged his statement. 
Defense Minister Yitzhak 
Rabin's decision to have sol­
diers beat protesters instead of 
firing on them brought this 
comment from the State De­
partment: "We are disturbed 
by the adoption of a policy by 
the government of Israel that 
calls for beatings as a means 
to restore or maintain order." 
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt said he has a new plan for advancing Arab-Israeli peace efforts, which he is ex­pected to discuss with Presi­dent Reagan at a meeting in Washington this month. 
In Cairo, a government 
source said Mubarak's ideas 
appear aimed at calming the 
occupied territories, and in­
clude urging Israel to end 
Jewish settlement there. 
Violent protests began Dec. 8 in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Israel captured from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East War. About 
1.5 million Palestinians live in the occupied lands. 
According to U.N. figures, 38 Palestinians have died in the violence, nearly all of them killed by Israeli gunfire. 
Relative quiet has been re­ported for several days in the West Bank and Gaza, but many Israelis now worry that Arabs living within Israel's pre-1967 borders may take a bigger role in the protest. 
The firebomb attack on the school bus Wednesday night oc­curred on the Wadi Ara high­way linking the Mediterranean coast. to Galilee. 

ttention Juniors Those interested in participating in the Morris Inn Room Lottery for JPW Sign-ups will be: Wednesday, January 20 from 2-4 pm & 6-8 pm and Friday, January 22 
from 2-4 pm !!!!!!!!!!!! Location: 307 LaFortune!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Student ID re uired 
------------~·
' '
.. 

page 6 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
be uncertain of the cost of therr possessions and sometimes overvalue their loss. 
The $35,000 figure reflects ap­proximately $4,500 in stolen bookbags and approximately $30,200 in goods stolen from cars, students' rooms, athletic facilities and other places on campus. Property reported as lost is not included in this tally. 
Several Security Beat entries did not list the estimated value of the loss and thus could not be included in the total. 
Crime is "easier to prevent than investigate," said Johnson, who elaborated that individuals should take reasonable and prudent measures to protect their own safety and property. 
Such precautions include recording serial numbers and other information about valu­ables and marking property, such as books, with the owner's name, Johnson explained. If 
stolen items are marked it is easier to trace and recover them if someone attempts to sell them at a pawnshop or used bookstore. 
Security did not have figures indicating the value or percentage of goods which are recovered. 
The manager of Pandora's Books, Ralph Davis, said, "(The used bookstore) is taking steps to ensure the ap­prehension and prosecution of any individual who sells us stolen textbooks." 
Employees of Pandora's 

House 
continued from page 1 
was a factor when I decided to move off-campus, but I didn't think it would be this bad," she said. Becker said that crime is everywhere, not just in South Bend. Landlord Peter Gillis said that all areas of the North­east side have been hit, not just student housing. 
The merchandise stolen in the burglaries included three complete stereo sys­tems, jewelry, three 'boom­box' radios and a flute valued at $1,000, according to Micek. The burglars also took less common break in items like two pairs of run­ning shoes, a space heater and a blanket, she said. "We're still finding things missing," Costello said. 
The women said they believe at least some of the burglaries were commited by three area youths who were arrested on charges of burglary Dec. 23 by South Bend Police. The three youths reportedly confessed to 25 Northeast Neighbor­hood break ins. However, Costello said that one of the residents spotted a large, white man climbing down from one of the second story windows during an at­temped burglary. 
The intruders must have kept a watch on the house to see when the residents were home, according to Costello. The residents interviewed said they believe the fact that seven women live in the house also made the house a more vulnerable target. 
Micek and Costello said they did hold parties during the semester and made the 
. 
The Observer 
College Briefs 
Male date rape victims are increasing, according to a study by a researcher at the University of South Dakota. Sixteen percent of college-age men report having been coerced into sex. This study confirms the results of re­search completed by Playboy in 1983. -The National On­Campus Report 
Getting away from the dorms to study for finals was easier this year at Kansas, where several motels of­fered special discounted student overnight rates. One motel charged $15 for one person and $20 for two people. For daytime use only (8 a.m. to 5 p.m.), the rate was $10. Student IDs were checked and the offers were good only during exam week. -The National On-Campus Report 
Storing guns in dorm rooms violates Western Kentucky rules, but some students are doing it anyway. Some of the students say they like to go hunting on weekends and it is a hassle to go home and get the guns. One woman added that her gun got mixed in with her things when she moved from home. One gun owner feared his weapon will get stolen if he leaves it in the car. -The National On-Campus Report 


1 1 THE~~x;CHER 
John Ford 
t 
John Wayne IThe most importan :Western film of all time 
i 
: Mon., Jan. 25 
~~\M9~0~t~ELTER 
\ The Rolling Stones \ at "Woodstock1\ \ West," a 1970 
1 \ \ rockumentary.
I 
historical epic. 

ll~~dmissio_~2.00_~--
_ j_ 
L=J-=-==~-=--=--------~---1_­
BRA~:l~E //
PROGRAM /
second in the avantgarde series, America's foremost 
Tues., Jan. 26 
~fiii~iA 
( 1913) 
Rome and Carthage battle in this Italian 

Friday, January 22, 1988 
Security Beat 
JANUARY 20 

5:24a.m. Notre Dame Security was called to assist St. Joseph County Po­lice with Notre Dame students who were in violation of state liquor laws at the Day's Inn. One student was ar­rested for Minor Consuming Alcohol. 
12:45 a.m. A South Bend resident reported that his car was struck while it was parked in the C I lot sometime be­tween 9 a.m. and II :45p.m. on Jan. 19.. Damage is est. at $300. 
I:00 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported that her bookbag and contents were stolen from the South Dining Hall sometime between II :30a.m. and I 2:30p.m. Her loss is est. at $250. 
3:05 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resi­dent reported that his car was vandaiized while it was parked in the D2 lot sometime between II p.m. on Jan. 18 and 4 p.m. on Jan. 19. The vehicle's tail light was kicked out. 
'Naugh 
continued from page 1 

to apprehend the juvenile after two residents discovered that $92 was missing from their room. The R.A. said that he was able to hold the juvenile until Security arrived. 
The R.A. said that he fol­lowed the juvenile suspect downstairs and told him not to leave until Security arrived and the matter could be cleared up. He said that the suspect began pushing him and cursing when he refused to let him leave. A witness reported that the suspect was yelling, 'You 
JANUARY 21 

7:53 a.m. A University employee reported that the hood ornaments were stolen off her automobile while it was parked in the A15 lot sometime be­tween I p.m. and 5 p.m. on Jan. 20. Her loss is unknown. 
12:30 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resi­dent reported that cash was stolen from the Food Sales room sometime between 
10:15 a.m. and 5:30p.m. Jan. 20. His loss is est. at $10. 
I:01 p.m. An off-campus student reported that his bookbag and contents were stolen from the South Dining Hall sometime between 12:10 and 
12:55 p.m. His loss is est. at $75. 
I: I 0 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported that the lower shade lou­vers for the back of his car were stolen while the care was parked in the Dl lot sometime between Jan. 19 and Noon on Jan. 21 His loss is est. at $175. 
"will attempt to get (an indi­vidual's) full identification re­corded before payment is ren­dered in the form of a check," said Davis. "We will then put a stop payment on the check and inform N.D. Security that we have in our possession stolen textbooks." 

Pandora's also recommen­ded that students write their name and the last four digits of their social security number in noneraseable ink on at least four pages throughout the textbook and report stolen textbooks to Security as quickly as possible. 
Brother Conan Moran, manager of the Notre Dame 
mistake of holding some of the activities outside. 
"Rudimentary" locks were first put on the doors, according to Micek, but be­cause most of the entries were gained through win­dows they did little good. 
Mter the sixth burglary, Gillis installed a more elab­orate security system and window bars to keep any fu­ture intruders from breaking in a seventh time. In hindsight, Costello said she wished they had taken action a little sooner. 
Gillis said there have been no problems since preventa­tive measures had been taken. Costello said that they have made little at­tempt to replace stolen Bookstore, said he did not think people tried to sell stolen books there because they require a sales slip during the semster. According to a bookstore em­ployee, the book returns at the end of the semester are han­dled by buyers, not the bookstore, and identification is not required. 
Two cases in which Security has suspects under investiga­tion involve easily traceable items, credit cards in one in­stance and checks in the other. 
Johnson said Security is "not willing to reveal whether the suspects are all from outside the community or all from in­side the community." 
goods in the house. "I didn't 
even bring my Christmas 
presents back," Costello 
said. 
Police told the women that 
burglars often repeat their 
break ins with the hope that 
students have replace their 
stolen goods. 
Micek said that neighbors have been cooperative with the women, but none of them reported seeing anything. One neighbor recently called the police when their alarm accidentally sounded. The house had no previous his­tory of burglaries, according to Costello. Gillis said some­one broke in through a win­dow about two years ago, but the house was vacant. 


have no right to hold me.' 
The R.A. said that the suspect tried to strike him. At that point, the R.A. said, he grabbed the suspect and pushed him against the wall. The suspect continued to curse and claim that he was only looking for a resident, he said. 
Another  witness  said  that  
when  Security  arrived,  the  
suspect  was  searched  and  

handcuffed at which point he 
began to struggle. Security of­ficers restrained him and the suspect said, 'I don't want to risk resisting arrest,' the wit­ness reported. An officer replied, 'You already have,' the witness said. 

Q!J.ality Processing of your 35mm, E-6 Slide or C-41 color negative film. ON CAMPUS 
In by 12:00pm out by 4:00pm ~ 
SAME DAY!! Call 239-5465 or stop in for details!! 
._J..,...,,L.. Rrn. 13 CCe 

Poster Sale 
English rock Posters, etc. 1st Floor LaFortune, Room 1 08 Tue., Jan 19th -Fri. Jan 22nd. 
THE NO. 1 CAMPUS 
POSTER SALE 

SALE OF IMPORTED ROCK & POP POSTERS FROM LONDON UK ALSO AVAILABLE FILM & FINE ART POSTERS 
f\,fARLEY  e  T/-IE  SMITHS  •  U.!  
BOWIE •  TI-lE CURE •  PINK FLOYD  
BRAQUE  • l'v/ONDRftiN  e  DALI  

!IPOCAL YPSE NOW e L. REED TALKING /-lEADS • THE W/-10 TI-t£ WALL • U2 • MONET ERASER /-lEAD • NEW ORDER G,\BRIEL e BAUHAUS • GENE:-JIS JOY DIVISION e BUNNYMEN MANY MANY MORE -ALL STYLES 
SMALL • LARGE • GiANT 
This Week at the Snite 
MY LIFE AS A DOG (1987) I Fri., Jan. 22 7:30 and 9:30p.m. / Lasse Hallstrom's Whimsical film about 1 // rowing up in 1950's Sweden / / 
~----M2o~n~.,~J~a~n~.~25~--.-~Tu~e=s=.,~J-a_n 26--~ ~ 

---~---~­
Viewpoint 
page 7

Friday, January 22, 1988 
•

Tradition grows 1n the Keenan Revue 
Approximately twelve years ago today, the first residents of Keenan Hall trekked across the snow-and ice-filled campus of Notre Dame to the campus of Saint Mary's College to start the first of three days of rehearsal for the first annual Keenan Revue. In its early days the Revue was a product of an am­bitious few who felt that the pro­alcohol-policy campus needed a non­alcoholic alternative for its weekend party-goers. 
Roger Kenna 
guest column 

The idea was simple. The residents of Keenan Hall would audition for spots in this premier event which would fea­ture musical talent such as singing, dancing, drama and of course, a few comedy skits. After the auditions, deci­sions were made as to which acts would get cut and which would stay, and five days and many long hours later, the curtain went down on a very successful First Annual Keenan Revue. And yet, though the Revue was very successful, those weary performers knew that big­ger and better things were yet to come. They were right. 
This year the Twelfth Annual Keenan Revue will be held less than a week from now on January 28 through 30. Though this year's Revue will be very different from that first Revue, the basic format has remained unchanged. 
This year, as well as in 1976, just five days after the last audition is per­formed, the opening of the 1988 Keenan Revue will take place. Yet, no longer is the Revue an effort of a handful of ambitious Keenanites, but rather, it is a full scale effort of the entire dorm, which calls upon every resident to help out in one capacity or another. As in 1976, the 1988 Keenan Revue will show­case the talents of many members of Keenan, ranging from song and dance to comedy and everything imaginable in between. However, it is a sure bet that this year's Revue may have just a few more comedy skits than its predecessor of 1976. Yet no matter what the contents of the show may be, the performers in this year's Revue will surely give their all in an effort to try to please the audience that has made it such a popular event year after year. In fact, the Twelfth Annual Keenan Revue promises to be one of the year's most exciting events and the most popular Keenan Revue in its twelve year history. As this year's Ticket Manager, I soon found out just how popular the Revue was going to be. 
When I first took on the job of Keenan Revue Ticket Manager, I did not realize the full responsibility and scope of the job. Being in charge of every ticket for every night of this year's Revue did not seem like a challenge, but rather, a decent job with very enticing fringe benefits. However, through my position as Ticket Manager, I have gained a new knowledge and focus on ti1e immense 


P.O. Box Q 
Doonesbury 
YaJ HAVE AREMARKA8L£ Y(){/U 8& RtPO/<TING PIRUTL.Y ON/3 MORE THING. JlJ5T 8UAI.J5E 
I:U NOW RIJNNING A COMPANY

OPPOI?:TUNITY H/3RE., ~L.. 7D M& ON TH/3 BOUTIQJJ/3 PRO­
THAT MANUFACTVR£5 UNM£3N­[)()N'T i.&T IT5L-IP JUT. I WANT 7D f)f38RJEF 

T/ONA&ES, [)()N'TJUMP 70 ANY

YOU P8R50NAUY &VERY
AWAY... """ 
CONCJ1JSION5 ABOUTME,/'YI{)N/?AY MORNING. 

_...._.._.._....._ IF 'rVU KNOW I MeAN.
""" 
" 

popularity of the Revue on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. For instance, this year over 110 invitations were sent out to members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty and staff to attend this year's Revue as spe­cial guests of Keenan Hall. 
The response has been overwhelming and has surpassed early estimations of the number of these guests that would attend. Also up this year is the number of special requests by Keenanites, who each receive four tickets, for extra tick­ets "for their parents who are coming to Notre Dame the weekend of the Revue." Whether more than half of these requests are legitimate is ques­tionable. However, a fact that cannot be argued with is the mere overabun­dance of people who are hoping to at­tend this year's Revue. Definitely, demand is much greater than supply. Though demand is great, the charge for a Revue ticket is non-existent as it has been ever since the first Revue. 
For the organizers of the First An­nual Keenan Revue, the decision to give the tickets away was the most impor­tant event in the history of the Revue. It was decided then and is still true today, that the Keenan Revue would be 
Seniors deserve better graduation 
Dear Editor: 

It has been brought to our attention that the 1988 Commencement ceremonies will be held in the spacious JACC. Students who request only one or two tickets will be guaranteed the "best" seats in the house while those needing three tickets will have three seats together. As for seniors who desire four tickets, a lottery will be held in late March to determine who may receive a fourth ticket. Such organiza­tion seems to demean the event in the eyes of many seniors. 
After four years and many thousands of dollars, the senior class deserves something in r£:turn--proper facilities for our commencement ceremony. Many seniors have more family and friends willing to come than the number of tickets allotted to them. 
This dilemna can be solved--move the ceremonies to an outdoor facility such as the football stadium. In previous 
Garry Trudeau 
lH/5/S CJO!IZY. 
NO, MA'AM, 

I'M OW ENOUGH
lA/HAT f)() 

7088 Y(}(JR.
YOUM&AN? 

5/.JGI.fTLY OLIJ8R.
I 

515TER( 
\ 

a free event, a gift to the campus of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's from the residents of Keenan Hall. I think it is this aspect of the Revue that has made it such a popular event and, at the same time, added to its mystique. I think it is important to realize that the only pay­ment that members of the Revue will receive for their efforts is your laughter, your applause and two weeks of homework that remains undone. Therefore, I urge you to participate in this gift by picking up tickets and at­tending this year's Revue in a show of support for every cast member's hard work and talent. Tickets will be dis­tributed today at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Tickets for Notre Dame students will be distrubuted at 3 p.m. at Gate 10 of the JACC. Tickets for Saint Mary's students will be distributed at 6 p.m. at the O'Laughlin Box Office. Remember, one ticket per ID and two IDs per student. Also, no lines may form before one hour before the above distribution times, and tickets will b~ distributed on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Roger Kenna is a junior math major and the 1988 Keenan Revue Ticket Manager 
years, Notre Dame has held the cere­mony outdoors. Why can't we do this once again? Is the administration worried about keeping the grass green or the possibility of a sudden snow storm in mid-May? Are the acoustics not good enough to hear ... our mystery guest speaker (possibly Spuds McKenzie)? 
Maybe a compromise can be made. A possible policy might be to allot tick­ets for the JACC seating arrangement but have the exercises outdoors with the JACC as an alternate area in case of bad weather. The Air Force Academy uses a similar policy. 
Talking to many seniors, we find that they believe better accomodations can be found elsewhere so other family members may attend the festivities. Is this too much to ask of the administra­tion? We think not. If other seniors feel the same way, let your voices be heard! 
Peter D. Hernandez Philip M. Wuesthoff Pangborn Hall January 19, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"Prevention of birth is a precipitation of murder." 
Tertullian 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor·in·Chief... . .. . . . . .. Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrlder 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . ........ Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... Jrm Ailey Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke The Observer is the rndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor... . ........ Chns Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Noire Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poticres of Sports Editor... . . Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton 
the admmistration of erther rnshtutron. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .. .. . . .. ... . . . .. . . . .. .. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele possrble Unsrgned edrtonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton
Saint Mary's Editor . . . .. ... . . . . ... .... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries, leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor... . . .... Jrm Carroll rs avarlable to all members of the school communrty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1988 


------·. ··---~--~----~-------· 
• 1 ' o 1 I I I I o j I I I I I I t I I I I I I I I I • t It It' • I' ' '• ' 
page 8 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1988 
Pravda reveals fear for return of mass unemployment 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's
Acne cream good for skin 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -About 16 million Soviets will be laid off by the year 2000 under Mikhail Gor­bachev's reform drive, and some people are already wor­rying about a return of mass unemployment, Pravda said Thursday. 
The account in the Commu­nist Party daily gave more hints of the widespread con­cerns raised by Gorbachev's drive for "perestroika," or the wholesale revamping of the So­viet economy and society. 
Along with a more effective use of the labor force, the So­viet Communist Party general secretary has said an increase in retail prices is needed to pay the real cost of producing milk, bread and other food staples and reduce the $97 billion the government pays in annual subsidies. 
Pravda was the first official publication to publish the num­ber of workers authorities believe will lose their jobs as a result of the Kremlin's drive for greater labor efficiency and discipline. 
Joblessness officially ended in the Soviet Union in the 1930s under Josef Stalin with the in­auguration of centralized eco­nomic planning, and the 1977 constitution proclaims that each citizen has a right to a job. 
However, a new law went into effect Jan. 1. that forces many state-run factories and economic organizations to pay their own way, and that em­powers local managers to trim employment rolls. 

The anxiety with which some Soviets regard the possible loss of their jobs, in a society where unemployment was officially eradicated more than a half­century ago, was indicated by one reader's letter to Pravda. 
"It's like long-forgotten times are repeating them­selves," wrote S. Sokolov of Moscow. 
The newspaper, however, quoted Igor Prostyakov, a dep­uty chairman of the Govern­ment Bureau for Social Devel­opment, as saying that no one willing to work will be left job­less by perestroika. 
The party leadership, gov­ernment and trade unions issued a resolution this week that mandates the creation of centers for job placement, retraining and occupational counseling for Soviets who are laid off. 
Cat I ives after 
airborn 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Felix the frequent-flier feline hugged and nuzzled her owner Thursday in a tearful airport reunion arranged after the cat was coaxed from the belly of a jumbo jet where she had made her home for 29 days. 
Felix, a 2-year old calico, and female despite the name, became a celebrity after she escaped from her traveling box in the cargo hold of a Pan Am Boeing 747 on a journey from West Ger­many to Los Angeles on Dec. 
3. She flew more than 179,000 miles and made at least 64 stops on three continents before she was discovered by airline personnel. 
"Oh, look at her. She looks so well," cried Janice Kubecki as the cat was put in her arms at Los Angeles International Airport. 
"Look, Mommy. She's hugging you," said her 4­year-old daughter Nadine. "I missed you, Felix." 
On the 11-hour fli ht from 


Mayors angered with '90 census omissions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Big-city mayors voiced dismay Thursday at the government's decision not to statistically ad­just the 1990 census to com­pensate for overlooked minorities. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A skin cream con­taining a chemical cousin of vi­tamin A has been shown for the first time to actually turn back damage from too much sun-­smoothing wrinkles, erasing spots and giving a rosy glow, researchers say. 
The cream, sold for years as a prescription anti-acne drug called Retin-A, even reversed some pre-cancerous changes in sun-damaged skin cells, one of the researchers reported Thursday. 
However, the results were accompanied by a side-effect-­
A former Census Bureau of­ficial told them the move was politically motivated. 
"Absolutely ludicrous," said Mayor Dan Young of Santa Ana, Calif. 
"I'm a little flabbergasted," said Mayor John Rousakis of Savannah, Ga. "It seems that 
escape 

London, she nibbled on tuna, 
steak and caviar and took a 
cat nap on the lap of Jane 
Ford, a Pan Am employee 
who adopted her when she 
was put in quarantine after 
being found in London. 
"It's been a long time since we've seen her. It will be a little while till she gets used to us," Kubecki said while cuddling Felix. "I love her so much." 
Kubecki and her husband, William, were moving from Frankfurt to Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., when curiosity caught the cat and Felix escaped from her box. 
On Jan. 1, the bedraggled feline was enticed from the jet's hold at Heathrow by Pan Am staff and given emergency animal hospital treatment. She had been dis­covered the day before by a baggage handler in London, but she flew across the At­lantic and back again before she could be captured. 
Cat and master were toasted with champagne and caviar in the reunion at the 
Ballroom Dance Club 
ued use of the cream, said an Gilchrest, chairman of derma­editorial accompanying the fin-tology at Boston University 
Tango, ChaCha, Jive, Swing, dings in Friday's Journal of the School of Medicine. American Medical Associa-"For the first time, there is 

COME 
tion. good sound scientific work Nonetheless, the four-month demonstrating the rever­
DANCE

study is "extraordinarily im-sibility of the aging process in portant," said the author of the skin," she said in a telephone editorial, Dr. Barbara interview. 
WITH 
r----------------, 
1 kinko•s® 1 (]5 
Who?: All interested Notre Dame-St. Mary's students, 
Why?: Learn to Dance, Meet People, Have Fun redness and peeling in the 
I 
I creat copies. creat people. I 
faculty, and staff What?: Dancing with one of NDSMC's largest clubs. 
I 

No partner or experience necessary! 
KINKO'S HOURS ....•.• 

AP Photo 
Felix, the frequeRt-flyer cat, is reunited with her owner after traveling over 179,000 miles. Felix has made at least 64 stops around the world after escaping from her travelling box. See story at left. 
when the feds want to find you, formulas for distribution of bil­they find you. Listening to this, lions of dollars in annual when they want to lose you they federal aid. lose vou." "The reasons were dressed 
Those census figures will be up in technical language, but it used as a basis for congres­was purely a political decision sional and state legislative that these invisible Americans reapportionment and, most im­will not be counted in 1990." portantly for in
mayors, 

FAA wants pilots with experience 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Federal Aviation Administration called on airlines Thursday to avoid teaming inexperienced pilots in the cockpit, citing concern about the experience level of the pilots in the crash of a Con­tinental Airlines jet in Novem­ber. 
The agency also announced tighter restrictions on aircraft maintenance and released year-end statistics showing a 26 percent increase in the number of near-collision reports--1,056 compared with 840 the previous year--filed by pilots during 1987. 
FAA administrator Allan McArtor discussed the issue of pilot experience, airline main­tenance and the near-collision statistics at a meeting with reporters. 
The accident attracted FAA concern over how airlines team their flight crews because both crewmen had relatively little experience flying DC-9s--198 hours for the captain and 36 hours for the 26 year old co­pilot, who was at the controls. 
McArtor told reporters that the FAA has asked the airlines "to stress the importance of not putting two pilots in the same cockpit if they both have rela­tively little experience in the type of airplane they are flying." 
-occasionally severe patches of 
••••••Get ready for the Feb.l2 Mardi Gras Dance 
treated skin that lasted up to ~10N-THUR 
I

three months before subsiding, said researchers at the Univer­7:30a-l0:00p I 
When?: f~onday, January 25th, 7:00 p.m.
sity of Michigan Medical Cen­
Where?: Stepan Center
I

ter at Ann Arbor. 
SAT SUN

And there was no indication 
Free refreshments
whether benefits are per­
9a-6p NOON-Spt: ..1 ~===================:::::!..~
manent, with or without contin­
;;;;;o;;;;=·-------I ­
~~--------------~-------~--~------~~~~-r~~~~--------------------­
Accent 

Friday, January 22, 1988 page 9 
I !!i[SW·!$~.1:fW1 ··fiJ.Ii81111M4:':tiiiJ1·011i'M§# ipA ....... 
Tim Brown and 
I 
was In England on the day ting to hurt them, would always when Notre Dame played in walk away, leaving them to the Cotton Bowl, so I didn't see believe he was afraid of them. the game. All I know of Tim He had grown up avoiding Brown's going after his towel Is fights, even when other kids what I've read In the took advantage of him. He newspapers. Was he justified? I once had a turtle as a pet; have no way of knowing; but some cretins, he said, stole the from what I hear of the story, I turtle, and put It under the 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 


applaud him for his fighting 
Irish spirit. Why? Because he Instinctively reacted to correct 
the small l'l]ustlce of which he was a victim. 
As the Helsman trophy win­ner, should he have shown more class? In my book. he showed a great deal of class. "Those whom the gods would destroy, they first make big." How are they destroyed? The gods don't do It directly; they pare their fingernails while the heroes larger than life are destroyed by the bullying of the weak. 
Big John K. played football for Notre Dame years ago: he was a man-child the size of a mountain. His face was fierce to look at. but inwardly, he was gentle. Outwardly, he was gentle too, because he felt he had to be. As he told us, he was afraid to get In a fight. since he was so strong. he could destroy an opponent without really wanting to. Plpsqueeks with a little Dutch courage In them, he told us, were constantly challenging him to a brawl. John, not wan-wheel ' of a truck. which crushed it. Then they gave the poor dead thing back to John, to see his reaction. Years later, telling the story, he had tears In his eyes as he remembered himself as a young giant. so overgrown that he was as defenseless as the neighbor­hood weakling. 
Tim Brown, retrieving his towel. wasn't big John, helpless at the murder of his turtle. Tim Brown, mad Inside, was not afraid to act. His quarrel was with another player as strong as himself. Did he lose stature as the Helsman Trophy winner by not keeping his cool? To his credit. I think. he wore that honor lightly; he didn't regard himself as an Immortal who was going to sit still when his peers wanted to make a fool of him. He stood up for his rights. Only a hypocrite would find fault with him for that. as though he had besmirched the honor and glory of the game in which he excels. Where is It written that as a Helsman Trophy winner you must stay meek when the wise guys gang 
the Fighting Irish 
up on you? Certainly a touch­down hero, who Is also a gentleman, can't throw his weight around for the hell of it. But did they give Tim Brown the Heisman so that he could serve us as a Christ-figure of enduring patience? We can't • show Tim how a gentleman­athlete acts. He has shown up that a gentleman-athlete doesn't have to smile like Uncle Tom when he's being humiliated. 
As I have mentioned, I did not see the game. Why then, am I In such a sweat to defend Tim Brown? Because I hate seeing the strong having to take what's dished out to them by the also-rans, and you don't have to leave the campus to find instances. Fr. Hesburgh, for example, is one of the country's great leaders; yet. when he was ND's president. students kept complaining of him in The Observer as a hypo­crite. Now a university presi­dent doesn't put on the gloves against every loud-mouthed freshman attacking him, in a match titled Superchlef against the Bantamweight; for Hes­burgh, that would always be a no-win situation. Hesburgh couldn't fight for his towel, and the students must have known it. He stood by helpless, cas­ting his long shadow, while the young and the restless took the pound of flesh they weren't entitled to. He did it because he had no other choice; not because he was weak, but be­cause he owned the store. 
Years ago in a Scholastic arti­cle on sexuality, William F. Buckley was cited as a closet gay. Buckley sent a letter 

Keenan Revue preview 
I 
MARIA JUKIC accent writer n the depths of a cold and dreary January In South Bend, life In general can be­come somewhat of a chore. It Is with this thought in mind that a seemingly mild­mannered dorm on North Quad emerges with superhuman ef­fort to save us from utter despair. The dorm is Keenan and its answer to the winter blahs is the eagerly anticipated annual Keenan Revue. 
The Keenan Revue is "like the 'Saturday Live' of Notre Dame," says Paul A. Kane, director of this year's Revue. "There Is quite a mixture of talent. including skits, dancing. mimes, songs, and original musical compositions." 
The Revue debuted In 1976 under the direction of Rick Thomas and Steve Lenz. Though the originators are long gone, their legacy sur­vives. "There is nothing that pulls the whole dorm together like this," says Kane. "Nothing even comes close." 
Auditions are long and tough. Of the 140 skits trying out, only 30 to 40 will make the final cuts which are still presently under way. Thes tur­nout is an example of the whole dorm Involvement. "The entire dorm puts aside books, girlfriends, and family for two weeks and concentrates solely on the Revue," says Frank J. 
Huemmer, the 1988 producer. "In one way or another, 96% of the people get involved." 
And there are quite a number of ways to get involved. Be­sides the performers, there is a staff list of 25, ranging from Ticker Managers and Ad Reps to Choreographers and Head Writers. "You do not need to be an actor or a musician. Every aspect of people are Keenanites; technicians, ticket managers, staff, make-up, and ushers," says Huemmer. "This Keenan Revue is no small task. We will be eating. breathing. and sleeping the Keenan Revue until it goes on," offer Kane and Huemmer. 
This year's theme, "Saturday Morning Television", was cho­sen after Kane received the director's seat in the spring. "Basically, though, the real planning started in August." tells producer Huemmer. "We had to plan a concession stand and raffle to raise money, con­tact the auditoriom for reserva­tions, assemble the staff, order T-shlrts, and take care of all those little details." 
After Christmas, however, was the tough period. "There was so much to be done, I thought I'd need 36 hours in a day to finish," says Huemmer. "Last weekend, everything fell Into place. The task did not seem insurmountable. Now, we feel confident, very confident." Kane agrees wholeheartedly, "''ve been assistant director for two years before this, and I've never had this strong a feeling." 
The intensity level at Keenan is indescribable. Every corner of the building is devoted to the show. "Life just picks up for Keenan. Through the Revue, you get to know every­one. It is amazing how every­one gets together to put on such a large scale show in just two weeks," relate Huemmer and Kane. 
Tickets to the show are free. "The costs are covered in a number of ways: a concession stand, raffle ticket sales, T­shirts, and especially donations at the door," says Huemmer. "The bulk of the support comes from the door dona­tions, and without that support. the show could not happen." 
Although the show Is free, tickets are very hard to come by. Each Keenan resident receives a number of tickets. The remaining tickets are given to faculty and general distribu­tion, which is on a first-come first-serve basis. 
The Revue Is scheduled to run Thursday, January 28 through Saturday, January 30 at 7:30p.m. In the O'Laughlln Auditorium at Saint Mary's Col­lege. The staff expects a full house every night. 
"STAY TUNED", say the staff, "for an upcoming publicity stuntl" denying the truth of the allega­tion. His protest went someth­Ing like this: "''m not about to begin a controversy with a stu­dent publication; however, I'm hoping for the kind of fairness from Notre Dame that I might not get from a lesser school." The Scholastic writer, ack­nowledging Buckley's letter, did not exactly eat humble pie in the matter. Buckley, as far as I know, let the matter drop, with· out leveling the great guns which could have blown the Scholastic out of the water. Whatever his reputation was worth, he didn't fight to get It back. like the towel that Tim had taken from him. 

Margaret Truman began her debut as a singer while her father Harry Truman was In the White House. A Washington critic went out of his way to pan Margaret. in a review he might have written differently If she hadn't been the President's daughter. Truman reacted to the criticism, not in a presiden­tial way, but a fatherly way: he wrote a letter threatening the critic with bodily disaster. Truman's political opponents raised up cries of protest as though the Oval Office had been defiled. Most of the country enjoyed the human reaction of the feisty little man from Independence. Harry S. Truman, you can bet. would have cheered Tim Brown for defending his towel. 
What would happen if a team of Notre Dame students, not necessarily athletes, took on a gang of street-wise kids from one of the tough neighbor­hoods In South Bend where the cops tend to miss all the 

Spirit 

crime? Even if the Darners got the better of the situation, It would turn out for them as a no-win situation. can't you hear the bleeding-hearts now, fault­Ing the rich, well-fed older stu­dents for turning on teenagers, to bully them? 
The world Is unfair when the strong lord it over the weak. Sometimes, however, the weak have a field day humbling the strong; their very weakness is a position of strength, where the strong can't get at them with­out looking like storm-troopers guilty of brutalizing the help­less. The 97-pound weakling kicks sand In the weight-lifters face. When the weight-lifter gets ready to break the wea­kling in two, the latter defends himself: "You daren't touch me. I'm wearing glasses." 
In the world as we know it. the strong may be a football player, a celebrity, a politician, or a university administrator. The weak may be the kid who puts a turtle under the wheel of a truck. saying: "What are you going to do about it, you muscle-bound lug?" The muscle-bound lug may be so big--or highly placed--he's powerless. 
It does my heart good to hear about Tim Brown, stand­Ing up for himself on the turf on which he Is a professional. Maybe when he's finished with his towel. Notre Dame can place it In a trophy case of the JACC. It symbolizes a man's dignity, which he has fought for. Dignity, fairly defended, Is worth more than whether we won or lost the Cotton Bowl game. 

Up and Coming 
1. 
I Wanna be a Flintstone Screaming Blue Mes­siahs 

2. 
Orpheus David Sylvian 

3. 
The Body Public Image Umited 


4. No New Tale to Tell Love and Rockets 
5. 
Litany (Life Goes On) Guadalcanal Diary 

6. 
Jerusalem Sinead O'Conner 

7. 
Waning Moon Peter Himmelman 


8. The Loved One INXS 
9. A Word About Jones The Celibate Rifles 
10. Jesus Chrysler Drives a Dodge Screaming Blue Messiahs 
-.---r-......,.--;-----:-' ;­
I I t I I I 1 I I I o t • • • • ' • • 
Friday, January 22, 1988 
page 10 The Observer 

Chris Evert stunned Martina Navratllova yester­Steffl Graf In the finals of the Australian Open day In straight sets. Evert earned the right to face tomorrow. 
Sports Briefs 
WVFI will broadcast tonight's Notre Dame-North Dakota State hockey game. Sean Pieri, Bob Fitzgerald and Sean Munster provide the play-by-play. Coverage begins with the Ric Schafer Show at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The Rugby Club will hold a mandatory meeting Monday, Jan. 25, at 4:45 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Auditorium. All new and old members of the team are encouraged to attend because the winter practice schedule will be discussed. No experience or athletic ability re­quired. Any questions, call Tim at 234-5986. -The Observer 
The martial arts institute will have workouts Sunday, Jan. 24. Those interested in joining contact Bill or Drew at 288-4319. No experience necessary. -The Ob­
server 

Any freshman interested in becoming a student manager should attend an organizational meeting Tues­day, Jan. 26, at 7:30p.m. in the JACC auditorium. Call the managers' office at 239-6482 after 2:30p.m. weekdays if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in forming a women's lacrosse team call Heidi at 3778. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball entry forms are now available at Angela Athletic Facility. The forms for the five-on-five league are due Monday, Jan. 25. -The Ob­server 
Referees are needed for SMC intramural basketball. Call 5548 for more information. -The Observer 
Snow volleyball teams which have not yet been eliminated should report to Stepan Field Sunday, Jan. 24, at 11 a.m. -The Observer 
n.a..wrNotnt Dame omce, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, .:c:epta clasalfied ed¥atlalng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvoug11 Friday. The~ s.Jn1 M8ry's oftk:e, located on the third floor of tt.uu-Collge Center, ac:c;epta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne tor next~ claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds must 
Classifieds be pnlpalcl, either In person or by malL The charge Is 10 c:enta per five ~perday. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
................................................................ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-40112 
································································ 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30 
WORDPROCESSING· TYPING 272-U27 
TYPING SERVICE 259-2334 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 277­7406 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 
Ride offered to Ann Arbor.Toledo,or 
DETROIT.t-2211-24 £2674 
' LOST/FOUND I 
Found: Gold bracelet in South Dining Hall on Wednesday, Jan. 20. Engraved name inside. Come by the dining hall to identify. 
LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT­ING GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I REALLY NEEDIIII 
LOST -DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY DISK. SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD 
LOST!! I LOST MY FAVORITE RED CAP SATURDAY NIGHT. IT WAS LOST EITHER ON PORTAGE AVE. OR AT CAMPUS VIEW. IF YOU FIND IT, PLEASE CALL STEPHEN AT 3018. THERE IS A SMALL REWARD IF FOUND I 
LOST: bright purple umbrella with car­toon on sides. long with broken handle. lost before break. Sentimental value. PLEASE call Lori-2516, rm 330 Howard. 
LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIP. BROWN­RIMMED GLASSES IN TAN HARD­BACKED CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 4559 OR 2698. 

LOST:SEIKO WATCH with silver and gold band white face, sometime before break. HS grad. present--BIIIIGG REWARDIII Call Mike, 2112. 
LOST: GREY SKI JACKET at Rat's house last Thursday night. If found call Jerry at £1728. No questions asked and reward offered. 
LOST: Chopard Watch of great sen­timental value. Lost around the library or Breen-Phillips. Watch has a maroon band and a glass face. PLEASE call1325 if found. 
LOST:A gold high school ring with blue stone at basketball game Sat. Namelngraved Inside. If found, pleaee cell Dorothy 81 2886. Reward offered. 
FOUND: A gold ring in Ladies Room of Alumni Hall. Found during first weak of semester. Call 3792 at NO. 
Help we lost our lavori1e scarfs! One red plaid wool scarf was lost December 16 in the Huddle. The other was a maroon and grey plaid scarf lost January 12 be­tween the JACC and Cushing. If you have any information regarding their whereabouts please call us at £3433 
LOST: PEARL RING, SET IN GOLD-lost the Friday before Break in the vincinity of the Circle and Alumni Hall. If found call d4-4141. RING IS OF EXTREME SE~ fiMENTAL VALUE AND A REWARD IS OFFERED. 
MISSING. I am missing a dark grey Wil­derness Experience backpack from the South Dining Hall at lunch on wednesday, Jan,20. It was chock-tull-o' books and other neat stuff very dear to me. If found, being reunited with nwould be just dandy. call Chris £4294 
FOR RENT 

Partially furnished ranch 3 bedrooms -2 baths washer-dryer-oven-stove­refrigerator-softner great neibourhood, off Angela blvd. ideal for 3 students call 232-3616 
2 BEDROOM HOME FOR RENT, NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
OFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288­09551255-3684 
Apartment in NO Apts. Looking for female to share expenses with 3 others until May. Call Cathi at 3773. 
WANTED 

HIRINGI Government joba -your area. $15,G00-$88,000. Call (802) 838-8885, Ext. 8282. 
CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL­LEY FOR APPLICATION (S18) 244­
5835. 
FOR SALE 
Country Harvester has put Christmas away and the new nems are here for you to enjoy. Sale on holiday items are at a great bargin price. Lafortune Basement Come check it outl 
Caribbean Cruise-5014N&Disney-31Y.!N $160 No vacation left-must use in 88-Call Mark 259-981814317(after 5) 
For Sale, Smrth Corona Typerwriter Call Don 271-0653 
Great Hockey Equipment--Call Don 271­0653 
TICKETS 
Need 2 GA's and 1 student, or 4 GA's lor Kansas game. call Bill 1605 
Will pay cash andk>r trade UCLA Gas for 2 Kansas Gas or stud. call 2287 
HELP I NEED KANSAS TICKETS CALL MIKE AT X1597 
PLEASE I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR KANSAS GAME. CALL MARY 288-5818. 
NEED 4 KANSAS G.A. OR STUD. TIX DESPARATELYI CALL JOHN AT x3111. 
I need 3 UCLA tix stud or GA call 277­7137 
PERSONALS 
BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ATTENTION FORMER MALE HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga­nize a Howard gathering during the hall socials after the JPW dinner. If you would be interested in attending, and we know you will, call Kevin Walsh al X3609 and sign up. We need everybody signed up by January 27 and the sooner you sign up the better, so call nowl Also, whenever you see other Howard guys tell them alboutthis. Thanks. 
HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY, KATY 
Love, Kim 
RESPECT LIFE 
It is a great poverty to decide that a child must die that you may live as you wish­·Mother Theresa RESPECT LIFEI 
Sell old texts for $$$. Pandoras -808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30. Also save $ on used books. 

SHILTS ENTERPRISES IS BACK IN BUSINESSII!!II ONCE AGAIN, WE ARE ALL JUST VICTIMS OF THE PARTYIII 
BEANHEAD BEANHEAD BEANHEAD BEANHEAD BEANHEAD DOES PICAS­SO ... COMING TO A GALLERY NEAR YOU! 
JOHN: TWO YEARS, DEFINITELY NOT TOO LONG IIIII YOU HAVE MADE THEM THE BEST. HAPPY ANNIVERSARY, POOKIE. SAME TIME NEXT YEAR. I LOVE YOU FOREVER! WE LOVE YOU, MARY SUE AND CLAUDE. 
•••••JOEL"*** Happy Aniversarylll One year ago I found the most caring, handsome and romantic guy at NO. Care to make It a double?! 
Love always and forever, 
Kathy 

Please let me show you the way out of the hell in which you are living. You are so incredibly, you know, beautilul to me. You are good enough lor me. Do you believe me? 
J.C., EVEN WITHOUT LEGOS YOU ARE AMAZING I -C. 
Happy 21 , CLEVELAIII -P. 
TYPICAL YOU--TYPICAL YOU-­TYPICAL YOU YOU STARTED SOME­THING ... HAPPY ONE YEAR, KATHY POLACHECKI--THANK YOU LOVE, JOEL 
SUGARLOAF MTN. $180 INCLUDES MEALS,BUS,ROOM,LESSON,LIFT nx SIGN UP 2nd LFSC 2-4PM NO & SMC FROSH TRIP 
HAPPY 19TH MR. LIME JELLOI I'VE GOT MY MIND SET ON SHMOO!!! 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY, WOMI HAPPY 21st, Ell YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU FEEL THE NEED TO ROCK, YOU CAN AL­WAYS WEAR PANTS. THEN AGAIN, YOU COULD WEAR PANTS. THIS COULD HAPPEN TO YOUI LEGALIZE ITI 
TO THE SEXY DUDE WHO LEFT HIS UNDERWEAR HANGING FROM A TREE OFF OF FARLEY'S PEBBLE BEACH, ARENT YOUR BUNS COLD? 
There once was a girl from PE 
Who could run as fasl as can be. 
To get off her chest 

Her schoolwork and the rest, 
She bounced down to get her laundry. 
To the girl who ran to the PE laundry room Wednesday nite: Thanksll I'd like to get to know you. Call Jeff X2395 
ATTENTiON INVITED FISH EN­THUSIESTS, HEAVY DRINKERS AND HONORED GUESTS Remember::: The Aquarium Warming Party Tonight -BE THERE. •• We tank you for your support. 
SAVE THE TURTLE Loving turtle needs new home. Has provided us wrth many hours of entertainment. Answers to the name FLASH. Any REASONABLE offer will not be refused. This is NOT a joke. £308&3085 -ask for Tim, Jay, or John. SAVE FLASH 
FEMALE AUDmONS 
for Cavanaugh hall's production of 
"The Best Man," a political farce by Gore Vidal, 
will be held in rm 118 Niewland on Mon­day, Jan.25 and Tuesday, Jan.26 at 7:30pm. 
Jeff-SJ-Beside, through, and with you, I learn of the world, myse~. and you. Thanks! 
TOTDTDTDTDTDTD!! TDTDTDTDTDTDTD! THE WITCHBOARD IS CALLING!! 
BRUTEI by Fabraje. How nice. 
BRARE STREAKER I Don't have TOO MUCH FUN at your SYR!! 
James must have a miniscule nosalll! 
o say can you see by the dome's glowing light what so proudly we sail from the top of our tree whose wide briefs with blue stripes fly silently in the night... 
JIM'Betsy Ross'WINKLER ... your flag's a'flappiing in the wind!!l 
THE ODD COUPLE THE ODD COUPLE You thought you and your roommate weren't a match? 
KEENAN REVUE 
KEENAN REVUE The first name in campus entertainment is coming January 28,29,30. THE KEENAN REVUE IS COMINGI!IIIfll 
SARAH "LAME DUCKESS" HAMIL­TON, THANK YOU FOR THE WONDERFUL COOKBOOK. SURPRISED TO SEE MY RECIPES IN IT. REMEMBER THE "DRUGS" IN YOUR MAILBOX FOR THE DIP? LOVE, OLD WIFE 
Found: Gold bracelet in South Dining Hall on Wednesday, Jan. 20. Engraved name inside. Come by the dining hall to identify. 
I had a dream ... To have a SAGA fashion show. 
That dream has now came a reality. Thanks to all who made it great: Quack, Kelly, Judy, Mary, and Nik (for the socks). 
Now let's make SAGA olympics another dream come true. 
SAGA LIVES 
DAYTONA DAYTONA SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA-ROUND TRIP,? NIGHTS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS 3382 NOW! 
To A. of 143, looking forward to Pop Far­ley. It is albout time that we partied. Yours, M of 447. P.S. You looked great today. 
NO & SMC FRESHMEN SKfSUGARLOAF 
FRESHMAN SKIING SKI SUGARLOAF FEB.19-21 SIGN UP TODAY FROSH OFFICE 
JUNIORS ...... CHICAGO TRfP ........ JUNIORS 
JUNIORS ......... CHICAGO 

TRtP ........... JUNIORS 
Sign up In the Junior Clau olllce 
Wed., Thurs., & Fri., 3-5 pm. Pay $11 
when you sign up. 

JUNIORS ............ CHICAGO 
TRIP ........... JUNIORS 
FATHER RICHARD MCBRIEN WILL CELEBRATE MASS FOR THEOLOGY MAJORS AND MINORS ON SUNDAY, JAN. 24 AT 11AM IN THE CHAPEL OF ST. EDWARD'S HAU. BRUNCH WILL FOLLOW. 
Ohhhhhh Baby: I bet you think you're hot. If I knew any better I might avoid you, because you are. But you're cute, and that wrecks things. Pretty? No, just cute. Let's make some memories this weekend. OK? 
MSS Thanks for a great weekend!!! Here's to a great year gone and many more fun times to come! 
Lots of Love, YSB 
PROTEST LEGALIZED ABORTiON FRIDAY, 12:00 NOON 425 N. ST. LOUIS 
SPEAK OUT FOR THOSE WHO CAN'T 
SHE"S GOT BETTY DAVIS EYESIIIII 
SPLASH!I Then the eyes of both of them were opened and they realized they were naked, in the middle of South Quad. ­Book of Stu Chap 1:17 -1THE BUL­LETEERS WERE BORNIII 
there is a SUBstitution for boredom on this campus ITS TIME FOR YOU TO GET INVOLVED IN THE STUDENT UNION BOARD APPLICATIONS FOR COMMISSIONER POSITIONS FOR THE 1988-89 SCHOOL YEAR WILL BE ACCEPTED FROM JAN 25-FEB 1, AVAILABLE AT THE SECRETARY'S OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
TALENTED MALES: 
SHENANIGANS 
IS AUDITIONING MEN TO FILL AN OPENING I CALL DAN AT 3596 WE NEED A SAX, TOO. 
--~-~~------~~---------­
--~---------------~---~~---~~~-----~--­
Friday, January 22, 1988 The Observer page 11 

Vance Johnson may return for Broncos 
Associated Press bleeding and was hospitalized, 
forcing him to miss the AFC 
DENVER -Rejuvenated by a championship game against two-day break, the Super Bowl­Cleveland, won by Denver 38­bound Denver Broncos 33. returned to the practice field Released from the hospital Thursday -without wide on Monday, Johnson has been receiver Vance Johnson. ordered to take it easy until 
Coach Dan Reeves put his doctors are satisfied the torn team through a one-and-a-half blood vessel has repaired itself. hour workout team's indoor practice facility. He has been walking regu­
"Our emphasis right now is larly and applying heat to the on conditioning," Reeves said. leg, but hasn't been allowed to "We did a little work on the do any running. game plan, but we want to save "We're going to hold Vance most of that for next week. We out the rest of the week," won't really focus on Washing­Reeves said, "The doctors ton until we get to San Diego don't want him to do anything on Monday. You don't want to but walk. I don't think we have build up for the game too to worry about him getting out soon." of shape in such a short time. 
Johnson, Denver's leading We think he'll be ready on Mon­receiver, hopes to be ready for day." AP Photo practice next week. "I'm able to run," Johnson Denver Broncos' safety Dennis Smith returns an started preparations for the Super Bowl next Sun­
Johnson suffered a bruised said, "but they don't want me Interception against Seattle early In the season. day. Related stories are at left and below. groin in a playoff game Jan. 10 to. I don't feel weak at all. I not The Broncos and the Washington Redsklns have against Houston. Four days only plan to play, I plan to play later, he developed internal welL" 
Skins' Monk will be back for Super Bowl, 
sively by playing their spread 
offense or their motion of­
Penn 
practices with team after injury layoff 
fense," Phelps said. "We did
continued from page 16 
what we had to do to win. That's Associated Press say and certainly seemed en­defenders with him. He's just a negative it was that we gave how we played. We didn't play couraged that he could be in a great player, by far the best 
great, didn't play lousy. We
them too many second shots. HERNDON, Va. -Art Monk the lineup for the Jan. 31 game receiver on this team." When we got behind we started just played good enough to win. practiced wiith the Washington against the Denver Broncos. Monk's 504 receptions ranks to reach instead of moving our Redskins Thursday for the first "It's great to have Art back," 20th on the NFL career list. The feet. They made their foul shots "One positive for us tonight time in more than six weeks as wide receiver Gary Clark said. eight-year veteran has played which is a sign of a good team." was Sean Connor going five-the team began preparations "I'm sure there's still some in three Pro Bowls and set an 
Irish head coach Digger for-five. He's been struggling for the Super Bowl. pain in his knee, but he's not NFL record when he caught 106 Phelps didn't see anything es-with his outside shooting and I Monk, the No. 2 receiver in letting it show. He's out there passes in 1984. pecially impressive about the think tonight he got his confi­team history, ran pass patterns giving it his all, and that's what "It's great to see him victory except another mark in dence going again. He and agility drills during a two­Art Monk is all about." working out there again," cor­the win column. "Tommy struggles when we go against hour session at Redskin Park. Entering this season, Monk's nerback Barry Wilburn said. (Schneider) did what he had to man-to-man teams because Monk had previously been 270 catches were tops in the "There's nobody like him. do against us, which was to look he's not a man-to-man player working out on his own after NFL over the last three years. Even though he wasn't running to press us into mistakes defen-offensively." being placed on the inactive list Although he was limited to only at full speed, he seems to have 
Dec. 9 with a partially torn 38 receptions this year due to a clock inside his head that tells 
*********************************** 
medial collateral ligament in his injury and the 24-day him when to turn it on.$J.P.'S PIZZA 1511 Portage : his right knee. players' strike, he still com­"He'll be ready for the Super "He looked good out there," mands respect from the oppo­Bowl, no doubt about it." :FREE DELIVERY $ Redskins Coach Joe Gibbs said. sition. 
:Ave. Delivery Time 25-30 min. 234-4151 : "It's something we will evalu­"Having him in there takes Thuraday'a Reaulta 
ate as we go." some of the pressure off me and Notre Dame 67, Pennsylvania 48 Pennsylvania (48) 
* * While Monk refused to talk (wide receiver) Ricky M FG·A FT -A R F PTHIS WEEK ONLY to reporters after the workout, Sanders," Clark said. "You 6 0..() 0-0000 his teammates had plenty to know Art is going to take some 34 1-9 1-2 6 2 3 
12 1-1 0-0 1 5 2 
38 6-10 3-4 3 3 18

6'' PIZZA ~ 
37 6-11 1-2 4 2 14 
10-0 0-0000 
13 1-3 2-2 1 2 4 
25 1-3 0-0 0 1 2 
1 0-1 0-0 0 1 0 
21-10-0002 
4 0-0 0-0020 
3 0-0 0-0000 
1 0-1 1-2 0 0 1 
23 1-2 0..() 0 3 2 
200 16-42 8-12 15 21 44 
I • 

...-----------~-----~~---~--------­
r 
Friday, January 22, 1988
page 12 The Observer 
Women lose to Depaul, face Spartans next 

By THERESA KELLY Muffet McGraw of the loss at cut the margin to three, 43-40, "Losing Diondra was a key," "They (DePaul) had nine, we Sports Writer DePaul, "a typical conference at the half. said McGraw. "Then Sandy had 23." game. We played really well in The game was close in the fouled out. We just don't have The Irish will have to cut 
After putting together a spurts, but so did DePaul. They second half. The Irish had the enough depth on our bench to down on those turnovers to beat three-game winning streak played a good game. They're a lead, 66-62 with just over six lose two starters like that in a Michigan State. The Spartans, which included some of its best really good team." minutes to go, but a rash of really tough game." who play Michigan today, are play in two seasons, the Notre turnovers put DePaul in the The loss was the first North leading the Big Ten with a 4-0 Dame women's basketball The Blue Demons could not lead. The Irish fought back, but Star Conference defeat of the record. They beat eighth team now has a one-game handle the powerful play of the Blue Demons held off the season for the Irish, who fell to ranked Ohio State last week to losing streak. But despite being Irish junior forward Heidi late surge. 10-5 and 2-1 in the conference. take the top spot in the confer­beaten by DePaul Wednesday Bunek, who led the team with "We had a bad span of three DePaul's record now stands at ence. night, 80-77, the Irish are still 25 points and a season-high 20 minutes," said McGraw. "We 11-3 and 2-0 in the conference. maintaining that high level of rebounds. Unfortunately, were winning, but we turned "We played with a lot of in­"They are really an excellent play. DePaul's junior forward Diana the ball over four times in a tensity," said McGraw, "espe­team. It will be tough to play 
Vines poured in 27 points and row. That's how they got back cially at the very end of the with them," predicted 
The team will need it, as the brought down 12 rebounds. in it, that's how they took the game. We made a really nice McGraw. "They have quick Irish travel to Michigan State Notre Dame played a strong lead." comeback. We did a lot of guards, they'll press us. They to take on the Spartans on Sun­first half as freshman Karen The Irish got into foul trouble smart things, we played a have a 6'4" girl who's been day. Robinson had 12 of her 16 points in the end. Diondra Toney and smart game. playing well. They ought to 
"It was a very physical and the Irish led by as many Sandy Botham fouled out, and "Our biggest problem was give our inside game some game," said Irish head coach as 14 before the Blue Demons the comeback was stalled. the turnovers," she said. competition." 
Forsman leads Hope golf 
Associated Press front of first-round leader Jay Haas. 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -Dan "I felt like some sort of artist Forsman extricated himself out there. I'd just throw my from trees and a totem pole to brush up there and the painting somehow shoot a career-best 62 was perfect," said Forsman, that gave him the second-round who was entangled in trees on lead Thursday in the $1 million eight occasions and had to con­Bob Hope Classic. tend with a decorative totem 
"Weird, strange, extraordi­pole on another. nary," Forsman said of his ad­His card showed nine birdies, ventures, which reached a an eagle and one bogey for ''the peak on the 18th hole at Indian best round of my PGA tour Wells. He invented a shot from career." the wrong fairway, then com­"Real strange," said pleted a 10-under-par effort by Forsman, who also played a sinking an eagle putt. carom off a cart path and fre­
"It came off just the way I quently was forced ''to be in­envisioned it," Forsman said. ventive. A really weird day." 
This one, one of several Forsman, winner of two titles which he called "creative in his career, made a 25-footer shots," was played from under from the fringe as one of five the fronds of one group of consecutive birdies on the palms and through a little front, which he played in 30. opening in another group. The He dropped a 30-footer on the 
ball then cut right and found lOth, bogeyed the 11th from the the green. palms, then spent most of the 
He finished it off with a 10-rest of the day performing es­foot putt for eagle that gave cape acts. him a 5-under-par score for the Haas had a 68 at La Quinta. day on the par-5 holes. The tournament format calls 
He completed two rounds of for the 128 pros to play one this five-day, 90-hole tourna­round on each of four desert ment with a score of 130, 14 courses, each day with a differ­strokes under par and one in ent amateur team. 
Mike Tyson battles James "Bonecrusher" Smith confident heading Into tonight's heavyweight In a title match last year. Tyson is exceedingly championship fight. The story Is below. 
Tyson, Holmes cocky before fight 
Associated Press believe nobody in the world can stage of his career," said Eddie beat me." Futch, who trained Holmes for 
ATLANTIC CITY -Mike "He's made for me," Holmes 12 title fights. Tyson, the youngest said. "Face fighters are made Holmes feels his 21-month heavyweight champion in his­for me. I can punch going back. layoff has been good for him, tory, and Larry Holmes, who Boxers give me trouble." but most boxing people feel a could become the oldest, will A face fighter is one who fighter cannot restore what fight Friday night at the Con­leaves himself open while at­time and age have eroded. vention Center. tacking. The former champion has 
Holmes, a 38-year-old Tyson is an attacker, and trained in seclusion for several grandfather who announced that is an important part of his weeks at his hometown of Eas­his retirement Nov. 6, 1986, defense. He keeps an opponent ton, Pa. He didn't arrive at At­would suceed Jersey Joe Wal­busy defending himself. lantic City until Wednesday af­cott as the oldest champion. The champion, who weighed ternoon. 
Walcott was 37 when he in at 215 pounds Thursday, pos­knocked out Ezzard Charles in sesses excellent quickness and Still recognized as champion the seventh round July 18, 1951. handspeed. by the International Boxing 
"They'll say I'm too old, Holmes, who weighed 225, Federation, Holmes defended washed up, can't fight had a great left jab, but in his that title three times before anymore," Holmes said of his last several fights it lacked its losing it to Michael Spinks on decision to come out of retire­old snap and accuracy. The a close, but unanimous decision ment. bounce was gone from his legs. Sept. 22, 1985. He lost the 
Upon leaving the offical "Larry doesn't have the rematch on a split decision in weigh-in Thursday, Holmes physical capabilities at this his last fight April 19, 1986. said, ··~·n win. I'll fool 
everybod:-' . ' ' 'i:l..OIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIY, "I don make predictions, !§ Definition: Goal -when the puck enters from [§ but I can :· ;sure you a victory," [§ the front passes between the cage posts below [§ the 21-ye; ·-old Tyson said. ! the top of the net and completely across the ~ 
Tyson i~ 'n overwhelming fa­i goal line. i vorite to ' . n the scheduled 12-i For several good examples join us at the ~ round fight at the 16,000-seat 
!§ J.A.C.C. ~ 
Convention Center. It will be 
= Notre Dame = 
televised by HBO at about 10: 27 
p.m. EST. 
"I believe I'm the best fighter in world," said Tyson. 
I l'rid.:,0::d:~~:a~\~o p.m. I 
"I believe he had his era. I §liiJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIii 

Sophomore goalie 
Madson leads Irish 
By SEAN S. HICKEY he will break the record for Sports Writer most victories by an Notre Dame goaltender, 20, set by 
When the Notre Dame Mark Kronholm in 1972-75. hockey team has needed a With a streaking Madson in strong performance in goal this goal, Notre Dame hopes to season, sophomore Lance Mad­sweep the Bison of North son has consistently been there Dakota State this weekend. The to deny the opposition. Bison, though only a club team, 


"He has given good support don't look to be easy opponents and been there when the rest however, with three consecu­of the team has not been tive seasons as national club playing good hockey," said champions. The first game is Coach Ric Schafer. "He's a tonight in the Joyce Athletic hard worder and vastly im­and Convocation Center, with proved his handling of the another following tomorrow 
puck." Madson, a native of night. Both games will be at Minnetonka, Minnesota, has 7:30PM. had 13 victories in goal this With 14 games remaining, 
season en route to helping the Irish must continue to rack Notre Dame compile a record up the wins to capture an NCAA 15-2-2. berth, since only one indepen­"He's a good standup dent team can qualify for the 
goaltender and plays the NCAA's. angles well. He stays sharp "Our biggest test is in two throughout the game and stays weeks against Air Force. 
on top of his game," said They've knocked off several Schafer. "I'm hard pressed to highly ranked teams," said think of any weak goals allowed Schafer. 
by him." "We're in pretty good posi­
On December 4, Madson tion to win the ACHA," agreed earned a shutout against Madson. "I think we could Arizona while Notre Dame realistically win the rest of our eventually triumphed, 10-0. It games." was the first shutout by an Irish With the wins piling up in the goaltender in 120 games. The victory column, the Notre record for shutouts in a season Dame hockey team seems des­is two set by Jim Crowley tined for a great season. (one of the famous Four Horse­"We have a good team. We're men) in 1921. Assuming Mad­playing good hockey, and we Lance Madson has led the Irish to a 15-2-2 record Megargee this weekend's series with North son will manage at least a .500 have a good goaltender," sum-with steady goaltendlng throughout the season. Dakota State below. record in the remaining games, marized Schafer. · Sean Hickey features Madson at left and Steve 
Hockey team to face Bison as win streak continues 
By STEVE MEGARGEE "We're just playing pretty American Collegiate Hockey prolific career scorer in Notre tounding 6.60 goals per game Sports Writer good hockey right now," said Association. Dame history last weekend this season. first-year Irish coach Ric "They play predominantly a with his five goal, three assist On defense, sophomore 
When Notre Dame students Schafer. "It will be great to be Division III schedule," said performance at Army. goalie Lance Madson has an last saw their hockey team, the playing hockey in front of a Schafer. "They're one of the .887 save percentage leads a Irish had just ended a 10-game partisan crowd. Here's our few teams to beat Michigan­In 18 games this season, unit that has allowed just two unbeaten streak and were off chance to live up to all the at­Dearborn, so they've got to be McNeill's 17 goals and 28 as­and a half goals per game to the best start in their history. tention we've gained recent­a pretty decent team." sists give him a team-leading during Notre Dame's six-game 
The Irish return to the JACC ly." The senior trio of forwards 45 points. That already exceeds winning streak. Madson has al­this weekend, and as far as the While North Dakota State's Mike Duffy, Jim Mikkelson and his 37-point production from a lowed only six goals in his last team's success is concerned, hockey program is on club Alan Burke lead the Bison year ago, in which he also led four appearances. things haven't changed much status, the Bisons have had suc­scoring attack. North Dakota the Irish in scoring. at all. cess competing with varsity State has won the national club Of course, McNeill has been Schafer only hopes the Irish 
North Dakota State comes to teams. Having won the last title every year since Bison far from the only player continue to emphasize the the JACC tonight at 7:30 p.m. three national club champion­coach Dave Morinville took the producing for Notre Dame this areas he feels has made the to face an Irish squad that ships, the Bisons have a win helm. season. After averaging only team successful so far this sports a 15-2-2 record and holds over Michigan-Dearborn to For the Irish, Mike McNeill 3.33 goals per game last season, year. a six-game winning streak. The their credit this season. The has led the way on offense. The when the Irish finished with a "We have to continue to play two teams will meet again on Irish split a series with Dear­senior center and South Bend disappointing 10-19-1 record, good defensive hockey, to play Saturday night at 7:30p.m. born, currently leading the native became the ninth most Notre Dame has scored an as-unselfishly and play with dis­

Th,,~ night belongs to Michelob: 
Exceptionally smooth Michelob in 6-packs 

cipline," said Schafer. "We've been good sportsmen on the ice. We've avoided all sorts of un­necessary penalties. 
"We're not an awesome hockey team," Schafer stated. "We're good because we're diligent and hardworking. We've worked together as a team." 
SLAP SHOTS-Notre Dame is ranked as the fifth-best inde­pendent program in the nation. One independent in the country will earn a spot in the NCAA Championships... For the second time this season, McNeill was named the ACHA 

player of the week. McNeill was recognized for his seven­point performance in the Irish sweep at Army... The Irish have drawn over 1000 people to seven of the nine home games this season ... Notre Dame still is in second place in the ACHA, behind Dearborn, and ahead of Lake Forest and Kent State ... The Irish will be at home for the next four weekends. After this weekend's series, Kent State, Air Force and Villanova come to the JACC... Notre Dame has an penalty-killing efficiency percentage of .825. 
J 

...r~----pa-g~e~14--~· ·--~-------~--------T-he observer 
Friday, January 22, 1988 
Men's, women's tennis teams 
face spring 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
Both the men's and women's 
tennis teams are optimistic in 
anticipation of their spring 
openers this weekend. 
The men's squad hosts West­
ern Michigan on Saturday in 
the Eck Tennis Pavilion, while 
the women's team travels to 
Minnesota for the Gopher 
Doubles Invitational, held 
Friday through Sunday. 
"I would think we're a slight 
favorite (against Western Mic­
higan)," remarked first-year 
men's coach Bob Bayliss. 
"Both schools are minus their 
number one player. Tim Carr 
is out for us, and their number 
one player transferred to Iowa. 
We beat them up there last 
year. Plus, we have a very 
promising freshman class, and 
I don't think they have that." 

In any event, Western Mic­higan is only the first obstacle in a grueling schedule which features Ohio State, Miami of Ohio, Harvard, and Southern Illinois, among others. 
openers over weekend 
"On paper, we've got our hands full," admits Bayliss. "But we want to play good teams. (Former Irish coach) Tom Fallon left me with an ex­tremely good group of guys, and we're all excited about the spring season." 
The Irish men are led by junior Brian Kalbas and soph­omore Mike Wallace, who are expected to compete for the number one spot on the team. Freshman Ryan Winger will most likely play in the third po­sition, while senior captain Dan Walsh provides the quiet lead­ership essential to the success of the team. Unfortunately, the Irish will most likely be without the services of senior Paul Daggs, who is recovering from the flu. 
The women's squad, mean­while, prepares to defend its North Star Conference title, but must first do battle with the likes of Northwestern, Iowa, Drake, and Southwest State, which comprise the Gopher field. 
"We've been concentrating on doubles lately," explained women's coach Michelle Gelfman. "With the return of (sophomore) Alice Lohrer, our lineup will be almost the same as at the beginning of the year." 
Surely, the recent news of freshman Ce Ce Cahill's invita­tion to play in the prestigious Rolex Indoor Championships in February will motivate the team to perform well this weekend. 
Cahill and senior Michelle Dasso make up Gelfman's top doubles combination. Sopho­more Stephanie Tolstedt and Lohrer occupy the second posi­tion, while junior Natalie Illig and freshman Kim Pacella play at number three. Sopho­more Resa Kelly will be sidelined for the remainder of the season due to a knee injury. 
As the season begins to un­fold, Bayliss no doubt speaks for both coaches when he en­thuses, "I'm very tickled to be coaching at Notre Dame. I feel a tremendous responsibility to place a team on the court which Notre Dame can be proud of." 
t. 
,. ~ AP ,Photo. 

Stefan Edberg of Sweden was outlasted In five 
finals of the Australian Open yesterday. Wllander 

sets by countryman Mats Wllander In the semi-will face either Pat Cash or Ivan Lendl. 
Manning driven by Phelps' words! 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCE, Kansas Danny Manning says the 40 points he scored last year against Notre Dame were not enough to repay Coach Digger Phelps for comments he made about Manning's father. 
Manning said the comments will provide motivation again when the Jayhawks and the Irish play Saturday afternoon in a nationally-televised game in South Bend, Ind. 
Phelps made his comments after Manning's father, Ed Manning, a former truck driver, was hired as an assis­tant at Kansas the year before Danny began playing for the Jayhawks. 
"It was a very big influ­ence," Manning said, referring to his play in Kansas' 70-60 win last year. "I didn't really care for the things he said ... I can't talk about it. It's a personal thing." 
Kansas Coach Larry Brown quoted Phelps as saying it was a disgrace that a school could hire a truck driver to become a basketball coach. 
Brown said he reminded Manning of the comment before the game last year and 
he plans to mention it again before saturday's game.
Ed Manning said Phelps has never apologized for the remark, but he is not interested 
~r.i·!~;f~:,;~:::.:~: 
what the comments were 
~va~n~~~~~~~n~~;ms~~~-s~~~ 
It wasn't something that would bother you because it really 
didn't matter." 
~ 
··~ 

AP Photo 
Kansas' Danny Manning pulls down a rebound In front of Marco Baldi of St. John's earlier this season. Manning claims that com­ments made by Digger Phelps about Manning's father will spur him on against the Irish this Saturday. Details appear at bottom left. 
!f''''"'· 
t
{t 
( 
:_;·~.:~::~_: 
} 
~~~~ 
;:;: 
::;: 
:~:~
f 
:::: 
~:~:
_:.. 
:::: 
ilil 
:;:; 
~;~; 

tL:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::)? 
LU ~~ ~~~~ :::;:::::>::::::::::;:;::~:~:::::~:;:;;;:~~;;:~:.;;.:.<
:r:CLUB-:-:-:-:-:-:-:;:-:·:·::=:
1-->
i 
~ 
:1:1
fRI D A " _:!_:~::.:_:~ 
,..... 1 

50¢ DRAFT 
1: 
[~~1HOT CHOCOLATE WITH 75 A:.~.:~ PEPPE'RM\NT ~C.HMAPPS 'to :·: :·:·
5 A -ruRDA~ :j~j
I""'\ 1 ·· 
~=~ 
:~: 
MILLER ~=~~75~t •••• 
STRAWBERRY ~=~ 
DAIQU( R ( 75¢ :~:
S ::; 
\ 

DELIVERY ALL DAY! 
UdlmlrS-­
a inch  or  12 inch  -WHITE OR  
WHEAT  
Pepperoni-Meatball  
French Dip  

Ham, Roast Beef, Turkey Vegetarian Corned Beef Tuna Salad Pastrami Chicken Salad Pepperoni Italian-Ham, Salami, Pepperoni Meatball Your choice at no extra charge: lettuce, onions, tomatoes, mayo, mustard, italian dressing, Swiss, American, Mozzerella, or Provolone cheese, black olives, Jalepenos, banana peppers, and pickles. 
272-H/KE Open 10 'til 10 everyday 4453 18109 S.R. 23 W. of Campus 

Campus · 
Friday 
12:15-1 p.m.: Friday Forum at the CSC for Faculty and Staff. "Honor and the Self," by Professor Frederick Crosson, ND. Room 124 CSC. 
3:30 p.m.: Aerospace-Mechanical Department Seminar, "An Experimental In­vestigation of the Transition and Structural Development of the Planar Turbulent Jet," by Flint Thomas, Oklahoma State University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 7 p.m.: Wrestling vs. Clarion State in Joyce ACC Auxiliary Gym. 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Series, "My Life as a Dog," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey vs. North Dakota State, JACC Ice Arena. 
Saturday 
8 a.m.-3 p.m.: Graduate Management Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium. 2 p.m.: Concert by vocalist Theresa Martin in Annenberg Auditorium, concert open to public and free. 
7:30 p.m.: Basketball vs. Kansas, JACC. 
Sunday 
1:30 p.m.: Concert by cellist Karen Buranskas and pianist William Cerny in Annenberg Auditorium, sponsored by Chopin Fine Arts Club, concert free and open to public. 7 p.m.: Urban Plunge Follow-Up Discussion, Library Auditorium. 8 p.m.: Concert by organist Gail Walton in Sacred Heart Church, concert free 
and open to public. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Grilled Ruben Sandwich Beer Batter Perch Quiche Lorraine Stuffed Shells with Sauce 
Saint Mary's 
Fish Parisian French Bread Pizza Vegetable Kabobs Deli Bar 

We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Sandarac tree 5 Remain 9 Freshet 
14 Lugosl 15 Tra ­16 "The -Auld 
Lang Syne" 
(Whittier) 17 Came down 18 Gen. Bradley 19 Motionless 20 Stopgap 
measure 22 Chlckenllke 
game birds 23 Face part 24 Road sign 26 Perceive 29 Fishes 33 Giraffe's 
cousin 37 Be playful 39 Othello's 
friend 40 Shackle 41 Mrs. Cantor 42 Gaseous 

element 43 Mountain pool 44 Judge 45 Near 46 Street sign 48 Secular 50 Hastens 52 Cloudllke sky 
patch 57 Levies 60 Bowling Item 63 Bay window 64 To shelter 65 -Impasse 
(stuck) 66 Cunning 67 Luna 68 Not any 69 Wrong 70 Confined 71 Numbers 

DOWN 1 Demean 2 Kind of race 3 "-of ease Is 
not for any man" (Carlisle) 
&1988 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
4 Badgerllke animal 
5 Manual training systems 
6 Pack down 7 Jal­8 Tales 9 VIetnam port 
10 Ms Grable e.g. 11 VIcinity 12 Tattered 13 Salamanders 21 Link 25 Spigot 27 --dleu 28 Alpine song 30 Lake: lt. 31 Selves 32 Loudness unit 33 Eight: pref. 34 Genghls ­35 Swiss river 36 Fireworks 38 Parent 42 Music dlr. 44 Coloring 


Comics 
Bloom County 
I'rJ tiKe TO IIP0/..06fle FO!?. Y€5~RfliiYS 
V!Ol£NT OUTBIIRST, 
OPt/5. IT WfiS VfRY 
UNUK£ 111e ... I 
Calvin and Hobbes 
r 1/J/'1/ 8f!T 7H€Y
vWW\ MilK€ fl 
... f?Anl/l /. MeliNnriYIV,(/ Ff/KRY Hf1r.tI 1/NIJ VOflKfl./ 0/../VeR !'... 
\ 

47 Passageways 49 Start a 
paragraph 51 Rascal 53 Gambling 
game 54 Author Sinclair 
01/22/88 
55 VIne 56 Wives of 
Henry VIII 57 Roman garb 58 Calla e.g. 59 13 61 Afr. plant 62 Lighting gas 
· 
Berke Breathed 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
AARrbH.f 
Bill Watterson 

"Well, this may not be wise on a first date, but I just goHa try your garlic wharf rats." 



,.,-----------­
.... ---­
I ..r­
~ 

s orts 
page 16 

Irish romp 67-48 over hapless Penn 
David Rivers shot three-for­By DENNIS CORRIGAN eight from the field (0-for-five
Sports Editor 
in the first half). Rivers 

Notre Dame's 67-48 victory finished with 19 (11 from the over Pennsylvania Thursday stripe) to lead the scoring. night was a lot like the postman But the Quakers were hard with the little dog nipping at his to shake, especially in the first heels. Yes, the mail got half. Quaker guard Walt through, but it wasn't anything Frazier, not known for his to write home about. shooting, finished with 18 
The Irish did get some spe­points, as Penn stayed close cial delivery in the form of throughout the opening half. Sean Connor. Connor, who had Notre Dame was up by only been in a shooting slump of one, 27-26, with just over four late, came off the bench in the minutes left in the half and the second half to hit on five-of-five Quakers had the game at their attempts from the field and tempo. spark the Irish to their lOth win But in the second half, of the year. sparked by Connor, the Irish 
"I didn't come in and right began to slowly pull away from off the bat start shooting from Penn. Rivers began penetrat­three-point territory," Connor ing and drawing fouls. Notre said afterward. "That's been Dame shot 28-of-30 from the gift my main problem. Coach line for the game. That along Phelps told me in practice yes­with a 29-19 rebounding margin terday to start shooting the 12-(including 10 offensive boards) to-15 foot jumper. Once I get spelled another loss for the 2-9 my rhythm back, then start Quakers. moving out. That's what I did. "I was very pleased with the 
"It felt good. This is a good effort that our guys gave feeling to finally come in to against such a good team," play up to my potential and my said Penn head coach Tom role on the team." Schneider. "We seem to have 
Connor's second-half come of age lately. I felt we jumpers and Mark Stevenson's executed tonight. If there was 11 first-half points wwere keys 
Mark Stevenson (24) goes up for the jam In last
to to the Irish on a night when see PENN, page 11 
night's 67-48 thrashing of Pennsylvania. The Irish are now 10-4 heading into tomorrow's home 
Jayhawks soar into JACC as the game's best collide 
By MARTY STRASEN ning averaged almost 24 points more to become the fourth shall, who hurt his knee both points) starts at point guard, Assistant Sports Editor per game last year, and was player in NCAA history to score last year and the year before, while 6-8 senior Chris Piper (3.8 named to just about everyone's 2,000 points, grab 1,000 went down with an injury to his points) and 6-4 junior Milt New­
The best player in the nation. all-America team. rebounds and shoot 60 percent. other knee in a Dec. 30 game ton (7.3 points) fill the forward That's what a lot of people in Manning scores 23.7 points a The other three are David Rob­against St. John's. Marshall positions. the world of college basketball game this year for Kansas head inson, Lew Alcindor and was averaging more than 10 Brown, because of injuries are calling Danny Manning this coach Larry Brown, and Patrick Ewing. Manning cur­points a game before the injury and the ineligibility of Branch, year. Brown's 12-4 Jayhawks enter rently is shooting 59.8 percent and is expected to miss Satur­experimented with seven dif­
But if Manning plays any bet­Saturday's game ranked 16th from the field. day's contest. ferent starting lineups already ter against Notre Dame at the (Associated Press) in the na­But Kansas could be in trou­Junior-college transfer Mar­this season. This will be the Joyce ACC on Saturday (2:30 tion. ble if the Irish can do what they vin Branch, 6-10, is academi­third time in a row that the p.m., NBC) than he did against The Irish are 10-4, following failed to do last season -keep cally ineligible for the game. group expected to start Satur­the Irish last season, Irish fans a 67-48 home victory Thursday Manning's numbers down. Branch was scoring 9.0 points day takes the floor for the might just start calling him night over defending Ivy For starters, Manning takes and pulling down 7.0 rebounds opening tip. something a little bit more League champion Pennsylva­more than half of Kansas' per contest before he lost his "When you talk about great obscene. nia. shots. eligibility. players, you can put David 
The 6-10 center-forward "He's got to be the leading Add to that fact a key injury The only Kansas starter be­Rivers and Danny Manning at scored 40 points in the candidate for Player of the and another ineligible starter, sides Manning who averages the top of the list," Irish head Jayhawks' 70-60 victory over Year," Brown says of Man­and Notre Dame has a chance double-figures in scoring is 6-3 coach Digger Phelps said. Notre Dame in Lawrence, ning. to pull off another of its guard Kevin Pritchard. The "Both are candidates for Kan., last February, hitting 16-The senior also leads the familiar upsets in the Joyce sophomore off-guard hit 36-of-Player of the Year. It's great of-21 shots from the field and Jayhawks in rebounds with 8.4 ACC. 88 three-point shots last season. attraction when you start with adding eight free throws. Man-per game, and needs just 21 Senior forward Archie Mar-Junior Otis Livingston (3.6 those two." 
•

Wrestlers n1p MSU 
Special to the Observer better tournament-wrestling team than we are when we 
The Notre Dame wrestling wrestle dual meets. team pulled out a squeaker "We needed wins at our six over the Michigan State Spar­strongest weights, and we got tans, 23-20, at East Lansing last five out of six" night. Next for the Irish will be 
Clarion State, a confusing team 
The Irish got wins from Andy 
in that it has finished in the top Radenbaugh (118), Jerry Durso five teams in the country in(134) , Todd Layton ( 150) , Mark each of the last two years, butGerardi (158), and Chris limps into Notre Dame with anGeneser (177). Although the 0-8 record. Still, McCann two teams won five falls each, refuses to underrate his up­the difference proved to be the coming opponent. 
two pins of the Irish, by "They were a powerhouseGerardi and Geneser, over only 
when we scheduled them," said one by the Spartans. 
McCann, "and two years ago they killed us (32-8). They al­McCann expected a tough ways seem to be in the top ten battle despite burying Mic­or twenty every year. They're
higan State earlier in the year. a tough, physical, streetfight­"A couple of months ago we ing type of team. It should be 
went to their invitational and a good meet." The Notre Dame wrestling team squeezed out a Irish face Clarion State tonight In the Pit. Details we won the whole thing," said 
The two teams square off 
23-20 decision over Michigan State last night. The appear at right. 
McCann, "but we're a much tonight in the Pit at 7:00. 



