

' I I 
. :o: Go figure 
····---l

I I '
Irish Extra 
etc. 
Mostly sunny and cool Friday. High in the middle

@ 
Notre Dame 
Music Scene 
40s. Very cool Friday night with increasing cloudiness

vs. SMU 
Three new releases toward morning. 
VOL. XXII, NO. 52 
· the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame ·and Saint Mary's 

Lottery for housing only a 'remote possibility' 
Housing contracts will be dis­lated a formula for determin­By JIM WINKLER tributed when students return ing how each dorm stands with in January and will be due on 25 percent of its available space 
Staff Reporter 
February 2. The advance en­reserved for freshmen. For
i 
I 
It is "only a remote possibil­rollment is due March 1. that formula, Reienebold took ity'' that a lottery would be held Accordin~ to the letter from into account the number of re­
in any dorm for next year's Student Residences, students turning seniors, juniors, and 
housing, said Evelyn who turn in a housing contract sophomores-to-be, the number Reinebold, director of Student but fail to advance enroll will of freshmen who would equal 
' 
Residences. be placed behind freshmen and 25 percent of capacity, and the The only students who will be the "late contract" students. number of students who tend to put on waiting lists will be those Reinebold said that she is move off-campus each year. 
who fail to return their housing concerned that students have Once examining these for­
r
' contract andlor fail to pay their misunderstood the letter and mulas, Reinebold noted that advance enrollment fee on time its purpose. "The purpose of "there is no hall in any real next spring, . according to this letter was to formalize the problem except Dillon perhaps Reinebold. procedures. We want everyone and maybe Stanford." In a letter sent to .all current to turn in their contracts on No female dorm is in danger freshmen, sophomores, and time, and we don't want fresh­of having a lottery, Reine bold juniors, Student Residences in­men in study lounges," added . . dicated that 25 percent of each Reinebold said,. Reinebold said that lotteries dorm will be blocked off for in­Late contracts have been a can be avoided because move­coming freshmen prior to ·problem in the past~ Reinebold ment off-campus is generally 


roompicks next April. 
The letter continues, "If more students turn in contracts than the hall has room for : 1.) Students will be given an option to transfer t!> another hall or 2.) a hall lottery may be used to determine a waiting list for the hall ... " 
The letter also stated that "students submitting late con­tracts will be put on a waiting list and assigned rooms only after freshmen are as­signed .... Those students sub­
Michael Novak, Welch professor of American studies, spoke at the Center 
mitting late contracts shall not 
for Continuing Education, Thursday, in the lecture entitled, "Choosing 
be permitted to participate in 
Our King." (See story p.5). 
room picks." 
Mack edges out MacKay in tight Florida Senate. race 
Associated Press telephone. "It's very exciting. 30,000 votes, more than enough "I don't know the exact word to avoid the automatic recount 
MIAMI--Conservative Re­to use ... Th~re's been a great that would be triggered if the publican Rep. Connie Mack III· deal of anxiety. It's been long, difference was less than about won a cliffhanger Senate race it's been tough, but I felt all 20,000. Thursday over Rep. Kenneth along that my message of more Campaign Manager Greg "Buddy" MacKay, a moderate freedom; free markets, Farm.er said MacKay, who Democrat, for the seat being 
remained at his home in relinquished by Democratic Ocala's historic district, Sen. Lawton Chiles. planned a conference call with 
Mack's narrow victory, legal counsel to discuss taking based on absentee ballots still the election to court, as Farmer being counted, decided the last recommended. of this year's 33 Senate. races. "We may have to ask the fat It means the Democrats will lady for an encore," Farmer have a 55-45 majority, a gain said. "Something's screwy of one seat, in the new U.S. sen­with those numbers." ate. 
Several media sources, in­•. 7'· Farmer said that the way
,.'·-11< :
cluding The Observer, races were listed on the ballots projected on Wednesday a ~ may have confused voters in MacKay victory based on early some counties. He cited three
Rep. Connie Mack
election returns. counties where more votes 
But while Mack claimed vic­freedom from taxes, freedom were cast for president than tory, MacKay did not immedi­as an objective of our foreign Senate: Hillsborough County,ately concede and his cam­policy, would come through where the difference was paign manager said there clearly," said Mack, 48-year­nearly 60,000; Palm Beach, might be a legal challenge be­old grandson of the a·aseball where it was nearly 52,000; and cause of what he called ir­Hall of Fame manager. Dade, nearly 49,000. regularities in some vote to­The AP's latest tally showed MacKay, 55, was doing some tals. Mack with 2,044,575 votes, or 50 gardening, and also had told his 
"I think at this point the num­percent, to MacKay's 2,014,924 staff he would be praying and bers are conclusive," Mack votes, also 50 percent. That told The Associated Press by gave Mack a margin of nearly see MACK, page 7 said. 
Last year, 80 students turned in their contracts late and were still allowed to choose rooms. Usually this throws off Student Residences' estimates and forces freshmen into study lounges, said Reinebold. 
Reinbold added, "Freshmen shouldn't be penalized because some upperclassmen are ir­responsible and didn't turn in forms on time." 
A committee of four rectors, two students, and Reinebold discussed this issue and put to­gether the letter. 
In addition, Reinebold calcu­consistent from year-to-year and because the 25 percent freshmen requirement is not binding. 
"Based on the numbers Ad­missions has given me, some dorms may have more than 25 percent. However, if one dorm has 5 extra people and another has 5less than capacity, we will readjust the freshmen quotas,'' Reinebold said. 
For example, for next year, Alumni Hall stands to be in po­sition to have no extra people once Resident Assistants are 
see HOUSE, page .7 

Texas is selected as site for Supercollider 
Associated Press decision declaring Texas the 
preferred site for what the 

WASHINGTON--Texas department will name the 
beat out· six other states Ronald Reagan Center for 
Thursday in-a high-stakes High Energy Physics. 
race to capture the $4.4 bil­Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., 
lion superconducting super and Sen. Dennis DeConcini, 
collider, which, if Congress D-Ariz., said they were as­
finds the money to build it, king Reagan and president­
would-be the largest scien­elect George Bush to halt 
tific instrument ever · con­confirmation of the site until 
structed. the General Accounting Of­
The announcement by En­fice reviews the choice and ergy Department Secretary an independent commission John Herrington drew imme­evaluates Herrington's diate howls of protest from rationale. the six losing states, where Herrington said the Texas officials had waged a years­site -some 16,000 farm acres long battle to win the giant in Ellis County 35 miles atom-smasher and the jobs south of Dallas -was and scientific prestige that "superior" to the others for will accrue to the project's building the collider, a 53­home state. mile underground tunnel ca­
''The Texas decision has a pable of whipping proton strong smell of White House beams into each other with politics," said Sen. Donald 20 times the force of the Riegle, D-Mich. "We and the world's most powerful exist­other five finalist states got ing particle accelerator. a raw deaL" "The Texas proposal 
Illinois officials also were clearly received the highest angered, with House overall technical evaluation Minority Leader Robert ratings of any proposal and Michel calling on the presi­
See sse, page 7

dent to review Herrington's 

Friday, November 11, 1988
The Observer

page 2 
I.N BRIEF 
Vice President-elect Dan Quayle was described as "an insult to the American voters and to the rest of the world," by Swedish Consul Arne Thoren in New York. Thoren ~as sine~ ~een reprimanded, and has apologized, a Foreign M1mstry spokesman said Thurs. The conservative daily Svenska Dagbladet, in an editorial, also voiced reservations about the Indiana senator. "With regard to the qualifications of Vice President-elect Dan Quayle, let us wish George Bush good health during the next four years." The paper, however, welcomed Bush's elec~ion, calli_ng him "a competent politician" although lackmg President Reagan's charisma and ideological thrust. -Associated Press 
Football legend George Gipp will be immortalized in film again, but not with Notre Dame's blessing, because the university has a ''built-in bias'' against another football movie about the school, a Notre Dame official said. "Golden Glory" will follow the life of Gipp, the Notre Dame halfback considered the best ·player ever coached by Knute Rockne from 1918 to 1920. The filmmakers won't be allowed access to Notre Dame's archives, said Richard Conklin, associate vice president for university relations. ''The university gets an average of at least one script or treatment a year of a proposed major TV film, or film on the university," Conklin said. For us to cooperate in these endeavors would be to undermine the message that we want to keep football and academics in perspective." 
-Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
ND Encounter 4th Day will gather to pray for NDE £7 Today at 4:30 at the Log Chapel. Prayer will end by 5:00. Interested persons will have dinner together at South Dining Hall afterward. -The Observer French Club is going to see the Gauguin exhibit in Chicago, Nov. 20. To sign up call Mike McCormick X3372. -The Observer ND Encounter 4th Day Mini-Retreat: Past NDE participants are invited to a mini-retreat on Sun., Nov. 13 from 12-3:30 p.m. in Siegfried Chapel. Topic: Prayer. -The Observer The South Carolina Club will meet on Sun., Nov. 13 at 2 p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune. -The Observer A Pax Christi Retreat will be held Sun. from 3-8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Jim Forest communi­cations secretary of the International Fellowship of Recon­ciliation in Holland, will present the theme of the retreat as: "Passover to Peacemaking--Making Friends of Enemies." Registrations are still being accepted. -The Observer · Engin~ering London Program applications are now available from Dr. E. Jerger in 377 Fitzpatrick or Dr. J. Lucey in 371 Fitzpatrick. Applications must be returned by Nov. 30th. Open to all Engineering majors. -The Ob­server· Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Cam~us announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer  
We want to know! Ifyou see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-530J anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor .................... Alison Cocks Etc. Editor..... ........ John Blon Jasi Design Assistants........... Shannon Poley Etc. Designer....................... Tim Irvine ........................................Janice O'Leary Typists............................... Val Poletto Typesetters ...... ............. Molly Schwartz .............................................. Sue Barton ........................................... Paul Jackson ND Day Editor ................ Betsy Mennen News Editor .................. Matt Gallagher SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demet Copy Editor .................. Christine Walsh Photographer ......................... Jim Brake Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey lrish Extra Editor .... .......... Pete GegenViewpoint Copy Editor.·. .. Patrick Zande 'Re Otnrtr (USPS S99 2....000) is published MondAy throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. 'Be Qlllerer is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dune and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S1j per semester) by writina 'ne Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Demc:, Indiana 46SS6. . 'Re Ot:urw is 1 member of 'Re Allodalell ~­All reproduction riahts arc reserved.  

INSIDE COLUMN 


'South Bend/Mishawaka, Alive with pride!' 
South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride. 
Whenever you hear South Bend and Mis­hawaka's mottO'Song "Alive with Pride" on the radio, it is often accompanied by the laughter and cynical questions of students and other non­Benders. 
"Proud of what?" people frequently ask. 
Well, I live in South Bend and let me tell you I'm very proud of this fine city on St. Joseph's River. Most cities in the U.S. pale in comparison to South Bend. 
South Bend, for instance, has a fish ladder right in the center of downtown by the East Race. For those of you who don't know, a fish ladder is a series of man-made "water steps" made to help fish, salmon in particular, up stream to spawn. 
What a concept. In a few years the Mighty St. Joe will be chock full o' salmon swimming around waiting to be caught for dinner. It is only a matter of time until I can eat fresh sal­mon from one of the most contaminated rivers in the country. 
Chicago has a river that flows the wrong way, but it doesn't have a fish ladder. New York doesn't have a fish ladder, but then again they don't have fish. Only South Bend, "the river city," a city on the cutting edge, has a fish ladder. I'm so proud. 
South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride 
I'm also very proud of the only city in the 
U.S. that.has roads that are one and a half lanes wide. I don't know who was responsible for that engineering masterpiece, but I'd like to thank him Cor her). Once again the .Bend is on the cutting edge of road design. 
The challenge of these roads is guaranteed to keep even the best driver busy. You are con­stantly trying to decide if there is enough room to pa~s or if you should stay right where you are. There is never a dull moment. But then again, have you ever heard of a dull moment in South Bend? 
South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride 
South Bend has often been called ''the city 
that time forgot." Time didn't really forget 
South Bend, so much as South Bend forgot time. 
South Bend is one of the few cities in the country 
that chooses not to change time. The Bend is 
always on eastern standard time Cor S.B.F.U.T. 
as I like to refer to it). 

I'm damn proud of living in a city that chooses to rebel against the system. Why should we follow the East or the rest of the Midwest? This way we can be on. Chicago time half the year and New York time the other half. We're sort of an ambassador between the two time zones. 
DON'T READ THIS AD! Unless you want to have. a GREAT TIME 
TONIGHT with 
·THE GROOVE 
at Theodore's 


A campus dance band that will blow your mind I 
beginning at 9:00pm 
Also on Saturday Come da_nce to your favorite songs played by campus D.J.s 
10-2 

Don't forget to check out Ted's ~ideaway! 
Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor 
South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride 
Perhapsthe one aspect of South Bend I'm the most proud of is the weather. The rest of the country has such predictable weather, but in South Bend you never know what to expect. 
South Bend can go from 60 degrees and sunny, to 30 and snowy, back up to 45 and rainy, in just 48 hours. Think of all the different fashions you can wear in just two days. If you lived in Seattle you know it will always be rainy, if you live in Phoenix you know it will be sunny, but if you live in South Bend it could be anything. 
South Bend has a lot to boast about, and this resident is quite proud of living here. As a mat­ter of fact I get all choked up everytime I hear that famous song... 
Look and you can see the spirit growing strong! It's a simple thing called pride, and we've had it all along! 
You can feel the spirit you can see the pride! We've got that special magic deep down inside! 
South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride! South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride! 
South Bend/Mishawaka it's a feeling you can't 
hide! 

who really knows what tomorrow might bring! 
we're goiRg were growing we're doing the right 
thing! 

South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride! 
South Bend/Mishawaka alive with pride! 

Friday, November 11, 1988 The Observer page 3 

Mission Sunday raises $15,500 for Bangladesh 

also accepted the check as a ·in education," said Olivette. In representative of the Apost-Bangladesh missionaries work olate Abroad Office at St. in Holy Cross College, Notre The Observer 1 Mike Moran Mary's. Dame College, St. Joseph's"Our money comes at astra-technical school, or one of four 
Flood of generosity 
tegic time because although high schools, said Ferguson. Sister Olivette, Father James Ferguson, Priscilla Wong and daughter the event has passed and the Olivette· also spoke of the Serre Oyu, Father Leveille, Kim Hamlin, and Mrke Knapp (left to right) !nitial help is over-our job Holy Cross's work with women. display $15,500 check for the missions in Bangladesh. (See story at Is to sustain," said Leveille. "The standard of living
right). The response was so great for women has raised tremen­t*************************************; because the money is certain dously." Olivette left in 1941 for 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporter 
Father Andre Leveille, direc­tor of Campus Ministry, pre­sented a check yesterday in the amount of $15,500 to aid the mission of the Holy Cross brot­hers and sisters in Bangladesh. 
The sum was a result of the Mission Sunday collection in 
Sacred  Heart  and  various  
residence  hall  mass  collec­ 
tions, said Leveille.  

The money will help feed the flood victims in rice kitchens as well as purchase supplies for more permanent housing, said Father James Ferguson, who accepted the check on behalf of the Holy Cross Mission Center at Notre Dame. Sister Olivette 
:• Tom K··ng :• The
WASHINGTON--u.s.. • • Air Force has been flying a »-• "Stealth" radar-evading jet : .,.._._.....,.J'ti.•.••._._.JV'_..-.._••.:,. fighter for seven years, and
* • now has about 50 of the planes : •· Love, : at an isolated base in Nevada, »-• the Pentagon acknowledged »-.. • Thursday. . : Hogan and Stritch • Partially lifting a veil of »-: secrecy that has enveloped the 
*************************************~ plane from its birth, the Pent-

AVAilABU AT: 

MIAMI St. COMICS 1513 Miami Street South Bend, IN. 46613 (219) 288-5051 HOURS 10 -6 Mon -Sat 
cause the missionaries are trusted graduates said Leveille. 
During the first week of Sept. of this year, two-thirds of Bangladesh was under water due to a disastrous flood that destroyed 95 percent of their rice crop and killed 2,000 people. 
The Holy Cross brothers and sisters have been in Bangladesh for 135 years, said Ferguson. Leveille said that the majority of missionaries are graduates of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. "Their work is an extension of what we try to teach here at Notre Dame," said Leveille. 
"I think that the greatest things that the missions do are photo display in the Hesburgh
i Happy iAoid~ecuF~e;~; a;·~k~m~~~dgrarye; I£veme. i 21st :
i. Birthday i=~~~!ence a2!dArr~o!c~e~.!!ah Th!!~~~g!t~·~ om-
photograph of the unusual 
aircraft but declined to discuss its capabilities. The limited dis­closures were made now be­cause the Air Force needs to start flying the craft in daylight, a spokesman said. 
The Pentagon said the plane had been declared operational and ready for wartime mis­sions in October 1983, but that 
it first flew in June 1981. 




GEORGETOWN LAW CENTER 
Will Be Meeting With Students on 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1:30 and 2:15 
Sign up in the Career Placement Office 
four years in Japanese occu­pied Manila instead. She did, 
however  make  a  trip  to  
Bangladesh later.  
Campus  Ministry  made  a  

pledge to raise funds for Bangladesh flood victims on campus and to heighten aware­ness of students about the dis­aster as well. "The goal was to get students directly involved in raising funds,'' said Leveille. 
In an effort to make the Uni­versity respond to a great need, Campus Ministry sent letters to rectors, assistant rectors, and liturgical· coordinators of each residence hall asking for their help in raising funds. "I think that two-thirds of the halls responded," said Leveille. Leveille also said that 
Alumni Hall has weekly mass collections for the "rice" kitchens of Bangladesh, often raising $150 a week. 
Campus Ministry informed students of the missions by an Observer article written by Fa­ther Richard Warner, Obser­
ver advertisements, and a 
cially known as the F-117A," said Dan Howard, the Pent­agon's chief spokesman. 
"It has been operational since October 1983 and is as­signed to the 4450th Tactical Group at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev. The aircraft is based at the Tonopah Test Range Air­field in Nevada." 
The photograph released by the Pentagon depicts a rela­
tively small, sWept-wing plane · with a flat underbelly. It some­what resembles a sting ray-­black or dark blue with no ex­
terior markings. 
The cockpit is located far for­ward in a nose that comes to a sharp point, with what appears to be gun barrels or air-speed probes sticking out. 
The plane features a "V" tail atop a fuselage that ends in a rectangle, apparently com­pletely encompassing the two engines that power the plane. The air intakes for the engines appear to be fitted tightly into the sides of the fuselage, just below the cockpit. 
The swept-back wings would suggest the plane is capable of flying at supersonic speeds, but the Air Force declined to dis­cuss the matter. Military sources have said the plane is designed for sneak ground at­tacks and not air-to-air dog­fighting. 
The Air Force has ordered 59 of the planes and 52 of them have been delivered, Howard said. Three of the planes have 
crashed and  two  pilots have  
been  killed,  the  Air  Force  
added.  

To protect its secrecy, the plane has been flown only at night. But the Air Force needs to start flying the plane during daylight if it is to integrate the squadron's war plans with other units, Howard said. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


r---~--------~~-----------~----­

Picture this 

President and Mrs. Reagan stand with President­Mrs. Quayle upon their arrival at the White House elect and Mrs. Bush and Vice President-elect and Wednesday. 

Tanker breaks in two in North Atlantic; at least 27 feared dead 
Associated Press 
LONDON-Two burned, empty lifeboats were found Thursday on an oily patch of the north Atlantic, but there were no signs of the 27 crew­men from a tanker that broke in two in stormy seas and burst into flames, searchers said. 
A canadian military plane flew over the wreckage of the Odyssey and found its bow "barely afloat," said Paul Kendrick of the Canadian Search and Rescue Coordina­tion Center in Halifax, Nova Scotia. 
The stern section of the 65,746-ton tanker sank after the vessel cracked in half. Oil spilled into the ocean and caught fire, coating the surface with flames that burned hours later. 

Kendrick said none of the Greek and Honduran crewmen were seen on the bow or in the two badly burned lifeboats floatingin the area. He said the tanker was also believed to carry two life rafts. 
"If we can't find them, there's not much hope," Kendrick said. Photographs taken of the scene will be analyzed to see if there are any signs of the crewmen, he said. 
The Odyssey, a Liberian­registered vessel, sent out a distress signal at 3:22 a.m. about 1,000 miles east of New­foundland, saying it needed im­mediate assistance, coast guard officials said. 
The Soviet weather Passat was the first vessel to reach the Odyssey. It was 26 miles away when the distress signal was sent out and rushed to help, but flaming oil kept the Passat from getting closer than a mile to the stricken vessel, said British and Canadian coast guard officials. 
Friday, November 11 , 1988 




Bush transition team moves in 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-·· President Reagan took the first steps Thursday toward an amiable transition of power to President-elect George Bush, leaving instructions for Cabinet officers and other po­litical appointees to turn in their resignations by Inaugura­tion Day, Jan. 20. . 
The new president and the old met with White House chief of staff Kenneth Duberstein and later attended a Cabinet meeting as Bush began the work of assembling his admin­istration. 
The president-elect also met with Craig Fuller and Bob Teeter, leaders of his transition office, before flying off to a long weekend of fishing in Florida~ 
Vice President-elect Dan Quayle also met with Bush's transition team. 
The transition office offi­cially opens for business on Monday, but the telltale signs already were in place in a rented suite of offices a few blocks from the White House. Security guards erected metal detectors and a desk was set up at the entrance where a volunteer collected resumes from job-seekers. 
The vice president made his first Cabinet appointment on Wednesday, naming campaign chairman James Baker III sec­retary of state. He has told reporters he wants to name the balance of his Cabinet sooner rather than later, but has set no timetable. 
Reagan and Bush were ap­
plauded as they walked to­
gether into a Cabinet meeting. 
Fitzwater quoted Reagan as 
saying, "We don't even argue 
over which side of the table to 
sit on." 

But for all the friendliness, 
White House spokesman Mar­
lin Fitzwater said Reagan 
reminded his men, "We are 
still in charge until Jan. 20 and 
are still responsible for making 
decisions of the government." 
Duberstein told the Cabinet and heads of independent agencies to be prepared to sub­mit their resignations. 
Bush on Wednesday promised a "brand new team" when he takes office. But Trea­sury Secretary Nicholas Brady, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh and Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos all have been mentioned as possi­ble holdover appointments. 
One man viewed as likely to receive a major post in the new administration, outgoing Gov. John Sununu of New Hampshire, set his goals high. He told reporters in New Hampshire that he would turn down offers to be secretary of education or energy, but White House chief of staff "isn't on my 'no list."' Sununu, who campaigned energetically for Bush and was instrumental in his critical victory in the New Hampshire primary last February, said he hadn't been offered any post. 
The rumor mill was working at full speed on Day Two after the election. 


KNUfE ROCKNE  
School Address  Pbmanent Address  
101 Sorin Hall  113 N. St Perers St.  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  Chicago, IL 60015  

(219) 283-GOND 
OB,JECI'JVF..: 
EDUCATION: 
EXPERIENCE: 
HONORS AND AWARDS: 
· ACI1VITIES: 
INI'ERESTS: 
FAVORITE NO TRIVIA QUESTION: 
(312) 287-5502 

To obtain a coaching position at the C.tholic university in hopes of continuing the tradition of football excellence and winning about six national championships in thirreen years of coaching. 
University ofNotre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana Graduated Magna Cum Laude, May 1913 Grade Point Average 3.62/4.00 Financed one-hundred percent of education. 
University ofNotre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana FaR 1914-1917 
Assistant Coach 
• 
Awarded assistant coaching position by Head Coach jess Harper, following a spectacular college career. 

• 
Regarded the handling of personnel as the most important job in coaching, and gained the reputation of a strict disciplinarian. 


Chemistry Department. Notre Dame, Indiana ]une 1914-present 
Research AsststanJ 
• 
Served as chemistry research aid to Professor Julius A. Nieuland 

• 
Helped with the invention of synthetic rubber. 


Maintenance Department, Notre Dame, Indiana Sept. 1910-~ 1913 
janitor 
• 
Cleaned and maintained all of the various athletic facilities. 

• 
Prevented overflowing toilets from flooding Washington Hall. 


Chicago Post Office, Chicago, Illinois Aug. 19()6. Aug. 1910 
Mail Dispatcher 
• 
Handled mailbags averaging fifty pounds along with other bulk mail. 

• 
Worked the midnight shift for four years, including Sundays. 

• 
Won one for the Gipper 

• 
Named to the All-American Football Team in 1913 

• 
Captain and spiritual leader of the Notre Dame Football Team 

• 
Visionary and chief designer of Notre Dame Stadium 

• 
Author of three successful books 

• 
Founder of a South Bend stock brokerage firm 

• 
Set school record in the indoor pole vault 

• 
Reached the finals of the Notre Dame Marbles Tournament 

• 
Assistant varsity track coach and equipment manager 

• 
Flutist for the Notre Dame Orchestra 

• 
Played a leading role in many student theatrical productions 

• 
Wife, Bonnie Gwendoline Skiles, married July 15th, 1914 

• 
Football, boxing, gardening, and most importantly, winning 


What No~ Dame great was the receiver halfof the "Baby Bombers"? 

ADWORKS 
THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 
, 

RESUME 

SERVICE 
The harrowing job search requires you to reach deep and to sell yourself. Your resume is the first contact your prospec­tive employer has with you, and consequently generates that crucial first impression. Take advantage of the knowl­edge and expertise of our typesetters. Just as in any formal document, there are customs and conventions to observe. We know them all, let us· put them to worl< for you. The resume should be an ulti­mate expression of you and we feel our priceless service can_ give your employer the most complete you. 
~----------------------~~-----------------------------------------------------------------------.-~---~ 
Friday, November 11, 1988 The Observer pageS 

Mitchell dead 
Former Attorney General and Watergate conspirator, John Mitchell, died of a heart attack at age 75, Wednesday evening in Washington. 
Talk with graduate students from all departments including Law & MBA 
WHEN: Tues, Nov. 15 TIME: 7:00-9:00pm WHERE: Theodore's 
Refreshments will be served. 


~e~ 
ND Communication and Theatre Film Series at the Snite For complete listings call the Film Hotline 239-7361 
1------.a"l -=:------t 
Au REVOIR LES ENFANTS 
((i(ll \lmH. 011111111 Nl At tiM IIV U>UIS M,\JJJ; 


TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:30 

Off-campus students and police form Crime Watch 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
The first organized Crime Watch meeting between off­campus students and the South Bend police was held Thursday night. 
South Bend Police Sgt. Doug Way along with Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson spoke to the group of concerned students. 
The meeting, organized by students Kevin Camblin and Craig Simon, was a result of heightened concern among off campus students about recent break-ins and personal assults. 
"Notre Dame football season is the highlight season for off­campus crime," said Way. To combat the crimes students must band together and look out for each other and their property. 
Several handouts concerning how to be "Streetwise and Safe," and how to describe a suspect or vehicle were avail­able. 'Neighborhood Watch' signs were also passed out, for placement in windows. 
Way emphasized that stu­dents "have responsiblities as well as rights." 
"The large number of un­reported crimes is a growing concern. The police depart­ment allocates man power ac­cording to the number of inci­dents, so we need to encourage people to report incidents as well as any suspicious activ­ity," said Way. 
The point was made that many female students living off campus do not report minor incidents for fear of worrying parents. 
Many safety standards were 

Novak: Left-wing must abandon class politics 
By BRADLEY GALKO Staff Reporter 
The left wing of American politics must stop putting down America and abandon the strategies of class warfare if they are to be successful in their future attempts at the White House, said Michael Novak, a visiting Welch profes­
sor  of  American  studies  at  
Notre  Dame,  in  a  lecture  
Thursday.  

The lecture, presented at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion, was the third in a series sponsored by the department of American studies entitled "Choosing our king." 
''The left has got to stop put­ting down America," the presidential scholar said. "I believe the left doesn't realize," he said, "how many times it defends its sensibilities ...simply by deriding the United States." 
Novak said, "They (Democrats) claim to be populist, but they hold the American people in con­tempt." He cited Democratic claims of the American people falling for President Reagan's "slick talk" and living in "eight years of illusion" as insulting to the American public. 


discussed by Way, such as walking in groups at night, car­rying a minimun anount ·of money and never hesitating to call 911. Way stressed that "deadbolt locks on doors are ideal because their stalling time is approximately four minutes, the average deterrent time for a burgler." 
Also, over breaks students should "call in a homewatch." A homewatch entails having an officer get out of his car to walk around your house about once every eight hours. The stu­dents, along with Way and Johnson, planned to hold an­other such meeting early next semester with hopefully more participation. Many of the stu­dents present felt "bad because there weren't more people here, but this is a start," said Johnson. 
"If I were a left-wing 
politician, I'd praise the Amer­
ican people night and day. . . 
to get them to do more," Novak 
said. 
Class warfare is ineffective 
as. a campaign technique, 
added Novak. ''The whole 
American system is against 
that." Married couples with 
two college degrees and two 
jobs are the major con­
stituency of the top 20 per cent 
economic bracket said Novak. 
By bashing the rich, he said, the Democrats are losing the entire white, middle-class vote. 
"You can't use class warfare as a theme," he also said, ''when most of the Democratic party is rich." Novak said this constitutes "hypocrisy" and "bad faith." 
"The richest are the most Democratic," he said, refer­ring to Jewish Americans, "and many Republicans are poor,'' citing many mid-west Republicans as examples. 
"I think the campaign did show that moral matters cut more deeply in America," he said, "than economic mat­ters." 
liNCOlNWOOD MOTEL 
3300 L.W.W. (US 20) open 24 hours LOW daily, weekly, group & student races available AU modem, clean unita, FREE cable, phone and coff" (219) 234-4063 

Attention Junio.rs Interested In Working On JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND: 
Check committee you wish to work on below and bring this application to Junior class office by Tuesday, November 15, 5:00 pm. (Located on 2nd floor, 
LaFortune.) 
Committees: 
1. 
Presidential Dinner 

2. 
Brunch 

3. 
Communications 

4. 
Welcoming Reception 

5. 
Mass 

6. 
Hall Party Name Address Phone£ 



7. Academic Workshop (Circle One) 
a. 
Engineering 

b. 
Business Administration 

c. 
Arts and Letters 

d. 
Science 


8. Hospitality and Hotels 
Any Questions? Call Karen Croteau X1884 Chris Boron X2905 
r-~-----------------------------------------·--­

page 6 The Observer 
Inflation slows to zero as food prices drop 0.1 percent 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Wholesale price inflation slowed to zero last month as food costs dropped for the first time since February, reflecting an easing of the effects of the summer drought, the government said Thursday. 
Fresh-fruit prices plum­meted 9.2 percent to lead a 0.1 percent decline in food prices on the wholesale level, the Labor Department said. Large drops also occurred in prices for vegetables, pasta, fish, beef, pork and cooking oils. Food prices had been climbing at an annual rate of 8 percent before the reversal. 
While the turnaround indi­cated the initial effects of the driest summer in decades on 


Class 
continued from page 13 
·················································································· 
JUANQUI, JE rAIME AWOURD'HUI PLUS OU'HIER MAIS MOINS QUE DEMAIN. HAPPY AN­NIVERSARY! 
FOREVER YOURS, JENNY 
.................................................................................. 
NEED RIDE TO MIDWAY NOV. 23 WILL PAY $$ SHARON 284-5223 
YO lWINKLE TOES RYAN­
SURE SURE YOUR FINALLY 19. ONLY 2 MORE YEARS TIL YOU CAN GO TO THE BARS. THArS OK WE STILL LOVE YA. WONDER IF ARMANDO DOES? (WHO SAID THAT?) WELL DUDE HERE'S TO AN AWESOME ONE 
LUV-M&H 

j 
.. 
i ' 
j 
f 
food prices are over, analysts said consumers can expect a second round of drought­related increases next spring when shortages of meat and pork appear because of earlier­than-normal slaughters this year. 
Wholesale prices increases for food have totaled 4.5 per­cent over the past 12 months, paralleling the rate of con­sumer price inflation in gen­eral. But including energy and other products, wholesale prices overall are only 2.9 per­cent above a year ago. 
"International competition is still forcing the industrial sec­tor to fight cost increases ever more vigorously,'' said · Cyn­thia Latta, an economist with Data Resources Inc. in Lexi­ngton, Mass. 
''There was a bunch of aber-
YO, TWINKLE TOES RYAN, SURE, SURE. YOU'RE RNAUY 19. ONLY TWO MORE YEARS UNTIL YOU CAN GO TO THE 
BARS. WE STlLL LOVE YOU ANYWAY, THOUGH. WONDER IF ARMANDO WILL (who uld that?). WEU DUDE, HERE'S TO AN AWESOME ONE 
LUV, M & H. 
rations last month that added up to zero, and that certainly is good news," Ms. Latta said. "But I don't think we shoUld stop worrying about inflation." Energy prices rose a slight 
0.3 percent in Oct. as a 4.6 per­cent increase in natural gas prices caused primarily by shortages in the Northeast was offset by a 10.1 percent decline in home heating oil prices and no change in gasoline prices. 
Energy prices are still 5.7 percent below what they were a year ago, and analysts said they expect them to begin fal­ling again by spring. 
Before the seasonal adjust­ments, the Labor Depart­ment's Producer Price Index for all finished goods--includ­ing energy and food--rose 0.6 percent to 109.3. 

AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIETY~ 

Suzanne's Floral 
Long Stem Roses $15/dozen or $1.25 each Walking distance from campus 
Delivery  18061 State Road 23  
and  Near Ironwood  
Wire Setvice  277-2870  

Friday, November 11, 1988 

21ST 

•

BIRTHDAY KERRY 
SULLIVAN! 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, TRACY, JOHN, MIKE 

..~:. • 



Friday, November 11, 1988 The Observer page 7 


Former athletes speak on drugs and alcohol in sports 
Work before the J.Ob 
The Observer I Jim Brake 

Kitty Arnold gives students pointers on resume writing in the Effective Resumes Workshop, held in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune, Thursday. 
tion and with minimal impact 
two days after Bush, an on the environment. adopted Texan, was elected president.
"I have to tell you there are no politics in this," Herrington Questions remain whether told a news conference atten-money ever will be ap­
~ 
~ HAPPY 81 RTHDAY 
"""" 
~ 
~ tO HAPPY JACK 
~ 
iC ~ LOVE MOM & DAD 
~ 

i(¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥•ie cooks, busers, kitchen help. 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
JOINT DEGREE OPTIONS AND CROSS-REGISTRATION OPPORTUNITIES WITH OTHER SCHOOLS 
MEET WITH A KENNEDY SCHOOL REPRESENTATIVE 
DATE:  NOVEMBER 15  
TIME:  4 :00-5:30 GROUP SESSION  
PLACE:  PLEASE CONTACfYOUR CAREER PLACEMENf OFFICE  
FOR THIS INFORMATlON  

All Students, All Majors, All Years Welconu!l 
~ weaknesses," Herrington said. ded by such prominent Texans propriated to build the super ~ Herrington said the Texas as House Speaker Jim Wright collider, an unprecedently 
"""" site would best "permit the and Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, both powerful machine thati( highest level of research pro-Democrats, and Sen. Phil physicists hope will help themi( ductivity and effectiveness" at Gramm, a Republican. explain the very origin of mat­
i( a reasonable cost of construe-The decision was announced ter itself. 
ie ••• • •••••• • •••••••+t Mack 
~ COACH'S 
i( Accepting applications for 
+ Benefits include PAID vacations.
++ 
PART TIME 8-20 hrsAvk. : FULL TIME 40 hrs....Wk. 
+ 2046 South Bend Ave.+ 277-7678 


t.•••••••••••••••••: 

: JEANNE HEFFERNAN IS : FINALLY 18! HAPPY
• 
BI.RTHDAY, BUDDHA!! 
e• . , · LOVE, · •e 
e ........~·~·. THE OCTAPOPULI e 






,••••••••••••••••••••, 

!++ 
+ 
continued from page 1 
reading poetry until the results were known. 
The three major television networks declared MacKay the winner on election night based on exit polls. But Mack moved ahead Wednesday as partial results from 134,000 absentee ballots came in. 
Mack, a former bank presi­dent, and MacKay, a lawyer who's been one of Florida's most-praised politicians for two decades, both were elected to the Congress in 1982. MacK­
ay,  during  12  years  in  the  
Florida  Legislature,  seven  
times  was  honored  as  the  

"most valuable legislator," and he dominated newspaper endorsements this year in his Senate primary and the gen­eral election. 
House 
continued from page 1 
accounted for, said Reinebold. If more Alumni residents move off campus than in the past, Alumni would receive more freshmen. This would help bal­ance out Dillon, which may find 
itself with more  people than  
capacity,  according  to  
Reinebold.  

"By moving our quotas for freshmen, we hope to stabilize each dorm," Reinebold said. 
The letter from Student Residences was discussed at this week's Hall Presidents Council meeting and was re­ported in this Wednesday's Ob­server. Reinebold said she was concerned because ."The dis­cussio~ reported was incor­
rect. The letter does not indi­cate that students will be put in a lottery.'' 
The committee that analyzed this situation and formalized the procedures was comprised of Reinebold; Senior Jeff Breedlove; Senior Ellen Nic­hols; Father Joe Carey, rector of Dillon Hall; Father Gerry Lardner, rector of Grace Hall; Sister Jo Giarrante, rector of Pasquerilla West; and Sister Joseph Riordan, rector of Walsh Hall. 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN News Staff 
Three  former  professional  
football  players,  including  
former  Notre  Dame  All- 

American and Green Bay Packer Mike McCoy, gave a lecture titled, "Stop the Clock on Alcohol, Drugs and Suicide" Thursday night in the Hes-burgh Library auditorium. 
McCoy, former Chicago Bear. Michael Cobb and former Kansas City Chief Paul Bergman related their experi­ences during low points in their lives related to drugs, alcohol 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
~ I ~ 
. ~ ~
21

~ • ~ """" """" 
or suicide. 
The first speaker, Michael 
Cobb, was an All-American 
tight end for Michigan State 
University in 1977, and played 
for the Cincinnati Bengals and 
Chicago Bears. 
It was at MSU, Cobb said, that he was away from his fa­ther's discipline for the first time. "I had earned my schol­. arship and I was kind of making my own way in life . . . 
Nobody was going to tell me 
what to do." 
One of the decisions Cobb 
made while in college was to 
lead a partying lifestyle, in-
eluding the use of drugs and al­
cobol. 
Mike McCoy, spoke of his bout with alcohol while at Notre Dame and then when he was with the Green Bay Packers. 
A child of an alcoholic, McCoy got involved with a!co­hoi as a freshman to become accepted among members of the Notre Dame football team. 
Later, in his first year with the Green Bay Packers, his al­coholic tendency "was starting 
to get a hold of me." He was not feeling satisfied with his life, McCoy said, and a friend referred him to a chapel pro­gram 

SS. C. 
continued from page 1 
exhibited no significant overall 


' ; 'i 
I 
.l 
ALL TIMES: 8 pm & 10:15 pm ADMISSION 52 CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
The Observer Friday, November 11, 1988
page 8 

Hudnut, Goldsmith want Quayle's seat 
----------------------------~------­

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Mayor William Hudnut III and Marion County Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith have indicated their interest in the U.S. Senate seat 

{( 
Dan Quayle will vacate when he becomes vice president, Marion County Republican 

. l 
Chairman John Sweezy said

(I 
Thursday.

'I 
,,

I, Sweezy said Hudnut and Goldsmith, the running mate of unsuccessful GOP guber­natorial candidate John Mutz, expressed their interest while discussing with him Wednes­day the status of the Republi­can Party in Indiana. 
Sweezy said he has not been asked by Gov. Robert Orr to "shake the bushes" to see who 


· may be interested in the va­cancy. 
"I would imagine that anyone interested would go to the governor and present· his case as to why he should be cho­sen," he added. 
Hudnut, who has been quoted as saying that he would wait for whatever happens, took along his longtime political aide Bruce Melchert when he met with Sweezy. 

The mayor would not com­·i ment on the meeting.
i.l David Arland, · Hudnut's \' media aide, said the discussion i' "was about politics. I'm sure it 
(the Senate vacancy) came up : in discussion. He (the mayor) { did not say they talked about 
it, but you and I know he prob­ably did. "It's an item for discussion," Arland said. 
Goldsmith confirmed he dis­cussed the position with Sweezy. 

j' 
"I just expressed my interest 

~ ' 
to my county chairman, which is what I was told is the tradi­tional way to do these things. I'm obviously interested, but I'm really not an active can­didate because you can't cam­paign for it,., Goldsmith said. 

He said he has had calls from some county chairmen throughout the state. The sub­ject was "more about rebuild­ing the Republican Party, but that (the Senate seat) comes up inescapably. I'm not trying to organize anything.'' 
Goldsmith has repeatedly said he would like to serve as mayor, which would be a pos­sibility if Hudnut left office before his term ends. 
"I have no comment on that," Goldsmith said. "I'm just here to watch what hap­pens. The only interest I've ex­pressed right now is the Senate. Obviously, I wouldn't discount the other.'' 
.If Hudnut leaves office before his term expires in three years, a caucus ·of Marion County . Republican precinct committeemen would select his successor, who would serve until the end of the term. 
Orr has said he will wait until Quayle resigns his Senate seat to select a successor who can "furiction effectively.'' 
"It needs to be somebody also, man or woman, who has the capacity to campign statewide twice in the period of three years," he said. "That's an unbelievable undertaking, campaigning, let alone raising the money to be successful.'' 
Quayle won re-election in 

1986 and his successor would 1 I serve until 1990 when a special 1 I election would be held to deter-1 I mine who would complete the I I
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA remaining two years of his I term. 
Any Type Home-made 
AP Photo
A special meeting 

Nobel Peace Prize winners Mother Theresa and Arch-Theresa is in Cape Town to open a new mission in . bishop Tutu meet for the first time at a formal lunch the black township of Khayalitsha . 
given by the mayor of Cape Town, Thursday. Mother 
President of German parliament calls early Hitler years a 'glorious' time 
Associated Press about 50 who marched out of 
the hall during the nationally 
BONN, West Germany--The televised speech to parliament. president of parliament called Jenniger's address the early years of the Hitler era threatened to overshadow West a "glorious" ·time for many Germany's carefully planned Germans, triggering a walkout ceremonies marking the 50th during the government's anniversary of the Kristal­solemn ceremony Thursday, lnacht, the night the Nazis marking the Kristallnacht. began their first organized 
The remarks by Philipp Jen­push against the Jews. ninger led to demands for his Among the guests at the gov­resignation by members of the ernment's ceremony Thursday opposition Greens and Social was West German Jewish Com­Democrats, who were among munity leader Heinz Galinski. 
Social Democrat chairman Hans-Jochen Vogel later wrote to Jenninger, saying the parli­ament president had shown a ''disturbing lack of judgment'' in his speech. Vogel said he and other Social Democrats were filled with "shame and sor­row" over what Jenninger had done. 
The 56-year-old conservative talked at length about the pos­itive feelings of many ordinary Germans early on in the Hitler dictatorship. 
"You've tried the rest, now try the best"
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DR. DAVE!!! 

1 Dollar Off Any Size Pizza With This Coupon* 
Pepsi-$2.50 Pitcher
CLASS OF '64 

Free Delivery Dining Room or carryout 
WE LOVE YOU, 

289-4625 921 N. Eddy, South Bend
\11, TIFF, LEE, AND 
.i 
SARAH

I{
I. 
:I 
*expires Nov. 12th
•l
:r 
~--------------------------------------------­

;j 
FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their future. 
DR. ANTHONY S. SERIANNI 
College of Science 
,, 
' 
" AN APPRAISAL OF SCIENCE AS A PROFESSION" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1988 7:30P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A Reception will follow the lecture. 





Viewpoint
Friday, November 11, 19.88 page 9 
P.O. Box Q 
Shelter needs help over Thanksgiving 
Dear Editor: 
Some students may have time at 
Thanksgiving to bring some happiness 
and hope into the lives of some Chicago 
residents. St. Martin de Porres House 
of Hope in Chicago is a non-profit Chr­
istian shelter for homeless women and 
children and pregnant teens. It is lo­
cated in one of the poorest neighbor­
hoods in Chicago, at 1148 East 65th 
Street. 
The security personnel takes Thanks­
giving time for vacation. Five Notre 
Dame students are needed to arrive 
abcut 3 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 23 to 
help with security, to assist in prepar­
ing and serving the dinner on Thanks­
giving and to assist the mothers and 
children in a variety of ways until Sun­
day morning. 
I know personally the need for help 
at the House of Hope. Several of us did 
an Urban Plunge there in January, arid 
I can attest to the fine work being done 
there, and how much one can gain per­
sonally by this experience. Students in­
terested in the Thanksgiving Service 
Project will meet next Wednesday, 
Nov. 16, at 7 p.m. at the Center for So­
cial. Concerns. 
Dee Dee Wrobleski Pasquerilla West Nov. 10, 1988 
Picture connotes racial prejudice 
Dear Editor: 
It's the Year of Cultural Diversity, and the University is making a com­mendable effort to increase student sensitivity to minority issues and con­cerns. In light of the picture on the front page of the Nov. 7 Observer, however, one has to wonder if the University is having any success in its efforts. 
For those who didn't notice, the stu­dents pictured were wearing black face paint while imitating the black singing group The Fat Boys. They were either ignorant of, or insensitive to, the fact that blackface is symbolic of the ex­ploitation blacks have experienced in this country. It is a reminder of the humiliation blacks experienced when white artists such as AI Jolson wore blackface in minstrel shows, depicting blacks as lazy, shiftless, and promis-
Doonesbury 

cuous, ana proc1a1mmg tnerr very 
blackness to be a badge of inferiority. 
The stereotypes promulgated by these 
shows are in part responsible for racial 
discrimination, since those who ac­
cepted the stereotypes treated blacks 
as second-class citizens. Both the 
stereotypes and the discrimination per­
sist to this day. · 
We hear a lot about how Notre Dame 
is different from other schools, and how 
people here care about others. Yet it is 
sad to see our campus caught up in the 
nationwide trend of incidents of racial 
insensitivity at colleges. 
Since The Observer has printed arti­
cles about the increase of racially in-· sensitive incidents on college cam­puses, the students inv9lved should . have realized that the act was offen­sive. Th~ only place for such a photo­graph in a reputable college newspaper would be the editorial page, and then only accompanied by an editorial ex­
plaining what is wrong with it. 
Bruce Hicks 

Brian Rosmaita 
Off-campus 
Nov. 8, 1988 

Housing policy draws outrage 
Dear Editor: 

"There can be no guarantee of being 
assigned to the same hall or even that 
on-campus housing will be available." 
This impersonal statement reached 
many students last week and left in its 
wake a sense of outrage and helpless­
ness. As for me, I could not help but 
recall a similarly impersonal memo 
sent to bewildered Howard residents 
not so long ago. 

For them, as for all of us, one's po­
sition in the Notre Dame ''family'' be­
comes a "here today, gone tomorrow" 
role. I am outraged that a university 
which stresses a sense of community 
and concern for others could come up 
with such an incredibly callous and 
hypocritical solution to the fresrp.an 
housing problem. 

Separating upperclassmen from their friends, roomates, and a dorm they have ties to for the sa~e of incom­ing freshmen reminds me of the saying "Robbing Peter to pay Paul." Althougb the security of freshmen housing is a worthy goal, it is not justifiable to dis­rupt and alter the lives of those in three other grades just for its enactment. 
1 aon't nave any perfect answers to 

the housing problem ,and it is acknowl­
edged that freshmen must have a stable 
environment in their transitory period. 
However, I don't see the point in trans­
ferring an upperclassman to a dorm 
with more space over assigning an in­
coming freshman there instead. 
The reply of the Student Housing De·· 

partment is that an equal number of 
freshmen is desired for each dorm. I 
feel, however, that the lives of the up­
perclassmen should take precendence 
over an "even number." Besides, the 
important thing is that they have 
housing, not that there are 50 in one 
dorm, 45 in another. Surely we could 
keep the "even number" as an ideal 
but make exceptions where needed. 
We deserve more than .a neatly typed 

eviction notice. The time to voice your 
opinion is now. 
Beth Apone Farley Hall Nov. 9, 1988 

Women's interhall deserves coverage 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing as representatives of women's interhall flag football to com­plain about the embarassing absence of game coverage in The Observer. With the exception of the sports brief of Nov. 7, the last article about any wo­men's game appeared before fall . break. The second half of the season and its tight playoff race on the road 
to. the finals have been ignored. 
Win or lose, we would appreciate the opportunity to be listed in the newspa­per. In years past, there has been a sports representative at most of the season games. This year, however, much of the reporting was done by tele­phone. A writer would call the team after the game, ask for the score, and then write up a few lines. This was at least better than nothing, which is what we've had since mid-October. 
Interhall athletics encompasses both men and women's dorms. In the future we hope that we will receive equal recognition as contributing factors to Notre Dame interhall and non-varsity athletics. 
Garry Trudeau 

Karen M. Marsh Breen-Phillips Captain Nov. 8, 1988 

NAI<E[)AM8/TIC  'S RAR.i3t,Y  H8/?e tt!AS A MAN lA/HOM &:V&N  UJit.t, TH&R/3 8G 50/rl/3 T/3R.­ 
A PR&TTY 516HT. oUTIN 7H/5  H/5 EN&Mie5 A6RffE.Of.UA50ta  1<113/..8 Pf.?JCE TO PAY FOR  HOW'[) 
&L.I3CTION'S VIC!lJR., IT 8ECAM& 1 A GROT/3QU&  TH& M()[)£:L, OF OECaJC,~ !?NGAG­lNG IN SY5TC/11ATIC. 9/.ANCJ&R  H/5 TRAN5FORMPT/al? AS Gf:OR6E H&f!.BEI<T IAJ41)(£,R,  YOU (jr;:TIN  
;  SPUTAa&.  IN PI.FSUITOF 7Hb PR&SIO£NCY.  UN-f)U!<AKJS RE:TURNS TO  H&l<&~  
t)  /  HI~ VIC& PRE5![)£3NT/4 OU­ ~  
f.  TI&S 1Dl?A~ ONt.Y HE !<NO~ FORSUR£! I  
..~11-11  

Policy undermines dorm friendships 
Dear Editor: . 
Tradition. That's the word that im­mediately comes to· mind when I think of Notre Dame. Then there's that fa­mous "Notre Dame Family" phraseol­ogy used by administration and stu­dents alike to denote their University as being much more of a community than a mere institution. It is this unique and legendary emphasis on community which has always made Notre Dame so special to so many. . 
Yet, just the other day I was informed of a new housing policy which promises to force many Notre Dame students off­campus, regardless of their say in the matter. In the face of a policy such as this one, the priority of tradition and the "Notre Dame Family" are replaced by the systematic indifference of lot­tery numbers. No longer _does the renowned Notre Dame idealism hold any importance in this policy. Per­sonally, I think this housing policy is a 
complete disgrace  to  the  University  
I've always esteemed  so  highly and  
loved so much.  

Also, I can't help but think that we, the students of Notre Dame, are deserv­ing of much better treatment. An ad­ministrative move which denies us all choice in a matter as important as where we live tells us just how much our beloved Notre Dame cares for us. All in all, it's a very sad commentary on what has become of the "legendary" Notre Dame tradition. I fail to see how a housing policy completely undermin­ing the importance of dorm friendships can enhance school unity or identity. 
I fear, however, that all Notre Dame students will be wasting their breath in protesting this new policy with refer­ences to values such as tradition and a strong community--clearly we are dealing with an administration that simply does not care. So I would sug­gest that we remind the administration of the "less than desirable" living con­ditions offered by a crime-ridden South Bend. I would also suggest that we remind them just how angry Mom and Dad might get if something ever hap­pened to their precious, little darling off-campus--especially when he or she didn't want to live there to begin with. 
Mary Claire Malloy Lewis Hall Nov. 10, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"We seek ·that peace freedom." 
peace, knowing is the climate of 
Dwight D. Eisenhower. 

=Ihe=Obset:Ver~= Editorial Board Operations Board P.O. F l( Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 (219)239-5303 EdltOr·tn-Chtef . Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John Oxnder 
Managmg Ed1tor . Chns Donnelly Advertlsmg Des1gn Manager . Molly K1llen News Ed1tor Reg1s Cocc1a Adverflsmg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of News Ed1tor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Sh1lts Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of V1ewpomt Ed1tor Man Slaugl'lter Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther ms!ltut1on The news 1s reported as accurately and ·Ob)ect1vel~ as Sports Ed1tor Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hard•man poss1ble Uns1gned e<htonals represent the op1n1on of the ma,onty cf the Ed1tor1al Board Accent Ed1tor Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns Commentanes. leners and the 1ns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column Samr Mary·s Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele space 1s ava1lable to all members of the commuOily and the free e~press1on of vary1ng Photo Ed1tor M1chae1 Moran op1n1ons on campus through letters. 1s encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 

~--,,--­



JOHN DICE accent writer 

im the lights, sit back and relax . 
......... ,.,.,..,, ... a 
yourself for a sensuous roller coaster ride through the emotions of love and romance. From ecstasy to heartbreak, from a dream come true to a lover scorned, Luther Vandross' latest al­bum, Any Love, reac~es into your heart and gently evokes the romantic memories of your past. Similar to his last album, Give Me The Reason, in its style and yet infinitely super­ior in avoiding the same old pop formula, Any Love is a collection of soulfully smooth · songs. They are worked to perfection by the magical voice that has made Luther Vandross the standard by which all other balladeers are measured. His intimate and personal style which makes him so wonderful in concert comes off only slightly less effective here oii record. You still get the feeling that he is sharing his heart with you alone and that, whatever your romantic status, he knows ex­actly how you feel. Luther Vandross has built his reputation on his ability to create stirring love songs. When he turns down the music and lets his unparal­leled vocal talents carry the entire melody' he can raise a 
love song to heart-wrenching heights that other balladeers only dream of. 
Unfortunately, this only oc­curs once on this album in the totally smooth "Love Won't Let Me Wait." With only a light string and piano accompaniment, Luther builds you up with emotional crescendos only to cut sud­denly and leave you hanging in wonder until he glides back in with a satiny soft line timed to perfection. 
On the other hand, those of us who have followed Luther 
· since his days of singing with the group Change know that when the music gets going, he can jam with the best of them. Although he never quite reaches the level of such classics as "Sugar and Spice" or "I'll Let You Slide,'' he definitely does not disappoint. "I Wonder" and "Come Back" are both excel­lent up-tempo efforts, but the real treat is "She Won't Talk To Me,'' an energetic dance track with an infectious syn­thesizer line that is guaranteed to have you moving. The real classic of this al­

bum, though, is the title track which is currently perched atop Billboard's black chart. It is an appeal by a lonely romantic for the love that has eluded him. The song starts off very mellow and steadily builds in power and emotion until it finally reaches an apex of tremendous hear­tache that will leave anyone who is searching for true love feeling as if his own heart had just been poured out. 
Luther Vandross is a master of the emotions of love. His combination of ex­ceptional vocal abilities and a romantic heart have singled him out as one of music's greatest balladeers. Any Love is a wonderful mixture of slow jams and up-tempo soul that is sure to please the ded­icated fan as well as capture a whole new audience. 

DAVID DESALLE accent writer 
rashing! Driving! 
Throbbing! Fish­
bone's new album 
Truth and Soul 
starts by grabbing a listener and forcing you to dance. 
The old Curtis Mayfield tune "Freddie's Dead" romps and stomps as this six man band has some fun and does a fantastic job. The thick bass and guitar lines are vibrant and catchy. The marriage of heavy metal and soul is to be found here if you can believe that is possible. 
The opening one-two punch is completed with "Ma and Pa'' which sounds like Elvis 'costello at his best. 
Be sure not to make the mistake of just taking these rocking songs at face value. The lyrics discuss some serious issues over the rol­licking beat, staccato horns, and masterful guitar work. "Ma and Pa"is about how badly divorce can divide a family and "Freddie's Dead" is about a drug pusher. 
"Pouring Rain" is a beauti.:. ful, slow ballad but like all the other songs on this album exceptmaybe "Bonin' in the Boneyard" it carries a strong message. It speaks of a prophet whose message is rejected by a world of greed and makes allusions to Mar­tin Luther King. 
. Other songs on this album 
are feisty pieces with a varia­
tion on the heavy meta1tap 
flavor. One notable cut, 
"Subliminal Fascism," 
reminds me of some '80 
Friday, November 11, 1988 



KEVIN WALSH Pleased To Meet Me), Moons accent writer of Jupiter presents a seriously 
sanded-down sound. Gone are he new Scruffy The many of the rough edges and Cat album, Moons of distortions that typified Tiny Jupiter, finds Scruffy Days. The Cat sleeked With the exceptions of the down and cleaned up. surf instrumental "Nova SS 


The change is evident from 1968," "Betty Drops In" Can the minute you open up the ode to an airline stewardess) album. The packaging on the and "Kissing Galaxy," the 

SCRUFFY 
THE CAT 


. vintage California punk. "Slow Bus Movin" (Howard Beach Party) is featured on the soundtrack to the movie ''Tapeheads.'' 
Almost all the songs on this album deal with the very serious social issues, primarily conveying a strong black pride message. The band made it a point to note that many of these songs were recorded on either Mar­tin Luther King's or Abraham Lincoln's birthday. Scenes of urban plight, class disparity, and pain are also described. There is also a theme of hope and religious trust. Like Prince's albums, messages of thanks to God are included in the linernotes. 
Truth and Soul is a heavy album. Some of the songs are solid and interest­ing both musically and lyrically--especially when you listen to the messages they present. 


record includes-a huge sleeve fold-out of a color mural. The mural would best be des­cribed as "What if Tom Cruise, Bozo The Clown and Ronald Reagan all col­laborated on the apocalypse?" ... and who's to say they won't? But that has very little· to do with the music. 
In fact the intricate paint­ing is the opposite of Scruf­fy's style, which is stripped­down, simple and almost in­stantly accessible. Produced by Jim Dickinson (who also produced the Replacements' 
Calvin and Hobbes 
'tlW1 IN -rut: W~l.D t..M 1 

\'ll~ITING IN l\4E PD'JRING 
RAIN tOR 1\-IE SC.~OOL B'JS 10 Thi(£. ME ~E.'tNER£. t IX>~>.f1 EVEN W~NI TO GO 1 
guitars are much more exact, much less blunt, and almost subdued. The drums have been softened a lot, too. The vocals, which are mixed pretty high, have also lost their raw edge. Tiny Days was basically a live album, where Moons of Jupiter is more of a studio effort. 
So, what does all this mean 
. for Scruffy The Cat? Well, the energy loss is definitely a negative development, but, surprisingly, the songs stand up very well on their own. The lyrics show the same degree of humor and intelli­
gence that marked their other 
efforts. There are some 
dubious lyrics, like "Only 
friendly dinosaurs can read 
my books" in "Place~," but, 
overall, the sophistication of 
the lyrics and song structures 
is a benefit. 
The influences of Scruffy 
The Cat are many and they 
tend to wear them on their 
sleeves. From the borrowed 
Everly Brothers title and 
drum signature on "Just Like 
Kathy's Clown" to the Booker 
T. And The MG's organ solo on "Bus Named Desire" to the Beatle-esque hook on "I Do" to the classic Buddy Holly simplicity of "Beg, Bor­row and Steal," Scruffy The Cat knows just what to put where. 
The CD and cassette ver­sion of Moons of Jupiter in­clude three songs not on the album. One of the three songs, "Bucknaked," threat­ens to start a new dance craze: "Take off your shirtlfake off your pants! Take off your socks!And we'll do a little dance-Called The Bucknaked." It winds up after a brief instrumental break during which lead singer Chesterman exclaims, "Say... it's breezy in here! " 
"Keith's Lament" is a slower, country-tinged song which finds the singer sad­dened by the guitar he played when singing songs to his girlfriend. Without these two songs and the laid-back roll of "One Bad Apple," the album could have been accused of too much sameness. 
Moons of Jupiter is evidence of a real growth in Scruffy The eat's musical evolution. Similar to bands like the BoDeans and Marshall Cren­shaw, Scruffy The Cat takes a feel from rock's history and updates it. 
Scruffy The Cat isn't a band for people who like "songs" about death and despair backed up by walls of throbbing sludge and feed­back. They aren't for disco­synth nuts. They aren't for people who like the sound a screwdriver makes on an electric guitar. They are a simple, straight-forward rock and roll outfit. and they deserve your atttention. 
Bill Watterson 


-~---~--­
.-
~---------~~~--­
t 
' 
\ 

etc. 
Friday, November 11, 1988
page 12 


Wounded healers, helping each other 
P 
eople have been telling the guest at a banquet that to keep body and soul to­me? If so, I would be happier sent to bed without any sup­me: "You're losing I'd love to enjoy since there's gether with a bowl of if he didn't feel so close, be­per. weight. What's your secret?" a feast on the table. Yet late­minestrone and a glass of cause he makes me feel I'm doing it the hard way: ly, the only thing I reach for Pepsi. The alternative was guilty when he refuses to en­Are you suffering from I'm not eating much, and is the after-dinner mint. spending ten pounds in an joy lunches. anorexia, bulimia, or any that's not by choice. To tell Sometimes I pray for the expensive restaurant on a In the meantime, the expen­other eating disorder? We the truth, I've lost my appe­blessing of feeling hungry. breast of chicken it would sive Aquascutum jacket I could pray together and look tite. I'm feeling great except What, if anything, ails me? have choked me to swallow. bought on Regent Street is for help at one of those nerve for this indifference to food. Am I getting old? It could be; You can tell lovers, they getting baggier and baggier, clinics they advertise in the Why am I telling you about yet the more weight I lose, say, by their loss of appetite. though I've never worn it. paper. We could, as this, instead of the doctor? the younger I feel. I find Could I be in love? Don't I Soon, the only use I'll have woundbearers, be 
You've probably heard myself window-shopping for a wish it! Shakespeare wrote for my Inverness overcoat companions-at-arms, looking about the man who goes to young man's clothes. Even "The Merry Wives of will be as a tent when I'm for a savior able to save us 
the psychiatrist to complain, when I was young, 
I couldn't Windsor" because Queen camping out. On the other from malnutrition. Elizabeth wanted to see hand, before long I'll be able Falstaff in love. As a fat to wear the three pairs of I am unloading on you also
Father Robert Griffin man, I've always regarded gray pants I bought that week so that you'll know what has myself as a Falstaff free of seven years ago when I only happened if I get in trouble 
Letters to a Lonely God his embarrassing vices; and weighed 210. As a matter of and have a fainting spell. If I'm half in love with the idea fact, I'll be able to wear all you find me unconscious in of being in love, so I can see three pairs together if the the Keenan-Stanford lobby, " thinks he's a wear a young man's clothes, 
how the other half lives. weather turns cold. I thank with Darby O'Gill uncon­chicken." The psychiatrist since I was always heavy. 
However, if I were pining God for the drama in my life, scious beside me, offer both says, "We can cure him of Do you think I'm suffering away now from unrequited which chiefly happens when I of us pizza with anchoviesthat." The man replies, "You from the November affection, I'd be the first to switch from an obese person's from Pizza Hut. Don't call adon't understand. We need doldrums? Is the gloom of notice. "How happy is the wardrobe to togs that are priest; call a Jewish mother
the eggs." late autumn making me feel 
blameless vestal's lot ! The stylishly stout. who makes chicken soup with Why don't I tell the doctor out-of-sorts? The gray skies world forgetting, by the world Why am I burdening you matzoh balls. For heaven's I'm nevet: hungry? I don't and falling leaves are cer­forgot." Nobody loves a fat with this? I want you to see sake, don't let well-meaning want him to stop my brother tainly an appetite depressant; man; but even if they do, that there are many ways of therapists try to force a Man­from laying eggs. Why should however, I've been off my that's not my problem. I being a wounded healer. At hattan down my throat. Man­I mind not eating, if it helps feed since the beginning of haven't become indifferent to meals, do you pile up your hattans used to be like mot­me to lose weight? For once June. 
junk food because I imagine tray with food you'll never her's milk to me; now I gag in my life, I'd enjoy looking Last summer in London, I myself to be a version of eat? Are your friends telling on them as though they were
undernourished. blamed my loss of appetite on 
Falstaff in love. you that your eyes are bigger urine from a camel. That'sWoody Allen tells the story English food. Overcooked than your belly? Are you why I know I need yourof two Jewish ladies at a lamb, always greasy and I'll tell you something inter­chided for not touching fruit, prayers.
Catskills resort. One says, lashed with garlic, was the esting. Lately my cocker meat and vegetables that"Have you noticed how bad last thing I wanted to impose spaniel, Darby O'Gill II, isn't could feed the hungry, dinner­One hand washes another, the food is?" The other on an unwilling stomach. much interested in eating less children in China? they say. Is the grease from replies, ''And have you Trifle, when you're not in the either. He'll sniff through the Huddleburgers causing you · Hey, pal, I know whatnoticed how little they give mood for it, can leave you garbage can, if he gets the terminal acne? I'll wean youyou?" Woody Allen com­more unhappy than a week of chance, but he only breaks you're going through: you're of your addiction to grease, ifments: "Life is like that. It English rain. Why blame the his fast when he has to, as a taking servings of everything you'll help me quit smoking. 
may be lousy, but there's season for my disenchant­way of staying alive. Could in sight, hoping to find some­What a nice world this would never enough of it." ment with mealtime? Darby be imagining himself thing that will tempt you to be if Christians were goodWoody Allen is one kind of It was the same way in July as a dog in love? Is he turn­hunger. When you don't find neighbors, helping robins who a neurotic, and I am another. when I spent the dinner hour ing up his nose at his favorite it, you feel guilty, like a faint get back to_ their nests.
Every day I live, I feel like at 
· a H t in Soho. 
snacks out of s 
m ath for spoiled child deserving to be 
•

Nowwecan 
maors Wl • erreconoffilcs. 
Whatever field of study you're 1~~~~~~iii;~
in, a1V1acintosh® con1puter can II help n1ake the studying easier. And now Apple makes the · payments easier, too, with the Student Loan-to-Own Program. If your parents qualify, you won't have to worry about the econon1ics-you can attend to ·fun things, like term papers and exatns. Stop by and pick up an application today. 
,
.® 

Apple's . Student Loan-to-Own 
Program 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
0 1988 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ot Apple Computer, Inc. 
Friday, November 11, 1988 The Observer page 13 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday tr•rough Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 


Classifieds 
Help! Need ride to PITI or CENTRAL I need penn state tickets. call at 277-JUNIORS VENUS 
Need 6 PENN ST TIXI! John x43646224.
PA. for THANKS BREAK. Will share ex­JUNIORS
NOTICES She sings
penses. Can leave Wednesday. Karen CLASS DINNER AT SENOR KELLY'S
HELP!!! Desparately seeking PSU tkts.­
Both the

x4041 Hello. I need Penn State GAs. Call 3488. THIS FRIDAY 5-8PM S3 ALL YOU CAN
stu. or GA's!! x2607
Goodbye. EAT TACO BAR DIRECTIONS OUT­Sweetly scented airs TYPING AVAILABLE 
And the

SIDE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE-2ndOVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.
287-4082 Penn State GAs needed, # 3348 $$$$$ 
Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All I'M HAVING A BIG SIBS WEEKEND, SO FLOOR LAFORTUN RIDES LEAVE Softly endearing radiance 
Of the

fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-I NEED PENN STATE TIX BILL X4640 MAIN CIRCLE AT 4:45,5:45,8:45 CALL
NEED 3 STUD. TICKETS FOR PENN 
Newly Bom Flower of Spring

IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 THE OFFICE FOR MORE INFO (239­
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING STATE CALL ANNE if 3736
I need 2 USC tickets Please help me out 5117) BE A PART OF THE CLASS OF 272-8827 
if you have any. Call Bob at x3647. 19901 Glistening lightly 
DESPERATE FOR TWO (2) PENN ST 
In the sunlit afternoon 

TIX!I PLEASE CALL DAN!! X3286. 
Amidst the 

I NEED TICKETS!!!!!!! PENN STATE
If you need a ride to Columbus this HEY-IF YOU WERE AT HASBROOK'S
I· FORSALE 
Sweet

GA'S!!!!!I PLEASE!!! CALL THERESA AT 
weekend--call X4205! AND ROONEY'S TOWNHOUSE FOR
I NEED 4 PENNST TIXI X4000 MIKE 
Cool
X4189!$$$$ 

THE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION ON
BBO­Scintillating showers Need two GA's for Penn State Call Rob
ACADEMIOBUSINESS TYPING 1t5 (SATURDAY) AND YOU KNOW
STON.BOSTON"BOSTON"BOSTON Gently sprinkling 
GA'S! GA'SI GA'S! I NEED PENN
237-1949 WHO SWIPED OUR REMOTE CON­
at # 1051 or Brian at 3234
For sale: round trip plane tickets from STATE TIXS! CALL MONICA AT 4189! Upon the
TROL FOR THE T.V., CALL US AT 277·
Chicago to Boston for Thanksgiv­$$$$$$ Loving Earth HELP! I need 2 Penn St. GA's. $$$! Call 
7260 OR WE'U NEVER HAVE THE
in!j.Piease call Beth x3705 TRISH x4003
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL SAME CROWD OVER AGAIN. IF YOU 
YOU WANT TO SELL ME YOUR PENN
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. HAD A LOT OF FUN LIKE WE DID,
1980 Granada air, FM'AM, $1,000 2n-GA'S! CALL HEIDI AT 3860 FOR$$$$$ Basking tranquilly I NEED PENN ST l USC TIX 272-6306 
PLEASE HELP US OUT OR WE'LL
8752, after 5 PM. In the
Ride offered to Ann Arbor this Friday, LOSE THE SHIRTS OFF OF OUR 
I NEED A STUDENT PENN STATE Warmly caressing rays
returning Saturday at 6 p.m. Call 272-$$$ BACKS TRYING TO GET ANOTHER
FOR SALE: A HEWLETT-PACKARD TICKET Please call Babs x2728 Beaming softly 
7690 or 2804. ONE.... CALL US.
I nee0 Penn St. tixl
28S CALCULATOR BRAND NEW! From the Call Duane x1661
GOOD PRICE 283-4364 Great
NPenn State GA's in a BIG WAY!! Call
Typing-Word Processing $$$
Molly X132t. Embracing Orb of the Heavens.
2n-so14 

'85 hobie cat 16 24 hour Student Loung is OPEN!!! Lo­-LAUNCELOT wtrailer,many extras call 1868 cated in the OaK Room South Dining SELLING 2 PENN ST. GA'S-# 2814 
Hall!!! I NEED A RIDE TO NYC AREA go 11· 
for sale: 1 plane tix:SB to Newark 11122-22 ret 11-27 will share exp call Peter MORGAN STANLEY NEEDS TJX TO FREDDY JONES BAND
111.?8-1'11 sell at cost call # 2898 or 288-x2124 PENN STATE; GA'S OR STUD'S. FREDDY JONES BAND
LOST/FOUND 
9402 PLEASE HELf> ME!I! I need 6 PENN 

PLEASE CALL (800) 223-2440 EXT. FREDDY JONES BANDSTATE student tix or GA's Please call 
6971, FOR DAN. JONE
UNITED FLIGHT TICKET THANKSGIV­FREDDY BAND at Bridgets
Teek at 288-9303 anytime.
Lost: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES on the ING Round trip Los Angeles 1(}22-1008 Thutof=ri nile come,DRINK,Iisten, JUST SANKOFA way from Washington to North dining In NEED 2 PENN STATEGA'S. CALL nM COME! SEE FREDDY LIVE! SANKOFA
BEST OFFER: CALL 283-3405 I NEED GOOD PENNST. GA--WILL PAY.

peach case, glasses dark green (almosl AT 412-343-4293. SANKOFA
$$$ MATI 4521

black) Please let me know i found them! Cincinnati anyone? Need ride for break. co":'lng next week...
PENN STATE TICKETS 30 Yard LineCarrie X2724 NEED 4 USC TIX PLEASE CALL 3570 Will pay $$$. Call Jen If 2550
Great for Parents Best Offer Call Steve NEED penn GA x-3100 

·················································· 
291-6380LOST: BLUE BOOKBAG ON MONDAY, For sale: 2 Penn St stud tix. Best offer Texas daughter desperately needs !­SANKOFA
I WILL DO ALMOST ANYTHING FOR USC PACKAGE!!
11-7 AT BOOKSTORE (POSSIBLY by 11-15 leave offer 277-7298 shirts, any sayings. Xmas gifts. Thanks SANKOFA
PSU GA'S ?!! CALL MARY AT 284 4259!! 
TAKEN BY MISTAKE). PLEASE CALL HISTORY OF JAZZ
For sale. Guys only. Call Dan at 271-call 259-1216. 
JIM x3559. 
HISTORY OF JAZZ0758. 

1 PENN STATE ticket for sale call Liz x Need 1 Penn St. ticket. Will trade 1 USC HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY MATI UHODA HISTORY OF JAZZ4957 
ticket. Call Kevin x3797.
LOST or STOLEN: Blue back pack from (ONE DAY EARLY)!!! FINALLY YOU'LL SANFOFA South Dining Hall on Tues. Nov. 8. The BE ABLE TO DRINK LEGALLY--SCARY. SANKOFA 
ANY PENN STATE TICKET NEEDED
name MATI AYERS was clearly on the TICKETS GET READY FOR LOTS OF coming next week... 
for a priest from out of town. Help a priest. 
back pack label. If found, call 3805 with NEED PENN ST. TIX-STUD OR GA SURPRISES! MAGS 3322. · help yourself-GOOD $ ...call JANE X181 0
no questions asked. LOVE YOU-LYNDA FHISTORY OF JAZZ
NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE 

LOST!! LARGE GOLD TONE Need 2 Penn State GA's. Call Shawn 1 PENN STATE STUDENT TICKET FOR HISTORY OF JAZZ.
CALL SHEILA--271-9365 SALE ... BEST OFFER. SHARON 284­

x2380. $$$$$ 5223 
BRACELET AT 818 GRACE ON OCT HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY TO KERRY!!!! HISTORY OF JAZZ. 
28. CALL ERIC AT X3883!!! LOOKS LIKE YOU MADE IT!!!! LOVE, SANKOFA we need PENN TIX!! 2 GA's would be TRACY
Need PSU tix stu or GA Call Chris at SANKOFA 
HELP!! I've lost my glasses and can not really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call 277-7384 SANKOFA see to take notes in class! If you've found walter x2151 or michelle x2844 I need HOCKEY EQUIPMENT' If you SANKOFA
PERSONALS
a pair of pink-tose rimmed glasses in Need 3 PENN ST stud. Scott 1730 have any you want to sell call Jack 3459 brown leatherish case please call x3782-Please give me Penn St. GA'sl ·my G.P.A. depends on you! Thanks. Okay, I'll pay good money for them, but I need 5 PENN ST stud tix call X3884 please sell your penn state ticket: either CONSIDERII\:G GRADUATE SCHOOL? 
N.D. CANDY

I really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at or X3839 stud or Ga call kristie 2558 QUESTIONS CAN BE ANSWERED 
Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White 
AT GRADUATE SCHOOL NITE Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check 
Found: Sprint Fon Card near a phone in 283-4220. 
LaFortune. Please call x3782. $$$$$$$$$$$$$ JEANNE IS 1811 Too late to vote They TUESDAY, NOV. 15. 1988 
lo: MAIN EVENT. L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 GAME. 2 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­
•..........••......••••.........••..•.. I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS IN A IRISH UNCLE FINALLY OUT FOR A couldn't wait But now she's legal, Older THEODORES 7-9 P.M. 
l
LOST: A beige umbrella last Friday in BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF NEED PENN ST. GA'S, men, to date So don't be shy Don't delay 
1338.

LaFortune. If_ you have found it, please THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL DESPERATELVII BIG BUCKS! CALL Call her now And say Happy Birthday! contact Andy at 283-t876. Thanks. BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL MIKE 3531, OR 320 KEENAN. K2484 Are you broke? Sell me your Penn State WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? 
stud tix for forty dollars! JC4495 or 4434 WHAT DO THEY DO?
TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A 

LOST: Ring in Ladies Room of FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DON'T NEED 7 PENN STATE GA'S CALL 284-PENN TIX! i need & will buy! 1297 
COME SEE.. EXPO ROMA'88
4336 TO JEFF AND ALL THE OTHER GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE FREE DRINKS-GRAB OUR COUPONS BLEEDING HEART LIBERALS Reward Reward CLUB 23 Pizza, Sandwiches, Veg IN FRIDAYS PAPER AND GRAB SOME Call N 2614 TOP $ FOR GOOD SO. CAL. SEATS. DESPERATELY SEEKING USC TIX!I Vegetarian. Cloae to campus "DRINKS" FROM UNIV. PIZZA 277-8889 In the spirit of your kind of protests, WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL KATHLEEN have two things to say: 
Lafortune on 1117 DELAY-CALL TODAY !!! 

NEED 2-6. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT AT 284-5039. 1. HA HA HA!!!I 
······················· ....... ········ (605) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. I need a ride to l-OUISVILLE for Thanks­SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS FOUND IN NOH: one ladies watch Con­giving. Leave earty Tuesday, Nov. 22. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBAlL 2. We heard your cries NEEDED-2 STUDENT OR GA'S FOR of lies, lies, lies,
tact Katie at # 4824 NEED PENN ST TIX TERRY 4013 Name terms. Call T.J. at # 3810 ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB PENN STATE. CALL SUE 284-5063. but Duke's demise
MONDAY, NOV 14 GENEROUS REWARD FOR RETURN need at least 2 penn st. ga's chris at UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-8889 FOOD SPECIALS is our long awaited prize. OF TWO SMALL GOLD (SMALL DIA­1352. OPEN 8:30-12:30
HELP! REALLY NEED 3 GAs lo USC! 
Cecilia 4431 Of the next four years BALL GAME OCT. 22, 1988. PLEASE NEED PENN STATE G.A. & STUDENT BEATS THE REST. GIVE OUR DRIVER 
MOND) RINGS LOST AT ND FOOT­THIS WEEK ONLY-UNIV PIZZA DLVY 
we have no fears, No Gimmicks, just Cash I need 1 Penn ALL
CALL COLLECT 219-988-2544. TIX CALL DON # 272-0456 ANY OTHER STORE'S COUPON AND ATTENTION NO MEN INTER­because under George Bush St. Call Drew 1686 WE'LL TAKE $1 OFF YOUR HALF OR ESTED IN_ AN OLDER WOMAN! CALL America will reach new highs. LOST: BLUE PHILOSOPHY OF LAW $$$$$$ FULL SHEETIII OPEN UNTIL 3 AM CAROLYN ·and WISH HER A NOTEBOOK. LOST IN EITHER HAYES. NEED PENN ST. GA'S FR~AT 2n-8889
DESPERATELY NEED 8 PENN STATE HAPPY BIRTHDA VIII CHUBBY 
GA'S CALL TODD AT 1406 OR 1409 3799 NOV. 9. RETURN TO COLM BROWNE $$$$$$ HEY SENIORS ... IN 213 ST.ED' OR CALL 4364. Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell 
HEAL OR N. DINING HALL ON WED. CALL TASHA X4072 
HELP! I need 2 Penn State student tix. Please call Mike at 4075. Thanx Going to an SYR is hell. TK NIIIICE TIE! EVEN THO "YOU ARE THE UlTIMATE ILLUSION Sluart and OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS You and I, we both know that, THE BIGGEST ? IN THE WHOLE Lori NEED PENN STUDENT TIX. WORLD," HOPE HAVE
PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT I 2 ST Tlie Christmas Formal is where ifs at. I STILL YOU x1631 THE BEST B-DAY. DB The MAGIC is the MOMENT Stuart and 
AFTER 5 PM 216-633-10n FRANCIS. Lori 
FOR RENT 

Be sure to sign-up before you leave for NEED 2 OR 3 USC TIX JIM 3371 I WILL DO ANYTHING FOR A SET OF Thanksgiving... I need a ride to U of MICH anytime this BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-HO weekend Pleasecall Stacy 1511 
I I 
4 PENN G.A.'S. MY BROTHER IS Illusion is the ultimate ,eality Sluart and COUNTING ON ME. DONT LET HIM Lori
291-7153. I need Penn St. GA's & student tickets. HO 271-8311 HO
DOWN, CALL TIM 283-1616 **JUNIORs•• 
..................................................,............. **JUNIORS•• HAPPY 21st TO THE LAMB!!! WE LOVE I need 2 Penn St GAs. call 272-4223 JUNIOR CLASS TRIP: YOU ANNIE ... THE 5 'MON.
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'n Breakfast I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S--DAN x4115 Just 20 mlns. from NO. Ideal for all NO Class of '89 ... CHICAGO BLACK HAWKS I Need Two Student and One GA WANT TO SEE THE WORLD? GO ON
activities. Re..-ve now. 616-471-5711. I NEED 1 USC TICKET PLEASE CALL for Chrtstmas Formal 1988 vs. Penn State BILL (1307) THE SEMESTER AROUND THE
BETH x3705 It's our last Noel together. Be there on BUFFALO SABRES WED. NOV.16 WORLD!!! VISIT 15 COUNTRIES IN
Furnished Rooms & 2 Bedroom home Dec. 2 near campus.272-6306 HELP! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S!! CALL Penn St stud tix best offer by 11114 277-$15 ASIA AND EUROPE. STUDY IN INDIA 4860 tom AND GET 16 CREDITS ... FALL OF
277-1513 Can anyone give me a ride to Cincinnati TICKETS ON SALE FRIDAY 1989. GENERAL INFORMATION
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO. for Thanksgiving Break? Please call Jen­1:00 AT CLASS OFRCE ••••PENN STATE STUDENT MEETING .... 7:00 PM WEDNESDAY
AVAiLABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES­PLEASE I NEED 4 TO 6 GAS FOR PENN nifer at x2128 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
TICKEr-•••• •••••••••••• FOR SALE NOVEMBER 16 MEMORIAL LIBRARY
TER. 287-6389 OR 683-8889. $$ NO OBJECT PLEASE CALL DAVE LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE AT X 2275!! CLASS OF 1990 AUDITORIUM.
•••••••••••• INTERESTED? CALL MIKE AT 1228 BE A PART OF IT
MATH TUTOR-234-3878. 
P.S. TO CONNIE:

I NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND I WILL NEED PENN ST. STU. TIX. CALL JULIE YOU
NOT STOP AT ANY COST!!$$ PLEASE
WANTED 

NEED RIDE to North. NEW JERSEY for CAU ANDY AT 1930 OR JULIE AT 
X1271 RIDE NEEDED: TO WASHINGTON D.C
Thanksgiving. Can leave anytime from 
2791. AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK, MIDDLE EASTERN DINNER 
Tues 111.22 on. Call Chris 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 Need 4 Penn St tickets call: 277-0535, CALL CHRISTY AT 284-5148 SHARE MIDDLE EASTERN DINNER 
X 2773

ask for Mike S. $$$! MIDDLE EASTERN DINNER
blocks from campus. Pandora's Books I NEED 3 PENN ST TIX! X4002 CATHY. Tonight at CLUB 23 6 pm MIDDLE EAs­
808 Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Ph# NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's and 1 STUD. PUBLIC APOLOGY to TERN DINNER
233-2342 I NEED PENN STATE TIX STUD OR GA,--3 JIM 1935 DR.F.J.CASTEL~INO You were right--as
CONECT..WESTCHSTR & ROCKLND
CALL TONY AT 1089.

RESORT HOTELS, Crulaellnes, Alr­usual. I'm sorry that I doubted you. Ever­CTS. believing, R.A.P. dear tiff remember, never love a man
nnea, & Amusement Parka, NOW ac­PLEASE! I NEED TWO PENN STATE 
XMAS BUS TRIP $90
MY PARENTS ARE COMING ALL THE with RED SOCKS, but his roommate's
cepting applications for summer Jobs STUD OR GA'S.$$$1 CALL COLLEEN 
WAY FROM SOUTH AMERICA FOR Sign up and deposit Monday & 
Birthday

Internships, and ca.-r positions. For 112862. Thanks! HEY CONNIE BOYDEN: okay. Happy Dude love a 
THE GAME. I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE Tuesday, 14 & 15, 5:3(H;:30 
more Information and an application, Here's the personal you missed: Thanks "kumquat"
Lafortune Lobby near Info. DeskPENN GAME THEY WILL PAY YOUR
write Netlonal Collegiate Recreation for a wonderful season. Let' not let the
HELP! 2 Penn St. GAs are alii need Call TUITION... CALL RAUL OR CHRIST AT TO the 2nd Floor Leman's Ladies
Service, PO Box 8074, Hilton Head, SC rough ending spoil the fun we had.
Tina at x4846 1873 ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
29938. The Coaches Prepare to be swept off your
THE PROOFS FROM THE FORMAL 
feet this weekend! I NEED ONE PENN STATE GA OR STU­I need 4 PENN GA's and 2 USC tixs. HAVE 
Love,

Full Time Nanny 
DENT $$$Call Amy 2691 ARRIVED!! 
2 Young Children To whoever called me around 12:00 The Vennin 
PLEASE CALL SAM AT 239-6696 COME TO THE CLASS OFFICE ON 2ND Wednesday night, I'm sorry I was rude.
Profeaalonal Child Care 
FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE DURING OF­Light House WorkoOrganiDtlonal 
Rednecks need 1 student and 2 GA's for Call me back if you still want to. C 
Penn State game. Call Bosephus at 3157 FICE HOURS TO BUY PICTURES TIL Hey Kroepfl go and celebrate, youSkills 
STILL BADLY IN NEED OF 6 PENN ST or 3155. NOV 11 OH-SWEET MEMORIES! 
awesome bio. stud. More than being sci­Excellent Salary & Benefit Program TIX 4 GA & 2 STUD CALL 1767 ence geek. you're also a super bud. The

Send Resume To: Mllrlkay Cochran FREE BEERI(or Cash$) for 1 PENN
New Jersey devil also needs Penn State time to stress is over, t1me to pa1ty's here.
Design Time 3 PENN ST. STUD TIX 4 SALE GA's. Call Rudolph at 3155 or 3157. FOR SALE: USC TRIP TIXI BEST OF­STATE tik. PLEASE call Brian al111714! 
Beth is 20 so all give a great big ~:

P.O. Box 2027 TOP OFFER BY FRIDAY FER! CAU. MISSY 284-4381 We love you Beth, you are grand you'~e
Ettm.rt, IN 46515 NO OFFER, NO RESPONSEIII NEED PENN ST TIX MARYx37o45 Anne Mathews-Have a great B-day on always there to understand. So put on a 
LEAVE MESSAGE AT X3201 Sun. What Fun! Gues.c; who? 
smile and grab a beer. the lime to

"John Blasi .. a ma• llut." -T.C. 
celebrate for Beth is he~e. lu./8 Iota.

I need Penn State tix more than anyone SANK OFA 
I NEED PENN ST STUDS CALL D.WE 
Kimmie. Kim, Mars. Steph. Keneeev.

here! Rick 4235 SANKOFA
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. CALL 

2258 Cola, Jules, Brig and Bng.
JO 284-4337 ASAP SANK OFA 
o;ouoooooooouoooooooohou..uoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 
Needed 2 Penn State Toc SANKOFA
HELP! I need a stud Pem St. tik. -call 
I need a ride to Cleveland area for NEED 2 GA'S ANO 1 STUD TIX FOR Amy 3789 call 2&4-5545 SANKOFA Thanks. $$$ BARB JC4842 PENN ST. PLEASE CALL MB :!M-5012 see CLASS, page 6 
r-------~------------------------------··---·--~------------------------------------------------------------------~.. 
·~ 
. 
~ 
. I I I 
\
I \ page 14 Friday, November 11, 1988
The Observer 
I '
I\ 
~\ Pamenter making a splash with Irish swim team
1. 
I· 
I'I ~ i ) I 
I,I~ 
~ I
lj 
. I:~iI. 
·~ 
ll 
i1 
:~ 
I) 
: i 
!~ 
III ~ . t 
f 1. 

if ~ . 
J 
~i :~ 
I\ 
~ 
I 
:)
\ . 
.I 
' 
j <. 
By KEVIN REISCH Sports Writer 
Irish swimmer Katie Pamenter has learned how to handle the busy schedule that goes along with being a student-athlete. 
Now, she is giving her oppo­nents a clinic on life in the fast lane as she speeds past them in the pool. 
"I don't have much free time here because of swimming and practice and studying," said the freshman from Brookfield, WI. "It's been difficult to ad­just, but things are starting to get better now. I'm glad I started out hard in the begin­ning, because it made me push more." 
The newcomer· has pushed hard enough to make an imme­diate impact this season with three victories in the first two meets. 

Gator 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame notified his selec­tion committee. · 
"Their concern as related to us was there is the possibility of playing a lesser-ranked team with more than one loss,'' said Holmes, who extends an 
automatic bid to the SEC champion--either Louisiana 
State  (6-2),  Auburn  (8-1)  or  
Georgia (7-2).  
''They  wanted  to  turn  us  
loose  instead  of  keeping  us  

hanging. I. respect them for that and appreciate it." 

Pamenter will spring into ac­
tion tonight at 5 p.m. when 
Notre Dame takes on 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee in Rolfs 
Aquatic Center. The Irish will · 
be looking to bounce back from 
successive defeats to Texas Ch­
ristian last weekend. 

"I think Wisconsin-
Milwaukee will be a worthy op­
ponent,'' said Irish coach Tim 
Welsh. ''They will be ready and 
eager to beat us when they 
come here. We have been train­
ing very hard and very fast this 
week. Our team is now 
cohesive, aggressive, and ex­
cited about the upcoming 
meets." . 

In its first road meet, the swim team will travel to Ferris State on Saturday. 
This weekend, Katie Pamenter hopes to build upon her early success in order to contribute to the team. 
During her first collegiate meet last week, Pamenter en­tered two individual races and won both. She breezed by the field in the 200-yard freestyle event with a time of 1:58.07 and completed the 200-yard back­stroke race in 2:16.12. To com­plement these totals, Pamenter started off a 400­yard medley relay in which the Irish finished second to Texas Christian. 
On the following night, she continued to make waves in the Notre Dame Invitationals. First of all, she took part in the 400-yard backstroke relay, in which the Irish women coasted to their only victory of the day. In addition, the freshman boosted Notre Dame to three second-place outcomes. 
"Doing really well was excit­ing," Pamenter said. "It was great and I was so happy to be able to contribute so much to the team. Sure, you're swim­ming as an individual to try to better your times, but you're 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 

"The B-day" is finally here .... 



QRSt't Wf'LL 
CHINESE·IIIDICAI RESTAUUIT 

~c a.cttu.n, ~n • HunM Cul81nef 
Lunches· starting at _____ $3.45 Dinners starting at______ $4.95 Bedcnucml open 1 days 
Mon,.Thutl. 11:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sut. 11:30 am to 11 pm SUD. &Holiclays 11:30 am to 10 pm 
130 Dixie Hwy.• Roaeland (JMXt to Ranclall's ban) 272-7376 
S.U.B. & THEODORE'S PRESENT: A COMEDY JAM 
HOSTED BY KEVIN MATTHEWS 
THE LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ IN CHICAGO FEATURING ED FIALA as seen on the Tonight show and HBO with special guest 
Anthony Griffin 

9:00PM Thurs., Nov. 10 at THEODORE'S FREE ADMISSION WI NDSMC ID 
also in there trying to support the team as best you can and to get any extra points that you possibly can to help the team overall." 
According to coach Welsh, Pamenter displays a winning attitude which makes her even more valuable to the team. 
''Katie possesses an energet­ic, exciting personality," he said. "She absolutely loves swimming, and her positive at­titude is contagious. Katie is one of the freshmen we are counting on to provide a strong performance this year.'' 
Pamenter hopes to make it to the final backstroke heat in the National Catholic Cham­pionships Dec. 1-3. She also wants to qualify for the NCAA finals at some point in her career. 
"I have a determination that I want to strive to be better, and I work hard in practice," Pamenter said. "I think the main key to my swimming right now is having the deter­mination and the desire to go out and try to reach high goals.'' 
Pamenter chose Notre Dame above other schools because of the solid academic background that it offers. Currently, she ex­pects to major in Accounting or Finance and eventually at­tend Law School to become a corporate lawyer. 
Academics and athletics leaves little room for spare time, so Pamenter takes full advantage of those rare free moments. 
"I really enjoy running," she said. "I like to just put a Walkman on and run for an hour. I ran track in high school for four years, so it's always been something that I've en­joyed doing.'' 

Oversize kinko·s·

Copies 
Copy documents up to 24" x36" 1t Kinko·s. the copy center. 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23


271{)398 

ALWAYS OPEN T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS. WHo•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? DENNYS, 1t2 MILE NORTH OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" T-SHIRT GIVE P.WAY. FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO DENNYS WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK  
UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY -rHE BIGGEST AND THE BEST" **OPEN UNTIL 3AM FRltSAT **WE USE 40°/o MORE REAL CHEESE THAN "THE OTHER GUYS" 277-8889 18055 ST. RD #23 (BY MARTIN'S AND CUT-RATE) OWNER -MATI HIGHBARGER-ND'89 Ir---------------T-------,FRE~ DRINKS I $8.99 I FREE SIX-PACK II WITH ANY PIZZA ORDER I HALF SHEET PIZZA I I II V4 SHEET-2 FREE SOOAS I· (LARGER THAN A 16' ROUND) IIOF COKE OF PEPSI WITH II 1-2 SHEET-4 FREE SODAS I WITH 1 TOPPING FULL SHEET PURCHASE THIS WEEK ONLYIII I II I UNIVEI'ISITY PIZZA DELIVERY UNM:RSilY PIZZA ()£LIVERYI UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELI\IERV 271-8889 I 277·11089 I 277-8889 1 I txp. 110088 I Pp. lll.l0!18I ••p. n.-,oee I I1NOT v...uo WITH OTHER OfFERS NOT v...uo WlTH OTHCI'I OFF~Rs INOT VALlO WITH OTHER Ofrcns I I I I ·-------~----------------·  

Friday, November 11, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Geneser's mission could end with NCAA title 
By GREG SCHECKEN­BACH Sports Writer 
Chris Geneser is a man on a mission. A mission to hurt people. 
The 177-pound senior co­captain better known as the "G-Man" will begin his quest for an NCAA title against Air Force this Sunday at 1:00 at the Joyce ACC Arena. This is the first dual meet for the Irish after placing second in the Mic­higan State Invitational Tourn­ament last weekend. 
Geneser won the 177-pound weight class easily in his first action of the season. He cruised to a 15-8 victory over an out­matched Ferris State op­ponent. Head coach Fran McCann has nothing but praise for the senior. 
"What can I say about Geneser except that he could contend for an NCAA title this year," McCann said. 
Geneser has had a glorious and eventful history as a mem­
her of the Irish wrestling team. 
He came to Notre Dame as one 
of the best freshmen in the 
country and he lived up to 
every expectation. 
"It was a tough transition 
into college wrestling as op­
posed to high school, but as 
long as I kept up my intensity, 
I was successful," said 
Geneser. 
His intensity was definitely up for his freshman year as he posted a 28-15 record and nearly made the NCAA Tourn­
ament, finishing fourth in the Western Regional. A third place finish would have given him the tournament bid. 
"Freshman year was diffi­cult because we had no up­perclassmen to look up to and we had to do it all ourselves," complained Geneser. 
As a sophmore, Geneser wanted to win bad considering how close he was the year before. 
"I came in with a better at­titude and along with great 
1 
I l 
1 
~ 
j j I 
j 

l 
! l j 

1 
j j 

l j 
l 
Golden 
continued from page 20 began the season 8-4, they have lost some of the momentum that carried them to the Atlan­tic Coast Conference champi­onship match for six consecu­tive years. 
Duke setter Lauren Libeu, who earned ACC honors last year, will try to restore the Blue Devils to the form of old that has earned them three 
Notre Dame also faces the possibility of playing Northwestern or Penn State, depending upon the outcome of Friday night's match between the two teams. 
The Irish defeated 15-12 Northwestern earlier in the season in four games, 12-15, 15­8, 15-13 and 15-10, but like Duke, the Wildcats will be trying to break out of a slump that has left them 2-5 over the last seven games. 
"They have been down a 

trips to the NCAA tournament. little bit," said Lambert, "and 
~--'7·---------·----·-· 

Chris Geneser coaching from coach McCann and assistant coach Rick Stewart, I knew I could win," said Geneser. He improved his team-leading record to 28-4 when tragedy struck. A knee injury forced him to have arthroscopic surgery just before the regional meet. Amazingly, he was able to par­ticipate in the meet and actu­ally won it, meaning that a tournament bid was his. Then 
they always come firing back. So I never underestimate them. They can be dangerous be­cause they have some great tal­ent." 
Outside hitter Janine Makar will be among these talented Northwestern players and will 
try  to  preserve  her  team- 
leading  3.91  kills  per  game  
average.  

Notre Dame may also face Penn State--a team which has established a 25-match winning streak en route to posting a 31-1 tragedy struck for the second Ume. An infection in his knee kept him from traveling to na­tionals. 
"Disappointed wasn't even the word for it. I was destroyed," said Geneser. 
Junior year was a big ques­tion for many Geneser fol­lowers. Could he come back from such a devastating in­jury? He proved to all his faith­ful that he could, by winning his second straight Western Regional title and qualifying for the NCAA Tournamment. In the tournament he suffered a second-round loss and again was disappointed. 
"I could have done better and I should have given my oppo­nents more respect before the tourney," said Geneser. 
Expectations for the senior year are even higher than before for the "G-Man". After two NCAA tourney appear­ances, he hopes to place and possibly win. 
"I'm capable . of beating 
Penn State has not lost a match since Sept. 10 ·when it lost a three-game match to na­tionally ranked Texas-Arlington, but that was the only match the team has had against a top-20 opponent. 
While Penn State has fallen in the recent NCAA poll, Notre Dame has risen to claim the 19th ranking which had for­merly belonged to the Lions. 
The Irish had been ranked 18th earlier this year after up­setting Kentucky. 

-·---~--~-. middle blocker Mary Kay Wal-
I • '. ler, who is ranked eighth na-
I / Congratulations .,.. ':itionc~ny in blocking average' tallymg 1.776 blocks per game, / ,, to continue her dominance ofQuest for the Crown 
/ '. the net. 
record thus far in the season. Notre Dame will need senior 
Shewman expertly guiding the 
I / WinnerS '{~W~al~le;;r~h~a~s~~~~~~ba~c~kr~ow~d~ef~en~s~e~fo~r~th~e~II~·is~h. 
r 1. KEENANtBREEN-PHILLIPS
I 2. MORRISSEY!l YONS I 
3. ZAHM'FARLEY

I 
I THE SUB SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSION
I 
WOULD LIKE TO THANK: 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN: SUSAN KAISER 

I 
EVENT COORDINATORS:

I 
I 
AMY ADAMONIS 

I 
MARY JO FOGERTY FRITZ HOLZGREFER 
ZAIDA PERICAS

I 
SUSAN SKARZYNSKI JAY WASINDA SCOTT HARRIS 

MARY CALLAGHAN CARLOS GARCIA MIKE NUGENT CHRISTA RUEBENAKER SALLY STEVENSON BETH WITTMAN 
PUBLICITY COORDINATORS:

I 
I KATHY MCDONOUGH CARA ECKMAN 
I I ALSO: ALL PARTICIPATING SUB BOARD MANAGERS, 
BOARD MANAGER BRIAN REILLY AND ADVISOR
I 
I 
KAREN LEONARD 
II THANK YOU, YOUR EFFORTS ARE APPRECIATEDL •-••-•-•-----·--··-• -·~-··-··-·-~~-• -··-• -· -• -• -··-• -·--··-u-·-·-• -· 
anyone at any time," Geneser exclaimed. 
This may seem like a bit of bragging, but it is essential to being successful in wrestling. Thus far, Notre Dame has been very successful, grabbing a second place finish last weekend coupled with three in­dividual championships. 
"We are very pumPed up for Air Force and we are confident of winning, " Geneser stated. 
Jerry Durso, a co-captain and roommate in Flanner with Geneser, agreed about the up­coming Air Force meet. 
"If we wrestle like we areca­pable, we should not even have a problem with Air Force." 
Last season, the Irish crushed the Falcons 31-9 in Colorado Springs. They are re­turning seven starters from a year ago and might challenge the powerful Notre Dame squad. Air Force is 1-1 against Notre Dame in the Fran McCann era. 
self at power attacking and defending the net, as she leads the team in total blocks with 145 and kills with 322. 
Senior Zanette Bennett will also try to continue her strong all-around play. Bennett has been successful all season at taking advantage of free balls hovering above the net, tally­ing many of her 278 kills on powerful spikes into the soft spots in the defense. She has also played well defensively, recording 103 total blocks and 185 digs. 
Seniors Maureen Shea and 

Whitney Shewman have made theirpresencefeltasweu, with 
Shea registering 220 kills for a .261 hitting percentage and 

CALL TO PEACEMAKING Sunday, November 13 "PASSOVER TO PEACEMAKING: MAKING FRIENDS OF ENEMIES" 
Retreat with Jim Forest, General Secretary of the International Fellowship of Reconciliation, Author, Peace Activist, 3:00-8:00 P.M. with dinner, CSC Registration $5.00 at the CSC. Sponsored by Pax Christi. 
" ..• ... " ._ --·~. . ., .~.~ " . 

r------~-------.._____________ ~ 
page 16 The Observer Friday, November 11, 1988 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Orel Her­shiser, baseball's most domi­nant pitcher ever for the season's final two months, won the National League Cy Young Award unanimously Thursday, adding another honor to one of the most amazing years in his­tory. 
Hershiser's record streak of

~,; 
59 scoreless innings ended the 

~ : regular season and swept him 
'\ past all rivals. He wound up 23­8 with a 2.26 earned-run \ average for the World Series champion Los Angeles Dodgers. 
b 
l 
l 
Hershiser was Most Valuable Player of the World Series and 
of the National League playoffs. Voting for the Cy

lj 
Young was conducted before

\) 
the postseason began.

)\ 
Hershiser got all 24 first­

'' 
place votes and 120 points in

~J 
) ~· balloting by two members of
1'
It the Baseball Writers' Associa­
~ ~ 
n 
) : tion of America in each league \ \:) \ city. Cincinnati's Danny Jack­1:\ son, who had an identical record to Hershiser, was second with 15 second-place;) votes and 54 points. David 



Orel captures another honor 
,1 
~ i\ ~ Soccer 
continued from page 20 

lj than the Irish, yet the Irtsh win. This team has something that~\ many of those other teams 
li 
don't--chemistry. "The kids H like each other," coach Dennis ) ' Gracehassaidonnumerousoc-I~ casions. Never will you hear 
~­
one player bawl out another. I l•, • Many ofthe above-menitoned
\.! 
points may be traced directly

I) 'i I back to Grace. Chemistry and 11 leadership are things Grace in-
I. 
stills in his team. Athird is dis­

~ 
. 
ciplirie. The team's successful man-to-man defense is exactly the same as the basketball

'l 
Cone, 20-3 for the New York Mets, was third with nine second-place votes and 42 points. 
Hershiser is the 12th unani­mous Cy Young winner, the first since Roger Clemens of Boston and Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets in 1985. Minnesota's Frank Viola, named Wednesday to win the AL cy Young, was one vote short of unanimous. 
This was the first time since 1970 that only three pitchers received votes. 
The pitching-rich Dodgers have won the Cy Young more 
than  any  other  team,  eight  
times  since  it  was  first  
awarded in 1956.  
Hershiser,  a  30-year-old  

right-hander, had been one of the best and most consistent pitchers. in the major leagues for his first four full seasons. 
''I think my life will be clas­sified in two sections now-­before 1988 and after 1988," he said after becoming a World Series hero. 
Hershiser led the league with eight shutouts and 267 innings. 
His ERA ranked third, he was seventh with 178 strikeouts and opponents batted just .213 against him. Hershiser allowed two or fewer earned runs in 23 of 34 starts and his 23 victories were the most for the Dodgers since Sandy Koufax won 27 in 1966. 
Jackson's 2.73 ERA ranked lOth. Cone, who did not join the Mets' rotation until May, was second with a 2.22 ERA and second with 213 strikeouts. 
Hershiser began the season with six straight victories and was 13-3 at the break. His suc­cess put him on the All-Star team for the second straight season. 
But Hershiser, who sings hymns between innings to relax, was locked in a tight race for the Cy Young until his incredible string started on Aug. 30. At that point, he was 17-8, Jackson 18-6. 
Hershiser beat Montreal 4-2 that night, finishing with four scoreless innings. He followed by shutting out Atlanta, Cincin­nati, Atlanta again, Houston and San Francisco. 
defense, only you have to stay he didn't want to miss this soc­with your man for 90 minutes, cer season. Neither did Grace, with just a single break. Only who gave Lyons a piece of the discipline could get players to two scholarships to offset the do such a thing, and do it well. off-year of his ROTC scholar­
• There is more to the coach­ship.
ing. Jim Flynn graduated in 
The pieces fell together for ----THE THOMAS J. ------.
1986, before the success ar­Lyons, as they have for the rived. As a senior team captain 
teamthelastfouryears.Notice
that year, Flynn, a keeper, that not a single soccer gameseparated his shoulder. By the was mentioned above. Games end of that season he was the 
~~~~Y~cratch the surface of theteam's sweeper. Now he is the team's assistant coach. 
• The current keeper, junior 
Help flrevent Birth Defects
Danny Lyons, is an architect 
~ Supportt~

major. Junior architect majors 
usually spend the entire year 
'Jt' ~!~!tQLQJUl.!!!
in Rome. Lyons will catch up 
to them next semester because 
J. 
'\ "f****************************************************i 
'' ! ·~spcmsortdjlpby' ;
; 

I, 
'\ 
* 

\) 
* Weclnesdax Noy 9· Qehate the Issues 

'I
•, Yehuda Kovacs, an Israeli student in the MBA program\' ~ Edna Hidekell, Israeli International Peace Studies Scholar 
~ ; 
1' Zougbi Zougbi, a Palestinian in Peace Studies
1' Jamal Abn-Attiyeh, Palestinian International 
~ Peace Studies Scholar 

:; 
* Theodore's 8pm

'\ 
' 
* 
Thursdii)'&Nov 10· Fireside Chat

* 
Prof•.Kh Matta will talk on Lebanon



\' 
* International Student Lounge, 4:30 pm

I\ \\ 
: Frida¥ Nay ]J• MiddleEasternDinner Club 23, 6-8:30 pm, $5 

\.:: 
I: 
\' ~ TuP1=~le.:,MnYj•&!DS>ISSiOQ
1,' 
* ~

: .. :.:. ,..
* 
*
* 
* ""'­~ 
* 
* 


~eA•i*IAl~·"" ~ 
I\ 
* ­

****************************************************** * 
'l 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Nick Buoniconti, former Notre Dame and Miami Dolphins football star and the founder of the Marc Buoniconti Fund, will be at the Loftus Center on Saturday at 11 a.m. to make presentations, receive recognition and meet the students playing in the flag football tournament. All students are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
A self-paced swim program will be offered by Non-Varsity Athletics. An organizational meeting will be held on Monday, Nov. 14, at 9 p.m. in the classroom at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Students must register prior to the meeting at the NVA office in the JACC. For information, call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will host a barbecue and open sail day Saturday beginning at 11 a.m. All members are asked to attend. Race team practices for the Timme Angsten Regatta will be held every day next week from 3 to 5:30p.m. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will have a meeting today at 4:30p.m. in LaFortune near the Sorin Room. A schedule of ice times will be handed out as part of this meeting. All players are expected to attend. Any questions should be directed to John Kirk at 289-1124. -Associated Press 
The NO-Air Force wrestling dual meet Sunday has had a time change. It was previously scheduled for 2 p.m., but it now will begin at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
Stanford A downed Off-Campus Hoobers 2-0 Thursday in Interhall soccer action. Stanford A will meet Flanner A Sunday at 7 p.m. on Cartier Field with the winner ad­vancing to the championship against Pangborn A. 
The Synchronized Swim Club is holding practices on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and on Sundays from 11:15 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is welcome. Any questions should be directed to Tara at x3867, Katie at x2646 or Ann at x1294. -The Observer 
HITE CENTER FOR LAWANo GOVERNMENT 


Notre Dame Law School Presents A Lecture By 
H. Richard Lamb, M.D. Univ. of Southern California 
Medical School On 
"Involuntary Treatment for the Homeless Mentally Ill?" 
Noon Room 220 

FRIDAY $6.00 
PIZZA & Pitcher of Soda SPECIAL $6.00 FRI NIGHT 
SATURDAY 
Be Cool, come Here 
9:00 pm-2:00 am 
- 
-----­ ---­-­ -­ ---­ --­ 


Friday, November 11, 1988 
The Observer page 17 
Men 
continued from page 20 
American Dan Garrett. "But 
we also know we may not make 
it. It's just a matter of everyone 
giving it their best, and putting 
out a good race. If everyone 
runs a good race, there's a 
chance we can get in there." 
Some of the other teams that have a legitimate chance at reaching nationals are Illinois State, who won the Missouri Conference Championships, In­diana, Illinois, Minnesota, and Loyola (Ill.). 
Individual runners that Notre Dame must be wary of include Bill Taylor of Central Michigan, who won the Notre Dame Invitational; John Scherer of Michigan, who finished second at nationals in cross country last year; Bob Kennedy of Indiana, who won the Big 10 Championships last · week; Brad Barquist of Mic­higan; and Scott Fry of Wiscon­sin. 
Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 


Two ways to decorate your wrist for Christmas. 
\ \ 

The Notre Dame Sportswatch 
Made by the manufacturers of SWATCH. Coming to both ND dining halls soon. 
Adworks suggests the choice on the right 
----------~~---------------------------­
However, other teams in the district have to be wary of the Irish. Garrett and senior Ron Markezich are both All­American-caliber runners, and junior Tom O'Rourke, sopho­more Ryan Cahill and senior Rick Mulvey add depth to an extremely talented, but often injured, Irish team. 
''I'd say our chances are 50­
50," said Head Coach Joe 
Piane. "I think we've got two 
great ones in Garrett and 
Markezich. O'Rourke has run 
well all year and Cahill and 
Mulvey are improving." 
The Irish have had a very 
rocky season. Including losing 
their number three runner, 
Mike O'Connor, to a leg injury, 
they also lost Pat Kearns for 
the entire season. 
Adding to the team's prob­
lems, performances over the 
last month have not been as 
good as they could have been, 
though now they are steadily · 
improving. 
"We ran a little poorly at the Notre Dame Invitational, and USC was dismal," said Piane. "Now we're climbing back up again. That should encourage the runners to progress. And lately, the team has really been coming on." 
''The other teams are run­ning really well,'' said Garrett. "If we go into the meet thinking we'll definitely qualify I would bet money that we won't. We're all going to have to be really tough. 
"If everyone just gives it their best shot, gives it 100 per­cent and we still don't qualify, there's nothing we can do," Garrett continued. "That's about all you can say. We just have to run together." 



Ditka will make weekend trip 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill.-Coach Mike Ditka said Thursday he would travel to Washington to watch from the press box as the Chicago Bears play the Red skins Sunday, less than two weeks after he was felled by a heart attack. 
"RFK is one of my favorite stadiums," Ditka told reporters from Halas Hall, the team's training camp site just a day after his release from the hospital. "I wouldn't miss it for anything." 
Ditka, 49, said his doctors told him he could make the trip . as long as he agreed not to do anything but observe from the press box. Dr. Jay Alexander, the cardiologist who treated Ditka, said he had recommen­ded the coach resume some duties Nov. 27 at Tampa Bay, and return to the sideline ful­ltime the following Sunday. 
"If I had my druthers, he'd team is really a rewarding ex­perience.''
Women 
Rice is currently under con­

continued from page 20 
sideration to be a Rhodes 

Because Rice is a senior, the scholar. She is planning to at­district race will probably tend graduate school, continu­mark the close of her outstand­ing her studies in Medieval Phi­ing college cross country losophy. career--unless she is one of the ·Senior Terry Kibelstis will three individuals who runs well probably be in Champaign this enough to qualify for the Saturday to see the race, but NCAAs. she will not be running.
Rice joined the team in her Kibelstis has been out of action sophomore year, the squad's for a month due to an injury. inaugural season as a varsity Both she and Rice say that they sport. She says that her years would like to keep running after on cross country have helped cross country. her in more ways than one. "Track is coming up soon, 
"It has been important in and I'll probably run after col­terms of discipline," she said. lege recreationally," said "It's given me a sense of Kibelstis, who will graduatepriorities. Running with the with a degree in history and 

SWEATER SALE 
November 7-11, 9am -6pm Lafortune Room 108 
100% Wool Sweaters Imported from Greece Quality Sweaters -Bargain price Corinthian Trading Company 

probably take it easy for a cou}lle weeks,'' Alexander said. "But he's going to do things his way and you can't put too many restrictions on someone like Mike because then he"d disregard them to­tally and do everything. You settle for what you can get." 
Ditka, who suffered a mild heart attack after his daily workout Nov. 2, underwent a stress test and angiogram Wed­nesday to earn his release. But he surprised everyone by showing up Thursday morning at Halas Hall in time to ~et a phone call from President­elect George Bush. 
"I feel good; I was very for­tunate," Ditka said. " ..; I had good doctors. You don't realize a lot of things about life until you get into a certain position." 
Ditka appeared tired but said he felt ''perfect.'' 
"I've been getting better since last Thursday. I feel con­fident and optimistic. I'm in good shape," he said. "There is no blockage and the arteries are completely open." 

Ditka agreed to give up his beloved cigars, and cut down on cholesterol. He also planned to reduce his coaching respon­sibility and outside activities ­everything from game plans to commercial endorsements. 
"When it's time to go home, I'll go home," said Ditka. "If I don't feel well, I'll lie down." 
· Ditka also met with his players, telling them, "we had put together something that was pretty sound. If you take out one piece, be it a player or a coach, it will still work." 
But he said he didn't plan to be away from the team for long, and that he has no plans to get out of coaching. 
"That's a silly way to look at it," he said. "People who quit are losers and I'm not a loser. But it is important that when you get a warning, you listen. I can't walk away from some­thing I've done for 28 years." 
English. "It's an enjoyable team sport." 
As Rice and Kibelstis end their cross country years at Notre Dame, the torch is being passed to the underclassmen, especially to two freshmen, Lucy Nusrala and Kevaleen Ryan. Nusrala has been run­ning well all season, and Ryan has recently begun to assert herself in the races. Both will be needed to turn in good per­formances if the Irish want to finish in the tl'p 10 at the Dis­tricts. 
Regardless of how the team finishes, the runners believe that the season has been valu­able. 
"My teammates are a great bunch of girls," said Rice. "So far it's been an exciting year." 

CASUALTY ACTUARIES 

Are you interested in adynamic career with an industry leader? 
Allstate Insurance Company is a pro­pressive and expanding personal lines Insurer. We are currently seeking in· dividuals with math or statistics majors to be Actuarial Analysts in our growing 
· Pricing Department. Candidates should possess Qood communication and ana­lytical skills, leadership capability and adesire to ~J(JJress within a~fessional organization. Computer knowledge and 1Actuarial Exam would be a plus. 
We offer acompetitive salary and com· prehensive benefits. For consideration. please send resume to: LORI MEEK 
(312) 402-7738 ... ALLSTATE IN· SURANCE COMPANY, Allstate Plaza South, Gl C, Northbrook, IL 60062. 
A member of the fjl

Sears Financial Network liJ 





Allslate· 
You're in good hands. 
Me are an equal ()(J(J()nuniry employer 

---------~ 

page 18 Friday, November 11, 1988 

at



IRISH~EXTRA 
NCAA MEN'S SOCCER TOURNAMENT EDITION Rankings: Notre Dame 15th, SMU 11th in ISAA Poll Time: Sunday.. 2 p.m. CST 


Li neups  
NOTRE DAM E ·  pos  
5  Morris, sr  F  7  
13  McCourt, sr  9  
17  Murphy, sr  11  
20  Sternberg,sr  MF  7  
4  Guignon, sr  10  
19  S. LaVIgne, s o  8  
9  Kern, fr  5  
8  Stebbins, sci  17  
10  Behrje, jr  20  
23  P. Lavigne, so  D  4  
2  Drury, so  3  
14  Augustyn, jr  2  
6  Gordon, sr  6  
16  Roemer, fr  12  
18  Crowe, so  13  
1  Lyons, jr  K  1  
1  Mayo, sr  0  
Irish Stats  
- -----­ 

SMU Pettigrew, sr McPhail, jr Preece, sr 
Hartley, so Pfeil, so Kearns, so Thompson, fr O'Toole, so Crinklaw, fr 
Davidson, jr Carlson, sr Garcia, sr Grimes, jr Paulette, jr Krejs, so 
Frederick, jr Howard, fr 
Final Regular Season 
PLAYER, POS.  G-S  SOG  G  A  PTS  
Morris, F  22-22  45  14  12  40  
Sternberg, F  21-21  35  11  8  30  
MCCourt, F  22-22  57  10  7  27  
Guignon, MF  22-22  23  6  4  16  
Murphy, F  20-0  13  5  3  13  
S. LaVigne, MF  18-15  27  5  2  11  
Kern, MF  22-15  23  4  3  11  
Stebbins, F  20-0  12  4  2  10  
*Connaghan, F  21-6  18  3  3  9  
Behrje, MF  19-7  12  1  2  4  
Gordon, WB  22-22  5  1  0  2  
Crowe, WB  17-5  2  1  0  2  
Augustyn, F  22-21  7  0  1  1  
P. LaVigne, ST  22-22  2  0  1  1  
Roemer, WB  19-0  1  0  1  1  
Drury, SW  22-22  6  0  1  1  
Lyons, K  22-21  0  0  1  1  
Scanlon, WB  8-0  1  0  o· 0  
LaJoie, MF  1-0  0  0  0  0  
Hofman, WB  0-0  0  0  0  0  
Others  2  1  0  2  
NOTRE DAME  . 22  294  67  50  184  
OPPONENTS  22  199  21  16  56  

*-injured, out for season 
Corner Kicks: Notre Dame 141, Opponents 68 Penalties: Notre Dame 383, Opponents 267 
KEEPER G-S G sv SO GAA Lyons 22-21 20 67 7 0.96 Mayo 7-1 1 2 0 0.53 NOTRE DAME 22 21 69 7 0.93 OPPONENTS 22 67 112 1 2.96 
SCORING 1 2 10T 20T TOT Notre Dame 31 36 0 0 67 Opponents 13 8 0 1 21 
Mustang Stats 
Final Regular Season 
PLAYER, POS. Hartley, F Pfeil, M McPhail, F Blankenship, F Kearns, MF Krejs, MF Thompson, MF Pettigrew, F Crinklaw, MF Garcia, WB Grimes, WB Paulette, WB Davidson, ST 
Carlson SW O'Toole, WB 
Others 
SMU 
OPPONENTS 
G~S  SOG  G  A  PTS  
18-18  36  4  6  14  
18-18  43  5  2  12  
15-15  48  4  4  12  
14-12  28  5  1  11  
18-16  30  4  0  8  
17-6  13  2  3  7  
18-18  19  1  2  4  
16-4  9  2  0  4  
11-0  6  2  0  4  
18-18  14  0  3  3  
18-18  11  1  0  2  
11-5  2  0  1  1  
15-15  6  0  0  0  
15-15  4  0  0  0  
12-Q  2  0  0  0  
7  1  1  3  
18  281  31  24  86  
18  127  12  6  30  

Corner Kicks: SMU 109, Opponents 42 Penalties: SMU 266, Opponents 262 
'KEEPER Frederick Howard SMU  G-S 17-17 1-1 18  G 12 3 12  sv 61 0 64  SO GAA 10 0.71 0 0.00 10 0.69  
Sc hed ules  
NOTRE DAME  SMU  

4-1 Loyola 2-Q Texas Christian 3-1 Maine 4-2 Centenary 3-2 Lafayette 2-1 California 1-1 Indiana · 0-1 San Francisco 4-2 Xavier 2-Q Houston Bapt. ~ Michigan State 2-o Hardln-Simmona 5-1 Dayton 1-1 San Diego St. 3-G W. Michigan 0-0 UNLV ~ Birmingham S. 0-0 N. Texas St. 2-1 Bowling Green 4-Q SW Missouri St. 3-1 Detroit 0-2 Midwestern St. o-o Wisconsin 1-o Florida Int. 2-3 Akron (OT) 2-2 Wisconsin 6-1 DePaul 2-Q SIU-Edwardsvllle 1-2 Charleston 0-0 St. Louis 0-2 RU1gers 0-0 W. Illinois 3-1 Penn State 4-3 Illinois St. 5-1 Besson u. 4-Q Texas Christian 
2-1 Wls.-Green Bay vs. Notre Dame 6-0 Detroit 2-o Evansville 2-o St. Louis at SMU 

Site: Ownbey Stadium (capacity 7,500) Series: First meeting 
Two hot teams battle in first round 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
Two hot teams will bat­tle in Dallas Sunday in the first round of the NCAA men's soccer tournament. 
Notre Dame, 17-3-2, is riding high on a six­match win 

Dennis Grace

streak, includ­ing three straight shutouts, which earned the team its first-ever NCAA bid. 
"The kids are on a roll," said Irish coach Dennis Grace. "SMU has been in the tournament again and again, but the kids are not afraid of challenges.'' 
Southern Methodist, 10-2-6, went un­defeated in its last seven matches to gain its sixth straight tournament ap­pearance. 
"Notre Dame is as good as any team of the 24 (in the tournament)," said Mustangs coach Schellas Hyndman. "It's been a frustrating season with six ties, but we've peaked at the right time.'' 
Hyndman has a personal string of 12 consecutive appearances in the tourn­ament, five with SMU and seven with Eastern Illinois. This is the first time his Mustangs have not received a first­round bye in the Midwest Region, but he believes this team has an excellent chance to do well this year. 
"This is by far the best talent I've had at SMU," said Hyndman. "We take the season in three groups--preseason, regular season, and the playoffs--and try to do well in each." 
SMU has been helped by the return three weeks ago of All-American for­ward Larry McPhail. He and midfielder Jamie Hartley form the core of the Mustangs' balanced scoring at­tack. 
''Jamie is just like Randy Morris-­he's very quick," said Irish stopper Paul LaVigne, who was a high school teammate of Hartley's in St. Louis. "But he's also lightning fast and un­defense last weekend in getting the shutouts," noted wingback Dave Augustyn. "We played man-to-man, but we've been switching perfectly to pick up the loose man. That makes it more of a team defense." 
believably strong."  
The  Irish  will  counter  with  its  
recently-successful  man-to-man  
defense.  
''We  eliminated  all  mistakes  on  


Notre Dame also has a hot goalkeeper in Danny Lyons. His nine­sav.e performance against Saint Louis gave Lyons his seventh shutout of the season. 
"The man-to-man defense is good for our players," Lyons said. "It's a more physical defense, and that's more their style. I feel really comfortable back there." 
The Mustangs defense has been stin­gier than Notre Dame's, allowing just 12 goals in 18 games. All-American can­didate Kevin Grimes and seniors Sal Garcia and David Carlson fill the back line, while keeper Matt Frederick owns a 0.71 goals-against average. 
They will try to stop one of the most potent offenses in the nation. The Irish are averaging almost three goals a game. Randy ·Morris, Joe Sternberg, and Bruce "Tiger" McCourt all are in double figures in goals. . 
For only the third time this season Notre Dame will play on astroturf. 

Irish look beyond goals of '88 season 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 

Senior co-captain Joe Sternberg of Notre Dame's soccer team was having trouble trying to describe the meaning behind the team's first-ever NCAA Tournament bid. 
"This has got to be the pinnacle of it all," he finally said after rejecting other superlatives. "For some teams, they expect it. For us, it's the greatest thing ever.'' 
Then the tone of his voice quickly changed. Goals have been reached, but the season still is not over. 
"OK, we've got the hid--good. It's done. Now we have to concentrate on winning a few games." 
It's a week of transition for the Notre 
· Dame soccer team as it prepares to face Southern Methodist in the first round of the NCAA tournament. With the goal of the season already attained, each win in the tournament will be just icing on the cake. The trick now is to change that icing into additional cake. "Now it's time to look beyond," said senior Randy Morris. "We're 4-0-1 against teams in the tourney, and we know we can beat any of the teams." Those four wins carne in the critical final two weekends of the regular season. The Irish beat Penn State 3-1 and smashed Boston University 5-1 to take the Florida International­Gatorade Classic title, then upset Evansville and Saint Louis by identical 2-0 scores to win the Midwest Collegiate Conference tournament. "We did exactly what we had to do," said sophomore Paul LaVigne. "The committee was looking for any reason 

I. .,
~·.;~.<•f,t,··.~ ....
,,.. ~.· ........· 
' 
..;. 


The Observer I File Photo "We first realized what this team could do when we beat Indiana." -Paul LaVigne 
.~, 
II; 

-~ : 
I, 
I'
'I. 
I : 
'-' 
~ \ t 
I.; 
I : 

not to let us in, and a loss would have given them the excuse." 
Unlike last season, the Irish were able to control their own destiny through those four matches. In 1987 the 
Irish  compiled  a  17-3-1  record,  but  
dropped  three  straight  matches to  
ranked  teams  before finishing  the  

season with three close wins over . average teams. 
That 1987 season made the dream of an NCAA bid a realistic goal for the 1988 season. Before 1986, the Irish soc­cer team had no reason to think about making the. tournament. 
"The bid is beyond what my goals were freshman year," said Morris, a senior. "That year, I thought just 'being ranked somewhere by the time we graduate' was realistic. But after last season the goals changed." 
The team has come a long way since 
Senior Leadership 


~
--~~~~­
. ~ 

its 7-11-4 record in 1985. A group of nine freshmen all saw regular playing time that season, thus creating a very ex­perinced ·group of seniors for the 1988 squad. That recruiting class, Grace's first, changed forever the face of Notre Dame soccer. 
Experience does not end with the seniors, however. Juniors Danny Lyons, Dave Augustyn and Rolfe Be­hrje all started last season, and sop­homores Mike Drury and the LaVigne twins (Paul and Steve) saw extensive action last season. 
"We couldn't have done it without the underclassmen," noted Sternberg. They've done it. Now it's time to do more. 
"We have to do the same things that got us here," said Augustyn, a co­captain. "We have to keep the same attitude that we can beat any team we play." 




Randy Morris  Bruce McCourt  Joe ~temoerg  John Guignon  Dan Gordon  Pat Murphy  Kevin Mayo  
The MCC player of "Tiger" is the No. 3  Co-captain  is  the  Team leader whose  Three-year  starter Transfer who scored Indiana state~ star is  
the  year  is  Notre all-time Irish  scorer  No.  4 all-time  Irish  hard work and  en- who quietly does job the winning goal to  the best non-starting  
Dame's  career  as- with 46 goals and 19  scorer with 43 goals  thusiasm  has  in  Notre  Dame's upset Connecticut in keeper  in  the  
sist leader with 40.  assists.  and 20 assists.  propelled the Irish.  matchup defense.  1986.  NCAA's  

"Without a doubt we're gonna miss their leadership. The best thing to do was to lead with them." -Dennis Grace 
Friday, November 11, 1988 The Observer page 19 
·CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
Nov. 9-12 Book Fair for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Schol­arships Fund at the Little Professor Book Center, 6305 Uni­versity Commons (Near Krogers): buy books and gifts from Nov. 9-12, deposit your sales slip in the box at the store, and 15% of your purchase will go to the scholarship fund. 
11 :30 a.m. Economics Department Public Policy Workshop with Kevin Brunson, graduate student in economics, Room 131 Decio. 
4:30 p.m. Veterans' Days Observance Tri-Military· Event, South Flag Pole. 
3-8 p.m. Call to Peacemaking Retreat and Dinner. Center for Social Concerns, registration $5.00. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30 
p.m. Aerospace-Mechanical Seminar with Jinsoo Cho, Purdue University, 302 Cushing. 

3:30 
p.m. Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar: "The Direct Liquefaction of Coal by Thermal and Catalytic Routes," by Philip Varghese, Mobil Research and Develop­ment Corp., 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 


4:30 
p.m. Reilly Chemistry ~cture Part III: "Non-Metal Redox Kinetics," by Prof. Dale Marjerum, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 

4:30 
p.m. Mathematical Colloquium: "Interpolation of Banach spaces and differential geometry," by Dr. Stephen Semmes, Rice University, 226 Computing Center. 


DINNER.MENUS 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Beef on Bun Fried Perch Stuffed Potato Skins 
Turkey Breast 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
J4'ishwich Macaroni and Cheese Baked Stuffed Zucchini Deli Bar 

ACROSS 
1 Quick study? 5 Minotaur's place 9 N M. art colony 
13 Oared 15 Windmill sails 16 Chassis part 17 "Mother--," 
Kipling poem 18 Chaney and pitcher 
Warnecke 19 Lecher's look 20 Humpty's big 
finish? 22 "The--K1ng" (Schubert art 
song) 24 Of Karnak's river 25 Well-plumed 
heron 
29 Baseball's Slaughter 30 Unrefined 32 PreJudiced 33 Morning moisture 34 Code word for 
"A·~ 
35 Removes by dissolving 36 Barn dance? 38 Mideast money 41 Chip-on-the­shoulder word 42 A hormone, for short 45 Edith's spouse 46 Shortened road ?ign 47 Facts 48 Lucre 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


49 Airline "second banana" 51 Nanty---, Pa. borough 53 Southern R.S.V.P.? 
54 .. un bel dl" is 
one 57 Holier---­
thou 59 Practical 60 Croissant 61 Moss or Gary 62 Nine daughters 
of Zeus 63 Part of a univ. 64 Spread on bread 65"-sanain 
corpore sano" 
DOWN 
1 Topped. in a way 2 Lettuce variety 
3 "Stood Dido with -inher hand" • Shak. 
4 Parks in Calif and N.J. 

14 Dexterous 34 Of Roman 44 Like J.F.K. at his 5 Paging at an inauguration
21 U.SAF. rooms
emporium? 

operations 36 Mort's biting 47 Obiter-­6 Over the hill, G.I. 
center humor? so Unwrinkledstyle prune23 Comedic actor 37 Singing1 Buddhism discipline
N YC 52 Galba's
trom ...
branch 38 Beaver's successor8 Being, in 26 0-U connection · business 53 River on Thephilosophy 27 Big Foot's width? 39 Displaced Broads9 De Gaulle 28 Grid scores persons' gp. 54 Jumping spark 

description? 10 Tree feller 

31 Fuses 40 Sgt. or cpl. 55 Aussie animal 11 Fronton shout 32 "It is better to 42 Discomfort 
56 Suffering from 12 To be, in -than... ": 43 German bakery 42 Down Barcelona Stevenson item 58 Actor Linden 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Jerks 
IT ·..s  OBVIOUS  .BY NO\J  
THAT  r  CAN'T  DRAW,  
SO  I  FIGURED  I'D  
GIVE"  YOU  A  .STUPID  
TE~ T  I N.STEA D.  H0\..1  

TOll_G_H_ ARE' YOU "l TR.'V 
Tt-\E~E TE~T.s FOR. THe M€G. A -/I'V\ Cl-fO. 
E'AI A CAN OF .BAI<'f"D ts€AN~ A~t> LOCK YOLIR.StLF IN AN EL£ VA TOR FOR. ~ HCURS 
(~ 
HUG A TOVN IE. 

Bob McLaughlin & Kevin McKay 

ENTER 1' HE ROTC BUIL~ING DRES.SE'b AS A HARE K 1\l~t-\NA 

~:..;~., 
J • ..,. 
-~ 
' \ 
DON.T USE YOUR 
SNOOZE ALARM. 
ANt> NOIJ, THE 

\JL Tl MATE TE s 1' of GUTS· DANC.E AT T HEODOR.E '.5 WHI L~ 
SOB€ R. ,, 
d 
J9 "' 


"Ho! Just like every time, you'll get about 100 yards out before you start heading back." 



Saturday: A Fish Called Wanda Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2 

~-~~---~ ---·. 

------------~-·---·---w""=------------..-~-......,..~-..... -~-~-T-.. .• __.,.
~------------------~-----­







Sports 
Friday, November 11, 1988
page 20 

Notre Dame tells Gator, Sugar to look elsewhere 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame athletic de­partment has informed Gator Bowl officials that the Irish are not considering a trip to the Gator Bowl this year,. Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal con­firmed Thursday. 
Sugar Bowl officials also in­dicated that Notre Dame will not attend their bowl because Southeastern Conference teams have too many losses. That leaves only the Fiesta and Orange Bowls in a position to attract the top-ranked Irish and a possible match-up for the national championship. 

~ ·. ~r 
I \ •r ~ . ~ 
I 
) 
\ 
' 

Only Orange, Fiesta have shot at No. 1 Irish 
Gator Bowl representatives had stated publicly they would increase their payoff to $3 mil­lion per team in an effort to lure Notre Dame. But Rosenthal said the Gator Bowl is not in the team's plans this year. 
Official bids are extended a week from Saturday. 
"They (the Gator Bowl) had not extended a formal invita­tion, but they had been in con­tact with us and said they were adding to their payout funds to attract us," Rosenthal said. "We felt that we might be a little improper if we continued to not say anything to them while they were trying to raise these funds. The Gator Bowl is a fine bowl, but they are not one of the bowls we are consid­ering this year. 
"We would be delighted to go to their bowl at some future date. But this year, in light of the rankings and the number of bowls expressing their inter­est in us, we felt a responsibil­ity to tell them that they are not in our picture." 
The Fiesta Bowl, which 

The Observer I Paul Compton other opening match with the winners and losers meeting Saturday night. 


classic. Penn State plays Northwestern In the 
Pieces fall together in Irish soccer story 
If it hasn't happened already, almost every student on this campus will have had his or her fill of soccer by the time the Notre Dame men's soccer team finishes its tournament-extended season. 
A lot of people don't like soccer. They don't care for all the hype over Notre Dame's first-ever NCAA soccer tourn­ament bid. But if these people will just read a little further, perhaps they will see that they don't have to like soccer to appeciate the story behind this team's rise to the top. 
Pete .AA Gegen J•-1 
' ·~·.)Sports Writer 
;ii' 

• 
Before thisseason, the team did not have any scholar­ships. The entire two scholarships the team received this year were distributed among 10 players. In other words, each player out of high school either turned down a schol­arship offer to come to Notre Dame, or was never offered a scholarship. Notre Dame is now one of the top 24 soccer teams in the country. 

• 
In order to adavnce so far as fast as it did, the team needed leadership--a whole lot of leadership--with a little enthusiam and dedication to boot. In 1985, nine freshmen saw action regularly in games. They now number seven senj.ors, and these experienced players established the lead for the rest of the team to follow. The team's record was 7-11-3 in 1985. It is now 17-3-2. 

• 
A lot of teams Notre Dame plays have much more talent 


see SOCCER, page 16 
reportedly has increased its payout to $3 million as well, looks to have the best chance of drawing the Irish on Jan. 2. Its officials have indicated an interest in a West Virginia­Notre Dame showdown-in Tempe, Ariz., if West Virginia remains unbeaten. 
The Gator Bowl also was looking at the No. 4 Moun­taineers as a possible Notre Dame opponent,· and Gator Bowl representative Charles Callaghan said he was ready to offer the $3 million to both teams this week. 
The Gator Bowl is the only Jan. 1 bowl game in 1989. The other major bowls will be played Monday, Jan. 2, because NFL playoff games are sched­uled the day before. 
ESPN has television rights to the Gator Bowl, but Rosenthal said television coverage had nothing to do with the decision to scratch the Gator Bowl from the list of bowls under Notre Dame's consideration. 
The Sugar Bowl also has been tossed aside for this year, and Sugar Bowl executive director Mickey Holmes said he is glad 
see GATOR, page 14 


Golden Dome Classic boasts talented teams 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 

After battling many ofthe na­tion's top teams--and often even itself --one would think the Notre Dame women's. volley­ball team would want to take one match at a time as the reg­ular season starts to wind down and NCAA bid announcements approach. 
But instead, the Irish prefer to spend their last weekends taking on opponents in sets of three. 
Tourneymania has begun. 

Notre Dame will host the 
·Golden Dome Classic this weekend, travel to Kalamazoo, Mich., for the Western Mic­higan Invitational and then spend its Thanksgiving Holiday in Austin, Tex., playing in the Whataburger Thanksgiving Invitational. 
"This is definitely the crucial part of the season for us," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. ''How we perform this weekend and down the line in these tour­naments will determine quite a bit where we are going in the future and have a big effect on our chances of getting a bid." 
Before the Irish can think about post-season play though, they must first worry about the challenging field of teams that will take the court tonight in the JACC. 
Penn State, Duke and Northwestern will help Notre Dame christen the first annual Golden Dome Classic, which begins tonight with a 6 p.m. match between Penn State and Northwestern and a 8 p.m. match between Notre Dame and Duke. 
The tourney will conclude with the consolation match at 6 p.m. Saturday, followed by the championship match at 8 p.m. 
The Irish will face a 12-15 Duke team tonight that will be · trying to rally after losing 10 of its last 13 matches. 
Although the Blue Devils 
see GOLDEN, page 15 



Runners face underdog role 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
. 

When the Irish stand at the starting line of the District IV meet at the University of Illi­nois tomorrow, more than just a meet will be at stake. 
It will be the season. 

The district meet, . which qualifies the top four schools to the NCAA Championships, will be the biggest challenge for the Irish cross country team this season, and if it doesn't qualify, the season will be over. 
Qualifying will not be easy, as Notre Dame runs in District IV, the most competitive dis­trict in the country. 
The Irish runners' work will be cut out for them, as four teams in their district are rated in the top 20 in the country, and the Irish are not included. 
Last year, Notre Dame finished third, just barely qual­ifying for nationals. The com­petitiveness of the district has caused the NCAA to add an ad­ditional bid to the NCAA Cham­
pionships, giving four  to the  
district.  
Among  the  teams  Notre  

Dame will be competing against is defending national champion Wisconsin. Wiscon-
Women aim for Top 10 finish 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 

The women's cross country team travels to Champaign, 
Ill., this weekend to compete in what will probably be the 
last race of the season, the District IV Meet. 
The Irish are hoping for a Top 10 performance from 
among the approximately 22 teams contending. The top 
two teams earn a berth at the NCAA Championships om 
November 21. 

"We hope that we can finish in the Top 10," said Coach Tim Connelly. "It's going to take a real good effort, but I think we're capable." 
There are 39 teams in the district but not all of them enter the race. Last year, when there were 22 teams, the Irish placed 14th. Notre Dame, however ,has improved con­siderably in a year. 
"I'm really excited about the meet," said captain Theresa Rice. "We have a tough district but we can run well, and we have a shot at the Top 10., 
see WOMEN, page 17 
sin again is rated No. 1 in the nation, and is virtually assured o'f a top-four finish in the dis­trict meet. That leaves the rest · of the 36 teams in the district competing for three bids to the NCAA's. 
Michigan, Central Michigan, and Michigan State are all rated above Notre Dame in the polls, and are the favorites to get the bids. 
All of a sudden, like last year, Notre Dame finds itself the un­derdog. 
"We know we can make it to the NCAA's," said fifth-year senior captain and All-
see MEN, page 17 



