A Super Tuesday
IACCENT: Terrific transpo Mostly sunny today with highs in the low 40s. Increasing clouds tonight with lows near
IVIEWPOINT:New grading policy 
30. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 101 TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


The Observer I Jim Carroll About 151 leapfroggers tried to set a new record in issued either red or green buttons, and the line al­front of O'Shaughnessy Hall Monday afternoon. The ternated between the two colors. category did not previously exist. Students were 
Tutu arrested during protest 
Prayer as police sprayed and two dozen other cler­Associated Press them with with jets of water gymen, 
CAPE TOWN, South and loaded them into vans. Africa -Anglican Arch­All the detainees were They knelt and linked bishop Desmond Tutu and freed in a few hours, and the arms as a policeman called other religious leaders from churchmen said they would through a bullhorn that the all races were arrested Mon­continue protests regardless gathering was illegal. Offi­day while kneeling near Par­of the consequences. Their cers escorted the protesters liament with a petition petition referred to an order into vans as others aimed against government bans on last Wednesday prohiting jets from water cannons at anti-apartheid groups. political activity by 18 major scores of protesters who 
Members of a procession anti-apartheid organiza­remained on the sidewalk Tutu and his colleagues had tions. praying and singing an led recited the Lord's Riot police blocked Tutu African hymn. 
Senate debates apartheid 
By GREG LUCAS The stance for complete di­situation and you think you Copy Editor vestment was argued by can make it better and over­Greg Maggetti, representa­come the evil, you should 
The Student Senate heard tive from the Anti-Apartheid stay in there and do it," Wil­opposing arguments on the Network. liams said. issue of Notre Dame divest­"We can all agree that "If you simply pull out, ment in South Africa Mon­apartheid is evil as it be­you have no leverage to day night. stows rights on the basis of make things better,'' Wil­
Speaking for the Univer­skin color," said Williams, liams said, adding that the sity's position of selective in­who is also a management University's position of vestment was Father Oliver professor. Williams, associate provost. "When you're in an evil see SENATE, page 5 
Charges arouse 
election debate 
• 
By ANGELA MCDONALD she expected that because elec­News Staff tion rules state that identifica­tion is required to vote, stu­Allegations made by Ann dents would have to present a 
Reilly's ticket for Saint Mary's form of identification. 
student body office sparked In this election, the Reillydebate at Monday night's Pro­ticket claims to have proof that gramming Board meeting. a substantial number of stu­
Mary Carol Cahill, tradi­dents who voted were not asked tional events commissioner, to show any form of identifica­
stated, "I felt my integrity was tion. being attacked in regards to Among the election what was stated in the paper procedures it is stated that about the elections in Friday's "some form of I.D. is required­article." 
-SMC preferred." But a letter Reilly said Thursday that the sent to Reilly's ticket by the election system is flawed be­election committee stated that cause it allows for potential "positive visual identification,problems, giving people in stu­including request for name, so­dent government who man the cial security number, address, polls too much leeway. 
etc. is acceptable."
Ann Reilly said Monday The Reilly ticket said they do night, "We're not impugning not agree with this proceduretheir integrity, we just feel that and that it should be changed. 
there are flaws in the current The Reilly ticket submitted asystem." 
petition for a revote for the in­Members of Reilly's ticket itial election as well as a coverstated they were upset because letter explaining their ob~~­of the way in which some of the voting took place. Reilly said 
see ELECTION, page 4 
Deadline now set for transfer to new dorms 
By KENDRA MORRILL juniors, includes a transfer ap­Copy Editor plication which must be returned to Student Residences 
Notre Dame women have un­by 5 p.m. March 25. til March 25 to request to trans­fer into Knott and Siegfried There has already been "an Halls, the new women's abundancfi) of people wanting to residence halls to be open for go to Siegfried," said Evelyn occupa~cy in the fall, accor­Reinebold, director of Student ding to a letter sent out last Residences. week by Student Residences. Reinebold speculated that 
The letter, which was sent the reason for this preference out to all present Notre Dame freshmen, sophomores and see DORMS, page 4 

Problem of alcoholism confronted by clergy 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
Although alcoholism is a dis­ease that strikes about one in 10 individuals who drink, ex­perts say, it seems to be a larger problem among clergy tban lay people, said Steve Newton, special proj­ects coordinator of the Center for Social Concerns. 
There are high rates of al­coholism among the clergy and those in the helping profes­sions, such as medicine and counseling, said Newton, a fel­low on the board of governors in the American College of Ad­diction Treatment. As a conse­quence, he said, "they usually get to treatment a lot later." 
"It's a human illness," said Holy Cross Father John Wilson. "Priests, brothers and sisters would be expected to catch colds just like anybody else. I've heard that one out of every 10 people who use alcohol will become an alcoholic," he said. 
"I presume it would be the same for a priest." 
On Feb. 17, Holy Cross Bro­ther Edward Luther left his post as Fisher Hall rector to enter a week-long alcoholic as­sessment program. 
It was not known Monday whether Luther would undergo long-term treatment. He en­tered Guest House, a Michigan treatment center for alcoholic clergy, after an "intervention" by members of the Holy Cross community. 
Intervention, a step taken by concerned family, friends or fellow community members, is 
see CLERGY, page 5 
....--~-----------~ -·~-----~-----------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, March 1, 1988 



In Brief 
The impeachment trial of Arizona Gov. Evan Mecham opened Monday, and within hours he lost a plea for dismissal of the charges against him. Mecham stayed at the suburban Glendale offices of his "government in exile," and said he was too busy to watch the proceedings on television. A former Mecham supporter in the state senate said that judging from the heavy vote against Mec­ham on dismissal, things looked bad for the governor. 
-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Catholic Faith Series continues tonight from 7 to 
8: 30 in Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Father Bob Kennedy will speak on "What Catholics Should Know About the Sacra­ments." -The Observer 
Snickers New Music Search finals can be heard tonight at midnight on 88.9 WSND-FM. Call the station at 239-7342 to vote for your favorite band. The winning band will be awarded a recording contract with a major label. 
-The Observer 
Ifyou wear green today and are spotted in the dining 
halls at 12:30 and 5:30 p.m. by an SUB representative, you will receive some "Irish goodies." -The Observer 
"The Quiet Man," starringJohn Wayne will be shown tonight at 7 and 9: 30 in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Seniors wishing to try out to be Baccalaureate Mass readers must come to Sacred Heart Church at 4 p.m. today. Readings can be picked up at the Senior Class Of­fice. -The Observer 
The Women's Care Center!PregnancyHelpCenter is holding a training session for volunteers during the weekend of March 4. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testing, crisis counseling, and community referrals. The session will be held on campus in the Knights of Columbus building. Contact the Women's Care Center Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 234-0363 for more information. 
-The Observer 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival needs ticket takers, stage crew, and many other workers for all three sessions of the festival April 8 and 9. Anyone interested should call Ken Schwartz at 283-1100. -The Observer 
Adlai Stevenson will lecture on "Democracy and Civic Virtue: From the Greek Ideal to the Modern Amer­ican Reality" at noon Wednesday in Room 220 in the Law School Courtroom. -The Observer 
Career and Placement Services is sponsoring a Government Career Day Wednesday from noon until 4 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. Representa­tives from federal, state and local government agencies will be in attendance to discuss summer employment and career opportunities available in the government sector. 
-The Observer 
Sophomore Literary Festival is looking for freshmen to organize next year's Festival. Call Mike Evces at 283-1537 for details. -The Observer 
Freshman Orientation Executive Committee applications can be picked up today in the Student Gov­ernment Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Applications are due by 4 p.m. Monday, March 7. 
-The Observer 
University Counseling Center is sponsoring a workshop on date rape, which will be held in the Foster Room in LaFortune Student Center tonight at 6:30 p.m. This workshop is designed to increase awareness in both men and women about the circumstances surrounding date rape. -The Observer 

Design Editor .. ............... Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout .. . 
Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Slug LaFleur .......................... Richelle Aschenbrenner Typesetters.. . .. .. .. .. .. Doug Trocinski Typists................................ Jenn Conlon ............................................ Smed Laboe .. .... .. .... .... .. .... .... .... .. .... .... .. Wendy Burek News Editor...... ................. Chris Julka ........................................ Lynsey Strand Copy Editor .. ............... Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editor ....... Theresa Harrington Sports Copy Editors ......... Theresa Kelly Photographer .................. Jimmy Carroll 
Tile Olleener (USPS S99 2..QIO) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Obeener is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dule and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may he purchas­ed fOI' $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writiq Tile Obeener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Obeener is a member of Tile Mlodaled Preu. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
Steinbrenner should stick to the Yankees 
STEINBRENNER MAKES BIG CHANGES FOR U.S. IN '92: 
Jim
Fires Jansen, Thomas, and Hockey Team for "having no guts." 

Winkler
In the wake of America's worst Olympic showing since the days of colonialism, the United States Olympic Committee has put to-Day Chief gether a group to study and evaluate the Amer------------
......-----•ican effort in the big games. That's a good idea. 

George Steinbrenner, principal owner of the New York Yankees and general idiot-at-large, / has been picked to chair this committee. That's not a good idea. 
George doesn't seem to understand sports. The Olympics are of a sporting nature. Hence, 
I IGeorge is a poor choice. Who knows what sort of ridiculous things Steinbrenner might do to "improve" America's Olympic effort? 
I can just hear him telling the press, "That Dan Jansen has to go. How could he possibly let a simple family tragedy affect his skating? He was competing against communists, for God's sake. Who does he think he is?" 
Or maybe Steinbrenner will fire Frank Peter­sen, the U.S. hockey coach, and replace him with, oh, I don't know, how about Billy Martin? He will be available really soon, I'm sure. 
The United States' effort in Calgary was not even an effort. We played one-dimensional hockey, no-dimensional skiing, and no-show ski jumping. Ifit weren't for Brian Boitano, Sports Illustrated would have run a blank cover this that scores more points than Wayne Gretzky week. It is time for the U.S. to wake up and but gives up even more than that, and figureperform. 

skaters who, except for Boitano, stumble, fall, 
Enter big, bad George. slip, slide, miss jumps, and generally choke. It 
He could quite possibly be the worst thing to almost sounds like the Yankees. happen to the U.S. Olympic effort since we filed Where can America go from here? Thank the our entrance forms for Calgary. Anyone Lord, we cannot go much lower. The U.S. has familiar with the Yankees knows the insults, a good opportunity because the Winter games back-stabbing, and firing that Steinbrenner is will take place twice before 1995. Thanks to a so prone to engage in. He will probably fire new concept of not having the winter and sum­Debi Thomas for her choke performance Sat­mer games the same year, the winter games urday night, the way he has canned Billy Martin will be held in '92, '94, and '98. The summer four times for "chokes." events will be held in '92, '96, and 2000. The U.S. 
Steinbrenner wants to win, that's for sure, has a chance to rebuild and win medals with but he doesn't understand that an athlete can't the same athletes in '92 and '94. win just because George says he has to. He threatens his Yankees all summer. He begins However, with Steinbrenner at the top, we to criticize his managers while the Yanks are may not have any athletes for the '90's. They in first place. The insults and accusations fly may all quit and go into broadcasting or some­as the Yankees begin to collapse. thing. George may have to use Dave Winfield 
This will now happen on a national scale. and Don Mattingly in the two-man bobsled. George steps in to look at a team comprised of The Olympics in Calgary have come to a speedskaters that hate each other, bobsled close. America has settled for a pitiful showing. drivers who don't like football players, skiers The time to rebuild is now. The man to do the that can't finish in the top 1000, a hockey team reb~~~L~not ~~rge Steinbrenner. 
...................~~~~;·8i~i;;i~;..................ll Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
ll 
Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up g 3 M F t th Qb ff' 314 
and wish her a happy one. By the way am-pm -a e server 0 ICes, Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFOrtUne 
on pool tables ton1ght. • 
~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH PRESENTS 
THE WARD-PHILLIPS LECTURES 
FEBRUARY 29-MARCH 9, 1988 
THE LANGUAGES OF PAIN: LITERATURE, MEDICINE, AND THE BODY 
+DAVID B. MORRIS + 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29 4:30P.M. COMEDY: PAIN AND ITS ABSENCES 
**** 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2 4:30P.M. HYSTERIA: PAIN AND GENDER 
**** 
MONDAY, MARCH 7 4:30P.M. MELANCHOLY: THE PLEASURES OF PAIN 
**** 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9 4:30P.M. TRAGEDY: PAIN ANCIENT AND MODERN 
777777 
ALL LECTURES WILL BE HELD IN THE GALVIN LIFE SCIENCE CENTER AUDITORIUM 

r-----------~---------------------------------------------~----------------------------~-----------------------­
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 
The Observer 


Festival's inclusion 
By DAN MURPHY 
News Staff 
The writers featured at the Sophomore Literary Festival are not household names, said Mike Evces, chairman of the Festival's executive commit­tee. Despite this, Evces said he considered the Festival a great 
success  because  of  the  stu­ 
dents' response.  
Household  names  such  as  

Norman Mailer or James Mic­hener are too expensive, charg­ing up to $8,000 for a two-day appearance, he said. 
The average writer's charge this year was $800, according to Nick Rossi, Student Union Board cultural arts director. This year's budget for the fes­tival was about $13,000, said Rossi. 
"We try to provide a whole week of programming, which is difficult to do with the 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 
directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall 
Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M. Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 Tickets are available at Students & Sen1or Citizens $4 Washington Hall Ticket Office on W'!ld., Thurs.. Sun. only. Weekdays Noon to 6 P.M. MasterCard/Visa orders 239-5957 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~,~~~~§~~~~~·~~,~~~~~~~(~~~ 
~ 

I 
I 
~ ~ 


~TONIGHT 
~7:00 & 9:30 
~~ ~~NTGOMERY 
~THEATRE 
, LaFORTUNE 
~ 50¢ 
lllnlll JOHN 


WAYNE 
MAURUN 

O'HARA ' 
BARRY :,. 

FITZGERALD ...~-:' 
WARD BOND 
VICTOR MtLAGlEN 
MILDRED NATWICK 
FRANCIS FORD 
Cli\Ci~ES 
OF-: ~) 
(0)'1 ~



I~~~
~~~~ 

budget prevents of famous writers 
amount big name authors ask for" he said. Evces consid­ered the festival a success based on the response of the audiences, the "generally great atmosphere" and the di­versity of the participating aut­hors. 
Diversity was the theme of the week, according to Evces. "We decided each night would have a different flavor," he said, "and it worked out well. We got these different politics and concerns of writers." Evces noted Marilyn Krysl's feminist point of view, Et­heridge Knight's prison term in the Indiana State Penitentiary, Paule Marshall's insight into the concerns of minorities, Josef Skvorecky's experience under a totalitarian regime and Peter Michelson's teaching stint at Notre Dame. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival Executive Committee decides on the lineup of writers it prefers for the Festival. "We had a long list of our own that didn't pan through, " said Evces. The committee recruited two writers from its original list: John Engles and Don Hendrie Jr. Other writers on the list were unable to attend because they were ill, uni­nterested or presently working. 
Several organisations co­sponsored the festival this year to meet the rising costs of par­ticipating authors. The Black Studies Program, the Black Cultural Arts Council, the Sophomore Core Program and the English Department shared the increased fees. 
If household names are to be attracted to future Sophomore Literary Festivals, Rossi said the best way for this to be ac­complished is through a man­date from students for the al­location of more money. 
page 3 


The Observer I Jim Carroll 

Spring approaches 
The afternoon sun slowly melts the ice on St. Mary's Lake. If the cold returns, however, as it probably will in South Bend, the lakes will not stay clear for long. 

IKAPLAN 
STANlfY H. UP!AN IDIKQIONAI GNnR lJD. 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO 
INTO THE GRAD SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their frrst-choice schools. Fact is, no one has helped students score higher! 

OTHER COURSES: MCAT, DAT, NCLEX, NTE, CPA, BAR REVIEW, & OTHE~S 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
LSAT CLASS STARTS SOON!! 
vu~~~~L-----------------~ 
~­
-~ 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 1, 1988 

Armenians 
protest 
in USSR 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -"Hooligans" went on a rampage in a city in Azer­baidzhan, Tass reported Mon­day. An Armenian dissident said "thugs" beat and knifed Armenians as the ethnic hatred kindled by a. territorial dispute spread in the Caucasus republics. 
Street demonstrations, in which some witnesses said more than 1 million people par­ticipated, took place in the Ar­menian capital of Yerevan last week to call for the annexation of the Nagorno-Karabakh region in Azerbaidzhan, whose 157,000 inhabitants are mostly Armenian. 
A soviet deputy prosecutor general said over the weekend that two people in another region of Azerbaidzhan had been killed in "disorders" sparked by Armenian demands that a part of Azerbaidzhan be reattached to their republic. 
Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­bachev appealed Friday to the people of Armenia and Azer­baidzhan for "civic maturity," but state-run media reports 
and accounts reaching dissi­dent circles in Moscow on Mon­day indicated he had failed to quell the dispute. 

Election 
continued from page 1 
tions to the handling of the first election to the election commit­tee Friday. 
The ticket was denied a revote, however, because, "The committee decided that the election was valid and would be upheld," said Smith Hashagen, vice president of student affairs. 
This decision was based on grounds that the election fol­lowed the rules as set by the elections commissioner, accor­ding to Frannie Thompson, 
elections commissioner. 

Dorms 
continued from page 1 
for Siegfried is that it is less remote from campus than Knott. 
If too many people apply to transfer to Siegfried, she said, there may have to be a lottery to put people into Knott. 
Reinebold said Student Residences would like "to divide the transfers (into the new dorms) so the the numbers are even. We don't want a hall of all (off-campus) transfers or a hall of all freshmen," she said. 
Eighty-three off-campus stu­dents presently on the waiting list received the letter and transfer applications, accor­ding to Reinebold. Student Residences is discouraging "pulling people in from off­campus. We're saying if you really want to live with a per­son (from off-campus) then transfer into Siegfried or Knott," she said. "We need to get upperclassmen in the new dorms." 
Pamela Stanush, a Pasquerilla West junior, said if she were a freshman she would copsider transferring 

Student Business Board 
Applications for 
Manager Positions 
in 
Adworks 
The Cellar 



& Irish Gardens are now available 
Pick up applications in the Student Government Offices 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Deadline: Friday, March 4 at 5:00pm 

Are you interested? 
-interested In helping to manage and account for 
$3~0.000??? 
If you are... 
If you are a SOPHMORE BUSINESS MAJOR who enjoys working with 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU 

The Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body ~asurer in disbursing funds for: Student Government SUB Halla clubs and organizations 
This position will prepare you Applications are available in the for becoming the Student Body Treasurer's office,2nd floor of Treasurer the following year. La Fortune, 12:30. 4:30p.m. 
applications are due on Wed. March 2 by 4:00p.m. 
ANY QUESTIONS? 
Contact Michelle Zinser at239-7417 
"because freshmen haven't es­tablished as many strong ties to the old dorm. It would be an adventure." But, as a junior, "I want to further develop friendships I have now, rather than starting all over and meeting new people," said Stanush. "For freshmen, though, it's a great way to meet new people; it would really add variety," she added. 
Sharon McKenna, also a junior, expressed similar sen­timents. "In general, people are already with their crowd," she said. "Maybe if the whole crowd moves --but why leave friends?" 
"Second, the new dorms aren't going to have atmo­sphere, dorm spirit, personal­ity," McKenna said. 
Reinebold said she sees the absence of a defined dorm spirit or personality as an ad­vantage, giving the new resi­dents a chance to create a whole new dorm style. 
Beyond this and that the dorms are brand new, Siegfried and Knott have "basi­cally no advantages over (Pasquerilla) East and (Pasquerilla) West," accor­ding to Reinebold. 
Siegfried and Knott Halls are identical in structure to Pasquerilla East and West, Reinebold said. Each dorm can house 240 residents, with singles, doubles and quads available. Knott is located next to Juniper Road and Pasquerilla East; Siegfried is next to Pasquerilla West. 


HOMOPHOBIA IN THE ACADEMY 
A Lecture by Dr. Claude J. Summers Professor of English University of Michigan-Dearborn 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 7:00PM Room 283, Galvin Life Science Building 
Sponsored by Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College 
LOVE, DAD, MOM TISA, HEIDI &SAMANTHA 





Senior Forma 
Tuxedo Special Classic Black Tuxedo 
Regularly $44"" 

All Other Tuxedos, Tails & Designer Tuxes 
Regularly $41-\'"'-56"" 
Guaranteed 1st choice and fit on all orders placed hefore April 1st. 
One man tells another. it's 
Store Hours:



gt·trertS 
Mon. & Thurs.: 9:00 to X:OO 123 W. Washington Street Tues .. Wed .. & Fri.: 9:00 to 5::!0 South Bend, Indiana 46601 Sat. -9:00 to 5:00 
Tuesday, March 1 , 1988 
The Observer page 5 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
stewardship enables it to main­tain that leverage. 
Maggetti argued that selec­tive divestment is not enough. He said that blacks in South Africa serve as the exploited instruments of its strong eco­nomy. "If you keep investing, 

Clergy 
continued from page 1 
a way of helping alcoholics rec­
ognize they have a problem, 
Newton said. "Refusal should 
never happen because you're 
just presenting the behavior in 
a non-judgmental, matter-of­
fact way," he said. 
Priests and clergy suspected 
the economy will keep 
growing," Maggetti said. 
"(Complete divestment is) not just clearing your hands, it's taking a lot away from the South African system," said Maggetti, who advocated na­tional economic sanctions and eventually a multinational di­vestment from South African business. 
Maggetti also asked for sup­
port of the current national of alcoholism are sent for treat­ment with the intention of re­turning to their places in the community, Wilson said. "That's the objective, to put them back on the job, to restore them to health. That's the as­surance you get when you go into treatment," he said. "We're not out to get you." 
Intervention is done out of concern for the person, Wilson said. "In the Holy Cross com-
ALL AMERICAN SELF STORAGE 
5213 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 272-4434 
-114 mile South of University Park Mall, next to Circle Lumber -Reserve your space with us NOW! -Managers on-site -Electronically controlled gate with 24 hour access -All sizes available 
boycott of Coca-Cola products in an effort to force them to pull out of South Africa completely. Coke's partial divestment only "undermines" the movement, Maggetti said. 
Williams said the Univer­sity's approach to investment in South Africa is based on the "Sullivan Principles," which provide investors with ratings of South African businesses and encourage divestment 
munity, for example, a pastor might go to a very close assis­tant and say, 'Joe, I think you have a problem' and get him to a treatment center," he said. 
"The first thing they would do would be to treat it as an illness. Then they would assess whether it's alcohol or whatever that's causing the decline in performance. If it's alcohol then they would stay on for treatment," Wilson said. 
Some tell-tale signs of al­coholism are deteriorating job performance and personality changes, he said. "One priest
might use alcohol more than
another. The symptoms are the from those that promote apar­
Dame has divested in a number 

theid. 
of stocks that we did not feel 

The creater of the principles, 
were trying to dismantle apar­

Leon Sullivan, a Philadelphia 
theid," Williams said. 

minister, has since divorced 
Williams cited the "latest re­

himself from his own program, 
search'' regarding the opinion 

claiming that it has failed to 
of blacks in South Africa on 

produce a large enough effect, foreign divestment. He said 49 percent were found to favor Williams said, adding that his 
conditional divestment while 

principles continue to be sup­
only 24 percent favored total di­

ported by many corporations. 
vestment. 

"Over the years, Notre son. A priest would gradually gram aimed at helping at­not be able to perform, like coholics. "We're no different anybody else," said Wilson. from anybody else," he said. A priest at Notre Dame, for "Most religious orders have a example, suspected of having program of love and concern." a drinking problem would be Views toward alcoholism sent to a treatment center to have changed greatly in the determine whether he is an al-last five years, Wilson said, but coholic, said Wilson. There are added "the stigma is still only three or four treatment there." centers around the nation ded-"A lot of people don't expect icated solely to priests and to see it among priests or brot­clergy, he said, but added hers or sisters. They believe on "they would get the same treat-the lips that it's a disease but ment. There might more given deep down they think it's a sin to overcoming denial." or moral problem," said Wil­Wilson said the Holy Cross son. "The priest or brother 
was one of the first religious might feel that himself. The 
communities to develop a pro-stigma seems to be worse be­
s;;am;.;;.;;.;;e..;a;;;;s..;t;;;;h;,;;,o;..se~of;..a;.;....n.;.or_m_a_l:..pe_r_·--------------. cause there's more denial." 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Computer Graphic Artist 
deadline: March 4th, 5:00 p.m. 
Applications available at The Observer. 

Denial of a dependency on al­cohol or any other drug is a major stumbling block in treat­ment, according to a counselor at an alcohol treatment center. 
"Denial is one of the main symptoms of the disease," said Irma Delong, a counselor at New Horizons, a rehabilitation center in Benton Harbor, Mich. "Until you can break through denial the treatment isn't going to be terribly effective," she said. 
"There's a lot of denial among the professional people. It's hard for them to convince themselves that they need help," Delong said. "Interven­

_____________.:__~;;;::=:::===-_J tion is a great tool to get them 
L 
in for treatment." 

r..r~..r~..coo-.....,..,.--<>'"..r~.A>'"..ecoooo-~I>OC:OOOO.OOCIO't. 
§ §

§ § Another Multicultural Event: §
§ I
§ §
~ 
§ 
~ I 
§ 
A Fireside Chat I 
on Being an I 
American Indian 
by 
"Dancing Feather" I WED., MARCH 2 1 ~ ISO Lounge 2nd Aoor 

i ~ Lafortune 7:30 p.m. ~ ~ 



~~~~1 


Business
page 6 Tuesday, March 1 , 1988 

Mail from the readers Golden Dome Productions 
Sirs: 

I'm confused. The papers all agree that the dollar is falling, 

spreads info and images 
but some say that this is good for the economy, while others say the opposite. If the dollar is falling shouldn't somebody By MICHAEL J. FAEH­deal." Golden Dome, said, "We had catch it? NER But Golden Dome is not just four days to put the Cotton 
Business Writer limited to that. Golden Dome Bown spot together and it came Dear Reader: also does teleseminars. In out great. This time we have When the dollar decreases in value it is said to be falling. No matter how well or poorly March, Golden Dome is helping some more time." 
The less the dollar is worth the more dollars you need to buy the Irish football team is doing, the College of Business Admin­The image ads for the Uni­a foreign currency. For example, a dollar used to be worth there is one thing that remains istration do a seminar which is versity will go through quite a 150 yen, but now a dollar is worth only about 130 yen. This constant: the thirty second going to be broadcast across rigorous procedure. This year, means that it takes more dollars to buy a Japanese product image spot about Notre Dame. the nation. instead of one ad, there will be worth 150 yen now, than it did when the dollar was worth 150 The image spot is the Univer­Golden Dome's client list four different ads running. yen. A falling dollar, therefore, makes imported goods more sity's chance to tell the rest of varies from heavy industry to Each ad will be reviewed expensive. Economists say this is good because fewer exports the nation about Notre Dame. religious organizations. before being aired by a few test will reduce America's trade deficit. On the flip side of the Irish fans may have noticed Mike Doyle, senior president markets to see if it would coin, American goods also become cheaper for foreign that the image spot, which has of Golden Dome, deals with the achieve its purpose. buyers. A Japanese buyer now only has to spend 130 yen to run throughout the season, was religious programming. "The University gave us buy something worth a dollar, whereas before he had to dumped in favor of a new one "About one half of our religi­what they wanted the ads to ex­spend 150 yen. This also helps decrease our trade deficit. On for the Cotton Bowl. ous productions come from the press,and we have to be crea­the negative side, when the dollar falls, it takes more dollars Where did this new (and I University of Notre Dame. We tive in getting those ideas to buy goods, which then causes the prices of goods to in­must say improved) image did a spot about the synod on across," said Salvador. crease. This is better known as inflation, which nobody wants. spot come from? laity, and we do a lot of work The University set forth five 
It didn't come from the Uni­for the Insitiute of Pastoral ideas about Notre Dame that versity, like many people Ministry. Golden Dome is also they wanted to show the world. Wholihan and thought. The image ad is a in the process of making a These are: result of many hours of work video for the Center for Social (1) Notre Dame is a national Claeys put in by Golden Dome Produc­Concerns. It's going to give stu­university. tions. dents who see it an overview of (2) Notre Dame is a Catholic Business Briefs Golden Dome Productions is what the Center is about." university, whose purpose is 
a production unit which works Saint Mary's College also not only to teach facts, but also 
Sirs: out of Channel16 WNDU. They uses Golden Dome. values. I have a limited budget and am considering investing in share the building and the They are presently produc­(3) Notre Dame is a residen­
obtions. Exactly what are options, and how can they give studio at WNDU, but they are ing a recruiting tape to attract tial university. 
me a return for my money? a separate business. students. The tape will look at (4) Notre Dame is both an 
Golden Dome Productions a year in the life at Saint undergraduate school with a Dear Reader: deals mainly with industrial Mary's, and illustrate all that caring and excellent faculty, An option is a right to buy or sell given securities at a and corporate programming Saint Mary's has to offer. and also a great graduate 
specified price within a certain period of time. A call option communications. Golden Dome mainly serves school which receives many re­gives one the right to buy a stock at a determined price Chuck Huffman, executive the Midwest. They get a large search grants. within a given period of time. If one thinks that Sears is producer of Golden Dome, amount of clients from the (5) Notre Dame is unique and going to rise by April, they may, for $50, purchase a call, or said, "We help serve busi­Chicago, Detroit and In­very traditional. the right to buy 100 shares of Sears for $40 a share. Sears is nesses. We do orientation pro­dianapolis areas, who are Golden Dome is an up-and­currently selling for just over $36 a share, so for the investor grams for them. We help firms looking to get a tape produced. coming company. Their recent to make a profit, Sears will have to rise to $40.50. Come April, film spots dealing with how to "Most of the tapes run about ad campaign on WNDU has if Sears is selling for $45 a share, the investor can exercise do a certain task. Most of the seven to twelve minutes. We been extremely successful. his option and buy 100 shares for $4000 and immediately sell work falls under human re­spend a lot of time on each of They are presently expanding them in the open market for $4500. sources." them and really do a quality their staff in hopes of grabbing 
A put option allows an investor to sell a stock at a given He went on to say, "If a mar­job," said Huffman. more business. price within a given time frame. Those who purchase a put keting department of a firm Presently, Golden Dome is So, Irish fans, lookout. Next hope the stock declines. If an investor thinks that Sears will wants to make a tape to show producing the image spots for season Notre Dame will not drop below $30 by April, one would purchase a put for $18.75. its salespeople how to make a Notre Dame which will run only have a national champion­The investor would profit if Sears was selling below $30 in presentation, we'll make it for during next year's football ship, but our new image spots April. We suggest South Quad SYR's which trade for about them. We help out human season. will show the nation what $13 each. resource departments a great Chris Salvador, a producer at makes Notre Dame the best! 
~============~~~~~====~==~ 
Top 5 Network.!Y .. 


Whirlpool buys Roper firm
~~'7'NIIMP~K' 
Associated Press man and president of Under the agreement,Whirlpool. Robert Cook will remain as BENTON HARBOR, Mich. -Charles Ryan, an analyst for president of Roper and will be­
Whirlpool Corp. said Monday Merrill Lynch in New York, come a vice president of it has reached an agreement to said the two companies were a 
Whirlpool, Whitwam said. 

buy Roper Corp., an Augusta, "good fit" and each offered "This new relationship with Ga.-based manufacturer of ap­something that the other Whirlpool is outstanding for the 
pliances and lawn equipment, needed. future of both companies and
for $350 million. "Ranges has been one of the is excellent for our stock­weak areas for Whirlpool," holders, employees and cus­
Whirlpool, one of the nation's which now will have an internal tomers," Cook said. leading appliance makers with source for them, he said. 
Roper employs about 4,750

$4.2 billion in sales last year, Roper, on the other hand, faced people at plants and offices in 
will pay $37.50 a share for all the threat of a hostile takeover Lafayette, Dalton, McRae and outstanding stock in Roper, and found a friendly suitor in Swainsboro, Ga.; Kankake,Whirlpool said. Whirlpool, he said. Ill.; Orangeburg, S.C.; Chat­
"Acquiring Roper is a major Whirlpool had net income of tanooga, Tenn., and Missis­step in our strategic plans for $191.9 million in 1987, down sauga, Ontario. It had sales of 
growth and is evidence of our from $199.7 million one year $703 million in the 12 months 
commitment to the major earlier. Earnings from the two ending July 31, 1987. home appliance marketplace," years were the company's best Roper produces electric and said David Whitwam, chair-of the last decade. 
gas ranges, tillers, lawn 

r--------------------------, mowers and lawn and garden Notre Dame Pre-Professional Society tractors. 
South Bend's Original p t M tt M G h
resen S : a C a an Like Whirlpool, Roper is aPIZZA AND PASTA! Naval Medical Programs Officer major supplier to Sears We Serve The Best In ltal1an & Amencan CUismeo A Presentation of Roebuck & Co., the nation's Owners & Operators Rocco & Julia Ameduri leading retailer. The compan­35 Yaars In Business His Experiences as a Naval ies produce appliances that are 5 PM To 1 A.M. Tuesday thru Saturday Medical Officer sold under the Sears brand A Tradition With Students! March 1, Tuesday name. 
ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 123 Nieuland Science Hall "Joining forces with another 537 N. St. LOUIS Blvd' So. Bend. Indiana 7:00p.m. rgelidablte ssupplier ofnl quality 233-2464 All Interested in Health Care oo s o ears can o Y serve 
to enhance the Whirlpool-Sears 
1

•••••••••••••••••••••ll.l_______~P~r~o~f:es~s~i~o~n~W~e~lc~o~m~e~_______ relationship," Whitwam said. 

Accent 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 page 7 
Notre Dame transpo: a valuable service 
ZACH HUDGINS four years ago under the su­rides a week. Time slots are an pervision of Sr. John Miriam hour long and run from 7:45 
H
accent writer Jones S.C., associate provost. a.m. to 4:30p.m. "We have as ave you ever gotten a ride She is the coordinator for dis­many as eight riders in a time to class in a golf cart be­abled students on campus. slot during interhall football cause you have been injured? More specifically associated season. I guess more people Have you ever had to jump out with the disabled transportation get hurt and need our service of the way as a golf cart is Br. Bonaventure Scully of then." sped at you doing close to Keenan Hall. Both work with "The golf carts aren't the twelve miles an hour? Have the office of student affairs to only way we are trying to help you ever wondered how the help the disabled students on the disabled students on students In wheelchairs on campus. campus," says Jones. "We just campus get to class on a The golf carts for temporarily bought the two new gasoline snowy South Bend morning? If disabled students are run by motor driven carts for the tem­so, you have thought about the service's student coordina­porarily disabled students. We Notre Dame's transpo system. tor, Dave Freedy of Keenan also purchased a brand new This is a service available to Hall. "I like to be known as van with a lift for wheelchairs." students and visitors to help king of the golf carts though, There are three students on them get around campus if because it is a little easier than campus in wheelchairs and two they are permanently or tempo­my official title." students that live off campus. rarily disabled. Freedy coordinates 30 volun­The van is also available for The program was started teers and an average of 60 visitors such as parents that come for Junior Parents
-
Weekend. 
Although the project started out with two second hand golf carts that were electrically run and often broke down, the uni­versity just spent over $3,000 on each golf cart and over $2 L 000 on the new van. 
"The university is trying to do everything it can for the dis­abled students on campus," says Bonaventure, who has The ObserveiiMk:hael Moran 
pulled the program together NO disabled transpo Is a welcome sight on snowy South Bend days. into a very well run project. Keenan who drives golf carts. brary were also a result of this "We care about the disabled tie believes that it is an excel­committee. "There Is a definite students on campus. Not every­lent service and is glad to par­need for this service," says one knows the services are ticipate. "I love to do volunteer Bonaventure. "If you live In available," says Jones. "It is work and it is an extra plus Flanner and have a class In one of the best run student that it is fun to drive around Cushing Hall of Engineering projects on campus." campus." He jokingly contin­then that Is a pretty far walk." The Notre Dame disabled ued, "It is especially helpful on To volunteer or to ask to get transportation service is only laundry days." a ride to or from class, call available to Notre Dame stu­The service originated from a Freedy at 3367. The service dents. It is also separate from committee that meets twice a asks that 24 hours notice be the golf cart service that is year to examine the needs of given to schedule rides but, if available to varsity athletes. disabled students on campus. there is a real need, a ride can Jim Lark is a sophomore in The electric doors on the li-be scheduled in less time. 

'A Year in the Life' worth the time 
P
eople complain about there manufacturing company) to­all except Maxie, the Gardner's and enhanced by this show's Gardners are his real-life fam­not being anything good on gether. dog. superb cast. Richard Kiley is ily. Peterson plays the intelli­TV more often than there are Joe has four children. Anne The plots on the show are the most believable and con­gent, carefree Sonny flawlessly. reruns of "Moonlighting." Un­(Wendy Philips), 34, has been spectacular. Each episode vincing television patriarch If the show is around as long fortunately, many times they married and divorced twice. focuses on a few characters. since Robert Young in "Father as it deserves to be, these two are right. Keeping this in mind, Once a flower child, Anne Often times, some characters Knows Best." actors will have plenty of op­it is mind-boggling to under­struggles to have a modern are not even featured in an Philips and Arkin are espe­portunity to exercise and stand why three of television's attitude toward her two episode. This helps to keep the cially talented; however, the develop their outstanding tal­best programs are aired oppo­children (both by her first hus­viewers' attention focused on entire cast is worthy of praise ents. site one another. On Wednes­band): David (Trey Ames) and the main action. Death, as their acting talents melt to­"A Year in the Life" is a com­days ABC shows "Hooperman" Sonny (Amanda Peterson). divorce, peer pressure, and gether to form a solid family bination of "The Waltons," religious discrimination are just show. Nevertheless, if any ac­"Family" and "thirtysomething." a few of the issues "A Year in tors steal the show, they are These are real-life charactersJoe Bucolo 
the Life" addresses...and they that viewers do care about in
Trey Ames and Amanda Peter­... do it brilliantly. son. modern (often yuppie) situa­To be continued... ·' 
Case in point: the February Ames' performance as con­tions. Don't hear about it the 17th episode. It feautured the fused adolescent David is so day after. Tune in...and live "A return of Keith, Anne's first real the viewers wonder if the Year in the Life." 
and "Slap Maxwell." In the Lindley Is Joe's second child. husband. The viewers could same timeslot. NBC airs "A Played by Jayne Atkinson, this feel the tension. Anne did not Year in the Life," its newest-­30-year-old is married to Jim want to deprive Keith of his and probably best--drama. Eisenberg (Adam Arkin), a children's love. Sonny acted as 
Based on 1986's hit mini­respectable attorney. They have if she and Keith were best of series of the same title, "A Year a baby, Ruthie, named after friends while David could not In the Life" Is a one hour fam­Joe's late wife, Ruth (played by cope with the situation; he ily drama which airs Wednes­Eva-Marie Saint· in the mini­hated his father. days at 9 p.m. on NBC. The series). Another plot deals with the show deals with (you guessed Jack (Morgan Stevens) is death of one of Joe's old war it) a family: the Gardners of Joe's third child. Already buddies. Again the viewers find Seattle, Washington. The head married and divorced at 29, themselves caught in a situa­of the family is Joe Gardner Jack is the family "rebel." tion of passion and sorrow as (Richard Kiley). A grandfather Sam (David Oliver), 23, is old friendships are renewed 
and old wounds reopened.
three times over and recently Joe's "baby." He is married to The plots, intriguing in and
widowed, Joe must hold his Kay (Sarah Jessica Parker). famil and business 
Well, those are the Gardners... 
of themselves, are accentuated 







View 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 

.
New grade a positive Step 
The purpose of a university's grading system is to reflect accurately a student's achievement in the classroom. 
In order to best pursue this purpose, the Registrar's Office, after a recommendation from student government, has added "B +," "C +" and "C-" grades. The addition of these grades is a necessary step for the University and will eventually benefit both students and professors. 
The increase in the actual number of grades available from seven to 10 will ensure more precise measurements of a student's work. Previously, a student whose work was on the borderline between grades would rise or drop an entire half letter grade. 
When the new system goes into effect next semester, if a student is on the border of a grade, he will gain or lose only a third of a letter grade. Eventually, this will work to the benefit of the students by bringing consistency. 
The system also will bring the University's grading system in line with other schools which the Office of Advanced Studies judged to be comparable to Notre Dame. This system should ultimately benefit students when applying to graduate schools and competing with others who are graded on a similar system. 
The Registrar, however, must exercise caution in explain­ing the system to graduate schools. Because implementation of the system will result in two different grade scales for this year's underclassmen, it is vital to make clear how the system works. 
A grade point average's worth is relative to the university. Therefore, particular attention should be paid to juniors, who have had six semesters under the current system, making their averages the most inconsistent upon graduation. 
Despite these drawbacks, the new grading system should be a plus for all students. 
-The Observer 

Registrar work together 
Student Government and the Registrar's Office: an unusual but effective alliance which worked hard to achieve the common goal of add­ing "+" grades to Notre Dame's grading system. The combination proved successful when the Aca­demic Council approved the pro­posal to change the grading system by both adding "B +", "C +" and "C­" grades and by making the corres­ponding changes in point values. 
Daniel H. Winicur 
guest column 
There are several reasons why the registrar proposed this grading sys­tem. Notre Dame is the only univer­sity among it's peer institutions (chosen by the Office of Advanced Studies most closely to match Notre Dame's educational quality) to use the "-" letter grading system. Fur­thermore, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College are the only schools, out of 1388 colleges and universities in the United States surveyed by the American Association of Collegiate
Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO), which use our current system. The national trend is towards the "+!-" letter grade sys­tem, and adopting the system used by the vast majority of our peers will make the transcripts of our graduates more understandable and acceptable to professional graduate schools. 
In addition, the "+!-" letter grade system has been in. use by the Notre Dame Law School since the 1981-82 
academic year. Having a single
.....------------------------........1 grading system for the entire Uni­
r----------------------------, versity makes it easier for students 
On a weekly basis The Observer will select an issue that is of interest to the community. In order to present various views on the issue, columns will be solicited from members of the school community. An invitation is also ex­tended to members of the Administration. In addition to these contributions, The Observer will also comment on the issue. 
The Observer welcomes letters to the Editor concerning the opinions presented on these and other issues. The Observer, however, reserves the right to edit all letters, and the shorter the letter the better chance it has for publication. You may address the letters to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The News is reporiQd as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

New grading 
who take courses in one part of the University to transfer their grades to another (e.g., Law School students who take graduate school or Busi­ness School courses, and vice versa). 
The additional grades in the new system will increase the number of passing grade levels from six to nine, providing instructors with greater flexibility and precision in grading. There is research, reported in an 1987 AACRAO Monograph, which shows that the larger number of grade levels decreases the "error due to grouping" (the error in mea­surement which occurs when the class interval in the grouped data is too narrow or too wide). This may allow instructors to give grades which more closely match student achievement. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ... . Managing Editor ... . News Editor .. . News Editor .. . Viewpoint Editor... Sports Editor .. . Accent Editor .. . Saint Mary's Editor ... Photo Editor ... 
I 

W.ii\L(::·,,:,., .•..:::::•.:£<<'':;x;;:'t/<::·'·'·" 
The Registrar's Office therefore 
felt that a strong argument could be 
made for the "+I-" letter grading 
system, both on its own merits and 
on the basis of bringing Notre Dame 
in line with our peer colleges and 
universities. 
The implementation of the new 
system will begin with the mid­
semester grades of the fall 1988-89 
semester. For a period of up to three 
years, some students will have 
grades earned under both the new 
and the old systems, and this will be 
explained in a legend on the back of 
our transcripts. The Law School 
went through this seven years ago; 
the transition was very smooth and 
caused no problems. There will be 
no change in the grade point 
averages needed for graduation or 
............... l<evin Becker . ........ Mark Pankowski .. ......... Chris Bednarski .......... Jim Riley .. ............. Chris Murphy . . Dennis Corrigan ....... Michael Naughton Sandy Cerim.,:~ Jim Carroll 
Operations Board 

Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindetle• Graphic Ms Manager ...................... Laura 
Founded November 3, 1111 

page 8-9 



oint 
system: a plus or minus? 
New options to grading system may account for inconsistencies 
Doonesbury 

from other universities. The fact of the matter is that grades only have relative significance. An "A-" in a government class at Notre Dame, for example, in no way compares to an "A-" in a government class at the University of Michigan, the Univer­sity of Pennsylvania, or at Slippery Rock State for that matter. These schools, all schools, have distinct dif­ferences. Grades, then, have worth only relative to the university which gives them. 
Over the past few weeks, the HPC has discussed, at some length, alter­natives to the presently slated im­plementation policy. These alterna­tives better maintain a level of consistency in the calculation of GPA's. Although none of these proposals comes without its contin­gency of problems, we hope that by bringing them to the attention of the Student Senate, the Academic Coun­cil, the Office of the Registrar, and most importantly the general stu­dent body, we can succeed in devel­oping an implementation policy ben­eficial to all parties involved. We would like to highlight three of the many proposals discussed at HPC. First, perhaps the administration could introduce the new grading sys­tem to Notre Dame in the same way that it will introduce the Honor Code: with the freshmen. Obvious compli­cations arise when upperclassmen take freshman level courses or when frosh take upper level courses. Per­haps faculty members could employ both grading systeU'ls for those seemingly few exceptions. Second, the HPC suggested the option of al­lowing seniors to recieve grades ac­cording to the old system with un­derclassmen receiving grades according to the new system. Here too the problem about cross-sections of students from different classesin the same courses presents itself. Third, the HPC looked into the option of having the faculty evaluate all stu­dents on one grading scale, the ten grade scale, while the Office of the Registrar calculates point values ac­cording to the old system for the transitional classes, and according to the new system for next year's freshmen. For instance, a sopho­more, junior, or senior may receive a "B +" in a course, which would appear on the transcripts as such, yet receive a 3.00 for this class when the Registrar calculates GPA's. A freshman, however, would receive a 
3.33 for this same "B +". Once next year's freshman class becomes the senior class, a "B +", in all cases, will equal a 3.33. 
Although each of these three proposals have their respective shortcomings, we feel that they at least manage to maintain a level of consistency in GPA calculation. Who knows, perhaps the student body 
P.O. Box Q 
d "D" will stilf lng grade for the graduate :ie will now be ade but a "D" quality points. tle transition to oticed by most ar's Office will any individual 
n, yes, but an !xt year when luces it's new ystem, I hope effectively to nts and the ad-
is Dean of Ad­
lr. 
As many of you know, the Student Senate recently convinced the Aca­demic Council to accept a new ten grade system similar in structure to the one implemented in the law school back in the academic year 1981-82. As many of you may not know, however, the implementation of this system will occur indis­criminantly across next year's four classes. So, three classes, namely next year's sophomore, junior and senior classes, will find themselves caught in a state of transition as they will have had two grading systems during the course of their academic careers. Although the HPC whole­heartedly favors this new grading system, accepts with delight the decision of the academic council, and commends the efforts of student senators, Mike Carrigan and Steve Viz, who provided much of the im­petus for change, we feel the exis­tence of two grading systems will produce inconsistencies, unneces­sary inconsistencies, in the GPA's of students applying to graduate schools, to professional programs and for positions in the job market. The implementation of next year's new grading system needs further consideration. 

Jeff Dorschner Liam Canny 
guest column 
On December 2, 1987, the Aca­demic Council began discussing the 
J 
.____ idea of a new "+!-" grading system. 
....... The Council, comprised of 33 faculty and administration members and three students, one each from the College of Arts and Letters, the Col­lege of Science, and the Law School, adopted for Notre Dame a ten grade system. This new system will place pluses into our present grading sys­tem. For instance, an "A" will stil have a value of 4.00; an "A-" will have the numerical value 3.67; a 
I 
"B +"will equal3.33; a "B" will still represent a 3.00; and so on down to a "C-". The marks "D +", "D-", "F +",and "F-" will not exist in this new system. Thus, this new system will consist of ten grades. 
The members of the Academic Council feel that this new grading system will give them more flexibility to assess more correctly and more precisely the performance of their students. For this same rea­son, we approve of the new system. However, we do not feel it is the case, as the Student Senate clearly sug­gests in its resolution submitted to the University, that Notre Dame graduates find themselves at a dis­tinct disadvantage when graduate schools or employers compare their transcripts with those of students prefers the Registrar's proposal to the suggestions we have put forth. Such may by the case. Perhaps someone knows of a better imple­mentation technique. Such may be the case, too. Hopefully this article has at least raised the consciousness of students about the changes which await them. Hopefully, it will generate more in-depth considera­tion about the Office of the Registrar's proposed plan for imple­mentation. 
We want to avoid placing too much emphasis on student GPA's. A GPA merely measures, imperfectly measures, one small part of our per­sonal development. We have all come to Notre Dame to improve our­selves as individuals. We came to grow intellectually, spiritually, emo­tionally, physically, and socially. In its role of facilitating, often causing, our personal growth, we firmly believe the University succeeds. As a university too, though, Notre Dame must assist us in our pursuits of higher education and professional goals. Notre Dame must serve as a springboard for further success and a GPA which does not perfectly nor even consistently measure our per­formance does not make the jump to the "real" world any easier. 
Jeff Dorschner is president ofSt. Ed­ward's Hall and Liam Canny is pres­ident of Pangborn Hall. 
Reagan widens income gap 
Editor's Note: The following letter is the second in a series offive that will coincide with President Reagan's visit to campus. Dear Editor: 
In the U.S. Bishops' pastoral let­ter, "Economic Justice for All," the bishops state, "we find the dis­parities of income and wealth in the United States to be unacceptable. Justice requires that all members of our society work for economic, poli­tical and social reforms that will decrease these inequities." Clearly, as Catholics and people concerned about justice issues, we connot ig­nore the increasing disparity be­tween the rich and the poor in the United States since the onset of the Reagan administration in 1980. The income gap is now wider than at any other time since this data began being collected in 1947. The poorest two-fifths of the population currently receive a smaller portion of the na­tional income than at any other time while the richest two-fifths receive a larger share than ever before. President Reagan is by no means re­
..;,sponsible for the problem of poverty in the U.S., but his policies have cer­tainly allowed the rich to get richer and the poor to get poorer. 
Since Reagan has been in office, the number of poor in the U.S. has risen from 29.3 million in 1980 to 34 million currently. In May of 1986 Reagan said, "I don't believe that there is anyone going hungry in America simply by reason of denial or lack of ability to feed them, it is by people not knowing where or how to get help." These words are surprising considering they come 
Garry Trudeau 
from a man whose administration ended the Food Stamp Outreach Pro­gram in 1981, which was designed to inform the poor about eligibility guidelines and the way to go about applying for benefits. After wiping out this program, his budget cut money going to food stamps by 18.8 percent. He requested further cuts, but Congress refused them. 
Repeatedly, the poorest of the poor have suffered at the hands of Reagan's budget cuts. Women and children have been hit the hardest. Two-thirds of the 11 million Aid to Families with Dependent Children recipients are children, and 90 per­cent are families headed by women. The Reagan budget reduced AFDC by 11.7 percent. This, coupled with the food stamps cuts, helped cause a seven percent increase in the num­ber of poor families below the poverty line in the first four years of the Reagan administration. The Children's Defense Fund estimates that one U.S. child dies every 53 minutes from the effects of poverty. Considering this statistic, it is hard to believe such budget cuts have been allowed to take place. 
As we prepare to welcome Ronald Reagan to our campus, it is impor­tant to consider the words of the bis­hops and to search for ways to share the prosperity most of us at Notre Dame enjoy. Certainly, a continua­tion of policies like Reagan's will not alleviate the problem of disparity. We need to step back into our child­hood and recall our admiration for people like Robin Hood who took from the rich and gave to the poor rather than vice versa. 
PoUy Carl Pax Christi-Notre Dame February 26, 1988 



Quote of the Day 
"Only eyes washed by tears can see ~learly." 
~~---------~~-----~----~-------------~ 
------~-------·----------------~-----, 
1 page 10 

Raiders name coach 
Associated Press tradition and the champion­ships that were won here," 
LOS ANGELES -Mike Shanahan said at a news con­Shanahan, a former Denver as­ference. "I know these goals sistant who has been trying to can be achieved. beat the Los Angeles Raiders the past four years, was intro­"My concern is not reallyduced as the club's head coach 
with the playoffs because myMonday and said his immedi­standards are higher than get­ate goal was to help the team ting into the playoffs. Ourwin another championship. 
standards are to win world 
"It's going to be a privilege championships. It's been a to me to keep up the tradition situation of great tradition and of a Tom Flores, a John Madden great success. I'm going to try western Intercollegiate Championships. Greg and an AI Davis, that kind of and add to that success." Guffey has the story on page 13. 
1'11111 a..-Notre o.me office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, 8CC8pts claaalfied edwa'tlling from 10 Lrn. until 4 p.m., Moodily through Friday. The a..-s.1nt ~office, located on the third ftoor of ~Collge Cent•, accepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claalfiedsls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must 



Classifieds 
be pnlpllid, either In person Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cmar.cters per~­
RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In HELP·Need to sell rountrip Southbend NEEDII PROVOLONE
NOTICES 
THIS IS A THANKYOU TO ALL THOSE vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd firs, fan, to Laguardia plane ticket. Leave Thurs. A RIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON· WHO MADE MY BIRTHDAY A SPECIAL binds, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clsts, Eve March 10-Return Sun. Nite March CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 11 ON THE KELLY FOR THE
ONE. ..TO SYRingbsmt storage, lndry. 11.! blk to Lk Shora 20. Only $150-call Dan 3125 or 3127. OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING DEAR B.B., B.G., O·D, WE'VE FOUND AND THE CAKE ...TO AMY FOR THEMARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 
Dr bus, 2 bfk to ef train, Wrigley. $650. BREAK!! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON A FEW GOOD MEN. LOVE, J.G., S.V., CAKE... TO EVERYONE WHO WAS IN
m-1051 DAY. 
Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871·3397 (NO '80) THURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP K.Z. (P.S. WILL TIPPECANOE DO?) 2B FOR THE PARTY...TO ANNE, for sale ..... CALL THERESA AT X4238. STAGE, AND LISA FOR THE KISSESTYPING AVAILABLE 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· 1979 White Ford Muslang I don't have a teddy, and I may be old· AND THE BOTTLE. .. AND A SPECIAL287-4082 
BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288·095&255-$1600.00 PLEASE TAKE ME TO NYC FOR fashioned, but sometimes, something In· THANKS TO KITTY AND JULIE FOR 3684 Going overseas, need to sell. SPREAK.2685 DY side me SNAPS and ... well, lets just say THE ARTWORK ON ME...THANKS TO Call Trisha at 284·5069 that I'm full of surprises. Be on the look­ALL BRIAN
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 277· 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID SENIOR FORMALifl out, old man, because today I call your 7406 288·0955 Fioi.i'Norfi·,r;"ot:iAFie:L.os ANGELEs SENIOR FORMALifl To the guy on
bluff... the quad Friday in the MAR 12·20 Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR UGLY lime green pants... We want toTYPING -CALL DOLORES 
$165. PRICE NEGOTIABLE TWO. Q:WHY IS A TICKET CALLED A party with you!
237-1949 

271·9142 BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHYI BERNIE We'll keep our eyes open... SENIOR FORMALifl BERNIE
WANTED 
SENIOR FORMALifl BERNIE 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, physician 
UNITED LIMO TICKETS ·2 round trips JUST GOES TO SHOW YOU THAT Wha!s Importantand psychologist, deeply wlahea to 
Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any to Chicago ·$30 each. Call 233-3713 BEING TWENTY-ONE DOES NOT 
Let's See, Only t 2 More Daysadopl newborn. Welcoming warm lam· 

weekend by March 3. SENIOR FORMALIII MAKE A PERSON A RESPONSIBLE A Gold Medalistlly, love, opportunities! Expenses 
Will share expenses. Good Conversa· SENIOR FORMALIII DRINKER!! paid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and FLY WASHDC AFTER FINALS, THANKS FOR BEING THEREIIII Coke Is IT
tionalist TO SENIOR FORMALifl 
Alan collect 212· 724-7942. 
Call 1 t 08 evenings. Thurs., May 5. ONE WAY TICKET (in BID SALES TONIGHT NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. 
Sponsored by the I.U. Club of Notre male's name) on United. Lv. SB &-9 Get ready for Spring Break by selling 
Call Missy 271-0868.""••••..

Dame. 11:10AM. $75. Call Paula, 288·5158. NEW ORLEANS ROOM THERESA BARNHART unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan· 
LAFORTUNE ANN BIDDLECOM Sunbunnydora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off 
FOR SALE:77pont. Grand SENIOR FORMALIII HEIDI MOSIER What lotion are you using?
NO Ave). Open 7 dayst week 1 0·5:30. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Prix.p&j)b,new parts,85K mi.$600· SENIOR FORMALifl MEG MCNALLY Europe,S.Amer.,Austrafla,Asla. All offer,287·23876 PEBBLE BEACH SALUTES THE FU­Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the 
fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtsee­TURE WOMEN LEADERS OF FARLEY 
HI Gretchen McGuiness ! 

near vicinity for SPRING BREAKIII Can 
fng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52· Electra Westone Bass ¢ Marshall Bass20 COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID· A.A.--NOT JUST A JOB. BUT AN AD· 
leave any day. Will share expenses. 
IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. Amp. Together or separate. Marty 1106 SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT!! VENTURE. CONGRATULATIONS 
MARK, WHAT DID LAURA SAY? · Please call Missy 271·0868 GIRLSIIIII 

INTERESTED CHEMISTRY GRAD CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­350 YAMAHA 7 4 8000M $500 233·1485 "Business & Society In Japan" STUDENTS ING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT· BEFORE 10 PM ASK 4 MARTIN Optional CradiVFinanclaf Aid lNG INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM· International Internship Programs STUDMUFFIN O'GARA KATIE S. I need you tonight cause I'm PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS FOR SALE: Plane licket to Tampa. Leave STUDMUFFIN O'GARA
406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. not sleeping there's something about you OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP 3'11, return 3'19. Bargain price -Call Dan Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 STUDMUFFIN O'GARA

I LOST/FOUND I 
girl that makes me sweat. DAN I. AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: at 239·5955. NO LONGER LONGER JUST PINK AND LOST: pair of eyeglasses--brown case 
CAMPUS PAINTERS SQUISHY...BUT AN AUTHORITY FIG­Renee, RM and Carrie: Thanks for allwith initials DAL on back If found call 
2901 CENTRAL STREET SMC ADDICTION WEEK FEB. 29 ·MAR. URE, TOO the love and support you have given meDave at 2506 
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 4 SMC ADDICTION WEEK BOOGER THE R.A .... COMING TO A during these rough times. I never would 312·251-0151 SECTION NEAR YOUI!II have made it without you. I love you all

TICKETS
LOST IN OSHAG: pair of red Kombi ski 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE very much.Terri
gloves Mom will kill me if I don't find 
them. Save a me, call Tom at 4010 
CAMP WINADU for boys now hiring. I NEED ANY MARQUETTE TIX-CARL FRED 
TO THE GUY WHO DRANK FREE AT High Salary plus Room and Board. II £2187 The Screaming Midgets From Hell OUR PARTY THEN STOLE OURLOST 
you would like to spend your summer The Screaming Midgets From Hell MONEY I HOPE YOU ARE MANWOMEN'S GOLD WRISTWATCH WITH 
In Mau., write to: Doug, 290 Bradford Wanted MARQUETTE TICKETS Frank The Screaming Midgets From Hell $50 REWARD ENOUGH TO RETURN MY $70H! MVF.SQUARE FACE 
Dr., Canfield, Ohio, 44406 or call 21&-x1244 In the Immortal words of Heather For the return of a Minnesota license 
DURING JPW 

533-7497 lor more Information. O'Rourke: plate To eyes of green and heart of gold Whose please call x3872 or x1581 H found 
They'rrrrre Baaaaackllll!fll stolen from a white mustang convertible smile rivals the mothertode Who soars Wanted: 4 fun people FLIGHT TO CHARLESTON SC FOR this about in lands once 
known To whom I Anyone looking for a ride to anywhere in BREAK.CALL 1678 weekend. NO questions asked besides 
send this heartfen ode. Flitting and flyingATTN: PREPROFESSIONAL & BIOL· 

Florida during Spring Break call Jim Screaming Midgets From Hell: why anyone a vane
among the clouds Free of care,OGY MAJORS. FOUND A BRACELET 

£4085 For sale: One round-trip Chicago­This time if's for keeps ... This time it's would want a JULES·P license besides of gold Found me waiting in places ever·JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
Houston ticket over break AND for their Soufsll mel!! far Soaring higher than any mortal manFREIMANN & LIFE SCIENCE CENTER. 
GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR one round·lrip licket anywhere in U.S. Any info please call 284·505011 
should go A goofy smile peering aroundCONTACT ROBERT SPENCE OR KAY 

SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd Mike 271·0933 CLUB DANKISiff each star. Alas the air became too thinSTEWART AT 23!HI086 OR 5393 TO like a ride any day you're going. Shared CLUB DANKISIII I gasped and wheezed and flapped to noIDENTIFY. 
expenses. Call Missy 271·0868 or leave CLUB DANKISifl "SWIVEL·HIPS," Even though !he wea· end No longer could I play this game I message w-toommate. HELPIIII NEED MARQUETTE TKTS., 2 This CD Is more than flawless sound. ther is getting a little cold, you are the plummeted downward to leering grins,LOST: ONE MORRISSEY MANOR 
GA'S CALL 233·9660 ASK FOR BOB, one has keeping my heartthat been To rolling eyes and upturned chin. HighBOTTLE..QPENER KEYCHAIN WITH 
HAVE A FRIEND NEEDING A RIDE TO OR LEAVE MESSAGE warm. We will make it through together· 
above an eyebrow raised A twang of guilt THREE KEYS ATTACHED. IF FOUND 

N.D. FROM PITTSBURGH APRIL 15 -SMILE, you know why and from who·· so soon to rightly fade A net was castCALL BILL AT 3549 REWARD UPON WEEKEND? FRIEND DRIVING UP FOR NEED FLIGHT TOFROM DC FOR Coke ILU. 
To heavy sighs and potent gaze WhilstRECEIPT. 

SR. FORMAL AND WOULD LIKE BREAK? CALL 3705 
you remained among the clouds. RIDERS. CALL DREW 3666. Coke ODOOOOOOWEEEEEEEEEEIIIII 
LOST POLO JEAN JACKET W'WALLET 
To girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, He's uuuuuuuglyll LEE, YOU'REALWAYSLOOKIN'GOODIN POCKET. $25 REWARD PLEASE To girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, I want ill Please call Missy at 271·0868. 
Coke COMA lor UMOC TO US! COUNTING DOWN THECALL PAUL ODLAND AT 1747 
I want it! Please call Missy at 271·0868. Leave message with roommate. Coma Umoc Coma Umoc 
HOURS OF THE "9 1!2 WEEKS" UNTIL Leave message with roommate. Remember, H he wins by a noaa, It BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL. WE LOVE LOST-burgandy wallet,on 2-28, some· 
NEED 4 MARQUETTE GA OR STUD. Things We Won't Miss XI: 
will be by a landslide. YOU! YOUR CHICKENHEAD CHEER·where between S1eppan and the library. 
NEED RIDE TO PHILLY·DEL.AREA CALL CHRIS X3389. People named John, Pat, and Mary LEADERSIf found please call Bob at 27Hl758. 
FOR SPA. BREAK LEAVE ANY DAY 
HELP!!! I NEED A RIDE TO DALLAS OR 
Thanks. 
AND PAY$$$ CALL SCOTT AT 1663 DO YOU NEED A TICKET TO PADRE? VICINITY OVER BREAK. WILL PAY$$$. 
MICHELE KRUZE IS A FREE WOMAN! 

MUST SELL $199 I 3'12 TO 3'19 Tues. and Wed at CHIP's 4284.
PLEASE CALL GARY VIVE LA LIBERTEIILOST MY GOLD GUENE WATCH 
NEEDED: 6 HOT dates for PE's Monte CALL DAN £4258 the return of SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LYONS AND 
Carlo Night ·reply at 634 PE nowl MONARCH LIGHTEN UP PETE S.lll Dick P, "Is there something wrong withHAYES-HEALY. IT HAS A BLACK FACE I'm not coming backlll One way ticket 
drink specials both nights your face?" or is it just me? The ver·WITH A DIAMOND. REWARD GIVEN IF 
NEEDED: 4TH FEMALE ROOMMATE San Diego to Chicago March 20th $50 BPM Inc. New Issue: dict .... £4, how's your single on for
31

RETURNED. EXTREME SENTIMEN· FOR CAMPUS VIEW APTS. FOR 88·89 284-5258 Wed? Or would you rather I spent theTAL VALUE!! PLEASE CALL PATTY AT 
YEAR. CONTACT AMY AT 4525 OR TONIGHT AND TOMORROW 40 $10 Bonds night "again"? Maria's always nice lome,2807. 
JEAN AT 4244 IF INTERESTED. MONARCH 
but you can always write another check. at Chip's 13 Percent We could do donuts 'til 5, or use the
LOST-THURSDAY AFTERNOON LEFT 
DESPERATE!! need a ride to Phila., Pa. Enjoy the sounds of classic rock and roll! 
hide-a-beds in McC lobby. I'm looking


PERSONALS
MY BLUE N.D. SWEATSHIRT AT area for Spring Break. Call Trish M. 284­For The Purposes Of Capital Purchases, forward lo Chicago··vacuums run wild.
LAFORTUNE WASH IF YOU FOUND IT 44471 Senior Formal, Debt Repayments You know what? I think I kind of like you, COULD YOU RETURN IT TO THE 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, cole: a •severe pleasure"?? That's a new or is it, I don't he!e you? I missedWASHROOM OR 302 ST.ED'S THANKS 
NEED RIDE TO CHGO. 314. WILL CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE one. Callable Due 1989 
youii!Love, Nae XOXOXO 

SHARE $. CALL KRISTIN 5249. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE $70 
To girl with NEW YORK CITY tick­For A Prospectus Dial 11 08 Riders needed to Pitlsburgh for Spring
FROM MY WALLET SAT NITE AT 
COED BICYCLE TOURs-COLORADO et...Yes, I want ijl Please call Missy at
Need Marquette Tickets Ill break.Call Annie 284-5025.
CAMPUS VIEW: IT'S ALWAYS COOL ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· 271·0868. Leave message with room· W Securities Capital UnderwritersTO ROB YOUR HOSTESS· TfNG, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL· mate.
Call x1367 RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO ON 3'11ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU DRANK LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. 
CALL HOLLY 284·5485FREE. I HOPE YOU ARE MAN TO THE YOUNG IRISH LAD Can You Say: JOKE, JIG, CHUG, 10 

··········~·~·.::!:····· ...·····:· ............. . 
ENOUGH TO RETURN IT .... MEGAN. 
Last Chance For Spring Break '881 Times Fast? JULIE BRADLEY CANIIII Limited apaca remains at South Padre, I DIDN'T SEE YOU. BUT INTRODUCE J.B FOR IRISH QUEENIII North Padre, Daytona Basch, Fort Wal· YOURSELF TONITE AT JIM LOVE-DOG CARROLl

FOR SALE 
ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado THE QUIET MAN AT MONTGOMERY.
STOLEN: $70 FROM MY WALLET AT How's that?
Yes the Irish will swim at Midwest, and 308 CAMPUS VIEW. NO QUESTIONS Ia It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 show them all who's the best! In the ·Smedlor skiing. Hurry, Calf Sunchase Tours I'LL BE WEARING A LITTLE GREEN 
toll free 1-800.321-5911 lor reserva­
DRESS.

ASKED IF RETURNED. THANKS FOR 
through the U.S. government. Get the breastroke the casual men will be hot­
tions and Information TODAY. Credit YO ROTO IITAKING ADVANTAGE OF YOUR facta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex1. Psycho,Pokey,and the little tater tot! Very 
cards accepted.
HOSTESS. 
7316. 
fast the D·Men will be, Ajax will win for YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les· E.T. In the 200 our flyers will rule, Oh 
·IRISH EYES When are you going to take Renee all 
the way "home" to meet all of your real

LOST: GLASSES IN BROWN LEAT· 
HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING 
bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College those fly guys there just so cool! In the "friends?"
HER CASE WITH VELCRO CLOSURE ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. HAPPY B·DAY KTI WE LOVE Ul 2B back we'll go all out·just watch the little -Hoops, Cully, HughAND BLACK GLOVES IN OR NEAR BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE 
Confidentiality Guaranteed. green Sprout! Our sprinters will fly to !he
CUSHING LAST THURSDAY. CALL 
TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE Karen(Rebbeca De Mornay)·met you in walls, Johnny K., Tiny, and the man with P.S. Stop wimpering SCOTT AT 283-4 798. WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH AAJAX Almn. Sat. nile but never got a last name. !he HUGE, powdered·· Trillo! The divers 
21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­We have an SYR 3-5. If interested call will have all opponents in a ditch, GO ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 Chris(Felix) x1058 
George Michael and the Hairly Legged YO FATS BOYLE AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION G.B. 
Rich!Then how we'll party I hope...Just

FOR RENT 

JUST A LITTLE BETTER. Hope your weekend RIGHT TO LIFE MOVIE join Scully and I and grab hold of our Tanks for the best weekend, for all the 
turned out all right afterall ECLIPSE OF REASON 
rope!!GO IRISH! beer, and the sparkling conversation,
PLANE TICKET. NEW ORLEANS TO It was pretty routine for me. March 1, 8:15 CSC 
you MCAT study·freak (hint, hint).

RENT HOUSE DURING SUMMER CALL 
CHICAGO, SAT. MAR. 19, $60, CALL -Mr. Faux Pas All invited·28 minutes or ·the Dogs
I need a ride to CT or NYC on 3'11232·3616 DAVID, 232-8327. 
3'12. Maura x3738 Thanks! 

-~--~--~~­
---------~~~----~-----------------~-------~--~ 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Xavier hits top 20; Temple keeps No. 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Coach Pete Gillen was surprised and con­cerned to learn that his Xavier University team has made the Associated Press Top Twenty poll for the first time in 30 years. 
Gillen's Musketeers gained national attention last year when they stunned No. 14 Mis­souri in the NCAA tournament and nearly beat Duke. They've compiled a 22-3 record this year with a schedule that doesn't in-elude any current Top Twenty clubs. 
"Frankly, we're surprised that we're ranked so high be­cause there are so many great teams in the United States today," Gillen, a former assis­tant at Notre Dame, said. "The parity throughout college bas­ketball is unbelievable." 
Xavier was No. 20 in the AP poll released Monday, its first Top Twenty ranking since December, 1958. 
Temple, 25-1, landed 44 first-place votes and 1,234 points from the panel of 63 sports writ­ers and broadcasters to remain No. 1 in the poll. Purdue, 24-2, with 12 No. 1 votes and 1,185 points, stayed second. 
Arizona and Oklahoma, each 26-2, were third and fourth, separated by just 12 points. The Wildcats received three first­place votes and 1,126 points, while Oklahoma had one more No.1 vote. 
Nevada-Las Vegas, 25-3, jumped from eighth to fifth with 905 points, while North Carolina, 21-4, advanced the same number of spots to sixth with 890. 
Pittsburgh, 20-4, fell one place to seventh after losing 89­72 to Seton Hall last week. Ken­tucky rejoined the Top Ten after its 62-58 victory over then­No. 10 Syracuse Sunday. The 20-5 Wildcats, 12th last week, received 786 points. 
Duke and Michigan, fifth and 
:!**$***2******************************************$******:* 
~nua~t~~~i~l~. f:;c~a~e?e~~!~ ~i~i~;, ~~~Dh~~~r~~ :o~~ 
Paul Burke and will face and Dan Gamache. The arti-
MATE0 'S(JBs 2 
* !* 
! Presents 

i* Two Buck Tuesday! 
* 
E Any 7" Sub for Only $2.00 *
! Free Delivery 271-0SOB 
* 
seventh last week, rounded out the Top Ten. 
Iowa led the Second Ten with 581 points, followed by Syracuse, Georgia Tech, Brad­ley, Brigham Young, North Carolina State, Wyoming, Loyola Marymount, Vanderbilt and Xavier, which replaced Missouri, 17-8, in the Top Twenty. The Tigers lost both their games last week, falling to Colorado 87-78 and Kansas 82-77. 

1 spot 
Gillen hopes his team can build on the ranking rather than get complacent after having reached the Top Twenty. 
Gillen led Xavier to its best record ever, 25-5, in his first season, then engineered the NCAA tournament success last year. The team's leader is senior Byron Larkin, brother of Cincinnati Reds shortstop Barry Larkin. 

Correction 
The Observer incorrectly Also, six returning cham­reported Monday that Mike pions are competing in this Joyce had lost to Mike Noone year's Bengal Bouts, those 
finals. Noone actually had Observer r~ported that only
:**'-_N_o_o_n_e_i_n_W_e_d-ne_s_d_a_y_'s-se_m_i--c_l_e_i_n_M-on_d_a_y_'_s_is_s_u_e_o_f_T_h_e_
defeated Chris Balcezak. three were back. 

*************t*****************~ 
i : 

* * * 
! There's R I !
* ea ly * * Nothing Special * 
* * * 
E !* About the !* * * 
* *: 22nd Birthday! !* 
E 

* * 
* ..J~:*****************~
! "The Most for the Least from : , * Carl, !
i$2 The Beast from the East" $2 i ~ :*****************:
~ * *
* We Dogged You!! * 
****************************************************: ~--~*******~*****************; 

,'fA, y~ :1..,... 1-.~A,. 1.'.1......6 .... -*.., 11...-,J 


~ht !!bthttUitg 
.l.w ...1-tt.t/ 

lOaula ~ir~rlr ,§piu~s 
~Dik.lr-o/ 
lbc~rlor of ~\rts 

-/.1/ tk k..-.. f-wi..r -/ oJ1._,..6-.. J,/,."1'~'1 tAm/.­-/,.. -"'-/k..,<f' .L.w ....tk..r.l lk ....,,_., •-/ /A.. :J1,U,_ .1-0< "f-' a..,/,_/,,/ J.....f.U tk 1/,..w..,l, •·• lh ~.1.! of.~, ..<:I Y "'"'"'"A~ d.,,/a ..I·~9AI~ "'I AI 

-, I 
~c~: ~~ 
.. ,.... ~-,_..~r.,. ... 
,I,J.... s;;>as! s.~/c;__ ~..._ ........(~~ 
.., """ y~-, -/-'--i· .___, 
dt2kt ,/'"~" ;?.. .(, KJ !.. (._~ 7,' 
,..__ 

t-?-. 
time. With the right people. 
That's why we're currently visiting top schools around the country. Offering talented, ambitious students \\ith majors in all areas of study, the opportunity to inten1ew \\ith one of the largest companies in the U.S. 
Headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. we provide a wide range of career possibilities. From communications ser.1ces to publishing, to mobile phone sen1ces and telecommunications equipment. And with over 64,000 employees and total assets of more than $20 billion, there's no limit to how far vour education can take you. 
So stop by and \1sit us at the place and tin1e listed below. 
If vou ha\·e what it takes, we can offer you the opportunities to eam the rewards you expect from four years of hard work. And you can count on that. 
Infom1ation Meeting, March 2, 1988 7:00-9:00pm, Alunmi Room, Morris Inn 
@ 
Southwestern Bell Corporation 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988

page 12 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
Lance Madson has been named ACHA player of the week. Th~ Notre Dame goalie gave up just three goals in 6-1 and 4-2 wins over ACHA rival Lake Forest this past weekend. -The Observer 
Randy Morris was named Notre Dame's Most Valuable Player at the soccer team banquet this weekend. Paul LaVigne was tabbed Most Improved Player. Rolfe Behrje and Tim Hartigan shared the Most Dedicated award and Paul Gluckow won the St. Joseph Valley Student-Athlete Award. -The Ob­server 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held March 3 from 7-9 p.m. in Room 108 LaFor­tune. There is a $5 entry fee. For more information, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Observer 
Women's Rugby will have a practice tonight from 10-11 p.m. at Loftus Athletic Facility. All those interested please attend. Any questions, call Lauren 
Gracevision, Notre Dame's only hall television system, will be filming this year's Bengal Bouts. Videotape order~ can be placed at the door of Stepan Center each nigMt of the fights. Tapes of each weight class, or of the ¢hampionship night are available for $29.95 -The Olfserver 
Late registration for 1988 Men's Bookstore Basketball will be held tomorrow from 3-5 p.m. in the SUB offices in LaFortune. Any questions, call Mike at 1962. -The Observer 
J. Chapman of WSBT will be the guest on this week's "Speaking of Sports" on WVFI. Call 239-6400 to join co-host Jamey Rappis and host Rick Rietbrock from 10-11 p.m. -The Observer 
The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip to the ACHA playoffs in Dearborn, Mich. The bus leaves Friday and returns Saturday after the game or Sun­day morning. Cost is approximately $30 and ac­comodations are available at the Hyatt Regency at $65 a room. -The Observer 
The Judo Club competed at the University of Wisconsin Open Judo tournament this weekend. John Fox took second in the men's 172-pound division and Kathy Brienza took third in the women's lightweight division. Both will be competing in the NCAA Na­tionals Sat. March 27 in San Jose, Cal. -The Observer 
SMC intramural volleyball forms are now available at AAF front desk. Forms are due tomor­row. -The Observer 
David Rivers was one of the top 10 vote-getters in District VI voting by the U.S. Basketball Writers Association. Bradley's Hersey Hawkins was named player of the year and Purdue's Gene Keady was selected coach of the year. They are joined by Mic­higan's Gary Grant and Glen Rice, Troy Lewis and Todd Mitchell of Purdue, Dean Garrett of Indiana, Byron Larkin of Xavier of Ohio, Dan Majerle of Central Michigan and Marty Simmons of Evansville. The district includes Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Ohio. -Associated Pressat 3560 or Kathy at 4067. -The Observer 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
junior Natalie Illig were defeated by the Redskins' Stacey Mack and Jane Filus 7­6(7-4), 4-6, 6-1. 
The Irish dropped all three doubles matches against Illi­nois on Sunday. Gelfman in­sists that the new pairings did not hamper the team's perfor­mance in any way. 
"I don't feel that our doubles pairs were affected,'' said the Irish coach. "Everyone on our team is capable of playing with everyone else." 
Above all, Gelfman cites a lack of mental intensity as the primary reason for the team's recent troubles. 
"We did not play to our po­tential," observed the Irish co­ach. "We were not beaten technically, we were beaten mentally." 
The team will need to scrape together all the intensity that it can find this weekend as it prepares to take on Big 10 
WHEN: March 1, 2, .3 (Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday) WHERE: Lafortune Center (March 1 & 2, first floor); LeMans Hall (March .3, Lobby) TIME: 6-9 p.m. 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
FORMALWEAR FITTING 
AND SAVINGS EXTRAVAGANZA! 
Louie's Tux Shop and the formal committee invite you to attend a formalwear fitting party, on campus, for the upcoming Notre Dame and Saint Mary's formal. You'll be professionally fitted for your tux... plus you'll receive a special discounton our selection of formalwear, including: 
Basic Black Tux...........$.39.95* Designer Black Tux......$49.95* Basic Tails...................$49.95* Designer Tails.............$54.95* 
Come to the Louie's Tux Shop formalwear fitting party on campus. You'll find the style you want to make you look your best. .. and special savings on your tuxedo rental. 
SENIOR FORMAL "FOREVER YOUNG" 
April 15, 16, 17 
Hyatt Regency Chicago 
BID SALES 
TODAY 
WHERE: 

March l & 2: New Orleans Room. Lafortune March 3: LeMans Lobby, SMC 
WHEN: 
6-9 p.m. 

REMEMBER TO: INCWDES: BID PRICE: $70 
.I Buy Bid 

• 
Dinner for Two 

• 
Cocklall Party 


.I Make Dinner

*'1\vo lrec drink Uckcls • 
Reservatiorut

*Champagne Engraved Senior ~ 
' 

Chnmpogne Glasses 
-~ Make Room Reservations

*Fonnal Donee ·.1 Order Tuxes 
* * 
Masa Conllnenlnl Bnm"h* llookit"t of Information 1111 the 
powers Ohio State and Mic­higan. 


CENTER FOR SPIRITUAliTY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents 
The Fourth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 

"Women and Teaching: Themes for a Spirituality of Pedagogy" 
Maria Harris Nationally-regarded writer. lecturer and authority on education 

Thursday, March 3, 1988 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
Admission free 

For further information, contact Center for Spirituality 219/284-4636 
---1%1--­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME ··INDIANA 
weekend and Chicago 
.I Order Flowers 

"We Make You The Event!" 
Nr.t':UffQo"{l"/ C/\1.1. VINCt: AT :J.l4.1· 12:16. <TMJ.EEN AT :ltt\ '.!t4:,:z lU:.t.~l!SA AT 2H·L5l..lti UJt ..AM,N A'l :Ut·l !"o:!:.c! I 
A._,..l 

'Does not Include damage waiver fee, and shoes. 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY DEAN MICHAEL J. LOUX AND THE FACUL TV OF THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
6:30 P.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 1988 -­ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
Tuesday, March 1 , 1988 The Observer page 13 
Swimmers finish with fifth at MIC 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
"To an outsider, our finish might have been fair, but the results were truly mag­nificent." 
So said Irish swimming co­ach Tim Welsh after his wo­men's squad took fifth in the Midwest Independent Cham­pionships in Chicago last weekend. 
Illinois State won the meet with 862 points followed by Nor­thern Illinois at 597.5. Oakland took third at 566.5, Northern Michigan fourth at 459 and the Irish fifth at 422. Western Illi­nois, Illinois-Chicago, Nor­thern Iowa and Eastern Illinois rounded out the field. 
"The key thing to this meet is not the team's finish," Welsh said. "The key thing for us is that we had best times, univer­sity records, and improvement from the beginning of the season." 
Indeed, the Irish swimmers made great strides in taking fifth place in a tough field. That result was 100 points better than their sixth-place finish a year ago. More impressively, the Irish set nine University records during the three-day meet, including every relay event. 
"I was very pleased with the results," Welsh said. "The wo­men have been swimming every weekend since our return from Arizona in January and this is our fastest weekend we have had. This is our highest scoring team, with the most number of season and lifetime best times and the most Uni­versity records." 
Freshman Becky Wood led the University-record assault with a first-place finish in the 100 breaststroke with a time of 
1:08.27. She also took second in the 200 breaststroke with an­other school record of 2:27.53. To top things off, Wood was on the third-place 200 · medley relay team and the fourth­place 400 medley relay squad. Both teams posted University records. 
"Becky is a competitor and she loves to win," Welsh said. "Technically she is a very good breststroker. She loves to race and to win and she gets there by working hard." 
Freshman Christy Moston capped off a brilliant inaugural season by taking third in the 100 backstroke and fifth in the 200 backstroke. She also swam legs on the 200 and 400 medley relay teams and the 800 free team. All five performances accounted for new University records. 
"Christy's 100 and 200 back­stroke times were her lifetime bests by significant amounts," Welsh said. "She just had an­other outstanding meet. We've relied on her in a lot of events this season." 
Senior Amy Darlington closed out her Notre Dame 

Irish guard David Rivers was one of the top ten vote getters In District IV for district player of the year. The selection was done by the U.S. Basket-
career with second place in the All in all, the women's season "The thing I'm proudest of is 200 butterfly, fifth place in the left Welsh pleased and optimis­the team growth as an atl:lletic 200 freestyle and sixth in the tic about the future of the pro­unit," Welsh said. 500 free. She also was part of gram. "We said at the beginning of the 400 medley and the 200, 400 The team finished 9-7 in dual the season that our perfor­and 800 free relay teams. meets but lost four of those mance would come from a vi­
meets by less than 12 points. sion of exellence combined 
"Amy has been a consistent, The Irish proved they could with self-discipline and love for versatile, strong competitor compete against the best pro­one another," Welsh continued. throughout her four years," grams, tying for first in the "I think we are stronger at the 
Welsh said. "In the Midwest Notre Dame relays, taking end of the season in every one meet alone, she has been second in the National Cat-· of those areas. second in four events during holies, first in the Midwestern "The great thing about Notre the course of her career. She's Collegiate Conference Cham­Dame is we can say these definitley one of the strongest pionships and fifth in the Mid­things with a straight face and and most versatile swimmers west Independent Invitational mean it." in the meet." Championships. 
he is on a collision course with spots this weekend. DeCicco the top fencers of the nation in feels that of the three divisions, 
Fencers 
competing for the gold medal the sabre team has matured continued from page 16 at the NCAAs." the best during the past season. and the women continued to DeCicco remarked that he "The sabre team is on the battle Midwest rival Wayne St. felt himself to be in an "envi-threshold of being one of the 
For the men's foil team, able position" because he must best ever in Notre Dame his­Yehuda Kovacs (13-1), Phil make a decision among foilists tory ... although they don't al­Leary (12-2) and Derek as to who will be selected to go ways dominate like I think they Holeman (12-2) finished to Princeton in March. should," said DeCicco. second, third and fourth, Each school may send only The epee team was led by a respectively, behind Wayne two fencers in each division, first place finish from captain State's Albrecht Kiel. Coach and the top score is taken of Todd Griffee (13-0. Doug DeCicco remains pleased with the two. Dudinski 00-3) finished fifth, Kovacs, his senior All-The situation will be the while Ted Fay (9-4) received American foil captain. same for the sabre division. seventh. Coach DeCicco cited "I like what I see in Yehuda Lesek Nowosielski (14-0), the lack of intense competition because he is peaking at just Danny Yu (13-1) and Chris within the ranks of the epee the right time of the year," said Bauger (12-2) all posted im-team which would serve to DeCicco. "If he can maintain pressive victories in cruising to motivate other teamates. He that intensity, then I think that a sweep of the top three sabre said that he hopes that the up-
IIIIRHIIIHIU•IDIHIIIIIUIIIIIIIDODIIIHIIIHIHIIII_.......n..._. .coming training period will STUDE'S LOUNGE pr.ovide this motivation as the 
Insh approach the NCAAs. Corner of Ironwood and Mishawaka Ave. In overall team competition, 
the men placed first ahead of

-· Cordially Invites NO & SMC To Join Us: Wayne St. and Chicago. The 
women finished second behind Wayne St., and St. Mary's wasWICKED WEDNESDAY: a surprising third. Women's head coach Yves Auriol felt that the team was Frozen of Regular Long Island Ice Teas $2.50 
placed in a vulnerable position with the absence of team cap­

24 oz Draft Beers lfi1.25 
tain Molly Sulllivan who is Domestic Canned Beers $1.00 
presently competing in Europe.

Imported Canned Beers $1,75 
"Brenda Leiser (9-5) was 
tough as was Kristin Kralicek (11-3)," said Auriol. The two finished seventh and fifth respectively behind a fine 

All Shots $1.00 
THURSDAY: 
performance from Anne Bar­reda (10-4), who placed fourth. 

Any Shot $1.00 "Overall, we fenced well,"
24 oz Draft Beers $1.00 
said Auriol, " but Wayne St. was probably the best team

FREE SNACKS 
we've faced all year."

MUSIC-DJ-BEST IN TOWN TOP 40 DANCE MUSIC 
This weekend, the Irish will compete in the Midwest Regionals. The NCAA Cham­

NO COVER 
pionships are slated for March 
24-26 (men) and March 21-23

Across the street from 7-11 Food Mart 
.__.._._...._..lu•..-..m._._..... (women) at Princeton . 
Financal aid turned you down, but you still need ajob on campus.
$ $ 
The Observer can solve your problem. We are currently looking for committed, dependable, and dilligent students to typeset once a week. 
Please  contact  Mark  Ridgeway  for  more  
information.  
$  $  

GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your 
potential,  look  into  the  many  
opportunities  available  in  NAVY  
MEDICINE.  
• Medical Scholarships  

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs representative will be on campus on March 2, 1988 JOB FAIR. Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-527-8836 

r----------~----------------~------------------~----------------­
Tuesday, March 1, 1988

page 14 The Observer 
Men take two; gymnasts wrap up season 
The Men's Volleyball Club continued its blistering pace last week, running its record to 17-4 with two victories. 
The Irish started the week with a 15-4, 15-4, 15-13 trouncing of Aquinas College. That win boosted Notre Dame's conference mark to a perfect 7-0. 
"I was extremely pleased," Irish coach Bill An­derson said.· "We went out and played our game for a change. We didn't drop to their level. Our starting team really pounded them." 
The Irish topped off the week with a big win over Michigan State 15-4, 15-13, 15-4. The Spartans are currently on a one-year status as a varsity program. Anderson was especially pleased that his back-up squad played and dominated the third game of the match. 
"I just hope it carries over," Anderson said of last week's dominance. The Irish hosted conference-rival Calvin College Monday and play at 11th-ranked Ohio State 
The Gymnastics Club finished its season Saturday in the Golden Grips Classic in Purdue. 
The women took second place in the meet, while the men's squad finished third. Miami won the wo­men's event, and the host Boilermakers captured the men's draw. 

Greg Guffey 
qlub Corner 
Mary Drumm and Jen Hoover paced the efforts of the women, competing in the all-around com­petiton. Drumm's best showing came in the vault as she scored an 8.6 for third-place honors. Hoover registered an 8.3 on the beam good enough for fourth 
Paul Novak led the men with a first-place showing on the vault with a score of 8.8 and Michael Mangan competed in the all-around, registering a high score of 6.8 on the vault. 
The Women's Soccer Club finished last in an eight­team indoor tourney last weekend. 
Marquette blanked the Irish 10-0 in the opening round. Notre Dame then fell to the Junior Irish Green Team, a group of players under 19, by a 10-1 count. The Irish ended the tourney losing to Cincin­nati 6-0 and Saint Mary's 2-1. 
"We usually don't practice a lot inside," Club Vice-President Susan Haling said. "We're hopeful for the spring and to play much better in the outdoor season." 
The Irish open the outdoor season by hosting a 
Thursday and at Ohio Dominion Friday. place. tourney April 9. 
Blair leads Olympians, but most return without medals 
with the New York Knicks in ~~~~Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~ 
Associated Press 
CALGARY-U.S. athletes returned home Monday, most of them empty-handed, from a Winter Olympics that ended with a burst of fireworks but fizzled for America. 
Parting with the traditional indoor finale, Calgary staged an outdoor extravaganza that included about 250 skaters on the largest temporary ice rink in the world. 
Bonnie Blair, the United States' only multimedalist, carried the flag for a team that had come here with modest ex-
Reed  named  Nets  
Associated Press  past  three  seasons  has  lost  
players due to drug problems.  

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Two years ago, Micheal Ray Willis Reed was named the Richardson was banned from head coach of the New Jersey the NBA for violating its drug Nets on Monday and told to policy for a third time, and just turn around the club that has last week forward Orlando been plagued by injuries, Woolridge, Reed's cousin, ad­losing records and drug prob­mitted he has a drug problem lems the past three seasons. and was suspended while he un­
"I don't know if this is a dergoes rehabilitation. troubled franchise," said The Nets did not disclose the Reed, a Hall of Fame center length of Reed's contract, but 
their heyday in the late 1960s 1i 
and early 70s. "I think they have problems. However, I don't see them as problems that can't be resolved." 
The  problems  are  big,  
though.  
New  Jersey  is  12-42  this  

season and tied with the Los Angeles Clippers for the worst record in the league. The club has lost 240 manpower games due to injuries, and twice in the 
Murphy 
continued from page 16 
but Murphy remained optimis­tic about both his staff and the rest of his team. 
"Our pitching staff's going to be just fine," said Murphy. "They were very nervous. They wanted to do well very badly. The good thing is we didn't walk very many people. It'll work for us in the long run. 
"Don't anybody feel sorry for us if we have a poor record ear­ly," Murphy continued. "We've adopted the motto 'No Excuses.' We realize we're at a disadvantage with some of these schools with weather and scholarships, but there are no excuses. Come May 1, you'll see a pretty darned good baseball team." Notre Dame next plays at Indiana State on Saturday, then goes to Indiana University for a doubleheader on Sunday. 
pectations and did even worse, winning only six of the 138 medals given out. 
"It's just a great opportunity to be in the Olympics," Blair said. "If you win a medal, it makes it even better. But just being here and doing your best, that's what matters." 
That was easy for her to say. She won gold and bronze medals in speed skating, ac­counting for a third of America's total. 
The Soviets, meanwhile, set an all-time Winter Olympics record with 29 medals, two more than their previous high 
EXOTIC BOOTS SALE 

IDAN POST, NOCONA, TONY LAMA, J. CHISHOLM I IGUANA LIZARD NOWI19915
Reg. 27000 ANY STYLE-ANY COLOR MEN'S or LADIES' 
GENUINE ALLIGATOR Reg. 550°0 NOW539915 
FULL QUILL OSTRICH 
Reg. 550°0 NOW144915 
SMOOTH NOWI20915
Reg. 28500 
PYTHON, BOA, WATER SNAKE $17~~285 NOW112915 • 122500 
MEN'S & LADIES'
• 
ELEPHANT Reg. 275°0 NOW120915 
~::~~:t 112915 *116915 
SAil PliClS "'UU WMILE SliPPLY OPIIIIOII..UT• •• All·l ,. 
IUIDAY




,.... 

a 
55345 Fir Road, Mllhawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259-1111 One mile north ol US 20 on Fir Rood 
in 1976, and 11 golds. East Ger­many won 25 medals, including nine golds. 
America had the gold of Blair 
and  figure  skater  Brian  
Boitano.  
Calgary, a city  of  some  

650,000 built around the cattle business and oil trade, began the job of returning to normal Monday. The city had staged the longest Winter Games, 16 days that included tempera­ture swings from 5 below to 70 and winds that nearly blew away the jumping events. 
Dozens of events ·were delayed--ski jumping, Alpine 
coach 
sources said it was three years in length. Reed would not dis­cuss his salary. 
Reed returns to the NBA head coaching ranks for the first time in almost 10 years when the Nets play the Clippers on Tuesday night. 
"I'm looking at this as a 28­game season," Reed, 45, said. "We'll be looking to win as many as possible and then take it from there." 

racing, luge and bobsled among them--but when the closing ceremonies were over, so were all the events. And the Games ended on time. 
Calgary, known mostly for its hockey and beef steaks, had come of age, 100 years after its founding on the prairie at the edge of the Rocky Mountains. 
"Calgarians have seen they can host the world in a dig­nified, polite and sophisticated way, and yet be down to earth," Mayor Ralph Klein said. 
The end came none too soon for America. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
This was an embarrassment. Not since 1936, when there were only 17 events compared with 46 here, had America won fewer medals. It walked away from those Games at Garmisch with four medals. Four years ago in Sarajevo, the United States won eight medals, and it equaled its all-time high in 1980 at Lake Placid with 12. 
They were glorious Games in '80 and '84, a celebration for Americans --the hockey team of 1980, the surprisingly strong Alpine team of 1984 with its five medals, including three golds. 
Join The Observer 
Lecture by: 


Arthur Schlesinger 
-one of America's most influential historians and cherished writers -former special assistant to President John F. Kennedy -author of The Age of Jackson, winner of Pulitzer Prize for history 
-author of A Thousand Days: John F. Kenned\f in the White House, winner of Pulitzer Prize for biography 
March 7, 1988 Washington Hall 8:00 pm Tickets $2.00 
Available at The Cellar Feb 29 -March 4 
Sponsored by Student Union Board 

Tuesday, March 1, 1988 The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
MY MOl/TH FCEL5 1/fK()(tffO/UAII(.Y PRY.  Y£/IH. !Jf/T MY :f.W6(Je 15 KfNllA 5T!CKY Feet.IN&... WCKY... XRTA 5TAI?CHY Yll KNOW? I mt/T"S\ II~  NO. MY TlJN6VF; 15 57'1W:HY.  a:JN'T CIIU.. 1161/!N. UT5 1-KJf& >t'fi'Vl" t.el/f?Nf;{l  "THe tE~ ee!N&, I~f?M5E; NdT W /?111/.. 911 Jf/5T RJK HIIVING eATeN AN f/Ntlef?l?ff't: MNANII.  
CIKJKING ~  1/ t£55tJV / iCt/CI;_~:  \  

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 


Movies this week: 
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang 8:00 &. 10:30 p.m. Wed. l!l Thurs.  $2.00  Clockwork Orange 8:00 &. 10:00 p.m. Fri. l!l Sat.  
Cushing Auditorium  Sponsored by SUB  

Tuesday 
12-1 p.m.: Brown bag lunch, Institute for International Peace Studies and Kellogg Institute Lecture, "Current Developments in Columbia," by Penny Lernoux, Latin American correspondent and award-winning writer, Room 131 Decio Hall. 4 p.m.: Lecture by Penny Lernoux, Room 122 Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 5:30p.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Evening of Recollection, Saint Mary's Solitude and Prayer Center. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "The Great Blon­dino," 1967, 41 minutes, directed by Robert Nelson, USA, Annenberg Auditorium. 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Story of a Love Affair," 1950, BW, 102 minutes, directed by Michangelo Antonioni, Italy, Annen­berg Auditorium. 
Impress 
people 

Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead.

Doo't drive drunk. 
Reader's Digest 
Comics 
ACROSS 1 Title of 

respect 5 Comic Lucille 9 Gossip 
13 Director Woody 15 "I cannot 
tell-" 16 Ohio city 17 Pool member 18 Neckwear 19 Genesis name 20 Trickery 22 Algonquian 23 Large eagle 24 Gravelly ridge 26 Dessert 30 Study hard 31 -Domini 32 Ivy League 
university 35 Puts on cargo 39 Descendant t=-+--t--+-­41 Coal weight 42 Nimble 43 Fight 44 Aware of ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved
46 Emerald ­47 Support 49 Chaffer 6 Wonderland 51 Usher's milieu visitor 53 Lacerate 7 Stead 55 Calabria coin 8 -Antilles 56 Effective key 9 Sorcery 
of a kind 10 Cuba ­62 "An ap-11 Moslem prince 
ple-..." 12 Bundle 63 Following 14 Snouts 64 Of ships 21 Quarry 65 Whale 25 Sp. room 66 Construction 26 Catholic 
beam service 67 Tests 27 Fairy tale 68 Belg. river starter 69 Odense native 28 One 70 Part of a 29 Haruspex 
Confederate 30 Penny signature 33 Surmounting 34 Actor Chaney 50 Good-night 55 Having frills 
DOWN 36 Record girl 57 Armadillo 1 Animal food 37 She: Fr. 51 Sidekicks 58 --Coburg­2 Choir voice 38 VIsionary 52 Hot under the Gotha 3 Fish sauce 40 Actor Coward collar 59 Of 4 Walter's 45 Harem rooms 53 Lubbock grandparents 
offering 48 USSR's native 60 "Auntie -" 5 Wand Brezhnev 54 -nous 61 Different 

03/01/88 

..---------------~---~~ -~ --~--------------------~-----­



Sports
page 16 Tuesday, March 1, 1988 
Irish top Warriors, gear for regionals 
By STEVE MEGARGEE he looks like he's in full 
Sports Writer strength," said McCann. "He was able to wrestle a complete 
Notre Dame wrestling coach match." Fran McCann was hoping for McCann also got a strong "an upbeat feeling going into performance from junior co­Regionals." captain Jerry Durso, who im­
That's exactly what he got proved his record to 26-5-1. last Saturday, as the Irish "Jerry wrestled their best trounced Marquette 41-7. With guy in Matt Rohre, who has the road victory, Notre Dame beaten some pretty goood ended its regular season with kids," said McCann, "and a 6-6 record. The Warriors fell Jerry was in complete control to 1-14. of the match."
• 
"Our kids wrestled pretty Durso defeated Rohre 7-1, well," said McCann. "They and 177-pound junior Chris showed a lot of intensity and Geneser pinned Pete pulled together really well." Karpfinger in the second per­
The Irish host the NCAA iod of their match. The pin Western Regionals this upped Geneser's season mark weekend to determine which to 28-4. wrestlers qualify for the NCAA Notre Dame's win gave the Championships. Sophomore Irish a regular season record 118-pounder Andy Raden­right at .500 after two consecu­baugh, who missed last year's tive losing seasons. It also gave post-season with a broken leg, the team a well-needed boost showed against Marquette that of confidence, following two he is a legitimate NCAA con­straight losses to Central Mic­tender this time around. higan and Indiana and heading 
Radenbaugh, coming off an into this weekend's NCAA injury that kept him out of ac­Regionals. tion for a week, recorded a technical fall on Saturday to "It was perfect," said start the rout of the Warriors. McCann. "It was a meet we Radenbaugh's season record is knew we could win and that we 
its winning ways this weekend, 

23-7. could dominate. That's a good The Notre Dame fencing teams are beginning to plan for the NCAA "I was glad to see Andy one to end up on and to end the championships after competing in the Great Lakes Championships 
see FENCERS, page 13

Radenbaugh come back, and season on a positive note." 
over the weekend. Chris Fillio details the action at right. 
Baseball team finds the .9Q,ng. rough in N. Carolina 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Thursday's win represented The Irish almost managed to shortstop Joe Shabosky's wind­in the third inning and trailed Sports Writer the first season-opening win for sweep the Blue Devils. Duke blown grand slam directing the 6-4 after five innings.Notre Dame in eight years. The needed just two innings to take attack. But for the first time all 
The first four games of the Irish blew a 10-3 lead in the a 5-l lead. The Irish rallied to The Irish scored three runs week, the Irish had trouble get­Notre Dame baseball season fourth inning to fall behind 11-tie the score in the seventh in­in the seventh inning and four ting runs, scoring only once last week featured a lot of hit­10 in the fifth inning. ning. runs in the ninth to make the 
after the third inning. The beat ting, as the Irish averaged over A four-run outrburst by Duke scored three runs in its final score 17-10. Hutson wnet went on for Wake Forest, as the eight runs a game. Notre Dame worn the six­half of the seventh and take the 3-for-4 with two home runs and Demon Deacons scored six 
But the teams the Irish faced, inning game for the Irish. "I lead for good. seven runs batted in. Coming more runs to win 12-5. 
Duke and Wake Forest, hit the don't look at it like we blew a "We were every bit as good off a mediocre junior season Notre Dame successfullyball even better, causing Notre lead; I look at it like we won a as Duke," said Murphy. "We (.212 batting average, 21 RBI) adopted Murphy's call for a Dame to leave its season­baseball game," said Murphy. played very well. It went down and a recent two-month more aggressive style of play, opening trip to North Carolina "It showed a lot of character to the wire in both games. If a suspension, Hutson hit .615 with stealing nine bases in 12 at­with a 1-3 record. to make a last-inning surge. It play or two could have gone the 11 RBI in this season's first four tempts.
"I think we're a long way was a great win for Notre other way, we could have won games. "That was the key to our of­from being a good team, said 
Dame baseball to get a win the second game." "When he decides in his mind fense," said Murphy. "We tried first-year Irish coach Pat over an ACC (Atlantic Coast Notre Dame had a more dif­he wants to be a good baseball to stay aggressive. When Murphy, "but I'm still optimis­Conference) opponent.'' ficult task in trying to keep up player, there's no telling what you're behind by five or six tic. I believe in this bunch." Senior first-baseman Tim with Wake Forest. The Demon 
he can do," said Murphy. "He's runs, it's difficult to keep that Notre Dame split a two-game Hutson and sophomore right Deacons, coming off a tough 4-2 got tremendous potential." style, but every chance we had, series with Duke, winning 14-11 fielder Dan Peltier each drove loss to the nationally-ranked 
we'd run." 

on Thursday and losing 9-6 on in three runs on Thur-sday, Miami Hurricanes, went on a The Demons came out hitting Notre Dame allowed over 12 Friday. Wake Forest swept the while senior shortstop Pat hitting derby against the Irish. again in Sunday's game, taking runs a game during the week,Irish 17-10 and 12-5 on Saturday Pesavento went 3-for-4 with a Wake Forest had a 17-3 lead a 6-1 lead after two innings. 

and Sunday. double. 
Holtz names assistants 
Special to The Observer State. Palermo played tight end Notre Dame football head for two years at Wesley Junor 
coach Lou Holtz has filled the College in Delaware before 
vacancies on his staff created transferring to Florida State by recent resignations. Joe 
where he played tight end and 
Palermo, recently an assis­defensive tackle. tant at Minnesota, and Chuck Heater will coach the Irish Heater, late of Ohio State, secondary, replacing Terry both joined Hotlz' staff Mon­Forbes who has resigned to day. pursue other opportunities. 
Palermo will coach the de­Heater spent the last three 
fensive line, replacing Joe seasons coaching the Buck­Yonto, who retired from eyes' secondary after three coaching Feb. 10 but will stay seasons in a similar position in the Notre Dame Athletic at Wisconsin. Department as a special as­Heater is a 1975 graduate of sistant to Athletic Director Michigan where he finished Dick Rosenthal. Palermo as the Wolverines' fifth­coached under Holtz at Min­leading career rusher and nesota. He has also been an was an all-Big Ten selection assistant at Appalachian as a senior. He was a lOth­State, Memphis State, Austin round draft pick of the New Peay and North Carolina Orleans Saints. 
after five innings, with Notre Dame scored three runs 
see MURPHY, page 14 

Women fall to MU, Illinois 
By FRANK PASTOR  matches. There were a lot of  tennis I've ever seen her play,"  
Sports Writer  split  sets  and  tiebreakers.  I  remarked Gelfman.  
don't feel that we should have  Sophomore Alice Lohrer also  
After playing perhaps its finest match of the season in a  lost either of these matches." In singles play, senior cap­ played well in this weekend's competition, even though she  
9-0 drubbing of Furman less  tain Michelle Dasso was par­ dropped both of her matches at  
than two weeks ago, the Notre  ticularly  impressive  in  the  the number two  position.  On  
Dame women's tennis team has suddenly hit the skids. The Irish (5-6) now have lost three straight, including this past  number one position. Freshman phenom CeCe Cahill, who normally plays number one, was sidelined for  Saturday, she was edged by Miami's Sue Brozovich 6-4, 1-6, 3-6, and the following day she battled Illinois' Jessie Daw to  
weekend's setbacks to Miami of Ohio 2-7 and Illinois 1-8.  the weekend with an illness.  the end before falling 6-1, 7-6(7­. 4), 7-6(7-3).  
The  lopsided  scores  are  After dropping the first set  As a result of Cahill's unex­ 
deceiving, however, Irish women were  as the in each  on Saturday, Dasso came back to sweep the last two in defeat­ pected absence, Notre Dame was forced to re-shuffle its  
match until the end, losing many split sets and tiebreak­ ing Miami's Kathleen Boyle 4­6, 6-2, 6-4. Against Illinois, she  doubles pamngs for the weekend's matches. Dasso and  
ers.  defeated Kathy Neill-6, 6-2, 6-3  Lohrer defeated a tandem from  
"The scores were not indica­tive of the way the matches  to procure the team's only mark for the match. Dasso's ef­ Miami 6-4, 7-5 in the first posi­tion. However, the second team  
were played," said Irish coach  fectiveness was not lost on her  of freshman Kim Pacella and  
Michelle  Gelfman.  "It's  not  coach.  
like  they  weren't  close  "Michelle  played  the  best  see TENNIS, page 12  










