----------------c-----------­
What are the odds? 
A 30 percent chance of rain early Thursday morning, then mostly cloudy, windy and colder. Temperatures falling into the lower to middle 40s. 
IACCENT: 'Twelfth Night' 
IVIEWPOINT: The challenge of politics 

~---· -------~--------, 

VOL. XXII, NO. 51 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's , 
Bush hopes to start 'new era' 
Associated Press 
President-elect George Bush, barely pausing to savor his election triumph, began building a "brand new team" for his incoming Republican administration Wednesday. Democrats found solace in gains in both houses of the Congress. 
Bush staged a splashy, flag­waving return to Washington and said he hoped to nourish a "new era rich with possibility and full of hope." He went with Vice President-elect Dan Quayle to the White House to accept President Reagan's congratulations and promise of a smooth transition. 
"Time for us to go to work," said the outgoing president, and the new man did. 
Bush made his first Cabinet appointment with unusual swiftness, naming longtime confidant James Baker III his secretary of state. He ap­pointed a slate of aides to guide the transition to power. 

"The people have spoken and the verdict was clear," the na­tion's duly chosen leader said. 
Bush and Quayle take office on Jan. 20. 
Democrat Michael Dukakis took his final bow on the 1988 campaign stage at a news con­ference in Boston. He congrat­ulated Bush on his victory, but said it was based in large mea­sure on campaign "distor­tions." Nonetheless, he said he was not resentful, but rather disappointed. 
"I gave it my best shot," said the Massachusetts governor. 
On his first full day as president-elect, Bush paused to praise his rival. 
He said he would do his best to work with the new Demo­cratic Congress. "I don't want Sweet taste of victory AP Photo us to talk at each other, I want 
President-elect George Bush and his wife Barbara Houston Tuesday night. See ELECTION, page 7 
wave to the crowd at a victory celebration rally in 
Dukakis congratulates Bush, says 'I gave it my best shot' 
Associated Press At a valedictory campaign this kind of campaigning is ef­
news conference in Boston, fective.'" 
BOSTON--Defeated Demo­Dukakis repeated his charges Dukakis sidestepped a ques­cratic presidential candidate that Republican "media tion about whether he might Michael Dukakis on Wednes­manipulators" resorted to run again for-the White House, day congratulated highly negative commercials saying he was now ready to President-elect George Bush to defeat him and said the ads return to his duties as governor on a "decisive victory" and took their toll. He said he of Massachusetts. "I will ·be said, "I gave it my best shot" feared "this would be a signal digging into that vigorously in a losing cause. now at the national level that and fully," he said. 
Thumbs up 
Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis and his wife Kitty are seen at the podium Tuesday night in 

Boston, as Dukakis conceded the presidential election to Vice President George Bush. 
Dukakis opened his news his presence felt as the party conference with a statement picks a new chairman for the blending congratulations for next four years. Bush with a declaration that the Democratic Party is "truly Dukakis said he wasn't ready 
alive and well and strong." to offer a detailed analysis of the campaign, but noted that 
He made it clear he intends he lost several states by the to remain active in party af­fairs, saying he hoped to make See DUKAKIS, page 7 
World leaders· congratulate Bush 
Associated Press 
LONDON--World leaders congratulated George Bush on his presidential triumph with a series of positive reactions that cut broadly across party and ideological divisions. 
The Soviets said they ex­pected they could work with · Bush. 
European and Japanese leaders looked forward to con­tinuity of U.S. policy set by President Reagan. 
Israel and Egypt welcomed Bush's victory and the Pales­tine Liberation Organization hoped Bush would champion Palestinian aspirations to statehood. 
Nicaraguan and Costa Rican leaders expressed some op­timism, but a pro-government newspaper in Managua chided the Bush win. 
In many countries, local radio and television stations carried results and live broad­casts through the night. 
Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov, asked in a tele­phone interview whether a summit was likely early in the Bush administration, replied: "Yes, it is quite possible in my view--quite possible.'' 
Another Ministry spokes­man, Vadim Perfiliev, told a news briefing in Moscow, "We note with satisfaction that the American electorate express their view with regard to the continuation of arms control negotiations and for exoandin2 cooperation between the U.S.A. and the Soviets in all possible areas.'' 
In China, where Bush had served as U.S. ambassador, the official news agency said the president-elect "boasts a rich experience in public service unmatched by most of ·his predecessors.'' The Foreign Ministry cabled "our warm congratulations" and hoped Bush would help U.S.-Chinese 
See LEADERS, page 7 


page 2 The Observer Thursday, November 10, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF ~ 
Former attorney general John M. Mitchell, who authorized the Watergate break-in and then went to prison for conspiring to cover-up the burglary, died Wednesday evening of a heart attack. He was 75. · Mitchell collapsed on a sidewalk in Georgetown and died at 6:27p.m., said Claudia Dominitz, a spokeswoman for George Washington University Hospital.--Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Juniors interested in paid summer internships with Aetna Life & Casualty should attend an information presentation today at 7 p.m. in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Dress is informal. -The Observer 
BCAC Fashion Show There will be a general meeting today at 9 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall for those interested in trying out for models or MC's. Routines and other specific dates will be discussed. Call Carla Morris at 283-4968 for more information. -The Observer 
Comedy Jam featuring E~ Fiala from t~e _Toni~ht Show will be at Theodore's tomght. Free admission with NDSMC identification. -The Observer 
Effective Resumes Workshop will be held today from 
6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. The workshop is open to students of any major. -The Ob­server 
Faith, the Intellectual Life, and the University sponsors "Vladimir Solovie on Intellectual Fasting and the Con­science of Philosophy" at 7:30p.m. on the 7th floor of the Hesburgh Library. Readings for this discussion are avail­able in 307 LaFortune. -The Observer 
Michael Novak will complete his three part series "Choosing Our King:Monthly Election Watch" with a wrap-up of the presidential election ton~gh~ at 7:30 p.~ in the auditorium of the Center for Contmumg Education. 
-The Observer 
Grace Hall Debates continue today at 9 p.m. in the Pit in Grace Hall. The issue is "The Two-Party System undemocratically limits the freedom of choice for the American public." -The Observer 
Applications for the summer Engineering London Program for Engineering majors are available in 377 or 371 Fitzpatrick Hall. Applications must be returned by Nov. 30. -The Observer 
CT Club sign-ups for the Christmas Bus trip will take place next Monday and Tuesday from 5:30 to 6:30p.m. in the LaFortune Lobby. A deposit is required. The price is approximately $90. Call Kent Weldon at 283-4639 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-Campus Crime Meeting today at 7 p.m. in Logan Center. All off-campus students are welcome to join the South Bend Police in a discussion on solving the crime problem. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. 
Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ............ Annette Rowland Design A11iatont . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Gliwa T~peaellers...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer ........................................... Andy Schlidt News Editor................... Kendra Morrill Copy Editor .................. Christine Walsh Sporll Copy Editor ......... Molly Mahoney Viewpoint CopJI Editor ............ Syl Flood Viewpoint Layout .... Laura Manzi Accent Editor ............. Trisha Chambers Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Accent Designer .......... ~ Michael Conway 
~~:.~~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:i)ia:~a~:::;:;
ND Day Editor...... Margaret McCloskey SMC Doy Editor ............... Maura Reidy Photographer .............. : ....... Mike Zultan 
'At 01111nw (USPS ~99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday acept dllrinl cum aad vacation periods. n.01111nw is published by the students or the Unlvenity or Notre o.-aad Saint Mary's CoiJcac. Sut.cripeions may be purcbu­111 ror 140 1111' yar IU' 1111' ICIDeltcr) by writina 'At Ollllnw, P.O. Boa Q, Notre 
.,._,........,~. 
n. 01111nw 1a • _._ or n. .U•••••• "-·All rcproductioo n,hca ue 
Dirty election comes to 

an end 
It's finally over. 

The dirtiest Presidential election in ages is history. President-elect George Bush will be­come the 41st President of the United States in January, Dan Quayle will become Vice Presi­dent, and Michael Dukakis will return to the Governorship of Massachusetts, which he has been neglecting since the beginning of the cam­paign. 
And what has changed? 
Nothing. 

George Bush, whom I still believe to be the best man for the job (well, at least among those running), has become a near-clone of President Ronald Reagan. Eight years ago Bush proclaimed supply-side economics "voodoo." Now he embraces it wholeheartedly. 
Bush has taken some issue stances which slightly differ from Reagan's. Bush endorses "some alteration" in the $3.35 minimum wage, which Congress wishes to raise by over 75 per­cent. However, this and other differences are minor. 
Congress, too, was changed very little by Tuesday's election. The political make-up of both houses of Congress is not likely to change substantially. The Democrats will still maintain an overwhelming majority in the House of Rep­resentatives and a smaller, yet still decisive, majority in the Senate. 
Speaker of the House Jim Wright will continue to lead Congressional Democrats on a collision course with the Republican White House. Wright is currently under investigation by the (Democratically controlled) Ethics Commit­tee, but it is almost certain that the members of this committee will not bring charges against the leader of their party's Congressional delegation. 
Indeed, the only substantial change likely to take place when the lOlst Congress convenes will be in the Senate. Majority Leader Robert Byrd (D-WV) is stepping down from his lead­ership position. However, the two leading can­didates for his position both are likely to con­tinue with the agenda Byrd established during his tenure. 
The Republican Party has become almost a permanent minority party in Congress. With the many advantages an incumbent holds, it is extremely unlikely that the GOP will be able to gain control of either house for many years. 
The Democrats have had an equally bad time in their recent attempts at the presidency. The Republican candidate has won five of the past six elections. The Democratic Party has had a consistently bad time finding candidates who can win. 

--finally 


Democratic presidential candidates have been plagued with poor campaign organizations and divisiveness within their own party. One only need look at the pre-convention fights be­tween Dukakis and Jesse Jackson to see this is true. 
It seems logical to conclude from this that the United States will be stuck with a split gov­ernment for the rest of the 20th Century. 
The Republicans will continue to keep their lock on the presidency, while the Democrats will hold their majorities in the Congress. 
What this means to Americans is that they can expect more of the bitter fighting between the Congress and the White House and between the two parties when election time rolls around. 
The media has been quick to point out that the election of 1988 was the dirtiest and most issue-less of recent history. 
I'm sorry to say it, but you'd better get used to it. When campaigns are won or lost by 15 second sound-bites on the evening news, the only message the candidates have time to get across are the content-less, issue-less ones to we have become accustomed. Until the means of communication change between the candi­dates and the voters, the messages ofthe can­didates won't change, either. 

~&1&&111&11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~~~~~~~...! 
• 
THE CORINTHIAN TRADING COMPANY 
presents: 
SWEATER SALE 
100°/o Wool-HANDMADE Sweaters Imported from GREECE 
NOVEMBER 7-11 MONDAY -FRIDAY 8:00AM -5:00PM 
LA FORTUNE Student Center Room 108 
•
• 
• 

Large Selection Many Sizes 

Great Presents Student Prices 





-----~-----------~ ----------~~--~~~~------~-----~------~~~------­
Thursday, November 10, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Bayh heads off • Republican sweep 
Associated Press Bayh said he's ready to patch 
things up with the Republicans 
INDIANAPOLIS--Demo-and work together in the cratic Governor-elect Evan legislative session that begins Bayh pledged Wednesday to in Jan. 9. work with Republican legisla­"I think men and women of tive leaders while the GOP pon­good will can work together, dered how to rebuild and who can look to the future instead should succeed newly elected of reliving the past," said Vice President Dan Quayle in Bayh. "I want to be the best the U.S. Senate. governor I can--not just for the 
Bayh brought to an end 20 people who voted for me ... years of Republican control of but for the people who voted for the governor's office with his my opponent as well," he said. victory over GOP Lt. Gov. John With 99 percent of Indiana's Mutz. 4,900 precincts reporting, Bayh 
At the same time, the GOP had 1,124,501 votes, or 53 per­celebrated Quayle's success cent, to 995,012, or 47 percent, with President-elect George for Mutz. Bush, Sen. Richard Lugar's Bayh, who will become the record-breaking victory, con­nation's youngest governor on 
Sitting tight 
tinued control of the Indiana Jan. 9, met with outgoing GOP Senate and victories in the Gov. Robert Orr to plot the President and Mrs. Reagan watch early election House. attorney general and school transition of power. Orr, at 70, returns on the television from home in the White superintendent races. is the nation's second oldest Indiana voters also approved governor. 
Quayle anxious to begin transition a lottery referendum and gave Before he leaves office, Orr a 10-year term to Chief Justice will appoint someone to fill Associated Press ticket of Michael Dukakis and uary so that the Republican Randall Shepard, the target of Quayle's Senate seat. The Lloyd Bentsen. governor, rather than Demo­charges by another Supreme governor gave no indication Quayle, trying to keep a low cratic Gov.-elect Evan Bayh, Court justice in recent weeks. whom he will appoint or when WASHINGTON--Dan Quayle profile with Bush en route back can appoint someone to fill the 
Despite the GOP successes, he will make an announce­commenced his transition to to Washington, visited briefly ·Senate seat. dropping the governor's race ment. ~he vice presidency Wednes­with reporters in the driveway There has been widespread was "a grievous loss in the Among those mentioned as day, promising to "get organ­of his home in suburban speculation that Quayle's wife, statewide organization," ac­possible choices are Mutz; ized" quickly but refusing say McLean, Va. "Am I going to Marilyn, a lawyer and cording to Lugar. former Environmetal Protec­when he will resign his Senate have to do this every day?" he housewife, is among those un­
Lugar said Hoosier tion Agency head William seat._ asked. der consideration to take the Republicans face the dual chal­Ruckelshaus; 4th District U.S. -Quayle said he had no spe­As he arrived at the transi­seat. Among othet: names men­lenge of restoring stability in Rep. Dan Coats; Paul Man­cific timetable for making staff tion office, Quayle said his first tioned in Indiana Republican the party after the Mutz loss nweiler of Indianapolis; In­appointments and said his tour order of business was to "get political circles are Rep. Dan and overcoming the financial diana House Ways and Means of transition headquarters near organized." Asked whether Coats and Indianapolis Mayor drain of the race. The two Chairman Patrick Kiely of An­the White House was aimed at that would be difficult, he said, William Hudnut, and possibly gubernatorial candidates and derson and Marilyn Quayle, the _ "assembling thoughts, con­"A cinch." Lt. Gov. John Mutz, who lost to the two major parties spent as wife of the newly elected vice versing with people, nothing Quayle was being reunited Bayh on Tuesday. much as $8 million on the race, president. specific." · with Bush at an afternoon The Quayles have sought to political experts estimated. Orr's appointee could serve "When we have _specific celebration at Andrews Air minimize speculation that Mrs. 
"We had a good run. We'll until 1990 when a special elec­things, believe me, you'll be the Force Base in Maryland. The Quayle is interested in succeed­just wait four years and try to tion will be held to choose first to know," the senator said, pair was scheduled to meet ing her husband. start another string," said someone to_ finish the a day after he and Vice Presi­later with President Reagan at As she arrived at the steps of state GOP chairman Gordon remainder Quayle's term, dent George Bush catapulted to the White House. the four-story, white-brick Durnil. which expires in 1992. victory over the Democratic Quayle refused to say when townhouse used for the transi­
Something worth studying. 
(t' 

Atlanta  Kansas City  Philadelphia  
Bloomington/Normal  Las Vegas  Phoenix  
Boston  Madison  Pittsburgh  
Champaign/Urbana  Memphis  Rockford, IL  
Chicago (Midway)  Miami  StCroix  
Cleveland  Milwaukee  Sl Petersburg (Eif.12117/88)  
Columbus  MplsJSt Paul  StThomas  
Dallas/Ft Worth  Moline  Sarasota  
Denver  Nassau  Springfield, IL  
Des Moines  New Orleans  Tampa  
Dubuque  New York (LaGuardia)  Traverse City  
Ft Lauderdale  Omaha  Washington, DC (Nationaij  
FlMyers  Orlando  Waterloo  
Green Bay  Oshkosh (Eif.10/30t88)  West Palm Beach  
Jacksonville  Peoria  

Physics equations and Freudian principles are nice, but if you really want to get somewhere, call Midway Airlines~ 
Midway can take you home or on vacation on an inexpensive and convenient flight. Just hop the Midway Connection® to Chicago Midway Airport and connect to over 50 U.S. cities, plusthe Bahamas and Virgin Islands. 
So study the above information. Then call Midway at 1-800-621-5700, or call a travel agent. 



Dave D'Angers, 
• 
little-known god of fertility, 
turns 21 today! ••
•
Chicks, Beware! •• • 

he would officially notify In­diana Gov. Robert Orr of his resignation from the Senate~ 
He has signaled several times in recent days that he would submit his resignation before Orr's term ends in Jan­tion headquarters, Mrs. Quayle was asked if she was interested in the seat. 
"You'll have to ask the governor,"she replied. "That's an answer I'Ii give him. You'II be the second to know." 

'-..................................................................~--·················································· 
--------------------------------------------" 

ME TALK T THE BET IN THE B INE 



WE'LL TELL YOU ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND SUMMER INTERNSHIPS WITH ONE. OF THE 
WORLD'S LARGEST FINANCIAL SERVICES ORGANIZATIONS . 


Thursday, November 10 7:00PM Alumni Room of Morris Inn 
Refreshments will be served 
------~------~~~· 
Thursday, November 10, 1988 The Observer page 5 

Kelly made new director of Alcohol and Drug office 
By SEAN HICKEY Carolyn Kelly and with the ef­Staff Reporter forts and energy of the other people at the University in this The Office of Student Mfairs area, the work of the Office of has appointed a new director Alcohol and Drug Education of alcohol and drug education, will move to heighten aware­filling the spot left vacant since ness and help students make the summer. choices for healthy living," said Ann Firth, director of 
Carolyn Kelly, former exec­residence life. utive director of St. Joseph "Carolyn Kelly possesses County's Mental Health Asso­outstanding administrative ciation, was chosen to fill the ability," Firth said. "She has office left empty since David much experience with starting Dannison's resignation before programs and knows how to this school year. work with people and motivate 
"Under the direction of them toward goals." 
Crime of the Week 
Kelly, whose two sons graduated from the University in 1985 and 1987, said she is op­timistic about her job. 
"I'm very optimistic because Notre Dame enjoys a very bright student body that· cares a lot about each other," she said, adding that the alcohol issue is a serious national issue, warranting attention from even presidential platforms. 
· "Nationally, university stu­dents are turning to alcohol more consistently than is in their best interest--both in the short run and in the long run," Kelly said. 
"Students should know about the physiological effects. No one wants to see patterns develop that stand in the way of students realizing their po­tential in the long term," she said. 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education was formed in February, 1988, with funds from a Department of Educa­tion grant. Grant investigators were Firtlt, Sally Coleman of 

The Notre Dam&Saint Mary's Collegiate Choir performed its fall concert Wednesday night under the direction of Nancy Menk, at the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
SMC Board offended by photograph 
By MARYBETH BLAJDA  The picture, which ran in the  the latter part of the 19th ~en­ 
News Staff  Mon., Nov. 7 issue of the Ob­ tury and the beginning· of the  
server, showed three  men  in  20th century, according to An­ 
Saint Mary's Board of Gover­ the Sorin talent show dressed  toinette Brock, president of the  

the University Counseling Cen­ter and Christine Conway;-staff psychologist at the University Counseling Center. 
"I see the role of the office to marshal resources as well as initiate ideas from the tre­mendous creativity of the stu­dents, faculty and staff," Kelly said, adding the role is also to "marshal to the whole Notre Dame community the goal of 
heightening  awareness  and  
challenging  students  to  find  
positive  solutions  to  life  
stresses."  

The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

The Crime of the Week is the assault of a Dillon Hall resident on the night of Oct. 22, 1988 after the Air Force football game. 
At about 8:45p.m., as the vic­tim passed two male subjects and a female in the first floor hallway, one subject asked what the victim said to the female. The subject then struck the victim in the face. The second subject struck the victim twice in the face, break­ing the victim's cheek bone. The three then fled on foot from Dillon Hall. 
The first suspect is described as a male black, 19-20 years old, 6', stocky build, short hair, and wearing a gray sweat shirt. 
cribed as a male black, approx­imately 19-20 years old, 5'10", medium build, short hair, wearing a dark gray sweat­shirt. The woman who accom­panied the suspects was des­cribed as a female black, 5'2", medium build, 19-20 years old. 
Crime Stoppers wants to know who assaulted the student and will pay a cash reward up to $300 for information leading to the apprehension of these as­sailants. 
If you have information about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stop­pers at 288-STOP, you don't have to give your name and you'll be eligible for a cash 
The second is des-reward. 



Copies 


kinko·s·

after five the copy center 
When you need copies afier 18187 Stale Road 23 hour~. depend on Kinko's, the 
271-G398

copy center. We're open late to seJVe you. 

JKAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAOONAL aNTER LTD. 
-IMPORTANT NOTICE­( Good News!!) 
nance opened the meeting Wed­as the Fat Boys, complete with 
nesday night with a discussion "black face." 
of a photogragh which ap­The significance of "black­
peared on the front page of the faced" minstrels as a form of 
Observer. entertainment occurred during 

An MBA degree from Ohio State
What 

can bring you greater opportunities, income, and career challenges. Our
Can An nationally recognized MBA program offers merit-based tlnancial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both
MBA 

business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have
Degree gone on to jobs with established leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For
Do For 

a free brochure about our programs, please write or call:
You? 
Student Organization for the Needs of Diversification. 
These minstrels were white entertainers who painted their faces black and mimicked black music, mannerisms and heritage, Brock explained. 
The entertainment was a mockery--not a tribute to the Mrican-American culture, she said. 
Both Brock and Christy Wolfe, vice president for aca­demic affairs at Saint Mary's, are actively involved in the Diversification Task Force and brought this issue to the board's attention. 
"We feel this (photograph) didn't belong on the front page of the Observer. It's degrading and offends members of the Mrican-American college community" said Brock. 
"We have to be a little more 

A second LSAT prep course for the 10/1/88 test will be starting at the Kaplan Center immediately. If you were unable to enroll or if you are a transfer from another Kaplan Center and were not able to get a seat in Class I, please call the South Bend Kaplan Center right away for class dates and times. You will have the same instructor. Please do not delay if you want a seat in Class II. We regret any inconvenienc~ caused due to increased demand for our LSA T prep course for the 10/1/88 test. 
Kaplan Educational Center 1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University
T · H · E 

112 Hagerty Hall
OHIO 

1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399
SfA1E 
UNIVERSITY 

614-292-8511 

GEORGETOWN LAW CENTER 
Will Be Meeting With Students on 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1:30 and 2:15 
Sign up in the Career Placement Office 
sensitive to the issues and make more people aware of this oversight," added Wolfe. . "By placing that particular picture in the Observer, the Ob­server staff didn't realize the impact it could have on the Mrican-American communi­
ty." 
The board voted to sign their 
names to a letter addressing 
this issue which will be sent to 
Chris Murphy, editor-in-chief 
of the Observer. 
, In other business, questions 
were raised regarding stu­
dents' use of campus cars. In 
the past, some students have 
abused the use of campus cars 
supposedly for class or college 
business only, said Student 
Body President Julie Parrish. 
Parrish encouraged students 
to combine efforts with their 
professors and write a proposal 
so that campus cars are avail­
able to those students needing 
transportation for class assign­
ments, she said. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

page 6 The Observer 
Lottery wins by large margin 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--The win­ning numbers for the Indiana lottery were 62-38 --the margin by which voters approved an amendment to change the state's constitution to legalize gambling. 
The totals were 1,051,586 for and 640,253 against, and the proposition lost in only five counties: Adams, Elkhart, Huntington, Kosciusko and Wabash. 
But anti-lottery leaders said Wednesday that despite the strong voter mandate, they would continue their fight before the state legislature, which must approve funding. 
"It certainly doesn't mean the fight is over," said James Steele, communications direc­tor of the United Methodist Church and a member of the executive committee of the In­diana Council of Churches. 
"The Indiana council will be working hand in glove to lobby the legislature to block setting up the machinery for legalized gambling," said Steele. 
He said church groups would unite with Indiana Citizens Against Legalized Gambling. 
1'0ur defeat was caused by lotto mania sweeping all over the country," said Paul Oakes, chairman of ICALG. "We do have a chance to block it be­cause of what happened in Mis­souri ... We hope we can in­fluence the legislature to prevent it." 
Oakes said it's possible the state could have paramutuel betting, but no lottery. 
But while Steele and Oakes pointed to Missouri, there are no plans to dismantle the lot­tery there. Voters in August lifted spending restrictions that once limited how much could be spent on Missouri Lot­tery prizes and administrative costs. 
There were never any plans to dismantle Missouri's games, although many lawmakers and lottery officials predicted the lottery would die if those re­strictions were not removed. 
B-1 Bs grounded for safety checks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The Air Force on Wednesday grounded the nation's fleet of B-lB long­range bombers for a precau­tionary safety inspection fol­lowing a crash of one of the new planes in Texas. 
·The Strategic Air Command, which is responsible for land­based nuclear bomber and mis­sile forces, said the order to suspend flying was a "normal precaution" in the wake of a major accident. 
The flight suspension order will be followed within the next day or two by specific instruc­
tions  to  B-1B  mechanics  on  
what  aircraft  systems  they  
must  inspect,  said  Lt.  Col.  

George Peck, a spokesman at SAC headquarters in Omaha, Neb. 
Those instructions will prob­ably reflect the suspicions of the official board of inquiry 

r 
r r 
r 
r 
~ 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10 -8PM. O'UUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $7 50. $6 50. $5.50 AVAILABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE TO CHAAI')E BY PHONE 284-4626 V;SA MASTERCARD ACCEPTED 
. i!f

Samt Mary's College 
:--JOTR E OA.\1 E IN DIANA 
that is investigating Tuesday's crash of a B-lB near Dyess Air Force Base, Texas. 
Peck said he did not know which systems would be checked and would not spec­ulate on the cause of the crash. 
"But the inspection is ex­pected to require two to four hours per aircraft," he said. "This is a one-time special in­spection." 
Witnesses to Tuesday's crash have said they saw smoke and fire trailing an engine on the plane. 
Thursday, November 10, 1988 
~-~ .. 

In the eye of the beholder 

A group of students and a few professors from the art department observe and critique artwork at the portfolio review for art majors, Wednesday. 
0978 
....3112_ ~OOb 
. . UUJ'~_JitUOL.IN& ·~~,.. ® 

The American Express'" Card can play a starring role virtually an)'Where you shop, from Thlsa to Thailand. Whether you're buying a 1\' or aT-shirt. So during college and after. it's the perfect way to pay for just about eve!]1hing you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Expres's Card right now Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without It~M 
11:0 • SERVICES 

Thursday, November 10, 1988 The Observer page 7 President P.W. Botha of 
South Mrica cabled Bush his
Leaders 
hopes that U.S.-South Mrican
continued from page 1 
relations would be relations develop "in a stable "strengthened on the basis of and healthy manner." mutual respect and under­
Prime Minister Margaret standing." Thatcher of Britain, senior stateswoman of the Western al­Philippine President liance, stayed up all night Corazon Aquino said she hopedwatching results on television Bush's leadership "will set upand pledged her country's another milestone" in U.S.­"staunch support" for Bush. Philippines relations. 
French Foreign Minister Roland Dumas said his Foreign Minister Shimon socialist government sent con­Peres of Israel said he ex­gratulations, and he told pected Bush to launch a new French radio that Bush. "is Mideast peace initiative, while serious, a hard worker with a Prime Minister Yitzhak lot of experience in foreign af­Shamir was said by a spokes­fairs. He's very attentive to man to be "confident and hope­Europe and has a good relation­ful that the excellent ties with ship with President (Francois) the United States will continue Mitterrand." as they are now." 
• OooH-8,, : •• ;.
•
•
•
vl:t •
• 
AP Photo

WE Meet President Bush 
•

LOVE • Mu~covites read a biography of President-elect Wednesday. The headline, in Russian, reads "The •• George Bush posted outside the U.S. embassy on New President." 
YOU! slightly larger than the past Florida Atlantic coast. two years. In addition to Baker, Bush 
t-\1\pp'l • Election With a close Florida race still named Chief of Staff Craig Ful­•• continued from page 1 undecided, Democrats could ler and pollster and Senior •• count on at least 55 seats in the _campaign Adviser Bob Teeter
• us to talk to each other," he new Senate, a gain of at least as co-directors of the transi­BIRTHDAY! ••• said. Democrats hold sway in one. tion.
• both houses of the new They strengthened their Bush discussed few specifics 
and by margins command of the House. on policy matters in a 30­Democrats had at least 259 minute question and answer seats--a gain of two from the session with reporters in old lOOth Congress, with three Texas, although he said he races still to be decided. would be "holding the line" on 
Nearly complete totals taxes. showed Bush receiving 54 per­cent of the popular vote to 46 He also said Quayle would en­percent for Dukakis, with the joy the same "access to the vice president winning by a papers, access to -the intelli­margin of nearly 7 million bal­gence, access to the informa­lots. Bush won 40 states and 426 tion" that Bush has had in the electoral votes; his rival won No. 2slot. Bush did not cite spe­10 states and the District of Co­cific duties for Quayle, but said ~
,

lumbia, for 112 electoral votes. his vice president would meet · ,Bush moved speedily to place regularly with him. ,his stamp on the government ,before flying home toWashing­Democratic Vice presiden­1 ton aboard Air Force Two. On tial candidate Lloyd Bentsen 1
,

Thursday he begins a long flew back to Washington from weekend of fishing on the Texas. 
Dukakis was asked several



Dukakis 
times about the negative com­

continued from page 1 
mercials aired by Bush, and relatively small margin of four about the president-elect's percentage points or less. decision to name the architect 
"I wasn't successful in get­of his campaign, James Baker ting my message through in the III, to be the new secretary of South and some parts of the state. West," he said. But he quickly
:························· ~····························: 
noted· that voters in those "I believe in the redemption regions continue to elect of souls," he said.
. ~· ~ .
Democrats to local office, and ''
i . ~ee;. ! 
said Democratic presidential Dukakis held his news con­=1-: candidates need to find a way ference after spending the mor­
: Friday: : 
to appeal to those regions. ning in his statehouse office,.--. "I gave it my best shot. We calling successful 
had our good days and our not­congressional candidates to so-good days," he said. congratulate them.
i lffi{]~ @j~~ i 
i one of the HOTIEST campus dance bands! ! 
---~~·•••......•••• ! Don't miss it!! beginning 9:00 p.m. i 
• COACH'S • • Accepting applications for! Saturday: i cooks, busers, kitchen help. 
Benefits include PAID vacations.
! Campus D.J.s play great new music i i ordered at your request! ! 
PART TIME 8-20 hrsAvk.
•
• • FULL TIME 40 hrsAvk. 
: Closed Sunday ! + 
2046 South Bend Ave.
:: !=•t 2_77-7678 
! Don't forget to check out Ted's Hideaway i l.
:...........................................................•........•., ................ 


Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, November 10, 1988 
P.O. Box Q 
Slovenly language threatens the state 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Evan Smyth's letter of Nov. 4 attempting to explain what is "rotten" in the current "state" of the U.S., I would suggest that Mr. Smyth's own letter reveals the biggest threat to democracy: Americans' growing in­ability to think and to articulate their thoughts and beliefs simply, clearly, and directly. 
George Orwell, whom Smyth himself cites, explained the danger quite clearly and succinctly in his 1946 essay, "Politics and the English Language:" "The present political chaos is con­nected with the decay of language. The English language becomes ugly and in­accurate because our thoughts are foolish, but the slovenliness of our lan­guage makes it easier to have foolish thoughts." 
I find my students' growing un­familiarity With the meamngs and nuances of their own language far more frightening than all the political rheto­ric to which we have been subjected in 
the past months. 
Clearly today's students (as evidenced as well by Smyth's own ram­bling and disorganized letter) , are in­creasingly unable to speak their mind clearly and effectively because they do not have a firm grasp on their own lan­guage. Further, this difficulty in ma­nipulating their own language makes them increasingly unwilling to invest the serious effort required in thinking for themselves, "Why bother with dis­cussion?" a Notre Dame freshman asked me recently. "You're the teacher--you should just tell me what I need to know." 
Such a passive attitude toward learn­ing, coupled with the growing abuse of and riis-ease with the English language itsel · constitutes the major and most insidious threat to the democratic process. There are any number of countries in which the above-mentioned student could live where the govern­ment hires and trains teachers to do just what that student wished: to tell its citizens exactly what they are sup­posed to think --but such countries are not generally considered democracies. As Orwell notes, however, once the cause of such a decline is recognized, the solution is easily achieved: "If one gets rid of these (bad and lazy) habits (in written English), one can think more clearly, and to think clearly is a necessary first step towards political regeneration.'' 
Thus the challenge for all of us, es­pecially while we are still students, is to embrace the opportunity to learn what we think--to formulate our own beliefs and then to articulate those beliefs clearly and succinctly. Indeed, in a democracy, the commitment to such a challenge is our primary duty as citizens. As one of my writing teach­ers told me: "Just say what you know, know what you mean, and mean what you say." 
Susan A. Barton 
Off-campus 
Nov. 4, 1988 

Snowball fight just random vandalism 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is addressed to the small group of Notre Dame students who felt compelled to test their strength by tos­sing snowballs through hundreds of windows around campus on Sunday night. 
I thought that all you folks should know that each broken window will cost about ten dollars to repair. That ten dollars multiplied by the hundred or so windows will create an unnecessary ex­pense for the University that will un­doubtedly run into the thousands of dol­lars. I wonder how a group of students who pride themselves on their social awareness could commit such sense­less acts of destruction. The Notre Dame student body should have more common sense than to take part in such childish acts of vandalism. 
If students choose to take part in a good natured snowball fight, that is their prerogative. However, when the event degenerates into a pointless as­sault on University property, it is time to step back and evaluate the activity. 
I would ask each and every person who smashed a window on Sunday night to reflect on their actions. I would ask them to think about what could have been done with the ten dollars that they senselessly wasted. And finally, I would ask them to take ten dollars out of their own pocket and contribute it to some group who will put it to constructive use. The vandalism of Sunday night is not in keeping with the Notre Dame phi­losophy of making the most of our re­sources. There is too much deprivation in the world to commit these senseless acts of waste. 
Hopefully those persons who took part in the vandalism will reflect on their actions, and, if faced with a similar situation in the future, they will act with greater maturity and foret­hought. 
Bill Kelly Assistant Rector Dillon Hall Nov. 9, 1988 
Logan clients appreciate tickets 
Dear Editor: 

As co-presidents of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded, we would like to thank the hundreds of students, faculty, and staff members who donated their Rice game tickets last week. Because of your dona­tions, a record number of Logan Center clients were given the opportunity to see a Notre Dame football game in per­son. Despite the weather, all of the clients insisted upon staying for the whole game to cheer the Irish on to victory. 
To show our great appreciation to all of you, we would like to extend an in­vitation to this week's Saturday Recreation Period at Logan Center from 9-11:30 a.m. Please stop by at any time to give our clients a chance to per­sonally thank you for your generosity, and to show you that the enjoyment you've given them is worth many times the ticket price. Thanks again. 
Jim Mohan Karen Maier Co-Presidents Notre Dame/St. Mary's Council for the Retarded Nov. 8, 1988 
Grad students pinned as cynics 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to respond to the View­point column of Nov. 7 by Mr. Kevin Smant that described the "typical" Notre Dame graduate student. Being a graduate student myself and knowing many other grad students, I find his description both offensive and untrue. I have met many students who not only show concern about social, political, 
Ga Trudeau 
lA/HAT SORT OF MAN 15 THF3 NWPR£51fJ8.1T-131.ECT f a/8 A5KJ3l) IJI5TINGU15HW
j THINI<-TANKI5T J.S. HAV/31, .., 
and environmental problems, but work to try to change them as well. 
In my area of Civil Engineering, many of us study environmental issues and work towards their solutions. Also, we have a new program that works on the environmental problems in devel­oping nations. As for myself, I have worked extensively with the homeless (and can therefore attest that they do exist) as well as being involved with human rights issues with Amnesty In­ternational. I am also proud to say that I was involved in the successful cam­paign to get my undergraduate institu­tion to divest its interests in South Mrica. 
Another point of Mr. Smant's article that bothered me was when he implied that the "typical" grad student was cynical or "wears cynicism on his sleeve." I do not find this to be true among grad students I know. Although many of us do make political state­ments, we are at least well informed about the issues we are addressing. 
Finally, I question the implication that graduate students are materialis­tic. If graduate students were so inter­ested in these things, we would not have come back to school at all. Many graduates are married with young families to support and have given up a lot to be here. Most of us could be making a lot more money and have a lot more free time if we had a tradi­tional job. 
In short, I both resent these generalizations about graduate stu­dents and challenge Mr. Smant to prove his claims with substantial evidence. If this cannot be done, I would like to cau­tion him, and others, from making such broad derogatory generalizations about a group of people ·as diverse as the graduate students of Notre Dame. 
Elizabeth Martin 
Off-campus 
Nov. 9, 1988 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reaching print. 
~--------------------------__J 
Quote of the Day 
"When one is someone, why should one want to be something?" 
Gustave Flaubert 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ............................ John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ........... ..... Molly Killen Advertising Manager........ . ...... Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager ...................... Bernadene Shilts Systems Manager . . . . . . . . . ............ Mark Ridgeway Controller........ . ........ . ............... Todd Hardiman · Graphic Arts Manager.. . .................... Marga Bruns 


The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Viewpoint Editor . .............................. Man Slaughter Sports Editor. . ........... Marty Strasen Accent Editor.................. . ................. Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor .............. .......... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor .................................... Michael Moran 

opinions on campus. through letters. i8 encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
~ ---------~~-------------­
Accent
Thursday, November 10, 1988 paqe 9 
Modern twist to Shakespeare brightens 'Twelfth Night' 
PATTY O'NEIL accent writer 
I
f New Year's Eve parties were as bizarre as "Twelfth Night," more people would settle for Dick Clark, Times Square and a cozy couch. 
Notre Dame's Department of Communication and Theatre offered its rendition of Shakespeare's bawdy com­edy last night to a very recep­tive audience. Traditionally portrayed in an early 17th Century setting, director Mark Pilkinton introduced an innovative twist. This version of "Twelfth Night" is set in ''a Christmas costume party 

man show after he left Broad­way to perform in Hollywood. Einstein's life and speaking to "I decided I wanted to do those who knew Einstein best, something that shows my tal­including his eldest son, "I ent in another light other than found out that he was a fine what I had been cast for," humorist," said Metzger. said Metzger. "I had to break Metzger first appeared as away from the casting mold Einstein in 1978. of always being a tough guy The show is filled with or a gangster in movies and humor that stems from television." Einstein's character. For ex­
In the course of investigat­ample, after Einstein won the ing the details surrounding Nobel Prize, he was treated 
Calvin and Hobbes 
somewhere in the United States." 
Confused identity, the key element of humor in this play, allows the characters much room to play. Since slapstick is not easy to do, the actors' performances in this comedy are skillfully accom­

.. 
~ 

The Observeli"Jennifer O'Donald 
(From left to right) Sir Andrew Aquecheek (Joseph Keller),. Sir Tony Belch (Tony Lawton), and Clown (Joseph Medel) contribute to the fun of New Year's Eve in the performance of Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night." 
Metzger exposes the other side of Einstein 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor 
W
hen people hear the name Albert Einstein, they usually think of Einstein the scientist or Einstein the genius. But how many people think of Einstein the practical bohemian? · 
Actor Ed Metzger brings out the lighter side of Albert Einstein in a one-man show at 8 p.m. tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. "Einstein: The Practical Bohemian" explores the per­sonal side of the man. Metzger takes a humorous look at the Nobel Prize win­ner, emphasizing fatherhood over physics and wit over weapons. 
Metzger developed his one­


to a ticker-tape parade in 
Manhattan where thousands 
. of people cheered him as his limousine rode by. "He was so amazed and so stunned," said Metzger. "He turned to Jimmy Walker and said, 'I never thought so many people understood the theory of relativity."' Another important source of humor was Einstein's 
Bill Watterson 
'tl\-\'{ GET AN. 
LikE T\-\E &:lOK 

ULCER OVER \11\tt;S 
RE~RT ~0\J'RE TI1P..I OC:N~ REAI.L'{ 
S\JPPO'SED 1tl BE 
MA-m:R.? 
WRI\lNG-mv.l Ot\ 1\\E 'ib:)l( ~C\l l-11>-~H\1 R.Et>.O ~ 

plished through obvious hard work. 
The play opens with Orsino, Duke of Illyria, portrayed by Tim Deenihan. Orsino declares his love for Countess Olivia (Kathryn Schimmel), alone with his attendants. Olivia, however, decides to bestow her love on Orsino's servant Cesario (Roberta Dvorak), who is definitely one of the play's highlights. The catch is that Cesario is actu­ally Viola, a girl in disguise. So begins the confusion. 
Olivia's household produces the most interesting charac­ters. Sir Toby Belch and Sir Andrew Aguecheek,. hilariously played by Tony Lawton and Joseph Keller, drunkenly stagger about most of the comedy, playing tricks on everyone else or perform­ing lecherous ditties with each other. Their female cohort, Maria, was portrayed by Nancy O'Connor, who generously endowed her role with much zeal. 
One of their victims, Mal­volio, is performed admirably 
Einstein: The Practical Bohemian." 
home life. "He was more in­terested in how God created the universe than whether or not his sons needed ·diaper­ing," said Metzger. 
"It almost is a situation comedy because we are laughing at this man we all respect and know ... he's an average man," he said. "There's a lot of humorous thought in that. We can asso­ciate with that; we can't as­sociate with the Nobel Prize." 
Although Einstein spent a lot of time contemplating the universe, he was also very practical. "He would never memorize history dates, never memorize a map, and he refused to memorize multi­plication tables because they were in the textbook," said Metzger. 
Einstein's practicality was also reflected in his dress. "He was always a very poor dresser," said Metzger. "His exact words were, 'Long hair minimizes the need for a bar­ber, and when you wear by Nick Simon, who runs the gamut of emotions throughout the play. 
Although all the characters have humorous parts, Olivia's jester, played by Joseph Medel, has the most opportu­nity for natural comedy. Whenever Medel performed, especially with Lawton and Keller, the audience had a ball. 
Accompanying the perfor­mance, pianist Matthew Grayson and flutist Laura 
· LaVelle, provided simple, humorous themes at appro­priate moments. Much of the play's anachronistic style is developed by the music, which includes the "Rocky" theme as well as the "Jeopardy" tune. 
Over all, "Twelfth Night" was an entertaining, at times uproarious, comedy that should be commended not only for the performances, but for Pilkinton's innovative theme. 
attire, Metzger bears a close resemblance to Einstein. "I found that I look close to the man without the extensive makeup," he said. 
Touring as Einstein has made Metzger somewhat of an authority on Einstein the man. After one performance for a group of distinguished scientists, Metzger answered their questions about Einstein. "They wanted to know about the man's sex life." 
"Einstein: The Practical Bohemian" answers many of the personal questions that people have about Einstein, who was referred to as the "Jewish cosmic comedian" by his family. According to Metzger, the performance will give the audience a feel for "the humor of the man and the humanity of the man." 
"He was a very special human being in this world," said Metzger. "Therefore, a man like Einstein who had a 

shoes, socks can be done great sense of morality is onf without. They only produce a pedestal (and) does stand IJC:l~.Ll...-...Js::::.____.:::.•D·:.:.:•o:.........J holes."' Dressed in shabby out among the others." 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, November 10, 1988 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
I 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $1100-2000 mo. PLEASE! I NEED TWO PENN STATE FOR SALE: USC TRIP TIXI BEST OF­24 hour Student LDung is OPENIll Lo­Summer, Yr.round,AJI Countrtea, All STUD OR GA'S.S$$f CALL COLLEEN FER! CALL MISSY 284-4381 cated in the OaK Room South Dining
NOTICES PERSONALS
flelda. FIM Info. Wrha IJC, PO Bx 52· x2882. Thankal HaitiII IN04-Corone Del Mar, CA 112625 HEY-IF YOU WERE AT HASBROOK'S TYPING AVAILABLE N.D. CANDY AND ROONEY'S TOWNHOUSE FOR
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. CALL
287-co82 Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White THE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION ON
JO 264-4337 ASAP FREDDY JONES BANDTaHy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check 11.5 (SATURDAY) AND YOU KNOW FREDDY JONES BAND to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 WHO SWIPED OUR REMOTE CON­
NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR
FOR SALE 

FREDDY JONES BAND PENN ST. PLEASE CALL MB 284-5012 
Man ''Schmeal'' Gallagher for VP S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741-TROL FOR THE T.V., CALL US AT 277­FREDDY JONE BAND at Bridgets
1338. n60 OR WE'LL NEVER HAVE THE Thuot=ri nrte come,DRINK,Iisten, JUSTSAME CROWD OVER AGAIN. IF YOU 
TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALE! TWO I need penn state tickets. call at 277­COME! SEE FREDDY LIVE!
ff you need a ride to Columbus this $$$$$ HAD A LOT OF FUN LIKE WE DID,
PRINCE SPECTRUMS PRE-STRUNG 6224. FOR $140 -NICK# 1423
weeken<H:all X42051 PENN STATE TIX WANTED PLEASE HELP US OUT OR WE'LL ................................... GA OR STUD TIX LOSE THE SHIRTS OFF OF OUR Daedalus, who are you? Please reply
Hello. I need Penn State GAs. Call 3488.
ACADEIIIICtiUSINESS TYPING CALL 234-1046 .... ien. BACKS TRYING TO GET ANOTHER
CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S Goodbye.237-1114!1 ONE .... CALL US.
SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER Cincinnati anyone? Need ride lor break.
$100.007 CALL FOR FACTS TODAY. I'M HAVING A BIG SIBS WEEKEND, SO Will pay $$$. Call Jen II 2550
hi ag.' IF YOU DIDNT APPRECIATE THE602-837-3401. EXT. 881. I NEED PENN STATE TIX BILL X4640
Ride offered to Ann Arbor this Friday, OUTBURST DIRECTED AT OUR NA­returning Saturday at 6 p.m. Call 272-WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? TION'S VICE-PRESIDENT WHEN HE RIDE NEEDED TO BOSTON lor Thanks­
BBO­I need 2 USC tickets Please help me out
7690 or 2804. WHAT DO THEY DO? giving. leaving 11/18 or later. wills hare.
CAME TO SPEAK TO US, CALL THAT 

STON"BOSTON"BOSTON"BOSTON rt you have any. Call Bob at x3647. 
call maureen 3948 or kate 360 7 

COME SEE... EXPO ROMA'BB WEASIL Y LITTLE LIBERAL NAMED TypingoWord ProceSSing JEFF AT ANY TIME DAY OR For sale: round trip plane tickets from 
Chicago to Boston for Thanksgiv­I NEED TICKETSIII!III PENN STATE
277-5014 "EFFECTIVE RESUMES" NIGHT TO LET HIM KNOW. THANK
ing.Piease call Beth x3705 GA'SIIIIII PLEASE !II CALL THERESA AT PRESENTED BY KITTY ARNOLD OF YOU.
X4189!$$$$ 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
1960 Granada air, FWAM, $1,000 2n-........................................... 
VICES, TONIGHT, 6:30 P.M. IN THE usc
8752, aHer 5 PM. GA'SI GA'SI GA'SI I NEED PENN PACKAGEFREE DRINKS-GRAB OUR COUPONS 
STATE TIXS! CALL MONICA AT 4189! 
FOR

I LOST/FOUND I FOR SALE: A HEWLETT-PACKARD $$$$$$ IN FRIDAYS PAPER AND GRAB SOME 
JACC FROM HPM SALE
28S CALCULATOR BRAND NEW! "DRINKS" FROM UNIV. PIZZA 2n-8689 
$400 or BEST OFFER.Muat sell to girl. LDst: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES on the 
GOOD PRICE 263-4364 YOU WANT TO SELL ME YOUR PENN Call Erin at. 264-4310.
KaT K a II

way from Washington to North dining In GA'SJ CALL HEIDI AT 3860 FOR$$$$$ (That's you, Quirk!)
peach case, glasses dark green (almost '85 hobie cat 16 NOTRE DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE Texas daughter desperately needs !­
wtrailer,many extras call 1868 Wanted to wish you luck in Ieday's
black) Please let me know I found them! Mom will destroy me unless I buy a Penn STUDENT CENTER ALL STUDENTS 
shirts, any sayings. Xmas giHs. Thanks Carrie X2724 
State ga lor her.Andrew 4259. WELCOME. and all your swim meets! 
call 259-1216.

for sale: 1 plane tix:SB to Newark 11122-Just remember everything I've taught you 
11!28-1'11 sell at cost call II 2898 or 268-I A PENN
LOST: Jean jacket with grey collar. Last NEED STUDENT STATE "EFFECTIVE RESUMES" and you'll do great! Avoid the rush--Hate Bush now Ill
9402 GOODLUCKII
seen in Senoor Bar Coat Room on Fri. TICKET Please call Babs x2728 PRESENTED BY KITTY ARNOLD OF 
night. II found,call Erik at 1208. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­To JACK: We learn the most from The
NPenn State GA's in a BIG WAYII Call VICES, TONIGHT, 6:30 P.M., IN THE 
Fools Thanks, 7123SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 

LOST: BLUE BOOKBAG ON MONDAY, Molly X1321. NOTRE DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE 11-7 AT BOOKSTORE (POSSIBLY STUDENT CENTER ALL STUDENTS 
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 
TICKETS 
WANTED: RIDE TO I.U. THIS 

TAKEN BY MISTAKE). PLEASE CALL PLEASE HELP ME!II I need 6 PENN WELCOME. ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
WEEKEND WILL HELP WITH GAS JIM x3559. 
STATE student tix or GA's Please call MONDAY,NOV14 PLEASE CALL RITA AT 2266
NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE Teek at 288-9303 anytime. bafore long a lemale student will ba se­FOOD SPECIALS Losr··~·s:rOLeN·:··eu~~-b~~k··p~~-k··;;~~ CALL SHEILA--271-9365 lected to represent ND at thhe bowl OPEN 8:30-12:30 South Dining Hall on Tues. Nov. 8. The I NEED GOOD PENNST. GA--WILL PAY game. let's not embarrass ND again. let's 
TO JEFF AND ALL THE OTHER BLEED­

name MATT AYERS was clearly on the we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would ba $$$ MATT 4521 pick someone with a little class who really nice. we'll pay a Fischer swim like a fish in your triathlon I 
ING back peck label. ff found, call 3805 wrth nice price. call knows something about the Irish. HEART LIBERALS, no questions asked. waHer x2151 or michelle x2644 NEED penn GA x-3100 .......... ..................................................... Good luck! " you and Mike ever need 
sex, money, or Rice tixs, you know who

................................................................ CLUB ~ 23 The but atuffed pizza In In the spirit of your kind of pro-test, I 
LOSTII LARGE GOLD TONE P..... give me Penn St. GA'al I WILL DO ALMOST ANYTHING FOR town. Groupa walcome. 234-3541. to call. Thanks lor a great weekend. Love 
heve two things to say: 1. Ha Ha Hall!! BRACELET AT 818 GRACE ON OCT 
PSU GA'S ?II CALL MARY AT 264 425911 Shana & Amy
Okey, I'll pay good money for them, but 2. We heard your cries of lies, lies, lies 
I need a ride lo LOUISVILLE lor Thanks­1 PENN STATE ticket for sale call Liz x giving. Leave early Tuesday, Nov. 22. I need a ride to U of MICH anytime this 
28. CALL ERIC AT X3883111 I really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at but Duke's demise 
263-4220. is our long awaited prize.
weekend Pleasecall Stacy 1511

Whoever 1001<-&CCidently I'm sure my 4957 Name terms. Call T.J. at II 3810 blue knapeack from south dining hall, 1 I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS IN A Of the next lour years really need those notes. Please return to BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF 
NEED PENN ST. TIX-STUD OR GA UNIV PIZZA DLVY 2n-8888 ""JUNIORS"" we have no fears,MAGS 3322. ""JUNIORS""
south or call Jean at 271·9885. THEM. THArS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL bacause under George Bush
JUNIOR CLASS TRIP: 

HEY SENIORS ... HELPII I've lost my glasses and can not TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A NMd 2 Penn State GA'a. Call Shawn Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell CHICAGO BLACK HAWKS see lo take notes in classIll you've found FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DONT 
BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL America will reach new highs. 
x2380. $$$$$ Going to an SYR is hell. vs. BUFFALO SABRES
a pair of pinMose rimmed glasses in DELAY-CALL TODAY Ill You and I, we both know that, WED. NOV.16
brown leathensh case. please callx3782-Need PSU tix stu or GA Call Chris at The Christmas Formal is where It's at. 
HEY MEN ... WATCH OUT Ill

2n-7364 $15 TICKETS ON SALE FRIDAY-my G.P.A. depends on you! Thanks. 
Be sur11 to sign-up before you leave lor
My parents would love to see the # 1 OUR LmLE S.P. JUST TURNED 181
Found: Sprint Fan Card near a phone in IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 Need 3 PENN ST stud. Scan 1730 Thanksgiving... 1:00 AT CLASS OFACE 
HAPPYBIRTHDAYIII

............................................................~ ... HO 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE I need 5 PENN ST stud tix call X3884 HO LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE 
LaFortune. Please call x3782. GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. 
THE "NOr GANG

or X3639 HO CLASS OF 1980
LOST: A baige umbrella last Friday in I NEED PENN STATE TIXI PLEASE BE A PART OF ITLaFortune. II you heve found it, please CALL II 2n1 ASAP! ASK FOR BETSY 
NEED 7 PENN STATE GA'S CALL 264­Michael A. Klpp-1 guna -ought to contact Andy at 283-1876. Thanks. 
4336 Chrlatmu Fonnal... RIDE NEEDED: TO WASHINGTON D.C
TOP $ FOR GOOD SO. CAL SEATS. 
buy Smitty a bear. Happy annlverury.

Christmas Formal ... Lafortune on 1117 .......................................................... Chrlslmas Formal ... AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK, I love you, Kim
LOST: Ring in Ladies Room of NEED 2-e. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT 
(805) Nll-1181. LEAVE MESSAGE. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE Be thhere on Dec. 2
DESPERATELY SEEKING USC TIXII CALL CHRISTY AT 264-5146 SHARE GOOD LUCK KEITH
Reward Reward NEED PENN ST TIX TERRY 4013 WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL KATHLEEN ................................................................. $$$1 FALTO YOU'RE 
THE NEXT DM AND THE BEST THE

AT 264-5039. FALTO LOVE YOUCall II 2614 Happy 1 Bth Blnhday Amy!I
Six Penn State GA's Best Offer by CRIME at Notre Dame!Missing:Chris
NEEDED-2 STUDENT OR GA'S FOR
11111A!8 CALL (616) 962-1664 White's BIG SWIG. Any info? Contact CORRINE,
FOUND IN NOH: one ladies watch Con­PENN STATE. CALL SUE 284-5063. Cathy, Kathy, and Mlchalle 
the Big Guy at Stanford. THANKS FOR THE BEST TWOtact Katie at II 4824 need at least 2 penn st. ga's chris at 
MONTHS I 

HELP! REALLY NEED 3 GAs to USC!
1352. 
HEY Chris WMel We heard you. had YOUR GREAT AND I LOVE YOUIIIIICecilia 4431GENEROUS REWARD FOR RETURN something BIG but now we've got 11. Bet LEN

OF lWO SMALL GOLD (SMALL DIA­............................................................... " ...AS I HUNG UP THE PHONE,
$$$$$$ you're preny sore. We'll ba in touch rt

MOND) RINGS LOST AT NO FOOT­No Gimmicks. just Cash I need 1 Penn IT OCCURRED TO ME­
NEED PENN ST. GA'S you want it beck. 

BALL GAME OCT. 22, 1988. PLEASE CALL TASHA X40n St. Call Drew 1686 MY BOY HAD GROWN UPI" I need HOCKEY EQUIPMENT' If you
..............................................

CALL COLLECT 21 S..988-2544. HAPPY 18TH, TIM
$$$$$$ Attention All SMC Fnsahman have any you want to sell call Jack 3459 

DESPERATELY NEED 8 PENN STATE FROM HARRY, WHO IS STILL DEAD, 
Tlckata tor the Freahman Formal

GA'S CALL TODD AT 1406 OR 1409 AND YOUR LIVING I LOVING FAMILY. 
Paint the Town Red 

..........................
OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS Will be aold on Wed and Thura
HELP! I need 2 Penn State student tix. Can anyone give me a ride to Cincinnati ATTENTION ALL WOMENPENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT
FOR RENT 

November 8 and 10 AFTER 5 PM 2HHI33-10n FRANCIS. 
Please call Mike at 4075.Thanx lor Thanksgiving Break? Please call Jen­ATNMMC
In all the dorms

nifer at ~2128. Joel Clark is hereby oH limits to all of you 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 21S.. 
I NEED 2 PENN ST STUDENT TIX. ................................................................ until further notice. Please ladies, this is
NEED 2 OR 3 USC TIX JIM 33712111-7153. 
..............................................................; .. x1631 MATH TUTOR-234-3878. . Needed 2 Penn State Tix not a joke. The gravity of the situation I nood Penn St. GA's & student tickets. cannot ba stressed enough. Please, so­
.......................................................... ................................................................ 
call 284-5545 

271-6311 I WILL DO ANYTHING FOR A SET OF NEED RIDE to North. NEW JERSEY lor cial diseases should not ba trifled wrth. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'n Brukla81 
4 PENN G.A.'S. MY BROTHER IS Thanksgiving. Can leave anytime from Thank you.luat 20 mlna. from NO. ldeel for all NO 
COUNTING ON ME. DONT LET HIM Tues 11!22 on. Call Chris 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S-DAN x4115
actlvltlea. ~now. 818-471-5711. Hey Ticket Lady,
DOWN, CALL TIM 263-1616 X 2773 TO: Interested, FROM: Cornell sweat No. 
Happy Birthday! I NEED 1 USC TICKET PLEASE CALL Stop on 2nd and say "hi".
Love the Ticket Man

Fumlahed Rooma I 2 Bedroom home 
I need 2 Penn Sl GAs. call 272-4223BETH x3705
nMr campua.272~ ......................... 
I 
please sell your penn state ticket; erther I Need Two Student and One GA lor Chubby 
stud or Ga call kristie 2558

HELP! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SII CALL 
MODEL UN'ITED''N'AliONS'''SiMliLA:

FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND. Penn State BILL (1307)
277-1513
AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES­.........................;..........................: .......... TION will be held THURSDAY, Nov. 10 
To SWEETEST in
In 124 Hayea-Huly from 7 to 8:30p.m. the two gourmetsTER. 287-6389 OR 683-8889. 

COMEDY JAM Lyons: Thanks so much for the
PLEASE I NEED 4 TO 6 GAS FOR PENN Penn St stud tix bast oHer by 11114 2n­
Bring nsaolutlona and a friend. We will $$NO OBJECT PLEASE CALL DAVE 4660 torn 
COMEDY JAM AWESOME meal! Love: Steve, Ron, Jim, 
ba judging In order to take people to AT X 227511 
COMEDY JAM and Pete
Waahlngton In April!

COMEDY JAM
WANTED 

I NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND I WILL """"PENN STATE STUDENT Thurs. Nov. 10 at 9pm in Thea's FREE TWELFTH NIGHT TIXII i will buy. 1297
JUNIORS NOT STOP AT ANY COSTIIS$ PILEASE •••••••••••• SALE FREE FREE ...tiD or SMC ID
TICKET""""" FOR 
JUNIORS CALL ANDY AT 1930 OR JUUE AT
t 
•••••••••••• INTERESTED? CALL MIKE ?President Bush? 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for S$$ Only 3 JOIN THE CLASS OF 18110 AT: 
27!11. AT 1228 GOD HELP AMERICA
blocks from campus. Pandora's Books BEACON BOWL 
CONECTtWESTCHSTR & ROCKLND
808 Howard St. Juat on N.D. Ave. Ph# THIS THURSDAY AT 9:30 
I NEED 3 PENN ST TIXI X4002 CATHY. NEED PENN ST. STU. TIX. CALL JULIE CTS.
233-2342 

X1271 XMAS BUS TRIP $90 THE MOST IMPORTANT FILM I NEED PENN STATE TIX STUD OR Sign up and depos~ Monday & YOU WILL SEE THIS YEAR. ..
ALASKA now hiring. Logging, conat., JUNIORS 
GA,-3 JIM 1935 Need 4 Penn St tickets call: 2n-0535, Tuesday, 14 & 15, 5:3D-6:30 CRY OF REASON 
flailing, nu,_, teachera, ate. Excfi­JUNIORS 
ask for Mike S. Lafortune LDbby near Info. Desk TONIGHTII 8:00 PM at CSC
lent PIIY· For mora lnfonnatlon call CLASS DINNER AT SENOR KELLY'S 201H4&-7544 axt. A-415. THIS FRIDAY 5-BPM $3 ALL YOU CAN 
HELP! I need 3 PennS!. tickets. CALL MARY X3782 ANYTIME!!! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's and 1 STUD. GOOD NEWS, TIM! 
EAT TACO BAR DIRECTIONS OUT­

CALL TONY AT 1089. I have uHCI all my po-rlul Influence
RESORT HOTELS, CruiMIInea, Alr-SIDE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE-2nd 
to gat you Into my old Natlonel Guard
1.,_, I Amu-.t Parb, NOW ac­FLOOR LAFORTUN RIDES LEAVE 
HELP! 2 Penn St. GAs are alii need Call MY PARENTS ARE COMING ALL THE un". ot couraa, I waa more axc"ed
captlng application• for aurnmar joba MAIN CIRCLE AT 4:45,5:45,8:45 CALL HAPPYBIRTHDAY,
Tina at x4846 WAY FROM SOUTH AMERICA FOR before old big toe told me "The,. ain't
lneamahlpa,-.,.,._ poaHiona. For THE OFFICE FOR MORE INFO (23S.. JENNY!
THE GAME. I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE no draft no morw." 
mora lnfomllltlon and an application, 5117) BE A PART OF THE CLASS OF 
For Sale: round trip ticket from SB 1o PENN GAME THEY WILL PAY YOUR Happy 18th-From The Folka I B. 
181101

-Natlon81 Collegiate Recraatlon ONLY TWO DAYS EARLIER AND YOU Servtc:e, PO Boxll074, Hilton Head, sc MIGHT HAVE CAST THE WINNING
usc 11121-11!28 call 272-1992 TUITION ... CALL RAUL OR CHRIST AT 
1873

21111311. "John Blulla a male alut." t1-T.C. BALLOT ... ONWARD TO A VICTORY IN
I NEED ONE PENN STATE GA OR STU­We've come so far, just one more for 11 
19921 (AFTER ALL, YOU'LL BE

DENT I need 4 PENN GA's and 2 USC tixs. 1. Go Chickens! 
................................................................ VOTING!)

Full Time Nanny PLEASE CALL SAM AT 239-6696 $$$ Call Amy 2691 SENIOR BLOCK PARTY 
2 Young Child,., ........ATfiiirnON··sc;j;iioiloiiesi······· ME 
-.Jonal Chid C.. Rednecks need 1 student and 2 GA's lor THE PROOFS FROM THE FORMAL THE PLACE TO BE ON FRIDAY, NOV 
Light Houae Wortoarganlzatlonel STILL BADLY IN NEED OF 6 PENN ST Penn State garna. Call Bosephus at 3157 HAVE KICK OFF PENN STATE WEEKEND 
Sldlla TIX 4 GA & 2 STUD CALL 1767 or 3155. ARRIVEDII IN STYLE 
Excellant Salary I Benefit Program COME TO THE CLASS OFFICE ON 2ND Send Raaume To: Marllay Cochnln 3 PENN ST. STUD TIX 4 SALE Naw Jersey devil also needs Penn State FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE DURING OF­Daelgn~ TOP OFFER BY FRIDAY GA'a. Call Rudolph at 3155 or 3157. FICE HOURS TO BUY PICTURES TIL 
P.O. Box 2027 NO OFFER, NO RESPONSEIII NOV 11 OH-5WEET MEMORIES! Elkhan, IN 411515 LEAVE MESSAGE AT X3201 NEED PENN ST TIX MARYx3745 2 NEED THANKSGIVING RIDE TO MARY MAHONEY 
PITTS X4953 IS THE MUSTY TIM, ............................................................. GODDESS OF ND
·······························································• 
I need Penn State tix more than anyone NO GIMMICKS.JUST CASH.I MUST I NEED PENN ST STUDS CALL DAVE EVEN tHOUGH IT'S YOUR 18TH CALL YOUR FRIENDS ABROAD! Win a GUH! GUH! herel Rick 4235 GET 1 PENN ST. STUDENT TICK­2258 BIRTHDAY TODAY, I STILL EXPECT 15 min. phone call to any country, cour­................................................................ ET.CALL STEVE AT X1603. YOU TO STUDY. tesy of Notre Dame's student govern­Help! Need ride to Pm or CENTRAL HELP! I need a stud Penn St. tik. -call LOVE, MOM I DAD ment and Alumni Association. • Chances PA. for THANKS BREAK. WiU share ex­I need PENN ST tix. please call Amy 3789 P.S. NOT ME, PARTY HEARTY! are $ .50 each and will ba sold in the penses. Can leave Wednesday. Karen BRIAN x2131 LOVE, Bl dining halls on Wed. and Thurs. Ques­


I x4041 Need 6 PENN ST TIX!I John x4364 tions? Call Mary x1363 
I ........................................ I I 
----~-~---~--~------~----~~---~---~------------------~-----­
Thursday, November 10, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Stonebreaker named finalist for '88 Butkus 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Mike Stonebreaker of No. !-ranked Notre Dame was named Wed­nesday as one of the five finalists for the fourth annual Butkus Award, presented by the Downtown Athletic Club of Orlando to the top linebacker in the country. 
The other four finalists are Keith DeLong of Tennessee, Percy Snow of Michigan State, Broderick Thomas of Ne­braska and Derrick Thomas of Alabama. The Thomases are not related. 
The 12-man selection com­mittee will elect the winner on Nov. 29. The Butkus Award will be formally presented at a din­ner on Dec. 3. 
Oklahoma's Brian Bosworth won the award in 1985 and 1986 and Florida State's Paul McGowan won it last year. 


Kickers 
continued from page 16 
us in a better position to win the football game is the guy we'll put in there." 
The Irish had two kicks blocked by Rice last week, a field goal and an extra point, 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

* 
; 
$ ~ 
Wednesday Nov 9_ Debate the Issues
* Yehuda Kovacs, an Israeli student in the MBA program ..._ Edna Hidekell, Israeli International Peace Stud1es Scholar 
~ Zougbi Zougbi, a Palestinian in Peace Studies 
* 
Jaxruil Abn-Attiyeh, Palestinian International 

* 
Peace Studies Scholar : Theodore'sfpm


* Th~:'ki\~o:tt~~lPt':~do'n1:~on
* International Student Lounge, 4:30pm
:
* Friday Nov 11-Middle Eastern Dinner
Club 23, 6-8:30 pm, $5

! Tu~~~w~~~Tf:f!I~t 
Movie & l2jsorssjpn
* Montgomery Theater, 
8

* pm
* 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO Sailing Club will host a barbecue and open sail day Saturday beginning at 11 a.m. All members are asked to attend. Race. team practices for the Timme Angsten Regatta will be held every day next week from 3 to 5:30 p.m. -The Observer 
The Synchronized Swim Club is holding practices on Tuesdaysand Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and on Sundays from 11: 15 a.m. to 12: 15 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is welcome. Any questions should be directed to Tara at x3867, Katie at x2646 or Ann at x1294. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will have a meeting Friday at 4:30p.m. in LaFortune near the Sorin Room. A schedule of ice times will be handed out as part of this meeting. All players are expected to attend. Any questions should be directed to John Kirk at 289-1124. -Associated Press 
A SMCintramuralracquetballdoublestournament for all Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff will have its entry deadline at 5 p.m. today at Angela Athletic Facility. Participants will schedule matches on their own following the timeline established. For more information, call 284-5549. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
the latter having been run back for two points by Rice outside linebacker Bill Stone. 
"Mter looking over the films," said Holtz, "we saw that on the extra point, the tee was too close to the line of scrimmage. Granted, we didn't block very effectively~ but the tee was at least a yard too close to the line." 
A prediction about a seldom if ever heard from player from Lou Holtz: 
"I've been around a long time and I'm not wrong very often about personnel. I'll tell you right now that George Poorman is going to be the shock of his (freshman) class. He is really something." 
Poorman, a quarter­back-defensive back out of Palatine, Ill., has yet to play a 
down this season.  
More  Holtz,  waxing  
philosophical:  
"Even  though  the  season  

starts to get long about now, sooner or later the players will realize that the journey is more fun than the destination. They don't realize that now, but they will. The fun of the game is get­ting to where you want to be." 

***************************** ************************** 
l*~*!l!*~*!*!!*!*!*~*~*~*~*~*!*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*li*~*iiii*il*ii*ii*il*iiil*ll*li*il*ii*iil*li*il*iiii*il*il*il*iiii*il*ii*il*il*lill*ll*li*il.*la*••••••••••-crowds. Schafer expects more i
of the same.[U]~ UinlD(Q:;I m;ro;:::ra;Jill "One difference this 
l J

~ ~ U~~ U W ~ W ~ ro;::ro)nfoVi\\V7 weekend," said Schafer, "will Lr WL.I~ U 
be the high altitudes· we'll be 
not going to be scoring the

lt-B k k amount of goals we did last 
ST=sortd by: ; an osl e year aS a reSult Of Our SChedule.
} · .. .f111r.,. ~ It's a real plus to have a fresh­~~ ~ continued from page 16 ~=~~~m;a~:~ai~ .~nd contrib­lf-Bankoske and the Irish will
* "For all of the young have their hands full this
*

* 
players," said Schafer, in his weekend against a Falcon

* 
second year as Irish mentor, squad who will probably be

* 
"these first eight games have looking to exact revenge on : been quite an awakening to the Notre Dame. 

* 
world of college hockey. But Last year's series between

* 
David especially has made tre-the two teams at Notre Dame

* 
mendous improvement over provided the most exciting and 


lf­

16 :hi~.~~: ~~he~~~emely gifted ro:::t~~i%~t~~~~: ~a~~y~~~ 
1

/.. . i ~~ * playmaker who is very both in tense come-from­Mft4+ju&\4tkl : of~ensive-min~ed. And I don't behind efforts to the cheers of· * mmd that a bit because we're the season's largest home 

ALL TIMES: 8 pm & 10:15 pm ADMISSION $2 CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
playing in up in the Rockies. We're talking about short, 
short 30-second shifts and then back to the bench. But other­wise we'll prepare just like we would against any other team. They're all tough this year. 
"Lately, we've gotten our goals-against average down to about where it should be, but defense is still our top priority in practice. We've got to give (goalie) Lance Madson more help than we are. I'm glad he's on our side. He's made a lot of defensive breakdowns look a lot worse than they could have." 
Both games in Colorado Springs will be at 7:30. The Irish return home next Friday for the first leg of a series with Lake Forest. 
-
~ • 


Introducing the newB.M.O.C.-the big­gest Macintosh on campus: 
The Macintosh' II computer. It's the per­fect roommate for power hungry students who do high speed computing, video pro­cessing, engineering or graphic design. 
Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II is the fastest, best performing Macintosh ever built. Yet with all its sophistication, it still has the same point-and-click simplicity that Macintosh has become famous for. 
Which means, ofcourse, the Macintosh II and you will be the perfect roommates: 
It cooks. And you up. 
The power 
to be ® your besf 
Computer Center 
I 

Room 25 Math B1filding 8:00AM-5:00:PM 
.. 
! 
t ­
• 
• 

' t ­
t 
----------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 10, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Senior linebacker sets tempo for Irish defense 
Pritchett 'an 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
For average Notre Dame fans, fifth-year senior linebacker Wes Pritchett represents the intensity and physical play needed to play his position. 
But there are many sides to Pritchett, whom Irish head co­ach Lou Holtz calls "a Notre Dame man in every respect," that many fans may never see. 
Many may never see the Na­tional Merit Scholarship semi finalist recite Shakespeare as he did at the team's talent show. Many may never see him playing golf or badmitton. And many may never witness his sense of humor that Irish coaches say helps loosen up the team during practice. 
But what they can see in every game is Pritchett's in­tensity. 
It is an intensity that has propelled him to a team­leading 95 tackles, which ties him with Michael Stonebreaker. 
It is an intensity which can be best seen in the Miami game, where Pritchett broke a bone in his left hand during the first quarter but stayed in the game without missing a play. 
"I knew that my hand was sore, but my adrenalin was flowing so much that it didn't even phase me,'' said Pritchett. "But then I realized that I had broken the bone and I could hear crunching when I made a fist." 
ND man' 
. Pritchett then had a trainer tape two of his fingers together during a timeout and returned to the field. 
"That was probably the big­gest game since I've been here and it was going to take more than that to keep me off the field," he said. 
Pritchett went on to lead the Irish with 15 tackles and also broke up several crucial Miami · pass attempts. According to Irish defensive coordinator Barry Alvarez, such a perfor­mance was indicative of Pritchett's ability to set the tempo. 
"Wes knew the magnitude of the game and he wasn't going to miss it because of a broken hand," Alvarez said. "He didn't even miss a snap al­though he knew it was broken. That's just the kind of player he is." 
The native of Atlanta, Ga., said he developed his intensity at a very young age. 
Former Chicago Bears linebacker Dick Butkus and Pritchett's father, a former player at the University of Georgia, were both important influences on Pritchett's style of play. 
"I liked Dick Butkus because he was the meanest and nas­tiest football player of all time," said Pritchett. "I guess I just respected that and wanted to be mean and tough like him when I was seven and out playing in the backyard. And for me the game is the same as_}\'hen I was playing it 

Notre Dame linebacker Wes Pritchett (34) sizes and then moves In to make the tackle. Pete up Rice running back Richard Williams (32), LaFleur features the senior at left. 
as a kid." back's neck than strolling down unlikely and a tribute to Wes." 
"My dad really loved foot-a fairway. The spirit and intensity·with ball, and because of him I Because of the way the Irish which Pritchett plays is ade­really learned to love the defense is designed, Pritchett's quately linked to his decision game," Pritchett continued. accomplishments are often to attend Notre Dame and stay "He was from the 'old school' overlooked. Pritchett plays at for a fifth year. Pritchett cited and played the old-fashioned the "Mike" linebacker spot, what he believes Notre Dame way--hard and tough. That's which must always take on at stands for--"integrity, honesty, how I've always felt football least one blocker. The "Eagle" and great football" --as the should be played." linebacker, meanwhile, has -motivating factors to his deci-
Nonetheless, Pritchett's much more freedom and can sions. elementary and high school make tackles with greater days at Westminster .were ease. "I think Notre Dame is a spe­characterized by more than cial place and I didn't realize just intense football. Pritchett "Based on the scheme of our until I got here how fanatical was a four-time ·varsity golf defense, the Eagle linebacker the fans are and how unique the player, though most people is always going to have a lot of spirit is," Pritchett said. "I'm would sooner envision the 6'6, tackles," said Alvarez. "But to glad to have been a part of it 250 lb. linebacker twisting a have a Mike linebacker because it's something I'll take golf club around a quarter-(Pritchett) leadin£ the team is with me for the rest of my life." 
Noww~ can ~elp Englis~ majors
w1th therrecononucs. · 
~~iiiJI§~~~T Whatever field of study you're ~;~~~~~~~~;r
·~ in, aMacintosh~ con1puter can help n1ake the studying easier. 
And now Apple makes the payments easier, too, with the Student Loan-to-Own Program. If your parents qualify, you won't have to worry about the economics-you can attend to fun things, like term papers and exams. Stop by and pick up an application today. 
,
.® 

Apple'sStudent Loan-to-Own Program 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
© 1988 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Madntosh are registered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. 


'· 
~--------~-~~-~-~--­

page 14 
Manuel 
continued from page 16 
questions. This is Kentucky. 
Although a 38th Southeastern Conference . championship would seem a lofty goal, Sutton feels there is enough talent to make for an interesting year. 
Of course, Kentucky has a 
chance of winning the confer~ 
ence title. Would that really be 
news, in light of the fact the 
'Cats have won the SEC more 
than two~thirds of the time 
since 1933? Besides, the SEC is 
down anyway this year. 
As for the talent, Kentucky would have even more of it this year if Michiana's own Shawn Kemp had not lost his freshman season of eligibility to Bylaw 5-1-j. 
But now the Kemp saga has taken another turn. Kemp, fresh out of Elkhart 
is now fresh out 
of the University of Kentucky. 
He left the University after 
being accused of pawning some 
gold chains. Nothing wrong 
with that, except those chains 
happened to belong to Sean Sut­
ton, a member of the Wildcats 
and the son of the Kentucky co­
ach. 
Kemp now is the biggest name on the Trinity Valley (Tex.) Community College roster. 
This is Kentucky. 

"I'm not looking to throw a party jor Kentucky, but that is how I feel. I think it's an honest appraisal because I've seen all the programs, touching them as a coach, a player and as an NBC broadcast commen­tator. .. I have touched all the so-called capitals of basket­ball, but when it gets down to the short stroke the only true capital of basketball is Lexi­ngton." 
-Al McGuire 
This is Kentucky? Maybe to some people, but I prefer the statement Indiana coach Bob Knight was quoted as saying in A Season on the Brink. His Hoosiers were about to face the Kenny Walker-led Wildcats. The NCAA had ruled Indiana star Steve Alford ineligible for the game because he had posed fully clothed for a sorority's charity calendar. 
"For Alford not to play when all their kids are playing kills me. There are kids on that team right now who have got­ten more crap from alumni than any players in the country. I suppose Kenny Walker's never gotten anyth­ing. Anyone who believes that is either stupid or blind." 
-Bob Knight Now that is Kentucky. 
----------------------~----~-~-----------~-~--------­
The Observer 

Top recruits choose ND 
Special to The Observer Wednesday the Notre Dame women's basketball team reeled in two of the na­tion's best catches as 6'3 for­ward Dionne Smith and point guard Coquese Wash­ington signed national let­ters of intent to attend Notre Dame. Smith, from North Central .High School in Indianapolis, Ind., averaged 12.6 points and 10.3 rebounds last year as a junior and conies into her senior year as one of the most highly touted recruits in the country. Blue-Star scouting service ranks Smith as the 36th best women's basketball player in the nation and the 12th best forward. Smith, who had narrowed her choices down to Penn State, Illinois and Notre Dame, was also picked as an honorable mention All­America in Street & Smith magazine. "We're very excited about signing Dionne," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "She's really going to help us run and press. She's an up-tempo player and good defensive player. "Initially, she'll help our defense and rebounding and 
scorer. Dionne's a great ath­lete with a lot of potential.'' 
.. Washington, a playmaker from Flint, Mich., had placed Georgetown and Notre Dame at the top of a long list of schools vying for her talents, but decided early on that she would at­tend Notre Dame and can­celled the rest of her recruit­ing visits. 
''She is very quick and can really score," said Graduate Assistant Sandy Botham. ''She's averaging about 23 points per game right now and really makes things happen out there. 
"She plays a lot like (sophomore point guard) Karen Robinson, so we're all very excited about her sig­ning." 
Senior captain Heidi Bunek enthusiastically wel­comed the new arrivals as well: 
"Both players are going to help build up our program," said Bunek. "Every year we've been improving the quality of the team and add­ing two top players like Dionne and Coquese, we can't help but get better. 
''Next year Dionne will give us added strength and height and Coquese will help 
eventually she'll be a good give us even more speed." 
................... 
t Do you keep old pictures from the SPORTS ILLUSTRATED SWIMSUIT ISSUE :

on your wall or bulletin board? If you 
: 
do, or know someone who does, call 
: 
233-6161, x331 between 9AM-Noon before Saturday to take 
i•
part in an upcoming story in 
---------~------------------------------------­
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Any Type Home-made "You've tried the rest, now try the best" 
1 Dollar Off Any Size Pizza With This Coupon* 
Pepsi-$2.50 Pitcher Free Delivery Dining Room or carryout 
.289-4625 921 N. Eddy, South Bend 
*expires Nov. 12th 
Thursday, November 10, 1988 

Veteran Belles squad starts preseason basketball drills 
By JANE SHEA Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team's season appears very promising for 1988-89 with the return of seven players from last season and the guidance of Head Coach Marvin Wood. 
The Belles have a strong re­turning nucleus as well as some new players that will add new depth to the team. Kathy Res­tovich from Minnesota was all­state in high school and turned down an offer to play at the Uni­versity of Minnesota to attend Saint Mary's. 
Senior Jennifer Harte returns as center for her fourth and final year. Laura Danch_ and Lisa McGrath are also back for their last season which will pro­vide leadership. 
On offense, Coach Wood plans to use the fast-break to keep the team running. On defense, he plans to have a tight man-to-man. 
"I am very optimistic about the season," said Wood. "The attitude at practice has been super." 
Junior Dawn Brohman is playing on the team for the first time after having a solid high school career. Two other juniors, Julie Radke and Anne Gallagher, who played last season, will also contribute to the team's strong base. 
"I look for improvement as the season continues," said Wood, "We are playing against some tough Division I and II schools." 
The Belles will scrimmage Nazareth College and Glen Oaks Friday and Saturday, respectively, at home. 


CHIMES LITERARY -......... MAGAZINE 
NOW ACCEPTING PLAYS POEMS SHORT STORIES SUBMIT TO 303 MADELEVA BY TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22 

FOR FALL CONSIDERATION ­
CALL TO PEACEMAKING 
Thursday, November 10 
HOSPITALITY LUNCH 

11:30 A.M. to 1:00 P.M .. CSC CoHee House Sponsored by 
Women United for Justice and Peace FILM: CRY REASON 

A film about Beyers Naude, the leading white South African dissident 
who holds an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame. 8:00 P.M. at the 
CSC, with discussion led by Peter Walshe. Professor and Director of 
African Studies, Notre Dame, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network. 
Friday, 

November 11 "RESPECT FOR HUMAN DIFFERENCES AS A POTENTIAL OUTCOME OF CULTURAL DIVERSITY" Roland Smith, Executive Assistant to the President, Notre Dame. 12:15 P.M. to 1:00 P.M. CSC, Room 124. ANTI-APARTHEID RALLY 
12:15 P.M. steps of Administration Building, Sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network. 

• tfO-C/0-RE#E#8ER. ... 
•
FRIDAY 
LOtiCtt • 

• 
____j
--_____________ 


Thursday, November 10, 1988 The Observer 
page 15 

CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
Hosted By ... Kevin Matthews The LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ in Chicago 
Featuring... Ed Fiala Guest on the Tonight Show, Oprah Winfrey Show, 
I. 
y: The Producer 
HBO&more! 
_...y: FIX
Thursday, Nov. 10 
1~ ..aay: A Fish Called Wanda 9pm, Theodore's Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2 
4:30 p.m. A Fireside Chat with Prof. Khalil Matta about 
Lebanon, ISO Lounge. 7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all Arts &Letters, Business, and Math students interested in careers with Aetna Life and Casualty, Alumni Room, Mor­ris Inn. 
7:30 p.m. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Lecture by Mike McCoy, Harry Flaherty, and Mike Cobb, former professional ath­letes, Library Auditorium. 
8 p.m. African Studies program presents "The Cry of Rea­son," film and discussion led by Prof. Peter Walshe, CSC. 
8 p.m. Career and Placement Services present a reception for all ALP A and Marketing students interested in careers with Foote, Cone, & Belding, Upper Lounge, University Club. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
4:30 p.m. Critical and Interpretative Studies Lecture "Gramsci and Feminism," by Anne Sasson, Kingston Polytechnic, London, 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Art History and Design Lecture "Warhol in Con­text," by Charles Stuckey, Art Institute of Chicago, Annen­berg Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Duggan Performing Arts series presents Ed Metzger in "Einstein: The Practical Bohemian," O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Gyro Turkey Cutlet Pork Loin Beef Stroganoff Meatloaf Stuffed Peppers Cheese Ravioli Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 

Jerks 
YOU





ACROSS 28 "-Apart," 45 Palette pigment Frost poem 
1 Defense method 4& Grating sound 
29 Sternward 47 Drop off 5 Cut capers 32 Israeli Chief of 49 Silly talk 10 Wharf Staff: 1974 51 Old mild oath 14 "On the land 35 Made a web 

-the sea" 55 Intoxicant in liq.
36 Standoffish 15 Playgirl 56 Complete
37 Nice one 16 Biblical 
57 BILL38 Hospital ship 

preposition 62 Notation on a
39 "-,thou art ticket17 JACK 

sick": Blake 19 "A~ apple­63 Dodge
40 Jazz trumpeter AI 

64 Tick off 20 Granada gold 41 Botanist Gray 65 Pelagic predator 21 "Scarface" star 42 A metalworker 66 Theme of this 
puzzle

23 Stop transmitting 43 On the Black 67Wayout
27 Flatboats 44 Hankering 
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1 Shake up 
2 Purpose 
3 Bandleader Severinsen 
4 Basketball defense 13 Cellist Ma 34 One more try on 51-duNord,
5 Live off the ­18 Cowpoke? a set Parisian depot 
the land 22 Pseudoesthetic 36JIMMY 52 Suffix with liquid 
6 Cell letters 23 Glide 40 Uncompromis-53 Pepper plant 
7 Quechua 24 Barge in ing 54 Canned meat B Threshold 
25BOB 42 Big, stupid guy 58 Dutch commune9 HARRY 
26 Actress Fawcett 46 Collected 59 Nope1 o Mountebank 
30 Hooch 48 A memorable 60Wallachor 11 FRANK Nelson 
~-='+~""' 

31 Maintain Whitney 12-impasse 33 Delusory so Merchandise 61 Even though 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay A.\J, YOU AL\.JAY5
KNO'W I JE:SU.S 
RU1N EVER.YTHtNc;! 


"Okay, buddy. Then how 'bout the right arm?" 
TO 
D\ES GUT THEN COMES BACk AT Tf-\E EloJD 
~ 

Sports 
Thursday, November 10, 1988 



The Notre Dame hockey team heads to Colorado for a two-game series against Air Force this weekend. Pete Sklko previews the 
Bankoske springs into action 
Irish hockey faces Air Force in two-game series 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 

And through eight games, the leading scorer for the Irish is, well, a bit of a surprise. 
Freshman David Bankoske, listed preseason as a right wing who would be fighting for playing time on one of the lower lines, has quickly vaulted to the first line amidst the likes of co­captain Matt Hanzel and the team's returning high-point man, Tim Kuehl. 
"Yeah, it's been kind of a whirlwind since I've gotten here," said the 5-10, 175-pound phenom out of Williamsville. N. 
Y. "I've felt very comfortable 
, 


David Bankoske 

so far with the team. But it sure helped having someone to break me in to the way things were going to work down here." 
Bankoske is referring to older brother Rob, a senior right wing who has made David's transition to college hockey smoother than most. 
"Rob brought me right into the weight room the first day," said Bankoske, "and intro­duced me to everybody. We joked around and got to know each other. I haven't had a problem since.'; 
Bankoske's nine points (two goals, seven assists) are testa­ment to that statement. And ironically, the Bankoske brot" 
hers are the only Irish regulars who have yet to register a penalty minute. Irish head co­ach Ric Schafer knows he has a find in David. 
see BANKOSKE, page 11 
On the 1Oth week, the Irish rested 
The off week. 
Some teams have several. Some teams have one or two 
of them choicely placed before tougher games in their 
schedules. Some teams have several placed choicely 
throughout their schedules. 
Lou Holtz would rather not have any. 
Pete Skiko 
Football Notebook 


"Right now, we're playing pretty well, and I would just as soon suit up this weekend," said the Irish head coach. "But of course, we can't control that. It just gives us more time to prepare for Penn State next Saturday." 
Holtz may also be hearkening back to last year's 30-22 debacle at Pittsburgh, which was also after an off week. l)uring that week, the then-fourth ranked Irish made some changes in personnel that may have cost them. Is Holtz planning more changes this year? 
"This year's squad is certainly a great deal different from last year's," said Holtz. "For the most part, we're healthy. We're not interested in making any changes. What we are interested in is improving as a team every day and being the best team on the football field on Nov. 19. We'll probably go light (in practice Thursday) and then we'll give the players Friday, Saturday, and Sunday off. Of course, that's always subject to change." 
There has been a lot of talk swirling about Ricky Watters and his status on the offense. Holtz downplays the hubbub and is standing behind the team's second-leading all­purpose yardage gainer. 
"We really don't like to place people into designated spots­-first-string or second-string," said Holtz, "but right now Ricky is playing behind Tony <Brooks) and Mark (Green) at tailback. He has the potential to be a great ballplayer, but he has to staighten himself out first. But by no means are we going to phase a player like Ricky Watters out of our offensive scheme. 
"When Ricky fumbled the punt (last week vs. Rice) and came over to the sidelines, I didn't say a word to him. There comes a time when nothing needs to be said. All I look for is a sense of responsibility to the team, and I see that in Ricky. I try not to get all over my players on the sidelines when they have the right attitude." 
Holtz, on the kicking game: 
"You know, kickers are like golfers. One day they'll go out and shoot the lights out, and the next day they can't score for anything. We just go from week to week with our kickers. As with everybody else on the team, whoever puts 
see KICKERS, page 11 

UK basketball promoters only fooling themselves 
"My genuine opinion of the Kentucky basketball program is that there is only one and it is top drawer, Park Avenue, and that all other basketball programs in the country think they are, but they are not." 
-Al McGuire 

Those words must come as music to the ears of anyone involved with the Kentucky basketball pro­gram. Basketball fans near the Lexington campus just haven't received much good news at all since their favorite team's season ended last March with a loss to Villanova in the NCAA Southeast Regional semifinals. 
Since then, the 'Cats have been hit with major losses in talent and respect. Numerous allegations of recruiting violations make it look as if major NCAA penalties are on the horizon. And with only one senior and one junior on this year's Kentucky team, some experts are forecasting the Wildcats to finish somewhere in the middle of the Southeastern Conference--a league Kentucky used to dominate. 
But you'd never tell this from looking at the 1988­69 Kentucky basketball press guide. The book's cover is entirely white--white basketball shoes, white shorts, a white hoop, a white whistle, white socks, a white tank top, a white clipboard and to top it off, a white basketball. You'd think it was previewing a wedding rather than one of the most penalized teams in NCAA history. 
I'd like to think you can't judge a book by its cover. Unfortunately, several excerpts from this media guide prove that's just not the case. The press guide uses the theme "This is.Kentucky," in describing one of the most successful collegiate bas­ketball programs in history. But recent charges have given Kentucky an entirely new look. 
Steve Megargee 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Take these examples, for instance: 
!Assistant coach DwaneJ Casey made a (sic! im­mediate impact on ·the Wildcat program, joining with head coach Eddie Sutton and assistant coach James Dickey in landing what most publications regard the best recruiting crop in the country the past two years. 
The NCAA has charged Casey with sending Emery air freight packages to the home of Ken­tucky recruit Chris Mills' family. The packages con­tained $1,000 in cash. 
In a recent issue, Sports Illustrated reported that the mother of Kentucky recruit Shawn Kemp (more about him later) was the recipient of quite a few Emery packages while Kemp was being pursued by schools like Kentucky, Indiana and Nevada-Las Vegas. 
In the same Sports Illustrated article, it was re­ported that Kemp's mother made "unusual pay­ments in cash" right around the time she received the packages. 
This is Kentucky. 

"l' believe Eric Manuel is one of the top young players in the country and certainly, at this stage, one of the top young players I've ever had the op­portunity to coach. If we are going to be successful, I think a large part of it will be due to the type of season Eric has." 
--Kentucky head coach Eddie Sutton 

In the wake of questions about his entrance exam results, Manuel has taken himself off the Kentucky basketball team for the time being. 
To avoid falling victim to Bylaw 5-1-j (Proposition 48), one must score a 700 on the SAT or a 15 on the ACT. Manuel scored less than 700 on two attempts at the SAT. He then made a drastic improvement by recording a 23 on the ACT. 
A United Press International report showed that the student sitting next to Manuel had the exact same answers as Manuel on the 100-question mul­tiple choice exam, with the exception of just eight 
see MANUEL, page 14 






