The big thaw 
, ---:·ol
IACCENT: Keenan Revue previews Partly sunny and warmer today with a high of 25. Low 
tonight 20. Tomorrow's high 
temperature is expected to 
JJ·
[VIEWPOINT: Weight jokes not funny 
soar to 45.
L---------------------­

VOL. XXI, NO. 78 THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
, 
FBI investigated groups opposed to U.S. foreign policy 
Associated Press 
Washington -A New York­based legal group charged Wednesday that the FBI vio­lated the civil rights of hundreds of people in conduct­ing a six-year investigation into organizations opposed to U.S. policies in Central America. 
The FBI acknowledged that it had conducted an investiga­tion into the Committee in Sup­port of the People of El Sal­vador, or CISPES, but maintained that it was looking into "alleged criminal activity 

Police, ND to improve relations 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
The Judicial Council received a report Wednesday night on a meeting between members of the Student Rights €ommittee and representatives of the South Bend Police Depart­ment, St. Joseph County Sheriff's Department, Notre Dame Security and the Office of Student Affairs. 
"We wanted to develop some sort of plan to better our rela­tions between the local law en­forcement agencies and the students," Student Rights Committee Chairman Artie Feles said of the meeting. 
The meeting, held Jan. 23, was attended by South Bend Police Chief Charles Hurley, St. Joseph County Sheriff Joseph Nagy, Notre Dame Director of Security Rex Rakow and Assistant Director Phillip Johnson and adminis­tration officials Dr. John Goldrick, Anne Firth and Elizabeth Pawlicki, said Feles. 
Feles said that relations be­tween students and the South Bend Police have been strained in the past, but have improved recently. 
The committee brought up questions about the rights of 
see INTERACT, page 6 
rather than the motives and beliefs of those being inves­tigated." 
And in an interview late Wed­nesday, Justice Department spokesman Pat Korten con­tended that the Center for Constitutional Rights, which has had the FBI documents for nearly two months, released the papers Wednesday because "they are attempting to influ­ence the Contra aid vote in the 
U.S. Congress." 
"This has little, if anything, to do with the FBI and has a lot to do with their attempt to influence the Congress," Kor­ten added. 
Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., chairman of the House subcom­mittee on civil and constitu­tional rights, criticized the FBI's conduct. 
"We want the FBI to catch spies, terrorists and crooks and put them in jail, not keep poli­tical groups under surveil­lance, even ones that disagree with the president," Edwards said. 
The Center for Constitutional Rights, founded in 1966 to pro­Yide "legal support to progres-


The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Getting carded 
Judging from the crowd in the greeting card section of the bookstore, Bridget's isn't the only place around that cards people. It looks like a lot of people might "get carded" by their friends for occasions such as birthdays and Valentine's Day. 

sive movements," obtained The FBI's field offices found 1,320 pages from FBI files no evidence to back up that through the Freedom of Infor­claim, she said, so the focus of mation Act. Many of the pages the investigation was turned contained blacked-out sen­into a "foreign intelligence­tences or paragraphs, and the terrorism" inquiry "even center said the documents rep­though no basis for such ex­resent only about a third of the isted." government's files. 
Margaret Ratner, the cen­"The new category allowed ter's education director, said the FBI to utilize 'special tech­the FBI began its investigation niques' that are considered ille­in 1981 to determine if any gal when applied to domestic members of CISPES, a group investigations," she said. working to end U.S. interven­tion in Central America, were 
see FBI, page 6
foreign agents. 




Vote on Kennedy goes to Senate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Anthony Kennedy's Supreme Court nomination sailed unanimously through the Senate Judiciary Committee on Wednesday and went to the Senate floor for· an expected swift confirmation. 
Majority Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., a committee member, said he would be will­ing to waive procedural re­quirements to allow a Senate vote Friday or next Monday on President Reagan's selection of the federal appellate judge from Sacramento, Calif. 

The committee's action was praised by Reagan and Attor­ney General Edwin Meese III, with the president saying it "gives us considerable confi­dence that the nation will soon have a full court." Reagan said: "I look forward to a pos­itive vote soon by the Senate that will bring this distin­guished and scholarly legal mind to the court." 
Before the 14-0 vote, senators praised the 51-year-old Ken­nedy as open-minded, an adv­ocate of the constitutional right of privacy, one who respected Supreme Court precedent and a judge with an expansive view of constitutionally protected liberties. 
But liberal senators also said Kennedy's former member­ships in clubs with few women 
members, and some of his 
more than 400 decisions, 
showed an insensitivity to wo­
men and minorities. These law­
makers expressed hope, 
however, that Kennedy would 
change his views on the job. 

"We learned that Judge Ken­
nedy is a case-by-case judge," 
said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., 
whose comments summed up 
the liberal position. 
"Nor, it appears, does he 
have an agenda to reverse 
scores of important Supreme 

Court decisions. Rather, Judge 
Kennedy has respect for many 
of the major rulings that the 
court has handed down in the 
last three decades." 
Despite the unanimous vote, there were moments of 'acrimonious debate at the com­mittee meeting -not about Ken­nedy, but over the defeat of Reagan's first nominee for the high court vacancy, Robert Bork. 
Bork was so much on senators' minds that Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., kept referring to Bork in his remarks when he meant to say Kennedy. 
The most vivid statement came from Sen. Gordon Humphrey, R-N.H., who said he was looking for a reason that Kennedy was cautious during his confirmation hearings, in setting boundaries on the right of privacy. 

aint Mary's professor begins anti-Contra hunger fast 
By KATIE KEARNEY congressmen and say they against the Nicaraguan members of the Pledge for for the three crosses on U.S. 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor are against any aid to the people with our weapons." Resistance group recently 31, just south of the Saint 
contras." Smith is allowing himself pleaded not guilty to cri­Mary's entrance. 
In an attempt to increase According to Smith, the only water for this week, but minal trespassing charges Smith said the middle public awareness of United fast is in solidarity with the he said he does not believe in connection with the Dec. cross is there to "call States involvement with Con­Vietnam veterans who are it will interfere with his 24 sit-in at the office of Third people's attention to the sit­
tra aid in Nicaragua, Peter fasting on the Capitol steps teaching ability. District Congressman John uation in South America,"Smith, a Saint Mary's asso­in Washington, D.C. with the "I've been O.K. so far," Hiler office to protest U.S. and is inscribed "Pray for ciate professor of mathema­hope of influencing Smith said. "The mornings support of the Contra Rebels peace, work for justice."tics, is fasting from Jan. 25 Congress' Feb. 3 vote are fine, but I get tired by in Nicaragua. They are pres­The other two crosses stand to Feb. 3. against continuing aid to the the afternoon. Most of my ently waiting for a court date for Nicaragua and El Sal­
Smith said he and about 25 contras. classes are in the mornings to be set. vador, which Smith said he other members of the He said the group is fas­and on Monday, Wednesday Smith, a long time peace believes are the "two Pledge for Resistance group ting "to express the depth of and Friday," he added, "so activist, has been arrested countries our money is are also "trying to challenge our concern for the I think I will be alright." twice before in similar situ­causing the most problemspeople to write and call their atrocities being committed Smith and four other ations. He also is responsible for." 
,....----------~---------~-----~-----~-­
1 Beware of becoming a

Of Interest 
Black <;ulturai_Arts Festival presents the Notre Dame Vmces of Faith Gospel Choir on Sunday January 31, at 7:00p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Obser~er Circle K International of Notre Dame will host their winter membership reception tonight. A presentation on the organization will be given at 6:00p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. -The Observer Fath~r ~dward "Monk" Malloy will be featured on tomght s Campus Perspectives on WVFI-AM 640 from 10 to 11 p.m. The program is hosted by Chris Shank. -The Observer Professor Jorge Bustamante, Eugene Conley Professor of Sociolo~y, will speak tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. B:t the Center for Social Concerns on "International Migra­tion and Sovereignty." The lecture is sponsored by the center and the Institute for International Peace Studies. All are welcome. -The Observer St~de':lts interested in participating in the 1988 l!mversit;y o~ Notre Dame excavations at Oppido Mamer­tma are InVIted to a meeting at 5:00 p.m. in Room 210 O'Shaughnessey. -The Observer The. Phil~sophy C_lub will hold its first general meetmg tomght at 5:30 m the ISO Lounge (second floor LaFortune). A pizza party will follow the meeting. New members are welcome. -The Observer Financial Aid Awareness Week is January 25 through 28. To apply for financial aid for the 198&il9 aca­demic year, financial aid forms must be completed by the student an~ par~nts ~nd received by the CSS by February 28, 1988. Fmancial aid forms may be picked up in Room 103 of the Administration Building. -The Observer American Red Cross volunteers are needed to assist at the Late Night Olympics tomorrow night. The shifts are from 8:30 to 11:00 p.m., 11:00 to 1:30 a.m., and 1:30 to 4:00a.m. New members are welcome. Call Michelle at 283-1293 to sign up. Volunteers should meet at the First Aid Room in the Joyce ACC. JP~ Executive Committee will hold a mandatory meetmg today at 8:00p.m. in the Sorin Room on the first floor of LaFortune. -The Observer The Anti-Apartheid Network will show "Children of Apar~heid", the CBS documentary about the impact of aparthei~ on the children of South Mrica, at 7:30p.m. in the ~ulti-Purpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns. It will be the first in an eight-week series of films on South Africa. -The Observer A Chilean lunch is being served today from 11:30 to 1:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Benefits will go towards the CILA Mexico Service Program. -The Ob­server Challenger Memorial Mass, sponsored by Air Force ROTC, will be held 5:15 p.m. at Sacred Heart Church. The entire Notre Dame community is invited to attend. -The Observer ~ollege Democrats of Notre Dame will hold an Important meeting at 8:00p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. All interested are welcome to attend. -The Observer Graduate students are encouraged to attend a workshop led by Rodrigo Atria concerning "Journalism Under the Chilean Dictatorship." It will be held today at noon in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer  
LAST YEAR 7.514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. • . f ... I\, . ~-f . ·~, ,, .i-­1 -. \ I / . '·~ J_" _,.. /I ~-" 2 ·. ~/ ·; ,. '·' ~­~........,,<:.J.,>­.... -''/.'·~~~ . .,_ -,....._,.'!--c:.-OOI'f T DIIVf Dlt\111111, 011 RIIK WfTH ANYOfU WHO DOt\  
-Ih-e-Obs.e~~er-­-­-----.L-=Y~ ---­Design Editor ............ Bernadette Shilts Accent Layout ............... Rachel O'Hara Design Assistant .............. Michelle Dall Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Roderick Typesetters ........................ Smed Laboe Viewpoint layout.. . .. .... Laura Manzi News Editor. .. ......... Scott Bearby Typists........ ..................... Wendy Burek Copy Editor .................. Kendra Morrill ............................................. Will Zamer Sports Copy Editor ..... Steve Margargee ND Day Editor.. .. Kathy McKee Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Photographer .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Trey Reymond Tile Olleener (USPS S99 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday except dllrinl exam and vacation periods. Tile O._,er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tile OlllerYer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tile Olllener is a member of Tile A.odllled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


human hood ornament 
You car dodgers are a nutty lot. 
You dash across ice-covered streets, dodging traffic, in the dark, against the stop light, in a snow storm. 
You all are taking one heck of a chance. Mter all, there are lot of drivers out there like myself --unaccustomed to driving on ice blocks. 
Some of us, for example, are from sunny Florida. Down there snow rarely, if ever, covers the road. The only thing slippery on the street are dead possums. 
So we're not used to driving on two feet of icy white stuff. Trying to avoid doing a 360 on four wheels is a new experience for us. 
So is trying to see in an Indiana blizzard. Sure, down South our windshields may be hit with a bird dropping now and then. 
But even that never covers the entire windshield, so we have no problems seeing while driving. 
Ice and snow are different matters, though. With that on my windshield, I know how Mr. McGoo feels when driving. 
Seeing the road, then, much less staying on it, is a challenge. 
And it's not just some of us from the Sunbelt who have trouble driving in the winter here. Maneuvering on icy roads is a nightmare for anyone. 

To be running anywhere near the road in this I guess you assume drivers can see you at weather, then, is just plain crazy--which means night. I imagine you think cars can stop without you car dodgers are just plain looney_ sliding and spinning on the ice. 
Now, everyone has run across the road Unfortunately, you're wrong. Dead wrong. against traffic at least once in their lives. And You're luck is going to run out. No matter everyone has walked too close to the roadside. how skillful a driver is, no matter how careful, But you car dodgers do it consistently. he won't be able to stop in time. And you'll be 
You seem to like dashing into oncoming traf­plowed. fic near the Commons and Bridget's. You love You'll be eye-to-eye with the driver, him in to forego the warmth of the Joyce A.C.C. to jog the car and you on it. You'll be a human hood and breathe exhaust on Notre Dame Avenue. ornament. And you glory in walking behind cars backing The driver will feel guilty. His car will be out on ice-covered parking lots. dented. You'll be squashed. And your friends 
You like wearing dark-colored clothes at and family will be crushed. night, giving new meaning to the words "effec­All this can be avoided, however. tive camouflage." You're fond of running out The next time you're jogging near or running from behind parked vans and trucks. across the road, assume the driver doesn't see 
But you hate stop lights. Green, yellow, or you. Assume he can't stop his car without it red, you don't stop for any light. ·sliding. 
You even ignore your Mom's heartfelt ad­Heck, assume he's just arrived from Florida. vice: "Now, honey, don't forget to look both That way you won't end up like all those pos­ways before crossin!! the street." sums down there. 
The 
.f££ 'DIC.K DRINk

Observer 

ULTRA GRAPmCS 288-0500 
Printed T-Shirts 

Jackets, sweats, hats, etc. with your club, sorority or dorm name. 

Call 288-0500. 


TOM DOOLEY AWARD WINNER 
-CEYL PRINSTER ND '76 
will meet with interested students on: 
FRIDAY January 29th 3: 30-4: 30 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
Coffee House 
Career: Executiv~ Director _of Gre!lter penver Local Development CorporatiOn -nonprofit-dealmg With loans to minority groups and women who own businesses in Denver. Graduate: 
Married with 2 young children Organize~ and coordinates the Denver Clubs' Summer Service 
Pro]ect-5 years Organized and participated in the Denver Urban Plunges Undergrad: Co-founder of the N.D. World Hunger Coalition Hall President and RA 

Thursday, January 28, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Candidates step up efforts 

Associated Press 
Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis on Wednesday criticized the Reagan adminis­tration's "failed and illegal" policy in Central America and said he would challenge a Pent­agon order to send National Guard troops there. A new poll showed George Bush gaining on Republican rival Bob Dole in Iowa.
'I 

In Michigan, meanwhile, Republicans waded through credential challenges to 1,800 delegates to this weekend's state GOP convention, where Bush and Rep. Jack Kemp are expected to split most of the 77 national convention delegates at stake. 
In Boston, Dukakis switched gears and said he would file a .... "' federal lawsuit against a Pent­agon order to deploy 13 Massa­r• ..... chusetts National Guardsmen,
"
' 

a public relations unit, to # • Panama and Honduras for two' .. weeks in late May.
' 
,-.f.,':
f .. • "I wasn't aware you had to
...._. 'tl.J 
go to Honduras or Panama to 
learn how to write a press release," Dukakis said. 
The Observer I Trey Raymond

Frosty needs a bath 


Violence in Jerusalem persists
Put away the spoons -this isn't a triple scoop of chocolate chip ice 
cream. Frosty's makers in Zahm just decided to give him a little character Associated Press 
by adding some dirt to the white stuff. Now if only they gave him eyes 
and a nose .... JERUSALEM -Newspapers published reports Wednesday of soldiers beating Palestinians~················~ and one quoted a trooper as+ APPLICATIONS + saying he was ordered to club 
Arabs at random, not just
: are now being accepted for : rioters as Defense Minister 
+ Building Supervisors of 
: LAFORTUNE STUDENT 
+ CENTER & 
: STEPAN CENTER 

SPRING BREAK IN CANCQN

+Apply at the Office of Student 

• 

MEXIC0-8 days, 7 nights 
Activities 
315 LaFortune Student Center From $365 up, pays for transportation, hotel accommodations, free parties, and much
I
Deadline for submitting more! And don't get arrested in Padre or . Florida. Go where everything's legal and theapplications IS sun shines 280 days a year, with white beaches, blue oceans, and no one knows
• 
what an 10 is. 


February 22, 1988 : 
..................; 
Yitzhak Rabin has declared. Soldiers in the occupied Gaza 
•Strip hit and kicked members of a CBS-TV crew who filmed other troopers arresting and striking a Palestinian. The army apologized. 
Dukakis had said Monday he would honor the Pentagon or­der under protest. But Wednes­day, Dukakis, a critic of aid for the Contra rebels in Nicaragua, said he will challenge a 1986 federal law that stripped governors of their peacetime power to block National Guard assignments abroad. If there is no ruling by the May 28 dead­
line,  Dukakis  said  he  would  
obey the order.  
Republican  Pete  du  Pont,  

with Paul Revere's Massachu­setts home as a backdrop, ac­cused Dukakis of "forgetting the lesson that we cannot mis­take peace for freedom. We did not during our war for indepen­dence and we cannot now as the Nicaraguan resistance strives for freedom." 
Another Republican con­tender, former Secretary of State Alexander Haig, cam­paigning in Dixville Notch, N.H., said he did not initially support aid for the Contras, but the United States now cannot afford to abandon the rebels. 
"We created the covert movement and now to cut and run on it would send a devas­tating message to Moscow, Havana and the rest of Central America," he said. "We simply cannot do it." 
Bush, campaigning in Wyoming and South Dakota, took comfort from a USA today-CNN poll of 200 likely GOP caucus-goers in Iowa that indicated the race there is tightening. The survey said Dole was ahead, 33 percent to 25 percent. Nine days earlier, a ~imilar poll put Dole on top, 41 percent to 26 percent. 
Dole, campaigning in North Conway, N.H., predicted that in the long run, the Democrats would benefit from the vice president's contentious inter­view with CBS anchor Dan Rather over the Iran-Contra arms deal. 
"Democrats are not going to 
let this issue die," Dole said. 
Bush, in Casper, Wyo., ex­
pressed sympathy for the 
state's struggling oil industry. 
The onetime Texas oilman 
said, "I know what it's like to 
have a rig sacked." 

In an Arab neighborhood of Jerusalem, police armed with assault rifles and clubs fired tear gas and rubber bullets at about 75 young Arab protesters. 
"Somebody there will get his head smashed. We'll break their bones," Associated Press reporter Sergei Shargorodsky heard a policeman say. The of­ficers entered only the edge of the neighborhood and the protest ended without casualties. 
Palestinians began rioting Dec. 8 in the West Bank ... nd Gaza Strip, which Israel cap­tured from Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 Middle East War. Israeli gunfire has killed 38 Arabs, according to U.N. fig­ures, and Rabin said the policy of beating rather than shooting took effect Jan. 5. 
The daily tabloid Hadashot published an interview with a soldier in Gaza whose descrip­tion of his orders contradicted Rabin's statement that beatings were not used as punishment, but only to quell riots. 
"In order to make people in the camps aware of the army's presence during curfews, we were given orders to knock on doors, enter inside and take the men out," reporter Menachem Shizaf quoted the 20-year-old soldier as saying. 
"We entered almost every 
other house. We stood the men 
outside with their faces against 
a wall, and while questioning 
them, the soldiers beat them 
with clubs. The men screamed 
in pain," the soldier said. 
"This whole business caused 
serious arguments among sol­
diers. Over time, the numoer 
who opposed the beatings 
grew, but no one refused an or­
der." 





Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6385 


Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 
STARr EXECUTIVE 

TRAINING NOW 
C/\I'T S/\M <iMiLIO ::! 1I) -::! 3 I) -(1 (J 34 
AIK.fUiiC£..... 
.... ... 
_._. .......... . ?
-· 1111 
=~"'="" = ~ ­
------~~-~ --­
The Observer 

THE NCR $300,000 STAKEHOLDER ESSAY COMPETITION FOR STUDENTS 
THE MISSION 

To CREATEVAWE 
At NCR, we've found that in order to create value, we must first satisfy the legitimate expectations of every person with a stake in our company. We call these people our stakeholders, and we attempt to satisfy their expectations by 
promoting partnerships in which 
. . 
everyone 1s a wmner. 
• 
We believe in building mutually beneficial and enduring relationships with all ofour stakeholders, based on conducting business activities with integrity and respect. 

• 
We take customer satisfaction personally: we are committed to providing superior value in our products and services on a continuing basis. 

• 
We respect the individuality of each employee and foster an environment in which employees' creati·vity and productivity are encouraged, recognized, valued and rewarded. 

• 
We think ofour suppliers as partners who share our goal ofachieving the highest quality standards and the most consistent level ofservice. 

• 
We are committed to being caring and supportive corporate citizens within the worldwide communities in which we operate. 

• 
We are dedicated to creating value for our shareholders and financial communities by performing in a manner that will enhance the return on their investments. 


THE CHALLENGE 
ToWIN 
We're so committed to our mission that we're encouraging the next generation of leaders to re-examine America's business values. We're doing this by holding the NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition 
_which all full-time undergraduate and graduate college or university students may enter. Entries should explore the topic: "Creating Value for All Stakeholders in Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations." 
The student chosen as the first place winner will be awarded $50,000 cash. Plus, the entrant's school will receive $100,000 in NCR data processing equipment. The second place winner will receive $15,000 cash and the entrant's school will receive $35,000 in equipment. One hundred $1,000 awards of merit will be given to chosen participants. In addition, selected award-winning entrants will be invited to attend the first NCR International Symposium on Stakeholders to be held June 9 & 10, 1988, in Dayton, Ohio. 
THERULES 
I) The NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition is open to any full-time undergraduate or graduate student attending an accredited college or university in the United States or its territories. 
2) Entries must be original, unpublished work on the topic: "Creating Value for All Stakeholders in Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations." Essays must not exceed 3,000 words. Areas of discussion may include, but are not limited to: Ethics, Corporate Governance, Strategic Management, Social Responsibility, or Managing Change as these topics relate to managing for stakeholders. 
3) Entries must be typed, double-spaced on 8'1z" x II" bond paper, one side only. A separate cover sheet should list the entrant's name, school, home address and title of the essay. Subsequent pages should be numbered sequentially and include the essav title in the upper right margin. Winners will be r~uired to produce proof of current full-time college or univenitv 
enrollment. ­
4) All entries must be postmarked by March 31, 1988, and received by Aprill5, 1988 to be eligible for consideration. Submit entries to: NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition, NCR Corporation, Stakeholder Relations Division, Dayton, Ohio 45479. NCR is not responsible for, and will not consider, late, lost or misdirected entries. 
5) In the event any prize winner is a minot, the cash award will be made to his/her parent or guardian. 
6) Awards to individuals will be reported as income on 
IRS Form 1099. All taxes are the responsibilitv of the recipients. ­
7) Award winners will be required to sign publicity reieases and affidavits of eligibility and compliance wnh all rules governing the competition. Failure to return executed affidavits and releases within IS davs of receipt will cause the award to be null and void. ­
8) All entries become the property of NCR and will not be returned. 
9) By participating in this competition entrants agree to these rules and the decisions of the judges which shall be final in all respects, and further agree to the use of therr names, likenesses and entries for NCR advertising and publicity purposes without any further 
compensauon. 

~tate and territorial judges will consist of panels that mclude NCR stakeholder~-Final selections will he madl· from state and terntory wmners by a nati ·I 
. d ona1pane 
of JU ges. 

If clarification is necessary, call (513) 445_ R
1667

EST. . am-5pm 
Award winners will be notified on or about M 
.,.. b --. ay 16 • I9RR 
•O o tarn a 1rst of finahsts, send a self-add ·-• . · 
rcsscu, stamnl•d 
enveIope to: ,. 
NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition 
NCR Corporation Stakeholder Relations Division 1700 South Patterson Boulevard Dayton, Ohio 45479 
NCR's Mission: CreateValue for Our Stakeholders 
-------~--------~---­
Thursday, January 28, 1988 The Observer page 5 




Aspirin: 'an amaz1ng drug'
• College Briefs 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -People have taken aspirin since ancient times, but the ubiquitous white tablet has become a glamour drug of modern medicine, good for a growing list of seemingly unr­elated ills. 
"It's an absolutely amazing drug," says Harold DeMonaco, director of pharmacy at Mas­sachusetts General Hospital. 
Impressive enough are its best-known attributes aspirin's power to ease pain, lower fever and relieve inflam­mation. But that's just the beginning. 
In its latest and perhaps most dramatic incarnation, aspirin turns out to be a potent weapon against heart attacks. A study published in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine shows that healthy men who take aspirin every other day can cut their risk of heart at­tack almost in half. 
"Anyone practicing medicine has always been amazed at how utilitarian aspirin is and how widely it has been used for many different purposes," said Dr. Lawrence Cohen of Yale Medical School. 
If aspirin is a miracle drug, as the people who make it like to say, then it's a miracle that's already widely experienced. The Aspirin Foundation, a trade organization, says Americans take more than 80 million aspirin tablets a day. 
It's also a miracle with draw­backs. 
Aspirin makes the blood less likely to form clots, or throm­bosis. This is how it prevents heart attacks. But at the same time, this increases the chances of unwanted bleeding. 
"Aspirin is a major cause of bleeding in our society," says Dr. Daniel Dey ken of Boston University Medical School. 
I


German abducted 1n 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Seven gunmen seized a West German in Syrian-policed west Beirut on Wednesday. A radio report said a Shiite Moslem militia leader ordered the abduction to pressure West Germany into freeing his two jailed brothers. 
The kidnapping occurred as Mohammed Hamadi, accused in a TWA hijacking, took the stand in the Duesseldorf trial of brother Abbas Hamadi, who allegedly abducted two West Germans in Beirut last year in a bid to free him. 
The third brother, Abdul­Hadi Hamadi, heads the secur­ity apparatus of Hezbollah, the most militant pro-Iranian fac­tion in Lebanon. 
Ralph Rudolf Schray, 30, was grabbed as he walked across a sidestreet off the Hamra com­mercial thoroughfare at 11: 05 a.m., said a police spokesman, who by regulation cannot be identified. 
The stocky, blond Schray works for an engineering com­pany and has lived in Leban~n for most of his life. Police sa1d the kidnappers had called Schray's Palestinian uncle, but made no demands. The uncle refused to talk to reporters. 
"The kidnappers did not state any demands," the police spokesman said, adding that it was not clear who they were. 
However a high-ranking of­
ficial ~ith Abdul-Hadi 
Hamadi's militia informed a 
relative of Schray that Abdul­"Thrombosis is an even larger cause of grief, but you can't get away scot-free." 

Studies have shown that one dose of aspirin can make a per­son's stomach release up to a teaspoon of blood. People with active ulcers are usually urged to avoid aspirin. 
Aspirin also can cause stomach upsets. Prolonged, heavy doses can interfere with kidney function. Use in children with fevers has been linked with a rare illness called Reye's syndrome. 
For these reasons, experts caution that people should con­sult their physicians before taking aspirin day after day to prevent heart attacks. 
Because aspirin is so com­mon, many people don't take it seriously, said Dr. Arthur Jack­nowitz of West Virginia Univer­sity's School of Pharmacy. 

Lebanon 
Hadi ordered the aoouctwn "to put pressure on Bonn so that it would release his two jailed brothers," the Christian-run Voice of Lebanon quoted the relative as saying. It did not name the relative. 
Earlier, the judge in the Hamadi trial warned that if the Schray kidnapping were linked to the proceedings, "it could make the situation tougher here." 
Schray was the first for­eigner abducted in Moslem west Beirut since June. His kid­napping brings to 22 the num­ber of foreigners held hostage in Lebanon. One other West German is a captive, and his abductors have demanded the release of Mohammed and Ab­bas Hamadi. 
LATE NIGHT** 




OLYMPICS 
FRIDAY, JAN. 29 AT THE JACC 9PM 4AM [Q)@[M~IJ [M]Q®® W©QD[ru 
Burlap underwear on a pledge does not constitute hazing, according to officers of Kappa Sigma at Southwest Texas State. One Kappa Sigma pledge was arrested after he refused to explain why he was in a field at 3 a.m. wearing burlap underwear and covered with motor oil. He was charged under a state law that requires anyone with knowledge of a hazing incident to report it. All 25 Kappa Sigma pledges wore the burlap underwear, a frater­nity tradition. -The National On-Campus Report 
Help for the homeless will be an issue in a student referendum vote this month at Columbia College. The stu­dent council decided to ask students if they approve of a homeless shelter in an unused campus building. There is no word whether the administration would support this measure. -The National On-Campus Report 
Possessing milk crates will soon be illegal in Pennsylvania. Penn State's residence hall association decided to hold Milk Crate Day so that students could turn in their "finds" without fear of reprimand. The idea was that students would be "uncomfortable" returning their crates to the police. -The National On-Campus Report 
The ugliest campus is Texas Tech, according to Sports Illustrated. For the second year in a row, Tech has won the dubious distinction. In response, loyal Tech sup­porters voted SI "the ugliest magazine staff in America." 
-The National On-Campus Report 
Portable toilet stuffing was a recent student government event at Long Beach City College. One group managed to pack 22 people into one of the green recep­tacles. -The National On-Campus Report 
Gay Scholarship and sexuality research have become the focus of Yale's new Lesbian and Gay Studies Center, one of the nation's first centers for homosexual studies. The center aims to promote research, discussion and un­derstanding of the varieties of human sexualities. -The National On-Campus Report 
The annual snowball fight across a street at the University of Nebraska at Lincoln injured several people. Students from residence halls and Greek houses also threw rocks, eggs and ice, as well as snowballs. The battle caused $1,000 dollars damage in broken windows. There is no word yet on how the student senate will pay that bill. -the Na­tional On-Campus Report 
Preventing fake Illinois I.D. cards from circulating is the aim of a new law that stiffens the penalties for offenders. People caught with a fake Illinois license face a 30-day jail sentence, a $500 dollar fine and, if an Illinois resident, suspension of driving privileges for one year. 
-The National On-Campus Report 

•

New AIDS VIrUS 
•
• found 1n 
l. 
NEWARK, N.J. -A seconG AIDS virus that was discovered 2 years ago in West Mrica and later spread to Europe has now been discovered for the first time in a patient in the United States, researchers said Wed-
ne~~:Y~esearchers at the Uni­..al versity of Medicine and Den­
,~ tistry of New Jersey said it is the first time the virus has been seen in the Western Hemi­
" sphere.The virus is called HIV-2, for human immunodeficiency 
virus, type 2. That distin­guishes it from the original AIDS virus, designated HIV-1. Officials at the New Jersey"Pizza Hud"(-dle) The Observer /Trey Raymond hospital hospital Said the pa­tient in whom HIV-2 was found
Who needs Pizza Hut? Notre Dame has its own for diners such as this one on those stir-fried tofu 
has developed AIDS as a result
Leprechaun Pizza Company in the Huddle as a refuge days in the dining hall. 
of the infection. The officials would not release the identity or location
Substitute fat cuts calories 
of the patient and would not say 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -NutraSweet Co. on Wednesday unveiled the first all-natural substitute for fat that mimics its rich taste and texture but cuts the calorie content in ice cream, butter and other foods by up to 80 per­cent. 
Visions of guilt-free treats in­spired medical experts and in­vestors alike to develop the substance, which is being called Simplesse and is made of ground-up protein from fresh egg whites or milk, the com­pany said. 
Simplesse does not require regulatory approval, and prod­ucts using it could reach the market within 12 to 18 months, Robert Shapiro, NutraSweet's chairman and chief executive, told a crowded news confer­ence. NutraSweet is the maker 
FBI 
continued from page 1 

The l<_,BI got its authority to conduct the probe from an ex­ecutive order signed by Presi­dent Reagan in December 1981 that allows the bureau and the CIA to watch people even they are not suspected breaking the law or acting on behalf of a foreign power, Rat­ner said. 
Interact 
continued from page 1 
off-campus procedures on alcohol tests and the poor attitudes of some students and some police officers, Feles noted. 
The officials were receptive to what the committee had to say, he added. 
"We offered some, they of­fered some and we got along without any problem," Feles said. 
Nagy explained that "police don't go looking to bust par­ties" but have responsibility to others in the community, Feles said. 
If a student has a complaint about an officer's actions, the police officials said, the student should "immediately" call the department and talk to either the shift commander or .a su­perior officer, Feles said. 
"The impression that we (the committee) got was that they (the police) really care about Notre Dame students," Feles added. 
"The CISPES files gathered by FBI headquarters show that the investigation was used as one of the pretexts for the har­assment and surveillance that was being reported to us, and 


Get home
that hundreds of individuals and organizations came within its sweep," she saiq. 
if Ratner said the center is con­

beforeyour
of sidering filing a lawsuit to stop the FBI from conducting similar investigations in the fu­ture. 

grades do. 
A program to have student representatives join police during their regular patrols in 
MIDWAY AIRUNES MIDWAY CONNECnON
the neighborhood is being con­
Atlanta Miami Benton Harbor 
party-goers, sidered, Feles said. 
Boston Minneapolis/St. Paul Bloomington/Normal
sensor "This way we can meet with patrolmen on a one-to-one basis 
Chicago (Midway) Nassau Champaign/Urbana 
Cleveland New Orleans Dubuque
in a non-confrontational set­
Columbus New York (LaGuardia) Elkhart
ting," Feles said, adding the 
Dallas/Ft. Worth Omaha Grand Rapids 
program will help to improve 
Denver Orlando Green Bay 
relations between students and 
Des Moines Philadelphia Indianapolis
, the police. 
The Council also heard abouf 
Detroit Phoenix Madison 
procedures for the upcoming 
Ft. Lauderdale St. Croix Muskegon 
student body president and 
Ft. Myers St. Thomas Peoria 
Indianapolis Tampa Springfield, IL 
vice-president, student senate 
and class officer elections by 
Kansas City Washington, DC (National) South Bend 
Jim Grace and John Wilson of 
Las Vegas West Palm Beach Traverse City 
Ombudsman and Student Gov­
Waterloo 

ernment Chief of Staff Mike Jaeger. The members were informed 
Reserve your flight now and guarantee a timely homecoming on the Midway 
Connection~ Catch the ConnectionsM to convenient Chicago Midway Airport, 
to pick up election materials at 
Student Government offices 
or beyond with quick, hassle-free connections to any of our Midway
between 4-6 p.m. on Feb. 15 for 
destinations.

student body elections and 4-6 
So for low fares and service that don't fail, call1-800-621-5700, or call 
p.m. on Mar. 7 for class officer 
your travel agent.
elections. 
Run-off elections will be held if no candidate receives a simple majority, Jaeger said. He also asked for help in count­ing votes the night of the elec­
C 1988 MIOWay .lurhnes Inc
tion. 
when the diagnosis was made.
of the most widely used no­for Science in the Public Inter­Gail Lloyd of the govern­calorie sweetener. est, a Washington-based me~t's Center for Disease Con­Simplesse could help reduce watchdog organization. 
trol in Atlanta confirmed thatdiseases stemming from fat­The center has been lobbying the case is the first diagnosisheavy diets that cause 100,000 against Procter & Gamble of HIV-2 infection in the West­premature deaths annually in Co.'s proposed fat substitute, ern Hemisphere.
the United States, said Vernon olestra, which was announced The university said in a state­Young of Massachusetts In­last May and is being ment that investigations havestitute of Technology. scrutinized by the Food and revealed no evidence that the"My colleagues and I are Drug Administration. 
patient with HIV-2 has spread really very excited," said "It (Simplesse) certainly of­Young, a professor of nutri­fers interesting possibilities,
tional biochemistry who was although it doesn't mean auto­recently appointed to the scien­matic health benefits to 
------------------------.--~~ 
tific advisory board of the consumers," said Dr. Michael 
ND '61 
Skokie. IlL-based NutraSweet. Jacobson, the center's execu­ironwoodSimplesse could help people tive director. lose weight and cut their In Washington, FDA spokes­
wines and spirits
cholesterol intake by providing man Bill Grigg said, "The 
Domestlc and imported wines heers liquors.
a way to do so without sacrific­NutraSweet Co. has not yet pro­ing taste, Young said. "Food," vided the FDA with enough 
(219) 272-7144 he said, "is meant to be en­information for an appraisal,joyed." but the agency will look at the 
172.'5 NOf\Ttl IRONWOOD DR. SOUTJ-1 B[ND. IN 4G635 
The fat substitute everi substance to determine whe­received a cautiously favor­ther it presents any regulatory, able reaction from the Center or in particular, safety issues." 

patient 
the virus to anybody else in the country 
Dr. Myron Essex, a re­searcher at Harvard Univer­sity, has maintained the HIV-2 virus does not cause illness as severe or in the same fre­quency as the HIV-1 virus, a view disputed by researchers in the United States and France 
"It was inevitable that we'd 
see a case here. But there is no 
cause for alarm," Essex said 
Wednesday. 

Luc Montagnier of the Pas­teur Institute in Paris, who dis­covered HIV-2 and was one of the discoverers of the original AIDS virus, said illness caused by the HIV-2 virus is exactly the same as the illness caused by HIV-1. 
Kirk Petersen, a spokesman for the New Jersey hospital, declined to reveal any more details about the diagnosis and said futher questions would be answered at a news conference Thursday. 
Last June at the international AIDS conference in Washing­ton, researchers predicted that the virus would soon arrive in the United States, but they said it would not herald a second AIDS epidemic. 

Thursday, January 28, 1988 
Baby abandoned 
•

1n freezing home 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A 7-month-old baby found abandoned in an un­heated apartment wearing a wet snowsuit but no shoes, socks or gloves will not need surgery to save her frostbitten limbs, as another child did last week, doctors said Wednesday. 
Dominique Starns was suf­fering from hypothermia and frostbite when found early Tuesday by a friend of her 18­year-old mother. Wayne Brown said he had demanded that the teen-ager tell him where the baby was, then discovered Dominique lying on frozen rags in the abandoned West Side apartment. 
Officials estimated she had been left alone for at least two days, but she was reported to be fine Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. 
Carolina Starns was charged with felony child abandon­ment. Prosecutors met Wed­nesday to decide whether to ask a judge to grant temporary cus­tody of the infant to the Depar­tment of Children and Family Services, said Terry Levin, spokesman for the Cook County State's Attorney. 
It was the second time in as many weeks a young mother 
Effective immediately New policy for Theodore's: 
1) A reservation application must be received seven days in advance of event. Application can be picked up during office hours 4-5 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in Theodore's office which can be accessed off of the south stair well on the second floor of Lafortune or in the Student Activities Office. 
2) A deposit of $50 CASH must be received three working days prior to the event. A cancellation must be received 24 hours before event or deposit will be lost. 
3) Reservations can only be made for Monday-Tuesday 2 
p.m. -12. Other days and between times are left to the discretion of the management. 
If there are any questions, contact Noel Murtha Reservations Manager at 28.3-.34.35 
from the Chicago area had been charged with abandoning a child with no protection against a numbing Midwest winter. 
"We average one (abandonment) a month and she pretty much fits the pat­tern," Dave Schneid man, spokesman for the ch~ld­welfare agency, said · of Carolina Starns. "Young, single, unemployed, facing an­other mouth to feed, a respon­sibility that must seem over­whelming." 
"People should weep as much for the mother as for the child," he added. 
Spokeswoman Jan Sugar said doctors estimate Dominique had been abandoned at least 48 hours when found. 
"Everybody here was cheered because she responded so well to warming, and she will not lose any of her ap­pendages," Ms. Sugar said. "She was dehyrated, but she's taking fluids well." 
She said several callers 
already had offered to donate Associated Press money to help the child and that at least one offered to be-EVANSVILLE, Ind. -The come a foster parent. basketball coach at Bosse High 
School said Wednesday his team no longer will play Heri­tage Hills High School in Lin­coln City because of a series of racial taunts, including the burning of a cross this week. 
"I'm not going back," said Bosse Coach Joseph Mullan. 
KILULEA OLDS NISSAN­'85 Buick Skylark 4 door Air Automatic stereo $4995 '83 AMC Nliance DL 4 door Automatic air stereo $3995 '83 AMC Eagle 4 wheel drive 2 door very deem ~ir auto­matic stereo 6 cylinder $3895 '83 Ford LTD 4 door air au­tomatic stereo $4295 '72 Buick Centurion Conver­tible one owner 66,000 miles $1895 
call Joe Sargent or Tim 
Berger 255-9644 
The Observer 
• ·-'"
.. 

The Observer I Trey Raymond 
And these are our trees 
A group of visitors to Notre Dame braves the slippery significant campus sights. They seem to be especially paths and cold weather to receive a guided tour of 
interested in the snow-covered God Quad pines. 
•

Racism persists 1n rivalry 
1ng the schools, Mullan said. 
Two years ago a Heritage Hills fan threw an empty chicken box on the court after a game between the schools and made verbal taunts, Mul­lan said. Then, four years ago a group of Heritage Hills fans showed up for a game wearing hubcaps and crochetted water­melons around their necks, the coach said. 
Mullan said 22 percent of Bosse's students and four of the basketball team's five starting players are black. Heritage Hills has no black basketball players. 
"We normally just receive a lot of verbal abuse" at Heritage Hills, Mullan said. "We did receive some of that last night. They were making sounds like monkeys, which really affects some of my black players." 
None of the Heritage Hills 
team members or coaches have participated in the har­rassment, the Evansville co­
ach said. 
Bosse standout Gary Frazier said the Tuesday night insult helped spur his team-leading performance. 
"On that last play, I saw the 'T' in Patriots (on a Heritage Hills jersey) and it reminded me of the burning cross we saw on the way here," Frazier, who is black, told The Evansville Courier. "That inspired me." 
The 6-foot-5 senior made the deciding basket in the Bul­ldogs' victory with less than two minutes remaining, and stole a pass with six seconds left to preserve the win. 
IBMI·'1XTIAT CO/ltiP.4TIBLES 
• 
Wholesale Direct IBMr..: XT & A f Compatible Microcomputers 

•JANUARY 
SPECIAL: COMPLETE Mono systems starting at $560; Color systems starting at $740 INCLUDING monttors 

• 
Full line of components & accessories (Hard Disks, Mouse..) 

• 
360 day warranty backed by local service department 

• 
Special system configuration and upgrade available 

• 
See our system currently on display at Notre Dame Computing Center Micro Demonstration Lab 


COMTALK COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
271-0444 
Conveniently located at University Gardens on St. R•. 23 ... #19, 6910 N. Gumwood -Bldg. 22 Suite G 
Roses are red, Violets are blue, Give your sweeetheart a cake that's as sweet as you! double layer cake chocolate or white only $9.95 call 232-8219 DAINTY MAID Downtown South Bend BAKf:, SJ..IOP North Village Mall In Sears University Park  






Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, January 28, 1988 
P.O. Box Q 
Weight jokes 

need  rethinking  
Dear Editor:  
What's  the  difference  between  a  

beached whale and an ND chick? Three pounds. How do you breach the gap? Feed the whale. 
What's the difference between a Lyons chick and a stick ofbutter? None­-They're both 98 percent fat. 
Jokes like these have become stan­dard campus humor and an accepted source of material for events such as the Morrissey Christmas skits, Sorin's talent show and the annual Keenan Revue. This form of humor is com­monplace, and continued exposure to such jokes results in immunity to their implications and potential conse­quences. Women are expected to be good sports, take these jokes in stride and appreciate "fat jokes" as being "all in good fun." But jokes with such serious stigma attached necessarily have equally serious repurcussions. 
As hall staff of a women's dorm, we feel a responsibility to express our con­cern about the impact these "jokes" can have. Our culture is one which places great importance on a person's exterior, and women are made to feel the connection between self -esteem and physical appearance. Weight-related humor magnifies this pressure to be thin to maintain their self-esteem. 
We recognize that "fat jokes" do not necessarily lead directly to the over­night development of an eating disor­der. However, these jokes create the delusion that with thinness comes ac­ceptance. Distortion of expectations be­comes so great that food abuse seems an appropriate vehicle to increased self-esteem. Here at Notre Dame, wo­men abuse food and abuse themselves to avoid being categorized as objects of these attempts at humor. 
These jokes are abusive and insensi­tive, and seem to us to be blatantly in­appropriate entertainment for an intel­lectual Christian community. If Notre Dame is indeed the community we like to think it is, then we all need to be aware of the effects of our actions on fellow community members. Someone must pay the price for laughs gained at the expense of others, and Notre Dame women cannot afford the cost of "fat jokes." Directly and indirectly, Notre Dame men are also affected by the attitudes tied to these jokes. Nega­tive stereotyping limits both men and women in their development and adds strain to an already inhibited social at­mosphere. 
Eating disorders are a human prob­lem and as such require a human response. As the opening night of the Keenan Revue nears, and moreover as we continue daily to face these issues, we ask you, men and women both, to consider just how funny those "fat jokes" really are. 
Mimi Beretz Ann Wiedemann Polly Carl Cate O'Hare Maricel Cruz Sister Jeannine Jenny Flynn Jockman, C.S.C. Rossana Silva Lyons Hall Staff January 23, 1988 

Homeless belong in national light 
Dear Editor: 

In his attempts to clarify the debate on the homeless, Glenn Fogarty writes on Monday, Jan. 25, that "the very na­ture of the present homeless population dictates a need for more than simply some beds and a roof." He goes on to say that "help for the homeless. . . (should be) help that is well-intentioned but more importantly, well-planned and specific." I cannot disagree with these statements. 
But beyond these easy, albeit worthwhile generalities, Fogarty is misinformed about the numbers and the nature of the homeless, about the causes of homelessness and about what is currently being done to help the homeless in the United States. 
First, Fogarty places the number of homeless between "250,000 and 350,000" persons. That figure is presumably taken from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) study in 1984. Soon after the 1984 study, a House subcommittee revealed serious flaws in the study, including deliberately low estimates and incom­plete sampling. A later subcommittee investigation found a cautious number of 1.5 million homeless persons in America. 
Second, Fogarty misrepresents the major dynamic of homelessness. The number of homeless persons in the United States has increased about 600 percent since 1976, due mainly to the rapid increase in the number of home­less families with children, the fastest growing sector of the homeless. Today ther are over 500,000 homeless children in the United States. According to Jonat­hon Kozol in "Rachel and Her Children," three-fourths of all home­less persons in Massachusetts are children and their parents. 
Third, Fogarty says that the root cause of homelessness is "behavioral difficulties" and that the common denominator for nearly all of the home­less is a "varying degree of mental ill­ness." The truth is that about 30 to 40 percent of the homeless population suf­fers from mental illness, but that more than half are economically dislocated. Nearly half of the homeless held jobs in the last five years. 
Furthermore, the main reason for the rise in homelessness is the lack of low­income housing. Half a million low­income housing units are eliminated every year to gentrification, arson and demolition. Add to this the near dou­bling of all rent prices in the ten major cities since 1975, the 66 percent decrease in federal spending on housing since 1981, and changes in the urban economy that exacerbate unemploy­ment for unskilled labor. 
Behavioral difficulties? For a certain sector of the homeless, specifically the mentally ill, participation in the eco­nomy is indeed difficult due to individ­ual problems. But for 60 to 70 percent of the homeless population, structural changes in the urban economy, includ­ing high rent, unemployment, and evic­tion, have a more profound impact on the number of homeless. 
Fourth, Fogarty claims that "funds for such a system are readily available if one looks closely." In fact, federal housing assistance has dropped about 75 percent since 1981, from $33 billion to $8 billion. And more than half of the assistance for the homeless has come from non-profit private foundations, not from public monies. It is clear that "readily available" funds are not ac­cessible. 
Finally, the crucial mistake in Fogarty's article lies in his lack of prescription. Where does he look for so­lutions? He derails homeless advocates for placing homelessness on the politi­cal agenda. Unfortunately for Fogarty, that's exactly where the issue belongs. 
The New York Times said recently "Americans are ready to put housing back on the nation's agenda." Those, like Fogarty, who minimize the prob­lem of homelessness, or the lack of low­income housing, of unemployment in our central cities, only prevent the issue from gaininig attention that it warrants. Our cities have at least 1.5 million homeless people. These people deserve to be a topic of our political debate. 
Ken Kollman Morrissey Hall Volunteer for the Overnight Shelter for the Homeless January 27,19P' 

Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the Day 
"Life is like riding a bicy­cle. You don't fall off un­less you stop pedaling." 
Claude Pepper 
Editorial Board Operations Board

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief...... . ....... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor..... .. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor . . . . .....Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor . . . . ................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
Viewpoint Editor... ............................Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor... . ......................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................Shawn Sextor. the administration of either Institution The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor.... . .................... Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindelf> possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ..................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor... . . . ............. .. . . ..... Jim Carroll is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 


Accent
Thursday, January 28, 1988 
page 9 

A valediction forbidding mourning 
T
his column Is not the column I considered writing. I considered writing about The Observer's coverage of AIDS-awareness in Tuesday's paper. I would have praised The Observer for Its efforts at calling Its readers' attention to the AIDS crisis, and to the need world. I have received hundreds of letters telling me as much. None of them has ever told me, "On the faces of dying smokers, we must see 
the face of Christ." 
The fear of getting AIDS al­most generates a greater panic than the fear of getting lung 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

of educating the campus about the truth of AIDS. Would it be churlish to ask why, In a two­page spread, Tfle Observer didn't make a greater effort to Inform us of the facts about AIDS when the essential warn­Ings can be summarized on a single-sheet handout? If "education Is the only vaccine available," The Observer should get on with the work of educat­Ing us; and this Includes more than a list of phone numbers we might call and seminars we might attend. Let's face it: no forum around here gets as much attention as The Obser­ver. Some Informative columns from writers who know what they are talking about could do a lot to dispel the myths. Two of the toughest facts of life that need to be emphasized are: (I) the sexual revolution, with Its ad libitum pairing off, Is over; (2) the use of condoms could help prevent the spread of disease. There's nothing startling here, nothing arcane or clinical, nothing you haven't heard before. Yet lives could be saved If the sexually permissive would put restraints on themselves. 
We were advised by The Ob­server that the administration of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame must provide information about preventing AIDS. This is true, but Isn't It Ironic? Neither school sponsored the sexual revolution; In fact they did their best to discourage casual sex. Now that the horse Is out of the barn door, they're reminded rather forcefully of their duties as educators to get old Bessie back again, like par­ents called upon by dating teenagers who are now facing a problem. Those kids used to tell their parents that they knew what they were doing. 
I love The Observer staff; I owe them so much. Long­winded as I am myself, I wouldn't dream of accusing them of preaching. Even If I were, preaching Isn't so bad as long as It doesn't turn sen­timental. Does it help, when you're asking for compassion for AIDS victims, to get sen­timental? I read: "In the faces of AIDS victims, we must see the face of Christ." The simple truth Is that we should see the face of any loser as the face of Christ. I'm a smoker. This means that In the eyes of mil­lions of non-smokers, I'm guilty of a fllthy habit that endangers the rest of the 
cancer from the side-stream 
smoke of a cigarette addict. 
AIDS patients are regarded as 
more untouchable than the 
certified untouchables of the 
Hindu caste system. Ostraciz­
ing human beings because 
we're needlessly fearful or ig­
norant is a reprehensible fault 
In a Christian. As a priest. I 
have been warned over and 
over again about the injustice of casting stones--at a wino, a junkie, a loser; there, but for 
the grace of God, go 1: a 
hemophiliac, an IV drug-user, a 
bi-sexual. 

But in our efforts to bend over backward to be fair in our treatment of unfortunates, we 
The simple truth is, we should see the face of any loser as the face of Christ. 
tend to gloss over a dismal, though salutary, piece of awareness. The AIDS illness has spread as a result of an unprecedented orgy of sexual self-indulgence in certain Amer­ican cities where members of a minority life-style gather en masse. It is frequently pointed out that the number of casual, even anonymous, sexual con­tacts made among them in the course of a year numbers in the hundreds, or even in the thousands. 
Experien-~ .stovw~ that a crea­ture's physical well-being is diminished as a result of abuse. Human beings, in their physical make-up, are rather finely calibrated. I can destroy myself by the use, or the over­use, of drugs, alcohol, tobacco, fats, sweets, or any other excess. If I die of lung cancer from smoking. I will not feel ill-used if my friends are warned off by the horrible ex­ample I gave them. Ex-smokers at the point of death have been appearing on television to warn viewers of the consequence of smoking. AIDS-patients, dying. could have a message to leave us as a warning about having sex with the stranger who buys you a drink. 
Some priest friends of mine have died of AIDS. I weep for all of them: for their early deaths, for the loss to the world of their talents and good­ness, for their inability to cope 
with weakness, for their per­sonal tragedies. Sometimes, for a little while, I also feel anger at the scandal they caused and the pain and em­barrassment they brought their families, because I believe they had the grace to do better. But finally, I learn some Jesson from them, even if it's a gen­eral lesson like "No man Is an island." I have no problem in seeing any of their faces as the face of Christ; but not as Christ, the sinless victim. They are no worse than any other sinners; the forgiveness of sin­ners is what Christianity is all about; and one of us does not cast stones at the other. But the problem in the Church today is that sinners don't ask to be forgiven; they insist on being white-washed. If they destroy themselves by folly, they regard themselves as more sinned against than sin­ning. 
The terrible truth is--if I can believe what I read--some AIDS patients learn nothing from their experiences. Their only regret is that their lives can't continue in the same carefree way, as though there were no consequences to be faced as a result of their, or my own, or any man's, unabridged hedonism. Even if I weren't a Catholic, I shouldn't buy their point of view. I don't wish to see them racked by guilt as they face the end. But couldn't they have the kind of sorrow a smoker has when he's cough­ing his lungs out, realizing that the troubles he has have been brought on himself? 
This, <:o., I have mentioned, is part of the column I didn't write; but if I had written it. I would have moralized even more. What stopped me from writing it? It was the fear of sounding like Jimmy the Greek. Maybe, in spite of myself, I sound as ignorant or insensitive as Jimmy the Greek; if so, I'm sorry. All I have ever wanted to do is to warn people, especially the young. 
about hurting themselves. Now 
that the campus Is serious about dealing with the AIDS crisis, I don't want to see you sugar-coat ugliness with sen­timentality. 
Some of you, hating what I say, will accuse me of minority­bashing. though that's far from my intention. Others, hating the minority, will use any old stigma to beat up the sick and dying. Perhaps the rest of you will forgive me for sounding like Jimmy the Greek. and believe that I'm telling the truth when I say it means the world to me to be understood as trying to be fair. 
But, in dealing with AIDS patients, I don't want to be lim­Ited to a valediction that prohibits mourning. Why waste the truth about a sad death? "Don't cry for me, Argentina" doesn't make much of a fu­neral anthem. 

Revue Previews 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Christine Walsh Photos by John Studebaker 
"I used to live In Keenan, and I'm definitely going to the Revue and the party. Former residents get tickets automatically. I think It's poJ')ular because people like to make fun of the University. Some • of the stuff you see on stage Is pretty raw, and was originally cut from the skits, but It shows up anyway. Ifother dorms tried to do a Revue, It just wouldn't work." 
Jerry Ora{ Senior 




"I would have liked to go to the Revue, but I didn't feel like lining up for tickets. It's Interesting. In a sense, that what you do and see every day Is put on stage and exaggerated, which Is what makes the Revue funny. You can see yourself In those situations and laugh." 
Mazlin Mohammad Junior 
I 

! \ 
"I'm not interested In going. I'm sure a lot of It is good fun, but It would bother me Ifthere were too many cut-downs. One of my friends said that she was tired of hearing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's being cut down over and over again, and she's not going back for more." 
Anne Marie Wolf Junior 

"I wasn't able to get tickets. I've never been to it, so I have no idea why it's so popular. I'd like to go sometime, though." 
f'lorentine Hoelker f'reshman 

''I'm going to the Revue Friday night. Someone gave me an extra ticket. I guess you have to have connections to get a ticket. I'm a freshman, and I'm going because I heard Itwas one ofthe big things at Notre Dame, and I have a lot of friends at Keenan. I think It's popular because It's put on by stu­dents." 
Rita Robinett freshman 


"I'm in the Revue. I sometimes wonder why it's so popular. I guess It's because this Is such a boring time of year. It's a lot of work for the people involved. At auditions, you don't think any of the stuff Is funny, but for some reason on Thursday night, first show, It all comes together. every year, people seem to ef\loy It more and more." 
Charley Buckley Senior 

page 10 The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1988 
Phoenix Open

Sports Briefs · · begins today 
Varsity men's crew will have a meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Contact Mike Hammett if you are unable to attend. -The Observer 
The O.C. Hockey team plays St. Ed's tonight at 
10:30 p.m. -The Observer 

The Racquetball Club will be organizing spring leagues. Please call Dave (1425) or Mark (1422) before tomorrow to sign up. All levels of players are welcome. -The Observer 
The men's volleyball team will host the Second Annual Rich O'Leary Classic this weekend. In the opening round Friday night, Michigan plays Bowling Green at 6 
p.m. and Notre Dame takes on Miami at 8 p.m. The con­solation game will be held at noon Saturday and the cham­pionship follows at 2 p.m. All games are at the JACC Pit. 
-The Observer 

Men's IH basketball games scheduled for Sunday, Jan. 31, have been canceled. Call NVA at 239-6100 for new dates and times. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramural basketball. Call 5548 for more information. -The Observer 
The NVA aerobics regular 4 p.m. Friday class will be held. There also will be a class from 10-11:30 p.m. in gym 2 at the Late Night Olympics. A $1 donation to Special Olympics is required. -The Observer 
An advanced conditioning class will be offered to all students from Feb. 1 to March 12. The sessions will be on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday afternoons from _5-6 p.m: in the Loftus Sports Facility. A physical exammabon Is recommended. -The Observer 
The women's lacrosse team needs more players. All levels of experience are welcome. Call Heidi (3778) for more information. -The Observer 
A Gymnastics Invitational will be held at SMC Saturday, Jan. 30, at 1 p.m. Practice for club members is mandatory for the week. Monday's practice is at 4:30p.m., Tuesday through Friday practices are from 4-6 p.m. -The Observer l 
Anyone interested in forming a women's rugby team, please contact Lauren (3560), Cathy (4067) or Sarah (4039). No experience necessary. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in becoming a student athletic trainer shoul_d conta~t Jim R':lss, JACC training room, as soon as possible for mformabon and application. Travel and benefits are available. Students must have discipline and be hard working in nature. -The Observer 
~po~ts Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Fnday m The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Associated Press 

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -The perception, Bob Tway said, is that he had a bad year in 1987. 
"That's not right. It wasn't a bad year. It just wasn't a great one," Tway said before a prac­tice round for the $650,000 Phoenix Open golf tournament which begins Thursday. 
"People think I had a bad year because I didn't live up to their expectations. I can't let myself be concerned with that. Because of the year I had in 1986, their expectations may have been too high," he said. 
In 1986, Tway won the PGA national championship and three other titles. He just missed the money-winning title with $652,780. He was the PGA player of the Year. 
Last year, he did not win a tournament. He dropped from second to 47th on the money­winning list. 
Tway is in a 144-man field in­volved in the chase for a $117,000 first prize. 
n.'*-"rNotre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, ec:cept. claaslfled ~!Nng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The~ Selnt r.t.ry'a office, located on the third floor of ~Coltge Center, ec:cepta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next4ay claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
Classifieds be prepaid, either In penson or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cent. per five ct\anctera per~­
FOR RENT 
OFURNfSHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288­09551 255-3684 
Apartment in NO Apts. Looking for female to share expenses wrth 3 others until May. Call Cathi at 3n3. 
HOUSE FOR RENT, AVAILABLE IM­MEDIATELY, NEAR CAMPUS. 2BEDR, 2 BATH. 272-6306 
WANTED 
HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $15,000-$68,000. Call (602) 838-8885, Ext. 6262. 
CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL­LEY FOR APPLICATION (616) 244­5635. 
SUMMER JOB INTERVIEWS: Average earnings $3,100. Gain valuable experi­ence in advertising, sales, and public re­lations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame Telephone Directory. T111vef Opportunities. Expense peld l111lnlng program In Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusl..tlc, goal­oriented students for challenging, well-peylng summer job. Sign up for lntervl-s with Unlve1111ty Directories at Career & Placement Services, Lower Lavel Hesburgh Ubrary by Jan­uary 29. 
Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Calf 1108 evenings. 
RIDE NEEDED TO fU£LOOMINGTON 1·29 CALL PETE 4340 
Female roommale needed for 1988-89. House on Hammond Place. For more details, call 283-4510 at any time. 
WAITRESSESWAfTERS NEEDED­FRANCESCO E FAMIGLIA, Italian Res­taurant. Must have own lranspo. CaiVApply within after 4pm (256-1444). 
I really NEED a ride to I.UIBioomington this weekend! Will pay expensese. Call Paul at £1688. 
WANTED: HOCKEY PLAYER WITH GOOD FUNDAMENTALS TO TEACH SAME TO OLD ROOKIE. WILL PAY WELL. CALL AFTER 6 PM. GARY 272­7476. 
Wanted: A tutor for high school chemistry student. Once a week on campus. Calf Linda Sumner if interested £239-5619 
Earn $&tlr! MATEO'S SUBS needs drivers! If interested in big $$$, calf 271-0SUB 
MAID NEEDED: $$$$$BIG BUCKS$$$$$ $$$$$BIG BUCKS$$$$$ We need a hard worker with the willing­ness to overlook a little filth. It looks worse th~, it is. A!!!! ta'<es is 4-5 '1'.'~r: ;:~ wAAk Fringe benefits are available. We will pro­vide the transportation. Only serious in­quires only I Experience preferred. Please contact Sam or Ken at 234-6727. 
NOTICES 

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIG.H; 277-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

································································ 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buyused books at Pandoras. BOB Howard ( 1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30 
TYPING SERVICE 259-2334 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 

SEND YOUR VALENTINE SOME HAND-DIPPED CHOCOLATES DELIVERED TO YOUR DESIRED DORM. CALL 287-6073 FOR DETAILS. 
................................. .............................
~ 

"Children of Apartheid", Jan.2B, 7:30PM Center for Social Concerns. 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST: GREY AND YELLOW OBER­MEYER SKI JACKET CONTAINING BROWN WALLET IF FOUND CALL TRENT AT 1462 
································································ 
ELVIS TAPE FOUND ON FRI. OUTSIDE SO. DINING HALL. CALL 232-4907 TO CLAIM THE KING'S TUNES. 
LOST ITALIAN GOLD NECKLACE SOMETIME SATURDAY ON NORTH QUAD OR THE ACC .PLEASE CALL AMY AT 2948 IF FOUND I 
i:os:r;·--;;RioA'v···Niai:rr···ii.;:--·;;"ENiofl 
BAR One long charcoal grey overcoat was picked up from the coat room at Senior Bar on Friday nite Please return to Kevin at 343 Dillon Hall or call X3609. I'm even offering a reward. No questions asked. I really need the coat since it is the only one I own. I'M FREEZINGII! HELP!! I 
LOST: NO woman's class ring. If found please call 283-1363. 
LOST: GOLD ID BRACELET. CALL BERNADETTE 283-2795. 
FOUND: GLASSES IN BLUE CASE BE­TWEEN ART & COMMERCE BLDG. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFOR­TUNE. 
LOST: A brown cashmere scar!, last Friday at Snite 7:30 film. Call Mike £1537 
LOST: A silver chain and cross in the AAC P.I.T. on Jan. 21. If found please contact Chris al x1175. Thanks. 
LOST: A GOLD COLORED PEACE SYMBOL EARRING. IT'S A CHEAP PIECE OF METAL, BUT I REALLY LIKED IT. PLEASE CALL K'.REN AT 4500. THANKS! 
LOST --earmuffs, white rabbit fur. MY EARS ARE COLDIII Probably lost in Com!)'Math Bldg. Call Linda at 2565 if 
~cuy1d. 
AFTER SCHOOL CHILDCARE WANTED for faculty member's children, 9 & 12 easy job, study time. 2 afternoons, person with car preferred Call 287-7400 or 239-6226 
FOR SALE 
PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELL­ING IRISH PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELLING IRISH PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS 
Racy Lange ZR Ski Boots size 11 --$125. Call 283-3458 or 288-3453. 
1971 Mustang. Fully restored. 351 Cleveland. 'Automatic, AMFM cassette, 2-dr. hdtp. Luxury car. Call 586-2482 after 5 pm. 
TICKETS 
INXXS INXXS need 2 tix for chi town or any area show.plz call 2n-84 75.aft.8pm.thanx. 
N'iiEoE·i:i:·~j;--i~·;;·uci:A·ii:t:~~i·"G'A·~·~~r 
famify!f call Kris-3099 PLEASE! 
;:;~;~i~--~;;;;;i;;;i·;~~--c;~;;~iti~--(i;-;;,~·'$$$ 
Call £1370 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
s~ii·-~id ..i~;;··;~;··m:--:p·~~;;;,~~--~808 
Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30. Also save $ on used books. 
o'ii.Y1o.NA............................................... 
DAYTONA DAYTONA SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA-ROUND TRIP,? NIGHTS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS 3382 NOW! 
············································· 
Female looking for roommat~~-~~·;;;~~~ off campus. Call Tina 4311. 
ATTN: ST. MARY'S STUDENTS Yogi's Yogurt will deliver on Tues. & Thurs. between 7 & 9 pm. Call 2n­4337. 
Fi~~i·o~;;;~~d.......................................... 
No late phone calls 
No mystery SYR dates 
No rude SMC jokes AU Nappers 
SEE DANNO DRINK 
SEE DANNO WALK 
SEE DANNO CAME CRASHING DOWN 
DON'T BE LIKE DANNO 
JUST SAY NO! 
································································ 

Coke: Red, White, and You 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB 
Hey, Vol Chicks! 
Richard 'Dick' Reuter has been pumping the iron and his muscles are just bulging! He's even been doing that exercise with the wet rag. 
PAINTER CAPS •••••••••••• PAINTER CAPS •••••••••••• BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS..BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS... TO BUY YOUR PAINTER CAPS, STOP BY 403 BADIN OR CALL 2728 ............ PAINTER 
CAPS 

One Calorie Diet Coke 
MALE VOCALIST WANTED for t:I&R band. Tenor preferred. Call Ell 271-0804, or Matt 271-0604. 
Save time and energy. Stop caring now. 
I can't exist. I will surely miss, your tender kiss. Then on the other hand, I'll save two hours each night kissing you goodby. And I might get some sleep. 
ANYONE going to (or passing through) YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO this weekend?? I need a ride and will share expenses. Call X1265 
To the Duke of the Swim Team: Swim very large one, swim like the windl 
AJAX...AAJAX...AAAJAX... 
To Happy-Psycho Pat: owww wo a oh, owwwwwww wo a oh!!! 
To the Notre Dame Swim Team: BEAT THE BONNIES!I!! 
RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING SUN 31, 7:30 LaFortune Theatre ALL WELCOME! 
BEACH PARTY '68 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL Your official N.D. hotel for Spring Break '88. Make reservations now for best rooms. Only $14!}j:lerson (4-tm.) for 8 days, 7 nights of Florida fun. Look around campus for posters and flyers with more Sunsational details. Call 1-800-ENJOY­US. 
Need 3 Thurs. Keenan Review Tix -will trade 3 Sat. tix for themf Call £2494 
CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII 
An experience you'll never forget. 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that spe­cial guy the best gift of all -!yourself -fn a Glamour Port1111t by Joe Ringer. Cell lor details and free brochure. 287­0613. 
Your Attention Please Hell has a new phone system 233 Inc. apologizes for any inconveni­
ence 
Apartment for rent at Campus View! For info call Dianna at 283-2676 If you have 1 or 2 tix for the Keenan Revue Fri. or Sat. and want to trade for Thur: call Cathy 3822 
JAZZ CLASSES .... JAZZ CLASSES AT THEODORE'S SUNDAYS 7-8 8-9p.m. $6 REMAINDER OF THE MONTH(2 CLASSES) 
STUDENT ART FORUM MEETING THURS 5PM O'SHAG GALLERY AT SNITE MEMBERS: BRING T-SHIRTS AND$$ 
CHRIS 'CRITTER' KVOCHAK 
Why do they call you 'Critter'? Is it be­cause you have a . 
DESPERATE FOR A RIDE 2 BALL STATE THIS FRI. WILL SHARE $­SCALL LIZ £4-5262 
3,420 ON FEB. 2, IT GOES DOWN. WHAT'S IT MEAN ? BE AT THE JOCE CENTER THAT NIGHT AND FIND OUT 
RIDERS NEEDED FOR MARQUETTE TRIP THIS WEEKEND 2n-0655 
GET INVOLVED WITH CKI MEMBERSHIP RECEPTION 6 P.M. THURSDAY 
esc 
GET INVOLVED WITH CKI 
THE OUIJA TOLD ME THAT I AM LIVING WITH LINDA BLAIRIII HELP! II!IIIII 
The sun is shining on PEBBLE BEACH. It must be an excellent day for an exorcism--Wouldn't you agree David??? Long live the OUIJAIIIflllll 
JR. SKfFEST 68 
Who could forget... THE WISK ?1?1 
We have IT and we're anxious to put rt to use I Interested parties direct you calls to the PW chicks. 
Have a Coke and a DEADLY smile. 
BOYCOTI COCA-COLA! 
BEAT BONAVENTURE 
IRISH SWIMMING VS St.Bonaventure Sat. at 2pm! Be there to see the war in the water. 
JIM "WANNA BE CYRANO" WINKLER IT HAS COME TO OUR ATTENTION THAT YOUR NOSE IS NOT YOUR NOSE BY NATURE BUT AN IMITATION OF THAT WHICH YOU HAVE ONLY DREAMT OF... YOU HAVE DECEIVED US... A FRAUD BY ANY OTHER NOSE IS STILL A FRAUD !I!! YOUR FLAG IS NOT NEEDED ANYMORE!!! 
BRING ON BOOGER...WE WILL PICK HIS NOSE OVER ANY OTHER!!! ••••••PEBBLE BEAcw·•••• 
Thanks for the backrubl (Not to subtle,eh Nick?) 
ELIZABETH 'LIZ-DOG' MARTUCCI 
You are no longer safe! This is, as they say, the beginning of the endl Oh yah, have a nice weekend. I know 1 will. 
-if you don't know by now .. 
Going to (or near) DETROIT or FLINT this weekend?!? I need a ride--will share expenses! Bridget-2525. 
Lady Di, this one is for you. Smile, its a brand new day. 
The countdown has begun! Mary Feliz's birthday is only three shopping days away. If you are one of the few people on campus she has not told, please begin to prepare for this historic event! 
Dennis, John, and Fritz Heard it through the grapevine that you're appearing in the Keenan Revue tonight. BREAK A LEG III Your favorite Farleyites of 209, 213, and 225 
VAT CHU VANT! VAT CHU VANT! VAT CHU VANT! 
Top 1 0 Reasons ALF Is More Special Than You: 
10. ALF goes to a university, not a col­lege. 
9. ALF doesn't steal. 
8. ALF is welcome here, you're not. 7 ALF weighs less than 200 pounds. 
6. It takes more than one beer to gel ALF drunk. 
5. ALF dOesn't have to go out in groups. 
4. ALF knows when to shut up. 
3. ALF can French kiss. 
2. People laugh with ALF, not at him. 
1. ALF is supposed to have hair on his face. ...ALF isn't jealous of you, why are you of him? 
Could you pass the mayo, please? 
VARSITY ATHLETES Get your dates NOW for the VARSITY ATHLETES BALL 13 Feb. JACC Concourse for info call 2811 
Affluent Nice Gammon Excellent Lovely 
Do you believe in heaven above? 
Michelle, 

Your record stands a\ 3-8. You taught 
your student too well. I'm still waiting for 
my surprise. Go91<:reep 
TO THE BLONDE GIRL WEARING THE OLIVE-GREEN SWEATER SKATING AT NOON 1127--1 WANTED TO MEET YOU BUT YOU LEFT EARLY. THE GUY IN THE PURPLE SWEATER. 
SPRING BREAK 
BAHAMA PARTY '68 
CHARTER 8-MAN BOATS TO BIMINI 
ISLAND. FOR MORE INFO CALL 
WILLIE 234-8382 

HUMINA HUMINA HUMINA 
ST BONY'S SWIMMERS ARE 
SCUMINA 
COME SEE THE IRISH SMOKE ST. 
BONAVENTURE AT THE JACC­
SATURDAY 
ALF: DEAD. 

-~ ~-­
Thursday,Janu~a~~~2=8~·~1~98=8~---------------------------------T_h~e~O~bs~e~N~e~r________________________________________________~pa~gLe___11 
College basketball roundup II' 
Vandy rolls past Kentucky 
Indiana, 10-6 overall and 2-4 with 9:45 remaining. Indiana
Associated Press 
in the Big Ten, trailed by as then hit its next three shots 
many as seven points early in from the field -one each by Gar­NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Scott the game and by three points rett, Hillman and Jones -to takeDraud scored 22 points, 18 on midway through the second a 59-54 lead.
3-point goals, to lead Vander­half. The victory put an end tobilt to an 83-66 Southeastern a two-game Big Ten losing Oklahoma 109, Iowa St. 
Conference victory over Ken­
streak. 86
tucky Wednesday night. The victory snapped a 13­Keith Smart, who hit the win­
game Vanderbilt losing streak NORMAN, Okla.-Harvey
ning field goal in last year's na­
to Kentucky and allowed the Grant scored 30 points and
tional championship game, did 
Commodores to improve to 12-4 grabbed 12 rebounds Wednes­
not play until the finall: 39 and
for the season and 5-3 in SEC. day night as lOth-ranked Okla­
was scoreless. Forward Rick
Kentucky, who last lost to homa sprinted to a 109-86 Big
Calloway, a three-year starter, 
Vandy in the 1981 SEC tourna­Eight victory over No. 12 Iowa
did not play at all.
ment in Birmingham, Ala., fell State.
Joe Hillman added 13 pointsto 13-3 overall and 6-3 in the and Jay Edwards 11 for the In other college basketball SEC.The last time the Wildcats Hoosiers, who were 18 of 18 at action Wednesday, Geor­lost to Vanderbilt in Nashville the free-throw line. getown erased Boston College
was in 1979. 
Garrett was 10 of 10 at the 58-36, Lafayette edged Lehigh The Commodores, who con­free-throw line, while Jones, a 66-64, St. John's scalped Vil­nected on 11 3-point shots freshman who was averaging lanova 60-55, Florida A&Mduring the game, outscored the 4.5 points a game, hit 9 of 10 rattled South Carolina State 85­Wildcats 20-8 in the final 8:05 field goal attempts. 78, Georgia trounced Ole Missof the game to seal the victory. 
Jerry Francis had 20 points 86-70, Virginia Tech gobbledRex Chapman topped Ken­and Jay Burson 19 for Ohio Virginia 66-64, Auburn slapped tucky's scorers with 18 points. 
State, 10-6 and 3-3, which had Alabama 84-74, Florida topped a three-game Big Ten winning LSU 61-50, Tennessee toppled i t
Indiana 75, Ohio St. 71 !'
streak end. Mississippi State 63-48, DePaul 
...... ­
crushed Marquette 81-66, Min­_..,; "-~-,.
.... .

Indiana, which had been
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Dean nesota defeated Michigan State ---_,.,..,_.. -­
shooting 45 percent from the
Garrett scored 22 points and 59-56, North Carolina State
field in the Big Ten, hit 27 of 51 "" 
Lyndon Jones 21 as Indiana stopped Maryland 83-81, Miami The Observer I Jim Carroll 
shots for 53 percent. Ohio State
used a revised lineup to beat blew past Providence 83-77, Dean Garrett (22) and the Indiana Hoosiers put their Big 10 slump 
was 25 of 58 for 43 percent.
Ohio State 75-71 in a Big Ten Syracuse whipped Seton Hall on hold Wednesday night with a 75-71 win over Ohio State. Rob 
Conference game Wednesday Ohio ::,cate took its last lead 87-66 and Nebraska tipped Lock's Kentucky Wildcats did not have quite as much luck, getting 
night. at 54-53 on a Francis hook shot Kansas 70-68. trounced by Vanderbilt 83-66 In a Southeastern Conference show­down. 
r.._...---·...-e-·--------.._..------~ 
ing. We're not going to win if game. That's a mere one per­t Applications for Theodore's l Irish we don't get down and scrap cent above their mark for the 
with teams." season. Irish head coach Dig­
continued from page 16

I Student Managers for the I ger Phelps wasn't thrilled at
Butler's shooting Tuckered raising that mark. 
Dame is big and strong up front out in the second half, as it hit 
1 1988-1989 school year will be I -but I just didn't see the effort, only 5-of-19 field goal attempts especially in the second half. (26 percent). But the Bulldogs, "We did a lousy job of taking 
t available in the Student 
"I told our guys after the the best free-throw shooting away one of their biggest weap­
I 
game that there isn't a single team in the country, connected ons-free throws," said Phelps. player in the Notre Dame on 20-of-23 from the stripe in "But overall, I thought we 
t Activities Office 

after Feb. 5. They must 
locker room saying, 'Wow, we the second half (including 10-played a good game. I mean, really had to work hard to win of-10 from Tucker), and shot we shot 72 percent in the first 
.____~J!!~~EJ!!.l>x If~~_?~~ that game'. That's disappoint-21-of-25 (84 percent) for the half and only led by five. We thought if we stayed aggressive • • in the second half we could •• •• rattle them. I give a lot of credit• • to our defense in the second half, and to Joe Frederick,
~ Happy 19th Birthday 
~ 
Kevin Ellery and Tim Singleton, who all helped turn
MAD SCIENTIST 
that seven-point deficit into a f~ye-point halftime lead." 
CAN YOU BELIEVE 


"Sami"
SHE TURNED 19? Sophomore Keith Robinson also hit two big shots during
DOESN'T SHE LOOK 
that stretch and turned in a
LIKE FUN? GIVE 
solid overall performance. The HER A CALL 6-9 forward scored 14 points and grabbed five rebounds in
We love you very much
284-5272 
only 22 minutes. Robinson is beginning to feel very comfort­able with Phelps' system ana considers this game a step in
Mom, Dad & Suha 
·············································' 


BEER 



CITY-WIDE LIQUORS WINE
Melatar Brau 24 cans $4.99 Lite 24 cans $7.99 Old Style 24 cans $7.99 
3825 N. Grape Rd. 
8usch '24 cans $6.99 Carlo Roesl 4 liter $4.99 8udwelaer 24 cans $8.57 Tosti Rupberry 750 ml $2.~ 8udwelser light 24 cans $8.57 Tosti Peach 750ml $2.39

Mish, Ind. 

Miller's 24 bottles $7.99 Matilda Bay 4-pack $2.99 Little Kings (7oz.) 24 cans $5.39 Hours: Miller's Draft 24 cans $7.99 
Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 

fRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE OFF EDISON RD.
272-2274 
QUARTS 
LIQUOR

8ud 12 quarts $10.99 8ud Light 12 quarts $10.99 8uach 12 quarts $ 8.99 
Old Style 12 quarts $ 9.99 1.71!1 liters $7.99 1.7l!lllters $7.99 1.7l!lllters $9.99 
J 
1.71!11lters $9.99

LONGNECKS 

1.71!1 liters $10.99 750ml $8.99 
...........
8udwelser Light 24 bottles $7.99 

-----------------CALLfOR SYR PARTits 

---------------------~­
page 12 
Irish open varied in first match with 

By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
It is often said that variety is the spice of life. If this is indeed the case, then the Notre Dame women's tennis team looks to enjoy the zesty flavor imparted by its spring schedule. 
For starters, the Irish kick off their dual match season Friday through Sunday at the Yale Quadrangular in New Haven, Connecticut. 
Other teams participating in the Quadrangular include Yale, Brown and Wake Forest. The inclusion of Yale and Brown marks the first time the Irish have faced Ivy League competition. 
"They have a lot of depth in 

their lineup," said Irish coach 
Michele Gelfman. "They play 
excellent all-court games and 
are consistent baseline 
players." 
Ivy League competition is 

only part of a unique schedule 
the Irish plan to tackle this 
spring. In a spring break trip 


Elway wins an admirer in Starr 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind.-Bart Starr, the most valuable player in the first two Super Bowls, is impressed with quarterback John Elway of the Denver Broncos. 
Elway, whose National Foot­ball League team will take on the Washington Redskins in Super Bowl XXII in San Diego on Sunday, is a careful or­chestrator of a rhythm passing game, fundamentally strong, disciplined and a master tech­nician, Starr said. 
"You combine all that with the ability to sprint away from defenders," he said during an appearance in Evansville. "There's such pressure on the defense it's hard to describe." 
When Starr led the Green Bay Packers to a 35-10 victory over the Kansas City Chiefs on Jan. 15, 1967, the contest was called the World Championship Game. About 30,000 seats in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum were empty. 
The showdown between the NFL and AFL champions wasn't called the Super Bowl until the next year, when the Packers defeated the Oakland Raiders 33-14. But Starr wasn't 
................................................................. 
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and w1sh her a happy one. By the way Laura, we do expect to see you danc1ng on pool tables tonight. 

to the University of Nevada­Las Vegas, Notre Dame will play Cal-State Northridge, Colorado-Boulder, UNLV, Ala­bama, Princeton and Utah. Add this to the traditional diet of Midwestern schools from the Big 10 (Michigan, Michigan State, Ohio State, Northwes­tern, Wisconsin) and Mid­American Conference (Toledo, Eastern Michigan, Western Michigan, Miami of Ohio) and you get an idea of the variety on this year's schedule. 
The Quadrangular follows the standard dual match for­mat, which consists of six singles and three doubles com­petitions per match. Gelfman plans to concentrate more on singles this week. Last week's practices were devoted almost exclusively to doubles play in preparation for the Gopher Doubles Invitational. 
The women emerged from last week's Gopher Invitational with three solid doubles teams. The dynamic duo of freshman 

schedule an Ivy 
Michelle Dasso comprise Notre Dame's top doubles combina­tion. 
Gelfman chose to postpone a challenge match between the tandems of Stephanie Tolstedt­Kim Pacella and Alice Lohrer­Natalie Illig. Gelfman cited "a number of academic commit­ments" which the women were expected to fullfill as the rea­son for the delay. 
The challenge match will be played after the team returns from this weekend's tourna­ment. 
Overshadowed by the out­break of these new doubles pairings at last week's Gopher Invitational was the return of Lohrer to the lineup. An injury suffered during the fall cam­paign kept her sidelined for 
much of the season. 

''Alice came back with flying colors," enthused Gelfman. "She's still not 100 percent yet, but probably. around 80 per­cent. She should be back to nor­mal by mid-February. That 
CeCe Cahill and senior captain will be a good indicator." 
surprised the cham~.nonship quickly became a national in­stitution. 
"Even in those early years, I detected that the game was something very special,'' he said. "I knew it was a unique happening. I'm proud to have been a part of it." 
Starr talked to reporters Tuesday before an address to the Evansville Association of Sports Enthusiasts. He is promoting his recently released autobiography, "Starr," written with Murray Olderman. 
The three-time NFL passing leader has watched nearly every Denver home game the last two years and thinks the Broncos are determined to atone for their 39-20 loss to the New York Giants in last year's Super Bowl. 
"1 think they're on a mission 
this year," he said. "It will take 
a superb effort from the 
Redskins to derail the train." 
Starr, who was elected to the 
Professional Football Hall of 
Fame in 1977, had a 53-77-3 
record in nine years as head 
coach of the Packers. 
In an era of domed stadiums 
and artificial turf, he remem­
bers a 1-yard sneak for the 
game-winning touchdown 
against the Dallas Cowboys at 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Lambeau Field m 1007 wnen 
With the Notre Dame women's tennis team opening Its spring dual
the temperature was 16-below. 
match season this weekend, sophomore Alice Lohrer has returned 
Starr prefers natural grass and 
to action. Lohrer was out with an injury for much of the fall season.
outdoor football, but doesn't criticize the innovations. 
"Now it becomes part of the game, adjusting to the artifi­cial turf and unique noise levels," he said. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving NotreHe also doesn't object to NFL Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications forrules changes in the late 1970s 
the following position:
that gave the offense more freedom. "The general intent is very good," he said. "It gave in­
Accounts Receivable 
creased exposure for the pass and I see nothing wrong with 
Clerk 
it. It's properly accepted as progress." Starr is affiliated with a 
For further information contact
group hoping to gain an expan­sion franchise in Phoenix, and 
John Oxrider 
had no comment regarding the 
at The Observer (239-5303)
move to that city by the St. Louis Cardinals, which is pend-r------------------------.. 
ing NFL approval. 

SUpER
Starr had praise for the phi­losophy espoused by late coach Vince Lombardi, who stressed 





s u pER

individual sacrifice for the sakeoftheteam. ~--------~~~~~~ 
"Everyone subordinated 
suNDAY1 1 
their own individual desires and egos to win and keep on winning," he said. "We won 
Watch the super bowl 
more championships in a shorter span than any team has 
on one of three big screens 
won." 

$2.00 includes drinks,pizza, chips, 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
popcorn, and build your own
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
SUPER BOWL SUNDAE.
LaFortune. 
r-A'pPJfCations-·ror-stuD'Errr-iTNToN-BOARD----1 t COMMISSIONER POSITIONS for 1988-89 school f t year f 
t are available in the Secretary's office, 2nd floor, t t LaFortune. t t Applications are due on Feb. 1 by 4:00 p.m. and are t for the following positions: 
~ BOARD MANAGER MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSIONER ' & CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSIONER IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSIONER l ' SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSIONER PUBLICITY COMMISSIONER ' t MOVIE COMMISSIONER CONTROLLER t 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSIONER BUSINESS AUDITOR · 
~ SERVICES COMMISSIONER ~ ~-t 
t . . &J,r'!', a"-fi."J t
Stop by the SUB office or call 239-7757 for more m{ormat10nt There is a SUBstitution for boredom on this campus. This is your chance i. '\ ~.. f t to get lnvolvedl \..JUl ~~" I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~.-.~~~~~ 
open from 12:00 until after the game. 
111111111111 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
1111111111 

featuring the Grateful Dead, Jimi Hendrix, Joan Baez, and many more. 
Playing Thursday night,9:30 at Theodore's free of charge. The movie starts at 9:30. 
D. J. 's and dancing after the movie. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 11111111111 
1111111111 1 


Relax,enjoy the game, leave the cooking to us. Get the Best Pizza at the best price. 
Godfather's Pizza! 
Clip These Coupons and SAVE 
•-----•COUPON•----­
1 I
I SUPER "BIG V" SPECIAL I I Get 2 Extra Large 16 Inch Pizzas I 

1 $1~ I
1 
tour topper (beef, pepperoni, onion, and green pepper) Wllh I 
1 
and 1 pORroni Coupan 
1

I your choice of any ~ I 
2 extra large single • topping pizzas 
I 1 
I Eat-in, carry-out or deliveryEx ires Feb. 2S, 1988 price doP.s not inr.lude tax or delivery I 
• P Phone 2n-saao _ 
·-------------­
~-----•COUPON•------.

I SUPER SPECIAL I 
I $250 OFF Any Large Pizza I
1 with coupon 1 
I $175 OFF Any Medium Pizza I
1 with coupon 1 
1$1 00 OFF Any Small Pizza !
1 witt; coupon~
Eat-In, carry-out or delivery price does not include '




,____________ 
~­

I Expires Feb. 28, 1988 tax or delivery 1• 
------~---~~--~ ­
T1hursday, January 28, 1988 
The Observer 

page 13 
Nowosielski sparks fencers 
Depth is key for Irish in match with rival Wayne State 
not only an athlete. His high "He's an outstanding
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
school credentials are excel­sabreman, one who is destined 
Sports Writer 
lent." to be an All-American caliber 
Leszek Nowosielski and the Nowosielski was born in fencer, even as a freshman," rest of the fencing team will Montreal, Canada, and raised says DeCicco. have their hands full as they in ottawa, where he learned compete this weekend, travel­how to fence in 1980. He was His Canadian fencing ing to Wayne State on Friday 
reached a peak in 1987 when he and to a six-school meet in won the Canadian Junior Na­Dearborn, Michigan, on Satur­tional Championships, which day. ensured him a spot in the Junior 
The undefeated Irish will World Championships, held face one of their toughest rivals this year at Notre Dame. Only in Wayne State. Competition in three fencers from each Saturday's meet includes country are invited to compete. Chicago, Cleveland State, Detroit, Eastern Michigan and Nowosielski has traveled to Tri-State. • • faraway places to fence, in­
"We are going to face a very cluding Madrid, Spain, where tough Wayne State team," says the best junior fencers in the Irish coach Mike DeCicco. world assembled for the Junior "They have added three very \ World Cup. He finished 34th out 
talented European fencers, one of 90 contestants in the foilist and two epeeists, but ~,···J~ worldwide competition. lack our depth. "If he's willing to work hard, 
Leszek Nowslelskl
"We'll need to perform well he may be a future National in sabre and foil to defeat them, taught at Les Stadasissins Champion," says DeCicco. but I think we're ready. This (French for "The Assassins"), Nowosielski is thinking the will be quite a test for our a French fencing club that is same thing. young fencers." regarded as one of the tops in "We've got a pretty strong
One young fencer is Leszek Canada. team," he says, "And I'd like Nowosielski, a freshman In Canada, Nowosielski our team to place at least third sabreman, who has had his received the honor of Junior in the NCAAs, if not first. share of testing in the past. Champion fencer in Ontario for "I'd also like to win the N a­
"He came to us as a highly six out of the last eight years. tional Championship individu­experienced fencer from In the two years that he did not ally, if not this year then the Canada," said DeCicco. "He's win the title, he did not fence. next." 

JamereJackson(40)drllvespastaButlerdefeT~~~b~~;~~B~:~;:o Ferdl·nand nam·ed Horse of Year 
points In Notre Dame's win over Butler on Wednesday night. Pete Sklko discusses the Irish win on page 16. 
Associated Press finished one-two in voting by the TRA balloting would havethe writers and trackmen of the made Theatrical Horse of the NEW YORK -Ferdinand, Daily Racing Form and racing Year. 
who beat Alysheba in a battle secretaries from member of Kentucky Derby winners in tracks of the Thoroughbred Theatrical's margin over the $3 million Breeders' Cup Racing Associations. Theatri­Ferdinand in the NTWA voting 
Classic, was named 1987 Horse cal, a grass specialist, beat was 21-19. Alysheba finished 


SUPER BOWL 
8Pecitl~B 
of the Year on Wednesday. Ferdinand in voting by the Na­third in the voting of all three 
Theatrical finished second in tional Turf Writers Assocation. groups. Java Gold, Manila, the voting, which was as close Ferdinand beat Theatrical Groovy and Miesque also as Ferdinand's nose victory in 30-15 in the Daily Racing Form recei·1ed votes. the Classic last fall. voting, but only 8-7 in the TRA Earlier this month, Fer­
Ferdinand and Theatrical balloting. A one-vote switch in dinand won the Eclipse Award as best handicap horse of 1987. Theatrical was voted grass champion and Alysheba was
Happy 21st 
selected as the top 3-year-old. The Eclipse Awards will be given out at a dinner in New
Birthday M.C.! 
York Feb. 5. 
Charlie Whittingham, Fer­dinand's 74-year-old trainer 
. ' 
satd he was ''pleasantly
Love, 

surprised" but not "overly surprised" by the Horse of the Year honor. He said the decid­
Mom, Dad, 
ing factor was Ferdinand's vic­tory over Alysheba in the Nov. 21 Classic at Hollywood Park. 
"I think he should be a better horse this coming year," Whit­tingham said. "He's big. He's 
Chris & Catie 
___________.,sound." 
!****~******!
SKI 
*~·~ *
VAIL, COLORADO !2~ ~ 
* ---*
for * .-\\\I\ I I<\ \R) * 
* *
*****************
Spring Break 
5 nights in Condos $279.00 free parties 5 Days of skiing outdoor heated pool Last meeting to sign up will be Feb.l 7:00pm, in basement of Zahm Hall $80.00 Deposit secures a spot Come see Videotape of Vail directed by Warren Miller For Information call:
sponsored by SUB 
Mike 271-9448 or Paul 283-1116 
Boilers don't feel pressure 
Associated Press championship team, the Indiana, losing career 
Boilermakers were also scoring leader Steve Alford 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -ranked No.2 in the 1987-88 from last year's national cham­Purdue's best-in-the-nation 16-preseason poll before losing to pionship team, was 9-6 overall game winning streak is some­Iowa State in the second round and 1-4 in the Big Ten going thing the Boilermakers don't of the Big Apple NIT in Novem­into Wednesday night's game want to think about, something ber. at Ohio State. 
they can't afford to dwell on. Purdue is coming off a na­"One of the things that has 
"That's what's surprising tionally televised non­really helped us (this year) has about this team. They've conference victory at Louis­been our balance," says stayed pretty loose, played the ville and will have had a week's Keady, who is 90-42 in Big Ten games as they come," says Co­rest before challenging the games and 166-66 overall with ach Gene Keady, whose defending NCAA champion Purdue. "We've had five differ­second-ranked team is un­Hoosiers, who backed into a ent leading scorers this year; beaten in six Big Ten conference co-championship we've had six different leading Conference games and takes a with Purdue last yehr when the rebounders, even though we 17-1 overall record to Boilermakers lost their final haven't been a great rebopnd-Bloomington on Saturday to game to Michigan. ing team. We've really been a face slumping Indiana. But Purdue is the only Big team of great balance." 
"One of the things we've been Ten team with an overall series 
good about is not talking about advantage against Indiana, The Boilermakers have shot 
any strings, not worrying about having won 90 of their 150 .600 or better from the field four 
it, just trying to improve each games since the two rivals first times, including .661 against 
week," said Keady, whose 90 played in 1901. It's been diffi­Louisville. For the season, 
cult winning in the Hoosiers' Purdue has hit 52.5 percent ofconference victories over the 
past eight seasons is tops Assembly Hall, however, its shots while holding oppo­among all Big Ten coaches. where Purdue has won only nents to 45.2 percent. Only five Returning four starters from three times in the past 16 years, opponents have shot better 
last year's 25-5 conference co-twice under Keady. than 50 percent. 


Broncs, 'Skins revenge-minded 
•
Associated Press That was the general tenor Reeves said. "But the unhap­
of the debate over which team 
piest team of all is the one that 
SAN DIEGO -To a man, the feels worse about its loss. 
loses the Super Bowl." 

Denver Broncos claim that The Broncos were beaten 39-The Redskins buy that argu­
losing the Super Bowl last year 20 to the New York Giants a ment. 
fhe ObserverI Michael Moran
gives them the motivation that year ago. They claimed that But they don't buy the corol­
Applying defensive pressure like this has hetped spur the Notre
will carry them to victory on the aftermath of that defeat -lary -that because the Broncos 
Dam~ hockey team to a 17-2-2 record this season. Marty StrasenSunday. Denver coach Dan Reeves uses lost last year, they have more details the rise of the hockey program on page 16.
Almost to a man, the Wash­the word "haunted" to describe motivation. 
ington Redskins are telling his feelings -has given them an "There was nothing worse 
them: "Hey, wait a minute. unquenchable thirst that can be than that," said linebacker I S5o -I 
We're losers, too." slaked only by victory on Sun­Neal Olkewicz, one of 13 I I 
As Sunday's Super Bowl be­day. Redskins left from the 1983 win­
tween the only two teams this "Everybody but one team I $50 Coupon for: I
ner and one of 18 who played 

decade to reach the NFL title ends the season unhappy," in the 1984 loss. 
game two years in a row drew a day nearer, a subtle game of onedownsmanship was going on. Each team was trying to claim it is the bigger loser. 
It's almost as if to win a Super Bowl, you have to lose one first. 
"I certainly remember both our Super Bowls," said Wash­ington Coach Joe Gibbs, whose team beat Miami 27-17 in 1983, then was routed 38-9 by the Los Angeles Raiders the next year. 
"The first one was one of the great experiences of my life. But I also had a bitter, bitter experience the next year when we lost. You'd think it would have been enough to be here, but it wasn't." 
Schafer 
continued from page 16 

goal Schafer was aiming at before his team ever took the ice. 
"It gives us an opportunity to chase some of the better student-athletes to join the team," Schafer said. 
"I think everyone was surprised it happened so soon,'' McNeill added. 
Also coming soon is a tougher schedule. 
Next year the Irish plan to meet traditionally-strong teams like RPI, Boston Col­lege, Army, Ferris State, Illinois-Chicago, St. Cloud State and possibly Yale. 
"The first couple of years, with big-name schools, you have to come to their place before they consider playing at yours," Schafer said. "We've got Ferris State for a game, Illinois-Chicago for one game and St. Cloud State for a couple of games here." 
Perhaps the JACC should go out and buy a few "Sold Out" signs for the future. 
.A C.,.,.Jy ;,. 3 ..Aet. '5 Ntd &.,,,. Bp... "' W..,J,~t.,. Ho.ll J.......':J 28. 29. 30 T~<.>.xhc.~in th. d.;,~ J..ll. or .J; tJu, door i' -"fd..,;.,;,,.' • 2. 00 
* 

...,. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .... ...... .. ........ •¢,J> 
I Indoor Soccer I I Sign-up at I I South Bend Turners I I Ironwood at the Toll Rd. I
I* 8 game session starting NOW I 1 * Weeknights 1 0 pm • ? t 1 * $50 deposit required per 15 1 1 member team (total fee·$350) J 1-*Late entries accepted. 1 I THIS COUPON EXPIRES FEB. 13 1 1 Call 277·0851 for more informatio'l 
I Indiana's First Built I
550

I Indoor Soccer Arena I 


----------~~--------------­
Thursday, January 28, 1988 The Observer 
page 15 

The Daily Crossword



Campus . 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Calvin and Hobbes 
12 p.m.: Video and discussion of journalism under the Chilean dictatorship with Rodrigo Atria, Graduate Association for Latin America, GALA -Kellogg Graduate Student Workshop. Room 131 Decio Hall. 3:30p.m.: Aerospace-Mechanical Engineering Seminar with Dr. Michael Stanisic, 
U. of Illinois, Chicago. Room 303 Fitzpatrick Hall. 4 p.m.: Department of Theology Inaugural Lecture, "Moral Theology Today: Is Pluralism Pathogenic?" by Father Richard McCormick, S.J., John O'Brien Pro­fessor of Christian Ethics. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 4:30p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, "Chemists' Guide to Chaos in Quantum Mechanics," by Dr. Eric Heller. Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
5:15 p.m.: Mass in honor of St. Thomas Aquinas, by Father Charles Weiher, C.S.C., Chant by Chapel Choir and Schola-Thomistica. Alumni Hall Chapel. 5:15p.m.: "The Challenger" Memorial Mass, by Father William Campbell, ND Air Force ROTC Chaplain. Sacred Heart Church. 6:00p.m.: Circle K International membership reception. Center for Social Con­cerns. 7:30p.m.: Basketball, SMC vs. Tri-State University. Angela Athletic Facility. 7:30p.m.: Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 8 p.m.: Neil Simon's "The Odd Couple," by the St. Edward's Hall Players. Washington Hall. $2 at the door. 10-11 p.m.: Interview with Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., on Campus 
Perspectives, WVFI-AM 640.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
French Onion Soup  Turkey Cutlet with Gravy  
Sausage-Pepper Grinder  Pork Sukiyaki over Rice  
Spaghetti & Meatballs  Spinach  &  Mushroom  
Bourbon Baked Ham  Crepes with Supreme Sauce  
Stuffed Shells  Deli Bar  

Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
ACROSS 1 Economist Smith 
5 Plateaus 10 Lone 14 Lengthy story 15 Summit 16 Declare 17 Money players t:::-t--t---1 18 Cuban patriot 19 Russ. river 20 Flimsy 
structure 23 Law 26 Wrath 27 Fashion 28 Ought 30 Assist 32 Gr. letter 35 Employees' 
publication 37 Author Paton 38 Kitchen 
gadget 39 Dine 40 Street 

language 
41 "-Death" ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 42 Gratis All Rights Reserved 44 Beatty or 
Rorem 6 Obliterate 45 Part of a.m. 7 Waterless 46 Soaks 8 Concerning 47 Priest's gown 9 Make more 48 Baseball's Mel rigid 49 Superlative 10 Dish of greens 
suffix 11 Ended 50 "Fall of 12 Furnish 
the -" (Poe) 13 Time periods 56 Sea eagles 21 Vessel 57 "Kate and -" 22 Manx e.g. 58 Woe Is me! 23 Garbage pall 62 Actress 24 Opt 
Adams 25 Traveled from 63 Wanderer place to place 64 Clamp 29 Exploits 65 Polka -30 Marble 66 Beloved ones 31 Eng. city 67 Ms Sommer 32 Section of a 
contract 40 Young pig: var. 51 Church book 
DOWN 33 Medieval 42 Part of f.o.b. 52 Fixed quantity 1 VIper guilds: var. 43 Williams and 53 Ice sheet 2 Patriotic org. 34 Consume food Rolle 54 Sea lettuce 3 In the past 36 Payment for 45 Malt beverage 55 Speak wildly 4 Cattle feed lodging 47 Jennies 59 "-Abner" 5 Antarctica 37 Baseball 48 Willow 60 Question 
sound family name 50 Pay attention 61 Observe 

01/28/88 


.11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
S.O.B. presents: 
111111111111111111111111  EVIL DEAD  111111111111111111111111­ 
...  8 T~~i~~tm.  
51 11111111111111111111111!  $2.00 Cushing Au 111111111111111111111111 ditorium =  

Bill Watterson 

"Oh my gosh, linda! ... I think your Barbie's contemplating suicide!" 
From the Directors of Eddie Murphy's "Raw" 

HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE 
Friday and Saturday  $2.00  
8&10 PM  Sponsored by SUB  
Cushing Auditorium  

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 











Sports
Thursday, January 28, 1988 page 16 

Irish burn Butler with hot shooting 
By PETE SKIKO bolted out to a 31-24 lead with 
Sports Writer 6: 18 left in the half. But the Irish went on a 16-4 
Put all thoughts of a pre­run to close out the half and Kentucky letdown out of your swing the momentum back in mind. their favor. The key basket in 
It took about half the game the run was contributed by to do it, but the Notre Dame Rivers, who drove the lane, men's basketball team was arched his back to avoid a able to finally shake loose of defender, and tossed the ball in the Butler Bulldogs last night from behind his head while fal­at the JACC, 85-66, behind 26 ling down. That gave the Irish points from David Rivers and breathing room at 38-34, and red-hot 61 percent field goal got the crowd into the game. shooting. The second half was an exer­
cise in physically wearing 
But the seemingly lopsided down a smaller team. The Irish win was very much in doubt un­outrebounded Butler 39-18 for til early in the second half, the game. But Bulldog head co­
mainly because of the sweet ach Joe Sexson didn't think that touch of Butler's Chad Tucker. 
the size difference was the 
Tucker, a 6-7 fifth-year senior, deciding factor. 
scored 17 first-half points (31 
for the game) and almost "Our 'blue collar' work was single-handedly kept his team terrible," said Sexson, in his in the game early. 11th year as Butler's mentor. 
The Bulldogs, who average "I was extremely disappointed less than three three-point field with our defense, hustle, and goals per game, connected on our general ability to get physi­6-of-7 of them in the first half cal with (Notre Dame). We alone to all but nullify Notre might not have won tonight had Dame's torrid 72 percent shoot­we done those things -Notre 
Taking advantage of a huge rebounding edge, the 
ing in the half. And the sparse 
see IRISH, page 11Notre Dame men's basketball team powered past 
crowd became edgy as Butler 

Butler 85-66 last night. Kevin Ellery (35) reaches . 

Vogel, swimmers await big meet with St. Bonaventure 
By GREG GUFFEY at the National Catholic Meet "This is the biggest dual year and won due primarily to also competes in the individual Sports Writer earlier this year. meet of the season," Vogel the absence of St. Bonaventure medley, says he has learned to said. "We've been rivals for divers." combat the pressures of col­During his first two years "That's why I feel I'm com­years." While he has been pointing to legiate swimming and the with the Irish swim team, ing out of the light in the Irish coach Tim Welsh is this meet all season, Vogel also rigors of the numerous meets. Brian Vogel had to concentrate breaststroke -because I can equally excited the arrival of realizes he is lucky to be on the "Success in swimming is 70 on a variety of events because concentrate on one thing," St. Bonaventure. team. He overcame injuries percent mental," Vogel said. of the lack of depth on the team. Vogel said. "It's enabled me to "St. Bonaventure is one of sustained in a car accident last "You have to set aside time to As a result, his performance focus much more on what I the oldest, strongest, and most ·summer and worked his way relax and get away from the suffered. need to do. It's enabled me to intense rivalries on the back into shape. pool and from studies. We're in 
But, oh how the times have set up training patterns for the schedule," Welsh said. "The Vogel credits his emergence the water close to 20 hours a changed for Vogel. With the ad­week and to put in-a certain men are looking toward it as from those injuries into one of week. It's important to take a dition of a strong freshman amount of breaststroke yar­the key point on the schedule. the top Irish contributors to the break every day and put every­class and more overall team dage." We think we have a team that training program and coaching thing aside." depth, Vogel concentrates his is competitive." of Welsh. The squad trained in efforts on basically one event, Vogel knows he will be in for Arizona over semester break, While Vogel sets an individ­
and the effects are more than his stiffest challenge of the The women's squad, mean­and frequently practices twice ual goal for each meet, he does 
noticable. season Saturday when St. while, travels to Illinois State a day. have one long-term feat he is Bonaventure invades Rolfs on Friday and then hosts St. "Arizona was better in a lot pushing toward. 
Vogel now spends his pool Aquatic Center. The Irish Bonaventure on Saturday. of ways because we got to swim "There's nothing more that time preparing for his dominated the East Coast "The women have an ex­outdoors," Vogel said. "It was I'd like than to finish in the top specialty event, the squad until a few years ago tremely difficult weekend 14 days of solid training. It was three of the breaststroke at the breaststroke, and he has been when the Bonnies began to give ahead," Welsh said. "Illinois made affordable, so the whole Midwest championships,"turning in first-place times on scholarships. Given the recent State is the defending Midwest team could go. It drew the team Vogel said. a consistent basis. His best success of the squad, Vogel and champion, and they're an ex­closer together." And with his recent perfor­time of the year was a 2:11.70 the Irish will be looking for cellent team. The women Vogel, a native of mances, that dream may not clocking in the 200 breaststroke some reven e this weekend. swam at St. Bonaventure last Clarksville Tennessee who be too far in t f . 
•


Schafer g1ves ND hockey new, winning, look 
The Joyce ACC is a strikingly different place on time at a Notre Dame hockey game. We've provided "That stuff's pretty crazy," said Irish captain Friday and Saturday nights this year. them with good entertainment." and leading point-getter Mike McNeill. 
First-year Notre Dame hockey coach Ric Schafer But don't worry about the signs. Flash a student "We've got 750 kazoos," Schafer added. "We're planned it that way, and things couldn't have gone ID and you're in the place. The next difference waiting for some dorm to say they want to be a much better. His Irish are really stirring up some you'll notice is that you won't hear organ music kazoo band. I'm waiting for the first Notre Dame trouble under the dome. anymore. What you will hear is perhaps the most kazoo band to form, and we'll provide the kazoos." 
Don't be surprised if you're greeted inside the unusual rendition of the Notre Dame Victory March But once you're past the door and you get used gate by a handwritten sign hanging on the ticket ever played. to The Whip's two-and-a-half-hour concert, have a window. On green paper two words were scribbled 
seat and see what the real difference is at the Joyce in pen this past Saturday: ACC this year. Notre Dame hockey. 
"Sold Out." Marty Beating teams to the puck, crisp passing, clean 
It's no wonder the ticket salespeople had to make checks and not much after-the-whistle activity nave their own signs. With the teams of last year and Strasen put 17 wins in the books. the year before posting records of 12-21-1 and 11-16-1, "It's the work ethic," explains McNeill. respectively, they never had to worry about filling Assistant Sports Editor "Everyone seems to be working harder in practice, the place. and it's showing up when we go out on the ice in 
The 1986-87 Irish, with their 17-2-2 record against games. We seem a lot more confident. I think that many of the same teams that beat them in the past, Peter "The Whip" Abowd has taken care of that, comes from winning right off the bat. drew 1,895 fans this past Saturday night in an 8-4 to the delight of some and the dismay of others. "We know what we can do now. Now it's just a victory over North Dakota State. Crowds of more Abowd, of "100 Years" fame, handles a jazzed-up, matter of going out and doing it every weekend." than 1,500 people are the rule, not the exception, pop-style version of the fight song and the National What the Irish have done has paid off in more this season. Anthem on the keyboards and electronic drums. He ways than the victory column. The team has been 
"Fantastic," Schafer said of the new surge of also belts out a few other numbers before face-offs, given 10 scholarships over the next four years, a support for Irish hockey. "We're really pleased. I and has a Pee Wee Herman-recorded laugh for 
see SCHAFER, page 14
just hope the word is out that you can have a good when the Irish really need a lift. 



