r------. ~ 
Clear out
IACCENT: Chicken, hawk, or Quayle? 
~~~ Sunny today with high around:o:l 80. Mostly clear tonight, low in 
the mid 50s. Increasing clouds , I Saturday with chance of after­

IVIEWPOINT: Ethics and the military 
-J noon thundershowers.
'------­

VOL. XXII, NO. 4 FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Iran, Iraq open first peace talks 
Associated Press 
GENEVA--Iran and Iraq on Thursday opened the first face-to-face negotiations on ending their 8-year-old war, and the mediator, U.N. secretary­General Javier Perez de Cuellar, voiced hope they would embark on a "path of t peace." 
Perez de Cuellar welcomed the delegations headed by Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati and his Iraqi counterpart, Tariq Aziz, and they sat at long, rectangular tables posi­tioned left and right of the U.N. team in a triangular fashion. 
"Your presence clearly indicates your governments are quite prepared to pursue the path of peace," he said, adding that he hoped the talks would be "businesslike, constructive and, indeed, productive." 
:. .:·:;;;-::;~~~·~: 
.. ....... ...,
~ -~._........~, 
< "1"""'~· .,:, ..... ~ 
~-:., . ......_. -~~: 
-~-' 
The atmosphere in the ornate U.N.  Sittin' on the dock ...  The Observer 1 Suzanne Poch  
see  TALKS,  page  6  The dock on St. Joseph's Lake is a relaxing, if obscure in the rays while doing a little reading.  
place to study. Here, a student finds peace soaking  



Hostages to be released, says Beirut newspaper 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon--The 18 foreign hostages held in Lebanon will be freed soon, a leading Beirut newspaper re­ported Thursday. 
Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite will be the first one released, the daily As-Safir said. "The countdown has begun," it said in a one­paragraph report attributed to unidentified Western diplomatic sources in Moslem west Beirut. 
The leftist newspaper, based in west Beirut, has good con­necfions with Moslem groups that may have information on the hostages, most of whom are believed held by pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem zealots. 
Rumors of an impending release of hostages have been frequent around the Middle East since Iran and Iraq agreed to a cease-fire and peace talks. 
However, the pro-Iranian group believed to hold most of the hostages issued a state­ment last week denying those reports. 
"The release of Anglican 


HlJSH 
';. I 
I(' 
~­
*-~-1 


AP Photo

Running a campaign 
Vice President George Bush, the Republican presidential candidate, jogs with a group of supporters during a stop in Chicago. Story on the Bush campaign on page 4. 
Church envoy Terry Waite will be the first step" to freeing the hostages, the paper said with­out saying when that would happen. 
Waite, 48, envoy of the Arch­
bishop of Canterbury, the Most 
Rev. Robert Runcie, disap­
peared Jan. 20, 1987, after 
leaving his west Beirut hotel to 
negotiate the release of Amer­ican hostages held by the pro­Iranian Islamic Jihad, or Is­lamic Holy War. 
An anonymous caller pur­porting to speak for Islamic Jihad told a news agency in Beirut last week that Waite was alive and "We might release him if the government of (Prime Minister Margaret) Thatcher showed good inten­tions." 
However, Islamic Jihad had not claimed Waite's abduction. It also had insisted in the past that it would communicate only in writing and accompanied by a photograph of one of the hostages to prove the mes­sage's authenticity. 
One day after the Aug. 17 telephone call, Islamic Jihad sent such a statement to a Western news agency, insisting that no hostage will be freed until its demands are met. That statement was accompanied by a photograph of American hostage Terry Anderson. "What everyone expects soon is a mirage assumed to be water by a thirsty man," said the statement. 
Anderson, 40, of Lorain, Ohio, is chief Middle East cor­respondent for The Associated Press. He is the longest-held hostage, kidnapped on March 16, 1985. 

Hurley returns to Notre Dame as student 
By NATASHA WILSON Senior Staff Reporter 
Overcoming the impossible became a reality this summer for Kevin Hur­ley, who rejoined his original classmates after three years recovering from injuries he suffered as a freshman here. 
Hurley, 21, was a fresh­man when he was seriously injured in a ·hit-and-run ac­cident in 1985. He's currently enrolled full-time in the Class of 1992, but he's enjoy­ing time with his original classmates in the Class of '89. 
"His main goal in devel­opment was to return to Notre Dame before the Class of '89 graduated. He worked really hard to get back here," said Jeff Dorschner, Hurley's neighbor in St. Ed­ward's Hall. 
"It seems like it's been a quest for him to get back to Notre Dame. It's like he's in heaven to be here," said Dorschner, a resident assis­tant. 
Hurley said he wants to meet as many seniors as possible, but is also looking forward to getting to know the freshmen. 
"I always look forward to coming out here. There's something about (the campus). It's the spirit of the campus and the people," Hurley said, adding that he hopes to gain independence while in college. 
Hurley said he received his first taste of self-reliance since the accident this sum­mer when he rowed on the Charles River in Boston with a community rowing club. 
"1t was the first time I've really been free to do whatever I want. It felt great to get that kind of freedom back," he said. 
Hurley said his objectives for the scho81 year inclqde success in both academic and social endeavors. Kevin, his family and friends and University officials are all confident he will accomplish his goals, Dorschner said. 
The freshman already has a head start on academics because he took freshman· English and finite mathema­tics last year at Boston Col­lege, about 45 minutes from his home in Dover, Mass. He also went to summer school at the college. 
His achievements in those classes led his parents to believe that he could do well academically at Notre Dame, Hurley said. 
Hurley, who intends to major in design, is currently 
see KEVIN, page 6 


Friday, August 26, 1988 
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



IN BRIEF 
Visitors from Siberia journeyed from their !own, Dickson, to Dixon, Ill. for a private tour ?f President Reagan's boyhood home. The group is the frrst_ from the Soviet Union to visit the home where Reagan hved_fro~ 1920 to 1928. The Soviet tourists, Dickson Ma~or Nikolai Kartamyshev, journalist Boris Ivanov and mterpreter Nikolai Vishnevsky were greeted with applause and h~nd­'shakes by about 100 local well-wishers. "We tassocia e Reagan with the positive changes in relations b~tween our countries," Kartamyshev said. "It's interestmg to see where he spent his childhood." -Associated Press A thousand dead fish that turned up on the Ohio River in Kentucky this week have officials trying to figure out why. David Bell, district fishery biologist with the Department of Fish and Wildl~e, estimated at l~ast 500, and possibly up to 1,000, had died. Most of _the fish were rockfish shad, and drum, also known as white perch. The fish may have been killed by a chemical released into the river he said. Bell said chemicals are suspected as a caus~ of death in fish when more than one species dies.­Associated Press A message in a bottle carried good news to Karen Durfee a mother of four who found the bottle washed up on sho~e in Newport, R.I. Durfee and her children were treated to a cruise of Narragansett Bay by the yachtswoman who set the bottle afloat. "It was great; it was really neat," Durfee said. "They don't get ~o do s_ome­thing like that ever." The yachtswoman, Suste Neilsen, said she dropped the bottle into the ocean Aug. 1 off Cape May, N.J., as she and her husband passed northward while taking another yacht to Newport. Three days later, Ms. Durfee found the bottle on the Sakonnet River shore in Little Compton. "It was just a silly idea to see if anyone would find it," Ms. Neilsen said.-Associated Press A weather machine in Portland, Ore. was unveiled this week by weatherman Willard Scott of NBC's "Today Show." Each day at noon, the machine sprays water, blinks lights, plays a trumpet fanfare and releases one of three weather symbols from a steel globe -­a gold-leaf sun for clear days, a silvery blue heron for precipitation, and a roaring copper dragon for a storm. The 30-foot sculp­ture also includes a weathervane for wind direction and a series of lights that indicate the temperature. "The Wea­ther Machine will help us recognize and celebrate the weather in a unique, fun way," said David Porter, exec­utive director of Pioneer Courthouse Square. The contrap­tion, which had been in the works for nearly five years, was designed by four local artists.-Associated Pre-ss  
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer • advertising. JfJMh. ~ Call 239-6900 ~  ·  

We want to know! Ifyou see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Typesetters.......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Kolar ......................................... Jim Mercurio News Editor .......... Kendra Morrill Copy Editor.. . ............... Regis Coccia Sports Copy Editor ........ Pete Skiko Viewpoint Layout ....... Annette Rowland Accent Copy Editor ....... Susan Buckley Accent La)lout... . . . . . . . . Annette Rowland Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy McKee ND Day Editor .. ............. Kathy McKee Photographer ..... ............. Suzanne Poch Tile ObllerYer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 'Be Obeener is a member of 'Be Auodaled Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



With Republicans, life is one Grand Old Party 
By now we're all familiar with Senator Ted Kennedy's famous question "Where was George?" Had you asked this last week, "In New Orleans" would have been the response. Bush 30,000 of his fellow Republicans, 13,000 members of the press and I were in the "Big Easy," attending tpe 1988 Republican National Convention. 
Attending a national political convention is one of the most intense experiences available to the common man. From the moment I ar­rived at Chicago's Midway airport one Sunday morning until my return the following Satur­day, I was totally immersed in the convention experience. Everyone I saw that week was a delegate, a reporter or a "staff person." This last category is a euphemism for someone who serves no real purpose, but simply goes for the experience and the free parties (which category did I fall in? You guessed it --"Congressman Harris Fawell's staff"). 
The plane arrived in New Orleans at the un­godly hour of 9:30a.m. The last thing my still­groggy head needed 'Yas to hear strai~s of :'As 
The Saints Go Marchmg In" by a 12-ptece Jazz 
ensemble. The airport was all done up in red, white and blue. Little old ladies, dressed as Uncle Sam, stood ready to help us locate our 
luggage or taxis. 
On the ride downtown, the raised tombs for 
which New Orleans is famous were almost 
blocked from sight by the highway banners 
proclaiming the Coca-Cola Company's welcome 
to the 1988 convention. The Superdome, site of 
the actual convention sessions, was surrounded 
by satelite dishes for the TV stations covering 
the week's events. 
The Meridien Hotel, where I stayed, housed 
the entire Illinois delegation. The Illinois 
delegates had the annoying habit of wearing 
the bright-orange polyester jackets which 
someone, in a fit of angst, decided they should 
purchase. 
No one ever accused Republicans of being wild dressers. It usually seems radical if one is seen wearing a non-button down shirt. However, the quadrennial con\_'entions seem to bring out the worst (best?) in even the most conservative right-winger's wardrobe. The 11­linois delegation's bright orange sportcoats were the most noticeable fashion faux pas, but they were by no means alone. Obnoxious shirts, buttons (but none for Quayle), signs and hats were simply par for the course in New Orleans. 
What the non-participant often fails to realize 
is that most people do not attend a nominating 
convention to nominate a president and vice 
president. The party's choice of candidate was 

l)ELE6ATc f.A<UfON 'n'u.l M 
...., •-'" J 'I L ( ftePUISLtc;..AN) C 
decided during the spring primaries. Bush him­
self chose the vice presidential candidate; the 
convention only serves as a rubber stamp. 

The real reason people such as myself attend conventions is for the free parties. During the Republican convention, there were over 2,000 parties, receptions and hospitality suites to choose from. They were sponsored by every imaginable lobbyist, corporation and individ­ual, all in an attempt to influence the powerful people who attend conventions. 
This, of course, did not stop political wea­klings like myself from attending. Open bars, unlimited food and the chance to rub elbows with Congressmen, ambassadors and cabinet members is enough to draw anyone to such events. There were so many to choose from that it took the better part of the morning just to decide which to attend. Life is tough .... 
And then there was Bourbon Street. It is amazing what the City of New Orleans can do to your average Republican. Bourbon Street, lined with strip joints, jazz halls and bars of every description, lured even the most conser­vative Members of Congress to explore. 
For a while, I was thinking of running as a delegate for the 1992 GOP convention. Then I realized how silly that would be: I might have to work and miss all the fun. I wouldn't want to be Party to that. 
SWEATS 
AND MUCH MORE!! ·youR DESIGN SCREEN PRINTED TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX .928 

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 255-4239 

Friday, August 26, 1988 

The Observer page 3 
High GNP, inflation rates trigger worries that economy overheating 
Associated Press "The economy is growing But the demand strength much too fast," said Robert helped trigger a sharp jump in 
WASHINGTON-­Dederick, chief economist of prices. After rising at an an­Government figures showed the Northern Trust Co. of nual rate of 1.7 percent in the Thursday that the economy, Chicago. "It is nice to grow fast first quarter, the GNP surging through a stiff drag at the early stages of an expan­deflator's 5.1 percent showing caused by the drought, grew at sion when you have an ·Jot of in the second quarter was the the surprisingly brisk annual unemployment, but at this worst since the third quarter of pace of 3.3 percent in the stage we just can't afford it." 1982. second quarter but inflation hit The 3.3 percent second quar­a six-year peak of 5.1 percent. ter growth represented an up­The big jump in the GNP 
ward revision from a month deflator, which reflects 
The Commerce Department ago when the government esti­changes in buying patterns as said that the gain in the gross mated the GNP expanded at a well as prices, was attributed national product, the total out­3.1 percent during the spring. to higher costs for clothing, put of goods and services, GNP growth in the first three food and gasoline. would have soared beyond the months of the year was 3.4 per­
3.3 percent clip had it not been cent. Even economists who fear for a larger-than-expected $9.5 Strength in both quarters rising inflation and credit­billion loss in farm production. came from big improvements tightening by the Fed will Without that impact of the in the trade deficit, which topple the country into a new drought, GNP growth from shrank at an annual rate of recession are not predicting a April through June would have $18.9 billion in the spring, the downturn until mid-1989 at the hit a 4.3 percent annual pace, best performance in eight earliest. it said. years. Growth in the current July­
Business investment shot up S€ptember quarter will likely .. ~ 



~'l··1.•

new worries that the Federal capital spending plans to meet Nov. 8 presidential election, 
"~·-=---"~~ 

Reserve will be forced to step increased export demands. analysts said. And many up its anti-inflation campaign Government and consumer economists believe the country by sending interest rates even spending was up as well in the will be able to escape a slump higher to quell the heatup. second quarter. next year as well. 
Strikes weaken on 1Oth day of unrest
The Observer 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Associated Press martial law. The workers had the beginning of this week. Still Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for sought higher wages, better strikebound were the July the following position: GDANSK; Poland--Convoys working conditions and Manifesto, Jastrzebie and 30 of riot police rolling from mine recognition of the banned Years of People's Poland to mine in southern Poland Solidarity trade union. mines, the first to declare broke up strikes Thursday, the The member of one strike strikes Aug. 16. lOth day of nationwide protests, committee said police beat at
Copy Editors 

but the labor unrest continued least six miners. In Gdansk, strike spokesman along the Baltic coast. Strikes crumbled in Poland's Bogdan Olszewski said A combination of skillful economically strategic Silesian Solidarity leader Lech Walesa propaganda, intimidating dis­coal region as riot police forced and 1,300 supporters spentFor further Information contact plays of strength and limited strikers to evacuate three Wednesday night at the idled use of force by authorities ap­paralyzed mines, according to Lenin shipyard. The state
Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin 

peared· to be winding down workers. Steelworkers in the media estimated only a few Poland's worst wave of strikes Nowa Huta mill outside hundred people on strike there 
at The Observer (239-5303) 

of Krakow gave up on an on­and three other nearby again, off-again strike. shipyards. 
The state news agency PAP The Gdansk port, the reported strikes ended country's busiest, remained to­Thursday at the Krupinski, tally shut down, according to ZMP and First of May mines. reporters. But the state­
An opposition spokeswoman, controlled media said parts of Lucyna Wujec, confirmed the the port were working. Krupinski miners gave up their strike without any police pres­Gdansk's port director sure because they were tired issued an ultimatum that dock­after five days in the mine. She workers would be fired unless had no information on the ZMP they signed statements that mine. they are not on strike. 
But at least 20 people A prominent Roman Catholic remained barricaded under­intellectual, Andrzej Stelmac­ground at the Mosczenica howski, met with Walesa to try mine, one of the three cleared to serve as an intermediary to by police Wednesday night. get talks started in the Gdansk 
Strikes continued in only port strikes, said Adam Mich­three mines, down from 12 at nik, an adviser to Walesa. 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch


Postgame time 
Alumni freshmen Tim Farley, wearing cast, and Mark Gillespie relax after a game of basketball at Stepan. Sports injuries these days are seen almost as frequently as games on the Stepan courts. 
since the 1981 imposition 

Aug 26 Fri Elk's Lodge Gathering 

Tunes, Friends, Refreshments 8PM-1 AM Buy tix at Senior Class Office Wed. Thurs, & Fri, 
. , 

and at the door. Limited Tickets. Buses leave main circle at 8PM and will run every 1/2 
hour. (directions can be pickrd up in the office.) 

Aug 27 Sat Meet at New Buffalo Beach ( not the Dunes)-see signs for directions 

-~~--------------·---~­
Friday, August 26, 1988

page4 The Observer 


Dukakis, Bush spar long distance 
It was too early to know how medals. dition of anonymity, called the much damage was caused to Prechtel said Conrad worked case "a serious encroachment the North Atlantic Treaty Or­with classified military on our national security." ganization, Prechtel said in an defense plans for seven years White House spokesman interview, but the ring is at a U.S. Army base in Bad Marlin Fitzwater said Presi­believed to have stolen docu­Kreuznach, in central West dent Reagan had been kept in­ments concerning NATO Germany, and had access to a formed about the investigation defense plans for Europe and wide array of secret docu­"on a continuing basis." But he 
U.S. Army contingency plans ments. Conrad allegedly con­added, "We won't have any for a ground war with the So­tinued espionage work after he response or reaction at this viet Union in Europe. left the service in 1985, Prechtel point. We're looking into it." 
Clyde Lee Conrad, the said. A special panel of West Ger­former sergeant, was arrested Rebmann said Conrad many's Supreme Court or­Tuesday, and a statement from turned over the most recent dered Conrad held in prison the prosecutor's office said he batch of information to his So­pending further investigation. was charged with "compelling viet bloc contact in Vienna just suspicion of espionage activi­last month. 
ties in an especially grave Cable News Network on case." Thursday quoted unidentified Conrad was born in 1947 in West German sources as Ohio and worked for the U.S. saying Conrad systematically 



The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 

Day Editors 
For further information contact 
•


Jim Winkler at The Observer (239-5303) 

~bt Nt\tt lork~imtS 

Discount Rates for ND Campus Delivery: 
Fall T~rm  S12ring T~rm  Fyll Y~ar  
Monday-Friday  $17.00  $17.25  $34.25  
Monday-Saturday  $20.00  $20.25  $40.25  
Monday-Sunday  $50.00.  $50.25  $100.25  
Sunday only  $30.00  $30.00  $60,00  

Delivery to dorms, faculty offices or lock boxes will begin on 8-26. Refunds will be granted for deliveries beginning after 8-26. To begin delivery, mail your name, address, phone number and payment to: 
Jeff Zawada 333 Sorin Hall for more information call Notre Dame, IN 46556 283-2199 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 


Assistant News Editor 
For further information contact Mark Mclaughlin or Regis Coccia 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
Atlantic Ocean Living Child Care or Elderly Non-Infirmary Care 
Full time Live-in position available in Boston Call or write: Helping .Hand 25 West St. P.O. Box 17 Beverly Falls, Ma 01919 1-800-356-3422 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch

Face plant 
Freshmen Stephanie Case, left, and Cesar Capella walk back to their dorms from the annual plant sale at Stepan Center. From the look of things, they didn't leave empty-handed. 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, West Germany--A former U.S. Army sergeant arrested in West Germany headed an in­ternational spy ring that sold NATO defense secrets to the Soviets at high prices for a de­cade, officials said Thursday. 
"We can't exclude the possi­bility that millions of dollars are involved," said Alexander Prechtel, spokesman for the chief federal prosecutor's of­fice. 
military for 20 years, Prechtel said. Army records list his hometown as Sebring, Ohio. 
He worked as an in­fantryman and then as an "ad­ministration specialist" during his active duty, according to his service records released in Washington. Conrad received the National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal, five Army Commenda­tion medals, the Army Achievement Medal, three Meritorious Service medals and seven Good Conduct 
Associated Press 
Democrat Michael Dukakis said Thursday that cocaine im­ports have tripled in seven years and charged the Reagan administration with permitting a "drug cancer" to take root. George Bush said he represents "proven, tested leadership" and likened his presidential rival to Jimmy Carter. 
Dukakis and Bush sparred long distance as their vice presidential running mates en­countered turbulence on their own campaign rounds. 
Democrat Lloyd Bentsen was booed repeatedly when he praised Dukakis before the Veterans of Foreign Wars meeting in Chicago. 
. Republican vice presidential candidate Dan Quayle was greeted in Columbia, Mo., by competing groups of sup­porters and demonstrators and a few signs that read, "War Wimp" and "Quayle's a Chicken." That was a refer­ence to the furor over his Na­tiona! Guard service at the height of the Vietnam War. 
The Indiana senator told· reporters the public was "get­ting a little sick" of the contro­versy, and at a meeting later with farmers, he added, "I won't take any questions" about the subject. 

photographed files between 1980 and 1985. The CNN report said investigators believe he may have transferred material onto a personal computer, which was seized at his home. 
Espionage cases are com­mon in West Germany, where Soviet bloc agents are active and sometimes are caught. But allegations of deep involve­ment by an American citizen in a West German-based ring are extremely rare. 
An official at the U.S. Justice Department, speaking on con­
Quayle said he was qualified to assume the presidency "if that situation arises." He added that at 41, he is nearly as old as John Kennedv was when he won the White House. 
The candidates spoke as the debate over campaign debates continued in Washington. Nancy Neuman, president of the League of Women Voters, said she was encouraged that aides to Bush and Dukakis would meet next week to begin negotiations on debates for the fall. 
Democratic chairman Paul Kirk criticized Bu~h for indica­ting on Wednesday that he wanted to wait until at least Sept. 20 before meeting Dukakis in debate. " ... He's not going to be able to refuse to debate," Kirk said. 
Dukakis leveled a sharp at­tack on the drug policies pursued by President Reagan, and said Bush had failed in his task as a leader in the admin­istration war on drugs. He said the administration was "ac­tively in business with (Panamanian) General Manuel Noriega while Noriega was involved in drug activity. 
"My friends, that's criminal. That's criminal," he said. 
"Why after seven years of task forces and policy boards and grandiose claims have cocaine imports tripled, drug-related deaths doubled and heroin imports risen by 50 per­cent?" Dukakis added in a speech in Cleveland. He said the "drug cancer" was under­mining governments overseas and was the "single greatest cause of violence in America today." 
An upbeat Bush said the cam­paign momentum belonged to him as he opened a four-day campaign swing through his adopted home state of Texas. He said the country needs "proven, tested leadership" in the White House. 
The vice president compared Massachusetts Gov. Dukakis to former President Carter, add­ing he did not want to return to the "malaise" that occurred "the last time a governor came out of nowbere and became­president of the United States." Carter won the White House in 1976 campaigning as a former governor of Georgia. 
Standing in the late-summer heat in San Antonio, Bush told 
a: riverfront rally that he would revive the faltering oil indus­try, create a better climate for small business, fight against federal gun control and provide 
jobs  for  the  state's  large  
minority populat ion.  
"I  want  to  help  these  

minorities who haven't really had a shot at the starting line," he said. 

U.S. sergeant arrested as head of spy ring, sold NATO secrets to Russians 

YourBasic YotirBASIC 





Problem: Solution: 

The Tl-74 BASICALC: The BASIC language programmable calculatar from Texas Instruments. The mathematics and statistics cartridges are two offive optional application software available. 
Friday, August 26, 1988 
Preaching kids disrupt, leave elementary school 
Associated Press  would continue to preach at school. But after four hours of  
MARION,  N.C.-­ Three negotiations Wednesday night,  

youngsters whose shouted ser-McDowell County School Sup­mons have disrupted school erintendent David Ricketts an-. and led to their repeated nounced a new agreement. suspensions have agreed to "We have reached a new stop preaching on school level of trust and understand­grounds, officials said. ing," Ricketts said. "The 
The Strode children --Duf-Strodes have agreed not to fey, 11, Pepper, 7 and Matthew, preach or disturb our schools, 6 --left Eastfield Elementary not even to preach at hal­School this week to begin home lgames." instruction. Each had been In return, Ricketts said, suspended five times last school officials have dropped spring for shouting Bible attempts to get Strode to sign verses outside school or for an agreement to prevent future refusing to enter the building. litigation. 
Their father, David Strode, The children, however, will had said Wednesday they continue to be taught at home. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENn STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

The Observer The independent student newspaper serv.ing . Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting apphcat1ons for the following position: 

For further Information contact 
Molly Killen 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
The TI, 7 4 BASICAlC"' is ~ 
a BASIC calculator that's 
also an advanced scientific 
calculator. In effect, it's two 
calculators in one. 
' In its BASIC mode, you have direct, two-keystroke access to 41 BASIC commands, as well as 10 user-definable keys which can make use than any other programmable doing your coursework a basic snap. calculator. 
Switch to its calculator mode and Your BASICALC specs: you're armed with 70 scientific • 8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM. functions to help you easily solve • 113 BASIC keyword set. those tough technical problems. • Optional software cartridges for chemical 
And the large, color-coded keys, engineering, math, statistics and finance. QWERTY keyboard and separate • Optional PASCAL language cartridge. numeric keypad make it easier to • Optional printer and cassette interface. 
TMTrndemark of Texas Instruments lncorporartd ©1988 n. 

The Observer pageS 
' i 

.. 

Getting trashed 
The Observer 1 Suzanne Poch 

Dozens of boxes lay near the dumpster outside Farley hurry to meet the 8 p.m. hallway clearance deadline. Hall yesterday. Settled students discarded them in a 
Wildfires threaten Yellowstone Park 
Associated Press 
YELLOWSTONE NA­TIONAL PARK, Wyo.--Brisk winds carried a 108,300-acre blaze over fire lines Thursday, fanning flames to within less than a half mile of one of Yel­lowstone National Park's most scenic areas and forcing offi­cials to close the park's west entrance. 
Meanwhile, a fire that had come within a mile of a nuclear missile silo in Montana moved away Thursday. 
Crews in Yellowstone began hosing down the 600 cabins and other buildings at the Canyon area, one of the largest developments in the nation's Two other fires --the 162,000­oldest national park, as flames acre Clover-Mist fire on the became visible from the area. park's eastern side and a Firefighters also began unroll­88,326-ac!e in the park's·south­ing water lines on roofs for ern end burned but threatened sprinkler systems to bolster no buildings. Ash and smoke protection. from the fires reduced 
visibility significantly in By late afternoon, Wyoming and brought haze and 
firefighters had drawn the brightly colored sunsets to flames away from Canyon and Colorado. back toward the main section of the big North Fork fire by To the south of Yellowstone setting backfires, Fire Infor­in Grand Teton National Park mation Officer Judith Downing and the Bridger-Teton National said. While there was no imme­Forest, fire managers chose to diate threat to structures at herd a 15,569-acre blaze north 
Canyon, officials won't know if toward Yellowstone, hoping it the area is out of danger before would run out of fuel when it Sunday, she said. merged with ·other blazes. 
Stop by your bookstore and see both sides of the TI-7 4 BASI CALC for yourself. Either way, it'll blow you away. 




TEXAS~ 

INSlRUMENlS 

Friday, August 26, 1988
page6 The Observer 



Kevin 
continued from page 1 
taking Anthropology, Fresh­man Seminar, Basic Design and Physical Education. 
Dorschner said Hurley's return means a lot to ·this year's senior class. "One of the things he did for this senior class was he united everybody 

Talks 
continued from page 1 
hall was ~ober. Aziz smiled and nodded at the Iranians when the two delegations entered the chamber, but there was no re­action. 
The delegates numbered 13 on the Iranian side and 15 on the Iraqi side. Perez de Cuellar was flanked by five aides. 
The meeting began about 20 minutes late. As journalists were told to leave the chamber so that the private talks could start, Aziz lit a cigar and began puffing on it. 
U.N. spokesman Francois Giuliani said the meeting was conducted in English, Arabic and Farsi. 
After about 2 hours, the delegations moved into differ­ent rooms, where U.N. repre­sentatives consulted with them separately. Giuliani said he could not provide further details and added: "It is not a bad sign, nor a good sign. It's a normal process of consulta­tion." 
"It was a good discussion," Perez de Cuellar said Thursday night as he announced the talks had ended for the day and would resume Friday. "We covered many points and the two parties want to consult with their covernments." 
Giuliani said the round of talks was expected to continue through Sunday at least, but he did not know exactly when it would end or when Perez de Cuellar would leave Geneva. 
A truce that took effect Aug. 20 appeared to be holding. Saeem Fahmawi, a spokesman for the 350 United Nations ob­servers patrolling the 733-mile Iraq-Iran warfront, said in Baghdad that there have been no major violations. 
Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iran's and gave them a good start," said Emil Hofman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies. 
He has undergone three years of elctensive physical rehabilitation and speech therapy since the accident. 
On Sept. 7, 1985, Hurley was struck by a hit-and-run driver on U.S. 31-33, the highway be­tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Parliament Speaker and acting commander of the country's armed forces, charged on Thursday, however, that Iraq was "obstructing peace ef­forts" to end the conflict, Teh­ran radio reported. . 
Rafsanjani said Iran will keep its forces along the front line "so that Iraq is forced to accept peace." 
Before their face-to-face meeting Thursday, Aziz and Velayati held separate talks with Perez de Cuellar, the Iraqi for about 50 minutes and the Iranian for 75 minutes. Both ig­nored questions shouted by reporters waiting at the main entrance of the building. 
The two delegations include political representatives, legal experts, army representatives and officials of relief societies. 
The talks are the first step toward implementing U.N. resolution 598, which was adopted by the Security Coun­cil more than one year ago. It calls on Iran and Iraq to cooperate with the secretary­general in achieving "a com­prehensive, just and honorable settlement" of all outstanding issues. 
Implementation of the cease­fire resolution involves a wide range of issues including settle­ment of border disputes andes­tablishment of a commission to determine which side started the war. 

· Diplomats have said that Iran and Iraq are divided over the agenda of peace talks. Iran is seeking strict adherence to Resolution 598, while Iraq wants to introduce other issues, . like navigation rights in the dis­puted border, the Shatt-al-Arab waterway. 
Repatriation of POWs is also expected to be a thorny issue. Perez de Cuellar has said there are more than 80,000 POWs in total. 

Hurley suffered a fractured  humor. His key characteristic'  Freshman Year of Studies, his  
pelvis, a bruised lung, multiple  of getting through all of this has  professors and the Notre Dame  
head injuries and a broken leg  been his jokes. He makes jokes  Club of Boston,  whose  com­ 
which necessitated the am­putation of his lower left leg.  about everything and keeps a positive (attitude)," the resi­ bined efforts have made it pos­sible for him to return to  
Right now trying he's to build up enough endurance to walk without his crutches, Hurley said.  dent assistant said. Hurley said he appreciates the prayers and support the Class of '89 have expressed  campus as a student. Hurley has visited the campus three· times since his accident. His most memorable  
Dorschner said he admires  during the past three years.  visit, he said, was Junior Par­ 
Hurley's courage "to fight back and try to live the life he once had. I don't think many people would have that kind of courage." "He has a great sense of  "I can't repay everyone for everything they have done ex­cept by being here with them," he said. He said he also wants to thank the University Admin­istration, Dean Hofman and the  ents Weekend in February. The junior class flew him and his parents to campus for the weekend so he could partici­pate in the event with his class­mates.  



IF 
• 

YOU THOUGHT 
YOU COULDN'T  NOW YOU  
START AT  MAY  
THE  
TOP  

Explore career opportunities with an Industry leader which 
• 
Demands Entrepreneurship 

• 
Emphasizes career Growth Based on Individual Performance 

• 
Offers Immediate Responsibility 

• 
Provides a TOP-Rated Executive Training Program 


Please join us at an Open House Tuesday, August 30, 1988 Lafortune Student Center The Dooley Room 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Dress Is casual and we will be pleased to accept your profile or resume (If available) 
MAY The May Department Stores Company ' ... 
. i # , 4 i # # • ; ,f I i _. ~· ' • ' II *' • , • I I I • • I • #' o' ' r " • t' #' .. f. "' • . "' , .' .' .' , ~ .... ' '• ·• ~ t t ; • I, , l ' '• •.. '#. .i" I ·~ •,f' •I' '.,.. II 
Friday, August 26, 1988 
The Observer -page 7 
National Guard controversy quelled for lack of evidence 
Associated Press has been unable to escape the available in certain units, in­is no evidence to show Quayle the headquarters detachment's allegations since his nomina­cluding Quayle's. was helped in any manner," 138 allotted places as of April
INDIANAPOLIS--The ab­tion at the party's convention "We have found nothing Kiger said Thursday. "A cur­1, 1969. Guard records show no sence of hard evidence has ap­in New Orleans. anywhere in our files that sory glance doesn't show that more than 134 men were en­parently quelled the contro­The accusations emerged would indicate any problem he was anything special at all." listed during April, May--the versy over whether Dan with reports the candidate's whatsoever and frankly, at this The Cleveland Plain Dealer month Quayle joined--and June. Quayle used family influence to prominent family pulled• point, we've had a lot of com­reported Tuesday that the In­secure a spot with the National strings to get him into the plaints from the public saying diana Guard was filled beyond "Some of the units effective 
Guard at the height of the Viet­Guard in May 1969--six days 'enough is enough,"' said Capt. capacity and officials were un­1 April 1969 were limited to 93 nam War. before he became eligible for Cathi Kiger, a spokeswoman der orders to limit recruiting percent of strength. It clearlyRepublican presidential the draft. for the National Guard in In­when Quayle signed up on May did not include Quayle's unit. 
nominee George Bush initially National Guard officials dianapolis. 19, 1969. Headquarters detachment was dismissed the issue as "a have repeatedly denied Quayle "Based on the information But Kiger on Thursday authorized to fill to 100 per­tempest in a teapot," but his received preferential treat­that we released initially and released a general order which cent," she said, citing General vice presidential running mate ment, insisting places were the figures we've located, there had authorized officials to fill Order 25. 
Station bans Quayle parody song, airs parody apology 
the War in Indiana," was ruled the tune of "Danny Boy." 
Associated Press 
off-limits by WFBQ station The one-minute song, written 
INDIANAPOLIS--A song · manager Chris Wheat after a and sung by WFBQ air person­spoofing Dan Quayle's Na­close vote by listeners on whe­ality Hodji, goes, in part, "Oh, tional Guard days, banned ther it should be continued. Danny Quayle, we're sorry that Thursday by the radio station But the station's controver­we slandered you ... that first aired it, spawned a sial morning team, Bob "But we repent, the song was 
musical apology, of sorts. Kevoian and Tom Griswold, in­just in fun. We will desist from The original parody, ''I spent troduced a new song, sung to singing songs about you ... 

was not for me. I never went to 'Nam, I never saw Saigon. I

Welcome Back Students!! 
only watched it on TV." 

• 
Wheat pulled the song Tues­day, a day after receiving com­

To learn more about 
THE HOLY CROSS FATHERS 
plaints from listeners. He then asked for a listener vote to


AND BROTHERS 
gauge whether the station should keep playing it. 

Stop by and visit our display 
The final tally of the 24-hour call-in vote was 5,182 votes for the station to continue playing 


ACTIVITIES NIGHT '88 
it and 4,676 votes against
TUESDAY, AUG. 30th 7-10 pm 
playing it. Wheat said the 500-vote mar­


STEPAN CENTER 
gin was inconclusive and he feared the station would alienate half its listeners if the 
or contact 
song continued. ''Quayle has not been ac­

Fr. John Conley, CSC 
cused of being a draft dodger," said Wheat. "There has been

Vocations Director 
no proof of that. There was

Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 
enough in the song that we felt it was in our best interest to


239-6385 
discontinue it." 




Howto start 


your law career 
Defore you start 

law school. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nation-wide! And candidates who score over 40 on the LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 125 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 



I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. DON"T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
CLASS STARTING NOW! 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 [. South 8end Ave. 

Picasso Rembrandt Remington M.G. Escher 
Q) 
c 


LAST DAY
c 
rn 
Q) 
N of the 
() 
ART & LASER PHOTO SALE
Q)
.....
..... 
*Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 1 00 Master Artists 
*Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $12! 
*Wide Variety of photographs ..... beautiful landscap_es to high tech., ETC. 
*This is Your Last Opportunity to DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 
S. Dali 
:n 
0 
c 
(f) (f) 
CD 
OJ 
c 
~ 
OJ 
....... 
(f) (f) 
and you're alleged tryst with Paula Parkinson." 
The ending refers to allega­tions by former lobbyist Paula Parkinson that Quayle, the Re­publican vice presidential can­didate, propositioned her in 1981. Quayle has denied it. 
Wheat said the new song had drawn no complaints. 
"I spent the War in Viet­nam," written by Griswold and local musician Rickey Rydell, was sung to the tune of "Back Home Again in Indiana" and used such lyrics as "I spent the war in Indiana, Getting shot 
Japanese Artists) Hopper Russell Vasarely 


Viewpoint 
Friday, August 26, 1988
(>age 8 
Military continually strives for honor 
Many of you have heard about the Provost Office's exploration of how the Reserve Officer's Training Corps (ROTC) incorporates honor and ethics into its syllabus. According to the South Bend Tribune, the purpose of this in­quiry was to determine to what degree ROTC prepared midshipmen and cadets for the moral and ethical chal­lenges of a military career. An addi­tional purpose was to add "spit," if needed, to this ethical education. Since the Provost Office made no indication of examining any other department, some might reasonably deduce that the military profession is the only profes­sion with moral or ethical challenges. 
S. A. Lindsey 
guest column 
Lest anyone get erroneously defen­
sive, we should all remember that the 
military is controlled by civilians, and 
properly so. We in the military should 
accept external scrutiny, be it from 
politicians, media, or educators. 
However, the most valuable scrutiny is 
that which we offer ourselves. We are 
our own best critics, and we tradition­
ally do a pretty good job of policing our 
ranks. From a moral/ethical point of 
view, I think anyone familiar with the 
profession-of-arms would agree that 
the military places a lot of stock in these 
virtues. 
Let us review the bidding and see how 
the military stacks up against other 
professions in the moral arena. First, 
the military : 
U.S. News & World Report published a survey in its Jan. 12, 1987 issue on institutions inspiring the most confi­dence in America. The militarv received the highest rating, 63 percent. Religion placed second, 57 percent. 
The previous Commandant of the 
Marine Corps stated that if there were 
one drug-free element of society, it 
would be the Marine Corps. The mili­
tary was one of the first institutuons to 
implement mandatory drug testing. 
The Feb. 22 issue of Navy Times 
related Secretary of Defense Carlucci's 
policy of military clubs eliminating 
profanity and sexual overtones in their 
entertainment. 
Navy Times has also recently cov­ered the Navy's strong policy against fraternization, resulting in a senior of­ficer's court martial for an illicit affair with an enlisted woman. 
Doonesbury 
Every major naval vessel has a chaplain aboard. Every Marine in­fantry battalion has a chaplain as­signed as a special staff officer to. the commander, and accompanies the bat­talion on all field exercises and deploy­ments. 
The Navy and Marine Corps conduct two major charitable drives annually-­Navy Relief and combined Federal Campaign--and routinely achieve total participation by all personnel. 
ROTC is the only department at Notre Dame which requires its students to take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, a pretty moral and ethical document. 
If an officer writes a bad check or is cited for DUI, he jeopardizes his career. 
While Notre Dame has just recently discussed implementing an honor code, the three service academies have had, for decades, honor codes or honor con­cepts administered and enforced by 
midshipmen'cadets.  In  fact,  West  
Point's  motto  is  "Duty,  Honor,  
Country."  

Clearly Christian values should pose no spiritual dilemma to Notre Dame midshipmen. In fact, if the following examples of moral and ethical posture are any indication, the military may require less scrutiny than other insti­tutions: 
Chrysler Corporation admitted to turning back odometers to reflect lower mileage on new cars. 
Senators Hart and Biden withdrew from the presidential race as a result of immoral and unethical behavior. 
Many college athletic departments have recruited illegally and have sub­verted their schools' academic stand­ards. 
The medical profession is caught in a moral and ethical web regarding abortions and the right to life issues of the terminally ill. 
Not too long ago, it was considered unethical for lawyers to advertise. Now TV is replete with catchy sales pitches and solicitaions to "let Sam handle your lawsuit." 
Numerous businesses in southern California knowingly hire illegal aliens and exploit them for lower wages. 
Dan Rather openly degrades the Vice President of the United States on na­tional TV. 
Religious leaders have reduced their credibility by succumbing to lust and material temptations. 
A candidate for the Supreme Court admitted to usiftg illegal drugs while in a leadership position as a professor at a prominent law school. 

To be sure, every profession has its "ten percent." Every profession has moral and ethical challenges which test its members' convictions. Perhaps moralists question the ethical compat­ibility of a military profession more than of other professions because, in their simplistic assessment, the mili­tary has guns and guns kill people and killing is wrong. According to Rev. K. O'Neill Shanley of the Carmelite Spir­itual Center, Notre Dame more than anyone should realize the shallowness ofthat thinking: " ... The phrase 'Fight­ing Irish' goes far back in history when the Irish honored warriors in their cul­ture. The expression came to the United States due to-the large number of Irish soldiers who fought with George Wash­ington." So, Notre Dame midshipmen should find no moral inconsistency with a military career. True, killing is wrong. So are a lot of things. The Bible, in Ecclesiastes, acknowledges there is a time for killing and a time for war. But you will never find "killing" in any Department of Defense mission state­ment. 
The military profession has its roots in discipline, esprit de corps, and moral decency: To that claim we not only respect the scrutiny of the Provost and any other outside agency, we also ex­pect and demand strict adherence by all who wear a uniform to the words of John Paul Jones: "It is by no means enough that an officer be a capable mariner. He must be that, of course, but also a great deal more. He must be a gentleman of refined manners, punctilious courtesy, and the nicest sense of personal honor." 
Major S.A. Lindsey is a Major in the United States Marine Corps and is an Assistant Professor of Naval Science with Notre Dame's Naval ROTC unit. 



Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quote~ from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something in­tellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Garry Trudeau 

MAS5AOIU5~TT5? OKAY, teT's
MR. 5P~NC&R,

GOOP... HEY. C'IDV,
UH, 5Ufi?&... TH.4T'5 TAl<& A
RJ./008/SLAN[)

IN... UH ... New I MAN. IM aR&A!<. ...
15 ON/3 OF 7fl~
NOT UPON

!3NGLANP, \
50~TAT!3S!
8VeRY

R./GHF 
R/Nt<Y-0/NK

• N&AR N&IA/ 
1'3£AN[). " 

YORI< z 
I \ 


Quote of the Day 

"Be kind to strangers, for you may be entertaining angels." · 
Fr. James O'Neil June 28, 1987 
Editoral Board Operations Board



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman
poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphip Arts Manager.......... .... Marga Brun~
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
IS available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 



Accent
Friday, August 26, 1988 
pa e 9 

A JUnior senator from Indiana 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
tourists. For ten quid, they'll 
let you take their pictures 
with Big Ben in the back­
ground. Later you can show 
the snaps to the old folks at 
home, as proof that London's 
a crazy town." 
The punk types you see in America, I'm told, are more apt to be gen~ine dropouts. As children of the dropouts of the 60's, they take great pains to look really ugly. They want to outdo the preceding gener­ation and shock their parents who are anxious to be liberal in the amount of freedom they allow their kids. You need a scorecard to tell the dropouts who are protesting for a cause from their lookalikes who do it for money and from the I.R.A. freedom fighters who engage in lawless terrorism as though it were a form of pa­triotism. 
I'm not comfortable as a moral crusader. I didn't march for the civil rights at Selma or burn my draft card during Vietnam (though I still have an old one left over from my salad days, when my judgement was green), and I've never carried a picket sign demanding that Notre Dame divest in South Africa NOW! Still, I have the feeling that every time you climb on a bandwagon, you win something valuable, like the self -respect you need if from Indiana is facing ques­tions about the war he didn't go to; I'm no judge of how important all the fuss is, or should be, politically. As a campus counselor used to arguing with students about 
"Lads at 22 are tern pted to believe that anything goes, provided that it doesn't·frighten the horses. '' 
-----------•
Vietnam, I find it fascinating, 
though sad, to watch the bar­
nyard fowl coming in for a 
landing on the other fellow's 
turf. The junior Senator is a 
worthy man, and I may even 
vote for him. He didn't refuse 
to bear arms as a weekend 
warrior; he didn't escape to 
Canada, destroy his draft 
card, or burn the flag. 
But did he--thoughtfully or thoughtlessly, as the case may be--take the course of least resistance, resolving a soul-searching dilemma by calling for help over the phone? If so, that's his sin, although I'm not his judge. But should he be surprised to hear his critics say that when you cross a chicken with a hawk, you get a Quayle? 
If I had been the clergyman of his choice, what advice would I have given him when he was 22? Dante saw "the wretched souls of those who lived without disgrace and without praise" condemned to stay at the mouth of hell be­cause they refused to be com­mitted to great good or evil. Yet applying Dante's words to a draft dodger would have been inappropriately heavy. To tell him that instead of being hot or cold he was as unpalatable as tepid vomit would have been far too judgmental, as though he were guilty of the unforgiv­able sin. Reminding him of the fate of the nervous army of heavenly hosts in the Darby O'Gill stories would have been unbearably Irish and intolerably whimsical. You remember that folk tale about the angels who wouldn't fight? They were banished from heaven for failing to act like heroes of God; and they still survive in Ireland as leprechauns. 
The junior Senator from Indiana is not a leprechaun; but for the time being he has the tarnished credentials of a leprechaun trying to keep his feet on holy ground. When he was 22, I could have taught 
· him Longfellow's verse:

"Lives of all great men remind uS'We can make our lives sublime ;/And, departing, leave behind us-Footprints on the sand of time." Would he have listened if I had warned him to stay a knight in shining armor, worthy of a place in Camelot? Lads at 22 are tempted to believe that anything goes, provided that it doesn't frighten the horses. Later, you find them as casualties, weaker and wiser, left twisting in the wind, weeping over wars they never went to. 
They say any kid born in America can grow up to be President. On the way to the election, he can, theoretically, be anything he wants: Repub­lican or Democrat, Catholic or Protestant, pro-war or pacifist, AC or DC, pinko or fascist, good guy or punk, 


Perfect place for lengthy date 
ACCENT STAFF 

T
he Loft was described to me as an elegant intimate restaurant with excellent food--the kind of place you might take a date for the per­fect evening. While the food was good and the atmosphere cozy, the service was disap­pointingly slow. 
The meal began with the Baked Brie Almondine ap­petizer($4.25). The Brie was excellent. Other enticing ap­petizers on the menu were the Fettucine Alfredo ($3.95), Shrimp De Jonghe($4.50), and Stuffed Mushroom Caps($4.75). 
Feeling rather wealthy at the time, we splurged and paid the $3.95 per person for the Caesar salad. The salad, served. with the usual anchovy and parmesan cheese, was also nicely flavored with dijon mustard. 
The entrees, although served hot, were rather slow in appearing on our table. 
When they arrived, however, they proved to be excellent. 
The tender and juicy Filet Mignon($15.95) was a little on the medium side, but the bearnaise sauce was excellent as was the tomato gratinee. 
Another fantastic entree we tried was the Seafood Fet­tucine($13.95). The fettucine combined tasty shrimp and scallops sauteed in garlic but­ter with a cream sauce. The resulting rich dish is not rec­ommended for the small ap­petite. 
The Breast of Chicken Dijonaise ($9.95) was one of the least expensive entrees on the menu and also one of the best. The boneless breast of chicken, seasoned with shal­lots, chablis, and dijon mus­tard and topped with sauteed mushrooms looked fantastic and tasted even better. The chicken was tender and the dish was perfectly seasoned. 
The menu offered a tempt­ing array of homemade 
r~~ 
The Observer 

Father Robert Griffin relaxes with his 'best friend' Darby O'GIII. 
hawk, dove, or quail, or anything else, as long as it doesn't look like a chicken. You can't defend chicken, no matter how thick you slice it, because it always looks like baloney. 
I tried during Vietnam to be all things to all men, to help them live with their con­sciences, but I never warned anyone: "Don't say, 'Hell, no, I won't go,' especially if you're a rich man's son dreaming of being Presi­dent." We knew that eventu­ally children would ask, "Daddy, what did you do in the great war?" However, nobody worried, because in our books Vietnam wasn't a war that counted as much. 
A television evangelist describes a scene in hell : One unhappy soul keeps rushing around, looking into the faces of the damned. Finally, he's asked what he's doing. He answers, "I'm looking for the priest who told me I was OK with God." 
Did the priest who gave the absolution check with God, to make sure the soul was OK? Did the priest advising the 22-year-olds to skip the war check with the Green Berets, who had spent time in green hell, to see if student absen­teeism was OK with them? 
The campus chaplain may find that the chickens coming home to roost are his own birds. I'd hate to be the campus chaplain who has to explain himself to the Green Berets. How would I defend myself to those veterans for encouraging students not to go? 
desserts highlighted by the 
Chocolate Mousse Torte, 
Strawberries Dipped in Choc­
olate Rum Sauce, and 
Homemade Baklava. 
However, fearful that the 
slow service might make our 
meal last until breakfast the 
next day, we decided not to 
try these delightful-sounding 
desserts. 
In addition to soft drinks and iced tea, the Loft offers an excellent wine list, after­dinner cordials, and specialty coffees. 
While the Loft was intimate and elegant, the prices were on the expensive side--prices that warranted better and faster service. The courses were served hot, the portions were generous, and the ser­vers courteous, but the time between courses was far longer than necessary. If the Loft were to improve this problem, it could become that perfect place to impress a date. 

I 
n London this summer I saw the kids with blue spiked hair, dead eyes and made-up faces who wore black clothes like a uniform, and I wondered for whom or· what they were mourning. An Englishman broke the news to me: "They're not dropouts; they're entertainers posing as freaks to please the you hope to save your soul. You can also lose something important, like the good will of critics in a position to hurt you. They may hold your al­leged sins against you for years, until finally you wake up one morning to find them staring you in the face like chickens come home to roost. 
Presently, Senator Quayle 



Mike Moran I The Observer 

Diners enjoy The Loft's Intimate atmosphere and fine food. 
·~ ~~-------------------~-­
Friday, August 26, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A sportswriters meetmg for beginning 
TheLyonsHaliVolleyballTournament
writers will take place Monday at 7:30p.m. in will be Saturday, Sept. 3 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
The Observer offices at the third floor of LaFor­on Green Field. Each team must pay a $9 tune. Questions may be directed to Marty registration fee and must have a minimum of
Strasen at 239-5303 or 283-1471. -The Observer 
two girls. Proceeds will be donated to Dismas House. Signups will be held Monday and Tues­The ND men's tennis team will hold day in both dining halls at breakfast and dinner. 
tryouts Monday. All people wishing to try out Any questions should be directed to Krisshould reporta to the varsity outdoor courts at Malaker at x1915 or Rachel Lyons at x2895. -The
5:30p.m. dressed to play. The deadline for sig­Observer nups will be 12 noon on Monday. The draw will be posted at the varsity courts on Monday at The ND Martial Arts Institute will have 
5: 15 p.m., and a short meeting will be held prior its first workout at 6:30p.m. today at Rockne 
to the start of play to explain the rules. -The Memorial. All returning members should at­Observer tend. -The Observer 
Football ticket forms have been mailed Fisher Hall will hold its 'On the Grass 
to all students, first-year ticket manager Bubba Classic,' a two-person volleyball tournament, Cunningham said. Season tickets go on sale this Saturday and Sunday. Tournament field is Monday (seniors), Tuesday (juniors), Wednes­limited to 24 teams with a $10 entry fee per
day (sophomores and grad students) and team. Proceeds go to Andre House of Thursday (freshmen) from 1:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. Hospitality: Ifinterested, contact Mike Shimota 
at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. The seven-game at x1987. -The Observer season ticket costs $73.50. Those who do not receive applications may pick them up at the The ND lacrosse team will hold a meeting OBUD office in LaFortune Thursday and for anyone interested in trying out for the var­Friday from 7-9 p.m. -The Observer sity team today at 4 p.m. in the football 
auditorium of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
Eagle propels LopeZ to share of LPGA Championship lead 
Associated Press "I felt good, felt real posi­footer on the par 4 11th. 


SMC tennis takes 12th at Nationals 
By JANE SHEA was pleased with the team's SMC Sports Editor performance," said Head Co­ach Debbie Laverie. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team The Belles are looking for­finished their 1988 season by ward to another stellar season finishing 12th in the Nationals. with the return of most of their 
The Belles traveled to top players and the addition of Kansas City, Mo., May 21-27 to some strong freshmen who will compete with 54 other teams add the needed depth. representing states from all 
around the country. "Our goals for the fall season Jennifer Block, a junior, are to win Districts again,"
finished by ranking 19th in the said Laverie, "and to finish in country. Block was the highest the top three in our invitation­
finisher among the Belles. al." Sophomore Sarah Mayer was The team hopes to end the ranked 30th at the end of the season 12-0 after finishing 10-2 
competition. last season. 
Block along with Buffy Heinz The Belles have been prac­finished 25th in doubles compe­ticing since the middle of Au­tition. 
gust and face their first match 
"Everyone played well and I away September 8. 

Mitch Green drops charges againstTyson 
Associated Press knockout of Michael Spinks earlier this year.
NEW YORK--Boxer Mitch Green dropped assault charges Green had demanded a a~ainst heavyweight champion rematch with Tyson on Wed­
BUFORD, Ga--Nancy Lopez tive," she said. "You just have "I feel like I'm just hitting Mik~ Tyson o_n Thursday, ac-nesday, but said he would not scored an eagle and three to be patient." the ball fabulous, playing some cordmg to pohce. drop criminal charges against birdies on a four-hole stretch to Lopez had only one bad hole­really great golf,'' Alcott said. Green, accompanied by his Tyson even if a fight was ar­gain a share of the lead with -a double bogey 7 on the ninth Jan Stephenson was alone in l~wyer, told polic~, "I'm drop-ranged. defending champion Ayako when she hit a fat wedge over fourth place with a 69 despite pmg _the charge~,'' and left, ac-Green said Tyson hit him Okamoto of Japan at 5-under­the green into a bunker, leaving a number of birdie cordmg to pohce spokesman early Tuesday morning after par 67 in the opening round of chipped back and three-putted putts short on the slow greens. Sgt. John Clifford. he told the champ he didn't the $265,000 LPGA world from 30 feet. "I really thought it would be Green didn't give a reason fight hard in their 1986 bout be­Championship Thursday. Okamoto's front-side birdies faster,'' Stephenson said. "I for his decision, Clifford said. cause he had been cheated by 
Okamoto played a bogey-free came on putts ranging from 10-really could have shot a 64, but promoter Don King. round, using four birdies on the 20 feet at the first, fourth, fifth it's happened all year. It's been Green, a boxer who lost in front side to highlight her and ninth holes. the ring to Tyson two years In his statement, Tyson dis­
very frustrating." 
round. The defending champion Three others were dead­ago, told police that Tyson hit missed Green as "a punk and Eleven players in the elite didn't birdie the back side until him during a pre-dawn scuffle a true coward" who filed a cri­
locked at 70--Rosie Jones, U.S. 
field of 16 bettered par on the she two-putted from 25 feet for open champion Liselotte of Tuesday outside a Harlem minal complaint as "a hilly 6,107-yard Stouffer a 4 on the 16th. Sweden and Patty Sheehan. haberdashery. publicity stunt." Pinelsle Resort golf course in Okamoto said itwas too early "Mike Tyson hit me and ran Tyson cancelled an appear-chase of the LPGA's richest to get worry about getting only Sherri Turner, the leading like a sissy,'' he told reporters ance Wednesday at a Harlem first prize, $81,500. one birdie on the back. money winner this year, had a during a news conference Wed-police station where he was to 
"Finally they started to "Today's only the first 71 and was tied with Betsy nesday. receive a summons charging fall," Lopez said of her late run round," she said. "I have a few King, Colleen Walker and Judy Tyson's description, issued a him with simple assault, a mis­starting on the 14th. more days. Dickinson. few hours later, was equally demeanor. The boxer's 
All three birdies in the streak Lopez and Okamoto had a Sally Little and Kathy succinct: "He hit me first, I hit publicist said that Tyson had to were from 10 feet and her eagle one-shot lead over Amy Alcott, Postlewait posted 72s and En­back and the fight was over . . . see a physician because the 3 on the 405-yard 16th came on who offset a pair of bogeys with gland's Laura Davies, the 1987 faster than Spinks," a refer-hand with which he hit Green a chip-in from 25 feet. six birdies, including a 25-U.S. open winner, shot 74. ence to Tyson's first-round was hurting. 
The o..-Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, eccepts classified advertising from 10 Lm. untll4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The o..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts cluslfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-ilay classifleds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must 
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c'-actenl per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x1177 
USED TEXTBOOKS--ALL CLASSES! Bought & SokJ..Best prices! PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph.233·2342 
WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
··­

I LOST/FOUND I 
found: Pennsylvania Driver's License of 
Jim Carr. Check with The Observer of· 
lice. 

FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 683· 8889·287-6389 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ... l-219·291· 7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 255-3684-288-0955 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 1124 CORBY ST. $125' MO. OWN ROOM, SHARE BATH CALL BILL, ED, OR SCOTT 287· 7933 OR STOP BY. WE DON'T GET PHONE UNTIL FRIDAY 
. . . . .......-~-...............-·.............·-....~ ...~. ···'·...'..
.. 
HOMES & ROOMS FOR RENT.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 

WANTED 
I· 

HELP WANTED, DAYS AND NIGHTS APPLY IN PERSON MACRI'S DELl 
POLITICAL PHONE SURVEYORS NEEDED EARN EXTRA MONEY PART TIME TEMPORARY POSITIONS EVENINGS AND SATURDAY $4.75 .. $5.001-IOUR CALL DIANA AT 233-9826 OR 259·3520 
TICKETS TICKETS TICKETS Will buy tickets to any ND football game, home or away, student or GA. Call us loday and get $ to buy those bargain­priced textbooks. Call 4601, 3155, or 3157. 
Your football ticket application. Don't like football? I won't harass you about your lack of school spirit if you sell me your application. Call 2804 or 272· 7690. 
I NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH ANY WEEKEND SOON. CAN OFFER RIDE BACK. DAVE-:271-0758. 

FOR SALE 
I 

TANDY 1000SX,MNTR,PNTR&LOTS OF SFTWRE --$1000; CALL 259-4317 AFT 5 
SELLING MY FAITHFULL MULE (PLYMUTH VOLARE,76,STATION WAGON) FOR ONLY $150. UGLY AND RUSTY, BUT RELIABLE TRANSPOR­TATION. 272·8253, 23g:.7385. 
. ......................~. ··~ ..'(.'. '\.' ..·.:.··~; .................'. 
Pr. upholstered chairs $35, lamp $t 5, 4'x4' white carpet $tO, AMFM dual cas· sette deck $45. 291·4869. 
BMW 2002, '72, sunrf, engine reblt--runs 
like new. $4000 219-872·2636 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of NO and now Ws up to me to sell his blue NO "starter" jacket (size Medium) ijust like on page 4 of the bookstore catalog). Like new. Regularly $63.955 but it's yours for only $30. Call 2804 or 272· 7690 for this chance of a lifetime. 
1980 DATSANSX 200 RUN GOOD SOME RUST 232 5762 
BOOKS 
BOOKS 
Physics 127, French 101, The Holt Hand­book, An Ana!omy of Drama, Elemenfs of Style, The Portable Shakespeare, Epicoene, Dutchess of Matti, Doctor Faustus, Chushingura, 20 Plays of the No Theatre, 4 Plays of Chikamatsu. 
Call Witt at 2089 
12X12 CARPETS FOR SALE! GREAT CONDITION CALL 277-4587/284-5140 
'79 Mercury Cougar XR7, M;, VB, Good cond. $1800. 259-6404 (alter 5:00).

................................................................ 

I ITICKETS 
NEED 1 STUDENT TX FOR MICHIGAN GAME X2756 
HELP!! MY PARENTS ARE ARRIVING FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME AND I NEED 3 TIX DESPERATELY ..WILL PAY $$$$$ CALL DEBBIE AT 2939. 
' -:· ... :··••"•• ........... ~ ........ : ........ ¥ ....... , ... ~... , ... . 

I NEED MICH,MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAME TIXS.272-6306 
WILL TRADE MY 2 PENN ST OR 2 PURDUE GAs FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 MIG· . HIGAN GAs. Call Elaine 272-5989. 
FOR SALE MICHIGAN tickets call Greg 
234-6355 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL FOOTBALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-0058. 
NEED GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME. 
239-5303 OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. 
ASK FOR SHIRLEY. 
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR decided to go to Michigan instead of ND and be in their band. My sister is in the Band of the Fighting IRISH. My parents need to be at the MichigarvND game to prevent my siblings from killing each other and to see their beloved children at this game of high sentimental value. Help stop needless violence. Sell me 3 tickets and keep my family intact. $$ little or no ob­ject. Call 2804 or 272-7690. 
I want Michigan tixlllllllllllllll!l! Lots of 
them for BIG 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Call Amy D. at 1822 ASAP 
PENN STATE GA'S NEEDED. TOP 
PRICE PAID. 288-284 t 
MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX WANTED. 
288-2841 
HELPIII NEIOD GA TIX FOR MICH, 
STAN, MIA, RICE, PENN ST GAMES 
CALL CHRIS AT 272-0882 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STANFORD PURDUE MIAMI OR USC. VERY SERIOUS $$$$$$$$$$ IN· VOLVED.CALL JORGE • 2065. 
.. 'I

···:···;•••t."'','''':···;-·:·.................................. 

' .PERSONALS 
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION Loving couple, both college teachers, un· able to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible caring people ready to share our love 
with a much wanted baby. Medical ex­penses peid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect. 317·743·0791 
DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT IF INTERESTED CALL MARK x1177 
CLUB 23 NOW OPPF.N II STUFFED PIZZA lo ~ JWICHES 
BROTHER WILUA J. DOHERTY, 
c.s.c. 

Congratulations on your 45 years at the Post Office. GOOD JOBI 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ALUMNI·SENtOR CLUB OPEN: Wed·Sat 9:00 to 2:00AM $2 
cover Lifetime CLUB Membership $25 ""Sign up at the Club anytime or grab a torm in The Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
••SENIOR CLUB.. Stop by tonight and see what's up! OPEN 9:00-2:00AM WED-SAT ""SENIOR CLUB"" 
................................................................ 
TO MY BESTEST BUDDY AND A GREAT SMC CHICK, HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY!! COLLEEN CONLEY 
LOVE, JULIE 
• • • • .. • • • " •

;···:•···.·..···•·:•··:•··~ ...~..·:···~--··.;•"'"';"•:•f•~•(••: 
MATT BRESLIN!!!! You will forever be a God in my eyes II Even if you are a tainted man! 
HEY PAULtlll 
Did you enjoy your swim? You shouldn't let people throw you around like that..even if n was your birthday! Hope you had a great one! 
Congratulations to all the new members of the NO TRUMPET SECTION. You are now a part of a great traditian ..a tradition carried on in recent years by men like SMED, DR. BOB, and MR. SEXTON! Let's keep it up. This is going to be a great yearll! 
•••JUNIORS••• TIX STILL AVAILABLE FOR DUNES (SAT.) AND WHITE SOX (SUN.). SIGN UPS IN JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE..2ND FLOOR LA FORTUNE FROM 12·4 PM. QUESTIONS? CALL 239·51 17 
MATT "MY RAY OF SUNSHINE" 
BRESLIN I don't care what anyone else says. think you're pure as the driven snow. 
SEPTEMBER 7, 1988 SEPTEMBER 7, 1988 SEPTEMBER 7, 1988 
The night Chicago died .... and the Mets laughed all the way hamel 
HEY ROCK--Is it true the bugs were flying and the lice were a'scampering? 
ROBERTS 

ROBERTS Time once again to come inside my sugar walls. 
• ' ..... ".. ' • 
., . ~·r·:;···--··;···;.···.-·•:.:•··~o.··~··--···:••••••• ..•••• ........ 

~---~------~ ~ ----­
r---------------­
Friday, August 26, 1988 
The Observer page 11 



Schiraldi returns, cu·bs beat Braves 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA--Calvin Schiraldi pitched an eight-hitter and struck out a career-high 12 bat­ters as the Chicago Cubs beat the Atlanta Braves 6-1 Thursday night. 
Schiraldi, 8-8, suffered a leg injury in New York on Aug. 4 and went on the disabled list until Aug. 20. It was his second complete game and he has 109 strikeouts in 127 2-3 innings. 
The Cubs took a 1-0 lead in the third on Ryne Sandberg's 13th homer on a pitch from starter German Jimenez, 1-5. 
The Joss dropped the Braves to 43-84, worst in the major leagues. 
Reds 4, Cardinals 1 
CINCINNATI--Keith Brown allowed four hits for seven in­nings in his major-league debut Thursday night to lead the Cin­cinnati Reds past the St. Louis Cardinals 4-1. 
Brown, 24, allowed a pair of first-inning singles and then held St. Louis hitless until the sixth, when Willie McGee hit a solo homer, his third, with two out. 
Brown struck out three and walked two as he completed the jump from Class AA to the majors in one season. John Franco pitched two innings for his 27th save. 
Cardinals starter Greg Math­ews, 2-4, allowed three hits in 4 1-3 innings, but he walked six to help the Reds score four runs. 
player improve and get ready to be a contributor to the foot­

Backers 
ball team." 
continued from page 16 While the linebacking corps and he's a steady football is being rated as one of the player. strongest units on the team this 
"I think this has been a great fall, the players say that is only fall for Scott Kowalkowski," helping their attitudes. Stewart continued. "He's really improving on the fun-"We use it more as an incen­damentals with Frank being tive than pressure," said Sol­down. Kowalkowski has been car. "We're a group of guys able to step in and improve. It's quick to the ball, who play




;ni----n-1\' 
IW~'fPl'EI
I IWe're still here with a. . . 
11/2PRICE1 
I ~Q!:!!~ I YOGURT! I
Frozen Yogurt Stores 
I 
I 
~--------------------~®
1635 Edison Rd., South Bend 
I 

two blocks east of Notre Dame Stadium Phone: 271-9540 
Hours: Daily 11 am-11 pm 
'=~~~-:::.8, 
Brewers 4, Yankees 1 
MILWAUKEE--Rob Deer hit his 17th homer and drove in three runs and Teddy Higuera pitched a three-hitter for his fourth straight win as the Mil­waukee Brewers beat the New York Yankees 4-1 Thursday. 
The Joss, in a game that was a makeup of an Aug. 4 rainout, dropped the Yankees four-and­a-half games behind Detroit and two-and-a-half games be­hind Boston in the American League East. 
Deer, who missed two games this week with a sore shouder, hit a two-run homer off Rich Dotson, 9-7, to cap a three-run first after the Yankees had taken a 1-0 lead. 
Higuera, 11-8, retired the final 19 batters he faced and dropped his earned run average to 2.41, second lowest in the American League. He walked one and struck out nine to improve his career record against the Yankees to 9-2. 
Looking at National League weekend action to begin tonight, the New York Mets return home to Shea Stadium after a .500 West Coast road trip to face the San Francisco Giants, and the Los An~les Dodgers travel to Veteran's Stadium for a three-game set with the Philadelphia Phillies. 
In the American League, the Detroit Tigers face the Mil­waukee Brewers at County Stadium, and the Oakland A's 
take on Baltimore 
,..
.• 1 ·t: t. 
AP Photo 

Dave Winfield and the New York Yankees failed as the Milwaukee Brewers clipped the Yankees to gain ground on th~ Idle Detroit Tigers last night, 4-1. ' 
plan is to sell "Blue-Gold The Blue-Gold card may be cards" which admit students purchased by students at the
Bobinski 
and the general public to Notre same time they buy football
continued from page 16 
Dame hockey, baseball, volley-tickets next week. Ticket dis­
for marketing Irish athletics, ball, women's basketball, soc-tribution begins for seniors on 
but it was also right for the men cer and wrestling contests. The Monday afternoon, with win­
involved. McGowan had just all-sports pass will cost $10 for dows open from 1:30 to 8. 
graduated with a degree in students and $50 for the general "Like last year," said Cun­
American Studies after an in-public ($25 for children) and ningam, "we'll have five win­
ternship in the athletic depart-can be used for as many dows open for ticket distribu­
ment, Cunningham had just games1natches as the bearer tion. We start at the 50-yard 
received his MBA degree, and cares to go to. Fans also have line, section 28, and go up the 
Bobinski was ready to move on the option to purchase tickets rows and then move to section 
from the ticket manager's post, for one event only, with a $2 29 and move up, etc. But with 
a "relatively short-term job." admission fee for hockey and five windows, the order of dis-
Two marketing efforts are $1 for the other sports. tribution is not always going to 
already underway. One is a "This will help defray the work out perfectly. Some 
merchandising program of ath-costs of running the program," people might feel cheated be­
letic gear which the depart-said McGowan, "and help build cause they got row 60 and 
ment currently sells through support for some of the 'minor' someone who shows up a half­
the pro shops atthe hockey rink sports." hour later gets row 10 in the 
and golf course. A catalog of The general public Blue-Gold next section over. There isn't 
items was recently sent out to Card does not include hockey much incentive to sleep out. 
season ticket holders and games. Admission will still be "If someone does not have a 
alumni who purchase alumni $4 per game for non-students. ticket 'application, they need to 
football tickets. For students and the public pick one up at the ticket office 
"Those are shops which are alike, the card includes a 20% or in LaFortune before they get 
already under control of the discount to the Looking Glass in line. I would hate for some­
athletic department," added restaurant and Terrace one to wait in line and have to 
Bobinski, "and previously did Lounge at the downtown Mar-be turned away because they 
only over-the-counter business. riot, as well as free parking and don't have an application." 
The idea is certainly not to go 10% off gift shop items. Cunningham, a 1984 Notre 
head-to-head with the "This is like any other form Dame graduate, also looks 
bookstore, they do very well of entertainment," said Cun-ahead to a good turnout for stu­
and always will. We feel their ningham, who served as an in-dent tickets during basketball 
is a market for our athletic tern for athletic department season. 
gear as well." promotions last year while "Last year our numbers 
The second revenue-raising attending MBA school fulltime. were down significantly, in 
venture puts a pricetag of pre-"The competition is exciting, part because we had a few 
viously 'free' Irish athletic con-and it gives a perceived value more home games so tickets 
tests. The main objective of the to the sport." were more " 
baeft~~~.... ll£MNANT.S &'ALE .1 
Gallagher's Carpets 

> 

•WiJ.REHDUSE SAtE• 
GALLAGHER'S CARPETS 
Quality carpet at low low p(lces. Many styles and cOlors to choose 
from. Aemnaols, roll ends and lui rollS. Prices &lart al'4.00 per 
yd. to •1 0.00. Save money. ~lop and check our warehouse out 
before Y.OU buy. 

683·8800 
Located at 2428 u.s. 31 
Niles, MI. 
Open Mon. tllru Sat. 9 tilS* Brln9 your student I.D. for IS OFF total purcllase/ 
~-p~ag~e-1_2______________-_-_-_-_--~~~---~~~~~----·-----~_-_-________T_~~e~O~b~~~:~e~r--_-__~~--~---~------~_·_-~_-___________________F_r_id_ay_,_A_u_gu_s_t_2~6.~1-9~88 


Former minor leaguers to aid ND baseball squad 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Former minor league baseball players Jeff Nate and Fred Petersen have been hired as assistant coaches for the Notre Dame baseball team. 
The two coaches replace Ray Lentych, who resigned over the summer, and join pitching co­ach Mike Gibbons on Head Co­ach Pat Murphy's staff. 
"We're very lucky to have two guys of this caliber with Mike Gibbons and our graduate assistant Brian Galloway," said Murphy, who directed Notre Dame to a best-ever 39-22 record last season. " Nate, who will concentrate on the in­field and team defense, reached Class A level while a player for the Phillies, A's and Mets organizations. Nate had been coaching at the high school level in St. Joe, Mich. 

"Jeff Nate is one of the most successful high school coaches in the area," said Murphy. 
Petersen, of Lincoln, Neb., will be in charge of scouting and also will help Gibbons with the pitching staff. Another former Class A player,· Peter­sen assisted Murphy in 1986 with a Claremont-Mudd Scripps team that ended the season ranked lOth in the na­tion among Division III schools. 
McC~IIister fires opening round 67, takes early lead at World Series 
from a bunker, another afterAssociated Press driving into the trees, a third 

AKRON--Blaine McCallister with a three-putt. converted a birdie-birdie start "I was at rock bottom," Lyle into a 3-under-par 67 and a one-said. "I wasn't swinging well stroke lead Thursday in the and everythj.ng was wrong and first round ofthe $900,000 World at that time !thought if I could Series of Golf. scramble in with a 75 I'd be 
"In this wind, on this golf doing well." course, a 67, I feel like I stole But he had two one-putts for one," said McCallister, 29, who pars on the next three holes, qualified for this elite event including a 25-footer on the fifth with his first career victory last after what he called "a semi-month. shank," and then turned it all 
"Birdies on the first two around on the ninth hole. 
holes, it gets you in a good
frame of mind. I was just His hooked drive hit a spec-trying to get it in the fairway tator in the back and bounced and make pars. back onto the fairway. From 
"Pars are golden on this golf there, Lyle hit a 7-iron to 25 feet course," said McCallister, who and made the birdie putt. was playing the long, tough Firestone Country Club course It was the first of four con-for the first time in competi-secutive birdies, a string that tion. was capped by a 60-foot chip-in, 
Pars were more than golden that enabled him to finish with for a time for Sandy Lyle of a 69. Scotland. For the first three "It's a daft game," he said. holes, they were unattainable "I'm very, very fortunate to be for the Masters champion. in contention after that start." 
He bogeyed them all, one Mark Brooks, like McCal­lister a first-timer in this exclu­sive, international field, and Ian Baker-Finch of Australia shared second with 68's in the strong, gusty winds. 
Ken Brown, another British Ryder Cup player, and Jay Haas were tied with Lyle at 69. 
Cur~is Strange, the U.S. open title~holder and the defending champion here, was at 71. So· were Joey Sindelar, who leads the money-winning race, and PGA champion Jeff Sluman. 
Australian Greg Normam 
He leaves a position as head 
coach at Pomona College to 
return to Murphy's staff at 
Notre Dame. 

"It's a dream to come to a school like Notre Dame," said Petersen. "Murphy's a great person to work for. He gives you a lot fo responsibilities, ex­pects you to do it and gives you a lot of leeway. He allows you to coach. That's all an assistant can ask for." 
In the meantime, Gibbons is enjoying success of his own as a Class A player. The former University of Miami standout has an 0.79 earned run average and nine saves with the Salt Lake City Trappers, who made national headlines last year by setting a record for profes­sional baseball's longest win­ning streak. 
"Gibbons did an unbeliev­able job with our pitchers," said Murphy. "The problem is Gibbons is such a good pitcher that we may lose him to pro ball for good." 
Men's golf coach O'Sullivan will not return this year 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer has learned that Noel O'Sullivan will not return as head coach of the Notre Dame men's golf team. 
Also an official announce­ment naming a new coach for both the men's and wo­men's golf teams is expected from the athletic depart­ment today. 
No further information re­garding the circumstances of the coaching change was made available. O'Sullivan has coached the team for 16 years, and the Irish are un­defeated in dual meets since 
r,::19::7::7::::u::n::de::r::h::i::s:::tu::t::e:;la:=:e.===: 
HOMES & ROOMS FOR RENT 
272-6306 

was another shot higher at 72. ~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~==~~==:-1
Tom Watson took a fat 74. 
McCallister, now in his fifth season on the PGA tour, hit a 7-iron to four feet for his first-hole birdie. 
He followed up by hitting a driver from the fairway on the second hole and two-putting for birdie-4. 
His only bogey came on a three-putt on the ninth, but he got the stroke back with a chip­in birdie on the lOth. 
He took the lead alone with a 15-foot birdie putt on the 16th. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from~=~~-:~-~~~:~.~~~:~:=:·:~:~··~::·:p II 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and wish her a happy one. By the way Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
on pool tables tonight. LaFortune.
II 


, ~~~ 


Meet Spuds McKenzie On The Playing Field Fri-Sat Aug 26, 27 
1636 N. Ironwood between Edison & S.R. 23 

FREE DELIVERY!!! 271-0SUB 
-Live remotes w/ WAOR-WZZP -Live Band on Sat Night -Sub eating contests -Give away's all weekend long -Big Screen T.V. Fri & Sat nights 

BELP WAN,.ED 
Now an eaUng and drinking establishment 

Friday, August 26, 1988 

Lewis will run .relay in Seoul Olympics 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif.-­Carl Lewis, seeking to win four gold medals for the second con­secutive Olympics, definitely will run on the 400-meter relay team, U.S. olympic track coach Stan Huntsman confirmed Thursday. 
Huntsman also said that Cal­vin Smith and Dennis Mitchell would f>e a part of that team for the final in the Seoul Games, but the fourth spot still has not been decided. 
A flap over Lewis' status developed last Friday when Russ Rogers, an assistant co­ach in charge of the sprinters and relay teams, refused to let Lewis and his Santa Monica Track Club teammate, Joe DeLoach, compete on the U.S. 400-meter relay team in the Ivo Van Damme meet at Brussels, Belgium. · Rogers said he made the decision because neither Lewis, winuer of the 100-meter dash at last month's U.S. olym­pic trials, nor DeLoach, winner of the 200 meters at the trials, had practiced with the team at its European training base in Davos, Switzerland. 
Asked if he would still run the 

"Pittsburgh has lost a great friend.... He was a grandfather to everybody," said Pam Webster, wife of veteran 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 

Steelers' center Mike Webster. "I've never met anybody who
STU.DENTS, FACULTV &STAFF 
had an unkind word to say about Art Rooney." 
· Rooney attended thousands of wakes and funerals -some for people he barely knew -and 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen 
your understanding of yourself, your values, your 
treated custodians and chair­men of the board with equal respect. He once said, "How 
relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian 
community and service. 
would I like to be remembered anchor leg m the Olympics after the dispute, Lewis said, "At this point, no. At this point, I am just going to focus on the three individual events (the 100, 200 and long jump), and not the relay." 
A couple of days later, Rogers said that despite the furor, l.ewis still was a mem­ber of the relay team, adding, "No person in their right mind is going to kick Carl off _the team." 
Huntsman,t after conferring with Rogers, Lewis and others involved in the problem, said at the team's U.S. training camp at the University of California-Santa Barbara: "We have three sprinters who have proven themselves with­out a shadow of a doubt -Carl, Calvin and Dennis." 
He also stressed that Lewis, along with Smith and Mitchell, "would have to fulfill their obligations of practicing with the team in Japan" at its train­ing camp in Chiba early next month. 
Lewis, Mitchell and Smith finished 1-2-3 in the 100 at the trials in Indianapolis, followed by Albert Robinson, DeLoach and Mike Marsh. 
The Observer page 13 
-
Carl Lewis will compete In the 400-meter relay In an Olympic entrant In the 1oo-and 200-meter the Summer Olympics In Seoul, despite reports races and the triple jump. A related article Is at to the contrary earlier In the week. Lewis Is also left. 
Steelers' patriarch Rooney dies at 87 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH-Art Rooney Sr., owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers for more than a half­century and a beloved figure in American professional sports, died Thursday. He was 87. 
Rooney, whose Steelers stumbled through four decades of mediocrity before they be­came four-time Super Bowl champions in the 1970s, was hospitalized with a stroke Aug. 
17. He had been in a coma since Monday. 
"At 7:45 a.m. 'The Chief' ... passed away in his sleep with his family at his bedside," said Theodore Gelet, Rooney's per­sonal physician. 
"He will be remembered by all he touched for his innate warmth, gentleness, compas­sion and charity," NFL com­missioner Pete Rozelle said. "lt is questionable whether any sports figure was more univer­sally loved and respected." 
after I die? I'd like to be 
remembered as a good guy." 
Rooney, who loved horse 
racing almost as much as foot­
ball, bought the Steelers in 1932 
with $2,500 he had won betting, 
then watched them struggle for 
40 seasons before becoming the 
NFL's dominant team of the 
1970s. Only the Steelers have 
won four Super Bowls. 
President Gerald Ford once 
spotted Rooney at a reception 
at the White House Rose Gar­
den. He plowed through the 
crowd to shake Rooney's hand, 
saying, "I've always wanted to 
meet you." 

"He was a very humble per­. son," former Steelers quarter­
back Terry Bradshaw said. 
"Losing or winning, he was no 
different." 
Rooney was a shrewd entre­
preneur and racetrack oper­
ator who earned millions of dol­
Iars before turning over his 
sports empire to his five sons 
in the late 1960s. Despite his 
wealth, Rooney never left the 
decaying North Side neighbor­
hood where he grew up. 
Born Jan. 26, 1901, in Coul­
tersville, Pa., Rooney was one 
of eight children of a saloon 
keeper who moved his family 
to Pittsburgh in 1903. 
He once blamed his love of racing for the Steelers' early football failures: "I didn't give it the time. I was always going to the race track." 

WHEN: * September 16-18, 1988 • 
SOPHOMORE CLASS 
November 11-13, 1988 


DUNES ,.RIP
February 3-5, 1989 Tickets will be on sale in the Sophomore Class March 31-April 2, 1989 


Office on Friday from 2-4 pm. We will leave Saturday from the Main Circle at 1 0:00 am and
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 
return at 6:00pm. The cost is $4 and includes a 
(Badin Hall) 239-5242 OFFICE OF 

sack lunch without beverage. 
0MPUS 

COST: $15.00 

MINISTRY 

See You There! I 
------~----~-----------­
Friday, August 26, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
Assistants named for w-omen's basketball team 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
A former Big 10 star and a veteran assistant coach joined Muffet McGraw's staff as as­sistant coaches of the Notre Dame women's basketball team over the summer. 
Yvette Angel, a former all­Conference player at Ohio State, replaced Liz Feeley, who took an assistant coaching po­sition at Cornell in June. During her college career, the Buck­eyes won four Big 10 champion­ships. 
"I hope I can stress to the team what it takes to win,'' An­gel, a native of Buffalo, N.Y. said. "I want them to believe m .. whPn I tell them how much work it takes to win. I've been on a successful team; I can help this team in a positive
way." · 
Angel, 24, is fourth on Ohio State's scoring list and holds the school records for assists and steals. After leaving Ohio State, she played profes­sionally in Spain before spend­ing the last two seasons as a graduate assistant at Michigan State. 
Joining Angel and also new to the staff is David Glass, 26, formerly an assistant coach at Virginia Commonwealth. He replaces Bill Fennelly, who took the head coaching job at Toledo after two seasons at Notre Dame. 
"Tt'"' h.:u:if'::~llv a wholP rliff-:1r­

Top seeds at Open gain favorable draws 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Top seeds 
Steffi Graf and Ivan Lendl, who 
can both make tennis history 
by winning the U.S. Open, 
gained favorable draws 
Thursday for the final Grand 
Slam tournament of the year. 
Graf, seeking the first Grand Slam sweep in 18 years, opens against Elizabeth Minter of Australia, ranked 99th in the world. And ·she can reach the final without facing the only two players who have beaten her in the past two years, Mar­tina Navratilova and Gabriela Sabatini. 
Lendl, who can become the first man to win four straight 
U.S. opens, drew a much toug­her first-round opponent, 24th­ranked Amos Mansdorf of Is­rael. But, as in Graf's case, the players who pose the greatest threat are in the other half of the draw. 
Barring upsets, Lendl would face either fourth-seeded Andre Agassi or No. 6 Jimmy Connors in the semifinals. Lendl has beaten Connors 16 straight times and, although Agassi is the hottest player on the tour, the Las Vegas teen­ager lost in the first round here the past two years. 
Mats Wilander, who won the Australian and French Opens, and Wimbledon champion Stefan Edberg are in the other half of the draw. So are two­time Wimbledon champion Boris Becker, 1986 U.S. open finalist Miloslav Mecir and four-time Open winner John McEnroe. 
Edberg, who beat Becker in the 1988 Wimbledon final, could face him again in the Open quarterfinals. Edberg is seeded third, while Becker is No.5. 
Another headline match could take place even earlier. If the seeds hold, No. 2 Wilander would play No. 16 McEnroe in the fourth round. 
McEnroe, Edberg and Agassi play qualifiers in the opening round. Wilander meets Greg Holmes, Becker plays Todd Nelson and Connors faces Agustin Moreno of Mexico. 
Australian, French and Wimbledon championships, is trying to complete the first Grand Slam sweep since Mar­garet Court in 1970. 
The 19-year-old West Ger­man is seeded to meet No. 3 Chris Evert in the semifinals. Evert won their first six matches, but Graf has won the last six. 
Evert, upset by Lori McNeil · in the quarterfinals last year, may get a chance for revenge this year. Each player would have to beat three unseeded op­ponents to set up the rematch. 
Navratilova, the No. 2 seed, has a difficult path to the semi­finals. 
Her opening-round opponent is Catarina Lindqvist, who has reached the fourth round at the Open the last three years. And looming as a likely quarterfinal obstacle is eighth-seeded Natalia Zvereva, the Soviet teenager who has beaten Nav­ratilova twice this year. 

ent level here than at VCU," Glass said. "I don't want to take anything away from them. We had a good program. We were 21-8 one year. But that was the year everything came together. Everyone was an overachiever. We reached all our goals. 
"Here, there is unlimited po­tential. We could realistically put together a top-20, NCAA tournament team. I can't see any reason why that won't eventually happen." 
camps, Notre Dame was inter­ested in about 100 of them, then cut the number down to 35 who they contacted. From that, ac­cording to Glass, there are about 16left who are interested in playing for McGraw at Notre Dame. 
Visits to the players' homes can begin Sept. 17. Some of the high school seniors will be visit­ing campus before the Nov. 9 early signing date. 
"The Class of '89 is a strong 
Both Angel and Glass began class," Angel said. "We can their recruiting tasks over the bring ·in some really good summer. players. These arE#the players 
"I took the job on July 1 and we want, because they could be left right away to go on the road the ones that really make the for three weeks," Glass said. difference in our program." 
From all the players at the Glass and Angel will be 
trying to help the team recover fron the loss of two lkey starters. Last season's MVP Sandy Botham and floor leader Mary Gavin have both graduated, leaving holes in the 
lineup. 

"There are some things to 
make up for," Angel said, "but 
we still expect a lot. We like to 
see some changes: some more 
enthusiasm, more upbeat play, 
a running game, pressure 
defense." 

"We've lost an awful lot," 
Glass said. "But with Heidi 
Bunek back and the other tal­
ent we have, we should still be 
good. Last season Notre Dame 
won 20 games, there's no rea­
son why we can't go even far­
ther this year." 


ment as the odds-on favorite to capture the title Opens. A story outlining her path through the 
~ffiDITffiillrnffiW 
Mike "Plug" Autry 

Love, 

Papa Plug, Mom 
Nick and Freddie the Free Loader 
Go Irish Swimmers! 
Notre Dame Commmunication & Theatre Film Series at the Snite Individual Admission $2.00 
The Cheat (1915) 
Tuesday 7:00 Considered shocking in its day, Cecil B. DeMille's melodrama of 
sex and scandal in high society. 
Romeo and Juliet (1968) Tuesday 9:00 Franco Zeffirelli's classic adaptation of the Shakespearean play. With Olivian Hussey and 'Michael York.· 
Tonight at the Snite, D.O.A. 7:30 & 9:30 CALL THE FILM HOTLINE 239-7361 
POSTERS 
• 


and ready made frames 1n the area 
HANS -RINTZSCH 
Luggage Shop I Gifts 
UNIVERSITY PARK MA MISHAWAKA 

D.OA(1988) 

Tonight 7:30 & 9:30 Dennis Quaid has 24 hours to live and he's out to find the killer who poisoned him. Meg 
Ryan also stars in one of this year's more underFated and stylish thrillers. 
Citizen Kane (1941 ) Monday 7:00 &9:15 Orson Welles directs and stars as a newspaper publisher corrupted by power and politics in perhaps the greatest 
American film ever made. 

Friday, August 26, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
DINNER MENUS 
-
Notre Dame 
Grilled Rueben Oven Baked Chicken Seafood Newburgh French Bread Pizza 
Hamburg words 
15-breve 34 Hired helper 35 Sow 16 Sadat 36 Utah senator 

COMICS 
17 Cord for a 37Tot kaffiyeh 38 Shredded-cab­18 Bursae bage dishes 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
19 Verses 39 Tapestry 21 Tropical trees 40-Flow 23 Strapped-on (Orkneys sea 
shoe basin) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



ACROSS 24 A Romance language

Saint Mary's I Spar 
25 Carpenter or5 Jeff Davis's army follower

org. 
26 "-home is

Tacos 
8 V.I.P.'s at tax his castle"

Batter Fried Fish time 
27 Bow or Barton
Monterey Bake 
12 Staple in 30 Model T 

Deli Bar 
Sorrento necessity 13 Half, in 31-loss for 


Berke Breathed The Far Side 
Gary Larson 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
~ 
y 
TUESDAY, AUG 30 STEPAN CENTER 
Become involved in Notre Dame's Many Organizations and Clubs. Sign-ups and information available. 
41 Nabokov novel 42 Riotously colorful 44 Small, feisty one 48 Honorific for Gandhi 49 "Appointment in-" 50 Astronaut Shepard' 51 Mrs. Leonowens 53 He came on after Monroe . 54 Strumpet 55 Neighbor of Minn. 56 Hottentots of 
SW Africa 57 Navy V.I.P.'s 58 U.S.N. police 59 Recipe abbr. 
DOWN 
I Kind of ray 2 Nile dam 3 Criterion 4 L.A. suburb 5 Cartoonist 
Addams 6 Droop 7 Mobile people 8 Memorable 
cellist 9 Sevilla silver 10 Northern 
highway II Lip 12 Annie Oakley 

"All right! Hand me the tongs, Frank. ... We got us a big den of raHiers here." 
-
Sports 
Friday, August 26, 1988
page 16 
Athletic deoartment Undergoes shakeup 
By BRIAN O'GARA Bobinski's marketing assis­
Sports Writer tant. 
"The tradition and name of It's a marketing dream--sell Notre Dame has always been Notre Dame athletics. our greatest marketing force." But it is by no means an easy said Bobinski, a 1979 Notre task for the Notre Dame Ath­Dame graduate. "There is no letic Department which, with a question that football carries a series of personnel moves early great deal of the burden and in the summer, has undertaken pays the bills, and basketball a marketing project to helps significantly. But we generate income for some of think the other sports deserve the school's previously "non­more recognition, and the cost revenue" sports. of running the athletic depart­
Mike Bobinski, the Notre ment is getting higher and Dame ticket manager and as­higher. sistant business manager for "Our main sources or reve­the past four years, has been nue are gate receipts, televi­named associate ·business sion, radio, parking and a little manager and will direct Notre from guides that the sports in­Dame's newly-established ath­formatit>n department letic program. Bubba Cunnin­develops. But with the increas­gham, former Alumni Associa­ing costs of running a Division tion assistant director, has I athletic program, we're replaced Bobinski as ticket trying to generate more money manager and will consult with in order to field more nation­his predecessor concerning ally competitive teams in some marketing Irish sports, partic­of these sports." ularly non-revenue teams. Not only was the timing right George McGowan, a May 
see BOBINSKI, page 11

graduate, will serve as 
Deep Irish linebacker corps looks to be anchor of defense 
By STEVE MEGARGEE at Ned, Pritchett, Flash figures to see quality playing ach George Stewart. "It's not year, can be the big-play defen­
Assistant Sports Editor Gordon--those three guys all time. a fact of his slipping some. Un­sive back the Irish have lacked started last year. Frank Starns "We've got three really good like the two years I've been in recent years.
Anyone questioning the has played an awful lot, and inside linebackers, and Donn here, we have competition at "The thing I want to stand amount of talent on the Notre Andre Jones ·has come on. Grimm can contribute too be­all positions on the team. Pre­out more from last year'sDame linebacking corps need They're just getting better cause he's a solid player," said viously there was a vast group is the ability to make the only take a look at the Irish overall." Bolcar. "We don't lack for separation between starters big plays," said Stewart. "I 
Pritchett and Bolcar, a playing ability. It'll be interest­and their backups. It's a credit think Andre has the ability to 
On the inside, tri-captain Ned second"team All-America se­ing to see how we're used to (recruiting coordinator) be a big-play person. I know he Bolcar and fifth-year senior lection by the Associated Press during the season. All of us Vinny Cerrato."· can hit you. He proved that as Wes Pritchett, the top two tack­last year, figure to rotate with want to be on the field. I think Jones, while not feeling too a freshman with the kickinglers for the Irish a year ago, Stonebreaker at the two inside it can be a positive factor for much pressure about his new game. We're going to try to putfind themselves sharing time linebacker slots. Stonebreaker us." role, is pleased with the way him in a position to make bigwith junior Mike Stonebreaker has returned impressively Freshman Troy Ridgley, a the unit has performed so far plays. Whether or not he does • 
On the outside, Darrell after missing a year with aca­former Parade All-American this fall. that is up to Andre." 'Flash' Gordon, last year's :lemic ineligibility. from Baden, Pa., also has im­''Things are going really well Sophomore Scott Kowalski team sack leader, misses a pressed coaches this fall. so far," said the Hyattsville. backs up Starns at the other couple of days of practice with "He practiced 20 days this At outside linebackers, the Md., resident. "The basic un­stop, and has been working on bruised ribs and returns to see spring," said Alvarez. "He current starters are. senior derstanding of the defense is the first team recently with that he has lost his place on the started out a little rusty, but he Frank Starns and sophomore coming a lot better. We're not Starns nursing a minor injury. 
a 
CO had an outstanding spring, and Andre Jones, who has passed thinking of what we need to do; "Frank has been steady,"
"I don't thmk there's a place he's picked up where he left Gordon in the past few days. we're just reacting. It's all said Stewart. "He takes care other than running back where off." "Flash will play probably the second nature now." of his responsibilities on the we have so much experience Sophomore Donn Grimm, the same amount as Andre during Stewart is hoping Jones, one field he needs to take care of, back," said linebackers coach brother of the Washington the season," said defensive of the most aggressive players see BACKERS, page 11Barry Alvarez. "When you look Redskins' Russ Grimm, also ends (outside linebackers) co-on the Irish special teams last 

.. 
Pay to see 'minor sports'? It could· be ·worse 
For one dollar, you can .buy a rubber snake, a Hot Wheels racer, or maybe even a hula-hoop if you find a good sale. Or, for one dollar and a flash of your student ID, you can see the Notre Dame volleyball, baseball, wrestling women's basketball or men's soc­cer teams compete. 
For two dollars, you can pick up a noisemaker that sounds like a bird or perhaps a set of square marbles at your favorite toy store. Or, again with a student ID, you can see a Notre Dame hockey game at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center this winter. 
For 10 dollars you can purchase a case of pretty good beer, but we at The Observer are not allowed to tell you about that anymore because of the revised alcohol policy. 
So you might just want to spend your 10 bucks on the new "all-sports pass," which gets you into all the volleyball, baseball, wrestling, women's basketball, men's soccer and hockey games you care to see. You'll need a 21 ID for the former; a student ID for the latter. 
No more flashing the ID and walking right fn. You can still do that in the dining hall for a tasty dinner of chicken stir fry, but Notre Dame students now have to shell out a dollar or two to see some of the Irish sports that used to be free. 
What's this campus coming to? 
Actually, the Notre Dame athletic department is not up to anything underhanded or t!ven new. Al­though students are not going to like giving up a tlollar or two to see events they're used to seeing for nothing, students at other schools in this state would be happy to pay the new Notre Q.pme prices. 
At Indiana, women's basketbaiT, men's soccer and women's volleyball·carry a $2 charge for students. 
Marty 
Stras~n 
Sports Editor 


Baseball and wrestling are free, but an assistant manager in the Hoosier ticket office said a $2 charge for those sports is being considered. 
For a "brass pass," which gets one into the wo­men's basketball, men's soccer and women's volley­ball games all season, IU students pay $17. 
Purdue students pay $1 for baseball and wrestling, and $1.50 for women's volleyball and women's bas­ketball games. Season passes are sold for each indi­vidual sport, but no multi-sports pass is offered. 
So while attendance might drop off a bit at Notre Dame, it probably woul<'l increase at other schools if the same prices were charged for the same sports. In short, we've been spoiled in the p9-st. 
The reasoning behind the student prices is simple and understandable. Running a competitive college athletic program costs money, and prices are not going down. · 
The Notre Dame athletic department approved more scholarships for many of its varsity sports beginning this school year, and most are adding toug­her teams to their schedules. The baseball, hockey and men's soccer teams are coming off their best seasons ever, the volleyball and women's basketball teams have been gunning for the NCAA Tournament in recent years, and the wrestling team has added an outstanding recruiting class to an already talented bunch. 
The coaches think watching their teams play some of the best competition in the country is worth a dollar or two. They're right. The charge is bound to keep a few people away at the beginning, but once Irish fans see their teams winning games against the nation's best as more scholarships start rolling in, you can bet the stands will start to fill up. 
Yes, a dollar or two is a lot of money at college. But I'd rather see a Notre Dame sport than play with a hula-hoop or a square marble any day. 











