-~~ ~~-~----------------~ 


etc.
Irish Extra 
cloudiness today 
Michigan State Bars
Notre Dame vs. 
chance of Low in the
Michigan State Campus Arts Scene 



VOL. XXII, NO. 19 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16. 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Interior of Sacred Heart to be renovated 
By MICHAEL WELLS gilding of the golden dome, as News Staff well as the refurbishing of the stained glass windows in Sa­A small crew of designers cred Heart. According to and craftsmen began work this Gruenke, the interior restora­past Monday on a sample of the tion of the church is a separate interior restoration work they job from the stained glass, and hope to do for Sacred Heart would possibly involve replac­Church in the near future. ing the pews, carpeting and al­
Scaffolding reaches from tar, in addition to the refinish­floor to ceiling between two of ing of the walls. the columns on the right hand side of the church, as the group Don Dedrick, director of the tries to "seek what was the Notre Dame physical plant, decor of the church" in decades said that the Conrad Schmitt past, says decorating foreman firm was presenting their ideas Ronald Gruenke. for the job because of their ex­
According to Gruenke and perience in the two previous head interior decorator Sue restorations of the church, and Konet, both with Conrad because "there aren't a lot of Schmitt Studios, their com­people doing this kind of pany has not yet been con­thing." tracted for the extensive Although work in the church renovation job, but is only at began on Monday, research on this point submitting a sample. the previous design of the build­"We're basically putting back ing's interior was begun two stencils where there were sten­months before, said Konet. cils, gold where there was "Prior to this Monday, the gold, ... a sample of the studio has been doing research murals," said Konet. "We're from old photographs, the 
Sacred Heart Gets A Face Lift

submitting a color scheme· Notre Dame archives here, and from old photographs." studying the techniques of been contracted for the extensive interior renovation Conrad Schmitt Studios is the Gregori." and restoration planned for Sacred Heart in the near same firm which is handling future. the nearly completed re-see HEART, page 7 
approaches u.s. 

Texas gulf coast, Mexico prepare for hurricane 

Associated Press  people  laid  in  supplies.  
Homeowners covered windows  
Associated Press  BROWNSVILLE,  Texas- and doors with plywood and  
Thousands of coastal residents  shatter-proofing  hurricane  
KINGSTON, Jamaica-Prime  from Mexico to Louisiana fled  tape. Offshore oil workers left  
Minister Edward Seaga esti­ to higher ground yesterday as  their rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.  
mated  Hurricane  Gilbert's  fierce Hurricane Gilbert sent  Bob Sheets, director of the  
damage in Jamaica at $8 bil­ the first of its storms against  National Hurricane Center in  
lion, and relief supplies began  Texas  after  thrashing  the  Miami, said the 450-mile wide  
arriving yesterday for some of  Yucatan Peninsula.  storm  would  likely  make  
this Caribbean island nation's  "This is a killer storm," said  landfall  this  afternoon  along  
half-million homeless. Sports stadiums, churches, government · buildings and movie theaters were used to house an estimated 150,000 people, the government said. Seaga, who flew across the island to inspect damage Wed­ ': , '···Jn'll1 _ _,_ ---·-:. __ ·j•Ia>! ,.,•. ,~-, .l~Ri.Ji,, . • .<J{:i . . . .' . . -aiii""" ~ ,.,. \ '1~7-.; . J ~-. t :t..:.J •...:. 'AP Photo Hurricane Gilbert passed the tip of the Yucatan Peninsula at 1 0 a.m.  Gordon Guthrie, director of the Florida Division of Emergency of Management. "I feel sorry for anybody wherever this hits." The death toll from the storm's onslaught through the Caribbean islands and the  the northern coast of Mexico or southern Texas. In Brownsville, Texas' sout­hernmost city, winds began to pick up around noon under overcast skies. Lorena Curry, who has lived in Brownsville since 1935, said  
nesday, said entire towns were  Wednesday. The ~hurricane  moved over Jamaica and Grand Cayman  Yucatan was at least 36, and  she plans to ride out the storm.  
wiped out and that the govern­ earlier in the week, causing great destruction in its path. Residents along  damage estimates reached $8  "I've  been  through  them  
ment's priority was to rebuild housing. The government's Jamaica Broadcasting Corp. reported at least 19 dead and officials  the Texas coast are now bracing for possible hurricane force winds. was still out over much of the The Jamaica Information country, including Kingston. Service said Seaga was accom­Yesterday only 10 percent of panied on his tour of the island  billion. By early evening, the first thunderstorms and showers in the outermost spiral bands of the storm had reached sout­ before. I'm going to stick around at my home." At 5 p.m. CDT, the storm cen­ter was about 340 miles sout­heast of Brownsville, moving  
feared the death toll would mount as communication was reestablished with the interior. Five people were reported  Jamaica's telephones were back in service. said Marge Boberschmidt, a spokeswoman for American Telephone and  by U.S. ambassador Michael Sotirhos and William Joslyn, director of the U.S. Agency for International Development.  heast Texas, forecasters said. Texas Gov. Bill Clements issued an emergency proclamation allowing local  west-northwest at about 15 mph and dumping about 10 inches of rain, according to the National Weather Service.  
killed in the Dominican Republic and 10 in Haiti, where the military government declared a state of emergency yesterday on its hard-hit south­ern peninsula.  Telegraph. AT&T secured a single tele­phone line in Jamaica Wednes­day night and began relaying one-page messages from stranded Americans to worried  They flew aboard a U.S. Air Force C-130 aircraft, stopping in Montego Bay on the north coast, to deliver plastic tar­paulins donated by the United  authorities to suspend laws "to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the public," includ­ing such things as the direction of travel on highways. Grocery stores ran low on  The weather service issued a hurricane warning for Mexico's northern coast and the southern half of the 370~mile Texas coast from Brownsville  
Four ricane's  days after the hur­passing, electricity  friends home.  and  relatives  back  see JAMAICA, page 7  bottled canned  water, tuna and  batteries, bread as  see GILBERT, page 7  



page 2 
IN BRIEF 
No criminal charges will be filed against the owner , 
of a 400-pound black bear that mauled a father and his 
two sons, the Hamilton County prosecutor said. Prosecutor 
Steven Nation said Thursday a review of police records 
shows no evidence of criminal negligence, but he said the 
bear's owner, Ron Miller, had agreed to build a more 
secure cage for his pet. William Wiley, 35, and his 11-and 
4-year-old sons were injured Saturday night when they 
went to feed Miller's animals while Miller was out of town. 
The bear squeezed under a chain link fence and bounded 
toward them. -Associated Press. 
A federal office of rural mental health should be established to address an increase in suicide, family vio­lence, depression and emotional problems in rural America, according to a study released Thursday by the National Mental Health Association. The study, entitled "Rural Mental Health: the Time for Action Is Now," also recommends a $50 million annual increase in funding for a federal alcohol, drug abuse and mental health services block grant program and 3: broader crisis counseling net­work for farmers. "We're fighting a myth that rural America is a healthier place to live. ·If that was ever true, it's not true today," said Dr. Peter G. Beeson, director of planning for the Nebraska Department of Public Institu­tions -Associated Press. 

OF INTEREST 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshops will be held in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, Sept. 18th at 2:30p.m., and again on Tuesday, Sept. 20th at 10:00 p.m. New .or returning ministers may attend either workshop; partic­ipation in one of these workshops is mandatory for taking part in eucharistic ministry on this campus. -The Observer 
Logan Center Council for the Retarded invites new and old volunteers to this Saturday's recreation per­iod: Safety Rec. We'll have a firetruck, ambulance, and police car there to tour! ND students meet in front of LaFortune by 8:45 a.m.; Saint Mary's College students will be picked up by 8:45a.m. in front of Holy Cross Hall. Questions? Call Karen x4950 or Jim x3795. -The Observer 
''Cry Freedom" willbeshownin the Carroll auditorium at Saint Mary's College at 7 p.m. The film, which ad­dresses issues concerning apartheid and human rights in South Africa, is being sponsored by NMMC Amnesty International. Admission is free and all are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Take Time for Prayer tonight, 6 to 11 p.m. in a mini-retreat for women at 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. (4 blocks south of the circle.) A light meal will be included. Donations accepted. For more information contact Sr. Arlene Kniola at 288-2665. -The Observer 
A Spanish Liturgy will be held at 11:oo a.m., Sunday, Sept. 18, in Farley Hall's Chapel. Fr. Don McNeil will preside. -The Observer 
Voter Registration for students who wish to register to vote in St. Joe county for the fall election may do so at the League of Women Voters table in University Park Mall on Saturday, Sept. 17 from 10:00 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Sunday, Sept. 18, from noon to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

De6ign Editor .. .. .. .. ..... Bernadette Shilts Etc. Layout.. ......................... Tim Irvine De•ign A.,iatant ............. Janice O'Leary Layout Staff................... Bill st. Laurent Type•ettera .................... Molly Schwartz ................................................. Jeff Derr ........................................... Paul Jackson Photographer• ................. Rob Rebovich New• Editor................... Matt Gallagher ...................................... Sheila Lombard Copy Editor ................... Ingrid Schmidt Irish Extra Copy Editor .. Marty strasen Sport• Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Irish Extra Layout.. ........... Alison Cocks Viewpoint Layout..... . . Annette Rowland .................................... Annette Rowland Etc. Copy Editor ............. Susan Buckley 
The Observer Friday, September 16, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Some things makesense, but then again ... 
Sometimes things seem to make a lot of sense. Chris Then agai~, sometimes, everything seems to make absolutely n() sense. Murphy 
Some of the newsworthy events of the week prove the aforementioned theory's utility. . Editor-in-Chief 


For example, isn't it great that U.S.A. Today ~i::.--~---~-------~ 
now has a television show? It's shown on WSJV, the ABC affiliate in Elkhart, at 6:30 p.m. My question to the producer Steve Friedman is which came first, the chicken or the egg. 
U.S.A. 
Today, the newspaper, certainly has found its place among the country's more useful newspapers. The weather. page, the sports wrap-ups, and the state-by-state round-up are superb ideas for a national newspaper. But the brevit~ ·<tnd lack of insight in the articles remind one observer of· a television show in print. The newspaper concentrates on a "television news style'' that usually publishes human_ interest events as their top story. 

Just in case you missed the first week of 

U.S.A. 
Today, the televison show, here's a wrap of some of the more ''U.S.A. Today-ish'' stories. 


First, the sports department enlightened. the viewers as to why the Russians claim they in­vented the sport of baseball. In their promo sheet, the headline read, "Cooperstown is being threatened by the Russians." I'm sort of surprised this didn't make at least the cover story of U.S.A. Today, the newspaper .. 
Other innovative ideas are the 30 second debates with George Bush and Mike Dukakis. The U.S.A. Today reporter asks each of the candidates on the screen what he would say to the other. Also, don'.t miss the new financiers, the "Buck family, a cartoon bunch who tackle money problems on their own, while real life experts give financial advice." Sounds rather 
U.S.A. Today-ish. I'm waiting for the Jose Can­seco graphic in which Jose comes through the set to step on the 40-40 record book in your living room. The U.S.A. Today debut makes sense. So did the results of another debut this week, this one in the Arizona desert. 
The Monday Night Football game this week marked the Phoenix Cardinals' home debut in Sun Devil Stadium. This fits into the "no matter how much things change, they stay the same" category. 
The Cardinals have gone througn nine coaches in the last twenty-seven years. They've gone through high draft choices that don't produce, and they've gone through a city that supports winning franchises. 
Throughout all these troubled times, one 
Saturday, September 17 DANCE, DANCE, DANCE 

Ml-8 

thing remains constant--the ownership. This ownership left a city that supports winning franchises and has drawn crowds the compa­rable to New York and Los Angeles. But when things go bad for a team and crowds start dwin­dling, the owner just picks up and leaves town. Oh well, I hope Phoenix fans are patient. Twenty-seven years of lo~ses, most by seven points or less, become very frustrating. 
Speaking of frustrating, how about the latest booklet mysteriously circulating our campus grounds. This fits into the "things making ab­solutely no sense (or do they?)" group. 
For those of you who haven't seen "the stu­dent guide," it's a student's joy. The booklet lists advertisers from the South Bend commu­nity and encourages students to frequent their establishments. One interesting advertisement that should draw your attention is the liquor store ad on page 31. 
To this writer, it's interesting that student publications can no longer print alcohol adver­tisements, but a student guide out of In­dianapolis, with no previous circulation on campus, makes a mysterious appeauance and can print whatever they want. And, yes, the cover has the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College stamped right on it: 
I guess some things do and don't make sense. 
Sunday, September 
18 

CLUB TED 
Question: How do yo_u reach over 12,000. people dally? . · · Answer: Buy Observer ad space Call 239-6900. 
Thursday, September 15 Comedian Taylor Mason beginning at 9:00 pm . 
Campus D.J.'s open stage-open mike 
ne Olllenw (USPS 599 2..t000) is published Monday throuab Friday Cllc:ept 
play the hits!
durin& exam and vacation periods, ne Oblener is publilhcd by the students of the University of Notre o.mc and Saint Mary's CoUqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­
me, perform, have fun. 
ed for So40 per year (W per semester) by writina ne Oblener, P.O. Boll Q, Notre 
9:OOpm--2:OOam
Dame, Indiana 46,6, ne o..ner is a member of ne Allodaled Pna. All reproduction riahts arc 
Check personals for times 
racrved. 

Friday, September 16, 1988 The Observer page 3 

·----­
... . ~ 
-The Observer I Rob Regovich 
the purchaser lives to conduct a background check, but would not have required one. 
" 

In the closing moments of debate, waiting period sup­porter William J. Hughes. D­N.J., urged members to "show how tough we are when it comes to bucking the National Rifle Association and the gun lobby.'' 
NRA backer Rep. Harold Volkmer, D-Mo., said after the vote that those comments backfired. 
"Taking on the NRA is one thing and taking on gun owners is another," Volkmer said. "There's no question the NRA had a lot to do with it," he said. 

STEAKS .,. 

PRIMERIB t :
25 inch color: $90/sem., $170/year 19 inch color: $70/sem., $130/year 
SEAroOD IJJ&se
, 
RfSTAURAJ"fT
Free Delivery, Free Service 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 
272-5959 
219-259-9925 
Student Senate runoff on Monday 
Observer Staff Report James Robertson of Cavanaugh Hall got 89 votes, 
A runoff election will be held or 14.2 percent. Dustin Klinger, on Monday between the two top also of Cavanaugh Hall, got 16 vote-getters in the special Dis­votes, or 2.4 percent. trict Two Student Senate elec­Jim McCarthy said there tion, said John Wilson, director would be little confusion be­of Ombudsman. tween the two runoff candi­
The runoff election will be be­dates because "there's no con­tween Jim McCarthy and Brian fusion between issues. I'm the McCarthy, two unrelated resi­only one addressing the con­dents of Zahm Hall. The runoff cerns of the students," he said. 
election will be held Monday, with voting taking place from Brian McCarthy was not 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to available for comment. 7 p.m., Wilson said. "It was a small election,"
Out of a total of 627 votes said Wilson. "There were no cast, Jim McCarthy got 271 campaign violations." votes, or 43.4 percent. Brian Campaigning begins Satur­
McCarthy was just behind, day night at midnight and con­with 251 votes or 40 percent of tinues until Sunday at mid­votes cast. night. 
Malloy meets with local businessmen 
By FLORENTINE Center for Social Concerns and HOELKER neighborhood tutoring as other News Staff ways the University contri­
butes to the area. 
Hundreds of Michiana busi­"It really is important that ness executives sat down to together we work to promote lunch yesterday with Univer­good relationships with the sity President Father Edward community," Malloy said of Malloy, who encouraged local students. businesses to be a part of Notre Malloy said he was happyDame's future. that student government has 
The University has a organized efforts to get help to ''priority to provide an environ­areas such as the north-east ment of cooperation and sup­side of South Bend. port" for the area and area businesses, Malloy told nearly A video was shown which 300 executives from 24 compan­detailed highlights of last yearies in the Michiana area. such as the Knute Rockne 
"May we find ways of sup­stamp, the football team's porting one another in the days tOOth anniversary and Presi­ahead," Malloy said, adding he dent Reagan's visit. hopes the University and area Several executives said they businesses can "cooperate in were pleased with the pro­
mutual research." gram. They expressed interest 
Malloy highlighted under­in Malloy's appeal and said graduate scholarships, they were glad to see the Uni­graduate fellowships and li­versity concentrate on aca­brary collections as areas in demic as well as athletic pro­which the University needs grams. support. 
Malloy said that he wants Several also said they were local businesses "to be a part somewhat surprised to see the of our efforts as we look into turnout for the event. 
the future." The University plans to con­
As Michiana's largest em­tact the executives and com­ployer, the University contri­panies who attended the butes nearly $1 million to the luncheon within two weeks to area daily, Malloy.-said. He see whether they have an inter. cited students' efforts at the est in providing support. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The pro-gun lobby won a major victory yes­terday when the House eliminated from a major anti­drug bill a seven-day waiting period for handgun purchases. 
The 228-182 vote substituted a plan -still to be established ­that would allow gun dealers to identify convicted felons seeking to buy handguns. 
The margin showed the Na­tional Rifle Association was able to outmuscle a coalition of handgun control organizations and allies from all the nation's major law enforcement groups. Both sides br;ought rank-and-file law enforcement officers to the Capitol to lobby for their cause. 
Voting for the substitute sponsored by Rep. Bill McCol­lum, R-Fla., were 101 Democrats and 127 Republicans. Opposing were 137 Democrats and 45 Republicans. 
The overall drug bill would add some $2 billion to the na­tion's $3.9 billion drug fighting effort. A final House vote is ex­pected next week. The Senate still has to consider its own drug-fighting bill. 
The waiting period would have permitted police where 
Ballet Folklorics 
**** ****
Azul y Oro *** Mexican "Guito" Contest *** Pinata Breaking ***Jalapeno Eating Conte.st 



All events at Fieldhouse Mall on Friday, Sept. 16th starting at 4 PM 
Sponsored by: Hispanic Club in celebration of Mexican Independence Day. Also sponsored by SUB 
Saint Mary's College 

V~Vt=f)VMI~C3 
AVT§ 
S~VII:S 
presents 

FRIDAY, SEPT. 16-8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM TICKETS: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 AVAILABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE TO CHARGE BY PHONE: 284-4626 VISA, MASTERCARD ACCEPTED 

--·-t!t 
Sajnt MEry~ ~oll~g~ 
NOTRE DAME • I NOlANA 
-·---·-----· 
~~------------------~-­
page 4 The Observer ' 
Walesa, Polish officials meet 
Associated Press The government agreed to people to agree on topics, com­the talks after Walesa agreed position and the work schedule 
WARSAW, Poland -Lech to halt a wave of strikes last for the meeting, the state-run Walesa met for four hours with month that posed the most PAP news service said., government officials yesterday serious threat to the govern­W alesa, Kiszczak, alternate and stuck to his position that ment since Solidarity was Politburo member Stanislaw "there is no freedom without crushed in 1981. Ciosek, church representative Solidarity." After the meeting, Krzysztof the Rev. Alojzy Orszulik and 
Walesa, the chairman of the Sliwinski, a journalist close to mediator Andrzej Stelmac­banned independent union Solidarity, said "both sides are howski met from noon until movement, and Interior Mini­not terribly far apart as far as about 4:30 p.m. at a govern­ster Gen. Czeslaw Kiszczak the basic things are con­ment guest house in Warsaw. agreed to continue working cerned." "The talks were long," toward an early start of talks But he said the two sides still Walesa said. "We are keeping on the future of Poland. must negotiate how a our position which I have al­
"The problems are very dif­relegalized Solidarity would ways put forward, 'There is no ficult but the the atmosphere is differ from the Solidarity of the freedom without Solidarity."' 
AP Photo

encouraging," a smiling early 1980s, and under what Walesa said that even though Walesa in Warsaw Wales a told reporters after his conditions it would operate. Poland faces many problems, 
second meeting with senior Kiszczak and Walesa sched­he believes that the relegaliza­Solidarity leader Lech Walesa arrives in Warsaw on Wednesday night government officials in more uled another meeting for today tion of Solidarity is the most to prepare for a second meeting with authorities yesterday on convening than six years. with an expanded group of important. a round table on Poland's future. 
13 year-old sentenced to 60 days 
Associated Press didn't re-enroll in school this judge's aide. "The boy said month, the records said. he's been on marijuana since 
CROWN POINT, Ind.-A 13-Katie ordered the jail term he was 11 years old, and two year-old Hammond boy will be Wednesday, after the ·grade weeks ago he did cocaine." eating lunch with jailmates in­reports were turned in and the Katie said he didn't have a stead of classmates for the next youngster bragged about using blood or urine test to confirm 60 days, a judge says. marijuana. the boy's drug use, but he felt 
Hammond City Judge Peter certain the boy wouldn't lie Katie placed the youth under "It was very active, frequent about such a matter in open court supervision after the boy and recent drug use. He said court. pleaded guilty to speeding and he used marijuana the night Eggers Middle School Prin­reckless driving earlier this before court," said Katie, who cipal Jane Kendrick said Wed­year. has been a subject of contro­nesday that she believes "the 
The boy, who was 12 at the versy because of his policy of incarceration of a minor in time of his Jan. 21 arrest, also jailing teens who get bad Lake County Jail is inappropri­was ordered to keep his grades grades while under court su­ate." above a C. pervision for Qlinor offenses. 
Court records indicate that "The judge was going to give Gary attorney Eric Clark the boy, who had no offenses him just two weekends said the boy will be segregated prior to his January arrest, originally but changed his from adults in the jail but will 
scored Ds in three subjects and mind after asking the boy how be in contact with juveniles ac­
Yellowstone Park Ranger Roger Anderson kneels by a fallen burned 
Fs in eight others. He also long he had been on mari­cused of committing adult of­tree Wednesday as he looks for more signs of new plant life near Grant skipped several classes and juana," said Bobby Costa, the fenses.
Village in the national park. 




Tl designed its advanced scientific calculators to help cut science and engineering problems down to size. 
It takes more than an ordinary calculator to help make an extra­ordinary future scientist or engineer. 
IH0007 


0 
News.
) 
The Tl-65 Technical AnalystTM Offers all the .,. built-in functions of the 
11-60, plus a stopwatch /timer, eight physical con­
stants, decision program­
ming (if ... then) capabilities 
and 100 programming steps 
for repetitive calculations. 

The TI-60 Advanced 
Scientific Features such built­
in functions as hexadecimal 
I octal coversions, integration 
using Simpson's rule, statistics 
(including linear regression), 
trend line analysis and merric to The Tl-95 PROCALCTM Our most powerful, top-of-the-line 
English conversions. There are advanced scientific features 8K RAM and a full range ofscientific, 
also 84 programming steps for mathematical and statistical functions. It uses redefinable function 
repetitive calculations. keys to provide easy access to 200+ functions with menu-like win­dows and has a flexible file management system to conveniently store programs and data. The TI-95 offers optional accessories such 
as Solid State Software TM cartridges for Mathematics, Statistics, and Chemical Engineering, and 8K Constant MemoryTM cartridge, a portable printer and a cassette interface. 
11's advanced scientific calcula­keys and simple keyboard layouts. tors-the 11-60, 11-65 and the This helps you concentrate on real 11-95 PROCALC-were designed problem solving, instead of solving with all the right scientific the mysteries ofa complex \ mathematical and statistical func­calculator. tions you'll need to get ahead in With all the demands your ad­school and in your career. vanced courses place on you, you 
These powerful calculators were need the help of an advanced 
TEXAS~
carefully created to be easy to use. scientific calculator from 11. They feature large, color-coded Copyright © 1988 11 INSTRUMENTS 
TM Trademark ofTexas Instruments Incorporated 


Friday, September 16, 1988 The Observer 

THE COMEDY CLUB 
featuring: 

TAYLOR MASON THURSDAY 
Comedian Extraordinaire 
SEPT. 15,

Comedy, Ventriloquism, Piano are just a few of his many specialties. 9:00pm 
: This is the first of a series of comedy shows to be presented at Theodore's : this Fall . 
................................................. 
Beauchamp chairs United Way 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
News Staff 
The United Way of St. Joseph County launched its 1988 fundraising drive on Wednes­day with a speech by Campaign Chairman Father William Beauchamp, Notre Dame's ex­ecutive vice president, at a rally at South Bend's Union Station. 
"The goal this year is to raise $3,405,000," said Beauchamp, adding this reflects a 5.6 per­cent increase from last year, United Way's lOOth anniver­sary. 
The money from this drive will be used to support 36 health and human service agencies 
Security Beat 
SEPTEMBER 8 traveling at 41 mph in a posted 25m ph 
4:08 p.m. A Notre Dame student zone on Juniper Road. reported that his car battery was stolen 3:15a.m. Notre Dame Security from his car while it was parked in the arrested a South Bend resident for C-1 Lot. The theft occurred sometime driving under the influence of alcohol between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. His on Juniper Rd. loss is est. at $90. !0:05p.m. Notre Dame Security 
SEPTEMBER 9 arrested a Michigan resident for driving 
under the influence of alcohol on cited by Notre Dame Security for Douglas Rd. traveling 45mph in a posted 25mph !2:30p.m. A Notre Dame student 
/.one on Juniper Road. reported the theft of his football tickets 
12:30 a.m. An Illinois resident was 

I:05 a.m. Notre Dame Security from his office in LaFortune. The loss cited a Virginia resident for traveling occurred sometime between 9:00 a.m. 41 mph in a posted 25mph zone on on 9/8 and !2:00p.m. on 9/9. The 
Juniper Road. value of the tickets is $73.50. 
I: 15 a.m. A Granger resident was 

SEPTEMBER 10 
cited by Notre Dame Security for 
I: 10 a.m. A Holy Cross resident University property. 4:00p.m. while it was parked in the C­
piiiiiii__________________;;___;;_______;;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;;l;Lot. Her loss is unknown, 

such as the American Red Cross, Boy's Clubs, and Logan Center, Beauchamp said. 
The University, which has been involved in United Way fundraising for years, will kick off its own fund drive at a luncheon on Sept. 22. Director of Community Relations Jim Roemer will head the drive. 
"This year, the drive will be a major effort on campus for faculty, staff, and students," Beauchamp said. 
Dean of Freshman Year of Studies Emil Hofman will be the faculty chairman, while the staff chairman is Monica Jef­fers, special projects coordina­tor for the university. 
"As in the past, the student government will be in charge 
of the student portion of the 
drive," said Beauchamp. 
Beauchamp was asked to serve as campaign chairman m only his second year with the United Way of St. Joseph County. He had supervised the United Way's fundraising for institutions of higher learning last year. 
This year's drive is staffed by 2,000 volunteers and has already raised $571,000, which is 17 percent of the community goal. "We're hoping it will be successful, but it's going to take a lot of work," Beau­champ said. 
reported the theft of his locked bicycle from the front of Holy Cross. The 
theft occurred sometime between responded to a hit and run which 3:00p.m. and midnight on 9/9. His occurred in the C-1 Lot. The victim's loss is est. at $180.00 car sustained minor damages. His loss 
5:45 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident is est. at $300. reported the theft of a box of Notre I :30a.m. Notre Dame Security Dame-Michigan football programs arrested a Michigan resident for driving from the JACC. The estimated loss is under the influence of alcohol on Dorr $134.00. Rd. 
1:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Alumnus 5:20 a.m. An Illinois resident reported the theft of his Notre Dame reported the theft of a Coleman cooler class ring from the men's restroom in and a Sony radio from her car while it Fitzpatrick. His loss is est. at was parked in Green Field. Her loss is $325.00. est. at $120. 
5:25 p.m. A Notre Dame student
2:00p.m. Notre Dame Security 
reportedthat her car had been struck apprehended several persons for sometime between 10:00 a.m. and unauthorized sale of merchandise on 

AP Photo

A Grateful Goodbye 
PTL founder Jim Bakker waves from an automobile after leaving U.S. Bankruptcy Court Wednesday. Bakker testified that his salary was set by the television ministry's board of directors which also approved his 
raises. 
SEPTEMBER 11 !2:20a.m. Notre Dame Security 
SEPTEMBER 12 
2:45 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his backpack and contents from the .South Dining Hall Lobby rack. The theft occurred sometime between 1:15 and 
2:15 p.m. His loss is est. at $45.00. 
2:30 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of a jacket and radar detector from her car while it was parked inthe B-2 Lot. The theft occurred between 9:00 a.m. and noon on 8/8. Her loss is est. $ 135.00. 
5:45 p.m. An off campus student reponed that his car was struck while parked in the C-Ol Lot. The accident occurred sometime between II :00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Damage estimates are unkown. 

---~-----~~~~-~ ----------~~-----~­

The Observer I Sheila Lombard
Spidey Needs A Ride 
Two Saint Mary's art students attempt to beautify placing this super-human spider on the bus stop in their campus and-Or scare some dates away by front of Le Mans Hall. 
FBI investigates shuttle a-ring sabotage 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY-The FBI is investigating at least one person in the apparent sabotage of 0-rings used on 
. space shuttle rocket motors, and an arrest or indictment is imminent, an agent said yes­terday. , HydraPak, which manufac­tures the 0-rings in West Jor­dan, Utah, discovered in June that a small number of the rubber-like seals had been deliberately cut. Officials im­
mediately notified rocket maker Morton Thiokol, the FBI and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the federal agencies began a joint investigation. 
"We do have suspects and the case will be prosecutable,', said FBI Special Agent Cal Clegg. "Right from the incep­tion, we have been discussing the case with the U.S. attor­ney's office, and we feel that arrests or indictments will be imminent." 
Clegg said he did not know whether more than one person was suspected, but the number "could expand ... it depends on the evidence that is gathered." 
Charges could be filed within the month, he said. James Dockstader, HydraPak vice president of 
Friday, September 16, 1988 

Quayle says he is fit to be Vice President 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OK-Re­publican Dan Quayle dis­missed concerns about his fit­ness to serve as vice president and predicted Thursday that "in due time, the American people will see the real Dan Quayle" and make their own judgments. 
At his first news conference in two weeks, the Indiana senator shrugged off as "ir­relevant" questions about his past, including his mediocre academic record. 
"Winston Churchill was not a great student. He was a great leader. FDR (Franklin D. Roosevelt) failed the bar ex­amination a number of times. He turned out to be a great president," Quayle said. 
The vice presidential nominee said his refusal to make public his academic records was "an irrelevant issue." He previously had said he did not want reporters scrutinizing his less than stel­lar grades. 
Referring to controversies over his military service during the Vietnam War, his academic performance and his personal life, Quayle said he was "not going to focus on what I have done in the past" but on "what I stand for, what I artic­ulate to the American people." 
"The American people will judge me on what I am saying and what I have done in the last 12 years in the Congress," he 
said. 
Quayle spoke to reporters during a campaign tour that took him to rallies in Tulsa, Okla., Moore, near Oklahoma City, and Wichita, Kan. In Tulsa, he was met by a noisy group of Dukakis supporters who chanted "Duke! Duke!" 
A CBS-New York Times poll found that one-third of those responding said Quayle was qualified to be president com­pared with three-fifths who said the same of his Demo­cratic counterpart, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. 

production, said earlier that~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------.. 
none of the damaged seals had 
been shipped to , Morton 
Thiokol, which manufactures 
the rockets at its northern Utah 
plant. 

'~ G~tWf'LL 
CHIIESE·IIIEIICAII RESTAUUIIT
'iiPP 

Authentic fbecllu8n, u-.rtn a Hu111111 Cullllnel 
Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at______ $4.95 Bestaaranr open 1 days 
Mon.-Thuta. 11:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sat.ll:30 am to II pm 
SUD. &Holidaya 11:30 am to 10 pm 
130 Dixie Hwy., lloaeland taextto Bcmdall'• hm) 
: MARKETING POSITIONS : : OPEN FOR : 
+ 5 GRADUATE STUDENTS+
• •+
+ GOOD PAY 
+HOURS WORKED AROUND YOUR+ : SCHEDULE : + CALL (CAR NEEDED) + 
: 277-4469 : 

SaturdayNight Worship & Praise A CHRISTIAN CONTEMPORARY WORSHIP SERVICE ON SATURDAY NIGHT 6:00PM Nursery Provided 
*Especially for University Students *Biblical Preaching *Social Interaction 
Bible Teacher-Marcus Warner Pastor of University Outreach 
7215 Grape Road 
• 
(behind Chi-Chi's) Granger, IN 277-4737 Rev. Russell Fish, Pastor 
272-7376 
• 

FOR THE BUSY STUDENT 
THE SILVER FOX LAUNDRY & CLEANERS OLIVE & ELWOOD 
IS NOW OFFERING 
50°/o OFF FOR ( 
DROP-OFF LAUNDRY ( J 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY SAME DAY OR OVERNITE OR DO-IT-YOURSELF 
TOP LOADER----$. 75 DOUBLE LODER----$1.00 TRIPLE LOADER---$1.75 GIANT LOADER----$2.00 
DROP-OFF DRY CLEANING FOR MORE INFORrylATION-DROP BY OR GIVE US A CALL 233-6984-0LIVE & ELWOOD SOUTH BEND 
I OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 

Friday, September 16, 1988 
JAMAICA 
continued from page 1 
States for use as temporary roofing. 
Supplies first began arriving from the United States on Wed­nesday. The Federal Aviation Administration in Atlanta re­ported Kingston's Norman Manley International Airport was open to relief flights only, but commercial and private flights were landing at Mon­tego Bay. 
The government said about 500,000, or more than one-fifth of the country's 2.3 million people were homeless. Seaga estimated 100,000 of the is­land's 500,000 homes were wiped out and another 300,000 had roofs ripped off or other severe damage. 
The prime minister said there was massive damage in Portland and Saint Thomas parishes on the east coast, where two districts were com­pletely devastated and coconut groves flattened. 


GILBERT 
continued from page 1 
to Port O'Connor, including 250,000-resident Corpus Christi. A hurricane watch remained in effect for the remainder of the Texas coast, from Port O'Connor north to Port Arthur near the Louisiana border. 
The weather service said warnings might be extended northward, depending upon Gilbert's path. 
Gilbert surged into the gulf after battering the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico with 160 mph winds, forcing tens of thousands to flee. 
After crossing the peninsula, Gilbert's winds weakened to 120 mph, but forecasters predicted the storm would in­
tensify again as it moves over 
open water. 
"The shower and thun­
derstorm activity that we see 
taking place around the hur­
ricane itself is getting better or­ganized, more vigorous, so we think it's starting to strengthen," said Sheets at the Hurricane Center. 
In the coastal resort of South 
Padre Island, about 25 miles 
southeast of Brownsville, the 
mayor ordered its 1,000 resi­
dents to evacuate. 
"We can't force them to leave, but it doesn't make any sense to stay,'' said Mayor Bob Pinkerton Jr., adding that water and electricity were turned off yesterday. 
Tropical storm force winds, at least 39 mph, extended out­ward up to 250" miles to the north and 200 miles to the south of the center. 
The storm's first landfall earlier this week left at least 19 people dead in Jamaica, five in the Dominican Republic, 10 in Haiti and two in Mexico. It also left a half-million people homeless in Jamaica and caused widespread damage to the Cayman Islands. 
HEART 
continued from page 1 
Gregori was the Italian artist invited by Father Sorin in 1874 to paint the murals in Sacred Heart, along with"the paintings on the inside of the golden dome and the Columbus series in the Administration building. His , murals on the church ceiling and his stations of the cross are among the more time consum­ing aspects of the restoration agenda, said Konet. "The res­toration of the murals takes an extremely long time. There are normally not this many murals to restore." 
Gruenke classified the type of work Conrad Schmitt does as primarily decorating. "We're working in Min­neapolis, Madison, Chicago and Vermont," said Gruenke. "Our main jobs are churches, hotels, anything with historical significance.'' 
page 7 

According to Dedrick, the in­terior restoration of Sacred Heart is the final stage in its complete renovation begun two years ago under Father Joyce, and being continued by Father Beauchamp. The new roof and weatherproofing of the build­ing needed to be completed first, said Dedrick, before inte­rior could begin. "I think we reached a point where the church needed restoration, and its a matter of systematically attacking the different areas," he said. 
The sampling and research work should be completed in another two weeks, said Konet and Gruenke. If they are indeed commissioned for the main res-, toration project, however, work should begin in May and continue through August of 1990. "I think it's going to be a very exciting project," said Dedrick. "I think everyone will be very pleased when its finished." 


· Th get ahead in school, it helps if you choose abrilliant roommate. Like aMacintosh'" personal computer. And now there are two models to choose from. 
The Macintosh Plus, which comes with one 800K disk drive and up to four megabytes of memory. 
And the Macintosh SE. Which comes .with either two built-in 800K drives, or one drive and an internal20-megabyte hard disk. As well as a choice of keyboards. _ 
The SE also has an expansion slot, so you can add acard that lets you share information over acampus-wide network. Or another that lets you run MS-DOS programs. 
Whichever Macintosh you choose, you can use the latest, most advanced software. And that means you'll be able to work faster, better and smarter. 
No two ways about it. 
Thepowerto beyourbesr 



page 8 
The Observer 
Father claims son is not a traitor 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND-A former naval analyst convicted of passing classified information to Israel was wrongly portrayed by Reagan adminis­tration officials and the media as a traitor, his father says. 
Dr. Morris Pollard, profes­sor of biological sciences at Notre Dame, told a group of journalists that the media, steered by then-Attorney Gen­eral Edwin Meese and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, implied the actions of his son, Jonathan Jay Pollard, were traitorous. The U.S. Constitu­tion defines treason as making 
Reagan denies rumors of incompetence during Iran crisis 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Reagan said yesterday there is "no truth" to a suggestion that he was inattentive to his duties during the Iran-Contra crisis, and the White House denied any serious thought was given to removing him from office by · constitutional means. 
"It's total nonsense," said White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater. "It speaks more to the state of mind of some of the staff here than it does about the president." 
Fitzwater was referring to White House aides who were in­terviewed by James Cannon, a longtime associate of Howard 
H. Baker Jr., on the weekend in 1987 when Baker replaced Donald T. R~gan as White House chief of staff. 
In a new book by two news­paper reporters, Cannon is quoted as saying that after in­terviewing 15 to 20 White House aides, he wrote a memo to Baker that began: "Consider the possibility that section four of the 25th Amendment might be applied.". 
The 25th Amendment, added to the Constitution in 1967, pro­vides the president may be removed if the vice president and a majority of the cabinet declare him "unable to dis­charge the powers and duties of his office." 
Reagan, returning to the White House after speaking in a nearby building, was asked what he thought of Cannon's story. When he appeared not to understand the question, an­other reporter shouted, "25th Amendment." 
"There's no truth to any of 

this," the president responded. 
Cannon, in an interview with 
Cable News Network, said that 
of the staffers he talked to "not 
all but most said in one way or 
another that the president was 
inattentive, that he had lost in­
terest in his job." 
"There's nothing to this," 

said Fitzwater. "This is fiction 
by staff people who for their 
own reasons chose to say this. 
It was dismissed immediately 
by those who heard it. It was 
never taken seriously." 
Cannon also said he con­
cluded after seeing Reagan 
that there was no reason to in­
voke the amendment and said 
he assumed the aides were 
motivated by loyalty to Regan, 
who had been removed by the war against the United States bezzled government property or aiding its enemies. and being an .accessory after 
"The United· States was the fact to the possession of never harmed by this," Dr. defense secrets. Pollard told members of the So­Dr. Pollard said he had ciety of Professional Jour­declined to speak publiclynalists, Sigma Delta Chi at a about his son's case on the ad­meeting Wednesday evening. vice of a defense attorney. He 
Pollard said his son had been quoted an attorney as warningcharged with violating national that "the press could not be security laws, but the charge trusted." Dr. Pollard said he was dropped for lack of regrets following the advice. evidence. Pollard began helping Israel 
The younger Pollard, 33, was when he learned the U.S. gov­sentenced to life in prison in ernment had deliberately1987 after pleading guilty to passed false intelligence to the 
passing secrets to Israel. llis Israeli government, said Dr. wife, Anne Henderson-Pollard, Pollard. "It's a decision he was sentenced to five years in made on his own, and I suspect prison after pleading guilty to it's one he now regrets," he conspiring to receive em-said. 
president and replaced with working lunch with the presi­Baker. dent. 
Cannon and Fitzwater dif­"To our obvious delight, fered, however, over how long President Reagan was dandy," the matter was under consid­be said. "I thought, 'This man eration. is fine and what are these guys 
According to Cannon, he in­talking about?"' terviewed the White House Fitzwater, however, said staffers on Friday, Feb. 27, Cannon "raised the question 1987, and the following day and and Senator Baker said, wrote his memo on Sunday. 'That's not the president I Then on Monday, he said that talked to,' and that was the end Baker and he and others had a of it." 
AP Photo President Reagan gestures that he can't hear reporters' questions as 
he departs the White House Wednesday for a one-day campaign stop in Missouri to help Vice President George Bush's presidential bid. 
·-----------~I!G-aJR-IMIIIf~-"-"• !I tn•n•(--lliax
IM1allfiMiQ!C00%1111lWl1-MIII(ilJJ-!IIMIIlt!l--N-IMN-Iql 
Baxter 
Come Talk to Us 
Monday, September 19th La Fortune Student Center-Foster Room 8:00-9:00 PM 
Sponsored by Marketing CU> 
Tuesday, September 20th Athletic and Convocation Center-Monogram Room 
6:00 to 10:00 PM 
Sponsored by Finance CU3 
i a 
AP Photo 

Pope Pays An Unexpected Visit 
I . 

Pope John Paul II leaves Jan Smuts Airport escorted by SA Foreign Minister Pik Botha after an unscheduled stop in Johannesburg on Wed­nesday. The pope spent several hours at the Johannesburg airport because his plane could not land in Lesotho as planned. 
Signs of inflationary pressures ease 
is an indication ·that American 

Associated Press 
consumers are curbing their 

WASHINGTON-Retail sales appetite for goods enough to al­declined in August for orrly the low factories to make more for second time this year, the gov­sale abroad, analysts said. ernment said yesterday, indi­The Federal Reserve, in an cating to analysts that infla­effort to slow the economy by tionary pressures in the curbing domestic demand, has economy are easing. been pushing interest rates 
The Commerce Department higher since late March, and said sales fell by 0.2 percent economists say the Fed last month to $133.5 billion, ad­tightening may be beginning to 
justed for seasonal variations take hold. but not for price increases. ''I think things are looking 
Economists have been just fine inflationwise," said 
worried since the spring that Michael Evans, head of Evans 
rising export sales coupled Economics, a Washington con­
with strong demand from U.S. sulting firm. "I think the Fed 
consumers would put too much deserves an A. I think they 
strain on the economy and fuel tightened just enough to slow 
down the economy without sen­

inflation. The small drop in retail sales ding it into a tailspin." 
Happy 
20th, 
Swine 

~~~;;~~~~:=:;:;::;~""""::::!!:::::00::7"?"'"""7'"?"~~~=-"'~
1::: 
Invitational Sign-up Deadline September 19-20th 
Careers in 
• 
Accounting 

• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 

• 
Marketing 

• 
Operations 


* * Events Open to all Students * * On Campus Interviewing October 27-28th 

Viewpoint
Friday, September 16, 1988 page 9 
Graduates deserve equal privileges 
The first couple weeks or so of being an Irish have been great. Walking on campus and around the lakes, seeing the Golden Dome, the statue of Our Lady, Sacred Heart, Touchdown Jesus and No.1 Moses, hearing the band play the most famous fight song in the world --all these things certainly get the blood flowing and reinforce the pride felt in being here. Classes have begun, we're getting in the swing of things 
Joe Swiatek GSU 
guest column 
As graduate students, we're all feeling something else, too, and we're not quite sure how to adjust. We are not here as undergraduates, yet many of us just graduated from college a few months ago, so we still feel like under­grads, and perhaps even wish we could be a part of undergraduate life on campus right now. We are not students in the same way that we were, and one of the reasons for this is that we are experiencing the other side of the aca­demic fence --we are teachers, too. 
There is another thing that contri­butes to our ambivalence concerning our newfound state --Notre Dame is primarily an undergraduate institu­tion, and I have been reminded of that by more than one occasion. 
First of all, new graduate students have not been afforded much in the way of orientational activities in past years; it was only for the first time this year that we had the opportunity to take part in any type of quality inaugural events such as the brunch, the forums on Uni­versity services, the tours, the GSU dance, etc., and this was because of the work of the Graduate Student Union. I thought these programs were quite helpful insofar as letting us know all the different things that are going on at the University and in the South Bend area, and it was also nice to meet other grads who are in other fields of study. 

Secondly, we don't seem to rate very highly on the caste system here; i.e., we pick our football tickets with the sophomores. Some might think that this isn't such a big deal, but in a place where football is the stuff of legends, the parallel to where we stand in the scheme of things is inescapable to a new graduate student (at least to one who loves football). 
I hope that this statement is not in­
dicative of an attitude around here which relegates us to second-class citizens, because we're not and we don't want to be treated like we are. Intel­lectually, we're as gifted as anyone here; the two of my classmates whom I know the best were accepted at Har­vard and MIT, but they turned down Ivy League & Associates to come to Notre Dame. 
Our football coach himself said on "The Lou Holtz Show" that it is an honor and a privilege to represent Notre Dame, and although he may have been saying this in the context of foot­ball, these words apply to the under­graduate ·students, the other athletes, the faculty and staff, and certainly to the graduate students also. Joe Swiatek is a first year graduate student in physics, and a writer for The Graduate Student Union Information Office. 
The Olympics: more than us against them 
Four years ago Southern California was bracing for the onslaught of the 23rd Summer Olympics. We had heard horror stories for years about high costs, traffic jams, ticket shortages, and so forth. It is an understatement to say that locals such as myself were ap­prehensive about the coming of the games. 
Richard Beatty 
ten percent 

Nevertheless, when I was asked to 
sing in the festival chorus for the 
opening ceremonies, I eagerly ac­
cepted the offer. While I realized that 
it would probably not be an artistically 
satisfying experience, I knew that it 
was going to be an important occasion. 
As July 28 drew nearer, I too became 
excited about the games. 
The ceremonies themselves were 
meticulously planned and executed: 
10,000 performers and athletes had to 
be moved into the Los Angeles 
Coliseum at the right times during the 
show, and all under intense security. 
For several hours before going on, we 
were kept in formation in the Sports 
Arena next door. The atmosphere was 
electric: we performers, on the floor of 
the arena, were about to have the larg­
est audience of our lives; the athletes. 
seated in the balcony completely 
Doonesbury 
THANK YaJ VtR.Y MfXff, lA/?1&5 AN[) GCNTI.M1EN. IT'S 
l GCXJ[) 70 813 
' BACI<. "-. 
around the arena, would be facing the ultimate challenge over the next two weeks. 
Suddenly an inflatable beach ball ap­peared. Security guards ran towards it as it emerged from the bleachers, but after a few minutes realized that it was harmles~ Soon every eye in the room was riveted on the ball, its zig-zag path cheered on at every bounce. Eventually it made its way up to the balcony where it engaged the talents of some of the world's finest athletes. From Japan to Honduras, back to Laos and Morocco, over to Nigeria and Paraguay, the little ball was on a world tour. Soon everyone began pointing the way for the next shot: we all wanted to see the ball go completely around the arena (and thus around the world) before we moved into the Coliseum. Sadly, the ball sprung a leak and deflated, but was nonetheless passed from hand to hand for the rest of its journey. For a brief moment, everyone in the arena was united in a simple little game where everyone plays, and everyone wins. The fierce competitiveness of the coming weeks was replaced by the common hope of a symbolic journey across the earth. Silence filled the room, and we knew that the real spirit of the Olympics had visited us. 
But is this what really goes on at the games? In 1984, the Soviets, and most of the Eastern bloc countries, did not participate, just as the U.S. refused to go to Moscow in 1980 for its own political reasons--both parties forgetting that the game of detente can hardly be played if one of the teams stays off the field. 

Even when the Olympics are in prog­ress, we seem caught up with "going for the gold," and our newspapers (even this one) carry daily tally boxes keeping track of how many medals "we"are getting compared with how many "they" get. We tell ourselves that the real fruits of the games are inter­national cooperation and brotherhood, but the immediate goal in each compe­tition is to make sure that the U.S. flag is raised just a bit higher than any other during the medals ceremony. It is hard to see how this kind of unvarnished nationalism contributes to a better and more peaceful world. 
Yet there is so much potential for good from the games. Any event that brings people together from around the world in a common pursuit has value. The athletes themselves are probably less concerned with conquest than are the fans back home; perhaps they recall the Olympic motto itself, "Citius, altius, fortius" (faster, higher, stronger)--wanting simply to better their own performance and, incidental­ly, to carry home a medal. Looked at this way, an athlete competes only with herself, not with another person or na­tion. Competitors can support each 
Garry Trudeau 
8UT I WL.O 'tM, I GOTTA 88 .r Mt. TONIGHT I lA/ANNA PLAY 50/Y1/3TH!N' [)JFF£3RE:NT FOR Y'AU. lAJJ/139 ANJJ G&NTlEM&N, TH/3 
MUSIC OP MY 600[) ffi?.IEN!?_ /YIR.JOHN I 
fJENVeR 

other, and eight people can win in the same race. 
Furthermore, we can see the unity and diversity of our world in the faces and lives of the athletes. · People of many descriptions are together on the playing field, and show an equality of talent transcending their differences. Even the U.S. team covers a broad spectrum: Consider how few athletes (and fewer medals) we would have if we limited our delegation to white het­erosexual men. 
I am hopeful for the Olympics. They have great potential for building world peace through shared experience and understanding, but they can also under­mine it if we persist in the mentality of "us against them." By all means, we should "go for the gold," but it should be the precious gold of a just world com­munity born from a realization that the similarities that unite us far outweigh the differences that divide us. 
This weekend the 24th summer games will begin. I won't be in Seoul for the opening ceremonies, and I don't even know what they have planned. But I truly hope that somebody smuggles a beach ball into the staging area, and gives everyone there a glimpse of how wonderful the games can be. Richard Beatty is a graduate student in philosophy and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Quote of the Day 
"In life, as in a football game, the principle to follow is: Hit the line hard." 
Theodore Roosevelt 1858-1919 
Editoral Board Operations Board
Ibe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager . . ...... John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tt;te University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager .......... ........... Bernaderte Shilts 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controlfer... ... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials 'represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Columl) present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
--~------~ 

--------,1 

KAREN BALCERZAK cho accent writer ligt 
Per 
W
hat do sculpture, acro­tog batics, pantomime, fluE cinema and, most important­p ly, dance all have in com­cho mon? Momix. Momix is an for eclectic modern dance com­So11 pany which will be perform­Pal ing this Sunday, Sept. 18, in Mil Washington Hall. the 
The group was founded in sta1 1980 by dancer and choreog­clot rapher Moses Pendelton. An 198lMIKE RESTLE called the Coral Gables Show wave music. Rick's is also 
offshoot of P ilobolus, a sister his accent writer Bar, where "male straights host to great live bands on dance company Pendelton per,can get acquainted with girl weekends. Rick's serves food co-founded in 1971, Momix Obi
T 
here are two types of straights. However, straights until 9 and does have a cover was originally the duo of Pen­ppeople at Michigan State, in the know do not venture charge. 
delton and another dancer, Jullthe hippies and the straights. downstairs into the Rathskel­Dooley's, upstairs on Albert Alison Chase. The troupe now LatThe hippies hang out in hippy lar, for that was hippy terri­Ave., is a very collegiate bar, consists of seven additional fealbars, do hippy dances, and tory and is sometimes occu­complete with pool tables, members. ABtdrink hippy drinks. The pied by a way-out pianist." 
football, and crew 

Momix performs such a Bstraights go to the corner Today, Paul Revere's is a memorabilia. Serving great unique form of dance that molbars, drink beer, and carouse, definitively local bar, the kind pub grub all night, it is a Pendelton describes it as is atalk and wander around East of place where everyone turns popular place among both "something that refuses to be CoU
Lansing. Upon arrival here, around and looks at you when students and alumni. There is categorized." Even the LitE
the roadtripping Notre Dame you walk in. Coral Gables is 
no cover charge. 
source of their name is unus­Darstudent must make a deci­more of an adult dinner place Underneath Dooley's is wa~
ual; it's taken from a milksion: it's either hippy or now, with live swing and jazz Sensations, a dance bar with supplement for veal calves. Nstraight. bands for entertainment. Both music of the urban contempo­Momix has toured virtually Molplaces are located relatively rary genre, but it caters to all over Europe and in Japan, EvEThus reported The Obser­far off campus. 

the same crQ.wd as Dooley's. 
Israel and Brazil. They have Quiver before the MSU game in And, like all dance bars here, had repeated engagements in app1966. Of course, things have Luckily, for the present-day Sensations has a cover almost every major city in SJchanged a bit since then. Notre Dame roadtripper, the 
charge. 
North America. A recent UniTwenty years ago, the Mic­Michigan State campus is no The America's Cup is lo­project included a U.S. tour malhigan State campus and its longer dry, and a good num­cated in a smallish street with the New Age rock band at 8environs were dry, and stu­ber of student bars have since mall on M.A.C. Ave. It serves Shadowfax. are­dents were forced to go to the popped up· nearby, north of food until 9:00 and caters to a Many of Momix's dances stucother side of town for a beer. the stadium. (See map laid-back, student crowd. 
use what Pendelton calls "the cha:Paul Revere's Tavern was below.) 
There is no cover charge. poor man's theater ap­van"the high place for the holy Downstairs from the Cup is proach." This means the Tielhips ... where the 'in' can in­Rick's American Cafe on a bigger dance bar called troupe uses simple props such als<trigue each other." Abbott St. is a small, often B'zar. A really "boppy" place as a balloon or a cane. An­callcrowded bar, but it has a 
with neon lights and
The popular place for dance floor and plays a very other important part of the tert 
waitresses dressed up in dif­"straights" was a dance bar good selection of modern new­
ferent costumes, B'zar seems to attract a younger, un­

derage crowd. Music is ap­
propriate. 
In the mood for a quieter place to drink? The Riviera is located at the corner of 
M.A.C. and Albert. It's a dark, casual place with tables, booths, and a jukebox. Food till 9. 
If you're looking for some of your Greek friends, head towards the corner of Abbott and Grand River Ave. for the Land Shark, a bar very popular with frater­nity!Sorority types. The Land Shark also features an oyster bar. You do have to pay cov­er, though; and, sorry, no 19s allowed here. 
But if you really feel you'd
Michigan 

rather be at Paul Revere's back in 1966, Robie's across
State 

from the Cup on M.A.C. Ave. 
is the place for you. More of 
a restaurant than a bar,
Campus 

Robie's pub-like atmosphere 
attracts '60s throwbacks and 
flower children, complete 
with tye-dyes and bandanas. 
The music is live, usually one 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson man and his guitar playing 

Bob Dylan songs. No Republicans, please. 
As we conclude this brief overview of the MSU bar scene, let me offer a word of caution to under-21s: Since 19-year-olds are permitted to enter most bars, do not at­tempt to use a fake ID in or­der to drink. Bouncers are very tough and mean. So stay "straight" this weekend and you'll be "hip." And have a good time, kids! 
Cole con to Theoc 
TRISHA CHAMBERI assistant accent editor 
I 
'm a storyteller--a rap man." That's right, Alex Cole is not your typical coi edian. He doesn't have a st dard routine of jokes whert he pokes fun at the latest p tical or Hollywood scandal. 
What he does have, however, is a dialogue with the audience. He prides him self on the fact that, unlike , 
· 
some of his contemporaries, . the audience will know a lW about him by the end of the 1night. 
Self -described as the "whi Bill Cosby," Cole usually te stories about the everyday happenings of his family, Pl ticularly his three young sol But, for the college crowd, I material looks at the chang1 in the drinking age, first dates, studying, and anythu else which is a part of the college experience. 
The odds are good that you'II probably recognize some of yourself in his very humorous anecdotes. In fac1 it's just that recognition which gives him such a gooc 
-... pport with the audience, 
.1d made him the recipient of the 1988 Comedian of the Year award (as determined 

_;______________ 
Time 12:05 EDT, 11 :05 COT 
ABC national telecast (Gary Bender, Dick Vermeil)TV & Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna)
Radio 
WVFI-AM 640 (Greg Guffey, Jamie Rappis) 
Game is sold out

Tickets 
(capacity 76,000) 
Notre Dame 8th

AP Rankings 
Michigan State unranked 
Notre Dame leads, 34-18-1

Series 
First game in 1897 

-------·-··----··--·----· --------------------· 
September 19, 1987

Last Game 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 8 

Stonebreaker is back in action 
Junior inside linebacker is racking up tackles again 
By THERESA KELLY Football was real life for "The defense as a whole Assistant Sports Editor Stonebreaker Saturday night played really well," against Michigan, when he had Stonebreaker said of the Mic­Welcome back, Mike 17 assisted tackles and two higan victory. "Everyone was Stonebreaker. solos while sharing time with just flying to the ball. It was 
Mter an impressive fresh­Ned Bolcar and Wes Pritchett my best game since I man campaign, the junior from at linebacker. The 17 assists graduated from high school. River Ridge, La., made his was five more than he had had mark in spring practice and in 10 games as a freshman. "I didn't really realize it, but was predicted to start at eagle 
I was going into my first real linebacker when he returned season. That was the first big for his sophomore season in game that I was really going 1987. to be a part of." 
The real world got in the way The unexpected and un­of his plans. wanted year off was a learning 
Stonebreaker (with a name experience for Stonebreaker. like that, he had to play foot­"It was hard to watch them ball) was academically in­play without me," he said, "but elegible his sophomore year, once I accepted the fact and it and he makes no bones about was over, then I watched the it. He makes no excuses, either. team and tried to learn from 
what they were doing and put 

"I failed a class in summer myself in game situations." school," Stonebreaker, who Stonebreaker was learning also had ear surgery that sum­from fifth-year senior Pritchett 
Mike Stonebreaker 

mer, said. "I'd like to use that and Notre Dame tri-captain (the surgery) as an excuse, but "He's got great speed and Bolcar, and all three lineback­it was just academics. he's very strong," said Irish de­ers will see their share of 
fensive coordinator and playing time. 
"I was upset, but it was done linebacker coach Barry Al­According to Alvarez, two and there was nothing I could varez. "But his best attribute will be designated to start do about it. I had to learn from is that he has a great nose for depending on their perfor­my mistakes and go on: I had football. He always finds the mance the previous game. The to get my priorities back to­ball and is there to make the starters will play three or four gether and realize that it was play." series, then be replaced by the 
The Observer I Mike Moran 

a little glimpse that there is life For his efforts Saturday, he third linebacker. 
Notre Dame Inside linebacker Mike Stonebreaker has returned from after football, and football is was named defensive player of a year of academic Ineligibility to spearhead the Irish defense and not real life." the week by the Sporting News. see WELCOME, page 3 a solid Inside llnebacklng corps. 
Big Ten off to little start 
By GREG GUFFEY is off to one of the slowest starts heastern Conference is 7-1 Sports Writer I can remember. But its like against non-conference foes, this every year. Out of 150 while the Pac-10 sports a 13-2 
Mter having two teams teams, I don't think there's but ledger thus far. ranked No. 1 in preseason an­one that goes undefeated." The Big Ten has three teams nuals, the Big Ten Conference There may be only one unde­(Michigan, Ohio State and is off to one of its worst starts feated team each season. The Iowa) still in the AP rankings, in recent history. Big Ten squads, however, are but all are in the bottom quar­
Michigan and Iowa garnered falling to foes they should beat-­ter. Those other two confer­the top spot in The Sporting at least on paper. Two prime ences boast five of the top nine News and Sport magazine examples were Iowa's 27-24 teams in the country. With the polls. Both dropped their first loss to Hawaii and Michigan recent play of UCLA and USC, game, while the conference as State falling 17-13 at the hands the roses may not smell sweet a whole is 3-9 two weeks into of Rutgers. for the Big Ten in January. the 1988 season. Ohio State and "Anytime you lose it's disap­Ohio State coach John Indiana are the only unde­pointing," Spartan coach Cooper, though, says the poor feated teams. George Perles said, "but they record is misleading. 
The league that used to dom­all count just one. There's noth­"I don't . put much stock in inate non-conference foes has ing good coming from losing. these early-season games," hit a dry spell, leaving coaches Players are only as good as Cooper said. "I had the chance with plenty of time to ponder their last play and coaches are to watch Michigan against their woes and.concerns. only as good as their last Notre Dame, and Michigan im­
"Obviously, we have some game." pressed John Cooper. They problems," Iowa coach Haden A comparison with the other make the field goal and they're Fry said during the Big Ten conferences makes the Big Ten teleconference. "(The league) look even weaker. The Sout-see BIG TEN, page 3 

-------------. 
page2 Friday, September 16, 1988
Irish Extra: The Game 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Pardon the pun, but 1987 safely can be considered the rosiest year for Mic­higan State football in some time. 
After surviving a brutal opening five games with a 3-2 record (losing 31-8 to Notre Dame and 31-3 to Florida State), the Spartans did not lose another game all season. Led by tailback Lorenzo White, who finished fourth in the Reis­man Trophy balloting, George Perles' squad won the Big Ten title and entered the Rose Bowl for the first time in 22 years. 
The Spartans then defeated Southern California 20-17 in the Rose Bowl, marking just the second time in 14 seasons that the Big Ten champ had won its annual showdown with the best of the Pac-10 Conference. Michigan State ended the season with a 9-2-1 record and a No. 8 ranking. 
But it didn't take long for Perles' 1988 squad to develop the first thorn in its side. Rutgers stunned the Spartans 17­13 last weekend in Michigan State's season-opener. Irish coach Lou Holtz is well aware he will be running into an angry football team Saturday when Notre Dame enters Spartan Stadium. 
"I listened to the Michigan State postgame radio show on the way to the Stadium for our game (last) Saturday, and I certainly got the feeling that Mic­higan State will be ready for us Satur­day," said Holtz. "I'm sure that would have been true anyway given the rivalry between the two schools, but I'm certain they'll want to prove they are a better football team than they showed against Rutgers. They'll be de­termined to bounce back, and that won't be easy for us to overcome." 
Michigan State again has a tough first five games on its schedule. After facing Notre Dame, Perles' team spends the next three weekends enter­taining Florida State, Iowa and Mic­higan. The Spartans are well aware they need to get a win fast before the roses of 1987 become the dandelions of · 1988. 
Notre Dame offense vs. Michigan State defense 

Before Notre Dame's season-opening 19-17 win over Michigan last weekend, . the popular opinion was that Notre Dame's offensive line was in for a hard time. With four players starting their first games at their positions, the Irish line was faced with the task of stopping a Wolverine defensive line rated as one of the best in the country. 
The Irish line responded by opening 
up enough holes to allow Notre Dame 
to rush for 226 net yards, and over five 
yards per carry. 
But the experienced line faces an­
other huge test this weekend as the 
Spartans return three of their four 
starters (left end Jim Szymanski, right 
tackle Travis Davis and right end John 
Budde) from a line that only allowed 
2.1 yards per carry and 61.5 rushing yards per game last season. Butkus Award candidate Percy Snow, with 17 tackles last weekend, leads a solid 
;·_. ·_ -•• r • • • 
linebacking corps on the defensive unit that was first in the country against the run and second overall last season. 
In the Rutgers game, the Scarlet Knights gained 94 yards on 33 carries. 
"Nobody's been able to run the ball on Michigan State's defense," said Holtz. "Michigan State has been as strong against the run as any team in the country the last few years, and that's not going to make it easy for our offensive line and the inexperience we have." 

Of course, Notre Dame has a slightly more powerful running attack than Rutgers. Tailback Mark Green and ful­lback Braxston Banks plan to start Sat­urday's game, but sophomore tailback Tony Brooks and junior fullback An­thony Johnson also figure to see action for an offensive backfield rated the best in the country by The Sporting News. 
Rutgers' key to defeating the Spar­tans last weekend was the passing game. Scott Erney completed 25-of-36 passes for 239 yards and two touch­downs last Saturday to help the Scarlet Knights take an early 17-0 lead. 
But the Irish looked anything but ef­fective throwing the football against Michigan. Junior Tony Rice went 3-of­12, passing for 40 yards and throwing one interception. The interception, however, bounced off flanker Ricky Watters, and Rice was victimized by a few other dropped passes as well. 
Rice will start at quarterback Satur­day, with Steve Alaniz at split end and Watters at flanker. Frank Jacobs will start at tight end. 
Irish nemesis Todd Krumm has graduated out of the Spartan second­ary, but Michigan State does return its two safeties from last year in Miake Iaquaniello and John Miller. 
In the Irish kicking game, Reggie Ho, a mini-celebrity after his four-field goal performance against Michigan, will kick the extra points and short field goals. Billy Hackett will handle the kickoffs and long field goals. Jim Sex­ton, who averaged 43 yards a punt in his first college game last weekend, has the punting job. 
Michigan State offense vs. Notre Dame defense 
White, the heart of Michigan State's offense for the last three years, has moved on to the NFL's Houston Oilers. It certainly did not take long for Perles to find his replacement. 

Blake Ezor, a 5-10, 180-pound junior tailback from Las Vegas, Nev., rushed for 196 yards on 33 carries against Rut­gers. And even though his fumble late in the game sealed the upset for the Scarlet Knights, he obviously has over­come the stigma of downing the ball in the end zone to give Notre Dame a freak safety on the opening play of last season's game. 
"Blake is as tough as there is pound for pound," said Perles, who turned down an off -season offer to coach the Green Bay Packers. "He's a slashing type of runner that gets six yards per carry. We think he can be one of the outstanding backs in the country." 
Multi-dimensional Spartan quarter­back Bobby McAllister also had his share of success running the ball, gaining 58 yards on just seven carries. He did not have nearly as much success throwing the ball, completing 8-of-18 passes for 80 yards. 
McAllister does have an excellent receiver in All-America candidate Andre Rison, who caught 34 passes for 785 yards at the split end position last season. 
James Moore starts at fullback for Michigan State, while Willie Bouyer lines up at flanker. 
The Michigan State offensive line will be missing Outland Trophy candidate Tony Mandarich, who has been suspended for the first three games of the season for a letter he wrote to the NFL concerning a supplemental draft. The Spartans still have plenty of expe­rience on the line as sophomore Eric Moten is the only non-senior starter. 
Notre Dame's defensive line, like its counterparts on the offense, did surprisingly well against a highly­regarded Michigan unit. The front three of George Williams, Chris Zorich and Jeff Aim had the Wolverines 

. 

SPARTANS. TO WATCH 
averaging less than three yards per carry. Tackles Bob Dahl and Tom Gor­man, who both missed the Michigan game with injuries, are probable for Saturday. 
The linebacking corps, rotating Ned Bolcar, Wes Pritchett and Mike Stonebreaker on the inside, turned in a standout performance worthy of its pre­season acclaim. Stonebreaker, return­ing after a year of academic in­eligibility, was in on 19 tackles last weekend. 
Andre Jones and Frank Starns will start at outside linebacker. 
In the secondary, D'Juan Francisco and Stan Smagala start at cornerback. The senior tandem of Corny Southall and George Streeter will start at free safety and strong safety, respectively. 
Michigan State's kicking game has freshman Josh Butland replacing graduated All-American Greg Montgomery at punter. Sophomore John Langeloh, who was 17-of-24 with field goals last year (7-of-9 from 40-49 yards), continues to hold the placekick­ing job. 





•

Friday, September 16, 1988 page 3
Irish Extra 
-
B·gl Ten 
continued from page 1 
sitting on top of the Big Ten 
with a victory against Notre 
Dame." 
Cooper and his Buckeyes did salvage some pride for the con­ference with a 26-9 victory over Syracuse, ending what at the time was the longest unbeaten streak in the country. It was Cooper's first game as coach of the Buckeyes in front of the largest opening crowd in the storied program's history. 
Indiana, a team that was 0-11 in 1984, opened with a convinc­ing 41-14 win at Rice. The Haw­keyes downed Kansas State 45­10 to even their record at 1-1. 
Things don't get any easier this week. In Michigan, the Spartans host No. 8 Notre Dame and the Wolverines en­tertain No. 1 Miami. Michigan will be trying to end Miami's 19-game r6ad winning streak. The visiting Hurricanes have won 33 consecutive regular-season games. 
"That's a tough assign­ment," Wolverine coach Bo Schembechler said. "I have not· seen the quickness and ability of a defense like this. Coach 
Johnson is worried about the of­fense. but he shouldn't be with 
a defense like that." 
Six of the remaining eight teams play at home. Wisconsin hosts Northern Illinois, Iowa meets Colorado, Indiana enter­tains Kentucky, Illinois meets 
· Utah, Purdue tangles with Ohio University and Minnesota plays Miami (Oh,io). In a big contest, Ohio State travels to Pittsburgh, while Northwes­tern journeys to Air Force. 
There is relief from the dis­mal start for the league, however. The Big Ten was 8-14 against non-conference foes in 1982, but sent five temam to bowls. In 1984 the league was 11-10 and six teams went on to post-season play. 
While still concentrating on the non-conference games, the coaches have the league schedule, and a trip to the Rose Bowl, in the back of their minds. 

"We were in a position like this last year," Perles said. "We came into the conference after winning only one game." 
"I think Michigan, Iowa and Michigan State are the teams most people picked to win and I haven't seen anything to change my mind," Cooper said. 
Spartan Defense 
DeFENSIVE END 
68 Matt Vanderbeek 
96 Bill Johnson 

OUTSIDE LINEB •CKER • ~ ~~Br~~.. ·~ 
. 

CORNERBACK 25 Vent&On Donelson 19 Freddie Wiilon 

Illinois wide receiver Elbert Turner runs for first-and are one of many teams In the Big Ten off to down yardage against Arizona State last a slow start In 1988. weekend. The Fighting llllnllost to the Sun Devils, 

The Obeerver I Mike Moran 
Mike Stonebreaker (42) looks In on the action as against Michigan In the season-opening victory the Irish defenH comes up with another big play for Notre Dame. 
Welcome 
continued from page 1 
"Things are going good for the linebackers," Stonebreaker said. "We're ro­tating, and we're all taking that in stride, because that can be difficult. We're helping each other out, encouraging each other. When we come off the field, we tell each other what happened and who's blocking who. 
"The whole defense has a lot of confidence," Stonebreaker continued. "We've been well prepared, but we're also really fired up." 
Football runs in the Stonebreaker family. Mike's father Steve played linebacker for the Baltimore Colts from 1964-66 after playing college football at Detroit. 
In his freshman season, the 
TAILBACK 
24 Milt\ Green 
40 Tony Brooke 
Spartan Offense Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 39 Braxston Banks 22 Anthony John1011 
FLANKER
~:ttatlerl 
17 Willie Bouyer 13 Pat Ellers Cii'l ~~w=ACK 


81 Bernard WHson TIGHT END. TACKLE c::iD.
T1GHT END TACKLE ~ 8 Sieve Belles TACKLE
.. _.P PP P P rsJ-Hd ,.o,..v~ ~"f) 
~ ~ p~'E=. p 
GUARD fM~~eldt GUARD CENTER 53 Winston Sandrl 52 Tim Ryan 75 Tim Grunhard 
GUARD 58 Dave Martin GUARD 68 George Marshall 58 Ted Healy 61 Vince Tala 56 Chris Piwowarczyk n Eric Moten 
52 Matt Keller 60 Jeff Wittig NOSE TACKLE 
TACKLE TACKLE 
. so Chris Zorich Irish Defense 
62 Cliff Confer 75 Travis Davis TACKLE 96 Steve Roddy TACKLE40 Tim Ridinger 64 Chris Soehnien 87 Jobn Budde 
69 George Williams 90 Jeff Aim : •. ,. 99 Chris Wlllertz : : fo~~~~~~~:~D 74 MlbrkoJurko~ b 92 Bryabn
Aannery D~~~~!~~,!~D 
: .:. . 37 Scott Kowalkowski ~ _ . 38 Darrell Gordon . . . · .• OUTSIDE ''NISBACKE:R 
. · ~ · · ·•·. · . . 3 Kurt LarSOn 
0
' 

, .• •· jo;~.;z·r~:~ 32 D'Juan Francisco INSIDE UNEBACKER~ 1 T-odd Lyght 34 Wes Pritchett 
MIDDLE UNEBAC.KER . ~­
• ·. 

48 Percy Snow ,, : . ~ 36 Donn Grimm\11 32 " Brian Jones ·. ~ 
FREE SAFETYFREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 31 Comy Southall ht6.
« John Miller 9 Mike laquanlello 15 Pat Terrell ·~ 9 Mike taquaniello 24 Lanier Payton 
CORNERBACK
•.. :. 'iflL'i:,.:, •. 57 Dixon Edwards 
AP Photo 

younger Stonebreaker made a name for himself with over 70 minutes of playing time in 10 games, including a starting job against LSU. He had nine solo tackles in addition to his 12 as­sists, and had one interception, setting up an Irish touchdown against SMU. The only game in which he did not see time in 1987 was the Michigan State game, and that discrepancy will be erased Saturday in East Lansing. 
As for his return this year, if the Michigan performance is any indication, Stonebreaker will be getting his chances to add to those statistics. 
"You never know what's going to happen in a game," he said. "If one of the linebackers is having a good game, he'll get the most playing time. We're not always all going to be playing at the same level." 
At the level Stonebreaker has been playing, the Irish are happy to have him back. 
p 88 Frank Jac:ot. 68 Andy Heck 71 Dean Brown 86 Rich Glcewlcz 71 Kevin Robbins ~ 

TAILBACK  
26 Blake Ezor  
21 Scott Setzer  
FULLBACK  
33 James Moore  
43 Steve Montgomery  
QUARTERBACK  SPUTEHD  
8 Bobby McAllister4 Dan Enos  1 Andre Rison 12 Brian Smolinski  

CORNERBACK14· INSIDE UNEBACKER 29 Stan Smagata
42 Mike Stonebreaker 20 Bob Satterfield 47 Ned Bolcar 
14 

STRONQ s'AFETY , . 27 George Streeter
W.,

t;l!)· 33 David Jandric 
''i. 

·­
-
..... 
-
-
-
page4 Irish Extra Friday, September 16, 1988
-
~~'---·,~T·;;.',~"":·.:..t.7'·~.if1L:D.~'~r.::4,·~..,.~~-~~.L,~~~'i1:L~.:11L~t.;.ff~~~~~.-:.-:I·.:DI:~------IIblmE-~~.~·l_:s;:.NWJ;.:_l 
Ara goes for 10-10 tie in 1966 with hobbled Irish 
By VIC LOMBARDI dubbed the "Poll Bowl" be­quarter as he was trampled by zaro's kick sailed wide right. ''You know, as a strategy, the Sports Writer cause of the teams' top the Spartans' ?J>)-pn"" l The Irish had one more move was brilliant, just bril­rankings and undefeal~d rn~nPhilrl R11bba S•,Hh T~ •~' ~hance to win on the final drive liant," said the man who later It took Ara Parseghian only marks. It was definitely a de­ball wa::; then in the hands of of the game. But instead of ag­. starred for the Baltimore Colts. three years to win his first na­fensive game, as the teams sophomore quarterback Coley gresively attacking, Notre "After all, if you· tie Notre tional championship at Notre punted a total of 16 times and O'Brien, who was receiving Dame kept the ball on the Dame, you lose. Why? Because 
compiled six turnovers. treatment for diabetes. ground until the clock finally they're Notre Dame." The Spartans struck first, O'Brien cut the Spartan lead expired for a 10-10 draw. But with a 10-10 deadlock
Time 

scoring all 10 of their points in to three when he found backup leaving both teams undefeated, 
Capsule 
the second quarter. Their first halfback Bob Gladieux wide "I simply wasn't going to who receives the No. 1 touchdown was a 4-yard plunge open on a post pattern. In the give away cheaply the tie our ranking? by fullback Regis Cavendar fourth quarter, the Irish tied crippled team fought so hard United Press International Dame. That season of 1966, the that capped a 73-yard drive. the game on a 28-yard field goal to obtain," Parseghian said gave it to the Spartans on the Irish outscored their opponents Then, kicker Dick Kenney split by Joe Azzaro. after the game. "If we had been basis that they topped the Irish 362-38 on their way to an unde­the posts from 47 yards out to On Michigan State's follow­in the middle of the field it in rushing, passing and first feated 9-0-1 record. Yet many make it a 10-0 Michigan State ing series, Notre Dame's Tom might had been different. But downs. The Associated Press fans were indignant for that advantage. Schoen intercepted a Michigan with the ball on our 35, I wasn't awarded the top spot to Notre one ugly blemish on their The Irish had to play withm~t State pass and Notre Dame going to risk a pass intercep­Dame. record. the use of halfback phenom took over at the Spartan 18-tion because of the great kick­The Irish proved they were 
That's nine wins, no losses Nick Eddy, who was injured yard line. The Irish lost eight ing ability of Michigan State's worhy of that No. 1 billing by and one memorable tie. after tripping down the stairs yards on three downs and Az­Dick Kenney." pulverizing USC the following
-· It was a 10-10 bump-and­of a train. Irish quarterback zaro came in to attempt a 24-Michigan State's Smith saw week,-51-0, and winning the na­grind stalemate against Mic­Terry Hanratty suffered a yarder. Notre Dame's bid to the logic in Parseghian's deci­tional championship in both higan State. The game was separated shoulder in the first take the lead failed when Az-sion. polls.
-

IRISH SlATS ISPt\RTAN SlATS ,·SCHEDULES 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TD LG TEAM STATISTICS MSU OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TD LG NOTRE DAME (1-Q) d. MICHIGAN, 19-17 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 266 213 Green 18 68 3.8 0 16 TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 358 333 Ezor 33 196 5.9 0 34 Sept. 17 -at Michigan State Total Plays 55 63 Rice 7 52 7.4 0 21 Total Plays 66 69 McAllister 7 58 8.3 1 40 Sept. 24 -PURDUE Yards per Play 4.84 3.38 Johnson 7 49 7.0 0 22 Yards per Play 5.4 4.8 Seizer 4 18 4.5 0 7 Oct. 1 -STANFORD Yards per Game 266.0 213.0 Brooks 7 48 6.9 0 19 Yards per Game 358.0 333.0 Montgomery 1 7 7 0 7 Oct. 8 -at Pittsburgh
PENALTIES-YARDS 2-24 3-30 Banks 3 10 3.3 0 6 PENALTIES-YARDS 8-80 7-56 Moore 2 3 1.5 0 4 Oct. 1!j-MIAMI 
FUMBLES-LOST 2-1 1-1 Watters 1 -1 -1 0 ·1 FUMBLES-LOST 1-1 0-0 Pryor 1 -4 -4 0 -4 Oct. 22 -AIR FORCE
NO 43 234 5.3 0 22 MSU 48 278 5.8 1 40
13 Oct. 29 -at NavyTOTAL FIRST DOWNS 15 
OPPONENTS 52 151 2.7 2 18 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 20 20 OPPONENTS 33 94 2.9 0 
Nov. 5-RICEBy Rushing 12-7 By Rushing 15 8 

Nov. 19-PENN STATE Nov. 26 -at Southern CalBy Passing 2 5 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG By Passing 3 9 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG

By Penalty 1 1 By Penalty 2 3
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 11-4 15-6 Alaniz 1 23 23 0 23 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 13-5 17-9 Young 5 51 10.2 0 16 MICHIGAN STATE (D-1)Percentage 36 40 Brooks 1 18 18 0 18 
Percentage 39 53 Ezor 1 3 3 0 3 I. RUTGERS, 17-13POSSESSION TIME 24:11 35:49 Green 1 -1 -1 0 -1 
POSSESSION TIME 29:43 30:17 Rison 1 17 17 0 17 Sept. 17-NOTRE DAMEMinutes per Game 24:11 35:49 NO 3 40 13.3 . 0 23 Minutes per Game 29:43 30:17 Gicewicz 1 9 9 0 9 Sept. 24 -at Florida State
OPPONENTS 8 74 9.3 0 19 MSU 8 80 10.0 0 17 Oct. 1 -IOWA OPPONENTS 25 239 9.6 2 Oct. 8.-at MichiganSCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP Oct. 15 -NORTHWESTERNPASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TO SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP PASSING NO co PCT INT YDS TO Oct. 22 -at Illinois

Ho 0 1-1 0-0 0 4-4 13 Langeloh 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 2-2 7 Oct. 29-OHIO STATE
Watters 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-Q 6 Tony Rice 12 3 .250 1 40 0 McAllister 1 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 McAllister 18 8 .444 0 80 0 Nov. 5 -at Purdue
NO 1 1-1 0-Q 0 4-4 19 NO 12 3 .250 1 40 0 MSU 1 1 1-1 0-0 0 2-2 13 MSU 18 8 .444 0 80 0 
Nov. 12 -at Indiana

OPP 2 2-2 0-0 0 1-2 17 OPP 11 8 .727 0 74 0 OPP 1 2 2-2 0-0 0 1-1 17 OPP 36 25 .694 0 239 2 Nov. 19-WISCONSIN 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE MICHIGAN STATE OFFENSE MICHIGAN STATE DEFENSE 
POS NO PLAYER HT WTCL RE 30 Frank Starns 6-4 237Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WTCL LE 66 Matt Vanderbeek 6-4 245Sr. SE 80 Steve Alaniz 6-2 196Sr, 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226So. SE 1Andre Rison 5-11 190Sr. 96 Bill Johnson 6-5 275So. 25 Raghib Ismail 5-10 175Fr. LT 69George Williams 6-3 282So. 12 Brian Smolinski 5-11 182Jr. LT 62 Cliff Confer 6-3 275Jr. QT 66Andy Heck 6-7 2nsr. 7 4 Mirko Jurkovic 6-5 270Fr. FL 17WIIIIe Bouyer 6-3 200Sr. 40Tim Ridinger 6-1 241 Sr. 72Joe Allen 6-4 268So. NT 50 Chris Zorich 6-1 260So. 81 Bernard Wilson 6-0 179Sr. RT 75 Travis Davis 6-3 270Sr. QG 53 Winston Sandrl 6-4 253So. 96 Steve Roddy 6-2 237Sr. LT 63Bob Kula 6-4 275Sr. 64 Chris Soehnlen 6-2 255Jr. 68George Marshall 6-2 243So. RT 90Jeff Aim 6-7 246Jr. 70Bob Henry 6-6 250So. DE 87 John Budde 6-4 255Sr. c 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 258So. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 249Jr. LG 77 Eric Moten 6-3 264Jr. 99 Chris Willertz 6-4 260Jr. 52Tim Ryan 6-4 245So. DE 7Andra Jones 6-4 215So. GO Jeff Wittig 6-6 244So. OLB 51 Carlos Jenkins 6-4 215Jr. 
TG 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 279Jr. 38 Darrell Gordon 6-3 214Sr. c 58 Dave Martin 6-3 254Sr. 54 Tony Briningstool 6-4 223So. 56Ted Healy 6-4 258Jr. ILB 34 Was Pritchett 6-6 251 Sr. 56 Chris Piwowarczyk 6-3 238So. MLB 48 Percy Snow 6-3 230Jr. n 71 Dean Brown 6-3 283Jr. 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 224So. RG 61 VInce Tata 6-2 266Sr. 32 Brian Jones 6-1 220Jr. 73Justin Hall 6-5 290Fr. ILB 42Mike 6-1 226Jr. 52 Matt Keller 6-4 269Jr. OLB 3Kurt Larson 6-4 240Sr. TE 88 Frank Jacobs 6-5 234So. Stonebreaker RT 71 Kevin Robbins 6~5 290Sr. 57Dixon Edwards 6-1 206Jr. 
86 Derek Brown 6-7 235Fr. 47Ned Bolcar 6-2 232Sr. 69 Jim Johnson 6-6 285So. CB 6Derrick Reed 5-10 193Sr. QB 9Tony Rice 6-1 198Jr. CB 32D'Juan Francisco 5-11 187Sr. TE 86 Rich Glcewlcz 6-4 250Sr. 25 Ventson Donelson 6-Q 178Jr. 8Steve Belles 6-4 211Sr. 1Todd Lyght 6-1 181 So. 29Duane Young 6-2 255Jr. FS 44John Miller 6-1 190Sr. FB 39 Braxston Banks 6-3 211 Jr. CB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186Jr. QB 8Bobby McAllister 6-3 193Sr. 9Mike laquaniello 6-4 198Jr. 22 Anthony Johnson 6-0 225Jr. 20 Bob Satterfield 6-0 181 Sr. 4Dan Enos 6-2 190Jr. ss 9Mike laquanlello 6-4 198Sr. TB 24Mark Green 6-0 184Sr. ss 27 George Streeter 6-2 212Sr. FB 33 James Moora 6-2 200Sr. 24 Lenier Pay1on 6-3 187 Jr. 40Tony Brooks 6-2 218So. 33 David Jandric 6-2 192Jr. 43 Steve Montgomery 6-2 229Sr. CB 25Ventson Donal-6-Q 178Jr. 
FL 12Ricky Watters 6-2 201 So. FS 31 Corny Southall 6-2 194Sr. TB 26 Blake Ezor 5-10 180Sr. son 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 197Sr. 15Pat Terrell 6-0 195Jr. 21 Scott Seizer 5-9 185So. 19 Freddie Wilson 5-11 200Jr. PK 2Reggle Ho 5-5 135Jr. p 16Jim Sexton 6-Q 188So. PK 10John Langeloh 6-2 185Jr. p 88Josh Butland 6-5 230So. 18 Billy Hackett 6-1 184So. 14 Sean Connor 6-7 218Sr. 
Mj!F1·~~·,,

N»Jt&4SJDW!&M #!L .-11 '~~~BE& X& E.· l',z ew• 451!¥ IRgjm. ii"'?SM····~ -·.;,iii.............._••--... '
-PM* --iilliii"' 
.... PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't Theresa Kelly Jane Shea Pete Sklko Steve Megargee Marty Straaen Krls Colligan Sweet C. 






enough to pick the winner of a given Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Editor Random Student Guest Celebrity game. The person must pick the 8-6-0 8-6-o 8-6-0 7-7-Q 6-8-0 9-5-0 5-9-0 winner and give the underdog .571 .571 .571 .500 .429 .642 .358 
(last week: 8-6-Q) (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 8-6-Q) (last week: 7-7-Q) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 5-9-Q)
points. Home team is in CAPS. 

AIR FORCE over Northwestern by 18 
Wildcats Falcons Falcons Wildcats Falcons Falcons Wildcats
' 

PITTSBURGH over Ohio State by 3.5 
Buckeyes Panthers Buckeyes Panthers Buckeyes Buckeyes BuckeyesINDIANA over Kentucky by 7.5 
Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Wildcats Hoosiers Hoosiers Wildcats 
IOWA over Colorado by 6.5 

Haw keyes Hawk eyes Buffaloes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Haw keyes 
-
Miami (Fla.) over MICHIGAN by 7 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes
Hurricanes Hurricanes Wolverines Hurricanes 

PENN STATE over Boston College by 7.5 
Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Eagles Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions 
Temple over NAVY by 2 

Midshipmen Midshipmen Midshipmen Owls Owls Midshipmen Owls 
Florida State over CLEMSON by 2 
Tigers Tigers Tigers Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Tigers
OKLAHOMA over Arizona by 23 
Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners 
MISSOURI over Houston by 2 

Tigers 'rigers Cougars Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers
STANFORD over San Diego State by 12 
-Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Aztecs Aztecs Cardinal Aztecs 
Alabama over TEXAS A&M by 2 Crimson Tide Aggies Aggies Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Aggies AggiesLsu over TENNESSEE by 3.5 Volunteers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers TigersNotre Dame over MSU by 1 Irish Irish Spartans Irish Irish Irish Irish 
-

Friday, September 16, 1988 
-' 
pus ~r s and En er ainmen 


by the National Association of Campus Activities). 
Cole wants his comedy to move you so much that you'd want to get to know him · more, or as he puts it, "want to go talk and have a beer with him." 
He has a busy and success­ful career, touring comedy clubs across the States and about 150 campuses a year. Not to mention appearances on television and as the opening act for groups such as the Talking Heads. 
Considering himself to be very lucky in life, he wants to show appreciation for his suc­cess by "making as many people laugh as possible." 
So, go tonight, relax and get ready for some great laughs with your "Pal AI." 
Special to the Observer 
A
four dance program by the Ohio Ballet opens the 1988-89 Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series to­morrow night at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Blending classical and modern styles, the troupe exists in a state of constant evolution, according to its founder and artistic director, Heinz Poll. Based in Akron, Ohio, the group's home since its beginning in 1968, Poll looks for dancers with strong classical technique and an emphasis on vitality, athleticism and personality. 
Praised by critics for its speed, precision and ''eminently All-American style," the Ohio offers selec­tions that expand the dancers as artists. At the same time, Poll says there must be "something kinetic that the audience can respond to" as well. 
Leading off the program is the Pilobulus work "Untitled," highlighted by towering 
-
females (actually individual dancers atop the shoulders of their colleagues) racing about the stage. "Summer Night," a more lyrical piece, with choreography by Poll and music by Chopin follows. 
"Gravity," with music and choreography by Laura Dean, one of modern dance's bright­est stars, is the third work, followed by the evening's finale, the playfully-danced "Games." Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 19 in F Major provides the music for the piece, choreographed by Poll ­and first performed less than a year ago. 
Tickets for the Ohio Ballet are priced at $7.50, $6.50, and $5.50, and are available at the O'Laughlin Auditorium box ­
office. Visa and MasterCard are accepted by calling 284­4626. 
f-
Etc. 
Friday, September 16, 1988 
A goodbye letter to Pasquerilla West 
Everybody in PW knew that the priest and his dog, living behind the door marked ''CHAPLAIN,'' were moving to Stanford. Last Tuesday, I finally put the last dusty book in a box, the last tired-looking T-shirt in a shopping bag, handed in the key, and announced that I was finished vacating the premises. I felt sad to be leaving and expect to stay bereaved for some time to come. I loved  of an incident, unabashedly sentimental, that happened in 1980. My first dog, my original Darby O'Gill, got sick, and I had to feed him digitalis for his tired heart. Every night, I took him to the Grotto, praying to keep him with me a little longer. Mter a month, it became clear he wasn't going to make it. It was as though Our Lady were telling me: "Your dog is tired now and needs to rest. Don't grieve when he goes to sleep.  chaplain is, I think, the sooner the bridges will be built. None of this means that I'm over the hill, ready to start pushing up daisies. I was a little outdated when I went to PW, disappointed to find out that I wasn't to be the regu­lar celebrant of the Sunday liturgy. That's the way the cookie crumbled in all the women's dorms: having no resident priests, they invited guest celebrants and enjoyed  I'm complaining. New styles and models of ministry are evolving at Notre Dame. Stu­dents are encouraged to help plan the hall liturgies, and they do so with an increasing eye on the richness of wor­ship and the meaningfulness of the Sabbath gathering. They shouldn't have to worry if a slightly pre-Vatican II style of cleric has his nose out of joint on Sunday nights when a Young Darby O'Gill­model priest is preaching the  gave them reasons; wise men never tried. As the priest asked to initiate an experi­ment in hall life, I feel like a failure. Part of what I was dealing with has to do with the ex­panding role women are taking in the ministry of the Church. I have no problem sharing a pastoral role with women; but some of the brightest and best women, I suspect, and maybe some of the men, would have a prob- 
having a variety of priests  Gospel to them.  lem sharing a pastoral role  
Father Robert Griffin  saying Mass. In the old days in Keenan, I said the 5 p.m. Mass every  Another problem that I had as a priest in residence in PW was that of living away from  with an old relic of tradition like me. Eventually, we will work it all out at Notre  
,  Letters to a Lonely God  Sunday for many years; and for 12 of those years, I said  the student sections. It was the same way in the years I  Dame; but it will have to be worked out with someone  
Mass for the children on Sun- spent occupying rooms in  more promising than I am.  
living in PW; it was the  You'll have as his replace- day mornings. I made a  Keenan's lobby. Those rooms  When asked if I wanted to  
nicest home I have had up to now, and the people there are  ment a newer, younger ver­sion to be your sidekick in  virtue out of being there faithfully, come hell or high  have been converted into a ladies' facility, because they  move back to Keenan-Stanford, I felt I should move  
among the most wonderful I  campus ministry."  water, even when I was  are too far out of touch to be  for the sake of whatever ful­ 
have ever met.  The day after the first  tempted to be elsewhere.  suitable housing for a resi­ fillment awaits me in my  
When I went there in the  Darby died, the second  In PW, I asked the favor of  dent assistant.  remaining years in a dorm  
second semester of the hall's  Darby, nine weeks old, ar­ saying the Sunday Mass at  In 116 PW, Darby and I had  where nobody minds if I'm  
existence, I felt I had been  rived. The old dog's ashes are  least twice a month. The  no neighbors on the entire  old-fashioned in my expecta­ 
given a specialized mission:  buried in the Grotto.  then-rector replied that the  floor except the field mice  tions as a chaplain. I hope  
the first priest (with one ex­ception) to live in a dorm for  I promise the women of PW: I have not left you or- liturgy committee already had a guest list of celebrants  that climbed in the window to visit food sales, and Our Lord  Stanfordites will not feel they're getting the short end  
women at Notre Dame. The  phans. A fresh, new chaplain  they were anxious to wel­ in the Blessed Sacrament,  of the stick in allowing me  
expectation was that within  will come: whether man or  come. By the end, I was  tabernacled in the chapel  back. I may be singing the  
the year more priests would  woman, priest, sister, bro- lucky to say the Sunday Mass  down the hall. When the door  September Song, but as  
be moving into women's  ther, or lay person, I can't  twice in a semester, and the  of 116 was open, the place  Sinatra reminds us: "The au­ 
dorms; and maybe women  predict. Whoever it is will be  guests were more visible in  was too public, like Grand  tumn weather turns the  
religious could move into  a regular young pup of a  the chapel than I was. Even- Central Station. When the  leaves to flame." I hope that  
guys' dorms as chaplains.  chaplain, aggressive in get­ tually, something of the same  door was closed, it was too  applies to ministry.  
Eventually, it was hoped,  ting the attention of strang­ kind started happening with  private, and it could get quite  Perhaps PW will invite me  
married couples would be in­ ers, like a dog who makes  the weekday Masses, and I  lonely.  back as a guest celebrant at  
vited to make their homes in  friends easily. No dog is an  wondered what I was sup- I felt embarrassed to be  a Sunday liturgy, though the  
the student residences at  island, and neither is the  posed to be doing as the faith­ ~  seen moving from PW, not  experience could be bit- 
Notre Dame.  chaplain who wants to build  ful chaplain.  knowing what to tell students.  tersweet when I remember  
When asked, "Why are you leaving PW?" I'm reminded  bridges between young adults and Christ. The younger the  If you perceive pain behind my words, that doesn't mean  Who could explain it? Who could tell them why? Fools  see '  GRIFFIN a e 159' P  

l~;;;~~~~~~~=~~~==~~====::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:===:==::==::::,llll/11111111111111/llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll. 
-
-
--
S/1111 I< J,\; '•( JJI./:R J>RESEN /.<,
Student Union .Board PRESENTS: 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 AT 8:00 p.m. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
"DANCERS OF ASTONISHING TALENT AND INGENUITY." 
-The New Yorker 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111······111 

Tuesday-Friday Tickets will be on 
$4 student 
sale at the LaFortune Information 
$6 general public 
Desk. 


Friday, September 16, 1988 The Observer 
page 13 

111a ~Notn1 Dame office, located on the third Hoof of LaFonune Stu­dent c.nt.r, IICCeP'-cluelfled ~IMnQ from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Mondlly through Frtc~ar. The ~Saint Mery"a omc., located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, IICCeP'-clu8ifleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtc~ar. Deedllne for next-<lay claaalfledala3 p.m. All ciAIIfleda muat
Classifieds 
be PftiPIIICI, either In pen1011 or by mall. The charoe Ia 10 cent. Plf five 
~perdi,Y. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-'082 WORDPROCESSING 237-111411 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-740f3 CHRISTMAS SHOPPING WITH AVON 277·740f3 ..................... WORD PROCESSING 277-5014 WORD PROCESSING CAU TERRIE 287-1283 LASER PRINTER PAPERS, RESUMES (VARIETY TYPE STYLES, SAVE!\JPDATE), EN­VI!LOPES, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, ALSO PICKUPAlELIVERY. 11.25 OS, 11.50 SS, 15.00 RESUMES. Help!Englf'hil books gone from Univ. Storage, lronwd Must have.No ?a,big reward. Call Brian 1872  Realllurant Opportunltlea The Olive Garden llllllen Reataurant, with Ita lively aplrlt and unique garden Mlllng, Ia now hiring ALL POSinONS: . Hoata & Hoateuea . Bartendera . Waltera & Wallreuea . Caahlera . Dlahwaa~tlllty . Una cooka . Production & Prep Cooke . BuaMra . Paalll Makera PINM apply 2prn-4pm, dally, at: The Olive Garden 8410 Grape Road Mlahawaka An Equal Opportunity Employer THE OUVE GARDEN The Accent'• On Succeaa VOCALIST -wanted for original band. Exp. male only. X3066  NEED 1 PU-STUDENT TICKET CALL JOHN 1427 I NEED 1 PURDUE TIX CALL MARY 4072 Need 6 Penn State GA's desperately! Call II 4861 for instant profit! I need one ticket for Purdue. STIJD or GA. Willing to buy or to trade for Air Force. Cindy x4149 . I need 2 or 3 Air Force GAs. Please call Kate 2526 . I need 2 GA and 1 Student tlx for Purdue . Call Brad II 3170 Need GAs 2 Miami, 4 Penn State, Call It 3348 for much $$$$ Parents 25th Annlvll Need 2 PURDUE GA'S Big $$$ or trade for Stu Tix Mike x1586 NEED 2 STUD AND 2 GOOD GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME$$$ CALL 1535 My life is in jeopardy! I need two AIR FORCE GAs $$ Laura X4962  NEED 2 RICE GA'S JQHN x2039 PLEASE/I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-1 STANFORD TIX x4364 ............................................................. 4 MICH. ST. TIXS FOR SALE.272-6863 NEED GA'S 4 PURDUE & STANDFORD WILL TRADE MIAMI,AF STIJ & $. CALL ED 289-5605. Miami Ticket (Studant)-J. Evans 2165 ...................................,............................ NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S let Mom & Dad see the Irish! KELLY 288­5737 NEED STANFORD TICKETS: Two GA's and One Student, or One GA and Two Studant. Anyhow, tha three of them want to comen Give MEGAN a call at 25n if you can help! NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S for old alumni friend. Your support is greatly appreciat­ed, call Mike at x2344. Money Is littl&llo concern! ................................................................  LINDA, I'M SORRY THINGS HAVE'NT BEEN GOING TOO WELL LATELY! I DO LOVE YOU, AND I HOPE WE GET ANOTHER CHANCE. KEN CRY FREEDOM/ CRY FREEDOM! Am­nesty International presents "Cry Freedom" a film about South Africa on Friday at 7 pm In Carroll Aud. at SMC Versatile female singer looking for a band. Call Linda -4283. LAFORTIJNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN HOUSE DRAWING WINNERS Kathy Z.fenock MellueCaaper Tim Sullivan • Keith Abney Chrle Kfeva I. Anllll Echevarria David Brooke LouiM Mackey Jaaon Wlnellld Andrew Lelk Tim Weber Molly McCabe SuNn Mackin Greg Crow  Thankyou Sl. Jude for prayers answered SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES CHECK YOUR MAIL­BOXES FOR YOUR PERSONAL INVITATION FOR TME EVENT OCT. 711111 HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE ELIZABETH DULL I LOVE VAll KAS CALL AND WISH JULIE DULl HAPPY BIRTHDAY 3720 Dear Marty, Well, n·s about tlmell/ Happy 21st, belllsslmo. Love, Trlcia i:is:.\"'HeisM:.\"N;·FiosMA.iiiN'~L;:;;.:i/e·;.: WILD.21ST B-OAY P.S. ARE WE GET­TING SERIOUS? GLEIIIIBY INTERNATIONAL IS LOOKING FOR MODELS! 11118 Fell Faahfon Pevlew with Scott Cole of London Both Male and Female modele..-. ehort-long hair SEPTEMBER 28TM AND OCTOBER 17TM All Cu111 done FREE-the 1-t t.. hlonal  . .I  
LOST/FOUND ·I I LOST MY CLASS RING SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS (MAYBE THE LIBRARY) SOMETIME DURING THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS. THE RING LOOKS LIKE MOST GUY'S NO RINGS, GOLD WITH A BLUE STONE, BUT THE ENGRAVING INSIDE SAYS "S.A.K. 89" I'M OFFERING A BIG REWARD ($$SS) IF YOU CAN HELP ME FINO IT. NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF YOU'VE HAD IT FOR AWHILE. PLEASE CALL ME IF YOU CAN HELP THANKSI SCOTT 1075 LOST FRIDAY lW BETWEEN C-t AND O'SHAG, A BLUE WALLET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL EILEEN AT 287·2882 BEFORE 10:00 P.M. PLEASE, I HAVE NO IDENTITY WITHOUT THIS. LOST near Fa~eyl Blue 10 holder with Iowa Drivers LICense. Will Reward! x4059  I NEED: 1. Ride to Mpls area Purdue or Stanford wknd 2. 2 A. F. ga's 3. 1 Rica stu 4. 1 Stan stu I HAVE: 1. 1 Miami & 1 Purd stu 2.$$$ Call 2119 .............................................................. NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH. LEAVE 9-23, RETURN 9-25. WILL PAY GAS. CALL ANGELA 3440. I FORSALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. ............................................................. FOR SALE: CASIO CZ-101 program·  Will trade 2 AlrForca GA for 2 MIAMI. PLEASE call 2238 NEED MIAMI STUD OR GA TIX 288­4160 4SALE Season ::;wa I IX. :,oyra una 11 1803 LIFE IS ELSEWHERE( NEED 1 PURDUE GA. PLEASE CALL II 3023 OR II 2999. I have a VERY WEAL TV Irish uncle who needs to see the Miami gamel He will pay BIG $$$ for GAsl If not Miami, then any other home game. Please call Vic at 36611 DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY BIG$$$$. CALL MIKE X1380. HELP/ Tha first of our Sr. Year Ultimate Road Trips takes place this wkd. at MICH ST. but we need 4 TICKETS (or 3, 2, or 1). Please call 2722. .................................................. I NEED lOTS 0' STANFORD GA'S­ 2 PURD. STUDS 4 SALE CALL x3201 LEAVE 601/ PURD. GA 50 YO LN x3201 LEAVE BOll 4 Safe: 2 pefra Purdue GA'a, 1 Slllnlord atud; 289-5808 NEED TWO PURDUE G.A.'S CALL SHANNON AT 284-4376. PERSONALS ORDER USA TODAY delivered to your dorm door. CALL 277-1859 CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHENANIGANS 2n-1121 CAIIIII'US BANDS NEEDED CAU DAVE AT SHANANIGANS 2n-1121  Scoll Spurr Corne to the Student Actlvltfee Office to claim your prize. GROUPS ... GROUPS ... GROUPS You don't have to figure It out alone! Groupa lor peraonal growth, a-­If-•, weight managament, aup­port lor black women and adult children of alcoholic• are beginning NOW. Call239-73381or delalla. Vicky E. Look upl The ceiling may be leaking. I NEED GA OR STUD TICKETS FOR STANOFORD. PLEASE CALL KATH­LEEN 5176 SMC I NEED AS MANY AS POSSIBLE! I NEED 5 GA PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN 5176 SMCI I AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE I CALL JEN SMC 43111  11 lntereatlld call Deb or Merle 272-7412 ................................................................ THE SWAMP--A YOU GOT IT, WE WANT IT! ................................................................ BEWAREII BEWARE OF THE BLITZIII BEWARE--THE B.P. BLITZ IS BACKIII BEWARE--THE B.P. BLITZ IS BACKIII In 1988 B.P. stands for unBeatable Powerhouse/ The BLITZ Ia BACK and looking to REPEAT so LOOK OUT be­cause B.P.'s going to BLOW OUTII LOOK SHARP111 WE ARE B.P.111 PLATYPUS: DON'T BE AFRAID OF THE WATER; IT'S YOUR HOME II HAPPY BIRTMDAY BIG Hllfllllfllflllllllll WE LOVE YOU EVEN THOUGH YOU SLEEP WITH YOUR WARDROBE! HAVE A GREAT DAY If  
LOST: A PAIR OF BROWN VAURNET SUNGLASSES AT THE NOOICH. GAME IF YOU FIND THEM PLEASE RETURN A.S.A.P. THEY WERE A GIFT REWARD/I SUSAN SMC 5039  mabie, digital SYNTHESIZER -new con­dition, with carrying case and instruc­tions: TEAC TASCAM PORTA-ONE MINI STUDIO -4 track muhimixer and recorder, new condition, wrth adapter and instructions. CALL JOE II 1865 ..................... ................................. ..  CALL DAN AT 4115 HATE MIAMI111 HATE MIAM1111 HATE MIA\11111 I NEED 7 ( YES 7 ) MIAMI GA TIX11111 CALL x1245 or x1352 RICH ALUMNUS NEEDS 2 STANFORD  Thank you St. Jude and the Holy Spirit: you have never failed me. JMB HEY, THE PRES. OF THE WINDSURF­ING CLUBCALL JOHN AT 283-3349. I  Hey, Daiquiri Quean! Happy 18th! Cows Forever sensl NOT11 Jule, You RULEIII Love, Ann, Jenny, Moira ATTENTION N.D. CHICKS: GERRY, DREW, AND PAUL -THOSE HUNKS  KUZ, SO, WHERE ARE YOU GETTING YOUR HAMBURGER? SIGNED, THE MEATCUTTER-AKA MEATHEAD! NOT GOING TO MICH. ST.?? Spend your Friday night at Club 23 ... with  
LOST· A BLUE WALLET·SOMETIME FRIDAY NIGHT. NEED IT BACK FASTIII CONTACT ROSI AT II 3567.  FOR SALE: NEW CARPETI110' BY 12' PIECES CALL BRENT AT 1763 25$ PER PIECE  GA'S. CALL KEVIN AT 616-455-11412 (HOME) OR 816-7111·3621 (WORK).  WANT TO JOIN THE CLUB. THANKS. LIVE MUSIC 10 Pllll-?  FROM CARROLL HALL ··WILL LEAVE THEIR ...RRRROOOMS SATURDAY TO SEE THE IRISH KICK SOME BUTT ON  Sean & the Sun Kings Uve acousffc music from 9 p.m. unff/ 1 a.m.  
I  NEED  TIX  FOR  MICH.ST.  &  ALL  NO COVER  MICH.  STATE.  SORRY  GIRLS,  BUT  $1 cover  
LOST .. My fake Gold watch at the Lake while trying to lose something elsa last week. It you have any rdea where It Is  TECHNICS AMPLIFIER 50WATT IYR; EXCELLENT TION $100; CALL 1716  SA290; CONDI­ HOME GAMES.272-6306 JUST NEED 1 PURDUE GA NO TIME  BOKO MARU AT MCCORMICK'S 115 N. MICHIGAN  WE'LL BE BACK NEXT WEEKEND. GO VERMIN, AND GO IRISHI!I  S..n & the Sun Klnga at Club 23  
please call Mrka at 3322.  IS TOO LATE NO PRICE IS TOO LARGE  DOWNTOWN  THE NO PUNCH SOCIETY  
LOFT FOR SALE. CALL 237-7192.  CALL JAY X4415 TOLL FREE  HELLO FELLOW STUDENTS -IN OR­ 
LOST· sat of dorm keys on white circular Chicago Bulls keynng. It found please call II 1661 Halp11 I lost a mothar o'pearf and brass bracelet somewhere near Cavenaugh on  ................................................................ TICKETS NEED 4 GA'S FOR  I Need 4 GAs for MIAMI, call Paul x1847 GA & STU nx needed lpr Purdue game. MOney is no object.4521-Pat  I HAVE $20 FOR A PURDUE STUD TICKET CALL CHRIS 272-8689 AVOID THE RUSHIIII  DER TO SPICE UP YOUR LUNCHTIME READING WE AT THE NO PUNCH SOCIErY ARE PROVIDING PUNCHLINES FREE OF CHARGE WE SUPPLY THE PUNCHLINE, YOU  SEE Saan & lhe Sun Kings ... AT Club 23... WELCOME HOME STIJDENTS FROM ABROADIll STUDENT GOVERNMENT INVITES YOU  
9· t0. Has great semanfal value-$$ reward for return! call Enn at 4915 if you can halp mel!  PURDUE CALL X2743  NEED 4 GA'S TO ANY HOME'(>AME MONEY IS NO OBJECT CALL DAVE '1427  Hata Rice Eerlyffl CHICAGO BUS TRIP--WINDY CITY  SUPPLY THE JOKE ANY BELLYACHERS WILL BE PRINTED AT OUR EXPENSE. WHAT A  TO A FREE ICE CREAM SOCIAL TUES­DAY, SEPTEMBER 20 FROM 3:30-5:00 IN THEODORE'S. BRING YOUR PIC­ 
LOST·LAST THURSDAY AT SMC: 4· LEAF CLOVER PENDANT, HIGH SEN­TIMENTAl VALUE. REWARD. PLEASE CALL JOYCE AT 5430. FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY for game weekends. 219-291·7153 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255­3884288-0955 2 BEDROOM HOME ON NOTRE DAME AVE. 272-63041 FURNISHED ROOMS FOR RENT S120MO, NEAR CAMPUS. 272-6308 ................................................................  ........................ NEED 2 GA's TO PENN STATE. BRIAN 272-0291 ... ................ .. I need 4 GA's for Rice. Call Nancy 4434 NEED 2 GA's FOR AIR FORCE CALL ANN 284-4043 ..................... NEED MIAMI TICKETS/ WILl DO ANYTHING WITHIN ETHICAL AND LE­GAL LIMITS TO GET MIAMI STUDS OR GA'S CALL SHARON! II 2873 Do you need student tickets? Call 2753 or 2n5734 Mom and Dads first visit: help me make n a good one Need4 PURDUE tix call 2226 John HELPI MY PARENTS WILL COME AU THE WAY FROM ALASKA IF I HAVE  NEED EXTRA STUD TIX? I HAVE EX­TRA STUD TIX FOR ALL remaining home garnea. However, I need two Air Force GA'alor my parenta. lam willing to: 1. TRADE any two atud tfx lor two AF GA'a 2. TRADE two Purdue atuda lor two AF GA'a OR PAY big bucka for two AF GA'e (Forget the acafplng pollcyf) Calf Jeff at X1802 a~r 11prn MIAMI-TIX·MIAMI-TIX-MIAMI-TIX LIS· TEN UP DUOESI!I I AM WILLING TO GIVE UP MY MIAMI STUD TICKET AND GIVE YOU $$$ FOR 3 GA'S TO THE PENN ST. GAME. CALL JOHN AT 277­3997. $$$$ NEED PURDUE GA'S BADLY $$$$ CALL x1 649 HELPIII I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'sl CALL GREG x1655  SHUTTLE' sponsored by the Student Ac­tivities Office, will run this Saturday, Sep­tember 17. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 9:45 am and return at 10 pm . Tickets are available for $1 0.00 at lhe Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. Next shultle will run Saturday, October 8. FIRESIDECHAT NOON TODAY JOSIE RAVEN WING TOPIC: NATIVE AMERICAN DANCE ISO LOUNGE, LAFORTUNE LUNCH PROVIDED T -Shirts Printed to your specifications Call 2389, Chris ,,,..,, ......................................................... HEY111 I need a 'HATE MIAMI' 1-shirt anlfur one of lhe ones with the ball going  DEAL! CALL X3136 WITH YOUR JOKE. YOUR FIRST PUNCH IS: PYGMIES SITTING AROUND A CAMPFIRE THE NO PUNCH SOCIETY IN ORDER TO SPICE UP YOUR LUNCH, WE ARE PROVIDING PUNCHLINES FREE OF CHARGE WE SUPPLY THE PUNCHLINE, YOU SUPPLY THE JOKE I WE WILL PRINT BELLYACHERS AT OUR EXPENSE. WHAT A DEAL/ CALL 3136 WITH YOUR JOKE YOUR FIRST PUNCH IS­PYGMIES SITTING AROUND A CAMPFIRE FO STRUMMER, PIE AND GIO  TURES AND REMINESCEI ...... .......... ...... . GRETZKY, Sorry you didn't score -Hope you find your watch! ,F5 ATTN: MISS "X" ,F4 Call Rich x4339 DEAR CHIVALROUS LONELY MALE: THIS YOUNG GIRL BELEIVES IN TRADITIONAL ROMANCE AND STIMULATING CONVERSATION ALSO. ARE YOU THE ONLY TRADI· TIONAL GUY LEFT? TO ALL THOSE GUYS AT ZAHM WHO GOT DOWN ON THEIR KNEES FOR US, THIS BUTT'S FOR YOU! THANKS FOR EVERYTHING PEACHES&CREAM, ROXY&COOKIE JENNY JALOVICI!I HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY TO ONE OF OUR FAVOR­ITE LOVE, HEIDI AND MEG  - 
WANTED  2 STANFORD TICKETS. NOW.  CALL 3541  ·I NEED 2 PURDUE GAsll WILL PAY $$$1 CALL X29561 ..........................................................  thru lhe goalpost and the schedule on the back. It you're selling them or have an extra, call Kelly at 2718  VANELLI Paint Fights and ICed leas. Now ~he fun begins! Take Care. Hose A  TURBO ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER GAME  ',  
Cocktail W81tressas Variety of shiHs,will work around claases,good money. Apply at Ramada Inn of South Bend. DESPERATELY Need 2-3 PENN STATE TICKETSil Please call Heather al 277­3288 aHer 5 p.m.  DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL ERIN AT 3757. I REALLY NEED 4 STANFORD STU­DENT TIX TWO STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE AND 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE COMING IN FOR MY BIRTHDAY. PLEASE HELP ME  Will trade 1 Miami stud. tick and $$ for 2 Penn State GA's. Call Allison X4341 A MATTER OF LIFE OR DEATH. WILL TRADE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S FOR 2 PURDUE GA'S X1213 ASK FOR MARK NEED 1 STANFORD STUD. TICKET  NEED PURDUE G.A.'S NEED PURDUE G.A.'S NEED PURDUE G.A.'S I need 8 llx, end I'm willing to pay more lor -ta that are together. They muat at r.ast be In pairs, NO afngfea. John at x2045.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOOTS! We all hope your 20th birthday Ia the beet. Be ready to celebrate tonight! Love, Laura, Jul.. & Kath Watch out Michigan State/ tt's Anne Mowchan's birthday and she's ready to celebrate. BEWARE!  LET'S HOPE THINGS ARE MUCH THE SAME THE ONLY THING WE SHOULD LEAVE OUT IS LOOKING FOR A "BIG WATER SPOUT" SO HERE WE GO, WE'RE ON OUR WAY THE AWESOME WEEKEND STARTS  
ROOMATE WAMTED: S186.50tnonth ¢ utiiKies. Call 288-6802 for more Informa­tion. WANT PERSON TO ASSIST IN MUSIC PROMOTION. Must have good commu­nication skills. Call Steve 289.0715 TICKETS WANTED  GET MY PRESENTSIIlllllllllll CALL JOHN X2163 NNd Football Tlckata Four GA'a or aa many •• po..lbte for Miami, Penn St., and Air Force Calf 284-5280 or 287-n52 anytime Thank you so much need 6 PURDUE GA's call Fitz 1563  Cell Yin x2052 NEED STANFORD GAs;Have 4 AIR FORCE GAs to sell or trade.Jilfx1260 FOR SALE: 2 PURDUE GA'S--BEST OFFER x4856 SWF SEEKS MUSCULAR ·OOPSI-1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S, 2 AIR­ NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX calf John at x2045• .,................................................................ 4 pc. Premier Drum Kit FOR SALE. Make me an offer. Call Paul x1847 Desperately need round-trip ride for fall break lo anywhere from S Albany to New  JOHN:Get ready for a great weekend! Guess what? I love you! Karen Allenllon all FAC rnemberallll (And we don't mNn the Fr..hman Ad­vfaory Council either... ) The FAC will be celebrating the Mar­gherlta thla evening at  TODAY! GO IRISH! LOVE, THE NURSE DAN, FROM PARFIITS COGNITION CLASS, YOU MAKE MY DAY EVERY TUESDAY AND THURSDAY! ................................................. UP ..... AND OVER-IT'S CINDY CZAR­ 
NEED MIAMI AND AIR FORCE GA'S I HAVE TWO PURDUE GA'S TO TRADE  NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S II 1086  FORCE GA'S AND 1 AIRFORCE STUD (AS IN STUDENT TICKET) CALL  Vorl< City. Will share expenSfls. Please call x3719.  5 PM you know where  NECKI'S BIRTHDAY. HAPPY 20TH--­YO BMBYI CHEZ BRIDGET WILL NOT  
OR $$$CASH$$$ CALL 277-2676  Need 2 GA's 4 Air Force. Offering$$$$ Call Dan 288-8532  CHRISSY X1348 Need one STANFORD stud. ticket Frank  Happy Birthday! Jim Grecco You're looking good.  Sponaored by Karen, Val, Krlaten, and 0..0..  BE KUMAST. LEARN TO DEAL. LATER DAYS, AND LOVE, YOUR BUDDIES.  
APPLE LASER PRINTER For use wllh Macintosh. $$ Call Craig 283·1659 Naed ride to Columbus,OH. for October  ................................................... WILL PAY$ OR TRADE AF STUD FOR PU STUD. CALL STEVE AT 111083 DESPERATELY SEEKING STANFORD GA'$---CALL OP X4050  X4296 NEED 1 GA FOR PURDUE CALL ROB 3241 OR 3244 ................................................................ I NEED TIX TO THE MICHIGAN STATE  love the Quint Michigan Stale Here we come!  INDUSTRY DAY Wednesday September 21 Banquet Registration Forms due Friday September 18 In tha Engineering Student Center Coat $5.00 for Banquet make checks payable to Industry Day  ATTENTION ALL ST. MARY'S FRESH· MAN: VOTE K.S. PRES.-KRISTIN SCHULTZ V.P. -KATY SULLIVAN THE SKY IS THE LIMIT  
break. Am willing to share expenses. Call Tony at 1089.  I need 2 MICH ST.,also 1 MIAMI or PENN,$$$ Call 1934 or 1955  GAMEl CALL MARY AT 2205 ................................................................ I need 1 studant or GA tickel for the  R.A.C., GOOD LUCK at Duke! You'll be greall  INDUSTRY DAY Wednesday September 21 Industry Day Fair 11:00 AM -4:00 PM  ............................................................... TO HEATHER:  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED lo provide  Miami GA goes lo highest bklder x-4802  PURDUE gama. Please call Mike at 1662. Will pay big $$. •  HEY FLANNERI!Il  Fitzpatrick Concourse Bring resumes Parrnanen~ummer Employment Oppor- ONE a LOVE, SHANNON  
FREE PREGNANCY TESTING AND COUNSELING  I need 3 Purdue Tlxl x4802  ................................................................ GERRY FAUST coached ALL FOUR of  IT'S FREE IT'S FUN  tunitles Industry Day Banquet 5:00 PM Mixer ACC Monogram Room  ............................................................... . Everyone watch out for Evelyn  
CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES  my undergrad yra.Have a heart,sell grad  IT'S ... A CHANCE TO DANCE  ................................................................  Dlaz ... She threatened to beat me up If I  
234-3111  NEED 7 MIAMI TICKETS GA CALL  stud. 2 Purdue stud tix or GAs.Jeff 2n­ SAT 9:30-1:30 BRING FRIENDS  DEAR MARTY, Well, H's about timell '  didn't put In a personal for he<.  
SHARON 2845484  8573  Happy 21st, belllsimo. Love, Trlcia  

~-----~--~ 
page 14 
Koreans 
shoot for 
the majors 
Associated Press · 
SEOUL, . South Korea -If young Cho Pang Heang trains hard, keeps his nose clean and avoids sam jin, he could realize every American kid's dream and become a pro yagu sunsu -a major leaguer. 
"Yes," said Cho, an 18-year­old senior at Seoul National High School, the city's largest, "it is my dream, too. 
"First, I aim for the national team and Olympics. Then," he said, wiping the sweat from his chin with a practiced hand, "I wish to attain the highest point as a player." 
It is possible, but not easy, to become a major leaguer in Korea. Even when one begins, as Cho ha,s, with a running start. 
Cho was already a star yu kyouk su -shortstop -at his middle school, and like all 19 of his teammates, was recruited by one of the count­less scouts Coach Lee Tong Soo employs to bring the talent to him. 
Even if he has to dig into his pocket -he makes slightly less than $1,000 a month -to do so. 
There is no object lesson in Korea that parallels exactly the American fascination with opportunity, the notion that Johnny -or in this case Kim' ­through sheer dint of hard work, can grow up to be anyth­ing. 
Koreans, after all, already work six days a week, from the cradle to the grave, and only one expatriate freedom fighter and a trio of ex-generals have gone on to become president. 
Which may explain why the 30-year-old Lee considers tryouts a waste of time, a sin when 42 million people are working overtime to make up decades-old deficits in every­thing from curveballs to com­puters overnight. 
Baseball is a demonstration sport in Seoul, and the South Koreans, like fellow little league power Taiwan and the

-United States, already are con­sidered medal favorites. But they are already plan­ning for the 1992 Games, when real gold will be handed out, and beyond, to the day when the homegrown are better than the few Japanese imported for Korean pro teams and equal with the front-running Americans. Baseball may have started in America, but its neighbors to the East and South -notably Cuba and Nicaragua -are com­ing up quickly and bat is meeting ball even in the Soviet Union. And as it is, Lee has only four hours each day in which to meld a team that will uphold the glorious tradition of Seoul High. 
ENGINEERING JOBS Don't send blind resumes! Use our weekly listing of the best opportunities nation-wide. $14/12 issues. JOBNET. POB 12817, LAKE PARK, FL 33403-0817. SPECIFY YOUR MAJOR: ME, CE, OREE. 

The Olympics 
SwiMMING & 
SWIMMING EVENTS: 50, 100,200,400, 800 (women only), 1500 (men only) -Meter Freestyle; 100, 200-Meter Backstroke; 100, . 200-Meter Breaststroke; I 00, 200-Meter Butterfly; I 00, 200-Meter Individual Medley; 4 x l 00-Meter Freestyle Relay; 4 x 200-Meter Freestyle Relay; 4 Synchronized Swimming (women only); Water P9lo (men only). LOCATION: Chamshil and Olympic Indoor Swimming Pools DATES: Sept. 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,25 
STROKES 
::;,~(:,0  ~~ ~" o<::' ~ c,~ <Q" "o"  
Men Women  182 133  Men Women  

Friday, September 16, 1988 

DIVING EVENTS: Springboard (I and 3 Meters); (5, 7.5 and 10 Meters) TION: Chamshil Indoor Swimming Pool Sept. 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27 Armstand, 
Jll 


10-meter
Both men and women compete in platfor(ft)uble /W and springboard· diving. Five compulsorysomersault ~~~~~-­dives are chosen from six categories (difficulty 2. 1)* Steady 
(forward, backward, reverse, inward, balance must 
twisting, and armstand). There are 82 types of dives, each ranging in degree of difficulty from 1.3, the lowest, to 3.5, the highest. Seven judges score dives between 0 and 10. The highest and lowest score are discarded while the remaining scores are multiplied by the dive's degree of difficulty. 
W 
• be shown in armstand. 

7.5-meter
e 
Jll 
/­
Entry must be perfectly vertical with pointed toes and legs together to create very little splash. 

EVENTS: Solo, Duet and 8-Member Team.....,.,~-....), LOCATION: Olympic Indoor Swimming Pool DATES: Sept. 26, 27, 28, 30 & Oct. I 
Swimmers compete in compulsory figures (55% of score) and in routines done to music for up to 3-1/2 to 4 minutes (45% of score). 
AP/Nancy Carpenter 
U.S. Olympians gre~ted by crowds in Seoul 
Associated Press Carl Lewis went into hiding photographers and tele•rision after ,a cocky vow of victory. crews at the airport.
SEOUL, South Korea "I've never had a receptionMobbed like a movie queen and Grand Slam tennis champion like this anywhere before," smiling for the cameras, Steffi Graf, not quite used to Graf said breathlessly. "I'm Florence Griffith Joyner led the her sudden celebrity, recoiled very excited but it's a little cast of U.S. track and field in fear and shed a few tears frightening. I hope it's not stars to the Olympics on when engulfed by a sea of going to be like this all the Thursday, while leading man shoving, stumbling reporters, time." 
It won't be for everyone, but the superstars at the Games might as well get used to the crush. 
Hurdler Edwin Moses,· too fast to let age catch up with him, flew in from Japan with Griffith Joyner, more than 90 teammates and U.S. wrestlers, kayakers and synchronized swimmers. 
World-record triple jumper Willie Banks, sprinter Calvin Smith and miler Steve Scott, named captains of the men's track team earlier in the day, also arrived, along with the wo­men's captains, sprinter Evelyn Ashford and high jumper Louise Ritter. 
None of them, however, had the glamour of Griffith Joyner, 
AP Photo 
in her unique brand of high fas­Hodorl, the Summer Olympic Games mascot, entertains young hion as always. None drew as Koreans In ·Seoul. Hodori and the Olympic athletes will be in the much attention as the lady who spotlight beginning tonight at the Opening Ceremonies of the XXIV is favored to win at 100 and 200 Olympiad. meters. On the arm of her bus-

band, Al Joyner, she breezed to the bus silently. 
Lewis made his grand en­trance a day earlier, garbed in a white silk suit and boldly vowing to reclaim the title of fastest man alive. Lewis is seeking to match the four golds he won in 1984 in the 100, 200, 400 relay and long jump. 

"The gold medal for the 100­meter race is mine," Lewis declared, dismissing rival Ben Johnson of Canada, who holds the world record at 9.83 seconds and has beaten Lewis in six of their last eight races outdoors. "I will never again lose to Johnson." 
Lewis said he wouldn't allow 
further interviews before his 
events and huffed that he would 

go home if reporters bothered 
him. Unlike most of the other 
12,000 athletes and officials 
already in Seoul, Lewis has two 
houses he can stay in outside 
the Olympic Village. 

He also is the only athlete 
with his own glossy guide lis­
ting his achievements. 

Political issues still were 
nudging sports for top billing 
with the start of the Games two 
days away. 


..-------------~---------~ ----~-----------~----------~-­
Friday, September 16, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Norway wins '94 vote • 

AP Photo 
Japanese Olympic diver Ma..ko Asada practices 'diving competitions In Seoul are highlighted this for the platform competition. The swimming and weekend. 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea -The Norwegian ski resort of Lil­lehammer scored a stunning upset of sports and tradition over money and politics Thursday when it won the right to stage the 1994 Winter Olym­pies. 
Anchorage, Alaska, finished third in the balloting, behind Ostersund, Sweden. Sofia, Bul­garia, the favorite at the start of the week, was the first city eliminated and said it was up­set at not getting more support ­from its East-bloc allies. 
A town of just 21,000 people about 110 miles north of Oslo, Lillehammer used a history of winter sports excellence, a solid collection of existing facilities and an impressive performance by Prime Mini­ster Gro Harlem Brundtland in its final presentation to per­suade the International Olym­pic Committee it was the best choice. 
The city also focused on having its venues concentrated in a small area and on its proven organizing experience. Lillehammer bidders, success­ful in their second try for the Winter Games, said that may have been the turning point. 
"When they put the athletes in focus, that was the key mo­ment for us," said Sigmund Thue, general manager of the Lillehammer Olympic Associ­ation. 
McEireavy has high hopes for --Columbia (?) 
Associated Press 
Bear Bryant used to lament that Alabama would have trou­ble making a first down against the Little Sisters of the Poor. 
The Bear was famous for his crying towel as well as his houndstooth hat. 
Legions of coaches have poor-mouthed like the Bear but without coming close to his 323 victories and five national championships. 
Keeping that in mind, guess which coach made the follow-
Olympic 
continued from page 20 
"It is definitely an uphill bat­tle for a medal performance," stated DeCicco. "In the past fifty years or so, the United States has won only two medals 
A 81:AfiiiNG COMI:OY ,,.OM THE MAKI:..S OP' 

"MY III:AUT.,UL LAUNO~nTI:." 
•-c-•-•.. , .. _ •. ..._
... .._.......... Cinm!rr Tonight at the Snite 
7:30 9:30 

ing positive comments this 
week: 

"We have athletes who can 
run. Our offense looks as if it's · going to be very explosive. I think we're going to have the capability of scoring from any 
place on the field. 
"Whether a team is punting 
to us or kicking off to us, we'll 
have the capability of breaking 
it any time we touch it.'' 
The speaker? · none other 
than Larry McElreavy, whose 
Columbia University Lions will 
take a 41-game losing streak, 
in the fencing competitions." 
As a member of the United States Olympic Committee, DeCicco has good reason to base his claims, for he has seen the wealth of talent emerging from Europe. 
"The top teams will be from the Soviet Union, Italy, France, un NCAA division I record for futility, into Saturday's game at Harvard. 
"They're not going up to Har­vard to compete, they're going up to win, and they're talking about winning big," said McEl­reavy, who is 0-20 at Columbia, which hasn't won a game since 1983. "There's something to be said for confidence, and God love 'em for that." 
Columbia may not beat Har­vard <the Lions are 22-point un­derdogs) out McElreavy fully 
..-----------------------­
The Little Engine that could is 22 sat! Stop by 218 Alumni and wish 
Michael 
a 

Happy 
%f.ze;~ 

, NO Communication and Theatre Film Serlesat the Snlte Museum 
I SAMMY AND ROSIE GET LAID (1987) Tonight 7:30, 9:30 Directed by Stephen Frears Sammy and Rosie mixes black humor. sensuality, spontaneity, and wit In this film set In London. 
I CONFESS (1953) Monday 7:00 Alfred Hitchcock directs this thriller about a priest accused of a crime which the actual murderer has confessed to the priest St!'rrlng Mont go me ry Clift and Karl Malden. 
THE LmLE FOXES (1941) William Wyler directs this adaptlon of Lillian Hellman's play about the passing of an era when 19th century aristocrats and robber barons were faced with the perplexities of the 20th century. Starring Bette Davis. 
PHILADELPHIA STORY (1940) Tuesday 7:00 Katherine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and Jimmy Stewart star In this screwball classic about a spoiled heiress who learns a lesson In order to charming. 
BACK STREET (1932) Tuesday 9:00 John Stahl's adaptlon of Fannia Hurst's novel about a woman' love for a man. CALL THE FILM HOTLINE 239-7361 AOWQRKS 

expects to win some games this year. 
"It's the first football team since I've been at Columbia that feels that they can go out on the field and actually line up with somebody and play," he said. "That's a good feeling." 
Vanderbilt hasn't been known for stopping people in recent years so Coach Watson Brown sent his staff to Mic­higan State last spring to learn Coach George Perles' stunt 4-3 defense. 
Perles was the architect of 
Donna--Bev, Vi and Donna
Birthday! 
Marie. 
THE FLETCHER SCHOOL OF 
LAW AND DIPLOMACY 
TUFTS UNIVERSITY 
The Fletcher School is the senior graduate, professional school of international affairs in the United States. 
Come learn about our two-year professional Master's program in International relations and the career opportunities available to our 
graduates. 
MEET Associate Dean Gerard F~ Sheehan on Monday, September 19 at 10:30 am to 11:30 am, 1:30 pm to 2:.30 pm, and 2:.30 pm to .3:30 
pm. 
Contact Career and Placement Services for more Information. 
the "steel curtain" defense 
that helped the Pittsburgh 
Steelers win four Super Bowls 
in the 1970s. 
"We totally took their pack­
age," Brown says. 
On Saturday, Vanderbilt 
plays Rutgers, which upset 
Michigan State last week. 
GRIFFIN 
continued from page 12 
the nights I stood outside the chapel, envying the celebrant. I hope PW will remember I consider myself the chaplain in absentia, not further than a phone call or short walk away. I am not leaving PW without many a sad look be­hind. 
I am grateful to the women of PW for their kindness, pa­tience and tolerance toward Darby and me. I want to 
thank the rector, Sister Jo, for
being good to me and never complaining, even when I played the stereo loud at 3 
a.m. in the room below hers. With Sister Jo in PW as a campus minister, I feel safe in saying that I'm not leaving the PW women as orphans. 
Finally, I want to express my deep affection for Donna, the housekeeper who watched 
....
lovingly over my animal and me, and the rooms we lived in, for so many years, and I want to say how happy I am to be friends with the lovely women who worked with West Germany, Poland, and Hungary," stated DeCicco. 
"They will probably account for ninety percent of the medals in the fencing competi­tions." 
The· intensity level is definitely turned up a notch for the 1988 Summer Games. The Europeans will enter as the overwhelming favorites. 
But while the chances are slim for any medals by the Irish contingency, there is al­ways a chance of some rever­berating upsets, which certain Notre Dame sports teams have been known to accomplish from time to time. 
~------------------------~ 
" 
---~-­

page 16 The Observer Friday, September 16, 1988 
• Men's tennis team faces tough tourney schedule 
By CHRIS COONEY a day, five days a week, includ­the tennis team will travel to of the kind of competition we this fall, but he hopes the level 
Sports Writer ing two to three weightlifting Ball State Oct. 7-8 where they faced compared to last fall," of competition will prepare the
sessions each week. will battle the Big Ten. Then, the second-year coach says. team for the spring, when theyThe Notre Dame men's ten­The seedings have yet to be on Oct. 15, the top eight players The team has definitely im­face last year's No. 3 team,nis team will face challenging made, but Bayliss says team will attend the Volvo All­proved since last season, al­
Michigan, and other top 20
opposition this fall, participat­captain Brian Kalbas, fresh­American, the largest col­though Dohlare has just schools.ing in at least five national­man standout Dave DiLucia legiate tennis meet in the na­returned from an injury and level meets as it prepares for and transfer student Walter tion. DiLucia took a week off after "We may not be able to beat an improved regular season Dohlare should vie for the top The Irish host the 12-team the U.S. Open to catch up on 
all of them," says Bayliss, "butschedule next spring. spots. According to Bayliss, Tom Fallon Invitational Oct. school work. Bayliss says he we can definitely compete with
The Irish will travel to the DiLucia, who recently com­28-30 and, on Nov. 18-21, they cannot predict how they will do them."Naval Academy National Con­peted at the U.S. Open, has a will go to the Rolex Regionalference Tournament Sept. 23-25 ranking of 49 in the preseason Qualifier in Bloomington, In. at which they will play eight poll of the best college players. where they will play Big Ten 
SUN FACTORY teams, including four of last In addition, Dolhare practiced and Middle American Confer­
TANNING SALON

year's top 25 teams. The top with the Argentinian Davis Cup ence teams to determine who eight Notre Dame players will team this summer. will represent the region at the 
attend, playing both singles "He has the potential to be National Indoor Champion­and doubles in separate tour­an All-American," says ships. naments. Bayliss of junior newcomer Bayliss calls the schedule 
Coach Bob Bayliss has had Dolhare. "ambitious." the team practicing 2 V2 hours After the Navy tournament, "It's a big step up in terms 
IH 
Alumni to get more work in ing stick foi the rest of the 
with its freshman. season. "It's taken some time for "We were hit pretty hard by
continued from page 20 

them to learn the plays, but graduation so we won't have 4 Beds with Facial Tanners as our overall defense," stated everthing's beginning to come much depth," said captain Ed captain Greg Golonka. together, said captain Mike Cosgrove. "Bill Fazzlaro, Pete 
A team effort is a key to win-Brcik. Luscy, and Rob Thompson will ning for Off-Campus. "Quar-Returning upperclassmen is anchor the offensive line." Student Discounts! terback Brendon Max and run-Zahm's greatest attribute. Injuries in the backfield ning back John Diebel key the "Mike Davis and John could cause Sorin some trouble offense," said captain Pete Zabierek will go wild on according to captain Dave Car­
Mon.-Thurs. 7am-9pm
Walsh. defense, but our offense could dinale. 
Fri. 7am-8pm
The kicking game will be an use some improvement," com-The games get underway 
Sat. 7am-5pm
advantage as Tim Healy has mented captain Mike Gaetti. Sunday beginning at 1 p.m. at kicked forty-five yard field Pangborn will use its first the Stepan fields and 7 p.m. at Sun. 1Oam-3pm goals in practice. game of the year as a measur-Cartier. 

In the Leahy League, Stan-111••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
ford has its entire offensive line i i • returning, which should boost i i ! T.J. Gavenda ! its chances of repeating as divi-i i
Ht:lppy

sion champs. i U i ! Hope this year ! 
Cavanaugh hopes to gain i i
hd ! is as stimulating !
some respect by winning its i i 
first game since 1986, when -R 1·rt ay i ! as you found !
~e~T~e ~~ kicked a field goal I U i
3 !• this last one. !•
"I can guarantee that we'll ! ~ 
score and we may even win a ! J 1· D 11 -! Happy : 
game or two," said Cavanaugh ! U 1e U ! 
captain Ken Cotter. "We have ! ! : 20th ! an extremely young team, but ! ! there's a lot of enthusiasm. We I ! should be able to compete with i Love, ! :• Birthday! !• 
every team." 1 I •• • A bye Sunday will allow i Mom (9 Matthew i : Love, : 
i i : "Older merely in years" : ij...................................................i •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH HIRING 75 TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
,... 
*Days 9am-5pm Offered August 20 -November 7 *Evening 5pm-1 Opm Year-round IOpm-lam Offered August 20-November 7 *Weekends Morning, Afternoon, Evening-Year-round $4.00-$12.00 I hour 
121 S. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd Fl. 219-282-2754 



UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
"THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST" 
***OPEN SATURDAY NOON (DELIVERY AVAILABLE DURING MICHIGAN ST. GAME) ***OPEN UNTIL 3AM FRIDAY/SATURDAY CATERING FOR TAILGATERS & SYRs OWNER--MATT HICHBARGER ND'89 
----------------------~--------------------~---------------------­
1 50 CENTS OFF I $1.00 OFF I $2.00 OFF I 
I I I I
I ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA 1 ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA I I (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) 1 (LARGER THAN TWO 16" ROUND PIZZAS) I
I I I IFREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY 
1

I 211-8889 I 211-8889 211-8889 I 
I1

I I · I 
NIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1o-23e8 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1<>25138 UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1<>25138 I 8055 ST. RD. 23 I 18055 ST. RD. 23 18055 ST. RD. 23 I 
---------------------~--------------------~---------------------­
_j 
Friday, September 16, 1988 The Observer page 17 
Baseball roundup 
Pags hits Yanks over Boston 
Associated Press homer Thursday, leading the with lead of 11 1-2 games over Mets past the Chicago Cubs 4-1 second-place Minnesota, which 
BOSTON -Mike Pagliarulo for their seventh victory in played Chicago at night. homered, doubled and hit an eight games. RBI single as the New York The Mets, who lead the Na­Reds 7 Astros 5 Yankees beat Roger Clemens tional League East by 10 1-2 and the Red Sox 5-3 Thursday games, lowered their magic CINCINNATI -Eric Davis night, cutting Boston's lead to number to eight, pending and Barry Larkin drove in two 3 L-2 games in the American Thursday night's game be­runs apiece to lead the Cincin­League East. tween Pittsburgh and nati Reds to a 7-5 victory over 
Clemens, 6-3 lifetime against Montreal. New York has won the Houston Astros Thursday the Yankees but 1-2 this season, 17 of its last 22. night. lost for the sixth time in his last Cone, 17-3, struck out 10 in The Astros rallied from a 6-2 seven decisions, dropping his seven innings for his sixth deficit on sixth-inning homers record to 16-11. The two-time double-digit strikeout game by Billy Hatcher and reliever Cy Young Award winner, who this season. Danny Darwin off starter pitched a one-hitter against Rick Sutcliffe, 12-13, pitched Norm Charlton, but were shut Cleveland last Saturday, al­a six-hitter, striking out five down by the Reds' bullpen over lowed nine hits and walked four and walking three in his 11th the last three innings. in 6 1-3 innings despite striking complete game. The loss dropped the second­out eight, raising his major place Astros to seven games League-leading total to 277. Athletics 6, Rangers 2 behind Los Angeles in the Na­
Rick Rhoden, 11-10, won his tional League West. fourth consecutive start and OAKLAND, Calif. -Dave led the Yankees to their Parker drove in three runs with Cardinals 3, Phillies 1 seventh victory in eight games. a pair of singles as the Oakland 
Athletics beat the Texas Rang­Mets 4, Cubs 1 ers 6-2 Thursday, moving an­PHILADELPHIA -Scott other step closer to the Amer­Terry won his seventh straight 
NEW YORK -David Cone ican League West title. decision and the St. Louis Car­won for the eighth time in nine The A's magic number for dinals beat the Philadelphia decisions and Kevin clinching the division race was Phillies 3-1-Thursday, snapping McReynolds hit a two-run cut to five. They began the day a three-game losing streak. 

1141 
OFFICE OF 
(tJv1PUStv11NISTRY 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop Sunday, Sept. 18 at 2:30pm Tuesday, Sept. 20 at 1Opm SACRED HEART CHURCH 
ARTHUR 
A:tVDERSEN &ID 
We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Dame seniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you to attend a reception to find out about 
. . . 

career opportunities In our Management Information Consulting Division. 
September27, 1988 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Morris Inn -Notre Dame Room 
Sports Briefs 
WVFI-AM 640 will broadcast Saturday's Notre Dame-Michigan State game live from East Lansing. Jamey Rappis and Greg Guffey will handle the play-by­play and analysis. Coverage begins at 10:30 a.m. -The Observer 
The ND crew team will hold no novice practice this weekend. There will, however, be a barbecue on Sun­day from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. All rowers and prospective rowers are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Stepan1Courts will be reserved from 4: 15 to .6: 15 
p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons run­ning through Wednesday, Sept. 28. The 5-10 and Under Basketball tourney will be held during these times and have priorities on the courts. -The Observer 
Jazzercise has come to Notre Dame. Non-Varsity Athletics is offering a 5:10 p.m. class on Mondays and Wednesdays at Rockne Memorial. Register at the NVA office, and call239-6100 for more information. -The Obser­ver \ 
NVA is looking for referees. If you can officiate flag football, grad fotball or soccer, contact NVA at 239­6100. -The Observer 
The racquetball club is operating a league for all interested players. Please call Mark at x1412 or Dave at x1572 by Friday. -The Observer 
The ND basketball teams will be holding their annual softball games on Sunday at 1:30 p.m. The doubleheader (including both the men's and women's pro­grams) will be played at Moreau Field. -The Observer 
. 

The ND-SMC Gymnastics Club wants those interested in joining the club to pick up insurance forms as soon as possible from Terence Kell~ng (Dillon 382, x1866) 
or Janene Niedzwiecki (328 Holy Cross, 284-4387). Practice 
will begin on Sept. 19 at 4 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
-The Observer 
Irish Outdoors is sponsoring a canoe trip to the Pine River in Michigan. The group will depart Friday afternoon and will return the following day. Deadline for registration is Wednesday, Sept. 14. For questions or registration, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will begin lessons this week. Lessons will be offered Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednes­days this fall at 3:30p.m. at the boathouse. Dues must be paid at or before your first lesson. For more information, call Mike Norman at x3520. -The Observer 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 


-----~------~---~------------­
page 18 The Observer Friday, September 16, 1988 
Irish women's soccer team faces W. Michigan 

By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
soccer team, which started the 
1988 season strongly by win­
ning its first two games impres­
sively, dropped two games 
over the weekend, evening out 
its record to 2-2. The losses did, 
however, provide an opportu­
nity for the team and its 
coaches to focus on several fun­
damental aspects of its game. 
"We weren't particularly sharp as a team in Friday's game (a 2-0 loss to Indiana)," said Irish assistant coach Neil Schmidt, who accompanied the women on the two road trips, because of conflicts in Head Co­ach Dennis Grace's schedule. "Right now we need to work on defensive responsibilities, as well as offensive finishing. We're getting to the goal, we're just not sticking it in the net." 
Schmidt did emphasize that 
the team played much better 
on Sunday, in a 1-0 loss to Lake 
Forest, saying that "we were 
a completely different team." 
The statistics show that 
Schmidt's assessment of the of­
fense as "knocking at the door, 
but not being able to find the 
net" is accurate. According to 
Schmidt the Irish completely 
dominated the game, outshoot-
Dent suspension lifted 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST. Ill. -The NFL on Thursday lifted the 30­day suspension imposed on Richard Dent for refusing to take a drug test, and the Chicago Bears' defensive end says he'll be glad to put the matter behind him. 
"I'm just glad everything is over, that everything is said and done," said Dent, who ap­peared with his agent, Steve Zucker, at a news conference at training camp. 
"I just want to get back to work in a proper way. Life is full of chances. Nothing is promised to you. Sometimes you have to do more to get things done," he said. 
"I think the commissioner has a good, fair drug policy and I support him on that," Zucker said. 

COUNTRY HARVESTER 

............distributer for Mountain Man Nut & Fruit Co. 

~ Reopening special 
stoneware simmering potpourri scenter $4/second one half price! four different designs We carry simmering potpourri and replacement candles We are conveniently located in the basement of LaFortune Hours: Monday -Friday 11:30 -6:30 
Saturday before home games Phone: 239 -6714 
ADWORKS 
ing Lake Forest 22-6, and tally­ing 14 corner kicks to none for the Foresters. Despite their persistence in creating oppor­tunities, Notre Dame was shut out in both games, prompting Schmidt to emphasize the im­portance of fundamental skills. "As a young team in its first season," Schmidt said, "we are more concerned with the basics of good soccer than with put­ting in a lot of different types of plays." 
The team was not dis­couraged by the outcome of the recent games. Instead they are looking ahead positively to their next match, against West­ern Michigan on Sunday at 11 
a.m. at Krause Stadium. 
"We've had a week to rest and to practice, to get our­selves back together after the long weekend," said freshman striker Susie Zilvitis. 
Schmidt credits the women with intense determination and an enthusiastic spirit, an im­portant factor in the success of any team. 
"They're working even harder after the losses," he said. 
Senior Debbie Ho echoed his sentiments: "We've been 

Atlantic Ocean Living Child Care or Elderly Non-Infirmary Care 
Full time Live-in position available in Boston Call or write: -Helping Hand 25 West St. P.O. Box 17 Beverly Falls, Ma 01919 1-800-356-3422 
working really hard this week, mostly on our offense. We're still trying to become familiar 
with each other and see how we fit together as a team." 
Irish head coach Dennis Grace, who divides his time be­tween the men's and women's soccer teams, stressed the statistical aspects of last Sun­day's game, and looked confi­dently ahead to Western Michigan. 
"We had a good week of prac­tice. We're going to play hard and do everything we can to achieve a victory. It's all there. we just have to put it together." 
Both Grace and Schmidt seem to want to focus on prog­ress and development, rather than individual outcome. They have adopted a patient atti­tude, recognizing that it will take time and experience to coordinate and organize the talent and capability of the team into a comfortable, effec­tive unit. 
"The spirit of the girls is good," said Schmidt. "They're always fired up arid ready to go. We'll give the teams down the road a very, very tough time." 

;............................................................. 
---J» _....,.. ~ _.........-.. 
-lrii!'P",.
...., : • ~ --~ iii =:. --~ s·;ra 
f ne Observer 1 Rob Regovicn 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team Is looking to get back on the winning track against Western Michigan Sunday at Moose Krause Stadium. Coach Dennis Grace's young team has lost two straight. 

Notre DaDle Avenue Apartments 
NOWIIENTINGFORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, 
· all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th and get ONE MONTH RENTFREE 
Office at 120 ND Ave 2341647 
CaUAaytime 
Friday, September 16, 1988 
The Observer page 19 
.. 
~AM PUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
FRIDAY 
All Day Registration for the Industry Day Fair which will be Wednesday, Sept. 21st, in the Fitzpatrick Con­course (1st floor). Registration will be ln 217 Cushing Hall. Sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council and Society of Women Engineers. 
7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross House. 
11 :30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Lunch at the Center for Social Concerns. Fee charged. 
Noon Fireside Chat Josie Raven Wing giving lecture 
"Native American Dance" in ISO Lounge, LaFortune 
Student Center. 
2:00 p.m. Notre Dame women's tennis vs. Bowling at Courtney Courts. 
4:00p.m. Year of Cultural Diversity Mexican Indepen­
dence Day Ballet at Fieldhouse Mall. 
4:30 p.m. POWMIA Awareness Week flag retreat cer­emony led by Father Donald Neely at the South Quad flag pole. 
SATURDAY 
8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Medical College Admission Test at Engineering Auditorium. 
.DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Egg Drop Soup Philadelphia Steak Sand­
Make Your Own Burrito Bar wich Chicken Nuggets Chicken Enchiladas AuGratin Potatoes Vegetarian Moussaka 
Deli Bar 

COMICS 
Bloom County 

ACROSS 29 Westminster · 57 Thai money 
Palace's clock 58 Jefferson's 1 Memorable 32 Seine pont home"lionized" 33 Skin ailment 61 Type of type:actor 35 Vintage car Abbr.
5 Lanchester of ~6 Pouch or 62 A.k.a. 

films Indian tribe ·63 Poetic 9Being: Lat.' 

37 Properties contraction13 Mars: Comb. 
39 Tell's Swiss 64 Cupola form canton 65 Barber's call14 Darts 40 Class 66 Biblical 15 West Pt., e.g. 
41 Corn variety passage16 Site of Louis 42 Cuckoos XIV's palace 
43 Photographic 
DOWN
18 Mugger 

developer
19Cast-1 Mauna Loa 
45 Solicitor 
(bewitch) output
48 N.B.A.'s 
20 Leafstalk Archibald 2 Greek Mars 22 Sea squirt 49 Highway 3 Study of 25 Horace or 50 Entrance reptiles: Abbr. 
Thomas 53 Japanese-4 "... raptures 26 Of trees Americans and-vice": Swinburne 5 Building wing 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6Diamond­7 Pace 8 Congregate 9 Cafe activity 
10 Famed castle at Vienna 11 Novelist 
Bellow 12 Border 14 French girl 17 Winged 21 Follows 23 Meals, in 
Milano 24 Isabella's home in Seville 26 Anxiety, in Avila 27 Domain 
Berke Breathed 




28 Royal 

38 Vendor 50 In the sameresidence in 42 "All good gifts place: Lat.
London ... -from 51 Alliance 

30 Phantasmal Heaven": J.M. acronym
31 Blatant Campbell 52 Part of the foot34"... he-44 Shoot forth 54Robt.­
live": 

' repeatedly 55 Holly Diogenes 46 Mediterranean 58 Cull 
Laertius seaport 59 Nope 37 Overact 47 Auricular 80 Make lace 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

......-----------~ ~-----­
r 
Sports 
Friday, September 16, 1988
page 20 

lnterhall season starts 
with key games Sunday 
Dillon begins title defense-vs. O.C. 
By DAVE MCMAHON Sports Writer 
Defending Interhall football champion Dillon will begin its quest of the 1988 title Sunday when it faces Off-Campus. J 
With the bulk of the team back and a desire to get the season underway, defending Parseghian League champion Dillon is ready to defens the title. ~ 

... 
"This is the biggest team we've had in the four years that I've been here," said Dillon captain Paul Drey. "Our guys are hungry and have a pretty good attitude. We're ready to play." Because of the intense hitting that has been prevalent in its practices, Flanner chose not to schedule any scrimmages in the preseason. Dave Cane anchors the offense at wide receiver, while Brian Friessen will go both ways, playing of­
fensive tackle and middle linebacker. 
"We have a young quarter­back and an injured fullback in Daye Janyja, so we'll be looking for the defense to cause some turnovers to get us in scoring position," said Flanner captain Dave Kelly. 
Grace Hall will be sporting a strong freshman class, accor­ding to captain Robert Sedlack. 
"We have a few big freshman on the offensive line," Sedlack said. Defense will also be a key for Grace. Rick Granger, Tom Doyle, and Pat Cook, who, ac­cording to Sedlack, "will be able to devote full time to Grace football," will lead the defense. 
With over half the team re­turning, experience will be a plus for Morrissey. 
"Our running game has im­proved from last year, as well 
see IH, page 16 


Breen-Phillips, Farley favored again 
By ARTHUR GOLLWITZER Sports Writer. 

• 
Sunday night at Cartier Field marks the beginning of the 1988 women's Interhall football season. Breen-Phillips will try to defend its crown at 9 p.m. after runner-up Farley plays Siegfreid. 
This season contains several changes from the past. With the addition of Knott and Siegfreid, teams will no longer play every dorm. The schedule calls for games against eight of the ten possible opponents. Some games will now be played on Wednesday night. Depending on the varsity football team's practice schedule, there is also a chance that some late season Interhall games will be played indoors at Loftus Sports Center in order to avoid the cold. 
Will there be a repeat of last year's 24-18 win by BP over Farley in the championship? Captain Karen Marsh of Breen­Phillips is cautious. She says they have a very young team with only three seniors return­ing, but they are looking for­ward to a successful season. 
Karen Lynch of Farley is a little more optimistic. 
"We lost a few key players, but we are building strong and working hard," Lynch said. 
Chris Finn, Siegfreid's cap­tain, is looking forward to es­tablishing a winning tradition in the new dorm. The team has a lot of freshmen, but the coaches have been quietly im­pressed by their athletic ability and teamwork. 
Finally, Coach Brian Miller is looking ahead to another season leading Badin Hall. This year Badin's participation is way up and the future looks en­couraging for the perennial In­terhall underdog. 

1988 graduate Molly Sullivan Is one of five Notre Dame alumni participating with the United States 
Five represent ND at Olympics 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
will be assistant coach Mike
Sports Writer 
Marx. However, as one of the premier foilists in the UnitedWhen the Games of the XXIV States, Marx will leave hisOlympiad open in Seoul, South coaching duties at home as heKorea this weekend, the Fight­will participate against theing Irish of Notre Dame will be world's best for Olympic gold. 
well represented on the United The two final representatives States squad. 
for Notre Dame will be alumni Three Notre Dame alumni Mike Gostigian ('86) and Boband two coaches will partici­Niemann ('78). Both will bepate in one way· or another for participating in the modernthe U.S. team in the 1988 Sum­pentathalon, an event consist­mer Games. 
ing of five separate
The most prominent of these Irish athletes will be 1988 competitions in fencing, swim­graduate Molly Sullivan. The ming, running, shooting, and four-time monogram winner horseback riding. The veteran and former NCAA foil cham­Niemann boasts a gold medal pion from North Andover, MA., at the 1978 World Champion­will compete in the foil event ships in Hungary. In an eval­in the fourth or fifth spot. uation of the team~s prospects, 
Sullivan's coach for the Irish Irish head fencing coach Mi­women's team, Yves Auriol, chael DeCicco spoke quite will help out as one of three realistically. coaches for the Olympians in Another Irish coach present 
see OLYMPIC, page 15

the fencing competition. Two in Seoul for the Summer Games 

Hate Miami later,~ hate Rutgers now 
Avoid the rush. Hate Rutgers early. 
Don't feel compelled to call Rutgers head co­ach Dick Anderson and tell him how much you hate his Scarlet Knights. Save those calls for Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson. 
But Notre Dame fans have every right to hate Rutgers for its 17-13 upset of Michigan State last Saturday in East Lansing, Mich. 
Try to count the times you've heard something like this since Notre Dame's 19-17 victory over Michigan: 
"If Rutgers beat Michigan State, there's no way we can lose." 
But the Knights' victory over the Spartans does not mean Michigan State is a bad team. It means Michigan State is a mad team. And the Spartans would love nothing better than to take out their frustrations on the Irish in Spartan Stadium on Saturday. 
Don't fool yourself. Michigan State can win this ballgame. 
The Las Vegas odds made Notre Dame a one­point favorite early this week. But now they've­dropped to "pick'em." The odds are even. It's a toss up in the eyes (and wallets) of the bettors. 
For all those who insist on believing Notre Dame is going to walk into East Lansing and walk out with an easy victory, you might want to take note of just how the Knights beat the 
Spartans. 

They passed the ball, plain and simple. 
They scored both touchdowns and all17 of their points in the second quarter. One touchdown came on a 61-yard pass and the other on a pass that was tipped by a Michigan State defender and could have been intercepted. 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 

The Spartans roared back from the 17-0 deficit to make the score 17-13. They were on their way to scoring the go-ahead touchdown in the fourth quarter when tailback Blake Ezor, the same Blake Ezor who stepped into the end zone on the opening kickoff to give Notre Dame a safety last year, fumbled the ball deep in Scarlet Knight territory. 
Ezor gained 196 yards on 33 carries in the game. . . 
More importantly, the MIChigan State defense held Rutgers to 2.9 yards per carry. In 1987 the Spartans ranked No. 1 in the nation in rushing defense by keeping the opposition to 2.1 yards per rush, and eight starters from that defensive unit return in 1988. 
Rutgers won by throwing the ball. The Knights were 25-of-36 passing for 239 yards and two touch­downs via the air. 
In case you forgot, Irish quarterback Tony Rice was 3-of-12 for 40 yards. That just won't cut it against the Spartans. 
"I told Tony Rice that we can't play against the people we're playing if we can't throw the ball consistently," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. "He did not throw the ball like I ex­pected him to throw it, and you're not going to run the ball against Michigan State." 
But there's no need to panic. Rice can throw the ball, and he can throw it well. He's thrown well in practice all fall. 
What Irish fans might want to worry about more than Rice's arm is the anger with which Michigan State will take the field. The Spartans have two losses to avenge--the Rutgers debacle and the 31-8 beating they took at the hands of the Irish and Tim Brown last year. 
"This will be another tough, physical football game," Holtz said. "I'm just afraid we're going to run into a team that's in a rather angry mood." 
Don't you just hate Rutgers? 



