
Flakey
/ACCENT: 'Amadeus' previewed Partly sunny today with a chance of flurries, continued cold with a high near 25.
IVIEWPOINT: Famine and politics 


By NATASHA WILSON 
Staff Reporter 
Many minorities said Tues­day they approve of the Uni­versity's plan to increase minority enrollment in the next four years through the forma­tion of a $12 million endowment fund for minority financial aid. 
"I have to applaud Father Malloy for his obvious commit­ment to the issue of minority concerns," said black senior Lisa Boykin. 
''Administration, faculty and the students as well have to put a serious effort behind this for it to be successful," added Boykin. 
The plan will increase the number of minority freshman from the present 11 percent to 15 percent by 1992, announced University President Father Edward Malloy Monday. Minority graduate enrollment, presently at five percent, will double. 
By SUSAN MARHEFKA 
News Staff 
Tickets for the upcoming "Stamp Issuing Event" will be available to Notre Dame stu­dents within a week, according to Student Body President Pat Cooke at Tuesday's Hall Pres­ident's Council meeting. 
The event is being held on March 9 to commemorate the issuance of the Knute Rockne stamp. President Ronald Reagan will be the guest speaker at the ceremony, which will be held in the Joyce ACC at 12:30 p.m. 
The event is open to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities. 
Tickets will be free but re­quired for entrance. They will be distributed at the JACC ticket office in a similar man­ner to the distribution of Keenan Review tickets. 
Tickets available soon 
The winds of change 
Junior aerospace engineering majors Mike Vanthour­Engineering. Wind tunnel testing is a vital part of

for Rockne stamp event 
nout, Karen Comly and Maggie Hassan conduct an aerospace design and research. 
Cooke said student govern­experiment with the wind tunnel in Fitzpatrick Hall of ment wants to make the event accessible to students to en­courage them to attend the cer­
OBUD announces election rules, 
emony. "It is for the students," he said. 


dates to class office candidates 
This was the first time the administration responded to recommendations made by its Committee on Minority Stu­dents. 
"Things are moving in the right direction and we're cautiously optimistic (about the plan)," said committee member Ken Durgans. 
"For once I feel that more than lip service is going to be done," said Durgans, who is also director of minority af­fairs. 
"It's important that they're setting timetables. Six percent black (undergraduate) enroll­ment is a reasonable goal for now," contends Boykin. 
She added, however, that in the next several years the goal should be increased to nine to ten percent for blacks and even higher for total minority enroll­ment. 
She said she hopes the 
see PLAN, page 4 

dent, vice president, secretary, 
and treasurer. Candidates 
which had previously sub­
mittted a partial ticket were re­
quired to declare a complete 
ticket last night. ----------­

----------­
Candidates-are required to solicit a minimum of 100 signa­tures by noon Friday, Feb. 26 in order to be placed on the bal­lot, said Grace. 
The signatures must be from students of the candidates' own class and written on offical pe­tition forms. 
Candidates are encouraged to solicit more than the re­quired number of signatures because cases have arisen where students signed bogus names to petitions. All signa­tures will be checked by elec­tion officials for validity, added Grace. 
Those candidates who com­plete the petitions and are academically eligible for elec­tion will have their names 
see RULES, page 3 
Kathy Goggin, representa­tive of Head Start, also spoke to the HPC about upcoming in­formation carnivals sponsored by South Bend service organi­zations. The expos, which will be held March 24 and April14, are designed to aid those in need and to show them that there are opportunities avail­able to them. 
Goggin stressed the need for child care workers to stay with children of parents who wish to attend the carnivals. Time shifts from 9 a.m. to noon are available. Those interested are asked to contact Goggin at 283­3607. 
see HPC, page 6 
By JENNIFER GRONER 
News Staff 

A mandatory meeting for all students running for Notre Dame class offices was held last night at Theodore's to out­line the offical rules for poten­tial candidates in the March 8 elections. 
Jim Grace and John Wilson, co-directors of Ombudsman, explained the rules which are stated in the Bylaws of the Stu­dent Government Constitution. 

According to the bylaws, a ticket consists of class presi-


Minorities favor enrollment plan 
Dole, Gephardt victorious; Bush is far behind 
Associated Press Dukakis, bidding for a victory both Midwestern states, focus­think when you wake up in the effort in Minnesota, as did Re­outside his native New En­ing instead on the South. morning you'll see it's a great publican also ran Rep. Jack 
MINNEAPOLIS, Min. -Sen. gland, led in early returns in victory," he said. Kemp.Bob Dole scored an impressive Minnesota's Democratic 
Dole, a loser last week in Dukakis said he had run well victory in the South Dakota Re-l""!"••,..-:m:ri1miD New Hampshire, said, "It's a "right in the back yard of both Tuesday's voting gave the
publican primary Tuesday lot more fun winning." Gephardt" and Sen. Paul field of presidential hopefuls anight and bid for a back-up win 
Gephardt and Dukakis both Simon. "If we can continue to chance to show electoralin Minnesota's presidential pronounced themselves well do consistently well as we did strength before the Southern caucuses, with Vice President pleased. tonight, we're going to win this festival of primaries andGeorge Bush far behind in both caucuses. He was running 
nomination for the caucuses known as Super Tues­states. Rep. Richard Gephardt second to Gephardt in South "Tonight is a Gephardt presidency," he said. day on March 8. And Dole, won the South Dakota race on Dakota. night," crowed the Missouri bouncing back from a drubbing 
the Democratic side. Bush read the writing on the congressman. "A few days ago Simon was struggling to sur­Massachusetts Gov. Michael wall and put up little effort in we were behind in the polls. I vive and mounted a vigorous see PRIMARIES, page 5 
-------~----­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1988 


Of Interest 
Deadlinefor applicationsfor the workshop ''What's the Future of This Relationship" is tomorrow. The pro­gram if designed for couples in serious relationships who want to explore choices and decisions about their future and will be held Saturday, Feb. 27 from noon to 5 p.m. by the Office of Campus Ministry. -The Observer 
Third World Awareness Week continues with a lecture by Dr. Gerrish, an agricultural engineer from Mic­higan State University who has worked in Zimbabwe and India, from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Weiskoff will speak tonight from 7 to 9 in the Center for Social Concerns on his travels. -The Observer 
Pat Hannon, seminarian will speak on a seminarian's perspective tonight from 8 to 9:30 in the Old College next to the Log Chapel. -The Observer 
The final scholarship taxation meeting to receive assistance in calculating what part of your scholar­ship!grant must be reported on your tax return will be today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. This information is tailored to undergraduates. -The Observer 
Major Confusion Night will be held tonight at 7:30 in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Student representatives will give brief talks and answer any questions concerning what it's like to be a marketing, finance, accounting or management major. -The Observer 
Black aviators, their history and achievements in the Air Force will be the focus of a briefing given by the president of the Indianapolis Chapter of the Tuskeegee Airmen. The briefing will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, and is sponsored by the Air Force ROTC. -The Observer 
St. Edward's Hall Religious Commission invites the members of the Notre Dame community to hear Father James Burtchaell, speak on "The Israeli-Palestinian Con­flict" tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the St. Edward's first floor lounge. -The Observer 
Stephen Kromkowski, a fifth year architecture/art history major, will display his thesis project, completed this past fall, in the North Gallery of the Architecture Building. The exhibit, a design for the Baltimore College of Fine Arts, will run until March 6. -The Observer 
The Math Club will meet at 7:30 tonight in the Pasquerilla West Chapel Lounge to hold informal discus­sions on both summer and career opportunities available to math majors. Pizza and refreshments will be served. 
-The Observer 
Civil Engineering Career Nightwill be Thursday at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center. There will be speakers on graduate school, gov­ernment, structural and evironmental engineering. -The Observer 
Collegiate Jazz Festival needs ticket takers, stage crew, and many other workers for all three sessions of the festival April 8 and 9. Anyone interested should call Ken Schwartz at 283-1100. -The Observer 
Sophomore Literary Festival continues today witli Peter Michaelson at noon in the library lounge. This evening features a reading by John Engels in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 8 followed by a reception in the library lounge. -The Observer 
The Women'sCareCenter!PregnancyHelpCenter is holding a training session for volunteers during the weekend of March 4, 5, 6. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testing, crisis counseling, and commu­nity referrals. The session will be held on campus in the Knights of Columbus building. Please contact the Women's Care Center for more information Monday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 234-0363. -The Observer 
---Ih-e-0-bse.----~~r--.1.-=-Y=-'­
Design Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... John Blasi Design Assistant ....... Annette Rowland Accent Copy Editor ......... Susan Buckley Typesetters .......................... Tom Elliott Accent Layout................. Heather Hypes .................................. Becky Gunderman Typists................................. Will Zamer News Editor............. Ann Marie Durning ND Day Editor ................ Carrie McCall Copy Editor........................ Liz Panzica Photographer ............... Brian McDonald Sports Copy Editor............. .. Pete Skiko Sports Wednesday Copy Editor............. .. ......................................... Brian O'Gara 
~ a..ner (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. 'Be Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina 'Be <Miaener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IDdiana 46~~6. 
'Be a..ner is a member of 'Be Allodaled Preu. All reproduction ri&hts are reserved. 

Values abandoned to pursue American dream 
John Mulheren was a very bright man, one of the best arbitragers on Wall Street. Last weekend Mulheren was stopped by the police as he was pulling his car out of his driveway. 
In the backseat was a gym bag with a camouflage outfit and a .233 caliber assault rifle. He intended to use it to kill Ivan Boesky and Boesky's head trader, Michael Davidoff. Both men had implicated him for "parking," a stock operation that could result in a jail sen­tence for Mulheren. 

Barry Minkow, the whiz-kid and darling of Wall Street will be going to court soon, facing · a host of charges. At age 21, he built a $211 
million company that only existed on paper. 
Mulheren and Minkow were obviously pretty sharp characters to have amassed their wealth and reputations so soon in life. What the heck happened to these guys? 
The easy answer, the trendy answer, is greed. Newsweek said we were all too greedy and greed is out now; so everything must be cheery again and we can all sleep well tonight. Back to the golf courses. 
I find this to be extraordinarily naive. Men with real talent like Mulheren and Minkow don't toss aside ethics without cause. 
The most glaringly obvious cause is mediocrity. These men didn't play by the rules because they didn't see any reasonable way to achieve the American Dream by age 90. They wanted to enjoy success while they were young; thus slow, methodical success wasn't on their agenda. 
Like Boesky, Colonel North and society's other arch-villians, they saw the crowds of people staring in frustration at the mountain of red tape that stood between them and and their dreams--and decided there had to be a better way to get there. 

Our country's system of incentives is shot, and I think deep down most of us know it. We cheered North, a blatant criminal, because he did what 538 bureaucrats in Congress couldn't­-deal with a problem. People across the country weren't cheering him; they were protesting the lackluster, socialist society our technocrats and overzealous civil libertarians are creating for us. 
Mulheren and Minkow are symbols that should warn us we're in the fourth quarter as a nation. Our allies look at our foreign policy, or lack thereof, with bewilderment. We are a nation with a secretary of state, backroom colonels, and a speaker of the House all handing our neighbors abroad radically different ver­sions of one nation's "consensus" view of the world. 

Matt Crowley 
Copy Editor 



The post-war Goliath is quickly becoming a second-rate power. 
We are a nation with doctors who won't oper­ate for fear of a lawsuit, corporations paying people to hide money they earned, and aban­doned billion dollar nuclear power plants that couldn't be finished because Proud American Workers couldn't do an efficient, quality job. 
We are such a mess that leaders with poten­tial like Howard Baker and Mario Cuomo won't even run for president, our country's highest office. 
And as taxes rise with the walls of paper that surround the nation's capital, you and I will find ourselves in an increasingly greyer, weaker, "could've been" country. 
Boesky and North asked the right question: is there a better way? Their answers, however, were totally unacceptable. There has to be a moral way to arrest the spread of our nation's most fearsome disease--mediocrity. 
I'm not running for office -yet -but one of you might, and if mediocrity and living in a second­rate country scares you half as badly as it does me, then maybe the Boesky-North question will be answered by a Notre Dame graduate. And the Mulherens and Minkows can go back to chasing the American Dream the old-fashioned way -morally. 

STUDENTS ARE CORD~Y INV!nED TO MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION & DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFFICE. 
February's Leader: Mr. Patrick Hannon, Topic: A Seminarian's Retrospective 
Date: Wednesday, February 24, 1988 8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College 
For Further Information: Fr. Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C. Fr. Paul F. Doyle, O.S.C. 
Vocation Directors P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame. ln. 46556 Phone: (219)-239-6385 



Wednesday, February 24, 1988 

Company to pay for Love Canal cleanup 
Associated Press 
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. -A federal judge ruled Tuesday that Occidental Chemical Corp. is liable for the cost, es­timated at more than $250 mil­lion, of cleaning up the Love Canal landfill that became synonymous with environmen­tal disaster. 
After nine years of delibera­tions, U.S. District Judge John Curtin said Occidental produced the wastes that created the disaster and stored them in a way that would even­tually result in toxic leakage. 
"It is beyond dispute that OCC's disposal practices were at least partially responsible for the release, or threatened release, of the chemicals from the Love Canal landfill," Cur­tin said. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For further information contact 
Kevin Becker at The Observer (239-5303) 
Curtin said Occidental's liability would be determined in further court proceedings in­volving claims against Oc­cidental by other parties, in­cluding the state of New York and some residents. Previous estimates have ranged above $250 million. 
Occidental spokesman James Green said the company was disappointed by the ruling and would not comment on its plans until its attorneys had a chance to study Curtin's 36­page decision. 
''At last someobody has been assigned some responsibility," said Sister Marjeen Hoffmann, director of the Ecumenical Task Force which has been an advocate for people in the Love Canal neighborhood. 
"This is what we've been waiting for," she said. 

The Observer page 3 
Toughening up 
Junior George Molinsky trains in the Joyce ACC for Sunday, Feb. 28 and continue on Wednesday, March the upcoming Bengal Bouts. The Bengal Bouts start 2 and on Friday, March 4. 
on Sunday and published in the Observer, said Grace. 

RUIeS 
The candidates will be al­continued from page 1 lowed to campaign from mid­night on Tuesday, March 1 until 
posted outside the OBUD office midni ht the following Mon-
c:;-?[lJlrc:;? h\ [{5)~LJ lJljf..S G;lfn) LJ ~ 
are better with 
Your Group and 

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
day, March 7. Elections will be held the following day, he said. 
Candidates must receive 50 percent of the votes cast plus one vote in order to win, said Grace. If no ticket achieves the required total on the first bal­lot, a run-off election will be 
held, he added 
According to the Bylaws, all candidates' tickets will be al­lowed a $75 campaign limit. The OBUD Election Commit­tee must be presented with receipts for all election materi­als prior to their use. 
Failure to disclose the cost of any election materials can result in forfeiture of can­didacy, said Grace. 
The Observer 




Security Beat 
Associated Press 

LIGONIER, Ind. -Workers at the Winter Olympics shouldn't get burned for · roasting marshmallows over the Olym­pic flame, the president of the nation's second-largest marsh­mallow maker said Tuesday. 
"If that's as bad as it gets, they won't have too many prob­
• lems," said Charles Kidd, the
Mall call The Observer/Brian McDonald president of Kidd & Co. Inc. · Ch · R d d h' AI . Some members of the Inter­
.1.
Jumor ns e mon co11ects IS ma1 m umm Hall Tuesday. Redmond national Olympic Committee 
.FEBRUARY 21 
6:09p.m. A Titusville, N.J. resident reported the loss of her gold bracelet in the South Quad area sometime between 9 p.m. Friday, Feb. 19 and 3 p.m. on Saturday, Feb. 20. 
8:18p.m. Security received a report of the theft of electronic equipment from O'Shaughnessy Hall sometime after 10 p.m. on Saturday , Feb. 20. 
FEBRUARY 22 
I:45 a.m. Three Notre Dame students reported that their cars were broken into while parked in the D2 lot. The side windows on the vehicles were smashed out and one stereo was taken. Damage estimates are unknown. 
9:23 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of a clock radio from O'Shaugnesssy Hall. His loss is estimated at $40. 
8:40 p.m. A Pennsylvania resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 54 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Ivy Road. 
9:05 p.m. A Michigan resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travelir.g 57 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Edison Road. 
Wednesday, February 24, 1988 
FEBRUARY 23 
I:52 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the North Dining Hall construction site where a worker had fallen and was injured. The worker was taken by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. 
2:35 p.m. A South Bend resident reported the theft of her coat and gloves from the Alumni Senoir Club sometime between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $175. 

Marshmallow roasters at Calgary shouldn't get burned says sponsor 
received some belated Valentines that seemed to have lost their way in 
campus mail. 


Plan 
continued from page 1 
"majority community realizes that the University isn't enact­ing some kind of quota system and lowering the standards to increase minority enroll­ment." 
''That sort of thing would per­petuate stereotypes about us," said Boykin. 
Jesus Ramos, a Hispanic sophomore, who also ex­pressed concern about altering requirements, said, "Minorities should not be treated differently in regards to academics." 
The admissions office, Dur­gans contends, has been trying to increase minority enroll­ment for the past few years. 
The admissions office ex­pects about 100 minority high school seniors to paricipate in this year's minority recruit­ment weekend in April, said student admissions officer Marty Rodgers. 
He explained that he felt his job would be easier with the support of the University pres­ident, administration and fin­ancial aid office to increase minority enrollment. 
The endowment "makes the packages we have for students a lot more competitive," Rodgers said. 
In the past insubstantial fin­ancial aid hindered recruit­ment of minorities, Durgans said. 
The University "should in­crease the population (of minorties) and then keep them here with funding." 
"I just wish (the endowment) had been offered when I was a freshman," said black senior Aneka Bell. 
Correction 
A candidate for Saint Mary's student body vice president for academic af­fairs and college relations was incorrectly identified in Tuesday's Observer. Kelly Connery is running for this position. 
"Since it's Black History Month, it's an good time to begin establishing a improved situation for blacks and in a broader sense, minorities in general," said Dennis Tillman, chairman of press and publicity for the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP. 
"During the last four weeks minority concerns have been on everybody's mind," Tillman said. "People are realizing that change is coming and it's best for Notre Dame." 
which owns the flame ex~ pressed disgust last week ~hen 
He said he hopes the pro­posed "Year of Cultural Diver­sity" will stimulate concern on a campus-wide basis next year. This event, beginning in the fall, will include pastoral, aca­demic and social programs aimed at raising the concious­ness of students to minority needs. 
"We know about our culture and history. We're trying to share it with the rest of the stu­dents," Bell said. 



The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editors Copy Editors Business Page Editor 
Application deadline: Thursday, February 25 For further information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
Friday, Feb. 26th 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
Ticket,~ $1 0.00, Studenh $5.00 
Available at the Box Office 
£ To charge by
-.I 
284-4626


a"""' ~ 
Visa, Master;d accepted 

1l/l SaintMary~eg~
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 
venue volunteers roasted hot dogs and marshmallows over the flame. 
IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch also reportedly was upset by the weekend cookout at Nakiska, the venue for Alpine skiing about 60 miles west of Calgary. 
The IOC officials complained that the behavior was inappro­priate. 
For Kidd, whose family­owned company has been con­fecting marshmallows in Noble County since 1895, the uncon­ventional roast was just more marshmallow fun. 
"I thought it was kind of neat," he said. 
He said marshmallows and inappropriate behavior just don't seem to go together. 
"Almost everybody has kind of fond memories (of marshmallows)," said Kidd. "Marshmallows are tied in with a lot of family traditional­
type stuff, like roasting over a 
fire." 
It's even possible the Olym­pics volunteers were eating Kidd marshmallows. 
"We do a fair business in Canada," he said. 
The company, founded by Kidd's great-grandfather, Al­bert Kidd, markets under its own name and under about 70 other brand names in the United States and Canada, he said. The company ships six semi-truckloads of marshmal­lows daily and is second only to Kraft in total production, he said. 

Kidd recently became an Olympics sponsor, a licensing · arrangement that brings money to the U.S. Olympic ef­fort and will allow Kidd to use the Olympic logo on a new line of larger marshmallows. 


FRI. FEB. 26th 
8:00 P.M. 


NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: $10.00 $8.50 
$2.00 DISCOUNT: NOtSMC STUDENTS! FACULTYISTAFF 

AN TOSTAL LOGO CONTEST 



$25 PRIZE 
Logo due 
Fri. Feb 
at SUB office by 3:00 
...-----~---~--------~~-------~ -~ ~~-------­
Wednesday, February 24, 1988 The Observer page 5 


Minnesota 

a 
Bush 43% Dole 

-
Robertson 
Robertson 

Is% 
Kemp

Kemp 
80% reporting 

-30% reporting 
Dukakis 
Dukakis

0% 
Gephardt 
Gephardt 
01%
~ 
Hart

Gore 
[}% 
!16% I 
Jackson

Hart 
117%
Ds% 
Simon

Jackson 
Ds% 
Simon 
Source: Associated Press 


~[FJ@~If~ 
are better with Your Group and 

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
Primaries 
continued from page 7 
at Bush's hands last week in New Hampshire, was making the most of it in his Midwestern home ground. 
In returns from 80 percent of South Dakota's 1,151 precincts, Dole had 36,789 or 56 percent of the vote compared to 12,546 or 19 percent for former television evangelist Pat Robertson and 11,943 or 18 percent for Bush. Rep. Jack Kemp trailed with 5 percent. 
With 83 percent of the Dem-cedure there was complicated ocratic precincts reporting in and returns were expected to South Dakota, Gephardt had trickle in well past midnight. 23,849 or 45 percent and Dukakis grabbed a lead in the Dukakis 15,600 or 30 percent. early returns. With just 4 per­The also rans were Sen. Albert cent of the precincts reporting, Gore Jr. at 9 percent, Gary Hart Dukakis had 36 percent of the had 6 percent with Jesse Jack-vote. Simon had 17 percent and son had 5, as did Sen. Paul Jackson 16 percent, with Gep­Simon, fighting for survival in hardt trailing at 8 percent and the Democratic race. Hart last at 1 percent. 
In Minnesota, results from 30 The Kansas senator also percent of the precincts gave campaigned hard in Min­Dole 43 percent to 29 percent nesota, but former television for Robertson. Kemp was third evangelist Pat Robertson with 15 percent and Bush was dreamed of an upset and Rep. running fourth with 10 percent. Jack Kemp made an all-out ef-
The Democratic caucus pro-fort as well. 

Drinking water at ND/SMC is safe' according to tests 
By GREG LUCAS Copy Editor 
Although questions have been raised about the safety of certain drinking fountains and water coolers thought to have high lead concentrations, the drinking water at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is safe accor­ding to routine E.P.A. tests. 
According to a recent article in The Wall Street Journal, three out of the four of the larg­est manufacturers of water coolers informed a House sub­committee that they have produced models that have at least one lead-soldered joint that contacts drinking water. 
One of these companies, Hal­sey Taylor of Freeport, Ill., ad­mitted to using lead-based solder in units as recently as three months ago. 
Don Dedrick, director of Notre Dame's physical plant, said that the Notre Dame campus does have some J.lalsey Taylor water fountains. 
He added, however, that it is difficult to determine the exact number and location because the hired contractor generally decides which brand water cooler is to be used in a build­ing. 
It is evident that the problem of lead-based solder is not a new one. Dave Von Huben, director of the drinking water division of the Evironmental Protection Agency's regional office in Chicago, said that lead-based solder is very common and not a problem specific to water fountains. 
Von Huben said that it was unlikely that the use of lead­based solder could account for dangerously high levels of lead in the drinking water. He added that lead is also prevalent in car exhaust, paint and food. 
"Almost every new home in America has copper pipes with lead solder," said John DeLee, director of Notre Dame utilities. 
water analysis from various samples around campus. The agency checks for a number of things including lead concen­tration and there has never been a problem with that, DeLee said. 
"We never see results unless there is a problem," said DeLee. 
Lowe! Barber, assistant con­troller for plant operations at Saint Mary's, also said that he was aware of no specific prob­lems with lead concentrations in drinking water. Barber said the water on the Saint Mary's campus was tested for volatile organic compounds in 1987, but he was uncertain if lead con­centrations had been tested. 
"I've heard nothing indica­ting that lead fittings in water coolers could create a health problem in a person," Barber said. 
Von Huben said that the most serious health risk would come from units over 40 years old that may have water tanks 

~1TmHID rE ~TT rro rnJ []/) rE oo ~ ~ rr ~1J ~fEfE[ID~ WrnJO!Jg g g 
Are you interested? 
-Interested In helping to manage and account for 
$390,000??? 

According to Von Huben, a completely lined with lead. law banning the use of lead­According to Von Huben, based solder in plumbing used children are the most suscepti­for drinking water was passed ble to lead in the water. He said a year ago, however, the states this may cause altered neural were given 18 months before development and kidney they begin enforcing it. troubles. Lead also poses a risk 
According to DeLee, the for pregnant women and 
E.P.A. sends a representative causes hypertension in middle­bi-annually to do a detailed aged men. 
If you are... 
If you are a 
SOPHMORE BUSINESS MAJOR 
who enjoys working with 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU 
as the 
STUDENT BODY ASSISTANT TREASURER!!! 

TI1e Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: 
Student Government 
SUB Halls clubs  and  organizations  
1l1is position will prepare you for becoming the Student Body Treasurer the following year.  Applications are available in the Treasurer's office,2nd floor of La Fortune, 12:30-4:30p.m.  

applications are due on Wed. March 2 by 4:00p.m. ANY QUESTIONS? 
Contact Michelle Zinser at 239-7417 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN:  October 9-11, 1987 November 20-22, 1!:187 January 22-24, 1988 • March 25-27, 1988  
CONTACT:  Cijmpus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242  

SIGN UP 
DEADLINE: ~---'M=a=r:....:C=h=--4=------­
COST: $15.00 
-1
OffiCE OF 
0MPU> 
MINI)TRY 


The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1988
page 6 
Capitol Hill veteran, Ball named secretary of Navy 
Peter Michaelson reads for the Sophomore Literary Festival Tuesday in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan on Tuesday picked a veteran Capitol Hill infighter, William Ball III, to step into a simmering dispute over Pent­agon budget cuts as his new secretary of the Navy. 
The White House said the president will nominate Ball, a former Capitol Hill aide who has been chief lobbyist for both the State Department and the White House, to succeed James Webb, who resigned as Navy secretary on Monday with a blast at Secretary of Defense Frank Carlucci. 
"We look to Will Ball to con­tinue working aggressively for a strong U.S. Navy," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, noting Webb's charge that Carlucci had need­lessly sacrificed the adminis­tration's goal of a 600-ship fleet. 
Fitzwater said the adminis­tration still seeks a 600-vessel Navy, but now expects that the goal will be reached in fiscal year 1992, more than two years 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
In other HPC business, elec­tions of new hall presidents was discussed and will be taking place in the dorms within the next few weeks. Approval of proposals to standardize the timing of elections next year was also suggested. 
HPC Co-chairman Bob Daley selected a committee to run nominations for the "Rector Award." Rectors from three dorms from each quad will be selected and the winner will be announced at the HPC banquet on April12. 
To preserve the memories of the past year, the senior class is creating a book of senior mo­ments. Groups and especially halls are encouraged to pur­chase full ($100) and half ($50) page ads to support the publica­tion. 
The newly-formed women's caucus will be holding two events this semester. The first is a "brown bag" lunch on Feb. 29 from noon to 1 p.m. at the CSC. Two Notre Dame profes­sors will speak on "Women in Graduate School and Academia." On March 22 at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library lounge two Notre Dame women alumni will discuss "Women in Business." 
Also, nominations are now being taken for candidates for King and Queen of the Irish'. The contest, which will be held on March 3 in Theodore's, will require candidates to tell an Irish joke and a limerick about 
their dorm, dance  a jig and  
wear Irish dress.  
The  Leprechaun,  Brian  

Stark, will emcee the 8 p.m. event. Those wishing to vote for candidates can do so in LaFor­tune Student Center. 
Pangborn is sponsoring a charity golf tournament on March 26 to benefit the Wo­men's Care Center. 
Four members of each hall can participate at $10 per per­son. The tournament will be held at Notre Dame and prizes will be awarded including meals at Tippecanoe restau­rant and the Loft. 
Saturday evening Theodore's, SUB and the Mul­ticultural Council will sponsor a Brazilian carnival 
name please print dearly 
REQUIEM FOR A LITURGIST Endgame Dissent at Notre Dame 
• 
ON August 31, 1987 the head of Notre Dame's liturgy program was discovered in the basement of his home in South Bend slumped against a sofa. He had been shot through the heart with a .357 magnum. Near the body police found whips, handcuffs, a number of weapons, inlcuding two automatic rifles, and several articles of leather clothing of the type worn by those into motorcycles and/or sadomasochism. The head of the liturgy program also left a note requesting that he be given no form of Christian burial. 
SO begins a story that is now sending shock waves throughout the Catholic Church in this country. Have you ever wondered why the Church is in such a mess? Have you ever wondered why the Mass 
has become a political football? Have you ever wondered where your local liturgy commission gets its crazy ideas? Have you ever wondered where dissent comes from and where it leads? "Requiem for a Liturgist" is not just the story of one influential man's death. It is a cogent account of the entire trajectory of 
FIDELITY Magazine 206 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 
street 

city state zip subscription (22 issues) to Fidelity. 
It's Time For A Change. It's Time For TIDfliTY 
dissent -where it comes from and where it leads -and 
the effect of dissent on the liturgy and the Church. "Requiem for a Liturgist" is typical of the no-nonsense reporting you get month after month in Fidelity. Subscribe now and I'll send you a copy free. 
I have enclosed: 
0 $2.00 for one copy of "Requiem for a Liturgist." 
0 $15 for a free copy of your "Requiem for a Liturgist" issue plus a one year's subscription (11 issues) to Fidelity. 
0 $28 for a free copy of your "Requiem for a Liturgist" issue plus a two year's 
after Reagan leaves office, rather than in fiscal 1989 as originally planned. 
Ball, 40, a soft-spoken Southerner who came to Wash­ington as an aide to former Sen. Herman Talmadge, D-Ga., has a reputation for skill at the behind-the-scenes com­promises and maneuvers needed to steer legislation through Congress. 

Webb, on the other hand, was more noted for outspoken ad­vocacy of such controversial positions as his criticism of the service academies' admission of women and his ruling that the Navy would no longer ac­commodate officers who want to play professional 
The festival continues through Saturday with workshops and readings at noon and in the evenings. 






Viewpoint 
page 7 

The evils of using food as a weapon 
Wednesday, February 24, 1988 
In downtown Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, cuse to expedite his Marxist plans. country are blockaded to food ship­flagged support of Catholic "justice and 
stands a 20-foot high bronze statue of Whole sections of the country have been ments. peace" groups throughout North one Vladimir I. Lenin. This "bronze bol­denied food shipments, while the mili­But what if slow starvation doesn't America, which claim that "all the shevik" appears to be smiling. Ap­tary solidifies its control. According to work? Easy! Just kill those "petty bour­world's problems" are attributed to,parently the five million Ethiopians on a former government commissioner, geois" peasants who don't particularly you guessed it, the bad old U.S. of A. the verge of starvation aren't quite so Dawit Giorgis, the resettlement pro­agree with you, your collectivism, your Meanwhile, Murder Inc. rolls on and happy. Back here in the West, many grams and food blockades are merely atheism or any number of other trivial on. like to tell us that the "African "ways of dominating and regimenting idiosyncracies. Leave it to Marxists to develop novel 
Famine" is the only reason behind this society, putting the people in one place Such tactics are not limited to Et­ways of using food, a life-giving sub­"unhappiness." Most Ethiopians know and controlling them." And the fewer hiopia or Nicaragua. There's Cam­stance, as a deadly bargaining chip. So
better. Why? Because their country is Ethiopians there are, the more easily bodia, Vietnam, Mozambique, Guyana it goes. 
part of the wide, wonderful world of controlled they will be. 
and of course the Soviet Union, just tocommunism, complete with a dictator Mengisti Mariam's military power is 
name a few. Yet the Marxist govern­Glenn Fogarty is enrolled in the Fresh­who won't hesitate to use a standard formidable, thanks to the five billion mpntc: of thP~e ~ountriP<>. especially man Year of Studies and is a regularcommunist tactic: using food as an dollars worth of arms sent by the Soviet 
Nicaragua's, continue to enjoy the un-Viewpoint columnist.
ideological weapon. Union. Virtually no famine relief has come from the Soviets (since famine is 
Glenn G. Fogarty 
a weapon). In contrast, more than two billion dollars worth of food aid has 
P.O. Box Q
come from the West, most of it from
the american vision 
the U.S. Mariam's regime has made additional money for arms by charging 
The absolute control of food supplies relief agencies for the privilege ofhas been an integral, albeit brutal, part 
feeding Ethopians. Much of the food which is why I am in favor of a limitedof political and military strategies from never reaches the hungry because of "pilot project" in which the University 
ancient times. Humane powers like As­Co-ed experiment
blockades or through diversion by gov­agrees to give students the option ofsyria and Sparta found it to be a rather ernment troops in the countryside. coed housing. If enough students are
effective tool in sieges against the cities a viable option
Somewhere over the rainbow, willing and interested, perhaps twoof their various enemies. This tactic in 
thousands of miles away, lies Dear Editor: dorms could be made coed and thenthe twentieth century has taken on a Nicaragua, that land of milk, honey and I couldn't agree more with the con­monitored. If response is good, perhaps unionly Marxist coloration, and has "social injustice." Daniel Ortega's San­clusions of Tom Varnum in his article more dorms could be made coed--butproven itself quite efficient. The idea dinista Marxist government (with full "Co-ed Housing Works in London." always the option of single-sex housing goes: if people don't like your support of Catholic "justice and peace" After comparing notes with my friends should remain. The coed dorms should "workers' paradise" idea, starve them groups in the U.S.) has a food control from other universities and spending be single-sex by floor, with parietals in(if they still don't like your idea, kill program that easily rivals those of time at some of these colleges, I have effect on a floor visitation basis. Thatthem). Back in the 1930s, "Uncle Joe" Stalin and Mengisti Mariam. Ordinary decided that Notre Dame is deficient way, residents can experience the mul­Stalin withdrew all the grain from the 
Ukraine and sealed its borders as part Nicaraguans can only secure food in its handling of male-female rela­tiple advantages of coed housing while of his forced collectivistic program. As (from the Sandinista food agency) if tions. By segregating the sexes by still retaining the privacy and a result, an estimated 14 million people they carry an "ideological purity" card dorm, it is depriving students of oppor­camaraderie of single-sex living. died in this "terror famine." issed by the government. If the Sandi­tunities to interact with members of the Tradition is, of course, an issue that 
Ethiopia doesn't appear much differ­nistas think that a person is insuffi­opposite sex in a casual, open, day-to­cannot be ignored in this debate. Many ent. As soon as he came to power 14 ciently committed to the cause of Mar­day manner. Men and women are en­of the halls have strong single-sex tradi­years ago, Soviet puppet dictator Haile xism, that person will not receive a couraged to view each other as poten­tions, and the disruption of these and Mengisti Mariam embarked on his own card. No card, no food. Anyway, thanks tial SYR dates or "scopes" rather than other traditions is a very touchy sub­forced collectivistic program. Most Et­to collectivistic planning, food is so as people who have feelings and ideas. ject. However, because many or most hiopians, thank you, preferred to farm scarce that the "ideologically pure" Some of the most precious friendships halls would remain as they are, much their own land. Consequently, Mariam have to stand in endless lines for the are those between members of the op­tradition would be maintained (it is also started his resettlement program, most meagre fare. posite sex. Unfortunately, the develop­quite possible to begin or continue which uproots rural tribesmen on a In their war against the peasant re­ment of such mature and meaningful strong traditions in coed dormitories). wholesale basis and relocates them on sistance (the Contras) and the popula­relationships is hampered in an envi­But it is also important to realize that collective farms. In short order, collec­tion that supports them, the Sandinistas ronment reminiscent of junior-high tradition in and of itself is not always
tivistic agriculture destroyed the na­have used typical Marxist tools (in con­days. This problem is especially acute a good reason for refusing to change:tion's once-productive land with the junction with their forced collectivistic at Notre Dame because of the structure the advantages of and needs for certain system's notorious ineffectiveness and program). Since 1984 the Sandinistas of residence life (the emphasis on the changes may sometimes be compelling overfertilization of the soil by East have largely depopulated northern dorm as a permanent, central focus of enough to justify some breaks with Block advisors (rendering the soil so Nicaragua, removing more than 70,000 activity) and the lack of social alterna­tradition. acidic and vulnerable to erosion that it peasants, razing their villages and tives such as frat houses or typical "col­Coed housing is an option that should 
became useless). placing them in "re-education camps." 
lege town" hangouts. While neither of definitely be made available to the stu­A bad situation became worse when Six thousand peasants in southern these is bad in itself--the residence sys­dents on this campus. If enough people 
the drought hit. Yet the resettlement Nicaragua have been placed in these tem is very advantageous--these fac­show an interest, maybe the ideas of programs continued and still do. camps in recent months as well. Little tors combine with misconceptions people like Tom Varnum can become Popular discontent was universal, whe­food and water is permitted to enter about male-female relations to form a reality.
ther passive, or focused in the nine these sites. That is, until the point communication barrier between the rebel groups (mostly Marxist) chal­where the people are sufficiently weak sexes. Julie Scharfenberglenging Mariam's rule. Mariam has to be susceptible to complete in­
I am aware that there are many vi­Lewis Hall
merely used this discontent as an ex-doctrination. Entire regions of the able arguments against coed housing, February 19, 1988 
Doonesbu 
I'M GOING 705Tl3P A "' 
Ol/TOF 7HERfXY;f fOR 5TllAIU 
AFtiA/MINI/Tl5, ANIJ POll..?-..... 
Garry Trudeau 
5H()(JIJ)SOMUCH I(JH0'5 P()t.{lll< 8& IN 7HE eXPECTEP HANilS OF50 NO 7f) ION /AIIAT F6141~ ' 
8Efj£­IT? IFf/& VU& 81JMP2 
~~ 
PECT£31?? \
\ 
""' 

Quote of the Day 
"There is nothing that wastes the body like worry, and one who has any faith in God should be ashamed to worry about anything whatsoever." 
Mahatma Gandhi 

Editorial Board Operations Board


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ... .. Kevin Becker Buslr ... ss Manager .... ...................... John Oxrider Managing Editor .... . ........ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor ... ... . . . . . . . . . . .. Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor ........ . . .. Jim Ailey Production Manager...................... Melissa Wamke Viewpoint Editor .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chri~ Murttty Projects Manager ......................... Mark McLaughlin
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor... . ............ Dennis Cortigan Systems Manager . . . ...................... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect the policies of 
Accent Editor ..... .. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele
the admm1strat1on of either institution. The News is repo111jd as accurately and obfectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor.. . ..... Sandy Cerimete Graphic Arts Manager...................... Laura Stanton
poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Photo Editor .. . ............. Jim Carroll 1s available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged 




Integral parts come together 
T
KERRY COSTELLO accent writer wo people. One, more than a little childish and care­free; a genius besides. The other, serious, stately, achievement-oriented, yet far from genius status. But above all jealous... deathly jealous. Because he does not possess the brilliancy of the other, he wants revenge. 
Who are these people? They are the musicians Mozart and Salieri, whose situations will come to life March 2-6 at the showing of "Amadeus" in Washington Hall. 
Professor Frederic Syburg, director of the play, expands on the characters of Mozart and Salieri: "Mozart was a real genius. He wrote music far superior to that of Salieri, al­though he was immature. 
"Salieri was a skilled courtier, and court life suited him well. He was composer at the Court of the Emperor in Vienna and a very famous musician in Europe. However, he was no genius." 
In "Amadeus," friction oc­curs between these two charac­ters as Salieri grows increas­ingly jealous of Mozart's talents. As a young man, Salieri makes a bargain with God that he will pursue virtue if God will make him a com­poser. Because of his success in court life, he believes that God has agreed to the pact. However, once he sees Mozart's immense talent coupled with an obvious lack of virtue, he feels that God has betrayed him. He therefore vows to chal­lenge God by taking revenge upon Mozart. 
According to Professor Syburg, the integration of two components helps the entire play to coalesce. First is its matter of concept, which serves as a spine for the play, and second is its rehearsal process. The play's concept involves study of the script which reveals its unusual form and its handling of time. "First of all," Professor Syburg states, "is the play's somewhat uncon­ventional form. It is a narrative, rather than a drama. Salieri, the narrator, is always on stage, and all actions are fil­tered through his conscience. He guides our responses." 
Second, the scenes in the play are not chronological. Beginning in 1823, just before Salieri's death, the play flashes back to 1790, then progresses to 1823. The span of Salieri's life encompasses a number of great changes in the world, such as the American and French Revolutions. 
Professor Syburg comments, "In the literary world at this time, two great characters are presented: Figaro and Faust. Mozart, like Figaro, sees the world as solid and unchanging. As in the words of Alexander Pope, 'Whatever is, is right.' He does not question or deny. 
Salieri, on the other hand, like Faust, will change the world if it doesn't work and will turn away from God if he has to." 
Changes in music accompa­nied these historical and literary situations. The baroque period of Bach and Handel gave way to the romantic per­iod of Beethoven and Schubert. Salieri, witnessing these changes, adapted his musical style from one mode to the other. "Salieri was never more than derivative. He followed the musical fashion of the people around him. His music changed as he assimilated the qualities of his contemporaries' styles," said Professor Syburg. "We often seem to forget the overlapping of musicians. For instance, Beethoven was a pupil of Salieri." 
While there may be some historical evidence that Mozart was, in real life, similar to his portrayed character, there is no evidence of the truthfulness of Salieri's portrayed character. It is not known whether Salieri was actually jealous of Mozart. There were only rumors stem­ming from the supposed last words of each. Mozart is said to have died with the words "Salieri poisoned me!" on his lips. Salieri, in turn, is sa!d to have died saying, "''m respon­sible for the death of Mozart." 
The first literary attempt building on this rumor is a poem by Alexander Pushkin titled "Mozart and Salieri." From this poem Peter Shaffer wrote his play "Amadeus." Al­though the play does contain a strong theme of revenge which could be tied to reality, Profes­sor Syburg believes that the true focus should be Salieri himself as a character in a play, not a historical figure. 
The rehearsal process, the second component helping the play to coalesce, has many facets. These include the appli­cation of the concept to rehear­sals and dealing with the crea­tive tension that develops between actors and a produc­tion as a whole. Plans in pro­duction and design were made as early as November, while the cast was chosen during the first week of this semester. 
"Amadeus" is part of the Subscription Series, which also included "Death of a Salesman" in the fall and two productions at St. Mary's, "Thursday's Child" and "The Glass Menagerie." "Amadeus" con-. tains 24 cast members, includ­ing Jack Blakey as Salieri, Brian Loeffler as Mozart and K. Lynn Berry as Constanze. 
The production will run Wed­nesday through Saturday, March 2-5 at 8:10p.m. and Sunday, March 6 at 3:1Op.m. Main floor seats are $6; bal­cony seats cost $5; student and senior citizen tickets cost $4. Tickets are available at the Washington Hall ticket office from 12-6 weekdays, and at the door. 


---~-----------~-~~---~----~--·~~----------~ -~---·­
page 8· 9 


) 
-
Volunteer crew works on an elaborate set 
MATT HYLAND accent writer 
W
hen the playbills for "Amadeus" are handed out next Wednesday night, several names crucial to the produc­tion will not be there. The crew, the students who have volunteered an average of ten hours a week since the begin­ning of the semester, will remain unmentioned. 
Their assignment as scenographers has been to do whatever has to be done and to stay on schedule. According to Ann Tankersley, actress and 
' 
scenographer, "Amadeus" has 
the most elaborate set Notre 
Dame Communication and 
Theatre has ever constructed. 
Details are the most impor­tant part of the scenery. They are painstakingly created to produce the plausible setting required for "Amadeus:" scrol­lwork on the piano, Corinthian capitals, upholstery on stools and chairs, the ballustrade on the opera balcony and wicker backing on the wheelchair, to name only a few. 
"Good work won't be noticed, but do It badly, and people will notice," says Margaret Brenick. She worked on the opera bal­cony that is part of the per­manent set. 
Each volunteer student helps on all of the props. "You learn how to solve problems and figure things out," says Chris­tine Wallmeyer, also a volun­teer. "It's hard work because it 
has to be done right." she adds. 
Do you know who made the sign for "Amadeus" that hangs outside of Washington Hall? Do you know who put about thirty hours into Its construction? "It's my brainchild," says Lisa Schiffgens. "This kind of work is not a chore," she adds. She, along with the rest of the crew, worked on the wheelchair. 
The wheelchair which is 
sturdy and functional required more than average time and labor for a prop that will be on stage only briefly. "That's a lot of work for two minutes," says volunteer Mike Evans. R. J. Haggerty explains that It is ex­citing and satisfying to look up at a prop on the stage and say, "I built that." 
Even after the set construc­tion is completed, many of the volunteers will work on the run­ning crew. They have had to be -· at each rehearsal this week. every night from 7-llp.m. Cur­tain movements must be per­fectly timed. As Brenlck says, people will only notice when something goes wrong. Total concentration is mandatory throughout the entire produc­tion. 
All of the volunteers agree that the work is fun as well as hard. They have found ways to participate in a theatrical pro­duction other than acting. "We're hanging out, and we're involved," says Schiffgens. 
"It's a constructive waste of time," says Brenlck. 

---~---------------~-~----­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1988 
n..,...._Notnt Deme office, lOcated on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent c:.em., .ccepts cluslfted ~-'no from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. Tile.,...._ s.Jnt Mery's office, located on the third ftoor of ~Collge Center, .ccepts clualfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtclay. Oelldllne tor next-day claaalfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaalflllds must
Classifieds be pntpald, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ct..c:ter8 per day. 
NOTICES  ~_ro_R_R_EN_T~l  )~__T_tc_K_a_s~  AAJAX NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. Call Missy 271-0868:•••••••  GONG SHOW Audltlone  ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTEN­TION! Hey, everyone ill you didn't know already, it's Ruth "The Running Nun" Platz's birthday TODAY! Yes, she t1as  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2n4 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272.U27  FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955'255­3684 4 BEDROOM HSE NICE NEIGHBOR­HOOD.475 MO. CALL 2n­9097.0THERS AVAILABLE SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS  WANTED: 2 TIX FOR VANDERBILT GAME Call KrlaU 291·9640 I WANT YOU TO SELL ME EITHER 2 VANDERBILT OR 2 MARQUETTE TICK­ETS. CALL MARC AT 288-7105. THANK YOU Hey ya'll 14 gorgeous blondes from Van­ Things We Won't Miss VII: Negative Wind Chill Factors Scnsamlng Midgets From Hell Screaming Midgets From Hell Scnsamlng Midgets From Hell  GONG SHOW Auditions for next month's Sophomore Class Gong Show to benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach Program will be held Mon Feb. 29 and Wed Mar. 2 from 8:30 -11 p.m. in Crowley Hall. Applicants should call the Class Office at 239-5225 and leave their name and number. GONG SHOW  turned the big 19. Why don't ya'll (wink, wink) wish her a happy birthday. If, of course, you can "catch" her! 2117­French Impressionist Bench Waterfall Handicap door Housekeeping Branding Ice Cream? Last Name?  
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949  2 rooms remaining, N.D. Ave.; 255-5852 evenings  derbilt are still coming up for the game II We'll trade one of them for TICKETS to the game, or we'll pay BIG MONEY for them. Call Pat at 2n-7571 NOW. GO  They'mrrrre Baaaaaaacklll  Auditions GONG SHOW  IF YOU FOUNO A CAMERA AT JPW, IrS MY MOTHER'S. PLEASE, RETURN THE FILM AT LEAST. 419 ST. ED'S £2742. THANKS.  
VOCE GO I  'Da Scnsamln' Brothera  
01 Mldgethood  BETH  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. Get ready lor Spring Break by selling unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan­dora's Books 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open 7 days' week 10-5:30. TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 2n­5014 WORDPROCESSINMYPING. CALL PAT 234-5528.  WANTED Need Riders & drivers to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. Sponsored by the t.U. Club of Notre Dame.  Need a VANDERBILT tix. GA or student. Call Mark X1536. NEED 3 MARQUETTE GA'S. CALL MARY £3760 I'M IN DESPERATE NEED OF MAR· QUETTE TIX, WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE VANDERBILT STUDENT FOR  -They're the Manudo of Bookstore Baakelballl!t Agent 001 (RJG) A second with Mr. Potato Head in Dallas! CONGRATULATIONS!! Here's to more great things to come! Agent 002 BLOODY ENGLISH Watch Outll  Dave Stolpman, I'm watching you II! Matt: No -thank you for a great weekend. Let's hope the coming one is just as fun. Have a great dayl RIDER(S) NEEDED TO MIL­WAUKEE-STEVEN'S PT. 2-26 -2'28, CALL MELINDA £4117.  20 YEARS OLDIII THATS HAUF WAY TO 40 MY GOD THAT'S OLD BUT I GUESS WE ALL HAVE TO GET OLD EVENTUALLY HAPPY BIRTHDAYIIII JOE II Happy Birthday Krista Speck and Kathy Scarbeck(eariy).  
Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the near vicinity for SPRING BREAK!II Can leave any day. Will share expenses. Please call Missy 271-0868 MATH CLUB MEETING DISCUSS SUM· MER INTERNISHIPS AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES. WED -P.W. LOUNGE --7:30pm PIZZA$ SODA --ALL WELCOME LOST/FOUND  OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala. All flelda. $900-2000 mo. SlglltaM­Ing.Frea Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52­IN04,Corone Del Mar,CA 92825. CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­ING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT· lNG INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM· PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: CAMPUS PAINTERS 2901 CENTRAL STREET EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 312-251-0151  ANY MARQUETTE TIX. CALL 3633. 2-4 GA's needed for Vanderbilt. Have 2 Marquette tix. Jim 2n-6405 Need 2 Vanderbilt tickets. CALL 2859. I NEED 2 VANDY GA'S-JB-4681 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Molly Hyland is going to London I CONGRATULATIONSII Your Favorrte Lewisite HEY RUTH!! HAPPY 191h BIRTHDAY! Whet a woman! love, Slime AMY, THANKS FOR THE 6 MONTHS LOVE, MIKE  JILL, YOU HAVE A WAY OF TURNING THE WORLD SO IrS FACING MY WAY. LOVE, ROB 2ND FRIDAY OF LENT-HELP ME PRAY IN CHICAGO.PLEASE CALL IN­EDARIDE 2685 I naad 2 or 4 Vandy GA'a PI-Cell Nancy x4128 ST. EDWARD'S HALL RELIGIOUS COMMISSION INVITES YOU TO HEAR FATHER JAMES BURTCHAELL, C.S.C. SPEAK ON ''THE ISRAELI­PALESTINIAN CONFLICT." THE TALK WILL BE GIVEN TONIGHT AT 9:30PM  TIP Happy 21st berthadayl love, o heltlf'l. Happy 21st Birthday! TIP and ARNIE 21 SHOTS HAVE YOUR NAME ON THEM! THE 7A STUDS SENIOR MEN MOST SENIOR WOMEN ARE WILLING TO PAY FOR HALF It's RICH BARTILOTTI'S Birthday today'! Stop by 158 Alumni to give Rich(or one ol his charming roommates) a kiss on this very special day.  

 Your poem was really bad, but It cheered  IN  ST.  EDWARD'S  FIRST  FLOOR  
.­ IF YOU LOSE ANYTHING IN O'SHAUGHNESSY, CHECK FIRST IN THE DEAN'S OFFICE IN 101 O'SHAG. AND THEN IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. I'M FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEZ­INGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII wrthout my brown leather gloves I left in 120 O'Shag on that cold Wednesday 1Oth 2:oopm. If found, please call £1763 soonlltllllllllll LOST--A Hewlett Packard calculator. If you've found one please call Bill at x­1620. FOUND RACQUETBALL RACKET COVER IN PW MON 2'15. CALL £2737 TO CLAIM REWARD FOR LOST GOLD BRACELET(round).IT WAS LOST ON TUESDAY FEB 16, AND A GOLD HEART SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO IT. TO MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE, A PRESENT FROM MY BOYFRIEND. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4178. THANK YOU F-ound: some chick's glasses on the path up from the Grotto to the Ad Building. You're myopic and probably can't reed this, but If you still want them, they've got scratched lenses, a clear round frame, and serioualy need some tape to hold them tog81her. Call 3204 or 3206 and ask for Bill, Dave, or Matt "The Beast" any time this weekend to claim (or stop by 332004 Holy X Hall).  CAMP WINADU lor boya now norong. High Salary plua Room and B011rd. II you would like to spend your summer In Meu., write to: Doug, 280 Brlldford Dr., Canfield, Ohio, 44406 or cell 216­533-7497 for mora lnfonnatlon. Wanted: four riders to anywhere in Florida, during spring break if interested call "4085 Wanted: 4 fun people Anyone looking for a ride to anywhere in Florida during Spring Break call Jim £4085 GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd like a ride any day you're going. Shared expenses. Call Missy 271-0868 or t.;~ve message Y>toommate. I Need 2 or 4 Vandy GA'a Pleue cell Nllncy x4128 RIDE NEEDED to Rochester,NY Thr. 311 0 After 11 am Call Bill £3467 NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO WEEKEND OF 2'26. PLEASE CALL NANCY £2764. RIDE OFFERED TO CLEVELAND  LIFE'S A BEACH LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL Beachfront hotel on famous strip with 2 restaurants, 3 bars, large pool, bike shop and beachwear. Only $1 ~rs. (4-toorn) for 8 days, 7 nights of Florida fun, sun & surf. Don't miss out!! Call Now! 1·800­ENJOY-US. COED BICYCLE TOURS.COLORADO ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF· TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. Lut Chance For Spring Bnsak '881 Limited space remalnaet South Padre, North Padre, Daytona Beach, Fort Waf. ton Beach and Steamboat, Colorado lor aiding. Hurry, Call Sunchaae Toura toll free 1~1-5911 for reserva­tions and Information TODAY. Credit cerda accepted. YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Las­biens at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality Guaranteed. , SMC FROSH come join us for pizza Thurs 25 After TOP GUN (9PM) IN HAG­GAR FREE BIP, GUESS WHAT TOMORROW IS????? Sanibel Sanibel Sanibel  me up. I fell asleep during the test anyway. But I like you almost as much as you like me, and you'll appreciate that someday. HEY SWEETS! After 4 years, here rt is I By the way, would you like to go to Senior Formal with me? It'll be a partyin' good timet Happy Wed­nesday! SWEETS MISS MEG McGINITUSAYCE--HAVE YOU EVER NEEDED PAMPERS AFTER A NIGHT OUT? TOP SHOT QUOTE FROM EVIE MCGOVERN'S BIRTHDAY BASH: "SO ,HEY, YOU GUYS ... THE DONGER GOES HEREIII I SWEAR, I NEED A B ... llr Hey Kelty B, MS, Stacy, etc.. Do you really nsad these things? Just thought I would make your day! Your 4th roomie SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW GET A DATE NOW  LOUNGE. THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME !IIIII Deadline for applications to the Russia­Scandinavia summer study program is March 15. Enjoy Russia and Scandinavia while earning three credits II For more information and an application, call David at x1155. MAJOR CONFUSION NIGHT will be held Wednesday, February 24th at 7:30 in Nieuwland. Student Representatives will give a brief talk as well as answer any questions in the areas of Marketing, Finance, Management and Accounting. All students facing a "major" decision are invrted. SOMETHING DIFFERENT AND EXCIT­ING FOR EVERYONE II BRAZILIAN CARNIVAL DANCING ···FOOD ---PARTY FAVORS SATURDAY··-FEBUARY 27 0 WHAT A GOOD TIME II CJ IS IT TOO LATE TO "DISCUSS THE ISSUES?" X3896 CHRISTINA The Howard chicks have seen his most, And he waddles like those of the Arctic coast, He's the terror of 361 but he's 20 !'day so wish O'MYRA a good one I IRISH WOMEN SWIMMERS.ONWARD  T.G. ROCKET Being 21 should solve all your "Minor" problema. Happy B-Day. Love and Pride: Mom & Dad LEANN To the best roommate anyone could ask for. Your're such a mom! Thanks for caring enough to stop everything you were doing just to cheer me up when I was so upset. I'll never forget rt. JEN Thanks to my Bestest Buddies for an awesome Birthday! I Love Y'all Wendy I need a ride to Pittsburgh this weekend! HELP! CALL WENDY 284-5506 Why go to a party when you can drink alone? Why kiss your mom, when you both know you love her? Why be human, when you can be a jerk instead? MATT & CHRIS, AM 230, THANKS FOR THE FLOWERS-WHEN DO WE GET SERENADED? KELLY, ANNA, MEGAN. TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING ... ISNT VERY GOOD. SMC Addiction Week Feb. 29·Mar. 3 STAY TUNED FOR DETAILS  
·­ TO THE PERSON WHO INADVER­TANTLY PICKED UP OR FOUND MY BLUE VUAANET SUNGLASSES AT CAREER & PLACEMENT PLEASE RETURN THEM TO KATIE AT CAREER & PLACEMENT OR PLEASE CALL SEAN £2285 OR £2283 -NO QUESTIONS ASKED SPRING BREAK WON'T BE THE SAME WITHOUT THEMIIIIII LOST: PURPLE AMETHYST EARRING in Ubrary Auditorium. Call BETSY­£2n31 LOST THURSDAY 2'1&1!8 2 KEYS ON A STAR SHAPED PAPER CLIP NEED THEM BACK REAL BAD. 271-0758 FOUND: MONEY ON NORTH QUAD. TO CLAIM CALL TARA AT X3724 AND STATE WHEN, ABOUT WHERE AND HOW MUCH LOST. S$$$$50 REWARDS$$$ LOST: black leather jacket wrth fur lining at OC party Fri. night. If found or know where rt is,  TURNPIKE EXITS, PITTS. EXITS, OR I.U.P. -LEAVE 3<3, RETURN 36--3CALL KATRINA 1823 RIDERS NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR VICINITY SPRING BREAK. LEEANN 284-4455 FOR SALE HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION JUST A LITTLE BETTER.  HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO BAU STATE. CAU LIZ AT 284-5282 IF YOU CAN HELP. Brian Do I have to start acting obnoxious, read the Times, and pick up an accent now? Doomed What's Important... Smile SOPHOMORES SOI-'HOMORES SOP· HOMORES SOPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA FEB. 25-TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE CLASS OFFICE ALL WEEK-$3  SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMAL!II SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR TWO. Q:WHY IS A TICKET CALLED A BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHY! SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FORMALIII BID SALES MARCH 1,2&3 GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII GET A DATE NOWIII  TO MIDWESTSII ... CHRISS!: Ain't so bed. CHRISTY MOSTON will swimawesome. TRACIE·Surviving Coke withdrawal. JEAN K.: Gave up distance for lent. Rally around CALLIE. BECKY: MVE AMY V ... GOOP. MARY-The AC­attack. QUIRK: The Comeback Queen. SPECIAL KAY. BETSY BAKER: Fast Times Awart Her. TRACY: Head and Shoulders above the rest. KATHY: Hold on to those Q's. KELLY: Deserves a nice Care Package. JEAN JEAN The Sprint Machine. TANYA: Deserves a Great Big Sign. AMY: She can Taste the Cham­pagne. MONICA: Accounting for suc­cess. ANDREA: 2 first places heve your name on rtll BARB: HI hear Another Tas­tykake joke I'll scream II LErS GO IRISH I THIS ONE IS OURS!! K,A,M,N·and all the rest-aThank you so much for a birthday I really wish I could remember!! I'm sure I had a good time. So hey--Just remember ... 1."YOU'LL ALL PAY FOR THIS" 2."THE DONGER GOES TO SCHOOL HERE" LOVE, EVIE (the birthday gin)  DEAR LIZ, THANK YOU 4 WONDER­FUL, EXOTIC, OVERWHELMING, SENSATIONAL,YEARS. HAPPY AN­NIVERSARY! LOVE,JEFF MARY, Everyone told me to salt your wounds, but I decided to be a nice guy and omit the score of your thrashing. I don't want to give you an incentive for the rematch. Jason how do i spell relief? R-0-L-A-1-D-S. Kathy Mckee, How do you spell relief? The L-1-S-T-E-R+N-E B-0-T-T-L-EIIIII Gat your dele now Get your dale today Don't mlaa the SYR of the year PE'a Monte Carlo Night! STUDMUFFIN O'GARA STUDMUFFIN O'GARA  
please call John at 1388. no questions  ELIZABETH GERRISH, the mad cellist,  STUDMUFFIN O'GARA  
asked plus reward One gold & peari earring erther in B-P, Grace, or somewhere in between. REWARDIII Call x1330. THANKSIII MISSING: WOMENS LONG BlACK WOOL TWEED COAT FROM SENIOR BAR LAST SAT. IT'S GOING TO BE A COLD WINTER WITHOUT IT. PLEASE CALL MARY 2335732 LOST: pair of eyeglasses--brown case with initials DAL on back If found call Dave at 2506 LOST IN OSHAG: pair of red Kombi ski gloves Mom will kill me H I don't find them. Save a life, call Tom at 4010  ..............................................................., COMPLETE PEAVEY PA SYSTEM. IDEAL FOR CAMPUS BANDS. VERY REASONABLY PRICED. CALL MIKE 289-6508 MUST SELL: TICKET TO TUCSON!! $150. LEAVES CHICAGO 12 MARCH RETURNS 19 MARCH. CALL: MICHELE 2804. FOR SALE IBANEZ ROADMASTER BASS $225 NEGOTIABLE 3386 TIM MCAT BOOKS: 1/.1 OFF, 1714  CLASS OF 1990 SOPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT AT UNIVERSITY PARK CINEMA FEBRUARY 25 (THURSDAY) GOOD MORNING VIETNAM SHOOT TO KILL HOPE & GLORY TICKETS IN CLASS OFFICE WED(3:3p-5:30),THU(2:30-4) DON'T FORGET YOUR TICKETS FOR PURLIEI ZANDRA GOOD LUCK IN PIT· TSBURGHI DON'T HLJACK THE PLANE TO A PEPSI FACTORY IF COKE IS SERVED ON IT. KAS  LIVE, IN CONCERT, tomorrow night, Thursday, in the Annenberg auditorium at 7:30. Don't miss this WILD cello ex· travaganzal Snap on your sequins and fasten your high heels Put yourself in the hands of old man experience. Do the town wrth me. P.S. Don't forget your Teddy A STEAK DINNER will be provided for 10% of those who participate in tha Hunger Banquet spon­sored by the World Hunger Coalition on Thursday February 25 at 5pm at the CSC. Proportional to worid food distribution, 35% of the participants will eat a meal of soup and rice and the rest of us will  HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE & MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE, RICH IN MIRACLES KINSMAN IN CHRIST, INTERCESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AIDE IN TIME OF NEED. I PRAY TO YOU TO USE YOUR GOD GIVEN POWER TO AID IN MY URGENT PETITION. THANK YOU ST. JUDEII -JMS You've heard the stories .. Now catch the real thing I I I It's the Gooch .. at Pangborn 'till -sponsored by Gooch for president. You've heard the stories .. now catch the real thing I The Gooch .. at Pangborn 'til '91 or so he hopes.  HOPE THOSE SORES GO AWAY ..SOONII Lisa (at SUNY Oswego) Yesterdays ClassHied was supposed to read "do you like Italian Food."By the way, do you like roses? Eric Allison, I know little things mean a lot. Uke bring­ing me a Mountain Dew before a long night and being at your room 10 minutes ear1ier. I Love You, Pete  
IF YOU FOUND A CAMERA AT JPW, IrS MY MOTHER'S. PLEASE RETURN AT LEAST THE FILM. 419 ST.ED'S (£2742). THANKS.  FOR SALE ROUNDTRIP TICKET SOUTHBEND TO MIAMI 3-10 TO 3-21 $174 CALL 287-3428  NEED RIDE to and from GreencasUe to Depauw for weekend of Feb. 27. Will share driving and expenses. HELP!! x1155 -David.  eat a typical Third Worid dinner of rice and bread. Uke in real me, people's prosperity at the Banquet will depend on the luck of the draw. Please come join us in this teaming experience.  Dawn, Well, you had a hell of a weekend, and I hope I helped, at least a little. Re­member, a hug and a personal are guar­ranteed to make your day, so smile Ill -the man across campus.  GOING SOUTH FOR BREAK? NEED A RIDETOTHEGULFCOAST. WILL PAY. CALL GEOFFREY AT X1929.  

February 24, 1988 The Observer page 11 


Sports Wednesday 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Men's Tennis vs. PURDUE 
Thursday Baseball at Duke Men's Tennis vs. COLORADO Women's Basketball at Valparaiso 
Friday Baseball at Duke (2) Hockey at Lake Forest Women's Swimming at Midwest Inde­pendent Championships (Chicago) SMC Basketball at Aquinas College 
Saturday 

Men's Basketball vs. VANDERBILT Hockey vs. LAKE FOREST Indoor Track hosts ALEX WILSON IN­
VITATIONAL Men's Tennis vs. CINCINNATI and BOWLING GREEN Women's Tennis at Miami (Ohio) with Illinois Baseball at Wake Forest Wrestling at Marquette Fencing at Great lakes Championships Women's Swimming at Midwest Inde­pendent Championships 
Sunday Bengal Bouts Women's Basketball vs. DEPAUL Men's Tennis at Ohio State Women's Tennis at Miami (Ohio) with Illinois Baseball at Wake Forest Women's Swimming at Midwest Inde­pendent Championships 
1 Playoff Brackets 

Others receiving votes: Florida 111, Georgetown 64, Southern Methodist 63, Xavier (Ohio) 31, Illinois 23, Indiana 17, Rhode Island 17, Texas-EI Paso 14, 
1936 Ivan Brown & Alan Washbond, 2-Man Bobsled 
Kansas St. 12, Arkansas-Little Rock B, VIllanova B, Virginia Tech B. Cal-Santa Barbara 5, DePaul 5, Kansas 4, Arkansas 3, Auburn 3, Marshall 2, Boise 
1964 Terry McDermott, 500m Speed Skating 
State 1, Iowa State 1, No. Carolina-Charlotte 1. 
1968 Peggy Fleming, Figure Skating 
lnterhall Hockey 
*1924-1984 Winter Games; U.S. has never been shut out 
INTERHALL HOCKEY STANDINGS Gold Dlvlelon 
Source: The Sporting News 
W L T 

Scoreboard 
Basketball 

Men Notre Dame 59, Dayton 47 Notre Dame 66, Creighton 54 
Women Notre Dame 87, Cleveland State 69 Notre Dame 79, Marquette 69 
Hockey Michigan-Dearborn 3, Notre Dame 1 Michigan-Dearborn 6, Notre Dame 4 
Wrestling Central Michigan 27, Notre Dame 12 Indiana 30, Notre Dame 10 
Swimming 

Men Notre Dame wins MCC conference champi­onship 
Women Notre Dame wins MCC conference champi­onship 
Tennis 

Men Northwestern 8, Notre Dame 1 Iowa 7, Notre Dame 2 Miami (Ohio) 6, Notre Dame 3 
Women Wisconsin 8, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame 9, Furman 0 
Fencing 

Men Notre Dame 24, Purdue 3 Illinois 15, Notre Dame 12 
t : I : II : ~£ I • : I : : 
Women's lnterhall 
FINAL WOMEN'S IH BASKETBALL STANDINGS 
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Pasquerilla West Lyons Lewis  B 6 6  0 2 2  1.000 .750 .750  2 2  
Breen-Phillips Badin  4 4  4 4  .500 .500  4 4  
Pasquerilla East Farley Howard  3 2 2  5 6 6  .375 .250 .250  5 6 6  
Walsh  1  7  .125  7  

Men's lnterhall basketball playoff brackets for A and B leagues 
Women's Basketball 
Through Tuesday  
PLAYER  G-S  MIN-AVO  FG-FOA  PCT 3PTF0-3PTFOA FT..fTA  
Heidi Bunek  23-23  698-30  183-292  .627  o-o  62-101  
Sandy Bolham  23-23  609-26  141-237  .595  o-o  73-94  
Dlondra Toney  15-14  450-30  61-127  .480  o-o  30-42  
Lisa Kuhns  23-7  486-20  80-175  .457  41-96  17-19  
Karen Robinson  23-23  5:~5-23  59-116  .509  Q-1  45-56  
Annie Schwartz  12-Q  155-13  30-51  .588  0-1  10-14  
Mary Gavin  23-23  784-34  47-111  .423  0-6  35-60  
Sara Llebscher  21-2  348-17  36-70  .514  Q-1  28-35  
Krissl Davis  21-Q  276-13  26-52  .500  o-o  11-20  
Cathy Emigholz  18-Q  146-8  15-30  .500  o-o  6-19  
Carol Elliott  11-Q  86-6  3-7  .429  o-o  7-12  
Kathy Barron  13-Q  65-5  2-10  .200  Q-1  7-9  
NOTRE DAME  23-23  4600-40  683-1278  .534  41-106  331-481  
OPPONENTS  23-23  4600-40  5112-1507  .393  45-136  250-386  

It's your birthday! Happy 19th! 
Love, Vern, Carey, 
Kim, 

&Anne 
PCT .614 
.777 
.714 .895 .804 .714 
.583 .800 
.550 .316 
.583 
.778 
.688 .648 

AP Top 20 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-16-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
are Italicized. 
1. Temple (44) 22-1 2. Purdue(tO) 22-2 3. Arizona (3) 25-2 4. Oklahoma (5) 24-2 
5. Duke (1) 20-3 
6. Pittsburgh 19-3 7. Michigan 21-4 
B. Nevada-Las Vegas 23-3 
9. No. Carolina 20-4 10. Syracuse 20-6 
11. Brigham Young 21-2 
12. Kentucky 18-5 
13. Iowa 16-7 14. Bradley 19-4 15. Missouri 17-6 16. Wyoming 20-5 
17. Vanderbilt 17-6 
1B. No. Carolina St. 1B-6 
19. 
Loyola (CaL) 22-3 

20. 
Georgia Tech 19-6 


1,231 1,1B5 1,114 1,110 
1,001 930 B31 754 74B 671 669 
437 
404 356 262 252 


Only One Gold Medal
250 
232 225 147 

1924 Charles Jewtraw, 500m Speed Skating 
Grace 5 0 0 Morrissey 3 2 0 Dillon 3 2 1 Off Campus 2 1 1 
Woman's Top 20 
St Ed'so1-toly Cross 2 2 0 Keenan 0 3 1 Flenner 0 5 1 AP Top Twenty 
Blue Dlvtelon The Top Twenty college women's bask teams in 
W L T The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes In 5 0 0 parentheses, this season's records and total points. 4 1 0 Points based on 20-19-tB-17 etc. Notre Dame op­3 2 0 ponents are Italicized. 2 2 0 2 2 0 0 4 0 5 
1. Iowa (60) 22-Q 1,33B 2. Auburn (2) 25-1 1,179 3. Tennessee 23-2 1,107 4. Texas 24-2 1060 5. Louisiana Tech 22-2 966 6. Rutgers 20-3 932 7. Ohio State 19-4 B54 B. Stanford 23-1 B07 
9. VIrginia 21-3 737 
10. Mississippi 21-4 680 
11. Washington 19-3 601 
12. Long Beach St. 17-5 554 13. Maryland 19-5 499 14. Montana 23-Q 436 15. Georgia 19-7 303 16. Southern Cal 16-6 299 17. James Madison 22-3 244 lB. New Mexico St. 21-2 144 
19. Stephen F. Austin 22-4 121 20. Clemson 19-6 68 
Others receiving votes: LaSalle 34, Nebraska 34, DePau/33, Nevada-Las Vegas 29, Wake Forest 22, Western Kentucky B, New Ot1eans 6, Louisiana St. 4, Mlssourl4, Montana St. 3, Penn State 3, Houston 2, Notre Dema 2, St. Joseph's 2, Appalachian St. 1, Northeast Louisiana 1, Vanderblk 1. 
Winter Olympics 

Alumni Cavanaugh Pangborn Sarin Stanford Fisher Zahm 
REB AVO A 199 8.7 18 187 8.1 22 69 4.6 39 61 2.7 26 28 1.2 67 33 2.8 6 63 2.7 202 56 2.7 35 71 3.4 15 36 2.0 2 5 0.5 16 7 0.5 3 908 39.5 451 7611 33.4 345 
Today's Events 
Nordic Competition Team 3x10 
ST TP AVO 39 428 18.6 

Women's Giant Slalom 
15 355 15.4 26 152 10.1 

Women's Figure Skating 
24 218 9.5 28 163 7.1 
Short Track 
2 70 5.8 77 129 5.6 13 100 4.8 
Hockey 
10 63 3.0 
3 36 2.0 
4 13 1.2 
1 11 0.8 

ABC Coverage 
242 1738 75.8 

8:30 to 11:00 p.m., 11:30 to Midnight. 
278 1479 64.3 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tQ qur Qfflces and start wqrklng Qn yqur newspaper. 
·Group Charters & Tours ·Card Tables 
• 
Restrooms • Radios 

• 
Your DESIGNATED Driver •Tape Players 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 

401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE Adame Dlvtalon 
w  L  T  GF  GA  Pte.  
Montreal  33  20  10  229  199  76  
Boston  35  22  5  237  194  75  
Buffalo  26  26  9  211  233  Bt  
Hartford  26  28  7  187  201  59  
Quebec  24  32  4  213  232  52  
Petrick Dlvlal on  
Philadelphia  32  22  7  221  214  71  
NY Islanders  30  23  8  244  211  68  
Washington  30  25  6  209  1B4  66  
New Jersey  27  30  5  216  235  59  
Pittsburgh  25  2B  9  235  250  59  
NY Rangers  24  29  B 233  226  56  

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvleton 
w L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 35 19 8 2B3 219 7B Calgary 35 20 7 294 237 77 Winnipeg 27 25 9 231 229 63 
Los Angeles 23 38 5 239 264 51 Vancouver 21 35 7 216 247 49 Norrie Dtvlelon Detroit 31 22 B 249 211 70 St. Louis 2B 2B 5 212 213 61 Chicago 24 31 6 212 247 54 Toronto 18 35 10 224 264 46 Minnesota 17 35 9 1B5 282 43 
Tueedey'e RHulte Hartford 3, Boston 2 Philadelphia 11, Detroit 6 
Winnipeg 4, Plttsbuurgh 3, OT Montreal 3, Quebec 1 NY Islanders B, Vancouver 1 Edmonton 6, St. Louis 4 






Wrigley may be lit this year 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -A City Council committee on Tuesday ap­proved an ordinance drawn up by Mayor Eugene Sawyer's staff that would allow the Chicago Cubs to play night baseball at Wrigley Field this season. 
Opponents of night games at the North Side field, the only major-league stadium without lights for night baseball, were quick to attack the proposed or­dinance as a betrayal of com­munity interests. 
"It's just what the city would pass if it doesn't want to com­mit to anything," said anti­lights activist Mike Quigley. "It contains no specific measures for limiting impact on the neighborhood. It men­tions no dollars for creating new parking spaces or cleanup services." 
The City Council's commit­tee on energy, environmental protection and public utilities passed the proposal on a vote of 7-2, but four aldermen on the committee did not vote. 
The ordinance was to go before the full city council on Wednesday, but Quigley said he did not know if a vote was likely before Thursday. 
The proposal by the mayor's office was less stringent than one offered earlier by Alder­man Bobby Rush, which would have imposed an 11 p.m. cur­few for night games at Wrigley Field and required the Cubs management to provide addi­
tional off -street parking  near  
the ballpark.  
Sawyer's  proposed  or­ 

dinance dispensed with the cur­few. It would allow eight night games during the regular 1988 National League baseball season and 18 during the 1989 season. 
"Since the ordinance con­tains no appropriations lan­guage, its provisions are basi­cally unenforceable," said Quigley, a member of Citizens United for Baseball in the Sun­shine (CUBS). "It's a living, breathing, walking skeleton." 
The ordinance's committee sponsor, Alderwoman Marlene Carter, however, defended what she called its "bare­bones" approach because it al­lows for remedies to be developed as the need arises. 
Quigley and another CUBS leader, Paul Kendall, also said the ordinance approved by the committee Tuesday would per­mit beer sales at Wrigley Field to continue through the seventh inning of night games, or 9:20 
p.m. -later than they and other neighborhood residents have recommended 

Malone still a Steeler, for now 

Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -The Pit­tsburgh Steelers tried to deal troubled quarterback Mark Malone to the Indianapolis Colts, but backed away from demands that they include receiver Louis Lipps, accor­ding to published reports. 
The Fort Wayne News­Sentinal said the Colts first balked at the Steelers' proposal to swap Malone for Jack Trudeau, the Colts' No. 2 draft pick in 1986. 
The News-Sentinal and the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette re­ported that the Steelers said no when the Colts offered Trudeau and safety Leonard Coleman for Malone and Lipps. 
Neither team would confirm the story, and Colts Coach Ron Meyer said "we have no inten­tion of trading Jack Trudeau at this point in his career. 
"We think he is one of the outstanding young developing quarterbacks in the league." 
"I'm disappointed," the Post-Gazette quoted an uniden­tified Steelers official as saying. "The deal would have been good for us. And it prob­ably would have been good for Mark." 
Trade talks involving the quarterbacks began during the week preceding the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala., Jan. 23, when Meyer asked Steelers coaches if Malone was avail­able, the Pittsburgh newspaper said. 
The Colts lost 11 straight 
games in 1986 with Trudeau at quarterback for injured starter Gary Hogeboom. They im­proved to 5-3 with him starting in place of Hogeboom last season. 
Trudeau completed 55.9 per­cent of his passes and had a passer rating of 75.4 with only six interceptions. 
In 1987, his second season as the Steelers' starting quarter­back, Malone compiled the NFL's worst passing record. He threw 11 interceptions and only one touchdown in his last seven games, frequently drawing boos from spectators in Three Rivers Stadium. He passed for only six touchdowns all season. 
The Observer 1 John Studebaker 

Gary Sass of Stanford A2 drives In for a layup during lnterhall action earlier this year. Bob Mitchell looks at the men's playoff situation on the back page. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: ASSISTANT PRODUCTION MANAGER 
For further information contact Bernadette Shilt&'Melissa Warnke at The Observer (239-5303) 

lnterhall 
continued from page 16 

team played well, but Ray 
stood above the rest." 

The Studs ensured their vic­
tory with outstanding free 
throw shooting at the end of the 
game. Perozek believes that 
his team has a legitimate shot 
at the crown if it can shed their 
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde image. 
Stanford will play the winner of Holy Cross and Morrissey on February 28. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 



The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Features Editor Assistant Arts Editor 
For further Information contact Beth Healy at The Observer (239-5303) 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 



AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 
directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall 
Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M. Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 Tickets are available at Students & Semor Citizens $4 Washington Hall Ticket Office on W9d., Thurs., Sun. only. Weekdays Noon to 6 P.M. MasterCard/Visa orders 239-5957 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24 
12:00 p.m. Conversation with PETER MICHAELSON Library Lounge 
8:00 p.m. JOHN ENGELS reading 
Ubrary Auditorium Reception following in Ubrary Lounge 
All events are free of charge and everyone is welcome Sponsored by Student Union Board 

The Observer page 13 
Freshman surprise 
Wenger key to Irish tennis 
By GEORGE TRAVERS all of his losses coming in three experience under pressure sit­set matches. In his last match, uations."
Sports Writer 
he took Miami of Ohio's Lats 
The Notre Dame men's ten­Nordmark to match point Coach Bayliss is impressed nis team continues its thirteen­before losing 4-6, 6-2, 7-5. at how well Wenger has fit in game home stand this week as Wenger has helped set a suc­and particularly likes the atti­they play host to Purdue today cessful pace for the freshmen tude he takes onto the court. at 3:00 and Colorado on on the squad. His play, along Thursday at 5:00. All action with that of David Kuhlman "Ryan's got as good an atti­will take place at the Eck Ten­and Paul Odland, has provided tude as I've ever seen," said nis Pavillion. the extra spark the tennis team Bayliss. "He's extremely posi­
Mter a frustrating weekend, has needed to play on a higher tive yet intensely competitive in which the Irish lost badly to level. It is only midseason and which is a rare combination. three of the top schools in the there are no guarantees, but He's an aggressive player with 
country, the team looks to Wenger has certainly over­an outstanding backhand. I see return to the winning form it come the freshmen anxiety a lot of potential." possessed earlier in the season. that so often affects athletes. 
Bayliss also is optimistic

Despite these defeats, Notre "It has been a learning expe­rience for me," said Wenger. about his team's chances today Dame men's tennis is a sport 
on the rise. The team is playing "Mter jumping to a 5-0 start, and tomorrow. 
as a cohesive unit due to anum­last weekend really woke us up. 
Last year, Colorado (2-0)

ber of factors. Senior Captain I was also 5-0 before this beat the Boilermakers in aDan Walsh is becoming an ex­weekend. Losing all three close 5-4 meet. Both teams arecellent motivator, and number­matches in the third set was considered favorites over theone singles player Brian tough, but I feel like it will help Irish. Although many teamsKalbas is playing at a level me in the long run. 
would still be drained from aknown only to the best in col­"Right now our teams big­tough weekend such as last
lege tennis. Probably one of the gest weakness is the ability to weekend, Bayliss feels his Irish most pleasant surprises has pull out the close matches. 
are upbeat and loose. The only 
been the contribution made by That's partially due to the lack injured Notre Dame player isthe freshmen, led by Ryan of experience that myself and junior Dave Reiter, who is outWenger. the other freshmen have. As indefinitely due to a foot injury. 
When first-year head coach the year goes on, I will get some Bob Bayliss came to Notre lege basketball." 
Dame, he knew he had a solid 
squad of returning players. While he works on those little 


Singleton
One of the biggest question things, Rivers' heir-apparent is 
St. continued from page 16
marks was recruiting. This giving Irish fans a glimpse of Brian Kalbas, the number-one player on the Notre Dame men's worry about the little things the future with some impres­
year's crop of freshmen were 
tennis team, prepares to serve. Kalbas leads the 5-3 Irish against that you never worried about sive outings. Monday against
an unknown quantity. 
Purdue tonight at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. George Travers features Ryan Wenger, out of Novelty, in high school," adds Singleton. Creighton, Singleton made the 
Ryan Wenger and previews today's action at right. 
The Observer 
Typesetting Service is accepting applications for the following positions: 
CONTROLLER DORM REPRESENTATIVES ACCOUNTS MANAGER ACCOUNTS PAYABLE I RECEIVABLE CLERK 
Applications should include a personal statement and brief resume. Deadline for applications is Friday, February 26. 
For further information contact Chris Hasbrook at The Observer (239-5303) 
our education will not end with graduation. As a grad·· uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Spring grarJuates apply now for positions available 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit 
package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo 
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital. Personnel Services, 
Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street, 
Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist HosRital 
A MAYO HlUNDATION HOSI'ITAI. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
"Things like learning not to most of his little time on the
Ohio, has had no problem 
turn your head and get beat by court (six minutes) to tally five 
making the transition from 
your man on defense, things points, four assists and two
high school to college tennis. 
like boxing out. Little things steals.
He is 5-3 in singles action, with 
like that are what count. in col-"Our MVP tonight was 


CopSes 
Great copies. Great people. 
SC\ 

18187 State Road 23 271-0398 
;·--·-NilAVE.-APTS~--l
I  l~arly Bird Special  f  
II2  Now· renting for Fall Bedrooms completely furnished  II  
I Sign up before break and  Call  1  

I receive a lOo/o discount 234-6647 I 


~~:!:~.~-b_l-~~:!!.2.7!_~~~~-~!.~..:L.J 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6 7:30pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 tor Building Improvement Fund) 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS, WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: (219) 284-9190 
Timmy Singleton,'' said Phelps 
after the game. "I think that 
was the birth of Singleton's con­
fidence. He did some things for 
us to get the lead that made it 
impossible for them to come 
back." 
Just a week earlier against Rutgers he earned his first start in place of an injured Rivers and dished out 12 as­sists. Against UCLA on Valen­tine's Day, Singleton found himself in an unusual situation for any Notre Dame player over the past four years-­replacing Rivers two minutes into the game. The NBC cameras, a national audience and the _Bruins' own star guard, Pooh Richardson, were watch­ing to see if the 6-1 freshman guard would fold. 
What they didn't know about was Singleton's quiet confi­dence which says 'I can do the job as well as anybody.' 
"No doubt about it-­anybody," says Singleton. "I go up against David everyday and I know David is the top point guard in the country, so I feel I can play against anybody in the nation." 
Tim Singleton has come a long way from the New Or­leans' playground leagues, where he practiced jump shots until they were hidden by early evening shadows. Now he faces basketball under another the shadow, the one cast by Rivers. But he knows his moment in the sun is not far away. 
"I know my time will come," says Singleton. "When it does, I'll be ready." 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


r-----------~-------­-
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1988 


Olympics a Soviet Bloc party 
Sports Briefs · 
Associated Press biathlon, adding that gold to his Blair's gold in the 500 meters 
CALGARY -Flying Finn Matti Nykanen and Frank-Peter Roetsch of East Ger­many became double gold medalists, while B&B spun a sultry dance to victory at the Winter Olympics' Soviet bloc party Tuesday night. 
The beer from Bonnie Blair's victory bash hadn't even gone flat before America's day of glory turned into another day of gold for the East. 
Natalia Bestemianova and AndreiBukin, three-time world champions from the Soviet Union, won the ice dancing competition. With Be­stemianova displaying a wide range of theatrical expres­sions, B&B skated to an easy victory over Soviets Marina Klimov and Sergei Ponomarenko. Tracy Wilson and Robert McCall of Canada won the bronze. 
The volatile Matti Nukes, who already won the 70-meter jump, won the 90 with a hill record jump of 118.5 meters, becoming the first double jumping gold medalist at an Olympics. 
"1 knew I'd won after the first jump," saidNykanen, who won the 90-meter jump at 
Sarajevo four years ago and can get a third this time in the 90-meter team competition Wednesday. 
Roo~~woo~~~~~ 
20K victory, staging the first Olympic sweep of the two indi­vidual biathlon events. Soviets finished 2-3. 
"Mter the relay, we'll drink much more beer," Roetsch said, looking forward to the prospect of a third gold medal. "Hopefully, we'll have a reason to celebrate." 
Speed skater Yvonne van Gennip of Holland won the wo­men's 3,000-meter race in world-record time, and East Germans finished 2-3. Karin Kania of East Germany made 
a painful bid to become the 
most successful woman speed 
skater in Olympic history, but 
she finished more than six 
seconds behind van Gennip and 
in fourth. 

"Yesterday, Bonnie Blair 
beat them," van Gennip said of 
the East Germans. "I said to 
her, 'I'll try tomorrow.' So I did 
it." 

The Soviets now have a leading 22 medals, East Ger­many 17. The Soviets have eight golds to seven for East 
Germany, and the two 
countries have won 39 of 90 
medals offered so far. 
Monday night, slipped late in the 3,000, then stood up on the last lap, running out of steam and obviously in pain. 
She has won six Olympics medals, including one in 1980 and four in 1984. Kania cur­rently is tied for most medals with Lidija Skoblikova of the Soviet Union. 
Van Gennip's time was 4 minutes, 11.94 seconds. Andrea Ehrig was second by .15 seconds, and Gabi Zange won the bronze for East Germany. 
America's best hope in the biathlon, Josh Thompson of Gunnison, Colo., was a disap­pointment again, unable to add to the U.S. medal count that Blair pushed to four when she won the 500. 
Thompson, who was 25th in the 20 kilometers, was 27th on Tuesday after missing five tar­gets. 
"I've bought myself another four years with these two bad races," Thompson said. "I can't remember two races I've had so bad back to back ... and I don't want to either." 
The 90-meter jump, originally scheduled for Satur­day, was delayed twice this week by winds, which died down Tuesday. Nykanen, who said the waiting was making him jumpy, followed up on his record jump with a second-round effort of 107 meters after 

Rev. Edward A. Malloy will receive the silver anniversary award of the National Association of Basket­ball Coaches of the United States. The award, which is cosponsored by the Balfour Company, goes to a former basketball player who has distinguished himself in later years. -The Observer 
The Women's Soccer Club will have practice tonight for anyone interested in participating in the Saint Mary's indoor tournament Saturday. Meet at the Loftus Center. Questions, call Susan at 4541. -The Observer 
Rugby Club practice continues tonight from 5:30-7 
p.m. in the Loftus Center. Old and new players are reminded that the first match is a week from Saturday, March 5. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will practice tonight at 7 p.m. at JACC Courts 1 and 2. All players should remember to bring $10 to cover expenses for the March 5 white ball match at Michigan. -The Observer 
No. 1 Temple edged West Virginia 62-61 Tuesday night at Morgantown, W.Va., on Mike Vreeswyk's two free""' throws with six seconds left. The victory clinched the Owl's second straight Atlantic 10 regular-season title. Vreeswyk scored 22 points, including five 3-pointers. Temple is now 23-1, 15-0 in the conference -Associated Press 
Men's BookstoreBasketball sign-ups will be Sunday, February 28 from 12-4 p.m. at Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy Hall. All students and faculty members are invited to play. There is a $5 entry fee. Any questions, call Mike at 1962. -The Observer 
The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip to Lake Forest Friday, February 26. The bus leaves at 1 p.m. and returns at 1 a.m. (after game). Cost is $17, $15 for club members. -The Observer 
NVA sets deadlines 
Special to The Observer 

Non-varsity athletics has an­
nounced the following entry 
deadlines: 
Today: 

•Lacrosse 
tournament. En­ter by halls. Roster minimum is 15 players, maximum is 25. A $25 entry is due with rosters. 

March 2: 


•Sneaker 
broomball. A one day open tournament will be held March 5 at the JACC ice rink. 


NVA also has pledge cards available for the Century Club until March 2. Members fill out a pledge card at NVA, pick an aerobic activity, choose a goal to work toward and complete a log book. Free t-shirts awarded for working out. 
Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non-
Bookstore 
continued from page 16 

Half the fun of Bookstore is the names. Dukies can have their fun at Blue Devils' games. Purdue can have its Nude Olympics. We've got Bookstore Basketball and there is no col­lege in the nation which has a basketball tournament even close to it in talent or tradition. Bookstore players of years past may forget that they lost 21-5 in the first round, but they'll remember their team name for years. 
The challenge is to keep the names creative without getting out of hand. So be creative, clever, and funny, but don't be offensive or you'll probably get turned away at the registration desk. 
!AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~ 

K~~.a~~m~~~~~t;~~~;a;rt;in;g~~;i;n;tw~a;s;~;w;e;r;~;·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
contact sports. Forms and more information are avail­able in the NVA office. 
Students, faculty and staff may rent cross-country ski equipment from NVA, Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, inside the golf pro shop entrance. Check outs are available from 4:30-5:30 p.m. Thursday­Saturday and from 12-1 p.m. Saturday. Check in takes place 4:30-5:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday and 12-1 p.m. Saturday. 
Rates are $3 overnight, $5 for two nights, $6 for three nights and $2 for Saturday noon-5: 30 p.m. 
The Joyce center weight room is available for student use. The hours are: 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and6:30-10:30p.m. Mon­day through Friday and 1-6 
p.m. Sunday. 


D I s T I N G u I s H E D 
s T u D E N T 
A w A R D 
Once again the Notre Dame Alumni Association will ~e accepting nominations from February 19 to Fe?r~ary . 28 for thezr annual Distinguished Student Award. The Dzstmguzshed Student Award was created to honor an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following criteria: 
1. 
Service to Notre Dame 

2. 
Service to the Community 

3. 
Good Academic Standing 


Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association of!ice (2nd floor of ~he Administration Building), University Ministry offices (Badm Hall & Memonal Library), and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 29th. 


FUZZY NAVELS 75~ 
T~~un<J,. 
OPEN NOON-2Pm 
LENTEN LUNCH SPECIALS Zl 1.[2 I?EQUl~ED 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF 
BARTENDER 
FOR THE 1988-89 SCHOOL YEAR NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 

MUST BE 21 BY SEPT. 1, 

1988 DEADLINE IS MARH 11, 1988 
22 Mother of  
Zeus  
24 Thomas the  
clockmaker  
25  - Khan  
28  Best of films  
30 Adjust the  
clock  
33 Mention  
36 Decorous  
38 Movie dog  
39 Board game  
41  A Johnson  
42  Facing toward  1...-...L...--....L.......L..­ 
44  a glacierFit nautically  ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  02/24/88  
46 Inward  
48 Whirl  8 Wine expert  
49  "-a jolly  9 Guiding light  
good ... "  10 Jannlngs of  
50  Creeks  old  films  
52 Somme  11  Value  
summers  12 Mouthward  
54 Earth circle  13 Ram's dam  
 
58  Condiment  17 Necessary  
 
62 Tel  - 21  Adherents:  
 
63 Small Eng.  suff.  
 
sheep  23 Magnani and  
 
65 "Kiss Me  -"  Karenlna  
 
66 Within: pref.  25 Macaws  
 
67 Be In store for  26 Beau  - 
68 Special person  27 River In song  
69 Appear  29 Land  
70 Desires  measures  
31  Tillable soli  
DOWN  32 Religious  02/24/BB  
1 Cuts down  contribution  45 Prescription  56 "The  - of  
2 Roster  34 NY waterway  phrase  Spring"  
3 Church part  35 Public  47 Rostrums  57  Undressed  
4  "-rain  nor  storehouse  51  Fr. river  59  Cygnus  
snow  .••"  37 Afr. rulers  53 Resort In  60  Etats-­ 
5 Deranged  40 Exchange  Vermont  61  Attention­ 
6 Border lake  43 Egyptian  54 Shark  getting sound  
7 Mortgages  port  55 Author Hunter  64 Singer Jones  


Wednesday, February 24, 1988 The Observer page 15 




Campus 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
12:15 p.m. SMC Center for Spirituality Signals of Grace Lecture, Dr. Ann Clark on learning, Stapleton Lounge. 3 p.m. Tennis vs. Purdue, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
4 p.m. English Dept. Lecture, "Strategies of Silence and Speech in the Wife of Bath's Recital," by Prof. Shiela Delany, Simon Fraser University, Canada, li­brary lounge. 4:20p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Optical Properties of Semiconductor Microstruc­tures: Confiniing the Exiton," by Kathy Kash, Bell Communications Research, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
6:45 p.m. SMC Sexuality Education Council and SMC Peacemakers Lecture, "Sexuality: On Being Gay," by Patricia Rissmeyer and Mary Feeley, SMC, Stapleton Lounge. 7 p.m. American Society of Civil Engineers presents Career Night with Dr. Lloyd Ketchum, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:30 p.m. Natural Family Planning Class Lecture part I, by Janey Bettcher, Executive Director of the South Bend National Family Planning Program, Room 220 Hayes-Healy Center. 7:30p.m. Anti-Apartheid Network presents Poetry from South Africa, by Palesa Makhele, Soweto and Goshen College, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 8 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival presents John Engels, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Gyro Lasagna Pasta Bar  Philly Steak Sandwich Baked Fish BPT Potato Deli Bar  

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
,. f , , . ' ~ . I ' ·' I\ ) f--.
/ .. \' ·~//'; L.~~~::::... -~-'v ..... /,...­
.... ~ -"--, I ~ '· "' ,>
·~-:r~ . .,_ -·~ 
"""' 


Comics 
Bloom County 
IM PANICKY ANI? 
I'!I?TTJ!?fl€.1?... EMtJTIONIII.LY I'll€ M€N IUY W08/Jl.Y ... 
Calvin and Hobbes 
CAN 'fOlJ 8£L\t'IE 
li, IK'£8£5 ? ~~ ~0 01\D ~K£D Ra$~LiN TO BMN-SIT \JS! 
OOtl T DIIVI DRUllll 01 RID( WltlU*'fOttl WHO DOl\ 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

/?CWI/H!Ie... HOWcVcf?., I'V€ Mfl/1€ 
I NOW CIIN FIIC£ 7H~
m 1lf€ PtV5 5tl1c, 
OPI?/IH ... II &fANT !Jf((ffiK7H/?C)(/6H: 
5HOCKfN& Ff/CT 1HIIT 
I 
51/t.L.Y. . 

T\-IE.R£:5 J\lst ONt. 11\I~G SlOP BEING SIU..l 10 \X). WElL W..ll OOR-Cf>.L'JIN. W\\ER£.'5 5tL'Jts TO A\JS\I(f>.L\~ Ro'Sf>.l'ttF l C.Ut-\B 1\\C#JQ\T iOIJ 
IN. SAlI) 5\-IE 'tlft..S 1-\t.R£. 
"Just look at this room ­body segments everywhere!" 
·-.. 


Wednesday 
& 

Thursday 8 & 10 p.m. $2.00 
Natalie Wood 
Cushing Auditorium
Richard Beymer 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Milne or King 5 Dissolve 9 Sleuth Wolfe 
13 Banishment 14· Oratorio song 15 Gen. Bradley 16 Stop for 
cruise ships 18 Oscar winner 

Moreno 19 Possessions 20 Gave the right 1--+---+---+-­







Sports

Wednesday, February 24, 1988 page 16 
Morrissey, Sorin upset in men's IH playoffs 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 

Sometimes things work out the way they're supposed to and sometimes they don't. This legendary saying best charac­terizes the men's Interhall bas­ketball playoffs so far. The playoffs have been the setting for a series of upsets as well as lopsided victories. 
In the A league, the Stanford A-1 squad, which was 7-0 in the regular season, confidently defeated Holy Cross (5-2), 50­
40. The Studs opened up the 
.. 
game in the second half with a wide-open offense and a stingy defense. Stanford capitalized 
Tim Singleton (10) makes a strong Inside move against Creighton Monday night. Singleton has been making the most out of his sparse playing 
In perhaps what is the big­gest upset of the playoffs to date, Keenan A (5-2) stunned the previously undefeated Mor­rissey team. Keenan utilized its "steel curtain" defense to shock the Manorites, 62-58. The contest was a see-saw battle throughout. 
Keenan led at halftime 27-19 yet momentarily succumbed to the pressure defense of Morris­sey, allowing the Manorites to close the gap to four entering the fourth quarter. However, Keenan would not be denied the victory, holding off Morrissey to the very end. Keenan's vic­tory was highlighted by the ex­on the outstanding play of John Wassel and Dan Niedemyer. 

"John Wassel dominated the offensive and defensive boards throughout the entire game," said coach AI Martin. "He came through in the clutch and that is the most important thing. 
"Dan Niedemyer is the point guard and he is our leader. He hit key free throws for us down the stretch." 
Stanford exhibited excep­tional quickness coupled with discipline that enabled them to down the Hogs. They also bor­rowed Dean Smith's four-cor­ner offense to seal the victory. 

cellent play of Will Ferrence keep getting key buckets we and Gary Anderson. have a good chance," said 
"Will was extremely effec­Yoon. tive from the outside and that In the loser's bracket of A­helped our entire team," said league playoffs, Stanford A-2 coach Tom Yoon. "Gary An­conquered the two-time derson powered inside on both defending champion, Sorin, by ends of the court and was es­eight points. This do-or-die con­sential in our winning." test matched two teams with 
Yoon attributed his team's identical records of 6-1. The success to their great defense, Studs took an early lead and especially stopping the inside never looked back. Stanford's game of Morrissey. Yoon's impressive victory was headed team now sets its sights on by Ray Flannery. Stanford whom they lost to in "Ray was the key to our win­the regular season. He believes ning this game,'' said Studs' co­that his team has a good chance ach Chris Perozek. "Our entire to win the championship. 
see INTERHALL, page 12

"If we keep playing well and 
Singleton shines under Rivers' shadow 
By BRIAN O'GARA didate David Rivers. Though the highly touted freshman has 
Assistant Sports Editor 
averaged only eight minutes on 

How does it feel to be in the the court per game this season, middle of a three-ring circus? he has made the most of his Ask Notre Dame freshman time in practice going up point guard Tim Singleton. against the master. 
When the Irish traveled to "I realize that David is the Duke earlier this month, all-American, and everything Singleton was the first player is all David right now," says to get dressed in the Notre the New Orleans native. "I just Dame locker room. Mistake. have to wait my turn. Right 
"Coach Phelps said 'Are you now I'm adjusting to it, but it's ready to go shoot? Then go out tough because in high school there and let the students get you're the top player and here on you,' " recalls Singleton of you come in and you're just the start of his Sunday after­playing a little. But my main noon in Durham, N.C. job is to be ready when they 
"So I walk out there thinking call on me, and I'm learning a 'students are just students and lot playing against David." I'm gonna go out and see At Carver High School in what's up.' Well, the whole New Orleans, Singleton used crowd starts pointing at me and his impressive quickness and yelling 'you, you, you' and an exciting transition game to throwing tennis balls back and average 21.4 points a game and forth. It was crazy. I'm think­lead his team to the state finals ing 'What am I doing here?' I in his senior campaign. At one look back and none of the point during that season he players are behind me. For a tallied a school-record six con­minute I was ready to go back secutive triple-doubles. in before the rest of the team Then came the college started to come out." recruiters and the choice-­
Welcome to college basket­Notre Dame. And consequently ball. came the challenge of adjust­
Singleton is actually wel­ing to a higher level of compe­comed to college basketball tition. every day in practice, where "In college you've got to he faces the formidable task of defending All-America can-see SINGLETON, page 13 

Bookstore Basketball avoids the numbers game 
What's in a naJDe? A lot of numbers were last screened the list, it will be passed on to the Office fensive names presented in the past. April. of Student Activities for final approval." In response to those who may complain that this 
Numbers like Team No. 275, Team No. 595, and So while you're sitting around a case on Saturday is still censorship, only by the commissioners in­so on, as over 100 numbered teams which dotted night trying to come up with a name for your stead of Student Activites, the method chosen for the Bookstore Basketball XVI schedule last spring. Bookstore team, keep in mind the ethics which team registration has guaranteed that teams will A decision by the Office of Student Activities to you've studied in Philo class. be able to choose their own name rather than being censor some 100 team names created several games Though "ethical guidelines which govern the assigned a number. If you can't choose a name of anonymity on the courts behind Lyons, the print media" vary from newspaper to newspaper, which is not libelous, racist or malicious, you prob­bookstore and in front of Stepan. Bookstore Basket­ably shouldn't be allowed on a cement court with ball, a bastion of all-weather hoops and creative 
a big ball to throw around. 
Brian
name-development for 16 years, was in danger of When participants go to register on Sunday af­falling to the terrible hammer of censorship. ternoon, the commissioners will review the team

O'Gara 
After 'Da Brothers of Manhood took the Bookstore name quickly and ask for a replacement if they laurels during An Tostal weekend, tournament com­decide that it is too offensive or that it will not be
Irish Items
missioner Steve Wenc swore that he would not go approved by Student Activities. So bring a backup through the censorship hassle again. With team name or two, just in case. sign-ups just four dayS away, Wenc and 1988 com­the basic intent here is for team names to be respec­If the name gets past the commissioners but not missioner Mike Manning have developed a policy table and, more importantly, acceptable to the Of­the S.U.B. Steering Committee or Student Activi­which will serve as a guideline for team names. fice of Student Activities which has ultimate control ties, the commissioners have left themselves a week 
The policy reads as follows: over An Tostal. After all, Bookstore Basketball, buffer to call teams and request new names. 
"When submitting Bookstore Basketball team though it has achieved its own identity and now The plan is not flawless because ethics is often a names, students must select names which conform stretches over a month, is still an An Tostal event personal judgement call, but the commissioners with the ethical guidelines that govern the print like the Mud Pits and SMC Picnic. should be commended for insuring that censorship media regarding libel, obscenity, sexism, racism, This name policy is based on the fear that offen­will not snuff out the opportunity for participants rights of privacy and malicious intent. sive names will once again be presented and the to come up with their own names, even if it is a 
"Prior to the schedule being printed, the list powers-that-be will reject them, assigning numbers second or third choice. should be submitted to the Steering Committee of to teams instead. And that fear is founded on strong the Student Union Board. After this Committee has evidence--there have been some outrageously of-see BOOKSTORE, page 14 





