

Paradise Lost 
~~ 
Variable cloudiness and much cooler today; 40 percent 
f.. ~_,.,.,~~
....~......
chance of showers. High in the r......... ..._, ~-~ 
I •• ' 
mid to upper 40s. Mostly
Pettifer letter 
sunny Thursday. 
c -­
VOL. XXI, NO. 106 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 1988 
. .:t ;¢:~· the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Notre Dame readies for Reagan visit 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI March 4 to coincide with Stamps will also be sold until News Editor Rockne's lOOth birthday, the 3:30p.m. from special booths ceremony was delayed to ac­outside the Alumni-Senior 
Thousands of Rockne stamps commodate Reagan's schedule. Club. have been shipped in for sale, In addition to Reagan, the The stamp is the sixth issued Reagan protesters have made ceremony will include remarks in a Post Office sports series 
' their plans and the Secret Ser­from Postmaster General An­and the second to honor a foot­vice has scoured the campus. thony Frank, former ball player. 
) Everything is set for today's Postmaster General Preston Postal officials expect about unveiling of the Knute Rockne Tisch, Andrew McKenna, vice 10,000 people to buy the stamp commemorative stamp at the chairman of the Notre Dame today, Sniadecki said. The post Joyce ACC. Board of Trustees and Mrs. An­office will place first day can­
President Reagan will be the thony Kochendorfer, one of cellations on any stamp, he principal speaker at the mid­Rockne's daughters. added. day ceremonies. Reagan The stamp, available today portrayed George Gipp in the only on the Notre Dame About 10,000 first-day en­
1940 movie "Knute Rockne -­campus, can be bought at the velopes and message cards will All American," the character Notre Dame post office until be on sale today, said Charles who inspired the movie's most noon and from 1:30 to 5 p.m., Lennon, director of the Alumni 
KNUTE ROCKNE famous line, "Win one for the said Paul Sniadecki, manager Association. First day covers, . Gipper." of retail sales and services of _) Originally scheduled for the South Bend post office. see REAGAN, page 5 
Dancin' Irish to be restructured says committee 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
The Dancin' Irish will no longer exist in its current form, Father Peter Roc­ca, vice president for student services, said Tuesday night. 
The decision was made earlier Tues­day by a board composed of adminis­trators and students, said Dancin' Irish co-captain Cailin Stubbs. 
Rocca said the board decided that "the group as presently constituted is not something that should be continued. 
"It was the consensus of the commit­tee that it was not at all a question of the quality of their performance," said Rocca, but that "there were other is­sues that also needed addressing." 
Rocca said he is scheduled to meet with the co-captains and members of the board Thursday. He said the stu­dent members of the board can present 
Sun worshippers?

the viewpoints of the student body on 


8,000 + tix given out 
By BRADLEY GALKO Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame students were given first priority for tickets to today's ceremonies with President Reagan at the request of the White House and the Univer­sity, said Mike Bobinski, who was in charge of ticket distribution for the event. 
According to Bobinski, ticket manager and assis­tant business manager at 
see TICKETS, page 6 
The Observer I Jim Carroll 

the Dancin' Irish and say whether the Christopher Reardon and Veronica Weadock greet the sunset and more weeks, though, as today's forecast calls for rain and tem­the coming of spring at the New Buffalo municipal beach, 35 miles peratures in the mid-40s. see DANCIN', page 4 northwest of campus. Real sunbathers may have to wait a few 


Class elections all result in runoffs 
(\J (\J

Junior Class (') By REGIS COCCIA Timons received 24.3 percent of 
Sophomore Class ;:::. Assistant News Editor the vote while Pasin garnered
(\J 

Senior 

17.1 percent, according to 
~ 


Class
(\J 

The winners of sophomore, OBUD's results. 
junior and senior class offices Matt Breslin and Bill 
will be determined Thursday in Fitzgerald will face each other 
a run-off election, said John in the run-off for junior class 
Wilson, co-director of Om­president. Fitzgerald received 
budsman, the campus organi-24.8 percent of the votes, and 
o.c. Breslin received 23.4 percent. The run-off for senior class 
r 
FOR NATIONAL ELECTIONS(') see page 3 president will pit Don Diebel against Tom Tisa. Tisa zation that oversees the received the most votes with elections. 36.5 percent. Diebel was 
Unofficial election results for nearest to Tisa, with 19.6 per­~ m (I) a> .._a> >. class offices were announced cent.
-
::JQ)....

U(I)«S = 
c:­Tuesday night by OBUD. There will be no run-off in the a.l-m.!!? a> ~ (1)0 Voting indicated the run-off race for off-campus commis­
= ·-c: _a= Q) -(1) 
::J "CON Q)~
(/) c: .£:. election for sophomore class sioner. Ed Chestnut defeated m (.) president will be between Rob ~ Pasin and Frank Timons. see CLASSES, page 5 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, March 9, 1988 



In Brief · 
In Fairbanks, Alaska, at the Pike's Landing bar, the regulars have a curious way of telling spring is near ­-they wait for the first truck or car to break through the ice of the Chena River. Gary Halmstad earned that dubious distinction Monday. His 1979 van broke through 8 inches of ice as he started across an ice bridge used as a winter shortcut by many residents. The dunking was the earliest that bar patrons could recall. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Benjamin Bull, legal counsel for Citizens for Decency Through Law, Inc. will speak on "Brian T. vs. Pacific Bell: Is Civil Redress Possible for Victims of Pornogra­phy?" at noon Thursday in Room 110 of the Law School. 
-The Observer 

Bridge Club will meet tonight from 11 p.m. to midnight in the oasement of Alumni Hall. Beginners are welcome. 
-The Observer 

GreatHungerCiean-upsign-upsforthoseinterested in • cleaning up South Bend on April 16 for the hungry will be in the dining halls during dinner tonight. -The Observer 
Humanitas will be accepting submissions for the spring 1988 issue until March 31. Please give essays, fiction and recent book reviews to the English Office in 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
An Tostal mud volleyball team sign-ups are Wednesday, March 23 from 6:30 to 8:30p.m. in 307 LaFor­tune Student Center. There must be seven players per team with a minimum of two women and a maximum of one women's varsity or men's club player. There is a 128 team limit. Call Michelle Gund at 284-5184 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
Graduate Student Union general elections will be held tonight at 8 at Wilson Commons. -The Observer 
Dismas House application deadline has been extended to March 11. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. If interested, contact Kathy Royer at the Center or at 239-7862. -The Observer 
Chimes LiteraryMagazinewelcomes submissions of art works, poetry, plays, and short stories for the 1988 issue. Please send in care of Chimes to the English De­partment in 303 Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. -The Ob­server 
Off-campus sophomores can get class newsletters at the Sophomore Cfass Office on the second floor of LaFor­tune this week during normal business hours. -The Obser­
ver 

Father Richard McBrien will speak on "Modern Challenges to Catholicism" in the first floor lounge of St. Edward's Hall at 8 tonight. -The Observer 
Freshmen interested in organizing next year's Sophomore Literary Festival should contact Mike Evces at 283-1537 or the Office of Student Activities on the third floor of LaFortune by Friday. -The Observer 
The Medieval Institute will present a lecture by Charles Kannengiesser entitled "Hilaary of Poitiers in Medieval Theology" at 4:15p.m. in room 715 of the Res­burgh Library on Thursday. -The Observer 
Lenten twilight retreat for women will be held on Friday, March 25 at 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. from 6:30 to 11 p.m. For more information, call 288-2665. -The Ob­server 
The time has come for Nice Guys' revenge 
At long last, Nice Guys are about to get their revenge. 
For a long time now, Nice Guys, and Nice Girls for that matter, have been getting sand kicked in their faces. 
Nice, it seems, was not hip. Nice was out. Mean was in. 
"Listen up, all you Judeo-Christian people out there,'' Ben Stein wrote in the October 1987 issue of Elle magazine. "We have a new command­ment, passed down vaguely but unchallen­geably to all Americans. It goes like this: 'Thou shalt not be nice.' Or, in this case, 'thou shall not be too nice.' " 
The new meanness was everywhere: Pit bulls were replacing Cocker Spaniels. Joan Rivers had her own show. Spiked hair was in. The Beastie Boys were hot. 
And Nice People were being bashed. 
"When the question is asked, 'What's so nice about being a Nice Guy?' the answer is, 'Not much,' " Steve Levin wrote in a Sept. 4, 1987 Chicago Tribune article. "Today, being a Nice Guy brings one close to falling over the edge into wimpdom." 
Even Notre Dame was not immune to the meanness trend. 
Nice Guys sent flowers to their Dream Girls only to be called "Goobers." Nice Girls brought cookies to bedridden guys only to have them take out other girls when they got well. 
Yes, Nice Guys were finishing last. And so were Nice Girls. 
But there was hope. 
The trend toward meanness could not last, Stein wrote. "There are just too many people out there who are nice, and want others to be nice. (After all, it's nice to be nice, and it's wonderful to be wonderful, even if those are subversive words today.) We nice people may be down today . . . But tomorrow the worm may turn. 
"Holding doors may be hip,'' he wrote. "Complimenting women instead of dumping them may be cool . . . Don't give up, nice people. Our day will come ...." 
Nice People, our day has come. 
Meanness is on its way out. Just ask Repub­lican presidential candidate Bob Dole. 
Dole, you'll remember, was doing pretty well not too long ago. He had won the Iowa caucuses, and Super Tuesday looked promising. 
Then Bob got mean. 
Shortly before the New Hampshire primaries Dole snarled to a reporter, "Get back in your cage." Then, after he lost the primary, Dole snapped at George Bush: "Stop lying about my record." 


Now, at the time, Dole might have thought growling was a good strategy --appeal to the popular trend toward meanness --a sure way, it seemed, to the nomination. 
But Dole was in for a mean surprise: It's nice to be nice again. His standing in the polls fell. And he got bombed on Super Tuesday. Dole is now destined to lose the Republican nomination. He's just too mean to win. 
The Senator's impending loss is just the beginning, though. Soon, niceness will spread outside the world of politics. 
It will be chic to adopt stray cats and dogs. It will be cool to give money to beggars. It'll be hip to stop in traffic to let cars out from parking lots. 
And Nice People will be in demand. 
Nice Guys will be able to get first, second, even third dates. They'll be appreciated for sen­ding flowers. Heck, they might even win the hearts of their Dream Girls. 
Nice Girls will not only be respected, they'll be popular, too. They won't be stood up. They'll find--and get--their Mr. Rights. 
Mean People, in turn, will be the new losers. They'll be turned down for second dates. They'll stay home on Saturday nights. 
At last, Nice Guys won't finish last, Mean People will. Yes, Nice People, revenge will be sweet. And v~_ry, very nice. 


FREE TOPPINGS! 
Any Size Pizza With Unlimited 
Toppings For The Cheese Pizza 
Price: 10" -$4.50 
14" -$6.50 


-~e-Obse.~~r-­
--=-.l~ll ----.L-:=Y~._, --·­
Design Editor . . . . Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout _______________ Laura Manzi Deaign Auistant __ __ ___ _ Annette Rowland Accent Copy Editor _________ Susan Buckley Typesetter~-------. ____ Paul Jackson Accent Layout................. Heather Hypes ------------------·······-············Mark Ridgeway --------·----------------.................. Kathy Gliwa 
Newa Editors _____________ Mark McLaughlin Typist ..................________________ Will Zamer . -......................................... Scott Bearby ND Day Editor----------------Carrie McCall Copy Editor-----------------------Tim O'Keefe Photographer----------------------Donald Pan Sport• Copy Editors--------------Pete Skiko Layout------------------------------Sean Buckley 
............................................Greg Guffey Sparta Wednesday ______________ Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Copy Editor __ __ __ Julie Cellinge ..........................................Brian O'Gara 
TM Olllener (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisMd Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. TM Olleenet" is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purc:has­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina TIM Olllenet", P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
TM Olllen• is a member or TM AIMdated rr-. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
Wednesday, March 9, 1988 The Observer 
page 3 
•





Super Tuesday: Bush WinS, Dems mixed 

Associated Press 
George Bush won Super Tuesday primaries from one end of Dixie to the other, reaping a rich harvest of con­vention delegates to seize con­trol of the Republican presiden­tial race. Michael Dukakis captured Florida and Maryland in a demonstration of nationwide appeal, and Sen. Albert Gore Jr. emerged to split Dixie with Jesse Jackson in the splintered Democratic race. 
Jackson and Gore dueled one another in a series of close con­tests in the 14 Southern and bor­der states on the busiest night of this or any other presidential nominating season. 
That left Rep. Richard Gep­hardt the odd man out in the Democratic contest. He won only his home state of Missouri and was failing to qualify for convention delegates in several states. 

,.~. ·. ;...,.=~ 
~· 

, 
---';~; 

'\;"~-:;.. ~-'\­
AP Photo George Bush holds a command­Ing lead In the race for the Re­publican presidential nomina­tion after Super Tuesday ... 
Bush routed Sen. Bob Dole and his Republican rivals in state after state by margins of 2-1 or 3-1, and exulted in a "a unique political happening." 

president's total for the night 
oe\\"ert 

THE YELLOW 
SUBMARINE 
''Nicest Buns In Town" 
HAM SALAMI CORNED BEEF 
PEPPERONI VEGETARIAN MEATBALL 
TUNA SALAD FRENOiDIP OiiCKEN SALAD PIZZA 
TURKEY 

ANDSPEOALS 
PASTRAMI PEPPERONI-MEATBALL ASSORTED CUTS 
The IWian -Hal)l, Salami, Pepperoni Oub Combo -Roast Beef, Ham, Turkey Super Combo -Ham, Salami, Honey Loaf 
AU ON WHITE OR WHOLEWHEAT BUNS BAKED FRESH TiiE DAY YOU EAT mEM WITH NO PRESERVATIVES 
---SEASONED TO PLEASE YOUR TASTE---­
LETIUCE. ONION, TOMATO, rrAUAN DRESSING, MAYONAISE. YELLOW AND BROWN MUSTARD, AND YOUR CHOICE OF CHEEZE -MOZZARELLA. SWISS, AMERICAN, OR PROVOLDNE 
ALSO AV~BLE AT NO £XTRA QiARCE 
PICKLES, BLACK OUVES, SALT, PEPPER, JALAPENO AND BANANA PEPPERS, OREGANO, RED HOfSAUCE 
FRESH SALAD-Try Our New Super Salad 
DRINKS .55 -.65 -.75 -1.00 Pepsi, Diet, Mounlain Dew. Teem, Dr. Pepper, Grape, Orange, Upper 10, Lemonade, Fruit Punch, Ice Tea, Root Beer 
WITH SERVICE THArS READY WHEN YOU ARE 
MONDAY-SATURDAY 10am-10pm SUNDAY 11am-8pm 
AT PRICES YOU CAN TRUST 8" Foot Long And 2' up to 6' $2.00-$2.99 $3.00 -$3.99 At special Pnces 
Come In -Or Call 272-HIKE 
We Deliver Within 3 Miles-$6.00 Minimum Order 

N 
~ 

18109 SR 23 -JUST WEST OF IRONWOD-272-4453 
Dole, while campaigning Tuesday in Springfield, Ill., said, "If we take a little bath today, I am going to start my road to recovery in Illinois just like I did 40 years ago." 
Pat Robertson's best states were Arkansas and Louisiana, where he challenged Dole for second place. But he was run­ning third in his home state of Virginia, and overall the South failed to produce any spark at all for the former TV evan­gelist. 
Rep. Jack Kemp was in fourth place in most of the states, and was a candidate for withdrawal from the race. 
"You've given me and Bar­bara a tremendous lift," Bush said in Houston. 
And indeed the voters had. 

The vice president led in the race for over 550 of the 712 Re­publican delegates at stake. Campaign manager Lee At­water predicted the vice 
would exceed 600. 
Dole congratulated the vice president on an "extremely good day," adding, "He'll prob­ably sleep better than I will." But the Kansas senator tried to turn the talk to next week's Il­linois primary, saying, ''Tomorrow we will be on the road to recovery." 
Bush romped to victory in Texas, Florida, Georgia, Vir­ginia, Kentucky, Mississippi, 
fr[J={j[E liJ!RlLr~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
.Just Whl'll ht• WCL'-i l't'atl\ for mid lifr l'risis, · sonwthing unPxpt•t·t•.'!J l'anw up. 
l'uhPrt~. 

('olumhia l'il'tun•s l'rt•so•nts AClt•mpnt/La Fn•nais l'n•lu<'linn sturrm~.ludgt• Ht>inhold "Vii'P VPrsa" Fn•d Savagl' Swoosit• Kurtz ~"'"'h) llavid Shin• lliro•o·turuf l'hntul(l'uph) King Baggot Ewo·uu,,.l'ruduo·o•r Alan Ladd..Jr. 
Q \\rill"" a11d l'ro•lu.-.·•1 h) ~~~~~~~:~'.!..~a!!;__~~~~ais llor"·tood h' Brian (iillwrt 
II ...·~~~-·--·-·-~~~--..-..~~~ 
STARTS FRIDAY AT SELECT THEATRES. 

. . . while Michael Dukakls still has an edge over his opponents In the Democratic field. 
Alabama, Maryland, Rhode Is­land, Tennessee, Louiusiana and Massachusetts. North Carolina was a closer call -­
but it landed in Bush's column anyway. 
Dole's best states were Mis­souri, where his lead was paper-thin, and Oklahoma, where he trailed narrowly. 
Dukakis was a winner at home in Massachusetts, as well as in Florida, Rhode Island and Maryland, and he led hand­somely in Texas. "I feel good about the South," said the man with the New England accent. 
Gore captured his home state of Tennessee and added Ken­tucky, Oklahoma and North Carolina to his column as he jump-started his candidacy in the 14 Southern and border states. He pronounced himself the winner in the battle for the allegiance of the "indepen­dently thinking voters who will be the real battleground in the fall'' election for the White House. 
He promised a "long, hard­fought contest" for the nomina­tion. Next stop for Gore: a weekend duel with Jackson and Gephardt in South Carolina. 
Gephardt won his home state of Missouri but was running in third or fourth place in several states. He vowed to stay in the race for the industrial state battlegrounds ahead, but aides said in advance that he wouldn't make much of an ef­fort in next week's contest in Illinois. 
The campaign was notable for its accusatory TV commer­cials. The number of conven­tion delegates at stake --712 in 17 Republican contests and 1,307 in 21 Democratic prima­ries and caucuses --made at­tack tatics more inviting. 
Before yesterday, Bush and Dukakis were the leaders in the hunt for national convention delegates. Democratic delegates from Minnesota's Feb. 23 caucuses were being allocated, with most going to Dukakis, followed by Jackson. 
Beforehand, Dukakis had 70 delegates, Gephardt 50, Simon 36, Jackson 28 and Gore 22. It takes 2,082 delegates to win the Democratic nomination. 
Panama cites U.S. 'colossus' 

Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama-­Foreign Minister Jorge Abadia charged Tuesday that U.S. mil­itary maneuvers along the Panama Canal were "a prelude to an armed invasion of Panama." 
Abadia told a news confer­ence that exercises begun over the weekend by the U.S. South­ern Command were''acts of ar­rogance that are intolerable" and that Panama was "suffer­ing the aggression of a foreign colossus." 
The United States has been calling for the removal of Panama's strongman, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who was indicted in Florida last month on drug trafficking charges. The Reagan adminis­tration has stepped up its criticism of Noriega since he 
orchestrated  the  removal  of  
President  Eric  Delvalle  on  
Feb. 26.  

But a spokeswoman for the Southern Command, speaking on condition of anonymity, denied any hostile intent in the 5-week-long maneuvers, saying they were regularly scheduled annual exercises. They involve about 680 soldiers from U.S. military installa­tions in Panama and U.S. Na­tional Guard members. 
Abadia said Panama "can­not interpret (the maneuvers) as anything but the prelude to an armed inva­sion of Panama, and if we are mistaken, let them demon­strate that we're mistaken." 






page 4 The Observer 




Former Fed fights for peace 
By MARTY SCHRIER 
News Staff 

Last September, after twenty years of service to the Fedral Bureau of Investiga­tion, John Ryan was fired for refusing an order to investigate an antiwar organization. 
In his lecture, "A Crisis in Conscience," at the Law School Tuesday, Ryan spoke of his firing that resulted from a con­flict between "his personal and human beliefs" and the activi­ties of the FBI. 
Ryan was ordered to investi­gate the "plowsharers," an an­tiwar group which was believed responsible for tam­pering with locks at military recruiting offices in Chicago, as well as other acts in the Mid­west. Ryan said he "decided to confront the agency on this issue." 
Ryan said he was impressed by the group's stance on non­violence. He also said their ac­tions ''were not under the scope of the domestic security guidelines" that could require him to take action. 
Although he was only ten months short of his retirement 


Dancin' 
continued from page 1 

student body is comfortable with the group as it has existed. 
The group was operating on a one-year trial basis after being disbanded briefly last year. The board, originally called the Ad Hoc Appeals Board, met Tuesday to re­evaluate the group, said co­captain Robin Bolinger. 
Student Body Vice President Laurie Bink, who sat on the board, said the original reason for the trial period had to do with the quality of the the group's performances. "With all the improvements, they are a good dancing troupe," Bink said. "But now that we know this, we see that the problems are deeply rooted. 
''I don't think the students ac­cept (the group)," Bink said. 
''There are some members of the audience, predominantly females, who are not comfort­able with the Dancin' Irish," said Bink. 
"Because of the female na­ture of the group, the connota­tions associated with the Dan­cin' Irish are sexist," she said. 
Bink said student surveys have shown sexism is a prob­lem at Notre Dame, "and the Dancin' Irish isn't a positive step toward getting rid of the sexism here." 
Bink said the board will dis­cuss restructuring the group with the co-captains Thursday and that the restructuring may include the involvement of men in the group. 
Bolinger disputed the conten­tion that Notre Dame students don't like the Dancin' Irish. "All the comments we've received throughout the year have been positive," she said. 
Bolinger said there was a perception among board mem­bers that the image of the Dan­cin' Irish was inappropriate. She said she objected to ~he idea that "the Dancin' 11 ish doesn't conform to the im 1ge that a Notre Dame wor 1an should portray. 
"We're not a group of air­heads," Bolinger said. "We're a group of quality girls." She added, "We've cut out anything that could be considered risque." 
at the time, Ryan said he felt this was a time in his life when he must take a stand. As a result of this act of insubordina­tion, as the FBI refers to it, he will be unable to collect his pen­sion for the next twelve years. 
In explaining the reason for his decision to disobey orders, Ryan cited a religious conver­sion to nonviolence. His own children, said Ryan, helped cause the realization that "power is equated with vio­lence." He said, "Violence does not work; it is great short-time effectiveness. The problem does not go away." 
A Bible study class equally contributed to his conversion to non-violence, he said, and he no longer saw his religion as personal, but as "an experi­ence of taking care of people in the margins in a non-violent way." 
After this conversion, he could "no longer exclude reli­gion from his activities as he had done before," he said, add­ing that "I was on a collision course when I learned more 
about  such  movements  as  
liberation  theology  and  the  
feminists."  

Ryan also said he is strongly opposed to U.S. policy in Central America. He sees the government's actions there "as violent, illegal and im­moral . . . These patterns of violence will continue as long as such government action exists." 
John Ryan said he was raised a staunch Roman Catholic. He entered the seminary, but left to join the police. After stints in the police force and in the army, he was hired by the FBI. During his career as a foreign intelligence operative, he was twice commended for his work, which included the investiga­tion of organized crime figures and of fugitives such as Father Daniel Barrigan. 
Ryan said he still feels the FBI is a "good agency." But he said he feels ''the FBI has been used to quell dissent sometimes when dissent was warranted. The FBI was ill­advised to be involved in the case of the investigation of an­tiwar organizations.'' 
Ryan's lecture was spon­sored by Notre Dame's In­stitute for International Peace Studies. 
Wednesday, March 9, 1988 
The Observer I Don Pan
Twisted goals 
The goalpost stands slightly askew, but not nearly as badly as when the student!': tore it down last fall 
0978 

qsoob
.,.. 
84 u 
® 

The American Express" Card can pla1· a starring role virtually an:where you shop, from ']1.Jisa to 'l11ailand. Whether you're buying a TV or aT-shirt So during college and after, it's the perfect wa1 to pay for just about eve('l1hing you'll want 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now \\1Jether you're a freshman, senior or grad ~tudent. look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application Dn campus Or calll-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without It~"' 
I! 
TRAVEL 
RElATED 
o SERVICES 


Wednesday, March 9, 1988 
Jaeger's comments spark HPC debate 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Staff 
Anger over Student Govern­ment Chief of Staff Mike Jaeger's comments in last week's Scholastic disrupted last night's Hall Presidents Council meeting. 
Jaeger said in Scholastic that the HPC was not concerned with many of the issues that are important to the Student Sen­ate, and there was a seious lack of communication between the two bodies. 
One example of this was a vote on establishing a new busi­ness committee, he said. The bill had been extensively ex­amined by the Senate and passed unanimously, while it barely passed HPC after al­most no debate, said Jaeger. 
Jaeger also alleged in the ar­ticle that "whenever a senator shows up (at HPC meetings), to present (the HPC) with a proposal, it becomes a tense situation." 
After the meeting, Tim Sal­mon, HPC chairman, said that Jaeger had not attended the HPC meetings when the dis­puted bill and other controver­sial bills were discussed, and thus has no basis for his com­plaints. 


Classes 
continued from page 1 
Chris Koster 53.5 percent to 
46.5, said Wilson. "Chestnut 
has an unofficial victory," Wil­
son said. Chestnut could not be 
reached for comment. 
Campaigning for the run-off 
election began at midnight 
Tuesday and will continue until 
midnight tonight, Wilson said. 
Voting will be conducted from 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 4:30 
to 6:30 p.m., he said, adding 
that off-campus students will 
be able to vote from noon to 5 
OlV Available: 

Salmon said Jaeger never contacted him or Bob Daley, HPC co-chairman, about any of his problems. He also said that it was "one-sided" of the Scholastic to run Jaeger's views without contacting anybody on the HPC to see what their feelings were. 
Many of the HPC members indicated that the tense situa­tions senators find themselves in are the result of frivolous proposals. One HPC member, Jeff Dorschner of St. Edward's Hall, asked the senate to show the same recognition of the HPC as a political body that the HPC does for the senate. 
In other matters of business, Rich Daly and Mary Beth Fodor announced that the Alumni Association will have a "Hospitality --Information Center" located in South Padre. 
The HPC will be choosing a rector of the year by nomina­tions filled in by committee members. 
Hall events were announced at the meeting. The Mr. Stan­
ford Contest will be held April 
The Observer 


the ballot box in LewisKaren Hartnett, left, and Steffanie Keller 
9, the Cavanaugh Hall play on ,H_a_l_lf_o_r_st_u.,..de_n_t_c_la_s_s_,o_ff....,.ic.,...e_e_le_c_tio_n_s_._s_to_ry::...._o_n....:.p_a.::.ge_o_ne_._____ 
the week after spring break, and the Dining Halls' Heart Lights Run will be on the Thursday of that week. 
p.m. at the mtormat10n desk in LaFortune Student Center. 
Wilson said 50 percent of the vote plus an additional vote is required to win a regular elec­tion. 
Tisa said he was pleased with the results but said that the election is "not over yet." 
"The key is to get people out there to vote. I think the prob­lem is going to be getting the same votes and a few new ones from the other candidates," Tisa said, adding his strategy is "just to go to the dorms we didn't do well in and find people, talk to them and en­

2 Inexpensive , safe houses located close to campus 
-323 Notre Dame Ave. -8 bedrooms -702 St. Louis St. -4 bedrooms 
Call Laura after 6 p.m. at 289-6621 for more information. 
ATTENTION FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES DEPARTMENT PRESENTATIONS 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9: 
-PSYCHOLOGY 119 Haggar 4:30-5 
p.m. -ART 200 Riley 5-6:00 ,B.m. _ .. o~" -ECONOMICS 104 0 Shag 78 '"' 

~c0MMuNICATIONSI THEATRE Washington Hall 8-&:00 p.m. 
courage them to vote." ward to the run-off Thursday. 
The members of Tisa's ticket "I'm real excited to be in the are Lisa Jochum, John Brennan run-off. It was a very close race and Angela Ammon. between Bill (Fitzgerald), 
Don Diebel, Tisa's opponent myself and Erich Straub," said in the run-off, expressed Breslin. "We look forward to similar thoughts. "Like we the election Thursday, and have in the past week, we're we're trying to gather as many going to talk to as many people of the other votes that are as we can," Diebel said. available." "We're going to try to get Breslin's ticket includes can­people to get out and vote." didates AI DiGiulio, Carolyn 
"We feel very strongly about Rey, and Kim Hickey. our platform," Diebel said. Bill Fitzgerald, who will face "We're doing out best not to Breslin in the run-off, could not make this a popularity contest. be reached for comment. We feel we can make a differ-Rob Pasin said he and his ence," he said. running-mates, Stacy Farrar, 
Diebel's running-mates are Julie Shadd and Steve Wagner, Ken Fitzpatrick, vice-are happy with the results and president, Robert Fitz, trea-look forward to the run-off. surer, and Shannon McAllister, Timons, Pasin's opponent, secretary. could not be reached for com-
Breslin said he is looking for-ment. 


~[FJ@[f{flf~ 
are better with Your Group and 


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 
is now accepting 
applications for the 
positions of 
PRESIDENT and VICE PRESIDENT. 
Applications may be obtained on the 2nd floor of LaFortune and are to be returned to Michael Thomas at the Adworks office 
by 6:00pm, Tuesday, March 22. 
page 5 



Reagan 
continued from page 1 

suitable for framing, will also be available, he added. 
People can stick their stamps on almost anything and get the postmark printed on it, includ­ing programs and "probably even footballs," Sniadecki said. 
Not eveyone, however, will be honoring Rockne at today's ceremony. Members of Pax Christi-Notre Dame, the local chapter of the international Catholic peace movement, will demonstrate against Reagan at the JACC. Members will march with banners and dis­tribute flyers to people going into the JACC, said Tom Esch, a Pax Christi member. 
A South Bend group calling itself the "Ad Hoc Committee to Greet Reagan" expects 100 to 500 people to march from Leeper Park in downtown South Bend to the JACC. The group objects to Reagan's sup­port of aid to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
Protesters, however, will not be allowed inside the JACC, said Rex Rakow, Notre Dame Security director. 
Born in Voss, Norway, Rockne came to America with his parents at age five. After high school, he worked as a mail dispatcher in Chicago for four years before enrolling at Notre Dame. 
Following a successful playing career, Rockne began a 13-year run as coach. Rockne's teams won six na­tional championships and had five unbeaten and untied seasons. Winning the last 19 games he coached, Rockne garnered an .881 winning percentage, ranking him first among college and profes­sional football coaches. 
Along with the stamp, Rockne is also being honored this week with an exhibit focus­ing on his personal life at the Northern Indiana Historical Museum. In addition, the Studebaker National Museum has loaned Notre Dame an ex­hibit covering the history of the Studebaker-owned Rockne 
Motors Co. 

Studebaker named a car after Rockne in 1931 after employing the Notre Dame co­ach for four years to make motivational tapes for its salesmen. 
Rockne died in an airplane crash in March 1931. 
Palestinians release 2 hostages 
Associated Press 
SIDON, Lebanon -The Abu Nidal Palestinian terrorist group freed a British relief agency official and his Syrian aide Tuesday, five days after seizing them in this southern port city, a Sunni Moslem leader reported. 
Peter Coleridge, 44, Middle East coprdinator of the British relief agency Oxfam, and Omar Traboulsi, 31, appeared physically fit when members of Abu Nidal's Fatah Revolution­ary Council drove them to the Sidon apartment of Mustafa Saad, the Sunni leader. 

page 6 The Observer 

Chicago road construction may delay spring break travel 
By SANDY CERIMELE Saint Mary's Editor 
Travellers to and through the Windy City for spring break can expect long traffic delays on the Dan Ryan expressway due to a two-year construction project that began March 1, ac­cording to the AAA-Chicgo Motor Club. 
The project will continue through Nov. 1 of this year to repair the north-bound side and will resume from March 1 to Nov. 1 of next year to repair the south-bound lanes, accor­ding to an informational pamphlet from the Motor Club. 
During the construction per­iod, the 225,000 vehicles which normally use the four lanes in each direction will be squeezed down to two lanes in each di­rection, according to the pamphlet. 
Traffic experts expect the construction project to affect all major routes in the Chicagoland area. The Motor Club has advised travellers to use alternate routes to allevi­ate the congestion on the Dan Ryan. 
Students travelling to the Chicago area on United Limo can expect to arrive into Chicago at least a half hour later than scheduled and when returning from Chicago to the Notre Dame stop, said John Kostin, United Limo Dis­patcher. 
"It is important that the stu­dents note the change because it is not accounted for in the schedules," Kostin said. "We will include the half hour change in the new schedules that we will print after the time change." 
For those driving through Chicago, the Motor Club offers local and regional alternates to the Dan Ryan. The pamphlet lists a pair of one-way streets, Indiana and Michigan A venues, as well as the Chicago Skyway, Stony Island Avenue and Lake Shore Drive as pro­viding the best alternatives to motorists. 
The route suggested from the Indiana toll road to the city is to continue on I-90 as it be­comes the Chicago Skyway, which has a one way toll of $1.50, and exit at Stony Island A venue and continue north. Motorists are then advised to take Hayes Drive in Jackson Park to Lake Shore Drive, U.S. 41. 
Travellers from Northwest Indiana to Wisconsin are advised take the Borman Ex­pressway <I-80) west to the Tri­State Tollway <I-294). Accor­ding to the Motor Club, this route will circle the Chicago area and I-294 will eventually become 1-94, which goes to the Milwaukee area. Another op­tion offered to Milwaukee­bound motorists is diverting to the Northewst Tollway <I-90) near O'Hare, which will take them to Rockford and points north. 
In the likely event that the Tri-State area is badly con­gested, the Motor Club sug­gests motorists to continue on 1-80 to Illinois Route 59 or Route 
47. Although these are not ex­pressways, they should provide a clear route to 1-90 during "non-peak" travel periods. 
The Motor Club advises travellers to keep gas tanks more than half full in case of long traffic delays, pay close attention to traffic reports on local Chicago radio stations and to allow extra time in get­ting to destinations. 
A spokesperson from the Motor Club added that travell­ing at the normal rush hours of 9 a.m., 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. is not recommended during this con­struction period. She added that the pamphlet containing this and more information on other alternative routes is now available at the AAA Motor Club office in Mishawaka. 


The Observer I Don Pan 
Bombs away 

Freshmen Bob Dengler, Mark Thumser and Tom Wiltberger get ready to drop their laundry in Sorin Hall. The laundry drop, which occurs every Thursday night at Sorin, makes the stairwell a danger zone. 





Security Beat 
Sunday, March 6 
I:40 p.m. -A watch was found in front of the Hesburgh Library and turned in to Security. 
3:30 p.m. -A visitor reported the theft of her wallet and camera from her friend's unlocked room in Lyons Hall between 12 and 3 p.m. 
7 p.m. -A resident of Alumni Hall reported the theft of his navy blue cloth jacket and wallet from outside court #I of the JACC around 6:30 
p.m. His loss is valued at $75. 
Monday, March 7 
I: 13 p.m. -A pick-up truck came loose from a tow truck and crashed into the golf course fence at the comer of Angela and US 33-31. Damage esti­mate is unknown at this time. 
8:05 p.m. -A New York state resident was cited for traveling 61 mph in a 30 mph zone on Ivy Rd. 
10 p.m. -A blue plastic card holder and contents were turned in to Security. 
10 p.m. -A South Bend resident reported that the driver's side window of his car had been broken out sometime between 7 and 9:30 p.m. in the Red East lot. 
10:40 p.m. -A purse was found in one of the bleacher sections of the JACC and turned in to Security. 
Tuesday, March 8 
12: I 0 p.m. -A resident of Lewis Hall reported the theft of her 35mm disc camera from her unlocked room. Her loss is estimated at $53. 

Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
the Joyce ACC, the president desires an "enthusiastic atmo­sphere," and because of this, he said, students were given top priority. 
Alumni Association Execu­tive Director Chuck Lennon added that the White House wanted many students there because President Reagan is coming "to the campus." That is why, he said, that mostly stu­dents will be at the event. 
Bobinski said the ticket office of the Joyce ACC distributed "as many (tickets) as they (students) would take," which he estimated as 6,850 by the 5 
p.m. deadline on Saturday, with another 200 distributed to students on Sunday. 
Bobinski said the ticket office had "no problem accomodat­ing anyone that wanted to go." He added, "We're very pleased with the student response ... considering the time period," sighting the many exams, other course work, and preparations for spring break during this week. 

In addition to the approxi­mately 7,000 student tickets distributed, Bobinski said about 500 tickets were dis­tributed to staff members. It was unknown to him how many tickets were distributed to fac­ulty members since they were distributed through the deans' offices, not the JACC ticket of­fice. 
A "limited quantity" of tick­ets originally alotted as faculty and staff tickets were released to the general public on Sun­day, said Bobinski. That distri­bution lasted for only 15 minutes, he said, at which point the tickets were sold out. 
No preference was given in seating for students, faculty, or staff, said Bobinski. Everyone will be ushered into the lower arena as they arrive, he added, and the bleachers will be used once the lower arena has been filled. 
Bobinski said a capacity crowd for the Joyce ACC is be­tween 9,000 and 9,500, and he predicts "pretty darn close or that many (people) there" for today's ceremonies. 
"It doesn't make sense," he said, "to have the place full all around." He explained that al­lowances would have to be made for a video screen, media, and security personel and equipment. 
"It will certainly look like a full house," he said, explaining that the organizers of the event "want the arena to look full." 
Lennon said student response is excellent. "The stu­dents are very excited. Everybody seems to be talking about it, and that is a good sign." He added, "I think it will be a fun day. I think the pres­ident will enjoy himself." 
Of all the tickets distributed to faculty and staff, about 750 went to Saint Mary's College, according to Bobinski. 




PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID HOCKNEY 
J LECTURE 
De"' 
Wednesday, March 9, 1988
L. ""~ __.......,...~P· m., Annenberg Auditorium 
CJIt tf11 ~ True to Life 
J, I tf'11 e oP' ,,.,, 
Lawrence Weschler -~tl' r A., '0 Mr. Weschler is a staff writer for The New'1 • Yorker who covers both art and politics. He has 
1

J,C' lectured extensively on the photographic 


-~ work of David Hackney a~d is the author of Camerawork, David Hockne-v, a complete overview of the artist's work in the medium. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 







Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 9, 1988 

page 7 
P.O. Box Q 

Y'I<NOW. IT'S RJNNY, 1.£10K/N6 BAO< ON IT, I CANi RCAUY 

JOT THATH/3. ACTW LIKE. JUST SAY rr R.Mif>TCR£1? THAT 
ANYOU?JOHN. NOIAJ4Y. H/3. JIMMY 14/A5 THIS 816­
WAS /l£A/.,. I?IFFERENT.1 
I 

Opus Dei or its history." Judging from your comments, you don't know too much about it either. Now, I'm hardly an expert on Opus Dei, as I am not a member, but a bit of cursory research proves that your factual assertions about its origins are incorrect. 
First of all, Opus Dei was not "born in the 1930s in the context of Spanish fascist politics." The editors of the Time-Life (who can hardly be criticized for their conservatism) "Library of Na­tions" series comment on this matter in their volume on Spain. "(Opus Dei) ... was founded in 1928 by an Aragonese priest, Jose Maria Escriva de Balaguer." General Franco had noth­ing to do with the founding of Opus Dei. Now, it is true that members of Opus Dei did serve the Franco regime. But listen to what the Time-Life authors say: "In the 1960s, members achieved great prominence in both commerce and government; indeed, they were the chief technocrats behind Spain's spec­tacular economic advance. With few exceptions, they were to the right of the political spectrum, but they were com­mitted to efficiency and good mangage­ment even at the risks of upsetting vested interests." Interesting, isn't it? 
You write that Opus Dei "continues to betray its fascist origins in its obses­sive emphasis on an autocratic hierarchy and on a monarchical papacy." Perhaps a better way to put it (since there's no evidence I can find to support the theory that Msgr. Escriva was a fascist) would be that the members of this organization evi­dently place a high value on the teach­ings of the Church and the importance of following them, regardless of their personal opinion of the doctrine in­volved. That seems to me an ideal that all Catholics should follow. In this sense, members of Opus Dei should be envied for their courage, not pilloried for their loyalty. 
May I offer a little friendly advice, Ann? Ifyou're trying to win people over to your point of view, it's not working. Why not be more thoughtful and schol­arly in your writings? Leave the emo­tional cheap shots behind and sharpen your research skills. As things stand now, I fail to see why the gentlemen in my dorm would want to be sympathetic to Common Sense when you currently support your arguments with such un­common nonsense. 
Edward Sheeran Asst. Rector!Cavanaugh Hall February 22, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 
Pettifer argument lacks rationality 
Dear Editor: 
In a letter to the editor, Feb. 17, 1988, Ann Pettifer implied by association that Opus Dei is a fascist organization, and also by association that Tom D'Andrea is a fascist. I am not now and never have been a member of Opus Dei. I have no desire to join or defend it. But I do know Mr. D'Andrea personal­ly. I disagree with him on some matters of opinion, but I wish to state very firmly that he is not a fascist. 
Ms. Pettifer's letter is just another example of her penchant for ad hominem arguments. The ad hominem argument is a well-known and particu­larly insidious fallacy. If you argue for some point, your opponent does not argue against that point. He calls you psychotic or some other derogatory term. If you argue for another point, he does not argue against it. He calls you schizophrenic. In the past Ms. Pet­tifer has claimed that the pope suffered permanent psychological damage as a result of the death of his mother and the beatings he suffered at the hands of his authoritarian father. If I remem­ber correctly she also suggested that Polish citizens are particularly prone to this latter type of behavior as well as authoritarianism. If my memory is correct, this is a blatantly racist claim. She made a similar diagnosis of Father Griffin. Where is the evidence support­ing these claims? Are we to believe them on the basis of hearsay supported by unexhibited facts? Is there a self­respecting psychiatrist or psychologist who would dare make a diagnosis of a man with whom she has not spoken ex­
tensively much less met? 
I am not simply disappointed in Ms. Pettifer's marked inability to argue ra­tionally before the Notre Dame com­munity, though I would take her much more seriously if she did. I am offended that a Christian would engage in such non-Christian personal attacks. 
Am I now to be diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic for writing this letter? Perhaps, in the best tradition of McCarthyism, I am to be labeled a fel­low fascist for daring to defend the character of a friend. Fortunately for all of us, God, not Ms. Pettifer, knows and will judge what we hold secret within our hearts. 
John P. O'Callaghan Off-campus Februar11 22, 1988 
Quote of the Day 
"All you can do is try to do the best of your ability, and with all the input and knowledge you get, then hope that the decisions you 
make  are  based  on  what  is  
morally right."  
Ronald  Reagan  

Pax Christi series misleading 
Dear Editor: 
During the week of Feb. 29--Mar. 4, 
The Observer ran a series of articles 
authored by certain members of the 
local chapter of Pax Christi. In intent 
these articles were supposed to target 
policies of the Reagan administration 
that the authors felt were immoral. 
-·hat the articles did, however, amount to were cheap shots on the president. Furthermore, these articles neglected to present the full story, and oftentimes did not present the pertinent informa­tion. In writing this letter I hope to pres­ent that side of the story that Pax Christi missed. 
In looking at the article dealing with the number of poor in America, the aut­hors throw a bunch of more or less use­less numbers at the audience. The num­bers that they do not present, however, are those concerning percentage in­crease. The percentage in this case being (number of poor)/( population). This number is what needs to be looked at, considering that along with an in­crease in the number of poor in America since 1980 there has also been an increase in population. 
In the article targeted at the Contras, the authors mention many times about peace initiatives of the Sandinista gov­ernment. What they don't mention is that the Contras are fighting against an oppressive government that recognizes no human rights, and that the peace plans made no offer to change their method of government. This is why the Contras are many times referred to as Freedom Fighters. Remember that we too, at one time, had to fight for our freedom. 
Finally, looking at the article tar­geted at the Iran-Contra scandal, the authors accuse Reagan of abandoning the Constitution of the United States and breaking the law. The simple fact remains, however, that if Reagan had done so he would have been impeached, as set forth in the Constitution. Further­more, the Constitution was written to protect the citizens of the United States, and in the process of the Iran-Contra scandal we were trying to rescue U.S. citizens. 
In concluding, I wish to express that I do recognize that the members of Pax Christi have rights to their opinions, but in trying to persuade others of these 
Doonesbury 

opmwns they, as "good Christians," must present both sides of the story. 
Michael J. Burke Flanner Hall March 6, 1988 
Rebuttal becomes personal attack 
Dear Editor: 

May I be permitted a few remarks in 
response to Ann Pettifer's letter pub­
lished on Feb. 17? 

There were probably more than afew students who were wondering whether Thomas D'Andrea was correct when he asserted that those graduate students who did not want their money going to fund Common Sense could get a refund. Unfortunately, your letter fails to ad­dress this issue. Instead, you seek to personally attack Mr. D'Andrea be­cause he is a member of Opus Dei. 
A number of thoughts come to mind. So what if Mr. D'Andrea is a member of Opus Dei? Does that make his argu­ment any less noteworthy? You didn't convince us that is was. What if Mr. D'Andrea were a member of the anti­apartheid coalition or the gay and les­bian group on campus? Would you have revealed such ties in an attempt to dis­credit his argument? You seem to be encouraging a heightened sense of openness and exchange of views on campus, Ann, so why can't a student join any organization he or she may wish without encountering criticism or discrimination. I thought we weren't supposed to discriminate against anyone because of his or her beliefs. Do I sense a double standard here, Ann? 
Now, if Opus Dei is as secretive as you claim, then how did you find out he was a member? It stands to reason that if he were concerned about secrecy, he wouldn't go around advertising his membership. Did you perhaps do a little investigation into his back­ground? Gee, and all this time I thought is was the Catholic hierarchy and Uni­versity administrators who were to be blamed for their intrusiveness into our lives here on campus. The fact of the matter is that details of Mr. D'Andrea's personal life, as well as details of your personal life, aren't any of our busi­ness. They certainly don't belong in a public newspaper that thousands of people read. 
You write that "it is surprising about how tew Catholics know anything about 

Editorial Board Operations Board


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ... KIMn Becker Business Manager····-·· ............ John Oxlider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor . ... . Marl< Pankowski Advertrsing Design Manager... . ........ Molly Killen News Editor... . ... Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager ............ -.............. Steve Clark News Editor . . . .... J1m Ailey Production Manager. ..... Melissa Warnke 
Viewpoint Editor.. .... Chns Murphy Projects Manager... ... Marl< Mclaughlin
The Observer 15 the Independent new$paper pubhshed by the students of the University ol 
Sports Editor ... . Denms Corngan Systems Manager.. .. . ··-·Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .. MIChael Naughton Controller........................... . ..... Tracy Schindele 
Noire Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly renect the policies of 
the adm.n1stra11on of either 1nst1tUt1on The News is reponed as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor. Sandy Ceninele Gmphic Arts Manager... .. . .......... Laura Stanton
possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor .. J1m Carroll
Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 1s ava1table to all members of the school community, and the tree expression ol varying opiniOns 
Founded November 3, 1988
on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 


~---~--------­

Accent 
page 8 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1988 
Exhibit: Rockne more than a sportsman 



HEIDI SCHLUMPF "He was a devoted son and accent writer visited his parents a lot," 
Bainbridge said. The collection 1\,WJst of the stamp dedication includes a krumkaka iron that l" .ltestivities today focus on his mother used to make his Knute Rockne, the sportsman. favorite dessert, a crisp Nor­But an exhibit at the Northern wegian cookie that was filled Indiana Historical Museum en­with sour cream and fresh titled "Rockne Family: A Per­raspberries or preserves. sonal View" focuses on Knute A photograph of Rockne's Rockne, the whole person. parents on their wedding day 
"These are very personal and parts of his mother's wed­family pictures and other family ding dress are also on display. artifacts that were loaned to A white blouse, apron and the museum by an anonymous head scarf, from the traditional member of the family," said Norwegian wedding costume David Bainbridge, the that she wore, were probably museum's curator. made by his mother as part of 
With the exception of some her dowry, Bainbridge said. of the photographs that have These pieces are elaborately been reprinted, the artifacts in embroidered and in very good this small collection have never The family changed the spell­where his family settled. After condition. been on public display. The ing of their name when they he graduated from high school, A significant part of the ex­exhibit opened Sunday and will emigrated to America in 1893. Rockne worked as a mail dis­hibit is allotted to old be on display at the museum "They added a 'K' for easier patcher with the Chicago Post photographs from a family until the end of March to mark pronunciation," said Office for four years. photo album. Included are the 1 OOth anniversary of Bainbridge. In 1910, Rockne enrolled at Rockne's confirmation picture Rockne's birth on March 4. The collection also includes a Notre Dame. "Legend says he from 1902, photos from San­
Many of the momentos focus purple and maroon enamel­arrived here with almost noth­dusky, Ohio, a favorite family 
on Rockne's Norwegian origins. ware plate used by the Rockne ing, a kind of 'Horatio Alger' vacation spot where Rockne Knute Kenneth Rokne was born family on their voyage to story," Bainbridge said. "Ac­met his wife Bonnie, pictures in Voss, Norway. Maps of Voss America. tually, he did get off the train of Rockne with his son at indicate the Rokne and Gjermo A photograph shows without any suitcases, but his Leeper Park. and even a photo farms, the family farms of his Rockne's boyhood home on things were sent later. His fam­of Rockne in a swimsuit. grandparents. Rockwell Street in Chicago, ily was fairly well-off." 
Irrational fears terrify a unique 
obsessive-compulsive 
T
he other day I was reading Some would blame these fears I also have a bizarre fear that 
L 
an article about these on an overactive imagination or at some point I'll get caught in people who have what they call on too many World War II the middle of a HORRIBLE obsessive-compulsive anxiety. movies. Others would blame it WART EPIDEMIC. It will prob­These are the people who feel on the military1ndustrial com­ably happen right before some like they have to have every plex. I blame Spuds MacKenzie real important event in my life, minute 
of their life scheduled -the one true Anti-Christ. too, like marriage or a stamp 
dedication or The Second Com­ing. Actually a HORRIBLE WART
Kevin Walsh EPIDEMIC could be a pretty cool excuse. "Sorry Professor Bloodletter, couldn't get that
Behind the Screen Door 

twenty-page paper done. Yeah, 
I got hit by that HORRIBLE to the second or who wash I have other weird, violent WART EPIDEMIC that's been their hands fifteen times a min­fears. I have an odd fear that going around....Yeah, covered, ute every day. Lady MacBeth someday l'il be walking along, head to toe. I could come over was an early obsessive­minding my own business, to your house and show you. compulsive, among her other when out of the blue the top of Hello...hello?" psychoses. Your roommate my head will be sheared off by Another irrational fear I have freshman year was probably a flying manhole cover. I can't is that I'll wake up one mor­obsessive-compulsive. explain that one, but I feel like ning and go to a couple 
So my first reaction to these it goes hand-in-hand with my classes before suddenly realiz­poor, unfortunate souls was irrational fear that whenever I ing that I forgot to put my one of sympathy and warmth. I drive under a highway overpass pants on. This is grounded in thought to myself (as if I could at night, there's some cretin on the dream of the same theme. think any other way), "Geez, top of it waiting to drop a The mind boggles as the line whatta buncha sicko, psycho, bowling ball through my between fear and fantasy blurs weirdos." windshield. There are those of even further. 
Then, reflecting on the you who would call this un­Like many of you, I also have murky pool of my own psyche, founded paranoia, but why? many irrational drunken fears. I realized that I too have a few What is it you want from me I'm sure that some morning I'll compulsions. Mine are mainly anyway!? awaken, and, through the haze in the form of completely and I have weird food fetishes, of a homicidal hangover, totally irrational fears. Not fears too. I often envision a Big Mac realize that not only am I mis­about things like getting bad made of worms, or spider eggs sing two very valuable grades, nuclear war, or cutting in my Bubble Yum, or toenails eyebrows, but that I am my tongue on an envelope as I in my Corn Flakes. The only married to a creature I barely try to seal it. I consider those explanation I can give for these recognize as human. These quiet crowded auditorium fears to be pretty rational. is that once in fifth grade, in fears, though not entirely un­causing great embarrassment 
For instance, many of my what I took to be a kind and founded in reality, rank right not only to myself, but to my fears take on a strange guerilla generous gesture, a kid gave up there with the best of them. family, my ancestors and every­bent. Whenever I see a plane me a large, homemade oat­I'm afraid that someday the one who has ever come into flying low over campus, I have meal cookie. I thanked him people who brought us the contact with me. The HISTORI­
a momentary fear that it will and, in the delicate manner of Bengal Bouts for hunger will CAL fear is that I'll end up in a open up its guns on me in a eating I had then, wolfed it give us duels for the homeless history book above a caption strafing run. Walking across an down in five seconds. Everyone or knife fights benefitting the 
that says, "In the 1980's, open field, I often wonder if it at the table burst into laughter. mentally ill. people actually used to look is mined. When I walk by a It turned out, of course, that Other fears fall into easy like this." All my ECONOMIC window at night, I always envi­everyone at the table had categories. I have the ACA­
and POLITICAL fears have sion my head in the crosshairs licked it. I remember thinking DEMIC irrational fear that already come true. Nothing I 
of a high-powered rine sight. it was a little on the moist side. someday I'll burp loudly in a could think up would be that home on Wayne Street in South Bend at the time of his funeral shows floral tributes stretched around the entire back yard. This house and the Rocknes' first home on St. Vincent Street are still standing, according to Bainbridge. 
Several books about Rockne's life arc also in the exhibit. The family has loaned a copy of Rockne's autobiogra­phy, which is edited by his wife and contains an introduction and postscript by Father John Cavanaugh. They have also loaned 'The Four Winners: The Story of a Great Football Team," by Knute Rockne and several biographies for the ex­hibit. 
"These items have never been on exhibit before, and who knows when they will be again. That makes (the collec­tion) that much more special," said Bainbridge. 
The Northern Indiana Histori­cal Museum is located at 1 I 2 
irrational. 

My final irrational fear is that someday a horribly misshapen picture of me will appear over a column that makes no sense. 
Boy, talk about irrational fears! 
Excuse me now, I've got to go wash my hands again. I'm trying to avoid that HORRIBLE WART EPIDEMIC that's going around. I'd advise you to do the same 

-~--------------­

March 9. 1988 The Observer page 9 


Sports Wednesday 

Sports Lists AP Top 20 
AP Top T-nty The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The 
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
Poorest Records Entering 
NCAA Basketball Tournament* 
Bradley Oklahoma City Geo. Washington Lehigh South Alabama Texas Montana Missouri 
* Men's Division I Source: NCAA 

USBWA All-America 
The 1988 U.S. Basketball Writers As­sociation All-America basketball tea, announced Monday: 
First Team Danny Manning, Kansas, Sr., forward Hersey Hawkins, Bradley, Sr., guard Gary Grant, Michigan, Sr., guard 
J.R. Reid, No. Carolina, So. forward Sean Elliot, Arizona, Jr., forward 
Second Team Danny Ferry, Duke, Jr., forward Rony Se1kaly, Syracuse, Sr., center Michael Smith, Brigham Young, Jr., for­ward Jerome Lane, Pittsburgh, Jr., forward Mitch Raymond, Kansas St., Sr., for­ward 
1. Temple (42) 27-1 1232 2. Purdue (17) 26-2 1205 3. Arizona (4) 2B-2 1148 4. Oklahoma 27-3 1019 5. Pittsburgh 22-5 924 
6. Kentucky 22-5 886
7-19 (.269) 

7. UNLV 26-4 B20 
B. Duke 21-6 802
9-17 (.346) 

9. No. Carolina 22-5 772 
10. Michigan 23-6 633
9-16 (.360) 

11. No. Carolina St. 23-6 526 12. Bradley 25-4 524 13. Syracuse 22-B 515
12-18 (.400) 

14. Wyoming 23-5 385 15. Iowa 21-8 368 12-14 (.462) 16. Loyola 26-3 33B 
12-16 (.429) 

17. Brigham Young 24-4 248 18. Georgia Tech 21-8 179
14-16 (.467) 

19. Illinois 20-9 142 20. Xavier 24-3 141
14-15 (.483) 


Others receiving votes: Kansas St. 100. So. Meth­odist 55, Georgetown 52, DePau/45, Seton Hall 32, Florida 21, Vanderbilt 16, Texas-EI Paso 14, Kansas 13, Rhode Island 13, Indiana 12, Arkansas-Little Rock 9, Auburn 9, Missouri 9, No. Carolina A&T 8, Baylor 6, Louisville 3, Utah 2, Villanova 2, Boise State 1, SW Missouri State 1. 

NCAA Tournament 
Women's Top 20 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty women's college basketball teams In The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Auburn (53) 2B-1 1231 2. Iowa (B) 25-1 1168 3. Tennessee (1} 28-2 1117 4. Texas 2B-2 1064 5. Louisiana Tech 25-2 994 6. Ohio State 23-4 929 
7. Virginia 25-4 850 
B. Long Beach St. 22-5 770 
9. Rutgers 23-4 710 10. Maryland 24-5 682 11. Stanford 25-3 570 12. Washington 22-4 540 13. Mississippi 23-6 520 14. Southern Cal 20-6 452 15. James Madison 24-3 340 16. Montana 26-1 254 17. Georgia 20-9 22B 
18. 
New Mexico St. 26-2 207 

19. 
Stephen F. Austin 26-4 185 20. LaSalle 24-3 61 


Others receiving votes: Clemson 21, DePaul 20, Nebraska 19, Nevada-Las Vegas 14, Penn State 14, Kansas 9, St. Joseph's 9, Syracuse B, Houston 7, Western Kentucky 7, Montana St. 5, Colorado 4, Wake Forest 4, Appalachian St. 2, New Orleans 2, St. John's 2, Old Dominion 1. 
Regionals 
Thurs., Mar. 24 and Sat., Mar. 26 East--Brendan Byrne Arena, East Rut­herford, N.J. Southeast--Birmingham-Jefferson Center, Birmingham, Ala. 
Fri., Mar. 25 and Sun., Mar. 27 Midwest--Silverdome, Pontiac, Mich. West--Kingdome, Seattle, Wash. 
THE FINAL FOUR Semifinals Saturday, April 2 
Kemper Arena, Kansas City, Mo. Finals Monday, April 4 Kemper Arena, Kansas City, Mo. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB Baltimore 2 .667 Cleveland 2 .667 Oetroit 2 1 .667 Milwaukee 2 2 .500 .5 Boston 1 .500 .5 Toronto 2 .333 1 N.Y. Yankees 3 .250 1.5 
West 

Seattle 2 1 .667 California 2 2 .500 .5 Kansas City 2 2 .500 .5 Texas 2 2 .500 .5 Oakland 1 3 .250 1.5 Chicago 0 2 .0 1.5 Minnesota 0 2 .0 1.5 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Women's Basketball at Northern Illinois 
Friday Track at NCAA Indoor Championships 
Saturday Men's Basketball at Dayton Women's Basketball at Dayton Baseball at Schreiner College (2) Golf at Embry-Riddle Intercollegiate (Daytona) Women's Tennis vs Cal. St.-Northridge (at UNLV) 
Sunday Lacrosse at Colorado School of Mines Women's Tennis vs. Colorado-Boulder (at UNLV) Men's Tennis Penn State. 
Monday Baseball at St. Edward's 
Tuesday Lacrosse at Colorado College Baseball at Texas Lutheran (2) Women's Tennis at UNLV Men's Tennis at M.I.T. 
Wednesday, March 16 Baseball at St. Mary's Men's Tennis Boston College Women's Tennis vs. Alabama (at UN­LV) 
Thursday, March 17 Lacrosse at Air Force Men's Tennis at Harvard Baseball at Incarnate Word 
Friday, March 18 Women's Tennis vs. Princeton (at UN­LV) Baseball vs. Cornell (at San Antonio, Tex.) 
Saturday, March 19 Women's Tennis vs. Utah (at UNLV) Lacrosse at Colorado Men's Tennis at Army Baseball at St. Mary's 
.., Monday, March 21 Fencing at NCAA Championship (at Princeton) 
Tuesday, March 22 Baseball vs. ST. JOSEPH'S (at Kovaleski Stadium) 

PCT  REB  AVG  A  TP  AVG  
.813  105  4.0  140  572  22.0  
.811  186  7.4  19  283  11.3  
.717  87  4.0  30  235  10.7  
.534  189  7.0  12  253  9.4  
.811  27  1.3  46  170  8.1  
.742  35  1.3  45  133  4.9  
.667  50  1.9  16  106  4.2  
.581  136  5.0  18  90  3.3  
.704  17  0.7  37  53  2.0  
.667  28  1.3  3  40  1.8  
.455  16  1.3  0  15  1.3  
.000  13  . 1.0  2  10  0.8  
.625  1  0.1  0  7  0.6  
.732  973  36.0  368 1969  72.9  
.704  705  26.1  367 1694  62.7  


Scoreboard 
Basketball 

Men Notre Dame 72, Marquette 50 Notre Dame 100, Hardin-Simmons 71 
Women Notre Dame 79, Illinois-Chicago 50 
Hockey Notre Dame 5, Lake Forest 3 Notre Dame 5, Michigan-Dearborn 2 
Wrestling Second at NCAA West regional 
Baseball Indiana 7, Notre Dame 4 Indiana 10, Notre Dame 1 
Swimming 

Men Notre Dame places 4th in Midwest Indepen­dent Invitational Championships 
Tennis 

Men Notre Dame 9, Marquette 0 Ohio State 7, Notre Dame 2 
Women Ohio State 7, Notre Dame 2 Michigan 5, Notre Dame 4 
Sites of 1988 NCAA Championships 
First and Second Rounds 
Thurs., Mar. 17 and Sat., Mar. 19 East--Smith Center, Chapel Hill, N.C. Southeast--Omni, Atlanta, Ga. Midwest--Joyce ACC, Notre Dame, Ind. West--Special Events Center, Salt Lake City, Utah 
Fri., Mar.18 and Sun., Mar. 20 East--Civic Center, Hartford, Conn. Southeast--Riverfront Coliseum, Cin­cinnati, Ohio 
Midwest--Devaney Sports Center, Lin­coln, Neb. West--Pauley Pavillion, Los Angeles, Calif. 
'spring Tr~ining 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Montreal  3  0  1.000  
Chicago  3  1  .750  .5  
Pittsburgh  3  1  .750  .5  
Philadelphia  2  .500  1.5  
St. Louis  1  2  .333  2  
N.Y. Mats  0  2  .0  2.5  

West


Wrestlemania IV Pairings 
Los Angeles 4 0 1.000 The pairings set by the World Wres­new WWF champion. The title has 
Cincinnati 2 1 .667 1.5 tling Federation for the upcoming been vacant since the controversial 
Houston 2 2 .500 2 'Wrestlemanla IV' In April. The wrestler 'Main Event' battle between Andre the 
San Diego 2 .333 2.5 Atlanta 3 .250 3
who survives this test of pure athletic Giant and then-champion Hulk Hogan 
San Franciso 3 .250 3
ability and endurance will become the last month. 
Wednesday's Games 

N.Y. Mets vs. Baltimore --·(at Miami, Fla.)
Andre The G•ant N.Y. Yankees vs. Texas ---(at Port Charlotte, Fla.) Boston vs. Chicago ·--(at Sarasota, Fla.) Cincinnati vs. Los Angeles ---(at Vero Beach, Fla.) 

·Hacksaw • J1m Duggan 


Irish Basketball 
··The M1111on Dollar Man" 
Don "The Rock' Muraco 

PLAYER G-S MIN-AVG David Rivers 26-26 952-37 
D1no Bravo 

Gary Voce 25-25 801-32 RICky "The Dream" Steamboat 
Mark Stevenson 22-16 651-30 
Keith Robinson 27·13 660-24 Greg Valentine 
Joe Fredrick 21-13 477-23 Randy "Macho Man" Savage 
Jamere Jackson 27-20 566-21 Sean Connor 26-5 359-14 Butc~ "The Natural" Reed 
t--------...1 
Scott Paddock 27-16 493-18 Tim Singleton 26-1 203-8
Bam Bam BIQelow 

Kevin Ellery 22-0 153-7 Steve Nicgorski · 12-0 26-2
One Man Gang 

Tony Jackson 13-0 60-5 Jake "The Snake" Roberts 
Chris Nanni 12-0 24-2 
California vs. Chicago Cubs ·--(at Mesa, Ariz.) Oakland vs. San Francisco ··-(Scottsdale, Ariz.) Cleveland at Seattle ----(Tempe, Ariz.) 
Through Tuesday 
FG-FGA  PCT  3PT-3PA  PCT  FT-FTA  
189-430  .440  42-99  .424  152-187  
105-1g4  .541  0-1  .000  73-90  
101-200  .505  0-1  .000  33-46  
111-170  .653  0-1  .000  31-58  
69-123  .561  2-4  .500  30-37  
53-103  .515  4-13  .308  23-31  
45-111  .405  14-33  .424  4-6  
36-63  .571  0-0  .000  16-31  
17-31  .548  0-1  .000  19-27  
13-29  .448  o-o  .000  14-21  
5·13  .385  0-1  .000  5-11  
5-8  .625  0-0  .000  0-3  
1-10  .100  0-1  .000  5-8  

NOTRE DAME 27-27 5425 750-1485 .505 62-155 .400 407-556 
"Ravishing" A1ck Rude 

OPPONENTS 27-27 5425 668-1449 .461 80-212 .an 278-395 
appy 20th Birthday, Mark 

You Haven't Changed A Bit 
-':;:~:~·' 



Applications f()r 
JPW 


CHAIRPERSON 
1989 

are available starting March 8 in Student Activities Office 




Keady top dog •
1n Big 10 
Associated Press went on to their fifth NCAA season at home on Saturday 
title. against Minnesota. The NCAA 
"I don't have any monkey on seedings and first-round 
WEST LAFAYETTE -my back," says Keady, who pairings will be announced on 
Second-ranked Purdue, has never taken the Boiler­Sunday. The Big Ten is ex­
already assured of its first out-makers past the second round pected to get at least four other 
right Big Ten basketball cham-of the national tournament. bids to the tourney besides 
pionship since 1969 and an au-"I've had a lot of success Purdue's automatic spot as 
tomatic berth in the NCAA here. I guess it depends on what conference champion. 
tournament, has compiled the you consider success. Is sue­
best record in the conference cess winning a national title or In other Purdue news, Mel­
over the past eight years since having peace of mind? i sleep vin McCants of Purdue's 
Gene Keady became coach. awfully well at night. I'm second-ranked Boilermakers 
happy with what I do and I look has been selected by the Asso­
Going into Wednesday forward to coming to work ciated Press as the Big Ten 
night's game at Ohio State, the every day, so I'm not trying to basketball Player of the Week. 
Boilermakers were 99-43 under get a monkey off my back. 
Keady. McCants, a 6-9, 225-pound 
"Sure we want to win the na­junior from Chicago's Mount 
Purdue shared the Big Ten tional championship, that's the Carmel, scored 24 points and 
championship with Indiana bottom line. But if we don't win had 10 rebounds in Purdue's 80­
AP Photo
last year but was eliminated in it, it doesn't mean we're not 67 victory over Michigan, 
Purdue players celebrate their recent Big Ten championship­
the second round of the NCAA successful." which clinched the Big Ten title 
winning victory over Michigan. The Boilermakers are the most suc­
tourney while the Hoosiers Purdue finishes the regular for the Boilermakers. 
~r_..____________________________........______
cessful Big Ten team In the last eight years. 
n.0.....Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, eccepta clasalfled edwlrtlalng from 10 Lm. untll4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a...-Saint Mwy's office, located on the third floor of H-ov-Collge Center,.ccepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne tor nex1-0ay clasaltleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must 
be pntpMf, either In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five charKtenl per day. 




Classifieds 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MO TO JACK AND JANET··Hi, want a ciga·LOST: My camera from 205 of the first Enjoy Coke 
YOU ARE NOW AN OLD WOMAN rette? You're the BEST with a capital W 
building of Campuavlew Saturday 
HOPE YOUR 22ND IS GREAT!! !!! Keep those 11.3 brain cells safe over night. Please return tt. Brand new gilt Enjoy Coke 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
-JOAN break !!! ·The BONE from my Dad. Call 271-0844. 
Enjoy Coke

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2n4 NIGHT; Electra Westone Bass ¢ Marshall Bass20 thank you st. jude for prayers answered­
FOUND:Dorrn key £352. Found in front of Moreau Seminary on St. Joe's Lake. 
2n-1051 DAY. Amp. Together or separate. Marty 1106 CONGRATS J Kline & J Murillo! You bet· cj 
ter invite me to the wedding Best Wishes, Call Jim Palmer at 239·n35.
TYPING AVAILABLE NEW CAR STEREO:doesn't fit my True to Uta, a lecture by Lawrence CP Q: WHAT DO JOHANA SANCHEZ AND 287-4082 car,AMFM,tape,40WT AL PACINO HAVE IN COMMON ?? A:
Weschler on the exhibition, Photographs by David Hockney has
spkrs,booster,$100 negotiable-Everyone call and wish MAURA THEY BOTH HAVE A 'SCARFACE' ! LOST Greg287 ·3934 been changed to 4 pm, March 9, An­KRAUSE Happy Birthday II ..Mars, it's "SCARFACE" SANCHEZ FOR U.M.O.C. WORDPROCESSING-TYPING all coming together ... but you DO look
ONE PAIR OF SILVER PRESCRIPTION nenberg Aud., Snite Museum of Art. 
272-8827 GLASSES IN A BLUE HARD CASE. 1979 Toyota Cellca Hatchback, $1,000, like your dad. Love, Kim (shall we play LOST AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Brother· 
23&-8859 (day), 2n-9834 (night). a name game?) BETWEEN THE ACC AND THE MAIN Sister Camps seeking staff, all transpor· 
Hey PEBBLE BEACH!!!!! The official tan· ADOPTION: Loving couple, physician CIRCLE. PLEASE CALL JOE AT 4842. FOR SALE: ONE WAY BUS TICKET tation paid. Call collect: (215) 663-0366. u. N. o. c. 
ning season has begunll! Bring on the and paychologlst, dHply wlahea to FROM D.C. TO N.D. AFTER BREAK. See us at LaFortune Student Center on ... ugly nan on campus ... 
rays!!! Summer is almost here!!!! adopt newborn. Welcoming warm fam­LOST: TWO CALCULATORS ON CALL 1813 OR 2721. BEST OFFER. Thurs., Mar. 24 from 11 am -4 pm. u. N. o. c. Ily, love, opportunttleal Expenaea THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26TH I THINK paid. Legal, confidential. Call Ellie and AT THE NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL Macintosh 512K-Enhanced; BOOK RAM; Alan collect 212-724-7942. GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 1075. Microsoft Word, Excel, and more. Greg, I may be incredibly shy about it, 0: WHAT DO JOHANA SANCHEZ AND $900;Call 283-2740; TONIGHT ONLY but I still think you're awesome. A LEECH HAVE IN COMMON ? A: Get ready for Spring Break by selling The Danny's Run to end all Danny's THEY'RE BOTH PARASITES, BUT ONE unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan­Fender D'Aquisto Arch·top Jazz Gu~ar; Runa. LEAVES A RING AND THE OTHER Don't mlsalt...
dora's Books 808 Howard (1 blocl< off FOR RENT Ebony fingerboard, bridge, and tailpiece; NEEDS A RING... 'SCARFAE' ND Ave). Open 7 days/ week 10-5:30. one humbucker; black; like new; $525; THE REGATTA IS COMING!!! THE SANCHEZ FOR U.M.O.C. !! Call 283-27 40 ·······························································
REGATTA IS COMING!!! SEE YOUR FAST, QUAUTY TYPING SWG. 258-RENT CHGO APTI Sunny, lg 1 br In HALL PRESIDENT FOR DETAILS I NEED A RIDE TO CT OR THE NY 
4643 vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd !Ira, fan, NEW 13" PORT BW TV. $50 277·4149 MR. STANFORD MANIA!!! CATCH IT!!! AREA FOR BREAK. MAURA 3738 btnda, eet-ln kit, dw, walk-In clats, Enough of this Irish THANKS bamtatorage, tndry. 112 blk to Lk Shore One way plane ticket for sale, O'Hare to Stuff already ... 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Dr bua, 2 blk to el train, Wrtgtey. $850. Orange County, CA. Open booking, good Happy t NEED A RIDE PHILLY! Help!I John MRS. COKER, 233-70011. Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871-3397 (ND '80) until May 25. Call Sr. Mary at 287-7027 Kelly o·-St. Joseph's x2004 early a.m. or nights; or message in library Vaya con Dloa, Htja! Day I NEED RIDE FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­carrel835. Amor. Sally and Dutch-Lock your doors! FROM PITTSBURGH BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-0955-255-Padre y Madre S..n McGrath has two down and two 
after spring break! 3684 GET A PIECE OF THE ROCK WORM IV WORM IV WORM IV SHIRTS to gol! Can you help me out??? If so, please Knute Acckne stamp first covers! SHIRTS SHIRTS £ 2038 call Kevin at 239-5303. I will greatly ap­2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID A real ND collectors ~em. Action & Friends: preciate ~ ... 288-Q955 Only 1,000 printed. Going fast for $2. Haata luego! THE YEAR OF THE BRAVES SAL BAL, THANKS FOR EVERY·It beglna on April 5.
Call Steve £1209 to order Enjoy Cancunttt 
THING! BY THE WAY HOW IS YOUR Padra y Madra WEEK GOING? 
House for rent: safe area. 5 furnished Q. What two things will spend time in

I LOST/FOUND I 

BEWARE OF FALLING EGGS!
bedrooms. 2 large living rooms 2 full Need ride to DC area for Spring break Atlanta this summer, then win 1988 fall baths. Eat-in kitchen. Private parking lot: 
Call lngo X 2460 with good news classics? Lost, a black, herringbone overcoat at security lights. Outdoor basketball court. A. The Braves and Mike Dukakis. 
HEADS UP FOR CALCULATORS!
Room for 5 students. Avilable: Fall 1988. 
The Commons. It had a checkbook with RUG BUG RUG BUG RUG BUG Have

PERSONALS
,_ my name on ~ in the breast pocket and $575.00 per month e util~ies e deposit. your carpet professionaffy cleaned by keys in another. H you picked ~ up on Call: Bruce: 234·3831 evenings and The Rug Bug. Dorm rooms $7.00. Off­SHARPEN YOUR CROSSWORD PEN­
weekends. Ron Wisniewski..Congrads for qualifing CILS!
Tuesday night, I'd appreciate a call. You OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, campus negotiable. We also do furniture. 
can keep the coat but I desperately need ................................................................ CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Call Sammy at x3382 TODAY 
for Nationals you will be there with the
those keys. Call at, 27Hl683 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
best of the best Luv An..
Hey Stolpman, It's me again and I wanted GET READY TO PARTY!
WANTED BEACH to tell you that sexual awareness is im­Isn't ~ bad enough
BASH '88 portant and I'm awre of your ? 
that we named this school
LOST! LOSTH LOST It LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL after them? E ENGINEERS' WEEK IS ON ITS WAY!!! 
t LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAD­WANTED: BLOOD PLASMA DONERS. Beachfront hotel, right on strip, close to I NEED A RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS OR 
Happy MARCH 21 -25 SET ON WEDNESDAY, »118. Help aeve a lila and eem extra cash all bars and nightlife. Only $14sperson CLOSE ON THURSDAY AFTERNOON St. Joseph's
WHERE? IN THE VARSrTY st the same time. New and old donors (4-toom) for 8 sunny days, and 7 crazy 3-10 ITS ON THE WAY TO FLORIDA Day!
WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASE! who have not given within 30-daya wilt nights of wild Florida fun. See Ya There. NICK 2101 or 2100 LAST CHANCE!!!
be paid $12, cash alter donating HyouIF YOU LAST CHANCEl!!
brtng In this ad. Corne to Arnelcan YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les·
PICKED IT UP, CALL ME TO RETURN St. Edward's Hall Invites you to hear LAST CHANCE!!!
tT. IT WOULD BE GREAnY Ptaama on Tuaaday, Wednesday, bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College Fr. Richard McBrien, chairman of the SENIOR FORMAL BID SALES 
APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY Frtday or Saturday. 515 Llncolnway P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. theology department apeak on TONIGHT 
FRIEND. Wast, South Bend, 234-6010. Confidentiality Guaranteed. "Modem Challengers to Catholicism." Don't look now, Ethel 6PM-8PM 
THANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1382 The talk will be given on Wednesday, She's rolling down the window and hold· LAFORTUNE-NEW ORLEANS ROOM
GOING TO D.C. FOR BREAK???? We AAJAX March 9, at 8 p.m. In the lela! floor ing up a. 
LEMANS HALL LOBBYwant to share rides w~h you! Beth needs lounge ol St. Ed's. 
LAST CHANCE TO BUY BIDSttta there, needs back.
FOUND: ONE SET OF CAR KEYS WITH ride Amy one NEED!! 
LAST CHANCE TO BUY BtDSttt
LEATHER RING IN D6 PARKING LOT. PLEASE call Beth 2851 or Amy 4525 A RIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON· To my favorite Latin miler, Mrs Wonder· LAST CHANCE TO BUY BtDSttt 
CALL 283-2824 TO CLAIM. CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 11 ON THE SOPHOMORE SIBS lui, NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING SOPHOMORE SIBS One week early is better than two weeks LOST: men's gold chain JPW weekend SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIII!IIItt BREAK!! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON SOPHOMORE SIBS late. I hope 
THANKS JUDE 

(2'1 9) at Bridget or Sen. bar. I've looked CALL CAROL at 271~868 ASAP. THURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP Aprtl15-17, 1988 your birthday is a special one, wish 1 everywhere. Call Matt-4506 Sent. Value CALL THERESA AT X4238. Info. meeting March 9-ND ROOM could be here. 
(LAFORTUNE)-7:30 PM ALL WEL­Your favorite undercard, Mr Wonderful I lost my camera at Bridgets on Thursday RESORT HOTELS, NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­COME! HAPPY BIRTHDAY KERRY SHEEDY!! night (at least I think I lost ~ there). My Crulsellnes,Airtlnes & Amuaement SEE FOR EASTER BREAK!!!t!lll (OR Watch out guys--the Mash Queen is le­senses were not functioning maximally, Parka NOW accepting applications lor ANY WHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY) ADWORKS gal. Kiss those probation and if I asked you to take a picture or summer jobs,lntemshlps and career PLEASE CALL CAROL at 271~868. Things We Won't Miss XVII: Is looking lor people with computer worries goodbye and let's get CRAZY me and my friends and neglected to get posltlons.For Information & applica­Ice Cream Lines and design experience (CAD students, tonight! the camera back from you, I would greatly tion, write National Collegiate Recrea­"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY listen up!) Learn ad dealgn and earn Your partner in crime, Kathy appreciate its return. If you happened to tion, P.O.Box 8074, Hilton Head ls­GOAT IS?" money tool Call 239-6757 alter 3 lor find ~ on the floor or table I would also tand,SC 29938. I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR more Info. greatly appreciate its return. The lilm in NEED RIDE SPRING BREAKIII I'm going to Exit 12 the camera has great value to me. Please NEED RIDE FROM PITTSBURGH ON FROM PITTSBURGH on the Ohio Turnpike (or anywhere Are you taking a plane out of Michiana The Soph. Committee would like to contact J.C. at 1209 if found. SUNDAY, MARCH 20. PLEASE CALL after spring break! close). I can leave Friday, after 10am. Regional on Friday? Don't spend all your know what happened to the ssooe we 
MIKE AT 27Hl656. Can you help me out??? If so, please Will share driving and EXPENSES. CALL Break $on a cab just to get there. Take esmad. Maybe It really did take that Lost:Mens class ring. On Fri. Mar.3 in call Kevin at 239-5303. I will greatly ap­DAN AT 1155. the Student Gov't Domer Shuttle on much to buy a sub and a keg -but the huddle or on the way to Keenan. It DRIVING TO TULSA OR ALBER­preciate L. Friday for only $2. Buses leave Main how would we know? You only Invited has my name in it, so if you find it QUERQUE FOR BREAK? PLEASE HELP!I! I need a ride to New Jersey for Circle from 12·4 pm on the hour. hall of us to ~~~f.~.~~;hanka a tot. PLEASE give me a call. The REWARD TAKE ME. CAN GIVE MORE THAN MY break. If you're going to north Jersey or 
could provide for an exciting spring SHARE OF EXPENSES AND DRUIV· NAN for UMOC anywhere near there (the state is only SHE doesn't have the potential to get break.£1239 lNG. DESPARATE! CAN LEAVE NAN for UMOC so big!) and want to share expenses wet. ANYTIME AFTER 10:00 THURS. NAN for UMOC please give me a call. Colleen £4021 KATHY MORAN 
HELPIII LOST WATCH A GRUEN PLEASE CALL TIM 1856 Mtml P., 3 days and counting ... WATCH WITH A LEATHER BAND AND "It's gonna get ugly." MKM Even though you've now lost 2 bets Who's this Dave character? I'm SQUARE FACE WAS LOST LAST DEC. WINNETKA, tL lam tkg lor daytime atu­(Well, UGLIERI) to me, I still love you even if "girts can jealous. 
MAYBE LOST IN BRIGETS. VERY HIGH dent aa summer girt. 312-446-3171 tell easier". Statistics lie, esp. 1 about And Nancy P ., Top 5 reasons why JACK KEMP SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OF­eves. girts & sex. Have a sweet break in that Why only term papers? Why not din­should NOT be President: FERED. IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING IRISH MUSIC IRISH MUSIC!!! bikini I will eventually see. THE BOXER. ner? 1.His political supporters are UNTRUTH­ABOUT IT CALL 277·3226 I NEED A AIDE TO JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS AT FUL 2.His pomics split up comradships 
CLEVELAN[)IAKRON AREA for spring MR. CHRISTIAN'S DILEMA ON LOST GRUEN WATCH, BROWN BAND, ·A Twins Fan 3.He's BORING 4.He THINKS he's a FOUND: WATCH IN ENGINEERING break. I will share expenses. Call Dave PRAIRIE AVE NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA SQUARE FACE, HIGH SENTIMENTAL womanizer 5.Super Tuesday USED to AUD. ON THURS. MARCH 3. CALL 3702 at x4719. EVERY FRI AND SAT 8-12 VALUE CALL 277-3226 be big in Missouri, NOT ANYMORE! 


Wednesday, March 9, 1988 The Observer page 11 

Senior center 
Botham will be missed 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Threatening. 
Take a look at Sandy Botham and you won't think she's threatening. 
Put her on the basketball court, and Botham poses a real threat to any and all opponents of the Notre Dame women's basketball team. The 6'2" senior center from Madison, Wis. plays a complete game for the Irish. 
"Coming into this season, I wanted to be a force for other teams to deal with," Botham says. "I wanted to get all the parts of the game together. I've been strong this season in scoring and rebounding, but the main thing to me is to be consistent." 
Botham's coach, Muffet McGraw, echoes Botham's personal assessment almost to the word. 
"She's really done it all this season," says McGraw. "She's been really strong in rebound­ing and scoring, and most im­portantly, she's been consis­tent." 
That consistency is begin­ning to show up in the Irish record books. Botham has ap­peared in more games (112) than any player in Irish wo­men's basketball history, and her 26 points against Val­paraiso on Feb. 25 moved her into second place on the all­time scoring list. Currently third in career rebounds, Bot-ham can jump to second with 15 more rebounds this season. 
Botham's scoring average has steadily risen from 9.4 points per game her freshman year to 15.5 this season. She also pulls down 7.8 rebounds per contest for the Irish. When Botham teams with frontcourt mate Heidi Bunek, the inside game is a force that not many teams this season have been able to deal with. 
"Most of our offenses are geared toward getting the ball to the big people," Botham says. "Teams we play have to set up their defenses around that. Then that will help the guards, and they'll shoot bet­ter, and so on." 
The inside-outside combina­tion has put the Irish at a 19-7 mark going into tonight's con­test against Northern Illinois. Botham has certainly done her share, totalling double figures in 24 of Notre Dame's 26 con­tests and leading the team in rebounds 14 times, including the team's season-high 20 against DePaul. 
In addition to scoring and rebounding, Botham contri­butes in less tangible aspects as well. 
"She's really good for the rest of the team," McGraw says. "She's great on defense, she's enthusiastic on the bench, she keeps the team loose. Sandy's a real leader." 
While Botham recieved the physical attributes for basket­ball from her parents, the rest 0f her game married into the 
BUS TRIP TO THE ART INSTITUTE AND MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART IN CHICAGO 
Sponsored by the Department of Art. Art History and Design, and the Office of the College Fellow. 
WHEN: Tuesday, March 22, 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM. WHERE: Two buses will leave from in front of the CCE at 9:00 AM and arrive back at Notre Dame at approximately 7:00 PM. COST: $8.00. TICKETS FOR THE TRIP may be purchased in Room 129 O'Shag, on Tuesday and Thursday from 8:00 to 4:30, and Wednesday and Friday from 8:00 to 12:00 noon. 
For more information call ext. 7602. 
family. Her brother-in-law, Joe Sweeney, encouraged Botham to work to become a top caliber player. 
"He's kind of a fanatic about basketball," Botham says. "When he knew that I was in­terested and had some talent, then he worked with me all the time. 
"My dad built a half-court in our back yard, and Joe would take me out there and work with me, and he'd go running with me. He helped me a lot." 
Botham says Sweeney was a terrific player himself in high school, but, although he could have, he did not seriously pursue the game in college. His work with Botham continues to pay off for Notre Dame. 
"He's always followed my games in college and kept an eye on me," Botham says. "He'll take stats during the game. Not so much now, but when I was younger, he'd tell me what I did right and what I did wrong. 
"Sometimes I felt like saying 'oh, Joe, I'm sick of it,' but he always has good advice. He's really helped me." 
That help will pay off tonight as Botham and the Irish hit the road to take on Northern Illi­nois. 
"It will be an extremely physical game," McGraw says. "They (the Huskies) are really scoring a lot of points. It can be tough going out on the road, and we're really going to have to play well to beat them." 

The Observer I Rob Regovich Sandy Botham (52) has been an Integral part of the successful women's basketball team this season. Theresa Kelly features the senior center at left. 
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. 


Rivers
If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfftces 
continued from page 16

and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
L~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiji~ anyone. Those who are able to 
• Group Charters &Tours  • Card Tables  
• Restrooms  • Radios  
• Your DESIGNATED Driver  • Tape Players  


CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
r ____________________C~IJI~ ~~p_S~Yl~J9j{_I~E.Y!:~Ii~CI~ _-~-_____________________ 
1 
participate and try out, hope­fully they'll let them do just that. It's always been a goal of mine, and it's coming to the forefront. I want to make as much of it as I can." 
Following the Olympics, · Rivers is looking forwward to an NBA career, something that has made this year a little dif­
ferent  than  his  first  three  
years.  
"It's  been  difficult,  but  I  

think it's been successful," Rivers says of his senior season. "I think this year 
I 
I people were more critical of me I I and my performance on the court simply because I not only 
The Mall at SunChase 
have to, in a sense, please the 1004 Padre Blvd. coaches, but I also have to do



'\1l 

t ~.,.)1L the things that will make the
~~~«.;.;.ooc 

1/2 Block North of the Hilton 
NBA scouts see that I'm capa­ble of being an effective NBA player and NBA point guard. 

March 13th to 19th, 1988 
And so I think this year the 
10:00 a.m. to 9:30p.m. coaches have been more criti­cal of me and my performance on the court than ever." 

Please drop by to say hello. Present your Notre 
But while the coaches have


Dame/Saint Mary's College I.D. and take 
been more critical, Rivers says advantage of the services provided: 1 that his relationship with 
1 
' 
Phelps has grown into one of mutual respect. 
"It's changed in a sense that from day one it's gotten better and better, closer and closer," Rivers says. "Although there are times he doesn't agree with something I might do or the way I may feel about someth­ing or I may not agree with how he feels about certain things, that comes with the respect we have for one another. It's 
I 
~ grown in that sense."


L----------------------------------------------------------------------­



page 12 The Observer 
Rockne a permanent part of Irish football mystique 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Knute Rockne, a raw-boned Nor­wegian immigrant whose locker-room orations inspired the Fighting Irish to three na­tional championships and in­directly helped make Ronald Reagan a star, is still a part of the Notre Dame football mys­tique. 
A master at motivating his players with such pleas as "Win one for the Gipper," Rockne was killed on March 31, 1931, in an airplane crash that stunned the nation. 
Reagan, who played the role of the Gipper in a 1940 movie, will be at Notre Dame on Wed­nesday for the issuance of a commemorative postage stamp in Rockne's honor. The 22-cent stamp is the sixth in a sports series that also includes Bobby Jones, Babe Zaharias, Babe Ruth, Roberto Clemente and Jim Thorpe. 
"You would have thought the world had come to an end," recalled Edward "Moose" Krause, former Notre Dame athletic director who was a freshman during Rockne's last year as football coach in 1930. "He had a tremendous charisma. He was part philos­opher and part psychologist. One moment he could have you crying, the next moment laugh­ing." 
As a player at Notre Dame, Rockne was credited with making the forward pass a legitimate offensive weapon, although he was a receiver for quarterback Gus Dorais. The pass first gained widespread notice in the 1913 Notre Dame­Army game at West Point, and the series became one of col­lege football's greatest inter­sectional rivalries and the set­ting for many of Rockne's best-remembered stories. 
Rockne became coach of the Fighting Irish in 1918. 
It was in 1924 that the most famous backfield in college football history -Elmer Layden, Don Miller, Harry Stuhldreher and Jim Crowley, better known as the Four Horsemen -gained recognition in a 13-7 victory over Army at the Polo Grounds in New York. 
The 1928 meeting was the fa­mous game won for the Gipper. 
As the story goes, Notre Dame trailed 6-0 at halftime. Then, during intermission, Rockne inspired the Irish by recounting a deathbed scene eight years earlier in which George Gipp, stricken with strep throat, told his coach: 
"I've got to go, Rock. It's all right. I'm not afraid. Some time, Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. 
"I don't know where I'll be then, Rock. But I'll know about it, and I'll be happy." 
After hearing Rockne's story about the legendary Notre Dame All-American, the fired­up Irish came back with two touchdowns in the second half and won 12-6. 
Reagan first visited Notre Dame in the summer of 1940 for the making of "Knute Rockne -All-American," a movie that launched the future president's Hollywood career. Reagan and the late Pat O'Brien, who played Rockne and recommended the then­unknown Reagan for the sup­porting role as the Gipper, received honorary degrees at Notre Dame in 1981. 
As to whether the Gipper deathbed story is true, Krause says, "I wasn't there, but I've talked to guys who were.... They swear it happened just like in the movies." 
The year after the game was won for the Gipper, Notre Dame closed an undefeated season by beating Army 7-0 for the national championship. 
In 1930, Rockne's last year as coach, the Irish edged the Cadets 7-6 before 120,000 fans at Chicago's Soldier Field. The 1930 season also was the first year in the present Notre Dame Stadium, and the Irish finished 10-0 for another national crown. 
Four months later, the 43­year-old Rockne, on his way to California to make a football demonstration movie, was among eight people killed when their airplane flew into a storm, became covered with ice and fell into a wheat field near Bazaar, Kan. 

Pena hopes for big turnaround 
Wednesday, March 9, 1988 
Sports Briefs . 
The Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight in 204 O'Shaughnessy at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
Aerobic instructor applications are now available at non-varsity athletics for 1988-89 positions. Interested students students should submit their applications no later April I. Call239-6400 for more information. -The Observer 
In college basketball last night, Bradley won the Missouri Valley Conference title with an 83-59 win over Illinois State. Elsewhere, in the Atlantic 10, Rhode Island beat host team West Virginia, 65-63, to earn the right to face top-ranked Temple in the finals. The Owls swamped St. Joseph's 79-67. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrQugh Observer advertising. Call239·5303 fQr details. 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad· uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital. you w1ll receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation where you will further develop your professional sk1lls. Beyond orientation. you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class med1cal center can provide. 
Spring grarJuates apply now for positions available 
in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit 
package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo 
Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose 
growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital. Personnel Services. 
Nursing Recruitment Section. 201 West Center Street, 
Rochester, MN 55902. (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist HosRital 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSI'ITAI. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­After one season, the Tony Pena trade looks like a big flop for the St. Louis Cardinals. 
But Pena certainly hasn't lost hope of being all that the Cardinals had hoped for when they got him in a trade with the Pittsburgh Pirates on April Fools' Day last year. 
After struggling through his

·-worst season by far in 1987, the man voted "most-popular Pirate" in 1986 is anxious to show the Cardinals it wasn't bad judgment on their part to give up three promising players -who each fulfilled that promise -for him. "I know I can hit," Pena said Tuesday before the Cardinals played his former team in an exhibition game at AI Lang Stadium Tuesday. "I'm no .214 hitter. I've just got to forget about last year." 
That's not easy because of the statistics of pitcher Mike Dunne, center fielder Andy Van Slyke and catcher Mike LaValliere, the three players the Cardinals traded. 
Dunne was 13-6 with a 3.03 earned run average -second in the National League -in his rookie season. Van Slyke hit .293 with 21 home runs and 82 runs batted in, and La Valliere hit .300 and was one of the league's best defensive catchers. 
Pena broke his left thumb April 10 when he was hit by a pitch in his first appearance against the Pirates as a visiting player, and never recovered. The four-time All-Star and 

three-time Gold Glove winner fensive skills suffered: he was could do almost nothing right. a career-low 30 percent in 
He hit .183 after the All-Star throwing out runners attempt­break, his batting average ing to steal. sagged under .200 for four of the season's six months, and he While maintaining his sunny hit into 19 double plays, third­disposition on the outside, he most in the National League. was confused and disheartened To make matters worse, his de-on the inside. 
The Notre Dame Club 
of New York City 
Cordially invites all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in New York City d1.1ring Spring Break to march with the club up New York's 5th Avenue in the 227th Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade. 

Assemble at 3:45 p.m. on 48th Street (between Madison & 5th-look for our banner) A party will follow the parade at Duffy's (2nd Avenue & 89th) 


Wednesday, March 9, 1988 The Observer 
Irish prepare for grueling 
road trip 
Ry GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
During spring break, while many Notre Dame students bask in golden rays of sunlight, the men's tennis team heads to the northeast for a five-match road trip. 
The Irish have yet to play away during this spring season. They are 9-5 at home and are coming off a tough loss to Ohio State. 
Travelling east instead of taking the traditional warm­weather trip will allow the Irish to play schools they've never met before. The road trip begins at Penn State on Satur­day. Notre Dame men's tennis has not taken on the Nittany Lions since 1925. 
On Tuesday the Irish move on to Cambridge, where they will play Massachusetts In-
over spring break 
stitute of Technology for the first time. Irish coach Bob Bayliss came from M.I.T. where he coached for three seasons. 
Bayliss is looking forward to returning to his old school. 
"I didn't·start at Notre Dame until August and was late in planning a spring trip," Bayliss said. "Because the NCAA only allows a school to play 30 dates, the warmer col­leges were booked. Playing in the East will be different. We'll have a good scouting report on M.I.T." 
Notre Dame then goes to Bos­ton College where it will also face the Eagles for the first time. The most difficult match of the trip will be on Thursday when the Irish battle Harvard. Harvard is regularly in the top 
20. Despite a few injuries, Har­vard will definitely be favored over Notre Dame. 
West Point is the final stop on Notre Dame's eastern trip. The Irish face the Cadets of West Point on Saturday at 1 
p.m. before returning to South Bend. 
For the seniors on the tennis team, this will be the last in a memorable line of spring­break trips. Senior Paul Daggs sees a major difference in this year's trip. 
"We're used to heading south or to California," Daggs said. "Playing in the cold will be a new experience. Harvard is really good. We'll give it our best shot." 
Daggs is anxious to head east for the first time. 
"It should be fun," Daggs said. "My only regret is that I won't be coming back with a tan." 

The men's tennis team Is gearing up for a tough east coast road swing over spring break. George Travers previews the trip at left. 
PW wins hoops title over Breen-Phillips 

Things have been better for the Cardinals' Tony Pena. The much-maligned catcher Is coming off a subpar year with the national league champions. 
Special to The Observer 
Pasquerilla West finished its undefeated season in women's Interhall basketball by downing Breen-Phillips 37-29 Monday night in the Joyce ACC pit to capture the 1988 title. 
"We didn't do anything dif­ferent," said PW coach Gary Sasse. "It's like I told them before the game. We have a lot of talent and it was just a mat­ter of going out and getting the job done." 
PW did the job with its diamond-and-one trap and an aggressive zone defense, weap­ons Sasse's squad have used ef­fectively throughout the year. BP countered with a zone of its own, but PW freshman Jill Bodensteiner hit a few quick jumpers over it and gave her team the early edge. 
Bodensteiner finished the game with 10 points. Pandora Fecko, also a freshman, led PW and all scorers with 16 points, including 14 in the first half and a three-pointer. 

Sophomore Cynthia Guckien had 13 points in the losing effort for BP. 
"We didn't utilize our height advantage," said BP captain Carol Cavaliere. "They were pressing us, but I felt we han­dled it pretty well at first. They started forcing turnovers in the second quarter and pulled away." 
PW held a 21-11 halftime lead, and stretched it to 15 at one point in the second half. Sasse finished out the game with some of the PW sub­stitutes. 
"It was a great year," said Sasse, who coached PE to the championship last year. "We knew we had the talent to have this kind of a season." 
Quests 
continued from page 16 
If God made Notre Dame No. 1, on what day did He create Miami Hurricane football -­and couldn't He have rested on that day too? 
Why doesn't someone just give Valparaiso their old bas­ketball uniforms so we never again have to see the ungodly creations they currently wear? 
What would you rather see, a group playing hackeysack or lacrosse on your quad? 

When I came here four years ago, I always said, 'Just get me to one major bowl while I'm here and I'll be happy.' Why do I feel differently now? 
Do you think, while watching Notre Dame game films, some coach somewhere in the nation sometime this year tried to con­vince one of his players that was struggling at the line to shoot free throws like Steve Nicgorski? 
Why do cheerleaders see it necessary to do flips, hand­stands and other bodily gyra­tions (not to mention those con­tinual high-fives) instead of leading cheers? 
Time is running out and the 
quest for knowledge continues. 


page 14 


Big Ten coaches urge consistency 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--Teams heading into the NCAA basketball tournment should avoid making any major changes in their style of play and should contemplate only subtle adjust­ments, Big Ten coaches agreed Tuesday. 
That consensus was clear in the weekly telephone news con­ference of Big Ten basketball coaches, at least five of whom are expected to land squads in the 64-team tournament. 
Purdue, ranked No. 2 and having clinched a tournament bid by winning the Big Ten title, will lead the way. Others figure to be lOth-ranked Mic­higan, 15th-ranked Iowa, 19th­ranked Illinois and defending NCAA champion Indiana. 
"Don't change what you've done," advised Jud Heathcote, whose Michigan State Spartans won the NCAA in 1979. "Play your game and make some subtle defensive adjustmemnts for the team you're playing." 
Purdue Coach Gene Keady is pleased that his team didn't have to go down to the final game of the season to clinch the title. The Boilermakers did it last week with an 80-67 vic­tory over Michigan and have games remaining at Ohio State and against Minnesota. 
"We have decided to treat these last two games like a Big Ten tournament," said Keady. "This is an unusual opportunity for us. Hopefully, we'll be into the games and try to improve our half-court game." 
Tom Davis of Iowa and Lou 
Henson of Illinois will have no 
major preparations for the 
tournament. 
"You prepare every day of 
the season," said Davis. "I 
don't know if there is much to 
change. Sunday you find out 
who you play and then you 
touch up your game plan, 
depending on whether you are 
playing against a zone or man­
to-man defense." 
Henson agreed that making 
change was not the thing to do. 
"Do the things you've been 
doing and approach it as if it 
were another game," said Hen­
son. "If the players detect 
there is anything different, it 
could bother them. Approach 
the playoffs like a regular 
season game. 
"If you're not good enough, 
then you won't win it," he 
added. 
Michigan's Bill Frieder would like to head into the tournament on "an up kick," but the Wolverines have lost two of their last three games and are in danger of losing three-of-five if they lose at Illi­nois Wednesday night and close at home with a victory over Ohio State Saturday. 
"We're victims of schedul­ing," said Frieder who noted the last two losses have been at Iowa and at Purdue "where very few teams win." 
Frieder called the tourna­ment "a new season," noting Indiana lost two of its last three Big Ten games last season before .winning the NCAA. 


Harvard this 

summer 
June 27-August 19, 1988 
mm 
m 
IJ{larvard Summer School offers open-enroll­ment in day and evening courses. The curriculum includes courses that fulfill college degree requirements and programs designed for personal and professional development. 
Our international student body has access to Harvard's outstanding libraries, fine museums, well-equipped laboratories, cultural activi­ties, and nearby Boston. 
We feature a college-level program for secondary school juniors and seniors,* as well as a Dance Center and special programs in Health Professions,** Drama, Writing, Ukrainian Studies, and English as a Second Language. 
( 0admi.rsion required; •• for minoritY, and 
economically disadllanlDged students) 
For more information return the coupon below or CJJII (617) 495-2494 (24·/wur line). Plea.re allow 34 weelc.r for tkli•ery. 
For Knicks, no place like home 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The last time the New York Knicks won as many as 13 consecutive games at Madison Square Garden, they won the NBA champion­ship. 
That streak gets its toughest challenge Wednesday night when the Knicks play host to the Los Angeles Lakers, who have made a habit of putting lesser teams in their place this season. 
The Knicks extended the streak to 13 -longest since a 20­game run in the team's last championship season, 1972-73 ­when they beat the Chicago Bulls 110-98 Monday night in front of their fourth sellout crowd of the season. Another sellout is assured for the Lakers on Wednesday. 
"Can I at least enjoy beating the Bulls before I have to start thinking about the Lakers?" Knicks Coach Rick Pitino said when asked about Wednes­day's game. "We just got through dealing with Michael Jordan." 
The Lakers, whose 48-10 record is the best in the NBA by eight games, are 9-0 this season against Dallas, Boston, Atlanta and Detroit, the four teams expected to give them the most serious challenge to their NBA title. To Los An­geles, the game against the Knicks is just another date in an 82-game schedule. 
But to New York, even more important than the home win­ning streak is the four-team race with Cleveland, Washing­top and Philadelphia for the last two Eastern Conference playoff spots. 
"I'm not worried about the Lakers as much as I'm worried about the Knicks making the playoffs," said center Patrick Ewing, the team's leading scorer and the NBA's No. 3 shotblocker. ''The Lakers are a big game for us, but for us every game is a big game," 
"Obviously, we're going against the best in the league," Pitino said. "But we have to treat them as we would treat 


AP Photo 
New York's Gerald Wilkins moves past Joe Madison Square Garden. Their story is below at 
Dumars of Detroit in a game earlier this year. The left. high-flying Knicks have won 13 straight in 
any other game the rest of the season. To make the playoffs, 
you've got to beat everyone. And that's the case Wednes­day." 
While Ewing and guard Gerald Wilkins have stood out during the Knicks' successful home streak, the sparkplug has been rookie point guard Mark Jackson. 
In their last three victories -over Indiana, Philadelphia and the Bulls -Jackson has been the key down the stretch. 


WEDNESDAY 
DOLLAR lMPORTS FUZZY NAVELS 15¢. 
THURSDAY c2
tQ 

..c.... SOUVENIR CUP NIGHT fv'&..-J GREEN BEER 75~ f«'<j_ ~-4,_~S~~~~~ SCHNAPPS C0 ()r;~ IRISH WHISKEY 75~ 
WJiu d.oduJ ~UAW1 ~ /m.&.
HEY, .f.i~ a gorxi 'CJht /1,1 
0 YES, please send a 1988 Harvard Swnmer School CATALOGUE 
I
and/or specific informatioo about the following programs: 
I
0 Secondary School Program 0 Dance Center 0 Writing 
I
0 English as a Second Language 0 Health Professions 0 Drama 
I
1Name ________________________________________ 
I 
1 Address------------------------------------­
I 
1 City, State, Zip ----------------------------------I 
1 I
HARvARD UNIVERSITY SUMMER ScHOOL 
I
L___DEPT. 630 ·~ Ga~~~· Cambridge, MA 02138 
_j 


Wednesday, March 9, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Wednesday 

12:10 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
12:30 p.m.: First day issuance ceremonies for Rockne commemorative stamp in the area of the Joyce ACC, with President Ronald Reagan as speaker. 
3: 30 p.m. : Aerospace-Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Polymer Drag Reduc­tion," by Michael Reischman, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 4:30p.m.: Department of English Ward-Phillips Lecture, The Languages of Pain: Literature, Medicine, and the Body, "Tragedy: Pain Ancient and Modern," by David Morris, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 6:15p.m.: Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 7:30p.m.: Snite Museum of Art Lecture on the photographs of David Hockney, by Lawrence Weschler, staff writer for The New Yorker, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Devonshire Sandwich Corned Beef over Cabbage BBQ Pork Chops Irish Stew Broccoli Cheese Caserole Baked Chicken Beer Batter Sole Deli Bar 


Campus The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Lean-to 5 Auction offers 9 Word by 
Caesar 13 Fisherman's need 14 Lawmaking 
group: Fr. 15 Panache 16 Adored one 17 Perplexed 19 Badger 21 Negri of 
sllents 22 Day's end to poets 23 More 
competent 25 Mich. city 27 Make a choice 30 -up (study) 31 Erwin of old 
films 32 Mrs. Charles 
36 Bits of Information 40 Thorny problem 

03/09/88 


M A T H 
1 
0 
1 


A public serv1ce message from The Observer 

Comics 

Bloom County 

03101188 53 Make fun of 55 Goof 58 Froze 60 Created 61 -rain 82 Gauzy fabric 84 Pop 65 Extension 
Gary Larson 
43 Verdi work 44 Ogler 45 US canal 46 Printer's 
measures 48 Attendant 

50 Shoat 51 Most recent 54 Likeness 56 Lyric poem 57 Clapton 59 Standard 63 Tied 66 Ethnic group 67 A Lanchester 68 -green 69 Norse god 70 Sow 4 River mouth 
area 5 Actor Gazzara 6 Out on a limb 7 Pedestal part 8 Fence 
crossings 9 Neckline 
shape 10 "-Gantry" 11 Nominates 12 Vacuous 14 Cut of steak 18 Of milk 20 A tide 24 Follow 26 Eccentric 27 Informed 
71 Biographer about 
Leon 28 -deck 41 Gretel's 
72 Make over 29 Faithful brother 
33 See eye to 42 Transparent 
DOWN eye fabric 
1 Lapse 35 Vapor 47 Pat 
2 Animal skin 37 Wyatt -49 Pride 
3 Baseball's 38 1,102 51 Veins of ore 
Slaughter 39 Part of a keel 52 An Astalre 
Berke Breathed Far Side 



.. 
..... 







Sports
page 16 Wednesday, March 9, 1988 
OC takes IH title, wins in three OT's 
By BOB MITCHELL led by the outstanding goal­Sports Writer tending of Pete McCormick. "Pete let up some early goals 
The men's Interhall hockey but he sucked it up,'' said coach season was scheduled to con­Chris O'Grady. "He came up clude on March 8. But the de­with big saves in the late part termination of Off-Campus of the game and that was es­Crime would extend the seaon sential to our victory." to March 9. It took not one, not With O.C.'s defense entact, two, but three overtimes for its offense was able to open up 
O.C. to dethrone two-time and pick away at the Grace defending champion Grace defense. This freedom Hall by a score of 4-3. produced a goal by Mike Hart, 
The marathon was ended by closing the gap to 3-2. But the Keith Johnson on a slap-shot O.C. team was not finished in that found its way through a their comeback quest. With the mass of Grace defenders and clock showing under 30 seconds the outstretched glove of Grace in regulation play, Johnson goaltender, Gary Davis. guided the puck into the net 
O.C. fell behind 2-0 in the forcing the first overtime. early going of the contest on The first and second over­goals by Grace's Steve Bishop times were full of missed op­and Eric Galis. Yet, the Crime purtunities on the part of both did not allow the early deficit teams and the factor of fatigue to alter their game plan. They was effecting the play of both quickly responded with a goal die-hard teams. The third over­by Jim Fitzgerald, to cut the time came to an end with a shot deficit in half. However, O.C. from the point by Johnson that would find themselves in a deep deflected off a multitude of hole when Galis scored his players and gave the O.C. team second goal of the night, ex­a much desired championship. tending the lead to 3-1. At this "The victory was a team ef­
Dennis Corrigan features the exiting senior star 
point, O.C. 's defense tightened fort," said McCormick. "It 
below. 

up which enabled its offense to feels great to bring the cham­go to work. O.C. defense was pionship back to Off Campus." 


Rivers lives up to lofty expectations in reviving Irish 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Just under four years ago, Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps toured the halls touting the attributes of his freshman guard. Students were told that this skinny, 6-0 native of Jersey City, N.J., could do unbeliev­able things with a basketball. He would transform Notre Dame basketball and lead the Irish back into the NCAA Tournament after a three-year absence. 
Four years later, David Rivers has done all that. He's become Notre Dame's third all­time leading scorer with 2,014 points and Notre Dame's all­time leader in assists with 568. The Irish have made three straight trips to the NCAA's big ball, including a final 16 ap­pearance last season, and are on the brink of making their fourth trip. 

"It's been great," Rivers says of his career. "There've been ups and downs in my life, but overall it's been a great ex­perience." 
There've been a lot of high­lights on the court in the Rivers' years--a win over top­ranked North Carolina last season, a win over eigth­ranked Syracuse in the Carrier Dome his sophomore year, a game-winning jumper at Mar­quette his freshman year as well as all the milestones he's reached. Rivers says that he can't single out any one mo­ment from his career that has been particularly satisfying, but there was one this past weekend that was very special. 
As Rivers was warming up before facing Marquette, Irish assistant coach Matt Kilcullen motioned for Rivers to turn around. When he did, he saw something that he couldn't believe. His younger brother Jermaine, who is recovering from a brain tumor, had flown out for the game--the first time he had seen his older brother play at Notre Dame. 
After the game, Rivers stood arm-in-arm with his younger brother with a wide smile across his face. A big win over the Warriors took second place to that moment. 
"That was a great moment for me," Rivers says of the weekend. "He's battling an ill­ness, and seeing him looking as well as he looked was great. 
Having performed before him for the first time here at Notre Dame was another special thing. I'd have to say that this past weekend was a great high­lights of my time here at Notre Dame." 
Rivers comes from a family of 14 and this large connection to family has made Rivers par­ticularly conscious of children. After a game he's beseiged by kids, and he obligingly signs all autographs. 
"I have a lot of nieces and nephews," Rivers says, "and I love being around kids. You have to keep in mind what you're doing because you can influence kids easily. I try to be as positive as I can around the kids and to give them, in a sense, a model to shape their ideas by, not necessarily to try to become a David Rivers but at the same time to try to set goals and do the things that can make them a positive person." 
Rivers, a psychology major, says that once his career in basketball is finished, he plans to return to school to get his masters perhaps in child devel­opment, or psychology of per­sonality. But first, there's a lot of basketball in his future goals, especially the summer Olympics in Seoul. 
"It's once in a lifetime," Rivers says. "I have the oppor­tunity afforded me, and I plan to take full advantage of it. Hopefully, the NBA will be reasonable as far as under­standing that an opportunity like this doesn't come along for 
see RIVERS, page 11 

The never-ending quest for sports knowledge 
In the course of acquiring knowledge, it is said that one must ask questions and through the answers, one becomes more knowledgeable. 
I am starting to worry since I have quite a few questions that have yet to be answered and some other idle musing that may not have an answer. 
For instance: Why do I have the sneaking suspicion that Barry Spencer still has a year of athletic eligibility left? 
Why is it that the only time I got to see the football team wear green was when Notre Dame was too far ahead for it to matter? 
Whatever happened to Largest Agbejemisin? 
Will anyone notice that Minnesota's basketball program has been barred from post-season play for two seasons? 
Iii Sgt. Tim McCarthy really with the Indiana State Police or does he just deliver 'Don't drink and drive' messages to football fans in the fourth quar­ter! 
Has anyone ever seen Moose Krause without a cigar in his mouth? 
Why couldn't the media just let Tim Brown win or lose the Reisman Trophy instead of making everyone sick by telling us how good he was before the season, and then making everyone sick by nit­picking him to pieces after the season? 
Do you think Bobby Knight really drinks Coke, Digger Phelps really drinks Sprite and Gene Keady really drinks Diet Coke? 
When will George Steinbrenner ever fully realize that he has failed miserably in his attempt to become the Al Davis or Red Auerbach of baseball? 
When is the wave finally going to be gone for 
good? 

Rick Rietbrock 
Assistant Sports Editor 

If everybody wants to win a national champion­ship so bad, why isn't the campus packed with avid fencing fans? 
When will Bob Knight lighten up? Let me know so I know when to stop watching college basketball. 
Why, oh why, do they have to let money and greed invade the last remaining sanctuary of all that is good in baseball and play night games at Wrigley Field? 
If the men's volleyball club played the women's volleyball team, who would win? Why doesn't anyone. listen to me when I tell them 
Milwaukee is going to win the AL East three of the next six seasons? Why can't I look at Loyola, Marymount, in the top-20 and not be shocked just once? Why would curling get consideration as a possible Olympic sport any more than tiddley winks? Why is Digger Phelps considered a bad coach this year? Which organization sponsors Big East conference basketball games; NCAA, IBF or WBC? 
How long will it take Notre Dame to join the fellow independents Marquette and Dayton in the MCC? The later the better. 
Is it possible to find someone more productive that receives less attention than Mark Green? Will I still be alive when neither the Celtics nor the Lakers win the NBA Championship? 
If professional wrestling is fake, fixed, and foolish, why is it still better than most television shows? 
Is there any event that Donald Trump will not host sooner or later? Isn't Bookstore Basketball the best? There are so many excuses to blame a loss on. Why does David Rivers have his name in seven­inch lettering on his wristband? 
see QUESTS, page 13 












