
Irish Extra 

Notre Dame vs. Stanford 


chance of showers. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 29 Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Discovery lifts off as U.S. returns to space 

Spectators watch the ascent of the Dis­covery Thursday morning. The successful launch marks the return of the U.S. to 
U.S. and allies agree to build space station by 1998 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The United States and 11 allied countries signed an agreement Thursday to build a $23 billion perma­nently manned space station designed to serve as a stepping­stone for human exploration of the solar system. 
The facility, known as Space Station Freedom, will be de­signed, developed, operated and used by all of the partners, which include nine European 
ington Hall. 
allies, Japan and Canada, in ad­dition to the United States. 
The United States is provid­ing $16 billion to the program and the other partners are con­tributing more than $7 billion. The agreement was formalized at a State Department signing ceremony at which Secretary of State George Shultz presided. 
Richard Smith, a State De­partment scientist, told reporters the project is "clearly the world's largest ever international venture and certainly one of the most com­plex." · 
Twenty-two shuttle flights over a period of three years will be required to place in Earth's orbit all the hardware for the 
·station. Construction will be completed in the first quarter of 1998 although the facility will be permanently inhabited from late 1996 on, according to cur­
rent plans. 


4:45 -6 p.m.: Open Glee Club rehearsal in Crowley Hall. 
6:45 p.m.: Band step off from Washington Hall for Pep Rally. 7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. 
Saturday 
9:30a.m.: A closed meeting of the Alcoholics Anonymous fellowship at the Center for So­cial Concerns. 10 a.m.: Band rehearsal. Step off Washington Hall to Cartier Field. Noon -6 p.m.: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.-Space shuttle Discovery carried the Ameri­can flag back into space Thursday after a 32-month absence, its five astronauts riding a 700-foot tail of flame from rock­ets meticulously redesigned after the Challenger disaster. 
"Everyone certainly stood tall today," said Kennedy Space Center Director Forrest McCartney as Dis­covery settled into orbit, 184 miles above earth. Mission Control said the ship was "performing nominally." 
Six hours after liftoff the crew ac­complished the main mission of its flight, release of a satellite that will give NASA nearly constant communi­cation with future shuttle missions. 
It was the first launch since the Chal­lenger explosion with its toll of seven lives on a cold winter day shocked the nation and stopped the manned space program in its tracks. 
"We sure appreciate your all getting us up in orbit the way we should be," Discovery's commander, Navy Capt. Frederick Hauck, told Mission Control. "We're looking forward to the next four days -we have a lot to do and we're going to have alot of fun doing it." 
Liftoff was the first and most impor­tant milestone, but more was at stake than simply getting into space. The 2­year grounding of the shuttle fleet set back the nation's satellite delivery ca­pability, and release of a communica­tions satellite was the main order of business in orbit, several hours after launch. 
films and information in the North Dome of the JACC. 
3:30 p.m.: Band concert on the steps of the Administration Building. 4 p.m.: Glee Club performance in the JACC North Dome. 
4:45 p.m.: Performance by Shenanigans in the JACC North Dome. 5:40p.m.: Pre-game program in the Football Stadium. 6 p.m.: Football: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Stanford Cardinals. After the game: Alumni Jlospitality Center in the JACC North Dome:" 
The giant Tracking and Data Relay Satellite is a $100-million twin of the craft that was destroyed aboard Chal­lenger. 
In Washington, President Reagan praised the launch, saying the shuttle was "headed into orbit and America is back in space." He saluted the bravery of the crew and added, "We ask God to bless this important voyage." 
Launch, at 11:37 a.m. EDT, came only after NASA waived weather guidelines to allow for flight through some lighter-than-usual Florida winds. The 98-minute delay simply heightened the tension as NASA unveiled a spaces­hip that underwent more than 400 mod­ifications since the Challenger flight. 
Just how well the Discovery's booster rockets performed in their new design awaited detailed analysis. But J.R. Thompson, who directed the work from the Marshall Space Flight Center in Al­abama said, "From everything I see, everything looks great." 
Hauck's veteran flight crew con­sisted of Air Force Col. Richard Covey, Marine Lt. Col. David Hilmers; John Lounge; and George "pinky" Nelson. Landing was scheduled for Monday at Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
The astronauts had said all along they were treating the mission as a test mission -a "shakedown flight," in the words of Covey -and they quickly ran into first-flight problems. A water evaporator that provides cooling to the ship during the climb to space and return to Earth was partly clogged with 
See SHUTILE, page 8 


The space shuttle Discovery all ready to go at the Kennedy Space Center Wednesday after the seervice tower was rolled back. 
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
I Can't Believe It's Yogurt is sponsoring a contest for students interested in new business ventures. The fozen yogurt chain will award $1~,000 and personal ~onsultation to the studeftt with the best Ideas for a new busmess. Entry information is available at the South Bend store. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's world record in musical chairs may not stand past this weekend. The State University ?f N~w York at Albany is planning to break the record, said Tim Adams a WVFI-AM disc jockey. Adams said an Albany radio station WPYX-FM 106, called him last night to tell him about the attempt this weekend. The radio station said SUNY would have have more than 6,000 people in the musical chairs game. Notre Dame established the world record of 5,151 in 1985.-The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame Crime Stoppers is looking for freshmen who are interested in getting involved in the first Colle~e Campus Crime Stoppers in the country. Any students wis­hing to serve on the Board of Directors should contact Ann-Marie Walker at 283-3899. -The Observer 
Juggler is accepting poetry,.drama, ficti?n•. an~ visual art for its fall issue. The deadlme for submission Is today at 4:30 in 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Deadline for Urban Plunge registration is Oct.. 3. Notre Dame students can sign up at the Center for Social Concerns, Campus Ministry, and wit~ dorm r~ps. St. Mary's students can register at the Office of Justice Edu­cation, Campus Ministry, or with dorm reps. -The Obser­ver 
Logan Center Council for the Retarded welcomes volunteers to our Physical Fitness Recreation on Saturday from 9to 11:30 a.m. at Logan Center. St. Mary's volunteers will be picked up in front of Holy Cross Hall at 8:45a.m. Notre Dame students will meet in front of LaFortune Stu­dent Center at 8:45a.m. to walk over. -The Observer 
Tutoring in Accounting will be taking place ~n Sunday in 124 Hayes-Healy from 7:30. to 9 p.m. H~lp !s given on a first come first serve basts. The tutormg ts sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi. -The Observer 
Stomp Stanford; wear blue to the game on Saturday 
and support the Irish against Stanford. -The Observer 
"Issues '88" on WVFI will feature a live debate between the campus representatives of the two presidential cam­paigns, Tom Ehrhardt of the Bus~ campaign and Mark Bettencourt of the Dukakis campaign, on Sunday at 12:30 
p.m. on 640 AM. -The Observer 
Spanish Mass will be said on Sunday at 11 a.m. in Farley hall chapel. -The Observer 
Amnesty international will meet at 6:30 p.m.. on Sunday in the Center for Social Concerns. The meetmg will focus on human rights in Israel and letter writing for our South African prisoner. -The Observer 
Foodshare will have a mandatory meeting for all current members and those who would like to volunteer to take food to the homeless shelter on Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
WSND-FM 88.9 will air its weekly "Ideas and Issues" program on Sunday f~om 8 .to 8:30 p.m. Th~ ~how w?Il feature an interview with Umted Way Fundraismg Charr­man Father Beauchamp, a story on the recent "Black Boys" lecture, a review of the Sept. 22 sho~ing of a movie concerning the bishop's letter on women m the church, and a story on the St. Hedwig's Tutoring Program. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................. Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Patrick Zande Design Assistants ............ Janice O'Leary Etc. Designer........................ Tim Irvine ............................................. David Roth Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Val Poletto TypesetteTS .................... Molly Schwartz ND Day Editor .................... Sandy Roth ........................................... Paul Jackson SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demet News Editor................... Matt Gallagher Photographers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lisa D'Anzi Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber ......................................... Jennifer Recip Sports Copy EditOT ........ Steve Megargee 
Tile Oblener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obsener is published ~Y the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tile Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. . · h Tile Oblener is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproductiOn ng ts are reserved. 

Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 



ND/SMC relations need improved atmosphere 
It's time for another home game, the third of seven socially acceptable weekends for Notre 
Chris
Dame and Saint Mary's students. 

Murphy
How many times have we heard this? Prob­ably more times than 1 care to remember over Editor-in-Chief the past four years. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Students complaining about the social life, or ;. lack thereof, is nothing new. Seniors and fresh­men alike blame the social problem on Univer­sity policy. 
To the Notre Dame administration's credit, it has attempted to improve the social atmo­sphere on campus by increasing the percentage of women admitted to this year's freshman class. It has worked. 
But, as the number of Notre Dame women increase the discontent between some Notre Dame a~d Saint Mary's students seems to in­crease simultaneously. At times, this bitter re-~---;. 
lationship adds to an already limited social at­mosphere. 
The often-strained relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's results from a variety of factors that have been hashed over time and time again in this column space. What needs to be brought out are some of the in­equities in policy between the two schools. L-----------------:--­
One of the great arguments students hear Notre Dame students have the right to use An­when they are applying to either school is that gela Athletic facility. the college life is improved by the other school. So when it comes down to the dollars and One will say "but Saint Mary's is just across cents of it, which is a good way to judge here, the way," while another says "and the guys our community is divided. And these differ­are just across the street." Granted the ences in the way Saint Mary's students are strengths and weaknesses of each school can treated on Notre Dame's campus add to the work to the other's advantage in any environ-separation of what should be "the Notre Dame ment. and Saint Mary's community." 
That's what you hear before you arrive. The fact of the matter is, as this writer sees Then, when you get here, things change. Saint it, that neither Notre Dame or Saint Mary's
Mary's freshman are forced to pay an extra students should want to survive without the $25 in order to get season tickets for Notre Dame other in a social environment. Our social alter­football. As if that's not bad enough in itself, natives are so limited that no one should restrict Notre Dame students blame Saint Mary's stu­the atmosphere by some sort of prejudice be­
dents, though the ticket office was at fault. The cause "they don't go to my school." The more, ticket office's mistake is surpassed only by the merrier. those who blame Saint Mary's students for the This problem can be solved. Not everyoneticket crisis. emphasizes the differences between the 
schools. But when the rules discriminate 
A community, as Notre Dame and Saint against Saint Mary's students, it's eventually Mary's are so often described, also should not reflected in the feelings of one school's students discriminate among its facilities. Can anyone versus another's. So the students share the reasonably explain why Saint Mary's students blame. pay an extra $1 for use of the Eck Tem;tis Pavil-As the social options become more limited, lion? The same goes for Rolfs Aquatic Center we should worry less about who goes to what that when it's open, does not allow Saint Mary's school and more about how we can improve a stud~nts access to its facilities. Meanwhile, lacking situation where all need to get involved. 
~~~-­

T·SHIRTS SWEATS 
AND MUCH MORE!! YOUR DESIGN SCREEN PRINTED TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 NOTRE DAM INDIANA 255-4239 

m®Umcg [[)lNU][E Cl ~qr~IJffi[ill) llilNUJ[E • 
0 ~ 
Saturday, October 1st ' 12noon-4pm SOUTH QUAD 
featuring LIVE BANDS, Notre Dame Cheerleaders, and 


104wzzp 
SEE YOU -rHERE!! 
GO IRISH -BEfiT STAnFORD! 
.:~:.~;. ·.~.... (Sponsored by 
. "' .. 
·;.:?.·.:-. .ND Student Activities Office) 
• ·.. 
fr 
'_·::\ 
The Observer I Use D'Anzi 

Roy Roberts, top minority executive at Navistar In-Diversity. 
ternational talks to students for the Year of Cultural 
Navistar's Roberts stresses importance of education for achievement in business 
number of minorities who are consumers and workers is in­
creasingly dramaticallly,  he  
observed.  
Roberts  also  stressed  the  
need  for  role  models  for  

minority success. He advoca­ted an increase in the hiring of minority professors at Notre Dame and other universities throughout the nation as a means to accomplish such a goal.
Roberts speech was just one 
See ROBERTS, page 7 


page 3 Superconductivity center begins work 
By MISSY WEBER way. Computers will be able to Staff Reporter work faster, and electromag­
nets will be stronger, which 
A Center for Innovative Su­brings in medical applications, perconductivity Technology in said McGinn. Indiana has begun research at CAT scans use superconduc­Notre Dame and Purdue Uni­tors and will be more efficient versity on the processing of by research now beinghigh temperature supercon­developed. ductors, said Scott Bearby, "Materials of the supercon­who works at the Indiana Cor­ductors are ceramic, which poration for Science and Tech­means that they are brittle. nology (CST), which provides The challenge is processingfunding for the project. these materials to optimize 
"CST is involved with the their properties, "McGinn said. funding of the Superconducting Research at the center has Center because Indiana has a been under way since it openedneed for this type of center. in January 1988. Presently re­Notre Dame and Purdue both search includes processing
had individual research on su­thick film for microelectronic perconductors under way, and applications and the process­the center combines ing of bulk solids. them,"said Bearby, a 1988 People from the department graduate of Notre Dame tem­of material science and engin­porarily working at the CST. eering and from the physics de­
Both universities are inves­partment are involved with the tigating complimentary topics center. In the past, the Notre so that advances can be made Dame physics department has without duplicating research. played an important role in re­
Superconductors are com­search concerning conven­pounds that lose all resistance tional, low temperature super­below a certain temperature. conductivity. "The goal is to make the com­"We hope to play an impor­pounds lose resistance at room tant role in high temperature 
temperature," stated Paul research as well," commented McGinn, assistant professor of McGinn. "The center's pri­materials science and engine­mary goal is to provide a win­ering at Notre Dame. "This dow for Indiana's industry to will make the applications of get involved with superconduc­superconductors more practi­tors. Research is aimed at ex­cal." panding applications of super­
A few examples of the conductors for the industries in benefits of this technology in­the state to market and sell." clude the transmission of Another goal of the center is electricity through lines with­out any loss of power on the See SUPER, page 5 BY ASHOK RODRIGUES 
News Staff 
As part of the University's Year of Cultural Diversity, Navistar International Corp. Vice President Roy Roberts spoke Thursday on the subject of minorities in the business world. 
Roberts stressed the impor­tance of education in achieving success. "Minorities can succeed in business. . . Most important of all, education is a key to seizing on the opportu­nities, and succeeding in life." 
American society currently fails to place emphasis on the importance of education, Roberts explained. "As a na­tion we must learn to reward excellence... We have a re­sponsibility to educate people." 
One of the most prominent black businessmen today, Roberts noted that this nation businesses "can not ignore the blending of minorities" into American business. This is vi­tally important because the 
Also: Organ Rectal at Sacred Heart-3:15 
page4 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 

Nobel Peace Prize goes to 


U.N. peacekeeping troops 
Associated Press said Canadian trooper Tony Nations says 733 peacekeepers 
Mayfield, 22, who guards a have lost their lives since 1948. 
OSLO, Norway-Soldiers on crossing point between Greek Lt. Col. William Higgins, who the front lines of the United Na­and Turkish sectors of Nicosia, headed the 76-member U.N. su­tions' 40-year quest for peace the capital of Cyprus. pervision group in south won the 1988 Nobel Peace Prize Nearly 10,000 peacekeepers Lebanon, is among nine Amer­on Thursday for steadfast duty from more than 30 countries ican hostages in Lebanon. Hig­in the cross fire of the world's serve under the U.N. flag. gins, 43, was seized Feb. 17. conflicts. Peacekeepers most recently The prize was an indirect 
The Nobel Committee said were dispatched to Iran and tribute to Secretary-General the U.N. peacekeeping troops Iraq under a cease-fire Javier Perez de Cuellar, who built greater faith in the United negotiated in the countries' 8-was not eligible because he was Nations, which "has come to year-long war. nominated after the Feb. 1 play a more central part in "There is great joy," said deadline. world affairs." Timor Goskel, spokesman for Perez de Cuellar, speaking to 
The award could bolster new the U.N. Interim Force in applause at the U.N. General U.N. peacemaking efforts to Lebanon. He spoke from UNI­Assembly in New York, said oversee shaky truce agree­FIL headquarters in Naqoura, the Nobel committee showed ments in the Persian Gulf and Lebanon. "that the quest for peace is a Afghanistan. The citation from the Nobel universal undertaking involv­
In Jerusalem, peacekeepers Committee, made up of five ing all the nations and peoples 
broke open bottles of cham­Norwegians, said the troops of the world." pagne to celebrate the pres­showed the world's determina­The U.N. chief said he would tigious award as the word was tion to settle disputes peaceful­accept the prize in Oslo on Dec.· passed by radio from outpost ly. It said they "made a 10, the anniversary of benefac­to outpost. Five of the seven decisive contribution towards tor Alfred Nobel's death in 1896. peacekeeping forces are in the the initiation of actual peace It carries a cash award of 2.5 
Middle East. negotiations." million Swedish kronor, worth 
"We are here to keep the Some peacekeepers carry $390,000 dollars today. peace, but winning the Nobel light arms, but they can fire U.N. officials did not say how prize makes you feel good," only in self-defense. The United the money would be used. 

=Informational Meeting Switzerland ! ~Oct. 5 -7pm Come visit with last years ~ <JIJ\<}J<j)

i Little Theater,  students and teachers over  ~  ~<J)E  CWOO£,  
i Murrow Hall, SMC ! Courses offered in  retreshme~ pizza. For more info, contact  ~! !  IMI~~1fiE:IRC~IR[I),W'? trnr T"l:,t-<.r:.:  VD5J~ R00m  ~INI[I)002 ,  IPIH:IRSlOINJ~[L,  &!Hl!H:&[J.g5iw7IE'/\ I T'1D V;  ~GCIH:IP1f!H:Irb . Monday  
i ART, suEc, EDUCATION, :HISTORY ITALIAN,! and Ju~mcE  Prof. or  Black 4460 272-3726  -!i  Basement of La Fortune Student Center H th h S d 8 · ere roug atur ay. rmg your parents.  -through Fridayi  

~·~··~"~"~"~"~"~"~"~"~"~··~"~"~··~"~"~"~"~"~··~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
----~----~-~ 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 The Observer pageS 
Super 
continued from page 3 
to put together an industrial consortium. On October 13, a meeting at Notre Dame with Argonne National Laboratory and industrial representatives from the northern third of the state will introduce people 
Anything In store with coupon. Located in the basement of LaFortune. 
Hours: Mon. -Fri. 12-6:30 P.M. 
AOWORKS
L 



--------------:.1 
from Indiana to the center and try to link this center to a na­tional center. 
The initial funding for the center is $587,459 by the CST. The center hopes to split fun­ding for years two through five by receiving half of the money from the CST and half from in­dustrial and Federal agencies. 
I 
I 
Work begins on LeMans chapel 
By KERRY SCANLON 
News Staff 
The LeMans chapel at Saint Mary's has been closed since September 19, due to necessary repairs and renovations. 
The problem stems from the gutters on the building which are presenting a leaking prob­lem to the interior according to Ralph Szalewski and Mark Milkos, employees of Saint Mary's College who are respon­sible for the renovation. 
Plaster inside the chapel is loose and splitting and water marks from the leak are visible on the walls. 
A new roof was put on the chapel two or three years ago, and is still in good condition, said Szalewski. 
To correct this leaking prob­lem, the gutters and downspouts will be repaired. The entire chapel is also sched­
. uled  to  be  replastered  and  
repainted  in  its familiar  an­ 
tique white.  

In order to place the scaffold­ing in the chapel, most of the pews will be moved-hopefully 

Dance the night away as Campus D.J.'s play your favorite tunes. 
9-2 


Come watch the replay of the Notre Dame vs. Stanford game. beginning at 5:30 P.M. Don't forget to check out the HIDEAWAY 
0.8.-Soviet Relations: 

Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 10 p.m. 
WHERE: JACC 
TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff $6-adults 
Tickets should be purchased in advance. Now On Sale M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC Also will be sold in the dining halls 
within two weeks, said Szalewski. Items that may delay Szalewski and Milkos are other repair jobs on campus and the amount of cleaning af­terwards. 
"Repairing LeMans chapel is an ongoing upkeep process. Plaster was falling and suffici­ent actions were taken to promote health and safety." said Elizabeth Smoyer, a mem­ber of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's. 
However, Smoyer said that 

attendance for the LeMans 
masses and the quality of par­
ticipation have improved 
dramatically since these 
masses have been moved to 
Regina Chapel. 
Freshman LeMans resident 

Susan Shulick said, "I really 
missed going to mass at 
LeMans last week, it was so 
convenient for me and I loved 
the feeling that I captured at 
the (LeMans) chapel." 
While the renovations are un­

derway, theLeMans !2:20p.m. 
daily liturgy and the Sunday 
4:30p.m. mass will be held at 
Regina Chapel. 
The Saint Mary's Chapel Rennovation Committee is ex­ploring how all the mass spaces can be brought up to date with Vatican II, in order to promote a more communal, corporate mass and prayer environment. 
Brazilian hijacking ends 
Associated Press 

RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -Police shot and wounded an armed hijacker as he tried to board a gettaway plane with a hostage in central Brazil Thursday, ending a daylong ordeal that left one person dead and four in­jured, officials said. 
The rest of the passengers and crew of VASP flight 375 were released unharmed. 
The co-pilot of the jet was killed and three other crew members injured, said aut­horities. They described the hijacker as mentally dis­turbed. 
Holding a .38-caliber revolver and taking the jet's pilot with him, the hijacker descended from the Boeing 737 parked on the runway of the Santa Genoveva airport in Goiania, 850 miles northwest of Rio de Janeiro. 
A small Brazilian-made Bandeirantes plane was to take him and the pilot to Brasilia, the capital, said air force spokesman Col. Eden Avolinsque. 



~
-"THEBESY 

ND Communication and Theatre Film Series at the Snlte

WAR MOVIE 

:.E-V-ER M •oE·,,FUUMETALJACKET
-K Tonlghl7:30, 9:45 ·• ~Gnllil. tOftUNtott~nut ................, Stonkty Kubrick's vtsk>n of Vkttnam as seen through the eyes ot Prlllate Joker(Matthew .,..TAUT, TENSE, TERRfFIC. Modlne) could contain the best Morine basic 
-A-CONTENDER FOR · training scenes ever tMmed. starring a relentless '!fHE-YEAR'S BEST FlLM!:'. drill sergeant( played by actual ex-sergeant---· _.....,a..•. u,.. •ou•v · Lee Ermey). •This II my rille. this Is my gun. This Is 
tor tlghthg, this Is tort111.• 
OHAYO Monday 7:00 Satirical comect; by Yosujlro Ozu. one ot the most accomplished dlrecto11 ot children. 
SPIES 
Moncloy9:00 Visually compeNing, Incredibly fast paced 1928 thriller directed by Fritz long. 
D.O.A. Tuesday 7:00 Perhaps better than thill year's remake. the Stanley Kubrick's original D.O.A. t.ls the grllly, dorl< tole of a poisoned man hoping to tlnd hll killer before he
:_FJILl METAL JACKET 

dies. 
-....__,.,...lla1111Atfl 

Mil-aaa 1m!DOlt 8lil!l ::t:l,:ll".C t~M ,,~r.:la:t IHCI ---:SIIn.U ....Mlllla ~:.-:.:::.·~lr.!:.ll.lX. ·"'-"-'•!: ::....~..... WEEKEND ~ ~. '"='""''""' ·-.. ·-· ...·-· Tuesday 9:00 
Jeon-luc Godard's outrageous look at consumer society miKes erotlcltm, slapstick, 
ONITE AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:45 ~~UT~ R~o~"Q~NE 239-7361 
Checkout 

Mutual of Omaha's Class of '89. 
Insurance Is becoming a. first-choice career for many new graduates these days. Stabfllty and steadily Increasing financial rewards are two good reasons. 
Mutual of Omaha Is another. Our proven sales system, complete package of modern Total Income Protection products and first-class training are also strong Incentives . .5o are the long-term client relaUonshlps our successful agents ef1loy. 
Mutual ofOmaha's class of '87 Is entJUed to high expedaUons. Perhaps higher than any new sales ~presentatlves In our history. 
Send your rt!sumll! to : 
General Sales Manager 
P.0. Box 2858 

South Bend, IN 46680 
MutuaiC\ 
~Omilhil.\i.l 

c..-,.,,...901 
r.qu.l ~CoonpMia "''' 

--~---------­
pageS The Observer Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 



Quayle, Bentsen prepare for Wednesday VP debate 
Associated Press Jamieson of the University of Both Jamieson and Swerdlow Texas, an expert on politics and said Quayle's performance is 
WASHINGTON -As Dan the media. particularly important be­Quayle and Lloyd Bentsen turn Quayle spent Thursday in cause his choice has been their attention to debate brief­briefings here and looked linked so closely to Bush's ing books, experts predict their ahead to a weekend of tutelage judgement. showdown next week could be from RQger Ailes, the Bush "He could cost Bush a close the most important ever be­campaign's media guru. election," Jamieson said. tween two men vying for the Bentsen snatched time to study vice presidency. during a light campaign Much has been said and writ­
The pressure is on both can­schedule before returning here ten about the low expectations didates next Wednesday night late Friday for two days with for Quayle, and how that might in Omaha, largely because of top Democratic advisers. be an advantage for him in the the controversy surrounding The nation bas seen onlv two debate. Quayle's National Guard stint vice presidential debates : Re­"If he can appear the equal at the height of the Vietnam publican Bob Dole vs. Demo­of Lloyd Bentsen, he'll score an War and his admission to law crat Walter Mondale in 1976 overwhelming victory," said school. and Republican George Bush Jamieson. 
"This debate could be vs. Democrat Geraldine Fer­decisive in the election. And raro in 1984. But low expectations can also never before could you say that hurt. about a vice presidential Although Mondale and Bush "People will be disposed to debate," said Joel Swerdlow, were considered victors in hear errors as errors," unlike who edited a volume on those contests, "Dole passed minor flubs forgiven in last presidential debates and has the threshold of acceptability Sunday's debate between Bush written extensively on the sub­and for most people so did Fer­and Michael Dukakis, ject. raro," said Jamieson. Quayle, Jamieson said. Debates tend to 
"This is the first time in however, is a question mark to reinforce views of a candidate modern history that a vice a large number of voters, she that people already have, and presidential candidate may fail said. in Quayle's case "a stumbling to pass the threshold of accep­"The stakes are very high for performance will not be for­tability," said Kathleen Quayle," she said. given," she said. 

AP Photo Dan Quayle gives the Houston Cougar sign on the University of Houston campus Tuesday afternoon. He addressed student supporters during his stop. 
FINALLYI 
A Book That Makes the 
OPEN FOR DINNER 
PRIVATE PARTIES CARRY-OUTS AVAILABLE UP TO 100 PEOPLE FINE EATING AND DRINKING YOUR HOST-ROBERTO PARISI ESTABLISHMENT 
"The Italian Restaurant" 
Spaghetti Mostaccioli · Linguini Gnocchi Pizza Ravioli Tortellini Arancini Manicotti Bracioletti Filone lmbottito Lasagna A La Parisi's Fettucini Alfredo Bucatini Con Broccoli Alia Calabresa All Agllo E Olio Chicken Cacciatora Breaded Veal Cutlet A La Parmigiana 
Open Tues-Sat

232-4244 
Dinner 4:00pm-11 :OOpm

Ave. South of JACC 
Position available. Immediate opening.Inquire within. 
It's not an easy life. In places from Chicago to Bangla­desh, you'll serve the poor and rich, the aged and young, the educated and uneducated. The life demands prayer, hard work and vision. The rewards are areat...even in this life. You will have opportunities to develop your potential. You will con­tinue the work of Christ, share His mission and respond to world needs. There is no joy in this world to compare with that. 
By the witness of our lives, Brothers serve in: Missions, Education, Social, Pastoral, Health Care, Youth and Retreat Work, Farming, Maintenance and other trades and profes­sions that help to strengthen Christian Community. 
For more information, 
Contact: 
Brother Don Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
219/233-2191 

HOLYCROSS 






BROTHERS$ 
History of Our Times Intelligible! 
BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR: 
CHURCH, S~ATE and FREEMASONRY IN AMERICA 
by Paul A. Fisher 
Former Bureau Chief for The Wanderer and Veteran journalist of the Catholic Press 
Behind The Lodge Door lifts the veil on the subterranean war waged against Church and State by the Masonic Fraternity for over 200 years -even in­fluencing U.S. Supreme Court decisions. 
An amazing and well docu­mented expose of a mysterious international organization whose impact on history has been so studiously (and curious­ly) ignored by historians. 

Fisher, a graduate of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, served Price: $1895 per copy with OSS in Washington, North (Add $2.05 postage & handling) 

Africa and Italy during World War II, and with Army Counter-DISCOUNTS: Intelligence in the U.S. and 2-4 books, 15%; 5 books. 25% 
Korea. Prior to his journalistic career, which began in 1973, he was Legislative Assistant and Press Officer for the late Con­gressman James J. Delaney (D., N.Y.). 
"A brilliant expose of the hidden power that Freemasonry has in the past and still is exerting so successfully to de-Christianize America. This is MUSTreading . .."(Fr. Vincent Miceli, Ph.D., Christendom College). 
"Fisher knows how to do research and how to weigh facts. and those skills give his work a sense of balance and sobriety that make it as persuasive as it is alarming . .. ; [He] shows con­clusively that Uustice Hugo L.] Black's Everson opinion is un­historical. unconstitutional. and deliberately concocted out of Masonic dogma...•" (Michael Schwartz, The Wanderer). 
READER REACTION: 
"In the last 35 years I've read quite extensively about Masonry. Your Book is the best." ]VB, California 
"A wonderful book. I hope you sell a million." PEH, Florida 
''Your book needs to be gotten out to as many Catholics as possible and to other Christian Americans willing to listen." EL, Florida 
"I think that the Catholic Church should be grateful for your research.'' BLH, Indiana 
----------ORDER FORM --------­
SHIELD PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Box 90181 Washington. D.C. 20090 

Send copy(ies) of BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR (at $18.95, plus $2.05 for postage and handling to: 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State _____ Zip _____ 
Amount enclosed: $______ 


--~-------...... 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 The Observer page 7 
"more and more companies 
are becoming aware that we
Roberts Faculty appointments announced 
October 3 -7 12:15-1:00 P.M. 
I.S.O. Lounge (2nd Floor of LaFortune) 
contin'ued from page 3 are living in a very pluratlistic of many presentations included society, and so there is always in this Year of Cultural Diver­going to be the need for having 
sity. While this speech concen­
good, qualified people that are trated on business, other parts minorities." of the program will deal with Notre Dame minority enroll­history, art, black studies, and ment has been increasing over philosophy. The University the past few years. According hopes to have several leaders to Williams, this year's Junior in each field give presenta­class is eight percent minority. 
tions. The Freshman class is 13 per­Assistant Accounting Profes­cent minority. Williams ex­sor Juan Rivera, who invited pects this figure to reach 15 
Roberts to speak, notes that percent by 1992. 
..-----~~~~~----...lllllllllllllllll~~~!!lp!ll.........
I.,. FRillD au,. BUDDI.II 
HTanz,_ and 
Motor-Mouth" 

Special to The Observer 
New academic administra­tive appointments at Notre Dame have been announced by Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
In the president's office, Roland Smith, Jr. assumes the post of executive assistant to the president. Father Richard Warner is counselor to the pres­ident. 
In the provost's office, Donald Spicer is assistant r:;~ost for University com put-
In the College of Arts and Letters, Nathan Hatch as­sumes the position of acting dean. Other appointment in­clude: Karl Ameriks, acting chairman of the philosophy de­partment; Ethan Haimo, chairman of the music depart­ment; Thomas Kselman, act­ing chairman of the history de­partment. 
Naomi Meara, chairman of the psychology department; Andrew Weigert, acting chair­man of the sociology depart­ment, and Scott Maxwell, asso­ciate chairman of the psychology department. 

Laidback, lunchtime talks with various members of the faculty who relate their experiences abroad. These are not lectures but rather relaxed open dialogues. 


IFREE LUNCH INCLUDED I 
October 3: Professor Jim Bellis Nature of Cross Cultural Experience October 4: Professor Angel Delgado Spain October 5: Professor Jay Dolan The Irish: "A Special People" October 6: Professor David Winicur Judaism October 7: Professor Bill Miscamble Australia: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow 
w w w w w w .. 
•

" 
In the College of Engineeri­ng, Anthony Michel is the Mat­thew H. McCloskey dean. Other appointments include: Jerry Marley, associate dean; William Berry, acting chair­man of the department of elec­trical and computer engineeri­ng; James Kohn, acting chairman of the department of chemical engineering, and Thomas Mueller, chairman of 
the department of aerospace 
and mechanical engineering. 
Appointments in the College of Science include: Jeremiah Freeman, associate dean; Paul Helquist, chairman of the chemistry department; Gerald Jones, chairman of the physics department; Andrew Som­mese, chairman of the mathe­matics department; Alan Howard, associate chairman of mathematics; Marvin Miller, associate chairman of the chemistry department, and Barth Pollak, assistant chair­man of the department of mathematics. 
Law School appointments in­clude: Fernand Dutile, associ­ate dean for academic affairs; Roger Jacobs, associate dean for research and information services; Father William Lewers, director of the Center for Human Rights, and John Robinson, acting director of the Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government. 
Appointments in University research centers include: Hafiz Atassi, co-director of the Center for Applied Mathema­tics; Sister Mary Ewens, asso­ciate director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
Ronald Hellenthal, acting director of the University of Notre Dame Environmental Research Center, and Robert Irvine, director of the Center for Bioengineering and Pollu­tion Control. 
Other appointments include: Dorine Blake, acting project director of the Division of Spon­sored Programs in the Office of Advanced Studies; Patricia Livingston, associate director of the Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry; Sister Mary Aquin O'Neill, under­graduate coordinator of the Tantur Program, and Brian Pavlac, director of the Innsbruck Program. 
C 0 L L E G E S T U D E N T S  
WIN $10,000 WITH ONE BRIGHT IDEA.  
I I 1 0 I ' Win $10,000 in the I Can't Believe It's Yogurt Believes you can do it too College Entrepreneur Competition. Stop by today for an entry form.  

1635 Edison Rd. South Bend 2 blocks east of 
N.D. Stadium 
I Can't Belieue It's 
\UGURTI 
Frozen \bgurt Stores



-------® 
Great Taste, Naturally. 
C 1988. I Can't Believe It's Vo~urt. Lld. 



~----~ ~-~ 
page 8 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 
Kremlin hierarchy faces shakeup at weekend meetings in Moscow 
Associated Press "no crisis" in the leadership, the Supreme Soviet would but the abrupt change in plans begin Oct. 27, and the an­
MOSCOW -The legislature of several top Kremlin figures nouncement Thursday of a spe­and the Communist Party's clearly indicated urgent or un­cial sitting at such short potice policy-making body will shake expected business. was highly unusual. up the Kremlin hierarchy in ex­Tass reported Foreign Mini­The Central Committee had traordinary meetings this ster Eduard Shevardnadze week, a high-l~vel source said landed in Moscow Thursday af­been expected to meet by the Thursday. ternoon after cutting short a 
end of October, but one Soviet 
The policy-setting Central U.N. visit. Defense Minister source said plans for imple­
(1#>-~ "~!:;.# 
Committee meets Friday and Dmitri Yazov ended a visit to menting Gorbachev's political
4c ' 
the Supreme Soviet on Satur­India a day ahead of schedule. reforms were proceeding;.·~ day. The meetings brought of­The 1,500-member Supreme "faster than was expected."
' 
ficials rushing back to Moscow Soviet, the nation's parlia­The source, a member of the 
and sparked speculation that ment, usually convenes twice a 
. Central Committee staff, said 
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­year after meetings of the 300-the committee will approvehev and his opponents would member Central Committee. It 
changes in the party and the 
' 
face off over his ambitious eco­last met May 24-26. 
structure of government out­
nomic and social reforms. Soviet media reported Sun­lined at a party conference in 
Soviet sources said there was day that a regular session of June. 

SOCCER CITY 
ONE BLOCK EAST on SR 23 from Intersection of 23 and Ironwood ';o 
~~ 

IFOOSBALLI ~(.(. ,, 
nd Other Games Tournaments on Weekends WIN $$$ Great Fun 
MON-FRI 3-10PM, SAT 1-11PM, SUN EVENINGS 
fOVR l-f-APPYN£SS 
R~ 
4609 GRAPE ROAD• MISHAWAKA 1/2 MILE SOUTH OF UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
MON.-THURS. 11 A.M.-9 P.M. FRI.-SAT.-11 A.M. -10 P.M. SUNDAY 11:30 -8 P.M. 
277-0369 • 272-4072 
CARRY OUTS AVAILABLE 
AftEN,.ION S,.UDEN,.S!! A,.,.EN,.ION S,.UDEN,.S!! 
NO,.RE DAME'S DEVELOPMEN,. PHONE CEN,.ER NOW HIRING 
(Located in Badin Hall) 
75 Student Positions Available $4.50 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 7:15-1 0:30; Some daytime hours 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House I Information Session at the Development Phone Center October 5 from 7:00..Qm-8:00pmPLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory, 239-7938 


Shuttle 
continued from page 1 
ice. And a device that provides electrial power to move an orbital steering engine was not working. 
Neither problem was criti­cal. Flight director Gary Coen said engineers were devising ways of thawing the evaporator before it is needed again and that backup power was avail­able to turn the steering engine. 
To the delight of a quarter­million people gathered on river banks and highways and an ecstatic NASA team in Launch Control, Discovery lifted off its seaside pad and streaked into cloudy skies. It remained in view less than a half minute, but the tension was considerable and the sight was unforgettable. 
Discovery, an American flag on its left wing, was making its seventh spaceflight. 
Anxiety was highest as the ship went through a 30-second period of severe aerodynamic stress. It was during this stage of the flight that one of Chal­lenger's booster rockets failed and triggered the Jan. 28, 1986 catastrophe, 73 seconds after liftoff. 
Some television viewers re­ported what they thought was an errant flame shooting from the left booster rocket about 90 seconds after liftoff. Officials said an analysis revealed a harmless phenomena that causes flame from the exhaust to "climb" up the side of the rocket. 

Griffin 
continued from page 12 
homophobic, Bill says: "It 
began when I was badly 
frightened as a child using a 
public restroom. I still get 
nervous at what's happening 
around me when I'm using 
the restroom at a bus or train 
station in a large city." 
Bill and Mary find it sad that a particular aspect of human behavior has become the basis of a liberation movement that politicizes human sexuality; and they feel homosexuals demean themselves when they allow their daily existence to be summed up in the confining word "gay." The "gay" world which calls attention to itself --often tastelessly, even decadently-in America is sad and sick. A number of homosexuals admit they feel dismay at gay liberation when any refusal to go along with the movement is imme­diately denounced as cowar­dice, hypocrisy or selfishness. 
By the end of the play, Bill and Mary are still groping toward the truth about the human condition, looking for 

the middle way and finding that th~ path to truth leads through a minefield. 
I'm never even going to start this imposssible play, but I can imitgine myself doing it as a way of finding out how things could look if I 
weren't a Catholic who has made up his mind. 
Don't be so strong as a Catholic that you can't under­stand that error has rights and is useful and can have truth on its side. Don't think so little of your religion that yau make Christ ashamed of you. 
~ ~ 



Viewpoint
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 page 9 
P.O. Box Q 

Women have right to control their lives 
Dear Editor: 
I am extremely angry with the many Viewpoint letters from "Right-to­Lifers" in the past weeks. Despite their claim that they take into account all sides of the abortion issue, they still are not putting the emphasis where it belongs--on the mother. 
I want women to have complete con­trol of their lives at all times. When an unwanted pregnancy occurs and the mother is denied the right to an abor­tion, she faces many hardships. For nine months the mother must change her lifestyle drastically; for several of those months she might have to take leave from work, possibly resulting in her dismissal. The pain of childbirth must also be considered as an un­desirable experience. If the mother has other children and is in dire financial straits, then those other children will suffer as a result of time and money devoted to the newborn and hospital costs. Also, the loss of pay from the time taken off work to have the child may adversely affect the other children in the family along with the mother. 
It sickens me when the predominantly upper-and middle-class students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's join "Right-to-Life" because of the great evils they see in abortion. I wish these students would just empat­hize with the women carrying the un­wanted fetuses and understand how the pregnancy infringes upon their freedom to be in control of their own lives. I believe that a fetus may have rights, but those rights end when they start to infringe upon the freedom of the mother. I think that it is important to understand that the fetus might "be a life, but it is completely dependent upon the mother. I feel it is a mother's right to rid herself of this dependent fetus in order to be in control of her own future. 
The absence of adequate health and day care programs also make it more important that women be able to ter­minate their pregnancy. Instead of making a moral decision for her, I adv­ocate giving the woman the choice on how her life will develop. 
Karl Kronenberger Off-campus Sept. 26, 1988 

Van Halen lottery system flops 
Dear Editor: 
P.T. Barnum once said, "There's a sucker born every minute." Obviously Barnum was an optimist, and he never stood in line for tickets. 
In the past, we have attempted to pur­chase tickets for concerts, most recently for the upcoming Van Halen concert. In every instance a standard time was established to permit line formation. Each time, however, this "standard time" seems to have been broken. In order that we would not be duped again, we attempted to form a line before the "standard time." Our attempt was unsuccessful. To put it lightly, we were asked to leave. The words "Pack up your stuff, get out, and if you're still here in 10 minutes, I'll take your IDs and report you to Goldrick," seem to come to mind. That in itself didn't upset us too much. No, it did. 
So we came back later well within the limits set by the nice, cooperative, polite, caring officer at the ACC. What was to follow could only be compared to the time when students with tickets were turned away from President 
More than 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, The Observer, Notre Dame IN, 46556. 
~----------------------------• 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Athletes as a rule are 
stronger than their backers; 
yet the weaker presses the 
stronger to put forth all his 

efforts." 

St. Jerome (342-420) 

Doonesbury 
HOW {i]()W 7HIS HAPP£3N, 
Sff<2 HOWCOUWA 
MAJOR I'R&SivemlAL­
~ {.AN/)/~ [I; 1?13-IT'S 
• Pf.ACEP BY HIS 8e&N A ; &VIl-TWIN? tONG TIM& 
( COMING, MR.. /)/)/<& ... 

FORM~ MY PWPl& HAV£3 8teNPUSHII¥3 A1b 70 TAK& TH& toWROAV, 70PI.AY IXJaJN ANI? 1?/I<TY. 8UTITNl3VER. aoR/(f;[). IT /AIASN'TM&. I Kl3PT r<&VER.T­ING 7D TH& Q(}ffiT, fJtC&NT GUY I WAS/?At~£2~--::-;-;;;--.. 70/JC. 
Reagan's speech in the ACC. We were 
still the first people in line, yet due to 
the miracle of lottery, our pick placed 
us well past the sellout number. 
The lottery is supposed to promote a 
fair distribution of tickets among the 
student body. What is so fair about 
being first to arrive and not getting a 
chance to purchase tickets? The last 
time I checked, first-come, first-served 
seemed pretty fair. If you got there 
first, you got to buy your tickets. If you 
got there last, you didn't. That's fair. 
It all depended on how motivated you 
were to sleep outside in the cold, and 
how badly you wanted the tickets. All 
of you who slept out for football tickets 
surely understand. You wanted those 
50 yard line tickets. And if you got there 
first, you got them. 
Well the students who wanted those 
front row tickets badly enough to sleep 
out for them didn't get them. Someone 
who may have just wanted to go to the 
concert and didn't really care where 
they sat wound up with them. 
Unfortunately, some of the people 
who really wanted to go are going to 
have to pay an awful amount of money 
for tickets. 

Perhaps we are overlooking the use­
fulness of the lottery system. It seems 
to have worked on Monday for the Van 
Halen concert so why don't we use it 
more? In fact, why don't we use it for 
football tickets? But why stop there? 
Why not use it for checkmark caurses? 
Oh, what the heck. Why not use it for 
University admission? It seems ob­
vious that if something is going to be 
fair, it must be fair all around. Fair for 
sports. Fair for concerts. 
Michael Ury 
Chris Kmetz 
Mike Senkovich 
Sept. 27, 1988 



SMC students abuse parking privileges 
Dear Editor: 

St. Mary's parking policy ... every­
one's talking about it, everyone's 
waiting for something to be done about 
it, and most of all, everyone's tired of 
hearing about it. Once and for all, we're 
addressing it, the complaints, the con­
cerns, the questions, and the answers. 
Last week Mr. Richard Chlebek, 
Saint Mary's Director of Security, at­
tended our Board of Governance 
meeting, where an insightful and in­formative discussion took place. Yes, there are quite a few different regula­tions regarding parking this year. Among the most popular are the elim­ination of 30 minute parking in front of the halls, time schedules for the is­suance of tickets, and the increased fine for these tickets. 
Contrary to popular belief each of these changes has a legitimate and valid reason for their creation. Many times the 30-minute parking zone in front of the hall was personally ex­tended by a student to be a 2-hour-and­30-minute parking space. This happens to cause a little bit of a traffic jam es­pecially in front of Holy Cross Hall, one of the two exits off-campus. 
Due to the limited space of the LeMans parking lot, used for college employees during the day, cars areal­lowed to park in LeMans until 7 a.m. This is a change from last year when the time was 7:30 a.m. However, this change was expressly published in the Traffic Manual, given to all registered drivers. 
A rise in parking fines has also oc­curred this year as a result of excessive tickets issued and subsequently, delin­quent fines. Maybe now we all will think twice before· accepting a $10 ticket as compared to a $5 one. 
The bottom line with all of the hype about the parking policy is student abuse. It is not security's fault that some students choose to abuse the law and that tickets must be issued. However security is no longer taking the blame for all the parking violators. They simply have tightened the law. Unfortunately, the entire student body must be punished for the abuse of the few. As drivers we all have the respon­sibility to drive our cars in a safe and responsible manner. As students we all have the privilege to use the campus parking facilities according to the law. 
So before anyone renders yet another comment about the parking policy, se­curity, or a ticket, think again. Or bet­ter yet, think about the abuse causing the 5,700 tickets that were issued last year. 
Julie Parrish Student Body President Lisa M. Hill 
V .P. for Student Affairs Christy Wolfe 
V .P. for Academic Affairs Sept. 27, 1988 
Editorial Board Operations Board



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Edltor: ............................... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ................•. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tllte University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Contra/fer .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 


Ringers is eerie 
AMY ECKERT accent writer 

D
ead Ringers," the latest from filmmaker David Cronenberg, is a fascinating yet chilling glimpse into the relationship between identical twins. The twins, Beverly and Elliot Mantle, (both portrayed attachment to Niveau adds a new and stressful element to the brothers' lives. 
Beverly finds himself torn between fearing his closeness to Niveau and fearing the loss of his brother. He turns to drugs in an attempt to deal with the emotional strain of his inner conflict. His rela­

tionshio with Niveau becomes shaky and he turns to Elliot 
by Jeremy Irons) are gynecologists who operate a Toronto fertility clinic. 
Beverly is the shy introvert who devotes most of his time to his research and his books. Elliot, on the other hand, is the outgoing ladies' man. Despite this, the Drs. Mantle are not the one-dimensional 
for help, but only succeeds in dragging him down into his self-
destructive cycle. The brothers lose their practice, their identity, their sanity, and finally their lives. 
The film's pace is rather slow and it drags quite a bit in some places. In fact, it seems much longer than its 

opposing characters that have been typical in previous twin movies. 
The Mantles maintain a delicate and carefully balanced relationship until Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold), an actress with a drug habit and a strong desire to become a mother, enters their clinic and their lives. Niveau becomes in­volved first with Elliot posing as Beverly and then with Beverly himself. Beverly's 
Calvin and Hobbes 
actual length of two hours. 
The psychological aspects of the film, however, are both bizarre and gripping. The decline of the twins is at once repulsive and captivating and Irons is superb in his dual role as the calm, cool Elliot and the paranoid, tormented Beverly. 
Although "Dead Ringers" lacks physical action, it presents an eerie vision of the fragile world of two twin brot­hers who share one soul. 






CHIC1 

SCOTT KAHNEY accent writer 
T 
he blues and Chicago-­what a combination! There is no better way to ex­perience live blues than a brief roadtrip to visit one of Chicago's blues haunts. 
Blues Etcetera, located at 1124 W. Belmont Ave., and Cotton Chicago, located at 3204 N. Wilton Ave., are two of Chicago's newer blues clubs that have continued the tradition of making Chicago the home of the blues. 
Blues· Etcetera is a long, narrow club which proudly displays a lighted sign claim­ing that they serve Old Style-­in both bottles and cans! The fact that they're proud of their humble beer says a lot for the spirit of the blues. 
Like most of Chicago's blues bars, Blues Etcetera is far from beautiful inside, al­though this bar is probably somewhat nicer than most. The atmosphere of this club, which is almost one year old, does not come from flashy lights and slick style, but from the band and the people. 
Inside Blues Etcetera you'll find a whole host of people, running the gamut of metropolitian life. Linking the diverse crowd is the blues. People come together to sit and watch the band, to dance, to drink or just to talk. But most of all, people come to this bar to feel the blues. Like a vital fluid, live blues can give a bigger high than a nice 
cold can of Old Style. 
Magic Slim and the Teardrops, a Chicago band which often plays at Blues Etcetera, was on stage last Friday. The first words the Teardrops uttered when they took the stage were, "Are you ready for the blues?" True to form, the spirited crowd rose to the occasion and enjoyed every minute of the show. 
Magic Slim and his band performed from about 9 p.m. to 1:30 a.m., doing three lively sets. Even the slow, traditional blues tunes had the crowd shaking their stuff on the compact dance floor. 
Those who didn't dance, however, weren't left behind. Slim's blues reached to the far corner of the bar and had 
Bill Watterson 
Alth 
ther Y4 fourth throug enter t ten mt feel th' music. 
And cetera Style. 
everyone swaying to the simple rhythms at least once. 
Just a couple of blocks ·from Blues Etcetera is Chicago's newest blues club--Cotton Chicago. This bar, which opened in July, is owned and run by James Cotton, one of the blues's premier har­monica players. 
This club has both a well-lit bar area, complete with a pool table and weekly nine ball tournaments, and a large, dark, smoky room where the bands play. Al­though bigger than Blues Et­cetera, Cotton Chicago has no dance floor. The spirit of the crowd did not suffer from this however. 
The night I spent at Cotton Chicago was lively and enter­taining with James Cotton on stage. Cotton and his band usually try to play at least once a month at the club. Even Rod Stewart, who was in Chicago for his Alpine Val­ley concert, stopped by to en­joy the Cotton Blues Band. 

Although James Cotton him­self didn't play that much during the evening, his band and several guests kept the long, two-act show hot and spicy. Cotton's band opened each act with a 45-minute song where each member took a turn blasting out a searing solo. 
Both of these clubs have a cover charge. Blues Etcetera charges $3 during the week and $6 on Friday and Satur­day. Cotton Chicago also charges $3 during the week, but weekends cost $7. 



at 
Time 6:07 p.m. COT 
TV & Radio 

ESPN-TV (Mike Patrick, Kevin Kiley, Chris Foster) Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) WVFI-AM 640 
Game is sold out
Tickets 

(capacity 59,075) 
Notre Dame 5th AP Rankings Stanford unranked 
Notre Dame leads, 3-1 Series First game in 1924 
October 24, 1964
Last Game 
Notre Dame 28, Stanford 6 
Irish senior amuses children, abuses offenses George Streeter writes well, hits hard 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Who are Oatmeal Man and the Nabisco Kid and what do they have to do with the Notre Dame secondary? 
The connection is Irish senior strong safety George Streeter. 
The creative side of Streeter does not come across on the football field, but off it, Streeter is very softspoken and creative for a 6-2, 200-pound football player. 
"One of the problems with being an athlete is that, to be a good athlete, you can't be diversified," Streeter says. "You can't be well-rounded. You have to specialize all the time. Those of us who do have other talents get stereotyped as only being able to play foot­ball." 
OK, but who is the Nabisco Kid? 
"One story I wrote, a children's story, was about Oatmeal Man and the Nabisco Kid. The whole story was cookies--everybody in it was a cookie," Streeter explains. "People liked that story." 
But writing for kids, as well as drawing and designing, is not what you would expect of Streeter. 
"A lot of people I know wouldn't know that I can write, wouldn't know that I can draw, wouldn't know that I like to do those things,'' he says. ''A thing I really like to do is coloring in giant coloring books, but nobody would guess that.'' 
Most of Streeter's work gets thrown into the wastebasket, but last year he had a mural of a California beach done in chalk on the wall of his room. 
"They painted over it this year," he says, "but poeple al­ways said something. They al­ways liked it. My talent as an artist is limited. I'm no Rembrandt, that's for sure." 
Although his creative abili­ties have taken a back seat at Notre Dame because of the lack of free time, Streeter is a Marketing major, which he says is a way for him to use his creativity in the business world. 
On the football field, though, Streeter is all business. 
In the three games this season, Streeter has been in on 15 tackles, and has intercepted two passes, both in the first half of Notre Dame's 52-7 drubbing of Purdue last week. The two interceptions tie him for the team lead with linebacker Mike Stonebreaker. 
"My biggest game, even my biggest half, was against Purdue," he explains. "The two interceptions tied both my season and career highs, at the same time. That game was good because we knew what we had to do, we had the opportu­nity to do it, and we got it done." 
Streeter has played in every Irish football game since he came to Notre Dame in 1985. Like all Notre Dame students, Streeter has his own formula for getting things done. 
"From being a freshman to a senior, the only thing you change is emphasis. You have to know what day you have to go out there and be real physi­cal on the practice field, so you know to go right to bed that night...you know when you have to stay up late to study...you learn the cycle of the tests you'll have. By that time. you have the discipline to stay in when you need to." 
see STREETER, page 3 


Stanford band brings tradition, antics to ND Stadium 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Their halftime rendition for Saturday night's game in­cludes the theme from "Hawaii 
, " and songs by Thomas uvwJ, Steely Dan and Cole Porter--not exactly the typical fare for a collegiate marching band. 
But then, nobody ever ac­cused the Leland Stanford Junior University Marching Band of being normal. 
Actually, that name might be a misnomer for the Stanford University band. These guys don't do much marching at all. 
"Basically, we don't do the typical disappearing diamonds, ranks of lines that move into formations like other bands do," said Eric Black, public relations director for the Stanford band. 
The LSJUMB prefers doing something it calls the "scat­ter,'' in which the band changes formations by having everyone run around to the farthest pos­sible spot, producing a giant blob on the field before the new formation finally is presented. 
The band expects to have 94 members make the trip to Notre Dame this weekend. They will be accompanied by "the Tree," which serves as the band's mascot (when your team is named after a color, you have to come up with some­thing) and five members of a dance group called the Dollies. 
"That's about two-thirds of the band," said Black. "The football team brings about two­thirds of the players (on road trips), so we stuck with that." 
Halftime show themes for the LSJUMB normally center on misconceptions about current events (past topics have in­cluded Patty Hearst and the death of Mao Tse-Tung). Other frequent halftime fodder is the "What if?" motif, including the idea of having this weekend's show ponder the results if the Summer Olympics had been held in Indiana. 
"That didn't quite pan out," said Black. "Our idea is that something went wrong with our telefax machine, and we got all the wrong ideas about Notre Dame." 
In accordance with that theme, tha LSJUMB's forma­tions will include a giant eye to stand for the "Fighting Iris," a humpback whale for "the humpback of Notre Dame" and a "newt," or baby salamander, in honor of Knute Rockne. The band also hopes to form a fish in hopes of "winning one for the kipper." 

"The announcer plays an im­portant role in our halftime shows; he explains what's going on," said Black. "We have a sort of cartoon-type humor." 
That humor got a little out of hand a couple years ago. The Stanford athletic director, who obviously had a much different sense of humor, placed the band on probation. 
The controversy surrounding the LSJUMB at the time earned it a feature piece in a 1987 issue of Rolling Stone, which re­ported stories of a band that made formations of phallic symbols, whose members dropped their trousers on the field and, on at least one occa­sion, had certain members urinating on the field. 
Black insists the band's prob­lem during that time resulted from a lack of talent. 
"The main problem was the band simply wasn't funny, and a few tasteless formations were done on the field," said Black. "The band's improved drastically since that time. We've been very successful in improving musically and also getting the audience more in­volved. 
"We're trying to get back to playing for the audience as much as for ourselves," Black continued. "We're not trying to dissociate ourselves from the past, but trying to learn from the mistakes we've made. All organizations go through slumps and improvements, and right now we're in the im­provement stage." 
Stanford's band has had a checkered history with the Uni­versity, beginning 25 years ago 
see BAND, page 3 

·------------------­
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
"You can not evaluate a foot­ball game on the basis of one week. I think that's always a problem; if everything goes your way, then everyone thinks it's going to be that way each and every week. It's not." 
So said Notre Dame head co­ach Lou Holtz after the Irish drubbed the Purdue Boiler­makers 52-7. Holtz may even expect a letdown this week, as the Irish have a hard time win­ning game No.4. 
"We have not played very well in the fourth week of the season," Holtz said, "and that's something that always concerns you. We're going to have to see what happens." 
What's going to happen is Saturday's matchup against Head Coach Jack Elway's Stan­ford Cardinal (1-2), a team the Irish haven't played since 1964. 
Notre Dame and Stanford traditionally have sought some of the same players in the recruiting process. Holtz spe­cifically mentioned Cardinal sophomore Walter Batson, a receiver from Miami. 
"I think they're an excellent football team," Holtz said of the Cardinal. "It's always dif­ficult to evaluate somebody when you haven't played them, and we haven't even played any common opponents at this stage of the season." 
The Cardinal win was a 31-10 home victory over San Diego State. The two defeats include a 24-20 season-opening loss to Southern Cal, now the third­ranked team in the country, and a 7-3 struggle against Oregon, which reached the As­sociated Press Top 20 this week with a 3-0 record. 
"Southern Cal might very well be the second-best team in the country," Holtz said. "They beat Stanford in the last minute and 16 seconds. Oregon might be the number-three team in the country. The reason I say that is Washington State dis­mantled the University of Illi­nois and beat the University of Minnesota and lo and behold, Oregon beats Washington State 43-20. 
"Stanford may very well be the number-four team in the country." 
Notre Dame offense vs. Stanford defense 

The Notre Dame offense found another dimension in the Purdue game. The strong run­ning attack was accented by a 
Irish Extra: The Game 
newfound passing game. Junior quarterback Tony Rice com­pleted 4-of-6 passes for 85 yards, and the four quarter­backs used by Holtz were 8-of­14 for 147 yards against a highly-touted Boilermaker pass defense. 
"We're going to have to try to throw the football," Holtz said. "And that's always excit­ing." 
Fullback Tony Brooks ran for 110 yards on 11 carries against Purdue, leading the Irish to 321 yards rushing. Brooks will be splitting time be­tween fullback and tailback. 
Injuries have plagued the Irish at the fullback position, with Anthony Johnson expected to return to the starting lineup this week after re-injuring an ankle against Michigan State. Braxston Banks is out for four to eight weeks with torn knee ligaments, also suffered against the Spartans. 
The young Irish offensive line opened some holes for the backs against the Boiler­makers, but Andy Heck, Tim Ryan, Mike Heldt, Tim Grun­hard and Dean Brown will have another battle in the trenches against the Cardinal. 
"I think our offensive line is going to be challenged prob­ably more than we ever have," Holtz said. "Defensively is where they're really aggres­sive. (Defensive tackle) Lester Archambeau is one of the finest players that we will play against." 
Stanford has given up 41 points in three games this season. Archambeau, a 6-5, 255­pound defensive tackle, ac­cumulated 138 tackles in two seasons prior to 1988. He was an Associated Press honorable mention All-American last season and has another year of eligibility left after 1988. 
"With Archambeau and (Ray) Huckestein (nose guard), Stanford is the most impressive defense I have seen on film this year," Holtz said. "We're going to have a chal­lenge in just being able to be consistent on offense. We can't just give Stanford the ball all the time. 
"They really have impressed me," Holtz said. "They're very, very quick, very strong, they play very hard and they play well together." 
Stanford offense vs. Notre Dame defense 
The Cardinal is averaging 324 total yards per game (123 rushing, 201 passing), while the 
Irish have given up an average 
of 258.7 yards per game. 
"They go with a run-and­
shoot (offense)," Holtz said of 
Stanford. "They really don't 
have a tight end per se, they 
have two wide-outs, and then 
they have two flankers. They'll 
slot the flankers inside the split 
ends, and then they'll usually 
put one of them in motion." 
The one running back in Stan­
ford's scheme is junior fullback 
Jon Volpe, who leads the team 
in rushing (72 rushes for 324 
yards and three TDs) and re­
ceiving (13 for 84). 
Junior quarterback Brian 
Johnson (50 completions in 89 
attempts (.562), two TDs and 
three interceptions) has an ex­
tra receiver to work with. 
"Stanford is a well-conceived 
offense, one they execute very 
well," Holtz said, "and one that 
will give us a tremendous 
amount of problems. 
"We're not going to let that 
extra receiver run around free 
like he has been," said Irish 
strong safety George Streeter. 
"We plan to have all of them 
covered." 
Leading the Stanford offen­
sive line will be All-America 
candidate Andy Sinclair, whom 
many call the finest center in 
the country. 
"Sinclair they think is an All­
American," Holtz said. "I 
know that Coach Elway has 
made several comments that 
he's probably the best center 
in the country, so their offen­
sive line is good.'' 
Linebacker Mike 
Stonebreaker leads the Irish 
defense with 23 unassisted 
tackles, getting in on a total of 
36. Sophomore Chris Zorich is second on the team with 23 total tackles. Stonebreaker and Streeter are tied for the team lead in interceptions with two. 
John Hopkins handles the 
kicking and most of the punting 
for the Cardinal, hitting 4-of-8 
field goals with a punting 
average of 34 yards. His long 
punt is 50 yards. 
Most of Holtz' concerns about 
the Cardinal stem from the 
Stanford performance against 
Southern Cal. 
"I know from watching the 
film and from the type of per­
sonnel, the type of team South­
ern Cal has, to see how 
(Stanford) outplayed Southern 
. Cal," Holtz said. "It wasn't a case where Stanford was lucky to make it close, it was a case where Southern Cal had to make some great throws and great catches under pressure late in the ball game in order to pull that game out. Based on that, I know Stanford is good." 




Lester Archambeau (DT) 
The senior All-America can­didate has started 23 consecu­tive games at left tackle. He led the Cardinal with seven QB sacks in 1987. 
CARDINAL(S) TO WATCH 




averages 108 yards a game. 
1987.

:7r~~)~-.'·.;:::;.;r=q:;::rrF.~~':':'·;~Ir..1=1.,"':!.' .~~~=-~---~. :~ :.>' ----:-,----,-.r~·.~:~'*:.=:.~,·:.{.;-:.= .r=Jfjr,'''"""--·-~-.'=~F.~.£">1"-"'-..=~·::-'ir;:·~-:..~~:;;w.~:o::.:.:: ..:.;:;:::::-~';-::·.?;J:.:. -_,,iJ.;,. ;·_J~J:;l,~c~"'?;.-::-pJ.:~..:r..:.;'•~-:0!'..,:.:-...;,;.;~~-~;·,~:.~.~--=~':-::-~·< . . ~ ;'•<:.::~-~,:.·.-.~_,.~·::q:;;.,:.;o<-~.. ~.":..'f':':-.. •.-~· ·. 
• A ,

Irish Extra 
page 3 

Streeter ;_Roses for Irish in 
continued from page 1 
Streeter learned early how to · '.f first championship
deal with long days of school and football. As an athlete at ; NO, Four Horsemen stop Stanford 
Chicago Julian High School, he was on the move from 6 a.m. . j extra points. Quarterback until 8 p.m. ~ By VIC LOMBARDI Harry Stuhldreher played the 
"The school is on the far Sports Writer entire contest with a broken 
South Side," he said. "I lived ankle. And Don Miller--well, further north, and I had to Layden, Crowley, Don Miller was there. catch the bus every day. To get Stuhldreher and Miller. Except for the final score, to my first class, I had to be In their final game together, Pop Warner's Indians out of the house at six o'clock, the legendary "Four Horse­dominated in all the game's and I got home the same time· men" of Notre Dame were vic­statistics. Stanford outgained I get home now, eight o'clock, torious. They galloped away the Irish in total yards, 331-192, with practice and all." with a 27-10 win over Stanford and first downs, 17-7. N everthe­
in the 1925 Tournament of less, the Irish capitalized on 
Four players who graduated Roses. Knute Rockne's squad key Stanford turnovers to pullwith Streeter from Julian capped a perfect 10-0 season as out the victory. earned scholarships to play the Irish won their first-ever "We won by playing heads­
football. The tradition contin­national championship. up football," said Rockne. ued in the Streeter family and "We'd have won regardless of at Julian as Streeter's younger the breaks." brother, Sean, is a linebacker Time tO\ Stanford's massive All­at the University of Illinois. America fullback-quarterback
Another facet of Streeter's Capsule V Ernie Nevers muscled his team 
personality that is not apparent downfield to set up the game's on the football field is his in­first score--a 27-yard field goal 
volvement with the team's Fel­One member of that fabled by Murray Cuddeback. lowship of Christian Athletes Notre Dame backfield, Elmer The second quarter featured organization. Streeter is the Layden, stole the show as he the "Elmer Layden Show," as 
treasurer ("although we really displayed his sensational ver­the skinny fullback rushed for don't have much money to satility by contributing on both one touchdown and returned a worry about") and teammates sides of the ball. Layden 78-yard interception for a Kent Graham and Anthony finished with three touch­second score. Layden, known Johnson are president and vice downs, including two on inter­as the fastest man in football, president, respectively. ception returns. He also han­gave his team a 13-3 advantage 
dled the punting going into the lockerroom. responsibilities, booming kicks Midway through the third
"I'm a very religious per­The Observer I File Photo 60 yards downfield. stanza, Notre Dame's Edson," Streeter says. "I think The other Horsemen also Hunsinger picked up a loose
Stanford quarterback Brian Johnson will have to watch out for Irish
God is an important part of contributed to the Rose Bowl ball after a fumbled punt and
strong safety George Streeter and the Notre Dame defense. The
everyone's life, especially 
mine. The organization is led Irish have picked off seven passes in three games this season, with victory. When running back rambled in for the touchdown. ­
Jim Crowley wasn't scamper­
Streeter and linebacker Mike Stonebreaker hauling In two apiece. see ROSES, page 4
by Coach (Jim) Strong, and I ing for yardage, he was kicking 
think the discussions are very helpful to a lot of players." Big Game, now called The Sports Illustrated did a huge dance group that does routines Streeter's first year at Notre Band Play, Cal was receiving a kick­article and said Stanford would where other bands would have Dame was the team's last year off while trailing 20-19. With have lost if we'd been in an­majorettes twirl batons. They
continued from page 1
under Gerry Faust, and members of the Stanford band, other state entirely." insist they are not cheer­Streeter has noticed the when the director was fired. as well as some Stanford fans, And Stanford has noone but leaders, but the University has changes the program has un­The band protested by going on on the field, Cal took the kickoff itself to blame for the Tree, a none of those either, despite an dergone under Lou Holtz. strike and returned only after and made five laterals before mascot that takes its roots effort to establish such a group
the University allowed the a Cal player finally collided from the University seal. Stan­last year. 
"The attitude has changed band to be student-run and to with a Stanford trombone ford's athletic teams go by the "There was an entirely sep­since Coach Holtz has been have Arthur Barnes as direc­player upon entering the singular "Cardinal" because arate organization in campus here," Streeter says. "First tor. Barnes has served as direc­endzone with the winning they are named after the color, started by people who'd audi­year we found out we could win, tor since that time. score. not the bird. For a mascot, it tioned to be Dollies and didn't the second year we found out But the 1982 Cal-Stanford Black is quick to defend the was either a tree or something make it," said Black. "They that if we played well, we'd go game will forever live as the band's role in The Play. looking like one of those huge felt there was room for a dif­to a bowl game, and this year most famous (or infamous) "This had happened every cinnamon candies running up ferent organization like that on we expect to win, and we'll be moment involving the year before, when Stanford and down the field. campus. They didn't find much highly disappointed if we don't. LSJUMB. was about to win, we came "On the Stanford seal, support, and to be honest, they It's all in the attitude. down from the stands toward there's a tree," said Black. weren't very good." 
"Our goal is to be playing for The two schools form per­the end of the game to play the "Because it's hard to have a And now perhaps the most the national championship at haps the biggest rivalry on the post-game show," Black said. mascot that's a color, we radical collegiate marching ­the end of the year," Streeter West Coast, and their annual "They were excited, it was the decided to have a tree. It's our band in the country is heading says. "That's every team's football matchup simply is last play of the game, and some individual mascot, but there's for the school built on tradition. goal, but for us, I think it's at­referred to as the Big Game. band members were on the no school mascot to rival it." Notre Dame Stadium may tainable." On the final play of the 1982 field along with other fans. Ditto with the Dollies, a jazz never be the same. 



~--------------------------------------. 
P 
TAILBACK

Stanford Offense 
24 Mark Green

ff\ 
TAILBACK 28 Charlie Young 5 Rodney Culver ~o 15GaryTaylor 
Irish Offense FULLBACK 
FULLBACK 

p 
22 Anthony Johnson22Jon Volpe 40 Tony BrooksSLOTBACK 34 Scott Eschelman FLANKER 
P
80 Chris Walsh SPLITEND

12 Ricky Watters QUARTERBACK87 Jim Price (TE) 80 Steve Alaniz
13 Pat Eilers (iii) 9 Tony RiceQUARTERBACK
WIDE RECEIVER WIDE RECEIVER 25 Raghib Ismail(iii) 5 Brian Johnson 
TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 17 Kent Graham ~ 12Jason Palumbis 
4 Walter Batson TACKLE 17 Henry Green 
f\_ 88 Frank Jacobs 66 Andy Heck TACKLE
80 Chris Walsh 85 Robbie Coffin 6 Jon Pinckney 63 Jon Summers 
TACKLE 
p PPP f'f\ 73 John Zentner 
r """"fi P"'irp Pp~==""
~ 63 Jon Summers 
CENTER CENTER 
GUARD 55 Mike Heldt GUARD GUARD 54 Andy Sinclair GUARD 
52 Tim Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 75 Tim Grunhard 56 Andy Papathanassiou 55 Dan Nash 
62 Chuck Gillingham 
53 Winston Sandri 72 Joe Allen 67 John Mahoney 
67 John Mahoney 
Stanford Defense TACKLE so Chris Zorich TACKLE Irish Defense 
NOSE TACKLE 
TACKLE NOSE GUARD TACKLE 90 Jeff Aim 96 Steve Roddy 69 George Williams 
96 Scott Palmbush 53 Ray Huckesteln 72 Lester Archambeau DEFENSIVE END 87 Tom Gorman 74 Mirko Jurkovic DEFENSIVE END 
75 Steve Weber 92 Mark Hanson 76 Ryan Shea 30FrankStams ~ ~ • 7A d J 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER • ~ OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
!:! tl •

37 Scott Kowalkowski "" ~ ~ \g., 38 D~:~l ~~~don 64 Bruce Leng · · 43 Rob Hinckley 98 Chuck Robinson 93 Chris Hawkins 
CORNERBACK ~ ~ CORNERBACK 1 Todd Lyght INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 29 Stan Smagala INSIDE LINEBACKER ~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 
• 95 Jono Tunney 46 Kevin Richardson ~ 36 Donn Grimm 47 Ned Bolcar ~ 
33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike Stonebreaker 20 Bob Satterfield 
B 57 Eric Pierce 86 Barry McKeever ~ 
~::v~~~K ~ ttl COARNE~BACK
STRONG SAFETY FREE SAFETY ~ 
2

18 Brad Cook FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY lan rant 15 Pat Terrell 28 Greg Davis 
31 Corny Southall 27 George Streeter 41 Rick Theder 39 Rob Englehardt 18 Brad Cook 33 Mike Newton 7 Tony Trousset 
-
-... 

-----------~-----------·------­
...... 
4 

Stanford series when Layden returned his second intercep­
Roses 

ton for a touchdown.
continued from page 3 

But the Indians struck right That Notre Dame team was back as halfback Ed Walker considered by many the most connected with Ted Shipkey in alert squad ever to play the the endzone to cut the Irish lead game. Much of its success was to 20-10. due to the impeccable chemistry that the "Four Then, in the fourth quarter, Horsemen" displayed when 
Stanford was threatening from they were on the field together. the Irish 8-inch line. But a 
stingy Notre Dame defense The Horsemen reminded managed a memorable goal­everyone that football games line stand and prevented the In­aren't won on talent alone. dians from scoring. The victory They're won on strategy, wit was secured on the ensuing and, most of all, teamwork. 
L._IIR_IS_H_S~TA_T_S__________,IICARDINAL STATS 


TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP Rice 21 172 8.2 2 38 
TEAM STATISTICS SU OPP RUSHING NO YDS AVG TD LG Culver 10 61 6.1 1 36 
776 9 5.6 22
TOTAL OFFENSE 1029 Johnson 50 0 NOTRE DAME (3-0)
YARDS Belles 4 22 5.5 0 10 TOTAL OFFENSE 972 978 Volpe 72 324 4.5 3 31 d. MICHIGAN, 19-17Total Plays 191 200 Watters 11 21 1.9 0 13 
YARDS Eschelman 7 52 7.4 0 22 d. Michigan State, 20-3
Yards per Play 5.39 3.88 Banks 4 13 3.3 0 6 Blaisdell 1 15 15 0 15 
d. PURDUE, 52-7
Yards per Game 343.0 258.7 Setzer 6 12 2.0 0 3 Young 2 6 2.0 0 7
PENALTIES-YARDS 13-109 21-153 Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 Total Plays 204 204 Oct. 1 -STAN FORD 
Palumbis 2 -9 -4.5 0 0
FUMBLES-LOST 5-3 1-1 Eilers 1 6 6.0 0 6 Yards per Play 4.8 4.8 Oct. 8 -at Pittsburgh
Johnson 27 -19 -0.7 1 9
Yards per Game 324.0 • 326.0 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 51 45 Mihalko 2 5 2.5 0 3 Oct. 15-MIAMI By Rushing 38 20 K.Graham 2 3 1.5 0 3 Oct. 22-AIR FORCE By Passing 10 24 P.Graham 2 0 0.0 0 0 PENALTIES-YARDS 15-138 9-77 STANFORD 111 369 3.3 4 31 Oct. 29 -at NavyBy Penalty 3 1 Jarosz 2 -2 -1.0 0 0 OPPONENTS 124 439 3.5 4
FUMBLES-LOST 3-1 7-1 Nov. 5-RICETHIRD DOWNS-CONY 41-17 44-13 Ebert 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4 
Nov. 19-PENN STATE
Percentage 41.5 29.5 NOTRE DAME 153 813 5.3 4 38 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 56 53 
Nov. 26 -at Southern Cal
POSSESSION TIME 85:21 94:39 OPPONENTS 116 328 2.8 2 18 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TD
By Rushing 29 22 
Minutes per Game 28:27 31:33 
By Passing 27 27 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO By Penalty 0 4 
Johnson 89 50 .562 3 580 2 SCORING G TO S TP Rice 9 .333 2 175 4 1 23 0
PA R-PA FG 27 2 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 36-9 37-15 Palumbis 2 .500 
Belles 3 1 .333 0 34 1 STANFORD (1-2) 
su 93 52 .559 4 603 2Ho 3 0 9-9 0-0 0 6-7 27 Percentage 25.0 40.5
P.Graham 2 1 .500 0 16 0 I. SOUTHERN CAL, 24-20
OPP 80 46 .575 7 539 1Rice 3 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 K.Graham 5 2 .400 2 12 0 POSSESSION TIME 88:42 91:28 d. SD STATE, 31-10Watters 3 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 NO 37 13 .351 4 237 3 Minutes per Game 29:47 30:13 
I. Oregon, 7-3
Culver 1 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Green 3 1 0-0 o-o o o-o s OPP 89 45 .506 7 448 1 RECEIVING NO YOS AVG TD LG Oct. 1 -at Notre Dame 
Ismail 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Oct. 8-SAN JOSE STATE RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TD LG SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP
Brooks a 1 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 6 Oct. 15-ARIZONA STATE 
De.Brown 3 1 0 6 Ismail 80 26.7 1 Volpe 3 3 0-0 0 0-0 18 Volpe 13 64 4.9 0 12
o-o 0-0 0-0 3 54 0-0 Oct. 22-OREGON STATE
Brooks 2 52 26.0 1 34 Hopkins 3 0 6-6 0-0 0 4-8 18 Young 12 182 15.2 0 31
Stonebrkr 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Oct. 29-at Washington
Hackett 3 0 1-1 0-0 0 4 Green 2 37 18.5 0 38 Johnson 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Walsh 11 114 10.4 0 22
1-1 
Green Nov. 5 -WASHINGTON STATE
Eilers 2 23 11.5 0 13 Green 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 9 150 16.7 1 34 ND 3 10 10-10 0-0 0 7-8 91 
Alaniz 1 23 23.0 0 23 Price 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Batson 5 80 16.0 0 20 Nov. 12-at UCLA OPP 3 3 3-3 0-0 0 2-4 27 
Watters 1 12 12.0 0 12 Taylor 1 11 11.0 0 11 Nov. 19-at California 
De.Brown 1 8 8.0 1 8 Price 1 2 2.0 1 2 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TD LG Mihalko 1 2 2.0 0 2 Brooks 29 224 7.7 0 37 NOTRE DAME 13 237 18.2 3 54 su 3 6 6-6 0-0 0 4-8 54 STANFORD 52 603 11.6 2 34 Green 47 221 4.7 1 23 OPPONENTS 45 448 10.0 1 37 OPP 3 5 5-5 0-0 0 2-5 41 OPPONENTS 46 539 11.7 1 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE STANFORD OFFENSE STANFORD DEFENSENOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL RE 30 Frank Stams 6-4 237 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL LT 72 Laster Archambeau 6-5 255 Sr. SE 80 Steve Alaniz 6-2 196 Sr. 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226 So. WR 4 Walter Brown 5-10 175 So. 76 Ryan Shea 6-4 250 So. 
25 Raghib Ismail 5-10 175 Fr. LT 69 George Williams 6-3 282 So. 80 Chris Walsh 6-1 185 So. NG 53 Ray Huckastaln 6-2 265 Sr. QT 66 Andy Heck 6-7 277 Sr. 74 Mirko Jurkovic 6-5 270 Fr. LT 65 Robbie Coffin 6-5 275 Sr. 92 Mark Hanson 6-4 245 So. 64 Mike Brennan 6-5 246 Sr. NT 50 Chris Zorich 6-1 260 So. 63 Jon Summers 6-4 270 Sr. RT 96 Stave Palmbush 6-4 Jr.
255 

QG 52 Tim Ryan 6-4 245 So. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 249 Jr. LG 56 Andy Papathanasslou 6-4 265 Sr. 75 Steve Weber 
6-4 254 Sr. 
53 Winston Sandri 6-4 253 So. RT 90 Jeff Aim 6-7 246 Jr. 67 John Mahoney 6-3 255 Sr. OLB 43 Rob Hinckley 6-5 245 Sr. C 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 258 So. 87 Tom Gorman 6-6 255 Sr. c 54 Andy Sinclair 6-3 280 Sr. 93 Chris Hawkins 6-3 240 
Jr. 76 Gene McGuire 6-5 265 Fr. DE 7 Andra Jones 6-4 215 So. 55 Dan Nash 6-4 255 Jr. ILB 46 Kevin Richardson 6-3 228 Sr. TG 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 279 Jr. 38 Flash Gordon 6-3 214 Sr. RG 62 Chuck Gillingham 6-4 265 Jr. 86 Barry McKeever 6-3 240 Sr. 72 Joe Allen 6-4 268 So. 
67 John Mahoney 6-3 255 Sr. TT 71 0811n Brown 6-3 283 Jr. MLB 34 Wes Pritchett H 251 Sr. RT 73 John Zentner 6-5 282 Sr. ILB 95 Jono Tunney 6-2 235 Jr. 70 Marty Uppincott 6-5 284 Sr. 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 224 So. 63 Jon Summers 6-4 270 Sr. 57 Eric Pierce 6-2 230 So. TE 88 Frank Jacobs 6-5 234 So. ELB 42 Mike Stonebraaker 6-1 226 Jr. SL 80 Chris Walsh 6-1 185 So. OLB 64 Bruce Lang 6-3 225 Sr. 86 Derek Brown 6-7 235 Fr. 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 232. Sr. 87 Jim Price (TE) 6-4 240 Sr. 98 Chuck Robinson 6-2 245 So. QB 9 Tony Rice 6-1 198 Jr. CB 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 181 So. WR 17 Henry Green 5-10 170 Sr. CB 2 Alan Grant 5-10 187 Sr. 17 Kent Graham 6-5 228 So. ' 33 David Jandric 6-2 192 Jr. 6 Jon Pinckney 6-2 175 So. 18 Brad Cook 5-10 175 Sr. FB 22 Anthony Johnson IHl 225 Jr. CB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186 Jr. QB 5 Brian Johnson 6-2 195 Jr. ss 39 Rob Englehardt 
6-1 195 Sr. 40 Tony Brooks 6-2 218 So. 32 D'Juan Francisco 5-\1 167 Sr. 12 Jason Palumbis 6-3 205 So. 7 Tony Trousset 6-2 197 So. 
-
TB 24 Mark Green IHl 184 Sr. SS 27 George Streeter .&-2 212 Sr. TB 28 Charlie Young 6-1 205 Jr. FS 41 Rick Theder 6-3 210 Sr.5 Rodney Culver 6-0 212 Fr. 26 Greg Davis 6-1 198 So. 15 Gary Taylor 5-10 196 So. 33 Mike Newton 6-Q 195 Sr. FL 12 Ricky Watters 6-2 201 So. FS 31 Corny Southall 6-2 194 Sr. FB 22 Jon Volpe 5-7 195 Jr. CB 3 Kevin Scott 182 So.
5-11 13 Pat Eilers 5-11 182 Fr. 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 195 Jr. 34 Scott Esi::helman 6-2 227 Sr. 18 Brad Cook 5-10 175 Sr. PK 2 Raggla Ho 5-S 135 Sr. P 16 Jim Sexton s-o 188 So. PK 94 John Hopkins IHl 180 So. p 88 Jeff Blaisdell 6-2 195 Sr. 18 Billy Hackett 6-1 184 So. 14 Sean Connor 6-7 218 Sr. 49 David Durkin 5-11 165 So. 94 John Hopkins 6-0 180 So. 



-PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to Pete Sklko Jane Shea Steve Megargee Marty Strasen Theresa Kelly Michael Chalmer a Steve Nlcgorskl pick the winner of a given game. Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Random Student Guest Celebrity The person must pick the winner 22-19-0 20-21-0 18-23-0 17-24-0 15-26-0 22-19-0 17-24-0 





.537 
.488 .439 .415 .366 .537 .415 (last week: 7-7-Q) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 5-9-0) (last week: 4-10-0) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 9-5-0) 
and give the underdog points. 
Home team is in CAPS. 

Pitt over BOSTON COLLEGE by 4.5 
---
Golden Eagles Golden Eagles Panthers Panthers Golden Eagles Panthers Panthers TENNESSEE over Wash. State by 2.5 Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers CougarsMICHIGAN STATE over Iowa by 3.5 Hawkeyes Spartans Spartans Hawkeyes Spartans Hawkeyes SpartansAlabama over KENTUCKY by 10 Crimson Tide Wildcats 
Wildcats Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Lsu at FLORIDA plck'em Tigers 
Gators Tigers Tigers Gators Gators TigersMichigan over WISCONSIN by 22 
Wolverines Badgers Wolverines Wolverines Badgers Badgers Wolverines Minnesota at PURDUE plck'em 
Boilermakers Boilermakers Boilermakers Boilermakers Gophers Gophers Boilermakers MIAMI over Missouri by 27 
Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes TigersUcla over WASHINGTON by 12.5 
Huskies Bruins Huskies Huskies Bruins Huskies Bruins Texas over RICE by 19 Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Owls Owls Longhorns Owls Penn State over TEMPLE by 13 Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Florida State over TULANE by 27 
Green Wave Seminoles Seminoies Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Usc over ARIZONA by 7 Trojans 
Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans TrojansNOTRE DAME over Stanford by 14 
Cardinal Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

.. 



Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 

~~ 
; 
.. 


the blues often 
up images of drunk ing in their beers, the 
in Chicago are not to go if all you want drink. A night of would get quite ex-
e. Beer costs $2-3 a bot­~lues Etcetera, and ·s are $6-7 at Cotton 0. 

't need to drink to 
blues, however. 
bars succeed in a good time whe­emptied your 
.,.,t,t>h<>r or are halfway your first coke. Just realm of this forgot­and feel the joy, , and feel the feel. 
way, Blues Et­more than Old 
DAVID DESALLE accent writer 
T 
he diversity of styles found on Big Audio Dynamite's new album, Tighten Up Vol. 88, definitely require more than one listen­ing just to take them in. 
This record does not have an underlying theme like their previous albums, Big Audio Dynamite, and No. 10 Upping Street. Many different issues are dealt with such as racism, personal imperfec­tion, relationships, fate, Im­elda Marcos, and of course, Jamaica. The songs are catchy tight pieces filled with tongue-in-cheek humor. 
B.A.D. is led by Mick Jones, former guitarist/ vocalist for the Clash. His masterful guitar tracks are carefully laid down and when combined with Greg Robert's frisky drumming and Leo 'E­Zee-Kill' Williams' restless bass lines, the result is a fine 
the feelies 
• • 

Big Audio Dynamite 
hybrid of reggae, rock, and a 
~~~ J' ~~· ~.,~.-..r~/
touch of pop. Don Letts adds ' 
• • ................ 

All things considered, Tighten Up Vol. 88 is a decent album. The variety of musi­cal styles on the album demonstrates B.A.D.'s humor and drive. Their sound is a little more mellow than in previous albums but this fits the feel of the record. It is an interesting, diverse album that really grows on you. Al­though it may not be up for Album of the Year, it is well worth a listen. 
question--"Just be goodDo 
what you should-You know 
it'll be all right." Throughout 
Only Life the lyrics are lucid 
and, by the end, it seems as 
though the band members 
have arrived someplace. 
Themes of transit are very evident all through the al-· bum, just as they were on The Good Earth. The song titles themselves display this­·"Higher Ground," "Away" and "Too Far Gone" (which can also be found on the Married To The Mob soundtrack). Despite all the rootlessness evidenced in these songs, there is a real resolution in the firmness of the album's last song "What Goes On." 
With Only Life being touted as The Feelies's "breakthrough" album in as bizarre a place as TIME Magazine, they're certainly a band to keep an ear on. As with a lot of so-called "al­ternative" bands, The Feelies aren't hardcore or weird or Crazy New Wave. They're different from anything cur­rently in the Top 40, but they're also as listenable as (and I think much more lis­tenable than) anything you're likely to hear on any Top 40 radio station. 
My advice for this fall is to treat yourself to The Feelies. Take a risk. You won't regret it. . 
Lou ReedREM genre, with elements of bands as diverse as The Talking Heads and the Beatles thrown in for confu­sion. They put me in mind of kicking leaves, wood smoke, the weather turning cold, trees changing colors. I don't really know why. 
Just in time for this fall, The Feelies have released a new album. It's (!ailed Only Life and it is definitely one of the best albums of this year. 
As you know if you have their near-perfect second al­bum, The Good Earth, The Feelies are an album band. Only Life doesn't depart too much from the sound they built for themselves on that album, but that's nothing to complain about. Rhythmically and texturally, they remain the same, but the big surprise here is the prominence of the lyrics. 
"It's Only Life" starts off the album by asking "What does it mean?!What can you do about it?" and the album closes with what may be seen as the answer to that funny pre-recorded effects and shares most of the writing credits with Jones. Dan Donovan's keyboards round out the sound. 
The first track "Rock and Roll CAll Night Long)" is a good party song with a confi­dent, almost rap, beat, while "Other 99" is surprisingly reminiscent of the Clash. It has a solid guitar intro. and multitrack layering of the vocals. 
"Funny Names" is a clever song against racial prejudice. It begins: "A stranger is a friend! You just don't know/ With a shake of the hand! We could give it a go." The JoneS" Letts writing duo has packed a lot of power into easy words and a carefree melody. 
One of the album's most interesting pieces is called "Esquerita." It is about an undesirable character from Greenville, South Carolina who is either very ornery or just plain crazy. The sound is best described as a mix be­tween Lou Reed and Ringo Star on speed. 
KEVIN WALSH accent writer 
S 
orne songs remind me of times in my life. There are some very definite high school songs. Some songs remind me of a certain sum­mer. Others remind me of vacations. 
In this same way, certain songs and certain bands remind me of seasons. Prefab Sprout is a winter band. The Smiths are a spring band. The Feelies, though, are a fall band. 
The Feelies' sound is swirl­ing and wispy and changing. They are somewhere in the 
-. -< 
"The Battle of All Saints Road" is a real treat because Don Letts sings some slightly silly reggae scat in between phrases of the old classic "Dueling Banjos." 
"2,000 Shoes" is a dance­able satire. Over a strong, fast beat, the lyrics scald Im­elda Marcos. Jones sings: "Never had a conscience! Or any moral viewS" Even any kind of taste! Just 2,000 shoes." 
--~~--~ ~ ---·--~--~ 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988
page 12 The Observer
.•. 
Bill and Mary: groping toward the truth 
Iwish I were smart enough context and so, perhaps, ning sit-coms are more women liberated when they ing abortions: "What are we 
to write a play about a unfairly--that I'd like you to relaxed. The old decencies cease to want children, or if to do, let these kids drown in couple named Bill and Mary. look at. are no longer in existence. they fearlessly hand their their own children? They are They may have been Cat-Act I: In the town where Bill and Mary ask them-kids over to daycare centers children themselves. Theyholies once and may be Cat-Bill and Mary live, some of selves how they can protect or their husbands? Are men can't even take care of them-holies again before they die. the residents are picketing a the children learning to bring liberated when they lose in-selves, never mind one baby,At present, if you ask them bookstore that sells sex their fantasies under the con-terest in their jobs, preferring their religion, they'll answer magazines and films. These trol of conscience, learning to to stay home and care for ''Are women"Christian." If you ask them residents demand to know set aside the lustful side of their children? how they would otherwise why this outrage is tolerated. themselves in favor of a They finally figure out that liberated when label th~mselves, they'd tell On television they begin to reasonable civility. How are children need both their par-they cease to want you "liberal." I'd like to show hear the answers from they to protect the children ents; that mothers are not you their struggles as liberal lawyers and libertarians: from an entire culture that fathers, and fathers .are not children, or if they Christians trying to be sensi-freedom of speech and has become coyly or blatantly mothers, nor ought the two be 
fearlessly hand

tive to some of the tou~h freedom of the . "We pornographic? blurred into one, as in the · As the act closes, we see dreary neuter word "parent-their kids over to them picketing the bookstore ing." 
daycare centers or
Father Robert Griffin and burning copies of Hustler Mary, working as a volun­
and Playboy, realizing that teer in a teenage pregnancy their husbands?" 

letters to a lonely God actions like these multiplied a center, finds that abortion is thousand times over will not not the answer for the 15-never mind four or five save the children from the year-old girl who wants to more." problems that come up in a must beware of setting our-filth present everywhere. keep the child she is bearing, Another doctor tells them: country that is increasingly selves up as holier-than-thou Act II: Bill and Mary be-nor would sex education pro-"We treat symptoms, not secular. judges of others." come involved in women's grams or contraceptives have causes, when we offer abor-
As a Catholic, I wouldn't Bill and Mary see a repre­
liberation. The issue for them saved her from trouble. The tions to young women who want you to think that the sentative display of the girl tells her doctor: "All I are lost, bewildered, 
play contains any original store's merch.andise and find "How are they to want is a baby; then I can desperately hungry for a thinking on my part. If our it obscene and disgusting. forget the rest of the world sense of purpose and meaning
country is having trouble, it's They have the same low protect the and try to be nice to her and in life, for something and trouble for everyone, Catholic opinion of Hustler and someone to believe in." Jesus 
children from an make up for what I missed." 
or not. I'd make it perfectly Playboy, which are on sale at offered great and humble love 
Another 15-year-old says, 

clear that the three acts are newsstands and in drugstores entire culture that to such women, the doctor 
"This baby will be a gift of

based on entries I found in and grocery stores all over points out, and saw in their 
has become coyly God to me. There is no one in
"Harvard Diary," by Robert town. They begin to wonder if ' pain and loneliness His own.
the world who cares about

Coles, a Harvard psychiatrist. their outrage and dismay at or blatantly por-Act Three: Bill and Mary 
me, only God, and I feel Him
If I could trust you to read what may be seen increas-move into a neighborhood
nographic?" looking at me sometimes, and
"Harvard Diary," I wouldn't ingly often in movies or on heavily populated by 
He must have felt sorry for 

pressure you to attend my television, mean that they are homosexuals, and they work 
me, so He sent this baby to

play. If I did borrow from Dr. old-fashioned and puritanical. is not whether women hard to replace their 
me."

Coles' book to write the play, Still, they feel justifiably dis-deserve equal pay for equal prejudices with tolerance, 
I'd have to get permission turbed when sexuality turns work, or deserve entry into The doctor who befriends compassion, and understand-from the author, as well as into harsh, manipulative ex-the professions, but whether Bill and Mary diagnoses the 
ing. When the fellow next 
his approval of the text. I hibitionism. The old days are women are liberated when adamant wish of a 15-year-old door accuses Bill of beinghave no such approval of the gone, they are told; the cen-they finally become well-paid child to have a baby as psyc­scenes you findhere. I've just sorship of the movies is gone. executives and as competitive hopathology at work. He See GRIFFIN, page 8 borrowed some ideas--out of The afternoon soaps and eve-as their male colleagues? Are defends himself for perform-
UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
BRINGS YOU THREE P'S TO ENJOY DURING THE STANFORD GAME WEEKEND 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PIZZA-N.Y. STYLE SHEET PIZZA. OUR FULL SHEET IS LARGER THAN 2, 16 INCH ROUND PIZZAS, OR WE'LL CUT IT IN HALF, OR EVEN A QUARTER-WE'LL FILL ANY APPETITE. 
LOWEST PRICES EVERYDAY, PLUS 3 COUPON SPECIALS TO MAKE YOUR PRE OR POST GAME PARTY COMPLETE. 
THE CARDINAL
FROM LOU'S IRISH DELIVERED TO THE FIGHTING IRISH WILL DELIVER THE PAIN, BUT WELL DELIVER THE BEST TO YOU, FAST, HOT, & FREE. 
18055 SR23 FOR FREE DELIVERY CALL: (BEHIND CAMPUSVIEW) 
OPEN AT NOON SATURDAY. OPEN UNTIL 3 a.m. FRIDAY & SATURDAY. (LOOK FOR OUR OTHER SPECIALS ON
277-8889 
THE BACK COVER OF THE NOOMC STUDENT BUSINESS DIRECTORY)
MATT HIGHBARGER-ND '89-0WNER 
---------------...--------------·------------­
1 50 CENTS OFF I $1.00 OFF I $2.00 OFF I 
I ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA II (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) (LARGER THAN TWO 16" ROUND PIZZAS) I 
I FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY I
I I 


I 277-8889 I 277-8889 1 277-8889 1 
II 
UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1(}23-88 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 1(}23-88 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DEliVERY exp. 1(}23-88 I 18055 ST. RD. 23 18055 ST. RD. 23 118055 ST. RD. 23
I I 
~--------------------------------------------· 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Tile oe..wrNotAl Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, KCepts classified edwftlstng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile oe..wr Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, KCepta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five chanctenl per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n-7406 
CHRISTMAS SHOPPING WITH AVON 2n-7406 
WORD PROCESSING 
CALL TERRIE 287-1213 LASER PRINTER PAPERS, RESUMES (VARIETY TYPE STYLES, SAVIWPDATE), EN­VELOPES, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, ALSO PICKUP,OELIVERY. 11.25 OS, 51.50 SS, 55.00 RESUMES. 
WORDPROCESSINO-TYPING 272-U27 
Mall "Schmeal" Gallagher lor VP 
DO YOU LIKE JAZZ.? DO YOU LIKE REOOAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM MAKEBA I HUOH MASEKELA In con­cert SUNDAY, OCT. 8 llllpm In Stepen Center. 239-7442 & 239-4826. 
WHY PAY 125 TO 135 AT CARNEGIE HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA I HUOH MASEKELA In concert Sundlly, Oc1. 9 Ill 8pm In Stepen Center lor ONLY 14 to 1101 239-7442 & 284-4826 
TEXTBOOKS -Bought I ~ooka lor ALL eta.... atilt available! UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora'a Booka, 808 Ho-rd St., Juat off of NO Ave. 233-2342. 
Yoo liked them on Paul Slmon'a Oraceland World Tour; You'lllove them in peraonl Mlr1am Makeba I Hugh u..akale In Concert Sunday, Oc1. 8 at lpm In Stepen Center. 239-7442 & 284-4626 
ALL ARE INVITED TO ST. EDWARD'S HALL ON MONDAY OCTOBER 3RD AT 7:00 PM TO HEAR FATHER HES. BUROH SPEAK ABOUT ''THE U.S PRESIDENTS I HAVE KNOWN." 
MAKE THE PLUNGE, AN URBAN PLUNGE. EXPERIENCE THE CON­
CERNS AND ISSUES OF AN INNER CITY NEAR YOU, AND OF THE PEOPLE WHO WORK WITH THOSE IS· SUES. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON· CERN 239-5293 OR SEE YOUR DORM REP DEADLINE OCT 311 
GREG MATTEO'S LEGS DRIVE ME WILD I 
LOST/FOUND 
Foond: gold cham w1th crucifix in O'Shag 3rd noor woman's bathroom on Wednes­day, Sept. 21. Call 283-2899 to identify. 
I loal a blue JANSPORT backpack with gray canvas botlom:.. t will pay $35 lor the contents or $20 lor the folders and notebooks.II can be arranged so that you Will not be 1denl1l1ed. Doug 234 Pangborn x2358. 
FOUND A paor of sunglasses on Green Fl81d before the Michigan game Call Chns' 3614 
LOST KEY I Sal. 24, Room 389 REWARD 284-517411 
I lost my read1ng gla889s at the Purdue game! They were in a Vuamel case There w111 be a reward! Call Maria SMC 4349 
LOST! LOST! LOST! GOLD CHAIN LINK BRACELET LOST! LOST! LOST! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL FRAN AT ' 2999, I 3023 
FOUND -In Alumni Hall on 9'17, single key to rm. 343. Call Tim at x1712 to Identify key chain and claim. 
I c.on't rud thla but you c.on. I Juat loat my gta.... under blzzara cln:umatancea, and not only am 1 In grave danger of nunklng virtually all of my cte...., but alao c.on't qulta make out the acoreboard Ill home gamea. Help me flgu1'11 out when to cheer: Noltly Paige at x2923 of any gla-a-alghtlnga. They are of lm­'"""aurable Hntlmental value to me. 
LOST A Gold Chain was lost Saturday on lhe quad between the South Dining Hell and Badin. If found, contact VInce at 1606. There Is a reward/ 
S$$$$ 

Lost !v.!71 Blue Notre Dame bocJkb"lJ ,;;jii, gray su-botlom. Please retum to 206 Lew1s Hall or call Lenore at I 2198. No questions asked. I really need my notes and notebooks back as soon as possible Midterms start Thursday and without my notes Dad WONT be happy. 
Whoever took my green backpack from South Dining Hall Tues. plesse retum rt. AI least my notebook and folder. Kris x2599. 
LOST: Blue-laded Levi jacket. Left In U­brary Auditorium on Sept. 22. II loond, please contact Kevin at1128. Thank yoo. 
FOR RENT 
4 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE NOW $400MO. 654-3977 leave message 
ROOM FOR RENT, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. FOR INFO CALL CHRIS x1073 
House on Allen St. has a roommate opanlng. 1 male roommate needed. Will have own bedroom, washer & dryer, ml· crowave, cable t.v. and dishwasher. Rent Is $150 a month plus utilities. This is a great place I Call Jefl, Roger, or Brian at 287-n52. 
FURNISHED 2-BDRM. HOME & ROOMS NEAR CAMPUS. 272-e308. 
do your parents need a place to stay tor football weekends? try the "Irish bed & breakfast" --located 2 miles from n.d. lor Into. ring 272-n38 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 2111­281-7153. 
································································ 
WANTED 
HIRING! Government joba -your area. $15,Q00-$68,000. Call (602) 838-9885. EXT 6262. 
ATTENTION FOOD FANATICS 
IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOUI 
PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECES. SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST REQUIRED I) 
CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272· 11122. 
Need ride to and from St. Loois lor Oc­tober break. Will share expanses. call Chris at x1382. 
...................................... 

NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR BANQUET SERVERS AND BUS HELP. THESE ARE ON-CALL POSITIONS AND THERE IS SOME WEEKEND WORK INVOLVED. APPLY IN PERSON AT THE UNIVERSITY CLUB ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. 
WANTED TO BUY: Scooter or Moped! Need not be pretly. Will pay $CASH$ on the spoil Call Tony at 298-6603. 
OPENING SOON COACH'S SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT 
Now accepting appllcetlonalor cooke, bu-a, aervera, etc. Beneflta, paid vacllllona, llpa. Part time, 1-20 hra. Full time, 40 hra. or mo1'11 Apply from 1-7, Mon.-Fr1. Very CION to C.mpua. Phone 2n-7878. 2046 State Road 23. 
WANTED PERSON TO SHARE A HOME, 20 MIN FROM NO CALL PAM 237-5457; 8-5 
wanted: translator or Czech paper 239­5027, 272-9956 ........................................................ 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272·5959 ANYTIME. 
FLORIDA CONDO ON THE OCEAN 
2 bedroom, 2 bath corner apartment on the Atlantic Ocean In Pompano Beach, Florida. New carpet, drapes, and fridge, lreshly painted, semi-furnished. $139,900.1nterested, call (219)283-2069 or (305) 843-3098. 
AIRLINE TICKET: AT anywhere in con­tinental U.S. on United. Ticket good until March '89. Asking $300. Call Karin at 283-2899. 
ROUND TRIP TICKET FROM SB TO NEWARK FOR THANKSGIVING CALL MIKE 11628 
T-SHIRTSIII Screw U KILL THE CANES GO IRISH! Call 271-8311 ask lor Pete D 
FOR SALE: THANKSGIVING BREAK FLIGHT TIX, from S. Bend to Newark, NJ. and back to NO on Sunday. Must sell by Saturday! Call Mike, x2046 
CARPET REMNANTS FOR SALE. OLIVE GREEN. REASONABLE PRICE CALL JOE X4137 BY FRI 900 FOR DETAILS 
See THE CHURCH<WIRE in Chicego OCT 6. $15 lor chartered bus AND drinks Call 4812 ASAP lor into 
1979 BEIGE CHEVETTE. GOOD SHAPE. 75,000 MILES. $800. CALL 255-5125. 
TICKETS 
WONDERFUL FAMILY TO VISIT DOMER SLOBI I nMd 3 OIA'a to AIR FORCE. Call Chr1a eltar 8:00 P.M. x3319 
································································ 
Will trade 1 Miami stud. lick and $$ for 2 Penn Stale GA's. Call Allison X4341 
NEED OA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALL OAME(S). CALL TOM 272.0058. 
SIS$$ 
Need 2 or 4 GAs-ANY HOME GAME x2707 Melissa 
HELP HELP HELP need live STAN­FORD GA'S Tony I 2020 
I NEED STANFORD GA's I NEED STANFORD GA's BIG $$$$$$$$ 'S CALL ED 1753 
WANTED: 2 PENN ST OA'S. TRISH x4003 
I NEED TIXS FOR All HOME GAMES.272-e308 
desparely need 2 gas lor miami (upset) game 2723491 
NEED TWO GA'S & 1 STUDENT TIX FOR MIAMI PARENTS WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$$ CALL STEPH 1319 
MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED FOR MOM AND DAD AND THEIR FRIENbS. 6 GA, 4 STUD. WILLING TO TRADE STAN­FORD GA'S. CALL 233-3027. 
Need 1 MIAMI STUD Ticket, Please call ANNE 13736 
I need 2 AF GA'sl DAWNx2286 
2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR 
SALE.272-6863 
................................................................ 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR NO­STANFORD. COLLECT: 215-539-3421. 
2 Miami GA's 4 sale-best offer­Grag(904 )492-1404 
Dude. I need Miami tickets. Bad. I'll pay anything reasonable. Call x2343. Make an offer. 
................................................................ 
MI-AM-I in need or 3 Miami stud tix and 1 Miami GA please call $$JEFF at 3528 $$ 
I Need 1-2 MIAMI# 1934 
I HAVE MANY TIX FOR ND-AF. WILL TRADE OR SELL. CALL COLLECT 312-583-5840 OR 312-599-3210. 
I NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, STANFORD, RICE, PENN ST. CALL COLLECT 312­583-5840 OR 312-599-3210. 
................................................................ 
NEED PENN ST. TKTS.(ST OR GA) WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALL JOE 2n­0725 
Help my little league coach needs 2 STANFORD GA's. x1604 Rob 
4 Lawyers In love need llx lor Stanford Make them happyCall 2723491 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN STAND RICE­CALL MIKE I 1628 
HELP CONVERT I.U. FANS TO THE IRISH. I NEED 4 OR 6 G.A.'s FOR AIR FORCE. TOGETHER IF POSSIBLE CALL JOE 272-9591 $$$$ 
I HAVE 2 50 YO LN STAN GAS CALL 2n-2486 
NEED STANFORD GAs. CALL CHRIS AT x1073 
Dad needs 1 or 2 GA's lor Miami Any seat--any price Call Magan at 4824 
COULD SOMEBODY PLEASE SELL ME THREE PENN GA'S CALL PAT 283-1n5 
I NEED TWO STANFORD TIX PREFERABLY 1 STUD AND 1 GA CALL MARIA SMC 4349 
Cold Cash Warm Loving HOT SEX Will do anything lor 2 Miami students or GAa CANDACE 287-5758 
NEED STANFORD GAa: call Jeff at 3151 lor lop offer. 
I NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. PLEASE 
CALL ROD AT 289-4315 
I need at least 2 Stanford GA's Cell Ken at I 3122 
NEED 2 or 4 GAa lor STANFORD MIAMI OR AIR FORCE x1999 NICK 
I HAVE TWO FIFTY-YARD LINE TICK­ETS FOR MIAMI AND TWO GA's EACH FOR ALL OTHER HOME GAMES. I DESPERATELY NEED THREE PENN STATE TICKETS, GA's OR STUDENT, AND WOULD LIKE TO TRADE THE MIAMI TICKETS OR ANY OTHERS FOR YOUR PENN STATE. CALL ANNE, x2764. 
I have 2 GA's lor Stanlord ... call Anne at 2764. 
I HAVE GA's FOR ALL HOME GAMES...WILL TRADE FOR PENN STATE TICKETS. CALL ANNE AT 2764. 
I NEED 1 MIAMI AND 3 PSU TIX X2984 BETH 
HELPII I Still need PENN GAa. Please call Nancy 4434 
HELPIII I NEED 3 PENN STATE fiX­
STUDENT OR GA--FOR MY LONG­
LOST BROTHERS AND SISTERSII 
HELP TO BRING THE FAMILY BACK 
TOGETHER AGAIN--PLEASEII x4975 
Aileen. 
I NEED STANFORD TIX MIKE 4113 
I need 2 Penn State student or GA's. 
Call Karen x4281 

I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S -DAN x4115 
NEED 2 OR 4 STANFORD TICKETS (can trade Air Force or Rice llcketa) CALL PATTI AT 2no 
2 STANFORD stud llx lor sale to highest 
bidder -call Kelly 1 3864 

PI•H, oh pleaH ... Sell me two Air Force GAa. I'll aim high ~ you will. II yoo can help, call x1151. 
ATTENTION: Head G.A.a lor Rice I C.II Dan3479 
$$$$DESPERATE! Need only two more 
STANFORD GA's PLEASE, PLEASE call 
Riles x1615 

I NEED 2 TIX (STUDENT OR GA) FOR 
BOTH MIAMI AND PSU. CALL BROCK 
AT 2n-4673. 

WHY PAY 125 TO 135 AT CARNEGIE HALL? See MlntAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oc1. 9 Ill lpm In Stepen Center lor ONLY 14 to $1011 239-7442 & 284-4626 
WHEN I GOT HIT BY A CAR EVERY­ONE SAID, "LETME KNOW IF YOU NEED ANYTHING." WHAT I REALLY NEED IS 2 STANFORD GA'SI PLEASE HELPI CALL LISA 4945 
FOR SALE: 2 Stanford stud tix & 1 Air Force stud. Call 288-2314. 
1 or 2 Stan. Stud llx and 1 Miami Stud tix 4 sale cheap. Call Mike or Scotl 1 1586 
DESPERATLY need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ 287-5451, KEN. 
1 STUD MIAMI TIX FOR SALE -BEST OFFER BY 1~ CALL 1370 -HEATHER 
MIAMI TICKETS WANTED Will trade Stanford, Air Force, or $$$$ lor 2 Miami GA's. Call John at 2089. 
TWO Student MIAMI tickets lor sale. Call Chris after 10:30 P.M. 288-4931. 
FOR SALE: I MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL MARY AT 
SELLING 2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX CALL 1283 
TIX 4 SALE 1 STU. MIAMI & 1 STU. AIR FORCE BEST OFFER -X4179 
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­0988 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. 
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­0988 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. 
NEED MIAMI TIX 2 GN.! Stud call 272-3767 
READY end WILLING 

to trade ANY home game ticket lor 2 Penn State GAa or 1 student. Call Jacqui at 272-7690. 
Will trade MIAMI stud lor 2 STAN GAa. x1437 
I have 10 Miami GA's -Need I say more. Leave best offer at 284-5225. 
WILL PAY BIG$$$ FOR 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL MONTE X15n 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'SI Will trade 1 Air Force Sl Tckt e $. Price negotiable. Any reasonable offer accepted. Please cell Jim X3681 
1 STAN. & 5 MIAMI STU. TICKETS AVAILABLE. BRIAN 289-8020 
STANFORD, MIAMI, PENN STATE STUDENT TIX FOR SALE CALL MIKE AT 1228 
I'VE GOT 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR THE . HIGHEST BIDDER AT 1089. CALL NOW I 
STANFORD STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE, 232-8327. 
FAMILY TRAUMA FORCES SALE OF STANFORD TICKET. CALL PAT i027 
NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$. CALL CAROLE 3296. 
FOR SALE: One Air Force student ticket. I can even give you a non-picture 10 to use with rt. I'm only looking lor some money to spand in the Bahamas. II you need the ticket, call Jim Winkler at 1109 or afternoons at 239-7471. 
WILL TRADE STANFORD GAS FOR 
AIR FORCE. 239-7204 OR 233-3412 
I want to trade my 4 Miami GAa-2 pair-lor 
3 good Miami GAa together Call Jeff 602­
795-3286 

NEED 5 STANFORD TIX Stud or GA 
Call Mark 2n-4673 

IF YOU'VE GOT $$$, I'VE GOT TICK­
ETS! AIRFORCE 2 GA & 2 STU MIAMI 
2 STU BEST OFFER X38&5 NEED: 1 Stanlord Stud. Tix. Allison x1297 
NEED: 1 Miami Stud. Tlx. Kristen x1298 
ANYONE OUT THERE NEED A STAN­FORD STUDENT TICKET? CALL CHRIS IMMEDIATELY AT X2923. PRICE NEGOTIABLE. 
F-SALE 2 STANFORD OA'a. to hlghHt bidder by 8:00 tonight, cell 1181 and leave offer, n11me and number 
stanford, rice and airlorce student tlx lor sale $15 call 4688 
HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Miami GAa, yes I said 15. Will pay much $. Good seats prei91Ted. Plasse call Pete 
at 287-5871. 
................................................................ 
NEED MIAMI GA'S. 1063. 
................................................................ 
PERSONALS 
Thank you St. Jude and the Holy Spirit; yoo have never tailed me. JMB 
................................................................ 
LIVE MUSIC 10 PM-? NO COVER BDKO MARU AT MCCORMICK'S 115 N. MICHIGAN DOWNTOWN 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-While Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741· 1338. 
i:i'esPeFi.A:l-Ei:v..NeEo·2-PENN.sr.A:r'E 
GAS AND 2 MIAMI STUDENT TIXS. PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT 2n-3268 AFTER 5 P.M. 
................................................................ 
TO SOMEONE WHO'S NOT QUITE OVER THE HILL HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JILL! 
................................................................ 
Boober Crayon -CThat Chick was mar­ginal at best; your judgement was in error. I guess what they say is true, Bob; NO CHICK IS UGLY AFTER TWO A.M. II ­541 Pari< Lane 
................................................................ 
A lonely, good-looking man Is looting lor Penn State tickets, either student or GA. Will offer sexual sacrifices at any hour. Call Danny at 1 1450 
................................................................ 
Help! I need a ride to Boston Mass tor Oct Break Will help pay expenses! Call Jason x2343 
................................................................ 
TO THE WONDERFUL YOUNG WO­
MAN WI THE DARK HAIR AND BEAUTIFUL SMILE,ABOUT 5'4",WE'VE EX­CHANGED MANY HELLO'S,MOST RECENTLY AS YOU ENTERED GATE 17 FOR THE PURDUE FOOTBALL GAME. (YOU WERE LATE) OH YEAH,YOU ALSO HAD A WHITE RIB­BON IN YOUR HAIR. WHEW! I HOPE THAT'S ENOUGH! YOU KNOW ME, I'M THE TALL ONE. I'D LOVE TO MEET YOU.--A TRUE ROMANTICIST. 
ANYONE WANTING TO TRY SKYDIV­ING CALL DEAN I 287-3024 
ST Jude Help ,;:,~· i~ ·;,:;;.--~;~;~;·;;;;;i·.;,:, 
................................................................ 
FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL FALL FESTIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL COMING NEXT WEEK ......... 
SPRINOBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 50 A. Yachta Bimini Bahamaa Groupe of 8 $435.00 PP 7 daya 1-aD0-1199-7245 Arrange Small Group & CruiH F­
GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID Anti Apartheid Networl< FRIDAY VIGIL 12:15 PM Dome steps 
SATURDAY, OCT. 1ST IS COMINGII OR SHALL I SAY MIDNITE FRIDAY? JOHN QUINN WILL BE LEOALII JOHN QUINN WILL BE LEOALII SAY GOODBYE TO THEODORE'SII WANNA MEET AT SENIOR BAR? PSYCHI HAPPY 21ST B-DAY QUINNII HAPPY 21ST B-DAY QUINNII LOVE, JULES 
Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher 
HELP! It's Paige again, and I need an­other ride to Milwaukee, specifically Mar­quetle University. I'd love to pay yoor gas and tolls. II anyone is leaving the rooming of Sat. Oct. 1 and returning Sun. Oct. 2, please call x2923. 
TWO ITALIAN BLONDS NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TliiS WEEKEND AND WE'LL SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALL X371 8 
JVC'a, Holy Croaa A..octetea, Peace Corpa Learn more about theml Polll Orad Opportunltlea Night Oc1. 4, c.s.c., 7-10 pm 
Hey Senloral Juat lor youl Senior Rellectlc)n Groupl Food, leugha & good convarutlonl Deadline: Oc1 7 Ill C.S.C. 
CHICAGO CUBS VS. PITTSBURGH PIRATES SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2ND TIX AND TRANS $15 ALL STUDENDS WELCOME BUSES LEAVE 10 A.M. ON SALE HALL LOBBIES AT SMC OR CALL CAROL AT 284-5011 SPONSORED BY SMC JUNIOR CLASS 
DO YOU UKE JAZZ? DO YOU LIKE REGGAE? Then you'll lava IIRIAM MAEKBA & HUOH MASEKELA In con­cert Sundlly, Oc1. llllllpm In Stepen C.ntar. 239-7442 & 284-4626. 
FITZ-·Hope yoo've recovered from your Cape Cod brawl. Thanks lor th alaughai­-M. 
................................................................ 
WHY PAY S25 TO 135 AT CARNEOIA HALL7 See MIRIAM MAKEBA I HUOH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oc1. II Ill lpm In Stepen Center lor ONLY 14 to 1101 239-7442 & 284-4626 
GUNKY, YOU ARE THE LOVE OF MY LIFE: MY LAUGHTER ... MY JOY... MY PROMISE OF ETERNAL HAPPI­NESS. LET'S HAVE A FANTASTIC WEEKEND. LOVE ALWAYS, ME 
;;-e:y·····;·.;a·--··;;A'Fii:ii:viii·--··,:y-ii--···aeEN 
"SCOPING" YOU WANNA HORSE AROUND? 
cA'iliol'ics·--·iN'····aA'o.....s:rA'NDiN·a 

NOON, SATURDAY SOUTH QUAD CATliOLICS IN BAD STANDINO 
Nii:.ei:i'"'Fiioe"'l-o...M:.\ss.A:c'Husrns 
FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY,ORIVE. CALL ALLAN X4296 
i:i'Ni:v··-;..--HuNoi:iii'ii''iiuci<s:--wH.A:r''.A: 
DEALt 
ALMOST AS MUCH AS A FONDUE MEAL. SENT YOU COOKIES FED EXPRESS, NOW YOU HAVE A BIG FAT MESS! WHAT'LL HAPPEN? WAIT AND SEE. CAUSE IN ONE MORE DAY, THEN COMES KELLVI DON'T FORGET-BE HAPPYIII 
-w-e--f..Fiii..i<N'on:·<3RowiNCi..iiP'ii:·--··· 
-wE·.a:Fie.i<Non'G.FiowiNa··uPii:·a~; 
SYR llx BY MONDAY! 
y~~----,ik~d···u;~;;;···-~~---;;-~~j'''Si;;;;;~:; 
Oraceland World Tour; You'll love them in parson! Mlr1am Makaba 1 Hugh Ma-le In Concert Sundlly, Oc1. g at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239·7442 & 284-<4626 
...............oiv·ii-Mii:..A''B'iie'AK'............... 
Ohio University awa"sllll Deaperalely need a ride to O.U. -Athens, Ohio lor Oct. break. Can leave ANYTIME.--$$$ no object. Please call 
Chris x2773 
Sammy the Sand Brethen has hie Stan­lord TX but Drew needs two Miami GAa. 288-6207 have BIG $$$$ 
....................................... 
Steve--1 miss you. Still friends? Laura 
MATT,GINA & GANG Welcome to Notre Dame Carrie 
................................................................ 
SMC FALL FEST OCT 6 
........................,....................................... 
SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. 4:30-6:15 PIC­NIC FOR ALL (NO GET COXE'S IN DINING HALLS) 7 AND 9 SHE'S HAVING A BABY CARROLL AUD. $1 ADMISSION 9-1 FALL FEST GARDENS $1 ADMISSION, 50c. BEVERAGE (21 1.0.) 
s·i.1·c-;;:.A:i:i:-;;:iisl-ocl-·_--6...................... 
................................................................ OAMBY,S B'S BACKI OAMBY'S HACKl OAMBY'S BACKI WELCOME BACK-WE JUST WISH YOU WERE STAYING! HAPPY 21ST BITRTHDAY­HOPE IrS KILLER! EVEN THOUGH YOU THINK YOU'RE A LmLE S.C. FRAT BOY NOW, YOU'RE STILL A DOMER AT HEART! WE LOVE YOU SWEET ASS! XXOO-GILDA AND THE WEEZ P.S. IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO TRANSFER BACK! 
................................................................ 
JENNIE TRANELI HAPPY BIRTHDAYII You're the greatesll Love. Betsy 
....................................................... 
The basketball player from Montana will be 18 on Sun. Please wish JENNIE TRANEL a Happy Birthday! 
................................................................ 
THIS SATURDAY CHECK OUT 
THE NATIVE AMERICAN CONCES­
SION STAND IN FRONT OF FS O'SHAG 
-DARE TO BE DIFFERENT -BE CUL­
TURALLY DIVERSEIREMEMBER: 
SATURDAY..O'SHAG..TEEPEE..BE 
THERE I 
FAC FAC FAC ATTENTION ALL FAC MEMBERS The Friday Altamoon Club wtll be meeting again tonight Ill 5 p.m. PleaM plan on -ndlng. II you r..t you are drauad too caaually, don't worry. We'll have "my Ilea" waiting lor you. Hey, heyl 
JEN, JENN, JILL and RACHEL: 
Welc:orne beckl lt'a been lonely 
around here without you guye to aet 
me atralght. ClndySteln haan't raaur­
laced In qulta aome time. You'll hava 
to help me raaurrect her. Hava a grut 
weekend and come back aoon. I'll be 
here to avenge the MIAMI lou from 
our lncredllle tr1p laat y.ar. Ooonlh 
and Yahoo Herdt 
The One You Left Behind 
See CLASS, page 17 


-------~-~~--~----~---­
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
Lacrosse holds alumni game 
IJy PETE LaFLEUR but also for families from the Olmstead and defensemen Midwest who aren't that Doug Spencer and O'Connor.
Sports Writer 

familiar with lacrosse." Each was a starter last season, 
While the majority of the Although the official NCAA and Olmstead is Notre Dame's 
Notre Dame student body will lacrosse season is in the spring, fifth all-time leading scorer. 
be scattered across Green the Irish are practicing in the The alumni team, mean­
Field in a tailgating frenzy to­fall more intensely than ever while, will be a roll call of cur­
morrow, the Irish lacrosse under the leadership of new rent lawyers, coaches and 
team will be "imbibed" in its head coach Kevin Corrigan, businessmen whose Irish roots 
own event--the 19th annual son of former Notre Dame ath­range from the days of the 
alumni game. letic director Gene Corrigan. team's inception as a club sport 
The traditional game, a clash The alumni game will serve as in 1964 to its eight years as a 
between Irish stars of the past a warm-up for the biggest varsity team during the 1980's 
and present, begins at 1 p.m. game in the program's history 
on Cartier Field, located east on Oct. 28, when the Irish will Some of the recent graduates 
of Green Field behind the Joyce host Johns Hopkins University, expected to return include at 
ACC. "We have been working perennially one of the nation's least six former captains: Art 
hard for a month," said tri­top teams. Brady and John McNicholas 
captain Kevin O'Connor. "It The current Irish squad will ('88), Wally Stack ('87), Tom 
(the game) should be a great be led by its three senior tri­Grote ('86), Justin Shea ('85), 
time, not just for the students, captains, attackman John and Dan Pace ('83). 
least shift the blame to some best to take the good will out of of the players, although the au­the Games. His criticism of 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch
thor of this column wouldn't Portland for helping Sabonis in 
continued from page 20 John Olmstead and the rest of the Notre Dame lacrosse team will
join you in your forgiveness. his rehabilitation showed no 
play in Its alumni game tomorrow afternoon. The Irish face
You might call the United Nobody is unbeatable, and a trace of class. 
States Olympic basketball group of America's top college Forget the promotion of in­national power Johns Hopkins later this fall. team's trip to Seoul a success and former college basketball ternational sport and good will because the squad that was players is no exception. In their between the United States and 
I FOODSHARE

coached by John Thompson defense, the opposition played the Soviet Union. John 
I FOODSHARE

somehow managed to resist well. Thompson would rather play a provoking a brawl. But Thompson dug enough short-handed squad than have 
I =ggg~~:=~ GENERAL
Compared to Thompson's graves for himself at these a chance to beat the best 
1 FOODSHARE

Georgetown crew, that's quite Olympics. He kept his team in players in the Soviet Union. 
FOODSHARE

a feat. The U.S. suffered its virtual seclusion and limited Sabonis scored 13 points and 
t FOODSHARE

second loss in 87 games in their social activities, while grabbed 13 rebounds in the So­
WHEN: SUNDAY, OCT. 2 3:00PM
I FOODSHARE

Olympic history, but they even the Soviet lockerroom viet semifinal victory over the 
WHERE: MONTGOMERY THEATRE
• FOODSHARE

didn't get in a fight, so you've was more available to the press Americans. 
FOODSHARE LAFORTUNE
got to hand it to them--right than that of the United States. 
t FOODSHARE WHO: ALL MEMBERS AND ANYONE
along with that bronze medal. Taking the Games seriously is Soviet coach Alexandre 
I FOODSHARE INTERESTED IN JOINING.
But Thompson could not essential, but taking the fun out Gomelski said after hearing 
1 FOODSHARE

leave Seoul without throwing a of the Olympics is ridiculous. Thompson's comment that the 
• FOODSHARE

few verbal fisticuffs at some­And while past U.S. teams American coach is "a great 
' FOODSHARE I 
one, so a few weeks ago he had fun running all over even basketball coach, but he is not hurled some at the Portland the most highly-touted interna-a foreign minister." ~ FOODSHARE VERY IMPORTANT t 
~~~~E ~ 
Trail Blazers' NBA franchise. tional opponents, Thompson's Thompson's performance at 
~ FOODSHARE ~
Thompson publicly criticized bunch had long faces and heavy the Olympics proved the Soviet the Blazers for helping 7-foot, feet from the moment they coach at least half right. 
--------------------~ 
3-inch Soviet center Arvidas stepped on the floor against the 
Sabonis, who belongs to Soviets. Something was 
Portland if allowed to play in missing--enthusiasm. 
the NBA, with his rehabilita­But Thompson not 
tion of a torn Achilles tendon. managed to take the fun out of 
You might want to forgive the Olympics for the American 
Thompson for the loss, or at basketball team, he also did his 
SANDI PATTI 


AT SAINT MARY•s SNACK BAR 
REE DELIVERY on Saint Mary's Campus 
IN CONCERT 
PIZZA WEEK
1988-1989 WORLD TOUR 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 7:30PM 
October 2nd -7th
NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. ALL SEATS RESERVED: $11.50 AND 
$9.50 
October 2nd -Two dollars off any order between 7 and 1 0 pm. TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY, October 3rd -One FREE topping. October 4th -Two liters FREE Coke with any pizza purchase 
SEPTEMBER 26 
October 5th -Accepting any area: pizza coupon
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE J.A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, ALL TICKET MASTER LOCATIONS, October 6th -Get a coupon for a FREE pizza when you order one 
BETHEL BOOKSTORE (ELKHART AND between 7 and 10 pm. MISHAWAKA), CHRISTIAN LIGHT (NAPANEE), October 7th -Order a pizza and get a 2nd for HALF price. BAKER'S BOOKSTORE (ST. JOSEPH, Ml), WORD 
OF LIFE (MICHIGAN CITY) AND CHRISTIAN CENTER (SOUTH BEND). CHARGE BY PHONE: 1-800-284-3030 
Pizza avalable nightly from 6 -11 pm.
$1.00 OFF FOR GROUPS OF 20 OR MORE THROUGH BOX OFFICE ONLY PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS AND NEW COVENANT PRODUCTIONS 
284·5537 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 
The Observer 

•
It's NO vs. SMC 1n soccer 
Michiana supremacy is on the line today at .Krause 

By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
Two soccer teams square off at 5 p.m. this afternoon at Moose Krause Stadium for U.S. 31 bragging rights. 
For the first time in recent years, varsity sports teams from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's meet, this time in wo­men's soccer action. In the past few years, these teams have played home-and-home series while Notre Dame was at the club level. 
Almost half of the Irish players came from the club team, but they say that what happened in the past has no bearing on what will happen on the field today. 
"It's not a Notre Dame-Saint Mary'ssocialrivalry,it'sasoc­cer match," emphasized Irish senior midfielder Kathleen Bir­mingham. "We're a very dif­ferent team from the club team. The strategy we'll use against them comes from other 
games  we've  played  this  
season,  not  from  past  
seasons."  

Two very different styles of play will clash on the field--the ball control passing game of Saint Mary's and the long-ball, tight marking style of Notre Dame. 
The Irish enter the game with a 7-2 record and a string of five consecutive shutout wins. Their last win came on the road Tuesday when they beat Chicago 2-0. 
Lately, the Irish have had an easy time against weaker op­ponents, outshooting Chicago, St. Joseph's (Ind.) and Adrian by an amazing 82-3 total, but 
,-·-·-;~:;;~~~7o:~;~;~;;~;;--, 
I  W-e-e-e know Only at Beyond the Sea Crab House  I J  
1 1  also try Maryland Blue Crabs, Spiced Shrimp, Mussels Marinara plus much much more  I1  
I I1 J  Beyond The Sea Crab House 16036 Red Arrow Highway Union Pier, Michigan (616)469-o2oo HoursTues-Thurs5-10pm Fri.5-11pm Sat.&Sun3-11pm  II II J  

'-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!.~---' 
DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND AMERICAN DISHES 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS 

• 
FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION 

• 
HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE 


DINING ·VEGETARIAN MENU 
6329 University Commons HOURS Man Thurs 11 AM 9 (Across From University Park Mall) Friday II AM 10 PM South Bend, IN 46635 Saturd"Y 1? NoonlO PM 
I or a,·;ert•atiom & Carry-Out Ctd/: 
272-6702 
head coach Dennis Grace ex­pects that to change today. 
"Saint Mary's has a fantastic team," he said. "We work hard against· both the good and the bad teams. In that respect this game is like playing anybody­-we won't be doing anything spe­cial. We just have to play our game." 
The Belles just suffered their first loss of the season W ednes­day, a 1-0 overtime loss to Wis­consin, but Tom Van Meter's squad has several impressive shutouts against Purdue 3-0 and Illinois-Chicago 4-0. 
For this game, Grace likely will start freshman Kelly McCrystal in goal. Leading scorer Susie Zilvitis, Joy Sisolak and Mimi Suba high­light the Irish offense, K.T. Sul­livan leads from her midfield position, and Molly Lennon anchors the defense. 
IRISH ITEM --Irish assistant coach Neil Schmidt celebrated his birthday Thursday. 
STEAKS 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 
page 15 

New system planned for hoops ticket sales 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
An appealing home 
schedule has led the Notre 
Dame ticket office to set a 
new procedure for obtaining 
season basketball tickets. 
Beginning Monday, Oct. 3, 
and running for two weeks, 
students will be required to 
fill out an application to buy 
season tickets at Gate 10 of 
the Joyce ACC between 9 
a.m. and 5 p.m. At this time a deposit of at least slightly more than half the ticket price will be due. 
The 1988-89 season tickets, good for all17 home basket­ball games, are priced $85 for lower arena seating and $68 for bleachers. A deposit of $45 for lower arena seats or $40 for bleachers is re­quired during the applica­tion period. There was no in­crease in the ticket price per game. 
The actual ticket distribu­tion will not happen until Oct. 31, at which time the balance will be due. Other­wise the regular distribution-by -class policy holds. 
Ticket manager Bubba Cunningham said that the new application procedure is designed to prevent a shortage of student tickets, something which did occur 
HAPPY 
J3IQTHDAY KEQQIE ANN H 
Love From Mom, Dad, Kathleen, Colleen and Laura Ashley 
FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, C.S.C. "IS THERE LIFE BEYOND ARTS AND LETTERS? THE ADVANTAGES OF MAJORING IN A USELESS DISCIPLINE" 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1988 7:30P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 
for the 1985-86 basketball season. 
"Unlike football, we are not required to provide a season basketball ticket to every student who wants one," said Cunningham. "It would be easier for us just to set a limit. But the home schedule is so good this year that we feel there will be a greater demand for tickets. We want to make sure we know what that demand is before we allocate the tick­ets." 
For the 1985-86 season nearly 200 freshmen were turned away and approxi­mately 200 more were forced to buy tickets separate from the student section when 4,450 tickets were sold to stu­dents. 
As in past years, Saint Mary's students are limited to 200 season tickets. There is no limit on Notre Dame students now because of the application procedure. 
Cunningham noted that the same procedure cannot be followed for selling foot­ball season tickets. The deadline for applications from alumni and the general public is June 20, so the al­lotments must be deter­mined well before the stu­dent ticket sale. 
Calumet tips SMC v-ball 
By ELIZABETH 
VANDERSARL 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team suffered a discouraging loss to Purdue-Calumet in a grueling four-game match Wednesday night. 
Mter winning the first game 15-13, the Belles came up short in the following three. In the end, the score stood at a dis­couraging 12-15, 10-15, and 12­15. 
"Right now we're in an ob­vious slump and it's going to take 110 percent from everyone to pull this team together and turn things around," said senior captain Tami Suth. "We have a lot of potential and tal­ent. With every team member as a leader working as a team we can make a change." 
Junior Patti Knoebal agreed that the team will rebound from Wednesday's showing. 
"This is a temporary setback and we're slowly working our way back up," said Knoebal. "We gave a strong showing." 
The Belles will have a chance to reverse their setback on Tuesday against Grace Col­lege. 
3300 L.W.W. (U.S. 20) OPEN 24 HAS. 
LOW daily, weekly, group & student rates available. 
All modem, clean units, FREE cable, phone and coffee 

I I iI 
~ 
I 
L_ t_ 
~--~ ---~-~-~--~-~--~­
page 16 The Observer Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 
Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, and the golden glory of Notre Dame. .. 
"In this trea.\ury uf rnemurabilia, 
editors Robert Quakenbush and Mike Bynum have comprised an iw hrc ·;sive and informative 
keepsake about an American heru, a legend who lives on in the hearts of many." 
-~OUTH REND TRIRUNE 
...on sale now at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Coming soon from 
October Football Corp. 
Many Autumns Ago: The Frank Leahy Era at Boston Colle~ and Notre Dame. 
,. ,_,-'I ,';" •' . ./' .. •' ~ I~ •• I 
----........ ~· 4 4 •• ~'~ ~)t·~··
~---.~------~~------~----------------..~~----------------------~-----------------------­
• • ~ -I, ~ . , :I l; If I I I I (It' r r t ,· '~ r I''';:",."',. ,.t",.,.~.,.,.,~,.~"',.,,., ..,,~ ... 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 The Observer page 17 
Olympic roundup 
Red Sox clinch tie 
Joyners dominating Games 
Associated Press Cleveland. Boston is 8-2 
CLEVELAND -The Bos­ton Red Sox clinched a tie for the American League East championship Thursday night, routing the Cleveland Indians 12-0 on Mike Boddicker's three-hit pitching and Ellis Burks' hit­ting. 
The Red Sox, ending a three-game losing streak, can win their second division title in three seasons Friday night when Roger Clemens faces the Indians. Clemens is 9-0 lifetime against Cleveland. 
Boston's victory eliminated Detroit from the race. New York and Mil­waukee can tie only if they win all of their remaining games while the Red Sox lose their final three in 
against the Indians this 
season. 
Boddicker, 13-15 overall 
but 7-3 since joining the Red 
Sox on July 29, retired the 
first 16 batters. 
Burks hit a three-run double that capped a five­run third inning. He had an RBI single during a seven­run seventh. 
The loser was Rod Nic­hols, 1-7. 
Yanks 5, Orioles 1 
BALTIMORE -Ken Phelps and Don Mattingly hit home runs as the New York Yankees kept alive their slim hopes in the American League East by beating the Baltimore Orioles 5-1 Thursday night. 

Regular Menu 
.Ja Open at 4:00 P.M. v~ Friday and Saturday c,c-11 
.co,,. 'l.~b.­
0~ 0/ I \\0(\'i>he River -Resef'l0 
All the Best to our Dancin• Dixie I 
We LuvYal 

PART-TIME CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS STUDENTS WITH OVERSEAS EXPERIENCE EARN MONEY NOW WHILE CONTINUING YOUR STUDIES! 
OUR CLIENTS ARE CURRENTLY SEEKING QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS WITH FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA EXPERTISE, ESPECIALLY FOR ASIAN, AFRICAN AND LATIN AMERICAN MARKETS. MANY PART-TIME CONSULTING ANOOR RESEARCH ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE DURING SCHOOL YEAR. SOME FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE AFTER GRADUATION. FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED DEGREES WELCOMED. EXPERIENCE IN SCIENTIFIC AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FIELDS ESPECIALLY SOUGHT BY CLIENTS. 
FOR PROMPT CONSIDERATION PLEASE SEND RESUME AND PHONE NUMBER TO: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION P.O. BOX A-3629 CHICAGO, IL 60690 
OUR CLIENTS PAY ALL FEES. THERE IS NO COST TO APPLICANTS. 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea -The high-flying U.S. men's volley­ball team moved within one victory of another gold medal Friday at the Summer Olym­pics, where Flo Jo and Jackie are gold medalists-in-law again. 
The undefeated U.S. men, led by the spiking and blocking of Bob Ctvrtlik, scored an easy 15­3, 15-5, 15-11 victory over Brazil in a rematch of the gold-medal volleyball game four years ago in Los Angeles. 
The U.S. men will meet either the Soviet Union or Ar­gentina in the final Sunday af­ternoon. 
On Thursday, Florence Grif­fith Joyner fulfilled predictions of "something unbelievable," breaking the 200-meter world record twice in two hours. 
"Two world records, two gold medals and I'm not finished," Flo Jo said. 
She and record-smashing sister-in-law Jackie Joyner Kersee highlighted a day at the Games that belonged to the wo­men: the U.S. team won the basketball gold medal that the men couldn't, and yet another tennis title was left to be decided by Steffi Graf and Gabriela Sabatini. 
The United States' can-do 
boxers, meanwhile, had 
Americans wondering if this 
could be another Montreal. 
This was called America's 
worst Olympic boxing team--no 
names, no flash, no chance. But 
U.S. boxers already are as­sured of eight medals, one more than they won in '76, and they'll be going for six golds this weekend, one more than Montreal. 
"Almost everybody said this team was not going to do well," Coach Ken Adams said. "We showed everyone up." 
Especially Riddick Bowe, the New York super heavyweight. He took two standing 8-counts and nearly ·didn't make it through the first round, but he stormed back for a unanimous decision over the Soviet Union's heavyweight champion. 
After 13 days of Games, the medal count looked like this: Soviet Union 95 total, 39 gold; East Germany 79 total, 31 gold, and the United States 61 total, 23 gold--and closing fast. 
America added one to its gold count in freestyle wrestling when John Smith of Del City, Okla., outpointed Stephan Sarkissian of the Soviet Union 4-0 in the 136.5-pound division. 
At the track, it was a bad day for East German Heike Drechsler, beaten first in the 
Thank you St. Jude for prayers always answered. C.B.
Class 
R•t Reunion 88

continued from page 13 
Rat Reunion 88 Need Van Halen ticket. Call Tom Varnum 
Have a great day ...
X3267 PETE V., TOMM, H., PETE b., t.IJL..­

HEY BRIGIDIII 

P., DAVE D., BRIAN M., & MELUE V.­
They're playing our songI think "VIOl, VICI, VENI" (in that order) ... 

One IHd • Th'" Bodies... 

GOOD LUCK ON THE LSAT'SIIIIIIII You can ltnl•h It, can't you?l?l Your 
love, CHERYL 
Mu•lcal Buddy 
Jame• HEY GOOSE: HONK' 

Copies after five 
When you need copies afier hours, depend on Kinko's, the copy center. We're open late to serve you. 
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
18187 State Road 23 
271-0398 


SaturdayNight Worship & Praise A CHRISTIAN CONTEMPORARY WORSHIP SERVICE ON SATURDAY NIGHT 6:00PM Nursery Provided 
*Especially for University Students *Biblical Preaching *Social Interaction 
Bible Teacher-Marcus Warner Pastor of University Outreach 
7215 Grape Road
T~,. 

(booind Chi-Chi's) 
Granger, IN 277-4737 S.I!-MB~r-Rev. Russell Fish, Pastor 
~~.YJ~ 

long jump by Joyner-Kersee, whose brother AI is married to Griffith Joyner, then in the 200 by Flo Jo herself. In the process, Griffith Joyner also broke the 200 world record Drechsler shared with another East German, Marita Koch. 
"It was a tough day," Drechsler said. "I gave my best, but these two are very strong athletes." 
Griffith Joyner is the first American woman to hold a 200­meter record since Wilma Rudolph in 1960, and the old mark of 21.71 first was set by Koch nine years ago. 
Griffith Joyner, her long hair flowing behind her like the con­trails of a jet, first broke the record in the semifinals, run­ning 21.56. 
Then, in the final, she sped to a time of 21.34, lowering the mark for the second time in two hours, and adding the 200 to the 100 gold she won last Sunday. 
And she could get more, with two relays still on the schedule. 
"I know I can run much faster," she said. "I felt very relaxed. That's the key." 
Grace Jackson of Jamaica won the silver in 21.72, eight meters behind Griffith Joyner, and Drechsler was third in 
21.95. 

HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY MAURA "RUSTY" HOGANII 
-. 

You ooze lethargy. You make pots. You have lhe anention span of a walnut, But we love you lots. You're allergic to Mlchelob, You're london·bound, You're face always hurts In the morning, You're the biggest cheese around! WE LOVE YOUII YES, YOUIII 
i:iv··;;;;··A;;i;i;;;,~..i;;;;;~;·~~~;..i;;;~::r~ 
tiD Grace frosh,Rene and Tony,& es­pecially Sedlack and Kamradt.keep your paws ofl.THANXICOLIN 
ii:A:Nov··a:··:";;;;·~~~··!h-;;;;g·t,i··;~~·:;,-;;~·,d 
never get another personal! Well I just had to prove you WRONG I ·JT 
................................................................ 
HAPPY 21 TO MR. QUINN 25 YRS. AND YOU'll BE OUR AGE 
THE OLDER WOMEN 

Dear MIKE THE SNAKE, You are such a snake II Such a snake you are. Why are you such a snake? Because you tickle me, hit me, and put 
Iunny things In my Kool·aldl SNAKE, SNAKE, SNAKE, SNAKEII LOVE, DIANA 
In the book of Genesis they forgot to mention that God'e btrthd•y Ia Ocl I Call 1409 and wish Glrdy a happy Birdy 
ATIENTION All SOPHOMORES Today Is the last day to buy your FORMAL TICKETSIII On sale today 3-5, LaFortune 
SOX WILL CHOKE. BREWERS WILL PREVAIL. 
BRAD: DUKAKIS FOR PRESIDENT! HAPPY DREAMS I 
JEN 
FEZ: 

Roses are Red Morrissey men are studs Have an awesome B·Day And don't forget to make It to the game I bet you thought that last line would have rllymed, but I fooled you. 
.. 

Happy Big 201 ONLY ONE AWAY FROM BEING LEGAL but that has never stopped you In the past. 
love, Christy B (SO) 

ENGINEERING 
_,..

JOBS Don't send blind resumes! Use our weekly listing of the best opportunities nation-wide. $14/12 issues. JOBNET. POB 12817, LAKE PARK, FL 33403-0817. SPECIFY YOUR MAJOR: ME, CE, OREE. 

~
~~----------------=---------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
page 18 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 

cer America). "We can't afford to look forward to Sunday." 
Obviously, the Irish could lose in tonight's 7:30 game at Moose Krause Stadium, but this talented Notre Dame team should take care of the Titans early. Though Grace won't con­cede a thing, the Irish will cer­tainly look to tune up for the Badgers of Wisconsin with strong defense and execution. 
Wisconsin poses a serious threat to the Irish, as the Badgers have three important ingredients: talent, the home field and an excellent motive. 
First, the Badgers have the people to compete with the Irish. At 7-1-1, Wisconsin is off to its best start in eight years. and its only loss this year is to Evansville, the second-ranked team in the Great Lakes Region. 
IH 
continued from page 20 

run out the clock and hold on to the victory. 
Walsh 14, Badin 0: Badin co­ach Brian Miller credited Walsh's defense with Wednes­day night's victory. Walsh de­fensive captain Corine Glavin was extremely pleased with the defense's play, holding Badin to one first down the entire game. The offensive attack once again was led by quartreback Amy Farabaugh, who connected for touchdown passes of 25 and 30 yards to freshman tight end Elizabeth Toohey. 
Walsh, unsuccessful in three conversion attempts in its last game, coverted one of two at­tempts Wednesday. Toohey was again in on the scoring, running in a pitch from the left side. Both Glavin and Mil­ler praised the efforts of their respective defenses. 
"We knocked down a couple of passes that could have resulted in touchdowns," remarked Glavin. 
While Miller was happy with his defense, he was less than enthused with the play of his offense in their second straight loss. 
Women's interhall action continues Sunday as 10 teams take the field. 
PW (2-Q) vs Farley (2-Q): One of the most important games of the day. As the season ap­proaches the midway point each team is looking ahead to a possible league champion­ship and this game could have 
a heavy bearing. Farley's Karen Lynch is ready for what is sure to be a "tough match­up." 
Siegfried (1-1) vs Walsh (2-1): 
Each team is looking to keep a win streak alive, but Walsh's Corine Glavin keeps every­thing in perspective. 
"We're hoping for a third vic­tory, but most of all we want a challenging game, and we want to have a lot of fun," said 
....._ Glavin. This looks to be a hard-fought battle as the defenses of each team are on top of their game. Lewis {2-Q) vs Badin (D-2): As one of only three undefeated teams, Lewis Lewis hopes to stay on top of the league with a win against Badin. But as team member Debbie Charles­worth noted, "We take no team lightly. We've been practicing 
The Observer 

Next, Wisconsin will be playing on it.s friendly home 
Irish 

• 20 Action-Packed Issues a Year 
• Insightful Editorials Now entering
• Coaching Features 
• Football Recruiting our 8th year! 
• 
Player Profiles 

• 
Game Reports 


• Game Previews 
Notre Dame Football 
• NO History 

at its best -weekly
• Spring Reports 

during the football
• Basketball 

• NO Sports season and monthly 
during the off­season for just $29.95 -a full 25%
Blue & Gold Illustrated 
120 W. LaS.Ue, Suite 601 • South Bend, IN 46601 • (219) 289-6332 D Visa D Check Enclosed D Bill Me 
off the newsstand 
D If you arc a current subscriber. please check this box. OBS 
priceI 
EXP. DATE 

Blue & Gold Illustrated offers an unconditional money back guarantee 
Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The pep rally for the Notre Dame-Stanford game will be held at 7 p.m. tonight on Stepan courts. -The Observer 
Leon Hart will be signing autographs from 2-4 p.m. Saturday afternoon in the concourse of the Joyce ACC. The former Irish Reisman Trophy winner is featured on the cover of this week's football program, and posters featuring a replica of this cover will be on sale for $7 apiece. -The Observer 
A horseback riding trip is being sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics for Sunday, Oct. 2. Trail rides cost $10, and transportation will be provided. Buses will leave the library circle at 11 a.m., 12:35 p.m. and 2: 10 p.m. each riding session lasting one hour. Limited spaces are avail­able, and one must register and pay in advance at the NVA office. The deadline for registering is Sept. 30. -The Observer 
Stepan Court time requests now are being taken to reserve a court for your halVorganization. Please pick up an application in the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFor­tune. The deadline for applying is today. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
IllALUMNI====; 
~!:CLUB 


TilIf#tt iflfll ITt rJrnO[[)ffi'L? 
OP£;1/FRI 9.·00-2.·00 
ti1T PRE-411#£: 2.·30-5.·30 P()ff~11i!E: t/2!10tfR 11/TER 
~11i!E't eoA!eLtftiOAI 

The Helsman Trophy of Notre Dame Football Coverage 
grass. While Grace feels that his team is not hurt by the foreign surroundings, there's no telling the aid the Badgers could receive from a loud crowd and a good night's sleep. 
The most important in­gredient in the equation, one which should make for an ex­tremely intense game, is the motivation. 
Ranked third and fourth respectively in the Great Lakes Region, both Notre Dame and Wisconsin realize that this game could be the difference between a post-seasson invita­tion and an early rest. 
"We're third," said Grace, peering at the newest Regional rankings in his hands, "and they're fourth. Only three teams will be invited (to the NCAA's). This is a helluva op­portunity for them to move up." 
hard all week, trying to refine 
our game. In no way do we see 
Badin as an easy win." 
Lyons (1-1) vs PE (2-1): After 
failing to score on numerous at­
tempts against Siegfried, 
Lyons is looking to get back on 
the winning track. 
PE's Colleen O'Connor antic­ipates a challenging game, but is confident in her team. "We've improved in every game," remarked O'Connor, 
continued from page 20 

to control net play offensively and defensively. 
Although dropping from the pre-season top-20 poll after losing to Indiana and Kentucky and falling to 0-2, the Broncos are always a formidable foe. Last year Western Michigan was true to its form, defeating Notre Dame in three games, 15­4, 15-13 and 15-9. 
The Broncos have dominated the Mid-American Conference, winning 83 consecutive matches since its loss to Ball State on Oct. 5, 1982, and have grown accustomed to winning. 
"They are always a good team," said Lambert. "I'm ready for a real battle Satur­day. They are consistently ranked and no matter how many players they lose each year, they always seem to reload and keep winning." 
and she is sure that will con­tinue Sunday. 
Howard (0-1) vs Knott (0-3): 
Each team looks to gain its first victory in this match up of win­less teams. Howard looked im­pressive in the first half of its opener, but was shut out in the second half. Expansion squad Knott still is searching for the first win in the history of its fledgling franchise. It will have to happen soon if Knott has any hopes of salvaging the season. 
Make your Notre Dame weekend 
a complete treat with dinner at 

NOTRE DAME 
Miller's Country House. See us s1zzle and sear the freshest seafood, steaks and chops over 
AFTER 
an open charcoal grill. Try our Indonesian Satay, Blackened 

THE 
Fish, or the incredible rack of lamb. Don't miss the famous 

HOTTEST 
flourless chocolate cake and our own ice creams made with fresh 

GAME 
fruits. Enjoy the informal

AROUND 

atmosphere of a country saloon in our grill room or delight in the woodland view from the garden room. Fabulous food. great drinks and a smas~ing decor. 

CO~HOUSE 
616-469-5950 
On Route 12 in Union Pier, MI!Just 30 minutes from South Bend 


Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
Noon to 1 p.m. Lecture, "Immigration Reform and Edu­cation: The Changing Legal Status of Students in the United States," by Professor Michael Olivas, 220 Law School Courtroom. 
12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Con­cerns, "The Cultural Mosaic of America Catholicism, 124 C.S.C. Soup and bread are one dollar. 
3:30 Philosophy lecture, "Freedom and Self­Realization," Library Lounge. 
7:30 and 9:45 Film, "Full Metal Jacket," Annenberg Auditorium. 
SATURDAY 

7:30 to 8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross House. 
8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Law School Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium. 
9:00 to 10:00 First Saturday Holy Hour of Reparation to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Sacred Heart Crypt. 
9:30 Alcoholics Anonymous closed meeting in the multi­purpose room of the C.S.C. 
3:00 Women's Cross Country, National Catholic Meet, Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
4:00 Men's Cross Country National Catholic meet at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
BBQ Beef on a Bun  Tomato Meat Loaf  
Fried Fish Platter  Pizza Deluxe  
Pork Loin  Apple Cheese  
Broccoli  and  Cheese  Deli Bar  
Potatoes  

COMICS 
Bloom County 
The Mludv~ l!llaz.Mc.._.,p 
Thanks a load to every­one who voted for me. 

ACROSS 25 Kin of 48 "My country, duikerboks -of
I Hines and 28 Broadway thee"Siepi 
6 Prospera's 29 Ferreror 50 "LeCoq-"servant Brooks
II Essential parts 51 Senor's love 
12 Badinage 30 Thin rope 53 Casino 
14 A 1947 31 Check employeemusical 33 Menotti work 
55 Gershwin
17 Passion, in 35 Objets d'art song: 1925Bath 
38 Tyson's 58 Mother who 18 Abhor "kingdom" can be cruel 19 Slangy 39 Explorer 59 Describing a negattve Johnson winter glaze 20 A day in Livy's 42 Unfold

life 60 Like most TV 
43 Peasant

21 Sometimes it shows 
footwear

flies 61 Sea swallows 
22 Bis 45EI-, 24 Character in Spanish hero 
DOWN
"Charley's 46 James and Aunt" Kett 
I "So what!" 2 Friend of D'Artagnan ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 "Elephant .. 
J 

Boy' star 4 Insult 5 Believer: 
Suffix 6 On the plane 15 Creature 32 Rag products 40 Tough; firm 7 Carryon painted on 33 Singer Turner 41 Decorate 
Indian 44 Made amends
8 Mosaic piece, 34 "Va~.a Con
artifacts 47 Postponed
e.g. 

16 Word with suit bedttme
9 Biblical verb 35 Some of the 
or socks 49 Burdened
ending West Pointers 
21 Hayseed's 52 Actress
10 Kind of verse 36 In Man­
milieu Winningham
11 Manly hattan's
23 Cordial 53 Robert or
residential
13 Responds to a 25 Reverberate Elizabeth
section

stimulus 26 Fine-grained, 54 Pitcher 
14 "Adam/-" fertile loam 37 Go back 56 Greek letter (verse re 27 Patrick, for 39 Spotted 57 U.S. naval microbes) one felines vessel 
• 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



CHECK OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEK: 
MOVIE THIS WEEKEND:  All Times  
8:00 pm and 10:15 pm  
Cushing Auditorium  
Admission $2.00  
•  
-·  

~-~---------­
I.-­
Sports
~ page 20 Weekend Edition, September 30-0ctober 2, 1988 
ND to host Butler, W. Mich. 
Volleyball team attempts to continue winning streak 

By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 

This could be the weekend that the Notre Dame women's volleyball team turns the cor­ner. 
The Irish, who host Butler tonight and Western Michigan Saturday afternoon, will try to maintain their momentum from two consecutive home victories and defeat these two long-standing rivals. 
Butler, now 11-2 after win­ning the DePaul Invitational and most recently, its own tournament, is riding a four­match winning streak and will try to end Notre Dame's string of wins at two. 
The Irish have a 5-4 series record against the Bulldogs, whose two losses have come at 
P.E. trips Knott in lnterhall play 
By MARK SLOAN Sports Writer 

Knott's complacency with less than a minute remaining in the first half was the differ­ence in its 12-8 loss to Pasquerilla East. 
The PE-Knott battle was one of two showdowns on the wo­men's Interhall football circuit Wednesday. Walsh shut out Badin 14-0 in the only other con­test. 
As the clock neared zero in the first half, PE's Rachel 
Crossin took a pass from Col-verted the two point conversion 
Irish aim

Thompson's actions 
for sweep

very unbronzeworthy 
By TIM SULLIVAN You might call the United States Olympic basketball 
Sports Writer team's trip to Seoul a success because the squad that was 
Dennis Grace is taking noth­coached by John Thompson somehow managed to resist ing for granted. 
provoking a brawl. 

The Notre Dame men's soc­cer coach has his Irish squad, 
Marty 

9-0-1, playing some of its best soccer of the season heading into tonight's game against 1-6 Detroit, yet he refuses to look 
Strasen 
Sports Editor 

ahead to Sunday's away game against a tough Wisconsin Compared to Thompson's Georgetown crew, that's quite 
team. a feat. The U.S. suffered its second loss in 87 games in 
"These are the ones that Olympic history, but they didn't get in a fight, so you've 
scare me,"said Grace of the got to hand it to them--right along with that bronze medal. 
Detroit game, despite the fact But Thompson could not leave Seoul without throwing 
that the Irish have just attained a few verbal fisticuffs at someone, so a few weeks ago he 
only their second national hurled some at the Portland Trail Blazers' NBA franchise. 
ranking in history (20th in the ISAA coach's poll, 18th in Soc-
see THOMPSON, page 14 see SOCCER, page 18 

leen O'Connor to the endzone for an 8-6lead. Neither offense for a 45-yard scoring play and was able to execute the a 6-0 halftime lead. O'Connor remainder of the game. intercepted a Knott pass to set up the scoring drive. O'Connor intercepted an­
"Overall it was a good other Knott pass and returned game," remarked Knott cap­it for a touchdown. Knott's tain Jacquie Cahoun. "We just defense stopped PE's second never thought they could take conversion attempt, making the ball that far, so quickly. If the score 12-8. As Knott it weren't for that we could threatened in the last five have won." minutes, PE's strong defensive 
Knott, 0-3, responded toPE's secondary ended any hopes of score by going ahead early in a comeback. A Julie Baron in­the second half on a 40 yard terception allowed PE, 2-1, to pass to Ann Buff. Knott con­
see IH, page 18 

the hands of Michigan and Ball Green (who upset the Irish ear­State, and have won the lier this season)." matchup in the past two years. Notre Dame will face an­Last year Notre Dame coasted other challenge Saturday after­by Butler in three games, noon when it takes on Western beating them 15-4, 15-10 and 15-Michigan--a team they have 
1. yet to beat in their four-match 
Notre Dame will have to con-series history. tend with the net play of seniors Western Michigan is led by Jill Taylor and Jill Spurgeon junior middle blocker G~il this year against Butler. Church, who led the team m Taylor, an outside hitter, led blocks and bitt ~g with a .300 the team in kills and digs last average on 278 ktlls last year. season and Spurgeon, a middle blocker, led the Bulldogs in The Broncos lost four total blocks. starters from last season's 28-6 
team, but Church and fellow 
"It's going to be a tough middle blocker Mei Zhang, a match," said Irish head coach native of Beijing, China who Art Lambert. "They always played on the Chinese Junior get up for us. Notre Dame's one National team before coming of the biggest games on their to Western Michigan, will try schedule and I think they're a 
see IRISH, page 18
better team than Bowling 

AP Photo 

Florence Grlfflth-Joyner, here covering her face after receiving her gold medal for the 200-meter run, has teamed with sister-In-law Jackie Joyner-Kersee to produce a golden family reunion in Seoul. Grlfflth-Joyner has won golds in the 100 and 200, while Joyner­Kersee took gold medals In the heptathlon and long jump. See page 17 for a complete Olympic update. 

1st down, a season to go 
Keep informed about the Notre Dame footbaU and basketball teams, students, faculty, and the changing campus. While you are away, let The Observer bring Notre Dame and Saint Mary's home to you. The Observer staff of more than 250 students will continue to cover all of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's news every day.
• 
Subscribe now and you'll be sure to stay informed : during Notre Dame's drive to the national championship ~~.. )and through Father Malloy's second year as president. 
To subscribe now, please send $35 for the entire school year or $20 for one semester to: The Observer P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, In 46556 






