~~~ ---------~------­
Don't get used to it
IACCENT: A Domer Dictionary A nice day is in store, with partly sunny skies and high 
of 80 degrees today and 
tomorrow. Lows in the low
IVIEWPOINT: Welcome to the freshmen 
60s tonight. 


The Class of 1992 
1,830 enter NO from largest pool of applicants yet 
By SARAH VOIGT Staff Reporter 
Superlatives abound for the Notre Dame class of 1992, which will have the most minority students, and will be the most selective of any class in the his­tory of the University. 
"This year the pool of 9,635 applicants for 1,830 spots was the University's big­gest ever. The number of applicants has increased twenty percent over last year's record breaking high,"said Kevin Rooney, director of undergradu­ate admissions. 
Associate Director of Admissions Pat Leonardo offered some explanations for the increased applicant pool. "The transfer of authority between Hesburgh and Malloy has attracted a lot of na­tional exposure," Leonardo said. 
Another reason may be the improved academic reputation that Notre Dame has earned recently. Leonardo also speculates that the admission office's more aggressive recruiting tactics have helped increase the number of ap­plicants. 
''Also, the national press surrounding the Reisman trophy winner and Notre Dame's improved sports facilities have not hurt admissions," Leonardo said. 
One recent trend is an increased percentage of minority applicants. The class of 1992 has the highest percentage of minority students ever at 13 percent. 
This year 25 or 30 more children of alumni were admitted than last year, pushing the "alumni kid" total percentage over last year's 25 percent, according to Rooney. 
Rooney said that the applicant pool has stayed steady the last few years at 64 percent men and 36 percent women. After two more freshmen classes at this ratio the population of women on campus will have changed from 27 to 
36 percent of the entire student popula­tion. This year's freshman class con­sists of 685 women and 1145 men. 
see Frosh, page 4 


ND Orientation 
Saturday, August 20 

12. 1 p.m. Lunch. Freshmen. (South Dining Hall) 
5:30 • 6:30 p.m. Dinner. Freshmen. (South Dining Hall) 7:30p.m. Welcome and Introductory Ceremony for freshmen and their parents. All freshmen required to attend. (JACC) 9 p.m. Freshmen meet with hall rectors and staff. All freshmen required to attend. (Assigned halls) 9 p.m. Parent orientation. (JACC) 
Sunday, August 21 7 • 8:15 a.m. Breakfast. Students. (South Dining Hall) 
8:30 a.m. Introduction to the academic program. All freshman required to attend. Parents welcome. (JACC) 
9:30 
·10:30 a.m. Continental Breakfast for parents. (Monogram Room, JACC) 

9:30 
a.m. General guidance sessions for freshmen. All freshmen required to attend. (Location to be announced) 11 a.m. Welcome Mass. Freshmen and parents (JACC) Noon· 12:45 p.m. Picnic lunch. (JACC) 


see NO, page 19 

comes to campus 
Saint Mary's welcomes 500 new women 
By MIMI TUOHY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Four years of hard work, determina­tion, and enjoyment began Thursday as the Saint Mary's class of 1992 arrived on campus for the first time. 
These 500 young women represent 34 states and four foreign countries, in­cluding Bolivia, Ireland, Vietnam and the Phillipines, according to Mary Pat Nolan, associate director of admis­sions. 
"This year's incoming class is very talented. Most were very involved in community activities while in high school and are eager to get involved here at Saint Mary's. We have definitely chosen a group of qualified young women," said Nolan. 
This feeling is exemplified by the fact that almost ten percent of the freshmen have been named as Presidential Scholars, an honor granted to a certain number of superb high school seniors across the country. 
"Saint Mary's College has a lot going for it. The incoming students are aware of the quality of the programs that ex­ist, and the heritage and tradition of the college. They all want to be a part of the community and we are glad that they are here," Nolan said. 
In order to welcome them appropriat­ly, the Orientation '88 Committee, the faculty, staff and administration have organized academic, social and religi­ous events focusing on the concerns of the new students. 
The social event this evening, the Beach Party at 6 p.m. on the Library Green, will allow the students families to get acquainted before the academic year is officially opened Sunday at a liturgical service at 9:30a.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Orientation Chairperson Sue Suchy believes that this weekend has a great impact on the general attitude of the incoming freshman class. "This is a 
see SMC, page 4 

SMC Orientation 
Saturday, August 20 

11 :30 a.m. • 1 :00 p.m. College Open House (Angela Athletic Facility) 2 p.m. Financial Aid Briefing (Little Theater, Moreau Hall) 3 p.m. Student Services Presentation (O'Laughlin Auditorium) 4 p.m. Survival group meetings (Location to be announced) 6 • 8 p.m. Beach Party '88 (Library Green) 
Sunday, August 21 
8:15 • 9 a.m. Breakfast 

9:30 a.m. Opening of School Liturgy (Angela Athletic Facility) 11 • 1 p.m. Brunch 1 p.m. Survival group meetings for groups 1-33 (Locations to be announced) 1 p.m. Making the Grade with Time to Play for groups 34-65 (Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall) 1 p.m. Bloom Where You're Planted for groups 66-100 (Haggar Parlor) 2 p.m. Survival group meetings for groups 34-65 (Locations to be announced) 2 p.m. Making the Grade with Time to Play for groups 66-100 (Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall) 
see Saint Mary's, page 19 



page 2 
In Brief 
Student parking? No, the Indiana State Fair's demolition derby in Indianapolis is coming up and Roger Cox, the state champion, doesn't have a sponsor.. The Evansville junkyard operator is one of about 100 drivers expected to compete in next Saturday's mechanized mayhem and estimates he'll spend about $1,000, as much as the winner receives, preparing his car. Cox had the doors bashed off his car by the time he vanquished his opponents in last year's title bout. His wife was terrified. "I'll put it this way: I've seen him in about 300 demos and that one I cried all the way through," said Tonya Cox. "It's nothing like the little bitty ones around here, they go gung-ho. I was begging him, 'Please let's go home.' I just prayed a lot." -Associated Press 
The Challenger is ready, say elated engineers more than 2 1t2 years after a flawed booster rocket joint doomed the Challenger, the redesigned part is "the safest thing on the space shuttle" and elated engineers say the craft is ready to launch. Meanwhile, technicians at Cape Canaveral, Fla., bolted a clamp over a gas leak on the Discovery and applied a sealing compound today as they worked to clear one of the last remaining hurdles to liftoff. NASA spokeswoman Pat Phillips said the compound would have to set for several hours, then workers would run pressure checks over the weekend to determine how well the seal worked. -Associated Press 
Jack the Ripper still cannot be identified from lost-long photographs and documents recovered by police. Never­theless, the documents released Thursday have helped fill in historical gaps and included a chilling letter, written in neat script and red ink, said to be from the Ripper, according to police. The yellowed Ripper letter taunts the police for failing to catch him. "I keep hearing the police have caught me but they won't fix me just yet. I have laughed when they look so clever and talk about being on the right track," it said. Dellow said part of the evidence, a set of post-mortem photographs of the Ripper's victims, was given to police last year by the family of a deceased policeman. It was not known how they came into his pos­session, he said. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Marching Band Registration is takingplaceTODA Y at Washington Hall. All interested students should stop by as soon as possible. Daily rehearsals are scheduled in preparation for final auditions on Wednesday, Aug. 24. Openings available on all instruments. For further infor­mation, call the band office at 239-7136. -The Observer 
The Observer Of Interest section is for announcement of free, campus-wide, one-time events of general int~rest. The Lecture Circuit section on the inside back page 1s for announcement of lectures on campus. The Campus section on the inside back page is for announcement of other campus events of general interest. The Observer provides these spaces free of charge as a public s~rvice, but reserves the right to edit all submitted matenals and de­termine which items it will publish. Announcements for all sections must be submitted by 1:00 p.m. the day before publication. -The Observer 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 
Design Editors.. .. ..... Bernadette Shilts .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . .. . Alison Cocks ................................. Annette Rowland Typesetter .. Mark Ridgeway News Editors.. Regis Coccia ....................... Mark McLaughlin 
Tile Obeener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
durina exam and vacation periods. Tile Oboero'er is published by the students of the 
Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, lodiana 46556. 
Tile Obeener is a member of Tile Aaodll&ed Praa. All reproduction rights are . reserved. 
Sports Copy Editors. ... .. Marty Strasen 
.. ... ..... .. .. .. .. .. ...... Theresa Kelly ...................................... Steve Megargee Viewpoint Copy Editor .. . Matt Slaughter Accent Copy Editors ............ Beth Healy ............................................... John Blasi Photographer... .. ...... Rob Regovich 
Saturday, August 20, 1988

The Observer 

Some down-to-earth tips for starry-eyed freshmen 
Here you are, a starry-eyed (teary-eyed, per­haps) freshman, full of visions of the Golden Dome and of the Grotto at night and the an­ticipation of our first football game. And after the parents leave and you spend that first night without much to do except miss home and hometown honeys and food cooked by Mom or Dad instead of anonymous dining hall workers, you'll get depressed. Don't worry, it goes away. But just to tide you over the "freshman hump", here's some practical advice: 
Major decision: But it's not really a major decision, since you can switch colleges until your junior year and can switch majors until the seventh day of your senior year. Just re­member that Engineering has the largest num­ber of freshmen and the smallest number of seniors. At least, that's what some senior told me my freshman year. 
Miami: Jimmy Johnson is Satan incarnate. Miami players wear their IQ's on their jerseys. Find an upperclassman who went to see us lose last year 24-0 or three years ago 58-7 to tell you about Miami fans --we can't print words like 
that here. This is the same team that said on national television last year that they couldn't wait for October 15th to roll around. This is the year. Have faith. 
Chinese food: I have yet to find a decent Chinese food joint in South Bend. If you do, please let me know. 
SYRs: ThisstandsforScrewYourRoommate dances, which you probably read about in the admissions booklets. What they didn't tell you is that the administration is phasing them out with a requirement of 70 percent attendance two weeks before the event. Tben they will tell us next year that it is our own fault that there is no social life on campus. Two morals to this story: 1) Go to SYRs while you still can, and 
2) find some other way to meet members of the opposite sex. 
Parents: Don't rejoice. You haven't gotten rid of them. You have instead traded them in on a new set, living in the Golden Dome and the student center. Your new parents are aut­horitarian parents, which psychologists will tell you are the worst kind to have. Off-campus is not an option as a freshman, so deal with par­ents as best you can. I would recommend the 
~------------~------------------------~ 
1tneed someone with 
Wish your friends a happy
theronfldenceofa~
thededicationol . amarathoner andthe 
birthday with Observer 
rourage ofanexplortt. 
We need • Peace Corps volunteer. Call us at l...soo-..424.S580, Exl. 9l 
• advertising. • ~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
Mark n
Mclaughlin 
News Editor 
"what they don't know won't hurt you" ap­
proach, but that can lead to dismissal and for­
feiture of tuition, so watch your back. 
Parietals: The grass by Saint Mary's Lake 
is a decent spot to break. parietals. The golf 
course isn't bad either. Watch out for bugs and 
Security, which has been known to patrol these 
areas. Don't use the steam tunnels --they're 
too dirty. If you're really that hot to trot, go 
find a motel. Twenty bucks is cheap compared 
to a semester's tuition and the eight semesters 
I've been here someone's gotten caught on 
campus and expelled. 
The Dome: Don't climb it. The view isn't that 
good, you can't reach the gold part, it's a long 
way down, and getting caught is no fun at all. 
Computer time: Use a word processor, be­
cause with a little practice you can learn to 
write 12-page papers from start to finish in six 
hours. This ability does you no good, however, 
if you can't get on a computer. Go early. Like 
five in the morning. 
Alcohol: Despite administration dreams to 
the contrary, drinking is a part of social life. 
But don't be stupid and go near automobiles 
while you're doing it. People get killed that way. 
Seniors: As a freshman it is easy to believe that seniors are more knowledgeable, more at ease about dating, more worldly. Don't buy it. The more time you spend at college, the more you realize that you are absolutely clueless about most of life. We're just better at looking like we know what we're doing. 
That's a bit of the things you won't learn in books around here. And soon you too will com­plain about the administration and the long lines for everything and the bookstore prices. But odds are good that you'lllove the place in four years (perhaps five) just as much as us clueless seniors do now. Just don't say we didn't warn you. 

-~--~----------~ -~---...---------. 
Construction work should settle down 

No freshmen in
M C ESCHFR PRINTS LASER PHO i'CJGRAPHS MOVIE PO'iTERS 
study lounges Ar!d Mur-t! MorP.' 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN News Editor 
The sounds of saws and jack­hammers should be dying down this fall as several construction projects on the Notre Dame campus are completed. 
The construction· is "largely the result of the fund drive. A lot of the money raised has been put into much needed buildings on campus," said Dedrick. The Strategic Mo­ment campaign has attempted to raise $300 million, much of which has been earmarked for buildings. 
Removal of the scaffolding on the Golden Dome of the Ad­ministration Building will start are both "99 percent done," ac­cording to Dedrick. "The landscaping's not done yet be­cause we're waiting on the weather --it's been so hot and dry," said Dedrick. He added that some minor details in the two dorms were still being finished. 
Renovations in Keenan Hall and Stanford Hall are also com­ing to a close. "We put a lot of effort this summer into Keenan and Stanford, especially into increasing the social space," Dedrick said. 
About $1 million was spent on the two dorms, but that money bought "more than just paint," Dedrick said. New plumbing, new grounded electrical sys­tems, a modern fire and heat detector system, new emer­gency exits, and new air han­dling systems for the base­ments were installed in both dorms. 
At a less advanced state of completion is the addition to Nieuwland Science Hall, which was started last spring. The new wing will consist of new physics classrooms as well as new faculty offices and the ad­ministration's Hewlett­Packard computer. 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN News Editor 
No freshmen will be forced into temporary housing this year, as has been the case in past years, said Director of Stu­dent Residences Evelyn Reinebold. 
"It's a very good feeling" to have all the freshmen housed, 

1-'~~ N.U II•-~ 11'-rl "1'1'111.111 lnldho11.'"'''11!!,.,r 
I""! I"!<; .... fl'l~•• •·~P~~·r•l .~ iht-1 nol~~ '\.11•"'" 
I""" l'rt••M'"I•I\u•I"J

3 LARGE PRINTS FOR ~12! 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who \\OO!d? 
'" t(t'l rrrnh:.J rftli111n-'l"~' r!fl rl'l<" flf/t' •If .J lrn· f'R'~• JIIJ h.•u u Nt'''''''"'uulrr~tht-. ''rh'<l'"'•'U••·m\ lh·t·rr~···'""ll'' ••lltht·Fn'' 'tnfndmnu \'t'ltll'r Jl 1-t'!ltl·~~~-lf\\~1 


next week, said Dedrick. "They're finished with the gil­ding pretty much except for the bottom three feet of the dome,'' he added. 
The upper levels of the scaf­folding will be removed while the gilding is finished. 
The North Dining Hall con­struction, which started last fall, will be finished by early October. Dining capacity will be increased to over 1700 total, 
an  improvement  from  last  
year's  capacity  of  1100,  
Dedrick said.  

For dining hall details, see page 5 
Siegfried Hall and Knott Hall 
The Observer I Rob Regovich 
Sneak preview 

(Lett) The interior of the new North Dining Hall. The newly installed skylights can be seen in the ceiling area. (Top) Workers are finishing the south portion of the dining hall to be opened in mid-October. The north portion of the dining hall will be open Sunday evening for the first time since renovations began. For details, see page 5. 
/MP~CSSIOIIISM ro su~~raus'lf ..•.. 
MID £V£RYTHIIIG BCTW££11! 
lbday thru friday, Aug. 26 
9am-5pm Notre Dame Room {2nd floor) 
LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
said Reinebold. This is the first year in 17 years that no fresh­men have been forced to live in temporary converted study halls while awaiting dormitory rooms. 
"One of the factors is that we didn't close Holy Cross Hall," said Reinebold. Holy Cross Hall, a men's dormitory housing 222 students, was slated to be closed last year, but the University decided to keep it open, according to Reinebold. 
Good estimates of the num­ber of incoming students also helped the housing situation. "Admissions kept their num­ber (of estimated students) relatively stable," said Reinebold. Another factor was the class size, which increased only slightly from last year. 
In past years, some fresh­men have been housed in study lounges for the entire first se­mester. 
An earth retention system around the new addition is now in place. "Earth retainers are tricky," said Dedrick. "They have to be placed just so, or the existing building will settle or crack." Cracks appeared last year after a similar addition to the LaFortune Student Center, but these were the result of shrinkage and not settling, said Dedrick. 
Foundations for the addition will be in place before this win­ter, and the building will be completed by next September, Dedrick added. 
Dedrick said the use of the addition for 1989 fall classes was a "touch and go" proposi­tion. 
The Crypt underneath Sa­cred Heart Church has been reopened after extensive renovations. "It's worth a trip for the parents to go see it," said Dedrick. "It's really beau­tiful." 
Air conditioning has also been installed in Sacred Heart Church. 
"I've been here ten years and the rate of construction's been pretty steady, but it's been higher lately," said Dedrick. 

-0 
.. 
-

page 4
r The Observer Saturday, August 20, 1988
r 
I 
states represented continue to

' 
be Illinois, Ohio, Pennslyvania, New York, and Indiana. 

I Frosh 
continued from page 1 

Last year's conversion of Although the official statis­Howard Hall into a women's tics cannot be completed until dorm and the newly opened after registration, Rooney said Siegfried Hall and Knott Hall that the average SAT score for 
will help to accomodate these 
the class of 1992 is in the low extra women. 1200's. The average freshman was in the top 5 percent of his 
One characteristic of this high school class. 
freshman class is its geogra­"The hardest part of my job 
phic diversity. Students come is to have to say no to so many 
from every state and many qualified students," said 
foreign countries. The top five Rooney. 

Foreign Study Programs 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INVITES YOU TO ATTEND A GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION 
WHEN: SUNDAY, AUGUST 21, 1988 
WHERE: JACC, ARENA, Sections 4/5/6 (Purple and Orange 1 
TIME: 2:00 P.M. 
Immediately following the general information session, individual sessions 
!<)reach program will be held in the following rooms:
These Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps mar-to campus early for ROTC duty. chers were among the many freshmen asked to report 
PROORAM COORDINATOR .B:X:M 

Angers. FrD~ ·' Dr. Louis MacKenz1e Gate 10, Gym 
SMC 
ln~soruck, Austria Dr. Albert Wimmer C14
IRELAND
continued from page 1 
Jerusalem, Israel Dr. Isabel Charles C124' 
time to help instill a feeling of 
PROGRAM 
Maynooth, Ireland Ms. Roxann Brown Monogram Room B Saint Mary's College 
enthusiasm into the students 
about Saint Mary's while hel­
Information Sessions 
ping to familiarize them with 
Mexico City, Mexico Dr. Olivera-Williams Monogram Room C
their new surroundings. Even though the number of freshmen 
SMC ND 
People's Republic of China Dr. Dian Murray Rolf's Aquatic Center 
this year is large, we have a 
Summer Program Spectator Area 

Fri., Aug. 19 Sun., Aug. 21
great number of caring individ­uals who want to help them 
Rome, Italy Dr. Peter Checca Gate 8, Gym
1:30 p.m. 2:00p.m. 
Saint Mary's College 

begin their college career as 
LITTLE THEATRE ACC
easily as possible,"said Suchy. 
Tokyo, Japan Fr. George Minamiki, SJ PI, Rolf's Aquatrc 
(after general session) 
Center
Join· 

Former student participants will also be on hand to discuss their 
experiences; offer comments and answer questions.
Parents Welcome 
The Observer 





Now that anew school year is under way, we have an idea that'll make both you and your parents feel abit more confident come fmals time: 
Get aMacintosh® computer to help with your homework. 
Then you'll never have to spend another all-nighter retyping apaper just to purge afew typos and dangling modifiers. You'll be able to crank out assignments that look as though you bribed afriend in art school. And with an amazing new program called HyperCard®-which just happens to come packaged with every Macintosh-you can easily store, organize, and cross-reference researc notes to your heart's content. 
And if that isn't enough reason 

Apple, the Apple logo, and M:zcmwsh are regislered lrademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Sony Di.t,cman is a trademark of Sony Corporation. No purch~ necessary Odds depend on number of entrants. See your campus Apple reseller for complete contest dera1ls. Prizes may vary from produl1 shown. 
--~----------~------~~---­
Dining renovations on track 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN News Editor 
The renovations and addi­tions to North Dining Hall will be completed on schedule, ac­cording to Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant. 
Most of the dining hall will be open for its first meal Sun­day night for dinner, said Director of Food Services William Hickey. The remainder of the facilities will be opened in mid-October. 
"We had two main areas of improvement: the decor and the serveries," said Hickey. "Everything is so different it will blow the socks off people," he added. 
"The serveries have been gutted," said Hickey. "The lines have been changed to a total scramble system, with different lines for hot food, deli food, desserts, and cereals. We hae totally new tile and new equipment. 
"It's a completely different operation than it was before," Hickey added. 
In the dining area, a two­level dining area, new skylights, and completely new furniture have been added, said Dedrick. "One of our goals was to improve the dining am­bience," Dedrick said. "It should be overall a more pleas­ant dining experience." 
Dining hall capacity has been increased by 500, said Hickey. 
New in North Dining Hall are the Blue Room and the Gold Room. These rooms are stu­dent dining rooms at the north and south ends of the dining hall, said Hickey. They will be part of the regular dining area, but they also can be reserved by student groups and organi-
CARPET REMfiAfiT SALE 
10 °/o OFF 

OVER 600 REMtlfltiTS 
Carpet &Tile 
De ot 
Mon. thru Sat. 
10:00 to 5:30 
402 South Ironwood Mishawaka, Ind. Ph. 259-5630 
By MIMI TUOHY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The incoming Freshmen aren't the only people being honored at Saint Mary's Col­lege this weekend. Forty-three transfer students are also being welcomed at various events planned throughout the weekend. 
An informal luncheon wel­coming transfer and day stu­dents was held yesterday in Stapleton Lounge to allow stu­dents to meet with administra­tors and staff. 
win aSonyDiscman. 
to kx)k at aMacintosh today, here's another: 
Right now, you have three chances to win one ofSony's Distman'" CD players-including the exciting Sony Pocket Discman, which also plays the new 3-inch COs. And even ifyou miss out on the CD player, you may still win one of 15 Apple T-shirts. No strings attached-just fill out aregistration 
form at the location listed below. So come in and get your hands on aMacintosh. Ifnot for yourself, do it for your folks. 
The power to be your besf" 
Enter: August 22nd-September 9th Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 -Computer Center 
zations during off-rush hours, he added. 
The 'A','B','C','D', and 'E' lines will be open Sunday, as well as the Blue Room. The southernmost 'F' line, the Gold Room, and the south entrance to the dining hall will be closed until October, said Hickey. 
The closed section represents about 300 seats, said Dedrick. 
Hickey said the closed area should not be a problem. "We can deal with any type of prob­lem like that," said Hickey. "I don't think we'll have to extend hours unless there are prob­lems feeding people." 
But Hickey said there prob­ably won't be any problems with the new facility. "I think North Dining Hall will speak 
for  itself,"  said  Hickey.  
"People  will  be  really  
surprised."  


-'·'' 
l 
r
;... -~ 
~~ .. 


The Observer I Rob Regovich 
Fast food 

In an effort to improve service, University Food Services has opened a hot dog stand to operate during the lunchtime peak. The above mural will be a backdrop for the stand. 
SMC welcomes 43 transfers 
"The Transfer/Day Student Luncheon and the transfer aca­demic briefing allow these stu­dents to meet each other and discuss concerns of theirs which may be quite different from those of the freshmen," said Mary Ellen Smith, direc­tor of student activities. 
President William Hickey addressed the transfer stu­dents in a short speech. 
"Although you don't have as much time here as the fresh­men, I encourage you to get in­volved and become acquainted with the resources available at Saint Mary's," he said. 
Transfer Chairperson Donna Ryan told the new students of her own experiences. "I re­member meeting the other transfers and feeling welcome at orientation even though I wasn't a freshman. I hope that this year's transfers feel the 
same way." 
Meg Ryan (no relation), a junior transfer from Spring Hill College in Spring Hill, Ala., said she feels welcome. "Everyone has been so nice this weekend that I feel like I know them already." 

--~~------~-----~--·---~------­
"The Macintosbes are Coming!" "The Macintosbes are Coming!" 

Yes, that's right! This weekend will he your opportunity to start the schoolyear offon the right foot with a new Macintos/:J® personal com­puter. 
The Macintosh offers you the chance to purchase a computer with enough power to get you through the tough­est assignments. But the greatest thing about the Macintosh is that it will not be a tough assignment to learn how to use it. The Macintosh is known as being one of the most user friendly computers on the market. 
Stop by the La Fortune Building on Friday, August 19 between 9-4 Saturday, August 20 between 9-3 and Sunday, August 21 from 1-3 to see how the Macintosh can help you work smarter, quicker and more crea­tively. Representatives from Apple Computer and the University will be on hand to answer your questions. 
Orders will be taken at this location and you will be able to receive your computer on the same day (while supplies last). 
tl Apple Computer, Inc. 
The power to he your best. 
Knott, Siegfried Halls completed and open 
By JANET HEROLD 
News Staff 
The newest dorms on campus are finally open, after more than a year of construction. Knott and Siegfried Halls are set this weekend to welcome their first residents. 
Knott and Siegfried may look like their neighbors, but they are "not a mirror image of the Pasquerillas. The chapels rep­resent major structural changes, there's more common space, more cubic space," said Knott Rector Janice Poorman. 
''Everybody is very pleased with both of the new dorms and are very glad to be here," said Poorman. Many of the dorms residents are transfer students Residences. However, this year each dorm will house only about 200 women, said Sister Maureen Minihane, Siegfried rector. 

The disparity stems from the fact that graduate students will be housed on the top floors of each dorm this year, said Poor­man. ''(Housing graduate stu­dents) is only until the ratio evens up," she said. 
The presence of graduate students in Knott and Siegfried 
of all types who have been is an asset, said Poorman. Min­given on-campus housing since ihane added she hopes "to there will be no women in study foster mixing among graduate lounges this year, Poorman students and undergraduates." said. 
Both new halls each have a J(nott' s rector described the capacity for 238 residents, the new halls' residents as "cul­same as Pasquerilla West, ac­turally diverse," adding that cording to the Office of Student they are a strength and a dis-is "certainly excited about the challenge of being a new rector of a new dorm." 

Minihane worked as a prin­cipal of Saint Mary's School in Virginia before coming to Notre Dame last year to work with the Church Leaders pro­gram. 
Minihane, who was chosen as rector of Siegfried last spring, said she is "very excited"about 

being rector and has felt a tinguishing characteristic for "real sense of community with both dorms. the RAs." 
Poorman became a rector last May, after serving a year Each dorm's resident assis­as assistant rector of Farley. tants were "selected from the Prior to working in Farley, she top alternates from all other taught religion, history, and women's halls and a few off­English at the high school level campus people," said Poor­for 10 years. Poorman said she man. 
Sophomore to chair Honor Code Committee 
By KENDRA MORRILL While serving on the Fresh-Assistant News Editor man Advisory Council last year, Stamile was also a mem-After just one year as a stu-ber of a team that represented dent at Notre Dame, Kristen Notre Dame at a national con-Lynn Stamile has been named ference on honor codes at Chair of the University Com-Princeton University, she said. mittee on the Academic Honor "People in our class (of 1991) Code. were needed to learn about the 
Stamile is a Dean's List soph-honor code, to get student rep­omore from Breen-Phillips resentation," Stamile said. Hall who was very active in stu-"(The Honor Code committee) dent government during her has been run by faculty. That's freshman year, according to a not what the Honor Code is letter from Associate Provost about," she said. Oliver Williams. Williams Williams contacted Stamile chaired the committee during during the summer, asking her the past year until student lead-if she would accept the role of ership could be identified, the chair, she said. letter said. Stamile's appointment "marks a very important recognition of the maturity and abilities of our students," Wit-Iiams said in his letter. 
Stamile's role as chair will be to work with the committee in designing an Honor Code sys-
tern that will serve the situation 
at Notre Dame, Williams said. 
Stamile said she accepted the appointment because "it's im­portant to find something that will not theoretically work, but will realistically work, for Notre Dame." 
"In theory, I like the Honor Code; I agree with its prin­ciples," Stamile said. "But lots of students don't agree with it, and I can empathize with them. 
I'm a student here, too, and I louder than positive feel much like them." responses." 
Stamile said she believes an 

"People are confused about education under the Honor the Honor Code," she said. Code system is very different "There's a need for a lot of edu­from one under the past aca­cation." demic system. "It's something 
The Honor Code began its that can be carried on to later four year trial period in Janu­life," she said. "It offers a ary of 1988. Stamile said she moral education as well (as an feels that, without enough edu­academic one)." cation about the Honor Code, the response to it has not been It is too early to tell whether completely positive. the Honor Code at Notre Dame 
"The response hasn't been is he~e to stay, according to totally negative, but if people Stamlle. "If students believe in don't understand (the Honor the Honor Code, it's wonder­Code) they can't support it," ful," she said. "If they don't she said. "And negative believe in it then there is no responses are usually alot need for it." 
W,@l,67!Uff!Uk!dth'#d/ffi'ffi'#ff/4W4??0WJZp@.M74W/@Wff#ffffi&/(ffffd7MWQ/H/Wffffff//&'ff@/l///ffff#ffhWHN!HH!hfhfffM@Uff4Mf/ff& W:WffdffiWd@ 00 W)!@dkk»b')/ffiffh/h%##1@47////@1W!ir///U/;WA g »» 
HAMMES 




TM 
WALLSAVER REMOVABLE POSTER TAPE 
HANG PICTURES AND POSTER WITHOUT DAMAGING WALLS OR POSTER 
$1.95 

SUPPORT THE DREAM WITH 3M 

OPEN TUES. AUG. 23 AND WED. AUG. 24 
MOUNTING SQUARES 
DOUBLE FACED ADHESIVE, 16 ONE INCH SQUARES 
79¢ 



SCOTCH R MAGIC TAPE 
2 I $1.00 
9AM TO 7PM 

ies. We 
1.------u.-.----.
mr:JI!I,,~n~u.... . . 

: : 
: 
I II W'd 
1 e Mar 
I
1 · 
With this cou 
I additional $/on and 
Buyers 
59~a~et Place Mish orth Grape
awaha In 
277-8694. 


------~------------~----~------~------~----~--~---~-----~·-----~~--~1 
l 
Saturday, August 20, 1988 The Observer page 9 
I 
ND Orientation Committee pulls out stops for freshmen 
By REGIS COCCIA News Editor 
The time has come. The plan­ning is over. Notre Dame's newest freshmen have arrived and the Orientation Committee is pulling out all the stops to welcome them. 
A variety of social events, in­cluding a quad party and a "Graffiti Dance" on the Stepan basketball courts, have been scheduled. Events have also been planned by all 26 dorms. 
Anne Freitag and Amy Roc­hon, Orientation Committee co­chairmen, are both looking for­ward to this weekend's events. 
"I'm really excited about it," Rochon said. "We started working on it six months ago. All summer we couldn't wait for it to get here." 
About 187 students campus­wide are involved with the Or­ientation Committee this weekend, Freitag said. Stu­dents will be posted at the gates amd in the halls to greet and assist the incoming freshmen. 
Whatever the weather, it won't rain on their parade. "We 
have alternate locations. If it 
rains, at least we're covered. 
At least it won't be too hot," 
Freitag said. 
This year, the committee es­tablished a new Hospitality Room in LaFortune Student Center to provide freshmen and their families with infor­mation and refreshments. 
Open today from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. and Sunday from 2 to 5 p.m., the Hospitality Room of­fers campus information and cookies and lemonade. 
"A lot of transfer students have been coming through too. It's really for any new stu­dents," Rochon said. 
Various events designed to help acquaint freshmen with campus and each other will be held throughout the weekend. 
On Sunday night at 9 p.m., Talent Unlimited, a private en­tertainment group, will present a variety show _on the stepan basketball courts with the help of attending freshmen. 
From then until 1 a.m., the Class of '92 will have something to really write home about --a "Graffiti Dance." Music will be provided by "The Left." 
"I think it will go over really well," said Rochon. "The key is that they wear white T­shirts." 
"This year it seems people are more accessible, especially with the Hospitality Room," said Hall Coordinator Scott Berg. "It makes things go much more smoothly than in years past." 
Even after this weekend, Freitag and Rochon will con­tinue to assist freshmen. Working with Dean Emil Hof­man in Freshman Year of Studies, they will be respon­sible for social programming during this semester. 
"We just had so much fun during our freshman orienta­tion that we wanted to share in it this year," Freitag said. 
"I think it's going to a lot of fun. The culmination of six months of work is right here. Everybody is all psyched up and gung ho," she said. "That's what makes it all worthwhile, seeing them have a good time.'' 

Most freshmen find moving in an exhausting experience, even when moving into brand new Knott Hall. For details on Knott and Siegfried Hall, the two new women's dorms, see page 7. 
SMC student government stresses unity for everybody 
By MIMI TUOHY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment boards have set goals for the coming year, stressing unity as a primary goal for the entire student body. 
Student government at Saint Mary's is guided by Student Body President Julie Parrish, who also heads the Board of Governance. Lisa Hill, vice president for student affairs, presidents, committee chair­men and Student Activities Board commissioners, ap­proves policies and rule as well as discusses college and stu­dent issues. 

The Programming Board, comprised of class and hall vice presidents, coordinates activities and schedules Saint Mary's class and hall events. 
The Student Activities Board will plan college activities, movie series, co-sponsor events with other groups on campus and will coordinate larger events on campus, such 
Microcomputer Lab Consultants 

Services in the Office of University Computing is seeking applicants for positions as assistant consultants in its campus microcomputer labs. All students with microcomputer hardware and software experience (especially IBM, Zenith, other PC compatible and Apple Macintosh) are encouraged to apply. Interested persons should fill out an application form in the Office of University Computing Library (room 3 of the Computing Center/Math Building) between the hours of B:OQ-12:00 and 1:00-5:00 Monday through 
Friday. Interviews will be conducted beginning 8/26 so please respond as soon as ible. 
as the Beer Gardens in October and a proposed Casino Night in February. "Having worked with previous student govern­ments, I think I can say this will be a good year. Julie Par­rish has good experience and will provide productive leader­ship for the group," said Stu­dent Activities Director Mary Ellen Smith. 
"Student Activities Board has great ideas with emphasis placed on programming with diversity," Smith said. "Watching orientation, the group looks very dedicated and ambitious. I think they will be exciting to watch." heads the Programming Board. 
Christy Wolfe, vice president for academic affairs and col­lege relations, directs the Stu­dent Academic Council. Julie 

BOOKS.' BOOKS! BOOKS! 
For your convenience Textbooks are now arranged by course number. 
Extended bookstore hours on 
tuesday, aug. 23rd and wednesday, aug. 24th 9am to 7pm 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
VVagner and Shannon McGowan are responsible for the Student Activities Board. 
"I've very happy with our or­ientation," said Parrish. "Everyone on the boards has good ideas, strong points and initiative. I'm impressed with the unity the group has and with the enthusiasm. As in years past, we see 'approac­hability' as a significant prob­lem," she said. 
"Students rarely seek out the student government represen­tatives to air a problem or con­flict," Parrish said. "We want all the members of student gov­ernment to be visible and to ob­tain the input of the student body. To only have the opinions of the student governement members is to ignore the needs and opinions of the whole stu­dent body." 
Impress people 
Work for 
The 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
=-­

Viewpoint 
Saturday, August 20, 1988 

How best to create the ND experience 
Tomorrow most of you freshmen will walk mom and dad to the car and, after a tearful embrace, say good-bye. The initial shock of the separation will numb you for some time, but soon the realization that you are alone will slap you in the face. Alone? Not really, but your mind will insist otherwise. Your roommate(s), sectionmates, class­mates; they all still stand a bit distant, acquaintances just beginning to cross into the realm of friendship. What now? 
Matt Slaughter 
and another thing 

Don't worry. Your fears will all soon dissipate as the flurry of activities which met you this orientaion weekend continues unabated; you won't have time to worry. Time will quicken its pace. In no time at all you'll be standing on the floor of the J.A.C.C. not to be welcomed with a parental blessing but to be dismissed with a diploma. 
Before you rush headlong into your four years here under the Dome I'd like 
Hickey salutes SMC freshmen 
Dear Class of 1992: 
Welcome to Saint Mary's College! You are about to begin what we hope will be one of the most rewarding four­year periods of your life. We are excited to have you here. 
In selecting a liberal arts education, you have decided to explore the many educational avenues which will give you a solid foundation for the life you will live after Saint Mary's. This edu­cation will prepare you for a lifetime of learning. I encourage you to probe, question, search, grow--stretch your mind and take full advantage of the knowledge that is just waiting to be dis­covered. An important part of this proces~ will be the interaction you will have with your professors. Take the time to get to know them well. They care deeply about you, as a person and as a student. Give them the chance to challenge you intellectually and to guide you academically. They are your mentors, and you will find that learning from them extends far beyond the doors of the classroom. 
Saint Mary's College is dedicated to helping you develop your talents, not only academically but also spiritually, culturally, and as a human being. You have selected a Catholic college and are truly blessed to be studying in a caring, Christian community. There are many ways on this campus for you to explore your religious heritage. Take advan­tage of these opportunities; your faith can be renewed and deepened during your stay with us. 
to offer you, at the risk of sounding pretentious, a singular piece of advice. Actually the thought is not mine, nor is it particularly striking. Nonetheless it merits repeating as you begin to chart your course. I defer to Aristotle, the great Greek philosopher, and his proclamation "All things in modera­tion; nothing to excess." 
This maxim speaks volumes to you if you listen. What it urges of you is, as you proceed throughout your Notre Dame experience, to maintain a bal­ance among your activities. Do not limit yourself, for narrowness of activ­ities begets narrowness of mind, the outcome antithetical to the university experience. In the abstract this sounds good and fine and easy but beware. The person with this proper balance may unfortunately be the exception, not the rule. The powers that be will often pull you too far toward narrowness. Resist. The above is not to say you must prepare some master plan which all­ocates your every waking minute. Schedules too suffer from the law of diminishing returns. It should rest in the back of your mind, a truism to which you can periodically refer in an 
-
attempt to make order out of your daily chaos. 
Start with academics, your more or less primary concern here at Notre Dame. Balance your academic activi­ties with your non-academic ones, taking time out to smell the proverbial roses. Balance too the components of, these two halves. Academically, regardless of the major you eventually settle upon, try to obtain a true liberal education. Take courses from as many disciplines as you can, studying whatever interests you for no other rea­son than that it interests you. Aero­space engineers should take pottery courses. Broaden your education and it will become all the more enjoyable. Non-academically, choose from the seemingly countless clubs and activi­ties on campus. Too often students' ex­tracurriculars consist of football games and trips to the Rock. Write for one of the student publications, take up pho­tography, hone your speaking skills; in short spend your time outside the class­room wherever your many interests take you. 
This balance should be a fluid, not static, one. Pick and choose, do and 

P.O. Box Q 
Saint Mary's has many clubs and or­ganizations for every interest. There are varsity and intramural sports, the campus paper, yearbook, literary mag­azine, and student government. We en­courage you to get involved and to enjoy developing what will become some of the most special and treasured friendships of your lifetime. 
We realize that the transition to col­lege is not easy. But we want you to know that we are here to help you through it. Counselors, faculty, admi­nistrators, and Sisters alike, we want you to succeed and to get over the hurdle. Seek us out, if you need us. 
As you begin your first year at Saint Mary's, I challenge you to take advan­tage of the wonderful opportunities awaiting you. Persevere. Take strides forward and grow as a total person. Soon these few short years will be past. Let them be well spent so that when you leave, you will set out with confi­dence to contribute toward making our world a better place. 
Dr. William A. Hickey President Saint Mary's College August 18, 1988 
Malloy welcomes the Class of 1992 
Dear Class of 1992: 

It is my privilege to welcome you to Notre Dame on behalf of all my col­leagues here at the University. We have a beautiful campus and a stimulating learning environment. Soon I hope you will call it home. 
You have already distinguished your­selves in high school for your academic achievement and your leadership role. I hope that you can build on this foun­dation and bring to Notre Dame the richness of your talent, energy, and en­thusiasm. This is a tradition-laden place, but every generation needs to take on the challenges of the present. 
I pray that Notre Dame may become a special place for you as it has been for me and so many other graduates of the past. I look forward to meeting you personally. 
Father Edward Malloy President University of Notre Dame August 18, 1988 
Commissioners greet class 
Dear Class of 1992: 
Welcome to Notre Dame! It's finally here--your first day of Freshman Ori­entation and the beginning of four years redo. No eurekas will appear upon reaching it for it will constantly be evolving. Where to start? A great place will be Activities Night at Stepan Cen­ter on Aug. 30; there you can learn about all sorts of campus organizations which may appeal to you. Talk with your friends and see what they have discovered. Find guidance from your professors, rectors, and administra­tors. Moderation will come to you naturally. And do not forget to respect others' balances. Given that yours will continuously change, clearly others' will differ from yours. This diversity will prove to be an asset, not a liability-­indeed, for it a university strives. 

The next four years have much to offer you, and I hope you will get your fill. Members of the Notre Dame family usually leave quite satiated. And try as you proceed to heed Aristotle's words. Use the University to its fullest by sam­pling all of what it offers. You will emerge a better person both in your mind and in the minds of others. 
Matt Slaughter is a junior economics major and is the Viewpoint editor. 
Student Center and the campus tours offered throughout the weekend. See your Orientation schedule for details. As for the "fun stuff," the dorms have planned lots of mixers and activities for you, and we are busy getting ready for our grand finale on Sunday night. We'll kick it off with Entertainment Un­limited at Stepan Center at 9 p.m., fol­lowed by the Graffiti Dance (wear a white T -shirt! ) . 
Whatever you do, get out there and participate! This weekend is your first and best opportunity to acquaint your­selves with Notre Dame and your fellow Domers, so don't waste it. Again, we emphatically welcome you and hope this weekend is the start of a great four years. 
Anne Freitag Amy Rochon Co-chairpersons Freshman Orientation August 18, 1988 

you've probably been looking forward r----------------, 
to for a long time. On behalf of the Freshman Orientation Committee, we welcome you to campus. 
In gaining admission to the Univer­sity, each of you has been recognized as a fine student and a well rounded individual. Just as it is an honor for you to become a part of the Notre Dame community, it is a great honor for us to welcome you as the newest members of the Notre Dame family. 

To aid you in becoming familiar with both your new surroundings and your new classmates, we have coordinated some services and social events for you. Take advantage of both our Hospitality Room located in LaFortune 
Quote of the Day 
"Don't be dismayed at good-byes. A farewell is necessary before you can meet again. And meeting again, after moments or lifetimes, is certain for those who are friends." 
Richard Bach Illusions 

Ihe Observer Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager ......... John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark McLaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager............. . .... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 

is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 

campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
-

Accent
Saturday, August 20, 1988 page 11 

Building, the official home of on 2nd floor. 
man, dean of Freshman Year ofthe dome. 

Bogus: Word applied to any like the CSC and the ACC. but Psyche: You can either psyche
Studies and retired chemistryAn Tostal: A weeklong celebra­

unacceptable or unsatisfactory don't be confused. This one's someone out or be psyched.
professor. The word 'Emil'tion held every spring, herald­

conditions, ranging from ad­next to the Post Office. You can always be psyched
simply means freshmanIng the end of school, the end 

ministration policies to the CSC: The Center for Social Iabout something or at least get
chemistry to most upperclas­

of winter (hopefully) and the Concerns. If you're concerned
weather, especially including psyched about something. We 
smen. Also a word for a tradi­

beginning of finals. Starting about your social life, don't 
pop quizzes. hope that you're getting
tional Hofman chemistry quiz.

with Monday Madness, students come here. This is a place for psyched about this year! 
engage in jello tosses, mud Bookstore: This is a two-part social issues, not socializing. Freshmen need fear no Emil. Ethanol: A pungent, gut­Parletals: (per-1-tals) This
fights In the pits and cap'n definition: I. The facility on Between the 'Brare and Crunch eating contests on days South Quad where you are Siegfried Hall. 
wrenching odor emitted from a means midnight Monday like Frivolous Friday, until forced to buy books at bogus CHEG: Short for Chemical En­local plant. Most often fills the through Thursday, 12:.30 a.m. Serene Sunday when the excit­prices. 2. The Basketball gineer. This major is no bunny. air in the morning, but count on Sundays and 2 a.m. on 
Most CHEG's don't blow off on it to show up around meal­Fridays and Saturdays. But that
ing Bookstore Finals rock Tournament of all lime, the time. depends on your R.A. Seriously
Stepan. one you've been practicing for anything. ACC: Short for the Edmund P. your entire life, the world's Double E's: Short for Electrical God Quad: Name given to Main folks, watch that dial. 
The Rock: The Rockne
Joyce Convocation and Athletic 'deffest' and largest basketball Engineer. Note the spelling of Quad so called because it is Memorial Building located on
Center. Also known as the tournament. This is held every "gEEk." Similar to CHEG's, only home to Sacred Heart Church. worse. You'll find most EE's H.T.H.: This stands for "Home South Quad. If you live on the
JACC. This place is so big that spring, and spectators and par­Town Honey." Enough said. Mod Quad you're going to hate
we guarantee you'll get lost at ticipants view the net results at permanently wired. 
P. E. January.
least as many times as you the end of An Tostal. Dogbook: Remember those Hoosier: A person from In­enter it. 'Brare: The Theodore M. Hes­pictures you sent in a while diana. Often used derogatorily. Benders: Notre Dame and Saint burgh Library. So called be­back? Well, they're all in here! "An awkward, unhandy or un­South Quad: The oldest quad Mary's students who are South cause Domenglish stresses the Not the best way to choose a skilled person" or "To loaf on on campus. Watch out for the 
Bend natives. They're going to second syllable of any word. dream date. Believe us. or botch a job," according to North-South Annual Snowball get a lot of flak for this. In Also called the Teddy 'Brare. Domers: Name given to Notre Webster's Third New Interna­Massacre on the night of the other words, this is usually not Cute, huh? Dame students, especially tional Dictionary. We did not first snowfall. Dillon usually 
a compliment. Bunny: Something really easy. men. Usually positive to say make this up. suffers the most with lots of Blowoff: Means both really easy A course with no tests and no "''m a Domer," but derogatory Mod Quad: Easternmost and broken windows. 
and not studying when you papers is a bunny. Also see when others call you this. Also newest quad on campus, as in Za: This is short for "Pizza." should. It's not a good idea to "blowoff." describes attitude and lifestyle "modern." Home to the "Six You can get a za anywhere--the blow off a final, even if it's a CCE: The Center for Continuing of students and graduates. Pack" and the 'Brare. By the Huddle, foodsales and of 
course, O.C.
blowoff course. Education. The name sounds Emil: Short for Emil T. Hof-way, contains the highest 
Dining out
The Mod Quad Melting Pot 
JOHN BLASI accent writer 
-

Siegfried and Knott halls 
k, you made It here.

0 
You've already experi­

enced the Huddle and you'reACCENT STAFF reason women wanted to 
ready for something different. tranfer to Siegfried or Knott 
C
Here are some recommended ould there be a little more from their original dorm was 
restaurants that are not too consruction? With all the due to the fact that these 
for from campus: renovation on campus, we tend are completely new dorms, 
The Old Spaghetti Works: to become immune to it after a and so will have new people 
-

The old Singer sewing ma­
while and don't even notice any and new traditions. Maureen 
chine factory now houses progress being made. North Finnegan, a sophomore, 
this restaurant and a hotel. Dining Hall seems to have decided to transfer into 
The homemade Italian been in this erector set-like Sieqfried "to get to know 
dishes are great the por­stage for months, and dust has new and neat people--there 
tions generous, and the been flying around Nieuwland will be a lot of transfer stu­
prices moderate. Reserva­for months. But the two new dents." Tracey Shelton, a 
tions recommended. Lo­women's dorms on the north freshman, is "pretty excited 
cated in downtown South end of campus are finally to meet different people." 
Bend. finished and ready to house This circle of women from 
The Emporium: The menu graduate and undergraduate other dorms will be the root 
features a little more variety students. of what will become 
with such dishes as shrimpSiegfried and Knott tradi­
tempura and terlyaki top
Located next to the Pasqueril­tions. "I really don't know sirloin. Moderate to expen­
las, and looking almost exactly what to expect with spirit," sive dinners. Reservations 
like them, these dorms are says Ronda Randle, a sopho­
recommended. Located in named Siegfried and Knott more, "but I hope to start 
downtown South Bend. 
Halls. The dorms will be full of something new and differ­
Obserwr IDe photo Phone: 2.34-9000 
not only freshmen, but up­ent." 
A worker building part of the finally moving In to Siegfried and 
Tippecanoe Place: Located 

perclassmen and transfer stu­Room and roommate situ­in the Studebaker mansion
Siegfried Hall chapel. After many Knott halls. 
dents as well. Last spring, a ations also prompted some in downtown South Bendmonths of construction women are 
.....

lottery made it possible for any of these girls to move. Ac­Tippecanoe offers gourmetwas a compromise between
woman living in university cording to Randle, transfer­"tired of room picks" in her food in historic surround­
housing to have a chance to ring to Knott meant "a bet­the two. present dorm. 
ings. Expensive. Sunday 
move to one of the new dorms. ter chance to get a quad One junior, who has had ter­It will be only a few months brunches are fantastic. 
Transfer students who were on since there aren't many in rible luck with roommates the before Siegfried and Knott be­Reservations highly recom­
a waiting list could also enter Lewis." Shelton will be past three years, asked a come part of the family, and 
mended. Phone: 2.34-9077 the lottery. rooming with a girl from an­couple friends to move over to not just "those new girls 
Probably the most popular other dorm and transferring Knott. She said she was also dorms." 
J 
~ 
page 12 Saturday, August 20, 1988
The Observer 
Justwhateverycollegestudent 
needs:Aroorr1matethatcooks. 
Introducing the newB.M.O.C.-the big­ever built. Yet with all its sophistication, it gest Macintosh on campus: still has the same point-and-click simplicity 
The Macintosh II computer. It's the per­that Macintosh has become famous for. fect roommate for power hungry students Which means, ofcourse, the Macintosh II who do high speed computing, video pro­and you will be the perfect roommates: cessing, engineering or graphic design. It cooks. And vou clean up. 
Made with an open configuration that . ,_ allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II 
.® 

is the fastest. best performing Macintosh The power to be your besf 
© 1988 Apple Computer. Inc. Apple. the Apple logo. Macintosh and Mac are registered tradroUlrks ofApple Computer. Inc. The power to he your best' is a trademark ofApple Computer. Inc. 
Come and meet representatives from Apple Computer this weekend. 
LaFortune Hall Saturday 9-3 Sunday 1-3 
Be sure to stop by and register to win a Sony CD Player 
--


The Observer page 13 
n.'*--Notre Deme office, located on 1t1e third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent c.m., ..:cephl clualfled edwertt8ing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.oe--Saint Mery's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Centllf,..:cepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne tor next-Gay claalfledsls 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must
Classifieds be pnlpUi, eltt." In JMKSOn or by mall. The chwge Is 10 cents per five cNncters per day. 
KAREN LYNCHFreshmen: The Operator is back and beller than KATHLEEN HANNONeverIIMY BROTHER the TRAITOR KEASTIN WHITEAs you enter Notre Dame and Saint

~-~-R_R_EN_T~J ~~--T_IC_K_H_S~ 
decided to go to Michigan instead of NO SUZANNE LUTZMary's lor your first year, realize that Farley's Finest Freshmen! Welcome toand now it's up to me to sell his blue ND
MY BROTHER the TRAITOR there is one day ol all importance in your the Best dorm under the dome! That has THE GIRLS OF 409 WELCOME YOU
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR "starter" jacket uusllikf> on page 4 of the
decided to go to Michigan and be in their fall calendar. That day is October 15th. the greatest hall staHl\ You are going to HOME AND LOOK FORWARD TO AN
FOOTBALL WWEEKENDS. BED 'N bookstore catalog). Like new. Regularly
band. My sister is in The Band of the What is it? love lhemll EXCEPTIONAL YEAR IN FAALEYIII
BREAKFAST REGISTRY .. 1·219·291· $63.95 but it's yours for only $30. Call
Fighting Irish. My parents need to be at Notre Dame -Mieml
7153 2804 or 277-6399 for this chance of a
the M1chigar>ND game to prevent my Have you mel the fantastic A.A.'s ol Far· 
····················· lifetime.
siblings from killing each other and to Beat the rush. ley? Stop by and you won't regret ill Ill FRESHMEN WOMEN OF N.D. BE­FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 255·36841288·0955 see their beloved children at this game Hate Miami early. WARE OF A CERTAIN JUNIOR WHO ol high sentimental value. Help stop Go Irish\ ENJOYS CRUISING LIBRARY needless violence. Sell me 3 tickets and PARKING LOTS. THE MALE SLUT OFFURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 683­keep my family intact. $$ lillie or no ob­GRACE HALLII8889, 287 ·6389 Anel··· What is in store lor this year? Only lime will lelllll ject. Call 2804 or 277·6399. 
PERSONALS 
JUNIOR CLASS PRESIDENT OF WHAT ALISSA, GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR CLUB???? YOU MACHO MAN THAT 
HEY, FRESHMAN GIRLSII\ BEWAREIll
FRESHMAN YEAR YOU AREII 
YOUR WORST NIGHTMARE IS BACK
~-W_A_NT_E_D~~~~__FO_R_S_A_LE~ 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 INTOWNIII 
WELCOME BACK STEPHANIE THOMAS I POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS ON LOFT lor sale TIM PHELAN TIM PHELAN TIM 

Don't Worry ........ Be Happyll Have a happy unbirthdayl 
CAMPUS WAITE· COLLEGE DIS· Great lor singles, triples: sturdy: stained: PHELAN I AM SO GLAD THAT YOU STEVE"ON THE MAKE"RAWLINGS. 
(I'm too kind to mention anyth1ngTRIBUTORS, 33 PEBBLEWOOD TRAIL, computer :able underneath; meets loft ARE HERE\! IT IS GOING TO BE A John Donahoe ... Welcome to NDI\1 Have WELCOME BACKIII abOut your hometown basketball teamjNAPERVILLE, IL 60540 regulations: delivered to your dorm: bolls GREAT YEARII! 

a great yearll The Girls lrom Farleyincluded --$75 or best offer. 
•

East Germans not to be overlooked 1n Olympics 
from another nation divided in ABC since Tokyo in 1964. Ten­Thomas Schoenlebe, swimmer "There's no question we have
Associated Press 
the aftermath of World War II: nis is a full-fledged medal Kristin Otto or shot putter Ulf better athletes than in '76," 
East meets West in the Sum­East Germany. In the past four sport. Britain's Daley Timmermann. Moran said, but expectations of mer Olympics for the first time Summer OLympics, the East Thompson goes for an unprece­"Our top athletes take part a 1984 repeat would be "out of since 1976, a battle of athletic Germans' per capita gold dented third straight gold in competition to show what our whack" with reality. skills on one of history's real­medal rate is about 10 times medal in the decathlon. country is capable of," said In fact, USOC president life battlegrounds: Korea. greater than that of the Soviet Eight years ago, NBC paid Timmermann, the world Robert Helmick says the 
Kept apart by politics, the Union or United States. $87 million for the Moscow record-holder. United States might have trou­world's two superpowers will "The world had probably Games but never got to show In 1976, the United States won ble even matching its 1976 total, meet Sept. 17 to Oct. 2 in a na­best take a long look at the East them because the United States 34 gold medals and 94 total, since restrictions on team sizes tion they themselves divided Germans," the U.S. Olympic boycotted over the Soviets' mil­compared with 49 gold and 125 in some sports like swimming for politics' sake. Committee's Mike Moran said. itary presence in Afghanistan. total for the Soviets. The East mean fewer medals available 
This U.S.-Soviet reunion in "They're a nation of 17 million, With 19 days and 1795 hours Germans were third in total per country. 
Seoul will be held in an uneasy and they're dominating several of coverage planned this time, medals with 90 but ranked political climate sharpened by sports.... They're putting some NBC will be able to train its ahead of the United States with threats of terrorism and stu­distance between themselves earners on U.S. stars like Carl 40 gold. 
dent riots, a 650,000-strong and the Russians." Lewis, Edwin Moses, Jackie The United States won 174 South Korean army on full bat­In many other ways, too, this Joyner-Kersee, Florence Grif­medals, including 83 gold, at tle alert, and growing anti­is a unique Olympics, from fith Joyner, Mary Decker the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, American sentiment. television to tennis to Slaney, Matt Biondi, Greg but the Soviets boycotted those 
And while worldwide atten­Thompson. NBC bought the TV Louganis and David Robinson. Games, as did the East Ger­tion will be on the American­rights for $300 million, the first And hope the real action isn't mans and most of the Soviet Soviet confrontation, many time the Summer Games have with East Germans like track bloc, citing inadequate secur­
suspect the big winner will be been shown by anyone besides stars Heike Drechsler and ity. 

+
American 
Red Cross 
. Be a volunteer. 
-., 
..., 

page 14 The Observer 
Meet the people of the Athletic Department 

Special to The Observer Brian Boulac --A former tight end on the Notre Dame football 
Father E. William Beau­team, Boulac will coach the champ --Beginning his second softball team in its first year year as the University of Notre of varsity status. He served 13 Dame's executive vice presi­years on the Irish football dent, Beauchamp heads the coaching staff. faculty board in control of ath­In 1983, Boulac was named letics. This body is responsible assistant athletic director, a for overseeing Notre Dame position he will continue to athletics. hold. 
Richard Rosenthal --A Tim Connolly --A 1983 Notre former two-time All-America Dame grad, the 27-year-old Notre Dame basketball player, Connolly is a first-year head co­Rosenthal is in his second year ach of the women's cross Lou Holtz Joe Plane
Mike DeCicco 
as Notre Dame athletic direc­country team. The former tor. Mter replacing Gene Cor­Syracuse graduate assistant team coming off consecutive record 16 consecutive vic­the Irish. Phelps, whose official rigan in August 1987, Rosen­coach also will be an assistant losing seasons into the Cotton tories. first name is Richard, also is thal's first year as athletic coach for the men's cross Bowl as the Irish posted an 8-4 Murphy's resume includes known as one of the most out­director saw the women's golf, country squad. record. Before arriving at managing the Class A Tri-City spoken coaches in discussing soccer and softball teams all Mike DeCicco --This 1949 Notre Dame, the 51-year-old Triplets, where he was the the state of college athletics gain varsity status. Notre Dame alum doubles as Holtz coached at William and youngest manager in profes­and how academics and ath­
Before he was named ath­coach of the national power Mary, North Carolina State, sional baseball, and coaching letics can coexist. letic director, Rosenthal men's fencing team and aca­Arkansas and Minnesota and the Holland national team to Joe Piane --Preparing for his served as the chairman of the demic advisor for all Notre also served a one-year stint the European championship in 14th year as head coach of both board and chief executive of­Dame athletes. with the NFL's New York Jets. the summer of 1987. Murphy the men's track and cross fficer of the St. Joseph Bancor­Art Lambert --Will lead the turned down the opportunity of country teams, Piane directed poration and St. Joseph Bank & Much of the credit for the Irish volleyball team through coaching the Dutch team in the the cross country squad to a Trust Co. for 25 years. He University's high graduation its toughest schedule ever in 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics surprising seventh-place finish graduated from Notre Dame in rate among its athlete belongs 1988. Lambert's team went 30-9 in order to concentrate on his in the nation last season. Piane 1954. to DeCicco, who advises more last season and has a 89-50 job at Notre Dame. was selected as the NCAA Dis­
Yves Auriol --In three than 500 Notre Dame athletes. record in his four years at trict IV Coach of the Year for seasons as coach of the Irish In 27 years as the Irish fen­Notre Dame. the 1986 outdoor track season.
Rich O'Leary --Havingwomen's fencing team, Auriol cing coach, his teams have won Lambert coached men's and served eight years as the Notre has guided his squad to one na­national championships in women's volleyball and water Dame varsity lacrosse coach, Ric Schafer --A formertional team title and two indi­1977, 1978, 1986 and 1988. polo (winning the NCAA Cham­O'Leary also is the assistant player and assistant coach ofvidual national championships. Michele Gelfman --Starting pionship in 1976) at Stanford director of Non-Varsity Ath­the Notre Dame hockey team, The French native has coached her fourth season as women's before coming to Notre Dame letics at Notre Dame. Before Schafer returned to South Bend the U.S. Olympic team in 1980 tennis coach at Notre Dame, in 1984. 
the lacrosse team achieved last year and led the Irishand 1984, and he also will direct the Irish have won North Star Muffet McGraw --After com­varsity status in 1981, O'Leary hockey team to a best-ever 27­this year's American team in Conference titles during all her piling an 88-41 record in five coached the lacrosse club for 4-2 record. Schafer coached at next month's Seoul Games. years at the helm. In the sum­seasons at Lehigh, McGraw is 10 years. the University of Alaska­Bob Bayliss --Mter coaching mer of 1987, Gelfman was the set to begin her second season Noel O'Sullivan --A 1960 Fairbanks for seven years18 years at the Massachusetts tennis director for the Interna­as Notre Dame's women's bas­Notre Dame grad, O'Sullivan before coming back to NotreInstitute of Technology and the tional Special Olympics, which ketball coach. In her first has coached the Notre Dame Dame.
U.S. Naval Academy, Bayliss were held at South Bend. season at Notre Dame, an Irish golf team for 16 years. During Tim Welsh --After coachingis set for his second year of Dennis Grace --The 35-year­squad that went 12-15 the pre­his tenure, the Irish golfers are ]J.oth the men and women'sdirecting the Notre Dame old men's soccer coach led his vious year improved to 20-8. 
undefeated in dual meets since swim teams at Johns Hopkinsmen's tennis team. team to a best-ever 17-3-1 The season included a win over 1977. O'Sullivan also is a mem­for eight years, Welsh is enter­Bayliss replaced the legen­record last year in his fourth Duke for Notre Dame's first­ber of the College Coach's Ad­ing his third year holding thedary Tom Fallon, who coached year at the post. The season, ever victory over a nationally visory Board. same positions for NotreNotre Dame teams for 35 which ended when the Irish ranked team, and the Irish Digger Phelps --The win­Dame. Welsh was named the years, and was recently in­were refused a bid to the NCAA barely missed receiving a post­ningest Notre Dame basketball Division III Coach of the Year ducted into the Collegiate Ten­tournament, included a first­season tournament berth. 
coach of all time, Phelps has a in 1979 when he was coachingnis Hall of Fame. ever win over Indiana. 
344-155 record in 17 years with Johns Hopkins.
Since arriving at Notre This fall, Grace's responsi­Pat Murphy --The second­Dame, Bayliss has upgraded bilities also include heading up year Notre Dame baseball co­the team's schedule. He also the women's soccer team, ach saw his lifelong dream managed to lure David which enters its first season at realized last year when he was DiLucia, one of the top prep varsity status. offered the Irish head coaching players in the country last Lou Holtz --In his second job. He responded by directing spring, to the Notre Dame ten­season as Notre Dame football the Irish to a best-ever 39-22 
Doritlet 
nis program. Bayliss was coach last year, Holtz took a record that included a school-named the 1980 National Coach of the Year by the U.S. Profes­
your next test 
sional Tennis Association after his Navy squad recorded a 19-5 record. 
bowl you 
Frosh 
over.
continued from page 20 
ends Arnold Ale and Devon 
Get Stanley H. Kaplan to be your quarterback.McDonald, linebackers Troy 
For 50 years, Kaplan's test-taking techniques 
Ridgely and Michael Smalls 
and educational programs have helped over
' 

safeties Rodney Culver, Martin 
1 million students boost their scoring power 
Scruggs and cornerback wal-
ter Boyd. 
and test confidence. The freshmen reported to 
So if you're going up against the SAT, ACT, campus Aug. 8, a few days 
LSAT, GMAT, MCAT, GRE, NTE, BAR EXAM,
before the returning players 
NCLEX-RN, CPA, or others, go with the team 
came back. Besides the drills 
that knows how to win. 
and orientation to the football program, Holtz said 10 hours is spent teaching study skills to the freshman class. 
I KAPLAN 
"They're an outstanding 
STAHLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
group of people," Holtz noted. 
DON'T COMPETE Willi
"They're going to fit in well 
A KAPLAN snJDENT-BE ONE
with the rest of the freshman class." 
1717 [. South Bend Ave.
Except in foot races. 
South Bend, IN 46637
EXTRA POINTS: Senior de­
Phone 219/272-4135
fensive tackle Tom Gorman suffered an injury to his right shoulder Thursday, the first day in full pads. Gorman might be ready to play in the Sept. 10 
LSA T CLASS STARTING NOW!! opener against Michigan. 
Theresa Kelly and Steve M egargee contributed to this story. 

SPECIAL UNIVERSITY OFFER 
1/2 Off 
The Chicago Tribune will keep you informed on sports. current 
events. national employment trends. social issues. the economy 
and global politics with award-winning, in-depth coverage of 
the news-the kind of coverage you can't find on T.V. or radio. 
Order now to receive the Chicago Tribune for half price. 
·-------------------------------------­
page 15 

Sports facilities offer diversion 
Special to The Observer 
From racquetball courts to golf courses, from skating rinks to swimming pools, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's campus has the athletic facilities to fit the needs of any sports enthusiast. 
The quads are available in the fall and spring for various activities, and there are plenty of indoor athletic shelters worth a visit or two during the cold weather months. Here is a list of facilities available to students on both campuses: 
Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center --The double-domed Joyce ACC, lo­cated east of the football stadium, contains more area than the Houston Astrodome. The South Dome houses the basketball arena used by both the men and women's basket­ball teams, and the hockey team's home ice is located in the North Dome. The women's volleyball team, men's volley­ball club and wrestling team have their home matches in the JACC's auxiliary gymnasium, also known as the 'Pit.' 
The structure also contains basketball, handball, racquet­ball, squash, tennis and volley­ball courts that usually are open to the public, though reservations are required for most of the courts. 
For those interested in Fight­ing Irish sports history, many Notre Dame awards and mementos are displayed out­side the athletic department of­fices on the second floor. 
Rolfs Aquatic Center --This two-year-old natatorium, lo­cated at the east end of the JACC, features a 50-meter pool which usually is divided into three sections during recrea­tional swimming times. 
The diving section features three one-meter and two three­meter springboards. The recreational swimming section is 25 yards in length and has eight lanes for swimming laps. The final section is used for water basketball and water polo. 
The Rolfs Center, home of the men and women's swimming teams, also has new locker facilities and an observation deck that seats 380 spectators. 

Angela Athletic Facility -­Located north of McCandlesss Hall on the Saint Mary's campus, Angela includes bas­ketball, racquetball, volleyball and indoor tennis courts, and also has a carpeted jogging track around these courts. 
Weight machines, fitness and gymnastic equipment also are housed in the facility, while 
more  basketball  and  tennis  
courts  are  just  outside  the  
building.  
The  facility  is  open  to  all  

Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students upon the presentation of a student ID. Reservations are needed for the racquetball courts. 
Eck Tennis Pavilion --This indoor facility, completed last fall, is the home court for the men and women's tennis teams. Located east of the out­door Courtney tennis courts, the Eck is country-club quality, housing six laykold courts and an observation deck. 
Court time can be reserved in 75-minute blocks by calling 239-6929. Fees are $1 for stu­dents, $2 for faculty and $4 for guests. 
Loftus Indoor Athletic Facility --This new facility east of Jake Kline Field houses an artificial-turf football field (Meyo Field) a six-lane, 300­plus meter track and an im­pressive varsity weight room. The facility is used mostly for varsity team and band prac­tices. 
Burke Memorial Golf Course --On the west end of the Notre Dame campus is the 18-hole, 6,500-yard, par 71 University golf course, which is open until late fall and reopens in early spring. 
During the winter, the golf course will be open for cross country skiing on occasion. 
Knute Rockne Memorial -­Located at the west end of South Quad, 'the Rock' is the center for the physical educa­tion program. The brick struc­ture contains basketball courts, handball-racquetball courts, a weight room, a light apparatus room, a swimming pool and the golf pro shop. 
Use of the Rockne Memorial is free to all students and fac­ulty members upon presenta­tion of a University identifica­tion card. Closing time is 11 
p.m. daily. 
Stepan Center --On the north­east corner of campus are Stepan Center and the center's adjoining fields and basketball courts. Within Stepan Center are basketball and volleyball courts, open for recreational and league play. 
Outside the domed Center, one can play basketball, foot­ball, rugby, soccer and softball. The outdoor basket­ball courts are outfitted with lights that allow students to play late into the night. 
Many of the interhall sports are conducted in this area of campus. 
Regina Pool --This small swimming pool is located in the middle of Regina Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Bookstore Courts --Notre Dame's own Bookstore Basket­ball, the world's largest basket­ball tournament, owes its name to these two courts. Availability depends on the cars which use the courts as a parking lot. 

1 1 D YES! Begin delivery of the Chicago Tribune. 
I I I I I 
0 Bill me 0 Payment enclosed [check or morey order)I 0 VISO 0 MasterCard Acct II · ExpiratiOn dote 
I ~~ 
I Nome I Address/Dorm I Oty 
I ~ 
1 Oty I Phone 
I 
Closs [F.S.J.S) 
Apt./k'oom 
State ZIP 
State ZIP Offer expres December 31. 1988 
I Mall to: Chicago Tribune Call: City News Co.
1 435 N. Michigan Ave. 
: ~~~~~\60611 232-3205 
·-------------------------------------· 
The Helsman Trophy of Notre Dame Football Coverage

I 
I 
I I I I I
1 
I 
I
I 
1 1 
I 1 I 
I 
I
I 
: 
Now entering our 8th yearI 
Notre Dame Football at its best -weekly during the football season and monthly during the off­season for just $29.95 ·a full 25% off the newsstand priceI 
Blue & Gold Illustrated 
offers an unconditional money back guarantee 




Burke course improves its playing atmosphere 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Student play always has been the top priority at Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Golf Course. That's not changing. 
But the course itself is on the move, as added funds and a little more attention should be providing students with better golfing and the school with more revenue from its 18-hole course in the near future. 
"We're doing some things to make it more enjoyable," said Sally Derengoski, who took the post of director of operations last year. 
Dale Getz began as course superintendent last year, and works with Derengoski on a daily basis under the authority of Dr. Tom Kelly of Non­Varsity Athletics. The Athletic Department began running the course two-and-a-half years ago under former Athletic Director Gene Corrigan. 
"Gene Corrigan decided we could make some major course improvements to accomplish two things," Derengoski said. "It gives the students a better golf course, and also makes the course a better revenue source. Hopefully we can attract more public golfers over the summer months, because public golfing is our main source of revenue." 
An $80,000 project to rebuild all the tees and implement a computer-controlled irrigation system was one of the first im­provements. 
"We started that a year ago," Getz noted. "There are 

POSTERS 
BACK PACKS 



~~~TRUHKS 
~m~~ ~ 

and ready made frames 1n the area
-

HANS -RINTZSCH 
Luggage Shop I Gifts 
UNIVERSITY PARK MA MISHAWAKA 
18 new tees in play this year, and automatic irrigation on the tees and greens. That's a big help. If you can't control water, you're going to have problems. Now we can do that by pushing a few buttons." 
The irrigation system has been a savior during the dry summer months. Members of the Athletic Department who played the course over the sum­mer said the course stayed in great shape. 
"We also relandscaped the No. 1 tee," Getz added. "Most golf courses will tell you that the first tee is always in the worst shape, because that's where traffic backs up the most. We've redesigned it so traffic is filtered around the tee area instead of over it." 
The sand traps were renovated over the summer, with new sand added and some enlargements made. Also in the the works is the replace­ment of hundreds of trees which have been lost to disease over the years. 
"Trees have been lost by the hundred without a major replanting," Getz said. "Last 
CARPET REMNANT SALE 
10%0FF 
EVERY CARPET REMNANT IN STOCK 
Over 700 Remnants to Choose From 

Delivery Available Prior Sales Excluded Sale Ends 9-30-88 


U"l\'t.SI1'r 
, ......_ M&U. 

FLOOR CENTER 
GRAPE ROAD, MISHA\VAKA PHONE: 277-9711 On Grape Road-· Just 2 Miles South Of Mall 
Mon.-Fri 9:00-8:30 Sat 9:00-5:30 Sun. 1:00-5:30 


Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Golf Course un-up to enhance student play. 
derwent Improvements and is still being beefed 
fall we planted 40 and 10 more in the spring. I'd like to plant 40-50 trees a year for at least five or 10 years. 
"There are so many things you can do with trees to make the course more strategic. We hope to make it more challeng­ing for the better golfer, with­out discouraging the novice or the student who hasn't played much by making it too difficult an experience. We feel we can make a course like that." 
A bridge is also in progress, over an area on the seventh fairway which collects most of the course's water. 
"It all starts with (University Vice President) Fr. (William) Beauchamp," Derengoski said. "He recog­nizes that, as a business ven­ture, this is a great opportunity. And when you can do something like that and also provide the students with a bet­ter service, it's worth putting some money into.'' 
The Pro Shop in Rockne Memorial also is being im­proved. The inventory has been increased "many times over," Derengoski said. 
Student passes are another effort to attract more students to the course. Fall passes are available in the Pro Shop for $25 each. 

-------~-­
" 
\/"" i 
0 ~\tv-

SEE [)ICk D[t1[) 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 


Irish
Dally Wear: 
Extended Wear: 
continued from page 20 
could provide instant contribu­
•Tinted 
tions for the Irish. Notre Dame was a combined 1-43 at those 
two weight classes last year. The Irish will try to improve
Dally or 
on a 1987 season that saw the
Soflmfte B or 
Bausch & Lomb 
team send a school-record six wrestlers to the NCAA Cham­pionships. 
--. 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
PRO SHOP AND ICE CREAM FOUNTAIN 
GOLF EQUIPMENT & SPORTSWEAR WITH DISTINCTIVE NOTRE DAME LOGOS 
SHIRTS BALLS UMBRELLAS HATS TOWELS GLOVES SWEATERS 
LOCATED "ON THE CURVE" 
IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
OPEN YEAR ROUND 

ORIENTATON WEEKEND HOURS 
Sports Briefs 
Three ND athletes were selected as GTECoSIDA Academic All-Americans. The Academic All-Americans include the baseball team's outfielder Dan Peltier, track team hammer thrower Tom Mick and the lacrosse team's attack man John Olmstead. 
-The Observer 
The ND women's tennis team will hold an organizational meeting Monday at 5:30p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion for anyone interested in trying out for the team. Further information may be obtained by con­tacting Head Coach Michele Gelfman at the Eck Pavilion (239-5149) -The Observer 
The ND baseballteamendeditsseason with a thrid-place finish in the Midwest Col­legiate Conference tournament, eventually won by Evansville. The Irish recorded a best­ever 39-22 record that included a school­record 16-game winning streak. Shortstop Pat Pesavento was drafted in the 11th round by the Toronto Blue Jays, but he elected to return to Notre Dame. -The Observer 
Andrea Bonny, a senior diver from Notre Dame last year, received the Cecil N. Coleman Medal of Honor annually awarded to the male and female student-athletes in the Midwest Collegiate Conference who have demonstrated outstanding achievement in academics, athletics and extra-curricular activities at their institutions. Bonny graduated with a 3.819 grade point average as a microbiology major. -The Observer 
The ND baseball team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the squad Monday at 10 p.m. in the Rolfs pool classroom. -The Observer 
CeCe Cahill was eliminated in the first round of the NCAA Tennis Tournament by Stanford's Kay Tittle. Cahill was the first Notre Dame player ever to qualify for the NCAA's, and she ended the season ranked 48th in the Volvo Tennis collegiate rankings. 
-The Observer 

coming off its best season ever, the squad will be facing an upgraded schedule after recording its best record ever. The Irish have replaced the Daytons and Villanovas that dotted last year's schedule with teams like Boston College, Mic­higan, Western Michigan and R.P.I. 
The Irish, who have scholar­ship players for the first time since the program was downgraded to club status for one year in 1983, also will have a larger seating capacity for home games this season accor­ding to second-year coach Ric Schafer. 
Baseball --Yet another team that is coming off its best season ever, the Irish recorded a school-record 16-game win­ning streak last year on its way to posting a 39-22 mark. Irish coach Pat Murphy did this with a team that was coming off con­secutive losing seasons. 
With a strong freshman class coming in, the Irish will begin fall drills in preparation for a 60-game schedule that includes perennial College World Series participants Miami and Texas. 
Men's and women's cross country --The men's team returns all its runners, includ­ing All-American Dan Garrett, from a squad that finished seventh in the nation last year. The team's schedule includes a home meet with Georgetown and a road meet with Southern California. Notre Dame also will host both the National Catholic Meet and the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Under new coach Tim Con­nolly, the women's team sports a schedule identical to the men's team. 
'(--Rocco's Pizza 
Welcome back students and parents 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" and a tradition with students 
Only a few blocks from campus Families welcome We serve the best in Italian and American Cuisine try us and You'll agree 
~37 St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 




__.._....----~ 



Million for grabs in charity contest 
Special to The Observer 
Golfers get a chance to win their share of a million dollar prize in the first annual Trustcorp Bank Million Dollar Hole-in-One Golf Contest Aug. 26-28. 
Trustcorp Bank is sponsor­ing the tournament to benefit residents of Saint Joseph's Res­idential Services, a member of the Holy Cross Health System. 
Any non-professional golfer at least 13 years or older can attend qualifying sessions from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Aug. 26-27 at Elbel, Erskine, Knollwood or Notre Dame's own Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
At these qualifiers, each gol­fer will pay $1 per ball with no limit on the amount of balls one can buy. The sessions will be held at each course's practice green, whose average range is approximately 90 yards. 
During the two days of qual­ifying, 10 players from each site for each day will be selec­ted to the 170-yard hole-in-one shootout at the Elbel course on Aug. 28. If one of the 80 contes­tants sinks a hole-in-one, he or she will evenly split a one mil­lion dollar, 20-year annuity with Saint Joseph's Residential Services. 
Aside from the potential mil­lion dollar top prize, numerous other awards will be made to the finalists coming closest to the pin. They include two Notre Dame season football tickets and three golf resort vacations by the Marriott Hotel and Ex­ecutive Travel, including one that will allow the winner and a guest to not only see the 1989 
U.S. Open at Oak Hill Country Club at Rochester, N.Y., but also play the course after the tournament. 
There also will be a variety of golf equipment prizes. Trophies will be awarded to qualifiers who shoot an ace on Aug. 26 and Aug. 27. 
"We're hopeful of establish­ing the Trustcorp Bank Million Dollar Hole-in-One Golf Con­test as an annual affair because it makes everyone who par­ticipates a winner," said Jim Basney, the event's general chairman. "The prizes are sub­stantial, with the real benefi­ciary being the patients we serve at Saint Joseph's eight 
residential  care  centers  in  
South Bend."  
Saint  Joseph's  Residential  

Services provides a network of services ranging from indepen­dent living facilities to skilled, long term nursing care. Special emphasis is placed on provid­ing a continuum of service to the elderly and physically dis­abled. In addition, Saint Joseph's Residential Services is the largest provider of ser­vices for institutionalized men­tally retarded and develop­mentally disabled persons in Saint Joseph County. 
Supporting sponsors of the contest include the Marriott Hiotel, Executive Travel, Burger King, WSBT, WNDU­TV and Paine Webber. 
1988 SCHEDULE 
J\tiiCHIGAN at Michigan State PURDUE STANFORD at Pittsburgh MIAMI AIR FORCE at Navy RICE PENN STATE at USC 



Riding the crest of contemporary crafts in America featuring the work of more than 70 artists and craftspeople from around the United States. 
• JEWELRY • HAND BLOWN GLASS • WOOD • POTIERY • ART fine art posters Tuesday thru Saturday-10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. 
Thursday 1111 8:00 p.m. 514 Lincolnway East Mishawaka 255-9191 


0 


• 
The Tl-65 Technical 
Analyst™Offers all the 
built-in functions of the 
11-60, plus a stopwatch 
/timer, eight physical con­
stants, decision program­
ming (if ... then) capabilities 
and 100 programming steps 
for repetitive calculations. 

The Tl-60 Advanced 
Scientific Features such built­
in functions as hexadecimal 
/octal coversions, integration 
using Simpson's rule, statistics 
(including linear regression), 
trend line analysis and metric to The Tl-95 PROCALC™ Our most powerful, top-of-the-line 
English conversions. There are advanced scientific features 8K RAM and a full range ofscientific, 
also 84 programming steps for mathematical and statistical functions. It uses redefinable function 
repetitive calculations. keys to provide easy access to 200 + functions with menu-like win-· dows and has a flexible file management system to conveniently store programs and data. The 11-95 offers optional accessories such 

SEPT. 10 Sept. 17 SEPT. 24 OCT. 1 Oct. 8 OCT. 15 OCT. 22 Oct. 29 NOV. 5 

n desi edits advanced scien:f:calculators to help rut science and engineerinl problems down to size. 
It takes more than an ordinary calculator to help make an extra­ordinary future scientist or engineer. 
lH0007 
as Solid State Software ™cartridges for Mathematics, Statistics, and Chemical Engineering, and 8K Constant MemoryTh1 cartridge, a 
portable printer and a cassette interface.  
11's advanced scientific calcula­ keys and simple keyboard layouts.  
tors-the 11-60, 11-65 and the  This helps you concentrate on real  
11-95 PROCALC-were designed  problem solving, instead ofsolving  
with all the right scientific  the mysteries of a complex  
mathematical and statistical func-,.  calculator.  
tions you'll need to get ahead in  With all the demands your ad­ 
school and in your career. These powerful calculators were carefully created to be easy to use. They feature large, color-coded  vanced courses place on you, you need the help of an advanced scientific calculator from 11. Copyright © 198811  TEXAS~ INSTRUMENTS  
TM Trademark ofTcxas Instruments Incorporated  

-~---------~----------------,------------~~-~------­
ND The Daily Crossword 
continued from page 1 
ACROSS 1 Kind of pear 

12:45 -1 :45 p.m. Introduction to student activities. (JACC) 
2 p.m. Meeting of freshmen considering the foreign study program. (JACC) 
5 Be furious 

2 p.m. Presentation of ROTC information. (Monogram Room, JACC) 
9 River to the 2-4:30 p.m. Open House, Center for Social Concerns. Rio Grande 3 p.m. Reception for Hispanic freshmen and their parents, faculty, and admi­14 Theater org. 15 Matures
nistrators. (Trustees' Room, Morris Inn) 
18 Related

3 p.m. Reception for Black freshman and their parents, faculty, and adminis­
maternally trators. (Donors' Room, Morris Inn) 17 King of 
3:30 -5 p.m. Informal mixers in residence halls. Students and parents invited. tragedy 18 Bonnet feature
5 -6:30 p.m. Dinner. Students. (South Dining Hall) 
19 Menu

7 p.m. Special Orientation for freshman women. Required attendance. 
20 Cla11lc villain (Washington Hall) 21 Donor 9 p.m. Predance entertainment and Graffiti Dance. (Stepan Center) 23 Mill Dinsmore
Monday, August 22 25 Can. prov. 
28 Take 28 Relayed 

8:30 a.m. -2 p.m. Enrollment according to alphabetical schedules. (Stepan Center) 
10:30 a.m.,2 p.m.,4 p.m. Alcohol Awareness Program. All freshmen must 
33 Wear awey

attend at least one of these sessions. (Washington Hall) 
34 Stage lights 

11 :15 a.m. -1 p.m. Lunch. Students. (North or South Dining Halls) 35 Prima donna 5 -6:30 p.m. Dinner. Students. (North or South Dining Halls) 
38 v..t expense 37 Downgrades

7 p.m. Student -conducted programs on the Honor Code. (All dormitories) 
40 Liquor 41 Yen 43 Wilder 44 An Aatalre 48 Practice 48 Costa

§.!.~-:!!pa~ a ry' s 
49 Br. award 50 Blouse

2 p.m. Bloom Where You're Planted for groups 1-33 (Haggar Parlor) 
51 Shows

3 p.m. Survival group meetings for groups 66-1 00 (Locations to be announced) 
graphically3 p.m. Making the Grade with Time to Play for groups 1-33 (Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall) 58 Musicians' 3 p.m. Bloom Where You're Planted for groups 34-65 (Haggar Parlor) locations 
59 Send back 80 Admonition 


4:15 p.m. Survival Leader Skits (Carroll Auditorium) 
5:15-6:30p.m. Dinner 
81 Spolia

Evening Activities with Notre Dame 
82 lt. city 83 Kind of

Monday, August 22 
ahoppe

9:30 a.m. Breakfast 84 Magnenl 
10:30 a.m. Registration for Freshmen and Survival Leaders (Lower level, LeMans Hall) 85 Bella 
:30 a.m.-Noon Schedule changes for last names A-M (121 LeMans Hall) 
a.m. Writing Proficiency Exam (qualifying students will be notified) 
:30 a.m. -1:15 p.m. Lunch -4:30p.m. Schedule changes for last names N-Z (121 LeMans Hall) 
p.m. 
Catch the Spirit for groups 1-33 (Chapel, Holy Cross) 

p.m. 
Catch the Spirit for groups 34-65 (Chapel, Holy Cross) Catch the Spirit for groups 66-100 (chapel, Holy Cross) 

p.m. 
International Student Organization (Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall) 4:45-6 p.m. Dinner 6 p.m. Survival Group meetings (Locations will be announced) 


Comics 
Bloom County 
88 Songs 87 North Sea feeder 
DOWN 
1 "South Pacific" setting 
2 Draft 
cla11lflcatlon 3 Old vehicle 4 Seng 

Berke Breathed 

Calvin and Hobbes 
LOOK t>.\ 01\0, C~I..MI..~ £t>.TING 
~IS DINNER AS 
IF 1'101t\II'IG 
Wt-.5 WRoNG. 
Meet all your class needs by purchasing your textbooks (used I new) for less at 
Pandora's Books 
808 Howard St I Notre Dame Ave 233-2342, 7 days I week 10-5:30 
Save $$ at the hest_in hooks since 1972. 
Bill Watterson 
1-\£'5 GOIN(, 10 j1J5T SIT 
&!illn~u
n.IERE Ef\T\NG t>.\'\D LET ME S"\E'fl IN M~ OWN GUIll. 
l:o'H> nl 
1-\£ I=lGUR£S SOONER OR 
I OlD tTl
\.AIER l'Ll. CRf..CK. 
I'M SORRY! 
I DIOH'T 
MEM-tlOI! 

gods 27 Gr. Island 28 Disposed (to) 39 Rani raiment 29 Entr' -42 Seamstress' 30 Orders job 31 Small egg 45 Show 32 Titles 47 Ebbs 34 Actor Leon 48 Adhesives 38 Wading 50 Barrie heroine 
bird 51 Opiate 
The Far Side 
-
:S: 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 5 Harvey e.g. 8 See eye to 
eye 7 Mother lode 8 Salinger 
girl 9 Nuts 10 Played the 
part of 11 Dray 12 Premlnger 13 Soothsayer 22 "A Chorus 
Line" 
producer 24 Hurried 28 Scand. race of 52 Make over 53 Ugandan 


tyrant 54 Matinee ­55 "Nana" author 57 Sound 58 Name In 
lights 
Gary Larson 


"That's a lie, Morty! ... Mom says you might have got the brains In the family, but I got the looks!" 
---Conducive----
Qiverside North Apartments 1671 Qiverside Drive 
(  \\) l  &:>ulh Bend '233-2212  
1bedroom w/den  
slarlin8 at $460.00  


PREGNANI 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIElY" 
... 


~---~-~~--------­
Sports
page 20 
Saturday, August 20, 1988 

Speed of freshman class impresses Holtz 
Brown, Ismail 'rocketing' up the Irish depth chart 
By MARTY STRASEN the returning split ends are no Sports Editor longer returning. Bobby Carpenter and Pierre Martin 
If Notre Dame head coach were declared academically Lou Holtz has one problem ineligible and have withdrawn evaluating the freshmen on his from the University. football team, it's trying to That caused the coaching keep his eyes on them. staff to move Ismail from tail­
These guys can run. back to split end on the first And after more than a week day of practice, and the of trying to bring them into speedster already is running 
-
focus on the practice field, patterns with the first team. Holtz is pleased with what he's "The speed doesn't mean been able to see from the class anything if you can't catch the of 1992. ball," said Ismail, who was 
"The freshman are an awful used exclusively as a tailback good group," Holtz said of the at Meyers High School. "I still bunch many called the best have to learn the little things, recruiting class in Notre Dame like the techniques that people history when it was announced tend to overlook. " in the winter. "It's difficult to While a player of Ismail's tell who can make contribu­speed might be expected to tions at this point, but several return kicks, he actually is have a chance." looking forward to working 
But speed is one thing you with another part of the special can evaluate early in the prac­teams. tice schedule, and Holtz said "I want to block punts, to tell five freshmen ran the 40-yard you the truth. They put me at dash in under 4.5 seconds in that position and I feel really drills. Split end Raghib "Rock­comfortable with it." et" Ismail from Wilkes-Barre, Another freshman expected Pa., was clocked at 4.28. to earn his share of time is tight 
"That was on artificial turf end Derek Brown from Merritt 
and it wasn't timed electroni­Island, Fla., who was named The Observer I Rob Regovich cally, so that's a bit deceiving," Parade Magazine's Offensive Tony Brooks (40) is one of a bumper crop of the nation by The Sporting News. Mike Holtz said. "But he's sure got Player of the Year as a prep runners that will be seen this fall coming out of Stonebreaker (42) returns to the defense after a 
some speed. senior. Brown works with the 
an offensive backfield that was called the best In year of academic ineligibility.
"They're not track men, second team, behind sopho­either. They're football players more Frank Jacobs. little things you don't worry on offense: tailbacks Rusty Shawn Davis, Rod Smith and 
with a lot of speed. But they've "I'm just like the rest of the about in high school, like my Setzer and Kenny Spears, quar-Tony Smith. On defense: also got a long way to go." freshmen," Brown said. "I'm steps and my technique. It's a terback George Poorman, tackles Bernard Mannelly and 
Ismail has made great prog­starting at the bottom and lot more intense here than in tackles Lindsay Knapp, Justin Marc DeManigold, defensive ress up the depth chart trying to work my way to the high school." Hall and Mirko Jurkovic, guard already, partly because two of top. I've been working on the Other top freshmen include, Gene McGuire and split ends see FROSH, page 14 
NO's 'other sports' upgrade squads, schedules 
Special to The Observer teams that made last year's 32-punter and Mark Stevenson has 6-5 Daimon Sweet of Notre Dame's schedule in­team NCAA tournament, in­
transferred to Duquesne. Beaumont, Tex., and 6-11 cen-eludes five of last year's NCAAAlthough most of you prob­cluding nine of last year's top The Irish also will be without ter Keith Tower of Coraopolis, Tournament teams
ably did not growing up hearing 14 teams according to the final assistant coach John Shumate, Pa. Tennessee, James Madison,stories about the legendary ex­AVCA poll. 
who has left Notre Dame to The freshmen will get expe-Old Dominion, Syracuse andploits of these teams, there are Tournament teams coming take the head coaching position rienced in a hurry with Notre Virginia.
indeed many other sports on to Notre Dame include last at Southern Methodist. Former Dame facing a home schedule Wrestling --Coach Franthis campus besides football. year's NCAA runner-up Stan­Lehigh head coach Fran 
that includes Indiana, Southern McCann has aided his quest toIn fact, many of these pro­ford, Western Michigan, Ne­McCaffery will replace Methodist, Syracuse, Temple, make Notre Dame's squad one 
grams are either in the up-and­braska, Louisiana State and Shumate. Duke and Louisville. of the nation's elite by engine-coming stage or are coming off Penn State. Notre Dame will But Notre Dame coach Dig­Women's basketball --ering a major recruiting coup. 
their best seasons ever, as can go on the road to face 1986 na­ger Phelps has put together one Second-year coach Muffet The top individual wrestlersbe seen by these short previews tional champion Pacific and of his best recruiting classes McGraw will have two new as-from the states of Iowa andof teams that will be in action 1987 Final Four participant 
ever. The standout of this sistant coaches on her staff as Oklahoma both have signed ,..-·· during the first semester. Texas. bumper crop is 6-9 forward her team tries to improve on with Notre Dame. 
Volleyball --Coming off con­
LaPhonso Ellis of East St. last year's 20-8 season. Tim Anderson, a 126-pounder
secutive 30-win seasons which Men's basketball --The Irish Louis, Ill. Other freshmen in­Former Ohio State player from West Des Moines, Iowa,still resulted in no post-season will not have a single senior clude 6-2 guard and three-point Yvette Angel and former Vir-and heavyweight Chuckinvitations, the squad has sig­scholarship player on their specialist Keith Adkins of ginia Commonwealth assistant Weaver of Midwest City, Okla., 
nificantly upgraded its roster as Sean Conner is trying Paintsville, Ky., 6-0 guard El­David Glass will join McGraw schedule. The Irish will play 13 to make the football team as a mer Bennett of Houston, Tex., on the sidelines. see IRISH, page 17 

The Easy Way to Keep in Touch 
------~------------_,

Keep informed about your children, their teachers, the Notre Dame To subscribe now pleasefootball and basketball teams, and the changing campus. While you are send $40 for the entire away, let The Observer bring Notre Dame and Saint Mary's home to you. 
school year or $25 forThe Observer staff of more than-250 students will continue to cover all of one semester to: 

the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's news every day. Subscribe now and you'll be sure to stay informed during Notre Dame's 
The Observer 

drive to the national championship and through Father Malloy's second year 
P.O. Box Q 

as president. 
Notr~ Dame, IN 
46556 





