....----------------­
Another frosty day
IACCENT: Christmas dinner Mostly cloudy and cold 
today. High near 30. Partly 
cloudy and cold tonight. Low
IVIEWPOINT: Our wasteful bureaucracy in the lower 20s. 

U.N. condemns 

U.S. denial of Arafat visa 
Associated Press Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to report back 
UNITED NATIONS--The on the U.S. response today. General Assembly on Wednes­But Secretary of State day overwhelmingly deplored George Shultz declared earlier the U.S. denial of a visa for Wednesday that the United Yasser Arafat, the first step States would not reverse its towards a protest meeting in decision, that Arafat be barred Geneva to hear the PLO chair­because he condones and en­man next month. courages terrorism. 
The vote in the 159-member U.S. Ambassador Herbert assembly was 151-2. The United Okun, the acting U.N. repre­States and Israel voted against sentative, told the . assembly the resolution. Britain that the U.S. government "does abstained. Other nations were not agree with the tone or sub­absent. stance of the resolution and 
Arab diplomats, who spon­voted against it. ... sored the resolution, said later "The denial of a visa to Mr that they planned to move Arafat is fully consistent with swiftly to introduce another the Headquarters Agreement resolution shifting the General between the United States and Assembly to Geneva in mid­the United Nations and this in­December to hear Arafat speak cludes our right to protect our on the declaration of an inde­national security," Okun said. pendent Palestinian state. 
Junior Jozef Henriquez, a resident of Grace Hall, LaFortune while a miniature Santa oversees. The resolution adopted Wed-See ARAFAT, page 6 diligently wraps boxes to put under a tree in nesday requested U.N. 

U.S. broadcasts 'loud and· clear' in U.S.S.R. 
Associated Press it as Secretary of State George been," said Charles Wick, U.S. Reagan and President-elect operates independently of Shultz said in a broadcast to Information Agency director. George Bush next week in New Radio Liberty and Radio Free 
WASHINGTON--The Krem­Europe Wednesday morning York. Europe. lin has shut down thousands of that radio jamming was one Wick said he and other U.S. The jamming shutoff means "The cessation of jammingbroadcast jamming devices, area where progress was still officials have raised the issue that millions of Eastern represents a significant step on allowing Radio Liberty and needed with the Soviets. of jamming, which is illegal un­European and Soviet citizens the part of the Soviet govern­Radio Free Europe to be heard Soviet jamming 'of Ger­der international agreements, will hear American and other ment toward the free flow of "loud and clear" across the So­many's Deutsche Wella and several times with the Soviets-­Western news and analysis in information," said Gene Pell, viet Union and most of Eastern KOL Israel also stopped Tues­most recently in a September their own languages of events president of Radio Liberty,Europe for the first time in 38 day, officials said. visit by U.S. broadcasting offi­in the Soviet bloc. Voice of which is a congressionally years, government officials "It's another marker in the cials to Moscow. America, which has not been funded operation based in said Wednesday. Soviet march toward trying to He said the move was likely jammed anywhere except in Munich, West Germany. Pell 
The Soviet action came so be an acceptable citizen of the timed to coincide with the · Mghanistan since May 1987, said that it was a strong signal quickly that radio engineers world community as against meeting of Soviet leader Mik­focuses more broadly on U.S. 
See RADIO, page 6
were only becoming aware of the pariah that they have hail Gorbachev with President and world affairs. VOA 

Broken bolts, weather threaten Thursday launch 
Associated Press The bolts are two of 10 that secure a 24-by-18-inch access 
CAPE CANAVERAL-cover on the right side of the Launch pad technicians dis­shuttle's nose. The access covered two broken bolts on At­plate, which is covered by 14 of lantis' nose Wednesday, a prob­the shuttle's heat protection lem that could delay a tiles, is normally removed Thursday launch of the before flight to fuel the tank for shuttle's top-secret mission the steering rockets the shuttle even if a predicted storm uses while in orbit. doesn't force postponement. The problem occurred as 
Much depended on a launch­workmen placed the cover. eve assessment of both prob­Two of the bolts would not lems. If the decision were made tighten, and NASA decided to to be ready for a Thursday glue the cover in place with morning launch, crews would special epoxy. It would be eve­
The Observer I Heleni KOIW8k

begin pouring a half-million ning before it was known whe­gallons of fuel into the shuttle's ther the bonding worked. 


huge external tank before mid­Christie Austin, a junior at Saint Mary's, takes time class in Madeleva Hall to begin.
See SHUTTLE, page 6

night. to catch a few z's while waiting for her history 

page 2 
IN BRIEF 
I 
Madame Tussaud's Waxworks in London is giving Michael D"ukakis a lesson in how fleeting fame can be. A wax image of the Democratic presidential candidate will be taken down Dec. 9 after the shortest exhibition in the museum's 218-year history, officials said Wednesday. The Dukakis statue went on display next to a statue of President-elect George Bush on Oct. 31, when Madame Tussaud's felt the election was too close to call. 
Headless woman, Mary Ann Beauregard, 26, of Greenwich will be among the nearly 600 degree candidates at the first fall undergraduate commencement at Central Connecticut State University on Saturday. Beauregard, who once worked as "Headless Helga" in a carnival sides­how in Denver, Colo., will receive a bachelor's degree in a self-designed major, peace studies. To prove she has a good head on her shoulders these days, Beauregard is graduating summa cum laude, with a 3.9 grade point average on a 4.0 scale. 
OF INTEREST 
Christmas Around the World presents sleigh rides and a marshmallow roast tonight. Sleigh rides start at 8 
p.m. in front of Washington Hall, and the marshmallow roast begins at 9 p.m. in LaFortune. Everything is free. 
--The Observer 
SUB Special Events commission meets tonight at 6 
p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaForune. Winter Carnival and St. Patrick's Day plans will be discussed. New members welcome. --The Observer ~ 
Last Plane Out, a movie concerning Nicaragua's Sandinista government will be shown at 7 p.m. in Farley Hall's Pop Farley Lounge. A discussion will follow led by Prof. LeMay. All are invited to atttend. -The Observer 
Legal Clinic for the Homeless hosts a benefit dinner at 6 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room at the South Dining Hall. Robert Hayes of the National Coalition for the Home­less will speak on"Advocating on Behalf of the Homeless." 
--The Observer 
Non-VIolence Seminar information night will be held at 7 p.m. tonight at the Center for Social Concerns. Stu­dents will spend six days in Nevada examining a non­violent campaign over spring break. --The Observer 
An African Lunch is served today at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. This is the last Hospitality Lunch for the Fall Semester. --The Obser­ver 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

-~e-~---:-~·r-­
--=-l.-=1-1 -~£~vt: ---
Deaign Editor . .  .. .... Annette Rowland  Accent Editor  ........... Trlsha Chambers  
Deaign A11iltant .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Beth Peterson  Accent Cop11 Editor.. Michelle Berninger  
......................................... Chris Labaree  Accent Deaigner.  .. .. Mike Conway  
TJipeaellera... .. Bernard Brennlnkmeyer  TIJpiat ..........n ...... ...... ~ ........ Will Zamer  
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ......Andy Schlidt  ........................................ Diane Bradley  
Newa Editor.  .. ......... Kendra Morrill  ND Da11 Editor .....  Margaret McCloskey  
Cop11 Editor ...................... Paul Jackson  SMC Da11 Editor  ...... Maura Reidy  
Sparta CoPII Editor ......... Molly Mahoney  Photographer..  .. .. Heleni Korwek  
Viewpoint CopJI Editor .. Ann HebeiUitreit  
Viewpoint LaJioul.. ............. Laura Manzi  •  

1111 0...... (USPS 599 2-4000) is publilbed Monday throuah Friday except durina cum and vacation pcriocb. n. ~is publisbed by the students or the Univenlty or Notre o.me and Saint Mary's Collqe. Sublcriptionsmay be purc:hu­ed r« S40 per year (W per semater) by writina n. ~.P.O. BoK Q, Nocre o.me, ladiua 46$56. 
n.0...... is a member or n. ~rn.. All reproduction riahts ue .---1. 

~-------,
-------------------~--~---­
The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 



Dream of the inevitab~e-­Future School 
Last night, I had a dream. 
It was the dream of the inevitable. The dream of the ultimate aftermath of the political foibles of the present, the fallout from cutbacks in fun­ding, the sacrifice of principles to the gods of commercialism. 
It was the dream of the future. It was not my school, but Everyschool. 
My dream carried me down a twelve-lane, two-story highway, through the golden double arches of "Midwest University." A computer­ized neon sign at the entrance flashed, "30 mil­lion students educated." 
I wandered past the artificial lakes and sur­realistic sculptures toward the high-rise chrome towers. Although the automatic temperature-modulated environment was set at precisely 76 degrees, I felt a sudden chill. I was noticeably out of place among the throngs of modern students, clad in plastic and velcro, drifting to and from the residence halls. But what had formerly been called "dorms" were now referred to as "villages." 
I paused in front of Associated Industries' New Generation Village 5. (All villages had cor­porate sponsors.) 
"Don't just stand there!" a voice suddenly thundered at me. "Come up and meet the other new Wednesdays!" 
"What?" I replied. 
"Are you caught in a time warp, or what? Wednesdays! New student day. Every week, when one group graduates into the job market, we welcome their replacement group into the village." 
"Oh, of course." 
"Have you picked out your opposite-mate yet?" "Huh?" I stared at him blankly. "Your co-habitant! God, where are you from? 
Iowa, or someplace? Have you been asleep for thirty years? Let me explain how all this works...." 
"Everything's unisex, you know? We're al­most completely integrated here. Each floor is subdivided into social-sexual preferences." 
"This unit's totally self-sufficient. The steroid vendor's broke, but The Pill machine and the dope dispenser are just fine." 
"Tomorrow noon, when the Robo-maid awakens you, you'll have to register for expe­riences over at the computing center. You need twenty experiences to graduate, or you could be stuck here for a year." 
"Let me give you a few clues. Stick with the 
BUY 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. 
If yQu have any, CQme tQ Qur Qfflces
OBSERVER 
and start wQrklng Qn yQur newspaper.
ClASSIFIEDS 
1~0~ WOOL I ~SWEATERS-I 
PAsSAGE IS BAtK-1 
I \\ ~ I 
IFishermaris Heavy and~eight Sw~ 
I ~stYle!{ &: colors I
I I
BAJA SHIRTS

I Lafortune's~d~n~ter 1 I Roo11_1 ~08 "' I
I 1
ov. 28-Dec 2 
I 9-5 " I



I . I
Che<;ks, Mastercard, & Visa\S!pted 
------~----------------­
Michelle 
A
Dall 
Assistant News Editor ~ 
f1 t-( 
entrepreneurial curriculum. And stay away from that live stuff. Ten minutes is long enough to sit through a video. Besides, you never know-­those real profs can be weird. Keep in control." 
"Get all the self-grading classes you can. And forget about the books. Ultra Cliff is all you need. Or maybe a few neo-CDs. My roommate, Abdul-Sly, doesn't even have a class; he just hangs around here and audits on the cable sys­tem. What are you majoring in?" 
"Well, I was thinking about Business ...." 
"Hey, great-don't pass up Beginning Corpor­ate Takeover or Insider Trading for Freshmen. I've got two Discreet Embezzling seminars that are pretty cool, and a Glitz in America elective that focuses on practical application." 
"Uh, right. Listen, is there someplace around here I can get a bite to eat?" 
"Yeah, the vendomatics are over there, past the Liposuction Center and the Sean Penn statue. They're all salt, sugar and cholesterol free, of course." 
"Of course." 
"Well, I gotta run now. President Jackson's live tonight down at the Iacocca Monument." "No way! You mean Jesse finally made it?" "Boy, you ARE weird! I mean Michael, of 
course..'' 


Thursday, December 1 , 1988 
The Observer 

Parliament hands reforms to Kremlin 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The president of Estonia, the republic whose declaration of sovereignty was quashed, told the Soviet parli­ament Wednesday that no poli­tical system suits all parts of this vast nation, "so we have developed our own." 
Arnold Ruutel also com­plained about the official media, which criticized Es­tonia's actions without publish­ing details about them. "We deplore the lack of objective in­formation in the mass media, which can only make the situa­tion more tense," he declared. 
After two days of debate, a new experience for its mem­bers, the Supreme Soviet sent a plan for restructuring the government back to the Krem­lin leadership for decisions on dozens of suggested amend­ments. 
Until recently, the national legislature merely approved actions already taken by the leadership, without debate or dissent. This time the Supreme Soviet heard 37 of its members criticize and propose changes in the plan submitted by Mik­hail Gorbachev, the president and Communist Party chief. 
On Wednesday, the 1,500­member chamber asked the Presidium and two committees to decide which suggestions to include in a final version to be submitted for a vote Thursday. The Presidium of the Supreme Soviet is the nation's highest executive body and Gorbachev is its chairman. 
Tass, the official news agency, said the two par­liamentary committees met Wednesday night, but it did not report details. 
In Wednesday's debate, deputies said the reform plan raises the possibility that a rep­resentative could be elected to more than one seat in the new national Congress. 
Gorbachev says his compre­hensive reform of the political and electoral system, which in­cludes more than 100 pieces of legislation, will help make the Soviet Union a society ruled by law rather than central dicta­tion. 
Estonia came under repeated attack by delegates for the declaration by its legislature two weeks ago that the tiny Baltic republic is "sovereign" in all but defense and foreign affairs and has the right to veto Soviet laws. 
The Presidium responded by nullifying the declaration last Saturday. 
Deputies leaned forward in their seats when Ruutel took the podium Wednesday, but he neither apologized nor fought back. He did not mention that several Estonian leaders have indicated they would ignore the Presidium order. 
He said his republic prefers its own political structure to one devised in Moscow, and told the delegates: "It is impossible to find an optimum (system) for all regions of the country, so we have developed our own." 

l
The Observer I Heleni Korwek

ND Law? 1 
1 
j
Well, it's a court room, but not a trial. The Grace three debaters, from left, are Marshall Armintor, Hall Debate Championships took place Wednesday Joe Clair and Tom Russell. 
1 
at 9 p.m. in the Law School Court Room. The 



House makes history by electing first co-speakers 
Associated Press speakers by unanimous voice traveled by, and that will make 
votes in a House with an un­all the difference," he said. 
INDIANAPOLIS-The In­precedented 50-50 split between "I'm convinced the system will diana House made history the two political parties. work. Wednesday by electing co­The two men, who negotiated "We have now fully speakers for the first time and the power-sharing agreement entrusted the authority, re­adopting a special agreement over two days last week, jointly sponsibility and power to the that redistributes many of the clutched the House gavel and members of the House," he 


FIESTA BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
4 98 
Includes roundtrip air. 
S hotel. rental car and more. See details in large ad elsewhere in this issue. Gameticketnatinch·ded. 
Premier PasSports 
The Official Travel Agency of the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers 
speaker's powers to the cham­
Estonia would prefer to ber's 100 members. retain its current legislature Democrat Michael Phillips rather than exchange it for a of Boonville and Republican contemplated Congress of Paul Mannweiler of In­People's Deputies, Ruutel said. dianapolis were named co-
Knights ofthe Castle 
Men's HairstylinCJ 
student $8.50 complete style 

MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-l691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
raised it aloft as the member­ship stood cheering and ap­plauding. 
"This is a historic occasion, one in which we all can take a great deal of pride," said Mane nweiler, who presided alone as 
House  speaker  the  last  two  
years.  
The  two  men  will  preside  

over the chamber on alternate days. Phillips went first, wield­ing the gavel after the speaker election on Wednesday. 
The House minority leader for the last 12 years, Phillips quoted the poet Robert Frost in a speech urging "conciliation, said. 
The co-speaker arrangement and a series of rules changes were negotiated after the House tried unsuccessfully for two days last week to elect a speaker. The unprecedented House deadlock came after Democrats picked up two seats in the Nov. 8 election. 
After partisan bickering last week, House members showed unusual bipartisan joy in ratifying the agreement Wed­nesday. 
Mannweiler placed Phillips' name in nomination, and he was elected by a voice vote. Greeted by a standing ovation, Phillips then took the oath of office from Chief Justice Ran­dall Shepard. 
After assuming the speaker's chair, Phillips then nominated Mannweiler for Republican speaker. The chamber as­sented, again by a voice vote 
followed  by  handshakes  and  
prolonged applause.  
Earlier,  the  members  ac­ 

cepted the six-page resolution that defines each party's roles in the reorganized House. 
Under the agreement, each committee will have Republi­can and Democratic co­chairmen and equal member­ship from each party. 
The GOP speaker will ap­point committee members from his party and assign Republican-authored bills to committee. The Democratic 
speaker will serve the same function for his party. 
In other action, the House ap­proved creation of two new standing committees, one on constitutional law and the other on family and youth issues. 
The action raises the number 


Spring Break Seminar 
SPECIAL TOPIC 
NON-VIOLENCE 
For six days, March 4-10, in Nevada, study non-violence at the site of the desert campaign to end nuclear testing. 
Information night Thursday Dec. 1,1988 7:00pm Center for Social Concerns Michael Affleck X7943 
~~z.=-=~~~:::::.::::::::~.c:..::...:::::.L:.....e::.iiiO::...~~:::::::~~::;.::::=..:::::....£:-:..L~~:.....::::...::::...:::::::.;;:=::::..::=:.....u:.L.c::oo~~:::-.=:::...;::::::::::....:::.::......:::::....~:a.. of House committees to 28. 
-----------~ ~---,
-~ 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1988 

ICEBERG DEBATES NOTRE DAME'S FIRST ANNUAL CAMPUS WIDE DEBATE SERIES 
SPONSORED BY Student Government and Center for Social Concerns 





SO COOL! 
I
it 

Represent your hall in a campus-wide debate series between undergraduates on social justice issues. 
Prizes: 
*$500 for the winning hall, individual prizes for team *$250 for first runner-up hall, individual prizes for team *individual prizes for consoJation round winners *a traveling trophy for the winning hall *various prizes to be awarded on individual merit 


Teams: 
Each hall may sponsor a four-member debate team. At least two team members must be residents of the hall. The remaining team members may be drawn from the ND undergraduate population at large. At least twenty-six teams representing each residence hall and the off -campus population will compete during the month of February within a structured debate setting similar to that of the Grace Hall Debates. Faculty members will be invited to ac as judges, and graduate students will serve as team advisers. 
CONTACT YOUR HALL PRESIDENT 
DEADLINE FRIDAY DECEMBER 9 
CHAIRMAN: Joseph McKenna, STANDING COMMITTEE: James Doerfler, Therese Hardart, Cindy Petrites, Maeve O'Donovan, John Hamill, CONSULTANT COMMITTEE: Robert W. Williamson, Kerry M. Temple, Rev. Gerald Lardner, Stephen Fredman, Victor J. Krebs, Leslie Griffin, Thomas V. Morris, Frank J. Bonello, George Lopez, Michael Affleck, Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., 
~-------­

Thursday, December 1, 1988 The Observer 
pageS 

SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, NOV. 21 5::35 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported 
I:45 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his wallet from outside a the burglary of a metal snack stand from raquetball court in the JACC sometime inside the football stadium between noon and between 8 and 9 p.m. on 11/21. 
3:30 p.m. 6:40 a.m. A visitor reported the theft of 
I:50 p.m. Several Notre Dame students the license plate from his truck while parked were issued "No Contractual Interest" forms in the B-16 Lot sometime between 5:00p.m. for attempting to sell football tickets at a on 11/20 and 2:00p.m. on 11/21. price greater than face value on 11/19 I :50 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall between 8:00 a.m. and noon. reported damage 10 the hood and roof of her 
7:30 p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall vehicle while parked in the D-2 Lot sometime reported the theft of moccasins sometime last week. Amount of damage is unknown. between 111/7 and 11/21. The value is 9:40 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported estimated at $48.00. the theft of a license plate from his vehicle 
5:45 p.m. A resident of Flanner ·Hall while parked in the D-2 Lot between noon reported that his car had been struck while and 6:15p.m. Estimated value of the plate is parked in D-2 lot sometime between the $15.75. hours of II :00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Damage 8:15 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported estimates unknown. that he struck a deer while driving on U.S. 
5:00 p.m A resident of Pasquerilla East 31/33 north of St. Mary's Road about II :00 reported the theft of identification cards from p.m on 11/21. Damage 10 the vehicle is her bookbag while left unattended on the estimated at $350.00. second floor of Hesburgh Library sometime 5:00p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reponed after II :00 a.m. on 11/17. the theft of his leather jacket from his dorm 
8:45p.m. A Grace Hall resident reponed the sometime after 7 p.m. on 11/21. The jacket's theft of his bookbag from the lobby of South value is unknown. Dining Hall sometime between the hours of 
12:20 and I: I 0 p.m. Estimated loss -­WEDNESDAY, NOV.23 $98.00. II: 10 a.m. An off-campus student reported that his vehicle was hit while parked in the TUESDAY, NOV. 22 C-1 Lot between 10 and 10:30 a.m. The 
5:14a.m. A St. Edward's Hall resident amount of damage is U•1known. reponed the theft of his coat and its contents I :00 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident from the main lobby of LaFortune between reported the theft of his license plate from his 
12:30 and 2:00 am. vehicle while parked in the D-1 Lot. The

1-----------------------------· 
Bask in the sun while cheering  
the Irish to =#=1  
at  
The Best western Thunderbird Inn  
in Scottsdale, AZ  --­ 
All 2-room suites with wet bar, refrigerator, 2  
T.V.'s, 2 phones, and available microwave  
oven. heated pool and spa.  1·  
CALL 1-aoo-334-19n  I 1  

------------~----------------1 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
DON'T PAY 1~ FOR YOUR KAPLAN COURSE. YOURS CAN BE FREE! REALLY. GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, NCLEX, 
GRE, BAR REVIEW & more. KAPLAN. THE WORLD'S LEADER IN TEST PREP. CALL FOR INFORMATION NOW! Kaplan Educational Center 
1 7 1 7 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
estimated value of the missing plate is 
White House gives
$40.00. 
4:12 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reponed theft of license from his vehicle while parked in Green Field between 10 p.m. on 11/21 and noon on 11/23. The missing plate's 

position on 
value is unknown. 
9:06 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travelling 46 mph in a posted 25 mph zone 

classified material
on Juniper Road. 
Crime of 

Associated Press "Now, it's up to the judge to decide what to do next," said
the Week 
WASHINGTON-The White the source. 
The CRIME OF THE WEEK is the theft of 
House has told the chief Iran­The official would not dis­
money from three student offices in 
Contra prosecutor that it op­close the volume of information
LaFortune Student Center. Security reports indicated that an unknown person(s) entered 
poses releasing certain classi­the White House was seeking
student offices in LaFortune sometime 
fied information during Oliver to block, or what steps the ad­
between I p.m. on Friday, Sept. 16 and 3 
p.m. on Monday, Sept. 19, 1988 and 
North's trial because of na­ministration might take. He 
removed cash from a cash box in a desk 
tional security concerns, a said the White House position
drawer. No force was used to enter these offices and nothing of value was taken. 
senior Reagan administration was stated to independent
Crime Stoppers wants to know who took 
official said Wednesday. counsel Lawrence Walsh "ear­
this money and will pay a cash reward of up to $300 for information leading to the 
The official, who spoke on lier this week." 
apprehension of the thief. If you any 
grounds he not be identified, The decision to try to with­
information about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. 
said that this, in effect, was hold an unspecified number of 
You don't have 10 give your name and you'll 
President Reagan's response documents, the official said,
be eligible for a cash reward. 
to U.S. district Judge Gerhard was based on "national secur­Gesell's recent challenge to ity grounds" --and was not an spell out his position on secrets attempt to help North scuttle
The 

that might be disclosed if the his prosecution. case goes to trial, possibly in Asked on Nov. 21 whether he
Observer 
late January. was moving toward a decision ~;;;;;;;;;;~;;~;H;;;H;w;~~...~H-4,_..~,_..~,.,..,.....~ to pardon his former National 
Security Council aide, Reagan replied, "No, and I don't think it would be any time to make such a decision while it's still before the courts." 
The White House position was made known as Gesell began closed hearings on some of the classified documents in the case. 
Gesell conducted the secret hearing to consider the former presidential aide's objections to deleting sensitive references from 350 classified documents that Walsh wants to use as evidence. 
North objects to virtually all of the proposed deletions, ar­

DENNYS, '\12 MILE N.Pfllti OF CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. 
guing the references to 
countries, foreign officials and 

IS OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS" 
U.S. intelligence agents are

T-SHIRT GIVE ~.WAY. 
necessary to defend charges that he conspired to divert more than $14 million in U.S.­Iran arms-sale profits to the 

FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO DENNYS 
WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 


Something worth studying. 
(t  
Atlanta Bloomington/Normal  Kansas City Las Vegas  Philadelphia Phoenix  
Boston  Madison  Pittsburgh  
Champaign/Urbana  Memphis  Rockford, IL  
Chicago (Midway)  Miami  StCroix  
Cleveland  Milwaukee  Sl Petersburg (Efl.12117/88)  
Columbus  MplsJSl Paul  StThomas  
Dallas/Fl Worth  Moline  Sarasota  
Denver  Nassau  Springfield, IL  
Des Moines  New Orleans  Tampa  
Dubuque  New York (LaGuardia)  Traverse City  
Fl Lauderdale  Omaha  Washington, DC (National)  
R.Myers  Orlando  Waterloo  
Green Bay  Oshkosh (Efi.10/30t88)  West Palm Beach  
Jacksonville  Peoria  

Physics equations and Freudian principles are nice, but if you really want to get somewhere, call Midway Airlines~ 
Midway can take you home or on vacation on an inexpensive and convenient flight. Just hop the Midway Connection® to Chicago Midway Airport and connect to over 50 U.S. cities, plus the Bahamas and Virgin Islands. 
So study the above information. Then call Midway at 1-800-621-5700, or call a travel agent. 
-

-------~. ~~-~~ 
pageS The Observer 

Associated Press 

Space Shuttle Commander Robert "Hoot" Gibson 27 head for the launch pad. Atlantis is scheduled to "There is a possibility that a 
.:.;w;.::a~ve:;.:s:.;a:;.:s:.;h~e:.;a:;.;n.;:d:.;t,;.:.he~cr~e.;.;w..;o;.;.f.;S;.:;.P;:;ac:;;e;.;S:;,;h.;.;;u;,;;tt.;,;le~M;.;;i;;;ss;;;io;;,n.;......;;li;;.;ft..;o;;.;ff..;to;.;d;;;a~y..;;a;;,;,t.-9..:3;o;.O..;;a;;;.m.;.;.;...--------­
Some officials suggested the are being heard loud and limited jamming might be the clear," said Pell. 
result of a mix-up between the He cautioned, however, that

Radio 
front will come through and things will clear out," said Capt. Tom Strange, an Air Force weatherman. "There is 
Thursday, December 1, 1988 

eral Assembly in 1974, caused an international storm. Undersecretary-General Joseph Verner Reed said the 
U.N. Secretariat was making plans to move to Geneva in mid-December to hear Arafat explain the Nov. 15 declaration of an independent Palestinian state and PLO plans for a Middle East peace settlement. 
Arafat has said he wants to explain the new position taken by the Palestine National Coun­cil, which acts as the PLO legislature, in implicitly recog­nizing Israel by accepting U.N. resolutions on the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
a slight chance of that." 

If there is sufficient clearing, it will come toward the end of the three-hour launch opportu­nity that begins at 6:32 a.m. EST, Strange said. He predicted that Friday morning looked slightly better, but that winds would still be a problem. 
"Saturday is looking a little bit better," he said. 
Atlantis pilot Guy Gardner, an Air Force lieutenant colonel, practiced emergency landings on the space center's three-mile runway Thursday in a plane specially outfitted to handle like the shuttle. The four other military men on the mission--shuttle commander Robert Gibson and mission 
specialists  Richard  Mullane,  
Jerry  Ross  and  William  
Shepherd-­ flew  in  T-38  jets  

around the cape to acclimate their bodies to flight. 
continued from page 1 Soviets and allies who operate there was no indication whe­separate jamming gear. ther the lifting was a per­in support of Gorbachev's "Reports from the Soviet m<ment decision or whether it 
[}=[]~~~w ~~ ®tr ~~[Ritr[}=[][Q)~w~ 
policy of glasnost, or openness. Union and the Baltic republics will be expanded to include "an Pell said, however, jamming confirm that Radio Liberty and absolute and irrevocable end to 
,___....M.......mNJ®~~
was still continuing against Radio Free Europe broadcasts all jamming.'' 
Radio Free Europe broadcasts ..----------------------•
to Czechoslovakia and Bul-

Kevin 
garia. VOA broadcasts in the 
Copy documents up to 24" x36" 
&

Dari and Pashto languages into 
at Kinko·s, the copy center.
Mghanistan also were still 
Colleen Keyes

jammed, but the broadcasts of 




Oversize
Radio Mghanistan, affiliated with Radio Free Europe, into 
kinko·s· 
December 1 , 1988

the war-torn country were 
.. 

clear, he said. 
the copy center



Copies 
18187 State Road 23 
Love,
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE 

271-Q398 
Your~ami{y
UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 

The internationally renowned 
THE ffiNSTITIITION 
Thr '"'''rds wr live ~· 
I,,, '• •'·ot·•~ol .·~ 1",,. l .,, '. 


QI SHU-FANG PEKING OPERA TROUPE OF SHANGHAI 
SfEAKS If·
•
PRIMERIB .. 1 SEAFOOD ~~~use 
HRESTNJRANT 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 



FIESTA BOWL 
Complete Travel Package 
I. 98 Includes roundtrip air. 
$A.f hotel. rental car and Pf' person more. See details in . 


will be appearing this Sundayat 3:30pm and Monday at 8:00pm at
q.c; xcuool)(y large ad elsewhere m 'r.: ·: .; :ooo: this issue. Gom<l<•rtnot•"''.­

Washington Hall. The troupe, on its first American tour, will be performing
Premier PasSports 

traditional Chinese Operas which combine acrobatics and dance with music
The Official Travel Agency of the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers 

and song. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office. 

Thursday, December 1 , 1988 The Observer page7 
• 

Bush will look to Jackson for suggestions 
Quayle won't be right wing's 'spear carrier' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--George Bush sat down Wednesday with Jesse Jackson, the man who only a few months ago he dubbed a "hustler from Chicago," and said he will. be looking to the Democrat for suggestions during his presidency. 
While Bush made no policy commitments to Jackson or to a group of environmentalists with whom he met earlier, it was a day of positive reviews for the president-elect. 
Jackson said he was con­vinced Bush "has an earnest desire to send forth a moral tone" in his presidency. 

FDIC proposes $30 billion savings and loan bailout 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The chair­man of the Federal Deposit In­surance Corp. on Wednesday called for spending $30 billion next year to shut down the "worst losers" in the savings and loan industry. 
"We need to close the worst first," FDIC chairman L. William Seidman said in a luncheon speech to the Na­tional Press Club. " ... These in­stitutions are losing over a bil­lion dollars per month." 
Seidman's agency insures deposits in commercial banks, not thrift institutions, but his agency is offering recommen­dations for solving the crisis in the savings and loan industry. 
Associated Press election, said Wednesday he won't be their "so-called spear 
WASHINGTON-Vice carrier" in the Bush adminis­President-elect Dan Quayle, tration. wooed by members of his In a wide-ranging interview party's right wing since the with The Associated Press, 
......--11-IE 11-IOMAS J. 
HITECENTER FOR LAWAN--,---0 GOVERNMENT 
presents a lecture by Robert Hayes, ESQ. National Coalition for the Homeless New York on 
" The Courts and the Homeless Gaining Ground?" 
Noon Thursday, Dec. 1 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 
Ir -~..-....-....-....-...-....-....-....-....-...-....-....-....-...._..,_...._.._,_..-.c.._....-....-....-....-...-..-.t,_....-....-..--...-....-....-.c..-...._....-..--..-..........-...-.l Attention All Sophomores: 
And one of the environmental leaders, Jay Hair of the Na­tional Wildlife Federation, said Bush's receptivity was a "night apd day" difference from the Reagan White House years of 
"ideological  shrillness,  anti­ 
environmental  actions  and  
lack of stewardship."  

Bush and .Jackson, after a meeting sought by the former Democratic presidential can­didate, played down their dif­ferences and their harsh cam­paign criticism of one another, including allegations by Jack­son and others that part of Bush's presidential campaign incited racist fears. 
"The campaign is over. I have no arguments with the 
Some analysts recommend tapping Seidman's fund, a move he opposes, and estimate that the S&L cleanup will even­tually cost $50 billion to $100 bil­lion. 
The Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corporation which, insuring deposits in thrift insti­tutions, is technically insol­vent. Regulators have been spending as little cash as possible, putting together res­cue packages with promissory notes and guarantees commit­ting revenue they expect to receive for the next 30 years from an assessment on healthy S&Ls. 
Few analysts believe the in­dustry can bear such a burden for that long. 
Seidman did not call directly for a taxpayer bailout, saying only, "It's up to the Treasury Department and Congress to determine which alternative makes the most sense." 
He said that the S&L industry "certainly can contribute its part" but added that "beyond that contribution, the govern­ment must find the resources to,meet this problem." 
Seidman's recommendation to quickly close about 90 seriously insolvent S&Ls dif­fers sharply from the views of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, responsible for regulat­ing the nation's 3,028 federally insured S&Ls. 
way Reverend Jackson con­ducted himself toward me, and I hope it's the same with him on a personal basis," Bush said. 
"There will be times in my presidency when I will ask for his suggestions. . . . He has some very good ideas on a lot of subjects that are of keen in­terest to our country." 
During the presidential cam­paign, Republican Bush once called Jackson a "loose can­non," and on a campaign trip to Nebraska in May vowed he would return to the state be­eause "I'm not going to be out­hustled by the hustler from Chicago or that traditional liberal Democrat from Mas-
Quayle also hinted that he may spend more time than his predecessors in presiding over the Senate, which is controlled by the Democrats. 
On a personal note, he said he had learned from the verbal gaffes he committed during the campaign to curb a tendency toward talking too much. "Ver­bosity leads to uficlear, inartic­ulate things," he said. 
Quayle also said he would 

Floral House & Gifts, Inc. 
20°/o off Roses and Corsages for Senior Christmas Formal 
Cash and Carry Only Dec. 2nd and 3rd 
sachussets," the latter a refer­ence to Gov. Michael Dukakis who defeated Jackson for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
Jackson joked Wednesday that he and Bush had talked about the Republican "moving begrudgingly but with a lot of 
excitement  toward  
liberalism."  
He  brought  three  of  his  

children to the lunch meeting in Bush's office, and they ate with Bush's oldest son, George. 
On another subject, Bush sidestepped reporters' ques­tions on stories of disagree­ment within his staff on the possible naming ..of former Sen . 
' 

Solitary studying 
Saint Mary's senior Pat·ldusogie ignores the snow outside and gets a jump on finals as she studies in her private corner of the Library at Saint Mary's. 
make no recommendation as to who should replace him in the Senate, but he did not reject suggestions that he favors Rep. Dan Coats, the former aide who represents his old congres­sional district. 
His comments about the con­servatives who have beaten a path to his transition office were his strongest public rejec­tion of the notion that he would become a link between the Re­publican Party's far right and the new administration. Quayle himself is an ardent conservative who has largely supported Reagan administra­tion positions during his eight years in the Senate. 
"I've worked with a number of cimservaiives_in_ the past; a lot of good friends are con­
servatives,  but  I'm  not  the  
point  man  for  the  conserva­ 
tives  in  this  administra­ 

tion.... You won't see me being the so-called spear car­rier for all the so-called conser­vative issues," Quayle said. 
SPRING BREAK p 89 
Reservations Available Now 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX from $149* Sheraton/Holiday Inn/Gulf Vfew 
STEAMBOAT, CO  from $93*  
Shadow Run/Overlook  
DAYTONABEACH,Fl  from$118*  
Texan Motel  
MUSTANG ISLAND, TX  from $136*  
Port Royal Condos  

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC from $1 07* 
John Tower of Texas as defense secretary. 
"Stay tuned," Bush said, repeating his favorite refrain on pending administration nominations. "All is tranquil" within his staff, he laughed. 
Meanwhile, Samuel Skinner, chairman of the Regional Transportation Authority in the Chicago area, emerged as Bush's likely choice for trans­portation secretary. A govern­ment source, commenting on condition he not be named, said Skinner talked to Bush transi­tion staffers in Washington on Tuesday and probably would meet with Bush next week. 
The Observer I Heleni Korwek 

1I -F b k' ·. h I
1 The meeting to turn in the initial deposit of $20 for the e 3-5 s 1 tnp as 1 
1 been changed. The meeting is now scheduled for Monday, December 5, 1988 1 at 7:00 pm. Dooley Room--Main Floor of LaFortune sign-ups will be taken on a Jlfirst come, first serve basis. 
'Dependtng on Break dates & length ot stay 

.._.,.,_..,........_...._..._..--_,.._.._...._..._..._..._..,_..~---.._...._..._...._...._...._..._...._...._...._..,_...._...._...._..._...._...._...._.........._.._..~ 






Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, December 1, 1988 
The fruits of Ame.rican bureaucracy 
Over the past few years, there's been a lot of alarm in the media and Congress about a horrible monster called the Federal Deficit. But when it actually comes to "cutting it down to size," there are a myriad of com­plaints. Everyone has to spend a cer­tain amount of money to stay elected in the places from which they hail. Each senator yells "No cuts in. my state!" Each congressman yells, "Oh, no! Not my district!" The worst yellers of all are the bureaucrats. But there's a major difference between the bureaucrats and elected officials. Bu­reaucracy never goes away. 
Glenn Fogarty 
with no apologies 
All it can do is spend money. Much of the money goes to the bureaucracy
r
, itself; the rest, quite literally, goes to , waste. In fact, American bureaucrats
, 
(the most talented money-wasters in the world) have turned the wasting of tax dollars into a veritable science·. Thus, I think it's about time to pay homage to the wise expenditures and actions of our beloved (yet often ig­nored) public servants in Washington. 
Bureaucracies ostensibly are created to solve problems. However, there is something fundamentally wrong in this idea. If the bureaucracy actually solved "the problem," it would put itself out 
of business. Bureaucrats are pretty smart, so, to keep themselves in busi­ness, they make problems worse (or let them become so), in order to expand their "necessary functions" at some later date. That makes sense, too, be­cause bureaucracies receive money ac­cording to how big they are, not if they actually serve their purpose. And the less an agency actually does, the more money it has available to spend on it­self. (The Office of Economic Opportunity--created to help the poor-­spends 81 percent of its budget on overhead--that is, on itself). Still, a bu­reaucracy must spend money on some­thing, to justify its existence. Our bureaucrats, I must say, have been pretty creative in this regard. 
One thing government agencies love to do is lay down rules and regulations. Federal bureaucrats drew up specifi­cations for a mousetrap (Why?). The specs ran 700 pages and weighed 3.3 pounds. In June 1973, the Food and Drug Administration ruled that all cherry pies sold in interstate commerce could 
Doonesbury 
contain no more than 15 percent blemished cherries. Now, really, is anyone going to sit there on a cherry pie assembly line, ready to knock off the sixteenth blemished cherry out of every hundred that comes along? 
The FDA in particular loves to give out "urgent warnings" (It makes them feel important). This agency actually issues an "urgent warning" to the public not to eat the heart-shaped boxes that Valentine's Day candies come in. In Oct. 1973, the FDA forced manufac­turers to recall glue in aerosol cans on an emergency basis. This product is al­most indispensable to graphic artists, mind you. The reason: somehow, some­way, the agency had determined that spray glue would cause birth defects if eaten by pregnant women. It's a very common food, you know. I can just pic­ture the scenario : 
"Honey, I'm home. What's for din­ner?" 
"Oh, hello dear. I'm just frying up some of that delicious aerosol spray glue. Would you like cheese on yours?" 
"No, thanks. Please don't cook it in butter. The doctor said the cholesterol might be unhealthy." 
What qualifies as art to a bureau­crpcy is pretty interesting too. The Na­tional Endowment for the Arts financed a film that repeatedly showed a dog being shot to death. I guess the director didn't like dogs. This same agency gave a $6,025 grant to an artist to make a film about throwing crepe paper and burning gases out of high-flying airplanes. Much of the grant was spent on the artist's trip to a Caribbean island which had been "influential in the de­velopment of the artist.'' The actual film only had snippets of high-flying crepe paper, focusing more on the art­ist's island vacation. Home movies are just dandy, but they shouldn't be financed by tax dollars. 
Bureaucrats' favorite thing to spend money on is a "study" of something. "Studying" actually connotes some type of serious activity; it sounds im­portant. So they casually waste millions on "studies." Here are some examples. The Department of Transportation spent $225,000 on a report that forecasts transport needs in the year 2025 given 4 scenarios (Ice Age, Dictatorship, Hippy Culture, and High-Tech Future). The glorious finding of this report is that gas will cost less in a Hippy Cul­ture. The U.S.D.A. performed a $46,000 study on how long it takes to cook eggs for breakfast. The National Science Foundation blew $918,000 to find out that "people who go camping do not like bugs or mosquitos.'' TheFAAspent $57,800 on a head-to-foot physical study of 432 airline stewardesses, involving 79 specific measurements. One inter­esting fact is that stewardesses' noses average 2.18 inches long. Now we know. We sure got our money's worth. 
Wait. It gets better. One researcher received a $!n,000 grant to study the "social and behavioral relationships" in a Peruvian brothel. Sounds like fun. Here's a list of some more indispen­sable federal studies. Study of Fris­bees, $375,000. Study to find out why kiddies fall off tricycles, $19,300. Study on .chasing wild boars in Pakistan, $35,000. Study to find out why people say "ain't," $121,000. 
The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism has made some interesting studies as well. It conducted a $102,000 experiment on fish, one that included extensive tests intended to an­swer the question "Are sunfish that drink tequila more aggressive than sun­fish that drink gin?" Now, personally, I've never met any sunfish that make it a habit to drink tequila, but the an­swer seems quite obvious to me. Naturally the fish will be more aggres­sive in tequila because, if he survives that long, he will try to dive for the worm at the bottom of the bottle. A second part of this institute's study ($90,000 worth) consisted of placing rats in frustrating situations and seeing how drunk they became as a result. (The poor rats will have to go in for rehab, I suppose, too). 
All of this ludicrousness might be fun to waste time (and others' money) on, but the bureaucrat who authorizes these rules, grants, and expenditures is spending your, my, and everybody else's tax money. I could think of better things for which the government could use its "revenues." Better yet, the gov­ernment and its army of bureaucrats shouldn't get that much to begin with. It's safer that way. And remember, don't eat those heart-shaped boxes. The FDA warned you, so there are no ex­cuses. 
Glenn Fogarty is a sophomore cur­rently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Join Women United for Justice & Peace 
Dear Editor: 

"We are gathered here together to educate ourselves and others in order to grow in our common humanity, to lead us to an understanding of our re­sponsibilities in the world today, and to the actions we must take accordingly.'' This is the statement of purpose for a group of students concerned with issues of peace and justice. Women United for Justice and Peace wishes to honor and inform the public of the "Mother of the Modern Civil Rights Movement." 
On Dec. 3, 1955, Rosa Parks, a black woman from Montgomery, Alabama, defied an unjust law and refused to yield her seat to a white passenger. Her courageous actions sparked riots, strikes, and a court battle which resulted in the desegregation of Montgomery buses. 
Garry Trudeau 
YOU WOI< IAJANNA
A Urn& YeAH... 
TAU<
15HCXJK UP, Y/3AH ... A80l!T -PAL.. YOU TM fiN&. 
IF 
: FUUNG THAN/<5. OI<AY? 
\
\ 


-Ih~·e-Obse~W4__'~r~­
-----. -A..~Y=-'-' -­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College II does not necessanty reflect the polic1es of the adminiStration of e1ther 1nst1tuhon The news IS reported as accurately and ObJectively as poSSible Uns1gned echtonals represent the op1n10n of the maJOnty of the Ed1tonal Board Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the community and the lree express1on of vary1ng 
Editorial Board  
Ed1tor-~n-Ch1el  Chns Murphy  
Manag~ng Ed1tor  Chns Donnelly  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s CoCCia  
News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  
V1ewpo~nt Ed1tor  Man Slaughter  
Sports Ed1tor  Marty Strasen  
Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  
Sa~nt Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cenmele  
Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  

Today, we look to her courage and spirit to inspire us in our continual struggle for social justice. We join hands with Rosa Parks in affirming that one small act can produce great change in our nation and our world. Wo­men United for Justice and Peace chal­lenges Notre Dame students to unite as educated Americans and realize that we can make a difference in the ongoing struggle for peace and justice in our world. We invite all women and men to join our group as we learn more about these pressing issues. 
Kristin Komyatte Women United for Justice and Peace 
Nov. 28, 1988 

The  Observer  retains  
the  right  to  edit  all  
commentaries  submit­ 

ted to the Viewpoint department. 
Quote of the Day 
"The right to do something doesn't mean that doing it is right." 
William Safire 
Operations Board 
Bus~ness Manager John Oxnder Advert1s1ng Des1gn Manager Molly K1llen Advert1s1ng Manager Linda Goldschmidt Production Manager Bernadette Sh1lls Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway Controller Todd Hard1man Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns 

op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 


Accent
Thursday, December 1, 1988 
page 9 

English court relived at dinner 
TRISHA CHAMBERS assistant accent writer 
E 
nglish music fills the room as the guests of the Queen dine on Baron of Beef au jus, Wastylbrede, Puddying of Plommes, and other scintillating food placed before them. 
Fortunately for students and residents of South Bend, enjoying a feast such as this does not require a time machine or a trip to London, but a simple walk to Regina Hall at St. Mary's College on Dec. 1,2, and 3 at 6:30p.m. for the 16th annual Madrigal Christmas Dinner. 
Clayton Henderson, chairman of the St. Mary's Department of Communication and Theater and the Production Manager for these performances, describes the purpose behind the dinners as an attempt "to duplicate a typical feast during the court of Elizabeth I, roughly from 1560-1600.'" 

Follies 1n• France 
This includes traditional English songs, dances, and food. 

However, there are a few modernized additions or replace­KELLY JURAS misunderstood the recep­jumped in the bath and ments. "The Boar's Head Carol" is still sung despite the fact accent writer tionist's broken English when returned to my room baring that roast beef is served instead. Present etiquette also she quoted the hotel prices nothing but a towel. To my dictates the use of silverware, whereas fingers were used in No, I'm not a Saint earlier at $120 a week be­surprise, my triple room the 16th century. Mary'S'Notre Dame cause my bill was for $650.00! which I thought was to be 
Another difference is the inclusion of French and Spanish Anger student, Rome student, Either I was ripped off, or I shared with two women was songs, as well as Christmas carols. Henderson comments on or Innsbruck student. stayed in the most expensive inhabited by two Spanish the change: "We're not purists. We include "Silent Night" However, I did manage to single prison cell in the men. As a consequence for from the 18th century, but most of the music could have been spend a year of college world. my embarrassment, my "new heard during the time period." studies elsewhere overseas. I Until living in Europe, I roommates" treated me to an 
Assistant professor Nancy Menk has been working with spent last year in Montpellier, took American showers for Italian dinner. (In case you members of the Notre DameSt. Mary's Collegiate Choir and France through Davidson Col­granted. During our one are wondering, yes, I did the St. Mary's College Women's Choir since the beginning of lege's Junior Year Abroad month dormitory stay before move out.) November, practicing several times a week in order to provide Program. Being the pro­moving into our permanent I never got used to the ad­the perfect dining entertainment. She stated that the tradi­gram's sole representative residences, everyone used vances of European men. As tional favorites will still be sung, but other songs have been from Saint Mary's and Notre showers in which the I was posing for a picture in added to make it different from last year. Dame and hearing other stu­downward flow of water was front of Madrid's Royal 
There are five fanfares to celebrate different portions of the dents' recounts of their times activated by a footpump. The Palace, a Spanish man, pass­evening. The first heralds the entrance of the singers; the overseas has inspired me to problem was that water ing with his girlfriend (mind second heralds the Wassail Bowl which is a spicy Christmas share with you several of my would run for 10 seconds, stop you), stopped, swept me off punch with the "Gloucestershire Wassail;" the third heralds most noteworthy experiences. abruptly, and would not start of my feet, and kissed my the Boar's Head and Feast; the fourth heralds the plum Everyone told me that the again for another two neck as he carried me away. pudding with "We Wish "¥ou a Merry Christmas;" and lastly, first month spent in a foreign minutes. This is the reason I kicked and flailed until he the fifth heralds the entertainment, particularly the peasant country would be the hardest, why so many of us were sick: finally let me go with a smile, dancers. but why didn't anyone warn from waiting with a cold a pinch, and a wink. (And 
Assistant professor Cynthia Dieckgrafe has also been me of potential miscomings shampooed head for the you think Domers are bad?) -· working with eight dancers since the beginning of November. on day one? I descended Pan water to start again. After I became too quickly accus­She has choreographed four dances based upon extensive Am flight 151 in Paris on moving into my apartment, I tomed to the endless begging research in order to remain as close to the period as possible. Sept. 1 feeling nauseous, ex­was happy to find the of Montpellier bums. After 
"During this time, the dancers were watched from a balcony tremely fatigued, deaf from showers less primitive. being asked for a franc from to see their intricate processional patterns," said Dieckgrafe. the altitude changes, and However, my bathtub, too beggars a zillion times, I be­This cannot be done due to lack of space and, interestingly blind from my overworked small to sit in, was equipped came accustomed to automat­
· enough, lack of male dancers. In fact, there are only four contact lenses, only to learn with a wild manual shower ically repeat "je n'en ai pas" court dancers because only two men could be found. that the airlines lost MY lug­hose that left everything in (I don't have any) whenever 
Gerry Welch, the Master of the House, similar to a master gage and ONLY MY luggage. the room soaked but me. someone touched my arm. I of ceremonies, introduces the dancers periodically through the (It was returned to me three I never thought I would get felt two inches tall one day dinner. They perform the Galliard and Couranto, a more months later.) At least you used to European promis­after instinctively yelling this flirtacious dance, but both regal and English. now know which airline not to cuities. While waiting at a into a sweet old lady's face. I 
The peasant dancers have the Country Dance, representing take. train station somewhere in later found out that she only people from surrounding lands, and the Allemand, both of French verb misuses were Southern France, two friends wanted the time. which are faster and more playful than their royal counter­often the source of great em­and I decided to look for I learned the hard way that parts.. barrassment. During family lunch. Little did we know that no one speaks in Montpellier 
The court is completed with a Court Jester, Elizabeth dinner one Sunday night, I we walked ourselves into a buses. Passing through the Arthur, and a Royal consort composed of a harpsichord played asked my host mother about remote nudist town whose center of town, I spotted a by Henderson, and oboes and percussion instruments played French New Year's Eve inhabitants were carrying on group of my American by Maryann Flock, Linda Enright and Kristen Schumacher. traditions. Instead of using daily activities such as shop­friends seated at an outdoor 
The performances for this year have been sold ,out, but for the French verb to kiss, I ping and jogging in the raw. I cafe. Thinking I was back in those who are fortunate enough to see the talented singers, mistakenly asked if French learned two things from this the states, I instinctively dancers, as well as the lavish and authentic period costumes people .:. --k at midnight. experience. One, I will never jumped up, opened the win­created by Linda Wigley, a reminder from the Elizabethan Misunderstandings even in need another sex education dow, and screamed a very Book du Curtasye: "Gueysts myst not Jeane on the table wyth English speaking countries class; and two, I now know loud and extended, "heyyy theyre elbowes, nor dyp theyre thumbes in theyre drynke." created several problems. that a swinging backpack can youuu guyyss! ! ! " I turned 
Having a one week vacation be a potential health hazard. around and found all of the before the beginning of the European rules and regula­passengers' eyes, full of hor­school year, I decided to take tions are in an entirely differ­ror and disgust, on me. I
WVFI. 
an economical trip to Hol­ent ball game than those in apologized to everyone and land. Upon checking out, I America. Returning to my passively slumped back down
AM 64 

was handed my bill for my Venetian youth hostel after a into my seat. six night stay. I had evidently busy day of sightseeing, I C'est la vie en France.

Top 10 Albums 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
Nov. 23-Nov. 30 
1. 
R.E.M. "Green" 

2. 
THE FEELIES "Only Life" 

3. 
THE WATERBOYS "Fisherman's Blues" 

4. 
LIMESPIDERS "Volatile" 

5. 
JULIAN COPE "My Nation Underground" 

6. 
7 SECONDS "Ourselves" 



-
7. 
BILLY BRAGG "Workers Playtime" 

8. 
LLOYD COLE AND THE COMMOTIONS "Mainstream" 

9. 
MINISTRY "The Land of Rape and Honey" 

10. 
U2 "Rattle and Hum" 



.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1988 

ceremony 
year in kickoff return average. 
In the first 10 games of this remarkable, record-shattering season, the 5-foot-8, 197-pound Sanders has rushed 300 times for 2,296 yards, second most in NCAA history at any level. 
He is 46 yards away from the single-season record of 2,342 yards set by Southern Califor­nia's Marcus Allen, who needed 403 carries to do it in 1981. With 35 touchdowns, Sanders has broken the record of 29 set by Penn State's Lydell Mitchell in 1971 and Nebraska's Mike Rozier in 1983. Sanders is averaging 289.7 
• per game and his 2,897 yards-­2,296 rushing, 102 receiving, 404 on kickoff returns, 95 on punt returns--smashed the mark of 2,633 by Temple's Paul Palmer in 1986 (White had 1,970 yards in eight games in 1937). 



LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o lolesovong 
Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red c~


Sanders 
Associated Press 

STILLWATER, OKLA.­Barry Sanders got the first part of his wish. He will be in Japan when the winner of the Reis­man Trophy is announced. 
The second part is not likely to be as easy. 
"I'd like to see Troy (UCLA quarterback Troy Aikman) or Peete (Southern Cal quarter­back Rodney Peete) get it," Sanders said. 
Nevertheless, the tailback is expected to become the eighth junior winner in the Reisman's 54-year history when results of voting by 870 members of the media and former Reisman winners are announced Satur­day. 
Before Oklahoma State left for Japan, Sanders explained why he would rather not win the Reisman. 
"I just don't want to deal with it. It's not that I'm scared to, because if I got it, I'd appreci­ate it and I'd handle it as best as possible. 
"But it kind of puts a lot of pressure on one guy. If I got it, I'd feel privileged and every­thing, but it really wouldn't mean much to me right now be­cause as young as I am (he turned 20 in July) I still have a 

to miss 
long ways to go." 
If the Downtown Athletic Club in New York wants to chop the trophy into sections for his offensive linemen and fullback Garrett Limbrick, Sanders would be delighted. The team comes first with him, and he's not just mouthing the proper words. He means it. 
"I don't know if it's bad to say this, but I don't think the Reisman Trophy should be given out in college because there are so many players at so many different positions you can't really just single out the best player," he said. 
The Reisman Committee in­vited five of the nation's top players to attend the nationally televised announcement-­Sanders, Aikman, Peete and quarterbacks Steve Walsh of Miami (Fla.) and Major Harris of West Virginia. Walsh can't make it, either. He has a game against Brigham Yot,mg on Sat­urday night. 
The four quarterbacks have posted some outstanding num­bers this season, but none as remarkable as Sanders, who was a second-teamer behind All-American Thurman Thomas his first two years and carried the ball only 185 times while serving mainly as a kick returner. He led the nation last 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts class1fieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 




Classifieds 
NOTICES  3 BDRM HOUSE. $250 MOON BLAINE AV CALL 277-0839  Salomon Woman's Ski Boots size 7or8-gi1Nit condition gi1Nit price # 2788  FOR SALE :coupon for $98 rdtrip lickel chicago-minr>SI. paul for Chrislmas break # 4850  HAPPY B-DAY ROCKI  Nettie  CONAN THINKS ELVIRA IS A BABE  
....  TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ACADEMICBUSINESS TYPING 237-11149  WANTED SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Jusl off N.D. Ave. Ph# 233-2342  1978 Ford L TO Wagon. Good Condilion $925 or besl offer. 684-4621. ROUNDTRIP AIRPLANE TIX TO ANYWHERE IN US BEST OFFER CALL 272-9903  HAVE YOU TUNED INTO THE HEART AND SOUL OF MICHIANA? WLW JAM 910 AM MOTOWN AT ITS BEST I NEED 1 GA TO THE FIESTA BOWL! CALL KRISTIN AFTER IOPM 284-4225 MATEO'S SUB SHOP  Dealh is a lonely business. TO THE KIUKUK INDIAN FROM HELL-­The monsler who never fails lo rally, Im­bibe lo lhe· max, don'l relax, c.uz Biz-n-Moi are keeping Iaiiy. lis your birthday so go gel naughty Even worse lhan you did in Frascali. Or  CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  CALL  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summar, Yr.round,AII CountriH, All  TICKETS  FREE DELIVERY 271-oSUB "THE EASTERN STYLE SUB"  better yel Why don'l you gel Some 'Miscellaneous" Arabs from llally! BUON CUMPLEANNI BELLA!!!  •"ITS FREE""IT'S FUN"•• CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD  
Yogi's Yogurt, Now delivering COLOMBO YOGURT Mon. Tues. Thurs nighl 7:Q0-9:30 277-4337.  Halda. FrM Into. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92825 FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR  HELPIll I need as many ND-IU baskelball lickels as I can gelll Call Colleen al x4053.  PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER· VIEWS PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE  GARY CONRAD IS BACKfill( ) HIS HYPNOTISM SOLD OUT LAST YEAR SO DON'T MISS HIM THIS YEAR  CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD  
QUALEX INC, THE LEADER IN THE PHOTO INDUSTRY, NEEDS ONE DE­PENDABLE, RESPONSIBLE INDIVID· UAL TO WORK WED NESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY EVENINGS, FROM 7-9 PM, TO DRIVE TO AND FROM MICHIANA REGIONAL AIR­PORT TO LOAD AND UNLOAD FILM. MUST HAVE VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE, WITH GOOD DRIVING RECORD, AND BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OLD. APPLY AT 921 LOUISE STREET, SOUTH BEND, WEEKDAYS BETWEEN 8 AM AND 4 PM. E.O.E. STUDENTS-WE HAVE LOWERED OUR PRICESI You uld they -•too hlg,__ hurd youl Glv. ua a try lor your lyplng or wordprocaulng. Put your raauma on our national on-llna raauma raglatry. TYPING SERVICES UNLIMITED (1 mi. north of Notra a.m. In RoMII!ndj. 271­8118. Houra: 8 am to 3 pm, Monday­Friday. I LOST/FOUND I  2ND SEMESTER. PRIVATE ROOM IN LARGE 4 BR STUDENT HOUSE. WALK TO NO. 255-5852 EVENINGS FOR DETAILS. Need ride lo Indianapolis on Sal. for b­ball games. If you can help, call Joe x4137. Would like lo leave SB Sal AM for 1sl game & return Ssl PM aHer 2nd game. Need help in accounting before finals-big S$$ call Marl< al256-7139(1eave meBBge) DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO COLORADO FOR CHRISTMAS. CAN SHARE GAS AND DRIVING. DAYS FLEXIBLE. CAN PRO· VIDE STOPOVER FOR THOSE GOING FARTHER WEST. CALL PETE AT 283· 4601. We need lhe following NO foolball memorabilia: Any GA slubs from any home games; Pictures of "Nobody Leaves NO # 1" banner during Miami game; Pholos of Hogs playing in mud on field aHer Penn Stele. We will pay you for lhese items. Pleese call Chris al 283­3169 or Pale at 283-4601.  ············································ FORSALE:1 RDTRPTKTTOPHOENIX OR ANYWHERE MIDWAY FLYS. INC­VIRGIN IS,BAHAMAS,FLA. GOOD 1 YR. $350 OR BEST OFFER. CHARLIE X2449 BUYING FIESTA BOWL TOPS PAID BQ0-2118-2481. I NEED FIESTA BOWL TIX. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$$. CALL C.B. AT 4364. PERSONALS UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-3889 Turl<ey day has come and gone, and Sante is jusl around lhe comer This Friday is the Senior Class Chrlatmas Formal. It is an event you won't want to mi881 MATH TUTOR-234-3878.  VISITifiLANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSIS­TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES. HESBURGH LI­BRARY LOUNGE, TODAY AT 4:00P.M. PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER· VIEWS PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE VISITifiLANT TRIP. A PRESENTTION GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSIS­TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER & PLACE· MENT SERVICES. HESBURGH LI­BRARY LOUNGE, TODAY AT 4:00P.M. Going to Florida or vlclnlly???? I am and I need someonelo help share driving and expenses. Call283-2892 if you need a ride. OFFICIAL "O-MAN" (allaa: HI! I'm Garyj BOAY WEEKI! SEE IF YOU CAN SAY HAPPY BOAY BEFORE HE ASKS YOU YOUR LIFE STORYI-GHUCKIE AMY RAZZ· ONLY 1 MORE DAY TIL BUTT... Hey Val V., don'l listen to Lisa! I'm nol looking for a dale, I jusl wanl lo gel lo  SHOWTIME: 8:00 AND 10:00 ( ) IN WASHINGTON HALL( ) TONIGHTIIIII( LOSE YOUR MIND TO GARY CON­RAD( SHOW TONIGHT AT 8:00 & 10:00(l BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE S.U.B. GET CONTROL OF YOUR MINDIII ( ) SEMINARS WITH HYPNOTIST GARY CONRAD MIDNIGHT THURSDAY GEN­ERAL HYPNOSIS FRIDAY 12:00 ATH­LEIC MIND CONTROL 2:00 MIND CON­TROL TO LOSE WEIGHT 3:00 OVERCOMING SHYNESS 4:00 ACA­DEMIC EXCELLENCE FOR EXAMS ALL SEMINARS WILL BE HELD IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM IN LAFORTUNE RATPICK-IF YOU COME BACK FROM LONDON A HIPPIE YOUR DAD WILL BEAT YOU SENSELESS AND THEN I'LL GET MY TURN. T.J. AND I WENT 4 WHEELIN' LAST NIGHT AT 3 A.M. WE'LL TELL YOU THAT STORY LATER.... HASBY  SLEIGH RIDESI SLEIGH RIDES! FREEIFREEIFREEI MARSHMALLOW ROASTIMARSHMALLOW ROAST CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD TONIGHT! TONIGHT! TONIGHT! TONIGHT -ll:QO-WASHINGTON HALL SLEIGH RIDES•" SLEIGH RIDES""" FREE•FREE•FREE"FREE" FREE•FREE•FREE" CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD LATEST NEWS FLASHI!III lnnocenl ANE ancked by X-aC1o wielding PBIIPolice currently searching lor a short loud sophomore who cannol even <:!rive Film a111,... YO IS-THE SCHWA IS THE LOFTI WE SAW A MILLION FACES... AND WE ROCKED THEM ALL... (in new york) Bschelor # 1 ... Who's calling Who daa·  
- LOST !oat LOST Blue BASF Maconlosh Dial< Initialized: Chrostopher Waner I HAVE A MAJOR PAPER DUE AND IT IS ON THAT DISK. The disk has Managemenl Disk on lhe label. Call x2017 ~ you find ~­FOUND Wornens blue coat found at Uniled lermonal al LAX. Lefl aHer 4:00pm llighl. Call Greg, 259-8337  CLEVELANDIIII I need a ride horne lor Xmas break. Call Kalhie al 4190. A FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE A TONW­HOUSE IN TURTLE CREEK. VERY REASONABLY PRICED. CALL EARLY OR LATE 284-5001 FOR DETAILS!  CLUB 23 The bast atufled pizza town. Groups walcoma. 234-3541 hi ag. Thankyou Sl. Jude PRAY TO ST. JUDE DF  know you. Jus1 oul of curiosity, do you have a boyfriend? an admirer WANTED: 33 hour roadtrippers from heck OH&I70 lo STL&I40...TEMPEII x2306 Going to Big 4 in Indy? Room for 1 or 2 more?$$ Eric or Don x1710  HEY NOTRE DAMEIIIIIII FLETCH IS SICK AND HE'S GOING ;I" THROUGH CHEESE DOG WITHDRAWAL. HELP HIM OUT. SEND YOUR CARDS, LETTERS, FLOWERS TO 211 HOLY CROSS HALL OR CALL 3t20. GLORIA ESTEFAN SHOULDN'T BOTHER. IF DEBBIE GIBSON KNOWS WHAT'S GOOD FOR HER. SHE WILL.  parate? And bachelor # 2 ... State the essence of... CHINGGGGGG!!!fll ("""reply here"") Your P.E. NIGHTMARES, LL & MB .................................................... CONGRATULATIONS MIKE WELLSIIII BEST WISHES FOR YOU AND YOUR NEW COMPANION Ill MMM Who will be lhe 1989 Cosl Queen? Slart  
- FOUND: Airplane pin near Noeuwland Hall about SlX weel<s ego. Call Mr. Clarl< al 287-2827. LOST: black Wayfarer Ray-Bsn sun­glasses (2-3 weeks ago1 I can idenlify lheml Pleese call 4666 LOST:35mm CANON SURE SHOT LAST SEEN:NOV 11 AT THE SMC SENIOR DANCE. IF FOUND CALL TRISH 284·5056  FOR SALE CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CAU FOR FACTS TODAY. 1102-837-3401. EXT. 881. AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE SOUTH­BEND TO WASHIGTON D.C. OR RALEIGH DURHAM ROUND TRIP $230 or BEST OFFER CALL MARCELINA 283-3294  SENIORS YOU'RE IN LUCK! X-MAS FORMAL TIX STILL AVAILABLE HURRY, THEY'RE GOING FAST ••-sENIORs•••• LAST MASS OF THE SEMESTER SUNDAY, DEC. 4 4:00PM CAVANAUGH HAU  RIDERS NEEDED: 1 WAY TO CT. FOR X-MAS BREAK. CALL HALLIE. 284-4086. FOR SALE-ONE WAY PLANE TICKET From Newark to ~.Bsnd leaving lale al­lemoon Jan. 16. Good prica. Call Laura at 284-5417. CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS DELIVERED TO YOUR SWEETIE Come In and chooM a atocklng, Hll It with goodlea and top It with mllotlatoal  It you can dacorete baaketa & w...tha, I have a fob tor youl Pl..u contact C.rol at The Country Harveatar, 239­6714. Pl..u call lor an appolntmant. CLUB 23 THIS THURSDAY JOHN KENNEDY & FRIENDS t0-1 $1.50 COVER  Campaigning nowll Why lry for Fiesla Bowl Oueen? When Hall of Fame Queen is so much better! You can win a carll BAKER'S SPECIAL FrHh paean halvea & placea, dlcad detH, lreah almonda whola & placH European chocolata ready tor making your own apaclal candlea. BUY NOW FOR YOUR HOLIDAY BAKING The Country Harv.atar  
FOR RENT  Grad Stud departing USA musl sell 81 FORD L TO excellent cond. A~M $1500 Call Jeff: 287-4240.  BUY!SELL AESTA BOWL. BUY 110-250, SELL 125-400. •  let ua deliver It lor you anywhera on tha Notre Dame or St. Mary'a campua. The Country HarvHter  HEY MIKE PAESE Notlhal you don't gel info The Observer  LaFortune Student Centar buarnant Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30pm 231H1714  
AIR I  HOTEL AVAILABLE.  LaFortune Studant C.ntar baumant  enough es ~ is. Here is your personal,  
FURNISHED ROOMS,SECURITY SYS­ THE TICKET EXCHANGE, TEMPE  Mon-Frl-12 noon-6:30 pm  you baby. Oh, and lhanks for saving 47  MR. HOOPSifOUCHDOWNIITS YOUR  
TEM ALSO 2 BEDROOM HOME.BOTH  78  BUICK  SKYHAWK.LOW  1100-727-3287.  231H1714  Domers from lhe deplhs of hell, or al  call NOW·K.C. LET'S TALK PLAYOFFS?  
WALK TO CAIIPUS.272-«108  MILE,CLEAN LOADED.272~  leasl O'Hare airport, on lhe way lo USC.  5168.  

Thursday, December 1, 1988 
The Observer 
Irish go to National Catholics 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The men's and women's swim teams, both with 2-1 records, will compete in their most important meet of the fall semester as they travel to Philadelphia for the second an­nual National Catholics. The competition is being held at LaSalle beginning today and continuing into the weekend. 
The National Catholics mark an important point in the season for both squads. It begins the transition to the spring season, and a good per­formance could help the Irish in later meets. 
"The planning and training since September have been aimed for the highest level of performance at this meet," said Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh. "The meet helps us a lot. The enthusiasm and spirit from last year's meet carried over and helped us in the whole second semester." 
Last season, in the inaugural National Catholic meet, both the men's and women's teams placed second. The men were outscored only by a surprising Villanova squad. Paul Godfrey turned in the only first place finishes for the Irish as Vil­lanova won 14 final races. Still, Notre Dame lost by only 30 points, and Welsh was named Coach of the Meet. 
The women's team finished 
second behind Boston College 
by over 200 points, but the Irish 
swimmers captured first place 
in six events and second place 
in two more. 

The Observer 1 Mike Moran 
Although both the men and formances from Godfrey, a women performed well last sophomore, and his classmate year, the 1988 National Cat­Brian Rini if they are to chal­holics will probably prove to be lenge the likes of LaSalle, the tougher than the previous year, host team, and Villanova. The because more teams will be en­Irish women are expecting tered. Christie Moston, Kathy Quirk 
and co-captain Tracy Johnson 
"We are competing against to have an impact. a larger field, a tougher field with more powerful teams," The women's team has said Welsh, who is in his fourth double duty this weekend as year as coach of Notre Dame. they will compete in another "As the meet grows each year, meet on Sunday against Vii­it becomes a better meet and lanova and Fordham. The Irish will contribute to the growing have a 3-0 winning streak importance of this meet on our against Fordham that they schedule." want to keep alive, and they are 
hoping to avenge an 0-2 record The men will need good per-against Villanova. 
NAVY HIRING PILOT TRAINEE 
College graduates arc needed to pilot, navigate, and maintain the most sophisticated aircraft in the world. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
All majors considered 


As a NAVY PILOT,you will fly the most advanced aircraft ever developed. 
As a NAVY FLIGHT OFFICER, you will operate the electronics and computers in the Navy's newestjets. 
Navy Officer Representatives will be on campus conducting an exclusive testing session. All interested students who arc within twc years of graduation are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately 3-112 hours and seats are limited. 
Date: Friday, Dec. 2nd Time: aa.m.-1 p.m. 
Place: The Placement Center 
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling _1_-_80_0_-_5_2_7-_8_8_3_6__________ 
PILOT-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 uncorrected vision. Ages 19-26. 
FLIGHT OFFICER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. 
MANAGER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Ship handling and management. Strong emphasis in personnel management. Ages 19-26. 
BUSINESS MANAGER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance, personnel, logistics. Ages 19-28. 
ENGINEER-Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project management. Engineering/Science/Technical major. Ages 19-2R 
Sophomores & Juniors: 
NAVAL AVIATION CADET-Sophomores from 4-yearor Community College that are undecided about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirements: 60 semester hours, 2.5 GPA and pass the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 
AVIATION RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE-Guaranteed Pilot/Flight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Junior year summer break, and upon completion of BS/BA degree. 
Must be a U.S. citizen and in good health. 

NAVY OFFICER 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 

page 11 



South Africa hosts richest golf payoff 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA-Three Americans, three South Mricans and two Europeans tee off Thursday in pursuit of g"blf's richest payout, a $1-million first prize in the annual Million Dollar Chal­lenge. 
The American entries are Chip Beck, Ken Green and Don Pooley. Beck was runner-up on the PGA tour's money-winning list in the United States this year and won two tournaments. Green also won twice in the United States and recently won the Dunlop Phoenix event in Japan. 
The three most recent win­ners of this tourrnfment are in the field for the 72-hole tourna­ment at the Sun City sports­and-gambling complex in the 

Bunek 
~ontinued from page 16 
mounted another comeback, but the Irish nailed eight-of-ten free throws in the closing minutes to seal the victory. 
Bunek paced the Irish with 22 points, but Robinson was the sparkplug. She scored 21 points, ran the offense for the first time in her career and nailed some crucial free throws in the closing moments. 
"One thing Karen Robinson can do is score and shoot free throws," McGraw said. "She played a good game. She made a couple of bad decisions, but that comes from inexperience. We can live with that becasue she makes up for it with all the other things she does." 
Lisa Kuhns added 12 points for Notre Dame, but had her 23-game three-point field goal streak snapped. She was 0-2 from three-point territory. Davis and Annie Schwartz scored six points each. Mic­helle Savage led Northwestern with 17 points and Carrie Law­less tossed in 11. 
Notre Dame, 1-0, will not have much time to savor the opening-game victory as it travels to Virginia Friday for the two-day Investors Classic. The Irish meet Georgetown at South Mrican-controlled homeland of Bophuthatswana. They are defending champion Ian Woosnam of Wales, 1986 winner Mark McNulty of South Mrica, and 1985 champion Bernhard Langer of West Ger­many. 
The favorite is another South African, David Frost, who won two tournaments on the PGA tour and ranks ninth on the PGA's money-winning list. The third South Mrican in the field is Fulton Allem, who just com­pleted his rookie year on the 
U.S. tour. 
Last year, when Woosnam edged fellow Briton Nick Faldo, the tournament used a winner-take-all formula, with only a $50,000 bonus for the daily low round on offer for the losers. 
8p.m. Friday, immediately fol­lowing ·the Virginia-Arizona contest. The losers meet at 2 
p.m. Saturday with the cham­pionship game to follow. 
The Hoyas finished third in the Central Florida Tourna­ment last weekend, losing 63-62 to Western Michigan and downing Baptist 110-12. Senior guard Nikki Arwood paced Georgetown with 26 points in the two contests to make the all-tourney team. She also dished out six assists and had four steals. 
"We saw Georgetown and Virginia play over Thanksgiv­ing, and we were impressed with both of them," McGraw said. 
The host Cavaliers should be the favorite to win the tourney. They were ranked 11th in the preseason Associated Press poll and finished second in the NCAA East Regional last season. 
Virginia won its season opener, 75-53 over St. Peters last weekend. Freshman guard Dawn Stanley, the 1988 USA Today National Player of the Year, led the Cavs with 16 points. Starting forwards Tonya Cardoza (11.4 ppg last year) and Dawn Bryant (7.8 rebounds per game) will return for Virginia. 

I Free 32oz. soda with I
1 I
any 14 inch sub order. I I 
~-DON'T FORGET lOTH INNING SPECIAL 1 EVERYDAY AITER 1OPM 7 INCH SUB, 1I I CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25 I 
II 271-0 SUB I -1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE 
I 


'~---------------~' 

Krzyzewski's 250th victory. In Ray Voelkel of American early his 14th season, and ninth at in the 1978 season. Duke, Krzyzewski is 250-143 Reserve John Smith scored 16 overall and 177-84 with the Blue points for Duke, 3-0. Devils. Reed Lose had 13 points for 
Abdelnaby, a junior, hit his East Carolina, 2-1. 


NOTRE DAME HOCKEY vs MICHIGAN DEARBORN 
Saturday, December 3rd KAZOO NIGHT!!! kazoos will be given out to the first 1000 who enter. 


~~ 
~ 
>age 12 

Irish make plea 
Dear Students, 

On behalf of the Fighting Irish basketball program, we would like to address a serious issue that surfaced through­out Notre Dame's ·home opener against St Bonaventure. 
Throughout the University of Kansas championship season, the Jayhawk student body used the cheer, "Hey, Hey, we're going to beat the heck out of you." The cheer really got the fans, and at times their team, into the game. There are many home games this year, and we want this cheer to be a way to get everyone involved. However, during the course of the St. Bonaventure game, the cheer was used with different four-letter words than "heck." 
We all attend this Catholic institution which stands high because of its tradition, beliefs and integrity. The student body needs to become our sixth man this year. It is as important in representing Notre Dame as the team. But everyone involved in the basketball program hopes we can use this cheer in a positive manner. We invite you to come Tuesday night as we do our best to beat the "heck" out of Indiana. 
The Notre Dame basketball team 
•

Duke, Abdelnaby cru1se 
Associated Press last two shots against Ken­
tucky in the Tipoff Classic, then 
DURHAM, N.C.-Alaa Abdel­hit all eight last Monday naby extended his field goal against The Citadel. The toug­shooting streak to 19 straight hest of the 6-foot-10 Abdel­baskets, scoring 18 points and naby's nine shots against the leading top-ranked Duke to a shorter Pirates was a 15-foot 95-46 victory over East jump hook. Carolina on Wednesday night. The NCAA record for con­
It was Coach Mike secutive baskets is 25, set by 

Miami quarterback Steve Walsh (4) Is among the Mlami-BYU game will keep Walsh from attending top five candidates for the Helsman Trophy. The Saturday's award ceremony. 

Harris among Heisman's top 5 
Associated Press 

MORGANTOWN, W.VA.­West Virginia University quar­terback Major Harris is among the top five vote-getters in this year's balloting for the Reis­man Trophy, awarded an­nually to the top college foot­ball player, school officials said Wednesday. 
"He has been invited to at­tend the award ceremonies," said Shelly Poe, WVU sports in­formation director. "It's a great honor for a sophomore just to be considered." 
Harris led the third-ranked Mountaineers to an 11-0 record and a contest against No. 1 Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2 that could determine the national championship. 
He passed for 1,749 yards and 13 touchdowns and ran for 599 yards and six touchdowns in leading the Mountaineers to their best season ever. 
Poe said Harris and WVU co­ach Don Nehlen will attend the Reisman award ceremony Sat­urday at the Downtown Ath­letic Club in New York. Both are scheduled to participate in a news conference following the presentation. 
Oklahoma State tailback Barry Sanders and quarter­backs Rodney Peete of South­ern California, Troy Aikman of UCLA, and Steve Walsh of Miami also were named finalists by the Downtown A.C. on Wednesday. 
Thursday, December 1, 1988 
Belles drop to 1-1 

with loss 
By KRISTINE GREGORY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles en­countered a tough Loyola Uni­versity basketball team in Chicago on Tuesday. After thirty minutes of close play, Loyola came alive to defeat the Belles 102-65. 
Loyola jumped to an early lead but the Belles fought their way to a 20-20 tie midway through the first half. Saint Mary's could not gain the lead, though, and they found them­selves with a 37-43 halftime score. 
The Belles stayed in the game and were only down by ten points with nine minutes left. The rest of the half was all Loyola though as they out­scored the Belles 34-7. 
Freshman Catherine Res-


to Loyola 
tovich led the Belles in scoring with 17 points. Junior Julie Radke followed close behind with 16 points. 
Loyola outshot Saint Mary's from the field 53 percent to 39 percent. From the charity stripe, Loyola was an impres­sive 82 percent while the Belles shot a respectable 72 percent. 
"Loyola is an excellent bas­ketball team and we played very well against them until the last seven minutes of the game," commented Head Co­ach Marvin Wood. "They have superior depth and size and used it to outplay us in the end." 
The Belles fall to 1-1 in the league. They· play in a Roundball Tournament this weekend with three other area teams. 
~············································~ 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS, INC. 
Cordially invites all members of the student 
body and the rest of the Notre Dame 
campus family to our 11 BIG FOUR 
BASKETBALL CLASSIC" 
Pre-game rally and luncheon to be held in Hall 'E'' of the Convention Center (contingous to the Hoosier Dome) from 
11 :00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. (NO-Louisville tipoff is 4:45 p.m. EST) 
Delicious sandwiches, soft drinks. and munchies. Free raffle drawings for two ND Bearifones compliments of GTE. 
Free admission with student an&or University 10. You are all invited to some Indianapolis ND hospitality. 
Presents: 

The Observer page 13 

West Germany's Boris Becker boomed his way ament with a victory over Sweden's Mats into the semi-finals of the Masters tennis tourn-Wllander. 
Becker booms past Wilander 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Boris Becker used a booming serve to upset top-seeded Mats Wilander 7-6 (9-7), 6-7 Cl-7), 6-1 Wednesday night at the Masters tennis tournament. 
Becker, the No. 4 seed, had 13 aces and 18 service winners in the round-robin match at Madison Square Garden. The West German lost only three points on his first serve. 
"This tournament has a lot to do with pride and prestige," he said. "We are the top eight players and we don't want to lose to each other." 
In an earlier match, eighth­seeded Henri Leconte upset No. 
5 Stefan Edberg 6-4, 6-2. Third­seeded Andre Agassi met No. 7 Tim Mayotte in the final match of the night. 
Becker has been the hottest player on the tour since Wimbledon, winning 19 of 20 matches and three tourna­ments despite an ankle injury and chronic foot problems. 
He played a terrible second­set tiebreaker against Wilander, but regrouped to rout the world's top-ranked player in the final set. 
The win gave Becker a 4-0 record in indoor matches against Wilander, who has been bothered by shin splints since winning the U.S open in September. Three of those vic­tories have come at the Masters, the season-ending toucnament that features the top eight players in the Grand Prix points standings. 
Leconte didn't qualify for the tournament until last week, when he won a tournament in Brussels. But the Frenchman had no problems beating Ed­berg, who hadn't played in al­most a month because of ten­dinitis in both knees. 
In other matches, third­seeded Andre Agassi beat No. 7 Tim Mayotte 6-2, 6-4 and eighth-seeded Henri Leconte upset No. 5 Stefan Edberg 6-4, 6-2. 
Comedian Extraordinaire! 
Among other things, she has opened for the Cosby Show! 
Don't miss her­You will regret it! 
Wednesday Night 9:00 P.M. 

page 14 The Observer 
AP Photo 
Miami's Mark Duper and Dallas' VIctor Scott have after being dealt 30-day suspensions for drug both been sidelined for the rest of the season use. 
Duper suspended for drug use 
Miami receiver, Dallas' Victor Scott out for rest of year 
Associated Press "It's one of the toughest be penalized under the NFL's things I've had to deal with," drug policy. Offensive tackle MIAMI-wide receiver Mark Miami coach Don Shula said. Kevin Gogan was suspended 
Duper's season with the Miami "This hits like a hammer be­for a month near the end of Dolphins ended Wednesday cause of my high regard for training camp. when he and little-used defen­Mark Duper and his contribu­Duper, a seven-year veteran sive back Victor Scott of the tions to this team over the and two-time Pro Bowl per­
Dallas Cowboys were years, and because of my high former, has done work with the suspended for violating the regard for Mark Duper as a "Say No To Drugs" program. NFL's substance abuse policy. human being. Several teammates said they 
The 30-day suspensions Duper, 29, became the first were shocked by the suspen­brought to 24 the number of Miami player to be penalized sion. players suspended for that rea­for substance abuse since 1983. son this season. Scott, 26, also was suspended "Dupe's locker is right next 
Neither the league nor the for 30 days last year for sub­to mine, and I just didn't have teams would say what drugs stance abuse. He became the any idea at all," safety Glenn were involved. second Cowboy this season to Blackwood said. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 



Holtz 

CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 
continued from page 16 
en 
'"C

to Texas A&M in the Cotton IN PREPARATION FOR THE 
m
Bowl last year. 

MAY, 1989 
"This is a different team, a -(') 
)>

different year," he said. "We 
r­

just weren't a real good football CPA EXAMINATION 
CJ)

team at the end of last year. The players hadn't been to a -f bowl and may have looked on it as more of a reward than an INFORMATION MEETING§ opportunity.'' m 
EXTRA POINTS: Notre Dame 
THURSDAY DECEMBER 1, 1988 ~ 
will practice only once between now and Dec. 16 because of 7:00P.M. final exams. Regular practices '"C will be held from Dec. 16-21. ]]
ROOM 122
The players then go home for ­Christmas before HAYES-HEALY CENTER (') again at Tempe, Ariz., Dec. 26 NOTREDAMECAMPUS ~ to begin final preparations for 
the Fiesta Bowl. COLLEGE OF BUSINE 
FIESTA BOWL 
COMPLETE TRAVEL PACKAGE 
See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Mountaineers! 
Your complete travel package includes all of these features: per person quod 
s498 

D Roundtrip airfare from Chicago via Continental Airlines, departing
( 4 people per room) tnple. double or single December 31 and returning January 3, other dates available available on rPqucst 
D Deluxe accommodations at the Ramada Hotel in Tempe, within walking distance of the stadium. 2 double beds, up to 4 to a room.
PremierPasSports 

D Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas, tax, insurance
Oneollhe USA's foremost Sports Trove/ companies The Otfictal Travel Agency otr.'le extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. World Champion LosAngeles Lakers 
D Special Notre Dame gift such as T-shirt, cap or travel bag at our option
J-800•777-3643 For 3shonng. $548 ecx:h. 2 sharmg. 5598 each. ~ngle. $798 Space IS limited at these pnce5 and does NOT mclude Fiesta Bowl Game ticket. wlllch may be avO/Iable at an extra charge Similar /io(e/ may be substituted Standard travel package 1enm apply 
Thursday, December 1, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO Boxing Club is holding a meeting for anyone interested in joining the club or participating in next semester's Bengal Bouts. The meeting will be Tues­day at 5 p.m. in the boxing gym located at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. For more information, call Mike Noone at x3386. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's students interested in skiing should attend a meeting tonight at 7 in the lobby of Holy Cross. 
-The Observer 
NVA basketball referees have a mandatory meeting Monday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication ..-The Observer 

YES, THURSDAY IS 
~([ffi [(J00[[Rf 

SO BRING YOUR SOUVENIER CUP AND STROLL ON OVER ..... 
Friday Lunch 12-2pm 
Sorry, due to technical difficulties, the CLUB IS CLOSED SAT, DEC 3. 
wrnm Gll®\!ILJ~ 
®~ ~~(!J]cQ]@ITU~ ©@ITU~@[J 
ND & St. Mary's Students, Faculty & Employees 
(Video Vendor located next to Student Record Shop downstairs) 




Extraordinaire! 
Thursday: 
Willy Wonka & GROUP SEMINARS -N.D. Room Lafortune The Chocolate Factory Friday:
Friday 12:00 on Sports 
Blues Brothers 
2:00 Losing Weight Saturday: 
3:00 Over Shyness The Gods Must Be Crazy 
4:00 Academic Excellence Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15,$2 
Show at 8:00 and 1 0:00 p.m. Thursday 
Thursday, December 1, 1988 
CAMPUS 
Noon White Center Lecture "The Courts and the Homeless: Gaining Ground?" by Roberg Hayes, National Coalition for the Homeless, Law School Courtroom. 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Lecture "Political Struc­tural Reform: The Process of Democratization in China," by Gao Xian, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Room 101 Law School. 
4 p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar "Radiolytic Oxidation of Halogen Substituted Phenols," by Mingyu Ye, Conference Theatre, Radiation Lab. 
4 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents an Office Visit-Plant Trip Workshop by Marilyn Bury, Hesburgh Li" brary Lounge. 
6 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all students interested in career opportunities with Proc­tor and Gamble <Brarid Management), Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. · 
6 p.m. Benefit Dinner for Advocacy on Behalf of the Homeless with Robert Hayes, National Coalition for the Homeless as guest speaker, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall. 
7 p.m. SMC Madrigal Dinner, Regina North Hall, $17. For reservations call 284-4626. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all students interested in career opportunities with the First Boston Corporation, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
10 p.m. WVFI AM 640 presents Prof. Peter Walsh of Govern­ment and International Studies on Campus Perspectives. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cheese Steak Sandwich Pork Cutlet Veal Marengo Beef Pot Pie Pork Tenderloin Cheese Blintzes Stuffed Shells Deli Bar 
COMICS . 
Bloom County 

Jerks 

I --·------.. -. 
i Ga Conrad 
I 

Hypnotist 

The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Flies, mice, etc. 48 Chinese dynasty 31 Sebaceous 49 Overbearing
1 With 12 Across, old hymn cysts 52 Japanese statesman:
33 Water or river5 Mergapser 1841·1909follower 
9 Race part 53 Kind of ink34 Capuan's

12 See 1 Across country 56 Bill for a 
.. 

13 July 4 event carpenter?
38 "The -of St. 16 Ratite bird Agnes" 
58 Augusta golf tournament17 Refuge 39 Cloth for 60 -in (weary) sheeting18 Confused 61 Bow and Barton41 King topper19 Scull implement 63 Macaws42 Legendary20 Whenever 64 Singer Peggy horse 
22 Divided coin? 
65 Beliefs 

44 Muscle: Comb. 24 Macho ones , form 66 Actor Wilder 
25 Norwegian coin 67 Rockies time: 
45 Sights in Sedan Abbr.
27 Chutzpah 
46"-­
68 Victim 

28Grampus everybody?" 69 Redact 
... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 
1 A certain Shore 
2 Vernon's partner L-....L.---L­3Inherited wealth? 15 Descendant of 35 Cleaned filthy 48 Towel word 4 Game dogs Esau lucre? 
49 Sacred song 5 G. I. ration 21 Business abbr. 36 Frozen water 
50 Chest rattles 6 Reconstructed 23-fide 
37 Loser to D.D .E. 
51 Baby bird of 1 Kind of shrew 26 Russian coin? 
39 Subject of a TV prey 8 Matthau or Scott 30 Currency in ad 
54 Citizen of Jask 9 German pope: Cyprus 
40 Robots 55 Talent or wealth
1049-54 31 Arachnid's 43"Rub--. 57-Elum, city 
1-:-1-=-t-:=:-t-=t-=t"!~ -=+-=+~=+:::+:::~+-=--~ 1 o Fine fiddle ambush 
in Wash. 

45 Kind of point 59 Vice prin. 
-:t-=t:=:+.::-i 11 Treasury 32 Stowe tot 
Ro:+=+:=~ 14 Morning 33 The Venerable 47 Former Chinese moisture -province 62 Old car 
/ 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
"Well, I'll be! Eggbeater must have missed that one." 
Sports 
Thursday, December 1, 1988
page 16 

Offensive ljne, WVU have Holtz worried 

By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has not taken an opposing team lightly since the season began, and he is not about to start now. 
Believe it or not, Holtz holds third-ranked West Virginia in high regard as he plans ahead for the Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl. 

"They may be the best foot­ball team in the country," said Holtz, whose 11-0 Irish held onto the No. 1 ranking with a 27-10 victory over USC this past weekend. 
''Just observing them against Pittsburgh and Penn State," Holtz continued, "they were much more impressive against those two teams and beat them much easier than we did." 
But if the Irish were less im­
pressive against the Panthers 
and Nittany Lions than West 
Virginia was, the Notre Dame 
defense certainly turned (and 
jarred) some heads with its 
Irish pass their first major test 

By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
With 11 minutes to play in its season opener against Northwestern Tuesday night, the women's basketball team got its first big test. 
Senior All-America can­didate Heidi Bunek picked up her fourth foul and was forced to go the bench. The Irish mananged to hang on, hitting several crucial free throws in the late minutes for a 75-63 over the Wildcats in Welsh-Ryan Arena. 
Second-year coach Muffet McGraw was happy to escape with the win, but said someone has to take over inside when Bunek gets in foul trouble. 
"When Heidi got into foul trouble, that was a real prob­lem," McGraw said. "We need a freshman who can step in and score from the block, but we did use our speed well with a couple of bursts in the second half." 
With the youth and inexperi­ence on this year's Irish squad, McGraw expected a slow start in Notre Dame's first game, es­pecially since it was on the road. After all, sophomore Karen Robinson was playing her first game at point guard and sophomore forward Krissi Davis was starting her first col­legiate game. 
The Irish, however, came out hot, taking an early 16-6 lead. The Wildcats rallied, using a half-court trap to cut the lead to 34-31 at the half. 
When Bunek picked up her fourth foul, the Wildcats 
See BUNEK, page 11 

hard hitting against the Trojans. But the Irish defense is not Holtz's main concern with one game standing in the way of a national champion­ship. 
"Offensively, I was excep­tionally disappointed," Holtz said. "We have some problems in the offensive line and in our ability to move the football on a consistent basis. We just aren't very good on the offen­sive line, and if you can't run the football, you're only kid­ding yourself." 
Holtz credited the Southern Cal defense, which ranked first in the country against the rush entering the game, but com­pared the West Virginia defense to both USC and Mic­higan. 
"Defensively, you're looking at two very comparable teams," Holtz said when sizing up the Mountaineers· and the Irish. Offensively, because of their line and receivers, I think you're looking at a team super­ior to us at the present time." 
Holtz said he does not expect 
AP Photo
a repeat bowl performance from the Irish, who lost 35-10 West VIrginia quarterback Major Harris will attend battling for the national championship Jan. 2 
See HOLTZ, page 14 the Helsman trophy ceremony Saturday before against Notre Dame In the Fiest Bowl. 
' 

ND to face nation's best in Las Vegas Invitational 
Durso was named Outstanding Wrestler in the tournament while winning the 134-pound title. Durso also won his lOOth­career victory for Notre Dame. 
"I'm pleased with the way we wrestled in St. Louis. We are not getting intimidated anymore and I expect nothing but improvement," said McCann. 
McCann is expecting four wrestlers to draw seeds in the top five for Las Vegas. Durso, Andy Radenbaugh, Pat Boyd, and Chris Geneser all should be seeded in the important top bracket. Sophomore Mark Gerardi, who is suffering from an inflamed knee, should also have a good shot at a title this year. 
"Mark is undoubtedly the most talented wrestler we have and if he can overcome his in­jury and compete at 100 per­cent, he definitely has the abil­ity to place," said McCann. 
The Irish will be without the services of freshman 190­pounder Tom Salvino who has an injured knee that might re­quire surgery. He will be replaced by Curt Engler. Otherwise, Notre Dame will use its usual starters. 
Freshmen Marcus Gowens and Chuck Weaver will get their first taste of a major tournament, while sophomores Todd Layton and Todd Tomazic will try to improve on their record and possibly suprise a few people with their performance. 
"Nothing can stop us but our­selves," said McCann. "We are capable of beating anyone on any given day, especially in Vegas." 

By GREG SCHECKEN­BACH Sports Writer 
Las Vegas means gambling, cheating and fun for most people, but for the 19th-ranked Notre Dame wrestling team it means blood, destruction and, maybe, a little bit of fun. 
The wrestling team will put all the chips on the table this weekend in the Las Vegas In­vitational tournament. The tournament is the second big­gest in the country, with all the top teams represented, and is only outshined by the NCAA finals. Ten of the .top twenty teams will be in competition in­cluding defending NCAA champion Oklahoma State. 
"Las Vegas is a great tourn­ament for the guys because it is exactly like the NCAA tourn­ament and we will gain added experience in pressure situa­tions," said Head Coach Fran McCann. "We'll even get a chance to see some teams that we would, otherwise, only see in nationals." 
Last year the Irish placed lOth in Las Vegas and are ex­pected to do even better this year due to practice over the Thanksgiving Holidays. 
"This is the first year that we have kept our guys over Thanksgiving Break to prac­tice. Ordinarily, we don't do that, but we really think we can accomplish something with this group in Las Vegas," stated McCann. "I think we can improve to about sixth in the 
tournament." 

Notre Dame is fresh off a suc­cessful tournament in St. Louis where they captured many 
1ors. Senior Co-captain Jerry 





