

IACCENT: Foreign experiences 
IVIEWPOINT: A dangerous partnership 


VOL. XXII, NO. 32 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Released Lebanon hostage: 'No substitute for freedom' 
Associated Press freed Monday night in Beirut Singh said Tuesday he felt American military hospital in 
and driven to Damascus by "wonderful" and added: Wiesbaden, West Germany, for DAMASCUS, syria -Indian Syrian army officers, then "Thank God I'm free, but I'm a medical checkup. Professor Mithileshwar Singh turned over to U.S. ambassa­very sorry that my colleagues "Our plans, depending on said Tuesday his kidnappers dor Edward Djerjian. and friends are still in cap­logistical arrangements, are to treated him well during 20 tivity. I hope they'll be free transport him to Wiesbaden for months as a hostage in His release Monday leaves soon." further medical checks and Lebanon, but "there is no sub­nine Americans and seven then on to the U.S., " Djerjian 
stitute for freedom" and he other foreigners still in the When asked about the condi­said. grieves for those still held. hands of extremist Moslem kid­tions under which he was held, 
/ 
nappers in Lebanon. Held he said: "The treatment was He said Singh had asked to Singh, a 60-year-old resident longest is Terry Anderson, better than I had expected, but be allowed to rest, and "given alien of the United States, was chief Middle East correspon­there's no substitute to the circumstances, he is feeling 
reunited with his wife, Lal­dent of The Associated Press, freedom in this world." relatively well." A syrian doc­mani, at the U.S. embassy on who was abducted March 16, A special U.S. Air Force tor pronounced him fit to ,,Fl Tuesday afternoon. He was 1985. plane arrived to take him to an travel. 

Chileans go to the polls; Pinochet, foes confident 
Associated Press Roman Catholic Church offi­create a pretext for declaring 
cials of violence by Pinochet an emergency and curfew, per­SANTIAGO, Chile -Voters supporters on election day. haps with the goal of annullingdeclare today whether they He accused the opposition of the results. 
want Gen. Augusto Pinochet as spreading "unfounded Cardemil said there were no presid_ent for eight more years, rumors" and told a news con­plans to declare an emergencyand his opponents predict the ference any violence would be or, as some people fear, to re­decision will be no. organized by the extreme left. quire that television and radio 
Authorities say they will Opposition leaders, the stations broadcast only official keep strict order. church and the U.S. state De­information, but he added: "I Alberto Cardemil, an Inte­partment said Monday they can't make any assurances." 
rior Ministry undersecretary, had information that pro­"Every measure will be dismissed fears expressed by government provocateursthe political opposition and might carry out attacks to see CHILE, page 6 
,,
'Miami Week' plans given to HPC \ 
By MISSY WEBER combining of athletics with basketball scrimmage starting z-4 " Staff Reporter academics. at midnight. Dan Jansen, win­$ Spiritual Day is on Tuesday ner of the Spirit of the Olympic ~ "::~ •·· 
Plans for the upcoming sponsored by the Fellowship of Games Award this past winter, "Miami Week" were presented Christian Athletes. will be present at halftime 5 \ by George McGowan and Nutrition Day is on Wednes­when Notre Dame begins the -Bubba Cunningham from the day with the dining halls tradition of awarding a Spirit
athletic department to the Hall showing videos on nutrition all of Notre Dame Award. Presidents' Council at last day. The week concludes with the night's meeting. Thursday will begin the ath­Miami game on Saturday.
letics of the week with a soccer The Hall Presidents' Council 
They gave an outline of the game and a baseball game is backing the athletic depart­week and stressed the need for against Miami. ment in its desire to make the positive spirit at Notre Dame Basketball Rollout Day is week a classy one. "HPC is 
Opportunity knocks The Observer I Zoltan Ury
during the week. Friday, starting with a picnic, promoting positive aspects of Academic Day is on Monday pep rally, dance, a basketball Mary Bridget Silk collects information during Post Graduate Opportunities featuring a panel to discuss the highlights presentation, and see HPC, page 6 Night today at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Burtchaell tells freshmen to consider Arts and Letters 
By CATHY GLENN that while many of the disci­News Staff plines in the College of Arts and Letters have no direct applica­
Speaking to a predominantly tion, they are "directed at you freshman audience Tuesday ... at enjoyment." night, Father James Burtchaell The Freshman Year of addressed the benefits of Studies, according to choosing a major in the College Burtchaell is a time when of Arts and Letters. "you're shopping for what you 
Burtchaell said that most like," and not a time when one students who come to a univer­should be trying to double-think sity that offers a liberal arts the future. "You have the ca­education "don't have the pability and obligation to live nerve to want it." a life of the mind," Burtchaell 
He stressed to the students to said. "believe in your mind" and While the College of Arts and pursue what interests you. If Letters offers "opportunities
<, _;"'....... 
II>. you do this, Burtchaell said, for enjoyment and not much you will get a responsible else," Burtchaell said that jobs liberal education. such as law and banking are 
The Observer I Zoltan Ury
Advocating the "Pleasure Principle," Burtchaell said see A_RTS, page 5 Father James Burtchaell 

The Observer I Zoltan Ury 
Stanford Hall freshmen Chris Infante (left) and Mike Ferguson listen to Father Burtchaell as part of the Freshman Lecture Series. 
----------------~-------­
Wednesday, October 5, 1988
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



We need more Trees at Notre Dame 
IN BRIEF , 
Actor Barry Williams Perhaps best known as eldest son Greg on television's "The Brady Bunch," is going to Broadway, in the show "Romance, Romance." Williams joins the show Thursday for the remainder of its run, according to publicist JoAnne Pentangelo. Later this year, he will appear with his video siblings in "A very Brady Christmas," a reunion show. -Associated Press 
To end sludge dumping by 1993, the House on Tuesday passed a much-debated bill that bans the dumping of sewage sludge in the ocean after 1992. The measure, adopted by a 416-0 vote, sets a Dec. 31, 1992 deadline on sludge dumping by the nation's only remaining practitioners: nine sewage authorities located in New York and New Jersey. The compromise bill, climaxing a 10-year legislative effort, must now be reconciled with a differing version passed by the Senate in August. -Associated Press 
More than 10 percent of Indiana's drought-stricken corn crop contains excessive levels of a fungus that can cause cancer in humans, although the state chemist said Tuesday the situation is not critical. Purdue University scientist Alan R. Hanks, who serves as state chemist, said 11 of 98 samples of corn taken from buyers around the state contained levels of the carcinogen, known as aflatoxin, that exceed federal standards for human consumption. -Associated Press 


OFINTEREST · 
Saint Mary's Fall Fest Picnic coex's for all ND students can be picked up in both dining halls today for the Saint Mary's Fall Fest Picnic Oct. 6, 4:30-6:15. -The Observer 
Fireside chat today at 12:15-ISO Lounge, 2nd floor in Lafortune. Speaker: Prof. Jay Dolan, Topic: The Irish: A Special People. Free lunch provided. -The Observer 
Culture on the quad today 12-1 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall, Italian Club, Japan Club. -The Observer 
Ethnic entertainment on Fieldhouse Mall today at 
4:30 featuring Paul Harren, bagpiper. -The Observer 
Hospitality Lunch changed from Thursday, Oct. 6 to Thursday, Oct. 13, 11:30-1 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Thai food will be served. -The Observer 
Program in Global Community will hold an 
information session about studying in Cuernavca, Mexico, 
spring term '89, on Thursday, at 12 noon and 4: 30 pm at 
the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Kentucky Club will hold an organizational meeting 
for any resident of Kentucky or Southern Indiana in the 
basement of Zahm Hall at 7 pm. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................... Alison Cocks Typist .. . . . . .. .. .. . . . . .. .. . . .. . . .. .. .. Val Poletto Design Assistant .. .. . . . .. . . .. . . Kathy Gliwa ND Day Editor ................... Sandy Roth Typesetters .......................... Mike Kolar SMC Day Editor ... Sarah Demet ............ Mark "Mr. Personals" Ridgeway Ads Designer .................... Jeff Stelmach News Editor......... Cronin, the Archdruid ............................................. Karen Ruff Copy Editor ................. Christine Walsh .......................................... Elisa Arriago Sports Copy Editor............... Pete Gegen ................................ Shannon McAllister ....................................... Molly Mahoney Sports Wednesday Editor. Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor. Cindy Broderick Sports Wednesday Dude ..... Matt Breslin 
Tille Olllener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tille 0'-"er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tille Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465S6. 
Tille Olleener is a member of Tille Mloclaled Praa. All reproduction ripts are reserved. 

The tree is smarter than I am. 
Which tree? The goofy one that is Stanford's pseudo-mascot. Why? Office rumor has it that the Tree got into Stanford and I didn't. I will neither confirm nor deny that. 
But the Tree has something over all of us at Notre Dame: a school with a sense of humor. Or at least enough tolerance to let the students develop their own. 
Stanford's band impressed me at the game last weekend. While I heard a few snide remarks in the stands, the number of students who hung around for post-game even after the Notre Dame Marching Band left would seem to indicate students besides me were interested in seeing a non-conservative school band do silly things on a football field. 
Our band, in comparison, seemed rather staid with its rendition of "Amazing Grace" at the half. This is not a slight on the band--the root of the problem is deeper than that. 
Notre Dame seems to have that stuffiness 
you normally find at country clubs and high society cotillions. This is not necessarily a bad thing; in fact, it's nice to have really classy events like Junior Parents' Weekend, Freshman Mass and Commencement. We probably will never lose that class, knock on wood. 
But do we have to have it all the time? 
Notre Dame needs to branch out more. What other schools' students would actually stop pro­testing because the university president told them to, as Notre Dame students did during the Vietnam years? Is there any other school in the country with a higher percentage of blue sport coat owners? 
There was a spark that was very obvious in the Stanford band, something creative and en­ergetic and imaginative. Notre Dame's reac­tion to this was so very typical: surround it with a wall (of ushers in this case) and don't let it anywhere near the students. God forbid, it might be contagious. 
I can hear the administration, and probably many students too, protesting under their breath with words like "immature," "weird," "rebellious," and "stupid." Perhaps they're right. But if we don't do these things while we're in college, we certainly won't do them once we get out. 
We'll probably all turn sixty-five years old with no stories to tell and lots of bitterness that we didn't do enough things that we weren't sup­posed to. 
Stanford seems to have picked up on this. The LSJUMB (the name of Stanford's band, I have no idea wh ) is norman a lot rowdier than 
Mark Me Laughlin 
News Editor 



they were at Notre Dame Stadium, but good old Notre Dame asked them to tone it down. Or so I'm told. Whether this is true or not is im­material. The fact that no one around here would be surprised to hear it tells us enough. 
Notre Dame students usually cave in whenever the administration starts talking about image and the "psychological well-being of the community." Yes, Father, whatever you say. That sort of behavior got George Bush branded a lapdog. 
We do not hear, however, stories about how Stanford is going to expel all their students be­cause they were unbecoming to the image of the University and perhaps had a few too many while they were about it. 
One nice thing about Miami is that it seems to have stirred up at least a little spirit at Notre Dame. A profit-motivated spirit, perhaps, but spirit nonetheless. Sure, some of the T-shirts are rude. We won't all be struck by lightning tomorrow. Neither, hopefully, will all Miami T -shirt wearers be referred to the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. 
Wake up and smell the coffee, Notre Dame. Other schools' students are being immature weird, rebellious and stupid, while we'r~ barking up the wrong tree. 
LAST YEA117,SI4 HIGH SCHOOL mDENTS STOPPED DRilliNG AID DRIVING. 
--1!1-­
Sainl Mary'S Collel!l' 
NOTft£ DAM£ INot.\'ilA, 
,adapted by ILEWIS 6ALANTIERE from the play by JEAN ANOUILH 
.,., 

costume and scene deslg1 by LINDA H. WIGLEY lighting by TRJMA!i W. WHIPKEY October 5 • 6 • 7 • 8 at 8:10 October 9, at3:10 O'Laughlln Audltor'lum Box Offl[:e i!B4-46i!6 
'A Notre OameiSalnt Mary's ThE!atre production !presented by 'ialnt Mary's College ~ment. ofCommunication li Theatre 


Wednesday, October 5, 1988 
The Observer 


Career Day open to all today 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN The experts are mainly from sion). Some other areas to be the midwest, and represent presented are Federal Govern­
News Staff 
businesses, industries, and ment, graphic design, perform­
Career and Placement Ser­other areas, as well as post ing arts and public relations. vices will be sponsoring its an­graduate opportunities. nual Arts and Letters Career No interviews will be con­Day on Wednesday, Oct. 5 from The annual Arts and Letters ducted and resumes are not Noon to 4 p.m. in the lower level Career Day is in its tenth year. needed. This is mainly an in­of the Center for Continuing It is the largest event of Career formation gathering session. Education. Placement Services. This year, Non-Arts and Letters students 
According to Paul Reynolds, two new careers are being pre­esp~ci8:11Y Business majors:associate director of Career sented: nonprofit services or­are mv1ted to attend, Reynolds 
and Placement Services, this is ganizations and the legal said. actually a "career fair," where profession. sophomore, junior, and senior Reynolds stressed that the liberal arts students can obtain The most popular careers in Career Day is open to sop­information about various previous Career Days have homores as well as juniors and careers and industries, and been publishing, advertising, seniors. "It is never too early have their questions answered commercial banking, and com­to begin thinking about career by experts in various fields. munications (radio and televi-possibilities.'' 

ND professor speaks to Senate committee 
By MAURA KRAUSE who were invited because they flexibility." In his te~timony, Staff Reporter had been active in constitu­Rice stated "the Resolution im­tional issues," he said. poses on the President Notre Dame Law Professor Rice was a lawyer on the detailed, inflexible prescrip­

Charles Rice testified on the Senator Gold vs. Carter case in tions." War Powers Resolution before 1979 which dealt with the ter­a U.S. Senate Committee on mination of the defence treaty The Senate Committee is also September 29. with Taiwan. working to establish what ex­
Rice, in his testimony called The War Powers Resolution actly is meant by section 3 "the the War Powers Resolution "an is a law which permits the pres­president in every possible in­imprudent and probably un­ident to declare war and enter stance shall consult with consitutional restraint on armed forces into hostilities to Congress before introducing Presidential authority and that combat sudden attacks. The the United States Armed Go Irish, Beat 'Canes 
The Observer 1 Zoltan Ury

it ought to be repealed. War Powers Resolution has Forces into hostilities ... " Es­"In its fifteen year of opera­been under scrutiny for tablishing what is meant by Sinead Rigney (right), Kathleen Kelly (left) and the rest of the squad 
tion, the War Powers Resolu­"months and will most likely "hostilities" and "consult" has workout during cheerleading practice at the ACC yesterday. tion has focused attention on still be under scrutiny months become a major part of the sen­sterile questions of procedure from now," said Rice. ate committes objective. and on essentially unresolved 
Poll shows Quayle hurting 
questions of constitutionality," One of the main questions the Several bills concerning the Rice said. Senate Committee seeks to an­War Powers Resolution "have 

Bush popularity in Illinois 
Rice was asked to testify swer is "what power does the been proposed and several are 
Associated Press with 33 percent expressingbefore the Senate Committee president have?" said Rice. currently under consideration. 
no opinion.
because he was one of many "The exact problem is how to The hearings are still continu­
"lawyers and academic types preserve the presidents in ," said Rice. 
Nations accused of human rights abuse 
Associated Press Amnesty, which won the more than a sham," the 278­
Nobel Peace Prize in 1977, re­page report said. LONDON -Amnesty Interna­corded abuses last year in "In at least a third of the tional on Wednesday accused a more than 80 percent of the 159 world's nations, men, women record 135 nations of human U.N. member states. But it said and even children are tortured. rights abuses ranging from the it was encouraged by the emer­In scores of countries, govern­jailing of draft evaders in West­gence of more than 1,000 ments pursue their goals by ern Europe to the massacre of human rights groups in recent kidnapping and murdering unarmed civilians in Iraq and years and the proliferation of their own citizens.'' Sudan. laws to protect prisoners' 
The international human rights. · It added: "More than ever rights group said the list of of­"In at least half the countries before in world history, govern­fenders in its annual survey of the world, people are locked ments are exposed to the glare was the longest it has published away for speaking their minds, of international publicity -the since its establishment in 1961. often after trials that are no greatest wea on we have." 
CHICAGO -Nearly a fourth The poll was based on a of Illinois' registered voters telephone survey of 1,068 say Dan Quayle's vice registered Illinois voters presidential candidacy conducted Sept. 27-28. It has makes them less likely to a margin of error of plus or vote for Republican George minus 3 percent. Bush in November, accor­ding to a poll published Tues­Twenty-four percent of 
day. those surveyed said Quayle's choice makes them 
Quayle received a favor­less likely to vote for Bush able rating from 39 percent in the November election, in­of the state's voters, com­cluding 17 percent of Repub­pared with a 37 percent un­lican voters, 25 percent of in­favorable rating, with 24 dependent voters, and 29 percent of the voters percent of so-called Reagan expressing no opinion, ac­Democrats who voted for cording to a Chicago Sun­President Reagan in 1984, Times-Channel 7 Poll con­according to the poll. ducted by the Gallup Organization. Only 6 percent of the 
By contrast, the Demo­Republicans, 7 percent of cratic vice presidential can­the independents, and 6 per­didate, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen cent of the Reagan of Texas, was rated Democrats said Quayle's favorably by 47 percent of nomination makes them the state's voters, un­more likely to vote for the favorably by 20 percent, Republican ticket. 
~--THE THOMAS J.---­
\ V lHITE CENTER WFORLAWAND--­GOVERNMENT 
Presents A Lecture By 
Professor Franklin E. Zimring University of California at Berkley School of Law 
On "Waiver, Capital Punishment, and the Jurisprudence of Juvenile Justice" 
Noon Friday, October 7 
~--~-~-­
page 4 


Abortion protests try to close clinics 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Police carried or roughly dragged about 360 anti­abortion demonstrators away from three clinics Tuesday, making good on a threat of gloves-off treatment for a planned week of similar protests. 
Some of the sit-in protesters screamed or cried as they were hauled off and left in piles by jail bus doors to be carried aboard by other officers. 
Many supporters watching the arrests sobbed or prayed quietly. Others sang hymns or songs from the civil rights movement. 
Police asked the demonstrators if they would walk to the buses and dragged them there when they would not. 
Since summer, hundreds of anti-abortion protesters in At­lanta have identified them­selves upon arrest as Baby John Doe or Baby Jane Doe. 
Since authorities will not release people on bond without identification, those arrested have caused crowded jails. Three summer demonstrators remain jailed, one for more demonstrating in Atlanta on July 19 during the Democratic National Convention and con­tinued to do so through the sum­mer, landing more than 750 people in jail. 


At two locations police used disposable plastic handcuffs on those arrested and in one case tackled a man who had been loaded into a van but tried to escape. 
Some were urged along by police putting thumbs under the ears and lifting. The demonstrators offered no resis­tance, and most remained limp while they were carried off. 
A few officers were in riot gear or on horseback. 
Operation Rescue, which has opened what it says is a per­manent office in Atlanta, charged that excessive force was used. 
Gene Guerrero, executive director of the state chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, who watched the ar­rests, said, "I've been to a lot of demonstrations and I've seen a lot of police brutality. I haven't seen that today." 
Police officials announced last week that they would not use the relatively gentle arrest 
than 70 days. methods they used during the 
Abortion Protest 
AP Photo
The stated aim of the protests convention. 

Tuesday was to close the clinics Police tactics already had 
Atlanta police restrain and drag an anti-abortion in downtown Atlanta on Tuesday.
for the day, although some wo­grown rougher during the sum­
protester from the Atlanta SurgiCenter abortion clinic
men entered at least one clinic mer as a series of anti-abortion during the protests. The sit-ins taxed city and county re­demonstrators did not enter the sources, costing more than Fryer barred Operation Res­with a $500 fine for each viola­the clinics. Operation Rescue buildings. $500,000 in police overtime, jail cue from "harassing or as­tion. lawyer Bob Fierer said he 
The protests were organized expenses and court time. saulting" anyone going to or The judge ordered lawyers would not negotiate because his by Operation Rescue, a New Late Tuesday, Fulton County from any abortion clinic or from both sides to agree on how clients do not intend to obey the York-based group that started Superior Court Judge Joel from recruiting others to do so, close demonstrators can go to order. 

~~--·-----~-~~·"""""'! 
U.S.-Soviet Relations: § 
I § 

Two Journalists' Views 
~ 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) ~ Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 10 p.m. WHERE: JACC TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff $6-adults 
Tickets should be purchased in advance. 

On sale at Dining Halls During Lunch 9-5 JACC, Gate 10 
Reception--at Snite Atrium Thursday, Oct. 6, 5-6 pm Sponsored by Hall fellows 
All Are Welcome!! 
-

Wednesday, October 5, 1988 The Observer page 5 
------~----~---~ ---~--­




Nuclear plant mishaps hidden .. 
Associated Press not been mformed of the m_cl­
dents, but on Monday Semor WASHINGTON -Serious mis-Department Spokesman C. An­haps over 28 years at a govern-son Franklin said those ment plant in South Carolina statements were incorrect and that produces materials for nu-that the incidents had been re­clear weapons were kept secret ported to the department's for national security reasons regional office in Aiken. and not reported to Washing-He said that the information ton, federal officials said Tues-apparently had not been day. relayed to headquarters from 
But the situation is changing, the regional office. in part due to pressure from The reactors at Savannah Congress, they said. River were closed after the 
E.l. du Pont Nemours & co. most recent incident, in Au­runs the Savannah River gust, and had been scheduled facility under contract for the to reopen on Tuesday. But En­energy department. The plant, ergy Department officials as­which has five reactors, sured members of Congress produces plutonium and last week that production tritium, which are used in would not resume until safety making nuclear weapons. was assured, possibly after 30 
According to a 1985 to 45 days. memorandum, 30 "reactor in-"If they restart those things cidents of the greatest sig-without having briefed us and nificance" occurred there and without having convinced us were not disclosed to the they have solved the safety and public. health issues, they will be in 
One of the most serious was serious trouble in the the melting in November 1970 Congress," said Rep. Mike of a rod used to start an atomic Synar, D-Okla.. chain reaction, causing radio-One senior Energy Depart­active contamination of an ad-ment official has compared the jacent room. It took 900 people attitude toward safety at the three months to clean up the Savannah River facility near contamination, according to Aiken, S.C., to that which led the memo, which does not to the explosion of the shuttle specify whether radioactivity Challenger on Jan. 28, 1986. escaped from the facility. "There has always been· a 
Energy Department officials mind set, a culture, that we are said on Friday that they had doing work that is important 

A guard of honor with 6 West German policemen is standing at the coffin with the body of Bavarian Prime Minister Franz Josef Strauss in St. Pius Church at Regensburg, Bavaria Tuesday morning. 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 To rHe HorrE'ST"MAN IN HOLY'"CAOS·s~:Hev 
PFAFF HERE'S YOUR PERSONAL 
........................................................ 
MA.UFiEE·N·· FiNNIGAN (a.k.a. POOKIE BEAR), Thanks for the personal, but I am not your SNUGGLE BUNNY and, by the way, when are you going to do 
something besides steal my heart? 

MULTICUL TUAAL FALL FESTIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL FIRESIDE CHAT SPEAKER: PROF. JAY DOLAN TOPIC: THE IRISH: A SPECIAL PEOPLE 12:15 ISO LOUNGE 
FREE LUNCH PROVIDED MUL TICUL TUAAL FALL FESTIVAL MUL TICULTUAAL FALL FESTIVAL 
................................ 

...............iii:riclii:ruiiAi:.iiii.L FESTIVAL 
MULITCULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL ETHNIC ENTERTAINMENT TODAY: PAUL HARREN-BAGPIPER 4:36-FIELDHOUSE MALL ............a.i.iii:T'icui:ruiiAi:··;;iii:'i:';;E"sriv.iii:··········· 
LOOK FOR COMING EVENTS ... 

;;v·~··,~~;·;h;·s:ru·;.;·;;i·P",;~;·h;i~i·i;·;~·-;:;:·i~;;g·~iih 
one eye and answers to 'STUMP'. nalso is a family heirloom, so if found please call TO at 288-4036. 
...........................;................ 

"G'l:ow:iN:THE:DARK NOTRE DAME T-SHIRTS ON SALE AT BOTH DINING HALLS They make great Columbus Day gifts! 
M~~~~:·H·~~~·;··~;·;y··~-~~·d~y:·H~pp~·Birthd~Yi·w·~ 
Love You, 
From California, Oscar 
& Siegfried, Mari 
It is Dan Tower's Day 

····--""(jj{~y:~jj'~~;d·it;i;-~-iiiii;;";;;~;;··~iii~.......... 
"DIPPIN' & SAPPIN'" Don't mix In PANGBORN!! Will there be a KING SAP? WE think a Triple-Crown Is in the makingl 

1:1icfiAEii::j:j;;pj;y--·ia··;;;;;~ii;;;··;;;d·23"d;;Y';ii.i"i;;~~ 
you, your extremely spontaneous girlfriend. So... 
··················woii'iie.iiRii:-voiiN'ii.oiiE":····............ 
Our days apart are seemingly years. I missed you mon. eve. I anxiously awail your presence and the beginning of our romance, thurs. eve., at the grotto, 8 p.m. respond here lhurs. If I am to see you. -TRUE 
& BLUE 
HEY NORTH QUO QUEENS 

ALL HAIL THE KINGI FEAR NOT HIS CROWN JEWELS; HE WILL WORK DEALS WITH YOUI 
:ri~k~i·i~·c;;;9·i~i~~;;·;;;;-;,;··sa·~~-o;;i-15:·c;,;·s;;~. 
272-1089 
ii·y-~~·;;~·~;·,i;;;g·N~i~~·o~;;;~:a~d'.··c;~;t;~ii~:;;;:·c;;;;. 
victs, or any other T-shlrts, call John at 2089. 
N'iie'ii"2''i.liiiiAi''oii;s;··;z-·iiiC·ii··o"A;s:ciii.A'NN 
2.,.5344 

iie'sp'efii\re'Lv··Ne·eo'Fii6'e''To'8ui='Fiii:o"Fcifi 
OCTOBER BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL JEN 284-5055 OR 5056. 
Arts 
continued from page 1 
among the careers into which Arts and Letters majors enter. 
Burtchaell reminisced about his days as an undergraduate when he would see students cramming for exams. It revolted him to see students trying to learn all the informa­tion for a class the night before an exam. He advocated keeping up in classes in order to truely learn and master the material, he added. 
Burtchaell said that a stu­dent educated in the liberal arts "will say more when he speaks, hear more when he lis­tens and see more when he in­spects." 
Freshmen attending the lec­ture seemed to be encouraged by Burtchaell's words. 
Jill Jankowski, a freshman who intends to be a pre-med Arts and Letters major said, "I feel better about it (her major choice) after that." 
Becky Erickson echoed Burtchaell's words when she said "Now I'll do something I enjoy." 
CHICAGO BUS TRIP--"Windy City ShuHie" spon­sored by the Student Activities Office, will run this Saturday, October 8. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 9:45am and return al 10pm. Tickets are available at the Information Desk, 1st ftoor LaFortune lor $10. Next Shuttle will run Saturday, October 29. 
....................................................... 
ITALIAN CLUB SHIRTS ARE HEREIII TODAY AT FIELDHOUSE MALL 12:00 to 1:00 110 OR: call VIenna at x1833 

.................................................................................. 
KEARA: Thank you so much for being such a special friend! You sure know how to make someone smile. 1hope someday I cen return the favor. Love always, Tara 
FAC FAC FAC At1entlon ell loyal FAC membera The FAC will NOT be meeting thla Frtdeylll 

Dear Mr. X, 
Please idenlify yourself! 
...your 4 honest chicks on campus 
................................................................ 
Need ride to Miami of Ohio this Fri 10'7 call Jack 3451 
............................................................................... 
THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FAU BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. 
LOP, I will always love you, even n you become a janHor. Things can only get beHer. I love you I.e. P.S.-ng S.K. 
THREE SENSITIVE MEN P,T&R AT 1ST I THOUGHT U JUST LIKED ME CAUSE OF MY CAR BUT WHEN IT CAME TO THE TEST, YOU ENDED UP THE BEST 
A YOU RANK HIGHEST IN THE CART FOR SEN­SITIVITY SMART T-JAM YOU MUST KNOW: STALLIONS RANK LOW 
LOVE, THE WET WOMAN OF WALSH 

tiiii:P"i·i·;;;;;;d·~·-;;d;·!~·;;iii~;gi;·;;;;·o;;i:·;·;;·;;:sAf. 
lollowing the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141 
i--ii-iiiie·ii··2··;;E:iiN··s:r:··a•··~··NO'wi ..i..Wii:·.::·'P4¥ 
GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CAU JASON AT x4141. --.........................i.IAR'i<'T',i;vLoFi: .......................... . 
II you !ouch Darla with your mace I'll squash you like a bugl II you even look at her again, you're hamburger. BUTCH 
..............................!~~~~:~.-~--~u,u~;~~ ..boyfrl~~) 
OJ, Please meet me tonighl at 10:30, 3rd floor Hag­gar (SMC). 
.................................................................................. 
MISTAKE# 1: TWENTY BEERS WHILE TAILGAT­ING. MISTAKE# 2: 6 SHOTS OF JD. MISTAKE# 
3: I LOST MY I.D. IF YOU SPOTTED MY MICHIGAN LICENSE EITHER AROUND ALUMNI OR DEMAUDE STREET AND ARE A NICE PERSON, YOU'LL CALL SOON.4337 ASK FOR ROBYN OR JO. REWARDI 
for national security and per­Love, YOUR GENTLE KNIGHThaps that may override any ob­The ligation toward public accoun­HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY CAAEN FERRINI-YOUtablility," Will Callicott, a 20-YEAA OLD HHWOMAN YOUII\ HAVE A GREAT spokesman for the Department DAY. THE QUAD, JEN, LEANN, TAISH, ANDObserver TAICIA.of Energy, said Tuesday.  
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! NO,.RE DAME'S DEVELOPMEN,. PHONE CEN,.ER NOW HIRING (Located in Badin Ball) 75 Student Positions Available $4.50 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 7:15-1 0:30; Some daytime hours All interested are invited to an informal Open House I Information Session at the Development Phone Center October 5 from ?:OO_Qm-8:00pmPLEASE JOIN US For more information, call Carol McClory, 239-7938  


~--~---~----~-------~--­
Wednesday, October 5, 1988

pageS The Observer 
Former Mexico finance minister speaks on debt 
By RON SEVERINO 
News Staff 
Because of a debt of over 400 billion dollars and a period of economic stagnation, the 1980's has been a "lost decade to the region of Latin America," and prospects of improvement are very weak at this time, said Jesus Silva Herzog, former finance minister of Mexico. 
Herzog, a distinguished fac­ulty fellow at Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies, is at Notre Dame this week to lecture on the economic situations and perspectives of Latin America. Yesterday's lecture, entitled, "The Debt Question: Still a Pending Problem?" was spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute. 
Mexican finance minister (the equivalent of U.S. Secre­tary of the Treasury) from 1982-1986, Herzog worked thirty years in the Mexican govern­ment and presently travels the United States, lecturing at numerous universities. 
His talk focused on how the Latin American debt carne about, what the situation is now, and what can be done in the future to solve the problem. 

Herzog said it was fas­hionable in the late 1970's for foreign countries to lend to Latin America and make large profits. 
The United States became the largest creditor in Latin America and, in 1981, U.S. oil prices dropped and the prime lending rate soared to 20%, which became major causes for Mexico's failure to pay off loans, beginning in 1982. 
Many creditors have tried to solve this crisis for the last six years, as banks like Citibank and Manufacturers Hanover have lent more to Mexico than the amounts of their own respective capital worths, said Herzog. 
However, the debt is still huge (100 billion in Mexico and 400 billion in all Latin America). 
Herzog suggested that before the crisis is solved, the debtor countries must take over the problem-solving responsibili­ties of creditor countries. 
By joining together, Latin American countries could ask interest payments to be reduced and could work to restructure the present eco­nomic recovery plan. 
Herzog said the taxpayer is feeling the effect of Latin America's economic crisis already. This is because U.S. banks may deduct from their taxes losses from the lack of Latin American loan pay­ments, causing the average American's taxes to rise. 

The economic situation of the 
U.S. 
today is much like that of Latin America eight years ago, said Herzog. The U.S. debt is growing (nearing 500 billion), there are more imports than exports, and the worth of the 

U.S. 
dollar is very small. 





Student claims ISU mascot racist 
Associated Press Dahl said the Sycamore is not Indiana State isn't the only 
a real Indian tribe, and added, school that has wrestled with TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -Indiana "It's a manufactured mascot." the problem. Over the years, State University administra­He said to use the symbol of there have been some corn­tors are reviewing the use of a a Sycamore tree as mascot plaints about the University of tomahawk-clenching Indian would present a problem be­Illinois' mascot, Chief 11­chief as the school's mascot cause a tree is not a particu­liniwek, according to Terry after receiving complaints of larly aggressive symbol effec­Shepard, director of that uni­racism. tive in rallying athletic teams versity's news bureau. 
Chief Ouabachi has been and fans. "There's never been a move­mascot at the university more "What do you do when you ment to get rid of the chief, but than 20 years, but only recently play somebody like the Bul­a few have objected," Shepard has the Indian drawn criticism, ldogs?" he asked. said. administrators say. On the other hand, however, The university has taken 
The controversy was "a Buckeye fan doesn't think steps to make the chief more sparked by a drawing on the of himself as a little round dignified, Shepard said. "He cover of the campus newspa­thing, and no one seems to wears an authentic costume per's back-to-school edition. know what the word 'Hoosier' and does authentic Indian The Aug. 26 edition of the In­means," Dahl added. dances." diana Statesman sported a pic­ture of the chief holding a princess cheerleader over his head with one hand. 
CaMPus

Esther Atcherson, university affirmative action director, wrote a letter to the editor pro­every Thursday eveningtesting the mascot, saying that "caricatures of American Indi­
A technician preparing communications in the government election center ans are not consistent with now in progress Tuesday for today's presidential referendum. This will be the first oppor­
ISU's policy of nondiscrimina­tion."
tunity for the Chilean plebiscite to vote on a presidential ballot since 

1970. Atcherson said she finds the conducted by:Indian mascot offensive. 
Fr. A. D'Aionzo, esc
"It has racist and sexist 
The former Buzz Bus has had 

aspects to it," she said, then 
October 6 & October 13
a name change to the Weekend 

added, "If they keep the In­
HPC 
Wheels and will have a kickoff dian, they have to dignify 7:00 PM to 8:00 PM

continued from page 1 
week October 24-29. Signs will him." 

the whole week, and we are be posted for transfer sights Tracy Maurer, a senior who Ministry Conference Room 

very excited about the match similar to Transpo. was editor of the newspaper Badin Hall up next Saturday," said Breen­The United Way campaign edition, said she was surprised For information: 239-5577
Phillips Hall Co-President started last week, and guest 

that anyone objected to the 
Amy Weber. speakers related Notre Dame's artwork. 

In other business, an amend­support of it to the South Bend 

"I still don't think the cover OFFICE OFment to the constitution of HPC community. is racist or sexist at all," she Sponsored by
was passed which will now re­The Center for Learning said. "I saw the cover as some­UNIVERSITY quire Senators to attend all Skills in South Bend, which 
thing fun that showed spirit." 
MINISTRY
meetings. Only three absences helps adults receive their GED, 

Orin Dahl, vice president of 
are allowed before they are expressed a need for help by 

development and public af­U~iversity of Notre Dome removed from office. Notre Dame students. Notre Dame, IN 4655E
fairs, said administrators are reviewing the use of the Indian 
as the symbol of the university, the Office of Campus
Join
Chile 

where sports teams are called 
continued from page 1 
The Observer 

Sycamores. taken according to the circum­stances," he said. "Today there is no state of emergency 
·······································~ 
or curfew. I hope the Chilean people's sense of responsibility and the thoughtful and prudent attitude of the armed forces ... 

i ~ENIOQ QEFLEcriON J 
will ensure a normal plebis­cite.'' 
Pinochet, the 72-year-old army commander who seized power in September 1973, trails 

! GROUP~ !
in most polls. His name is alone on the bal­lot. Chile's 7.4 million regis­

: Meet 6 evenings for dinner (D conversation :
tered voters are asked to respond "yes" or "no" to a pro­posal by the general and other 

• $20 fee •
military chiefs that he remain in power until 1997. 

If a majority says yes, Pinoc­•• 0ign-up at Center for 0ocial Concerns •• 
het will begin a new eight-year term in March. If the result is 

: Deadline for sign-ups Oct. 7 : 
negative, an open election is to 
be held next year, with power being turned over to the winner in March 1990. 

......................................... 
ViewpOint
Wednesday, October 5, 1988 


ND must denounce Shell alliance 

On January 14, 1986, the Free South Africa movement and eight union labor leaders launched a boycott of Shell products to focus public attention on the strategic support Shell gives apar­theid. 
John-Paul Checkett 
guest column 
The 1986 Shell Shadow report states that: "Shell supplies 18 percent of the oil consumed by the South African Defense Forces, as well as gasoline, diesel fuel, methane and the raw ma­terials for napalm, defoliation agents, and nerve gas." 
"Shell has been accused of intimidat­ing striking black coal miners by sen­ding agents armed with rubber bullets and tear gas to the strike sight. This accusation, leveled by the National Union of Mineworkers of South Africa and the Miners International Federa­tion, came after 129 workers were fired for protesting the termination of two black workers who took time off to hold a memorial service for a worker killed in a mining accident." 
"Though Shell's business in South Africa has been criticized by sharehold­ers for ten years, the company has never allowed a formal resolution on its South African Business to be voted at a shareholder meeting." 
Surrogacy denies infant rights 
Dear Editor: 
Last week, in what was expected to be a test case on the legality of sur­rogacy, a Michigan judge ruled that surrogacy contracts were constitu­tional so long as the contract does not require the woman to give up her maternal rights. 
Apparently, by not giving up her pa­rental rights to the child, the woman is legally being paid for gestating the baby and not for the baby himself. This logic is crude and transparent, at best. If the surrogate retains her parental rights, what does that mean for the in­fertile couples? Who pays for medical bills, braces and basketballs? Who gets to go to swim meets, recitals, or juvenile court? 
Doonesbury 

Alarmed about the growing boycott, which is now supported by the Inter­faith Center on Corporate Responsibil­ity OCCR), TransAfrica, the NAACP and various universities and church groups, Shell hired the Washington­based consulting firm Pagan Interna­tionaL This firm is headed by Rafael Pagan --the former head of the Nestle Nutrition Center, once boycotted due to infant formula abuses--and has helped Campbell's and Union Carbide protect themselves from past boycotts. 
In response to the Shell boycot, Pagan produced a 256-page draft strat­egy known as The Neptune Strategy. According to ICCR, the main purpose of this strategy is to "attempt to keep groups from joining the Shell boycott and disinvestment campaign or from giving those campaigns favorable media, educational or political sup­port." ICCR Executive Director Smith called the strategy a "calculated plan to protect profits and obscure the ways in which Shell concretely supports white minority rule." 
One of the more disturbing sugges­tions proposed by the Neptune Strategy concerns an Institute for the Study of Post Apartheid South Africa. Accor­ding to the ICCR, this institute is part of Pagan's "University Strategy" de­signed to "redirect attention from com­panies like ... Shell and their de facto support for apartheid to another more hypothetical discussion on South Africa post apartheid." This institute is part of a thinly-disguised plot to exploit educators in order to protect profits gained by the maintenance of the apar­theid system. The university that has been chosen as the sight for this pro­posed institute is none other than the University of Notre Dame. 
According to the Neptune Strategy report: "Notre Dame represents a unique opportunity for creating an in­stitution for the study of post-apartheid problems. On the one hand, ... Father Theodore Hesburgh (is) close to and respected by religious leadership in the United States and Europe. On the other, Father Oliver Williams and Lee Tavis of Notre Dame's School of Business Ad­ministration have close ties to the South African Business community.'' 
The danger presented by Notre Dame's acceptance of such a proposal is obvious. In the past, Notre Dame has rejected the cry for divestment issued by legitimate black South African leaders such as Desmond Tutu and Alan Boesak, the Congress of South African Trade Unions, and Rev. Leon Sullivan, author of the Sullivan prin­ciples. Should this University choose to ally itself with Shell and the Neptune Strategy, Notre Dame would in fact be stating that the future of South Africa 
P.O. Box Q 
If "maternal rights" means what it sounds like, then the ruling creates more problems than it solves by further blurring the question of who has ul­timate right and responsibility as a par­ent. But the fact is, no amount of verbal cloaking or legaleese can make a sur­rogacy contract anything by a purchase of a baby. It can in no way be compared to the adoption process where the adop­tive parents are responding to a situa­tion that already exits, that of a mother or couple who cannot raise their child. The surrogate is a paid manufacturer with her own means of production. The couple who has hired her, for whatever reason, is not paying to see her preg­nant. The are paying for a product, a baby. 
The New York Times reported that many felt the results of this latest sur­rogacy ruling "properly balance wo­men's reproductive freedom against the need to avoid babyselling." Since when has a woman's reproductive freedom included bringing a human being into this world and selling him or her? Such a notion is degarding to all women and, indeed, to all persons. An individual should not be allowed to be bought or sold in this country. Babies are not property. It is time this country's legal system gave full rights to its smallest citizens. The right not to be gestated for profit or passed around from owner to owner seems pretty basic. Enough of parents' rights. What about the children? 
Garry Trudeau 

AFTeR. THAT, I HAO A 7DRR.Jf)
FIR.5T, aJ& HAO A LABOR 0/5­
IWAS 

HE/! JJ/IJ I
PLATDNIC R81..A710N5HIP WITHft.fll3 AT OR.WHOOP&8, ANO
50 MUCH HAS 
AFRAID 

A CAFI? fRO/r1 TH£3 GAMBINO
A 0156/WNTIB) FORJIII&R. &M­HAPP£.N80 

A51<? [)!£?
Of THAT. 

fAMil-Y, WHICH &NOW IAIH&N I
PlOY£3& ATTACK&!) M£3 IN 7H&
5/NC£3 ttl£: 0 

I ASK?
TOW HIM I WANTW Hl5 8A8Y. • OTHeR LA5T, 
&'X&a/TIV/3 WA'3HR.OO!r11AJITH A
SAP./ !3ACH 

7HCN I HAP A -0/ETRIK.­
I SPATULA ... 
I
T/V& C.R.USH ON... I
5/R. ... 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tlile University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-In-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Managing Ed/tor ................................ Chris Donnelly News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
should not be decided by the legitimate 
leaders of that country, but rather bycompanies who are exploiting the apar­theid system for profit. This institute would also be a violation of Notre Dame's investment policy, which states that the University will not cooperate with corporations that supply the South African military and police. 
Clearly, such an institute, designed as a means to distract attention from Shell's support of apartheid, is ludi­crous and immoral, and would further implicate the Universtiy of Notre Dame in the systemized oppression and slaughter that is apartheid. Therefore, the University of Notre Dame Anti­Apartheid Network calls upon all those who care about those suffering in South Africa, who care about the reputation of this University, to speak out against such an institute. An institute support­ing the aims of those who produce the gasoline which fuels the armored police cars and the tear gas which blinds young children has no place on this or any other campus. We must act now, before Notre Dame becomes involved in this most dangerous shell-game. 
John-Paul Checkett is a senior in the 
College ofArts and Letters and is Chair­person of the Notre Dame Anti­Apartheid Network. 
Film reviews give away ending 
Dear Editor: 
Would you kindly persuade your film reviewers that it is not necessary to give every detail of a movie's plot in order to review it? I enjoy films and I frequently read reviews to help me decide whether to see a particular movie. A good review should convey a flavor of a film, tell me whether it lives up to its commercials and provide the 
Brigid M. Murphy LeMans Hall Oct. 1, 1988 

movie's premise, whole story.  not  give away the  
Sarah Oates Off-campus Oct. 4, 1988  

Quote of the Day 
"There are two tragedies to life. One is not to get your heart's desire. The other is to get it." 
George Bernard Shaw 1856-1950 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .............................. John Oxrlder Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt Production Manaqer ...................... Bernadette Shilts Systems Managilr ........................... Mark Ridgeway Controlfer .......................................... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Founded November 3,1966 
----~-------------------­
Accent 
Wednesday, October 5, 1988
page 8 

France: first impressions of a gateway to Europe 
I 
t is very difficult to start the first of my columns about being here in Angers, France on the Notre Dame Foreign Studies Program. So much has happened since we arrived over three weeks ago. While all the other Notre Dame students were unpack­ing, trying to make their dorm rooms look something like home, we were still at home trying to figure out how to fit everything we would need for a year abroad into two suitcases that weighed less than 150 pounds. 
On August 31, while the 


seniors were waiting outside Gate 10 to buy football tick­ets, each of us was making out way to Kennedy Airport in New York to meet up with the other 34 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students making the flight to Paris. We all ar­rived safely and so did most of our luggage. To be truth­ful, all but one piece of lug­gage made it on time and most of the others were still in one piece, save a few rips, and tears, which is more than I can say for the poor people from Louisiana who had no luggage for a week. 
The trip over was the easy part. Now comes the fun; one year of school at a French university with all our classes in, yeah, you guessed it, French. The first month is spend in a intensive language program called CIDEF 
(Centre International D'Etudes Francaises). The program includes people from all around the world. There are over 300 students from over 30 countries who all have one thing in common, they speak French, or as in 
A Speaker's Corner 

Actually, "variety" is a more accurate word to describe the city. It is a mel­ting pot of cultures. Finding a place serving typical English fare is often more difficult than finding a Chinese or In­dian restaurant. Tube grafitti knows few language barriers. Palaces, parks, punks, and pubs--it's all here. 
Our first Sunday morning here, a few of us found our way through Kensington Gar­dens, past the fountains, to Speaker's Corner in Hyde Park. As it happened, the 
Calvin and Hobbes 
the afternoon, people who feel thay have something to say 
(or maybe just something they need to get out of their systems) can bring a box to stand upon and can talk, preach, or scream whatever they want to whomever will listen. At any one time, several people may be speak­ing, each with a respective crowd. 
At first, only one religious zealot had stationed himself there. He was passionately giving a fire and brimstone sermon while a "disciple" held up cards displaying lines from psalms in large letters. As the morning wore on, however, the action really picked up. The first preacher gave way to a young man with a black leather jacket and dark sideburns who was "preaching" for the first time. 

He was desperately trying to prove that God made, and gave everything benefitting us. He should have known better but I guess as a novice he didn't--and so he ques­tioned a heckler, "Do you believe in God?" Of course, to be difficult, if nothing else, the man shouted back, "No!" "Do you believe in Mohammed?", the novice tried again. "Yes!" shouted the man. "And who made Mohammed?" asked our 
novice, who thought he was surely leading this man toward God and the "correct" answer. "I did! " yelled the man, "I have a son named Mohammed.'' 
Obviously, the crowd plays 
a major part in the whole at­
mosphere of Speakers Corner. 
Without the hecklers, it would 
not be the same, or nearly so 
amusing. The tourists who, 
like myself, have probably 
never seen anything like this 
before, enjoy the novelty, 
snicker, and take pictures. 
Not all conversations are 
light hearted though. One 
Bill Watterson 
my case, attempt to speak French. 
It is an interesting feeling to meet people from such dif­ferent backgrounds, who might speak many, exotic languages, but are able to communicate in French. What is really strange is to meet someone in 
Joe Zadrozny 
The French connection 

French and then find out that they speak English as well as you do. 
This first month of school is giving me the chance to expe­rience the world without even leaving Angers. But that cer­tainly does not mean I'm not going to do any travelling or sightseeing. The first tour was planned by the university for all CIDEF students. It was a nice way to start learn­ing about France by spending a Sunday at Mont Saint Mic­hel and Saint Malo, both on the Channel. 

This area of France is in­credibly beautiful, even more so than it appears in books. I wish I had the time and the space to discuss every detail, but the Observer is not big enough. 
The next Sunday was a visit to four of the many beautiful 

chateaux of the Loire Valley. 
There is so much being 
planned: a trip to Moscow and Leningrad, Christmas in Innsbruck, maybe Easter in Rome. The possibilities are endless. My biggest problem now is deciding what I should do for the 11 day break I have coming up at the end of the month. Oktoberfest in Munich? The beach in Nice? Madrid and Spain? I think this time I will settle for a couple of days in London and explore the English countrvside. 


A
midst a country of unend­ing green and coastline, London is like a country unto itself. Not only is it a definite contrast from the rest of En­gland, but it too is a city of contrasts. Finely dressed people brush by as you pass Gucci, Rolex or any of a mul­titude of high fashion-high priced designer stores. Then, perhaps just a few blocks away, a young man whose soles have worn clear through to his feet, dozes in a door­way. 
Theresa Loomis 
Notes from London 
London Horse Show was also taking place in the park. Talk about variety--at one corner people were shouting in an unintimidated manner while just a few hundred yards away others were upholding the epitome of British eti­quette and tradition. 
A Sunday morning at Speaker's Corner is an amazing experience. I was surprised how quickly the En­glish reserve can fade away. Starting at approximately 11 
a.m. and carrying over into older gentleman who had started off on a financial topic eventually hit upon the Falkland Islands and Mar­garet Thatcher's success in handling the situation. He en­gaged a smaller and more select crowd which was debating rather than heck­ling. 
Emphatically thrusting his cane into the air, the old man argued, "Out of all those men, she (Thatcher) is the only one who has the guts to stand up. she gave some politicians a thrashing." A member of the crowd burst in, "Leaders don't get their arms and le~s blown off. 
their lives over there." "We don't want any more of it," a melancholy gentleman added softly. 
Actually, Speaker's Corner can teach you quite a bit about politics if you key into the right conversations and listen closely. If nothing else, you're alerted to the popular issues and common senti­ments of the Londoners. 
Moving down the walkway I encountered a man advocat­ing Socialism and an affluent looking woman warning against sin. The last man I stopped to hear held a signboard denouncing capitalism. However, he also thought we should, "Say no to Socialism" for, as he put it, "Half the population can't think for themselves and never will be able to." Among his other gems of wisdom was the fact that women's lib serves the system .. .I never quite picked up on his reason­ing (maybe there was none to pick up on). Not failing to hit any subject, he next declared that the journalists are screaming for the conserva­tives and writing lies be­cause, "If they (journalists) write the truth, who would pay them? No one wants to hear the truth!" "Yes," he concluded, "journalists are the lowest type of people." At that point, I put my little notebook in my bag and decided to leave--I'd had enough variety for one Sun­day. 


Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, October 5, 1988 page 9 
NFL Standings Men's lnterhall Sports Lists 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE INTERHALL FOOTBALL NATIONAL CONFERENCE Paraeghlon Lugua Eoot Eaot 

w L T Pet. PF PA w L T Pet. PF PA NY G1ants 3 2 0 .600 ttt tt8 Flanner 2 0 t .833 20 6 PhoeniX 3 2 0 .600 t29 ttO Keenan 2 t 0 .667 23 28 Dallas 2 3 0 .400 9t 90 Dillon 2 t 0 .667 24 28 Philadelphia 2 3 0 .400 t28 t05 oc t 2 0 .333 17 27 Washington 2 3 0 400 ttt t20 Morrissey 0 2 t .t67 0 4t 
Centro I Luhy League 

Alumni 2 0 Ot.OOO 18 0 Chicago 4 t 0 .600 t06 60 Stanford 2 1 0 .667 33 t2 Mmnesora 3 2 0 .600 t07 7t Holy Cross t 1 0 .500 14 23 Tampa Bay 2 3 0 .400 87 tt8 Zahm 0 1 t .250 0 t2 Detroit t 4 0 200 78 93 Cavanaugh 0 2 .333 6 24 Green Bay 0 5 0 .000 64 122 Rockne League 
Weot Fisher 1 0 2 .667 t3 6 

LA Rams 0 800 t45 t06 Sarin 1 0 t .750 20 6 San Francisco 4 0 .800 129 t04 Carroll 1 2 0 .333 7 28 New Orleans 4 0 .800 t17 95 St. Ed's t 2 0 .333 25 21 Atlanta t 0 .200 tt2 t34 Pangborn 0 t t .250 0 18 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Sundoy'o Results Eoot OC t 0, Morrissey 0 

w L T Pet. PF PA Keenan 9, Dillon 7 Buffalo 4 t 0 .800 77 82 Flanner 7, Grace 6 NY Jets 3 t t .700 t05 6t Alumni 6, Stanford 0 M1am1 2 3 0 .400 74 82 Holy Cross 14, Cavahaugh 0 New England 2 3 0 .400 75 t03 Carroll t4, St. Ed's 7 Indianapolis t 0 200 76 9t Fisher 0, Pangborn 0 (tie) 
Centro! Sunday's Gomaa 

Morrissey vs. Keenan, N. Stepan, 3 p.m. C1nc1nna11 5 0 Ot.OOO t35 88 Grace vs. Dillon, S. Stepan, 2 p.m. Cleveland 3 2 0 .600 72 76' OC vs. Flanner, S. Stepan. 3 p.m. Houston 3 2 0 600 1t2 132 Zahm vs. Stanford, N. Stepan. 2 p.m. Pi11sburgh t 4 0 200 102 27 Holy Cross vs. Alumni, S. Stepan. t p.m. 
We at Pangborn VB. Carroll, N. Stepan, 4 p.m. 

Playoff Schedule National League American League 
Sorln VB. St. Ed's, N. Stepan t p.m. Seanle 3 2 0 .600 96 99 AMERICAN LEAGUE Denver 2 3 0 400 tOO 74 American League Eoot
NATIONAL LEAGUE Eaat 
Women's lnterhall 

LA Aalders 2 3 0 .400 t27 t45 w L Pet. GB San D1ego 2 3 0 .400 57 99 Boston 89 73 .549
w l Pet. GB
w

Kansas City t 3 t .300 73 9t Farley l T Pet. PF PA Wednesday tOO 60 .625 Detroit 88 74 .543 1
New York Pi11sburgh 85 75 .53t t5 4 0 Ot.OOO 38 0 
Oakland at Boston, t2:20 p.m. Milwaukee 87 75 .537 2
Lewis 3 1 0 .750 39 30 Lyons 2 1 0 .667 2t 13 

Thursday Montreal 8t 8t .500 20 Toronto 87 75 .537 2 New York 85 76 .528 3.5
Mondoy'o Rooull Siegfried 2 1 0 .667 28 Oakland at Boston, 7:22 p.m. Chicago 77 85 .475 24 Cleveland 78 84 .48t 1t
4t 

New Orleans 20, Dallas t7 PW 2 t 0 .667 25 t6 Saturday, Oct. 8 St. Louis 76 86 .469 25 Philadelphia 65 96 .404 35.5 
Baltimore 54 t07 .335 34.5 
Boston at Oakland, 7:22 p.m. Sundoy'o Rooulto PE 2 2 0 500 30 23 Sunday, Oct. 9 Weot Ch1cago 24. Buffalo 3 
Walsh 2 2 0 500 40 42 Weot
Boston at Oakland, 2:00 p.m.
Cleveland 23, P111Bburgh 9 Howard t 2 0 333 26 Oakland t04 58 .642
26 Monday, Oct. 10
Tampa Bay 27, Green Bay 24 Knon t 3 0 34 38 Los Angeles 94 67 .584 Minnesota 91 7t .562
250 13 
Boston at Oakland, 2:08 p.m.
Philadelphia 32, Houston 23 Badin 0 4 .000 45 Cincinnati 87 74 .540 7 Kansas City 84 77 .522 t9.5 (if neces~~l)')0 6 
New England 2t. IndianapoliS t7 San Diego 83 78 .5t6 11 California 75 87 .463 29 NY Giants 24, Washington 23 Wednesday, Oct. 12 San Francisco 83 79 .512 1t.5 Chicago 71 90 .441 32.5 Seanle 3t. Allanta 20 Wedneoday'o Raoulta Oakland at Boston, 2:08 p.m. Houston 82 80 .506 t2.5 Texas 70 9t .435 33.5 Phoenix 4t , LA Rams 27 Walsh 14, Badin 0 (if necessaiY) Atlanta 54 106 .338 39.5 Seanle 68 93 .422 35.5 NY Jets 17, Kansas City 17 (tie) PE 12, Knott 8 Thursday, Oct. 13 C1ncinna11 45, LA Raiders 2t 
Oakland at Boston, 7:22 p.m.Denver 12, San 01ego 0 Sunday'o Reoutta 
(if necessa'Y) 
San Francisco 20, Detroit 13 Lyons 7, PE 6 
Irish Men's Soccer
Miami 24, Minnesota 7 Siegfried 20, Walsh 8 National LeagueFarley t 0, PW 0 Sundoy'o Gomeo Lewis 7, Badin 0 Wednesday Through Sunday 
Chicago at Detro11 Knott 8, Howard 0 
New York at Los AnQ!!Ies, 9:08 p.m.
Indianapolis at Buffalo 
Today'o Games Friday 
PLAYER, POSITION G-S SOG G A PTS GW
Kansas City at Houston 
PE vs. Farley, 7 p.m. LA Rams at Atlanta Los Angeles at New York, 7:22 p.m. Bruce McCourt, F 12-12 32 7 6 20 1
B·P vs. Badin, 8 p.m.New England at Green Bay Saturday, Oct. 8
Sunday'o Gamea Joe Sternberg, MF 12-12 24 8 4 20 2 NY Jets at Clnc1nna11 B·P vs. Walsh, 5 p.m. Los Angeles at New York, 1t :20 a.m. 
Randy Morris, F 12-12 20 6 7 19 0
Sea111e at Cleveland Sunday, Oct. 9
Lyons vs. Farley, 6 p.m. Siegfried vs. Badin, 7 p.m. Los Angeles at New York, 7:22 p.m.
Tampa Bey at M1nnesota Tom Connaghan, F 12-6 12 3 3 9 2 Washington at Dallas PW vs. Knott. 8 p.m. (if necessa'Y) Danny Stebbins, F 10-1 10 3 1 7 1 Pittsburgh at PhoeniX Lewis vs. Howard, 9 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 11 John Guignon, MF-ST 12-12 12 3 1 7 1
Denver at San Francisco 
New York at Los Angeles, 7:22 Steve LaVigne, MF 9-7 9 3 1 7 1
M1am1 at LA Aalders (if neces~~l)')
New Orleans at San Diego Mitch Kern, MF 12-6 11 2 2 6 2 
Mondoy'o Gomo, Sports Calendar 1 wednesday, Oct. 12 Pat Murphy, F 11-0 4 1 2 4 0 
NY G1ants at Ph1ladelph1a New York at Los Angeles, 7:22 p.m.
Home games in CAPS Rolfe Behrje, MF 12-7 8 1 2 4 0
(if necessal)') 
Mike Drury, SW 12-12 2 0 0 0 0AP Football Poll Wednesday Dave Augustyn, WB 12-11 2 0 0 0 0 
Men's soccer at Valparaiso Scoreboard Paul LaVigne, ST 12-12 1 0 0 0 0 
AP Top Twenty Larry Scanlon, WB 4-0 1 0 0 0 0
Results for Sept. 28 through Oct. 4
The Top Tw6nly college football teams In The 
Dan Gordon, WB 12-12 3 0 0 0 0
Associated Press poll, w1th llrst·place votes in paren· Thursday theses, this season's records and total points. Points Karl Roemer, MF 11-0 0 0 0 0 0
No sports scheduled

based on 20·19·t8·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents Football (4-0) Warrick Muldrow, MF 5-0 0 0 0 0 0 are Italicized. 
Notre Dame 42, Stanford 14 Mark Crowe, WB 8-1 1 0 0 0 0 Friday Rob LaMear, MF 5-0 0 0 0 0 0
I Mlam1 4{)·0 I, 153 
Volleyball (8-5) 

2 UCLA (3) 4·0·0 t ,088 Men's tennis at Ball State lnv. Steve Archer, F 2-0 1 0 0 0 0 Notre Dame del. Butler
3. Southern Cal (2) 4-IJ·O 1, 037 Men's cross-country hosts Bobby Allong, MF 2-0 0 0 0 0 0 4. Auburn 4·0·0 959 15-2, 15-2, 15-8
NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL Diego Miron, MF 2-0 0 0 0 0 0
5. Notre Dome ~-0 910 Notre Dame del. Western Michigan 6 Florida State 4-t·O 778 Women's cross country hosts NOTRE DAME 12 153 38 28 104 10
15-8, 15-6, 15-8 7 West V1rg1ma 5·0·0 758 NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL OPPONENTS 12 102 10 8 28 0 8 South Carolina 5·0·0 732 
Men's Soccer (10-G-2)
9 Nebraska 4· I -0 692 
Notre Dame 2, Bowling Green 1
10. Oklahoma 3·0·0 606 Saturday 11 Clemson 3·t-0 57 4 Notre Dame 3, Detroit 1 Corner Kicks: Notre Dame 93, Opponents 49
Football at Pitt, 3:00 p.m.

12. Alabama 3·0·0 50t Notre Dame 0, Wisconsin 0 
Penalties: Notre Dame 257, Opponents 203Volleyball at Kentucky
13. Oklahoma State 3{)-0 485 
14. Florida 5·0·0 424 Men's tennis at Ball State Invitational Women's Soccer (8-3-Q) t5. Goorg1a 4-t·O 395 KEEPER G-S MIN G GAA s so RECORD
Marquette 2, Notre Dame 1 
16. Wyom1ng 5·0·0 237 Danny Lyons 12-11 969 9 0.84 35 4 9-0-2
Notre Dame 4, Saint Mary's 2
17. Michigan 2·2-G 196 Sunday 
Kevin Mayo 6-1 151 1 0.60 2 0 1-0-0 
t8 Oregon 4·0·0 132 
Men's soccer at Akron NOTRE DAME 12 1120 10 0.80 32 4 10-0-2

t9 Washington 3· t ·0 t28 
Cross country 

20 Arkansas 4·0·0 82 OPPONENTS 12 1120 38 3.05 66 1 0.12-2
Men's

Also receiving votes: Colorado 88, LSU 55, Hawaii Monday 42, Duke 35, Houston 24, Rutgers 24, Indiana 15, 
Notre Dame 1st at National Catholics 
No sports scheduled SCORE BY PERIODS 1ST 2ND 10T 20T TOTAL
Wash~nglon Stale t2, Penn State II, BYU 6, West· Dan Garret, Ron Markezich, 1st (24:39) ern Michtgan 6, Syracuse 5, Texas 5, P/ff 2, South· Tuesday Women's Notre Dame 21 17 0 0 38 western Louisiana 2, Ball Stale 1. No sports scheduled Notre Dame 6th at National Catholics Opponents 5 5 0 0 10 
College 
Football 
Viewers
Male & 
By Age
Female 
18-24 15.6%
College 25-34 25.0% 35-44 17.5%
Football 
45-54 15.1% 
55-64 14.2%
Viewers Female 38% 
65 and up 12.6% 
Observer. CFA Sidelines 


Wish your friends a Happy Birthday Call239·5303Happy thrqugh Observer advertising. fqr details. 
21st 
Birthday 

COPY EARLY
Gretchen! COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS 
When you need a fu II service copyLove, shop before work or after hours, 

-
depend on Kinko's.
Mom, Dad and 
kinko·s·
Kate 
the copy center 
18187 Stale Road 23 
271-{)398 
-
Wednesday, October 5, 1988
n.~Notrv Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.~Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classifieds must 
Classifieds be prapald, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five c'-ac:ters per day. 
page 10 The Observer 

NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  WANTED ATTENTION FOOD FANATICS  NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272.0058. $$$$$ I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  For Sale: Stud Airfrce Tkt. Call 283-3952 Need 2 GAs (not student) for Miami. Call 284-5666. NEED A HOTEL FOR THE MIAMI  00 YOU LIKE JAZZ? DO YOU LIKE REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM MAEKBA & HUGH MASEKELA tn con­cert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239-7 442 & 284-4626.  NEED RIDE TO U OF I (URBANA) FOR FALL BREAK ANGIE II 1260 ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY TODAY, 12:00 NOON-4:00p.m., CCE. SENIORS, JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES  
WOROPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827  IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOU! PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND  GAMES.272-6306 2 Miami GA's 4 Greg(904 )492-1404  sale-best  offer­ WEEKEND? I need tickets for the game. Let's talk trade: your tix for my Friday and Saturday night reservations at the hotel on 1131 that rhymes with Test Tinns and starts with a B. Call Matt at x3500  WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIA HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 to $101 239-7442 & 284-4626  WELCOME. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY  
Matt "'Schmeal'' Gallagher for VP DO YOU LIKE JA2Z? 00 YOU LIKE REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­cert SUNDAY, OCT. 9at8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 239-4626.  RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECES­SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST REQUIRED!) CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272­1922. WANTED PERSON TO SHARE A HOME, 20 MIN FROM NO CALL PAM  NEED PENN ST. TKTS.(ST OR GA) WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALL JOE 2n­0725 WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9  or x3633. GIRLS! I My Incredibly handsome br<>­ther and roomate from Georgetown are coming to NO lor the Miami game­their flrat NO game ever! NEED 1 OR 2 STUD. TIX TO MIAMI DESPERATE­LVII Call Tony 1717.  You liked them on Paul Simon's Graceland World Tour; You'll love them in personl Miriam Makeba & Hugh Masekela In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239· 7 442 & 284·4626 MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND  TODAY 12:00 NOON-4:00p.m., CCE. SENIORS, JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES WELCOME. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY TODAY 12:00 NOON-4:00 p.m., CCE. SENIORS, JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES  
WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 to $10 I 239· 7 442 & 284-4626 TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-8ooks lor ALL claaaas still available! UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books, 808 Howard St., Just off of ND Ave. 233-2342. You liked them on Paul Simon's Graceland World Tour; You'lllove them in person I Miriam Makaba & Hugh Maaekafa In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7 442 & 284-4626 YOU HAVE BETTER THINGS TO DOl Send your package via UPS at THE COUNTRY HARVESTER located lor your convenience In the basement of THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN MON-FRI 12:0CHI:30 (Not an agent of UPS).  237-5457; 8-5 'PITr TIX. CALL RICK 4235 NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL DAVE AT X1072 OVERSEAS JOBS. Summer, yr. round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, Aala. All llelda. $900-2000 mo. Slght-lng.Frea Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. FED UP WITH LIVING BY MYSELF, IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A ROOMATE, CALL NOEL AT 283 2747 OR 239 6916 OPPORTUNITY IN THE TRAVEL IN­DUSTRY! The II 1 college tour operator is looking for an efficient, responsible and organ­ized campus representative to market a Spring Break trip on campus. Earn free trips, and good commissions while gaining great business experience. For more information call 1·800-999-4300. F5RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO F5WEEKEND OF 1Q-7 TO 10-9  at Bpm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 to $10 II 239· 7 442 & 284-4626 DESPERATL Y need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ 287-5451, KEN. FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL MARY AT TIX 4 SALE 1 STU. MIAMI & 1 STU. AIR FORCE BEST OFFER -X4179 NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­0968 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. NEED MIAMI TIX 2 GAI.l Stud call 272-3767 READY and WILLING to trade ANY home game ticket for 2 Penn State GAs. Call Jacqui at 272-7690. I NEED MIAMI STUDS. BRIAN 2131  NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL JIM STYNES AT (BOO) 223-2440 EXT. 7n2. TIX NEEDED MIAMI STUDS & RICE GA'S. WITHOUT TIX WE HAVE NO FAMILY OR FRIENDS. x1972. Yes, I too am asking, begging, tor an opportunity to buy your MIAMI TICKETS. I need 2 tickets, student or GA. My bro­in-law would love to flatten Jimmy's Johnson. If want to get some good cash or if need a dinner date, PLEASE CALL J.C. at 1001. Thanks. NEED 4 USC TIX FOR "BOOGERI" -CARL 4073 I need Miami Tix 271-8311 MIAMIMtAMIMIAMI We have 3 Miami student tickets to­gether. Will sell all together or separately. Avoid the rush: call with your best offer. X3481, ask for Pat, Bri or Gary. HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI  FINALE ·MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at Bpm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 284-4626 Sammy the Sand Brethen has his Stan­ford TX but Drew needs two Miami GAs. 288·6207 have BIG $$$$ SMC FALL FEST OCT 6 SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. 4:30-6:15 PIC· NIC FOR ALL (NO GET COXE'S IN DINING HALLS) 7 AND 9 SHE'S HAVING A BABY CARROLL AUD. $1 ADMISSION9·1 FALL FEST GARDENS $1 ADMISSION, SOc. BEVERAGE (21 I.D.) SMC FALL FEST OCT. 6 Going to MICHIGAN? I need ride to Ann Arbor or Detroit area Oct. 14. Leave balora 2:30. Will pay lor gas. Scott II 1431 I need a ride to PITTSBURGH (or anywhere nearby) for Oct Break--More than willing to share expenses-help drive. Call Michelle at X2152.  WELCOME. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE,ITHACA OR ROCHESTER FOR BREAK.CALL AL YSSA-2732 DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA TIX TOGETHER FOR PENN STATE CALL 1395 BRIAN G. CALL YOUR MOTHER! LOVE, MOM HELPI I need a ride this weekend to either Indy or Bloomington, IN could leave on Thurs. 1 Gti or Fri. 10'7 and return Sunday. If you can help me please call Karen at x1272. RIDERS WANTED Anyone needing a ride to southern Fairfield Ct, N.Y. City, or anywhere along route 80 8811. Wilt ba leaving early Oct.1~NE WAY ONLYI  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER 233-7009.  CALL  F5CALL NANCY AT 2141  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S! Will trade 1 Air Force St Tckt ¢ $. Price negotiable. Any  GAS. CALL DEBBIE X2687 I NEED 5 RICE GA'S-KRIS x2804  4 SALE: Miami & Air Force Tix. Sold to highest bidder by Oct.11 Call SMC4052  Call Matt at 11 3610  
THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIED$ IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. LOST/FOUND LOST A Gold Chain was lost Saturday on the quad between the South Dining Hall and Badin. If found, contact Vince at 1606. There Is a reward! s s s $$ LOST: Blue-faded Levi jacket. Left in U­btary Audilorium on Sept. 22. If found, please contact Kevin at 1128. Thank you. ••• HELP ••• I LOST A BROWN GLASS CASE AT THE PURDUE GAME (WITH MY GLASSES IN THEM). IF YOU HAVE SEEN THEM, OR EVEN THINK YOU MIGHT HAVE, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE, LET ME KNOW. CALL SEAN 1900. PLEASEHELPMEFINDMY SUEDE JACKET I HOPEFULLY PICKED UP WHILE CLEANING AT THE FARLEY BARN DANCE FRIDAY NIGHT DANIEL BOONE STYLE, TAN WITH LONG FRINGES AND FIFTY, YES FIFTY BUCKS IF YOU CAN TELL ME ANYTHING ABOUT IT AT ALL! CALL JEN AT X4238 OR 403 FARLEY. I WILL DIE A HAPPY WOMAN. REMEMBER, FIFTY BUCKS 1111 Lost: NO class ring, gold with green stone. Reward offered. Call Dean 2n­4673.  On-campus travel representative or or­ganization needed to promote Spring Break trip to Florida or Texas. Earm money, free trips, and valuable work ex­perience. Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-B00-433-n47. NEED RIDE TO ST. PAUL, MN. WILL PAY. CALL LORA 1282. FOR OCT. BREAK. FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. Round Trip Ohare-Aibuquerque Oct. 14­19. Kathy x4821 JVC CD PLAYER--A FEW MONTHS OLD, PROGRAMMABLE,CALL X3824 AND LEAVE MESSAGE IF INTER· ESTED JVC QUARTZ LOCK TUNER 35 WATTS, A FEW MONTHS OLD, AS­KING $200 CALL X 3824 JVC CASSETTE DECK DOLBY B.C. GREAT FREQUENCY RESPONSE, BRAND NEW ASKING $155. CALL X 3824 YAMAHA EQUAUZER--10 BANOCHANNEL.GREAT DEAL AT $150 CALL X3824 BANG & OLUFSEN---B&O BOOK­SHELF SPEAKERS. GREAT FOR DORM SYSTEM ASKING $300 WILL TALK. CALL X 3824  reasonable offer accepted. Please call Jim X3681 NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$. CALL CAROLE 3296. FOR SALE: One Air Force student ticket. I can even give you a non-picture ID to use with rt. I'm only looking lor some money to spend in the Bahamas. If you need the ticket, call Jim Winkler at 11 09 or afternoons at 239-7471. IF YOU'VE GOT $$$, I'VE GOT TICK­ETS! AIRFORCE 2 GA & 2 STU MIAMI 2 STU BEST OFFER X3855 HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete at 287-5871. NEED MIAMI GA'S. 1063. NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR CARLOS 289-8417 ····························································· t NEED 2, 3 or 4 AIR FORCE GA'a I Call Duana at x1681. FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE student ticket--BEST OFFER--call Mary at# 2286 I need 2-4 Gas for Air Force and Pitt call 2281 Ten Canadian hoaeheada are coming down lor the MIAMI game, arid they're bringing Ice cold Canadian beer and a bunch of Iunny looking money with !ham. They're offering both beer and cash for GAa. Good deal, eh? Call Marty at 1471  Need 2 Miami G.As will pay $$ or trade 2 PENN STATE GAs or 2 45-yard line AIR FORCE GAs Call John II 1805 NEED 2 MIAMI GA's CALL JOE 2054 I NEED A MIAMI & AN AIR FORCE GA tor my Pa. Pa is coming from Maui and has $120. Call Chris at 1355 NEED 4 P. ST. GA'S WILL PAY TOP$$ X3201 FOR SALE: 1 AF STUDENT TICKET, 1 RICE GA, AND 1 MIAMI (SEMI-GA) CALL STEVE-3375 4 MIAMI STU. TIX AVAILABLE. BRIAN 289-8020 SEWNG STUD AIR FORCE AND RICE TIX, CALL CHRISTINE •4814 I HAVE MIAMI G.A.'SI YOU NEED THEM! CALL JOE NOW AT 2008 AND MAKE AN OFFERI! I NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S! CALL 271­02781 THANKS! Miami St Tick FOR SALE. Chris 3373 NEED ONE STUD TICKET lor MIAMI! Please call KIM x4420 I'm SELLING my MIAMI and AIR FORCE stud tix! BEST OFFER call MARC at 3117 HELP! I have $90 and am DESPARATEL Y in need of two MIAMI GA's. Call JIM at x1010 TORCH needs two tickets for the Miami game or he wilt die. Call CHRIS at 3322 and keep the FLAME alive.  SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. THE MULTI­SOCIAL EVENT SMC Fall Fest Reminders: IF it rains the picnic will be canceled BUT She's Having A Baby will still be shown at 7&9 AND The Gardens will still take place 9-1. Get to The Gardens early bt there is a 500 person limit.(21 ID required) SMC SENIOR CLASS IS HAVING A BABY OCT 4&5, 9pm& 11 pm Carroll Aud $1 OCT 6,7&9pm same place. SUMMER PROGRAMS FOR SMCtiD LONDON (WITH TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND, & FRANCE) AND ROME (WITH TRAVEL IN FRANCE, GER., SWITZ, $ N. ITALY). CLASSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY, ITAUAN AND JUSTICE. MEETING OCT.5, 7pm IN MOREAU HALL (SMC), LITTLE THEATER. FREE INFO & PIZZA!! FOR MORE INFO CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272­3726. DESPERATE NEED RIDE TO NYC AREA FOR FALL BREAK WILL HELP WITH GAS & DRIVE LIZ II 4664 An open letter to the NO Football Team: Dear Irish, As you may realize, there are many mem­bers of the student body who are from the Pittsburgh area. We have grown up loving NO and everything she stands for. At the same time, we have grown up amidst the disgrace that is the U. of Pitt. athletic dept. We have now lost to the Panthers 3 consecutive times. While you have already provided us with many thrills this season. we ask you to provide us wrth yet another. Remember, we play Miami on October 15th. But, on October 8th, we preserve what NO stands for and we defeat Pitt. Eric Flck  Happy Birthday, Nick Perry! Love, Amy, Shelley, Patty, Kathy, Kathy, Kathy, Janet, Tara, Kristin, Michelle, Joan and Sarah YAM Ill P.S. 622, 9:00, Be therel HEY ST. ED'S MEN For the 5% of 4th floor and 25% remaining-Need a date to your dance? Call the party babes, Dawn and Chrissy at 4336 PLEASE SELL MIKE WADE YOUR MIAMI GA TICKETS. HIS PARENTS ARE MAD ENOUGH THAT HIS SISTER ACCIDENTLY TOOK HIS CAR KEYS BACK TO NEW JERSEY WITH HER LAST WEEK. NOTHING ELSE GOES RIGHT FOR HIM EITHER. HELP HIM...287-9870 NEEDED: Dealers for Senior Fa­the..Oaughter Weekend Casino Night Oct.8 You must be 21 years of age. If interested call Connie at SMC Student Activites -284-4562 for details. HAPPY BITHDAY TO MY LITTLE SIS IN GEORGIA! LUV,AMY. 2-SOUTH QUOTES OF THE WEEK: 1. Don't let them corrupt you--but it looks to me like there's not that much left to corrupt. 2. rt's always easier to scope the wimpy guys--the numbers are in your favor. 3. Ute is a game. The question is, how do you chaat? 4. A·-·---is an affec­tionate term. HELP I-NEED RIDE TO UN IV. OF TENN.  
LOSTI Sometime on Saturday, Green Field? A green emerald, floating heart necklace Lots of sentimental valuellll II found, please call Kate at 2n-9609. $$$ Reward $$$$ LOST: Casio f(x) 100 calculator between Keenan Hall and Lafortune on Friday, September 2. NO JACKET. Chris 3373. Lost: 1 hair comb, 2 hot pink coiled ear­rings, 1 gold circular earring. If found please call 272-7690.  CONVERTIBLE Claaalc 1967 Mercury Monterey. Ex. cond. $1,400. can 2n-3014 anytime. HOME FOR SALE IN ROSELAND -V4 mi. from Notre Dame. All brick, 3 bdrm., xtra bdrm. and bath In finished basement, 30x26 garage, AoC, gas ht, deck and landscaped backyard, newer kitchen & carpeting, fireplace, stove, oven, dlahwaaher, washll<'tlryer In­cluded, all window coverings In­cluded. Call Susan Bush 2n·1651. Broker owned. $58,000. Round trip ticket from SB to Newark 1013  Student Tickets lor Sale Two Miami Tickets and Three Air Force Tickets Call Will at 283-2089 and make your BE$T OFFERI ································································ HELP! NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 2n-t513 WE NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD.  I want MIAMI Studs-Kate X 3874 NEED 3 AF GA'S. REBECCA 4953. NEED 3 TICKETS TOGETHER FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 218­482-8989. WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI-NO GAME WILL PAY TOP$. CALL 305­981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. FOR SALE-ONE MIAMI STUDENT TICKET BEST OFFER. CALL SOON! BRIDGET 284-5014.  I didn't know you were trying to start a co-ed NO Varsity Greco-Roman mud wrestling team. Had you informed me eartier I would have worn the right clothes to Green Field on Saturday. As it is now, I'll be lucky to salvage my white (now brown) sweatshirt and blue (now brown and blue) jeans. I'll let you know if my elbow gets infected. If I didn't already know you were really a nice guy deep down inside, I might be really, really angry. Good luck on getting funds from the athletic department for your new club. I'm sure you'll get a monogram. Still in disbelief  FOR BREAKI CALL CARL (4073) IF YOU DRIVE NEAR. $$. Dear Slime (AKA "Biff The Wonder Stud")-Tonight's the night. It's finally here. We'll see whether missing Bio was worth itl We're sorry we can't be there to see your opening debut, but time is precious and we have studying to do. We'll be there on Friday; all ready to be entertained. And hey, we've heard that a big name producer is considering doing this play-in French (and we gave him your name!) Good luck! Love, Boaz."Ruth",Caviar,Cin,and Eart.  
-10'23 call John 2n-2454  TICKETS I CALL MIKE AT X13BO OR JIM AT X1382.  HELP! NEED TWO MIAMI G.A.'S CALL  Hey Gretchen Etzell!  
STOLEN: Braun Electric Razor from Campusview at a Friday night 2-7. t know how people are after a long night of drink­ For Sale ·1976 Mercury Marquis 4-door, AC, new tires, cassette, runs well, $300, call 284-4516 or 284-4545.  1 MIAMI GA TO FIRST CALLER WITH $75. HURRYI LUIGI .1391  JEN 284-5055 OR 5056. NEED 3 STUD. TIX FOR MIAMI. CALL  I need rider to Texas tor break, call Jon 272-7496  We're all so happy you're finally 211 We decided not to embarrass you by putting In some awful picture, or hiring  
ing.Piease return. Call: Ed 2n-0530 Thanks FOR RENT do your parents need a place to stay for foollball weekends? try the "irish bed & breakfast··-located 2 miles from n.d. for into. ring 272-n38 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 218­291-7153.  APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­cluding keyboard, green-screen monrtor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap· pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283­3481. TICKETS desperately need 2 gas for miami (upset) game 2723491  2 MIAMI GA'a 4 sale to highest bidder by SAT 1G11 Noon. x3788 12-2 pm or 6-8 pm I Need Penn State GA's, 2 or 4. Call Dave x1612. I NEED 3 PENN STATE TIX PLEASE CALL X2964 MIAMI STUD. TICKET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER BY 1Gti. X4111  JEFF AT 2153. PERSONALS N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White TaHy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, LA., CA90037. 213-741­1338.  Rochester, NY ·Riders needed -Beat the bus Call ANDY 2290 ..................\ ............................................. JUNIORS JUNIORS CLASS BOXERS ARE HERE!! $6 YOU CAN PURCHASE ONE AT THE CLASS OFFICE(2ND FLOOR LAFOR· TUNE) EVERY AFTERNOON AFTER 2PM OR WITH YOUR DORM REP GET BEHIND THE CLASS OF 1990!!  that awful man to alng to you... so here's a nice personaL We did try to arrange lor M. Jamala to fly out to give you his personal wtshea, but he had a claaa to teach. Oh well, maybe for your 22nd ... Anyway, hopa you have a SUPER 21at Blrthdaytl We love you!! -All your friends. TO LOVER OF LONG HAIR: The ques­tion is: Do you have long hair? From the very flattered girt in PE To the girl In PE  
- FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDROOM HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.2n-QOII BED 'N BREAKFAST ·Private room with beth. Footbllll -kencla, parent vtalta, lllc. Ulna. from campua. 2n­711111.  MIAMI STUDENT TICKET (Section 28) for sale to highast bidder. Call 272-7690 and leave name, number and offer on answering machine between noon and midnight today or 9 a.m. and noon Thursday (tomorrow). I need 2 AF GA'sl DAWNx2286  YES EVERYBODY, ITS CHRISTMAS. I HAVE 4 MIAMI G.A.slll MUST SELL BY MONDAY 1010. CALL ERIC i3883­or-ALEX i1747. Need 2 PENN STATE Tix Will pay $ or trade othar GA's Sean x1352 Need Rice GA's and Penn State Ga's Abe x1352  SNUGSI Countdown ... 9 days 'til your world is rockedl I miss you. LE.M. Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher SENIOR REFLECTION GROUP What Ia It? Find outl Stop by the C.S.C. & atgn up  FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI AND 1 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX $$TALKS. STEVE X 1424. DUKAKIS-BENTSEN 88 will hold a debate party at Joes Tavam, 1201 Dun­ham, Wednesday 1()5 at 7:15. Following tha Bentsen-Quayle debate will be a meeting with campaign staff. For a ride, meet at Main Circle at 7:00. Questions call Mark x11 n.  I may not have long hair mysaH, but I definitly love the way you wear yours. Ever since the first time I saw you, and every day when I see you, I know that I must meet you to know what you are like. Please let me know how we can make something happen. YOUR LOVER OF LONG HAIR see CLASS, page 5  
- 


AP Photo 

The Mets had plenty to be happy about last night the Mets a 3-2 victory over the Dodgers. The game after Gary Carter (left) hit a bloop double with story may be found on page 16. 
two on and two out In the ninth Inning to give 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ACCENT COPY EDITOR 
For further information contact 
Beth Healy at 283-1264 

Weather alters AL playoff outlook 
Associated Press 
BOSTON --Boston's Bruce Hurst and Oakland's Dave Stewart might finally shine out­side Roger Clemens' shadow as bad weather may put a premium on pitching for the start of the American League playoffs. 
Chilly rain canceled part of the Boston Red Sox workout Tuesday and the cool showers forecast for Game 1 Wednes­day afternoon caused Oakland Athletics manager Tony La 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS DEADLINES FOR ENTRIES 
TODAY 1,0DA Y TODAY TODAY TODAY TODAY TODAY TODAY TODAY 
OCTOBER 5~ 
II\
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
BADMINTON SINGLES 
GRADIFAC VOLLEYBALL 

II-I RACQUETBALL -~ 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SINGLES 

IH HANDBALL 
,~ 
CO-REC INNERTUBE WATER POLO 

GRAD/FACULTY RACQUETBALL SINGLES 
II-I VOLLEYBALL -MEN'S AND WOMEN'S 
1f_O_I02_A1!QS)__1flEllS lDAlf~ 
Jeffries juices 
Mets' offense 
page 11 
l
I 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES --A couple of days before the season ended, New York Mets manager Davey Johnson named Gregg Jefferies his third baseman for the playoffs and gave the rookie a reason to celebrate for real. 
The Mets led Pittsburgh by 7 1t2 games in the National League East when Jefferies was summoned from Class AAA tidewater to replace the injured Wally Backman on Aug. 27. 
"The plan was to use Gregg as a pinch hitter and late-inning replacement," Johnson said. 
The plan changed, and so did the Mets' sputtering offense. 
In Jefferies' first start on Aug. 28 against San Francisco, he went 2-for-5. The next day, against San Diego, he was 3­for-4 with a double, triple and home run. 
"He sparked our offense," Mets batting coach Bill Robin­son said. "We were in first place when he got here, but we pulled away when he got into the lineup." 
Jefferies, 21, was named NL player of the Week for the per­iod ending Sept. 11, when he was 11-for-25 with eight runs scored, two doubles, one triple, three homers and nine runs batted in. 
"That was one of the best weeks I've ever seen," Johnson said. "He has a quick bat and is hard to fool." 
The Mets clinched the NL east at Shea Stadium on Sept. 22 against Philadelphia, but Jefferies says he didn't really feel part of the party. 
"I didn't feel completely part of it because I haven't been here the entire year," Jefferies said. "I feel like they've ac­cepted me. But during the clincher I wasn't jumping around with them and celebrat­ing. 
"That was their celebration, and I didn't want to look like some kind of freeloader. I was just kind of there," he said. 
Jefferies, who finished the season hitting .321 with six homers and 17 RBI, was at third Tuesday when the Mets opened the NL playoffs at Dodger Stadium. 
Russa to juggle his lineup. 
Left fielder Dave Parker and second baseman Glenn Hub­bard, each slowed by nagging injuries, were pulled from starting roles and Hubbard, who is troubled by a pulled hamstring, was then taken off the postseason roster. Good­fielding, light-hitting Tony Phillips and Mike Gallego will start in their places. 
"Pitching and defense are going to be more important," La Russa said. "If the condi­tions are like they are today, you won't see the Fenway Park of 10-9 games." 
For Hurst and Stewart, a low­scoring game meant a chance at deserved recognition. Hurst was the true ace of the Boston staff this year and Stewart en­joyed his second successive 20­victory season, although both are usually dwarfed by Clemens' big accomplish­ments. 
Last year, Stewart com­plained he should have won the Cy Young instead of Clemens, but few others agreed. This year, Stewart went 21-12 with a 3.23 earned run average and Clemens was 18-12 with a 2.93 ERA. 
On Tuesday, Stewart downplayed the rivalry. 
"There's no comparison be­tween myself and Roger Clemens. I said what I said last 
year  and  now  it's  over,"  
Stewart said.  
"I'm  pitching  the  first  

game," he said. "I've won my share of games." 
Hurst, 18-6 with a 3.66 ERA, was Manager Joe Morgan's pick to start the opener because of his effectiveness during the day at Fenway Park. He went 13-2 at home this year and is 5-1 lifetime against the Ath­letics in Boston. 
"You can put me in anyone's shadow you want," Hurst said, "but it's not a competition to see who starts Game 1. 
IP----------------~
OPENING SOON I I I
I ffi(])ffiffi[]] 9~ I
I I
South Bend's Newest Restaurant 
I Now accepting applications for: cooks, 1 I busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid I1 vacations, 0/otips I 
Part time 8-20 hours
II I
Full time 40 hours or more 
I I
Apply from 1-7, Monday-Friday 
I Very close to campus I I phone 277-7678 I I I
I I
S.R.23 

I f. g-I 
1 
~ I
, 204GSR2a -•

•.............................L--~-------------J 
age 12 The Observer Wednesday, October 5, 1988 
Word ProcessinglOl. 
r 
! 
I 
I 
t 
I t 
I 
t I I I I I I 
I 
L 
There is agrim reality of college llfe that you may just one example of how Macintosh helps students Vv·ork or may not be acquainted with.'I)rping. smarter, quicker and more creatively. No, make that hours of typing. Precisely why you The good news is, with Macintosh you don't have should consider aMacintosh'M computer. to know anything about computers to use one. 
With programs like ~teNow and Microsoft Word, The better news is, you don't have to kno\v any you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and change type thing about white out, either. sizes and styles with one finger. Which can come in very handy. (Especially if that's the way you type.) And that's tl~The power to be your besf 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

-
©1987 Apple Computer; Inc., Apple andthe Apple logo are rep,isieredlmdemarks of,andMacintosh arui The pou•er to heyour hesi afflrademarks ifApple Computer; Inc. Micmsofi is a regzsieredtrademark of,and Worn zs atrademark ifMzcrosojl Corp WrileNou· is a regisJerrillrademark ()(AJRUS. 
-~-----~~ -~­

Wednesday, October 5, 1988 
The Observer 
page 13 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

Randy Lanier, the 1986 Indianapolis 500 Rookie of the Year, was found guilty by a grand jury of running an in­ternational multi-million dollar drug-smuggling operation. Lanier, 34, and two of his three co-defendants face a man­datory life sentence without parole on their convictions for engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise. -Associated Press 
Mike Tyson is not, and has never been, a manic depressive, a psychiatrist said after examining the fighter on Tuesday. Dr. Abraham Halpern, the chairman of the psychiatry department of United Hospital at Port Chester, N.Y., said Tyson "showed no sign of abnormality. He had no delusionary ideas." Describing the fighter's frame of mind as "most of the time within the range of normal. He's under more pressure than most of us," Halpern said, "Dr. McCurtis used the expression 'mood regulatory problems.' There's something in that." -Associated Press 
Referees are needed for NVA Co-Ree basketball. Stop by the NVA office or call at 239-6100 for a great chance to earn $8 per game. -The Observer 
The NO hockey team has adjusted its schedule following the one-year suspension of the Kent State hockey program. The Irish no longer will play Kent State on Nov. 4-5 and Feb. 17-18. Notre Dame has added a home game with Michigan-Dearborn on Nov. 4, a game at Dearborn on Nov. 5, an additional home game with Merrimack over Thanksgiving weekend and a home game with Lake Forest on Feb. 15. -The Observer 
Officials are needed for Saint Mary's flag football and for the Saint Mary's 4-on-4 volleyball program. If in­terested, call Maureen Harty, assistant athletic director, at 284-5548. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Any Cassene Or LP $6.99 Any Compact Disc $12.99 
Hurry into Peaches Music and Video. For the next 5 days your Student I.D. will save you up to 30fi/0 on the hottest LPs, Cassettes and COs. -----. 
Present your valid r-... University of Notre Dame ~ Vijt~. OF NOT~e-1)~"'""""' Student 1.0. at Peaches Music #t£~ ~ 
.... ,"., 

& Video and receive any LP ~ ' 
or Cassette (regularly priced • ( (.,•­up to $9.99) for $6.99 or any single-album Compact Disc ~ 
(regularly priced up to ~ $16.99) for only $12.99. ~It 
Limit 3. Not valid with other ::~~~--~~~\~~~'ffi)J
offers. Offer expires 10/9/88. Offer good at Indian Ridge Plaza location only. Peaches -the only music and video store you 'II ever need. 
FUTUIUNG NIW MUSIC FADM 
BOBBY McFERRIN THE BEACH BOYS THE FABULOUS THUNDERBIRDS THE GEORGIA SATELLITES 
JOHN cou;:~~~~LENCAMP -­
" 


New diving coach joins ND swim team 
Special to The Observer Davis currently holds the 
world record for the longest 
Tim Davis has been named open water relay across Lake 
Notre Dame's diving coach, Michigan and is pursuing a 
joining swimming coach Tim master's degree at Indiana 
Welsh's staff. University-South Bend. 
Davis comes to the Irish after "Tim will be a fine addition 
a successful career as the head to our staff," Welsh says. 
men's and women's swimming "We've had some success with 
coach at South Bend's Clay our diving program in the past 
High School. few years and have sent people 
An '84 graduate of Ball State, to the NCAA regional level of 
Davis served as an assistant competition. I think Tim's com­
coach at Indiana for one year mitment will really result in 
before beginning his career as Notre Dame's diving program 
a high school coach. becoming much improved.'~ 
Saints learn to beat opponents, not selves 
Associated Press winning record until last 
season's club went 12-3 to earn 
NEW ORLEANS --The New a spot in the playoffs. Left be­Orleans Saints, until last hind was a 21-year legacy of season a perennial NFL also­mistakes and losses. ran, apparently have learned The lastest victory buried a that games are won by beating couple of other long-standing the other team. frustrations. It was only the 
"I think what happened is second New Orleans victory in 
that we didn't beat ourselves. 13 games against the Cowboys 
We didn't do much to create big and just the second in seven 
problems for ourselves," Monday night outings. 
Saints coach Jim Mora said "We go into every game ex­
after New Orleans' 20-17 vic­pecting to have a chance to 
tory over the Dallas Cowboys win," Mora said. "It's a lot of 
on Monday night. things--preparation, talent, 
"Offensively we didn't hurt and the mental attitude--but ex­
ourselves and defensively we pecting to win and confidence 
didn't give up the easy score, helps." 
the easy touchdown. We made The Saints improved to 4-1 
them work hard for everything and kept pace with the Los An­
they got." geles Rams and San Francisco 
The Saints hadn't enjoyed a 49ers atop the NFC west 

• 

hold Wisconsin to a scoreless 
tie. 

"On Sunday, we bent but we 
Defense 
continued from page 16 
didn't break," said Drury. wingbacks Dave Augustyn and "Danny Lyons totally saved us. Dan Gordon, John Guignon and But now we're ready for Paul LaVigne at stopper and Valpo." Danny Lyons guarding the The Irish will travel to Val­goal. Lyons turned in a fantas­paraiso for the match this af­tic performance on Sunday to ternoon. 

Wednesday, October 5, 1988
page 14 The Observer 
Great expectations within Brown's gentle grasp 

touchdown catch against Stanford. 

Johnson hates wait for NO-Miami game 
Associated Press we were on in that ballgame, I 
would just as soon play Notre 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. -­Dame this week." 

University of Miami coach The Fighting Irish, 4-0, play 
Jimmy Johnson said Tuesday Saturday at Pittsburgh before 
he would just as soon play fifth­facing Miami in South Bend, In­
ranked Notre Dame this Satur­d., on Oct. 15. 

day, rather than have two "This is the greatest Notre 
weeks to prepare for the game. Dame team we've seen since 
The Hurricanes' schedule I've been here at Miami," 
this season included open dates Johnson said. "They have a lot 
prior to three of their biggest more speed at all of the skill 
games--against Michigan, positions. They are more ag­
Louisiana State and the Fight­gressive on defense." 

ing Irish. If the mail is any indication, 
"It can be an advantage if Notre Dame is eager to play 
you have a team that's injured Miami. Johnson said he has 
or if you have a young team recently been receiving six to 
that needs more time to 12 letters a day from Notre 
prepare," Johnson said. "It can Dame fans. 

be a disadvantage if you are "Some of them are cute. 
somewhat healthy and on a Some of them are irritating. A 
roll." lot of them I wouldn't let my 
Coming off a 55-0 thrashing· mother read." 

of Missouri, the Hurricanes are The coach also receives oc­
on a roll. They're 4-0 and casional calls from Notre 
ranked No. 1. Dame fans, including a South 
Bend freshman who several 
"It concerns me, when we weeks ago phoned Johnson and have a layoff, if our team is said, "I'm beating the rush. I going to be as sharp as what hate you now." they were prior to the layoff, "He said, 'We're going to especially offensively," cream you,"' Johnson recalled Johnson said. "As sharp as we with a chuckle. "I said, 'Dream were against Missouri, the roll on.'" 
NFL reinstates players 

Associated Press NFL statement said. The early 
reinstatements, the league 
NEW YORK --The National added, were an accomodation 
Football League announced to the players, who have 
Tuesday that running backs missed four regular season 
Calvin Thomas of Chicago and games, and their teams. 

Charles White of the Los An­Thomas and White had been 
geles Rams have been carried on their respective 
reinstated after serving club's non-football illness list 
suspensions for substance after their second violations of 
abuse. the NFL's substance-abuse 
Commissioner Pete Rozelle policy. allowed the players to return a The players will continue to few days earlier than their receive counseling and treat­scheduled re-entry dates, the ment. 
Freshman tight end feels no pressure 
By PETE SKIKO 
be playing a little more, and at the beginning of the game,"Assistant Sports Editor 
said Brown. "Frank is a great 
Living up to high expecta­tight end, and he and I have tions can be a difficult thing to pretty much split time so far do. this season. I'll play just as 
If you're rookie wide hard as when I come in for receiver Tim Brown, it means Frank. It won't be any differ-proving to the NFL that a ent." phenomenal senior year was no Holtz knows Brown is no fluke. flash-in-the-pan, and he took 
But if you're freshman tight some time in Tuesday's press end Derek Brown, it may mean conference to indicate just even more. what he thinks of the fresh­
As a senior at Merritt Island man's potential. High School, he was deemed "I think it's about time we
Derek Brown 

the best prep football player in talked a little bit about Derek America by Parade magazine, Brown, "there was no way I Brown," said Holtz, perhaps and was recruited doggedly all was going to come to school understating. "He's a great over the country. He chose to here. I had pretty much athlete, he's a better-than­play football for Lou Holtz and decided to go to either Florida average blocker, he has the University of Notre Dame, or Miami. But when I came tremendous hands, he runs knowing that he'd be third--at here to visit. .. I don't know very good routes, he loves the highest--on the opening day what it was, but something just game, he's unselfish, he has a depth chart. kept telling me, 'This is where great deal of self-pride, and he 
Pressure? Nah. Brown you should go.' will be the difference in an aw­shrugs off any notion of it. "I expected to see some ful lot of games before he 
"Yeah, I knew the fans would playing time this year, and I've leaves here. He has the poten­expect a lot of a guy some been pretty happy what's taken tial to be as fine a tight end as people called the best in the place so far." I have ever been around. country," said the soft-spoken Considering that two of "He's one of those rare indi­Brown. "But I learned in high Brown's three receptions this viduals who came in here with school that you don't play for season have gone for touch­a great reputation which, I per­anybody else's expectations downs, he could hardly not be. sonally feel, was underes­but your own. I honestly believe In his senior year in high timated. I think he's better that." school, Brown caught 27 passes than we thought he was going 
Irish fans are happy that for over 400 yards ... and only to be, and I thought he was Brown's expectations of him­three touchdowns. going to be awfully good then. self exceed those of everyone And Brown will step even fur­He's only going to be playing else. Well, almost everyone. ther into the limelight this Sat­in his fifth game (Saturday), 
"(Head) Coach Holtz has a urday afternoon when he gets and he's going to start. Derek way to get you to try to reach the starting nod in place of the Brown is going to be a fine tight your potential," said Brown. ailing Frank Jacobs. Feeling end." "He's quite a perfectionist. I any pressure yet, Derek? If he can just beat those jit­can appreciate that, because I "Hey, all that means is I'll ters. am, too." 
But Holtz and the Irish al­most had to deal with the prospect of facing Brown in two 
~ You've Come A Long Way, ~ 
weeks--clad in orange, green, and white. Followers of the Irish can give credit to the aura 
~ Baby! ~ 
of the Notre Dame campus for Brown's presence in South ~ Happy ~ 
Bend. 

"Before my visit to Notre 
" said the 6-7, .<.•nr-u•~UliU ~ 2mh ~ 
~ Birthday ~ 
~ Kenny! ~ 
~ ~ 
For the fac!S call your local Red Cross. or write' ~ From The "Ho" Crew. ~ AIDS
American Red Cross == 
W..ShingtOn. DC 20006 

+ •••••••••••••••••••~ 

Would you like to get $100 for havin a great time? Then participate in our 

October 6 beginning at 9:00 PM First prize --$1 00! 
Call Maura at 283-3723 if interested 

,..------------­
Wednesday, October 5, 1988 
CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Science Quarterly Meeting, Rm 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. 
12noon • 4p.m. Arts and Letters Career Day in the Lower Level, Center for Continuing Education. 
7 p.m. PresentatiorvReception for all 1st year MBA stu­dents interested in discovering career opportunities with Leo Burnett Company, in the Upper Lounge, Uni­versity Club. 
12:10·1 :00 Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
7 and 9:15p.m. "Roots," in Library Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Information on the SMC London-Rome Summer Program, SMC Little Theatre. 
8:10 p.m. NMMC Theatre presents "Antigone," di­rected by Roberta N. Rude, SMC O'Laughlin Auditorium. For tickets, call 284-4626. 
,DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Thin Steak Sandwich Savory Baked Chicken 
Roasted Turkey Breast Beef Enchiladas 
Batter Fried Perch Spinach Crepes 
Cheese Stuffed Pepper Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
~ WITH IWY ff(Of7€f( SM()&­
&LIN& Of€f(flTlON, A Ct£.4N PIICKII&IN6... 8RI/31N& CJri'7CIIIL5... tii(INJ761?1N& MON€Y. 

Buzz McFiattop Michael F. Muldoon 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 Chinese pagoda 48 Conceit 24 Town in 50 Prado offering
1 Pitches a 
Normandy 

51 All major
complete 

26 Omaha Beach leaguers
game 
craft

6 Meland Ed 53 Manny-,
28 List or record
of baseball former 
31 Bat material 
10 Ennis or Dodger
34 "Luckand
Crandall of 57 "Comus"
Pluck" author

baseball composer
36 Ancient
13 Bone: Comb. 59 Embellish
Asians
form 

61 Pernicious
38 Mets' first 
14 Kind of ticket 
15 Senator from 

40 Obvious 63 Another Met
Kan. 16 Met slugger 42 Cole Porter pitcher 
18 Calif. inst. song: 1929 65 R-;:gimen 
19 Pitchers' stats 43 Dye used in 66 An Icelandic 20 Consent cosmetics literary work 21 "Holy 45 Napoleon's 67 Former coin of smokes!" marshal Hungary 22 Teased the 46 Grinds one's 
68 Trimming tool 
ump teeth 
69 Singer Diana 70 Pittsburgh product 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 1 Defeated pitcher 2 Nolan Ryan is 
12 Be in first 31 Cleo's killer 52 Namesakes of 
one 

place 32 All-male party a Wagnerian3 Fine fiddle 15 Aped Burr and 33 Another Met goddess
4 Raise a nap slugger
Hamilton 54 Sheeplike5 Plant seeds 35 Kind of club
17 Waterloo 55 Touch of color
6 Alpha's 37 Piggery
opposite 39 Closest 
25 Action by language or
7 Patio of sorts 41 Type of bread
Petruchio star in Perseus
8 Weight 44 Smgers 
allowance 27 Most judicious Donny and 57 "M*A*S*H" 
actor

9 Foxiest 29 War god Marie 
58 Foray

10 Met pitcher 30 Tenaceof 47 Judge, at 11 Cinders of World Series times 60 Dummkopf comics fame 49 Fluffy fare 64 Speed abbr. 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 





------------------------~--------------------------------------~ 

Sports 
Wednesday, October 5, 1988 
Crunch time for defense 
NO soccer travels to Valpo for regional battle 
By CHRIS FILLIO who is battling a bruised calf, is listed Sports Writer as probable. Valparaiso joins a number of other The Irish men's soccer team is cur­Great Lakes Region teams who have 
rently the only undefeated team in the targeted Notre Dame as their biggest Great Lakes Region, yet it is still game of the season. The Irish have to ranked behind Indiana, Evansville and be prepared for a tough and physical Akron. battle. 
The reason for this may be the series "We'll have to play a heck of a game of highs and lows which the Irish have to beat Valpo," said Grace, "because experienced en route to posting their they're really fired up. They're going 10-0-2 record. to come at us like crazy and we'll have 
With sloppy wins over Bowling Green to rely on some other people to pick up and Detroit and a scoreless tie against the slack." Wisconsin, Head Coach Dennis Grace Some of this help will have to be pro­believes that today's game against Val­vided by the young but experienced de­paraiso is highly critical for the Irish fensive corps. Grace has been upset to begin their drive for a playoff spot. with the lack of shutouts by the Irish 
"We've been talking all week about in recent games. The defense has failed not looking past them (Valparaiso) to to play a complete game, allowing Sunday's game with Akron," said several goals late in games. Grace. "We emphasize not just defense "We have to start tightening up on but total defense, as a team. Sometimes defense," said Mike Drury, a sopho­we have lapses. It's just a matter of more sweeper from Westfield, N.J. "We getting through these lapses." have to go out and play our style, but 
There are other reasons why the there's no time to rest. These are the team cannot afford to overlook today's games that will decide the tourna­game. Injuries will keep out forwards ment." 
The Observer I Eric Bailey Randy Morris and Bruce "Tiger" The rest of the defense consists of 
Wlngbacks Dave Augustyn (light jersey, help the Irish shutdown Valparaiso today McCourt and midfielder Steve 
left) and Dan Gordon (right) will try to in a road contest. 

LaVigne. Also, stopper Paul LaVigne, see DEFENSE, page 13 
NO women's soccer beats IUSB 5-1 
Special to The Observer 
Susie Zilvitis recorded her second hat trick of the season and added an assist as the Notre Dame women's soccer team rolled to a 5-1 win over IU-South Bend Tuesday night at Potowatomi Park. 
Joy Sisolak and Michelle Richards also scored, and Mimi Suba added two as­sists. 
The Irish outshot the Lady Titans 16-2. 
Zilvitis' first hat trick came against St. Joseph's (Ind.) in an 8-1 Notre Dame romp. She leads the Irish in scoring. 
Earlier this season Notre Dame beat IUSB by the same score. 
Notre Dame, now 9-3, will host Calvin Saturday at Krause Stadium at 1 p.m. 

Carter's 9th-inning doublebeats Dodgers 
Associated Press having allowed two earned
Jeffries starts, AL preview...................................................... page 11 
runs in 53 innings for a 0.34 
LOS ANGELES --Gary playing deep, failed to catch into the postseason. earned-run average. Carter's bloop double to center with a diving attempt. The last run Hershiser had The Dodgers scored in the field with two outs in the ninth The ball dribbled past Shelby allowed was in the fifth inning bottom of the first when Mike inning scored two runs and a few feet and, with the runners against Montreal on Aug. 30. Marshall singled home Steve gave New York a dramatic 3-2 moving on the play, The right-hander then pitched Sax from third base with two victory over Los Angeles Tues­McReynolds came all the way five straight shutouts and went outs. At first, it appeared that day night and 1-0 lead in the around from first and just beat 10 scoreless innings against Strawberry in right might have National League playoffs. Shelby's throw to the plate. San Diego on Sept. 28 to set the a play on Marshall's slicing
The Mets had been shut out Game 2 of the best-of -seven record. liner. But he pulled up several for eight innings by Dodger series is scheduled Wednesday Hershiser, 23-8 during the feet before the ball landed a starter Orel Hershiser, who night at Dodger Stadium, start­season with eight shutouts, al­few yards from the foul line. came into the game off a record ing at 10:05 EDT. the Mets will lowed seven hits, struck out The Dodgers added a run in 
streak of 59 consecutive score­send David Cone, 20-3, against five and walked one in 8 1-3 in­the seventh when Mike Scioscia less innings. rookie Tim Belcher, 12-6. nings. He used a variety of led off with a double, moved to 
Gregg Jefferies, who had Randy Myers pitched two in­sliders, curves and sinking third on a grounder and scored three hits, led off the ninth with nings in relief of Dwight fastballs to fool the Mets, who on Alfredo Griffin's single. a single and moved to second Gooden to get the victory. had outscored the Dodgers 49-Hershiser retired nine when Keith Hernandez Howell took the loss. 18 in winning 10 of 11 games straight batters until Jefferies grounded to first. Darryl Gooden allowed only four hits during the season, including all and Hernandez singled with Strawberry doubled to right to and struck out 10 in seven in­six here. two outs in the sixth. But Her­score Jefferies. nings of a game that more than Manager Tommy Lasorda shiser got Strawberry to 
Jay Howell relieved Her­lived up to its billing as a has hinted Hershiser may pitch ground out to first to end the shiser and walked Kevin pitchers' duel. two more games in the series, inning. McReynolds. He struck out Hershiser' s regular-season if necessary. Sax led off the first inning Howard Johnson and had two streak broke the major league Gooden remained unbeaten with a single to right field and strikes on Carter. The Mets mark of 58 set by the Dodgers' at Dodger Stadium. He entered stole second. During the catcher then blooped a short fly Don Drysdale in 1968. It does the game with a 4-0 record in season, Sax was successful on to center that John Shelby, not, however, officially carry six starts at Los Angeles, 42 of 64 steal attempts 
Dreams of '88 erase past Red Sox nightmares 
Two Octobers ago, a lot more went through the legs of Bill Buckner than a little white baseball with 108 stitches. 
With that ball went the dreams of New England and of all those who have lived, and consequently died, with the Boston Red Sox. 
But now those dreams are back. The slate is clean, at least for now. Set aside the Impossible Dream of 1967 which indeed proved to be impossible. Cast away visions of Ed Armbrister colliding with Pudge Fisk as the eternal catcher tried to field a bunt in the 1975 Fall Classic. 
Erase the image of Carl Yastrzemski fading back for a fly ball by Bucky Dent that never came down. Instead the New York Yankees were propelled into the playoffs by a guy who had less power than a nine-volt battery when he wasn't using a corked baseball bat. 
And forget that you ever saw a triumphant Ray Knight crossing the plate at Shea Stadium in the 1986 World Series after Billy Buck let a World Cham­pionship slip through his tired limbs. Let's expel all those horrible memories of the Ghost of Seasons Past. 
This is 1988 and this is a new Boston Red Sox team. This team won 13 straight after the All Star Break when Joe Morgan took over at the helm. Not the Joe Morgan that everyone thought at first. This is not the same Joe Morgan who anchored second base for the Big Red Machine that won two con­secutive championships in the mid-70's. 

Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


Hey, remember that 12th-inning foul-pole shot by Pudge Fisk that won Game Six in the 1975 Series? What a great moment that was--1 swear he waved that thing fair. Boy I sure thought the Bosox had it in the bag then. Momentum, the home field advan­tage in Boston's crackerjack box, Fenway Pahk--we couldn't lose in Game Seven, could we? 
But this is 1988 and this is a new Boston Red Sox baseball team so lets let forget who won that Series. This team won the divisional title the blue-collar way, fighting back from eight games out at the All Star Break and pecking away until topping the AL 
East pack in September for good. No more blowing leads. 
Hey, remember that time we held a 14-and-a-half game lead in July of 1978 and the champagne and lobster were on ice? Mike Torrez was a great pitcher back then. He'd never give up a gopher ball to a man named Bucky. 
But this is 1988 and this is a new Boston Red Sox team so lets forget that pinstriped team from New York. This team made the commitment to get an­other quality starter in July by nab.bing Mike ~oct­dicker from the Orioles. Wouldn't It be great If a guy who started the se~s?n with a tea":l that. lost 21 straight games can fmish the campaign with a World Championship ring on his finger. 
What a comeback. Sort of like when we were one strike away from being eliminated by the California Angels in the 1986 League Championship Series before Dave Henderson's tater. Whoever that pitcher was, I hope the Angels got rid of him. I wouldn't want a guy on my staff who was one strike away from winning it all and then gave up a home run or worse, threw a wild pitch past, say Mookie Wilson. I bet Bob Stanley wouldn't put up with it either. 





