
, I I .
Dig out the gloves r-·­
/ACCENT: 'Antigone' review Partly sunny and cool today. High in the lower 50s. Clear and cold tonight. Low in the
[VIEWPOINT: The road less traveled 
lower 30s. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 33 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Bentsen, Quayle ·face off in VP debate 
Candidates clash on 
Quayle's Quayle's readiness worthiness 
Associated Press collided over the environment, 

questioned
Social Security and campaign 

OMAHA, Neb.--Republican reform. The two men aimed Associated Press vice presidential candidate many of their best lines past Dan Quayle said Wednesday each other and in the direction WASHINGTON--One ques­
night that he has as much ex­of presidential candidates tion, asked time and time perience as John F. Kennedy George Bush and Michael again, towered over all others had when he won the White Dukakis. 
in Wednesday night's vice 
House and is "prepared to lead The Indiana senator said he presidential debate between this country" if necessary. has more experience in critical Dan Quayle and Lloyd"Senator, you're no Jack Ken­areas than Democrat Dukakis Bentsen: could the Indiana nedy," Democratic rival Lloyd and added, "If qualifications 
senator allay doubts about his 
Bentsen shot back in the dra­alone are going to be the issue qualifications for the office? matic highlight of a 90-minute in this campaign, George Bush campaign debate. has more qualifications than 
"That was really uncalled Michael Dukakis and Lloyd ANALYSIS for," the 41-year-old Quayle Bentsen combined." retorted to his 67-year-old Kennedy served in Congress The question showed Quayle rival. Replied Bentsen: 14 years before winning the at his most prepared, looking "You're the one that was White House in 1960. Quayle straight into the camera, his making the comparison, has served 12 years. gestures under control, citing senator ... and I did not think Bentsen took aim at the vice his 12-year record in Congress. the comparison was well president's vote in favor of a "I have more experience and taken." budget plan to curtail Social Se­accomplishments than does the 
The clash over Quayle's curity cost-of-living increases governor of Massachusetts," readiness for high office was and said the Reagan adminis­he said, referring to Demo-the emotional climax of a high­tration had appointed high-stakes debate in which the vice 
see QUAYLE, page 4

presidential candidates also see DEBATE, page 4 Sen. Dan Quayle Sen. Lloyd Bentsen 

Arts and Letters Career Day puts job market on display 
By JOHN O'BRIEN ticular company," said Paul ranged from social services to really like." He compared the told me both the good and bad News Staff Reynolds, associate director of graduate schools to commer­students' search to writing a sides of their jobs.'' Career and Placement Ser­cial banking. The largest term paper. "They come to me Some students came to the 
The prospect of finding the vices, which sponsored the crowds were attracted to the and say 'I want to go into event being fairly sure of their right career field attracted event. representatives of the public radio.' I then give them the choice of career. Most, over 500 students to the annual Career Day, the tenth of its relations and advertising in­names of magazines and however, came to sample the Arts and Letters Career Day kind, allowed students the op­dustries. actresses where they can learn wide variety of career opportu­Wednesday. portunity to speak to represen­Bob Williams of WSBT tele­more about it." nity available to an Arts and 
"The purpose of this event is tatives of 30 career areas about vision, who represented the Senior Dawn Mack, an En­Letters major. to provide students with infor­all aspects of their jobs and to communications industry, said glish major, commented about Kevin Keane, a junior Amer­mation about a specific career receive literature. the event "gives students an the representatives. "They field, not to recruit for a par-The careers represented idea of what the industry is were open and honest. They see CAREER, page 6 

U.S. denies hostage dealing 
Associated Press representative of Iranian Par­Shaheen said Lawless can liament Speaker Hashemi Raf­produce passport and charge 
WASHINGTON--The State sanjani. card travel records that prove Department on Wednesday dis­In reply, Oakley said: "We he was not in that part of the missed as "pure fantasy" an have flatly denied anyone is world during the time that assertion by an Iranian opposi­speaking on behalf of the U.S. Bani-Sadr says he was in­tion leader that the Reagan ad­government." volved. ministration secretly Lawless, president of a negotiated with Tehran for the Washington-based trade in­The New York Times and release of American hostages vestment firm known as U.S.­The Washington Times, in Lebanon. Asia, denied through a business quoting sources they did not 
"There have been no negotia­partner that he had engaged in identify, reported Wednesday tions, no direct contacts be­any talks with Iranians about that Lawless worked for the tween the United States and the hostages. CIA at the U.S. embassy in Iranian officials,'' said spokes­Seoul in the 1970s, during the. woman Phyllis Oakley. "There In a statement Lawless same period Bush's national may be private individuals who relayed through partner security adviser, Donald misrepresented themselves as Therese Shaheen, he said, "I Gregg, served with the CIA in speaking on behalf of the U.S. categorically deny, and state Korea. government." for the record, that I am in­In addition, The New York 
Former Iranian President volved either directly or in­Times quoted an unidentified Abolhassan Bani-Sadr said directly in any discussions or former government official as Tuesday in Paris that Richard negotiations with any party saying that Lawless had Lawless, a former U.S. official, related to attempts to secure worked in the CIA's operations had negotiated in behalf of Vice the release of hostages in directorate until several years President George Bush with a Lebanon.'' ago. 


-------------~-------------------------­
-

Thursday, October 6, 1988
page 2 The Observer 
:IN BRIEF 
A roadblock could block Dan Quayle's visit to Napolean, Ohio next week. City Council members voted Monday 3-2 to close the street in front of the courthouse for Quayle's campaign stop. But at least four votes were needed to block off the street. A sixth Councilman, a Republican, is out of town this week and missed Monday night's meeting. The two Democrats on the Council who voted against street closing said they were not against Quayle's visit, but rather they did not like the way the is~ue was ~r?ught before Council. "I didn't want to be put m the pos1tlon to make this decision without any prior notice. So I'm looking at it as he (Mayor Steven Lankenau) wants special per­mission from me for a gala Republican meeting out in front of the courthouse .... I could not say yes to that," he said. Bachman said after the vote he suggested that Quayle should appear at the high school football stadium.--Asso­ciated Press 
Sterilization will affect the sentencing of an Indianapolis 
woman found guilty of neglect in the death of her four­
year-old son. Melody S. Baldwin, 29, was sterilized Tues­
day after Marion Superior Court Judge Roy E. Jones had 
suggested he would be lenient with Baldwin if she under­
went the procedure. "She didn't like it, but said she wanted 
to do it mainly to cooperate with the court," James D. 
Slagle, half-brother to Baldwin, said following a h~aring 
to allow Baldwin to be released on bond. Slagle said she 
entered into the plea agreement because she ~as 
"threatened" with the possibility of a 20-to 50-year pnson 
term on the murder charge. Baldwin gave birth to a son 
Sunday and gave him up for adoption. She faces a maxi­
mum sentence of 20 years in prison. --Associated Press 

:oF INTEREST .I 
Program in Global Col!lmunity ND:SMC students can study in Cuernavca, MeXIco, for the Sprmg Term 19~9. Information sessions will be held at the Center for Soc1al Concerns at Noon and 4:30p.m. today. -The Observer 
A Special Rosary Service will be held at 6:45p.m. 
in Sacred Heart Church lead by members of Student Gov­
ernment. -The Observer 
Judicial Council will meet tonight at 8:00p.m. in the 
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. -The Ob­server 
Student Union Board Special Events Commis­
sion will meet today in the Notre Dame room, LaFortune 
Student Center. New members are welcome. -The Obser­ver 
Campus-Wide Can ~ollection meet_s today at. 7 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. All mterested m being dorm representatives must attend (SEALA in­cluded). -The Observer 
Sigfried Hall Open House will take place this Saturday. We will show the Pitt game on TV, have a half­time cookout and celebrate mass with Fr. Malloy after the game. -The Observer 
Seniors, tomorrow is the deadline for Reflection Group 
sign-ups. Don't miss your chance. Stop by the Center for 
Social Concerns and sign-up. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer rna~ office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general-interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus anttlocal lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ............. Annette Rowland Accent Designer ................ Mike Conway 
~:;1.~t::::ta~t B~~~d·B~~~!~~ ~~:.~_t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i:>ia:~k~:::;:; 
........................................... Andy Schlidt ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey News Editor.. Sara Marley, Regis Coccia SMC Day Editor ............... Maura Reidy Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber Photographer .................. Heleni Korwek Sport• Copy Editor................ Pete Skiko .......................................Laura Matthias Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Ann Hebenstreit Ad Designer ........................ Molly Killen Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi ....................................Tammy Martinez Accent Editor ................... Mike Conway ...............................................Jodi Topel Accent Copy Editor.. Michelle Berninger ....................................... Shannon Roach 
Tile Obeener (USPS S99 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. ~ Obllerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S:ZS per semester) by writina ~ Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
~ o..r.er is a member of ~ Aaodaled Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Cleaning up your act is a dirty business 
Laundry is one of those small chores moms take care of, children take for granted, and college students take home. 
In between breaks, however, students are forced to bite the bullet, collect their quarters and hit the wash room themselves. 
When I was younger, I considered laundry a rather mystical practice. Every night, I'd habitually discard my dirty clothes in the laundry chute, and the next day they'd magi­cally reappear in my dresser drawers, fresh and folded. 
I wasn't sure exactly what happened during those quiet hours between dusk and dawn down in the depths of my basement, but whatever it was kept me in spotless shirts ami clean jeans, so I didn't complain. 
Ah, ignorance was bliss! 
The summer before my freshman year, the myth was dispelled. One early August morning, Mom dropped the bomb. After summoning me down to the laundry room, she carefully ex­plained that it was meticulous mothers-and not Dynamo dwarves-that kept kids in clean clothes. Adding insult to injury, she explained that one day I, too, would be subject to this foul chore. 
Reality really set in the day I left for school. As my parents kissed me goodbye, Mom pushed a roll of quarters into my palm. 


Now if that wasn't a symbolic gesture, I don't know what is. on the upper halves of their bodies in one ma­
My dorm allots Thursday nights "Guys' chine, and the articles they wear on their bot­night" in the laundry room. Some girls take tom halves in another. this opportunity to do their own wash, to do At this point, some sympathetic observer their roommates' wash or to just saunter by usually intervenes and decides to assist the the laundry room every ten minutes. After all, poor, misguided soul. She (it is invariably a it's only a matter of time before they're sum­"she") explains that clothes must be washed moned in to aid some "dude in distress." according to their color. 
I, however, have not fallen prey to this Ah-hah! The male is on his way to making warped scheme. Instead, on Thursday nights, laundry history now! But he's still a little con­I lock myself in my room, pull the shades and fused.... "Should I put the fabric softner in take the phone off the hook. . the washer or in the dryer?". . . . "Do black 
There is no sight more pitiful than watchmg socks bleed?" a man wash clothes for the first time. These boys can ace metallurgical engineering exams, If no one is around to answer such earth­calculate the number of moles in any compound shattering questions, guys will not hesitate to and list every battle of the Prussian War, but walk upstairs, knock on random doors and they can't decide whether to wash their tube plead for an explanation. If a girl is gulliblesocks in hot or cold water. enough to answer the door on a Thursday night, 
On laundry night, guys will stagger into the she can abandon all hope of studying. Instead, 
wash room, lugging several overflowing clothes she'll undoubtedly spend the next few hours hampers behind them. (Most males postpone teaching this domestic dufus the wonders of laundry as long as possible -generally until their modern lint removers. clothes can walk to the cleaners themselves.) And there are always the guys who let their They then trudge to a remote corner of the fingers do the walking. Leafing through the laundry room, pour the contents of their phone book, they'll call random numbers until hampers out onto the floor and stare at the heap they strike a gold mine (alias a girls' dorm). helplessly. "This is Farley Hall? Great. Can you go down 
After a few moments-if they're feeling par­to the laundry room and see if there's a guy ticularly ambitious -the guys proceed to place named Bruce down there? He forgot this deter­their clothes into piles. Unfortunately, logic gent. I'm sure you'll recognize him-he's the one rarely prevails. Men cannot understand why in the pink undershirt with the bleach they can't simply wash all the clothes they wear stains...." 

has classic rock: 
ac/dc • aerosmith • bachman turner overdrive • bad company the band • beach boys • the beatles • blue oyster cult • boston david bowie • jimmy buffet • the byrds • the cars • eric clapton jimmy cliff • cream • credence clearwater revival • jim croce crosby stills nash & young • deep purple • dire straits • the dooble brothers • the doors • bob dylan • the eagles • electric light orchestra o emerson lake & palmer • fleetwood mac foreigner o free • peter gabriel • genesis • grand funk railroad 
the grateful dead o the guess who • george harrison • heart jiml hendrix • the james gang • Jethro tull • billy joel • elton john o kansas • the kinks • led zeppelin o John lennon • lynyrd skynyrd • paul m•cartney • bob marley & the wallers o John cougar mellencamp o steve miller band • moody blues • van morrlsson • tom petty & the heartbreakers • pink floyd • robert plant • the pollee • lou reed • rolling stones • rush o santana scorpions • simon & garfunkel • bruce sprlngsteen • steely dan steppenwolf o cat stevens • rod stewart • sting • supertramp james taylor • traffic • u2 o joe walsh • the who • wings • yes 
neil young • zz top • 

visa and mastercard accepted hours: mon.-fri. 12-8 basement of Iafortune 


~ 

Thursday, October 6, 1988 The Observer page 3 
SOCCER CITY  News Staff  er, Imagewritter II printer and accessories will be leased with  of Haggar is the hub of student government life," says Junior  
ONE BLOCK EAST on SA Intersection of 23 and Ironwood  23 ..A  from  The St. Mary's Board of Governance voted last night in favor of purchasing a MAC SE  an option to buy in the second semester.  Class President Lisa Catenac­ci.  
computer for student govern- The proposed location for the  The computer will be acces- 
IFOOSBALLl  ~~ '.<~(.(. ....  ment use. "This is a worthwhile invest­ment and one goal of our ad- computer is 306 Haggar College Center, a room often used by student government. This loca­ sible for student government use during normal hours for Haggar, 7:30 a.m.-midnight on  
nd Other Games  Tournaments on Weekends  ministration," said Julie Par­rish, student body president.  tion was considered for secur­ity reasons and its close prox­ weekdays and 7:30 a.m.-2 a.m. on weekends. The computer  
WIN$$$ Great Fun MON-FRI 3-10PM, SAT 1-11 PM, SUN EVENINGS  The Board ratified a written proposal from Student Govern­ment by a 21-1-1 vote.  imity to student government offices. "It's a good location for the  will not be available when the room is reserved for club meetings.  

t~-<6'-~~~~~__..__._~---~·-. 
§ 0.5.-Soviet Relations: 
Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
,.ONIGR,. A,. ,.HE JACC 8 ,.0 10 PM 
TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff I $6-adults 
Tickets should be purchased in advance. 


On sale at Dining Halls During Lunch 9-5 JACC, Gate 1 0 
Reception--at Snite Atrium Thursday, Oct. 6, 5-6 pm Sponsored by Hall fellows 
All Are Welcome!! 



L.~~~~~<#"o~.q.Q>~~~~tb"KbM.-~~~-"Mh"Kb><b">c~O...~~ 



Speaker pushes for consistent life ethic 
By BRIDGET 
GOEYVAERTS 
News Staff 
Abortion is not the only pro­life issue that must be ad­dressed today, according to Ronald Sider, executive direc­tor of a political action commit­tee that supports political can­didates who uphold a "consistent life ethic." 
The major pro-life issues are abortion, nuclear arms and poverty, Sider said last night in a lecture in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Sider, the head of JustLife, a group which supports pro-life political candidates, told stu­dents that a total commitment to all aspects of life is neces­sary for a consistent pro-life et­hic. He said JustLife agrees with Cardinal Joseph Bernar­din, archbishop of Chicago, on the need for a consistent ethic of life. One cannot speak out against abortion and support the nuclear arms race, for this would be contradictory to the pro-life ethic as a whole, Sider said. 
JustLife is based on the Chr­istian belief that "all life is pre­cious" Sider said, adding that life must be whole with God, neighbor and earth. 
This wholeness is the basis for the stand the organization takes, that all pro-life issues are of equal value. Sider said neither the liberals nor the con­servatives are right on the various issues. -He made it clear that consistency is of the utmost importance, and that the true test is "whether or not we have the courage to let the author of life set the agenda for our life." 
JustLife has endorsed 35 can­didates of both parties, includ­ing third Congressional Dis­trict candidate Tom Ward, a Notre Dame graduate, for their opposition to legalized abortion and other issues, Sider said. 
The organization supports neither presidential candidates for the 1988 election. 

Ronald Sider, left, relaxes before speaking on 
pro-life issues facing voters today. Sider, executive 

Board votes for St. Mary's computer 
By MARY BETH BLAJDA The standard Apple comput­computer since the third floor 

l.'x. prepared to take over "without 
~ Center t~ Social Concerns : any margin for error." "The debate is about the presidency itself," he said. ,~ "The stakes could not be 

1: I·Jj~tflf\lll\ : 
higher.'' 



,: : 
More than once Quayle in­sisted that "age alone" was not 
1• *************************** •
•

the issue, but experience. He said that on arms control, the 
• 

'A comm~nity of support, reconciliation, and adjustment, the •
deficit and education, he had a 
:feast ofOur Lady of tfie 1\{Jsary 

• :J:smas Hocsa of Michlana offers a unique opportuniiy lor Saint
record in Congress, and said, 
• \iar(s ond Notre Dame students to share in a life-tmining •
Vigi[ 1\fJsary Service

"I'm prepared" to take over in 
e::periencc with former prisoners. Together an environment of • 
the event of the death of the 
• ':~st. friendship, and hope can be buill to provide the confidence
cr!iursaay, Octo6er 6, 1988 6:45pm 

• and courage necessary for each to enter sodety as a valuable and • • intesral member." • 
president. 
Asked what his first step 
SacreaJieart Cnurcn

would be, he replied, "First I'd 
• Tim Dempsey, Resident of Oismas House •
say a prayer for myself, for the country that 1was about to lead Sponsorec£ 6y tlie Office ofCampus Ministry 
and then I would assemble his •••••••-•••l®l--~}IW&'->.a···.-&·'''iiW<~ 
vention when Quayle's 
Jurisprudence of Juvenile Justice" Vietnam-era service in the Na­tional Guard was at issue. 
Noon

The vice presidential rivals 
Friday, October 7 • e
shook hands and smiled as they 
Room 220 Law School Courtroom • • 


__lllll!. • • • 
met at center stage for the .___....._.........................iiiiiii.... beginning of their televised debate. The television 
audi-••!®IE•f<?l.l'Jilli®•MWOJ•••••••••••-.. •• l 'PH 2 8J ••
WANTEP: 


Quayle 
continued from page 1 
cratic presidential nominee Michael Dukakis. 
As the debate progressed, the qualifications question came up again and again and Quayle responded each time without 
an obvious misstep. You could almost hear George Bush sigh with relief. 
Did you see anything that 
made you wince, Bush cam­
paign chairman James Baker 
was asked immediately after the debate. "I didn't see anyth­ing that made we wince. When you think about what might have happened, we have to be pretty happy," he said. 
If the winner of this debate were determined by advance
..,,.,·~ ' 
expectations, Quayle had a 
j. ,~ ··"' 
claim to victory.
,.:~.·'"' 

The Observer I Erin Cusack He walked on stage with both
Antigone 
his supporters and opponents lsmene (Megan Me Cabe), left, tries to talk was presented last night in O'Laughlin Auditorium wondering if he would stumble Antigone (Kristen Schumacher), right, out of and will continue through Sunday. badly. He disappointed those burying their dead brother, Polyneices. The play who hoped he would. 
Thursday, October 6, 1988
page4 The Observer 
But it was not clear whether Quayle eliminated the doubts. That may not be known until Americans vote on Nov. 8. 
When Quayle compared his experience to that of John F. Kennedy, it precipitated the sharpest clash of the 90-minute debate. 
"Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine," said Bentsen, looking at his 41-year-old opponent. "Senator you're no Jack Ken­nedy " ' 
· 

"That was uncalled for, 
senator," retorted Quayle. 

The format helped. All the 
questions were asked by a 
panel of four journalists. The 
candidates had no opportunity 
to question each other directly. 
But the panel kept the focus on the qualifications issue. Four times Quayle was asked to cite his qualifications or say what he would do if suddenly he became president. 
(the president's) people and so much so that moderator talk." Judy Woodruff asked for

Debate 
Later, Quayle said he did not silence during the high-stakes want to address hypothetical debate.
continued from page 1 
questions but wanted to assure level environmental officials voters, "I will be prepared to Just as Quayle was asked to who were the equivalent of lead this country." defend his qualifications, Bonnie and Clyde. Bentsen was asked about his 
Asked why voters would The debate produced differences with Dukakis on want to install a Democrat in periodic boos, cheer and such issues as aid to the the White House given current laughter from the audience in Nicaraguan rebels, the death record low unemployment and the Omaha Civic Auditorium, penalty and gun control. 
ence numbered in the millions, Bush and Dukakis among them. 
The debate was dominated from the beginning by ques­tions over the qualifications the 41-year-old Quayle possesses for the vice presidency. 
Bentsen, who has sharply questioned his rival's maturity on the campaign trail, said a 
vice president must be 
I ~ STUDENTS TO LIVE WITH 
1 • 1»~'=-i 1r17fr1 \ 
FORMER PRISONERS • 
E e . ~ 2=-~ ~ e 
,. ~ 1!1.=:::;-~ ==---*************•
i: ~DI. f!'M 1( S' : ~· ..} )..1') n Contact •
I
: fJ0 U$!:} Kathy Roye: (7862) : 

I
: f 



1


MIRIAM MAKEBA 
AND 

HUGH MASEKELA 
Tickets Available at• Joyce ACC Box Office ~ -• LaFortune Box Office 239-7442 ~ ~ ,,..~.... • O'Laughlin Aud. 284-4626 
low inflation under the Republicans' guidance, Bentsen referred to record deficits. "If you let me write $200 billion in hot checks every year, I could give you the illu­sion of prosperity, too," he said. 
Bentsen said Quayle had one of the worst voting records in the Senate on veterans' issues, and said his rival had spon­sored legislation to tax the combat pay and disability pay for "people who are lying in the hospital." 
He demanded an explanation but the debate turned to an­other question and Quayle never addressed the subject, which also came up in the days following the Republican con­
~--THE THOMAS J..--....... 
\ V LHITE CENTER 
WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT-
Presents A lecture By 
Professor Franklin E. Zimring University of California at Berkley School of Law 
On "Waiver, Capital Punishment, and the 

-~---~------~------~---·-·­
Thursday, October 6, 1988 The Observer pageS 

Bishop, nun speak on pastoral letter 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES know that they are appreciat­Staff Reporter ed. "We hope to dispell some of the unconscious sexism in 
The chairman of the U.S. Bis­the Church," Imesch added. hop's Committee on Women in Butler said that on reading the Church, Bishop Joseph Im­the responses from women that esch, and a consultant to the "there was an overwhelming committee, Sister Sara Butler, sense that women want to be spoke Wednesday on "Women regarded as persons." She in the Church: A Pastoral Let­noted that the committee found ter in the Making." "sexism to be a moral and so­
The committee issued a first cial evil." draft of its letter last April. Since that point there have The speakers said that the been revisions to the letter, and committee did not cover the the bishops hope to have a final topic of the ordination of wo­draft out by November of next men. Imesch stated, "A pas­year. toral letter is not where a 
In order to let women best theological argument is voice their concerns, the com-advanced, it's a pastoral com­mittee issued thousands of mentary a situation." Butler questionnaires to women in concurred that the purpose was dioceses, college campuses not to cover new ground, but to and the military. "It was the "chart how we feel" about the concern that the letter come role of women in the Church. not from the bishops and con-Butler also observed that the sultants down, but from the recent papal letter on the dig­grass roots up," said Imesch. nity of women basically sup-
He noted that the committee ported the work that the com­wished to make people aware mittee was doing, with both of the "great gift of women to stressing respect and equality the Church," and to let women for women. 
r·······How·to·make··a~filt···*···l Abortion 
protestors * * continue
* ~ I : * 
Atlanta sit

* I *
* *
* ~ !* Associated Press
i .. ·.1 ~ • ATLANTA--Police headed
* , * off anti-abortion sit-ins Wed­
* ····--··'"'-·•'···~-•···'·•·····•'·•''"'~"''······""·"'·"""""'·····""~'"'"''"""'•···/ ~ nesday by impounding the
* '" d h 11 * demonstrators' bus and in­
~ The American Express Car is a it virtua y * creasing security at clinics 
~ an}Where you shop, from Los Angeles to * 
* 
London. Whether you're buying books, baseball * where 360 people were arrested 

* 
tickets or brunch. So during college and after, * a day earlier during the


! * protesters' "siege of Atlanta."
* 
it's the perfect way to pay for just about ~ Officers dragged three

* 
everything you'll want. * demonstrators to police vans

* 
How to get * Wednesday. Most! the Card now. * demonstrators, however, lim­

* 
~ ited activities to praying and

* 
College is the first * singing hymns. 


* sign of success. And * 
* 
because we believe in your * The bus was impounded as it

* 
d , * took demonstrators from a

* 
potential, we've rna eit easier 10r * silent vigil at one clinic to a ~ students of this school to get the * demonstration at another.

* 
American Express Card right ! "The officer determined (the 

* 
now-even without a job or a * bus) to be unsafe for operation. ~ credit history. So whether you're an * When it was stopped there was

* 
underclassman, senior or : smoke coming out and it was

* 
grad student, look into * crowded with too many ~ our automatic approval * people," said police spokes­* offers. For details pick up an * woman Myrna May. She said

* 
application on campus. Or call ! she did not know how many

* 
1-800-THE-CARD and ask for a * were aboard.! student application. * Protesters on Tuesday com­

* 
The American Express Card. * plained that police treated

* 
h 1 h ! them with unnecessary harsh­

* 
Don't Leave Sc oo Wit out Ie * ness, twisting arms and fingers ~ * and using pressure-point holds 

* 
~ just under the ears to force* * them into buses.


! * Some screamed or cried as
* ~ they were taken away, and four * * were treated for apparently* * minor injuries. 
! * George Napper, Atlanta
* ~ commissioner of public safety, * * said he believed there were iso­! ~ lated arrests "in which police* * could have acted more gently"* * but that he thought the overall ~ * behavior was justified. 
Demonstrators on Wednes­
* *
* * day arrived gradually at the
* * 
Feminist Women's Health

* * 
Clinic, where police arrested** ** one for trying to jump a bar­
* * as­ricade and two others for
* ~ 
~ C> 1988 American Express Travel Related StrYices Company. Inc. * saulting a woman trying to en­
* 
ter the clinic, W. Holley said. 
t************************************************************************ 
-~-----~~ ------~ -----~~---...
~ --------~--------­
Thursday, October 6, 1988
page6 The Observer 
....
-Pinochet gets lead 
in Chile's vote tally 
AsSOCiated Press 

Farewell to Strauss 
Inhabitants of the Bavarian town of Regensburg prime minister Franz Strauss in St. Pius Church. are passing the coffin with the body of Bavarian 
profession and preparing to in­
Career 
terview while sophomores are at the stage where chosing a
continued from page 1 
general field is important." 
ican studies major, said, "I'm 
not ready to decide on a career, According to Reynolds, the 
but I am looking into possibili­wide variety of industry repre­
ties that I have experience in sentatives shows that a liberal 
or potential in." arts major is in great demand. 
Reynolds and Wiliams "A person with a liberal arts 
stressed that it is important to degree has the analytical, in­
choose a general career as terpersonal, and communica­
early as possible. "Seniors tion skills that are important 
should be choosing a particular now," said Reynolds. 
Researchers develop contraceptive vaccine 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --An experi­mental contraceptive vaccine has blocked fertility without fail in female and male guinea pigs, researchers report, raising prospects that a similar approach might one day work for women and men. 
The vaccine is designed to prevent fertilization, which may make it more widely ac­ceptable than another vaccine already in human testing that stops development of the embryo, other scientists said. 
Still, "There are many things about it that would have to be changed or im­proved to make it a useful method for either agricultural animals or humans," cau­tioned researcher Paul Primakoff. 
Primakoff and colleagues at the University of Connec­ticut Health Center in Far­mington report the experi­ment in Thursday's issue of the British journal Nature. 
It is the first demonstration of contraception without fail from a vaccine, experts said. 
None of the 25 female guinea pigs that got the vac­cine before mating had lit­ters, nor did the mates of the six immunized male guinea pigs. Animals that received sham immunizations for com­parison purposes remained fertile. 
The vaccine's effect WqS 

temporary. Eleven of 24 
females tested had regained 
fertility by nine to 11 months 
after the immunization, and 
all four of the longest-studied 
group had delivered litters by 
15 months. Among the males, four of six had regained fer­tility by seven months after the immunization. 
tn a telephone interview, 
Primakoff said his team has 
since produced contraception 
in 17 other male guinea pigs. 
The vaccine is designed to 

make the body's disease­
fighting immune system at­
tack a protein found in guinea 
pig sperm. The details of just 
how that blocks fertility in 
guinea pigs are not known, 
Primakoff said. 
But immune system proteins called antibodies, taken from the immunized females, prevented sperm from binding normally to guinea pig eggs in the test tube. That suggests the vac­cine blocks fertilization within vaccinated females, he said. 
Fred Nelson, a Notre Dame alumnu$ Wi#t a degee in Amer­ican studies who now works for Leo Burnett Advertising, stressed the value of a Liberal Arts degree in looking for a job. "Leo Burnett looks for people who knows how to think, how to communicate and how to relate. My liberal arts back­ground gave me an edge in in­terviewing because I had the ability to communicate and 
feet." 
Associated Press 

SANTIAGO, Chile--Military President Augusto Pinochet took an early lead in prelimi­nary returns Wednesday in a plebiscite to decide whether his 15-year rule should be extended to 1997 in a vote which was both massive and peaceful. 
In the Interior Ministry's first announced returns from 79 of the 22,248 voting tables nationwide, "yes" votes for continuing Pinochet's presidency totaled 10,628, while "no" votes totaled 7 ,511. 
Dear Claire, 
HAPPY 
21a,tJ 
Much love from Mom, Dad, &an (9 Laurel 
October 9 
Interior Ministry under sec­retary Alberto Cardemil said 168 votes were blank and 222 ballots were annulled for being wrongly marked. 
The opposition charged that the initial returns were selec­tive and too small a sample. Narciso Irureta, a vice presi­dent of the Christian Demo­cratic Party, said the ministry withheld returns from some tables where "no" votes won a majority in "an intent at fraud that could develop during the night." 
Open stage. Open mike. 
Come, perform, enjoy. Anything goes! 7-9P.M. 


Thursday, October 6, 1988 
The Observer page 7 

Security Beat 
MONDAY, OCT. 3 
6:59 a.m. A construction 
. worker reported the theft of two ex tension cords from the southwest door of Dillon Hall sometime between 3 and 6 
p.m. on 9/29. His loss is estimated at $100. 
I 0 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident was involved in a minor traffic accident in the D­2 Lot. The accident occurred on 9/13 at 2:45 p.m. Damage was minimaL 

TUESDAY, OCT. 4 
9:22 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her cassette recorder from her locked carrel in the Hesburgh Library sometime between 5 
p.m.  on  9/28 and 8 a.m.  on  
I 0/4.  Her loss is estimated  at  
$25.  

I:20 p.m. A resident of St. Edward's Hall reported that his 
New polls show Bush ahead 
The Observer I Heleni Kowek 

Hey look over there 
Two Saint Mary's College students rush from LeMans Hall to lunch on Wednesday while fighting the bitter cold wind. 
Both surveys found many  
voters expressing concern  
about Bush's running mate,  
Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana.  
L..L.JL..._.,ILJLJ:u Amy Lynne Raczkowski  
STEAKS mvPRIMERIB . SEAFOOD ~IC H2,~  
Love, ~},-, ,.Li-i i ·:;:::,;;.;;,~... Mom, Dad and -­, ... '~:'~1 ~;. ·,:(~~ ~ ·.~ : "THE JAYSTER"  Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925  



A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN:  September 16-18, 1988 • November 11-13, 1988 February 3-5, 1989 March 31-April 2, 1989  
CONTACT:  Campus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242  
SIGN UP  

DEADLINE: OCTOBER 14, 1988 
COST: $15.00 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --A second na­tional poll has found Democrat Michael Dukakis closing on George Bush in the presidential race, although a newer survey released Wednesday gave the Republican a slightly better lead. 
OFFICE OF
•
0MPUS MINISTRY 
truck was damaged while parked in the D-2 Lot sometime between 9/29 and I0/4. Damage estimates are unkown at this time. 
II :55 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his Walkman and checks from his backpack . The theft occurred sometime between 3 p.m. on 9/28 and 3 p.m. on 10/3 in Riley HaiL His loss is estimated at $70. 

The newer poll, an ABC News-Washington Post survey conducted from Sept. 28 through Tuesday, put the race at 51-44 percent with the Republicans in the numerical lead. The poll of 1,196 likely voters had an error margin of about four points. 
In the other survey, a Harris poll conducted last week, the Republicans won support from 49 percent of 1,235likely voters, to 46 percent for the Democrats. It also was a dead 
heat,  given  the  three-point  
margin of err or.  
A  Harris  poll  early  last  

month put the race a bit wider, 
at 50-44 with Bush and Quayle ahead. Similarly, a CBS News­New York Times poll released Tuesday put the race at 48-46, tightened from 49-44 later last month. 
The ABC-Post and Harris polls were released on the night of Quayle's debate with Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, the Democratic vice presidential nominee. Like other polls, both found doubts about Quayle's qualifications for office. 
In the ABC-Post poll, 40 per­cent said Quayle was qualified to be vice president, but 33 per­cent said not; the rest didn't know. By contrast, 67 percent said Bentsen was qualified and just 7 percent said not. 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
ACCENT COPY EDITOR 
For further information contact 
Beth Healy at 283-1264 
IP----------------~I
OPENING SOON I I
I ®(])DJ@ill 9~ I
I I
South Bend's Newest Restaurant 
I Now accepting applications for: cooks, 1 I busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid I1 I vacations, 0/otips I Part time 8-20 hours
I I
Full time 40 hours or more 
I I
Apply from 1-7, Monday-Fridav 
I Very close to campus I I phone 277-7678 I I I
I JI
S.R.23 
I i i I
I :J 2046 S.R.23 -• 8. 
L-~------------­
Viewpoint

page 8 Thursday, October 6, 1988 
Life beyond the Big Eight 
Sometime last spring I realized that program. (VISTA is the domestic coun­it's been 10 years since I graduated terpart of the Peace Corps) Why from college. Mter getting over the VISTA? It offered adventure, a chance shock of 10 years, I began thinking to experience a way of life very differ­about the path that took me from Notre ent from anything I knew. It offered a Dame to where I am today. I remember chance to help the people who got dealt I spent most of my senior year thinking twos and threes in the game of life, about careers, and as a matter of fact, while people like me got all the face just about everybody at Notre Dame is cards, and it offered a chance to prove usually thinking about careers in one to myself that I could accomplish some­way or another. The freshmen and sop­thing with just my own mettle, without homores are deciding on their majors, my upper-middle class script support­the juniors are thinking about summer ing me. internships, and the seniors are think­I ended up living in rural Alabama ing about job interviews and the reality and working for an organization that check that's been scheduled for them ran a network of low-income coopera­next June 1. tives and credit unions and also did 
some civil right and advocacy work for 

James Fredian its constituency. For two years I was a 
white boy from the suburbs living in a 

guest column trailer with hot and cold running ro­
dents in an all-black community in a 

John Lennon once said that "Life is state I'd never been to before, and I what happens while you're busy was fifty miles from the nearest making other plans" and I find more McDonald's and twenty miles from the truth in that statement every day. If nearest bar. This was total culture someone would have told me during my shock. But it was also the most senior year that my life was going to stimulating experience of my life and turn out the way it actually has, I would the best decision I ever made. have had them checked for drug abuse. Near the end of my VISTA tenure, I In the mid-seventies it seemed that accepted a job with one of the account­career hysteria was at its zenith. It ing firms that had offered me a job seemed that everyone I knew was prep­during my senior year. But before I ping for law or medical school or a Big started that job I had the summer off. Eight accounting firm. Even the liberal and time to try one more adventure. arts people were planning on MBA This time it brought me to Yellowstone school. Nobody was planning on National Park as the controller of one opening a philosophy shop or hitchhik­of the hotels. It was just supposed to be ing across America. I fell right in with a summer job, but it was the best three the zeitgeist and became an accounting months I've ever had. VISTA was very major because it seemed to have been gfatifying, but it was rarely fun. scripted for me that way. Working in Yellowstone was like going 
to college with no homework, and with 

I could accomplish active, adventurous people who loved 
the mountains and Yellowstone as

something with just my 
much as I came to. I would have loved 

own mettle, without my 
to stay, but I had a date with the real upper-middle class world. I worked at the accounting firm for three years and in many ways it
script supporting me. 
was just what I had expected of a real 

The problem was that I could never world job. I learned a lot, I made a lot think of any way to justify passing up of money, and I was on a career track a job or grad school, even temporarily. in a good profession, but as time went A professor finally told me that no mat­on I increasingly felt that something ter what parents, friends, or anyone was missing. else expected of me I was the only one I had my epiphany while watching a who would have to live with the deci­special on Martin Luther King. I ad­
sions I have made. The answer had mired him because he always held his been there all the time, but I had trouble own in the face of public opinion, and seeing it. The next day I sent letters of that made me take a look at my own regret to the accounting firms and grad situation. What I realized was that in schools. VISTA I had done significant work that 
My decision of what to do, now that I found fulfilling, but as an accountant I had veered out of the mainstream, I found the work to be none of the above. was to become a volunteer in the VISTA I had what other people considered a 
Doonesbury 
... ANO TH&N A FR/CNO OF 
50 E..VeR.Y7HIM:3 71JRNW OW A f!<Jf3NO INTROOUC8D 
GREAT, Al-THOUGH FOR. A M& 77J MRS. 7RJJMP'5 
IUH!t& THeRE. THINSS LIXJKaJ PCRSONNU 1/!Ree-701< f 
PRETTY GRJM... 
\ 

10-~ 
good job, but I didn't think it was a good job because I just didn't like the work. What I really wanted to do was work in Yellowstone again, so I managed to get myself a position as a manager trainee there while I was on leave of absence from the accounting firm. I had another great summer and at the end of the season I was offered a job as a manager if I wanted to return the following summer. I did audits and tax returns for one more winter and realized conclusively that I'd had enough of that aggravation, so I went back to Yellowstone and became a hotel manager. 
That was four years ago and I'm still pretty happy with the decision I made. My job and my lifestyle are well out of the mainstream once again and people are always asking me when I'm going to get a real job, as if I just happened into this lifestyle rather than having chosen it. 
Although work and money seem to denominate everything we do these days, I've found that time is my most important asset. I like my job, but it's just my job, not my life. I have other important things to do besides work (I think my excuse in college was "My education doesn't end when I leave the classroom"). I certainly don't work as many hours as my career-oriented friends do, but I think I use my ample free time well. 
Hunter S. Thompson once said, "I wouldn't recommend drugs, alcohol, and violence to anyone, but they've al­ways worked well for me." Similarly, I wouldn't try to proselytize you for a lifestyle like mine. What I will do, though, is to encourage you to have the conviction to march to the drummer you hear no matter how unconventional it might sound. If a career job or grad school is the right choice for you after graduation, then go for it, but don't be limited by those two choices. There is a whole world of possibilities out there for you if you'll just open yourself up to it. Don't get caught up in the jolYgrad school mind set just because those are the safe decisions or because "Mom will be @.. proud." 

At my graduation in May of 1978, Fr. Hesburgh quoted from the Robert Frost poem "The Road Not Taken" in which a traveler chooses the less traveled road rather than the well beaten path. I think Fr. Hesburgh was trying to en­courage us to be creative in our ongoing career development and to consider more of the alternatives available to us. Perhaps he was even trying to ex­press a belief that we graduates had acquired something special during our Notre Dame years that would inspire us to use our talents for more than the pursuit of an upper-middle class life­style. But in any case, I think he wanted us to realize that we could use any num­ber of strategies, including unconven­tional ones, to fulfill our career and life­style aspirations. 
James Fredian is a 1978 Notre Dame graduate 
P.O. Box Q 
Peace and Justice group to meet tonite 
Dear Editor: 
We have joined together to educate ourselves and others in order to grow in the power of our common humanity, to lead us to an understanding of our responsibilities in the world today and to the action we must take accordingly. This is the statement of purpose for a group of students on campus concerned with social justice: Women United for Justice and Peace. Peace and justice are universal issues not limited by sex, race or nationality. Our name reflects a special interest in how these issues affect our lives through a female's per­spective. In no way is our name meant to imply a discriminatory bias. 

A major goal of our community is to disseminate information throughout the student body. Awareness is the first step to solving any problem. We at­tempt to positively approach all vital issues through informed discussion and creative action in affirmation of the belief that together we can make a dif­ference for peace and justice. Women United for Peace and Justice will hold a meeting tonight, Oct. 6, at 7 p.m. at the CSC Coffeehouse. We welcome and encourage all women and men on this campus to attend the meeting to take a step toward fulfilling our obligation as peacemakers and proponents of so­cial justice. 
Teresa Berg Breen-Phillips Hall Oct. 5, 1988 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Never again would I allow anyone to claim that God was on any one side during a war. Praising the Lord and passing the ammunition are mutually exclusive ideas." 
Phil Donahue "My Own Story, Donahue" 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager •................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of t~e University of 
News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 
is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
--------------------------------------~ ~~-~-----------------­
Accent ­
Thursday, October 6, 1988 page 9 
'Antigone' pertinent to the times 

Kristen Schumacher (Antigone) and Mark Constanzl (Creon) star In Jean Anoullh's adaptlon of Sophocles' classic myth, "Antigone." 
Johnson rebuttal 
RICHARD THORNBURGH accent writer 
Jimmy Johnson University of Miami Miami, Florida 
To the Notre Dame Student Body: 
All right, listen up. You people been gettin' on my case lately, and its startin' to make my ulcers bubble. The doc says I won't be able to eat any more oranges unless you people lay off, so let's set the record straight on a few things. 
First of all, I don't appreciate the hate calls. Ain't nothing that ticks me off more than bein' interrupted from scoring up a few lines for a high school prospect just to hear one of you smart-alecs tellin' me that you hate me now. Heck, I don't care if you hate me now or hate me later as long as you hate me. I wouldn't know what to do if everyone outside Miami didn't hate me. 
There also seems to be a little misconception about the difficulty of our football schedule. I don't care what folks say, we play some of the toughest competitors in college football week in and week out with no relief. We have to face teams like Northwest Mississippi State at Jackson (NMSJ) and Landrum College that force us to play the game of our life every week. Who does Notre Dame have to play that's any good? Pittsburgh, Penn State, USC? Gimme a break. 
Another thing you intellectual snobs like to poke at is our academic program. Now, we may not have any Rhodes scholars, but I'll have you know that we have the nation's leading programs in intramural bowling, gator wrestling, drug running, and sports car appreciation. How 'bout that, huh? So let's have a little respect where respect is due. 
And about those T-shirts .... You kids have been goin' hog wild printing every possible slur about me and our fine school, and I'm not going to take it any more! First of all, there's plenty of other words you could spell with the Miami "U" besides "scUm." How about "vUlgar" or "crUde" or better yet, "pitifUl"? And then there's that shirt that implies part of my anatomy is missing. Well, it's just not true! I lease with an option to own. 
Sincerely, Jimmy "Yes I do" Johnson 
CHRIS WELSH accent writer 
In this election year, voters are confronted with a choice between a passionless tech­nocrat and an heir to our na­tion's best cheerleader. This difference in leadership styles is also at the heart of the current Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre production of "Antigone." 
Adapted by Lewis Galan­tiere from Jean Anouilh's play, it focuses on the deci­sion of Antigone to disobey an edict issued by her uncle, King Creon, forbidding the burial of her brother, in order to consolidate power and sta­bilize his troubled kingdom of Thebes. Antigone, however cannot abide by her uncle's command, and is motivated by her conscience to give her brother the proper religious burial he deserves. This leads to the central conflict of the play, as Creon persuades An­tigone to abandon her moral crusade, and obey his order. If she refuses, he will be forced to kill her for state reasons. 
The exciting debate that follows between these two main characters contrasts two opposing views concern­ing governing a nation. Creon argues that a king should lead a nation with his mind, and to the letter of the law. Antigone insists that every­one, especially a leader, should follow his heart and be true to the emotions in it. 

The acting by the cast was both professional and sincere, evoking emotions and spark­ing contemplation of the themes previously discussed. The lead performance as given by Kristen Schumacher was especially effective in conveying the conviction of her character, as well as the beauty of her fate. Mark J. Costanzi' s Creon exuded a nobility and assurance which was appropriate, emotionally charged, but not overdone. 
The supporting characters are all portrayed with equally effective drive and intensity. Siiri Scott's one-woman Greek Chorus calls for special atten­tion as her portrayal ranks as one of the most memorable narration performances I have seen. Also worthy of recognition are Bridget McCarthy's Nurse, who receives my "Neil Simon Jewish Mother" award for her wonderful comic relief; 

WVFI 
AM 64 
Sept. 26 -Oct. 3 

1. U2 "Desire" 
2. 
SMITHS "Rank" 

3. 
SIOUXSIE AND THE BAN­SHEES "Peep Show" 

4. 
MARRIED TO THE MOB SOUNDTRACK 

5. 
THE PRIMITIVES "Lovely" 

6. 
THE FEELIES "Only Life" 

7. 
THE DREAM SYNDICATE "Ghost Stories" 

8. 
THE PIXIES "GigantiCIRiver Euphrates" 

9. 
LET'S ACTIVE "Every Dog Has Its Day" 

10. 
JANE'S ADDICTION "Nothing's Shocking" 


Calvin and Hobbes 
r----------------, 
\1\ S\JS\E! G\JESS 'tll-lt>.T I{()! GO 'SIT ~ SClt--I'EO~E. 
1 BRO\JGI-\1 FOR l\.lN.CI-\. ELSE., OK.? l'O\J f>LWI\~'5 SA'( 
'{Q\JR LVtK\-1 IS 9::>1'-\Ellill'-\G 
RE'/Ol11t-.IG, M-ID 1 001-H 
WM~T \0 \-\EAR. IT! 

Gerald Welch's Haemon, who maintains the proper balance between handsome prince and good-natured boyfriend; Mi­chael Murphy's Private Jones who also dabbles successfully in a comic vein; and Emily Stoddart who steals the show as Creon's page, managing to follow the king without get­ting lost in his shadow. 
The staging and direction of the play were all quite natu­ral, managing to augment the actors' performances without interfering with the audi­ence's enjoyment of the dialogue. The costumer and set decorator should also be congratulated for construct­ing a visually appealling at­mosphere in which the actors can practice their craft. In fact, many commented that the costumes must have been borrowed from "Star Trek," which is perfect for a play that contains many anachronistic touches due to its many revisions since Sop­bode's original. 
On the whole, I must con­cur with Creon who at one point remarks, "It's hard to say yes, but it is the best an­swer." 
Bill Watterson 
IT's\'>\~
1-\MPH. I'M 

GLI\D T\-\i>.T 
11-11\T'S GROSS.' 
LOOK, A.
ONE. 01\i OVI 
OF 11-\E ~tAR 
T\1ER.t<\CS F\Jll. 
ar P\-\L£<:.1<'1!
'100 CAN. t!£ 
CIIJIL. 
·-· 
-
-

page 10 The Observer 
n.~Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center IICC8Pts classified adveftising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. The~ Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts clusifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Ail classifleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR NEED MIAMI GA'S Need 2 GAs (not student) for Miami. Call FOR SALE:2 STUD. TIX FOR AIR RIDERS WANTED BANQUET SERVERS AND BUS HELP. BIG BUCKSIII 284-5666. FORCE CALL 284-5160 
Anyone needing a ride to southern 
NO TIC THESE ARE ON-CALL POSITIONS CALL MATT AT (219) 484-9080 Fairfield Ct,AND THERE IS SOME WEEKEND 8AM-5PM,M-F Need Miami GA's or Students Call 284· N.Y. City, or anywhere along route 80NEED A HOTEL FOR THE MIAMITYPING AVAILABLE WORK INVOLVED. APPLY IN PERSON 4349 ealll. 
287-4082 AT THE UNIVERSITY CLUB ON NOTRE WEEKEND? I need tickets for the game. 
Will be leaving early Oct.16-0NE WAY 
DAME AVENUE. Lei's talk trade: your tix for my Friday 
ONLY! HELP ME!III 
and Saturday night reservations at the Call Matt at £3610 

Matt "Schmear· Gallagher lor VP WANTED PERSON TO SHARE A I NEED 2 AIAFOACE GA'S CALL hotel on £31 that rhymes with Test Tinns HOME, 20 MIN FROM NO CALL PAM DEBBIE x4980 and starts with a B. Call Matt at x3500 
PERSO 237-5457; 8-5 
or x3633. 

DO YOU LIKE~? 00 YOU LIKE N.D. CANDY If you came to last week's
NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE

fiEGGAE? !h u'll .l9ve MIRIAM "PITT' TIX. CALL RICK 4235 ONE-WAY BUS TRIP FROM LONG 15-Personalized Noire Dame, Green-White ANTI APARTHEID VIGIL 
i!AKEB"A & ilu ASEKEEA In con-GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL
LAND to N.D. on Oct.2L $40. Colleen Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check THANK YOU! cert SUNDAY, OCT. 9 a18pm In Stepan NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL DAVE 283-2291. to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 
CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE 

COME AGAIN AND BRING A FRIEND Center. 239-7442 & 239-4626" AT X1072 CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223-2440 
S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037" 213-741­EXT. 7772.
DisplayWrite 3 wordprocessing package 1338. FRI. 12:15 DOME STEPS WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE OVERSEAS JOBS. for IBM PC or compatible. Best offer. HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH Summer, Kelly or Barry 239-5755 days. TIX NEEDED MIAMI STUDS & RICE Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher MAKE OUR VOICE TWICE AS LOUD 
MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Aala. 
GA'S. WITHOUT TIX WE HAVE NO 

at 8pm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghteee­FOR SALE ONE MIAMI STUD TICKET FAMILY OR FRIENDS. x1972. 
to $101 239-7442 & 284·4626 lng.Free Info. PO Bx 52­
Write IJC, Best Offer Call Chris 1052 DO YOU LIKE JAZZ? DO YOU LIKE HELP!-NEED RIDE TO UNIV. OF TENN. IN04, Corona Del Mer,CA 92825. 
NEED 4 USC TIX FOR 'BOOGERI' -REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM FOR BREAK! CALL CARL (4073) IF TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books CARL 4073 MAEKBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­YOU DRIVE NEAR. $$. 
lor ALL clasaes still available! UN­cert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan 
BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's F5RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO 
HELP! Need Air Force GA's. Call Jim at Center. 239-7442 & 284-4626. Dear Mmmm, Mahal Kita. Love, Me. 
Booka, 808 Howard St., just ofl of NO F5WEEKEND OF 10-7 TO 1Q-9 TICKE 
2351. 

Ave. 233-2342. F5CALL NANCY AT 2141 WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIA 
NEED GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­I need Miami Tix 271-8311 HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH
--" 
You liked them on Paul Simon's If you are selling Notre Dame-Bud, Cath­
BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272.0058. MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 
Graceland World Tour; You'll love them NEED AIDE TO ST. PAUL, MN. WILL $$$$$ at 8pm In Stepan Center lor ONLY $4 olic vs. Convicts, or any other T -shirts, in person! Miriam Makeba & Hugh PAY. CALL LORA 1282. FOR OCT. MIAMIMIAMIMIAMI to $101 239-7442 & 284-4626 call John at 2089. I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME
Masekela In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 BREAK. We have 3 Miami student tickets to­
at 8pm In Stepan Centar. 239-7 442 & GAMES.272-6306 gether. Will sell alllogether or separately" liked on Paul
You them Simon's 284-4626 WANT EITHER A AIDE OR RIDERS TO Avoid the rush: call with your best offer. Paul Charles-­
Graceland World Tour; You'll love them 
PITT FOR THE WEEKEND OF 10'8. X3481, ask for Pat, Bri or Gary" The past four years have been the best
desparely need 2 gas for miami (upset) in person! Miriam Makeba & Hugh YOU HAVE BETTER THINGS TO DOl WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL game 2723491 of my life! Thank you for loving me and 
Masekela In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9
Send your package via UPS a1 AARON AT 337R HELPII DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI always being my very best friend. I'm THE COUNTRY HARVESTER GAS. CALL DEBBIE X2687 looking forard to seeing you! Happy 4th
at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7 442 & NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SI!I $IS NO 284-4626
located lor your convenience In the PROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 277-Anniversary! I love you! ~-Gina Marie
·····························································:·· 

baaement of RIDE OFFERED TO PITTSBURGH EX­3997. I NEED 5 RICE GA'S· KAIS x2804 MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND
THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER ITS. NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S; 2 RICE 
FINALE -MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH
LEAVE FRIDAY, OCT. 7 AT 2:00. Need 2 Miami G.As will pay $$ or trade GA'S.CALL ANN 284-5344
2 Miami GA's 4 sale-best offer­MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct.

OPEN MON-FRI 12:~:30 RETURN SUN. OCT. 9 AT NIGHT. Grag(904)492-1404 2 PENN STATE GAs or 2 45-yard line 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442
(Not an agent of UPS). CALL JIM 1935. AIR FORCE GAs Call John £1805 CHICAGO BUS TRIP -'Windy City
& 284-4626 Shuttle' sponsored by the Student Activ­
DESPERATL Y need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NEEDED: RIDE FROM ST. LOUIS TO NEED 2 MIAMI GA's CALL JOE 2054 ities Office, will run this Saturday, Octo­
287-5451, KEN. 

Sammy the Sand Brethen has h1s Stan­
MRS. COKER 233-7009. NO ber 8" The bus will leave the Main Circle Oct. 23 pm at 9:45am and return at 10pm. Tickets
ford TX but Drew needs two Miami GAs. NEED PENN ST. TKTS.(ST OR GA) 
I NEED A MIAMI & AN AIR FORCE GA 288-6207 have BIG $$$$
in exchange for are available at the Information Desk, 1st 
WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER for my Pa.

THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE RIDE TO STL OCT. 16 floor LaFortune for $10. Next Shuttfe will 
HOME GAME ST TKTS. CALL JOE 277­

Pa is coming !rom Maui and has $120. SMC FALL FEST OCT 6
BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, Kathy x3781 run Saturday, October 29.
0725 Call Chris at 1355OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. 4:30-6:15 PIC­BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. 

HELP!! I Still need PENN GAs. Please 

NEED 4 P. ST. GA'S NIC FOR ALL (NO GET COXE'S IN call Nancy 4434 
WILL PAY TOP$$ X3201 DINING HALLS) 7 AND 9 SHE'S FAC FAC FACCALL DOLORES FOR YOUR HAVING A BABY CARROLL AUD" $1 Attention all loyal FAC membersTYPINGWORDPROCESSING WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE 4 MIAMI STU. TIX AVAILABLE. BRIAN ADMISSION 9-1 FALL FEST GARDENS The FAC will NOT be meeting this237-1949 FOR S HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH 
289-8020 $1 ADMISSION, 50c. BEVERAGE (21 Friday!II MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 1.0.)
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25' 
at 8pm In Stepan Center for ONLY $4 SELLING STUD AIR FORCE AND RICE COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS 
to $1011 239-7442 & 284-4626 

TIX, CALL CHRISTINE "4814 SMC FALL FEST OCT. 6 Need ride to Miami ol Ohio this Fri 1Ql7TAX, OR A 19' FOR ONLY $70.00 PLUS call Jack 3451 TAX. FREE SERVICE FOR FAST FREE FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI, 1 A.F. & 1 RICE SENIORS; DONT MISS THIS OPPOR­LOST& DELIVERY. CALL COLLEGIATE REN­FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE st. tickets. Call 3061 'till 10<6. TUNITY TO MEET SOME NEW THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUETALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 
STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL PEOPLE. SIGN UP TODAY AT THE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, ••• HELP ••• I LOST A BROWN GLASS 
MARY AT I HAVE MIAMI G.A.'SI YOU NEED CSC FOR SENIOR REFLECTION OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN CASE AT THE PURDUE GAME (WITH MACINTOSH 512K FOR SALE THEM! CALL JOE NOW AT 2008 AND GROUPS" BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12.
MY GLASSES IN THEM). IF YOU HAVE WITH FANNY MAC AND ALL MY 
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 MAKE AN OFFER!!

SEEN THEM, OR EVEN THINK YOU SOFTWARE FOR $800 OBO. Nick 
PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288-Becky Gigliotti is 19 today! Happy MIKE AND DAN OF POP. DYNAMICS
MIGHT HAVE, PLEASE PLEASE £1423 
0968 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. Birthday from your youlhful roommate! Here's the ad you wanted. Beat Pitt!
PLEASE, LET ME KNOW. CALL SEAN 

I NEED 2 AIAFOACE GA'SI CALL 271-Liz
190!t TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS 
NEED MIAMI TIX 0278! THANKS! SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. THE MULTI­FOR SALE 
2 GA-3 Stud SOCIAL EVENTPLEASEHELPMEFINDMY PRE-STRUNG FOR $80 EACH! NICK call 272-3767 Miami St Tick FOR SALE. Chris 3373
SUED EJ AC K ET I HOPEFULLY £1423 CHRIS ZORICH AND KENT GRAHAM 
SMC Fall Fest Reminders: IF it rains the 
PICKED UP WHILE CLEANING AT THE Good luck on Set. We're all behind 
NEED ONE STUD TICKET for MIAMI! picnic will be canceled BUT She's Having 
FARLEY BARN DANCE FRIDAY NIGHT you. BEAT PITT! Your friend In LyonsI NEED 2 MIAMI GA'Sf Will trade 1 Air A Baby will still be shown at 7&9 AND
DANIEL BOONE STYLE, TAN WITH Round Trip Ohare-Albuquerque Oct. 14­Please call KIM x4420
Force St Tckt e $" Price negotiable. Any The Gardens will still take place 9-1. Get 
LONG FRINGES AND FIFTY, YES 19. Kathy x4821 HELP!! need a ride lo Pittsburgh on Oct. FIFTY BUCKS IF YOU CAN TELL ME 15 ASAP following the Miami game" Will
reasonable offer accepted. Please call lo The Gardens early bt !here is a 500 
HELP!

Jim X3681 person limit.(21 ID required)
ANYTHING ABOUT IT AT All! CALL AIRLINE TICKET: one-way S.B. to share expenses. Mike x4141
I have $90 and am DESPARATEL Y in JEN AT X4236 OR 403 FARLEY. I WILL Newark via Chicago,leaving HYI4 at 
need of two MIAMI GA's.

NEED 2 AIAFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY SMC SENIOR CLASS IS HAVING A
DIE A HAPPY WOMAN. REMEMBER, 4:39pm. Female only. Asking $45. Call I NEE ED 2 PENN ST. GA's NOWII WILL
Call JIM at x1010 FIFTY BUCKS Ill! Karin at 2899. 
$$$$. CALL CAROLE 3296. BABY OCT 4&5, 9pm& 11 pm Carroll Aud 
PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL $1 OCT 6,7&9pm same place. 
JASON AT x4141. Lost: ND class ring, gold with !!reen JVC CD PLAVER--A FEW MONTHS 
TORCH needs two tickets for the Miami stone. Reward offered. Call Dean 277-OLD, PAOGAAMMABLE,CALL X3824 
HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 

game or he will die. Call CHRIS at 3322 4673. AND LEAVE MESSAGE IF INTER­
Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much 

GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE MISTAKE £1: TWENTY BEERS WHILE $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete DAME-ST. MARY'S COLLEGE 
and keep the FLAME alive. ESTED 
TAILGATING. MISTAKE £2: 6 SHOTS a! 287-5871. P.O. Box 194 
OF JD. MISTAKE £3: I LOST MY !.D. IF
I want MIAMI Studs-Kate X 3874 JVC QUARTZ LOCK TUNER 35 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 YOU SPOTTED MY MICHIGAN NEED MIAMI GA'S. 1063. 
LICENSE EITHER AROUND ALUMNI OR DEMAUDE STREET AND ARE A 
LOST! Sometime on Saturday, Green WATTS, A FEW MONTHS OLD, AS­I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUD. OR GA. 
Field? A green emerald, floating heart KING $200 CALL X 3824 CALL MIKE 1882.
NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS Rochester, NY-Riders needed-Beat !he NICE PERSON, YOU'LL CALLnecklace 
Lots ol sentimental valuellll II found, JVC CASSETTE DECK DOLBY B,C. 
PREFERRABL Y GA'S bus Call ANDY 2290 SOON.4337 ASK FOR ROBYN OR JO. CAROLINE 283-3144 OR 
NEED 3 AF GA'S. REBECCA 4953. please call Kate at 277-9809. GREAT FREQUENCY RESPONSE, REWARD! 
CARLOS 289-8417

$$$ Reward $$$$ BRAND NEW ASKING $155. CALL X NEED 3 TICKETS TOGETHER FOR 
JUNIORS MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 219­
3824 DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF­
JUNIORS FALO FOR OCTOBER BREAK. WILL
482-8989. LOST: Casio f(x) 100 calculator between YAMAHA EQUAUZER--10 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE CLASS BOXERS ARE HERE!! 
SHARE EXPENSES. CALL JEN 284­student ticket--BEST OFFER--call Mary $6
Keenan Hall and Lafortune on Friday, BANOCHANNEL..GREAT DEAL AT 5055 OR 5056.
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI-NO September 2. NO JACKET. Chris 3373. $150 CALL X3824 
at £2286 YOU CAN PURCHASE ONE AT THE 
GAME WILL PAY TOP$. CALL 305­

CLASS OFRCE(2ND FLOOR LAFOR­981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE
I need 2-4 Gas for Air Force and Pitt call TUNE) EVERY AFTERNOON AFTER
STOLEN: Braun Electric Razor from BANG & OLUFSEN---B&O BOOK· JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS WE
2281 2PM OR WITH YOUR DORM REP GET 
Campusview at a Friday night 2-7. I know SHELF SPEAKERS. GREAT FOR STILL REMEMBER YOU AS A GEEKY
FOR SALE-ONE MIAMI STUDENT BEHIND THE CLASS OF 1990!1

how people are after a long night of drink­DORM SYSTEM ASKING $300 WILL FRESHMAN" CHANGE THAT IMAGE
TICKET BEST OFFER. CALL SOON! ing.Piease return. Call: Ed 277-0530 TALK. CALL X 3824 GET YOUR DOGBOOK PICTURE UP­Ten Cenadlan hoaehaads are coming 
BRIDGET 284-5014" Thanks DATED TUES. AND WED. OCT. 11&12down lor the MIAMI game, and they're 
bringing Ice cold Canadian beer and

CONVERTIBLE HAPPY B-DAY AMY RAZZ! HAVE A FROM 7-11 PM. IN THE BASEMENT OF 
HELP! NEED TWO MIAMI G.A.'S CALL LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH ON STEP­Clasalc 1967 Mercury Monterey. Ex. GREAT DAY! LUV YOUR PW BUDDIES LAFORTUNE AND THURS. FROM 4:30a bunch of Iunny looking money wllh 
JEN 284-5055 OR 5056. HAN FIELDS · CALL BAET 1369 OR cond. $1 ,400. Call 277-3014 anytime. TO 8:30. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS them. They'"' offering both beer and 
cash lor GAa. Good deal, eh?

1376 FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI AND 1 AIR FORCE 
NEED 3 STUD. TIX FOR MIAMI. CALL Round trip ticket from SB to Newark 1 !YI3 STUD. TIX $$TALKS. STEVE X 1424.
Call Marty 811471 
JEFF AT 2153. 

SMC JUNIORS DONT FORGET TO LOST: Gold Hoop Earring!! Call 284· -1G23 call John 2n-2454 GET YOUR DOGBOOK PICTURES 
5171 if found. PLEASE HELP ME FIND NEED AIDE TO U OF I (URBANA) FOR 
Student Tickets lor Sale 2 MIAMI GAS FOR SALE CALL 415-TAKEN MON. OCT.10 FROM 4:30 TO 
MY EARRINGIIII For Sale-1976 Mercury Marquis 4-door, FALL BREAK ANGIE £1260
769-1248 BETWEEN 9AM-5PM 8:30 LAMANS HALLf!.C, new tires, cassette, runs well, $300, PACIFIC TIME 

call 284-4516 or 284-4545. NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE,ITHACA
Two Miami Tickets My GRANDFATHER WENT OVER­
OR ROCHESTER FOR BREAK.CALL
SOMEBODY MUST HAVE 2 PENN APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­

and BOARD AGAIN ... I HAVE 4 RICE GA'S.
AL YSSA-2732 
STATE GA'S-PLEASE MIKE X1628 FOR A cluding keyboard, green-screen monrtor, 
disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­DESPEAATEL Y NEED TWO GA TIX 
Three Air Force Tickets $NEGOTIABLE. CALL KATRINA X4678. 
KIMMY-HAPPY 10 MONTHS AND 24
do your parents need a place to stay for pleworks word processor, blank data dis­TOGETHER FOR PENN STATE CALL 
Call Will at 283-2089 and make your 10 MIAMI TIX FOR SALE! DAYS!! I LOVE YOU, TOO--YOUR EX­
football weekends? try the "irish bed & ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283-1395
REASONABLE PRICES. breakfasr--located 2 miles from n.d. for 3481. 
BEST OFFER! TREMELY SCHEDULED BOYFRIEND. 
CALL JOE AT 239-7303 SO WHAT? ... 

info. ring 272-7738 BRIAN G. STAR 24-pin printer, like new, must sell, CALL YOUR MOTHER!
1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET for sale,BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-259-7085. LOVE,
HELP! NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 277-1513 

besl offer by 1Ql7 at 6pm. HAPPY BIRTHDAY TEENIE·WEENIE
291-7153. MOM
Call Karin at 2899.

WE NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD" AND JASON MITCHELLWE LOVE82 Kawasaki 750, many new parts, TICKETS! CALL MIKE AT X1380 OR JIM YOU.-THE SIX-MAN.
20000 mi, $1100, 259-7085. 

HELP! I need a ride this weekend to FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDROOM I need 8 PENN GA or two sets of 4 Life either Indy or Bloomington, IN could AT X1382. 
Looking for 4 Penn State GA's -good $
HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.272.Q06 or Death MEGABUCKS offerred call Tim leave on Thurs. 10<6 or Fri. 1()17 and call Connell 232-6233 
2 MIAMI GA'a 4 sale by SAT 10'8 Noon. 

X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300 return Sunday. If you can help me please DUKAKI5-BENTSEN '86 call Karen al x1272. There will be no meeling tonight. 
x3786 12-2 pm or 6-8 pm 

Air Farce stud for sale:3111 
Miami stud ticket for sale x4565 best offer There will be a very important meeting a Dave x1612. 
I Need Penn State GA's, 2 or 4. Call 

by 10<6 week from today.
PLEASE SELL MIKE WADE YOURHave 2 Miami Stud tix lor sale. Still in 
Desperate need of 2 Penn State GAs. 
WANTE MIAMI GA TICKETS. 

I have 1 Miami slud & 2 Air Force GA's. musl sell plane ticket !rom mishawaka
I NEED 3 PENN STATE TIX PLEASE HIS PARENTS ARE MAD ENOUGHPlease call heather at 277-3268 after 5
ATTENTION FOOD FANATICS Call x4858 Besl offer by 8 PM international to newark! flighl leaves p.m" 
CALL X2984 THAT HIS SISTER ACCIDENTLY TOOK friday october 141 70$ or best offer call HIS CAR KEYS BACK TO NEW JERSEY 

IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION I need 1 Miami, will buy or trade stu. tic. brian 3574 
YES EVERYBODY, ITS CHRISTMAS. I WITH HER LAST WEEK. NOTHING
2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR

PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOUI for any other home game. Call John 277­
HAVE 4 MIAMI G.A.s!!! MUST SELL BY ELSE GOES RIGHT FOR HIM EITHER. MONDAY 1 !Y1 0. CALL ERIC x3883 -or­
-SALE 272-6863 
5364. Rachel Crossen, Are you mad al me? II
HELP HIM...287-9870 
PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND so, maybe I can explain. Dave from En­
ALEX ii1747.
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S DESPERATELY

RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECEs­NEED 3 MIAMI GAs. Call JJ at 1661 glish
CALL ED AT 288-6207SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST 
Need 2 PENN STATE Tix Will pay$ or NEEDED: Dealers for Senior Fa­REQUIRED!) Air Force sludent tix for sale. Call x1560" 
trade other GA's Saan x1352 the.Oaughter Weekend Casino NightSELL OR TAADE(FOR MIAMI STUD)-3 Oct.8 You musl be 21 years of age. If CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272· AF, 3 RICE, 1 PS STUD.GUIDO 258­
Need A1ce GA 's and Penn Slate Ga 's NEED 3 GA'S FOR PENN STATE!!! Will 

interested call Connie af SMC Student 
see ClASS, page 11
1922. 5918 
Abe x1352 pey $$$$$"Please call MG at 284 5112" Activites -284-4562 for details. 
Thursday, October 6, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
•

SMC VB WinS 
By LIZ VANDERSARL Sports Writer 
Recovering from a brief slump, the Saint Mary's Belles got back on the win­ning track Tuesday night with a win over Grace Col­lege. 
''The last three weeks have been difficult with several injuries, so this win was a rebound for us," said Head Coach Sue Medley. 
The Belles were strong throughout the match, dominating the first game 15-4. The second game proved to be a struggle with Grace College getting the edge 17-15. With consistent serving, the Belles were able to display their superiority, winning the final games 15-1 and 15-1. 
"Serving has always been a problem for us, but we im­proved a great deal in the match. Key players through­out the match were Katie Killilla and Melissa Phillips, who both played extremely well," said Medley. 
Saturday at 1:00 p.m., the Belles take on Tri-State in a league match. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 

SIEGFRIED HALL PRESEnTS: 
':fat~~~ o.tttt;H~ted 
Join us on Oct. 8 ND vs. Pitt on Big Screen TV Half-time cookout celebrate Mass with Fr. "Monk" Malloy 
~~\ ~~\ 
oo~~ ~ 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 
No more S-E-X in South Bend because Sly flies to London! We'll miss our sixth roomie, but that's no reason to be downtrodden. We'll all be together in Fall of '891 Love--your wanton libidinous trollops in disguise. 
P.S. Who are we going to have to take pictures of? 
BELLSKt & BURKE The deadline is almost here !IIIII Good luck I know we'll make Ill Otherwise??? Celebration friday Noonl We are going to "rage" in D.C. I CAN'T HARDLY WAITt The official countdown starts Sat. One month to be FREAKS!!! I love you guys, Reidy 
2 LONELY BLOND ITALIAN WOMEN DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO D.C. AREA FOR OCTOBER BREAK. DON'T LEAVE US BE­HINDI CALL LISA 284-4346 
Did Pat Costello really have fun at his last 2 SYR's?l Congratulations Pat, it looks like your "date from hell" days are over. 
I need a ride to Hillsdale College or Albion College or anywhere in that area this weekend. Will pay$$$. Call Jeni 284-4430. 
HEY ALL YOU DUDES AND DUDETIESII Looking for that ultimate dating experience?? Call Brigid Brennan or Megan Gilligan at 284-5015. They'll set you up with the parfect matel The love line is here II 
MARKETING CLUB Important Meeting TONITEI 6:30PM 220 Hayes Healy New Members Welcome! Any ??? Call Susan x4266 
FUNK IT UPI FUNK IT UPI FUNK IT UPI FUNK IT UPI 
ROBERT SEDLACK THESE SUGAR WALLS AWAIT YOUR COMING !II 
MIKE CONWAY MIKE CONWAY YOU CRAZY STUD, YOUIIIII 
..................... 
From the Home Office in The Commons, Indiana .... TOP TEN QUOTES FROM GRETCHEN ETZEL'S 21stl 
10. Mr. Paradise 
9. "I wanna see someone get turned awayl" 
B. "Bubblegumll" 
7. A.A. Demeanor 
6. "Now, you be Sr. Jo." 
5. "Check for wires ... you might never have children again." 
4. "I've had about enough of thisl" 
3. "Oh my gosh, Susan, Liz, Kristen and Karen's fish are deadl" 
2. "Wait just a second, I have to stop the world." And the Number 1 Quote from the Big Night... 
1. "Mont Blancl Yes I He is the man I desirell" 


Something worth studying. 
j0  
Atlanta  Kansas City  Philadelphia  
Bloomington/Normal  Las Vegas  Phoenix  
Boston  Madison  Pittsburgh  
Champaign/Urbana  Memphis  Rockford, IL  
Chicago (Midway)  Miami  St. Croix  
Cleveland  Milwaukee  Sl Petersburg (Ell.12117/88)  '  
Columbus  MplsJSt. Paul  StThomas  
Dallas/Ft. Worth  Moline  Sarasota  
Denver  Nassau  Springfield, IL  
Des Moines  New Orleans  Tampa  
Dubuque  New York (La Guardia)  Traverse City  
Fl Lauderdale  Omaha  Washington, DC (National)  
Ft. Myers  Orlando  Waterloo  
Green Bay  Oshkosh (Elf.10130/88)  West Palm Beach  
Jacksonville  Peoria  

Physics equations and Freudian principles are nice, but if you really want to get somewhere, call Midway Airlines~ 
Midway can take you home or on vacation on an inexpensive and convenient flight. Just hop the Midway Connection® to Chicago Midway Airport and connect to over 50 U.S. cities, plus the Bahamas and Virgin Islands. 
So study the above information. Then call Midway at 1-800-621-5700, or call a travel agent. 
DUKAKI5-BENTSEN '88 There will be no meeting tonight. 

There will be a very important meeting a week from today. 
must sell plane ticket from mishawaka international to newark! flight leaves friday october 141 70$ or best offer call brian 357 4 
Rachel Crossen, Are you mad at me? If so, maybe I can explain. Dave from English 
I, Motherhen, hereby retract all statements made by my self against "Garve". It won't happen again 
To the English major who loves Latin In my 2:45 Tih Theo 100 course Hi I Wao:-,g anxiously with baited breath 'til Thursday for your ~rticle. The Bio-French major who hates to write. P.S. What's your by-line? 
MODEL UNITED NATIONS CLUB will be having Ita first elmulallon on Sunday, Oct. 9 lrom 2-5 
p.m. In 124 Hayes-Healy. Topics will be chemical weapons use, third world debt, nuclear lree zonea, and anything you come up with. Bring reaolullona and s lrlendl If you need help with reaolutlona, atop by 413 Cavanaugh In the eve­ning. 
FOR SALE ONE-WAY TRIP FROM LONG ISLAND on Oct 21. $40. Colleen 283-2291. 
TRUE--DON'T BE BLUE. I'LL BE THERE.--ONE 

JOHNNY B, JANEY JANE, AND MACARDLE-­WE'VE ALL SEEN THE MOON, SO ... WHEN WILL THE SUN SHINE????? 
CONGRATS SYL FOR GETIING INTO LONDON I CRACK-MAN DOES EUROPE! 
RIDE OFFERED TO PITISBURGH EXITS. LEAVE FRI. OCT. 7, 2:00. RETURN SUN. OCT. 9, NIGHT. CALL JIM 1935. 
Dear Mark Chapman, Saw you tailgating again last weekend--you didn't notice me much but I still love you anyway. Look me up before I die. Love, Jamie. 
GREET THE TEAM! The football team will return from the Pitt game shortly after 10 p.m. Saturday night at the main circle. 
GOD-LIKE TONY, friend and savior of six drowning girls Saturday night... Don't think this is why we remembered you, but you have my umbrella! Please continue your heroic behavior and call Leslie at £4351. 
1 am looking for 4 GA's to any home loolball game. I have very little money but I would be willing to trade my services as a photographer in exchange. Any size black and white portraits available. If inter­ested call £3331. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
ELIZABETHII 

Love M 
ITAUAN CLUB SHIRTS SOLD OUT TO ORDER CALL: Vl1t11na x1833 

SENIORS! SENIORS! RUSH STREET IS WAITING I 
watch lor Vision watch lor VisiOn watch for Vision 

To the Boy1 who put In the Belinda Cartlele P.r­aonal... It 11 amazing how Intelligent you could eound with a new attitude and a wired Jaw. Follow the example of We NO Men by not taking out frustrations of your own In veobal slams against others ... 
................................................... 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 

LEAVING AFTER MIAMI GAME, RETURNING SUNDAY 1G23. CALL X4253 
L,T,K,M: 253 Farley BEWARE I Psych I 

JIM CORBETI: I still want your body. 
Pete Harleg is simply the best we have. 
Lets Go METS GO 

Thankl Mike and Mlchelfe lor your pallencet What a great etoryl 
127 daye until the St. Lout• Cardinale rwport to spring training to get their pennant beck. 
MARQUETIE WARRIORs-85 NO IRISH-65 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a hlesov•ng 
Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
.. 


~ : 
~\~v­
DU1D 

Don't drink and drive 
A one-day seminar designed to help you make the transition from student to professional. 
Saturday, November 5, 1988 
The cost of the seminar is $t 0, and hotel accommodations are available at a reduced rate. Sessions offered this year include: 
• 
Chemical Dependency in the Hospitalized Patient 

• 
Coping Measures for the Oncology Nurse 

• 
Financial Planning for the Young Professional 

• 
Intensive Care of the Transplant Patient 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 

• 
Job Seeking Skills 



CALL COLLECT 

• 
Nephrology 


• 
Nursing and Outpatient Surgery 507-286-7033 

• 
Transition: Survival Techniques For Registration, lnfonnation and Brochure 


Transition is sponsored by 

Rochester Methodist Hospital 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSf'll AI Learning Resources Department 
Deadline for registration
201 West Center Street 
is Oct. 24. 1988 
Rochester, MN 55902 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1988 
Holtz makes plea 
Dear Students: 

As you probably know, Notre Dame will play host to the University of Miami football team on October 15. I under­stand Miami coach Jimmy Johnson has been the recipient of several phone calls and letters from Notre Dame stu­dents regarding the upcoming football game. 
When I first came to Notre Dame, I was impressed with four things about the student body--its competitiveness, its intelligence, its intense desire to succeed and its close­ness and caring for other people. I would hope our students display those same traits when it comes to football rivalries. 
I'm the first one to appreciate the competitiveness and the intense desire of the Notre Dame students to succeed. I hope you appreciate those same traits in our football players on the field every week. 
Yet, it seems to me if we want to display our intelligence, we ought to show a great deal of respect to Miami, its players and coaches for the tremendous accomplishments they've had for the last two years. As you know, Miami has won 36 straight regular-season football games and 20 straight road games overall. That's an amazing record that few teams in college football history can match. 
It also seems that if our students wish to display their closeness as a student body and how much they care for their football team, the most valuable thing they can do is be as positive as possible in their support of this team. That should be the case not just this week against Pit­tsburgh, or next week when Miami comes to town--but every week of the season. 
We look forward to welcoming Miami's team and fans for our next home game. Let's make sure that the Hur­ricanes leave our campus impressed with the classiness of our program and fans. 
Best regards, 
Lou Holtz 

University Hair Stylists Lafortune Student Center 239-5144 

Now on Sale: 
, 
CREATIF Shaping Lotion Regularly $6.50 Sale Price $5.50 
OFFER GOOD THROUOfl OCT. .31st 

117 Bouquet Street Right on Pitt Campus 
* J:J.
ND Pep Rally·FRIDAY NIGB7 atiO:OO PM 
C©ms !Bsf©~s &Afts~ tlhs Gatms 
If You Don~t *Have A Ticket. 

See The Game Herel 
Heisler to head Sports Info 
staff as Valdiserri's assistant alma mater as sports informa­
Special to The Observer 

in April of 1978 and was tion director in 1966. He previ­
John Heisler, a member of promoted to associate sports ously had served as adminis­the Notre Dame sports infor­information director in July of trative assistant to Irish mation staff since 1978, has 1982. football coach Terry Brennan been named sports information A South Bend native, Heisler from the time he graduated in director at the University of spent one year as assistant 1954 until going to work for Notre Dame, athletic director sports information director at Mercedes-Benz of North Dick Rosenthal announced his alma mater, the University America in 1959. Wednesday. of Missouri, following his Long regarded as one of the 
Heisler takes over for Roger graduation from the Missouri pillars of the sports publicity Valdiserri, who has held that School of Journalism in Decem­field, Valdiserri served as post since 1966. Promoted to as­ber of 1976. CoSIDA president in 1986-87 sistant athletic director in 1976, He has edited 12 different and also received the organiza­Valdiserri now takes on ex­publications judged best in the tion's top individual award that panded _administrative level nation by the College Sports In­year when he was honored with responsibilities in his role as formation Directors of the Arch Ward Award--which associate athletic director, a America, including three foot­goes annually to a CoSIDA position he has held since 1983. ball media guides and four bas­member for his outstanding He will continue to oversee the ketball media guides. He also contributions within and out­department functions, which has edited the annual Notre side the profession. He include public relations, com­Dame football highlight film presently is a member of that munications, publications and and done color analysis on both organization's board of direc­information. radio and television for Irish tors and is chairman of the 
The 33-year-old Heisler basketball games. NCAA Communications Com­ioined the sports information V aldiserri returned to his mittee. 
LOVE, MOM&DAD 
WeJre Banking on your Career Success. 
We are Manufacturers National Corporation, a major Detroit-based regional bank holding company with assets of $9.1 billion. Our corporation provides a wide variety of financial services to customers worldwide through the corporation's banking and subsidiary offices. Representatives of Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit (our principal subsidiary) will be conducting campus interviews for career opportunities within the Metro Detroit area at the University of Notre Dame on Tuesday, November 1, 1988. They will seek individuals who have a Bachelors degree in a business related field. High academic achievement in accounting and finance is preferred. We offer a wide variety of exciting and challenging career opportunities for: 
• 
Cost & Financial Analysts in our Controllers Department 

• 
Corporate Trust Analysts in our Trust Department 

• 
Examiners in the Audit Department 


Formal training opportunities are also available for: 

• 
Credit Analysts in our Credit Department 

• 
Branch Management Trainees in our Retail Services Department 

• 
Programmer Trainees in the Systems Department 


Explore the career possibilities with us. Contact your placement office to arrange an on­campus interview. 

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
Thursday, October 6, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The novice boxing tournament will be held Monday at 4:30p.m. in the boxing gym at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for NVA Co-Ree basketball. Stop by the NVA office or call at x6100 for a great chance to earn $8 per game. -The Observer 
Officials are needed for Saint Mary's flag football and for the Saint Mary's 4-on-4 volleyball program. If interested, call Maureen Harty, assistant athletic director, at 284-5548. -The Observer 
Frank Jacobs, tight end for the Irish, will most likely play on Saturday. He has been suffering from a sprained arch. Offensive tackle Justin Hall is definitely out for the year after breaking his ankle in practice Sept. 28. -The Observer 
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and 
The Observer I Rob Aegovlch 

Mike Drury (sliding) and the Notre Dame men's playing on Its rain-soaked field and balked atInternational Affairs soccer team had an unexpected day off playing the scheduled game at Notre Dame. yesterday as Valparaiso decided against
Princeton University 
ND men's soccer 'rained out'
Graduate Education for 
Careers in Public Affairs By PETE GEGEN baseball field on the campus, gested playing at a nearby
International Relations 
Sports Writer and the Valparaiso athletic de­field, but Grace objected. 
Development Studies 
partment did not want to risk "The field is only 58 yards
Domestic Policy 
The Notre Dame men's soc­ruining the field. wide," he said, noting the
Ewnomics amf Public Policy 
cer team was supposed to play "Their athletic director did NCAA minimum is 65 yards. Presentation and question-and-answer session will be an afternoon match at Val­not want to play the game on "We played on that field my held with a Woodrow Wilson School representative. paraiso Wednesday afternoon. their field," said Irish coach first year here, and it was just 
As it turned out, they never Dennis Grace. "We tried to res­terrible. There is not enough
Date: Thursday, October 13, 1988 left the campus. chedule the game, but no open room for 11 players." Time: An early morning deluge at dates on our schedules Finally Grace offered to play
1~:00 a.m. and 1.00 p.m. 
Valparaiso led to the cancella­matched." the game at Krause Stadium. Place: tion of the soccer match. Ap­Before the game was can­Although the Crusaders would 
see Career Placement Office 
parently part of the Crusaders' celled two alternate solutions have only 50 miles to travel, soccer field is laid over the were offered. Valparaiso sug-they declined. 

NOTRE DAME WELCOMES 

MICHAEL P. ESPOSITO, JR., 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 

Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Mr. Esposito is hosting a presentation and reception on October 
12th at the University Club, Upper Lounge from 7 to 9 p.m. Mike 
warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty members 
who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in 
the Chase Corporate Controller Division. 
0 Chase Manhattan Bank 

page 14 

Baseball 
continued from page 16 

Cone in Game 2. Belcher, who won nine of his last 11 decisions to finish 12-6, had his only prob­lems against Keith Hernandez. The Mets first-baseman hit a two-run homer in the fourth and finished Belcher with a run-scoring single in the ninth. 
Belcher, who struck out a season-high 10 batters, allowed a leadoff double by Len Dykstra in the ninth. Dykstra went to third on a grounder, and scored on a single by Her­nandez. 
Belcher was replaced by former Met Jesse Orosco, who yielded a single to Darryl Strawberry that advanced Her-' nandez to second. 
That brought on Alejandro Pena, who got the save by get­ting Kevin McReynolds to foul out to third and, after walking Howard Johnson to load the bases, induced Gary Carter to fly out to right. 
Mike Marshall singled in runs in each of the first two in­Kevin McReynolds of the New York Mets nings off Cone and added a barrels Into Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Mike third hit to start a rally in the Scloscla with the game-winning run In the top fifth. of the ninth Inning of Game One of the National 
Thursday, October 6, 1988 
New application for basketball tix 
Special to The Observer 
Students wishing to purchase 
1988-89 basketball season tick­
ets must go through a new 
ticket application procedure 
before Oct. 14. 

Students must go to Gate 10 
of the Joyce ACC between 9 
a.m. and 5 p.m. to fill out an application for season tickets. At this time students will have to specify if they will want lower arena or bleacher seats, and must pay a deposit on the ticket. 
Ticket prices for 17 home 
games are $85 for lower arena 
seating and $68 for bleachers. 
A deposit of $45 for lower arena 
seats or $40 for bleachers is re­
quired during this application 
period. 

The ticket distribution will 
begin Oct. 31 with seniors. The 
balance of the ticket price is 
due at this time. 

The 1988-89 home basketball schedule includes games against Indiana, SMU, Syracuse, Temple, Duke, Houston, DePaul and Louis­ville. 
Spirit 
continued from page 16 

three complete Fisher stereo systems donated by Tyson Foods will be given away at the dance. WNDU's Jack Nolan will be the master of ceremonies for the evening. 
When midnight approaches, the attention will turn to the 
I I I ALUMNI -===== 
-SENIOR• 
~CLUB 
rfS 
JACC arena. The Irish basket­ball video "Notre Dame Bas­ketball's Greatest Hits" will be shown on a big screen in the arena at 11:50 p.m. 
At midnight, the men's team will hold a scrimmage to offi­cially begin its practice ses­sions. Coca-Cola will give away free 18x24 full-color schedule posters to everyone attending the practice. The halftime show will feature the presenta­
You've always been a winner, now you're with 
a whole campus of winners 
Love, Mom, Dad, Jeff, Candi, Mark & Carrie 

A~gD.····ffOP8t(FRI& ti1T 9-2.·0011# 
BEA7 Pl77!! 
tion of Maxwell House Spirit of •--------------------.

Notre Dame awards to a former and a current ND ath­lete. 
At 10:30 Saturday morning, the women's basketball team will have its opening scrim­mage in the JACC Arena. The day's activities also will fea­ture a Notre Dame-Bowling Green women's soccer game at Krause Stadium, and finally, the Notre Dame-Miami foot­ball game. 

GRADUATE STUDY 
•

In AEROSPACE ENGINEERING at GEORGIA TECH 
Major areas of study and research: 
Aerodynamics Aeroelasticity Combustion Computational Fluid Dynamics Computer-Aided Design Flight Mechanics & Controls Propulsion Rotary Wing Technology Structural Dynamics Structures-Composites 
Write or call: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-6046 
99C ea. 
(<;y;· SS) Other sizes: $1.19 (SY•" DS) $179 ()y~ S~l $2.29 0:1;· OS) 
18187 state Road 23 
kinko•s· 
271
--msg the copy center 

-~­


Thursday, October 6, 1988 
CAMPUS 
11 :30 a.m. Hospitality Lunch at the CSC, $3. 
Noon French Club and American Lebonese Club present Culture on the Quad, Fieldhouse Mall. 
3 p.m. SMC Tennis vs. St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, SMC Tennis Courts. 
4:30 p.m. MEC presents Hawaiian Dancers in the Ethnic Entertainment series, Fieldhouse Mall. 
.DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Pot Roast FALL FEST Baked Sole BUFFET Mushroom Stoganoff Bratwurst Devonshire Sandwich Hamburgers 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Jerks 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Out of control 26 A bee of sorts
I Billiard stroke 30 Lagniappe6 Track event 34 Similar: Prefix 10 "Pay 35 Capp creatureattention!" 
36 Knot up14 Two of Henry 
VIII's six 37 Light up 15 "Come­
39 Govt. my parlor" economist's concern
16 Hyalite 41 Mongolian17 Ermine in wastelandsummer 42 Frenzy18 Yannick of 
tennis 44 City on the Dnepr
19 Lowest pinochle card 47 Tend 
20 Minn. site of 48 Revise !arge open-pit 49 Summons of a Iron mme sort 
22 Suitcases 51 Personality 24 Grasping influencer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



53 An officer and a gentleman? 54 Mason's creator 57 Andrew and Edward 61 "The-Love ..." 62 Squash 64 Worship 65 Joyride 66 "-neighborand weigh" 67 Composer Ethelbert 68 Suspend 69 Director Fritz 70 Tendency 
DOWN 
1 Hot Lips starred in this 1Vhit 
2 Opposed 3 One lacking noblesse oblige 
21 Shade of
4 Tar's gear 
green
holder 
23 Oodles
5 Appropriate to 
26 Greek letter 
summer 
27 Followers of 
6 Talk tediously Mohammed 7 Up: Prefix 28 Not a soul 8 P.O.W. camp 29 --Pooof 

"The Mikado" 
9 Boring 
31 Ruth's
10 Crown colony 

mother-in-Jaw 
11 Samoan port 

32 Name of eight12 Jingled popes 13 Swiss painter 33 Hurl 


Berke Breathed The Far Side 
Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 

38 Blowout 52 Tibetan 40 Popular game 
neighbor 

43 Middle East 54 Kin of gee gulf 55 Newspaper 45 "The org. Hungarian 
56 Check 

Rome" 58 Inlet46 Something 59 St. Patrick's different land49 Singer Brewer 60 Dispatch
50 One who might gain 63 Wrestler's interest objective 
Gary Larson 



-------·-------­
-

I t I 
~ 
I ~ 
Sports

page 16 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1988 
Pre-Miami hoopla set for Spirit Week 
Special to The Observer 

acting dean of the College of The 1:30 p.m. kickoff to the Arts and Letters. 
Notre Dame-Miami football While Monday is called 
clash at Notre Dame Stadium "Academic Day," Tuesday will be "Spiritual Day," spon­
INSIDE sored by the Notre Dame chap­ter of the Fellowship of Chris­
Holtz addresses 
tian Athletes. Notre Dame's 

letter to students ........ page 12 women's soccer team will play Northwestern at 7 p.m. at Krause Stadium. on Oct. 15 will climax an entire The dining halls will get into week of events designed to en­the act on Wednesday's "Whole courage spirit and sportsman­Health Day," which will in­ship. clude special meals along with Billed as Notre Dame Spirit videos, posters and brochures Week, the University's athletic at the dining halls to emphasize department has arranged ac­the proper diet and nutrition. tivities that will promote the Most of the athletic events athleticlacademic connection begin on Thursday's "Athletic at Notre Dame. Special events Day." A seminar called "CBS include two seminars, two Sports on Campus" at 3 p.m. Notre Dame-Miami baseball in the library auditorium will feature color analyst Pat Haden, CBS Emmy-winning producer Mike Burks and CBS manager of program services and Notre Dame grad Teresa Ross. The Irish baseball team also will face perennial national power Miami at 7 p.m. in Stan­ley Coveleski Stadium. Tickets 
Dave Stewart of the Oakland A's pitched a
cost $3 for adults and $2 for stu­
strong game yesterday as the A's took Game
dents, who can get in free with 
One of the American League Championship 
their Blue-Gold Card. The Irish soccer team will play DePaul at Krause Stadium at 7 p.m. 

Henderson's hit lifts A's 3-2
Friday's "Roll-Out Day" will 
Digger Phelps 
roll out a chain of events to get 

Dodgers even series with Mets, win 6-3 behind Belcher 
games and a special midnight the community psyched for practice by the Irish basketball Saturday's football game. An Associated Press grounded the next pitch into 1-3 innings and the Dodgers team. all-campus picnic will begin at right field for the go-ahead chased pitcher-reporter David 
Monday's main event is the 4 p.m. on the Stepan fields, fol­BOSTON--Dave Henderson, single. Cone with five runs in the first presentation, "Can a Univer­lowed by the pep rally at 7 p.m. a former Boston postseason Oakland's bullpen, which two innings as Los Angeles beat sity Excel in Academics and on Stepan Courts. Olympic hero, singled home the tie­held Boston to three runs in 35 the New York Mets 6-3 Wednes­
Athletics?" Scheduled for 7:30 speed skater Dan Jansen will breaking run in the eighth in­innings this year, did the job day night to even the National 
p.m. at the Hesburgh Library be a guest speaker at the pep ning and the Oakland Athletics again and preserved the lead. League playoffs at a game Auditorium, the discussion will rally. beat the Red Sox 2-1 Wednes­Rick Honeycutt relieved apiece. feature Irish basketball coach A United Limo bus shuttle day in the first game of the Stewart with the bases loaded In an article written for the Digger Phelps and former service will take people from American League playoffs. and one out in the seventh and New York Daily News, Cone Notre Dame basketball captain the pep rally to the ND-Miami Jose Canseco's home run had kept Boggs to a sacrifice fly. said Los Angeles reliever Jay Tracy Jackson, who currently baseball game, which starts at held up since the fourth inning In the second, Boggs--a .373 Howell looked "like a high is an investment broker for a 8 p.m. at Coveleski Stadium. as Oakland's Dave Stewart and career hitter with the bases school pitcher" in the ninth in­Washington, D.C., area firm From 9 p.m. to midnight, a Bruce Hurst hooked up in a loaded--struck out in the same ning of Game 1 when the Mets and a member of the Univer­student dance, sponsored by pitching duel. But Wade Boggs situation, the first time he had scored three times for a 3-2 vic­sity's Board of Trustees. 7UP and featuring campus hit a sacrifice fly in the fanned in 22 lifetime at-bats tory. Cone also said Dodgers 
Notre Dame philosophy pro­band The Groove, will be held seventh, setting up Hender­against Stewart. starter Orel Hershiser was fessor Thomas Morris and psy­at the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. son's heroics on a chilly after­lucky to shut out the Mets for chology professor George Four Italian racing bikes and noon at Fenway Park. Dodgers 6, Mets 3 eight innings. Howard also will take part in Carney Lansford hit Hurst's Lucky or not, Belcher beat the seminar, which will be see SPIRIT, page 14 first pitch in the eighth for a LOS ANGELES--Rookie Tim 
see BASEBALL, page 14
moderated by Nathan Hatch, double and Henderson Belcher allowed five hits in 8 

A healthy Banks means a complete backfield 
Notre Dame's backfield rushed for 321 yards in a 52-7 rout of Purdue two weeks ago and 341 yards in crushing Stanford 42-14 last Saturday night. 
And that was when the backfield was plagued by a series of injuries to key players. 
Saturday afternoon against Pittsburgh the Irish will have all of their backs in the lineup and the results could be even more impressive than in recent games. 
Junior fullback Braxston Banks, who started the first two games, will be back after missing the last two contests with torn knee ligaments. Banks in­jured his knee in the first series against Michigan State. Banks has been in action all week, playing a majority of the practice plays in an effort to get back in the flow of the Irish offense. 
"It's been tight and sore," Banks said after Wed­nesday~s practice. "A lot of it is getting back into things. I'm going to approach it with a hands-on attitude and give it all I can give it.'' 
Banks suffered a partially torn knee ligament in last year's opener at Michigan and missed games against Michigan State and Purdue. He bounced 
back to gain 212 yards on 54 carries and four touch­
downs. His high game was 59 yards on 11 carries 
against USC. 
In this young season, Banks has carried four 
times for 13 yards. Ironically, Banks went down at 
Michigan State on artificial turf and the Irish will 
Greg Guffey 
Football Notebook 

play on turf again at Pittsburgh Saturday. 
"If I was on the grass, it would make it a little better," Banks said. "I'd rather play my first game on grass, but I can't do much about it." 
Fullback Anthony Johnson also went down in East Lansing with a sprained ankle. He missed the Purdue game and carried 14 times for 61 yards and a touchdown against Stanford. Johnson should be near full strength against the Panthers. 

With Johnson and Banks back at tailback, Tony Brooks can return to the tailback spot behind Mark Green. Brooks rushed for 110 yards versus the Boilermakers and 59 against the Cardinal. Green has been consistent, gaining 293 yards in the four Irish victories. 
The Panthers have been inconsistent against the rush. Pittsburgh surrendered only 71 and 91 yards on the ground in victories over Northern Iowa and Ohio State, but gave up 261 and 124 rushing yards in losses to West Virginia and Boston College. Notre Dame ran for 464 yards against Pittsburgh in 1971, the most ever allowed by the Panthers. 
With all four top backs in the lineup, Notre Dame could pose problems to the Pittsburgh defense. If all four regain full strength, the Irish could domi­nate opposing defenses even more. 
"There's no telling where we could go," Banks said. "We were voted the No. 1 backfield in the nation during the summer. I can't see anything that can stop a healthy backfield. That goes for any team in the country, not just ourselves." 



