
Number One 
IACCENT: Tales from Britain Partly sunny Tuesday. High in the upper 40s to around 50. Clear and very cool Tuesday night. Low around 30. Mostly
IVIEWPOINT: Bush and Duke square off 
sunny Wednesday. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 44 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Bush ticket distribution stirs controversy 
Wrong info on distribution time leads to problems 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporter 
Incorrect information on the distri­bution of tickets to today's lecture by Vice President George Bush has resulted in controversy around the campus. 
Fliers were distributed by the Office of Student Activities on Friday, said Director of Student Activites Joseph Cassidy. The fliers said in part: "stu­dent tickets available Monday at noon at the LaFortune information desk." The information desk normally opens at noon, said Cassidy. 
Starting at 8 a.m., however, 900 stu­dent tickets were distributed from the information desk in the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. 
Many students registered as Republicans with Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Republicans were notified by phone that distribution would be taking place at 8 a.m. Several student organizations, including Stu­dents for DukakisBentsen and student government, did not find out the actual distribution time until late Sunday af­ternoon. 
"Student Activities took it as if it were business as normal," said Rich­ard Conklin, director of public relations and information. 
Conklin said the University and the Bush campaign advance team had agreed "from the beginning" that ticket distribution should be as early as 
see TICKETS, page 7 

AP Photo 
Vice President George Bush will be on ture Series. The lecture will be at 2:30 at campus today as part of the Law School's Stepan Center. White Center for Law and Government Lee-

Student leaders react to ticket distribution 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
The confusion surrounding Monday's 
distribution of tickets for Vice Presi­
dent George Bush's lecture today has 
student leaders irate. 
Leaders of campus organizations 
representing both parties were dis­
pleased that the original time of distri­
bution announced last Friday on Office 
of Student Activities fliers was incor­
rect and that a lack of communication 
existed in correcting the error. 
See Senate Reaction, p.3 
"This is supposed to be a lecture for the Notre Dame community. Everybody should have a chance to go and ask questions," said Karl Kronenberger, chairman of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Democrats. 
Kronenberger questioned the fact that Republicans on campus seemed to be informed of the mistake in time to contact pro-Bush students. "The Republicans had a phone tree network, and they tried to get all the conserva­tives that they could to get the tickets before the rest of the student body even knew they were on sale," said Kronenberger. 
"I arrived at twenty to eight and there were already tons of people there gathered around the information desk. At 8:00 I got up on a table and said this shouldn't start untill2:00 since that is what was announced," said 
see REACTION, page 7 

Candidate Ward visits Psych class Other ways to see Bush 
Ly CHRIS MURPHY Staff Reporter 
Third Congressional District candidate Tom Ward made a surprise visit to Prof. Daniel Lapsley's psychology class on Monday. 
Ward, a 1970 graduate of Notre Dame, emphasized his personal philosophy that "what I give is what I get" in the 20­minute speech and question and answer period during Lapsley's Child Development class. 
The Democratic candidate 
encouraged students to make a 
difference in the world. "I 
would encourage you as you 
face decisions to find a way to 
give something. In that way, 
you'll get a lot back," Ward 
said. 
Voting is one way of giving 
something, said Ward. 
"Democracy works only if the 
people vote. It's the minimum 
we can do." 
Notre Dame students can 
********* 
ELECTION '88 
have an even more direct im­pact by entering politics, said Ward. 
"We need good leadership 
. . . people like you in this 
room," said Ward. 
Students have also played an 
important role in his cam­
paign, added Ward. "It's a 
good place for those who are 
interested in politics to get 
started," said Ward. 
A key to succeeding in 
politics, as in life, is the realiza­
tion that "the only limitations 
are our own." said Ward. "There's nothing I have that you don't. You could be up here in five or ten years," Ward said. 
Ward went on to address his personal political activities and his race against 3rd Dis­trict incumbent Congressman John Hiler. 
Ward, who lost by just 47 votes to Hiler in the fall of 1986, said that it's time for'it change in the nation's economic policy. 
"I feel like I'm in an auto driving 90 miles per hour in the dark with no headlights on and there's a cliff somewhere out there," Ward said about the last eight years of Republican economic policy. 
Ward added his support for the Human Life Amendment but said that the United States needs to build proper "economic support structures because children need quality of life," said Ward. 
"Too many women have abortions because they can't afford children, said Ward. 
Ward concluded by saying that much of what students learn at Notre Dame coincides with the political world. "It takes involvement and giving of self. Take that specialness at Notre Dame and keep that spirit alive by sharing it," Ward said. 
lecture announced 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Seating will begin at 1:30 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Several alternative ar­rangements have been made for the George Bush lecture this afternoon at StepanCen­ter, but the "no signs" rule remains in effect. 
Speakers will be placed outside Stepan Center so that more people can hear the lecture. 
The Center for Continuing Education will have closed­circuit television broadcasts of the lecture in its meeting rooms. Doors to the CCE were opened at 8 a.m. today. The areas where television coverage has been installed will seat 300 people, said Director of student Activi­ties Joe Cassidy. 
The actual lecture is set to start at 2:30 p.m. today. 
p.m and ends at. 2 p.m:
Banners and stgns will not be permitted in Stepan, said Director of Public Relations and Information Richard Conklin. "What people do outside is fine," said Con­klin. 
"This has been standard procedure with all debates,'' 
,, he added. "We did the same thing with Ford, with Carter, with Reagan, with Mondale and all the other po­litical figures on campus." Conklin said that banners shown jn the background of 
local news broadcasts from Stepan yesterday would be removed by today's debate. 
The lecture by Bush is sponsored by the White Cen­ter on Law and Government. The Center provides a focal point for public law research in the Notre Dame Law School. 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University President Emeritus, will receive a special award for a lifetime con­




Notre Dame men do their 
tribution to health and higher education. Hesburgh will be 
one of two recipients of the Charles A. Dana Award for 
Pioneering Achievements in Health and Higher Education 

laundry in their own way
at a dinner ceremony in New York on Wednesday, Nov. 
2. NBC News Anchor Tom Brokaw will give the keynote address at the awards ceremony. Hesburgh, Notre Dame's president from 1952 to 1987, held 14 presidential appoint­ments involving him in numerous issues such as civil rights and peaceful uses of atomic energy. In 1987, he helped found the University's Institute for International Peace Studies. -The Observer 
The United Way of St. Joseph County has entered the final month of its 1988 campaign and has reached 58 per­cent of its $3,405,000 goal, according to Campaign Chair­man Father William Beauchamp. Nearly $2 million has been raised for the campaign which ends on Nov. 23. William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College and chairman of United Way's education and government unit, was awarded the Campaign Achievement Award for the second report in a row. -The Observer 
Anthony Trozzolo, Huisking professor of chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected to the board of trustees of the Gordon Research Conferences. Trozzolo founded and chaired the Gordon Research Con­ference on Organic Photochemistry in 1964. -The Observer 
James Carberry, professor of chemical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named the first recipient of the Autoclave Engineers Novel Reactor Award. The award recognizes oustanding contributions in the area of novel laborator reactor concepts, design and their elevation to reality. -The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
The Bush speech this afternoon will be broadcast on closed-circuit television at the Center for Continuing Education this afternoon. Doors opened at 8 a.m. today, and seating is on a first-come, first-serve basis. Seating is available for 300 students. -The Observer 
NO Professional Society is sponsoring a discussion with Dr. R. Wolosin, psychologist, concerning problems f~ced b~ medical stude~ts, residents, and family practi­tioners m Room 123 Nteuwland Science Hall at 7 p.m. tonight. -The Observer 
Grace Hall Debates continue at 9 p.m. tonight in the Pit of Grace Hall. The issue: "Racism is as much of a problem today as it was 30 years ago." -The Observer 
300 Rice student tickets are needed to allow mentally handicapped adults from the LaPorte County Sheltered Workshop and Logan Center to attend the Nov. 5 game. Students can drop off donated tickets in the dining halls or at the Center for Social Concerns until Saturday. -The 
· Observer 
Humanltas, the journal of the College of Arts and Letters, is accepting material on the Third floor of LaFor­tune until Nov. 4. -The Observer 
St. Edward's Hall Players will hold auditions for Agatha Christie's "Ten Little Indians" in St. Ed's first floor lounge on Wednesday at 4 p.m. and Thursday at 7 
p.m. Call Duane at 283-1661 or Lowell at 283-1699 for scripts or more information. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
Dear Michelle Dall, 
This is in response to your Oct. 6, 1988, Inside 
Column titled "Cleaning up your act is a dirty 
business." 
I must agree with several of your statements. 
The sight of men washing clothes is certainly 
pitiful. Many of our sex do resort to ploys such 
as calling up random girls to help us, and 
making such a mess in the laundry room that 
any female with a sense of compassion feels 
compelled to lend a hand. 
However, the vast majority of the male sex 
labors through the laundry experience, doing 
their own laundry in their own way. 
First, you must realize that the clothes you 
see as a girl are not the same ones I see as a 
guy. You see a pink blouse made of 100 percent 
cotton, something which would look good with 
that new sweater your Aunt Jill got you for 
Christmas last year. 
I see a pink shirt. Period. 
And it's probably dirty. 
As I'm sure you've noticed, the average Notre 
Dame male couldn't match a shirt to a sweater 
if his life depended on it. Shirts are simply in­
tended to be worn. Ideally the shirt is clean -­
or at least pressed. 
This leads to our attitude regarding cleaning 
this hypothetical pink shirt. If it doesn't need 
to match, what's a little extra bleach matter? 
Logically, white means clean, therefore the 
more bleach the better, right? 
Remember, white equals clean. 
Second, it is a well-known and scientifically­
proven fact that girls are born with an innate 
knowledge of what shrinks in what temperature 
water (I think I learned that in Honors Biology; 
I got a B-). 
This is the only logical explanation for how girls know that that dirty pink shirt belongs in cold water (I think). As you admitted in your column, girls don't do laundry at home either; that's what moms are for. Therefore, since they couldn't have learned it at home, a genetic ex­planation is the only answer. 
This goes to prove a third point: some girl in Neanderthal times (or whenever they invented the washing machine) decided that clothes should be washed by color. Certainly no guy ever decided this. It would be much more logi­cal to sort on another principle. Many guys, in a rebellion against the status quo, decide to sort based on size, fuzziness, or location on the body. I give my full support to these courageous freedom fighters. 
Matt Gallagher 
Assistant News Editor 

? 

Another problem an average Notre Dame male has with the entire laundry process (or should I say fiasco?) is the veritable plethora of detergents, fabric softeners, bleaches, starches, little-blue-sheets-that-smell, and the dozens of other items "necessary" to make that pink shirt pink. 
All I want to ask is: WHY? 
Again, I find myself in the unfortunate posi­tion of blaming this on that very same Nean­derthal woman. This was just a ploy on her part to confuse the many generations of men to fol­low who would find themselves stuck in the basement of Badin with fourteen boxes of pow­der, of which they can use precisely one: All Temperature Cheer (Note the operative phrase: "All Temperature." How can you go wrong?). 
Luckily for mankind (and I don't mean womankind), the Fab Detergent Co. has created the greatest invention of all time. Bet­ter than the automobile, better than the com­puter, better even than the wheel: the "Fab One Shot." 
Imagine, detergent and fabric softener in one! What a concept! 
Now, if they only could master the concept of colors and darks in one... 
~  GD~ a I' to i'o  ~~  
~  §Nlotof'antc  
~  ~  

Now Hiring full time experienced waitresses able to start at 3 pm and part time banquet waitresses. Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave. 

Duign Editor ...... ... . ... Kathy Huston 
o..ign Auiolanl . . . . . . ... Karen New love T~pe1ellera..... . . . . . Tim Kiefer ............................................ Mike Kolar New• Editora ............... Matt Gallagher .......................................... Sara Marley Copy Editor . . . Cindy Broderick Sparta Copy Editor... . . Steve Megagee Viewpoint Layout... ... Moira Fox Accent Copy Editor ..... Mike Resile Accent Designer. .. .. ... . Annette Rowland 
'Be OMirfer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. 'Be ~n-is published by 1M stlll:lenu or the Univcnity or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed roc S40 per year (US per semester) by writiq 'Be ~n-. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IDdia.na 46SS6. 
'Be~ is a member or 'Be .u.odaiM rn.. All reproduction ripu are reaerved. 
,~---­
Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
The Observer 
American hostage claims 

U.S. blocked his release 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon American hostage Terry An­derson, in a videotape released Monday by his kidnappers, read a statement that accused the Reagan administration of blocking his release and urged the next president to do more. 
President Reagan denied in­terfering with efforts to free Anderson, and his chief spokes­man, Marlin Fitzwater, denounced the tape as "a cyni­cal attempt" to influence the Nov. 8 election. 
Copies of the 2-minute, 35­second tape were delivered to two Western news agencies in Beirut four days after Ander­son, 41, marked his fourth birthday in captivity. 
Statements from the pro­Iranian Islamic Jihad, which holds Anderson, accompanied the tapes. 
"On the occasion of Terry .<\nderson's birthday and in response to your letters, and according to his desire to send you a recorded message, we hereby enclose with this state­ment the recorded message on videotape," the kidnappers said. 
Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associ­ated Press, began the message by identifying himself and saying the date was Oct. 30. 
"Once again I'm being given a chance to speak to my family, to my friends and to the Amer­ican people," he said. 
Anderson said his spirits were boosted by the birthday greetings he received, "But as my fourth birthday in captivity passes and as the end of my fourth year (in captivity) ap­proaches, I find it difficult to keep my hopes and my courage high." 
"I've been very close to being released several times over the past two years. But each time it seems that the U.S. govern-
Dan Peltier 
University of Notre Dame • Third Team Baseball • Accounting Major • 
3.50 GPA • Sophomore • 
ment uses its influence to stop any agreement from being made. And I don't understand this." 
In Los Angeles, Reagan told reporters his administration had done everything possible to win the hostages' freedom. "I don't think that was Terry speaking," he said. "I think he had a script that was given to him." 
When asked about the state­ment on the tape that the U.S. government interfered when the hostages were about to be released, Reagan said, "That is absolutely not true, but let me point something out. Terry Anderson is in that terrible con­finement at the hands of those barbarians --any information he has has to have come from there; there is no contact with the outside world." 
"We have been doing every­thing we can for the release of the hostages, " the president said. 
Hometown: Clifton Park, NY • 
Tom Mick University of Notre Dame •. Third Team At-Large-Track • Pre-Medicine Major • 
3.69 GPA • 
Senior • Hometown: Dayton, OH • 
Congratulations to the GTE Academic All-Americans~ 
They are the leaders of the team. But what makes them even more special is their outstanding academic records. They are the GTE Academic All-Americans, selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoS IDA) for being high achievers­in the game as well as the classroom. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 36-year-old program and congratulates these student-athletes on their Academic All-American achievements. 

page 3 
• 

A.P Photo 
This photograph was taken from a videotaped message by U.S. hostage Terry Anderson, delivered to a Western News Agency Monday in Moslem West Beirut. Anderson, Chief Correspondent for the Associated Press, has been in captivity almost four years. 
Senate discusses Bush ticket distribution 
By FLORENTINE 
HOF.LKER 
News Staff 
Student Senate again suspended its weekly agenda, this time to deal with the con­troversy surrounding the dis­tribution of tickets for today's lecture by Vice President George Bush. 
In an unusually long meeting Monday evening, the Senate discussed the available details surrounding the event. They agreed that blame could not yet be assigned to specific individ­uals, and voted on a represen­tative statement which would clearly state their views on the event. 
The senate resolution con­cluded that the University­sponsored lecture is supposed to be non-partisan, but has since not become such. As a result of difficulties with the ticket distribution process, the audience which has received tickets is probably not repre­sentative of the Notre Dame student body as a whole. 
The resolution states that they "regret the manner in which the lack of information was taken advantage of." In it, the senate also said that they "condemn the manner in which the ticket information was dis­seminated." 
Mike Paese, student body vice president, seemed to cap­ture the general opinion of stu­dent government when he said, "I find it disturbing that Notre Dame students were involved with and perpetuated this event." 
The senate also considered writing a press release to ex­press the opinion of student government concerning the event, but voted against it, saying that their primary con­cern was for the students. 
GTEAcADEMICAu:-AMERICA®TEAM 
SELECTED B y C o S I D A 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~• SOCIETYS 
,-~----------------------~---------------------------~--------­page 4 The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
Word ProcessinglOl. 
• There is agrim reality of college life that you may just one example of how Macintosh helps students 'Nork or may not be acquainted with.1)rping. smarter, quicker and more creatively. No, make that hours of typing. Precisely why you The good news is, with Macintosh you don't have should consider aMacintosh'M computer. to know anything about computers to use one. 
With programs like WriteNow and Microsoft Word, The better news is, you don't have to know any you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and change type thing about white out, either. sizes and styles with one finger. Which can come in very handy. (Especially if that's the way you type.) And that's tl!)The power to be your besr 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

!rJ/987Apple Computer, Inc., Apple andthe Apple logo are regisler!!dtmdemarlls if.andMacintosh and The power to heyour best are trademarks ifApple Computer, Inc.. Microsqft is a regisleredtmdemarll if,and lffmiIS atrademark ifMicrosoft Corp WrileNvw is aregisteredtmdemarll qfAIRUS. 

Tuesday, November 1, 1988 

" "tS CI8SS The Observer 1 Mike Moran
Ward ~lSI 
The Observer page 5 
MBA Mini-Forum to be held today in the CCE 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporter 
The annual "MBA Mini­Forum" will be held today in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education from noon until 4 p.m. 
"The purpose of the Forum is to bring together as many top MBA programs from across the country in one set­ting," said Jeff Rice, Assistant Director of Career and Place­ment Services, which sponsors the event. 
Rice said that representa­tives from thirty-four schools Will be present, many from ad­
missions offices. The Univer-
Tom Ward, candidate for Indiana's 3rd District Congressional seat, sity of Chicago, Wake Forest, speaks to students in Prof. Dan Lapsley's Child Development class Penn State, University of Vir­yesterday. Related story on page 1. ginia, University of Southern California, University of Texas at Austin, and Michigan State 
are among the prestigious progams that will have infor­mation available to students, said Rice. 
The table representatives will answer questions and dis­tribute information particular to graduate programs, said Rice. "No interviews or ap­pointments will take place. In­stead students can stay as long as they wish to gather informa­tion." 
Representatives from the MBA program at Notre Dame will also be present and avail­able to talk with interested stu­dents, said Rice. He said that this was particularly beneficial to students that are unable to get individual appointments. 
Students of all majors are en­couraged to attend because ''all types of majors enter MBA pro~rams, not just business majors," according to Rice." 
·'All classes should come to the Forum so that students can begin to accumulate informa­tion and make more informed choices about their future," said Rice. 
Abenefit of this Forum is "to help students understand the real purpose of an MBA and what it can do for them career­wise," said Rice. 
Rice said that students are also able to make contacts at the schools for the future. "The representatives are very per­sonable and students are usually able to call and ask for the person by name at a later date." 
In the past the average atten­dance has been 200 students, said Rice. "I feel good about the program because no where else in four hours will you have such an array of information available, " said Rice. 
IKAPLAN 
Labor, Likud battle in Israeli election
STANI.£Y H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL UNTER LTD. 
Associated Press eluding a rabbi's daughter and her three children killed in a -IMPORTANT NOTICE­
JERUSALEM -Israelis vote weekend attack. Tuesday in an election tied to Sunday's firebomb attack on(Good News!!) 
11 months of violence that has a bus that killed 27-year-old cost the lives of more than 300 schoolteacher Rachel Weiss A second LSAT prep course for the 10/1/88 
Palestinians and 10 Jews, in-and her children was expected
.....•...................•...................•.,
test will be starting at the Kaplan Center 
•
•
immediately. If you were unable to enroll or if you are a transfer from another 
!• HEY IRISH! 
Kaplan Center and were not able to 
i• LET'S GO INSANE!!
get a seat in Class I, please call the 
• 
South Bend Kaplan Center right away 
•
•
for class dates and times. You will 
i SIGN UP FOR THE IRISH 
•
• 
i• • 
! 
•
•
•
! 
have the same instructor. Please do 
! INSANITY CHEERING SECTION i 
not delay if you want a seat in Class II. 
i FOR THE ND HOCKEY AND ! 
We regret any inconvenience caused due 
! BASKETBALL. BE APART OF A i 
to increased demand for our LSAT prep 
i TRUE IRISH SPIRIT ALL 
course for the 10/1/88 test. 
•
i SEASON ,LONG!!
• 
Kaplan Educational Center 
•
; SIGN UP LIST IN SUB OFFICE OR
l 717 E. South Bend Avenue 
•
: CALL 239-7757 BY FRIDAY! 
South Bend, IN 46637 
•
•
PHONE 219/272-4135 
i• • GO IRISH! 
•
•
• 
5
•
! •
•
:
•
;
• 
!• •
• 
to boost the chances of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of the conservative Likud bloc, who advocates tougher measures against the Arab uprising in the occupied lands. 
"There's no question it will help Likud," said Daniel Elazar, a political analyst of the Jerusalem Center for Public Mfairs. "For most voters, this will only reconfirm their beliefs, but for those voters sitting on the fence something like this could push them off to the right." 
Zeev Eitan, a political analyst at Tel Aviv Univer­sity's Jaffee Center for Strate­gic Studies, said: "in this elec­tion, that could be the difference between a clear vic­tory by one party or a tie." 
Polls taken before the attack and published Monday in the newspaper Maariv either gave Likud the edge or indicated a dead heat similar to the one that forced Likud and the center-left Labor Party into a ''national unity'' coalition in 1984. 
Four different polls indicated Labor, led by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, and its left-wing partners would win 47-55 of the Knesset's 120 seats, with Likud 

and its allies getting 56-65. 
UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
"THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST" 
***OPEN UNTIL 3AM FRIDAY/SATURDAY 
CATERING FOR TAILGATERS & SYRs OWNER--MATT HIGHBARGER ND '89 
1-------------T·-------------·------------­
50 CENTS OFF I $1.00 OFF I $2.00 OFF I
I ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA I (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN TWO 16" ROUND PIZZAS) I
I
I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I 
1 277-8889 I 277-8889 1 277-8889 
I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 12-01188 II UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 12-01188 I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp. 12-01188~ I 18055 ST AD 23 18055 ST. RD. 23 I 18oss ST RD. 23 
~-------------6·--------------~------------­
.....
--------~----------------~---~ ~--~ -~~---~-----------­
The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1988
page 6 
300 Rice student tickets are needed for mentally disabled 
By CINDY PETRITES 
News Staff 
Students representing the Logan Center Council for the Retarded and the LaPorte County Sheltered Workshop have joined forces to allow developmentally disabled children and adults to attend the Rice football game this weekend. 
To raise their goal of 300 stu­dent tickets, the students have launched an ad campaign and are manning booths in the dining halls to make students aware of their efforts and motivate them to contribute. 
"It's something the kids really look forward to," said senior Karen Maier, co-leader of the Logan Center Council for the Retarded. The Council, composed of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who orga­nize weekly activities with the retarded community of South Bend has been collecting stu­dent tickets for the last few years to allow Logan Center clients the chance to attend one 
Wa need your help to Improve Grad Life atNotre We can put your ld.as Into actiOn; · : << \' ? > 
-LIMITED TIME cOMMITMENT Help us improve: 
')::: <·"····· 
-Campus Housing 
-Ticket Allotment 
Find out where 
you -Social Life 
would like to help. -Library Hours 
Check out our commiHees: -Travel Grant -Information -Women's Resource -Publicity -Intellectual Ufe -Social -International Grad Sudents 

HOW1 
Come to our Informational Meeting/Social Dinner( 
WHEN: NOV. 1ST WHERE: ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB > TIME: 5!30 PM Dinner• 
6:00 PM Presentation 

FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
VINCENT R. RAYMOND 
ASSOCIATE DEAN, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
"BEYOND THE BBA--THE WORLD OF BUSINESS" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1988 
7:30 P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 
• l
Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
possible since student interest was unknown. "There was a strong preference that (the au­dience) be students," said Cas­sidy. 
"We wanted as early an in­dication as possible" of student interest, said Conklin. "We were surprised to see such a response after the Hileli'Ward debate showed limited inter­est." About 400 students atten­ded the Hileli'Ward debate after a strong publicity effort, said Conklin. 
Conklin said he did not know Sunday that fliers had been dis­tributed with incorrect times. "I did the best I could Sunday afternoon" to get the word out, Conklin said. He said he had sent press releases to The Ob­server and to WVFI. 
Distribution of the fliers with the incorrect times "was a mis­take," said Conklin. "The whole scenario that there was a conspiracy is untrue," Con­klin added. 
"Tickets ran out at 10: 20," said Cassidy. He added that they were handed out on a first­come, first-served basis, with two tickets given out for each student identification pre­sented. 
According to Cassidy, 900 tickets were allotted for Notre Dame students, 200 for Saint Mary's students, and 200 for the Law School, whose White Cen­ter is sponsoring the Bush lec­ture. 
Saint Mary's students were notified by flier that distribu­tion at Saint Mary's would be on Monday at 9 a.m., and dis­
tribution was in fact at that 
time. 
Two hundred tickets were 
handed out by the University 
and the St. Joseph's GOP 
received 500, said Tom 
Ehrhardt, co-chairman of Stu­
dents for BushQuayle. 
"By no means was there any scheme to mislead any student groups," Ehrhardt said. "That's just not true." He added that there was no at­tempt to hide the distribution time from the DukakiS!Bentsen people. 
But a note distributed by Stu­dents for BushQuayle to mem­bers of that organization and members of the unrelated Notre DameSaint Mary's Col­lege Republicans, marked "CONFIDENTIAL," read in part "Tell all your Republican friends (and not Democratic) to join us (for a meeting) and to also definitely pick up their two tickets . . . Monday, even if they won't use both, for we can re-distribute the tickets for them." 
The note did not specify dis­tribution times for the tickets, but several members of Col­lege Republicans were also called by the "Vice President's Advance Desk" and notified of . the correct time for ticket dis­tribution. They were also told . that it was "really important that (they) get over there and get tickets for support of Vice 
President Bush." 
College Republicans said they were unaware of any plans to contact students about ticket distribution. 
"There has not been any 
redistribution of tickets," said 
Matt Schlapp, co-chairman of 
Students for BushQuayle, of 
LAST YEAR 7,SI4 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

~-------------------.COPY EARLY COPY LATE COPY WEEKENDS When you need a full seJVice copy shop before work or after hours. depend on Kinko's. 
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
1811I7 S1a!e Road 23 
271.{)398 
CAMPAIGN '88: THE REAL ISSUES 
Notre Dame Student Government PRESENTS A DEBATE BETWEEN 
LIBERAL VIEWS VS. CONSERVATIVE VIEWS 
John Gilligan -Professor & Director of Institute  Charles Rice -Law Professor,  
for International Peace Studies  University of Notre Dame  
and  and  

Joseph Bauer -Law Professor, James Carberry -Professor Chemical 
University of Notre Dame Engineering, University of Notre Dame 
the note. "We certainly had people using the tickets." 
"You can't blame Students for BushQuayle or the BushQuayle campaign for our superior organization," said Allison Heuring, a member of Students for BushQuayle who was responsible for the note campaign. 
"There's nothing wrong with making sure that Republicans knew the distribution was at 8:00," said Erhardt. 
"Some of the (non-Republican) groups obviously did find out," said Schlapp. He said that members of Students for DukakiS!Bentsen and the Anti-Apartheid Network were on the ticket line at LaFortune. Schlapp also said that he had attempted to call officials in student government on Sunday but did not reach them. 
100 tickets that were originally set aside for Stu­dents for BushQuayle were in­stead distributed to Notre Dame students who were put on a waiting list for tickets, said Schlapp. "We tried to make a gesture," said Schlapp. 
"It's a shame that a mistake resulted in phone calls that kept the rest of the student body out" of the Bush lecture, said Student Body President Tom Doyle. Mike Paese, stu­dent body vice president, added that it was "unfortunate that the typical Notre Dame student, whether or not he or she has a party affiliation, will not have a chance to hear the Vice President speak." 
"To people who say that can­didates are using Notre Dame, I say, where is the other can­didate?" said Conklin. "One chose not to come and one did choose to come. The one who did come obviously has an ad-, vantage " 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
Kronenberger. Kronenberger .said he was openly ridiculed by others in line after this state­
ment. The person responsible for dis­tributing the tickets told Kronenberger he was told by 
the Office of Student Activities 
to distribute the tickets at 8 
a.m. 
Mike Bettencourt, chairper­son of Students for DukakiS!Bentsen, shared Kronenberger's views. "In no way was the ticket distribution fair," said Bettencourt. 
"There was an obvious at­tempt to control who gets into a University-sponsored event," said Bettencourt. 
"I got a phone call from someone who happened to be working in ticket distribution. I believe every attempt was made to contact the Republicans," Bettencourt said. 
Students for BushQuayle, a campus political organization, started a note distribution cam­paign to publicize the ticket dis­tribution to fellow Republicans. 
Members whose names ap­peared on mailing and phone lists of the College Republicans received notes from a group calling itself the "George Bush election committee." The note was marked "CONFIDEN­TIAL'' and informed students of an organizational meeting held Sunday evening in the Cen­ter for Continuing Education. 
The note read, in part, "Tell all our Republican friends (and not Democratic) to join us and to also definitely pick up their two tickets . . . Monday, even if they won't use both, for we can re-distribute the tickets for them." 
SECURITY BEAT 
OCTOBER 26 OCTOBER 27 
7:16 a.m. A University employee reported 9:43 a.m. Security responded to the 
the theft of a computer from the Math report of a minor two car accident in the Computing Center sometime between 12:17 Snite Drive. No injuries were reported, and and5:55 am. damage estimates are unknown at this time. 
10:29 a.m. A Granger resident reported 3:45 p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his Gig Bag and contents from the theft of her books and other items from Orange Field sometime between 5 and 8:30 outside the racquetball court at the JACC 
p.m. on 10/15. His loss is estimated at sometime between 2:30 and 3:35 p.m. Her $240.00. loss is estimated at $150.00. 
"We played no part in it whatsoever," said Mike Kraft, 
co-chairperson of the Notre DameSaint Mary's College Republicans, of the note cam­paign. "I'm personally fed up." 
Although the notes were ad­dressed to "College Republicans," the official Notre DameSaint Mary's or­ganization was uninvolved, ac­cording to Kraft. 
Kronenberger was informed Sunday evening by an anonymous phone caller that the tickets would actually be distributed at 8 a.m. Monday morning. The caller also in­formed Kronenberger of the meeting in the CCE. 
Kronenberger attempted to attend this meeting to get in­formation about asking Bush a question following his lecture. "I tried to go over there, but they wouldn't let me in," said Kronenberger. He was asked if 
he supported Bush and was denied entrance when he replied he was not, according to Kronenberger. 
Student Body Vice President Mike Paese also commented on the confusion. "It may be within the rules, but it's unfair and manipulative," Paese said. 
Paese expressed concern that the University was being manipulated by the Bush cam­paign. "I hate to see us identi­fied with a specific political ideology," said Paese. 
"The tickets are out now, they can't be changed," Paese said. 
Paese and Student Body President .Tom Doyle met early Tuesday with University President Father Edward Mal­loy to discuss the situation, but no change in the ticket distri­bution is planned. 
OCTOBER 28 
1:10 a.m. While on patrol in the D-2 Lot , Security noticed damage to a vehicle belonging to a Flanner Hall resident. The incident occurred sometime between 8 p.m. on 10!23 and 12:32 am. on 10/28. Damage is estimated at $500.00. 
10:15 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her car from Green Field sometime between 5 p.m. on I 0!27 and 4 p.m. on 10/28. 
OCTOBER 29 
4:55 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported that her car had been broken into while parked in the D-2 Lot sometime before 3:30am. Her loss is estimated at $500.00. 
6: 17 a.m. Security received several larcenies to student vehicles parked in the D­2 and D-1 Lots. The larcenies occurred sometime between 2 and 3:30 am. 
6:12 p.m. A law student reported the theft of her books from the Law School Library sometime between I0/15 and I 0/16. Her loss is estimated at $40.00. 9 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for traveling 43 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Ivy Road. 
OCTOBER 30 
6:38 a.m. Security received several reports of vandalism to vehicles parked in the D-2 and St. Joseph Lots The vandalism occurred sometime between 4:45 and 5:34 am 
11:50 a.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his jacket from Alumni/Senior Oub sometime between 1:15 and 1:30 a.m. His loss is estimated at $300.00. 8 p.m. Security confiscated several Van Halen T -Shirts from persons selling them without proper authorization. 
9:05 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his car stereo while his vehicle was parked in the D-1 Lot sometime between 5 p.m. on 10/29 and 6 p.m on 10/30. His loss is estimated at $250.00. 
OCTOBER 31 
1 a.m. While patrolling the JACC, a Security Officer discovered vandalism to the men's restroom by Gym I. 

On November 1st at 7:30 p.m. in the Norman Barry Courtroom of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Viewp
Tuesday, November 1 , 1988 
Vote for Bush and Hiler 
The 1988 presidential campaign has mercifully entered its final week, with voters feeling disappointed. Neither George Bush nor Michael Dukakis has emerged as a strong choice. The voters have been forced to select the mar­ginally better candidate, and for this reason The Observer endorses George Bush. 
The primary issue of this campaign has been the eco­nomy. One cannot doubt that the Reagan administration has enjoyed a certain degree of economic success. His policies have increased aggregate output, lowered un­employment, and tamed inflation. These same policies have left much to be desired, however--large budget and merchandise trade deficits, a worsening income distribu­tion and a decline of U.S. economic power worldwide. Bush can claim partial credit for the successes, but if he wins he must address the failures. 
Bush can also claim partial credit for the successes of the Reagan administration's "peace through strength" stance. U .S.-Soviet relations have improved lately with the signing of the INF accord, for example. Bush seems ready not to revert to Cold War rhetoric. 
Two of Bush's weakest policy positions are in Central America and defense spending. The Reagan administra­tion's current support of the Contra rebels in Nicaragua has accomplished nothing yet has cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. A new approach to the region's prob­lems is desperately needed. 
• The recent defense spending scandal signals the need for tighter fiscal responsibility in the largest budget cat­egory. A critical look at the need for and feasibility of specific weapons programs is in order. Cutting waste from the defense department does not weaken our nation's defense. 
Although George Bush is not the most qualified candidate in the country, he is the most qualified of this year's choices. 
The Observer endorses incumbent John Hiler(R) for the 3rd District Congressional seat. Hiler has been competent in representing the people of this district for the past eight years and should continue in this capacity. 
Much of what a congressman can accomplish is based on respect among his peers in the House of Representa­tives. Currently in his fourth term as representative, Hiler has proven himself capable of serving his district's inter­ests in the Washington bureaucracy. 
Hiler also has proposed an innovative approach to curing the growing education ills of this country. 
His belief that a tuition tax credit program for parents who pay for private education is a positive step for those in the middle class and those students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Similarly, Hiler's willingness to support an open enroll­ment plan acknowledges both a crisis in the public school system and that competition among school systems can improve education. 
He has also shown clear support for recruiting foreign investors to bring industry and jobs to the 3rd district. Though his opponent shot down the issue at the student­sponsored debate last Thursday, Hiler recognized that this rust belt area needs industry to provide jobs now. 
For continued fair representation in third district of In­diana, exercise your right to vote. Exercise it for John Hiler. 
-The Observer 

Election '88: c 
Dukakis vows to seek progressive change 

So, you thought Ronald Reagan could not be president again? Think again. George Bush will make your worst Reagan fears come true--only worse. In November the American people have the chance to reverse the reactionary trends of the last eight years by electing Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen. If George Bush and J. Danforth Quayle are elected, the trends of the Reagan-Bush era will not only con­tinue but also get worse. 
Karl Kronenberger Thomas Darin 
guest column 
During the last eight years, the 
Reagan-Bush administration has led 
an assault on America's poor. 
Poverty rates have increased for al­
most all demographic groups, but 
children under age six and families 
headed by women show the largest 
increases and have the highest rates 
of poverty in each racial group. 
There are 33 million people living in 
poverty, 8.5 million more than in 
1978. 
The average yearly cost of two 
children in day care is $4,000. Bush 
encourages the private sector to pro­
vide on-site facilities even though 
today only one percent of medium­
to-large-sized companies provide 
even partial coverage of child care 
costs for their employees. Bush also 
encourages employers to provide 
health care insurance for workers 
and opposes federally requiring it. 
Over the last eight years the 
majority of new jobs have been in 
the low-paying service sector; how 
populations, but, because of lack of 
federal funding, WIC only serves 40 
percent of those eligible. Bush has 
no position available regarding WIC. 
Dukakis represents a trend away from catering to the rich and neglect­ing the poor in this country. Dukakis supports a universal, federally funded health care bill. He also sup­ports a federal commitment to day care programs and WIC. George Bush is obviously against homeless­ness but is publicly indifferent, and the Reagan-Bush administration's lack of policies targeting the home­less just fuels the problem. Dukakis opposes the federal government "un­loading" housing stocks, and he calls for sufficient state housing funds and many of these do you think will pro­vide health care? It also must be noted that the Reagan-Bush admin­istration has repeatedly tried to dis­mantle Medicare and replace it with a voucher system. Together, Reagan and Bush cut $20 billion from Social Security and tried to push through $200 billion more before 199.2. Bush is opposed to long-term catastrophic health insurance. 
The Harvard University Physicans Task Force on Hunger es­timates that 20 million people in the 
U.S. go hungry for some period of time each month--12 million of them children. The indicator of the health in our nation, the infant mortality rate, is higher than that of 17 in­dustrialized countries. To directly address this problem is the effec­tively proven Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). WIC has been suc­cessfully used in highly vulnerable new financial and regulatory strate­gies for dealing with expiring con­tracts and restrictions. To address the housing shortage, he proposes a National Partnership for Affordable Housing, housing incentive grants, tax credits, mixed housing produc­tion, and federal rental assistance. 
Dukakis represents a trend away from catering to the rich and neglecting the poor in this country. 
A Bush-Quayle victory would con­tinue the Reagan-Bush trends of malignant neglect of America's working people. An estimated 12 mil­lion Americans lost jobs since 1981 as a result of plant-closings and layoffs. For those laid off, there is only a 62 percent chance of finding another job within a year. More than 44 percent of the new jobs created in our economy during the 1980s pay less than $7,400 a year--35 percent less than a poverty level income for a family of four. Also, in the Reagan­Bush era, 84 percent of job growth has been in the two lowest--paying industries. 
Bush is not on the side of the Amer­ican workers. Every year since 1981 the administration proposed cuts in already inadequate child care pro­grams and offered no new ways for working parents to afford day care. Bush opposed recent legislation re­quiring 60 days notice of plant closings to workers. And the admin­istration cut funds for employment and training by 51 percent since it entered office in 1979. While Bush recently flip-flopped on the mini­mum wage, the facts of his seven years in office are that the minimum wage has declined 31 percent in real value. 
The Bush agenda and the Quayle record says NO to workers. They op­pose all of the following: collective bargaining rights for workers, the textile and apparel trade act, un­employment compensation benefits legislation, strengthening safety laws, labor law reform. 
Dukakis proposes a Fund to Rebuild America that will commit a half billion dollars a year to economy-building and job-creating partnerships. Dukakis also supports raising the minimum wage. He strongly supports American workers. For example when General Motors Corp. conside1 down its Massachu Dukakis brought com) and town leaders toget nize a worker-training 1 save the plant and 4,()()( 
The Reagan-Bush ac 
has had contempt for 
democracy that Amerl 
close to their hearts. , 
Bush would mean a vi 
most undemocratic insl 
U.S. government--the 1 
ting one of their own : 
CIA and the "secret 
posed of characters 
Shackley, Richard 
Singlaub, will get 
continue to subvert constitution. 
Bush has effectively 
tions his Contra affair. "'"'"'"'·""..' 
discussed in the .."'"'"""u meeting between 
and Bush? In a 
retary wrote "Contra Bush's aids recently 
president does not 
was discussed at however it did not 
If it did 
to effectively 
human rights, 
ken domestic and 
and compromised 
values and American 
its own causes. 
Vice Presidents 1986 
Terrorism, and then 
the administration 
Ayatollah 
evidence that the 
paign in 1980 cut a 
Moammar Khaddafi 
release of the 
held until after the 
in the U.S. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Edttor·m·Chtel Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John Oxrtder 
Managmg Edttor Chns Donnelly Adverttstng Destgn Manager Molly K1ilen News Edttor Reg1s Cocc1a Adverlistng Manager Lmda Goldschmidt 
The Observer IS the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students ol the Un1vers1ty ol News Edttor Mark Mclaughlin Productton Manager Bernadene Sh11ts Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessanly reflect the poltetes ol V1ewpo1nt Edttor Man Slaughter Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway the admtn1strat1on ol e1ther 1nstttut1on The news IS reported as accurately and obrecttvely as Sports E dttor Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hard1man poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nton ol the maJOrtty ol the Ed1tonal Board Accent Edttor Beth Healy GraphiC Arts Manager Marga Bruns Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the 111ews of thetr authors Column Samt Mary's Edttor Sandy Cenmele space IS ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of varytng Photo Edttor M1chael Moran op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 

odged ques­in the Iran­' what was discovered Rodriguez Bush's sec­. " But aid the vice ember what .e meeting, cern Contra Bush would 
:Sh ,ictory 
tdemo­
' 
~~ CIA. 
M L 
6 
Bush may say he is fighting ter­rorism, but he allowed Panamanian General Manuel Noreiga--a known drug dealer since 1972, a terrorist, and a murderer himself--to conduct business as usual with our govern­ment. Bush also supports the Contra military commander Enrique Ber­mudez who was quoted, "We will see more sabotage, maybe attacks on Sandinista personalities, and why not terrorism?" To Ferdinand Marcos, one of the most oppressive abusers of human rights, Bush gave praise for "his adherence to demo­cratic principles and the democratic process.'' 
Ethics and democracy will not be meaningless words to Dukakis. 
Bush is also connected with CIA senior specialists who led a domestic propaganda operation to manipulate the media, the Congress, and public . opinion to support administration policies. This subversion of democracy was not fully inves­tigated because it was out of the in­vestigative mandate of the Iran­Contra committee (See L.A. Times 9-11-88). Ethics and democracy will not be meaningless words to Dukakis. 
Dukakis will lead a trend toward progress ive change in America, one with an emphasis on the victims of 
!1111-111!!11111-.• the economic violence in the last 
has refused :ruggles for nstead bro­fltionallaws democratic es to further chaired the omission on silent while · d arms to There is 11-Bush cam­
•ith terrorist N'ithhold the s Khomeini !ral election 
»onesbury 
eight years. The priority will be shifted from protecting the rich to protecting the poor. Foreign policy will be conducted with a respect for self-determination, not negotiation through strength and terror. Dukakis will work within the law in­stead of above the law. For there to be progressive change in the U.S., there must be climate for this change. Such a climate will exist un­
der  Dukakis  as  leader  of  this  
country.  
Karl  Kronenberger  and  Thomas  

Darin are the Co-chairpersons ofthe College Democrats of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
OF TH£3 &LECTION BeNG ~ FINAUY R&ACHW TH£3 {)UKAK/5 CAMP... 
Bush focuses 
In the 1988 presidential campaign, the family has jumped to the fore­front of the few issues the candidates have chosen to address. I grant that the candidates' motivation for lan­ding on this issue may be mere op­portunism, but the recognition that there is a problem with the American family is of great benefit to our na­tion. 
Marty Schrier 
guest column 
The traditional family, the one that helped build our great country, is fal­ling by the wayside. In the past, the family served to educate and to in­still values in our children. However, the pandemic teenage drug abuse, gang violence, teenage pregnancies, and illiteracy points to a loss of values and direction in American youth. 
This loss, which has been most prevalent in the past 25 years, has weakened the economic and social bases of our country. 
Not so long ago, divorce, single parenthood and unwed mothers were exceptions to the norm. People today still think that these situations are anomalies, but statistics say other­wise: 
Almost half of the marriages per­formed this year will end in divorce. The United States possesses the highest rate of divorce in the world. 
Three-fifths of the children born this year will spend at least part of their childhood in a single-parent family. 
One-fifth of all children born in the United States last year were born to unwed mothers; the figure for minorities is even higher. 
These figures should be cause for alarm to anyone who cares about the future of our nation. 
The lure of drugs and gangs in our nation's schools is stealing the edu­cation of the very people who need it the most: the lower classes. These teenagers are wallowing in a vi­scious cycle which is marked by the diSappearance of the family and the disintegration of the community. The family needs to be resurrected before these people can rise out of poverty. 
The middle class is by no means immune to the problems brou_ght about by the destruction of the fam­ily. With a large number of middle class families having two parents in the workforce, children are often left to be raised by friends, relatives, or daycare facilities. There is a definite loss of values and of culture when children are able to learn from their parents for only an hour and' ahalf per day. Our public schools and child care facilities cannot begin to com-
on traditional 
pensate for this loss of parental care. 
The 1988 presidential campaign has been deluged with images of family and the future of our country. The American voter must determine which candidate is best able to help move the American family in the right direction. I feel that George Bush and the Republican Party are willing to make a firm and sincere commitment to bringing the family back from ruin. 
While Ronald Reagan has brought economic prosperity, jobs, peace, and world respect, his attempts to restore the family have sadly failed. Minorities have been largely ig­nored, and that is where the family 
family values 
portunity for a better life. George Bush will remove disincentives to grandparents caring for their grandchildren by repealing the earn­ings limitations for social security 
The Governor of Mas­sachusetts is quick to point out his ethnic heritage, but his deal­ings with Rev. Jesse Jackson show that he does not really under­stand the needs of 
minorities. 
has suffered the most. Under Secre-..------------• 
tary of Education William Bennet, the public schools have improved, but there remains much work to be done. Unfortunately, the small yet significant progress which has been made over the past eight years in the area of family issues has been overshadowed by the various scan­dals which have rocked the Reagan administration. 
George Bush is not Ronald Reagan. George Bush did not like Ronald Reagan eight years ago, and I still doubt they are the best of friends. Bush has done his job, a loyal advisor, and he has done it well. George Bush, however, rises far above his former boss on the issues of family and values. 
The lure of drugs and gangs in our nation's SChOOlS is stealing the 
•
education of the verypeople WhO need it the most· the lower 
• 
classes. 
George Bush's understanding of the vital importance of family issues was evidenced in his acceptance speech at the Republican convention in New Orleans. "It is family that communicates to our children--to the twenty-first century--our culture, our religious faith, our traditions and our history." 
George Bush has outlined pro­grams intended to curb the trends which are causing the destruction of the family. A "toddler" tax credit program has been proposed that will aid poor mothers in finding proper child care to help the development of their children. George Bush will strongly encourage states to promote child care programs that will allow teenage mothers to con­tinue their education by remaining in school, thus allowing them the op-
Garry Trudeau 
recipients. 
Continuing education reform is also important to George Bush. The Vice President realizes that educa­tion is the key to our nation's future strength. Since 1980, the average teacher's salary has increased by 20 percent to $28,000 per year. George Bush intends to continue increasing the salaries of educators so that the best qualified individuals will be drawn to teaching. 
Civil rights have always been a concern of George Bush. The Vice President's promise to nominate a Hispanic on the Cabinet may sound patronizing, but it exemplifies his eagerness to have minorities in­volved in the upper levels of govern­ment. The Governor of Massachusetts is quick to point to 
his ethnic heritage, but his dealings with Rev. Jesse Jackson show that 
he does not really understand the needs of minorities. George Bush's experience with drug preve~tion_ a~d his h~rd stance 
on cnme will aid m purgmg two of the greatest plagues of families and the nation. The Governor of Massa­chusetts does not even have the sup­port of the police force of Boston. 
The traditional value system of the Republican party brings hope that the Bush-Quayle ticket can direct the structure of the American family. The quality of the candidate each party nominated is exemplary of the different emphasis the two parties place on traditional family values. 
George Bush's impending victory on Nov. 8 will serve to accomplish at least one vital task: reminding Americans that the family still does matter. We can only hope that, when George Bush assumes the presidency in January, the Demo­
cratic Congress will go along with his initiatives to help rebuild the American family. 
Marty Schrier is the treasurer ofthe Notre Dame Chapter of College Republicans. 
A CDUPL& OF Wf5131<5. f3UT TH£3'1 ONLY MAP& ITOFF!OAL-7DPAY.  UM... YOU'u. HAV/3. TO WAIT. He'S IN TAPING AN INT&RV18W WITH  GOV!3/<NOR, IF YOU CaJW 8&  
CAN I G&T A R&­AWON FROM TH&  BARB/IRA WAL7!3RS AT TH& MOM&NT.  ANY VcotTABl&, WHATWOUW  
I  /YOU...  

Quote of the Day 
"Drunkenness is tempo­rary suicide: the happi­ness that it brings is merely negative , a momentary cessation of unhappiness." 
Bertrand Russell 
., 
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
Britain Through the Nag's Head 
T 
he usual Sunday lunch­the fruits of several months the hot tip for the 2.35 horse­The England portrayed unique distinction of calling time ritual of walking of hard work and special race at Kempton Park. through the glossy picture ourselves the champion onion down the road to the pub is care. The first round of I discovered the charms of postcards of the Changing of growers of Sunningdale, tinged with extra excitement drinks is ordered, and the having a local pub through the Guard and the whispered Royal Berkshire, England. If 
Sunningdale's Nag's Head. I rumours about the stability of nothing else, this elevated was drawn into the open the Prince and Princess of status affords us the privilege 
ALISON COCKS 
friendliness, and soon found Wales' marriage has little in of holding our heads high in myself rushing through the common with the one I expe­the pub until next year. rituals of the week, anxiously rience through these weekly awaiting my Sunday jaunt to excursions. Both are reflec­Although not currently en­
Illegal Aliens 
the place that I had dubbed tions of England's past and rolled in an overseas program, 
the most hospitable in En­present, yet it is through Alison Cocks is a citizen ofboth today. The regulars of the· real purpose of the day un­gland. these people that I feel I am the United States and Britain Nags Head pub in Sun­folds. Today is the weigh-in Physically, it would never truly experiencing what it and has lived overseas for a ningdale drift into the pub in day of the Great Onion win any "House Beautiful" means to be a "Brit." number of years. This is the twos and threes, each bearing Growing Competition. awards, but to me it would Headaches of the past week first in a series ofarticles relat­
Rumours have circulated lose some of its atmosphere if pale into insignificance in the ing her experiences in Europe. for weeks concerning secret Jean and Albert, the company of the regulars as 
,,..
•... fertilizing formulae or the proprietors, ever found the we exchange the customary chap in Ascot whose onion is time and inclination to fix the friendly banter. For the time reported to be as big as a paper on the ceiling, parts of being, I could want nothing football. Twenty-seven onions which are held in place with more from life than my pint are placed upon the scales in strips of cellotape, or to give of draft as I lean back in my the search for the Nag's Head the nicotine-stained walls a favourite seat, listening with Champion Onion Grower. fresh coat of paint in their half an ear to the talk of this 
To the inhabitants of the original shade of off-white. week's special at the small towns of England, trips fishmonger's on one side of down the road to the local After my first few visits, the me and a heated debate over pub for a pint or two and a faded, plush upholstery on the this weekend's edition of the chat with the regulars are as 'bar stools and chairs and the Racing Post on the other. essential as breathing. For an ·bar glasses, unused and un­hour or two in the afternoon dusted for years, ceased to To top it all off, after two the problems of the world are appear worn, and simply straight years of embarrass­set aside, and the most press-added to the character of the ment, my family has finally ing issues involve cricket and place. succeeded in winning the 
_)
, •••r 
llluatratlona by David Gentleman I "David Gentleman'• London" 
London's Driving Me Crazy! 
E 
LAURA STANTON Strains from "The Flight of ness the windshield was the at them. But did we slow up? eerie sneer as he accelerates accent writer the Bumblebee" droned in my size of a movie screen, and Not the brakeless bus from with a roar to nothing short mind like background music we didn't miss a single Hades. of the speed of sound. At this ither I was in a very bad as The Maniac Behind The swerve. Our asthmatic shut­All too soon I was in the point, you can be sure he 3-D film or in a runaway Wheel zipped his Big Bad Bus tlebus wheezed and gasped as uncomfortable position of won't break at all, and your car out of Mr. Toad's Wild from lane to lane, took cor­we caught our breath with being one of those poor only course of action is to Ride in Disney World. As I ners at excessive speeds with every turn of the wheel. pedestrians without the break into a cold sweat and clutched the bar in front of millimeters to spare, and had "Wicky! Wicky!" the American Automatic Right-of­dive for the nearest manhole. me on the coach that whisked a harrowing habit of driving driver cried to three people way. Glancing to the left to Travel in London has us from the airport to our up onto the sidewalk to get who had the unfortunate luck check for oncoming traffic, I indeed been hazardous, for lodgings in London, the blood out of the way. of being caught on the street stepped out into the street, while there is so much to see, drained from my increasingly as our bus barrelled around only to be vehemently beeped to walk down the street with white knuckles. It became Not to knock the driver's the corner. They hesitated, at by a taxi cab driving pell eyes turned upwards rather apparent that our stay in Lon­amazing skill. Squeezing that horrified, IN THE MIDDLE mell straight for me from the than fixed on the demon don would be even more mobile monster through traf­OF THE ROAD. "Do your other direction, with no hint doubledecker bus-bent-on­breathtaking than we ever fic is definitely an art, and he sleeping in bed! You'll get of mercy in its brake pads. In destruction could prove imagined. was a master. Thank good-killed that way!" he shouted fact, the driver floored it with "bloody awful." 
the full intention of giving me However, in keeping with a crash course in pedestrian the "Keep Britain Tidy" cam­
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
P's and Q's. Silly me forgot paign, there are little green that here, oncoming traffic men on many corners of Lon­
"fOIJ OOKT 1\II~K 01\, 'fOO ~~ 
'<OOR DAO 'fllll Dt-.1>. "E'U. "oncomes" from the right. don that live in the cross-walk 
GEl MM> AB:"lllT GEr MilD ~ Even if you do look the lights and help pedestrians US 1)1\J;I~G \)p lltP.'ITER H!Ekl right way, and that oncoming avoid making a mess of 
1\\E. DI!.I~E'NM r 'fiE DIG. 
car seems a mile away, never themselves. Yet even these 
ever think that you can beat aids have not been enough to 
it across that intersection. keep us from dragging each 
When you dash into the other out of the path of the 
street, you make the opening villanous Vauxhalls and mean 
move.of the British driver's Mercedes. About the only 
favorite game: Flatten the thing we haven't been in dan­
Fool. When you break into a ger of being hit by here are 
run, his face breaks into an the Royal Mail trucks . 
.... 
l
Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
The Observer page 11 I I 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Matt ''Schmear· Gallagher for VP 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
Typing. Cell Pet at 271-8116. Located 2 mi. nor1h of Not"' Dame. 
; I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY CROSS SYR. IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE FILM. PLEASE. JEFF X3580 
Found: Kodak camera on the field after the Pitt game. Call Dave at # 4020. 
HELPII I LOST MY KEYS BEFORE BREAK AND MY ROOMMATE WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T FINO THEM SOON IF YOU HAVE FOUND A SET OF KEYS WITH 139 ON THE DORM KEYS. PLEASE CALL ME AT # 4205--­THANKS 
Lostl Keys on a Notre Dame key ring Lost in Lewis Hall October 14. If found call Julie at 4143 
FOUNDII! One jean jacket! It was left in our room on October 14. If you are mis­sing a jacket call Julie or Lenore at # 2198 to ide~tify or stop by 208 Lewis. 
........•....................................................... 
Lost: BIG UMBRELLA--Pittsburgh Newsprint. Reward. Call Angela 283 3440 
LOST: HELPII My dad was here for the Air Force game and lost his N.D. Letter Sweater at Sr. Bar If you picked one up by accident please call Colleen at 272-5891 This sweater is really important 
to him and he'd really appreciate anyone who would return n. Thanks 
LOST GOLD ST. CHRISTOPHER MEDAL. HAS GREAT SENTAMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL3223. DAVE. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN INCROSS AT THE ROCK IN THE GYM ON 1(}25. IF FOUND CALL JEFF AT 1504. PER­SONAL VALUE-REWARD! 
LOST: CALCULATOR Would the guy who I loaned my calculator to on Sunday (1Q.23) in the Library (2nd floor) please call me. x3885. 
LOST:BUNCH OF KEYS AROUND NO POST OFFICE. PLEASE CALL JULI 239-6335. 
LOST IN THE HUDDLE BROWN LEATHER PURSE. WARNING: MY CREDIT IS NO GOODI PLEASE RETURN ANYTHING YOU CAN"T USE. CALL LISA AT 239-5474 OR 288-8733. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
LOST: Light-brown teddy-bear w' green ribbon on 1(}29 at Carroll Haunted Housa; responds to "Cookie";very san­timental,call 4666 
LOST -Seiko watch before Oct. break. REWARD. Jeff at 3151. 
LOST: GOLD BRACELET IN ROOM 6, O'SHAG OR NORTH DINING HALL ON THURSDAY, OCT. 27. CALL ANITA AT 4953. 
HELPI Someone picked up my new L.L. Bean Flying TIQ8r leather jacket during the Halloween party at Senior Bar Sat. night. Any info call Mike at 287-5502 no questions asked. Please return H-H was my only warm jacket. 
Lost While experiencing an incredibly in­tensa drunken stupor, I lost my keys somewhere between Flanner and Walsh­1think. They are easily identifiable-4 keys and a brass Alrican God. REWARD. John x1474 
LOST: Ruby ring on South Quad.lffound, please call 2731 and ask for Katie. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 21t­291-7153. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N BI'Mkfllat luat 20 mine. from NO. ldeoll for al NO activities. Raa«va now. 818-471-5111. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST wbath. Mine. to cempua. Avail. for Rice I Penn St. 2n­
1898. 
WANTED 
HIRING! Government )oba-your a..... $15,()()0-$68,000. Cell (602) 83&-8885, Ext. 6262. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN CANCUN! Become a College Tours rep­resentative on your campus and get a free trip. Nothing to buy-we provide everything you need. It's easy! Call 1­80Q-727 -0005 
6 PENN STATE GA RICK 4235 
RIDERS NEEDED TO PITISBURGH EXITS LEAVE: FRI,1V4,1:30 RETURN SUN, 11t6,NIGHT 1935 
NEEDED NO MIAMI T SHIRTS ticket front, CBS logo back or any thing else available. Matt 3479 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT. for only$90.00 a month,starting right now.Call-3476. 
BAE Computer naeda ,...aponalble stu­dent to "'PreMnt our computer. In­centive bonua plan. lnt.,....ted per­sona ple..e ...,d r..ume to 3583 Ryder Street, Santa Clara, CA 95051. 
FOR SALE 
APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­cluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­plewor1<s word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283­3481. 
Ia It True You can Buy Jeepa lor $44 through the U.S. go_,ment? Gat the facta today! Cell 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
1978 AMC Concord 2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mich tires new battery and brakes, excellent for student. Good car. Call Chris 294-4288 
RICE WEEKEND Rooms available nex1 to campus JAMISON INN (219) 2n-9682 
Computerized TYPEWRITER. Excellent condition. 2996 
TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALE! TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS PRE-STRUNG 
FOR $140-NICK# 1423 
Technics Turntable SL-BD2 For Sale­SJay •1910 
TICKETS 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-8306 
WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 will pay CA$h ... call Frank or Rob-3137 
I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. 
I have 2 Rice GA's, willing to trade them plus $$$ for 2 Penn ST GA's. Call Stacy at x3n1 
HEY! NEED THREE TICKETS TO PENN STATE CALL CHRIS AT 1644 
NEED 2 (OR 4) RICE GA'S CALL WENDY X1511 $$$ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-PLEASE CALL SHEILA-271-9365 
NEED PENN GA'S & 1 RICE STUD X­3100 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S PLEASEIII WILL PAY$$ 239-7323 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S I Preferably together. Call Sharon at 288-2314. 
Need Penn St. GAs-uncle's company will pay top dollar for tix. Call Mike 3540. 
I NEED 1 OR 2 PENN ST TIX call Oeborsh 3706 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS! NOONE WILL PAY MOREl CALL 283-4n2 
4 PENN GA'S NEEDEOII WILL PAY ANY AM0UNT WITHIN REASON. CALL TIM 1616 OR BRUCE 313-628-4300 8-5p.m. 
CASH CASH CASH I Need 2 Rice GA's or my mom will kill me. Call Dan at 3365. 
Muffin is coming to NO finally but she needs a ticket for PENN STATE (enher GA or student) Please call Beth x1264. 
NEED: 2 RICE GA'S 
I NEED 2 RICE GA'S MIKE 4113 
2 RICE STU/2 PENN STU CALL ROB-277 -9438 
I need PENN ST. stud tix-call 3808 
NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S JOE X1728 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 8 pen state tix Please call 4495! 
HELP MEl I NEED 1 PENN TICKET! PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 
NEED RICE, P-ST GA TIX. ALSO NEED 
A. F. PROGRAM. CHRIS x1073 
BIG BUCKS AND NO WHAMMIES I I NEED 1 RICE ST. TICKET SO GIVE ME A CALL AND LEAVE A MSSG KEVIN# 271.0359 
HELP!! OUR PARENTS FINALLY LET US GO TO THE USC GAME AND NOW ALL WE NEED IS AT LEAST 4 TIX TO THE GAMEl CALL JULIE AT 4351 OR AMY 271-9885 
PARENTS COMING. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA' PLUS TWO GA'S FOR FRIENDS. DO NOT RUIN OUR REUNION. x23n JEFF. 
WANTED: 2 RICE GA'S CALL MIKE X2261 
SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX MONEY MONEY $$MONEY MONEY Call Shana at X2691, offer her 2 Rice tickets and listen to what she'll offer you! 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S-DAN x4115 
I NEED 1 RICE STUD TIC.-DAN x4115 
we need PENN TIX!! 2 GA's would be really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call waller x2151 or michelle x2844 
PENN ST. TIX NEEDED NEED GAa end STUDENT TIX call CHRIS or PAT 2053 or KAY 4853 
I NEED 2 RICE GA's PREFERABLY TO­GETHER. CALL 3023 OR 2999. 
Pl.... give me Penn St. GA'st Okay, I'll pay good money for them, but I really need 2 GA's. Call Kathleen at 283-4220. 
WANTED: tix for Rice and Penn State games. You may call collect at (312 893­3413. Thanks. 
I NEED 8 PENN STATE TICKS WILL 
PAY TOP$$$ CALL 271-0904 
NEEDED! 3 PENN STATE STUD. OR GA (RICE STUD. TIC FOR SALE OR TRADE) JIM 1935 
I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS IN A BIG BAD WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF THEM. THArS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DON'T DELAY -CALL TODAY I!! 
My dad is a staunch N.D. supporter who has seen N.D. edged out at P.S.U. the last two games. I want him to see us crush !hem, can you help me? I need 2 GA's or 1 GA and 1 stud. Call me at 4935. 
Need 4 RICE GA & 1 PENN ST Stud or GA. Call Maurine 2615. 
I need 4 Rice GA's. $$$ Call John at 2371 
db desperately desires 2 penn state ga's x2352 or x2375 
I need many Penn St. GA's! Call Pat x1535 
NEED PENNST TICKETS CALL MIKE­1628 
HELPII Family coming to the PENN ST game. I need 2 GA's and 2 Student !ix. Mar1< x1937. 
Geraldo needs 6 GA's for 6 friends for the RICE game on the eve of the 6th. HE also needs 2 stud tix for the altar boys. call SARAH X3736. 
My parents would love to see the # 1 IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. 
I really,really,really need 3 RICE GA's a whole lot. TOM 287-6053 Tell my stupid roomates to take a message ~ I'm not there. 
C'MONII KNOW I CAN SCROUNGE UP ABOUT 8 STD. TIX FOR THAT HOLOCAUSTAL RICE GAME CALL NICK AT 3247 
I need Penn St. GA's ... TOP $$$ GUARANTEED! Call Andy, 1930. 
I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S SO THAT THE NmANY LIONS CAN 
LOSE TWO MORE DIE-HARD FANS. CALL X4852 
for sale: 1 Rice, 1 Penn St student ticket. best offer 289-2527 
I NEED 2 RICE GA'S.PLEASE HELPI CALL CELESTE AT 2n-3216 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
PLAIN AND SIMPLE. I NEED RICE TIX. LOU 289-4315 
I NEED Penn State stu. tix. $$$ call John # 1806 
5 Rice stud. tix needed 4521-Pat 
HELPI I need 2 Rice GAs desperately Call Tina at x4846 
NEED 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. TIK FOR RICE. CALL 283-4508 
BADLY in need of 9 Penn State tix 5 stud 4 GA call 1767 evenings 
UB40 tic for Fri. concert includes bus ride # 1478-ask for Doug 
Need 2 Penn St. tics-GAs or studs name $$-call Doug # 1478 
Need Two Penn. G.A. 's and will pay un­limited green stuff Call 232-9541 and leave message 
NEED 1 STUD & 4 GAs(PENN ST) Melissa x2707 
$$ HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUD. TIX FOR RICE GAME. LYNN SMC-5132 
NO-USC TRIP TIX FOR SALE 277-4271 
NEED USC TIX 2n-4271 
PERSONALS t 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-Whne Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741­1338 . 
NO HOCKEY VS. MICHIGAN­DEARBORN, FRIDAY NIGHT 7:30. 
CLUB 23. Try the pool table or English darts. Open at 4 p.m. 
$$$$$ PENN STATE TIX WANTED GA OR STUD TIX CALL 234-1 048 .... jen. 
IS ANYBODY GOING TO OAYTON THIS WEEKEND, NEXT WEEKEND, OR ANY WEEK-HENO? WILL PAY $. CALL MARY 284-5128 OR 5117 
SOPHOMORE BARN DANCE!! FRIDAY, NOV 411 BONFIRES! OJ! HOT CHOCOLATE! tics on sale In class office In LaFor­tune, Nov 1-3 btw 3-5 $5 per peraon COME JOIN THE FUN!! 
Want to sail your NO-USC game trip package? Call Molly X1321. 
NEED RIDE-BAY CITY-NOV 5 PAT GREEN 1440 
QUEST FOR THE CROWN Oct. 31-Nov.2 
A week-long adventure to capture the glory for your dorml OCT.31-NOV.2 
Wed, Nov.2 Quest for the Crown VARI­ETY SHOW 7pm-9pm theodore's Start getting an original act together for points for your dorm (talk to your hall president for details) 
games, contests,toumaments,movies, dances,par1iesllll QUEST FOR THE CROWN Mon, Oc\.31-Fri, Nov.4 
lrSCOMINGIII 
DON'T MISS ITII LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES! 
CARNIVAL OF CAREERS V 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3RO, 3-6 
P.M. ST. MARY'S ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
SCOTI FESLER-Well my friend, today's the big day-You're old! Don't do too much TOOTING today and please, take a break from the ISP. HAPPY BIRTHDYI Love, The Heller from Howard. P.S. For ·the sake of aii-Keap your pants onl 
Is anyone driving to or near Milwaukee on 1V4 and back 1116, I NEED a ride. Will share expenses. Please call Chris at x2923. 
Rita Pattaraon Are you still out there?! still want to meet you and I have not seen you since before the Pitt garnell Please leave me a per­sonal soon. I await your raplyl 
Your edrnlnH" PAX CHRISTI-NOTRE DAME will hold a silent proteslklemonstration in front of STEPAN CENTER at 1:30 TUESDAY before George Bush's arrival. All whoop­pose the policies of the Reagan-Bush Administration are invHed to participate. 
THE SAINT EDWARD'S HALL PLAYERS WILL BE HOLDING OPEN AUDITIONS FOR AGATHA CHRISTIE'S... TEN LITILE INDIANS AUDITIONS WILL BE ON WED AT 4 AND ON THURS AT 71N THE ST. ED'S PARTY ROOM. ALL ARE WELCOME! YOU ONLY HAVE TO BE THERE FOR ONE OF THE TWO TIMES. FOR MORE INFO CALL DUANE AT # 1881 OR LOWELL AT# 1899 
RICE WIN THIS SATURDAY??? 
A..ci:osii.i3A"i.1.Ei?????.......................... 
NOWAYIIIIIIIIIIII 
DONATE YOUR RICE TIX TO CSC TODAY! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRIS CARROLL DO NOT DO ANYTHING I WOULD NOT DOl 
................................................................ 
Call 3169 and wish Chris Carroll a happy birthday 
ciiliis..c.AiiR.oL:.::..iiA.PPv...siRriioAv 
CHRIS CARROLL HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
CC I Love You! 
;;;;;~..i<:o:·F~~~~~,................................... 
Congratulations on mashing wn the man of your dreams... -Jim G. & Mike S. 
TO THE FARLEYITE IN THE CHAPEL LATE SATURDAY NIGHT-I AM PRAYING FOR YOUI 
TO THE MOST RAD OF ALLI THANK 
YOU FOR A MEMORABLE & TFCF 
BIRTHDAY WEEKEND. YOU ARE A 
WONDERFUL AND SPECIAL FRIEND 
WHO CONTINUES TO WIN MORE AND 
MORE OF MY HEART. DON"T WORRY, 
THERE IS LOTS MORE TO COME. 
.....ocs 
P.S. I SURE HOPE YOU READ THIS ON YOUR OWN! I HATE IT WHEN SOMEONE HAS TO POINT IT OUT TO 
YOU. VIC SAYS HI, TOO 
··············································•················· 
YO, SUSAN SCANLON ... YEA, YOU! 
SHE FILLS OUR DULL LIVES WITH RAPS, PUNS, LAUGHTER 'A PLENTY. SO WISH HER A GOOD ONE; THE OLD LADY IS TWENTY! WE LOVE YOU, YOUR B.P. BUDDIES 
WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? 
WHAT DO THEY DO? 
COME SEE ... EXPO ROMA'88 
DIANE TRACY: You are one of the most incredible looking girls that I have ever seen! P.S. Your smile is awesome,too. signed, An Admirer 
The Reality Liberation Front is pleased to announce the successful coup d'etat of the N D zeitgeist. Details will be forthcoming. Thank you and have a nice day. 
Top ten entries to the contest: "Guess what Harry & John's costumes are sup­posed to be." 10. Well-dressed gigolos. 
9. Rising yuppies in their morning coats. 
8. Yuppie pimps ready for an evening of entertainment. 
7. Men ...Out pants ready to "wor1<" 
6. T ourguides of the executive bathrooms. 5. Mannequins not fully prapared. 
4. Private eyes looking for clues. 
3. Mike Douglas clones from "Fatal "Attraction." 
2. Aliens who took human form but 
only read half of GO magazine upside down. 
1. Two business executives •caught with their pants down." 
MARK-(My Gov'MR major who aspires to be a lawyer.) I wrote you a poem-"Ode to a Stranger." Give me a call at SMC­5256. MARY-(Your ChernMath major who is pretty talented.) 
Quotes kom the Arne is Lame SYR 10.Just one more picture 9. I'm getting a drink 8. Erin, just find your doormat 7. We should do this more often 6. Mo ... Oance wnh the coke machine 5. My feet hurt dertin' 4. But MY cup is empty 
3. Uz and Chris, ft's 2arn 2. Ame, tum your camera around 1. Let's go slow in casa I fall 
See Lame drink... See Lame dance ... See Lame fall... DON'T BE LAMEIII 
Ame, we rip on you ... becauee you were rippedll AME, WE LOVE YOUIII 
Warren, You owe me a lntte money! Larny Amy was out on Fridaylll 
Dear Beau: Thanks for the for the ffowers 
and a GREAT time. Love Your Barefoot Belle from Badin Wnh a Rosa to her name 
GLOW IN THE DARK NO T-8HIRTSI For sale in St. Ed's rooms 125 and 126. Call nm at x1783. Greet Christmas Giltsll 
NEED RIDE to Mpls., MN for 1V~11t6 will pay ex­penses. call nm 4788 I need a ride to Tampa area. FLA an~me the week of 1 1119-11126. Call Dave 2n. 0854 
James Dean James Dean James Dean Stop by !he LaFortune Ticket Sales from 12-3 daily and meet James Dean James Dean James Dean James Dean 
HAPPY B-DAY -John Twohy(2e) ... and Andre too ... from the guys in 2CD 
NEEDED: 2 XL T-SHIRTS "CATHOLICS VS CONVICTS" CALL 232-2051 EXT. 240. 
TO THE BLOND GIRL WHO I SAW GET CLOSED OUT OF THE COMMONS LATE SAT NIGHT: WHO ARE YOU? 
laUI'II, 
Thank• for a g,....t time In Chlcego, I,....,ly do feel -oil.La!'a hang out at the oaala mo... often. 
TO THE GIRL IN THE PURPLE SWEATER AND GREEN COAT WHO ATE LUNCH IN THE HUDDLE FRIDAY AFTERNOON, HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO MAKE A NEW FRIEND? KEN 2n­
4587 
THANKS SMC VOLLEYBALL TEAM! THIS ROOKIE THINKS WE'RE AWESOME LINKS IN A CHAIN THAT CAN"T BE BROKEN. LOVE JENNIFER 
KELLY F. & JEN G., 
1
THEY'RE DENSE & WE'RE AWESOME! JENNY 
JOHN "I'M A PROFESSIONAL MAS­SEUR• McMAHON, JIM "IrS MY BIRTHDAY CAN I DRIVE YOUR BMW" GRECO, BRI-GUY •t DON"T KNOW WHY CHILDREN AND ANIMALS FLOCK TO ME" WOOD, AND MIKE "I 
CAN THINK UP GREAT GESTURES FOR EROTIC· THUMPER" SEFRANSKY: HERE'S TO ALL THE FUN WE'VE HAD THIS YEAR AND WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE. WE'LL BE WAS­TING AWAY IN MARGARITAVILLE AFTER NO'S VICTORY AND KATE'S MOM'S TAILGATER. REMEMBER LINDA'S SNORTS! PS: DON"T ASK. WE LOVE YOU. 
IrS MY PSYCHO YEAR. 
THINK BLACK-EVERY DAY IS HALLO­WEEN 
LIZARD LIPS SWING THOSE HIPS CHUCK THOSE CHIPS AND CRACK THAT WHIP 
PEOPLE WHO SNIFF UP LINT DON'T LIKE IGUANAS 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE JR. HOEDOWN 1 O."Everyone keep their eyes peeled 
for a high-frequency tower." 9."Guys, we're in big trouble... we're lost and we're all under 21." 8."Rich, stop the car, I'm going to be sick." 7."Row, row, row your boat..." 6."Pat, what are you doing?• 
•t•m thinking." 5."Save your cans!" 4."Sir, do you know where the barn is?• 3."Gee Pat, I wish you were on tha plane too." 2."1 got chips ... ANO DIPIIr 1."Are you 
sure you know where you're going Katie?" 
Mike, Bill, Rich, Pa~ and Gary-Thanks for a memorable evening! Love, Bridget, Katie, and PJ 
NO-USC TRIP TIX FOR SALE 2n-4271 
NEED USC TIX 2n-4271 
SMC BUSINESS CLUB PRESENTS WALL STREET NOV 1-3 IN CARROLL AUO 9&11 ONLY $1. 
GREED IS GOOD. see Wall Street Nov 1-3 SMC Carroll Aud. 9111 $1 
Lunch is for sissies. See Wall Street Nov 1-3 Carroll Aud SMC 9111 $1 Sponsored by SMC Business Clubs 
Mike: Ellipses? 
GEORGE MARSHALL HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM YOUR FOUR FAVORITE FARLEYITESIII 
VIVE LA FRANCE 
SENIOR X-MAS FORMAL SENIOR X-MAS FORMAL SENIOR X-MAS FORMAL 
SENIOR X-MAS FORMAL SENIOR X-MAS FORMAL 
SENIOR X-MAS FORMAL FRIDAY, DEC. 2 WATCH FOR DETAILS 
LOST at the Miami game-A silver St. Christopher's metal wnh initials on back. Call x2090, pleasa. 
I I I 
r-----------.-------------------------------------------------~---------------------~ ----------------------~--------­
page 12 
ND women's soccer drops two matches 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
It was a disappointing weekend for Notre Dame wo­men's soccer. The team traveled to Dayton and dropped both its games in a four-team tournament that in­cluded Dayton, Xavier and Wright State. 
Dayton totally outplayed the Irish in the first match, win­ning by a score of 6-0. 
"Dayton is the best team we've played all year," said Notre Dame assistant coach Neil Schmidt, who accompa­nied the women on the trip. 
The first half ended at 1-0 and 
Schmidt decided on a tactical 
change, switching to a one-on­
one strategy and taking out the 
sweeper. The idea was to stop 
up the Dayton offense and free 
the Irish front line to generate 
a counterattack of its own. It 
had the opposite effect. 
"They jumped on us pretty quick," said Schmidt. "We've never allowed more than two goals a game all season and it was a new experience for us. We didn't know how to react. We didn't play to our poten­tial." 
Schmidt said the difference 
between the two teams was a 
matter of experience. 
"Dayton has played a lot of good Division I teams," said Schmidt. "In our first year, we lack that experience against top talent. We are definitely going to upgrade our schedule next year. We've learned a 
lot." 
Against Xavier, Notre Dame played a more evenly matched game, but was unable to pull out a victory. 
"I thought we should have won," said Schmidt. 
Xavier scored early in the match, but Joy Sisolak came back to tie it . up for the Irish, scoring her team's only goal of the tournament. 
The game went into overtime when Notre Dame keeper Kelly McCrystal blocked a Xavier penalty shot with no time left. The Irish proved unable to carry the momentum into over­time, however, and lost the match on what Schmidt termed a "questionable goal." Schmidt thought that Xavier may have been offsides when the goal was scored. 
"We played better in the second half against Xavier," he said. "But we were still tentative after Dayton. We started to play our type of game. It was just a case of missed opportunities." 
Schmidt cited the play of 
K.T. Sullivan, Kelly Hanratty and Debbie Ho as being bright spots in the otherwise un­remarkable tournament. 
"It was a valuable experi­ence and it will show up for us down the road," he said. 
Notre Dame will take its 13­5-1 record to Michigan State on Friday to play the final game of its first varsity season. 
"Three weeks ago, Michigan State was ranked in the top 20,' said Schmidt. "How well we do all depends on our state of 
mind." 
The Observer Tuesday, November 1 , 1988 
Women's C. C. places second in MCC meet 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team finished second at theMidwestern Col­legiate Conference Cham­pionships, losing out on first place by only two points. 
Going into the meet, the Irish runners knew that Dayton was the team to beat. They came close, but the final score showed that Dayton had the winning edge, 30-32. 
Notre Dame took four spots in the top ten, led by Lucy Nusrala, who took second with a time of 18:32, proving once again that she can be counted on to finish high for the team. Captain Theresa Rice was six seconds behind Nusrala in third, and Linda Filar was seventh. Rounding out the scoring for the Irish were Terese Lemanski (ninth) and Kevaleen Ryan (eleventh) . 
Dayton's Laura Schweitzer led the way for her team by placing first, recording a time of 17:57 on the 5,000 meter course in Chicago. Her team­mates finished fourth, fifth, sixth and fourteenth, en route to a slim victory over the Irish. 
"I told the team before the race that this would be a dual meet between us and Dayton,'' Coach Tim Connelly said. "To be honest, we should have beaten them." 
Rice said that while the team was disappointed by the close loss, they could still hold their heads up. 
"No one has anything to be ashamed of," she said. "We ran well, but Dayton is a good team." 
Following Dayton and Notre Dame in the standings were Detroit, Butler and Loyola. Evansville and Xavier finished sixth and seventh, respectively. There were seven teams, not nine as originally anticipated. 
There was some contro­versy at the beginning of the race. During the first 100 meters, there was a pile-up, and three Notre Dame run­ners fell. The officials didn't call the start back. 
"That really hurt us," said Coach Connelly. "Linda Filar and Terese Lemanski were two of the runners who fell, and they might have done bet­ter. I think that Linda could have been in the top five." 
Connelly was happy with the performances of the first five runners for the Irish, which he offered as a positive aspect of the disappointing second place finish. 
.-------------------------------------------------------------~ ------·-­
Future MIS/Co!Rorate Executives 
SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
U 
he rush of adrena­line. The surge of excitement. The flash of inspira­
tion. Familiar feelings to 
talented IS professionals 
at The Travelers. And to 
the promising graduates 
who'll join us this year. 
You've discovered 
these feelings in your aca­
demic work. Recognized 
them in the elegance of 
advanced technology. 
And now you can share in them at The 
Travelers, where the support is 
stronger, the environment more 
sophisticated and the applications 
more challenging. 
As a distinguished college graduate 
with an Information Science-related 
background, you now have a difficult 
decisiOn to make about your future. 
That's why we created ACCENT. A 
fast-paced, competitive program. 
Offering a comprehensive foundation 
in Information Systems concepts and 
practices, finanCial services concepts 
and principles of management -lead­
ing to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced IS 
environments in the financial services 
industry-including the largest IMS 
shop, 14 IBM mainframes and a 30,000 
terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop tfiere. We've recently installed over 25,000 IBM PCs, inte­grated the latest 4th generation lan­guages, and we're developing our future leaders with ACCENT. 

If you have a degree in business, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and softwar.e, and so~e pro­
11 ~~~~:~1h:~~~~~~:~ 
dentials for ACCENT. If you're a highly­motivated person, an 
independent worker, and an innova­. tive thinker, you have the right chemis­try for ACCENT. 
Now make the right move. To The Travelers' ACCENT program. Where you'll find varied and valuable learning experiences. A supportive human environment and a sophisticated tech­nical one. And where you'll find plenty of opportunities to help move you ahead. 
You'll also receive a competitive sal­ary, complete benefits and even an IBM PS/2 to take home with you. Plus gen­erous relocation assistance to our Hart­ford, Connecticut home office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented IS-oriented graduate, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration shared by all. 
Sign up immediately to interview with a Travelers' recruiter on Novem-• ber 15th or 16th. Or, send your resume to: Gail Greenier, The Travelers Com­panies, 30-CR, CN88, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
TheTravelerST 
You're better off under the Umbrella:~' 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
, 
_________...,..____________________________________ 
Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Former split end Terrell finds home in secondary 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Pat Terrell has worn many hats during his football career. 
A quarterback and receiver in high school, Terrell has jumped from one side of scrim­mage to the other three times since arriving at Notre Dame. 
A receiver-turned-defensive back-turned receiver again, the 6-0 junior was switched to the secondary once again last spring and has found his niche, earning a starting spot at free safety in the last four games. 
"I was a little hesitant about making another change this late in my career," said Ter­rell. "But coaches really can see talent where its best, and I guess if I hadn't made that change from quarterback to receiver in high school I would never be here. 
"Coach Holtz told me we needed help in the secondary as far as depth is concerned," "I was fortunate to have a continued Terrell, "and I'm a great game," said Terrell, team-oriented person so I was "but now you just have to put ready to do that." that out of your mind. It was a 
Terrell was ready, too, when big confidence-builder for me. Miami's Steve Walsh threw the I felt comfortable out there. ball his way on Oct. 15. In his That's all it takes to be a good second defensive start, Terrell football player--to know what intercepted a second-quarter you're doing and have confi­pass and returned it 60 yards dence in what you're doing. for a touchdown, then knocked "We tried to not look ahead away Walsh's conversion pass to Miami before we played in the game's waning moments them," continued the Grace to seal an Irish 31-30 upset. Hall junior, "and we're trying 
-----------------------------------__,.to not look back at that game 
Immediate openings for 1988/89 Graduates Engineering, Computer Science (BS/MS) 
When you start your career, there's nothinglike initial success. 

-
-
--

~ 
-
' ® 
Wednesday, November 9 
IBM INFORMATION DAY 
Your future in technology could be in software development or engineering. 
If you're ready to start a successful career in one of these creative areas of information tech­nology, come meet our representqtives at an informal briefing, and find out mort! about our current openings. Please bring 4 copies of your resume and, if available, your transcript. 
An equal opportunity employer. U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and intending cititens under the 19861mmigration Reform and Control Act only. 
November 
9 
La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 12:00 noon-5pm 
(Stop by anytime) 
those three schools," recalled Terrell. "I thought personally that I would get stuck in the state, but there's nothing wrong with that--they're all good programs. 
"But I came up here," con­tinued Terrell, "and liked how everything was--the academics and athletics combined. I know you hear that from so many people but you see its really true after visiting other schools. Reggie Ward and Timmy Brown were my hosts when I visited. I just found that the players here were more compatible with me rather than another place where I may have to change to fit in." 
As the starting split end for five games last season Terrell played alongside Brown but caught only two passes--for a total of 63 yards. 
"I was the other receiver," said Terrell. "I would see a lot of passes going over my head. It was frustrating at first but when you have the best player in the nation on your team, you've got to get him the ball." 
The football is not the only 
thing going over Terrell's head 
that he notices--he is a self­
proclaimed "aviation freak." 
"When I was a wide receiver, 
that was probably one of my 
problems," joked Terrell. "I 
dropped a lot of passes because 
the airport planes fly right over 
the practice field all the time 
and I probably looked at the 
planes instead of the ball. 
"I like to fly," continued Ter­rell. "I go up in Cessna 172s with friends of my Dad over the summer. I don't have my license yet though-I'm working on it." 
The pilots license will have to wait for a while though. Ter­rell is having enough high­flying fun of his own, denying opponents' aerial efforts for the top-ranked Irish. 

now. I'm sure I'll go home and break out the tape after the season is over." 
There could be a lot more to put on the highlight film for the 8-0 Irish by the time this season is over. Notre Dame jumped into the top spot in the AP col­lege football poll yesterday fol­lowing UCLA's loss last weekend. 
"It's a great place (No. 1) to be," smiled Terrell, "but we know that it really doesn't mat­ter too much until the end of the season. Our job is to just keep winning, and the polls and bowls will take care of them­selves. 
"As far as being No. 1 during the season is concerned," con­tinued Terrell, "in some ways it works against a team rather than working for it because. it makes every game even more difficult. Everybody wants a piece of the so-called No. 1 team in the nation." 
Terrell came to Notre Dame out of Lakewood High School in St. Petersburg, Fla., sur­rounded by the Florida football triumverate of Florida State, Florida and Miami. After leaving the warmth of home to head for a chilly South B~pd in mid-January, he, like many, was impressed with the people, not weather. 
"It was cold and I was from Florida. I had been looking at 
UNITED WAY DORM DRIVES 
The dorm with the greatest percentage participation wins a VCR for the dorm. 


Competition begins: October 31 ends: November 11 
sponsored by: Student Government 

The Observer
page 14 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A sportswriters meeting will be held Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the office of The Ob­server in the third floor of LaFortune. Any questions should be directed to Marty Strasen at 283-1471 or 239-5303. -The Observer 
Basketball season tickets will be distributed this week to only those students who applied earlier for tickets, continuing with juniors today. On Friday, those students who did not apply but still want tickets can wait in line for the 2,000 remaining season tickets. -The Observer 
The USF&G Flag Football Drive to Cure Paralysis is scheduled for Friday, Nov. 11 through Sunday, Nov.13. The entry deadline is Monday, Nov. 7. Teams may register at Non-Varsity. Call 239-6100 for more details. 
-The Observer 
WVFI-640AMwillair''SpeakingofSports'' tonight from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. Join Greg Guf­fey, Jamey Rappis and Vic Lombardi as they preview the upcoming NBA season. Calls are welcome at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club had Kerry Sheedy win a first and second place and earn the title of high point rider at last Sun­day's competition at Purdue. All members are reminded to attend the meeting tonight at 8:30 in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The club will travel to the University of Michigan this weekend for the Area A elimina­tions for the prestigious Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold a meeting at 8:30p.m. on Tuesday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. All those planning to try out for the team or planning to go to Steamboat must attend. Bring money from turtlenecks and the temaninder of the Steam­boat money ($240). Those who can not make it to the meeting should call Woodsy at 288­5423. -The Observer 
Lacrosse 
Rockne Memorial hours from fall break to spring break have the building open from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. from Monday to Thursday, from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Friday and from 10 
a.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Recreational swimming hours are from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., 12 noon to 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. to 11 
p.m. on Monday to Friday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday and 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7:30p.m. to 11 p.m. on Sunday. Fr. Lange weight room (302) hours are 3 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. on Monday to Friday and 12 noon to 9 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. -The Ob­server 
The NO Sailing Club traveled to the University of Toledo this past weekend to com­pete in a regatta held on Lake Erie. Pete Wall with crew Chris Blum placed fourth in A divi­sion, while Paige Cooper with crew Betsy Lewis placed third in B division. -The Obser­ver 
lrishOutdoorsisholdinganorganizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for the spring semester will be discussed. Questions should be directed to Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer. 
The Calgary Flames downed the Chicago Blackhawks 6-3 in National Hockey League action Monday. -The Observer 
Eric Dickerson rushed for 159 yards to go over 1,000 yards for an NFL record-tying sixth consecutive season and scored a career­high four touchdowns as the Indianapolis Colts stunned the Denver Broncos 55-23 in the first Monday Night Football game at the Hoosier Dome. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer of­fices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Tuesday, November 1, 1988 
Rugby season ends with win over Wildcats 
The Rugby Club ended its seven-game fall season with an 18-12 victory over Northwestern last weekend in Evanston, Ill. Senior Mike Ryan scored twice for a much­improved Irish squad. 
"We improved steadily over the course of the season," 
said Club President Jim Lammers, "even though our 
season was plagued by injuries." 
Earlier in the season, the Rugby Club participated in the Indiana Union Rugby Tournament. Notre Dame took a fourth-place finish in the eight-team tournament. A third­place finish was in Notre Dame's grasp until the Irish decided to play the second string for experience in the 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 

final game. 
"Experience is essential for the upcoming spring season," stated Lammers. 
Mike Ryan, John Monohan and Lammers all were voted to the select all-tournament team, which consisted of players from numerous Indiana colleges. These three players represented Indiana in a tournament that included teams from many Midwestern states. 
The Rugby Club will hold tryouts and training for the Spring season sometime in February. 
Squash Club continued its winning ways this weekend with two outstanding wins at the Joyce ACC. 
In the first match-up, the Irish beat up the University of Miami of Ohio 5-2. In the second, they cruised 3-1 against the Fort Wayne Squash Club. 
Graduate student Marcus Knipp won both his games impressively, and the rest of the team followed with nearly the same results. 
. ~~o<Q"< 
n:e .coll~gc or ~ciCI1CC I 
D1siu1gLllSl1ecl Scl1olc.lr · LecttJre Series 
Thursday Noven1bcr 3 
Engineering Aud. 
8:00 and IO:OO 
Zimmerman said his team's trip was done to improve lacrosse in the Midwest and to 
$2.00
give Hopkins players a glance at another school with a rich 
sports tradition. 
~-~~il!Mifj
"We love to see lacrose be­come established here in the 
Sleeping Beauty 
FRIDAY, NOV·EMBER 4 Holy Grail
Midwest because of its great schools," Zimmerman said. ... "And it was great to see the 
11
beautiful campus and tradition 
~~~~·r·;;~-·
i 
1/
out here. I've always heard of 
... I I ·;·· I·
the Golden Dome and seen foot­ball games on t.v., but that foot­
ball stadium was nothing like ••••••••••••••••llilllllli-lllliliilliiiiilil.illiilliilliil-liiil.•••••••••••••••l
I imagined." 
------------·---------------------------------------------------~ 
_Tu_e_s_d_ay~,_N_o_v_e_m_b_er_1_,_1_9_s_s__________________________________~T~h~e~O~b~se~~~e~r_________________________________________________page 15 
CAMPUS 
.. 
8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Social Move­ments and the Democratic Transition in Brazil," by Ruth Cardoso, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
3:30 p.m. Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Effect of Natural Convection on the Spontaneous Ignition of a Coal Pile," by Prof. Vermuri Balakotaiah, University of Houston, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies presents "The Church & Change in El Salvador: A Refugee's Witness," by Dorothea Vasquez, Room 121 Law School. 
7:30 
p.m. Friends of the Library presentation on Eighteenth Century Book Illustration by Laura Fuderer and Mary Frisk, Rare Book Room, Hesburgh Library. 

7:30 
p.m. Sandi Patti concert, JACC, $9.50 and $11.50. 


8 p.m. A presentation on the media department by Leo Bur­nett, University Club. • 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
Fish Bunwich Sliced Ham Veal Parmesan Linguine Roast Turkey Mushroom Omelette 
Broccoli Casserole Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 

Calvin and Hobbes 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 School org. 50 Health club 25 Sal and Sunday 52 Jabber
1 "Thy word is -unto my 28 Swabs 54 Berlin's waking feet" sentiments
31 Was solicitous 6 Pretty girl: Slang 63Aiways
36 Altar 
1 o Baal, for one 
constellation 64 Trick 14 Farr who played 
37 Notable period 65 SillyKlinger 38 Poet Dickinson
15 Sweeten the pot 66 Scarce 16 San-, Riviera 39 Time of day to 67 Gaelic 
resort Browning 68 Pravda founder 17 Herbert's "-44 Shaker's partner 69 "Scots wha haein the Dark" 45 Tango number wi'Wallace18 Clock part 46 Emerger from -":Burns19 Last word at Adam's rib 70Appearchurch 47 Precious violin
20 Warning to 71 Limits sailors 
48 Earth inheritors 23 Orb 49 Mine finds 
DOWN 
1 Not fully closed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Veronica of films 3Among 4 Is lonesome for 5 Annoying 6 Art cult 7 "What's-for 
25 Greek letter 35 Units of force 55 Avocado'sme?" 26"-Witha 40 Left, after taxes shape
8 Collectors' items 
View": Forster 41 Hibernians 56 "If 1-a Rich 9 Spartan slave 27 Imago, when Man"
42 Reverent respect10 Iraqi neighbor young 43 Edo, today 57 Angered
29 Assn.
11 Half: Prefix 48 Ripe 58 To exist, to Cato
30 Adhesive
12 Sign 49 Pried a crate 59 Abound
32 Soul, in Savoie
13 Yearn 51 Peels 60 Zest
33 Columbia or 21 Red Sea country Missouri 53 Lithe 61 Unicorn fish 
22 Big A events 34 Pupil, to Pierre 54 Basil or tarragon 62 Writes 
Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
C)1980 Chronicle Futures 
Distributed by Unlverul Prnl Syndicate 
• 
Bill Watterson 
DAD FINAU..~ SAID HE WJS SICK c:f ARGIJI~G 
WITH ME, AKO FoR ,\U.. ~£.CARED, I Q:)IJlD WATC.It 1'1 UNTIL !'>\'( BRAINS 002Et> 0\lT M'f 
EARS. 
"SO! ... Out bob bob bobbing along again!" 




Fall Fun Week I• 
.-------------------------------~~-------------------­
Sports
page 16 Tuesday, November 1 , 1988 
IS ranked No. 1
Notre Dame • 
UCLA's loss puts Irish at top spot for first time since '81 
Associated Press 
For the first time since 1981, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame are bn top of the college football world. 
And since Monday's Associ­ated Press poll finds Southern California right behind Notre Dame, it sets up what would be the 24th meeting between No. 1 and No.2 when they meet on Nov. 26 in the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
Before that can happen, however, Notre Dame, 8-0, must defeat Rice on Saturday and Penn State on Nov. 19 while Southern Cal, 7-0, has to beat California, Arizona State and UCLA, the former No. 1 team, which slipped to sixth in the wake of Saturday's 34-30 upset at the hands of Washington State. 
Notre Dame, a 22-7 winner over Navy, received 44 of 58 first-place votes and 1,144 of a possible 1,160 points from a nationwide panel of sports writ­ers and sportscasters. The Irish had been second behind UCLA the past two weeks. Southern Cal, a 41-20 winner over Oregon State, received 11 first-place votes and 1,097 points in climbing from third place to second. 
Since the AP poll began in 1936, Notre Dame has won seven national championships, more than any other school. But the Irish haven't won ana­tional championship since 1977 and were last ranked No. 1 after opening the 1981 season with a 27-9 victory over LSU. Notre Dame lost to Michigan 25-7 the following week and hasn't been higher than fourth until two weeks ago. 
Notre Dame became the fourth team to be ranked No. 1 this season. Florida State was No. 1 in the preseason poll but lost its opener to Miami 31-0. Miami became No. 1 for six weeks before losing at Notre Dame 31-30. UCLA was No. 1 for two weeks. 
Although the Top Ten in this week's poll are the same 10 teams as last week, there was considerable shuffling. 
Miami's defending national champions moved from fourth place to third with one first­place vote and 1,041 points fol­lowing a 31-7 triumph over East Carolina. 
West Virginia leaped from seventh to fourth by routing Penn State 51-30. The Moun­taineers, 8-0 for the first time in their 97-year football history, received the other two first­place votes and 950 points. West Virginia was as high as No. 4 twice during the 1983 season. 
Florida State was idle but rose from sixth to fifth with 886 points, followed by UCLA with 847 points. Nebraska dropped from fifth to seventh with 835 points after struggling past Missouri 26-18. 
Oklahoma trounced Kansas 63-14 and held onto eighth place with 739 points, Auburn blanked Florida 16-0 for its 
· third straight shutout and remained No.9 with 715 points and Wyoming is again lOth with 658 points after routing Colorado State 48-14. The Second Ten consists of Arkansas, Oklahoma State, LSU, michigan, South Carolina, Syracuse, Clemson, Alabama, Georgia and a tie for 20th between Brigham Young and Indiana.­
~ ~ * 
fu!J! ~·· r•~.!J!IIP! ~--. 
' .•-~~~~~-~-.. I
L..;.... 
The Qbserver 1 Michael Moran 
The Associated Press Indicated Its agreement to Irish safety George Streeter's "We're number one" proclamation Monday. The Irish were ranked first In the latest AP poll, one spot ahead of future opponent Southern California. 
Powerful Johns Hopkins squad buries ND lacrosse 22-3 
By PETE LaFLEUR than three goals and 15 differ­"I was pleased with how we away--and that really hurt us. build on and when the ball did Sports Writer ent players combined for the 22 played," said Hopkins coach "I feel like I only did half my come down we couldn't get it goals. Don Zimmerman. "We took job," he continued. "I had a lot settled with the attack." 
A sellout crowd of 600 was not "One of the things I told our control of the tempo by con­of saves but the other half of One positive aspect for the enough to inspire the Notre players before the game was trolling ground balls and clears my job is controlling the ball Irish was the physical play of Dame lacrosse team, as the­that Hopkins takes advantage and we really put pressure on and getting it up to the attack. many players. Sophomore Irish fell to perennial power of your mistakes, and that's their goalie. Sometimes I just had trouble midfielder John Capano had Johns Hopkins 22-3 Friday really why they had that kind "But I want to give him keeping the ball in my stick." several crowd-pleasing hits night at the Loftus All-Sports of (scoring) balance," said (Glazier) some credit because A young Irish midfield -­while sophomore defenseman Center. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. we took some shots that I comprised of five freshmen, Eamon "Clifford" McAnaney 
Sophomore attackman Matt Despite an inspired perfor­thought were in and he was three sophomores, and one briefly knocked Hopkins All­Paneta led the Bluejays, who mance by Notre Dame's junior able to turn them back." junior--had problems as ex­American defenseman Dave outshot the Irish 58-9, with goalie Jeff Glazier, Hopkins Glazier came up with 28 pected in controling the ball for Pietramala out of the game. three goals and two assists. used a controlled passing game saves, the most in Irish history, the Irish as they fell behind 13-1 Capano, who scored in the Freshman Jeff Wills and junior and a stingy defense to domi­but often faltered in clearing at halftime. According to Cor­first quarter to give the Irish Jay Clarke added three goals nate in all possession aspects the ball upfield. rigan, the Irish were unable to their first goal, started the each, and freshman Drew of the game. The Bluejays won "I think we may have put get the proper movement second goal in what was pos­Burns scored a goal and four 23 of 29 faceoffs and cleared the Hopkins on too high of a pedes­needed for good shots. sibly the biggest play in a assists. ball out of their zone on all 23 tal and I think in the first half "Their close defense is out­frustrating game for the Irish. 
But the most striking fact of attempts. Hopkins also led you could see we were in­standing and they just didn't let After weaving through the Hopkins point barrage was Notre Dame in ground balls 45-timidated," Glazier said. "We us control the ball at all," Cor­several players, Capano the balanced scoring. No 36 and successfully stopped 15 were throwing passes away--1 rigan said. "We weren't able to Bluejays player scored more of Notre Dame's 33 clears. threw at least eight or nine get any offensive success to see LACROSSE, page 14 
Soccer team bounces back 
Irish whip Penn St., Boston Univ. in Gatorade Classic 
By PETE GEGEN Sternberg and Mark Crowe, his "If we don't do well, then Sports Writer first of the season, put Notre we'll go home with no com­Dame ahead for good. plaints," said Grace. "If we do 
The Notre Dame soccer team In Saturday's game, Boston well, then I think the selection more than made up for lost University, the top-ranked comittee has to give us a hard ground at the Florida team in the New England look. We still don't get the International-Gatorade Classic region, took an early 1-0 lead, respect I feel we've earned." this weekend, pounding Penn but Bruce "Tiger" McCourt The schedule has the final State 3-1 and No. 20 Boston Uni­scored on an assist from Pat home match against versity 5-l to win the title. Murphy at 42:22, and Morris Wisconsin-Green Bay Wednes­
Rebounding from a mid­tallied a minute later just day at 1 p.m., followed by the October slump, the Irish im­before the end of the half. Midwestern Collegiate Confer­proved to 13-3-2 and gave them­In the second half, Morris put ence Tournament at St. Louis selves control of their own the finishing touches on his first this weekend. Notre Dame destiny heading into the final career hat trick with assists probably will be the third seed week of the season. from Joe Sternberg, his lOOth in the tourney, meaning that it 
"We did what we've always and 101st career points at Notre will likely need to beat bothNo. 
done, the ball just bounced our Dame. Murphy added a goal to 4 Saint Louis (a 2-0 winner over 
way," said Notre Dame coach complete the scoring. No. 16 Akron) and No. 10 
Dennis Grace. These two victories have Evansville (a 1-0 winner over In Friday's match against resurrected Notre Dame's No.2 Indiana) to win the tourn­
.. 
Penn State, Randy Morris NCAA tournament bid hopes. ament. 

scored on a rare assist by The team's schedule for the Notre Dame returns to the
The Observer I Rob Regovich Randy Morris (4) and the Notre Dame soccer team got back Into keeper Danny Lyons to give the final week is such that, unlike No. 4 position in this week's the NCAA tournament picture over the weekend with a pair of vic­Irish a 1-0 lead. The Nittany last season, it has a very big Great Lakes region poll. 
Lions tied it on a penalty kick, hand in determining if it gets Evansville is first, followed by 
tories In the Florida lnternatlonai-Gatorade Classic. One of the vic­
but second half goals by Joe the bid. Indiana and Akron. 
tories was a 5-1 triumph over No. 20 Boston University. 





