
Dandruff
IACCENT: The Odd Couple comes to ND Cloudy with a 40 percent chance of morning snow 
showers. High in the upper 
20s. Cloudy tomorrow with a
IVIEWPOINT: Two ways to get involved 
high 20s. 



THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1988VOL. XXI, NO. 73 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Candidates
P.E. blood square off
drive nets for primaries

70 pints 
By NATASHA WILSON Associated Press Staff Reporter 
Democratic presidential con­The Third Annual 
tender Gary Hart pledged on Pasquerilla East blood drive 
Wednesday to get to the bottom recently collected enough 
of allegations concerning ille­blood to supply St. Joseph 
gal contributions to his cam­County for one day, according 
paign, while Republicans Bob to local Blood Bank officials. 
Dole and Jack Kemp feuded The drive, held Tuesday and 
publicly over Social Security. Wednesday in P.E.'s chapel, 
Dole, in Iowa, defended his attracted 102 Notre Dame stu­
1985 support for freezing Social dents who donated a total of 70 
Security cost-of-living in­pints of blood, said Maureen 
creases, while Kemp said the Trubac, blood donor recruit­
two candidates' views on the ment manager of the Central 
retirement system marked "a Blood Bank of the South Bend 
fundamental difference" be­Medical Foundation. 
tween them. Trubac said the blood drives 
In New Hampshrre, mean­sponsored by P.E. and other 
while, Hart faced questions on Notre Dame residence halls 
a new controversy as his rivals have been "an excellent source 
prepared for a minority­of blood" over the past few 
sponsored debate Wednesday years. 
night in Iowa, where the Feb. The blood collected at the 
8 caucuses will provide the first recent P.E. drive will be used 
formal test for the Democrats. in St. Joseph County, which is 
Five of the candidates were in need of all blood types, said 
participating in the debate. Trubac. The county "is doing Tile Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Hart and Tennessee Sen. Al­more open heart surgery so Pasquerilla East freshmen Rachel Hall and Kathy during the third annual Pasquerilla East blood drive. 
bert Gore Jr. were skipping it. 
Pellek trade some of their blood for a bed to rest on Story at left.
see BLOOD, page 3 
see POLITICS, page 3 
Eating disorders reach 'epidemic' proportions 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI can lead to death, he said. This percent below ideal body 
~----------------------------~~---­
Two Notre Dame women share experiences of anorexia, bulimia 
By KATHY SCARBECK woke up at 5 a.m., did aerobics really thin, and I could eat Annie reached that point Annie, like many of her class­for an hour, ran eight miles, anything," she said, "But then during her sophomore year at mates, describes herself as
Staff Reporter 
and then walked to school--all I hit puberty at age 18 and Notre Dame. As a freshman, very competitive, an overac­
Annie, a Notre Dame stu­before 9 a.m. When Jennifer began gaining weight quickly. Annie said she experienced few hiever. So when Annie began dent, hated what she saw in her didn't skip meals, she often I thought I was going to be problems with anorexia. "I felt having problems, she sought to mirror. "You're a cow. Why forced herself to throw up the 'blimpo' by age 20." I had lots of friends who would regain her lost self control by are you eating?" she asked her­food she did eat. During her senior year of get on my case if I did anyth­manipulating her weight. self. But Annie was eating less Annie, an anorexic, and Jen­high school, Annie said she be­ing," she said. She said she limited her food than 500 calories a day and was nifer, a bulimic, are two Notre came nervous about going to The following year, though, intake to 500 calories a day, far almost 40 pounds underweight. Dame students who suffered college. She lost about twenty Annie began having problems. below the 1200 calories recom­When she lay in bed at night, from, and overcame, eating pounds but could still control "I had no major, and I didn't mended for people on diets. she felt as if her ribs were cut­disorders often found among her eating habits. "I was still know what I was doing," she Annie regularly took laxatives ting through her skin. A victim young women. Before enter­at the point where (anorexia) said, "During freshman year, to rid her body of food. 
everyone is confused. But by
of anorexia nervosa, Annie was ing Notre Dame, Annie (not her didn't necessarily have to hap­She exercised frequently, slowly starving herself. real name) had her first expe­pen, but you can reach a point sophomore year I thought running in the mornings and 
where you can't control it everyone had got it all together 
Jennifer was also under­rience with anorexia. weight. During high school she "In high school I was always anymore." but me." see ANNIE, page 4 
News Editor rarely occurs, however. weight, said Rita Donley, staff Although 90 percent of psychologist at the University 
The eating disorders, anorexics and bulimics are wo­Counseling Center. anorexia nervosa and bulimia, men, Donley said the disorders Some anorexics lose their are "epidemics" on college are "growing among men, es­sexual drive and the menstrual campuses including Notre pecially wrestlers and gym­period is disrupted in female Dame and Saint Mary's, said nasts, who need to keep their patients, she said. In men, Dirk Miller, director of the weight down." anorexia can lead to im­HOPE program at Memorial Anorexic patients, primarily potence. Hospital of South Bend. middle-and upper-class wo­
men between the ages of 17 and As the disorder progresses, 
Miller estimated that about 30, have an obsessive concern Miller said, permanant 20 percent of the female stu­with dieting and exercise, Mil­changes in the individual's dents at Notre Dame and Saint ler said. The eating disorder is metabolic rate may occur and Mary's have an eating disorder accompanied by an "intense her hair may fall out. or its symptoms. fear of gaining weight or being Although there are more 
"The numbers are huge," fat," he said. bulimics on college campuses, said Miller, who heads the Miller said, "anorexia is more Healthy Options for Problem An anorexic may "spend 90 apparent to the naked eye. Eaters program. "It's alarm­percent of their waking hours Bulimia is more secretive, ing and it reflects on our soci­thinking about food," he said. more closet type behavior." ety's values." Many anorexics exercise 
If untreated, both disorders ritualistically and are often 25 see DISORDER, page 4 

·Anorexia: How to Hetp· ~.:~ 
DO encourage your friend to get a professional assessment. DO encourage decision-making and being responsible for those decisions. DO realize that by giving up control, you're setting the stage for your friend to develop healthy self-control. 
DON'T be manipulated. Require your friend to be responsible for his/her behavior. minimize their pain. Listening Is OM of 

Iet yourBifllf get dumped on. 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, J~nuary 21, 1988 


,Of Interest 
Father Theodore Hesburgh has been awarded the distinguished public service medal of the Department of Defense. Hesburgh was cited for "his commitment to the success of ROTC programs at Notre Dame." There are 749 students in Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC programs at the University, about 10 percent of the un­dergraduate student body. -The Observer 
A$250,000 pled~e has been received by the University from the Texaco Philanthropic Foundation for research and the development of junior faculty in the Department of Chemical Engineering. The first installment of $50,000 has already been received. -The Observer 

In Brief 

Junior Robert Costello will relieve senior Robert Henke as Battalion Commander of the Naval ROTC unit at the annual change of command ceremony at 4:30p.m. today at the Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Keenan Revue tickets will be distributed tomorrow. 
Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 3 p.m. 
inside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Saint Mary's students 
may pick up tickets at the O'Laughlin Auditorium box 
office beginning at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
Hall Presidents' Council will be featured tonight on Campus Perspectives on WVFI-AM 640 with several HPC members. Questions can be called in at 239-6400 be­tween 10 and 11 p.m. Hosted by Chris Shank.-The Observer 
Eighteen choirs from five states will participate in the third annual Women's Choir Festival today and tomor­row at Saint Mary's. Performances begin at 9:45 a.m. with final presentations set for 4:20 p.m. both days in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Saint Mary's Women's Choir will perform at 12:05 p.m. both days. For information, call 284-4632. -The Observer 
Women United for Justice and Peace will meet tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The International Students Organization will hold a meeting today at 6 p.m. in the ISO lounge on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
A planning meeting for the April15 Cystic Fibrosis marathon dance/concert will be held tonight at 7 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune.-The Observer 
Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns starts tomorrow with Professor Fred Crosson, John J. Cavanaugh Chair in Humanities in the Program of Liberal Studies, speaking on "Honor and the Self". The talk is part of the series which examines the newly inaugurated Honor Code, and will take place from 12:15 to 1:00 p.m. in Room 124 of the CSC. -The Observer 
Freshman class ski trip sign-ups are extended until January 29. Sign up in Room 214 LaFortune between 2 and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.-The Observer 
The Center for Basic Learning needs volunteers to help tutor South Bend area adults in reading, writing and math. The Center operates Monday through Thursday, from 1:15 to 3:15 p.m., and each volunteer is asked to serve one afternoon per week. For information, contact Rob France at 283-2462. -The Observer 
Transfer and Off-Campus students who have not already picked up this year's campus telephone directory may do so at the information desk in the main lobby of LaFortune. -The Observer 
A campus-wide billiards tournament will begin February 5. Sign-up at the desk in the pool room in the basement of LaFortune. -The Observer 

Design Editor ............ Bernadette Shilts Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Design Assistant ........ Katy Kronenberg Accent Layout..... . ..... Rachel O'Hara Typesetters.................. . . . . . Micheal Buc Typists................................ Jenn Conlon ...................................... Mark Ridgeway ........................................ Lynsey Strand News Editor... . .... Scott Bearby .......................................... Wendy Burek Copy Editor ............. Kendra Lee Morrill ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Photographer. . ........ Suzanne Poch Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Layout Staff................... Carlie Schubert Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . .... Laura Manzi 
TM Otllener (USPS S99 l-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except 
durin& cum l.lld vacation periods. ne Obeener is publiahed by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame l.lld Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for S40 per year (SlS per semester) by writina ne Obeener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. 

ne Otllener is a member of ne .u.odolled Pnu. All reproduction rights are 
reserved. 

Become a Couch Potato and live to a ripe old age 
"Top doc says exercise may be bad for your health. Take it easy --and live longer!" 
Never has there been more reason to be lazy. 
Newsweek has declared fitness "out" and laziness "in." Stuffed Couch Potatoes are on the market. VCRs are cheaper and TV dinners are better 
than ever. 

Lincolnwood, Ill. is hosting Couch Potato Weekend, a convention to be held Saturday and Sunday complete with a discussion of TV therapy and a PotatOlympics (No real Couch Potato will show up, however. They'll watch it on TV.)
And now this. 

''A leading researcher says that exercise may not help you live longer --in fact it may hasten your death," the Jan. 19 issue of Weekly World News reports. 
"Dr. Roger McCarter of the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio theorizes that humans are equipped to burn just so many calories in a lifetime. He says when that number of calories is burned the person dies. 
"The idea is that since exercise burns up calories it may actually speed up the aging process --depenoing upon the person. 
"It could mean that a person with a middle 


age spread is actually healthier and will live knowing the "Crystal Light Aerobics Team" longer than a trim fitness fanatic of the same Will soon be off the air --for good. age." You don't have to feel rotten about neglecting 
You always liked lying on the couch, watching your yard anymore, too. Cutting the grass TV, your mouth hanging open, drooling on your would mean mowing a few weeks off your life. pillow. Now you have a scientific reason to do And heck, rake enough leaves and you'll be as it. dead as they are. 
You also have another reason to insist on aBeing a Couch Potato is good for you. 

remote-control TV. That control, after all, is aDon't scoff. The doctor's theory makes sense. 

godsend. Think of all the calories you burn just Remember how bad your body aches the day getting up to change the channel. 

after exercising? Remember how stiff your A remote control will add months to yourmuscles are? 
life... years, if you watch enough TV.

Your body is telling you something. 
And you can feel good about taking theI bet a single aerobics session takes three elevator rather than the stairs now. You canmonths off your life. A pick-up basketball game stare at the other riders knowing that you allprobably wipes out a couple of months. And are slowing down the aging process. 

walking to the store rather than taking the car At last, the Couch Potato can rest easy.
probably costs you a couple of days. 
Of course, with all this good news for Potatoes My gosh. Those joggers running on the road­comes bad news for fitness fanatics. They'reside in January are doomed for sure. Ifexhaust killing themselves. 

fumes, pneumonia or a bumper doesn't get But there's hope. 
them, the loss of calories will. 
Habits can be broken, even unhealthy onesNo wonder you never see runners smiling. 

like exercise. The next time you feel the urgeTheir hobby is killing them. 

to run, mow the lawn or frolick in a leotard,So you Potato People can breathe a sigh of head for the nearest couch. Lie down, turn onrelief. 

the TV (with the remote control), let yourNo longer do you have to feel guilty about mouth hang open, and drool. 

watching aerobics on TV. You can sit back It could save your life. 

r-----------------~
ULTRA GRAPmCS 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fqr talent. 
288-0500 

If yqu have any, cqme tq qur Qfflces 
Printed T-Shirts 
Earn extra money without leaving 

and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
the campus. For more information 
call 288-0500. 
·­

Attention ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS Effective immediately New Reservations policy for Theodore's: 
1) A reservation application must be received seven days in advance of event. Application can be picked up during office hours 4-5 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in Theodore's office which can be accessed off of the south stair well on the second floor of Lafortune or in the Student Activities Office. 
2) A deposit of $50 CASH must be received three working days prior to the event. A cancellation must be received 24 hours before event or deposit will be lost. 
3) Reservations can only be made for Monday-Tuesday 2 p.m.-12p.m. Other days and between times are left to the discretion of the management. 
If there are any questions, contact Noel Murtha Reservations Manager at 28.3-.34.35 


Thursday, January 21, 1988 
The Observer page 3 
LaFortune rooms renamed 
names of the conference rooms named in honor of distin­By VICTOR CUCINIELLO is a continual attempt to make guished men in Notre Dame's
News Staff 
the LaFortune Student Center history. 
reflect the spirit of the students Within each room, a plaque Along with its recent facelift, at the University." will be displayed giving the his­LaFortune Student Center has Cassidy and Charles Lennon, tory of those men being 
undergone some inside the executive director for the honored along with portraits of changes as well. Alumni Association, played a each year's winner. The decor 
Until a couple of months ago, key role in implementing the of the rest of each room will each of the nine conference and project. But, it was through the reflect each figure being study rooms were named after combined efforts of the Alumni honored, said Cassidy. a particular city in which Notre Association, the Monogram Dame possessed an athletic Club and the Congregation of Since the refurbishment of rival. Now as students walk Holy Cross that an agreement LaFortune, much planning has through the halls of the build­was finally reached upon, ac­been done concerning the aes­ing, names like Sorin, Dooley, cording to the newsletter for thetics of the building, Cassidy Foster and Corby have Notre Dame alumni. said. Student Activities is con­replaced such names as New According to Cassidy, each tinually looking for new ideas Orleans, Annapolis, Chicago room would be renamed after for decorating the center and and West Point. According to one of the nine awards pre­hopes to receive input from the Joe Cassidy, director of student sented annually by the Alumni students and faculty. here at activities, "the change in the Association. These awards are Notre Dame, he said. 

Abused girl to face surgery 
Associated Press Thursday, said hospital hary, who specializes in plastic 
spokesman Mary Fetsch. and reconstructive surgery, 
GARY, Ind. Doctors "Wherever the blood flow was the presiding doctor and decided Wednesday to am­stops, the tissue below that is would perform the operation, putate at mid-calf the legs of a not getting any nutrients or Fetsch said. "very strong little girl" who nutrition and will eventually "She apparently is upset, but was found abandoned and die. Extensive tests have deter­she has been receiving visits frostbitten in a filthy, unheated mined the point of blood stop­from her great-grandmother home. page is mid-calf," Fetsch said. and her aunt, and they have 
"Physically she's still in fair been supporting her through 
The mother of Darlwin Car­and stable condition. There's much of this," Fetsch said. lisle, 9, surrendered to police really no life-threatening con­The girl will be fitted for ar­four hours before doctors at ditions," Fetsch added. tificial limbs, but Fetsch said Wyler Children's Hospital in it was difficult to determine Chicago decided the child's The girl was told of the deci­how long it would take her to lower legs could not be saved. sion to amputate Wednesday recover from the amputations Surgery was scheduled for afternoon. Dr. Lawrence Zac-and to adjust to the prostheses. 
tial bid and again in 1986 and anything about the details," 1987. Hart said. "We will comply

Politics 
For Hart, who has been with all the laws and regula­continued from page 1 trying to overcome questions tions." 
The questions for Hart in about his personal life by Hart said he will "hold New Hampshire concerned a stressing high moral standards (himself) responsible for report that Stuart Karl, in his public life, the latest dis­whatever happened and not marketer of Jane Fonda closures were seen as a new shift any blame to anyone workout and Playboy videos, blow in Iowa. else." But at the same time, he had bankrolled campaign ex­said, "Obviously a candidate penses through illegal contri­"We're looking into all the al­cannot know every detail" of legations... .I don't know
butions in Hart's 1984 presiden-his campaign. 
South Padre 
for 



S,ering Break 
hotel accommodations at the luxurious 


Spiker 
Freshman Chris Gardner buoyantly rises above the rest of the team in a game of water volleyball at Rolf's Aquatic Center. Volleyball, waterpolo, diving, food and music were all a part of the wet fun at the Winteriest pool party Wednesday night. 
Blood 
continued from page 1 
more blood is required," she explained. 
Senior Katherine Gehl, chairperson of the drive, said she was quite pleased with the student response. "We had people coming from all over" campus. 
Trubac said she recom­mends blood drives on high school and college campuses because of the reluctancy of students to go to blood banks and give. 
"Hopefully, if they have a good experience they'll give on their own later," she said. 
Fear of Aquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) prevents many people from donating, Gehl said. Trubac stressed that a person cannot contract AIDS from donating blood. 
She said the blood bank tech­nicians who staff the drives use disposable needles and give each donor candidate a blood test before he may donate. 
The blood test encompasses eight areas including hepatitis, 
Gehl said students often feel more relaxed about giving blood when they are sur­rounded by their friends, who may have already experienced donating. 
Gehl said she used the per­sonal "one on one" approach when recruiting students for the drive. "I talked to people in my dorm and classes and I asked them to bring their friends." Gehl said she as­sured the potential donors that "there's really nothing to be lost by giving blood." She said that she herself has been a donor since high school. 
Many of the donors were donating for the first time, she said. "First-timer" Veronica Stasa said she was already con­sidering donating when Gehl approached her. 
"It's beneficial for other people. Since I'm healthy I thought I could help other people. I know they can use the blood because it's always in demand," Stasa said. 
The freshman said she did have some apprehension at first. "I didn't know how I was going to react." 
Stasa said she would recom­mend giving blood to her peers since "it took about five minutes. I can sacrifice a day fb'g kt th •I" 

r---· 

page 4 ·The Observer 
Annie 
Disorder 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
doing aerobics and sit-ups at Most bulimics consume what night. Annie once ate a package they consider to be too much of cookies at 2 a.m. and then food. Depending on the individ­ran around campus six times ual, a bulimic then will go on to work it off. an eating binge -eating anyth­Annie's self perception ing from a piece of pizza to a changed. She bought her 20,000-calorie meal. clothes a size smaller than nor­The bulimic will then feel mal, so she could "shrink out" guilty because of the binge, of them as she lost weight. even if it only consisted of a When she looked in the mirror, single hamburger. she'd sometimes see a bump or Miller said the bulimic will a bulge and would yell at her­purge the binge by self-induced self for having eaten too much. vomiting, laxative or diuretic Other times Annie's emaciated abuse, restrictive dieting or 
Thursday, January 21 , 1988 
pens and they lose control," she 
said. 
Donley said many women un­fairly compare their bodies to those of magazine models. Be­cause women are more evaluated by their appearance than men, this puts excessive pressure on women to be thin, she said. 
"The most important part of appearance is weight for wo­men in college," Donley said. 
Jokes about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women's weight in the dining hall, Observer classified ads and the Keenan Revue put extra pressure on female students to be thin, she said. 
At Notre Dame's Psycholog­ical Services, Donley said she uses relaxation strategies and assertiveness training tech­niques to stop the starving and hinging behaviors. 
Although Miller's HOPE pro­gram does not work in conjunc­tion with Notre Dame Psycho­logical Services, Miller said, HOPE treats five or six Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students a year. 
Although most patients are treated on an out-patient basis, the HOPE program also offers a three-week in-patient treat­ment. This year, Miller said, anorexic students treated in the hospital are being let out to attend classes. 
After leaving the hospital, patients remain in support groups so they won't revert to their old ways, he said. 
Recovery depends on how long the patient has had the eating disorder and how much she wants to recover, Donley said. "People do recover but it is a long process and different for each person," she added. 

form would frighten her. 
I'd say, 'I can stop when I want,' " she said, "but it's like a drug or alcohol. Sometimes you can't stop." 
In order to hide her anorexia, Annie began lying to her friends and relatives. "You feel you have to keep it all a se­cret," she said, "but nobody is fooled." 
Her roommate finally told the dorm's rectress about Annie, who denied everything. 
Annie saw a staff psychia­trist at the University Counsel­ing Service, but she lied to him. Recognizing her dishonesty, he explained that he couldn't give Annie help until she wanted it. 
When Annie went home for vacation, her parents checked her into the hospital where she was fed intravenously. The doctors told her she couldn't return to Notre Dame unless she gained weight. 
"It was my father who turned me around," Annie said. "He began crying and asked, 'What have I done?' He told me I was hurting more people than just myself." 
Annie returned to Notre Dame where she received counseling from the University Counseling Services. "The counseling was one of the best things that ever happened to me. I learned that you shouldn't care how much you weigh; you should just feel good about yourself." 
"I wish guys would have more of an idea about all this when they make jokes about 'fat Notre Dame girls,' " said Annie. "I'm not saying they are the main cause of (eating dis­orders), but those jokes do have an effect." 
Annie is a senior now, and she admits to feeling pressured about job interviews and plan­ning for the future. At one point this semester Annie lost 15 pounds. "You know (anorexia) can come back. But the better I feel about myself, the less I feel it will return," she said. 
Jennifer (not her real name) also recognizes that her bulimia was triggered by a va­riety of pressures. Her parents were going through a divorce, and her father was an al­coholic. Like Annie, Jennifer describes herself as an overac­hiever and a perfectionist. 
"I felt I had to do extra, extra good," she said. "Perfec­tionists don't get down to what's really wrong. 
Jennifer first showed signs of bulimia when she was 13. Her weight dropped 15-20 pounds below normal. She developed poor circulation, and her peri­ods became irregular. 
Like Annie, Jennifer avoided her friends and relatives. "My sister finally confronted me," she said, "but you want to deny (the problem), because you feel ashamed of it.'' 
Jennifer finally confided in a neighbor when she was 18. "She was very helpful and under­standing," Jennifer said. 
She advises anyone with eating disorders to get help im­mediately. "It's worth it to be healthy. Bulimia is a problem and you have to solve it." 
"If it gets bad enough, you can die from it," said Annie. "And you're too young to worry about things that can kill you." 
vigorous exercise --"anything to drastically reduce weight." 
Many bulimics, who usually develop the disorder between the ages of 15 and 18, "fit the stereotypical image of the col­lege cheerleader," Donley said. 
They are outgoing and fairly attractive, she added. 
Obsessed with their weight, how they look, and how much they eat, many bulimics con­stantly ask their friends whe­ther they look fat, Donley said. 
Bulimia has the potential to affect every major organ in the body, she said. It could affect 
a  female's  ability  to  have  
children.  
Similar to  abusing alcohol,  

many anorexics and bulimics diet excessively to cope with academic pressures, peer pre­ssures or feelings of inada­quacy, Donley said. 
Often, a stressful situation, such as the break-up of a rela­tionship, or parents' divorce, will push a diet over the edge into bulimia, said Donley. 
'Many people simply start to diet but then something hap-

What:  1988 MOCK NATIONAL CONVENTION  
When:  April11-14, 1988  
Why:  Have fun/Elect Notre Dame's Choice for the  
next President and Vice President  

Accepting applications for the following committees: campaigns platform delegates rules publicityI promotions 
Pick up application from Student Government Offices 2nd floor La Fortune 
Applications due Friday, January 22 
For fwther information, please call Vince or Denise at 239-6283 or 7668 
ADWORKS 

l 
I
Viewpoint
Thursday, January 21, 1988 page 5 
Everyone benefits from Big Brothers 
The most important gift you can give to anyone is yo•trself. 
We students all need the Notre Dame Alumni. Among other things, they donate money to build our classrooms, and they write job recommendations when we graduate. However, the per­son who will come to mind to us 25 years later when the words "Notre Dame" are mentioned is that special adminis­trator, rector, teacher, or friend who took time out to get to know us. 
Mark Laughlin 
guest column 
I came to Notre Dame with the inten­tion of joining a service organization but was overwhelmed at the numerous choices available. Freshman year at Activities Night, it seemed that at every table there was yet another acronym waiting to sign me up and send me a newsletter. Later that year, I made a decision to join one of those organizations and it turned out to be one of the best decisions I've made here. That organization was Big Brot­hersBig Sisters <BOOS). 
Big BrothersBig Sisters is an organi­zation which matches an adult, college age or older, with a child usually age 6 to 10. Most of the "Iittles" are from economically disadvantaged and bro­ken homes. Their environment, values and goals are many times quite differ­ent from those of most Notre Dame stu­dents. Once a big and little are matched, they spend time together at least once a week in a variety of activ­ities which include roller skating, putt­putt golfing, visiting a museum, or doing something on campus. Approxi­mately once a month the organization sponsors an activity, but what you do with your little is entirely up to you. 
Let me give you a few reasons why I have stayed with BOOS and also a little about my own match. 
First, BBBS offers the opportunity for a special one-on-one relationship. Unlike many other service groups on campus, BBBS offers a unique oppor­tunity to develop an important relation­ship with one person, a relationship which could not be established, much less maintained, by monetary dona­tions, frequent letters, or even oc­casional visits. This is especially meaningful to the Iittles, many of whom have never had an adult take time out for them and only them. Another bonus: after spending my entire week with students age 18 to 20, it was 
Doonesbury 
refreshing to talk to someone with a fresh perspective. 
Second, BOOS has flexible meeting times. Practically speaking, this is one of the best aspects of the program. With work, basketball games, other campus groups, law school applications, social life, and an occasional study session vying for my time, it is very convenient to schedule activities with my little bro­ther around other commitments. It would be difficult for me to make it to any group's regularly scheduled weekly meetings, but it becomes much easier when you can meet on a Satur­day afternoon, a Monday evening, or any other time during the week accor­ding to your own schedule. 
Third, and the most satisfying aspect of BOOS is the feeling that you have made a difference in someone's life. In November of 1985, I was matched with Glen, a 10-year-old fifth grader. Glen's family was poor, his grades were poorer, and his activities and experi­ences had been, up to that point, lim­ited. I was very nervous as the caseworker and I drove to Glen's house for the first time. Our first couple of meetings were tough, and conversation was minimal. But as we did more things and spent more time together, I be­came quite at ease poking fun at his big belly and he at my propensity for getting Notre Dame parking tickets. Our activities together have included a roadtrip to my home in Omaha over Easter break, a day trip to Chicago, a costly trip to the video arcade, as well as many weeks of just hanging out at my dorm or throwing the football on the quad. I used to want to have some planned activity each week, but now I believe it's not what you do when you get together, but just the fact that you get together that's important. 
Last year, Glen failed sixth grade. His failing, though, was not due to a lack of intelligence but to a lack of ef­fort, and I told him so. Together, we decided that he needed to spend more time on his homework, and, also to­gether, we studied about once a week in the Notre Dame library last semes­ter. The result: Glen's lowest grade on his last progress report was an 80 and most were around 90. Now, I'm not trying to say that I've made an Einstein out of a dropout -most of the credit for his turnaround goes to Glen. I'm saying that after investing so much time in him, both of us have grown in many ways from our relationship. 
Big BrotherS'Big Sisters is not for everyone, though. While two hours a week doesn't sound like a lot of time, 

SilL., THI$ IS A IAHR&'S 
CRJTICAi TIM& MR.JJUK/3 FOR !JR. fAJHCXR:& NOah arreRPRI$&5.., MA~M:? 
I I 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the adm1mstration of e1ther institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space 
•S ava1iable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. 1S encouraged. 
it is. More than a few times I have watched my friends leave for the Rock while I left for a sixth grade orchestra recital. More than a few times I have watched my friends leave for Senior Bar while I left for the fifth floor of the library to doublecheck Glen's long divi­sion answers. Before you commit to anything, you must make sure you cim honor your commitment. Though there are many Iittles who greatly crave your attention, better for them to be disap­pointed by no one than rejected by someone. 
Also, due to the time frame of the relationship, BOOS asks that students begin the application process in either their freshman or sophomore years. If 
Lunch fast: a worthy sacrifice 
Dear Editor: 
"No way, I need my lunch." I wish I had a dollar for every time I heard that type of response during the past three years when I've been signing people up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast. The fast is a program in which students agree to give up their dining hall lunch on Wednesday. The University Food Ser­vice then donates one dollar for every lunch that is skipped. It's sad that people who have always had more than enough to eat can really think that mis­sing one turkey sandwich and some jello is such a big deal. "Miss lunch?" people say, "I'll get hungry." Maybe they will. And maybe it's time for those of us who have always enjoyed, not only enough food, but thousands of the other good things in life, to find out what it's like to go hungry for a few hours. Maybe it will help us to appreciate our in­numerable blessings. 
The ugly problem called hunger seems very far removed from us, and as students, we don't have time to worry about it. But the fast doesn't ask for our time; it only asks that we give a little of ourselves -always knowing that at 5 p.m. there will be plenty of spaghetti in the dining hall to fill up on again. This knowledge that food will be available in a few hours is a luxury that millions of people don't have. These are the type of less fortunate people who benefit from fasters' generosity. The money collected from the fast at the end of the semester goes toward gras­sroots development agencies in India, 
Garry Trudeau 
Big BrotherS'Big Sisters sounds like something you'd be interested in, or even if you'd just like to get some more information about the program, there will be an organizational meeting on January 26 at 7 p.m. in the multipurpose room of the Center for Social Concerns. If you can't make the meeting, you can call the BOOS organization at 232-9958 or me at 283-2385. 
Give yourself to a child for an hour, change him for a day; give yourself for a year or two and change him for a lifetime. 
Mark Laughlin is a senior economics major and a member of Big Brot­hers/Big Sisters. 
Bangladesh, Chile and Africa that are helping people to feed themselves and to better their existences. 
The question is always asked, "Why does the dining hall donate only one dol­lar per lunch when they'd charge me four dollars if I forgot my ID?" Here are the answers. By charging a lot, the University is trying to discourage "for­gotten IDs" and trying to stop people without meal plans from sneaking into the dining hall. Moreover, the food it­self costs the dining hall about a dollar per lunch. The four dollar charge goes toward overhead, like employees' wages and upkeep. Mr. Hickey is not making any money on this deal; in­stead, the Food Service is going through extra bookwork to help a very good cause. So please don't use this as an excuse for not helping out. 
On Jan. 27, the Wednesday Lunch Fast will begin. It will last throughout the semester until finals week. I would like to ask those of you who have been faithful fasters in the past to continue your generosity this semester. And to those of you who've never fasted, I'd like to ask you to try it. Skip one lunch, and see if you can keep going. It's not necessarily going to be easy, but it's a sacrifice well worth making. If you're willing to give of yourself, please sign up at the dining halls today or call 283­2461 and leave your name and ID num­
ber. caring.  Thanks  for  your  concern  and  
Laurie Konwinski  Co-president  

World Hunger Coalition January 19, 1988 

P.O. Box Q 
ABS0/..1/TUY. 
Quote of the Day

SO HC.'5 THEY ALJ?fAIJY 6C.TTING SCNTM8A THE. BEST. Um£/UAUET 
I HE. MAP&. 
"Start by doing what is necessary, then what's possible and suddenly you are doing the impossible." 

\ 
St. Francis of Assisi 

Editorial Board 
Editor-In-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1968 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton 


Accent
page 6 Thursday, January 21, 1988 
St. Ed's Players to perform 'The Odd Couple' 
than just plain entertainment. slapstick. no-art." Furthermore, he added, "We don't want the Players to stagnate, get in a rut early on, or have the reputation for doing the same type of 
show." 
The play is concerned with a subject some students are facing now and which most of us will face in the future. The relationship of these two male roommates is symbolic of a marital relationship. We see what marriage will entail through their eyes of Ungar and Madison. 
This full-scale production is a big endeavor for a student-run organization like the Players. Sophomore Mark Wiltberger, a cast member, commented, "It's amazing students got it all to­gether, and it's coming off so well. We are doing it all--the acting, the publicity, the set, everything--and are still having a good time." 
Most of the group are resi­
dents of St. Edward's Hall. 
There are two female actors, 
however, and many of the 
"ever-necessary" crew members 
are also women. Another cast 
member, Freshman Brad Perry, 
attends Holy Cross Junior Col­
lege. 
For Perry, as well as for 
Lowell Francis, a freshman 
from St. Edward's Hall. the play 
has been an "integrating expe­
rience." Francis said, "It has 
helped me feel more a part of 
the dorm. The guys ask me 
how the play is going, and it 
really helps to get to know 
people." 
The Players exists for two groups of people according to 
DiFranco. First, it is for those 
involved in the show. "It's a 
chance to get together and to 
get to know each other," he 
said. Some of the cast mem­
bers affirmed the accomplish­
ment of this goal: "We enjoy 
doing it. We know we don't 
have to be here, and we know 
we are doing something that 
will be decent." 
Secondly, the Players exists for the community. The group wants to put on shows people will enjoy. DiFranco and the Players are confident that they will accomplish this once again next weekend. Although the Keenan Revue is scheduled for the same weekend, there doesn't seem to be a problem for either group. 
Regarding the scheduling conflict, Difranco said, "We booked Washington Hall almost a year ago and did not find out it was the same weekend as the Revue until it was too late to change. The play is charging ahead and despite the large draw of the Revue, we felt it is going to do very well. The cast, crew, and I feel very confident that our production this year is going to be first rate in every respect." 
The Keenan Revue crew has collaborated with the St. Ed's Players and has agreed to have ticket sales for "The Odd Couple" right alongside their own ticket distribution tomor­row at the ACC. (Tickets will also be sold for $2 in the dining halls this weekend--Jan. 22 and 23--or at the door next weekend.) 

W
MARY BERGER accent writer hether thrown together by chancfW or by choice, when two people live together, the ensuing scenario can be har­monious or disastrous. For Felix Ungar and Oscar Madison, best friends but not the best of friends in Neil Simon's "The Odd Couple," life together was odd. 
The St. Edward's Hall Players, a completely student-run or-dent director Duane DiFranco. During his ten years as rector ('75-'86), Pedi directed a play during all but two seasons. 
After Pedi left St. Edward's Hall, the hall president and now a cast member of "The Odd Couple," Andy Barlow, decided to keep the tradition of the play by forming the Players with DiFranco at the healm. According to DiFranco, "Since Andy's initial conception, the idea has grown and the plays more artistic." "The Odd Couple," in Difranco's opinion is "tried and true." He said. "It's not a play that will leave the audience rolling in the aisles like last year's show did, but it makes you warm inside. You see the characters up there and one in the eight you'll really identify with. Seeing what they do, you'll have to laugh at yourself on stage." 
At the beginning of last se­mester, the Players began 

ganization, will be performing this "play about people" next weekend in Washington Hall. 
The Players are now in their second year of existence, and "The Odd Couple" is their second big production. The inspiration for the group can be traced to the influence of a former rector, Father Mario Pedi. Pedi, who trained in New York under Lee Strasberg, was "quite Into theater" according to Players' president and resi­we are putting on are even big­ger productions than Mario's were." 
Last year's production of "Love, Sex. and the IRS" was quite a success. Despite the fact that the group put on the production with no money to start with, they had over one hundred pleased people in at­tendance every night. 
This year the Players wanted to do something "more chal­lenging, more traditional. and searching through catalogs at plays for the right spring pro­duction. Difranco read at least one hundred blurbs of different plays, concentrating on com­edies. Then the club officers read ten or fifteen sel.ected ones, narrowed the options to five, discussed them, and decided upon "The Odd Couple." 
According to Difranco, the comedy was chosen because it is, unlike a lot of others, "more 
'thirtysomething' depicts 
•

serious side of Yuppyhood 
JOE BUCOLO accent writer 

I 
t's something old, someth­ing new, and something borrowed. It's "thirtysometh­ing," ABC's new dramedy about Yuppies. They're everywhere else so why not on television, too? Actually "thirtysomething" is one of the season's most intelligent and innovative shows. 
"thirtysomething" airs on ABC Tuesdays at 10 p.m. Dealing primarily with the lives of Yuppies, the show features two main characters, Michael (Ken Olin) and Hope (Mel Har­ris) who recently welcomed a baby into their lives. Michael. a once-aspiring writer, owns an advertising agency with his friend Elliot (Timothy Busfield). 
Hope, on the other hand, is not as lucky and has to put her publishing career on "hold" to take care of the baby. The show features Michael and Hope's friends as well. Ellyn (Polly Draper) is Hope's best friend and has everything but a man, the one thing she wants most. Michael's photographer cousin Melissa (Melanie Mayron) is always around to complain about her love life: "How am I ever going to have a baby? I'm dating babies." Michael's friend and best man Gary (Peter Horton) seems to maintain a level of sanity among the group. 
So what's "old" about "thir­tysomething?" As one would guess, these characters get into some sticky, but somewhat ordinary situations. Michael whines that he won't be able to create an ad portfolio for his client by the deadline. Hope wonders if her four years at Princeton were wasted since she has to be home with the baby. Ellyn feels as if Hope's baby is infringing upon their friendship. And Michael stares at his barren, ugly dining room and wonders if he will ever have the cash to redecorate. Sound realistic? It is. In fact, some argue that the plots are "borrowed" directly from real life. But people don't want to sit down at night only to "relive" their whole day on tele­vision. 
Enter the "new." This show presents the situations in a new and exciting way. One episode, for example, features outstanding dream sequences in which Michael speaks to his deceased grandfather for help and advice. In another episode, little furry creatures such as "anxiety'' haunt Michael at his office. Hope's anecdotes are quite witty also. She once tells her daughter how the Romans persecuted Daddy's ancestors until Mommy's ancestors 
rescued them. When Michael is running about looking for his argyle socks, Hope tells how 
she set fire to them on an in­
verted cross and "danced around them naked until they lost all their power." 
Of course there's also those unmistakable Yuppie trademarks that permeate every aspect of the show: the Volvos, the argyle socks, the suspenders, and the terminol­ogy. Edward Zwick and Mar­shall Herskovitz, the show's creators, leave no bottle of Per­rier unturned while depicting this lively breed of Americans. The character's play squash, spend "quality time" with their children, and plan to send the kids to Harvard. What, Prince­ton isn't good enough? 
The show's actors are out­standing. Olin portrays his character perfectly, right down to the whining in his voice when he declares, "I am NOT a Yuppie." Ya, right. Harris plays the concerned, somewhat flir­tatious wife with an efferves­cence of which Dom Perignon would be proud. Finally, Hor­ton's performance as Gary, the only character who comes somewhat close to being care­free, is flawless. 

These marvelous qualities 
combined with soap opera pacing and serious plotlines make "thirtysomething" a forerunner in a recent epidemic of TV dramatic comedies. A recent Grammy nomination is 
the first of a sure list of awards for the show. With "Moonlight­ing" as its strong lead-in show, "thirtysomething" is sure to be around for years to come. Who knows? It may even outlive the 
Yuppies themselves. 

~--------­
Thursday, January 21, 1988 The Observer 
page 7 

Sports Briefs 
The O.C. hockey team has a gametonight at 10:45 in the JACC. -The Observer 
The varsity and novice crew teams will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
The women's soccer team will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the P.W. lounge. Any questions, call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The martial arts institute beginner's class will begin workouts today and Sunday, Jan. 24. Those interested in joining contact Bill or Drew at 288-4319. No experience necessary. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVII Commissioner applications can be picked up at the secretaries desk on the second floor LaFortune. Any sophomore interested in the position should turn in an application by Tuesday, January 26. Interviews will be conducted from January 27-29. Any questions, call Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
Any freshman interested in becoming a student manager should attend an organizational meeting Tues­day, Jan. 26, at 7:30p.m. in the JACC auditorium. Call the managers' office at 239-6482 after 2:30p.m. weekdays if you have any questions. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball entry forms are now available at Angela Athletic Facility. The forms for the five-on-five league are due Monday, Jan. 25. -The Ob­server 
RefereesareneededforSMCintramuralbasketball. Call 5548 for more information. -The Observer 
Snow volleyball teams which have not yet been eliminated should report to Stepan Field Sunday, Jan. 24, at 11 a.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Flores leaves Raiders post 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Tom Flores, saying he was worn out after nine years in the pressure cooker, retired as coach of the Los Angeles Raiders Wednes­day. 
"I've won. I think it's time to smell the roses. It's time for me to step aside," Flores said. "I have no regrets. I've expe­rienced just about everything you can." 
Flores, 50, guided the Raiders to a 5-10 record in 1987, their worst showing in 25 years. 
Overall, his teams had a 83-53 regular-season record. They won three AFC west champion­ships in his nine years as head coach. In the postseason, his teams were 8-3. 
But the Raiders, who managed the only two Super Bowl wins by AFC teams in the 1980s, lost 14 of their last 19 games. They were 8-4 in 1986 before losing their last four games to fall out of playoff con­tention. 

"I'm not burned out, I'm just tired,'' Flores said at a packed news conference. "It's time to go on to another challenge. Ob­viously the nine years of the pressure cooker have worn me out a little bit, so I'm going to take a little rest. 
Team owner AI Davis said it was Flores' decision to step down and indicated it would be a while before he would name a replacement, although it has been speculated that he might hire a black. 
"No one asked Tom Flores to retire," Davis said. "This is what he wanted to do. Tom will continue to serve the Raiders as an advisor, special projects, and will always be a part of our organization. 
"I would hope that the Raiders would have a new head coach by the league meetings in March. I haven't thought about it and I won't discuss it. The last time it took about a month. It's a very big, a very tough decision." 
Davis was asked about the possibility of hiring a black coach. 
"I would say that with all our great records, one characteris­tic of the Raiders is that race, color, creed, and even sex has never interfered," he replied. "I'm going to choose the best person who can lead the Raiders.'' 
If Davis does hire a black, he would be the first of his race to be a head coach in the modern­day NFL. 
Among those rumored as possible successors to Flores are San Francisco assistant Dennis Green, Raiders assis­tants Charlie Sumner, Art Shell and Willie Brown, and Pit­tsburgh assistant Tony Dungy. Only Sumner is white. 

Evert tops Navratilova in Open 
Associated Press 

MELBOURNE, Australia ­Chris Evert downed long-time rival Martina Navratilova and top-seeded Steffi Graf routed fellow West German Claudia Kohde-Kilsch Thursday to ad­vance to the women's finals of the $1.9 million Australian Open. 
Graf lost the first two games at love but rallied to beat Kohde-Kilsch, the eighth seed, 6-2, 6-3, in 45 minutes. 
Evert, playing from the baseline with pinpoint ac­curacy, downed Navratilova 6­2, 7-5 to earn her first berth in a Grand Slam final since the 1986 French Open. 

It will be Evert's sixth ap­pearance in the Australian Open final. She has won twice, in 1982 and 1984. 
Graf's victory earned her the fourth Grand Slam final berth of her career. She is 4-6lifetime against Evert, but has won their last four meetings. 
Graf's only previous Grand Slam victory came in last year's French Open. She lost to Navratilova in the U:S. open and Wimbledon finals her only losses of 1987. 
Graf's victory extended her winning streak to 20 matches. Her last loss was to Nav­ratilova in the U.S. open final. 
Graf extended her record against Kohde-Kilsch to 5-2. 
Mter losing the first two games, Graf found her stroke and was able to concentrate on exploiting Kohde-Kilsch's lack of mobility and poor volleying while scoring with a succession of deadly-accurate punched forehands. 

n.a...wrNotre o.me office, located on the third Hoof of Lafortune Stu· cMnt eenw, eooept11 clualfted ectw.tilllng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Mondlly through Frtday. Tile '*-"-Saint fMry'a office, located on the third floor ol ~Collge Cent•. eooept11 claalfteda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Mond•y through Frtday. Deedllne for next-day clualftedala 3 p.m. All clualfteda must
Classifieds be ~. either In pentOn or by mall. The charga Ia 10 cents per five ~p.-day. 
LOST: GREY SKI JACKET at Rat's For Sale, Smith Corona Typerwriter Call ATTENTION FORMER MALE FRIOSHMAN TALENTED MALES: Don 271-0653 HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE SKI SUGARLOAF SHENANIGANS
house last Thursday night. II found call
NOTICES NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga­
Jerry at £1728. No questions asked and IS AUDITIONING MEN TO Fill AN 
nize a Howard gathering during the hall 
OPENING I Great Hockey Equipment--Call Don 271-socials after the JPW dinner. If you would FRESHMAN CALL DAN AT 3596 reward oflered. 
.........

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n·2724 NIGHT; 0653 be interested in attending, and we know SKI SUGARLOAF WE NEED A SAX, TOO.
LOST: Chopard Watch of great sen­
2n·1051 DAY. you will, call Kevin Walsh at X3609 and Sign up In the Fresh. Class Office
timental value. Lost around the library or sign up. We need everybody signed up TODAYBreen-Phillips. Watch has a maroonEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
bend and a glass face. PLEASEcall1325 by January 27 and the sooner you sign FAITH .. You can fall lor pretty strangers, MRS. COKER, 233-7009. if lound. up the better, so call nowl Also, whenever and the promises they hold. But If you 
you see other Howard guys tell them tall lor me, at least you're settling for the 
SUGARLOAF $160 inc. TYPING AVAILABLE TICKETS meals,transpo.,lodging,lesson,llft tix Sign 
about this. Thanks. best. Speaking of which, It's not as lonely287--4082 up in Fresh. Class OH. betw. 2-4pm 2nd 
at the lop anymore.FOUND: A gold ring in Ladies Room of DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA'S FOR Fl. LaFortune Alumni Hall. Found during first week of 
KANSAS GAMEl II PLEASE CALL PAUL Sell old texts lor $$$. Pandoras -808NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used semester. Call 3792 at NO. 

AT X 1750. WILL PAY BIG $11. Howard (1 block oH NO Ave). Open daily SARAH "LAME DUCKESS" HAMIL·books at Pandorss. 808 Howard (1 block SMC & NO FROSH
10-5:30. Also save $ on used books. 
TON,oH NO Ave). Open dally 10·5:30 SKI SUGARLOAF

LOST:A gold high achool ring with Need 2 GA's and 1 student, or 4 GA's THANK YOU FOR THE WONDERFULblue atone at bllaketball game S.1. for Kansas game. call Bill 1605 Anyone interested In learning more COOKBOOK. SURPRISED TO SEE MY TYPING SERVICE 2511·2334 Name lngraved lnalde. It found, pleaae about, or worl<ing with Jack Kemp's RECIPES IN IT. REMEMBER THEcall Dorothy at 2866. Reward ollered. Will pey cash andt>r trade UCLA Gas for Presidential Campaign should call Dave FATHER RICHARD MCBRIEN WILL "DRUGS" IN YOUR MAILBOX FORCELEBRATE MASS FOR THEOLOGY2 Kansas Gas or stud. call 2287 
at 2001. 
THE DIP?

TYPING -CAll DOLORES MAJORS AND MINORS ON SUNDAY, LOVE,237-111411 JAN. 24 AT 11AM IN THE CHAPEL OF
NEED 2 TIX FOR KANSAS B-BALL OLD WIFE

ST. EDWARD'S HAU. BRUNCH WIU Thank you St. Jude for the answering of FOLLOW. Ride offered to Ann Arbor.Toledo,or WANTED special intentions! 
CALL PETE 233-9660 
HELP I NEED KANSAS TICKETS CALL 

DETAOIT.I-2211·24 1:2674 MIKE AT X1597
HIRING I Govemrnen1 Joba -your area. JUNIORS ...... CHICAGO CONGRATULATIONS STEPHEN
$15,00D-$88,000. Call (802) 838-8885, TRIP ........ JUNIORS 
PLEASE I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR PROTEST LEGALIZED ABORTION SEWELLIII DILLION HAU PRESI­Ext. 8282. 
KANSAS GAME. CALL MARY 288-5818. FRIDAY, 12:00 NOON DENT .... I wouldn't wish It on my worst 425 N. ST. LOUIS 
enemy much less you I Get used to climb­

CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND JUNIORS ......... CHICAGO 
SPEAK OUT FOR THOSE WHO CAN'T
' LOST/FOUND I 
Ing those stairs In the ed building I Love, 

SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL­TRIP ........... JUNIORS 
Kristin LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT· LEY FOR APPLICATION (1118) 244-NEED 4 KANSAS G.A. OR STUD. TIX Sign up In 1he Junior Clau office lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE 51135. DESPARATELYI CALL JOHN AT x3111. Wed., Thurs., & Fri., 3-5 pm. Pay $11 

2 BENGAL BOUTERS NEED 2 WOMEN FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE when you algn up. 
TO MASSAGE THEIR ACHES AWAY Help celebratelll Today Is NATIONAL WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO KANSAS BAS­JUNIORS ............ CHICAGO IN EXCHANGE FOR SOME 
HUG DAYI 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY KETBALL GAME. CALL SUSIE AT TRIP ........... JUNIORS WINING,DINING & GOOD TIMES. 
TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I £2599 
CAU 1851 FOR THE DEAL OF A .. """ .. '""""""HAPPY BIRTHDAY AEALL Y NEED IIII 
LIFETIME. TO THE BEST BOYFRIEND ANYONE 
................................ FOR RENT $$$$ I need a KANSAS GA desperately! 
COULD ASK FOR IIII JUST WANTED TO LOST ·DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY X3633 Jane of P.W., Happy Birthday and many SHE'S GOT BETTY DAVIS EYESIIIII LET YOU KNOW THAT YOU ARE DISK, SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD luture dinners together II From Little Bro' AEALL Y SPECIAL TO ME. HAVE A
Partially furnished ranch 3 bedrooms -2
OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON and his roommate I Mike saw that the bullet was lit for wor­GREAT DAY. ALWAYS, LIZ
baths washer-dryer-oven-stove­BOYCOTT COCA-COLA BOYCOTT
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE ship and pleasing to the eye, and desire­
refrigeralor-softner great neibourhood, COCA-COLA
CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD DAVID·CDMMUNICATIONSMGMT able for the knowledge It could give. • SHILTS ENTERPRISES IS BACK IN
oH Angela blvd. ideal lor 3 students call COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID
REWARD REWARD REWARD ma): Do You recall New Veers Eve In The book of Stu Chap 3:13. BUSINESS !IIIII ONCE AGAIN, WE ARE
232·3616 APARTHEID KILLS 
Dallas, TX at 1he Faa1 And Cool? A All JUST VICTIMS OF THE PARTYIII LOST/II LOST MY FAVORITE RED CAP certain SMU Mualc Therapy maj. • HEY CAT KILLER: WHAT DO YOU
SUPPORT THE BOYCOTI 2 BEDROOM HOME FOR RENT, NEAR 
SATURDAY NIGHT. IT WAS LOST TANIA Cordobea -lhlnka you are one MEAN WHAT DO I MEAN? YOU ARECAMPUS.272-8306
EITHER ON PORTAGE AVE. OR AT In a million and would like to keep In THE ONE WHO PROMISED THE JEL­BEANHEAD BEANHEAD BEANHEADCAMPUS VIEW. IF YOU FIND IT, 1ouch. Please call me a1 2143800569 LO. IF YOU TRY TO GET OUT OF IT I
OFUANISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BEANHEAD BEANHEAD DOES PICAS· PLEASE CALL STEPHEN AT 3018. 
after Spm E.S.T. WANT EQUAL COMPENSATION!
BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288-SO...COMING TO A GALLERY NEARTHERE IS A SMALL REWARD IF TIGHT BUNS
0955' 255-3684 YOU!
PERSONALS

FOUND I 
I NEED A AIDE TO INDY OR BLOOMINGTON, FRIDAY 1122 CALL NEED RIDE TO BOWLING GREEN OR LOST: bright purple umbrella with car· 
TONY £1209 EAST TO DROPPED OFF ALONG
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Interested in earn1ng a little extra cashtoon on sides. long with broken handle. 
OHIO TURNPIKE ON 1·22. CALL
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE on weekends?
lost before break. Sentimental value. 
MATT-X1749.
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. BE A PHOTOGRAPHER FOR IRISHPLEASE call Lorl-2516, rm 330 Howard. 
-
FOR SALE THANK YOU ST. JUDE THANK YOU PHOTOS and take party pies at SYRs
..................... 
there is a SUBstitution for boredom on 
LOST: PAIR OF PAESCAIP. BROWN­ST. JUDE THANK YOU ST. JUDEIII and formals. Some experience and own
this campus IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO 35mm camera required. Cali Pat atRIMMED GLASSES IN TAN HARD­GET INVOLVED IN THE STUDENT 
BACKED CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE MACINTOSH BOOK EXTERNAL DISK SUMMER JOBS DAYTONA x2318. 
DAYTONA UNION BOARD APPLICATIONS FOR 2093. DAYTONA COMMISSIONER POSITIONS FOR CALL 4559 OR 2688. DRIVE FOR SALE. CALL JOHN AT All LANDWATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA-ROUND THE 1988-89 SCHOOL YEAR WILL BE LOST:SEIKO WATCH with silver and MOUNTAINS TRIP,7 NIGHTS FROM $199 ACCEPTED FROM JAN 25-FEB 1, Exploding lighthouses 

gold band white lace, sometime belore Caribbean Cruise-5D'4N&Disney-3MN CAU COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN· break. HS grad. present--BIIIIGG $160 No vacation left-must use In 88-Gall INGS 914-381-4224 
CALL CHRIS 3382 NOWI AVAILABLE AT THE SECRETARY'S Gee, laurie. 
OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNEREWAADill Call Mike, 2112. Marl< 259-881IY4317(after 5) 
College basketball roundup 
Gators stun No. 4 Kentucky 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky.-Vernon Maxwell scored 19 points and Dwayne Schintzius added 18 as Florida, despite going score­less over the final 3 : 24, defeated No. 4 Kentucky 58-56 in Southeastern Conference basketball Wednesday night. 
Florida used a 2-1-2 zone that allowed Kentucky to make only 16 of 57 shots for 28.1 percent. 
Schintzius' wide-open slam dunk with 3: 24 to go gave Florida a 58-51 lead before Ken­tucky's futile rally. 
Florida ran its record to 13-4 overall and 4-1 in the confer­ence while Kentucky, losing for the second time in Rupp Arena this season, fell to 12-2 and 5-2. 
Winston Bennett topped Ken­tucky with 19 points and Rex Chapman added 14. 
Purdue 78, Michigan State 67 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Incl.­
Melvin McCants scored 12 of 
his 17 points in the first half as 
No. 5 Purdue took a six-point 
halftime lead and a 78-67 Big 
Ten Conference victory over 
Michigan State on Wednesday 
night. 

Purdue, 16-1 after its 15th win 
in a row, improved to 6-0 in the 
conference. Michigan State, 
which knocked Indiana from 
the rankings Saturday, fell to 
___p_a_g_e_8--~ --­
The Observer Thursday, January 21, 1988 

*!noverall and 1-4 in the Big L Whitefish, MT 59937 · 
. -------·-----·-·-~-·-,..,_.·-·---·-' 

Todd Mitchell added nine of his 21 points during a five­minute run at the beginning of the second-half in which the Boilermakers outscored the Spartans 14-4, giving them a 56­40 advantage. 
Purdue scored 10 of those points after Michigan State Coach Jud Heathcote was as­sessed a technical foul with 
18: 06 to play for arguing with officials. 
IowaSt.l14, Nebraska 76 
AMES, Iowa -Jeff Grayer scored 37 points to power No. 10 Iowa State to a 114-76 Big Eight Conference victory over Nebraska Wednesday night, the Cyclones' biggest rout ever in a regular league game. 

Lafester Rhodes, who along with Elmer Robinson did not start for being late to the arena, came off the bench to add 23 points as Iowa State topped the 
100-point  mark for  a  team  
record  seventh  time  this  
season.  

In other college basketball action Wednesday, Wake For­est upset North Carolina State 71-67, St. John's defeated Geor­getown 65-58, Villanova whipped Connecticut 69-58, Tennessee upended Auburn 75­64, Louisville nipped Cincinnati 91-89 in overtime, LSU tripped Alabama 67-52, Northwestern edged Minnesota 65-61, Vir­ginia bounced Maryland 84-72, Clemson knocked off Furman 76-65, Vanderbilt spayed Geor­gia 92-77 and South Carolina bounced Campbell 88-71. 
r-~.-...--...-.-~·-..-.c._..__.._..~-----.._.._....... 
SUMMER JOBS Large resort in Glacier National Park, MT is seeking student employees for the 1988 
summer  season  including:  waiters,  
waitresses,  desk  clerks,  cooks,  
salespeople,  cocktail  servers,  office,  

service station, and maintenance personnel. Monthly salary, including room and board. Interviews will be held on campus in Mid-February. 
Write for an application: St. Mary Lodge P.O. Box 1617 

DePaul nips ND 70-66 
Special to the Observer 
DePaul withstood a 25­point, 20-rebound perfor­mance by Notre Dame for­ward Heidi Bunek to come from behind and defeat the Irish 80-77 in women's bas­ketball Wednesday night. 
Notre Dame led by as many as 14 points in the first half, as Irish guard Karen Robinson scored 12 of her 16 total points. The Blue Demons closed the gap to 43­40 at halftime. 
The Irish had a 66-62 lead with six and a half minutes to play when Veronica Ross drove, scored and drew a foul from Notre Dame cen­ter Sandy Botham. Ross con­verted the three-point play, Botham fouled out and the Demons pulled to within one. 
Robinson answered with a score to give the Irish a 68-65 lead, but DePaul followed with seven consecutive points and never trailed again. 
Diana Vines led DePaul with 27 points and 12 rebounds. Mary Gavin had 10 assists for Notre Dame, and Botham had 14 points with Irish forward Diondra Toney adding 10 more. 

~-~~-------------·"" THE KNIGHTS I
I ~ri~ \.--;; 
" We are only I 
:· minutes from campus. We now have a brand new I MALE DEPARTMENT BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE.~ Haircuts are $6 with this coupon. 1 
277-1691 -' 


Mr. Christian's Dilemma 1989 Prairie Ave. 
234-4750 

-Live traditional Irish music every Friday and Saturday night. -Open stage Monday ­Thursday for Acoustic Musicians -Live String Quartet Friday lunches -Chess Tournaments -Come in and register {or free trip to Ireland for 2. Drawing May 20. (No purchase required) Kitchen 11 am to 8 pm daily Hours Man-Thurs 10 am to 10 pm Fri-Sat 10 am to Midnight Come join John Kennedy and friends. 
-
BEER 
Busch (24 cans)....$6.79 Miller (24 cans) .... $7.99 Lite (24 cans)....$7.99 Stroh's (30 pack) ..$7.99 Budwe1ser (24 cans) ...$8 57 Bud Light (24 cans) ..$8.57 Genuine Draft (24 cans)...$7.99 Hammes (24 cans)...$5.99 Hammes Light (24 cans) ...$5.99 
QUARTS 
Busch ......... $9.99 Old Style ..... $10.99 
LONGNECKS 
Budweiser {24 bottles) ..$?.99 Bud light (24 bottles)...$7.99 





-----------------CALL 
fOR SYR PARTifS 

Thursday, January 21, 1988 The Observer page 9 
Track team gets set for TAC 
By ROB PIERCE day's Indiana TAC. Irish. 
Sports Writer The meet brings all of the top A featured event could be the competitors in the state to 800-meter run, where three It's time to answer the bell Bloomington. And as was the Irish runners have hopes for a again. case in last weekend's season good showing. These runners Round two of the men's in­opener, points will be awarded include sophomore David door track season begins this on an individual basis rather Warth, who won the 1000­weekend, and given last week's than accumulated into a team meters at Purdue; freshman encouraging results in the total. Still, head coach Joe Mark Lavery, who finished Purdue Invitational, more is Piane anticipates another second behind Warth but has expected of the team in Satur-strong performance from the been sidelined with tendonitis; and sophomore Mike 

O'Connor, who is competing in his first race of the year. 


"It could happen," said The Observer 1 Bob Jones 
Lavery about the possibility of After starting Its season at Purdue last weekend, Dave Warth and 
an Irish sweep. "This is a good the Notre Dame men's track team go to Indiana University this 
bunch of guys." weekend to continue the Indoor season In the T AC. 

Auriol 
continued from page 12

READERS BECOME LEADERS 
have to take some time ofi work." 

This Spring THE NEW YORK TIMES is introducing a NEW 
Auriol moved from his native I>ISCOUNTI.:O STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION RATE, 25 cents, 
France to Portland, Ore., in 

MONDAY through SATURDAY, that's 50% below the newsstand 
On 1972 and formed the Salle 
price. 
Auriol Fencing Club, where in-

Contact Rick Reuter 
Wed. Jan. 27 1 ' 988 dividual and group instruction
283-3586 

Leave for Chicago 7 PM was given to private students. 
He also served as the wo­$11.00 men's fencing coach at 
!Jnlverslty o( Notre Dame 


Portland State from 1975 to 1985 Foreign Study 
Pay when you sign up in Junior Class and coordinated the fencing Programs 
office Wed, Thurs, and Fri. 3-5 PM, this program.Itdidn'ttakelongfor
people to notice his success. eek "I started that fencing pro­

~..;;...~------------------...1 gram in Oregon from zero," says Auriol. "That's where I
Mexico City, 
Mexico 
started getting the national recognition."

ND '61
INFORMATION MEETING Fall of 1988 
From that point on, Auriol

ironwood 

was a man in demand. Besides his previous Olympic assign­
wines and spirits 
ments, Auriol served as coach for the USA at the Junior World Championships from 1976 to 

Domestic and imported wines heers liquors. 
(219) 272-7144 
1979. He also guided the United States in the 1977 World Uni­

1725 NOI\Tlf lf{ONWOOO DH. SOUHI f3t:ND. IN -'HiG.'J5 
versity Games in Bulgaria and ALL ARE WELCOME 
at the 1978 World Champion­ships in Hamburg, West Ger­many. 


Auriol was nominated for the Olympic coaching position by 
WINTERFEST WINTERFEST 
Notre Dame men's coach Mike 

T 
DeCicco. Auriol says the selec­tion "is based on experience, and it is very helpful if one of the fencers you are coaching is on the squad." 
Auriol definitely has the first 
. 
requirement and has a good shot at fulfilling the second. Mike Marx is spending the year working as an assistant fencing coach at Notre Dame, and also is training with Auriol. Marx has already competed in the Pan American Games and, ac­cording to Auriol, has a "great shot" at making the team. 
In addition, senior Molly Sul­livan currently is ranked fourth nationally in the women's foil. Sullivan, who was a national champion as a sophomore, and her competition accumulate points in four tournaments and the national championships. Fencers also can receive points for performing well in European tournaments. The immediate goal for Auriol is to lead Notre Dame to a win in a four-team meet Saturday in Appleton, Wis. The Irish will compete against Wisconsin,

COMEDIAN BOB BATTLE 
Minnesota and Lawrence University.

former N.D. student 
But for Auriol, the coming months constitute another busy summer which is becoming

performing tonight at Theodore's 
9:00pm 
commonplace for him. 
"In May, I'll go with the

Free admission
ALUMNI ·

W 
SENIOR 
United States team to compete 

S red b Student Union Board 

in Europe," says Auriol. "The
/2-z_pm r:RIDAY3f 
National Championships are in

i!:CLUB 
WINTERFEST WINTERFEST 
June, and we hope to be a part

~or/tt!cur)JAI.iJ~ tanc,f. 
of them. Then in July, we are
ADWORKS 

WINTERFEST 
off to get the team together." 


page 10 The Observer Thursday, January 21, 1988 
NV A presents 2nd 
Cahill to be Late Night Olympics in Rolex 
Special to The Observer 

By CHRIS FILLIO Derengoski stressed that m Sports Writer order for a student to sign up for an event(s), it is necessary Ce Ce Cahill of the Notre 
1988 is starting out as an to contact his or her hall rep­Dame women's tennis team Olympic year in more respects resentative. Sign-ups should has qualified for the Rolex In­than one. not be made through the NVA door Championships Feb. 3-7 at 
The Late Night Olympics will office. Minneapolis, the team learned return to the Notre Dame You don't have to be a Wednesday. campus on Jan. 29. Mter an varsity-caliber athlete in order It marks the first time an overwhelming initial year and to participate in the Late Night Irish women's tennis playerwith anticipation growing, the Olympics. Last year's turnout has qualified for a major na­second event will take place resembled more of the Bob tional collegiate tournament. from 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. next Uecker and weekend-warrior Sponsored by the Intercol­Friday. genres. legiate Tennis Coaches Associ­
Part of the proceeds from the Likewise, the range of events ation, the Rolex Indoor Cham­Late Night Olympics will go to will suit nearly every athletic pionships invite a field of 32 the St. Joseph County chapter level. Unique LNO events this singles players. The top two of Special Olympics. year include nerf football, half­players in each region receive 
Last year's champions from court basketball, broomball, automatic bids. the StanfordLewis team once indoor soccer, whiffleball and Cahill, a freshman from again will attempt to come out the improved obstacle course. In her freshman season, Ce Ce Cahill has become the first Notre Hinsdale, Ill., received an at on top. However, an expanded New events include table tennis Dame women's tennis player to reach a national tournament. Irish large bid. She 1s ranked third number and greater variety of and arm wrestling. NVA also coach Michele Gelfman noted that a strong performance In next in the region behind two events, along with the addition will provide plenty of activities month's Rolex Invitational could help Cahill reach the NCAA's In players from Indiana Univer­of five Saint Mary's dorms in for spectators and non­the spring. sity.
the Olympics, may indicate in­competitors, such as ice creased competition for the skating, the dunk-tank, LNO­number one spot. robics, food, music and more. The grand prize going to the The hall representatives and 
winning dorms will include a all participants are reminded portion of the proceeds, to be that the deadline for sign-ups split among each dorm on the is Tuesday, Jan. 26. 
BUY 

The Governor's Fellowship Program 
OBSERVER 
seeks top 1987-88 bachelor's
CLASSIFIEDS 
graduates for management training 
team, and a yet to be an­nounced prize donated by the Alumni Association. 
"The emphasis is on playing and having fun," said Sally Derengoski, assistant director of Non-Varsity Athletics. "The Late Night Olympics are a mix of competing and socializing. It is important for (paired) halls to compete as a group. The need for coordination places great importance on the hall 
11IDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJS
1= Definition: Goal -when the puck enters from § ~ the front, passes between the cage posts below § I the top of the net and completely across the §I goal line. 
§  
I For several good examples join J.A.C.C. Notre Dame5= w. ~ North Dakota St.  us  at  the  ~ 5 !§=I  
§  Friday and Saturday 7:30p.m.  i  

program in state government 

Applications  available:  
Governor's  Fellowship Program  
Room 206  

State House Indianapolis, IN 46204 (.317)2.32-1762 
representatives." iimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIF. 
YourBasic YourBASIC 
Problem: Solution: 

The TI-74 BASICALC: The BASIC language programmable calculator from Texas Instruments. The mathematics and statistics cartridges are two offive optional application software available. 
The TI~ 7 4 BASICALC"" is user-definable keys which can make use than any other programmable Stop by your bookstore and see a BASIC calculator that's doing your coursework a basic snap. calculator. both sides of the TI-74 BASI CALC also an advanced scientific Switch to its calculator mode and Your BASICALC specs: for yourself. Either way, it'll blow 
you're armed with 70 scientific you away.
calculator. In effect, it's two • 8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM. 
functions to help you easily solve • 113 BASIC keyword set.
calculators in one. 
those tough technical problems. • Optional software cartridges for chemical In its BASIC mode, you have And the large, color-coded keys, engineering, math, statistics and finance. TEXAS. direct, two-keystroke access to 41 QWERTY keyboard and separate • Optional PASCAL language cartridge. BASIC commands, as well as 10 numeric keypad make it easier to • Optional printer and cassette interface. INSTRUMENTS 
™TrademarkofTexas Instruments Incorporated ©1988 Tl. 



Thursday, January 21, 1988 The Observer page 11 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 

STRIPES 
8:00 and 10:00 pm
Tonight 8 & 10 pm $1.00 
Cushing Auditorium Admission $1.00
CADDYSHACK 
Friday & Saturday Sponsored by Sub 
8:00 and 10:00 pm 
Thursday 12 p.m.: Brown Bag Seminar, "Struggles for Peace and Justice in Today's Latin America: The Work of Servicio," by Crueza Maciel, Executive Secretary of Servicio Paz y Justicia en America Latina, Institute for International Peace Studies, Room 101 Law School. 4 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture, "Observations on Human Rights Work in Post-Authoritarian Latin America," by Crueza Maciel, Room 131 Decio Hall. 4 p.m.: Seminar, "Photochemistry of Macromolecular Dyes and Metal Com­plexes," by Dr. Natarajan, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 6 p.m.: International Students Organization board meeting, ISO lounge. 7:30p.m.: Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania, JACC. 8 p.m.: Third Annual High School Women's Choir Festival, Nancy Menk, Saint Mary's College, director, Little Theatre. 10-11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives Talkshow with Hall Presidents' Council, WVFI­
AM 640, calls taken at 239-6400. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Tomato Soup Meatball Grinder Roast Turkey Salisbury Steak Mushroom Stroganoff 


M 
A T 
H 
1 
0 1 

Comics " 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Saint Mary's Meatloaf Turkey and Dumplings Cheese Blintzes with Apple Sauce Deli Bar 

ACROSS 1 Former 6 Delhi 
garments 11 Leased 13 Assumption 16 Atomic ­17 Merrymaker 18 -the hills 19 Mimic 21 Beef on the 
hoof 22 Chief 23 Rice dish 25 Handle 26 Consumed 27 Strips 29 Container 30 Probate 
concerns 32 Cunning 34 Eager 35 Bandleader 
Kenton 36 -de corps 39 Relation by 
marriage 42 New Guinea 
seaport 43 Customs word 45 Kinsman: 
abbr. 47 Bore 49 Coin receivers 50 Market or 
circus 51 Assumed name 
53 Primitive man 
for short 54 Skin Irritation 55 Get-togethers 57 Shuts tightly 
again 59 Fla. export 60 Novelist 
Laurence 61 Indigent 62 Salad 
ingredient 
DOWN 1 Churchman 2 Prepares 3 Peruvian 4 Baseball's Mel 
and kin 

©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc 
01121188

All Rights Reserved 
5 Antique car 6 Bed or bread 7 Exist 8 Guns a motor 9 "-man with 
seven ..." 10 Quiet 12 Exhausted 14 Playground 
piece 15 Chore 16 City In ltalia 20 And 23 Small sizes 24 Rots 27 Goliath 
toppler 28 Form 31 Paving stuff 


33 People who 
care: abbr. 35 Machine parts 36 Tex. city 41 Pins and -52 Wise 37 Gob 44 Elegant 54 Consumer 38 Big-billed bird 46 Asian land 56" Was ahead 39 Untidy one 48 Singer Frankie 58 Catch-all 40 "Maid of -" 50 "-Jacques" abbr. 
Far Side Gary Larson 

Calvin and Hobbes 
... GEE I I WIS\-\ '(O\J (0\JLD 
SIA.'< roRt.Y£1<.. 
I 



Sports 
page 12 


Thursday, January 21, 1988 

Auriol selected as Olympic coach 
"This year it is again a greatBy RICK RIETBROCK honor," explains Auriol. "It
Assistant Sports Editor 

will be very exciting to go to This kind of thing just doesn't Korea because nearly every­get old. 
one is competing for the first For the third consecutive time in a while." time, Notre Dame women's 
Handling competition hasn't fencing coach Yves Auriol has 
been a problem for Auriol as been selected as one of three 
Notre Dame's head coach. United States Olympic Sporting a career 46-0 reco~d since coming to Notre Dame m 
coaches. 

Auriol joins Dr. Aladar 1986, Auriol is looking to guide Kogler and Csaba Elthes to 
the Irish to a successful defense lead the 1988 U.S. fencing 
of their national championship. squad, and he says each time 
Providing a winner in the he has been selected it has 
Olympics, however, may be a meant something special. difficult assignment. "The first time (1980) was ob­"It's going to be tough to do viously a great thrill and quite well " says Auriol, who will 
, ' 

an honor," says Auriol. "Un­guide the men's and women s 
fortunately, we didn't compete epee teams at the O~ympics. 
because of the American "The Europeans tram year­boycott. 
round. Our average age will be "In 1984, the Olympics were about 25 or 26, so if our fencers held in Los Angeles which train like they should, they 
made it another very special 
see AURIOL, page 9 
event. 


The Obselver /Trey Reymond Jamere Jackson and the rest of the Notre Dame basketball team hope the Irish have all the right stuff In home games with Penn tonight and with Kansas on Saturday. 

The Observer I Susan Coene 

The defending national champion women's fen-Yves Auriol will head the men's and women's clng team will have to share Its head coach with epee teams In the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics. the rest of the country for a while. Irish coach 
Penn Quakers come to JACC 
Irish hope to 'get well' tonight 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Ivy League title in Head Coach look at the scores every mor­Tom Schneider's second year. ning in the paper," Phelps said. 
Sports Editor 

Its reward was an NCAA first­"Nobody is invincible, and. 
When you were little, your round game, and 113-92 loss, anyone is capable of upsetting mom may have told you to eat against North Carolina. The anyone else. Look at Penn, with Quaker Oats on a cold day be­main reason for Penn's prob­an awfully young team, beating 
cause they were good for you. lems this season has been the LaSalle. The list of upsets 
A similar scenario is on tap loss of four starters and 75 per­already this year is amazing." tonight at the Joyce Center as cent of its scoring_ from last the Irish will look to get well season's squad. Among the The 9-4 Irish are ranked 12th against the Quakers of Penn­losses were Perry Bromwell in the nation in rebounding sylvania. Tipoff is set for 7:30 and Bruce Lefkowitz, the num­margin with a 6.1 average 
p.m. ber two and six, leading scorers thanks to the efforts of Keith in Quaker history, respective­Robinson (7.5 rpg), Gary Voce 
Coming off a disappoining 77-ly. (6.8) and Scott Paddock (5.3). 71loss to DePaul last Saturday This season, 6-4 senior for­and facing a date with 16th­ward Tyrone Pitts is the top Offensively, senior guard ranked Kansas, Penn may be Quaker with a 16.9 points per David Rivers has been carry, what the Irish need to get back game scoring average and a 6.7 ing the load, averaging 23.5 on track. rebouds per game average. points per game and scoring in 
The Quakers are 2-8 after a Ben Spiva, a 6-7 freshman, has double figures in every game 61-59 victory over St. Francis been averaging 8.3 points and this season. (Pa.) Monday night. Their only 4.9 boards per contest. On the The Irish will need a other win was a 66-61 victory backcourt, 6-2 junior Walt recovered Mark Stevenson to over city rival LaSalle on Dec. Frazier has averaged 7.2 points take some of the burden from 
5. Since then, the season's been and 3.7 assists a night. Rivers. Stevenson is averaging a death march for the Quakers, 12.2 points per game, but as they've faced and been As for Irish head coach Dig­played just 15 minutes against drilled by the likes of Indiana ger Phelps, he's making sure' DePaul after spraining his left (94-54), UCLA (98-49), Temple his squad won't be among one big toe and suffering a cut (84-50) and Georgia Tech (79-of the many upset victims of above his left eye (which 55). recent weeks. needed 12 stitches to close) 
Last season, Penn finished "It has been a strange year against Yale last Wednesday with a 13-14 mark and won the in college basketball when you night. 
SMC's 'peerless prognosticator' predicts Super Bowl 
As Super Bowl XXII nears people all over the detect the differences. John Elway is a Every member of the Broncos has set his goal country are giving their predictions about the out­phenomenal quarterback and the experience of at nothing short of gaining a Super Bowl ring. The come. The bettors range from professional playing in last year's Super Bowl will give him Broncos started celebrating their victory early gamblers in Las Vegas to amateurs in South Bend. the advantage. last Sunday, but Reeves will not allow the party Over the weekend I heard people everywhere In Washington's Joe Gibbs and Denver's Dan to begin again until after Super Bowl XXII is over. giving their choice for the 1988 Super Bowl cham­Reeves, both teams have excellent head coaches Recent Super Bowl games have been an­pions. who already have Super Bowl experience. The ticlimatic because one one of the teams had alredy 
People began soliciting my opinion on various 
peaked in a previous playoff game. This year nei­football games after my successful season as one Jane ther team has yet peaked and the first half should of The Observer's "peerless prognosticators." be close. Denver, with the superior offense, will 
CBS has not yet asked me to fill the shoes of Shea dominate the second half. Jimmy the Greek, but it is unlikely that I can. Nevertheless, for people who are curious here is For my past predictions I must admit there were 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor
my prediction. some teams of which I had little knowledge.
Last Sunday Cleveland and Minnesota suffered teams are the best in their conferences and However, I have heard and read about the Broncos 
loses because of skillful defensive plays by Denver deserve their places in the Super Bowl. and Washington for the past season and believe I and Washington. The losing teams both had the The New York Giants crushed Denver in the can make an educated guess. Unlike past predic­chance to tie the games, but the strong defenses Super Bowl last year, and the Broncos have had tions, I shall not pick a team because I have friends stopped them. to live with that for a year now. Mter a year of or family in the team's city. My choice comes 
Denver and Washington have defenses that are being the forgotten second place team, Denver after much deliberation and team analyses. Den­closely matched, but their offenses are where I wants to be number one. ver should win by a score of 33-21. 





