Warming up 
Becoming partly sunny and warmer Friday with a high near 
IACCENT: New Year's doldrums 
30. Mostly clear Friday night and a low in the low to mid
IVIEWPOINT: The excesses of athletics 
20s. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 69 FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Japan pledges to work for 'dialogue and cooperation' 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -Japanese Prime Minister Noboru Takes­hita pledged on Thursday to work for an era of "dialogue and cooperation" with the United States to improve the world economy, but U.S. calls continued for more specific steps by Japan to reduce its trade surplus.  Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., said Japanese leaders have made promises before, yet the trade gap grows. On one of the current major sore points, U.S. inability to penetrate Japan's construction market, U.S. Trade Represen­tative Clayton Yeutter said a proposal brought by Takeshita falls short of expectations and that the Reagan administra­ tion would consider retaliatory action. Takeshita, on his first visit to the United States since taking office in November, vowed after a three-hour meeting with President Reagan on Wednes­day to work to improve rela­tions between the two nations, stabilize financial markets and play a larger role in helping the world's debtor countries.  He expanded on those themes Thursday in a speech and question-answer session at the National Press Club, the only speaking engagement on his three-day trip to Washington. "The Japanese-American al­liance is now entering a new age in which it must not only serve the interests of our two countries but must also con-' tribute to a better future for the  entire world," he said. The world must be tran~ formed from "a place of con­frontation and conflict into a place of dialogue and coopera­tion," he said. "Let us create a global partnership of Japan and the United States dedi­cated to peace and prosperity on our planet earth by combin­ing our efforts to get things done."  
Arafat calls U.S.  
to accept PLO  
Associated Press  the  Palestine  Liberation  Or­ 
BAGHDAD, IRAQ  -Yasser  . ganization leader said. He said resolutions passed by  
Arafat said yesterday he will  the  U.N.  General  Assembly  
recognize Israel's right to exist  supporting Palestinians' right  
if it and the United States ac­ to  an  independent  homeland  
cept PLO participation in an in­ternational Middle East peace conference.  and calling for Israeli withdrawal from land seized in the 1967 war also must be in­ 
He said such a conference  cluded in the forum.  
must  be  based  on  all  U.N.  Security Council resolutions  
resolu~ions,  not  just No.  242.  are  binding on U.N. member  
That resolution was passed ~fter the 1967 Middle East war  nations but those passed by the General Assembly are not.  
by the Security Council and calls for recognition of Israel's right to exist within secure bor­ders in return for its withdrawal from occupied ter­ritories.  To reassure Israel about its security beside any Palestinian state, Arafat said, he would al­low U.N. troops to patrol the border on Palestinian terri­tory.  
"We would accept 242" in the context of a conference, Arafat  Israel considers the PLO a terrorist organization and  
said in an interview at his mil­ refuses  to  deal  with  it.  The  
itary headquarters in Jadiriya, a southern suburb of Baghdad. "As this conference would be under U.N. auspices, that means the full legality of all  United States has rejected direct negotiations with the PLO in Middle East peace ef­forts. In Israel, Foreign Ministry  
U.N. resolutions, including 242 and 338" would be recognized,  see  PEACE,  page  4  


Arias shares blame for peace plan failure 
region's five chief executives. would not be thinking in terms compliance with the accord He said President Reagan's
Associated Press 
"There has always been an ex­of offering more military sup­signed in Guatemala on. A.ug. 7 new security adviser, Lt. Gen. 
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA -cuse not to comply." port to the rebel forces in by Arias and the presidents'of Colin Powell, "never President Oscar Arias on But Arias rejected the sug­Central America," he said. Nicaragua, El ,Salvador, threatened reprisals" during a Thursday blamed himself and gestion that the Central Arias, who won the 1987 Guatemala and Hondllras. recent tour of Central America. the other Central American Americans are powerless to Nobel Peace Prize for devising The Costa Rican president Arias said he wrote a presidents for their failure to shape their own destiny in the and promoting the peace plan, vehemently denied that the strongly worded letter to Or­achieve the major goals of his face of interference by the su­declined to say whether he United States had pressured tega on Wednesday about peace plan. perpowers of East and West. would seek an extension of the him to lean on President Daniel Nicaragua's failure to live up 
"There hasn't been the poli­"All I can tell you is that if initiative beyond Friday's Ortega of Nicaragua for his to the accord only because he tical will to comply," Arias told we had complied already, there summit. failure to obtain a cease-fire or had not had a chance to com­a news conference on the eve would be no more war in the The meeting was to have achieve other major goals of municate with the Sandinista of a summit meeting of the region and the superpowers marked the final deadline for the Arias plan. leader in recent days. 

Army sergeant charged with espionage for the Soviets 
Associated Press tank turret division at Aber­Ma). Gen. Harry Soyster, com­rest site. They said that Rich­speaking on condition of 
deen, was arrested shortly mander of U.S. Army Intelli­ardson evidently initiated the anonymity, said that if Rich­
WASHINGTON -An Army after noon at the Chesapeake gence and Security Command, contact with the Soviets and ardson had actually delivered sergeant stationed at the Aber­House Holiday Inn in Aber­INSCOM. that federal authorities moni­the information, that would deen Proving Grounds in deen, the FBI said. tored those contacts. As a have been in the charge. Maryland was arrested "Richardson is accused of at­Federal law enforcement result, a federal undercover Richardson, of Oakland,Thursday on charges of at­tempting to deliver informa­sources speaking on condition agent set up a meeting with Calif., joined the Army in 1968. tempting to deliver defense in­tion relating to national of anonymity said the informa­Richardson that resulted in his His specialty is tank turret formation to the Soviet Union, defense to a representative of tion involved was not classified arrest. repairman and he is qualifiedthe FBI announced. the U.S.S.R.," spokesman and had to do with the tank tur­as an instructor. He is assigned 
William Carter said, reading ret division. It appeared that no informa­to the 601st Ordnance Bat­Sgt. Daniel Walter Richard­from a statement issued by FBI The sources also said that tion actually changed hands. talion, which is based at Aber­son, 42, an instructor in the Director William Sessions and there was no Soviet at the ar-One law enforcement source, deen. 


A 


In Brief 
Judge Bork resigned as a federal appeals court judge, saying he wants to correct "a public campaign of miseducation" that thwarted his nomination to the Su­preme Court, the White House announced yesterday. Pres­ident Reagan reluctantly accepted Judge Robert Bork's request to step down from the U.S. court of Appeals for the District of Columbia after six years, effective Feb. 5. He called the conservative judge's defeat in the Senate "a tragedy for our country." "All Americans are the poorer today for not having your extraordinary talents and legal skills on the high court," Reagan told Bork in a letter. -Associated Press 
Sarah's pregnant according to a London newspaper. Prince Andrew's wife was announced as expecting the couple's first child yesterday, but Buckingham Palace would neither confirm nor deny the report. The Sun, Brit­ain's biggest-selling newspaper with a circulation of 4 mil­lion, said the 28-year-old Duchess of York is expecting a baby at the end of July. The couple married on July 23, 1986. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Peter''theWhip''Abowd,aseniorelectricalengineering major, will be performing an original music concert tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, featuring "100 Years," a tribute to Notre Dame football, and other original compositions. -The Observer 
Right to Life D.C. ma~chers'will hold a sign painting and details meeting Sunday, Jan. 17 at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre of the LaFortune Student Center. The bus fee will be collected at this time. -The Observer 
A luau will be held in the Stepan Center Saturday night, beginning at 9 p.m .. The luau, sponsored by the Student Union Board, features a dunk tank, slip and slide, volLey­ball, food and 'a D.J.-The Observer 
Interview Sign-Up Orientation Session will be held in the Career & Placenlent Services Conference Room on Monday, Jan. 18 at 2:30p.m. and Jan. 19 at 4 p.m. Those who are new to the interviewing sign-up process should attend one of these presentations. -The Observer 
Ice skating tonight at the J.A.C.C. from 10:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Free skate rentals, hot chocolate, and donuts will be provided. -The Observer 
Teams can still be formed for the 1988campus-wide college bowl tournament, to be held starting Jan. 29. Rules and entry applications are available at the Center for Con­tinuing Education information desk. The deadline for ap­plications is Jan. 25. For more information, contact Dr. Lombardo at 239-7005. -The Observer 
1 
Summerserviceproject~plicationsmaybepicked up during the month of ~nuary at the Centet for Social Concerns. The dea.dline for returning applications is Feb. 
1. For more infarmation call 239-5293. -The Observer 
Sophomore class mass will be held this Sunday, Jan. 17, at Sacred Heart Church. Father Leveille will celebrate mass at 3 p.m. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 


Design Editor ................ Chris Donnelly Viewpoint layout . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .. . Julie Ryan Design Aosistant ............... Joe Zadrozny Ad Design ........................... Molly Killen News Editor ....................... Cathy Stacy Accent Copy Editor .. Elizabeth Cornwell CQPI/ Editor ........................ Liz Panzica Accent layout ..................... Carolyn Rey Sport• CopJI Editor.......... Marty Strasen Typist .................................. Will Zamer Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor ................ Kathy McKee ......................................... Shawn Sexton SMC Day Editor.. .. ....... Karin Rader Viewpoint copy editor .. .. Matt Slaughter Photographer ................ Susy Hernandez 
De ot.ner (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. neObeerYer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writina De Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame,lndiana 46556. 
ne Olllener is a member of ne Allodated Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Censorship ruling too restrictive for the press 
"High court backs schools on censorship," read the front page headline in yesterday's Chicago Tribune. Justice Byron White, in the majority opinion, stated that educators may ex­ercise "editorial control over the style and con­tent of student speech in school-sponsored ex­pressive activities so long as their actions are reasonably related to legitimate pedagogical concerns." 
The decision was the result of a case involving the censorship of two articles dealing with teenage pregnancy and divorce slated to appear in a high school newspaper. 
Censorship occurs frequently in school publications, though this is the first time a case has reached the Supreme Court. In fact, we have had a similar example recently on campus, with the controversy surrounding Scholastic's publication of a sexually explicit painting in conjunction with an article on cen­sorship. 
The decision itself seems fair. If the newspa­per is school-sponsored, then the school is act­ing as publisher. If the school is putting up th~ cash, it can print whatever it wants. Or not print whatever it doesn't want. 
What scares me, though, is the precedent that 
the Supreme Court has set. 
Apparently some of the justices are worried too. " ... The court today teaches youth to dis­count important principles of our government as mere platitudes," wrote Justice William Brennan in the minority opinion. 
Freedom of the press is seen by many, I think, as mere self-righteousness n the part of jour­nalists and pompous television broadcasters. But. there is a reason for journalists to uphold the First Amendment with an almost religious fervor. 
Abridging freedom of the press can be much like a snowball, as many precedents set by courts are. The current decision sounds in­nocuous enough. It only applies to high schools 
-this was stressed in the decision -and only applies to articles that violate "the shared values of a civilized social order." 
But who decides what those values are? And should any newspaper, school-sponsored or not, be limited to publishing only the correct values? The Soviet Union has been under such restric­Hnn~ fnr many years, and we certainly point 
people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
Mark 

Mclaughlin 
Projects Manager 

enough fingers at Pravda. 
The restriction of the decision to only high schools will slowly fade away. Sooner or later, some beleaguered college in the midst of a con­troversy will sue its student paper for printing incorrect values that are supposedly contrary to the school's 'educational mission.' Notre Dame, to its credit, has not contemplated such a move. But sometime soon, it will happen somewhere, thanks to the Supreme Court's en­couragement. 
The Supreme Court decision, at least the parts of it that were reprinted in an admittedly biased Chicago newspaper, smacks of a "Papa knows best" attitude. The court seems to be saying that we can't expose young adults and teenagers to material that might be "poten­tially sensitive." God forbid, they might even be exposed to the real world, or even (dare I say it in a college newspaper) S-E -X? 
Maybe we should lock everone under the age of 18 in small white rooms with no television sets. Then they definitely won't be exposed to the dangers of a free press. 

LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a lilesav1ng Red Crass CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
IIJIIIIIIIIIIUHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII,QUES TI 0 N slllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll! 
I'l tl or ~ I
I' • • PROBLEMS • I 
I ~ co:::r:i::w~:: ? 't ? I 
i hours: 7 -8 pm i 
11

I • Monday through Thursday ? I i 307 LaFortune Student Center • i
i -c.-.1° ~, ~\.t:":J o..§'(\~' \(\\OI ~~e ~ ~v'f.e e--le c~e -o.(\0. o\.e\ ~ ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH~ 

ND '61

ironwood wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines heers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NOf\Til IRONWOOD DK SOUl II f3[ND, If" -'H>GY':> 
Friday, January 15, 1988 

The Observer I Susy Hernandez

Right on cue 
Freshman Jim Nelis and Senior Ann Tankersley audition for "Amadeus" in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's Thursday. Open auditions con­tinue today for both "Amadeus" and "Glass Menagerie". 
COUNSELINE Volunteers Wanted!!! 
************* 

We'll begin operating again soon. We still have 2 hour shifts to fill. So if ... 
-Your want to help provide a valuable community service to ND-SMC -You can spare just a couple of hours of easy volunteer work in a nice study environment (the number and manner of handling calls is rarely demanding) -Your could use something extra to look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 

...then ask for Dave at the University Counseling Center or just leave a message. 239-7336. 
The Observer page 3 
Journal commends ND food 
By ANGELA MCDONALD News Staff 
A recent article in the Wall Street Journal commended Notre Dame on the improve­ment of its modernized food service. 
Notre Dame as well as ap­proximately eight hundred uni­versities around the country are saying good-bye to the monotonous cafeteria style food service and welcoming a modern and personal atmo­sphere, the article said. Wil­liam Hickey, director of Notre Dame's food service said in the artical, "No longer can we work with traditional food ser­vices because students are re­questing foods that can be found in any restaurant." Notre Dame is complying with these requests. The renovation of the Huddle created a diverse style of food service as well as a warm and friendly environ­ment. 
The success of the Leprec­haun Pizza Company; which is located in the Huddle, has also drawn the attention of the Wall Street Journal. 
"The effort is to restauran­tize the campus," said William Hickey in the Wall Street Jour­nal. Hickey feels that adding these improvements will help •o cater to the students' need for a more personable atmo­sphere. 
"We believe in treating stu­dents as customers instead of institutionalized individuals," he added. This is one of the main reasons for the renova­tion of the North Dining Hall, he said, which should be com­pleted by December of 1988.. 
Hickey was said everyone at last March's National Food Servioe meeting was spel­lbound at the design of the Huddle. "They called it state of the art, " Hickey added. 
"It's  the  attitude.  That's  
what makes  us  different and  
that's  what  makes  us  the  

leaders,"he said. 




Verdict: ND food is good 
By GREG LUCAS senior Staff Reporter 
Lisa Larabee Legal Assistant Santa Fe Southern Pacific 
' Tboe Lawyer's AuiotaDI Propam In cooperauon W1th 'The NauonaJ Center for ParaJegaJ Trauuna A20 
-..hu.n...,;~y 
N~<---------------------­
Join 

• 
CllH:qo IL 60605 Addn:ss --------------------Cuy -----Stale----Z1p __ -~ 
Home Phone Busmru Phone 

The Observer 





Security Beat . 
Monday
2:20p.m. A minor two-vehicle acci­dent was reported at the Main Gate 
6:15 p.m. The manager of the Alumni-Senior Club reported a water pipe leak in the main lobby of the building. Damage estimates are un­known. 
Woman says she bombed plane to stop Olympics 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA -a woman linked to the destruc­tion of a South Korean airliner with 115 people aboard confessed on television Friday that she was a Communist North Korean agent and said she planted a bomb on '•\~e plane. 
She identified herself as Kim Hyong-hee and said she and a' male companion blew up the plane to disrupt the 1988 Olym­pic Games in Seoul and create unrest in the south. 
The woman said the two of 
them planted a bomb made 
from liquid explosive disguised 
in a liquor bottle and a 
detonator hidden in a radio and 
left it on the plane. 
"It is natural that I ~ould be 
punished and killed a hundred 
times for my sin," the 25-year­
old woman told a nationally 
televised press conference. 
Her male companion killed 
himself last month. He was 
identified as Kim Sung Il, 69, a 
North Korean intelligence 
agent and a member of the 
ruling North Korean Commu­
nist Party. 
South Korean intelligence 
agents said Ms. Kim was acting 
on the personal orders of Kim 
Jong Il, son and political heir 
of top North Korean leader Kim 
Il Sung. 
Ms. Kim, who said she was 
from the North Korean capital 
of Pyongyang, said she initially 
refused to answer questions 
about the plane to shield Kim 
Jong Il. She used his formal title 
of "dear leader." 
"I had denteq, ~ing involved 
in .~he in<;ident to keep secret 
the autlioritiy of the'• dear 
leader to the end," she said. 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
demonstration of the double talk of Mr. Arafat." 
"We never took these state­ments seriously in the past, and we don't take them seriously now," he said. 
Added A vi Pazner, an aide to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir: ''there is nothing new in what Arafat proposes. He knows perfectly well that Is­rael is not ready to negotiate with him." 
In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said of Arafat's remarks: 
"Our position on the interna­tional peace conference is that there has to be direct negotia­tions between Israel and its neighbors, but we also feel that an international peace confer­ence perhaps could be a helpful vehicle." 
"We have pressed, as all na­spokesman Ehud Gol said the 
8:30p.m. l\ badin Hall resident re­$850. The vehicle was found off ported 'that she lost her purse in the campus in the Northeast Neighbor­South Dining Hall. Hef loss is esti­hood. mated at $170. 4:44a.m. A vehicle parked in the D2 Tuesday lot was vandalized. 2:24a.m. A University employee re­2 p.m. Unknown persons unsuccess­
ported the theft of his vehicle from fully attempted to break into the var­the C2 lot. His loss is estimated at sity equipment room at Notre Dame 

PLAY YOUR CARDS RIGHT AND 
YOU'LL GET MORE SPECIAL SAVINGS. 
Stadium. Damage is estimated at 
Wednesday

$200. 
6:30p.m. A Brownson Hall resident

6:50p.m. A University employee re­
reported the theft of his bookbag and 

ported that she lost her purse in Cus­
the contents from South Dining Hall 

hing Hall. Her loss is estimated at 
sometime between 12:30 and 1 p.m. 

$120. 
His loss is estimated at $273. 






~~'~ 
Sometimes we just don't know when to stop. Not only does Domino's Pizza& deliver a great deal like Doubles­two pizzas for one special price-but now we've topped that off with even more savings. And Domino's Pizza delivers its freshly-baked, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Or we'll slice another $3 off the price. So clip these coupons and call Domino's Pizza today. 
,................, 
I 
I Great I I Meal I I Deal $8.88 
I 
I Just $8.88 for two regular I small cheese pizzas. I Not valid with any other I offer. Additional toppings I available at reaular price I I Expires: 1!31188 I I I 
I 
Vahdat part1c1pat1ng stores only. Customer pays applicable sales tax. 
I ®
I 
I 


L.••••••••••••••.J 
OUR HOT, FRESH PIZZA MAKES THESE DEALS WINNERS. 

II 
I I 

II. 
a 

Call Us! 
South Bend 

-277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Limited delivery area. 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00. 
c 1988 Oommo·s P1zza. Inc 


r-··------------.,
I Think I I Thick Ii $6.00 
I Only $6.00 for a 12"' pizza
I with thick crust, extra cheese and pepperoni. Good on Thursdays only. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offer.

IJ•
E>p;re, W1A!a 
I I 
I 
Valid al part1cipaling stores only I ~~slomer pays applicable sales 1
._______________.J 


r-···-----------.,
I Dinner I for 4 I $10.99 I 
I 
Ask for the D1nner for 4 1 special and get a 16"" 1 two-topping pizza plus 1 four icy cold 12 oz. cans 1 of Coke' for just $10.99. 1 One coupon per order. 1 Not valid with any other 1 offer. 1 
I Expires 1!31188 II 
I I
I
I Valid at part1c1patmg stores only 11 ~~stomer pays appl1cable sales I 
L.---------------1 
PLO proposal "is yet another tions have, for recognition of Israel. I don't have a direct response to his proposal." 


Viewpoint
Friday, January 15, 1988 page 5 
Success and failure are closely related ideas. Each depends on the other for its meaning. Each as well has a very strong grip on American society, particularly in business and sports. 

Donald Gutierrez 
guest column 
College and professional sports are of course not just for the purpose of having fun; they comprise a massive commercial activity in our society. Cer­tainly, enjoyment still exists in sports, both amateur and professionally. Gen­erally, though, the attitude conveyed by many people involved in sports is that they are a very serious matter indeed--victory at times is almost a matter of life or death. 
One reason for this desperate outlook is that big money is involved today in sports success even on the collegiate level. A successful sports program means more publicity for the school which leads to enlarged or stable en­rollments and alumni support. Moreover, thanks partly to the mass media, the audience for sports in un­precedentedly large, which thus offers a vast audience for commercial adver­tising. When a college or university receives a post-season bowl or NCAA­playoff invitation, it can lead to a school receiving money running into seven­digit sums. 
Television-sports programming can also result in the successful advertising of products. This has led to an identifi­cation of sports and commercial values: the "X" Corporation's automo­bile battery is a winner; the "Y" Radial Tire Compnay has a strong offensive line to defend you and your family in bad winter driving. Success in these business terms raises serious ethical questions about the role of sports in our society. Should sports be manipulated by business interests for commercial "success"? And if victory in sports is seen as similar to victory over a busi­ness competitor, sports itself becomes commercialized, and loses many of the virues that some hold it instills in the young. A win by, say, the San Francisco 49ers translates into a record-breaking year for Exxon. 
Success in modern mass-media sports has thus come more and more to suggest, not just defeating the other team, but a blatant celebration of com­mercial victory, mostly through ap­plauding one's own product and 

Doonesbury 


Our infatuation with sports needs limits 
downgrading the other "team's," a practice not traditionally regarded as good sportsmanship. Considering, however, what part successful col­legiate athletic performance plays in providing careers in professional sports, the strong pressure in sports towards commercialized success be­comes evident. 

No one who enjoys modern sports (including myself) can deny their spec­tacular skill, excitement, and glamor. Athletes exhibit feats of agility, timing, coordination, and team-play that would have been considered impossible in the Forties or Fifties. This increased sports skill offers great pleasure and excite­ment to the spectator. Who can forget Kareem Jabbar's "sky-hook" shot at the climax of a key game, Joe Mon­tana's or Joe Theisman's successful scramblings and pin-point passing, the feisty and furious counter-service game of a Jimmy Connors? 
Associated with such skills and ex­citement is the glamor of big sports. Part of this glamor is the money. People who make very large salaries often seem to possess akind of magic, and one suspects in the increasingly frequent use of terms like "superstar" that the implied greatness and obvious glamor derives in part from the in­credibly large salaries and the opulent "lifestyles" which such money allows. 
Yet what people are questioning today is whether any athlete is worth over $2,000,000 a year (a question one should also ask about Pop Rock artists, movie stars, and corporation heads). Does Magic Johnson, marvellous bas­ketball player that he is, deserve a $25,000,000-25 year contract? One is told that if free enterprise makes such salaries possible, then an athlete is "worth" whatever money his skills) or those of his agent) can acquire for him. Isn't that part of the American Dream, of the Horatio Alger myth of rags to riches? In this country, supposedly anyone can become a millionaire. 
Whether true or not, is this really a worthy or civilized ideal? The desire to make as much money as posible, to make far more than we need even to live comfortably, is a form of greed, and the "ideal" of greed usually does more harm than good to both an indi­vidual and to a society, because it stifles self-denial, kindness, mag­nanimity, a sense of limits, or that for­gotten but still valuable phrase and idea, "social consciousness." Never­theless, one must question whether it is ethical for a professional athlete or 
...ANO YOIJR 50(JL. 

UH-OH... I'M 6&TTIN6 
tt/IU GReW IAJITH 

A '3TRONG Vll!Jb FRJJM
tAQ/ tJFf3. THEW, 

MY /?&GR£55/0N TH&RAP/5!... 
\__....._
~ /NTH& 20THCE.N· ~ lVI?Y, W IAJIU 51//?F! I 

Pop-music-star or lawyer or doctor to make, say $100,000 to $2,000,000 a year, while many high school teachers are still making $18,000, garbage collectors less, and full-time typists as little as $9,000 a year. 
Athletes have understandably tried to justify their big salaries (and one should add that not all professional ath­letes make huge salaries) . Both Julius Erving and Steve Garvey have claimed in interviews that a player has only a relatively small number of years in which to make money; injuries can in­trude anytime to cut a career short, and the period of one's peak perfor-. mance could be just a few years. Ath­letes have to make what money than can during their relatively short playing career. 
"We dangerous I y corrupt our sense of 
proportion  in  making  
demigods  of  our  
celebrities."  

At least as ·regards the salaries of stars, this argument is not persuasive. Some of these athletes are making mil­lions of dollars in just a few years, and if they handle their money sensibly or· shrewdly, end up dometimes with im­pressive capital, investing in stock, buying restaurants and real estate and sportsgear businessess, not to mention making very lucrative advertisements. In the process, some athletes are be­coming well off indeed, compared to the average clerical worker or teacher, artist or janitor, who usually struggles to make a living. 
Athletes are our culture heroes. If they make the professional ranks and do well, ·we reward them generously, too generously, in view of the fact that they are not genuinely significant heroes. The endless inflation of sports feats and athletes by the media is a fraud that the public and particularly young people should be more critical of, so that they can reduce the corrup­tion of values in our society already induced by our national obsession with making a lot of money as the path to success. It is disturbing to watch sportscasters build up some athletic strategy or comeback or modesty in victory as if it were an achievement in character equal to the tactical miliatry genius of a Julius Caesar, the fortitude of a deafened Beethoven, the humility of a St. Francis. 
Garry Trudeau 
We dangerously corrupt our sense of 
proportion in making demigods of our 
celebrities. Human beings who receive, 
far more money or fame or power than 
anyone deserves sometimes have great 
trouble realizing that they are human 
like the rest of us, and indeed in some 
ways might lack skills, virtues, or 
values that the "average" person 
might possess. 
One of the high costs of the "crises"­of-victory psychology in sports is the deep sense of failure that it adds to a society already obsessed with winning in business, law, and other areas of en­terprise, and thus pervaded with "los~rs" and the "agony of defeat." Yet, life itself is not necessarily or primarily comprised of victory or defeat. Both "sides" can win in some basic activities or relationships. A mar­riage can tQlerate no losers it it is to survive meaningfully. In opera, ballet, jazz, public readings, everyone, includ­ing the audience, must pull together for these public arts to achieve success. 
These standards of success and fail­ure have been heavily and cruelly im­posed upon vital areas of our society, and thus have become dangerous to our personal and national well-being. If these standards were more flexible and humane, the "failures" in our society could feel more esteemed, enjoy life more, add to the joy and contentment around them, and thus help to make a happier society that we now behold. 


"Human beings .who receive far m o r e money or fame o r power than anyone deserves sometimes have great ·trouble realizing that they are human like the rest of us." 

Nor would some highly successful people feel that they are walking a tightrope. We need to put sports back in the proper perspective, so that they do not dominate our sense of significant values with falsely charged standards of success and failure. 
Donald Gutierrez teaches in the Depar­tment of English at Western New Mexico University and was a Notre Dame Research Fellow in the Fall of 
1987. 
11/Aff.l 
IAJ&R& 


Quote of the Day 
lH&PUN/C. 
a!ARS TH£3 
tuA/?5 70 CNI? 

"Your friends will know
AUIA/AJ<S?
\ 

you better in the first minute you meet than your acquaintances will know you in a thousand years. " 
Richard Bach Illusions 


Editorial Board Operations Board


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Kitten
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Ghris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of 
Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindete
the adminiStration of 811her 1nshtut10n. The News 1s reported as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Ms Manager ...................... Laura Stanton
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opimon of the maJority of the Editorial Board. 
Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll
Commentanes. IaMers and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying op1mons on campus. through IaMers. 1s encouraged 
Founded November3, 1966 
' 

~ ---------------~--------­




Accent 
Friday, January 15, 1988 

page 6 
Doldrums during the new year 
from deteriorating. Stupid swered: "It depends on whom 
two weeks in London, habits could bring an early you ask." I said: "What do your relieved to be free of standing defeat to the dreams you have folks think of your going to In line with the rest of the for yourself. That is why, in a Nicaragua?" He answered: crowd, waiting around airports. Christian community, you have "They understand how I feel." As much as I love England, I elders sitting around like croak­.Irish parents should under­don't feel faced with a re-entry Ing bullfrogs, advising you stand the sorrow of boys going . problem, getting used to Notre about the danger of "t.t.s." sit­to die in political wars. In the Dame again. Dr. Johnson said: uations. Clerican bullfrogs are kingdom of the blind, the one­"When a man is tired of Lon­apt to be disregarded, as Cas­eyed man shall be king. Is it don, he is tired of life." It sandra was disregarded by the only in hindsight that you can seems to me that if a man Greeks. A prophetess, Cas­tell the blind man from the 
were tired of life, London could sandra was fated to predict seers? drive him or her crazy, since it only the truth, but never to be Last semester's controversies is an over-crowded city, and believed. Do the young wish to are not worth re-hashing again. All the elders here, lay or cleri­cal, wish the students well; they Father Robert Griffin 
are, I hope, like parents who want the best for the children Letters to a Lonely God in the house. Sidney Smith, an English cleric noted for his wit, observed two women shouting be allowed to make their own out of windows in apartments 
I 
'm just off the plane from 
standing in queue is part of the on the opposite sides of the
lifestyle every Londoner must mistakes? Naturally they do; street. "They'll never agree,"
face. Can it be said that if a even clerics understand that. decided Smith, "because
student is tired of Notre Dame, But clerics, blessed with the they're arguing from different
he is tired of campus life? It is gift of hope, can offer hope to tempting to think so. Part of the casualties. In the Christian the weariness must come from life, you can always start over, 
But clerics, blessed 

having to stand in line for since grace is everywhere, even everything: for meals, for get­in your last mistake. Until your with the gift of hope, ting tickets to the Keenan final breath is drawn, you don't can offer hope to the Revue, for finding an empty face a "t.t.s." situation that stall in the johns every mor­can't be redeemed, at least ~asualties. ning. Maybe the thought of partially,_ though redemptions 
come harder and the day premises." Some of the elders stretches toward evening; and full of caring at Notre Dame 
Can it be said that if 
you can never get back again appear to be arguing from dif­a student is tired of to the lost childhood, once you ferent premises; but in their Notre Dame, he is have thrown it away on a fool's passionate concern, all of them paradise. are saying the same thing:tired of campus life? Last Saturday, in a London "Don't screw around like a parish, two 1.3-year old lasses zombie, while life turns into a waiting in line on a crowded 
came to talk to the priest. One 't.t.s.' situation for yourself or campus where someone is al­
of them told the priest that the your neighbor, who can't helpways ahead of you, and the 
other was thinking of having himself." The argument is showers, the toilets, and the 
sex with her 1.3-year old about this: do you fight in tables you eat meals on often 
boyfriend; the first girl brought Nicaragua, or not; and if so, on seem gross from over-use ­
the tempted one to the priest which side? Nobody handingmaybe all this lack of privacy is 
out advice on this campus is a part of your re-entry problem, I can only tell you specialist in love, upstaging the causing you to suffer in the other gurus as though they
January doldrums? If so, I can what I say to myself 
were amateurs. In honesty,only tell you what I say to 

in London: this is a the humble -who only stand 
myself in London: this is a and wait as servants of the 
good place, and I'm glad I g9od place, and I'm 
young and the beautiful -maycame; so why sweat the small glad I came; so why be the saints who can teach us stuff? Life stays sweet. even on the duties of love. As far as the days when you see crabgrass sweat the small stuff? 

experts who claim to know the in the lawn, as long as you . 
truth that will make mer;1 free keep your health and stay out to hear his advisee. The first 
are concerned, Will Rogersofjail, able to look forward to girl said: "The boy promises to reminded us that everybody is the fast-approaching greener wear a 'condo."' The priest 

smart, only about different pastures. said: "I prepared you for your 
things. Remember all the In December, I spent a first Communion, and now 
bright young men in Kennedy'sweekend in the hospital while you're thinking of 'stoof (Irish time who got us involved in you were getting ready for pronunciation of stuff) like Vietnam? None of them knewfinals. I brought the sickness this." If you were a priest. what his ass from his elbow, we on myself; and fate, if you give would you way to the merest were told later, about the ways it a chance, will eventually nail children, for whom the word in which the Asian mind works. 
you. An old service expression "condo" means the same as As a priest, I have a genuinegoes: "If conditions can tum to condom, condiments, or con­respect and affection for the s---, they probably will." You dominium? On Sunday, a Catholic Church. I believe inshouldn't be in a hurry to rush twenty-year old lad from the Church because I believe ininto "t.t.s." (for "tum to s---") Ireland told me he had decided Jesus: the Catholic Church situations. As an optimistic that in the fighting in keeps us knowledgeable aboutChristian who doesn't necessar­Nicaragua, the government was Jesus in a way that no otherIly subscribe to G.I. wisdom, right. and he was thinking of church can claim to do. All the I'm here to warn you that you joining the army there. He churhes have the grace ofhave to stay on your guard to asked: "Is there such a thing as Christ with them, I hope; andkeep the quality of your life a Christian soldier?" I an-by their' witness, they keep the 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
l-Is 
I'M GOING 11-\RO'JG\-\ ~OUR DID MOMM~ AND DAOD~ RAISE LUGGt>.GE. W\-lt>-15 II LOOK ~0\J 1\W.MSEms. OR DID T\-\t.Y LIKE. L'M DOING~ \IN\1£ Y~ fOR M~ VIS\T? 
' 
~~ 
~ ,, I
,,( 
Catholic Church humble in its pretentions. If the Catholic Church folded, those other churches wouldn't have much of a leg to stand on, not even the New Testament, since it is 

In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed man shall be king. Is it only in hindsight that you can tell the blind men from the seers? 
composed of the written ac­counts of the Church's primi­tive traditions. 

So how is the Church doing? Not so well as it might do if its ministers and members were more open to the power of Christ and the Holy Spirit. The Church needs the prayers of its human element. to help it grow in grace, as a peace-maker and as the suffering servant of jus­tice and mercy, from one cen­tury to another. 
None of us can hang on to old truth as though it were manna bread that will stay fresh for more than a day at a time; the biblical manna came every day. It was always the same kind of food; but you could tell it was fresh if it had the morning's dew on it. Truth is true in a way that matters, not because Tradition guaran­tees it; but because today's children have tasted old­fashioned truth, and seen that it is good for them. Old truth, when it's relevant is as young and fresh as the morning. 
Are you blue in January? 


ChitChat • 
• 
1 

Cheer Up! We are moving 
towards Spring. when we can rejoice in the sun, though some are closer to the sun­set and evening star than we are to the dawn. "Ripeness is all," wrote Shakespeare; but perhaps for us, "freshness" should be the watchword: fresh truth, fresh love, fresh forms of service; and all things fresh, through us, in touch with God, willing to refresh this tired old earth because of us. Off with the old! On with the new! We have songs to sing that can be sung because we were born listening. "If a man does not keep pace with his com­panions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music 
We have songs to sing that can be sung because we were born listening. 
which he hears, however mea­sured or far away .... " 
In an age when Christianity has a shabby look. the Church itself could be born again if young believers could lift the globe of the world to their ears, and hear the Oversoul roaring its music, like the in­coming tide of a private sea. 
A university shouldn't be a graveyard where you come to disinterr embalmed truths. It Shculd be a workshop of the mind where you are visited by revelations. It seems so to me, fresh off the plane. Perhaps instead of the winter doldrums, I'm suffering from jet-lag. and that's why Henry David Thoreau sounds good. 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 

accent writer The 1987 Academy Awards ceremony is set for April, and the nominations won't even be released until February, but the speculation about potential nominees and winners has already hit full stride. Just re­ceiving one of the five nomina­tions In the Best Actress cate­gory will be this year's biggest coup, considering the long list of deserving hopefuls, lnclud· ing Cher("Moonstruck"), Glenn Close ("Fatal Vision"), Bette Davis ("The Whales of August"), faye Dunaway {"Barfly"), Lillian Gish ("The Whales of August"), Holly Hunter ("Broadcast News"), Sarah' Miles ("Hope and Glory"), Maggie Smith ("The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne"), Meryl Streep {"Ironweed"), and Barbra Streisand ("Nuts"). Las Vegas odds-maker Lenny Del Genio expects Hunter to win In the category and predicts that "Broadcast News" will domlnat~ the whole show.... The Coca­Cola Company is sponsoring this season's final episode of "Moonlighting.." which will be in 3-D, Coke commercials and all. To pick up the special glasses needed for viewing the 
show, drop by any local store where Coca-Cola products are sold.... Michael Jackson's comeback is humming along­his Bad album Is selling briskly and getting heavy airplay, his concert tour begins in February, his new Pepsi com­mercial will debut In March during the Grammy awards, April will bring on the publica­tion of his autobiography, "Moonwalk." sometime this spring he will be presented with a Lifetime Achievement Award on Showtime cable network special, which will include tributes from r:lizabeth Taylor and Katharine Hepburn among others, and his vanity movie, "Moonwatker," should be out sometime this year.... John Travolta has signed on 
for the "Welcome Back Kotter'' reunion TV-movie..•. Michael Caine is filming a Sherlock Holmes comedy-fantasy movie in London, in which Dr. Wat­son, played by Ben Kingsley, is the real mastermind behind solving crimes.... Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwar· zenegger have agreed to co­star In "Twins," a comedy about fraternal twins who are separated at birth and meet again at their mother's funeral. 

r------------.------~---~ 
Friday, January 15, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Broncos, Browns r remember losses 
Associated Press "We got to this point last year and we didn't get the chance to 
DENVER -The Cleveland take that extra step," Browns and Denver Broncos, Cleveland's Ozzie Newsome the AFC's biggest winners the said. "But this time, we want last two years, point to specific that extra step. We're not losses as their motivation for satisfied just being in the Sunday's conference champi­championship game.'' onship game. But they are happy to be 
The Browns remember last there and not intimidated by year's AFC championship, having to play at Mile High before nearly 80,000 scream­Stadium, where the Broncos ing, dog biscuit-throwing fans have lost only one non-strike in Cleveland Stadium. They re­game in two years. member taking a 20-13 lead in the fourth quarter, then pin­"It's a great stadium," ning Denver on its two-yard Browns Coach Marty Schotten­line. They remember The heimer said. "I played there Drive, engineered masterfully back when it held about 50,000 by John Elway, to the tying people, and they wore those touchdown. And Rich Karlis' vertically striped socks. I don't overtime field goal to win it. think the noise is anything un­
The Broncos recall their first usual, not like playing in a 
An aggressive Minnesota defense has made the
Super Bowl appearance in nine dome. 
VIkings one of the four teams vying for a spot In
years. They recall leading 10-9 "I would say that on the basis 
the Super Bowl. The conference championship
at halftime but having blown of the best record' in the AFC, at least another 10 points. They the two best teams are in it this recall how the Giants blew year and were last year. It was them out in the second half for a great football game last year, 
Vikings looking for a better toss 
a 39-20 victory. if you didn't care who won, and Neither team can forget. Nei­I expect it'll be another great 
Associated Press 51-yard pass from Doug Wil­Zimmerman and a sack by the ther team wants to forget. game again this year." 
liams to Ricky Sanders with Redskins' Pro Bowl defensive 
WASHINGTON-Never mind 1:46 left, then lost the toss and end Charles Mann. 
Dehne's Cathy Emigholz. Both the Redskins offense or the game 27-24 on Ali Haji­On their next possession, the 
players were assessed techni­defense. It was the coin toss Sheikh's 26-yard field goal. Vikings had a first down on the

Irish 
cal fouls, and the Huskies' that killed the Minnesota That kept the Vikings from Redskins' two. 
continued from page 12 
bench was called for another Vikings the last two times they clinching a playoff berth and But D.J. Dozier was thrown 
bring it back out. We want to because several players left played Washington. they snuck in the back door for a three-yard loss, Wade Wil­
be both. We want to be a patient the bench to join the alterca­Each time they took the only because St. Louis was son was sacked for two more 
fast-break team." tion. Redskins to overtime; each beaten by Dallas on the final yards, then Barry Wilburn 
The Huskies attempted to !!'he victory may have been time they lost the coin toss and Sunday. picked off a Wilson pass and press the Irish when McGraw a good tune-up for the Irish, Washington won with a score A similar thing happened on returned it 100 yards for a rested point guard Mary who take on Big East .,power on its first possession. Nov. 2, 1986, when the Redskins touchdown. So the teams went Gavin, but freshman Karen Syracuse on Saturday. "Maybe this time, we'll win rallied from a 12-point deficit off at halftime tied 7-7 although Robinson proved she could han­"They're very good," said a coin toss and win the game," fn the final five minutes to tie Minnesota had outgained dle the basketball and the pres-McGraw. "They are picked to Minnesota Coach Jerry Burns the game, then won 44-38 on Jay Washington 227-84 yards and sure. win the Big East, they're 11-3 says· of Sunday's meeting with Schroeder's 38-yard touchdown held the ball for more than 22 
"Karen played a great now. It should be a great game. the RedskinS' for the NFC pass to Gary Clark on their first of the 30 minutes. game," said McGraw. "She's We're really hoping that a lot championship. possession in overtime. The second half was more really fast. I thought she did a of the crowd will stay after the The last time the coin fell Both were odd games. even, as Williams relieved ­
nice job with the ball." men's game to watch us." wrong for the Vikings was just Minnesota dominated from Schroeder and threw for 217 
The game was less physical Syracuse has lost to Vil­three weeks ago in Min­the outset this year, going up yards after intermission, a in the second half, with one ex­lanova and Virginia, two teall).s neapolis, when it looked like the 7-0 in the first period. But they perofmrance that earned him ception. With 2:08 left and the which also have beaten lhe vagaries of "heads" or "tails" lost another chance to score the starting assignment for the Irish leading 81-58, NIU's Gena Irish this season, and Penn had eliminated Minnesota when they drove to the Wash­playoffs. Stubbs fouled Irish guard Sara State. The game will be played from the playoffs. ington 14, then lost 20 yards -a Still, the Vikings had a 10­Liebscher, and soon after the in the Joyce ACC following the Mter dominating for most of three-yard loss on a running point lead midway through the foul a fight broke out involving Irish men's game against the game, they allowed the play, a 10-yard holding penalt~ fourth quarter when Williams Diana Wingis of NIU and Notre DePaul. Redskins to tie the game on a against All-Pro tackle Gary led a 65-yard, 12-play drive. 
AP Photo 

games get under way this weekend In Denver and Washington. 
n.a....Notnt Deme office, located on tile third floor of Lafortune Stu­dint Centw, eccepts clualfled -'-tieing from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday thiOugll FltdaJ. n.a....Selnt Mery'a office, local1KI on tile third noor of tt._..Collge Cent•. eccepts clu8ifteda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through FltclaJ. o.dllne for next.Qy clu8ifledala 3 p.m. All claulfleda muat
Classifieds be .,...,-s, el~ In person or by mall. The ch_,. Ia 10 centa per five ~perct.y. 
NOTICES 
TYPINQ 277~131 or 237·11149 
MARISSA'S TYPINQ 277·2724 NIOHT; 277-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPINO SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
Doc Pierce's is hiring food and cocktail servers tor parttima evenings.Must be 2t.Apply 2-6pm.120 N. Main St. Mis­hawaka 
TYPINO AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at PandOI'Ils. 808 Howard (1 block oft NO Ave). Open' dally t0jli:30 
WORDPROCESSINO-TYPING 272-M27 
TYPINQ SERVICE 2511-2334 
................................................................ 
' LOST/FOUND I 
Found: basketball. Call Mark at Xt4oo. II you can identify H, H's yours. 
DID ANYBODY STEP ON, DANCE ON, 
KICK, OR POSSIBLY FIND A PAIR OF 
GOLD RIMMED GLASSES AT 
UNCLE'S, WEDNESDAY NIGHT? 
PATRICK-1599 
........................ 
FOUND: Thick gold necklace In Declo 
Faculty Hall lobby on Wednesday, Jan­
uary 13th. Call Ted at 2387 to clalm. 
LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT­ING GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I REALLY NEEDIIII 
LOST: Gold add-a-bead necklace. 41 7mm beads. Lost day before Christmas break. If found call Christine at x4092. REWARDIIIII 
LOST -DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY DISK, SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON WeDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD 
FOR RENT 
Roommate(s) WANTED, female non­smokers at Notre Dame Apts,leave mes­sage for Caroline at 288-9103 
2 BEDRM HOME FOR RENT ON NO AVE, 2 BATHS, 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY 272-6308, 232-1468 
ROOMATE NEEDEDI NOTRE DAME A APTS. $125 MO. QUIETI PLEASE CON­TACT SAM DEPIZZOL AT 271-0804 
ROOM FOR RENT IN 3 BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE. SHARE KITCHEN, WASHER, DRYER. $16<».10 ¢ 113 UTILITIES. CALL 289-7723. 
L...--w_A_N_Te_o_____.l 
NEED A RIDE TO HOUSTON OR DAL­LAS, OR ANYWHERE CLOSEBY OVER BREAK. CALL PATTI £2966. 
HIRINGI Govemmen1 Job• -your area. $15,()()0.$88,000. Call (802) 838-a85, Ext. 6262. 
DRIVERS NEEDED. START AT $3.75. INSURANCE & BONUS PLAN. PART TIME OR FULL TIME, EVENING HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON AT GOD­FATHER PIZZA, 52920 U.S. 31 N. 
FOR SALE 
1977 TOYOTA CELICA AUTO. GOOD CONDITION. GREAT COLLEGE CAR. ASKING $1500 after 6 pm. 277-9042 
MACINTOSH BOOK EXTERNAL DISK DRIVE FOR SALE. CALL JOHN AT 2093. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 1 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET TO THE KANSAS BASKETBALL GAME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1661. 
I NEED TIX TO N.D. VS. KENTUCKY ON JAN 31, CALL DAVE £4332 
Please sell me two depaul tix. Thanks, Chris 1861 
I PERSONALS 
BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355 
Zlvlol 
(Did I spell that right?) 

:ii;;;_.............................................,............ 
I know It was a miserable X-Mas. But, 
can we go to a movie or dinner? Maybe 
talk to each other when It rains? 

B 
Welcome Back Brian Hope you like the pix I still care 
THE DUKE OF FLANNER TURNS "22" ON SUNDAY. STOP BY 1020 FLANNER FOR YOUR CHANCE TO KISS HIS RING. HAPPY BIRTHDAY DUKEI 
Sophomore•... 

The Sophomore Class Mass will be cel­ebrated this Sunday at 3:00pm In Sacred Heart Church. Come and bring your friends I 
Sophomorea... 

Celebrate your claaa maaa with Fr. Lavellle thla Sunday a1 3:OOpm at Sa­cred Heartl 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED two (2) student tickets for DePaul blowout. Call Pat x1155. 
Oeorge and Mary Allee
......................... 
... sitting outside of Howard K-1-S-S-1-N-G ... 
,;:;;~;;;;;~~i·;;;~··;;;~i·;;i·c;;;;;;;~·;,..iii9~·i·i=;;; 
Info call Dianna at 283-2676 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Andy Braunlll Roses are red Violets are blue Don'l know what I'd do WHhout a great friend like youl Have a super dayi-Maria 
Dear Kelly, TK, Jeff, Girl from down the hall, or Mrs. Osmond, 
Who the heck are you anyway?l Does Jimmy Osmond know about the phone? You really didn't think you were going to get away unscathed on your birthday, did ya? Here's hoping your 20th brings more nicknames, more late Tuesdays (early Wednesdays), and many more happy adventures wHh peas. Speaking of peas, let's keep the lettuce in bHe-size chunks, OK? May the end of your teenage years be also the end of your car problems and rosie scleras (look It upl). May you have many more Plan A's and Plan B's In your future. All our besl. 
The lncorrigibles 
P.S. -Enjoy San Francisco wHh Braxton! 
Kelly, I'll think I'll find some other way than through personals to wish you a happy 20th birthday. Have fun wijh Braxton in San Francisco. I'm jealous. 
A Cardinals Fan 
WANTED: 
Used Criminology paperbacks Contact JR at 283-1538 

Two Montha 
Holy Cowl 
ATTENTION FORMER MALE HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga­nize a Howard gathering during the hall socials after the JPW dinner. II you would be interested In attending, and we know you will, call Kevin Walsh at X3609 and sign up. We need evertb<>dY signed up by January 27 and the sooner you algn up the better, so call nowl Also, whenever you see other Howard guys tell them about this. Thanks. 
Hey, Kathyl (or Is H Cathy?): I made a mistake (imaQ.ine thatl). The room Is 923 (not 1123) 7PM. Queslions? Special Info Hotline (£1 068). I enjoyed talking with you at lunch Thursday. See you Sat­urday! -D. 
Once Upon a Time In Farley .. 
POP FARLEYII 
POP FARLEYII 
POP FARLEYII 
POP FARLEYII 
POP FARLEYII 
POP FARLEYII 

Ask your favorite Far1eyrte for details.. 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY MEG I We love you I 
GarreH, I'm glad you're herel Love, VIcki 
De~~. D~~k.'. H'~ppy·. 20th.. a~~~k.'. ::;~~.;~ 
lhe grealest duck in the pond olllfel Love Ya, Kath 
·············· ........................... Dear Mon-Ica, Happy 20th B-dayl Love, Casey¢ Mark 
Sail old texts for $$$. Pandoraa -808 Howard (1 block oft NO Ave). Open dally 10-5:30. Also save Son used books. 
Swimmers hot in Ariz. 
Welsh pleased with break 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
The switch from the cold and snow of South Bend to sunny Arizona was a pleasant one for the Irish swim teams during break. 
The workouts, however, were anything but easy. 
Both the mens' and womens' teams trained for two weeks in the Arizona sun over break. They also competed in a non­scoring relay meet at Arizona State with the Sun Devils and SMU. 
The swimmers worked out twice daily for a total of four hours, and the results of those sessions left coach Tim Welsh optimistic about the near fu­ture. 
"One of the keys of the season is intense training in a sustained period of time," Welsh said. "The results have been excellent, and they have also been encouraging in the perspective of how hard we have been working." 
While they did· not capture any first places in the non­scoring meet against the tough competition, the Irish did turn in several good performances. 
The womens' squad picked up four second-place finishes. The team of Christine Moston, Mary Acampora, Kathleen Quirk and Barbara Byrne was the runner-up in the 4x100 back­stroke, while Acampora, Mos­ton, Callie Bolattino and Tracy Johnson were second in the 4x100 medley relay. 
Quirk, Annette Quill, Amy Vogel, Jeanmarie Browne and Johnson were second in the 5x50 relay, as was the team of Johnson, Kelly Quinn, Quill, Vogel and Amy Darlington in the 5x100 relay. 
The top finish for the mens' squad was a fourth-place showing in the 5x100 relay event. 
"This trip has increased our confidence," Welsh said. "We were able to swim fast even though we were sore and tired. We know that when we are less sore and less tired and take the time to prepare ourselves, we can be faster. 
"This kind of meet was per­fect for our stage of develop­ment. It was good for us to be in the water with the nation's elite swimmers and to compare them to ourselves. We were able to trust ourselves and our training." 
The Irish travel to Northern Illinois today and then return to host Western Ontario Satur­day at Rolf's Aquatic Center. 


Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's basketball team stopped Bethel College Thursday night by a 64-57 score. Tammye Radke scored 16 points for the Belles, while her sister Julie Radke chipped in 15. Amy Baranko added 10 for the 5-4 winners. 
-The Observer 

A WVFI sports staff meeting will be held Monday at 6:30p.m. at the station. All staff members and anyone interested in becoming a part of the staff are expected to attend. If you are unable to come to the meeting, call Sean or Jamey at 2266. -The Observer 
The women's softball team will have its first practice Tuesday, Jan. 19, at 5:30p.m. at the Loftus Center. Anyone interested in trying out for the team should attend and bring insurance forms along. If you are unable to come, call Barb at 4290 or Terri at 1260. -The Observer 
The Dayton Flyers upset DePaul, 79-72, in college basketball action Thursday night. The loss gives the Blue Demons an 8-4 record as they enter the Joyce ACC to face 9-3 Notre Dame on Saturday. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
DALLAS-Forrest Gregg left his head coaching job with the Green Bay Packers and returned to his alma mater Thursday to start anew the scandal-rocked football pro­gram at Southern Methodist. 
"It's a distinct honor for us at SMU today to announce the selection and appointment of our new head football coach ­Forrest Gregg," SMU athletic Director Doug Single said at news conference. 
-

Gregg, who was the SMU football team's captain in 1955, now has the job of restoring SMU's program tainted in a play-for-pay scandal that blotted out the school's 1987 and 1988 seasons. 
"I am really pleased to be home," said Gregg, who has never coached college football, but took the Cincinnati Bengals to the Super Bowl. "I've been doing a lot of things -the Na­tional Football League for a long time -and I always thought that somewhere along 


Whether you're into business, science or engineerin_g, a TI calculator can make your courses easier to take. 
!;very year, thousands of hapless sfudents watch their course load become an overload. And-every year, the smart ones among them pick up a TI calculator and take a load off. 
TI calculators have all the right functions you need. We offer every~ thing from advanced scientifics that clock your performance to programmables that speak your language to a solar~powered calcu~ lator that highlights your answers, even inlowlight conditions. 
And the large, color~coded keys and simple keyboard layouts make TI calculators easier to use than any other. Maybe that's why more students rely on TI calculators than any other brand. 


"Trademark of Texas Instruments Incorporated ©I988 Tl. 
Friday, January 15, 1988 

AP Photo 
The St. Louis Cardinals hope to return to the World Series behind the power of Bob Horner, who signed wl~h the National League team Thursday after a stint In Japan. Shown above are two of Horner's new teammates, Tony Pena and Todd Worrell. 

You're the Best (Julie & John) 


I'll Miss You All! Love, Chris 
The Observer page 9 
Slugger leaves Japan 

Horner signs with Cards 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Free-agent Bob Horner, rejecting a much more lucrative offer to play again in Japan, joined the St. Louis Car­dinals on Thursday and promised to help fill the power gap left by Jack Clark's depar­ture. 
"I know he's a great player," Horner said at a news confer­ence. "But I've had a lot ex­pected of me in the past and I've met those challenges .. . I know I can help this ballclub." 
Cardinals General Manager Dal Maxvill said Horner signed a one-year contract. Terms call for a base salary of $950,000 with various incentives en­abling him to make up to an­other $500,000. 
"There would have been no trouble signing back with Japan," Horner said. "It would have taken just one phone call. Financially, I turned down a lot of money to play in the states. But I'm satisified and happy to be back in the states playing ball. That's what I wanted to do." 
Horner made $1.8 million with the Atlanta Braves for the 1986 season, the last covered under a four-year $5.1 million contract. Mter turning down a three-year $4.5 million offer from Atlanta, and failing to find a job with another big league team in a tight free­agent markert, he signed with Yakult, of the Japanese Central League, for $2 million, includ­ing benefits and incentives. 
Yakult had offered Horner $3 million for 1988 and $10 million total in a multi-year pact. Last season, he batted .327 with 31 homers and 73 runs batted in. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 

Assistant Ad Design Manager 
Applications due at the Observer Office 
For further information contact Molly Killen at The Observer (239-5303) 
Horner's agent, Bucky Woy, 
indicated that it wasn't easy to 
reject the Japanese offer. 
"I've been in this business 23 
years and I never thought I'd 
turn down $10 million," Woy 
said. "He needs one season (in 
the majors) plus a few odd days 
and then his pension is fully 
vested. He really wanted to get 
back." 
And tHe 30-year-old first baseman said he couldn't pass up an opportunity to play for St. Louis. He said he grew up following the team. 
Horner is the first major free-agent acquired by the Car­dinals since the team signed catcher Darrell Porter in December 1980. Maxvill was forced to shop the free-agent market after Clark, the first baseman who carried the team to the NL east title last season, bolted unexpectedly to the New York Yankees as a free agent. 
A veteran of nine seasons in the major leagues, Horner has a career batting average of .278 with 215 homers. In 1986, his last with Atlanta, he hit .273 with 27 home runs and 87 RBI. 
Maxvill said Cardinals manager Whitey Herzog sup­ported the decision to sign Horner. 
"Whitey has been consulted all along, is in complete agree­ment and is enthusiastic about Bob being with us, especially after a long conversation they had (Wednesday) night," Max­vill said. 







ews. 
The Tl-95 PROCALC" is our 
The Tl-60 Advanced .Jill most powerful, top ofthe line advanced Scientific features such scientific with a full range ofscientific, built-in functions as hexa­
t7//l 
mathematic and statistical functions. decimal/octal conversions, ~--:-<:·,\ It uses redefinable function keys to integration using Simpson's provide easy access to functions with rule, statistics (including

----';. 
menu-like windows and has a flexible linear regression), trend line ---·~-file management system to conveniently analysis and metric to English
-......";". 
store programs and data. The TI-95 conversions. There are also

---~-.... 
offers optional accessories such as Solid 84 programming steps for State Software1M cartridges, an BK constant memory repetitive calculations. cartridge, a portable printer and cassette interface. 
The Tl-65 Technical Analyst rM offers all ofthe built-in function.~ ofthe The Tl-74 BASICAI£1Mis a calculator that you 

Tl-60, plus astopwatch! 
~~~~~~~~~Dmmr~ can program in BASIC. It

timer for labwork, eight i. provides direct two-keystroke 
physical constants for 
access to 4 I commonly used use in thermodynamics and physics as well as Decision Programming advanced scien­(if. .. then) capabilities. . tific calculator, There are also 100 pro­. offering 70 prepro­gramming steps for grammed scientific repetitive calculations. functions. 
TheTl Business 

Analyst Solar 
features Tl 's 
exclusive Anylite 
Solar™technol­
ogy, so you can 
use it in any light. 
Preprogrammed 
formulas help 
you speed through accounting, finance 
and statistics problems. 
So pick up a TI calculator today. 
It'll save you a lot of grief. 
And that's good news in itself. 
TEXAS. 

INSTRUMENTS 


Edwards boosts GPA at IU, gets reinstated to Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON -Fresh­man guard Jay Edwards gained reinstatement to the In­diana University basketball team Thursday after submit­ting art projects to boost his grade-point average. 
Edwards dressed Wednes­day night for the 15th-ranked Hoosiers in their victory over Wisconsin at Bloomington. 
The heralded 6-foot-4, 178­pound guard was suspended Dec. 18, the last day of semes­ter finals at IU, and has not played since the Dec. 15 win over Eastern Kentucky. 
"Jay did the work thaf was necessaary to be eligible," said Eric Ruden, assistant sports in­formation director. 
+
American 

Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
,. 


Thursday night after sitting out because of academics. Edwards boosted his grade-point average by doing some extra art assign­ments over Christmas break. 



DePaul 
continued from page 12 
Though! they all will play Sat­urday, the three will most likely not be at full strength. 
"I'm not worried about get­ting this team ready for DePaul," said Phelps. "All I have to do is have them look at the last minute-and-a-half of last month's game when we were up by six." 
In that game, played at the Rosemont Horizon on Dec. 12, Notre Dame blew a six-point lead with 1: 22 remaining in the game and eventually lost in overtime, 73-69. 
Similarly last January, th~ Irish held a 53-52 advantage with 56 seconds to go before losing the lead and the game, 59-54. Sweet revenge followed a month later when Notre Dame upset the fourth-ranked Blue Demons at the ACC, 73-62. 
The Irish would like nothing more than to repeat that scenario and split its annual se­ries with DePaul with a win on Saturday. 
"When you talk about the 
best independents in the 
country," said Phelps. "Notre 
Dame and DePaul are usually 
at the top of the list. So this 
game is played for pride -for 
the right to say you are the best 
of the independents. They come 
in here knowing they beat us 
last month at the Horizon. We 
come in knowing we did a lot 
of good things for 36 or 37 
minutes in a game, but we still 
didn't win the game." 
On Saturday, as in the 
DePaul win last month, two of 
the nation's premier guards go 
head-to-head. David Rivers 
poured in 26 points in last 
month's contest, while Strick­
land scored 22 for the Blue 
Demons. 
Strickland has had more 
trouble off the court than on it, 
however. After sitting out 
DePaul's first three games be­
cause of academic troubles, the 
6-3 junior dipped into more hot 
water after a New Year's Eve 
dormitory scuffle and an unex­
cused absence from Monday's 
practice. Strickland will ap­
pear in court next week on bat­
tery charges. He will play Sat­
urday against the Irish. 

IllALUMNI SENIOR ~CLUB FRIDAY LUNCH THlS WEEKANDE'IERYWEEK OPEN NOON -2 Ph\ FRlDAY \ MPORTS JUST "£ BAR DRINK SATURDAY CORONA O~L.V '\ AMARETTO SOURS 75~ ........... .. .... ~.¢".... .. ................. '* .... ..... .. .............. ~.. .¢".... ..  

tudent Union Board presents: a lecture by THE HONORABLE SHIRLEY CHISHOLM "PROTEST, ORDER, AND JUSTICE" 
Washington Hall Tuesday, January 19 8:00p.m. Tickets $2.00 ­available at The Cellar 
Sponsored by 
Student Union Board, 
Office of Minority 
Student Affairs, 
February 19-21 $160 package cost includes: 
-Meals -Transportation 
\~ 
Cardinal Coaches -LodginQ (Four to a room, indoor and outdoor heated pools) 
-One free ski lesson for beginners  
/  -Lift tickets  "­ 
..,./  -(Hill has 20 runs including 8 beginner  ·  ~  
JY  slopes and a vertical drop)  
Sign-ups begin Thursday, January 14  

and will continue through Wednesday, January 20. Sign-up between 2:00 and 4:00 in the freshman class office, 2nd floor LaFortune. the entire balance is due at the time you sign-up. Get your name and $$$ in quick. •~liJ 
Cut off is set at 80 students. lfUI_ 
Edwards' mother, Rosemary Edwards of Marion, said she had been confident her son would regain his eligibility. 
"He's been practicing a lot by himself and I think every­thing will be OK," she said. 
Edwards, who took an art class offered to all IU students during the holiday break, had to earn a B in the course to im­prove his grade average to an acceptable 1.8. Mrs. Edwards said her son submitted eight projects for the class. 
"Talking to Jay, I know he felt certain everything went fine in the class," Mrs. Ed­wards said Wednesday night. 
Monday is the first day of the second semester at IU. 
The addition of Edwards boosted the Indiana roster back up to 12 players, and the Hoosiers probably can use the help. They began their Big Ten season 0-2 after dropping road losses to Iowa and Northwes­tern. 
Edwards was averaging 5.7 points and 14 minutes per game after playing in six of Indiana's outings, including a start against Vanderbilt and a high of 12 points•. ctgainst Notre Dame. 

The freshman came off the bench to score 12 points against Notre Dame in the Hoosiers' 76­59 victory over the Irish in early December. Ten of those 12 points came in the last five minutes of the contest, and Ed­wards also came up with some fine defense to stop David Rivers and the Irish from get­ting back into the contest. 

Friday, January 15, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


*************************************************************************************** 
* * 
E ******************** WINTERFEST '88 ******************** : 
* * 
~ ***************** : E Friday, January 15 *********** Saturday, January 16 : ~ Skating at the J .A.C. C. LUAU -Stepan Center : : 10:30 pm-1:00am 9 pm : .. 
** -free rentals slip-n-slide music : leis volleyball * 
: -free hot chocolate & donuts tood dunk tank * 
* sponsored by SUB D.J. ~ 
*************************************************************************************** 


Campus 
Saturday 12 p.m. Basketball vs. DePaul in the JACC 2 p.m. Swimming vs. Western Ontario at Rolfs Aquatic Center 7 p.m. Wrestling vs. Illinois State in the Auxiliary Gym 
Sunday 
2 p.m. Mass with members of Emmaus, a community with the mentally handi­capped in Moreau Seminary 
7: 30'p.m. Right to Life group meets to finalize Washington D.C. plans in LaFortune 
Little Theater 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Grilled Pastrami Fried Fish Platter Turkey Pot Pie Linguine & Vegetables 


We need someone 
withagoodback, 

strongstomach,
level head 


andabig heart. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us at 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 93. 

PeaceCorps. 
The tQughest job yoo'll ever IQVe. 

Comics 
Saint Mary's 
Batter Fried Fish Tacos Bacon & Cheese Omlette Deli Bar 
· 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 "Madam, 
I'm-" 5 Bar or dollar 9 Washes 
14 Pedestal part 15 Netman 
Nastase 16 Occurrence 17 Norse deity 18 Croissant 19 -voce 20 Immediately 23 Fontanne's 
partner 24 Meadow 25 Way up 28 "Shane" star 33 Removes the 

gray 34 Author Hunter 35 Actress Arthur 1--+-+--+--+-­36 Immediately 
40 Seine sight  
41  Egyptian  
goddess  
42 Sierra  - 
43 Went AWOL 46 Kept out  ©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

01/15/88 

47 Make lace 48 Antitoxin: pref. 10 Open 49 Immediately declaration 56 Sub 11 Turn thumbs 57 Out of the down 
wind 12 Internal: pref. 58 Moslem leader 13 Cease 60 Tropical vine 21 RN word 61 Mariners 22 Grassy plain 62 Concern 25 Sedate 63 Ruhr valley 26 Appellation 
city 27 Poker stakes 64 Let stand 28 Shun 65 Obstacle 29 Passes on the 
track 

DOWN 30 Detest 1 Fuss 31 US diplomat 2 Art style of yore 3 Mine entrance 32 Passe 

4 Obelisk e.g.  34 Gaelic  01/15/88  
5 Alluring  37 Likewise  46 Command  53 Fall  -(fall)  
women  38 SOS signal  48 Cubic  meter  54 To  -(as  
6 In the crow's  39 VIgorous  49 Govern  one)  
nest  exercises  50  Bird of 7D  55 Ancient lr.  
7 Long  44 Flammable  51  Antelopes of  capital  
river  gas  Tibet  59 "Little  
8 Valley  45 Wickerwork  52 Musical  Women"  
9 Wane  material  Domino  name  

Bloom County 
UCf/5f, Me, tll0t6 liN/? &!Nrt&MEN. Yc5ffKfliiY'S PI/Net SHOWEll Me 
1?£(;1JC5TIN& IW 
1/tCOHOt.IC. 
tJE'Vef(A&£... 
\ 
Berke Breathed 
UleU, I'P (.{Kf nt05€ OF Ya! WHO VI~W ME 115 f1 1?0/.e MOt?tC. 1tJ KNOW 7Hf/T. 
WANT 
SOME WITH II f?f/N6£1?0f/6 
IN REIIUTY, WHeN File&/? 

/ 
0
~c
S!/85TIINC&, 7HI5 t?WE 
JV5T 511Y5 


=~. 
-=JQ.. _ 
~­


Early wheel gangs 



~------=---·-_-----=--=---=--~~~~--=--=-­
page12 




Sports 
Friday, January 15, 1988 

Women pound NIU, face SU tomorrow 

By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Like a well-oiled machine, the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team efficiently dis­posed of the Northern Illinois Huskies Thursday night, 89-66. 
The Irish offense, which before the contest was ranked first in the nation in field-goal percentage, did nothing to hurt that distinction. The team shot .537 from the field, including an 11-of-15 performance by for­ward Heidi Bunek. 
On the defensive end, the Irish were equally impressive, holding the Huskies to .256 in the first half and .351 for the game. 
The Irish and the Huskies played an intense, physical first half, with Northern Illinois slowing the Irish running game but unable to stop the inside at­tack as the Irish &teadily pulled away to lead 46-43 at the half. 
"We expected it to be physi­cal," said Irish head coach 
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Muffet McGraw. "I think the conference games are going to
Lisa Kuhns (14), guarded here by Northern Illi­Huskies Thursday night. Theresa Kelly has the 
nois' Toby Meeks, hit a pair of three-point shots details at right. and scored 14 points as the Irish routed the 

Phelps gears Irish for DePaul rematch 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
Digger Phelps appeared relaxed, even satisfied. 
His team had just appeared sharp in a tuneup win over Yale, and his starting center and backup guard would be in practice the next day after being sidelined by injuries. 
His post-game meeting with the press was friendly, more like a fireside chat than a press conference as he discussed his team's easy 85-59 win over the Elis. Then suddenly his voice seemed stronger, and his pos­ture straightened. While Notre Dame's win over Yale was the immediate topic, its matchup with DePaul on Saturday was in the back of everyone's mind in the room. 
Phelps knew it. It was on his mind too. But he would try not to let it show. 
"We're really looking for­ward to the rematch with DePaul," said Phelps. "That's aU I have to say about Satur­day's game." 
But it wasn't. A Chicago writer brought up the play where Keith Robinson need­lessly bounced the ball in heavy lane traffic, baiting swarming guards to steal it. 
"And (DePaul) will do that," warned Phelps. "That's one of the things they do very well. (Rod) Strickland will come in and take it away." 
Moments later Phelps returned to the forbidden topic of DePaul. Gary Voce and Joe Fredrick, recuperating from a sprained ankle and tendenitis, respectively, only returned to practice Thursday and forward Mark Stevenson sustained a 14­
stitch cut in the Yale game. 
see DePAUL, page 
10 
be like that. It was a real dog­fight." 
As has been the case all season, Bunek and center Sandy Botham led the Irish in scoring and rebounding. Bunek tossed in 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds while Botham to­taled 22 points and 13 boards. The Irish outrebounded the Huskies, 51-36. 
"For such a tough game, I thougi:tt we showed a lot of poise inside," said McGraw. "Sandy and Heidi were getting pushed a lot, but they didn't lose their cool. They just stayed with it and they played very well." 
The Irish were also able to connect from the outside, hel­ping to open up Botham and Bunek. Lisa Kuhns scored 14 points coming off the bench. She shot five-of-six from long range, including two-of-three three-point baskets. McGraw has brought a quicker tempo to the Notre Dame program, but the Irish are still always looking for the best shot. 
"We try to run the break off the rebound," she said. "Then if we don't get the layup, we 
see IRISH, page 7 


Terence Greene (13) and DePaul enter the Joyce the year between the two schools. Brian O'Gara 
ACC Saturday afternoon attempting to sweep previews the contest at left. Notre Dame with a victory In the second game of 

ND wrestlers on roll as home schedule begins 
By CHRIS KILEY Sports Writer 
Remember the Alamosa. 
That is what the Notre Dame wres­tling team will be thinking as it enters its first home dual meet of the season against Illinois State on Saturday. 
What is the Alamosa? It is the sight of Adams State University and the team's stunning 19-16 loss on its swing out west over Christmas break. The In­dians took advantage of the high Colorado altitude and a large crowd to totally surprise the Irish. 
"We ran into a hornets' nest," said Irish head coach Fran McCann. "They had 2,800 fans show up and they were the loudest, most rabid fans I've ever seen in my life. It was discouraging be­cause we had better talent than them." 
Winners for the Irish were Jerry Durso at, 134 pounds, Mark Gerardi at 158 pounds, Todd Tomazic at 167 pounds and Chris Geneser at 177 pounds. 
"They really got the crowd behind them," McCann said. "They were on their feet, .gtomping and screaming. It was incredible." 
Having received the wake-up call from Adams State, Notre Dame promptly avenged last season's loss to the Air Force Academy by crushing the Falcons, 31-9. · 
"I was really pleased how we came back after the loss to Adams State," McCann noted. 
Notre Dame clung to the emotional wave and came out of the Wyoming In­vitational with an impressive third­place finish, behind Oklahoma State and North Dakota State. Geneser won Outstanding Wrestler honors by cruis­ing through the 177-pound class. 
But perhaps the most impressive per­formance of the tournament was turned in by Gerardi''at 158 pounds. Only a freshman, Gerardi placed second, fal­ling to Oklahoma State's Vince Silva 5-3 in the finals. Silva is currently ranked second in his division national­ly. 

"Mark showed a tremendous amount of composure for a freshman," said McCann. 
Durso also placed second at 134 pounds, behind Oklahoma State's John Smith. Durso lost to the defending NCAA, Pan American, and World Champion by an 8-4 score. 
"John is probably the premier wrestler in the country right now and Jerry is the only one who has come close to beating him,'' McCann said. ''He just needs one little break. That would be a tremendous win." 
The Irish enter Saturday's contest against Illinois State with an impres­sive string of victories, yet they are leery of another Alamosa. 
"Illinois State always has some good individual wrestlers and this year won't be any different," said McCann. "They're good at the upper weights, but they can really get things off to a good start with John Chapman wrestling at 118 pounds. This is an important match because it's in our region and will have an impact on seedings." 
As with all home matches, McCann would like to see a strong show of sup­port for the Irish. 
"We'd like to have a good turnout be­cause it is an important match for us," 
McCann said. "And I'll tell you right now, the way the crowd was at Adams State had an impact. It sure affected us." 
fhe nratch is Saturday night at 7 in the Auxiliary Gym of the Joyce ACC. 




