Weather or not
ACCENT: A critic of the Church It will be partly sunny and 
cold today, high 35 to 40, it will still be sunny and cold 
Saturday, with high near 40. 
VIEWPOINT: What is Opus Dei? 

Six Congressmen demand em barg o 
VOL. XXI, NO. 104 FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Six Republican and Democratic congressmen introduced a bill Thursday to impose an "im­mediate, dramatic and devastating" trade, air travel and currency embargo against the regime of Panamanian strongman Manuel Antonio Noriega. 
The lawmakers said they would seek speedy congressional approval of the embargo bill. 
But they said they also hoped to prod President Reagan to act independently to adopt a far stronger series of punitive sanctions against the Noriega regime than he has approved to date. 
The proposed embargo would bar all imports from Panama, prohibit all U.S. exports to that nation, bar all air travel between the two countries and prohibit 
U.S. banks from transferring any funds to Panama and its banking system. 
"By stopping the transfer of funds from U.S. banks to Panama, we go for the jugular," said Sen. Alfonse D­Amato, R-N.Y., a principal sponsor of the embargo plan. 
"Because of Panama's heavy reliance on its economic ties with the 
ND minorities optimistic about Young's speech 
By JIM WINKLER 
Staff Reporter 
The selection of Andrew Young as this year's com­mencement speaker has brought optimistic reactions from the minority commu­nity at Notre Dame. 
Young, the mayor of At­lanta, was announced Mon­day as the speaker for the Class of 1988's graduation in May. He will be the second black to speak at a Notre Dame commencement, the first having been Vernon Jor­dan in 1976. 
Minority student leaders 
ND Post 
By MARG CLARKSON 
News Staff 
The Notre Dame Post Office recently reduced its hours of operation in response to federal budget deficit reduction measures, said Postmaster George Weddle, and postal rates may be increasing in the near future. 
Weddle said the reduction in hours went into effect Feb. 13. Because of the change in hours, there will no longer be any col­lection or dispatch of mail on Sundays or holidays, he said. 
"In Indiana, all of the smaller post offices are re­quired to close for a certain length of time during the day. 

United States, the impact of a U.S. 
trade embargo would be immediate, 
dramatic and devastating to Noriega 
and his cohorts," D' Amato said. 
Panamanian opposition leader 
Ricardo Arias Calderon, president of 
the Christian Democratic Party, told 
reporters later that a trade embargo 
would be "strong medicine" but that 
such a remedy is sometimes needed for 
people to regain their health. 
Other sponsors of the embargo bill 
are Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.; 
David Durenberger, R-Minn.; Bob 
Graham, D-Fla.; John Kerry, D-Mass.; 
and Jesse Helms, R-N.C. 
The senators told reporters they in­troduced the legislation at the specific request of Eric Arturo Devalle, who was ousted as Panama's president after attempting to remove Noriega as commander of Panama's defense forces. 

Noriega was indicted by a federal The Observer I Lortan Ury
Skylight

grand jury in Miami last month for ac­cepting $4.6 million to protect interna­Thursday night's full moon peeks through The dome is scheduled to be given a new tional drug traffickers using Panama the cloud cover to shed some light on the coating of primer and gold leaf this summer. as a safe haven. somewhat dull surface of the Golden Dome. 
on campus expressed plea­sure at the choice of Young as speaker. "I was surprised as well as happy," said Roc­helle Holder, president of the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC). "I am ec­static that the University chose someone who is such an outstanding minority." 
Dennis Tillman, chairman for press and publicity of the Notre Dame chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, called it "a positive step." Tillman also said 
see YOUNG, page 6 



Office 
And larger post offices, like the South Bend Post Office, are re­quired to close at least one af­ternoon per week for four hours," Weddle said. 
He declined to comment spe­cifically on who designed the Notre Dame Post Office's reduced schedule. 
The post office has reduced its hours of window operation to 8 a.m.-1 p.m. and 3-4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9:30-11:30 a.m. on Saturday. 
The post office's former win­dow hours were Monday through 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. and Saturday 9•11:30 a.m. 
The reduced hours will be in effect "probably about one and a half to two years, but it 

Women, teaching featured 
•


1n SMC's Madeleva lecture 
By COURTNEYJAMIESON 
News Staff 
The relationship between wo­men, teaching and learning was the theme of the Fourth Annual Madeleva Lecture at Saint Mary's Thursday night. The lecture was given by Maria Harris, visiting professor of re­ligious education at New York University. 
Harris addressed the ten­dency of education to force wo­men into means of learning that aren't designed for them. Educators have tried to make the unnatural in women the natural, she said. 
Harris said she wanted to reflect on a teaching spirituality similar to the steps that emerge in a dance where the teacher leads the student into the next step. 
She outlined a five-step process, which she said "was drawn from the lives and expe­riences of women." 
The process begins with a silence from which women can reflect on their past experi­ences and gain an understand­ing that leads them to a voice of their own, she said. 
The next step of learning is remembering those who have been forgotten and integrating 



reduces hours 
depends on when the budget cuts get restored," Weddle said. 
Notre Dame's post office was not the only one to be affected by an effort to reduce the budget deficit. There were nationwide reductions in hours and on the West Coast some branches were closed com­pletely, said Weddle. 
Weddle said the Postal Ser­
vice last year filed for a rate 
increase in Washington, D.C., 
and that the Postal Rate Com­
mission would decide "in the 
next week or so" whether the 
request for a stamp increase 
from 22 to 25 cents would be 
approved. Pending approval, 
the increase would go into ef­feet between April 1 and April 17, said Weddle. 
"The Postal Service is restricted to a rate increase once every three years. March 15 is the three-year anniver­sary of the last rate increase," Weddle said. In addition to the stamp price increase, the rate structure of other post office services would be ~iimplified. 
Federal laws about retire­ment expenses are partly re­sponsible for the proposed in­crease in stamp prices. "We have to do what is required by law," Weddle said. "Reduction in hours is the Postal Service's contribution to reducing the deficit." 
them into the teaching and learning process, Harris said. 
Artistry, said Harris, is an in­tegration of the head and heart that leads to what we embody the teaching of men and wo­men. 
Artistry leads to a birthing in which the "female face and voice resonate." Harris said birthing isn't a culminating moment; rather, the dance continues, and each of the steps blends into the others. 
Harris said she felt she was chosen for the annual lecture because she has been writing 
see LECTURE, page 4 
Corporate 
recruiters 
looking into 

Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Corpor­
ate recruiters are raiding In­
diana campuses in what 
many college career coun­
selors say is a trend toward 
economic optimism and a 
renewed interest in tradi­
tional undergraduate 
degrees. 
"We are seeing a dra­
matic increase in recruit-
see JOBS, page 4 

The Observer Friday, March 4, 1988
~pa~g~e!2------------------------------------~~~~~----------------------------­


In Brief 
A 50-year-old bridge across the Wabash River in 
Graysville, Ind. will likely be destroyed with explosives this spring. Preservationists say the historic bridge may be the last remaining suspension bridge in Indiana. De­partment of Highways officials believe refurbishing. and maintaining the bridge would be too costly. -Assocmted Press 

Of Interest 
Spanish Mass will be held in Farley Chapel Sunday at 4 p.m. Father Alfred D'Alonzo will preside. -The Ob­server 
Mock Convention delegate sign-up deadline has been extended until Monday. Applications are available in the student government office. -The Observer 
The Economics Department, Omicron Delta Epsilon, and the college fellow office are encouraging eco­nomics majors and faculty to attend the performance by the Notre Dame orchestra and chorale Sunday night. Meet at Sacred Heart Church for the concert, and afterwards, economics majors and faculty are invited to get free ice cream at LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Holy Cross Associates Program applications are due March 25. See Mary AnnRoemer at the Center for Social Concerns or Jane Pitz, HCA office, Moreau Sem­inary for more information. -The Observer 
An Tostal general committee meeting will be held in 
the Hesburgh Library auditorium on Sunday, March 6 at 
7:30 p.m. Everyone at the first organizational meeting should attend. -The Observer 
''The Prodigal,'' an entertaining film showing God's ability to heal broken relationships will be shown tonight at 6:30 in the Campus House at 19525 Pendle Road. For rides, call 277-8471. -The Observer 
This is the last day that The Juggler Art and Literary Magazine will be accepting submissions for the spring 1988 issue. Bring submissions to the English office on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
A pep rally will be held tonight on the Fieldhouse Mall 
at 7:30 to cheer the Irish on to victory over Marquette. 
The King and Queen of the Irish will also be crowned. ­
The Observer 
The Women'sCareCenter!PregnancyHelpCenter is holding a training session for volunteers during the weekend of March 4, 5 and 6. Volunteers will be trained to provide pregnancy testi.n~, crisis counse~ing and com­munity referrals. The trammg program will be held on campus at the Knights of Columbus building. Contact the Women's Care Center today from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 234­0363 for more information. -The Observer 
Freshman Orientation executive committee applications can be picked up in the student ~ov~rnment office on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due Monday, March 7 by 4 p.m.-The Observer 
The Catholic Faith Series concludes this Sunday and Tuesday when Father Drew Christiansen, S.J., speaks on "Morality" in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel from 7 to 8:30p.m. -The Observer 
Right to Life will meet Sunday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center Little Theatre. The meeting is mandatory for dorm reps and officers. Please bring all material for "Fact-blitz" project. -The Observer 
ObserverOflnterestsandinBriefsmaybesubmitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 2 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free, campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine which items it will publish. -The Observer 

Delign Editor ................... Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Cop!J Editor ..... Patrick Zande Derign A..utant ................. Stew Garcia Accent Cop!J Editor ......... Susan Buckley T!Jpe•eltera .. ............. Becky Gunderman Accent La!Jout ....................... Moira Foll ...................................... Mark Ridgeway ........................................ Heather Hypes New• Editor....................... Regis Coccia Photographer .... : ............ Susi Hernandez Cop!J Editor ...................... Michelle Dall T!Jpiata ..... ......•... ... . ...... .. . . . . . . Will Zamer Sport• Copy Editor.......... Marty strasen .•: •.•••..••..•••...•..•....••••.•••...••... Jenn Conlon ND Da11 Editor .................. Janet Herold 
De 0..... (USPS $99 2~) is published Monday throuab Friday except dllriDI ClWII Uld vacation periods. ne 0.....is published by tbc students of tbc University of Notre c.-Uld Saint Mary's Collcle. Sublcriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (12$ per semester) by writi111 De Olllener, P.O. Boll Q, Notre Dame, India.na 46$S6. 
De 0..... is I member of De AllodaiNI rn.. All reproduction ripts are raervcd. 

Crime isn't a laughing matter 
Crime ... is not supposed to be funny. 
However, crime at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can be interesting, to say the least. Now after months of waiting, here are some of the best entries in Security Beat, with some exag­geration. 
Friday, September 4, 1987 
Two residents of Pangborn Hall reported that during the night four male subjects entered their room and hit them with a wiffle ball bat tlz:;:z:;::;;, 
· ·The next day ... four male subjects reported lt::;;t~~l 

that during the night two residents of Pangborn 
Hall entered their room and hit them with wiffle 
ball bats. Suspects were unknown. 
Security said the above two events were unr­
elated. 
Tuesday, October 6, 1987 
A Dillon Hall resident reported that he found 
a Winchester rifle inside a sofa while looking 
for a lost ring . . . He later discovered a 
Volkswagen while searching in a box of Cracker 
Jacks. 
Friday, March 4, 1988 . . 
In a major Notre Dame Security stmg, 473 
bookbags stolen from the dining halls were 
recovered from a disgruntled librarian. 
Monday, December 7, 1987 
Security was called to assist an Indiana State Trooper at the Campus View Apartments in regards to a Christmas tree which was stolen from Grace Hall ... The thieves were repor­tedly working for the Grinch. 
Tuesday, March 1, 1988 
A Sorin Hall resident reported that his car was stolen while parked in the Dl lot. Investi­gation revealed that the vehicle was not stolen. The car had been taken by someone with an identical car; the. key is the same for both vehicles ... The two people have agreed to al­ways park in different lots to avoid appearing in Security Beat again and looking really silly. 
Thursday, March 12, 1987 
A subject was arrested at the bookstore for attempting to leave the building without paying for a musical tape titled "Innocence Is No Ex­cuse." ... Hopefully he learned his lesson. 
Wednesday, February 25, 1987 
The manager of biological sciences in the Gal­vin Life Science Building reported the theft of 24 bottles of frog embryos ... Security checked 
the dining halls, but frog embryos were not being served. 
~~onday, February 8, 1988 
A Security officer extinguished a toaster oven grease fire in the basement kitchen of Farley Hall. There were no injuries and damage was minimal ... The toast, however, was unable to be saved. 
Monday, April 6, 1987 
A student reported that a man was indecently exposing himself on Bulla Road in the wooded area . . . Can one decently expose oneself on Bulla Road in the wooded area? 
Saturday, February 27, 1988 
Security assisted the Notre Dame Fire De­
partment in responding to a false alarm at 
Cavanaugh Hall ... It was reported to be the 
most exciting thing to have happened at 
Cavanaugh since the hall was built. 
Crime is not funny. 

ND '61
WE"DLIKETO REMIND YOU THAT THE 
ironwood
UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS 
wines and spirits
MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF 
Domestic and imported wines heers liquors. 
THE UNITED STATES. 
(219) 272-7144 THE CONSTITIITION 
I /'25 NOFntl IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH .Bt:ND, IN 41)63.">
l11e \VL'lrds we lh·e ~· 
r"' 


FRIDAY LENTEN SPECIAL 
Try Our Vegetarian Sub, Tuna Sub, 
or Our NEW Seafood Sub complete with Crabmeat. Free Delivery 271-0SUB Regular menu also available) 
Friday, March 4, 1988 
Fatal classified ad costs magazine $9M 
Associated Press Mrs. Black's husband, Robert, is on Texas' death row 
HOUSTON -A federal court for paying John Wayne Hearn jury on Thursday found Soldier $10,000 to kill her. of Fortune magazine negligent in publishing a classified ad Black contacted Hearn that led to the slaying of a through a personal services Texas woman and ordered the classified ad Hearn placed in magazine to pay $9.4 million to Soldier of Fortune in late 1984. the woman's family. Hearn is serving three life 
The jury ordered that $1.5 terms in Florida for the Black million be paid to the woman's slaying and two others in that son and awarded $400,000 to her state. mother. The two received $7.5 Gary Wayne Black, 18, the million in punitive damages. victim's son, and Marjorie 
The verdict followed two Eimann, 64, her mother, had weeks of testimony to a six­sought seeking $22.5 million in person jury, which received the the suit against the self-styled case on Tuesday. "Journal for Professional Ad­
It stemmed from the slaying venturers." Of that, $20 million of Sandra Black at her home in was requested for exemplary Bryan three years ago. damages. 
Pre-Law ~ociety 

Accepting Applications for: 
President Vice-President Secretary News Letter Editor 

Applications can be picked up at 101 O'Shaughnessy and returned by March 11. 
Sean Reilly polishes off yet another rootbeer at the 
a week-long St. Patrick's Day celebration sponsored Irish King drinking contest. The contest was part of 
by SUB. 


lE' ~Vf (()) UJMlB'JB'Ll? JJ~\f(GJ JJ (fJ~yJJ ((}) lt? 3J JJJ)((})~\Jf ~if JJ I!J!£ il :gilAlNl.PJ A !1.? (OJ I!JHlCJ ._. ~ l?!LA H IJ.lBJI.EA 1IJJ 


Sponsored by Office of Engineering Research and Graduate Studies College of Engineering University of Notre Dame 

Friday, March 4, 1988 

Democrats lose aid to Contras in vote 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON· The House on Thursday killed a $30 million package of purely "humanitarian" aid for Nicaragua's Contras that had been pushed by Democrats as a way to ease pressure for fu­ture military aid for the rebels. 
The final vote of 216-208 against the plan came minutes after the lawmakers had voted 215-210 to accept a Democratic version of the aid package that also included sharp restric­tions on how the rebels could use the money and a new fund to aid children who are victims of the Nicaraguan Civil war. 
Defeat of the aid package meant the rebels, whose last 
U.S. aid ran out on Tuesday, would be left without new sup­plies until Congress could make another try at passing an aid bill. 
Liberal Democrats, who have steadfastly opposed aid to the rebels in the past, teamed with Republicans, for whom the package was too weak, to defeat it. 
As the House debated the Democratic plan, Rep. Charles Stenholm, D-Texas, charged that it would have placed con­trol of a $14 million fund to aid children who are victims of the civil war in the hands of the leftist Nicaraguan govern­ment, prompting an angry response from House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas. 
Anyone who makes such a claim "is just lying or he doesn't understand it," Wright said. 
Earlier, the speaker had called the dispute over the aid package "a battle for peace in Nicaragua, and for a construc­tive role for the United States in Central America as opposed to a destructive role." 
But President Reagan, in a letter to pro-Contra forces sent while he was attending a meeting of Western allies in Brussels, Belgium, said Wright's plan "does not meet the essential criteria" of keeping the Contras viable and maintaining military pressure on the Sandinistas. 
He asked for support for a Repqblican aid proposal that backers said provided more flexibility for the Contras, both in the kinds of supplies that could be bought and in the way they would be delivered to troops in the field. 

page 4 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
ment this year," Kitty Arnold, Notre Dame's director of Career and Placement Ser­vices, said Wednesday. "A number of corporations are deciding that hiring off a college campus provides them with a good potential workforce." 
Arnold said she expected more than 10,000 on-campus in­terviews to be conducted at Notre Dame this year, up by 15 percent from 8,400 interviews last year. 
Purdue University's place­ment services director Richard Stewart agreed that the job market is showing new signs of life after what has generally been considered a slack period. 
"It's certainly an improve­ment over the last three years," said Stewart. "It's an upward trend and a positive market. Companies are bring­ing in new blood." 
Indiana University officials also welcomed a surge in cor­porate courtship, noting 59 more companies have ex­pressed an interest in meeting with undergraduate students this year than last. 
C. Randall Powell, IU direc­tor of 'placement and assistant dean for company relations at the IU School of Business, said recruitment activity is reach­ing record levels this year. 
He estimates business stu­dents will have logged more than 23,000 interviews through his office before the spring is over -up from 22,000 a year ago. 
Powell attributes the in­

creased activity to companies' 
expectations for steady eco­
nomic growth and an accompa­
nying boost in hiring. 
Barbara Rogers, director of 

career planning and placement 
at Butler University agreed 
that "employers are moving 
more rapidly this year and 
making more offers." 
"They want to pull out the 

best candidates quickly," she 
said. 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
and reflecting on teaching and women's wisdom in teaching. 
Harris is currently president of the Association of Professors and Researchers in Religious Education. She has published six volumes and more than 50 articles. Thursday night's speech is also available in book form. 
The Madeleva Lectures are.-------------------------. 
Rogers added that there has been a move among prospec­tive employers in the booming service sector toward the well­rounded, often less specialized student. 
''There are more jobs being created for the person who has communication skills, execu­tive presence, the ability to learn quickly and good drive," Rogers said. "They will get the job even without a technical background." 
Purdue's Stewart agreed that less technically oriented students were getting jobs, but said that prospective employers really "like some­one with a liberal education 
who can also program a com­
puter and handle accounting." 
Ball State University offi­
cials were not as impressed by 
increased corporate recruit­
ment. Assistant Director of 
Career Services Reed Sieben­
thal maintained that the high 
costs of on-campus recruiting 
had encouraged cut-backs 
among some companies. 
"There is less emphasis as far as on-campus recruiting goes," he said, "and a large part of hiring is dependent on the student's initiative. We want to make sure that any stu­dent out of Ball State will be well-grounded in job search. 
._......._..._.._,,_.._._~,_,~,_.,~,._.,~,_..~.._..---~-l 
1I  Nl) AVE APTS. l~arly Bird Special  , f  
1  Now·. renting for Fall  I  
1 2  Bedrooms  completely furnished  I  

I Sign up before break and Call I I receive a 10o/o discount 234-6647 I 
l!~!:.:!.~-~_P_!.~~~.~~~~-~~~~L.J 
sponsored by the Center of Spirtuality at Saint Mary's. 
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't drivedrunk. 
Reader's Digest 

ALL AMERICAN SELF STORAGE 
5213 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 272-4434 
-1/4 mile South of University Park Mall, next to Circle Lumber -Reserve your space with us NOW! -Managers on-site -Electronically controlled gate with 24 hour access -All sizes available 


This week at the Snite: Friday, March 4. 7:30 & 9:30pm. TRUE STORIES 
David Byrne's rock tour of Virgil, Texas. 
Monday, March 7. Tuesday, March 8, 
7:00 pm. 7:00 pm. CELINE & JULIE Avantgarde Series GO BOATING THE WIND IS DRIVING TOWARD 
Jacques Rivette's THE OPEN SEA meditation on myth, 
8:15pm.
childhood. fantasy, 
LA DOLCE VITA

gothic melodrama & film-making itself. 
Fellini's brilliant acade­myaward-winning film. 

Individual admission $2.00 With the support of the Indiana Arts Commission 
a: the National Endowment for the Arts 


Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Good Luck Wrestlers in regionals this weekend! 
-The Geneser's 
HAVE A "HUGE" BIRTHDAY MICHAEL ROE 



Friday, March 4, 1988 
The Observer 
Security Beat 
Tuesday, March 1 
7:50p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported her camera and passport were stolen from her unlocked room some­time between Feb. 28 and 7:50 p.m. on March I. Her loss is estimated at $600. 
7:45p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported that two rings were stolen from her unlocked room. The incident occurred three weeks prior to this re­port. Her loss is estimated at $300. 
Wednesday, March 2 
5:40a.m. During a patrol of Green Field. a Notre Dame Security officer discovered that two cars were vandal­ized. These incidents arc believed to have occurred between 12:26 a.m. and 
4:47 a.m. Damages are estimated at $125. 
Thursday, March 3 
8:30 a.m. An off-campus student reported that his wallet and its contents were stolen from outside the varsity locker room in the Joyce ACC some­time between II: 15 p.m. on March 2 and 12:15 a.m. on March 3. 
3:30 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported that his bookbag and its con­tents were stolen from Room 117 O'Shaughnessy Hall sometime between I p.m.and I :05 p.m. His loss is esti­
mated at $68. 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez

Managing time 
SMC students Colleen Cary and her classmates com­dents participate in such activities as part of their pare notes after their Quantum group activity. Stu-management class. 
target of tests 
WASHINGTON -The Trans­portation Department pro­posed Thursday widespread drug testing covering tens of thousands of airline employees and said such tests are needed to "maintain public confi­dence" in the aviation system. 
The proposal, due to take ef­fect in several months, would cover pilots, flight attendants and other workers involved with safety or security. 
Aviation unions have strongly opposed widespread testing, arguing j;hat no evidence has been produced showing drug use to be a sig­nificant problem among the na­tion's airlines. 
But Transportation Secre­tary Jim Burnley said at a news conference that the tests are needed because "all it takes is one person on drugs in one of these sensitive airline jobs to endanger the lives of hundreds of innocent people." 

The regulation, when it takes affect after a period of public comment, would require a broad range of testing includ­ing pre-employment tests, ran­dom tests and post-accident tests. 
Employees covered by the proposal would include all flight crew members as well as aircraft dispatcners, mec­hanics and security workers at airport screening checkpoints. 


'Jfu: fllniuE'l-5.-itLJ o( c/Vot'"LE-!DamE­'-"nd thE­


flnuitE-thE-c/Vot'"LE-fJ::JamE-~tttdE-nt !Bod!J to thE-fJ::JE-dication o ( 
"The Knute Rockne Commemorative Stamp" 
with (Prz_incipaf ~pE-akE-'"L 
PRESIDENT RoNALD REAGAN 
cll!(a'l-czh 9J 1988 a1 tht:­:}oyce clfthLdicz & ContJoczalion Cente'l-~ena at 
12:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame students will obtain their tickets at Gate 10 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. today and Saturday. One ticket will be given per J.D. card, and a student can present as many as four l.D's. 


Young 
continued from page 1 

Young was chosen because ''he was the most qualified speaker, not just because he is black." 
Lionel Coleman, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, said, "This can be pos­itive if handled correctly. It is very timely (in light of the Uni­versity's recently announced effort to increase minority awareness on campus)." 
Other students expressed positive feelings for the choice of Young. Chris Simms, a black senior, called the selection "a positive step. I have never heard him, but his background is good." 
Tillman's roommate Bill Milon, who is white, expressed similar sentiments. "Andrew Young is very qualified. He will speak from a good perspective, and he is well educated," Milon said. "I want to hear what he has to say." 
But student opinion varied on 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 
what Young will say in his ad­dress. "I'm not sure if his
The jig is up 

Julie Bradley of Lewis, left, Dan lzzo of Keenan, Meg speech will be minority­
The students were competing for the titles of Irish 
oriented," said Coleman. "I
Davin of Howard and Dick Roberson of Holy Cross King and Queen. 
am sure he will give the appro­
attempt an Irish jig at Theodore's Thursday night. 

priate speech at the appropri­ate time. He is talking to a group of graduates and will
Toothbrush facts hard to swallow 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Many have brushed, but only a few have swallowed. 
So say researchers who scrutinized medical literature and found exactly 31 cases in all recorded history of people somehow managing to swallow their toothbrushes. 
Four of those incidents oc­curred in Durham, N.C., in recent years, Dr. Allan Kirk of Duke University Medical Cen­ter and colleagues reported in the March issue of the Archives of Surgery. 
• 

Two of the North Carolina swallowers apparently had drunk a large quantity of alco­hol, while a third was a 60-year­old woman who had a seizure while brushing her teeth. She complained only of throat pain but examination revealed the brush stuck in the esophagus and it was removed with for­ceps. 
The fourth victim was a 20­year-old woman who developed a violent coughing spell while brushing her teeth. The brush made its way to her stomach and surgeons snared it with a 
aim his speech toward them," Coleman added. , Coleman doubted Youngwire dropped down through her would mention the minority sit­
mouth. 
uation at Notre Dame in his 
Despite the unusual cluster 
in Durh~m, "This problem 
should probably not be consid­ered endemic to this part of North Carolina," the research­ers wrote. 
The other reports of toothbrush swallowing in this country are isolated with one each in San Francisco, Tennes­see and Louisiana. 
One region in India reported six such swallowings between 1960 and 1973. 
Friday, March 4, 1988 
speech. "Young may not know anything about the situation here at ND." "His speech will be geared toward worldly experience," said Simms. "He will talk to graduates about their future. He is probably not aware of the situation here," said Simms. 
Holder, however, said he felt Young ''will definitely put forth issues of minority concerns." Moreover, Holder said he feels Young will mention apartheid. "I don't see how he could not, especially with his U.N. expe­rience. He will put ... in every­one's mind what divestment and apartheid are," she said. 
The choice of Young as com­mencement speaker came soon after the University's an­nouncement to make an effort to increase enrollment of minorities through the forma­tion of a $12 million endowment for minority financial aid. Minority student opinion on Young's selection in relation to this new minority awareness was also positive. 
"On the surface, it is one in a continuing series of efforts to bring minority concerns to the forefront of campus discus­sion," Tillman said. 
Commencement exercises will be held in the Joyce ACC on Sunday, May 15. Young will address the graduates and the audience that afternoon. 
II 
Happy 20th birthday, 
Michael Roe
n3/6/68 was 
a great day! We love you! 

For Summer Session Bulletin and application 
~-----· 
Mail this coupon to: Summer Session, Building I Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-2074 or call (415) 723-3109 
STANFORD 
SUMMER 
c..
;::;

~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIMIIIIIIIII..IIDIIIIIUII 
A"~ 58e I
Tonight 

4ql1l· i 
1""l I 
I =

THE GROOVE 0'11 i 
one of campus' hottest new bands start at 1 0:00 
_come early, and take advantage of our food special: IIbuy 1 soda, get NACHOS or BREADSTICKS FREE I 
(special is good only until 11 :00) I or stop by after Bengal Bouts, and use your ticket I 
JUNE 20 THROUGH AUGUST 13 
stub to get a 112 price soda. I 
______ .. 
= 

DIIDUIUIIIIIHIIIIUIUIIHIIHIHIIIIDDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIDIIIIHIDDUIIDIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIJIIIIUIIIWUUIWWIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIJII~ 
______.......,____________ 

Friday, March 4, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Senate bill bans lie detectors on the job 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Lie detec­tors, likened by one lawmaker to "20th century witchcraft," would be largely banned from use in job interviews and the private workplace under legis­lation approved by the Senate on Thursday. 
On a 69-27 vote, the Senate approved a bill co-written by Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah -normally adversaries on labor-management issues ­outlawing about 85 percent of the current use of polygraph examinations. 
Conservative opponents predicted that President Reagan would sign the legisla­tion once a final version of the bill has emerged from a Senate-House conference. 
An estimated 2 million people, most of them job seekers, are required to take lie detector tests every year, and that number is growing ex­ponentially, said Kennedy, who chairs the Senate's Labor and Human Resources Committee. 
Hatch, the committee's 
#*******************************"* 
~ .,~ .·~ 
* 
* 
* 
** .........
* .-~~~ * 
ranking Republican, said an overwhelming majority of the tests are conducted in brief 15­minute sessions and under con­ditions that render false results between 15 percent and 50 per­cent of the time. 
"I'm sick and tired of the way people are using these devices," he said. "Some 320,000 honest Americans are branded as liars every single year. That's a stigma they have to wear every day the rest of their lives and careers." 
Similar but more restrictive legislation was approved by the House 254-158 last November. 
Kennedy said he planned to meet with Rep. Pat Williams, D-Mont., chief author of the House version, within the next two weeks to work out a plan for resolving differences be­tween the two versions in a compromise that could win passage in both houses. 
"They ban about 90 percent, and we ban about 85 percent," he said, predicting the new prohibition will become law before the end of the year "with or without the president's sup­port." 

Happy 22nd! COLLEEN ! * Love, * * Mom ef. Dad * 
* *
* * 
** Coco ** 
: 3-6-88 : 
**********************************~ 
You've Come A ~ 
Long Way Baba * 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 


The Observer I Susy Hernandez

What's news? 
St. Mary's students discuss The Observer over lunch Dame and St. Mary's students with information about at the SMC dining hall. The Observer provides Notre world-wide and campus events daily. 
Indiana AIDS victim recounts struggles 
Associated Press and enjoy day-to-day activi­
ties." 

WASHINGTON -"I came As it turned out, those modest face to face with death at 13 goals were not so easy to attain, years old," Ryan White told the mostly because of the ridicule White House AIDS commission heaped on him by others in Thursday. Kokomo. 
That was three years ago "Because of the lack of edu­when he was diagnosed as cation on AIDS, discrimina­having the deadly disease tion, fear, panic and lies sur­during surgery to remove part rounded me," he told the of his lung because of commission. "I was labeled a pneumonia. Doctors gave him trouble-maker, my mom an un­six months to live. fit mother, and I was not wel­
But the Indiana youngster come anywhere. People would told the panel he decided in­get up and leave so they would stead "to live a normal life, go not have to sit anywhere near to school, be with my friends me. Even at church, people 
would not shake my hand." 
Finally, last summer, Ryan, his mother and sister decided to move to another Indiana town -Arcadia. There things

~~l.~r?~Stce fSJt1fitt~~o~&B~ 
were different.

@' W@ Jl "IJee. "'B1t [ar~ ~ 
They had the good fortune to move three doors away from Jill Stewart, who had just been elected president of the student council and welcomed Ryan as a neighbor. 
She sat beside him Thursday while Ryan told his story, and then she told her own -about how the 600 students at Hamil­ton Heights High School "had witnessed Ryan's pain in his former community" and how they decided "there was no rea­son for Ryan to go through that pain again." 
She told how school officials worked with the student coun­cil and parents to educate the community about acquired im­mune deficiency syndrome. 
FREE TOPPINGS! £@ St. Pat's Pep Rally & @ 
Any Size Pizza With Unlimited Toppings For The Cheese Pizza Price: 10" -$4.50
q;g Crowning Ceremony ~ 
14" -$6.50 
@ ~ 
Friday at 7:30 ~ 
5:30p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
@ Fieldhouse Mall ~ 
@ @ 
{} Tom Tisa-WVFI DJ from 7:00-7:30 ~ 
@ Cheerleaders -bagpiper ~ 
0 Pep rally is for the Marquette ~ \.)UJ basketball game. \A}) 
£@ @ f£8@ 



Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, March 4, 1988 
P.O. Box Q 
Army and rebels hurt Salvador 

Dear Editor: 
Erica Dahl-Bredine's Feb. 29 article, '"Peace' in El Salvador," may well provide a speedy education for anyone naive enough to believe that peace, democracy and stability in Central America depend simply upon ensuring the right of the region's peoples to self­determination, free of the nefarioius machinations of Yankee imperialism. But it is also disturbingly one-sided. By tacitly suggesting that the Salvadoran army and its death squads are alone responsible for the horrors of that pat­hetic country's civil war, Ms. Dahl­Bredine has given us not an accurate portrayal of El Salvador's sorry plight, but rather an exercise in distortion by omission. 
No serious observer of the situation in El Salvador can deny that, the facade of democracy notwithstanding, the armed forces ultimately call the shots in that country, or that for many years military death squads have ravaged city and countryside alike in orgies of political murder. Nor is it any secret that thousands of innocent civilians have been slaughtered under the pretext of anti-guerrilla military opera­tions. Injustices and atrocities like those which Ms. Dahl-Bredine either witnessed firsthand or later became well aware of are quite commonplace, and her article goes a long way toward dispelling the preposterous notion that El Salvador's importance to the United States lies in a democratic political her­itage worth saving. 
Unfortunately and dangerously, however, Ms. Dahl-Bredine has totally ignored the no less barbarous activities of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, the intractable Mar­xist guerrilla organization which for the last eight years has fought to overthrow the Salvadoran government. Despite the "severe lack of information in the press" cited by Ms. Dahl-Bredine, anyone literate enough to read a news­paper ought to know that the rebels have been equally unscrupulous in the use of gratuitous violence, compound­ing the agonies of the civilian popula­tion. In a far more balanced dispatch from San Salvador appearing in The New York Times on Feb. 29, an expe­rienced correspondent reported that both sides have launched renewed cam­paigns of political killings in anticipa­tion of upcoming legislative and municipal elections. 
Lest anyone delude himself into seeing the rebels as democratic desperadoes, the FMLN on Feb. 26 issued a communique reiterating their "national plan of war and destabiliza­tion." The Times reported that the guerrillas have sworn to kill anyone participating in the elections, whether voter, candidate, official or foreign ob­server. In one village the guerrillas ex­ecuted two peasants who had dared to register to vote ; their corpses were left rotting in the sun with their registration cards in their mouths as a warning to passersby who might be inclined to betray the revolutioin. In the advance­ment of their glorious cause, the rebels have regularly kidnapped and some­times executed mayors and mayoral candidates, bombed the offices of con­stitutional political parties, halted traffic on the country's highways by bombing or machine-gunning civilian automobiles and buses and recently scored a smashing triumph by depriv­ing much of El Salvador of electricity. To paraphrase Jonathan Swift, the Sal­vadoran rebels have proven them­selves to be among the most pernicious, bloodthirsty vermin that Nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth. 
There is a tragic note to this story in the fate of the village of Usuluta, where Ms. Dahl-Bredine was greeted by a small children's chorus. In the last two weeks, reported the New York Times today, seven civilians in that town have been killed by guerilla mortar fire and four others have perished from rebel­laid mines. 
In no way whatsoever do I mean to 

BISU BElT 

~---------------------------------------------------------J 
Doonesbury 
THE OUTS/~ 511014/W UP NeXT IA CR{JW() QIJICKL.Y FORME(). I AT 7H& LIKAi-5701''N'5HOP. 
MAifM, ()0 YOfJ 3 FOR 89¢ r !<JJCWHOIQ MIJGI I AKOI?&AN HOMt­
MAK£R PAY5 FOR 7HI5 CALIFORNIA 
ORANG8~ 
/ 

NO,MA:4M. AFTeR THeY 
FINI5H 5LAPPING IJfJTYANlJ 7AX&9 ONIT, A S!Nete 
0/?ANGtR£­
TA/t-S FOR 
1'62.501 
/ 
impunge Ms. Dahl-Bredine's veracity of her intelligence, and least of all her admirable generosity and selflessness made manifest by her work with the people of El Salvador. In the future, however, she should be more careful in order not to become an unwitting propaganda tool of one side or another in a murderous civil war, in which there are neither victors nor heroes nor decent causes, only victims. 
PaulA. Newett 
Morrissey Hall 
Februaru 29. 1988 
Dome does not 
need real gold 

Dear Editor: 
This will likely be an unpopular let­ter; I know that I am probably in a very small minority on this one, but I feel I must express my amazement. $300,000 (that's nearly ];3 of a million dollars ! ) will be spent turning the gold on the dome back into the "real thing! " That, to me, is outrageous, especially when I consider the level of human need in ths world today and the demands of responsible stewardship. Is there any cost which would have been too high? When we finally face up to the questions that the Spirit continues to ask us, "When I was hungry did you feed me? When I was sick did you take care of me?," we will have to answer, "Yeah, sometimes, but often we were too busy building monuments with which to glorify ourselves." It wouldn't even surprise me if the gold itself came from South Africa! 
Carol Stuart Off-campus February 29, 1988 
Pax Christi protest untimely 

Dear Editor: 
On Friday, Feb. 26, The Observer re­ported that the local Notre Dame chap­ter of Pax Christi would be staging a non-violent protest to President Reagan's visit to the campus on March 
9. Pax Christi member Tom Esch ex­plained that the group intended to take advantage of Reagan's visit by protest­ing his policies which they find objec­tionable. The group hopes to "call our country to greater justice with domes­tic and foreign policy." 
As admirable as these intentions may be, the commemoration of a stamp to Notre Dame legend Knute Rockne is neither the time nor place to voice them. It is totally inappropriate for any organization to protest government ac­tions at a function in which the Presi­dent is appearing as Head of State. If Mr. Reagan were here to beg for Contra funds from the student body, such pro­testing would be suitable. He is not here for that reason, however, and he is doing this University a service by making a personal appearance here. I am not attempting to portray his visit 
Garry Trudeau 

as the second coming, but cfarly the President does not take time out of his schedule to make personal appear­ances at every college in the nation. There are many reasonable and effec­tive ways which an organization can use to protest a political leader or his policies. Instead of choosing one of these more acceptable methods, Pax Christi has chosen to embarrass the student body and possibly give the President an unfavorable impression of Notre Dame. I would ask the members of Pax Christi to rethink their decision and allow the commemoration to be a memorable event for both the student body and the President. 
James M. Lang Grace Hall February 26, 1988 

Room pick system run poorly 
Dear Editor: 
It is once again time for room pick numbers to be posted along with a sense of fear, hope and panic. Considering the upcoming year will be my senior year, I was hoping for a low number. But once again, for the third year in a row, I was in the last part of the class, more specifically eight people from the end. 
I am not the only person with such a problem. Many others are right there with me. It is sad that when one gets her room deposit in immediately that her number is so high. 
This room pick system is ridiculous. Housing says there is no better way to do it, but obviously they are not think­ing very hard. I have a suggestion for them. If they would run room picks in a similar way as registration, things would be much more fair. Those with low numbers one year should be placed in a second lottery of higher numbers. This would give all students a chance of getting the rooms of their choice. 
As a senior, I will luckily not have to deal with rooming again, which is quite a relief since the system is such a mess. I only hope things will change for un­derclassmen. 
Lisa LaMalfa LeMans Hall March 2, 1988 

Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of peo­
ple  who  feel  t h e i r  
opinions  do  make  a  
difference.  Write  to  P.0.  

Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Quote of the Day 
"Show me a good and gracious loser and I'll show you a failure." 
Knute Rockne 

Friday, March 4, 1988 page 9
Viewpoint 
Shedding new light on Opus Dei 
It is regrettable though not surprisi­ing that Ms. Ann Pettifer remains un­able to pass beyond the stage of the argumentum ad hominem. Is she not aware that the academic community and the University, while a place for open discussiion and respect for the reasoned opinion of others, is also a place for the objective presentation of facts and arguments based on those facts? Again she has tried to sweep un­der the rug the reasons why graduate students should not support Common Sense, and the reasons why a publica­tion which contains slanderous attacks on the Church hierarchy, and particu­larly the Holy Father, should be given no official status or recognition on a Catholic university campus. 
Thomas D'Andrea 
guest column 

It is of course in one sense irrelevant to my debate with Ms. Pettifer that I am a member of Opus Dei. The most casual reader of our exchange on the Common Sense issue can see that. But since she has desired to bring Opus Dei to the fore, and since membership in Opus Dei is something I take great pride in, I am compelled to respond to the totally unfounded claims she makes. To do this I can but appeal to certain facts--facts which will hopefully remove from the minds of the readers of these pages any distortions about Opus Dei that Ms. Pettifer's irrespon­sible utterances may have caused. 
First, Opus Dei was founded in Spain in 1928 (i.e. eight years before the Spanish Civil War) by a Spanish priest, Msgr. Josemaria Escriva de Balaguer. The inspiration for its foundation was purely spiritual and theological and had absolutely nothing to do with the Spanish politics of the time. It can easily be confirmed by those who take the trouble to investigate that among the political opponents exiled by Fran­cisco Franco from Spain for their out­spoken opposition to his regime were several members of Opus Dei. 
Opus Dei has never and will never tow any political line: conservative, liberal or anything in between. It has emphatically no corporate, political or social agenda. It exists solely to give doctrinal and spiritual formation to or­dinary citizens and so help them deepen their faith and attain holiness in the midst of their ordinary occupations-­their work, their social life, their familial and civic responsibilities-­while bringing those around them closer to Christ. Were an individual to join Opus Dei and attempt to impose on others his own views concerning various temporal matters (be they in the sphere of economics, politics or any area where there is room for legitimate debate among the Catholic faithful) he would be asked to leave. 
Far from being opposed to "anything that smacks of openness and consulta­tion in the Church," the spirituality of Opus Dei trumpets and fiercely defends the right and duty of Catholics to exer­cise their freedom and responsibility as children of God and form their own views on temporal matters. Members of Opus Dei are encouraged to exercise personal initiative and to use their own judgement, professional training and expertise in seeking the solution totem­poral problems (all the while bringing to bear on these problems the light of the Gospel and principles of Catholic Doctrine). 
This characteristic of Opus Dei is still not understood by those who want to tax the Church and the Church hierarchy with some official deter­minate political, economic or social stance. Such individuals, by demanding that members of the hierarchy give an exclusive Catholic endorsement to any one of a number of potentially legitimate political, social, economic or philosophical positions a member of the Catholic faithful is permitted to hold, end up squandering the credibility of that hierarchy. In the vast range of areas where there is no official Catholic position, and where members of the clergy and Church hierarchy lack ex­pertise, it is the prerogative and duty of the Catholic layman to act on his informed conscience and exercise ini­tiative, creativity and responsibility. Opus Dei exists to bear witness to this. 
How much freedom and plurality in temporal matters do you tolerate, Ms. Pettifer? 
Second, there are no secrets in Opus Dei hidden from the eyes of the Church, and there is nothing "secretive" about the organization per se. The former is easily established. When Opus Dei was granted the status of a Personal Prela­ture (a juridical entity created by the Second Vatican Council to promote pas­toral initiatives) in 1982 by Pope John Paul II, nearly all of the slightly more than 2,000 bishops consulted on the mat­ter were in support of the Pope's deci­sion. In any diocese in the world where there is an Opus Dei center, (and there are centers in over 40 countries) that center functions with the express per­mission of the bishop or local ordinary. Anyone who has any doubts about our legitimacy or solidarity with the uni­versal Church can simply consult his bishop. 
All centers of Opus Dei are listed in the phone book, and anyone is free to visit them and find out about their ac­tivities and the doctrinal and spiritual formation they provide as a service to the Church. 
Members of Opus Dei do not conceal their involvement with the organization but are encouraged to tell friends, rela­tives and business associates about it. That is our apostolate--a personal apostolate carried out with naturalness and based on friendship and trust. We aren't missionaries, soap-box preac­hers or crusaders with some covert po­litical or ecclesiastical agenda, just or­dinary citizens seeking to bring the message of the Gospel in a personal one-on-one way to those individuals God has placed near us in our social sur­roundings and place of work. 
Third, far from being "obliged to lay low" during the heyday of the Second Vatican Council, a number of members of Opus Dei, including the current Pr­elate Msgr. Alvaro Del Protillo, played a significant role in drafting some of the council's most important docu­ments (e.g. Presbyterorum Ordinis, Apostolicam Actuositatem). Anyone with even a scant knowledge of the his­tory of Catholic spirituality knows that the spirituality of Opus Dei represents and represented a significant anticipa­tion of some of the most important developments of Vatican II. I am speaking of Vatican II's emphasis on the universal call to holiness, the need for lay initiative in the temporal sphere, and the importance of lay apostolate to name only a few. 
When some of the official founda­tional documents of Opus Dei were first presented to the Vatican in the early forties, a Curia official remarked, "You have come a century too early." Many of the developments of Vatican II then bore testimony to the legitimacy and timeliness of the spirituality of Opus Dei. 
Fourth, Opus Dei has 80,000 members world-wide, 1,200 priests and over 1 mil­lion Catholic and non-Catholic cooperators. Far from there being few Catholics who know anything about it, it is, despite its youth, one of the best­loved institutions in the Church. At a recent public gathering in Milwaukee, Opus Dei Prelate Alvaro del Portillo conveyed to his audience the greeting of Archbishop Rembert Weakland and the personal message that he has "a great love for Opus Dei." That should allay any fears that Opus Dei is "fas­cistic" or has any corporate ties to con­servative politics and has only a narrow appeal within the Church as a result. 
Finally, because of his renowned holi­ness of life, the founder of Opus Dei, Msgr. Escriva, who died in 1975, has been proposed for canonization, and that process is moving ahead steadily. 
In the light of these facts one can see how little weight Ms. Pettifer's uni­nformed, third-hand hearsay has. It is evident that her problem is not with me or Opus Dei, but with the Church and ultimately with Christ. Thomas D. D'Andrea is a graduate stu­dent. 
P.O. Box Q 
Reagan skirts Constitution 

Editor's Note: The following is the last in a series offive letters that will coin­cide with President Reagan's visit to campus. Dear Editor: 
President Reagan's upcoming visit to campus provides a forum for discuss­ing his administration's policies. The Iran-Contra affair raises three impor­tant issues: first, whether the system of checks and balances is working; second, the contradiction between public and private U.S. foreign policy; and third, the privatization of covert activities. 
According to the November 1987 Con­gressional report on the hearings, "The common ingredients of the Iran and Contra policies were secrecy, deception and disdain for the law." The Reagan administration assumed more author­ity than the Constitution intended the Executive to exercise. Only Congress can constitutionally provide funds for the Executive. Profits from the sale of arms to Iran were illegally used to cir­cumvent the 1984 Boland Amendment which cut off aid to the Contras. This shows the failure of the Reagan admin­istration to respect the checks of our Constitutional system. 
The arms exchanged for the release of U.S. hostages in Iran contradicted our public policy of discouraging ter­rorism. It violated the Arms-Export Control Act which requires legislative approval for military sales. The U.S., by selling arms to Iran, broke the em­bargo it had petitioned for so diligently. The obvious contradiction between our public condemnation of terrorism and our covert weapons deals seriously un­dermines the credibility of U.S. foreign policy. 
Finally, the Iran-Contra affair shows the danger of privatizing foreign policy. Many of the deals were made by private citizens. The National Security Council acted outside its intended advisory role, by gathering and conducting covert operations. According to the Congres­sional report: "A small group of senior officials believed that they alone knew what was right." 
We may never know the full history of the Iran-Contra affair. We do know the Reagan policies failed: there was no reduction in the number of hostages, a substantial part of the profits from illegal arms sales ended up in private bank accounts, and the U.S. suffered a significant loss of credibility in world affairs. The experience reminds us that our Constitution is built on an inter­dependent system of rights and duties. As citizens it is our duty to question government misconduct; we must not be afraid to speak. 
Lynne M. Woehrle Pax Christi-Notre Dame February 26, 1988 

ND tradition built by men 
Dear Editor: 
Miss Seiger's argument in her letter that appeared in the Feb. 19 Observer is indeed interesting. She claims that President Reagan's connection with Notre Dame and the Notre Dame tradi­tion is arrogant and false, at best. Greater ignorance has spewed from less-taught babes. Ronald Reagan played an integral part in helping spread the fame and tradition of Notre Dame through his portrayal of George Gipp in "Knute Rockne: All­American." So before Miss Seiger again tries to make the Notre Dame tradition so exclusive, let her remem­ber that the great tradition and name­-characterized by its universal appeal-­that she holds so dear was one built by men, virtually exclusive of the en­deavors of women. Notre Dame men were magnanimous enough to allow wo­men into the tradition. Yet this woman would exclude Ronald Reagan! In­credible. "Go Gipper!" 
Bill Sammon Alumni Hall February 25, 1988 

The Observer retains the right to edit all let­ters and columns sub­mitted for print. Please note the more concise the letter, the more likely its chances of reaching print. 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief..........  .. .. Kevin Becker  Smlness Manager ............................. John Oxrider  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor.... News Editor........ ..  . . .. ....... Mark Pankowski .. ... Chris Bednarski  Advettlslng Design Manager ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clanc  
News Editor ............................................. Jim Ailey  Producllon Manager ...................... Melissa Wamke  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ol the University o1 Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily rellecl the policies ol the adminietration ol either instrtulion. The News is repor\lld as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsig.,ed editorials represent the opinion ol the majority ol the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space  Vlewpoinl Editor.... Sporrs Edilor...... Accent Editor..... Saini Mary's Edilor. ... Pholo Editor.........  .. ............Chris Murphy .. ........... Dennis Corrigan .. ..... Michael Naughton . ... Sandy Cerimele .. ..... Jim CarrOll  Projects Manager ......................... Mane Mcl.aughNn Syafems MaMiger ............................ Shawn Sexton ConlrDI/er ........................................ Tracy Schindele Oraphlc Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton  
is available to all members olthe school community. and the tree expression o1 varying opinions  
on campus, through letters. is encouraged.  


-~--~-------------~----. 
Ace
Friday, March 4, 1988 

Olympic Stadium
The Catholic Church as an 
T
he Roman Catholic Church: super-Christian. Yet I'm sure Spellman choose to serve the 
how bad is it, and how cor­I've never understood him. I've President as though he were rupt, and how often does it do criticized him, and then been the chief morale officer of the the work of anti-Christ for him? embarrassed by the shallow­Vietnam war, when he should 
I'm reading Daniel Berrigan's ness of the criticism with which have left himself free to be a recently published autobiogra­I tried to measure his depth. critic of the war? phy. He shows a Church that Who could resist criticizing Spellman, as military vicar, made war on peacemakers who him when he seemed out-might have answered that patri­
were qualified to be called the rageous? My criticism was an otism is no sin, for which he children of God. attempt to get him out of the 
should be ashamed before God. He might have said: "Our country...may she always be in the right; but for our country,
Father Robert Griffin 
right or wrong!" Chesterton commented: "'My country, right
Letters to a Lonely God 
or wrong.' is like saying 'My mother, drunk or sober!"' Was Spellman a jingoist? If 
Berrigan, a Jesuit priest, was way as a stumbling block trou-so, should we condemn him as highly visible during the Viet-bling my conscience. It isn't a war-monger who was dis­nam era as a peace activist. He fair to myself to say that he obedient to the spirit of the was a headache to the U.S. tweaked the noses of the High Gospel? As a churchman, government and an embarrass-and Mighty, whose behinds I should he have known better? ment to the hierarchical would have kissed if I had But then, doesn't God make us Church, though many Catholics been asked to, since I rarely a gift of His mercy, because all regarded him as an indispen-got within shouting distance of of us should have known better sable prophet. the High and Mighty, to whom than to make the mistakes that 
Now he has written a pas-the name Berrigan was a count against us as sins? Who sionate book in which he tells household word. am I to say the old Cardinal us some of the troubles he's Is Berrigan, then, my hero? I was ignorant of the will of seen. Catholics who regard hardly know the man; and if I God? Berrigan as a trouble-maker did know him, I'm not sure if All -from John Paul II to the would probably like to see him I'd like him or if he would like Mayflower Madame -have dead of hemlock poisoning; or approve of me. Yet I regard sinned and come short of the but wouldn't it be more honest him as a kindred spirit when glory of God. That much sin to listen to him? Why should he points out that priests in makes the Church look pretty we write him off? He's been trouble soon find who their shabby. "Has anyone noticed loyal to Christ as a suffering friends are. The many friends what an inhospitable place the servant. who helped Berrigan were not Roman Church has become for 
As a priest of my generation necessarily Jesuits or bishops sinners?" Ann Pettifer wrote the (he's five years older than I am who should be fathers to their other day. Nevertheless, if we and was ordained two years flock. Berrigan, coming to this hadn't sinned, there would be earlier), Berrigan's experience insight, must have experienced no Church, and God might of the Church has been differ-betrayals that pained him deep-never have sent His Son as our ent from mine. That's not ly. That kind of betrayal makes saviour. surprising. since he is much him my friend and brother, Once in a while, a more gifted, intelligent and though we've never met. I thoroughbred like Dan Berrigan sensitive; and he has seen a lot would like to be the type of appears, measuring the dis-mare. Growing up with five friend and brother that great-tance between the Church and brothers, he was exposed to hearted people like Berrigan Jesus. He complains that Chris-the alleged cruelties in the would turn to if they were tians have failed to be Catholic schools. I joined the feeling wounded. peacemakers. He could have Church as a young adult I'm interested in Berrigan as complained that Christians put looking for the true religion in a critic of the Church. Is the no stock in being pure of the same way a gourmet Church just another power heart. Centuries ago, Chris-
samples wine looking for a per-structure, sacred rather than tians, appalled by the excesses feet vintage. secular in its pretensions and of pagan Rome, went to the 
I've admired Berrigan from more anxious to please Caesar desert to live, where temptation afar for many years -as a poet, than Christ? couldn't reach them. Berrigan as a priest with guts and as a Why did the late Cardinal could have complained that the 
Model trains create a 
hobbyist's fantasyland 
Associated Press 1,815 square feet of room. 
KENDALL, Fla.-For Bob Cher­Americana, complete with Inside his train room, Cher­may, it began with a four-piece cities, country towns, industrial rnay is no longer a company electric train set his parents complexes, farms and ranches, executive -he heads a multi­gave him for Christmas when and vehicles -all in quarter-inch faceted automatic transmission he was 4 years old. scale. consulting firm. Shut off from 
Fifty years later, Cherrnay Miniature people are the business world, Cherrnay is still has that $12.95 gift put everywhere in his fantasy land an overgrown boy who is proud away in its original box, and he -working. playing and doing of his toys. continues to play with trains. what real people do. "Look at that New York 
Only now, his train layout is On the edge of a lake, close Central train. That's what I re­so large it fills a room bigger to a railroad trestle, an emer­member when I was a kid in than many homes, requires six gency crew works on a half­the Bronx, New York. Did you cameras and television submerged car that has see that White Castle ham­monitors to keep track of it plunged into the water. An am­burger place over there?" he and is operated from banks of bulance and rescue workers asked enthusiastically pointing switches, control panels and stand by for casualties. over a mountain. gadgetry similar to those used Between two dilapidated, "Let me show you an old in lifesize rail terminals. handmade buildings, a mug­Amtrak. Now, where is it?" he 
"Model trains are therapy," ging can be seen in a litter­asked as he scanned the said Cherrnay, who sheds the strewn alley. Across town, an monitors and worked a couple pressures of the business world elevated train station is filled of switches to make the replica whenever he enters the 55-by­with waiting passengers, while come choo-chooing through a .3.3-foot train room he included in the street below police are tunnel at Kruse Junction and in the home he built here in involved in a shootout with head for Walkers Corner and 1970. some felons. eventually the South Hills 
Cherrnay's Rolling Hills Rail­Skies and horizons of Cher­roundhouse. road is more than 0-gauge may's miniature world are It took Cherrnay a year just model trains, however. It's painted on the walls of the to lay the 5,000 feet of nickel­hungerers and thirsters <:tfter 
righteousness are still hunger­
ing and thirsting. 
Are we light-years away from 
the blessings promised to the 
meek according to the 

blueprint of the New Jerusalem 
published in the Sermon on 
the Mount? What more can we 
expect from a human element 
bruised with sin from head to 
toe: creatures crushed under 
the weight of centuries when 
sounds of ignorant armies, 
clashing by night, have 
drowned out the Gospel? Has 
Christianity failed? 
No, it has not, as long as 
wound-dressers of the spirit 
like Berrigan keep surfacing. 
volunteering themselves in a mission to keep the rest of us· honest. Who claimed that as Christians, Berrigan and the other pacifists begot them­selves as sons of God, who then discovered that love is the first and greatest command­ment? Jesus is Lord, and the Church is His one and only showcase, against which the children of God press their noses. 
How effective is the Church? Compared to Jesus, Star of the Sea, the Church is as faint as a candle, lighted as an alterna­tive to cursing the darkness. However, the Church keeps producing saints who reflect God's loveliness like mirrors. Berrigan himself comes on strong as a nag. scolding us like one whose soul has be­come Calvary. Meeting hostile bishops and superiors, he has suffered Gethsamane. Perhaps his bitterness left them uncom­fortable, as though he had handed them a crown of thorns. 
I used to imagine that the Church was like the magic kingdom in a fairy tale, where we go like a prince with his princess to live happily ever after. Now I can see that the Church is like an Olympic Stadium, where competitors are itching to become champs. 
silver rail which rests on 65,000 wood ties cut to scale. The landscaping consists of 
2, 000 pounds of plaster, molded and painted on top of 60 sheets of plywood at tabletop level. 

"There are probably over 100 locomotives here and several hundred railroad cars," he esti­mated. 
He won't talk about the dollar investment in his hobby. "That's a nuisance detail," he said. 
Each train on the Rolling Hills Railroad is an exact reproduction of an original ­down to its number and paint scheme. Diesel, electric and steam, they are the trains that operated the nation's railroads between the 1920s and 1970s. 

A library of railroading books We pass it on the way to the Lonely God's house, where the lame enter first. and all the losers are winners, according to God's own rules. 
The terrible stories in Ber­rigan's book should have made me weep with shame for my Church. Instead, I was moved by the example of Berrigan as a victim continuing to hang in there with Christ. The grace Berrigan survives on isn't cheap. The Church that sup­plies this kind of grace to a Jesuit, to help him survive being shoved around by his bosses, isn't in danger of going out of business. 
Holocausts traditionally are hosted by bullies treating their guests to starvation and ice water-enemas. Who would have guessed that clerics in a state of grace would use forsaken country rectories as ad hoc penal colonies to which pro­testing priests, sentenced to Siberia, are exiled? These are the latter-day martyrs whose sweat and tears are the seed of the Church. 
When Dan Berrigan enters heaven, perhaps Spellman will credit him with supplying the cross the old man needed to save his soul. Politics, they say, makes strange bedfellows, and the politics of salvation are even more bizarre. Didn't Sonya, the prostitute, lead Ras­kolinkov, the murderer, to the feet of Christ? The former shepherd of Madison Avenue, blessing bombs for the Presi­dent, inspired Berrigan to com­mit the sins against the gov­ernment for which he was thrown in jail, like Paul and Silas. 
Nothing is surprising in that mysterious meshing of des­tinies that form the Mystical Body of Christ's Church, for the sake of which the Lord Jesus died. Whatever the human 
shortcomings that left it flawed and interesting. Jesus has promised that the gates of hell will not prevail against it. 
on one wall is where Cherrnay does his research. 
While it's taken 17 years to develop this train layout Cher­rnay admits he didn't do it alone. 
At least once a week. model train enthusiasts and friends who have helped build and maintain this massive display spend an evening here. 
"Some like to paint the trains, some like to run them, others like the electrical part, making repairs or working on the switches or landscape," he explained. "Some just like to watch." 
Neither Cherrnay's wife nor three grown children share his love for trains. 
"My children prefer horses," he said. "They like the flesh horse; I prefer the iron horse." 


~-----~--­ 
nt j"tvfust-see movies • A CLOCKWORK ORANGE FrVSat Engineering Auditorium 8 and 10 p.m. Based on Anthony Burgess' novel this film paints a frightening picture of the near-future. It stars Malcolm McDowell and Patrick Magee as members of a ruthlessly violent gang. The film deals with free will and punishment. It should be warned that this is not an easy film to watch. It was nominated for a best picture Academy Award, as well as, best director for Stanley Kubrick. Color, USA, 137 minutes.  Local Friday at 8:15p.m. in the campus auditorium at the Indiana University at South Bend, the Southhold Sym­phonic Wind Band will be performing. Call 237-4278 for more information. "Singin' in the Rain" will be presented by the Broadway Theatre League. Perfor- At 3 p.m. on Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion the Notre Dame Men's team will compete against Marquette. On Saturday the Notre Dame Men's Basketball team will take on Marquette at 2 p.m. in the JACC. The St. Mary's Dance Depart- page 10·11 SACRED HEART SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) Fr. Daniel Jenky 9 a.m. Fr. Frank Cafarelli 10:30 a.m. Fr. Daniel Jenky 12:15 p.m. Fr. Thomas Gaughan 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady Chapel  
5: 
15 p.m. Monday thr Friday 



Christopher Reeve, Kathleen Turner, and Burt Reynolds make up the romantic triangle found In the new comedy, "Switching Channels." 
[¥.ideo-Re:view--1
Local Theater Guide 
J ohn Sayle's box office success (Veston "Matewan"(I987) is the true Video, rated R. I 04 minutes,
0000000000000000000 
story of a fierce and bloody $89.98). struggle in the hills of West 
READY Ill CINEMAS 420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 683-1112 "BATTERIES NOT INCLUDED" "SHOOT TO KILL" "THREE MEN AND A BABY" "MISSING IN ACTION Ill" FORUM CINEMAS North Village Mall 277-1522 "AND GOD CREATED WOMAN" "COP" "THE LAST EMPEROR"  TOWN AND COUNTRY 2340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 "SHE'S HAVING A BABY" "THREE MEN AND A BABY" "MOONSTRUCK".  Virginia in the 1920's as strik­ing coal miner~. fighting in­tolerable working conditions,UNIVERSITY PARK WEST were pitted against scabs and union-breaking thugs. Ac-University Park Mall claimed as a masterpiece of277-0441 social-awareness filmmaking (Lorimar Home Video, rated PG-13, 130.minutes, $79.95)."SHOOT TO KILL" "The Squeeze"(1987) is the"GOOD MORNING VIETNAM" rather boring tale of a down­"MOVING" on-his-luck artist (Michael Keaton) and the aspiring-to-be­detective bill collector (Rae Dawn Chong) who chases him down for delinquent alimony payments; the pair get involvedUNIVERSITY PARK EAST in a murder and an incredible game show hoax in this6424 Grape Rd decidedly unfunny comedy that277-7336 bombed at the box office (HBO Video, rated PG-13, 102 minutes, $89.95)."THE SERPENT "Hamburger Hill"(1987) is aAND THE RAINBOW" recreation of a rather infamous"IRONWEED" Vietnam War battle which took"ACTION JACKSON" place in 1969 when 600 Ameri­"FRANTIC" can G.l.s suffered a 70 percent"SWITCHING CHANNELS" casualty rate against North Viet­"BROADCAST NEWS" namese soldiers fighting over a"FATAL ATTRACTION" mudcovered mound of earth; this depressing outing was released after "Platoon", but couldn't cash in on that film's•  "Howling 111"(1987) is the ~ccond sequel to the successful saga of modern day werewolves set loose in the big city (Vista Home Video, 94 minutes, $79.95). Miscellaneous: If you're an aviation buff, then "Hoover" may be your cup of tea; it's the true-life story of super-test pilot Robert A. 'Bob' Hoover, profil­lng his exploits in the early days ofjet aircraft and inter­mingling clips of test night films and stunts he still per­forms at air-shows and races (Shyfire Presents, 98 minutes, $59.95: 800-852-2330 for more Information). "Sharks: The True Story" explores the mystery surrounding the dead­liest predator in the sea--the great white shark (Veston Video, 60 minutes, $29.98). "Start Up With Jane Fonda" is a special limited edition exer­else routine which falls some­where in between a warmup and a full workout. designed for those who want a light ex­ercise regimen to help tone up arms, legs, hips, buttocks, and stomach. (Lorimar Home Video, 25 minutes, $19.95).  
SCOTTSDALE CINEMAS I 153 Scottsdale Mall 291-4583 "A NIGHT IN THE LIFE OF JIMMY REARDON" "COP"  
100 CENTER CINEMA 100 Center St. 259-0414 "FULL METAL JACKET" "SATISFACTION"  

TRUE STORIES Fri Annenberg Auditorium 7:30 and 9:30p.m. 

Louis Fyne (John Goodman) Is the hero of this story which takes the audience on a tour of "Virgil, Texas". A humorous film which deals with American self-satisfaction during Virgil's "Celebration of Speclalness," and while Fyne looks for a spouse on television. Color, USA. 89 minutes. 
CELINE AND JULIE GO BOATING Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 

An interesting fllm directed by Jacques Rivette which mixes Hitchcock, the Arabian Nights, and Alice in Wonderland to name a few. It comments on fantasy, childhood, and even filmmaking. A Gothic movie that is set in a haunted house, it stars Juliet Berta and Dominique Labourler in the lead roles. Color, France, 193 minutes. 
SWITCHING CHANNELS 

Filled with constant back and forth bickering between the charac­
ters, this film is a throwback to those of the 1930's and 1940's 
particularly "His Girl Friday." Kathleen Turner and Burt Reynolds 
are seen as modern versions of Rosalind Russell and Cary Grant, 
only instead of working in newspaper journalism, they are TV journalists. Providing comic relief and competition is Christopher 
Reeve in this romantic comedy. 
Arlo Pear (Richard Pryor) has just found the perfect job, unfortun­ately it means that he must trek himself, his wife, their three kids, and all their furniture all the way to Idaho from New Jersey. Known as "Operation Idaho" it details the adventures of moving and escaping bothersome neighbors. Beverly Todd and Randy Quaid also star in this new comedy from director, Alan Metter. 
mances are Friday and Sat­urday at 8 p.m., and will be in the Morris Civic Auditorium. For ticket infor­matlon, call 284-9198. 
Sports Promotions presents 
the Michiana Sport. Travel and Boat Show at the Cen­
tury Center on Friday, Satur­day, and Sunday. Exhibits include fishing. boating. camping. and lodging infor­mation in both the U.S. and Canada. Call 291-0425 for more information. 
The Michiana Area Com­posers will be having a recital on Sunday at 8:15 
p.m. in Indiana University at South Bend's Northside Hall. For more information, call 237-4278. 
-
ment presents "To Dance" with lndi Dieckgrafe in thF Regina Hall Dance Studio. The performances run through March 4 to March 8 and begin at 8:10p.m. Call 284-4632 for ticket informa­tion. 
On Sunday, March 6 the 
Notre Dame JACC will host 
the Northern Indiana Gun 
Club Show. For ticket lnfor­
mation, call 239-7356. 
Sunday, March 6 is the opening of the Photographs by David Hackney exhibit at the Snite Museum of Art. A free guided tour will begin at 2 p.m. It is free and open to the public. Call 239-5466 for exhibit formation. 
. ,... 

WEEKDAY MAIN CHURCH SCHEDULE 
11:30 a.m. Monday thr Friday 
-
SACRED HEART CONFES­SION SCHEDULE 
11:15 a.m. Monday thr Sat­urday 5 p.m. Monday thr Friday 7 p.m. Monday thr Thursday 
SAINT MARY"S SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
10:30 a.m. Church of Loretto 
4:30 p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.rr11 Holy Cross Chapel 10 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers-Church of 
~-------.F.rid·a~y···M·a-rc•h•4···1-98.8.................................................................................................pa•g•e..12• 
1 tt1roug11 FrtclaJ. 11le 0.....s.lnt Milly's office, located on the third floor of 
~ Class1·f·1eds :~~=~~-===1~m.~.f.·4~== 
..._..CollgeCent•. accepts a-Hieda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttKough FrtclaJ. Delldllne for next~ claaslfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaslfleda must be ~. ei~ In peBon or by mall. The ch..ge Is 10 cents per five ce..ctera per dlly. 
Top 1 0 reasons why The Whip should 
HAVE A FRIEND NEEDING A RIDE TO be banned from Hockey Games 1 0) Patti Kase, Sometimes you think you're
NOTICES 

NEED RIDE TO ANOOR FROM OK­
N.D. FROM PmSBURGH APRIL 15 silence is bliss 9) He's distracting the really cool, when you're really just a fool.
LAHOMA.WILL HELP WGAS AND 
WEEKEND? FRIEND DRIVING UP FOR players with his God given talents B) II CONVENTION Sometimes you think you're really smart, 
MOCK DELEGATE DRIVE BRAD4133 

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; SR. FORMAL AND WOULD LIKE we wanted to hear thai type of music DEADLINE HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO when you're really just a tart. Sometimes 2n-1051 DAY. RIDERS. CALL DREW 3666. we'd pay for it 7) for his own good before MONDAY MARCH 7. APPLICATION you think you're really cute, when you're
NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES· MAY BE PICKED UP AND RETURNED
drastic measures are taken 6) we don't really just a brute. But today is your
SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIIII! (OR
TYPING AVAILABLE To girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, like to watch hockey in stereo 5) we don't TO THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OF-birthday, and it's the "Big 2-1." So 
ANY WHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY) 
287-4082 I want ill Please call Missy at 271-0868. want another fight song 4) what he hears FICES BY MONDAYIII ••• whatever you are, Let's go out and have 
PLEASE CALL CAROL at 271-(1868.
Leave message wHh roommate. on his headphones is not what he's Fun!!! playing 3) we shouldn't be subject to such 
GET INTO SHAPE !I TRAIN EARLY!! "DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY 
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING WANTED: BLOOD PLASMA DONERS. terror 2) the band should play instead 1) HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BOB BROWN!!! 
GOAT IS?"

NO ONE WANTS TO HEAR HIS MI­We'll have to celebrate in Colorado--othe CHAEL JACKSON STUFF DURING AN whole week! I can't wait! Love ya, Malis 272-8827 Help save e lila and earn extra cash IT'S COMINGII GET READY NO!! 
at the same time. N-and old donora 
who have not given within 30-daya will ACTION PACKED SPORTING EVENT !I! Two people need a ride to Columbus

BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND .. NAN for UMOC 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2n-be paid $12, cash after donating Hyou E ENGINEERS' WEEK 198J NAN for UMOC 

Ohio for spring break. Money is almost BEACH no object. Please call 4205 or 2921 . 
7406 brtng In this ad. Coma to Amelcan 

MARCH 21 -25 NAN for UMOC 
Plasma on Tuesday, Wednesday, 

HOTEL Thanks.
Get ready for Spring Break by selling Frtday or Saturday. 515 Llncolnway REGATTA IS COMMING ... 
"It's gonna gel ugly."
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL
unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan­West, South Bend, 234-8010. REGATTA IS COMING ... 
(Well, UGLIER!) dora's Books BOB Howard (1 block off 
YOUR OFFICIAL N.D. HOTEL FOR "CONGRATULATIONSI!II" 
SPRING BREAK '88. The HOTSPOT of Rachel is 19 years old!
ND Ave). Open 7 days' week 10-5:30. GOING TO D.C. FOR BREAK???? We REGATTA IS COMING .. . 
Laud. Beach. Only $14Gjlers. (4toom) We love you!
want to share rides with you I Beth needs REGATTA IS COMING .. . SALTV DOGs·····sALTV
for 8 days, 7 nights of fun, sun & surf. ...............................-;;-............................... Love! Julie, Ann, & Sara
Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the a ride there, Amy needs back. DOGS""""" SAL TV
one DOGS"..""SALTV
Call 1-800-ENJOY-US.
near vicinity for SPRING BREAKIII Can PLEASE call Beth 2851 or Amy 4525 DOGs••••• WE REGRET TO AN­

Nancy IS THERE ANYONE ELSE ON THISleave any day. Will share expenses. 
NOUNCE THAT THE SALTY DOGS
BEACH Nine CAMPUS WHO CAN PLAY BASKET­
Please call Missy 271-0868 I need a ride to New Jersey( or surround­ARE DYING FROM A DISEASE
HOTEL BALL? SINCERELY, STANFORD HALL
ing area) for spring breakll If you can CALLED OMPHALORRHAGIA.
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTELgive me a lift call me at x1380, Mike. 
There's just something about you boy, PLEASE SEND ANY CARDS OR
YOUR OFFICIAL N.D. HOTEL FOR ADAM HIRSCHFELD GOOD LUCKFAST, QUALITY TYPING $1A'G. 258­That makes me sweat. FLOWERS TO DILLON HIGH,
SPRING BREAK '88. The HOTSPOT of TODAYII
4843 TWO LOVELY LADIES NEED RIDE TO HAPPY 21st McFLY! HEADQUARTERS RPPM 375.
Laud. Beach. Only $14Gjlers. (4toom) . 
-
S.JERSEY!PHILI AREA FOR SPRING --A mutual fan of John Updike
for 8 days, 7 nights of fun, sun & surf. True to Life, a lecture by Lawrence
BREAK. WILL CHIP IN FOR GAS AND BUSY FRIDAY AFTERNOON? Why not
Call 1-800-ENJOY -US. MADAME HEATHER, Weschler on the exhibition,
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL TOLLS. PLEASE CALL DENISE£2497 support Irish Hockey and tune into WVFI 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY! NOW THAT Photographs by David Hackney has
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. or BECKY £2545 640 am at 4:00 pm for the 1st round of
COED BICYCLE TOURS-COLORADO YOU ARE NO LONGER A TEENAGER been changed to 4 pm, March 9, An­
................................................................ the ACH playoffs as the FIGHTIN' IRISH 
ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­DOES THAT MEAN WE CAN RELIVE nenberg Aud., Snite Museum of Art. 
TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL-THE "LISBON WINDOW SCENE" EVEN 
take on Lake Forest. Jamey Rappis and RIDERS NEEDED FOR Steve Trepicciona will call all the action
MORE? I CAN HARDLY WAIT UNTIL I REAGAN T-SHIRTs••••••REAGAN T·
LOST/FOUND I 

YOUNGSTOWN, CLEVELAND, PIT­RIDE needed o Syracus&Central New via satellite from sunny Dearborn, MI.
SEE YOU AGAIN! LOVE ALWAYS AND SHIRTS'""'""REAGAN T­
TSBURGH AREA 3'1 1 TO :no. York area for Spring Break. Please call ···············-······ 
FOREVER, SHIRTs•••••••••• REAGAN T-SHIRTS
CALL MATT 271-0604 Gary at £1153. Interested in social service? Interested
PANDA ARE COMING!!! REAGAN T-SHIRTS
LOST POLO JEAN JACKET W'WALLET in fighting red tape? Interested in the ARE COMING!!!! LOOK FOR BADIN
IN POCKET. $25 REWARD PLEASE HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO NORTHERN WANT SOME CHEESE RATT human suffering in Chile? Then come TAKING ORDERS THIS WEEKEND!!!!
CALL PAUL ODLAND AT 1747 NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNES­N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL listen to James Mundell, director ol Choi­SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIIIIIII SHARE EXPENSES. CALL FRANK 1487 DAN THE MAN, good luck tonight. I'm Chol Foundation for Human Develop­
LOST-burgandy wallet,on :v-18, some­CALL CAROL at 27Hl868 ASAP. in your corner tonite & always!! LUV,Q. ment CSC, Monday, March 7 at 7:00PM. where between Steppan and the library. We know. If found please call Bob at 271-Q758. Desperately need ride to and from Soon everyone will know. MIMI PRECHTEL I'M DYING TO MEET WED. LUNCHFASTERS... Ever won­
MOCK CONVENTION DELEGATE AP­
Thanks. Dayton I LOVE YOU! YOU! DINNER SOMETIME? -DAVE dered where the money goes? Who it PICACTION DEADLINE EXTENDED 
March 3-6 £2177 helps? Here's your chance to find the APPLICATIONS WILL NOW BE AC­
LOST MY GOLD GUENE WATCH Call Cindy at 284-5448 answers. James Mundell, director of the CEPTED UNTIL MONDAY MARCH 7 
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LYONS AND .. AND DAN SHALL REIGN FOR EVER IRISH MUSIC IRISH MUSICIII Choi-Chol Foundation for Human Devel­
THEY CAN BE PICKED UP AND HAYES-HEALY. IT HAS A BLACK FACE AND EVER! HAPPY BIRTHDAY DAN JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS AT opment, will be speaking about issues 
DROPPED OFF IN THE STUDENT 
WITH A DIAMOND. REWARD GIVEN IF I need a ride for spring break to anywhere LIZZARAGA. MR. CHRISTIAN'S DILEMA ON involved in running a development GOVERNMENT OFFICES UNTIL MON­
RETURNED. EXTREME SENTIMEN­in the area of SOUTHERN ILLINOIS or PRAIRIE AVE NEAR BRUNO'S PIZZA agency in the third world. Choi-Chol an­DAY MOCK CONVENTION 88' BE A 
TAL VALUEII PLEASE CALL PATTY AT ST. LOUIS. Call Babs x3736. EVERY FRI AND SAT 8-12 nually receives lunch fast funds for its
LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357·1370. PART OF IT ••• 2807. work in Chile. All are invited to hear 
Ride Needed FROM Washington DC TO CHAMPNE cold so m I MUSIC soft so r James Mundell. Monday, March 7. 7:00
AAJAX LOST: GLASSES IN BROWN LEAT· South Bend at end of Break. (Approx Mar U TUB hoi I would LUV 2 SNOOKUMS PM in the CSC auditorium. 
NEED 10 TICKETS TO "AMADEUS"
HER CASE WITH VELCRO CLOSURE 20-21) Call Mike -288-6364 PS 2nts KEEP ME WARM PSS WE could 
NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. 
FOR ANY NIGHT! CALL 3874 Call Missy 271-0868.""""""""
AND BLACK GLOVES IN OR NEAR JUST talk TO MY AUSTRIAN PRINCESS, OH 
CUSHING LAST THURSDAY. CALL DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 TIXS KATHLEEN, THE THOUGHT OF YOU 
THE STONEHENGE ROMEOS!!! NEEDII
SCOTT AT 283-4798. FOR AMADEUS ...WILL PAY LOTS OF Forget the Pres. The Master Japesler LEAVES ME ENTRANCED-NWHAT $$$$IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL RIDE CLEVELAND, arrives tonight, and girls, you should see CAN I SAY? THOSE LATE NIGHTS AT COME PARTY WITH THE ROMEOS
A TO AKRON­Has anyone found a black Toshiba LAURIE X2913 THANKSIII it. THE OAK ROOM EXCITE ME SO.
CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 11 ON THE SENIOR BAR SATURDAY MARCH 5 
walkman? Its seems to have been taken ................................................................ PLEASE MY LITTLE TARTLET DON'T
OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING 
from my room a couple of weeks ago. If BREAKII CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON FIND THE LEPRECHAUN!!! HERE'S LEAVE ME OUT IN THE COLD. WUV MFi:·s:riir:.iFofio.MANtAiii.cii:rcf.i i-f!!t found, please return to Marilyn in 420 THE LAST CLUE, SO THIS IS YOUR LATE NIGHT ADMIRER
THURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP Lewis or call 3468. LAST CHANCE: THAT'S ALL, WE'RE ...............................................
CALL THERESA AT X4238.
FOR SALE 

THE STONEHENGE ROMEOS!!!
DONE, SO SEE THE LEPRECHAUN IN HAPPY BIRTHDAY KELLY BRADLEY! Lost: Last Semester. A blue lifeguard BILL HICKEY: ROOM 101. SAY "LUCK 0' THE IRISH" HAVE A SUPER DAY! WATCH OUT WHO ELSE COULD GET A DATE AND jacket with gold letters and trim. If you HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING Thanks for changing your plans lo have IF YOU GIVE HIM A GLANCE, FROM FOR THOSE "PUNK" NIGHTS! WE LIP FROM 2 DIFFERENT GUYS IN ONE 
have seen H, please contact John at ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING an IRISH dinner on Saturday in honor of 3:30-3:40, AND YOU'LL BE REWARDED LOVE YOU! US NIGHT? 
1620. P.S. It is part of my uniform. BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE ST. PArS WEEK '88. BY PRIZES WON. · 
TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE A PERFECT WAY TO KICK OFF ATTENTION! DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 TIXS FOUND: Brttlsh rail pauea In South WED. MARCH 9; RETURN M MARCH THE ST. PAT'S BALL IRISH LAD: YMA,ASSILEM,NIRE: FOR AMADEUS. .WILL PAY LOTS Dining Hall. Come by the dining hall 21. SPECIAL PRICE $180 OR NEGOTI­THANKS FOR THE ROSEll WANT TO DOES THIS HELP? $$$$$ IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE 
to claim. ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 STOP BY BEFORE THE BALL? HOW ABOUT AICIRT? CALL LAURIE X2913 THANKSIII Coke
AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION WE'RE SERVING GREEN DRINKS. LOVE,JANE & DARTHY Lost, a black, herringbone overcoat at JUST A LITTLE BETTER. SEE YOU AT THE PEP RALLY FOR ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE The Commons. It had a checkbook with Coke THE MARQUETTE GAME ... BLUE, ANDY BRAUN IS AS UGLY AS my name on it in the breast pocket and FOR SALE:npont. Grand IRISH EYES KELLY A COW THAT GOES MOO! VOTE keys in another. If you picked it up on Prix.p&jlb,new parts,85K mi.$600 offer, Coke A.K.A. KAREN BRAUN FOR UMOC!!!! Tuesday night, I'd appreciate a call. You 287-3876. NO AND SMC WOMEN A.K.A. AEROBIC GODDESS can keep the coal but I desperately need 
Things We Won't Miss XIV: NO AND SMC WOMEN A.K.A. SKINNY MARIA LASSO those keys. Call at, 271-D683 Electra Weslone Bass ¢ Marshall Bass20 Viewpoint Articles On Alcohol, Discrimi­NO AND SMC WOMEN TAKE IT EASY ON YOUR B·DAYI HAPPY B·DAY !1111 YOU'VE HIT THE 
nation, etc. EAT SOME CAKE! BIG £19! LIVE IT UP THIS WEEKEND! LOSTI LOSTII LOST II THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY LOVE, YOU KNOW WHOS, AGAIN FROM ONE EX-FALCON TO AN-
Amp. Together or separate. Marty 1106 

TOGOWILDI OTHER! LOVE, you never knew how much i really liked IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ASK YOUR ANDY 
I LOST MY FRIEND'S RADIO HEAD' 350 YAMAHA 7 4 BOOOM $500 233-1485 
SET ON WEDNESDAY,~­BEFORE 10 PM ASK 4 MARTIN 
WHERE? IN THE VARSITY you because i never even told you oh, SCOPE Fellow women: are you tired of being 

and i meant to TO THE ST. PAT'S BALLIII taken advantage of on the dance floor at TO THE BIGGEST FOOL OF ALL: WHO 
WEIGHTROOM IN THE ACC. PLEASE! The best gift for all N.D. fans in all ages. 

THE FT< ARE YOUUUU TOYOU KNOW, THE GUY YOU'VE BEEN SYR's and formals? II you want to stop
IF YOU The original N.D. Trivia Game. 4800 

CAAANSTANTL Y THINK WE'D FOR­PICKED rr UP, CALL ME TO RETURN questions and answers. Its facsinating 1 To girl with NEW YORK CITY tick­EYING FOREVER this injustice, sign up for a self-defense GET YOUR B-DAY? WHAAAT A ·?
et...Yes, I want il! Please call Missy at YOU SPOT HIM THE MINUTE seminar. Call Julie Hanson at £4598.
IT. IT WOULD BE GREATLY Only $12. Call 289-1586. After Bpm. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRAD!

271-0868. Leave message with room­HE CARRIES HIS TRAY INTO Confidentiality guaranteed. 
mate. THE DINING HALL AND TRY APPRECIATED BY ME AND MY 
THE_()THER FOOLS FRIEND. 1 md. trip to anywhere Continental US. 
NOT TO STARE THROUGHOUT CLUB DANKIS MATH 101 ASSIGNMENT £1: SOLVETHANKS, VIVIANNE 283-1382 Now until 4112. 233-3412. 
EDUCATIONAL TOUR TO THE SOVIET THE MEAL AND WANT CLUB DANKIS THE EQUATION: F(T) 
UNION -DESIGNED FOR STUDENTS TO SAY HI AS HE CLUB DANKIS J(T) e G""2
FOR SALE: Metal Office Desk & 

15 days starting May 29 -sign-ups due PASSES YOU ON HIS The club goes formal this weekend. ? ANSWER MAY BE OBTAINED ANY
FOUND: ONE SET OF CAR KEYS WITH Chair($45), Wooden Dresser($20) 2­

soon.. Informational meeting 4 :z,a and WAY TO THE CRACKLIN OAT TIME AFTER 10:00 PM TONIGHT!
LEATHER RING IN D8 PARKING LOT. Single Beds($15 each) Call Bill258-5760 

2'1 0 at 4:30 In G-69 library basement BRAN BUT THE WORDS JUST STICK! 
CALL 283-2824 TO CLAIM. 

(or call 1-862-3191) PICK UP THAT PHONE HELP ME GET HOME! SO MR. BEARBY I take it the Personals 
································································ TAKE YOUR SPRING DRESS OUT OF I desperately need to find a ride to Long war has begun. Keep in mind that I rep­THE MOREN TWINS ARE TWENTY­THE CLOSET Island or the NYC area for spring break. resent the Dungeon--with that devastat­ONE THE MOREN TWINS ARE AND GO FOR ITI 1 will split expenses, etc. and can leave ing mind power behind me, you haven't
FOR RENT I L-1_n_cK_ET_s__. TWENTY-ONE HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY YOUTH IN ASIA IS THE BAND TO any time. Please call if you are driving gal a chance ... 
& ANDREA HEAR in that area. Thanks. Jim (1215).
FLIGHT TO CHARLESTON SC FOR 

AND SOUTH DINING HALL IS THE LAURA & GRETCHEN:
RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In BREAK.CALL 1678 

DEAR AMY MOREN THE "9" WOULD PLACE TO BE I hope I.U. is ready
vintage c1yd bldg. Hdwd lira, tan, 

LIKE TO WISH YOU AND YOUR TOMORROW NITE AT 10! JOHN R. I'm still sorry about the incident for you wild Hoosier women
binds, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clsta, To girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, SISTER A VERY HAPPY 21ST TICKETS CAN BE BOUGHT AT THE in the hall at Fisher's SYR. You know I next year!l

bamt storaga,lndry. t-2 blk to Lk Shore I want ill Please call Missy at 271-DB68. 

BIRTHDAY LOVE TIM TIM KEV KENT DOOR. didn't mean it. FLIRT Nan
Dr bus, 2 blk to al train, Wrtglay. $850. Leave message with roommate. 

JIM TON SEAN MIKE DAV & DAV PS
Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871-3387 (NO '80) MIKE ARCHIBECK
THAT MEANS 9 SHOTS FOR BOTH OF Remember THE QUAD that was meant
NEED 4 MARQUETTE GA OR STUD. HAPPY 21st!
YOU To the cute girl with the light brown hair to be??ll Well, stick around for the year
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­CALL CHRIS X3389. Be sure you
end bash .......... 

BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288-Q95&255-don't celebrate 
AMY IS 21 AMY IS 21 AMY IS 21 AMY What color is that hair in 2 weeks? 3884 I NEED MU TIXS CALL MIKE X1597 on the 13th floor!
IS 21 AMY IS 21 AMY IS 21 AMY IS 21 HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOMMY TWO 
Love, the girls on 2.

AMY I BRIDGET'S IS WAITING TONE
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID I NEED MU TIXSI PLEASE CALL MIKE Bridget & Kristin
BRIDGET'S IS WAITING BRIDGET'S IS What do overcoats, John's I.D., a girl
288-0955 232-0550 WAITING friend, a physics grade, a real GPA and Dearest Sexy Feet, friends have in common? These are all A POEM FOR YOU

House for rent: safe area. 5 furnished NEED 1 MARQUETTE STUD TCKT. "Ray -equilateral for a week?"
HAPPY B-DAY AIM LOVE TIM things Brian Reilly needs for his 21 sl Only one more week to gobedrooms. 2 large living rooms 2 full CALL JULIE AT 4128. 
birthday!!! If you can't help him with any I hope the time doesn't go slowbaths. Eat-in kitchen. Private perking lot: 
HELPIIII NEED A RIDE TO DALLAS OR of these things just stop by 345 Alumni Until then I want you to know so she woke upsecurity lights. Outdoor basketball court. MY GORGEOUS SISTER IS COMING VICINITY OVER BREAK. WILL PAY$$$. tonight and wish MR. SUNSHINE a HAP­That I miss you very much so woke up from where she wasRoom for 5 students. Avilable: Fall1988. IN FOR MARQUETTE GAME WITH A PLEASE CALL GARY 4284. ppy 21St.lll!!lll Love, lying still$575.00 per month e utilities e deposit. FRIEND SHE DESPERATELY NEEDS 
Sexylegs
Call: Bruce: 234-3831 evenings and 2 TICKETS PLEASE CALL 2445 

The team to beat in the "88 Bookstore SEAN MCGRATH! WHERE WAS THE 
So Mo, when can we come up for NEWweekends. 
Tournament? THE WELL-HUNG HANG­2-7 PARTY ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT? 
HAMPSHIRE'S MOTORCYCLEFOR SALE: PLANE TICKET TO TAMPA 
ERS! YEAH! GO HANGERS! BOB DOLE IN '88 BOB DOLE IN '88 WEEKEND?
AND BACK. LEAVE 3'12, RETURN 3'19. 

ACHA PLAYOFFSIII BOB DOLE IN '88 BOB DOLE IN '88 BARGAIN PRICE-CALL DAN AT 239­
P.E. SPIRIT WEEK ACHA PLAYOFFSIII WON'T IT BE GREAT? First foremost...H's
and MAUREEN
5955.
WANTED 

P.E. SPIRIT WEEK The ACHA playoffs will be covered live 
ARGUE'S B-DAY!I You still have a lew days to get involved! by WVFI this weekend. Follow the Irish WORM IV: 40 North AMADEUS! If you have two tickets to GET PSYCHED FOR MONTE CARLOI hockey team on Sportsradio 64. HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY MAUREENIIICAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT­any show this weekend you don't want, 
HELPII I NEED RIDE TO WASH. D.C. LOVE USING APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT­please call David at 271-0715111 RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING 
OVER BREAKII
ING INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM­

Good Luck Anne-Marie Walker and Jeff SUN. LITTLE THEATRE, 7:00 WILL LEAVE WHEN EVER TOM 707 GRACE-YOU'RE
AND beingPLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS 
HAVE TWO AMADEUS TICKETS SAT­Heilert. You'll make great Jr. Class Offi­New officers, activities, speakers dls­WHERE EVER! 
SCOPED in VIRUSES and THEO...
OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP 

URDAY, WANT TO TRADE FOR SUN­cers! Luv, Amy cuued PLEASE CALL BRENNAN AT 2158 IF LOOK AROUND. K.
AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: DAY. CALL CHRIS, £1214 

please bring any RTL materials: for up­YOU CAN ASSIST CAMPUS PAINTERS 
coming project 

Need a ride to BUFFALO? Wed 9th or
2901 CENTRAL STREET I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MARQUETTEII ANDREA MOREN AND AMY MOREN Thurs 1Oth Call Jen 284-4381EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 CALL JUSTIN 288-8673. 
HAVE A VERY HAPPY 21st MONTE CARLO NIGHT 312-251-Q151 
BIRTHDAYIII Your Friend, Gary Laube. Give Portnoy a hug for me... he's such a "little kid" sometimes. MONTE CARLO NIGHT 
································································ MONTE CARLO NIGHT Things I'll miss even though I'll still be in 
the office: SENIORS ... Let's Go Out With A Bang 
JR's smiling face as he asks if I want toGOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR 
PERSONALS Vole Diebei-Fitzpatrick-McAIIister-Fitz Pasquerilla East take a story.SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd HELP!! Desperately need ride to Buffalo March 4, 1988 like a ride any day you're going. Shared OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER 6 LIQUOR, 
SOUTH PADRE II WE GOT7 BIJT NEED area for break. Share the usuals. Can expenses. Call Missy 271-()868 or leave CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 1355
3 MORE FOR CONDO, $115 FOR !"E leave Thursday afternoon. Todd 
$ "Lose ·it all" $ HAPPY 2oth BIRTHDAY JULIE message wtoommate. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WEEK,CALL DAN 1167 or 1310. 
MCCARTHY (SAT) II! -Luv ya, Molz 
Friday, March 4, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Sports Briefs 
The Sailing Club will be hosting a barbeque for all members tomorrow at noon at the boathouse. The boat­house will be opened up for the spring season this weekend and the boats will be brought out for club use. -The Ob­server 
The ACHA playoffs at Michigan-Dearborn can be heard live on WVFI this weekend. Sean Pieri and Steve Trepiccione call the play-by-play of the Notre Dame hockey team's games today at 4 p.m. and tomorrow at 7:30p.m. -The Observer 
Used cross country ski equipment is being offered for sale by non-varsity athletes at the golf shop this Sat­urday from 12-1 p.m. First come, first served for sets of boots, skis and poles at $25 per package. -The Observer 
NO men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss will hold a singles tennis clinic at 9:30 a.m. before the match with Ohio State at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The clinic is open to the public. -The Observer 
Gracevision, Notre Dame's only hall television sys­tem, will be filming this year's Bengal Bouts. Videotape orders can be placed at the door of Stepan Center each night of the fights. Tapes of each weight class, or of the championship night are available for $29.95 each. -The Observer 
The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip to the ACHA playoffs in Dearborn, Mich. The bus leaves today and returns Saturday after the game or Sunday morning. Cost is approximately $30 and accomodations are avail­able at the Hyatt Regency at $65 a room. -The Observer 
Duke mascot apologizes 
~2.~tedP...:' Buckwheat" 
DURHAM, N.C.-Duke Uni­versity's mascot has apologized to the Black Coaches Association for wearing a "Buckwheat" head­band in reference to guard David Rivers during the Blue Devils' game against Notre Dame. 
"All parties are satisfied with the responses," said Ray Martin, a member of the BCA and an assistant basketball co­ach at North Carolina State. "They have complied with our wishes with class and dignity. As far as we are concerned, the book is closed." 
The mascot, Jeffrey Wilkin­son, said he "never once thought somebody would mis­construe that and take offense. But you have to put yourself in everybody's shoes. I definitely have to be more careful about stuff like that." 
But he told the Durham Mor­ning Herald that the protest is "basically taking something that has nothing to do with anything and using me as a scapegoat." 
NBC's broadcast of the game in Durham on Feb. 7 showed Wilkinson wearing a Buck­wheat headband on the over­sized head of his Blue Devil cos­tume. 
Buckwheat is the name for the black character from the 1930s movie shorts "Our Gang," which later became "The Little Rascals." 
Eddie Murphy has used the character to spoof condescend­ing racial attitudes, and Jim Tobin, Duke's alternate mas­cot, said that was what he and Wilkinson had in mind when they made the Buckwheat headband. 
The mascot has worn head­bands on previous occasions, usually in reference to Duke's opponent. 
Tobin said Rivers was the ob­ject of their attention because of his hairstyle. Rivers ap­peared on the court early to 

joke 
shoot and shouted a familiar Buckwheat expression, "otay," he said. "He (Rivers) was laughing and playing to the crowd." 
"I was looking for something 
· that was humorous and pokes fun at the other team,'' Wilkin­son said. "I had no idea I was poking fun at a group. That was not my intention." The Buckwheat headband was meant as "a good-spirited joke," Tobin said. Rudy Washington, executive director of the coaches' group, sent a letter dated Feb. 16 to Duke President H. Keith H. Brodie. It said in part: "our as­sociation believes that there is no place in college athletics for this kind of racial slur, regard­less of how innocent or uninten­tional it may have been." He asked for an apology within 10 days or "we will, re­luctantly, move on with our plans." Washington, an assistant basketball coach at the Univer­
1-----------------------------------------------sity of Iowa, received apologies 
from Brodie, Wilkinson and Tom Butters, the Duke athletic director. 
Butters' letter on Feb. 18 was addressed to Brodie, and a copy sent to Washington. But­ters said the Buckwheat head­band was not meant as a racial slur, but "there simply is no place in this society, and cer­tainly not in this university, for such a display of ignorance." 
Butters wrote that the game behavior of the Blue Devil mas­cot had been placed under the supervision of Tom D' Armi, director of game operations. 
Brodie wrote an apology to Washington shortly after But­ters' letter, terming the mas­cot's action "untasteful and in­appropriate." 
Wilkinson's Feb. 29 apology to Washington was approved by the athletic department. In it he wrote, "I am truly sorry for any misunderstanding that has arisen which might shed negative light on Duke Univer­sity." 

Donl 
beafraid 

of the Dark: 
Rich, full-bodied taste 
that's Michelob smooth. 
lnl-packs 
@Antleusei·BUICh, Inc 5I LOUIS, Mo 


page 14 
writer to take a shot at you. He thinks it's cool for him to be a
Vitale 
hero and take a shot at you be­continued from page 20 cause you're up there a little think, in terms of all the bit at that level. I think that's 
unfair. Because I happen to beanalysts.
"Where I try to be different very opinionated, I happen to is try to entertain a little bit, be very vocal, I'm very candid too. I think that we're in an en­and I'm unique in that I'm not 
tertainment medium, that's your traditionalist on the what television is all about. sideline, I'm an easy target." Most people watching the tube On his success: 
at home, you take the average "I'm flattered and thrilled by person, they don't want to the attention. I'm a hot dog to really hear highly technical start with, and I love people. I stuff. Sometimes you can put don't want to hurt anyone. I 
them in what I call "Z-ville, just want to have a lot of fun. sleepy land" because they're It's been a great run. It's nine bored. I try to blend some of years now on NBC, and I'm on that plus some of the insights my second on ABC. I can't 
of the game with the game it­believe I could go out almost self. Once the game tips off the any day of the week and speak meat and potatoes is the game anywhere across the country. 
I can't believe what's happened 
itself." On the Sports Illustrated ar-to me. "I just wish my mother was
ticle: 

"Certainly guys are entitled living to see it because this is to their opinion. I certainly unbelievable. In 1971, I'm 
respect any writer to having teaching the sixth grade and in their opinion. It's always easier 1977, I'm coaching in the NBA. 
to sit and critique someone I've had an unbelievable life. than it is trying to do it. But All my life I've had to fight to what really disappointed me go to the next step. I really there was his criticism, really, think I represent that Ameri­
was so unfounded and for this can way that in America things 
reason--what really hurt me can happen. I wasn't great personally is the fact I just felt player. I wasn't a superstar he took shots at me in the areas when they open the door at the 
which are my super strengths, end of your pro career and they sharing all these tidbits. I get say come on in. I'm not knock­letters from fans saying, 'Dick ing it, I envy that. share with us .. .' For example, "But who's Dick Vitale? I'm 
I picked up some stuff today teaching the sixth grade. I'm from (Vanderbilt center) Will one of five million others. I Perdue that I never knew think it's sad that I get paid before that I'll share tonight. If phenomenal dollars to sit here I don't come to shoot arounds, and somebody's that's teach­I don't get that. Then he says, ing kids to be good people how 
well that's the self-promotion. to get ahead in life aren't payed That's absurd. 
as well. I think that's a crime 
"To me, like they'll say Dig­in a way. I think that we in the ger's got an ego at Notre Dame. entertainment world have to That's not ego, I call it pride. really, really thank God how 
He's a proud person. He's a lucky we are. I lost my eye as winner. He stands there with kid, and I had to battle that. pride. I have that same sense I've battled a lot of things, but of pride about myself. I care. I the one thing, whether it be a want people to say he has great critic or somebody else, than work ethics. I can sit in hotel today and watch some TV. I'm 
Friday, March 4, 1988 

The Observer 
can never be taken away from me is my enthusiasm and love and passion for what I do. I'll never allow that to happen as long as the good Lord gives me the physical health. 
"I get so thrilled to know that there I am sitting at a table and I'm going to get a a microphone to be the featured speaker at a banquet of a leading, and I'm saying to myself, 'If my buddies in Jersey could see me now.' The same guy they ran around with is standing here now addressing all these groups. It blows my mind. The bottom line is I love people. I love sharing. 
"The one thing about what I do, I'm 48 now, and the thing that's amazing about this is it keeps you like around 12. I as long as I've got basketball, I'll never get old." 
On travelling around the country: 
If you get into a steady pat­tern of going to places, you au­tomatically develop a little feel for it. I haven't been here that often, but I see the Golden 
Dome as I'm driving in. The first thing I said when I saw that Golden Dome was 'Man, The Observer1 Brian McDonald to be a kid, and they're recruit-Dick VItale and fellow ESPN commentator Tim Brando prepare for ing me to look at that. I'd do the red light to go on at the Notre Dame-Vanderbilt game. anything to play here.' To see. ~he Golden Dome was ~n excit-e....................... 

mg moment. I hope hke heck e•••••••••••••••• •• •• H S h . • 
that my girls, who are pretty ••.;•••••• ey pag etttle good tennis players, think ••. ••.•• E II t p
Notre Dame has got to be a ••• ••• XCe en OSe. school you consider. ••.: Happy 191 e "Certainly places like Duke •• e and North Carolina, I love • those places. I had a great time • 
on my first trip to Oklahoma. They had a whole group of stu-Moose, Buck, e dents with skullcaps. I like · 0 e 
Kansas. I basically like the. Mike, ave, • campus environment. e Sully, Steen, e 
"What I don't like is to go doe Leary, Ed, e a college game at a large, large e & e arena. It doesn't have the same e •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• e flair as coming to the campus e ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Drew e 
situation.'' 
here doing my work. I took a .---~------------------· 
shot at my work ethic. 

BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
"For example, it says in there, 'Why would J.R. Reid call Dick Vitale coach and tell him that he's not coming out?' Well, J.R. did it. I went to to AUTHORIZED DEALER 

practice, Dean Smith took me on the court. Why shouldn't I BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS share that with the public? SALES···SERVICE..·PARTS···ACCESSORIES 
"Ninety percent of the press • CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY' OPEN TUES 9AM -7PM has been fantastic. What I have 
• OPEN WED· SAT 9AM ·5:30PM 
to learn--and what's tough for 

Summer Storage Available Kryptonite Locks
a guy like myself because I never was on top of the moun­Parts & Service Available tain really--was what my 
Students $26.95 
bosses told me. They said, ROSELAND 277-8866 
with ad cut-out
'Dick, you've got to understand 

135 DIXIE WAYS.
something. You are now to a point where it's cool for a ••••••••••••••••••••••• 

RESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
CONSULTING WEEK MARCH 6-11, 1988 
An opportunity to have your last minute questions answered before you must declare your college program 
See the March Freshman DEAN's NEWSLETTER for scheduling details 
DON'T MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 
RE.SHMEN_FRESHMEN~_FRESHMEN 
Friday, March 4, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Stanford ''CiviI 
• 
Men's tennis
War'' 1n IH final 


By CHRIS PAULISON Sports Writer 
Stanford vs. Stanford. 
No, this is not a misprint. This year's men's Interhall basketball championship boasts what appears a seemingly contradictory scenario. 
With its victory over neigh­bor Keenan Wednesday eve­ning, Stanford A-2 earns the right to contest the Interhall basketball crown with an even closer neighbor, Stanford A-1. This family feud is scheduled for a 7:30 p.m. tipoff Sunday night in the ACC Pit. 
Stanford A-2 capitalized on its balanced scoring attack in holding off a late Keenan charge, and squeaked by with a one-point victory Wednesday. Junior forward Terry Maag led a Stanford frontcourt that was able to dominate the boards throughout the bout. 
Maag offers a feeling of con­fidence in discussing the up­coming opponent he knows so well. 
"We've scrimmaged Stan­ford A-1 throughout the regular season, and we match up pretty well with them," he said. "We kept score in six of those scrim­mages, and we've only lost once." 
Stanford A-1 has streaked through the winners' bracket with decisive victories in all of 
COMING SOON 
TOM STEVE TED SELLECK GUTIENBERG DANSON 
They changed her dJOpers and 
o;he changed thetr ltves, 

hl.lW,II)N(f'!rlllllf', • . ,,.,tt~ .CJIHNAA~1NI.Ii:SI~ ..... fll"''" :':;",,ll>fhl .lhfllf:,( I If'! f' !MMI~~IC'AhlJtl, •M • • t!I.JNA"':lNIMC'JV' ' .... ')llH' \lfVf(Nllf~illtlll· IIO()AN"'III'I H~!MENANDASABY" 
,,,.,..,.11!\111' jflltiFUA•"·~•I(PfiTIT . rOliN!SfRI!t,..U .,,, ~" .~.· .~'.MAN' TIOIIflO J«Jilt~TilvCOH1 LlUNA!IDNIMOY 
...,_,...._,_,.,..,. 
·~ 
··-. -.·­

Coming in April at St. Mary's College Carroll Hall 
Sophomores and Freshmen 

page 16 The Observer Friday, March 4, 1988 
JACC hosts NCAA 
wrestling 

By JOHN GREEN 
Sports Writer 
The Joyce ACC will be the home of the NCAA wrestling tournament's Western Regional tonight and Saturday. 
The Irish play host to nine teams and a total of nearly 90 wrestlers over the weekend. Wrestlers will each be vying for a spot among the elite 21 wrestlers who will advance to the NCAA Championships in Ames, Iowa, on March 17, 18 and 19. 
The favorites going into the tournament would have to be the fifth-ranked Panthers of Northern Iowa. A veteran lineup which includes four re­turning All-Americans makes the Panthers the team to beat. 
"Northern Iowa has a lot of maturity in a sport where maturity is very, very impor­tant," said Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann. "They have three guys who could win it all at the championships this year." 
Most other teams in the tournament have squads dominated by youth. Illinois State and Marquette, for exam­ple, have only two upperclas­smen between them. This fact should work to the advantage of the Irish. 
"For the first time since I've been here, I can say that we will be competitive," McCann said. "Based on our record, 
success against ranked oppo­
nents and the people in our 
,(J,tiltlll' J/JxK/tniJt'f\fl{flllllrnowt•nt'll"'m'fh lllllrrt. ft'W'D·q luuutrnL~ lunm'il':!.' f{yw1 otu'l ,.,Jtm' ... mu• tum• tu hi>ll' fiOII rmgllt '" lw• mJumwr/ 
==· 

regional 
region, I would say that we have a legitimate shot at six qualifiers. We have seen every­one except Northern Iowa and Drake in competition this year. We know what's out there." 
The Irish return three qualifiers from last year's NCAA tournament, 142-pound senior Ron Wisniewski and juniors Jerry Durso (134) and Chris Geneser (177). 
Other Notre Dame wrestlers who are hoping to earn their first shot at the national tour­ney include 118-pound sopho­more Andy Radenbaugh and freshmen Todd Layton and Mark Gerardi, wrestling at 150 and 158, respectively. 
After an easy 41-7 win over Marquette last week, McCann feels his team is on a roll. 
"It was a nice meet before regionals," said McCann. "The kids came away from it with a good feeling that should carry over into this weekend's regionals. We wrestled aggres­sively, and that's a good sign before a big tournament like this one. 
"The NCAAs are the big time, and we are definitely ready." 
First-round matchups get un­der way tonight at 6 and con­solation matches begin Satur­day at 10 a.m., followed by the semifinals at 11:30 a.m. and the finals at 2:30p.m. 

The Observer I Trey Raymond 

The Notre Dame wrestling team plays host to the weekend at the Joyce ACC. John Green previews 
NCAA tournament's Western 

Looking for a,..well paid, no experience $ neede~:,...~art..timejob? $ 
The Observer canisolve your problem. We are currently looking for committed, dependable, and diligent students to typeset once a week. Please contact Mark Ridgeway by March 11th 
for more information. · 
$ $ 

LIP SYNC CONTEST 
Saturday, March 5 
10:00 p.m. -:J at Theodore's 
~ 
20 hot acts going for a $200 Grand Prize!!! 
.lj 
Sponsored by SUB & Theodore's 

MYSTERY JUDGES! 
Regional this Notre Dame's chances at left. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Page Editor 
Application deadline: Friday, March 4 
For further information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 
Friday, March 4, 1988 

The Observer I Pat Kusek Senior captain Mike McNeill and the Notre Dame hockey team at­tempt to finish a successful season with an ACHA championship. Steve Megargee previews the tournament, which Is taking place In Dearborn, Mich., at right. 
Summer 

STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 
..________..... 

VERY CLOSE To CAMPUS
• 
• 
APPRO X 2 V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAy SUNDAy 


Master Ml·n·· Warehouses 
P.o. sox 100 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 

"BEST LJTTL ~-IN MICHIANA" 

The Observer page 17 
Lake Forest first up in semis 
Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
DEARBORN, Mich. -Notre Dame's hockey team is looking to end its best season ever by knocking off the only team that gave the Irish trouble all year. 
But if the Irish are to do just that by upsetting host Michigan-Dearborn in the American Collegiate Hockey Association championship, they first will have to defeat Lake Forest for the third time in a week. Notre Dame meets the Foresters at 4 p.m. today (WVFI AM-64), with the win­ner going to Saturday night's ACHA final. 
The Foresters, seeded third in the tournament, finished the season with a 4-7-1 conference record and a 12-11-1 overall mark. Lake Forest got better as the season progressed, win­ning six games in a row before getting swept by Notre Dame (7-3-2, 25-4-2) last weekend. 
"We can't look past Lake Forest," said first-year Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We beat them four times this season, but three of those games were close. We're probably a better team, but if we run into a hot goaltender that could be a tight game." 
Goaltending has been one of the Foresters' strong suits all year. Jeff Sandreuter has com­piled an .872 save percentage in his ·16 games at goalie, as 
seek ACHA title 
Lake Forest has allowed just less than four goals per game. Jeff Sather (23 goals, 26 as­sists) and Eric Van Acker (20, 
14) lead the Lake Forest scoring attack. 
If the Irish avoid being upset victims on Friday, they almost certainly will face UM­Dearborn in Saturday's final. The Wolves (10-1-1 conference record, 24-13-1 overall record) face the ACHA's cellar­dwelling Kent State Golden Flashes (0-10-2, 11-24-3) Friday night to earn a trip to the finals. 
Michigan-Dearborn won three of its four meetings with the Irish during the regular season, including a sweep at Dearborn two weeks ago that ended a 14-game Irish winning streak and clinched the ACHA regular-season title. 
"If we do get to play them, that will be a real defensive struggle," said Schafer. "The key for us is to be defensively minded. I think we're good for three to four goals, but we can't let them get five or six." 
Dearborn's goaltending killed Notre Dame's hopes of winning the ACHA regular­season title two weeks ago. Wolves goalie Mike Klavon made 37 of a possible 38 saves in a 3-1 victory on Feb. 19 to give the Wolves the regular-season crown. Klavon has an .898 save percentage in ACHA games this year. 
Notre Dame goalie Lance 
salvage the season," Phelps said. "This will be their last

Irish 
road game of the year, and I'm continued from page 20 sure their seniors as well as their young players will come 
playing for pride as they look in here with something to to the future. They have a 22-prove. More than anything, we year streak of playing in some have to be concerned with how postseason tourney that looks we play." to be coming to an end. In the first meeting in Janu­
"Marquette will be looking to ary, the Irish pounded the War-
l'iii:iiii:ii~;;::;;;::;;;::;;;::;aaa;:;;:::;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;iii:iiiiii:iiiiii:iiiiii:iiiiii:iiiiii:iijrl
Freshman 
Ski Trip Smile and say '88 ski sex. 
Watch out for 
those bumps. 
Happy Birthday 

NOW, FOR A LIMITED TIME! 
FREE 
TANNING SESSIONS WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! call us today! 
Stock up for Spring Break! 
~a_o.~ 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS/ ST. RD. 23//PHONE 272-7653 
Madson also has been ex­tremely effective this season with an .881 save percentage in all regular-season games. The Irish allowed just 3.4 goals per game, and the Wolves allowed only 3.0 goals a game in ACHA contests. 
The Wolves, last year's ACHA tournament champions, could have a slight advantage in offense this weekend. Dear­born has gotten over 50 points this season from Joe Burton (28 goals, 40 assists), Tim Osburn (31, 35), Ron Duda (31,23) and Mike Humitz (13, 41). Notre Dame will have to play without forwards Bruce Guay and Tim Kuehl. Guay has missed the last four series with an injured thigh, and Kuehl has been sidelined for the last two weekends with an injured knee. 
"The last time we played them, we had some untimely giveaways that resulted in goals," said Schafer. "Our feeling is that if they're going to score, they've got to work for them. They have a number of guys who can jump on any opportunity. 
"They (Dearborn) are one team that's provided for three of our four blemishes, and if we could beat them, this would make our season complete," continued Schafer. "It would be an appropriate ending to what already has been a good season." 
riors 62-44 at the MECCA. Mar­quette managed only 12 points in the first half and connected on 32 percent (16-of-50) of their field goals for the game. Rivers led the Irish attack with 17 points and Stevenson added 11. 
The Warriors are a relatively young team, with only two seniors in the starting lineup. Sophomore Tony Smith leads 
· Marquette, averaging 13.7
points per game. Freshman 
Trevor Powell averages 12 points and senior Pat Foley 
sc~~!ratth: ~~~~i1~i~. the Irish 
have only Hardin-Simmons and Dayton left before the NCAA tournament selections. By tourney time, Phelps hopes his squad will be in top form. 
"I still believe in this team," Phelps said. "We haven't given up. We can smell what's ahead for us." 
Swim 
continued from page 20 
meter diving and third in the final event of the evening, the 400 medley relay, to gain the top spot. Adam Hirschfeld led the Irish divers with a ninth place and the 400 medley team finished eighth. 
Steck said he knew the meet would be close at the top, but was somewhat surprised to see the Irish at the top of the leaderboard. 
"There's a night-and-day dif­ference," Steck said when com­paring the Irish squads of the past two seasons. "Tim has done a tremendous job here. We weren't even figuring Notre Dame to be any problem at all." 
"We believe we're headed in the right direction," Welsh said, "but we're not satisfied. We know we still have a way to go. This is still anybody's meet. We'll know a lot more Friday." 
~--­
page 18 
Defending champs, gutsy challengers 

trJ.ETE~KI~!I gaI~NJj,!l!t~the super 
Sports Writer welterweight title. Andy'Shakin' Baker takes on Ken 
Six returning champions look 'Sting' Scheve at junior mid­to hang on to their title belts dleweight. tonight as the final round of the Vance 'Pretty Boy' Becklund Bengal Bouts gets underway at fights Steve 'Slim' Riedl for the 
7: 30 in Stepan Center. middleweight crown, and at 
Very few surprises have been super middleweight, Gamache encountered on the road to the is challenged by Chris 'Murph' finals this year, as all six of last Murphy. At light heavyweight, year's returning champions Chris 'Boom-Boom' Balint have returned with relative faces Mike 'Hello Holmes' 
ease. Mike 'High' Noone, Tim Kelly and Bill 'The Annihilator' 'TH' Hartigan, Greg 'Skid' Angrick goes up against Kevin Rowe, John Uhll, Dan 'The 'Special K' Kramer in the Anchor Man' Gamache, and cruiserweight class. Kevin 'Vigilante' Duggan all At super cruiserweight, John will take the canvas to try to Showel challenges defending repeat. champion Rowe, and Uhll puts 
In the bantamweights, Joe his title on the line against 'Doomsday' Dieterle takes on Panos 'The Terminator' John 'All Man' Manfredy. At Tsicopoulos at heavyweight. featherweight, Eric 'Smilin' 
Feder goes up against Tim 'The The last fight on the card fea­Shephard' O'Loughlin. tures the super heavyweight 
Troy 'Slam' Duncan battles final between Dan 'The Man' Noone in the junior lightweight Quinn and Brian Shannon_ division, while in the 

attempting to defend their crowns_ Pete Sklko previews the punches at left. 
lightweights, Mike 'Candy Man' Canavan challenges Har­tigan. At junior welterweight, Tim 'T-Bone' Reardon faces Duggan and John 'Bull-Bull' Bastian squares of against Doug 'Boom-Boom' Biolchini in the welterweight class. 
Newcomer Mike 'The Ham­mer' Keegan will battle Paul 



SHRIMP THE WAY 
YOU LIKE IT. 

Your Choice 
...of entree includes our Salad Buffet and your choice of any one of our sides. Daily from 5 p.m., Sat. & Sun. from 4 p.m. 
Shrimp Stir Fry Almond Shrimp Blackened Shrimp Cajun Stuffed Shrimp Sweet & Sour Shrimp Shrimp Creole Fried Shrimp Shrimp De)onghe 
e~IJ~·~ 
WRA~ 
...e~ 


O
This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound® to 
the beach, the mountains or your hometown. 

___,;;.....For $49.50 each way, you and your friends 
:~h!h~ ~~~t GO GREYHOUND 
Eoch way based on round-trip purchase. go Greyhound. And leave the driving to us~ 

Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid coUege student l.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., Trailways Lines and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Fare is each way per person ~on round-trip purchase. Offer effective 2/15/88 througb 4/25/88. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. Greyhound also offers an unlimited mileage fare for $59.00 each way. Some restrictions apply. © 1988 Greyhound Lines, IDC. 
Friday, March 4, 1988 page 19
The Observer 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
Friday 
11:15 a.m. Department of Ecomonics Public Policy Workshop presents Tony Sindone, graduate student, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns, "The University andt>r Social Change, Faculty Experiences with Honor Codes," Room 124 Center for Social Concerns. 
3 p.m. Tennis vs. Marquette, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
6 p.m. Wrestling, NCAA Western Region, JACC Fieldhouse. 
6 p.m. Training Session for Volunteers for the Women's Care Center, Knights 
of Columbus Hall. 7 p.m. NOOMC Right to Life Meeting, Little Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:30 & 9:30p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "True Stories," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Saturday 
8 a.m. National Teachers Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 9 a.m. First Saturday Hour of Adoration, Corby Hall Chapel. 9 a.m. Training Session for Volunteers for the Women's Care Center, Knights of Columbus Hall. 
1 p.m. Tennis vs. Ohio State, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
2 p.m. Basketball vs. Marquette, JACC. 6 p.m. Wrestling, NCAA Western Region, JACC Fieldhouse. 
8 p.m. SMC Department of Music Concert, St. John's Men's Choir and SMC Women's Choir, Church of Loreto. 
Sunday 1 p.m. Training session for volunteers for the Women's Care Center, Knights of Columbus Hall. 2 p.m. Free guided tour of the David Hockney Exhibition, Snite Museum of Art. 2 p.m. Opening art exhibition, photographs by David Hockney, Snite Museum of Art. 3 p.m. Music Department Lecture, Alfred Glasser, Chicago Lyric Opera Com­pany, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 4 p.m. Spanish Liturgy, Farley Hall Chapel. 8 p.m. Music Department Concert, Notre Dame Choral and Chamber Orchestra, 
Sacred Heart Church.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Fish Burger  Baked Sole  
Vegetable Crepes  Fried Veggie Baskets  
Cheese & Vegetable Pizza  Cauliflower Marranca  
Stuffed Shells  Deli Bar  

Comics 
ACROSS 1 Bygone 5 Tex. shrine 
10 Nuisance 14 -breve 15 Gem weight 16 HRE name 17 Genuine 18 Retires 20 Answered 22 Digit 23 Switch words 24 Commits evil 25 Billiard shot 27 Ballots 29 Excoriate 32 Appear 33 Of the dawn 34 Afr. fox 38 Resin 39 Discolor 42 54 43 BPOE word 45 Appearance 46 Astound 48 Broncobusters 

•
50 Adder 
51 Mel of song © 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
53 Netting 


54 Guzzler 55 Corroded 10 US poet 57 Footwear 11 Moral nature 60 Get out of 12 Alan Ladd 
bed film 63 Fencing sword 13 Playthings 64 Margarine 19 Pate 65 Theatrical 21 Small map of 
production a kind 66 Imitator 26 Ocean 67 Semester 27 Glen 68 Breaks 28 Kind of exam 
suddenly 29 Eagle's nest 69 Northern 30 Blunder constellation 31 Showers 35 Punch-drunk 
DOWN 36 Magnitude 1 Young salmon 37 Always 2 To shelter 40 Current 3 Type of measuring 


comedy  devices  
4 Reckons up 5 Aliments  41 Shelter 44 Vessel: abbr.  52  Fish-eating  57  Porgy  
6 Put down 7 Aesthetic  47 Card game error  mammal 53 Constructs  58 Sly gaze 59 Antitoxins  
pursuit 8 Spar 9 Footstools  49 Oriental nurse 51 Transparent cloth  54 Used a firearm 56 First garden  61 Selleck or Cruise 62 A Gabor  

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Bill Watterson 
--~ 
Calvin and Hobbes 

IN i\-\E ~LI~\<. Or MH.'{E, ITS CAl'I\~. 11-\£. t\\JMt\1"{ 
rAP'tU lNGGG! 
\{£'5 lbS,CX)() 1-\ILES t>.'t-4~'{! 
""' 



8 & 10 pm Friday & Saturday 
$2.00 
r-------------­
.... 
r Sports
Friday, March 4, 1988 page 20 
ND playing for NCAAs; 
•

Warriors 1n it for pride 
By GREG GUFFEY be," Irish coach Digger Phelps Stevenson, Connor and even Sports Writer said. "We've got three games David are going to stay in a remaining and we can win 20 slump. I think David has been 
When Notre Dame and Mar­games if we win all three, and putting too much pressure on quette meet for the second time that's obviously our goal. It's himself to try to get things done Saturday, it will be a much important for us to have as when other players don't." more important contest for many people as possible Sophomore guard Joe both squads than the Jan. 9 playing well as we head into Fredrick has been one bright Irish victory in Milwaukee. the postseason." spot for the Irish as of late. He 
The Irish are looking for con­Even more disturbing to has averaged 12.5 points over sistency as the post-season Phelps was the inconsistent the last 10 games, and scored nears and the Warriors are performances by the Irish vet­a game-high 19 points against playing for pride. Tip-off is set erans in the loss to the Com­the Commodores. for 2 p.m. in the JACC. modores. David Rivers hit only The Warriors bring a 10-16 
Notre Dame is coming off a 7-of-18 field goals, Sean Connor mark into Saturday's game 75-66loss to Vanderbilt last Sat­managed only three points in after losing 72-58 to Creighton urday that snapped a five­11 minutes of action and start­Wednesday night. The once­game winning streak. That left ing forward Mark Stevenson dominant Warriors, who joined the Irish at 17-8 with only three was shut out in 19 minutes of the Midwestern Collegiate Con­games to play. action. ference this week, will be 
"We've got two weeks left to "We're due to explode," get ourselves where we want to Phelps said. "I can't believe see IRISH, page 17 
Irish fourth after first day 
By GREG GUFFEY the defending meet champion, and freshman Brian Rini took Sports Writer leads with 172 points. Western third. Both times were faster Kentucky is second at 160, fol­than the University record. 
Last year, the Irish men's lowed by Western Illinois in "Both Brian and Paul had swimming team tallied 170 third at 144. Action continues significant time drops," Welsh points in the Midwest Indepen­today and Saturday at Rolf's said. "Neither one is finished dent Invitational Champion­with trials at noon and finals at yet. Both have a long way to go ships and finished a distant 7 p.m. in their careers." ninth place. "We feel we get stronger as Jim Byrne took fifth in the 200 
Mter one day in this year's the meet goes on,'' Southwest individual medley. John event at Rolf's Aquatic Center, Missouri State coach Jack Koselka was fourth and Jim Notre Dame has 126 points, Steck said. "There are actually Dowd fifth in the 50 free. With good enough for fourth place. two meets going on. Our Byrne and Koselka establish­
"I thought we had a very number-one priority is to win ing University records, the solid first day," Irish coach our conference (America Mid­Irish still led after three events. Tim Welsh said. "We were Continent Universities Confer­Previously, the Irish had never faster than the last time we ence), which is a meet within led in the meet's history. rested and shaved for a meet the big meet." SW Missouri State took first in December. We're well on the The Irish jumped out to an and third places in the one-way to our highest point total." early lead as freshman Paul 
Southwest Missouri State, Godfrey won the 500 freestyle see SWIM, page 11 
Vitale's style puts him in basketball limelight 
Commentator loves his job 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN has been a source of contro­when I think about how lucky Sports Editor versy recently with a Sports Il­I've really been. It's a great lustrated article that was criti­game, I get paid handsomely. At noon on the day Notre cal of his style. It's amazing when you think Dame plays Vanderbilt, the Mter shooting around (he about how people in this world Commodores have a scheduled sinks nine-straight free throws work so hard. I think about my shoot around. They work on against fellow commentator father working in a factory, kil­their offenses, shoot free Tim Brando), Vitale gladly ling himself to make a living, throws and generally loosen up agrees to do an interview. and here I sit at courtside and before the game later that Throughout the half-hour con­get paid some pretty good dol­night. versation, Vitale was open, en­lars for talking about someth­
Also on the court is a balding thusiastic and even ing that's just a game. It's not man in a blue Adidas sweatsuit. philosophical. He was very war and surgery." He talks to Vanderbilt assistant honest about his feelings for the On his style: coaches, players and Head Co­Sports Illustrated article, as "If you've been around the ach C.M. Newton. Then he well as everything else. game, you get certain feels on takes to the hardwood. Rather than intrude, it's things that you think can con­
"It's Notre Dame and easier to let Vitale handle the tribute to a game. I try to make UCLA," he says. "Dick Vitale show. Coach? the game a little different from brings the ball up. He shoots, On how his love for the game most, and everybody has to be he's fouled. Come on, Brando, developed: themself. That's the bottom I'll shoot you for lunch." "Being a gym rat and a bas­line--I try to be myself. I think, 
Yes, it's the ultimate basket­ketball nut as a kid, always being a little unique, some­ball junkie, ESPN commen­chasing the dream like every­times you're open to a little bit tator Dick Vitale. Love him or one else. I was never a great more criticism. hate him, he's the hottest item player. I always felt that the in college hoops. Nike is quickest way to maybe being "The fans have been great to making T -shirts with his name, able to get involved in the game me. I can go across the nation, and Sports Illustrated's Curry was through coaching. I and the kids have just been Kirkpatrick is writing a book started on the high school level great. In airports and lobbies, on his life. Another writer said scholastically in New Jersey. I they're screaming out my that the two biggest things on went to the collegiate level and terms. "Am I a PTP?" I just cable TV are Dr. Ruth and Dick the pros, and getting into this. have a lot of fun with all that, Vitale. This has just been like heaven but basically I just try to add 
The Observer/ Brian McDonald Vitale, who coached at the for me. to the technical strategy. We Dick VItale, who has announced his way to the top of the college University of Detroit as well as "The things that have hap­all know X's and O's or we the Pistons, does countless pened for me career-wise have wouldn't be doing this, I don't 
basketball world, took some time at this past weekend's Notre 
games for both ESPN and ABC. just been mind-boggling. In
Dame-Vanderbilt game to answer a few questions. Dennis Corrigan 
His vocal and opinionated style fact, sometimes I thank God see VITALE, page 14
has the story at right. 








