
Gilbert's last breath 
Partly cloudy, windy and less humid Tuesday. High around 

IACCENT: Dorm of the week 
70. Clear and cooler Tuesday night. Low in the

IVIEWPOINT: Film: to see or not to see 

lower 50s. 


... 


Arrest made in
·~ 

Wrappe murder 
Associated Press Police said DeChirico -was out on parole since 1986 after 
NEW YORK -A crack­serving 13 1-2 years for addicted paroled killer has manslaughter. Since 1966, been arrested in the slaying of police said, he was arrested Judith Wrappe, a 1988 Notre nine other times on charges Dame graduate. that included robbery, drug ..... 
Wrappe was shot during a $27 possession, grand larceny and holdup one week after she ar­burglary. rived from Arkansas, police Prestia said investigators said. identified DeChirico through 
"He is a local crack addict witnesses and street sources. who spends a lot of time on the The unemployed oil burner street," police deputy Inspec­maintenance worker also was tor Charles Prestia said of 37-charged with robbery, Prestia year-old Frank DeChirico. said. "We believe the robbery was DeChirico stole $27 in the for the purpose of getting mugging, police siad. Miss money for drugs." Wrappe's purse contained $1 
and other personal effects 

........, 
DeChirico was arrested Sat­when found by police. urday and charged with mur­"U makes me feel better that dering Judith Ann Wrappe, 24, he's off the street," said the a native of Little Rock, Ark., victim's mother, Sue Wrape, in and a first-year graduate stu­a telephone interview from dent at Pratt Institute. Little Rock. Her daughter 
spelled her surname differ­She had been in the city seven ently. days when she was mugged "I'm sure the police and the 

AP Photo 
about 1 a.m. Wednesday. judicial system will take care

students simile of the Olympic torch used to light the 
Police said she refused to give of it from here and we can

Olympic flame of the XXIV Olympiad. The demonstra­
up her purse and was shot in count on justice being done,"

tion came on the third day of Olympic competition. 
the chest. she said. 
Student Demonstrations 
Approximately 1 ,000 Korean students protest during anti-U.S., anti-government demonstrations at Kun­guk University in Seoul, Monday. The torch is the 


Burtchaell debates aborted fetus use Burtchaell 
Confusion surrounds vote 
Associated Press and return to it later. He
anticipates 

declined to say how he voted, SOUTH BEND -Reports ap­or whether he would support or 

more debate 

peared Monday that a National oppose using fetal tissue for re­Institutes of Health advisory search. committee supported federal Some medical researchers
By ASHOK RODRIGUES backing for medical research believe the transplantation of

News Staff 

using intentionally aborted fetal tissue might prove effec­Notre Dame theology profes­
human fetuses. tive in the treatment of several sor Father James BurtchaeU "The panel recommended diseases, including Parkin­
completed a three day confer­nothing," said the Rev. James son's syndrome and diabetes. ence in Washington D.C. on the Father James Burtchaell Burtchaell, a professor of the­Anti-abortion groups oppose 
use of fetuses from induced ology at the University of Notre the practice, and a temporary abortions for medical research ther you can (use aborted Dame and a council member. ban on federal funding of fetal this weekend. fetuses) without becoming en­At a news conference Friday, research was imposed last 
Burtchaell was appointed by meshed in moral complicity panel chairman Arlin Adams of April by Dr. Robert Windom, the director of the National In­with the abortion itself. I don't Philadelphia said the panel assistant secretary for health. stitutes of Health to be a part think you can," Burtchaell voted 19-0, with two absten­Health and Human Services 
of the 21-member panel that said. tions, to recommend federal Secretary Otis Bowen says he researched the scientific, ethi­Burtchaell has published backing for the research. will not take a position before cal, and legal issues involving several books on abortion, in­But Burtchaell said there NIH officials have reviewed the use of aborted fetuses. cluding "Rachel Weeping, and was "great confusion" among the issue. Bowen said the re­According to Burtchaell, the Other Essays on Abortion," the panel members over the search procedure is legal, al­panel was given 10 questions to winner of a Christopher Award vote, with some believing the though he personally opposes 
discuss regarding the practice. as one of the best books of 1982. vote was to close debate while abortion. However, as Burtchaell ob­others thought an amendment The panel recommendation served, "Not only did we not Burtchaell has been a mem­was being considered. "When reported Friday set up a possi­get through them, we didn't ber of several federal advisory it emerged that everybody was ble conflict with the White even reach a rough working panels in the past, reviewing voting on a different thing, the Ho~e. Presidential adviser draft on some of them. We just proposals for the National En­chairman said, 'Well, we'll an­Gary Bauer says he would push 
are far away from converging dowment for the Humanities. nul that vote,' " he said. for an executive order banning on a document ... Quite literal­t'The task on the others was Burtchaell called the re­federal involvement in such re­ly, we have not even discussed much more modest, (the fetus ported agreement on the issue search, but it was unclear whe­a majority of those questions." issue) is a major policy,'' noted a "serious misrepresentation," ther Reagan or other top ad­
"We're far from finished and Burtchaell. but declined to identify or spec­ministration officials would I'm told that we will be asked In addition, Burtchaell is ulate on the source of the mis­support a ban. 
to come back sometime be­member of the Notre Dame representation. Burtchaell said The reported recommenda­tween the lOth and 20th of Oc­faculty committee which con­he believed the panel was tion called for the development tober," continued Burtchaell. ducts reviews of research voting to set aside the matter, 
"I think the question is whe-involving human subjects. without a recommendation, see PANEL, page 5 



Brian McCarthy victorious 
By MIKE O'CONNELL News Staff 
The Student Senate run-off elections held Monday night saw Brian McCarthy defeat Jim McCarthy by a narrow margin of forty votes to be­come the new representa­tive for District Two. 
The votes tallied by John Wilson, President of the Om­budsman Society, gave Brian McCarthy a close vic­tory with 297 votes to Jim McCarthy's 257. 
The election was called after Mary Feliz, a junior from Breen-Phillips Hall, resigned from the Student Senate. 
"My immediate plans as Student Representative focus on the two new dorms, Knott and Siegfried," said McCarthy, "There are many new freshmen and transfer students who need to be made to feel welcome." 
McCarthy's plans include a big brother program for the new dorms and an out­door fitness course. McCarthy will represent St. Edwards, Zahm, Knott, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, Siegfried, and Farley. 

.. 
,. 

The percentage of American households in which the people who live together are related--by marriage or otherwise--has declined a fifth in the last 40 years, the Census Bureau said Monday. Families now constitute 71.5 percent of all households, down from 90.3 percent in 1948, according to new figures, which also showed the makeup of families continuing to change. The number of families without children at home exceeds the number of those with children at home by an even greater margin than· four years ago, when those without children edged ahead for the first time.-Associated Press 
Promises, promises, promises --but no action, the people complained to Mikhail Gorbachev. Perestroika, perestroika, perestroika, he answered, referring to his program to restructure the economy. The Soviet leader logged hundreds of miles last week in a major trip to check the pulse of the people. The pulse in eastern Siberia, he found, was rapid--from anger. He got an earful of com­plaints about everything from apartments without hot water to stores without meat. Gorbachev was hearing that. perhaps more than anything else Soviets. want a better place to live and more food on their tables.-Associated 
Press 
IN BRIEF 
A Memorial Mass for Judith Wrappe will be held at 5:15 this evening in the Lyons Hall Chapel. -The Obser­ver 
Observer Staff Members are invited to attend a brief lecture on the subject of Photojournalism in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center today at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Career Night, sponsored by the Finance Club, will be held from 7 to 10 p.m. in the Monogram Room. Represen­tatives from banking, consulting, and other industries will be present. All business majors are encouraged to attend. 
-The Observer 
Volunteers for the Homeless Club will have an organizational meeting at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Kelly McGoldrick at 283-2812 or Steve Raymond at 283-1729 for more information. -The Observer 
Baptism and Full Communion Sponsors are needed by Campus Ministry. Those interested should meet in the Badin Hall Chapel at 7 p.m. Confirmation Sponsors will meet at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
SMC Voter Registration begins in the Dining Hall today through Thursday. -The Observer 
NO Voter Registration will be held at the dining halls today through Thursday and from 2 to 4 p.m. at the O'Hara Desk in LaFortune. Students may register as residents of St. Joseph County. -The Observer 
The Chinese Moon Festival will be sponsored by the Graduate Student Union and the Chinese and Taiwanese Association on Friday, Sept. 23, from 7:30p.m. to 1 a.m. at Wilson commons. Tickets are available at the GSU office in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Juniors and others interested in summer internships should register for on-campus interviews at Career and Placement Services. First interview sign-ups are Wednes­day and Thursday. -The Observer 


Design EditOT . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . Kathy Huston Design A11iatant ........... Karen Newlove Layout Staff..................... Jeanette Ryan ...................................... Kathy Desmond Typesetters ... .. . . .. . . . .. ... .. . . .. . . . Tim Kiefer ...................................... Mark Ridgeway News Editor ....................... Sara Marley COPfl EditOT .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Cindy Broderick Sports Copy EditOT ............. Greg Guffey 
Viewpoint Copy EditOT ................... Julie .......................................... Scharfenberg Viewpoint Layout .................. Moira'Fox Accent Copy Editor............. Mike ResUe Accent Layout ................... Mike Conway Typists ................................. Will Zamer ........................................ Diana Bradley ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski SMC Day Editor ..... ....... ... Maura Reidy 
Tile Oblener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Asaociated Preu. All. reproduction rights are reserved. 



effect on administration 
Hello, I'm Michael Moran and I'd like to speak to the administration about ...(click) ... Hello? Hello? Is anyone there? 
The previous clip is fictional, but it describes the seemingly one-sided dialogue the students share with the administration. Sure, the Task­F6rces last year sought out student opinion, and it was repeatedly reported that student opinion was a major factor in the final decisions handed down this August. 
The fact is many students do not believe that student opinion had much to do with the deci­sions at all. The fact remains that the new policies implemented are not popular with the students. 
In the student media, there has been consi­derable student response to the new Alcohol Policy, but the students have not heard anyth­ing in response. In an editorial several weeks ago, The Observer directly expressed its dis­approval of the administration's lack of expla­nation of the rationale behind the new rules. As of this date, the administration has ignored that, and other, calls for a dialogue regarding the policy. 
In many of the students' eyes, the adminis­tration sought student opinion, then ignored it so they could hand down the stone tablet man­dates that they wanted from the beginning. Now the students are responding to the new policy, 
Mike Moran 
•

Photo Editor 
.!J~ 

but are not getting any response. 
Students see inconsistencies in the adminis­tration's policies. A dialogue needs to be taken up between the administration and the students to define more directly these inconsistencies, and search for ways of resolving them. One inconsistency is the censorship of liquor adver­tising in The Observer. A university is a place for the free expression of ideas, yet the admin­istration finds it acceptable to prohibit these ads. Do they really think that this will change attitudes about alcohol? Or is there a different motive behind this new policy? Nobody seems to know, and no one is telling the students. 
An inconsistency within this policy itself is that The Observer is allowed to advertise the Alumni-Senior Club (commonly known as Senior Bar), yet cannot do the same for its South Bend competitors. Why is this? We don't know, nobody is telling us. 
Another inconsistency is that students may not sponsor tailgaters, yft alumni can. There must be some fine print Ln the diploma! hope to recieve in May that states that I will then be mature enough to sponsor a tailgater. We don't know. Nobody is telling us. 
If they were really concerned with stepping in line with the Indiana State law like they say, wouldn't the criteria be whether you are twenty­one. 
The University tries to create an atmosphere that stimulates the social growth of the student. Despite the administration's implementing of programs that promote responsible drinking, their new policies are conducive to the opposite. They lead to fewer social events, i.e. SYRs, and will lead to larger off-campus parties, which leads to more drinking and driving. 
The worst part of the lack of dialogue from the administration is it makes students feel like they are beating on a brick wall. This will tend to discourage students from taking leadership roles on campus. If they feel that the adminis­tration will give them little freedom to act, why should students spend the many hours they do now, just to have the university interfere. 
Please, if anyone is home in the Administra­tion Building, respond to the student editorials and open a dialogue to continually review the policy. 



Tuesday, September 20, 1988 The Observer page 3 

J Cars towed from Goodwill 
AP Photo
Sea of Banners 
Pro-Solidarity banners are held aloft by participants in a workers' pilgrim­mage to the Jasna Gora monastery in southern Poland on Sunday. Among the slogans are "Bread of freedom--Solidarity" and "Can we? We can. Polish Perestroika." 

7here is a~~ meeting for all Accent Editors and Cop_y Editors tonight at7:00 in the Observer Office. 
Contact Bath Healy at23N303 if you are unable to anend. 




SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
•Soft..YJlate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 
Dally We,rr; +7.00 to -12.00 
Extindcd Wear: plano to -6.00 
•Tinted 

Contact Lenses 
Daily or 

Extended Wear 
2 different colora
Softm$te B or 
Dauseh & Lomb 
Eye exam required at time of purchase. No other diSC9.,unts, previous
orders or sale Items apply. Limited time ouer. 
"Our eyewear prices are 
the lowest tn fndtana, and 1111 E Ireland Road 
our eyecare gualtty ts 
in the Broadmoor Plaza
un.swpassed And that's a 
promCse .from the doctor.H 


291-4000 
p~ 
m~•rill 
Hours: Mon 10-6, Tues, Fri & Sat 9-6, 'flturs 9-8 Appointments available but not reqwred. Offices Indiana 

By COLLEEN CRONIN Senior Staff Reporter 
Many people who drove to Bridget McGuire's Filling Sta­tion last Thursday night had their cars towed away, due to illegal parking. 
These cars had been parked on or near the parking lot of Goodwill, just north of Bridget's. The sign in the Good­will parking lot explicitly states that any car other than those for Goodwill will be towed. 
The owner of City Towing 
Power outage due to fallen tree 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporter 
Electric power was lost throughout large sections of the Notre Dame campus yesterday after a fallen tree knocked out a feeder line from Indiana and Michigan Power, said Don Dedrick, director of the Physi­cal Plant. 
"A tree fell across a 4000 volt feeder line from I&M," said Director of Utilities John DeLee. "The spike from the power loss drained the 
generators,  and  four  feeder  
breakers."  
The  breakers  that  tripped  
were:  

•Breaker 10, serving the west side of campus; •Breakers 21 and 22, serving the Hesburgh Library, the Joyce ACC, and other buildings 
41 tornadoes sweep across Texas 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas ­Tornadoes spawned by Hur­ricane Gilbert caused more than $35 million damage in this inland southern Texas city, ap­parently worse than coastal cities that faced the main storm, officials said Monday. 
Two people were killed in the 41 tornadoes that leap-frogged across the state. Heavy rain swelled rivers in some areas, but no injuries were reported. 
Gov. Bill Clements was to said that this is not a new policy, and applies to cars parked in any privately owned parking lot around Bridget's. "It (the policy) is like it has been for every year. People park where they are not sup­posed to be parked." When asked u people had been warned about this before, he replied, "It's been like this for three years now." 
Rozel Gatmaitan, a Saint Mary's student, was among those to have her car towed Thursday night. "No one warned me at all. I came out 
on the east side of campus; and 
•Breaker 11, serving the Cen­ter for Continuing Education, part of Fitzpatrick Hall, and other buildings on the south side of campus. 
The areas hit by a power outage "depend on what breakers are set at the power­house," said DeLee. He added that the powerhouse staff tries to maximize the percentage of the Notre Dame generated power used, and buys the rest from I&M Power. 
The large voltage spike also shut down the number one boiler, said DeLee. "We have to wait until the boiler starts putting out steam again. Then we have to synchronize the 
generators with I&M again. 
"Mter we check everything 
viewing damage in Brownsville on the southern tip of Texas, which felt part of the hurricane's wind and waves. 
"I think all of us feel a sense of relief that we are blessed that there is no more damage in Texas and more particularly here in Cameron County than you have experienced," Cle­ments said after flying over waterfront areas at Brownsville. 
What little was left of the hur­ricane was moving across the Midwest toward Illinois, and thought my car was stolen." She saw a flatbed truck with her car, among others, on it. She was told that the only way she could recover her car was u she could pay the $50 fine immediately. Be­cause she was unable to pay at the time, she was told to come get her car Friday morning. 
Friday morning, when Gat­maitlin called about her car, her bill had risen to $65. When she actually came in to recover her car, the bill was at $75, and had been visibly changed, ac­cording to Gatmaitlin. 
ing much more in the way of trouble from Hurricane Gil­bert," said Laureen Chernow, spokeswoman for the state's Emergency Management Council in Austin. 
San Antonio Mayor Henry Cisneros toured tornado­ravaged areas Sunday, and said he wanted to extend his state of emergency declaration through Friday. 
The declaration will enable the city to try to seek assis­tance from the Small Business out. Then we can start reclos­ing the breakers," DeLee 
added. 
"The whole procedure was routine," Dedrick said. "Anytime we lose the I&M feed this scenario will follow." 
DeLee said the last time power was lost on campus was the first day of final exams last May. That time the I&M feed was also the problem. "Over the last five years we've lost the I&M feed about two times a year," said DeLee. 
These losses were normal, said DeLee, due to unforeseen accidents, and lightning. 
According to DeLee, Notre Dame generates about half its power requirements and buys the rest from I&M. 

tour the tornado-ravaged areas leaving heavy rain in its wake. Administration and other of San Antonio on Monday after "I don't think we are expect-federal agencies. 




LIP SYNC CONTEST 
October 8 
Interested in participating? 
Call 239-6940 

Ask for Maura
or 28 7 3 



The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1988
page 4 



Representative discusses family 
By DAVID JACOBSON Coats stresses that the gov­News Staff ernment cannot provide all the solutions to family problems. 
America is turning away "Rather, our proposals at­from materialistic needs, and tempt to utilize the government is returning to the traditional in helping empower individuals ideal of rearing children, and families to seek out and claims Indiana representative utilize time-tested methods of Dan Coats. He feels that the addressing the problems they government has a definite role face". to play in aiding this change. With families on the horizon 
Republican Coats says that for many college students, society has stopped stressing these changes in the public materialistic needs. "Families policies toward children be­inherently know that there are come extremely important is­timeless values even though sues. the country seems to have gone 
\\ $ l ..~ through a two decade binge Dan Coats' lecture at the tolerating everything from Hayes-Healy auditorium last
Pope exchanges gifts 

casual sex to cocaine." night was the second in a series 
Pope John Paul II Sunday rece1ves gifts of fruit and 
entitled "The Year of the Child 
a chalice and in return hands out gold medallions to Coats will be introducing in Family Policy". The pro­Mozambican women during his third and final Holy gram will emphasize the turn
legislature this week entitled 
Mass held at Machava Stadium in Maputo, Mozam-"The American Family Act I". toward children in public The act focuses on family sup­policies, and is sponsored by port and stability, better edu­the Hesburgh Program in cation, and aid for "at risk Public Service, and the AT&T

Poll finds Bush co1mpetent 
children". It also suggests the Distinguished Visiting adoption of better child car€, Scholars Series. The director of 
Associated Press poll, conducted the week afteJc percent said that of Dukakis. especially for lower class the Hesburgh program is the Labor Day campaign kick­Bush had somewhat less suc­families. David Leege. 
NEW YORK -Americans see off, said the outcome of the cess in his effort to paint Michael Dukakis as more com­election would have a majoJr Dukakis as more likely to raise passionate, George Bush as impact on the nation's future. taxes. A plurality, 45 percent, Attendance debated more competent, but aren't But they split, 45-45, on whetheJc said there wasn't likely to be convinced that either can­it would affect them personal­any difference between the two 
By COLLEEN CONLEY which could result in impeach­didate can accomplish most of ly. when it comes to raising taxes. 
News Staff ment and removal from office. 
his goals as president, a Media Bush led solidly among re­But in a measure that bodes The amendment will be
General-Associated Press poll spondents who said they well for an incumbent party, An amendment to the Consti­argued at next week's meeting. 
planned to vote and had made six in 10 said they were better
has found. tution of the Undergraduate Senate officers suggested
About half the 1,125 adults in a definite choice, partly be­off now than they were either 
Student Body was introduced proposing an additional the national survey saw both cause a greater share of four or eight years ago, and 55 last night at the Student Senate amendment detailing who shallmen as strong leaders. But con­Republicans said they had percent expected their family weekly meeting. decide what constitutes an un­siderably more said Bush, the decided. finances to improve in the next The amendment proposed warranted absence. 
vice president and Republican The poll's findings under­few years. that attendance by all mem­nominee, understands the scored Bush's success since the In some other ratings the two bers of the Student Senate be The Saint Mary's represen­problems a president faces and Republican National Conven­were about equal. Six in 10 said 
required at all meetings. If tative discussed the Sept. 20 is competent manage the tion in mid-August at portray­both offer a vision of where
to passed, three unwarranted or freshman elections and an­
government. ing himself as more competent, they want to lead the country two consecutive absences may nounced the upcoming voter Only 36 percent of those sur­an issue Dukakis had sought t() and five in 10 said both were become grounds for a manda­registration drive to be held veyed said Bush could ac­claim. strong leaders. 
tory review by the Senate, Thursday, Sept. 22. 
complish most of his goals as The two were close on other president, and just 31 percent scores, and more Americans said Dukakis, the Democratic saw Dukakis as someone wh() candidate, could achieve most cares about them. of his goals. Nearly half said Bush's control of the agend.a either would be stymied. The also was apparent. Fifty-tw() rest were not sure. percent said he had clear pos­
Seven in 10 to the itions on the issues, while 37 
lla;;, 8t~t~lpt ~er-r-tl 
Low. 
Trainer Kim. Trainer Patti. Trainer Hlcole. Trainer Trish. Trainer Shannon. Barbie. Ken Butthead. Red. Casper. Tank. Lance. GI-Ho. Spaz. & Yo-Yo 
:FOR LESS? 

~---------------------.-------------------­


10% off 
'


FREE 
[ TUE VA/lSITY SI/OP 

PAUL MITCHELL•

PRICES TO FIT EVERY BUDGET .PAOFESloiONAL r.ALON PHODUCTlo
Relaxing Shampoo 
I "WALKING DISTANCE FROM NOTRE DAME"
with 
MEN-WOMEN-CHILDREN WALK-INS WELCOME 
To Introduce you to


styled Haircut 277-0057 $8.00 ($10 value) these fine products
1639 EDISON ROAD HOURS -M·TH 8:00AM-7:30PM; FRI 8:00AM-6:00PM; SAT 8:00AM-5:00PM 

~----------------------------------------­

ISN'T IT TIM18: TO LOOK YOUR BEST 


Tuesday, September 20, 1988 The Observer page 5 




SECURITY BEAT More children are homeless 

' ~~, . ' ,,I\. ,....· 
,. '. ) ,l 
I ~-~\ · /.//.11 f ·.. ,..: ""'-....~t-t ..... /,/
' 

~***************************• 
......~·~~ ~~-~~ 
~ OOif'THivt.Uliii.OifiUD(WintUl'OIIIIWHODOl\ 


~ NOTREDAMEAPARTMENTS t 
~ COMPLETELV FURNISHED ~ 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC.
* 2 BEDROOM APTS ie iC 
: ~ ~

* RENT AS LOW AS iC 
AUTHORIZED DEALER
~ $11.00 A MON7B t 
BICYCLES * EXERCISERS * BMX HEADQUARTERS SALI!S--SI!RVICI!-PARTs--ACCEUORIES
* iC 
• 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY' OPEio. TUES 9AM-7PM 

• 
OPEN WED • SAT lAM • 5:30PM 


* iC 
~ OFFICE AT 820 NO AVE ~ 
Kryptonite Locks-studentsWinter Storage Available 


~ 234-6647 ..,.... 
$26.95 with ad cut outBikes Boxed 


~ CALL ANYTIME FOR APPT. AND INFO. ~ 
Mishawaka 277-8866. 
Roseland 
• 
259-4862 135 Dixie Way S. 
3835 Lincoln Way E.

* ****************************•iC 
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or Wfite, AIDS 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING.
+
Amertcan Red Cross ~::!'::: \\llshlngton. DC 20006 

~ 

Love 
continued from page 1 
of guidelines for the use of fetal

Patsy and tissue to avoid commercializa­tion. It called for consent from the mother, and if possible the
her dunes 
father, and delaying the obtain­ing of consent until after a deci­sion had been made on an abor­tion. 
Burtchaell said he had talked with several panel members who were also surprised by the reported recommendation. 
"(These) people, knowing the makeup of the panel, were naturally astounded to see that no one on that panel, according to the report, had dissented from a decision to go ahead with that research," he said. "It's a very controversial issue." 
SEPTEMBER 15 
5:20 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported that her hang tag was stolen from her vehicle while it wa.• parked in the A 15 Lot. The theft occurred sometime between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00p.m. 
II :50 p.m. Security issued a citation to a Granger, IN. resident for traveling 50mph in a posted 35mph lOne on Dougla.• Rd. 
SEPTEMBER 16 
I:47 a.m. Security issued a citation to an Ohio resident for traveling 51 mph in a posted 35mph lone on Dougla.• Rd. 
II :45 a.m. A Grace Hall resident reported that his car wa.• struck while parked in the D2 Lot sometime between II :30 p.m. on 9/11 and II :.lO a.m. on 9/16. Damage estimates 
are unknown. 
2:56 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported that his license plate was stolen from his vehicle while it wa.• parked in the D2 Lot. The theft occurred sometime between 2:00 p.m. on 9/15 and I:00 p.m. on 9/16. His loss is est. at $36. 
5:58 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported that his license plate wa.• stolen from his vehicle while it was parked in the D2 Lot. The incident occurred sometime between 6:00p.m. on 9/13 and 5:30p.m. on 9/16. 





Drop in SAT mean first in eight years 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Average SAT scores lost ground in 1988 for the first time in eight years, but minority students continued a decade-long pattern of impres­sive gains, the College Board reported Monday. 
Scores on the verbal section of the Scholastic Aptitude Test fell two points to an average 428, while the average on the math section was unchanged at 476, according to the board's annual report. 
Both portions of the multiple­choice exam taken each year by 1.1 million college-bound students are scored on a scale of 200-800, with a combined 1600 being perfect. 
10:20 p.m. Security issued a citaiion to a New York resident for traveling 50mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Rd. 
SEPTEMBER 17 
I 
:04 a.m. Security issued a citation to a Mishawaka resident for traveling 48 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Angela Blvd. 

I 
:30 a.m. Security issued a citation to a California resident for traveling 51 mph in a posted 35mph zone on Douglas Rd. 


11:25 a.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported that her license plate was stolen from her vehicle while parked in the D2 Lot. The incident occurred sometime between 9:00p.m. on 9/13 and 10:00 p.m. on 9/16. 
II :45 p.m. Security issued a citation to an Indiana resident for traveling 51 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Edison Rd. 
SEPTEMBER 18 
12:25 a.m. Security arrested a Michigan resident for driving under the influence of alcohol on Edison Rd. 
SEPTEMBER 19 
II :41 a.m. Security received a report of a larceny from the Student Body Office in La Fortune.The larceny occurred sometime between 6:00p.m. on 9/16 and 6:30a.m. on 9/19. 
The combined math-verbal average of 904 marked the first decline in eight years. The na­tional average hit a low of 890 in 1980, recovered a bit to 906 by 1985 and was unchanged un­til this year's slight decline. 
Minority students in the class of '88, especially blacks, posted the strongest gains. Verbal scores among blacks last year rose an average of two points to 353, and math scores rose seven points to 384--doubly im­
pressive since the number of black test-takers rose 39 per­cent in three years from 70,156 in 1985 to 97,483 last year, said the College Board's Research Director, Robert Cameron. 
Happy 21st 
Marty Ohorato! 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -At least 100,000 of America's children are homeless on any given night, the National Academy of Sciences estimated Monday. 
This statistic doesn't include those children who have run away from home or been kicked out by their parents. 
While male alcoholics and former mental patients still make up a large portion of the homeless, the fastest growing group of people with no place to live are children under 18, said the academy's Institute of Medicine. 
"The committee feels strongly that the growing phe­nomenon of homeless children is nothing short of a national disgrace that must be treated with the urgency that such a situation demands," said the report.. 

Orthodox Jews in Brooklyn, N.Y. hold funeral services 5,000 people turned out for the service in the heavily Sunday for six Torah scrolls that were burnt by van­Jewish Flatbush section. dals who broke into a synagogue. Approximately 
One recommendation aimed directly at helping children is the expansion of federal sup­port for enriched day care and Head Start programs, coupled with outreach efforts to make homeless parents aware of help available for their children. 
A recommendation for the homeless in general would be to permit the use of food stamps at restaurants so prepared meals will be avail­able to people who don't have ldtchens. 
The committee formed by the institute to do the study, which was ordered by 
"Those who stay in rural areas remain hidden until some event causes them to lose their housing, at which point they can be found living in, for example, cars, abandoned buildings, and woods," the report said. 
The study says the major causes of homelessness are: 
•A 
decrease in the number of housing units for low-income people --2.5 ~illion fewer than in 1980--while the number of people who can only afford such units has increased be­cause of skyrocketing housing costs. 

•A 
tightening of eligibility for public assistance programs as well as a decline in the value of such assistance. 

•Policies 
of state mental hospitals, general hospitals, rehabilitation facilities and some jails and prisons that have fewer people admitted and free some who were previ­ouslv held. 


-------~ 




Viewpoint
page 6 

Tuesday, September 20, 1988 

1P.O. Box Q 

Student justifies denial of movie 
Dear Editor: "' 

I remain unabashed by the Sept.l3 column by Mr. Victor J. Krebs. I readily admit that I have not seen "The Last Temptation of Christ" and yet I confi­dently assert that it is blasphemous and therefore ought not to be patronized. Not having seen the film, I make no claim about its craft except that, com­ing from Martin Scorsese, I feel sure that it contains some very fine work. Neither do I challenge his First Amend­ment right to make such a film. These things are not at issue. In this film the integrity of the God1nan Jesus Christ is demeaned and denied. Out of respect for the one who offered his life that we might be free, we should avoid this pic­ture. 
If I closed here I should fall justly prey to Mr. Kreb's charge of "prejudice." He writes, "Back at Notre Dame I have met with a strange mix­ture of attitudes: indifference to the whole thing on the part of some (always a source of concern to me), but also fear--based primarily on prejudice--on the part of others. The answer is usual­ly: I have been told it's blasphemous, so I don't want to see it." 
Here I must confess that I have ac­cepted the word of some strangers. Per­haps the reader will not judge me too harshly, though. These strangers are journalists for Newsweek, 'fime, The Village Voice, as well as Victor J. Krebs writing for The Observer. What I have accepted from them is not their edito­rial bent but some facts about the movie and its contents. I am trusting that what these authors say is in the movie is ac­tually in it. Thus I believe Victor J. Krebs that in the film Jesus tells Judas "that God told him 'the plan only little by little."' Allow me to concentrate on one such fact. 
Mr. Krebs says that "Christ is pic­tured as having carnal desires." Andrew Greeley would agree with this description. In response to the question "Could Jesus desire a woman?" he says, "The Christian must say that of course He might. .." In the movie Christ is portrayed as visually fantasiz­ing about sex relations with Mary Mag­dalene. 
The idea seems to be that since Christ 
was a man, he must have been subject 
to concupiscence. 

Doonesbury 
... AND 8USH'5 MESSAGB­OF-THE--PAY, l?tUV13Re/? IN FRONT OF THIS GOR­
GEOUS VISUAL, WAS,. 
"R&AD MY LJPS: 
TAX !3RMKS FO!<. ~-~o-~-7­
0I/..CO!rlmN!13S." 
/ 

Perhaps the meaning of concupis­cence is best explained by St. Paul's description of it in Romans as "a law of my members fighting against the law of my mind.'' This struggle is familiar to us. We have, all experienced the desire to do what we know we should not. We are truly imperfect vessels, subject to this unruliness of the pas­sions as a punishment for original sin. When our first parents fell, they lost for us the preternatural gift of integrity by means of which man's reason and will were in perfect harmony. 
What Scorsese andl Greeley either forget or deny is that even though Christ was fully huma:a, he was not just any man but was pel"fect man. Since he was free from any stain of sin he did not suffer the effects of original sin in his nature. He was fully and perfectly human without the lack of integrity, for, as the Scriptures say, he was "like us in all things but sin." If Christ had the "warring of the flesh," then he can no longer be seen as spotless but as stained by original sin. If Christ "was made lower than angels" in order to redeem us, it seems the height of in­gratitude and a weighty insult to portray him in our movie theatres as stained by original sin and thus lower even than unfallen man. 
Based on what we know without ex­periencing the movie first-hand, it seems best to avoid such an experience. 
Brian Kelly 
Off-campus 
Sept. 17, 1988 



St. Mary's deserves credit for concert 
Dear Editor: 
Saint Mary's students grabbed their 
Observers on Sept. 14 around noon, as 
they do every day, but conversations 
didn't center around the Michigan 
game or new SYR regulations this time. 
Instead students were furious. They 
were enraged by the George Winston 
story headline on the Accent page. 
The first line of thE! story reads: "In­
ternationally renowned pianist George 
Winston will perform tonight at 8:00 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium," with a headline that proclaims the event as "An ND First." Thi.s is all fine, but Saint Mary's deserves all the credit. I realize that many ev,ents sponsored by Notre Dame are indeed held at O'Laughlin Auditorium on many occa­sions, but this is one that is not.. 
Randy Brown and the staff of O'Laughlin Auditorium should receive total credit for Mr. Winston's appear­ance on Saint Mary's campus. He is one of the biggest names we, as students, have had the opportunity to see in quite a while on either of the campuses. I feel The Observer has deprived Saint Mary's of this excitement by crediting Notre Dame for this sold out perfor­
mance. 

"Winston Cometh" has yet to be dubbed "An ND first!" As a member of the smaller and often silenced of the two schools making up this most pres­tigious community, I feel Saint Mary's has often been the victim of such abuse. I trust that this will not be taken offen­sively by the students of Notre Dame. We are proud to share our facilities with you as you have been generous in doing with us. All we ask is that credit be given where credit is due. 
Maria Doti Off-campus 
Sept. 18, 1988 

Economic facts may be slanted 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to a Sept. 13 article by Business columnist Rich Coglianese entitled, "Let's talk eco­nomic facts concerning the 1988 elec­tion." 
Mr. Coglianese asks, and quickly answers, the frequently posed question, "Are you better off now than you were eight years ago?" His article is patently misleading and contributes to the myopic and illusory facade of eco­nomic success much touted in this, an election year. With partisanship aside, "Let's talk economic facts" as this writer challenges us to do. 
On Aug. 31, 1988, the United States Census Bureau reported that the proportion of white Americans living in poverty declined significantly during 1987. At first glance, therefore, it ap­pears Coglianese's conclusion is cor­rect. In that same report, however, the Census Bureau also noted that the proportion of black and Hispanic poor people increased. In short, the median incomes of white Americans increased in 1987 in terms of real dollars while those of black and Hispanic citizens declined. More precisely, the propor­tion of white Americans who were poor 
f01~6ET TH8 M/3SSA68! WHAT HAPPIJNfJI) TO TH/3 N/36A11VB SOrJND BrT/3S~ HOIA/ AR& W/3 
5UPPOSF3!? 70 I<&8P \ S{I)R/3 WITHOUT 7HE. DAY'S NE6­ATI'Ie SOUN{) 

Garry Trudeau 
:r WANT' 

MY N-TV! 
\ 

in 1987 was 10.5 percent, or 21.4 million, as against 11 percent, or 22.2 million in 1986, while the proportion of black Americans living in poverty in 1987 was 
33.1 percent or 9.68 million as against 
31.l percent or 8.98 million in 1986. Mr. ' Coglianese's answer is simply wrong. 
We must conclude that the writer either failed to do his homework before summarily concluding that "we are better off" or his definition of who we are fails to include many less fortunate Americans. I sincerely hope Mr. Coglianese's error proceeds from his failure to adequately research the facts rather than from his belief that prosperity is measured only by a lim­ited universe of privileged white Americans. 
Gregory L. Evans Off-campus 
Sept. 14, 1988 


GSU urges student input about film 
Dear Editor: 

The Graduate Student Union has 
recently cosponsored with the Student 
Union Board a trip to see "The Last 
Temptation of Christ" and an open dis­
cussion with participants from various 
disciplines. There has been much en­
thusiasm and support for this activity 
from many quarters. We have been 
made aware, however, that there are 
graduate students who do not think the 
GSU should cosponsor such an activity. 
In the past, disagreement with the ac­
tivities of the GSU has been answered 
with a withdrawal of the $10 voluntary 
fee from the GSU funds. 

The GSU is a representative organi­
zation, and as such it should act in ac­
cordance with the majority of its con­
stituency. If the GSU does not fulfill 
that role, it is our responsibility to make 
sure that it does. Withdrawing your vo­
luntary fee from the GSU funds hurts 
the GSU's projects, most of which are 
directed to the benefit of the graduate 
student population and the Notre Dame 
community as a whole. 

Help us ensure that your voice will 
be heard by making sure your depart­
ment sends a representative to the 
Graduate Student Council, where 
firsthand information is provided to all 
represented departments and where 
decisions of importance for graduate 
students are made on a monthly basis. 
Victor J. Krebs President, GSU Sept. 16, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"As things which usually become interesting foster insecurities; experience renders the fears products of the imagination." 
Jason Mitchell 



Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tlile University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectivell' as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Bo~rd. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief.......... . ................. Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controlfer .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager. .. ......... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 




Accent
Tuesday, September 20, 1988 page 7 
Alumni Hall: Center of the Universe? 
A
MATTHEW SPATZ newly carpeted party room, beautiful chapels on campus. accent writer was the only part of the dorm 
Alumni's 11 p.m. Sundayrenovated over the summer Mass, with its organ and lumni Hall has been (thanks, Stanford). Here, guitar choir, is always called "The Center of the residents pour over books in a crowded and prides itself on Universe," an appropriate relaxed and quiet atmo­good celebration and partici­title as its location allows sphere. pation. Fr. George says "We easy walking access to many Other externals include a have the classiest (residents) class buildings, South Dining statue of "Joe College" on campus."Hall, and the student parking dressed in cap and gown, the Being the dorm closest to lot. It also stands as a wel­Madonna and Child, Sts. the Main Circle, Alumni is coming dorm to visitors ap­Thomas and Bonaventure, usually the first stop for visit­
proaching the campus via 
Notre Dame Avenue. 

CD'J~ 
[ •• II ]

of the 
~~~ 

r 
and a relief of Knute Rockne ing Saint Mary's freshman. flanked by two of the old This phenomenon gives prime 
"(:~

Irish Terrier mascots, each socializing opportunity for the
" 

named Clashmore Mike. freshmen of the first floor. 
Built in 1931 under Univer­Says one freshman, "It's like sity President Father Charles a supermarket some nights." O'Donnell at a cost of .......:J~ At An Tostal each spring, 
·~ ~ 
. ...........·..

$450,000, Alumni was Alumni holds its Irish Wake, 
primarily an all-senior dorm the formal of the year for the 
until World War II. It was Dogs. Its theme in the past 
called Alumni to honor the has been to wake a person or 
alumni who were so loyal and other entity which has passed 
supportive of the University. on. Subjects have included 
1

It was originally nicknamed the Seventies, Elvis, and the 
l r
"The Gold Coast," because it near-fated Oral Roberts. At
t\ I

In the days of the 12 p.m. was beautiful, spacious, and any rate, the social activity in curfew, the location allowed more costly than living in Alumni is rated high by its residents to take their time Lyons or Morrissey. Today, residents, because they know getting home, while sudents the quarter.s can hardly be how to have fun together. in other halls required an ex­called spacious, as most of 
--The Observer 1 Rob Regovich
tra five or ten minutes of the old singles have been con­The infamous Dillon-Alumni 
Though not quite the center of the universe, Alumni Hall Ia 
travel. When the hall was verted to doubles, but the rivalry is another tradition of
central at least In the hearts of Its r_,sldents.

built, its central location was residents have learned to the dorm. Although Dillon said to allow residents to ad­make the most of the Another interior feature of 1987-88 winner of the Rector usually takes the friendly mire female strollers-by. Said cramped conditions. interest is Alumni's illustrious of the Year Award, Father competition too seriously, and the Dome in 1949, "Among On the southwest side of the personnel. Vice-president Fa­George Rozum. The South residents frequently voice other things, Alumni is an dorm is the famous "S--t Al­ther William Beauchamp and Dakodan priest with odd their jealousy loudly from the ideal reviewing stand; ley," where tight quarters Director of Campus Ministry sleeping hours and a mean courtyard, Dogs have been Alumni men are competent and overcrowding almost Father Andre Leville enjoy bridge game is one of the known to bark a rebuttal reviewers." The same situa­force residents to become sharing their residence with campus' only full-time rec­toward the Big Red Ones on tion exists to this day. close friends quickly. But the other Dogs of Alumni. tors. He takes great pride in occasion. Recently, this in­
One of Alumni's most out­throughout the dorm, there is Says Beauchamp, "Every Alumni and knows everyone stinctual and spirited barking standing exterior features is a feeling of fraternity. Most hall on campus is good, but I in the hall. He has been with has prompted litigations from the four-story tower facing of the "Dogs" come to know like Alumni. I like the people Alumni for over ten years Fr. George in the form of a the main circle. High upon each other well, and the spirit here." And the Dogs like him, and "wouldn't have it any $25 fine per voiced sentiment. this tower, three of Notre is one of acceptance of as is the case with Fr. Andre. other way." Dame's only genuine gar­anyone, despite differences. Anyone can knock on either Aside from coaching bridge Being the center of the uni­goyles are poised as watch Before this year's policy of door and find a willing ear weekly and mixing the most verse is a hard job to fill, but dogs over the main circle en­not taking resident hall re­for help with a personal prob­amazing (and powerful) as far as the residents of trance. Housed in the fourth quests from incoming fresh­lem or just simple conversa­Christmas eggnogs this side Alumni are concerned, we floor of the tower is "The man, Alumni was the most tion. of the North Pole, Fr. George wouldn't have it any other Loft," which, along with the requested dorm on campus. And let's not forget the cares for one of the most way. 
Nevv clubs on campus 
T 
KERRY COSTELLO Synchronized swimming con­get underway with the acquisi­accent writer sists of two basic actions: the tion of eight sets of pipes. Har­first, called "sculling," in­ren, pipe-major of the band, wo new clubs surfacing volves supporting the body has played bagpipes for nine on campus in the past with the arms while headfirst years, including five years of year are the Synchronized underwater; and the second, competition. Robert Howland, Swim Team and the Bagpipe called "eggbeater,'' involves faculty advisor, started a bag­Band. supporting the body with the pipe band at North Carolina 
feet. State before coming to Notre 
Senior Tara Creedon started Dame. the synchronized swim team, One must be able to swim to which finally materialized last join the synchronized swim Practices are held once year after three years of effort. team, and practices will be every week. According to Har­Last year, the team consisted held twice a week, beginning ren, the band will hopefully of 12 members, but this year 35 as soon as Rolf's Aquatic Cen­play as a group next semester. students signed up at activities ter reopens. No experience is necessary, night. Creedon has competed and bandmembers must pur­regionally and nationally in the The bagpipe band, originated chase a practice chanter to sport, and hopes that eventu­by sophomore Paul Harren, play until the bagpipes are ac­ally the team will enter com­also began last year and has quired. The band hopes to be petitions. Junior Katie Roehling renewed interest. Consisting of ready to play on St. Patrick's 
is vice-president of the team. 15 members, the band hopes to Day. 
Calvin and Hobbes 

'flt.'V£ LN-\DED .' WE'RE Tilt.  
VIRST OOE'S 'It) EVt'K SET  
l=OOT  a~ ~01\\ER.  P\J..NH!  
WW>.T  t>.  1\\SToR\C. ~.......--11t  
~EKT.'  
The Obeervw  
Sophomore Paul Harren, founder of the Notre Dame Bagpipe  
.0 - Band, displays the Intricacies of playing thla unique Instrument.  

• 
The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1988
page 8 

1n latest college poll 

Hurricanes still No. 1 • 
Associated Press fell out of the Top Twenty while opener 19-17 to Notre Dame, 46-3 in first-place votes and 
Pitt and Florida made it for the slipped from 15th to 19th. The 1,082-1,019 in points. 
Miami's dramatic 31-30 first time this season. · last 0-2 team to make the Top Oklahoma moved up from come-from-behind victory over Miami, which rallied from a Twenty was Southern Method­fourth to third with two first­Michigan kept the Hurricanes 30-14 deficit by scoring 17 points ist in 1958. place votes and 1,016 points. 
atop the Associated Press col­in the final 5% minutes, UCLA, a 56-3 winner over The Sooners, who defeated lege football poll Monday while received 52 of 59 first-place Long Beach State, received Arizona 28-10, replaced Clem­Michigan became one of the votes and 1,171 of a possible three first-place votes and son, which dropped from third few teams ever to be ranked 1,180 points from a nationwide remained No. 2 with 1,104 to 12th after losing to Florida with an 0-2 record. panel of sports writers and points.• State 24-21. 
However, two other Big Ten sportscasters. Last week, with 55 voters Notre Dame finished eighth teams, Ohio State and Iowa, Michigan, which lost its participating, Miami led UCLA this week. 
Correction 
A caption in Monday's issue of The Observer incor­rectly stated that Angel Myers won a gold medal for the United States in the wo­men's 400-meter individual medley. Janet Evans was the winner and the woman actu­ally pictured. Myers was disqualified from the Olym­pics after a drug test taken before the Games. 
n.a..-Not111 Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent eem., M:~C~~Pta clualfled ~ling from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvough Friday. The a..-Saint ....,._office, located on the third floor of Hllgg.-Collge Cent8f, M:~C~~Pta claslfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claaalfledala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
Classifieds be JI"II)UI, either In pen1on or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ctw.ct8f1l per day. 
NOTICES  FOR SALE  HELPIIII NEED 2 PURDUE GA'sl CALL GREG x1655  WILL TRADE PURDUE STUD TICKET & $$$ FOR MIAMI STUD TICKET CALL  4 pc. Premier Drum Kit FOR SALE. Make me an offer. Call Paul x1847  HEATHER needs a date. Call "LEATHER" at 263·287!. HAH !  her  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 WORDPROCESSING 237-1949  TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, ORA 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME.  A MATTER OF LIFE OR DEATH. WILL TRADE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S FOR 2 PURDUE GA'S X1213 ASK FOR MARK NEED 1 STANFORD STUD. TICKET Call Vln x2052  GREG £1730 HELP HELP HELP need live STAN· FORD GA'S Tony # 2020 I NEED STANFORD GA's I NEED STANFORD GA's BIG $$$$$$$$'S CALL ED 1753  GROUPS ... GROUPS ... GROUPS You don't have to figure It out elonel Groups for personal growth, eaaer­tlvenesa, weight management, aup­port for black women and adult children of alcoholics are beginning NOW. Call 239-7338 for dellllla.  To CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING And all whom attended tha party et the university park apart­menta' clubhouae saturday night, Thanks for  
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406  LOFT FOR SALE. CALL 237-7192. FOR SALE: ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER $60, ROSSIGNOL FP 203 SKIS $150. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 234-Q696.  SWF SEEKS MUSCULAR -OOPS!-1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S, 2 AIR­FORCE GA'S AND 1 AIRFORCE STUD  I need two GA's for my parents for any of the home games. especially: Purdue Rice Call Sly at £3122  I NEED GA OR STUD TICKETS FOR STANDFORD. PLEASE CALL KATH­LEEN 5176 SMC I NEED AS MANY AS POSSIBLE!  making my debut performance unforgetteble. To say the party waa "rockln" would atlll be an under­allltement! Nick  
lnterden'tl Bible Study-(lnterVrsity Ch­ristian Fellowship) We moved and are now meeting in 317 Lewis. More central! Time is still the same. Thursdays 7pm. And you are still inv~ed to come! Ques·  Technics dOuble cassette deck·$100 call Chris x3338 FOR SALE: CASIO CZ-101 program­mable, dignal SYNTHESIZER ·new con­ (AS IN STUDENT TICKET) CALL CHRISSY X134B I need 1 student or GA ticket for the PURDUE game. Please call Mike at 1662. Will pay big $$.  Trade 1 AIRFORCE FOR 1 PURDUE Call Jake 4010 Need 3 Purdue GA's real bad. Call Pat at 2082  I NEED 5 GA PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN 5176 SMCI I AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE! CALL JEN SMC 43111  Anyone who can root for a doctor, a cone head, a fruit for an out fielder, and a bunch of other whimps has to be nuts! Go with the best in 88 and root for the best team there is ·the Dodgers'!  
tions? Call Jim (263 1621) or Andreas (287 4855). ' LOST/FOUND I LOST FRIDAY 9A.l BETWEEN C-1 AND O'SHAG, A BLUE WALLET. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL EILEEN AT 287-2882 BEFORE 10:00 P.M. PLEASE, I HAVE NO IDENTITY WITHOUT THIS. Helpll I lost a mother o'pearl and brass bracelet somewhere near Cavenaugh on 9·1 0. Has great semental value-$$ reward for return I call Erin at 4915 if you can help mell LOST-LAST THURSDAY AT SMC: 4­ dition, with carrying case and instruc­tions. CALL JOE # 1865 D HOTEL FOR PURDUE WEEKEND E MY PARENTS HAVE ADVANCE PAID FOR FRI AND SAT NIGHT AT THE "WORKS" DOWNTOWN. IF YOUR PAR· ENTS NEED A PLACE TO STAY CLOSE TO CAMPUS CALL JACK 1219 Nikkormat FT3 'N'28mm, 50mm, 80· 200mm lenses, 2 flashes, 2 cases. $550. 282-2577 alter 5pm TICKETS NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X2743  HELP!! I need 2 PURDUE GA's now! WILL PAYI call DAVID x4245 Alrlorce Stud Ticket $20 Miami Stud Ttcket $25 Rice Stud Ticket $20 Call 3719 PLEASEII NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S·1 STANFORD TIX x4364 NEED GA'S 4 PURDUE & STANDFORD WILL TRADE MIAMI,AF STU & $. CALL ED 289-5605. NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S let Mom & Dad see the Irish I KELLY 288­5737 NEED STANFORD TICKETS: Two GA's and One Student, or One GA and Two Student. Anyhow, the three of them want  Hi. My name is MATT. I need a girlfriend. I am a red-head. I also need PURDUE student tickets. Call me for a good time,· or to sell tickets at 283-1771 . I love you all, Matt. I need 4 Tickets to Purdue, 2GA·2ST, • GALL Scott £1053 .................................... ..................... I'M SELLING 2 PURDUE GA'S --BEST OFFER BY 8:00 TONIGHT. CALL KRISTI X4858 & LEAVE NAME & NUM· BE A. EXCHANGE GA'S: 2 PURDUE, 2 AIR FORCE, 2 RICE OR 2 PENN STATE FOR 2 STANFORD. CALL 277·0526 AFTER 6 P.M. I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  INDUSTRY DAY Wednesday September 21 Industry Day Fair 11:00 AM-4:00PM Fitzpatrick Concourse Bring resumes Permanent-Summer Employment Oppor· tunities Industry Day Banquet 5:00 PM Mixer ACC Monogram Room To all the beautiful SMC Freshmen Gumby says "Don't be fools, Vote for Jules!" and Sally tor Freshmen Class President and Vice-President. PS: Gumby luvs you. WELCOME HOME STUDENTS FROM ABROADII\ STUDENT GOVERNMENT INVITES YOU TO A FREE ICE CREAM SOCIAL TUES· DAY, SEPTEMBER 20 FROM 3:30-5:00 IN THEODORE'S. BRING YOUR PIC· TURES AND REMINESCE! PURDUE!  My dear young romantic: I am among the remaining few. If you want to save this endangered species, I need a phone number. S. CANNON YOUR NOBUNNY TILL SOMEBUNNY (OR DUCK) LOVES YOU. I LOVE VA! THINK XMAS' "TOGETHER FOREVER," BETH, THUMPER, NANA & PITTSBURGH SLOW PUNCH, DRINK WITH ME !I BUT DON'T YAK IN MY ROOM. Kn2W GH··EVEN THOUGH I MISSED MY PLANE FLIGHT AND HAD TO SPEND ANOTHER NIGHT AND THEN WENT ON TO COMPLAIN AND DROVE BOTH YOU AND BRIAN INSANE, I JUST WANTED TO SAY I HOPE YOU LOVE ME ANYWAY  
LEAF CLOVER PENDANT, HIGH SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. PLEASE CALL JOYCE AT 5430. Found: dorm room keys(404) in LaFor­tune. Call 277·1485.  GOOD MONEY OFFERED FOR 2 GA'S TO ANY NO HOME GAME. CALL GRETCHEN X4805 NEED 2 GA's TO PENN STATE. BRIAN  to cornell Give MEGAN a call at 2577 if you can help! NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S lor old alumni friend. Your support is greatly appreciat­ I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. CALL NED AT 1178 HELP !I NEED PURDUE TICKETS STUD. and GA'S. CALL X2019  PURDUE I , PURDUE! I need one GA for Purdue. Mom loves ND and wants to see at least one game here this year, and Purdue is the one. Please call 283-2892 ASAP. Thanx!  C.D., Yeah, as if you remember driving Mach 8 alter passing out in the back seat with the News Wench. Mario A.  
PLEASE, IF ANYONE FOUND A GOLD LADIES WATCH AT THt= MICHIGAN GAME, SEC. 29-31 PLEASE CONTACT  272-0291 DESPERATEIII I need 16, yes that's right, 16 GA's to the Penn St. game. Call any time --please I Nancy 4434  ed, call Mike at x2344. Money is littl&tlo concern! Need 2 GAs for NDoMiami game. Will pay big $$$. Call 284-5666.  I NEED ONE PURDUE TICKET CALL JOHN x1491 MIAMI TICKET for sale Call Sarah at 4814  DRUMMERS! BAND SEEKING DRUM· MER! INTERESTED? CALL £3123 to the guy on North Quad playing RANDY RHOADS tunes on Monday, a girl heavy metalist wants to meet you! x3880  NEED RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO G-23 or even lndianapolis,Dayton,Cincinnati Kate x3874 B.P. Blitz? B.P. BLITZ?!  
ME.  REWARD!!II!I  KATE  277-1574.  
ALSO LOST SMALL ALARM CLOCK SUNDAY !VI1 SOMEWHERE IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL WITH ANY INFO--I NEED TO GET UP FOR CLASSES I FOR RENT  Mom and Dads first visit; help me make it a good one Need4 PURDUE tix call 2226 John DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL ERIN AT 3757.  HELP IN DIRE NEED OF 2 PURDUE GA'S: CALL GREG 1402 I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. BUYING TWO GAs AND TWO STUDENT. PLEASE CALL MARIA AT 263·3422 AFTER 7 PM. MY BROTHER WILL TRADE BEALITI·  HELPII I NEED MIAMI STUDs OR GAs, in a big way!! I ALSO NEED 2 STUDs FOR STANFORD AND 1 STUD FOR PENN ST!l $$$ CALL MIKE X2749 I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 284·5221 STANDFORD GA'S!!! PLEASE SELL ME  The Student Union Board is pleased to announce the production of a new mu­sical, "SIMON," on the Notre Dame campus this Feb. 22-25. Anyone inter· ested in the positions of choreographer, stage manager, or musical director should contact Rob Meffe by Sunday at £3660.  B.P. BLITZ??????IIttll\11111 BAH HAH HAH HAH HAH HAH FARLEY'S FINEST FARLEY'S FINEST FARLEY'S FINEST THE MAGIC IS STILL THEREIIII  
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255­36841.!88-0955 DO YOUR PARENTS NEED A PLACE TO STAY DURING FOOTBALL  Need Footbell Tlcksts Four GA's or aa many aa po..tble for Miami, Penn St., and Air Force Call 284-5280 or 287-7752 any11rne Thank you so much  FUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 PURDUE OR STANFORD GA x1999 NICK NEED 2 PURDUE OR AIR FORCE GA'S OR STUDENT BRIAN £1927  YOUR STANDFORD GA'S, MY FAMILY REUNION WEEKEND IS COUNTING ON THEM. CALL MIMI AT SMC 52211111 NEED 3GAS FOR MIAMI AND AIR FORCE 284·5003 ANYTIME  N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213·741· 1338.  HELP! I need a ride to Boston, Mass. for Fall Break. Will help with expenses and driving time. Call Sarah at 4814. JAMES BRAKE & MIKE TRIPPA PleaM 888 Shirley tn The Obsarver  
WEEKENDS? TRY THE "IRISH BED & BREAKFAST"--LOCATED 2 MILES FROM N.D. FOR INFORMATION RING 272-7738 FuRt.iistiii'ii.FiooMs·&·tioi.1iis..i-iE:AR CAMPUS.272-6306 ································································ WANTED  NEED 7 MIAMI TICKETS GA CALL SHARON 2845464 NEED 1 PU-STUDENT TICKET CALL JOHN 1427 I NEED 1 PURDUE TIX CALL MARY 4072 NEED MIAMI STVD OR GA TIX 288· 4160  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 6 STUDENT TICKETS FOR PURDUE. PLEASE CALL ALEX AT 3623. WILL PAY WELL 1$1$1 TRADE 2 STANFORD TIX FOR MY MIAMI STUD TICKET OR CASH; 288· 6603 ................................................................ I need 2-5 Air Force GA's call Tom 1632 .................................... NEED 3 TIX TO STANFORD$$ 2697  NEED STANDFORD STUD OR GA TIXS. CALL MIMI X4447 I'M DYING ... TO FIND 2 PURDUE GA'S PLEASE CALL 284-5458 NEED TO TRADE .... I need to trade 4·6 Stanford GA's for 4-6 Purdue GA's. Please call (213) 301-3128 or (312) 475-1673.  PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB PHILADELPHIA CLUB OctoberBus October Bus Sign Up Sign Up Monday Sept 26 7:00 Sorin Room LaFortune Till, Nikkol, Dave, Chris, Todd, Rob,  ASAP. JIM CORBETT: I WANT YOUR BODY YOUNG GIRL WANTS TO KNOW HOW TO FIND CHILVALROUS KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR. HAPPY BELATED BRTHDAY MATT MICKELI!II LOVE YOUR SECRET AD­MIRER  
·­ Reslllul'llnt Opportunities The Olive Garden lllllllln R-urant, with Ita lively spirit and unique garden Mlllng, Is now hiring ALL POSITIONS: . Hosts & Host.._ . Bartendel'll . Welte111 & Waltreuea . Cashiers . Dlsh-shera-tlttllty . Une c:ooks . Production & Prep Cooks .Bu...... . P-Makers Pleua apply 2pm-4pm, dally, at The Olive Garden 8410 G111pe Roed Mlsh-aka An Equel Opportunity Employe< THE OUVE GARDEN The Accent's On Succen ................................................................ Need ride to Columbus.OH. for October break. Am willing to share expenses. Call Tony at 1089.  NEED 1 PURDUE GA. PLEASE CALL £3023 OR £2999. I have a VERY WEAL TY Irish uncle who. needs to see the Miami gamel He will pay BIG $$$ for GAs\ 11 nol Miami. then any other home game. Please call Vic at 36611 DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY BIG$$$$. CALL MIKE X1380 . HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIIII HATE MIAMIIIII NEED 7 ( YES 7) MIAMI GA TIXI!III CALL x1245 or x1352 HELPI HELPI ~·s my dad's 8-day and he wants a black jagl I can't afford that, but I am looking for 2 Purdue GA's and one student ticket. Don't let my dad be sad on this big dayllllllll Call Jenny X4171 I Need 4 GAs for MIAMI, call Paul x1847 GA & STU Tix needed fpr Purdue game. MOney Is no object.4521-Pat $$$$ NEED PURDUE GA'S BADLY $$$$ CALL x1849  NEED 3 STUD PURDUE AND 2 STUD RICE CALL X4111 THANKS NEEII GA TIX FOR ANY/ALL FOOT­BALl. GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-0058. SS$$1 NEED TWO PURDUE GA'SIIIII!t WILL PAY $$$CALL HEIDI AT 3860 NEED 1 PURDUE GA OR STUD. CALL . THEHESA AT 418911 I NEE:D PURDUE TIX CALL MIKE 4113 I WILL TRADE 4 PURDUE GA'S FOR THREOE MIAMI GA'S. CALL ART AT (901) 525-1691 OR (901) 763-2586. N~;;(j;;(i·o;;~~;~~~i;;i·i;.:;sh;~;;;;d·Gk Can I"'Y blg $$$ Call Jon at 1598 HAV!; 4 PURDUE GA'SII NEED 5 STAN· FOR\) GA'S ·-WANT TO TRADE AND-DR BUY PLEASE CALL MARK AT X1041 WANTED: 2 PURDUE STUD OR GA MAU"EEN X4112 Dad nnd his 3 wives need GA's for Miami­ PERSONALS CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHENANIGANS 27'1-1727 CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHANANIGANS 277-1727 AVOID THE RUSHIIII Hate Rice Earlytll ................................................................ T-Shirts Printed to your spec~ications Call 2389. Chris NEED PURDUE G.A.'S NEED PURDUE G.A.'S NEED PURDUE G.A.'S I need 8 tlx, and I'm wtlllng to pay rno111 for seats that 81'11 together. They must at least be In pairs, NO alnglea. John et x2045. NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX call John at x2045  Sean-· Thanxs guys youre the GREATEST! LUVS YAI Carrie KERRY W. We wish you would call us sometime We think you're incredible! Sarah and Janet Thanks to. ~;,·j;;·;;;~ki~ij-;;;y··2·;~;··w~y an adventure in excess, esp. The Corazon Administration, the Vermin, Scuz and Co.. Meg, Pat, and Jules. Apologies to Fr. about the carpet. Dave B. THE GOLDEN TOUR -PART 1 Gino's East, left on the Dan Ryan, Hotels, Watertower, glass elevators, stuffed animals, . . Thanks Frank -We Love YouI!!I .......~ ........................................................ Hey Frank Timons, We think you're really good looking. You want to go out to Macri's Deli sometime? wiii'·ih~··p;;~~~--:;;i;~··-;;,r;;;;p;;·~;-;;d···ih~ football tickets for Matt Boyle and Jody Gossman please return them to 1 028 Flanner no questions asked Ne~her of us has ever seen a game at NO. We  MARK TAYLOR YOU BAND GOD YOU HAVE CAUGHT MY CURIOUSITYI!III ARE YOU TAKEN? PLEASE RESPOND HERE. DARLA To..riiE...i:iFiuiiis......sroNe.iiet.iG"ii:· SUN. 2:30 AM· THANX FOR THE MEMORIES, THE PNEUMONIA, AND THE BRUISE THE SIZE OF TEXAS ON MY TUSHI XOXO BEKI HAPPY BIRTHDAY KAREN LYNCH Y'all better have a good ole day today, ya hear!I! Happy Birthday to everyone's favorite Texan. The BP Blltzl?t?l Who's kidding who? The blitz got blitzed. Maybe ~was that black make-up that did you in. The road to the stadium continues... Good Job Farleylttll\tll\ HEY RILEY GANG DON'T MISS ARTS AND DRAFTS NITE AT THE COMMONS TONITE!!! FEATURING YVONNE"I'LL TAKE YOU TO HEAVEN IN 2 STEPS"ANGELLOZ  
x1063  face the prospect of seeing none this  Maria  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  year since the budget can't afford more  Happy Birthdaylll  
to provide  HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 GA TIX FOR  Hold everything! I need-2 Purdue GA's  JOSIE  JO  JO  JOIII  I  HOPE  YOUR  tickets, even if they were available. We  Shift-clean  
FREE PREGNANCY TESTING  PURDUE  FOR  PARENTS  PAY  BIG  -will pay $ or trade 2 Air Force GA's; call  FEELING BETTER! THANKS FOR THE  have already missed the Michigan game  It's time for a good "session"  
AND COUNSELING  BUCKS CALL JIM 289-5120  John x1804  WEEKEND  AND  THE  "CHOWDER"!  and Jody a whole week of meals since  Love, Christy, Kristen, Ellen, Bridget and  
CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES  THANKS ALSO FOR HELPING ME L TO  you also have his meal pass. We feel  Lynn  
234-3111  Need 2 or 4 GAs-ANY HOME GAME  Will trade 4 PURDUE GA's for 4 PENN  WITH THE MIAMIMANI YOU ARE A KEY  we have suffered enough for being naive  P. S.  Have you  seen  any good rugby  
x2707 Melissa  ST G,A's Scott x1730  INDIVIDUAL HUANNAIII  freshmen. PLEASE!  matches lately-on or off the pitchl  
•  


Races reveal depth of ND Sailing Club 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club displayed its considerable depth last weekend, performing well in a pair of races. 
The Irish sent squads to Iowa and Kent State to compete in separate regattas. 
In Iowa, Notre Dame placed third overall in a field of 10 teams, behind only Michigan and Wisconsin. In indi-
Greg Guffey 
Club Corner 

vidual results, the "A" team of Pete Wall and Paige Cooper took third, while the "B" tandem of Patti Losinske and Liz Beckley finished fourth. 
The Irish placed second in the seven-team event at Kent State. Michgan's Wolverines also won that race. Individ­ually, Tom Sessions and Betsy Lewis took second in the "A" race, and Chris Bloom headed a tandem that finished third in the "B" division. 
"I'm very happy with the sailing," club president Pete Wall said. "I was pretty pleased because Michigan and Wisconsin are two powerhouses in the Midwest. We hope to fare better against them in the future." 
The Irish will send a team to the women's regatta at Michigan this weekend and also will compete in the MCSA Sloop Championships in Detroit. 
The "C" squad of the Irish Rugby Club bounced back from a season-opening defeat to down Western Illinois Saturday, but the "B" team did not enjoy quite as much success. The "A" group did not play. 
The "B" team lost to Western Illinois 13-12 on a last­minute score to fall to 0-2. Notre Dame's "C" squad won by an easy 16-8 count. 
"The 'B' and 'C' sides looked really good," said club president Jim Lammers. "They showed a lot of intensity and made up for last week's performance." 
The Irish will host Kalamazoo Saturday behind Stepan Center, two hours before the Notre Dame-Purdue football contest. 
The Rowing Club will open its season Saturday in the Head of the Ohio, one of four races for the Irish during the fall season. 
I 'I IS o 1 9 
graduate stude11t 

DJv-tS,yY
uaioa pru..ts ROOTS Flrstt!puo<k: Wednesday, Sept. 21 Hesburgb Library Auditorium 
Rt!miJI.U"'f•pUO<ks: 7:00p.m. and 9:15p.m. 
Wednesday Sept. 28; Oct. 5, 12, 26; and Nov. 2 
tickets available to students, faculty, and staff at the GSU Office (307 Lafortune) or at the door ADMISSION: $1.50 !Per eptsodeJ or $4.001nUJ1ve siJowl,gsJ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
THE THOMAS J. 





W~~&~~~fiR 
____G_QVERNMEN_I-= 
NaCre Dame Law Sdlool presents a lecture by Professor Donald H. J. Hermann Director, Health Law Institute DePaul University College of Law 
on "Stemming the Transmission of AIDS" 
Thursday, Sept. 22 Noon Room 220 Law School Courtroom 
Tuesday, September 20, 1988 The Observer page 9 

Belles share title with Butler 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
For the first time in seven years, the Saint Mary's tennis team shared top honors in its own invitational. 
With an ending total of 36 points, Saint Mary's tied with Butler University for the number-one position. Of the seven participating teams, Saint Mary's was the only non­scholarship entry. 
"I'm really excited about the outcome of the tourna­ment,"said Belles coach Deb Laverie. "We've never finished any better than fifth place. Most of the players from the other teams are playing with full scholarships, so this was a great indication of our playing ability and how the rest of the year should look." 
Sophomore Sarah Mayer remains the only Saint Mary's player who has yet to be defeated in a match. Mayer lost 


SMC volleyball has rough tourney 
Colts defeat Browns, win first game 
Welwme nome StuJents from A£road!! 

Eucharistic Ministry Workshop Sunday, Sept. 18 at 2:30pm Tuesday, Sept. 20 at 10pm SACRED HEART CHURCH 
only nine games in the tourna­ment and defeated her op­ponent 6-4, 6-1 in the final match of the number-three singles competition. 
Many singles' players lost in the final matches of the tourn­ament, but turned in outstand­ing performances to contribute to the championship. 
Jen Block lost a close match 
in the number two singles final, 
7-5, 7-5. 

"Jenny played excellent ten­
nis all week," said Laverie. 
"Her final match came down 
to just a point here and there." 
In number five singles, Angie 
Mueller was defeated 6-3, 6-3. 
''She (Mueller) really lost a close one," said Laverie. "I'm proud of her effort. It's out­standing for a freshman to be in the final match." 
Marie Koscielski, also a 
freshman, fell in the finals of 
the number six competition, 6­
3, 6-3. 

Coach Laverie was espe­cially pleased with the doubles' matches. Mayer teamed up with Charlene Szjako for a good performance, but the duo lost, 
6-4,  6-3,  in  the  conclusive  
match.  
Block  and  Mueller  joined  

forces to win the consolation bracket, 6-4, 6-4, in number-one doubles. 
If Saint Mary's won the number-three doubles' match the Belles would tie for first. If they lost, the team would place second. Freshmen Koscielski and Ellen Mayer battled the pressure for a 7-5, 6-4 victory. 
"I'm extremely proud of the entire team," said Laverie. "This was the best tennis I've seen played by a Saint Mary's team collectively. Our goal at the beginning of this year was to be ranked in the top ten na­tionally. I think it looks very obtainable at this point." 
The Belles next match will be tonight at Anderson College. 
tential and below what we have worked all year to achieve." 
Things didn't improve much on Saturday as Saint Mary's fought its way to a third-place finish competing against eight teams. The Belles overall record for the day dropped to 2-2 as Aquinas of Michigan beat them in the semi-finals. 
Saint Mary's, now 9-4, over­all travels to Goshen tonight for a league match. 
got his first since 1986. 
Matt Bahr added field goals of 21, 29 and 40 yards for the Browns, sending Indianapolis to its third straight defeat. 
Dickerson broke free for a 41­yard touchdown run in the second quarter that tied the game 10-10. He ran for 104 yards on 14 carries in the first half, but added only 13 yards on eight tries in the second half. 
+
American 

Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY\It 

•



ltBI 
OFFICE OF 

@v1PUS MNISTRY 
_..,.. __ 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team encountered a tough weekend as it lost in league play to St. Xavier on Friday 
and  placed  third  in  the  liT  
tournament  Saturday  in .  
Chicago.  

The Belles started strong against St. Xavier and won the first game, 15-6. They folded under pressure as they were edged 14-16 in game two. St. 

Xavier took advantage of this and easily took game three 15­6. 
The Belles were not out of it, though, as they came back with a fine performance and a 15-10 win in the fourth game. This was to no avail, as St. Xavier got themselves together to take the last game and the match 15-7. 
"I was very disappointed with our performance," com­mented head coach Sue Med­ley, "We played below our po-
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND-Mike Pagel, Cleveland's third starting quarterback in three weeks, threw for 255 yards and two touchdowns Monday night, and the Browns' defense virtually shut down Eric Dickerson in the second half Monday to beat the Indianapolis Colts 23-17. 
Pagel, pressed into duty be­cause of injuries to Bernie Kosar and Gary Danielson, showed no signs of rust despite starting for the first time since he was with the Colts in 1985. 

He completed 23 of 38 passes, including first-half touchdowns of 14 yards to Ozzie Newsome and 17 yards to Webster Slaughter. They were the first two touchdowns of the year for Cleveland, 2-1, and Newsome 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1988 

Louganis wins another gold 
Sports Briefs 
Associated Press 
SEOUL-American Greg Louganis, performing with four stitches in his head, won the gold medal in the three­meter springboard diving com­petition Tuesday in the Sum­mer Olympics. 
Louganis hit his head on the board during the ninth dive of the preliminaries Monday and required four stitches. This time, he nailed his ninth dive en route to the gold. 
With the victory, Louganis became the only athlete to win two gold medals in springboard diving. 
Matt Biondi, lower­ing his sights from seven gold to seven medals, won his qual­ifying heat Tuesday in the 100­meter butterfly one day after Janet Evans gave America its first victory at the Seoul Olym­pics. 
While Evans won the 400­meter individual medley gold on Monday, Biondi had to settle for bronze in the 200-meter freestyle as his quest to equal Mark Spitz's seven gold medals in 1972 ended in his first race. 
"The Mark Spitz days are over," Biondi said. 
Boxer Anthony Hembrick's quest for gold ended without a punch as he lost in a walkover. He rushed into the arena, late for his fight, just as his South Korean opponent was being declared the winner. Hembrick left hurriedly, near tears. 
Another Olympic assault also was in jeopardy as Carl Lewis was close to losing his spot on U.S. relay team. That would cost him a chance to win four gold medals, as he did four years ago in Los Angeles. Sprint-relay coach Russ Rogers said Monday that Lewis would be dropped from the 

Olympic TV schedule 
7 a.m.-10 a.m.: men's team gymnastics final, soccer, weightlifting finals 67.5 kilos. 
4-5 p.m.: men's team trial cycling, equestrian three-day dressage and women's air pistol shooting. 
7:30 p.m.-midnight: men's basketball; men's 100-meter butterfly and 400-meter individual medley swimming and women's 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter breaststroke; equestrian cross country and men's water polo. 
12:30 a.m.-2:30a.m. (Wednesday): men's and women's singles tennis; baseball; men's and women's sprint cy­cling qualifications, and men's 4,000-meter individual pur­
suit quarterfinals. 
team if he continued his dis­ruptive behavior. 
Lewis has argued loudly with his coaches over the role of his personal adviser, who has been banned from practices, and Rogers said: 
"He's at the end of his rope. The only thing he can do now is hang himself." 
A little Romanian gymnast, meanwhile, was evoking memories of a time 12 years ago, when a countrywoman no bigger than her captivated the world by becoming the original perfect 10. That was Nadia Comaneci; this was 4-foot-6 Daniela Silivas, who had lOs in the uneven bars and floor ex­ercise during women's team competition. 
The American gymnasts, in fourth place after compul­sories, were done in by their own mistakes and an East Ger­man protest. They still had a shot at bronze. 
In diving, U.S. gold medal fa­vorite Greg Louganis had a close brush with a board, but escaped serious injury. Leading the qualifying for the springboard and going for a second consecutive Olympic sweep, Louganis hit his head 



International Students: Your dream ofhighereducation can come true. 
We at Stanley H. Kaplan can help. We're the 
leading test prep company in America, with 
125 centers and 50 years' experience. 
Kaplan's test preparation courses prepare 
students to take the standardized exams used 
as admissions criteria for all levels of higher 
education in the U.S. 

Exams such as TOEFL, GMAT, MCAT, GRE, 
DAT, SAT, ACT, as well as advanced medical 
and nursing licensure. 

If a student wants to further his or her study 
in the U.S., and then return home with greater 
knowledge, please call or write us. 
We've helped thousands of students' dreams 
come true. 

STANLEY H. KAPlAN IS AUTHORIZED UNDER FEDI'RAllAW TO ENROll NON-IMMIGRANT AliEN STUDENTS. 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H.KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL aNTER LTD. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 
while attempting a reverse 2%­sommersault in his ninth of 11 dives. 
He got out of the water with­out help, rubbed the top of his head and smiled. He scored a 6.3. 
He came back about a half­hour later, five stitches in his head, and mugged for the crowd before launching him­self into a near-perfect reverse 1 %-sommersault with 3112 twists. It earned 87.12 points, the highest score of the prelim­inary round, and he made Tues­day's final easily, where the scores start fresh. 
Mter two days of medal events, the Soviet Union led with six, two of them gold. The United States and China, with one gold apiece, were tied for second with four medals. 
Evans captured the women's 400-meter individual medley swimming event by nearly two seconds over world champion Noemi Lung of Romania. 

The SMC Intramural Co-Ed Flag Football captains' meeting is today at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. This is the only time entries will be accepted. Entry forms are available in the Saint Mary's dorms and in the Angela Athletic Facility. For more information, call284-5290. -The Observer 
The ND Aikido Club is holding practices Mondays and Wednesdays from 6 to 7:45 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Aikido is a defense-oriented martial art in which students learn to redirect an opponent's en­ergy so that the attacker is thrown by his own directional force or immobilized with a joint lock. New members are always welcome with no experience necessary. For more information, call Brian Weidmann at 288-0954 or Brian McCarthy at 272-0196. -The Observer 
Stepan Courts will be reserved from 4:15 to 6:15p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons running through Wednesday, Sept. 28. The 5-10 and Under Basket­ball tourney will be held during these times and have priorities on the courts. -The Observer 
Jazzercise has come to Notre Dame. Non-Varsity Ath­letics is offering a 5:10p.m. class on Mondays and Wed­nesdays at Rockne Memorial. Register at the NVA office, and call 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
In National League baseball action last night, Atlanta beat San Francisco 4-3, Cincinnati downed San Diego 7-2, Los Angeles blanked Houston 1-0 and Pittsburgh edged St. Louis 5-4. In the American League, New York defeated Baltimore 3-2, Toronto edged Boston 5-4, Cleveland beat Detroit 4-3 and Chicago whipped Texas 7-3. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through 
Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­
tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 





VOTER 

REGISTRATION 
If you did not reg­ister at home, you can register here in St. Joseph County and vote as citizens of the state of Indiana. 

* North and South Dining Halls (Lunch and Dinner) 
* LaFortune Student Center (2 -4PM) 

September 20 -22 

Tuesday, September 20, 1988 The Observer page 11 
•
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
6 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep tion for any Business senior or MBA with a concentra­tion in Marketing interested in career opportunities with United Telephone of Indiana in the Upper Lounge, Uni­versity Club. 
6:30 p.m. The SUB Movies Commission meets for Spring 
Movie scheduling and other topics in the SUB office. 7 p.m. Ladies of NDSMC meeting, Stapleton Lounge Conference Room, LeMans Hall. 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Philadel­phia Story," directed by George Cukor, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­tion for all MIS, MCC, and CAPP seniors interested in career opportunities with Heller Financial in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
1 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­tion for all those majoring in Chemical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering interested in career op­portunities with Amoco Oil Company in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
8 p.m. The Fellowship of Christian Athletes meeting in 
St. Edward's Hall Chapel. 9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Back Street," directed by John Stahl, Annenberg Auditorium. 

DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Meatball Hero Veal Parmesan Roast Turkey Broccoli Casserole 

Saint Mary's 
Baked Ham Salisbury Steak Shrimp Oriental Deli Bar 

COMICS 
Bloom County 

The Misadventures of Buzz Mcflattop 
:~iT ~>A~ Sfll.llWA/!)1(' 'h JfiS5m I brzz ~ ~~rJ~vt I!Ura ro r:b, Al/o .-r.r 
5!A Of'P(J(TINJrY "¥/'~ Ms ~~ ~ 1.ll' 1Jf1!: ro fll$1 ., 100.5 or 5~FP 4t fi.A~t ~-4r.N6 • HE~ trJ LWS SNII· 
J,:ljr A<~ lblj.(.J{ 
ACROSS 27 Constitution 

I Circle segments 5 Watch-pocket ribbons 9 Young'un 12 Strike 
vigorously 13 G.I. vehicle 14 "-,vidi, 
vici" 15 Nursery steed 17 Ferber 18 Compass 
point 19 Apply graffiti 20 Tabloid's grist 22 Withdraws, in 
away 25 Actor Donahue 26 Dowel 
component 31 Half of a 60's folk quartet 34 Musical for Aquarians 35 Imprecise time umt 36 Rainbow goddess 
37 Church notices re matrimony 
38 Milk or hand follower 39 Marathon segment 
40 Like the Gobi 
41 Merits 
42 Stragglers 
45 Black cuckoo 
46 Siberian tent 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

47 Flag's postiOn, 
at times 52 Grievance resolver 
55 "Tippecanoe and Jyler 
56 Actress Arthur 57 Asea 58 Bubble-bath 
denizen 61 Writer Grey 62 Lamb 63 Social 
grouping 64 Lodge man 65 Super Bowl 
XXM.V.P. 66 Flock members 
DOWN 
I How Lindy 
flew 2 Vestments 3 Tinker, Evers 
or Chance 4 Causes frustration 5 Norwegian sea arm 6 Poetic adverb 
or preposition 7 Mrs. Truman 8 Shades 9 Childhood 
keepsake 10 Pavlova II Rheostat's 
control 12 "Mask" star 
Berke Breathed 
lf.25JXXJ f?FJ5ei/RCHCR17TCR5 liKe :Jetrr 1rJ 
me~ -m5T t.IIB 
!N 7H£ ~KY e!IC/i PIIY 
flJK 3/Mit.IIR !JeN€FIT6. 
a:wij££ .NIY ~IRL SIN )(KJ~E. 'rii/S IS 
7tJufRa::ri.P 


14 Harsh criticism 16 Droop 21 Altar in the sky 23 Audit makers 24-Main 28 Citrus peel 29 Prime beef cut 30 Somepass receivers 31 Unpleasant person 
The Far Side 
32 -rug 33 Fortune 
starter? 34 Rocklike 37 Operated at a 
bazaar 38 Deform in 
battle 41 Carry out 43 Pathfinder 44 Actor Carney 45 Medicinal 
plant 
48 Facing the pitcher 49 Treat with disdain 50 Religious groups 51 Gambling 
profit 52 Cutting tool 53 -estate 54 Sit on the 
throne 59 CoaJ holder 60 Grackle 
Gary Larson 


THURS: James Bond's Moonraker FRI: Woody Allen's Zelig SAT: Repo Man 
ALL TIMES: 8 pm & 10:15 pm ADMISSION $2 CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
• 





Sports 
Tuesday, September 20, 1988 
PE upsets defending champ in women's opener 
By CHRIS COONEY possession when quarterback Defensive coach Jim Toohey still have some kinks to work players from last year's of­Sports Writer and team captain Colleen felt the key factor in the game out. However, she is still opti­fense," said Lyons coach Steve 
O'Conner took a quarterback occurred when PE stopped the mistic that BP will have a Sewell. "We have a whole new 
Pasquerilla East upset sneak in from the two-yard Blitz's opening series on the chance to make the playoffs. line and quarterback and our defending champion Breen­line. Mter that, the steadfast five-yard line. In another game Sunday star running back graduated. I Philips, 6-0, in women's Inter­Packer defense stopped the BP O'Conner said she thought night, Lyons combined a tena­was pleased that they played hall football action Sunday ·goal-line attempt. the spirited team effort greatly cious defense with Debbie Niic­so well." night. It was one of three over­This year when games go into influenced the outcome. hel's 77-yard touchdown to beat He also noted that the time games on Cartier Field. overtime, each team will get "We played as a team, every­Walsh. defense's adjustment, led by 
In other match-ups, Lewis two chances to score from the one played, everyone contrib­"Scoring on the third play senior Julie Bernhardt, to a tied up Knott, 24-18, in 4 over­five-yard line. uted," she said. definitely set the tone for the strong Walsh passing attack, times, while Farley beat "We were really happy to Blitz coach Jeff Elia was dis­game," said Lyons captain clinched the game in the second Siegfried, 14-0 and Lyons beat the champs," said PE co­appointed with the loss, which Cathy Condit. "I was really im­half. stopped Walsh, 8-0. PW also ach Rob Price, "especially he attributed to youth and-in­pressed with Walsh but I think The action continues Wed­needed overtime to defeat since we've only had three experience. Captain Karen we all played well tonight. I nesday night when Howard Badin, 12-6. practices and they had twice Marsh added that with only can't single anyone out." begins its season against Badin 
PE won on its first overtime as many players." three returning seniors, they "We lost a lot of experienced and Farley opposes Lewis. 
Intelligence, discipline vital to Eilers' success 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Pat Eilers has earned his playing time the hard way. 
The senior flanker from St. Paul, Minnesota, wasn't even offered a scholarship to Notre Dame after high school and. in­stead, attended Yale-not your national football powerhouse. 
Soon, though, he made a big decision, and he's been wearing the Irish blue and gold ever since. Neither he nor the Irish coaching staff could be happier. 
"I wasn't satisfied with the football program at Yale,'' ·said Eilers. "I decided that if I was going to do som~thing (with football), I wanted to play for a national championship." 
Eilers contacted Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz after his fresh­man year with the Elis, and then made the transfer. In­eligible for his sophomore year, he played impressively in his first spring practices and earned a scholarship. 
"He always gives it the best he has." said Irish receivers coach Pete Cordelli. "He works as hard as anyone and is al­ways trying to learn." 
Special teams became Eilers' home last season, as he led the entire squad in special teams appearances with 224, 64 more than any other Irish playet'. Eilers plays on all four Notre Dame special teams and has made his mark with numerous first hits, key blocks, and now even impressive returns. 
"Special teams are great," said Eilers, noticeably relish­ing his role. "It's a one-shot deal, full speed with reckless abandon. I think it's what foot­ball is all about." 
And the Notre Dame special teams have been outstanding so far-in no small part due to four units with attitudes like Eilers'. 
"Our goals are zero return yards," said Eilers, "and no blocks allowed. (Special teams) are a lot like offensive football where 11 guys have to do their job." 
While Eilers has grown ac­customed to his role on the spe­cial teams, he's just a new­comer to the the offense. Playing flanker and even occa­sionally in the wishbone back­field, he has seen consistent playing time. 

Holtz asked Eilers to make 
the move last December in Dal­
las and the stocky, 5-11, 197­
pounder hasn't looked back. 
.. 
Pat Ellers 

"I wanted to do whatever was best for the team," noted Eilers. "Of course, you're al­ways looking for more playing time." 
Another new role for Eilers is as punt returner. He doesn't have the speed of a Ricky Wat­ters or a Rocket Ismail, but Co­ach Cordelli cites other, equally important skills. 
"His intelligence makes him effective," said Cordelli. "You've got to make intelligent decisions quickly. Intelligence plus great effort makes one heck of a football player." 
That inteligence could be fruitful for the Irish in another way as well. Because of his transfer, Eilers still has a year of eligibility remaining, and his academic pursuits should al­low him to play next season. 
Eilers will graduate in May 
with a mechanical engineering 
degree and hopes to return next 
year to complete a biology 
degree. The decision on his 
football career is in the hands 
of the Notre Dame administra­
tion. 
One issue that Eilers, as a 
receiver, has heard plenty of in 
the last two weeks is the pass­
ing game. Both he and Cordelli 
are committed to improve­
ment. 

"We've got to make the op­
position defend both (the run 
and the pass). We've got our 
mind set to get the passing 
game going. We'll do it." 
Eilers sounds sure, and noth­
ing has been able to stop him 
so far. 
Grace under pressure 

AP Photo 

After hitting his head on the board during an errant dive Monday that caused tour stitches, American Greg Louganls won the gold medal In the three-meter springboard competition Tuesday night In Seoul. The complete Olympic roundup Is on page 10 with the TV schedule. 


Dillon starts season with win 
By DAVE MCMAHON Sports Writer 
Although offense was hard to come by for some teams, Dillon survived its first test of the 1988 Interhall football season with a 7-0 victory over Off-Campus. 
In other Parseghian division games Sunday, Morrissey and Flanner fought to a scoreless tie and Keenan defeated Grace 14-8. 
"We played pretty well for our first game," said Dillon captain Paul Drey. "Our defense played a great game and the offense had a good first half." 

Gary O'Brien had the lone score for Dillon as he plunged in from the three yard line. 
Stanford defeated Holy Cross 23-0 and Cavanaugh and Zahm held each other scoreless in other Leahy division action. 
Quarterback Raoul Gonzales threw touchdown passes to Rob Merkle and Chris Moscardelli and Merkle ran for another as St. Edward's blanked Pangborn 18-0 in the Rockne division. 
"We have a lot more talent than we did last year," said Steve Schmidt, St. Ed's cap­tain. "We weren't to sure wl)at 
Dillon won the Interhall championship in 1987 with a victory over Stanford, the 1986 title holder. 
All Interhall teams will return to action next Sunday. to expect, but we keyed on the pass and it worked." 
Tim Kaiser scored on a boot­leg option for Fisher to tie Sorin 6-6. 
"Our defense played great and our offense got rolling in the second half,'' commented Fisher captain Jim Twecek. 





