
This is winter?
IACCENT: Students provide housing Partly sunny and warmer today with a high in the low 
60s. Expect variable clouds 
tonight with a 40 percent
IVIEWPOINT: New dorm lottery policy 
chance of light rain. 


MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Signs announcing that bulbs have been planted have appeared across campus. Encouraging passers-by to 'please keep off,' the signs also serve to remind passers-by that spring will return to South Bend-­eventually. 
Solutions to campus computer virus sought 
VOL. XXII, NO. 53 

By SARAH VOIGT Staff Reporter 
An unpredictable, potentially harmful virus struck Notre Dame recently. The scene of at­tack, however, was not the in­firmary, but rather the Macin­tosh computer labs in LaFortune and O'Shaghnessey Hall. 
According to Mark Eggers, Network Communications Analyst for the University Computing Center, a computer virus is a program that enters a computer system, effects the system and then duplicates it­self. Depending on what the virus is programmed to do, it can simply cause quirks in the system, or it can delete entire programs and close files. 
The virus that infected Macintosh computers on campus in late September is called the "n virus, " according tern became infected. 
According to Cooper, this virus epidemic frightened many students away from the computer labs. Since early Oc­tober, however, · the Macln­toshes have been freed of the "n virus"and innoculated from ever contracting this particu­lar virus again, said Cooper. 
Cooper said that programs have been developed recently that can disinfect con­taminated disks. "The func­tions of these programs are to detect the presence of the virus and then to extract it from the application," said Cooper. 
Cooper explained two preventative measures the Macintosh system uses to com­bat a virus attack. "Tiie 'killvirus' is a dummy 'n virus' that inhibits t}1e real virus from spreading through the applica­tions. Then we have a 'vaccine' function that acts like a sen­
PLO leaders say they will accept UN resolution 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria--PLO leaders accepted a U.N. resolu­tion Sunday implicitly recog­nizing Israel's right to exist and recommended the PLO's parli­ament to endorse the decision. 
Approval by the Palestine National Council, the PLO's parliament-in-exile, is vir­tually certain and would meet one of the conditions for U.S. recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
The action by a committee of PLO leaders showed that chair­man Yasser Arafat has won his struggle with hardliners over the controversial U.N. resolu­tion 242. In the 450-member PNC, 80 percent to 85 percent of the parliamentarians -are aligned with Arafat. 
In Washington, President Reagan was asked jf he was pleased with the PLO leaders' action and said, "We're still looking at that; that's all I can say." 
The declaration accepting the resolution was debated and being drafted by a committee 
.illi!L;. 
Wood an' tree 

Senior Joe Wood found a natural nook to rest near many students outside to enjoy the waning days of LaFort.une. Unseasonably pleasant weather lured autumn. 
Palestinian guerrilla· kills hostage, is seized after 18 hour ordeal 
for presentation to the plenary session of the Palestine Na­tional Council, which began a four-day meeting in Algiers on Saturday. 
"The PNC will come out with a political decision and a pro­gram of peace," said PLO spokesman Ahmed Abdul­Rahman. 
"In the political statement, we will adopt all resolutions of the u.N. Security Council dealing with the Palestinian question. What's more, we will emphasize resolutions 242 and 338 as the basis for an interna­tional conference to achieve peace in the Middle East." 
Resolution 242 . calls for an end to hostilities and Israeli withdrawal from territories oc­cupied in the 1967 war. Adopted by the Security Council in 1967, it implicitly recognizes Israel by referring to the right of all states in the area to live within secure and recognized borders. 
Resolution 338, passed in 1973 during the Arab-Israeli war, calls for an end to fighting, urges implementation of Resolution 242 and, most im­portant: calls for negotiations between Arabs and Israel toward "a just and durable peace in the Middle East." 
In the closed-door committee meetings among ·PLO leaders, there was strong opposition to Resolution 242 from the Marxist-oriented groups, par­ticularly George Habash's Popular Front for the Libera­tion of Palestine. 
Habash's faction is the second-largest of the eight groups comprising the PLO. Arafat's Fatah is the largest. 
Sources close to the talks said that after two days of haggling, it was clear no compromise was possible. 
Habash agreed to note his reservations but bow to the majority and not create a major split. 
Salah Khalaf, a top Arafat aide known as Abu lyad, said, "Never in my career have I seen the Palestinian leadership acting as responsibly as it is during this session. Unity is priority and the minority is ac­
S..PLO.oaae7 
The Observer I Don Pan 

to Joel Cooper, a campus com­tinel that detects the virus, Associated Press that seized a U.N. observation meet the guerrillas' demands puter consultant who works ex­alerts the user and guards the post in south Lebanon about 8 for a helicopter or an escort to tensively with Macintosh sys­system from worms and JERUSALEM--A Palestinian p.m. Saturday. take them -to the port city oi tems. Since early October, viruses," said Cooper. guerrilla, who kept awake The guerrillas took the Sidon. Mter nightlong negotia­
Cooper has worked to kill the According to Cooper, the during an 18-hour hostage victim--a Lebanese technician­tions, four Palestinian guerril­virus so that the computers in 
highest risk group includes drama by cutting his arm with -and five Finnish soldiers las surrendered Sunday mor­the writing labs would bt those who share applications a bayonet and pouring salt in hostage after their plans to ning.
healthy. 
like MacWrite with their the wound, killed a Lebanese launch an attack in Israel But one man in his 20s 
The "n virus" traveled on ap­friends. The more computers 
captive Sunday before being failed, security sources in refused to lay down his auto­plications such as MacWrite that a disk enters, the greater overpowered by U.N. soldiers. south Lebanon said. matic rifle and grenades. and MacProject. As a result, the possibility that it will be­The gunman, who U.N. offi­Timur Goksel, spokesman "He got nervous at one pointwhen a student inserted a con­come infected. cials said was high on drugs or for the 5,700-member U.N. in­and pumped three bullets into 
taminated disk into the Macin­alcohol, belonged to a five­terim force in Lebanon, said 
tosh computer, the whole sys-See VIRUS, page 3 member Palestininan squad U.N. negotiators refused to See HOST AGE, page 6 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------.---~-------------------------­
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
The United Way is nearing its goal of $3,405,000 for its 1988 Gampaign drive, Father William Beauchamp, Uni­versity executive vice president reported. The drive has raised 80 percent of its goal, with less than two weeks before the drive ends on Nov. 23, said Beauchamp, cam­paign chairman for the United Way of St. Joseph County. 
-The Observer 

OF INTEREST , : 
Interviewing: Make It Happen will be the topic of a presentation today and Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Hes­burgh Library Lounge. Students of all majors are welcome to hear Mr. Dell Lucas of Career and Placement Services. 
-The Observer 

Notre Dame Chorale Fall Concert will be held Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Sophomores interested in the Sophomore Committee for Junior Parents Weekend 1989 must apply in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune, during regular business hours by Friday, Nov. 18. -The Observer 
Overseas Development Network will meet today at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. There will be a video of a panel discussion of volunteer work focusing on the Peace Corps. -The Observer 
Senior Block Party will ·be held this Friday in the JACC fromn 3 to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
Black Cultural Arts Fashion Show tryouts will be held at Washington Hall Nov. 16 and 21 at 7 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the door for the Nov. 16 tryout. For more information call Niobe Joseph at 283-4970. -The Observer 
Auditions for the Feb. 22-25 production of the musical "Simon" will be held Nov. 29-30 from 6-9:30 p.m.. Sign up for an audition time in the Student Union Board Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Any ques­tions can be directed to Rob Meefe at 283-3360. -The Ob­server 
Thanksgiving Service Project at the House of Hope on Nov. 23-27 is looking for interested students. Call Angi at the Center for Social Concerns at 239-5293. -The Observer 
French Club is going to see the Gauguin Exhibit in Chicago on Nov. 20. Call Mike McCormick at 283-3372 to sign up. -The Observer 
-

Amnesty International needs artists to design Christmas Cards. Call John Farley at 283-1561 for more information. -The Observer 
Photographers are needed to work on the 1989 JPW slide show. Those interested who have a 35mm camera should contact Dianna Gullott at 283-2639. -The Observer 
"Religion and Human Rights" will be the topic of a speech by Father Michael Himes, who has been invited to deliver this speech at the Fortieth anniversary of the Unjted Nations. Father Himes will speak in the Keenan chapel today at 8:15p.m. and a reception and mass will follow. Seating will be limited. 
-The Observer 
D~lign Editor .. . Lisa Tugman Design A11i.ttant . . ........ Ann Buff Typesetter~... . . . . ........ Jim Mercurio 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••• 00 00. 
Andy Schlidt News Editor.................... Michelle Dall Copy Editor .................. Rachael Jarosh Sports Copy Editor .......... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Mike Truppa Alit. Viewpoint Editor .. Slyvester Flood Viewpoint Layout.. Annette Rowland 


TM at.ner (USPS '99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& eum and vacation periods. TM at.net" is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writina Tile Olleentr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46H6. 
TM ~-is a member of TM .u.odated rr-. All reproduction riahts are raerved. 
Accent Editor .............. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ........ Kathy Lenney Accent Designer.. ......... Robert Sedlack Typists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diana Bradley 
····················oo······· ............... Will Zamer 
ND Day Editors ............. Diana Bradley ....................................Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor ...................... Liz Lobb Photographer .......... Don Pan 
The Observer Monday, November 14, 1988 . 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Housing policy destroys 'family unity' at ND 
Imagine this scenario: Your parents kick you out of the house because you are going to have a new baby brother or sister. Maybe they make you move in with your next-door neighbors. Or maybe they put you on a waiting list in case any of your other brothers. or sisters decide to move out voluntarily. 
But don't worry. This situation is purely hypothetical, since no family could possibly be cruel enough to force a family member to leave his or her home. 
Wait--worry. It's not purely hypothetical. No family except peritaps the "Notre Dame fam­ily" could do such a thing. 
Freshmen, sophomores and juniors have recently received a letter informing them that their dorms may not have room for them after one-fourth of each hall's capacity has been reserved for incoming freshmen. If this does happen, next year's sophomores, juniors and seniors may transfer to a hall that does have room for them, or a lottery may be held to determine a waiting list for each hall and as­signments will be made as openings occur. 
Whatever the case turns out to be, there is a possibility that students will be kicked out of their dorms if they don't turn in housing con­tracts on time or if more students turn in con­tracts than their dorms have room for. 
What happened to the Notre Dame "family?" 
Of course incoming freshmen should be able to live on campus to acclimate them to this family. But does this mean that other family members no longer have the privileges of or are even a part of the family? 
This is what the University in effect is saying by introducing the possibility that students may be forced to leave their dorms. 
Well, you might say, virtually every other school in the United States has a similar policy, and most students at those schools can't even get campus housing after their sophomore or junior years. We didn't go to every other school. We came to Notre Dame. We made the decision to join the Notre Dame family--a very special aspect of Notre Dame. 
Many gave up th~t. opportunity to join frater­nities or sororities at other schools, since these are outlawed at Notre Dame. But we never really missed anything because our halls are supposed to be like fraternities and sororities without the negative aspects. After all, most of us have lived in the same dorm. for the years we've been here, or at least plan to live in the same dorm. We've participated on the same interhall teams with the same teammates. We've developed close friendships with the people we've lived with during our time at Notre Da~e. 

But these factors appear to be irrelevant to the University. 
One would think that an administration which claims to care so much about the whole "Notre Dame experience" a student coming here receives would do whatever possible to enhance that experience. 
One would think also that an administration which proclaims how special the "Notre Dame family" is would do its best to protect the unity of the family. 
One would think that this same administra­tion would think of options other than forcing students to leave their dorms to accomodate incoming family members. 
What about limiting the number of freshmen accepted so as not to sacrifice the quality of living for students already accepted and attend­ing the University? Or what about the Task Force for Residentiality's suggestion that the University should "seriously consider" build­ing adequate housing for students who desire on-campus housing? 
To be fair to the University and Student Residences, none of this is guaranteed to hap­pen. But the fact that it is being considered and planned for should make us wonder how con­cerned the University really is about the mem­bers of its family. 

Carroll Aud. SMC Tues, Wed, T h u rs( 1 5, 1 6, 17) 9& 1 1 $ 1 
sponsored by SMC OFF CAMPUS 
Going to USC? All Saint Mary's Students must be at LeMans shuttle stop at 3:00pm on Nov. 23 or we'll leave without you. Plane tickets & other important into will be passed C"' A D OUt then. STUD I NT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
(GJ(Q) ~ [R{ ~ ~ [H] tJ .L .l. ........, 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~• SOCIETY~ 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any. cqme tq qur Qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper• 
"TWO THUMBS UP! AWONDERFULTIME AT THE MOVIES..: 
·Cent SoN~' R¥ [betl SISKU I. EBlRT I THf 'o.'ltS. 
CHER·NICOLAS CAGE 
M®NS1RUCK 
,,...~~-""·+. 
" '~-·!>. 
~~ 


Monday, November 14, 1988 
Elderly landlady 
suspect in killings 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif.­Police found a fifth corpse Sun­day buried in the yard of a tree­shaded Victorian boardinghouse and hunted for the 71-year-old landlady suspected of killing the elderly victims and cashing their So­cial Security checks. 
Investigators said they believe seven or eight bodies may have been buried in the yard, based on the number of residents who are missing, Homicide Lt. Joe Enloe said. 
Authorities were seeking boardinghouse manager Dorot­hea Puente for questioning, police Sgt. Bob Burns said. 
A resident of the rooming house, John McCauley, 59, was arrested Sunday for investiga­tion of being an accessory to homicide, Enloe said. Aut­horities said they believe he helped Puente dig the graves of the victims. 
"We do not believe that this could have been done solely by herself," Enloe said. "We know she's had people help her dig the holes." 
Puente, who is on parole for her 1982 conviction for drug­ging and robbing three people, was interviewed by police after the first body was discovered Friday but released for lack of evidence. 
The woman apparently had been cashing some of the vic­tims' Social Security checks for several months, Enloe said. He said the motive in the slayings 
was believed to be robbery. 
Earlier, polfce had said the 

victims may have died by
p;o~is~o~n~in.;;g;;.·---------------------, artwork. ~ 

pROS\,;EM:­
havefligh" M.af'i's studen~i.ng the'Y -dent and ~ SChi.cagO· A.ssu. i.ng break, 
A. t'!otte DaCY~::e Airport t~ute ot 'ftan~;:~o get {rom to catch at en)o'i ever'¥ ~ n should t e'i 
h want to portatto

bot {trans 1 t 
hat mode 0 0'[\are• • .-.a\ A.i.rpor 
w o. d to Reg\0•· · 
South uen . M.i.chi.ana 
a) car Hight {rom
muter 
b) co~ umo 
e)Un•ted 



Ul\ON;. 
SOL 

.,de_,l,.,...ke -k' gcharg
d ar ttl 
. w\\s an p ct answer· d o\ution, Cit'i tr_afhc, car an i.ncorre to be a goo ~end could 
travehng b'ih'\e "b" ma'i secedm\a'i in South t a A.nd w t k' nd Ol e worse 'ie ' ' 
that an'i t o'l\are· Or, we\\, \et s 
memb er {\" ghts at \d r(lean· .. 
re missing t h Bend cou mean . n in Sout . htmare· , t'lot on\'i cance\\at\0 \d be a ntg ratu\ationS· porta•
it cou " " cong {trans
just sa'i swered c, \' b\e mode oc and the 
lt 'You an ost re ta west lare . . d Limo the m oHers the \o int {or the 
is \.JntteO'[\are, it also refarriva~ po ults in no ti.on to nient dep~rt~. c\e· 'fhtS res ' most conv~ "ND };\at~ tr {the students 
dents • t e . ....,izauon o 
stu d maXb•· 
hass\es an . "ment·
en}O, 

learn this lesson the hard way? If you need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call674·6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 

United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 
The Observer 

Been waiting long? 
While waiting for the shuttle Saturday, Saint Mary's books for a pillow, Allison .made herself comfortable senior Allison Weston peeks out from under her scarf on the bench. at the Grotto shuttle stop. Using her backpack full of 

Nearly $1.1 million may be spent on prison decorations 
Associated Press 
BOSTON--Massachusetts has budgeted nearly $1.1 mil­lion to beautify prisons with art under a little-known law being criticized by lawmakers and officials. 
The expenditures for anyth­ing from lawn sculpture to paintings to art classes stem from a law passed in 1981 under then-Gov. Edward King. It re­quires that 1 percent of con­struction costs on public build­ings be devoted to art, up to a maximum of $100,000. 
Prison construction will be one of the biggest areas of state construction over the next de­cade because of the need to up­date and expand an antiquated system. 
As a result, a large chunk of public money will be go toward art in new or renovated state 
and county prisons. 
Massachusetts, with an $11.6 billion budget for fiscal1989, is grappling with a potential def­icit that some say could be $500 million or more because of less­than-projected revenue growth. 
Gov. Michael Dukakis, who lost the presidential election to George Bush last week, is ex­pected to address the fiscal crisis on Monday. 
The art law, which was buried within a complex con­struction bill, drew incredulous responses from some public of­ficials. 
"You have people here ac-· cused of stealing art from people's homes and they're going to be rewarded with art? It doesn't make any sense," said Bristol County Sheriff David Nelson, whose new Bris­tol County House of Correction, slated for completion next 
year, qualifies for $100,000 in 
State Rep. Joseph Hermann · introduced legislation last week to exempt prisons from the 1 percent law. 
"I don't consider a jail a public place, unless I'm going to say, 'Come on, honey, let's go down to the jail and look at the art,'" he said. 
State officials defended the art expenditures, saying they are meant to benefit visitors to prisons and neighbors of the 

1heRice 
University 

Publishing 
Program 


The Rice University Publishing Program, June 19-July 14, is designed to develop talent, skills and career opportunities for per­sons interested in book and magazine publishing. The program is designed for students who will be entering their senior year in 1989 and for college graduates. Although participants come from all dis­ciplines, the program has been of particular value to students in English and other Humanities, Journalism, Art, Social Sciences and Business. 
The roster ofguest lecturers includes more than forty top profession­als in editing, graphics, marketing and production from throughout the country. 
For more inf~rmation, contact the Office of Continuing Studies, Rice University, P.O. Box 1892, Houston, Texas 77251-1892. Tele­phone (713) 520-6022 or 527-4803. 
RICe Unitc:niC:'• IS an EO' AA Empl~er. 

facilities, not just inmates. 
"A piece of public art could do a lot to remediate the affect of having a prison in your com­munity," said Rick Schwartz, a spokesman for the Massachu­setts Council•' on Arts and Humanities. 
At the Worcester County Jail, for example, an outdoor sculp­ture was put in place with art money. Schwartz said there has been an increase in the number of inmates taking art appreciation courses, partly as a result of the sculpture proj­ect. 
"Ninety percent of all prisoners get out," Schwartz said. "To put these people only through the most brutal situa­tion and have them experience only the worst aspects of life is short-sighted."
Kathy Robertson, spokes­woman for the Division of Cap­ital Planning and Operations, which manages state construe­tion projects, said the art "is a benefit to the community; it's a benefit to the prisoners; it's a benefit to the employees." 
Norfolk County Sheriff Clif­ford Marshall is in line for $25,000 in art money because of a renovation project and an ad­ditional $100,000 because of new construction. 
page 3 

Candidates vie for key positions in Congress 
Associated Press WASHINGTON--Congress is preparing for a final fling at the ballot box--this time to elect its own leaders for the next two years. The jobs at stake range from leadership in the Senate to the­second and third positions in the line of succession to the presidency of the United States. With Democrats expanding their control of both the Senate and the House in last Tuesday's election, no upheavals will take place in party control of the 101st Congress and all of its committees. Democratic leaders keep their majority status; Republican leaders remain minority leaders. Only a few of the leadership spots are contested, topped by the fight to succeed Robert Byrd of West Virginia as Sen­ate majority leader. Byrd will step down from top party lead­ership to succeed John Stennis of Mississippi as Senate presi­dent pro tempore, a largely ceremonial job that is third in the line of succession to the presidency, behind the vice president and speaker of the House. Jim Wright of Texas is cer­tain to return for his second term as speaker of the House of Representatives--a position voted on by all House members but held by the majority party. Three men want the powerful Senate majority leader post-­Daniel Inouye of Hawaii, Ben­nett Johnston of Louisiana and George Mitchell of Maine. Their campaigns have been confined to quiet cloakroom conversations, with a rule of thumb being that the less said publicly, the better. Inouye broke the public silence among the three candidates earlier this month to sayhe expects to win on the second ballot. 


Virus 
continued from page 1 
Cooper urges students· with questions ·and problems con­cerning computer viruses to call the computing center in the Computer Math Building. "We provide services that can check, eradicate and vaccinate 
computer  systems  for  
viruses," said Cooper.  
Cooper recommends  a  few  

ways to best avoid a computer virus attack. "I tell students to always buy software from reli­able sources like computer stores," said Cooper. He also suggests that students use floppy disks instead of hard dis­ks, since viruses do more damage to the larger and more complex hard disks. 
Although Notre Dame's com­puter network contracted the virus rather late, in compari­son to other college campuses throughout the country, Cooper foresees the "n virus" crisis as the first of many battles against viruses. He perceives these products of malicious programmers as inevitable. 
"Human nature is such that this is just the beginning of the problem. Many viruses just haven't made it here yet. For many programmers, it's an ego trip to develop effective viruses." 

~--·---------------------­
page 4 The Observer Monday, November 14, 1988 
Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
Introducing the new B. M. 0. C.-the big­gest Macintosh on campus: 
The Macintosh' II computer. It's the per­fect roommate for power hungry students whp do high speed computing, video pro­cessing, engineering or graphic design. 
Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II is the fastest, best performing Macintosh ever built. Yet with all its sophistication, it still has the same point-and-click simplicity that Macintosh has become famous for. 
Which means, ofcourse, the Macintosh II and you will be the perfect roommates: It cooks. And you up. 
The power 
to be ® your besf 


Monday, November 14, 1988 The Observer pageS 

CoL Guy Francois, right, holds the coffin of CoL Jean 



Baltic states show benefits, dangers of Gorbachev's plan 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Three tiny republics on the Soviet Union's western fringe are showing Mikhail Gorbachev's Kremlin the benefits of its new reform policies, but also the dangers of loosened central control and greater local initiative. 
Mter the 1939 Hitler-Stalin pact deeded control over Es­tonia, Latvia and Lithuania to the Kremlin, the Russians kept a tight grip on the three mini­states. along the Baltic Sea. 
But President Gorbachev, the Communist Party chief since March 1985, is promoting more local autonomy in a bid to revive the stagnant national economy. 
Moscow's relaxed embrace and greater tolerance for local initiative and opinion may have let the genie out of the bottle in the nationalistic, prickly Hal­tics, with unforeseen conse­quences for the Westward­looking republics and for the multi-ethnic nation as a whole. 
"We have been reduced to the level of slaves in a manor," 
'"$ -~ 

f 
l:~tionlng the cause of death 
one Estonian, Enno Petts, com­plained during October's or­ganizational meeting of the People's Front, an independent group seeking more say for Es­tonians over their own affairs. 
As a sign of Kremlin concern over rising disaffection in the Baltics, three members of the ruling party Politburo flew there last week. In remarks re­ported by Soviet media, they promised increased economic and cultural automony but ruled out any restoration of in­dependence, which ended for the Baltic states in 1940 when the Red Army marched in. 
"It is possible to receive in­dependence and to lose every­thing else," Politburo member Viktor Chebrikov told Es­tonians on Saturday. 
Growing clamor in the Hal­tics has focused on Gorbac­hev's blueprint for political change. Activists say the changes will annul their republics' right to secede--now recognized in theory by the 1977 Soviet Constitution--and shift economic and social control to Moscow. 
v • 
The political transformation, which also creates a new na­tional congress and a powerful presidency, leaves the republics "with fewer rights than a province of czarist Rus­sia," said the newspaper Sovietskaya Estonia, summing up complaints voiced at a recent meeting of Estonia's People's Front. 
The 60,000-member People's Front sent a telegram to the Soviet leader complaining that "these drafts are a step back­ward in the development of electoral democracy.'' 
The Latvian Peoples' Front also has rejected the proposed reforms, and an equivalent group in the third Baltic republic, the Lithuanian Restructuring Movement, plans to meet to discuss the issue. 
The Kremlin leadership needs the more productive and innovative Baltic states to spur its economic reform campaign, and the visiting Politburo members seemed at pains to ensure residents that their con­cerns are heard in Moscow. 
"'{ ,:l 

as army commander after September's military coup, Claude Paul at his funeral in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. was probably poisoned according to a medical 
CoL Paul, who was forced to retire from his position source. 
COPY EARLY 
COPY LATE 
COPY WEEKENDS 
When you need a full service copy 
shop before work or after hours. depend on Kinko"s. 
kinko•s· 
the copy center 
18187State f'loa:j2J 
271-a398 
....---THE 
THOMAS_].---. 
HITE CENTER FORLAWAND 

GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School Presents A Lecture By 
H. Richard Lamb, M.D. Univ. of Southern California 
Medical School On 
" Involuntary Treatment for the Homeless Mentally Ill?" 
Noon Room 220 Tuesday, Nov. 15 Law School Courtroom 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KI.L A FRIENDSHIR 
$25,200 PAYS 
FOR A LOT OF COLLEGE 

In the Army, while you;re training in a valuable skill, you could earn up to $25,200 for college or ap­proved vocationaJ.1echnical training through the Montgomery Gl Bill Plus the Army College Fund. That's money that could help you attend just about any educational program 
you  choose.  Talk it over  
with  your  local  Army  
Recruiter.  

SGT Robert Hackley 234-4187 
ARMY. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
· 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-­Researchers at the Indiana University Medical Center are hoping a new drug they plan to test will improve the quality of life for Alzheimer's disease vic­tims. 
The drug, Milacemide, is de­signed to "excite" sluggish brain cells of Alzheimer's vic­tims, said Dr. Hugh Hendrie, chairman of Indiana Univer­sity's department of psychia­try. 
The drug will not arrest the relentless brain disorder, but scientists are hoping it will at least slow the loss of mental control suffered by victims of the ailment. 
The drug can improve memory by stimulating a group of chemical messengers in a part of the brain associated 
with  memory  and  learning,  
doctors say.  
"It's  just  like· a  lock  and  

key," Hendrie said. "The (cell) receptor is sitting there like a little lock, and the chemical agent comes in with a particu­lar molecular structure. It fits into the lock, and it turns the lock." 
Indiana is one of a handful of medical centers in the United States chosen to test the drug on Alzheimer's patients, who suffer from a gradual memory loss that eventually leaves them helpless. 
There is no proven treatment for the disorder, which afflicts more than 2 million 
Americans. Milacemide is based on a the­


-----------------------------,f 
One Month Free  
1  Rent  
II  N.D. APT 234-6647  
II  RENT IN NOV. AND GET ONE MONTH FREE  
I  Ideal location  walking distance to school  


·L-------~~~~~~~=~~~~~~-------J 
ory developed by Graham Col­lingridge, a British researcher who found that memory cells are activated by a process in­volving a naturally occurring amino acid. 
Based on this finding, the Illinois-based Searle phar­maceutical company developed Milacemide. Given orally, it delivers an extra hel­ping of this amino acid to the 
brain, setting off  a  chemical  
chain reaction.  
Despite  its  promise,  

Milacemide's worth as a therapy for Alzheimer's remains to be proven, said Robert Frederickson, Searle's senior director for central ner­vous system research. 
"Alzheimer's is a very devastating situation and you have a lot of very desperate people out there looking for something to help them. You really don't want to create false hopes," Frederickson said. 
Such caution partly stems from medical science's disap­pointing experience with the widely publicized drug THA. 
That drug was based. on the finding that a chemical mes­senger called acetylcholine was deficient in the brains of Alzheimer's victims. THA blocks the enzyme that destroys acetylcholine. 
Although tests of THA con­tinue, it is naive to believe that major results can be achieved in this way, said Dr. Robert Terry, a prominent Alzheimer's researcher from 
the University of California at San Diego. 
The Observer


With his work spread strategically around him, search lab Saturday evening in Fitzpatrick Hall. graduate student Sandeep Phadke works in the re-
State school officials stress importance of early education 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS--Programs to help children at risk of failing in school need to start in pre-school, according to a statement released Saturday by a national group of top state school officials. 
The Council of Chief State School Officers, which is meeting here through Monday, 
said states must reach disad­
vantaged children earlier and increase parental involvement with their pre-school children. 
"The council believes the single most important invest­ment to be made in education is the provision of high-quality programs for the nation's youngest children who are 
families," the statement said. group said. 
Good early-childhood pro-New parents--particularly grams are linked to success in those with children younger school, the council said. Pre-than 2--need to be helped to "es­kindergarten programs should tablish early, supportive begin at age 3, the statement partnerships to help their said. children," they said. 
!'Parts of a fabric of early States should also support childhood education programs family roles at home, assure already exist; these parts need that formal schooling would fit to be woven together to reach with the child's early experi­all who need and want to be ences and be sensitive to the 
covered," the report said. family's culture. 
Programs must include a well-prepared staff, appropri-"The family 'curriculum' in ate adult-child ratios, sound the earliest years is more im­evaluation and programming portant than the sch~ol currie­that would fit the child's and ulum," the statement said. family's needs. "However, increasing num-. 
·"Public policy must incor-hers of families need assis­porate the best of what we tance in providing experiences know about caring for and which lead to positive develop­


~r~h~tt~ d~;thg,yoh~~·~h·s~iof~fdi7~ 
Associated Press 

HAMMOND, Ind.-Three people were found shot to death early Saturday in a burning home in what police believe 
may be a drug-related crime. 

Firefighters were called to 
thetwo-story,framehousejust north of downtown shortly after 6:30a.m. 
The bodies of David Rowe 
and his common-law wife, Julia 
HOStage. 
continued from page 1 

the head of a Lebanese hostage," said Goksel. 
"Finnish soldiers immedi­ately jumped on him and subdued him," Goksel said in a telephone interview from 
UNIFIL headquarters in south Lebanon. 
Ann Davis, both 22, were found with relatives, police said. inside their home. The third "We're looking into a possi­body, a white male in his early ble drug connection, that there 
20s, was not immediately iden-may have been some drug traf­tified because it was burned ficking at that location," said beyond recognition, police Hammond Detective Lt. Mike 
said. · Solan on Saturday night. 
Two of the couple's children, 
1-year-oldHeatherand3-year-Fire.Batallion Chief Harry old Dillon, were found crying Andre said the house was but unharmed on the front gutted by the blaze, which porch of the burning home by started in a bedropm and a neighbor. A third child lives burned through the roof. 
and was working on a water release them to Fatah officials pumpneartheoutpostwhenhe on Monday. was taken captive, officials In a separate incident, Is-said. raeli troops caught three heav-
U.N. officials said the Pales-ily armed Palestinian guerril­
tinians told them they belonged las after wounding them in a 
to Yasser Arafat's Fatah fac-
~base the said. 
Monday, November 14, 1988 
U.S. anti-drug efforts ineffective 
Associated Press annual spending about $10 mil­lion in each country. Spending 
WASHINGTON--Bolivian by the Drug Enforcement farmers brought three times as Agency and drug-related much new land under coca cui-spending by the Agency for In­tivation in 1987 as the govern-ternational Development in ment of. that country erad-both countries add $15.6 million icated under an agreement a year. with the United States, con-A voluntary coca eradication gressional investigators said. program wiped out 2,570 acres 
Widespread corruption in in 1987 and early 1988, "an all­Bolivia and the violence of the time high for Bolivia," but an drug lords in Colombia, along estimated 8,150 acres were with greatly increased cultiva-brought under cultivation, tion, have rendered U.S. State making the total about 100,000 Department anti-drug pro-acres, the report said. grams in those countries inef-"Bolivian narcotics interdic­fective, investigators for the tion efforts during 1987 were General Accounting Office even less impressive since only 
wrote in a report last week. 2 percent of the coca paste 
GAO did not examine the pro-produced in Bolivia was seized, grams of the Drug Enforce-in addition to 148 kilograms ment Agency in Bolivia and (326 pounds) of cocaine," the Colombia. GAO report said. 
Colombia is the world's larg-Colombia has made a notable est producer of cocaine, which effort to combat coca cultiva­is made from the coca leaf, and tion and processing and has the source of 75 percent of the been the most cooperative of 
U.S. supply. Production all Andean countries but was capacity for 1987 was esti-unable to prevent farmers mated by the State department from increasing coca area at 143 tons. Bolivia is the from 38,300 acres in 1985 to second-ranking producer with 61,800 acres in 1987, GAO wrote. capacity of 99 tons. Colombian-eradication fell 
State Department anti-drug from 4,940 acres in 1985 to 1,140 expenditures in the two acres in 1987, though seizures countries will have totaled $106 of laboratories nearly doubled million by the end of the cur-from 725 to 1,360 in the same rent fiscal year, with current time. 
~------------•-...
I \
1 ··-.--. · I 
I ijfiiiiifi!iiiiii--lili;iliii~ii~~ I
I I 
I 1
I I 
1 "MEATBALL MoNDAY" I 
1..-•$•.•S•O_O_f•f-•l••,·,•O_R_l_B·,,-M-E•A•T-B•A-L•L-I1I
1 
4
•

I SUB 1
I I 
I _DON'T FORGET 1OTH INNING SPECIAL I
I 

. EVERYDAY AFTER 10PM INCH SUB, I
I CHIPS AND LARGE DRINK $4.25 1 
I I
1 1 
1 271-0 SUB
I II 
-1636 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE 
\ 1 
..._ _______________, 

tion: 

LEARN ABOUT THE NEWEST AND MOST VERSATILE FOREIGN
Reports from Beirut said the 
gunmen were turned over to 
STUDIES PROGRAM.•.
the Shiite Moslem militia Amal 
THE SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD ALL ND/SMC UNDERGRADUATES ARE ELIGIBLE. GENERAL INFORMATION MEETINGS: 
SMC: 7:00PM 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 
14 
CAMELIAN ROOM, HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER ND: 7:00PM 


WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 16 MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUOITORIUM 





Monday, November 14, 1988 


Murder suspect turns himself in 
Associated Press 
LAFAYETTE, Ind.--David Ohm, the second suspect in the Oct. 19 murders of two elderly Tippecanoe County men, was in custody Sunday after surprising authorities. 
Ohm, 20, walked into the state police post north of West Lafayette early Saturday mor­ning and was being held in Tip­pecanoe County Jail without bond, officials said. 
Ohm was taken to the jail after talking for nearly two hours with a lawyer, Edward Kennedy. The lawyer said someone from his firm, Heide, Sandy, Deets and Kennedy, would represent the Lafayette resident, but declined to com­ment further. 
Ohm also met briefly with state police Detective Sgt. Herb Clear, who is in charge of the murder investigation. Ohm refused to talk about where he was since the killings or about the murders, Clear said. 
Ohm and Bryan Brown, 21, also of Lafayette, are accused 
• 


)DU pnme.. 
Northern Trust Bank, ofChicago, is one 
of the nation's leading financial insti­
tutions, well known for our blend of 
sound financial principles and innova­.tive products. 
If your graduation is slated for Spring 
'89 and you are interested in a career. 
in COMMERCIAL BANKING or 
TRUST... Plan NOW to attend our pre· 
sentation and · ,~ 
reception on Northern Trust Bank 
TUESDAY, NO· VEMBER 15th, in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn at 7:00pm. Let your grad­uation welcome the end of a job search, not the beginning of one. Contact the Placement Office for details. College Recruiting Department, NORTHERN TRUST BANK, 50S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, IL 60675. An Equal Op­portunity Eruployer M/F. 
• 

of murdering Lewis McKay, 80, and his neighbor, John Ross, 71. The victims were killed in McKay's rural Tippecanoe County home. 
Autopsies revealed the men were severely beaten and their throats were slashed. Police believe robbery motivated the killings. 
Brown was arrested Oct. 27 in Annandale, Va., by FBI agents and returned to Tip­pecanoe County, where he is being held without bond. Police speculated that Ohm fled south about five days after the mur­ders, when he learned that he was wanted for questioning about the killings. 
Brown and Ohm are being held in separate areas of the jail, police said. 
Ohm arrived at the state police post Saturday with an­other man, whom Clear identi­fied as Michael Collins, a high school friend of Ohm's. Clear said he did not know how and where Ohm and Collins had met up. 
No 





Trust Bank Considers 

The Observer page 7 
i(;l; 
The Observer1 Don Pa;;­
Stay posted 

in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering.
Preparing for the future, senior Tom Pavlik checks out graduate schools and engineering opportunities 
LA drug-dealers still roam streets 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES--Drug­dealing gang members are murdering in record numbers despite police sweeps and the mayor's pledge to "take these terrorists off the streets." 
But authorities insist the bat­tle is being won in target areas such as south-central Los An­geles and say those successes are not reflected in the num­bers. 
Police Department figures show gang-related homicides rose threefold in October com­pared with the same month last year, from 11 to 33. For the year through Oct. 31, they were up nearly 25 percent, from 166 in 1987 to 207. 
This year's total already sur­passes the record 205 gang kil­lings for all of 1987. 
In Los Angeles County areas where the sheriff enforces the law, 79 gang-related murders were recorded by late October, matching the total for all of 
1987. 
. Meanwhile, crack-dealing Crips and Bloods, the deadliest gangs in the nation's second­largest city, continue to sur­face in towns and cities across the western United States. 
"We aren'tlosingthew~r, we just aren't winning in the data," department spokesman Cmdr. William Booth said Friday. However, Booth conceded, "The data does tell us we are a long way from win­ning the war." 
In April, Mayor Tom Brad­ley, a former police lieutenant, vowed during the first 1,000­officer gang task force sweep, "We are going to take these ter­rorists off the streets of Los An­geles." • 
More than 21,000 people, 12,000 of them gang members, have been arrested by the de­partment's gang task force since February, most of them during the highly publicized 
PLO 
continued from page 1 
cepting the verdict of the 
majority without . any hard 
feelings." 
The 450-member Palestinian 
council began meeting Satur­
day and is expected to conclude 
on Tuesday with a declaration 
of independence for the West 
Bank and Gaza Strip . 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harv'tlrd's Two-Year Master's 
Program in Public Policy, Leading to either · the Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
JOINT DEGREE OPTIONS AND CROSS-REGISTRATION OPPORTUNITIES WITH OTHER SCHOOLS 
MEET WTIH A KENNEDY SCHOOL REPRESENTATNE 
DATE: NOVEMBER 15 
TIME: 4 :00-5:30 GROUP SESSION 
PLACE: PLEASE CONT ACf YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
FOR THIS INFORMATION 
All Students, All MoJors, All Years Welcome/ 
sweeps, including one Satur­day night that netted more than 175 people. Police said they do not know how many arrests resulted in convictions. 
Next year's mayoral race be­tween Bradley and his ex­pected challenger, Councilman Zev Yaroslavsky, will cer­tainly put the focus on gangs again. 
"Crime is the No. 1 issue on everyone's mind;" Yaros­lavsky said Friday. "The gangs in the city have become the purveyor of drugs to the na­tion." 
U.S. Drug Enforcement Ad­ministration, FBI and Customs agents recently joined the Police Department and Sheriff's Department in the gang battle. "The Los Angeles drug problem is not just a local problem. Federal intervention is absolutely essential," Yaros­lavsky said. 
In all previous meetings, the council has expFcitly rejected Resolution 242. 
Those opposed to Resolution 242 objected to its referring to the future of Palestinians in the occupied territories as "a just settlement of the refugee prob­lem." 
The Algiers conference was called to deal with the new· developments in the Middle East. 
Dorm quota system: 
Afew nights ago, we were sitting hap­threatened by a policy which will tear 
pliy at a hall council meeting for our apart our "family." The worst is that 
dorm. Like most students on campus, we may not be able to room with the 
we think our dorm is the greatest. So roommates we have chosen. 
imagine our surprise when it was an­We have a few questions for the 
nounced that the Office of Student people who decided to implement this 
Residences had enacted a new housing brilliant policy: How would you like it 
policy which strikes at the heart of Uni­if your son or daughter were suddenly 
versity life--the "family" atmosphere. forced out of his or her dorm? Taken 
away from his or her friends with no

Julie Scharfenberg guarantee of being placed with other 
friends? Faced with the possibility of

Julie Bennett 
getting the roommate from hell during 

guest column his or her junior or senior year? 
The administration has persisted in 
making serious mistakes. First there 

What? You say you haven't heard or was the SYR!Alcohol policy fiasco. this policy? Well, let us tell you about Then it moved on to-cause the freshmen it. This new policy may have a drastic football ticket disaster. Now, on top of impact on you. The Office of Student it all, they shove a new residential Residences has put into effect a quota policy at us. What is happening to that system to "eliminate the necessity of beautiful family image the University placing incoming freshmen in tempo­so carefully constructed in its view­rary housing." Under the new policy, books and information packets? We are the rectoDtectress of each dorm is re­appalled at the fact it has become mere quired to block off 25 percent of the propaganda. We had expected more dorm for incoming freshmen. If return­from an administration supposedly ing students comprise more than 75 per­committed to creating a Christian en­cent of a particular dorm, one of two vironment of love, trust and friendship. things will happen: returning students Did the Office of Student Residences will have the "option" of transferring realize that there are other alternatives to another dorm with "leftover" space to solving this problem? for the upperclassmen. If this is not suc­First, admit less freshmen. The Of­cessful in creating the required 25 per­fice of Undergraduate Admissions has cent, students will be placed in a lot­failed to recognize the effect a winning tery. The winners get to stay in their football season has on the matriculation own dorms. The losers are forced out. rate. 
The Office of Admissions has consis­Second, put freshmen wherever there tently underestimated the matricula­is room. This solves the problem of tem­tion rate for several years, resulting in porary housing. A disproportionate an overabundance of incoming fresh­number of freshmen in a given dorm is men. But is that a reason to forcibly not damaging because they are adjust­relocate students, who have formed ing to a new living situation anyway. close friendships in their dorms and11 Why uproot the returning students and who were guaranted on~campus force us to readjust too? This would be housing? No student we have talked t11 requiring us to go through another thinks so, but student opinion does not freshman year at a time when we are seem to matter to the administration-­making crucial choices for our future. as has been proven in the past. Are we Instead of limiting confusion, the new paying $14,000 a year to cover someone policy will increase it on all levels. else's mistakes? The third and best solution, and the 
One of the main reasons we came to one most roundly ignored, is to leave Notre Dame was the appeal of its the situation alone. This type of situa­unique residential life. We liked the tion will ultimately correct itself. There idea of the University as an extended will be students who switch dorms on family and our hallmates as our imme­their own. Why disrupt the lives of those diate family. We were assured that the who are happy where they are? Direct lack of fraternities and sororities would proportion does not lend itself to a not hinder the formation of close-knit happy environmept. friendships; in fact, it has helped them. The new policy IS in effect. Yes, once We have developed many close again your opinion has not mattered. friendships at Notre Dame, especially Now is the time to stand up. We pay to within our dorm, which has been better attend this University. We pay to have than any sorority. Now all that is our opinions matter. We are paying to 
Doonesbury 
OUR FR85HMAN CLASS IS THe
weRe. 

5MAUEST IT'S BE3&N IN YeARS. INGAN89 
PRQJ~­

ANOtue CAN'T FIU-!TUP WITH­IJtFJOTOF 0 · 
OUT toWl3RJNG CKJR APM/55/0N 

5TANDA!?.05 &VCN FURTHeR STAN, HOW IS 
V~R s5 MIUJON'r 

THAN We ALR!3AOY HAV£3! 7HIS POSS/81£? 
~ 
\P!I!II!I.._ 


Viewpoint
page a Monday, November 14, 1988 
yet another mistake 
have our lives disrupted. It is time for for your own sake, don't be silent or this to stop. Start now by writing to the your number may (or may not) come Director of Student Residences. The up next spring. student publications are also good Julie Scharfenberg is a sophomore gov­places to voice your opinion. Don't for­ernment!ALPA major, and Julie Ben­get to ask parents and alumni for their nett is a junior government/English letters, calls and support as well. But major. 
I. P.O. Box Q 
Fat Boys skit harms our community 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing concerning the Fat Boys parody in the Sorin Hall Talent Show. Regardless of its intent, the parody was offensive to many, both blacks and non­blacks, in the University comml,mity. Moreover, it is a reminder to all of us of the need to continually address the issues of ethnic and racial insensitivity as well as that of blatant racism. 
In any academic community civility and human behavior are basic to the good order of the community. These characteristics provide a critical con­text for teaching, scholarship, and quality living. In a place like Notre Dame which is rooted in gospel values and the Catholic tradition, expectations necessarily supersede the minimal re­quirements and standards of the law and basic good order. 
Racial slurs in any form or forum are antithetical to the values of the Univer­sity. Further, they are nothing short of harassment and degrading to the whole community. Harassment in any form is a serious violation of the expectations of this academic community. The ab­sence of ill-will does not mitigate the hurt caused to others or the insen­sitivity of the behavior. 
The attitudes reflected in racially in­sensitive or racist behavior are much more difficult to change than the be­havior itself. Nonetheless, attitude change will be essential to the eradica­tion of racism on the campus, in our· nation, and in the world. Communica­tion and collaboration are key elements in altering perceptions and attitudes. Each of us should look for opportunities to increase communication and share experiences with persons of differing cultural and racial heritages. Taking advantage of the activities offered in this Year of Cultural Diversity would be a good beginning for some. Construc­tive dialogue in the residence halls would also be a good beginning for others. 
No one likes to be degraded, espe­cially in the name of entertainment or someone else's fun. I share the deep regrets of many for what was offensive and hurtful to the black members of our community. 
David T. Tyson, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs Nov. 13, 1988 
Grad School Nite set for Tuesday 
Dear Editor: 
Is there life after college? Although many undergraduates think not, life after graduation poses more questions and possibilities than ever before. Recognizing the overwhelming variety of choices facing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates, student govern­ment, the senior class, the Graduate Student Union and the Alumni Associ­ation are sponsoring the first annual "Graduate School Night" on Tuesday, Nov. 15, from 7 -9 p.m. in Theodore's. Of course, refreshments will be served. 
Graduate School Night is an opportu­nity for all undergraduates to explore the possibility of graduate school. Rep­resentatives of Notre Dame's Law, M.B.A., Humanities, Social Science, Engineering, and Science graduate schools will be on hand to offer advice and information. Questions on testing, applications, finances, and any other concerns will be answered by graduate students from almost thirty different departments. 
Graduate school is an option that many of Notre Dame's students even­tually take. So why not stop by Theodore's between 7 and 9 tomorrow night, grab a snack, and get a jump on the graduate school game? 
Mike Carrigan Pat Cooke Graduate-Undergraduate Committee Nov. 10, 1988 
Garry Tiudeau 
IAJ£:31).., CURRENTLY IA/8PON'TAC:::­c:&PT ANYON/3. 
IA/17H A CRJ/11­/N~ R&aJR[?. 
'\ 

Campus Quote 
"In your passage through this university -the explo­ration, the testing, the reaching -you are making the kind of commitments that will help you wherever you go." 
Bruce Babbit 9/23/88 

-Ih-e-Obse.~~--Editorial Board Operations Board
---. ------A-=Y~'-'&---­
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager ............................ John Oxrider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Managing Editor....... . ....... Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor . . . . . . . . ............. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ............... Unda Goldschmidt News Editor.... . ................ Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager... ............... Bernadene Shins 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor .............. ................ Mat1 Slaughter Systems Manager . . . . . . . . . . ..... Mark Ridgeway Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor................... . ........ Marty Strasen Controller... ..................................... Todd Hardiman the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .. . . . .. . . .. .. . . . . . . . . ........ Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager . ....................... Marga Bruns possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor.. . ................. Michael Moran space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through le11ers. is encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 

Accent
Monday, November 14, 1988 page 9 


T 
he short man, pla,gued with a nose resembling that of Jamie Farr, shuffles into a small classroom con­taining four others in the same predicament: coping with divorce and separation. Louise, the group leader, asks another man to stand up and talk about himself. He con­fesses that he is an alcoholic. "We've all been in that bar," Louise replies and then indi­cates the Alcoholics Anonymous meeting is across the hall. "Emotionally shat­tered this way; lushes to the left." 
John, Kate, and Louise pay Ralph a visit. Kirk enters saying, "You look like you lost your best friend ... Sounds like you are under a curse or something." Kate tells Ralph to think pleasant thoughts about his past. Ralph tells his friends a story about the time he took his small camper and went on a long trip. The trip turned to disaster when some "punks" pushed the camper down a hill with Ralph in the bathroom. "Have you ever been trapped for two days, upside down in a toilet?" John buys Ralph a new razor and 
NATE FITZGERALD accent writer 
H 
abitat for Humanity seeks to eventually eliminate ramshackle housing and homelessness with a simple formula. Combine the forces of volunteer labor and low­income families to construct affordable housing for deserv­ing hard-working families. 
Kevin Mundy, a Notre Dame senior, began working with the South Bend affiliate of Habitat last spring, and now heads the campus chapter of Habitat. Kevin always had an 
interest in carpentry and con­struction, and working with Habitat provided an outlet for these skills. 
During his eight weeks working at a Habitat project in North Philadelphia, Kevin saw that Habitat for Humanity would fit in well at Notre Dame. Students could volunteer their time on Satur­days to be a part of thjs gras­sroots movement to build decent homes for these hard­working people. 
The campus chapter now has about 20 members who have worked on the South 
Student volunteers work to provide affordable housing 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Ql( BVT OOWT BRE!>-K IT 
GEE7., W\\'1 t>.NO OOI'il PEEL 11-\E PP.PER 
[X)t·lf '(OIJ 01=1', ~>!{() COLOR \'l\1\4 />.4.. 
1/>.',(.E 0\JT f.N S\I)ES Of IT SO \I S\1•;{<; 
\~S\JR('.I~CE 
FQINI'( 'iDLIC'i 
ON If? 
Bend affiliate's house on three separate workdays this fall. Groups from campus, includ­ing students from ROTC, the band, and the Stanford Hall, have also helped on the workdays, doing anything from putting up vinyl siding to building a retension wall to prevent erosion. 
Charlie Maher, a senior who has helped in the renova­tion of the South Bend af­filiate's house on South St. Joseph's Street, said, "It's nice to see something accom­plished by the end of the day." 
Charlie helped put up vinyl siding on one side of the house that will be owned by Betsy and Larry Osborne. To own the house, the Osbournes will pay a no-interest mortgage to the South Bend affiliate of Habitat. The kev factor is that they also have to put in 500 hours of "sweat equity" as payment for their home. The Osbournes will work 250 hours on the renova­tion of their house, and will work the remaining 250 hours on the next project by the South Bend affiliate. Betsy Os­bourne describes this as their "partnership with Habitat." 

The Osbourne's were in a seemingly hopeless situation before they were introduced to a Habitat representative. Thier son, Ricky, is a victim of Klipel Feil syndrome and Sleep Apnea, disorders re­quiring that he be taken to Riley's Childrens Hospital in Indianapolis once a month for checkups. The medical bills that the Osbourne's have are so large that they would not be able to own decent housing without Habitat. 
"Our payments would be triple in the normal housing market," said Betsy Os­bourne. "We don't know what we'd do without them (Habitat), the students com­ing out and working is fantas­tic." 
She added that she is 
definitely going to continue 
working with Habitat after 
they have completed their 
hours. " I'm completely sold 
on it," she said. 
The key to Habitat," said 
Mundy, " is that it's not 
sheer charity. After having 
committed the hours, we are 
insured that we will get re­
sponsible and dependable 
people." 

Mundy says that ideally, he would like to have the mem­bership of Habitat up to about 40 so that he could take ten people out to the worksite each weekend and each per­son would only have to volun­teer once a month. If the South Bend affiliate has a lag in workdays, members of the Notre Dame chapter can also work at sites in LaPorte or Elkhart, or help with fundraising for the South 
Bend affiliate. 
Habitat was founded 12 
years ago by Millard Fuller 
in Americus, Georgia. The 
houses usually cost an 
average of $25,000 to $30,000, 
built from the ground up, or 
undergo renovation as in the 

case of the South Bend house. 
By providing a way for people to help themselves, Habitat is successfully working to eliminate ram­shackle housing in America and around the world. 

JOE BUCOLO 

.,

To Be Continued 
... v"h 
#.i;~ 

Such is a typical scene in 
NBC's outrageous new com­
edy "Dear John," which airs 
on Thursdays at 9:30. The 
show situates itself around 
One-Two-One, a support 
group for divorced and 
separated people. John's 
(Judd Hirsch) wife walks out 
on him and leaves him a note 
to that effect--hence the 
show's title. John attends a 
One-Two-One meeting where 
he meets the show's other 
regulars Ralph (Harry 
Groener), Kate (Isabella Hof­
mann), and Kirk (Jere 
Burns). 
It isn't long before the four are sharing their deepest secrets with each other and their director Louise (Jane Carr). Ralph, who personifies the word "nerd," tells about his friend who recently had an eye removed. Still uncom­fortable with the group and not knowing what to say, Kate replies, "Was there something wrong with it?" "No," John replies sarcasti­cally. "He did it for cosmetic reasons." Kirk, a self­proclaimed "stud," asks if John keeps in touch with his "ex." "Only by check," replies John. Louise's question of each of the group members is the same: "Were there any sexual problems?" 
In another episode, Ralph fears he's a victim of a strange Egyptian curse since 
·his turtle died and his razor 
broke. Only knowing that 
Ralph is depressed, Kirk, decides to try it out. He acci­dentally drops it into the aquarium, which contains two new turtles. Louise peers into the tank and declares, "I'm not an expert on turtles, but these look somewhat dead. " 
The cast is very talented and realistic in portraying the characters; however, the writers are the cause for the sparkle in this gem of a com­edy. The comic situations and one-liners make even the most stern of audience mem­bers laugh. 
"Dear John" is a welcome addition to NBC's strong Thursday night lineup. It is a creative show to which its audience can relate. While inviting her group to a party, Louise says, "There will be other people such as your­selves. Granted, that doesn't sound like much of an induce­ment. " Louise couldn't be more wrong. It's a great in­ducement for viewers to tune in ... and they do. 
Stay Tuned: The oldest of NBC's "The Golden Girls," Sophia will march down the aisle in an upcoming episode. The entire cast of "The Brady Bunch" will re-unite for "A Very Brady Christmas," which will air on CBS this Christmas. On the same note, a "Hart to Hart" reunion movie is in its plan­ning stages. Stephanie Powers, who played Jennifer Hart, wrote the script, which is currently undergoing revi­sions. 
Bill Watterson 
BLACK \30.RS 
GWE \<\E IITI/>.CK\1'\G f>... 
\<\'1 C'KNiot-\ 
Bli>-CK \VKEST 
Bt\CK. c.At<\PG\bV!'-10 
l>.T 1'-\ID~IG\\T. 

r.----·---------------­
page 1 0 The Observer Monday, November 14, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Morrissey Manor's David Fischer, Jeff Thompson and Alex Derchak placed ninth in the relay division of the Bud Light United States Tri­athlon Series National Championship in Hilton Head, S.C., last weekend. They completed the course--consisting of a 1.5-kilometer swim, 40­kilometer bike ride and 10-kilometer run--in 2:01.50. -The Observer 
A self-paced swim program will be offered by Non-Varsity Athletics. An organizational meeting will be held tonight at 9 in the classroom at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Students must register prior to the meeting at the NVA office in the JACC. For information, call NVA at 239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
"Do It Again" successfully defended its Saint Mary's co-ed flag football championship with a 40-0 win in last Thursday's championship game. The two-time champions have an 11-0 record in two years of play. -The Observer 
TheSMCturkeytrotwilltake place Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. Partici­pants can choose from a five-mile run, a three-mile run or a 1.5-mile walk. A $1 entry fee is due at 5 
p.m. Tuesday at the Angela Athletic Facility. The trot is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, faculty, staf(and administrators. -The Ob­server 
The SMC intramural racquetball doubles tournament for all Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff has and entry deadline of 5 p.m. Thursday at the Angela Athletic Facility. Participants will schedule matches on their own following the timeline established. For more information, call 284-5549. -The Observer 
The Synchronized Swim Club is holding practices on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and on Sundays from 11:15 a.m. to 12:15 
p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is wel­come. Any questions should be directed to Tara at x3867, Katie at x2646 or Ann at x1294. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
L 

If you need a nde lo Columbus this weekend--call X42051 
ACAOEMICflUSINESS TYPING 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 2:n-7009. 
Yog1's Yogurt, Now delivenng-Mon. Tues Helpl Need ride to PITT or CENTRAL PA. for THANKS BREAK. Will share ex­penses. Can leave Wednesday. Karen x4041 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04-Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
I need a ride to Cleveland area for Thanks. $$$ BARB x4842 
FOR SALE 
'B5 hobie cat 16 w1railer,many e><tras call 1B6B I WILL DO ANYTHING FOR A SET Ot­4 PENN G.A.'S. MY BROTHER IS COUNTING ON ME. DONT LET HIM DOWN, CALL TIM 2B3-1616 
Penn St stud tix best offer by 11114 217­4B60 tom 
NEED PENN ST. STU. TIX. CALL JULIE X1271 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's and 1 STUD. CALL TONY A11089. 
MY PARENTS ARE COMING All THE WAY FROM SOUTH AMERICA FOR THE GAME. I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PENN GAME THEY WILL PAY YOUR TUITION ... CALL RAUL OR CHRIST AT 1B73 

Plese helpl I need 3 stud PENN ST tix. Call Ellen 4012. 
NEED PENN ST STUD OR GA'SII CALL ROB 271-B323 
TWO SEASON BASKETBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL KEN 312-844-7236. 
I have ONE USC ticket lor sale. Sect. 7, Row 32, Seat 11 Call Ed at X3271 and leave offer ! 
I NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S AND 1 STUD CALL JULIE 284-5440 
CHICAGO ALUMNI-WILL PAY TOP$$ FOR A PAIR OF PENN ST. GA'S CALL (312) 403-2659 
FREE BEERI(or Cash$) for 1 PENN STATE tik. PLEASE call Bnan at x1714! 
SANKOFA SANK OFA SANKOFA SANKOFA SANK OFA 
HEY· IF YOU WERE AT HASBROOK'S AND ROONEY'S TOWNHOUSE FOR THE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION ON 
lv.i (SATURDAY) AND YOU KNOW WHO SWIPED OUR REMOTE CON­TROL FOR THE T.V., CAll US AT 277­7260 OR WE'll NEVER HAVE THE SAME CROWD OVER AGAIN. IF YOU HAD A LOT OF FUN LIKE'. WE 010, PLEASE HELP US OUT OR WE'll LOSE THE SHIRTS OFF OF OUR BACKS TRYING TO GET ANOTHER OH, YEAH. Pm CLUB BUS SIGNUPS WILL BE HELD ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. PITT CLUB BUS SIG· NUPS PITT CLUB BUS SIGNUPS 
CONSIDERING GRADUATE SCHOOL? GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT 
TUESDAY· NOVEMBER 15 THEODORE$ • 7-9 PM 
DO YOU HAVE QUESnONS ABOUT GRADUATE SCHOOL? WE HAVE THE ANSWERS!!"' 
NOVEMBER 15 AT THEOOORES 7:00-9:00 P.M. 

• 
& Thurs. nights. Colombo Yogurt 7-9:30 for sale: 1 plane tix:SB to Newark 11122· Rednecks need 1 student and 2 GA's for ONE .... CAll US. Chubby-a mind ia a terrible thing. or so call-217-4337. 1112B· I'll sell at cost call II 2B98 or 288-Penn State game. Call Bosephus at 3157 PERSONALS you seem to say. Jeff-thank you. I never 9402 or 3155. Needed 2 Penn State Tix thought people could persecute others call 284-5545 for a 1st an>dmt right. a female Idealist. UNITED FLIGHT TICKET: THANKSGIV­New Jersey devil also needs Penn State N.D. CANDY 
FHISTORY OF JAZZ.
ING Round trip los Angeles 1 D22-1 0'28 GA's. Call Rudolph at 3155 or 3157. Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White RITA: HISTORY OF JAZZ
LOST/FOUND I 
BEST OFFER: CALL 283-3405 Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check NEED PENN ST TIX MARYx3745 to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 The Fool's very thirsty; w111 you get him
HISTORY OF JAZZ. 
SANKOFA
LOST: BLUE BOOKBAG ON MONDAY, USC PACKAGEII . S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741-a beer? If so, please leave # to place 
11-7 AT BOOKSTORE (POSSIBLY For sale. Guys only. Call Dan at 271· 133B. SANKO FA order e best dat&time. 233307 TAKEN BY MISTAKE). PLEASE CALL 075B. I NEED PENN ST STUDS CALL DAVE SANKO FA P.S. Don't reply next week: be away JIM x3559. 
2258 WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? SANK OFA 
LAST CHANCE FLIGHT TO PIT­WHAT DO THEY DO? FARLEY'S FINEST ... LOST or STOLEN: Blue back pack from TSBURGH If you need a USAir ticket to HELPI I need a stud Penn St. lik. -call COME SEE... EXPO ROMA'BB Thanks a bunch for the dais1es and for South Dining Hall on Tues. Nov. B. The Pitt, I've got the last seat. Orig. price Amy 37B9 SANK OFA a great season. name MATT AYERS was clearly on the · $19B. Call Scott x1474 before long a female student will be se­SANKO FA The lingers are healing Ill 
back pack label. If found, call 3805 with HELPIII Desparately seeking PSU tk1s.· lected lo represent NO at the bowl game. SANKOFA MC no questions asked. stu. or GA'sl! x2607 let's not embarrass ND again. let's pick SANK OFA someone with a little class who knows HISTORY OF JAZZ. LOSTI! LARGE GOLD TONE TICKETS Penn State GAs needed, # 334B $$$$$ something about the Irish. HISTORY OF JAZZ. Lancelot thou art a fool to think so much BRACELET AT 81B GRACE ON OCT SANK OFA with tiny tool Useth thou thy bigger head 2B. CALL ERIC AT X3883111 NEED 3 STUD TICKETS FOR PENN UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277-9889 Lest thy flirtation make thee deed Arthur NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE STATE CALL ANNE II 3736 is a better man to take fair Venus by the HELPII I've lost my glasses and can not CALL SHEILA--271-9365 HEY SENIORS ... SANK OFA hand Arthur is a righteous dude but thou see to take notes In class I If you've found DESPERATE FOR TWO (2) PENN ST Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell . SANKOFA art whimpy, lewd and crude Forget thy 
a pair of pinwtose nmmed glasses in we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would be TIXII PLEASE CALL DANII X32B6. Going to an SYR is hell. SANK OFA quest and end it there And leaves! lhou brown leatherish case. please call x37B2-really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call You and I, we both know that. HISTORY OF JAZZ. the maiden fair ·my G.P.A. depends on you I Thanks. wa~er x2151 or michelle x2844 The Christmas Formal is where it's at. SANK OFA 
I NEED 4 PENNST TIX! X4000 MIKE 

SANK OFA v Found: Spnnt Fon Card near a phone in TOP$ FOR GOOD.SO. CAL SEATS. Be sure to sign-up before you leave lor A quest I make for hidden haven a place
Need two GA's lor Penn State Call Rob

LaFortune. Please call x37B2. NEED 2-6. CAll KEVIN COLLECT AT Thanksgiving... my heart has missed. A paradise of 
at II 1051 or Brian at 3234

(B05) 949-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. HO CONSIDERING GRADUATE SCHOOL? playtull passions where our hearts m1ghtLOST: Ring In Ladies Room of 
HO QUESTIONS CAN BE ANSWERED tryst. I lay to real yor restless soul. Sleep
I NEED PENN sr'&'usc'Tix'272~ SaO&

Lafortune on 1117 NEED PENN STATE G.A. & STUDENT HO AT GRADUATE SCHOOL NITE my love Be kissed GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TIX CALL DON II 272-0456 TUESDAY, NOV. 15, 19B8
$$$

Reward Reward THEODORE$ 7-9 P.M. NEED RIDE TO NYOWESTCHTR FOR Call II 2614 
I need Penn St. tixl

OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 nCKETS ONLY A GRINCH ... THANKSGIVING CAN LEAVE TUES &
Call Duane x1661

PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT would dare miss the Senior Christmas RETURNFLEXIBLECALLPAULX-1414
$$$

AFTER 5 PM 21&-833-1072 FRANCIS. dance on Dec. 2. Even little Susie Lou need a ride to exil 17 on the PA FOUND IN NOH: one ladies watch Con­Who is going ... turnpike(or anywhere close, even Pit­HEY CK--HOW'S ABOUT A UTILE tact Katie at II 4824 HELPI NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SII CALL MORGAN STANLEY NEEDS TIX TO tsburgh exit would be ok)Piease call Beth WINE AND CHEEPS? SURPRISE II 
277-1513 PENN STATE; GA'S OR STUD'S. Can anyone give me a ride to Cincinnati at X2964. I will share expenses! GENEROUS REWARD FOR RETURN 
PLEASE CAll (BOO) 223-2440 EXT. for Thanksgiving Break? Please call Jen· BIF, CATH, CHRIS, HULIO OF TWO SMALL GOLD (SMAll DIA· PLEASE I NEED 4 TO 6 GAS FOR PENN 6971, FOR DAN. nifer at x212B. THE ULTIMATE ILLUSION Stuart and JEAN-MARIE and PITA 
MONO) RINGS LOST AT NO FOOT· BAll GAME OCT. 22, 1988. PLEASE CAll COLLECT 219-1188-2544.  $$ NO OBJECT PLEASE CALL DAVE AT X 227511  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CAll nM AT 412-343-4293.  MATH TUTOR· 234-3878.  Lori The MAGIC is the MOMENT Stuart and  Thanks for making this sick Siegfned girl feel lots better. You guys are greatllove, the invalid.  
································································  I NEED PENN STATE TIX STUD OR  Lori  
... _, FORRENT Rent a Computer for the school year or for that special prQjeCt. Macintosh or IBM. 674-5973 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291·7153.  GA,--3 JIM 1935 I need penn state tickets. call at 277­6224. I need 2 USC tickets Please help me out if you have any. Call Bob at x3647. NPenn State GA's in a BIG WAYI! Call Molly X1321.  NEED 4 USC TIX PLEASE CALL 3570 For sale: 2 Penn St stud tix. Best offer by 11-15 leave offer 277-729B I need psu tixs $$$ Kevin 1 024 Hello. We need Penn State tix GA or student. Call 348B. Goodbye.  CONECT!WESTCHSTR & ROCKLND CTS. XMAS BUS TRIP $90 Sign up and deposit Monday & Tuesday, 14 & !5, 5:30.6:30 Lafortune Lobby near Info. Oesk "John Blasi Ia a male slut." 11-T.C.  Illusion is the ultimate reality Stuart and Lori WANT TO SEE THE WORLD? GO ON THE SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD!I! VISIT 15 COUNTRIES IN ASIA AND EUROPE, STUDY IN INDIA AND GET 16 CREDITS FAll OF 19B9. GENERAL INFORMATION  HEY CHRIS WHITE Ills it possible? THE BIG SWIG has satisfied us more than you ever couldl Maybe you will NEVER get it backl CHORALE CHORALE NO CHORALE IN CONCERT  •  I I  
Furnished Rooms a 2 Bedroom home near cempua.272-6308 FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND. AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES­ PLEASE HELP MElli I need 6 PENN STATE student tix or GA's Please call Teek at 288-9303 anytime. NEED penn GA x-3100•  PLEASEI I NEED 3 PENN ST TIX. JOE X1728 FOR SALE CHEAPI ONE WAY PLANE TICKET:South Bend to Boston, Wed.Nov 23,6:45 pm. CALL:277-2838  24 hour Student Lounge is OPENIIIl.o­cated in the OaK Room South Dining Hall Ill Cincinnati anyone? Need ride for break. Will pay $$$. Call Jen # 2550  MEETING 7:00 PM WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 16 MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. AUDITIONS for the Feb. 22-25 produc­tion of the musical, "Simon" will be held at Washington Hall on Nov. 29-30 from  Tuesday November 15 B pm Sacred Heart Church  

TER. 2B7-8389 OR 683-8889. 

w~~i·· i~··· ~~i~~·-· N.o'..\vE...\Pl-i~~ 
110.00 a month.Cal~3476 
WANTED 

SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Panciera's Books BOB Howard St. Just off N.D. Ave. Phil 233-2342 
Full nme Nanny 2 Young Children Proleaalonal Child C.re Light Houae Work-Orgenlutlonal 
Skill• Excellent S.tary a Benefit Program Send Raeume To: Marlkey Cochran Design Time P.O. Box 2027 Elkhart, IN 48515 NEED PENN ST. TIX· STUD OR GA MAGS 3322. 
Need 2 Penn State GA'a. Call Shewn x2380. $$$$$ 
Need PSU tix stu or GA Call Chris at 277-7384 
I need 5 PENN ST stud tix call X3884 or X3B39 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IRISH UNCLE FINALLY OUT FOR A 
• GAME. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S, DESPERATELYII BIG BUCKS! CALL MIKE 3531, OR 320 KEENAN. 
NEED 7 PENN STATE GA'S CALL 284· 4336 
HELP! REALLY NEED 3 GAs to USC I Cecilia 4431 
DESPERATELY NEED B PENN STATE GA'S CALL TODD AT 1406 OR 1409 
I NEED Penn State STUDTIX 277-4842 Need Penn St. G.A. Tix. Call Joe at 287­4561. 
PLEASE!!-1 NEED PENN STATE TICK­ETS II CALL FRAN-II 2999 
I NEED PENN ST TIX CALL NED AT 117B 
I need two GA's for the Penn State game. Please call Melissa at 283-3090 alter 7:00PM. 
HELPIII NEED 1 PENN ST. STU. TIX. WILL PAY$$$ CALL JOHN AT X 2153. 
we·Re··oe·spe·RATE. AN·o·weALTH·v· 
NEED PENN. ST. STUDS CALL1649 
HELP!! All I need are 2 Penn St GAs Call Tina at x4846 ANYTIME II I NEED 1 PENN ST. STU OR GA­
PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN-4420 need Penn St GA. Tim3596 

Texas daughter desperately needs t· shirts, any sayings. Xmas gifts. Thanks call 259-!216. 
I need HOCKEY EQUIPMENT! If you have any you want to sell call Jack 3459 
please sell your penn state ticket; either stud or Ga call kristie 255B 
WHAT'S THE "NEW SENSAnON" AT SMC?? IT'S ERIN'S 18TH BIRTHDAY! AND, AS THE SONG GOE5-"THERE'S A SUCKER BORN EVERY MINUTE." HAPPY BIRTHOAYIII (THE AFFOR· OABLE FLOORS OFFICIAllY EN· DORSE HAMBURGER B.) •sCAPfNO· NOV.l0-11-12' 
RIDE NEEDED: TO WASHINGTON D.C AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK, CAll CHRISTY AT 284·514B SHARE $$$! 
I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y.C AREA go 11­22 ret 11-27 will share exp call Peter x2124 
6-9:30. Sign up for an audition time beforehand in the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune Questions sho"ld be directed to Rob Meffe at # 3660. 
A huge THANK YOU to everyone who 
made my 1Bth the best ever I LP, Usa, 
the Quadettes. Sarah and the rest of the 
Knott gang, the great kisser, the men of 
Cavanaugh, my social dance class, my 
German class. DANKE! 
I Love You· Alii 
SP aka Jen 
Hey ladies-­wish that StEd sweetheart a happy birthday. Chris Murdy is !8111 
THANKSGIVING BUS PITT CLUB BUS SIGNUPS Pm CLUB BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY NIGHT (TONIGHT) lP.M. COST $60 ROUNDTRIP LEAVES TUESDAY 22 AT 6P.M. LEAVES PIT­TSBURGH SUNDAY AT NOON CAll MIKE OR KEVIN AT 33221F YOU HAVE ANY QUESnONS PITT CLUB BUS SIGN UPS 
SOPHOMORES 
SOHPHOMORE MOVIE NIGHT This Wed. at Univ. Park East Go with your class to see IRON EAGL U2 RATTLE & HUM, CRYING IN THE DARK BIRD or BIG (all at 9:30) or ERNEST SAVES X-MAS (at 9:45) Buses will pro­vide transportation· Meet at main circle at B:45 Tickets available at the theatre or at LSfortune Info Desk for $3.50 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY All 
SHANNON GET, GET, GET OFF! 
Need 4 Penn State tix. Will pay hansome­ly. Call Sandy X4042. 
M. T. Bettencourt, 
For the nexl4 years, we've got BUSH! " doesn't get any better than this! I 
P. D. B. The Secnttary of Rlppedneaa says he 
will never drink again. NOT I 

Monday, November 14, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Irish wrestlers maul Falcons to win first dual meet of year 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
With the help of four pins, the Notre Dame wrestling team destroyed an outmanned Air Force squad 36-9 in its first dual match of the season Sunday at the Joyce ACC. 
In the opening match, Andy Radenbaugh cruised to a 14-7 decision over Air Force's Kurt Buller at the 118-pound divi­sion. Radenbaugh is one of three undefeated Irish wrestlers, with Marcus Gowens and Chris Geneser being the other two. 
Gowens, a freshman yet to lose a match at Notre Dame, squeaked by Tom Tingley 4-3 in the 126-pound class. The entire match was close as the score indicated, but Gowens clearly dominated his opponent. 
Then the hammer fell. Senior Irish co-captain Jerry Durso pinned Jon Larson in an im­pressive time of 1:44. Durson had Larson sprawled on the ground in less than a minute, and the Falcon sophomore never got back up again. 
"Jerry is looking much better. then last year," said Irish as­sistant coach Rick Stewart of his squad's 134-pounder. "Our goal for him is to win the na­tional championship." 
Pat Boyd, who has recovered fully an injury that kept him out of action for most of last season, needed just over six minutes to pin Mark Ciccarello in the 142-pound division. That put the Irish ahead 18-0 in the team scores. 
Todd Layton added six more points to the team score in his 150-pound match. The sopho­more from Independence, Kan., was far ahead of Tim Wil­liams on points when the Air Force wrestler was dis­qualified for committing too many penalties. 
Sophmore Mark Gerardi con­tinued the winning ways with a pin of Tom Herring at 2: 55. Gerardi is suffering from a slight leg injury, but he should be back to full strength in a few weeks. 
"We really wrestled well today considering it was our first match of the season, and I'm sure we'll do nothing but build," stated Gerardi. 
Air Force freshman Rob Downey stopped the Irish shutout with a controversial decision over Notre Dame's Todd Tomazic. With one second left in the match, Tomazic was ahead by one point. Downey took Tomazic down and was awarded two points for the win. According to the referee, time had not yet expired in the match. This loss cut Notre Dame's lead to 30-3. 
Chris Geneser dominated Air Force's Chase McCowen in the 177-pound match that followed Layton's loss. Geneser pinned McCowen in five minutes. 

Gold-medal Soviets tour United States 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL IDLL, N.C. --The last time U.S. basketball fans saw these guys, Olympic gold medals ·were being hung around their necks. Medals that were supposed to be for the United States team. 
The Soviet Union changed that with an 82-76 semifinal vic­tory that kept the United States from the gold-medal game for the first time ever. 
It went on to win the gold medal over Yugoslavia and put on a victory celebration usually reserved for NCAA champion­ship games. It continued when the players arrived home. 
"Basketball is No. 1 sport there," said guard Sharunas 

NOTRe DAMt CHORAlt 
CARl L STAM, CONDUCTOR 

UNIVERSITY 0 f N 0 l 

Marchulionis, the Gail Goodrich look-alike who would love to play in the NBA. "all people were happy. They celebrate." 
The Soviets started a nine­game tour against NCAA com­petition on Saturday at North Carolina. And, with 1(} of the same players from the team that won the gold medal, they beat the Tar Heels 104-93. 
Sabonis, Marchulionis, Alex­ander Volkov and Valeri Tik­honenko are all considered NBA caliber. Sabonis was a first-round draft choice of the Portland Trail Blazers. 


Flanner earns a shot at Pangborn in IH 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
Sunday night Flanner (7­
2) defeated Stanford (8-1) in interhall soccer to advance to the championship series against Pangborn. 
In a tightly contested match played under the lights at Cartier Field, Flan­ner forward Jim Keglovits scored the only goal of the game halfway into the second five-minute over­time. Up to that point it had been mostly a defensive bat­tle. 
While Stanford kept the ball in Flanner's end for the majority of the game, some key plays on corner kicks by goalie Tom Malone kept the ball out of the net. Stanford sweeper Marcelo Renya played an exceptional game, keeping the offense of Flan­ner at bay and limiting the shots on goal. 
Stanford captain Mark Kowalski noted his team's inability to keep play flowing from defense to of­fense. 
"We didn't finish up front," said Kowalski. "We won the fifty-fifty balls and 
were aggressive, but couldn't finish."  we  
Mter  eliminating  the  

tough Off-Campus Hoobers, Stanford appeared poised to 
White 
continued from page 16 
of good for us," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw, now in her second year at the helm for the Irish. "It's not the same as actual game experience, but it lets us know where we stand in a lot of areas." 
But from the looks of things, none of the Irish players will be doing much standing anywhere on the court this year. 
The Irish will most likely take advantage of its most ob­vious attributes: speed, height 
and more speed. 

Talk with graduate students from all departments including Law & MBA 

Find out what to look for in a graduate prog~Fl~r. · 
:-•· what the programs. demand, how Jo prepare ~-~ < 
admission tests·, etc., etc.. ....·... 
WHEN: Tues, Nov. 15 TIME: 7:00-9:00 pm WHERE: Theodore's 
Refreshments will be served. 


advance. past Flanner into the finals. 
"The wet turf and condi­tions might have helped us," said Flanner coach Bart Fox. "We didn't play a very good game." 
Junior · Stanford goalie Greg Talbot made the transition to that position remarkably well, recording several shutouts over the course of the season. The young team finished the season much better than ex­pected, and will return most of its players for next year. 
Flanner will now attempt to avenge a 2-0 loss .to Pangborn which occurred earlier in the double­elimination playoff tourna­ment. Flanner must win two games in order to claim the championship, while Pangborn needs but a single victory. 
"Man for man, we match up against Pangborn," said Fox. "But lately we haven't been playing well as a team. It's going to be tough." 
The two teams will square off in the initial game at 7:00p.m. Tuesday night at either Cartier Field or Moose Krause Stadium. The site will be determined by NVA early this week. 
And the Gold team used all of the above to jump out to a quick 17-4lead early last night, a lead that they never relin­quished. 
The Blue squad tried to counter but couldn't seem to get completely comfortable with the offense, as it repeatedly put up near misses and could not find the bottom of the cylinder with any regularity. · 
The Gold team pulled out to a 21-9lead before the Blue team cut the lead to 10 points only to see Haysbert score a break­away basket off one of her three steals. 
Freshman Deb Fitzgerald found the basket for the Blue squad to bring the score to 27­17, but the quick hands and feet of Karen Robinson and fellow sophomore Sara Liebscher stifled any hopes of a Blue com­eback. 
The tandem recorded four steals apiece to get the Gold fastbreak in motion and disrupt the Blue team's offensive rhythm. 
Graduate Mary Gavin's heir 
· apparent Robinson was also able to display her talents at the point of the Gold team's of­fense, feeding senior Heidi Bunek underneath for many of her team-high 12 points and set­ting the transition game in mo­tion to set the tempo for much of the game. . 
The Gold team also had suc­cess with Haysbert slipping in­side the key, as she scored eight points primarily off a quick first-step around her defender, and with junior Cathy Emigholz hustling under the boards to grab the loose ball and score off second shot at­tempts. 
Both teams had trouble es­tablishing position inside, as neither team had a good night rebounding. 

page 12 The Observer Monday, November 14, 1988 
Women finish disappointing 15th 

By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The season came to a disap­pointing end for the women's cross country team on Satur­day at the District IV Meet. 
In miserable rainy weather, the Irish placed 15th in the field of 21 teams, failing to ac­complish their goal of finishing in the top 10. Wisconsin and Michigan were first and second respectively, and qualified for the upcoming NCAA champi­onship race. 
Going into the race, the Notre Dame coach and runners knew that their chances of earning a spot at the NCAAs were slim at best, but they had hoped to crack the top 10. As it turned out, the Irish point total of 373 was not good enough. 
"I was pretty disappointed," said Coach Tim Connelly. "No one really ran up to their capa­bilities." 
Irish rebound by winning four meets 
By KEVIN REISCH ness. In addition, our front-line Sports Writer performances were much bet­ter." 
A rejuvenated Notre Dame The women· swept past. the swimming team showed up in Panthers in the first race and the pool this past weekend to never looked back. Katie capture its first two victories Pamenter, Becky Wood, of the season. The Irish men's Christy Moston, and Tracy and women's squads bounced Johnson combined for a tri­back from previous defeats umph in the 200-yard medley against Texas Christian by relay. Later, Pamenter blowing Wisconsin-Milwaukee (backstroke), Wood and Ferris State out of the (breaststroke), and Johnson water. (freestyle) all sped to a pair of 
At Rolfs Aquatic Center victories in their respective Friday night, the Notre Dame events. men exploded to a 172-127 tri-On Saturday, Notre Dame umph over Wisconsin-traveled to Ferris State and Milwaukee. The women also again overwhelmed the compe­raced past the Panthers, 165-tition. The men topped the op­
141. ponents 152-83, while the wo­"This meet showed what men outscored them 132-107. Notre Dame swimming is all Freshman Chuck Smith led about," said Irish coach Tim the Irish by leaping to first in Welsh. "It was a strong team the 50-yard freestyle race effort, with great team unity. (22.25) and the 100-yard frees­We swam faster, more relaxed, tyle (48.55). In the 400-yard and more assertive than last medley relay, David Thoman, week." Jay Nash, Bill Jackoboice, and 
Sophomore Paul Godfrey Chris Petrillo teamed up to top paced the men with first-place the field. Jackoboice continued finishes in the 200-yard butter-his success with an individual fly (1: 59.57) and the 200-yard triumph in the 200-yard backstroke (2:03.81). Senior breaststroke race, beating his captain John Froman added an-teammates Jim Byrne and other win (49.25) in the 100-yard Roger Rand by less than a freestyle event. These were second. just a couple of stars in a meet For the women, sophomore dominated by the depth of the Amy Tri coasted to first in the Irish. 1000-yard freestyle (11 :09.83) 
"Wisconsin-Milwaukee was and the 200-yard butterfly fast, but they had some holes (2:26.04). Freshman Jackie in their program," Welsh said. Jones won the 200-yard frees­"Whereas depth was our tyle event, while her classmate victory in the 500-yard frees­tyle race. To round out the scoring, the combination of · Pamenter, Bolattino, Quinn, and Johnson accounted for a tri­umph in the 400-yard medley relay. 
With the impressive pair of victories, Notre Dame raised its record to 2-1 and gained mo­mentum for the National Cath­olic Championships taking place Dec. 1-3 in Philadelphia. 
Senior Theresa Rice said that nobody was satisfied with their performance because they didn't reach their potential. But she added that the condi­tions were less than ideal. The course was muddy and the tem­perature was in the low 40s. 
Rice, the captain of the squad, came in first for the Irish, finishing. 32nd overall with a time of 18 :36 on the 5000 meter course. Lucy Nusrala was 77th, despite falling in the mud toward the end of the race. She was followed by Linda Filar. Terese Lemanski (94th) and Jennifer Ledrick (llOth) rounded out the first five run­ners for the Irish. The scoring was based on team perfor­mance. 
Two facts made the Irish finish especially frustrating. First, the team wasn't able to improve on last year's perfor­mance in this same meet. Notre Dame finished 14th from among 22 teams at the 1987 Dis­tricts. The Irish had wanted to better their results from last season, but they didn't. 
Second, the squad had run en­couragingly at the previous two races, against USC, where they won by a large margin, and at the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference Championships, where they lost by only two points. The Irish were looking forward to continuing to run well at the Districts. 
Now that the season is over, Coach Connelly gave an overall evaluation. 
"We had some talent, but I don't know that we ran up to our capabilities," he said. "We didn't meet our expectations." 
Theresa Rice was more pos­itive. 
"We have to keep this in per­spective. We had a few. key in­juries to combat throughout the season," she said. "I would say the season was successful." 


+
American 
Red Cross 
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Any Type Home-made . "You've tried the rest, now try the best" 
Bruno's Monday Night Special: Large Pizza wlany 2 toppings -Eight Dollars 
Pepsi-$2.50 Pitcher Free Delivery Dining Room or carryout 
.289-4625 ·921 N. Eddy, South Bend 
(not valid with any coupon) 
Happy 
18th, 
Tyler 
(Ty-boo) 
Luv, 

JB (your golddust twin) and Jen (AKA 'RO) 
.......... ................................... . 
~
, i~tr~e~n~g~th~,~d~ep~t~h~w~a~s~t~he~i~r~w~e~ak~-~~D~e~bb~i~e~B~r~ad~y~c~o~n~tr~ib~u~t~e~d~a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I•~ ,. •••--•••• ••••••• ·······················•••••• ········•••• .-.-•.-.--m•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••········.:
1
Iii FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES I! 
1: 1: 
1: 1: 
I• A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add 1' 
1: to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their future. .:
1: : 
1: : 
1 
" 
DR. ANTHONY S. SERIANNI ~~ College of Science ~
! 
1

~,AN APPRAISAL OF SCIENCE AS A PROFESSION" 
" 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1988 
7:30 P.M. 
1: AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
1: 
A Re_ception will follow the lecture.
1: 
1: 
,...••••••..••...........
······---------------'••···········--·········· 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, November 14, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Irish volleyball turns Golden in sweep of Classic 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
They were golden. 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team outshined a talented field of opponents last weekend to capture the in­augural Golden Dome Classic 
and  cast  a  new  light  on  its  
chances  to  gain  a  first-ever  
NCAA bid.  

The Irish started out slowly Friday night but still won in three games over Duke, 15-7, 15-8 and 15-6 and took the court Saturday like a team possessed to beat Northwestern easily in a three-game match, 15-3, 15-5 and 15-5. 
"I always told the girls that if we put it all together we'd destroy someone," said Irish head coach Art Lambert, "and that is exactly what we did tonight (against Northwes­tern). 
"We looked a little sluggish Friday, but (Saturday) we did all the little things right and 
+ 
.Am.erican 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
just put on an impressive dis­play as a team." 
Notre Dame's play was indeed impressive Saturday night, as the Irish, playing their last home match of the year, used emotion and consistent play to dominate the Wildcats and claim three spots on the all-tourney team. 
Seniors Mary Kay Waller and Maureen Shea and fresh­man sensation Julie Bremner all earned all-tourney honors. Waller was also named the tourney's most valuable player. 
The Irish, led by strong all­around play from the team's four seniors--Waller, Shea, Zanette Bennett and Whitney Shewman--who were playing their last collegiate home match, established the tempo of the match early in game one. The Wildcats could never get into gear. 
Notre Dame's hitters, espe­cially sophomore Tracey Shel­ton, who had four kills in the early going, assaulted Northwestern, as the Irish took an early 6-0 lead that they never relinquished. 
The Irish did not let up in game two, as they wore the Wildcats down with long vol­leys and a human wall that sent 
the  Wildcat's  team  hitting  
percentage  into into  a  swift  
decline.  

Notre Dame did not even ap­pear daunted by a slow start in game three that kept the team in holding pattern until Bennett dropped a soft shot into the Wildcat defense to break a 5-5 tie. 
The Irish took off at that point, as the Wildcats did not score another point in the game and finished with a deplorable .063 hitting percentage. 
Bennett led the Irish with a team-high 12 kills for a .474 hit­ting percentage and also tallied four total blocks. 
Imitation was the sincerest form of flattery for Waller and Shelton, who both registered 10 kills for a .400 hitting percentage. Waller also tallied 
Bears beat Redskins; 
Associated Press back Doug Williams completed 
only six of 19 passes for 69 
Mike Tomczak and Matt yards before leaving early in 
Suhey each ran for first-half the third period. Replacement 
touchdowns as the Chicago Mark Rypien threw touchdown 
passes to Ricky Sanders and

=.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiii·Bears, with recuperating co­
• ach Mike Ditka looking on from Gary Clark but had four passes SCHEELE PURE WATER the sidelines, charged to a 20-0 intercepted by the NFL's top­
sTSTEMS, INC halftime lead en route to a 34-14 rated defense. thrashing of the Washington
needs Full /Part time: .......,u,,.....,,., on Sunday. telemarketers "He doesn't have to stand up Chiefs 31, Bengals 28 canvasers and coach --he has a tremen-Albert Lewis made two big sales people presence," Bears safety plays in the last six minutes as Duerson said of Ditka, Kansas City, 2-9-1, overcame a for Mon.-Fri. 3-9pm 
suffered a mild heart at-28-19 deficit. Lewis blocked a Saturday 9-6pm only 11 days earlier. punt out of the end zone to pullBears, 9-2, limited the the Chiefs within 28-21. Then, 
Excellent pay & benef~s ldE~fertdirtg Super Bowl cham-after Christian Okoye's 1-yard Call 2n-6066 between e-5pm yards in the decisive run tied the score 28-28, Lewis -========:::==:!.~~~J~!:~~q~u~a~rt~e~r~-recovered a fumble by Cincin­
• nati's Marc Logan on the kick­

off. Kansas City took over on A big-play defense forced yard field goal in the second 
the Cincinnati 28 with 1:05 to three turnovers and John Step­quarter. 
go, and won it 63 seconds later hens scored the clinching
JKAPLAN 
on Nick Lowery's fifth field touchdown with 6:48 remaining Cardinals 24, Giants 17
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL aNTER LTD. 
goal of the game, a 39-yarder. as New England, 6-5, won its Neil Lomax threw for 353 first road game-of the season yards and two touchdowns for 
HELP WANTED 

in five starts. Phoenix, which moved into a tie with New York atop the NFC
-IMPORTANT NOTICE­
Delivery Drivers, 

east, both at 7-4. Lomax com­(Good News!!) 
Bucs 23, Lions 20 pleted 23 of 35 passes, including 
waitresses and 

Donald Igwebuike kicked a a 44-yarder to Roy Green with 
waiters, 

52-yard field goal with 10 13: 16left in the game that gave 
A second LSAT prep course for the 10/1/88 
seconds remaining as Tampa the Cardinals a 21-7 lead. test will be starting at the Kaplan Center 
Needed for 

Bay, 3-8, crawled out of the
Bruno's Pizza. Apply in 

NFC central basement. Detroit In other games, it was
immediately. If you were unable to enroll 
person at Bruno's, 

and Green Bay, each 2-9, Philadelphia 27, Pittsburgh 26; replaced the Bucs. San Diego 10, Atlanta 7; Den­
or if you are a transfer from another 
921 N. Eddy 

Lars Tate scored on a 5-yard ver 301 Cleveland 10; and Kaplan Center and were not able to 
run and Igwebuike, who also Seattle 27, Houston 24. 
get a seat in Class I, please call the 
Attention Juniors Interested In Working On
South Bend Kaplan Center right away 
for class dates and times. You will 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND: 
have the same instructor. Please do 
Check committee you wish to work on below and bring 
not delay if you want a seat in Class II. 
this application to Junior class office by Tuesday, 
We regret any inconvenience caused due 
November 15, 5:00 pm. (Located on 2nd floor, 
LaFortune.)

to increased demand for our LSA T prep 
course for the 10/1/88 test. 
Committees: 

1. 
Presidential Dinner 

2. 
Brunch



Kaplan Educational Center 
3. Communications

17 I 7 E. South Bend Avenue 
4. Welcoming Reception
South Bend, IN 46637 
5. Mass 

PHONE 219/272~4135 
6. Hall Party Name Address Phone 


a team-high five total blocks. 
Bremner hustled all over the court to record a team-high 13 digs defensively and 38 assists to set up her hitters. 
Friday night the Irish lacked the techical polish of Satur­day's performance, but the team survived an error-filled battle with Duke even with an unusually high 12 service er­rors. 
Notre Dame was able to over­come its sloppy play in the first game largely because of Shea, who was able to control play on both sides of the net. 
The Blue Devils made the Irish work for every point in the second game as well, pick­ing up many of the Irish spikes with their hustle. But · once again, they could never mount a serious offensive attack. 
The third game gave the Irish a chance to experiment with some new talent, as fresh­man Christine Choquette . and Katie Kavanaugh joined the lineup, to put the finishing touches on the Irish victory. 
Waller owned the net, as she 
recorded a match-high 15 kills 
for a .591 hitting percentage 
and. four total blocks, as well · as a team-high five digs. 
Shelton provided some much 
need firepower from the left 
side as she tallied eight kills 
and a slew of seniors--Bennett, 
Shea and Shewman--all added 
seven kills to the cause. 
Northwestern shocked Penn 
State earlier Friday evening, 
breaking their 25-match win­
ning streak with a four-game 
victory, 15-12,9-15, 16-14 and 15­
8. 
The impressive Irish play 
may be a harbinger of things 
to come for the team if they 
can continue to come on strong 
in the remaining two weeks of 
the regular season before 
NCAA bids are announced. 
"I can't say enough about how the team looks right now," said · Lambert. "It doesn't guarantee us a bid, but it is definitely a step in the right direction." 
KG gets second win 
Colts 20, Packers 13 bad a 23-yarder in the second 
Chris Chandler passed for quarter, kicked a 22-yarder to two touchdowns, but In­put the Bucs ahead 20-13 with dianapolis, 6-5, had to stop a 2: 10 remaining. The Lions went last-second drive at the 2-yard 70 yards in seven plays, tying line to beat Green Bay for its it 20-20 on a 19-yard pass from fifth straight victory. Rusty Hilger to Garry James 
The Colts' Harvey with 45 seconds remaining. Armstrong batted down a Don Majkowski pass on the final play to finish the Packers, 2-9, Raiders 9, 49ers 3 who drove from the In-Chris Bahr kicked field goals dianapolis 49-yard line after of 45, 50 and 19 yards as Los recovering an onside kick with Angeles, 6-5, kept pace with 37 seconds left. Majkowski's 3-DenverandSeattleinthethree­yard touchdown pass to Aubrey team battle for first place in Matthews with 42 seconds to go the AFC west. San Francisco --Green Bay's first touchdown in also is 6-5, but trails New Or­13 quarters --brought the Pack-leans by two games and the Los ers to within 20-13. Angeles Rams by a game in the 
NFC west. The 49ers' only
Patriots 14, Jets ·13 points came on Mike Cofer's 44­
7. Academic Workshop (Circle One) 
a. 
Engineering 

b. 
Business Administration 

c. 
Arts and Letters 

d. 
Science 


8. Hospitality and Hotels 
Any Questions? Call Karen Croteau X1884 Chris Boron X2905 
page 14 The Observer Monday, November 14, 1988 
Associated Press 

Miami will probably stay home for the holidays. But Notre Dame and West Virginia apparently are heading for a Fiesta in Arizona. 
Although bowl bids don't of­ficially go out until Saturday, many of the nation's top college football teams are already making travel plans. 
Fourth-ranked West Virg~nia seemingly locked up a Fiesta Bowl date against No. 1 Notre Dame with a 35-25 victory over Rutgers, leaving No. 3 Miami as a likely opponent for the Oklahoma-Nebraska winner in the Orange Bowl. 
"We're going to be par­ticipating in a major bowl and there will be plenty of time for people to make their arrange­ments," West Virginia athletic director Fred Schaus said. 
Schaus wouldn't name the bowl, but there was little doubt he was talking about the Fiesta. 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, whose team is also being sought by the Orange, was coy when asked about the bowl situtation. 
NCAA's 
continued from page 16 
The key to being successful at a cross country meet with many competitors is to have depth, minimizing the gap be­tween its first and last runners. At districts, Cahill, O'Rourke and Mulvey provided that depth, making the gap between 
~ the first and fifth runners 69 seconds. "The success of the team is highly due to Cahill, O'Rourke, and Mulvey," said Piane. "We told them from the outset of the season that the three, four and five runners would determine the season for us. At the meet, they came through." Bill Taylor, who was also the winner of the Notre Dame In­vitational earlier this year, won the 10,000-meter district meet. Ron Markezich led the Irish runners, placing eighth on the course in 31:35. Garrett finished 16th, completing the course in 31 :56. "When I finished the race I thought that I screwed up," said Garrett, who was hoping to finish in the top 10. "Then I turned around and saw Ryan (Cahill), Tom (O'Rourke) and Mulvey, and knew we had a shot at qualifying." Sophomore Ryan Cahill had his biggest race of the season by far, finishing 26th in 32:22. O'Rourke was right behind, running the circuit in 32:26, good enough for 29th. Mulvey sealed the Irish effort with a 39th-place finish in 32:43. The Irish couldn't expect worse conditions at the meet, which partially explains the rather high times of all the run­ners. Conditions were des­cribed as "very windy, rain, muddy, in the low 40s." "We got out there for the race and it was pouring," said Gar­rett. "It was like a mud-slick, and it was 45 degrees and freez­ing. It was the worst conditions I've ever run in." Piane was honored by being named District IV coach of the year. "Something like that is really meaningful because it comes not from my wife but from the other coaches," he said. 
Bowl outlook no longer fuzzy 
"What bowl can we go to to Louisiana State vs. Southern possible enhance our stand­Cal or Florida State in the ings?" he said. "Winning the Sugar; Clemson vs. the national championship is nice. Nebraska-Oklahoma loser in It's not an absolute necessity the Citrus; and Syracuse vs. and it's not something every­Auburn or LSU in the Hall of one's obsessed with, but if you Fame. are going to do something in Michigan clinched the Big tradition with Notre Dame's Ten championship and the history ... let's be the best we Rose Bowl berth with a 38-9 vic­possibly can be." tory over Illinois. But Michigan 
Translation: look for a Notre coach Bo Schembechler said 
Dame-West Virginia matchup he's only thinking about Satur­in the Fiesta, no matter what day's upcoming game against happens the rest of the season. arch-rival Ohio State. 
Both teams are currently un­"We're playing the bigge::;t defeated, although the Irish game of the year next week," AP Photo still must play Penn State and he said. "The Rose Bowl Why are these men celebrating? The third-ranked Miami Hurricanes No. 2 Southern Cal, while West doesn't mean as much to me as will probably be home for the holidays, playing on their home turf Virginia has a date with No. 15 playing at Ohio State." In the Orange Bowl. Although bowl are still a week away, most of 
Syracuse on Saturday. LSU clinched at least a tie 
the games are already set. 
Notre Dame handed Miami for the Southeastern Confer­its only loss this season, 31-30. ence title with a 20-3 victory to gain its third straight Atlan­Holiday--Wyoming vs. Okla­But the Irish have no desire for over Mississippi State, but they tic Coast Conference title and homa State. a rematch, so the Hurricanes haven't clinched a spot in the a trip to the Citrus Bowl. California--Western Mic-will probably have to settle for Sugar Bowl. Here's the tentative lineups higan vs. Fresno State. an Orange Bowl berth against If Auburn beats Alabama in for the other bowls: Freedom--Brigham Young the Big Eight champion. Birmingham Nov. 25, it will Gator--Georgia vs. Michigan vs. Arizona or Colorado. 
The tentative lineup for the sharethe league championship State, Pittsburgh or Colorado. Independence--Southern other Jan. 2 bowls looks like with LSU. If that happens, the Sun--Alabama vs. Army. Mississippi vs. Texas El-Paso. this: Michigan vs. the Southern Sugar Bowl committee will Aloha--Washington State vs. Liberty--Indiana vs. South Cal-UCLA winner in the Rose; choose the league's represen­Houston. Carolina. Arkansas vs. Florida State or tative in New Orleans. All American--Florida vs. Il­Peach--Iowa vs. North UCLA in the Cotton; Auburn or Clemson beat Maryland 49-25 linois or Michigan State. Carolina State or Pac-10 team. 


THIS WEEK 


~~ MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL .AT 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB FROM 8:30-12:30 *FOOD SPECIALS* MIAMI DOLPHINS VS. BUFFALO BILLS 

GRADUATE SCHOOL NIGHT AT THEODORE'S FROM 7-9 COME TALK TO GRAD STUDENTS ABOUT GRAD SCHOOLS 
?
• 
~ 

(c~~ SENIOR BLOCK PARTY ~ AT JACC FROM 3-6 *FOOD BOOTHS & BEVERAGES* 



Monday, November 14, 1988 
CAMPUS 
4:00 p.m. Peace Institute lecture "Making Friends of Enemies," by Jim Forest, Communications Director Inter­national Fellowship of Reconciliation, Room 121 Law School. 
5:30 p.m. Connecticut Club Christmas trip signups in LaFor­tune Lobby. The fee will be $90 and a deposit will be required. Contact Kent Weldon at 283-4639 for further information. 
8:00 p.m. Fellowship of Christian Athletes meets at Saint Edward's Hall. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Sausage Grinder Veal Cordon Bleu 
Chicken Romano Cajun Seafood Rice 
Sweet & Sour Pork Spinach Cheese Souffle 
Broccoli Cheese Casserole Deli Bar 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Actress Anouk 49 Caesar, for one 50 Absorbs
1 Denizen of the deep 54 Rebukes
27 Pindar product 28 Deeply

5 Moral precept 56 Dross 
absorbed

10 Cob or pen 57 Lbs. upon lbs. 
31 Kind of 

14 Give--on the 58 Endings for pay 
accounting

back and plug 
34 Copy a peacock

15 Hush breaker. 59 Loses one's 
35 Earthy offering 

16 Bok choy's kin shirt 
36 Reserved

17 Owns up 62 Dry dishes 38 E.T.O. V.LP.
19 On the Red 63 Cara or Papas39 Drench
20 "--Buttermilk 64 Te Kanawa 
41 N.BA whistler

Sky," 1946 tune specialty 42 Lotus-eater
21--water. 65 Prying (prove true) 44 Entry 
66 Made crow 22 Restraint 45 Formed foam sounds 24 TV tear-jerkers 47 Great fault 67 LobscousEl_ 
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

COMICS . 
Bloom County 
1 Tortilla treats 2 Apia's island 3 Dubbed 4 Had lunch 5 Concert finale 6 Fares 18 Cast off 33 Butters up so Setting 7 Whipped along 23 Edit 34 Stacked 51 Commence 
52 Loosen knots 

a Biblical bk. 25 Explorer De 37 Pick up a grounder 53 Fiddlesticks!
9 Franc unit 54 Seeded
26 Moslem mogul 40 Barnyard sound 
10 Bonnie Blair, 55 Bruce Catton's 
e.g. 28 Miffed 43 Severe Muse 11 Is eliminated 46 Admiral Bull 
29 Gaelic 

56 Take a swerving 12 Downwind course
30 Judge 

31 Comic Reiner 47 Plastered 60 Celestial Altar misses 32 Olive genus 48 "--Camera" 61 Kind of relief 13 Like some 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

Buzz Mcflatop 



-

Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
To get printed information on the role ofa free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
A !1Ublic service message of The Ad Council and The Society of Professional Journalists. 
We needsomeone withtheambitionofan investment banker,thepatienceofa ~instructor and the optimismofaweatherman. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us at 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 93. 
PeaceCorps. 
The toughest job you11 ntrkM. 



Sports
Monday, November 14, 1988 page 16 
Irish qualify for NCAA Meet 
Cross country finishes 2nd in tough District IV 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
It's "nationals, here we come." 
The men's cross country team rose to the occasion on Saturday, finishing second at the District IV meet in Cham­paign, Ill., to secured the team a bid to the NCAA Champion­ships. 
l 
This is the second consecu­tive year that the Irish will be going to nationals, a feat they haven't accomplished since their repeat performance in 
1965-66.
,'G ,<' 

The Observer I Eric Bailey The Irish finished second in For the second year In a row, the Notre Dame men's cross country the district meet behind team has qualified for the NCAA Meet. The Irish finished second defending national champion 
behind perennial power Wisconsin In the NCAA District IV Meet, Wisconsin and two points qualifying along with the Badgers and Michigan for the Champion­ahead of Michigan. ship Meet. Following the meet, Irish 
Captains lead 'Gold' over Blue 
Special to the Observer 
Co-captains Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson combined for 51 points to lead the Gold team past the Blue 74-66 in the Notre Dame basketball team's in­trasquad charity game at the Joyce ACC. 
The charity game, which saw the Gold team actually dressed in white jerseys, drew a paid attendance of 1,470 fans and an income of $2,066 to be split be­tween the Logan Center and Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram. 
Fredrick led all scorers with 28 points. The junior from Cin­cinnati, Ohio, shot 11-of-18 from two-point range and 2-of-3 from three-point land. 
Jackson, a junior from Peoria, Ill., shot 10-of-15, in­cluding a perfect 2-of-2 from beyond the three-point stripe, 
-.. ... .. 
The Observer I Eric Bailey Joe Fredrick (3) and Jamere Jackson led the Irish Gold-White team over the Blue In Notre Dame's annuallntrasquad game held Sunday 
for 23 points. Jackson also led all players with eight assists. 
Sophomore guard Tim Singleton scored 11 for the Gold, and junior Keith Robin­son chipped in with 10. 
Freshman guard Keith Ad­kins led the Blue team with 23 points. The freshman from Paintsville, Ky., made five three-point shots in the last nine minutes of the scrim­mage. Junior Scott Paddock added 18 for the Blue, while freshman Daimon Sweet scored 11. 
The Gold team's Keith Tower and Robinson each pulled down seven rebounds, as did Pad­dock for the Blue. Tower, a freshman from Coraopolis, Pa., also committed four fouls. All those fouls came in the first 15 minutes of play. 
The Blue team built a lead of as much as seven points during the first seven minutes of the game, but Jackson led a 17-4 run by the Gold. Jackson scored nine points and Robinson added six during the outburst. 

Jackson and Fredrick took over from there, and the Blue team never did regain the lead. Fredrick scored 20 points in the final 20 minutes, ;ind Singleton made nine of his 11 points during the same time span. 
LaPhonso Ellis, the highly regarded freshman from East St. Louis, Ill., takes a Sunday night class and had to miss the scrimmage. 
The Blue team was com­posed of Adkins, Paddock, sophomore Kevin Ellery and freshmen Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet. 
Fredrick, Jackson, Robinson, Singleton, Tower and junior walkon Tim Crawford made up the Gold team. 
Blue no match for White 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
It's not easy to get a lopsided victory and loss in one game. 
But last night the Notre Dame women's basketball team proved that it is indeed possible, as it engaged its an­nual intersquad battle--the Blue-Gold game. 
The Gold team may have soundly defeated the Blue 43-19 in the game's one half of play, but win or lose, the yearly ritual provides coaches and fans alike with an opportunity to mark the team's progress and gives the players a chance to break out of the monotony of preseason drills. 
The Gold .. team dominated play for the entire game, but, with just one freshman-­Comalita Haysbert--and six re­turning letterwinners, it was able to take advantage of the relative inexperience of a Blue team comprised of many new­comers. 
"I think this game did a lot Head Coach Joe Piane was named district coach of the year by a coaches poll, the second straight year he has received that honor. 
"This race can be more sat­isfying in some ways than last year," said Piane. "Even though nobody expected us to do it last year, we didn't have as many adversities to over­come." 
Piane is referring to the fact that the Irish have been plagued by injuries, losing two of their top seven runners, Mike O'Connor and Pat Kearns, for the season, equiv­alent to Lou Holtz losing 27 of his football players for the year because of injuries. 
The key to the team's success was not in its customarily awesome performances from 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team lost Its first ever NCAA tourn­ament game Sunday 2-0 to the Southern Methodist Mustangs. The Irish finish the season at 17-4-2, while SMU (11-2-6 continues in the tournament. 
Mustang massacre eliminates Irish 
Special to The Observer 
DALLAS--The Notre Dame men's soccer team's first-ever NCAA Tournament appear­ance turned sour in six minutes. 
Southern Methodist Univer­sity defender David Carlson scored his first goal of the season six minutes into Sun­day's first-round game and the Mustangs went on to eliminate the Irish 2-0 in front of 1,343 fans at Ownbey Stadium. 
"SMU played a very good game," said Notre Dame head coach Dennis Grace, whose team finishes the season at 17­4-2. "When you get behind early to a team that's given up onl 
Inside Sports 
Irish volleyball wins Golden Dome Classic .................... page 13 
12 goals all year, it gets pretty tough.'' 
The Mustangs (11-2-6) have given up only 12 goals in 19 games this season, and outshot the Irish 16-2 Sunday. Three SMU shots hit the goalpost, while SMU keeper Matt Fred­erick saved the only Notre Dame shot on goal. 
Carlson's was the first goal scored against Notre Dame in four games. 
All-America forward Larry McPhail drilled a shot into the right corner of the net mid-way through the second half for the second Mustang tally. 
SMU tied a school record by recording its 12th shutout of the year. 
its top two runners, Dan Gar­rett and Ron Markezich, but from the strong showings from Ryan Cahill, Tom O'Rourke, and Rick Mulvey. 
These three, having some problems earlier in the season, came together for the team's biggest test of the year and gave the team a trip to Des Moines, Iowa for the National Championships on Nov. 21. 
"Those three all came to­gether great," said senior Ron Markezich. "In the past they didn't put it all together, and Dan (Garrett) and I were com­ing through. At districts, Dan and I didn't run that well, and they saved us. Now we just have to put it all together at nationals." 
see NCAA's, page 14 
.9. 
{,'t•ii The Observer I Suzy Hernandez 

at the Joyce ACC. The co-captains combined for 51 of the winning 
Swimmers sweep four meets................... page 12




