
Partly sunny and very cool Friday. High In the lower 40s. Clear Friday night. Low in the upper 20s. Increasing cloudi­ness and not as cool Saturday. 
VOL. XXII, N0.42 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NO hosts Hiler-Ward congressional debate 
By REGIS COCCIA cation. Hiler accused Ward of sions that have helped restore Asked what he would do to Removing the house or sole Senior Staff Reporter ignorance of the issues. the vitality of our economy," remedy skyrocketing tuition proprietorship business or Hiler stressed the impor­Hiler said. "I have been happy costs for students like those at farm from family assets in fin­
The candidates for Indiana's tance of economic growth to be in Congress the last eight Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, ancial aid consideration would 3rd Congressional District during his terms in Congress in years and cast some of those Hiler said there are two ways help students, Hiler said. A went head to head Thursday providing jobs, improving the tough votes and make some of funds can work for students. study of grants and loans would night in the Joyce ACC in the education system and building those tough decisions that are "I think one of the highest help diminish loan defaults and first student-run congressional a strong national defense. responsible for the dramatic priorities of the secretary of make more higher education debate ever held at Notre But Ward criticized the eco-improvement in the economy.'' education is to do an in-depth funding available, he added. Dame. 
The government's toughest 
Tom Ward had hard words 
Incumbent Rep. John Hiler job in the next two years will for his Republican opponent and Democrat Tom Ward be bringing the deficit under but agreed that removing responded to questions from a control, Ward said. "When we homes from financial aid as­six-member student panel on look at priorities, I know where sets would help. "I don't have issues ranging from the eco­mine are at and I know where any confidence in the incum­nomy to education. I want to make the cuts and I bent doing anything positive 
Hiler said he hoped the know where things need to be for higher education," Ward debate would bring out some of supported," he said. said. the differences between his op­Ward stressed the need for "Too many students are bor­ponent and himself. The one­cuts in defense spending, call­rowing too much money, com­hour meeting did just that, ing the MX missile program "a ing out of college with too much giving the audience a look at tremendous waste of U.S. dol­debt," he said, but did not 
Rep. John Hiler lars."

the positions of both candi­specify how the financial aid dates. nomic policies of the Reagan "I see it as very important study of what is driving the cost system for higher education 
The Republican Hiler drew administration, calling the in­that we invest money in educa­side of the equation of higher should change. heavy fire during the debate creasing federal budget deficit tion, and that making dollars education," he said. "If we con­"I'd like to continue to put from Democrat Ward, who a "terrible legacy" he was "not available to students who don't tinue to have that price infla­my experience to work for this criticized the incumbent's con­proud of." have the wherewithal to go to tion, in a generation or two community," Hiler said in gressional record and stances "Over the last eight years school," said Ward, a Notre generations nobody is going to 
... DEBATE, p-ee I

on defense spending and edu-we've made a number of deci-Dame graduate. be able to afford it." 
ND off-campus students robbed 
By MATT GALLAGHER proceeded to call the South ment, the intruders made off Senior Staff Reporter Bend Police Department, who with $75 in cash, a table lamp arrived at the house within five and a bottle of rum. The lamp 
A home occupied by four off­minutes, according to Swetz. and broken bottle were later campus students was broken The police dispatcher had the found near the home. Cur­into October 15, and the thieves residents remain on the tele­rently, police have no suspects escaped with an undetermined phone until the officers ar­in the case. amount of cash and property. rived. Swetz said she and her 
Tracy Swetz, a resident of the Swetz said the intruders ap­housemates plan to increase Northeast-neighborhood home, parently ~eked in the the security of the house. said she and a housemate, Mic­plexiglass c6ver over a base­"We've boarded up the bro­helle Lynch, were home asleep ment window to gain entry to ken window and added several when the break-in occured at the house. The robbers took at locks," Swetz said. about 2:30a.m. least $100 in cash, a radio and Swetz said she and her 
"We woke up when we heard several pieces of jewelry of an housemates have contacted our dog barking," Swetz said. undetermined value. several of their student neigh­
When she and Lynch went to When police arrived on the bors to form a neighborhood investigate, Swetz said, "We scene, the intruders had watch group. heard at least two voices already left. Swetz said she She also said she believed her downstairs, and it sounded like believed the thieves heard her house was an ideal target for they were rummaging through voice and fled. crime. "We're in a bad loca­the kitchen." According to Lt. Kilgore of tion, we're girls, and we're ba­
The two residents then the South Bend Police Depart-sically easy targets." 

7 alumni 2 ND students assaulted 
By SARA MARLEY Mart on South Bend Avenue. According to Simon, the attackers, but housemates 
' 

Senior Staff Reporter "There were five guys and two police returned to the scene and Mike Flynn and Mike Nolan did girls walking to their cars. the crowd dispersed. receive crank phone calls 
A recent fight on the 900 block They were attacked out of Neither Simon nor Camblin during October break. of Corby Boulevard has left nowhere by twenty blacks, was seriously injured, and nei­"Someone would call and hang several alumni injured and aged fifteen to eighteen or ther filed a police report. Four up," Flynn said, adding that he some off-campus students nineteen, using baseball bats other reports were filed by felt the calls were made in an worried about neighborhood and brass knuckles," said alumni. attempt to find out if the stu­relations. Simon. Two arrests were made in the dents were at home. 
According to Seniors Kevin Simon and Camblin incident. Eric Gilbert, 24, of "Now we don't know what to Camblin and Craig Simon, the responded to the commotion. Chicago was arrested for expect. We don't know if this is fight began when seven alumni "We drew the crowd to our­public intoxication and resist­an isolated incident or if thisDaylight Savings time ends 
at 2 a.m. October 30. While were attacked on Oct. 15 selves, and they (the alumni) ing law enforcement. Eric Ruf­will make the situation worse," around 11:30 p.m. while were able to get into their cars fin, 27, of South Bend was ar­Simon said. 
most of the nation will set 

leaving the students' house on and go to the hospital," Simon rested for public intoxication "We thought about movingtheir clocks back one hour, 
St. Joseph County residents, Corby Street. said. and disorderly conduct. out, but we didn't want to run Simon said one alumnus was "Our neighbors from across "It is more than likely that out on our landlord or the other
who remain on Eastern Standard Time all year long, stabbed in the arm and re­the street were helping us to this incident was precipitated students who live in the neigh­quired stiches. Another was break it up," said Simon. by alcohol," said Lieutenant borhood," said Simon. 
will not have to adjust their 

clocks. beaten in the face and broke "After the cops left, a shot Richard Kilgore of the South The students have scheduled his jaw, according to Simon. was fired," Simon said. "At Bend Police Department. a meeting with Phil Johnson, The alumni were walking to that point, we just got everyone Simon reported there had their cars in the S and N Mini-inside," he said. been "no retaliation" from the see CRIME, page 6 



a e 2 The Observer Friday, October 28, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN
IN BRIEF 




Miami fan is still fuming over alleged 'fumble' 
Feast of All Saints Tuesday, November 1st, is a holy day of obligation. A Vigil mass will be held in Sacred Heart Church today at 5:15p.m. Mass will be celebrated on Tuesday at 11:30 a.m., and a solemn liturgy will be held on Tuesday afternoon, November 1st at 5:00 p.m. Please check your residence hall bulletin board for the times of hall masses. -The Observer Dept. of Chemistry Scholarship: The University of Notre Dame has received at $50,000 commitment from International Bakers Services, Inc. of South Bend, to en­dow an undergraudate scholarship fund in its Department of Chemistry. "There is no more pressing need in our present fundraising campaign than the establishment of undergraduate scholarships," said Rev. Edward A. Mal­loy, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. -The Observer OF INTEREST Humanities the journal of the College of Arts and Letters is soliciting essays, interviews, fiction and reviews. Direct submissions to the 3rd floor LaFortune by November 4. -The Observer lss~es '88 this week features an in-depth analysis of the fmal two weeks of the 1988 Presidential Campaign. Prof. Robert Schmuhl will join moderator Bob Groth and the three regular commentators for a provocative round table discussion this Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on WVFI. -The Observer · The Anti-Apartheid Network is holding its weekly vigil today on the Dome steps at 12:15 p.m. -The Observer Logan Center Halloween Recreation will be held tomorrow from 9-11 a.m. There will also be a volunteer pizza and sub party afterward. -The Observer Campus Bible Fellowship will be studying "Prophecy--What's ahead for the Church" today at 6:30 p.m. at the Campus House--19525 Pendle Road (off Juniper). -The Observer Need Help in Accounting? Tutoring in Accounting will be taking place this Sunday night in Rm 124 Hayes Healy from 7:30 p.m.-9:00 p.m. First come first serve basis. Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi. -The Observer Black Cultural Arts Fashion Show is holding signups for the tryouts in mid-November. If interested in being a model call Delia Lozano at 271-8346, in being an MCcall Carla Morris at 283-4968. -The Observer Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer  
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ 0 Call 239-6900 C  
Design Editors .................. Lisa Tugman Etc. Copy Editor ............ Susan Buckley ............................................. David Roth Etc. Designer ........................ Tim Irvine Design Assistant ............ Shannon Poley Typists................................. Val Polleto Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Molly Schwartz .............................................. Sue Barton ...........................................Paul Jackson ND Day Editor .................... Sandy Roth News Editor ...................... Michelle Dall SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demet Copy Editor ....................... Paul Jackson Ada Designers ................... Anne Kenney Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee ............................................ Molly Killen Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Lisa O'Malley ......................................... Meg Callahan Etc. Editor......... . .... John Blasi ............................................. Kerry Clair ....................................... Shannon Roach ne ~(USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriaa cum aod v~eation periods. ne ot.no• is published by the studenu or the Univ.aity or Notre Dame aod Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purc:bu­ed for S40 per year (S25 per sematcr) by writiaa ne ot.no•, P.0. Boll Q, Notre Dame, llldiaaa 46SS6. "nle ......._ il a member of "nle "-dallll r.-. All reproduc:tion riahU are racrved.  

No, I'm not digging into Lou Holtz' was­tebasket. 
This letter, from a man named King -----from Miami, was sent to The Observer with a chal­lenge scrawled in red marker across the top of the page: DO YOU HAVE THE "CLASS" TO PRINT THIS? 
Dear Mr. Holtz, I have waited three days to write this letter to be able to write a reasoned letter .. Maybe, King, you should have waited three weeks. 
I watched the game on television from beginning to end, and it is clear from what I saw at the time and from the films and the newspaper stories that the officials badly mishandled the ruling on the sup­posed fumble at the 1-yard line late in the fourth quarter. 
I don't remember that particular play, King. 
It is clear to any unbiased observer such as I . .. 
Yeah, right. 
.. . that the runner's knee had touched the ground before the ball came loose from his grasp. That being the case, the ruling should have been "first down" for Miami at the 1-yard line. That is what Coach Jimmy Johnson was indicating on the sideline. 


With a first down at the one yard line, there is no Remember this guy claimed to be writing a doubt that the University of Miami would have "reasoned letter" and, of course, is unbiased. scored, either a touchdown or at least a field goal. I appreciate your attention and anticipate your 
In that case, King (may I call you King?), I prompt announcement that Notre Dame is forfeiting guess there would have been no reason to play the game in the spirit of good sportsmanship. the downs. Why not put the points on the board Sincerely, King -----. and get on with the rest of the game? Okay King, here's the deal. Notre Dame will 
But this is where the letter gets really good. forfeit the game to Miami, which then in turn 
If you and the University of Notre Dame have any will forfeit the game back to the Irish in a classy of the "class" that you say the University of Miami gesture in response to the first-half "incomple­lacks, you will voluntarily forfeit the game, since you tion" that would have been called a fumble had clearly did not defeat Miami without the help of the the officials not given Miami "illegal assistance officials. from incompetent or biased officials" when 
This is the guy who called himself an unbiased Irish defender Frank Starns hit Miami quarter­observer. back Steve Walsh on the Miami 37-yard line. 
If you are still convinced that Notre Dame defeated And forfeit the game to Michigan, also be­the University of Miami honestly without any illegal cause of officiating. assistance from incompetent or biased officials . .. This is getting ridiculous. 
Are you suggesting some sort of conspiracy Fans of the Miami football team, like King, against your Hurricanes? had the chance to show they had class and could .. . you will seek a re-match and re-play the game 
lose gracefully. Jimmy Johnson could have fol­
lowed the example of his players, especially event. Walsh, who credited the Irish with playing well Sorry, King, we may be playing for a national 
at whatever post-season bowl is willing to host the 
and said it was "a great game between two championship that day. great teams." 
Otherwise, if there is no good-faith effort on your Instead, Coach Johnson whined about the part to correct this grave injustice, the game next fumble call for a week. No class. year in the Orange Bowl will be a massacre, with But that's okay, King (and Johnson), because the "Fighting Irish" being pounded into the dirt and the Irish are looking forward to giving you an­becoming fertilizer, producing a good turf for future 
other chance to be graceful losers--next year Hurricane games. at the Orange Bowl on Nov. 25. 




'Jtotwe~

TUESDAY NOVEMBER 1st 
ND Communication and Theatre Film Series at the Snite Museum Film Hotline 239-7361

LUNCHTIME CHAT 12:00-1:00 Dooley Room 
"ALCOHOL AND THE FAMILY" 
BunltAND "liWHtNIEH UIAI.I.G'\(;L-; n '"-~~\Til~>." cm~'AI.IlY IN AN EPIC li\I.E OF I.OVJ:, COUHA<;E ANI> I>HL\NCI~.
Sally Coleman -University Counseling 

MULTICULTURAL NIGHT-LEARN ABOUT THE USES OF 


"****MASTERFUL.
AN AWE-INSPIIUNG EXI'EIUENCE.
ALCOHOL IN DIFFERENT CULTURES AND SAMPLE ETHNIC 
'BEATRICE' IS A HL!\1 FOR THE AGES."
DRINKS 

r--------'T:.I•.mt.·,\'c:rulnt·, 'II II~ llt)~ltlN lll"lt-AI.-1>-------, 
7:30pm MONTGOMERY THEATRE 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 2nd 
LUNCHTIME CHAT 12:00-1:00 Dooley Room 'MINORITIES AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE" Verg Gilliam -Sponsored by the Office of 
Minority Student Affairs 

r' .•:~ .
S'MORES PARTY 6:30-7:00 FIELDHOUSE MALL 
', ·~: . 
MRS. LONISE BIAS· (MOTHER OF THE LATE LEN BIAS) 
7:30 MONOGRAM ROOM J.A.C.C. 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 3rd 
LUNCHTIME CHAT 12:00-1:00 Dooley Room "WOMEN AND ALCOHOL" Molly Sullivan -St. Mary's Office of 
Alcohol Education 
A FILM BY BEriTRAND TAVIiRNIER ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR OF "ROUND J\tJDNIGifr
"MOCK TRIAL" • DIGGER PHELPS ON TRIAL 
fR·,J··.:.,,,...-,..:_:·::.,:_1 UrtU:III..AK-~"O:NAIIL\ti'HtliH't:llllN("tlMI') ~7'"~~ 
~ -,r-:;;;:·.:-_,:,!~.;::=;_j •:r-:"':::....r..::.:....r:
LAW SCHOOLCOURT ROO'v1 
7:30 -9:00 pm 

TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:45 
AOWQRKS 

Friday, October 28, 1988 The Observer 
LaFortune's Montgomery
"' 

The Observer I Trey Raymond
Splat!! Theater how he struggled with death and survived to write
Kathryn Pirrotta and Kelly Ruffner prepare sidewalk advertisements for the SUB-sponsored "Murder in 
about it. The account of Maier's
Disguise." 

illness and recovery was the 
cover story on Newsweek's 
Sept. 12 edition.
Awad: Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
"In February of 1987, I was dying. That kind of jolts you," Maier said. "It's not like the
may be solved by non-vl~.!.~~~~. he said. 
movies. It was like getting a 
derstandmg of the Middle East By FLORENTINE either gives people a headache HOELKER News Staff or pr?mot~s t~e response that 
Nor1Violence is the only way the situation IS unsolv~ble. I the opposing factions in the fee_l strongly that there,Is a so-Gaza strip can come to any lut_10n to the problem, A wad 
type of agreement, according said. to Dr. Mubarak A wad, the foun-The solution, which A~ad der and director of the Pales-believes has been gat~~rmg tinian Center for Nonviolence. support from the Paleshmans, 
A wad spoke about "Non-is ~onviol~nce. He has written violence in Action" in a lecture B:rt_ICles di~ecte? at the Pales-at the Notre Dame Law School timans which hst ways to op-Thursday. Awad detailed con-pose th~ Israeli_ occupat_ion. ditions in the West Bank in Awad said he beheves actions Gaza, where Israeli forces sue~ as writing "P.~.O:" on Is-have occupied the territory for rae~I currel_lcy, ~eJectm~ any a number of years. He said m~ll not written I~ ~rab1c an~ that, despite the terrible re-~e.mg p_roud of ~llhng lsraeh strictions imposed upon Pales-Jalls Will effectively d~mo~­tinians by Israel, "there have strate that the occupation Is 
been changes in the Palestinian wrong. concept of peace." "A change in the social con­"Many suppose that an un-ditions of the Palestinian 
derwent a liver transplant op­
ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
eration on May 12, 1987. Liver transplantation, currently the

OCTOBER30-NOVEMBER4 
most complex single-organ op­eration, was performed on ol_lly
MONDAYOCTOBER31~ 
1,182 patients last year, Mater said. 
LUNCHTIME CHAT 12:00-1:00 Dooley Room 
Maier said he wrote stories about organ transplants but never expected to undergo one. 
"ALCOHOL AND THE WORKPLACE" 
Sharon Burden -Michiana EAP 
FUN RUN 4:00 pm 
death sentence for murder. But "We have stopped being afraid, 
and we are you can appeal a murder sen­
now becoming tence; I couldn't." 
proud and feel stron~ about Maier was diagnosed in 1984ourselves. We now reahze that as having chronic activethe Israelis are a~so af~aid:" hepatitis, a progressive dis­As a result of this reahzahon, ease which attacks the liver,the Palestinians have sent a the body's most complex organ challenge to Israel--a challenge after the brain. A gland crucial of peace. This challenge will for regulating blood and bodyonly be met when both factions chemicals, a poorly function­learn to accept one another, ac­ing liver causes other organscording to Awad. 
to break down. 
A wad said much progress Maier's illness hadwould be made if the United progressed so much that on St.
States peacefully supported Patrick's Day, 1986, his heartboth sides, instead of providing stopped. Numerous hospitalmilitary aid to Israel. "Ne~ther stays forced Maier to leave his 
of us is the good guy; neither of us is the bad g':IY:· Both Is­job as Newsweek's Chicago 
bureau chief. His illness be­raelis and Palestimans need 
peace." came so severe he was unable to perform everyday activi­
"Believe me," A wad said, "if ties; even reading and writing there were peace in the Mid-became impossible, he said. 
East, America would benefit." 
Faced with the only solution to preserve his life, Maier un­
page 3 



"1 Alum and Newsweek writer speaks at N D 
By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter 
Newsweek writer Frank Maier, a Notre Dame graduate who almost died from chronic liver disease, returned to campus Thursday to tell about his experience. 
Accompanied by his wife Ginny, Maier told students in "I really wasn't sure I was ever going to wake up again," he said. But the 10-hour operation in Minnesota's Mayo Clinic was successful. 
"My first instinct was, 'I gotta call New York. I'm alive, and it's a terrific story,"' said Maier. "I'm the first journalist in the history of mankind to go through a liver transplant." 
Surviving the operation was one thing, but getting the story on it in the magazine was an­other, Maier said. An initial meeting with his editors in New York was positive, but weeks and months passed before the story was mentioned again, he said. 
"It sort of dawned on me that getting this story into the mag­azine had nothing to do with me or the story itself. I thought, 'I'm losing the battle on politics,"' Maier said. 
"I was involved in two ways. Professionally, I thought, 'Here's a great story. Why don't those yo-yos in New York get on it?' I was involved emo­tionally," he said. "I wanted to tell my story. Getting it in was just as compelling as staying alive had been." 
The story was eventually published, said Maier, nearly 10 months after he wrote it. Maier said response to the story has been overwhelming, adding he has personally received 125 letters from organ donors and people suffering from illnesses like his. 
"The one thing we learned from this story was, no matter how bad we thought we had it, other people had it worse," Maier said. 
"Now I really am much more interested in people," he said. 
Maier came to campus at the request of longtime friend Robert Schmuhl, University professor of American studies and director of the Program for Ethics in Media. 

·~---------------. -------.
r--------------------------­

page 4 The Observer Friday, October 28, 1988 24 hour shelter for homeless scheduled to open on Dec. 1 
Link described the soon-to­will house the new center, ac­Staff Reporter be-opened center as "more cording to Link. than a shelter." The new build­Link said Father Malloy has 
The downtown homeless ing, Link said, will include a referred to the University's in­shelter, where several Notre drop-in center, food services, volvement as a "social justice Dame students and faculty emergency clothing and coun­investment." members volunteer their ser­seling services. "Do we just put He said the University's in­vices every year, will open these people in a building," volvement was neither a pure again for the winter on Novem­said Link, "or do we give them charity effort nor a profit­ber 1, according to Law School someplace to go with dignity?" making venture. "They're the Dean David Linlc While the new shelter itself owners of the building. That Link said a new 24 hour center will continue to be run by the relieves all these other for the homeless is still being United Religious Community, charitable organizations of readied in a refurbished build­other help agencies will also as­great expense," said Link. In ing on Michigan Street, but sist in carrying out the related addition, he indicated that Fa­should be open by December 1. services. "This is not going to ther Malloy may have taken an 
Link, along with J. D'Arcy replace anything except the old interest because of tradition­Chisolm, associate director for Maranatha shelter," said Link, ally high participation in past the Center for Pastoral and So­referring to other community years. "This is unique, in that cial Ministry, is one of the services provided by the he sees a lot of student involve­directors of COPOSH, a newly COPOSH member agencies. ment," said Link. formed coordinating group for The United Religious Com­According to Link, Notre homeless services. COPOSH, munity has run the shelter for Dame will provide about half which stands for the Council of the past five years in the base­of the volunteers who will work Providers of Services to the ment of the Maranatha at the shelter. He added, "We Homeless, is largely respon­Temple. will need to increase our num­sible for the establishing of the Fifteen local agencies are ber of student volunteers. One new center, according to Link. participating in COPOSH, said of the big changes is that this 
"The original motivation of Link. "Here we've found a will be open most of the day, COPOSH was to provide more great spirit of cooperation and it will be open year round." services than simply sheltering among service providers," he the homeless," said Link. said. Summing up the intent of the "We're trying to get all these Another thing that makes new COPOSH effort, Link said, organizations who are doing this project different is the Uni­"We're really talking about 
By MICHAEL WELLS 
The Observer I Trey Reymond

Who, me?
something for the homeless versity's ownership and refur­helping people get back on their into one organization." bishing of the building which feet." Matt Gallagher, chairman of College Republicans, is interviewed by Chan­nel 16 before last night's student-run congressional debate. 

Flynt says his threat was 'only a joke' 
Associated Press checks to about half a dozen and Isaacman said the case 
The 
people." was thrown out. The check was LOS ANGELES--A $1 million WerBell, head of a Georgia preserved as part of the court 

Observer
check Hustler publisher Larry private security center called record, he said. Flynt gave a Soldier of Fortune Sionics Inc., of which Flynt was Sheriff's Capt. Robert was a joke, and a story that it a client, was among those given 
Grimm said Wednesday there r---=-L....,.,IN,...,.,c=-=o,..,..L-:-:N=w-=-=o=o=o-=M=o=r=e=L­
was payment for killing Frank a check at the party, said was no evidence the allegedSinatra and three publishers Isaacman, "and there wasn't plot went further. But Los An-3300 L.W.W. (US 20) was concocted later, Flynt's any talk of killing anyone. That geles County Sheriff Sherman open 24 hours 
lawyer said Thursday. was someone else's idea." Block said Wednesday he took LOW daily, weekly, group & Bizarre behavior by Flynt The sons sued Flynt in a the matter seriously, although student rates available was at its height when he al­Georgia court to get the money, no charges had been filed. All modern, clean units,
FREE cable, phone and coffee
legedly wrote the check on Nov. 

(219) 234-4063 
14, 1983, to Mitchel WerBell for ..--------------------...
the slaying of Sinatra, Playboy publisher Hugh Hefner, Pen­thouse publisher Robert Guc­



Copies
cione and former TV guide pub­

kinko·s·
lisher and U.S. ambassador Walter Annenberg. 

T H N K
after five the copy center 
"The allegations are totally 

When you need copies after 18187 State Road 23
unfounded," said Flynt's attor­ney, Alan Isaacman. "Back in 
hours, depend on Kinko's, the 


271-G398
November 1983, Larry Flynt 

Think Big This
copy center. We're open late 



had a dinner party and gave .___________________________~ 
Christmas! You
to setve you
out, as a joke, million-dollar 


presents: 



·······*········ 
~THE RAVE~ 
An incredible band-­come check them out! 
Saturday October 29 

9:00--1 :00 

Don't forget to check out the HIDEAWAY! 



PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY! 
Convenient, Modern South Bend Offices 
Plan ahead this yeart Using oniy per week of your spare time, youthe money you need this holi~ay sea:son;. '<.: 
Stay with The Signature into 
Year and earn lg;~~~~:d}:~~~~~~i'j'j'-:f!j
goals, too. If you're in full-time employment, tiiii\:IY\1,..::.-:;::,\:,:·:;:z.:'./. 
To qualify, you must: 
• 
Have the desire to 

• 
Enjoy working with a 


The Signature Group will ·· 
• 
Hourly salary well above 

wage with accelerated 

• 
Valuable company-paid rnrrmom~r­

• 
Paid Vacations and Holidays.

• 
Generous Montgomery Ward discount. 

• 
Opportunity to move into management. 


VAWABLE BONUSES INCREASE YOUR EARNINGS EVEN MOREl 
• 
Referral bonuses are paid when we 

hire an employeethat you refer ta.;Js. 

• 
Attendance bonl!ses. 

• 
Another special bonus is yours after youcomplete three consecutive months with us. 



-l HE. ,. ""' 
CALL 236-4206 

SIGNATURE· ANY DAY between 9 AM and 9 PM
,• • to arrange an interview. 

An Affiliale ol Montgomery Ward Equal Opponumly E MIF 
can earn $1200 in just 3 months! 

SfEAKS 





tr:.
PRIME RIB :J. I: 

SEAFOOD ~~~&s~ 
HRESTNJRANT 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

Friday, October 28, 1988 
The Observer 

Kozol speaks on homeless 
By SARAH VOIGT 
News Staff  
Jonathan  Kozol,  author  of  
several  books  on  adult  il­ 
literacy  and  the  homeless,  

gave a lecture Thursday en­titled "At the mercy of America: the homeless and their children." Kozol cited widespread ignorance about the plight of the homeless and cuts in federal aid as reasons for the half million homeless children in America. 
"We've always had homeless in America, but never this flood of family homelessness. Not since the Great Depression have their been so many home­less children in America," Kozol said. 
Kozol said rents in low in­come housing have skyrock­eted in all the major cities in recent years, resulting in an in­creased number of homeless Americans. In addition, he said, two million jobs per year have been eliminated since 1980. Most of these jobs were in the suffering steel, auto and textile industries. 
"With rents up and wages down, the White House picked this decade to cut benefits," Kozol said. Although the need for aid has increased, federal funding for housing projects has decreased, according to Kozol. 
In what Kozol refers to as "possibly the single greatest domestic budget cut of the Reagan administration,'' yearly funding to provide low cost housing has decreased from a high of 32 billion dollars in 1979 to an all time low of 7 billion dollars today. 
"In New York City today, the waiting list for public housing is 18 years, 12 years in Boston and 20 years in Miami. The ad­ministration has stopped build­ing public housing. Yet the president tells us that the homeless are 'homeless, you might say, by choice,"' said Kozol. 
For the past three years, Kozol has lived and worked in the Martinique Hotel, one of the 60 shelters for the homeless in New York City. The Martinique houses 2,000 destitute people, 1,400 of which are children. Kozol focused much of his lec­ture on impoverished children. 
"Sometimes I wish they (the homeless children) would march into the lobbies of ele­gant hotels and make it impossible for them to enjoy their pleasures. At least if these kids could strike out in this way, they wouldn't strike at themselves," Kozol said. 
Kozol links extreme poverty to the drug problems endemic to the homeless shelters. He refers to their widespread drug and alcoholic abuse as "a dis­guised form of suicide." 
According to Kozol, the tragedy of homelessness transcends the partisan issue. "Homeless children need Americans of all political pos­itions to hear their words," Kozol said. 
"Someday, we're told, there will be physicans for these children, food for their families, mercy for their mot­hers. Someday, somewhere, someplace--but not now. These children that are alive right now will not profit from the blessings of another decade, from the kindness of another congress or the mercy of an­other head of state," Kozol said. 
"That's the pity; that's the 
urgency. They will have no second chance to live their childhoods .... This is an irrever­
sible theft. The loss is incalcul­~~l~~i~e crime unspeakable," 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 



QR&\t Wt'LL 
CHINESE·IIIDICO IESTAUUIIT 
~c Sacllu8n, lhndllrtn I HunM Culllnel 
Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at______ $4.95 Bestcnuant open 7 days 
Mon.-Thura.ll:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-Sutll:30 am to 11 pm 
Sun. &Holidays11:30 am to 10 pm 130 Dixie Hwy., Boaeland (next to llcmclall'• but) 
North & South Dining Halls Friday-Lunch Saturday & Sunday-Dinner 
$1 for assorted Halloween candy to be distributed by a 
WOff 

I 

II I •
I 

1 
COMICS •DIRECT 
ill 


AP Photo

Homeless protest 
Homeless activists stage a sit-in at the Capiotol Hill office of Democratic vice presidential candidate Lloyd Bensten Tuesday afternoon. 
Soviets release only a few political prisoners 
term fits only those actually the political and religious arti­charged with political offenses, cles of the Soviet criminal code. while Washington says it also But Redman said U.S. offi­
:.._.,....,..,....._,......_..........._..._.........................,............................. cials have raised with the ji!i.! Soviets the names of some 200 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The ex­pressed intention of the Soviet Union to release all political prisoners by the end of the year may refer only to a small group of people, perhaps as few as 20, the State Department said Thursday. 
Spokesman Charles Redman said the two superpowers con­tinue to disagree on the defini­tion of exactly what constitutes a political prisoner. 
He said Moscow insists the 
r
, ~ j J .;;,/, HOURS:
ill' • 

:rill ~ 10-6 P! -/JA·~~~·~ ..a
J 
~
I 

MON-SAT 
1?13 MIAMI ST. 

SOUTH BEND. IN. 46613 
219-288-5051 
BOUGHT AND SOLO. SHIPMENT COMICS. 

Ill! •SCIENCE FICTION PAPERBACKS. ·COMIC BAGS AND BOXES.
l ~ 
should include those jailed on 
"trumped-up charges." 
"We've long pressed for the release of Soviet political prisoners," Redman told reporters. "The Soviets finally accept that there are such prisoners, but we continue to disagree on a definition." 
He said Soviet Foreign Min­ister Eduard Shevardnadze told U.S. officials during a visit to the United States last month that there were only about 40 such prisoners, all of whom had been convicted for violations of 
~prisoners, including those jailed on fabricated charges. , West German Chancellor
I
Helmut Kohl told reporters in Moscow on Wednesday that he had been assured in talks with Soviet officials that all political . prisoners would be released 
within 10 weeks. 
0. 
P. However, the Foreign Mini-
Istry spokesman, Gennady Gerasimov, refused to confirm or deny that a release of poli­tical priSOnerS iS imminent, 
Saying there are Only abOUt tWO dozen such prisoners. 
I • 
UnlblldWIIU 

:................................................................................... .....JI~----------------~ 
IHHHIHHIDIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

FRESHMAN LECTURE SERIES 
A series presented by the Freshman Year of Studies and the Colleges to add to the intellectual base from which the freshmen can plan their futures. 
VINCENT R. RAYMOND 
ASSOCIATE DEAN, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
"BEYOND THE BBA--THE WORLD OF BUSINESS" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1988 
7:30 P.M. AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH LIBRARY 
A reception will follow the lecture. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
pageS 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
assistant director of Notre 
Dame Security, to discuss the situation "to make sure thev're aware of what went on and to see if he has any suggestions for us," said Simon. 
Camblin and Simon stressed that anyone walking in the neighborhood should be cau­tious. "We've been here five years, and we're finding out this neighborhood is more dan­gerous than we ever thought," Camblin said. 
The students cited other cases of harassment involving people walking in the neighbor­hood, near The Commons, Bridget McGuire's Filling Sta­tion and other off-campus stu­dent residences. 
"People walking should be careful. I don't plan on walking to Bridget's by myself anymore, and I live a block away. Incidents like this can happen," Simon said. 
Police reports indicate a call was made at 11:50 p.m. res­ponding to a fight in the 900 block of Corby Street and a pos­sible stabbing. A total of four police reports were made, none by Notre Dame students. 
The reports list Michael Nel­son, 25, of Clinton, MA, as re­ceiving a knife wound in his up­per left arm. "The victim realized he'd been cut and went to Bridget's, where an off-duty South Bend police officer re­ported the incident at 11:50," said Kilgore. 
Nelson reported he was at a party when the attack oc­curred. He was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph's Medical Center 
Two addition~! reports of ag­gravated assault and one report of simple assault wer~
also filed from Memorial Hospital, where the victims were seeking medical assis­tance, according to Kilgore. Christopher Long, 25, of Smyrna, GA, was assaulted by a black male approximately 25 years old who was bleeding from an unknown head injury. Police reports indicate the suspect confronted Long and Roderick Cockburn, 25, also of Smyrna, in the parking lot of 
~~~:d a~o~gM~i-~:~!i~~d :~; 
suLspoencgt'ssami
.. djhueryh.ad never seen 
the suspect before. ~he suspectthen punched Long m the face, 
The Observer 

Bush maintains lead over Dukakis 
Associated Press . 
George Bush pocketed a labor endorsement Thursday and said his drive for the White House was "all about creating jobs and opportunity." Under­dog Michael Dukakis accused his GOP rival of airing nega­tive campaign commercials to "divert attention" from Reagan-Bush administration failures. 
The pollsters' daily tidings were good once again for Bush, who was reported leading 51 percent to 42 percent in a nationwide survey taken for NBC and the Wall Street Jour­nal. New polls also showed a tight race in New York, one of the country's most Democratic bastions. 
Dukakis made his way toward Harry Truman's home town of Independence, Mo., likening himself to the ''feisty little guy" who won the White House four decades ago in a storied upset. "Harry Truman was a fighter, and so am I," he said. 
In a 14-minute live interview on the CBS "Evening News," Dukakis said again and again he wants to put the government on the "side of average Americans." 
The Democrat also conceded that Bush commercials depict­ing him as weak on crime, defense and the environment had done him political harm. But he said they were also in­tended to "to divert public at­tention from the fact that this administration has probably had more corruption and mal­feasance than any in recent memory if not in history.:·· 
"This is not about who puts together the best commercials or best advertising," he said. "It's about which one of us, Mike Dukakis or George Bush, has the strength and the values to run this country." 
Bush continued his week­long emphasis on economic is­sues as he made his way down the Pacific Coast from Wash­ington to California. Along the way he accused Dukakis of trying to "fan the flames of protectionism" in comments on trade and of "trying to scare the American people by putting Japanese flags on these Amer­ican commercials of his." 
Bush won the endorsement of the 50,000-member Marine En­gineers Beneficial Association at a rally interrupted by protesters. Four were hustled away, including one whose nose was bloodied, and Bush paused in his speech long enough to remind them of the high interest rates that prevailed at the end of the Carter administration. 
"This election is all about creating jobs and opportu­nity," he said, promising to keep the economic expansion alive. 
... ·.·... ·... . . 

.· ...... 1+ KEEP THAT RIGHT LOOK ••
+ 
(Redken is allowing us to offer this special sale) • • REDKEN CREATIF •
t 25% OFF + 
+ 
• aL Shaping Lotion 12S Designing Spray Reg. 5.75 now 4.35 save 1.40 • 
24S Designing Spray 
+ + 
+ 
12L Gel Reg 7.95 now 5.95 save 2.00 • 
• 5L High Hold Mousse Reg 7.00 now 5.25 save 1.75 + 
Fast Hold Spray Reg 5.50 now 4.55 save 1.05 •

+.;;,::;.:::=--___!H...!.!:i~hwHt>~ld~S=ra~---------­
Friday, October 28, 1988 


AP Pnoto 

It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown 
Two-year-old Robert Edward Gancarz of Burlington County pulls his cart containing a 350-pound pumpkin after ceremonies at the Governor's Office in Trenton, N.J. Tuesday. The youngster's dad and uncle were recognized by the governor for growing the nation's largest pumpkin this year, a 543 pounder. 

++ ++++ + +
f + +++++++ +++ 
The systemis ~~ Ap~le ~~bi~tosh ~N with ~xdeJLent • _ 1, ~~ TUE VAllS/TV SUOP •• ·. yp-to-d~te·s····o·· ftW... ..e ...·. ...•.ri·e······n·c··· ...a.• ...·.p····.·.P .. dsy~teM ,, \ sou1T6H392B7EE7D~I~SO.sNI~R4D66. 3-7· Sale Thru November +
..• ..• •.........· a..r..... ···.··a····.Q·d··.·.e··.···.·.xpe ...·.·.e·········.·.i.. h...·• ....Iie ••
···.·•·••···•· .(3_rchitecture;AppfYtoQeoffrey$gw~r c/o Adwork$..•··• :,Wll.aFortune Benter. (9) 23Q-6757. •-* •••••++++++++++++
WE M
injuring Long's right eye and J*~*************************************************************~*** * 
left cheek, according to Kil-* · * 
gore. * ' * 
Mter being struck in the back ~ DD.ffi UffY& ~
*

of the head, Cockburn fell to * the ground and received addi-* tional blows to the face. Accor-* ding to police repor~s, the ~ suspect was carrymg a * baseball bat. * 
The suspects fled westward, * *FR/OA Y according to Kilgore. . ~REHEARSAL DINNER AT JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S FROM 
A fourth report was filed by * · 
Sheryl Kane, 23, of In-* (FREE BUFFET) SENOR KELLY'S TO FOLLOW di~napolis. ~ane reported * h'HAT· ,...,EDO INGlESS RECEPTION
bemg struck m the face by a ~ W • W 
~~~fn~e~~:rs~!~~\~:i~e:n~ ~ WHERE: AMERICAN LEGION POST 303 ~ I?arking tot during the same* h'HEN. SAT OCT 29 BPM 2AM
mc1dent. The suspect at-~ w . . . -­
~~~)~~da~ ;~:~e~~;~~t~~~~~ WHAT: $7 INCLUDES CAKE BAND BUSES
11 11 
son, accordmg to Kilgore. * "The reporting officer es~i-* WHO: CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 
mated there were 200 people m ~ 
the immediate area," said Kil-* PICK UP TIX TODAY AT SENIOR CLASS OFFICE AND HAGGAR CENTER gore. ~ AT SMC (BUSES LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE ON THE HOUR FROM 8PM-2AM) ~ [MAPS ALSO AVAILABLE AT SENIOR CLASS OFFICE]
+
American 

*
* *SliNIA"' y
Red Cross * ~ 
* Th~ (.'JLtssMass wiD M r~-s),:tJtf!duJAi Lft a J..tt~r dat~. 
~---B_e_a_v_o_Iu_n_t~__£ __~\************************************* ********** 
* * 
~ 
* 
* 
* 
~
* 
* 
* 
~ 
~ 
* 
~ 
~ 
* 
~ 
** 
~ ~ 
*
*
* *********** ~ 


House members raise $14.4, million for campaigns 
THERE'S GOING TO 

Friday, October 28, 1988 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The 58 House members facing no major party challenge to re­election have raised $14.4 mil­lion for their campaigns, and nearly half of them will be en­titled to keep any unspent money when they retire, a private study said Friday. 
The list includes such House leadership figures as Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, and Reps. Claude Pepper, D-Fla., chairman of the Rules Commit-
The Observer page7 
j US embassy in Moscow is bugged and must be rebuilt 
A"o<lated .,..,. 
WASHINGTON--President Reagan recommended Thursday that the new U.S. em­bassy in Moscow be razed and rebuilt from the ground up be­cause it is riddled with listening devices that cannot be removed. 
Reagan told reporters the United States has "no choice" in the matter "because there's no way to rid it of the many listening devices that were built into it." 
"We're going to start and have an American-built one," Reagan said of the embassy. 
At the State Department, spokesman Charles Redman said Reagan will urge Congress to permit the virtually com­pleted embassy to be demolished and reconstructed with American-made compo-
tee; John Dingell, D-Mich., chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Kika de Ia Garza, D-Texas, chairman of the Agriculture Committee. 
Forty-one of the 58 unop­posed lawmakers are Democrats, who control the House, according to the study compiled by the watchdog group Congress Watch. The $14.4 million includes $7.3 mil­lion from political action com­mittees. 
"That these PACs feel com­pelled to contribute to law­makers who have no opponent shows that what's being sought is access and influence, not compatible candidates or good government," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, the parent organiza­tion of Congress Watch. 
The legislators or their aides who were questioned defended the fund raising, arguing that campaign funds must be col­lected before they know whe­ther they will have an election nents to be shipped from the United States and stored in Moscow warehouses under the tightest possible security. He said the building will be as­sembled by U.S. workers taken to Moscow for that purpose. 
The Soviets will not be per­mitted to move into their newly built embassy in Washington until the United States can oc­cupy its facilities in Moscow, Redman said. 
He said that tearing down the existing structure and building a new one under high security conditions will involve "a very elaborate and costly process." 
"Obviously we're talking years," Redman said. 
But he said the final cost can­not now be estimated because entirely new engineering and 
opponent. 
"If you had a crystal ball, you wouldn't enter into one of these fund-raising strategies,'' said Cliff Gibbons, who is cam­paign finance manager for his father, Rep. Sam Gibbons, D­Fla. 
Congress Watch said the elder Gibbons has raised $309,537 from PACs, second highest total among the unop­posed incumbents, and $503,340 overall, the third highest mark after Rep. Martin Frost, D-Texas, and Dingell. Gibbons is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee sub­committee on trade. 
PAC are formed by corpora­tions, labor unions and other in­terest groups to funnel money to candidates, with incumbents the long-favored recipients. For the 1986 elections, accor­ding to Federal Election Com­mission records, PACs sent 88 percent of their contributions to lawmakers seeking re­election. 
architectural plans will have to be drawn up. 
He said Reagan's proposed demolition and reconstruction plan was recommended by Sec­retary of State George Shultz following several reviews of the project by U.S. experts. 
"This option offers the best overall solution to the prob­lem," Redman said. 
He said the rebuilt eight­story embassy will occupy the same site but will be different than the one recommended for demolition. The new structure will incorporate features "to take into account what we have learned" about Soviet eavesdropping capabilities, he said. 
"Every precaution will be taken to assure the security of the process," Redman said. 


BE A MURDER 
TONIGHT! 
Clue: Come to Theodore's at 9:00pm ready to dance and ready for death! 
Solve who, why, and how to win prizes 
I 
' 

Presented by SUB--Campus Entertainment and Theodore's 
r 
Friday, October 28, 1988

I page 8 The Observer 
r 
r i 
I Testing service plans new l 
r 
exam to assess teachers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--The Educa­tional Testing Service unveiled plans Thursday for a compre­hensive new teacher licensing exam, including computer simulations of classroom situ­ations, to help states weed out incompetents. 
"There is a widespread and growing concern about the preparedness and effective­ness of beginning teachers, and we believe that breakthroughs in research and technology make possible a new kind of as­sessment that will provide greater assistance, fairness and accuracy," said ETS pres­ident Gregory Anrig. 
He expressed hope that the new exam would help put to rest recurring charges by teacher unions and others that existing teacher tests don't ac­curately assess classroom skills and are unfair to minorities. 
Jane Usdan, a spokeswoman for the American Federation of Teachers, called the new test "a step in the right direction. 
Debate 

continued from page 1 
closing, citing areas such as drug abuse, child care and edu­cation as areas he will work to improve. 

Ward ended with a last stab at his opponent and stressed his own campaign as "people­oriented." "When it came time for people items, this man's (pointing to Hiler) vote was cut, cut, cut. My priorities are put the people first. Let's make sure we put people before cor­porate profits." 
About 750 attended the debate, which culminated a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's stu­dent government push to in­crease political awareness on campus, said Student Body 
President Tom Doyle. 
''By and large it was students who attended. That was the whole goal," Doyle said. "I think it's a tremendous credit to the students who set it up." 
The six-member panel in­cluded: Mike Bolles of WVFI­AM; Bill Hawkins, SUB's ideas and issues comm1s1oner; Steven Horst of the Graduate Student Union; Katherine Kol­ler of Saint Mary's student gov­ernment and Chris Murphy, editor of The Observer. 
Mike Keegan, student gov­ernment's executive coordina­tor of political, cultural and so­cial concerns, moderated the debate. 
The event was sponsored by both student governments, Col­lege Democrats, College Republicans, Student Union Board, the Graduate Student Union, WVFI-AM and The Ob­server, Doyle said. 
''A lot of student groups with different agendas put them aside for the sake of this event and that's the beauty of it," he said. "I think it's a tremendous credit to the students who set it up." 
~need somoone with the ronfidence ofaSIJ.¥00,thededicationof-amarathoner andthe murage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us all...aoo-424.SS80, Exl. 93. 

We have said we need to test teachers differently, not only on what they know but on what they can do." 
The exam is designed as a licensing tool for beginning teachers and is not intended to assess veteran teachers, Anrig stressed. 
Prototypes of the exam, as yet unnamed, will be field tested in 1990, and a final ver­sion is expected to be ready in 1992, according to the Lawren­ceville, N.J.-based testing ser­vice. 
The test eventually is ex­pected to replace the National Teacher Exam, a paper-and­pencil multiple choice test taken by some 200,000 teaching candidates a year and adminis­tered by ETS. That test, which costs from $35 to $50 depending on how many parts of it a state requires, was first offered in 1939 and is part of the teacher licensing program in 30 states. 
Unlike current teacher ex­ams, the new test is designed to be taken at three stages of a would-be teacher's training. 
The first part would use a computertotestreading,math and writing skills during or after the second year of under­graduate study. 
The second test would assess grasp of subject matter and teaching principles following completion of teacher training. 
Beginning teachers would !1. take a third test to evaluate how well they perform in actual classrooms once they have had some supervised teaching ex­perience. It would include ob­servation of teaching perfor­mance and computer simulations of classroom situ­ations. 
"The evaluation may extend over a period of time for a prospective teacher, giving states a much better sense of professional development," said Carol Dwyer, an ETS senior development leader who created the new test. "The The right to vote method also allows the student 
Residents of Soweto, in Johannesburg, South Africa, look for their 
to find out early whether he or 
names on the voters role in order to cast their ballots for a municipal
she meets the prerequisites 
representative in Wednesday's nationwide municipal elections, which
needed to teach while there is 
have been marked by tight security, sporadic bombings, and partial
still time to improve or make 
stayaways.
other career plans." 
Thanks to MCI, leadership is within your grasp. 
MCI Communications Corporation is a company with a history of creating change. 
For us, change means providing consumers with a better quality of service for all of their communications needs. 
Change means being more responsive to residential customers-making them feel that their business is welcome and providing them with greater value. 
Change means taking an aggressive stance with our business customers-seeking out ways to lower their cost of communications while improving the technologies that serve their business. 
Thanks to MCI, you have the opportunity to create change as an integral element in your career. And that can make all the difference. 
MCI believes that people like you can create a tremendous future in a company like ours. Find out more about our training programs and the career paths we can offer you. We will be interviewing on campus for entry.:· level positions in: 
Customer Service 
SEE US ON CAMPUS Monday, Nov. 14th 

Check with your Placement Office for details and sign-up. If unable to interview on campus, please write to: MCI Midwest, Human Resources Department, 205 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 60601. Equal Opportunity Employer M/F. 
I

MCI® 
Let us show you~M 


--~~--------------------------~------------­
Viewpoint
Friday, October 28, 1988 
page 9 

P.O. Box Q 

United Way seeks aid 

Dear Editor: 
r The students of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame create and envelop them­selves in a thriving community, seeking personal growth and enriching their lives. As part of that community, it is easy to see that we are all blessed with many gifts, and part of our growth stems from sharing those gifts with others. In the first week of October, United Way of St. Joseph County turned to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame for sup­
port. It is important that as students we recognize the larger community of which we are also a part. 
L.ast year, United Way served over 70,000 people through 36 agencies in St. Joseph County. Their service truly reflects a state of compassion and good­will which would not be possible without the people concerned with health and social needs, people who are willing to care for and embrace the less for­tunate. Our efforts are directed toward such agencies as the American Red Cross, Catholic Social Services, Good­will, Logan, and many others who are warmly appreciative. 
This year, I hope that as a whole, we may extend ourselves to the call of our larger community. The campaign for Saint Mary's ends Nov. 14, and Nov. 17 for Notre Dame. See your section rep­resentative to make a gift. Their names may be obtained through your residence assistant. 
"United way is more than a great way to give, it's the best way to care." Let us continue to share our gifts with others. 
Lisa M ontpetit LeMans Hall Saint Mary's United Way Student Coordinator Oct. 27, 1988 
Weekend Wheels provides safety 
Dear Editor: 
We are not writing this article to try to shock you with statistics as to why you should not drink and drive. You all have heard the horrifying facts before. However, like so many other things in life, most people have the attitude that the tragedy will never happen to them. 
Doonesbury 
That is a dangerous attitude to take, one that may cost you your life. Notre Dame has not been spared from the tragedy of drunk driving in the past, but maybe it can be prevented in the future. This is why the Hall Presidents' Council is sponsoring the transporta­tion service of Weekend Wheels. 
We realize that many people think that it is not too far to drive home from the bars, and they will be fine. Just think for a moment of the danger you are putting yourself as well as everyone else on the road in. 
We realize in the past people may not have viewed this service (formerly the Buzz Bus) as a viable option. We have tried very hard to work within the con­straints that have been placed on us to make it more useful. The hours have been expanded, and the stops will soon be more recognizable with permanentsigns. 
When you are ready to leave the bar or a party, ride home safely on Weekend Wheels. If you drove to the destination and think that you are OK to drive home, think again. We realize that it is an inconvenience to leave your car where it is overnight, but it is better to leave your car than lose your life or that of another. 
Weekend Wheels is free to everyone and is easy to ride. There will be five stops this year: Campus View, Five Points, St. Louis and Corby St., Main Circle and Library Circle. The bus can take you home safely and with ab­solutely no hassle. Please look for posters to see the exact times for pick­up. The bus will run every Friday and Saturday night so please take advan­tage of it. Also, the first 100 riders will each receive a free T -shirt. 
Michelle LaRose Kerstin White Co-Chairs, Hall Presidents Council Oct. 27, 1988 
Dukakis stance shows deception 
Dear Editor: 
The second presidential debate on Oct. 13 between Michael Dukakis and George Bush, was important for the American people for many reasons. It was especially remarkable for being one of very few occasions that either candidate acknowledged the issue of abortion. Prompted by a reporter's question, Dukakis replied to Bush's po-

04, THAT'S RIGHT, I CAN. leT'S 5/5&... HE'S 5/lY!N~.. 
sition of favoring a ban on abortion except in cases of rape, incest, and dan­ger to the mother's life: "Isn't the real question that we have to answer, not how many exceptions we have to make, because the vice president himself is prepared to make exceptions? It's who makes the decision. 
"Who makes this very difficult, very 
wrenching decision? And I think it has 
to be the woman, in the exercise of her 
own conscience and religious beliefs, 
that makes the decision." 
I must confess that, even though I believe in the right to life of unborn children, I was momentarily paralyzed by this statement. Perhaps many people accepted this argument as reasonable. However, after some thought, I have discovered why this statement is paralyzing. The question the governor puts to himself and then answers is meaningless. You cannot di­rectly refute Dukakis' answer to the question he posed because the asking of the question, and our willingness to be asked the question, requires that we swallow a big, fat assumption. Who should make this decision? Who says there has to be a decision? Let us look at what Mr. Dukakis wants us to accept without any discussion or debate. 
Every decision results from a freedom. The freedom in this case is to kill a baby whose only crime is that it now happens to be living in his or her mother's womb. Therefore, to give any answer to the question requires that you believe in a freedom to kill a certain class of living human individuals. The question is, upon analysis, circular, il­logical and absurd, to anyone that believes that freedom may have limits. 
Upon examination the logic evaporates. Dukakis tries to persuade, but assumes everybody already agrees and inconvenient. Surely, any just so­lutions to the social problems implied by the answers would be complicated, and point to considerable change. Real­ly, Mr. Dukakis must think American folks just aren't ready for that respon­sibility, that decision, and that freedom. It's better to avoid the central issues of abortion all together. 
Eloquent language by political fig­ures, like the illogical statement of Mr. Dukakis, can be very powerful in per­suading people to condone abortion. Be­hind such language is subtle, grave deception. 
Timothy L. Fischer Off-campus Oct. 27, 1988 
Article stoops to chauvinism 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to thank Glenn Fogarty for his Viewpoint article of Oct. 26 en­titled, "On desk graffiti, football, and flowers," in which he expressed his dis­like for a football cheer by writing "Only a woman or some type of fairy could have made up that monstrosity." Sometimes it is difficult to give con­crete examples of bigotry in our com­munity, but Mr. Fogarty has provided us with a classic. Whether or not he realized it, women, gays, and lesbians are a vital part of the Notre Dame com­munity who, as his words demonstrate, are often the victims of prejudice and oppression. Next time Mr. Fogarty can't come up with a "worthwhile topic" for his column, he shouldn't write one. Only a homophobic chauvinist could have made up his latest piece, and such an author isn't worth reading. 
Julie Coyle 
Walsh Hall 
Oct. 27, 1988 

with his opinion. By doing this he avoids .-----------------, asking any meaningful questions; he The 0 bse rver reta i n s avoids having to engage in any substan-th . ht t ed•t aII 
tive discussion. e rl g 0 1 
This quote is a good example of the COmmentarieS SUbmit­subtle deception which has been prac-~ d h V· · 
ticed by political figures who speak on lle t0 t e IeW p0 I n t aborti~n an~ women's rights. Is t~is department. Please decept~on umntended, ~r. purposeful.. n0 t e the b r i e fe r t he 
I beheve that Dukak1s 1s not alone m being afraid to. ask meaningful, ~ore piece, the greater its relevant questions to the Amencan II'hanC e S 0 f r e a C h i n Q
people. The "dreaded" answers would I" . just make things difficut, expensive ~~:IP::..:r:...:l:.:n..:.t.:.:•:_____________. 
Garry Trudeau 
HMM... 
MU5T8&A ..."REAP tOT OF U5 MY. .. UPS/'' ().}Ttj/{)8 70­

Editorial Board 

Editor·in-Chief ---·--------------------Chris MurphyManaging Editor__ _____ Chris Donnelly 
News Editor------------------Regis Coccia 
News Editor ___________ , _ _, .... _, ____ .._______ Mark McLaughlin 'liewpoint Editor _________ _,_, ___ ________________ Matt Slaughter ~ports Editor_, ______ .. ______ ---------__ -------·----Marty Strasen 
~ccent Editor-------------------·----------------------Beth Healy
Saint Mary's Editor____ ..................... Sandy Cerimele 
Photo Editor___ ----------..............-Michael Moran 
Quote of the Day 
"True enjoyment comes from activity of the mind and exercise of the body; the two are ever united." 
Humboldt 
Operations Board 
Business Manager___ -----John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ----------------Molly Killen Advertising Manager ____ ,____ _. ....... Unda Goldschmidt Production Manager__ _._. ..........______ Bernadene Shilts Systems Manager ________ Mark Ridgeway Controller____ ---------------· ·---------______ Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager___ ________ -------Marga Bruns 

Founded November 3,1966 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College_ It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution-The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repJesent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board_ Commentaries. teners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available 10 all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners. is encouraged. 
~ --------------·---------~------------------· 

SCOTT KAHNEY accent writer 

k 
eith Richards, one of rock-n-roll's original rebels, seems to have matured and come into his own with his first solo effort, Talk is Cheap. This album, released last week, reveals a confident and powerful artist who, until recently, pledged never to leave the Rolling Stones to do solo work. 
Talk is Cheap provided a desperately needed creative outlet for Richards during the time the Stones were forced to take a back seat to Mick Jagger's ill-fated solo wander­ings. 
The anger and desertion Richards felt towards Jagger are apparent in the song "You Don't Move Me." Keith blatantly attacks Mick with lines such as "Now you wanna throw the dice. You already crapped out twice." 

Though "You Don't Move Me " provides an interesting look into the complex Jag­geli'Richards relationship, this album does much more than fan the fire of the ever­burning argument between Mick and Keith. It provides Richards with freedom to ex-
Calvin and Hobbes 

Away," explores the age-old dilemma of male-female relationships. This song, with its acoustic guitar and violin, paints a moody and con­templative, almost psychotic, picture of a man in love. 
Though Richards explores new musical styles on Talk is Cheap, he did not attempt to abandon the sound he has perfected during 25 years with the Rolling Stones. Songs like "Take it So Hard," "Struggle," and the riveting 

"It Means A Lot" remind us that Richards has been, and remains, the musical back­bone of one of rock-n-roll's greatest bands. 
This album is not, however, a Rolling Stones album. It is a strong, well-rounded solo effort by a musician in limbo. Talk is Cheap has assured the musical world that there is passion left in this 44-year-old musician. Mark my words: we shall hear from Keith Ric­hards again, with or without the Stones. 
Bill Watterson 

plore a wide variety of musi­cal styles. 
Talk is Cheap opens with a strange, but very successful wander into the world of funk. Richards combines his vocals and guitar with some of James Brown's band to come up with the hot and jumpy "Big Enough." The re­sulting mixture is good enough to get you up and dan­cing. 
"Make No Mistake," this album's best track, has Keith's eerie vocals working 
together with the peaceful and soft voice of Sarah Dash. The Memphis Horns, Robert Cray's horn section, provide a strong backbone for the sing­ers' slow but passionate vocal interplay. 
Richards also takes a fun jaunt down nostalgia row with the Rockabilly tune "I Could Have Stood You Up." Johnnie Johnson's light and happy piano solos combine with Keith's love of 50s style rock­n-roll to make this song work well. 
Another highlight, "Locked 



SPECIAL TO THE OBSERVER 
S
otavento, a Latin American musical ensemble which per­forms in a variety of traditional and con­temporary musical styles, will give a concert Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum. 
Sotavento (the Spanish word for "leeward") was formed in 1981. Until the release of its third album, Cuciani, last spring, Sotavento had toured mainly in the Midwest, but the group has recently performed on the East Coast and in Canada as well. Based in Madison, Wis­consin, the ensemble consists of six musicians: Orlando Cabrera of Puerto Rico (percussion and marimba); Anne Frailoli of the United States (tranverse flute, quena, sikus and vocals); Jaime Gusicafre of El Sal­vador (guitar, bass and tiple); Francisco Lopez of Mexico (charango, rhythm guitar, strings and sikus); Josue Pizarro of Puerto Rico (guitar, bass, tiple and vo­cals); and Sylvia Ramirez of the United States (violin, quena, sikus and vocals). 
Sotavento uses indigenous and ancient instruments to 
iSOTA 
combine traditional styles of Latin American music with western jazz and classical forms. The lyrics used by the 
band reflect current events and encourage an understand­ing of people through music. Through the combination of Latin American folkloric traditions and contemporary influences, Sotavento presents a very powerful musical ex­perience. 
Not only will the group share their culturally diverse sound with Notre Dame this Sunday, but it will also offer 

----~-------~-~-----­
~-----~--­

----------~------------------­
at 
Time 
12:10 p.m. EDT, 11:10 a.m. COT 
WGN-TV (Dan Roan, Paul Hornung, John Mengelt) WNDU-TV
TV & 
Mutual Radio Network

Radio (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) WVFI-AM 640 (Kevin McCormack and Steve Trepiccione) 
Game is sold outTickets (capacity 60, 194) 
AP Rankings Notre Dame 2nd Navy unranked 
Notre Dame leads, 51-9-1Series First game in 1927 
October 31 , 1987
Last Game 
Notre Dame 56, Navy 13 

Johnson changes jobs in ND Stadium 
By STEVE MEGARGEE moved from tailback to ful­Assistant Sports Editor lback, but he still has a knack for reaching the endzone. 
Anthony Johnson has spent The 6-foot, 225-pounder led more than his share of Satur­the team with 11 touchdowns days at Notre Dame Stadium. last season. During a junior 
The South Bend native spent season that has been beset by his weekends starring for the injury problems, Johnson dem­Adams High School football onstrated his return to form team and working as a mes­last Saturday with another one senger to the ushers at Irish of his trademark touchdowns. home games. But Johnson He broke an Air Force tackle never thought he someday at the last possible moment and would be coming to the burst to the endzone for a 12­Stadium as one of Notre yard score. Dame's top running backs. "You look at the Air Force 
"I didn't think I'd play for a game and there were two major college team," said the linebackers trying to tackle junior fullback. "I was him, and the next thing you surprised when I was contacted know, he pops out and scores," by teams. I was surprised that said Strong. "When Anthony I could play for them." Johnson's healthy, he's as good 
Once he signed with Notre an inside runner as there prob­Dame, not many people, in­ably is in college football. It's cluding Johnson himself, hard for one man to tackle figured he would see much him." The Obeerver I Trey Reymond playing time early. But The Irish now have a 
Notre Dame fullback Anthony Johnson breaks tory over the Midshipmen. Steve Megargee fea­
Johnson played the most penchant for giving Johnson the 
through the Navy defense In last year's Irish vic-tures the hard-nosed junior at left.
minutes of any freshman ball when they are near the during the 1986 season and has goal line or are in short yar­grown to be an integral part of dage situations, but he takes the Irish offensive backfield. the role in stride. 
Lyght shining in secondary
"It surprised me greatly," "I attribute that (the touch­Johnson said of his freshman downs) to the other people on 
season, in which he was the the team," said Johnson. "I'm Former flanker now punishing receivers as CB second-leading Irish rusher just in the right place at the with 349 yards on 80 carries. "I right time.. " By GREG GUFFEY defense, has done little wrong as any in the country. expected to contribute on the Johnson had to miss all the Sports Writer on the field this season. Lyght 'If somebody goes down the kicking game or perhaps just preseason scrimmages this fall teams with short cornerback person behind him can step in in practice." because of a sprained ankle. He When he needed to make the Stan Smagala to stop both the and do the job," Lyght said. Irish running backs coach was able to play the season biggest decision of his life, rushing and passing attacks of "We have a lot more speed this Jim Strong understands why opener against Michigan, but Todd Lyght knew whom to ask opposing offenses. year." Johnson has played so far resprained the ankle early in for advice. About the only criticism di­above original expectations. the Michigan State game and Most high school football In seven Notre Dame vic­rected at Lyght is that neither "Sometimes you go across was kept out of action until the players make their own deci­tories, Lyght has recorded 23 he nor Smagala has an inter­the country for prospects, then team's fourth game against sion about which college to at­tackles with a season-high ception in seven outings. In all of a sudden here's a Stanford. tend. But Lyght isn't just an­seven coming against Air reality, though, that may be homegrown product," said Since coming back, Johnson other football player. Force last weekend. more of a compliment than a Strong. "Since he was a local has scored touchdowns against Lyght, an AdidaS'Scholastic criticism. player, the recruiters knew Stanford, Pittsburgh and Air Coach All-American from Mic­"We hear that every day," everything about him, like Force. He has gained 182 yards higan, wa~ recruited by such Lyght said of the lack of inter­when he may have had a bad on 47 carries while sharing collegiate powerhouses as Mic­ceptions. "What happens is game or an average game. time at fullback with classmate higan, UCLA, USC and Notre that we have a guy covered so When you go away to recruit, Braxston Banks. The two ful­Dame. That decision (three of well they don't throw it, or if the coach tells you how good lbacks have mostly run inside, those four schools are compet­they do throw, there's a weak­his player is and shows you a setting up the outside game for ing for a national title this ness in the coverage." film of his best game against tailbacks Mark Green and year) became too much for The emergence to defensive weak opposition. Tony Brooks. Lyght to make on his own. He superiority has not been as "It's like your wife," Strong "We help each other out a turned to his family for help easy for Lyght as it may seem. continued. "You know all her lot," Johnson said of the rotat­and he is grateful that their The 6-1 sophomore from Flint, good qualities and bad points, ing backfield. "Who plays is response was the right one. Mich., came to Notre Dame as too. With someone you date, based on who's tired, who's ca­"I'm very close to my fam­a flanker. At that spot as a high you may go out with her once pable of playing, who's hurt ily," Lyght said. "Everyone school senior, he caught 38 in a month and think she's and who's not." thought the best decision would passes for 877 yards and nine great." For all the attention Johnson be to come to Notre Dame. If touchdowns. Lyght also played Johnson tied Pernell Taylor is getting on the football field I listen to them, I can't go defensive back for Luke M. for the team lead with seven now, he was just as imposing wrong." Powers High School, intercept-rushing touchdowns during his And Lyght, the starting field 
see JOHNSON, page 3 see LYGHT, page 4
freshman season. He has since cornerback for the Irish 




page 2 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
At first glance, Notre Dame's upcom­ing game with the Navy Midshipmen on Saturday has the makings of a rout. 
And even if you stare at it for a while longer, the bulk of the excitement at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore will probably be centered around whether or not the Irish cover the 34 points they're favored by. 
But, never one to look ahead, Head Coach Lou Holtz chooses to look at the worst-case scenario. 
"The Naval Academy is a well­disciplined team," said Holtz. "They're very similar to the Air Force Academy in that they run out of the wishbone, but they're much bigger on offense and much bigger on defense than the Air Force Academy. They have two fine quarterbacks and statistically, over the whole year, they're rather impressive. 
"Last week Navy lost to Pitt by a decided margin (52-6), but Pitt had to punt six times, had two turnovers and scored on a lot of big plays. We're not necessarily a big-play type of football team. You never know what to expect when you go on the road, but I do think our players will be ready to play well and play hard." 
A few additional points might lend 
more credence to the expectation of an 
Irish rout: 
• 
The Midshipmen are 3-4 on the year, but they have not defeated a Division lA school since 1986. Their three wins came at the expense of James Madison, Delaware and Yale. Navy has lost to Temple (12-7), The Citadel (42-35), Air Force (34-24), and Pitt. 

• 
Notre Dame and Navy will lengthen the longest continuous intersectional rivalry in the country when they square off Saturday, and in the 61 games played between the squads thus far the Irish are 51-9-1. That includes victories in the last 24 straight, dating back to 1963 when Roger Staubach led Navy to a 35-14 win at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish own more victories over Navy than any other team in Notre Dame history. 

• 
Last year the Irish scored the first six times they had the ball, building a 35-6 halftime lead and going on to win 56-13 over Navy. This year, Notre Dame is 7-0 and ranked No. 2 in the country in both the AP and UPI national polls. 


But if you're going to look at trends, in fairness to the Middies, the last time Navy faced a team ranked No. 2 in the nation it won 38-21 over South Carolina back in 1984. And Navy went 4-6-1 that year. 
Just a thought. 
Navy offense vs. Notre Dame defense 

In a surprise move last week against Pitt, the Middies started sophomore 

Elliot Uzelac Navy Coach 

Elliot Uzelac is in his second year as Navy's head football coach, and says he has high hopes for the program's future despite his 2-9 record last year and a 3-4 start this season. 
Irish Extra: The Game 
Gary Mcintosh at quarterback in place of Alton Grizzard, who was the team's leading rusher out of the wishbone of­fense. Grizzard will move to flanker against the Irish and Mcintosh should again get the starting nod. 
Mcintosh is 22-of-52 for 319 yards and two touchdowns on the year, while rush­ing for 193 yards and four touchdowns on 51 carries. 
In the Navy backfield, the wishbone alignment includes senior halfback Luther Archer (69 rushes for 358 yards and a touchdown), junior halfback James Bradley (54 for 264, three TDs), and senior fullback Bert Pangrazio (42 for 151, one TD). Sophomore fullback Deric Sims also will see action. 
The top Middie receiver is senior flanker Carl Jordan (21 catches for 371 yards and 4 TDs). Junior Shane Smith will handle the split end duties, and Grizzard (two catches for 35 yards last week against Pitt) will supplement the receiving corps. 
On the offensive line, tackles Mike Kircher and senior Tim Hofacre lead a young but improved Navy front. Hofacre is the only returning regular in the Middies' offensive line, but also is considered one of the best linemen in the east. 
The Irish defense is coming off of several impressive showings, most recently the limitation of Air Force's vaunted wishbone attack to only 13 points and 216 total yards (46 passing)­-far below its previous season averages of 46 points and 522 yards per game. And although Miami QB Steve Walsh had a career-best day passing against Notre Dame, the Irish defense yielded only 57 yards on the ground and forced seven turnovers against the Hur­ricanes. The defense may need another good effort to repel Navy's 17th-ranked rushing attack, but that kind of effort is likely. 
Freshman Arnold Ale is again ex­pected to compete with Flash Gordon and Andre Jones for playing time at de­fensive end. Nose guard Chris Zorich has 46 tackles and three fumble recoveries on the year. 
Thethreesome of Wes Pritchett, Mi­chael Stonebreaker and Ned Bolcar will again split the majority of time at the linebacker spots. Among the three, they have registered 175 tackles, four sacks and three interceptions. 
"Last week I thought the secondary responded very, very well to Air Force's wishbone," said Holtz. "Going into our game, Air Force had had 33 plays of 25 yards or more. Against us they had one play of 22 yards and other than that they did not have a play of above 15 yards. That's a tribute to all five of those guys who played in the secondary.'' 
Notre Dame offense vs. Navy defense 
.. 
~ 

Anthony Johnson and the Irish enter Baltimore's Memorial Stadium an over­whelming favorite against a Navy team 
after Saturday's fly-by of Air Force, it 
was the kicking game. 
"The kicking game was disappoint­
ing certainly," said Holtz. "On our 
kickoffs, the coverage left a lot to be 
desired and that's something we've 
really addressed this week. Anything 
good that may have come out of our 
long punt returns of late was negated 
by (Ricky Watters') fumbled punt Sat­
urday. And we mishandled a snap for 
a point-after attempt. 
"So there are just little thingS in the 
kicking game that have really bothered 
me. We certainly didn't execute as well 
as we're going to have to." 
The running game continues to be the driving force (13th in the country at 259 yards per game) behind the offensive success of the Irish, including the emer­gence of Tony Brooks, who is 50th in the country in rushing despite playing with a broken bone in his foot. 
"Brooks obviously has become an outstanding running back," said Holtz. "He would have exceeded my expecta­tions for him at this point even if his foot wasn't broken. I had written him off earlier in the year, but he must have one heck of a high pain threshold." 
Brooks and Mark Green will split ac­tion again at tailback and Anthony Johnson gets the nod at fullback. Braxston Banks' knee is still ailing and 
that has not defeated a Division lA squad since 1986. 
Quarterback Tony Rice is 43-of-84 for 719 yards, six touchdowns and five in­terceptions. Perhaps just as important are his 78 rushes for 470 yards and seven touchdowns. 
The deep threats of Watters and Rag­bib "Rocket" Ismail have caught a combined 19 passes for 402 yards and three touchdowns. 
Mike Heldt will man the center spot, while co-captain Andy Heck and Dean Brown will start at tackles. Junior guard Tim Grunhard is still feeling the effects of an ankle injury and might not see action this weekend to give the ankle time to heal. In that event, Tim Ryan would be moved to right guard and either Mike Brennan or Winston Sandri would take over at left guard. 
Navy's defensive strength is against the pass, where it ranks sixth in the country, yielding only 123 yards a game through the air. That is also the amount the Irish have averaged passing through seven games. 
The Middie secondary includes Scott Carson and Jim Chatfield at the corners while Rodney Brown and Bob Weissen­fels hold down the safety slots. But the Irish probably will do most of their moving on the ground against a young defensive line and linebacking corps. 
Expect another grind-'em-out Irish effort with a lot of effective off-tackle running plays. The larger Notre Dame offensive and defensive lines should wear down their game but outmatched 
The Observer I File Photo 

"It will take some time," says the former  Bert  Pangrazlo  (coming  straight  ahead)  was  a  walk-on  wishbone attack. Pangrazlo was named the most Improved  
head coach of Western Michigan, "but  linebacker before making the switch to fullback for the Mid·  Middle In spring practice.  
we'll turn this thing around."  shipmen, where he now carries the ball out of the Navy  

~---~ 

Irish Extra 

~ 
.. 
-

. Navy gave 1976 Irish a scare
"
1 
' 

Devine's squad aviods upset with 27-21 victory 
By VIC LOMBARDI until his quarterback's arm fell Early in the fourth quarter, Sports Writer off. Middie signal-caller Bob the Middies capitalized on a Leszczynski completed 21 Slager interception as Reggie
As many coaches will attest, passes for 294 total yards as he Thompson burst in from one­the best remedy for an over­unloaded 45 attempts in all. yard out to cut the lead 24-21. confident team is an old­The Middies overwhelmed The Irish marched right back fashioned whipping by an un-the Irish defense as they struck on the following series and derdog. Or even a twice in the second period with settled for a 24-yard field goaldown-to-the-wire contest their air arsenal. Leszczynski by Dave Reeve, his second of against a longshot, a loser, a connected with wingback Dave the game. no-hoper. King (10 receptions for 179 The Midshipmen had a 
These are the games that yards) in the endzone to break chance to take the lead and the 
keep great teams honest. the Irish defense's streak of 21 game with just under five touchdown quarters without a minutes remaining. touchdown and put the Middies 
Time tV\ 
up 7-3. Navy extended its lead Leszczynski riddled the Irish Capsule V to 14-3 as Leszczynski adminis­defenders and drove his team tered a five-play drive that cul­to Notre Dame's 16-yard line. In 1976, Coach Dan Devine's minated in a one-yard plunge On fourth and two, Leszczynski 11th-ranked Notre Dame squad by Larry Klawinski. eluded a furious rush by the ~·~-~ was ready to add another notch After that, Notre Dame quar­Irish defense and launched a
·::::3 ...., "" 
in the win column when the terback Rick Slager (12 com­pass into the end zone for Steve 
-~ "' ,, Irish were made 24-point pletions for 241 yards) and his Scott. favorites against a lowly Navy receiving counterpart Dan Kel­The ball never got there. At foe. But the 1-6 Midshipmen leher (seven catches for 162 the last second, Notre Dame startled the Irish with a potent yards) helped get the Irish defensive back Dave Waymer passing attack and nearly back in the game. Slager hit deflected the ball and pulled off what would have Kelleher and Al Hunter on prevented what could have been one of the most stunning scoring tosses while Hunter ran been humiliating Irish defeat. upsets in Irish football history. in another to give Notre Dame 
The OblerwrI File F'tlotl 
Notre Dame managed a 27-21 a 24-14 advantage. Devine was "I think we outplayed Notre 
Notre Dame linebacker Bob Crable and the 19761rlsh football team 
squeaker. forced to go with the pass be­Dame," said a dejected
fended off a threat from unheralded Navy to earn a 27-21 victory 
Navy Coach George Welsh cause of injuries to key running Leszczynski. "I think today we 
over the Midshipmen. VIc Lombardi recalls that game In Time Cap­
had one strategy in mind backs Jerome Heavens and were a better team than they
sule at right. 
against Notre Dame: to throw Terry Eurick. were." 
Johnson 
continued from page 1 
a presence on the soccer field back at Adams High. He cap­tained both teams in high school. 
"Soccer was to help me out for football with conditioning and balance," said Johnson. "I did pretty well in both sports, but not well enough to succeed in college." 
Or so he thought. Now it ap­pears as though those soccer skills may allow Johnson to take on another role with the Irish football squad. After han­dling the last two kickoffs of the Air Force game, Johnson has worked on field goals, punts and kickoffs during this week's practices. 
"We're looking at him as a kickoff man," said Strong. "He's a versatile athlete. I know this--if that (soccer) is 
­
what helped him develop as a Notre Dame cornerback Todd Lyght (right) chases down Air Force and Greg Guffey features the hard-hitting sophomore, beginningplayer, we ought to get more 
quarterback Dee Dowis In the 41-13 Irish victory last weekend. Lou on Irish Extra page 1. 
of our players involved in soc­
Holtz says Lyght Is as fine a defensive back as any he has coached, 


cer.'' 
HALFBACK HALFBACKA_ 32 James Bradley A_ 24 Luther ArcherNavy Offense ,.. 23 Rodney Purifoy ,.. 28 Jason Pace 
FULLBACK ~ 
31 Bert Pangra:tio34 Derlc Sims

SPUTEND 
85 Shane Smith 
QUARTERBACK ~ TACKlE
60 Jerry Dawson 
16 Alton Grizzard ,-. 74 Greg Hlatky 15 Gary Mcintosh 50 KtMn Fl)'nn 
TIGHT END

TACKLE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
87 Kl!VinVoStl
57 Mike Kircher 

CENTER 98 Pave ~rghvn
71 Stacey Overlin 67 Dan Bishop 68 Bob Friedman
GUARD GUARD 
75 Mike Sweeney 62 Tim Hofacre 78 Mike Maier 52 Anthony Kawa 
NOSE TACKLE 
COA..;;;e::.l ti& tJ tl-b ~~K 
1 Todd Lyght INSIDE UNEBACK!R$4 14 INSIDE UHEBACKEA 2$ stan Sm.agala
33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike Stonebre$l<er 32 D'Juan Francisco
A A...
36 Donn Grimm 47 Ned Bo!car . 
FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 
15 PatTerrell bti1 bti1. 27 George S1root&r .'·31 Corny Southall Q!) (;,!.) ::!6 Gl'$0 Oavis 
P 
TAt..BACK 24 Mark Green 
40 tony Brooks 

··lriJh Offtna$. .·.•
P 
FULLBACK 
22 Anthon)' Johnson 39 Braxton Banks 
Fl.AHKER 
SPI.I'TEND

12 Ricky Watters QUARTERBACK 
25 Raghlb Ismail

13 Pat Eilers {A). 9 Tony Alee 
80 SteVe Alaniz

1'IGtl1' EHO TACKLE R 17 ~~ Grallramf\ 86 Derl.lk Brown 66 Andy Hetk TACKLE 
r """P i)p-p p p~::: 
GUARD ~'kldt GUARD 
·52 Tim Ryan 76 Gene McGuire 75 Tim Grunhard 64 Mike Breonan 61 Tom Gorman 
MIDDLE GUARD
Navy Defense 'TACKLE 51 Mdy K'll'kland 'TACKLE 54 ~ 11$ppat 59 Cll!'i$ Gral'lam 76 Troy HOIIaml 7~ Mike Chiist 70 Dave ChriSUil 
DEFENSIVE ENO··· L •
46 David LoWe • 48 Jim Kirk 
STRONG SAFETY 
13 Rodney Brown 3 Dave Lerd'1 
Observer Graphic I Annette Rowland 


Irish Extra
page 4 

Lyght continued from page 1 ing 19 passes during his career. The Ann Arbor News named Lyght the best player in the state after his senior season. Early in his freshman season, Lyght moved from flanker to help a struggling and injury-riddled defensive sec­ondary. After cornerback Brandy Wells injured a knee in the opener against Michigan and Corny Southall tore a knee ligament against Pittsburgh, the playing time mounted for Lyght.  "We didn't have too much depth at defensive back," Lyght said. "I did whatever helped the team. Now, I like defense a lot better. It's nice to be giving the licks out." Lyght played in all12 games last year, starting at free safety against Air Force and Miami. He recorded 21 solo tackles and had eight assists. He also boasts blazing speed, evidenced by his high school letters in track as a hurdler and sprinter. Heading into spring practice, Lyght was listed on the second team behind Francisco. That  was all the incentive he needed. Francisco started the opener against Michigan, but Lyght has started every game since. "I just played harder and tried to do the things I knew I could do," Lyght said. "After coming out this year and working with the No. 2 defense, it gave me a lot of incentive to get back on the No. 1 defense." Much of the credit for the performance of the secondary goes to first-year coach Chuck Heater. The practices are more demanding, but according to Lyght the Irish have a new­found intensity under Heater.  Lyght shows that intensity both on and off the field. Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz has taken notice of his play, saying after the Stanford game that Lyght was as fine a defensive back as he's been around. "I'm pleased that he thinks I have that kind of ability, but I have a long way to go," Lyght said. "It's the very little things, footwork, drops, reading the wide receiver and the quarter­back." Lyght is the youngest of three children, the last in a long line of athletic relatives. His father, William, played basketball at  Morgan State, his brother, Trent, was a swimmer at Arizona State and his sister, Cheryl, was a swimmer at Rochester. Ifthe Irish continue their current play, the Lyght team could soon boast a nac tional championship member. Even in the heat of that na­tional championship drive, Lyght, a business major, can see beyond the tunnels lined with possible title banners. "My studies are very, very important," Lyght said. "I can't play football forever." Indeed, Lyght is not just an­other football player.  
IRISH STATS  NAVY STATS  SCHEDULES  
...-.  TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP TOTAL OFFENSE 2678 2127 YARDS Total Plays 487 457 Yards per Play 5.50 4.65 Yards per Game 382.6 303.9 PENALTIES-YARDS 36-326 46-352 FUMBLES-LOST 10-7 12-9 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 148 121 By Rushing 97 43 By Passing 39 69 By Penalty 12 9 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 47-94 31-94 Percentage 50.0 33.0 POSSESSION TIME 223:57 196:03 Minutes per Game 32:00 28:00 SCORING G TO PA R-PA s FG TP Ho 7 0 25-27 0-0 0 8-10 49 Rice 7 7 0-0 1-1 0 0-0 44 Green 7 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Watters 7 4 0-0 0-0 o o-o 24 Brooks 7 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Johnson 7 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 D.Brown 7 2 0-0 0-0 o o-o 12 Banks 7 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Eilers 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Culver 7 1 o-o 0-0 o o-o 6 Ismail 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Terrell 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Stonebrkr 7 1 0-0 0-0 o o-o 6 Hackett 7 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-2 4 Team 7 0 0-1 o-o oo-o 0 NO 7 30 26-29 1-1 0 9-12 235 OPP 7 12 11-12 0-1 0 7-9104 RUSHING NOYDS AVG TO LG Brooks 83 529 6.4 1 52 Green 91 431 4.7 4 26 Rice 78 404 5.2 7 38  Johnson 47 182 3.9 3 22 Culver 14 83 5.9 1 36 Banks 18 48 2.7 1 6 Belles 8 45 5.6 0 18 Watters 20 40 2.0 0 14 Setzer 8 23 2.9 0 12 Eilers 5 20 4.0 1 7 K.Graham 4 12 3.0 0 5 P.Graham 4 10 2.5 0 9 Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 Mihalko 2 5 2.5 0 3 Jarosz 2 -2 -1.0 0 0 Ebert 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4 Team 1 -21 -21.0 0 -21 NOTRE DAME 3881814 4.7 18 52 OPPONENTS 246 785 3.2 4 31 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Rice 84 43 .512 5 719 6 Belles 4 2 .500 0 84 2 K.Graham 9 6 .667 2 45 0 P.Graham 2 1 .500 0 16 0 NO 99 52 .525 7 864 8 OPP 211 116 .550 121342 A RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Watters 11 215 19.6 2 50 Ismail 8 187 23.4 1 57 D.Brown 7 85 12.1 2 26 Green 6 78 13.0 0 38 Brooks 5 120 24.0 2 42 Eilers 5 55 11.0 0 13 Banks 3 45 15.0 1 30 Alaniz 2 49 24.5 0 26 Johnson 2 22 11.0 0 13 A. Smith 1 4 4.0 0 4 K.Graham 1 2 2.0 0 2 Mihalko 1 2 2.0 0 2 NOTRE DAME 52 864 16.6 8 57 OPPONENTS 1161342 11.5 8 42  TEAM STATISTICS NAVY OPP TOTAL OFFENSE 2449 2427 YARDS Total Plays 492 482 Yards per Play 5.0.0 5.0.0 Yards per Game 349.9 346.7 PENALTIES-YARDS 37-295 33-220 FUMBLES-LOST 22-9 11-6 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 125 132 By Rushing 87 85 By Passing 30 41 By Penalty 8 6 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 101-35 103-40 Percentage 34.7 38.8 POSSESSION TIME 216:56 203:04 Minutes per Game 30:59 29:01 SCORING G TO PA R-PA s FG TP Fundoukos 7 0 17-17 0-0 0 7-9 38 Grizzard 7 5 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 30 Mcintosh 7 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Jordan 7 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Bradley 7 3· 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Peterson 7 0 3-3 0-0 0 3-3 12 Archer 7 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Pangrazio 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Sims 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 NAVY 7 20 20-20 0-0 010-12170 OPP 7 21 18-19 1-2 0 6-10 164 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG Grizzard 78 395 5.1 5 43 Archer 69 358 5.2 1 47 Bradley 54 264 4.9 3 34 Mcintosh 51 193 3.8 4 51 Pangrazio 42 151 3.6 1 14 Sims 46 148 3.2 1 26  Peltier 16 87 5.4 0 14 Johnson 11 78 7.1 0 23 Purifoy 7 31 4.4 0 18 Burns 4 31 7.8 0 9 Vitelli 7 15 2.1 0 5 Flis 1 9 9.0 0 9 Venezia 1 3 3.0 0 3 Mason 6 -10 -1.7 0 5 NAVY 3931753 4.5 15 51 OPPONENTS 3481564 4.5 17 68 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS "1"0 Mcintosh 52 22 .423 0 319 2 Grizzard 45 19 .422 3 343 2 Archer 1 11.000 0 34 1 Purifoy 1 0 .000 1 0 0 NAVY 99 42 .424 4 696 5 OPP 134 60 .448 6 863 3 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Jordan 21 377 18.0 4 49 Archer 5 89 17.8 1 34 Voss 3 91 30.3 0 49 Grizzard 2 35 17.5 0 26 S.Smith 2 27 13.5 0 17 Neumann 2 25 12.5 0 13 Johnson 2 10 5.0 0 8 Bradley 2 6 3.0 0 3 Pangrazio 1 21 21.0 0 21 Dawson 1 13 13.0 0 13 Vitelli 1 2 2.0 0 2 NAVY 42 696 16.6 5 49 OPPONENTS 60 863 14.4 3 57  NOTRE DAME (7-0) d. MICHIGAN, 19-17 d. Michigan State, 20-3 d. PURDUE, 52-7 d. STANFORD, 42-14 d. Pittsburgh, 30-20 d. MIAMI, 31-30 d. AIR FORCE, 41-13 Oct. 29 -at Navy Nov. 5 -RICE Nov. 19 -PENN STATE Nov. 26 -at Southern Cal NAVY (3-4) d. JAMES MADISON, 27-14 d. DELAWARE, 30-3 I. TEMPLE, 12-7 I. The Citadel, 42-35 d. YALE, 41-7 I. Air Force, 34-24 I. Pittsburgh, 52-6 Oct. 29 -NOTRE DAME Nov. 5 -at Syracuse Nov. 12 -at South Carolina Dec. 3 -Army  

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE NAVY OFFENSE NAVY DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL RE 30 HT WT CL LE 46 David Lowe 6-2 215 Jr.
Frank Slams 6-4 237 Sr. POS NO PLAYER SE 25 Raghlb Iaman 5-10 175 Fr. 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226 So. LT 74 Greg Hlatky 6-5 248 So. 48 Jim Kirk 
6-Q 220 Jr. 80 Steve Alaniz 6-2 196 Sr. LT 69 George Williams 6-3 282 So. 50 Kevin Flynn 6-Q 251 Jr. LT 54 Greg Reppar 6-Q 247 Jr. 
QT 66 Andy Heck 6-7 277 Sr. 73 Mike Christ 6-4 247 Jr.
Sr. 74 Mirko Jurkovic 6-5 270 Fr. LG 62 Tim Hofacre 6-4 271 So. DE 97 Arnold Ale 6-4 200 Fr. 52 Anthony Kawa 6-3 249
68 George Marshall 6-2 243 So. MG 59 Chris Graham 6-Q 252 So. QG 245 So. 7 Andre Jones 6-4 215 So. c 67 Dan Bishop 5-10 225 Jr.
52 Tim Ryan 6-4 51 Andy Kirkland 6-Q 235 So. 64 Mike Brennan 6-5 246 Sr. RT 90 Jeff Aim 6-7 246 J(. 68 Bob Friedman 6-2 233 So. RT 76 Troy Holland 6-5 250 Sr. c 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 258 So. 93 Bob Dahl 6-5 248 So. RG 78 Mike Malar 6-1 270 Jr. 70 Dave Christel 6-3 245 So. 76 Gene McGuire 6-5 265 Fr. DE 38 Flash Gordon 6-3 214 Sr. 79 Ingar Grev 6-4 250 Sr. RE 
77 Scott Prinz 6-4 235 Jr. TG 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 279 Jr. 7 Andre Jones 6-4 215 So. RT 57 Mike Kircher 6-2 250 Jr. 61 Chris Janke 6-2 234 So. 
61 Tom Gorman 6-6 255 Sr. MLB 34 Wes Pritchett 6-6 251 Sr. 71 Stacey Overlin 6-4 245 So. ILB 45 
Beau Laskey 6-4 224 Fr. TT 71 Dean Brown 6-3 283 Jr. 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 224 So. TE 87 Kevin Voss 6-4 233 Sr. 37 Mark Pimpo 6-Q 220 Sr. 
72 Joe Allen 6-4 268 So. 98 Dave Berghult 6-3 208 So. ILB 43 Ray Worthington 6-Q 219 Sr. TE 86 Derek Brown 6-7 235 Fr. ELB 42 Mike Stonebreaker 6-1 226 Jr. SE 85 Shane Smith 6-2 190 Jr. 92 Bill Bowling 6-1 224 So. 43 Rod West 6-3 234 Jr. 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 232 Sr. 80 Jerry Dawson 5-8 167 So. HB 39 Scott Carson 6-Q 175 So. 
QB 9 Tony Rice 6-1 1911 Jr. FCB 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 181 So. QB 15 Gary Mcintosh 6-2 207 So. 17 Steve Tazza 6-Q 175 Jr. 
-
So. 33 David Jandric 6-2 192 Jr. 16 Alton Grizzard 6-Q 187 FB 22 Anthony Johnson 6-Q 225 Jr. SCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186 Jr. LHB 24 Luther Archer 5-8 177 Sr. 3 Dave Lerch 5-11 186 Jr. 39 Braxston Banks 6-3 211 Jr. 32 D'Juan Francisco 5-11 187 Sr. 28 Jason Pace 6-1 197 So. ss 13 Rodney Brown 5-11 200 Jr. TB 24 Mark Green 18 Daron Fullwood 5-10 203 Jr. 
17 Kent Gtaham 6-5 228 So. CB 4 Jim Chatfield 5-11 189 Sr. 
6-Q 184 Sr. ss 27 George Streeter 6-2 212 Sr. RHB 32 James Bradley 5-9 192 Jr. 
218 So. 26 Greg Davis 6-1 198 So. 23 Rodney Purifoy 5-8 173 Fr. FL 12 Ricky Watters 6-2 201 So. FS 15 Pat Terrell 6-Q 195 Jr. • FB 31 Bert Pangrazlo 5-9 219 Sr. 49 Bart LaRocca 5-10 t89 So. 194 Sr. 
40 Tony Brooks 6-2 FS 42 Bob Welssenfels 6-0 190 Jr. 
13 Pat Eilers 5-11 197 Sr. 31 Corny Southall 6-2 34 Deric Sims 5-11 221 So. p 97 Gerard Shanley 5-11 176 Jr. 5-5 135 Sr. p 16 Jim Sexton 6-Q 188 So. PK 99 Ted Fundoukos 5-11 199 Sr.
PK 2 Reggie Ho 6 Jefferson Triplett 6-1 189 Fr. 18 Billy Hackett 
6-1 184 So. 14 Sean Connor 6-7 214 Sr. 8 Todd Peterson 5-9 167 Fr. 
. PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict 

a the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each 

.. person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to Pete Sklko Jane Shu Marty Straaen Steve Megargee Therese Kelly Nancy Campbell Elvia Presley 




Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Random Student Guest Celebrity 
pick the winner of a given game. 

43-39-1 40-42-1 40-42-1 35-47-1 30-52-1 39-43-1 38-44-1
The person must pick the winner 

.524 .489 .489 .427 .366 .476 .463
and give the underdog points. 

(last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 6-8-Q) (last week: 7-7-Q) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 4-10-0) (last week: 3-11-0) (last week: 8-6-Q)
Home team is in CAPS. 

INDIANA over Iowa by 3.5 Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hawk eyes Hoosiers Purdue over WISCONSIN by 8 Badgers Badgers Boilermakers Boilermakers Boilermakers Boilermakers Boilermakers MICHIGAN ST. over Ohio State by 8 Spartans Spartans Spartans Buckeyes Buckeyes Spartans Spartans W.VIRGINIA over Penn State by 13.5 Mountaineers Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Mountaineers Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Miami over EAST CAROLINA by 31 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Auburn over FLORIDA by 7 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Gators Alabama over MISSISSIPPI ST. by 12 Bulldogs Crimson Tide Bulldogs Bulldogs Crimson Tide Crimson Tide "Hound Dogs" WASHINGTON over Stanford by 8 Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Southern Cal over OREGON ST. by 16 Trojans Beavers Beavers Beavers Trojans Trojans Trojans 
UCLA over Washington State by 21 Bruins Bruins Cougars Cougars Bruins Bruins Bruins 
LSU over Mississippi by 11 Rebels Tigers Tigers Rebels Tigers Tigers Tigers 
ARKANAS over Rice by 22 Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Owls Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks 
ARIZONA over California by 9.5 Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Bears Wildcats "Teddy Bears" 
Notre Dame over NAVY by 34 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

Friday, October 28, 1988 

ENTO! 
~~~)
y 


an educational workshop on campus Monday from 10: 30 
p.m. to 12:30 a.m. 
Tickets for Sotavento's Notre Dame performance may be obtained at the door or at LaFortune information desk for $4. The concert is an event in the University's Year of Cultural Diversity and is sponsored by the Student Union Board and the Graduate Student Union. For further information concern­ing the concert or the workshop contact Cultural Arts of the Student Union Board. 
NATE FITZGERALD accent writer 
T
he title of U2's new album, Rattle and Hum, may strike fear into those Domers who haven't been able to sleep recently because their radiators rattle all night long. 
Have no fear, Rattle and Hum is not as strange as its title suggests, yet it will be a definite challenge to U2's au­dience, considering its stylis­tic divergence from past al­bums. 
A large portion of Rattle and Hum results from U2's venture into the American roots of rock, blues, and gospel music that took place during The Joshua Tree tour and the filming of "U2 Rattle and Hum," the accompanying movie that opens November 4. 
Penetrating live covers of the Beatie's "Helter Skelter," and Bob Dylan's "All Along the Watchtower" initial U2's hat-tipping to the founders of rock. 
Later, there is "Angel of Harlem" a catchy tune writ­ten in honor of Billie Holiday, complete with saxophone and trumpet by the Memphis Horns. This tribute continues with "When Love Comes to Town," a bluesy tangent that Bono wrote for B.B. King which also features a perfor­mance by King. For John Lennon, there is the peculiarly rappish "God Part 
·-II," a rebuttal to Albert Goldman's negative biog­raphy of Lennon. This song's message is strong with lyrics like "I don't believe in excess success is to give ... I believe in love," but musically this tune is hard to swallow, even for the loyal fan. "Love Res­cue Me," co-written by Bob Dylan, is another of the less exciting pieces on the album with its slow, country sound. 
The six live songs on the al­bum come across powerfully, allowing Bono to voice the band's political message out­side lyrical confines. In the anti-apartheid "Silver and Gold,"Bono describes a man "who is ready to take up arms against his oppressor, a man who has lost faith in the peacemakers of the West while they argue and fail to support a man like Bishop Tutu ... " During "Bullet the Blue Sky," a song denouncing 
U.S. policy in El Salvador, Bono says, " ... I can't tell the difference between ABC News, 'Hillstreet Blues,' and a preacher ... stealing money 
from the sick and the old. 
Well the God I believe in isn't 
short of cash mister." 
The live version of "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For," which features a Harlem Choir, will be ini­tially disappointing to those expecting the same version they saw during the Joshua Tree tour. Nonetheless, this version has all of U2's emo­tion and energy and holds some definite appeal in its gospel rhythm. 
Some of the new studio songs that resemble the es­tablished U2 sound are "Desire," the first release from the album, "Hawkmoon 269," "Heartland," a wel­come return to the surreal sound of The Unforgettable Fire, and "All I Want Is You," a love song that builds with a string accompaniment to finish the album. 
As with The Joshua Tree, the lyrics on Rattle and Hum are somewhat redundant, but for fans who want more poison rain, angels, devils, and fire, there is plenty of it. 
One disappointing aspect of Rattle and Hum is the small number of live songs from The Joshua Tree tour. Still, U2 brought forth a new stock of impressive songs. Maybe the movie will include more of a taste of the live U2. 


etc. 

page 12 Friday, October 28, 1988 
The blessed laughter of Jesus 
esus dropped by the a day." He meant that if the J Vatican the other night to Church could change over-give the Pope his report card .night, it wouldn't be the as Vicar of the Church on Church; because the Church earth. John Paul got an A-plus is in God's hands, and God in Faith and Morals, but only isn't in a hurry. 
a B in Commandment "Sometimes, when I'm keeping. "I don't under-riding in the popemobile, stand," t~e Pontiff said. seeing how t?rn apart the "Where dtd I go wrong?" world is, seemg the hungry 
"Examine your own con-children in a Third World science," the Lord replied, country, I stop to give the "and let it be your accuser. people my blessing; but that Can you honestly say that you doesn't change anything. loved Jimmy Swaggart as you Later, I'll say Mass for them, 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

love yourself? I mean, did you turn the other cheek when he said you were a phoney? When Oral Roberts pushed the panic button, did you offer to lend him money? Remember about being a Good Samaritan." 
Jesus continued, "No one promised it would be a cinch to be the Pope." 
"Thy will be done, Lord,'' answered John Paul in a sin­cere voice. "But what about some of your other teachings? I often look at all the hear­tache I could change, if I were allowed to say 'yes' sometimes instead of 'no' all the time, I think things would be easier, even for You, suf­fering wherever Your children are unhappy. 
"You should tell them from Me that Rome wasn't built in but that doesn't change anything. I'll return to Rome to hold a synod, but synods don't change anything. Fi­nally I'm faced with a mo­ment of truth: as God's man for all seasons holding the keys of the kingdom, I don't help anybody. So I'd like to ask you face-to-face: is this any way to run the Church?" 

When Jesus saw tears in the face of this good old man, He loved him too much to want to hurt him. As a good-will gesture, He tore up the report card he had brought. "I got the silly idea of evaluating you from a business manage­ment class, where a student used to pray for me to come and help him. Why should I pressure you with grades in­stead of allowing you to take a pass-fail?" Jesus said this, of course, to show how human He is, in addition to being God. 
"Once," Jesus said, "when I was being all things to all men, I spent some time with the street people in London. I met an old Scotsman who had been in jail. I asked him what he had done. He answered Me evasively, thinking I was an out-of-work preacher: 'It was an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth,' meaning he had committed'!-cri~e of vio­lence. Readmg ~Is face, I could t~ll tha_t hi~ anger was passed, and m ~Is h~art, he w~~ at p~a~~ with htms~lf. 
He satd. ~te~ commg back from bemg mcar­cerated, do you know what I noticed, guv'nor? I noticed that people have forgotten how to laugh.' Mter telling Me two or three times how much the world needs laughter, he asked: 'Do you know what Our Lord's last words from the Cross were?' I said I knew what the words were, but I wanted to hear his version. "Then he told Me: 'As He was seeing the view from the Cross, Our Lord's last words were: What a way to spend Easter!"' 
The Pope, hearing this, wasn't sure if he should laugh or cry. 
Jesus continued, in a deliberate understatement: "Calvary, of course, was no laughing matter, but the nightmare of Calvary could never have happened if the Jews and Romans hadn't for­gotten how to laugh. If you're able to laugh at yourself in a wholesome way, you aren't apt to get proud and spiteful toward other people, and feel that you have a right to put
them on trial, and kill them. 
"The irony of the situation was that the jeerin~ c~owd came to Calvary thmkmg the joke was on the Jew they crucified. But He was the only one there so in touch with His grace-filledhumanit~ tha! He could have laughed if He d _wanted to, though He ":as m no mood to get off one-h~ers .. The old_ Sc_?tsm~n, with hts wee bit of a JOke, 'Wh~t a way to spend Easter, d~hvered the . shortest, fmest Good Frtday homily I've ever heard." 
John Paul II, searching for words, finally said: "One of the questions Christians ask is: 'Did He ever laugh?' The Gospels don't tell us if You laughed. Did you go to the mountains to laugh, as You went there to pray, afraid, as Chesterton suggested, that Your mirth would be misun­derstood?" 
Jesus, laughing, answered: "The world was made out of laughter and joy, out of the happiness in the heart of My Father. Rabbis studying the Torah could point out the jokes, puns and word-play that Yahweh left like a signa­ture on His inspired books for His scholars to discover. Gloom entered the world when sin came. The Puritans elevated gloom into a religi­ous art form, and Catholics elevated suffering which ac­
companies gloom into a holy lifestyle." 
T k' th h d th t 
10
a ~ e an . a was ~~a;y with, th~ wetJht of th~ 
Is erman ~ ~~g, esus sat ~-the P~pe. r ut ~~~'thoor 
tca~, s rut~ mg w; e un­happt~ess t 1\age. ays u~on rou--p ea~e ~e a J1g~ ~a e t t~rth~u~h:: si ~nth~~ s~ ~ex 'The Buck Sto~s Here.' ~he new sign should read 'What A Way To Spend Easter!' Re­member, it's not a Polish joke, but a Scots joke, reminding you that God made Scots because he loves to laugh , 
· 
Now, at the Vatican, John Paul II makes the cardinals tell him a joke a day. They say he prefers humor to prayer, scandalous though it sounds. John Paul answers: "Humor is prayer, if it reminds you that Easter is not necessarily a bed of roses." 
~ingAdvice .··~ cansa~
__e ..
alife , ·_ 
/-: 
-~-­

Quest for the Crown 
October 31-November 4 

'Jvlorufay 
'rVin, Lose, or 'Draw rrournament (first rounti) :Masquerade Party 
'Iuestfay 'rVin, Lose, or 'Draw (se.coni ani tfr.irti rountfs) Scavenger 9-{unt :Movie: '!Tie Princess 'Bride 
Wetfnestfay :Mu{ievaf OostacCe Course 


'rVin, Lose, or 'Draw (fi.na£ rouni} 'Variety Sfww :Movie: Sfeeping 'Beauty 
rrfiurstfay '!Tie 9-ferafdry rrournament :Merfi.n 'Vtsits '!Tieoaore 's :Movie: Jfo{y (jrai£ 
s""""'red by •

J"ritfay 
STUDENT UNION BOARD

'Banner Competition Pep '/{{l[[y at Stepan Center rrug-of-'War 
J.P. and tfu Cats fwst a :Medieval'Baf£ 
1fayri.tfes 
Friday, October 28, 1988 The Observer page 13 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287~2 

WORDPROCESSING-TYPING 272-8827 
Man "Schmeal'' Gallagher lor VP 
..................... 

TEXTBOOKs-Bought & Sold-Bookl lor ALL claa... atilt avallablel UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandona'l Bookl, 808 Ho-rd St., juat oH of NO Ave. 233-2342. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-70011. 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237-18411 
Typing. Call Pat at 271.-118. Located 2 mi. north of Notna Dame. 
............................................................... 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to LIZ B., "'' 7th fl buddy Have s GREAT one! 
\ LOST/FOUND 
Loat:patr of red gi8M8a In burg. case w' blue dot panern on Mon 101 between cushing 2nd II. and Fa~ey hall. H you piCked them up, pleese call Molly x3580 
LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY CROSS SYR. IF YOU STOLE IT ... JUST GIVE ME THE FILM, PLEASE JEFF X3580 
FOUND: WATCH AT NO BUS STOP. CALL 2485. 
. ······· ...................................... 
FOUND: WATCH AT NO BUS STOP. 
CALL 2485. 
LOST RED, BLUE AND GREY SKI COAT FROM SENIOR BAR COAT ROOM $20 REWARD WITH NO QUESTIONS ASKED PLEASE CALL STEVE X-4358 
LOST:necklace wllh blue onyx, heart shaped pendant.REWARD. See Claudine In South D1n1ng Hall. 
Found: Kodak camera on 1he l~eld after the Pllt gama. Call Dave at *4020. 
HELP!! I LOST MY KEYS BEFORE BREAK AND MY ROOMMATE WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T FIND THEM SOON IF YOU HAVE FOUND A SET OF KEYS WITH 139 ON THE DORM KEYS. PLEASE CALL ME AT # 4205--­THANKS 
FOUND: Black puppy after Miami game Call Barry at 2311-5755 daya 
.................................................. Loall Keya on a Notre Dame key ring Loat In Lewis Hall October 14. II found call Julie at 4143 
FOUNDIII One jean jackell It was left In our room on October 14. II you are mis· sing a jacket call Julie or Lenore at * 2198 to 1dentHy or stop by 208 Lewis. 
Lost: BIG UMBRELLA..Pittaburgh NeWip(lnt. Reward. Call Angela 283 
3440 
LOST: HELP!! My dad waa here lor the Air Force gama and lost hia N.D. Letter Sweater at Sr. Bar II you picked one up by accident please call Colleen at 272·5891 Thil aweatar Ia reaUy important to him and he'd really appreciate anyone who would return n. Thanks 
LOST GOLD ST. CHRISTOPHER MEDAL. HAS GREAT SENTAMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3223, DAVE. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WCROSS AT THE ROCK IN THE GYM ON 1005. IF FOUND CALL JEFF AT 1504. PER· SONAL VALUE·REWARDI 
....................................... 

LOST: CALCULATOR Would the guy who I loaned my calculator to on Sunday (1G23) In the Ub<ary (2nd Moor) please call ma. x3885. 
FOR RENT 
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N Bnaek111t 
Juat 20 mtna. from NO. ldelol for al NO 
IICtlvltlel. ReMrVtl now. 6111-471-5711. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST wbath. Mini. to campua. Avail. for Ric. & Penn St. 277­76118. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 218­291-7153. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. 
Summer, 

YJ.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auatnalla,Aala. All flelda. $1100-2000 mo. Sigh._ lng.FrM Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST 
FOR VITO'S BARBER SKOP. CALL 
233-4767. 

1 need a ride to Cleveland lor T·Givlng. 

Leave 11123, return 11127. Will share ex­
penses, driving call Chris at 3048. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN 
CANCU Become a College Tours repre· 
sentative on your campus and get a free 
trip. Nothing to buy· we provide every· 
thing you need. it's easy! Call1·800·727· 
0005 

FOR SALE 
APPLE llc COMPUTER PACKAGE In· cludh1g keyboard, green-screen monitor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap· plewor1<s word processor, blank data dis· ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283· 3481. 
1978 AMC Concord 2-d, P.S., Air, Auto, Mlch tires new battery and brakes, excellent lor student. Good car. $1695 Call Ch~s 264-4288 
RICE WEEKEND Rooms available next to campus JAMISON INN (219) 277 ·9682 
TICKETS 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL KOME GAMES.2n.QOII 
Oh PIMM give me Penn State tlcketal Okay, I'll pay lots of money for them, but I need 2 GA's lor Penn St. Please call Kathleen at 283·4220. 
I NEED RICE TIXIII Let's be se~ous--you don't want to see ua play Alee, but my family does. I need 8 tickets lor the game. II you can help, please call me at 283-1069 ask lor The Beeler. 
PLEASE HELPI·4 RICE GA'S NEEDED 
AND ONEGA OR STUDENT FOR PENN STATE CALL SUSAN-264-4373. 
Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos· slble. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC­4395. 
2 TIX INCLUDED EACH HOME GAME WITH WEEKEND RENTAL OF 1 BEDROOM APT. 3 BLKS. FROM N.D. $350 CALL 219 272·2720 
I need 2 studGA tixs lor Penn St. call 4431. 
I need 4 Alee Stud Tlx; John x4364 
WANTED: SIX RICE GA'a, count 'em, 6 will pay CASh... call Frank or Rob-3137 
I NEED RICE TICKETS BADLVIII Okay, everybody needs tickets here and there. but my parents are coming ao I need 2 GA'a. Pleese call Kerstin at 283· 4220. 
You betcha I need tlcketall 
Pleese call the Beeler to sell him 8 GA's lor the Rice gama. And when you call, tell Steve you think he's cute. Call 1069 to sell tickets. 
I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY 
PRICE X4418, # 647 P.E. 
I have 2 Rice GA's, willing to trade them plua $$$ lor 2 Penn ST GA's. Call Stacy at x3771 
Anyone needs NAVY GA's7 I've got 
three. Call Coop at 1791. 
I need 1 GA lor the Rice Game. K you 
can help me out, call x 1259 and ask lor 
Evelyn. 

THEIR LAST CHANCE TO SEE NO 
GAME Senior's parents will trede Alee 
GA'a or $$ lor Penn St. GA's Call Matt 
ll1172 

NE.EioEio:24'Fiic;;;'a:.\··~:·c:~iis~~-·~:· 
5063. 

I NEED 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX 
FOR PENN ST. CALL JULIE AT 264­
5440 

HELP! I NEED 2-4 GA'S FOR RICE 
CALL JULIE AT 264·5342 THANKS HELP!! I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. $$$ *2697 
WANTED: 4 Tickets tor Penn State call Erin x4281 
NEED PENN GA'S & 1 RICE STUD X­3100 
............................................................... 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S PLEASE!!! WILL PAY$$ 239·7323 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S t Preferably together. Call Sharon at 288-2314. 
3 RICE ST. TIX 4 SALE (x3201 lv. btl & mess.) 
Need Penn St. G.A.s..uncle's company will pay top dollar lor tix. Call Mike 3540. 
I NEED 1 OR 2 PENN ST TIX call Deborah 3706 
I need 2 Penn St. Ga's and 1 Stud. Call Dan X1428 
I NEED PENN STATE TIXII PLEASE CALL X2964 IF YOU HAVE ANY TO SELL 
HELP!! Need 2 Rice Tlx Parents coming to D lor 1st time! Please! Bob x1794 ENDAD 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS! NOONE WILL PAY MOREl CALL 283-4772 
Need VAN HALEN TIX7 Well, I've got 2 for you. Just call4107 wnh best offer. 
4 PENN GA'S NEEDEDII WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT WITHIN REASON. CALL TIM 1616 OR BRUCE 313·628-4300 8-Sp.m. 
Muffin is coming to NO finally but she needs a ticket lor PENN STATE (enher GA or student) Please cell Beth x1264. 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S; MONEY IS NO OBJECT; CALL MARK 2171 
need 2 or 4 PENN STATE GA 288-4160 
I need PENN ST. stud lix-call 3808 
Do you need NAVY tickets? Call Mary x1759 
2 RICE G.A.'s needed! Call Lou 289­<>4315. 
CALL ME AT 2853 IF YOU HAVE PENN STATE STUDENT TIX FOR SALE 
NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S JOE X1728 
WANTED· Two Rice GAs. Together. Call Eugene at 1979 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 8 pen state tix Please call 44951 
HELP MEl I NEED 1 PENN TICKET! PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 
NEED RICE, P·ST GA TIX. ALSO NEED 
A.F. PROGRAM. CHRIS x1073 
BIG BUCKS AND NO WHAMMIES I I NEED 1 RICE ST. TICKET SO GIVE ME A CALL AND LEAVE A MSSG KEVIN# 27Hl359 
PENN STATE 42-4 ovar NO Or 10 uya my brother. N-4 GA'a to ahow ha'a wrong. Call Sh-n at 2380 to halp.SS 
PARENTS COMING. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA' PLUS TWO GA'S FOR FRIENDS. DO NOT RUIN OUR REUNION. x2377 JEFF. 
WANTED: 2 RICE GA'S CALL MIKE X2261 
I need PENN ST. tlx!Marle, 1458 
NEED 2 (OR 4) RICE GA'S CALL WENDY X1511 $$$ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-·PLEASE CALL SHEILA--271·9365 
HEY/ I NEED THREE TICKETS TO PENN STATE CALL CHRIS AT 1644 
PERSONALS 
QAN LAPSLEY Put that cigare1fe down before you corrode your lungs out. 
STUDENTS 
of Dan Lapaley 

Steal all of his cigarettes. He's trying to qun. 
................................................................ 
To the crew who -nt to MSU and 
Pitt: 
D.C. will never be the same! 
BADIN SVR 
BADIN SVR 
BADIN SYR 

Saturday night "Prohibition"·get 
psyched gl~sll 

rh;;;;k;;g~i~g··~·i;:p,~;;;;..i,;;i;;i·;-;;;·;,~·:· ... 
Chicago to New Orleans. Best 
OMer...ext 4606. 
WEEKEND WHEELS 
!1'1 finally hare-Aida It tonight 
Kave a good time-leave your keya 
behind Ill 
NO HOCKEY VS. R.I.T. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT, 7:30. 

WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL 233-4767. 
No shaving Basins In Taipei No Circus Lunch In Taiwan No Bill Webb Day In the R.O.C. Help! Reply to: Jim Carroll 
T.l.Y.A.C. Room 902 30 Shin Hai Road, Sec. 3 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 50 FT. VACKTS BIMINI BAHAMAS GROUPS OF 8 $435 PP 7 DAYS 1-800-999-7245 ANYTIME ARRANGE SMALL GROUP & CRUISE FREE 
BASS PLAYER FOR ROCK N ROLL BAND NEEDED call Jim 288-6207 Scott 283-3249 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE ANTI·CHRIST HIMSELF/ YOU KNOW, "CHRIS" IS ONLY ONE LEITER SHORT OF BEING "CHRIST." 
FROM THE MOVIE CRITIC AND HIS ROOMIE. 

CLUB 23 W.tch tha game with ua thla Sat. Go NO Beat Navy. CLUB 23 
CHICAGO BUS TRIP-'Wincty CHy Shuttle" sponsored by the Student Actlv· rties OMice, will run this Saturday, Oct. 
29. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 9:45am and return altO pm. Tlckets are available lor $10 at the lnlormatio Desk 1st Floor LaFortune. Next shuttle will run Saturday, Nov. 12. 
KELP! Alumn 1p111t all day tookln for Miami tlck.t and did not have time to buy 1 T -ahlrt. Really WANTS NEEDS 
T-lhlrt wtth large football tlck.t on front and CBS aport• on back. If you have one, pleaM call Margaret et 233­6161. 
HELPI Alumn apent all dey lookln for Miami tlck.t and did not have time to buy a T-ahlrt. R11lly WANTS NEEDS T-lhlrt wHh large football tlck.t on front end CBS aport• on back. If you heva one, plea11 call Margaret at 233­8161. 
THE EXCITEMENT IS BACK 
NO HOCKEY 
FRf.SAT 1008,29 7:10PM J'CC 
CHECK IT OUTI 
ATTENTION! Come join the NHL's largest booster club N.J. DEVILS FAN CLUB 

T~psl Prizes! Meet Devils players! Con· tact Jeff at 1895 
CONGRATULATIONS TO... SPANKV AND LUKE KAPPV ENGAGEMENT! BEST OF LUCK! 
SENIORS!! SENIORS!! BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR SATURDAY'S WEDDING· LESS REC-EEPTIONII AM. LEGION.. $71jleraon 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
Gnab a d.ta or coma IIIII 
totha 
JUNIOR BARN DANCE 
Sat. Oct. 29 
Sat. Oct. 29 
Yes, tHis Saturday! 
TICkets ($7) on Sale all week 

from 7 ·9 in all SMC dorms at LaFortune 
Tickets sold 7·9 Fri. night. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 

My foreign Admirer Definnlon rest~ctsl 
The mind confuses! The heart knows 
best! 
Joyster 

KAPPV 19TH BIRTHDAY TO A SENSA­
TIONAL SOPHOMORE-BRIDGET 
WALSK. 

LOVE, MOM, DAD & JIMMY 
Attention SMC !rahmen 
Get your paint brushes ready 
November 12 

KATHY SHANNON & AM. DEGA JOYEUSES ANNIVERSAIRES, MES AMIESI PASSEZ LES BONNES JOUR· NEES. NE M'OUBLIEZ PAS! CHRISSY 
REGGAE NIGHT IS BACK II FRIDAY CLUB 23 
OOKHH, TKAT REGGAE MUSIC II Friday at the CLUB 23 ... 
GET WICKEDIII GET WILDIII because ITS COMINGIIIIIIIIIIII LEWIS MASQUERADE BALLIIIIIIII 
"Don't be a Stan" KraMer, Judge, and Celeste 
hi ag. 
GIVE TO UNITEDWAYIII UNITED WAY NIGHT AT ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB THIS FRIDAY! 
The gi~ wrth the dog: I got your dog's name from you, and I got your name not from the Registrar's OMice, but from the "Mirror, Mirror on the wall.. ." ·-A friend of Monk 
DAVID PALUMBO FINALLY GOT A PERSONAL! CJN 
PATTY (pat·tee): n. a line, sexy, sweet, sweet, Christian 
woman HINT,HINT PaMy likes pigs that eat rutabaga. 
RUTABEGA Watch lor Ill You too could win a ZILLION dollars. I'm not kidding! 
FAC FAC FAC FAC FAC Anention all new and old members Meeting tonile 5PM Attempt aome kind of a costume and be prepared lor some strong 
WITCH'S BREW HALLOWEEN FAC IS HERE 
KEY, CAL IS BACK DOUBLE THE PLEASURE, 
DOUBLE THE FUN! 
"JUST GIVE ME A 'WHYLE' AND I'M HAPPY/" 
TOP 10 REASONS TO CALL ELIZABETH MARSHALL ON HER 20th BIRTHDAY -10. Dlatlkea bam animals 9. Vodka and men named War· ren agree wnh her 8. A soon to be Hoosier 
7. Doesn't want to be a Hoosier 6.Uves with Superman and Groovette 5. Intimate relationship wnh mlsletoe 4. Hates bugs 
3. Idolizes Saggo 2. II your name is Dave 
1. A gorgeous, voluptous redheed 
Happy 20th Birthday Elizabeth Marshall Lov Murph. Lynard, Groovette, Piggy Sue, Cutie, TBI 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE! YOUR NOVENA NEVER EVER FAILS! GAR 
GET PSYCKEDI GET PSYCHED! BADIN HALL SVR TKIS SATURDAY! PROHIBITION LIVESI 
ITS WILDIII ITS WICKEDIIII 
ITS COMING Ill LEWIS MASQUERADE BALL.. .... To all you lucky characters who received an invitation·--· GET PSYCHED!!! GET A COSTUME Ill AND COME PARTY WITH THE LEWIS GIRLS!!! 
ATTN: NIKIE NORRIS!! 
NIKIE NORRIS!! Have you gotten your TB shots yet? Well trust me nonly hurts :or a minute, ao g~n and bear it ole. And I hate myaeK lor loving "It" even after 1t" falls on the wet sidewal and makes and asa of hlmseH. I hav no control then. And though I neve want to do It again we must protact our· selves at all ooata. 
Love, Crazy Mary M. 
HAl HAl STEVE! Buildings can't talk but econ GODS can. Stop trying to scam nice youngs ladies like that. 
SWEENEY SISTERS UNITE!! When will justice be done In this world and give us the social statur of reigning b-ball queen Soppy who wears no toppy7 Soon we will have more excnlng things to do than sn around picking the week's MYSTERY PAL and then we will have no other choice than to plead lnsannary. 
Want to sell your NO-USC game bip package? Call Molly X1321. 
JIM BLUM HAPPY BIRTHDAY COOL DUDE I 
·The Fellas 

rooiaH-T".4r"Ai:ut:~N·i·sEii'iiO'ii"ci:us 
IS UNITED WAY NIGHTI SUPPORT THE UNITE WAY CAUSE! 
uNrrEo...w'i.v···i'iio'iiT...i.r...i.i:liiiNi 
SENIOR CLUB THIS FRIDAY! COME SUPPORT OUR CAUSE 
................................................................ 
KAPPV UNBIRTHDAV STEPHANIE THOMAS THE RAVE at Theodore's Saturday Night! They were here lor Freshman Orientation-Now back by popular demand!! Come check out this awesom dance band baglnnlnng at 9:00P.M. You won't be disappointed!!! 
CATHERINE 
We can't imagine you being the big 
EIGHTEEN! Does this mean no more stranga, sudden disappearances, or any bench by Lalor· tune scn>aming matches, no more bleached lemonade In Keenan? Tomor· row we'll see. Happy birthday! Love Hoolie, Haura, and Plta·Breed . 
ELIZABETH CRUMMY!!! HAVE A HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAVIII P.S. RE· MEMBER, YOU CAN RUN, BUT YOU CAN'T HIDE.-THE TOWELLESS ONE 
OUEST FOR THE CROWN Oct. 31·Nov.2 
A week·long adventure to capture the glory lor your dorm I OCT.31·NOV.2 
Ouest lor the Crown-Oct.31 ,Monday WIN,LOSE OR DRAW 4-4:30 COS­TUME PARTY 9-12 Theodore's 
HOLA FELIZ CUMPLEANOS CARLA THE BIG 18 LOVE, THE NINERS 
.~ ............................................................. 
W9d, Nov.2 Quest lor the Crown VAAl· ETY SHOW 7pm·9pm Theodore's Start getting an original act together lor points lor your dorm (talk to your hall president lor details) 
Megster, Hope your Birthday Ia as wild as you can be. Looking forward to Sun· day. Loulgl (T.L) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHYI LOVE,YOUR COU SINS PAT AND VANESSA! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GRANDPA BREHLI LOVE, PAT, KATHY & VANESSA! P.S. WE KNEW YOU READ THESE! 
Happy 20th Birthday MEG DOYLE!! Just one more year and you'll be drtnklng those party buckets at the Snuggary· LEGALL VII Love, Heidi & Julie 
Tomorrow Is 
MICHELE "BERTHA" BRYLANSKI'S 
19th B-day.caJI 264-41 06 and wish her 
a happy day! Love, Myrtle, HarrleM, 
Penelope, 
Zelda, Wilma, Blanche, & Clora 
................................................................ 
Ouigly Good Luck tonight against Johns Hop­kins. Hope you score. Love Ann and Julie ................................................................ Here me now and later.. . My two brothers Hans and Franz are coming in lor the Penn State gama and I need 2 tickets. Call 3171 or I will heve to crush your puny body. 
Avoid the rush 
Hate Jonhs Hopkins 
Tonight 6:30 at Krause Stedlum 
"Win 2 Penn St GAs" 
Come see the lastest game on 2 leet at Its fastest. NO lacrosse vs Johns Hopkins Tonight 6:30 at Krause 
................................................................ 
Show "The Notre Dame of College Lacross" what the true spirit of tradnion is all about! NO vs Johns Hopkins 6:30 T onlght at Krause 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-While Tally $9 pound. $3 postage. Sand chack to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A. CA90037. 213-741­
1338. 
NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH FOR THANKSGIVING 7 CALL BETH 4071
.. 
MY KEART PUMPS IN ANTICIPATION 
OF THE BLOOD THAT WILL FLOW 
TONIGHT ... 
Tha plen Ia perr.cted, 
My -pon handy, 
While the uneuapec:tlng victim 
Dona tha colllume 
Which wtll become har ahroud... 
JOIN THE PARTYI 
II O'CLOCK, THEOOORES 

,......-----------~--~----~--~~--­

from France to further extend an already talented unit. 
Spencer, meanwhile, will en­ter the game with the defensive-middie unit, which is inserted in place of the regular middie line in defensive situa­tions. Joining Spencer in the line will be sophomore defen­
Watch ND Spook R.I. T. 
seman Eamon McAnaney and 
Saturday, October 29 
sophomore middie Pete Gillin. Senior Warren Sanger and 
7:30pm

sophomore Dave Barnard will 
Dame lacrosse team to an upset over national power Johns Hopkins 
provide defensive experience 
JACC Arena 

tonight. Johns Hopkins has won 42 national championships In col­
off the bench for the Irish. 
legiate lacrosse. 
"We have some good depth on defense and are much far­ther along defensively than of­
Lacrosse: Information 
fensively right now," Corrigan said. "If you want to be a good team in any sport, you have to 
for novice spectators 
play good defense and I want 
to see how well we handle By PETE LaFLEUR defensemen, and a goalie. them. A good defensive effort Sports Writer could build confidence for the
Several more players shuttle into the game much like in 
whole year." 
Lacrosse is a sport intro­hockey and a special line called Junior Jeff Glazier will start duced by American Indians the defensive middies are key in the goal for the Irish. that incorporates the physical to stopping opposing attacks. Glazier, who started his fresh­
Halloween Goalie Masks
contact and speed of hockey man year and in two games last with the running of soccer and Just as in hockey, the area spring, is replacing Matt 
Given Away to First 500 
the ball movement of basket­behind the net is in play and McQuillan, who graduated 
Fans Admitted to Game!
ball. Commonly referred to as there is a crease surrounding second on the all-time Irish list the fastest game on two feet, the goal that opponents can't with 454 career saves. 
Sponsored by (©Jifl'@d·i~J)Q31\@rWii
lacrosse is a game that can of­enter before shooting. "Fast Glazier can expect to be ten see over 20 goals scored per breaks" can often see defen­contest. semen and even goalies break 
The 10 players on the field through for goals and man­are divided into three attack­down penalties are often key men, three midfielders, three turning points. 
SOTAVENTO 
R LATIN RMERICRN FOLK BRND
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE 

~ll!J[N][Q)~W 
©©uCJ~© 
~~@@ ~offial. 

Mu~~um Ann~nb~~g 
Aud~to~~um 
$4.00 at La Fortune Info. desk 
Wo~k~hop to be he~d on Mon, Oct. 31 
10:30 A.M. -~2:30 P.M.
6:30p.m. 
Sign up at S.U.B. office anytime
MOOSE KRAUSE STADIUM $2 I adult $1 I student 
r.-wldt ILIIE/101.11 c... 
Sponsored by: Johns Hopkins 
,......,.._._,_,.,s ••,,_.. 
....,._..... -· 42 ••,....u... 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
/

...,......,.. 
We will be giving away two Irish Lacrosse Sticks and two General Admission tickets to the Penn Sate Football Game during the first half to people in attendance. 
~attls 
P"tZZa·· 
v 

----~---­
Friday, October 28, 1988
The Observer 

• Hopkins 
continued from page 20 
midfield, although there are some good players and I cer­tainly think they will play hard," said Corrigan. "The game surely will be a good learning experience for them." 
With six players returning who played in six or more games last year, the Irish defense likely will anchor the team throughout the year. The defense is led by senior tri­captains O'Connor and Spen­cer, who both started last spring. 
O'Connor will start the Hop­kins game alongside senior Brendan Cahill and junior Mike Stephens, who has returned tested by the Hopkins players, who are capable at scoring from anywhere on the field. Nonetheless, Corrigan thinks Glazier is capable of having a good outing. 
"Jeff is very quick and has great reactions, but he has to work on his positioning and on taking control," said Corrigan. "He has great seniors playing in front of him (on defense), but the goalie is really like a quarterback and, no matter what year he is, he has to take control." 
John Hopkins will bring a team comprised of high school All-Americans and numerous NCAA All-Americans. Senior Dave Petramala, an imposing 6'3" 190 pound two-time All­American defenseman, is "probably the best defenseman in the country,'' according to Corrigan. 
Other Bluejay players to watch include junior All­American goalie Quint Kes­sinich, sophomore attackman Matt Paneta, and the Kelly midfielders--senior captain Brendan and junior Greg. Greg Kelly, who is not related to Brendan, scored five goals in John Hopkins' recent 14-5 win in a scrimmage against the University of Maryland­Baltimore County. 
Hopkins coach Don Zimmer­man has won three national titles ('84, '86, and '87) while compiling a 57-8 record in his five years as Bluejays coach. 
A former player for Hopkins, Zimmerman also has coached at North Carolina and was an assistant last year for the United States World Games team. 





--------~~~------~--­
~ -· ~ "". .... 1r . .,.~i:.tll ....: . 
The Observer I John Studebaker 
With junior Mike O'Connor (center) out for the season with a leg Injury, the Notre Dame men's cross country team might have a harder time staying In front. The Irish are In Chicago this today for the Midwest Collegiate Conference championships. 
WithYon InThe Game~ We~ll BringThis Cmwd To Its Feet. 
Last year, Notre Dame's Drive to Cure Paral_y~is was the second 
most successful tournament in the country, raising over $6,300 for 
the Buonaconti Fund. Our #1 fundraising team, Big Bill's Team, 
was only dollars short of a free trip to the Sugar Bowl. 
This year we want to blow this project out of the_ water an? be the number one school in the nation. Help Non-Varsity Athletics set a 
precedent that hundreds of other schools will look up to. 
USF&G SugarBowl Flag Football DriveTo Cure Parnlysis. 

NOVEMBER 11, 12 & 13 LOFTUS ALL-SPORTS CENTER 
DEADLINE FOR TEAM ENTRIES NOVEMBER 7 
SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 


The Observer page 15 
Irish look to get back on track 
Loyola, injuries to test cross country team at MCC meet 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
It's time for the men's cross country team to reestablish its position as a national power when it competes in the Mid­western Collegiate Conference Championships today in Chicago. 
In the words of junior runner 
Tom  O'Rourke,  it's  time  to  
"put up or shut up."  
The  Irish,  who  finished  

seventh in the country last year at the NCAA Championships, have encountered many diffi­culties of late in their drive to repeat or even top last year's performance. 
In the last two weeks, the Irish have suffered a defeat at Southern California and have lost their number-three runner, junior Mike O'Connor, to a leg injury. 
The MCC Championships are looming big in the minds of the runners, due to their recent dis­appointments. 
"The MCC's are especially important now," said fifth­year senior captain Dan Gar­rett. "After we ran so badly at USC, we have to get our confi­dence up or we won't do anyth­ing at districts." 
The MCC Championships will precede the NCAA District IV meet by two weeks, with the latter being the qualifying race for the NCAA Championships. 
The team hopes to improve its running in anticipation of the District IV meet, which is the most competitive district in the country and which lead co­ach Joe Piane has called a "hel­lacious district.'' 
The MCC's, which will be hosted by Loyola Oil.), will take place in Montrose Park in Chicago. Loyola and Notre Dame are expected to be the main competitors, but other strong teams such as Butler, Detroit and Marquette also will be attending. 
Earlier this year, Notre Dame won the National Catho­lic meet held on its home course, with Loyola finishing second. Now, a new meet will take place on Loyola's home course, and the Irish will be without O'Connor. 
Suddenly, a new rivalry with Loyola has emerged. 
"(The rivalry) has become really big in the last two to three years," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "Loyola's front three runners will be very good. Based upon how banged up we are and how they (Loyola) ran at the National Catholic, they should be the team to beat." 
OnE!-of the problems with the team la~ly is that the Irish have not run aggressively. It let USC take the initiative in Southern California and never really got back into the race. 
"Being aggressive, getting out of the deadwood and getting in front from the gun are the keys to running well at this meet," said Piane. "The run­ners must also run more as a team, and in large part how we do will depend on our fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh run­ners." 
The team looks ready for the challenge. Its workouts this week have been strong, and runners such as Ryan Cahill and Tom O'Rourke have trained especially well, accor­ding to Garrett. 
"We're working out with a little more aggressiveness," said Garrett. "We're just pumped up for the race. We really want to do well and prove that we can run better than we have been." 

More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 


...------~----~------~·~­
Friday, October 28, 1988
The Observer 

ND looks to end slide in Miami 
1 
I I 
~ 

The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

Danny Gordon (6) and the Notre Dame soccer team travel to Miami this weekend for the Florida International Gatorade Classic. The Irish will face both Penn State and Boston University during this 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team is facing possibly the most im­portant weekend of its season. 
Notre Dame will particpate in the Florida International Gatorade Classic at Miami aiming to end a slide of three losses in four games and to turn the heads of the NCAA Tourn­ament selection committee. 
The Irish, 11-3-2, left on Thursday for Miami, where they will take on Penn State and Boston University. 
Both teams sport excellent records entering the competi­tion. Boston University has been ranked as high as 16th in the nation and is looking for its third tournament berth in four years. 
It's that type of competition which Irish coach Dennis Grace feels could help his team in the long run. 
"Those (tough, non-region) games can only help us," said Grace. 
Unfortunately, the Irish did not take advantage of two similar opportunities last week with losses to College of Charleston and Rutgers. Now, Notre Dame's back is against the wall. One win is a must, with two wins almost a neces­sity. 
Stategically, Grace could have a surprise for his weekend opponents. In last week's matches, a man-to-man attack proved successful in both second halves, and Grace may experiment with a full 90 minutes of pressure. 
"We pulled our sweeper," noted Grace of the strategy move. "We decided to put our athleticism against theirs, and we really took it to them." 
Notre Dame will be led by a trio of senior scoring machines in Bruce "Tiger" McCourt, Joe Sternberg and Randy Morris. The three have steadily moved up the all-time Irish scoring charts, and hold the four, five and six spots among the regional scoring leaders. 
Notre Dame's season-long goal has been an NCAA berth. The key to strengthening those chances could be found in Miami. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111!!!
i*Tim;ake is finally -1t -1t i 
= 1t ~ = 
I * 21!!!*1 
= ¥ =
I Y,\t\"\\'~ !)f • 
I ~ "'""~ }f-• * I ~ 
Love,

i ._ Mom, Dad, Pat and~ 
i Susan ~ 
-111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111= 
vs. Nebraska 
Friday. October 28th 
7:30PM at the JACC 
ADWORKS 

Friday, October 28, 1988 The Observer page 17 
The Tigers, although they percentage and also has ac­sound more threatening than cumulated a team-high 119 
mere Cornhuskers, have notal­total blocks.
Huskers Women's C.C. is set 
continued from page 20 
nents and have had easy vic­tories over Notre Dame oppo­nents such as Purdue and Pacific earlier in the season. 
"There won't be any surprises with Nebraska," said Irish head coach Art Lambert, who earned his 100th Notre Dame victory against Ohio State last Tuesday. "They are a very solid team, a big team, and they have an excellent set­ter. I think they'll come here ready to play." 
The Irish will face another challenging opponent Saturday when they play Louisiana State, which stands at 14-8, in the first meeting between the two teams. 
ways lived up to the verocity that characterizes their mas­cots. 
LSU has been plagued by in­consistencies this year--a prob­lem which has overshadowed much of the team's success-­but the Tigers still have been strong contenders nationally. 
"LSU has been ranked in and out of the top 20 over the season," said Lambert. "They are second or third in the South­ern region and can't be taken lightly." 
The Irish will go after ~e­braska and LSU with their big gun, senior middle blocker Mary Kay Waller. 
Waller leads the team in kills with 258 for a .264 hitting 

Band /5e&tNS at q:ooov Io: oo ~P1 
Zanette Bennett will help Wal­ler provide their usual one-two punch for the Irish offense be­By MARY GARINO cause she is still fighting an ill-Sports Writer ness. 
But the Irish still can look to Coming off a big win at senior Maureen Shea, who has Southern California, the wo­181 kills thus far as well as 56 men's cross country team total blocks. travels to Chicago this 
Notre Dame will need good weekend to compete in the Mid­passing and setting to get their western Collegiate Conference offensive arsenal into full championships. swing and lately have been get-This is the first year i!l t~e ting both from senior Whitney MCC for Notr~ Dame. Until thts Shewman and freshman Julie season, the Insh have been af­Bremner. filiated with the North Star 
Defensively, Bremner has Conference, whi~~ was smaller 213 digs to lead the Irish. Shew-and less competitive. man has 209 to follow Bremner Saturday's race will be atten­in that category. ded by nine teams, including 
Bremner also has been the J?ay~on, which place~ one posi­key to making a smooth transi-bon m,tront of_the Irtsh at la~t tion from defense to offense. months Natwnal Cathol~c She has given Irish hitters 1476 meet. The Dayto~ runners wtll assists thus far for an impres-pose the_ most serwus threat for sive assist percentage of .549. the Irtsh. M~rquette and 
"I think we got back on track L?yola,_ two soh~ teams, also with the win over Ohio State , wtll be m contention, but Notre said Lambert. "We just ne~d Dame fini~he~ ahead of both of to put it all together, and keep them ~arher m the year. it together, to win some Jumor runner Wendy Murray 
games." 

! SOPHOMORES-Interested ! i in the position of Sophomore ! ! Committee chairperson for Junior i i Parent's Weekend? ! 
: Applications available in the : : Office of Student Activities, 3rd : : Floor LaFortune. : : Que November 7th, 1988 by 5pm : 
r--------~~-----------.. 
t~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii"TiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiliiiiMiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiRiiiiiiii"iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil ~.i 


OICUR20 
//-----~ 
.-) _/ HAPPY
---<··· BIRTHDAY H. 
.,,,_ I 
·----.._ ./ .......____~ 
HAVE FUN-US 
llallo\veen SJtecialists All Rental Costumes only $20 to $2995 
As usual,_ we're Michiana's largest selec­tion of hats, wigs, masks, and costumes for sale or rent. Everything from A to Z -animal noses to Zombie masks, we've got it. We're open 9 to 9 everyday through Halloween. 
fj}jl Stoner'
~FUNSTORE~ 
It still is questionable whe­ther senior outside hitter 
for its 1st MCC race 
~\\l.t.it 
A BEAUX-ARTS COSTUME GALA SPONSORED BY THE A.I.A.S.-ND 
featuring "THE GROOVE" 
SAT. OCT 29, 9-2 
tickets on sale in 
dining halls 
$5.00 presale I $6.00 at door 

:I: 
CL. 
UJ 
en 
0
.., 
~ 
(/) 
is optimistic about the team's 
chances to win, especially after 
the victory at USC. 
"Everyone on the team is 
really positive about how we'll 
do," said Murray. "The USC 
meet was a big boost. We know 
now that we can run well to­
gether." 
Captain Theresa Rice 
backed this up. 
"There will be good compe­
tition, but we should win," she 
said. 
The team might feel the loss of Terry Kibelstis, a senior who will miss the race with a leg injury. Sophomore Jenny Ledrick, who sat out the first part of the season, will run, and Coach Tim Connelly says that she is in good shape. The rest of the team is at full strength. 
With the absence of Kibeis tis, the Irish will need good perfor­mances from Rice, Lucy Nus­raJa and Linda Filar, who have been the top three runners on the team so far this season. The Irish also should get support from Murray, Terese Lemanski and Kevaleen Ryan. The tlSC meet was the first race this• year when the lower half of the lineup made a sig­nificant contribution, and knowing that they can help will be important. 
"We've learned to work with each other," said Murray. "We're closer as a team, and that makes us stronger." 
The overall outlook for the Irish is good, according to Con­nelly. 
"I feel that if we can beat 
Dayton 
we can win," he said. 
3300 L.W.W. (U.S. 20) OPEN 24 HAS. 
LOW daily, weekly, group & student rates available. 
All modem, clean units, FREE cable, phone and coffee 
ALUMNI REUNION 


----------~  
page 18  The Observer  Friday, October 28, 1988  
SPORTS BRIEFS  Army prefers ground attacks  

Basketball season tickets will be distributed next week to only those students who applied earlier for tickets. On Friday, Nov. 4, those students who did not apply but still want tickets can wait in line for the 2,000 remaining season tickets. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold a meeting at 8:30 
p.m. on Tuesday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science. Hall. All those planning to try out for the team or planning to go to Steamboat must attend. Bring money from turtlenecks and the remaninder of the Steamboat money ($240). Those who can not make it to the meeting should call Woodsy at 288-5423. -The Observer 
WVFI-640 AM will carry the ND-Navy football game live from Baltimore, Md., on Saturday beginning at 10:30 
a.m. Join Steve Treppiccione and Kevin McCormick as they bring all the action from Memorial Stadium. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team is holding signups for anyone wanting to play on the team. Those interested must sign up on the roster and show proof of insurance at the NVA office by Wednesday. A team meeting will be held shortly after the roster deadline. Any questions should be directed to John Kirk at 289-1124. -The Observer 
Irish Outdoors is holding an organizational meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for the spring semester will be discussed. Questions should be directed to Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
The SMC 4-on-4 volleyball co-ed intramural tournament begins Sunday. Schedules are available at An­gela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The NO Squash Club is sponsoring a talk by Harvard squash coach David Fish on Saturday at 4:30 
p.m. on squash court one of the Joyce ACC. Coach Fish will speak on fundamentals and strategies of squash. -The Observer 
In NHL games Thursday, the Boston Bruins bounced the Quebec Nordiques 6-2, the Philadelphia Flyers tripped the New York Islanders 5-2 and the St. Louis Blues drowned the Pittsburgh Penguins 4-3. -Associated Press 
Bob Lohr shot a five-under-par 67 Thursday for a 36-hole tournament record of 129 and a three-shot lead at the halfway poiint in the $700,00 Walt Disney World Classic. 
-Associated Press 

Davey Johnson signed a three-year contract as manager of the New York Mets Thursday. Johnson's con­tract will begin at around $430,000 a year. The Mets went 100-60 to win the National League East this season, losing to the Los Angeles Dodgers in a seven-game National League championship series. -Associated Press 
IllAll1MNI ===== 
~!:CLUB 
FRI. United Way Night "Give a little, Help a lot" 
._._._••••·A·.•.·.-.·.·.•.·.-.,-.-.·.·.·.·.v.-.-.-.·.•,·.·.·.•.-.-.·.·.-.·.· 
SATURDAY Halloween Bash 
Cost 

lll1)e Con
test 
ill)c:J p . 
.,.l~es 

r\(e contest 
E\V\ra \oo\(-a ' 
let y our alter eg 
o Show 

Come out for a bloody good time 
Associated Press 
"Thou shall not pass" could be Army's motto this season. 
Since Coach Jim Young in­stalled the wishbone offense in 1984, the Cadets are 22-0 when they throw six passes or less, 31-4 when they throw nine times or less. When they put the ball in the air more than nine times, their record is a sorry 3-14-1. 
To paraphrase an old gag, Army is first in war, first in peace and last among the na­tion's 104 Division I-A teams in passing offense. In seven games, of which they have won six, the Cadets have thrown just 39 passes and completed 16 for an average of 56 yards a game. But they are third in rushing with a 377-yard average. 
Rutgers, which beat Mic­higan State and Penn State, was Army's latest victim, fal­ling 34-24 last Saturday. With Air Force, Vanderbilt, Boston College and Navy left, a 10-1 season is certainly possible. 
''Army has a certain element 
RIT 
continued from page 20 
said Schafer. "I wouldn't be surprised if they were on a par with St. Cloud State." 
Notre Dame split a two-game series at St. Cloud State last weekend. 
Scott Brown, who led RIT in points last year, is one of the 
of discipline simply by the na­
ture of their institution," Rut­
gers coach Dick Anderson said. 
"The wishbone, I think, is 
tailored to their temper, tail­
ored to their institution, be­
cause it involves an extreme 
amount of discipline. I think 
they play it exceptionally well. 
"They're not very big up 
front offensively or defensive­
ly, and yet they come after you 
very tough, very tough." 
Coach Bob Ricca of St. John's 
(N.Y.) University has seen 
both sides of the NCAA's new 
conversion rule which allows 
the defensive team to score two 
points. 
Earlier in the season, with 
the score tied 24-24, the Red­
men blocked an extra-point at­
tempt by Iona and ran it all the 
way for two points and a 26-24 
victory. 
Last Saturday, C.W. Post 
scored a touchdown to pull 
within 21-20 and lined up for an 
extra point that could have tied 
the young season. Bankoske has five assists, while Herber has two goals and two assists. Schafer said he plans to make some changes in the lines for this weekend's games. With Alaska-Anchorage having scored four shorthanded goals on Tuesday, Schafer also is in­serting a different power play unit. He had five forwards on the power play in Tuesday's 
returning players. Brown game. scored 21 goals with 30 assists "We'll have a different last season. Other top scorers power play setup with a couple returning are center Chris Pal-more defensemen," said the game. 
St. John's blocked it, but this 
time the ball bounced right 
back to holder Tim Mcintee, 
who alertly passed to tight end 
Todd Hokunson in the end zone. 
Instead of a 21-21 tie, Post led 
22-21 and went on to win 29-21. 
"Although we do not have a designed play for a blocked ex­tra point, we do have a play called 'Red-Red' for botched field goals where the ball recoverer throws to the tight end," Coach Tom Marshall said. "I give Tim a lot of credit. He had the wherewithal to regroup and make a great play." 
Mcintee is better known as a three-time All-American lacrosse player and is playing collegiate football for the first time. 
In addition, he is a defensive back who ranked among the Division III leaders with seven interceptions in five games. 
Schafer. "It (five forwards) contributes to our offensive po­tential, but it's potentially dis­astrous too, and we paid dearly for it. "That's a bad lesson, and we don't want it to happen again." 
The first 500 people to enter Saturday's game will receive plastic goaltender's masks in a promotional event sponsored by Travel-More. 


mer (27 goals, 14 assists) and ,..______.;..___~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.:_ 
forward James Cotie (17, 19). 
RIT also has its top goaltender back in Fred Abra­ham, who recorded an 11-7 record with a 4.13 goals against average last year. 
"It's their first series of the year with a new coach, so one never knows what to expect," said Schafer. 
Freshman David Bankoske and senior Bobby Herber lead the Irish in points thus far in 
AND 
~ ~ar-ioi'o ~~ ~ §R}otor-an.tc .A; ~
~ 

Now Hiring full time experienced waitresses able to start at 3 pm and part time banquet waitresses. Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave. 
T·SHIRTS SWEATS MUCH MORE!! 
YOUR DESIGN SCREEN 
PRINTED TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 _ 
NOTRE DAM INDIANA 255 4239 
.. 
------------------------, 

Friday, October 28, 1988 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 
FRIDAY 
12:15 • 1:00 p.m. Friday Forum at the CSC Lecture series, "The New Literatures: Reflections on African Literature in the Curriculum" by Prof. Donald Sniegowski at the CSC. 
7:30p.m. Volleyball: ND vs. Nebraska, JACC Arena. 
7:30 p.m. Hockey: ND vs. Rochester Institute of Technology, JACC Fieldhouse, also Saturday, October 29. 
SATURDAY 
7:30 p.m. ISO Banquet in the Faculty Dining Hall (2nd Fl. South Dining Hal)). Tickets $5.00 
8:00 p.m. Carroll Hall Haunted House. Admission is $1.00. 
11 :1 o a.m; Football: ND vs. Navy at Baltimore 
7:30 p.m. Volleyball: ND vs. Louisiana State University, JACC. 
SUNDAY 2:30-4:30 p.m. Urban Plunge, Library Auditorium. 
3:00 p.m. Sotovento, a Latin American Band performs in the Annenberg Auditorium. Tickets are $4.00 at the LaFortune information desk. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30 p.m. "On the Ordering of Things: Heidegger and Foucault on the Dangers of Modernity," by Prof. Hubert Dreyfus, in the Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Meatball Sub Batter-fried Perch Fried Clams Cheese Enchiladas 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
~ 
y 

Saint Mary's 

Tomato Meat Loaf w/ Gravy Pizza Deluxe Baked Cod Deli Bar 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Like many a marathon finisher 
8 Kind of horse or camel 15 Prosaic 16 Goon 11 Spnng 10 Mortifies 19 Utah ski resort 20 Defame 22 NY.C. transit line ..23 Playwnght Simon 24 Tell good jokes 25 Curtain raiser 26 Draft org. 

27 Act the coquette 28 Semisheer fabric 29 Rubberneck's 
activity 31 St. Sebastian, for one 32 Accommoda· 
lions 34 Mark of shame 37 Bush or Dukakis. 
e.g. 40 Where a kadein 
lives 41 Port for Pompey 42 Rosary bead 44 At any time 45 George of the 
Royals 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

46 Math dept.  
subject  
47 Fam. member  
48 Journey on an  
Autobahn  
49 Broad  
50 New Orleans  
confection  
52 Wis. city and  
county  
55 Poe's "-Lee"  
56 Noted  
57 Cruel ones  
58 Entertains  
DOWN  
1 Gathers leftovers  
2 Random  
3 Advocate of  
centralized  
government  
4 Kind of code  
5 Ethan Allen's  
brother  
6 -Turner,  
Styron hero  
1 Lustrous  21 Colonial Va.'s  31 Kind of badge  41 Miradors  
a Hornfied 9Awaken 10 Flic's weapon 11 Necessity for a baby 12 Unlawful 13ln a wide-awake  Houseof­24 Actress Valli 25 Large blood vessel 27 Psychoanalyst Erich 20 Letter-turner White  33 Grumbled indistinctly 34 Himalayan guides 35 Athens cafe 36 Jill or John of films 38 U.S. s~ace  43 Discharges 45 Poet Stephen Vincent 46 Plaything for a kitten 48 Teases 51 Chou En ­--­ 
manner  30 "Phil the Fiddler"  probe  53 Pierre's friend  
14 Meaner  author  39 Obvious  54 Ovid's 104  


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

The End (Act One) 




Bill Watterson 

Sports

Friday, October 28, 1988 page 20 
NO lacrosse hosts Johns Hopkins tonight 
.. 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 

The excitement and anticipa­tion surrounding the Notre Dame lacrosse game tonight against John Hopkins Univer­sity can be seen in something as simple as door prizes. 
The prizes to be awarded ac­cording to program numbers and the halftime shootout in­clude Notre Dame lacrosse sticks and sweatshirts, two general admission tickets to the Penn State football game and a pizza a month for a year from Godfather's Pizza. 
But every fan who attends this eventful game should be awarded by the play of Notre Dame and John Hopkins, who 
ND to host Tom Fallon Invitational 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 

In honor of the grandfather of Notre Dame men's tennis, Notre Dame hosts the Tom Fal­lon-Notre Dame Invitational this weekend at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"I thought you had to be dead to have a tournament named after you and I'm not quite there yet," said Fallon, who coached both the tennis and wrestling teams at Notre Dame. 
Fallon, the winningest coach 
in Irish history, coached the 
men's team for 31 years (1957­
1987). Fallon posted a 517-200 
during his reign. He also estab­
lished the Irish wrestling pro­
gram and coached that team 
for 15 years. 

"It is a very great honor for 
me," said Fallon who was in­
ducted into the collegiate ten­
nis Hall of Fame this past Au­
gust. "It will be a homecoming 
of sorts, since I know some of 
the opposing coaches and 
players." 

Current Irish coach Bob 
Bayliss had this to say about 
Fallon: 
see FALLON, page 16 



many refer to as "the Notre Dame of college lacrosse." 

Although the official NCAA season does not begin until the spring, first-year Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said the Irish will be "doing everything we can to win the game." Faceoff will be 6:30p.m. at Ed­ward J. "Moose" Krause Stadium or the Loftus Center, depending on the weather. 
The Irish will be trying to fuse the leadership of senior tri­captains John Olmstead, Kevin. O'Connor and Doug Spencer with an experienced defense and a very young midfield. 
Olmstead once again will lead the Irish attack. Olmstead led the team in scoring last season with 33 goals and 25 as-
Kevin O'Connor 

sists, and he is the fifth leading scorer in Irish history. Addi­tionally, Olmstead holds Irish records for total points in a game (nine) and assists in a game (seven). 
"John is an outstanding indi· vidual and will be very impor­tant to our success this year," said Corrigan. "He hasn't played much this fall, but he makes good decisions on the field and we need him in prac­tice to make the whole team better.'' 
Playing alongside Olmstead will be juniors Brian McHugh and Rob Lynn. McHugh, the team's strongman, was second in scoring last season and one of the team leaders in ground balls. Lynn, who Corrigan says has been a pleasant surprise, will be making his first start after seeing limited action last spring. 
Lynn will be starting for fel­low junior Dave Carey, who is nursing an ankle injury. Cor­rigan said Carey still should be able to contribute. 
The Irish midfield warrants the greatest concern with 10 of last years midfielders lost to graduation, injury, cuts and re­positioning. Most notable is the loss of last year's tri-captains, who composed the first middie­line. This year's line contains no seniors and only one junior (Mike Quigley). 
Quigley will be starting alongside sophomore John Capano and freshman Chris Nelson. The second middie line has an all-freshman look with Brian Shirf, Mike Sullivan, and Doug Murray. 
"We are awfully young at 
see HOPKINS, page 14 

JACC doubledomer 
NO volleyball action in South Dome 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Cornhuskers might not be the most intimidating mascots, but they are some of the toughest volleyball players in the country. 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team will find out how tough they really are as they take on the Cornhuskers tonight in the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish, 11-8 after defeating Ohio State in three games Tues­day night, will try to claim their third top 20 victim of the season against Nebraska. 
Notre Dame beat Kentucky, which was ranked seventh at the time, and Pacific, then ­ranked 15th, and now faces a sixth-ranked Nebraska team that holds a 3-0 advantage over the Irish in their series history. 
Nebraska is 18-3 thus far in the season, with its losses com­ing at the hands of top 20 power­houses San Diego State, Illinois and Oklahoma. 
The Cornhuskers have shucked their last seven oppo­
see HUSKERS, page 17 

Irish hockey games in North Dome 
games at the Joyce ACC. 
"It's time for our hockey team to make amends," said Schafer. "I think it (Tuesday) was just a bad night. Now it's over, and we carry on. Better play is ahead of us." 
RIT, a Division III school, opens its first season under new coach Buddy Powers this weekend. The Tigers return 20 players from last year's 14-15-1 team. 
"They're one of the better Division III teams in the country year in and year out," 
see RIT, page 18 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame hockey team enters its first home weekend series tonight hoping to keep last Tuesday's home opener in the past. 
Alaska-Anchorage buried the Irish 8-3 last Tuesday in what Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer termed "a collectively poor ef­fort." The Irish will need to be in much better form if they are to challenge the Rochester In­stitute of Technology this weekend. Faceoff is 7:30p.m. for both Friday and Saturday's 
Irish may be 'raising Arizona' over New Year's 
It might be too early to call the Irish football team Fiesta Bowl bound, but I think I'm going to the travel agency soon to check on the price of a plane ticket to Tempe, Ariz. 
A number of things could happen between now and after the Notre Dame-Penn State game on Nov. 19, when bowl bids are officially extended. But right now the Fiesta Bowl looks to have the best oppor­tunity to attract the 7-0, second-ranked Irish. 
Assuming Notre Dame takes care of Navy and Rice (a bold prediction if ever there was one) and then beats Penn State in the final home game of the season, two teams could be in a position to make Tempe attractive to the Irish on Jan. 2: 
West Virginia: The Mountaineers probably would face Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl if they remain undefeated. But that won't be an easy task. The No. 7 team in the nation takes on Penn State, Rut­gers and Syracuse before bowl bids are extended. 
Florida State: The No. 6 Seminoles also are in the Fiesta hunt, but must travel to South Carolina next weekend, then get past Virginia Tech at home before the bids go out. 
Keep in mind that these scenarios are only valid if the Irish remain unbeaten over the next three ames. 
One great thing about the Fiesta Bowl is that if the Irish play in it, Miami will not. Sorry, Jimmy. No rematch. 
The Pac-10 and Big Ten have announced that the runners-up in those two conferences will not accept bids because the Fiesta Bowl airs on NBC television in the same time slot the Rose Bowl holds on ABC­TV. 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 

The time might be changing, however, if the Fiesta can set up a game for the national title (which would exclude the USC-UCLA loser, anyway). In addition, assuming Notre Dame and West Virginia or Florida State win the rest of their games, a loss by UCLA somewhere almost certainly would be necessary for the Fiesta to stage a national title game. 
"If we're able to match up a 1 vs. 2, or 1 vs. 3, and we believe it would de ermine the national 
championship, we would seriously consider movin~t 
the game to prime time on either Jan. 1 or Jan. 3," 
Fiesta team-selection chairman Don Meyers said. 
This arrangement was made two seasons ago 
when Penn State defeated Miami in the Fiesta 
Bowl's national championship matchup on Jan. 2. 
All the other major bowls were played on New 
Year's Day, as usual. 
Blocking such a move is an NCAA agreement with the bowls not to change the date, time or site of the bowl games after Sept. 1. The NCAA probably would stop the move unless the Fiesta Bowl could prove that it would be helpful to more than just the Fiesta Bowl (ie. helping the Rose Bowl ratings). 
Of course, if West Virginia and Florida State are tripped up during the next few weeks, a date with Nebraska or Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl, a return trip to the Cotton Bowl for a game with Arkansas, or a visit to the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans to meet the Southeastern Conference champion might be­come attractive to the Notre Dame Athletic Depar­tment. 
I hope I don't have to go through this many options at the travel a enc ...or the Tern a· ort. 











