Frig~ ~ -~-,
IACCENT: Himmelman displays 'rebel mind' Mostly sunny today, high 15 to 20. Clear tonight, low around 5 above. Partly sunny
IVIEWPOINT: Hart for President? 
Thursday. High 20 tQ 25: 


VOL. XXI, NO. 77 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Some senior crass events affected by closing of club 
By KENDRA MORRILL around," said Fitzgibbon. The if the club would reopen, but Copy Editor event planned for Jan. 16 at added, "not under my owner­Mitchell's, featuring the band ship, anyway." 
Several senior class events The Kinetics, had to be can­The building's owners, Mike will have to be cancelled or celled, she said. Sellers and Tom Cavinder, are changed this semester because In addition, the senior class considering opening their own Mitchell's Indiana Club has was planning to have the band restaurant and entertainment closed its doors, according to Dr. Bop appear at Mitchell's spot, leasing it to another Senior Class President Diane during Senior Week in May, nightclub or restaurant oper­Fitzgibbon. said Fitzgibbon. This will also ator, or finding a completely 
The South Bend club, which have to be changed, she said. different use for the building, frequently hosted Notre Dame The club hosted last semes­according to a South Bend and Saint Mary's senior class ter's Weddingless Reception Tribune article. events, closed on Jan. 7 because and Senior Christmas Formal, If Sellers and Cavinder find of lack of business, according both of which "went over really a way to open a new nightclub to Steve Mitchell, the former well," according to Fitzgibbon. in the building by the end of owner of the club. "Mitchell's was the one place January, the article continues, 
The business which Notre we knew we could go and get a they will probably open with Dame gave the club was lot of people to attend," she the already-booked Blue "pretty good," said Mitchell, said. "I'm sorry to see them Oyster Cult performance. but those events were held go." mostly in the banquet rooms. The lease on the building was They will also honor bookings "It took more than that to run up on Jan. 15, but the building's for social events such as Notre it," Mitchell said. owners forced Mitchell out of Dame/Saint Mary's events. 
The club's closing "switches business early, he said. Fitzgibbon said she hoped the some Senior Month plans Mitchell said he did not know club would reopen. 

HPC must plan events for funds 
By LIZ PORTER come at the beginning of the Lewis, Sorin, Walsh, and Old year, but we've been College.
News Staff 
deceived." District 3 will be made up of 
Joe Cassidy, director of stu­In previous years, the presi­Badin, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, dent activities, asked the hall dents have been able to use the Lyons, Morrissey, and presidents to submit proposals funds as they wished, and Pangborn, with Carroll as a for non-alcoholic hall events in several used the money to fund new addition. order to utilize a $12,000 Uni­more than one event. versity fund set aside for this The newly established Office Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla purpose. of Alcohol and Drug Education, West and Pasquerilla East will Social scope 
University resources, along along with the Office of Student remain in District 4. District 5 with money from a federal Activities, will direct the im­will also exist as before, only Freshmen Matt O'Connor and Allison Devers learn the swing step in grant, comprise the fund which plementation of the new Uni­including off-campus students. their social dance class. This invaluable tool will help them become will provide each dorm with versity fund. Dave Dannison, predatory animals at their next SYR. $500 to hold one large social director of the new office, said event. Dorms may pool their he hoped to "help promote 

Engineering initiates foreign
resources to hold larger func­healthy attitudes about alcohol tions. and drugs," through the re­
• 

The presidents generally sources provided. 
study program 1n London
supported the purpose of the Senator Brian Holst reported fund, but said organizing the on the upcoming student body 
By NATASHA WILSON ty," Lucey said. The students which cannot be foundactivities in the last weeks of elections, as well as individual 
Staff Reporter will take two courses, three anywhere in the United States. 
their presidencies would be dif­class elections. 
credit hours each, in a concen­Jerger said he and Lucey
ficult. The senate voted to maintain Notre Dame engineering stu­trated format, meeting two have been trying to develop aWith only six more weeks in five senate districts, although dents, previously restricted by hours a day, three days a week. foreign program for five years.
office, Eric Emerson, co­some redistricting was neces­a rigid academic curriculum, Jerger and Lucey will teach At first, he said, they envi­president of Flanner Hall, said, sary to accomodate the will now have the opportunity ME 342, Engineering Eco­sioned a program for the fall"It will be a challenge to be opening of Knott and Siegfried to study abroad in the same nomy, and ME 468, Engineer­and spring semesters, butcreative, but it's a good initia­halls next fall. The new dorms manner Arts and Letters stu­ing Aspects of Product could not fit it into the curric­tive. It's up to the presidents to will join District 2, comprised dents have had for many years. Liability. ulum.
get the events going." of Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, The College of Engineering "These are two courses that In this summer program stu­Jeff Dorschner, president of Farley, St. Edward's, and will begin a six-week summer we can tailor a little bit to the dents can take popular engine­St. Edward's Hall, also sup­Zahm. 
program at Notre Dame's European situation," Lucey ering elective courses abroadported the idea, but com­Keenan and Stanford will facility in London, England this said. and still remain on schedule to mented, "The hall presidents now be included in District 1 
June. He said the courses will in­graduate. Previously, when
assumed the money would with Alumni, Holy Cross, 

Bush clash exploited 

Associated Press journalist trying to mug the vice president.'' "I don't want to have a big
WASHINGTON -George 
running fight with Dan

Bush's campaign aides said 
Rather," said Bush when

Tuesday the public backs 
asked about the incident

Bush in his televised clash 
while campaigning in

with CBS anchorman Dan 
Cheyenne, Wyo.

Rather, and they moved 
"He's got to do his thing;

quickly to exploit what they called a case of "an unfair see CLASH, page 3 
Professors Edward Jerger clude a study of the differences engineering students partici­and John Lucey of the Depart­between laws governing prod­.pated in foreign study pro­ment of Aerospace and Me­uct liability and taxes in En­grams, they would often miss chanical Engineering will gland and those in the United required courses and credits, direct the program and teach States. delaying their graduation, the courses. The students will also jour­Lucey said. 
The program, which will run ney to important engineering "We're encouraged by the from June 27 to Aug. 5, "will facilities in England, he added. fact that Notre Dame has so give students a chance to study "We plan to do the course many foreign programs which in a foreign culture and observe work during the middle of the have been so successful," industry in another country,'' week and have several long Jerger said. Jerger said. weekends for travel, both Since engineering majors do 
"When they get out and start structured and unstructured.'' not usually take foreign lan­practicing engineering, they'll He said they will visit the flood guages, London was the most be practicing in an interna­gates on the Thames River be­tional technological communi-cause of their unique structure, see LONDON, page 4 
~---------------~-~~---~ ~~-
VVednesday, Janua~27, 1988

page 2 The Observer 
Say those magic words: Second Semester Senior 
In Brief _-. ·_. · Sex on T.V. has created an unrealistic pictu;e of sexual responsibility, a study released Tuesday said. Network television characters have increasingly replaced sexual innuendo with sexual activity, much of it casual and with­out consequence, according to the study. Spokesman at ABC and NBC disputed the findings. According to the study, the three networks broadcast 65,000 references to sexual behavior in the 1987-88 television season, an average of 27 references per hour. -Associated Press Taking an aspirin every other day can cut the risk of heart attacks nearly in half for healthy men, according to a major new study. Aspirin is widely recommended for people who already have had heart attacks or strokes. But the new research is the first to show that regular aspirin is good for those whose hearts are still outwardly healthy. -Associated Press Of Interest Summer Service Project application deadline is Feb. 1. Applications will be available at the Center for Social Concerns this week. -The Observer St. Joseph's Hospital volunteer program will hold a meeting tonight in Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall at 7. -The Observer The World Hunger Coalition will be holding its first meeting of the semester tonight at 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited to attend. -The Obser­ver Constitutional interpretation will be discussed in a joint speech by Daniel Manion, U.S. circuit judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals, and Sotirios Barber, Notre Dame professor of government and international studies. Manion and Barber will speak at Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's tonight at 7. -The Observer A Chilean lunch will be served at the Center for Social Concerns tomorrow from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. This is the first luncheon of the Spring Series and will benefit the CILA Mexico Program. -The Observer Juniors interested in reading at the JPW Mass should come to Sacred Heart Church today at 4 p.m. Anyone interested in helping write the communion meditation for the Mass should contact Helen at 283-4416 or Nancy at 283-2764. -The Observer The Bagpipe Club will hold anorganizational meeting tonight at 7 in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. No experience is necessary, and the club is open to any stu­dents or faculty. For more information, contact Paul Har­ren at 283-3475. -The Observer Project Head Start·will have a meeting tonight at the Center for Social Concerns from 6: 30 to 7: 30 for all those interested in teaching 4-year-old preschoolers basic skills. The program takes place from 8 a.m. to 10:45 a.m. on Tuesday andlor Thursday mornings. Transportation is provided. -The Observer  
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. )JMtC Call 239-6900 ~  
Design Editor .. . Lisa Tugmann Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge Design Assistant .. . . . . .. Annette Rowland Viewpoint layout.. ............. Laura Manzi Typesetters.. Tom Elliott Typists...... . . . . .. . . . . . . Jenn Conlon News Editor.... ... . . . ... Ann Durning ............................................. Will Zamer Copy Editor.. .. .. Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editors ............... Carrie McCall Sports Copy Editor .............. Pete Skiko Photographer ...................... Mike Moran Accent Copy Editor ....... Susan Buckley Sports Wednesday Editor .. Brian O'Gara Accent Layout Heather Hypes Sports Wednesday layout ...... Joe Zadony De Ot.ner (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. neO'*"er is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writina ne OIJeenoer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. ne Oll.ener is a member of ne Alloc:laled Pnu. All reproduction riahts are reserved.  

Recently, a fan who reads my column religi------------------­ously and thinks that I make Tolstoy look like 
Mike

a hack asked me, "Mike, why haven't you writ­ten anything lately?" 

Naughton
"I can't, Mom," I replied. "I'm a Second Se­mester Senior." 
"Oh." Accent Editor Some words and phrases have a power of-----------------­
their own. There are incantations, war cries, shibboleths and mantras. All are sources of magic and energy. Eastern spiritualists say "Ommm," Irish football fans. say "Lou," Democrats say "Bush in '88." The most powerful type of word, however, is the designation. The designation is a word or phrase that unites individuals into groups and gives them a common identity and purpose. Individuals become "Hoosiers," "Domers," or "The Dancin' Irish." 


Those Notre Dame students who anticipate graduating in May have a designation of their own: They are "Second Semester Seniors." 
The power of this designation is understood by all of us who smell the real world in the wind; we use it primarily as a justification ("I have two papers due tomorrow, but I'm going to the bars because, hey, I'm a Second Semester Senior") and as a challenge ("I know that you have two papers due tomorrow, but why aren't you going to the bars? Hey, you're a Second Semester Senior.'') 
I am the last person to condemn my peers for neglecting their studies and drinking too much, but at the risk of preaching I would like to suggest that both of these examples reveal a misunderstanding of the freedom which is to be found in the powerful phrase ''Second Se­mester Senior." 
The Second Semester Senior is a creature who can be understood in terms of one central at­Senior, impose a new set of responsibilities on tribute: responsibility. He hates it. A sense of themselves. They recognize that their days of responsibility comes from the feeling that you being irresponsibility incarnate are numbered; have a duty or owe something to others; the they respond by making it their duty to be ir­Second Semester Senior feels --with some jus­responsible. They go out every night because tification ---that he does not owe anything to they "have to" even if they would rather stay anyone. at home. 
He has worked diligently, more or less, for at least three and a half years. Now he either The pressure which they once felt from has a job, which means that he has already 
classes is nothing compared to the anxietybeen "rewarded" for his work in college and which compels them to drink even when they can now rest on his laurels, or he has no job, would rather not for fear of "missing a Notre which means that his education has been a com­Dame moment." Moments cannot be forced,plete failure and there is no point in pursuing and fun under compulsion is unlikely. 
it any further. In either case, the only reason for him to do Because I have the freedom to be irrespon­any work at all is because he wants to. sible does not mean that I am obligated to ex­It is ironic then that some misguided souls, ercise that freedom. through the power of being a Second Semester Mter all, I'm a Second Semester Senior. 

MERRILL LYNCH & CO., INC. 
Will Be On Campus To Conduct Interviews for the 
CONSUMER MARKETS 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
on 
February 3, 1988 
the world of 

Please contact the Placement 
financial services? Director for an interview 
~Merrill Lynch 
Merrill Lynch is an Equal Employment Opportunity Emplo}er. 
VVednesday, Janua~27, 1988 
Reagan: continue giving Contra aid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan told congressional leaders Tuesday he will seek $36.25 million in mostly non­lethal aid to Nicaraguan rebels, with $3.6 million of it set aside for arms and ammunition but held in abeyance pending a cease-fire. 
Under the plan, Reagan would issue a certification on March 31 as to whether a cease­fire was in effect between the Contra rebels and the leftist Sandinista government of Nicaragua and whether other conditions had been met. 
"If there is no cease-fire in place, then I would assume the president would feel the pres­sure has got to continue to be applied for release of further military assistance," House Republican leader Robert Mic­hel of Illinois told reporters. 
The aid package is designed to keep the Contras supplied for four months. At one time, Sec­retary of State George Shultz had said the administration planned to seek $270 million to cover an 18-month period. 
"Now that it's down to proportion, we've got good grounds to sell the (House) membership, partly on the basis of what happens in a worst-case scenario when it goes down," Michel said. "You cannot divorce that issue from presidential politics in this country as we go into another election." 
But House Democratic Whip Tony Coelho of California said, "It isn't going anywhere. It's just a political ploy to gather a few more votes." 

r-.._........_...---·--------------·~ 
: Applications for Theodore's t Student Managers for the I 1988-1989 school year will be I aval·lable I·n the St d t 
, . . . . u en
I ActiVIties Office
I f b h
1 a ter Fe . 5. T ey must
b t d • b b

I1 e urne In \V Fe . 22. 
I 


Dave Dannison, director of the Office of Alcohol and cil about how dorms can spend the money allocated Drug Education, speaks to the Hall Presidents' Coun-for non-alcoholic events. Sto~ on page 1. 
Clash 
continued frof/i page 1 
I "Any time any Republican
,_____________::.z._;______-J ets into a fight with Dan 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR PART II A GUIDANCE PROGRAM by 
EMIL T. HOFMAN DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 26 

6:30 P.M., 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY, JANUARY 28 6:30P.M., 8:00 P.M. 
(All four programs will be the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.) 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
,--·-··-..-...-.._..--..-..-.-··--··~·-·----.......---·--~..-..._..._.__,
I What Catholics Should Know About ... 
I r.~: :~~ ~~ ~~f~:c/sm';a~~c~~~ t ~~~~fJ.mycasetothepeople,"
I However, Bush campaignIaides saw nothing wrong with crossing swords wi~h the c~s anchorman, long VIewed with 
contempt by manyI Republicans. 
I 
l SuPlday, February 7arul Tt11'91ay, FebrUary 9 
I 
I 

I 
I 
Sunday, Febrtltl"' 21 and Tuesday, Februar:l' 23 
I t 

Sunda;\ February 14 aml'7lie!;day, February 16 
Church 

Sr. Regina Coil, C.SJ., Department Q[71.mlogv 
Sunday, Febrtltl"' 28 and Ttiesda): March I 
Sacraments 
Fr. Robert Kennedy, Doc/om! Cc/1/didale ill 71Jeology 
.\imdt~l'. A/arch 6 and 'fuerday, March 8 
Morality 
Fr. Drew Christiansen, SJ., Depar/m£'1/t q(71x'O/of:{)' 
7 -8:30p.m., Kccnan-Sranfonl Chapel 
Rrgl•trollon forms will be :molloblt at hoth Offic"" of C8mptL1 Ministry: McmorlaiiJbrary-239-6536 Badin Jlall-239-5242 
Sponsoml by the Office of Campwo Ministry 


OFFICE OF 
(l\MPUSMINISTRY 
Rather and wins, he's going to come out very well with Repub­lican primary voters," said Lee Atwater, Bush's campaign manager. 
Rather said on Tuesday night's newscast that "trying to ask honest questions is part of a reporter's job," adding that he respects Bush and the office of the vice presidency. 
"I got powder burns," said former secretary of state Alex­ander Haig when asked if he had watched the confrontation. During Republican presiden­tial debates, Haig has aggres­sively questioned Bush about his Iran-Contra role. 
"I think in the near-term Bush came out ahead," said Haig. "But in the longer term, they'll both lose.'' 
In Iowa, where presidential rival Bob Dole leads Bush in most polls, the Kansas senator's campaign chairman, Stephen Roberts, said running against Rather in the state was "not a bad bet." 
Atwater said that even if the confrontation does not boost Bush enough to beat Dole in Iowa, it will help the vice pres­ident in the next big contest, the New Hampshire primary. 
"And I guarantee you, it'll play stronger than grits in the South." he said. 
During the nine-minute live segment on the evening news, Bush said, "You know what I'm hiding? What I told the presi­dent. That's the only thing. And I've answered every question put before me." 
The Observer ­
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
. 

SMC Day Editors paid position 12:30-3:00 M-F 
For further Information contact 
Sandy at 284-5011 

IDENTIAL AND SENATORIAL ELECTIONS 
Informational Meeting 
Thursday, January 28 6:00P.M. Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Mandatory Meeting 
Tuesday, February 2 
6:00 P.M. Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune 


VVednesday, Janua~27, 1988

page 4 The Observer 
More than $10 million received in December for research 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received more than $10.5 million in grants during December, most of which was for research. 
The University received $10,571,083 in grants during December for the support of re­search and various programs. Research funds totaled $10,478,106, including: 
--$9,801,667 from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for re­search on the effects of radia­tion on matter, directed by Robery Schuler, director of the Radiation Laboratory and pro­fessor of radiation chemistry. 
--$152,382 from IBM for the 

•\evelopment of VLSI CAD sys­tem for the IBM PC RT by Chong Ho Lee, assistant profes­sor of electrical and computer engineering. 
--$112,360 from the U.S. Navy for research directed by John Dow, Freimann professor of physics, on the theory of super­lattices. 
--$109,170 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Stephen Carpenter, assistant professor of biologi­cal sciences, on cascading trop­hic interactions. 
--$64,500 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Alexander Lappin, associate professor of chemistry, on stereoselectivity in electron transfer. 
--$57,702 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Yih-Fang Huang, as­sociate professor of electical and computer engineering, on information-intelligent recur­sive estimation. 
--$47,999 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Paul Helquist, pro­fessor of chemistry, on new organometallic polycyclic an­nulation procedures. 
--$30,800 from the Indiana State Board of Health for the Regional Genetics Cen­tel/Human Genetics Program Grant, directed by Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences. 
--$27,983 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Francis Castellino, 
London 
continued from page 1 
practical site for the program, Lucey said. 
The group will reside in flats in London's Bayswater area. Each flat, equipped with bath and cooking facilities, will house five students. Two resi­dent assistants will also live with the students, Lucey said. 
The program cost of $3000 in­cludes tuition, housing and round-trip air fare from New York. If less than 20 students participate in the program the University will subsidize the 
remaining  expenses,  Lucey  
said.  
Sixteen  students  applied  

before the deadline last week. "There are still a couple of spots, so if somebody applied, we'd take four or five more," Lucey said. "We can handle 20 to 25 in the classroom over there." 
Lucey said he expects the program to gain popularity next year, similar to the expan­sion of the Arts and Letters foreign program in London during its first few years. 
"We hope eventually to get that kind of situation where we can be selective," Lucey said. 
--$13,044 from Earthwatch for research by J. Keith Rigby, assistant professor of earth sciences, on the last of the North American dinosaurs. 
$3,000 from the Indiana Arts Commission for "Indigenous Life--Indiana Arts Commis­sion Individual Artist Fellow­ship," administered by Richard Gray, assistant pro­fessor of art, art history and design. 
--$1,500 from American Friends of the Vatican Library for an AFVL preservation grant, administered by Robert Miller, University libraries. 
dean of the College of Science and Kleidereli'Pezold professor of biochemistry, on blood coagulation protein-metal ion­lipid interactions. 
--$27,500 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Stephen Fallon, assistant pro­fessor in the Program of Liberal Studies, on Milton and seventeenth century metap­hysics. 

--$23,000 from Research Corp. for research by Walter Tomasch, professor of physics, on high-temperature magnetic superconductors. 


PLAY YOUR CARDS RIGHT AND 
YOU'LL GET MORE SPECIAL SAVINGS. 
Sometimes we just don't 

know when to stop. Not only does Domino's Pizza$ deliver a great deal like Doubles­two pizzas for one special price-but now we've topped that off with even more savings. And Domino's Pizza delivers its freshly-baked, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Or we'll slice another $3 off the price. So clip these coupons and call Domino's Pizza today. 
,................, 
I Great I I Meal I! Deal $8.88 i 
I Just $8.88 for two regular I I small cheese pizzas. I I Not valid with any other I I offer. Additional toppings I I available at reaular price I I I 
I Expires: 11.31!88 I 
i • '"·~~...,..~00· i
I m® Customer pays app icable sales tax.• 
I I 
I I 
L.••••••••••••••.J 
II. 
a 
Call Us! 
South Bend 

277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
c 1988 Dom1no·s P1zza. Inc 

,---------------.,I 
Think I 
I 
I 
I 
1 
1 
I 
I I 1 1 
II Dll 1miJ® 
I
I 
L 

Thick I $6.00 I 
I Only $6.00 for a 12" pizza I with thick crust, extra I cheese and pepperoni. I Good on Thursdays only. I One coupon per order. I Not valid with any other · I offer. I 
I 

Expires 11.31188 ~ 
1 Valid at part1c1pat1ng stores only I Customer pays applicable sales 1 tax. 
.J 

,---------------.,I 
Dinner I 
I 
I 
I
I I I I I I I 
!I a~ 
II 151111® 1 

L.--------------.1 
for 4 I $10.99 I 
I 

Ask for the Dinner for 4 1 special and get a 16" 1 two-topping pizza plus 1 four icy cold 12 oz. cans 1 of Coke' for just $10.99. 1 One coupon per order. 1 Not valid with any other 1 ~m. 1 
Expires 11.31 188 
I 

I Valid al part1c1pat1ng stores only. 1 ~~stomer pays applicable sales I 

.r----------~----------------------------------~----------------------~----------------------·--------~-----------­
Viewpoint
VVednesday,Janua~27, 1988 page 5 
Morality and the Presidential race 
Gary Hart. By now, we are all would be lessened. For years stories minorities. On the other hand, if Ken­otherwise and so are the press who familiar with the images this man's and rumors abounded in Washington, nedy was guilty as charged, he neces­claim that bad judgment is the only name conjures: Carribbean cruises and Hart made no effort to quell the sarily lacked, to some degree, that ele­character issue at stake here. The ques­with young, attractive women... Par-charges or break off his personal con­ment of character by which we deem tion of our time, and of all times, is not ties with Don Henly in Aspen... Press tacts with other women. Hart's di­men and women to be morally virtuous. how to rule, but who should rule, as 
stakeouts in Washington, D.C. But the lemma did not begin with the Donna Had Kennedy been more virtuous, he Plato and Aristotle rightly understood Gary Hart affair needs to be examined Rice affair; it was merely confirmed. would have been an even greater pres­it. Indeed all human beings are sinful: in a much larger context, as its sig­The public debate concerning Hart's ident. · it is precisely this condition which nificance lies at the core of our political actions is improperly focused. Issues The complexity of this debate con­should motivate us to choose from system. The context is one that has surrounding the affair have been cerns how much emphasis we should among the best, most excellent men 
gone largely ignored, yet it concerns clouded not only by the man himself, place on a politician's personal moral and women to serve as our rulers. issues of the character and private but by the press at large. We are left life. Hart claims that no emphasis is Despite the Framers' diligence in con­morality which have, in fact, been dis­to draw our own conclusions. In doing necessary -and that we cannot expect structing a constitutional government 
cussed at great length in the press. so, we must ask some serious questions our leaders to be saints. To disqualify where power could not corrupt leaders, What is at stake in this debate is how about the affair in particular and about any candidate for committing adultery the history of the American system tells we are to choose the next president of the state of politics in general. If Hart is obviously foolish. But to completely us that people, not laws, are ultimately 
the United States. had been more careful during his ignore a pattern of immoral activity is responsible to insure the well-being of weekend rendezvous, would he be a bet­also unwise. Were Nixon's flaws con­the state. 
Chris Devron ter person? Perhaps. Good judgment, fined to the public sphere? Most likely Hart's ideas offer nothing new or en­after all, is a quality we should demand not. And we know that Lincoln's virtues lightening, so I do not reject him on the of our leaders. Good judgment, were demonstrated beyond his private basis of ethics alone. I also take intoguest column however, has little to do with Gary life. Hart's recent admission that his account his erroneous view that our Hart's real problem. More important campaign accepted illegal donations leaders can live two unconnected lives; Hart claims he reentered the race be­to the debate is the issue of adultery proves a serious breach of personal et­one private, the other public. Should cause he mistakenly allowed himself to itself. If we are good Christians, we hics can often indicate a general dis­Gary Hart be the next democratic be forced out by the press before the should forgive Hart, and he is right to regard for ethics altogether. nominee for the president of the United 
voters could decide his fate for them­make that request. But should we vote Moral behavior, then, must be ac­States? The fact is that he is no more selves. He apologized for his lack of for him? counted for in any comparison of can­qualified to hold the office of president judgment and even confessed that he Hart's claim that private and public didates. than Jim Bakker is qualified to serve had been unfaithful to his wife in the morality have ·little to do with each as a minister. past. Hart demands that the press now other is patently false. It is impossible When we elect a president we elect a 
focus on his ideas and positions on the to separate a person along those lines. man or woman -not a series of positions Chris Devron is a junior government issues. If elected, he stated, he would Adultery violates a bond which our papers. Gary Hart is wrong to believe and philosophy major. 
not be the first president to be an adul­community and our God consecrate as terer, only the first to have publicly sacred. It objectifies men and women confessed that sin. and degrades sex. As the truism goes, Hart argued that private morality actions speak louder than words. Hart's 
P.O. Box Q
has little to do with public morality. actions tell us a great deal about how Some of our best presidents demon­he views women, and the values of this strated a disregard for personal ethics. society. months of pregnancy. He asked that we not dismiss him be­Does Hart's indiscretion have anyth­How you can help Every 21 seconds a baby is aborted. cause he sinned. Columnists write that ing to do with how he will govern? As The Supreme c'ourt has denied the fa­Hart's ethics are not at issue. Accor­the presidency of Abraham Lincoln stop abortions ther the right to protect his child from ding to Gail Sheehy, Hart's problem is proves, personal ethics must be a con­abortion. "recklessness." He suffers not for his sideration in the process of whom we Dear Editor: In over 18 U.S. cities in 1980 the number sin, but for a "lack of good judgment." choose to lead us. Here was a man who On Jan. 22, the fifteenth anniversary of abortions performed was greater The Gary and Donna story is damaging ordered a breach of the Constitution of the decision by the Supreme Court than the number of live births. only because it occurred so openly, as based on the personal and moral con­to legalize abortion, 46 students from Ninety-eight percent of all abortions photographs taken aboard the "Monkey viction that slavery is wrong. We can Notre Dame and St. Mary's went to are done because the women "do not Business" indicate. Why should we also look to Richard Nixon who still Washington D.C. We went to march and wish to be pregnant at this particular trust a man, they ask, who made a claims his only mistake was "not speak out for those who cannot speak time." choice of such bad judgment to be destroying the tapes." Clearly Nixon, for themselves -the unborn. I would like leader of the free world? like Hart, was guilty of more than just to personally thank those who went to If you were unaware of the preceed­
The actions of the Miami Herald give bad judgment. the march for their commitment to the ing facts, how can you genuinely stand us reason to pause. But the ethics of Voters should compare Hart's. ac­Right To Life movement. I would also behind your position on the issue? responsible journalism can be dis­tions, ideas and positions with others like to address the college community Before taking any decisive stance, we cussed at another time. We now know in the race. Moral and intellectual about abortion. We must be conscious must become informed about the that Gary Hart, Democratic candidate virtues are, however, closely related. and informed about the issue because realities about abortion. If taking time for president of the United States, com­Hart's argument that Kennedy's passivity, misconceptions and ignor­to understand the issue to be informed mitted adultery and we know this, in philandering, if true, did not preclude ance of the entire nation have already and to discern the truth could save just part, because of Hart's own challenge him from greatness is convincing, but affected the destiny of 15 million babies one human being from imminent death, to the press. We had suspected for some needs to be placed in proper perspec­that have been aborted since 1973. I ask isn't it worth it? time that Hart was a womanizer, even tive. Kennedy was a powerful leader that you think about the issue. Kathleen Zassick while we lack evidence. If this affair -one who stood for a public morality that Did you know: Regina Hall 
was an isolated incident, its signifcance included equal 
Doonesbury 
BUT I {)10 MAKE 7H& JANUARY 1986 M&£77NG. I RtCAU. 7H/ffAN{) GeORG& 7TR/3NIJOIJSLY OB­
TH/3: U!HOL& 5CH&Irl& ... 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the adminiStration of e1ther 1nst1tution The News is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion of the matority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, leners and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. IS encouraged. 
civil rights for Abortion is legal for the entire nine January 25 1988 
... BIJT FROM TH& BACK OF THE. ROOM, A TINY, TINNY VOir:& KEPT 7-5-5AYING, 'Tn-t UPFOR 17.1 I~ UP !VR.. fT.I¥1 TR/W 7V 5&e WHO 
ITWAS, 8117H& KEPTCUTTING (}{JT, 
' am 
Garry Trudeau 
IS THIS HMM•. NO, THE. MAN? NO,H8WA5 50FT&!<.
I 

AROUN!? TH£EYES. 
~ 

Editorial Board 
r---------------~~~~~~ 
Quote of the Day 
"The good man is the man who, no matter how morally unworthy he has been, he is moving to be­come better." 
John Dewey 

Oper.ations Board 
Editor·in-Chief  . .  ... ..... ... . . . ... Kevin Becker  Business Manager ............................ John Oxrider  
Managing Editor . .  . . Mark Pankowski  Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen  
News Editor .... .  . ............. Chris Bednarski  Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark  
News Editor .... .  . ..................... J1m Riley  Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke  
Viewpoint Editor...  ... Chris Murphy  Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin  
Sports Editor  .  Denn~s  Corrigan  Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton  
Accent Editor ....  . .......  Michael Naughton  Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele  
Saint Mary's Editor . .  Sandy Cerimele  Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton  
Photo Editor ...  . Jim Carroll  

Founded November3, 1966 
----------------_____________________________________________________________________________. 
Accent 
page 6 
Peter Himmelman proves he matters with Gematria 
ANN SEIFERT Christmas break in Min­minds fight, fight for the neapolis, and he said that, world." 
W
accent writer during the recording session, This is appropriate, because at would you say if you he stayed up continuously for Himmelman himself, in refus­auld talk to the world?" three days and nights. As a ing to compromise his music, Back in 1979, Island Records .result, the album has a very is indeed a "rebel mind." The signed a virtually unknown spontaneous, reckless tone and philosophy behind most of his group to a multi-album con­a quick pace. songs is, as he stated, "Do t,.act. This was quite adven­"Waning Moon" is the first what you want. Do what you t.uous for Island at the time, single and could be called the believe in. Do what you feel. yet it turned out to be the right epitome of the energetic, Don't do what anyone else move. The group was U2. spark-filled rock music of Him­says." Now, Island is again pushing melman. His music sounds like "Salt and Ashes" is one of another new artist. His name is an upbeat Robbie Robertson the slower cuts and is a very Peter Himmelman. He is won­during the fast tracks and like beautiful song, despite its sub­derful. I hope it doesn't take a simpler version of Roxy Music ject of destruction. By contrast, the world seven years to dis­during the ballads. But really, "I Feel Young Today," the first cover him. His latest release is this album is unique and diffi­cut, soars with joy. entitled Gematria and this LP cult to categorize. It is aimed The songs on this album and made my 1987 Top Ten Al­at thoughtful and appreciative on Himmelman's debut LP, throughout Gematria, an album bums of the Year list. listeners. Himmelman obvi­This Father's Day, are very per­which portends of truly great Gematria was recorded in ously has a lot of things to say sonal, and Himmelman com­things to come from Peter Him­three days in a basement here. mented on this. He thinks that melman. Here are some more studio in Minneapolis, the In "Fight For the World," the "if a song is really personal, lyrics from his song "Does It hometown of Himmelman. I chorus goes like this: "Rebel then it's also really universal." Matter": Does it matter that a talked with Himmelman over minds keep in time I say. Rebel These insights surface man has dierl. 
Broadcaster Criqui finds integrity at Notre Dame 
that's what they want me to think they have paid their dues. did the NIT and Notre Dame Industry, how Is the school say. That isn't the case on tele­They're experts because they played Army in a semi-final 
perceived? What do people say vision. were high level competitors. game. It was a national broad­about it? Have you ever gotten your­The important thing in your cast and there was some con­It's an elite school from a self into trouble because of broadcast is what's best for cern at CBS at the time: would competitive standpoint. I think that? Have people ever com· your audience. Be sides, un­I be biased toward Notre Parseghian said it best when he plained that you're too contro· less the former athletes are Dame? They got their answer retired and somebody asked versial? good as broadcasters, they because they got a lot of mail him what he was most proud Oh, you have people dis­don't last very long. The impor­from people saying I was of. He said, "We won and we. agree with you, and that's tant thing from my standpoint anti-Notre Dame and pro-Army. never cheated." Notre Dame good. The one thing you don't is to make sure that the mix is has a reputation of winning want is to be factually incor­good. I set up the athlete so he and not cheating, of graduating rect. can express himself, and ask its athletes in regular curricu­
Notre Dame has a 
E
What are your favorite and questions to bring him out. lum. In other words, they're ditor's note: Don Criqui, least favorite parts of what you The whole blend of play-by-play reputation of winning somehow able to balance the Notre Dame alumnus and do? and analysis has to be good so impossible in this day and age: NBC sports broadcaster, dis­As far as a favorite, I guess I that the audience eJ1ioys it and and not cheating, of winning and maintaining their cusses his work and gives ad­just like the general doing what you bring the most to the graduating its athletes integrity in academic stand­vice to Notre Dame students in I do. As we say, if we didn't do broadcast. ards. Integrity is something the second part of a two-part this we'd have to get real jobs. Over the years, have you in regular curriculum. that's sorely lacking in a lot of interview. Don't like? I guess there are crossed paths with many Notre areas of collegiate sports. 
Do you cover more college certain travel things some­Dame graduates as well? I Last question. What is your sports or more pro? times. It can be difficult. The know you worked with Paul What is the most exciting advice to someone at Notre 
Professional, mostly National load can be very heavy. It goes Homing for awhile at CBS. event you've ever covered? Dame? What should they take Football League. I'll also be in streaks, like one week when Yes, I worked with Paul. And The most exciting things I've out of it? What can prepare very involved in the Summer I had to do a game in Califor­Tim Ryan, who hired me for been to are my kids' games. them for this -for any -field? Olympics. nia on Sunday, speak at a big the student station, is now at That's where you get emotion­The best advice I would give 
What do you do during the dinner in Orlando on Monday CBS. I've also been on Phil ally involved. When you're anybody is that everybody has off-season? and be here early on Tuesday Donahue's show here at NBC. doing a big game, when you're something they want to do 
I'm on the air seven times a to do the radio stuff again. But There are a lot of people in the talking to millions of people, it more than anything else. But day here at WNBC(radio), and I every business has its time business around the country, requires a tremendous concen­most people -1 think the vast also do commentary on the perameters you have to deal and also a lot of guys in man­tration level. What I do is net­majority -end up accepting NBC radio network. I do a with. agement areas. work broadcasting where you're their second or third choice for number of commercials, and I think Notre Dame sends dealing with a vast audience. In whatever reason. My counsel I'm involved in outside busi­people to a variety of things. other words, in the Orange would be to pick whatever you nesses with two partners of Things go in trends a lot more Bowl for example, there are want to do most and pursue it mine who also went to Notre Integrity is something at certain schools than they do rabid Oklahoma fans who don't with all your might. The more Dame but are Involved in other that's sorely lacking in at Notre Dame. One year, 60 want to hear anything good motivated you are, the better areas. percent of the graduates of about Miami or anything nega­the chances that's what you're 
Is it common for a lot of areas of col­Yale applied to Wall Street in­tive about Oklahoma and vice going to end up doing. You're sportscasters to be Involved in vestment houses. I think Notre versa, so you really have to going to get your first choice.
legiate sports. 

both radio and television? Dame has a very broad ap­balance it. You have to be very The hardest part of any busi­
Yeah, I think so. In the old proach. You can do a lot of informed and to have a certain ness is the first job. And the days, everybody came into the I'd like to talk to you now different things. chemistry with the overall audi· other thing, don't be afraid to business through radio. Now a about some of the people What is It like for you to call ence that they find acceptable. accept a challenge. I think a lot lot of people start out in televi­you've worked with. What is it a Notre Dame game? Do you A lot of broadcasters can't of people I knew at Notre sion as reporters or writers, but like working with people who find yourself leaning toward reach that level. They're good Dame wouldn't. You never fail. radio's still a very forceful are ex-athletes, like Ahmad one side? on a local level, but when it All you do is succeed in other media. Rashad, Sonny Jurgenson and No, not really. I mean, I like comes to do it. on a network ways if you take a chance. You 
Do you prefer one over the now Bob Trumpy? Are most to see Notre Dame do well but basis, they're missing some have to be willing to go for other? color commentators former what we root for more than thing. You have to know the your first choice and to take 
Not really. I like the whole players? anything else when we're doing audiences. They differ widely chances. The greatest thing mix. See, on television you're Virtually every analyst I work a game is a close game that from place to place. An audi­you can ever trust is your own kind of structured. The game is with is an ex-athlete or maybe holds an audience. Blow-outs ence in Indianapolis is a lot intuition. You come out of the thing. On radio it's what a coach. A lot of people don't are hard to do because it's different than an audience in there educated and you come you have to say. On this radio always get along with ex­hard to hold audiences. Close New York. out of there with integrity and station, I'm paid to say what I athletes. Many resent them games take care of themselves. Looking at Notre Dame now that's all you need. Your think no matter how controver­coming into the business with­One vivid memory is of the from the point of view of greatest ally really is yourself. sial. Whatever I want to say, out paying their dues but I first full network game I did. I someone who's In the sports You have to trust that. 



VVednesday, Janua~ 27, 1988 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The Sailing Club has elected its new The Racquetball Club will be organizing 
officers, and will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 spring leagues. Please call Dave (1425) or Mark 
p.m. in room 204 0' Shaughnessy. -The Obser­0422) before Friday, Jan. 29, to sign up. All ver levels of players are welcome. -The Observer 
An advanced conditioning class will be A Gymnastics Invitational will be held offered to all students from Feb. 1 to March 12. at SMC Saturday, Jan. 30, at 1 p.m. Practice The sessions will be on Monday, Tuesday, for club members is mandatory for the week. Thursday and Friday afternoons from 5-6 p.m. Monday's practice is at 4:30 p.m., Tuesday in the Loftus Sports Facility. A physical ex­through Friday practices are from 4-6 p.m. -The amination is recommended. -The Observer Observer 
~ean Munster and Pete Gegen will be
The women'slacrosse team needs more 
domg the play-by-play for tonight's men's bas­players. All levels of experience are welcome. 
ketball game vs. Butler on WVFI. The radioCall Heidi (3778) for more information. -The show gets underway at 7:00. -The Observer 
Observer 
Sports Brie~s a~e accepted in writing 
e . Sunday through Fnday m The Observer offices 
R 
e1erees are needed for. SMC m~ramural on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center basketball. Call5548 for more mformatlon. -The before 3 p m on the d · t bl' t'
Observer . . ay pnor o pu ICa IOn. 
-The Observer 

West All-Star reserves named 
page 7 

Redskins look for ways to stopEiway 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -"When I get to my man," said Dexter Manley, Washington's voluble defen­sive end, "I like to smash him right between the numbers." 
"What happens if he only has one number?" Manley was asked. 
"Ah hah," he replied, "you know something." 
As the Super Bowl buildup began in earnest Tuesday, the man with one number, Denver Bronco No.7, John Elway, was the overriding topic of con­versation. 
Could the blond Superman in the orange cape lift the Broncos to a Super Bowl victory over the final obstacle to glory they failed to scale last season? 
Could the Washington Redskins win for the second qualified it by saying "we can't stop him, but we have to con­tain him." 
Nonetheless, they noted that a contest between teams as closely matched as these could turn on a play in which Elway isn't involved, such as the one made by Jeremiah Castille. The Denver cornerback got the Broncos here by stripping Cleveland's Earnest Byner of the ball just as the Browns ful­lback was about to score the tying touchdown in the final minute of the AFC champion­ship game. 
"A game can be decided by just one play, one turnover, one break," Gibbs said. 
"We have some guys who may get on the field for just three or four plays. One of those plays could be the one 
Associated Press forwards Mark Aguirre of Dal­starters are center Akeem time this decade by suceeding that turns the game." 
las, Xavier McDaniel of Seattle Olajuwon of Houston, forwards at their single mission: stop­And Redskins linebacker 
NEW YORK -Kareem Abdul­and James Worthy of the Alex English of Denver and ping him by hitting him right Monte Coleman noted that El­J abbar of the Los Angeles Lakers. Karl Malone of utah, and between the numbers -er, num­way, a throwback to the old Lakers and six other players The reserves were selected guards Magic Johnson and ber? triple threat, is really a quad­were named to the Western by Western Conference Lafayette Lever of Denver. At the first few interview ses­ruple threat. He can run, Conference team as reserves coaches. The starters, who The Eastern Conference sions roughly two-thirds of the throw, even punt -and if he does for next month's NBA All-Star were announced last week, starters are center Moses questions to members of both none of those, just causing Game, the league announced were chosen by the fans. Malone of Washington, for­teams contained the word "El­defenders to think about it is Tuesday. Jabbar, the NBA's all-time wards Larry Bird of Boston and way." danger in its own right. 
Other Western reserves for leading scorer, will be making Dominique Wilkins of Atlanta, Elway and coaches Joe Gibbs "If we pay too much atten­the Feb. 7 game in Chicago will a record 17th All-Star appear­and guards Michael Jordan of of Washington and Dan Reeves tion to him, somebody else will be center Steve Johnson of ance. Wilt Chamberlain, Bob Chicago and lsiah Thomas of of Denyer, for example, were hurt us," Coleman said. "We Portland, guards Clyde Drex­Cousy and John Havlicek each Detroit. asked if the game will go as can all be looking at us and they ler of Portland and Alvin played in 13 All-Star Games. The Eastern reserves will be Elway goes. Both, of course, can use their running game to Robertson of San Antonio, and The Western Conference announced Wednesday. said no, although Gibbs shoot right by us." 
Tile a....Notre o.m.office, located on the third floor of l.aFoftune Stu­dint c.nter, ..:cepta claalfted .....u•nu from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttwuug11 Frtdey. n. a....Selnt ~office, locat.d on the third floor of ~Collge Cent.-, 8CC8J1t8 clualllecb from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfOugtl Frtdey. DMdllne for next-dey clualfledala 3 p.m. All claulfleda must
Classifieds be pnlpllld, either In perwon Of by mall. The chwge Ia 10 cents per five c:twrw:t.rw p.-day. 
NOTICES  FOUND (1125) Gold ring In Madeleva­room 224. Call -4284  WAITRESSE&WAITERS NEEDED­FRANCESCO E FAMIGLIA, Italian Res­taurant. Must have own transpo.  DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA  The legend continuesll Andy Braun for UMOCII  CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII CLUB DANKISIII  
LOST:  GOLD  ID BRACELET.  CALL  CaiVApply within after 4pm (256-1444).  SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA·ROUND  Notre  Dame  Swimming  BEAT  THE  Where the party never enda.  
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2n4 NIGHT;  BERNADETTE 283-2795.  TRIP,7 NIGHTS FROM $199  BONNIES BEAT THE BONNIES BEAT  
2n-1051 DAY.  I really NEED a ride to I.UAlloomington  CALL CHRIS 3382 NOW!  THE BONNIES Plug, Kenny B., Psycho,  ELIZABETH,  
FOUND: GLASSES IN BLUE CASE BE·  this weekend! Will pay expenses¢. Call  Fox, Downtown, Cue Tip, Bill the Cat,  Hope you're enjoying your new DORM  
EXPERT  TYPING  SERVICE.  CALL  TWEEN ART & COMMERCE BLDG.  Paul at £1688.  ................................................................  Touchdown, Fro, Ajax, Sprout, Trillo,  Ute. Brian, Crelg, Andy & Mike ..y  
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NOTICE Save S on books Buy used books at Pandoras. BOB Howard (1 block  CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFOR­TUNE. LOST: A brown cashmere scarf, last Fnday at Snite 7:30 film. Call Mike £1537 LOST: A silver chain and cross in the  WANTED: HOCKEY PLAYER WITH GOOD FUNDAMENTALS TO TEACH SAME TO OLD ROOKIE. WILL PAY WELL. CALL AFTER 6 PM. GARY 272­7476. Wanted: A tutor for high school chemistry  SHE"S GOT BETTY DAVIS EYESII!!! KEENAN REVUE KEENAN REVUE The first name in campus entertainment is coming January 28,29,30. THE KEENAN REVUE IS COMINGIIIJIIJI  Tiny, Duke, Swan, Spuds, Rich the HLB, Steady Eddie, Noodles, George Micheal Adam, Billy Jack, George Lovlt, Hey Rog Scully, Haas, Pokey, Buddha, Lederick, e, Tompenn, Feldman, Wege, Spike, Johnny K, Rolandrolandroland, Babar, Crazy. OH GIVE ME HAPPIII  "HI." We ell mlaa you ..apeclally MEl I'll -you soon (not soon enough). Love, Tom VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that ape­ 
off ND Ave) Open daily 10-5:30  AAC P.I.T. on Jan. 21. II lound please contact Chris at x1175. Thanks.  student. Once a week on campus. Call Linda Sumner if interested £239-5819  Go Back to Sleepll  clef guy the beat gill of ell -tyourull -In a Glamour Portrait by Joe Ringer.  
WORDPROCESSING-TYPING  Female looking for roommates to move  RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING  Call for details end free brochure. 287­ 
272-111127  
 off campus. Call Tina 4311.  SUN 31, 7:30 LaFortune Theatre  0813.  
TYPING SERVICE 2511-2334 TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949  ~-R)_R_R_Em__~ll~__FO_R_S_A_LE~ FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288­For Sale, Smith Corona Typerwriter Call 095&' 255-3684 Don 271-0653  To my buddies I'm OK. I watched my show They feed me and comb my hair Love, All  ALL WELCOME! JIM"INDIAN GIVER'WINKLER HOW CRUEL YOU WERE TO HAVE TAKEN OUR PRECIOUS FLAG AWAYII  Your Attention PINM Hell has a new phone system 233 Inc. apologizes for any lnconvenl­ence •  
·····.  . ...........................................  DID  YOU  NOT  REALIZE  THE  SIG­ JLR: Thanks  for the earrings -they're  
SEND YOUR VALENTINE SOME HAND·DIPPED CHOCOLATES DELIVERED TO YOUR DESIRED  Apartment in ND Apts. Looking for female to share expenses with 3 others until May. Call Cathi at 3n3.  PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELL­ING IRISH PAINTER CAPS BADIN  Have A Coke And A Smile ································································  NIFICANCE OF THOSE FLAPPING BRIEFS?! THEY SYMBOLIZED THE AWE AND AMAZEMENT WITH WHICH WE LOOK  beautiful ¢ I love them (really!) Don't worry about space, I'll give you so much you'll feel like you're in the Mozambique desert; but remember what happens to  
DORM CALL 287·6073 FOR DETAILS. l LOST/FOUND I LOST· A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT·  HOUSE FOR RENT, AVAILABLE IM­MEDIATELY, NEAR CAMPUS. 2BEDR, 2 BATH. 272-6306 WANTED  HALL IS SELLING IRISH PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS Racy Lange ZR Ski Boots size 11 --$125. Call 283-3458 or 288-3453. 1971 Mustang. Fully restored. 351 Cleveland. Automatic, AMFM cassette,  THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB PAINTER CAPS •••••••••••• PAINTER CAPS •••••••••••• BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS..BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS... TO BUY YOUR PAINTER CAPS, STOP BY 403 BADIN OR CAll 2728 •••••••••••• PAINTER CAPS  UPON YOUR INCREDIBLE NOSEIIIIIII PLEASE RELIEVE US OF THE MISERY OF ANOTHER FLAGLESS DAYIII """"""PEBBLE BEACH"""""" WITCHBOARDIIfff WITCHBOARDIIIIII  people In the desert ... they hallucinate. Hope you feel better soon. SP Apartment for rent at Campus View! For info call Dianna at 283-2676 ..................................................... To Sean and Craig Who says chivalry is dead? Your muscles were awesome!  
lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY  HIRING I Govamment)oba ·your area. $15,00Q-$68,000. Call (602) 838-8685, Ext. 8282.  2-dr. hdtp. Luxury car. Call 586-2482 after 5 pm.  RENEE I wish you weren't in Chicago. I'm really going to miss you. Come Back Soon. "Honestly" STEVE  WITCHBOARDIIIII HOW DO WE KNOW IF trS DAVIDIII  THANKS I The women in distress If you have 1 or 2 llx for the Keenan Revue Fri. or Set. and want to trade for  
TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I REALLY NEEOIIII LOST PEARL RING. SET IN GOLD--lost the Friday before Break In the vincinity of the Circle and Alumni Hall. If found call 284-414!. RING IS OF EXTREME .SENTIMENTAL VALUE AND A REWARD IS OFFERED. LOST: GREY AND YELLOW OBER­MEYER SKI JACKET CONTAINING BROWN WALLET IF FOUND CALL  CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL· LEY FOR APPLICATION (818) 244­5835. SUMMER JOB INTERVIEWS: Average earnings $3,100. Gain valuable expert· ence in advertising, sales, and public re­lations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame Telephone Directory. Trevel Opportunltlea. Expense paid trelnlng program In Chapel Hill, NC.  TICKETS INXXS INXXS need 2 tix for chi town or any area show .plz call 2n-84 75.aft.8pm.thanx . NEED KEENAN REVUE TICKETS?? I have 2 for Saturday night and would like to trade for 2 Thursday night tickets. Call Robin at 2808.  Caffeine Free Diet Coke and Diet Coke have Nutrasweet. Does Milk? A hal? Doesn't bother me. Of course, I can't run my fingers through your hair. Maybe we should take dancing lessons or something.  This Bud is for those who appreciate a late game of basketball and don't wake up their room­mates. Marion (aka UNOME), You looked great in your red dress at your SYR last Sat.! was wondering lhat,um,l dunno,maybe you'd be interested In meeting someone (like me). ----INOU  Thur: call Cathy 3822 Handcuffs M&M Around the entire globe? Maybe after the basketball game. JAZ2. CLASSES .... JAZ2. CLASSES AT THEODORE'S SUNDAYS 7-8 8-9p.m. $6 REMAINDER OF THE MONTH(2 CLASSES)  
TRENT AT 1462 ELVIS TAPE FOUND ON FRI. OUTSIDE SO. DINING HALL. CALL 232-4907 TO CLAIM THE KING'S TUNES.  Looking lor enthusiastic, goal­oriented atudenta lor chellenglng, well-paying summer Job. Sign up lor lntervl-• with University Directories at Career & Placement Services,  PERSONALS  NEED KEENAN REVUE TICKETS?? I have 2 for Saturday night and would like to trade for two Thursday night tick­ets. Call Robin at 2808.  Annette "snap in front" Rowland: Please give us the flag you flew but not in public. Or was it two nags? or parachutes?  STUDENT ART FORUM MEETING THURS 5PM O'SHAG GALLERY AT SNITE MEMBERS: BRING T-SHIRTS AND $$  
LOST ITALIAN GOLD NECKLACE SOMETIME SATURDAY ON NORTH QUAD OR THE ACC .PLEASE CALL AMY AT 2948 IF FOUND!  Lower Level Heaburgh Ubrary by Jan­uary 29. Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­ CPA ... CPA... CPA... CPA... CPA... CPA ... CPA... CPA ... It's on its way ...  To the girl In the bookstore Mon. 2:35 wearing yellow jacket: guy in brown over­coal would like to meet you! Call Bob 2007  To Mrs. L; Happy 21st to the most wonderful sis in the worldl Have an awesome dayllll Remember...NO  ......................................... YO Jl YO Jl CHECK THIS OUT ... HAPPY B-DAY TO CHUCKlE N. LOVE KATH­LEEN AND TIFFANEY  
............. . ......................... LOST: FRIDAY NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR One long charcoal grey overcoat  tionalist Call 1108 evenings.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  ANYON~ going to (or passing through) YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO this weekend?? I need a ride and will share expenses.  COOING I (That's right, not even on your birthday!) Love, Bert  DESPERATE FOR A RIDE 2 BALL STATE THIS FRI. WILL SHARE $­CALL LIZ £4-5282  
was picked up from the coat room at Senior Bar on Friday nite Please return to Kevin at 343 Dillon Hall or call X3609. I'm even offering a reward. No questions asked. I really need the coat since H Ia the only one I own. I'M FREEZINGIII HELPIII LOST· NO womBJl's class nng. If found please call 283-1383.  RIDE NEEDED TO ILYBLOOMINGTON 1·29 CALL PETE 4340 Female roommate needed for 1968-89. House on Hammond Place. For more details, call 283-4510 at any time. NEED RIDE TO PITI THIS WEEKEEND CALL JOE X3883  Sell old texts for $$$. Pandoras -808 Howard (1 block off ND Ave). Open daily 10-5:30. Also save $on used books. To the SHORT guy I always see in C-line of North DH, I think you are adorablell Are you taken??  Call X1265 LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS is late night fun at the JACC. BE THERE. Friday night starting at 9 pm. It's not love. That's just an illusion. Let's call Ha modified temporary anti-bordom arrangement.  Happy 19th Birthday, Cathylll Love Dorothy, There.., Ann end Joy Need 3 Thurs. Keenan Review Tix -will trade 3 Sal. tix for them I Call £2494  3,420 ON FEB. 2, IT GOES DOWN. WHAT'S IT MEAN ? BE AT THE JOCE CENTER THAT NIGHT AND FIND OUT All's got more personality than you do, you schlep  

--------~-------------~~~-~~·----~~ 
a e 8 The Observer January , 1988 
Sports Wednesday 
Sports Lists 
HEAD COQNT SPORTS 

based on number of athletes receiving any scholarship money 
Actual Number NCAA Limit 
Men's Basketball 13 15 Women's Basketball 12 15 Football 93 95 Volleyball 12 12 
NON-REVENGE SPORTSt 

based on total full scholarships, which may be broken down into partial scholarships. 
Sport '87-'88 '88-'89 
Baseball 4 4 Men's CC/Track 10 10 Men's Fencing 1 1 Women's Fencing 1 1 Men's Golf 1 1 Women's Golf * 0 Hockey 0 2.5 Men's Soccer 0 2 Women's Soccer * 2 Softball * 2 Men's Tennis 2.5 up to 5 Women's Tennis 2.5 up to 5 Wrestling 11 11 

* club status t varsity sports not offering scholarships are not listed. 
lnterhall Basketball 

MEN'S 'B' LEAGUE  
Pac 10 Conference  
MEN'S 'A' LEAGUE  w L  Pc1.  GB  
Big 10 Conference  Off Campus 4 0  1.000  
w L  Pc1.  GB  Grace B1 4 1  .800  .5  
Stanford A2  4 0  1.000  Flenner B1 2 1  .667  1.5  
Alumni A2  3 1  .750  1  Stanford B1 1 1  .500  2  
Holy Cross A  3 1  .750  1  The 69ers O.C. 3  .250  3  
Pangborn  2 1  .667  1.5  Zahm B 1 3  .250  3  
Off Campus  1 2  .333  2.5  Carroll B 0 3  .000  3.5  
Fisher A  1 3  .250  3  Major Independents  
Dillon A1  0 3  .000  3.5  Holy Cross B 3. 1  .750  
OC Beerball  0 3  .000  3.5  Madison Ave. OC 3 1  .750  
Dillon B2 2 1  .667  .5  
Big Sky Conference  Flenner 83 2 1  .667  .5  
w L  Pc1.  GB  Grace B3 2 3  .400  1.5  
Stanford A1  4 0  1.000  Stanford B2 1 3  .250  2  
Grace A1  3 1  .750  1  Keenan B2 0 3  .000  2.5  
Off Campus  3 1  .750  1  ECAC Conference  
Cavanaugh  2 2  .sao  2  Sorin B 4 0  1.000  
Keenan A  2 2  .sao  2  OC Whitesnakes 3 1  .750  1  
St. Ed's A  1 3  .250  3  Alumni B2 2 2  .sao  2  
Flanner A1  0 3  .000  3.5  Grace B2 2 2  .sao  2  
Zahm A  0 3  .000  3.5  Keenan B1 2 2  .500  2  
ACC Conference  St. Ed's B 2 3  .400  2.5  
w L  Pc1.  GB  Flanner B2 0 3  .000  3.5  
Morrissey  4 0  1.000  The Bricks OC 0 4  .000  4  
OC Thunder  4 0  1.000  SEC Conference  
Sarin A  3 1  .750  1  Dillon B1 4 0  1.000  
Alumni A1  2 2  .sao  2  Cavanaugh B 3 1  .750  1  
Grace A2 Dillon A2 Carroll A Flanner A2  2 2 1 3 0 4• 0 4  .500 .250 .000 .000  2 3 4 4  Alumni B 2 2 Pangborn B 1 1 OC Goats 1 2 Fisher B 1 3  .sao .sao .333 .250  2 2 2.5 3  
Morrissey B 0 3  .000  3.5  

Scoreboard Basketball Top 20 
Basketball ·Not(e Dame over Wisconsin, '~-8 
AP Top Twenty

Men Notre Dame over Chicago, 24-3 The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Notre Dame 67, Pennsylvania 48 Women Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­Notre Dame 80, Kansas 76 Notre Dame over Lawrence, 16-0 theses, this season's records and total points. Points 
Women Notre Dame over Minnesota, 14-2 based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized.
Notre Dame 88, Marquette 5r Notre Dame over Wisconsin, 12-4 
Notre Dame 57, Michigan State 55' Notre Dame over Purdue, 15-1 
1. Arizona (59) 18-1 1256

DePaul 80, Notre Dame 77 Wrestling 
2. Purdue (3) 17-1 1174Saint Mary's 52, Cedarville 49 Notre Dame 23, Michigan State 20 3. No. Carolina (1) 14-2 1018 Marion 69, Saint Mary's 59 Clarion 20, Notre Dame 19 4. Nev.-Las Vegas 17-1 961 5. Duke 12-2 936
Swimming 
6. Temple 14-1 890
Fencing 
Men 
7. Brigham Young 14-0 878
Men 
Notre Dame 155, Boston College 113 
8. Michigan 16-2 873
Notre Dame over Minnesota, 24-3 

Notre Dame 131, Providence 80 9. Kentucky 13-2 860
Notre Dame over Purdue, 25-2 

Women 10. Oklahoma 16-2 n3
Notre Dame over Lawrence, 25-2 

11. Pittsburgh 13-2 660 Notre Dame 152, Providence 98 
Boston College 142, Notre Dame 126 

12. Iowa State 16-3 378 Hockey 
13. Illinois 14-4 371
Tennis 
14. Florida 14-4 292
Notre Dame 6, No. Dakota St. 3 
Men 
15. Georgetown 12-4 283
Notre Dame 8, No. Dakota St. 4 
Notre Dame 9, Western Michigan 0 
16. Iowa 13~5 276 17. Syracuse 13-5 264 18. Texas~EI Paso 16-3 232 

19. Villanova 14-4 180 20. So. Mississippi 14~2 99 Also receiving votes: Bradley 93, Missouri 92, 
Sports Calender Women's lnterhall 
Today w L Pet. GB Pasquerilla West 4 0 1.000 
Wyoming 71, Kansas 55, St. John's 44, Boise State Men's Basketball vs. BUTLER 25, Auburn 22, Kansas St. 21, No. Carolina St. 19,
Lewis 2 1 .667 1.5 

SMC Swimming vs. CALVIN Rhode Island 16, Vanderbift 15, Notre Dame 14,
Lyons 2 1 .667 1.5 
Badin 2 2 .500 2 

New Mexico 11, Loyola (Calif.) 10. Arkansas 9.
Thursday 

Maryland 8, Evansville 7, DePaul 5, Ohio State 3, SMC Basketball vs. TRI-STATE Pasquerilla East 2 2 Richmond 3, Georgia Tech 3, Louisiana State 2,Breen-Phillips 2 2 .sao 2 
.500 2 Farley 1 2 .333 2.5 

Memphis State 2, So. Methodist 2, Virginia Tech 2,Friday Colorado St. 2, Louisville 1, Virginia Commonweatth 
Howard 1 2 .333 2.5 
1.

Hockey vs. KENT STATE Walsh 0 4 .0 4 
Fencing at Wayne State 
Women's Swimming at Illinois St. 
Irish Hockey 

Women's Tennis at Yale Quadrangular 
Saturday GP 
G A PTS PIM PPG SHG Hockey vs. KENT STATE _,,,,.,,.,,, '''''·''''·"•'•······• ,. 20 .,,,, 18 30 48 10 9 0 Fencing at Dearborn Meet 20 v 21 12 33 38 10 1 9 24 33 12 2 0
Women's Tennis at Yale Quadrangular .·..;,,,,"'''''''''''"'""'''''''''''"'"'·'·' 20 
12 17 29 16 4 0
~7; Tennis vs. NORTHERN ILLI--. Ke~·in··~.4ari<-«WIIZ, 8 • ~ri 
9 17 26 16 7 0 12 14 26 4 3 0
Men's Tennis vs. SOUTHERN ILLI-Matt Hanzel, LW ~~it''' 
7 17 24 28 1 0 
NOIS :~~~~~~~r)t: RW 21 9 12 21 2 3 0 
Wrestling at National Catholic Meet Robert Bilton, c .. 20 
8 9 17 8 0 2 
Men's Swimming vs. ST. BONAVEN-Robert Herber, RW di; :!0 7 9 16 30 1 2 TURE Lance Patten, 0 16 2 11 13 30 1 0 Women's Swimming vs. ST. Tom Smith, LW 19 4 5 9 18 0 Ci 
BONAVENTURE ·Chris Kleva, LW 4 3 4 7 0 0 0 Michael Leherr, 0 20 0 7 7 14 0 0
Track at Michigan and Northwestern 

3 4 7 2 0 0
SMC Swimming vs. U. OF CHICAGO 
:o~8~~~~~~RW ~~Y{ 2 5 7 0 0 0and KALAMAZOO 
Tom Fitzgerald, LW 15 3 4 7 2 0 0 Sunday Phil Shaffalo, RW iii 4 !Ii 2 2 4 4 0 0 An&j Slagg&rt, RW 1 1 3 0 3 4 1 0
Men's Basketball at Kentucky Chris Olsen, C 6 1 2 3 4 0 0 nm Caddo, o 21 .J 3 4 4 1 0

Tuesday 

Desmond Curran, 0 2 1 2 3 0 0 0 John Ghla, RW 1 1 2 3 0 0 0 Men's Basketball vs. MARYLAND Frank O'Brien, o 12 
1 4 12 0 0 Women's Swimming vs. E. MICHIGAN 
Roy Bemiss, o 2 3 24 0 0 Bruce Haikola, 0 21 0 3 3 23 0 0SMC Basketball at St. Francis 
0 2 2 0 0 0
~~=~~~dH!rj~~l®!'iiE~i?ll!!' 1~ () 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
lnterhall Hockey 
0 0 0 
o /;W@; o 
0 0 6 0 0

GOLD DIVISION W L T Pc1. 
Grace 3 0 223 365 310 43 5
0 1.000 1 .750
Dillon 1 0 123 203 422 21 3 Morrissey 
2 1 0 .667 Off-Campus 1 1
1 .500 St. Ed'&Holy Cross 1 1 
0 .500 '2 3 tfl'o-r T 
Keenan 

0 2 0 .000 
47 46 2 142
Flenner 0 3 0 .000 

27 26 0 eo

BLUE DIVISION W L T Pc1. 
Alumni 

3 0 0 1.000 Pangborn 2 1 0 .667 G GAA svs so Cavanaugh 
0 .500 68 M8 504 J!L:a~ 1 Sarin 1 0
1 .sao 10 4.33 50 .794 0
Stanford 1 1 0 .500 

1 3.00 8 .888 0
Fisher 

0 2 0 .000 
0 0.00 7 1.000 0
Zahm 

0 2 0 .000 

r-----------cHIMES~-~-~ ­
(
) 

THE SAINT MARY'S LITERARY MAGAZINE ( 
Copies
) IS NOW ACCEPTING:
POEMS SHORT 
sc
PLAYS 
) 
STORIES 

18187 State Road 23
kinko•s® 
271-0398

SUBMIT TO CHIMES, 303 MADELEVA HALL
----~ ---­
r-Ap{>iiCations-·Tors'fuJ5ENi'-uNTo1i-BoARn ____1 
f COMMISSIONER POSITIONS for 1988-89 school f t year f t are available in the Secretary's office, 2nd floor, f 
t Lafortune. t Applications are due on feb. 1 by 4:00 p.m. and aretf for the following positions:
t BOARD MANAGER MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSIONER ' ' CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSJONER IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSIONER t ' SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSIONER PUBLICITY COMMISSIONER t MOVIE COMMISSIONER CONTROLLER t 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSIONER BUSINESS AUDITOR__ l
t '
SERVICES COMMISSIONER 

t 
Stop by the SUB office or call 239-7757 [or more m[ormat1on -'-~'1 ', jj ' ' · · ~d'J (r1·~J ' 
There is a SUBstitution for boredom on this campus. This is your chance Jffg, , f ' to get lnvolvedl '-' ~l, "'o. f ' ~~~~~~~~---~~..-..-.~...-..--._~~._.. .......~~-~.._..~~~"! ""'~" 


VVednesday, Janua~ 27, 1988 
Stanford leads two IH divisions 
By CHRIS PAULISON 
Sports Writer 
With two-thirds of the regu­lar season complete in men's Interhall basketball, the pla~off picture is beginning to take shape. 
Four teams are currently vying for two playoff spots in the league's Big 10 division. Stanford A-2 stands atop this division as the only team with an unblemished record through four games. Captain Chris Perozek explained why the Studs hold a one game lead over Alumni A-2, Pangborn, and Holy Cross. 
"We rely on a balanced scoring attack fueled by swingman Gary Sass and point guard Ray Flannery. If we get continued good play from these two guys, I think we'll go places. Right now though, it is important to take one game at a time." 
Holy Cross, who dropped their second game of the season to the Studs, is definitely a team to watch in this Big 10 division. The Hogs are led by 
KILULEA OLDS NISSAN­'85 Buick Skylark 4 door Air Automatic stereo $4995 '83 AMC Alliance DL 4 door Automatic air stereo $3995 '83 AMC Eagle 4 wheel drive 2 door very clean .elr auto­matic stereo 6 cylinder $3895 '83 Ford LTD 4 door air au­tomatic stereo $4295 '72 Buick Centurion Conver­tible one owner 66,000 miles $1895 call Joe Sargent or Tim Berger 255-9644 
South Padre for 
Spring Break 
March 11-20 cost $346 

hotel accommodations at the luxurious Hilton Resort transportation by Motorcoach (trip must include 
transportation) 

free pool deck parties, etc. 
sign-ups held 

Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 27 
6:00 pm -9:00 pm at the Information Desk first floor LaFortune 
$100 deposit required at that time no lines before 5:00 pm 
Sponsored by SUB 

Call Jim 239-7757 
Steve Belles and Ken Boener, guards who score in double digits consistently. Captain Tim Woods, along with the rest of this Holy Cross team, anxiously anticipate a rematch with Stanford. Such a bout could occur only in post season play. 
Stanford A-1 continues its dominance in the Big Sky divi­sion, sporting a 4-0 record. Grace A-1(3-1) gained the upper-hand in the race for this division's second playoff invi­tation, with an eight-point vic­tory over Off-Campus Team Rich(3-1) Monday night. 
The ACC playoff hunt prom­ises to finish with a great deal of excitement. This division boasts three very tough teams: Off-Campus, Morrissey and Sorin. 
Last night Morrissey defeated Sorin by 11 points to secure the only perfect record in the ACC. 
The Thunder, winners by im­pressive margins in each of their four victories, have had little trouble victimizing their opponents.In Thunder's last victory, a Iaugher over Dillon A-1, Brian Koehr, a 6'6" senior center, chipped in 18 points. 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS IS JUST A BUNCH OF SILLY GAMES ... 
***** 
page 9 

Wayman Tisdale of the Indiana Pacers and the mate Alvin Robertson was named as a reserve San Antonio Spurs' Greg Anderson fight for a on the NBA's West All-Star team yesterday. loose ball earlier this season. Anderson's team-Details are on page 7. 
PW edges Lewis in IH hoops 
By JEFF HEILERT Sport's Writer 
And then there was one. Pasquerilla West became the lone unbeaten team in women's Interhall basketball by knock­ing off Lewis 39-36 on Sunday afternoon. 
PW (4-0) now holds a com­manding 1 l!2 game lead over both Lyons and Lewis at the midway point of the season. 
In a game full of streaks, it was actually PW who had to hold on at the end to secure the victory. 
With 53 seconds remaining, Lewis' Teresa Buliavac hit a pair of free throws to cap off a 14-3 run and cut the PW lead to two at 35-33. 
PW turned to its point guard Pandora Fecko to ice the vic­tory. Already 6-7 from the foul line, Fecko calmly sank two more and ended Lewis' hopes for a comeback. 
"Pandora is our floor leader out there," said PW coach Gary Sasse. "She is in control and really leads this team." 
PW used solid play from for­ward Francine Kelly, clearing the court for her to go one-on­one. Kelly responded with six first-half points and was the key to an 18-17 PW lead at the intermission. 
The turning point of the game was the third quarter. PW con­tinued to press full-court but with more success than in the first half. The press forced four turnovers from the Lewis' guards in a five minute stretch. Four free throws by Fecko, and 
... YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY 
*RIGHT.* 
BE THERE. FRIDAY NIGHT. 
9PM-4AM 

a jump shot at the buzzer by Heidi Hansan put an end to a 14-2 run by PW. 
Trailing 32-19 after three quarters, Lewis showed it had not given up. It held PW score­less for over six minutes. Meanwhile, Sue Lippa contrib­uted six straight points for Lewis, with four coming off of­fensive rebounds. Lewis closed to within two, before Fecko put the game away from the free throw line. 
Kelly finished with ten points on the day while Fecko was the game's leading scorer with 14. Sue Lippa and Teresa Buliavac led Lewis with ten points each. 
In other action, Pasquerilla East evened its record at 2-2 with a 41-35 victory over Howard, now 1-2. BreeD­Phillips also joined PE at 2-2 with a 29-24 win over the win­less Walsh (0-4). Badin picked up its second win of the year with the help of a Farley for­fiet. Badin moves to 2-2 while Farley falls to 1-2. 

'I1ie 'Roatf oftfie J{eart 's 'Desire 
directed by 

rr. 7ofm 'Dunne, cs.c. 
when 

'[c6ruary 12tfi-14tfi, 1988 
where 

Crowe's J{ouse, La/(e 'Jvficfiigan 
contact 

Otfice o(Campus ?.f:nistry 
sign-up deadline 
'[e6ruant 5tfi, 1988 
(N0PUS MINImY 
Un-oi-Dome 
NoiTIOome. lt4MH 
,_,e--u..,,.... 
....,_,,..ntU•I 


The Observer VVednesday, Janua~27, 1988 
Butler looks to upset Irish 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Butler Bulldogs are hoping to catch a giant sleeping as they invade the Joyce ACC for tonight's men's basketball matchup at 7:30. 
Notre Dame has the Butler contest sandwiched between some of the biggest games on its schedule. After last Satur­day's huge, come-from-behind win over Kansas, Irish Head Coach Digger Phelps is wary of either letting down after the victory or looking ahead to Kentucky, Maryland, and Duke -teams that have seen their share of time in the top 25 this season. 

anyone else. Look at Penn beating Lasalle, or Butler beating Iowa State. We cer­tainly won't take anyone for granted." 
In fact, Iowa State is the only ranked team that the 10-6 Bul­ldogs have faced this year, but they won the game 78-76 at Toledo, Ohio. Butler is among the top three teams in the na­tion in free-throw shooting, hit­ting an incredible 83 percent from the charity stripe. 
Far and away, Butler's best player is fifth-year senior forward-center Chad Tucker. Tucker became the Bulldogs' all-time leading scorer Monday night in an 85-76 loss to Evansville. The 6-7 Cloverdale, Indiana, native scored 30 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in the game. He has 2,026 career points, and is averaging 23.7 a game, leading the team. Tucker also pulls down an average of 6.6 rebounds per game. 
Tucker and 6-6 junior Darren Fowlkes provide most of the scoring punch for the Bulldogs. Fowlkes (16.9, 7.4) is the team's leading rebounder. 
John Karaffa (5.5, 2.6), a 6-5 freshman, fills the other for­ward spot and the backcourt consists of 6-4 junior Thad Matta (4.1, 2.0) and 6-1 fresh­man John Shoup (4.4, 1.3). 

"It has been a strange year.--------------­
in college basketball when you $50 
The Observer 1 Pat Kusek look at the scores every mor-I 
David Rivers leads the fast break against Kansas last Saturday. ning in the paper'" said Phelps. I 
Rivers and the Irish take on Butler tonight at the JACC. Pete Sklko "Nobody is invincible, and $50 Coupon for: 
G';~~; ~ "D~QS ..--S-U--P-E_R u_p_s_et--.ting I~~=:~;Ps::cera_n_y_on_e_i_s_ca_p_a_~_e_o_f 
stay atop IH hockey 
By TIM suLLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The coaches pinned up signs throughout the two dorms ad­
vertising the game. They made 
;~~u~~=:=~i~te~\he~~~~e~i 
women's dorms for fan sup­
po~~d in a heated batue be­tweenthetwogiantsofthelittle guys, in front of a large inter-
hall crowd, Alumni downed Cavanaugh to take sole posses­sion of first place in the Blue (Small Dorm) Division of men's Interhall hockey. 
The Dogs, now 3-0, scored a goal apiece in the first and second halves and counted on a strong defense to defeat the Cavemen 2-1. Sophomore Mike Flynn's second half goal proved to be the game winner. 
"We went out and played a 'position' defensive game," said Alumni coach Mike Brach. "Even when it was tied at halftime, I told the guys to just keep playing the defense, and the offense would come." 
Cavanaugh senior Grant Weidner and Dog freshman Terry Maguire scored the first half goals, as Alumni estab­lished itself as the pacesetter in the game. 
"They really took it to us," said Cavanaugh player-coach Hugh Wade. "I was amazed at the number of people that were there." 
Pangborn took a 3-1 decision over Sorin in the only other Blue Division game of the week. The Pangbornites, now 2-1, took sole possession of second place in the Divison with the victory. 
In the Gold (Large Dorm) Division, three teams are in the fight for the second playoff spot behind Grace. The Grace team, now 3-0, after a 7-1 shellacking of Keenan, appears to be set for at least a second place finish. 
The biggest Gold game of the week was the Dillon -0-C con­test. Dillon, undefeated enter­ing the game, jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead in tpe game, paced by two goals from Ken Boehm. 0-C, however made a strong comeback, and the game erried in a 5-5 deadlock. 
~~~ 

SUPER ~ SUNDAY!! 
Watch the super bowl on one of three big screens 
$2.00 includes drinks.pizza, chips, popcorn,' and build your own 
SUPER BOWL SUNDAE. 
open from 12:00 until after the game. 
11111111101 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
1111111111 

WOODSTOCK THE MOVIE 
featuring the Grateful Dead, Jimi Hendrix, Joan Baez, and many more. 
Playing Thursday night,9:30 at Theodore's free of charge. The movie starts at 9:30. 
D. J. 'sand dancing after the movie. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Ill 
t>i IMPORTS 
75~ RUM ._COKE 
T~., 
75¢. DRAFT 75t fUZZY NAVEL 
T~ -£...Uif/dt ,, 
OPEN NOON-2PtA 
11111111111 
1111111111 

I South Bend Turners I Ironwood at the Toll Rd. 
I*Bgamesessionstarting1 * Weeknights 1 0 pm • ? 
I
1 
II 
I I 
NOW I 
t 

I * $50 deposit required per 15 1 I member team (total fee·$350) J
J * t · 
Late en rleS accepted. I I THIS COUPON EXPIRES FEB. 13 I
ICall 277·0851 for mo_re informatiOIJ I Indiana's First Built I
550 

Indoor Soccer Arena I 
AEROSPACE EtiGINEERING GEORGIA INSTITUTl_ OF TECHNOLOGY 
Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D): 
Aerodynamics Aeroelasticity Combustion Computational Fluid Dynamics Computer-Aided Design Flight Mechanics &Controls Propulsion Rotary Wing Technology Structural Dynamics Structures -Composites 
RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS ~NO ONE-THIRD TO ONE-HAL TIME RESEARCH A~~iSlANTSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE 
Financial aid per calendar year: 
$8,000 -$13,500 plus tuition and fees 
ll graduate students will participate 
in research. 
For further information contact: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Grad~ate Coordinator School of Aerospace ::ngineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30:132 (404) 894-6046 Office hours: M-W 2-c:30 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 27, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Campus 
Wednesday 
12:10-1 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Spectroscopy of High-L Rydberg States of Helium and Hydrogen," by Professor Stephen Lundeen in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, "Molecular Spectroscopy Made Easier," by Eric Heller in Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 7 p.m.: SMC Department of Government Lecture, "Interpreting the Constitu­tion," by Daniel Manion, U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals, and Professor Sotirios Barber, ND, in Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's. 7 p.m.: SMC Swimming vs. Calvin College at the Rockne Memorial Gym. 7:30p.m.: Basketball vs. Butler in the Joyce ACC. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
BBQ Chicken  Philadelphia  Steak  Sand­ 
Broccoli Cheese Casserole  wich  
Seafood Cantonese  Baked Sweet & Sour Fish  

Devonshire Sandwich BPT Potato 
Deli Bar 


Comics 
Bloom County 
m !<NOW, 7H€ Fill? l?f&HT'5 lleU/NIN& /Nft.IJCNC£ OVcl? THt P~IIKNT ~tYI/N/15 /VI£ OfII fll'.fJf?!T£ M£TIIfflOR: 
Calvin and Hobbes 
SO WAAI ARt ~£ SUI'ro3ED mBE. OO\t-~G 1 
28 Fermented beverage 29 Revoke a 
legacy 30 Dose 32 Sets upright 33 Less 

expensive 35 Oahu city 39 Replete 44 Saltpeter 45 Wager 46 Chalcedony 47 Son of Isaac 48 Misplaces 50 Russ. city 51 Everything 52 Family 
member 53 Govt. org. 55 For 56 Supreme 
beings 58 Nerve cells 60 Feral 61 Bring Into 
harmony 62 Titled 63 Simpletons 
DOWN 1 Louvered 2 On the ­
(fleeing) 3 Duck genus 4 Scene of a 
trial 5 Appraisal 6 Cylindrical 7 Frail 
Berke Breathed 


Bill Watterson  
liQl\UNG! rt-1 1'{01 G0\1'\G TO DO 1\\\S 'tMOLt. 1\\11'\G 1'-\~SE.l~!  ~OU'D ~Sft..Bl~ GOt::Jr If 1\\.l. UP \~ ~OJ DID. LEIS GU Slf>.R1ED.  l'll BE 11-1£. M~~GEMENT, M1D '{0\J CAl'\ BE. 1\\t. \.ABOR. FIRS\, GET 9::lME B:n:5.  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Thrall 6 Drift 
11 Carpenter's 

tools 12 They snlggle 14 Noisy 15 Reverberate 17 Chapeau 18 -generls 19 Dutch 
commune 20 Correlative 21 -girl! 23 Void 25 Gumbo 26 Office worker 

~1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 01/27188All Rights Reserved 
8 Otherwise 
9 Recent: pref. 10 Intoxicated 11 Neb. river 13 Slept noisily 14 Gorge 16 Small drinks 22 Black cuckoo 24 Gratifies 25 Room In a 
harem 27 Happen 29 Roman patios 31 Exclamation 
of discovery 32 Matched 
collection 34 Fatherly 35 Work with 

dough 36 Passageways 37 Turin 42 Everlasting to 49 Care for 
native poets 52 Thailand 38 Romanian 43 Cyclades once 
money Island 54 Vehicle 40 Past 45 Supervised 57 Govt. org. 41 Game fish 48 Faithful 59 Race 
The Far Side Gary Larson 


"Nope, I can't do It either .... Dusty! Can you make an '0' with your lips?" 
.. 



page 12 

Stevenson will sit out for two weeks 

By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame head basketball coach Digger Phelps suspended junior forward Mark Stevenson Tuesday for "disciplinary reasons and for using poor judgment." 
The suspension, which will last two weeks, follows Steven­son's arrest early Sunday mor­ning on charges of underage drinking. 
The arrest was Stevenson's second in two months. He is scheduled to appear in court Feb. 15 on the charge of a minor consuming alcohol, a Class C misdemeanor, and stands trial April 8 on a charge of criminal conversion, a Class A mis­demeanor. 
In a brief statement released Tuesday afternoon, Phelps said that Stevenson "will be 
Heidi Bunek (44) rejects a shot last night against permitted to practice with the Marquette. Bunek scored a Notre Dame-record 32 team during that period, but he 
will not dress for any games during the next two weeks." 
Stevenson will miss tonight's game against Butler, Sunday's game at Kentucky, the Feb. 2 home game against Maryland and the Feb. 7 game at Duke. 
The first game he will be el­igible for is Feb. 10 at home against Fordham. The 6-6 swingman had been averaging 
12.4 points and 4.0 rebounds in 12 games as a starter for the 11-4 Irish. 
Stevenson was arrested Sun­day morning at approximately 
2:30 when a St. Joseph County police officer noticed the car Stevenson was driving pulling into North Village Mall at a speed too high for the night's icy conditions. 
A second officer stopped Stevenson, and a blood alcohol test showed Stevenson to be just under the legal limit. 
Stevenson was released on a $100 cash bond. 

Bunek sets scoring record as Irish rout Warriors, 88-51 
By THERESA KELLY "I thought Heidi played Sports Writer well," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "She ex­She just blew them away. ploited the mismatch very well As the Notre Dame women's and I thought we did a good job 
basketball team pounded Mar-getting her the ball." quette 88-51, the only excite-Bunek downplayed the ment was whether forward scoring record, attributing the Heidi Bunek would break the win to the entire team. Irish single-game scoring "We needed to win this game record of 31 points. pretty bad," she said. "Tennes-
So much for last minute see's going to be in here next heroics. Bunek tossed in her Wednesday, and we need to 31st and 32nd points with eight earn some respect. We can get minutes left in the contest, respect by blowing some teams breaking the record held by out and playing our game. Trena Keys (vs Northern Illi-"Once our game comes, then nois, Dec. 15, 1985) and Shari we know we can win." Matvey (vs Chicago State, Jan With their record currently 11, 1980 and vs Mount St. at 12-5, the Irish game seems Joseph, two weeks later). to be coming. 
"I thought Heidi played Both teams started out slow well," said Irish head coach and sloppy, with Notre Dame Muffet McGraw, who picked up holding a small lead through­her 100th career win with the out most of the first half. The rout. · · Irish began clicking late in the half and were able to put to­gether an 18-point margin, 39­21, at the break. 

"We came out just a little bit complacent," said McGraw. "We got a little more intensity towards the end of the half. Our players were better. We needed that." 
With the score at 41-25 early in the second half, the Irish went on a 15-point run. The Warriors did not score for al­most five minutes, and the game was essentially over. All that remained was the record, and Bunek, with her last of many layups for the evening, retired to the bench with the game and the record in hand. For the game, Bunek shot 12 of 18 from the floor and 8 for 11 from the foul line. Coming into this week's action, she was ranked 13th in the nation in field goal percentage. 

"We knew we had the advan­tage," said Bunek. "With the perimeter shooting we have, that changes the defense and opens up the inside for us." 
Part of the reason for the second half surge was McGraw's halftime adjust­ment. The Irish went to the run­ning game, and the uptempo play was too much for the War­riors. 
Although the scoring was not as balanced as usual (Sandy Botham scored 14), the Irish rebounding could not have been more even. Bunek and Botham each pulled down seven, and teammates Lisa Kuhns, Sara Liebscher and Krissi Davis each totalled six. Throughout the game, the Irish used their height advantage to its fullest extent. 
"I thought our players were better," McGraw said. "We should've won, and we did." 
McGraw cleared the bench for most of the second half, and the substitutes held their own against the Warriors, just as the starters had. 
"That was a good time for the bench to play," she said. "They deserved it. They've been working hard for a long time, and we've had some close games lately and they haven't gotten in to play. I like to give them as much time as possi­ble." 
The victory was the 100th career win for McGraw, who has a 100-46· record after five seasons at Lehigh and this year at Notre Dame. The Irish will take on defending national champion Tennessee at home on Wednesday, a game that could earn the Irish some of that respect. 
Win over Jayhawks not enough for NCAA bid 
David Rivers wanted this one. 
When the senior captain turned to the crowd Sat­urday afternoon in a rare attempt to stir the Joyce ACC rowdies, he showed a national audience that he was ready to wake up the echoes -echoes of last year's conquering of North Carolina, echoes of a brilliant four-year career and echoes of the biblical David-slew-Goliath comparisons which inevitably would be written about this matchup between two legitimate Player of the Year candidates. 
Believe it or not, Kansas entered Saturday's game a six-point underdog. The Jayhawks were ranked 16th in the nation before Rivers canned 14-of-15 free throws to lead the Irish comeback.Notre Dame was not mentioned in last week's Top 20, not even among the teams "also receiving votes.'' 
Why were the Irish favored by six, then? Three reasons -David, Digger and the "Sixth Man" crowd 
Few college basketball players are having the kind of year David Rivers is. Though his supporting cast has been suspect at times, and he does not play for a Top 20 team, Rivers is as worthy a college Player of the Year candidate as anyone in the game. Twenty-four points, five assists and more rebounds per game than a 6-0 point guard probably ought to get have all added up to a do-it-all season and likely first-team all-America status. And Saturday when David's foul shots were as accurate as his namesake's slingshot, Rivers gunned down the Player of the Year favorite, Kansas' 6-10 center Danny Manning. 
Phelps and the vocal Joyce ACC partisans have also displayed their talents to national audiences in memorable upsets of highly-ranked opponents. Green carnations and split sutts may be the focus of television cameras, but few coaches are as adept as Phelps when it comes to preparing his team for a big game. 

Phelps himself has said that nobody leaves Notre Dame number-one, a tribute to the student body 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

faithful, but the Jayhawks couidn't even leave in the Top 20. 
As important as Rivers, Phelps and the crowd were, the rest of the Irish rose to the occasion in impressive fashion against the Jayhawks. Keith Robinson, Scott Paddock and Gary Voce packed it in to hold Manning, the same guy who poured in 40 against the Irish last season, to just 13 field-goal attempts. 
But despite the impressive win, there are flaws in Irish basketball which have become all-too­apparent and all-too-threatening to a bid with the NCAA Tournament. While the Kansas and Louis­ville wins showed the Irish can play with most anyone, the Lafayette loss showed they could lose to anybody, too. 
Notre Dame travels to Kentucky and Duke on consecutive Sabbaths and it will need a lot more than prayers from the faithful to conquer the ninth­ranked Wildcats and survive the fifth-ranked Blue Devils and their fans. Several bad habits will have to be shaken for the Irish to guarantee a return for a fourth straight appearance in the NCAAs. 
Robinson can't put the ball down in traffic, Pad­dock can't hack for three fouls in three seconds, Voce can't quietly coast and collect just three rebounds in a game (like he did against the Jayhawks), Rivers can't be asked to be a one-man­show every time, and Mark Stevenson can't chal­lenge the law like he challenges opposing forwards. 
While the sweet memory of Saturday's win is still fresh, so is the imposing challenges of the next two weeks -Kentucky, Maryland and Duke. Mark Stevenson's two-week suspension adds another ob­stacle for the Irish to climb, and it certainly could not have come at a more inopportune time. But Phelps' decision was the best one that could be made, regardless of Notre Dame's upcoming oppo­nents. 
Although the opening round of the Tournament is here at Notre Dame and the Irish should be there if they play up to Saturday's standard, the road which they must travel to get there is a lot longer than their daily walk over to the Joyce ACC. 



