
I • \ 
Waterlogged
IACCENT: Dining hall distractions 
Showers and thunderstorms Monday with locally heavy rainfall. High in the upper 
70s.

IVIEWPOINT: Attacks on "Last Temptation" I 

~----------------~====~~ 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1988VOL. XXII, NO. 20 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

1Naf':lphy ousted in !"'aiti; . Avnl declared president 
au-Prince Mayor Franck ticipating in the massacre. By Associated Press Romain. midday, the city was quiet, but The military government ap­the airport was closed. PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti­pealed in a national television Avril, who was adviser to Brig. Gen. Prosper Avril, a broadcast "for calm, discipline ousted President Jean-Claude former military adviser for the and order in respect of individ­said will
Duvalier, Haiti 
Duvalier dictatorship, ual rights and liberties." respect all international declared himself president on A witness told The Associ­
treaties, liberties and human Sunday after ousting Lt. Gen. ated Press she saw two bodies 
rights and said that "dialogueHenri Namphy. in the courtyard of Romain's will be honored for the sake of 
A yril, adjutant general of the , luxurious house in the suburb national reconciliation." army, said in an early morning of Delmas and the property 
Lubin said Jean-Claude Paul, address on national television was occupied by soldiers. 

commander of the 700-man 
that the Presidential Guard "The house was stripped, was
Dessalines Barracks,
toppled Namphy on Saturday doors were torn off the hinges. named commander-in-chief of because it was "sickened" by It was a shell," the witness 
the army, but Avril did not the way Namphy governed. said. 
mention Paul. Dessalines is the 
Namphy was sent to the neigh­Avril took over a week after most feared unit in the 7,000­boring Dominican Republic. about 20 men armed with mac­man army.
Residents reported hearing hetes, handguns and steel pikes Paul, who has been indicted heavy gunfire Saturday night attacked a church during a on federal drug trafficking near the presidential palace in Mass being said by the Rev. had been
charges in Miami,
what appeared to be fighting Jean Aristide, a vocal critic of considered the most powerfulbetween military factions. the military government. Thir­figure in Haiti after Namphy.Frantz Lubin, Haiti's direc­teen people were killed and 77 It was not known if Paul played 
tor of information, said soldiers wounded. Opposition leaders .-t role in the coup, but sources were killed, but Avril men­blamed Namphy's government said l'lamphy and Paul were at tioned no cas11alties. for the attack and another odds. 
Haiti radio stations reported church burning two days later. In Washington, State Depar­that at least six people were On Sunday morning, slum tment Spokeswoman Anita killed in the capital in coup­dwellers killed and burned the Stockman said noncommis­
related clashes, and that mobs body of one man and cheered sioned officers of the pillaged two homes owned by when a soldier shot and killed 
see HAITI, page 3

Namphy and the home of Port-another man of 
Military coup in Burma results in new regime and violent protests 
elections after 26 years of aut­goon or for all of Burma.
Associatt>d Press 
horitarian rule. But protest organizers per­
RANGOON, Burma--Armed The fate of Maung Maung suaded demonstrators to Forces Commander Saw was not known. There were no return home before the curfew Maung ousted the civilian pres­reports of casualties or arrests began. They were asked to ident on Sunday, and thousands but sporadic shooting was re­return to the streets Monday of people surged into the streets ported in the capital. for further unspecified actions. to demand democracy and Saw Maung, 59, immediately Shots were reported in Ran­protest the fourth change in the abolished key government in­goon and some people were government in two months. stitutions and slapped an 8 p.m. breaking the curfew, the U.S. 
Gen. Saw Maung said in a to 4 a.m. curfew on the capital, state Department in Washing­statement broadcast by state the country's largest city with ton said. "There are reports of Radio Rangoon that he over­2.5 million residents. Public barricades being put up by threw President Maung Maung gatherings were banned, but it to halt economic and social was not known whether the see BURMA, page 4 chaos and to hold democratic measures were only for Ran­
•
60 confirmed dead 1n Mexico 
Yucatan Peninsula resort a tropical storm late Friday. 
Associated Press 
areas of Cancun, Cozumel and · Gilbert's rains created a 10­MONTERREY, Mexico--Isla Mujeres before crossing foot-deep, 150-foot-wide torrent Workers searched on Sunday the Gulf of Mexico and hitting of muddy water by Saturday for the bodies of up to 200 people Mexico again in the northeast when the river roared through swept away when a river near Texas. Monterrey. By Sunday, it was poured over its banks and over­The storm killed at least 98 almost back to its normal size turned four buses. people while coursing the of 20 feet, allowing soldiers to Sixty people were confirmed Caribbean, including 29 in the use cranes to pull the crushed dead. Yucatan when it hit land last body of one intercity passenger 
The buses were caught in the Wednesday with winds of up to bus from the mud. path of the Santa Catarina 200 mph, 26 in Jamaica, 30 in "They hope to find bodies be--..~ River when a flash flood Haiti, five in the Dominican cause they don't know exactly ~··· spawned by Hurricane Gilbert Republic and eight in Hon­how many people were in the 
ripped a 40-mile-long path of duras. Two people were killed bus or how many were able to ....,.. .·•..,Vflllll' destruction Saturday through Saturday in Texas by tornados save themselves," said rescue 
The Observer 1 Trey Raymond 

northern Mexico's most pop­spawned by the storm. coordinator Lt. Col. Vicente To punt or not to punt ulated region. But it was in this capital of Gamez of the 7th Military Zone. 
Ben Mendoza, a sophomore from Flanner Hall, shares an intense momenf 
It was the epilogue to a week the state of Nuevo Leon where 

with other ND students who also went on the road trip to watch the Irish
of death and havoc caused by Gilbert exacted its highest Gamez said only two sur­
beat Michigan State on Saturday.
Gilbert, which ravaged the death toll after it weakened into vivors were located by Sunday. 

page 2 The Observer Monday, September 19, 1988 
IN BRIEF 
uennis K. Moore has joined the staff of the University as an assistant director of public relations and information. Moore's previous experience has included corporate public relations, marketing, and magazine writng and editing. For more than eight years he was a freelance writer and consultant specializing in corporate public information programs. From 1987 to 1988 Moore was creative director of Financial Marketing Corp., a Chicago based marketing and public relations agency serving clients in the financial services industry. -The Observer 
Sister Aquin O'Neill has been appointed visiting associate professor of theology and undergraduate coordinator of Notre Dame's Jerusalem Program in Tantur according to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of foreign study progams. O'Neill holds master's and doctoral degrees in moral theology from Vanderbilt University and has taught at Loyola College in Baltimore and at Salve Regina College in Newport, Rhode Island. -The Observer 
Comedienne Joan Rivers may be back on the 
air next year as host of a daytime television talk show. 
The former host of "The Late Show" and guest host of 
"The Tonight Sh!)w Starring Johnny Carson" is said to 
be working out a deal with Tribune Entertainment Co. 
for a 26-week cycle beginning in the fall of 1989. The 
show would serve as a counterpart to Tribune's 
"Geraldo."--Associated Press 


OF INTEREST 
The Undergraduate Schools Committee will hold a training session today for students who were unable to make previous sessions, at 7:00p.m. in the Admissions office. -The Observer 
SUB-Campus Entertainment will hold a brief meeting today at 9:00p.m. in the Sorin Room of the Lafortune Student Center. -The Observer 
GSU Women's Resource Committee organizational meeting will be held at 7:00 p.m. In the Sorln Room of the LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The Investment Club will meet at 7:00p.m. in 220 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
SUB will hold organizational committee meetings for those who signed up at Activities Night at the following times: Campus Entertainment, 9:00p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune; Services, 9:00p.m. in the SUB Office in LaFortune; Publicity, 8:15p.m. in the SUB Office; Cultural Arts, Friday Sept. 23 in the SUB Office. Applications for executive assistant to the board manager will also be taken. Call 239-7757 for more information. -The Observer 
SUB announces openings for positions of choreographer, stage manager, and musical director for the Feb. 22-25 production of Simon. Contact Rob Meffe at 283-3660 for more information. -The Observer 
Campus Bible Fellowship will hold a dinner at 5:45p.m. at 19525 Perdle Road (off Juniper) and a Bible study at 6:30p.m. Everyone is welcome, no cost. Call 277-8471 for more information. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Twelfth Night" will take place today and tomorrow at 7:00p.m. in Washington Hall. Actors, Musicians, Technicians, and Managers are needed. -The Observer 
1987-88 London Program Students get together with American faculty and residence staff at the Notre Dame Room in the LaFortune Student Center at 6:30. Special Guest will be Leanne Langley. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Typists .................. Diana Bradley Design Assistant .. .. .. . .. ... David Roth ............................................. Will Zamer Typesetter .. .. .. .. Jim Mercurio ND Day Editors.... . Diana Bradley News Editor............. .... Michelle Dall .................................... Jennifer Richards Copy Editor ................ . Christine Walsh SMC Day Editor .. . ........ Liz Lobb Sports Copy Editor........ Steve Megargee Photographer.. ... Trey Raymond Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Mike Truppa Ads Designers .................... Mindy Breen Accent Copy Editor ....... Robyn Simmons .............................................. Patti Kase Accent Design Editor .. ... Robert Sedlack .......................................... Megan Keane ............................................ Molly Killen 
Tile at.na-(USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriaa exam and vacation periods. Tile Onena-is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writi111TIIe Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Olleena-is a member of Tile Allodaled Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Summer jobs make school seem more appealing 
Now that we are settled in our classes, with 
tests and papers looming imminently before us, 
Lisa we should not be discouraged about spending Q'M II 
many hours pouring over books. Just recall that a ey mere weeks ago we were trapped in that -Assistant Viewpointdreaded summer job. Editor You might be thinking that it was not so bad. ----------------­
But we must keep in mind our tendency to put 
the past in a better light. 

Do you find yourself reminiscing about those 
carefree summer days, lying by the pool, com­
templating whether to play nine holes of golf 
or just drink in the rays? Well, stop. 
As I recall, those days were few and far be­
tween, and most of my energy was spent at my 
ulcer-promoting job. The terror which filled my 
days consisted of working as a phone clerk,· 
runner and trade checker in the stock index 
futures pit at the Chicago Mercantile Ex­
change. 

Two summers ago, when I first started 
working at the "Mere," the contrast between the isolated campus of Notre Dame and the harsh reality ofthe financial world became ap­parent. Many of us, I think, have realized how fortunate we are to have the leisure and the means to live at Notre Dame with our friends ~and peers, free to pursue our interests, be they 
intellectual, creative or social. 

I'm not saying that my job wasn't intellec­
tually stimulating. I learned many new and never hesitating to stop and socialize 
derogatory names, exclamations, and base, despite their tardiness. 
graphic jokes from the hardened men in the We have all had various summer jobs which 
pit. I also learned which traders had mafia con­we have detested. Some of the more unique jobs 
nections, (some of whose past histories would of my friends have ranged from pipetting urine 
make the best seller list) and which shady char-in a chemistry lab to mopping up radioactive 
acters to avoid. . waste in a nuclear facility tank. 
In a more serious light, I learned to be quick As we find ourselves inundated with assign­
and accurate with hand signals in a job where ments, we must remember accurately those of­
a few seconds can mean a few thousand dollars. ten idealized days of summer. 
Squeezing my way through sweaty, unyield­
ing bodies in the pit, I soon learned how to dodge Although we reap many benefits from our 
lunging, frantic traders J who occasionally summer jobs, such as learning a new field, 
stepped on my feet, jostled me in the ribs or making money, and meeting new people, the 
knocked off my glasses in their haste to make most important benefit is realizing that we are 
a trade. ready and willing to return to the bittersweet 
When we compare occasional late nights of smell of ethanol, the horrendous grind of finals 
studying to getting up at six every morning, and the culinary delights of the Dining Hall. the life of the student seems quite appealing. For while we can always skip a class to catch Mter surviving my summer exploits, I have up on some sleep, such habits would prove found that Notre Dame seems quite tranquil, devastating in a world where we can easily be even on home football weekends. In a few years,fired and replaced. most of us will have to enter the dreaded world 
As I walked to work every morning, I found of nine-to-five. myself surrounded by herds of men and women rushing to their destinations. Engulfed in a sea We wonder now, how working men and wo­of drab grey tweed, I recalled wistfully the care­men ever make it through the day without the free students .at school, meandering to class, prospect of an October break. 
Get Lttvolved in the World ofAdvertis~ng 
NOW 
Create &Promote multi-thousand dollar advertising campaigns 
We need volunteers in the following areas: 
copy writing creative Ideas/concepts ad design marketing promotional concepts artists video production ad layout internal organization and systems account executives Distribution Manager Production Manager and Assistants Publicity Commissoner (informal interview req'dl Publicity Assil. Commissioner (Interview) 

STUDENT UNION llOAI<.D 

Experienced and non-experienced positions available 
Organtzattonallteettog TON/6HT 8:15 S. U.B. Office 

----~-----~--~------~-~----------­
Monday, September 19, 1988 The Observer 
Notre Dame to host annual Industry Day on Sept. 21 
By KIM DRZEWIECKI News staff 
Representatives from 25 companies will make appear­ances at the annual Notre Dame Industry Day on Wed­nesday, Sept. 21 in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineeri­ng. 
Representatives will be on campus to answer questions students have about each com­pany and possible employment 
opportunities. Industry Day Fitzpatrick Hall, where stu-interested students to bring will begin at 11 a.m.. and is _co-dents may talk to the represen-copies of their resumes with sponsored by the Jomt Engme-tatives, and gather information them. 
ering Council ~nd the Society of Women Engmeers. 
Companies which will be represented in the seminar in-elude: Amoco Oil Co., Arthur Anderson & Co., AT&T Bell Laboratories, The Boeing Com­pany, Brooklyn Union Gas, 
Caterpill~r, Inc., . Delco Deborah Galler, Industry Day of the opportunities offered to Electromcs Corporation, De-co-chairperson. them at Industry Day. partment of Navy Naval The second part of Industry Avionics Center_., Dow Cor-Day will begin with a mixer at "Consider attending this ning, Dow Chemical USA, Ex-5 pm which will be held in the event. Your participa­xon Research & Engineering conc~urse of the Monogram tion will determine the success Co., Ford Car Prod~ct Devel-Room in the Joyce ACC. At a of this day--for Notre Dame and opment, General Mills, Inc., dinner following the mixer. stu-you." said Galler. 
''Idotit want 
alot of hype. I just want something I can count on.-J-J 

Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at acost that's a lot less than you think You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all ofyour calls will ~ through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network 
When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice-AT&T. 
Ifyoutllike to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222·0300. 

ATSaT 
The right choice. 
ICI Americas, Inc., IBM, In-dents will be given a further diana Bell, NCR, Procter & opportunity to meet company Gamble, Kurt Salmon As-representatives. sociates, Inc., Solomon Brot-Although Industry Day is hers, Tellabs, Vista Chemical sponsered by two engineering Co., Westvaco, and the Xerox organizations, the experience Corporation. is not limited to engineering 
Industry Day consists of two students, said Healy. She said main parts, according to that anyone interested in Jacque Healy, president of the gaining insight into any of the Joint Engineering Council. companies participating in In-
First, an industry fair will be dustry Day is encouraged to at­held from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in tend. the first-floor concourse of Healy says it is a good idea for 
about various companies. According to Healy, in the 
"Each firm participating past many people have secured will have a table from which to both summer and full-time em­distribute information con-ployment through the contacts cerning their company. This is made at this event. an excellent opportunity for Freshmen, sophomores and students to learn more about juniors, as well as seniors, are these companies," said encouraged to take advantage 
-----~ 
Left--right--left 
A small group of students in ROTC hold a Sunday afternoon drill on the Lyons basketball courts, despite the sporadic thundershowers. 




Haiti 
continued from page 1 
Presidential Guard captured 
Namphy in an apparently 
bloodless coup and persuaded 
Avril to take over. 
She said they were believed 

to be "dissatisfied with recent 
human rights violations and 
the general deterioration in the 
security situation punctuated 
by attacks against the 
churches over the past two 
weeks." 
Ms. Stockman said Avril 

phoned the U.S. ambassador 
and said he was assuming the 
presidency. She said the U.S. 
government still wants Paul to· 
answer the drug trafficking 
charges in court. 
Namphy arrived in a private 

plane at a private airport in 
Santo Domingo, the Dominican 
capital, early Sunday morning, 
said Fabio Herrera Cabral, 
dep\ltY foreign minister of the 
Dominican Republic, which 
shares the island of Hispaniola 
with Haiti. 
The Dominican Republic 

said Namphy and Port-au­
Prince Mayor Franck Romain 
were granted political asylum 
in its embassy in Port-au­
Prince. Details on the depar­
ture of Romain and 12 others 
still were being discussed, Her­
rera Cabral said. Romain was 
a colonel in the Presidential 
Guard and chief of police under 
Duvalier. 
Avril reported Namphy's ouster at about 2:30 a.m., several hours after shooting broke out at the main plaza in front of the presidential palace. The gunshots sent dozens of people fleeing for cover. 
Sources who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity said the fighting involved army fac­tions and members of the Tonton Macoutes, the dreaded agents that terrorized Haitians during the 29-year dictator­ships of the Duvalier family. Details were not known. 
In his speech to members of the Presidential Guard at the palace, Avril declared himself president and promoted him­self to lieutenant general. 
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 19, 1988 


Panel considers Gary for airport site 
Associated Press GARY, Ind.--Indiana offi­cials, battling to have Gary designated the site for a new Chicago-area airport, say they have reached an agreement in principal with their counter­parts in Illinois, for equal rep­resentation on the committee deciding the issue. Indiana had only one of eight votes on the previous commit­tee, which agreed a new airport is needed. 
., < ., ' ~~1·-ip.,y-· : .. ~· . *~· ~ ~~~·:·, ~ 
... ~ .. ·:.~~ 'l
'"t'. ~...,",l;: ,/jt
;I,~ brflf #p . . < 
$1 G,~t:~, ~ .... Y,_ #. 

The list of possible sites was narrowed to Hatcher Gary Regional Airport, an un­developed site near the Indiana-Illinois state line, a site north of Kankakee, Ill., and one northwest of Peotone, Ill. 
The new committee will oversee the third phase of the study and is expected to select a site by the fall of 1989. 
Indiana officials say equal representation on the panel is critical to Gary's chances of being selected. 
"I always look upon these boards in numerical terms. My sense is we are going to have a fairer hearing of Gary's case with equal representation," said U.S. Rep. Peter Visclosky, D-Ind. 
Roland Mross, director of the Indiana Department of Trans­portation, and Garred Jones, a planner for the Illinois division of aeronautics, said a final decision on the committee's 
Dave Hensler, Doug Webb, Chang-Hee Won, and Hall. Won, a student from Korea, has his room Bernie Zidan (left to right) spend a relaxing Sunday decorated with a variety of posters promoting the afternoon watching the Olympic Games in Pangborn Games. 
Jackson is highest-paid entertainer 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Three Hoosiers, including No. 1 Mi­chael Jackson, are on Forbes magazine's list of the 40 highest-paid entertainers. 
Jackson, the Gary native who raked in an estimated $60 mil­lion this year, moon walked his way past Bill Cosby to become the world's highest-paid enter­tainer. 
Jackson, who was ranked ninth on last year's Forbes Top 40 list of the wealthiest celebrities, is expected to earn a total of $97 million for 1987 and 1988, Forbes says in its Oct. 3 edition. 
The 30-year-old entertainer made approximately $40 mil­lion from his recent worldwide tour, and the rest came from sales of his album "Bad," his autobiography, "Moonwalk," Pepsi endorsements and other music publishing, the maga­zine says. 
Cosby, who held the No.1 slot on last year's list with 1986-87 income of $84 million, was No. 2 on the current list with $92 million in earnings for 1987 and 1988, Forbes says. 
Cartoonist Jim Davis, who creates his "Garfield" strips, books and assorted other items from Muncie, was 15th on the list. According to Forbes, Davis' expected earnings for 1987 and 1988 total $36 million. 
Also on the list is John Cougar Mellencamp, the rock 'n' roll singer from Seymour whose es­timated earnings are $23 mil­lion. Forbes ranked him at No. 31. 
Forbes also notes that in death, perhaps more so than in life, entertainers continue to fill pocketbooks as well as hearts. 
Tennessee's Elvis Presley is tops on the list of deceased en­tertainers whose estates are making in excess of $1 million annually. His estate is ex­pected to earn about $15 mil­lion, Forbes said. 

r---------------------------------------------------------~ 
At Smith Corona, simplicitJ
is the motherof invention. 

We started out with a very sim­We call the SD 700 the Memory ple idea. Typewriter. You just may call it the 
To make electronic typewriters simplest typewriter in memory. and word processors that have lots It features a 7,000 character of great features but are very simple editable memory you can access with 

to use. 'the mere flip of a switch. 
~simple you Combined with the 16 character don't have to keep LCD display, you can proofread, cor­one eye on your rect and make changes before you typing and one eye ever put anything down on paper. on the instruction Of course, should you want to 
We make manual. the simplest 
So simple you
typewriters 

don't need a degree 
in memory. 

in computer pro­gramming to operate them. 

So simple they can even make a confirmed non-typist comfortable at the keyboard. 
Call it human engineering if you like. Or call it ergonomics. Or call it plain old inspiration. 
What we came up with is a line of remarkable typewriters that are sophisticated without being complicated. 
In fact, they're unlike any other typewriters you've ever seen before ... or used before ... or muttered at before. 
Take our new Smith Corona SD 700. (Lots of people are going to.) 
membership is expected by the end of the month. 
Mross said he believes there will be nine or 11 members, with a representative of the Federal Aviation Administra­tion on the committee to break any ties. 
Still to be resolved is whether Chicago should be represented on the board. 
Paul Leonard, the regional vice president of the Air Transport Association, and the 

Burma 
continued from page 1 

defiant citizens, movement of 
troops throughout the city and 
sporadic shooting," said Spokeswoman Anita Stock-man. 
Menashe Zippori, Burma's ambassador to Israel, said on Israel radio: "Every now and then we can hear in the back­ground shots fired, but everybody is in his own house. 
We cannot tell who is shooting preceded by martial music, whom." said the military took over On Saturday, soldiers fired state authority "to curb further into a crowd and wounded two deterioration of the general sit­
uation in the country." 

Give your typing a screen test. 
make changes on paper, we've made that simpler than ever too. 
On the SD 700, as well as on every new Smith Corona typewriter, you'll find our new correcting cassette. 
It's easy-to-load and you can insert it in seconds. 
There are no spools to unwind. No complicated threading. No tangles. 
So now correcting mistakes is as easy as making them. 

the correction system. 
Add features like a Spell-Right'" 50,000 word electronic dictionary, WordFind; WordEraser; Full Line Correction and much more and you've got a typewriter that's not just incred­ibly simple to use, but simply impos­sible to pass up. 
Of course, the same goes for every other Smith Corona typewriter and word processor as well. 
Which is why we recommend that you hurry to your nearest store and try our machines yourself. 
Obviously, they won't come to you. 

Yet. 


SMITI-1 
CORON~ 
TOI\IIORR0\111'5 TECHNOLOGY 
AT YOUR TOUCH 
For more information on this product, write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 or Smith Corona (Canada Ltd.),440 Tapscott Road, Scarborough,Ontario, Canada MIB IY4. 
committee's representative from Chicago, voted against the previous panel's findings that a new airport is needed. The other six members of the panel voted in favor of the fin­dings. 
Leonard says he and a rep­resentative of the Chicago De­partment of Aviation should be on the new committee because their exclusion would weight the panel unfairly in favor of construction of a new airport. 
people during confrontations with protesters demanding an end to the repressive rule bv 
the Burma Socialist Program Party, the sole legal p::1rty. A later broadcast named the other 18 military officers in the committee, including the army, navy and air force com­manders, eight of Burma's nine regional army com­manders, and the unpopular military intelligence chief, Col. Khin Nyunt. The initial broadcast, 

-~-----_..---------------~ -----~~~-------~---­
page 5 



Public inspection file is established 

By JIM WINKLER 
Staff Reporter 
The Activities Fee Allocation Committee has established the Public Inspection File for those students who wonder exactly how their $45 per year Student Activities fee is spent . 
The file, updated and main­tained by the Office of Student Activities, contains all fund re­quests and check requistions for money from the Student Ac­tivities fee. 
Last April, Director of Stu­dent Activities Joe Cassidy pro­posed the idea of a public file to the Allocation Committee. Cassidy said he believed some sort of public file should be es­
Whistle while you work 
Seniors Anita Chua (left) and Theresa Henley meticulously sculpt their clay projects yesterday eve­ning in the Leo and Edna Riley Hall of Art and Design. 
tablished and made accessible to all students so they could see 
~hua, a business major, shows that pottery is not 
where their money was being
JUS! a course for art majors. 
spent. 
AND YOUR 

**sponsored by Student Gov't. 
T·SHIRTS 


SWEATS MUCH MORE!! DESIGN SCREEN 
Cassidy said he got the idea 
the requesting groups' needs, as well as that groups' past spending patterns. 
This information is compiled the same way as the annual Student Activities fee budget, which is public information, ac­cording to Zinser. She added that a copy of the budget is on file in her office and may be viewed there. 
Although the budget is public information, Zinser said many students still wonder exactly how the money is spent. 
Any request for funds is ini­tially processed in the student government office and then sent to Cassidy for a signature of approval, according to Zinser. Cassidy's staff is re­sponsible for making a copy of the request and entering it into the Public Inspection File. The file is kept in the Student Ac­tivities Office in LaFortune Student Center. 
According to Cassidy, the file "is public for any member of the Notre Dame community." 
Cassidy said he did not an­ticipate many students perus­ing the file, but added, "Stu­dents who have some complaint or doubt about how the money is being spent can now come up and see the infor­mation." 
Cassidy pointed out that the file is already operational and said he encourages interested students to use the file. 

NO'S 1ST ANNUAL 
CAMPUS-WIDE DEBATE SERIES 
Seeks motivated individuals to organize & implement '89 competition. 
People needed in the following areas: Publications, Accounting, Topic Development, Graphi~ Design and 
for the file from several schools 
he'd been associated with since 
his own college career. 
According to Student Body 
Treasurer Michelle Zinser, the 
committee believed that the 
file was a good way for clubs 
and organizations to be held ac­
countable to students for what 
they spend. 
Zinser added, "This informa­tion has always been on record in my office and in Student Ac­tivities, but now we have a way to make it public for students.'' 
Zinser said the allocations are determined by assessing 


Public Relations. 


Information Meeting

BE PART OF THIS HISTORIC EVENT! 
llnlnmltv of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study

Call 239-6444 TODAY FOR DETAILS. 
Program
or x4011 

All are Welcome 

Applicntion Dcndlinc foa· Spa·in~ S(•mcst(•a· W89 
October 15, 1988 
PART-TIME CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS STUDENTS WITH OVERSEAS EXPERIENCE EARN MONEY NOW WHILE CONTINUING YOUR STUDIES! 
OUR CLIENTS ARE CURRENTLY SEEKING QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS WITH FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA EXPERTISE, ESPECIALLY FOR ASIAN, AFRICAN AND LATIN AMERICAN MARKETS. MANY PART-TIME CONSULTING ANOOR RESEARCH ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE DURING SCHOOL YEAR. SOME FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS AVAILABLE AFTER GRADUATION. FOREIGN NATIONALS WITH ADVANCED DEGREES WELCOMED. EXPERIENCE IN SCIENTIFIC AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FIELDS ESPECIALLY SOUGHT BY CLIENTS. 
FOR PROMPT CONSIDERATION PLEASE SEND RESUME 
AND PHONE NUMBER





PRINTED TO YOUR 
TO: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION P.O. BOX A-3629 CHICAGO, IL 60690 

SPECIFICATIONS. CALL 
OUR CLIENTS PAY ALL FEES. THERE IS NO COST.
UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
I 
TO APPLICANTS. 
1
P.O. BOX 928 255 _ 

NOTP~ DAME, INDIANA 4239 
j 
page 6 The Observer Monday, September 19, 1988 



Iran releases list of Gulf War casualties 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus--Iran said Sunday it lost 123,220 soldiers and 11,000 civilians in the 8­year-old war with Iraq, marking the first time Tehran has announced casualty fig­ures. 
Islamic Guidance and Cul­ture Minister Mohammad Khatami said in an interview with Tehran radio, monitored in Nicosia, that 60,711 other military personnel were listed as missing in action. He said Iran believed many of those are prisoners of war in Iraq. 

The death toll cited by Khatami was well below es­timates of 300,000 Iranians killed that Western military analysts said were considered to be conservative. 
Iraqi officials have claimed more than 800,000 Iranians were killed before a U.N.­sponsored cease-fire took ef­fect Aug. 20. 


Unwanted couches and other displaced furnature clutter the grounds behind Sorin Hall, where they have been located since the beginning of the fall semester. 
. ... your ¢aJ;e~~ )i'·. ·········· ·~ardl! .·•·•·••••. ·•·.··•····· < > · 
··valuable oonuicts . 

·:~~:;ti~< 
a•···••:::,:t£UUl the fi1'tns . . 
WE ALWAYS NEED LFADERS 

leadership fJI:eUence Starts Here 

Sit on it 

Khatami gave no figures for Iran's wounded. But Western analysts estimated them ear­lier this year at 600,000 to 700,000. 
U.S. and other Western analysts have estimated 120,000 Iraqis killed and 300,000 wounded in the conflict. 
Iran held a 3-1 manpower edge over its foe, but for much of the war the Iraqis fought from heavily fortified defense lines that helped minimize their casualties. 
Khatami, who is also a dep­uty commander at military headquarters, said Iran's Revolutionary Guards suffered the worst casualties: 79,664 killed. 
The Guards, known as Pas­daran, bore the brunt of the fighting and repeatedly launched human-wave offen­sives against Iraq's formidable liefenses. 
Khatami said 35,170 soldiers of the regular army were killed. The officer corps of the army, built up by the late Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, was crippled by revolutionary purges after the monarch was toppled by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's Islamic Revolution in 1979. 
Khatami also said 11,000 civilians were killed in Iraqi at­tacks on Iranian cities. 
Diplomatic sources said several thousand civilians were slain in a seven-week "war of the cities" earlier this year. 

Former Indiana man linked to cult 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO--Eight 
boxes of correspondence and 
memos from the Peoples 
Temple commune at Jones­
town, Guyana, where 913 
people died in a mass suicide 
10 years ago, have become 
available for scholarly review. 
Among the documents are dozens of scribbled notes from members suggesting methods of taking revenge on people who defected from the group, which the Rev. Jim Jones formed in Indianapolis in the mid-1950s. One of the proposals involved selling the defectors poisoned Christmas candy. 
The records, unsealed by a court-appointed receiver and deposited recently at the Cali­fornia Historical Society in San Francisco, reveal the bizarre mental states of members of 
the Peoples Temple. 

Jones, who grew up in the eas­tern Indiana community of Lynn, moved to Indianapolis in 1949 and formed the Peoples Temple six years later. He moved the group to California in the mid-1960s, reportedly be­cause he believed there would be a nuclear holocaust in 1967 and that California would be safer. 
In a group of letters to Jones, who masterminded the mass suicide on Nov. 18, 1978, some members vowed to kill them­selves and their children on command. 
Jones' aides wrote memos to him on how sleep deprivation and Vitamin B complex deficiency are useful tools in brainwashing. 
Most members of the com­mune swallowed grape drink laced with potassium cyanide a short time after Rep. Leo Ryan, a San Francisco Ex­aminer photographer, two NBC reporters and a Temple defector were killed by sup­porters of Jones in a hail of gun­fire at the commune's air strip. 


~***************************~ 
~ IO,.RE DAME APAR,.MEI,.S ~ ~ COMPLETEL V FURNISHED ~* 2 BEDROOM APTS ~ 
* ~
* 
RENT AS LOW AS ~ 

* 
~


* ~ 
~ OFFICE AT 820 NO AVE ~ 
234~664 7. '"" ~ CALL ANYTIME FOR APPT. AND INFO. ~ 
* ~ 
*****************************. 
p L 
u 
G 
E 

What is it? 
-ND/SMC 48 hr. immersion into inner-city life -During Christmas break at one of over 40 different sites -Opportunity to experience conditions of poverty, injustice, and apathy existing in our cities -Privilege to meet with those who work to improve these conditions and to llilli:!! -Participants receive 1 hour academic credit 
For more information, contact the Center for Social Concerns at 2 39-52 9 3 or your dorm representative. 
Register Sept. 21 through Oct. 3. 








Accent
Monday, ~eptember 19, 1988 page 7 
Humor, heart all in 'The Hogan Family' 
Dining hall food partof games people play~ 
hit the deck. Offer to slip Hall only) Cut out a shark fin IAN MITCHELL them a fiver for a triple por­and put it on the tray con­
accent columnist 
tion of fried cod. But veyor. As it creeps towards 

oo many Notre Dame stu­whatever you do, get meat. the kitchen, hum the themeT dents miss out on having Lots of it. from "Jaws." Like all really the fullest, most enjoyable THE "BUT MA'AM, IT'S good jokes, this one never dining experience possible. FOR SCIENCE" GAME: grows old, so try it often. Presented in the public inter­What color of Jell-o oozes THE BOOTLEG FRUIT est, here then, are a few tips downhill the fastest? How do GAME: Try to smuggle as 
which can make your meal you know until you've tried? much fruit as possible out of 
and the meals of those around THE COW IMITATION the dining hall without being you more enjoyable (and no, GAME: Stand by the milk caught. If found out, claim leaving campus is not one of dispenser, and when someone "Why, I have no idea how 
them). pulls the lever, make a that banana got in there, 
THE MEAT ENTREE mooing sound in a loud voice. ma'am." · GAME: Try to accumulate as As well as being almost in­SEVEN FUN THINGS TO many meat items as possible. sanely funny, this game has SAY IN THE DINING HALL Make several trips. Beg. the additional advantage of (One for every day of the Plead. Threaten. Wear dis­helping you to get a table all week! Collect 'em all! Trade 
since his days as Derek on 
"Silver Spoons." This leads 
one to wonder if the show's 
next title will be "The Jason 
Bateman Show," which·is 
probably what it should have 
been from the beginning. 
The show has two minor flaws. It seems that the powers behind the show are not confident in their "unique" type of sitcom and occasionally do things to im­itate other more popular shows. The new character of David's friend Burt, for ex­ample, is from the same mold as Skippy ·on "Family Ties." The writers should realize they have something special in "The Hogan Family" and develop that instead of imitat­ing other shows. 

The other problem is more subtle and involves the show·s authenticity. The Hogans live in Oak Park, Illinois, a sub­urb of Chicago, yet the scenery on the show reflects nothing that would be found in Oak Park. The outside shots of the Hogan home, for example, display palm trees, which are definitely not found even in the most remote parts of the city. 
"The Hogan Family" is a unique and funny situation comedy that deserves great respect. If it can smooth out a few of its rough edges, it would be a exemplary show sure to be around for many years to come. It's nice to see quality actors in a quality show ... for a change. 
What's the point of all this? Well, I'm not saying that you can't make jokes about the food; some of it certainly is laughable (most recently, the innovative sandwich made up of ham, cheese, and inex­plicably, broccoli). But the people who work in Univer­sity F:ood Services are doing the best they can. And a little patience in waiting, a polite "please" and "thank you" every once in a while, or even (gasp! ) a compliment on those rare occassions when they serve something you ac­tually like goes a long way. 
For example, I hear the Cap'n Crunch is excellent this year. 
JOE BUCOLO 
accent writer 
orne things never changeS and some things change too often. One television show in particular has the best--and worst--of both these worlds, yet through it all, "The Hogan Family" continues to present quality situation com­edy entertainment. 
NBC presents "The Hogan Family" Monday nights at 
7:30. The show, which began its run three years ago, has undergone more changes than "Moonlighting" has aired reruns. Case in point: the show's title. When the show began, its title was "Valerie." Due to some problems be­tween Valerie Harper and the network, the show's title changed to "Valerie's Fam­ily: The Hogans" and the · show continued sans Harper. Recently, the title changed to "The Hogan Family" since Valerie was not around anyway. The moral: do not argue with the network. 
What has not changed is the show's constant dedication to quality entertainment. '"1 he Hogan Family" involvet>, you guessed it, the· 5an family: 1\Iicl a• · r.los' .ylor), an air­line 1i ~ cct-.ng with the dea1.h Jf his wife, Sandy <Sandy Duncan), Michael's sister substituting as a mot­her figure for the three boys, David (Jason Bateman), the "stud" teenager constantly pursuing girls, and the twins­Willie (Danny Ponce) and Mark (Jeremy Licht), com­
peting with one another in everything. 
Of course, the main purpose of a situaticn comedy is to make its audience laugh. "The Hogan Family" does a fairly good job at achieving this end. While the show does not feature hilariously zany antics like "Growing Pains" and "Night Court," its writ­ers capture the humorous family situations that arise during everyday life. 
Probably the greatest asset to the show is its emphasis on family. The family sticks to­gether no matter what the consequences. One episode features some touching scenes as the boys struggle to deal with the loss of their mother. Most sitcoms do not touch on such dramatic themes, yet "The Hogan Family" handles them in a mature, maternal way-with comedy elements. 
Much of the humor in the show comes from the Hogans' neighbors, the Pooles. Mrs. Poole (Edie McClurg) is a show regular who stops by with an "extra" casserole or self-inflicted injury just to see what the Hogans are doing. She is usually only featured in one scene, but that is more than enough time for her to tell a crazy story or put her foot in her mouth several times. Willard Scott guest stars as Mr. Poole from time to time. 
"The Hogan Family" occa­

~ 
1 
t 
sionally serves as an educa­The performances on the tor. In one episode, a fire en­show are quite believable. gulfs the second floor of the Sandy Duncan's terrific act­family's house. The episode-­ing talent adds a wonderful co-sponsored by McDonald's-­realism to the show. Taylor is features some lessons about convincing as Michael, and fire safety and even offers a Licht and Ponce have done heart-wrenching speech from wonders to "flesh out" their 
David as he struggles with characters; however, the star 
the threat of losing the rest of of the show is definitely Jason 
his family so soon after his Bateman, whose acting talent mother's death. has developed incredibly 
After three different titles and a major change In the cast, "The Hogan Family" successfully provides laughs 
Calvin and Hobbes 

-:·t l. ~IJH Mt>.Kt.S '{Q\J ll\\'t:t--1 iOO SEE Er..R.I\-\ r..s fl­k\:1• .I'Ll::. j\JST HO'N S\111\ll llt-1'1 BL\Jt SPECK IN n.IE fl~-~t!>.lli !>.RE l~tlt-11\t. REIIC\\t'S or SPfl-CE, iO\l \\1>-VE 1D WONDE.R AOOJT 1<\iSitRIES ~ tR£1>-T\ON 
guises. Use different accents. to yourself, even during busy 'em with your pals!) Clever Claim to also be ordering hours. comments like these will enjoy hearing annoying 
criticism of how they do their
food for your invisible friend, THE "JUST WHEN YOU never fail to impress your "Binky." Distract the servers THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO friends, as well as amuse the jobs. 
by shouting "air raid!" then WORK IN THE KITCHEN" dining hall staff, who, like all 1. "Say, isn't that a human grab some meat while they GAME: (For South Dining University employees, really ear in your soup?" 
2. 
"Foodfight!" 

3. 
"Don't look now, but


Bill Watterson 
your 'tuna surprise casserole' S\JREL~ W\:."R£ m Pfl-R.T 0\ is making a break for it." '.)()t.\1: GREAT lltSIGN, NO 1'\~1: 4. "I can't eat this, I think OR LESS IMPoRT !>.NT MN ~'{ 
it's evolved into a sentient 
T\\11'\G ElSE IN 1\J.£ Ut-IIIJER'Sl 

being."
S\JREl.i 'dtRiT\\ING VIIS 

5. "I'm not saying this hot
TOGE 1\\ER 1\ND 1-\t>-S r.. P\JRI\J'£, 

to. R£l>.SON RlR B£1\-IG. DOts!'\\ dog tastes funny or anything, II M~ ~\J WONDI:.R ~ but didn't there used to be more student employees here?" 
6. "Look, something's 
trapped in my Jell-o! And its trying to get out!" 
7. "Oh goody, eggplant!" 



Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, September19, 1988 
"Temptation" insulting to Christianity 
The recent trip to see the movie "The Last Temptation of Christ," sponsored by SUB·and GSU, along with a View­point article about the same, have brought out some points that I believe should be discussed. 
John Raphael, Jr. 
guest column 
It seems that a great number of people think that unless one has seen the movie he is not in a position to criticize it. I do not believe that this is true. Obviously there will be certain aspects of the movie on which J will not be able to comment (e.g. artistic style, cinematography, file quality etc.), but these areas have no relevance to my criticism of the film. My objection is to the film content, and anyone who has read a review of the film can attest to the fact that the content of the movie­-especially the most controversial scenes--have been accurately reported. Thus, it is perfectly justified for one to make a judgment about these particu­lar areas, regardless of whether one has seen the movie or not. In fact, we do this all the time. Certainly the posi­tion cannot be held that one must actu­ally enter a pornographic shop and sample its wares before a decision about the moral content of such materi­als could be made. Neither would it be maintained that a person must acutally experience a drug overdose before he is qualified to make a judgement about the consequences of such activity. Our faith itself is something based not on a physical encounter with Christ, but rather on a spiritual relationship that we first encounter through the tes­timony of family, friends, the Scrip­
tures, and the Church. 
Clearly it is not necessary for one to be physically present at an event in or­der to make valid criticisms about ac­curately reported facts pertaining to it. In fact, the idea that one has to be pres­ent at this movie excludes formal and rational forms of protest, such as boycotts, and it plays into the hands of the producers who automatically win as soon as a ticket is purchased. Thus, it is possible to disagree with this film and to state those disagreements with­out having seen it. · 
This moves me to the next point. One . reason why a Christian should not see this movie is that it is blasphemous. Before I continue I think that it is im­portant to clarify this term. Blasphemy is anything that is insulting to God, principally, an~ to holy persons or things. Thus anything that attributes sin to God is blasphemous. This movie does this several times, but I will con­centrate on the most widely publicized scene, the so-called "dream-sequence" on the cross. This scene is misnamed both as a dream and as a temptation. In common usage a dream is under­stood as something that occurs during sleep when one is not in control of one's thought. A temptation is an enticement to sin and may have its source in con­cupiscence (desires and tendencies for sinful sense pleasures), the devil, or other people and circumstances. A temptation is ~ot a sin precisely be­cause it is an enticement, and one is free to reject it. This, however, is not the case in this movie. What happens here is best described as a sexual fan­tasy. This is not simply a thought about what might have happened, as so many claim. Rather it is a case of active men­tal participation in illicit sexual activ­ity. In no way can this be considered a dream, nor merely an enticement. This action is clearly forbidden by Christ in the sermon on the mount; " ...if a man looks at a woman lustfully, he has already commited adultery with her in his heart (Mt. 5: 28)." Holy Scripture and the teaching ofthe Church are crys­tal clear when proclaiming the sinless­ness of Christ. St. Paul says that Christ was "tempted in all things, but without sin." This movie goes beyond tempta­tion, and it has Christ in sin. 
The very nature of the scene is wrong
because it is based on concupiscence, . 
Although concupiscence itself is not sin, still Christ was not subject to it because He was not subject to its cause, Original Sin. The First Vatican Council (1869-70) declared in its fourth chapter on The Mystery of the Incarnation, that "it is true that Christ shares our flesh and blood, but by no means did He contract 

UNITED NATIONS CM.LtDIH 10 MEDIATE YU ANOT~ER REliGIOUS W~R ... 

Doonesbu 
ABC WIOE 
IA/ORWOF 
NC/A/5. 
I JU§T WANTW70 IE YOU ANO GUF$ WHAT? YOU'Re GOING KNO«J OUR TOPIC-OF-77-If-l?AY 7lJ PUT ITAU. ON me NWS 7lJNIGHT 
15 13N&R6Y. 7118 PH(Jf(} OP IS EJE,CAU58 YOU'Re PAT51/3$ ANO ATAN OFF5HORE OIL RIG, ANl? YOU HAVEW'T A aue HOW TO 77-18 UN&-OF-7Hf3.-0AY IS Tf3tl-THf3 570RY WITHOUTOUR 
''RffAI? MY UPS: TAX BR&AI<S V15UAt/3 ANO 50UNf? FOR Olt..COMPAN18S!" BITeS! RIGHT~ 
the stain of guilt when He took our weak nature; and although He was endowed with true free will, He not only did not sin, ·but He could not sin. He was not troubled with the passions of the soul or the concupiscences of the flesh, and He did not free Himself of these gradually, but He was conceived holy of the Holy Spirit in the womb of the most pure Virgin, and He was born ho­ly." This movie thus is the greatest in­s,ult to Christ as it attributes sin to the spotless Lamb of God. 
Another objection that a Christian or any conscientious person has to this movie is that it is simply an insult to Christ whom Christians dearly love. This movie portrays Christ as a weak, confused; frightened, sexually unstable man. This is simply intolerable. Claims have been made that this movie is fic­tional, that it represents the director's personal struggle. Unfortunately, the director has chosen a historical figure 


"A temptation is not a sin precisely because it is an enticement, and one is free to reject it." 
and intermingled fact with fiction. By today's standards this movie would be libelous. Artistic license does not give one the right to tamper with historical facts. We Christians have a very clear image of a compassionate Christ who loved the sinner, but condemned the sin. To portray Christ as this movie did is to lie. It is character assassination and ridicule of Jesus Christ. Would our Moslem brothers and sisters justify a scandalous attack on Mohammed? As a black man, would I and my brothers and sisters justify an attack on Dr. Mar­

,-------------------------------.
I p Q BQX Q 
.___________•___• _________________.) 
tin Luther King, Jr.? 
So why should we as Christians be 
expected to allow this scandalous film 
to be shown without a fight? Even more 
so, why should it be expected that we 
must watch this movie. Certainly one 
would not pay to see a movie that 
portrayed one's mother as a prostitute. 
This movie is worse in that it portrays 
Christ as the worst kind of sinner. It is 
unfortunate that many now think that 
sin is naturally human when, in fact, 
just the opposite is true. Sin is the result 
of man's misuse of his free will. And 
Christ came to redeem us from sin. 
Christ's purpose was not to become 
man so that He could see what it was 
all about, rather He became man to 
show us exactly how we are to live. We 
must die to sin and put on a new life of 
holiness in Christ. 
These are the reasons why I would 
not see this movie, and I offer them for all Christians to consider. In no way do I feel that viewing the movie would add to what I have written. I feel that viewing the inovie would add to wh::~t I have written. I feel that it is a moral obligation to avoid this type of attack on Christianity. In addition, I contrib­ute to the financial success of the pro­. ducers. It is not a sign of intellectual maturity to participate in any endeavor simply for the sake of having first hand experience. It seems, rather, that one would carefully evaluate the circum­stances of the event, and, based on that evaluation, make a decision. In this particular case, I have decided. based on the reasons given above, th. t ibis movie is contrary to Christian faith, an insult to Our Lord, and unacceptable, 
morally offensive viewing material. 
. 
John Raphael, Jr., is a senior philoso­phy major. 


Film tarnishes Christ's image 
Dear Editor: 
As college students, we are continu­ally told to think, to reflect, to con­template. As college students at a Cath­olic university, our theology and 
/philosophy professors tell us to think, to reflect, and to contemplate our faith. Let's face it, blind belief and unintel­ligent faith are not popular at Notre Dame. However, because a student is opposed to or simply uncomfortable with the film "The Last Temptation of Christ," does not make him guilty of this intellectual sin. 
The assumption of the Sept. 13 column by Mr. Victor Krebs ("Students Fear Threat to Beliefs") is that one must see this movie to reflect on the mystery of the Incarnation. One must see Jesus unsure of His identity and giving into the sin of sexual fantasy before one can understand the reality of his humanity. This is simply not true. The Bible offers us many examples of Christ's human struggles without taint-of Lazarus' death and when his mother asked him for a miracle at Cana, he gave into her wish. Aren't these exam­ples of Christ's true emotions and human feeling? 

Furthermore, Mr. Krebs labels those who are offended by the film as fundamentalists--a modern day version of the Pharisee. But I put this before you: is there anything wrong with being sickened (this goes past offended) by a movie which portrays the Savior as giving in to carnal desires? This portrayal goes beyond showing Jesus' human features, it makes him a hypo­crite, it mocks his teachings and our faith. 
1 agree with Mr. Krebs, faith should be personal and should be intelligent. We should reflect and discuss the mys­teries of the Church. However, I do not think that the context of this discussion needs to be a movie of questionable con­tent. Finally, anyone who claims that true understanding of faith can arise only out of such a context is as closed­minded as those he is condemning. 
Kari Swindell Pasquerilla East 

ing his divinity. He wept when he heard.r-----------=S..:.ep~t:..:.·...:1.:.5:....,:.:19:.:.:88. 
Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the Day 
"Never let your head hang down. Never give up and sit down and grieve. Find another way, and don't_ pray when it rains when you don't pray when the sun shines." 
Satchel Paige 


Viewpoint

Monday, September 19, 1988 page 9 

Dukakis atteinpts to veil his liberalism 
In a very real sense, the 1980 and 1984 . elections were refreshingly understan­dable contests. On the one side stood Ronald Reagan, longtime darling of the American Right, . enumerating what were clearly recognized as conserva­tive prescriptions for America's ills: less government, a stronger defense, a stress upon traditional values. Oppos­ing him were Jimmy Carter in 1980, and then Walter Mondale four years later. 
Kevin Smant 
on politics 
Both could safely be called "liberals" who sharply attacked Reagan on his supposed "insensitivity" toward the poor and government's role in alleviat­ing it. Reagan's two victories have paved the way for the 1988 Republican nomination of Vice-President George Bush who, while striking out on his own on certain issues (notably education and the environment), still promises to continue Reagan's legacy on the issues of taxes <he won't raise them) and na­tional defense (he will follow the dictum "peace through strength.") Americim conservatives generally have rallied around the Bush candidacy, despite earlier misgivings.
So Republicans once again cheerfully accept the notion that they are a con­
servative party, running a conserva­tive candidate for president. And the Democrats, in choosing Michael Dukakis, cheerfully call themselves the...er, how do they see themselves anyway? As America's liberal party? But the Dukakis-Democrats have tried to deny this. Dukakis himself stresses that he wishes only to provide "economic opportunity for all" with "good jobs at good wages." Besides, the election is about "competence, not ideology;" why, in Dukakis' opinion, his views are closer to President , Reagan's in foreign policy than are Mr. Bush's. He even chose moderately con­servative Lloyd Bentsen as his running mate, who is in favor Of such liberal heresies as aid to the Contras, tax reductions, and efforts to end abortions. 
On the other hand, a careful reading 
of the Democratic platform, which was 
written mainly by Dukakis partisans, 
reveals a.vastly different picture. Here 
the old Mondale liberalism reappears, 
albeit in new, carefully chosen code 
words. It's time for America to 
"reassert progressive values," says 
the document, as the poor have suffered 
"economic violence;" worker safety 
has been endangered by "seven callous 
years." The littany continues: "Pay 
equity...childcare infrastruc­
ture...no one should be denied the op­
portunity to attend college for financial reasons...greed...affirmative action, including goals, timetables, and procurement set-asides...all Americans should enjoy access to af­fordable, comprehensive health ser­vices...renew the fight against hunger...a sense of compassion and community...the fundamental right of reproductive choice should be guaranteed regardless of ability to pay...."You get the idea. Despite the widespread feeling, then, that Mr. Dukakis has distanced himself from the decidedly left-wing views of Jesse Jack­son, the platform underscores the real consensus between the two. Nearly the entire program outlined by Rev. Jack­son in his emotional convention speech can be found in a careful sifting of the platform. The difference is merely one of tone, not of substance. The question, then, must be: why, publicly, has Mr. Dukakis distanced himself from what he obviously holds dear? 
The answer is obvious: this is the Democrats formula for . winning. Democrats perceive that Americans won't vote for a presidential candidate identifying himself as a "liberal." But moderate, competence-minded rheto­ric wrapped closely around a liberal core might allow them to slip past an unwary public. For a while this sum­mer, the strategy seemed to be working; Dukakis held a seventeen point lead. But the bland mush doled out by Dukakis and Bentsen, combined with a devastating Bush counteroffen­sive on national defense issues, has propelled the Vice President into an eight point lead. Conventional "les­sons" drawn from this turnaround by liberal columnists are that Dukakis has allowed himself to be put on the defen­sive, his campaign has not been aggres­sive enough, his "photo opportunities" haven't been as pretty as Mr. Bush's, etc. 

But Democrats need to learn some­thing else. They must forthrightly define themselves to America. A party cannot hide its true colors; attempting to do so results in robot-like candidates, platitudinous speeches, and infighting within the party. If Democrats truly ··' believe in liberalism (and the vast majority of them seem to, including Mr. Dukakis), why don't they say so? Isn't it better to fight a battle over what one truly believes in? Or would Democrats rather cloak themselves ih "me too" rhetoric of defense issues and taxes--and lose anyway, as current trends indicate they will? In either case, I believe George Bush will win this election. But a Democratic Party truly explaining itself would at least give him an opponent he could respect. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history· 
P.O. Box Q 

Author opinionates the statistics 
Dear Editor: 
Rich Coglianese wants to talk "eco'lomic facts" <The Observer, Sept. 
13) while discussing the upcoming U.S. presidential election. I think that's a great idea, but I wonder why he doesn't do it. He repeats the phrase attributed to our notoriously fact-abusing presi­dent, "Facts are stubborn things," seven times. The first sign that he is not about to stick to the facts is in his first paragraph. He wants us to ask our­selves the question that Reagan used in his 1980 campaign for the White House. Then he gives us the answer: yes, we are all better off than we were eight years ago. Under what interpre­tation of the word "fact" is this a fact? I have met many people in this and other countries for whom this is not true. If what Mr. Coglianese claims is true, there is no one who may claim that he or she has become worse off in the last eight years. This may seem to be a trivial point, but when he claims to be stating only the facts, I feel obliged to point out when he is resorting to rhetoric. 
In the first four paragraphs Mr. Coglianese tells us what the prime len­ding rate and the inflation rate peaked during the Carter administration, along with the fact that tax rates were not indexed to inflation. Beyond these facts the rest of the opening of his "analysis" is devoted to more rhetoric. Twice we are told that the nation was in "a state of economic chaos" when George Bush assumed the helm of the office of Vice Preisdent. He and Reagan, we are told (together, presumably, though it is a fact that Bush had earlier called Reaganomics • 'voodoo economics''), pushed through the "economically vindicated" tax cuts of 1981. I, for one, am not convinced of the "fact" that these tax cuts are completely "vind­icated." , 
Next we are treated to a list of the accomplishments of the Reagan admin­istration, now known as the ReagarvBush administration. Let me note just a few statistics that Mr. Coglianese chose to leave out of his presentation. 
According to the Economic Policy In­stitute, as quoted in The Nation, the minimum wage in the 1980s has been worth nearly $1 less per hour in real terms than it was in the 1960s. There has been a 47 percent increase in the number of people who work full time year-round but who remain below the poverty threshold. Since 1979 84 percent of job growth has been in the two lowest paying industries, retail trade ($258Week) and business and health services ($327/week). Today 5 million children under age 6 live in poverty, 1.6 million more than in 1979. The middle 40 percent of families have lost, on average, about $1,500 per year in in­come between 1977 and 1988. The average gain of the top one percent ($134,513) was almost six times the in­come of the average family in the middle 40 percent. I don't need to men­tion the trade and budget deficits. 
The point is that we can all line up our "facts" and claim that we have an objective argument to establish whatever conclusion we started with in the first place. The reason that I get so frustrated when I read articles such as Mr. Coglianese's, or similar articles from all parts of the political spectrum, is that their authors do not seem to be aware that their reasoning is distorted by their prior beliefs and that the selec­tive facts which they cite can be con­vincing only to someone who is already in agreement with them. The reason I feel compelled to write in response to Mr. Cognianese is that he makes such a big show of using the facts. The fact is that it is just his opinion. 
James Stukas St. Joseph Hall Sept. 15, 1988 
Visit of Upjohn CEO condemned 
Dear Editor: 
This past Tuesday, Sept. 13, the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government, a privately financed, University-run research center estab­lished to analyze public policy ques­tions within the framework of Judeo-Christian values, sponsored a lecture by Dr. Theodore Cooper, Chie~ Executive Office of Upjohn. As stated in The Observer's Viewpoint section on Monday, Sept. 12, Upjohn contributes to the abortion of approximately twelve fetuses each hour and approximately 30,000 each year in the United States. Moreover, Upjohn is responsible for the death of an untold number of fetuses in foreign countries from drugs it manufactures and markets that have not yet been proven safe enough for use in America. 

As Catholics, we consider abortion the taking of innocent human life, and, therefore, opposed Dr. Cooper's pres­ence on the campus of Notre Dame. Although Dr. Cooper spoke on AIDS, we think affording him this forum lent credibility to his pro-abortion activi­ties. Paul Blewett 
Dennis Staffelbach Lester Syren Edward White Members, White Center Sept. 15, 1988 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, fetters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, Is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ......................................Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Corcia Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager..... . .... Bernadette Shilts Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ....... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager.. . ....... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimefe Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 
page 10 The Observer Monday, September 19, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
r 
I I I I 
I 
I I 
I The ND Water Polo will hold a mandatoryI club meeting for all club members today at the Stepan Courts will be reserved from 4:15 to In NFL action Sunday, Buffalo defeated New 
I Montgomery Theatre in the LaFortune Student Cen­6:15 p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday af­England 16-14, Cincinnati stopped ~itt~burgh 17-12,I ter at 7:30p.m. Bring insurance forms. Any ques­Kansas City upset Denver 20-13, M1am1 beat Green 
I ternoons running through Wednesday, Sept. 28. The 
I tions should be directed to Jay Blount at x2303. -The 5-10 and Under Basketball tourney will be held Bay 24-17, the New York Jets stunned Houston 45-3, 
Minnesota buried Chicago 31-7, New OrleansI Observer during these times and have priorities on the courts. 
I trippe~ Detroit 22-14, Washington downed Philadel­
-The Observer

I The NO Aikido Club is holding practic~s phia 17-10, Phoenix knocked off TaJ?pa Bay 30-24,I Mondays and Wednesdays from 6 to 7:45p.m. m Jazzercise has come to Notre Dame. Non­San Diego bounced Seattle 17-6, the New York 
Giants edged Dallas 12-10, the Los Angeles RamsI room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Aikido is a Varsity Athletics is offering a 5: 10 p.m. class on
I 
I defense-oriented martial art in which students learn Mondays and Wednesdays at Rockne Memorial. nipped the Los Angeles Raiders 22-17 and Atlanta I to redirect an opponent's energ~ so that the attac~er Register at the NVA office, and call 239-6100 for shocked San Francisco 34-17. -Associated Press I is thrown by his own directional force or Im­more information. -The Observer 
mobilized with a joint lock. New members are al­In the American League, Boston defeated 
I the New York Yankees 9-4 on Sunday. In other 
I ways welcome with no e~perien~e necessary. For The ND-SMC Gymnastics Club wants games Baltimore blanked Detroit 2-0, Toronto shut more information, call Bnan Weidmann at 288-0954 those interested in joining the ~lub to pick up in­
I out Cl~veland 4-0, the Chicago White Sox downed
I or Brian McCarthy at 272-0196. -The Observer surance forms as soon as possible fron:t Ter~nce. 
Minnesota 8-5, California edged Texas 6-5, OaklandI Kelling (Dillon 382, x1866) or Janene Niedzwiecki· 
I Tom Browning of the Cincinnati Reds pitched (328 Holy Cross, 284-4387). Practice will begin today edged Kansas City 3-2 in 11 innings and Milwaukee I a perfect game Friday as the Reds defeated Los at 4 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer buried Seattle 10-2. -Associated Press 
I Angeles 1--0. -The Observer 
I I 
,_
I 
n.a...-Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· 
dent Center .ccepta classified ectw.tlalng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., MondayI ttvougt1 Frtday. n.a...-Saint u.rys office, located on the third floor of I ~Collge Center, .ccepta classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. unti13 p.m., Monday I through Friday. Oeedllne for next-day classlfledala 3 p.m. All classlfleda must 
I Classifieds 
be pntpakl, either In pen1011 or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five
I 
I 
ce-.cters per day. 
I 
I VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 1 need one ticket for Purdue, STUD or Need one Purd. Stud. tix-call x2940 NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX HAPPY 19TH VICKIE, WE LOVE 'VA!
NOTICES

I to provide GA. Willing to buy or to trade lor Air NEED PENN ST. STUD TIX ---"THE FAB FIVE" 
i-i·ii;:;;··iN'''i:iifiii..N.eEo..Q";:··;;··p-u·iiouii

I Force. Cindy x4149. call John at x2045 
FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
TYPING AVAILABLE GA'S: CALL GREG 1402I AND COUNSELING Niiio..;;;i;;;;;i:·s:r·uo..oFi..G";;.··:rix··;;aii: Fond Memory 11 5 from the Michigan
287-4082 

CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES 4·~·.·;;-;~;;;;~;·i);~;;;·i<itFofi.s,i;i:'ii ..i.i';j;~ State Roadtrlp I 234-3111 4160 I hate having sticky legs 
I 
I NEED MIAMI TICKETS. BUYING TWO me an offer. Call Paul x1847 WORDPROCESSING 
Niiio··;··;;ufii:iuii··i3·;;:·-;;i:E.AsE··c;;;t.:i: GAs AND TWO STUDENT. PLEASEI ......(;.iiou·;;;;:::aliouP"s:::aRouPs·····
CALL MARIA AT 283-3422 AFTER 7 PM. 

237-1949 II 3023 OR II 2999.
I NEED: 
I ............................................ You don't have to figure II out alone! 
1. Ride to Mpls area Purdue or Stanford ATTENTiON ..\i.:L" ST. MARY'S FRESH­
i·;;~~~··~·vEFiv.wiilii:n.lrish uncle who MY."iiROTHER WILL TRADE BEAUTI­Groups for personal growth, asser­
I 
wknd MAN:
WORD PROCESSING needs to see the Miami game! He will FUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 PURDUE OR tiveness, weight managemen1, sup­
I 2. 2 A.F. ga's VOTE K.S.
CALL TERRIE'S TYPING 287·1283 pay BIG $$$ lor GAs! II not Miami, then STANFORD GA x1999 NICK port lor black women and adult
3. 
1 Rice stu PRES.-KRISTIN SCHULTZ 

. any other home game. Please call Vtc at children of alcoholics are beginning

4. 
1 Stan stu N.EEo·;;·Puiiou·ii·o·ii·;;i·ii·;:c;iicE·a;;·.s V.P. -KATY SULLIVAN


36611 NOW. Call 239-7338 lor details.
I HAVE: THE SKY IS THE kiMIT
OR STUDENT BRIAN II 19271. 1 Miami & 1 Purd stu 

DESP.ER.ATE.LY...NE.ED···4·..G·A:S·· FOR 'F'~~d..M";;;;~;y..;;·;;·t,:;;;;;..ii;'l.ii~h'iii~~
2. $$$ iN..oE.sPEiii . ..\rE..NE.iio.o"F6·s:rui:i.iiN1­
MIAMI. WILL PAY BIG$$$$. CALL MIKE State Roadtrlp
Call2119 PURDUE!
X1380. TicKETs FOR PURDUE. PLEASE CALL Nugget Man 
' LOST/FOUND I 
PURDUE!
ALEX AT 3623. WILL PAY WELL!$!$! 

PURDUE! NEEo.fiii:ii·:rc;·Pinseufiaj:j:·;:E;vE
Helpll I lost a mother o'pearl and brass HATE···M-IAMiiii..HAli..MiAM'IIii..HATE :rFi;;.oii ... 2 ..srAN'Foiio..rix..'F.oFi···i.iv 1 need one GA lor Purdue. Mom lovesbracelet somewhere near Cavenaugh on MIAMIIII I NEED 7 ( YES 7) MIAMI GA 
9-23. RETURN 9-25. WILL PAY GAS. ........r.ol.i..;;iiii'GFiiissioN·.:··i<itiii········ NO and wants to see at least one game
9·10. Has great semental value-$$ MIAMI STUD TICKET OR CASH; 288­
CALL ANGELA 3440. TIXIIIII CALL x1245 or x1352 here this ) ear, and Purdue is the one.
reward lor retuml call Erin at 4915 if you 8603 REMEMBER-COAT AND TIEl Please cnll 283-2892 ASAP. Thanxl can help me!! 
liicii.Al:uiAtius.NEieos·2·sTANFORD i··~~;;j··;;~;;··;;.;;··"F~~~~-..ciA'·~··~~i,··:r~·;;;·· GA'S. CALL KEVIN AT 616-455-9412 i..NE.iii:i"(iii"oii''sru·i:i..ricKiiTs··;:c;ii

LOST·LAST THUijSDAY AT SMC: 4· FOR SALE 1632 Fond Memory 11 6 from the Michigan
(HOME) OR 616-791-3821 (WORK).

LEAF CLOVER PENDANT, HIGH SEN· STANDFORD. PLEASE CALL KATH­
State Roadlrlp TIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. PLEASE LEEN 5176 SMC I NEED AS MANY AS 
N.EEo·3"-Tix·:ro··sr:.\N·;:o·iio·$$·2697.. 

i·N·;;;i·4..i3:.\~·;~;·;;;i;;M;:·~;;ii·;;~~i·~;·ii47 Driving Mach 8 
CALL JOYCE AT 5430. POSSIBLE I 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" i ... N'iiii:i···;,v;;N":r···oiis.iiiE ... wii:i:···oo F~~~;;:··~;;;; ..;;;;;;;;·k~v~i404)··~·~-i:~F;;;. COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS GA & STU nx needed lpr Purdue game. ANYTHING OR PAY ANYTHING lor i"Niiio..5..i3;··Pu.iiou·ii··:rix··-;;L:iiA'sE 
......................

TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS MOney is no object.4521-Pat
tune. Call 2n-t485. STUD TIX !STANFORD 3MIAMI. My CALL KATHLEEN 5176 SMC! JOHN:..i.HEiA"ii.:YO"li:Fiii·;.: BACHELOR
TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE parents are even more desperate than
$$$$···N·iiiio···Puii.i:iu·Ei···(3;:5 ... 8:.\i:ii:v AGAIN, GIVE ME A RIG FOR THIS 
;;·i:E,i;sii:..,·F··;;N"voN·E·Foi:iNo..i.."'Goi:o DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN· me so if you have PURDUE GAs call i'AM'iN'DESP"ER'ATE.NEED'O'F·a·G·A:s 
WEEKEND .... HEATHER. LADIES WATCH AT THE MICHIGAN Amy II 2691 FOR PURDUE! CALL JEN SMC 4311! ..................... 
TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. $$$$ CALL x1649 
................................................................
GAME, SEC. 29-31 PLEASE CONTACT DRUMME.RS.!..BAND.SEE.KING DRUM­
FOR SALE: CASIO CZ-101 program­j:jfii:P.iii·i-Nii.iio"2.Puiiou·ii·G";;:~i-cALL
ME. REWARDIIIIII KATE 2n·1574. N.EEo·3-·s:ruo··;;uii.i:iuii..;;N·i:i·2 sTuD iNou.srfiv.i:i:.\v.w-;;d~~;;;;;;y·s;;;;i~;;;;;;;~ 
MER! INTERESTED? CALL I 3123mable, digital SYNTH~SIZER -new con­GREG x1655

ALSO LOST SMALL ALARM CLOCK RICE CALL X4111 THANKS 21 Industry Day Fair 11:00 AM-4:00PM
dition, with carrying case and instruc­
······································

SUNDAY !V11 SOMEWHERE IN ..................... Fitzpatrick Concourse Bring resumes ;:i;~··si~;;~~i-·u~i~~··s;;~;d··;~· ;;,e~~;;;;·i~
tions; TEAC TASCAM PORTA-ONE ;;··MATIER..OF LIFE OR DEATH. WILL tieiio··a;;··:n·x··;;oii.. ANY/ALL FOOT­
LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL WITH Permanent-Summer Employment Oppor­announce the production of a new mu­
MINI STUDIO -4 track mu~imixer and TRADE 2 AIRFORCE GA'S FOR 2
ANY INFO--I NEED TO GET UP FOR BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-0058. tunities Industry Day Banquet 5:00 PM sical, the
recorder, new condijion, with adapter and PURDUE GA'S X1213 ASK FOR MARK "SIMON," on Notre Dame CLASSES! $$$$$ Mixer ACC Monogram Room campus this Feb. 22·25. Anyone inter­
instructions. CALL JOE II 1865 ....................... i:osr·:·..·oN·E·····iiE'i:i ..... l:ii3'ii1Wiiiai-i1-NEED 1 STANFORD N.EE.o....2..;·i.i·i;;;;;i .... (3.;;:5··..Foii....riiii 
ested in the positions ol choreographer, rEci-i.Nics........ ;;M·P'i:iFiii·ii········sA2iiii.: Fond Memory II 3 from the Michigan stage manager, or musical dtrector
STUD. TICKET

JACKET ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 'RENTS.CALL J.T. 2165 State Roadtrlp should contact Rob Meffe by Sunday at50WATI IVA; EXCELLENT CONDI­Call Vln x2052
MIKE 272-7585 ·' Too much White trash in the stands II 3660.
TION $100; CALL 1716 N.EEo··-rwa··;;·uR.i:iuii··G";;:s·iii"" WILL 
································································ PAY$$$ CALL HEIDI AT 3860 
swF...sEEKs....i.i.liscui:AFi...:c;<J;;si~~

LOFT FOR SALE. CALL 237-7192. Fond Memory 11 7 from the Michigan
............................................ 

NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S, 2 AIR­State Roadtrlp
N.EED·-;··PURDUE GA OR STUD. CALL

Foii..sAi.:E·:·Eii:iiC:Tfi·,c;··;:y·p-fiwiiir.iiii THERESA AT 4189!! 
FOR RENT 
FORCE GA'S AND 1 AIRFORCE STUD ''I've had worse in my mouth." 
$60, ROSSIGNOL FP 203 SKIS $150. (AS IN STUDENT TICKET) CALL 
BED 'N BREAKFAST FOR FOOTBALL EXCELLENT CONDITION. 234-0696. CHRISSY X1348 I NEED PURDUE TIX CALL MIKE 4113 
WEEKENDS. PRIVATE ROOM & BATH. 

······························································ 
NEE·D·;··STAN.FO.RDSTU~WILL TRADE MIKE DAWN..'i'HE.."WiLD."WOMAN" BROH­10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. (219) 272­i·wii:i:."Tii:.\i:ii.4..P.uFiiiuii..G'A:s..;:oii 
MAN TURNS 20 TODAY. GOOD LUCK THREE MIAMI GA'S. CALL ART AT WITH GETTING A LITTLE NOOKIE 5989. A PRUDUE GA ---277-9438
TICKETS 

8Eii:i···:N···sfiiiA'KFA'sr ... iiE·G·Isrii·v··i~r i··~~~d··-;··~i~;;;~i ..~;··G";;··ii~k"~i·!~;··;;;~ (901) 525-1691 OR (901) 763-2586. TONIGHT! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, WE game weekends. 219-291-7153 NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE game. Please call Mike at 
HALAFF YOUI CHRISSIE & MUFFY H.ELP.HELPHELP NEED 2 GA TIX FOR PURDUE 1662. Will pay big $$. 
F~;:;d. M;;;;;~;y ..#..ii..~l-·ih~ .. Michigan

FuiiNisfiE·i:i·j:j6'us·ii·8;;:E··;;ii·ii;;·255-......................................... PURDUE FOR PARENTS PAY BIG CALL X2743 BUCKS CALL JIM 289-5120
GERRY·F·AU.ST coached ALL FOUR ol State Roadtrlp HAPPY BIRTHDAY Oh, never mind 3684288-0955 my undergrad yrs.Have a heart,sell grad 
....................

oo··vauii··~;ii·iiNrs ..NE.iio··;;··;;u.:cE stud. 2 Purdue stud tix or GAs.Jelf 277-wii:i:""TRADE 2 STANFORD GAs FOR Who would have ever thought that alter NE.iio·;;·(3;:~··-rO"·PENN'·s:rt.."TEi:·8iii:.\N 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL MIKE AT 272-only 22 years you could be such a stud! ci-ifi1s w. vO"i.i G"cmEss! , sEE vou 
TO STAY DURING FOOTBALL 8573 IN THE NITE OAK AND DIE WITH
272-0291 7585 In fact, hbw can anyone be such a stud
WEEKENDS? TRY THE "IRISH BED & DESIRE TO <>II $%' YOU. AN AD·

j:jfii:;;·ii-·i·~~-;;d..;;··PuFio.uE··ali·~··~~;:;, in only 22 years?BREAKFASr--LOCATED 2 i·~~~;;·4·G";;:~·;~;..fii~~···c~ii·N;~·~-y·4434 MIRER.
MILES 

FROM N.D. FOR INFORMATION RING WILL PAYI call DAVID x4245 272-n38 ··································· 8"iii:O.N N..wE· PROMISE NOT ro
M~;;;·~~d·D~d~··iirst visit; help me make
................................................................ A"i.:t~·;~~-·si~d· 1-i~k~l.$20 Miami stud PERSONALS Fond Memory 11 4 from the Michigan 
TOUCH YOU LIKE THAT AGAIN, ESPit a good one Nead4 PURDUE tix call 

Ticket $25 Rice Stud Tlckel $20 Call State Roadtrlp2226 John 
IN SDHI XXOO -THE WINE WENCHES 3719 Happy 21st Regis. You've got to do a
WANTED 
Fond memory II 1 from the Michigan ALTHE lA, MY LOVEI Always remember 
shot.

MiAMVAifi'"'FO.RCE TIX F6ii" .SALE­
NEED 2 RICE GA'S JOHN x2039 MARIA-3769 
State Roadtrlp what a special person you arel You'll Cocktail Waitresses Variety of shifts, will The search lor the EVIL WEED never know how much you mean to me!
N.iiiio..MiA'i.i'i..oii...Aifi..j;Cifici..sru: work around classes,good money. Apply oE·s;;·iiii:.\rii'l.v'siiii<iNa·3·G";;:s·;;N"i:i 
-r~···;ii ..ih~···~;;;~~iii~i···si:iC"··"F·;;;;t,r;;;;;;
DENT TIX? I HAVE ONE OF EACH, AND 

at Ramada Inn of South Bend. CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED
2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. THEY GO TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERS. Gumby says "Don't be tools, Vote for Chris "Batman" Fransen-Don't forget to ················································· CALL ERIN AT 3757. ANNETIE II 2509 Julesl" and Sally for Freshmen Class leave your batcave to visit your friends
CALL DAVE AT SHENANIGANS Restaurant 
2n-1121 on the outside! Or do you venture out
President and Vice-President. PS:Opportunltlea i ..iiii.Ai:i:v..NEEii:i..4 .. s"T,i;N";:oiio··s:ru: ;;·L.Ei,i;siii.i.Niiii:i·2·:.\iii..;:o·iicii·a;;:s~i only to steal things?
Gumby luvs you.
The Olive Garden Italian Realllurant, CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED
DENT TIX TWO STUDENT TIX FOR STANFORD TIX x4364
with Ita lively aplrll and unique garden CALL DAVE AT SHANANtGANS
PURDUE AND 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR wei:coi:iii..iioi.i·ii··srlio'iiNrs··;;R·o·i.i To my favorite females of 409 Farley! I 
setting, 2n-1121
MY PARENTS WHO ARE COMING IN N'iiE·i:i·G";;:s·4·;;ufii:iuii·&·srANoFO"iio ABROADIII promise I will change my study habits Ia now hiring ALL POSmONS: FOR MY BIRTHDAY. PLEASE HELP ME this week! PromiseI! No more going out.
WILL TRADE MIAMI,AF STU & $. CALL STUDENT GOVERNMENT INVITES YOU ED 289-5605. .............. :t:i.ioio··-riiii.lii.isi-i.iiii ............. . TO A FREE ICE CREAM SOCIAL TUES­
GET MY PRESENTSII!!I!!!II111 CALL Except maybe tonight! . Hoata & Host..... 
JOHN X2163 
DAY SEPTEMBER 20 FROM 3:30-5:00 
. Bartenders N.D. CANDYMiami Ticket (Student)-J. Evans 2165 IN THEODORE'S. BRING YOUR PIC­. Wallara & Wallreasea Need Football Tickets Hate Rice Early!ll Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White

TURES AND REMINESCE! 
. Caahlera Four GA'a or aa many as poaalble Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Sehd check 

NEED ......... ii.Ave."Fiiiii't.ii>s··;.:s-iioio? ......... 
. Dlahwaahersolltlllty for Miami, Penn St., and Air Force to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911

2 AIR FORCE GA'S •••FRESHMEN"'" . Una cooka Call 2114-5280 or 287-n52 anytime SEND THEM A PERSONAL IN STU­S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037.213-741­
let Mom & Dad see the Irish! KELLY 288-lllighten Upl!
. Production & Prep Cooka Thank you so much DENT GOVERN'-'~'• FOREIGN 1338 . 
5737 VOTE 

. Buuera STUDY NEWSLETIER! PUT YOUR TIBERI and HUPP . Paalll Makara N.EEo.sTAN·;:o·iio.ric;(E:rs:·;:;:;~·i3·;;.:~ MESSAGE AND o;o CENTS FOR DEAR YOUNG GIRL: THERE'S MORE
SMC PreS'Vice-Pres
EVERY 20 WORDS IN AN ENVELOPE. THAN 1. -CHIVALRY IIand One Student, or One GA and TwoPlease apply 2pm-4pm, dally, at: DROP IT OFF IN THE STUDENT GOV· 
Student. Anyhow, the three ol them want •••FRESHMEN"•• need 6 PURDUE GA's call Fitz 1563 ERNMENT OFFICES OR AT 427 BP ?'S I DESPERATELY NEED 1 STANDFORD 
to come!! Give MEGAN a call at 25n if !!Lighten Up!! 
The Olive Garden 

·MARY 1383 STUDENT TICKET! OH-AND AN SYR 8410 Grape Road you can help! VOTE 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S II 1086 DATE. CALL EGGROLL AT 1036.
TIBERI and HUPPMlahawaka :r:s;;;;j~..·;;~;~i;;d •.i~..·~~~~ ..~~;;;;~;i;~-~~
N.EEo·4·srliNFofio·a;;·.si;;;~id·~,umni

NE.iio..7 ... i:ii,i;Mi ... -Tic.KETs···i3/i··c;;;.·L.i: 
Call 2389, Chris SMC PreS'Vice-Pres GREGORYfriend. Your support is greatly appreciat­An Equal Opportunity Employer SHARON 2845464 YOU ARE MY GOD! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
ed, call Mike at x2344. Money is littl&tlo .........NEEo.P'uilo'uE..i3.."A::s............. 

•••FRESHMEN'"' TCQconcern!
THE OUVE GARDEN Niiio..i...P'u~s:r·ui:i.iiNr ..rici<E:r..c,i;'L.i: NEED PURDUE G.A.'S !!Lighten Up!! The Accent's On Succeaa 
JOHN 1427 NEED PURDUE G.A.'S VOTE
NEED TWO PURDUE G.A.'S CALL 1 need 8 tlx, and I'm willing to pay TIBERI and HUPP Fond Memory II 9 from the MichiganSHANNON AT 284-4376.

i''NE'ED···1-PUAD·ue··rix··cALL..MA.AY more for seats that are together. They SMC PreS'Vice-Pres State Roadtrlp
N·~-;;d·;;;;~·i~·c;;i~;;;i;~~:oii:·i~~..c;;;~t;;,~ 

muat at least ba In pairs, NO singles. break. Am willing to share expenses. Call 
4072 N~·;.d2·a;.;;·;~;-N"Q.Mi~;;;;ij;;-,;;~:·will pay Four hours of sleep and 24 hours of drink­
John at x2045.
big $$$. Call 284-5666.
Tony at 1089. 


1"'"'"---~---------_,-----------·~~-.~-------~-~---­
Monday, September 19, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
P Olympics have boxing chaos 
' ~ Associated Press A few hours earlier, another ing the likes of West Germany, ' , American boxer, Kelcie Banks France and Italy. 
~ SEOUL, South Korea--U.S. of Chicago, was back at the ath-The United States did save ~ '· ~'I' boxer Anthony Hembrick, near letes village, discharged from some face with a 1-1 tie against i ~ tears as he walked away a loser a hospital where he was treated reigning world champion Ar­
t ~ without throwing a punch, was for a headache of Olympian gentina in the soccer tourna­eliminated from the Olympics proportions. Banks was kept in ment, and there was some ap­Monday after he was late for the hospital overnight after a parent face-saving going on in his fight, compounding first-round knockout by a Greco-Roman wrestling, too. America's sputtering start at Dutchman on Sunday. Banks A wrestler from the Yemen the Seoul Games. was OK but obviously embar-Arab Republic failed to show 
Hembrick, a gold medal rassed. up for a second-round match prospect in the middleweight While Arthur Johnson of Min-against an Israeli wrestler in class, missed the bus after his neapolis made a successful what an Israeli official called coach, Ken Adams, apparently boxing debut in the 112-pound a poltical snub. Neither the misread the schedule. class with a 5-0 decision over YAR wrestler, Abullah Alizani, 
., 

. U.S. divers Michele Mitchell Andrea Mannai of Italy on Sun-nor anyone from his delegation and Wendy Williams won silver day, Banks' Olympic career answered phone calls. and bronze medals Sunday, lasted less than two minutes. Sevdalin Marinov of Bul­and the U.S. basketball and vol-After Banks missed a right garia set a world record in the leyball teams got off to winning hand, Regelio Turr of the Net-snatch and won the 52-kilogram starts. herlands, a native of Surinam (114.4-pound) division in 
But the U.S. team could only whose father was a profes-weightlifting. Marinov lifted be declared a qualified success sional welterweight, smashed 120 kilos (264.5 pounds) in the on the first big day of the Seoul a right counter to his jaw, snatch, breaking the old world Olympics, where the Soviet knocking him out for at least a mark of 119.5 (263.5) set last Union led the parade with the minute in a 125-pound class June by He Zhuogiang of China. first gold medal, in women's bout. Marinov's total winning weight air rifle. Mitchell, the silver medalist was 270 kilos (595 pounds) also 
The second day started in in 10-meter platform diving, including his clean and jerk. calamity. said the American people were Chun Byung-kwan of South 
Hembrick was due to fight a expecting too much of the U.S. Korea won the silver, and He tough South Korean, Ha Jong-team. won the bronze. ho, but when the Fort Bragg, "The American public, I Mitchell, a 26-year-old from N.C., boxer, three-time U.S. think, is really spoiled," she Boca Raton, Fla., made her army middleweight champion, said. "It's like if you don't win, swan dive in Olympic competi­was late, Ha won in a walkover. you've failed. That's wrong, tion, ending her career with the 
"I looked at the schedule, and you know. I'd like to see any of silver. Williams won the 
we were the nth bout from the those couch potatoes come here bronze, and Xu Yanmei of 
top," Adams said, obviously ir-and withstand the pressure." China took the gold. 
ritated. Actually, Hembrick At the same time, U.S. swim-Williams, 21, of Bridgeton, 
was scheduled in the fourth mers, with the exception of Mo. moved into third after 
bout of the morning session. Matt Bion?i and. Janet Evans, Che~ Xiaodan, a 14-year-old 
AP Photo 

When Hembrick finally got to were a dtsappomtment, and Chinese, belly-flopped her last 
Angel Myers, a 17-year-old from Placentia, Calif., gave the United the bus, Adams said it was so even they were beaten in pre-dive, a difficult backward 3lf.z. 
States Its first gold medal of the 1988 Summer Olympics. The 5-5, crowded, he couldn't get on. liminary heats. sommersault. 
95-pounder placed first In the women's 400-meter Individual medley U.S. officials immediately The men's gymnastics team, 
Sunday. filed a protest against hoping for a bronze, wound up "I was getting a little tearyHembrick's elimination. 12th after compulsories, trail-because I figured I was going 




HAPPY GOLDEN BIRTHDAY Happy 
We got one of you! 
The Gang 

to be fourth," Williams said. "Fourth wasn't quite how I wanted to go home. It's terrible to have to sit around and watch and wait for her to open that door for me." 
David Robinson, the 7-foot former Navy center, scored 16 points and led the U.S. basket­ball team to a 97-53 victory over Spain, the team America beat by 31 points to win the 1984 gold medal. 
"I'm never satisfied with defense, but the kids put forth effort and intensity," Coach John Thompson of Georgetown said. "I'm sure once I look at the tapes, I can find a lot of fault and lot of criticism." 

SAIBT IIARY'S COLLEGE 
AMERICA'S NATIONAL STUDENT, YOUTH & BUDGET TRAVEL EXPERTS 

29 E. Delaware 

Evanston, IL 60201 Chicago, IL 60611 
312-475-5070 
831 Foster Street 
312-951-0585

Tuesday 20, 8:30-11 Haggar Parlor St. Mary's 
Out of Illinois: 1-800-545-8999 


---------~----------~---~------------. -~--------------__,_____________ 
page 12 The Observer Monday, September 19, 1988 
Volleyball team loses two in Colorado tourney 
~~w~~~g~~~M~~~:M.~fu~~~~~.~t=~=~~in~fu=e~u~~~o~m~i=n=g~w~e~e=k~·----------------------,
their attack. The Irish offense With 19:34 left in the second ~ tallied 21 shots in the effort. half, the skies finany produced TECHNICAl. PEN SAVINGS PI.US ~ srAEDTLER 
"we finally figured out the the rain that had been threat-liiiiiii~~F:~E SCHOOl. SUPPI.IES 18rSI~~~~700
combinations that helped us ening throughout the match. u win," said freshman striker The 
game was suspended due Susie Zilvitis. "We were really to the ensuing thunder picking up our heads and con-showers, but the women Get this FREE Value Pack of Staedtler school trolling the game." returned to the field after about supplies and reuseable CacheCase worth $12,
Notre Dame opened the 20 minutes and continued the 
when you buy a specially-priced Marsmatic 
scoring at 21:49 of the first half game, despite the bad weather. with a goal by senior Kathleen 
technical pen set with 7pens plus ink. Available Birmingham. 
now at your college store.
Several minutes later, at 23:26, Zilvitis' head-on shot handily beat Bronco keeper Susan Blackmer, raising the score to 2-0 and leaving the Irish dominating and ahead at the half. 
Zivitis started out the second half for Notre Dame with an unassisted goal off a beautiful run down the right touchline. The goal, at 50:06, was her By GREG Notre Dame team. Colorado and 16 digs from the back row. SCHECKENBACH State was led by All-America Haas used her 6-3 frame to hit 
setter Cindy Cox-Bellin and 10 kills for the Rams. Colorado Sports Writer State was the eventual tourna­
The Notre Dame volleyball ment runner-up, losing to Cal­team concluded a two-match Poly San Luis Obispo in the stit in the Holiday In­championship game. M.Jniversity Park Classic with Senior Mary Kay Waller led two disappointing losses to the Irish attack with 14 kills in Colorado State and Houston. 36 attempts. Fellow senior 
Notre Dame opened up the Zanette Bennett added 12 kills, four-team tournament Friday while leading the team with 10 night against Colorado State, blocking assists. the No. 13 team in the nation, Strong performances also on the Rams' home court. Al­were turned in by junior hitter though the Irish played fairly Kathy Cunningham and fresh­well, they lost in four games man setter Julie Bremner. Cun­15-10, 16-18, 15-9, 15-12. ningham was very impressive 
Colorado State outplayed the with 14 digs and eight kills. Irish from the opening serve, Bremner, consistent through­giving them fits throughout the out the match, recorded 37 as­match. Although the Irish had sists, 17 digs and nine block a more experienced team, the assists, which is very unusual Rams were too talented for the from the setter position. 
Women's soccer downs W. Mich. 
By COLLEEN  sixth of the season, making her  "It's hard to stop the game  
HENNESSEY  the team's leading scorer.  and then restart with the same  
Sports Writer  "It's  been  a  good scoring  intensity," explained Zilvitis.  
The  Notre  Dame  women's  year for me so far," said Zil­ "I think we can finally say that  
soccer team raised its record  vitis. "But it is really a team  we're starting to achieve real  
to 3-2 this weekend with a win  effort. The only reason I can  team unity, though, and that  
over Western Michigan on Sun­day at Moose Krause Stadium.  score is because they are be­hind me."  helps a lot." The return to the field  saw  
The Irish looked confident in  The fourth goal for the Irish  no  new  scoring  activity,  
the  5-0  shutout,  holding  the  came  at  55:26,  when  junior  however, as Western Michigan  
Broncos to only two or three  midfielder  K.T.  Sullivan  held off the Irish offense but  
shots in the game.  knocked the ball in the net off  could mount no comeback of its  
Notre Dame came  into the  a  Zilvitis  assist.  Sophomore  own.  
match having been shut out in  Bernie Holland finished out the  Notre  Dame  returns  to  
their last two games, and as  scoring with an unassisted goal  Moose Krause Stadium three  



· ·. , I 9 8 8 o 1 9 8 9 
VOLUNTEERS FOR THE HOMELESS CLUB 1ST ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
PAST VOLUNTEERS ENCOURAGED EVERYONE WELCOME 
presents ROOTS First episode: Wednesday, Sept. 21 Hesburgh Library Auditorium
TUESDAY, Sept 20, 7 p.m. 
7:00 p.m. and 9:15 p.m.

At the Center for Social Concerns 
Remaining episodes: 

Wednesday Sept. 28; Oct. 5, 12, 26; and Nov. 2 
Questions call 

tickets available to students, faculty, and staff at the GSU Office (307 Kelly McGoldrick • 2812 
Lafortune) or at the door ADMISSION: $1.50 (per episode) or $4.00(aUftve showings)
Steve Raymond ~ 1724 
•. 


Happy 

Birthday, Stephanie Thomas! 
The Irish went up against pe­rennial power Houston on Sat­urday night. Once again, Notre 

Kathy Cunningham 
Dame struggled and lost to Houston in four games 15-4, 15­17, 15-7, 15-12. Irish head coach Art Lambert changed his strat­egy by playing many younger players with very little or no experience. Freshman Jennifer Slosar and Sophomore Colleen Wagner each played four games, while career kill leader Zanette Bennett played only 
one game. 
Cunningham and Wagner led the Irish with 11 and 10 kills respectively. Senior Mauree~ Shea stopped the Houston hit­ters with six blocks, while Wal­
ler added five blocks. 
"As we have all season, we beat ourselves," said Cunnin­gham. "Our serve receive was our weakness against both Colorado State and Houston." 
Notre Dame next goes up against Purdue on Sept. 21 in West Lafayette, Ind. 

U N I V E R 5 I T Y 0 F N 0 T R t-· _D. A M E 

~--------------~------------------~­
----~------------­
Monday, September 19, 1988 

The Observer 1 File Photo 
Junior captain Allee Lohrer Is one of the players that Irish women's tennis coach Michele Gelfman Is hoping can provide the upperclass leadership to a squad dominated by freshmen and sophomores. Lohrer currently Is nursing an Injury and missed the Bowling Green match. 
THE THOMAS J. 
WS~tA~~~fiK 
GOVERNMENT_
----'='---' 
Notre Dame Law School presents a lecture by Professor Donald H. J. Hermann Director, Health Law Institute DePaul University College of Law 
on "Stemming the Transmission of Aids" 
Thursday, Sept. 22 Noon Room 220 Law School Courtroom · 
The Observer page 13 
Irish throttle Bowling Green 
Young women's tennis squad has difficult spring slate 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
If last Friday's play is an in­dication of things to come, the Notre Dame women's tennis team could be in for a success­ful season. The Irish not only humbled Bowling Green Uni-· versity by an 8-1 margin, but did so in straight sets during all eight victories. 
This particular match reflected the aspirations of Co­ach Micele Gelfman regarding the team's level of play. 
"We receiveed strong play from everyone (in singles play) and it gave everyone a chance to play in the doubles competi­tion," said Gelfman. 
Aside from clearing the bench, the Bowling Green match enabled Gelfman to see other positive characteristics of her team. With a relatively young and inexperienced squad, the domination of the opponent allowed the team to gain confidence in themselves in what could prove to be one of the most competitive seasons to date. 
In sin~les play top-seeded Ce Ce Cahtll, defeated Carla Mar-shack, 6-3, 6-0. This straight set victory set the stage for five more straight set victories. Second-seeded Katy Clark, playing in her first collegiate match, downed Nannette Zim­merman, 6-2, 6-2. Tracy Bar­ton, the third seed, defeated BrendaCooley,6-3,6-3.Atnum­ber four, Kritin Doran thrashed Kelly King, 6-1, 6-0. Kim

:••••••••••••••••••+ SMC soccer 
+ MARKETING POSITIONS t tops Findlay 
+ OPEN FOR + 
• • By MOLLY MCNEILL
• 5 GRADUATE STUDENTS+ SportsWriter 
Pacella , the fifth seed, dis­posed of Cara Whelan, 6-1, 6-3. At number six, Ann Bradshaw a freshman from Indianapolis, Ind, defeated Tisa Pacella, 6-2, 6-0. 
The singles domination en­sured an Irish victory, allowing Gelfman to let the top three doubles teams rest and give the number four, five and six teams a chance to display their talents. 

Natalie Illig 
Regularly the number-four team, Cathy Bradshaw and Natalie Illig moved up to number-one slot and defeated Marshack and Zimmerman, 7­5, 6-3. The number-two tandem of Tyler Musleh and Anne­Marie Dega defeated Cooley and King, 6-4, 6-3. The only loss of the match came at the number-three slot when Pat O'Bryne and Rese Kelly fell to Whelan and Pacella, 3-6, 4-6. 
Gelfman was pleased with her team's play and though it would serve as effective expe­rience heading into a difficult 
: GOOD PAY : 

+HOURS WORKED AROUND YOUR t : SCHEDULE : + CALL (CAR NEEDED) + 
: 277-4469 : 
Careers in 
• Accounting

Baxter 
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales



Come Talk to Us 
• 
Marketing 

• 
Operations 



Monday, September 19th La Fortune Student Center-Foster Room I 8:00-9:00 PM Sponsored by Marketing CU> 
I 
Tuesday, September 20th Athletic and Convocation Center-Monogram Room 6:00 to 1 0:00 PM Sponsored by Finance CU> 
* * Events Open to aD Students * * On Campus Interviewing October 27-28th 
Invitational Sign-up Deadline September 19-20th 


spring schedule. 
"To stay competitive, we have to stay over .500 the entire season/'-said Gelfman. "We have upgraded and intensified our schedule, which will make it that much more difficult." 
Included in the Irish schedule are three teams in the Top 20 and possibly more, depending upon whom the Irish square off with in upcoming tournaments. 
"We must start to peak in January and continue to play at a high level of play until April", said Gelfman. "It is very diffi­cult to do this for an extremely long period of time." 
The Irish players are an ex­tremely young team on paper, but this may not be the case in reality. Although the team mostly consists of sophomore and freshmen, Gelfman sees no reason to worry. She points to junior captain Alice Lohrer and senior Natalie Illig for the team's source of leadership. 
"Although Alice is out with a back injury, I expect her to be hitting in a week or two." said Gelfman. "Natalie, a four-year starter, brings maturity to our team. 
Gelfman is confident that the youth on the team will act as positive force with respect to the development of the team. 
"The freshman are all very good tournament players and have been playing since they were nine years old," said Gelfman. "What they need to learn is to win for the team and not themselves and experience will solve that problem. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team has increased its perfect record to 4-0 following an 11-0 waxing of Findlay College. 
Findlay showed up with only nine players, so the game was played with a nine-on-nine sit­uation on the field. 
The Belles came on strong, scoring their first goal only three minutes into the game . 
Highlighting the Belles' ag­gressive attack was the "South Bend Connection" of Tricia Troester and Terese Martinov. 
The two connected for two goals apiece and two assists and contributed plenty of the Belles' 39 total shots. 
"I am very happy about the fact that we dominated the en­tire game, on defense and equally as well on offense," said Belles coach Tom Van Me­ter. "Our girls had a chance to play other positions and every­one adjusted quite well. It was a total team victory." The Belles hope to continue their winning ways when they face Purdue this Saturday at home. 


------------------~---------~ 
The Observer 

Defense 
continued from page 16 
Stonebreaker. "We had them scouted well and were ready for what they would try to do." 
Linemen Jeff Alm (six tackles), Chris Zorich and Wil­liams (five each) controlled the line to Ezor, who romped for 196 yards against Rutgers last week, to just 70 yards on 22 carries. 
With Brooks getting more and more comfortable in the fullback slot, the Irish went full throttle with the option and took their first drive of the second half 71 yards in six plays for their first touchdown 
from scrimmage on the season. From the wishbone, Rice
With Tony Alee (9) directing the option, the Irish 
ran for more yards against Michigan State than 
scampered in from eight yards 
anyone since Army In the 1984 Cherry Bowl. 
out on an option keeper to give
during the entire second half. yards on the average, we aren't 
Notre Dame a 13-3 lead withRice completed just two passes going to be happy." 
10: 24 remaining in the third
(both screens) throughout the Brooks indicated Irish fans 
period.

Irish 
game, and despite the success have yet to see the best of Tony 
"You just have to take ad­
continued from page 16 
of the runnning game, the Irish Rice the passer in what was a 
vantage of the openings," said Brooks up the middle and also continued to stress the impor­very happy Notre Dame locker Rice, who carried nine timesrunning the occasional keeper, tance of a successful passing room. 
for 64 yards and had a 34-yard
the Irish finished with 245 yards -attack. "It's just that Tony Rice is scamper called back due torushing on 54 carries. "We can't win unless we predominantly a running quar­holding. "Their defense wasMichigan State's defense, throw the ball," said Holtz. "I terback, but he's got a great overflowing to the outside a lot, first in the nation against the know that and you know that, arm." said Brooks. "In the fu­so I just took advantage of that run last year, had not given up but our players don't know ture, he'll surprise a lot of to run the ball. Our offensivethat many rushing yards in a that. Until we can pass for 215 people." 
line did a great job." 
The Observer I John Studebaker 
Ready to block In the picture are Ryan Mihalko (35), Mike Heldt (55) and Tim Ryan (52). 

game since Army ran for 256 yards on 71 carries in the 1984 Cherry Bowl. 
"Notre Dame is the best op­tion team we have faced," said Spartan coach George Perles. "They_ran the ball well, pitched the ball well. A lot of times when they pitch the ball that much they have some turn­overs. They didn't. They got a lead where they could play ball control. It was great execu­tion." 
Of course, 'the fact nobody else had been able to run on Michigan State did not bother the Irish. 
"We knew that we could do it," said Green, who finished with a game-high 125 yards on 21 carries. "It's just a matter of executing, being patient and making the right blocks. 
"I think we just came out and knew what we had to do," con­tinued Green, referring to the running game's emergence in the second half. "We were just getting into a rhythm. The lanes opened up, the option opened up, they'd have to respect that and then we'd put it inside and get three or four (yards)." 
If Notre Dame's success on the ground did not surprise Green, it certainly was not anything expected by the Spar­tans. 
"Tony Rice did a fantastic job of running the option, and it seemed to be working," said Michigan State free safety John Miller, who was in on 14 tackles for the Spartans. "I didn't think 
, they'd run the option so much. They executed well, and I've got to give them all the credit they deserve." So dominant was the Irish running game that Notre Dame attempted only two passes 

If)aire!;Uirll to drinkand dri\e at least let the rest of us knw: 

Reader's Digest 
We are pleased to announce that the following 1987-88 graduates of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College have recently started a consulting career with our firm. 
Monday, September 19, 1988 
Forced to resort to the air, Michigan State's Bobby McCallister found little room to operate and found himself either in the grasp of Irish defenders or underthrowing the ball under pressure. One of those underthrown balls came down in the hands of Stonebreaker, who legged out the 39 yards between him and the end zone for day's final tal­ly. 
Ho, who lost an opportunity to go 7-of-7 for the season when the snap went right through the hands of holder Pete Graham on the first play of the fourth period, capped off the scoring with the extra point, giving the Irish the final 20-3 margin. 
EXTRA POINTS--The initial prognosis on injured fullbacks Braxston Banks and Anthony Johnson has Banks out four to eight weeks with torn liga­ments in his knee and Johnson questionable for the upcoming Purdue game with a resprained ankle. 
+
Am.erican 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
CHICAGO CONSULTING 
Thomas B. Christel 
MBA Fmance!Marketing 
Paul T. Cottey 
BS Finance 
Thomes A. Cranley 
MBA Finance 
James M. Daniels 
MBA Fmance!Marketmg 
Karen A. Dettling 
BA Psychology!CA PP 
Patricia M. FreH 
MBA Fmance!Marketmg 
MaryS. Godi 
BA Econom1cs1Busmess 
Christopher M. Grandpre 
BBA Fmance 
Edward J. Kirchmier 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
J. Scott Laughner 
MBA Busmess Admm1strat10n 
Marta A. McKay 
MBA Finance 
W. Daniel Michelini 
BA Economics!ALPA 
Mary E. O'Neill 
BS Electrical Engmeenng 
David J. Piotrowski 
MBA Fmancel/nternat10nal Busmess 
Anthony V. Ragunas BBA Fmance 
Robert A. Schneider 
MBA Finance 
Teresa A. Sheppard 
BS Chemical Engineenng 
Christopher S. Skorcz 
BA Econom1cs1English 
J. Chad Smith 
BBA Fmance 
Gregory L. Tatum 
BS Mechamcal Engmeenng 
Ann E. Troester 
BA Psychology/PhilOsophy 
Nancy A. Wehner 
BBA Fmance!Engllsh 
Peter A. Welsh 
BBA Fmance 
James J. Wimbiscus 
BA EconomiCSIALPA 
Thomas A. Yemc 
BBA Fmance 
CHICAGO WORLD HEADQUARTERS Technical Services Organization 
Suzanne M. Bare 
BA Math 
Peter S. Carpenter 
MS Electr~cal Engmeer~ng 
Anthony D. Checkal 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
Brian J. Curcio 
BS Efectncal Engmeenng 
Anne M. Dugan 
BA Math 
Mary C. Feldman 
BA Math 
Richard J. Gascoyne 
BS Aerospace Engmeenng 
Paul I. Kohl 
BS Electncaf Engmeenng 
Scott A. Kriscovich 
BS Electncal Engmeermg 
Lisa M. Macalka 
BS Math 
Palricia M. Pieronek 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
Linda J. Plonski 
BS Electncal Engmeenngl 
Computer Sc1ence 
Creighton S. Warren 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
David Zoretic 
BA Electncal Engmeermgl 
Computer Sc1ence 

CHICAGO WORLD HEADQUARTERS fntormation System Services 
Joan M. Murphy 
BS Math/CAPP 
Lisa M. Waldvogel 
BA Math 
ATLANTA CONSULTING 
Daniel M. BiseH 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
BOSTON CONSULTING 
Steven A. Sley 
BS Electr~cal Enflmeenng 
COLUMBUS CONSULTING 
Michael S. Sweeney 
BS Chem1cal Engmeenng 
DETROIT CONSULTING 
Terrence M. Lamb 
BS Aerospace Eng1neenng NEW YORK CONSULTING 
Michael R. Fagan 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
Robert A. Lofaro 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
Mary K. Shannon 
BA Econom1cs ORANGE COUNTY CONSULTING James P. Behling 
BS Mechamcal Eng1neenng 
PHILADELPHIA CONSULTING 
Jeffrey M. Crasl<ey 
BS Mechamcal Engmeenng 
PITTSBURGH CONSULTING 
Leslie A. LaChapelle 
BBA F1nance 
ROCHESTER CONSULTING 
Katherine M. Mather 
BBA Fmance 
SAN FRANCISCO CONSULTING 
Scoff R. Inglis 
BA Econom1cs 
Roger D. Miller 
MBA Fmance STAMFORD CONSULTING 
Jill T. Lennert 
BS Electncal Engmeenng 
James R. Mahon 
BS Pre-Proless1onal Sc1ence WASHINGTON. D.C. CONSULTING 
Michelle E. Bolger 
BBA Management!MIS 
Gerard J. Grealish 
BS Aerospace Engmeenng 

Campus Presentation September 27, 1988 Moms Inn 7.00-9.·00 p m. Campus Interviews October 5, 1988 Placemenl Off1ce 8.30-5:00 p.m. 
Please contact your placement office for details. 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
~ 

33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) 580-Q033 


Monday, September 19, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
• 

CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
.7:00p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a 
reception for all Accountancy and Finance seniors 
interested in discovering career opportunities with 
Salomon Brothers, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
6:00 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all Business and ALP A seniors interested in discovering career opportunities with Black and Decker, Upper Lounge, University Club. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film "I Confess," Annenberg Auditorium. 
8:00 p.m. Meeting of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, St. Edward's Hall chapel. 
9:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film "The Little Foxes," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Voter Registration will be held in the Dining Halls and LaFortune Student Center from Tuesday to Thursday this week. Students are eligible to register as residents of St. Joseph County. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
8:15 p.m. Visiting Scholar Series Lecture sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, "Falling in Love Again: Children and Families in America," by Representative Dan Coats, (R) Indiana, Hayes-Healy 
uditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Speidano Romano Baked Sole Baked Ziti Roast Pork 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
WC'~ IIGIII?P 1JII1T 1Hiii?E !/KG ~Kf'ef?ltff€~ 601'* OV IN Tlf/5 htJ(/.f€ Wlf/CH INVO/..V€ liN IINft'ltll/.. /J€1/V& 
~{1 t£55 THill'/ 
UJVIN&/..Y 
I 
The Misadventures of Buzz McFiattop Saint Mary's 
Veal Madeline Baked Cod Spinach & Cheese Souffle Deli Bar 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Michael F. Muldoon 

"Oh, good heavens, no, Gladys -not for me. ... I ate my young just an hour ago." 

49 Insolent retort 53 Aroma of flowers 54 Curse or 
pledge 55 Augury 56 British river 57 Word with cap 
or bone 58 State bird of 
Hawaii 59 Lesions 60 Put in the mail 61 Ample, to 
FitzGerald 
DOWN 
I Thwart 2 Medicinal 
plant 3 Flatten a flat 4 One overly 
concerned 
with details 5 Large ship 6 Author Jong 7 Hoodlum 8 Golf gadget 9 A 1927 hit 

25 Suffragette 34 To be, to Brutus 46 Spitfire or song dollars: Abbr. 37 Bo of films Zero10 Large 26 Beach toy 39 Ball of yarn 47 Belonging to a antelope 27 Beige 40 Protected the cereal classII Leave out 28 Tempted plants 49 Nemesis12 Hermit 
30 Propelled a 41 Area once 50 Verily13 Suffixes with bireme covered by 51 Comedian Jay
.tip and tap 

31 Sidewalk Red Smith 21 Lockupsinthe section 43 Quarrels 52 "If Y.ou -,­
Navy 32 Whence a flu 44 Explosive, for Susie ... 

22 Magical baton flew in short 54 Gives 24 Toys man 33 British gun 45 Mod!fy approval 
ACROSS 
I Farm structure 5 Oct. predecessor 
9 Staggers 14 Jai­15 -blue 
(loyal) 16 Apportion I 7 Bewildered 18 One, in Berlin 19 Down-easter's 
state 20 Restrain 22 Speculate 23"-la 
Douce" 24 Wood smoothers 
25 Coined money 
28 Wood or Turner 29 Person's 
experience 31 -thejoint 35 Buenos-, 
Arg. 36 Garfunkel or Linkletter 37 Cleans the 
furnituJe 38 Affront 39 Dairies 41 Winter vehicle 42 Suave 43 Broke 
suddenly 47 Bullring cries 48 Headrest 

SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 


• 
Sports 
page 16

Monday, September 19, 1988 
Irish explode in 2nd half to trounce MSU 
ND uses all the right options as Spartans remain winless 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 

EAST LANSING, Mich.--If at first you don't succeed, try, try, r then run the option. That's the way Notre Dame ran its record to 2-0 Saturday with a convincing 20-3 win over Michigan State. 
Mter managing to secure a 6-3 lead at halfime on two Reggie Ho field goals, the Irish used a punishing second-half running attack and a tenacious defense to hold on to the ball, the lead and their early-season momentum. 
With Tony Brooks (11 carries, 66 yards) filling the fullback slot and Mark Green (21 carries, 125 yards) taking the pitch outside, Irish quarterback Tony Rice directed the option to march Notre Dame down the field in the second half against the Spartans, who led the nation in rush defense last season. 
"I felt Tony (Rice) handled the option real well," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "We hadn't been able to make the power game go so we had to go to the option in the second half more than we wanted to. We think we're gonna break some things on people." 
Any concerns that this inexperienced offensive line couldn't hold its own was washed away by Notre Dame's 245 yards rushing, 195 in the second half. 
The Observer I John Studebaker

"It's been a long time since someone has gained that many .. , Dame broke the game open In the second half
yards on us " said Michigan State head coach George Perles Raghlb Rocket Ismail (25) blocks a second­"They got a 'tead where they could play ball control. It was great quarter punt by Michigan State's Josh Butland to after leading just 6-3 at halftime. execution." set up Notre Dame's go-ahead field goal. Notre 
Michigan State jumped out with a 3-0 lead on 39-yard field goal I • h • • • t II S 
by John Langeloh following a Rice interception on the first series rl s 0 v e reome InJune s 0 ru n a 0 v e r tate 
of the game. Penalties and George Williams' mauling of MSU tailback Blake Ezor on a key 3rd-and-10 kept the Spartans out of By STEVE MEGARGEE Okla.,respondedtohisfullback good and go back into the the end zone. Despite good field position in the opening frame the Assistant Sports Editor assignment by running for 66 game. Spartans could muster only one other scoring threat, which ended yards on 11 carries, including "My notetaking skill~ at with a 29-yard Langeloh field-goal attempt on State's second drive EAST LANSING, Mich. --It a 37-yard streak in the third Notre Dame really helped," which hooked left. did not take long for Tony quarter that set up Notre Brooks laughed. 
Mter losing fullbacks Anthony Johnson and Braxston Banks to Brooks to realize that his role Dame's first touchdown from While Brooks found success injuries in the first series of the game, it took a while for the Irish as second-team tailback, at scrimmage all season. running the ball up the middle, running game to gel. Twice the Irish knocked on the door in the least for this day, was over. But as much as Brooks was the Irish were even better when second quarter but could come away with two Ho field goals, the In Notre Dame's first offen-running up and down the field, they surprised the heralded second set up by Raghib "Rocket" Ismail's block of a Josh Rutland sive series, starting fullback he spent just as much time Spartan defense with the option punt on the Spartan 19. Braxston Banks and second-going to the sideline and back game. 
Led by Mike Stonebreaker's 10 tackles (seven unassisted), the team fullback Anthony Johnson to find out from running backs After gaining 11 yards on 10 Irish defense would bend but never break for the rest of the af-were knocked out of the game coach Jim Strong just what he carries in the first quarter, the ternoon. Weakened by the suspension of senior offensive tackle with injuries. Enter Mr. was supposed to do at fullback. Notre Dame running game Tony Mandarich, the Spartans were forced to run over the right Brooks. "The coach (Strong) was hoi-took control. With quarterback 
. "Brooks hadn't even lined up lering the signals, I was writing Tony Rice pitching the ball to Side most of the day and would fool no one. at fullback in practice--ever " them down as he hollered them tailback Mark Green sending "The coaches had our coverage set up real well," said said Irish coach Lou Holtz. ' out to me," said Brooks. "I'd ' see DEFENSE, page 14 The sophomore from Tulsa, go out, get the plan in iny head see IRISH, page 14 
Soccer team still undefeated 
Irish cruise past Mich. St., Dayton in weekend twinbill 
By PETE GEGEN Morris started the Irish them up to. We should have Sports Writer scoring spree three minutes four shutouts, and we don't--we later with the first of his two have one. They have to learn 
Notre Dame played near­goals in the half. Left alone in that shutouts are just as impor­perfect soccer this weekend, the right corner, Morris tant as winning." pounding Michigan State 5-0 dribbled out and beat Dayton and Dayton 5-1, to extend its keeper John Dearlove on the The wins increase Notre unbeaten string to seven near side. Dame's record to 6-0-1 overall games. Tom Connaghan put the Irish and 3-0 in the Midwestern Col­
The Irish played their best up 2-1 with a rifle shot into the legiate Conference. soccer of tye year Friday at far high corner from the East Lansing, rolling to a 4-0 perimeter of the penalty area. IRISH ITEMS--Michigan State halftime lead on goals by He called for the pass from Pat head coach Joe Baum, who also Danny Stebbins, Joe Sternberg, Murphy, who was looking to happens to be the Great Lakes John Guignon and Bruce cross, but dropped it back to Region representative to the "Tiger" McCourt. Randy Mor­Connaghan. NCAA tournament recommen­ris added a second-half goal to With 30 seconds left in the dation committee, was im­finish the scoring. half, Morris outraced the pressed with Notre Dame. "He 
Notre Dame's offense also defense, dribbled around Dear­came into the locker room after was in gear Sunday at Krause love and hit the open net. the game and said, 'You get my Stadium, but it was Dayton who Sternberg and Danny Steb­vote.'," said Grace, "and that scored the game's first goal. bins added goals off crosses in meant a lot to us.'· ... For the 
Mter Irish keeper Danny the second half. first time in 50 games junior Lyons' misplayed a long pass, While the offense continues midfielder Rolfe Behrje did not Anthony Casale picked up the to perk along at a clip of more start for the Irish. "He's in a loose ball and scored at 23:29 than three goals a game, the little bit of a rut, but hopefully 
. to give the Flyers an early lead Irish defense continues to he'll get himself out of it," sa1a and to raise the ire of Irish head spring holes. Grace... Midfielder Steve coach Dennis Grace. LaVigne did not play this 
"We've started behind in "I'm still concerned about weekend because of a strained 
The Observer I Rob 

quite a few games the last two our team defense," said Grace. achilles tendon. His status isJohn Guignon (4) and the Notre Dame soccer team had an easy years," he said. "I don't know "Mter seven games we have day to day. Starting in place oftime of It this weekend, recording big victories over Michigan State what has to happen for them to only one shutout. I'm disap­Behrje and LaVigne Sundayon Friday and Dayton on Sunday. Guignon scored a goal In the absolutely play to their poten­pointed about giving up goals were Connaghan and freshman Michigan State game. 
tial for 90 minutes." to teams we shouldn't give Mitch Kern. 






