_ _ Sunny, windy and cold
~A=C=~=E=N=T=··=D~=r=m==o=f=th=~=W=~~k============~'~LJ.:~-­-'Q---~H~ur~ric~ane-e-nd-s~today. High in the 40s and a . .d low in the 20s. Mostly sunny 
IVIEWPOINT: E I ect1ng a new pres1 ent :,n~o~~;~~sonablycold 

VOL. XXII, NO. 39 
the independent ne~spaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Accusations fly in Hiler, Ward debate 

Associated Press 
ELKHART, Ind. -Rep. John Hiler accused Democratic challenger Thomas Ward of "savaging" the Hiler family in political ads, and Ward called Hiler a man who doesn't back up his promises to voters. 
The comments came Mon­day night in the second televised debate between the candidates for the 3rd District 
congressional seat. 
Ward and Hiler discussed taxes, jobs, defense and the en­vironment in the hour-long debate sponsored by the Elkhart County League of Wo­men voters and broadcast by WSJV-TV. 
The controlled anger that marked the first debate Oct. 17 was in evidence again. "Some folks probably think they tuned in early to the Bears' game," said Hiler, referring the televised NFL contest between the Chicago Bears and the San Francisco 49ers that followed. 
Ward attacked Hiler's record on the environment, saying the family-owned iron foundry in LaPorte had dumped sand con­taining iron tailings on wet­lands crucial to wildlife. 
"You don't know what the en­vironment is," said Ward, who 


Tropical 
Associated Press 

GUATEMALA CITY ­Guatemala and El Salvador were under states of alert Mon­day as Tropical Storm Miriam whirled offshore, and other Latin American countries devastated by the storm struggled to aid victims. 
has used the incident in cam­
paign advertising. "You're 
more concerned about the prof­
its of polluters." 

Hiler said state tests showed the sand contained no hazar­dous materials and was removed immediately in ::~ cleanup that won praise from the Department of Natural Re­sources. "I've listened to you savage my family, Tom Ward, and I tell you what, you're dead wrong," he said. 
On taxes, Ward said he would raise the amount paid by the wealthiest individuals and cor­porations, but Hiler said, "I will not vote to raise taxes." 
Ward contended Hiler sup­ported a tax increase earlier this year when he approved raising the premium for Medicare health coverage for the elderly. "Why is it you make these promises when you know you can't keep them?" asked Ward. 
Hiler renewed a fight from the last debate over campaign contributions from special in­terest groups. The congress­man produced a check for $218,051, which he said was the 
amount his campaign had Fall flooding The Observer/John Studebaker received in such contributions. An umbrella recieves a well-deserved rest on the second floor of
He said he would return the money if Ward would do Pangborn Hall yesterday as the weather provided a vigorous workout. likewise. 
Hurricane Joan left at least 111 people dead in five countries over the past week and ripped across Nicaragua from the Atlantic coast to the Pacific before it was downgraded to a tropical storm and renamed Miriam. 
Forecasters had feared the storm would regain strength and become a hurricane again as it reached the warm waters of the Pacific, but they said Monday that it was sticking too close to the coast to gather force. 

The known death toll from the weeklong storm was 50 people in Nicaragua over the 

The ObserverI John Studebaker 
Mike Paese,left, and Tom Doyle, right, student body proceedings of last night's Student Senate meeting. vice president and president respectively, direct the See related story at right. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1988 
Photos of hostages found in Italy 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT, Lebanon -Islamic Jihad, a pro-Iranian group holding two U.S. hostages, said Monday it was not linked to the Lebanese woman arrested in Italy with photographs of cap­tive Americans. 
The group claimed the wo­man, Aline Ibrahim Rizkall~h, 36, had ties to Israel's secret service. Three Islamic Jihad challenged Italian authorities to publish a photograph of American hostage Terry An­derson that was found in the woman's luggage at Milan air­port last Thursday. 
"What has been said about the presence of a photograph of captive Anderson is sheer fabrication and is absolutely devoid of truth," Islamic Jihad said in a typewritten Arabic­language statement delivered to a Western news agency in Beirut. 
The 15-line communique was delivered with an photograph of Anderson to authenticate it. 
The kidnappers apparently did not know that authorities in Milan had already released a 
copy of the photograph of An­derson that was discovered in 
see HOST AGE, page 6 

storm threatens El Salvador, Guatemala 
weekend, 21 in "Costa Rica, four in Panama, 25 in Colombia and 11 in Venezuela. The storm af­fected all Central American countries except tiny Belize and left-hundreds of thousands of people homeless. 
At 4 p.m. EDT monday, Miriam's center was near latitude 14.2 north, longitude 
92.7 west, or about 150 miles west-southwest of Guatemala City, according to the National_ Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla. It said the storrril had maximum sustained winds of 55 mph and was moving west-northwest at about 10 mph. 

Student Senate urged to serve student needs 
By FLORENTINE 
HOELKER 
News Staff 
The Student Senate suspended its normal agenda this week to brainstorm on ways that they might improve service to the student body. 
Student Body President Tom Doyle expressed concern over the fact that the Senate has not been as productive as hoped, and opened discussion on ways the senate might improve. "Perhaps Student Senate at this point hasn't brought up points itshould be addressing,'' Doyle said. 

"There may be many reasons, but perhaps the main one is that you are doing so well in your other positions," he said, referring to those mem­bers of the senate holding pos­itions like class and dorm pres­ident. 
The senate also discussed the early closing of the 24-hour lounge in the. Oak R'oom. Due to low attendance, the lounge reported a loss of nearly $1000. 
Student telephone directories are completed, and the senate plans to distribute them in the near future. 
Among the suggestions from the membership were subcom­mittees composed of a senator, a class president, and a hall 
see SENATE, page 4 

page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Professor James Seckinger of the Notre Dame Law Schooi has been elected to the board of directors of the American Judicatore Society, a 20,000 member organi­zation working to improve the U.S. Justice system. A 1968 alumnus of the Law School, Seckinger has been a member of the school's faculty since 1974. He is also director of the National Institute for Trial Advocacy, which seeks to improve the quality of American courtroom law by offer­ing attorneys specialized training. -The Observer 
Patrick Mullen, a Civil Engineering Graduate Student, has been selected to receive a Nation Science Foundation graduate fellowship. Mullen was born in Nurnberg, West Germany and raised in Vicenza, Italy where his father, a Notre Dame alumnus, works on aU.S. Military base. He began his undergraduate studie~ at Notr~ ~arne. in 1~82. He received bachelor's degrees m both ctvtl engmeermg and government and international studies in 1987. In .his fifth year at Notre Dame, Mullen was named a Reilly Scholar, an honor given to outstanding arts and let­ters/engineering students. -The Observer 

OF INTEREST 
Deans and Admissions Officers representing more than '50 law schools meet today in Stepan Center. All are welcome to attend the Law School Caravan from noon to 4 p.m. -The Observer 
:•wanderlust," an exhibit of photographs taken in 
Asian, African, and Arctic settings, opened Oct. 23 at the 
Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The College of Engineering is sponsoring an all expense paid trip for Minority Engineering Students and Freshmen intents on Oct. 27 and 28 to the General Motors Plant in Flint, Michigan. Sign up in Room 118 Cushing Hall or call 239-6092. -The Observer 
Race Judicata a three mile fun runwalk to benefit the Legal Aid and Defender Assodation will be held on the ND Campus this Saturday at 10 a.m. A small donation is required. Register in B-12 Law School or call239-7795. -The Observer 
Northern Ireland Seminar applications are available this week at the Center for Social Concerns. The Program is a one credit course and involves a 10 day trip to Ireland over Spring Break. Application deadline is Nov. 1. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
. We want to know! 

If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

Design Editor .................. Alison Cocks Viewpoint Layout.................. Moira Fox Design Assistant ...... ....... Beth Peterson Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle Typesetters . .. . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tim Kiefer Accent Designer.......... Annette Rowland ............................................. Mike Kolar Photographer .............. John Studebaker News Editor ....................... Sara Marley Ads Designer .................... Jeff Stelmach Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey 
Tile Olllener (USPS 599 2-<4000) is published Monday throu1h Friday except durins cum and vacation periods. Tile O!Mener is published bY the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purc:bas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writins Tile Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile <M.en• is a member of Tile Allodated rn.. All reproduction riJhts are raerved. 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988

The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



500 words are a small price to pay for London 
They say a picture is worth a thousand words. So what's 500? 
500 words is all they want for the Arts and Letters London Program application. One lousy essay. You wr-ite more than that for even the most blow-off psychology course. 
Basically all you have to do is tell them what you can do for London and what it can do for you. What you can do for London I can't tell you. But London can do a lot for you. 
Living in a foreign country for four or five months gives you experience you can't get from a two-week whirlwind tour. You learn about huskers and zone one passes and Covent Garden and whether Neil Kinnock is a wally or not. You find favorite pubs and favorite plays, if not fa­vorite airports. 
After the initial shock of almost getting run over by the cars on the left side of the street, you begin to get a feel for how non-Americans think. You see that America is not as respected there as it is here. You see how American foreign policy affects people an ocean away. You see that there is more to life than American football. 
This is all before you even leave London. The A&L Program only holds class four days a week and has extensive travel breaks, so there's plenty of time to hitchhike to Oktoberfest, drop in on Mikhail, and get lost in Spain. 
And now it's time to debunk all those rationalizations... 
Money? Work two jobs this summer, borrow from all your siblings, and beg for more finan­cial aid. No matter how much you bring, you will come back broke. And changed. It's worth it. 
Missed time? So what. Whether you miss next year's championship football team or next year's Junior Parents Weekend and An Tostal, you still get to see Buckingham Palace, the Mona Lisa, and the Guinness brewery. 
Readjustment? Wasn't it Socrates who said the unexamined life is not worth living? Sure, it's tough coming back, when your wardrobe is 90 percent black clothes and you are no longer a legal drinker and everyone calls you a Eurofag. Better that than four years of Notre Dame confonnity. 
Boyfriendlgirlfriend? If you can't last one se­mester, there's no point. Besides, British ac­cents are sexy, as are French women and Ital­ian men. Some of them, anyway. 
Scared? Admit it, you're a little nervous at 
Mark 
·o

Mclaughlin 
News Editor 
living in a city that had Jack the Ripper and other sundry crimes committed there. Serious­ly, I think London is a hell of a lot safer than New York. If you don't do anything stupid, you probably will be perfectly safe. Who would mess with a six-foot-two bobby carrying a billy club anyway? 
Besides, you also get to live in the closest thing to co-ed dorms Notre Dame will ever see, and become close friends with 80 other students. After four months of doing laundry and closing the Prince Alfred's, you do become close friends. 
So fill out the application and hand it in this week. 500 words is only half a picture, and you can reel that off in five minutes, right? 
And for those of you who are lucky enough to get in, some advice: Bring Visa or Master­card since you can get cash with them, buy Interrail over there instead of Eurail here, go to Camden Palace, and stay away from nudge machines because they're worse than A.C. slots. The rest you get to discover yourself. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 



i THIS WEEK"S EVENTS i 
: (C[L(UJ~ J(UJ[E~[Q)~ w : 
t SEONA McDOWELL : : OCT .25 8 :30-1 1 : t HAGGAR~SMC FREE ti !Ml(O)~O[E ~[Fa.\ lra.\lL $ 1 : 6.\ lrlr[Da.\(Clr~ (1[11 CARROLL : 

: OCT .24-26 :
HALLSMC 
• ~ A n •
: 9 & 1 1 pm s~T1T'IE:UD : 
• sponsored by leMans HaJJ SAIBT MARY'S COLLEGE • 
I 

Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
The Observer page 3 

Vincennes welcomed home 
T-SHIRTS, T-SHIRTS, WHO•s GOT THE T-SHIRTS? 

The Observer I John Studebaker
Gene Kelly at NO




~--~-7 
Sophomore Chuck Nevins renders his "Singin' in the Rain" imitation
DENNYS, ~ MILE NORTH OF 
while trying to anticipate the schizophrenic tendencies of South Bend
J c? ( 
weather.
/' ~ ~@jl) CLEVELAND, ON 31 N. IS WAOR AND SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS WELCOME
OFFERING A "I GOT SLAMMED AT DENNYS"
''~(
' \S b\~-~-~L\VV~<! ({G:AV
T-SHIRT GIVE AWAY. 
Tickets on Sale

\~~~~ 
With Special Guest 
JOHN KILZER 
WEDNESDAV,NOVEMBER2
FOR MORE DETAILS COME TO DENNYS 
7:30P.M. 
WE ARE OPEN 24 HRS. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
Morris Civi Auditorium 
All Seats Reserved -----ALWAYS OPEN $16.50 
Tickets Available At 
The Auditorium Box Office Night Winds (South Bend, Niles), 
Connection (Elkhart), Record & Tapes (Elkhart) & Super Sounds (Elkhart). OR CHARGE BY PHONE (219) 284-9190 

ND-SMC Prelaw Society and Career and Placement cosponsors THE LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN 
Today October 25th Stepan Center 12-4 pm 
over 50 Law Schools Represents 
Representatives will be present to answer questions on admissions, financial aid, LSAT's etc 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Youngsters cried "Hi, Daddy" and wives and girlfriends waved Monday for the crew of the USS Vin­cennes in an emotional homecoming from the Persian Gulf that tempered anguish over the downing of an Iranian airliner. 
"We're glad to be home, I as­sure you of that. This is a nice place," said Capt. Will Rogers III, skipper of the Aegis-class cruiser. 
After a brief welcoming cer­emony featuring William Rose, mayor of Vincennes, Ind., and Rep. Bill Lowery, R-Calif., of San Diego, the 380 sailors poured off the ship into a sea of relatives, friends and Navy colleagues. 
One woman held a sign that read, "I love you Beefcake Col­lins." A little girl waved to her father and said "Hi, Daddy. 
You're home!" One sailor bolted down the gangway, crying "Hi, Mom," and hugged his mother. 
"It's a tragedy that it hap­pened. But I'm glad I'm home and I'm alive," said Petty Of­ficer 3rd Class Steve Hile of Niles, Mich., who got a warm embrace from his girlfriend, Vallita Lawwill. 
Monday's return marked the end of a si~-month deployment for the crew of the Vincennes, named for a Revolutionary War battle near Vincennes. 
The Vincennes accidently shot down the civilian aircraft over the Persian Gulf on July 3, killing all 290 people aboard. 
Navy chaplain Ted Atwood, who visited the crew from Sept. 27 to Oct. 5 and talked fre­quently with the families of crew members, said many sailors came to grips with the tragedy on the way home. 
"When I was on board, I did not see a single depressed sailor," Atwood said. "Of course, the loss of lives is grievous in any situation. I think they absorbed it and they have dealt with it and they have grown beyond that grievous in­cident." 
The official Pentagon report concluded the crew mistook the airliner for an Iranian F-14 fighter jet and said crew mem­bers misinterpreted computer and radar data because of stress in their first combat sit­uation. At the time, the Vin­cennes was engaged in a firelight with several Iranian gunboats. 
Rogers also said the fate of the USS Stark, on which 37 sailors died in an Iraqi missile attack, was in the back of his mind throughout the Vincennes deployment. 
~ -~ ---­
Tuesday, October 25, 1988
page 4 
The Observer 






Presidential -battle heats up for final fifteen days 
Associated Press  "Hitler would these people,"  have loved Democratic  mate Lloyd Bentsen looked for a way to catch fire.  mirror and ask yourself: Is George Bush on your side?."  disaster if the liberals over the White House."  take  
Michael Dukakis, an under­ Rep. Richard Gephardt said of  Dukakis  stuck  to  his  late­ The vice president defended  Campaigning through  New  
dog running short of time, ac­ the  Republicans  as  he  cam­ campaign Populist theme and  his tax proposal  as  good for  England, Bush made an unus­ 
cused George Bush on Monday  paigned for Dukakis.  said  Bush  would  personally  creating  new  jobs.  He  said  ual  departure  from  his  
of resorting to "outright lies"  receive  a  $22,000-a-year  tax  Dukakis is likely to raise taxes  prepared  speech  to  reject  
to avoid important campaign  With 15 days until Election  break from his proposal to cut  if he gets the chance and the  Dukakis' charges of campaign 
issues.  Bush  replied  that  Day, Bush and running mate  the capital gains tax.  nation could face an "economic  distortions and deceptions.  
Democrats are desperate and  Dan Quayle were doing their  
said Dukakis is soft on crime and defense "and that's the in­ best to protect a lead in the na­tional public opinion polls.  "George Bush wants to give people like George Bush a tax  I)< lsiIi< H 1 available.  
escapable truth." There was no letup in a White House campaign never noted for civility.  Dukakis purchased time for the second in a series of five­minute network television commercials as he and ticket- break that's more than the average California worker makes in a year," Dukakis said in Los Angeles. "Look in the  lnlnlecliate opening. Inquire within.  

continued from page 1 
UNITED STATES
president. These committees, suggested by Student Senator Tom Rask would increase input 
CoNGRESSIONAL DEBATE
from those senate members closer to the student body. 
for 
Other ideas included the pos­sibility of an extension of li­

3Ro DISTRICT INDIANA 
brary hours, the addition of one or more telephones to the li­brary basement, and alternate 
_Rep. john Hiler -R
meal plans, whereby students might eat at Lafortune instead 
Tom Ward-D 
of at the dining halls. A sub­committee was assigned to in­vestigate the ideas. 
Thursday, October 27, 1988 
8:30pm 

Ira not an ea~y llle. In places from O&k:.ago lo Bangia· desh. you'll 1er~ the POOf" and
Senate rk:h,the •Sed and younf, lhC' educated and uneducated ~ 


Here is your chance to develop few_ You will take on respon­your professional skills by teach~ sibilities and meet challenges ing children eager to learn .. _in that would never be offered you a country where teachers are in a starting position in the United highly respected. More than 45 States. When you return, you will countnes are asking for Peace find that your Peace Corps serv­Corps Volunteers in almost every ice will open new doors to you. field of education: Math and Educatioral institutions. interna­Science, P-rimary, Vocational tional firms and government and Special Education and agencies value Peace Corps Industrial Arts. to name only a experience_ 
25 years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Film Seminar Wed.. Oct. 26 at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Interviews: Thurs. & Fri. Nov. 3rd & 4th Career & Placement Office 
life demands pn~rer. hard work and vision. The rewards are creat ...eYen In lhis llle. You will have opportunllles to develop your potenllal. You will con· tlnue the work ol Christ,ahare His mission and respond lo world n~. There Ia no joy In lhls world to compart: with that. 
By the witness of our lives, Brothers aerve ln.; Miuions. Education, Social, Pastoral. Jbtlh Care, Youlh and Retreat Work. Farming, Maintenance and other trades. and prOI~­slons: that help to strengthen Christian Community 
For more lnlormalion. 
Contact: 
Brother Don Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460 
Notre Dame,lndlana -46556 
219/233-2191 




-fOLY CROSS BROTHERS~ 
...---------------COUPON---------------­CELEBRATE OUR 1ST ANNIVERSARY WITH A FREE YOGURT FOR YOUR BEST FRIEND 
0 z
0 0
c:: a. 

"'0 Now frozen yogurt ::::»
0 z is twice the fun. 0 () Two for one. Take a friend for a small or medium cup or cone of frozen yogurt and you'11 both enjoy the rich taste of ice cream with just half the calories. Refresh your taste with French Vanilla, Choco­late, Strawberry, Apple Pie or Lemon Custard. Or discover Pecan Praline, Chocolate Mint. Peanut Butter Fudge or Raspberry, and more. 
The flavor and the price will bring smiles to 
yourfaces·,-------------------~ 

I Can't Believe It's 



YOGURT! 
Frozen Yogurt Stores 

GREAT TASTE-NATURAI.LY. 
1635 EDISON RD. SO. BEND 2 BLOCKS EAST OF N.D. STADIUM 271-9540 
Limit 2 w!th coupon. 
COUUPON GOOD OCT. 25, 1988 THRU NOV. 1, 1988 


--------COUPON--~------...1 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
The Observer 
Board sets SMC events 
By JOANNA GRILLO This week's Club Tuesday, News Staff which is also sponsored by SAB, features Seona 
The Saint Mary's Program­ming Board reported at Mon­day night's meeting that Foun­der's Day was a complete success. 
"The Cup and Cider giveaway went over very big and over 700 student govern­ment surveys were filled out and returned" said Lisa Hill, vice president for student af­fairs. 
McDowell, an Austrailian folk singer. McDowell will perform tonight from 8:30 until 11 p.m. in the parlor of Haggar College Center. Snacks will be served. 
Also, coming next week is an Election Information Table. The table will be located in Madeleva Nov.l-3, from 10-2 
p.m. and will feature unbiased election information. 
\ 
\. ,, 
Folks here are still talking about ''The 1952 Incident.'' For some reason still unknown, a certain graduating class at a certain university missed what was certainly the opportunity of a lifetime. 
The chance to meet with a recruiter from the National Security Agency. 
Maybe they were busy that day. May­be something else caught their eye. But the fact remains, a meeting with NSA could have meant a future full of chal­lenging, exciting projects. 
Now you've got the same chance. Our recruiter will be visiting campus soon in search of talented mathematicians, 

1he Observer I John Studebaker 
Quarters anyone? 
Members of the Hall President's Council supervise of tape for "The Quarter Mile." Proceeds from the the collection of quarter donations attached to a mile Oct. 14 fundraiser benefit The United Way. 
"WE HEAR the Soviets are em­barrassed about rumors linking them to the Institute for Pol­icy Studies." 
To subscribe to Na­tional Review call 
1-800-341-1522, or write NR, 150 East 35th Street, New York, N.Y. 10016 
computer scientists, electrical engineers and linguists. And we're looking for people who want to work on important, hands-on assignments right from the start of their career. 
NSA is the agency responsible for producing foreign intelligence informa­tion, safeguarding our government's communications and securing computer systems for the Department of Defense. 
And we're equally committed to help­ing you make your future strong. So do yourself a favor and meet with us. You don't need 3-D glasses to see that it's a great opportunity. 
NSA will be on campus November 15 inter­
National
viewing seniors majoring in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Math and 
SecurityLanguage. 
Agency 
Attn: M322 (AAM), J't. Meade, Maryland 20788-6000 
An equal opportunity employer. U.S. citizenship required for applicant and Immediate family members. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
....... rii'Uirll
lr:=======~· ...............-::::::::::~ 
ATTENTION BSN CLASS OF 1989. 
The Air Force has a special pro­
gram for 1989 BSNs. If selected, 
you can enter active duty soon 
after graduation-without waiting 
for the results of your State Boards. 
To qualify, you must have an overall 
2. 75 GPA. After commissioning, you'll attend a five-month intern­ship at a major Air Force medical facility. Irs on excellent way to pre­pore for the wide range of experi­ences you'll hove serving your country as an Air Force nurse of­fice[ For more information, call 
MAJ DUFFY 317-848-5830 COLLECT 
IT'S HARD TO PASS... 
... Through a metal detector when you're the tin man . 
. . . Funny money at the Federal Reserve. 
... Carl Lewis in the 100 yd. dash. 
. .. The CPA EXAM without CONVISER DUFFY &MILLER 
CONViS"ER DYID'f;M!Y!R 
1-800-274-EXAM 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
page 6 The Observer 
SECURITY BEAT 
OCTOBER 13 
1:50 a.m. An off-campus student reponed that his car had been damaged while parked in the C-1 Lot sometime between I 0:30 p.m.on I 0/12 and I :30 a.m. on I 0/13. Damage estimates are unknown at this time. 
8:11 a.m. A car belonging to a resident of Pasquerilla East was vandalized while parked in the D-2 Lot. Damage estimates are unknown. 10 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of a radio from Decio Hall sometime between 4 p.m.on 10/12 and 9 a.m. on 10/13. The loss is estimated at $70.00. 
OCTOBER 14 
10 a.m. Security responded to a minor traffic accident on Lake Road. No injuries were reported and damages were minor. 
11:45 a.m. Security reported that a car belonging to a Badin Hall resident was vandalized while parked in the D-1 Lot sometime between 9:05 and II :30 a.m. Damages are unknown at this time. 
1:15 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported that his room had been broken into sometime between 9 and 10:15 a.m. The door frame was badly damaged, and estimates of the loss are unknown. 
I :54 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his Miami student football ticket from his unlocked room sometime between 6 
p.m. and midnight on 10/13. 
4:10 p.m. A Pangborn resident reported the theft of his student football tickets from his room sometime between 10/8 and 10/14. 
8:10 p.m. Security confiscated several shirts from Notre Dame students who were selling them without proper authorization. 
OCTOBER 15 
9 a.m. Security responded to the report of a man down in Green Field. The victim had fallen from the top of a car in Green Field. He was transported to St. Joseph's Hospital. 
12:15 a.m. Security .responded to a minor two car accident at the intersection of Eddy, Edison, Juniper and Angela. No injuries were reponed. 
11:45 a:m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reponed that her Miami football ticket was stolen from her unlocked room sometime before 10 a.m. 2 p.m. Security confiscated ND hats from persons selling them without proper authorization. 
7:50 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Dorr Road. Both vehicles sustained minor damages. 
8:15 p.m. A New York resident reported that his car had been involved in a two car accident in Orange Field. No injuries were reported. and damages are estimated at $800.00. 
9:20 p.m. A Howard Hall resident reported a cash larceny from her unlocked room sometime between 5 p.m. on 10/14 and 9 a.m. on 10/15. 
9:40 p.m. A Notre Dame student was arrested for Public Intoxication and Resisting a Police Officer. The incident occurred at Green Field. 
OCTOBER 16 
3:12 a.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported that his car had been struck while parked in Green Field sometime before 
11:30 a.m. on 10/15. Damage estimate is 
unknown at this time. 2 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported that his car had been struck by an unknown vehicle while it was parked in the D-1 Lot. Damage estimates are unknown at this time. 3 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall reported that his car had been vandalized while parked in Green Field sometime between I 0/14 and 10/16. His loss is estimated at $380.00. 
OCTOBER 17 
9:49 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of computer equipment from the Math Computing Center sometime between 10/14 and 10/17. The loss is estimated at $168.00. 
12:30 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reponed that his car had been vandalized while parked in the D-1 Lot sometime between 4 p.m. on 10/14 and 10/17. His loss is estimated at $873.44. 
1:50 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his books from the Law Library at approximately II: 15 a.m. His loss is estimated at $270.00. 
OCTOBER 18 
7:43 a.m. While on a routine patrol of Green Field, Security found that a vehicle belonging to a resident of Fisher Hall had been broken into. His loss is unknown at this time. 
10:30 a.m. Security responded to a one car accident on Douglas Road. No injuries were reported, and damage is unknown at this time. 
OCTOBER 19 
3:20 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the larceny of ca.~h from the Mail Room in O'Shaughnessy at approximately 
noon. 
8:20 p.m. An employee of Notre Dame reported that his jacket had been stolen from O'Shaughnessy Hall sometime between 6 and 8 p.m. His loss is estimated at $65.00. 
OCTOBER 20 
5:15 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported a larceny from the Football Offices in the JACC. The loss occurred sometime 
OCTOBER 22 
2:56 a.m. A South Bend resident reported that his radio and speakers were stolen from his vehicle while it was parked in the O'Hara­Grace Visitors Lot sometime between 7:15 and II p.m. on 10!21. His loss is estimated at $463.00. 
3:31 a.m. A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported that his car window had been broken and his speakers stolen from his vehicle while it wa.' parked in the O'Hara­Grace Visitors Lot sometime between 7 and II p.m. on 10/21. His loss is estimated at $135.00. 
12:50 p.m. While on routine patrol of the D-2 Lot , Security discovered several vehicles which had been vandalized sometime between 10/21 and 7:45 a.m. on 10/22. 
8:48 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall was assaulted by three persons in the first floor hall of Dillon. The victim wa.' transported to the Student Health Center and later taken 10 St. Joseph Hospital. 
11:41 p.m. Security responded 10 the report of a vandalized vehicle. The incident occurred sometime between 9:20 a.m. and 
10:30 p.m. in Green Field. Damage is estimated at $60.00. 
OCTOBER 23 
3:45 p.m. A California resident reported the theft of two jackets from the Morris Inn coat room sometime between I :30 and 3:30 
p.m. His loss is estimated at $123.00. 
Hostage 
continued from page 1 
the woman's luggage. 
"We hold Italian authorities fully responsible for col­laborating in a malicious con­spiracy aimed at besmirching our image in the eyes of public opinion. This will not go un­punished," the Islamic Jihad statement said. 
Milan police said two other photographs, at least one of them showing another Ameri­can captive, Alann Steen, were found in the woman's luggage along with a letter bearing Steen's name, $1,000 in counter­feit bills and 1.7 ounces of heroin. 
The statement today was the third in recent days from Is­lamic Jihad, which holds Asso­ciated Press correspondent Terry Anderson and educator Thomas Sutherland. 
Anderson and Sutherland are among nine Americans held by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon. Anderson, kidnapped March 16, 1985, is the longest held hostage. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
between noon on I 0/15 and 8 a.m. on 10/17 and is estimated at $172.00. 
1•--­
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
The Observer page 7 
Whales return to starting point; rescuers continue efforts 
Associated Press efforts to coax the imprisoned headed back toward the Instead of pushing the ice ice-clogged channel. mammals toward freedom. shoreline where they have been blocks back under the adjacent "They're doing what they're 
BARROW, Alaska -Two So­trapped for more than two ice, the Eskimos used long supposed to," said federal viet icebreakers · steamed Biologists stopped cutting weeks. poles to guide the miniature whale biologist David Withrow, toward U.S. waters to join the new breathing holes through With Eskimo crews provid­icebergs to the rear of the slot. as the back-filling operationdrive to save two stranded the Beaufort Sea ice Monday ing the backbreaking labor, The idea was to try to keep forced the whales toward the whales Monday, while rescuers evening after the whales, ap­biologists switched tactics in the whales from reversing shoal. appeared to lose ground in their parently spooked by a shoal, the frustrating effort to get the their course toward the nearest 
open water. But when the channel behind 

1~:::::::: •:::::::i1 whales through the shallow 
~ ~::::=:... 
water. them was almost completelyFirst, they connected a series Initially the strategy worked. filled, the whales reversed
CLINICAL 
of intermittent breathing holes The whales would swim back course, struggling up through to form a single open channel and forth between the edge of the large slabs of ice and thick 
SOCIAL WORKERS, 
some 600 yards long. the shoal and the rear of the slush.
READY FORA CHANGE OF PACE? 
The Air Force can make you an attractive offer-outstand­ing compensation plus opportunities for professional development. You can have a challenging practice and time to spend with your family while you serve your country. Find out what the Air Force offers clinical social workers. Call 
CAPT MIKE CULHANE 317-848-5830 COLLECT 
t.·.·.·.·.·.·.·Hl\"PPY~·~·!t~rst·~·~·tstRfltb)(\Y·=·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··~m Marines to 
[[] COLLEEN McCARTHY ![jjreturn to 
il. ocT 21, 1988 :li: Vietnam 
.:•.:•.:. t i; :•.:.:•..:··· ;;~~;.~i~i~1h!t-J:~~
in advance of a mercy mission to that country in which they :: ::: will look for land mines that
•• ••• :~;~~fg~~~;.g;;::
sion to the United Nations saying: "In the hopes of 
preserving the peace, we come to Vietnam once again, this time to help the preservation of human life. 11th Engineers January 1989." While the nine-day trip to be made by six former Marines from the 11th Engineer Bat­talion, 3rd Marine Division, is a private and, in some ways, sentimental journey funded by an anonymous businessman, it has the blessing of both the U.S. and Vietnamese governments. The Jan. 9 trip is the latest in
REGGIEHO 
a series of moves between the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
two countries to improve rela­tions. Vietnam, one of the
ToyQta honors junior Reggie Ho, 
poorest countries in the world, 
kicker for the Fiahting lrjsh. as recipient 
is seeking diplomatic relations with the United States, Ameri­can aid and investment now 
' ofti\~J'toyota Leadership Award for 
· outstanding leadership on the playing 
banned by a U.S. trade em­
field, in the classroom andJn the 
bargo.
community. 
A member of Vietnam's Na­
Reggie Ho is awarded the Toyota 
tional Assembly and a key eco­nomic adviser, Nguyen Xuan Oanh, made a rare visit. to the
Leadership Plaque and the University 
ofNotre Dame receives a$1,000 contri~ 
United States earlier this 
· ... ,button to its general scholarship fund. 
month to confer with American 
<As aleader in automotiVe quality 
businessmen. He also repeated 'ar~d p~rformance., Toyot~·.pr()udly rec· 
Vietnam's intention to withdraw its troops from Cam­
.···(>gniZes and·applauds studf!nt leaders 
bodia by March 1990, one of the
like.Reggie Ho for their extra effort on 
things Washington is insisting
and offthe field. 
upon before recognizing the Hanoi government. 
And just last month, the United States and Vietnam began joint searches for wit­nesses of wartime plane crashes in efforts to find the remains of some of the 1,757 Americans missing in action and presumed dead. The United States says it has no evidence that any of the mis­sing are alive but it has demanded they be accounted for one way or another as a second condition for establish­ing diplomatic relations. 
At a joint news conference Monday, there was a diplomatic difference on whe­ther land mines and unex­ploded bombs still threaten Vietnamese civilians. The Vietnamese said the mines had all been cleared at the cost of thousands of civilians killed, particularly from the end of the war in 1975 until1978 when land was being cleared for farming and housing. 
"I can assure you that those mine fields have been cleared," said Ambassador Trinh Xuan Lang, head of the Vietname.se mission to the United Nations. 
Viewpoint
page a 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
1988 election: a 
guide to voting . · 
blanket of patriotic rhetoric. watch television. Ho~ever, the Issues 
Bush's comments about the pledge of are often hard to fmd because the allegiance and Dukakis' involvement media know .that people would rat~er with the ACLU must be ignored. read somethmg dir.ty than som~thmg Similarly, I think we all know quite wen· important. So I advise that yo.u fmd an Dukakis' parents .came over from ardent support~r of each candidate and Greece and how great Dukakis thinks listen to the pitch. Granted, tr1:1e fol­A:Iherica is because the son of Greek lowers of each side may be gmlty ~f immigrants is now running for presi-biased and emotiona.l language. But. If dent. But who really cares? you confront them directly on ~our Is-
The best way to really tell these two sues, yo':! will discover how different apart is to go off into a room by rourself t~e candidates are, an~ ~ne of the can­and completely ignore everythmg both didates may be surpnsmgly close to candidates have said so far. Pick two what you are looking for. or three key issues that you truly think In the end, do not get put off by all are important for this election and ul-the unimportant issues this year. Rec­timately important for America. For ognize that real issues are being dealt example, three reasonably important with to s?me extent. None of us ~ants issues could be defense, the economy, to vote simply because one man Is the and the social securityAvelfare situa-lesser of two evils. Although neither of tion. If you do not already have a solid these gentlemen this year is going to opinion on these issues, think about knock the world over with his charisma them carefully and generate a stand and originality, both have distinct ideas one way or the other. and are in many ways different. If all 
Now in order to find out where the of this does not ~ork, just toss a coin. 
candidates stand on the issues you have Paul Kane is a senior anthropology and 
chosen, you could read the papers or government major. 
•
With the presidential elections closing in on us, we are beginning to realize we have to start taking this elec­tion business seriously. Of course, it is not our fault that we have become al­most numb to the whole thing. Ever since Gary Hart learned how to spell "Monkey Business," not a day has gone by when we have not been reminded in one form or another that, yes indeed, good ol' Ronnie is about to step down. The reason I wallow in the obvious like this is to show that, despite all the' "preparation," the American public has had for this great ritual of democracy, most of us still do not know what the hell is going on. 
Paul Kane 
guest column 
Recently, representatives of one of the local television stations walked around the streets of South Bend and 
P.O. Box Q 
Hiler/Ward debate set .for October 27 
Dear Editor: 
For as long as recent memory has been an indication, political activism at Notre Dame has been characterized by such adjectives as "apathetic," ''uninvolved,'' and ''unresponsive.'' For a university of the stature and reputation of ours, the fact that our stu­dent body has not become involved in issues which affect it, raises serious questions about our community­mindedness. A concerted, motivated student body has the very real potential of influencing the course and direction of government policy at both the local and national level. When moved to act, Notre Dame can successfully assure that issues relevant to voter-age, uni­versity students are addressed and pursued by elected officials whom we have worked to put in office. If ever there was an opportunity to influence the course of government affairs, that time is now. 
Three weeks ago, student govern­ment organized and undertook an ex­tensive voter registration campaign which resulted in the registration of 
Doonesbury 
took a public opinion poll on the candi­dates the debates, and other such mat­ters pertaining to the election. The con­sensus seemed to be that neither one of the candidates was saying anything (as if politicians never behaved in th~s fas­hion before). Neither of the candidates had that "umph," the charisma to win voters. The other feeling was they were both saying the same thing; they were more or less the same person in differ­ent bodies. 
Since recent polls indicate there are many "undecideds" out t~ere, ~ have compiled the comprehensive gmde on whom to vote for this year. First off, you must realize that Bush and. Dukakis are not just alike. In fact, I thmk there is a greater division between the par­ties this year than there has been for many years. Even a friend of mine from Argentina noted this fact, so it is not a party bias of mine. But in order to distinguish these two unremarkable candidates one must come to grips with the fact that they are saying important things, things just hidden under a 
over 2,200 voters between the campuses of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. This new voter block constitutes a signifi­cant constituency in the South Bend area and has become a new surprise factor in one particular local election. All of these voters are registered in the State of Indiana and are thus eligible to participat.e in the 3rd District Con­gressional Elections to seat a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from South Bend. The candidates for this year are incumbent Rep. John Hiler 
(R) and challenger Tom Ward (D). In the last election, Hiler won his seat in Congress by a total of 47 votes. Clearly, a new block of over 2,000 votes puts the student in a position of real influence if this past election is any indication of how close the race will be on Nov. 8. The ramifications of this new block of Notre Dame voters are already being felt. 
With the ability to affect the outcome of the Congressional elections, the stu­dent body has captured the attention of the two candidates. Responding to an invitation from student government, both Hiler and Ward have agreed to come to Notre Dame on Thursday, Oct. 27 to participate in a full debate. This is a perfect opportunity to impress upon 
I KNOW, I'M TIRe!), {)(JQ::S. 8IfT 
eerorrMY
at4Y...
AUCC-. I'M W&GOTTAMT. 
CORNIJR, IAfJY!
II~Y/ 
IAJHAF
A/..WAY5 YOU IAIORK 7HI5 
FINO YOUR. 
TIR/50. .. CORNER UNTIL, 
011/N CCY?NCR.f
IGE:TBACK, 
I
I 
I
OKAY? \ )) 
the candidates the importance of various student issues. All manner of topics, ranging from student loans and grants to government policy on educa­tion will be addressed at the debate. We have here a chance to force both candidates to make campaign prom­ises on matters that are of importance to us as American students in Indiana. National and foreign policy issues which affect our lives as citizens of the nation will also be raised. The fact of the matter is that this debate is an op­portunity to reestablish the student community as an integral and powerful political force. To do so requires par­ticipation in the political process and an understanding of the campaign is­sues. Thursday's debate is an excellent way to start. With a large student at­tendance at the debate, the candidates will be forced to acknowledge the poli­tical influence of our student body. • 
A precedent may very well be set here at Notre Dame this fall that the students of our University are inter­ested, mature, responsible voters who, of necessity, must be addressed by public officials in a similar manner. By forging a reputation such as this, the door is open for the student body to cerns such as off-campus crime, police-Student relations and the South Bend-Notre Dame relationship at other government levels. The possibilities for student influence in our local environ­ment are limitless. To realize these lofty dreams, we must first start by making our presence known in this Con­gressional election. 
As a member of student government, 
·but more importantly as a member of the student body, I invite the entire Notre Dame student community to at­tend the Hiler!Ward debate. Tickets are free and available at the LaFortune In­formation Desk from Tuesday until Thursday. Tickets are also available at the door of the Joyce ACC Concourse, where the debate will take place at 8:30 
p.m. Please set aside an hour on Thursday to let the candidates know that the Fighting Irish are back. Our influence in and contribution to the South Bend community is solely the product of otl.r own participation and ·involvement. Let us all move to capi­talize on this great opportunity to make our voices heard. 
Michael A. Moynihan Executive Planning Committee for the Congressional Debate 
force recognition of 'other student con-____________.:O:...c:.:t..;..._2_4,:...1_9_8""18 
Garry Trudeau 
AP0l06Y 
ACC&PTW. HAVe A GOOCJ 
OAY. 
I 
Quote of the Day 
"Our purpose on this earth is to love our fellow human beings, following the ex­ample of our Lord. Once you love someone, he or she is born inside you, and 
becomes spiritually  im­ 
mortal."  
Jeff D.  Pardue  

"An Uninvited Guest" 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  ·  Ed,tor-m·Ch1el Managmg Ed1tor  Chns Murphy Chns Donnelly  Busmess Manager Adverttsmg Destgn Manager  John Oxnder Molly K1llen  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Cocc1a  Advertlsmg Manager  Linda Goldschmidt  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper pubhshed by the students of the Umvers1ty of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Product1on Manager  Bernadene Sh11ts  
Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of  V1ewpomt Ed1tor  Man Slaughter  Systems Manager  Mark R1dgeway  
the adm1n,stral10n of e1ther 1nshtut10n. The news IS reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as  Sports Ed1tor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hard1man  
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opimon of the matonty of the Ed1tonal Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  GraphiC Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the tns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column  Sa1nt Mary·s Edttor  Sandy Cenmele  
space 1s ava,table to all members of the commumty and the free express1on of varymg  Photo Edttor  M1chael Moran  
op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  Founded November 3,1966  

Accent
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 page 9 
' '
Farley Hall: The Experiment' Succeeds 
CINDY PETRITES accent writer 
'Adegree of relief is promised in 
the near future with the comple­
tion of Farley Hall, named after 
Father John 'Pop' Farley, late rec­
tor of Sorin Hall. The fine Gothic 
structure, located north of Breen­
Phillips, will contain room for 215 
students..." 
It was more than two score years 
ago, in January of 1947, that Farley 
Hall first opened its doors. 
Originally a freshman dormitory, it 
brought the number of residence 
halls at Notre Dame to 13. 
That first year, Farleyites ac­
quired a dubious recognition of 
having "the healthiest legs on 
campus," a reputation probably due 
to the thrice-daily trek to South 
Dining Hall from what was then considered "an outpost of frontier life." 
The reputation was shortlived however, as administrators generously installed ice cream, 
[J)r:t~ 
[ II II ]
of the 
~~~ 
l 
-
I 
Coke, and rootbeer machines in the basement during that same winter of 1947-48, Farley's first full year of operation. These temporary services fortunately appeased Farleyites 
First Impressions of Italy 
T hings are definitely different. 
I wash my clothes in a bathtub and I only wash them when they're ready to walk away by themselves. 
But things are great. Where else can you climb around the ruins of an ancient Roman theatre during the day and hang out at the piazza at night, eating gelato and fraternizing with handsome locals? 

LIZ PANZICA 
La Dolce Vita 
In case you're not following, I'm spending my sophomore year in Rome on the Saint Mary's Rome Program. Italy's not quite South Bend, and my housing accomodations are not at all like my freshman home of Howard Hall. For one thing, my room window overlooks one of the busiest streets in Rome. In the distance I can see the Pantheon, not the Golden Dome. 
So far the trip has been fun and exciting and all so new it's hard to remember that, yes, I have to go to class. The nightlife is promising and days certainly aren't dull. 
Yet, it is work, adjusting and understanding. It's easy, I've found, to forget that the world does not revolve around the United States or Notre Dame. 
This fact became painfully obvious during orientation in Assisi. Assisi allows. only residents to drive within the city walls because of its ancient buildings and narrow streets. This meant that I had to trudge up the city's mountainous terrain to our hotel. As I hauled my 100-pound carry-on bag, I couldn't help thinking, "Why would anyone want to build a city on a mountain? Didn't they think how incon­venient it would be?" 
No, I wasn't amazed and awed by the countryside or the fact that I was walking on the very same paths as St. Francis and St. Claire. All I could think about was how steep this incline ahead of me was. When I made it to the hotel, I looked at the countryside below and I was so sorry. Instead of noticing the townspeople leaning from the windows and tending their shops, I worried about making a climb. 
I have a long way to go, and the road, I'm sure, is not level. Rome waits. It was built on seven hills, not just one. This time, however, I'm ready. I'm buying a pair of hiking boots. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 
H£'{, SUSIE I DID '(OU ~IJE t>N'i TRoUBLE Win.\ 0\JR M~l\-\ HOMEWORK 
lJ..ST NIG\.IT? 
1 ~OUG\.\T A COUPLE OF n\E.SE WER.£ lRICK.'I. 0..~ 
I GIEC.k \-1\~ f.-1\\S'f.IEI<S 
Win.\ ~OURS? 
until North Dining Hall opened in, 
1958. 
"Out along the Michigan Trail stands Farley Hall," the 1949 Dome reads, "proud of its new grass and its new green inhabitants under her roof." 
These "green" inhabitants in­cluded not only the hall's new fresh­men but also their new rector, Rev­erend Theodore M. Hesburgh. And as the men settled into the routines of college life, the grass began to grow, Farley traditions began to take root, and the dorm took on a character all its own. 
Father Charles E. Sheedy replaced Hesburgh as rector in 1949, and held that post until the end of the school year in 1952. Perhaps it was he who first had to respond to the question, "Do we follow on­campus or off-campus regulations?" posed by Farley freshmen, ap­parently still doubtful whether South Dining Hall was within campus jurisdiction. 
Reverend Daniel F. Curtin contin­ued the Farley rector tradition by distinguishing himself as the rector of "one of the best study halls on campus." Soon after, however, Far-proposal to integrate students from each of the four classes in the dorms was offered to Farley, Alumni, and Dillon in the early 
months of 1965. By summer however, Farley was the only dorm of the three still willing to partici­pate in the "grand experiment." 
Undaunted, Farley opened its doors in September 1966, to mem­bers of all four classes. The experi­ment was a success, and Alumni , and Dillon followed suit the next year. 
The big change came in 1973, when Farley became a women's dorm. Sister Jean Lenz and her class of 140 freshmen joined sopho­more, junior and senior volunteers from Walsh and Badin to make Far­ley's first year as a women's dorm memorable. 
"My sense was that the Farley men didn't want to give the hall up," remembers Lenz. "They were very proud of their hall." 
Farley women continued the dorm's athletic spirit, bringing home the women's interhall basket­ball crown in 1974 and, more recent­ly, proving their skill in flag football as Farley's Finest. 

The Obeerwt-/ Suunne Poch "Pop" Farley never had daughters In his day, but now he watches over the women of the dorm that bears his name, Including senior Kathleen Hannon. 
ley came under the hand of Father Michael Murphy and showed its true colors as "Father Murphy's mad­house." 
Farley Hall traditions of athletics and leadership on campus confinued throughout the '50s and '60s, with Farley being the first dorm to in­stitute the stay-hall system. This 
As ~ women's dorm, Farley has also created some traditions of its own, the most famous of these being the annual "Pop" Farley Week. This event was instituted in 1976 to celebrate the 100th birthday of the beloved Sorin rector who "never taught a class, never said Mass at Sacred Heart, but somehow got to know more students than most of his fellow priests." 
"Pop" Farley Week now includes a weeklong series of activities: a talent show, hall awards ceremony, a skit by the resident assistants, a hall dinner, and culminates in the "Pop" Farley dance. 
Even though Farley never knew the women of the hall that bears his name, says Lenz, "his colorful char­acter lends itself well to the charac­ter of a hall. But he would be turn­ing over in his grave if he only knew..." 
---~·r 
lji---­
*-t,t#fq<:i{~qi.t;;Stt;t i'J 
\ 
, 
• *-' 
·"·"···~ ,. 
. 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
-------,-------·-· 
' l ~· '. 
,.\­
~ 
't ~,. 
<1111 
Nobody leaves Notre Dame #1 
The Observer I Photos by Rob Regovich, Pat Kusek and John Studebaker 
. 
·~·J 
J 
"4 ~ ul' .. 
The Observer Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
Arbitrator grants 12 baseball players free agency 
Associated Press of the New York Yankees and Roberts made seven players million, three-year contract pitchers."• outfielder Brian Downing of the from the first case free agents with the Expos. Infielder Dave The union had asked that NEW YORK-Pitchers Jim Angels. last January, and Kirk Gibson Concepcion was made a free Nicolau make 33 others players 
Clancy of Toronto and Doyle In addition, Roberts granted left Detroit to sign a $4.5-agent even though he has been free agents again, includingAlexander of Detroit were new-look free agency to million, three-year .contract one since the Cincinnati Reds pitcher Jack Morris of the among 12 players granted pitchers Ken Dayley of St. with Los Angeles. released him Oct. 6. Detroit Tigers. Most players in "new-look" free agency by an Louis and Roy Smith of Min­"These ... players are en tiled "I think it's no secret that we this category also were free arbitrator Monday in the 1986 nesota. They became free to immediate relief and are thought the order should have agents after the 1987 season collusion case. agents Dec. 21, 1986, when their hereby afforded the opportu­been broader," said Donald and are part of the Collusion 
Catchers Rich Gedman of clubs failed to offer them con­nity to seek employment, free Fehr, executive director of the III case. Boston, Ernie Whitt of Toronto, tracts for the 1987 season. They from the clubs' violation of the Major League Baseball Whitt said he was more in­Bob Boone of California and re-signed with their former basic agreement," Nicolau Players Association. "I think terested in eventual monetaryAlan Ashby of Houston also teams after receiving no other wrote in a nine-page opinion. this will give us a good indica­damages than in the new look. were made free agents by ar-offers. Two other players were in­tion of what clubs are up to. "If other clubs want to con­bitrator George Nicolau. Other The 12 players have until cluded in Nicolau's decision but Everybody's been crying tact me, I'll listen," Whitt, 37,players granted free agency Dec. 16 to accept contracts with will not be affected. Outfielder there's no catchers. And said. "But my preference is to were pitcher Ron Guidry, in-new teams or remain with their Tim Raines of Montreal waived 
everybody's been crying stay in Toronto. At my age, I 
fielder Willie Randolph and current clubs. In a similar his new-look rights Sunday there's no pitchers. Here's a don't think there are manyoutfielder Claudell Washington process, arbitrator Thomas when he agreed to a $6.3-group that has catchers and teams interested.'' 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
PLEASE HELP!-4 RICE GA'S NEEDED NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE SARAH is 19!!!! Mitqh. please call# 2574 AND ONEGA OR STUDENT FOR PENN PREFERRABL Y GA'S 50 FT. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS and wish her a
NOTICES FOR RENT 
STATE CALL SUSAN-264-4373. CAROLINE 283·3144 OR GROUPS OF 8 $435 PP 7 DAYS HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! CARLOS 289-8417 1-800-999-7245 ANY'riME HELPI I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUDENT ARRANGE SMALL GROUP & CRUISE 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-OR GA. MY FAMILY NEEDS A PLACE FREE SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS
TYPING AVAILABLE 
291·7153. IN THE STANDS TO SEE ND BEAT BE SPONTANEOUS 1111!! MIAMI. CALL BRIDGET AT 284·5075 BE AT SENIOR BAR 
287-4082 
PERSONALS 
....................... BASS PLAYER FOR ROCK N ROLL TONIGHT FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'N Breakfast Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pas· N.D. CANDY BAND NEEDED call Jim 288·6207 Scott WEDDINGLESS RECEPTION
Mall "Schmear· Gallagher lor \11'> 
just 20 mlns. from NO. Ideal lor al ND sible. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC-Personalized Notre Dame. Green-While 283·3249 WEEKI!!) 
activities. Reserve now. 616-471-5711. 4395. Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 JOYSTER MUFFY. & BIF ANNOUNCE THEIR BIG 
TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books ·Need 2 Penn State Tix(preler stu­S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741-(yes, the McCan RA) ENGAGEMENT!! 
lor ALL classes still available! UN­
dent)Will pay $$1 Call Rich at 3317. 1338.
BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's SENIORS SENIORS
..................... 4 months without­
Books, 808 Howard St., just off of ND 
GAYS AND BE AT SENIOR BAR
WANTED FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET LESBIANS AT NOTRE dancing, walking, wining,
Ave. 233-2342. 
BEST OFFER ACCEPTED x1010 DAMEiST. MARY'S COLLEGE jogging, boating, golfing, TONIGHT 
P.O. Box 194 boating, tennis, talking, SEE THE BAND SEE MUFFY AND BIF EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
........................... ...etc (with)­
MRS. COKER 233-7009. OVERSEAS JOBS. Summer, 
!.HAVE YOUR WIFE AND KIDS. ALSO You is pure TORTURE IT'S JOE WILDE'S 22nd B-DAY 
YOUR MIAMI TICKET!!$$$ £3691.DAC. Te Quiero. TYPINGWORDPROCESSING All fields. $900-2000 mo. SlghiBM­HELP! I need a ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. Your Foreign Admirer IT'S JOE WILDE'S 22nd B-DAY 237-1949 Ing.Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· 15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. share expenses. Mike x4141 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Asla. 
2 AFORC TIX 4 SALE IT'S JOE WILDE'S 22nd B-DAY GAME THEORY !;;AME ROW;SEC GAME THEORY MERYL S.
Typing. Call Pat at 271-8116. Located OPPORTUNITY IN THE TRAVEL IN· I NEE ED 2 PENN ST. GA's NOW! I WILL GAME THEORY 1) IT WAS UNNECESSARY
DUSTRYI PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL The # 1 college tour operator is looking JASON AT x4141. ' 
2 mi. north of Notre Dame. 
CALL MONICA 2796 GAME THEORY 2) WHAT IS YOUR NAME? 
WI DAMN HAMMER Wed Oct. 26 at --D'ARTAGNANfor an efficient, responsib and organized THEO's 9pm FREE FREE FREE WINDcampus representative to market a SMCIDSpring Break trip on campus. Earn free 
2 TIX INCLUDED EACH HOME GAME U B 4 0 trips, and good commissions while 
WITH LIVE IN JAPAMgaining great business experience. For 
WEEKEND RENTAL QF 1 BEDROOM UB40
more information call 1-800·999-4300. I AM OUT THERE
LOST/FOUND 
APT. Individuals with a degree and experi­YOU WILL BE DYING TO MEET ME...
3 BLKS. FROM N.D. $350 ence In: electronics, engineering, UB40 
CALL 219 272-2720 TESOL, linguistics, pharmacy, WVFI IS TAKING A BUS TO CHICAGO WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST 
finance, management, real estate, ad· FOR THE SHOW ON NOV 4. $25 FOR FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL vertlslng, publishing, elementary edu­BUS & Tl RESERVE SPACE BYLOST: GEOLOGY TEXTBOOK-THE 
233-4767. 
1 RICE GA FOR SALE CALL STEVE AT cation and the travel Industry Inter­BRINING MONEY TO STATION ONEARTH'S 
DYNAMIC SYSTEMS 4TH EDITION. I 3375 Discern where God Is leading you ested In teaching English lor one year 2ND FL LAFORTUNE EYT' 3 & 5PM UN­In Japan to employees of major cor­TIL FRIDAY 1CY.!9. SPACE 11jl LIMITED'
Share In a womens' retreat at Mary'sMUST WANTED One artsy-fartsy sophomore 
porations/government ministries with
HAVE MY BOOK! A REWARD IS OF· Solitude-St. Mary's, Oct. 28-29, 7p.m.­
1 need 2 studGA tixs for Penn St. call should send resume and photo: ··········vouFivorEcouNrsi!··
7p.m. Call Sr. Arlene at 264-5599FERED. 
bird legs who is 19 today. 
4431. Congressional Debate
IF YOU FIND A GEOLOGY BOOK ······················-· 
Big $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ paid! 
mternatlonal Education Services John Hiler v. Tom Ward I need 4 Rice Stud Tix; John x4364 Engineering Auditorium Shin Talso Bldg., 10-7, Thursday 1CY.!7 8:30 p.m. 
PLEASE ROBOCOP Friday 8:00 and 10:15 p.m., 
CALL MIKE AT 1789 
Dogensaka 2-chome ACC Monogram Room I STILL want to buy a MIAMI T-SHIRT II 
Shlbuya-ku, Tokyo 150, Japan Tickets Available--Not Required you have any left, please calli Laure # WANTED: SIX RICE GA's, count 'em, 6 WEEKEND WHEELS IS COMINGII! 
Interviews will be held In various U.S. ND and SMC Student Government LOST: BLUE N.D. ID CASE AT THE 
2963 will pay CA$h... call Frank 
cities this fall. ALL INVITEDCOMMONS OR IN CORBY'S PARKING 
..................•....... or Rob-3137 LOT 
HELP!!! Ride Needed This Friday to Milw THURS, .1~ CALL BRIDGET 289-7616 WEEKEND WHEELS IS COMINGIll 
or Chicago or Madison $$$$ Rob x 1532 
CATHOLICS HAPPY 1 NEED RICE TICKETS BADLY!l! 
IN HAPPY Okay, everybody needs tickets here and 
BAD STANDING HAPPY
LOST: SAPPHIRE HEART AND CHAIN WEEKEND WHEELS IS COMING!!!
there, but my parents are coming so I 
21STLAST 
need 2 GA's. Please call Kerstin at 283·
FOR SALE 
Thursday Night at Senior Bar 21STFRIDAY AT SOUTH DINING HALL. 
4220. 
11 pm 21STEXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­NO HOCKEY TONIGHT VS. ALASKA· Come see Catholics in Bad Standing BIRTHDAYREWARD. 
You belcha I need tlcketsll BIRTHDAYcluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, 
disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap· petition. In return, I promise to Martyr, BIRTHDAY 
SEE CLAUDINE AT SOUTH DINING ANCHORAGE, 7:30.
Please call the Beeler to sell him 8 GA's HALL. 
for the Rice game. And when you call, 
great in virtue and rich in miracles, near KATIE tell Steve you think he's cute. Call 1069pleworks word processor, blank data dis· 
kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­GRUBER to sell tickets.
ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283· WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST 
sor of all who invoke your special Lost:pair of red glasses in burg. 233-4767. patronage in time of need, to you I have ····················· 
3481. FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL 
············································· 
I NEED TWO PENN ST. GA'S. ANY
case wr blue dot pattern on Man 1ot 1980 310GX 5 re-course, and from the depth of my KATIE GRUBER HAVE A GREAT 21ST 
DATSON COUPE, belween cushing 2nd II. and Farley SPEED CLEAN, GOOD MECHANICAL heart I beg to whom God has given such BIRTHDAY
PRICE X4418, # 847 P.E. 
hall. if you picked them up, please CONDITION, $995. 272·6477. ETIENNE great power to come to-my aid. Help me call Molly x3560 NEXT ISSUE OF PENTHOUSE IS ON in my present and urgent petition In Need Tickets to Rice Game so I can show
HELP! NEW YORK FRIEND WANTS TO 
SEE ND GAME BEFORE RETURNING
•""FOR SALE••••• return, I promise to make your name my brother how bad his team really is.
us
TO BIG APLE. CALL37561FYOU HAVE 
known and to cause you to be invoked. Please Help! Sell me your STUDENT Lost: black jean jacket, 100 GC,PW,PS,PB: BO OR $800 Thank you, St. Jude. Amen. Publication TICKET. Michael 1089 
1978 IMPALA WAGON FROM THE PRETTY WOMEN OF P.W. 
2 PENN GA'S 
rm. 217 O'Shag, it's cold so must be promised. Say 3 Our Fathers, 3 
CALL 283-3405 
HELP!
please return. Chris x2725 •••••FOR SALE••••• Beautylul Faces Start Here! Hail Marys and 3 Glorias. This Novena TOP 10 QUOTES OF THE CLUB 1 desperately need 2 Penn ST GA's at
UNITED AIRLINES FLIGHT VOUCHER I am an Esthetlclan from West Ger­has never been known to fail. St. Jude, DREADD 10. Stan...Don't do it any cost.$$$$ Please call Stacy atx3771 
pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Stan ... Stan' 9. Oooo,l must look a mess­
PLEASE HELP ME 11!1!1! B0 OVER $200 CALL 283-3405 facial treatments and skin care to the actually you look good enough to eat. I lost a silver watch probably be ATTENTION DOMERS 3. I thought we'd go back to my place 
GOOD ANYWHERE IN US many, bringing the art of European 
woman In this area I 
hind St. Edwards Hall. II you found Anyone needs NAVY GA's? I've got Today is JEAN HAYES Birthday!! 
for a Lumerian feast. 7. I'm hot, bothered it, please call Jim at x-1561. miami stud ticket-best offer air three. Call Coop at 1791. -Deep cleansing treatment lor problem Stop by 336 Lewis and give and horny! 6. I'm going to feed your head GREAT SENTIMENTALVALUEIIII Ioree stud ticket-face value ····························· skln-$17.50 her a big birthday hug!! to 
....................... ········································· 
If I'm not in, please leave a I have FOUR NAVY TIX for sale. First
289-2527 -Full treatment facial lor students­Sheetar! 
message. Thank you. good offer takes them. Ask for John at $25.00 5. Goood-looking babe! 4. She's nature­
x3459. What a road lrip!!l!l\ 
hiking wi)h her boy Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 Come see me at the Dr. Babor skin Hey Jean !II!, When are you getting plas­friend Buz. Oh I see. 3. Look deep into I need 1 GA for the Rice Game. II you
LOST! BLUE EASTMAN BACKPACK through the U.S. government? Get the care and Make up Studio at Graddys tered?? (On the wall, that is) my eyeth Thpunky! 2. Let's sacrifice it to 
can help me out, call x1259 and ask for
facts today! Call 1·312-742-1142 Exi. halrsafon. Bring enough time-1 11.! Sheetarl 1.Roses die,but RAISINS LIVElast seen in the south dining hall Evelyn.
at lunch on 1012. Call 3113, 7316. hour, and any beau~ questions you HAPPY BIRTHDAY JEANII!II Love: 4-EVER 
......................... 
Marie, Marisa, Barb, Kath, Chaud, Patty, 
I.I 
ask for Peter. REWARD I may have!
THEIR LAST CHANCE TO SEE ND 
Judy, Ali WE LOVE YOU!!!!!! ROOM OF THE WEEK GAME Senior's parents will trade Rice 
...................................................... 
US 31-33 North LOST: A VIVITAR CAMERA IN BROWN TICKETS In Clock Tower Square 
GA's or $$ for Penn St. GA's Call Matt 
SOPHOMORES 313 ST. ED'S
I 
x1172 SOPHOMORES
LEATHER CASE AT SMC HOLY Phone: 272-9206 
THIS THURS, SOPH NIGHT JIM'S LOVE PALACE WHERE'S MARK? NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE
CROSS SYR. 
NEEDED-2·4 Rice GA's. Call Sue 284­
I IF YOU STOLE IT...JUST GIVE ME THE AT BARNABY'S -IN THE ARCHI BUILDING 
GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL 5063. $4 ALL YOU CAN EAT & HELLFIRE SCIZZI HOW ABOUTFILM, PLEASE. JEFF X3580 
CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE FREE TRANSPORTATION THOSE DODGERS ??
No shaving Basins in Taipei No Circus CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223-2440 I NEED 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX DON'T MISS IT!!!
Lunch in Taiwan No Bill Webb Day in LOVE EXT. 7772. 
FOR PENN ST. CALL JULIE AT 284· 
the R.O.C. Help! Reply to: Jim Carroll DEBBIE & USA 5440 T.I.Y.A.C. Room 902 30 Shin Hai Road, 
................................
I need 8 PENN GA or lwo sets of 4 Life Sec. 3 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. HEY TREE AND PUMPER (AND
FOUND: WATCH AT ND BUS STOP. HELP! I NEED 2-4 GA'S FOR RICE
or Death MEGABUCKS offerred call Tim STACY FROM SMC): ALUMNI SR. CLUB THURSDAY NIGHT CALL 2485. X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300 CALL JULIE AT 284-5342 THANKS 
AMY HOWARD YOU GUYS DID AN AWESOME JOB CUP NIGHT CATHOLICS IN BAD All of us on the home front want to STANDING SPORTS RAFFLE
WITH SENIOR TRIP!IIII
FOUND: WATCH AT ND BUS STOP. 
2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR wish you a Happy 19th Birthday yes­DRAWING BE THERE!I!I!III!!IIIICALL 2485. 
SALE 272-8863 terday!I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
We love you. CLUB TUESDAY tonight at SMC. See I NEED RICE TIXIII 
GAMES.272-6306 
Love, CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT AT SMC Austrialian folk singer Seona McDowell. LOST Let's be serious--you don't want to see 8:30-11
tie'i:j;'"iie'i:j;"iiiii:·P··;:;iii:;··;..~;;;;d· ..;s Mom, Dad, Jenny, Scott & Misty 8:30-11 Haggar Parlor Free admission 
RED, BLUE AND GREY SKI COAT us play Rice, but my family does. I need P.S. Please ask Monk to reschedule and food END GO FATAL ATTRACTION FROM SENIOR BAR COAT ROOM $20 8 tickets for the game. II you can help, the mid-semester break lor '89 so you FATAL ATTRACTION AT SMC TUES FATAL ATTRACTION Tues. Wed, Thurs 
Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much REWARD WITH NO QUESTIONS please call me at 283·1 069 ask for The $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete 
can be home lor your birthday! We WED THURS. ONLY $1. 9 & 11 CAR­9 & 11 SMC $1 Carroll Aud FATAL AT· ASKED PLEASE CALL STEVE X-4358 Beeler. miss you. ROLL AUD TRACTION
at 287-5871. 
...-----------,.;-------------------­
---~ ------~­
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
the NO Judo Club had three members place in a tournament last Sunday. Judo practices are open to anyone with no obligation. Practices are on Sunday fro~ 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and Wednesday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. m roo~ 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Any questions should be di­rected to Mike at x3470. -The Observer 
The NO Squash Club is sponsoring a talk by Harvard squash coach David Fish on Saturday at 4:30 
p.m. on squash court one of the Joyce. ACC. Coach Fish will speak on fundamentals and strategies of squash. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's soccer game Wednesday agains~ IUSB, originally scheduled for 5:30 p.m at Coveleski Stadium, now will be played at Saint Mary's at 4:30p.m. 
-The Observer 
Irish football will be the topic on Speaking of Sports tonight from 10 to 11 p.m. on WV~I-AM 640. :ralk Notr.e Dame football with Greg Guffey, VIc Lombardi and Jamie Rappis by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 
The NO-SMC Equestrian Club will participate in an all-Western show Oct. 29 and an all-English show Oct. 
30. Any members interested in showing must call Kerry at x1277 by Wednesday. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club has moved its weekly meetings to room 204 of O'Shaughnessy due to the cold weather. A meeting will be held tonight at 6:30 for all members. The team will travel to the University of Toledo this weekend. 
-The Observer 
Jack Clark has been traded by the New York Yankees 
to the San Diego Padres in return for pitchers Jimmy Jones 
and Lance McCullers and outfielder Stan Jefferson. In an­
other baseball trade, the Philadelphia Phillies dealt 
pitcher Shane Rawley to the MinnesotB: Twins for s~cond 
baseman Tommy Herr, catcher Tom Nieto and outfielder 
Eric Bullock. -Associated Press 

l~~ 
CENTER 
TEST PREI'MATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
TAKING THE MCAT NEXT APRIL? NOW fS THE TIME TO SIGN UP! WHY? 
GET FULL USE OF KAPLAN 
CENTER NOW UNTIL APRIL. 
GET HOMESTUDY MATERIALS. SAVE MONEY!! GET YOUR NOTRE DAME DISCOUNT. 
(Available only until Nov. 15) GET HOLIDAY TRANSFERS. RESERVE YOUR PLACE IN CLASS. (Class size limited.) CALL US NOW. YOU'LL BE GLAD YOU DID! 
*** 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. "SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
Belles struggle during break 
By JANE SHEA injuries, but we had strong play the game. Having been Saint Mary's Sports Editor from off the bench." defeated by Lewis 5-0 last year, Amy Ross and Anne Szweda •Saint Mary's was happy with 
The Saint Mary's soccer could not continue play due to their p~rformance. team tied Notre Dame and lost injuries. The game ended in a "l think this was one of our to Lewis Colllege in play over 1-1 tie. best game's as a team," said 
break. Adrian College forfeited Van Meter. "Mollie Meehan 
The Belles had a close game their game to Saint Mary's had her best game of the year.'' against Notre Dame on Oct. 13. Friday because their team was Neither team scored in the first injury ridden. Meehan scored the Belles' half. Saint Mary's played against only goal in the game. Goalie 
Terese Martinov scored the Lewis College Sunday. Lisa Carter also had a good Belles only goal off of a penalty The game went into overtime game and made some divingkick. The team was unable to with the score 0-0. The Belles saves which helped keep Saint capitalize on other opportuni­scored in the first overtime per­Mary's in the game.ties it had to score. iod. Lewis came back and Wednesday the Belles take 
"I was happy with the team's scored twice to win the game on Indiana University at South effort," said head coach Tom by a score of 2-1. Bend in their last home game Van Meter, "We suffered some Play was even throughout of the season. 
SMC tennis wins District title 
By HEATHER ATKINSON with Charlene Szajko to win the Junior Jen Block's singles' Sports Writer number-two doubles match 6-0, performances earned her a 6-7, 6-4. spot on the all-district singles 
The Saint Mary's tennis team "Our doubles match was team, while her combined ef-• captured its second consecu­close all of the way through the forts with freshman Marie Kos­tive NAIA District Champion­second and third games, but we cielski won them all-district ship title Oct. 14-16 at finally got it together to win in doubles honors. Manchester College. the third;" said Mayer. "We "Marie and I worked and 
The Belles' 18-1 regular­really had a great season. We fought really hard throughout season record helped to all get along well which makes the season and now it all seems 
prepare them for their District it easier and makes us more worthwhile," said Block. "This 
competition. Saint Mary's durable." is really a big honor and I'm finished in first place with 31 very happy, especially since points, followed by DePauw The IV):ayer family's talent this is only my freshman 
with 21, Taylor with 19, St. was certainly exhibited that year." Francis with 13 and Hanover weekend as Ellen was vic­with 10 points. torious, teaming with Angie Saint Mary's coach Deb 
Sophomore Sarah Mayer's Mueller for a 4-6, 6-2, 6-2 win in Laverie was named Coach of performance reflected her out­the number-three spot. the Year for the third consecu­standing season's play as she Mueller easily defeated her tive year and will now le,ad her defeated her Taylor opponent Hanover opponent in the team to the NAIA national 
6-1, 6-2, in number-three number-five singles match_ 6-1, tournament held in Kansas singles. Mayer also teamed 6-2. City in May. 
SObering Advice·.: ­
can savealife,;.~I 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before You Drive .~-·· 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
·-----------------~--------~ 
I GO TO ii MEDICAL SG OOL I i tUit\Otl~ I 
I PMD I 
I I
I Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and I fees paid in full-plus earn more than $600 a month while you attend school. I 
I 
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full deta1ls on the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. 
I 
1 
I 
We"ll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Army, Navy or Air Force. 
I 
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain 
I 
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as
I 
I 
a commissioned officer in the Reserves. 
1 
I 
After graduation. you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respec~ed 
1 
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefitS and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest med1cal 
1
I 
technology. . . I 
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Serv1ce of your cho1ce­and want to cut the expense of medical school-send for more information today.
l 
• YES1Send me full detoils on how the Armed Forces Health Prolessions Scholarship Program I
I • can help cut my medical school expenses.! meet :he age raquiremenu noted below. I understand lam under no obligation. 
I --------.,I I I 
Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships. P.O. Bo• 21155 Huntington Station. NY 11146·2102 9013 Check up to three: 0 Amoy 0 Nawy 0 Air Force 
CZI-52 "''" olo..l III·JJ J'Oin ala1•l (ll·lS "''" al11al 
1
I II 
Plouo print on lnlom11tlon cltarty and tompltllly ~~I 
11 Name f.," Mlddll IM••• Lui 0 Male 0 ftmtlft 
Address 
Apt. *:-;::::;::;:::;::=;:::;
I I I ICity State Zipl I I I I I Phone rTTl CD:J I I Soc. Sec. No. CD:J rn I I I I I
~NvmMt
I 
College Sinh Date~ 8.5 CJ,J I I 
Field of Study Graduation Dote CIJ 
I 
I I •. ...., I1 Tht information you waluntlrily provide will be vstd for rtcruiting purposes only. The mort complete II is. lhl boaor wo con 11spond to """' ~tqunt !Aulhoriry. 10 USC 5Ql ~
r-----.. -------.. ---• 
page 14 The Observer 
Clemens 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Roger Clemens of the Boston Red Sox is the best player in baseball, edging World Series hero Orel Her­shiser of the Los Angeles Dodgers, according to statisti­cal rankings for the past two years. 
The rankings, compiled by the Elias Sports Bureau and released Monday, gave Clemens a 96.203 score for the 1987-88 seasons, with Hershiser at 96.135. Frank Viola of the Minnesota Twins was third at 
96.097 and Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets fourth at 95.169, giving pitchers a sweep of the first four places. 
Outfielder Dwight Evans of Boston was. the top non-pitcher, ranking fifth with a score of 94.795. 
The best possible score of 100 has been reached only once, by first baseman Don Mattingly of the New York Yankees last year. 
-The rankings, now in their eighth season, are used to de­termine what draft choices are used as compensation for free agents. They also are used to compare players. They com­bine statistics such as batting average, plate appearances, home runs and runs batted in for hitters, and starts, innings, earned-run average, saves and strikeouts for pitchers. The sta-
Sweep 
continued from page 20 
year, started for the Hur­ricanes and allowed one run in three inningsa of work. Steve Tucker relieved Grabe and took the loss, allowing two runs in three innings. 
A surprising rout on Thursday was followed by a dramatic comeback victory on Friday. Playing before a crowd of students who made the trip from the football pep rally to Coveleski Stadium, the Irish completed the improbable by completing a sweep of Miami­-a team that has reached the NCAA tournament for 16 con­secutive years. 
about 2,000 students root us on," said Murphy. "This is a team they didn't know much about, but that's what Notre Dame's all about. It's a bunch of kids pulling together and ap­preciating all our extra­curricular activities." 
In recording a 39-22 record and a 16-game winning streak during Murphy's first year at Notre Dame last season, the Irish made a name for them­selves by winning games with last-inning rallies. In the second game of this series, Murph's magicians pulled an­other victory out of their caps. 
Trailing 6-1 in the sixth in­ning, Notre Dame scored four runs off Miami's freshman 
phenom Alex Fernandez. Sass tripled home Peltier and Lund, then Mike Rotkis pounded a two-run shot over the right field wall to close the gap to 6-5. Fer­nandez, a first-round draft pick by Milwaukee last May, left the game after the Rotkis blast. 
Sass singled in freshman left fielder Craig Counsell for an­other Irish run in the eighth in­ning, but the Hurricanes scored 
•
IS baseball's best 
tistics used vary from position 
to position. 
Philadelphia's Mike Schmidt was the top-ranked third baseman in the National League and is the only player to lead his position in all eight seasons. Gary Carter of the Mets, who led-at NL catcher for seven years, dropped to sixth. 
Ozzie Smith of the St. Louis Cardinals led NL shortstops for the fifth straight season and Ryne Sandberg of the Chicago Cubs led NL second basemen for the fifth straight year. Todd. Worrell of the Cardinals was the top NL reliever for the second straight season. 
Atlanta's Dale Murphy, who led NL outfielders from 1983-87, dropped to ninth. Pedro Guererro of St. Louis led NL outfielders, followed by Darryl Strawberry of the Mets and Kal Daniels of Cincinnati. 
At first base, Will Clark of San Francisco replaced Keith Hernandez of the Mets, who had led for four straight years. 
Hershiser succeeded Hous­ton's Mike Scott as the top NL starter. The Mets placed four starters in the NL top 12 gooden (2), Ron Darling (4), David Cone (8) and Sid Fernan­dez (12). 
Wade Boggs of Boston led at third base in the American League for-the second straight year and joined Clemens as the 
single runs in the eighth and ninth to extend their lead to 8-6. 
But the Irish literally walked away with the victory in the bottom of the ninth. Mter fresh­
man  first  baseman  Joe  
Binkiewicz  and  senior  
shortstop  Pat  Pesavento  

reached base with one out, a trio of Miami reliever& walked the next four batters to bring in the winning runs and give Notre Dame its sweep. 
"The guys realize the game's nine innings long," said Murphy. "Just because we're behind doesn't really matter. You work inning by inning to r· ···~r your opponent, and only American Leaguer to repeat. 
Mattingly, the top AL first baseman for three years, dropped to second, behind the Royals' George Brett. Matting­ly's score dropped to 87. 
Marty Barrett of Boston and Julio Franco of Cleveland tied for the lead at second base, replacing Johnny Ray of Cali­fornia. 
Alan Trammell of Detroit was the leader at shortstop, beating Cal Ripken of Bal­timore, the AL shortstop leader from 1984-87. Ripken dropped into a tie for second with Toronto's Tony Fernandez. 
Carlton Fisk of the Chicago White Sox replaced Ernie Whitt of Toronto as the AL's top catcher. Harold Baines of the White Sox and Brian Downing of California tied for desig­nated hitter, replacing Larry Parrish of Boston, who had led for two years when he was with Texas. Dennis Eckersley of Oakland replaced Mark Eich­horn of Toronto as the top reliever. 
In the AL outfield, Evans succeeded Toronto's George Bell as No.1. Kirby Puckett of Minnesota was second and Jose Canseco of Oakland was third. Bell dropped to eighth. 
that's what they did." 
Peltier went 5-of-8 during the series. During last spring's Midwest Collegiate Conference tournament, he went 4-of-4 against Evansville's Andy Benes, who was chosen by San Diego as the first pick in May's 
· draft. 
"He can hit anybody, he can go · to professional baseball right now and hit," said Murphy. "He loves the game, loves to compete and he's an Academic All-American. What more can you say about Dan Peltier? He's what Notre Dame is all about." 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
"It was a great feeling to 
Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
stand in the third base coaching box and look back and see r 
• 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 

AP Photo Despite his performance in post-season play this fall, Orel Hershlser was not the best player in baseball over the past two seasons. Boston's Roger Clemens won the honor while Hershiser was second 
in the computerized rankings. 
FOR FtJI:URE MBAs 
THESEARCHENDSHERE 
•...at the MBA Forums where you can ­
Meet representatives from 85 of the country's leading graduate management schools. Receive the free booklets The MBA and You and Financial.Aid flu·ts for Fuwre M BAs. Purchase The Official Guide for GMAT Re~·iew, Tlte Official Guide to MBA Programs, and The Official Software for GMAT Review. 
Participate in three different workshops; The MBA and You and MBA Careers (concurrent) 

Friday, 3 p.m., 4:30p.m., 6 p.m. Saturday, II a.m., 12:30 p.m., 2 p.m. Doctoral Programs 
Friday, 4:30p.m.; Saturday, 12:30 p.m. 
Call (800) 537-7982 for workshop descriptions. 
Register for the MBA Forums and w ·rkshops at the door. The charge is $5 daily. 

SENIORS 
It's Weddingless Reception Week!!!! Follow The Exciting Engagement of 
MUF:FY & BIFF 
TUESDAY: 
Muffy and Biff announce their engagement come see the BAND, enjoy REFRESHMENTS at ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 9pm-2am 
WEDNESDAY: 
Calling all BACHELORETTES!! Join Muffy at CHIPS for a night out t with the GALS! 
THURSDAY: 
It's the BACHELOR PARTY!! 
FRIDAY: 
Muffy and Biff host a REHEARSAL DINNER at JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S!! They sprang for a FREE BUFFET and more partyin' at SENOR KELLY'S 
til???? 
SATURDAY: 
This is it!!! THE RECEPTION!!! Muffy and Biff invite all to AMERICAN LEGION POST for music by CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING, dancing and more!!! 
SUrtDAY: 
Come to the WEDDINGLESS CLASS MASS 
Go crazy with Biff at THE LINEBACKER LOUNGE at Cavanaugh with Fr. Malloy followed bywith the GUYS, followed by f1,.1rther bachelor 
CLASS DINNER at the new activities! 
NORTH DINING HALL!! 
·~~~~~~==~===-~====~--~~~==~==~~====~====~~cF===~..~~~w~==~••~==~w~~=awc=====awc=d 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
Trip has ups and downs for Irish volleyball team 

By MOLLY MAHONEY that played in California and 
15 kills for a .368 hitting Sports Writer another that played in Min­percentage. nesota and Iowa. The only Shea did her part on defense 
The Notre Dame womens thing I can say is that we were as well, adding 15 digs and per­volleyball team received some travel-weary and tired from formed well offensively, chip­good news and bad news during playing two five-game matches ping in 10 kills. their October break. back-to-back. It really showed The high point of the roadtrip 
The good news was that it in our play because we all just came last Tuesday in Stockton, had survived a rollercoaster played like we were tired." Calif., when the Irish upset roadtrip and managed to tally Waller led a losing effort Pacific. the program's first two vic­against the Hawkeyes Satur­Strong offensive play from tories over top 20 teams. day, tallying a team-high 20 Bennett, Waller and Shea and And the bad news? Its six­kills for a .416 hitting an evenly balance defensive ef­
match winning streak was over percentage and adding 11 digs. fort allowed the Irish to capi­after dropping a heart-breaker Senior Zanette Bennett and talize on the Tigers efforts and to San Jose State and two dis­junior Kathy Cunningham win the match. appointing losses to Minnesota chipped in 13 and 12 kills, Bennett led the team with 22 and Iowa. respectively but even this was kills and 24 digs while Waller The Irish, seemingly on a roll not enough to generate the con­and Shea recorded 19 and 15 after defeating Kentucky who sistent offensive attack needed kills, respectively. was then ranked 7th in the na­to control the match. Waller also helped to control tion, chose the good news first, Notre Dame had easily the net defensively with five beating 15th-ranked Pacific in defeated Iowa, now 17-5, ear­total blocks and freshman set­five hard-fought games, 8-15, lier this season in the Saluki In-: ter Julie Bremner contributed 
15-7, 16-14, 5-15 and 15-12. vitational in three games and 24 digs to bring her team-high 
And their momentum almost if that loss was not enough, the total for the season up to 208. took them past 12th-ranked San Irish also lost sophomore out­The Irish will try to regain Jose State as well, but the Spar­side hitter Colleen Wagner to a some of the momentum lost tans won the tough five-game knee injury that will most after the Pacific victory as they match 15-10, 15-9, 12-15,4-15 and likely keep her on the sidelines prepare to take on a tough· Ohio 
10-15. until next season. State team tonight.
The Observer I Suzanne Poch
This was the cue for the bad The Irish had also had their The Buckeyes beat Min­
news to arrive on the scene. problems with Minnesota on Zannette Bennett had a team-high 25 kills In a tough five-game loss nesota already this season and 
Notre Dame left sunny Cali­Friday night, as they could only to San Jose State during fall break. the Irish will have to regroup fornia for the Midwest and manage a .060 hitting before beginning a three­could not get back on track percentage as a team. Notre Dame played well offensively and defensively for match stint at home in the against Minnesota or Iowa. Errant sets and spikes rarely against San Jose State last the Irish. JACC. 
The Irish fell to Minnesota in hit their mark as offensive pro­Wednesday, winning the first Bennett led the offensive "I don't feel like we're in a three games, 15-5, 15-12 and 15-4 duction came to a halt and Min­two games of the match before onslaught recording a team­slump," said Waller. "We had and then dropped a four-game nesota capitalized on the Irish the Spartans rallied behind high 25 kills for a .396 hitting a couple of days off and we match to Iowa 15-4, 15-7, 7-15 errors to win the match and tenacious defense that picked percentage and adding 15 digs seem really enthusiastic at and 15-11. raise their record to 15-5. up anything and everything the and Waller contributed 18 kills, practice so I think we play well 
"We just looked like two to­The matches against Big-Ten Irish threw at them. 11 digs and nine total blocks. against Ohio State. We've got tally different teams, said opponents were in stark con­Bennett, Waller and fellow Shewman took charge of the a good record at home and this senior middle blocker Mary trast to those the Irish played seniors Whitney Shewman and defensive for the Irish contri­is would be the best place to Kay Waller. "We had one team while on the west coast. Maureen Shea all played well buting 21 digs and also tallied get the team back on track." 
IU regroups after loss to Michigan
Film Series at the Snlte 
STAGE FRIGHT (1950) Mon<Jay 7 00 p.m. An red Hrtchcock directs th~ murder mystery about a theater student trying to clear her fiance from 
Assoeiatt>d Press It dropped the Hoosiers to 5-1-1 verines only 7-6 at the intermis­
murder charges. WHh Jane Wyman and Martene Dietrich. 
for the season and 3-1 in the Big sion before a series of 
WOMAN IN THE WINDOW (1944) Monday 9:00 p.m. 
BLOOMINGTON-Indiana's Ten, knocking them out of the "ridiculous" defensive break­
Edward G Robinson slars in th~ taut thriller about a psychiatric professor who befriends a beaut~ul 
first loss of the season cost the weekly Associated Press downs led to the second-half
woman whtle hts family ~gone, lhen is drawn Into a complex murder case. 
Hoosiers a national ranking rankings after being rated rout, Mallory said. 
BONNIE AND CLYDE (196n Tuesday 7:00p.m. 
and, more importantly, put the No.14 last week. 
"What was irking was the
Academy Award winning, trendsetting film about lhe folk hero bank robbing team of Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow. Stars Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway. 
status of injured quarterback "We'll have to go easy on way we gave up big plays. They 
Dave Schnell in question for him, see how he progresses,"
lfS ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER (1955) 
didn't knock us around," Mal­
Tuesday 9:00p.m. 
Saturday's game against Iowa, Mallory said of Schnell during lory insisted. "Sure, at times
Gene Kelly stars In a story of WWII buddies that meet ten years alter their discharge and discover 
they have nothtng In common. Great musical numbers! 
Coach Bill Mallory said Mon­his weekly teleconference on they got some yardage. But day. Monday. "It's kind of wait and 
when you look at the three bigSchnell suffered a muscle see. He's got some swelling and plays we gave 'em, we just
EUHHIE 
bruise in the lower back area he's not moving well. 
gave 'em 21 points. That's justand was replaced by punter "It's kind of a day-to-day, ridiculous." 
and backup quarterback Tom gradual thing. In the mean­"Other than that, the defense 
Bolyard during Indiana's 31-6 time, he'll get a lot of treat­didn't play that shabby,'' Mal­ment. My understanding is we lory said. "It was those darn can't do a whole lot with him big plays. It was just ridiculous early in the week.'' that we would allow them to do 
Indiana's only points against what they did." Michigan came on a pair of The Hoosiers, which had first-half field goals by kicker been one of the nation's top run­Pete Stoyanovich, yet the ning teams, were held to 89 
~CL~DE 
ONE DOLLAR OFF 
Hoosiers trailed the Wol-yards on the ground. 
.....w. ...~
any co, tape, or LP ••======== ............========:r1 
PUT YOUR
at 
COLLEGE DEGREE TO WORK. 
find the newest in 
Air Force Officer Training School progressive 
is an excellent start to a and the 
challenging career as an Air greatest in 
Force Officer. We offer great
classic rock 
starting pay, medical care, 30 
at already 
days of vacation with pay each 
low prices! 
year and management 
opportunities. Contact an 
Air Force recruiter. Find out what 
Officer Training School can mean 
for you. Call 
MAJSUTTON 317-848-5942 COLLECT 
good only at time of purchase between 10/24 and 10/28 mastercard & visa accepted 


page 16 
Bears edge 49ers in big NFC battle 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Dan Hampton and Steve McMichael led a defense that set up all of Chicago's points and shut down Joe Montana, Roger Craig and the rest of the league's leading offense as the Chicago Bears beat the San Francisco 49ers 10-9 Monday night. 
Chicago's victory, which made them 7-1 at the midway mark, ended the 49ers' 11-game road winning streak one short of a league record the 49ers tied a year ago. 
It was mostly the work of the 
front four hampton, McMic­
hael Richard Dent and AI Har­
ris Which almost completely 
shut down San Francisco after 
Montana hit Jerry Rice with a 
23-yard scoring pass on San 
Francisco's first possession. 
The 49ers, who got 97 yards 
on that initial drive, added just 
120 more in the remaining 3% 
quarters. And Craig, who en­
tered the weekend as the NFL's 
leading rusher with 764 yards, 
was limited to three carries for 
Hype 
continued from page 20 
Rockne and George Gipp are smiling. 
"This was a win by the Notre Dame spirit," said Lou Holtz. "That's all it was. It was a win by the spirit of a group of guys who just refused to fold. You can't pick out a hero. Notre Dame was the hero today." 
Pre-game anticipation for this matchup, swirling with vi­sions of revenge and reemer­gence into the ranks of the elite, could have exceeded the actual play of both teams on the field. Often "big" Game-Of-The-Century match ups fall victim to performance which does not match the hype. 
This performance matched the hype. This game was No. 1 vs. No. 4; Catholics vs. Convicts; 58-7 
vs. Pride; Lou vs. Jimmy; and so much more. 
"Usually when you have a game with this much hype and everybody is looking forward to it," said Irish head coach 
Lou Holtz, "it disappoints you. But this was a great football
game. There were some mis­takes but many of them were made by great plays. This was a game of two great teams that 
~~~M~Manre~n;J;~~=~~~ns~~~t·:tate­
ment. The Hurricanes knew 
Babies Don't Thrive 
In 
Smoke-filled Wombs 
minus-2 yards in the first half and finished with just 30 yards on 10 carries. 
Montana was 13 of 29 for 168 yards, but was just 4-of-16 for 44 yards before leaving the game in favor of Steve Young for San Francisco's final se­ries. 
The Bears had just four sacks, but they were constantly in Montana's face, particularly at key moments, includi.ng a stand that allowed just one yard midway through the fourth quarter after John Taylor's 30-yard punt return had put the ball at the Chicago 
35. Mike Cofer's 51-yard field goal attempt then fell far short. They also held the 49ers with­out a first down after their own fourth down-and-inches try at San Francisco's 45 fell short with 2:51 left. 
Chicago's only touchdown, on Jim McMahon's quarter­back sneak with 3: 38 left in the half, came after the Bears got field position at 49ers 37 follow­ing consecutive sacks by Hampton and McMichael. 
they were coming into a hor­nets' nest. They had more than a few hints that Notre Dame was not preparing for just an­other football game. 
Frank Starns remembers 1985. 
"That was the most embar­rasing game I've ever played in," said Starns after The Game. "It was a bitter pill to swallow and it stuck in my throat. 
"Until now," smiled Starns. 
Mark Green remembers the last game of his freshman year, also. 
"It is great to beat these guys before leaving here," said Green. "This has to be one of the best feelings in the world-­knocking off the No.1 team and having a great chance at the national title." 
By the time the last players I ft th 1 k · htf ll 
e e oc er room, mg a 
began to engulf the Stadium 
where the Irish had just fought 
their way into Notre Dame legend. But you could still see the results as clear as day--a Notre Dame Moment and a 6-0 Irish football team. 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988
The Observer 

AP Photo The Chicago Bears' defense, shown here against day night's 10-9 victory at Soldier Field. The win Dallas, held San Francisco In check during Mon-improved Chicago's record to 7-1. 

·n1e USF&G Sugar Bowl Fbg FootbJll Dri,·e To Cure bralysis need-.. :thle-bodied students to lwlp r:IiSL' nH H1L'\. h l''" pLI\·l-r gets a fi·et: shin. And everyonl' on thl' tem1that ui.~L'S thl'lll< >stmonL·,· on campus \vins a mini n: Plus. the t< >p mone\ r:usin~ IL':un nati<>lially gets :111 all-expense-paid trip to \le\Y Orleans lur the l'SF&G Sugar Bowl Week. · 
So ple.L'iecome uut and !'I:I\' And ma,he < H1l' d:I,. ,.< >ur hi!-Z~est fans will show theirthank<> ,,.itl astanding <W:Ition. 
USI~&tl Sugar Uowll'h1g l:uoHmll Uriw 'lh fun•l•m;llysis. 
(f.~ 
~0\'EMIIER II, 12 & 1.1 LOFTUS o\LL-SI'ORTS CE\TI·:n~ · ~ llEAllLI\E FOil TEA~l ENTI!II·:S mMiil_.... 
\0\'E\lllEil 7 ~"..:~ SI'O,\SOI!Lil II) \!J\.VAI!SITY Alii I.E.! l!'S 

~------------*iiil•••••llliiii•••••••~~~!I!JII••••••~!!IIII!IIIII!!!II----•\
VJEDD.[Nl
0
0~__-zvl c~oiPFn 
£._J J'-' 111 ~ 


When You're Pregnant, Don't Smoker 
.---------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
"It took us a while to get a feel for the wishbone (offense)," said senior defen­sive end Frank Starns, "but once we did all that was left to do was execute." 
And execute they did, as the defense led by junior linebacker Michael Stonebreaker's team-high 12 total tackles erected a roadblock that virtually stalled the Air Force attack in midstride. 
"Whenever we get there on the 40-yard line and don't make fourth down and come up a yard short, then you have to give credit to the Notre Dame defense," said Falcon coach Fisher DeBerry. 
"I really believe that the most improved part of the Notre Dame program is their defense," DeBerry continued. "Their defense is playing as good as any Notre Dame defense I've seen. Their defense might be the unsung part of their football team." 
The Irish allowed Dowis only 46 yards passing the entire game and completely shut down his replacement Lance McDowell. 
And after letting Dowis scramble to a 15-yard gain early in the first quarter, the defense tightened and even 
The Observer 
took away his running game, 
holding Dowis to 44 yards rush­
ing for the game. 
"We knew Dowis was quick on the run,'' said junior free safety Pat Terrell, "but we came in at halftime and just decided we had to come out more aggressively if we wanted to frustrate him." 
And whatever was said in the Irish lockerroom at halftime seemed to be inspirational be­cause the intensity level turned up a notch in the second )lalf. 
"The defensive line coach and defensive coordinators were not too happy at halftime," said junior nose guard Chris Zorich, who finished with eight tackles. "They told us the defense was going to have to do more than just show up for the game. They got after us and the we got after them." 
The Irish tackled the Falcons for losses six times for a total of 25 yards. When sophomore cornerback Todd Lyght wasn't making one of his seven tackles in the secondary, the defensive line was overpowering the smaller Falcon offensive line with its size and strength. 
Even Irish coach Lou Holtz 
conceded that his defensive 
squad had the size advantage 
over the Falcons. 
· "We're a little bigger and stronger than them," said Holtz. "We took the defensive package that had been in our package and worked on all week. We made a few adjust­ments and took it out of storage so to speak. 
"We played it more aggres­sively," he continued. "I thought our defense played 
very, very well in the second half." 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
' Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
l--------------~~~~1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
1 
II Reg. $8 MasterCuts 
family haircutters 1
t-------------------1 
I $5 OFF ANY PERM I 
I MasterCuts I 
I familyhaircuttasl 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
The Observer 
Win 
continued from page 20 
The Irish went on to score 
two more touchdowns in the 
second half, but Air Force's 
rushing attack, which was 
ranked first in the country en­
tering the game, could muster 
just 29 yards on 18 carries in 
the final 30 minutes. With the 
Falcons running a wishbone at­
tack and rarely throwing the 
ball, no running game meant 
no offense. 
''I was impressed by our foot­
ball team in the second half," 
said Holtz. "I've got to be 
honest with you, I thought they 
were very impressive." 
Things did not start out so easily for the Notre Dame defense. Air Force marched 41 yards on its opening drive before Irish cornerback Stan .Smagala forced an Albert Booker fumble on the Irish 18. Pat Terrell recovered to end 
the scoring threat. 
The Falcons scored the first 
points of the game on the fol­
lowing drive, as Steve Yar­
borough connected on a 22-yard 
field goal with 6: 29 to play in 
the first quarter following a 48­
yard Falcon drive. 
Notre Dame grabbed its first 
lead of the game on the next 
series. The Irish drove 71 yards 
on 11 plays, capped by Mark 
Green's seven-yard run for the 
score. Notre Dame was able to 
run at will against a smaller 
Air Force team and finished the afternoon with 267 yards on 52 carries. 
"I tried to run them out to 
the gas station and pump them 
up big, but the air hose was bro­
Saturday'• Game 
Air Force  3  10  0  0  13  
Notre Dame  7  13  14  7  41  
Scoring  

AF-Yarbrough 22-yd FG NO-Green 7-yd run (Ho PAT) AI=-Yarbrough 37-yd. FG NO-Rice 4-yd. run (Ho PAT) NO-Johnson 12-yd run (conversion failed) AF-Smith 3-yd run (Yarbrough PAT) ND-Brooks 42-yd run (Ho PAT) NO-Watters 50-yd pass from Belles (Ho PAT) NO-Watters 28-yd pass from Rice (Ho PAT) 
AF NO 
First downs 13 23 Rushing attempts 45 52 Net Yards Rushing 195 283 Net Yards Passing 46 177 Passes camp-attempted 5-11 9-15 Had intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 241 460 Fumbles-lost 1-1 1-1 Penalties-yards 7-35 6-50 Punts-average 5-37.6 3-40 Individual Leader& 
RUSHING· Air Force: Smith 13-46; Dowis 9-44; Booker 5-21; McDowell6-20; Cochran 1-15; Rober­son 8-14; Johnson 3-10; Notre Dame: Brooks 12-85; Green 11-58; Johnson 9-45; Rice 11-36; Belles 3-23; Watters 3-10: Culver 2-9; P.Graham 1-1; 
PASSING-Air Force: Dowis 9-5-0; McDowell 2­0-0; Notre Dame: Rice 13-7-0; Belles 1-1-0; K.Graham 1-1-0; 
RECEIVING-A'~r Force: Senn 2-27; Cochran 1-8; Roberson 1-6: Booker 1-5; Notre Dame: Watters 1-108; Green 2-13; Brooks 1-42; Brown 1-10; R.Smith 1-4; 
Jlttendance-59,075 
ken," DeBerry joked about his team's lack of size. "There are not many NFL teams much bigger than Notre Dame. Some of their guys it would by aw­fully hard to fit into F-16's, and that's what we're recruiting at Air Force." 
After Air Force cut the lead to 7-6 on a 37-yard field goal by Yarborough that barely cleared the uprights, the Irish struck back with two consecu­tive touchdown drives, the second of which was conducted by reserve quarterback Kent Graham, 
"I told-Tony (Rice) on Mon­day and Kent on Monday that he (Graham) would play the fourth series," said Holtz. "He's making progress. He's 
Happy 
18th 
Birthday 
Tom 
Love Mom, Dad Mike & Karen 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_game. 
At Michigan National Corporation, our goal is to be a world-~::lass banking institution that provides the finest quality service in our industry. To realize our goal, we need people who are willing to accept the c~alle~ge of be~oming the best in the business. We seek aggressive, intelligent, drive~ people who believe m o~r philo~ophy, an_d_ who 
are willing to make the sacrifices necessary to attam our goals. In return, you II work In an excrtmg, entrepreneurial environment that gives you the freedom to be ~ur best. If you are up to our challenge, we will be conducting campus interviews November 3rd. Please contact your Placement Office for further details. 
£ .. 
MichiganNational Bank 
EEO/AA Employer 
• 
page 17 
had fine weeks of practice. I 
have confidence in Kent." 
Rice, the starting quarter­back, ran from four yards away for the first score. Then, with Graham in charge, ful­lback Anthony Johnson scored on a spectacular 12-yard run. Air Force linebacker Joe Powell virtually had Johnson on the ground before the South Bend native broke out of Powell's grasp and burst in for the touchdown. 
The Air Force offense was 
able to move the ball through­
out the first half, rushing for 
141 yards on 27 carries. But the 
Falcons hurt themselves with 
constant illegal motion 
penalties on first down situa­
tions. 
"It really hurt the consis­
tency of our football team," 
said DeBerry. "You can't go 
out there with the wishbone and 
run it first-and-fifteen. It's 
been very uncharacteristic of 
our football team. It got us off 
synch and put us in a very dif­
ficult situation." 
The second half featured the 
fireworks of Ricky Watters, 
who caught two touchdown 
bombs from two different quar­
terbacks. . . sort of. 
In the closing minutes of the third period, reserve quarter­back Steve Belles lined up at tailback. After taking a pitch from Rice, the quarter­back1ailback heaved a 43-yard pass to Watters. The sopho­
more flanker brought the ball down at the seven-yard line and broke a tackle to score his first receiving touchdown of the year. 
"We ran that play in prac­tice, and I dropped it," said Watters. "I said, 'Just hang it up there, and I'll catch it.' He just laid it up there, and that's the way I like it. 
"I said there was no way anybody was going to stop me from getting in," Watters said about his ensuing struggle into the endzone. "I hadn't been there in a while.'' 
Watters caught a 28-yard touchdown pass from Rice mid­way through the fourth quarter to close the scoring at 41-13. Rice completed 7-of-13 passes for 123 yards and two touch­
downs. 
EXTRA POINTS: Representa­tives of the Orange, Sugar, Fiesta, Cotton and Hall of Fame bowls attended the 

• 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988
page 18 The Observer 
After 1-2 trip, ND hockey set for home opener 
Hockey Association, widely re­"It's almost unfair of me as too late. our schedule." 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame hockey team went 1-2 over October break, losing on Tuesday night to a seasoned Western Mic­higan squad, and splitting a pair with St. Cloud State over the weekend. The Irish open their home schedule tonight at the JACC against Alaska/Anchorage. 
Notre Dame head hockey co­ach Ric Schafer decided to waste no time getting his squad acclimated to the tough schedule it will face this year, starting the year off at Western Michigan. Last year the Broncos finished fourth· (22-17­
3) in the Central Collegiate 
Irish 
continued from page 20 When he hit diving receiver Andre Brown for an 11-yard 
on a fourth-and­touchdown 
seven play with 45 seconds left. 
That made the score 31-30. 
The Game then became The Play, as Miami tried for the two-point conversion which would have put the 'Canes ahead. But Notre Dame's defense came up with solid pass coverage when it needed it most, and Walsh's pass for Leonard Conley in the right Corner Of the end Zone Was 
batted away by Irish free Safety Pat Terrell.
"We knew we had to finish up on that last play," Terrell
said. "I saw the Miami receiver head into the corner of the end zone and just jumped in front of him. I followed Walsh's eyes the whole way. I knew where he was going to throw the football, and I don't think he saw me coming." 
Walsh did not see the Irish coming earlier in the game, either, tossing three intercep­tions and fumbling twice to Notre Dame's Chris Zorich, 
b th · ft b' h't f
0 1 
garded as one of the nation's toughest conferences. 
The Irish certainly put a scare into Western Michigan early in the game, breaking out to a 2-0 lead on first period goals by Tim Cado and Tim Kuehl. 
But that was all the offense 
Notre Dame could muster as 
the Broncos got a goal to end 
the first period, four in the 
second and three in the third to 
make the final count 8-2. 
"Obviously, we'd like to win 
them all," said Schafer, in his 
second year as Irish mentor. 
"But we knew what we were 
up against in Western Mic­
higan. They're a heckuva team 
and we just couldn't keep them · down for very long. 
Oct. 15 Game 
Miami 
Notre Dame 
~ ~! 1g ~ ~~ 
scoring 
~~~~~~:~~~~~of~:)walsh (Huerta kick) 
NO-Banks 9 pass from Rice (Ho kick) 
NO-Terrell 60 interception return (Ho kick)U~-Conley 23 pass from Walsh (Huerta kick) 
UM-Gary 15 pass from Walsh (Huerta kick) NO-Eilers 2 run (Ho kick) 
ND-Ho 27-yard field goal 
UM-Huerta 27-yard field goal UM-Brown 11 pass from Walsh (conversion failed) uM No 26 16
~i~~~~~w~:empts Net Yards Rushing ~~ 1~; ~:~!:'!~~:~:~pted 424 218
503 181 
Had intercepted -~ -~ ~~~~~~=~~:S~rds ~~! ;~~ 
Penalties-yards s-34 5_39 
Punts-average Individual Leaders t-25 4-37.7 
RUSHING-Miami: Gary t2-28; Conley 1o-21; Croweii3-7;Britton1-(-1);Walsh2-(-4);NotreDame: Brooks 13-56; Rice 21-20; Banks 7-21; Green 4-6; Watters 1-5; Johnson 2-3; Eilers 1-2; 
PASSING-Miami: Walsh 31-50-3, 424; Notre Dame: Rice 8-16-1, 195; K.Graham 2-2-0, 23; 
RECEIVING-Miami: Gary 11-130; Brown 8·125; Chudzinski 6-85; conley 3-41; Dawkins 2-35; Hill 1-8; Notre Dame: lsmail4-96; Brown 2-46; Watters t-44; Green 1-21: Banks 1-9; K.Graham 1-2; 
Attendance-59·075 
Irish defensive end Frank 
Starns. Notre Dame recovered 
four Hurricane fumbles on the 
afternoon, and took advantage 
of the Miami turnovers to keep 
pace with what is perhaps the 
most explosive team in the 
country. 
Irish quarterback Tony Rice 
engineered first-half drives of a coach to put my team, espe­cially the younger players like (freshman wing) Mike Curry, into a situation like that. But that's the caliber of competi­tion we're going to be seeing all year. I thought we played pretty well, all things consid­ered." 
Friday night the Irish dropped a tight 4-3 contest to St. Cloud State, and then rebounded on Saturday to take game two 3-2. 
On Friday, the Irish entered the third period tied at two by virtue of goals by Bruce Guay and co-captain Matt Hanzel. But St. Cloud State tallied twice early in the third to put the feisty Irish away. A late goal from Bil Hoelzel was too little 
to give Notre Dame leads of 7-0 and 14-7. Rice scored from seven yards out with 3:36 left in the opening quarter, and hit Banks with a nine-yard pass for the SeCOnd-quarter SCOre.
Th I ' h th t k th · b' 
e riS en 00 eir Ig­
gest lead of the game when
W J h 1 d d h t l b 
a s un oa e a s or o un­
der pressure that fell into Ter­
11' h d Th · · d 
re s an s. e JUmor race 60 yards for a touchdown and a 21-7 Irish lead. 
But the Hurricanes needed slightly more than five minutes to erase that margin. 
Walsh avoided an Irish blitz on fourth down with a quick toss to Conley that went for a 
23-yard tOUChdOWn and made the score 14-7-Miami called 
two timeouts during the next Irish possession, got the ball 
back ' and finished a 54 -yard drive with a 15-yard touchdown pass from Walsh to running back Cleveland Gary with 21 seconds left in the half. "I thought if we could get the lead, we could have the bal­lgame won," said Miami coach Jimmy Johnson. "I thought we could take control of the bal­!game." To that end, Johnson called a fake punt with the score still tied in the third quarter, but the Hurricanes ran the play to 
Guay came up with what would be the game-winner in the second half of the twinbill, scoring at 11:20 of the third per­iod to put the Irish up 3-1. Second line members Bob Her­ber and Bob Bilton also scored early in the game. 
"I think we might have gone in a little bit intimidated," said Schafer. "Both teams were big­ger and faster than we were, especially Western Michigan. It's something I'm sure we'll get used to as time goes on. 
" (Goaltender) Lance Mad­son played just super in the St. Cloud State series. He was definitely the shining star of the week. We're going to need him to play well if we're going to be tough against the majority of 
defense, and Steve Belles stopped Matt Britton for a loss on the Miami 46-yard line. 
Rice hit Ricky Watters on a 44-yard sideline pattern on the next play, and Pat Eilers scored a two-yard touchdown to end the 13-second drive and give the Irish a 28-21 lead. 
Notre Dame's Reggie Ho and Miami's Carlos Huerta ex­changed short field goals to make the score 31-24, and the 'Canes then looked as if they would tie the game midway through the fourth quarter. But the most controversial play of the game might have cost Miami a touchdown. 
On fourth-and-seven from 
the 11-yard line, Walsh hit Gary cutting across the middle for 
what would have· been a sure first down. But as Gary fell for­ward in his attempt to cross the goal line, the ball came loose and Irish linebacker Mike Stonebreaker recovered it at the 1-yard line. If the officials would have ruled that the ground caused the fumble, Miami would have either retained possession or been credited with a touch­down. . "We had first-and-one and the ball was turned the other 
Although Notre Dame hockey fans may not be accus­tomed to the Tuesday night start tomorrow night, Schafer expects a good turnout for the 
7: 30 faceoff against Alaska/Anchorage, an old rival of his from his days at Alaska-Fairbanks. 
"Yeah, we used to play them six or eight times a year when I coached up there," said ~ Schafer of Alaska/Anchorage. ' "One year, 1980, they beat us eight in a row. The game cer­tainly won't be a breather for us. We'd better be ready to play. I know it's a school night and all, but hopefully we'll get a pretty good-sized crowd for the home opener." 
something I don't understand. It wasn't a fumble. He (Gary) had it in his hand and he went straight to the ground with the ball. It wasn't a fumble. 
"But it shouldn't have come down to that. There's no way you can make as many mis­takes as we made and win the ballgame. But as many mis­takes as we made--and we made a ton of them--in my mind we should have won the game." 
After The Play kept the Irish ahead by a point, ND fullback Anthony Johnson fell on the on­side kick to preserve the vic­tory. 
Thali<s to you... it works ... for ALL OFUS 
•
Unitedway 
commg a er Ig s rom 75 and 80 yards, respectively, the overloaded side of the Irish wa " Johnson said. "That's ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil
•.................................... ......................~.................. 
lt-IllALUMNI lt-
ii!:CLUB i
.. .. 
: SENIORS! : 
.. ..
.. .. 
: Want Senior Formal to be an : 
.. .. 
: Awesome Event? : : Then Come by the CLUB on Thurs.: 
,.. N. h ,..
: 19 t to see the : :"CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING" :
.. ..
.. .. 
~ and partake in the 1st Annual :
. .. 
: Senior-Formal : 
.. .. 
:SPORTS SPECTACULAR RAFFLE:
. .. 
: Extravaganza!! : 
.. .. 
: Buy raffle tickets at the dining halls :
.. .. 
: on Tues. and Wed. Nights and at : : your CLUB on Wed & Thurs Nights. : : Drawing held on Thurs. at 1:00 a.m. : 
. ... 
.. .. 
: Also Remember, as always, : 
: Thurs. is CLUB NIGHT : 
•...................................~ 

\\Ke. to tr-ave\ dorre.s-t\cQ\\'fr Norrt -ro vic;;.;t <l foreign C.OUf\try f need pructica\ bu~iness e~fer-\encd" 

too~("3 for so~\n9 ~cod +o ~t on you.r f'C ~u. Y'f\6 ? 
5ear'chcn9 for-o. job?
re, you 
ft\"\erested if\ tl\ter"r\c:rl1ono.\ affu,~ 
•••. lhen '{OU Should jo\n 
AIESEC 
Genera\ Meet\ng Tuesday) October 2S 7:30pm Room \14 Ha'fes-HeQ\y 
All majors and classes welcome.! 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988 
The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
11 :30 a.m. Gender Studies Colloquium with Profs. John D'Emilio and Estelle Freedman, Library Lounge. 
. 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Gandhi as 
Mediator Between East and West," by Prof. Fred Dallmayr, 
131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:30 p.m. College of Science Lecture "Origins of Cell Motility," by Prof. Lynn Margulis, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
7 p.m. SMC Volleyball vs. Manchester, Angela Athletic I<'acility. 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Bonnie and Clyde," directed by Arthur Penn, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 
p.m. Hockey vs. U. of Alaska, Anchorage, JACC Fieldhouse. 

7:30p.m. Volleyball vs. Ohio State, JACC Arena. 

7:30 
p.m. AISEC meeting in Room 124 Hayes Healy Center. New members from all majors and classes may attend. 


9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "It's Always Fair Weather," directed by Gene Kelly, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cheese Croissant Top Round of Beef Sweet & Sour Pork Seafood Newburgh 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Jerks 
MEAtl'Jil\LE, AT N.D. STADIUf{ KE'V, DID YOU [!,I\ INC. THE LII=E·UK.E DUMMY THAT WE PASS A~OUND LIKE A 
G.IP..L AND EVENTUALLY 
TO!.S OVER TilE EDuE OF THE .STADIUM •.• 
r;A1E I 

Saint Mary's 
Broccoli Stuffed Fish Spaghetti Quiche Lorriane Deli Bar 
ACROSS 29 Lose force 
·1 Emulate beavers 30 Buttons or 
Skelton5 Fragment 33 Slenderized1 o Gush forth 36 Bridge expert 14 Shakespearean Sharifvillain 
37SI­
15 Self-assurance (Leeward island) . 16 Jacob's th1rd 38 Sockol
son 39 Tee shot
11 Old Glory 40 K1nd of chamber
20 Lift 41 Linguistic forms 
21 An1mal doc 43 "Norma-·~
22 Spacious 23'More orderly 44 Type of bread 25 Independent 45 A.F.T. f1val 26 Motor coach 46 Six-pointers 28 Fng1d 47 Feds 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

49 Stone foundation 51 "-Grows in Brooklyn" 53 Spanish aunt 54 Mutton and veal 57 Mortimer 
Snerd's fnend 60 Spiral 61 Fear 
62 Btl of news 63 Melody 64 Move sideways 65 Watches 
DOWN 
1 Lillian of acting fame 
2 Alliance letters 3 Displeasing 4 From bad to 
5 Bad Ems. e.g 6 Fit to be 
transported 7 Added clause 8 Vice prin., e.g. 25 Topmast 36 Mountain 50 Eagle's nest 9 Favorite support Comb. form 51 Nos. person 
26 Pieman
10 Thm mud 39 Cosmic order, in 52 One grand, for 11 "Peanuts" Buddhism
27 City in the short Empire State
character 53 Actress Garr
41 Author Rand29 Fiendish
12 Daredevil 55 "Of-· I Sing" 
31 Like chalet roofs 42 VigorKnievel 
56 Sylvia-,
32 Trim 44 Stagger
13 Sagacious British leading 
34 Ike's WW. II 
18 Blots 48 Actress Oberon lady
command 19 Almost unique 35 Soviet chess 49 Coated with 58 Psyche parts 24 Fort Worth 1nst expert hoarfrost 59 Alphabetic tno 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
"So then I says to Borg, 'You know, as long as we're under siege, one of us oughta moon these Saxon dogs.'" 
Think 


of your
Wish your friends a·happy 
best friend. 
{
birthday with Observer 
Now, think of your
advertising. 

best friend dead.
Call 239-6900 
Dm'tdrive dnmk. 
Reader's Dlg•t 

Sports 
Tuesday, October 25, 1988
page 20 
Notre Dame is No. 2 and golden· again 
lrish·edge 'Canes, boost title chances 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
A season of hype came down to three hours of football, and three hours of foot­ball came down to one play with 45 seconds left on the clock. 
And when Steve Walsh's pass came down in the end zone, down with it fell Miami's 36-game regular-season winning streak, No. 1 ranking and recent dominance of Notre Dame football. 
The Notre Dame student body came down as well, rushing onto the field to celebrate the 31-30 victory that gave birth to hopes of the next Irish national cham­pionship and pushed Lou Holtz' squad to No.2 in the nation. 
"This was a win by the Notre Dame spirit," said Holtz after the Oct. 15 contest that boosted the Irish to 6-0 and ended the frustration of humbling Notre Dame losses to the Hurricanes in 1985 (58-7) and 1987 (24-0). Notre Dame improved its mark to 7-0 with this past Saturday's 41-13 victory over Air Force. 
"This was a win by the spirit of a group of guys who refused to fold,'' Holtz con­tinued. "The spirit of Notre Dame was something we talked about all week and I congratulate our players...It was a great game of two great teams who just competed as hard as anything I've ever seen." 
Not many college football games receive the hype this game received. Even less are able to live up to such a billing. 
This one did. 
Notre Dame led the whole way. But Walsh, who completed 31 of 50 passes for 424 yards, a career high for the Reisman Trophy candidate and the most passing yardage ever given up by Notre Dame, rallied the Hurricanes to within a point 
see IRISH, page 18 Notre Dame quarterback Tony Rice scrambles from Miami defender Bill Hawkins during the 31-30 Irish victory over the top-ranked Hur­ricanes Oct. 15. The win vaulted Notre Dame to the No. 2 spot in the Associated Press college football poll. 

Second half keys ND over Falcons 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
The post-Miami letdown that everyone feared~eemed eerily close to reality when Air Force was thinking upset and trailing Notre Dame by just a touchdown at halftime. 
Unfortunately for the Falcons, the Irish weren't thinking upset at all and proceeded to outscore Air Force 21-0 in the second half of a 41-13 rout that im­proved Notre Dame's record to 7-0. 
"We won the football game, and that's what we wanted," said Holtz. "I thought that in the second half, we dominated the game. We fought for our lives in the first half. At halftime, this was a real football game." 
The game appeared to change direc­tions in the first drive of the second half. The Falcons, 5-3, had scored on a three­yard run by fullback Andy Smith with 1: 57 left in the first half to pull to within a touchdown of the second-ranked Irish. 
"We had to go back out there in the second half and make something happen," said DeBerry. "If we could have stopped them and gotten the football, it would have given our team the confidence and mo­mentum it needed." 
Instead, Notre Dame methodically drove to the Air Force 42-yard line, where Tony Brooks took a screen pass and raced 
down the left sidelin~  for  a  touchdown.  
Reggie  Ho's  ensuing  extra  point  gave  
Notre Dame a 27-13 lead.  

"We were always confident," said Brooks, who led all runners with 85 yards on 12 carries. "That's the attitude everybody has. We have so many good players. Our attitude is 'Don't flinch.' If we don't flinch, good things will happen. It's just a matter of time." 
see WIN, page 17 
Sweep of Miami big step f9r Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
When the Notre Dame­Miami baseball series was announced last month, Hur­ricane coach Ron Fraser drew a chuckle by saying Notre Dame would be a great challenge to his team. 
Maybe Fraser knew some­thing after all. 
The upstart Fighting Irish shocked collegiate baseball circles by sweeping Miami 11-2 and 9-8 Oct. 13-14 at South Bend's Stanley Coveleski Stadium. The two losses dropped Miami's fall exhibition season record to 12-3-1. 
"These are probably the two biggest wins the pro­gram has ever had, to be able to play a program like Miami," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "I think it's a statement that Notre Dame baseball is for real. 
"We're a long way from where we want to be, but it's an indication of what these guys can do," Murphy con­tinued. "We can go up against the number-one team in the country with their two top pitchers and come out." 
Miami is returning only 
two players from the start­
ing eight that went to the Col­lege World Series and com­piled · a 52-14-1 record last season. But the Hurricanes did play what is expected to be their starting lineup next spring. 
"No question about it, they played their number-one team," said Murphy. "There's no way they'd be part of this series and not play to bury us." 
It was the Irish who did all the burying in the opener of the two-game series. Notre Dame held a 2-1 lead after six innings, then took advan­tage of six unearned runs in the seventh to take control. 
Right fielder James Sass and second baseman Mike Moshier led Notre Dame with three hits apiece, while centerfielder Dan Peltier and catcher Ed Lund each added two hits. 
Junior Erik Madsen recovered from a rocky start that saw him hit the first three, and four of the first six, Miami batters to step to the plate. The senior righthander allowed just one run in seven innings to earn the win. Mike Coffey gave up one run in two innings to finish for the Irish. 
Joe Grabe, who recorded a 13-5 record for Miami last 
see SWEEP, page 14 
Week of hype ends with big win 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
It was The Big Game with The Big Hype. But after 60 minutes what mattered most was that it was The Big Win. 
Several pictures come to mind when one recalls the events of Oct. 15, 1988: 
• Frank Starns drilling previously-untouchable Miami quarterback Steve Walsh and forcing two fumbles. 
"I just want to get back there and touch him and see if he's real," said Starns before the game. He did. 
• Jeff "Tree" Aim's limbs pul­ling down a low Walsh pass and rejecting another. 
"I knew Walsh was throwing right over the line and I'm a tall guy so I thought I might have a chance to get one," said Alm. He did. 
• Tony Rice airing it out like he's never done before, hitting Rocket Ismail and Ricky W at­ters to set up Irish touchdowns. 
"Today proved we really do have a good offense and a good defense--we're a complete foot­ball team," said Rice. 
• Pat Terrell swooping under a tipped Walsh throw and racing for paydirt, then stopping the most important pass of the 68 throws that day on the two­point conversion. 
"I can go home (to Florida) and smile again," said Terrell. 
A bevvy of forced turnovers for the Irish and Hurricanes alike. A plethera of clutch plays by the Irish and Hurricanes alike. Outstanding college foot­ball by the Irish and Hur­ricanes alike. Another one in the win column for the Irish, and only the Irish. 
But long after the videotapes become fuzzy and unclear after incessent playing, images of a proud football team, student body and faithful following will remain. For Oct. 15 was a day for the spirit of the University of Notre Dame duLac. You can be sure Father Sorin, Knute 
see HYPE, page 16 
Defense overpowers Air Force 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Execution. 
The Air Force Falcons prob­ably feel as if they witnessed their own in the second half against the Irish last Saturday. 
But in reality, it was Notre Dame's defense that did all the executing Saturday afternoon by holding Air Force to a season-low 170 rushing yards. 
Air Force came into the game as the nation's top rush­ing team, averaging 432 yards on the ground per game. The Falcons were prolific scorers 
as well, tallying 46.4 points per contest prior to facing the Irish. And in the first half the Fal­
.cons seemed intent upon showing Irish fans that they were not the only ones with a quarterback who could run. 
Falcon quarterback Dee 
Dowis, always a threat to run 
out of the wishbone formation, 
had helped the Falcons rack up 
640 yards rushing in their vic­
tory over Utah the previous 
week. 
"I feared Air Force's wish­
bone because they run it so well 
and do it so well," said Irish 
head coach Lou Holtz. "They certainly ran it well in the first half." 
The Air Force offense scored all 13 of their points in the first half on 141 rushing yards and kept the game interesting for those brave enough to battle the South Bend drizzle and cold temperatures. 
But Notre Dame's defense came out after halftime and played with a vengeance, hold­ing Air Force to only 39 yards. 
That is when the execution began. 
see DEFENSE, page 17 










