
• 
Easing Into fall 
IACCENT: Summer in South Bend A 20 percent chance of showers early Tuesday, then 
becoming partly sunny. High 
in the middle to upper 70s.
IVIEWPOINT: Belfast: the divided city 
Mostly clear Tuesday night. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 16 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 13 1988 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

High winds, rain ravage Jamaica 
Associated Press Jamaica was being deluged by rain late Monday. 
Hurricane Gilbert slammed It said the eye of the storm into Jamaica on Monday with was centered at latitude 18.3 torrential rains and 115 mph north and longitude 77.8 west, winds, ripping the roofs off over western Jamaica.

-. buildings, pounding beachfront "The eye of the storm moved resorts, and spawning flash right lengthwise down the is­floods and mudslides. land," said Bob Sheets, Na­
···---­
-· 
The brunt of the storm lashed tional Hurricane Center direc­Kingston on the southwest tor. "The eye is on the western coast, knocking down power tip of Jamaica and will be lines, uprooting trees and flat­moving toward the Cayman Is­tening fences. On the north lands." coast, 20-foot waves hit Ocho Sheets said the Cayman Is­Rios, a popular resort where lands has a dearth of sheltered tourists were evacuated from areas. hotels. "They're very flat, there's 
In Kingston, authorities said not a lot ·of places people can looters stole mattresses from a go to get refuge," Sheets said. hospital, the roof was torn off Cayman Island Airlines was a home for physically handi­running flights every two hours capped people and a firefighter to Miami to evacuate as many 

Senior Chris Ramsey presses out his first monoprint, of Art and Design. Projects like this one might even was hurt when heavy winds people as possible before the a unicolored image, in the Edna and Leo Riley Hall appear on T-shirts. blew him off his truck. hurricane hit, said airline The hurricane was churning spokesman Claude Chisolm. toward the Cayman Islands, Gilbert reached Jamaica
Children fast in troubled Burma 
flat islands with few sheltered after skirting southern Puerto areas, the National Weather Rico, Haiti and the Dominican Associated Press tary should support the govern­did not interfere with the Service in Coral Gables, Fla., Republic. Hurricane warnings ment's plan to supervise mul­protesters, who dispersed reported. were issud Monday for the 
Thousands of anti-tiparty elections soon. peacefully. Only minor injuries were re­south coast of Cuba east of government demonstrators Saw Maung said the military In their first joint statement, ported in Kingston, the capital Camaguey, the Cayman Is­marched through Rangoon on had allowed protesters to dem­opposition leaders again city with 750,000 people. The lands, and Haiti, while warn­Monday, and opposition onstrate freely "to avoid possi­demanded the formation of an National Weather Service re­ings were discontinued for the leaders demanded that an in­ble misunderstandings amidst interim government to lead the ported heavy damage to Dominican Republic. terim government be ap­various attempts to discredit transition to democracy. Kingston's airport and aircraft In Kingston, a policeman suf­pointed to supervise multi­the armed forces by way of Opposition leaders Aung Gyi, parked on its fields. fered a broken leg when a fence party elections. spreading false rumors, former Defense Minister Tin The initial30-minute shock of fell on him, another resident 
In other developments, more propaganda and exaggera­Oo and Aung San Suu Kyi listed the storm let up as the hur­was injured when a wall col­than 1,000 school children tions." their demands in a letter to ricane's eye moved across the lapsed, and a firefighter fasted in support of the Many thousands of student­Maung Maung. A copy was city. Skies brightened, winds answering an emergency call protesters, and the military led demonstrators marched given to The Associated Press. died and people waited for an was hurt when the wind blew said it would shoot through the capital, shouting The government did not imme­hour before the second blow ar­him off the fire truck, the dis­demonstrators found spread­demands for an interim gov­diately respond to the letter. rived. aster office reported. ing a report that two armed ernment and multiparty None of the opposition All Jamaica-bound flights In Washington, the Navy re­forces commanders had democracy. At least five sepa­leaders have specified who were canceled at Miami Inter­ported its bases at Guan­threatened to join the protest. rate groups were counted, and should be in the interim gov­national Airport. tanamo Bay, Cuba, and 
Gen. Saw Maung, Burma's estimates of the total number ernment, saying only it should A national Weather Service Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, defense minister and armed of protesters ranged from comprise people outside the report at 6 p.m. EDT said the had taken various precaution­forces chief of staff, said in a 10,000 to more than 100,000. ruling Burma Socialist Pro­hurricane was moving west at ary steps but appeared to be nationwide broadcast Monday More soldiers were seen on gram Party and who are "ac­17 mph with maximum sus­safe from the brunt of the hur­night that the public and mili-the streets Monday, but they ceptable to all the people." tained winds of 115 mph. It said ricane. 
Speaker focuses on women 
By SHANNON RYAN News Staff  the communications industry,'' explained Zennie, regional vice-president of the Great  versity and became chapter president in her senior year. She joined Theta Sigma Pi in  
Carol Zennie  spoke  at  the  Lakes Region chapter.  1972  <before  the  name  was  


Couple choose same winning combination 
Associated Press Nowicki selected his num­
bers from a group of "lucky 

An Indiana couple unwit­numbers" he received in two tingly chose the same win­fortune cookies at a Chinese ning numbers in the Illinois restaurant, Worley said. Lottery's Cash 5 drawing, a Mrs. Nowicki, who accom­spokeswoman for the lottery panied her husband when he said Monday. bought his winning ticket, 
Keith and Frances purchased a "quick-pick" Nowicki, who own a grocery­computer generated ticket, meat market in South Bend, which coincidentally held In., both will receive $59,276 the same numbers her hus­for selecting the winning band had selected. numbers 11, 13, 19, 24 and 29 The two t9ld lottery offi­in Friday's Cash 5 drawing, cials they were not aware said spokeswoman Carrie they had the same numbers Worley. Four others also se­until they watched the lected the winners and will drawing Friday. receive the same cash prize, They said they would use 
she said. the money to pay bills. 
second annual kick-off meeting for the Saint Mary's College chapter of Women In Commu­nications, Inc (WICI) Monday evening in LeMans Hall. The topic of her presentation was "Leading Change: What WICI Can Do For You and Your Career." 
"WICI is a national organi­zation for women in all fields of communications dedicated to working for First Ammend­ment rights and responsibili­ties of commnunicators, recog­nizing distinguished professional achievements, and promoting high profes­sional standards throughout changed to WICI) and eventu­ally went on to become presi­dent of the Dayton, Ohio, chap­ter and, through her continued involvement. was elected to her current position in 1986. As regional vice-president, Zennie also serves on the National Board of WICI. 
According to Zennie, "The mission of WICI is 'leading change.' This organization em­powers its members to lead change in their careers, com­munity and families; the pos­sibilities are endless. Those who embrace it (the club's mis-
see ZENNIE, page 3 

IN BRIEF 
Joseph Blenkinsopp, John A. O'Brien Professor of 
Old Testament Studies at the University of Notre Dame, 
has been elected president of the Catholic Biblical Asso­
ciation for the 1988-89 academic year. Blenkinsopp, a mem­
ber of the Notre Dame faculty since 1970, holds degress 
from th~ University of London, the Internatonal Theologi­
cal Institute of Turin, and Oxford. A specialist in Old Testa­
ment studies, he has coordinated several archeological 
projects at Capernaum and published numerous books and 
articles on biblical theology. His book, Ezra-Nehemia: A 
Commentary, is forthcoming from Westminster Press. ­
The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
Value Check Coupon Books ordered over the summer are ready to be picked up at the Information Desk in LaFortune from noon to 9 p.m. -The Observer 
NAACP General Meeting at 7:00 p.m. in 124 
Hayes-Healy. Dr. E. Peters will speak as part of the Aca­
demic Success Series after the meeting. -The Observer 
Business students interested in a career in accounting should meet representatives from 20 firms from 7:00 to 
10:00 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the Joyce ACC. Spon­sored by Beta Alpha Psi. -The Observer 
POW/MIA Awareness Week will be sponsored by the Arnold Air Society and Air Force ROTC. There will be a POW/MIA flag on the flagpole on South Quad all week, a movie on Wednesday, a mass and talk show on WVFI on Thursday, and a flag retreat ceremony on Friday. -The Observer 
The College of Engineering will sponsor a trip to the AMOCO plant near Chicago for all Minority Enginee­ring students and Freshmen intents. Trip will depart at 
7:30 a.m. on Sept. 16 and return at 4:00 p.m. Sign up in 118 Cushing or call 239-6092. -The Observer 
Campus Ministry is sponsoring a baptism information meeting at 7:00 p.m. and a confirmation information meeting at 8:00p.m. in the Campus Ministry Office, Badin Hall. -The Observer 
Campus Ministry is holding a meeting for those interested in being sponsors for baptism at 7:00p.m., and sponsors for confirmation at 8:00p.m. in the Campus Min­istry Office on Tuesday, Sept. 20. -The Observer 
A Palanca writing session forpastNDE participants will be held at 9:00p.m. in the PW Chapel. Call Peter Smith at 283-3683 for more information. -The Observer 
The Graduate Student Union will hold a general council meeting at 7:00p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. All summer representa­tives and anyone interested in representing their depart­ment should attend. -The Observer 
The PreProfessional Society will have a speaker from the South Bend Blood Bank at 7:00 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. -The Observer 

Design Editor............ . . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout . . Mora Fox Design Assistant ........... Karen New love Accent Copy Editor ............ Mike Restle Typesetters............ .. .. ... .. .. .. Tim Kiefer Accent Design Editor ....... Mike Conway ............................................. Mike Kolar Typists..... .. .. . Diana Bradley News Editor.............. ....... Sara Marley ............................................. Will Zamer Copy Editor .................. Christine Walsh ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey Photographer......................... Bob Jones Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Mike Truppa 
Tille O!Menet" (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TM O!Menet" is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tille Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
TM O!Mener is a member of TM Auoclated Pftu. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 


For me, every morning is a "rude awaken­ing." 
Some people actually leap out of bed at daybreak, bright eyed and bushy tailed, ready to greet the new day. 
I, on the other hand, sort of slither out. I guess you could say I'm much more likely to "sigh and whine" than "rise and shine." 
Typically, my alarm yanks me out of Dream­land around 8 o'clock. The alarm continues to emit frantic beeps until a) my roommate shuts it off, or b) I pummel it to death -whichever comes first. 
In the past, my alarm clocks have been the victims of frequent abuse. As a result, each tends to have a rather short life span. They generally last about a week or two. Then, one particularly unwelcome morning, I'll officially declare the device "Satan's spawn" and proceed to bludgeon the beast into oblivion. 
These, however, are drastic measures. 
Usually, I opt for much more peaceful alter­natives, such as the "snooze button." In my book, the invention of the snooze button ranks right up there with the discovery of electricity and indoor plumbing. 
After exhausting my snooze button quota, I groggily grope for my glasses and spend the next several minutes cursing morning people, mornings and people in general. 
Then, turning the alarm to the "radio" mode, I burrow myself deeper under the covers and bury my head beneath the pillow, vowing to face the world after "just one more song." I generally belt from beneath the blankets one hour and two CDs later, with three minutes to dash to class. 
These brisk 30-second sprints do seem to revi­talize me, however. At any rate, they certainly help me achieve at least momentary alertness. 
My friends will readily attest that "Hell hath no fury like Michelle awakened." God help the poor soul who interrupts my nightly date with the Sandman. 
I see my roommates flipping coins every night before bed and, although they assure me they're just practicing up on some old finite math problems, I know better. They're really trying to determine who'll be unlucky enough to rouse me out of my lethargic condition the following morning. 
I guess I can hardly blame them, though. Waking me up in the morning is sort of like Saint George facing the dragon unarmed. 
I remember those long lost days of yes­teryear, when I'd eagerly leap out of the sack on Saturday mornings and tiptoe downstairs to catch a quick hour of cartoons while Mom and Dad were still "sawing logs" upstairs. I treasured those early hours, when the morning belonged to just me, Road Runner and Scooby Doo. 
Eventually, however, Monday would roll around, and I'd be back to my old self again-
SAI.T IURT'S COLLEGE 


The Observer I Bob Jones Juniors Mike Davis, and 'Psycho' Pociask, and senior sales offers a tasty late night alternative to dining hall Abe Desantis (left to right) keep spinning out those fare. 
pizza pies last night at Zahm Hall Food Sales. Food 
That's Italian 
By JENNIFER GRONER 
Staff Reporter 
The Student Senate approved topics and chairpersons for stu­dent reports to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees during its weekly meeting held Monday night. 
Pete Gutrich was appointed chairperson for the Co­Residential Housing Report. The evaluation of the Student Activities Fee Report will be chaired by Mike Moynahan. Steve Bishop, Missy Dill, and Kenny Fitzpatrick are chair­persons for the Student Trans­portation Report, and the Campus Parking Report will be chaired by Karen Flaherty. 
Student Senate President Tom Doyle announced that an amendment to the student con-

Input Table called a success zennie 
By JOANNA GRILLO 
News Staff 
The Student Input Table sponsored by Student Govern­ment last Friday was a big suc­cess, according to Lisa Hill, vice president for Student Af­fairs. 
Hill's announcement came at Monday 's Saint Mary's 
According to Hill, turnout was so great that Student Gov­ernment may sponsor another table before the semester ends. 
Students praised the visibility of their Student Gov­ernment. 
Club Tuesday also received rave revues from all who atten­ded the event, which was spon­sored by the Student Activities 


Board meeting. Board. The next Club Tuesday 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP
. 





Bible Study 
This Thursday 7pm, we'll meet in 309 Grace. Just come and see! If you want to join us later or have any questions, please call Jim (283 IG21) or Andreas (287 4855). 
J.KAPLAN 

-IMPORTANT NOTICE­( Good News!!) 
A second LSA T prep course for the 10/1/88 test will be starting at the Kaplan Center immediately. If. you were unable to enroll or if you are a transfer from another Kaplan Center and were not able to get a seat in Class I, please call the South Bend Kaplan Center right away for class dates and times. You will have the same instructor. Please do not delay if you want a seat in Class II. We regret any inconvenience caused due to increased demand for our LSA T prep course for the 10/l/88 test. 
Kaplan Educational Center 1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 


Senate approves topics for report 
features Sean and the Sun continued from page 1 Kings on September 20th from . sion) do more than participate, 
8:30 untilll p.m. in the Haggar they lead, they initiate." Parlor. "The national networks of 
Freshmen class elections contacts is the best reason to will take place on September join," said Zennie. The organi­
20. Seventeen PresidentiaWice zation publishes a national Presidential tickets and fifty­directory that can be four council members have "instrumental in gaining jobalready expressed an interest opportunities," she continued. in running, according to Hill. Members work in a variety of 
"We had a lot of students fields including education, ad­sign-up on Student Activities vertising, photojournalism, Night, but it is exciting to see public relations, publishing, that many freshmen follow radio and television. "There's through and get involved,'' said something for everyone in Hill. WICI," Zennie maintained. 
..--11111!1!~...--•••11!1••••••••••.. tional seminar, open to both 

Hey Dave! 
HAPPY 

21ST 

BIRTHDAY! 
Lots of Love from the Five of Os. 

stitution will be considered and debated at the next meeting. 
This amendment would man­date Senate meetings for all voting members. It would stip­ulate that three absences by a voting members would require a review by the Senate with the possibility of impeachment of the Senator. 
According to Doyle the pur­pose of this proposed amend­ment is to make the penalty for absenteeism more defined. 
Other business covered at the meeting consisted of officer reports. 
Senators are planning to have news letters to the mem­bers of their respective dis­tricts completed by next week. 
An election will be held on Thursday to elect a new repre­sentative for District Two. 
Zennie credits WICI for lan­ding her first job out of college, special projects coordinator at Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio. "At WICI I learned to be a professional. A lot of times you don't learn that at your job. I also learned how to communicate well on a one­to-one basis." As Community Relations Director at Fort Hamilton-Hughes Memorial Hospital in Dayton, Ohio, Zennie is responsibile for com­munity relations, advertising, public relations, marketing and media relations so the skills she acquired through WICI "are very useful." 
Each year WICI holds a na­

student and professional mem­bers, which consists of a series of career-oriented speeches delivered by experts in their field. "The seminars are really intense," said Zennie, "but I learn something new every year. I would eventually like to speak at a seminar, when I feel I've reached expert status in my field." 
The Saint Mary's chapter, only in its second year, was of­ficially recognized when Zennie presented the Chapter 
President, Saint  Mary's  stu­ 
dent  Beth  Kelly,  with  its  
charter.  

HEY STUDENTS! 
The East Race Inn, South Bend's NEW all-suite hotel, is now accepting room reservations for all Notre Dame football games! At the East Race Inn, you will experience the luxury and convenience of our loft and studio suites, complete with fully stocked kitchens, fireplace, balcony or patio. A complimentary breakfast is served daily; in the Gatehouse. 

716 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, Indiana 


To make reservations, please call (219) 289-5555. 

~---~ 





Pilot gives evidence in trial 

Associated Press 
Shiite Moslem kidnappers freed West German hostage Rudolf Cordes at midnight Monday in Beirut after they declared they were ending his 20-month ordeal in response to Syrian and Iranian interven­tion. 
The 55-year-old businessman was released in Moslem west Beirut, taken by police to the home of Lebanese Interior Min­ister Abdullah Rassf and then turned over to Syrian security forces. 
Cordes then was put in a car and was driven to Damascus by Col. Ali Hammoud, chief of 

Syrian  intelligence  for  the  
Beirut area.  
"Mr.  Cordes  is  now  in  

Damascus. He is the guest of the Syrian government. He is in good health," said a Syrian official. 
Rassi told reporters in Lebanon that Cordes was freed at an undisclosed location in west Beirut and police took him to Rassi's home, also in west Beirut. He said that Cordes "is in excellent health." 
Seventeen other foreigners, including nine Americans, are still missing in Lebanon and it is believed they are held by Moslem kidnappers. Longest held is Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for 

German hostage freed in Beirut 
Associated Press 
The pilot of a TWA jetliner hijacked by Arab terrorists in 1985 testified Monday that Mohammed Ali Hamadi took pleasure in torturing the pas­sengers and fired the shot that killed an American sailor. 
Capt. John Testrake, who commanded the plane during the ordeal, told the court he believed Hamadi was the more violent of two hijackers who in­vaded the jetliner's cabin and later killed Robert Stethem, a 
U.S. navy diver. 
But under questioning by defense lawyers, Testrake said he did not actually see Hamadi pull the trigger. 
Hamadi is charged with mur­der and air piracy. He has ad­mitted to being one of the hijackers, but has denied killing Stethem. The Athens to Rome flight was hijacked June 
Pope preaches peace after tribal warfare 
Associated Press 
Pope John Paul II preached peace and reconciliation Mon­day during an open-air Mass in Matabeleland, a province where tribal warfare ended only four months ago. 
"No more training for war," the 68-year-old pontiff told 50,000 people at Ascot horse track in Bulawayo, the provin­cial capital. 
"Hammer swords into plow­shares, spears into sickles and nation will not lift sword against nation," he said. 
John Paul, who is on the first leg of a five-nation, 10-day pilgrimage to southern Africa, flew to Bulawayo from Harare. 
He was welcomed at the track by bishops in cassocks and African drummers, dan­cers and singers dressed in animal skins. The pope was met at Bulawayo's heavily guarded airport by Joshua Nkomo, former rival of Presi­dent Robert Mugabe and now a senior minister in the socialist government. 
In December, Nkomo and Mugabe signed an accord that merged their feuding political parties. As a result, nearly eight years of fighting between armed dissidents loyal to Nkomo and government troops in Matabeleland ended in May. 
John Paul, speaking in En­glish, Latin and the two main African languages of the Shona and Ndebele tribes, lamented that the minority Ndebele people of Matabeleland did not find peace after independence from Britain April 18, 1980. 
But, he prayed that their 14, 1985. It was flown to Beirut, where Stethem was killed, and 39 Americans were held hostage for 17 days. 
Testrake had testified earlier 
that either of two hijackers 
could have led Stethem to a 
cabin door where he was shot. 
But after a recess, Testrake 
told the court he had a chance 
to get a closer look at Hamadi. 
"I want to make an impor­tant statement," Testrake said. "I did say before that one of the two (hijackers) ap­peared to do more of the com­municating and the other more of the violence." 
He said, "It appeared that .one of the hijackers (Hamadi) enjoyed beating the passengers more ... to inflict violence. 
"Looking at this man now, I was struck that ... this is the man who I recall had stood in the forward entry way and shot Stethem." 

The plane landed in Beirut, was refueled, and flew to Al­giers. It took on fuel and returned to Beirut where Stet­hem was slain and 39 other pas­sengers were taken off the Boeing 747 and held hostage. 
After the plane landed in Beirut the second time, Testrake told the court, one of the hijackers talked to the air­port tower in Arabic. 
"I could tell the hijacker was becoming more and more agitated. He began screaming into the radio. At this time he turned toward his accomplice 
and screamed what appeared ll.i•lilllllilllil 
to be an order," the pilot said. 
''The forward cabin door was open. I saw the other hijacker push Stethem out the doorway. Then I heard a single shot," Testrake told the court. 
newfound peace and recon­ciliation would hold. 
"It is only eight years since your struggle for national inde­pendence was brought to an end," the pontiff said from a red-carpeted rostrum fes­tooned with lilies. "Even after that, many people in Matabeleland did not find true peace ... the civilian population continued to suffer from guer­
rilla warfare and other forms 
of violence." Before the Mass, John Paul 
· d d b S · b

was mtro uce y WISS-orn Matabeleland Bishop Henry
Karlen who in 1984 accused troops of committing atrocities against the Ndebele, tradi­tional foes of Mugabe's domi­nant Shona tribe. Mugabe
denounced Karlen at the time for fabricating the charge and siding with terrorists. 
The Associated Press. Ander­son, 40, was kidnapped in Beirut on March 16, 1985. 
Cordes was the last West German held. He and another West German, Alfred Schmidt, were kidnapped in Beirut in January 1987 in a scheme linked to the arrest in Frankfurt of a Lebanese Shiite Moslem for the hijacking of a TWA jetliner. 
Schmidt, an engineer, was freed Sept. 7, 1987. 
The kidnappers' note saying that Cordes would be released, also mentioned Mohammed Ali Hamadi, 24, who has admitted in court to hijacking the plane but denies killing U.S. navy diver Robert Stetham. 
The kidnappers' note, one of three issued Monday, said the decision to release Cordes "does not mean in any way the abandonment of holy warrior Mohammed Hamadi." 
American engineer released in Lebanon 
Associated Press 

Syrian troops tQday rescued an American en­gineer who was abducted by gunmen in Lebanon, and turned him over to the U.S. embassy in Damascus, a source close to the Foreign Ministry reported. 
The source identified the man as an engineer working in Saudi Arabia. His name was given by various sources as Kenneth Paul Wells, Keith Weiss and Paul Weels. 
The U.S. embassy in Damascus refused com­ment. 
Hamadi is on trial in Frankfurt charged with air piracy and murder in the 1985 hijacking of the TWA jet and the shooting death of Stetham, who was a passenger. 
An earlier statement from the kidnappers had said Cordes would be released at the seaside Beaurivage Hotel, close to the command headquarters of the Syrian army's peacekeeping contin­gent in west Beirut. It was not known why they changed their mind. 
In their final statement, handwritten in Arabic, the cap­tors threatened to delay the release unless ambassadors Ahmed Dastemeljian of Iran and Wolfgang Gottelmann of Germany and an unspecified Syrian official showed up in time at the hotel. 
The Syrian source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the en­gineer went to Lebanon to marry a woman whose fam­ily lives in Baalbek. 
He said the American was kidnapped Sunday by uni­dentified gunmen before he reached his fiancee's home. He said the man was found by Syria troops after an all­night search. 
The American was freed and taken to Damascus, where Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa turned him over to U.S. charge d'affaires John Craig, the source said. 
•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 
Dally Wear: +7.00 to -12.00 
Extended Wear: plano to -6.00 
•Tinted 

Contact Lenses 
Dally or 


Extended Wear 
Softmate B or 
Bausch & Lomb 


Eye exam required at time of purchase. No other discounts, previous oiders or sale items apply. Limited time offer. 
"Our eyewear prices are 1111 E Ireland Road
the lowest tn fndtana, and 

our eyecare gualtty ts in the Broadmoor Plaza unsurpassed: And thars a 
promfse from the doctor." 291-4000


j;;;;·
1J. ..,.--_,/-­

ILl!:il ~ mc;;;;;ilfJ ..a.~ ~~ IIW!I
"/v 

Hours: Mon 10-6, Fri & Sat 9-6, Thurs 9-8 Appointments available but not required. 
U~~~~~~~~~Of~fi~~~~~~~rnd~im~a~~~~~~~~~ 

2 different colors 


Tuesday, September 13, 1988 The Observer page 5 

Minister tried for worker's murder 
Associated Press been attending services held by the current pastor, the Rev. 
NASHVILLE, Tenn.--A min­Wayne Cole. ister went on trial Monday on Members of the denomina­charges of beheading a hand­tion formed in the early 1930s yman and burning down his believe in faith healing and church in an alleged attempt to sometimes practice such assume a new identity and dis­rituals as foot washing and appear with $50,000 in church speaking in tongues. money. Brown, McClanahan and 
other church members said 
Jury selection is expected to Terry, 43, was well-liked and take most of the week in the respected during his nearly 20 first-degree murder and arson years as their preacher. Terry trial of the Rev. John Terry, had befriended Matheny, who who faces the death penalty if was the ex-husband of a church convicted. member and had been in trou-
Terry may take the witness ble with the law. stand to break his yearlong Police initially thought it was silence in the decapitation of Terry's body firefighters dis-James Matheny. covered in the carpet because
Etch a sketch 
The slaying and fire on June Terry's belt and other articles Sketching the first part of a design, graphic artist and Leo Riley Hall of Art and Design. 15, 1987, at Emmanuel Church of clothing were found on the Michele Cimprich prepares a drawing in the Edna of Christ Pentecostal Oneness body. The head and lower part stunned Terry's parishioners. of the right arm had been Some have stuck by him since severed with butcher-like pre­Matheny's body was found cision, and Matheny initially
• 

rolled up in a scorched carpet. was suspected of killing Terry


Aid needed 1n Bangladesh 
"Two days before this hap-until medical examiners iden­pened we would have given him tified the body. Associated Press A senior doctor who declined Bangladesh have lived with our last dime," said Marsha Terry, who had worked part-to be identified said about 5per-floods, but never before have Brown, 30, who with others in time as a supermarket butcher 
The president of Bangladesh cent of the diarrhea patients the rivers unleashed such fury the 40-member congregation to earn extra money, showed appealed Monday for more have contracted cholera. on her people," the 59-year-old has been attending weekly ser-up at his lawyer's office two foreign aid to feed more than President Hussain Muham-former army general said vices in a borrowed building in days after the fire. His lawyers 40 million people left homeless mad Ershad said the $280 mil-during a news conference. nearby Gallatin. "I don't feel have since turned over to aut­by the flood, while doctors tried lion in aid so far promised to personally betrayed-more let horities a map of a marina to halt an epidemic of diarrhea. his country was not enough The government puts the of-down than anything else." where they said the head and 
More than 250,000 people even to rebuild the roads ficial death toll at 881 from the About half the members have arm could be found, though a were suffering from diarrhea, washed away by flood waters floods, which started June 13 stopped attending services, she search begun last week was the health center said, with that cover three-fourths of the and reached new heights in late said. halted Sunday after divers nearly 36,000 new cases re-country. August. The health control cen-"I'm sad for him. I guess I'm came up empty-handed. ported in the last 24 hours. He said it was too early to ter said 138 deaths were from a little bitter, but you have to "The divers can't see anyth­Many got the disease by drink-estimate the total amount of diarrhea, while the others were keep the love of God no matter ing. They can only feel. It's ing water contaminated by raw funds needed. caused by drownings, houses what," said Marlane zero visibility" in Lake sewage and flood waters. "For centuries the people of collapsing and snake bites. McClanahan, 35, who has not Barkley, said Stewart County 
Sheriff David Hicks.



eooeoe•••••••••ooeoe••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
e • 
: WEDNESDAY SHUTTLE TO : : SEPT 14 TOWNE & ~~u~~~Y THEATER : 
8 THE LAST TEMPTATION OF • 0 CHRIST e 
•s •• 
• BUS LGA VES • 0 MAIN CIRCLE AT 7:45 • • TICKETS AVAILABLE AT • G LAFOHTUNE INFOHMATION DESK • 
0 •• 
0 • 
: THURSDAY PANEL DISCUSSION : : SEPT 15 ABOUT THE FILM AND :




: 'll-IE U\sr 
THE ISSUES IT RAISES :
i TEMPTATION Heginning At I-OOpm i~n::,e:~o::~:ptlon to Follow : :• OF G-IRJsr 
With Differing Perspectives from faculty Members Including: : 
Rev. Michael Himes -Theology0 Dr. Gary Gutting-Philosophy • fl Dr. James Peterson -Communication and Theatre 8 e Dr. Daniel Lapsley-Psychology 8 
! Mr. Paul Wojda -graduate student 1n Theology .• 
.., All studer,ts and faculty are invited to participate0 In the pane: discussion, Including those who view aS panel moderator • e the rllm on Wednesday. e e Each member of the pane I wIll give a short presentation e O from the perspective of his discipline, and a dialogue with • I e 
audience participation will follow. Sponsored by ' e
8 
: STUDENT UNION llOARD L~, ,.,,_;.,o;oo :
0 • 
•••••••ow•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 


Senate pr-imaries slated for today 
Associated Press 
Battles for Senate nomina 
tions to replace Democrat 
William Proxmire in Wisconsin 
and Republican Robert Staf­
ford in Vermont highlight pri­
mary voting in six states Tues­
day, along with challenges to 
GOP lawmakers who helped 
oust Evan Mecham as gover­
nor of Arizona. 
New Hampshire Republicans 
will choose a candidate for 
governor and decide a bitter 
congressional primary. Min­
nesota voters are expected to 
nominate Republican Sen. 
David Durenberger for a third 
term and give Democratic At­
torney General Hubert "skip" 
Humphrey the right to chal­
lenge him. utah has just one 
contested congressional race. 
Five other states hold elec­tions later in the week as the primary season winds down. Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island delayed voting until Wednes­day or Thursday to avoid having a primary on the Jewish holiday of Rosh Hashana. Hawaii's primary is set for Sat­urday. 
Wisconsin's four-way Demo­cratic Senate race has been lively and expensive, with Mil­waukee Bucks basketball team owner Herbert Kohl spending nearly $2.1 million after making a late entry. Much of that was on TV advertising to argue that his wealth makes him immune to special inter­ests and thus he would be "nobody's senator but yours .. " 
A poll published by the Mil­waukee Journal on Sunday showed Kohl neck-and-neck with former Gov. Anthony Earl, the early favorite. Kohl was preferred by 43 percent of the voters and Earl by 40 per­cent. Edward Garvey, an un­successful Senate candidate in 1986, drew 8 percent, Secretary of State Douglas La Follette 5 percent, and 4 percent were un­decided. The poll had a margin of error of 6 percent. 
La Follette, who reported spending $15,536, ran a radio commercial that began with the sound of a toilet flushing, his way of saying that a Wis­consin tradition of personal campaigning epitomized by Proxmire during 31 years in the Senate was going down the drain. Proxmire spent just $145.10 to win re-election in 1982. 
Earl ran an ad showing a short, balding man in a tuxedo wildly dribbling a basketball, the name "Herb" and two dol­lar signs on the back of his jacket. The ad said Kohl had "fumbled the ball" and in­cluded a recording of a radio show on which Kohl was unable to identify Secretary of Defense Frank Carlucci. 
Garvey joined in the fun, run­ning an ad that showed a Frankenstein monster with a television on its shoulders and a Kohl ad on the screen. In the background, film clips from horror movies showed citizens fleeing in terror. 
Indiana candidates debate advertising 
Associated Press Bayh later replied, "If 
there's anyone who's been 
Republican gubernatorial naive or slightly uninformed, 
candidate John Mutz accused it's John." 
Democratic nominee Evan Mutz also said he has ap­
Bayh on Monday of running pointed his running mate, 
television commercials that Marion County Prosecutor 
contain "tall tales" and distor­Stephen Goldsmith, to be the 
tions of Mutz's record. chairman of a truth squad that 
"It is my opinion that over 
will travel the state setting the 
and over again, Evan has be­
record straight. 
come a teller of tall tales," said 

AP Photo 

Philadelphia. Also in the background are W. Wilson Goode, left, and Ohio Senator John Glenn. 
Duke alleges Bush failed in war on drugs 
Associated Press 
Democrat Michael Dukakis charged Monday that an un­steady George Bush botched his assignments in the battle against drugs and terrorism, while the Republican nominee challenged Dukakis to state his views on the U.S. strike against Libya and invasion of Grenada. 
Bush also named a panel of national security advisers in­cluding former Secretaries of State Henry A. Kissinger and Alexander M. Haig as well as Zbigniew Brzezinski, who was Democrat Jimmy Carter's na­tional security adviser. 
Dukakis, launching a three­day counter-offensive against Republican charges that he would cripple American defense and foreign policy, told 200 supporters at a union hall in Philadelphia that Bush was "disastrously and completely and unforgivably wrong" for not warning President Reagan against selling arms to Iran in an attempt to free hostages. 
Dukakis said he would res­tore respect for America, which he said had been under­mined by Reagan-Bush fail­ures to combat terrorism, come to grips with the trade deficit and stop "the avalanche of drugs .. . pouring across our borders." 
"In each of these areas, George Bush has failed," the Massachusetts governor said. 
"I want to beat our foreign competitors; he's willing to set­tle for second best. I want to crack down on terrorism; he knuckled under to the ayatol­lah. I want a real war on drugs; his answer to drug kingpins like 
(Panama  leader  Manuel>  
Noriega  is  J.  Danforth  
Quayle."  

Bush, at a news conference in Washington and later at a rally before 1,000 flag-waving Cuban-Americans in Union City, N.J., cudgeled Dukakis on defense and foreign affairs as well as the economy. 
"I will really admit that I am having trouble pinning down the liberal governor of Massa­chusetts on his defense," Bush said in New Jersey. 
Bush demanded that Dukakis spell out whether he supported the 1983 U.S. bom­bing raid on Libya and the in­vasion "to free Grenada from its Cuban masters." 
"I support those things. Now, does he support them? let's ask him that question," said Bush. 
Mutz, the lieutenant governor. "I think it's important that the people of Indiana have the 
NOTRE DAME vs. MICHIGAN STATE-SEPT.17th
whole truth, not half truths." 
Bayh defended his advertise­
ments and countered that Mutz 
is simply uncomfortable with 
his record. 
"We have forced him into a rendezvous with his own record 
(}92571

092418 able with that," said Bayh. 
and he feels very uncomfort­
092580 

At a news conference, Mutz 
092421 

092582 pointed to five assertions in 
092440 092584092445

Bayh commercials that he 
092608092468

claimed give a distorted or in­
092654092483

complete account of either 
092671
092503 092673

Mutz's record or Bayh's perfor­
092519 clude the economic develop­
mance in office. The topics in­
092695 ment program Mutz heads, tax 
092525 

092700 increases during the last eight 
092532 092702092533

years and the budget for Mutz's 
092719092534

office. 
092727092541

Mutz also said Bayh has dis­
092765092549

torted the record on his role in 
092767

092557 a proposed pay increase Bayh 
license branch reform and on 
092785 says he turned down. Asked if he was calling Bayh 
092791 092802 092803 092812 092824 092839 092860 092861 095030 095050  095131 095171 095175 095183 095189 095194 095212 095215 095223 095235  095323 095331 095335 095367 095381 095399 095404 095409 095414 095444  095506 095515 095516 095522 095543 095544 095555 095567 095572 095589  095628 095631 095633 095645 095650 095656 095671 095675 095690 095697  
095058 095073 095079 095112 095118 095128  095254 095291 095303 095308 095309 095314  095455 095456 095459 095475 095483 095504  095591 095596 095610 095611 095620 095625  095702 095713 095720 095734 095736 095756  

a liar, Mutz said, "I don't think he is really. He's a little ill­informed, naive about the legislative process." 
092563 


Ticket Winners 

Winners must ~resent lottery ticket to purchase game tickets. ach ticket holder may purchase up to 2 game tickets on Monday or Tuesday in Rm 002 of LaFortune between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. 
095762 
095913 
095789 
095916 
095792 
095920 
095799 
095921 
095800 
095927 
095801 
095937 
095802 
095941 
095812 
095956 
095813 
095974 
095975
095820 
095977
095830 
095831 
095978 
095848 
095984 
095851 
095988 
095866 
095990 
095886 
095997 
095896 
096000 
-----------: 

Tuesday, September 13, 1988 page 7 
Business 
I

Let's talk econom1c facts 
I

concern1ng the '88 election 
By RICH COGLIANESE Business Columnist 
Ask yourself this question, "Are you better off now then you were eight years ago?" The answer to this question is a loud YES. In the 1988 election we have a choice between the economic policies that allow for growth and the tried and failed stations of the past. 1988 is an important election year. It is important to allow one of the candidates to lie to the na­tion about the state of its eco­nomic affairs. Virgil gave some sage advice 2000 years ago: Don't trust Greeks bearing gifts. 
When Ronald Reagan and George Bush took office on Jan­uary 20, 1981, the nation was in a state of economic chaos. The prime lending rate had hit 21 percent. Inflation was at 13 per­cent. Americans were not able to make ends meet. The gov­ernment kept claiming larger and larger portions of Americans' income through in­creased taxes. Also taxes were not indexed to inflation so that when a worker received a cost of living increase, this would bump him up into the next tax bracket. America was looked upon as a failure. A malaise fell over the country. 
Ronald Reagan and George Bush took office in a state of economic chaos. Ronald Reagan and George Bush im­mediately pushed through the historic and economically vind­icated tax cuts. These cuts lowered the highest tax rate from 70 percent to 50 percent. They also stimulated the eco­nomy. By lowering taxes, people had more money at their disposal. This extra money al­lows people to do what all capitalist economies must do: 
consume. The investment and 
consumption capital made 
available from this tax cut 
have allowed Americans to en­
joy the longest peacetime eco­
nomic boom in this country's 
history. 
The following is a list of the 
accomplishments of the 
Reagan-Bush Administration 
and some clarifications for the 
fall election. 
Point 1. The misery index is down; way down. The misery index was a wacky invention of then Governor Carter (himself a governor of whom the Amer­ican people knew nothing about). Mr. Carter added the inflation rate to the unemploy­ment rate to come up with the misery index. While Ford was president, the misery index stood between twelve and thir­teen percent. Carter said that no president should dare seek re-election with a misery index so high. During the final year of the Carter Administration, the misery index hit 20.7 per­cent. As President Reagan told the Republican delegates in New Orleans, "Facts are stub­born things." During the first quarter of this year, the misery index averaged 9.9 percent. 
Point -2. Eighteen million new jobs have been created during the Reagan-Bush years. This is approximately 200,000 per month every month that President Reagan and George Bush were in office. Since 1982, the United States has created three times more jobs than Western Europe and Japan combined. The combined working age population is one and one half times larger than the USA. "Facts are stubborn things." 
Point 3. As Vice President George Bush says, "These are good jobs." Over half of the 
jobs created since 1982 earn 
more than $20,000 per year. 
These are not jobs that pay 
$3.35 per hour. These are good 
jobs that pay well and finally 
have a better future. The 
governor of the state of 
"Taxachusetts" must be using 
his prolitarian logic to arrive 
at the conclusion that $20,000 
per year is not a good job. 
"Facts are stubborn things." 
Point -4. Another lie that our 
friend from New England is 
trying to sell us is that the 
recovery has not reached the 
average person. The after tax 
median income for a U.S. fam­
ily is $36,108. In 1980, it was 
$23,761. This is an increase of 
10.2 percent after adjusting to inflation. Three million people less are now living below the poverty level than in 1982. The poverty rate for blacks fell 12.6 percent, the largest decline in twenty years. Finally, the percentage of elderly Americans living below the poverty line is now the lowest since records were first kept. "Facts are stubborn things." 
Point 5. The miracle worker from Massachusetts doesn't even tell the truth about the Massachusetts budget. First, he is complaining about the budget deficits during the Reagan Administration. Well, when Reagan and Bush took of­fice, the budget deficit made up 
3.4 percent of the Gross Na­tional Product. Today, the budget deficit makes up, that's right, just 3.4 percent of GNP. Dukakis makes another claim about deficits. He claims that he has balanced ten budgets in ten years that he has served as governor of Massachusetts. Well, the only way he did this was with smoke and mirrors. Mr. Dukakis borrowed money from the banks on the expected 
IDEAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO 
Source: ColleQe for Financtal Planning Survey 

of 368 Plan-Growth Investments 
44% 
1

(stocks, stock funds, 
~ 

real estate, business 
, ~ 1 
1 
1 


ventures, limited partnerships)
28% 

Debt Investments 
(Bonds, Bond funds, 28% Bank CO's) 
Money Market Investments (Money-market funds, T-Bills, Savings 
he raised taxes back in his home state yet again. He is also against increase defense spending. Dukakis and Carter have a great deal in common. Both believed in failed eco­
tax receipts of the next month. This is very creative account­ing, but it is not a balanced budget. Although Massachu­setts law allows Dukakis to claim that he has balanced the budget, U.S.law does not. Mike Dukakis has never balanced a Massachusetts budget and as president, he would only bring about larger budget deficits. "Facts are stubborn things." 
Point 6. The current eco­nomic expansion is the longest in peacetime history. It has been going on for 69 months as of August. The historical average is only 27 months. Ronald Reagan and George Bush are responsible for the economic boom in this country by lowering taxes and raising defense spending. Mike Dukakis is a classic tax and spend liberal. Earlier this year 
accounts) 
Observer Graphic/Geoff Sauer 

nomic policies and a President Dukakis (even the sound ter­rifies me) would destroy the 
U.S. economy. "Facts are stub­born things." 
George Bush has proven him­self capable of sound economic policies. When Reagan and Bush took office, the Dow Jones Industrial Average stagnated about 776. Today, even after the crash, the Dow stands between 2000 and 2100. Because of the Reagan-Bush team, people have a bright economic future to look at. When Reagan-Bush took office, unemployment was at seven to eight percent. Today, it stands as 5.6 percent. Judging from the economic his­tory of Ronald Reagan and George Bush verses the eco­nomic history of Jimmy Carter and Mike Dukakis, it is clear who should win the election. With the history of both of these people, it is ch~ar that one of these candidates had better win the election for the good of the U.S. economy. "Facts are stubborn things." 
Sluggish day on Wall Street due to Jewish holiday 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The stock mar­ket showed little movement in a listless session Monday, un­able to break its recent stalemate. · 
Some blue chip issues at­tracted buyers, but the rest of the market sagged. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials edged up 3.56 points to 2,072.37. 
But declining issues outnum­bered advances by nearly 4 to 3 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 606 up, 788 down and 536 unchanged. 
Volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 114.88 million shares, down from 141.54 mil­lion Friday and the lightest total since a 108.72 million­share day on Aug. 30. 
Nationwide, consolidated volume in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in 
Everyone can join 
The St. Edward· s Hall PLAYERS I* 
Tour big chance is at our brief informational and organizational meeting Tuesday Sept. 13th at 7:30 ~ 
the over-the-counter market, totaled 133.85 million shares. 
The pace of activity, which has been sluggish for some time now, was further restrained by the observance of Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. 
Analysts said there was little in the news to stir up much en­thusiasm for stocks. 
The Commerce Department is due to report Wednesday on the merchandise trade balance for July. Many observers believe, however, that the fig­ures are unlikely to stir the market out of its recent torpor unless they contain some big surprise. 
Mter improving steadily ear­lier in the year, the trade def­icit has lately shown signs of resisting much further narrow­ing. 
Monsanto tumbled as the most active Big Board issue. The company's G.D. searle subsidiary was ordered to pay $8.75_million in damages in a 
7pm
in Washington HalL ~ 
Montgomery Theatre 304 Haggar 
r •Ewn a1 you w 1\a<J no pnnou• U\f'atn PXpf'l"if'ncf', 
1st Floor, LaFortune 

> t'Wn it all you want is tun. 1ortutv and tame. I-w. want you to bf' involwd with this ynr '• 
1 

~' IIAIIISTAGE PEBFOBIIA.CE H 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
-~~~..q-.~~<b><Q">~,_q,c. ll!t&~~~~~~~~~~I?!I/Jl~I?!I!Jl~~~~~~Fmim'A~-­

IRELAND PROGRAM 
Information Sessions 
-NO 
SMC Tuesday, Sept. 13 wednesday, Sept. 14 7pm 
major case involving its Copper-7 intrauterine device. 
Gainers among the blue chips included General Electric, Ford Motor,Philip Morris, and Coca-Cola. 
But International Business Machines and American Tele­
phone & telegraph  were  both  
losers on the day.  
Energy stocks turned  in  a  

mixed showing as oil prices staged a late rebound from their recent slide. 
Correction 
An article which ran last week on this page mis­represented the views of a col­umnist. A sentence, written by Rich Coglianese, should have read,"It is time to legalize drugs and allow the phar­maceutical companies to han­dle refining and distribution of these drugs." 
The editor apologizes for this misrepresentation. 
Join The Observer 
Viewp~

Tuesday, September 13, 1988 
Belfast: a flicker of hope 
One city thrives on pride and com­thern Ireland until I saw "Keep the 1600's, English monarchs planted Amidst this morass of fear, misun­have reiterated thei passion, the other on violence and Ulster British" painted along a Protestants in Catholic Ireland in an derstanding, and confusion lurks the end of the British hate. One city is older than most wooden fence. attempt to gain control of the island. Irish Republican Army <IRA). The vow to continue t 
countries, the other is undergoing a Mter I got off the train in Belfast, In Northern Ireland, the Catholic predominantly Catholic IRA uses their demands are IJ baptism of fire. One city is Protes­I was put through their normal se­land owners eventually fled the area, terrorist tactics in an attempt to ly, the IRA foes do tant, the other is Catholic. Both cities curity procedures. This did not, fearing Protestant persecution. To force the British from Ulster. The are the reason the are Belfast. People told me I was however, consist of a strip search t)Jis day, the Protestants hold a activity of the IRA has turned Bel­are in Ulster in th€ tempting fate by visiting Belfast last and a complete examination of my majority in Northern Ireland. fast and the rest of Ulster into a war Violence has pla1 spring. The city was in turmoil fol­luggage. I simply walked through a When Ireland gained its indepen­zone. British soldiers, armed with centuries ; thousar lowing a spree of killings involving metal detector and was welcomed to dence from England in the 1920's, machine guns, patrol the streets in the struggle. Belfc: the Irish Republican Army and the Belfast. the English insisted on maintaining armored jeeps. Unoccupied cars are tired. They are sea British Army. Many thought Belfast One of the first things I noticed control over the six northern outlawed in downtown Belfast be­and tired of killin a powder keg ready to detonate. about Belfast was how clean and counties because they were mainly cause of car bombs. People carrying Belfast want peacE 
neat it was. Compared to Dublin, Protestant. The southern counties, large packages are routinely Yet peace will 
London, or Paris, Belfast was by far hungry for freedom, acquiesced and stopped and searched. The Ameri­Years of hatred an1 
the cleanest city. As I walked the conflict began. The Irish can press often portrays the IRA as ing have severed t
Tom Varnum 
through the downtown area, I Republic feels uncomfortable with a group of valiant freedom fighters. munication betweE noticed an eerie silence shrouding the British influence on the island Protestants. A stat 
The most unnerving in Belfast which 1
Third and Long the city. It was a busy, thriving city, and Ulster fears persecution by the but it lacked the usual sounds asso­Catholic Irish. aspect of Belfast tempts at peace. It Undaunted by these warnings, I ciated with a big city. There were The problem in Northern Ireland continues. to be the tants' fault; it is r spent part of Easter weekend in the few car horns, loud radios, street does not, however, begin and end fault. It is not the 
presence of British
hottest politicalTeligious crucible performers, or talkative people. It with religion. It also revolves around not the British go1 west of Beruit. Some of what I saw was almost as if the residents were the one thing in the world more soldiers. They cover No easy solution ex surprised me, some didn't. afraid a loud noise would shatter the popular than religion: money. While the downtown area, compromise must The international press corps fragile peace which existed at the the economy of Ireland struggles, in Ulster as they ~ paint a very restricted and protec­time. Ulster is subsidized by London. Thus dressed in camouflage tion. Violence, no tive picture of Belfast. As they The most unnerving aspect of Bel­Ulster has better education, commu­uniforms, carrying IRA propaganda s 
describe the situation, one would im­fast continues to be the presence of nication, transportation, and health machine guns and will not work. agine crossing the border from the British soldiers. They cover the care. Some people in Ulster would Belfast is a tru
driving around in Violence, howeveIrish Republic into Northern Ireland downtown area, dressing in like to see a united Ireland but are 
(or Ulster) similar to crossing from camouflage uniforms, carrying ma­unwilling to relinquish the benefits armored jeeps. apart. Many peopl1 West Berlin to East Berlin. Truth be chine guns and driving around in ar­they receive from the British. as a lost cause. Bu,1 told, it was almost impossible to de­mored jeeps. However, as intimidat­The Protestants are also afraid the They are not. They are terrorists, is so entrenched iJ! 
termine just when the train crossed ing as they seemed, they were indeed Catholic Church will persecute them pure and simple. They use violence given up on the h< · into British territory. The landscape human. More than once I noticed the if a union is achieved. The Protes­to pressure others into submitting to other Belfast, the 
did not suddenly turn from green to rear door of a jeep open with the tants, unfortunately, overlook their their demands. see, still keeps the ' brown, armed guards did not body soldiers watching an attractive wo­discrimination against the Catholics Over the summer, the IRA have peace alive. , search everyone on the train and no man walk by. in Ulster. Catholics have difficulty killed over thirty people in various Tom Varnum is as' one asked me my religion. In fact, I Belfast's violent history is older finding housing, jobs, and education attacks. Most of these people have Communications n1 
did not even realize I was in Nor-than our own country's history. In in Ulster. been innocent bystanders. They ular Viewpoint col 
Students fear threat to beliefs 
I 

When I was in Boston this summer, I can tolerate that attitude from Was he told who he was by his par­externals offers us. Some of us feel aware of the priorit "The Last Temptation of Christ" almost anyone except from college ents? Did he discover it? And if he the struggle more than others, but mission. was the talk of the town. Even at students. It shows a deep misun­did, how did he? The film provides we all feel it. This film makes the Now Christ's tE Mass the priest mentioned the derstanding both of the purpose of one answer to those questions. issue alive. For if that is the voice shows him decidin~ movie. "That movie, you know their four years in college (in fact, of God which we hear, then the human life. And thi~ which one I mean," he warned us, of the task they have for the rest of The account the film gives of Jesus struggle of Jesus in the film is in the marital relations; "I will only mention it once from the their lives) and of their responsibil­is honest and thought-provoking, if end our own. And why should it not words. But the sex pulpit, and I do this only because I ity towards their faith. Beliefs that nothing else. Scorsese presents Jesus be? tangential issue to don't want my silence to be inter­are left unexamined are not worth as a man that has to come to terms What some people find offensive temptation. The te preted as a sign that I condone it." holding, and a faith that goes unchal­with God's presence within him. But about this picture of Jesus is that he all gives us a clue He continued with a litany of in­lenged is bound to become a dead as any human being, he struggles to is presented as much too uncertain derstand Christ's choate criticisms and claims about faith. come to an understanding of his call­and much too human for our concep­clear that it could how offensive such a film was to our ing, to a discovery of who in fact he tion of the God Incarnate. How could from a free choice: beliefs, to the person of Jesus, to our Martin Scorsese, the film's direc­is. Prophets must go through this he have these doubts? How could he the deceptive allu religion, and so on, ad nauseum. I tor, is very careful to warn the process, often not knowing at first not know exactly what his mission and the transparen was appalled. viewer that his movie is not based what to do with God's spirit taking was? How could it be true that God Scorsese shows t --------------on the Gospels, but rather on a book, possession of them, or their hearing told Him "the plan only little by magnificent clarit 
which is a fictional account of the God's calling despite their ordinary little" (as he tells Judas in the film)? Let the funda Victor J. Krebs life of Jesus. Moreover, he stresses lives. Christ is depicted in this same Perhaps that is the film's main what they think w 
that its focus is on the relation be­way in Scorsese's film. weakness, for it never does offer us think, listen to the 
GSU tween the human and the divine, thus a Christ sure of his identity. the historians a 
metanoia suggesting that although it is about Even if this was not the way Jesus Others find it offensive that Christ scholars give us t 
came to terms with his Divinity, the is pictured having carnal desires and for God's sake let •-------------Christ, its problematic goes beyondthat. film leads us to reflect about the na­having to fight the inclination to have bility for our own 
Back at Notre Dame I have met ture of Christ, and about the mystery a family. But if he were a man, he us be the ones to de with a strange mixture of attitudes: Most of us have probably not of the Incarnation. But perhaps most must have had to experience the al­phemous and wha indifference at the whole thing on the reflected too much on what it means importantly, the film itself helps us lure of the flesh. Moreover, the film believe and what w part of some (always a source of con­for Christ to be both human and understand better our struggle be­gives us not a sinner (or a not always take w cern to me), but also fear--based divine. Most of us take that state­tween the human and the divine. "womanizer" as one of the on faith; least of primarily on prejudice--on the part ment as an article of faith. And so it We all experience at some point a protesters outside the cinema Victor J. Krebs is of others. The answer is usually: "I is, but it deserves some attention. calling to a higher realm, and a nat­claimed) but, on the contrary, a in philosophy, is have been told it's blasphemous, so How did Jesus know who he was? Did ural adherence to nobler principles genuinely spiritual man, who was, Graduate Studeni I don't want to see it." he know this from the beginning? and a better life than the world of in the deepest level of his experience, regular Viewpoint 

Editoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager·····················'-······· John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen 
News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of IRe University of News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager.. ................... Bernadette Shi~s Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager. . ............ Marga Bruns Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

int 
page a-9 


P.O. Box Q 
demand for the Racism exists problem--but by no means the most ientation, and the Honor Code. aside their true desires in order to
occupation and serious--! have with this article For the fall semester we have cho-· conform..." Her story is one of a e attacks until 
at Notre Dame stems from the title. To liken a part sen to explore four areas that have girl at a party confessing that she
et. Unfortunate­
Dear Editor: of the institution of Notre Dame to a great impact on student life. The really doesn't like the taste of the 
not realize they 
I am constantly bombarded with fraternity is heretical. Most frater­first, a most formidable report, re-beer that she is drinking. Although
British soldiers 
messages about the Notre Dame nities in this country represent one quested by the the chairman of the I'm no expert of the alcohol com­
first place. 
community and its supportive com­of the last bastions of institutional­Student Affairs Committee as a sumption habits of females at this
ed the area for 
araderie. At Notre Dame, the Spirit ized elitism and racism. Neither result of last year's task force report, University, I would guess that many 
s have died in 
of the Virgin Mary, the Mother of Notre Dame nor Morrissey condone will analyze the issue of co-female members of this community 
t is scared and 
God, resides, as well as her love. At these vices, and to compare Morris­residential housing and discuss whe-are perfectly happy with the taste of
ed of each other 
Notre Dame, students are supposed sey to a fraternity does both Morris­ther Notre Dame should embrace the alcoholic beverages that they 
. The people of to have truly incorporated the spirit sey and Notre Dame a disservice. such a model. The second report will choose to drink. Portraying ND of God into their lives, and are living Secondly, the choice of subject evaluate the current level of social females as vacuous and unwillingot come easily. 
examples of the love of Jesus Christ. makes me wonder. Do you really programming. That is, it will at-conformists when it comes to their
misunderstand­
At Notre Dame, students are sup­think that the students at Notre tempt to answer the question, are drinking habits is unfair and, to a 

e lines of com­
posedly caring and loving, treating Dame, excluding Morrissey resi­the resources currently available certain extent, degrading. 
Catholics and 
one another as family members, dents, really care to hear about this sufficient for a student body that is Later in her essay, Miss Cocks
• of terror exists 
members of the Notre Dame family so-called tradition in one of the predominantly tied to campus for its asserts another ill-conceived opinion 
aralyzes all at­
as well as the Catholic community. dorms? Does a tiresome rendition of social life? The third will be a com-that many students here are "wast­
s not the Protes­
Who qualifies for this Notre Dame adolescent, male-bonding rituals prehensive study, along with recom-ing" their time and money by study­
t the Catholics' 
family? I was under the impression constitute newsworthy or even mendations, on the need for better ing subjects that they really dislike, 
RA's fault; it is 
that as a student of Notre Dame, I editorial-worthy material? I think transportation options for both on-only looking for a good job after col­
rnment's fault. 
am a member of this loving Catholic not. Notre Dame has over twenty and off-campus students. The final lege. She states, "Maybe deciding
ts. Patience and 
family. Yet as an Asian-American dormitories, and each has its own report shall address all aspects of that a business major was not the
uide the people 
student, I am tired of not feeling like "traditions." But, unfortunately, be­campus parking, a problem which right one for me decreased my job
arch for a solu-
I belong when individuals ask me, cause they are dormitories on the has only worsened in recent years. prospects, but at least I won't be 
atter what the 
"Where are you from?," and then same campus, filled with people of Because these issues are of in-gnashing my teeth over classes I 
ys, has not and ask me, "No, where are you really the same relative age who are going herent interest to students, we solicit hate." Miss Cocks goes on to say, "I from?," after I answer their first through very similar experiences, your input on any one of these topics may never own a yacht or abeautiful city. 
question with "California;" and I am these "traditions" are merely vari­as they are prepared over the next townhouse...but I'll be doing some­
is tearing it 
tired of individuals making the er­ations of the same theme that per­six weeks. If you have thoughts thing I enjoy." Her tacit implication 
only see Belfast 
roneous assumption that I am from vades every dorm on the campus. please write or call the student gov-in these statements is that more
only one Belfast 
China. I leave these interactions Going to Beacon Bowl, getting ernment offices on the second floor Business Administration majors
violence. It has 
feeling frustrated and angry because drunk, pool tournaments, Sunday of LaFortune. don't enjoy and "believe in" their
of peace. The 
I need to convince these unbelieving Mass, and community service do not Thomas P. Doyle major and, for the most part, are 
ne most do not individuals that I really was born represent something unique to Mor­Student Body President greedy and selfish. 
arne of hope and and raised in Southern California rissey. To read about this "unique­Michael M. Paese It is those assertions to which I and not China, and that I am just as ness" in the paper is both tiresome Student Body Vice-President take the greatest exception. Speak­
nior English and 
much an American citizen as they and insulting. I think I speak for a Sept. 12, 1988 ing as a student enrolled in the Col­--­
jor and is a reg­
are. majority of Notre Dame students lege of Business Administration, I 
mnist. 
These feelings of frustration and when I say I do not care about what "Inside" essay find that almost all of us are quite anger surfaced once again on Satur­goes on in Morrissey. I would rather happy with the selection of our day night before the Michigan game, see some writing about serious is­generalizes major. Miss Cocks might find it ex­when in passing, one male said to sues and subjects which pertain and Dear Editor: tremely hard to understand, but me "Yo, kung fu," while his male give insight to a greater number of Upon reading Alison Cocks' Inside most business majors don't hate of his spiritual companion just snickered. What is students. column of Sept. 5 on student resis­their classes and are just as likely the message that was being com­Liam M. Bruen tance to change, I was struck by the to enjoy their classes as Arts and mptation itself municated? Did this individual Zahm Hall self-serving generalizations she Letters majors. The stereotype that to lead a fully honestly think that "kung fu" was Sept. 11, 1988 employs to convincingly portray business majors are greedy and hate indeed involves my name, or did he think that all Notre Dame students as conformists their work is in no way accurate. It sex, in other individuals with distinguishing Student Affairs who are afraid to make important serves only to cause further fricton tself is at best a Asian features respond to being decisions. Her column serves almost between various groups on campus.
invites input 
the point of the called "kung fu?" Or, was he merely no other purpose than to add to the Perhaps if there was less stereotyp­1ptation most of being derogatory and insulting? Dear Editor: already lengthy list of stereotypes ing of groups done on this campus, 1bout how to un­To these two individuals, thank Typically students complain about that presently afflict our student ND would be a better place for all 
lission. It makes you for making me aware, once lack of real input into the adminis­body. )f us. >e achieved only again, that racism and ignorance tration and their decision-making. Miss Cocks' essay begins with a Larry Playford \.choice between (or is that redundant?) are alive and However, unknown to most people, story that she seems to feel shows Dillon Hall 
e of the human well in the wonderful community of twice a year student government is how students here "tend to push Sept. 11, 1988 
y of God's truth. Our Lady. given the opportunity to meet with is struggle with Elaine Yee the Student Affairs Committee of the 
Off-campus Board of Trustees. This committee ntalists tell us Sept. 12, 1988 is composed of eight trustees and the shouldn't do or senior staff of the Office of Student 
sychologists and Affairs. Traditionally, student gov­
Morrissey article
d the biblical ernment presents detailed reports eir opinion, but unnecessary along with recommendations on s take responsi­areas of student life. Many substan­thoughts and let Dear Editor: tial changes have arisen as a result ide what is bias­While perusing my daily Observer of these student presentations. For is not, what we over lunch on Aug. 30, I happened to example, because of a series of 1don't. We should read your Accent article, "Like a reports given to the trustees $5 mil­1at people tell us fraternity, only better." The title of lion was allocated to remodel LaFor­I, Faith itself. the story seemed rather strange for tune Student Center. In recent years, !graduate student a Notre Dame newspaper, so I reports have been submitted on a Jresident of the decided to find out exactly what the range of topics such as the status of 
Union, and is a headline meant. In doing so I dis­intellectual life at Notre Dame, 
l:olumnist. covered many problems. The first Freshman Orientation, Transfer Or­
ry 

Ga Trudeau 
tET'5 
"I
'3HOWA 
PJ.m7t
UT7l8MORE 
AI.J.8­
SfiOUWtl<. I 0 
61ANC8.•." 
• 

Quote of the Day 
"The love of our neighbor in all its fullness simply 
means  being  able  to  say  
to  him:  'what  are  you  
going through?"'  
Simone  Weil  

"NO Magazine" 
tV&RYTHING'S AU 55T,MR. 7RUMP. &:LV/5 15 PRIMU? AN{) R&AOY 
TOGO! 
(j{)()(). HAV/3. 
At.L.TH8 QUALITY ai-88R1Tif313 ARRIVW7 
\ 

Y&5, SIR. TYSON AN{) OON I<JNG ARe H&Re,  HOIIJ ABOUT  Hf:.'S STIU IN HIS OR£83ING RIXJM.  
AND I JUST 513A180  7H& VIC:O  HAVING HIS  
5/Nim<A AND HIS 800YGUARI?S UP I FRONT.  PR&SI­fJfflT2  C05TUM8 F/TTW.I  C05TUM3':1  
\  

~-----~-~-­
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, September 13, 1988 
R
emember that annual instance, the Institute for back-to-school essay, Pastoral and Social Ministry "What I did during my sum­hosted its 12th annual mer vacation?" I never Retreats International pro­thought I would write an­gram. According to Father 
other, but this fall it seems an Gedeon, executive director of appropriate way to introduce the program, almost 1,000 summer in South Bend. people attended the various 

MARY BERGER 
Back in the High Life 

As a true lover of the courses this year, covering Rocky Mountains I can see such topics as personal dilem­from my Colorado window, I mas of life, prayer and must admit South Bend was poetry, and contemporary not on the top of my list of spirituality. Most of the parti­places to spend my summer cipants work in some area of days. However, unbeatable education, from high school opportunities arose last or university teaching to spring, so I decided to forge counseling or parish work. ahead. 
I did research during my Two of the largest annual vacation. Not only did I re­JACC events this summer search James Madison, but I were held in July and at­also had the opportunity to tracted distinctly different observe what happens in our disciples. Both groups favorite midwestern town travelled here from all over when we are not here. the United States and neigh­
Notre Dame serves as host boring countries, but the to numerous groups during second one also had partici­the summer. At the end of pants from as far away as May, Charismatics held their England. meetings here; later in the The first event was a summer, Jehovah's Witnesses roadtripper's fantasy. Over convened. During June and 5,000 recreational vehichles early July, 1,718 young people and travellers made their participated in the Notre way to South Bend, converg­Dame Summer Sports ing on the immediate fields Camps, playing basketball, around campus to attend the football, tennis, soccer, Family Motor Coach Associa­lacrosse, and wrestling. tion Rally. Most of these 
As the summer nights grew nomads are are retired, longer, the number of events travelling throughout the seemed to grow larger. For country and returning most 
Memoirs of London 
In summer, South Bend keeps hopping 
every summer to the JACC to scrutinize the latest RV models and interior inven­tions. 
Whereas the average motor coach owner is retired and enjoying his or her life of ad­venturous travelling, the second group that returns to South Bend every year is young, intense, and only here for serious business. Such are the competitors in America's Youth on Parade, the baton twirling world championships. 
I passed my youth in the world of competitive figure skating, and after having spent a few hours at this twirling competition, I must say that even though it is not an Olympic sport, twirling contests definitely foster a 

O'Shag can't begin to match. 
But these initial observa­tions are only superficial. Every detail of life there is a little different. The pace of life is a little slower, and people's clothes are a little more subdued. Even the trip to the corner grocery store 
Bill Watterson 

similar atmosphere. 
The young girls travel with their teams and their mot­hers. Their faces are heavily made-up, and their hair is tightly braided or twisted and plastered with hair spray. Their costumes are elaborately bedecked with bangles, and they spend all of their time at the place of competition, either practicing or performing. And even though no money is awarded in these competitions, for some, the glory comes in the scholarships which titles can help win; for others, there is the simple pleasure of twirl­ing and performing. 
America prides itself on its pluralism, respecting every individual's beliefs, opinions, 
becomes a reminder that one is in a foreign country. It is this everyday experience of absorbing a new culture that is the most educational part of a foreign studies program. 
The e:r:wironment in which student life is carried out is also quite different from the one that exists at Notre Dame. The most obvious dif­ference is that housing is co­ed and drinking age restric­tions don't apply, but there are many others as well. The social opportunities are more varied and more accessible: one can simply walk two blocks to get a pint of lager at a local pub, or one can be more extravagant and spend a wild night at one of Lon­don's posh dance clubs or even attend the latest Andrew Lloyd Webber musical. 
Finally the academic envi­and interests. This past sum­mer, South Bend exemplified that ideology. Religious groups gathered at Notre Dame to share their ideas and further their respective causes. The youth of America honed their athletic skills during sports camps and competitions. There were various academic programs 
for high school students, en­couraging intellectual dis­cipline. And then there were those people who are now taking the time to smell the roses as they travel through this country, enjoying the profits of their hard work. All of these people made this summer what it was. They made it, as my roommate remarked, a true slice of Americana. 
ronment is different. An amount of discipline is re­quired in a setting where everything is not neatly laid out for the student. One test or paper will be the grade in a class. One can "blow off" work for a month only to pay the price at grade time --the teacher won't check up on your progress. There is also a more personal relationship between the faculty and the students in London. It is not unusual, for example, for an English class to go to a Dick­ensian pub with the professor after class. 
Although the adjustment to a new culture can be chal­lenging and sometimes frustrating, it's an opportu­nity that should not be missed. It's truly a once-in-a­lifetime adventure. 
JIM DOERFLER accent writer 
I 
n about a month, the appli­
cation process for the 

various foreign studies pro­
grams will get under way. 
For any students considering 
applying to one of these pro­
grams, I offer my reflections 
on the subject based on my 
experiences in the London 
program last year. 
Although visiting tourist 

sites, going on shopping 
sprees and taking off to Paris 
for the weekend are all great 
fun, unfortunately one can't 
do such things for an entire 
semester. Much of one's expe­
rience is spent in more ordi­
nary ways. Therefore, it is 
the everyday experiences that 
are the topic of this column. 
The simple act of walking 

to school is a good starting 
point in the attempt to illus-
Calvin and Hobbes 
trate the types of changes that are in store for the Lon­don Program student. One starts out in the Bayswater section of London. Here the streets are lined with an as­sortment of busy markets and stores, and half the signs are written in English and the other half are written in Arabic. BMWs and Rolls­Royces are parked along sidewalks where beggars have daily stations in front of Indian restaurants. 
One takes a ride on "the tube" (the subway) during rush hour to a classroom building on the other side of town. The walk from the tube station to the classroom build­ing completes this sense of being in a different place as one realises that all the build­ings here are over 200 years old and have an architectural diversity that our library and 

r-----~--------~ 
Tuesday, September 13, 1988 The Observer page 11 
Sports Briefs 
l, 

The Squash Club will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in court one of the Joyce ACC. All interested parties should attend. -The Ob­server 
Stepan Courts will be reserved from 4: 15 to 6:15p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons beginning today and running through Wednesday, Sept. 28. The 5-10 and Un­der Basketball tourney will be held during these times and have priorities on the courts. -The Observer 
Reggie Ho will be the guest tonight on Speakmg of Sports on WVFI-AM 640 from 10 to 11 p.m. Join host Greg Guffey and sports direc­tor Jamey Rappis by calling 239-6400 with ques­tions for the Irish kicker or to talk about Notre Dame football. 
Irish Outdoors is sponsoring a canoe trip to the Pine River in Michigan. The group will depart Friday afternoon and will return the fol­lowing day. Deadline for registration is Wed­nesday, Sept. 14. For questions or registration, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will begin lessons this week. Lessons will be offered Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays this fall at 3:30p.m. at the boathouse. Dues must be paid at or before your first lesson. For more information call Mike Norman at x3520. -The Observer ' 
The SMC Co-ed team tennis captains' meeting is today at 4 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. This is the only time entries will be accepted. Call 284-5290 for more information. -Th Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold its first meeting tonight at 6:30 at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Dues should be paid at the meeting. 
-The Observer 
Mike Stonebreaker, inside linebacker on the Notre Dame football team, has been named defensive player of the week by The Sporting News. The junior from River Ridge, La., recorded two solo tackles and 17 assisted ones last Saturday against Michigan. -The Ob­server 
The NO TaeKwonDo Club has workouts every Monday and Wednesday from 8:30 to 10 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC gym. Beginners and ad­vanced students are welcome. For more infor­mation, contact Richard Jennings at x1943. -The Observer 
n.oa..-Notre o.me office, loc:.ted on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, eccepts classified 8dvertlslng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.oa..-Saint Mary's office, loc:.ted on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts ci&Salfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claaslfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaslfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person ()( by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per fiVf chancters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 
TEXTBOOKS .. Bought & Sofd .. Books tor ALL classes still available' UN· BEAT ABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just oN ol N D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 
WORD PROCESSING 277·5014 
The last hne ol the victors IS Ha•l' Hail! To M1ch1gan the leaders and the besfll Good luck to both IRISH and UM in beating MSUII 
NAACP GENERAL MEETING 7 PM 124 HAYES HEALY ACADEMIC SUCCESS SPEAKER ERSKINE PETERS ALL WELCOME 
LOST/FOUND 
I LOST My Intermediate Macro Book (the blue one) 1n O'SHAG AM t 17 or maybe at the Library. The first two chapters were boring but I'd like 11 back anyway. Bill xt436 
LOST IN NOH 9-S:MY STUDENT ID AND DETEX PLEASE CALL MARY BETH AT 1825 
REWARD I LOST A GOLD SCAPULA AND 30" GOLD CHAIN THAT MY FATHER GAVE TO ME BEFORE HE DtED LAST YEAR. IT IS OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE I PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 1781. 
I LOST MY CLASS RING SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS (MAYBE THE LIBRARY) SOMETIME DURING THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS. THE RING LOOKS LIKE MOST GUY'S NO RINGS, GOLD WITH A BLUE STONE, BUT THE ENGRAVING INSIDE SAYS "S.A.K. 89" I'M OFFERING A BIG REWARD ($$$$) 
IF YOU CAN HELP ME FINO IT. NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF YOU'VE HAD IT FOR AWHILE. PLEASE CALL ME IF YOU CAN HELP. THANKS! SCOTI 1075 
I LOST MY CLEATS SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN THE LIBRARY AND THE ACC ON FRIDAY Q10. PLEASE CALL TERESA AT 3884 IF FOUND. 
LOST: PAIR OF RAYBAN WAYFARER SUNGLASSES ON FRI Q9 BETWEEN STEPAN PICNIC AND KNOTI. TOR· TOISESHELL FRAMES. GREAT SEN· TIMENTAL AND MEDICAL VALUE. REWARD (I'M DESPERATE...) CALL JULIE AT 4800. 
FOUND: A set ol car keys were found outside ol Grace on Sunday. Call 4200 to claim. 
LOST FRIDAY Q9 BETWEEN C-1 AND O'SHAG, A BLUE WALLET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL EILEEN AT 287·2882 BEFORE 10:00 P.M. PLEASE, I HAVE NO IDENTITY WITHOUT THIS. 
LOST near Farley! Blue 10 holder with Iowa Drivers License. Will Reward! x4059 
LOST: A PAIR OF BROWN VAURNET SUNGLASSES AT THE NDMICH GAME. IF YOU FIND THEM PLEASE RETURN A.S.A.P. THEY WERE A GIFT REWARDII SUSAN SMC 5039 
FOR RENT 
Nice turn. home Sale area near N.D. 
287 -6389·683-8889 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY lor game weekends. 219-291-7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE AREA 255· 36841.!88-0955 
COMMUTING? Need place in SB couple nights per week? Furnished room (house privileges) lor rent to mature. non­smoking person. $120tnonth, call David, 232·8327. 
WANTED 
Cocktail Waitresses Variety ol shifts,will work around classes,good money. Apply at Ramada Inn ol South Bend. 
SEXI Now that I have your attention, 1 will offer ANYTHING but this lor 4 GA tickets to the ND·Pur(don't) game Sept. 
24. PLEASE HELPI Call Brett at 283­2850. 
oiisf>eFiArELv N~d·2:3-f>eNN.sr'ArE 
TICKETS!! Please call Heather at 277­3268 alter 5 p.m. 
ROOMATE WAMTEO: $186.50tnonth e utilities. Call 288·6802 lor more inlorma· lion. 
WANT PERSON TO ASSIST IN MUSIC PROMOTION. Must have good commu­niCation skills. Call Steve 289·071 5. 
Restaurant 
Opportunltle1 
The Olive Garden Italian Re1taurent, 
with Ita lively 1plrlt and unique garden 
oettlng, 

11 now hiring All POSITIONS: 
. Hosts & Hostesses 
. Bartenders 
. Welters & Waltresoes 
. Ca1hler1 
. Dl1hwasher..Uttllty 
. Line cooks 

. Production & Prep Cook1 
. Bu1oera 
. Pasta Makers 

Ple..e apply 2pm-4pm, dally, at: 
The Olive Garden 
6410 Grape Road 
Mlahaw1ka 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
THE OLIVE GARDEN 

The Accent's On Succe81 
HELPI NEED RIDE HOME lor this weekend.Anyone going east on Toll Rd. Will pay lor gase. Call Joe 3364. 
TICKETS WANTED NEED MIAMI AND AIR FORCE GA'S I HAVE TWO PURDUE GA'S TO TRADE OR $$$CASH$$$ CALL 277·2676 
WANTED COPY OF BEACH BOYS 
GREATEST HITS ALBUM NEED TO 
MAKE A TAPE BY FRI. Q16 CALL 283­
3517 
........................ 

APPLE LASER PRINTER For use with Macintosh. $$ Call Craig 283-1659 
SKI FREEl -BEACH FREEl Earn top commissions and tree trips promoting WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach trips I Call Sunchase Tours today lor our campus rep. into kit. t-800-321-5911.
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS TAX FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 
FOR SALE Apple lie Computer w' exter­nal disk, modem, mouse and all software needed. $750 OBO Call Bob at x1432 after 6pm for information. 
TICKETS 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X2743 

GOOD MONEY OFFERED FOR 2 GA'S TO ANY NO HOME GAME. CALL GRETCHEN X4805 
NEED 2 GA's TO MIAMI & 2 GA's TO PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$$$$ BRIAN 272-0291 
HELP!I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S. WILL PAY BIG $. CALL 284-4099 OR 264­5455 
................................ I need 4 GA's lor Rice. Call Nancy 4434 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE; CALL ROGELIO 277·4416 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL TINA 4852. 
Extra GEORGE WINSTON tix? I will buy t to 311 Call Heather,1297 
BADLY NEEDED: 2 tickets to NO-MSU Sept. 17th Call collect 312-541-4595 Thanks. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR AIR FORCE CALL ANN 284-4043 
HELPIII I DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S. PLEASE CALL PEGGY AT SMC X5494 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS! WILL DO ANYTHING WITHIN ETHICAL AND LE­GAL LIMITS TO GET MIAMI STUDS OR GA'S CALL SHARON I t1 2873 
Do you need student tickets? Call 2753 or 2775734 
HELPII NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI. $$$ NIC X287_0 
HELP I NEED 2STANFORD AND 2 RICE GA'sllll!l CALL DIEDRA AT 277-1416 
HELP! MY PARENTS WILL COME All THE WAY FROM ALASKA IF I HAVE 2 STANFORD TICKETS. CALL 3541 NOW. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL ERIN AT 3757. 
NEED TO TRADE I Purdue GA tor I Stanford GA Call Carolyn X3799 
RICH RELATIVES NEED 4 GA'S FOR ANY GAME ... HAVE AUTHORIZED LARGE EXPENSE ACCOUNT CALL KIRSTIN X2630 
I REALLY NEED 4 STANFORD STU­DENT TIX TWO STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE AND 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE COMING IN FOR MY BIRTHDAY. PLEASE HELP ME GET MY PRESENTSIIIIIIIIIIIII CALL JOHN X2163 
DESPERATE FOR TWO (2) PURDUE GA TIX II PLEASE CALL Ill DAN X3286. 
I NEED 3 GA's FOR PURDUE GAME. $$$ IS NO OBJECT. PATRICK x4645 
-Football Tlcket1 Four GA'a or as many a1 po811ble tor Miami, Penn St., and Air Force Cell 284-5280 or 287 • 7752 anytime Thank you eo much 
need 6 PURDUE GA's call Fitz 1563 
.................................... 
FOR SALE OR TRADE: 2 GA's to Rice and Stanford. I need 2 GA's to the Air Force Game, and I'd like to trade these. but I'll take the best offer, too II Call Chris at 3271 with your offer. 
Will buy stud. fix -Stanford: GAs -Miami. Call Dena 277-5294 
WILL TRADE 2 RICE GA'S PLUS 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICK FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL JIM 232-4156. 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S t1 1086 
Need 2 GA's 4 Air Force. Offering$$$$ Call Dan 288-8532 
WILL PAY$ OR TRADE AF STUD FOR PU STUD. CALL STEVE AT t1 1083 
DESPERATELY SEEKING STANFORD GA'$..·CALL OP X4050 
I need 2 MICH ST.,also 1 MIAMI or PENN,$$$ Call 1934 or 1955 
................................................................ 
Miami GA goes to highest bidder x-4802 
I need 3 Purdue Tix! x4802 
NEED 7 MIAMI TICKETS GA CALL SHARON 2845464 
REMAINING HOME TIX FOR SALEII (all In ume oec. neglected trosh) X3201 lv. mea1. 
NEED 1 PU-STUDENT TICKET CALL JOHN 1427 
I NEED 1 PURDUE TIX CALL MARY 4072 
Need 6 Penn State GA's desperately! Call t1 4861 lor instant profit! 
WILL TRADE 2 MSU TIX AND $$$ FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL JIM 1010 
I need one ticket lor Purdue, STUD or GA. Willing to buy or to trade lor Air Force. Cindy x4149. 
I need 2 or 3 Air Force GAs. Please call Kate 2526. 
I need 2 GA and 1 Student fix tor Purdue. Call Brad t1 3170 
Need GAs 2 Miami, 4 Penn State, Call t1 3348 lor much $$$$ 
................................................................ 
WILL TRADE 3 GOOD STANFORD GA FOR 3 PURDUE OR 4 AIR FORCE. 287 9341 
NEED 2 STUD AND 2 GOOD GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME$$$ CALL 1535 
My lite is in jeopardy! I need two AIR FORCE GAs $$ Laura X4962 
Will trade 2 AirForce GA lor 2 MIAMI. PLEASE call 2238 
IT NEVER HURTS TO TRY ..... IF YOU HAVE 2 MICHIGAN STATE TIX, PLEASE LET ME BUY THEMIII CALL MIMI AT SMC 5221 
I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S OR I CAN'T GO HOME FOR CHRISTMASIII PLEASE CALL SANDY AT SMC 5221 
PERSONALS 
ORDER USA TODAY delivered to your dorm door. CALL 277-1859 
FOOTBALL GAMEl PLEASE NOTIFY A.S.A.P. MAURA 4310 
HAPPY 21ST BETTY ..... 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE GARDEN HAVE A GREAT 18TH LOVE ALL YOUR FRIENDS ESP. A.M.¢R.M. 

SENORITA JEANINE COOK FELIZ CUMPLEANOS Ill AMOR Y BESOS STEPHANIE,JENNIFER,HOLL Y ,LORI 
LOT LIZARD BECKLEY HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY LOOK OUT FRIDAVI 
CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHENANIGANS 277-1727 
CAMPUS BANDS NEEDED CALL DAVE AT SHANANIGANS 277-1727 

NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. CALL MIKE AT 289-6623 
I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE GEORGE WINSTON--IF YOU HAVE ANY EXTRA TICKETS, PLEASE CALL MELISSA 2756 
LONG ISLAND STUDENTS LOND ISLAND STUDENTS LONG ISLAND STUDENTS Of course there's a Fall Break Bus Ill More importantly. we'llleave after the Irish blow away the Hurricanes and we'll be back in time to witness the Falcons shot down. We'll have lots lo celebrate on board, hence we'll be immersed In party "spirits". Hurry, space is limited to 49 people. Cost: $80 round trip ($45 one way). Call Lou (x1433)... ONLY A DORK WOULD FlVIII 
................................................................ 
HEY. THE PRES. OF THE WINDSURF­ING CLUBCALL JOHN AT 283-3349. I WANT TO JOIN THE CLUB. THANKS. 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAME! ST. MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
FOR SALE: 1 stud MIAMI fix-best otter· call Uza 2534 
HELPII WE ARE IN DESPERATE NEED OF A RIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON FRI . SEPT. 16 AND BACK SUN. SEPT. 18 . WE WILL PAY YOUR GAS AND TOLLS . PLEASE CALL CHRIS OR PAIGE AT X2923 . 
The "Guns ol War" Is now tree and able. X-2 is ou1 and all valuptious babes are in. Go get 'em dude! 
LISA: Are you In AL 211-62? You have an admirer! RSVP -T.D. 
I HAVE $20 FOR A PURDUE STUD TICKET CALL CHRIS 272-8689 
JER.-EThanks lor playing Fri. It was great! I still think we deseiVe the T-shirts thoughll CAR. 
NAA.C.P. DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS? FINO OUT. THEN II GENERAL MEETING TONIGHT, OPEN TO ALL 124 HAYES-HEALY 7:00PM 
ACADEMIC SUCCESS SPEAKER: OR. ERSKINE PETERS ON WRITING SKILLS N.AAC.P... FINO OUTIII--THEN "FOLLOW THE LEADER" 
................................................................ 
PAUL I'M SORRY I YAKED ON YOUI KUMBAYA FROM YOUR MANOR ROOMATE 
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES FIND A DATE IrS COMING OCT. 7 
APPY BIRTHDAY SCOOTER FROM YOUR PALS ON THE ALLEYIIIII MAKE YOUR 18TH A YEAR TO REMEMBER GO ALUMNI !IIIII 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS JUST CAN'TWJNIIII II we aren't loud enough, they tell us we are "lame" and "weak." When we do cheer, chumps like Michael Taylor com­plain to the ref and we get a penalty. Whet are we to do ..applaud politely and during time-outs? I think notl IRISH SPIRIT IS BACK Ill! 
AVOID THE RUSHIIII 

Hate Rice Earlylll 
eo"';:ii·e..·;;;;;.·,·c;,;·AN····;;;;;;~;· ..sirtt.d;~ 
Mush, you tool. neB. I want a beked potato... Oh stop. Push If. You make my eyes water. Fisher. I want bread and 1ce cream now. Your teet. Crystal Light? Ed the bartender. CG? What a nosel 
........................................ 

Vicky E. There are more roses growing behind Sorin. 
MIKE·~·~·.:;~~~~~i~iy·;;;;;·,~·;·,~~;;;;;·~~~ 
friends forever" yet "what started out as friendship HAS grown stronger". Let's just say "II would take a strong. strong. WOMAN" to tight this feeling any longarl 3 years ago (heck, 3 WEEKS agel) who would have predicted this? All I know Is I'm HAPPY (and I wouldn't want to dis­appoint our parents!) It's going to be a very interesting year. .. Jove, Amy 
cHic.Ai36 .. Eius ···;:;:;·;,:;:::w·iNov"'C'irv 
SHUTILE' sponsored by the Student Ac­tivities Office, will run this Saturday, Sep­tember 17. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 9:45 am and retum at 10 pm. Tickets are available lor $10.00 at the Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. Next shu!He will run Saturday, October 
8. 
................................................................ 
Boy Is It a relief to know that Beth and Pete are just lnends. The world has been waiting lor this news lor months! Now 1 can sleep soundly at night knowing that Beth and Pete are just lrlende. Bu1 please, next time, don't be so cheap 
about it. Take out a lull page ad instead ol these rinky dink personals... 
................................................................ 
TOASTMASTERS 
TOASTMASTERS 

223 HAYES-HEALY 9-14-88 7:30 -8:30 
PM FIRST MEETING ALL WELCOME 
................................................................ 
RIGHT TO LIFE DORM REPS 
Forget the meeting Sun? Pick up Info In 243 Siegfried ASAP 
""" NAA.C.P.... DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS? WELL. FINO OUT THENIII GENERAL MEETlNG, TONIGHTJI OPEN TO ALL 124 HAYES-HEALY 7:00P.M. ACADEMIC SUCCESS SPEAKER: OR. ERSKINE PETERS N.AAC.P.--"FOLLOW THE LEADER Ill" 
Saction 34 Row 21 

DEBBIE from Farley Yes it's awesome 
to meet so many girls lrom Farley BUT 
What's Your laat Name????? p.s. 
hope your back feels better Chris from 
Stanford 

~RiC'H~'FROM..BcAc PAFiTY'ON'9~9~88: 
"IT IS YOUI" -1 THINK YOU ARE CHARMING PLEASE RESPOND HERE SIGNED: MADAME X 
I need a ride WEST on 1-80 to Princeton, 
II. on Friday Q16. II you are headed that way, please call Brenda at 40591 
HAVE FRIENDS ABROAD? SEND THEM A PERSONAL IN STU­DENT GOVERNMENrS FOREIGN STUDY NEWSLETIERI PUT YOUR MESSAGE AND 50 CENTS FOR EVERY 20 WORDS IN AN ENVELOPE. DROP IT OFF IN THE STUDENT GOV­ERNMENT OFFICES OR AT 427 BP ?'S -MARY 1383 
Thenka to all the guys who answered the 
fingernail SUIVey. Here are the results we promised (other promising results are un­publishable): 1 science geek actually preferred girls with unpainted nails. Of the 49 guys who preferred painted nails, 40 were turned on by red, 5 went lor "Sooner red." t lusty young fellow definitely desired deep maroon, 1 weirdo had a fetish lor black, 1 Young Republi­can voted lor red, white and blue, and t Stanford Stud lusted alter women with color-hcoordinatlng nails and hair aoces­sories. P.S. Didn't you guys have anyth­ing better to do than answer stupid ques­tions? 
HELP! MY FRIEND FROM MIAMI, OHIO NEEDS A RIDE TO SO. BEND ANY WEEKEND SOON I POSSIBLY FOR A 
---~-~----....,._----~-------------------~---~~---~--­

Tuesday, September 13, 1988 

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS WHO SIGNED UP AT \ ACTIVI_TIES NIGHT //. 
__. if 
STUDENT UNION BOARD, 

t 
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO THE S.U.B. RECEPTION, TUES SEPT 13, 6:3D PM AT 
Peter Floody Jeff Jotz Ureg Miller Anton Salud David Florenzo Karen Kafivre Diego Miron Nader Samii
THEODORE'S 
Alice Flores Susan Kaiser Brian Mitchell Melanie Sanchez 
Cathy Flynn Jennie Karaffa Jim Mohan Michael Sartori Madeline Castellini
Amy Adamonis Jerry Ford Keith Kavanaugh Derek Mohr Erika Schenkel Ramira Alamilla Laura Cattaneo Lisa Fox Greg Keary Armando Mojica Ed Schmitt Liz Anroman Trina Chapman Lenia Franklin Stacey Kelly Laura Mollach Jennifer Schneider Anthony Aquilo Susan Choi Katie Freeman Heather Kern Kathy Mooney Jane Schoelch 
Chris Chung Vivek
Eric Bailey Brad Fuller Kateri Kerwin Marci Moran Seth 
Chris Churchill
James Balesh Steve Fuller Nancy Kesmodal Hector Moreno Andria Settles 
Jeff Balesh Susan Coene Paul Fulling Eric Kidd Sherry Morris Julie Shephard 
Frank Barletta Rebecca Coles Gafvert Sara Moughan
Kristin Killen
Judi Char Sheridan 
Eric Barley Jennifer Coli 
Laura Garcia Anthony King Annmarie Mullen Shortal
Brian
Brian Collins
Jesilyn Barnes Carlos Garcia Anthony Kiny Terry Mullen Mike Sinnot 
Robert Bartylla Chris Collins Tracy Garrison Koch Mike Murphy
Juli Sue Skaryzynski
Cathy Baytion Vienna Colucci 
Dan Gehred Kathy Kopecki Matt Murphy Mike SomtagPaul Conway
Elizabeth Baytion David Geist Amy Kraft Maureen Murph Sara SpencerKelley Cook
Jason Beiter Elizabeth Gimber Amy Krok Tom Nath Ellen Spiering
Kristin Costello
Ann Belaski Mike Glastetter Mark Kromkowski Jeff Nold Michael Starnes
Jim Costigan
Diedre Bell Mike Nolte
Diane Gleason John Kuss 
Michele SteeleJenn Costojan
Derrick Benn Nowak
Carrie Gokes Beth Kuzmick Anton Rob Stevenson
John Coughlin
Kirstin Bennet Kelly Golden Louis LaGrange Mike Nugent Sally StevensonBrad Bettinger Wally Crapps Marukel Nung
Melissa Gorham Ellen Lanser 
Jon StewartTim Bettinger Matt Cutler Deb Grady Betst O'Brien
Rodger Laurite karen Stohr
Mike Beveridge Lynn Damitz Sean O'Neill
Donna Gramm Emily Lawson John Stoj
John Boehling Ian Day Mike O'Rourke
Laurie Greco Kevin Leathers John Strieder
Stephanie Boerger Jenny Degnan Sally Greene Christine Oehler
Meg Lehner Guy StriegelSteve DeickChristine Bond 
Jennifer Griffin Leik
Andrew Jim Oreco Ted Stumph
Nicole Borchard Julie Depke 
Angela Gross Ellen Lewis 
Regina Ormond Michael SullivanSusie DicksonPeter Bottini 
Brian Grunest Jennifer Liss 
Cristina Ortiz Julie SullivanL:isa Bourdon Maria DiPasquale 
Beatriz Gruz George Long 
Gene Otto Tony TalaricoBoyce Renee Dodson
Peggy Darla Haberle Candy Lyon 
Scott Ovarbeck Michelle TamborDebbie Brady Dottie Domanslei 
Holly Habermel Rachel Lyons 
Michael Owens Tom ThomasKim Bray Mark Donohue 
Fauzian Hag Michele Mackey 
Rich Pagen Maryanne Th.umserCardine Brock Kendall Dormina Chris Hanley Jim Maher 
Vince Pangelinan Mark ThumserJack Brogan Maura Dorrycott 
Jeff Hanna Margie Manzano 
Ray Parhad Trish TierneyTim Brooks Pete Doucette 
Steve Hanson Kathleen Mara 
Scott Parker Chenoa Topash
George Brophy Brian Douglas Kathy Hardiek Laura Martinez Maria Peda Heidi TracymanJulie Bryant Dull
Ju-lie Kristen Harknett Bruce Marts 
Zaida Pericas Jennifer TrucanoJoe Bucolo Emily Dwyer Lisa Harper Melanie Masin Dave Perri Nikki TwymanAnn Bull Lisa Eaton Scott Harris Chris May Steve Petros Bridget UnderwoodChris Burke Brad Ebben Jeanne Heffernan Jason May John Plumb Pat VedraTracy Burke Pat Egan :Mark Heilman Fran Mayer Laura Polutanovic Marisa VillalobosSusan Bushnell Pat Egan Sandy Henson Craig Mayeux Marci Poorman Deandre Villarrea(Vicki Buth Monica Eilberger Kathy ~-line hey Tim McAdam Rob Pritchard Greg VolanLisa Cabral Stacy Elbright Suzanne !-loctor 
Susan McCoonville Rob Pritchard Glenn WalbergSue Elias
Mike CaldwelL Jason Hoida Kelly McDermott Doug Radtke Chris Wallace
Tricia Ellis Meg Holiday
Gina Cammaren1 Kris McDonald Tom Rath Denise Walters
Nicole Farmer 
Frederick HolzgreteKelli Campbell Megan McGarry Helen Read Amy WandstratBrendan Fay 
Sean Howley
Dominic Campenelll Mike McMahon Brian Reardon Jay Wasinda
Lila Fernandez Lee Hubert
Chris Cano Rich McManus Thorn Reynolds Kevin Weise
Doug Fiegel 
Zack Hudgins
Michelle Cano James McMullan Jorge Richa Audrey Welling
Kelly Fitzpatrick Jane Hughes
Pete Canwell McPhee Roach Chris Weloh
Scott Shannon
Mark Fitzpatrick
Cesar Capella Kevin Hurley Jennifer McRedmond Julie Robertson Allison WhiteKevin Flaherty
Tiffany Carr Barb Izzo Rebecca Meehan Jeff Robertson
Mike Flanagan Lee Whitman
Jim Carrig Echelon Jackson Chris Mello Tim Rock
Rachel Flanagan Jerry Jaco!Js Kurt WilberdingMelinda Carver 
John Merli Amy Rolling
John Fletcher Laura Janih Tiffany WilsonStephanie Case Rob Romer
Todd Jasin Winslack
Kevin Casey Jason WinsladeAdeline Cassin 

Beth Wittman Wright Zayko Zepeda 
Tuesday, September 13, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Hurst captures 17th for Sox 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-Bruce Hurst won his 17th game and Ellis Burks got three hits and scored three runs Monday night as the Boston Red Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles 
6-1. 
Hurst, 17-5, gave up one run on nine hits in 6 2-3 in­nings. He won for the eighth time in nine decisions and is 12-1 at Fenway Park this season. 
Tigers 6, Blue Jays 5 
Chet Lemon hit a three­run homer and scored the go-ahead run on Darrell Evans' pinch-single in the eighth inning Monday night as the Detroit Tigers 
defeated  the Toronto  Blue  
Jays 6-5, snapping  a  four­ 
game losing streak.  

The victory, following a disheartening four-game weekend sweep in New York, was only the fourth in the Tigers' last 21 games. Detroit remained 31/2 games behind American League East-leading Boston. 
Indians 8, Yankees 6 
Greg Swindell beat New York for the second time in a week and rookie Luis Medina hit a two-run homer Monday night as the Cleveland Indians held off a furious ninth-inning rally to end the Yankees' four-game winning streak 8-6. 
New York scored five times in the ninth on a three­run homer by Jack Clark and solo home runs by Luis Aguayo and Joel Skinner. Doug Jones, the third pitcher of the inning, entered with a runner on first base and Rickey Henderson got an in­field single. 

AP Photo 

Jose Canseco (1), Doug Jennings and the Oakland Athletics have had plenty to celebrate lately, as they have taken a commanding 
lead In the American League West. 
Expos 14, Cardinals 2 
Nelson Santovenia drove in five runs as the Montreal Expos routed St. Louis 14-2 Monday night to snap the Cardinals' seven-game win­ning streak. 
Mets 3, Pirates 2 
Gary Carter hit a home run with one out in the ninth inning to give New York a 3-2 victory over the Pit­tsburgh Pirates Monday night and reduce the Mets' magic number for clinching the National League East title to 10 games. 
• 
IRISH ROADTRIF 
RENDEZ-VOUS 
At Michigan State 
• 
Rally outside the stadium with N.D. Students Saturday
.

morn1ng. 
•Orange juice and donuts 

served 
Pick up maps to State and Campus area starting Wednesday at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Sponsored by Student Union Board, Senior, Junior and Sophomore Classes. 
Phillies 5, Cubs 1 
Bob Dernier's run-scoring single snapped a seventh-• inning tie and rookie Ron Jones drove in three runs as the Philadelphia Phillies beat Chicago 5-1 Monday night to send the Cubs to their fifth straight loss. 
White Sox 2, Brewers 1 
Mike Diaz and pinch-hitter Russ Morman singled home runs with two outs in the bot­tom of the ninth inning Mon­day night and the Chicago White Sox rallied past Mil­waukee 2-1 and hurt the Brewers' hopes in the Amer­ican League East. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
the 

Women's soccer team drops two road games 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team dropped a pair of games on the road over the weekend, evening their season record at 2-2. 
The Irish fell 2-0 at Indiana on Friday and 1-0 to Lake For­est on Saturday afternoon. 
The Indiana game was a back-and-forth affair which was tightly contested until the middle of the second half, when the Hoosiers broke the game open with two quick goals. The Irish had seen Indiana in seasons past when both teams were under club status. 
Against Lake Forest, Notre Dame outshot the Foresters 25­6 and were still held scoreless. But as Head Coach Dennis Grace indicates, the scoring is just a matter of time. 
"I'm not diosappointed in the least with the girls," said Grace, who also coaches the men's soccer program. "In soccer, offense is not the con­stant. You can have 18 million shots on goal and still lose. If you play good defense, you're not going to lose many. That's the constant. 
"If you go into a game knowing that your opponent isn't going to score on you, that loosens things up quite a bit toward that end. We're making very good progress in that di­rection. The girls are working hard in practice and they know the scoring will come." 
Lake Forest's winning goal came on a breakaway in the second half. 
The Irish next see action against Western Michigan next Sunday at 11 a.m. at Krause Stadium. 
•

Belles w1n tourney 
By ELIZABETH VANDERSARL Sports Writer 
Following a win in Fort Wayne on Thursday over Saint Francis, Saint Mary's fought a long battle against exhaustion and first-game losses to place first in the Kalamazoo tourney last weekend. 
The Belles had a shakey start on Thursday as they fell 11-15 in the first game against Saint Francis. "I was pleased with the play of senior captain Tami Suth. Tami really dug in and im­
proved  her  level  of  play  
throughout  the  match,"  said  
head coach Sue Medley.  

Under the leadership of Suth, the Belles rallied back in the second game 15-8 and gave a strong showing, 13-15, in the third. The effectiveness of Suth at the net, and the strong per­formances of freshmen Kim Rajski and Jennifer Smith ex­emplified the unyielding spirit of the Belles. They displayed a strong finish of 15-7 and 15-9 in the final games. 
10 teams, divided into two pools of five, competed in Sat­urday's tourney at Kalamazoo. 
OVIeS 

series presents "Good Morning, Vietnam" September 13, 14, & 15 
Carroll Auditorium 
9 & 11 pm 
$1.00 admission 
co-sponsored by Saint Mary's Junior Class 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOWRENTINGFOR FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th and get ONE MONTH RENTFREE 
Offk:e at 110 NO A.e 
~7 
C.UAa,.U.. 

The Belles finished 3-1 in their pool after defeating Aquinas College, Nazareth College, and Kalamazoo Valley Community College. 
"The team really came to­gether after the first loss in the pool and rebounded to a well­improved level of play," Med­ley said. 
Placing first in the pool en­abled Saint Mary's to advance to the semi-finals. They faced 
Kalamazoo  College  and  
claimed  victory  after  three  
swift games.  

"It was a tough match, but everyone played well," Medley said. "It would be impossible to single out one player who contributed more than another. It was truly a team effort.'' 
The Belles suffered a first­game defeat to Tri-State in the finals 6-15, but held on to take the upper hand. Victory was theirs with two dominating final games of 15-12 and 15-9. 
"It was a big win early in the season," Medley said. "For the first time we acted together throughout a whole tourna­ment. The last match was a su­perb effort, especially the come back during the last two games." 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
after the team's first six games . 
The surprise of the tourna­ment was the great play of sophomore right side hitter and setter Amy White. 
White tallied 16 assists in 30 attempts for the Irish for an as­tounding .533 assist percentage and played a solid all-around match. 
Seniors Whitney Shewman and Maureen Shea contributed 43 and 41 digs, respectively, to complete a strong Notre Dame performance on the road. 
"We can feel ourselves com­ing together," said Shea. "Our passes are improving and we're hoping we can really score big." 
The Irish now prepare for an­other road trip that will take them to Colorado for the Holiday InMJniversity Park Classic. 
"I think we may have turned the corner," said Lambert. 

_sa_i_d_h_e_ad__ J_un_i_or J_e_nn_u_e_r___B_l_o__ ~se:a:s:on:·~~============~~============~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c_oa_c_h_D_e_b_L_a_v_e_r_re_.____ ____ ck, 
1 
was an underclassman in a line IT 
page 14 The Observer 
Kelvin Edwards (r) and the Dallas Cowboys 
downed the Phoenix Cardinals In NFL action Mon­
AP Photo Phoenix after moving from St. louis at the end of last season. 
day night. The game was the home opener for 
SMC tennis dominates Hillsdale 
By MARY KATE COYLE This year's top six players playing at No. 2 singles, feels Sports Writer consist of three freshmen, who confident about this year's 
have proven to be strong assets team. 
TheSaintMary'stennisteam to the team. These players are "We're a very young team traveled to Hillsdale Friday Ellen Mayer, Angie Mueller with lots of potential," Block and captured an 8-1 victory. and MarieKoscielski at fourth, said. "With Deb's strong The win gave the Belles a 2-0 fifth and sixth singles respec-coaching, I think we'll be able record going for their fall tively. to recapture the state title this season. "They looked very good in year." 
"The team knew Hillsdale practice, but I was especially With two wins already was not one of our stronger pleased to see that they are real engraved on their record and competitors, but they went into competitors, as reflected in the the addition of three dynamicthe match with intensity and match against Hillsdale," said freshmen, tbe Belles appear on solidly defeated Hillsdale," Laverie. their way to a successful 
Vital 
continued from page 16 
Dame,' and I haven't yet, 
knock  on  wood,''  continued  
Grunhard.  
Grunhard  also  made  his  

name known on special teams last year for his uncanny abil­ity to be the first man down on defense after snapping the ball on punts. 
"This year they're starting to cut down on me,'' said Grun­hard. "It started the last two games of last year, and then Michigan did it. They've started to see me on films. That's freeing up some of the sprinters. I'd rather have a guy with 4.4 speed running down there anyway." 
Grunhard's other role on the team, as offensive guard, has grown much more demanding. 
Whereas last year, Grunhard 
full of seniors, now he is the only lineman with much expe­rience at his position. 
"Last year I looked up to guys like (co-captains) Chuck Lanza and Byron Spruell," said Grunhard. "They were stu­dents ofthe game. We have two leaders on the line this year. <Tackle) Andy Heck leads by example, and I try to talk it up. 
"I'm trying to emulate Chuck,'' continued Grunhard. "He was kind of boisterous and just an outstanding player. It was exciting playing next to a partially attributes his success at Notre Dame to a variety of things that have nothing to do with football. 
"I wanted to break out and meet other people," said Grun­hard. "I didn't want to just hang out with the football players. I wanted to be a part of the students and the dorm (St. Edward's Hall). 
"Sometimes you need people to talk to besides football players," Grunhard continued. "I'm glad I have a girlfriend, so n I'm feeling down in the dirt, I can talk to her and she doesn't care how practice was or nI missed a pass block. She just cares about how I feel. Good advice to freshman players is to break out, get in­volved in the dorm and find someone to talk to so it's not football all the time." 

===========~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~====~~~::::~::~~~ 

THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
ARE PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT THE FOLLOWING STUDENTS HAVE BEEN SELECTED AS­
JOHN J. REILLY SCHOLARS 
STUDENT ONION PRESENTS: SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 AT 8:00 p.m. WASHINGTON HALL 
Tuesday-Friday Tickets will be on sale in the Lafortune Ticket Stub 
$4 student $6 general public 
Tuesday, September 13, 1988 

Dallas ruins debut of Cards at home 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz.-Herschel Walker ran for 149 yards, scored one touchdown and set up another as the Dallas Cow­boys beat the self-destructing Phoenix Cardinals 17-14 Mon­day night to spoil the Cards' home debut in Arizona. 
Walker, who carried 29 times, scored on a 3-yard run at the end of a bang-bang 79­yard drive in the second quar­ter. 
Then he carried nine times for 58 yards on a 13-play, 81­yard drive in the fourth quarter that was capped by quarerback Steve Pelluer's 1-yard sneak with 5:23 left in the game. 
That put Dallas at 1-1 and spoiled things for the crowd of 67,139 at the Cardinals' first game here after 28 years in St. 
Notre Dame Orchestra 

openings for 
String Bass and Bassoon 
Call Carl Starn 
Department of Music 239-5105 

MOMIX 
'I : j 

IIr[ ________________ -..
[ ___________________ _ 
"UANCERS OFASTm.'ISHING T.4Ll'NT 11.\JD 1.\ll;LI\'U/]') 
-fllll \li:n 't11.t/ 
Louis. That was 5,036 short of Sun Devil Stadium capacity, al­though a local television station bought 3,000 seats so game could be shown locally. Most of the empty seats were in an up­per corner of the top deck along the goal line. 
Heat didn't seem to affect the game. 
The temperature was 98 degrees at kickoff but the humidity was just 15 percent and the players seemed unaf­fected, particularly Walker. 
His 3-yard sweep around left end came at the end of a three­play, 79-yard drive that con­sumed just 1:06. It included a 26-yard run by Walker, a 47­yard pass from Steve Pelluer to Michael Irvin that carried to the six and a half-the-distance to the goal roughness call on Leonard Smith . 

guy you used to watch in high 11=============================================11 
school." Grunhard, a graduate of St. IN THE MICHAEL J. FLYNN Laurence High, was one of six 
FIVE YEAR DOUBLE DEGREE PROGRAM IN ARTS AND ANDREW E. KRAUS
linemen from the Chicago Catholic League to sign with LETTERS/ENGINEERING MICHAEL T. NOLAN 
Notre Dame in the spring of 

1986. Of those six players, Mike CLASS OF 1989 WILLIAM P. SULLIVAN Harazin is the only other one lb:====:=======================================:::::::l! 
still with the Irish. Grunhard 


------~--------­
Tuesday, September 13, 1988 
CAMPUS 
Noon Kellogg Institute Seminar "Renewal of Develop­ment Theory--Latin America and China," by Kellogg Distinguished Faculty Fellow, Professor Gao Xian, of the Chinese Academy of Social Concerns, Beijing, China, in 131 Decio. 
Noon Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture "AIDS Policy Concerns," by Dr. Theodore Cooper, chairman of the board and CEO of The Upjohn cgmpany, Law School Courtroom. 
6:00 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all senior Finance, Management, Market­ing, Economics, and MBA students interested in career opportunities with CONOCO, Inc., in the upper lounge of the University Club. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film "Gold Diggers of '33," directed by Mervyn LeRoy, Annen berg Auditorium. 
7:30p.m. National Society of Black Engineers meeting in the BCAC Room on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. Minorities majoring in engineering and science are welcome. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Monterey Muffin Melt London Broil Sweet & Sour Pork Seafood Newburgh 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
JERKS 
Saint Mary's 

Meat Loaf Vegetable Chow Mein Chicken Fajitas Deli Bar 
The Observer 
page 15 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

64 Certain poems 66 Ostentatiously 
esthetic 67 Choose 68 Some bills 69 Pandowdies 70 English sandy 
tracts 71 Indulge to excess 
DOWN 
1 Spring mo. 2 Ending for auto 3 Sheer 
nonsense 4 Interfere with 5 Shaggy 6 Suffix with 
resist 7 Tropical 
snakes 8 Tub rub 9 Rathskeller 
mug 10 Kind of committee 11 A powder 
ACROSS 
1 Theatrical starter 5 Brackets on 
masts 10 Show leader 14 School event 15 Destructive 
craft 
16 "I would a­unfold ...": Shak. 
17 Coarse file 18 List of 
candidates 19 Leafy shaders 20 Creation of 40 
Across 23 Porter's "Ni9,ht and 
24 Neither's partner 25 Poplar 28 Mild untruth 31 Egypt's river 34 Coupe or sedan 35 Comes up 38 Title 40 Lewis Carroll 43 Josip Broz 44 Addison's 
partner 45 W.W. II theater 46 String follower 48 Opposite of 

NNE 49 Nostrils 51 Theologian's 
deg. 53 Johnny­54 Creation of 40 Across 62 Pro­63 Military fieldwork 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

12-mater 13 Take five 21 Erie is one 22 White House 
nickname 25 Bank abbr. 26 Title of respect 
in Delhi 27 Chatter 28 Fighting tools 29 Emerald and 
others 30 Moisten, in a way 

32 Kind of beam 33 Express 
effusively 36 Legal thing 37 Money in Peru 39 Slaughter of 
baseball fame 41 Streets, etc. 42 Star in Cygnus 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
NAif. 
I I\ 
loJE.'LL TR.Y TO 

47 A degree 50 Seminary 
heads 52 Engaged 53 Carries on 54 Links hazard 55Mata­56 Diminutive 
ending 
57 Far: Comb. form 58 Statesman or garden 59 Horse or 
human chaser 
60 Thought 
61 Big top 
65 Winddir. 
Gary Larson • 


... ~0 
REI'f{'IIN ~11.01'\ US!N CO COI\OU \oiOa.bs AND PI\RASE~ SVC..Ii A~ 1-\0R~E '[ol TESTIME.1, 
TOE JAM, 

HI. 1 n !lOB, THE loJHTEI!. or -JU,K~' 
( 
L'M ~EVIN, I D~AW 'JERK~' 
UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
FOOTBALL POOL
THIS WEEKS SPECIALS 
SEPT. 17TH GAMES NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN ST. TEMPLE NAVY NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN ST. BOSTON COLLEGE PENN. ST.
TUE.--2 FREE COKES WITH ANY 114 SHEET 
MIAMI MICHIGAN LSU TENNESSEE 
OHIO PURDUE FLORIDA ST. CLEMSON SAN DIEGO ST. STANFORD ALABAMA TEXAS A&M 
WED.--1J2 SHEET WITH 2 TOPPINGS -$9.99 
THURS.--114 SHEET WITH 3 TOPPINGS -$5.99 
OHIO ST. PITTSBURGH ARIZONA OKLAHOMA NORTHWESTERN AIR FORCE 
FOR FREE DELIVERY: 277-8889 18055 SR 23 behind C.V. 
TIEBREAKER ENTER TOTAL =tf OF MATT HIGHBARGER NO '89 OWNER 
POINTS SCORED BY BOTH TEAMS IN ____vs. 
GAME 
--------------------------------------------------------------~---llllf.______________________________________________________________A~· 
Sports
page 16 Tuesday, Segtember 13, 1988 
ND volleyball squad finishes second in Saluki Invitational 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team returned from this weekend's Saluki Invita­tional4-2 after narrowly losing the tournament to Arizona. 
Notre Dame beat Arizona in its second match of the Invita­tional, but the winner was decided by comparing the total number of games each team won and lost. 
Arizona was 11-4 for the tournament and Notre Dame finished 11-5, so the Wildcats edged the Irish by one loss to take home the trophy. 
The Irish were upset by Bowling Green, but came back to tally wins against Arizona, Iowa and the host school. The Irish had three players on the all-tournam~nt team. 
Seniors Mary Kay Waller and Zanette Bennett and fresh­man Julie Bremner all received recognition for their play during the Invitational. 
"The tourney was both bad and good -in that order," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "We were up in the first two games against Bowling Green and we ended up losing in five, 
,.. but we started to come together after that match and that's a good sign." Friday morning, Notre Dame had Bowling Green down 
after winning the first two games 15-5 and 15-11, but the starters were removed going into the third game and the squad lost its momentum. 
The inexperienced Irish squad was outplayed by the Falcons and by the time the starters returned, the team could not regain its composure and dropped the final three games of the match 15-5, 15-6 and 15-9. 
The Irish then took on the tournament's eventual winner, Arizona, Friday afternoon and won the hard-fought five game match, 4-15, 16-14, 15-13, 9-15 and 15-10. 
It was a valuable victory over a Wildcat team that is looking to continue where it left off last year after qualifying for the NCAA tournament last season and dominate play in its PAC-10 Conference. 
The Irish also recorded a win over Iowa on Saturday in three games, 15-13, 15-4 and 16-14. The Haw keyes are consistently strong in the Big 10 Conferen­cee and the victory could im­prove Notre Dame's chances of earning recognition from the polling committees. 
The Salukis of Southern Illi­nois fell easily to the Irish in three games as well on Satur­day, 15-8, 15-4 and 15-5, com­pleting the team's four-match road trip in Carbondale, Ill. 
"I was encouraged by our play after the Bowling Green game, especially against Southern Illinois," said Lam­bert. "We didn't drop down to their level like we did against Bowling Green and I think we're headed in the right direc­tion now." 
Notre Dame got another strong performance out of middle blocker Waller, as she tallied 57 kills and 29 blocks for the tournament. 
Waller's control of the net has been exempliary thus far in the season and she leads the team with an impressive .318 hitting percentage and 43 blocks. 
Bennett, an outside hitter and middle blocker, continued her consistent net play as well, as she led the team with 64 kills and brought her total kills for the year up to 92. 
She also had a strong tourn­ament serving, recording eight service aces during the four­match Invitational. 
Freshman setter Julie Brem­ner, who earned all­tournament honors with Waller and Bennett in the first tourn­ament of her career, led the team with 54 digs. 
Bremner has been a steady performer as a setter, record­ing a .383 assist percentage 
see IRISH, page 13 


Grunhard's versatility vital to Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz is the first to admit there's something "a little bit different" about offensive guard Tim Grunhard. 
"He really is a kickback to the football players in the olden days," said the third-year Irish coach. "He would love football even better if he didn't have a face mask, or if you could fold your helmet up and put it in your pocket. I think that's what Grunhard would enjoy the most. He's a little bit differ­'ent." 
Grunhard isn't going to com­plain about any good-natured teasing from his coach. Mter all, Holtz is the reason that the Chicago native is living out his dream of starting for the Fight­ing Irish. 
''Being from the south side of Chicago from an Irish fam­ily, I've always loved Notre Dame and Notre Dame foot­ball," said Grunhard. "While Gerry Faust was here, I wasn't recruited, so I was going to go to Minnesota, where Holtz was coaching, or to the University of South Carolina. 
"Not being recruited by Gerry Faust kind of left a bad taste in my mouth about Notre Dame," continued the 6-3, 279­pound junior. "When Holtz came to Notre Dame and asked me to come here, it was one of the best things to happen to me. I'm just trying to pay back what Notre Dame has given me by playing the best football of my life for the two years I have left." · 
If time on the practice field is any indication, Grunhard has more than paid back any dues he owes. As both the starting guard on the offensive line and the long snapper on the kicking and punting team, Grunhard literally is one of the first players on the field and one of the last off. But special teams is a tradition that goes back to high school for Grunhard. 


"'When I was in high school, I snapped the ball over the guy's head twice in one game," said Grunhard. "From that point, I said to myself that I never want to snap again. My high school coach said, 'You really have a talent for it. We have a lot of confidence in you.' 

"Then, the second or third practice my freshman year (in college), I snapped over a guy's head, and Coach Holtz said, 'If I see you do that again, you'll never snap again at Notre 
see VITAL, page 14 
~-...__­

------~­
The Observer I Suzanne Poch 

Zannette Bennett and Kathy Cunningham helped pace the Irish volleyball squad to a second-place finish in the Saluki Invitational last weekend. Molly Mahoney details the action at left. 
Irish rugby squad loses to Michigan 
While the Irish football team handled Michigan Saturday night in Notre Dame Stadium, the Rugby Club was not as fortunate against the Wolverines in the afternoon behind Stepan Center. 
Greg Guffey 
Club Corner 


The Wolverines handed the Irish squad losses at all three levels and, to make matters worse, all were shutouts. The Notre Dame "A" team lost 36-0 and the "B" and "C" groups both fell by identical 10-0 scores. 
The Irish did find some relief in the losses. The Wol­verines brought their club team, a team that had only two players still in college. The remainder of the team was composed of older, more experienced players. 
"Actually, we're not too disappointed," club president Jim Lammers said. "Their club side is one of the top 10 in the nation. It would be equivalent to amateurs playing professionals. We learned a lot." 
The Irish, now 0-1 for the season, travels to Western Illinois this weekend. The next home contest will be against Kalamazoo Saturday, Sept. 24. 
The Sailing Club turned in a fourth-place performance last weekend in the Notre Dame Intersectional. Michigan finished first followed by Georgetown in second and Florida State third. A total of 13 teams competed in the event. 
Pete Wall with crew Paige Cooper placed third in the "A" division, while Tom Sessions with crews Patti Losinske and Watts Hudgens took sixth in "B" division. 
The Irish will send squads to both Iowa and Kent State to compete in events this weekend. 
The Rowing Club will open its season Sept. 24 ·in the Head of the Ohio, one of four races during the fall season. 




