
--------------~------­
Stormy weather 
IACCENT: Getting the facts on alcohol 
A 90 percent chance of rain and colder today. High in the upper 30s with an 80 percent 
chance of rain tonight.

IVIEWPOINT: Roe vs. Wade revisited 



VOL. XXI, NO. 80 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Reagan's NO visit set for March 9 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Reagan will be the first pres­Senior Staff Reporter ident to visit Notre Dame twice while in office. The visit was 
President Ronald · Reagan annnounced by White House will visit Notre Dame March 9 Press Secretary Marlon to take part in the issuance Fitzwater at the Friday mor­ceremonies of a U.S. Postal 
ibriefing.

Service stamp honoring legen­dary football coach Knute Rockne, the White House an­nounced Friday. 
"It's always an honor to have the President visit our campus," University Presi­dent Edward Malloy said. 
The visit was "in the works for a while," Malloy said. 
"Mr. Reagan wanted to be here and there were some logistical problems to work out," he added. An advance team from the 
Reagan portrayed all-star White House will be assisted by halfback George Gipp, the University to organize Rockne's most famous player, Reagan's visit, Malloy said, in the 1940 Warner Brothers adding that Notre Dame Secur­film, "Knute Rockne--All ity will work with the Secret American." The late Pat Service to ensure Reagan's O'Brien played Rockne in the safety. movie that began Reagan's Other presidents who have career as an actor. visited Notre Dame during 
The inauguration of the their terms are Franklin D. stamp will be a midday event Roosevelt in 1935, Dwight D.
be 80 in April, maintains the Grotto once a week, 
at Joyce Athletic and Convoca­Eisenhower in 1960, Gerald
often with the help of students. 
tion Center, when the stamp Ford in 1975 and Jimmy Carter will join the Sports Series col­in 1977. lection which also includes Student Body President Pat
Meese probe under 'close tabs' 
Bobby Jones, Babe Zaharias, Cooke called the visit "great Associated Press "I see no reason on earth for by the independent counsel Babe Ruth, Roberto Clemente for the University."the president to take any action probing the matter that the at­and Jim Thorpe. Student government will sit 
WASHINGTON -President unless and until it's made to ap­torney general played "an im­Reagan gave the commence­down with the commission Reagan will keep close tabs on pear that Mr. Meese has done portant and sustained role" in ment address to Notre Dame planning the event to decide ac­the investigation into Attorney something wrong." the $1 billion Iraqi pipeline graduates on May 17, 1981 and tivities for the visit, Cook said. General Edwin Meese's role in Meese has been one of project, which never came to was awarded an honorary "We (student government) an Iraqi oil pipeline project, but Reagan's closest associates fruition. degree. The address was his will sit down and discuss what seeking Meese's resignation since his days as the governor A close friend of Meese, E. first appearance outside Wash­we would like to do for the now would be tantamount to of California. Meese's attor­Robert Wallach, had a finan­ington after the assassination visit," he said. "pitching people to the lions ney, James Rocap, has said cial interest in the Iraqi project attempt March 30, 1981. Cooke said he hopedwithout proof," a top White Meese had only a limited in­and he sent the attorney gen­O'Brien also received an Reagan's visit would promoteHouse official said Sunday. volvement with the project and eral a memo citing a plan to honorary degree at the com­interest in the Mock Conven-· 
"The president ... has said he has not broken the law. pay off a top Israeli official in mencment. tion sponsored by student gov­continues to have full confi­Baker's comments case return for a guarantee that Is-Groups opposing Reagan's ernment in April.dence in his attorney general,'' amid a report Sunday in The Central American and defense The drive to establish the White House Chief of Staff New York Times that White policies demonstrated during
see MEESE, page 6 
Howard Baker said. House officials have been told that weekend. see REAGAN, page 6 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1988 


Largest Iowa newspaper endorses Dole, Simon 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa -Iowa's largest-circulating daily news­paper on Sunday endorsed Re­publican Bob Dole and Demo­crat Paul Simon in the state's Feb. 8 presidential caucuses. 
The Des Moines Register, in departing from a tradition of not endorsing candidates before the caucuses, rejected Vice President George Bush for supporting the Iran-Contra deal and said Democrats would not have to apologize if any of their party's candidates won, except Gary Hart. 
The newspaper gave its ap­proval to the two senators from nearby Midwestern states in side-by-side editorials and ex­plained its decision to make the unusual endorsements in a sep­arate column by editor James Gannon. 
No other large Iowa daily so far has endorsed candidates in the precinct presidential selec­tion process, which provides the first voter test for six Re­publican and seven Demo­cratic candidates. 
The Register, which has readers across the state, where candidates have focused much of their early campaign, said that while it disagreed with Senate Republican leader Dole of Kansas on a number of is­sues, "it is usually possible to tell where he is coming from. And it is from a good place ­
see IOWA, page 6 
Jerusalem summer programwill continue as planned 
By BRADLEY GALKO News Staff 
Students participating in the Jerusalem Summer Study Program are not ex­pected to be in any great danger though the semester program in Jerusalem was cancelled ·this year, accor­ding to Father Patrick Gaf­fney, a coordinator for the program. 
The summer program, which runs from June 11 to Aug. 7, is the "product of a consortium of four Catholic universities," namely Notre Dame, Fordham, Geor­getown, and Villanova, said Gaffney. Any student at any of the four universities is el­ligible to participate he said. The program consists of six weeks of intensive courses in Arab and Islamic Studies and two week-long trips which interrupt the normal curriculum. Three courses, "Intensive Conversational Arabic," "Modern Middle East History," and "Biblical Archaeology," will be taught for a possible 12 credit hours. 
Students will study and live at the Tantur Ecumeni­cal Institute just outside the city of Jerusalem in its Jor danian, Israeli-occupied sector. The institute .is run by the University of Notre Dame and was originally constructed in the mid-1960s under the auspices of Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
The Jerusalem Summer Study Program began last year but no Notre Dame stu­dents went, said Gaffney. "This year we hope to get a good number (of students)," he said. In addition to studies, students will be host to a wide range of extracur­ricular activities. "Tantur is so close to Jerusalem," said Gaffney, "(that) anything they want to do in Jerusalem" is open to stu­
see SUMMER, page 6 

Monday, February 1 , 1988 

page 2 The Observer 
.IDIPTED II 8111111 fiELD 
In Brief 
Princess Diana and Prince Charles attended a surf lifesaving carnival north of Sydney. After presenting an award named in her honor to the winning surf relay team, Princess Diana smilingly agreed to photographers' re­quests that she stand between the six athletic young men, who wore only brief swimsuits, caps and smiles. "I've been waiting all day for this," she told James Newman, 25, a member of the winning freshwater surf lifesaving club team. -The Associated Press 
Elaine Valdiserri, wife of Notre Dame sports 
information director Roger Valdiserri, died Sunday after­
noon at home after a lengthy illness. She was 55. A funeral 
Mass will be at 10:30 a.m. Tuesday at Sacred Heart 
Church. There will be no visitation. The Valdiserris were 
married in 1954 and had five children -all Notre Dame 
graduates. Valdiserri, also an associate athletic director 
at Notre Dame, has been sports information director at 
Notre Dame since 1966. -The Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Summer Service Project Applications for 1988 are due today at the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, call 239-5293. -The Observer 
Residence hall contracts for the 1988-89 academic year must be signed and returned to the Office of .s~udent Residences by 5 p.m. Tuesday. Any student now hvmg on campus must return the contract. Students planning on moving off-campus next year should mark their card "OC" and return it. -The Observer 
AIESEC, the international business club, will hold an informational meeting tonight at 7 in 220 Hayes-Healy Center. Officer elections will be held at this time. -The Observer 
ModelUnitedNationswillbehavingaveryimportant organizational meeting Tuesday at 6:30p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland. The meeting will only last thirty minutes and at least one member per delegation should expect to at­tend. -The Observer 
Eating Awareness Training second session w~ll be held tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 in Room 300 of the Um­versity Counseling Center. This series is ~eared toward individuals who feel they may have an eatmg problem or are worried about about someone who may. -The Observer 
Margaret Theisen, a representative of VESS, a post-graduate volunteer program, will be in the library concourse today from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and at the Center for Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. to answer questions about VESS. -The Observer 
Right to Life dorm reps must attend a meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. The meeting will focus on the Care Center phone-a-thon and important information will be handed out. -The Ob­server 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education invites the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to its dedication reception at 4:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 5 in Room 210 of LaFortune Student Center. For information, · contact David Dannison at 239-7970.-The Observer 
Three conceptual works by Michael Hofman will be featured in the basement kiln area of Riley Hall of Art tonight. Two video-taped works will be featured at ~ p.m. and a perfomance piece will be held at 8:30 p.m. -The Observer 
Students without majors are invited to a Career Decision-Making Workshop at the University Counseling Center from 6:30 to 8 p.m. on Feb. 15,16,17,18,22,23,24,and 
25. For more information, call Bart, Julie, or Rita at 239­7336. -The Observer 

Design Editor ......... Jane Anne Riedford Business Layout..... .. ....... Heidi Traxler Design Assistant . . ... Alison Cocks Accent Copy Editor ...... Kathy Scarbeck Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Micheal Buc Accent Layout ............ Katy Kronenberg ..........................................Daniel Cahill Typists .............................. Wendy Burek 
News Editor .... ................... Cathy Stacy ........................................ Lynsey Strand Copy Editor ............ Liz ·Panzica Sports Copy Editor .............. Pete Gegen N D Day Editors .................... Sue Moser Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... John Blasi ............................................... David Lee Business Editor ................. Steve Claeys 
Photographer ................ ... Susan Coene 
ne 01111ner (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina cum IIJid vacation periods. ne Obaner is published ~Y the students of the University of Notre Dame IIJid Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscripttons may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writina ne Obaner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, Judiana 46,6. 
ne Obaner is a member of ne Allodaled rr-. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
The Holy Land is not always holy 
Where are all the protest marches? The charity rock concerts? The "moments of silence" on the steps of the Administration Building? 
Although I'm sure this doesn't come as a shock, Israeli soldiers eased from the picture about two score dissidents last month. 
Many are probably thinking, "Why does this guy think this topic deserves an inside column? Things of this sort happen all the time." Such observations, however, say something by them­selves. 
In the midst of continual reports of Israeli soldiers machine-gunning civilians, bulldozing houses to make way for Jewish settlers, and resorting to torture, nobody seems to care at all, including our self-proclaimed "idealists." 
No, I don't have an Arab girlfriend, and no, I haven't bought the Palestinian complaint 
. hook, line and sinker. Still, Domers aren't the only ones who are supposed to be a family, but rather the whole human race (Texas A&M being excluded, of course). Yet apparently a good Palestinian is a dead one, as far as we're concerned. 
Consider, for instance, how often the Western press labels Palestinian dissidents who just sabotaged an Israeli military installation as "terrorists" or "guerillas," while describing rebels in South Africa, who may have just raped, mutilated, or burned alive one of their opponents, as "fighting for social justice" or practicing "civil disobedience." 
I cited our contrasting attitude to the insur­gents in South Africa intentionally. Although I don't want to oversell yet another "cause," the number of similarities between Israel and South Africa are amazing. 
Political oppression? In the Israeli occupied territories, no political meetings or demonstra­tions are allowed, no anti-government newspapers or printed matter is permitted, and all political parties are banned. Also, there are mass evictions, demolitions of houses to make way for Israeli settlers, curfews and travel re­strictions. 
Human rights violations? Whereas South Africa has its Sharpeville massacre, Israel has its Qafir Kassem and Qibya. Furthermore, one need only consult the findings of Amnesty In­ternational, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Swiss League of Human Rights or the U.S. State Department to find ample evidence of torture. 
Forms of torture reportedly range from the application of traction to electric shocks. I could go on, but this is a Catholic university. In ad­dition, most of the above agepcies C<?nclude that such instances, far from being exceptions to the rule committeu uy overzealOus officers, result from a conscious, methodical policy. 
Apartheid? One half million Arabs crowd the narrow Gaza Strip, supplying Israel with a cheap commuting labor force for the ac­complishment of various construction and ser-
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 

Wish your friends a happy 
birthday with Observer jftAt advertising. )tnt ~ Call 239-6900 C 
Chris Julka 
Assistant News Editor 
vice tasks. The 750,000 Arabs in the West Bank are in much the same situation, receiving much lower wages and fewer benefits than their Is­raeli counterparts. None of the Arabs in these areas are allowed to enter Israeli settlements in these areas. 
Those Arabs not living in the occupied zones, live in ghettoes in the Galilee and Haifa districts or the "Little Triangle." In addition, educa­tional facilities are segregated and medical facilities in the occupied territories are inade­quate. 
One could justify all this on grounds it is nec­essary for Israel's security, being surrounded as it is by a sea of Gentile nations. Then again South Africa could do the same for its own policies, being surrounded as it is by a sea of Black nations. 
Nevertheless, even this justification becomes debatable. Judging from comments made by Israeli leaders, one wonders if the occupied ter­ritories stand as a buffer zone or as a new Israeli Lebensraum. As Golda Meir put it: "Do you really think that we are investing millions here in order to leave one day?" 
Now assuredly, it is easy to sympathize with the Israelis' situation. Nevertheless, if the Is­raelis have a claim to Palestine, so do the Dutch descendents to much of South Africa, since South Africa's indigenous Hottentots have long since disappeared--much like Palestine's original Canaanites--the land being invaded by the Dutch and the Bantus simultaneously. 
Yet whereas we won't even consider corpor­ate investment in South Africa, we continue to give Israel over $3 billion each year, including military aid. 
Why the discrepancy? 
You tell me why. 


~THE GtTIIRIE THEATER 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 8P.M. O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM TICKETS: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 AVAILABtl AT THE BOX OFFIU TO CHARGE BY PHONE: 284-4626 
VISA, MASTERCARD ACCEPTED 
Deadline for applications is Wednesday, February 3. For further Information contact Chris Murphy 
at The Observer (239-5303) 

Monday, February 1 , 1988 
The Observer page 3 

The Observer I Susan Coene A statue near the Grotto remembers Notre Dame graduate Dr. Thomas Dooley who was a great example of skill, motivation and compassion. An award is annually bestowed on a graduate in his name. Story at right. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Accounts Receivable Clerk 
For further information contact John Oxrider 
TRYOUTS~ 

FOR A BROADWAY REVUE When? Wed., Feb. 3 & Thurs., Feb. 4 7:30pm Where? Room 118 O'Shaughnessy 
*We need singets & musicians to perform in the first N.D. Broadway Revue. 
*Singers should bring one prepared piece (preferably a Broadway number) to tryouts. 
*Singers should try to provide their own accompaniment. 
For more information, call Tom Howley 283-1368 
Sponsored by SUB 
Dooley award given to grad for 'outstanding service' 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
News Staff 
Notre Dame graduate Ceyl Prinster was awarded the 1988 Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award in a ceremony at the Morris Inn Friday night. 
Established in 1983, the Dooley Award is given an­nually by the Notre Dame Alumni Association to the alumnus or alumna who has most clearly "demonstrated outstanding service to fellow men," according to the award criter.ia. 
Prinster's involvement in community service began during her undergraduate years at Notre Dame. She graduated in 1976 and was a member of the University's first full four-year class of wo­men. Prinster was a co-founder of the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. 
After graduation, Prinster continued to be active in social service through her involve­ment in the Notre Dame Club of Denver, despite being the victim of systemic lupus eryt­hematosis, a chronic hyperac­tivity of the immune system for which there is no known cure. 
Emphasizing the develop­ment of values and community service, Prinster instituted the Denver Club's Summer Ser­vice Project with the Center for Social Concerns. This six year-old program provides a sum­mer internship in community service for a local Notre Dame student in return for approxi­mately $1,200 in scholarship funds. The management and placement of participating stu­dents have been Prinster's duties and she has been almost solely responsible for the Proj­ect's fund-raising activities. 
In addition to her chairman-
Pilot: Nicaraguans fee I 'at war' 
Associated Press the Reagan administration's 'I'm guilty of everything; I'm plan to aid the Contra rebels. your enemy.' " 
CARLINVILLE, Ill. -Pilot "I told them I was a lifelong Denby said he believes hts James Denby, reunited with his Republican, and that was the release was intended by the family Sunday after seven wrong thing to tell them," said Nicaraguan government to in­weeks in a Nicaraguan prison, Denby, who denied charges fluence this week's U.S. house said his captors repeatedly that he helped the Contra vote on aid to the Contras urged him to speak out against rebels. "That was like saying, trying to topple the leftist San­
'Jijiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiil dinista regime.
II He said he was asked repeatedly over the last two weeks to speak publicly against Contra aid, but declined. 
"In Nicaragua, they feel they're at war, genuine life­threatening war, with Reagan and the Republicans in the United States," he said. "They honestly believe that all Republicans are against them and all Democrats are for them." 

r-.ApPiiCations-·ror-stuD'ERT-uNiON-BOARD----, 
t COMMISSIONER POSITIONS for 1988-89 school I 
t year I 
t are available in the Secretary's office, 2nd floor, t t LaFortune. tt Applications are due TODAY by 4:00 p.m. and are • for the following positions: ' 
t BOARD MANAGER MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSIONI':R ' A CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSIONER IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSIONER 
t 

t 
t SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSIONER PUBLICITY COMMISSIONER t MOVIE COMMISSIONER CONTROLLER ' CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSIONER BUSINESS AUDITOR ,. SERVICES COMMISSIONER 
t

tStop by the SUB office or call 239-7757 for more informationf There is a SUBstitution for boredom on this campus. This Is your chancef to get Involved! 
t 
' 

ship of the SSP, Prinster has natural expression of faith," also organized the Urban she said. "A sense of the Plunge project in Denver. Cur­transcendent is part of that rently she teaches adult baptis­search for God and service is mal preparation classes in the a kind of experience of some­Denver area. Prior to settling thing beyond." in Denver with her husband Prinster stressed the impor­and two young children, tance of becoming involved Prinster, who is expecting a with social service both during third child shortly, taught high one's undergraduate years and school religion classes in Ten­after leaving Notre Dame or St. nessee and Florida. Mary's. 
"Notre Dame should repre­sent more than just athletics and academics. Notre Dame must carry on the emphasis on service to others via projects such as the Summer Service Projects. Doing what you can to keep up the tradition of the Center for Social Concerns is important," she said. 
The Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award is named after the 

.._, 
former Notre Dame pre-med

Cecilia J. Prlnster 
student who distinguished him-

Prinster describes service as self through dedicated service "an attitude of heart that com-to the evacuees of North and pels you, keeps you going. It is South Vietnam after the Sout­a gift, not something that you heastern Asian nation was 
conjure up. Service is an on-divided upon the end of French going process of conversion, of rule there in the 1940's. Dooley turning to God. saw as his mission changing 
"I've thought a lot about the the negative image the United motivation for service, " said States conveyed in that region Prinster. "It involves being of the world. He sought to sensitized to a situation and portray the image of a having the service be an ex-humanitarian, rather than an pression of 'overflowing' and imperialistic and belligerent, wanting to give something United States. back. It is a self-satisfying While volunteering in post-feeling," she said. World War II Vietnam, Dooley 
"There are other motives I and his assistants treated some now admit--resume fillers, get-80,000 evacuees in eleven ting results in terms of the months at his primitive clinic number of people helped and at Haiphong. He also led a meals served," said Prinster. private medical group in Laos, "But the motive that really a country which had had but keeps you going is the feeling one doctor before Dooley and that you are doing something his group arrived. for the least of your brothers. In 1959, Dooley, at age 32, It is a sense of altruism, of was diagnosed as having can­sharing." cer. He did not slow down, 
"Service isn't an attempt to however, and continued hisser-earn a place in heaven. It is a vice until his death in 1961. 

....-------------~~-----~----~------------~--­
Monday, February 1, 1988 


Tuesday, February 2 
6:00 P.M. Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune 

L______________ ---' 

Monday, February 1, 1988 
'Steepest' price hikes protested by thousands 
Associated Press ranged from 4U percent to 200 
percent for food, fuel, alcohol, 
WARSAW, Poland -cigarettes, transportation and Thousands of Solidarity sup-other services. porters marched through After a meeting at Gdansk's Gdansk Sunday, chanting "No St. Brygida's Church, Walesa more price hikes!" and "Strike and other members of the out­tomorrow!" Lech Walesa and Jawed labor federation's Na­other former union leaders tional Executive Commission demanded the government issued a communique saying withdraw the increases. the price-hike policy "blocks 
In Warsaw, club-wielding necessary economic reforms riot police briefly scuffled with . . . and increases social ten-demonstrators as police sions." blocked an estimated 1,500 "The inevitability of collapse Solidarity supporters from is obvious," said the statement, marching after an evening read over the telephone by Mass at a Roman Catholic Solidarity national spokesman church. Some protesters Janusz Onyszkiewi'Cz. "We shouted slogans against the demand the withdrawal of the price hikes and pelted police price rises whose conse­with snowballs. quences are . . . downright 
The protests came a day tragic for some." after the government an-The statement did not call for nounced the steepest price in-specific protest actions in creases since martial law days response to the price hikes, six years ago. The boosts which begin Monday. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt stepped up his assault on front-running Democratic presiden­tial rivals on Sunday, as Jesse Jackson supporters passed the plate in churches nationwide. 
Meanwhile, Republican Bob Dole and Democrat Paul Simon picked up the endorsement of Iowa's largest-circulating daily newspaper, the Des Moines Register. 
The newspaper's endorse­ments were a departure from a tradition of not formally sup­porting candidates prior to the 
~~~~~~~~· ...., ...~~~~~~
llli ....~...= 

SPRING BREAK SIZZLES AT DAYTONA BEACH. Concerts, games. parties. exhibitions. freebies, golf, tennis. jai alai, greyhound racing, great nightlife and the best beaches in Florida. It all happens In the Daytona Beach resort area. the Spring Break Capital of the Universe! 
Pack your car. hop on a tour bus or catch a flight on Delta, Eastern, American, Continental or Piedmont. A travel agent can make all the arrangements at no added charge. So, Cll 1100-854-1234 lor ll'lln lnlormlllon. 
NOTRE DAME !ST. MARY'S BALLROOM DANCE CLOB 
EVERYONE come swing with us again, NO PARTNER OR EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 
TONIGHT 
INTERMEDIATE 7:00PM 8:00PM 
STEPAN CENTER DOOR PRIZES 
~<c'?'­~~ 

The Observer 
., 
The Observer I Susan Coene

Super distraction 
Students of Farley and Alumni Halls take time out fans were rejoicing after the 42-1 0 blow out in their from their studies to watch Super Bowl XXII. Redskin favor. 
Babbitt: Dukakis' policies fail 
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR MEDICAL STUDENTS. 
Medical school costs are nsing every day. They're climbing foster than many students can handle without the right kind of financtal help. If you're a medical student, the Air Force may have the best answer for you. We offer on excellent scholarship program that con ease the financial strain of medical or osteopathy school and allow you to concentrate on your studies. Participation ts based on competitive selection. Let the Air Force make an mvestment in your professional future. For more information. call 
USAF Health Professions 
Capt James Richey 
317-848-5830 
Collect 
ATTENTION JUNIORS: DINNER AND BRUNCH TABLE REGISTRATION 
WHERE: WEST POINT ROOM 1st floor LaFortune Feb. 1, 7-10
WHEN: 
Feb. 2, 9-11 Feb. 3. 7-10 
There will be 9 people per table and you DO NOT 
have to sit with the same group twice. Also clustering 
of tables together in general area is possible. 
Student ID is required and bring along your ZIP CODE 
from your home address 
You must be paid in order to be seated!! 
state's precinct caucuses, which are set for Feb. 8. 
Babbitt, campaigning in Iowa, labeled Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis' major proposals "a fraud" and said, "he has ducked and run from every tough issue." 
"That's not just a failure of policy," said Babbitt in remarks prepared for delivery at a Waterloo rally. "It's a fail­ure of candor, a failure of courage, and a political failure of the worst kind." 
A day earlier, Babbitt at­tacked Simon's description of himself as a "real Democrat." Babbitt said he plans an attack 
on Rep. Richard Gephardt 
during a college speech on 
Monday. 
Dukakis aides quickly dis­
missed the Babbitt assault as 
a desperation move. 
"It's his all-purpose charge 
against every candidate," said 
spokeswoman Lorraine Voles. 
The Dukakis camp, mean­while, was on the defensive over an incident involving a staffer -who has now left the Dukakis campaign -trying to "infiltrate" a Simon office. 
Both campaigns said Bill Taylor, who was a national campaign staffer for Dukakis, went to a Simon campaign of­fice in Cedar Rapids last week and volunteered to help with a phone-bank operation. 
"It was a dumb, stupid thing to do," said Dukakis spokes­woman Voles, saying that Taylor acted "completely on his own." 
Simon aides, demanding as­surances that it wouldn't hap­pen again, called the action a "cheap, stupid stunt." 
The Dukakis campaign also said Sunday that most of the governor's Iowa staffers have taken pay cuts of up to 50 per­cent in an effort to stay within campaign spending limits for the state, set down by the Federal Election Commission. They said the cuts were not due to a shortage of money. 
In endorsing Simon, the Des Moines Register pointed to his record as ''a man who has decent instincts and sticks by them." 




Monday, February 1, 1988 

page 6 The Observer 
is in isolated hot spots of which said that there were no prob­Tantur is not included. lems last year with dicipline or
Security Beat Summer 
continued from page 1 "The only real danger," he police and that students are 
Applications are available at the LaFortune Student Govemment offices and the 
Thursday, January 28 
3 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of $50 in cash from his wallet in his unlocked room some­time between 2 and 6:30p.m. 
4:15p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket from the bleachers of the Joyce ACC during the ND vs. Butler basketball game on Wednesday. His loss is valued at $80. 
5 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh Hall reported the theft of his dock­siders from Gym £2 of the JACC on Wednesday. His loss is estimated at $56. 
7:15p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket and wal­let from outside Gym £1 in the JACC between 4 and 5 p.m. His loss is es­timated at $95. 
7:20 p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall reported the theft of his weight belt from Gym £2 of the JACC around 11 p.m. on Tuesday. 
8:30 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation for doing 54 mph in a 30 mph zone on Edison Road. 
Friday, January 29 
4:27 a.m. A Security Officer dis­covered that a student car in the D6 lot had one of its windows broken and contacted the owner. It is un­known if anything was removed from the car. 
6 a.m. A car parked in the D2 lot belonging to a Cavanaugh resident had its driver's side window shat­tered. It is unknown if anything was taken. 
10:30 p.m. A teenage South Bend resident was assaulted by a high school student at Gate 3 of the JACC. He suffered only minor injuries. 
12:20 p.m. A Notre Dame em­ployee reported that someone had broken into the janitor's room in the basement of Keenan Hall. This oc­curred between 3:30p.m. Thursday and 7 a.m. Friday. Nothing was taken. 
Saturday, January 30 
12:42 a.m. A Badin Hall resident reported the loss of a gold ring some­where on campus. 
2:55p.m. A pizza delivery car was vandalized when unknown persons threw a large treebranch in front of his moving car and pelted it with rocks and sticks. Damage estimate is unknown. 
9:25p.m. A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported the theft of his bookbag from his room. His loss is estimated at $15. 
Sunday, January 31 
5 a.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported that two of the panels on his door had been knocked out. Damage estimate is unknown. 
Meese 
continued from page 1 
rael would not bomb the pipeline, sources close to the in­vestigation have confirmed. The sources spoke on condition of not being identified. 
The 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act generally forbids companies and individuals from making payments to foreign government officials to secure help in obtaining or re­taining business. Under that act, the attorney general is re­sponsible for prosecuting American citizens or compan­ies that try to bribe foreign officials. 
Baker, appearing on CBS­TV's "Face the Nation" and in comments to reporters later, refused to comment on the details of the investigation, ex­cept to say that independent counsel James McKay had briefed him and White House counsel A.B. Culvahouse on the matter and that he had in­formed Reagan. 
The chief of staff also refused careful not to jeopardize them­selves by avoiding dangerous activities. 
Despite the cancellation of Notre Dame's semester pro­gram, Gaffney said, "They (the organizers of the consor­tium) plan to carry on next summer." Anyone interested in the program should contact either Gaffney or the Foreign Studies Office. 
to say whether Reagan had had any knowledge of the pipeline plan, which was abandoned in early 1986. 
A spokesman for McKay, Jack Barrett, said the indepen­dent counsel's officP would have no comment on the reports of the investigation into Meese's activities. 
Baker said McKay had of­fered the briefing "as a matter of courtesy to give me, to give the president, some advance warning of the nature of his in­quiry." 

Reagan 
continued fror12 page 1 
Rockne stamp was lead by Mi­chael Feld, a 1956 Notre Dame graduate. Feld wrote more than 350 letters to alumni and other groups asking them to write letters to the U.S. Postal Service in support of the stamp. 
Those supporting the stamp included former DePaul bas­ketball coach and Notre Dame graduate Ray Meyer, former Speaker of the House Tip 
Applications are now available for the following positions: 
O'Neil and Senator Jesse Helms. 
Rockne, who was born March 4, 1888, in Voss, Norway, was Notre Dame head football co­ach from 1918 to 1930. His lifetime record of 105-12-5, a winning percentage of .881, has never been equaled by any col­lege or professional coach. Rockne produced 20 first-team All-Americans, including the famed "Four Horsemen," and six national championship teams during his tenure. 

Iowa 
continued from page 1 
traditional Midwestern Republicanism.'' 
The paper noted Dole has teamed up with liberal Democrats to back civil rights and food stamp programs in Congress, characterizing his performance as one of "prag­matism, shrewd politics and compassion all at once." 
It also said it would be a relief 
to have a president who could work with Congress, rather than against it, especially be­cause of the need for coopera­tion to cut the deficit. 

"The clincher is that Dole seems to sense what the nation needs, after years of obsession with building military strength," it said. "Dole em­phasizes turning to domestic concerns such as education, child care, health and commu­nity service.'' 
The Register said it believes Simon, from neighboring Illi­nois, is the best Democratic candidate, in part because of a long and unwavering record that shows "a man who has decent instincts and sticks by them." 
"He offers the correct diag­nosis: the United States has diverted too much of its re­sources into the military rivalry with the Soviet Union while Japan and Western Europe, less burdened by mil­itary expenditures, forge ahead in the economic rivalry," the newspaper said. 
I• 

dents. Visiting sites and touring the city, engaging in private studies, practicing their Arabic with locals, and socializing with Arab peers are popular activities for the stu­dents, according to Gaffney. 
Of the recent violence in the Middle East, Gaffney said, "I'd say there is danger, but it's not dangerous for ordinary people." Danger, he explained, added, "would be if a student went to these (violence­stricken) places, saw trouble, and hung around," explaining that if someone went looking for trouble he could find it. However, he saw that possibil­ity as highly unlikely for any of the students. 
"There will be continuing eruptions (this summer), but things are already cooling down there," he said. Gaffney 
• CAMPAIGN MANAGERS Haggar College Center Information Desk. 
• STATE CHAIRMAN 
Applications are due 
• CONVENTION DELEGATES 
Friday, February 5 
We need approximately 1000 delegates! 


Viewpoint
Monday, February 1 , 1988 page 7 
Abortion issue needs rethinking 
January 22, 1988 marked the fifteenth anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision in the case of Roe vs. Wade which legalized abortion in the United States. For the fifteen years that have followed the landmark ruling, heated arguments have occurred between right-to-life groups and pro-choice adv­ocates. Two disturbing facts, among others, still persist: the Supreme Court's ruling has legalized the killing of innocent human beings every year and so many Americans simply ignore this catastrophe. 
Rob Hahn 
guest column 
Th~ statistics surrounding abortion 
speaK for themselves. As Charles Rice, 
a professor of law at the University of 
Notre Dame noted in his book "50 Ques­
tions on Abortion, Euthanasia and 
Related Issues," since 1973, the death 
toll from abortions is greater than 20 
million; legalized abortion kills more 
than 1.5 million American babies every 
year; and in 18 metropolitan areas in 
the United States, abortions outnumber 
live births. 
The United States, along with other 
countries where abortion is legal, is 
dealing with an atrocity comparable to 
the Nazi Holocaust. Still, those in in­
fluential positions of government fail to 
do anything worthy of causing change. 
President Reagan has produced some 
sweet-sounding abortion-related rhet­
oric lately, but to be respectfully frank, 
"Where's the beef?" 
We Americans are also faced with those politicians who may be personally opposed to abortion but do nothing be­cause a pro-life stance contradicts their political philosophies. Take for exam­ple, Sen. Edward Kennedy and Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York, who are prominent Catholic Democrats. To retain their incumbencies and remain consistent with their political ideologies, these two individuals have taken a stance of silence andt>r pro­choice. Worse yet, these two are only examples of those who have power to actually influence some change and do nothing. There are many others like Kennedy and Cuomo who could take ac­tion and let the general American public know about abortion. 
Another problem with the abortion issue is that numerous Americans simply do not know the immense prob­lems surrounding this tragedy. On Jan­uary 22, 1988, major media publications 
Doonesbury 
PIP '/0(}SE& M:: M-M·MOP UP THE fl()(R a/rTHIJJ5H, 
Y·PeRSON? I /UAS TIE 7DAST OfPESMOIN&5! 
•• ---=---"' :oW> 
in this country failed to even mention 
that it was the fifteenth anniversary of 
the ruling. The New York Times said 
nothing; the Chicago Tribune said noth­
ing; and even this publication failed to 
print anything, with the exception of 
the "Quote of the Day,"· which might 
have stimulated any opinion-forming 
thought on the abortion issue. The 
media, in one of the greatest positions 
of influence in this country, did nothing 
which might make the public aware of 
this issue. Instead of informing the 
public about abortion by placing a story 
about the Roe vs. Wade anniversary on 
the front page, the Chicago Tribune re­
ported on the front page that President 
Reagan wants money appropriated for 
more aid to the Contras. If Reagan 
worked as hard to overturn the Su­
preme Court's ruling on abortion as he 
does to gain more aid for the Contras, 
the decision very well may have been 
repealed by now. 

Perhaps one of the only philosophies 
of former Supreme Court nominee 
Judge Robert Bork with which this 
reporter concurs is his strong stance to 
work to overturn the Roe vs. Wade deci­
sion. One must at least admire Bork's 
integrity to face the abortion issue 
head-on during the intense questioning 
that surrounded his nomination. It is 
too bad his other viewpoints did not 
make his nomination more plausible, 
because America needs more people 
with the pro-life view in places of 
power. 

Still, it is alarming that so many Americans are not familiar with the Roe vs. Wade decision. Some fellow stu­dents questioned did not even know whether or not abortion is legal in the United States or other ramifications of Roe vs. Wade. People are not going to take action and work to put pressure to overturn the abortion decision, if they do not even know the basic facts about the issue. This ignorance persists as the killings of the innocent continue. 
The New York Times News Service recently reported that a new form of abortion is taking place in this country. Certain doctors have now begun offer­ing selective abortions to women who are either pregnant with more fetuses than they desire or more than they can safely carry. This practice of selective abortion has resulted in a pick-and­choose method, whereby, at times, a woman carrying more than one fetus will abort some and allow the remain­ing to proceed to birth. Using ultrasound techniques, doctors can reduce the number of fetuses carried 
1/NP816 AL HA/6 JSSOlJE6I'ERI(Tl; HE Jl/5TFlE/AJ OlfT RJR A TINSE:i..7DIJN FF·FUNO-RA/5ER...' 
f 

by a pregnant woman. A Philadelphia woman, after a sonogram performed early in her pregnancy, gave birth to twins after carrying six fetuses. In response to a different case of the same nature, Dr. Lawrence Platt of the Uni­versity of Southern California Medial Center in Los Angeles remarked, "It was a moral, ethical, and religious di­lemma." Where regular abortioys are horrible, this is even worse. How low has the medical profession sunk this time? 
Instead of making progress towards ridding America of legal abortion, those in the medical profession are devising different ways to perform the mass killings while, at the same time, politicians in the position to take action and create change, on the whole, are failing to sufficiently voice their pro-life views, much less take any action. As this process continues, the number of innocent humans who are victims of abortion continues to rise. The time is long overdue to admit our mistakes and change the Roe vs. Wade decision. 
Rob Hahn is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

P.O. Box Q 
Right to censor protected by law 
Dear Editor: 
Mr. Mark McLaughlin's Jan. 15 arti­cle about censorship was prompt and focused, and it certainly proved the dif­ficulty in arriving at correct values. Even the Supreme Court disagreed about the Hazelwood, Missouri, High School newspaper case, to my amaze­ment. I thought the result was right, but I thought the Court did a bad job. 
Mr. McLaughlin asks whether any newspaper, school-sponsored or not, should be limited to publishing only the correct values, and who is to decide what those values are? Well, every­thing is limited to the correct value lest it be a lie, if that is not an over­simplified answer. The U.S. Constitu­tion leaves it to the people to decide what those correct values are. 
Just as long as we do not allow lies in the name of Free Press (as if Free Press is a higher good). Free Press is not a value. It is an accommodation. It regulates the government, not society. When Free Press becomes a principle to anyone who is in a position to do so, and he may exercise that responsibility according to his own rights, without any compunction whatsoever, and with the same Constitutional protection. The government is not his mentor. 
Neither is the newspaper fraternity. Freedom of the Press is a faculty that reposes in the people, not in the publish­ing industry (the Constitution does not protect the publishing industry). The press and the public are not two differ­ent things. Note that if a newspaper reporter may protect his sources, then so may I. 
The Constitution does not care whe­ther we have newspapers, and the judge errs who for some sentimental reason advances the idea that we shall have newspapers (as the Supreme Court recently resolved a complaint in favor of a newspaper just because it was "in the public interest" to do so). The Constitution certainly does not comtemplate a newspaper as someth­ing inevitably good and never evil. 
John W. Snyder 
Creve Coeur, Missouri 
January 28, 1988 

to live by' it is a sentimentality. It is ·o=-v_e_r-~3~0-::o~-=-le_tte_r_s----,t:-o--t=-h-e-. 
also a cop-out sometimes for people who don't want to think. In my opinion, the only question
before the Supreme Court in the Hazel-wood High School case had to be whe­ther the principal had the license to do 
what he did. The Court said that he did. Everything else is pollution, including the admonition by the Court that a prin­
cipal must, nevertheless, show good reason. He doesn't have to do any such thing, not to the Court. 
The license to censor or edit belongs 
Garry Trudeau 
editor and 200 columns d I t ea . 
appeare as Y r In Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people 
WhO feel their OpinionS dO make a difference. Write to 
P.0. Box Q, Viewpoint De­"' rt t N t 0 IN 
..,a men ' 0 re arne, • 
Quote of the Day 
"Our earth Is but a small star In a great universe. Yet of It we can make, If we choose, a planet unvexed by war, un­troubled by hunger or fear, un­divided by senseless distinc­tions of race, color, or theory." 
Stephen VIncent Benet 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as possible Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief.... .. ... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrlder Managing Editor.. .. ... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor . .................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clarlt News Editor... . ............... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... . ..... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Martt Mclaughlin Sports Editor....... . . . ........ Denms Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor... . .... Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schlndele Saint Mary"s Editor . . . . . . .. .. ... .. . Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor... . ........ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1968 

Accent 
Monday, February 1, 1988 

page 8 
Alcohol: 

TAMRYN ETTEN accent writer 
This is the first in a series ofar­ticles on alcohol education at Notre Dame. 
"Dennis" had 21 shots on his 21st birthday and never woke up the next day. 
"Dennis" was a student at a university like Notre Dame. He didn't know that alcohol could be lethal; neither did his friends. Now they do. 
"Most people don't know what their blood alcohol level is," said Dave Dannison, direc­tor of Notre Dame's Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, which will be having a dedica­tion ceremony in the LaFortune Student Center later this week. The office will help educate students about alcohol and its effects. 
One of the office's educa­tional functions is to teach people how to ascertain their blood alcohol content (BAC), the determining factor of life and death. A person who weighs I 00 pounds could reach the lethal limit if he imbibes 10 drinks in an hour. For a 150 pound person, that limit is around 15; a 200 pound person could reach that limit at 20. 
Knowing this might be 
handy, but as Dannison points 
out, "After three drinks, most 
people stop counting. They 
stop caring." 
At a certain level of BAC. the "buzz" of alcohol takes over without any of the negative effects of impaired ability to respond to stimuli, loss of judgement a drop in body temperature, and unconscious­ness. 
Get the facts 
"If a person can maintain a .05-.08 BAC level throughout the night, he would have a much better time and reduce the chance of having a hang­over the next day," said Barb Naser, executive director of the South Bend Alcholism Council. 
"Most students are binge drinkers and only drink on weekends," she added. "What they don't realize is that depending upon their drinking, their behavior and performance can be affected through the following Wednesday." 
Although alcohol education can instruct people on how to get the best "buzz" and keep alcohol from affecting their daily performance, it also in­forms people of the risks in­volved in both the use and abuse of alcohol. 
"Alcohol is the number two killer in America," said Naser, "followed by cancer and preceding heart disease." 
The facts are startling. "Den­
nis' " story, the one often used 
in alcohol lore, was unfortunate 
because his death was directly 
linked to intake of alcohol on 
one given occasion. Alcohol can be lethal in many other more subtle ways . 
"Many of the illnesses that people have are linked to abuse of alcohol," Naser said, "whether it's heart disease, cancer, stomach ailments intes­tinal problems, or high blood pressure." These diseases can eventually lead to death. 
Cirrhosis of the liver, the dis­ease most commonly linked to abuse of alcohol, kills 14,000 Americans a year. But alcohol abuse can promote the growth of other diseases by weakening the body's immune system, deteriorating the heart muscle, altering brain cells, triggering bleeding in the stomach and intestines, and changing hormone systems (which can lead to to im­potence in men and infertility in women). 
There are many other forms of "accidental" deaths linked to alcohol abuse. In 1986, drunk drivers caused roughly 23,000 highway deaths, and alcohol was implicated in roughly 3,000 drowning deaths and 9,000 suicides. 
In fact, alcohol-related high-
The Observei:!Brian Mast Education about alcohol is one service provided by the university's Office of Drug and Alcohol Education. 
way deaths are the number one  "Alcohol is a drug," said  
killer of 15-24 year-olds. In  Dannison, "one which is highly  
Indiana, 44 percent of the  addictive." In the alcohol world  
drunk drivers are 16-24 years  it is called called the 'gateway  
old, yet they only represent 20  drug· because it is so readily  
percent of the drivers, and less  accessible.  
than 20 percent of the miles  Alcohol educators find them- 
being driven.  selves fighting the negative  
"Most people who think they  associations of the word "al­ 
know their limit are not drink­ coholic." Many people believe  
ing to the limit of responsible  alcoholics are middle aged to  
driving," said Dave Dannison.  elderly people who have lost  
"They usually drink to the limit  everything due to their drink- 
that would leave them socially  ing. That image is not entirely  
embarrassed. The limits are  accurate.  
quite different."  Ten percent of the drinking  
In the state of Indiana, the  population are alcoholics,  
legal limit for BAC is . I 0 per- showing very little distinctions  
cent but both the American  for cultural backgrounds and  
Medical Agency and legislators  almost no distinctions for age.  
are pushing to have that limit  This would mean that on Notre  
lowered to .05. Some states  Dame's campus alone, there  
even have a status known as  should be roughly 700 people  
"Drivin~ While Impaired" which  with primary to advanced  
is set at a lower BAC than . I 0.  stages of alcoholism.  

Are you misusing alcohol? 
Does drinking impair your ability to meet school, home, or work 
responsiblitles? 

Do you sometimes e~tperience a blackout while drinking? 
When you're sober, do you sometimes regret things you've said or 
done while drinking? 

Have you ever come in conflict with the law while drinking? 
Do you feel uncomfortable if alcohol is not available in social situa­
tions? 

Do you fail to keep promises about controlling ot cutting down on 
your drinking? 

Do you ever lie about how much you have been drinking, or try to 
rationalize your drinking to yourself? 

Do you sometimes feel guilty about your drinking? 
'Frankenstein' dramatizes moral responsibility 
KIM TRENNER "Frankenstein" by Mary Shelley creation of a monster. Victor stein, the creator, is often con­creature, which is the most accent writer comes to Saint Mary's Frankenstein's experiments fused with the monster. In her recurring and dominant theme 
O'Laughlin Auditorium tomor­culminate in the animation of program notes, Field makes in the play. What Krempe "Did I request thee, Maker, row night. lifeless matter---should he be this distinction clear. She also does, in effect is to bring the from my Clay "More than an adaptation this held responsible for his crea­emphasizes that Frankenstein moral issues to light. To mould me Man? Did I solicit play Is a response to the tion? This question of moral is not a doctor, but rather a Conflict arises, said Tezla, thee novel," said playwright Barbara responsibility as well as other very young student at In-when Frankenstein tries to From darkness to promote Field in a press release. "The issues such as the need for ' golstadt, a German university. deny his creature's existence. me?" heart of the book is the love and scientific responsibil­Two other characters from He refuses to give him the love 
Adam dialogue between Frankenstein ity are all emphasized in the the book are included in this he demands, the love which we From Paradise Lost by and the creature and one in play. adaptation; Frankenstein's fian­all need, said Tezla. With his John Milton, Book X 1667 which I'm focusing this script." The play begins at the North cee, Elizabeth, and Professor demands for love and accep­Field's play, like the novel, Pole, where Frankenstein has Krempe, a composite of several tance, the creature forces A thought-provoking adapta­emphasizes the consequences pursued his creature, who is professors at the university Frankenstein to acknowledge tion of the classic horror tale of a young university student's now beyond his control. In a who taught Frankenstein. his existence. series of flashbacks, Franken­Michael Tezla, who plays The current production of 
stein recalls the events which Professor Krempe, explained "Frankenstein" is directed by have led him to this point. He his role in the play in a recent Michael Maggio, resident direc­realizes that his search for the telephone interview. "Krempe tor at Chicago's Goodman secrets of bringing life to mat­is a foil to young Frankenstein. Theatre. The play will visit ter has led to his ultimate He knows he has a brilliant more than 70 cities in 34 destruction. student and he knows that states in the next five months. 
In this version of the play, Frankenstein is working on Tezla reports that things are Field uses two actors to portray more than he will divulge," going very well on tour and Victor Frankenstein and two for remarked Tezla. "He is im­that they have had a very en­the creature. The character at potent in producing something thusiastic response from the North Pole is simply Frank­new so he tries to seize on the audiences so far. enstein; the other, Victor, is his power of his student" he The show will begin at 8 remembered vision of himself added. p.m. tomorrow night. Tickets at the beginning of his journey. When Krempe learns of are available at the O'Laughlin The Creature is Frankenstein's Frankenstein's creation he is at Box Office and are priced at companion at the pole, who once "horrified and fascinated," $7.50, $6.50 and $5.50. There also exists in the past as said Tezla. In his horror and is a one dollar discount for Adam. shock he questions Franken-both students and senior 
The character of Franken-stein's to his citizens. 


---~-------------------~-----------------~-­
Business 
page 9

Monday, February 1, 1988 
IRA's offer tax free haven for retirement investments 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN Business Writer 
Editor's Note: This is part of a continuing series on invest­ment opportunites avaiLable to Notre Dame students. 
Most seniors are now busily lining up a job, and the prospect of retirement lies far in the future. However, to en­sure having enough money to retire with requires one to begin planning a retirement fund as early as possible. 
Individual Retirement Ac­counts, usually refered to as IRA's, provide wage earners with a tax break and an oppor­tunity to save money. 
This segment of Wall Street at Notre Dame Avenue will ex­amine IRA's, and the different implications of the new tax law to IRA savers. 
IRA's initially started as a tax deductible savings plan of­fered by many financial insti­tutions including savings and loans, and brokerage firms. 
Savers could contribute up to $2000 a year to an IRA. The amount contributed was deducted from one's taxes. People found this "forced" 
savings plan  attractive:  the  
more  one  contributed  the  
greater the tax deduction.  

The recent tax law changes have altered the attractiveness of IRA's for some, but the basic plan remains the same. 
Anybody can start an Indi­vidual Retirement Account. The $2000 limit still applies, and savers can contribute this amount annually until retire­ment. 
Many IRA's are self­directed. That is, the money can be invested anyway the saver chooses. 
The real advantage of IRA's is that an investor is not taxed on any gains of the account. This includes capital apprecia­tion, interest, and dividends. 
The contributions and gains cannot be withdrawn without penalty until the saver reaches the age of fifty-nine and a half. 
The money withdrawn after 
One must decide whether to take an investment approach of safety, growth, or a combina­tion of both. 
For many people, an IRA is a nestegg: a guaranteed savings account at retirement. 
Others opt for investments that pay higher returns. These investors prefer growth invest­ments in order to counter infla­tion. 
After contributing to an ac­count for a number of years, some investors diversify their IRA's by investing for safety and growth. 
Before investigating any IRA investment strategy, one must realize that funds available will be relatively low due to the an­nual $2000 contribution limit. 
An initial stategy may in­clude safe investments, such as Certificates of Deposits (CD's) or money market funds. 
Those looking for safety will continue to invest in these se­curities and U.S. government securities. 
The interest earned on these instruments is not taxed, and these earnings, in combination with the next two years' contri-
Wall Street at N.D. Avenue MODEL PORTFOLIO UPDATE 
#  OF  SHARES  PURCHASE  CURRENT  PERCENT  
STOCK  PURCHASED  PRICE  (11/4)  PRICE  (1/29)  CHANGE  
BAXTER  50  $22.50  $24.50  + 8.9  
COKE  25  $40.63  $37.63  -7.4  
PACTEL  50  $28.75  $29.50  + 2.6  
WRIGLEY  25  $54.00  $77.25  + 43.1  
PORTFOLIO  $4928.13  $5571.88  + 13.1  
DOW JONES  1963.53  1958.22  -.27  

Wall Street has shaky ~limb.. . . 
Associated Press rates. 
On Friday, the Dow Jones 
NEW YORK-Still quivering average of 30 industrials rose three months after Black Mon­28.18 points to 1,958.22, marking day, Wall Street remains con­a 54.71-point gain for the week. fused by conflicting signals The New York Stock Ex-about the direction of the eco­change composite index rose nomy, and uncertain whether 1.91 to 144.13, a 5.44-point gain the next big turn for stocks is over the week. up or down. "What's holding the market 
Lately, it has been hooking a together is the hope that we've ride on every passing fancy-­seen the worst since the big from takeover stocks, to decline of October,'' said dividend-related issues, to the Frank Cappiello, head of the latest prediction on interest McCullough, Andrews & Cap-shares from a few stocks or bonds of different industries. However, some portion should remain in risk-free assets. 
There are certain things a new IRA owner should keep in mind when developing an in­vestment stategy. 
An IRA investor should not invest in securities that offer tax benefits because IRA in­come is not taxed. Included in this category are municipal 
bonds  and  certain  limited  
partnerships.  
IRA  investors  are  not  al­ 

lowed to purchase certain real assets for their accounts. 
Collectibles such as artwork, coins, metals, and stamps are also not permissible. 
The IRA is an attractive savings instrument that allows for tax-free investment in­come. 
In addition to assuring that money is available at retire­ment, certain savers will enjoy a tax deduction. 
The younger one starts an IRA, the more one will enjoy its benefits and the more one will enjoy that retirement world cruise. 
p1ello Inc. secunbes firm m Baltimore. 
Last week's report that the nation's gross national product rose 4.2 percent in the fourth quarter sent bond prices soaring, and interest rates to their lowest levels in months. 
The reason: a surge in inven­tories that was mainly respon­sible for the GNP gain. The bulge gave bond-market bulls cause to believe the Federal Reserve would let interest rates continue to fall. 
Water bar floating on flood of yuppies 
u Now, after a hard day at the office, you can quench your thirst at a bar that serves only water. According to Venture magazine there is actually a bar, called H20 Bar, that serves 120 varieties of mineral water at $1 to $5 a bottle, and nothing else. So how does a bar with only six stools and that serves only 25 to 35 people a day do financially? "It grossed $1.4 million last year, mainly due to carryouts. 
u Loud clothes-It is time to trade in that jambox for a jacket. Toshiba America's Sonic Jacket includes four speakers, a battery pack, and a sound amplifier. To enjoy one's favorite tunes, the jacket wearer simply places a por­table radio, compact disc player, or cassette player in the front pocket. The Sonic Jacket emits music from the two shoulder pockets and chest pockets. The $200 jacket weighs ten pounds. However, the weight is evenly distributed, and the jacket can be worn while jogging. Rumor has it that Toshiba is working on Sonic Underwear next. 

Wholihan and Murray 
Business Briefs 


u This is just a test-According to Saatchi &Saatchi, certain requirements must be met for a city to become a test market. The city must have a population mix that represents the nation's population, and the residents of the city must be the recipients of advertising that is generated by local media. The Twin Cities led the U.S. with 92 new food and drug test products over the past two years. Of the top twenty test markets, half are located in the midwest, including Colum­bus, Kansas City, Fort Wayne, and Des Moines. South Bend, which did not make the top twenty, is still used as a test market on a limited basis, according to a student who used to stock groceries at Martin's Supermarket. 
u Top Gun-For you ROTC buffs, there is more to life than a boring 40 hour workweek. Every other year, the Air Force Tactical Air Command has the Gunsmoke competition, a flying contest where pilots vie for "Top Gun", the best pilot in the country. Last October, Danny Hamilton became the first reservist in the competition's history to win the title. Hamilton was mentioned in Inc. Magazine as the founder of Microlan, a computer engineering, sales and leasing firm. He flies an F-16 on the weekends. 
The Air Force is going to take this successful businessman and family man for everything he's worth in their upcoming publicity campaign. Hamilton is going to be billed as the new Air Force flyer, and looks like he stepped off the screen of the movie "The Right Stuff." 
u The Last Word-Alan S. Binder, commenting on David Stockman's book, "The Triumph of Politics;" quoted in Inc. Magazine: "There are plenty of reasonable ideas for solving our economic problems--but when politics runs wild, sensible thinking gets shunted aside ... We still see the same political posturing, the same arguing over statistics (and the tricky accounting methods used to compile them), the same refusal to come to grips with reality." 

this age is taxed at the inves­tor's current tax rate, which is probably lower since the inves­tor would be in a lower income tax bracket after retiring. 
In addition, the annual con­tribution is still tax deductible if one's annual income is less than $25,001 for those filing singly and $40,001 for those married and filing jointly. 
Partial deductions are al­lowed for those filing singly with annual income between $25,001 and $35,000, and for those filing jointly with income between $40,001 and $50,000. 
How to invest the funds is a question that arises for the IRA investor. 

Wall St. 
at 

NO Ave. 
butions, will provide a base from which an investor can ex­pand one's investments. 
The next question an IRA in­vestor faces is with whom to place the account. The answer depends on the investment strategy chosen. 
If an IRA saver chooses to invest strictly in instruments available through savings and loan associations, such as CD's, the investor could easily establish an IRA there. 
If financial securities such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds are chosen for one's IRA, the investor should consider setting up an account at a brokerage firm. 
Growth investors should wait to invest in stocks and bonds until after having saved roughly $5000. This amount al­lows the saver to create a diversified portfolio. 
A sample growth-oriented IRA account could include 
! 
·Sports Briefs 
Kirk Gibson has decided to take advantage of the collusion ruling which declared him and eight other players free agents. He will sign a three-year, $4.5 million contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers today. -The Observer 
An advanced conditioning class will be offered to all students beginning today. The sessions will be on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday afternoons from 5-6 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Facility. A physical examina­tion is recommended. -The Observer 
Referees.are needed for SMC intramural basketball. Call 5548 for more information. -The Observer 
The Gymnastics Club willholdmandatorypractices this week. Monday's practice is at 4:30 p.m., Tuesday through Friday practices are from 4-6 p.m. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in forming a women's rugby team, please contact Lauren (3560), Cathy (4067) or Sarah (4039). No experience necessary. -The Observer 
The NVA track meet will take place Sunday, February 7, at 1 p.m. at the Loftus Indoor Complex. Indi­vidual or team entries will be accepted at the NVA office through tomorrow. For more information call the NVA of­fice at 239-6100. -The O~server 
Anyone interested in becoming a student athletic trainer should contact Jim Russ, JACC training room, as soon as possible for information and application. Travel and benefits are available. Students must have discipline and be hard working in nature. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
page 10 The Observer Monday, February 1, 1988 
Win comes just as predicted 
Irish wrestlers breeze past foes at National Catholic 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Before the National Catholic Tournament at Cleveland on Saturday, Notre Dame wres­tling coach Fran McCann all but predicted victory. 
At the tournament, the Irish wrestlers showed just why McCann was so confident. 
Notre Dame breezed past defending champion John Car­roll to win its second National Catholic title in the last three years. All10 of the Notre Dame starters placed, and seven of them won individual cham­pionships. 
"We went in with the idea that we had the shot of winning it," said McCann. "We had con­fidence. We knew it wasn't going to be easy, but we really hustled." 
Individual winners for Notre Dame included 118-pound soph­omore Andy Radenbaugh, 134­pound junior Jerry Durso, 142­pound senior Ron Wisniewski, 150-pound freshman Todd Layton, 158-pound freshman Mark Gerardi, 177-pound junior Chris Geneser and 190­pound sophomore George Logsdon. 
Logsdon and Wisniewski may have produced the biggest surprises of the tournament. Logsdon, a walk-on, came into the tournament with just a 7-8 record, but won the 190-pound division with relative ease. 
"He has improved a lot," said McCann. "He's really coming along. He didn't have a close match in the tourna­ment. He's got a lot more con­fidence now, and hopefully it will carry over to (NCAA) Regionals.'' 
Notre Dame hosts the NCAA Western Regional, which determines individual NCAA qualifiers, on March 4-5. 
Wisniewski, an NCAA qualifier last year, had a 7-5-1 record before the weekend. The senior co-captain dominated his division, leaving McCann wondering why a John Carroll wrestler was named outstand­ing wrestler of the tournament instead of Wisniewski. 
"I was really disappointed he wasn't named outstanding wrestler," said McCann. "He dominated everyone there. He had falls and technical falls, and beat the guy in the final 21-5. It was by far the most lop­sided final in the tournament." 
Other individuals placing for Notre Dame included senior heavyweight Domenic Prin­zivalli (third), 124-pound soph­omore Dave Smith (fourth) and 167-pound freshman Todd Tomazic (fourth). It was the first action for Tomazic since the collarbone injury he suf­fered over winter break. 
"He's at about 90 percent," said McCann. "The layoff hurt him in conditioning." 
Notre Dame's next dual meet will be at Nebraska next Sat­urday. 

NVA announces. deadlines, hours 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has an­nounced the following entry deadlines: 

February 3: 
•NV
A Relays. There are men's and women's divisions for the event on Feb. 9 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Swimmers must represent their hall. Halls may have more than one team. There are seven events, with a three-race limit per person. 

•Indoor 
Soccer open tourna­ment. There is a late-night schedule for the single elimina­tion tourney. Roster limit is eight and there is a $5 entry fee. 


•Co-ree volleyball open tournament. Six-player teams, three men and three women. The roster minimum is eight, maximum 12. 
There will be a Chinese dance demonstration at the Library Auditorium Tuesday, Feb. 16, from 4-5 p.m. presented by Hongyi Sun. There will be a question and answer session about Tai Ji sword dancing fol­lowing the demonstration and Hongyi Sun will provide a group of lessons to those inter­ested. 
NVA also has pledge cards available for the Century Club until March 2. Members fill out a pledge card at NVA, pick an aerobic activity, choose a goal to work toward and complete a log book. Free t-shirts awarded for working out. 
Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­contact sports. Forms and more information are avail­able in the NVA office. 
Students, faculty and staff may rent cross-country ski equipment from NVA, Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, inside the golf pro shop entrance. Check outs are available from 4:30-5:30 p.m. Thursday­Saturday and from 12-1 p.m. Saturday. 

n..,..._.Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent eem., 8CCepU classified edweitt..ng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtdar. 1he a.--Saint Mery's office, located on the third floor of tillgg.-Collge Cent•, M:CePts claalfteds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtdar. Deedllne for next-d-r clualfledala 3 p.m. All clualfleda must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:har.cten Pel' day. 
NOTICES 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 1Q-5:30 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 
2371849 
...............................:................................ 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: NO woman's class ring. If found please call 283·1363. 
LOST: GOLD ID BRACELET. CALL BERNADETTE 283-2795. 
FOUND: GLASSES IN BLUE CASE BE· TWEEN ART & COMMERCE BLDG. CLAIM IN LOST & FOUND IN LAFOR· TUNE. 
LOST: A GOLD COLORED PEACE SYMBOL EARRING. IT'S A CHEAP PIECE OF METAL, BUT I REALLY LIKED IT. PLEASE CALL KAREN AT 4500. THANKS! 
LOST --earmuffs, white rabbit fur. MY EARS ARE COLO!II Probably lost in CompoMath Bldg. Call Linda at 2565 if found. 
FOUND: POCKET CALCULATOR LEFT IN TAX FINAL CLASSROOM IN DECEMBER. CALL 2311-7298 TO IDEN­TIFY & CLAIM. 
LOST; Gold signet ring, with inrtials KML inside. If found, please call Miss Ludwig at 288-8730. Sentimental value. 
FOUND: (1125) Woman's gold ring in Madeleva room 224 ?LEASE CALL Vicki at SMC -4284 to claim 

LOST: Pearl ring In vaclnlty of the circle and Alumni before break. Pearl aet In gold, EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Reward. Call 284-4141. 
MISSING: leather bomber jacket from BEEF'S house Fri. Jan.22. Important that it is returned. Call Allison at 1340. 
LOST: GOLD·RIMMED GLASSES IN A BROWN CASE ON TUES JAN. 26. THE CASE SAID SEBASTIAN ON IT. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X2039 OR X2040. 
································································ 
~~_FO_R_R_ENT __.
_ 

FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288­0955' 255-3684 
Roommate wanted at NO Apts.$125otnth¢utils.Call 288·2642 
................................................................ 
LARGE DUPLEX FOR RENT. WILL AC­COMMODATE 8-9 STUDENTS. THREE COMPLETE BATHS, COMPLETELY FURNISHED INCLUDING WASHER & DRYER. NEW SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234-9364 AFTER 5, NANCY HUMBARGER. 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 277· 3097, 683·8889. 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED RANCH 3 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS WASHER­GREATNEIGHBORHOOD,OFF TOR·SOFBLVD. IDEAL FOR 3 STU· DENTS CALL 232·3616 
WANTED 

Need Ride to LU. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa· tionalist Call 1108 evenings. 
NEED RIDE TO PITT THIS WEEKEEND CALL JOE 3883 
Earn $&11rl MATEO'S SUBS needs drivers! If interested in big $$$, call 271·0SUB 
MAID NEEDED: $$$$$BIG BUCKS$$$$$ $$$$$BIG BUCKS$$$$$ We need a hard worker with the willing­ness to overlook a little fl~h. It looks worse than it is. All it takes is 4·5 hours a week. Fringe benefits are available. We will pro­vide the transportation. Only serious in· quires only! Experience preferred. Please contact Sam or Ken at 234-6727. 
AFTER SCHOOL CHILDCARE WANTED for faculty member's children, 9 & 12 easy job. study time, 2 afternoons. perscn with car preferred Call 287-7400 or 239·6226 
FOR SALE 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELL­ING IRISH PAINTER CAPS BADIN HALL IS SELLING IRISH PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS PAINTER CAPS 
1971 Mustang. Fully restored. 351 Cleveland. Automatic, AMi'M cassette, 2·dr. hdtp. Luxury car. Call 586·2482 after 5 pm. 
car for sale phone Suresh 239-52731.!34­3250 leave a message 
FOR SALE: Whipper II slalom K-1. Kev· laographrte. Very light and very fast 
375.00 Gemini C·2. Close cockpit, bow right. Built by Nitty Valley boats. 450.00 Shawn 271·0758 
TICKETS 
NEEDED: up to 5 UCLA B·ball GA's for family!! call Kris-3099 PLEASE! 
Parents in search of DUKE tix (at Our· ham) ....HELP! X3633 
PERSONALS "' 
We're approaching the maximum limit tor membership in the Steve Miller Fan Club. Otter Lovers UNITE ' 
Attn: 259 Zahm and Apt. 205 Campus View: Sorry, I did my best I (Golonka, you skrewed up my camera) Susan 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Sell old texts for $$$. Pandoras -808 Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily 10·5:30. Also save $ on used books. 
Have A Coke And A Smile 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB 
PAINTER CAPS ............ PAINTER CAPS •••••••••••• BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS.. BADIN IS SELLING PAINTER CAPS... TO BUY YOUR PAINTER CAPS, STOP BY 403 BADIN OR CALL 2728 •••••••••••• PAINTER CAPS 
One Calorie Diet Coke 
HELP, I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON FRI. FEB. 5 WILL SHARE EX­PENSES CALL CARMEN 284-5405 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that spe­cial guy the best gilt of all -!yourself -In a Glamour Portrait by Joe Ringer, Call for details and free brochure. 287­0613. 
3,420 ON FEB. 2, IT GOES DOWN. WHAT'S IT MEAN ? BE AT THE JOCE CENTER THAT NIGHT AND FIND OUT 
WANTED Friendly Mac users with afternoons free. Earn extra $$ for break! Call Karen after 3 at 239-6757 
Hey Corrigan: Not even All loves you after Friday night. 
FLOWERS! VALENTINE'S DAY! FLOWERS I Send a Valentine Flower to your sweet· heart, friend or roommate. Flowers on sale Wed.• Thurs.• and Fri. at the dining halls for just $1. We'll deliver on Feb. 14. 
VARSITY ATHLETES Get your dates NOW for the VARSITY ATHLETES BALL 13 Feb. JACC Concourse for info call 2811 
SPRING BREAK 
BAHAMA PARTY '88 
CHARTER 8-MAN BOATS TO BIMINI 
ISLAND. FOR MORE INFO CALL 
WILLIE 234-8382 
A SUMMER IN EUROPE? INTER­ESTED IN TRAVEL TO FRANCE,GER,SWITZ,ITALY? SIGN UP FOR THE ND-SMC SUMMER ROME PROGRAM FROM JUNE 12-JULY 11. COURSE CREDIT AVAILABLE IN ITALIAN,SOC,HIST. FOR MORE INFO CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR. BLACK AT 284-4460. 
................................................................ 
RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK, NEW ENGLAND AREA, ESP. CT. FOR VALENTINE'S DAY WEEKEND CALL DAN X1167 
HAPPY 22ND LISA!!! LIVE IT UP YOU WILD WOMAN YOU !II LOTS OF LOVE YOUR LITTLE SIS, "RON!" 
Attention Aft Owners: We are not the All nappers, we are anti·spoilsports If there is no formal apology in this column for that top ten by Tuesday, we plan to make your life a living hell. We know who you are, you don't know us. 
FEMALE NON·SMOKING ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR CAMPUSVIEW 198&89. CALL JACQUI AT 4376. 
Let the Party Doctors perform their sur· gery of sound al your next event... Call Dan at 3626 What is Bill Webb Day? 
A d•y of joy and happiness. 
A d•y of generous gift·giving. 
A day of blatant debauchery. 
BILL WEBB DAY 
February 12. 1988 
only 11 days left 
HEY NO AND ST. MARY'S: Tired of the cold? The Groove will meH the snow at the BCA Festival Feb. 13. "' 
YOW PRETTY LADIES AROUND THE WORLD: The Groove CHIPS ·TUES, FEB 23 
TELL YOUR BROTHER, YOUR SISTER, AND YOUR MOMMA TOO! 
NEED RIDE to Exit 12 on the Ohio Turnpike for weekend of Feb. 5. Call Dan x1155 ·will share $ and driving. 
Anyone interested in a one month sum· mer study program in Scandinavia and the Soviet Union? The program will run from June 17 to July 15, 1988. For more informalion, call David or Pat at x1155. Hurry, space is limited. 
TLC, Did I ever fell you that you have sexy feel? Love, SJC 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORNINGS 914-3814224 
MODEL UNITED NATIONS CLUB: 

Organizational meeting, Tuesday, February 2, 6:30p.m., not 7:30p.m. 
because of Maryland game. Room 123 Nieuwland. 
Vicky: Congratulations on making it through the week. Sorry for doubting you--1 was wrong. I should have known you could do it. 
"He of little faith" 
Monday, February 1, 1988 
The Observer page 11 

The Observer I David Fisher Notre Dame's Adam Hlrshfeld won the three-meter diving compe­tition Saturday In a dual meet with St. Bonaventure. 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 

r------·COUPON SAVINGS------..., 
I$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
t---~~!~----~~~-~ 
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1
1

I MasterCuts
I Reg· $8 family haircutters
r-------------------1I 
'$5 OFF ANY PERM i 
: Mast~'"£~ 1 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 277-3770 
Irish swimmers beat Bonnies 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
The Irish mens swimming team needed to be at its best to have a chance against St. Bonaventure Saturday, and the squad responded with its best effort of the season. 
The Irish used team depth to cap off a week of earnest prep­aration in downing the Bonnies, 114-103. The win, against a dominant team that awards scholarships, left coach Tim Welsh ecstatic. 
"The key factor in the meet was that it came from the in­side out," Welsh said. "I told the team that the idea of com­mitment, energy and prepara­tion of the group all came from the team and built to a peak this weekend. This was a com­plete team victory. Of the 29 actively training individuals, 24 scored points. "This is the strongest victory so far, and it was a total team concept. The team has put a list up in the 
~iii;-sign up if you 
continued from page 16 
as many in the next two minutes to keep Kentucky on top. One basket was made pos­sible when Ellis was able to force a jump ball after Chap­man missed a shot, a play Phelps called one of the game's biggest. 
But the Irish had another 
shot, actually two more shots, 
but as the luck of the day would 
have, neither found the mark. 
After Winston Bennett over­
threw a long inbounds attempt, 
Rivers hit two free throws to 
bring the Irish within three 
with 24 seconds remaining. 
Freshman guard Tim 
Singleton then stripped Chap­
man in the backcourt, but amid 
some contact, Rivers missed a 
short banker and Jamere Jack­
son's attempt was blocked by 
Ellis. Davender, who led the 
Wildcats with 23 points, put the 
game away with six free 
throws in the final 11 seconds. 
Ellis, who found out he was think we can go undefeated the rest of the season." 
The womens squad, mean­while, bounced back from a Friday loss at Illinois State to down the Bonnies, 150-114. 
"This was our chance to mea­sure up to the Midwest cham­pion of last year," Welsh said of the Illinois State meet. "They are a balanced, strong, complete team. We showed considerable strength and we were able to create openings and prepare for our champion­ship meets. 
"We were able to keep opti­mistic and our energy fresh for today (against St. Bonaven­ture). We even swam better today." 
In the men's meet, the Irish took a 20-12 lead by taking the first four places in the 1000 freestyle; Brian Rini paced that attack with a first place. After falling behind 34-32, Jim Byrne won the 200 individual medley and the Irish led 42-41, a lead they never relinquished. 
Other winning performances by the Irish included Adam 
starting at forward opposite 
Bennett just before game time, 
scored a career-high 14 points 
and grabbed six rebounds in his 
first collegiate start. It was ''by 
far and away his best game," 
according to Kentucky coach 
Eddie Sutton. 
The freshman earned the 
Bernie Shively Memorial 
Plaque, given to the MVP in 
each Kentucky-Notre Dame 
game, and Richard Madison, 
who had been the starter 
recently, did not see any action 
because of Ellis' solid play. 
"I felt comfortable right 
away," said Ellis, the son of 
former NBA great LeRoy Ellis. 
"There are so many veterans 
that make it easy to fit in here, 
that you can just concentrate 
on your game and do try to 
make a contribution." 
Ellis, Bennett and center Rob 
Lock combined for 18 rebounds 
as the Wildcats became only 
the third team to outrebound 
the Irish, 29-25. 
"The biggest key for us was 
defensive rebounding," said 
Kentucky's Sutton. "We held Hirshfield in 3-meter diving, Rini in the 200 butterfly, Byrne in the 200 backstroke and Paul Godfrey in the 500 freestyle. 
The women started their meet against the Bonnies with a victory in the 200 medley relay by the team of Christine Moston, Becky Wood, Annette Quill and Tracy Johnson. The Irish also took the last three places to take the lead at 11-4. Moston won the 100 backstroke three events later to boost the Irish to a 36-30 advantage. 
The Bonnies took a 51-49lead, paced by wins in the 100 breaststroke and the 200 butter­fly, but Johnson put the Irish on top for good with a victory in the 50 freestyle. Other Irish winners included Andrea 
Bonny in the 1-meter and 3­meter diving, Kathy Quirk in the 100 freestyle, and the 400 free relay team of Johnson, Kelly Quinn, Quirk and Quill. 
The women host Eastern Michigan Tuesday, and both teams travel to St. Louis Friday and visit Ball State Sat­urday. 
them under double figures (in offensive rebounds, seven) which we haven't been doing very often this year." 
David Rivers led the Irish with 21 points, but was held to two-of-nine shooting in the second half with Rex Chapman guarding him most of the time. 
"He's such a great player that I just tried to stay with him and hopefully throw him out of his rhthym a little," said Chap­man. "You can't stop him, you just hope you can do something to contain him somewhat." 
Gary Voce added a career­high 18 points for the Irish (now 0-3 in Super Bowl Sunday games) and Fredrick hit for 14, tying his career high. 
"I'm disappointed in the way we lost," said Phelps. "I thought we made some mental mistakes we shouldn't have made that put us in negative situations. 
"We're a team that ab­solutely has to do the little things to be consistent." 

We've been working since before dawn. • • 
At Adworks, we've been spending long hours doing desk­top publishing for almost two years. So this "new age technology" is old hash to us. We've typeset programs, bro­chures, flyers, stationery, and invitations for groups all over the ND/SMC campuses. 
We also have a top-quality resume service that has provid­ed professional yet inexpensive resumes for hundreds of students. 
Now's the time to stop by our office at 301 LaFortune to see how we can serve you. Or call us at 9-ADW-ORKS. 
ADW@2RKS 
THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 
It's High Time You Checked Us Out. 
----~~-----­
Monday, February 1 , 1988

The Observer 
MVP Williams etches name in record books 
"I didn't come here to be the The four touchdowns -all in a could walk and set up," Wil­Williams said that he thought to start a remarkable second-period ex­liams said. "No matter what the MVP award could have SAN DIEGO -Doug Wil­

liams' slice of Super Bowl his­tory has nothing to do with black and white, except for the print in the record book: 340 yards and four touchdown passes. 
No other quarterback, black or white, ever did better. 
Williams, the first black quarterback to start a Super Bowl, drove the Washington Redskins to a 42-10 rout of the Denver Broncos Sunday night. All week, Williams refused to make this a matter of race and he maintained that posture after being named the game's most valuable player. 
Rout 
continued from page 16 
Beginning with the 56-yard touchdown pass from Elway to Nattie! on their first play from scrimmage, the Broncos befuddled the Redskins in the first quarter with just about everything in their diverse playbook. 
While Washington was start­ing its first five possessions at its own 20 or worse and open receivers were dropping passes, Denver was moving up and down the field. 
There was a halfback pass to Elway, the first reception by a quarterback in Super bowl his­tory; a quarterback draw, shovel passes and runs when Washington was looking for the pass. 
But the Broncos couldn't finish off what they started. 
Their second drive stalled at the Washington 7 and resulted in a field goal, their third was thwarted when Alvin Walton, the strong safety who had 2 lt2 sacks, dropped Elway for an 18­yard loss, pushing the Broncos out of field goal range. 
After Washington went 1-2-3­punt on its first series, Elway went boom -and it was 7-0 Broncos just 1: 57 into the game. 
It was the simplest of pat­terns, Nattiel on a fly, streak­ing right by Barry Wilburn, who later had two intercep­tions. Nattie! caught the ball in stride at the 7 and fell over the goal line as Wilburn tackled him too late. 
It was the earliest touchdown in Super Bowl history, 3:39 ear­lier than the previous mark, when Dallas scored against Pittsburgh 12 years ago, 4:36 into the game. 
The Redskins got one first down on the next series, but Steve Cox had to punt again and back came the Broncos on a 61-yard drive on which Elway did everything pass, run and catch, the latter a 23-yardreception from running back 
Steve Sewell' to Whom he had 
handed off. But Elway Was thrown for a 
1-yard lOSS On a third-dOWn quarterback draw and the Broncos had to settle for 
Karlis' 24-yard field goal that made it 10-0, 5:51 intO the game • Washington continued to 
Start in bad field pOSitiOn -itS first four possessions began in­side its 20 and it fifth began at the 20. 

The Redskins were also kil-l 
ling themselves ·-Clark, Sanders and Kelvin Bryant all dropped passes in the first quarter and a holding call on 
Super Bowl," Williams said. "I just want to be the quarterback of the Washington Redskins." 
Washington Coach Joe Gibbs echoed those feelings. 
"Hopefully, we're at the point now where most people were looking at players, not colors anymore." 
Williams wiped out any ra­cial considerations with a record-breaking performance that matched or broke marks established by three of the greatest Super Bowl quarter­backs in history. 
The 340 yards broke the record of 331 set by San Fran­cisco's Joe Montana in 1985. 
Don Warren erased a 25-yard run by Smith. 
Finally, they did something right, starting the second per­iod the way the Broncos started the first. 
Two plays later, Smith broke through a huge hole off right tackle and raced by Tony Lilly on his 58-yard TD romp, the first score of his pro career. That made it 21-10 with 6: 27left in the half. 
Then, 2 lt2 minutes later, it was Williams again to Sanders, who went in motion to the left, cut diagonally across the field, and caught the ball all alone at the five for TD no. 4. 
No. 5, the 8-yard pass to Didier, came after Wilburn picked off an Elway pass at his own 21. Seven plays later, on third and 4, Williams lofted it softly to his tight end in the cor­ner to tie the TD pass record and shatter yet another record points in a quarter in any playoff game. 
The Redskins scored the only 
TD of the second half on 
Smith's 4-yard run early in the 
fourth quarter to break the 
touchdown record set by 
several teams, including the 
Giants against the Broncos last 
year and the Bears against 
New England in their 46-10 win 
two years ago. 
On their first offensive play of the quarter, Williams, who missed two plays on the previ­ous series when he slipped and suffered a hyperflexed left knee, hit Sanders on an 80-yard touchdown play to cut it to 10-7. 

plosion -tied the record of Pit­tsburgh's Terry Bradshaw in 1979. 
And Williams touched off the Washington powder keg with an 80-yard touchdown pass, tying the record for longest pass set by the Los Angeles Raiders' Jim Plunkett in 1981. 
Between them, Bradshaw, Montana and Plunkett own eight Super Bowl rings. 
Ironically, Williams got rol­ling after leaving the game with an injured left knee near the end of the first quarter. He was replaced for two plays by Jay Schroeder. 
"On the sidelines, I felt I 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -It was Doug Williams' dream pass, Ricky Sanders' fantasy catch, a per­fectly thrown ball caught in stride and a breakaway run for an 80-yard touchdown. 
It came with stunning, unex­pected suddenness, just 53 seconds into the second quar­ter, and was the opening salvo in the most ferocious one­period attack in Super Bowl history. 
If there was a single play, a single moment that presaged Washington's 42-10 victory Sun­day over Denver, it was that simple, elegant pass from Wil­liams to Sanders at a time when the Redskins were strug­gling. 
Only moments before, Wash­ington seemed doomed. The Redskins trailed 10-0 and Wil­liams lay on the turf clutching a painfully strained left knee. 
He had gone back to pass and hyperflexed his knee, bending it backward in a way it's not 

nv....""'sHair 
Styling 
531 N. Michigan St:. 
~ne 233-4957 
•Round trtp ....,.._to beautiful Daytona v1a modern highway rnoto<t:oachea. 0 Seven ntghtl accommodoltono at one o1 Daytona~-hotola. The majority of hotalo that we u 
are chain ope<atod and 118 newly remodeled to~-~ chain requirements. They are all local directly on ll1e beach and are ll1e betll pooolble a""""T"'allono to mal<e a luxurlouo vacation. 
0 Optional one-day oxcural<lnsiD Disney World, Epeot er, Deep Sea Fishing, Sea World Wei·N· Wild, Party Ship, Hawaiian I.!Jau. and many more attract . ' 
o Frea pool decl< partln-music and refresh,.nts. Altha elolhal we use, our pool docks are much larger and more popular. Consumer companies ltke th s:ve agreed to run contests and 
giveaway ;>romotlonalltomo on all of our pool docks. 1

•A professional stat: ' alweyo present to make your travels worry 
o Spoclal dlocounll how_, lllrangad -Daylona Beach merchanls~~udlng nightclubs,reotsurants.gl!tat.Jpoancsmuc~ more ' 
0 =~odcar rental prices lor all SIIJdanta 18 years and older. AI most ol our lolo, the caro will be 
o All taxes and llpo oro Included. 

•Our company, along wllhlha hotels, local businesses and tho Chamber of Commerce have rrangad 
opadal -.to and acllvHios for underagod aludants. 

•Rates 
rrom $199 could vary due to number of i)601lle in group. 

•cALL 
CHRis KILEY 283-3382 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 


F R Q M 
$199 · 
+++++++++++++++++• 
the pain, I was going back in." 
Williams struggled through a tough first quarter as Denver jumped into a 10-0 lead. 
"We were not getting a lot of field position in the first quar­ter," Williams said. "There was some early drops and they were blitzing early. But I knew we could come back." 
Williams remembered that the Redskins had fallen behind 14-0 against Chicago in the first round of the playoffs and recovered to win 21-17. 
"I was confident," he said. "We knew things would even­tually go our way, just like in Chicago, and they did." 
gone to other Redskins, includ­ing running back Tim Smith, who set a Super Bowl record with 204 yards rushing. 
"It could easily have gone to Tim or Ricky .Sanders," an­other record-setter with 193 re­ceiving yards. 
"That's the type of team we are," Williams said. 
Williams said he thought that the Redskins defense made a major contribution by holding Denver to a field goal when the Broncos, leading 7-0, were in position to take a two­touchdown lead in the first per­iod. 

80-yard TD pass turns game around 
uesigned to go. He crumplea to the ground for a 10-yard loss on the Redskins' 25 while the hearts of Washington fans sank. 
The Denver fans had been having their way all game, cheering wildly from the mo­ment of John Elway's 56-yard touchdown pass the first time he held the ball. Washington fans sat quietly with little to cheer the entire first quarter. 
After a few minutes on the turf, Williams got up slowly and jogged off to show he wasn't seriously hurt. Jay Schroeder, who hadn't played in a month, came in with the Redskins facing second-and-20 on the 25. 
Denver greeted Schroeder with a blitz and the former Pro Bowl quarterback went down immediately from a sack by Karl Mecklenburg. The Redskins were marching back­ward with alarming speed. 
It all changed, though, within a couple of minutes. After an exchange of punts, Washington took over on their 20. Williams returned to the game with a play that called for Sanders to sprint straight out down the right sideline against corner­back Mark Haynes. 
Williams took the snap, stepped back a few paces and threw a hard spiral that Sanders snared on the run with outstretched hands on Wash­ington's 48. 
From there, it was no more than a foot race. 

• •cop1es cop1es• •cop1es cop1es \1 kinko'sII 18187 State Road 23 South Bend, Indiana 46637 Telephone 219 271-0398  

,................~ 
: .&.P.!-.I.~!J.Qt:f.§. i
+ are now being accepted for 
• Building Supervisors of 
: LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER & STEPAN CENTER 
1\pply at the Office of Student Activities 315 LaFortune Student Center 

•

Deadline for submitting • applications is : 
February 22, 1988 + 

~
................) 
Monday, February 1 , 1988 
The Observer 
College basktball roundup 
Only BVU remains perfect 
Associated P'ress 
The winning streaks are over for Kansas and Purdue, but the victories keep coming for Brig­ham Young. 
Kansas State ended Kansas' 55-game home-court winning streak Saturday, while Indiana halted second-ranked Purdue's 16-game victory string. No. 7 BYU remained the nation's only major undefeated team, improving its record to 15-0 with a victory over Air Force. 
Mitch Richmond scored 35 points as Kansas State beat Kansas 72-61 at Lawrence. It was the Jayhawks' first home loss since Feb. 22, 1984, when they were beaten by Okla­homa. 
"We've had some unbeliev­able victories in that streak," Kansas Coach Larry Brown said. "It's time to start over." 
Senior Dean Garrett scored a career-high 31 points, includ­ing the winning basket with five seconds left, as Indiana downed Purdue 82-79 at Bloomington. Purdue entered the game with the longest major-college winning streak in the country. 
At Provo, Utah, Michael Smith scored 23 points as Brig­ham Young defeated Air Force 95-75. All five BYU starters scored at least 14 points. 
"I like everything about BYU," Air Force Coach Reggie Minton said. "Their inside guys score and get the writeups, but it's the guards that do the things needed to win and so far nobody's beaten them." 
In other Top Twenty games Saturday, top-ranked Arizona beat No. 13 Illinois 78-70; No.3 North Carolina edged Georgia Tech 73-71; No. 4 Nevada-Las Vegas beat Pacific 92-67; No. 10 Oklahoma beat No. 12 Iowa State 96-91; No. 11 Pittsburgh defeated Boston College 73-67, and Vanderbilt beat No. 14 Florida 92-65. 
Also, No. 15 Georgetown nipped Connecticut 60-59; No. 16 Iowa routed Minnesota 76­51; New Mexico topped No. 18 Texas-El Paso 70-69; Provi­dence beat No. 19 Villanova 82­76 in overtime, and South Carolina beat No. 20 Southern Mississippi 97-78. 
On Sunday, No. 6 Temple downed Rhode Island 77-70, No. 17 Syracuse routed No. 8 Mic­higan 89-71, and No.9 Kentucky beat Notre Dame 78-69. No. 6 Duke did not play over the weekend. 
Arizona 78, Illinois 70 
Tom Tolbert scored 20 points as Arizona improved its record to 20-1. 
Illinois, 14-6, led twice early in the game, but a 3-pointer by Steve Kerr put Arizona ahead 
r...-.--.-..·.-.-·-~-----.--------·~ 
1 Applications for Theodore's I 1 Student Managers for the I 1 1988-1989 school year will be I 1 available in the Student t Activities Office If I after Feb. 5. They must 
L---~l!!~~QJ.!!._b_y_E~il:_2~~-'1 
* 

Best Wishes 
& 
Love, 
Dave 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 
Introductory Session For the May 1988 CPA Examination 
Monday, February I, 1988 
6:30p.m. -7:30p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
To Re,qister or for additional information Call or Visit: 
Executive Programs Division 
1.36 Hayes Healy 
2.39-5285 


COUEGE OF BUSINESS 
for good 11-10. The Illini trailed by only five points with 4:56 left, but Arizona surged to a 73­63 lead with 1 : 26 remaining. 
Kerr scored 17 points. Illinois was led by Lowell Hamilton, who scored all of his 21 points in the second half. 
Indiana 82, Purdue 79 
Purdue, which rallied from a 21-point first-half deficit, had a chance to win after Garrett put Indiana ahead 80-79 with a short jumper. But Tony Jones was called for traveling with two seconds left and Indiana scored at the buzzer. 
The Boilermakers fell to 17-2 overall and 6-1 in the Big Ten Conference, while Indiana im­proved to 11-6 and 3-4. 
Tar Heels 73, Ga. Tech 71 
Jeff Lebo scored North Carolina's last 15 points with five 3-point field goals, spark­ing the Tar Heels over the visit­ing Yellow Jackets in the Atlan­tic Coast Conference. 
Vandy 92, Florida 65 
Will Perdue scored 19 points and grabbed 15 rebounds as Vanderbilt beat its third Top 20 opponent this season. 
The Commodores, who pre­viously defeated North Carolina and Kentucky, hit all 23 of their free throws in the Southeastern Conference game. Vanderbilt improved to 13-4 overall and 6-3 in the SEC, while Florida fell to 15-5 and 6-2. 
Providence 82, Villanova 76, OT 
Eric Murdock's 3-point bas­ket snapped a tie with 1:21 left in overtime as Providence broke a five-game losing streak with a victory over visiting Vil­lanova. 
New Mexico's Charlie Thomas (top left) and Jimmy Rogers (bottom) battle UTEP's Antonio Davis for a rebound at their WAC showdown Saturday. New Mexico won 70-69. 
Fredrick 
continued from page 16 
be very aware of where Connor and Fredrick are," Sutton said. "We let him get away a few times today. He played a very good game." 
But Fredrick was far from satisfied. A mistake in his friendly rivalry with Chapm.an and his team's loss stuck out' when he went over.the game. 
"He beat me pretty good," . said the Cincinnati, Ohio, na­tive. "He curled around the screen and I should have cut him off but I lost him. 
"We need to do those kinds of things better. It's costing us now, but we'll be ready in March." 
Notre Dame (69) 
M  FG·A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Connor  16  1·3  0·0  1  1  3  
Paddock  20  0·1  0·0  4  0  0  
Voce  38  8·12  2·2  2  3  18  
Rivers  34  7-17  6-7  3  3  21  
J. Jackson  34  3·5  4-4  3  4  1 0  
Ellery  7  0·2  0·0  2  1  0  
Robinson  22  1·2  1·2  6  2  3  
Fredrick  28  6·8  2·4  2  4  14  
Singleton  10-0  0-0000  
0 26·50 15-19  25  18  67  
FG  Pet.  ·.520.  FT  Pet.  ·.789.  Team  

rebounds· 2. 3-point FG -2-7 (Connor 1·2, Voce0-1, Rivers 1·4). Turnovers·16. Assists ·12 (J. Jackson 4). Technicals -none. Kentucky (78) 
M FG·A FT-A R F P Ellis 
30 6·9 2-2 6 0 14 Bennett 36 2-8 4-4 5 3 8 Lock 26 3·6 3·3 7 2 9 Chapman 40 6·13 1·3 3 2 13 Davender 36 6·11 10-12 2 3 22 Manuel 21 4·7 0-0 2 2 8 Jenkins 7 1-2 0-0 2 0 2 Sutton 4 0·0 0-0 0 0 0 
0 28·56 20·24 0 0 76 
FG Pet. ·.500. FT Pet. ·.833. Team rebounds -2 3-point FG 2·6 (Chapman 1-3, Davender 1-3). Turnovers ·14. Assists -16 (Maunel 4). Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Kentucky 38, Notre Dame 30. A -19.502. 

...And we're· not through yet. 
Adworks has much more to keychains, bumper stickers, and offer! We design eye-catching pos­various other products. ters, flyers, and table tents to be It's not too early to start order­distributed to both campuses. ing these things for your group or 
We also handle advertising in dormitory for next year. the Observer and Scholastic (at dis­So stop by our office at 301 La­count rates). Fortune between 2:30 and 5:30pm. 
Adworks even does novelty Or call us at 9-ADW-ORKS to find products such as t-shirts, caps, out more. 

-~-­

page 14 
Streak 
continued from page 16 
this team. After we've been 
scored upon, we're not gloomy 
for long," said Sc'-~afer. "It's 
like 'Okay, so they scored. Now 
on to the face-off.' I like that." 
While Kent State stayed 

fairly close on Friday, the Sat­
urday game turned into a full­
fledged rout. 
Notre Dame had the game all 

but wrapped up by the end of 
the first period. The Irish once 
again blitzed Kent State in that 
period's closing minutes, 
scoring three times in the last 
five minutes to give Notre 
Dame a 5-1 lead. 
Mike McNeill, Hanzel, Her­

ber, Guay and Kuehl scored for 
the Irish in the first period. The 
Kent State offense, which had 
scored 11 goals in two ties with 
Notre Dame on Nov. 6-7, could 
not even come close to keeping 
pace with the Irish this 
weekend. 
Notre Dame held the Flashes 

to five goals in two games. Kent 
State junior Kirk Aldridge, who 
had 37 goals and 30 assists in 
30 games going into this 
weekend, was held to one goal 
and one assist. 
"Our goal this whole season 

was to minimize our goals­
against to under three (per 
game)," said Schafer, "and 
those five-goal weekends al­
ways help. 
After taking a breather in a 

scoreless second period, the 
Notre Dame offense, averag­
ing over six goals per game, 
went back to work. Rob 
Bankoske started the Notre 
Dame spurt with his second 
goal of the season, coming less 
then two minutes into the third 
period. After that, Kuehl 
simply overpowered an out­
manned Kent State defense, 
scoring two goals within 61 
seconds to give the Irish a 7-1 
advantage. 
Aldridge scored his lone goal 

of the weekend with 15:14 left 
in the game, then the Kent 
State massacre continued. 
Notre Dame scored three 

goals in the last minutes to win 
11-2. Bilton scored first, then 
Kuehl scored his fourth goal of 
the evening to make it 10-2. The 
final goal came from Frank 
O'Brien with just 25 seconds 
left in the game. 
One of the keys to Saturday's 

victory was Notre Dame's suc­
cess on the power play. The 
Irish had converted on barely 
30 percent of their power plays 
going into this weekend, but on 
Saturday Notre Dame scored 
four times in seven man­
advantage situations. 
"We spent some time on the 

power play this week," said Schafer. "The keys to a suc­cessful power play are being able to move the puck quickly, making accurate passes and shots coming right off the pass. At times this season, we've been guilty of killing our own power play by passing, pass­ing, passing and never shoot­ing." 
The Irish next face Air Force at the JACC on Friday and Sat­urday. Both games will start at 7:30p.m, 
Friday's Game Notre Dame 6. Kent State 3 

Kent State  1  2  0  3  
Notre Dame  3  3  0  6  
Firat Period  

KSU -Harkonen 11 (Redders) 3:33. ND -Guay 20 (Mooney, Patten) 12:58. ND -Kuehl 12 (Hanzel, Patten) 16:40. ND -McNeill 18 (Mooney, Haikola) 18:58. 
Penalties KSU -Calabrese (holding) 12:00. ND -Hanzel (interference) 12:37. 
Second Period KSU -Callari 13 (Wiljanen, McCormick) 2:39. ND -Montgomery 10 (Kuehl, Foley) 2:49. ND -Herber 7 (Bilton, Smith) 11 :22. KSU -Esposito 14 (Redders, Aldridge) 17:36. ND -Smith 4 (Bilton, Herber) 17:52. 
Penalties KSU -Redders (holding) 8:08. KSU -McCormick (high slicking) 15:11. ND -Leherr (holding) 16:59. KSU -Esposito (roughing ) 19:52. 
Third Period Penalties KSU -Redders (holding) 9:56. ND -Bemiss (holding) 
9:56. ND -Bemiss (slashing) 17:03. 
Shots on Goal Kent State 9 8 3 . 20 Notre Dame 6 15 14 . 35 
Saves -Abraham, Hoey (Kent State) 29, Madson (Notre Dame) 17. Attendance -1 ,324 
Saturday'• Game 

Notre Dame 11, Kent State 2 Kent State 1 0 1 . 2 Notre Dame 5 0 6 ·11 
Firat Period ND -McNeill 19 (unassisted) 3:04. ND -Hanzel 12 (Kuehl, McNeill) 7:52. KSU -Esposito 15 (Aldridge, Guenther) 9:33. ND -Herber 8 (Bilton) 15:16. ND -Guay 21 (Patten, Markovitz) 18:10. ND -Kuehl 13 (Foley, McNeill) 19:07. 
Penalties KSU -Redders (tripping) 6:20. KSU -Harkonen (slashing) 6:59. ND -Haikola (holding) 9:52. ND -Leherr (holding) 11 :19. KSU -Wiljanen (cross check) 
13:26. ND -Markovitz (high stick) 15:02. KSU • Redders (high stick) 16:14. KSU -Dash (holding) 17:19. 

Lay-volunteer service in Texas; 
PROFESSIONAL POSITIONS!! 
Opportunities through VESS. Contact Margaret Theisen, representative, available February 1-2 in Library Concourse or at the CSC. 
SKI i*~*****! 
VAIL, COLORADO i2~~
* ~---* 
for * .-\ '\ '. I \ I R \ \ R1 *
* -----* 
*****************
Spring Break 
5 nights in Condos $279.00 free parties 5 Days of skiing outdoor heated pool 
Last meeting to sign up will be Feb .1 7:00pm, in basement of Zahm Hall $80.00 Deposit secures a spot Come see Videotape of Vail directed by Warren Miller 
For Information call: sponsored by SUB Mike 271-9448 or Paul 283-1116 
-------~-----­

The Observer/ Brian Mast 

With Irish center Mike McNeill (22) sitting on the Steve Megargee details Notre Dame's series doorstep, Kent State tries to cover up a loose sweep of the Flames beginning on page 16. puck in action Saturday night at the Joyce ACC. 
Second Period 
Penalties ND -Montgomery (roughing) 3:13. Leherr ­o(slashing) 6:03. KSU -Callari (interference) 11:31 . KSU -Dawson (roughing) 15:29. ND -Welsch (roughing) 15:29. ND -Herber (roughing) 17:42. KSU -Busche (roughing) 17:42. 
Third Period ND -Bankoske 2 (Welsch) 1:50. ND -Kuehl 14 (Foley) 3:16. ND -Kuehl 15 (McNeill, Markovitz) 4:17. KSU -Aldridge (Presta, Calabrese) 4:46. ND -Bilton 8 (Patten) 10:24. ND -Kuehl 16 (Hanzel, Montgomery) 13:02. ND -O'Brien 4 (Haikola, Fitzgerald) 19:35. 
Penalties KSU -Dash (roughing) 3:41. ND -Foley (roughing) 
3:41. KSU -Guenther (tripping) 3:49. ND -Kuehl (cross checking) 13:03. ND -Kuehl (roughing) 13:03. KSU -Wiljanen (cross checking) 13:03. KSU • Wiljanen (roughing) 13:03. ND -Patten (cross check) 16:09. 
Shots on Goal Kent State 10 12 9 . 31 Notre Dame 18 11 15 -44 
Saves -Hoey (Kent State) 33, Madson (Notre Dame) 29. Attendance -1656 


WITH YOUR 
GETAWAY® STUDENT DISCOUNT CARD 

Imagine taking a break on a sunny tropical beach. A vacation skiing on a snow-cov6red mountain. A summer tourirg Old World Europe. A me1 norabie weekend ·visiting hc..me or a special friend. Now you can do it-and more! Enroll today in the TWA Getaway Student Discount Program. Save 10% on all TWA flights*. Travel any class, any fare*. Earn Frequent Flight Bonus miles for FREE flights and FREE upgrades. Member­ship fees from as low as $20.00 per year. 
"Some restrictions apply. See details on application form. 

See me today for all the information and your application form. 
Sean Munster 283-2265 


Monday, February 1, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
~~ PETER SELLERS WEEK What's Happening This xrc NIGHT NEWSB0fd 
Campus 
Monday 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace-Mechanical Seminar, with Professor Chiang Shih, Univer­sity of Southern California, Room 303 Cushing. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Blond Venus," 1932, BrW, 97 minutes, directed by Jesef von Sternberg, Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m. Right to Life Meeting, LaFortune Student Center. 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "The French Lieutenant's Woman," 1981, color, 123 minutes, directed by Karel Reisz, USA, 
Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Top Round of Beef Sweet and Sour Pork Fettucini Alfredo Monterey Muffin Melt 
Comics 
Bloom County 
U#ll5 THAT TIME... 1HirT L.ERY 5PECfi1L 77M~ 
IN A 1/'EMOCr<ACY ... 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~ I-lAVE 1b GIVE OJR. ~£.~1 ON PU~D MrnJJRY m~~. DID '100 00 ~0\JR 

~ 
I 
' 

5£t Dl~~ 
All#.;I~
D(iVf 
D01D 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 

YEA!t No v!JI& ter~ C/Jf/CVS 
I 1/t/1'1 1l/t. 

ot CCIJ~£. I OlD. ~~0 I'll SET tvt( ~N..f t-1~~5 ~OOR 14"LF l\1:)1( W..'l\-\ElK . 
\ 


1 
Saint Mary's 

Ground Beef with Cheese Sauce Sweet and Sour Pork 
Fettucini with Mushrooms Deli Bar 
' 

Berke Breathed 
fff?ST 01?/?tR Of 81J5fN€~5 Wf./6 A (JNANfMOU5 VO~ ON THE ''COMPKCH£N~IV£ RAP IMN 
7Tl£11TY• fiN/J THE 5TICKY Ql/€5 1TON OF VEteiFICfiTION ... 
Bill Watterson 
The Daily Crossword _ 
All Rights Reserved  
6 Rhyme  
scheme  
7 Obligation  
8 Issues  
9 Fed the fire  
10 Ecce -1  
11 Lulu  
12 Persian fairy  
14 Council city  
20 Clothing  
21 Toward the  
mouth  
24 Thrashed  
25 "This - 
all •••"  
26 Elector  
27 Hallowed  
28 Use a scythe 29 Allen or  02101188  
Frome  39 Muse of  47 Forearm bona  
30 Move  history  48 Frees  
31 Uses a  40 152  49 Robert - 
keyboard 33 Brlc-a-­ 42 Hemingway or Borgnlne  50 Polaris e.g. 51 Presage  
36 Wheel  43 Farm  52 Satchel  
mechanics  structures  53 Heraldic term  
37 Trembles  46 False god  54 Sow  
Far Side  Gary Larson  

ACROSS 1 Watering 
places 5 Fabricated 9 Boutique 
13 Slippery 14 "And so -" 15 Musical sound 16 Leather strap 17 Clergyman 18 Heb. measure 19 Grace Kelly 
movie (with 
"The") 22 Scurried 23 Indignation 24 Prance 27 Most 
expansive 32 Terrifying 
weapon 33 Amalgam 34 Biblical 
pronoun 35 Half or 
quarter 36 Surfaces 37 Transport 38 Actress Arden 39 Embrace 40 Rub 41 Remiss 43 Softens 44 Outfit a ship 45 Succor 46 Make retreat 
Impossible 55 "It's a sin to 
tell-" 56 Singer John 57 Plsclvorous 
flyer 58 Ampersands 59 Interprets 60 Formal 
procedure 61 Endure 62 Dried up 63 Skedaddled 
DOWN 1 European 2 Nobleman 3 Et­4 Set of 
conditions 5 Extinct birds 
& 1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 



"Return of the Pink Panther" \'Chicago's Premier Dance Attraction" Saturday 1 0 pm at Theodore's 
Wed. & Thurs. 
"Dr. Strangelove" Sponsored by SUB 
8 & 10 pm 
Fri. & Sat. 8 & 10 pm 
-

Sports 
Monday, February 1 , 1988

page 16 
Redskins bust Broncos for Superbowl title 
were haunted by their 39-20 loss 
downs. That broke Marcus Al­offensive noise louder than the 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Doug Wil­liams, Timmy Smith and Ricky Sanders ripped apart the Den­ver defense with a record 35­point, 356-yard second quarter as the Washington Redskins won the Super Bowl by routing the Denver Broncos 42-10 and shutting down John Elway. 
Washington spotted Denver a 10-0 lead, then came from be­hind for the seventh time in 14 wins this year to give the NFC its fourth straight lopsided vic­tory in the NFL's champion­ship game. 
It was the Redskins' second Super Bowl victory in five years. And it was an eerie reprise for the Broncos, whose coach, Dan Reeves, said they 
ND hockey pushes win streak to 10 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Before the series it was ex­pected that the Kent State hockey team would have a hard time stopping the potent Notre Dame offense this past weekend at the Joyce ACC. 
It did. 

But the Golden Flashes, who averaged over five goals a game going into this weekend, might have figured that their own high-powered scoring at­tack would produce two close games. 
It didn't. 

Notre Dame combined a furious scoring attack and a solid defense to sweep Kent State, 6-3 and 11-2, in an Amer­ican Collegiate Hockey Associ­ation series. The sweep gave the Irish a school-record 10 con­secutive wins, 18 wins in their last 19 games, a conference record of 5-1-2 and an overall record of 19-2-2·. Kent State (0­6-2, 10-19-3), lost its fourth straight, and kept its stranglehold on last place in the ACHA. 
"I know it's getting old to say this, but our guys just worked very hard," said first-year Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We're on a roll, and they're on a roll the other way." 
Kevin Harkonen scored less than four minutes into Friday's game to give Kent State an early lead. It was the only lead the Flashes would see all weekend. 
The Flashes dominated the first period, outshooting the Irish 9-6, but goals in the last 

·.... 
eight minutes by Bruce Guay, Tim Kuehl and Matt Hanzel gave Notre Dame a 3-1lead. 
Kent State closed the gap to 3-2 when Pete Calleri scored 
2:39 into the second period. Brian Montgomery answered 10 seconds later with a goal, and the Irish led 4-2. After an­other Irish goal by Bob Herber, Kent State's Mark Esposito made the score 5-3. But the Irish answered again, with Tom Smith finding the nets just 16 seconds later to close the scoring at 6-3. 
"That's one characteristic of 
see STREAK, page 14 

to the New York Giants in last INSIDE len's record of 191 set in the noise from the formation of jets
year's game, a contest in which Raiders' 38-9 rout of the that flew over Jack Murphythey led at halftime then were Redskins in 1984. Stadium at the close of the na­outgained 200-2 over the next Williams Is named Superbowl •Sanders, who caught two of tional anthem. It was equaled
20 minutes. MVP................................ page 12 
the four TD passes, had 131 by a defense that limited Elway If that was a haunting, this yards on receptions in the first to two completions in 15 at­
Record TD pass turns game
one was a possession. half and finished with a record tempts during that period,
around ........................... page 12
Consider this : 193 yards and nine receptions. sacked him four times and 
•Williams, the MVP, was The 356 yards gained by picked off three of his passes.
playing less than 24 hours after a quarter and U~e most in a Washington in the second quar­Fifty-three seconds into the root canal on a molar, and set single period in· NFL playoff ter was just 17 less than its second quarter, Williams a Super Bowl record with 340 history. They used just 5:47 to season-long average for a full threw an 80-yard 
touchdown yards on 18-of-29 passing, 306 score them and scored on five game and its six touchdowns pass to Sanders. Less than four 

in the first half. Only six other straight possessions, failing set a Super Bowl record. minutes later, it was a 27­quarterbacks have passed for only when Williams downed the 
It didn't start that way. yarder to Gary Clark, followed 300 yards in a full Super Bowl. ball on the last play of the half. The Broncos scored on their by a 58-yard TD run by Smith, 
The four TD passes by the first •Smith, a surprise starter for first offensive play, a 56-yard his first pro touchdown ; a 50­black quarterback to play in George Rogers, rushed for 131 pass from Elway to Ricky Nat­yarder to Sanders and an 8­this ultimate game tied the yards in the first half, five tiel, added three more
and yarder to Clint Didier. 
record for a Super Bowl. more than he had in the entire points on their second posses­It hardly looked like that at 
•The 35 second-quarter points regular season. He finished sion on Rich Karlis' 24-yard the start. on just 18 plays were 14 more with 204 yards in 22 carries, in­field goal.than the Super Bowl record for cluding his first two pro touch-But then came the boom, an see ROUT, page 12 
'The little things' stop Irish upset bid 
By RICK RIETBROCK Dame's day of 'almosts' the Assistant Sports Editor Irish lost a chance to tie the game. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Notre After a timeout and a LeRon Dame's inability to do "the Ellis miss, the Irish had an­little things" kept the Irish other golden opportunity to tie. from getting a big victory On a play called during the against ninth-ranked Kentucky timeout, Gary Voce was freed Sunday. Mistakes at crucial on the baseline, but he missed points blunted several Irish the layup and the Irish missed rallies and enabled the another chance to tie. Wildcats to claim a 78-69 win Davender hit a free throw in front of a Super . Sunday and Voce hit a layup to cut the crowd of 19,502 at Freedom Kentucky lead to one at 59-58, Hall. but even with some more great 
After trailing by eight at opportunities, the Irish could halftime, the Irish looked to be get no closer iQ the final five in position to make a second­minutes. half charge as they did in "I thought we made some defeating Kansas a week ago. careless mistakes in key situa­But just as Notre Dame tions," _said Notre Dame head scrapped to get into striking coach Digger Phelps. "It was distance, a bad bounce, mental obvious that we had a chance breakdown or critical mistake to tie and a chance to go ahead. kept the Irish from getting even I thought if we got the lead that with the Wildcats. it would put the pressure back 
Joe Fredrick scored four on Kentucky and David Rivers straight points to cut 57-50 Ken­could do the things that he nor­tucky lead to three with 9:25 to mally does in that situation." play. After a free throw by Ed Kentucky's lead bounced be­Davender, Fredrick hit Keith tween two and five points most Robinson to pull Notre Dame of the rest of the way. The Irish to within two. Eric Manuel then continually challenged, but missed a jumper and David Rex Chapman wouldn't allow a Rivers was able to come up Notre Dame comeback. The with the loose ball at half court. sophomore guard, who had With a clear lane to the basket, only seven points in the first 36 Rivers appeared to be in­minutes of play, answered with Irish center Gary Voce, shown In action earlier this season against decisive whether to dunk or lay Louisville, scored 18 points In a losing cause to Kentucky Sunday. 
the ball in. He did neither and Rick Rletbrock details the 78-69 loss in a play that symbolized Notre see ELLIS, page 11 
Fredrick steps forward, matches Chapman 
By RICK RIETBROCK before the game to 'be ready together and Fredrick remains "They were pressuring the Assistant Sports Editor to score' and he set me up and Chapman's friend, and fan. ball and denying the passinggot me in the flow." "We talked before the game, lanes," said Phelps. "When 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.-If told so Fredrick hit six-of-eight field it's kind of a friendly rivalry they take something away,before Sunday's Notre Dame­goals and two-of-four from the type of thing," Fredrick ex­they have to give something upKentucky game, not many free throw line. But despite plains. "I can't say enough and that was the swing to the people would have believed Joe making his biggest contribu­about Rex as a player and a weakside. That's why Fredrick Fredrick would equal Rex tion in a big game thus far, the person. I'd say he and David has such a great game." • Chapman in both points in as­frustration of the Notre Dame would be a pretty good back­"They were giving up the sists. But it happened. loss took most of the thrill out court for the Olympic team." weak side, so with Mark out, I 
With Notre Dame looking for of it for the sophomore. Fredrick, meanwhile was the guy who was in there,"other sources of scoring after "We just wanted to get the solidified his place in the Notre explained Fredrick. "I had to Mark Stevenson's disciplinary lead," Fredrick lamented. Dame backcourt. Notre Dame 
look for the shot because some­

suspension, Fredrick stepped "They've folded before, and we head coach Digger Phelps body had to come through."forward against the Wildcats thought if we could only get the didn't like the lack of scoring · Though the 14 points mayand tied a career high with 14 lead they might fold again. We from the small forward spot have surprised him, Sutton points and handed out three as­just couldn't do what we needed (Connor three, Ellery, zero) so said Kentucky respectedsists in 28 minutes of action. to do. We thought we could get he switched guard J amere Fredrick's offense. 
"With Mark out, we need them to fold again, but we Jackson to forward and kept "We told our players that some other people to pick up choked." Fredrick at guard. Both were 
when we go zone, we have to the slack a little," said Fredrick and Chapman are able to get swing passes on the Fredrick. "A lot of the credit no strangers. They have atten­weakside for some of their 
goes to David. He told me ded numerous summer camps points (Jackson ended with 10). see FREDRICK, page 13 

-



