____________, _______ 
[ACCENT: 'Amadeus' entertaining IVIEWPOINT: Contras hindered peace 


VOL. XXI, NO. 103 
Beauchamps' killer faces life jail term 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich.-A carnival worker convicted of killing the parents of Notre Dame Execu­tive Vice President Father Ed­ward Beauchamp faces man­datory life in prison. 
An Oakland County Circuit Court jury Tuesday deliberated more than two hours before finding Michael Root, 30, guilty in the Sept. 8 slayings of Edward Beau­champ, 75, and Marion Beau­champ, 74. 
Root was convicted of two counts of first-degree murder and one count of first-degree criminal sexual conduct for raping Marion Beauchamp Oakland County Prosecutor L. Brooks Patterson said. 
"Everything we were able to produce laid this case at the doorstep of Michael Root," Patterson said. "This case was built on circumstantial evidence. That's not to say we had a weak case. The defense was just absolutely incapable of explaining (the circum­stances) all away." 
see ROOT, page 6 
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1988 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NATO requests Soviet cutback

Senior Kirk Peterson gets fitted for his Senior Formal tuxedo in the Corby Room of Lafortune Student Center Wednesday, the last day for the on-campiJs fittings by Louie's Tux Shop. 
CLC rejects ND jurisdiction limit 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
News Editor 
A proposal to limit the ad­ministration's power to punish students for rules violations when off-campus was defeated Wednesday by the Campus Life Council. 
The proposal attempted to limit University jurisdiction to violations on campus, at Uni­versity sponsored events, or vi­olations when acting as an of­ficial representative of the University. Criminal offenses would also be subject to Uni­versity action, according to the proposal. 
The present policy, accor­ding to du Lac, states all rules, regulations and codes apply to students on and off-campus. 
According to this policy, stu­dents could be held account­able for the actions over spring break, said Student Senator Mike Carrigan. 
Carrigan, along with fellow Student Senators Brian Holst and Steve Viz, sponsored the proposal. 
"There should be some limit to the jurisdiction of the Uni­versity," Carrigan said. 
"When you're acting sepa­rate from the University, act­ing in a role not related to being a student," said Holst, "then your actions should not be sub­ject to discipline by Notre Dame." 
Holst said the policy in du Lac is ambiguous and un­popular with students. Novem­ber's student survey showed dissatisfaction with the policy, he said. 
Holst and Viz were the only Council members to vote in fa­vor of the proposal. 
"It wasn't thought out 
enough," said Father Wilfred 
Borden, Pangborn Hall rector. 
Students shouldn't be permit­
ted to hurt the image of the Uni­
versity even when they are off­
campus, he said. "It's 
important to protect that 
image and improve upon it," 
he said. 

"There was somewhat a con­
sensus that the jurisdiction 
policy should be looked at," 
said Student Body President 
Pat Cooke. "But the proposal 
see CLC, page 7 

Attractiveness survey reportedly a rumor 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame is the second best campus in America to find good-looking men. Or so popular campus rumors say. 
Both Playboy and Playgirl magazines, however, deny any connection to stories ranking campus students' attractive­ness. 
"There's no truth to that rumor as far as I know," said Kevin Loud, associate editor of Playgirl magazine. "We've never done a college ratings story. We're running nothing on that in the future, as far as I know." 
A spokeswoman for Playboy Enterprises also denied the rumor. "Apparently it's a rumor that colleges like to start," the spokeswoman said. She said Playboy receives several inquiries about college ratings each year. "We get enough calls that we know it's a popular rumor," she added. 
Many students believe other­wise. "It seems like it's true since everyone's been saying it," said Bill Dunn, a resident of Grace Hall who hung a ban­ner thanking Playboy for the supposed ranking. "I heard (the rumor) from a lot of dif­ferent people. 
"Someone said that Notre Dame women were ranked 152 out of 159," he added. 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -NATO leaders on Wednesday demanded huge cutbacks in Warsa.w Pact tanks and ar­tillery, and endorsed President Reagan's efforts to negotiate strategic arms reductions with the Soviet Union. 
Defining strategy for a new set of East-West negotiations, NATO leaders said Soviet con­ventional forces pose the threat of a surprise attack and must be slashed to rectify an im­balance in military strength. 
The Soviet cutbacks would entail, for example, "the elim­ination from Europe of tens of thousands of Warsaw Pact weapons relevant to surprise attack, among them tanks and artillery pieces," a NATO com­munique said. 
Meeting behind closed doors at alliance's heavily guarded headquarters, the leaders of the 16 alliance countries at­tempted to accentuate agree­ment. They did not want to highlight differences about the pace of modernizing short­range nuclear missiles left in Europe after the elimination of longer-range weapons covered by a new U.S.-Soviet arms treaty. 
According to his spokesman, Reagan quoted Benjamin Franklin, telling the NATO leaders, "If we do not all hang together, we will assuredly 
hang separately." 
Security was so strict that a 
NATO guard attempted to eject 
a reporter who asked Reagan 
a question as the leaders posed 
for a "family photo." 
Emphasizing alliance unity, 
Reagan said, "There are no 
great fundamental differences 
there. I have never seen such 
harmony and togetherness as 
we have." 
Reagan mixed NATO sum­
mitry with Middle East peace 
efforts. He ordered Secretary 
of State George Shultz to make 
a whirlwind return to the 
Middle East after the summit 
windup Thursday night to con­
tinue his efforts to set up Arab­
Israeli peace talks. 
First, Shultz will stop in Lon­don to see Jordan's King Hus­sein, and on Friday will visit Israel, Egypt and Syria, re­turning to Washington early Saturday morning. 
The NATO meeting is the al­liance's first summit since 1982. 
Accompanied by their foreign ministers, the leaders gathered at a long, walnut­brown oval table in a confer­ence room shortly after noon to hear an opening statement by Lord Carrington, NATO's sec­retary general. 

Reagan visit tickets available at JACC 
Special to the Observer director's office. Tickets are 
available for spouses on re­

Notre Dame students may quest. obtain tickets for midday The Department of ceremonies dedicating the Human Resources will dis­Rockne commemorative tribute tickets to adminis­stamp at Gate 10 of the Joyce tration and support staff ACC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. from its campus office from today, Friday, and Satur­9 a.m. to 5 p.m. today and day. Friday. With the discretion 
After Saturday, available of managers, staff tickets will be offered to the employees can be released general public. One ticket March 9 from 11:30 a.m. to will be given per ID card and 1:30 p.m. to attend the event. a student can present as Tickets are available for many as four ID's. spouses on request. 
President Ronald Reagan will speak at the ceremony. Members of the Saint Doors open at 10 a.m., mu­Mary's campus community sical entertainment begins can pick up tickets r ~ the at 11:45 a.m. and the audi­O'Laughlin Auditorium box ence must be seated by 12: 15 office from 8:30a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. p.m. on Thursday and 
Notre Dame faculty can Friday. The distribution on pick up tickets at their the Saint Mary's campus is respective deans' offices. for Saint Mary's people only Faculty not attached to a and students will be re­college or the Law School quired to show an ID for can pick up tickets from the each ticket. Faculty and Registrar's Office. Library staff can get tickets for their faculty should go to the spouses upon request. 
----------------------------~------------------­
Thursday, March 3, 1988

page 2. The Observer 
In Brief 
British politician Neil Kinnock tried to sweep his colleagues off their feet Wednesday when he serenaded them with a vacuum cleaner in the House of Commons. The opposition Labor Party leader p' ayed a few notes on the vacuum cleaner at a _ne~s conference to promote a summer concert senes m Wales, which will include a piece with the familiar domestic device. Kinnock called himself "something of maestro" on the instrument, although he admitted, "my wife would say I'm a little bit short on Hoover practice at home." -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Presidential primaries and the platfor~s of the candidates will be the topic of a speech by Pen Arnold and Donald Critchlow today at 7:30p.m. in Dillon Hall's St. Patrick Chapel. -The Observer 
Student Art Forum will meet today at 5:15p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. -The Observer 
Anti-Apartheid Network will show ."Apartheid" Part V today at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Con~ern~. The final episode in this series docu~~nts the histo:IC meeting of white South African opposition leaders with members of the African National Congress last year. -The Observer 
IBM Information Day will be today from noon to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of L~Fortune. Stud~nt Center. IBM recruiters are interested m speakmg With students in CAPP, any BBA, engineering, chemistry, physics, or math with computer. concentration or MBA with technical background. Interviews may then be sched­uled to take place at the Career and Placement Office Friday. -The Observer 
Visiting fabric artist Lenare ~avi~, will present a slide lecture on "Human and Humamsm today at 7:30 
p.m. in Room 200 Riley Hall of Art and Design. Davis is well-known for her three-dimensional stuffed figure farms, painted slide narratives and quilted wall farms. A reception will follow. -The Observer 
An Indian lunch will be served from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. today at the Center for Social Concerns. Benefits will go to the Dismas House. -The Observer 
"King and Queen of the Irish" competition will be tonight at Theodore's. -The Observer 
Nicholas Morrison will be in a faculty clarinet recital tonight at 7 in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium. He will be joined by pianist Moragh Morrison and assisted by violinist Judy Meister. The concert is free and open to the public. For more information, contact Eric Kuehner of Notre Dame's department of music at 23!$-6201. -The Observer 
Katrina Johnson, a sociologist working as a h~alth program specialist, will be the seventh Notre Dame Sociol­ogy Graduate Lecturer and will speak on "A Fifth Column Sociologist Report: Emerging Sociological Issues in Biomedical Research" today at 12:15 p.m. in Room 121 Hayes-Healy Center. -The Observer 
Third Friday Forum series on the Honor Code ~ill be Friday from 12:15 to 1 p.m. at the Center for Social 
Concerns. The faculty, Gary Kern (accounting), Suzanne Marilley (government) and Ray Sepeta (freshman year advisor), will discuss their experiences at other colleges and universities where there are honor codes. -The Obser­ver 

Design Editor . . . ..... Bernadette Shilts Copy Editor ............ Kendra Lee Morrill Design Assistant . . . . . . Alison Cocks Sports Copy Editors ...... Steve Megargee Layout Staff... . . . . Moira Fox Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Typesetters.. . ... Becky Gunderman Viewpoint Layout ... ........... Laura Manzi .................. Mike Buc Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger News Editor.. .' ............ Scott Bearby Accent Layout... . ......... Alison Cocks .......... Mark Mclaughlin Photographer.. . ....... Suzanne Poch 
Parting shots reveal 
four years 
This is my last inside column. Tomorrow I will clean my desk -a first -collect my clippings, pilfer a few promotional records and Observer notepads from the office and fade into the sun­set. 
Some editors feel compelled to use their last inside column to reminisce about the good times to wallow in nostalgia, to sigh about how they ~re going to miss everyone and everything under the dome. 
I, for one, would not dream of boring you that way. 
Instead, I would like to use my last column to bore you another way; by reflecting on what I have learned during my four years in the shadow of the dome ... 
Notre Dame administrators really do set aside an hour each day in order to concoct ideas to make life more miserable for students. 
"Domer", "Brare" and "Za" are perversities of the English language and should be banned from campus. 
Sex is overrated, but then again, so is virginity. 
Computers are the best thing that has happened to higher education in years; they give students a whole new vocabulary of excuses for not having their papers done on time. 
When you put on a jean jacket, never adjust the collar. If it is turned up leave it that way. Likewise if it is turned down. 
Sleep is for the weak. 

The first and most important step in studying is performing triage; that is, separating your work into three categories: that which can be saved if you work on it right away; that which can wait; and that which is so hopelessly messed up that you shouldn't even waste your time trying to save it -most work falls into the last category. 
Dog books lie. 
So do men from Dillon. 

Business majors are clever -up to a point. 
A liberal is someone who hasn't faced the issue yet. 
A conservative is someone who has the solution before he has heard the problem. 
No one really lives in Pasquerilla East. 
Any fool can drink shots on a Sunday night; it takes a real fool to look forward to them. 
Never trust a woman who has more than two pillows on her bed. 
................................................................ 
of learning 
Mike Naughton 
Accent Editor 


Never trust a man who has none. 
Somebody should warn freshman girls about going to SYR's with Seniors, but it won't be me. 
If you put a personal ad in The Observer that is 18" it will cost you a few hundred dollars. If I write the same thing as a column, I get paid; you figure it out. 
Coach Holtz made buying season football tick­ets a good investment; Coach Phelps is making not buying season basketball tickets an even better investment. 
Scratch a cynic and you'll find an idealist ... or a real cynic. 
There are two types of South Bend cops: those who don't like Notre Dame students and those who do something about it. 
South Bend isn't all bad; "Cheers" is on at 7 and again at 7:30pm; not very many cities can offer that kind of entertainment capacity. 
Any student who claims that he deserves every­thing he has because he earned it probably also believes that he gave birth to himself. 
Never try to live with a guy called "The Devil." Never try to work for a man called "Troll" and never, ever, try to drink with women called "fishheads." 
You can kill milk elves by spitting in your milk carton. 
One ought to depart Notre Dame as Odysseus departed from Nausicaa -blessing it rather than loving it. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
on pool tables tonight LaFortune.
!! II 
T• Olleener (USPS 599 2-4000) is publjshed Monday through Friday except durilll exam and vacation periods. ~ Oboeo-er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dune and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2~ per semester) by writilll T• Oblener, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dune, Indiana 46~~6. 
~ Olleener is a member of ~ A.aodaled P,..,... All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest?_ 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various aP?Stolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if rm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and rm not sure? 
For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
. 46556 
For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6385 



~-----~ 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 
The Observer 
a e 3 

Doctors express concern over boxing dangers 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
The annual Bengal Bouts boxing tournament has been popular for entertaining stu­dents and aiding the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh for 58 years. But the event has drawn criticism of late from physicians at Notre Dame. 
Dr.. James Moriarity, of Uni­versity Health Services, opted not to give physical examina­tions to students who partici­pate in the bouts. 
The University's athletic de­partment required Bengal Bouts participants to undergo physical examinations, Moriarity said, but added that University Health Services physicians were given the op­tion of administering the ex­ams. 
"It's strictly a voluntary thing," he said. "I just chose not to be a part of the program. That doesn't mean I won't see boxers or treat their injuries," said Moriarity. 
"There's 22 or 24 varsity sports and I approve of every one of them. I just don't like boxing," he said. "I have given physicals for kids in the Bengal Bouts. I just do not support the concept of boxing," Moriarity said. 
"I don't like the idea of people banging their heads around. But I'm not going to make an issue of the whole thing," he said, adding that other physicians share his views. 
Dr. Bernard Vagner, one of Moriarity's colleagues at Uni­versity Health Services, has been a physician for the Bengal Bouts for 11 years, but said he doesn't like boxing. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Page Editor 
Application deadline: Friday, March 4 
For further Information contact Regis Coccia or Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 
Lecture by: 


Arthur Schlesinger 
-one of America's most influential historians and cherished writers -former special assistant to President John F. Kennedy -author of The Age of Jackson, w1nner of Pulitzer Prize for history 
-author of A Thousand Dav.s: John F. Kennedy in the White House, winner of Pulitzer Prize for biography 
March 7, 1988 Washington Hall 8:00 pm Tickets $2.00 
Available at The Cellar Feb 29 -March 4 
Sponsored by Student Union Board 
"We had three broken noses before the bouts even started," Vagner said. "I covered one session. I want to do my share, 
"I admire the kids for what they are doing. When I was their age I would have done the same thing. 
it
wouldn't do knowing what I know now." 
by covering my session of the bouts. That's the way we've al­ways done it," he said, adding that other physicians take turns attending the fights. 
Injuries are very common to the activity,·vagner said. "We don't have any more injuries this year than in previous years. The more people you have boxing the more injuries you have," he said. 
Moriarity, a 1972 Notre Dame graduate, said the Ben-
J-Council 
By TIM O'KEEFE Copy Editor 
The Judicial Council elected junior Arty Feles as its new co­ordinator for the 198&119 school year Wednesday night. 
Feles said his main goal as coordinator is "to get the coun­cil recognized by the student body." This would be done, in part, by "letting more students know who their (judicial board) chairman is and what gal Bouts were very popular in past years. "It was there then, but it generated as much con­troversy as it does today," Moriarity said. 

This year Bengal Bouts has more participants than ever, said Richard O'Leary, non­varsity athletics liaison, who has helped run the event for the last 18 years. 
"It's been up and down the last 18 years we've been with it. The last two years have been booming years," said O'Leary. 
"I am anti-boxing," Vagner said. "It's supposed to be the manly sport of self-defense. But people are headhunters (in the bouts)," he said. "They have more bloody noses out there than you can shake a stick at. They don't have enough time to learn defense. It's all offense.'' 
Safety is a major concern of the Bengal Bouts' promoters, he said. "We've got to keep in mind we're not talking about professional boxing,'' 0 'Leary said. "We can control the two (fighters) and r~iake sL..7e they're adequat('.iy trained." 
O'Leary said inexperienced students who •'-'ant to partici­pate in the bouts are required to enter a four-week novice training program in the fall, followed by six to seven weeks of ring training prior to the event. 
"We're wearing bigger headgear and there's much more protection. The gloves are bigger," O'Leary said. "We are sponsoring both sides. We're not trying to sacrifice anybody for a win for our team," he said. 
"We do have better equip­ment and that has changed," O'Leary said. "Better equip­ment has been developed for amateur boxing and we're cer­tainly taking advantage of that." 
Vagner said he can under­stand why students want to par­ticipate in the Bengal Bouts. "I admire the kids for what they are doing. When I was their age I would have done the same thing. But I wouldn't do it knowing what I know now,'' he said. 
"I'll do the job that I'm hired to do here," Vagner said. "But I just don't like boxing." 
elects chairman 
the Judicial Council is," he 1, replacing current coordina­sairl tor Brendan Judge. 
Feles will also have to deal The Judicial Council is made with the Office of Student Af­up of the judicial board chair­fairs. He said he will "respect men from each dorm. It meets what they have to say," but about once a month, and tries added, "you have to make sure "to foster awareness of student that ... students' rights aren't rights," said Judge. "The pri­violated." mary responsibility of the co­
Running against Feles was ordinator is to serve as the un­junior Tara Gerard. In his first dergraduate students' act as coordinator-elect, Feles counsel," according to Judge. appointed Gerard as the assis­Next year, the Judicial Coun­tant coordinator for next year. cil will also be reviewing Du 
Feles will take office on April Lac, said Judge. 
\.. 

Low fares are anything but a passing fad on the Midway Con11ection~Catch the ConnectionSM to convenient Chicago Midway Airport or beyond. You'll find quick, hassle-free connections to 
any of our 28 other destinations. So for flights with lower fares, and more leg room than you see here, call1-800-621-5700, 
or call your travel agent. 
Midwa Connection~ 
--~~----------------------------------~ 
Midway Airlines• serves AUanta, Boston, Chicago (Midway), Cleveland, Columbus, Dallas/A. Worth, Denver. Des Moines, Detroit, A. Lauderdale, Ft. Myers, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Las Vegas, Miami, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Nassau, New Orleans, New York (La Guardia), Omaha, Orlando, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Phoenix, St. Croix, V.I., St. Thomas, V.I., Tampa, Washington, D.C. (National), and West Palm Beach. 
The Midway Connection• serves Benton Harbor, Bloomington/Normal. Champaign/Urbana. Dubuque, Elkhart. Grand Rapids, Green Bey. Indianapolis, Madison, Muskegon, Peoria, South Bend, Springfield, IL, Traverse City, Waterloo. c 1958Midway Alrllnes.lnc 
page 4 The Observer 
College Briefs .: -... 
A West Point cadet with a 3.6 GPA says he was kicked out of the academy be­cause he-refused, as an upperclassman, to haze freshmen. At the academy, upperclas­smen are required to enforce the "Fourth Clas~ System," where plebes are forced to do things like walk at a quick pace around the campus and eat at a position of attention. The upperclass cadet refused to participate in this and was dismissed from the school. 
-The National On-Campus Report 
The Purdue band director William Moffit leads exercise sessions at a Lafayette, IN, shopping mall. Marching to the tune, "Music Makes Me Healthy," people follow Moffit's directions in the vigorous arm movements of a conducting band. -The National On­Campus Report 
"Sexist" is how many students describe the Dartmouth alma mater. The lyrics in­clude references to the "sons" and "brot­hers" of Dartmouth, a school which went co-ed in 1972. University president James Freedman is considering suggestions to change the 80-year old tune. -The National On-Campus Report 
Campaigning for candidates has always been something students have gotten in­volved in, but at Brown University, one stu­dent has a very important interest in the race. Kara Dukakis, daughter of Democratic presidential hopeful Mike Dukakis, has been helping her dad both at Brown and at high schools and colleges in New Hampshire, Iowa, and Minnesota. -The National On­Campus Report Co-ed hot tubs have been given a brief reprieve at Ricks College in Idaho. Adoption of a rule restricting men and women from sharing hot tubs has been delayed because of complaints from the only hot tub owner in town. The rule states that hot tubs at college-approved residence buildings must be far enough apart to "secure the privacy and integrity of the users." -The National On-Campus Report 
The Kansas SupremeCourtrecently ruled that the University of Kansas was not responsible for the injuries a student sus­tained in a sledding accident on campus. The student, who filed a $5 million lawsuit, hit a tree and fractured his back, requiring two sugeries. He remains in a wheelchair. The court ruled that the popular sledding hill is a recreational area, and cited state law that exempts "government entities from respon­sibility for injuries that occur on recreational areas unless negligence can be proved." -The National On-Campus Report 
Rules against demonstrations on campus at Auburn do not violate students' constitu­tional rights, a federal judge has ruled. The ruling was in response to a lawsuit filed by the Auburn Alliance for Peace and Justice on behalf of 11 students who, after holding an all-night silent vigil on campus to protest aid to the Contras, were reprimanded by the University. Auburn's rules limit public gath­erings to between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. -and only with prior university appeal. -
Thenational On-Campus Report 

Thursday, March 3, 1988 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Mike Houston tests his vertical leap at the Stepan basketball courts in preparation for the Bookstore tournament. 
Sky-high 

ND study links aging and diet 
Associated Press While the connectiOn be­tween longer life and reduced SOUTH BEND -A broad-eating was made 50 years ago, ranging study of rats that lived the Lobund study may explain 
significantly longer on restricted diets may provide deeper understanding of the ef­fects of food on aging, says a University of Notre Dame re­
searche~;. 
· The four-year study will con­clude March 27, when more than 30 scientists from the United States and Canada will meet at Notre Dame to present their findings, said Dr. Morris Pollard, a pathologist and director of Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory. 
The Lobund Aging Project is an unprecedented attempt to study food intake and aging from a variety of medical specialties, Pollard said Wed­nesday. 
Although some of the re­search remains incomplete, early results indicate rats that ate less lived longer and suf­fered from fewer diseases as­sociated with old age, he said. 
why, Pollard said. "We think this study will contribute sub­stantially to a better under­standing of the mechanism of dietary restriction," he said. 
All the animals in the study 

ate the same food -a high-fiber, 
low-fat vegetarian diet -but 
some were given less. 
The rats that were fed 30 per­

cent less lived an average of 38 
months, an increase of nearly 
20 percent above normal, ac­
cording to study results. 
Several rats lived more than 40 
months and one rat lived 50 
months, Pollard said. · The rats on restricted diets were healthier in their old age, developing fewer cancers of the prostate and liver. Prelim­inary results also indicate rats on restricted diets suffered less disease of the heart and brain and had better-functioning im­mune systems, Pollard said. 
The keynote speaker for the March symposium, Dr. Jacob 
The findings may have Brody, the dean of the Univer­signficance for humans, too, sity of Illinois School of Public who tend to develop similar dis-Health in Chicago, says 70 per­eases as they age, he said. cent of Americans survive to 
~...............................................................................................~ 
I 
! ~i  "TilE MOST WELCOME SURPRISE OF TilE SUMMER:' -M<haol """""'·SNEAK F'REW:Wi  ! '-! ~  
I ~  M 1M~  I ~  
I ~ ~ ~  ~­FR  l=t":'£"tt'CO:,~f Tonight EE OF CHARGE  ~ ~ I~  

at Theodore's 9:30 ~ 
age 65, compared with 25 per­cent in 1900. 
The growing numbers of older people make related medical studies more impor­tant, Pollard said. "It's ex­tremely important to do research on aging, not only to prolong life, but to improve the quality of life," he said. 
Financal aid turned you down, but you $ still need a job on campus. $ 
The Observer can solve your problem. We are currently looking for committed, dependable, and diligent students to typeset once a week. Please contact Mark Ridgeway by March 11th for more information. 
$ $ 
Hear Ye! Hear Ye! 
King and Queen 'o the Irish Competition Tonight Theodore's 8:00 pm 
loyal subjects come and support your dorm representative in his or her quest for the crown. They'll compete in outrageous competitions: Irish jig, Irish joke-telling, Irish limericks, and chug-a-mug of Irish(root)beer. 
Vote for your favorite this week with pennies on the first floor of LaFortune. 
*****Celebrity Judges Tony Rice, Digger Phelps, and Pat Cooke***** 


l ................................................................................................'4 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 
The Observer a e 5 


~~------------------------~~® 
Now you can have two delicious, 10", 12" or 14" pizzas for one 

Call Us! 
special price. They're custom· made with your choice of toppings South Bend on each-they don't have to be 277-2151 the same! And we use only the 1835 South Bend Ave. finest ingre:oients and 1 00% real dair1 cheese. Hours: 
4:30pm-1am Sun.-Thurs. You're not seeing double. It's just 4:30pm-2am Fri. & Sat. our latest way to say that Domino's P1zza Delivers®. And w.e deliver at Additional items no additional charge in 30 minutes Pepperoni, mushrooms, or less. That's the Domino's Pizza olives, onions, green peppers, 
guarantee .. ground beef, sausage, ham, 
bacon, double cheese, and Domino's Pizza Doubles extra thick crust. Two 10" cheese pizzas $6.29 1 0" Doubles $1.09 per item Two 12" cheese pizzas $8.39 12" Doubles $1.49 per item Two 14" cheese pizzas $10.49 14" Doubles $1.69 per item 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers Prices do not include carry less than $20.00. applicable sales tax. 
r·--------------, r---------------,
I I~---------------~ I 
I I I
Think I I Think Think I I I I
Thick I I Thick Thick I I I I
$5.00 I I $5.00 $5.00 I I
Just $5.00 for a 12" pizza I Just $5.00 for a 12" pizza Just $5.00 for a 12" pizza I
I

with thick crust, extra 1 with thick crust, extra with thick crust, extra 1
I

cheese. and pepperoni. 1 cheese, and pepperoni. cheese, and pepperoni. 1
I

Good on Thursday only. 1 Good on Thursday onlY,. Good on Thursday only. 1 Not valid with any other 1 I I Not valid with any other Not valid with any other 1 offer. One coupon per 1 offer. One coupon per offer. One coupon per 1
I

order. 1 order. order. 1
I 

I I I I
Fast, Free Delivery ·• Fast, Free Delivery·· Fast, Free Delivery'" 
I I I I I I
ill® Expires: 3/3/88 ill® Expires: 3/10/88 Expires~ 3/31/88 Vahdat partiCipating stores only. I Valid at participating stores only. Valid at partici;>allng stores only. I 
I I :. I
·II

Customer pays applicable sales I Customer pays applicable sales ® Customer pays applicable sales I 
tax. tax. tax.
I I I I I 
«:> 1988 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
~-------~-------~
~---------------~ ~---------------~ 

-
Thursday, March 3, 1988

page 6 The Observer 

Junior Colleen McGillis helps Amanda, a patient at as part of a psychology class, Behavior Change and 
the Northern Indiana State Hospital, identify shapes Mental Retardation. and symbols. Notre Dame students volunteer at NISH 
Rights bill sent to 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House overwhelmingly passed a landmark civil rights bill Wed­nesday that would broaden protections for women, minorities, the elderly and the handicapped. President Reagan has vowed to veto the measure. 
The Civil Rights Restoration Act, considered by many law­makers the most significant civil rights measure in 20 years, was sent to the White House on a 315-98 vote. The Sen­ate passed it by an equally lop­sided 75-14 vote in January. 
Both chambers passed the bill by the two-thirds margin needed to override a presiden­tial veto, but it was unclear 
Root 
continued from page 1 
Root, a Lakeview, Mich. na­tive whose last known address was Youngstown, Ohio, faces mandatory life imprisonment on each murder count and up to life in prison on the rape charge, Patterson said. Root was returned to the Oakland County Jail pending a March 16 
"/believe THE PRODIGAL mdy be rhe mosr powerful film ever mdde ro reilch people for Chrisr." 
-1111/y Gr•h•m 
"How long I've longed for films of rhis cdliber robe produced­the red/ism of rhe sroty line-rhe didlogue-rhe relevilncy ofrhe lyrics of rhe songs-d/1 ofirIs firsr cldSs-plus rhe incredible 
mesSdge... .-Joyce I.MJdod, Aurhor 
"THE PRODIGAL is "profound commentdty on our presenr condldon... " mirror In which we ilfl see ourselves. lr Is il Chrlsridn film In rhe besr and deepesr sense. I hope ilnd prdy ir will redch d wide .1udlence." 
-aev. Donn D. Moom.1w Bel Air Presbyterian Church Los Angeles. Cdlifomlil 
lHE 

PIIIJDI&Al 
A WORLD WIDE PlcnJRES RElfASE 
PRESENTED BY: CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP 19525 Pendle Road 2n-8471 
whether the huge margins would hold up following Reagan's vow Wednesday to reject the measure. 
The restoration act was de­signed to reverse a 1984 Su­preme Court decision that nar­rowed the scope of four major civil rights laws meant to prevent taxpayer-financing of discrimination. 
Supporters of the act said hundreds of discrimination complaints had been dropped or restricted since the decision. 
"We have suffered far too long in waiting for this great and important day," said Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich. 
In letters delivered Wednes­day to seve~al House Republicans, Reagan said flatly he will veto the measure 
sentencing hearing before Cir­cuit Judge Robert Anderson, the prosecutor said. 
Police arrested Root and a female companion Sept. 13 in rural Macosta County, five days after a neighbor found the Beauchamps' bodies in their bed in their Ferndale home. 
The Beauchamps' car was found where the two had been staying, officials said. 
Friday, March 4 6:30PM Call if you need a ride. 

Reagan 
"if it is presented to me in its current form." 
In the letters, sent from Brus­sels, Belgium, where Reagan is attending a NATO summit, the president said the bill "dramatically expands the scope of federal jurisdiction over state and local govern­ments and the private sector" and "poses a particular threat to religious liberty." 
In the case brought by Grove City (Pa.) College, the Su­preme Court held in a 6-3 opinion that Title IX -a law bar­ring sex discrimination in federally funded education pro­grams -applies only to specific programs or activities receiv­ing federal assistance and not the institutions of which they are part. 


ND '61
ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines heers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
I /'2.') NOHH1 IHONWOOD DH. SOUTH .BEND. IN 4<i635 
ALL AMERICAN STORAGE 
5213 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 272-4434 
-1/4 mile South of University Park Mall, next to Circle Lumber -Reserve your space with us NOW! -Managers on-site -Electronically controlled gate with 24 hour access -All sizes available 
Noriega, continue 
Associated Press 

PANAMA CITY, Panama ­An opposition leader said Wed­nesday that Gen. Manuel An­tonio Noriega was purging his army of suspected opponents, and doctors joined businesses in a general strike aimed at ousting the military strongman. 
Guillermo Cochez, a national legislator and vice president of the opposition Christian Dem­ocratic Party, told reporters that Noriega apparently had fired two senior colonels and two majors suspected of being disloyal. 
Cochez said they included Col. Marcos Justines, who as chief of staff was No. 2 in the Panamanian Defense Forces and next in line to succeed Noriega. 
A spokesman for the Panama Canal Commicsinn said 
Study finds one in 500 babies with AIDS virus 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -A study of Massa­chusetts women who gave birth found that one in 500 was in­fected with the AIDS virus, and researchers projecting their findings nationwide say several thousand AIDS-infected babies could be born in the United States each year. 
Most surveys of AIDS infec­tion have concentrated on male homosexuals, drug addicts and others at high risk of catching the disease. Estimating the prevalence of the virus in the general population has . been difficult. 
"This paper gives a more ac­curate way to judge the scope of the epidemic in women," said Dr. Rodney Hoff. "Noth­ing else comes close to this in being able to measure the prev­alence in the United States." 
SELF 
Delvalle struggle 
anonymous telephone callers warned both Tuesday and Wed­nesday that a bomb had been planted in the commission's headquarters. 

Spokesman Franklin Castrellon told The Associated Press that the building, next to the waterway, was evacuated and searched both days but that no bombs were found. 
In Washington, William Rogers, a lawyer for a Panamanian opposition group, said the State Department was preparing to notify U.S. banks where the Panamanian gov­ernment has deposits not to conduct any transactions with Noriega's regime. 
Cochez said he could not "ab­solutely confirm" the firings, but several diplomatic sources said they also had heard the reports and tended to believe them. 

Hoff directed the study at the Massachusetts Department of Public Health using tiny samples of blood routinely drawn from babies to check for phenylketonuria, or PKU, and other diseases. 
The study found that one of every 476 women giving birth, or 2.1 for each 1,000, were in­fected with the AIDS virus. However, this varied greatly, depending on where they lived. 
At three inner-city Boston hospitals, eight per 1,000 were infected. In suburban and rural hospitals, just under one per 1,000 carried the virus. 


CENTER FOR SPIRITUAliTY 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 
The Fourth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
"Women and Teaching: Themes for a Spirituality of Pedagogy" 
Maria Harris Nationally-regarded writer. lecturer and . authority on education 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
Admission free 

For further information, contact Center for Spirituality 
219/284-4636 

---tit--­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME·· I NOlANA 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 
Notre Dame announces grants 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre 
Dame received $3,487,116 in 
grants during January for 
the support of research and 
various programs. Re­
search funds totaled 
$3,063,009, including: 
-$2,343,000 from the U.S. De­
partment of Transportation 
for research by William 
Berry, professor of electri­
cal engineering, on a cold 
weather transit technology 
program. 
$196,321 from the National 
Institutes of Health for re­
search by Thomas Nowak, 
professor of chemistry, on 
NMR studies of metals in 
kenases and related en­
zymes. 
-$169,190 from the National 
Science Foundation for fast 
beam research by Stephen 
Lundeen, associate profes­
sor of physics. 
-$110,220 from the National 
Institutes of Health for re­
search by Anthony Serianni, 
assistant professor of 
chemistry, on biologically 
important furanosyl rings. 
-$70,752 from Purdue Univer­sity for research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aero­space and mechanical engineering, on stuctural dynamic response. -$68,000 from the U.S. Army for research by Thomas Fehlner, chairman and pro­fessor of chemistry, on metallaboranes as precur­sors to metallic glasses. 
-$90,000 from the U.S. Navy for research by Yih-Fang Huang, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Ruey-Wen Liu, professor of electrical engineering, on intelligent signal processing. -$78,213 from the National Science Foundation for neutron studies of diluted magnetic semiconductors by Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics. -$73,000 from Purdue Univer­sity for research by Fur­dyna, Marquez professor of physics, on diluted magnetic semiconductors. 
-$51,068 from the U.S. Navy for research by Kathie New­man, associate professor of physics, on phase transitions in semiconductor alloys and structures. -$20,123 from the National In­stitutes of Health for re­search by John Borkowski, professor of psychology, and Scott Maxwell, associate professor of psychology, on metacognition, motivation and inefficient learning. 
-$20,000 from the Universal Energy System for research by Billie Spenser, assistant professor of civil engineeri­ng, on the stochastic model of fatigue crack growth. -$15,000 from Jet Propulsion Laboratory for research by Panagiotis Antsaklis, asso­ciate professor of electrical engineering, on models for higher level adaptation. -$12,756 from the U.S. Air Force for research by Step­hen Batill, associate profes­sor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, on parametric identification for aerospace structure. -$12,500 from the Lilly En­dowment Inc. for work by David Leege, professor of government and interna­tional studies, and Father Robert Pelton, director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, on phase three of the IPSM parish study. -$5,000 from NASA for re­search on vortex control by Robert Nelson, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Tsun-eMing Terry Ng, assistant professor of aero­space and mechanical engineering. -$500 from the Aspen In­stitute for research by Ken­neth Jameson, professor of economics, on a paper on the universal E-911 law in Mic­higan. 
-$66,600 from the National In­stitutes of Health for re­search by George Craig, Clark professor of biological sciences, on factors affect­ing vector competence in the mosquito Aedes triseriatus. 
,-·--·-NI)-1\VE·-xp·Ts.----, l l~arly Bird Special I 
t Now· renting for Fall I 1 2 Bedrooms completely furnished I 1 Sign up before break and Call I I receive a 10o/o discount 234-6647 I 
l.!.~!:~.~-?1.~~:!.!.2.~!.e..:~~-~!.~~!L.J 


"Paddy's Racket" celebrates St. Patrick's Day a wee at "Irish Pub Night" at Theodore's. bit early Wednesday night, playing their Irish music 
Campaign heats the South 
Associated Press 

Sen. Bob Dole, bidding to make up ground in the South, said Wednesday the United States should react in any way necessary "including military force" to protect its interests in Panama and the Canal Zone. 
Michael Dukakis began airing a new television com­mercial attacking Richard Gephardt and turning his Dem­ocratic rival's populist rallying cry -"It's your fight, too" -on its head. 
The advertisement says Gep­hardt is taking campaign con­tributions from "big establish­ment power brokers," and adds, "Kinda makes you wonder, is Dick Gephardt fight­ing your fight or theirs?" 
Dole and Vice President George Bush swapped fresh at­tacks in new television com­mercials as the campaign in­tensified for support in a critical round of Southern pri­maries on Super Tuesday next week. 

Fresh public opm10n polls gave Bush a large lead in Texas and Florida, the states with the two biggest delegate prizes in next week's festival of prima­ries. Aides to Dole conceded the outlook is generally bleak for their man from one end of Dixie to the other. 
"We hope to bounce back the following week," in the Illinois primary, said one aide, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. "We'll be heavy in Illinois. I think if Dole doesn't win Illi­nois, it's just about over." 
But Dole sought the offensive during the day, saying the United States should "just say no" to Panamanian strongman Manuel Noriega, indicted in this country on drug charges. 
Campaigning in Louisiana, he suggested there might be some connection between Bush's tenure as head of the CIA and rumors that Noriega had been on the spy agency payroll. He refused to elabo­rate, but said he would have a major announcement at a drug conference in Washington D.C. on Thursday. 
In cooler climes, former tele­
vtswn evangelist Pat 
Robertson ran away with a 2­
to-1 victory over the GOP field 
in the Alaska caucuses that 
ended Tuesday night, claiming 
47 percent of the vote to 24 per­
cent for Bush and 20 percent 
for Dole. 
But Alaska's 19 GOP delegates weren't much of a prize stacked up against 712 Republican delegates and 1,307 Democratic delegates in next week's Super Tuesday round of balloting concentrated in Southern and border states. 
Robertson's lawyer said Wednesday the GOP presiden­tial candidate is ready to "pay a substantial amount of court costs" in dropping his libel suit against a former congressman who accused Robertson of avoiding combat duty in the Korean War. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
wasn't the correct answer to the jurisdiction policy." 
''Many members of the Coun­cil felt Notre Dame rules should apply to some extent off­campus," he said. "They felt the proposal ties the hands of Notre Dame by saying it could only act on a criminal offense." 
He said, however, there was a general consensus in the Council that the policy is too broad and should be reworded. 
"I think the spirit of the pro­posal is fine," said Farley Hall rectress Mary Luise Gude. "I think that the thing written up was not adequate." She said, however' the policy should utili be studied. "It was a good first start." 
Carrigan said he and Holst would work on a compromise proposal. 
At most schools similar to Notre Dame, Carrigan said stu­dents cannot be punished by ad­ministrators for off-campus of­fenses. At schools where policies allow such punish­ment, he said policies are not enforced. 

SObering Advice·.: cansavealife~~ 1 Think Before You Drink ,~~Before You Drive .:~ - 
1988 SUMMER SESSIONS BROCHURES Now Available Courses offered In areas of: Arts & Sciences Business Education Professional Studies For more Information, call or write: xavier University Summer Sessions 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, Ohio 45207 (513) 745-3601 xav1er Umvers1ty 1s an academiC community comm111ed to equal opportunity for all persons regardless of age. sex, race. rehg1on, handicap. or nat1onal or~g1n  

Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, March 3, 1988 
P. 0. Box Q 
Cuntras hindered peace process 
Editor's Note: The following is the fourth in a series offive that will coin­cide with President Reagan's visit to 
campus. 
Dear Editor: 
"The Contras are effective because they force the Sandinista government to the bargaining table to negotiate a peaceful resolution." I would like to suggst that this belief held by both the White House and much of the American public fails to consider Nicaragua's wil­lingness to peacefully negotiate with the United States before the Contra movement developed into a full-scale war. 
In 1982, Nicaragua formulated a 13­point proposal to the U.S. demonstrat­ing its willingness to sever ties with the Salvadoran guerrillas, limit its armed forces, and allow international verifica­tion of compliance with these points. 
In July of 1983, Daniel Ortega again expressed his willingness to end Nicaraguan support of the rebels in El Salvador and prohibit foreign military bases on its territory if its own security could be guaranteed. In September of that same year, Nicaragua gave com­plete support to the Contadora initiative and its 21 points. 
In October of 1983, Nicaragua drew up four treaties to the U.S. and Central American governments which would have prevented foreign military bases in Nicaragua and prohibited the flow of arms to subversive movements in other countries. The Contadora countries would stop buying arms and would ask all foreign military advisers to leave if the other Central American governments would do the same. 
It appeared that Nicaragua was ready to discuss two vital concerns of the U.S.: the flow of arms to the Sal­vadoran insurgents and Soviet and Cuban presence in Central America. 
The U.S. responded to these proposals by announcing a massive military maneuver (Big Pine II) with Honduras in 1983. The CIA also spon­sored the destruction of Nicaraguan oil storage facilities and the mining of three of its harbors (only .to have the 
U.S. refuse to recognize the jurisdiction of the World Court when Nicaragua pre­sented its case.) 
In September of 1984, Nicaragua an­nounced that it would sign the Con­tadora draft treaty. However U.S. pres­sure on El Salvador, Honduras and Costa Rica to object to some if its provi­sions prevented further action on the treaty. 
To say that the Contras force the San­dinistas to the bargaining table implies that the Sandinistas were unwilling to sit at the table in the first place. They were willing. 
David Gaus Pax Christi-Notre Dame February 26, 1988 
Look beyond tastebuds 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Dennis Corrigan's article which detailed his extreme displeasure with the Univer­sity's food policy regarding omission of meat on Fridays. Perhaps Dennis' pro­vided alternative that he leave school should be acted upon. Although February in South Bend can be tough, what Notre Dame certainy does not need is to publish moaners without due cause. Is the University prohibiting any great freedom by not serving meat for six or seven days out of a year? I think not. If we look beyond our tastebuds to reflect on the reasons behind the abstinence, it becomes clear this sym­bolic act is rooted in love. We should count our blessings and not our "restrictions." You who reflect and still believe otherwise, please let me know 
and  I  will  send  you  money  for  
McDonald's.  
John Gibbs  
Class of 1986  

Februaru 29, 1988 
JPW parents express joy 
Dear Editor: 
This Junior Parents' Weekend was our fourth in just five years. Each of them was as unique as our two daughters and sons. 
While driving home we attempted to analyze the specialness of this particu­lar weekend and to try to explain the deep emotion that we were both feeling. 
Was it because this would be our last JPW? Was it because we somehow felt we had triumphed over the physical ele­ment of "lake-effect" snow for two days? Or perhaps it was the strong af­fection we were feeling for the friends of our daughter. We concluded that it was three things that really accounted 

. for this wonderful peace. 
With Kevin Hurley and his parents in our midst we all not only felt inspired and humbled, but we also experienced a confirmation of the healing power of Jesus Christ, and an answer to months of our prayers, as well as a demonstra­tion of the dedication of parental love as evidenced in Celeste and Dick Hur­ley. 
The affable man affectionately known as "Monk" was accessible to all of us this weekend. The warmth of his handshakes, his hugs and his words touched our hearts deeply. 
And last, it was the realization by two parents that their youngest child has an ease and a joy in giving love to others that is truly a special gift. 
Marilyn and Frank Woidat St. Charles, IHinois February 25, 1988 
Mock Convention needs delegates 
Dear Editor: 
The week of April 11-14 will offer a unique experience to the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This year, as with every four years since the be receiving a letter and a delegate ap­plication in the mail. Why not fill it out? 
Brian R. McCarthy Press Secretary Mock Convention '88 February 28, 1988 

Alumni services available at Padre 
Dear Editor: 
Spring Break! Once again it is time 
to finalize all details concerning this 
annual southern migration. .:For the 
fifth consecutive year the Student 
Union Board has invited the Notre 
Dame-Saint Mary's College 
Alumni(ae) Associations to participate 
in the official student trip. 
We will be headquartered in the mall 
at Sunchase (];2 block North of the Hil­
ton), 1004 Padre Blvd, South Padre Is­
land, Texas. The Hospitality-Informa­
tion Center will be open 10 a.m. to 9:30 
p.m. each day of break, March 13-20. As in past years we will provide com­plimentary Coca-Cola products, long distance phone calls, orange juice and newspapers as well as the student locator file, message exchange board and information regarding local events and trips to Mexico. 
Please stop in and see us and take advantage of our services. We look for­ward to serving you during Spring Break '88. 
Charles F. Lennon, Jr. '61,'62 
Executive Director 
Alumni Association 
March 1. 1988 

1920s, the student government will r-=::-----=:-:----------:----t 
again be sponsoring a Mock National Convention. This convention will be a 
scaled-down model of the actual Dem­ocratic National Convention to be held in Atlanta this summer. What the Con­
vention needs now is delegates. The delegates to the Convention will all be NotreDameandSaintMary'sstudents. Thedelegateswillhavetheopportunity
to represent the views of the combined student bodies, to vote on the adoption 
of the Convention platform, which has ....._-----=----"--------.....! been drawn up totally by students, and C t· 
to select presidential and vice presiden-0 r r e C I 0 n : tial candidates. Top Democratic offi-Due to a printing error on Wednes­cials from across the country have been day, a name did not appear with a letter invited to address the convention. The to the editor. The author of the letter Convention will provide students with was Dr. David Pilgrim who is in the an opportunity to express their political department of sociology at Saint views, learn how a convention operates Mary's. and have lots of fun. All students wm'---------------____J 
The Observer retains the right tO edit all let­
ters and COlumns SUb­mitted for print. Please 
note the more COncise the letter, the more likely itS chances Of 
reaching print. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
TH& Of/TS/PER. 5POKt, .4 8.4ND "{)()Ni 813 ALARM&D;' 5AIO ITHC. 70/I.JNSFOI..I<. W&Re HESITANT.' M&M8!3R.S OF 
Of 30 MORE Of35P8RAD05 TH& OlfT$1{)&1< R&A5$URJNGLY... CONGR&S5l QIJIC.TL-Y $HUFF/.&/) INTO 70/I.JN. TOUGH­
I
lOOKIN' 
NeXT: /IJI/..L. TH/3
8UNCH Of .-.rn-> 
MCM813RS TAK&
HOM8~··f% 
TH& LA/A/ INTO 7Ht!R OWNHANfJS? 

Quote of the Day 
"Believe you are defeated, believe it long enough, and it is likely to become a fact." 
Norman Vincent Peale 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief .......... .......................... Kev·n Becker Business Manager ............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor ........................ Mar!( Pankowski ::J.-;;;/Jsing Design Manager ................ Molly Killen N-s Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager.. . ........ Melissa Warnke The Oblerver is the independent newapeper publiahed by the students of the Univerlity o1 Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Notre o.ne du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It cloel not neceuarily retlec1 the policiel of Spoits Editor ........... ....................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Ma:::c..,;er ............................ Shawn Sexton the edminiatration of either inltilution. The Newl is reported u accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ..................................... .. Tracy Schindele pollible. Unsigned lditoriall repreMnt the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mwy's Editor ...................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts ,Manager...................... Laura Stanton 
Commentaries. leltera and the IMide Column Pf8Mnl the views of their authorl. Column apace Photo Editor.................. . ............... Jim Carroll IS available to all memberl of the school community, and the free expression o1 varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1988 
- 
Accent 
Thursday, March 3, 1988  page 9  

'Amadeus' cast, costumes delight audience 

TAMRYN ETTEN accent writer 
I 
It was the Jack Blakey 
hour. Or rather, three 
hours. Jack Blakey, who played 
Antonio Salierl In last night's 
sold-out performance of 
"Amadeus" in Washington Hall, 
never leFt the stage during the 
three-hour performance. 
Salierl. the character who 
reigns over Mozart's life, reigns 
over the performance of 
Mozart's life story. The marat­
hon proves successful. He 
reigns over a brilliant display of 
Notre Dame acting talent. 
It Is a tragic story--the story of the dowmfall of two composers--one physical. the other mental. 
Predictably, the composer who meets his physical fall is the one for whom the play is named, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Played brilliantly by Brian Loefner, the brash, can­did, whining composer charms the audience with his hideous laugh and crude remarks. 
Amadeus' wife, Constanze, Is his suitable match In whim. K. Lynn Berry the actress, his match In talent. 
Mozart pursues fame and fortune in a world that cannot appreciate his brilliance. The only man who can truly appre­
ciate it is Salieri. 
As a child, Salleri,.makes a bargain with God that if God would provide him with talent. he would glorify God in return. But instead God chooses to give the gift of musical compo­sition to the Devil's instrument. Mozart. 
This burns in Salieri's heart. and he decides to devote the remainder of his life to over­seeing Mozart's demise. He must see to it that he "teaches God His lessons." 
Salieri narrates the story for the audience as an old man, an adult. and as a child. As Salierl. Blakey skillfully makes these transitions. He plays to his audience--the only audience that Salieri can captivate be­cause of his mediocre compos­ing. 
Blakey anguishes In his pain, cries in his sorrow, and laughs at his absurdity. He is a multi­faceted, evil man. We pity him, while we rejoice in the perfor­mance of him. 
The costumes and sets add to the brilliance of the perfor­mance. The 18th century dresses, suits, and wigs bring 
the audience back to the days 
of musical domination in 
Europe. The days of kings and 
queens, court composers, 
operas, and cantatas. 
The set. a classical composi­tion with an elaborate drape and sliding glass doors, is built on a slant. away from the audi­ence. Simple placing of chairs and tables lakes the audience into Mozart's home, the opera house, or the Waldstadten li­brary where Salieri learns of Mozart's childish whims from Salieri's upright chair. 
But what would a play about Mozart be without the music of "too many notes," full of the composer's vanity? A sound system, operating from back­stage, provides the small piano pieces and the large operas. 
The music is perfectly timed to the moods, expressions, and lines of the actors. As Salieri drops Mozart's manuscript to the noor in realization of his unreachable talent. the music stops. The line is severed, the damage done. 
Mozart's music went virtually unheard in his lifetime. This performance must not do the same. 

Grammy winners announced 
Associated Press 
N
EW YORK-U2, the Irish rock group with a passion for politics, picked up two Grammys Wednesday for The Joshua Tree, their I 2-mlllion selling album, and declared, ''This Is just a beginning." 
After Joshua Tree won album of the year, lead singer Bono said, "It's really hard to carry the weight of the world on your shoulders." Backstage, Bono added, "We don't see this as a peak for U2. It's just a begin­ning. We've got 12 songs ready for the next album." 
Little Richard revealed the Academy's choice for best new artlst--Jody Whatley, a Madonna sound-alike from the old dance-band, Shalamar. 
Whitney Houston, a winner 
two years ago with her debut 
album, took honors at the 30th 
Annual Grammy Awards for 
best female pop vocalist for 
her effervescent single, "I 
Wanna Dance with Somebody," 
from her LP, Whitney. Narada 
Michael Walden won a Grammy 
for producing Whitney. 
"Somewhere Out There," a sweet ballad written by veteran songwriters James Horner, Barry Mann, and Cynthia Well for the animated film "An American Tall," won song of the year. 
Guitarist The Edge, born David Evans, pulled out a list as he accepted the Grammy for best rock group with vocal The Joshua Tree. He thanked Am­nesty International and luminaries such as Martin Lut­
her King Jr., Bob Dylan, Jimi 
Hendrix, Archbishop Desmond 
Tutu, Dr. Ruth Westheimer, 
Morris the Cat. President 
Reagan and college radio sta­
tlons. 
U2, Houston, Los Lobos, and Michael Jackson each had four nominations this year, but none threatened to equal Jack-son's eight-award sweep in the 1984 ceremony. Jackson's ai­bum, Bad, won an early Grammy for best-produced, non-classical recording. 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo, the South African vocal group featured on Paul Simon's Graceland album, won a Grammy for best traditional folk recording for "Shaka Zulu." 

What would you ask President Reagan? 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Christine Walsh Photos by Zoltan (Jry 
"I would tell President Reagan that I don't think he should con­tinue to impose economic sanc­tions on Panama. Doing this hurts everyone In the country and in no way will it force General Noriega to leave. Noriega enjoys too much power and ineffective measures such as trade embargos and eco­nomic sanctions are not enough to make him abandon his posi­tion as military leader." 
Alice Lohrer Sophomore from Republic of Panama 



+ "I'd ask what President Reagart 
~ what he thinks he's learned about the Soviet-U.S. arms race, and what that means for the prospects of a U.S.-Soviet relationship by the year 2000. I think Reagan has learned that we can deal with the Russians, or at least he can deal with one particular kind of Rus­sian, and that's the one he's got now. It would be Interesting to hear him address that." 
George Lopez Director of the Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies 
"''d like to thank the President for the greatjob he has done. The economy has improved greatly, which is to his credit, and he has begun the process· of disarma­ment, which is a great achieve­ment." 
Michael Gannon Senior 


"''d tell the President he's a lame duck, and that he should not press for more Contra aid, be­cause the Nicaraguans were satisfied with their situations before we got Involved. He should just go out In style by letting things flow as they would without him interfering." 

Bob White Sophmore 

"It's unfortunate that the Presi­dent is coming here to talk about the Knute Rockne stamp, instead ofreallssues that concern college students in the United States." 
Maureen O'Brien Junior 


"I don't 
think that the President ­will change his foreign policy at this point. I think that under­standing other members In the global market Is very important, and his administration did not do that. In retrospect, I would like to ask him about this deficiency In his foreign policy." 
Cyretha Irving Graduate student 

-----~-------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 3, 1988 
page 10 The Observer 
Bengals 
continued from page 16 

ahead on points in the third round when Kane hit Reardon with a straight left, dropping him to one knee. But luckily for Reardon, he was far enough ahead in the minds of the judges to win on a split deci­sion. 
In the welterweight division, John 'Bull-Bull' Bastian stopped Sean 'The Commie Kil­ler' O'Brien at 1:25 of the second round to score the first knockout of the night. 
Turning to the midleweight division, Steve 'Slim' Reidl staged a comeback from a tough first round to defeat Pat 'The Bleeder' O'Neill in a split decision. 
Favorite Dan 'The Anchor 
Man' Gamache was able to hold off a strong challenge from Marty 'M-Train' Falken­berg to win his super mid­dleweight fight.

The next fight saw short, stocky light heavyweight Chris 'Boom-Boom' Balint win im­pressively over John 'The Legend' Schmit. 
In the other light heavyweight match, Mike 'Hello Holmes' Kelly won over Tom 'K.O.' Cummings in a hard-fought split decision. 
Defending heavyweight champion John Uhll had the strongest showing of the night. 
Mter several shots to the body, a straight right floored Griffin, who was given a standing eight count. Uhll quickly followed with a stinging right to the face, sen­ding Griffin to one knee at the sound of the bell. The referee then stopped the fight to give Uhll the victory. 
In the final match of the night, heavyweight Panos 'The Terminator' Tsicopoulus held on for a split decision victory over Richard 'Richie Rich' Jen­nings. 
The winners of last night's fights advance to the final round, to be held at 8:00 Friday night at Stepan Center. 
n.~Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, .::c:epn classified ectv.ttsing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.~Saint Mllry'a office, located on the third floor of Haw-Collge Cent81', accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next~ classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prapald, elth81' In person Of' by mall. The charge Is 10 cenn per five cherw:tenl P8f day. 
DOGS

NEED 4 MARQUETTE GA OR STUD. HELP!!! I NEED A RIDE TO DALLAS OR 
HAVE A FRIEND NEEDING A RIDE TO Ma Ham
CALL CHRIS X33B9. VICINITY OVER BREAK. WILL PAY$$$. 
N.D. FROM PITTSBURGH APRIL 15 A personal to suit the recipient: Remem­DOGS
NOTICES DOGS 
PLEASE CALL GARY 4284.
WEEKEND? FRIEND DRIVING UP FOR ber, you haven't won yet, nerd! 
DOGS

I need 2 GA's for MARQUETTE! Kya MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2BB-9103 P.E. SPIRIT WEEK 
SR. FORMAL AND WOULD LIKE 
RIDERS. CALL DREW 3666. 2n-1051 DAY. P.E. SPIRIT WEEK WHERE ELSE CAN YOU GO TO
I NEED MU TIXS CALL MIKE X1597 You still have a few days to get involved! PILEDRIVER: WATCH A BUNCH OF DOGS BEINGTo girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, 
GET PSYCHED FOR MONTE CARLO! Duuuuude! SaWeeet! ... COACHED BY A DUCK? IH HOCKEY TYPING AVAILABLE I want ill Please call Missy at 271·086B. 
287-4082 Leave message with roommate. I NEED MU TIXS! PLEASE CALL MIKE Remember: Jesus loves you, 232-0550 even if U2 are a NASS!I 
PLAYOFFS 
ALUMNI DOGS

Kermie, Keep the Faith, vs. 
NEED RIDE TO PHILLY-DEL.AREA 
Get ready for Spring Break by selling NEED 1 MARQUETTE STUD TCKT. /love you forever! August 24,1989! Bear Sweets OC CRIMEFOR SPA. BREAK LEAVE ANY DAY 
CALL JULIE AT 4128. P.S. "C'mere so I can THE WOOFING AND QUACKING 
unwanted class books for $$$ at Pan· AND PAY$$$ CALL SCOTT AT 1663 
dora's Books BOB Howard (1 block off slap the sh.. out of you! NO Ave). Open 7 days' week 10·5:30. CLEVELAND(east) I need a ride home MY GORGEOUS SISTER IS COMING Good Luck Anne-Marie Walker and Jeff 
STARTS AT 11:45 TONIGHT AT THE ACC
IN FOR MARQUETTE GAME WITH A Heiler!. You'll make great Jr. Class Offi· Need Ride to NEW YORK CITY of the FRIEND SHE DESPERATELY NEEDS cers! Luv, Amy 
for spring break Maggie X4670 
"DO YOU KNOW WHAT A NANNY QUACK, QUACK, QUACK, QUACK.
near vicinity for SPRING BREAK!II Can NEEDED: 4TH FEMALE ROOMMATE 2 TICKETS PLEASE CALL 2445 GOAT IS?" QUACK, QUACK. TRANSLATIONleave any day. Will share expenses. FOR CAMPUS VIEW APTS. FOR B8-B9 OLD TIME HOCKEY. EDDIE SHORE!
FOR SALE: PLANE TICKET TO TAMPA

Please call Missy 271-0B68 YEAR. CONTACT AMY AT 4525 OR PAT & TITO TONIGHT, 11:45, ACC.
AND BACK. LEAVE 3112, RETURN :¥19. 

JEAN AT 4244 IF INTERESTED. 
45 HOURS IN A
BARGAIN PRICE-CALL DAN AT 239­CAR WITH TWO HEY, HOW ARE YOU DOING? BUY
FAST, OUAUTV TYPING S'IIPG. 2511-5955. 
SEXY MEN ... YOU A COKE AFTER THE GAME
4843 CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR EN­DESPERATE!I need a ride to Phila., Pa. TONIGHT.
WHAT ELSE
GAGEMENT, LAURA area for Spring Break. Call Trish M. 284­
COULD WE ASK FOR?
44471 DOGS ! BESITOS! DOGS EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
PERSONALS
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 

NEED RIDE TO CHGO. 314. WILL DOGS SHARE $. CALL KRISTIN 5249. DOGS
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, SENIORS ... Let's Go Out With A Bang CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Vote Diebei-Fitzpatrick-McAIIister-Fitz 
DOGS WANTED MARQUETTE TICKETS CALL Scoot Rockne:
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.

\ LOST/FOUND I MIKE AT 323-0550 "A legend in his own shell."
SOUTH PADRE!! WE GOT 7 BUT NEED HELP ME GET HOME!
COED BICYCLE TOUP<'·COLORADO 3 MORE FOR CONDO, $115 FOR THE GOING TO D.C. FOR BREAK???? We I desperately need to find a ride to Long
LOST POLO JEAN JACKET WIWALLET ROCKIES 1988. WHITEWATER RAF­WEEK,CALL DAN 1167 IN POCKET. $25 REWARD PLEASE TING, JEEPING, VAN SUPPORT. COL­
want to share rides with you! Beth needs I have CHAMPAGNE soft music CLEAN Island or the NYC area for spring break. 
CALL PAUL ODLAND AT 1747 a ride there, Amy needs one back. LEGE CYCLE TOURS. (313) 357-1370. GET INTO SHAPE!! TRAIN EARLY!! TUB will buy RUB DUCK Snookums I will split expenses. etc. and can leave PLEASE call Beth 2851 or Amy 4525 
any time. Please call ij you are driving LOST-burgandy wallet,on :v.!B, some­YOU'RE NOT ALONE. Gays and Les­IT'S COMING!! GET READY NO!! in that area. Thanks. Jim (1215).
SALTV DOGS...."SALTY NEEDED: RIDE TO DC FOR SPRING DOGS...."SALTY DOGS"""""SAL TV BREAK-CALL JIMX3264 DOGs••••• WE REGRET TO AN· 
where belween Steppan and the library. bians at Notre Dam&St.Mary's College 
If found please call Bob al 27HJ758. P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND ... Thanks. Confidentiality Guaranteed. E ENGINEERS' WEEK 19BB JOHN R. I'm still sorry about the incident 
.NOUNCE THAT THE SALTY DOGS I need a ride to New Jersey(or surround· ARE DYING FROM A DISEASE
MARCH 21 -25 in the hall at Fisher's SYR. You know I LOST MY GOLD GUENE WATCH AAJAX didn't mean it. FLIRT
ing area) for spring breakll If you can CALLED OMPHALORRHAGIA. 
give me a lift call me at x1380, Mike. PLEASE SEND ANY CARDS OR
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LYONS AND FLOWERS TO DILLON HIGH,

HAYES-HEALY.ITHASABLACKFACE NEW YORK-Spring Break. Ride needed. I desperately need a ride to N.PNYC area THE QUAD THAT WAS MEANT TO BE 
TWO LOVELY LADIES NEED RIDE TO HEADQUARTERS RPPM 375. S.JERSEYJPHILf AREA FOR SPRING 
WITH A DIAMOND. REWARD GIVEN IF Call Missy 271-0868."""""""" for spring break. If you are driving please AND DID .................................... AM 
RETURNED. EXTREME SENTIMEN­........................N.EE'Dii.......................... call Marilyn at 346B . Terri Carr RG TAL VALUEII PLEASE CALL PATTY AT 
BREAK. WILL CHIP IN FOR GAS AND BUSY FRIDAY AFTERNOON? Why no! TOLLS. PLEASE CALL DENISE£2497 A RIDE TO CLEVELAND, AKRON­support Irish Hockey and tune into WVFI or BECKY £2545 CANTON VICINITY OR EXIT 11 ON THE 840 am at 4:00 pm for the 1st round of 
2B07. . VAIL TRIP NO men: rated among the best in the 
We still have 4 spots open!!! Call Mike nation. LOST-THURSDAY AFTERNOON LEFT 271·9446 or Paul1116 NO women: rated near the bottom.
OHIO TURNPIKE FOR SPRING the ACH playoffs as the FIGHTIN' IRISH MY BLUE N.D. SWEATSHIRT AT NO women, count your blessings!
BREAK!! CAN LEAVE AFTER 2:30 ON take on Lake Forest. Jamey Rappis and 
RIDERS NEEDED FOR THURS. MARCH 10. IF YOU CAN HELP Steve Trepicciona will call all the action AREA311 t-:WOCALLMATT271·0604 CALL THERESA AT X4238. via satellite from sunny Dearborn, MI. 
LAFORTUNE WASH IF YOU FOUND IT MATT A. 
COULD YOU RETURN IT TO THE HOPE YOU REALIZE THAT YOUR WASHROOM OR 302 ST.ED'S THANKS ONE OF THE WANT TO KNOW WHAT WAS THE NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNEs­lnteresled in social service? Interested
1-'enza-

BIGGEST JERKS FIRST OFFICIAL N.D. FOOTBALL SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIII!II! 1 hear you going back to Cali in fighting red tape? Interested in the
LOST: GLASSES IN BROWN LEAT­I KNOW . CHEER ~ BUY THE ORIGINAL N.D. I;IER CASE WITH VELCRO CLOSURE TRIVIA GAME AND YOU WILL FIND
CALL CAROL at 27HJ868 ASAP. Love, Moi human suffering in Chile? Then come 
listen to James Mundell, director of Choi­
AND BLACK GLOVES IN OR NEAR THE ANSWER TO THIS QUESTION ¢ 
Chol Foundation for Human Develop­
CUSHING LAST THURSDAY. CALL REGATTA IS COMMING ... 4,799 OTHER QUESTIONS. AVAIL· 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! ment CSC, Monday, March 7 at 7:00PM. Desperately need ride to and from AFTER BPM. 
SCOTT AT 283-4 798. REGATTA IS COMING ... ABLE FOR ONLY $12. CALL 2B9· 1586 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! Q:WHAT IS A BID? A:A TICKET FOR LUNCHFASTERS... won­
Has anyone found a black Toshiba Dayton REGATTA IS COMING .. . WED. Ever walkman? Its seems to have been taken REGATTA IS COMING...
March 3-6 TWO. O:WH'IIS A TICKET CALLED A dered where the money goes? Who it 
BID? A:WE JUST DON'T KNOW WHY! helps? Here's your chance to find the
from my room a couple of weeks ago. If Call Cindy at 284-5448 Congratulations, Mark and Laura 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! answers. James Mundell, director of thefound, please return to Marilyn in 420 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! Choi-Chol Foundation for Human Devel­I need a ride for spring break to anywhere Are you a 10? opment, will be speaking about issues FOUND: British rail passes In South in the area ol SOUTHERN ILLINOIS or Or is it just 1 0 days? involved in running a development Mike Dining Hall. Come by the dining hall ST. LOUIS. Call Babs x3736. SENIOR FORMAL!!! agency in the third world. Choi-Chol an­Thanks for your support and encourage· 
Lewis or call 3468. What's Important 
SENIOR FORMAL!!! nually receives lunch fast funds for ijs BID SALES TONIGHT 
to claim. ment. I look forward to running against 
Ride Needed FROM Washington DC TO RIDE needed o Syracus..Central New work in Chile. All are invited to hear you. Best of luck on Super Tuesday. Bob FOUNDII FOUNDII FOUNDII South Bend at end of Break. (Approx Mar 6-9 York area for Spring Break. Please call James Mundell. Monday, March 7. 7:00 ONE DISC CAMERAII 20·21) Call Mike -2BB-6384 LEMANS LOBBY Gary at £1153. PM in the CSC auditorium. SAINT MARY'S
IT'S ' BEING RANDSOMED, WORM IV: 40 North HOWEVERII HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO NORTHERN 
SENIOR FORMALIII SENIOR FOR­Thanks to Gina Killian, Theresa Barnhart, MALl!! Cathy Condit, Cathy Olson and Steve
W.E.B.S. SEE PERSONALSII N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HEY LEWIS W.E.B.S., SHARE EXPENSES. CALL FRANK 1487 YES YOU, PATTY, JUDY, KATHY, AND 
Serra whose work helped make the Lon­FOR SALE "Business & Society In Japan" don Progam JPW Tea such a terrific 
BARB,(respectlvely) FOUNDII FOUNDII FOUNDII Optional Credltflnanclal Aid DELORES, event. WE ARE HOLDING 1 DISC CAMERA ONE ROLE OF FILM IN 417 LEWISII HELP! CHANGE IN PLANS IS FORCING International Internship Programs No se espana/ muy buena, pero Feliz AND 1 ROLE OF FILM FOR ITS BEING HELD RANSOM, TOOII ME TO GIVE UP FANTASTIC SPRING 406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. Cumpleanos numero veinte! FIND THE LEPRECHAUNII TODAY, RANDSOMIIII 
W.E.B.S. PLEASE SEE PERSONALS!! BREAK. NEED TO SELL AIRLINE Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 MARIA LOOK FOR HIM HERE: BENEATH THIS OUR DEMANDS ARE AS EASY AS 
TICKET TO SAN FRANCISCO. LEAVE CROSS STANDS A MOUND AROUND YA'ALL ARE! ALL WE WANT IS THE WED. MARCH 9: RETURN M MARCH WHICH N.D. WAS FOUND. HE'LL BE FILM 
21. SPECIAL PRICE $1 BO OR NEGOTI· THANK YOU ST. JUDE lm lm A Bus, Knaht Uoy Rot Eht Taerg HERE FROM 4:00-4:10. SAY "LUCK 0' CONTAINING THE JUICY PHOTOS 
ABLE. CALL JON AT X 3125 OR X 3127 Emit Ni Siuol .Ts. Emat Ej. Outs Niffum. THE IRISH" TO CLAIM PRIZE II TAKEN THE NITE OF 3-HI8 IN 417 AND HELP MAKE A BAD SITUATION LEWIS
FOR RENT 

JUST A LITTLE BETTER. YOU KNOW WHO: Oh what a tangled TO MY AUSTRIAN PRINCESS, OH IF OUR DEMANDS ARE NOT MET, EX­Coke web we weave, when we practice to PECT THE NORWICH POLICE TO GET
KATHLEEN, THE THOUGHT OF YOU 
RENT HOUSE DURING SUMMER CALL FOA SALE:77pont. Grand deceive. Let me know who you are!! LEAVES ME ENTRANCED-NWHAT INVOLVED! r· 3616 Prix.p&j:>b,new parts,85K mi.$600 offer, Coke "SWIVEL HIPS" CAN I SAY? THOSE LATE NIGHTS AT GET IT? GOT IT? GOOOOOOOOD!!!! 287-3876. B.H. & M.W.
THE OAK ROOM EXCITE ME SO. 
RENT CHGO APT! Sunny, lg 1 br In Coke That's all I wanted... Just to see my PLEASE MY LITTLE TARTLET DONT 
vintage ctyd bldg. Hdwd firs, fan, Electra Westone Bass¢ Marshall Bass20 baby's green eyes shine. (Senior Bar LEAVE ME OUT IN THE COLD. WUV binds, eat-In kit, dw, walk-In clsts, Amp. Together or separate. Marily 1106 tonight?) LATE NIGHT ADMIRER HELP!! I NEED RIDE TO WASH. D.C. bsmt storage,lndry. W blk to Lk Shore Things We Won't Miss XIII: OVER BREAK!! Dr bus, 2 blk to el train, Wrigley. $650. 350 YAMAHA 7 4 8000M $500 233·1485 Sweaters Worn Inside Out We know. congratulations on your ENGAGEMENT WILL LEAVE WHEN EVER AND 
Avail beg Apr 1. 312-871-3397 (NO '80) BEFORE 10 PM ASK 4 MARTIN Soon everyone will know. WHERE EVER!
Katie and B.J. 

I LOVE YOU! PLEASE CALL BRENNAN AT 2158 IF 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­DO YOU THINK THAT YOU KNOW you never knew how much i really liked CLAIRE, Thanks so much for letting me YOU CAN ASSIST BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 288·0955255-EVERYTHING ABOUT N.D. ? BUY THE you because i never even told you oh, use your car Saturday night! It was KEY I 3684 N.D. ORIGINAL TRIVIA GAME AND and i meant to HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIKE KUROWSKI Could you ask your roommate to get on 
FIND OUT. AND the stick & ask me to the SYR? If she
4,800 QUESTIONS LOVE, THE WILD & INNOCENT LYONS MONTE CARLO NIGHT 2 ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID ANSWERS. ONLY $12. CALL 289-1586 To girl with NEW YORK CITY tick­GALS doesn't hear, use SANTA'S HORN to get MONTE CARLO NIGHT 
2BB-0955 AFTER 8PM. et...Yes, I want it! Please call Missy at her attention. MONTE CARLO NIGHT 271·0868. Leave message with room-­ECHO & THE BUNNYMEN WITH THE mate. SCREAMING BLUE MESSIAHS! WVFI Fellow women: are you tired of being Pasquerilla East 
AM 640 and The Progressive Music Club March 4, 19B8
taken advantage of on the dance floor at 1 rnd. trip to anywhere Continental US. EDUCATIONAL TOUR TO THE SOVIET Echo bus trip to Northwestern U to see SYR's and formals? If you want to stop
WANTED 

this injustice, sign up for a self-defense days starting May 29 -sign-ups due circle at 4:30 on Sunday, March 6, 1988. seminar. Call Julie Hanson at £4598. CAMPUS PAINTERS IS NOW ACCEPT· soon. Informational meeting 411 and Interested in going? We have 7 spots 
-Now until 4112. 233-3412. UNION -DESIGNED FOR STUDENTS the show. Both buses will leave the main $ "Lose it all" $ 
Confidentiality guaranteed. 
lNG APPLICATIONS AND CONDUCT­2110 at 4:30 In G-69 library basement available-$25 for ticket and bus. 2 spots Going West on I-BO for break? I need a ING INTERVIEWS FOR SUMMER EM­bus only-if you already have your ticket. ride to Iowa City. Call Faris at 4352.
(or call 1-862-3191) To the GUYS from SORIN
TICKETS 

Thanks for all the fun at NEW YORK,
PLOYMENT IN THE NORTH SUBURBS Call 239·688B tonight. 
IRISH LAD NEW YORK! I NEED ANY MARQUETTE TIX-CARL (And AL--don't worry we still love yal) 
OF CHICAGO. IF INTERESTED SET UP JOHN C. 
AN APPOINTMENT WITH US AT: NEED RIDE TO ANOOR FROM OK· YES, THIS ONE IS FOR YOU. HAPPY £21B7 From those P.W. PARTY WOMEN
CAMPUS PAINTERS LAHOMA.WILL HELP WGAS AND 21st AND YES I STILL WONDER 2901 CENTRAL STREET YOU SAID HI TO ME LAST NITE DRIVE BRAD4133 "WHAT YOU ARE THINKING" ·AND TO SC
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60201 FLIGHT CHARLESTON FOR WALKING OUT OF THEO'S YOU REALLY ARE MY BEST FRIEND. 312·251·0151 BREAK.CALL 167B RIGHT? I'M IMPRESSED! DO YOU PAUL YOU DIDN'T THINK I'D FORGET Dallas, France, Moroocol!! Congrats 412 LOVE, 
WANT TO GO TO THE ST. PAT'S DID YOU? HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE, MEKeenan!!! 
NEED FLIGHT TOf'ROM DC FOR BALL? TELL ME TONITE AT THE KING YOUR FAVORITE SMC GOING TO NEW YORK CITY FOR BREAK? CALL 3705 & QUEEN COMPETITION. CLUB DANI<IS JENNIFER "MAD FtNGERS" CONLON: SPRING BREAK??? Please call me, I'd IRISH EYES NEED RIDE TO KNOXVILLE, TENNEs­CLUB DANI\IS WATCH OUT FOR FUTURE PER· 
like a ride any day you're going. Shared SEE FOR EASTER BREAKIIIIIIII (OR CLUB DANKIS SONALSTo girl with NEW YORK CITY ticket. Yes, 
I want ill Please call Missy at 271-0B68. message wtoommate. PLEASE CALL CAROL at 27HJ868. GUESS WHO 
expanses. Call Missy 271-0868 or leave PROVOLONE ANY WHERE IN THE NEAR VICINITY) It's getting bigger all the time. 
Leave message with roommate. 
l • 
~--~·-----__,____ 

Thursday, March 3, 1988 The Observer 
page 11 

Irish host 'wide open' meet 
Swimmers climax season with Midwest Championships 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
It's one of the meets swim­ming coach Tim Welsh has been pointing towarq all.. season. 
The Irish host the men's Mid­west Independent Invitational Championships starting today at Rolf's Aquatic Center. Ac­tion begins at noon with trials and the first-day finals are set for 7 p.m. The meet continues on the same schedule Friday and Saturday. 
Welsh has spent the majority of the year preparing his squad for the championship season and this meet is the climax of a season of work and success. The Irish took ninth in last year's meet, but used a split

The Observer 1 John Fischer 
squad.

After enjoying a 13-3 regular season, the Notre Dame men's swim 
"Last year we split our 

team hosts the Midwest Independent Invitational Championships 
teams, and I sent one to an­

this weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish will try to improve 
other meet," Welsh said. "This 

on last year's eighth-place finish. 
Tennis team looks to end slide 
Third-year Irish coach Mic-The Irish lost to the Buckeyes By FRANK PASTOR helle Gelfman believes that the 5-4 last year, but they still team's recent troubles, which maintain a 2-1 series lead
Sports Writer 
include losses to Miami of Ohio dating back to 1985. The two The Notre Dame women's and Illinois as well as the set-· teams square off on Friday in 
tennis team continues its gruel-back to Colorado, will give it ing spring schedule this the extra incentive needed to weekend as it goes on the road emerge victorious this to face Big 10 powers Ohio State weekend. and Michigan. ''All of the Big 10 schools will 
Notre Dame will be trying to be really good matches," says halt a three-game game losing Gelfman. "With Ohio State and streak that began last Michigan, I think it can go Thursday in a 7-1 loss to either way. We have to want it Colorado at the Eck Tennis more. We have to be hungry to Pavilion. win." 
.;..;...111!1!1~~1111111!~~~~111!!!1!!1!!!!!1!~~~~---.. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 6,7:30 pm MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED $13.00 (includes $.50 for Building Improvement Fund) 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS. WORLD RECORDS AND TAPES AND J.R.'S. CHARGE: (219) 284-9190 
Columbus, Ohio, in what should 
prove to be a hotly-contested 
match. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame 
moves on to Ann Arbor, Mic­
higan to face the Wolverines. 
Although the Irish were vic­
torious 5-4 in last. spring's 
meeting, they still trail Mic­
higan 4-1 in the series. 
Notre Dame has managed a
total of only two singles and two doubles victories in its last three matches. 
Senior Michelle Dasso picked up both the singles victories, winning from the number-one singles position against both Miami and Illinois. 
In doubles competition, freshman Cathy Bradshaw and sophomore Jacqueline Uhll emerged victorious over Colorado's number-three doubles tandem. Against Miami, Dasso and sophomore Alice Lohrer combined to defeat the Redskins' top-
seeded doubles team. 
A pair of victories by the Irish women this weekend will catapault the team back over the .500 mark for the season, and Will most certainly erad­icate all memories of its recent 

l.illl.lillllillilliiil.lliiiililiiiiiliiiilllililllliiiiiiiii••IIIJthreE~-game slump. 
ALL PERFORMANCES SOLD OUT 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
AMADEUS 
by Peter Shaffer 
directed by Frederic Syburg 
Washington Hall 
Wed., March 2, Thurs., March 3, Fri., March 4, Sat., March 5-8:10 P.M. Sun., March 6-3:10 P.M. 
Main Floor $6. Balcony S5 Tickets are available at Students & Senior Cotizens S4 Wash1ngton lolall Ticket Office on W'Jd .. Thurs.. Sun. only. Weekdays Noon to 6 P.M. 
MasterCard/VIsa orders 239-5957 

year we didn't do that. We're trying to concentrate on this meet and have our fastest team swim. We've improved a lot from last year." 
Southwest Missouri is the re­turning champ. Western Illi­nois was second at last year's meet followed by Illinois­Chicago in third. Welsh says it's hard to pick a favorite in this year's field because of the increased parity among the teams. 
"I think the meet is a lot more wide open at the top," Welsh said. ''A lot of the power has balanced itself out." 
If their record and individual performances mean anything, the Irish are definitely ready for the meet. They finished the season 13-3 in dual meets and took second in the National Catholic Meet to a strong Vil­lanova team. 
Notre Dame is· coming into the meet after winning the Mid­western Collegiate Conference Championships two weeks ago in Evansville. The Irish easily outdistanced the host Aces 589­
-~1>,  ~  •"  ~~ .. --;,  '7--;-,­ 
\  "~  • ....  •  
•  ~  
.  .  (  
'  '  .  
~  

357. Brian Rini garnered Most Valuable Swimmer honors in that meet, winning the 200, 500 and 1650 freestyle events. 
"It reaffirmed that our preparations seem to be working for the championship season," Welsh said of that win. 
The women took fifth in the Midwest Independent Cham­pionships last weekend in Chicago, while the men had the weekend off. The women finished the season with a 9-7 ledger. 
The week of rest will prove valuable to the men in this meet. Welsh used the time off to concentrate on becoming mentally, as well as physically, prepared for the meet. 
- \  T  ~ ·~;-­ 
.  ",)1~·;·~,..  \  
·..  
1 •  ' 
'\  
...  )  


The Observer I John Stur1Ahaker 

Semifinal action of the 58th annual Bengal Bouts took place Wed­nesday night at the Stepan Center. The Bouts, which benefit the Holy Cross missions of Bangladesh, conclude with the finals on Friday night at the Stepan Center. 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

----------------~---~-------~ ~-------~~---~~ 
page 12 
Fencers 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams have selected the participants for this weekend's NCAA Midwest Regionals at Evanston, Ill. 
Irish coaches Michael DeCicco and Yves Auriol had a tough time making the deci­sions, but for DeCicco, it was enjoyable in that he was able to choose from a large pool of excellent fencers. 
"I'm in an enviable position, having to determine who will go to the NCAAs," said DeCicco earlier this week. 
Freshman sabreman Lesek N owosielski and junior epeeist Todd Griffee have already qualified for the NCAAs in their respective weapons. Both fen­cers turned in fine perfor­mances this past weekend at the Great Lakes Champion­ships, taking first in their divi­sions. 
Accompanying Nowosielski in sabre will be sophomore Danny Yu. Yu was chosen just ahead of freshman Chris Bauger, who also fared well this past weekend. The decision once again was extremely dif­ficult for DeCicco. 
"Chris Bauger is coming up now, and I don't think he's leveled off yet," said DeCicco. "He's got a fiery personality. It was definitely a tough deci­sion between him and Danny. But this kind of tournament, we have found, has always favored a Dan Yu. He has demon­
The Observer 

set for Regionals 
staunch opposition all year, and DeCicco sees their perfor­mances as a key indicator for the team's overall success. 
"How we do in the nationals will depend on which Todd Grif­fee and which Ted Fay show up this weekend," said DeCicco. "If Griffee and Fay give us a performance like they did at the USF A, then we will not con­cede the gold to Columbia." 
Columbia won the men's championship last year. This year they are returning practi­cally the same team and are heavily favored to repeat. 
Senior foilist Yehuda Kovacs garnered the first spot in that weapon after finishing second this past weekend. All season DeCicco has been pleased with Kovacs' consistent fencing, though the head coach con­cedes that at times his captain is prone to become erratic. 
"When Yehuda fences, he takes no prisoners," stated DeCicco. "What we need to do as coaches is to keep his emo­tion from dominating his fen­cing." 
The other foil position will be filled by freshman Phil Leary, who just edged out junior Derek Holeman for the spot. Al­though Leary is only in his in­itial year at the college varsity level, DeCicco senses that he is quite capable of the responsi­bility. 
"He's really been our strongest fencer," remarked DeCicco. "It may be very key for him at this time to have team support around him, es­
strated this in the past." pecially from next year's 
Joining Griffee in the epee captain-elect Joel Clark. If it division will be junior Ted Fay. means that Joel should be by The Irish epeeists have met his side for every bout, and 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Part two of the Notre Dame baseball road show takes place this weekend, as the Irish tour their home state of Indiana. 
Notre Dame plays at Indiana State on Saturday afternoon, then heads to Bloomington for a doubleheader with Indiana University on Sunday. The wee~end trip comes a week after the Irish opened the season in North Carolina, and a week before a Spring Break trip to Texas. 
The Irish come into the weekend with a 1-3 record after splitting two games with Duke and getting swept by Wake For­est. The road does not look to get any easier this weekend, as the Sycamores and Hoosiers both are coming off successful seasons. 
"We face a big challenge this weekend," said Murphy. "In­diana and Indiana State are as good if not better than Wake Forest and Duke." 
Indiana State has partici­pated in the NCAA Regionals in each of the last two years, reaching the College World Se­ries in 1986. The Sycamores are 0-2 this season after getting swept by Alabama last 
,. 
weekend. 
Seven players from last season's 45-18-1 squad have ad­vanced to the professional ranks, but Indiana State still has plenty of hitting. Second baseman Mitch Hannahs (.372 average, nine home runs, 13 stolen bases, 56 runs batted in) and centerfielder Bob Zeihen (.336, 5, 15, 46) combine power and speed for the Sycamores. 
First baseman Jeff Buell is an­other long-ball threat, having hit 10 homers in just 26 games last season. 
Indiana State does not have quite as much depth on the mound. Alabama scored 27 runs in just two games against ISU last weekend. Kurt Olson, who batted .358 as a designated hitter last year, brings a 5-1 1987 record back to the pitching staff. 
When the Irish road show leaves Terre Haute for Bloomington on Sunday, Notre Dame will have to cope with an old nemesis in the Indiana Hoosiers. The Irish lost three games to Indiana this year, and going back to 1984, have lost seven consecutive meetings with the Hoosiers. 
that's what it takes for Phil to be successful, then that's what we'll do." 
For the women's competi­tion, it could be a longer road. At the beginning of the year, the Irish were favored to repeat as national champions. However, some doubt was cast when junior Janice Hynes was declared ineligible. Since then, the women have suffered three team losses to Midwestern rivals Wayne State. 
''Against most of our compe­tition, we can still win without our top fencers," said DeCicco. "But against four good fencers as in Wayne State, you can't afford this luxury. 
"What we need is a super ef­fort from Molly Sullivan and a very good effort from Anne Barreda," noted DeCicco. 
Senior captain Molly Sul­livan returns this weekend after competition in Europe. 
Joining Sullivan and Barreda most likely will be juniors Kris­tin Kralicek and Brenda Leiser. Their performances could spark a big upset for the Irish. 
"IfAnne Barreda and Kristin Kralicek come up with their two or three wins between them, along with Molly's effort, and then at least one or more from our number-four spot, then we could pull off a heck of a surprise against Wayne St.," said DeCicco. "How well the women do will hinge on those individual performances." 
Following this weekend's competition, the Irish will have almost three weeks to prepare for the NCAA championships at Princeton. 
Baseball team back on the road 
If the Irish are to change things this time, they will have to keep Hoosier shortstop Mickey Morandini off the basepaths. The pre-season All­American hit .370, stole 41 bases, hit 10 home runs and was a general pain in the neck to opposing pitchers last season. 
The Hoosiers return some quality pitching from last season's 43-17 club. Indiana's ace, Doug Peters, compiled a 7-1 record and a 2.91 earned run average in his freshman cam­paign last year. 
Notre Dame scored 35 runs in its first four games last weekend, but could not get much success from its pitching staff. 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 


The Observer I File Photo The Notre Dame men and women's fencing teams head to Evanston, 
Ill., this weekend for the NCAA Midwest Regionals. The squads are coming off respective first and second place finishes in the Great Lakes Championship. 
Ihe--O.bs-.. e~~er--­
--..-:=..~

--·---­
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
SENIOR FORMAL "FOREVER YOUNG" 
April 15, 16, 17 Hyatt Regency Chicago 
BID SALES 
TODAY 
WHERE: 
March l & 2: New Orleans Room, Lafortune March 3: LeMans Lobby, SMC 
WI-lEN: 6-9 p.m. 

BID PRICE: $70 INCLUDES: 
* Dinner for Two
* Cocktail Party
* T\Vo fn.·c drink Uckcts

* * Champagne Engraved Senior Formal 
Champagne Glasses
* F'onnal Dnnce 
** Mass Cnntlncnlnl Bnmch

* lluokll't nf lnfnnnatlon on the wct.·kcn<l und Chlcot,;u 
REMEMBER TO: 
.I Buy Bid 
./ Make Dinner Reservations 
.t Mak.e Room Reservations 
.I Order 'l'uxes 
.I Order Flowers 
NY...:U INt'(Yl 

C/\1.1. VINCE AT :J.H:I-12:Vi. ('OLLEEN t\T :,uo~;\ 2H!"•:1 u.u;l;'l;,\ /\I' :lH-J-r-:uu ou 1\N.N i~d :H1·' :-,:!'..!1 ACI¥«)RKS 
-------------------------------------------------------------~ -­
Thursday, March 3, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
College basketball roundup 
Duke loses~ in ACC upset 
Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. -Grayson Marshall made a short jumper with 1: llleft, and Tim Kincaid made four free throws in the final minute as Clemson stunned No.9 Duke 79-77 in an Atlantic Coast Conference game Wednesday night. 
With the score tied 72-72 with 
1: 33 left, Marshall drove the lane and made a 13-footer to give Clemson its first lead since midway through the opening half. 
Quin Snyder hit the second of two free throws to cut it to one with 45 seconds left. But Mar­shall, who had been in the stu­dent infirmary with the flu on Monday, hit the front end of a one-and-one eight seconds later. 
Kincaid then hit two straight one-and-ones -with 31 seconds and 19 seconds left -to give Clemson a 79-73 lead. 
. Clemson is 13-13 and 3-10 in the league after only its second victory in its last 10 games. 
Duke dropped to 20-6 and 8-5. 
Seton Hall 83, Pitt 79 
PITTSBURGH Mark Bryant had 23 points and 13 rebounds and Ramon Ramos converted a three-point play in the last minute Wednesday night as Seton Hall beat No. 7

M 
Pittsburgh 83-79, its second vic­

A 
tory over the Panthers this T year. Seton Hall, 20-10 and 8-7 in
H 
the Big East, overcame a 12­point deficit in the final four minutes and ended Pit­

1 
tsburgh's 14-game home win­0 ning streak. The loss prevented Pitt from 
1 
clinching at least a tie in the Big East and the victory gave 



LIP SYNC CONTEST 
Saturday, March 5 
10:00 p.m. .;t at Theodore's 
~ 

20 hot acts going for a $200 Grand Prize!!! 
.IJ 

Sponsored by SUB &. 
Theodore's 


MYSTERY JODGES! 

Seton Hall its first 20-win 
season since 1955-56. 
Charles Smith scored 25 
points for Pittsburgh, 21-5 and 
11-4. 
UNC 97, Ga. Tech 80 
ATLANTA-J.R. Reid scored nine of his 24 points in a 23-4 second-half burst that carried No. 6 North Carolina to a 97-80 Atlantic Coast Conference vic­tory over No. 13 Georgia Tech Wednesday night. 
The five-minute run stretched a six-point lead to 90­65 when Reid capped it with a basket with 4: 10 left in the game. 
The victory gave Carolina, 22-4 overall and 11-2 in the con­ference, the outright regular season title in the ACC, marking the 20th time the Tar Heels have either won or shared the top spot in the 35­year history of the conference. 
The setback snapped a seven-game winning streak for Tech, 21-7 and 8-5. 
Temple 75, St. Joe's 62 
PHILADELPHIA -Fresh­man Mark Macon scored a season-high 35 points as No. 1 Temple defeated city-rival St. Joseph's 75-62 in a fight-marred. Atlantic 10 game Wednesday night. 
The victory allowed the Owls to end their regular season with only one defeat in 27 games. They won the Big 5 city title for the second straight year and were undefeated in the Atlantic 10 with 18 victories. 
The game was marred by several fights, and at one point both coaches were shouting at 
each other on the sidelines. St. Joseph's fell to 14-13 and 9-9. 
UK 80, Georgia 72 

LEXINGTON, Ky. -Ed Davender scored 20 points and had eight assists as No. 8 Ken­tucky clinched a share of the Southeastern Conference title with an 80-72 victory over Geor­gia Wednesday night. 
The game also marked the return to the Kentucky lineup of guard Rex Chapman, who was out a week after fracturing a bone in his lower back. He responded with 15 points, and scored five points in an 8-0 second-half spurt that sparked the Wildcats to their third straight victory. 
Michigan 105, NU 67 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Glen Rice scored 25 points and Gary Grant added 24 Wednesday night, leading No. 10 Michigan to a 105-67 victory over Northwestern in the Big Ten. 
In other college basketball action Wednesday, West Vir­ginia whipped St. Bonaventure 76-64, Florida State scalped Virginia Tech 92-79, Southern Missippi soared past Cincin­nati 104-85, South Carolina killed Oral Roberts 91-62, Vir­ginia edged Wake Forest 69-67 in double overtime, Holy Cross trimmed Iona 91-86, Louisville defeated Austin Peay 84-78, Tennessee turned back Ala­bama 81-58, Kansas State shucked Nebraska 77-67, Ohio State bucked Minnesota 77-74, Baylor annihilated Texas Tech 91-49, Iowa State blew past Oklahoma State 97-88 and SMU outscored TCU 87-54. 
Sports Briefs · 
Tim Brown asks that anyone with autograph requests to drop off the items they want autographed in the football office at the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
Stanford A2 nipped Keenan A last night in men's Interhall basketball A-league playoffs last night, setting up a matchup with Stanford A1 Sunday for the champion­ship. Dillon B1 defeated O.C. last night to emerge from the B-league consolation round and will meet Sorin B in the B-league championship Sunday. -The Observer 
IH floor hockey is looking for referees. The pay is $7 per game. If interested, stop by the NVA office today. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held tonight from 7-9 p.m. in Room 108 LaFortune. There is a $5 entry fee. For more information, call Barbara at 284-5073. -The Observer 
Used cross country ski equipment is being offered for sale by non-varsity athletes at the golf shop this Sat­urday from 12-1 p.m. First come, first served for sets of boots, skis and poles at $25 per package. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will have mandatory practice tonight beginning at 6 p.m. All those traveling to Iowa this weekend must attend. Please note change in time and place. Any questions, call Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Observer 
GraceVision, Notre Dame's only hall television sys­tem, will be filming this year's Bengal Bouts. Videotape orders can be placed at the door of Stepan Center each night of the fights. Tapes of each weight class, or of the championship night are available for $29.95 each. -The Observer 
The Blue Line Club is sponsoring a trip to the ACHA playoffs in Dearborn, Mich. The bus leaves tomor­row and returns Saturday after the game or Sunday mor­ning. Cost is approximately $30 and accomodations are available at the Hyatt Regency at $65 a room. -The Ob­server 


-------~----------~­
Thursday, March 3, 1988

page 14 The Observer 
Track has 11 reach IC4A's 
.,;;-~ . 
L . ...-...... . "•'" "'-,, 
. ·.·"';...,..., ... ,.~,.,,..~·· 
r ~H''.,..,.__,._...,.,.,, ...,, ·<'­
;~ -t.t-~ < --••<." l<'>' • .. ·'
w4< r:, ·If'·""' •~)of'"' ~ , >!''
·'II..,,.,.,...,... '•ltlt ,..•Jr>·,•·
•'*....""' ....-..,:r'""'" :
•. ~...~.,..,.,...::.._ -·-~---... ito>.-...Jr1v)vt'\ 

The Observer I AP Photo Less than a week after being named the new coach of the New Jersey Nets, Willis Reed has gotten his team off In the rightdirection with a major upset. The Nets surprised the Atlantic Division-leading Boston Celtlcs 117-107 on Wednesday. 
Year of the Boilermakers? 
No. 2 Purdue eager to change its post-season fortune 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue's closest challenger for the Big Ten basketball championship is the same team that kept the Boilermakers from the out­right league title and an auto­matic NCAA berth a year ago. 
Then, as now, Purdue had sole possession of first place in the conference and had only to win the rest of its games to clinch its first outright cham­pionship since 1969. 
But the Boilermakers . stumbled 104-68 in a nationally televised game at Michigan in the season windup. That gave Indiana a share of the· Big Ten crown, and the Hoosiers -not the Boilermakers -were given a first-and second-round ad­vantage with an NCAA assign­ment to the Hoosier Dome in Indiana polis. 
If second-ranked Purdue can hold onto the lead this year, its reward likely would t~ a jaunt upstate to South Bend for a first-round game at No~re Dame. 
"We put a lot of pressure on 
ourselves to win. When we did 
that, it was like somebody 
poked a needle in our balloon 
and let the air out,'' Coach 
Gene Keady says of last year's 
collapse. "We haven't talked 
about the Big Ten champion­
ship (this year); we have 
talked about getting a good 
(NCAA) draw." 
Instead of a trip down Interstate-65 to Indianapolis, Purdue went east to Syracuse and lost to Florida in the second round of the 1987 NCAA tourn­ament. Indiana, of course, swept through the first two rounds at Indianapolis, the regional at nearby Cincinnati and captured its fifth NCAA crown in New Orleans. 
Now the Boilermakers have 
a two-game lead on Michigan's 
lOth-ranked Wolverines with 
four games left, and the two 
contenders meet for the second 
time this season on Saturday 
at West Lafayette. Purdue won 
the first game 91-87 at Ann Ar­
bor. 
The Observer 

"I think what we did last year All the Boilermakers are con­showed a pretty good ability to cerned with now, says Keady, be successful with a young is finishing the regular season. team. It was probably harder than this year," says Keady, "We're not getting carried whose Boilermakers have a away. As far as pressure, that's 
better record in Big Ten games always the same. We're not (97-43) than any other confer­concerned. We just want to be ence team over the past eight successful coming down the years since he came from stretch." Western Kentucky. 
The difference, possibly, this Led by seniors Troy Lewis at year? 
17.8 points a game and Todd "What's pleased me most is Mitchell at 16.4, Purdue is 13-1 the way they've played relaxed in the conference, with its only and still with intensity. The fact loss at Indiana. Overall, we've refused to quit and seem Purdue is 24-2, already match-to have a great will to win," ing the school record for Keady said. "Those things are regular-season victories. The very positive. Our strength is 
Boilermakers play at Wisconsin Thursday night before the big battle against Michigan at Mackey Arena on Saturday. 
"I don't care where we go (for the NCAA tourney)," Keady says. "The thing is, you have to win wherever you go." 
Still, he admits he wasn't happy in 1984, when as Big Ten co-champions the Boiler­makers were sent to Memphis and lost a first-round game with Memphis State. Two years later, Purdue went to Baton Rouge and lost its first-round game to Louisiana State. It is possible that the Boilermakers could face the host team again this year in the early goings if they meet Notre Dame in the first-or second-round. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Applications for FRESHMAN ORIENTATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

can be picked up starting Tuesday, March 1 at the Student Government Offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Applications will be due Monday, March 7 by 4:00 p.m. 
we have experience and have been through most of the test at this level. But we still have a long way to go." 
IftbeJX'eSS didn'ttell us,wfK) \UJkl? 
To F' printed lnronnatlon on tht role of• flft pre... .m tKl'l' 11 pnxcct11 your rflht•. ortodiKUUin) flft pt'eU IUUt.aH the flnt Amendment CC'I'ItCf 11 I.SOO.SC2-t600. 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

With the rising of the sun on Friday, 11 Notre Dame men's track team members will begin their journey to the campus of Princeton University and the the Intercollegiate Amateur Association of America Cham­pionships (IC4A's). 
The IC4A conference is the oldest in the country and fea­tures 121 teams. It includes all East Coast teams north of Washington, D.C. Notre Dame remained in the conference when the NCAA created its own version of the indoor champion­ships over twenty years ago. 
"It is a half step from the NCAA Championships," said Irish coach Joe Piane. 
Piane has high expectations for his team this weekend. 
"If we finish in the top 10, then we've done a great great job," said Piane. "Most of our Athletes are from the east coast, s.:. they're really pumped up about going back home. It should be a good meet.'' 
Favorites this weekend in­clude Penn State and Geor­getown, but no one team is ex­pected to dominate. 
The Irish will be sending a variety of athletes to Prince­ton. Sophomore Glenn Watson will run in the 55-meter high hurdles. Watson had his best time of the season (7: 39) at last weekend's Alex Wilson Invita­tional, and he will be seeded sixth in the meet. 
Junior Ron Markezich qualified for the 5000 meters with a time of 14:19 at the Central Collegiate Conference Meet. Markezich will be seeded fourth in the IC4A's. Junior David Warth will compete in the 800 meters after qualifying at 1:50:40 in the Ray Meyo In­vitational. 
Notre Dame also has a pair of freshman jumpers par­ticipating this weekend in John Cole and Jeff Smith. Smith qualified in the long jump with a leap of 23' 11 314". Cole will be competing in the high qual­ifying with a jump of 6 feet 10 314 inches. Smith should be seeded lOth while Cole should be seeded eighth. 
Sophomore Chris Com­ponovo will represent the Ir~sh in the pole vault after vaultmg 15' 3" at the Central Collegiate Conference Meet. 
Sophomore Yan Searcy wi~l run in the 500-meter competi­tion after qualifying with a 1 : 04 time at the Indiana Intercol­legiates. The distance medley relay team, comprised of soph­omore Mike Rogan, freshman Robert Harris, sophomore Mike O'Connor, and senior co­captain Dan Garrett will see plenty of action. They will run in the 800 400, 1200, and the 1600­meter competitions. The relay qualified by running 9: ~7 and will be one of the favontes at the meet. 
The Observer 1 AP 

Troy Lewis has led the second-ranked Purdue Boilermakers Into a position to clinch t~e Big 10 championship. The comnference title could very well send the Boilers to the Joyce ACC for the first two 
rounds of the NCAA Tournament. 
EXOTIC BOOTS SALE 
IDAN POST, NOCONA, TONY LAMA, J. CHISHOLM 
I IGUANA LIZARD NOWI19915
Reg. 270°0 ANY STYLE-ANY COLOR MEN'S or LADIES' 
GENUINE ALLIGATOR Reg. 550°0 

NOW139915 
. 

' -~-~~-· 
FULL QUILL OSTRICH Reg. 550°0 

NOW144915 SMOOTH NOW1209's
Reg. 28500

.~---~--~----. 
PYTHON, BOA, WATER SNAKE 
'17~iia5 NOW112915 •122500 
MEN'S & LADIES'
• 

~------------------------~--------------------------------~----~~------------------------------~-------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
·campus 
12 p.m.: Swimming, Men's Midwest Independent Championship trials, 7:30 
p.m. finals, Rolf Aquatic Center. 
12:15 p.m.: Seventh Annual Distinguished Notre Dame Sociology Graduate Lecture, "A Fifth Column Sociologist Report: Emerging Sociological Issues in Biomedical Research," by Dr. Katrina Johnson, National Institute of Health, Washington, D.C., 121' Hayes-Healy Center. 
12:15-1 p.m.: SMC Justice Education Lecture, "Justice in the Context of the 
U.S. Constitution: The History of Freedom of Speech," by Professor Stuart Warner, SMC, Stapleton Lounge. 
3 -5 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture, "Foreign Relations as Political Process, Part 2," by Harold Saunders, The Brookings Institution, Room 110 Law School. Call the liPS office 239-6970 for reservations. 
4 p.m.: Kellogg Institute and the Department of Sociology Lecture, "The Agrarian Bourgeoisie in Nicaragua and El Salvador," by Jeffry Paige, University of Michigan, Room 131 Decio Hall. 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Neutrino Mixing In Matter: Sun, Earth, and SN1987A," by Dr. James Panteleone, Purdue University, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m.: Department of Music Faculty Clarinet Recital with Nicholas Morrison, ND, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30p.m.: SMC Center for Spirituality's Fourth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality, "Women and Teaching: Themes for a Spiritual of Pedagogy," by Maria Harris, nationally-known writer and lecturer on religion and education, O'Laughlin Auditorium, free. 
10-11 p.m.: Campus Perspectives talkshow on WVFI-AM 640 featuring Common Sense with Professor Peter Walshe. 
Dinner Menus  .  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Creole Soup Thin Steak Sandwich Roast Turkey Breast Pork Tenderloin Saute Mushroom Stroganoff Buttered Noodles  Baked Chicken Baked Mostaccioli with Cheese Ground Cheddar Beef with Cheese Sauce Deli bar  

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
Comics · 
Bloom County 

Calvin and Hobbes 
~e~.Cal11in, guess what 
'fle·re doing in 911Y\ tooa1. 
~re. 'flr~stling! 
11a no ha! ~ ~Q then, 
t'Nin\<.~. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Pig food 5 Sentry's word 9 Ice hazard 
13 Tramp 14 Rabbinical 
scholar 16 Lat. abbr. 17 Symbol of 
escapism 19 Buckeye State 20 Calvin of golf 21 Speak to once 
more 23 Ump's call 25 High hill 26 -judicata 27 Belfry denizen 30 Decays 32 Unique 34 Farm measure 36 Mel of 
baseball 37 Stiller's spouse 40 Robert Stack TV series 44 Toulouse-All Rights Reserved 
Lautrec 45 Scot. negative 46 Insult 4 Certain wines 47 Accomplishes 5 Chapeau 49 FBI agent 6 Infant cupid 51 Measures: 7 Rob or 
abbr. Edmund 52 Slalom 8 Trick's 54 Swindle alternative 56 March date 9 "To -not 58 Convents to ..." 
61 Soft drinks 10 In a heavenly 65 Concept way 66 John Derek 11 Lift film 12 Enamel 68 Emily of 15 Zeal etiquette 18 Calendar unit 69 Beverly of 22 Play 
opera 24 Linear 70 Swiss painter measure 71 Being: Lat. 27 Balneation 
72 Lixivia 28 Have pain 73 Sewing line 29 Faddlsm 31 Pricked DOWN 33 Confederate 
1 Ocean vessel soldiers 2 Adore 35 Kangaroo 3 Orchestra 38 Understand 
member 39 Vipers 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 

s •• 'I' ' . T 
I 'IO •

H 0 P UIP L I N E N I N 0 I R E NIE A N T A G A I T P A R T I R I D G,~ 0 N C E I D E S E M0 T E D 
STAPIL.EO­
TARA.ARIA SPARE 0 PART 0 R T SAL AiD WASTE LEAD.RICE 
I~E A R L R OIT T ~ N 
FLO~ *~~~~~~liNER 
L I • I 0 p • 
"I' . T I

ABUT R I ME PII N 0 N P I T H T A A L S A N D 
03103188 41 Relative 57 Hose 42 Undergarment 59 eager 43 Noggin Thurmond 48 Classifies 60 Slippery 50 Aerie 62 Over hill & ­52 Wading bird 63 Cruising 53 Glory 64 Stalk 55 Nothing 67 Naval letters 
Gary Larson 



Although troubled as a child, Zorro, as Is well known, ultimately found his niche In history. 
SUB Presents: starring: Chitty-Chitty Bang Bang Dick Van Dyke & Gert Frobe 
8:00 & I0:30 p.m. 

-
Wednesday & Thursday 
$2.00 

Cushing Auditorium 
Beware of Childcatcher 

Sports
page 16 Thursday, March 3, 1988 
Students fight to reach Bengals finals 

Mike 'High' Noone took the next step toward win­ning a third consecutive Bengal Bouts title on Wednesday night, as the junior from Keenan 
Semifinal winners include both favorites and upstarts 
By PAT KEARNS 'Doomsday' Dieterle around Sports Writer the ring for three rounds, only to lose in a split decision in their Boxing fans packed Stepan bantamweight match. Then Center last night to watch stu­featherweight Chris 'Mad Dog' dents pummel each other for Boroski, after suffering a charity in the semifinals of the bloody nose early on, came 58th annual Bengal Bouts. back to land several strong
The night at the fights in­rights in the second round of cluded wins by many Bengal his match against Eric 'Smilin' Bouts veterans and some im­Feder. Despite Boroski's ef­pressive showings by new­forts, he lost in another split comers. decision. 
Bantamweight John 'All Later in the night, Junior Man' Manfredy started off the Mike 'High' Noone was veryevening right with a show of impressive in his unanimous boxing skill in his unanimous decision over Mike 'Mr. 
decision over Mike 'The Magoo' Joyce. Noone poundedPolecat' Polcari. The smaller away on Joyce early and often, Manfredy kept his distance but Joyce somehow managed to 
from Polcari and landed his left remain standing for the dura­jab effectively throughout the tion of the fight. match to have his hand raised In a bit of an upset, Tim 'T­for a unanimous decision. Bone' Reardon took David 
The crowd then saw two 'Sugar' Kane the distance to matches that ended in ques­win their Junior Welterweighttionable calls by the judges. bout. Reardon was slightlyUnorthodox crowd favorite Eric 'Dingo' Becker chased Joe see BENGALS, page 10 

Olympians need country's support 
The close of the 1988 Winter Olympics has left many Americans wondering what happened to the stars of the past Olympics. 
The especially disappointing losses of both Dan Jansen and Debi Thomas crushed the spirit of many Americans. The Americans sadly ended-up with only six medals. 
There were more Olympic stars performing in the broad­casting booth for ABC then performing on the ice and snow for America. 
People always look forward to the excitement of the Olympics, unfortunately that excitement is severely dampened when the total number of medals won in the entire Olympics is less than then some Olympians have won in their single event. 
The Olympic Committee realized the need for a change, so they put George Steinbrenner in charge of an improve­ment committee. Now that change is a big one, but only time will tell if it is a change for the better. 
Jane Shea 

Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The prominence of Steinbrenner brings more attention to what he will do. The New York Yankees have not won a World Series in a long time, but when they did win they won convincingly. Perhaps Steinbrenner can put America back on that winning track. 
The American Olympians need the support of the country more now than they ever have. The losers always need more attention than the winners. 
Instead of making jokes or whining about how poorly the Olympians performed, people should find solutions. America must never again let their athletes suffer so many 
losses. Lack of money is a problem that needs to be remedied. People love to support a winning team and if people believe that the Americans will win, they will support them. 
Americans can produce the best athletes in the world if the time and money put into them exceeds that of other countries. 
Young athletes need the inspiration of past Olympic greats like Dorothy Hamil and Eric Heiden to encourage them to strive for excellence. 
The 1988 Winter Olympics lacked the heros of the past, and showed the need for improvement by the Americans athletes and people. 
The Observer I Rob Aeqovich 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team blew 50 last night In Chicago. Dennis Corrigan details 
out the University of Illinois-Chicago Flames 79-the Irish win below. 
Irish douse weak Flames 79-50 
after slow first half performance 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
CHICAGO -Notre Dame head 
coach Muffet McGraw said 
before Wednesday night's 
game at Illinois-Chicago that 
her team needed a big win to 
wash away the after effects of 
Sunday's heartbreaking loss to 
DePaul. 

While .the 79-50 win over the Flames was big scorewise, it wasn't the type of win that she had expected. 
UIC, which fell to 2-25 with the loss, trailed only 29-28 at the half and were down 37-35 with 16:19 to play. That's when the Irish turned up their heat, outscoring the Flames 21-2 for the next 6: 21, to end any hopes of an upset that would have been near biblical proportions. 
"It really wasn't (what we sing shots. Frascati had 14 expected)," McGraw said of points in the half and 21 for the the win which raised her game. At the 13:05 mark, team's record to 19-7. "We McGraw took out four of her didn't play with any intensity. starters in an effort to shake We shot the ball very poorly for up her squad, but even that us, but I think it was the lack didn't work. on the half, the of intensity and a lack of con-Irish commited 14 turnovers centration. and shot 11-of-23 from the floor 
"We were almost careless (47 percent). with the basketball. We turned After starting out slowly It over too much, and we didn't again in the second half, the guard anybody on defense." Irish pressure began to crack 
the Flames--forcing them intoNotre Dame started out 16 turnovers, most of whichlooking as if it would make turned into easy Irish scores.
quick work of UIC, jumping out The Irish didn't shoot much to a 7-0 lead at the 16:21 mark. 
better in the second half, 48 per­But then the Irish went cold, cent (20-of-41), but a hugeand the Flames, well, got hot. 
rebounding margin gave theRobyn Frascati hit the first of Irish numerous second andher four first-half three­third chance shots. For thepointers to get the Flames on game, Notre Dame out­the board, while the Irish began rebounded UIC 65-22, includingturning the ball over and mis­21-3 on the offensive glass. 




