Light 'n' lively
IACCENT: The facts on alcohol: part 2 70 percent chance of light snow Tuesday. High around 
30. A 60 percent chance of light snow Tuesday night. Low 
IVIEWPOINT: Race relations at NDSMC 

in the low 20s. 



TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1988 VOL XXI, NO. 81 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Prospects good for change of grading system 
By GREG LUCAS posal at the executive commit­council at the Feb. 16 meeting. would be difficult to make and posal, if approved, would most Copy Editor tee meeting for the Academic The council had discussed the might tend to be arbitrary. likely go into effect ne.~t year.Council. proposal last semester, said Kinkopf said that he felt con­The proposal will not include 
Prospects for the addition of The executive committee Kinkopf. "the reaction was pos­fident the proposal would be ap­"A+" or "D+" grades,plus grades to the current sets the agenda for the Aca­itive then, but not really enthu­proved at the upcoming Aca­Kinkopf said. Notre Dame grading system demic Council, which is com­siastic," he said. demic Council meeting The "B +" grade would are looking good, according to posed of administrators, fac­because of the strong senate carry a 3.33 grade point and an Dave Kinkopf, sophomore ulty members and four Kinkopf said that the only support and the overwhelming "A-" would be pushed up to a class president. students, Kinkopf said. real opposition to the proposal student opinion in favor of the 3.67 grade point, Kinkopf said, 
Kinkopf told the Student Sen­Kinkopf said the committee had come from some of the pro­change that was expressed in adding that a similar division ate Monday that "the support decided to allow the Registrar fessors who felt that divisions last semester's student survey. would be made for the "C +" was pretty good," for the pro-to resubmit the issue to the between an "A-" and a "B+" Kinkopf said that the pro-and "B-" grades. 
Malloy doubts AIDS test plan 
By KENDRA MORRILL which has to be guaranteed," Copy Editor Malloy said. Thirdly, said Malloy, "there 
University President Father must be sufficient reason to Edward Malloy said he has think that there are enough in­doubts whether Surgeon Gen­cidences of AIDS in a given lo­eral C. Everett Koop's proposal cation to require testing ... for mandatory AIDS testing at There is not a lot of evidence a university this spring is that institutes of higher educa­"desirable or feasible." tion are places where AIDS 
Koop announced last cases have been discovered." Thursday that he wanted to Because of these reasons, screen every student of a major Malloy said, he would not want American university this an AIDS screening to occur at spring to help determine the in­Notre Dame. "No one is im­cidence of AIDS among young mune to the possibility of adults. AIDS," Malloy said, "but I've
The hills are alive 

The test would be completely never seen evidence of any Members of Notre Dame's Austrian, English, French, Austria. Because of the unusually warm weather there anonymous, according to problem sufficient to warrant Irish and Italian foreign studies programs have a this winter, the students had to resort to playing soc­Koop. "The goal would be to investigation." ··summit meeting" atop the Alps near Kitzbuhel, cer instead of skiing. test everybody in that univer­Malloy would not comment 
sity in such a way that it's done on whether anyone at Notre out in the open, above-board; Dame had ever contracted everyone knows that the blood AIDS.

Sen. Inouye: 'error in judgment' 
specimen is not in any way Notre Dame has had an offi­tagged," said Koop. cial AIDS policy for a couple of Associated Press United States, such a program Wolfson sits on the board of A university has not yet been years, according to Malloy.would violate the constitutional Ozar Hatorah, the group that chosen, he said, but it would "People ought to be educated 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Daniel separation of church and state. was slated to get the $8 million. probably be one in a large city about AIDS, and educated to Inouye, saying "I have made Inouye, in an emotional Inouye said he would "move with a student body of about being compassionate and sup­an error in judgment," told the speech on the Senate floor, said as quickly as possible" in the 25,000. portive of people with AIDS," Senate Monday that he wants he continued to believe that his Senate to have the appropria­"Surgeon General Koop is in he said. Congress to rescind $8 million actions in pushing for the pro­tion rescinded. He said he also a difficult dilemma,'' said Mal­A female Notre Dame stu­to build schools in France for gram were appropriate, and he had asked Rep. David Obey, loy. "Everyone wants to do dent said she wouldn't care if North African Jews. attacked his critics. "to place before the House a what they can to prevent AIDS the AIDS test were given at 
But Inouye, defended his ac­Several members of bill to rescind the $8 million." from spreading, but (people) Notre Dame. "If they included tion in supporting the program, Congress told The AP they "I have made an error in differ in opinion of how to do it it as part of an entrance physi­which drew • widespread were leery of the $8 million judgement," he declared. "I . . . Is this the best way?" cal maybe it wouldn't seem like criticism from members of project, but voted for it after fear that I have embarrassed a big deal," she said. Congress, the Reagan adminis­Inouye pressed hard for the my colleagues. I intend to cor­Malloy said he does not Another female student said tration and civil liberties money. rect that error." believe university students she would worry who would see groups. Zev Wolfson, a New York should be tested for AIDS for the results. "What would hap­
real estate developer, gave In­Only a few senators were on several reasons, one of which pen if you tested positive? Unicn and the American Jewish ouye a $1,000 campaign contri­the floor when Inouye spoke. is the great expense of such a Would they make you leave the 
Committee both were looking bution -the maximum for an in­But Sen. Mark Hatfield comprehensive test. University?" she asked. 
into the legality of building re­dividual -for his last Senate defended Inouye as a "man of Second is the "question of ligious schools abroad. In the race in 1986. complete and total integrity." freedom of participation, see AIDS, page 6 


Mecham refuses to answer panel attorneys' questions 
Associated Press lican, said lawmakers would minal charges accusing him of House questions with "no con­time as you decide you will 
discuss whether to subpoena concealing a $350,000 campaign ditions," said he would answer comply with our rules." 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -Gov. Evan the governor, hold him in con­loan. questions from lawmakers but Mecham denied wrongdoing tempt or forego his testimony "I am in this case the ac­not from their attorneys. The House could decide by Monday before a House panel in deciding whether to impeach cused, not just another wit­mid-week whether to impeach considering his possible im­him. ness," Mecham told House "Governor, it's obvious that Mecham, Lane has said. If the peachment, but the hearing Also Monday, Mecham, in of­select committee Chairman you feel that you should not governor is impeached, Secre­was abruptly adjourned when fice just barely over a year, Jim Skelly. comply with the rules that tary of State Rose Mofford, a he refused to answer questions was ordered to face a recall every other witness has com­Democrat, would take over as from House attorneys. election on May 17. He also The governor, who previ­plied with," Skelly said. He ad­acting governor while Mecham 
Speaker Joe Lane, a Repub-faces a March 9 trial on cri-ously had promised to answer journed the hearing "until such faced trial in the Senate. 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988
page 2 The Observer 

On golden dome pond: a student's reflections 

In Brief 0 
The Hoosier Dome came crashing down Monday when an inch of rain water which had accumulated on the 257-ton roof the day before tore a 40-foot-long rip in the fabric. No major .damage was reported, despite the wa~er that poured in. Officials are as of yet unable to determme the cause. -Associated Press 


Of Interest · 
Residence hall contracts for the 1988-89 academic year must be signed and returned to the Office of Student Residences by 5 p.m. Any student now living on campus must return the contract. Students planning on moving off-campus next year should mark their card "OC" and return it. -The Observer 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education invites the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to its dedication reception at 4:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 5 in Room 210 of the LaFortune Student Center. For informa­tion, contact David Dannison at 239-7970. -The Observer 
Off-campus juniors planning on attending a hall party on JPW must submit a piece of paper with your name and the dorm you wish to attend before Feb. 10. This informa­tion should be brought to the junior class office on the second floor of LaFortune. -The Observer 
Lynn Blankenship, a representative from the Christian Appalachian Program will be in the library concourse from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and in the Center for Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. All who are interested or have questions are welcome to stop by. -The Observer 
Model United Nations will be having a very important organizational meeting at 6:30 p.m. in Room 123 Nieuwland. At least one member from each delegation should plan to attend. -The Observer 
Edward Cronin, Professor Emeritus, will do readings from James Joyce in honor of his birthday tonight at 7:30 in the Faculty Lounge of the Hesburgh Library. For more information contact the secretary of the Friends of the Library at Notre Dame at 239-7780. -The Observer 
World Hunger Coalition, along with the Overseas Development Network, will be showing the film "Five Minutes to Midnight" and holding a meeting tonight at 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited to attend. 
-The Observer 

The ISO will hold a general meeting at 7 p.m. in the ISO lounge in LaFortune to discuss all upcoming events, especially the annual international festival. -The Observer 
A candle Mass will be held tonight at 8 at 446 South Harris Street. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
TheJugglerArtandLiteraryMagazineisnowaccepting submissions for the Spring 1988 issue. Bring art or written work to the English Office on the third floor of O'Shaughnessey. -The Observer 
An Tostal '88 needs a mobilization chairman for set up and organization of the events. For more information call Colleen at 4034 or David at 277-9237. -The Observer 
Students without majors are invited to a Career Decision-Making Workshop at the University Counseling Center from 6:30 to 8 p.m. on Feb. 15-18, 22-25. For more information, call Bart, Julie, or Rita at 239-7336. -The Ob­server 

Design Editor . . . . . . . . Matt Breslin Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Brian Conway Design Assistant .............. Michelle Dall Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner Typesetters .. Becky Gunderman Accent Copy Editor ....... Theresa Loomis News Editor............. ........... Chris Julka Accent Layout... .......... Kathleen Moran Copy Editor ............•........ Matt Crowley ND Day Editors ... David Lee Sports Copy Editor .......... Theresa Kelly Photographer........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jim Carroll 
'ne ot.ner (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriaa exam and vacation periods. 'ne Obeener is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina 'ne Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46556. 
'ne Olllener ua member of 'ne .u.octated Pnu. All reproduction riahts arc racrvcd. 
I have never considered myself a "gung ho" Notre Dame student. Sure I watch every foot­ball game, know the fight song, and even saw "Knute Rockne All American" once. The sight of the Dome, however, does not bring tears to my eyes nor do I feel that Notre Dame is heaven on earth. I lack the attachment to this school which others have because none of my family went to Notre Dame. The main reason why I came here is because Notre Dame is a good school, nothing more. 
During the fall of my junior year I went to Washington D.C. for the semester, and consid­ering my relative ambivalence towards Notre Dame, I did not expect to miss this place very much. I found Washington considerably more stimulating than Notre Dame both intellec­tually and socially. The people I met were much more aware and concerned about issues and events than most Notre Dame students. As far as the social , scene, nothing in South Bend hardly comes close to Georgetown's bars and clubs. 
With all of these reasons not to miss Notre Dame imagine my surprise when I found that occasionally I wished I was back beneath the golden dome. Naturally, I missed my friends and the campus in general. You do not realize how beautiful a campus we have until you spend time at a school built upon a city block whose buildings reflect the worst of 1960's architec­ture. There is one thing at Notre Dame, however, that I missed the most, and now that I am a senior I have realized I will continue to miss it once I leave: St. Mary's Lake. 
I know itmay sound odd that someone could come to miss a lake. After all, there are thousands of lakes scattered across America, and no matter where 1end up I will probably be near one. My attachment to St. Mary's Lake, though, does not stem solely from the beauty of the lake, but from the purpose the lake con­tinues to serve for me; a refuge from the world where I can get in touch with myself, others, and God. I have so many emotions and memories related to St. Mary's Lake that I can­not help but view the lake as an overwhelming part of my life at Notre Dame. 
I find an indescribable sense of peace and contentment whenever following the well-worn path around St. Mary's Lake. Life takes on a comforting order and clarity when it is con­templated upon the lake's banks. I am not sure why I experience this. Perhaps it is because of the scenery and the sound of gently lapping water. Whatever the reason, I find that whether happy or sad, I continue to return to the shores of St. Mary's. 

The times I have gone to St. Mary's Lake are numerous, but will never be forgotten. Often I visited the lake because I had writer's block which would soon melt away after walking on the lake's path. Other times I went just to be alone and straighten things out. The most im­portant memories attached to St. Mary's Lake, however, are those experienced during life's most trying moments. After I learned that my grandmother had died, my friends and I imme­diately went to St. Mary's Lake knowing that somehow it would all make sense there. Once a friend came into my room saying he did not know where his life was going or what to do with himself, but after taking a walk around the lake his future became clearer. Last fall I had to say goodbye to a person who I care for very much and would not see for over six months. Some of our last moments were spent along St. Mary's Lake. 
When I return to Notre Dame in the future I will probably drag my family all over campus pointing out the buildings and landmarks that made up my college· days. When we reach St. Mary's Lake, however, I do not think I will be able to convey the sentiment I attach to that lake. Simple words would not adequately describe the place which has shaped who I am and holds so many precious memories. 

r.._..._....._.~..-...-..~._.....-...-...-.c~..-.~........-....-....._.._..~~·~ 
Applications for Theodore's
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE 


Student Managers for the
UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS 


1988-1989 school year will be 
MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF 


available in the Student 
THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 


Activities Office 
rn1c: \\\.!I...fs \\'(' b~'(' by 


after Feb. 5. They must 
J----~-J!!~~g_i!!l>LE~ll.:-2~~­
• 
•
• 



~ s ,-£/A \ti011t~o '' 
~ ~'"\IJ ~NJ.iert .orrt
CDrt0'rr v (li0t'L G' _]-,tt't 

00 (!31 v \Jve 3t Theodore's ;j)~~t'll · Saturday, February 6 Sponsored by SUB and Theodore's 10:00 p.m. 

You Want AGreat Display Of Portable Power? 

The Zenith Data Systems Z-1H3 Laptop PC 
~ugge~!ed retail price: our price only: 

$3599.00 ~2050.00 
~-­
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 

Meese: no recall of payoff memo 
about it," Reagan said. 

Associated Press 
"The language in Mr. Wal­

WASHINGTON -Attorney lach's memorandum that has General Edwin Meese said given rise to this speculation Monday that he did not recall consists of ten words in one of reading the portion of a memo two long documents he pro­on a $1 billion Iraqi pipeline vided to me," Meese said in his project that referred to a statement. payoff plan involving the Is­"I do not recall having read raeli Labor Party of former the specific words that have Prime Minister Shimon Peres. now mushroomed into impor­
The memo to Meese, from his tance, but I certainly did not 
longtime friend, attorney receive from the memorandum Robert Wallach, is the focus of any impression of illegality a criminal investigation of whatsoever," the attorney gen­Meese's activities by indepen­eral said. dent counsel James McKay He added that the memoran­that began nearly nine months dum, which is classified and ago. which he refused to outline in 
After receiving Wallach's detail, "contains no reference memo in 1985, Meese took no to bribes or payoffs." action in regard to the potential The attorney general said 
illegal activity mentioned in that "I do not believe" that the 
the document, sources familiar memo "fairly implies that a with McKay's investigation violation of law was committed have said. or contemplated" in regard to 
Meese said that since Friday, the pipeline. when the memo's existence Wallach was representing was first disclosed in the Los Bruce Rappaport, a wealthy 
Angeles Times, "there has Swiss businessman aligned 
been a cascade of misinforma­with Peres. Rappaport was a tion, false headlines, half­principal in the pipeline proj­truths, innuendo, and misun­ect. 
derstanding of the law." Wallach was in the "habit of 
Meese responded with a five­giving me lengthy memoranda page statement which he read on many subjects," said to reporters. He refused to an­Meese. "I rarely had time to swer any questions and walked read them thoroughly, particu­
out of the room as a reporter larly when they dealt -as these asked him whether he would two did -with subjects outside remain as attorney general. my responsibilities as attorney 
President Reagan, returning general." 
from a speech he delivered to Wallach, now under indict­
an audience of religious ment for racketeering in the 
broadcasters, was asked about Wedtech scandal, has been a 
Meese's situation. "No com­close friend of Meese's for ment. I'm not going to talk three decades. 
page 3 

w~/,_ /JIJ~~II
Broken illusions 
A Notre Dame student's notion that his car was safe of a continuing run of bad luck; under the glass frag­in the D-6 parking lot were shattered when this car's ments lies a parking ticket on the dashboard. windshield was found smashed. Apparently this is part 



Purdue baby prompts calls 
Associated Press  ported more than 25 phones calls Monday from people con­ care, institutionalization further medical attention.  and  
Callers to Tippecanoe County  cerned about the baby.  
authorities  offered  adoption  "People want to  see  if the  Stahl said the baby will likely  
and  foster  care  Monday  for  baby's going to be all right,"  be put up for adoption if the  
"Baby Adam," an infant aban­ said  Elaine  Stahl,  executive  mother does not come forward  
doned over the weekend in a  director of the Department's  within six months.  
Purdue  University  married  Child Protective Services divi­ 
student housing laundry room.  sion.  "We could place the baby for  
Police  continued  searching  Home Hospital nursing  su­ adoption right away if she'll  
Monday for the child, who was  pervisor Becky Baker reported  sign over parental rights," she  
named Baby Adam by the staff  that the child  was  in "great  said. "We're also interested in  
at Home Hospital in Lafayette.  condition" Monday night.  the mom. We feel this is a des­ 
In Anderson, meanwhile, an  perate type of  move  and she  
Arkansas mother facing a ne­glect charge for allegedly  Juvenile Court Judge Mar­garet Hand turned Baby Adam  might need some support ser­vices."  
leaving a son behind at a high­ over  to Child Protective Ser­ 
way rest stop pleaded with a  vices and said welfare officials  Purdue campus police have  
judge to retain custody of her  would attend a hearing within  requested various local health  
children.  72 hours to recommend what  and social agencies to watch  
The Tippecanoe County De­ type of care the child should  for a woman seeking post-birth  
partment of Public Welfare re- receive. Options include foster  care or counseling.  

The Zenith I>ata Systems Z-lH:~ PC gives you all the power of a desktop in a lightweight, laptop PC. Plus it features a dazzling blue backlit LCD screen for great readability. Along with 20 megabyte hard-disk with single floppy drive for expanded storage. And you'll get longer battery life than with most competitive, hard-disk laptops. Added to this, are some important extras ... 
Like service and support you can count on. As an authorized Zenith I>ata Systems dealer, we'll help you configure your new system. (;ive you a full demonstra­tion. And match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met. 
So come talk to us. Here's our calling card! 
Demo Lab 9-12 M-F Room 113 Computing Center -x7689 Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 

71-*""ldata
systems 

AUTHORIZED DEALER 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988
The Observer 
.. :..; ............. . 
... 
•':: 
_; i~ .


~:1 What is HyperCardTM? lj[ : ·. :· :: :~ 
:, :: 

Learn about the most exciting development in computer software since the Macintosh'· 0/S.
: ·i .: 


ji j! 

• 
) ~ 

At the Apple®HyperCard'" Seminar. 
Wednesday, February 3 

10:00 am and 2:00pm 115 Computing Ctr/Math Building. 
See why Higher Education will never be the same.:{: 



Apple and the Apple Logo are registered tr2dc:m.arks of Apple Computcr,lnc. Macintosh and Hypercard are trademarks of Apple Computet Inc. 

Tuesday, February 2, 1988 
Reagan: Contra aid will ensure peace 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan argued Monday that Nicaragua's leftist leaders would not comply with a regional peace plan without a "threat hanging over them" and that his $36.2 million Con­tra aid package would do the trick. 
Meanwhile, the White House scrambled to make the aid package palatable to doubtful House members as the out­come of Wednesday's high­stakes vote remained in the hands of some 20 fence-sitters. 
"One question must be an­swered. Sandinista promises of the past have been broken. Can we believe them now?" Reagan said in a speech to the National Religious Broadcasters. 
The president argued that the Sandinista government has reneged on a string of pledges to democratize, and that unless aid to the Contras is continued, it will do the same thing again. 
"The Sandinistas haven't made one concession on their own without a threat hanging over them," he said. 
"It's just this simple -the way to democracy and peace in Nicaragua is to keep the pres­sure on the Sandinistas, taking irreversible steps to comply with the regional peace plan, and giving aid to the freedom fighters now," Reagan said to his enthusiastic audience at a Washington hotel. 
The president's plea was part of a last-ditch lobbying drive that will culminate Tuesday in a televised address from the Oval Office. 
But as Reagan spoke, the anti-Contra lobbying intensi­fied on Capitol Hill and Demo­cratic leaders exuded confidence they are headed for victory in Wednesday's vote in the House. 
The president is fighting for a package that includes $3.6 million for ammunition and anti-aircraft missiles, which would be placed in escrow and released after March 31 if he alone decides that the regional peace process has not succeeded. 
The remaining $32 million in non-lethal aid covers every­thing from food, clothing, medical supplies, vehicles and spare parts for vehicles to money to lease aircraft and buy communications gear for troops in the field. 
Critics of the package con­tend it would hamper the Central American peace process at a critical juncture, while the administration argues the Contra rebels will wither away if the four-month aid plan isn't approved. 
__,.~· 

Drawing the battle lines 
As part of the Super Bowl festivities, Chuck Krantz of North Hollywood symbolizes the division of America last weekend, letting disc jockeys Mark Thompson and Brian Phelps paint his head in the red of the Aedskins and blue for the Broncos. 
•••••APPLICATIONs••••: 

: are now being accepted for : Building Supervisors for 88-89 • of
• 

: LAFORTUNE STUDENT : CENTER & : STEPAN CENTER
• 

: Apply at the Office of Student : Activities 
• 315 LaFortune Student Center 
•

: Deadline for submitting applicationS: • February 22, 1988 • 
: 
: 
•
• 
: 
: 
:• 
: : • 
• 

The Observer page 5




-... 
-:-•·: 
\ 
' 
AP Laser Photo 

Troubled zone 

An Israeli soldier stares down a photographer in the residents and occupation troops Monday, leading to occupied Gaza Strip. Clashes resumed between Arab two deaths and wounding at least seven. Story below. 

Israelis gun down 
Associated Press 
ANABTA, Occupied West Bank -Israelis killed two Arabs and wounded three others Mon­day when they opened fire on a crowd of stone-throwing Palestinians who had trapped a convoy of soldiers and civilians, the army said. 
Soldiers wounded four Arabs in two other clashes, a military spokesman said. The Arab­owned Palestine Press Service put the number of Arabs wounded by gunfire at 22 and provided a list of names. 
Troops battled Palestinians in protests throughout the West Bank and Gaza Strip, leaving more than a dozen Arabs hospi­talized with beating injuries 

Breast cancer death rate rising 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The breast cancer detection rate among American women is the highest on record but death rates have increased slightly instead of improving from early treat­ment as experts had hoped, ac­cording to a federal study released Monday. 

The study, compiled by the National Cancer Institute to reflect rates of incidence and death from all types of cancer, said breast cancer is still the leading cause of death from malignancy among women. 
It says this finding suggests 
Shamrock Apartment Motel 
Wir Sprechen Deutsct;, On Parle Francais, Sl Parla Italiano, Se Habla Espanol. 


Large~ B~. Apts., Efficiency Apts., Hotel Rc;>oms, Heated ~ool, Air Conditlonmg, 1-ieat, Color TV, AM-FM Radio, Barbecue Pit, Parking, Laundry Room, 3 Short Blocks to Beach, 20 min. from Ft. Lauderdale Airport, and close to Galleria Shopping Mall, Gourmet Restaurants, Ocean World, Atlantis Six Flags Water Theme Park, Tennis Courts Golf and many more Attractions. FREE HBO ' 
Hotel Elllclency 1BR 2BR/2Bath12/14-1/6 $45 $55 $65 $105 1/7-2/7 41 48 57 90 
218-4/30 58 68 78 125 511-12/13 24 29 35 55 

800-247-2506 (US & CAN.) FL Call Collect: 305-566-1432 555 Antioch Ft. Lauderda FL 33304 
women are not taking advan­tage of screening techniques that could detect breast cancer at a stage when cure is more likely, although detection of breast cancer is at the highest rate in history. 
The study also said that al­though lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer deaths, the death rate decreased among males in 1985 but continues to increase in wo­men. 
NCI used various studies to compile a report generally reflecting cancer statistics for 1950 to 1985, with some cancer estimates for 1987. It said the and three soldiers mJured by stones. 
The renewed violence caused the first deaths from gunfire since Jan. 15 and brought to 41 the confirmed Arab death toll in the rioting that began Dec. 
8. It came as the United States was exploring ways to revive the stalled Middle East peace process. 
Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin said he hoped the new 
U.S. initiative would lead to po­litical negotiations, but he warned that Israel would use force and collective punish­ment to quell protests. 
"I just want to make it clear to Palestinian residents of the territories that we are ready ­even if it demands lengthy ac­tion-to act with force," he said report is "a very general pic­ture" of cancer incidence, mor­tality and survival. 
"The lack of a large decline in mortality is strong evidence that little effective screening is taking place because clinical trials have shown that early de­tection through mammog­raphy and physical examination with appropriate follow-up can reduce the mor­tality rate from this disease by over 30 percent," the report said. 
Breast cancer rates among American women are between 104 and 107 per 100,000, "the highest incidence rates ever re­corded," the report said, and up 17 percent from 1975 to 1985. 
For young cancer patients, the future looks brighter. Mor­tality rates among patients un­der 15 was about 3.5 per 100,000 in 1985, a decrease of about 33 percent over 35 years, the report says. 
But the results of breast can­cer detection and treatment are not as good as experts had hoped, the report said. 


2 Arabs 
on Israel TV's Arabic-language 
program. 
In response to the upsurge of 
violence, the army clamped 
curfews on seven refugee 
camps and two towns. 
In Anabta, a town about 60 
miles northwest of Jerusalem, 
hundreds of protesters bar­
ricaded the Nablus-Tulkarem 
highway and stoned Israeli 
vehicles, an army spokes­
woman said, speaking on con­
dition of anonymity. 
Two civilian cars, a police ve­
hicle and a bus carrying sol­
diers were trapped by the 
crowd. Some of the Israelis got 
out of their cars and opened 
fire, killing two Arabs and 
wounding one, the spokes­
woman said. 



The Observer Tuesday, February 2, 1988
page 6 
AIDS test) wouldn't bother me, now (AIDS') prevalence is but that's more my nature than such that there may be target

AIDS 
a political statement. It's inter­populations, but we can't focus
continued from page 1 
esting how they're not telling only on those because it's 
Both students said they think anyone (the results of the through the whole population. the AIDS testing would be a tests). It's not going to help (The results) may be interest­violation of the rights of stu­anyone. It's not going to help a ing but they're not practical, dents. person who has it." especially if they're not in­Said a male student: "(The The student continued: "By tended help actual carriers." 
ATTENTION JUNIORS: DINNER AND BRUNCH 
TABLE REGISTRATION 
WHERE: WEST POINT ROOM 1st floor LaFortune Feb. 1, 7-10
WHEN: 
Feb. 2, 9-11 Feb. 3. 7-1 o There will be 9 people per table and you DO NOT 
have to sit with the same group twice. Also clustering of tables together in general area is possible. Student ID is required and bring along your ZIP CODE 
from your home address You must be id in order to be seated!! 
When? Wed., Feb. 3 & Thurs., Feb. 4 7:30pm Where? Room 118 O'Shaughnessy 
*We need singers & musicians to perform in the first N.D. Broadway Revue. 
*Singers should bring one prepared piece (preferably a Broadway number) to tryouts. 
*Singers should try to provide their own accompaniment. 


For more information, call Tom Howley 283-1368 
Sponsored by SUB 
•

Liberal sex v1ews revealed 
Associated Press 16-year-olds and 29 percent of information about sex. 
the 15-year-olds said they had Seventy-three percent said 
WASHINGTON -More than sexual intercourse at least they got little or no information 40 percent of teen-agers who at­once. about sex from their church. tend conservative churches, in­The poll, which was con­The teen-agers in the survey cluding members of two ducted in personal interviews were predominantly white, denominations based in with a national sample of 1,000 from stable home environ­Indiana, have had sexual inter­teen-agers, had a margin of er­ments and described them­course by the age of 18, while ror of three percentage points. selves as A or B students. one-third decline to brand sex Fran Griffin, a spokes­Forty-four percent were outside marriage as morally woman for the evangelical from the central states and 27 unacceptable, according to a study, said that survey had a percent from the South. study released Monday. margin of error of three Eighty-three percent of the 
The "Teen Sex Survey in the percentage points. teen-agers said they are Evangelical Church" found Sixty-five percent of those weekly church-goers, while 82 that 43 percent of the surveyed said intercourse by percent said they know Jesus "churched youth" who unmarried couples was never Christ as their personal savior. responded to a confidential, morally acceptable, the study Sixty-seven percent agreed four-page questionnaire had reported. that the Bible is a "totally reli­sexual intercourse by their 18th Eight percent of the respon­able guide for all situations." birthday. dents said intercourse was al­The eight denominations that 
Thirty-five percent of the 17-ways morally acceptable be­conducted the survey were The year-olds said they had en­tween unmarried but willing Church of the Nazarene, based gaged in sexual intercourse, people, while 17 percent said it in Kansas City, Mo.; Evangeli­while 26 percent of the 16-year­was sometimes acceptable and cal Covenant Church, Omaha, olds said they had intercourse. 11 percent were not sure. Neb.; Church of God, 
The questionnaire was given Forty-two percent of the Cleveland, Tenn.; Free Meth­to 1,438 young people, aged 12 teen-agers said they had odist Church, Winona Lake, In­to 18, last June and August. fondled the breasts of a mem­d.; Lutheran Church-Missouri Eight evangelical denomina­ber of the opposite sex, while Synod, St. Louis; Grace Bret­tions conducted the survey of 33 percent said they had heren Church, Winona Lake, the churched youths, who they fondled a partner's genitals. Ind.; The Wesleyan Church, In­describe as teen-agers who are Thirty-eight percent of the dianapolis, Ind.; and The regular attenders. survey group said they obtain Salvation Army, Verona, N.J. 
By comparison, a Louis Har­most of their information about Each denomination selected ris and Associates poll in sex from their friends, while 27 between 12 and 50 churches to December 1986 found that 57 percent listed movies as their participate in the survey. percent of the nation's main source and 23 percent · The Josh McDowell Ministry 17-year-olds are sexually expe­said parents and schools of Dallas commissioned the rienced, while 46 percent of the classes provided much of their study. 



Speaker yet to be announced 
By DAVID T. LEE of roughly five candidates reduced to 30 after rejecting Staff Reporter which is drawn from sugges­some of the more inappropriate tions made by various groups suggestions. She said there was 
Those who have been won­such as the Board of Trustees "no high priority person." dering about who will be this and the Senior Class. year's commencement Senior Class President Diane "We have input, but we do speaker will have to wait and Fitzgibbon said the Senior not have any kind of final say," wonder a little longer. Class submitted a list of some said Fitzgibbon. "It has a lot 
University President Father 30 candidates based upon a sur­to do with who is available." Edward 'Monk' Malloy vey sent out to seniors last se­She felt seniors would be declined to disclose any infor­mester. The survey asked the happy with the selection, mation regarding the speaker Class of 1988 to choose the per­saying Father Malloy would for the commencement exer­son they would like to see "put a lot of time into it." cises of the Class of 1988. speak. Malloy said the speaker 
Malloy said he would an­Fitzgibbon said she could not should be 'articulate' and nounce the speaker within the remember the names on the "speak on something impor­month or two months at the list. tant." latest. Senior Class Council mem­Fitzgibbon agreed that the 
He did not mention any pos­ber Sarah Janicki said the list person "would have something sibilities, but noted the selec­of possible speakers submitted to say to seniors graduating at tion is made from a revised list by the Senior Class was this time." 

A mother's smile 
The Duke and Duchess of York made an appearance at the premier of a movie in London. The Duchess, back from a trip to New York City, made her first public appearance since the announcement that she is expecting a baby in August. 

Weinberger awarded honorary knighthood 
Associated Press man said Weinberger would be appointed an Honorary Knight Grand Cross of the 
LONDON -Former U.S. Most Excellent Order of the Defense Secretary Caspar British Empire. Weinberger has been awarded an honorary The honor entitles British knighthood, the Weinberger to place the ini­Foreign Office said Monday. tials "GBE," for Grand 
Queen Elizabeth II ap­Cross British Empire, after proved the award on the re­his surname, but he will not commendation of Foreign be allowed to call himself Secretary Sir Geoffrey "Sir Caspar." Only British Howe in recognition of subjects are allowed to use Weinberger's "outstanding the "sir" designation. and invaluable" contribu­Weinberger, 70, retired as tion to defense cooperation defense secretary Nov. 5, between Britain and the 1987 after seven years in the United States, the Foreign Reagan administration. He Office said. was replaced by Frank Car­
Weinberger is to receive lucci. the knighthood from the Since Weinberger will be queen at Buckingham receiving an honorary Palace either Feb. 22 or 23. knighthood, he will not go 
A palace spokeswoman through the traditional cer­said she thought Weinberger emony in which the recipient would be the first former kneels and is tapped on each 
U.S. cabinet official to shoulder by the queen with receive an honorary a sword. Instead, the queen knighthood. will simply hand him the in­
A foreign office spokes-signia of his order. 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Accent 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 page 7 

Simple treasures 
JAY CIOTTI accent writer 

Editor's note: Jay is spending the year after graduation as a Holy Cross Associate in Hayward, California. He works with developmentally disabled adults at C. 0. R. E. and lives in community with four other graduates of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. 
dancing to a blues band In Oak­
land 
watching sunsets on Baker Beach 
an evening at a gay bar 
a BART car full of commuters 
with the same smug look 
Of all my experiences this year, the only one which beats 
• throwing the winning touch­down pass to Anne in our rout cause, as I have learned, these who greet me each day are not what I expected. The folks at 
C.O.R.E. are developmentally disabled --mentally retarded ... They're all adults. Some are 24; one is 84. Some live at home; others have lived in state hospitals for sixty years. None of them can live indepen­dently. 
All of them are trying to ad­just to a world which I don't even understand sometimes. Sometimes they get it; some­times they don't. It can be quite depressing to see how they struggle, how uncertain their fate Is, how they strive to comprehend and conquer the disabilities they have always had. 

A C.O.R.E. participant shows off one of her winning smiles. 
of Portland on Thanksgiving 
was my first day at work. The 
immediate acceptance and 
affection I received brightened 
my morning like no other Intro­
duction I ever had. Here I was, just a fool kid visiting for the 
first time, yet I was greeted 
with an openness never before 
matched. 
Harriet thinks my name Is Roger 
Tony thinks my name Is Tessy 
Hugs, handshakes, smiles and stories flowed from every­one I met. Circles of faces kept forming around me. This lasted for an hour. Without trying, on~ because I was another person to get to know, to share feelings with, I was special. I was welcome and equal. What a great lesson In greeting people, in acting as If everyone sparkled In a unique way. 
taiJc.lng to old(?) college friends on the phone having Ed Langlois show me "little red wagon" 
love, kindness, smiles, hugs. Wow! It was sweet. It was a feeling I have had many times since from all members of the Bay Area community, but It was not what I expected on my first day --not from these people. 
That feeling has not left be­
I'd trade all my tomorrows for one single yesterday. Janis Joplin­1971 
But It's not depressing. Everyone I have met has a deep and wsmderful character, a sense af1tumor and a fair to poor taste In polyester cloth­Ing. They really can make me chuckle. Despite a limited grasp, and often ZERO control over their world, my newest friends understand and react to "humanity" In the most basic but creative ways. 
I ain't lookln' to compete with you, beat or cheat. or mistreat you; simplify you, classify you, deny, defy or crucify you. All I really wanna do Is, baby, be friends with you. Bob Dylan -1964 
My friends have shown me new ways to accept all those around me, how to be proud of a Jackel or a smile, a friendship, even a simple little earring. They have so little. Either they have not been able to accumulate or their society has afforded them so little. What they do have they embrace with all their might. 
You're not really free until you can carry everything you own In your two hands. a monk I met In Kansas City-1966 
What if everyone considered a good morning handshake as vital as Terry does? Without it he Is Incomplete, but with It he is certain that everything Is peaceful that day. 
Energy. What energy Pam 
has. Damn it's obnoxious 
sometimes when she tells you 
every detail of her evening, 
every plan, every hope five 
times a day. But what If every­
one else kept asking questions 
and kept trying to understand 
like she does? 
lorraine can't speak. She can 
only hum, "meemie meenle 
mee." But what If everyone 
wanted you to sit down next to 
them just to hold your hand 
and listen to your stories? 
At least once a week I find 
myself amazed by their vision. 
Their individual problems are 
so complex. but their view of 
the world Is so simple. The 
love they share is so Immense. 
I didn't even want this job. I 
used to be a bit scared of 
them, but now every day I have 
a new story I run home to tell. 
Mental retardation refers to a level of functioning which requires from society significantly above­average training procedures, manifested throughout the life of both the society and the Individual. Marc Gold -1960 
So anyway, to change the subject a bil since I took a little theology when I was in school I have my own little Idea about the Kingdom of God, right? A feast, a surprise, a hidden treasure. Building a Christian community to grow in knowledge and love of each other. 
hugs, smiles, constant love, limitless acceptance from my dis­abled friends 
sharing meals with Tom, Anne Margaret and Bill 
praying together 
arguing Marxism arter a simple meal of soup and bread playing hoops with the neighbor­hood deacons 
I feel that I have found a hidden treasure in the people I work for each day. Their les­sons are a piece of God's Kingdom, alive today. I have found that In my house, beneath the billboards next to a used car lot. We are working and learning. We are trying, like my friends at C.O.R.E. We are "creating Peace" like a cute little Brazilian Bishop said we must. (He finally convinced me to bag med school by the way. Bless him.) 
With the rich and mighty, always a little patience. Jimmy Stewart ­1940 
I'm patient. The adults I work with don't learn how to count overnight. The world doesn't have to change by the time my year ends in July. Already I have found much beauty and promise in some very little things, little people and little efforts. I'll keep trying. I'm In no hurry. 
Oola-Maroolal You guys can really play football. Portland HCA House-1967 


Realization: half the battle 
This is the second in a series ofarticles on alcohol education at Notre Dame. 
TAMRYN ETTEN accent writer 
T
he very last thing that Bob wanted to do In college was quit drinking. He would miss out on all those good partying years ahead of him. 
But Bob knew that the only way he was going to stay alive was to quit. He was an alcoholic and knew alcohol could kill him. He wasn't ready to die. He was only 19. 
"I didn't know how to socialize without it. I feared all the 
fun would be gone," said Bob (not his real name), a cur­
rent junior In the College of Arts and Letters at Notre 
Dame. "But It was no fun In the end." 
It all started off so Innocently. Bob began drinking at 16, mainly on weekends. "I liked the numbness; how good It felt and being able to act freely--crazy. 
Alcohol: 
the whole story 

drank. he drank to get runk. all, he deserved it. Ne had put In a long hard week. It was time to relax and to have some fun. 
But he found that when he drank he kept getting In "trouble." His friends didn't seem to invite him back to parties. He would wake up in the morning, sometimes not remembering what he did and waiting to find out if he had made a fool of himself. 
"When I drank I became a different person," he said. Pretty soon he found himself anxious to go away to col­lege. He had alienated himself from many of his friends in high school and was looking for an opportunity start over. 
"College was going to be different" he said. But he Im­mediately found the "party scene" when he got to Notre Dame. College didn't become a place for him to start over, but a place to make all the same mistakes. 
Soon the guilt and fear settled ln. "I would wake up In the morning with that vomit taste In my mouth and a ter­rible fear. What did I do? I wanted to stay In bed. I was afraid to go to the dining hall." 
Bob decided that he had to do something. He began to go to counselling. 
His counselor suggested that he simply try to control his drinking. That way he wouldn't feel so guilty about it. "I tried In the beginning. but once I started drinking I'd tell myself, ' I can stop anytime I want but just not tonight.' " 
Then one weekend he didn't drink and he felt like It was a big accomplishment. He realized that It was very difficult to do. He realized he had an alcohol problem. 
Through Alcoholics Anonymous, lots of support from family and friends, and the 'Grace of God,' as he says, Bob has been sober for nearly a year and a half. 
Bob was fortunate In the sense that he realized he had a 
problem before it was too late--ultimately before he died. 
Many of his friends tell him he was fortunate to have dis­
covered the problem before he got out In the "real world." 
It was the alcohol education that was available at Notre 
Dame which allowed him to come to the crucial decision 
that he had a problem with drinking. A "bittersweet" dis­
covery. 

Alcohol education Is entering a new phase at Notre Dame with the dedication of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education this Friday. One of the purposes of the office will be to publicize signs of alcohol dependence. 
Kristin Williams, a recovering alcoholic and senior at Notre Dame, saw signs of alcohol dependence In herself and admitted herself to a detox center In her home town during Christmas Break of her sophomore year. 
She feels she was lucky because she was able to admit that she had a problem. A major part of alcoholism Is denial that the problem exists. Then there Is the final prob­lem of being able to stop drinking. 
"Somehow you have to get a person to want to stop. They build up such a denial or defense when laws or rules are imposed," she said. She sees these rules as the ones that society Imposes, as well as the ones that the "society" of Notre Dame has Imposed. But she believes that If be­hind all these rules Is the Intention to educate, she Is In favor of them. 
"Education allows you to look at your own behavior ob­jectively without being attacked by it. When you're attacked by il you just resist il" she said. 
Kristen strongly believes In telling people about her ad­diction If simply to approach people In a non-judgmental, objective way. Plus, she adds, "If I tell enough people, and they leave school knowing that alcoholics are not middle­aged men and women who've lost everything and ended up on skid row, then I'll be happy.'' 


View 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 
Racial tensions Racial insensitivi 
must be lessened 
Are you prejudiced? 

Although your answer may be no, you still may be in­sensitive to a problem that you hardly realize exists: rac­ism. 
February is Black History Month. It is a month in which we should recognize the accomplishments of blacks and reflect on the on-going search for equality. 
At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, students, faculty and administrators must take time to reflect on how blacks are treated here. 
There is a racial problem on campus, much of which is caused by insensitivity. Three incidents in the past year demonstrate the problem. 
First, during the Bookstore Basketball tournament, there was a racial polarization of the spectators at the championship game. The atmosphere became tense and racial slurs were thrown. 
Second, some members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community charged that Scholastic's publishing of Matt Groenig's cartoon "Life in Hell" portraying a prejudiced school teacher was insensitive and typical of the ignorance of racially motivated problems on campus. 
Third, an incident near the War Memorial in November prompted a black student to write the following in a letter to the editor: "To the inebriated Notre Dame students standing in the War Memorial Fountain Sunday night yel­ling 'give me a nigger beat,' . . . I would like to say thank you for adding another Notre Dame moment to my expe­rience as a minority at this University." 
Whether we would like to admit or not, these incidents are symptoms of the problematic racial atmosphere in this community. Events that many would consider insig­nificant have touched off vehement reactions from black members of the community. In fact, Groenig responded to the uproar about his cartoon by citing Notre Dame as one of only two places in the country that took offense to his syndicated strip. 
Obviously, the solution to the racial insensitivity in the community is neither readily evident nor concrete. Aware­ness about minority problems must be increased on these campuses. Increasing awareness must be a joint venture between the students and administration. 
First, more blacks should be admitted into the Univer­sity. Although the efforts to recruit more blacks at the University have been stepped up, the black student popu­lation remains inordinately low. Only 3 percent of the entire student body is black; only 28 blacks will be graduating this May with the Class of 1988. 
There is still a lack of incentive for highly qualified black students to attend this University. Out of the hundreds of professors at Notre Dame, only a handful are blacks. When this is considered along with the incidents of insensitivity mentioned before, the atmosphere here hardly seems con­ducive to the prospect of having more black students enroll. 
Second, as students we must become more aware of the racial tensi~ns that exist in the community. Everyone must be more aware of insensitive behavior on the part of all races toward one another. And we must strive to make students not only feel a part, but play a part in the com­munity. 
The whole community can only benefit from such efforts. 
-The Observer 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessar~ly reflect the polic1es of the adm1mstration of either 1nSt1tu110n. The News is reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion ol the maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. leners and the InSide Column present the v1ews of their authors Column space <S available to all members of the school community. and the free expression of varying opimons on campus. through leners. IS encouraged. · 

Campus not realistic 
B and W have just finished a hard semester at Notre Dame. Finals completed, they meet for the first time at the main circle wearily waiting for a bus to the airport. They are not special students, by most ac­counts, though each of them is dif­ferent. Seated on the bus, they awkwardly introduce themselves. 

Dennis Tillman 
guest column 
"Hi," says W. "I'm W." 
"Nice to meet you, W, I'm B." 
"So tell, me B, what's it like to be a black student at Notre Dame?" "Well, W, it's not easy." "Really?," questions W. "Do you 
feel ostracized?" "Sometimes," answers B, al­mostly rotely. "Is racism a problem?" W is in­terested and genuinely concerned. 
"Yes it is," a methodical B replies. B has switched into automatic now, having answered these same ques­tions time and again. Anticipating the next question, B saves W some breath and drly notes that there are only 248 African-American students on campus, graduate and under­graduate. 
Astonished, W repeats the num­ber. "248?! Is that all?" 
"That's all," B says, literally sum­ming up the conversation and falling asleep. "It's been a long semester." 
The dialogue depicted between B and W is fictional but is intended to resernble a real event, one that has happened thousands of times. It hap­pens because a lot of W's are fasci­nated when they get the chance to talk to a B. They want to know what it is like to be an African-American student at Notre Dame. They want to know what it is like to be a member of the campus "minority." 
Most of the time the questions which a lot of the B's are asked come in good faith. The B's know how it feels to be the hair in the soup, the lonely fly on the paper. One does not try too hard, but ultimately as an African-American, one is extra­noticeable in classes, in the dining halls, and at parties. 
The reason African-American stu­dents are extra-visible on this campus stems contrapositively from the fact that we (black students) make up less than three percent of the total population here. The loser because of this salient statistic is the Notre Dame community. 
As worldly as we profess to be, our environment at this academic bas­tion is more than opposite of a worldly situation. We do not even come close to reflecting the situation in our country either. What we have is a phony campus population that looks more like the suburban America in the sixties than the world of the eighties that most of us will enter when we finish our tenure here. 

Some of us are fortunate because we have had the experience of inter­action: fate gave us a roommate of another color, we have experienced the B and W conversation. Others of us are less fortunate, never having the chance to interact with someone who we perceive to be different but who is probably more like us than unlike us. 
It is the latter group which will suffer the most. Soon, life will say, without much mercy, "BANG!, folks. Welcome to reality." We will have to work with peers who seem strange because of our own ignor­ance. Imagine graduating from Notre Dame ignorant. Truly scan­dalous! 
One major complaint of the stu­dents here is that the administration is too paternalistic. They will not let us drink and party like we want to. They will not let us date like we want to. Sometimes they will not let us worship like we want to. 
For all of these paternal acts, however, the one which is the most disturbing is the pervasive symptom of protection from interaction which is reflected by the ethnic mix of the student body, or rather the lack thereof. It seems like the policy makers forgot to recall Piaget's theorem that development stems from the experience of interaction. 
The current minority situation, however, cannot totally be blamed on the administration's lackadaisi­cal efforts to bring more black stu­dents here, even though past admin­istrative failures have contributed extensively to the problem. Stu­dents, too, must bear responsibility for some barriers faced by the Office of Admissions. 
Many blacks who are admitted to Notre Dame have heard too many horror stories about the unfriendly atmosphere here and opt for a more realistic environment. Likewise, the black students who come here have negative experiences and do not en­courage others to follow in their steps. The result is a vicious cycle that can only be broken when all in­volved realize that a problem exists and decide that Notre Dame needs to address these issues vigorously as a community. 
About three years ago the cycle was attacked by several African­American students who decided that something had to be done about the problem. Like most students, they chose to attend Notre Dame for all the right reasons, but never realized what they would have to face. 
The lure of the Notre Dame expe­rience, however, made those stu­dents declare an unann lution aimed at mak friendlier place for m dents. They were upset freshmen class that yea blacks. Their aim was to and administrators to lack of interaction here a cause of this, namely the of minority students her 
The result was some discussion by the black and the renaissance of dents' organizations, s Black Cultural Arts Co proliferation of others, broader based Notre Da chapter. The BCAC at reassert itself as a cult zation, fighting off the s being a purely social events were draining budget because there si social life for the small munity without BCAC s NAACP, likewise, bega the issue of the lack of dents and voicing minori 
For some, such as freshmen class, the res student activism is hav effects. There is a stron community for the fres cially since they have largest enrollment of bl in the school's history ( tal but still scant 80) . Fo attitude changes came the 36 members of th class three years ago, f only 28 remain. Tod American students are second wave of their bat will fail if there is not the rest of the commw black students have co 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in·Chiel. Managing Editor News Editor. News Editor Viewpoint Editor Sports Ed1tor Accent Editor ... Saint Mary's Editor Photo Ed1tor 

Founded November 3, 1988 
.. .Kev1n Becker Mark Pankowski .... Chns Bednarski .. J1m Riley Chns Murphy Denms Corngan M1chael Naughton Sandy Cenmele J1m Carroll 
Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clarll Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Projects Managar......................... Marl! Mclaughlin Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Controller ..........•............................. Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton 




)Oint ty on campus 
com­
). The ~ addressing linority stu­
Y concerns. his year's It of black ng positive er sense of men, espe­the second :ck students monumen­. others, the too late. Of ~ freshmen r example, African­ntering the le, but they ction from ity. While ntinued to 
Dooneabury 

MY PRtJ6RAM HA5 AU THE
511?1 IKJIUWJW 50N,MYPRO­

G&NCRAL HA16, SIR/ 
MANlY 5A8ER.-RAmi}.Kj
YOU /JE.5C.R./8E f#AM15AU­

OFREA6AN/5M IQ!TH()(ff
'lfJ()R PFaJ~?AMr '.iTICJ<. ANVNO 

ANYCF 7H~ MZNI/3.
SIR{'-CNRar! 
""' 


repair their base, the general popu­lation has lagged behind and the ad­ministration is only now beginning to address zealously minority con­cerns. What we need to see is more action from everybody. 
Father Malloy's articulation of his concerns about the scarcity of minority students here is the most positive sign of the administration's new concern for the campus minority population. Kevin Rooney, director of the Office of Admissions, seems to be trying to take care of his part. He will, however, need to be even more aggressive in recruit­ing minority students. Admissions is also going to need a commitment of University funds for minority stu­dents' aid, and Jim Russo of Finan­cial Aid has to be aware that his of­fice is also a critical part of the process. 
On the administrative side, also, department chairmen need to bring in black professors across the board. It is absolutely ridiculous that Notre Dame has a black faculty population of four. One need only count the times one has been in a class being taught by an African-American pro­fessor. Those of you who have should have a better understanding of what it is like to be in the minority. 
The last push has to come from the students themselves. We need to make conscious efforts to meet more people and discuss critical issues. We need to challenge the adminis­tration to bring us more variety. Groups such as the ND NAACP are always seeking new members, and joining the Association is an excel­lenct way to keep up to date on the contemporary problems which minorities are facing here and in the greater society. 
Black history month is the perfect opportunity to begin addressing these concerns. Attending the events of the Black Cultural Arts Festival is a step that should be taken. One might not see many black students at all of the events, but reali~e why this is so. 
Alas, when February ends the dis­cussion needs to continue. This is not a problem that affects us once a year. Itis, on the contrary, one which we must address until Notre Dame has changed not only itself but also stands poised to impact the society beyond the confines of campus. 
The story you are about to read is fictional. Any semblance to actual events are purely coincidental. 
B and W have just finished a hard week at Notre Dame. Preparing for the weekend, they meet at the main circle eagerly waiting for a bus to the mall. They are not special stu­dents, by most accounts, though each of them is different. Seated on the bus, they casually introduce themselves. 
"Hi," says W. "I'm W." "Nice to meet you, W, I'm B." "Say, B, aren't you in my America 
in Black and White class?" 
"You're  right,  W. I  thought  I  
recognii!!ed  you.  Small  campus!"  
The two of them laugh.  

"So tell me, B, what's happen­ing?."."." 
Dennis T. Tillman is a senior busi­ness administration major and Chariman of Press and Publicity/Program and Research Committee for the Notre Dame NAACP. 

P.O. Box Q 
All can participate in BCAC events 
Dear Editor: 

The Black Cultural Arts Center is 
an organization, just as the Student 
Government Cabinet or the Student 
Union Board is an organization, a 
group representing a body of people, 
of students. It just so happens that 
the BCAC represents the body of 
black students of the Notre Dame 
campus. But even though that is a 
fact, this organization has never 
implied or even inferred that any 
other group of students were ex­
cluded in any shape, fashion, or form 
from any activity this group spon­
sors. 

The Black Cultural Arts Festival 
(BCAF) sponsors several annual 
events honoring, calling attention to 
black Americans, an expected 
celebration done nationally to instill 
a sense of pride in one's identity and 
heritage--however different it may 
be. Thus, the BCAF presents to all 
of the Notre Dame Community as 
well as the South Bend Community 
three major events: the Gospel Choir 
Concert, the Talent Show, and the 
Fashion Show. 

The Talent Show will be held Feb. 
13 in the library auditorium at 7 p.m. 
Admission is free. The Fashion Show 
will be held at the Century Center in 
Downtown South Bend on Feb. 20 at 
8 p.m. at $5.00 a ticket. The proceeds 
will go to charity. (The Gospel Choir 
was held Jan. 31 in Washington Hall 
and was a very spiritually inspira­
tional event.) 

Please consider this article as a 
personal invitation to the entire body 
of students whether affiliated with 
the BCAF or not. 

Laurenteen Carla Morris Pasquerilla East Hall February 1, 1988 

Facts and names need careful use 
Dear Editor: 

We feel compelled to respond to the Jan. 19 Viewpoint article written by the Co-leaders of the College Democrats of Notre Dame for it con­tains both misleading "facts" and 
Viewpoint  would  like  to  occasionally highlight  
quotes  from  faculty  members,  students  and  
readers. So if you  or  someone  you know says  

something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, sent the quote to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Garry Trudeau 
SIR!~ 
GREAT! IXJ '1fJ() 
AFFIRMATIVE. 
HMA rAMPA16N 
"17'50700 
S/.06AN~ SIR! 
/N~LA." 



Quote of the Day 
"Never measure the height of a mountain, until you have reached the top. Then you will see how low It Is." 
Dag Hammarskjold 

numerous uses of pointless name­calling in order to get their ideas across. 
We are delighted that the College Democrats recognize that President Reagan has brought many new jobs into the marketplace. Granted, these are not the highest paid jobs in the country, but they are entry level jobs. There is not a high percentage of unemployed people with the skills necessary to maintain a job as a business executive. The unemployed are thus forced into lower paying jobs. But, at least they are working, which beats the alternative of being unemployed and on welfare. This is a concept the College Democrats do not appear to understand. What the unemployed need is proper job train­ing, which should be sponsored by both private business and the gov­ernment. This is the only way that the vicious cycle of unemployment and welfare will be broken. The Col­lege Democrats also failed to men­tion how much more inflation hurts the poor than it does the affluent. Inflation takes away the real buying power of those who make under $15,000 annually much more than those who make $75,000. Perhaps they failed to mention this because we were experiencing double digit inflation under our last President, the Democrat leader Jimmy Carter, and are now facing a low rate of only 4.4% under Reagan. 
The College Democrats' article begins by stating that they "seek to encourage and promote intelligent debate on the pressing political is­sues of our time.'' We could not agree more with them. However, we have great difficulty with their references to President Reagan was a "confused old man," their reference in their first column to President Reagan as a "buffoon" and a "mad­man," and their reference to an op­posing letter to the editor as being "amusing but pitiful," written by "confused and impressionable young conservative idealogues." If this is what they call "intelligent debate," we do not think it speaks very highly of either them or the Col­lege Democrats whom they repre­sent. If they cannot get their ideas across without name-calling, per­haps they should not make them at all. 
Mark Galasso Bob Huston Flanner Hall January 21, 1988 



Mike Manning, a sophomore from Keenan Hall, has been named Bookstore Basketball XVII Commissioner. Team registration will be February 28 in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
Ski team members are required to turn in any unsold turtleneck, sweatshirt and jacket money to J.P. in the LaFortune lobby Wednes­day, between 7-8 p.m. Any questions, call J.P. at 271-9082. -The Observer 
TheGymnasticsClubwillholdmandatory practices this week. Monday's practice is at 
4:30 p.m., Tuesday through Friday practices are from 4-6 p.m. -The Observer 
Anyone interestedin forming a women's rugby team, please contact Lauren (3560), Cathy (4067) or Sarah (4039). No experience necessary. -The Observer 
Phil Henderson scored 18...J?oints Monday night as No.4 Duke beat t;Iemson 101-63to remain atop the Atlantic Coast Conference bas­ketball standings. Duke, 4-1 in the ACC and 14-2 overall, used a 26-8 scoring spurt to build a 54-26 halftime lead. Henderson and Danny Ferry, who scored all of his 13 points in the opening 20 minutes, were the leaders as Duke pulled away after leading just 22-18 with 8:43 left in the period. Henderson scored four points during a 10-0 run that gave Duke a 32-18lead with 7:07 left in the half. -Associated Press 
The Observer Tuesday, February 2, 1988 
Sports Briefs 
Notre Dame hockey will be the topic on Speaking of Sports, from 10-11 p.m. on WVFI. Co-hosts Sean Pieri and Steve Trepiccione will be talking with Irish hockey players Frank O'Brien, Mark O'Sullivan and Brian Montgomery. -The Observer 
The Maryland-Notre Dame game will be broadcast tonight by WVFI. Frank Mastro and Jamey Rappis will have the coverage beginning at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The NVA track meet will take place Sunday, February 7, at 1 p.m. at the Loftus Indoor Com­plex. Individual or team entries will be ac­cepted at the NVA office through tomorrow. For more information call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in becoming a student athletic trainer should contact Jim Russ, JACC training room, as soon as possible for informa­tion and application. Travel and benefits are available. Students must have discipline and be hard working in nature. -The Observer 
...._ a...wrNot,. o.meoffice, located on the tlltrd floor of LaFortune Stu­dent c.m., -=c:epta claaslfled -'-tiltng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttlnJugh Frtdar. n.a...wr s.1nt u.y. office, located on the third floor of H-oprCollge Cent.-, M;Cepta clu8lfleda from 1~ p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttwough Frtdar. DMdllne for next-day claaalfledala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat 
Classifieds be prwpald, either In perwon Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:haActwa per day. 
LOST--Gold Cross pen, inijialed MJS. be mine 
EGG OH NO! So your b-day was Jan. If you ever see another basketball game, Lost somewhere between LaFortune and 
2. ROTC this is the one. The Irish women's bas­
NOTICES 
the South Dining Hall on W 1. Of great FOR SALE 
BOYCOTT COCA-COLA! ketball team takes on the fourth-ranked value; will pay ungodly amounts of money 
Tree----------Lady Vols of Tennessee WEDNESDAYMARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; lor ·~s return. Call Matt at x3489. 1971 Mustang. Fully restored. 351 Coke Divestment NOT the 'Real Thing'. 1 feel like a fat hairy albino cowllll AT 7:30 AT THE JOYCE ACC. Don't miss 
277-1051 DAY. Cleveland. Automatic, AMf'M cassette, this one... BE THERE!! 
2-dr. hdtp. Luxury car. Call 586-2482 FLOWERS! Anet-­TYPING AVAILABLE after 5 pm. 
VALENTINE'S DAY! It turns me on when my head is heated. Three reasons to love Irish Hockey. 3.) 
287-4082 

FLOWERS! I guess I just haven't been the same since Ric Shafer is God 2.) Lsrry! 1.) The team FOR RENT FOR SALE: Whipper II slalom K·1. Kev­Send a Valentine Flower to your sweet­my mother raped mellll is a scoring machine. Beat the Air Force laograpMe. Very light and very fast. 
heart, friend or roommate. Flowers on NOTICE Seve $ on books. Buy used 375.00 Gemini C-2. Close cockp~. bow
OFURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· sale Wed., Thurs., and Fri. at the dining Oh Paattyl Be a member of Ric's Rangers and see 
books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block right. Buih by Nitty Valley boats. 450.00
BORHOOD NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 288-halls for just $1. We'll deliver on Feb. 14. Irish Hockey shoot down the Air Farce
························· ..........
off NO Ave). Open daily 10-5:30 09551255-3684 Shawn 271-0758 
BENDIX WOODS This Saturday BENDIX this weekend. SPRING BREAK WOODS 7 to 10 p.m. BENDIX WOODS 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2n­LARGE DUPLEX FOR RENT. WILL AC­BAHAMA PARTY '88 WOODS WOODS

BENDIX BENDIX I!!SWEETIII CLAUDIA LIMAROO IS 111 COMMODATE 11-11 STUDENTS. THREE 
CHARTER 8-MAN BOATS TO BIMINI TUBING! SOPHOMORE CLASS Hey Guys!! Buy the little lady a beer!! 
COMPLETE BATHS, COMPLETELY ISLAND. FOR MORE INFO CALL TUBING sign-ups TODAY ONLY from (She prefers Bud Light!) HAPPY 
7406 TICKETS
TYPING -CALL DOLORES FURNISHED INCLUDING WASHER I 

WILLIE 234-8382 2:30 to 4 p.m. in the Class Ollice, Second BIRTHDAY C. I!237-1948 DRYER. NEW SECURrrY SYSTEM. 
Floor LsFortune. Only $2. 
CALL 234-11364 AFTER 5, NANCY NEEDED: up to 5 UCLA B-ball GA's for A SUMMER IN EUROPE? INTER-············································ 
ITS NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN HUMBARGER. familyll call Kris-3099 PLEASE! 

ESTED IN TRAVEL TO The drinking age in international waters YOUR VALENnNE CLASSIFIEDS.
MUSTGETTO OHIO THIS FRANCE,GER,SWilZ,rTALY? SIGN is 16. AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANYWKEND.S$MIKEX2119 FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 2n-Parents in search ol DUKE tix (at Dur­UP FOR THE ND-SMC SUMMER ROME DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY, 3097, 683-8889. ham) .... HELPI X3633 

PROGRAM FROM JUNE 12-.IULY 11. Is anybody out there going to Purdue 2-5 FEB. 11. COURSE CREDrT AVAILABLE IN or to St Louis 212 ?? If you have room PARTIAUY FURNISHED RANCH 3 UCLA rTAUAN,SOC,HIST. FOR MORE INFO call £3n2 thanks FRANKlEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS WASHER­I need two GA's lor the UCLA basketball 
CALL T.J. AT 2053 OR DR. BLACK AT LOVED "CHINA DOLL"! WOULD LIKEMRS. COKER 233-7009. GREATNEIGHBORHOOD,OFF game. 284-4480. 
ROGER KENNAI TO HEAR YOU PLAY IT AGAIN-­TOR-SOFBLVD. IDEAL FOR 3 STU­
Please. 
SOBER! CALL SOMETIME. FROM THE DENTS CALL 232-3616 They're for my parents. 

RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK, NEW MR. KEENAN! CUTE PUNK CHICK. Honest. 
ENGLAND AREA, ESP. CT, FOR 6 BDRM, 2 BATH '1-bSHOWERS. ON Call JR at 283-1538. Thanks. 
VALENTINE'S DAY WEEKEND CAU ROGER KENNA--HERE'S YOUR NAME Who would have believed that SUSAN BUS LINE TO NO. FURNISHED, GOOD 
' LOST/FOUND I DAN X1167 IN PRINT could ever misspell the word 
NEIGHBORHOOD, $130-STUDENT & "SCREWED" ? 259 ZShmLOST -earmuffs, wMe rabbit fur. MY UTILITIES. 233-9947 OR 287-3530. MY FATHER IS DYING .. II to see NO play FEMALE NON-SMOKING ROOMMATE DEAR ROGER, WE JUST WANTED TO EARS ARE COLDIII Probably lost in DAYTON, Feb. 18. Call X1120 W you 
NEEDED FOR CAMPUSVIEW 198&89. SAY THANK YOU FOR EVERYTHING Who would have though that Room 259 Com~ath Bldg. Call Unda at 2565 ij have two GA's so he and his sweetheart 
CALL JACQUI AT 4376. YOU'VE DONE FOR US. YOU'U always Zahm would know the work "screwed" found. can see the game. 
BE MR. KEENAN TO USI CANT WAIT anyways? ·SC Let the Party Doctors perform their sur­TIL NEXT YEAR. LOVE--THE LEWIS
WANTED · 
FOUND: POCKET CALCULATOR WANTED: gery of sound at your next event .... Call GIRLS FROM THE THIRD ROW Anyone going to U ot I 2-5, two of usLEFT IN TAX FINAL CLASSROOM IN TWO G.A.a FOR UCLA GAME Dan at 3626 need a ride. Will share expenses. CallDECEMBER. CALL 239-72118 TO IDEN­Need Ride to I.U. any weekend PLEASE CALL AMY £2845 
JIM"GRAFml ARTISTWINKLER x4224. nFY a CLAIM. Will share expenses. Good Converse· WANTED FROM ONE NEW YORKER TO AN­
tionalist Friendly Mac users with allerfiOOfiS free. OTHER Sorry for almost calling you "MountLOST: I'Mrt ring In vllclnlty of the Call 1108 evenings. 
Earn extra S$ for break! Gall Karen alter I EXPECTED SOMETHING A LrrTLE Queen" in this newspaper. Love, Every­drcle lllld Alumni beloN brMk. I'Mrt 3 at 239-6757 MORE CREATIVE one except "0," who would never thinkMlln gold, EXTREME SENTIMENTAL PERSONALS 
I GUESS I'M GOING TO HAVE TO of calling you this in a formal publication. VALUE. RMnrd. C•ll 284-<4141. NEED RIDE TO PITT THIS WEEKEEND NEED RIDE to Ex~ 12 on the Ohio SHOW YOU 
CALLJOE3883 

Turnpike for weekend of Feb. 5. Call Dan WHAT A TRUE ARTIST IS CAPABLE Were looking lor a FEW GOOD MEN MISSING: leather bomber jacket from 
THE CPA IS ON THE WAY! STUDY x1155 -wiH share $ and driving. OF... Positions open lor Mobilization Chairmen 
TODAYI VEAl BEWARE AN TOSTAL 88BEEF'S house Fri. Jan.22. Important that Earn $&hrl 
~ is returned. Call Allison at 1340. 

MATEO'S SUBS needs drivers! Anyone interested in a one month sum­For INFO Call David 2n·9237 or Colleen H interested in big $$$, call 271-0SUB mer study program in Scandinavia and 
BRIAN"STUDMUFFIN"O'GARA 4034OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR,LOST: GOLD-RIMMED GLASSES IN A 
the Soviet Union? The program will run WILL YOU EVER FIND TIME FOR BROWN CASE ON TUES JAN. 26. THE 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
from June 17 to July 15, 1988. For more YOUR WORSHIPPERS The memories of our pizza, have justCASE SAID SEBASTIAN ON rr. IF YOU 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.
MAID NEEDED: $$$$$BIG information, call David or Pat at x1155. OF PEBBLE BEACH? I begun to fade. FOUND THEM PLEASE CAU CHRIS BUCKS$$$$$ $$$$$BIG BUCKS$$$$$ 
Hurry, space is lim~ed. OR HAVE YOU GIVEN ALL YOUR But the heartburn hasn't.
Sell old texts lor $$$. Pandoras -808AT X2039 OR X2040. We need a hard worker w~h the willing­FLAGS AWAY?! I think It is heartburn, but I could be mis­Howard (1 block off NO Ave). Open daily
ness to ovef1ook a little fiHh. Hlooks worse SUMMER JOBS taken.
1().5:30. Also save $ on USed books.
FOUND IN ACC -GOLD NECKLACE than ~ is. All ~ takes is 4-5 hours a week. ALL LANDWATER SPORTS What? What? Nothing. WrrH PEARL CHARM CALL 1743 TO Fringe benefM are available. We will pro­PRESnGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK 
BRING ME A WATCH CEECI GOOD IDENTIFY vide the transportation. Only serious in­
MOUNTAINS LUCKIBESTESTES,COLEECoke: Red, Wh~e. and You
quires only! Experience preferred. Please CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY,
FOUND: One wh~e silk woman's scar! ~ ..............................................................
contact Sam or Ken at 234-6727. MORNINGS 914-3814224 w.z:·F~;;d~~-k;';·;~·s~i-...~Yii;;i:,··t:1:i::s: ~ a paisley print on ~-H was in the HAPPY BIRTHDAY Keenan Lobby alter the wortd famous SWIM INSTRUCTORS-VOLUNTEERS 
riii>:j:ji<..vou:··s;::·~uoE:·:iMa .............. 
DR. MCGUIGANIIIflll Keenan Revue Party. H ~is yours, please 
TO THE SHORT­
NEEDED TO WORK ONE-ON.QNE MODEL UNITED NATIONS CLUB: HAIRED,BLOND,SMC? WHO WAS AT HOPE THAT rr IS GREATIIII call Dan lzzo at 3319 as ~ doesn't go WrrH MENTAUY HANDICAPPED STU­HELP, I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND Organizational meeting, Tuesday, 106CMPS VIEW ON SAT-WHO ARE LOVE THE EDUCAnON CLUB 
with anything I own. DENTS. CLASSES WEDNESDAY ON FRI. FEB. 5 WILL SHARE EX· February 2, 6:30p.m.. not 7:30p.m. YOU. CALL 283-4100. 
EVENINGS AND SATURDAY MORN· PENSE$ CAU CARMEN 284-5405 because of Maryland game. Room MISPLACED SWEATSHIRTIIIII IN THE INGS. PLEASE CAU BIU THOMAS ­123 Nieuwland. MUSH: I think you're on a role. 
ACC FIELD HOUSE FRIDAY NIGHT 28~1. VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Of.,.that..,._ ­(LNO)-GRAY N.D. SWEATSHIRT, SIZE clal guy the beat gift of •II -youi"HHt 
CLUB DANKISIII LARGE. IF YOU HAVE MINE-I HAVE SOUTH PADRE ISLAND -In • Gl•mour Porlnlft by Jo. Ringer. BOWLING LEAGUE STANDINGS: 
CLUB DANKISIII HELLO ROOMIEI HOW IS rT GOINGYOURSII CALL TANJA X2843 I NEEDA RIDE TO SOUTH PADRE FOR Cell lor dellolla •~>~~,_ brochu... 287· 1. Those Guys W~h the Foam Under CLUB DANKISIII 
SUZIE, MARY ANN, UZ, ANNEMARIE, SPRING BREAK. IF SOMEONE ON 11813. Their Carpet (3-0) 
It makes weekends worthwhile. MARY, JOAN?? HOW ABOUT SOMELost: IILUE WINTER JACKET contain· 
THE SUB TRIP WANTS TO SELL 2. The Team That Might Get a Cumula· POOL JACKIE AND KAREN?? HEYing a wallet and set of keys. Lost Thurs. THEIR BUS SPOT PLEASE CALL 3,420 live Spare Alter 10 Frames (D-1) · 
BE AT THE JACC WEDNESDAY AT KATY, HEIDI, HALEINE(?), AND at JACC racquetball CauriB. Reward ALSO. KEVIN 2335 ASAP ON FEB. 2, IT GOES DOWN. 3. Those Lyons Chicks Who Just Aren't 
7:30 FOR BASKETBALL AT ITS BEST COLLEEN-ARE YOU READY FOR
4330 
WHATS rr MEAN? Good Enough (D-2) THURSDAY NIGNT? MANAGER WANTED FOR TEENAGE BE AT THE JOYCE CENTER THAT 4. The LitHe Sisters Who Are Going Down Mr. Wisconsin: Thanks for being so pa­-FROM SOME ACCENT LAYOUT PER­Lost: Oelex, keys, and ID between Badin NIGHT AND FIND OUT
DISCO IN NILES. IF INTERESTED Next (0-0) tient Saturday night. The help was ap­SON.and South Dining Hal. lllound, call3720. 
CALL COLLEEN, 800-843 3148. preciated. LBI in the winter! 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Fans welcome Skins 
Associated Press this is fantastic." Redskins' quarterback Doug 
HERNDON, Va. -About 2,000 Williams, the Super Bowl's wildly cheering fans hailed the Most Valuable Player, was lim­return of the Redskins to the ping on a left leg he hyperex­Washington area Monday tended in the second period, but night, capping 24 hours of was in good spirits nonetheless. nearly-continuous celebration of the team's Super Bowl vic­"I don't think it's sunk into tory over the Denver Broncos. anyone yet," Williams said. 
Monday was anything but a "Yesterday, it was two teams. typical day in the nation's cap­Now, it's just one team -the ital, as city officials started Washington Redskins. It's a planning a victory parade, great feeling." Redskins banners fluttered from downtown office build­Said offensive tackle Mark ings, and President Reagan in­May: "We're so high, we vited the club to the White haven't come back down." House. 
A day of extraordinary Throughout Washington the celebrating reached a peak day after the Redskins' second when two buses carrying the Super Bowl win in six seasons, Redskins and their families the after-effects of the rumbled up to the team's train­Redskins' stunning victory had ing facility around 8 p.m. people buzzing. 
Coach Joe Gibbs told the crowd outside Redskins Park Local radio stations played that fan support at the game in the Washington fight song San Diego and in the Washing­"Hail to the Redskins" ton area had been crucial to the throughout the day, and the team's success. receptionst in Mayor Marion 
"To see that kind of a crowd Barry Jr.'s office greeted tele­out there, it really means a lot phone callers with "City of to our players," Gibbs said. champions, office of the tershocks continue after the redsklns beat the "Getting welcomed home like mayor." Broncos 42-10 on Sunday. 
Redskins already looking to battle Gi_ants next year 
Associated Press quarter points to rout the Den­The last two Super Bowl win­
last-place schedule next fourth-quarter touchdowns as ver Broncos 42-10 Sunday, be­ners, the Giants and Redskins, season. They get to play Detroit the NFC team was cruisingSAN DIEGO -Super Bowl coming the fourth straight NFC came from the NFC East, and twice and Kansas City, while with a big lead. In fact, the
winners don't repeat. So, after team to capture a lopsided Gibbs said he believes it's the the Redskins are facing the fewest points by any NFCthe Washington Redskins lost Super Bowl victory. toughest division in football. likes of Chicago and Cleveland. Super Bowl team over that per­
to New York in the NFC title That led Redskins Coach Joe "I thought that if any team "I think the Giants are mad iod was the 38 scored by San 
game a year ago, Charles Gibbs to face the inevitable around could repeat it was the about what happened this year Francisco in its 38-16 victoryMann was rooting for the questions Monday about the Giants because they were solid and will come roaring back," over Miami in 1985.
Giants in the Super Bowl. That difficulty of repeating as NFL at every position," he said of Gibbs said. "I think Philadel­"Each of those games is to­
way, the Redskins would have champion. No team this decade last year's champions, who fell phia is coming on, and so are tally separate," he said. "I a chance this year. has won two straight Super victim to a terrible strike team, the Cardinals." don't see it as AFC-NFC. Each Mann's double wish came Bowls. injuries and post-Super Bowl The NFC has won the last of those teams got hot for a day. 
true Sunday when the Redskins Gibbs' response: "I just want malaise, finishing last in the four Super Bowls by a com­What takes over and contri­
went on a record-breaking 
to get through our division division with a 6-9 record. posite score of 165-56 with 14 of butes to a lopsided game is dif­binge that included 35 s~cond-first." That gives the Giants an easy those 56 points coming on ficult to understand." 
Broncos reevaluate everything
The Observer 

Associated Press Broncos needed bigger players trapped (sacked). He tried-to. The independent student newspaper serving Notre up front on defense, Reeves make the big play. You can't Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for SAN DIEGO -Still at a loss to said, "It's nice to have big take that out of his hands. But 
explain their second-quarter guys, but you've got to cover it took us out of field-goalthe following position: collapse in the Super Bowl, the people in the secondary, too. range."
Managing Editor Denver Broncos pondered We didn't make any plays. Mter Denver went ahead 10­what might have been. They had four long scoring 0, Sanders fumbled the ensuing Business Manager Shortly before the team plays against us." kickoff and Denver appeared to boarded a return flight to Den­Reeves admitted the out­have recovered. But when theDeadline for applications is ver on Monday, Coach Dan come might have been differ­officials uncovered the pile, the 
Reeves said the evaluation ent had the Broncos scored a Redskins had the ball.
Wednesday, February 3. 
process will begin in prepara­touchdown instead of a field For further Information contact tion for the 1988 season. goal on a possession inside the "Bruce (Plummer) said he "We need to evaluate every­Washington 10 in the first quar­had the ball and our players
Chris Murphy 
thing," Reeves said in the wake ter; had they not suffered a said he had the ball, but they of Sunday's 42-10 loss to Wash­sack that took them out of field­took it away from him in the
at The Observer (239-5303) 
ington. "We'll make whatever goal range later; had they been pile," Reeves said. "(Back 

Men's Basketball tickets are still available for: 
Maryland Dayton Vanderbilt 
Creighton 

moves it takes to make us a  given possession of a Washing­ judge) AI Jury said Bruce had  
better team.  ton fumble on a kickoff.  the ball, but he was overruled  
"There's a difference be­ by the other officials. Then the  
tween success and excellence,  The Broncos dominated ear­ replay official upstairs went  
and we're not ready for excel­ ly, but squandered scoring  along with the call on the  
lence. But we didn't all of a sud­ chances and took only a 10-0  field."  
den become a bad team, either.  lead. Washington then roared  
"I don't think we need to  back with five straight touch­ 
make wholesale changes. We'll  downs in the second quarter.  Elway finished with sub-par  
look in various areas of our per­ "Washington was struggling  statistics, but Reeves defended  
sonnel, but we'll also look at  and then all of a sudden they  his quarterback.  
our coaching. When you get  caught fire," he said. "They  "John is a great quarterback  
beat that badly, it's not just the  got seven points very easily (on  but he can only do so much,"  
fault of the players. We got out­ an 80-yard pass from Doug Wil­ he said. "He can't block for  
played and we got out­ liams to Ricky Sanders).  himself, he can't carry the ball  
coached."  from a running back position,  
In particular, Reeves said his  "What they did in the second  he doesn't catch passes or play  
defense needed a hard look.  quarter obviously made the dif­ defense."  
The Broncos gave up 39 points  ference. But just as big was  Reminded that his team, at  
in last year's Super Bowl,  getting down there and having  0-3 in Super Bowls, is perilously  
losing to the New York Giants  to settle for three points.  close to matching the Min­ 
39-20.  "Then we were in field-goal  nesota Vikings' 0-4 record for  
"We've got to do something,"  range again and we called a  Super Bowl futility, Reeves  
he said. "You're not going to  play where we thought we  said, "(Former Viking Coach)  
win many world champion­ could get rid of the ball quickly.  Bud Grant said 0-4 is better  
ships giving up 40 points a  John (quarterback John El  than 0-0. If we get another  
game."  way) pulled the ball down and  chance and lose, I'll let you  
Asked about suggestions the  started to scramble and he got  know if that's true."  

... and other home games. For more information call the ticket 
office at 239-1356. 

Tuesday, February 2, 1988
The Observer

page 12 
Club scene is heartbreak city 
The club sports scene is on the rise again, as four The Gymnastics Club opened its season by hosting Teresa Rice was the only runner to place for the squads competed last weekend and another contin­a three-team invitational Saturday and followed Women's Track Club Saturday at the CanAm Track ued preparations for one of the biggest events of suit with the volleyball squad in terms of excitement Classic in Windsor, Canada. Rice won the 1500m the year. and heartbreak. with her fastest time ever. 
The Volleyball Club recorded one of the best, and The Irish fell to Miami (Ohio), 124.55-124.05. "She looked really strong and really smooth," the most heartbreaking, performances of the Purdue finished third with 97 points. Club President Amy Senew said of Rice's perfor­weekend as the hosts finished second in the Rich "It was a very tough loss," Club President mance. "It's still early in the season. She should O'Leary Classic. The Irish dropped a 9-15, 15-7, 15-
run really well in a month." 11, 11-15, 8-15 decision to Michigan in the champi­Gregonship game of the four-team tourney. 
"It was a really good match," Irish coach Bill Guffey The Ski Club competed at Crystal Mountain in Anderson said. "Both teams played extremely well. Michigan Saturday and Sunday, battling un­Michigan just played better defense, and we seasonable rain and an icy course. The team com­
Club Corner
couldn't put the ball down when we had to. Our petes against the same squads each weekend, in­passing broke down, and we gave away too many 
cluding Michigan, Michigan State and Eastern 
points." Maureen Durkin said. "It was a very good meet, Michigan among others. The Irish coasted into the finals with a resounding especially since it was only the first meet. We "I think we did pretty well considering the con­15-5, 15-6, 15-4 triumph over Miami (Ohio). Michigan showed a lot of potential for the meets coming up. 
ditions," women's Captain Laurie Shea said. "The downed Bowling Green in the other semifinal, and We've got a lot of good people." compeition is incredible this year, but we're always the Redskins bounced back to win the consolation Mary Drumm led the women's squad with a first­right up there. We're one of the top teams there." 
game. place finish in the all-around competition followed In the slalom, Pat Eilers paced the men's team "We just overpowered them," Anderson said by Janene Niedcwiecki in third. In the men's all­with a fourth-place finish followed by C.B. Thomas 
matter-of-factly about the Miami game. "We're just around, Paul Nowak finished third. Drumm was in 13th. T.J. Smith was 24th and Todd Maus 33rd in 
a better caliber team than than Miami." first in the vault, while Nowak took first in both the the initial morning round. In the afternoon, Carley The Irish host Miami (Ohio) Friday and then com­pummel horse and the high bars. Shubert was eighth, Smith 17th and Maus 19th. For 
pete in the Michigan Invitational Saturday with a The team travels to Oxford to compete in the 
the women, Maureen Connaughton led the morning possible rematch with the Wolverines on the Miami Cup Invitational Saturday with a Feb. 20 round with a ninth-place finish. Wendy Burrek was horizon. home meet set with Miami. 12th, Laurie Shea 16th and Carrie O'Rourke 33rd. 
In the afternoon round, Burrek took lOth and Shea ••• ••• was 12th. 
Irish 1-2 on East Coast trip 
By TIM SULLIVAN simply playing better than star in the national tennis Sports Writer others." arena. In fact, the freshman The Yale loss was disappoint­sensation will be the first Irish 
The Notre Dame women's ing to Gelfman. The Irish ·lost woman netter to compete in a tennis team travelled to New 6-3, but according to the coach, major national championship, Haven, Connecticut over the 'Three of those matches should weekend, hoping to answer have been won. We either lost when she travels to the Rolex some questions. in a tie-breaker or in close Indoor Championships this 
But despite a fairly success­sets." week in Minneapolis. ful three days of tennis, the Gelfman cited the play of "CeCe is in a very elite questions still remain. three of her netters for consis­group," said Gelfman. "She's 
Will the young Irish netters, tency in the two matches. one of only 32 girls in the who have shown flashes of ex­Junior Natalie Illig and sopho­country invited." cellence, begin to perform con­more Alice Lohrer played es­sistently? pecially well, while freshman Cahill earned the invitation 
Kim Pacella, "won some very the hard way. While the top two 
Will the doubles combina­tough singles matches." finishers in each fall regional tions begin to gel, and help the are automatically invited to the team with the important 7, 8, On Sunday, the Irish lost to tournament, Cahill finished 
and 9 points? Wake Forest in a match shor­third and had to wait for an at­tened by time restraints. In a large bid. 
The team did play impres­first to five match, the Irish lost sively against Brown Univer­5-3. However, the match began "Earlier in the season I beat sity, taking an 8-1 victory on with the doubles match-ups, both of them," said Cahill of 
Saturday. Freshman number and Cahill did not even com­the two Indiana women who one singles player CeCe Cahill pete. beat her at the regionals. "I 
captured her second victory of really don't know how I'll do -I the weekend in the match with "I think the weekend went just want to play my best." the Bruins. fairly well," said Gelfman. The Observer I David Fischer "We're still a very young team. And Gelfman thinks that 
The Irish women's tennis team travelled to the East Coast over the
"Brown was a really tough One of the things we lack is Cahill's best could be quite a 
weekend to take on Brown, Yale and Wake Forest. Tim Sullivan
team," said head coach Mic­mental intensity. We need to bit. "She's definitely ready to 
details the action at lett.
hele Gelfman. "(Mter losing to stay on a high peak consistently play. She's added some differ­Yale on Friday) I switched (instead of) see-sawing up and ent aspects to her game, and some of the singles and doubles down." Ithink she's got an excellent spots. Some of the girls were Cahill has quickly become a shot." 
Irish gridders turn terrorists 
Associated Press Regional Stadium, said police promised to "work on it," but Cpl. Derek Dieter. sharpshooters firing laser 
Three Notre Dame football Armed with M-16 assault beam weapons scored hits on players traded muscle power rifles and .45-caliber revolvers the three as they attempted to for firepower Monday to play -all spiked -the three faked a escape through a back gate. 
the bad guys in a police hostage robbery of the ticket office and drill. took four employees hostage, "These guys are more ag­said Dieter. gressive hostage-takers than 
Center Chuck Lanza, The "kidnappers" were the average guy," said Dieter. linebacker Wes Pritchett and given the run of the downtown "By using people other than tight end Tom Byrne helped baseball stadium and telep­police officers in these drills, simulate a robbery and hostage honed Dieter to demand a we get a realistic situation with incident at Stanley Coveleski $100,000 ransom. Dieter said he different effects.'' 
men's single-season winning exception of the W auyne State 
Irish 

percentage list. meet when she struggled to a continued from page 16 Sullivan, meanwhile, is only 2-2 record. Anne and Molly give 
nine victories away from pass­us a devastating one-two star against Wayne State, pos­ing Cin~y Weeks for the most punch." ting a 3-1 record, while Sullivan wins by a woman fencer in Watch for fencing this struggled with a 2-2 effort. Notre Dame history. weekend at home against 
Barreda and Sullivan have "Anne Barreda is having a Wayne State on Friday and a accumulated 40-1 (.976) and 39-spectacular season," Auriol host of teams on Saturday in­2 (.951) records, respectively. said. "She has been our most cluding Big Ten giants Ohio These winning percentages consistent fencer. Molly has 
State, Northwestern, and Mic~ ..U.nl.vers.lty·o·I·No.tre·D·om·e·----------------~
rank one and two on the wo-also been very good with the higan State. ' 

OFFICE OF 
(CMPUSt'V11NISTRY 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Wildcats still on top; Vanderbilt enters poll at No. 15 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -After impressive victories over Ken­tucky and Florida, Vanderbilt Coach C.M. Newton said Mon­day the job before him now is to keep his 15th-ranked Com­modores on an even keel. 
"The rankings, to me, are first-place votes from the panel of sports writers and broadcasters and compiled 1,239 points to remain atop the poll for the fourth straight week. 
Nevada-Las Vegas jumped from fourth to second with 1,094 points, while Brigham Young, the only unbeaten major­of 7-foot senior center Will leading Florida. very well," said Newton. who Perdue and a bevy of 3-point­is in his 31st year as a head shot marksmen to stand 6-3 in "The turnaround really coach and has compiled a 483­the league, good for a second­began with our Georgia game 354 record during stops at Tran­place tie with Kentucky and and our Alabama game (both sylvania, Alabama and Van­one game behind league-victories) in which we played derbilt. 
Fans welcome Broncos home 
very simply a recognition of doing well. It's a recognition by outsiders who look and say 'Hey! there's a basketball team that has done well.' If you continue to win, they will con­tinue to recognize you. If you don't continue to win, they won't recognize you," Newton said. 
The Commodores, 13-4, as­sured their first appearance in The Associated Press poll since the 1978-79 season by following last Wednesday's 83-66 thump­ing of Kentucky with a 92-65 dis­mantling of Florida on Satur­day. 
The losses dropped Ken­tucky, ninth last week, to lOth this week, while Florida, No. 14 last week, fell all the way to 19th. 
Arizona received 61 of the 62 college team and holder of the longest current winning streak at 15 games, moved from seventh to third and landed the other No. 1 vote. 
Duke, Temple, Purdue, Okla­homa, North Carolina, Pit­tsburgh and Kentucky com­plete the Top 10. 
Michigan heads the second ten with Syracuse, Iowa, Geor­getown, Vanderbilt, Iowa State, Illinois, Bradley, Florida and St. John's following the Wolverines. 
Vanderbilt, which downed then-No. 1 North Carolina in December, lost its first three Southeastern Conference games before putting things to­gether. 
The Commodores have rebounded for six straight wins behind the strong inside game 

WITH YOUR 
GETAWAY® STUDENT DISCOUNT CARD 

Imagine taking a break on a sunny tropical beach. A vacation skiing on a snow-co11cred mountain. A summer tourirg 01:1 World Europe. A memorable weekend visrting hc..me or a special friend. Now you can do rt-and more! Enroll today in the TWA Getaway Student Discount Program. Save 10% on all TWA flights*. Travel any class, any fare*. Earn Frequent Flight Bonus miles for FREE flights and FREE upgrades. Member­ship fees from as low as $20.00 per year. 
'Some restrictions apply. See details on application form. 

See me today for all the information and your application form. 
Sean Munster 283-2265 

,. . 
. 

~· ~ ... . . ~ 
Associated Press as they huddled in blankets in their windowless charter 
DENVER -Thousands of fans buses, which were flanked by ignored the bitter cold and their a dozen police cars with their disappointment to give the lights flashing along the parade Broncos an enthusiastic route. homecoming parade and rally Monday, the day after Denver But they put on smiles for the lost the Super Bowl 42-10 to rally at Civic Center Park, Washington. where fans cheered long and 
The Broncos appeared glum loud as temperatures dipped 
Stanford-Lewis tops 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
For the second time in as many years, the Stanford­Lewis team ran away with the Late Night Olympics champi­onship. 
In taking the gold medal in three major events, the defending champs bested the second place Flanner-Regina team by over two hundred total points. Surprisingly, the Flanner-Regina team did not win any events but rather relied on consistent strong teams in a number of the events. The only other team which failed to gain first place honors in any major events was the team from Ba<im­Dillon. 
Taking third was Sorin­W alsh. Victories in the crucial obstacle course and whiffle ball events fueled them to a one point edge over the fourth place Zahm-St. Ed's-Farley team. 
Participation in the second year of the Late Night Olym­pics was up, as was the level and variety of competition in events. According to initial NVA estimates, over twelve hundred students took part in raising approximately seven­teen hundred dollars for the St. Joseph's county Special Olympics. 
This year's most popular spectator events were the ob-into the teens and the wind chill hovered around zero. 
Mayor Federico Pena pre­sented team owner Pat Bowlen with a sculpture of a rearing horse entitled "Defiance." 
"We're disappointed, but you know we'll be back," Bowlen said. "We'll get it done for you. We feel like Custer's Last Stand." 
----------------------~ 
in LNO 
stacle course and the arm wrestling competition. The NVA enhanced the atmo­sphere by moving most events and activities from the upper halls to the dome by the hockey rink. 
"The entire evening went very successfully," said Sally Derengowski of NVA. "We got tremendous help from our volunteers as well as from numerous on-campus groups like the cheerleaders, the vol­leyball team and the lacrosse team." 
Changes being planned for future Late Night Olympics include expanded round robin tournaments as well as the in­stallation of a special central event to kick off the evening. 


Applications are now available for the following positions: 
• 
CAMPAIGN MANAGERS 

• 
STATE CHAIRMEN 


• CONVENTION DELEGATES We need approximately 1000 delegates! 
Applications are available at the LaFortune Student Govemment offices and the Haggar College Center Information Desk. 
Applications are due Friday, February 5 


page 14 
Mauer, Cavanaugh lead SMC swimmers 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team endured a rough schedule last week, facing Calvin College on Wednesday and a competing in a double dual meet Saturday against Kalamazoo College and the University of Chicago. 
Calvin defeated the Belles 69­42, but the Belles escaped with some promising performances from two double event winners, Sara Maurer and Kristin Cavanaugh. 
Maurer took an easy victory in the 1000 meter freestyle, finishing four seconds before her nearest competitor. 
Cavanaugh took first place in the 1 meter and 3 meter diving competitions with perfectly ex­ecuted dives. Cavanaugh holds the school record in the 3 meter diving competition. 
The Belles' 400 meter frees­tyle team consisting of Jennifer Veselik, Maurer, Mary Cassidy and Kiernan Walter also brought home a blue ribbon with an impressive first place finish. 
Saturday the Belles raced Kalamazoo CoHeb._ <lr....; •vdt , ~­39. 


Cavanaugh again led the divers in the 1 meter and 3 me­ter competitions, and Tony Olivieri scored the only other points for the Belles, finishing first in the 50 meter freestyle race. 
The Belles' second opponent Saturday was the University of Chicago, which snuck away with a 59-52 victory. 
The Belles finished with all single winners, just one short of the victory. 
Megan Rafferty, Clair Druley, Olivieri and Maurer connected to take first place in the 400 medlay relay while Olivieri won the 50 meter frees­tyle as well. 
Cavanaugh again made a fa­vorable showipg as she won the 3 meter diving event. 
The Belles' next meet is Friday at Grand Valley, where the Belles hope to make some waves and bring home a vic­tory. 

The Observer I Pat Kusek Irish guard Joe Fredrick, shown In action against Kansas, was a spark for the Irish Sunday against Kentucky, but will he and Gary Vose will be battling Injuries tonight against Maryland. 
Lewis has found help from a better supporting cast this season, including 6-1 junior col­lege transfer Rudy Archer at point guard (14.3 points per game) and 6-10 freshman cen­ter Brian Williams (11.6 points, 
5.5 rebounds). 
In addition, Keith Gatlin and Tony Massenburg, who both sat out all of last season, have both returned to the Terps. Massenburg, a sophomore for­ward, has averaged 11.1 points and 6.3 rebounds since return­ing on Dec. 28, while Gatlin, Maryland's career assist leader, has averaged 10.3 points since returning on Jan. 6. 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 

The Notre Dame men's volleyball club lost a tough fey details all the club action In Club Cloner, page match to Michigan In weekend action. Greg Guf-12. 
MVP Williams will have to battle 
Associated Press Player award for his record 
340-yard, four-touchdown per­
SAN DIEGO· -Super Bowl formance. "The bottom line for heroics may bring glory, gold us coming to San Diego was to and the glow of respectability win the Super Bowl. Whatever for Doug Williams. They may happens after that, I'll be not, however, guarantee his prepared to deal with it." job. Williams limped to the 
He knows that come next podium to accept the keys to summer, he and Jay Schroeder the new car that goes with the will renew their battle to be the MVP. His knee, sprained mo­Washington Redskins' No. 1 ments before he ignited Wash­quarterback. ingt'On's record-breaking 35­
"On any given day, coaches point second-quarter Sunday, make decisions, and they can had stiffened up 
overnight. do whatever they want," Wil­liams said Monday as he ac-flll•••••lllliilll•lllll!l!! 
cepted the Most Valuable 
Notre Dame has two players suffering minor injuries going into tonight's game. 
"(Gary) Voce's knee is sore, and (Joe) Fredrick's got ten­donitis in his knee," said Phelps in his Monday morning press conference. "We'll just have to see what they do in practice today (Monday) and see what Skip Meyer, our trainer, has to say." 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad­uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you w1ll receive a comprehensive twelve-week long oriente~tion where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation. you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Spring graduates apply now for positions available in 1988. Starting salary $24,627. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-j:)ed Mayo Foundation HospitaL Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist HospitaL 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services, Nursing Recruitment Section. 201 West Center Street. Rochester, MN 55902, (507} 286-7091 (Collect}. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital 
,, \lAYO H lt,;;o.;IJAI'IllN llll~l'l fA I 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
UR REPRESENTATIVE 0 BE PLEASED 
WILL JOB 
TO orscuss s wiTH 
OPPORTUN~I: VISIT '(OUR 
'(OU WHSE~N FEB. 4 
cAMPU 
ning for Williams. After leading the Redskins' 42-10 vic­tory over the Denver Broncos, Williams shut off the phone in his hotel room after talking to his dad in Zachary, La. 
Williams accepted one visitor, Eddie Robinson, his co­ach at Grambling. It was an emotional meeting, particu­larly for Robinson. 
"I'm at the age that I didn't know if I would see a Gram­bling quarterback play in the 
Robinson said. 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR FURTHER 
INFORMATION 

Terps 
continued from page 16 
Senior Derrick Lewis has led the way for the Terrapins this year. The 6-7 first-team All­ACC selection last year averages 14.9 points and 8.2 rebounds per game, tops on the team in both categories. 
"Lewis, I think, plays very well as a post player and is very creative inside, and of course when you see Massenburg, Wil­liams, (Dave) Dickerson, they just have a good team," said Phelps. "They have depth, quickness, they have the ath­letes who can just play the game very, very well. They ob­viously can run the break, a!ld they're very aggressive defen­sively." 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988 The Observer page 15 
Campus 
12 p.m.: Brown Bag Lunch, Kellogg Institute Seminar, "Social Conflict, Inertial Inflation, and Latin American Neo-Structuralism," by Jaime Ros Bosch, ILET, Mexico, and ND Faculty Fellow, Room 131 Decio Hall. 
12:30 p.m.: Talk, "The Disappeared in Central America," by Carol Stuart, ND government graduate student, Room 131 Decio. 2:45p.m.: Civil Engineering Seminar, "History of Wastewater Treatment," by Christopher Hamlin, Department of History, Room 205 Cushing Hall. 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Department Graduate Seminar, "Stratified Flow Between Rotating Disks--Similarity, Multiplicity, and the Uniformly Ac­cessible Interface," by Professor J.D. Goddard, University of South California, Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 7 p.m.: ISO General Meeting, ISO Lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune Student Center. 7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Anger I Connor Program," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Basketball, NDM vs. Maryland, JACC. 8 p.m.: Guthrie Theatre Production of "Frankenstein," O'Laughlin Auditorium, for tickets, call (219) 284-4626. 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Threatre Spring Film Series, "1860," 1933, RW, 73 minutes, directed by Allessandro Blasetti, Italy, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Philadelphia Pepperpot Soup Boneless Rib Sandwich Cheese Lasagna Meatloaf Parmesan Chicken 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Scallopini Corndogs Bean Burritos Deli Bar 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. JMt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
Comics 
Bloom County 
HIIVIN& ffl5£!? THE 19n 
''COMI'f<£HENSIVE RlfP 8/fN rRMTY, • Clli.£U5 8(JSfN€SS CO(JUJ NOW HOPtfrJUY 
TVI?N E/.SEWHCK€ ... 
Calvin and Hobbes 
".. ~NO SO, Tf\E ~NET t-\ERCUR'( l':l ~ 1-\0T ~Nt> 
B~RREN WO~. nit. CLOS£$1 
TO OUR. 'SUt-t"~----1 
11-\~K 'iOJ, 1\\f>.NK '{0\l! ~E.'{' W\-1~I ~ CQCtt.lt>! 'iO\J LOOK 
GREAT 1\-\IS MORI'IING ... RFAli1. 
I t<\D\t-1 lW-.T! G:J 00, G.\IJE 'iOIJRSEL'JE'S f.-1-\~ND! 
\ 

. The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 lsr. dance 5 Appear 
suddenly 
9 Bridge 13 011 cartel 14 Anathema 15 Air. land 16 Wash. medical 
center 18 Member of 
13A 19 Tarzan Ron ­20 Fertile soli 21 Adriatic 
peninsula 23 Like rattan 24 Fit together 25 Like shale 27 Strips 30 Get hitched 
on the fly 31 Actress Negri 32 Had debts 34 Trucking rig 35 Dentist's 
Instrument 36 Brood of 
pheasants 37 Hit as a fly 38 Old alphabet 
letter 39 Spree 40 Making ZZZs 42 Charter 43 Wash 44 Maize 45 Novelist Du 
Maurler 48 Shoe shape 49 Lacerate 52 Et ­53 President's 
home 56 Vend 57 Buenos ­58 Stet's 
opposite 59 Cad 60 Calendar span 61 First garden 
DOWN 1 Elias or 
Gordie 2 Gem 3 Depend (on) 
B :ke Breathed 
J(//J/?£Nt.Y, flTTCNTION WllS 8fiCK ON 711£ !?liP BAN Tf?€11 llN/l 7H£ 7HO!?NY ISS(/€ OF 
ENfORCEMENT. 
Bill Watterson 
~OIJ KNOW, fl.. F\J\-It-('1 \\-liNG 
\.lf\PI>£N£D ~ 1\-IE Wf>...'l m 1\it. l\BRARi 
~E'SitRD~i ... 


02/02/88 

4 Play part 5 -Caverns, 
Va. 6 Utah city 7 Full of: suff. 8 Of the Middle 
Ages 9 Wash. Institution 10 Young salmon 
11  Jal  - 
12 1492 vessel  
14 Chum  
17 Thrill  
22 Comp. pt.  
23 Lawmakers'  
milieu  
24 Cecil B. de  - 
25 Large 02/02/88  
amounts  33 Poor mark  47 Hoard  
26 Miller's  35 Private road  48 lt. money  
salesman  39 Jetty  49  Regretted  
27 Performing  41  Managed  50 Emerald  - 
28 Two of  a  kind  42 Misplaces  51  Hammer part  
29 Coarse grass  44 Provide food  54 Hasten  
30 Road  curve  45 Scurry  55  Keatslan  
31  Trim  46 Toward shelter  work  
The Far Side  Gary Larson  




• 
...­
Sports 
Tuesday, February 2, 1988

~e16 
Irish meet upset-minded Terrapins on the upswing 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Continuing the toughest stretch of its season, the Notre Dame mens' basketball team faces the University of Maryland at the JACC tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The game with NCAA Tourn­ament contender Maryland comes just two days after a 78­69 loss to No. 10 Kentucky at Louisville and six days before a visit to No. 4 Duke. 
"We're trying to create a 

·(NCAA) Regional atmosphere right in the middle of the col­lege season," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "If you're in a Regional, right now you're playing Kentucky and Maryland back to back, and you have only one day in be­tween." 
Notre Dame won 63-50 at Maryland last season, defeat­ing a Terrapin squad that finished a year of disappoint­ment and turmoil with a 9-17 record. With 10 returning lettermen and an outstanding recruiting class in Bob Wade's good a team. I think this year second season as Maryland co­Maryland's going to surprise ach, the Terrapins have people in the NCAA's." already won more games than Maryland surprised the rest they did through all of last of the ACC two weeks ago by year, with a 10-6 record. They coming back and upsetting have a 3-3 record in the Atlantic Duke 72-6g in front of a stunned Coast Conference, which in­capacity crowd at Duke's cludes three more wins than Cameron Indoor Stadium. It they had in last year's ACC marked the only ACC loss so campaign. far this season for the 
"Their record's 10-6, that's conference-leading Blue no indication of how good they Devils, who have a 35-3 record are," said Phelps. "Maryland at Cameron over the last three to me gets an NCAA bid from years. the ACC because they're that "Anytime you-beat Duke at DuKe, you've got to be confi­dent you can play on the road," said Phelps. "I think that's the one win that really gave Bob Wade as well as the Marlyand players the confidence to go out and play against anybody. 
"The students are going to be a key to this game. The sixth man has to win this game for us. Knowing that Maryland beat Duke at Duke with its stu­dents, we need our students to be there for us." 
see TERPS, page 14 

Men top Wayne State; women suffer first loss 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing teams travelled to Wayne State to compete against one of their toughest rivals on Friday, and the men emerged vic­torious but the women lost in a tough match. On Saturday, both teams again added victories to theri records. 
In some of the most competitive bouts the fencing squad has seen this season, the men defeated Wayne State 18-9, and the women were barely edged out, 7-9. 
On Saturday, the men defeated Cleveland State (22-5), Detroit (21-6), Eastern Michigan (26-i), Michigan­Dearborn (24-3) and Tri-State (25-2) to extend their winning streak to an amazing 90 meets, improving Irish head coach Mike DeCicco's overall record to 517-40 (15-0 this year) coach­ing the men's team. 
"We defeated a solid Wayne State team on Friday," DeCicco said. "On Saturday, we had more depth than our opponents. Those kind of meets give our younger guys a chance to fence in a competition setting." 
Yehuda Kovacs, senior foilist from Israel, went 9-0 over the the weekend to improve his overall record to 100-7 (.935). He did this in only three seasons, becoming Notre Dame's 27th man to reach the 100-win milestone and the nth to win 100 bouts over three seasons. 
Kovacs' .935 winning percentage in foil is tops among all fencers in Notre 
• 
Dame history. "Yehuda is one of the top foilists in the country," DeCicco said. "He is the 
anchor of a very talented foil squad, and is having a fine senior season." 
Kovacs led the way for good perfor­mances by the fencers with a 3-0 record against Wayne State. Other impressive performances included Leszek Nowosielski's 3-0 effort and 2-0 records posted by Tim Collins and Danny Yu. These were the key records to the vic­tory. 
On Saturday, the women defeated Cleveland State (16-0), Detroit (15-1), Eastern Michigan (14-2), Michigan­Dearborn (16-0) and Tri-State (15-1) to make their record 13-1 for the season. 
The loss to Wayne State on Friday, however, was a big one as it snapped head coach Yves Auriol's 50-meet win streak. The streak dated back to 1984 when Auriol took the reigns as women's coach. 
"I was looking forward to the meet with Wayne State," said Auriol. "Los­ing Janice Hynes, our number three fen­cer, to academic ineligibility really hurt our team. 
"The girls looked a bit tired and did not fence as well as they had in the past. We have to regroup and aim to win this weekend." 
Indeed, both the men's and women's teams face Wayne State at home this Friday and a host of universities on Sat­urday. It will give Auriol and the wo­men's team a chance to avenge a rare loss. 
Sophomore Anne Barreda and senior Molly Sullivan continue to have out­standing seasons. Barreda was the lone 
see IRISH, page 12 
Junior World Fencingcoming to ND 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame, which was the site of the 1987 Special Olympics, has been selected to host the 1988 Junior World Fenicng Championships. The championships begin March 30 and continue until April4. This marks the third time this event will be held at Notre Dame. The cham­pionships were also held here in 1971 and 1979. 
"We're really excited about the fact this pres­tigious international event has seen fit to return to Notre Dame and the South Bend-Mishawaka area," says Michael DeCicco, Notre Dame's fencing coach and tournament director.

• 
"Both previous champion­ships were tremendous suc­cesses and made a lasting impression with everyone invoved. The hospitality, cooperation and general warmth ot the people in this area impressed the Interna­tional Fencing Federation as well as all the foreign delegations the last two times the event was here. I think we'll see the same out­pouring of support this year as well. And the calibre of fencers will be better than ever with this being an Olympic year." 

Fencers from traditional powers Italy, The U.S.S.R., France, Hungary, Poland, West Germany and China will compete. Teams from Bulgaria, Bolivia, East Ger­many, Kuwait, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Yugoslavia will com­pete for the first time. 
The Junior World Cham­pioships are limited to fen­cers under the age of 20. Men will compete for titles in the foil, epee and sabre weap­ons, while women will com­pete in the foil. 
Senior Derrick Lewis will lead the Maryland Terrapins Into the Joyce 
ACC tonight to battle the Fighting Irish. Steve Megargee previews 
the game at left. 
Split weekend 

Runners face Big Ten foes 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team competed against two strong Big Ten teams, Mic­higan and Northwestern, this 
past  weekend.  The  Irish  
returned  home  with  a  split,  
losing  to  Michigan  while  
beating  Northwestern.  The  

meet brought about many sat­isfying results for Irish head coach Joe Piane's squad. 
Sophomore Tom Crause placed first in the shot put with a distance of 56 feet 7 inches, while classmate Glenn Watson took first in the high hurdles with a time of 7.59 seconds. Freshman Jeff Smith continued his impressive jumping, taking first in the long jump with a leap of 23 feet 12 inch. Senior co-captain Rick Muench took first in the triple jump, jump­ing over 47 feet. Unfortunately, the senior suffered a heel in­jury which "happens quite fre­quently to triple jumpers," ac­cording to Piane. Muench will be out of action for approxi­mately three weeks. Yan Searcy, sophomore, turned an­other impressive time of 

1:12:14 in the 600 yard run. 
Overall, Piane was ex­tremely pleased with the per­formance of his team. 
"Being early in the season, we're not at all ashamed of the way we performed, yet we can do better. Anytime you go against a team like Michigan which is a good powerful state school and you stay competi­tive, you're doing a good job. 
"Against a team like Northwestern, which has com­parable academics and finances, we can compete even better." 
Aside from the high finishes turned in by several of the Irish athletes, coach Piane was pleased with the performances of several other athletes. Senior co-captain Dan Garrett, running in his first track meet of the season, ran an impres­sive 4:08 mile. "Considering Dan's only had a few track workouts since nationals, I'm real pleased with his perfor­mance," said Piane. 

Freshman Rob Harris, run­ning a "very tough double," ac­cording to Piane, took second in the 300 and the 400 yard dashes, running 32.14 and 50.0, ­respectively. Classmate Greg Matteo, fresh off elbow sur­gery, pole vaulted 13 feet 6 inches. "It's a miracle he's even vaulting," said Piane. 








