.....----------------­
More of the same
IACCENT: Notre Dame Magazine 
Increasing cloudiness today 

with a 30 percent chance of snow late. High 20 to 25. More snow tonight and Tuesday.

IVIEWPOINT: The campaign in cartoons 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1988
VOL. XXI, NO. 85 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's · 

Nine tickets running in 1988-89 student body election 
Cooke not to run again 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
The field is set. Tonight at midnight they're off to the races. 
Campaigning officially begins at midnight Tuesday for the nine tickets who officially declared their candidacy 
IDL!MC ELIC'riONS 
811 

Friday for student body presi­dent and vice president. The nine tickets are the most to run since 1977, when nine also ran for the posts. 
ND student assaulted in 02 lot 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
A female Notre Dame senior was assaulted Sunday night in the D-2 parking lot after being forced into her assailant's ve­hicle, said Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security. 
The student suffered a cut to the knee and some minor scrapes, Rakow said. She was treated and released from St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
Rakow said the cut was made by a sharp object believed to be a 4-inch knife. He said none of her injuries were serious. 
The case is being treated as an aggravated assault, Rakow said, adding that the victim was not assaulted sexually. 
He said the student was clearing snow from her windshield at about 5:10p.m. when the suspect approached her. The suspect then led her "by coercion and by force to the suspect's vehicle where she was physically assaulted," said Rakow. 
Rakow said the suspect was described as a white male 
Campaigning also begins at midnight for the five student senate races. 
"I think its great that so many tickets are running," said Student Body President Pat Cooke. "They obviously feel that they can make a dif­ference and are interested in serving the students." 
Although eligible, Cooke will not seek reelection. "Next year will be my last undergraduate year here at Notre Dame, and although my experiences as student body president have been countless and extremely memorable, there are pther aspects of Notre Dame that I 
see TICKETS, page 4 



about 18 years old. He was about six feet tall, 260 lbs. with short brown hair, possibly spiked in front, and acne. He was wearing a "Kiss" rock group t-shirt and blue jeans. 
Rakow said the suspect is believed not to be a student. The suspect's vehicle was seen heading northbound on Juniper Road after the incident. The ve­hicle was a late-model AMC Jeep with a yellowish-tan hardtop sunroof. 
The investigation into the in­cident is continuing, and Secur­ity has asked anyone with in­formation about the assault to contact the Security office. 

By NATASHA WILSON Staff Reporter 
A recent National Collegiate Athletic Association ruling granted permission to several Notre Dame athletes to model clothes for the upcoming ninth annual Black Cultural Arts Council Fashion Show. 
The models for "Fashion Savvy" are 16 Notre Dame stu­dents, eight women and eight men, half of whom will be re­turning varsity football players this fall. 
The NCAA ruling committee indicated Thursday that the four Notre Dame athletes could model clothes belonging to the show's sponsors because the generated funds would go di­rectly to charity, said fashion show coordinator Kim Steven­son. 

Missy Conboy, assistant ath­letic director, said the athletic department decided to seek ex­pressed permission from the NCAA after her office was "contacted by one of the fac­ulty members who just wanted to make sure that the student-athletes wouldn't jeopardize their eligibility by modeling " for the promotion of a commer­cial product. 
The committee based its decision on a "charity excep­tion" clause recently amended to the NCAA constitution. 
The clause states: "A student-athlete may promote directly a charitable or educa­tional project provided all funds generated by the use of the student-athlete's name, picture or appearance are dis­tributed directly to the charity or educational agency." 
The BCAC will donate all proceeds from the Feb. 20 show to the Martin Luther King Jr. Scholars Fellowship of South Bend, Stevenson said. 
The fellowship "attempts to reduce barriers to educational and employment opportunities (by) providing scholarships at local colleges and universities and by producing internships to King's Scholars at local busi­nesses and industry," she said. 
The student models will wear 
see MODELS, page 4 



Malloy speaks on alcohol education at NO 
mark," University President titudes have been changed," he looking at the role of alcohol inBy ERIC M. BERGAMO Father Edward Malloy said. said. student, faculty and alumni
Senior Staff Reporter 

Malloy recounted his own Alcohol abuse is not a prob­life, Malloy said. 
An urgent need for more edu­personal experience with lem found only in the United David Dannison, director of cation about alcohol abuse was people suffering from alcohol States, but also in countries like the Office of Alcohol and Drug the message at the dedication abuse. the Soviet Union and France, Education, said his office will ceremonies for the new Office "I have two uncles who are Malloy added. offer "straight messages" to of Alcohol and Drug Education alcoholics. One is now dead. "We can go across national the community about alcohol Friday afternoon at Their lives were tragic, as were borders and see how whole abuse. 
the lives of many people they societies can be eaten up by the People should "be able toTheodore's. 
"If we can collectively con­touched," Malloy said. abuse of alcohol," he noted. talk about what the experi­tinue to work in a positive di­Education about alcohol Society also trivializes alco­ences are of people who have rection, lives can be helped, abuse has helped many people, hol abuse, with people finding problems with alcohol, either suffering can be prevented and Malloy noted. reasons to get drunk, Malloy their own or people that they. 
maybe even death on occas­"The good news is many said. 

sion, and we can make our people have been helped and at-Notre Dame is currently see ALCOHOL, page 5 

Monday, February 8, 1988

a e 2 The Observer 

In Brief--· 
About 1,500 protesters converged on a U.S. air base near Athens Airport on Sunday to protest the American military presence in Greece. "Out with the Americans ­people don't want you here," the crowd shouted during the peaceful demonstration. They demanded that the United States pull its four military bases out of Greece when the installations' current operating agreement ex­pires at the end of the year. Premier Andreas Papandreou's Socialist government has begun talks with 
U.S. officials about a new agreement.-Associated Press 
Nearly 25 Roman Catholic homosexuals, singing "We Shall Overcome," were arrested Sunday following a protest Mass in front of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. The demonstration was the latest in a series of protests by Dignity, an organization of homosexual Roman Catholics that has been banned from using facilities of the New York archdiocese. A separate group of about a half­dozen demonstrators handed out condoms outside the church to protest the Church's opposition to the use of condoms to prevent the spread of AIDS. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Saint Mary's Christian Life Community will meet tonight at 5 p.m. in Room 64 Regina. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in performing for the International Festival should contact either Lizi Arzcona (283-2785) or Samira Gozaine (284-4160). All types of skits, songs and dances are desirable. The acts should have a maximum length of four minutes. Culturally diverse per­formances are especially welcome. -The Observer 
"The Max Drawings," an exhibit of a series of drawings by artist Sigmund Abeles, will be on display today through Feb. 26 in the ISIS Gallery on the third floor of Riley Hall. The gallery hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The artist will be on campus tonight at 7: 30 to discuss his work in Room 200 of Riley Hall and a reception will follow immediately in the ISIS gallery. For more information contact the Notre Dame Department of Art, Art Histoy and Design at 239-7602. -The Observer 
American Catholic Studies Seminar presents a lecture by Professor Lynn Dumenil of Claremont McKenna College on "The Tribal Twenties: The Catholic Response to Anti-Catholicism" Tuesday at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library lounge. -The Observer 
Arepresentative from Channelwill be oncampus today and Tuesday to speak to people who are interested in this post-graduate opportunity. They will be in the Hesburgh Library concourse from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and the Center for Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Frank Forsberg, a representative from VIDA, is here today. He will be in the Hesburgh Library concourse from 9 a.m. to noon and at the Center for Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Eating Awareness Trainin~ will hold its third session, "How to Deal with the Problem," tonight from 
6:30 to 7:30 in Room 300 at the University Counseling Cen­ter. This series is geared to individuals who feel they may have an eating problem or are worried about someone who may.-The Observer 
Ms. Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career and Placement Services, will give a presentation titled "Learn To Write an Effective Resume" at 4 p.m. today, in the Hesburgh Library lounge. This workshop will be repeated Thursday, same time and location. -The Observer 
Design Editor ····-···· Jane Anne Riedford Design Assistant .............. Alison Cocks Typesetters ........_... _........... Micheal Buc 
···········-·····-·-·--····················Daniel Cahill News Editor ..... ·-················· Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ·········-··Greg Lucas Sports Copy Editors ....... Rick Rietbrock 
····-·········-············---·---··---·····Greg Guffey 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Julie Colinge 

Tk ~er {USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& eum and vacation periods. Tk Olllener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (Slj per lleiDester) by writi1111 Tk Olllen'er, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, llldiana 46SS6. 
Tk Olllener is a member of Tk .u.oclaled r-r-. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Viewpoint Layout .... Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg 
Typist-·--·-······-···-·····-········ Wendy Burek ND Day Editors·-··········-Suzanne Moser ····························-············Beth Cornwell 
Photographer . . . . . . . . . . . . Susan Coene Layout Staff........ ·-Kirsten Hammontree 

Giant stomps out Hulk and an era of goodness 
Absolutely unbelieveable! 

Mter years and years of being the symbol of goodness and strength to kids everywhere, the end of his era is apparently here. 
I still can't believe it. Hulk Hogan is no longer champion of the World Wrestling Federation. 
Hulkamaniacs across the country stand with jaws on the floor, not quite understanding the implications of the Hulkster's loss Friday night to Andre the Giant. 
The WWF made its network debut Friday night, serving as a preview to "Miami Vice". Mter Randy Macho Man Savage saved the lovely Elizabeth by defeating the Honky Tonk Man, the crowd rose to its feet. 
It was time for the Main Event. 

Andre the Giant, a force of evil in today's society, wanted a rematch after the Hulkster beat him a few months back on a controversial pincount by the referee. The Hulkster knew that Andre would be up to some sort of trick, and so he called on his "mob of raging, screaming, Hulkamaniacs to keep their little eyes on the Giant's corner." 
What could the Giant possibly do with a capacity Market Square Arena crowd watching his every move? I mean, not even the 21-2-2 Irish hockey team could pack as many people in as the WWF. There were more Hoosiers in Indianapolis at Market Square than John Cougar Melloncamp could ever imagine. But the Giant had a plan. 
With a little help from a secret plastic sur­geon, the Giant's camp created a look-a-like to Dave Hammond, the referee. Mter a quick payoff to this newly created look-a-like, the Giant's corner succeeded in distracting the Hulk with some out of the ring shenanigans. The Million Dollar Man, a Giant crony, replaced one referee with another and the end of an era was coming soon. 
Andre managed to get the Hulkster down on his back. The referee began to count. One!! The Hoosier Hulkamaniacs rise to their feet. Their hero is down. Two! ! The Hulk begins to roll. Yes, his shoulder is off the mat!! He's saved!! Wait! What's this? Three!! The fight is over!! 
Nobody could believe it. They didn't even pay off the real ref. They brought in their own guy to call the fight. Andre had won the title. 
Severe depression sets in. Is nothing sacred? The integrity of the WWF is now on the line. Not since Tulane shaved points in college bas-
Jim Winkler 
Day Chief 
ketball has a scandal like this occurred. The Hulkster has filed a protest, but it doesn't look good. Who knows when Andre will offer a rematch. Now what are all the kids supposed to do with their "Hulk Hogan Championship lunch boxes?" 
Why did the Hulkster lose? Was it because he wasn't in shape? No chance: he's 302 pounds of raging flesh, with 24 inch biceps. Was it solely because of plastic surgery? Somewhat, but not entirely. Was it because now the WWF can pack a billion people into the Tremendousdome for another "Wrestlemania" event? Bingo. 
The WWF sells. Big time. Lots of money. Lunch boxes, shirts, headbands, and tickets. Big time. Lots of tickets. Wrestlemania 3, held in the Silverdome in Michigan, hosted 93,000 people. Market Square was sold out Friday night. Closer to home, the Joyce A.C.C. hosts the WWF almost twice a month. You guessed it. More people watch the Hulk and friends than watch Rivers and friends. 
The WWF has the match of its lifetime set up now. Can the Hulkster recover? Can he gat­her all the energy he needs from those young Hulkamaniacs world-wide? Will NBC televise it again? You can bet your bottom dollar the WWF has it all figured out. 

$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits 
worth as much as $25,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
All these benefits are prm·ided for one purpose: to educate and train qualified young men and women to serve as commissioned officers in the Navv. 
· 'Ibe Nm·y pays for tuition. textbooks, instructional fa.-s, and gives you an allowance ofSIOO a month for up to 20 months during your last two ye-ars ofcollege. l~pon graduation and completion of requirements, you'II become an important pan of the Na\'y ad\·emure as a Na\"y oflicer. 
Call your Na\'y representati,·c for more information on this challenging and rcwardin_g_program. 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tfm Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 

NAVY.OFFICER. LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 



FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY 
DEAN FRANCIS CASTELLONO AND THE DEPARTMENT OF THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
7:00 P.M. TUESDAY, ENGINEERING (CUSHING) FEBRUARY 9, 1988 AUDITORIUM 
COLLEGE OF. SCIENCE DEPARTMENT TOURS AND OPEN HOUSES 
Monday, February 8, 1988 

Fewer bar, party raids during winter season 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Police raids of off-campus parties and bars have decreased compared to last winter, according to South Bend Police Captain Patrick Cottrell. 
Cold weather is one reason for the drop-off in raids, Cot­trell said. 
"When it's cold and nasty outside, not that many people want to drink ou~side,'' he said. 
The last party broken up for violation of the city's noise or­dinance was on Jan. 19 at 801 
N. St. Louis St. Cottrell said that 125 people were at "what was apparently a birthday party." 
The owners of the residence cooperated with police to break up the party, Cottrell added. 
Complaints about parties from neighborhood residents, which were high at the begin­ning of the year, have dropped off dramatically since Thanks­giving break, he said. 
The police have not reduced their emphasis on looking for disruptive parties, Cottrell said, adding that once the wea­ther warms up, "we'll be on the lookout." 
Party-goers are cooperating with police and behaving better "so far (this year)," Cottrell said. "I don't want to be prema­ture." 
"Hopefully, students have learned a lesson from the past," he said. 
No bars have been raided in South Bend this year, Cottre!l said. 
Police will raid bars if they receive information that a sub­stantial number of underage students are allowed into an es­tablishment, Cottrell said. 
In January 1987, Lee's Ribs was raided by Indiana Excise Police and city police. 200 stu­dents were cited for being minors in a bar. Lee's was raided a week later and an­other three students were cited. 
South Bend Police received the information that minors were entering Lee's and passed the facts on to the excise police, Cottrell said. 

Police received several reports about underage drink­ing before Christmas break, he said, but not enough evidence was found to justify a raid when the reports were checked. 
Excise police are also check­ing bars for underage patrons, he added. 
Even with the efforts of police, Cottrell admitted that minors will still be able to get into bars. 
"No matter what we do we're (the police) not going to stop it," he said. 
In other business, there were only six reported burglaries of off-campus homes for the month of January, Cottrell said. 
Break-ins have dropped dramatically since the ap­prehension of three juveniles last month who confessed to 25 off-campus burglaries. 
The Observer 

Larry the Zamboni man smoothes over some of the rough spots during a Notre Dame hockey game. 
Dining hall h_ours extended 
By DAN MURPHY remain closed indefinitely, News Staff said Lisa Klein of University Food Services. More lines may Hungry students can expect be closed as construction con­some relief from the recent tinues through next December, swelling of dining hall crowds. she said. If the extended din­
North and South dining halls ner hours do not shrink lines are now open for dinner until 7 and there is enough student p.m., beginning this week, in demand, dinner may be ex­an attempt to reduce the un­tended until 7: 15 or 7:30, said usually long lines caused by the Klein. closing of A and B lines in North Dining Hall. There are no immediate 
plans to extend dining hall 
The two left lines at North hours for lunch, but Klein said were closed last Monday be­University Food Services may cause of construction and will be willing t9 begin lunch earlier or end it later if students show significant interest. 
A Notre Dame student wrote a letter to William Hickey, director of food services, ad­dressing the recent increase in 

' 
dinner crowds. This letter in­fluenced Hickey's decision to extend dining hours, Klein said. 
To avoid the dinner crowd at North Dining Hall, Hickey sug­gested avoiding the traditional rush hours or dining at South Dining Hall, although South is also experiencing longer than usual dinner lines, Klein said. 

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES CHEMISTRY EARTH SCIENCES MATHEMATICS PHYSICS PREPROFESSIONAL STUDIES 




FRESHMEN 
Feb. 10  7:00-8:00 P.M.  
Feb. 10  6:30-7:30. P.M.  
Feb. 10  6:30-7:30 P.M.  
Feb. 10  7:00-8:00· P.M.  
Feb. 10  6:30-7:30 P.M.  
Feb. 11  7:00-8:00 P.M.  


FRESHMEN 
283 GALVIN LifE SCIENCE 262 STEPAN CHEMISTRY 
101 EARTH SCIENCES 227 MATHEMATICS CENTER 341 NIEULAND SCIENCE 123 NIEULAND SCIENCE 

FRESHMEN 


page 4 
Security Beaf 
Thursday, February 4 

12:55 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported that his vehicle was struck while it was parked in the Main Circle sometime between 10:25 and 
II :30 p.m. on Feb. 2. Damage is estimated at $500. 
6 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her licence plate from her vehicle sometime between 12 and 5 p.m. Damage estimates are unknown. 
Friday, February 5 

12:01 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a multi-vehicle accident on Juniper Road. There were no serious injuries and damage estimates to the vehicles and to University property are unknown. 
12:17 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his watch and wallet with contents from his unlocked room sometime between I :30 and 2 
a.m. His loss is estimated at $152. 3:30p.m. A Dillon Hall resident 
Models 
continued from page 1 
clothes donated by show spon­sors Denderah's of In­dianapolis, Brooks Brothers of Indianapolis and local South Bend merchants, said Steven­son. 
In a letter written to Conboy, the NCAA stated that the names of the specific designers of the clothes worn by student­
athletes could not be mentioned director for student work , rec­during the show, Stevenson ommended that Stevenson and added. Conboy contact the NCAA. 
The fashion show, part of the ''1'he NCAA rules are so com-
The eaZy TM pc from Zenith Data Systems gives you a full-featured computer that's so simple to operate, you can be up and running within minutes after opening the box. And it even comes with a 14" monochrome moni­tor attached. Along with an easy-to-use keyboard, and compact, high-capacity 3%" disk drive. Added to all this, you get some very important extras ... 
Like service and support. As an authorized Zenith Data Systems dealer, we'll give you a full demonstra­tion. Match you up with the right software. We're also ready to follow-up to make certain your needs have been met 
So cometalk to us. Here's our calling card! 
reported the theft of his jacket and cash from his unlocked room sometime between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. His loss is estimated at $280. 
6:10 p.m. Two Saint Mary's students were caught entering campus illegally through the main gate by using an unauthorized pass. 
11:22 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall student reported the theft of his jacket from a party in Alumni Hall sometime between 10:45 and 11 p.m. His loss is estimated at $200. 
Saturday, February 6 
6:30 p.m. A suspicious person was issued a trespass warning and escorted off University property after harassing parishoners outside of Sacred Heart Church. 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a minor car accid(mt in the D6 Lot. No one was injured and damage estimates are unknown. 
11:41 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a report of four suspicious persons wandering through Grace Hall. 
BCAC's. celebration of Black History Month, will be he\d at the Century Center in S6uth Bend. 
The event was previously held on Notre Dame campus. "We were unable to get avail­able space on campus during the week we wanted," Steven­son explained. 
Mter discovering that several athletes would be modeling in the fashion show, Granville Cleveland, assistant 
The Observer 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
wish to enjoy," Cooke said. 
"It would be very difficult for me to remain as motivated as I am now throughout all of next year," he said. 
Cooke said, however, he will stay involved with student gov­ernment. "There's a lot to be done in student government," he said. "I know that I will con­tribute in some way," 
All student body president and vice president candidates are junic;>rs except for soph­more vice president hopefulls Chris Boron and Mike Car­rigan. 
Boron is running with Dis­
trict 4 senator Steve Viz, and 
Carrigan, a District 3 senator, 
is running with Mary Berger, 
one of only two women compet­
ing for student body president. 
The other, Junior Class Pres­
ident Ellen Nichols, is running 
with David Lese. Grace Hall 
vice president. 
plex that they can be inter­preted in many different ways," said Cleveland, who is also the coordinator of the Law School's sports law program. 
"I would like to see our ath­letes, whenever approached to participate in any public event, tell his or her coach and find out whether he or she can do that," he said. 
"The coordinator of any event, whether he be a faculty member or a be conscious of and responsible for what they can have the ath­lete do," Cleveland added. 
eaZy 1\f pc Sin.~le Floppy I >ri\'e: 
~u.l.!gt·~lt'd rl'Ltil pnn·: $999 our price only: $499 
I)ual Floppy I>ri \·e: 
~ll.l.!.l.!t'~ll'd rl'tail pnn·: $1199 our price only: $599 • 
Single Floppy \\"ith liard I >isk: ~ll.l.!.l.!t'~kd rl'lail prxl': $1699 our price only: $899 
Monday, February 8, 1988 

Lese's president in Grace, Tom Doyle, seeks the presi­dent's office with off-campus student Mike Paese. 
Another off-campus student, Matt Micros, is running with his Hamilton St. house-mate Pat Sheehan, while Chris Rado · will run with Russell Hines. 
From Stanford Hall, Chris­topher Johnson will run with Joe Shank while Alumni Hall's Mi~ chael Keegan will team with Dillon's Laurin Dodd. 
Rounding out the field are St. Edward's Hall's Bill Pelino and running mate Dana Togni. 
In the student senate races, only one incumbent, Sean Hof­fman, will try to regain a seat. Hoffman, District 2 senator from Stanford Hall, will run in District 1. Stanford Hall changed districts after the stu­dent senate re-districted the halls to include the two new female dorms scheduled to open this fall. 
District 1 includes Alumni, Holy Cross, Keenan,· Lewis, Sorin, Stanford and Walsh halls. 
Hoffman will be opposed by Pat Kiernan and Keenan Hall's Billy Joel. 
In Hoffman's old District 2, Breen-Phillips sophmore Mary Feliz will run against Zahm Hall freshman Tom Ehrhardt. District 2 now encompasses Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Knott, St.Edwards, Seigfreid and Zahm halls. 
A freshman and sophmore will also battle in District 3 where Howard freshman Maeve O'Donovan takes on Dil­lon sophmore Matt Thiel. Mark Chadman will also contest the race. 
District 3 includes Badin, Carroll, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey and Pangborn halls. 
Two sophmores will face each other in the District 4 race for Grace, Flanner, Pasquerilla East and · Par­querilla West halls. Grace Hall's Tom Rask will oppose Flanner's Bob Huston. 
In the race for the off -campus distrct, juniors Spera Karas and Kevin Crooks face off. 


Demo Lab 9-12 M-F. Room 113 Computing Center-x7689 -or-Fourway Computer Prod. Brad Koch 277-7720 

7'""" i data 

~ systems 
.\u1Hll~~:El 1 DEALE~ 

consider volunteering after graduation A CHANNEL representative will be available in the Library Concourse 9am-1 pm & at the esc 1pm-5pm both Monday, Feb. 8 & Tuesday, 9th. 

Monday, February 8, 1988 
• 
The Observer I Susan Coene 

I scream, you scream 
Miles Hadlock, sophomore, pours on the sauce to the joy of an awaiting customer at Fudge 'n Things in the basement of LaFortune Student 
Center 
As you know, anthe­maniacs like myself just go crazy around flowers. So what does my Valentine send me on Valentine's Day? The FfD® Love Note Bouquet! 
Well, let me tell you, when I saw those beautiful flowers in that fine porcelain bowl it drove me wild. 
Besides, this glorious bouquet also came with a note pad and pencil with which I've written my Valentine every day. 
And smart Valentines know it doesn't cost much to send us anthemaniacs into this flower frenzy. Just ask your florist to have FfD send one for you. 
For the facts call your local Red Cross, or write• AIDS 
+
American Red Cross A:i'!!:: W..ShingtDn. DC 20006 

pat ways tot 
uture 

NEUROSCIENCE 
graduate study at 

IOWA 
Stipends of up to $13,500 plus tuition provided for study leading. to the Ph.D. in Neuroscience. Write or cail (319) 335-7830. 
• p
Neuroscience rogram The University of Iowa 
5-572 Bowen Science Bldg. 
. 


,~~~~~~~O~W;a~C~rt~,~~~A~~5~2~2~4~2~;~~~:~~~~~L~Li:~9~-~~;A;r~~~ooi,;~~a~~~6;~~~oo~~~~~~~~re~
r. ----------ing the word on alcohol abuse, 
Attention Varsity Athletes 
Buy your tickets from your Captains for the 
• 

Feb. 13 J .A.C. C. Concourse 9om-2 am $10 per couple 
for further info call x2811 
-~----------~-~­
page 5
The Observer 


Campus Coke boycott continues 
By NATASHA WILSON 
Staff Reporter 
The Anti-Apartheid Network of Notre Dame continues to strive for widespread campus awareness and support of its boycott of Coca-Cola products which it organized several months ago. 
The boycott, the network's response to the University Board of Trustees' decision last fall not to divest from South Mrica, is part of a nation-wide effort to force Coca-Cola and other American companies to divest completely from the apartheid country, said Zandra IVJ:encer, network co­chairwoman. 
Mencer said the network has asked the student body to boycott all Coke products which dominate the dining halls and campus vending mac­hines. 
"The student support has been mixed. I think a lot of people really don't understand why we're doing this," she said. · 
Some of the network's publicity efforts have been foiled by a few students who have torn down boycott posters, Mencer said. 
"I think we will get a lot more support once people are aware. Right now there are quite a few people who I've noticed aren't drinking Coke products and are going for the Pepsi machines.'' 
Pepsi products may be found in a few campus vending mac­hines, but according to the Director of Food Services W'illiam Hickey, University Food Services has a contract with Coca-Cola. 
"We've wanted to put a little sign on the Coke machines saying 'remember the boycott,' but were forbidden by the Administration to put posters on anything except bul­letin boards," Mencer said. 
The network is recognized as an official campus organiza­tion. 
Mencer said she does not ex­pect the Board to boycott Coca­Cola in the near future because the Chairman of the Board is also the president of Coca-Cola. 
She said the network's core committee intends to meet with Hickey and Administration of­ficials this spring to articulate their position further. 
''Our main purpose is to make people aware of the apar­theid issue in South Mrica and to promote our arguments for economic boycott. Our stance is complete divestment." 
As part of its campaign the network holds vigils on the steps of the Administration Building every Friday after­noon at 12: 15. 
The group plans to sponsor 
.

Opposition leader res1gns 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea -The president of South Korea's leading opposition party an­nounced his resignation Mon­day to help unify opposition po­litical forces for upcoming parliamentary elections. 
"United, we will survive, otherwise we will die," said Kim Young-sam, who finished second to governing party can­didate Rob Tae-woo in presidential elections last December. 
Kim said he would remain a member of the Reunification and Democratic Party, but picking a new leader would be "up to the party. I am no longer 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
care about. We're going to try to give straight messages and





r-----­
TWILIGHT RETREAT, ­

for WomenI 6:30-11 p.m. Feb. 19th, FridayIWhere? 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
L. (four blocks so. of the circle) 
citing BACCHUS and a five­part series on alcohol in last week's Observer as examples. 
Father David Tyson, vice president for Student Mfairs, and Ann Firth, director of Residence Life, also spoke at the dedication ceremonies. 
Executive President Father 

E. William Beauchamp gave the invocation and Associate Provost Sister John Miriam Jones gave the benediction . 
in a position to meddle." 
Kim  and  rival  opposition  
leader  Kim  Dae-jung  of  the  
Party  for  Peace  and  

Democracy split 55 percent of the presidential vote. Rob of the Democratic Justice Party gained 36.6 percent of the Dec. 16 vote. 
He told a news conference at party headquarters that the op­position lost the presidential election because of a split and must unite to win the National Assembly elections, expected in April. 
It was not know who would succeed Kim or if the party would adopt collective leader­ship. • 

teach (students) how to take straight messages," Dannison said. 
Dannison said goals for the office include establishing edu­cation programs in residence halls and promoting non­
alcoholic events on campus. The office will also provide an 
information and resource cen­ter, he added. ·Dannison noted that groups 
an "unlock the doors of South • Mrican prisons" event in protest to the treatment of po­
litical prisoners like Willie Mandela, Mencer said. 
They will collect old keys and present them to the Adminis­tration during one of their vigils. Similar presentations have taken place all over the country, she said. 
The network is currently sponsoring an eight week film series on South Mrica and Apartheid at the Center For So­cial Concerns. 
The next five documentaries, held Thursday nights at 7:30, will depict the progression of apartheid, Mencer said. 
This month the network will begin "dorm to dorm" ~alks to present the . apartheid and boycott issues to the students, Mencer said. 
Julie Coyle, network trea­surer, said more students have responded positively to the di­vestment issue than the boycott. "Any reaction is better than nothing. It's important just keeping people aware of· is­sues," Coyle said. 
•

Business
page 6 Monday, February 8, 1988 

Kodak dumps discs 
a Eastman Kodak Co. announced last week that it will stop production of its line of disc cameras. The suspension will continue until the company can lower its current disc camera inventory. 
Kodak developed the disc camera six years ago, hoping to lure 35 mm. camera users. The company has sold about 25 million disc cameras since 1982, and will continue to sell film to service these cameras. 

Wholihan and Murray 
Business Briefs 
Why is Kodak dropping the disc camera? Demand for the disc camera has dropped even though the price of the most expensive model is $60. Japanese manufactured 35 mm. cameras, which produce higher quality pictures, are now selling for under $100. In addition, most 35mm. cameras are easy to use, which was the disc camera's main selling point. 
u 007 -With a little cash and the curiousity of a private 
detective, there are devices available that can make you a 
veritable James Bond. These contraptions are all illegal, ac­
cording to Venture Magazine, if used for survailance, but be 
aware of what the other side just may have. 
A bit mundane, but nonetheless useful is the Nightfinder 
a $3000 pair of binoculars that allows one to see in almost 
absolute darkness. Other versions come with VCR attach­
ments. Next, is a microphone that will hear through walls 
over a hundred feet. It is called the Professional Long Dis­
tance Microphone System and is sold by a California company 
for $159. Radio Shack also makes a "baby room" monitor 
that picks up conversations from over 100 feet. It sells for 
$39.95. For $80 more you can get a microphone the size of a 
bullet with a ten hour cassette to inconspicuously record 
class lectures, of course. 
Perhaps the most ingeneous eavesdropping devices are 
those made for phones. In order to determine if another 
person is listening to your phone converstation from another 
line, a device checks the drop in voltage, an indication that 
two phones are off the hook. It sells for $19 dollars to $1000 
(in Beverly Hills), depending on whether or not you want 
the device hidden in a walnut cigar box. Finally, (and we 
are not making this one up) a device can be hooked up to 
your telephone that allows you to dial any number in the 
world, and monitor that room through your phone. It is only 
legal in Germany. 
u Goodby Barbie-Ten years ago Mattei Inc. opened opera­tions in the Philippines. Labor difficulties have climaxed, and 2,000 workers will lose their jobs when the plant closes down this month according to the Wall Street Journal. Mattei Philippines, which exported the popular Barbie dolls, had 1986 sales of $13.9 million. Falling sales and increasing labor problems were cited for Mattei's pull out. Mattei hoped that cutting 1,800 workers last year would have allowed them to remain in the Philippines ..: 
u The Last Word -J. Paul Getty, 
from My Life and l''ortunes: " The rich are not born skeptical 
o~ cynical. They are made that way by events, 
crrcumstances--and most especially by the countless people 
whq have barracuda leers (and barracuda instincts and in­
tentions) hidden behind their broad and beautific smiles." 
Presidential Candidates . ith the Largest Debts 
(in millions of dollars) ~0 rt-~~ o.:sG 
~~ ~<::-~ {::-~ ~<::­
~v cP -<-~ ~v &e; 
~ ~ ~ bo~ 
'S~ )§' 0~ ~~ )§' 
1.5----­
Federal Election Commission 
Fund raising program aims to spur Uni"versity growth 
By SUSAN COENE Business Writer 
Growth is recognized in busi­ness as the needed ingredient to ensure an active, healthy company. This is also true in the world of academics. Uni­versities are constantly setting new goals for expansion and de­velopment. 
Notre Dame is no different. 
With a clear vision of the fu­ture of academia at Notre Dame, Provost Timothy O'Meara presented former University President Father Theodore Hesburgh with "A Report on Priorities and Com­mitments for Excellence (PACE) at the University of Notre Dame" in November 1982. 
Hesburgh asked O'Meara to conduct a study and formulate a report on the status of the University and its needs for the future. The PACE Report was the result. 
With the advice of the deans of all the colleges, the PACE Report includes recommen­dations on how to strengthen the weaknesses and maintain or improve the strengths of the University. 
Its goals are to redefine the mission of life at Notre Dame. 
These include the areas of re­search, undergraduate schol­arships, graduate fellowships, new library collections and new buildings. This also en­compasses the improvement of residence life and the expan­sion of campus ministry. 
O'Meara's PACE Report in­
itiated  a  plan;  all  that  was  
needed  were  financial  re­ 
sources.  

In May of 1983 the PACE Report was published and a campaign strategy was devised. Entitled "A Strategic Moment," the campaign's goal exceeds all previous fundrais­ing drives combined; $300 mil­lion. · 
The campaign is striving to attain a level of excellence for the University. Ultimately the campaign's goal is for Notre Dame to rank among the best in both undergraduate and graduate studies. 
This, to say the least, re­quires money. 
The Strategic Moment Cam­paign is now well under way. At the time of its inauguration last May, over 70 percent of its $300 million goal had already been-achieved. Presently, the campaign's success has totaled nearly $250 million (approximately 83 percent of the goal.) 
These advances can be readily seen in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Eck Tennis Pavillion, the Loftus All-Sports Center, North Dining Hall and LaFortune renovations, Siegfried and Knott residence halls, the Fieldhouse, the Law School addition and the res­torations of Sacred Heart and the Main Administration Build­ing. 

Less obvious improvements include new research profes­sors, equipment, undergradu­ate scholarship funds, and 
• graduate fellowships. How are these funds raised? One means is through direct solicitation to individuals. The majority of contributors include alumni or other individ­uals who not only have the means to contribute, but also a personal interest in the better­ment ofthe University. A second group of con­tributors is largely composed of Trustees and Council mem­hers who advise the deans on the direction of their colleges and then seek out prospects for funding.. Although fewer in number, they account for the majority of the donations. Another means of raising funds is through the Special Gift Function. This strategy consists of conventions in 65 cities around the country. A group of three (a Trustee, an Officer and a Director of De­velopment) market Notre Dame, campaigning for dollars according to the needs of the University. 
Terry Fairholm, a regional director of development said, "These functions play a key role in securing funds. However, some of the desired funds are easier to attain than others." 
Fairholm continued, "For example, it is more difficult to market the Center for Social Concerns or the University Ministry projects than it is to sell athletics, as seen by the new athletic facilities on campus." 
One problem faced by fundraisers is the inevitable disproportionate collection of funds for various projects. In addition, new priorities have arisen forcing some original plans to be put on hold. This is reflected in the abundance of funds in some areas and the lack of funds in others. 
For example, an addition to Niewland Science Hall has come to light with a $500,000 grant from the Lilly Endow­ment, Inc. in October. The In­stitute for International Peace Studies is also doing well, ex­ceeding its goal of $6 million by $7.2 million. 
Unfortunately, some major priorities are having more dif­ficulty. Despite the fact that the Hesburgh Library is one of the nation's largest, the number and quality of volumes is hardly adequate. 
Fairholm said, "For some reason funding for the library is hard to come by." Its $10 mil­lion goal is short $7.3 million. 
Among the ranks of the un­derfunded also include the un­dergraduate scholarship and graduate fellowship funds. Both of these along with the li­brary endowment are crucial to the future of the University. · 
The fund raising drive has until Dec. 31, 1990 to collect the $50 million needed to reach the campaign's goal of $300 mil­lion. 
Although some concern has been expressed about the focus of the drive and its priorites, the development committee of the Strategic Moment is making a more conscience ef­fort to follow the original objec­tives of the campaign. 
The ultimate hope is that once these goals are met Notre Dame will be recognized as among America's finest aca­demic institutions. 

Trade figures to shape market 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Wall Street will be setting another trade-deficit watch in the coming week, waiting for a new set of monthly figures Friday on the nation's exports and imports. 
The mood is perhaps a little less intense than it was leading up to Jan. 15, when the Com­merce Department presented the markets with a pleasant surprise. 
The reported gap, by which 
U.S. imports exceeded exports, fell to $13.22 billion in Novem­ber, from $17:63 billion the month before. That helped to ease many investors concerns' about the outlook for the dollar, domestic interest rates and the economy. 
But the statistics for Decem­ber will still be subjected to close scrutiny by economists and market analysts. 
A single month's ·numbers are notoriously unreliable as a sign of any trend, and optimists on the trade outlook would very much like to see December data that reinforce their hopes. 
At the same time, many analysts caution that it is un­reasonable to look for more dramatic gains in the coming report. The drop in November is likely to prove a "tough act to follow," as Maury Harris, economist at Paine Webber, put it. 
"Investors will focus on the December trade figHre as a guide to whether the trade numbers for :November were closer to the trend than were last October's," said Greg Smith at Prudential-Bache Se­curities. 
Smith recalled that Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, had described the October figures, shortly after they were re­ported, as an aberration that was likely to be reversed in the next set of data. 
"That point of view appears to have been vindicated in No­vember," Smith observed. "I suspect that it was not a loose comment, that a lot of thought and homework had gone into it." 
By now the problem for the stock market may have gone beyond a fixation with the trade deficit. 
In the past month the dollar has steadied in foreign ex­change, interest rates have fal­len, and signs have increased that strong exports are helping to foster a brisk pace of activity in American manufacturing. 


r----------~-----·~------~-~-~~----------------~-----~--~ 
Accent
Monday, February 8, 1988 page 7 
Notre Dame Magazine Publication offers 'continuing education' 
Notre Dame graduate, clarifies "In order to get better, the Uni­the role of the campus news versity needs constructive section. "It's more analysis and criticism and to bring looking at the broader issues problems out into the open." concerning what is going on campus," he says, "Some top­How does Notre Dame ap­ics include admissions, the so­pear to the 25, 000 subscribers cial situation, or drinking on called "friends of the Univer­campus." sity" who are not alumni? "The 
Notre Dame Magazine presents 

The "Features" section of the the university as a place that is magazine contains a variety of intellectually alive and Inter­insightful essays that are alike ested, where there is a real only in their depth and vision. dialogue going on," says Temple explains, "The features Temple, "I think that it articles cover events, issues, or represents the University well." ideas in the same way as Newsweek or The Atlantic Starting in 1978 the maga­Monthly, but we try to set them zine Introduced a voluntary in some moral, ethical, or spiri­subscription plan. Although tual point of view. We explore alumni and their parents still what it means to be human." received gratis subscriptions, 
The small magazine staff they could also donate money strives to publish what Temple to the magazine. This money describes as "very readable, was used to hire some free­well written, fresh" articles on lance writers and artists and to issues that may have been pay for the use of color in the overdone by the press. For ex­magazine. Temple claims that ample, the upcoming spring the way in which the staff used issue will contain an article on these donations has dramati­
E 
SARAH VOIGT Give up yet? The Notre Dame became a professional football a Holy Cross priest who is also cally improved the quality of accent writer Magazine, one of the country's player, then a professional an anthropologist and will ex­the magazine. foremost alumni publications, wrestler, and finally a psycholo­plore how AIDS has affected "The alumni don't really stop ver wish that the spirit of presents alumni notes, gist. During the Tylenol cyanide the social fabric of a small vil­their education, Temple says, Intellectual discovery and analyzes campus news, and crises, the alum who was head lage in Africa where the disease "There are certain people on the exchange of ideas encour­features a variety of thoughtful of the company's public rela­has reached epidemic propor­campus, certain ideas that they aged here at Notre Dame could essays. 
tions department explained tions. can still learn about. The mag­Candidness is another aspect azine is a way of taking the
continue after graduation? Well how he handled the contro­It can. In order to rekindle The "Class Notes" section of versy. of the magazine which differen­dialogue among faculty, staff those sparks of Insight, you Notre Dame Magazine provides Notre Dame Magazine also tiates it from many other and students out to the alumni. informs its readers of campus alumni publications. Writers for Sometimes these are social
will not have to visit favorite alumni with information about Notre Dame Magazine direct issues, current affairs or church
professors, make a pilgrimage their classmates and regional events and developments. Due to your favorite spot in the li­Notre Dame clubs. Every issue to its quarterly publication, the their messages to a thoughtful, related topics." brary or stroll around the also includes an alumni profile news stories tend to analyze educated audience. "Our Borrow a copy from a senior Jakes. Instead, your education that focuses on a Notre Dame 
campus trends rather than feeling is that to have and get a preview of a maga­
will be delivered to your home graduate. For example, the simply relate facts. Kerry credibility with your readership zine that aims to enlighten and four times a year beginning most recent issue highlights a Temple, the magazine's you ought to be honest and educate Notre Dame alumni senior year. Notre Dame football player who 
managing editor and a 1974 straightfoward," Temple says, long after graduation. 
Life Raft provides support in dealing with death 
kept, and everything will Sophomore Krista Smith also bring together everyone from anyone dealing with a situation
MAUREEN DEVLIN remain confidential." emphasizes that friends of all sides of the Issue to learn of this sort: You're not alone. 
L
accent writer Coleman and two Notre Dame the ill can benefit from Life from each other. "The grieving You feel very alone but you're ife Raft is a new outreach students have organized the Raft, recalling the fears of her process has been described as not," Harrington says, "Come-­program on campus con­program which Coleman refers own family and roommates 'acceptance, acceptance, accep­at least to one meeting--and cerned with the needs of those to as "a supplemental resource when she was diagnosed with tance.' Through talking to see that others are out there." members of the Notre Dame to the services already offered leukemia last year. "What I others you learn to understand; Life Raft will meet every community whose lives have to students through Campus went through wasn't that bad, through understanding you other Tuesday at noon begin­been affected by a life­Ministry." All of the group's but for my friends it seemed learn to accept." ning this week at the Center threatening illness--either of organizers stress, however, worse because they weren't "A word of encouragement to for Social Concerns. their own or of someone they that the meetings are not for sure what was going to hap­care about. students only, and they encour­pen. You're not as afraid of the age faculty and staff members Illness the more you know Modelled after the successful to take advantage of the pro­about it, the more you talk 
Accent announces 
project started at Harvard Uni­gram as well. about it. It may not be someth­versity five years ago, the pro­The organizers also received ing you want to hear, but gram will consist of discussion support from Carol Seager, something you need to hear. 
promotions
sessions during which stu­director of University Health Maybe we can help, or maybe dents, faculty and staff mem­Services, who has found that we'll know someone who can." 
The Accent department of Buckley of Los Altos, Calif.,
bers will have the opportunity students often have questions The Observer is pleased to freshman Michelle Berningerto talk. listen and ask for feed­about the health of others be­Jim Harrington, a junior, announce the promotion of of Rockville, Md., sopho­back. Although the group will sides themselves. She con­sees the group as a vehicle to two staff members to the more Theresa Loomis ofnot have a formal leader, an siders Health Services to be a deal with the grieving process position of Assistant Accent Inner Grove Heights, Minn.,
adviser sensitive to problems natural referral source for the and stresses the importance of Editor. and freshman Matt Murphyexperienced by people suffer­group due to Its contact with having a place where one can Sophomore Trisha Cham­of Casper, Wyo.
ing from grief will be present the local medical community, go to simply speak out and bers of Chesterland, Ohio, afor support. and she is willing to possibly voice questions as a means of former Accent copy editor,arrange to have speakers or coping. "What we want to offer has been promoted to this"There is no pressure to say other help brought in if re­is not a counseling or therapy position along with Bethanything at all," explains Sally quested. session, but simply a chance Healy, a sophomore fromColeman, staff counselor at the Says Seager, "The best thing for Individuals in an intellectual Midlothian, Ill., who servedUniversity Counseling Center, about the group is that it will community to say what's on as a copy editor for Accent"You may just want to listen be driven by the participants their minds," he says. 
and as Assistant Scene and observe, but everyone will themselves, allowing their Harrington, who mourns the Design Editor.

have the chance to speak if he needs at that time to be met. death of his younger sister last Four new Accent copywants to. We want to establish Success or failure will not be March from a long-term Illness, editors have also recentlya safe and comfortable determined simply by the num­feels that an important feature been hired: Junior Susanatmosphere--no records will be bers present." of the program is that it will 


----------------~-----~--------~---~~-----· 
---·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 8, 1988 
The 1988 
Young voters can affect the path of the nation 
When I first turned 18, I was thrilled. Eighteen is an important­sounding age, and I figured that I must be up for some new privileges. Well, the drinking age was raised to 21, I already had my driver's license (though my car is now in the hot little hands of my younger brother at 
Julie Scharfenberg 
guest column 

home in Alabama), and I'm now quite regulated by class schedules, parietals and other University policies (though eating at the dining hall may be a very well-disguised privilege). After some reflection, I decided that I really wasn't the recipient of any major adult privileges at this particular mile­stone in my life (not being a guy, I'm not lucky enough to be able to reg­ister for the draft). But then I realized that there was one privilege I had overlooked -as do far too many people my age: the privilege of voting. 
Before scoffing, dismissing me as an idealist, spilling mustard on this page of the paper and flipping to the personals, consider this: The U.S. Census Bureau has determined that in the last presidential election only 
40.8 percent of eligible voters in the 18-24 age bracket exercised the right to vote. In that same election, 58.4 percent of 25-44 year-olds voted, 69.8 percent of 45-64 year-olds went to the polls, and 67.7 percent of those 65 and older flocked to the voting booths in support of their favorite candidates (or, more likely, to vote against the candidates they most disliked). What is most alarming to me is not the percentages themselves (though it would be nice if all voting-aged citizens would vote), but the poor participation rate of young voters in relation to the rest of the population. Why do 59.2 percent of citizens our age fail to go to the polls? Do we think we don't matter? That no one will listen to our opinions? That we're not intelligent enough to make important decisions? 
We do matter. We are an impor­tant segment of the American popu­lation, full of new ideas and new ways of looking at events and human relations. As a group we have quite an impact on society: industry spends billions of dollars each year to target the youthful segment of so­ciety through marketing and adver­tising. We can certainly have the same sort of impact in the political arena. 
This generation of young voters is a very educated group of people -in 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Viewp 
election finally gets 
Editor's note: Today Iowans will meet at their caucuses to choose delegates for the Democratic and Republican national coventions later this summer. Here are some of the impressions of cartoonist Jim Borgman, who has spent time in Iowa observing the entire 
process. 

fact, it is the most well-educated group overall in American society. More young people are going to col­lege now than ever before, and many have plans for graduate and profes­sional school. Though we may not have as much actual experience as older citizens, we do have some valu­able experience and quite a bit of knowledge of people, our country and the world. Our generation was practically raised on television, newspapers and radio -we are as aware as any other age group of what goes on around us (and I don't just mean SYRs and interhall bas­ketball games). Although we are young people enjoying college, we still do and should have a say about who governs our country and our respective states: after all, we pay taxes, drink the (polluted) water, look for jobs and live in a country that plays an active (and sometimes risky) role in world affairs. And soon we will be a part of the "real" world, more affected than ever by the gov­ernment and the people who are part of it. It seems to me that we should help determine the future of America: after all, we are the people who will be its future political leaders, businesspeople, teachers 
Editorial Board 
and professionals. 
But one little vote by a denim­bedecked college student can't pos­sibly affect anything the government does, you say. At the risk of sounding like the starry-eyed new millionaires on American Family Sweepstakes commercials, that is what the senior citizens of this country used to think. Now they are one of the most pow­erful special interest groups in this country. If you don't believe the im­pact they have upon the government, watch the painful expressions on the faces of congressmen and presiden­tial candidates when they are asked about Social Security -most would rather be seen on a Caribbean cruise with an attractive model before they would even mention a re-evaluation 
Operations Board 
of this program. I a criticizing or even against the impact citizens on society; demonstrating the iJ ticular segment of th• have upon governme it: we are a part of that must fight for o port the baby-boom g1 it reaches retirement the society developec for the longest perioc future. We are not merely inheriting · policies: we can cha them. 
Julie Scharfenberg i 
Freshmam Year of 
Editor-in-Chief .................................... Kevin Becker Bus:oess Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ......................... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . ... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor....... .. . . .. . . . . . . .. .. . .......... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor . .............................Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .. ........................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .. .. .. .. .... . .. .... . .. .. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor . ..................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor. . . . .. . . . . . ........................... Jim Carroll 
Founded November3,1968 
oint 
page 8 -9 

P.O. Box Q
under way l ] 
All who fasted deserve thanks 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to take the opportu­nity, on behalf of the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition, to thank the students who participated in last se­mester's Wednesday Lunch Fast. Certainly no one enjoys doing with­out food. This also applies to the many destitute and starving people overseas. But because of your indi­vidual sacrifices, they will not have to endure quite as much. Next week, $3,150 will be sent out to seven proj­ects located in India, Mrica and South America. At the Chol-Chol Foundations in Chile, the money is used to finance farmers' crops with good seeds and fertilizer, circum­venting the government's poorer quality seeds and interest payments. India's Paroo Prakhand Samagra Vika Pariyojna project installed a water pump and allowed them to start raising goats and pigs. The other projects, just like these two, are interested in getting the people to feed themselves, to stabilize their lives. 
Stability continues at Notre Dame 
also. I would like to extend a sincere 
thank you to the 400-plus students 
who signed up this semester for the 
Wednesday Lunch Fast. This 
reflects an increase over the last se­
mester. If everyone can make it 
through to May without breaking his 
or her commitment, over $5,000 
could be diverted to these worthy 
projects. Thanks again! 
Ron Burkhart World Hunger Coalition February 4, 1988 
Prejudice comes from all sides 
Dear Editor: 
Are you prejudiced? This question is akin to asking people if they like South Bend weather. Yes and no. I mean, it's great in the spring, but it stinks during the winter. I find myself able to give a similar answer to the question of prejudice. Yes and no. Show me any man who is without prejudice and I will show you God. 
With all due respect to Mr. Dennis Tillman and his Viewpoint article of Feb. 2, some of the problem caused by prejudice emanates from blacks themselves. Perhaps it is my im­agination, but it sure seems easier for a black to be accepted into white circles than vice-versa. Isn't there an element of prejudice involved there? 
Further, the generalizations which accompany discussions of prejudice exceed epic proportions. I have had conversations with black friends concerning racism and have almost always come away from them feeling like we had been talking about two absolutely different breeds of white person. Neither I nor any of my friends fit their descrip­tions, and, since I can only speak for myself, I had trouble pinpointing ex­actly what raised the ire of my black friends. 
These generalizations make life equally difficult for the average, in­nocent, nonmalicious white person. For example, a banner hung from a dorm window before the Michigan State football game which read: "Notre Dame will turn Lorenzo White." To the average Notre Dame 
.....,
football attendee this is not a state­ment of white supremacy. It's a pun, a play on words, a joke. It's his name for God's sake! Unfortunately, some complained that the banner was racist, and the residents were forced to take it down. "A racist behind every rock and tree" is not a credo which is productive for any cause. 
I realize that there are serious 
cases of rasicm which exist, but let 
us try and distinguish a little more 
accurately between them and inno­
cent attempts at humor. Next time 
the question of prejudice comes up, 
ask yourself: "Do I like South Bend 
weather?" 
Joe Euteneuer Flanner Hall February 4, 198~ 

certainly not speaking out of these older I am simply fluence a par­population can 
t. Think about the age group r country, sup­neration when age and live in by our elders of time in the 
relegated to stitutions and ge and create 
enrolled in the tudies. 
Doonesbury 
1-,-; (AIJE} f?&TIN·A,  ASPIRIN. FOR. lJAOlJY~  
HF: IT'S A CRJ3AM,  H&ART. Het... tuH!31<&'5  
PJHAT'5  TO GI3T RJP OF  MY HAIR 5TUFF?...  
& THAT,  tuR.JNI<L£5.  \  
~ lJA(){)Y?  

JOANie? lJI() YOU f)R[)p OFF MY MINOXIlJIL.PR£5CRJPTION AT THe lJRIJG :;roR&? JOANIE.'if 
"' 

ll£V BilLED IT At; A~1E.MlJE~~1ES' 
~w~ PRETT'1'9.1Bll£•. 
TASTES G~~T! LE§RLUNG! 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day 
"The glory of friendship is not the outstretched hand ... nor the joy of compan­ionship, it is the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when he d i s covers that someone else be­lieves in him, and is willing to trust him with their friendship." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
Monday, February 8, 1988
page 10 The Observer 
ger Phelps said afterward. "David didn't play well," "I don't understand it. In the Phelps said. "When he goes 3­last three games we've had an 17 and we still shoot 50 percent
Sports Briefs . Loss 
continued from page 16 
unbelievable number of walks (23-46), that means the other 
Jim Kelly scored the game's only touchdown on a one-yard rollout in the second quarter to give the AFC a 15-6 win in the Pro Bowl Sunday night. Dean Biasucci kicked a pair of field goals and Joe Montana stepped out of the end zone while trying to pass for the other AFC scores. -Associated Press 
In the NHL Sunday, Boston knocked off New Jersey 6-3, the New York Rangers pounded Pittsburgh 6-3 Chicago tied Quebec 5-5, and Hartford topped Toronto 4-2: -Associated Press 
Nancy Lopez bogeyed three of her first seven holes in the final ~ound but held on to win the $200,000 LPGA Mazda Classic Sunday. -Associated Press 
Anyone interested in forming a women's rugby team please call Lauren (3560), Sarah (4039) or Kathy (4067). No experience necessary. -The Observer 
The men's volleyball team plays tonight in the JACC Pit against Toledo at 7:30p.m. This past weekend, the team finished second in the Michigan Invitational, losing to Ohio State in the finals. Notre Dame's record now stands at 10-2 overall. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club is travelling to Tulane University this weekend for the Mardi Gras Regatta. Any club mem­ber interested in going on this trip should contact Pete Wall at 1787. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Troy Lewis scored 14 of his 20 points in the second half to lead sixth-ranked Purdue over 11th-ranked Mic­higan Sunday 91-87. Gary Grant led Michigan with 32 points. -Associated Press 
Blue Devils closed the halfwith called on us. In the first half, a 10-5 run which cut the lead to of the nine turnovers we had, 35-32. In the second half, the six were walking calls. I just Devils scrapped to the lead and can't understand why you can't rode their tenacious defense to use your pivot foot as part of the victory. your fake." 
"I thought the most impor-The Blue Devils were up by tant minutes of the game were five at 58-53 when another call the last three minutes and went against the Irish. Rivers thirty-something seconds of the began to penetrate and King first half," said Duke head stepped in to draw an offensive Coact Mike Krzyzewski, whose foul. squad upped its record to 16-3. The two teams traded bas­"At that time the group we had kets but then with three in there really got us back in seconds left on the shot clock, the game, and set the tempo Ferry hit a three-pointer from for the rest of the game." the right baseline to put Duke 
And when Duke took the lead, on top 63-55 with 2: 16left to play the Irish couldn't hit the buck-and finished Notre Dame. ets to get back in it. Duke took The one bright spot for Notre the lead on a King bucket which Dame was Fredrick's scoring. followed another of the contro-Fredrick, who has started the versial walking calls which last two games and played also have plagued the Irish in most of the loss to Kentucky, their last few games. has made the most of Mark 
With the Irish up 48-47, Stevenson's suspension, which Jamere Jackson threw the ball ended with Sunday's game. away, but Rivers came up with "I just want to take advan­a steal following Duke's in-tage of the time that I'm get­bounds play. He drove, pumped ting," Fredrick said. "I wasn't fak_ed, shot, sco~ed, and a trying to score. That's just the whistle blew. But mstead of a way it was happening. Keith foul call, Rivers was called for (Robinson) and Gary (Voce) walking. Instead of Notre were setting good screens. Dame having a chance to go up "You just start getting in a four, the Blue Devils went down rhythm. You get the feeling the floor to take a lead they that every time you throw it up, never relinquished. you get the feeling that it's 
"I thought the turnaround of going to"to in." the game was when Rivers Fredrick scoring was all the made the steal, scored and gets more crucial in light of Rivers' fouled -a possible four-point off day, and if another player play -and he gets called for a had stepped up, this story walk," Irish head Coach Dig-might have a happier ending. 
guys go 20-29. Part of that was the big guy (the 6-6 King) on Rivers, and our inside guys had an advantage. We just needed to do a better job of finding the other people." 
Sunday's Results 
Duke 70, Notre Dame 61 
Notre Dame (61) 

M FG·A FT·A R F p 
Fredrick 40 9-13 5·6 3 5 23 
Robinson 32 3·4 2·3 15 3 8 
Voce 37 4-4 3·4 7 1 11 
J. Jackson 28 2-4 2-2 0 5 6 Rivers 37 3-17 3-4 3 3 9 Connor 7 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Paddock 9 0-1 0-0 1 2 0 Singleton 4 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 Ellery 4 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 
T. Jackson 2 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 200 23-46 15·19 30 20 61 
FG Pet. -.500. FT Pet. -.789. Team 
rebounds -1. 3-point FG 0-4 (Fredrick 0-1, 
Rivers 0-3). Turnovers -18. Assists -6 
(Fredrick, Rivers and J. Jackson 2). Techni­
cals-none. 
Duke (70) 

M FG·A FT·A R F p Ferry 38 6-12 2-2 6 2 16 King 35 5-7 1·2 3 2 11 Brickey 23 5-7 3-5 1 4 13 Henderson 16 2-7 0-0 0 2 5 Strickland 29 4-11 4-4 4 1 14 Abdelnaby 9 0-2 0-0 4 1 0 Snyder 30 3·6 0-0 0 3 8 Koubek 14 1-4 0-0 0 2 3 Cook 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Smith 3 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 Buckley 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 200 26·56 10·13 19 17 62 
FG Pet. -.464. FT Pet. • .769. Team rebounds -2. 3-point FG 8-17 (Ferry 2-3, Henderson 1·2, Strickland 2·6, Snyder 2-2, Koubek 1-4). Turnovers -11. Assisis -19 (Snyder 7). Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 35, Duke 32. Offi­cials -Joe Forte, Gerry Donaghy, George Toliver (all ACC). A -8,564. 
11lea.--Notnt Deme offlc:e, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent CenW, .cc:epts claaslfled ec:tw.tllllng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttwougtt Friday. The a.--Seint aa.ya office, located on the third floor of H-uo-Collge Cent.-, .cc:epts clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next..s.y cluslfledala 3 p.m. All cluslfleda must
Classifieds be pntpakl, either In person Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five ctw.ctera per day. 
\ NOTICES 

Sony Diskettes Contact Tim Dierks of MadMacs for the best price on Sony D&DD 3.5" diskettes for your Macintosh r other computer. Call 283-2101 and help support the Macin­tosh Users Group! Guaranteed for llfa 
TYPING-WORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2124 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING -CALL DOLORES 237-1949 

································································ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Terrie's Typing 287·1283 WORD PROCESSING, LASER PRINTER, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, CAN SAVE ON DISK, FOOTNOTES, RESUMES. 
................................................................ 
HALLMARK PRESENTATIONIIAII wel­come. rm 124 Hayes Healy, Tues. Feb9. 7pm 
H~;,;;;~~k..P~~~~i~i~~~iiA"ti··~;i;;;;;;;~:··;;;, 
124 Hayes healy, lues Feb 9 7 pm 
' LOST/FOUND I 

LOST: GOLD-RIMMED GLASSES IN A . BROWN CASE ON TUES JAN. 26. THE CASE SAID SEBASTIAN ON IT. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL CHRIS 
AT X2039 OR X2040. 
................................................................ 
FOUND: One white silk woman's scarf with a paisley print on n. It was in the Keenan Lobby alter the world famous Keenan Revue Party. II nis yours, please call Dan lzzo at 3319 as it doesn't go with anything I own. 
................................................................ 
Lost: Detex, keys, and ID between Badin and South Dining Hall. II found, call3720. 
lost: TRIANGLE-SHAPED BLACK LACE HEAD SCARF. CALL DAY 239-5654 GENEROUS REWARDIII 
i:os:r;···vi\Fisrrv···i:"ETiiii···:iAci<"ET 
TAKEN FROM THE LOFTUS WEIGHTROOM ON FEB. 1 BETWEEN 5-6 PM. I WORKED 4 YEARS TO GET THIS AND WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF YOU COULD RETURN IT. CALL JOHN 1075. 
I LOST A PAIR OF HUGE, WOOL, OR· ANGE, LIGHT BLUE,AND GREEN MIT· TENS IN O'SHAG. PLEASE RETURN TO TIFFANY 3390 IF FOUND -THEY ARE THE ONLY THINGS THAT WILL EVER MATCH AN ORANGE COAT. THANK YOU! 
FOUND: White and light blue Red Sky wool and acrylic sweater on sidewalk be­tween Grace and P.E. last Friday. Call 271-0845 
FOUND: GOLD RING ON NORTH QUAD. CALL KATHY TO IDENTIFY. 2892. 
LOSIILOSTIILOST!ILOSTIILOSTI! BROWN LEATHER WALLET WITH GOLD LETTERING C.S. ON FRONT. PLEASE RETURN IT. HIGH SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE!! CALL x2508 REWARDIIREWARD!I 
FOUND: PLASTIC EYEGLASS LENS BElWEEN NIEULAND SCIENCE AND LAFORTUNE SEE LAFORTUNE LOST AND FOUND TO CLAIM. 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 2n­3097, 683-8889. 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED RANCH 3 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS WASHER, DRYER, OVEN, STOVE, REFRIGERATOR, SOFTNER. GREAT NEIGHBORHOOD, OFF AN· GELA BLVD. IDEAL FOR 3 STUDENTS CALL 232-3616 
6 BDRM, 2 BATH WSHOWERS. ON BUS LINE TO NO. FURNISHED, GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD, $1300TUDENT & UTILITIES. 233·9947 OR 287·3530 . 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD NEXT YEAR 298·09551,!55­3684 
EFFICIENCY APT. UTILITIES PAID 288­0955 
................................................................ 
WANTED 

WANTED Macintosh serial HARD DRIVE for Mac 512e with no SCSI port. Call 239-5n2 and leave a message lor Matt. 
Need Ride to I.U. any weekend Will share expenses. Good Conversa­tionalist Call 1108 evenings. 
MANAGER WANTED FOR TEENAGE DISCO IN NILES. IF INTERESTED CALL COLLEEN, 800-843-3948. 
;;;;:t."E:rii:.\N.sFefi·s:ruo.Emi:ooi<i;:;C3 
FOR CHEAP SUB-LET FOR SUMMER MONTHS CALL X3484. 
OVERSEAS JOBS..Summer, yr.round. Europe,S.Amer.,Australla,Aala. All fields. $900-2000 mo. Slghtsee­lng.Free Info. Write IJC,PO Bx 52· IN04,Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
TRANSLATORS NEEDED ALL LAN­GUAGES SEND RESUME & SAMPLES PO BOX11385 SO BEND IN 46634 
FOR SALE 
Martin M-36 acoustic guitar $n5 232· 6528 
................................................................ 
Hohner 5-string bluegrass banjo-­prfessional quality $375 232-6528 
Yamaha PA, slave amp, mini-monitors $1500 for system 232-6528 
T ascam 4-track Portastudio Great lor bands, demos. $850 232-6528 
'81 Ford Escort 2-Door, 4 speed, stereo cassette. $1995 or best offer call £1999, Pat 
COMPUTER FOR SALE Mac 512K with 400K external disk drive call 239-7599 between 9-5 
for sale: ROSSIGNOL STS SKIS 180 em 'IV M40 BINDINGS. EXCELLENT SHAPE. MAKE OFFER. x6013 or 272­8813. 
TICKETS 
UCLA I need two GAs for the UCLA basketball game. Call JR at 283-1538 . 
WANTED: TWO G.A.s FOR UCLA GAME PLEASE CALL AMY £2945 
j;jEe·o······:rwc;·······uci.A·······C3;···..·;:·,-x 
DESPERATELY. CALL DAN X3261. 
ucl.A···:nci<£Ts···wi\Nreo;···2···;~~~; 
arena student or GA tickets. We can negotiate lor large sums ol CASH. Call Mike at x3698 
;:;~;;d~·;j:·:r:;;~·i3·i\:~·;~;·-v~~;j~;;;;;i·9~;;;~ 
Call Pete at x1 033. 
;:;~;;d·4·v~;;d~;;;;,i··;;~··:~~;;·;;;i·k~··;·699··· 
·w~~~~;;:··:r;;;~~··u·c:t:;:·;;;;;;;;~··;i·~··(;;;;;~r 
GA's or stud.) Will pay good $ please call Paul at 233·9660. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. JMB 
VIDA Post-graduae volunteer program. Placements in southwestern Colorado and northern New Mexico. Needs: nurses, teachers, social workers, parish workers, youth ministers VIDA represen­tatives will be in the Library Concourse at Notre Dame and the Lobby at St. Mary's today. Also available at the Center for Social Concerns. LIFE 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that spe­cial guy the best gift of all -lyouraetf -In a Glamour Portrait by Joe Ringer. Call for details and free brochure. 287­0613. 
HEY YOU PIECE OF MEAT! Yes you Seidel, Happy Birthday! 13 years strong. 
':.~?.~.~.!?.~.! ......................................... 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORNINGS 914-3814224 
trS NOT TOO EARLY TO PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS . AVOID THE RUSH AND COME IN ANY DAY FROM NOW UNTIL THURSDAY, FEB. 11. 
EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK! JPW needs student workers. Call 239· 7814 for more info! 
I wish I were in Dixie, hurrah, hurrah And lam 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE FOR WKEND 2'12-14 GREG £1562 
VALENTINE'S DAY BOXER-GRAMS !IIIII Have Valentine Boxer-Grams delivered to your friends, roommates or sweethearts. Buy in SOH 219 & 2'1 0 or call Chris X2521 
Thank You, St. Jude!! Thank You, St. Jude!I 
................................................................ "LEARN TO WRITE AN EFFECTIVE RESUME" Presentation by Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career & Placement Services. 
4:00 p.m. today, Hesburgh Library 
Lounge. Repeated Thursday, same time and location. 
Catch The Wave: Coke 
"LEARN TO WRITE AN EFFECTIVE RESUME" Presentation by Marilyn Bury, assistant director ol Career & Placement Services. 
4:00 p.m. today, Hesburgh Library Lounge. Repeated Thursday same time and location. 
LUKE is 21: May he be Wide, Wasted, Belligerent, Bombed, and Purple. World wideness awaits you! 
................................:l?~.n.kX..'~.~..?.~~~ u LeMans Homotopic Theory •• 5enlor Comp. F(Kathryn,l): I 
28.01.98, 

Beautifull Sincerely,Y MX-B 
Business & Society In Japan Optional Credi\'Financlal Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. Saattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 
Buslneas & Society In Japan Optional Credi\'Financlal Aid International Internship Programs 406 Colman Bldg., 811 1st Ave. Saattle, WA 98104 (206) 623-5539 
ATTENTION ALL HISTORY AND AMST 
MAJORS Volunteers needed to guide tours and give slide show presentations for South· hold Restoration in South Bend. Learn exciting facts about the citylll Must be dependable and have own transporta­tion. For more info contact Leslie Choitz. Exec director 234-3441. 
HOLY ST. JUDE: Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue, rich in miracles, Kinsman in Christ, intercessor of all who invoke your aid in time of need. I pray to you to use your God given power to aid in my urgent petition. In return I promise to publish your Novena and to make your name known. Three Hail Marys and three Glorias. Say for nine days. Publication must be promised. Novena never fails. Thank you ST. JUDE. JP 
................................................................ 
SL & LS Are you guys dead? 

To Bill "DOW JONES" Fitxpatrick of Alumni, the man who pulled out just in time though no one noticed and the very same man who wants to move to the lrar>traq border and start a taste great· less filling war. "No pain, No pain!" No girl? A tall, Fitz tan 
Rememeber ... Ballroom Dance Tonight! Stepan Center inter. 7:00 begin. 8:00 Come Swing With Us! 
Lenore Reznick The Sleepless Six? Are you that hard up that you have to include your roommates? Is Pat treating you that poorly? 
The Steve Miller Fan Club announces open auditions for the 1st annual 
Date With Steve Contest All inquiries should be directed to Joe McKenna, Sorin Hall. 
SUZY ROY,THE PAST TWO YEARS HAVE SEEMED LIKE A LIFETIME, YET IT FEELS AS THOUGH WE JUST MET YESTERDAY.MY LOVE FOR YOU IS STRONGER NOW THAN EVER BEFORE.I KNOW WE HAVE WHAT IT TAKES TO GO THE DISTANCE. ALL MY LOVE, NOW AND FOREVER, 
THE MAN 

....................................................... 
Only 4 Days 
BILL WEBB DAY 
February 12, 1998 
How do we celebrate Bill Webb Day? 
In our country, Bill Webb Day begins with the traditional Bill Webb Day break­last. At 7:00 am, roommates, sections, even entire dorms and quads sit down together lor a sumptuous feast that in­cludes buttermilk biscuits, hash brown potatoes, whole wheat hot cakes with maple syrup, scrambled eggs, steak, and freshly squeezed orange juice. 
Alter this meal. people go their sepa­rate ways for morning classes, lunch, and afternoon classes. But they !eel different. Their attitude is posrtive. They hum songs under their breath. They enjoy life. 
At 6:00 pm, the people meet again, this time for the special Bill Webb Day dinner. The original Bill Webb Day stew is served from oaken barrels into each person's Bill Webb Day dinner bowl. The stew's secret recipe is known only to a small sect of women from· outside ol Co­lumbus, Ohio, and they are responsible lor the stew's preparation and distribu­tion. If you are not able to make it to one of special Bill Webb Day dinner sites, you are encouraged to make your favorite meal and eat nwith good friends. 
Alter dinner, the crowd (which often swells into the thousands) sings the fes­tive Bill Webb Day songs ol hea~h. fer­tility, and good cheer. The music fills the night air and the dancing is often a vision of beauty. As the hour of 11 :00 pm ap­proaches, the excitement builds. At that precise moment, one individual, usually the wisest or the tallest ol the group, silences the throng and leads the group in the recitation of the Bill Webb Day inspirational message: 
Know thyself. Know thy neighbor. Appreciate the good things In life. Keap calm In times of trouble. Strive for excellence in all you do. And each night before you sleep, give thanks for life and love. 
At the conclusion of this moving cere­mony, the crowd disperses but they carry away with them a leeling of contentment. They share a common bond. They have a better insight into their own world. The message of Bill Webb Day is a message ol peace and understanding. 
Do you know Mark Taylor? Do you know how to sing? Are you free today at 3:00? If the answer to any of the above ques­tions is "yes," please come to his con­ducting class today. He needs singers!! 1st floor Crowley, 3:00 today. 
·Three Lonely Sopranoes 
Quack. Ouch. Quack. Ouch. Quack, quack. Ouch. 

---~~---~-~ -~ 
--~------~~~~-­
Monday, February 8, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Soccer team falls in finale ... 

Let your sweetheart love expressed through Valentine classifieds or msn1a 
Classifledswill be accepted from 1Oam to 3pm every_weekday. The Observer is located in room 314 LaFortune or call239-7471 for further information. 
VALENTINE'S DAY 
BOXER-GRAMS! Perfect for sweethearts, roommates, friends 

VALENTINE BALLOON BOUQUETS FROM • 
$5.00 COSTUME DELIVERY AVAILABLE FRIDAY & SUNDAY OPEN 1-4 for Cash & Carry Bouquets CALL 259-4807 to reserve NOW!!!!! BURNS PARTY & BANQUET SHOPPE 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka, Ind. 46545 
Don'tmake uour'"" "'"' v..rcotioe\ D'Y roll'
J · ,•n a S1mdat1 ""{ l So 11< 1mport<mt that
I • • 

va enttne waltyouordcrllower~e.arly ~ . ' •t s d You II hdve a better ( hance of
'(I'. 


Noth1ng helps love blllssom more than flowers And we have a·beaut1ful -,election ot tresh flowers and Flowers-in-a-Gilt So -,tup 1n or call today 
· tl un a\J !!Citing l'XdCtly Whdt you J likt 
]• to g1vc And your swcethedrt wont h.Jvc to wa1t all weekend 
We can deliver your message of love anywhere 1n 
lWn or send it anywhere 1n the United States and Canada 
Yt1lentine's Week hegins February 8. 
Amember of

LINDA'S FLOWER MARKET 
Buyer's Market Plan· • 'ilJO I Non h ()rape RoaJ M1.<hawaka, lnJiana 46'i4'i 
3 
'R.'Ililma"
Ph 272-0402 

By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
The Irish soccer team has never been one to worry when it falls behind by a goal or two. 
But it sure would make things easier if the Irish took the lead from the start. 
The team fell behind in two of its four matches this weekend at an indoor tourna­ment hosted by Northwestern. While the Irish rebounded to defeat Wisconsin 2-1 in the first match, they fell short in a 2-1 shootout loss to the host school in the championship round of the 16-team tournament. 
"We've always had a great attitude when we're down a goal," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "But why do we have to put ourselves in a po­sition where we have to come back?" 
Playing without senior starter Steve Lowney and soph­omore keeper Danny Lyons, Notre Dame advanced to the championship round after defeating Wisconsin, Wheaton (5-1), and Loyola (1-0). 
In the first game of the cham­pionship round the Wildcats jumped to an early 1-0 lead before Irish midfielder Rolfe Behrje tallied to send the game into overtime. Northwestern won the shootout to knock Notre Dame out of the tourna­ment. 
Grace used a 16-man underclassmen-only roster for the tournament. Almost all the field players were regulars from the fall season, but the two keepers had a combined two games of fall experience. Junior Kevin Mayo and fresh­man Mike Sattan both played, with Mayo seeing most of the action in the nets. 
"Kevin did exceptional for the situation," said Grace. "He just has to get more consis­tency." 
The spring season continues this coming weekend with the St. Louis Budweiser Indoor In­vitational. Former NCAA Divi­sion I champion Southern Illinois-Edwardsville and junior college power Florissant Valley are the two featured teams in Notre Dame's bracket. Also playing in this 16­team tourney is Indiana, Evansville and Saint Louis. • 
King gives royal performance 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
DURHAM, N.C. -The man who led the Blue Devils Sunday afternoon wasn't a Duke. He was a King, Billy King-Duke's defensive wizard. 
King's defensive efforts against Notre Dame's David Rivers was one of the main reasons that the fourth-ranked Blue Devils downed the Irish 70-61 at Cameron Indoor Stadium. King hampered Rivers into 3-of-17 shooting, holding Rivers to a season-low nine points. ·with only Joe Fredrick able to score consis­tently, that led to a third­straight Irish defeat. 
"Billy was magnificent," Duke head Coack Mike Krzyzewski said afterward. "When you think of all the in­dividual accomplishments, the visitor and home, that have happened at Cameron, more people will remember offen­sive accomplishments. I think when people still talk about Cameron they're going to re­member Billy's play today." 
It had been a tough week for King and his teammates, as they played four games in six days. Saturday, King had fouled out while covering N.C State's Vinny Del Negro. Del Negro scored 12 points, includ­ing the Wolfpack's last eight, as N.C. State upset Duke 77-74. 
Against Rivers, King com­mitted 1ust two personals and 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position:  
News Editor (2)  Ad Design Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  Ad Manager  
Sports Editor  Production Manager  
Accent Editor  Projects Manager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Systems Manager  
Photo Editor  Controller  
Graphic Arts Manager  

Applications should include a two page personal statement and a brief resume. 
The deadline for applications is Tuesday, February 9. 
For further Information contact 
Chris Murphy at The Observer (239-5303) 

SENIORS: 
Be a missioner for one year, teaching English in Kyoto, Japan 
lA·rltL'II(>I_ •­
S!JtJ.ll-~. 
1~.1111 ''ll.... 

Find out more from Father McDonnell Wed., Feb. 10 & Thurs., Feb. 11 9-4 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Contact Mary Ann Roemer 289-7949 

drew an equal number of charges, the 13th and 14th that he's drawn this season. 
"I thought his concentration was unbelievable," Krzyzewski said of King's play, "especially when you're tired and playing one of the top players in the United States. If you don't have mental strength, you're going to put him (Rivers) on the line. He only shot four free throws. If you look at their stats, he shoots 14 or 15 some games." 
"I thought I committed stupid fouls," King said. "Today I committed two but I was in a better flow of the 
-
game. Usually when I don't commit fouls early, I play more aggressively." 
King's size, he's 6-6 against a 6-0 Rivers had a lot to do with Rivers' poor shooting. But what also contributed to that was that when Rivers was able to beat King, other Blue Devils slid over to help out. 
"The middle was open, and 
. I got past King several times," Rivers said. "There were guys coming over to help. They really rotate to pick up the open man. "It's not so much his size. He played good defense, and had a lot of help when I got by him." Irish head coach Digger Phelps said that not attacking Duke at its weaknesses cost the Irish the game. "To beat Duke, you need to attack the baseline," Phelps said. "You need sideline penetration, force them to give weak side help, then attack from there. For some reason, we just didn't do that. "David went down middle. He challenged King there, King wins, David goes 0-for-life. We just didn't do the things we should have -penetrate, read, adjust and kick it out." King, who averages just 4.8 points per game, pumped in a season-high 11 points Sunday, and that just added to his feeling for the game. "Even if he had scored 25, and we had won, I would have been satisfied," said King, who had three steals. "The fact that we won and he got nine points is like a dream to me. That I scored 11 makes the dream even better." Rivers, though, had a more down-to-earth view of the after­noon's events. "I've played against guys who were equally as good if not better," Rivers said. "King's one of the best defensive players. Things just didn't go my way, and that's all there is to it." 
~---~ 
~~----­
Monday, February 8, 1988 

Milers overshadow Irish performances 

The Notre Dame track team performed very well 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
A sub-four minute mile race overshadowed what was also a very impressive showing by the Notre Dame track and field team at its inaugural Meyo In­vitational Saturday. 
The Irish captured three firsts and two very impressive efforts amid an impressive group of athletes who were looking to qualify for the NCAA championships on the Meyo track. 
But the big story was Arizona's John Quade, who won the Meyo mile with a time of 
3:57.3. After sitting in the back of the pack the first three laps, Quade passed Notre Dame graduate Chuck Aragon and Darrel Frerker on the last turn to break the tape first. 
"I really haven't had any track workouts," said a surprised Quade. "My previ­ous best was 4:03. Everyone in the race was a quality runner. I thought if I kept up with the field I would do all right." 
Mike O'Connor, Notre Dame's entry in the Me)'O mile, used the opportunity to run a personal-best time of 4:04.5. 

Upset 
continued from page 16
-
practice," Gavin said. "I wasn't that nervous. I think I hit the ones when it counted." 
As a team, the Irish hit 29-of­39 attempts from the line (74 percent) in the game. 
Notre Dame also benefitted from Duke's poor shooting. The Irish packed in a 2-3 zone throughout the game. The gamble paid off, as Duke shot just 30 percent from the field (24-of-79) for the game. 
All-America forward Chris Moreland led the Blue Devils with 17, while Paula Andersen had 13 and Leigh Morgan added 12. 
Although he scratched on his 
best toss, Notre Dame's Tom 
Kraus continued his domina­
tion in the shot put, winning the 
event with a toss of 16.44 
meters (54 feet). 

Despite racing against five 
hurdlers with better personal­
best times, Notre Dame's 
Glenn Watson won the 55-meter 
hurdles with in 7.3 seconds. 

David Warth continued his excellent running in the 800, "finishing second with a time of 
1:50.4. Matt Ronzone and Mike Rogan finished 1-2 for the Irish in the 1000-meter run, and John 
In the Meyo Invitational, which also featured a at left.


DON'T FORGET TO ORDER VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS! 

1/2 dozen long-stem roses $16 1 dozen long-stem roses $32 AVOID THE RUSH, ORDER EARLVI Valentine deliveries will go out Saturday night. Hours: Monday -Saturday 12:30 -5:30 

or more years of 

4. A-person with_f~an ex-pect a median college educatlof $32 270/year. 
mcome today o , 
/frJf,~~~~ ~~~ 
#!-tr::J/'£
~;5ro~ ~f~!f?1 
al . considered one of

Mutu lS · 
5. Northwestern anies to work for m 
the ten best comll America. 
\1Zuf~~rl~ 
\ ~~~w 
-====== 
~ 

!BUB or FALSE? 
Get the rest of the answers-
Attend a presentation by representatives of the Beckley Agency on Careers with Northwestern Mutual Life: 
-Thursday, February 25 -7:00p.m. -The Morris Inn-The Alumni Room 
Or, see your placement office for information on interviews to be held Friday, February 26. 
Mua~~ 
The Quiet Company® 
-ND 


----------------------~~---~~~----­
Monday, February 8, 1988 
The Observer page 13 
Men fencers win again, women fall to Wayne St. 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
Irish fencing head coach Mike DeCicco felt that this weekend's dual meets would serve as a benchmark for the Irish fencing teams. Unfortun­ately, the outcomes produced some mixed results. 
The mens' teams cruised to easy victories over Wayne State (18-9), Ohio State (24-3), Nortwestern (20-7), Chicago (21-6), Michigan (24-3), Oakland-MI (23-4), and Case­Western Reserve (21-6). In the process they improved their undaunted record of victories this year to 22-0. 
However, the women's teams did not fare quite as well. While they completed the two-day Midwest Circuit meet with an overall4-1 record, their one loss came against Wayne St., the second time in as many weeks. 
The women came out of the starting blocks in excellent form, compiling an initial 4-1 edge over their Midwest rivals 
CENTRAL 
from Wayne St. Thi& was quickly turned around, however, when they dropped nine straight matches before yielding by a fina~tally of 11-5. The women then polished off OSU (11-5), Northwestern (10­6), Oakland (14-2), and Case­Western Reserve (14-2) en route to a seasonal mark of 17­2. 
One special highlight for the women's team was the perfor­mance of senior captain Molly Sullivan. After a disappointing 2-2 record against Wayne St. last week, Sullivan redeemed herself by posting an impres­sive 3-1 mark against that same school this weekend. In the process, Sullivan became the women's all-time victories leader at 160-14, surpassing last year's captain Cindy Weeks. 
Other top showings came from Anne Barreda (7-3), Lynn Kadri (5-3), and Kristin Kralicek (4-4). Completing the scoring for the Irish women was Brenda Leiser (2-4), M.J. Sully (1-3), Stephanie McNeill (7-1), Margaret Connor (5-4), Elizabeth Varga (7-2), and Kim Sollinger (7-1) . In achieving a 32-7 season record, Lynn Kadri garnered her first monogram in her initial year at Notre Dame. 
Once again the mens' teams overpowered the competition and extended their win streak even further. Team captain Yehuda Kovacs (10-2), sop­homores Joel Clark (6-1) and 
·Colin Gumbs (7-1), and Derek Holeman (9-1) set the pace for an easy victory in the foil com­petition. In addition, foilists Phil Leary (9-0), Gary Galeziewski (5-0), Fred Trayers (6-0), and Kent Kroener (3-3) all gained their first monograms. In the sabre competition, captain Tim Collins (6-1), soph­omore Danny Yu (6-2), and Steve Rawlings ( 4-1) all ended the two-day event with impres­sive finishes. Also in sabre, Lesek Nowosielski (7-0), Jim Reilly (5-0), ChrisBauger (5-0) and Dave Kirby (3-0) went un­defeated. These four sabremen, along with Elie Ker-
INTELLIGENCE AGE,NCY 
Vital Careers with a Vital Institution 
Nowhere is more information about world events collected, analyzed, and managed by more capable people than at CIA. Nowhere else will you find an opportunity to become part of such a dynamic and exceptional team working for our nation's security. 
CIA currently has positions for extra­ordinary individuals interested in a wide range of careers, offering a great diver­sity of opportunity-opportunities.in science and technology, management and administration, high level analysis of information. and the special demands of overseas operations. 
( )pportunities as Diverse As Yom Talents 

The intelligence process is a complex cycle, moving from the collection of information to the presentation of informed analyses to our nation's highest policymakers. Each of CIA's four director­ates offers a diversity of challenges: 
Directorate of Science and Technology (DS&T) 

Developing and integrating new tech­nologies, from electro-optics to satellite communications. Collecting and process­ing information from around the world. Using the most advanced equipment and concepts to provide technical services for national security. 
Directorate of Operations (DO) 
The Clandestine Service, the vital human element of intelligence collection. Working overseas. recruiting and main­taining intelligence networks and report­ing what they find. Courageous individu­als with high integrity utilizing their specialized tradecraft to help protect American interests worldwide. 
Directorate of Intelligence (DI) 
Intelligence Officers analyzing and dis­seminating vital information from both open and clandestine sources. Focusing their specialized knowledge and expe­rience about political, economic, scien­tific, and military affairs in reports to the nation's top policymakers about fast­breaking world events and long-term trends. 
Directorate of Administration (DA) 

Supporting all the other directorates with vital and innovative services in personnel and financial management, communications, computer technology, medicine, security, logistics, and training. Bringing new challenges to career disci­plines that may be found elsewhere-but are not the same anywhere else. 
The Professional Profile 
Special people with a special mission. That describes the men and women entering the CIA's Career Training Pro­gram. Applicants must be US citizens with a bachelor's degree or an advanced degree with a strong GPA. A second lan­guage, or an ability to learn, is required for some positions. Related experience and military service are pluses. Many applicants must be willing to accept for­eign assignments. 
Applicants must also measure up to a stringent personal profile requiring honesty and a highly developed sense of personal ethics: superior intellectual and analytical ability, combined with first-rate communications skills; an unquestionable loyalty and desire to serve our country. 
All applicants must successfully com­plete a thorough medical and psychiatric exam, a polygraph interview, and an extensive background investigation. 
Special Rewards for Special Individuals 

If you have the drive, skills, desire, and integrity, you will be given every oppor­tunity to succeed and excel. In addition to the excellent benefits of a federal government career, you will enjoy the special rewards of making a positive dif­ference in the world -rewards you won't find anywhere else. 
Take the first step by sending your resume along with a thoughtful letter. Include day and evening telephone numbers. We will respond to WRITIEN inquiries only, within 30 days to those judged to be of further interest. CIA is an equal opportunity employer and encour­ages applications from US citizens of all races, creeds, and ethnic backgrounds. 
Send resumes and letters to: 
Personnel Representative P.O. Box 3009 Cincinnati, OH 45201 


rigan (4-2), received their first Mark Gugel (6-3) and Matt monograms. The rest of the Mergen (5-3) both earned their scoring in sabre was by Jose first monograms. Amaro (5-2), Norris Harding Next week the Irish will send (2-4), and Bill Pietrusiak (2-3). eight fencers to Cleveland, OH 
The epee squad had a partic­to compete in the Junior Olym­ularly excellent showing in pics. The travel squad will con­dominating all opponents this sist of sabremen Danny Yu, weekend. The top three Irish of Dave Kirby, and Chris Bauger, Doug Dudinski (9-2), Ted Fay foilists Joel Clark, Fred (10-0) and Todd Griffee (9-2) Trayers, Colin Gumbs, and had a composite 28-4 record. Phil Leary and Ted Fay in the r.hris Reardon wpnt. 5-:l while epee division. 
Jordan dunks West 
Associated Press lain in 1962. "It was my first opportunity 
CHICAGO -Michael Jordan to win the MVP," said Jordan, was the king of All-Star who scored a total of 18 points Weekend, reigning supreme on in his two previous All-Star ap­his own court. pearances. 'It's something to 
Jordan followed up his NBA remember and it goes along slam-dunk title with a 40-point, with everything else. But my Most Valuable Player perfor­ultimate goal is winning a mance in Sunday's All-Star world championship." , game, leading the East to a 138-Dominique Wilkins, Jordan's 133 victory over the West. slam-dunk rival in Saturday's 
competition that went down to 
"The whole weekend was Jordan's final dunk, was over­fun," Jordan said. "I felt I was shadowed again as he scored home. It really felt good." 29 for the East, which now 
Jordan, who routinely treats leads the series 25-13. his hometown fans to spectac­The East built a 15-point lead ular feats as a member of the in the fourth quarter, and the Chicago Bulls, did it again in West got ~o closer than the front of a sellout crowd of 18,403 final score the rest of the way watching the NBA's best as Jordan, troubled by foul players. He was 17-for-23 from trouble in the second half, 
-the floor and his 40 points was scored 16 points in the final two shv of the all-time All-Star 5:50. 
rRE-WARD-$8,0oo 
I
i Operate your own Paint America I house painting business this summer I in your neighborhood in the 1 Chicago area. Earn $8,0001 during the summer. Training1 provided. For more info. call 1 Paint America at (312) 622-0021. 
L__ ~~~~~=-~~e:~~a:e ~~ ~n_c:m:u~. 
1fe/::r You'll see 
pV the savings! 
• 

SOFT CONTACT LENSES 


•Softmate Daily or 
Extended Wear 
Contact Lenses 
$39.98 
Dally Wear Powers +7.00 to -12.00 
Extended Wear Powers plano 1o -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted 
Contact Lenses 
Daily or 
E.x:tendedWear 
2 Pairs for 
-
$99.98 
2 Different Colora 
An eye exam is required at the time of 
purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not 
be combined with any other offers or discounts. 
Umiteo time offer. 
111111111111111'"1111"' ~c~ ''111111111111 
"Our eyewear prices are the lowest in fndiana, and -.A..~EL 
our eyecare quality Is illlfllllllllllllllllloo.f.'RI . ' . . ' . ·\ L......,llllllllllillllilll WISWJXl.SsecL And that's a 
promise from the doctor. • MPN*#I 
Soalll lnd Mishawaka
"~ 
1111 1: lrtlaa4 •• 1M W. McKI•I•J lro.Uow ,._ 1.-Mart/Manin CtRlor 
ICI'llllt....~aw n.~.-.IOCirlooDNa 
291-4000 258·5000 

The Observer Monday, February 8, 1988
page 14 


The Observer I Pat Kusek The Notre Dame hockey team continued to roll as the Irish took a pair of tight games from Air Force. Pete Sklko details the thrillers 
beginning on the back page. 
Sweep 
continued from page 16 
we made too many mistakes in our own end. You don't see Lance (Madson) make that mistake too often (regarding the first goal). He's kept us in a lot of games -he's entitled to a couple of those. 

"I'm pleased that we went out and did what we had to do -work really hard. It's great to get the win, but we can't be lazy early." 
Schafer's squad played an­other tight first period on Sat­urday night, but couldn't find the net as the period ended with the teams deadlocked at zero. The Irish had a man advantage for the first two minutes of the second period, but it looked like the Falcons were on the power play. Notre Dame could not clear their zone to attack and Air Force picked up two shor­thanded goals to take the wind out of the Irish sails. 
But five minutes later, Bob Bilton scored to put the Irish 

:-~ 
on the board, and the second period ended with Air Force leading 2-1. 

Early in the third, a McNeill slap shot deflected off defen­seman Pat Foley's skate and into the net to tie the score at two. Once again, it looked like the Irish had stemmed the tide and were ready to ride their momentum to a win. 
But again, the Falcons an­swered the challenge, scoring to retake the lead. And again, Foley came back with a goal, this time a blistering shot from the point. The game stayed tied at three until 2:08 remained in 
-
the contest. Sophomore Tim Kuehl settled the issue as Han­zel slid Kuehl the puck across the goal crease and Kuehl ham­mered it past Moes. Typically, Schafer had mixed emotions regarding the win. "I'll look at the tape, but I still don't know how we won this game," said Schafer. "A lot of credit has to go to Lance Madson for keeping us in a po­sition where we could come back and win it, and Bob Her­ber played a very good, consis­tent game. But I was really dis­appointed with how badly 
outplayed we were in the first two periods. Our passing wasn't too sharp, and for a while there it looked like we were ready to just roll over and be beaten. But heck, we just keep coming back, don't we. I give the guys a lot of credit." 
The sweep this weekend runs the Irish winning streak to 12 games and takes their record to 21-2-2. Next weekend, Notre Dame plays at home against Villanova. 
ND netters remain unbeaten, dominate visiting Toledo 
By BOB MITCHELL Bayliss reffering to Kalbas' in­Sports Writer sistence that he could play. "Brian is ~ very inteligent 
The Eck Tennis Pavillion and competitive player. People protected the University of tend to overlook him because Toledo's men's tennis team he does not possess an over­from the bitter cold but could whelming presence and they not shield them from the wrath shouldn't," said Bayliss. of Notre Dame's tennis team. The Irish dominated the com-In other singles play, petition from start to finish in • number-two seeded Mike Wal­
posting a 9-0 victory, improv­ing their all-time record against Toledo to 15-1. 
Prior to the competition, Notre Dame's record was 3-0 including decisive victories over W~stern Michigan and Nortern Illinois. This is in sharp contrast to last year's early season woes when the Irish dropped two out of their first three competitions. First year coach Bob Bayliss ad­mitted that he was concerned that his team might suffer from the same fate. 
Bayliss said he believed that if his team is to be successful then his players must display consistency. Consistency is just what Bayliss got. 
In the number one position, junior Brian Kalbas, found himself in a heated contest with Toledo's Todd Dominiak. Kalbas won the first set 6-0 and dropped the second set 5-7, forcing a third set. The third set went into a tiebreaker with Kalbas emerging the victo:r 7-5. Furthermore, Kalbas is suffer­ing from a groin pull which oc­curried earlier in the season. 
"Brian showed a lot more guts than judgement,'' said 
One 
or 
100,000 
Get your copies fast at Kinko's 
kinko•s® 
Great copies. creat people. 
18187 State Road 23 South Bend, Indiana 46637 Telephone 219 271-Q398 


The College Seminary of 
The Archdiocese of Chicago 
For more information 
If priesthood contact were an easy 
Father Greg Sakowicz 
decision and 

7135 N. Harlem
commitment, 

Chicago, IL 60631 
you would not (312L631-1017need us. 
lace who suffered a sprained ankle during the match, defeated the Rocket's Brian Draxl6-2, 5-7, 6-2. Wallace sus­tained the injury in the third set yet was determined to com­plete the match. 
Freshman Ryan Wenger, the number-three player, dis­missed Jerome Moenter 6-3, 6­
4. Wenger was down 3-0 in the second set and was forced to raise his level of play ta an­other height to defeat his op­ponent. Senior Dan Walsh easily defeated Craig Kobren 6-0, 6-2. Dave Reiter, whose overall record is 3-0, over­whelmed David Binder 6-4, 6-3. To complete a perfect record in singles play for Notre Dame, Paul Deggs conquered Paul Trent 6-4, 6-3. 
In doubles play, the team's number-one tandemn of Mike Wallace and David Reiter defeated Toledo's Dominiak and Braxl 6-4, 6-3. The Irish's number-two team, Sean O'Brien and -Arnel Gallanosa, handed Jerome Muento and Craig Kobren a 7-6, 6-2 loss. In the final match of the day, Paul Odland and David Kuhlman en­sured a perfect record for the Irish by defeating David Binder and Trent Paul 6-4, 6-2. 
Bayliss attributed his team's success to their overall depth and balance. 
"We have not been losing consistently at any one spot," said Bayliss. "If one player loses the other players pick up the slack and win." 
Baylis said he thinks that the combination of the young and older players has helped the team to achieve their present record. 
"The freshman give us en­thusiasm mixed with our expe­rience produces a good team chemistry," said Bayliss. 
Toledo's Coach Pat ~Birney, former pro of Irish team mem­bers Brian and Tim Kalbas, was impressed with the Fight­ing Irish. He said he thought their greatest asset was the strength thr_!Lughout the lineup. Birney comlhented on the ex­cellent facilties that Notre Dame enjoys. 
"The Eck Pavillion is a top­notch facility and Notre Dame is very lucky to have their own 


NEW RENDITIONS 
HAIR & TANNING SALO 
1621 South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-5007 

Formerly of Hair Crafters of St. Mary's 
I ....\. 10°/o off on I 1 ~~o~ I
1 ~~ foil highlighting 1
0

I V .. I .
with coupon 1
1 

~-------------------------1
President Reagan is coming to our house 
March 9. 

Why not go to his... 
March 12-19, 1988 Spring Break 
Study the implications of national poverty and the international arms race vis-a-vis Catholic social teaching. 
Meet with key legislators and other individuals and 
groups working for a more just world and society. 
Receive one credit hour in Theology (Graded "S" or "U") -preparatory reading and discussion sessions -evaluation and reflection paper -follow-up opportunities 
Expenses $11 0 for food and housing. Participants buy their own meals. etc. Lots of Free Time Apply by February 15: Center for Social Concerns Steve Newton, C.S.C. 
L 
239-7861 
WA ;;, 
Introducing Tammy Lupa to 



Monday, February 8, 1988 
The Observer page 15 

SPONSORED BY SUB 
~-I !lWE 8fAU11FUL \\-\'lM t::N 
()NE LOO<Y i):."VVL 

I 
Wednesday & Thursday 
Friday &
lHE 

1 
8 & 10 pm Saturday
\Y~~ 

lBl ....,.. ~·::.:..:~·:~::::~:':'~W ,
L_________________ l 
$2.00 admission 
Campus 
Monday 
7 p.m. -Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series, "Blade Runner", 1982, 118 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium 7:30p.m. -Art Department SlideLecture by Sigmund Abeles, draughtsman and painter, Madbury, New Hampshire, in connection with "The Max Drawings" on exhibition at the Isis Gallery. Room 200 Riley Hall of Art and Design 7:30p.m. -Hesburgh Program in Public Service lecture "So You Want to Work in the Public Sector? Romancing the Internship and the Great Beyond," by Steven G. Thomas, Assistant Commissioner, Department of Corrections, New York City. Library Lounge 9:15p.m. -Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series "Pan­dora's Box,"1928, 110 minutes. Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Monterey Muffin Melt Top Round of Beef, au jus Sweet and Sour Pork Fettucini Alfredo 
" (~I
{E.f: PICk DRINk 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
. 
Saint Mary's Baked Ham Hawaiian Lasagna Potato Pancakes with Sour Cream Deli Bar 
T~e Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Rules 5 Oriental staple 9 -Impasse 
(stymled) 13 Landed 14 Judging group 15 Timber wolf 16 Foch of film 17 Became 
accustomed 19 Roe or hart 20 Actual 21 Rugged ridge 22 Instruct 24 Wine word 26 "I -Camera" 28 Wearing 
footwear 30 Closet pests 34 Deml-­36 Friend of the 
poor 39 Tittle 40 Ed of TV 41 Emanation 42 Top man 44 Stingy one 45 "Good­
night -" 46 Concerning 48 Inquire 49 Burmese 
statesman 51 Leavening 
agent 53 Step 57 Skin opening 59 Utensils 62 Deviation 64 One 65 Large part of 
Earth 66 Untidy 67 Eat 68 Ollie's pal 69 Hallowed 
ladles: abbr. 70 Shoo! 
DOWN 1 Nation 2 "I cannot 
tell-" 3 Sampler of a kind 4 Gaze rudely 
© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rlgh1s Reserved 
5 Track animal 6 Peruvian 7 Cubicles 8 Actor Wallach 9 Winglike 
10 Kind of bag 11 Encourage 12 Swelling 14 Dry out 18 Ga. city 23 Peer Gynt's 
mother 25 Arab potentate 26 "Take -from 
me" 27 Polynesian 29 Reed of film 31 Siamese 32 Mass. river 33 Tender spots 35 Letter 
enclosure 
letters 37 Flag maker 38 Obscure 40 Yemen port 
Far Side 

43 Make used to 44 Extinct bird 47 Wee 50 Disturbed 52 Potatoes 53 Health resorts 54 Assay 55 Diva's forte 
02/08/88 
02108188 56 Lend! of tennis 
58 Seine feeder 60 Ms Turner 61 Let It 
stand 63 Boardinghouse units: abbr. 
Gary Larson 

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
VH•.!W'ItJOflY KNOW IWCJ I 511'1 IT'5 lltJa/T 
IT'5 BaN II R.N WEEKWl?, 
WH€Rt; a· etu. 7Hfi &CWNA 11M€ wt Off!CI/ILL.Y M&€1 
CANCJICJIITt CAr 15 ? tJ& A Of)!{ 5C/Wl¥1{, ·ff(e;&' &CTIIlJ(£ CIINPfCJIITC / 
/ 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 


Out there, ominously moving toward Its destiny, was a truck with Reuben's name on it. 
Sports
page 16 

Monday, February 8, 1988 
ND women upset 17th-ranked Duke 78-66 


By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
DURHAM, N.C. -You're playing the 17th-ranked team in the country, and you're two leading scorers and rebounders are sitting on the bench with foul trouble. Reserves who hadn't given you much in a loss to the number­four team just three nights ear~ lier are on the court in their place. 
It doesn't sound very promis­ing, right? 
Wrong. 

Notre Dame's women's bas­ketball team went through all that and upset 17th-ranked Duke 78-66 Saturday evening. The victory marks the first win over a Top 20 team for the Irish, who upped their record to 13-6, and stopped Duke's 21-game non-conference winning streak. 
Sara Liebscher, who got her first start for Notre Dame, and Lisa Kuhns, who Liebscher replaced in the starting lineup because of Kuhns' injured knee, led the Irish with 19 points each. 
"I never though that with Heidi (Bunek, who entered the 
Bench scoring, free throws key win 
game averaging 18.9 points per game, and 8.8 rebounds) and Sandy (Botham 15.5 and 8.2) in foul trouble in the first half and fouling out in the second, that we'd be up seven at the half and win by 12.'' said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "The 
1bench just played great. 

"It was a big win for our pro­
gram. It ranks way up there 
because it was such team ef­
fort." 

Botham and Bunek were both 
on the bench by the 15-minute 
mark of the first half, Botham 
with two personals, and Bunek 
with three. The Irish were 
leading 10-7, but with their top 
scorers out, it looked like that 
lead wouldn't last. It didn't. 
The Blue Devils went up 12­
10, before Kuhns hit a three­
point shot from the top of the 
key. The teams traded a pair 
of baskets before Kuhns hit an­
other trey from the right wing 
to put the Irish up for good at 
20-19. 

Kuhns would hit another 
three-pointer in the half. That 
and Liebscher's shooting kept 
the Irish ahead. Liebscher shot 
five-for-five from the floor and 
two-for-two in the half, and the Irish led 39-32 at the end of the period. 
"I've been feeling more con­fident lately," Liebscher said of her first start. "I was glad to get the chance." 
If the first half was nerve­racking, the second half was enought to cause Valium addic­tion. The Irish didn't score from the field for the last six­and-a half minutes. Botham waved good-bye at the 4:15 mark, and Bunek followed 1: 30 later. 
But the Irish scored their last 21 points from the foul line as the Blue Devils turned up the heat. 
"I told them to take their time and don't panic," McGraw said of the final minutes. "We had three fresh­man on the floor for a while and Mary Gavin, whose our worst free-throw shooter. It was a little shakey for a while." 
Gavin, who entered the game shooting 50 percent from the stripe, sank six-of-nine at­tempts down the streth while bringing the ball up the court against the Duke pressure. 
"I've been hitting them in 
see UPSET, page 12 

Clutch scoring elusive again, Duke tops ND 70-61 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 

DURHAM, N.C. -Notre Dame's 70-61 loss to fourth­ranked Duke Sunday bore a striking resemblance to the games of the last week. The Irish were unable to score at the end of the game, got scoring from only one player, and, like their previous two games, came out on the losing end. Notre Dame's record now stands at 12-7. 
But the big difference in Sun­day's game was that instead of David Rivers carrying the scoring load, it was sophomore Joe Fredrick who came up with the big scores, finishing with a game-and career-high 23 points. Rivers, hindered by Duke's Billy King, shot just 3­of-17 from the field and finished with nine points, ending a streak of 31 straight double­figure games. Gary Voce had 12, and that was just about it for the Irish scoring. 
"We've got to have (scoring) from everybody;'' Rivers said of Fredrick's performance. 
"We don't have enough people scoring. When I have a prob­lem, someone else has to step forward." 
The Blue Devils, after some early sluggishness, which may have something to do with playing their second game in as many days and fourth in six, got scoring form everyone, es­pecially from Danny Ferry in the stretch when they were milking the clock. 
Ferry finished with 16 to lead Duke, while Kevin Strickland had 14, Robert Brickey had 13, and King had 11. 
The Irish started off well, opening a 30-22 lead with 3:39 left in the first half. But the 
see LOSS, page 10 

Irish shoot down Air Force
.._ . 
with thrilling comebacks 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 

If you were among the 3,213 fans that packed the JACC for part or all of the Notre Dame hockey team's sweep of Air Force this weekend, you didn't leave disappointed. 
Unless you're a Falcon fan. 

But even then, it would be hard not to appreciate the in­tense action generated by both teams during the series. The Irish won 5-4 on Friday night and took a 4-3 decision on Sat­urday, keeping long-shot hopes for an NCAA playoff berth alive. 
Neither win came easily for the Irish. On Friday, the Notre Dame faithful braced for a long evening when, 33 seconds into the game, Irish goaltender Lance Madson put a poorly­handled clearing attempt right onto the stick of the Falcons' John Manney. Manney flipped the puck into a wide-open net to give Air Force a 1-0 lead. 
Outside of that fluke goal, both teams played the first per­iod evenly. But early in the second, Air Force threatened to blow the game open, pound­ing in two goals to make the score 3-0. The Irish had plenty of opportunities throughout the middle period, but none were converted until Kevin Markovitz slapped in a pretty feed from captain Mike McNeill on the power play. That cut the Air Force lead to 3-1, and the Irish momentum mounted. 

With six and a half minutes left in the period, Bob Bilton tapped a centering pass right between the legs of Falcon goalie John Moes. Less than a minute later, Thomas Smith fired a shot past Moes' out­stretched glove to knot the score at three. The stage was set for a dramatic third period. 
Early in the final stanza, with Smith off the ice with 1:48 remammg in his minor penalty, Bob Herber fed Bob Bilton on a 2-on-1 breakaway, and Bilton blasted the puck off of Moes' pads as he dove to his left. The comeback complete, the Irish looked to run out the clock. 
But Air Force would not go down easily. Shortly after Bil-ton's goal, the Falcons, again on the power play, scored as John Delich rifled a shot that hit the bottom of the crossbar and dropped staight down on top of the goal line to tie the game at 4-4. 
Notre Dame's Matt Hanzel fi­nally finished the scoring with 
4:25 left in the game as he sneaked a shot past Moes from 20 feet out. Air Force had several chances to tie again (including a shot 10 seconds after the game-winning goal that struck the goalpost) but could not convert. 
Notre Dame Head Coach Ric Schafer, as he has done several times in the past, saw both good and bad aspects of Friday . night's win. 
"I have to give our guys all the credit in the world for com­ing back like they did," said Schafer, in his first year as mentor of the Irish. "But we have to start out better than we did. Granted, Air Force is a great team and they helped make us look bad. But early on, 
our passes weren't crisp and Joe Fredrick was one of the bright spots In Notre Dame's loss to fourth-ranked Duke Sunday. Dennis Corrigan recaps the game at see SWEEP, page 14 left. 



